

THOUGH the quantity of whisky you
require may vary, there need be
no sacrifice of quality .... for these four
convenient sizes of Dewar s cater for every
man who would enjoy this finest of Scotch
Whiskies.
f
g
nr
fP
mmmKSKKtKk
iiilßwwMMMi
■-
:
PEIDAt
'ERTfI
m
llfliil
111
■v;;/“ .;.;
mmmm
lillStr
■I - i
iHi
■
&*.Si
• V**\
l’
?,r |
; t
str !
!&ei>
' bur^' 1
-Rth
fes a
/ : ■
iitt§§
.. : l
PlNE'i
s i |
II
/aWI
DEWARS
Scotch Whisk/
Bottled only in Bond Under Government Supervision
The Bulletin
fg
Vol. 53.—N0. 2744.
Wednesday, September 14, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


r J"'HE 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE* to YOin
S E N D THIS COUPON - ■ '
Please send , without obligation, your New Pm
Booklet, explaining how to for Profit 6
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. “*
My Name
My Address
S,B. 232
icura
FOR
PERFECT
HEALING
*P
of Pimples , Eczemas ,
Rashes and All Forms of
Itching , Burning
Affections of the Skin
Bathe freely with
and hot water, dry
gently, and apply CiitSeiara
OamtssaeMt.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free. Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney. N. S. W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. fid.
nmsmioi
DIRECT MEDIUM TP WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
\Y -C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be. obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
J!). o >-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
"THE AGE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age ' for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in your A ictorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending- large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk,
“THE AGE”
has or er 119,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a rtewspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart Of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“I he Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Hates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office; 43 Hunter Street,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
If You Want Queensland Trade,
You Must Advertise in
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
This great Queensland daily, and its
companion journal, the “Sunday
Mail,’ 5 give a seeond-to-none
“cover” in the metropolitan area and
in country districts. Their popu- '
larity is explained by their brightness ’
and the all-round excellence of their ,
news features. The strong circulation '
position of both papers is revealed by
recently issued independently verified
audited certificates. Rate cards, etc.,
from
Robert Jackson,
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(’Phone: 81522.)
mCMUUMS
PERFECTION
SCOTS VtMJSKY
jl.
<*;v;
;\>V,
jf
:
ESTABLISHED 1 807.
this fine old Scots Whisky
has 120 years'reputation for
outstanding quality. It is skil-
fully blended for mellowness
and flavour and no better
whisky can be produced.
DU.M'CAILUMC?
EDINBURGH
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOIISTi' nr
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO f'Pii McCALLUM:
GIBBS RRTf’TTT r-n ai 1 -'i ■ , ’ ,t ' v dney. Melbourne and Brisbane.
BARTLAMS BTi.. '-* C »S S 3=* UUttft. «™.
The Red Page
Three (Jrmsual Books
These works, which differ widely an theme,
are for connoisseurs. They bear reading
many times for their charm of style, and
. their format makes them ornaments to any
bookshelf. The first was written nearly
three-quarters of a century ago in Sydney,
but its humor and construction, which is
that of the long short-story, so well done
by Somei'set Maugham, are strangely
modern. In the second an English stylist
writes as learnedly and delightfully about
gardening as Bernard Darwin does about
golf. He is likely to get as many guffaws
Irom low-brows on the subject of his horti-
cultural misfortunes as Mark Twain ever
did; yet he is essentially an essayist in the
classic tradition, and he is one of England’s
most eminent gardeners. No lover of
flowers should miss it. The third is an
interesting literary experiment: an attempt
to project a film-story on to the screen of
the mind; a poem in the form of a scenario.
Most readers of imagination will say it
is a success.
Sydney in the ’Fifties
Ernest H. Shea, of the Sunnybrook Press,
has republished Daniel Henry Deniehy’s
Ihe Attorney-General of New Barataria,
with four woodcuts by Lionel Lindsav and
a penetrating preface by W. B. Dailey. It
is printed by hand, exquisitely bound, and
limited to 100 copies signed by the printer,
engraver and prefacer. The genesis of the
story is said to have been a row between
peniehy and the barrister-politician whom
he pillories as Tiptop. The truth seems
o be that Demehy became a hopeless
drunkard and that the fastidious and busv
liptop got tired of lifting him out of
gutters, whatever the rights or wrongs of
it were Demehy set out to tell his friend
what he thought of him, and framed
his indictment on the lines he thought
would hurt most. An aristocratic English-
man tells some friends in the Middle
emple how Tiptop got him made
Attorney-General, and sums up Tiptop, his
political associates and the colonial society
. of the period in general. Whether Deniehy
was a poor hater or Tiptop was hard to
hate the fact remains that nothing very
wounding is said. The chief objections to
iptop, as disclosed by the somewhat super-
cilious narrator Lyttelton (he really existei .
and became Attorney-General in th
manner described), are that he was a b
of a snob and a humbug and that he had
misguided sense of humor. Tiptop was
M.C. at the time.
He had often a batch of dirtv-facec
.scampy-lookmg little native attorneys, wlios
family hearings you'd look for at Nevvgat
rather than the Heralds' College, hangin
nm ' 1 ffdop used to manage thes
minute rascals beautifully; with them h
was quite the Colonial article. Tipton wa
a capital mimic. Somehow it came to m
' a ! H W . h, -‘ «sed to amuse his low attorne
friends with some nice little photographs o ;
now I comported myself in court on th
occasion Quickington was impaling me 01
ns infernal points, as a wretched goat rnigh
b ‘ on a eheraux do frise.
“1 didn’t know the rationale of Tiptoi
hen, he concludes. “I afterwards founc
it was a way he had, to abuse behind thei
backs tor all kinds of abominations, by way
of waggery no doubt, people he was doing
his best to get appointments for ” The
portrait of Tiptop is full-length, and i
leaves him almost as likeable as if the
artist had never grown to dislike him The
other portraits are smaller, but equally
balanced and shrewd. Deniehy’s book, to
quote W. B Dailey, “is at once a picture
and a lecord of the men who founded Gov-
ernment in Australia. He observed them
wdh a trained eye and drew them with a
m! 1 ’ 6 W* We , see them moving about as
everybody saw them, and rigging things as
Deniehy saw them.” The identities of the
characters are revealed in a couple of pages
of succinct biographical notes at the end.
A Scholarly Gardener'
Jas ° ]l Hill mentions in the preface of his
Ihe Curious Gardener (Faber. 7s. 6d ) that
he uses -curious” in the “Oxford Dictionary”
sense of “studious,” “attentive,” etc. It
might be described as a gardening textbook
tor advanced amateurs. His chapter on
antique flowers, such as “Master Bradshaw
his Painted Lady,” described by Parkinson
ui 1620 in his Paradisus, and “Eckerslev’s
Jolly Dragoon” and “Bang Europe,” which
are still to be found in old Scottish and
Irish gardens, has no more than a specu-
lative interest for Australians. The same
applies to his re-
marks about elders
(“Judas bungled
his own tragedy
because, it is said,
he could find no
better tree on
which to hang himself than an elder”), and
moss roses of the type of Shakspeare’s “Pro-
vincial Rose.” ancestors of the cabbage
roses which have almost disappeared from
our gardens. But the instructions on the
making of new plants should be useful to
many; and nothing could be more fascinat-
ing than his discourse on “The Invisible
Garden,” namely “the garden [of fragrance!
within a garden not much less rich and
various than the other which appeals to
the eye.” He considers that the most
powerful and far-reaching of all garden
scents is given off by Humea elegans.
It resembles incense so closely that if
once caused a country vicar to be suspected
ot ritualistic practices; and one day, as I
was walking down Victoria-street, some
hours after handling a leaf of it, a friend
remarked, “What a long way the smell of
incense carries from Westminster Cathe-
dral! Humea , for all its old-world smell
comes from Australia.
He is engagingly frank about his disap-
pointments. Flowering plants that never
flower, lettuces that flower disconcertingly
soon, expensive corms that are eaten by
pests—he has known them all.
I remember buying some seeds under the
name xltl Sweet-pea from Oregon”; they
germinated promptly and grew with a vigoi
that is all too rare in choice plants, climb
ing with alacrity up the sticks that I pro
vided for them. It was not until, at last
they reluctantly flowered. that I could no
longer conceal from myself that they wer
the Common Vetch, with which the'garden
was already hatefully infested.
There are seven fine drawings by John
IN ash.
On the Screen of the Mind
Bombay Riots, by C. Denis Pegge
(bcholartis, 10s. 6d.); was probably inspired
Sr great unshot as Wells called
, J he Dynasts.” Some passages are quoted
om Hardys poem which emphasise its
resemblance to a scenario-script. Take the
famous scene in the House of Commons^
. 1 ll<? emidle-snuffers go round, and Pit!
"ft, V m Ti lg t aiomentary pause befor<
«rlim P • tho , H 0115 5 assumes an attentive
stillness in which can be heard the rustling
of the trees without, a horn from an early
horn- 1 anc * the voice of the watch crying the
I here for readers of intelligence and know-
ledge is as vivid a reconstruction of <•
moment at Westminster in the eighteenth
century as any stage or screen could give
the author of Bombay Riots uses prac
tically no dialogue. His a.im is to substitute
tor a flow of words a flow of pictures. The
technique employed by Virginia Woolf in
ino Wa\ es may be compared to his. in
e sense that her book, like his, consists
ot a succession of imagined visions, but ho
sticks rigidly to the conventional devices
ot the scenario-writer. Ill's storv, which is
about a not during the Civil Disobedience
campaign of 1930, is simply a “shooting!
script. He even gives the time in second-
of each shot in the margin. This is how
%."A£L m * r **•» rest ™
m ( B|uigalc., Baboo, round face, white gar-
t<m,Zd cj<,OHl(,tor V Week in his native
4". ’ _ '
Ryot; almost naked
Land ejaculatory speech in another tongue
Punjab; peasant, lightly clad.
hand ejaculatory speech in another tongue.
And so on with Mohammedans in fez cans
and turbaned Sikhs, Ghurkas and
natives and Pathans. The method is so
Bn 3 1? 1 lai ' j hat those who don’t know
Bombay* and aren t accustomed to read
scenarios may find it tedious for a while
but the ever-growing horror, the rising fury
o he natives and the disciplined couraS
beiif \ hltGS T e soon felt if they were
being observed visually. As Anfk„
Asquith says in a foreword; “No novel could
have presented this material with the -ame
no play could have com!
parsed its enormous scope a.nd variety of
scene and emotion,” \aiiety of
RED PAGE.
For the Defence
Another Australian School
While “M.G.S” (R.p. 10/8/’32) dearly
is SS I 3 ü bG d r»Pomted with
Ills sehool. I would not have him think
that all Australian boys suffer as he dM
” ofo°d rn B ,t Hs SCIMoI "™ <0 be
masters aid (9Y rV mcora k et f nce of the
’fl (2) dlsre § ar d of real culture
Some of the masters at mv public school
were Australians, but in all cases they had
(Red Pape continued on page d.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’’—PIain Fads, Open Dealing.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
Now i
is
Horderns'
the Time to SEW!
ARRIVED!
V. -' •; .. • •' ■ > V
Springs Gayest
Colored Silk Voiles
1 /9 yd.
Silk- Voiles, with a lustrous silky finish, in new
tonings, including Cream, Fawn, Pink, Orange,
Lemon, Turquoise, Mauve, Royal, Coral,
Biscuit, Navy, also Black. 36 inches wide.
Price, yard 1/9
Printed Haircords at
1/lliyd
Printed Haircords, for cool and summery frocks.
Available in fast washing colors. Floral and
Spot designs on White and Colored grounds.
38 inches wide. Price, per yard 1/11 a
Printed Cambrics at
113 yd.
Printed Cambric. Available in fast colors in
new season’s designs and colorings. 32 inches
wide. Price, per yard 1/3
Fuji de Luxe 1/3 yd.
Plain Colored Fuji de Luxe, with a high silky
appearance—a splendid washing material, avail-
able in the latest summery colorings. 29 inches
wide. Price, per yard . 1/3
ƒg
Chiffon
Voiles
1/11 yd.
Printed Chiffon Voiles.
Latest floral designs,
printed on both light
and dark grounds. 36
inches wide.
Price, per yard . . 1/11
Printed Rayons 1/6 yd.
Printed Rayons. The colors are fast, and the
tonings the latest. Printed on serviceable dark
grounds. There is a large variety for selection.
36 inches wide. Price, per yard 1/6
Lingerie Crimps 1/6 yd.
Lingerie Crimps, on grounds of White,
Cream, Pink, Nil, Helio, Sky and Lemon.
30 inches wide. Used extensively for under-
clothing.
Price, yard 1/6
New Cotton Frisca
1/11 yd.
Cotton Frisca, the new material for spring wear.
In checks and plain colors to match, including
Almond, Rose, Grey, Biscuit, Saxe, Fawn and
Red. 36 inches wide. Price, per yard . . 1/11
( Cottons—Ground Floor, Pitt, Street. We Pay
Carriage in iV.£.TF.)
You must have a good
Sewing Machine
The “White” Cabinet
Machine from £2O
CLOSED
“Sit-Strate” White
A Handsome Dining-room “Sit Strate” Automatic Drophead
Cabinet, fully enclosing the Machine from view. Two drawers
for holding sewing requisites. Made in our own factory from
specially selected woods. By means of the automatic lift, it
is momentarily closed and by the mere raising of the extension
table it is readily brought up with belt on wheel ready for
sewing. Supplied in Maple or Oak, finished Fumed Jacobean,
Mission, Maple or Walnut, with fullig of, attachments.
Vibrator
Rotary
With Deadlight Panel in Door, 30/- extra.
Automatic Drophead
£l9/10/- and £2O/10/-
f
A “White” four-
d rawer Automatic
Dro p-b ead o £
straight design, fin-
ished in best
Polished American
Oak. The drawers
are enclosed in case-
ment, mounted on
short, ribbon-type
Stand, with Ball- Complete with full set of attach-
Stf. S »a*es it easy to dast^
Vibrator No. 8 £2O/10/-
Kotary
The Nu-way Hemstitcher
ƒ
2/6 ea.
Here is a necessary little
gadget for your sewing
machine, a practical Hem-
stitcher. .. .which can he
used in so many helpful
ways. It is marvellously
simple... .and fits any
machine.
It is priced below all propor-
tion to its utility an in-
stance of Anthony Horderns?
policy of Value...and requires
no skill to use. Full direc-
tions for all sorts of stitches
accompany the appliance.
It hemstitches, picots, tucks
and., scallops. Postage paid.
Secure Your Sewing Machine
on the D.P.S. if necessary.
Virst select the goods you require. Leave a deposit on
them pay off the balance in instalments and the
, ours You pay no interest at all, nor any
fncrease iu 'price' for the accommodation, but on the
contrary you have always the advantage of Anthony
Horderns’ “Famous Low Prices.
(Sewing Machine's— Ground Floor , Pill Street. Free
Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
The Time
to Buy
v
i
■ft \
J
HWfts
urj.y
«j>>.
tj 3>3
S><v
W>Vi
3\J
vzo
'iiZ
-for New
1 Cprinf
OfrocKS,
Printed Shantung
3/11 yd.
Printed Shantung now as popular as ever for
Sports F rocks, etc. Printed in the newest
American designs. Reliable in both wash and
wear. Double width. Price, yard .... 3/11
Newest Georgettes
l/l 12 yd.
New consignment of Silk Georgettes. Latest
shades as well as White, Navy and Black. An
all pure silk washing quality. Double width.
Price, yard l/llz
Crepe de
Chine
6/11 yd.
Diagonal Flat Crepe de
Chine, in designs ex-
clusive to Anthony Hor-
derns’ for Sydney.
Printed on reliable-
wearing Crepe de Chine.
Double width.
Price, yard .... 6/11
o°
New Crisp Voiles, 111! yd»
These new, gay Voiles will make up into delight-
fully crisp, cool spring frocks. All the new
tonings in this wide range. Double width. x
Price, yard ' z
Crepe Nashiji, only 1 11 2 yd.
Something entirely new for Spring Frocks
Crepe Nashiji. 49 delightful shades for selec-
tion. Double width! Excellent value.
Price, yard ' a
Spotted Spun Silk, 3 11 yd.
Spotted Spun Silks, obtainable only at Anthony
Horderns'. Good wearing quality, moderately
priced. Price, yard 3 / 11
Printed Shan-Chine, 4/11 yd.
Fadeless Washing-quality Shan-Chine—a new
silk weave. Displayed in new Spots, Checks,
Striped and Floral Designs. Double width
Price, yard '
( Silks—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Carnage in N.S.W .)
We Pay
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 271 2C, G.P.O.


ie<)£
1932 British Bedfords
offer the latest in
Modern Transportation
AT NEW LOW PRICES!
Available in
4 CHASSIS
and
10 BODY
STYLES!
r
« x<v ya. ><<•>:< y* '/a
m m
mm
•; . ..-; '■/
W
mm
Bedford Well side Utility Model No. 708,
For Heavier Loads . . •
30-cwt. and 2-ton Trucks. These 1932 Bed-
ford Trucks provide the most reliable and
economical transport possible in their re-
spective classes. The powerful 26.3 h.p.
Bedford six-cylinder engine has an unusu-
ally heavy four-bearing crankshaft, and full
force pressure lubricating systfeni. With the
heavy duty four forward speed gearbox
(extra low bottom gear) tremendous pulling
power results.
All Bedford truck models are available com-
plete with any of General Motors’ extensive
range of standard or special commercial
bodies and cabs, or as chasses only.
Bedford two tonners (131 in. x 157 in. wheel-
bases) are specially designed and built for 2-
ton haulage work—hence the full-floating
rear axle and dual rears—(single rear
wheel equipment is optional). Another
important item in this year’s Bedford range
is the special 157 m. wheelbase Bus Chassis.
See these New British Bedfords at the
showrooms of your nearest Vauxhall-
Bedford dealer. If you cannot call at
once, cut out and mail the coupon
low. General Motors-Holden’s Ltd.
All Bedford Commercial vehicles
may be purchased through the con-
venient G.M.A.C. plan of deferred
payments, thereby permitting the
vehicle to pay for itself in opera-
tion. Ask your local Vauxhall-
Bedford dealer for particulars .
For sterling value there is nothing to
compare with these new British Bed-
fords—both Utilities and Trucks con-
stitute the very latest in modern trans-
portation.
Utilities for Fast
Economical Transportation
The economical six-cylinder engine makes
light work of steepest hills; the chassis has
ample strength for all emergencies, while
the stout, well-designed range of bodies by
Holdens is suitable for every class of light
haulage.
SPEEDY ... Bedford’s power unit is ideally
suited for general utility work. It has all
the speed and acceleration you need to nip
through crowded traffic, while its flexible
top-gear performance keeps running costs
remarkably low.
SMART . . . From the appearance point of
view, these new Bedford Utilities are out-
standing. Finished in smart businesslike
colours, every model represents a splendid
advertisement for its owner.
COMFORT AND UTILITY . . . The driving
compartment offers all the comforts and
convenience of the roadster after which it
was designed. As a result, Bedford Utilities
will be popular with those who desire to
combine business with motoring for pleasure
at minimum cost.
PM
! 1/2?
ii
x*x*>-
IgS
m
am
xxwm
&kM
mi
fMM-i.
mm
m
:
ss;
Bedford 30-cwt. Dropside Truck Model No. 723.
CONSULT YOUR
LOCAL
BEDFORD DEALER
THERE ARE VAUXHALL-BEDFORD DEALERS IN ALL MAIN CENTRES
m
EDFOR
&
ADDRESS TO YOUR LOCAL
VAUXHALL-BEDFORD DEALER.
Please send me, free of charge, your illus-
trated descriptive folder on 1932 Bedford
Trucks and Utilities.
Name
Address


\*
*
OW
cv
>8
1%
[r
(t
e-
H
Every part accessible. . . .comes apart
in units, quickly replaced. Hands
clean and no time wasted. This is
one feature of many which make the
new British-made Imperial the finest
machine you can buy. It will save you
many pounds in repair bills during its
lifetime.
Sold at a fixed price, £39/10/- for the Office
Model and £l9/19/- for the Portable.
Guaranteed for three years against faulty
workmanship and materials; serviced free
for the first 12 months.
8
GOOD
REASONS
ii sT“S*"h£
Six
acters.
Int
extra
tha r .
<l>1 ° L^ble
Type.
liZ'^SO.l.e
Dual v,.
Motion, sca Pem ent
trait 41 “ Pin - p oint’’
Special r
Device. Docking
PRICE,
£39/10/-
The British
MHMi
o
a
0
d
The following Type-
writers have been re-
placed by new Imperial
machines, and are
offered for sale, recon-
ditioned and guaranteed,
at attractive prices.
Late Model Remington, Under-
wood, Roval, L. C. Smith,
£l.> rebuilt; £l2 10s. over-
hauled. Earlier Models, £10;
other makes, £B. If the
nature of your work does not
warrant the expenditure on a
new Imperial, these machines
will be found to be thoroughly
serviceable. They are sold on
a definite money-back guaran-
tee if they are not satisfactory
in every way.
TYPEWRITERS.
Imperial Typewriter
Sales Company,
58 Young St., Sydney.
Geo. Ilaitt Pty., Ltd.,
40 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
Burridge & Warren,
Ltd.,
69 King Street, Perth.
Office Supplies Co.,
105 Macquarie Street,
Hobart.
L. Dobell & Co., Ltd.,
43 Creek Street,
Brisbane.
Office Equippers, Ltd.,
Gawler Place,
Adelaide. t
The
Agents,
Imperial Type-
writers. —I would
appreciate further
information regarding
the new model Imperial
British Typewriter. Thank you'.
NAME
Fill in, and post to your nearest Agent.
pursued their later studies abroad. The
others were from the U.K., though most
had drawn their experience partly from
foreign countries. As a result, the staff
was both versatile and expert.
When I had a fancy to learn Japanese
I found nobody who knew it, though there
was one acquainted with Chinese. Then a
master declared that we would learn it
together. I soon tired of it; he stuck
it and turned to Chinese also. Since then
he has lectured at a TJniversitv in the Far
East, adding to his other attainments a
knowledge of archaeology, of Greek and
Latin literature, of modern history, art,
and architecture, and a thorough familiarity
with German and Polish, as well as French.
Again, I became star-struck. Promptly
there was another master who would bring
me out of prep, to the college observatory,
opening for me a universe of beauty through
a 7in. equatorial. Always the individual
was catered for. There was somebody to
sponsor him, whether in nature-study, chess,
swimming or play-acting. Young Woodley
would have had no cause to be shy about
his verses at my school; there was no
master who “didn’t understand,” and there
was one who would interest himself in every
syllable of it, however weak or sentimental.
The other day I read a philosophic article
by him in one of Britain’s leading reviews.
We had our classes, our prep., our exams.,
like every other school, but we had other
things besides. I recall a notice to the
effect that one of the masters would give
an illustrated lecture upon the Art of the
Renaissance—“for such students of XY
Classes as wish to attend.” It would be
delivered during a prep, hour, so that some
of the boys would come merely as an escape
from work. But the next lecture, on Gothic,
would have filled the house even during
a cricket hour.
I cannot recall the vaguest hint of the
“social snobbery” “M.G.S.” complains of.
There was no effort to turn us out as men
for a class, conforming to a standard. We
were encouraged to despise nothing—not
even Hollywood, for a picture-show was pro-
vided for our Sunday evening’s entertain-
ment.
I have never stopped to think about the
“social prestige” of my school, but I plead
guilty to cherishing the chain of associa-
tions which it established for me —and those
not alone among my schoolfellows. Some
of the masters I spoke of who drew their
experience from other countries have
passed on, to add to it. One writes me
from China; another criticises my efforts
from Germany; a third has left his obser-
vatory in younger hands and watches me,
perhaps, through the other end of the
telescope.
There are other masters at my school
now. Even if I have never met them
before, we seem to know one another, to
know the same people, to like the same
things. And still they are the most in-
dividual, the. most versatile group of men
I have yet known. So the Alma Mater
goes on. And if I have derived no cultural
sense from her, I do not care to inquire
whose fault it is.
J.D.K.
English Public Schools
What “P.S.” says about the English public-
school system (R.P. 13/7/’32) has been
said many times. It is doubtful, however,
whether even before the war the schools
deserved half of it. They certainly don’t
now. A few weeks ago I heard the impres-
sions of a M.L. headmaster (an Australian,
by the way) who had just come back from
a visit to France, England and America,
where he had made it his business to in-
spect secondary schools. He spoke with
the greatest enthusiasm, not only of the
quality of work done in the English public
schools, but of its range. He saw no clas-
sical domination. Boys in the higher forms
were encouraged to take, for cultural pur-
poses, subjects other than their specialities.
Thus a classic might take biology or history.
He was struck by the interest taken in
aesthetics, and especially in music. He heard
at one school, admirably given, a Bach
Mass. He came back convinced that the
English system, on the whole, was better
than the French or the American.
Does “P.S.” know that, before the war,
the virtues of the English system were
attracting attention abroad, just as to-day
some in the American University world are
turning to Oxford and Cambridge for
better methods? If the English public
schools are no better than “P.S.” suggests,
the British Empire as it is'would not have
been created and held. Why does the sepoy
trust the judgment of the latest joined
subaltern before that of the veteran of his
own people? You may say that Spion
Kop and Gallipoli were lost on the playing
fields of Eton and Harrow, but history
shows that something must have been
gained there. Look at England to-day. She
is largely governed, in politics and the civil
service, by public-school products. Does
anybody seriously suggest that she is worse
governed than other countries? Is it not
a fact that of all great nations she is
the best governed and the most orderly
—that there is more wisdom, more public
spirit and less corruption among her poli-
ticians and her civil servants? Can any
Dominion equal her in these respects?
Senator Borah, who is far from being in-
fatuated with “the unnatural parent,” said
the other day that Britain was the one
bright spot in the world. The public-school
S y S^em must be given, at least, some credit
for this state of affairs.
CYRANO.
National Anthems
How and why do National Anthems
come? Not necessarily in periods of stress
or glory,, though France happened to achieve
the most racially expressive of all of them,
as regards both words and,music, when half
the civilised world was in arms against her.
A National Anthem doesn’t even need to
be national in origin. It may be written by
a foreigner; even, perhaps; by an enemy-
sub ject. According to the latest authori-
ties the words and music of “God Save the
King” were probably the work of Oswald,
a Scot, who wrote them during the Jacobite
risings which culminated in Preston Pans
and Culloden. Others attribute them to
Carey, an eighteenth-century Irishman.
An imperishable anthem seems to be a
kind of literary “sport,” a come-by-chance.
Almost anybody may write it, with the
odds strongly against one of the recognised
poets of the period. The world would never
have heard of Rougct de Lisle if he hadn’t
written the “Marseillaise.” Musicians
haven’t much to say for the music of “God
Save the King,” yet, for some mysterious
reason, it has been adapted at different
times to the words of the National Anthems
of Germany, America, Denmark and Swit-
zerland, and no Briton can imagine a sub-
stitute for it.
The bearing of all this on The Bulle-
tin’s National Song Competition, which
opened last week, is that nobody with ideas
on the subject need hesitate to enter. The
Bulletin judges may not select the one
which is destined eventually to be selected
by the nation. Obviously, the ultimate
choice in such matters lies with the people.
All its judges can do is to indicate which
is the best, artistically and otherwise, in
their opinion. The Bulletin will give
the necessary publicity to the others, and
that is what is going to count in the race
for fame.
It is offering a First Prize of £25, a Second
Prize of £lO and five consolation prizes,
entries to be in by November 16, 1932.
Entries are free, a,nd there is no limit to the
number of entries a writer may send in.
The only obligation on entrants is that they
shall allow their anthems to be published
in The Bulletin and Woman’s Mirror.
and agree to them being set to music and
sung without royalties.
Entries should be enclosed in an envelope,
and addressed “Song Competition,” Bulle-
tin office, Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney;
they should be signed with a pen-name, the
writer’s real name along with his pen-name
being attached in a separate sealed envelope.
Every effort will be made to announce the
results in The Bulletin issue of December
14.
A Satchel of Books
The Chalet Girls in Camp, by Elinor M.
Brent-Dyer (Chambers; 3s. 6d.). A book
for Guides. The maidens go into camp near
a lake in the Tyrol, and have a series of
mild adventures. There are three illustra-
tions and a frontispiece, .
It was bound to come. The John S. Mills
Publishing Service, Sydney,' has produced
The Hiking Guide (Is.). It gives directions
for 30 hikes round Sydney, in the mountains
and National Park, and in the Moss Vale
district. There are some interesting photo-
graphs and a couple of maps.
Us Three Outback, by Ruth M. Hawker
(Allan’s, Adelaide ; 4s. 6d.). A collection
of stories and verses for children, mostly
about animals, with some admirable draw-
ings by Nora Young. It is designed prim-
arily for country youngsters, but city ones
will like it, too. The get-up is a credit
to the printers and bookbinders of S.A.
Many a time have cow-punching friends
of W. C. Tuttle ridden into seemingly crime-
free Wild Western townships, complained
that the distric’ weren’t what she were for
excitement, and presently found themselves
glaring through the fog of battle upon a
landscape bestrewn with corpses. It hap-
pens again in The Silver Mystery (Collins;
7s. 6d.). Goober Glendon and . his pard,
Johnny Wells, are the dandy scrappers who
find trouble on this occasion, and Johnny
is the one who gets the girl and the .iob
on the ranch.
Death Under Sail, by G. P. Snow (Heine-
mann; 7s. 6d), is a new kind of murder
story. The > people involved are leisured
though not indecently rich Britons, and the
death occurs aboard a wherry on the Nor-
folk Broads. It leaves Mt. Ararat as prac-
tically the only part of the earth’s surface
that some writer or other hasn’t chosen as
the site of a crime novel. The problem is :
How and why was Dr. Roger Mills killed
in the cockpit of his yacht when all his
guests seemed to be his affectionate friends ;
A stirring yarn "in its quietly-told way, with
some good character-drawing and a feasible
ending.
The Australian Council for Educational
Research has issued two useful handbooks
in Occupations in Victoria, by G. R. Giles
and John R. Lyall (45.), and Australian
Educational Studies (55.), by a number os
leading educationists. The first, which is
designed largely afe an occupational guide,
for exit pupils of Victorian schools, contains
a complete list of available callings and
their absorptive capacity, with graphs, ano
there are some additional graphs of typical
occupations in an appendix. The other book
deals knowledgeably with such subjects as
“Tests of Teaching Ability,” “Problem
Children” and “The Length of the Teacher’s
Professional Life.” A fascinating article on
a nursery school, by M. V. Gutteridge,
B.Sc., describes the physical and mental
development of infants and their reactions
to one another. The Growing Child (25.),
which deals with child management, is a
companion volume.
Answers to Correspondents.
f{ fprnrnt ni n hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. a f 6
° To liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted:
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
8.H.: Poignant; but not suitable....
Patricia R.: This paper has a prejudice against blue
eyes in album verse. (P.S.: Also brown, grey and
black) George V. (Vic., not Buckingham Palace):
One verse:—
But if you’ve never wed at all, you know not what
you’ve missed;
’Tis only those who’vc borne the constant strain
Of married life who know what petty bickerings exist
In many homes where harmony should reign.
True, anyhow, even if it isn’t poetry... .A.L.D.:
Too obvious. , But keep going—you have a feeling
for romance... .Two Girls: We used to sing a better
one than that 8.M.8.: But you’ve got nothing to
say... .Librarius: Oif our beat. ...584: Your old
salt is no seller, anyway John S.: “Liberator”
called for three readings; but it went out. Other
hasn’t the same quality... .Joyce S.: Your “Parting”
comes to you again.... Gabnelle M.: “The trill of
some aerial melodist.” That’s a new. one. But
what do you mean by the sea’s “deep immunity”?
V.F.: In places it descends heavily to undis-
tinguished prose J.M.L.: An exercise in rhyming,
nothing move. Not a trace of real feeling in it.
S.M.Mi: Try them on some children’s page. But
they very rarely make a sharp picture... .Eos: Two
lines:—
Dark sky shouting with stars,
Shrill frost crying aloud.
No lack of imagination, anyhow... .J.C.G.: Already
enough gardens of dreams in the basket to start an
estate agency on. The other ditty is too forlorn... .
P.L.C.: Perhaps we didn’t. Perhaps we thought it
might have a chance somewhere else; in which
case the most helpful thing is not to say a word....
R.8.C.: Dry as a bosun’s throat... .Evan D.: One
stanza to help us on our way:—
Bow down your heads, my brothers, and
Breathe low this prayer with me;
A tribute to our mothers all,
That we might better be.
F.W.H.: Not bad of its kind, but hardly our
kind 1.. G.: It began promisingly enough for a
parody; after that you simply copied the rhymes
and let the spirit go hang... .G.H..T.M.: Seems a
slovenly way of killing pigs, and your versification
makes it shuddersome... .8.J.F.: There’s no spark
in the verses.... R.L.M.: Tinny as the subject....
P’.A.M.: An estimable woman, no doubt, but your
balladry is wooden Ginger: Don’t know which is
the more dreadful, the story or your way of telling
it. .. . D.S.: Heavy as cold batter pudding S.W.:
Apostrophe to “An Old Tree” beginning
Softlv the shadows fall and the night breeze gently
stirs the boughs of yonder ancient gum,
Which has withstood for centuries the elements and
will withstand them for many years to come—
fails to touch us... .H.A.S.: You rhyme atrociously,
you have no idea of metre, your spelling is rocky
and your meaning obscure... .Judith: There’s an
idea in it, but the verse is strained and ragged....
T.A.: Inspiration is only for poets, but careful
workmanship might yet set you on the lower slopes
of Parnassus... .Bellerive: No silly frills about this:
WRECK OF THE COASTAL STEAMER CASINO,
APOLLO BAY (VIC.), JULY, 1932.
In sight of the —
Jetty of Apollo Bay
Reeled the Casino—
In a disabled way.
Tragic and sudden
Was a total wreck;
The waves with fury
Swept over her deck.
As blusterous winds
Did wailetli around.
Ten in the harrowing
Disaster were drowned.
D.C.T.: No room Jack Horner: Yes, of
course; the middlemen (including the carriers) are
imposing on both producers and consumers. That is
quite obvious. But how do you propose to stop it?
J.E.S.: Ghastly A.M.: A literary tomtit
J.8.W.: Good idea, but you fail to sustain the fun.
. ...E.J.W.: Tame... .K.E.: Sobstuff S.G.D.S.:
You ask the reader to swallow too much 0.M.C.:
Purposeless F.T.H.: Unreal R.S.P.: It might
appeal 'to some other editor in an emotional mood.
. ...E.E.: But what we did admire was your effort
to make “point” and “flamboyant” rhyme....
Penelope: Last- two lines strike us as bathos
R.E.S.: Your unknown convict is reburied in a
wicker coffin Christine C.:' “Night Piece” and
“Hill Ton” trail off into weak endings. Imagery
good W.L.T.: Well, The Bulletin has acknow-
ledged it a dozen times —last occasion, August 17,
pnge 9 R.L.McC.: Too many sweat-marks on it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
COBRESPONDENTS.
J.F.C.: You give him planks of wood for legs....
C.J.W.: They wouldn't reproduce... .L.H.: “I spend
the winter evenings drawing.” Thank Heaven,
winter's over!.... W.R.: Small fry....M.J.: Take
more pains with your work... .C.M.D.: The bald-
head is retracing his steps... .S.C.R.: About as~
poor as a drawing could be... .H.8.L.: “Quite Im-
possible” it is... .S.S.T.: Send it to the parish
magazine P.8.W.: Make them bigger... .D. 8.:
Don’t • want colored pictures of farmyard pets....
H.C.8.: An eye-wrecker... .R.G.11.: A very old
Bulletin joke S.D.: Middling, but you can’t draw
a blaekfellow T.A.: All call for more polish....
. D.A.K.: Promising, but get a style of your 0wn....
J.L.: Crashed.


sdf
G
i
ms
m
i
■
■
'la
• '1
■■ ■
§1
m § ;
; ' <
■i
I
■
G>-
:
M
M
• zi
\
--V .
i
J
5
>
■■■■ -
;. i* ;
4
m
zft Wmmm
i
m '
m
:■ ' *
"■
HH
jgfilii
\
&


The Bulletin
Vol. <53 —No. 2744.
September 14, 1932.
MUSIC WEEK IN THE ARBITRATION COURT.-BASIC WAGE OBBLIGATO.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252 IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westiialia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12c. 6d.;
t months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 72 months, £1 10s.;
< months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for 4oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2os.
HOW INDUSTRY IS BLED.
Suppose prices of wool and wheat and other
land products were lifted back to the
perilous level to which they climbed five
or six years ago, what would follow? In
the first place it is certain land values would
spring again; and in a dozen years’ time
few of the men on the land would be free
of debt and in comfortable circumstances.
During the short burst of high prices a
few years ago farmers and graziers made
a heap of money. Then the thing happened
which has happened so often before: many
of the wisest of them sold out at prices
based on the boom markets for wool and
wheat; many of the rest bought other prop-
erties at boom values, and mortgaged the
old ones to pay the deposit.
Precisely the same thing happened in con-
nection with sugar. The price of raws aver-
aged about £l2 a ton in the early years of
the century. From 1910 to 1914 it was
about £l4. In 1915 the Government pro-
hibited both import and export, and the
price was raised to £l5. Our supplies were
not.,'however, sufficient; and a Commission
presently suggested that the price should be
lifted to £22. To Mr. Hughes that did
not look enough to send men trooping
to the industry; so he made the figure
£3O 6s. Bd. For a few years the industry
was highly profitable; for those who have
come into it during the last 10 years it is
very doubtful whether it has been more
profitable than it was when the price of
raw sugar was £l5. Land values were
thrust up to ridiculous heights; and with
them, as generally happens, labor and other
costs mounted too.
One after another witnesses have gone
before the Federal Wool Committee to say
that the burdens which are crushing them
are interest and land tax. Labor costs —
“inside the fence,” at any rate—have been
cut. to the bone. “I could not pay my way
if I employed no labor,” one experienced
grazier reported; and the manager of the
Falkiner stations in N. S. Wales told the
committee that to them the land tax repre-
sented the difference between profit arid
loss. In all these cases there is what
amounts to an admission that high land
r alues are the prime cause of the present
distress.
And what do we really get out of them?
'Lake a typical case from the Riverina.
Here was a sheep-run secured almost en-
tirely by conditional purchase. It cost the
holders under 20s. an acre, and they had
the easiest possible terms of payment. Be-
fore the freehold was secured—when,
indeed, only a few shillings had been paid
to the Crown—wheat-farmers from Victoria,
who had been crowded out of the Wim-
mera and elsewhere and wanted more land
for their sons, moved into N. S. Wales, and
20 years ago this Riverina squattage was
cut up and sold. It fetched about £6 an
acre. The owners had done not a thing
for the £5 which they pocketed: the im-
provements they made would be worth not
more than the balance owing to the Crown,
which the purchasers paid. The purchasers
had a few years of struggle; then with the
return of men from the war there was
another hunt for land, and some sold out
for £8 an acre. Seven or eight years later,
with wheat sky-high, there were sales up to
£lO an acre. Certainly some improvements
had been made—say. 10s. an acre. The rest
was simply tribute levied upon the indus-
try. In some cases the sellers went north
with their money and bought larger areas
—in the hope that later on they would be
able to levy upon the producers for an-
other lot of tribute. In other cases they
drifted to the cities and helped to pro-
mote a similar boom in values there.
No doubt the question has to be faced
whether men would go farming if they did
not hope to sell out at a profit. Perhaps
there are men who would not otherwise go
on the land; but the industry would be
far better without them. It is they who
have pushed up land values until to-day,
even in normal circumstances, it is hardly
possible for a farmer to make enough to
live on in reasonable comfort, and provide
even modestly for old age. And there has
been almost a worse result than that. This
hope of selling out at a profit has made
thousands of farmers regard themselves as
mere sojourners on the land, so that they
have never provided themselves and their
wives and families with ordinary conveni-
ences. In a multitude of cases they have
died in their discomfort.
Nor is it only in the farming districts
that this curse of land speculation and high
values lays a heavy hand upon industry.
There was a significant paragraph in The
Bullettin last week about a threatened
strike at Broken Hill in resistance of the
reduction of the basic wage: it was said
that, on the Government Statist’s figures,
the cost of living was lower there than in
Sydney. Yet Broken Hill is in the midst
of what is a good deal like a desert; it is
over 300 miles from the source of its food
supply except meat, and more than that
from its most-used shipping port; water is
comparatively dear, and most of its fuel has
to be drawn nearly a thousand miles. Yet
in every recent year the cost of living
has been substantially lower there than in
Sydney, and in some years lower than in
Newcastle. The whole explanation lies in
the cost of housing: the accommodation
which costs £1 14s. 4d. in Sydney and
£1 12s. in Newcastle costs only £1 Os. Bd.
in Broken Hill. The difference is chiefly
in the value of land. Broken Hill is on a
mining field, where nobody can take up
more than an acre, and where almost any-
body can occupy that much under a miner’s
right at the cost of a few shillings a year.
The question is what can be done about
it. There was a time when it was thought
that unimproved land-value taxation would
solve the problem: it was going to take the
unearned imerement for the State, stop
speculation in land and prevent land being
held out of use. Yet to-day we find the
curse of high land values sitting more
heavily upon us than perhaps at any other
time in our history. And we find, too, that
the unimproved land-value tax, which was to
lighten the burdens of industry, is pressing
very heavily upon industry. Take the case
of the Falkiners—it was mentioned just
now. Nobody can say that they are not
using their land; with it they have done
more for Australia’s most important indus-
try than almost any other people who could
be named. Yet they say that to-day it is
land tax which alone keeps them from show-
ing any profit at all. Obviously the tax
is not doing what it was designed to do,
and is doing what it was not designed to do.
So long as the Falkiners hold their land
and use it. it does not matter to the com-
munity whether its market value is £1
or £2O an acre. The community becomes
interested when it is passed on or pledged
to somebody else; and it seems that that is
where we shall have to step in. In the
interests of the productive industries of this
country—secondary as well as primary-
land values must not be allowed to go
on piling up without check.
RAILWAY CAPITAL.
To the end of 1930 a total of 314 millions
had been spent on the construction and
equipment of the State railways of Australia;
the Federal system represents an addi-
tional 15 millions. The interest payable on
the debt for which the State lines are re-
sponsible and the net revenue available
towards payment of that interest have been
as follows for five years:—
Interest Net
Payable. Revenue. Deficit.
1926.. £13,230,928 £6,546,235 £6,685,693
1927.. 14,059,909 8,574,736 5,485,173
1928.. 14,507,733 9,765,521 4,744,755
1929.. 15,099,663 11,089,187 4,010,470
1930.. 15,516,740 7,932,737 7,584,003
There was a heavier loss for 1931; but
that year was so abnormal that it may well
be omitted from this inquiiy. During the
five-year period quoted the net revenue
varied from 2.37 p.c. on total capital in
1926 to 3.58 p.c. in 1929. Considering the
number of lines which do not pay even
working expenses, these are not bad figures
at all: in N. S. Wales alone in 1930 there
were 56 lines which earned altogether
£2,511,000 and cost £2,636,000 to run (apart
from interest). What is utterly wrong is that,
in order to reach these net revenue figures,
in the teeth of such an enormous loss on poli-
tical lines, some bf the users of the railways
are .being cruelly penalised. If the railway
systems have been handicapped by the
politicians, who have spent many millions
to win votes, should not the whole body of
the people pay for it, and not the railway
user in particular? Mistakes are made
under private enterprise, too—sometimes
there are worse than mistakes. The prac-
tice in those cases is quite definite. If the
mistake or worse has been serious enough
to call for it, the co. reconstructs. In
America in the 30 years prior to 1911 nearly
600 railway cos., with an aggregate capital
of £1,335,000,000, were reorganised, with a
total loss of capital far greater than the
total capital of Australian railways. We
cannot get rid of our liabilities so easily.
In these American instances the capital was
wiped out and no attempt made to squeeze
interest on it out of the customers. In
Australia we have been leaving the lost or
wasted or used-up capital in our railway
accounts, and have tried to make the cus-
tomers pay for it.
Certainly one other measure has been
taken in the attempt to make the business
show that it is earning interest on capital,
wasted and otherwise. In an ordinary
private business the life of every piece of
plant is estimated, and enough is put by
out of earnings to pay for it in its lifetime.
If a private firm failed to do this it would
inevitably go broke. While it neglected to
charge for wear and tear, it could, of course,
show larger profits than it would do if it
were honest; but it could not go on showing
them indefinitely. The time would come
when it would have to replace the worn-out
plant; and then the fat would be in, the
fire. In the attempt to show that they have
earned interest on their capital, Australian
railways have neglected to provide for re-
placements, with the result that a good deal
of the loan-money is to-day represented by
worn-out or obsolete engines and rolling
stock. S. Australia, having acquired a
new Commissioner, was bluntly told a few
years ago that it must write off 16 p.c. of its
capital for this reason; and in Victoria it
is estimated that 22 p.c. ought to be written
off. Queensland has gone further than S.
Australia. Its railways have cost about
64 millions; and of this no less than 28
millions was last year made a general
instead of a railway liability. Now N. S.
Wales, which hitherto has been content with
making a small grant in aid of railway
revenue—voted by Parliament as a sort of
conscience money—proposes to attack the
capital account in the same manner.
This job of reconstruction can be done
;n several ways. The simplest, piobably, is
to value the undertaking on past results.
Between 1919-20 and 1928-29 (and that
begins at the end of one disturbed period
and ends before the stai’t of the next), the
average capital in Australian State lines
was 266 millions, and the average yearly net
revenue was £9,293,000. If the systems were
capitalised on that basis at 5 p.c., they
would be worth 185 millions. That would
mean that an almost exact 30 p.c. of the
capital cost would have to be transferred
from the railways to gen mil account. But
there is this objection to the plan: the net
revenue is greater than it would have been
had no more than a fair charge been made
for railway services.
In a practical way something is to be
gained by remodelling the accounts. At
present the public does not know whether
railway managements are doing a fair thing
or not. It knows that a huge loss does not
reflect on the business and technical con-
trol at all. Nor is it able to distinguish a
great success and give credit for it. Vari-
ations in the ultimate figures mean nothing
to the average man. This should not be.
He ought to be able to see in them pre-
cisely what he sees in the varying figures
of a business in which he is interested.
When that happens—when there is a
struggle, perhaps at the end of a year, to
avoid showing a loss, or it may be to just
top the profit of the previous year—we
may expect to get better work out of the
railway staffs.
THE SHELTERED INDUSTRIES.
The annua] report of the Tariff Board is,
taken by and large, a plain, sane state-
ment. t It recognises that Protection, like
most other good things, can be made
bad use of, and that we cannot afford
exploitation. We are not our own masters
—less, indeed, our own masters than we
once #ere. We have 600 millions of over-
seas debt, and we must pay interest and
charges on that amount or default. This
means that’ we must be large exporters
to overseas markets, where we must face
world-competition. That compels us to
give the most careful consideration to the
requirements of the primary industries,
upon which alone we have to depend for
our exports. On the other hand, bulk of
exports cannot keep us nationally solvent;
only a sufficient surplus of exports over
imports can do that. The duty of the
Tariff Board is therefore to seek some-
where the Golden Mean: to protect the
primary producer against excessive costs
while giving enough encouragement to
secondary industries to ensure a surplus of
exports over imports.
Protection was designed to enable young
industries to pay wages and give conditions
which the competition of countries with a
low standard of living would otherwise
make impossible. But it has an obligation
to the community as well; and the Tariff
Board has this in mind when it refers to the
disturbingly high cost of essential plant and
raw materials in Australia. “It felt it
incumbent upon it continually to lay
emphasis on the prevailing high price of
essential products, for the reason that, until
such prices were materially reduced to meet
the seriously reduced purchasing power of
the community, neither the demand for the
products nor employment could be effect-
ively resuscitated.”
The obligation which lies heavily upon
those in control of the secondary indus-
tries is to improve their organisation
and their technique, and thus both better
their product and reduce their costs. What
can be done in this way under favorable
circumstances the metallurgical industry has
well shown. The case of the B. H. South
is typical. In 1913 218 tons per annum
were mined per underground employee; in
1931 no less than 595 tons. In 1925 the
total cost of treatment per ton of crudes
was just over Bs.; in 1931 it was down to
ss. Bkl. Yet, notwithstanding that reduc-
tion of costs, 94.3 p.c. of the lead was re?
covered as against 87.1 p.c. and 90.9 of the
silver as against 78.5 p.c. Nothing but
these great improvements has enabled the
mines to keep open.
And there is an obligation on the workers
in both the secondary and distributing in-
dustries to join in reducing costs, so that
the workers in the unsheltered industries
may sell their products and still make a
decent living—which many of them have
not been able to do lately.
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL REFORMS.
I he problem of the Second Chamber is
very complex and very difficult. To the
question “What do you want it to do?”
there is one answer to-day and a different
answer to-morrow. A great deal has been
heard lately ol what is called the Bryce
report on the reform of the House of Lords;
and it has been suggested that N. S. Wales,
which has the reform of its Leg. Council
in hand, could not do better than accept the
Bryce Conference’s recommendations. But
would the Bryce Conference report in 1932
for any Australian State as it reported in
1917 for Britain? Tremendous things, it has
to be remembered, have happened since
then one tremendous thing in particular.
Lord Bryce’s Conference knew nothing of
the Russian Revolution, nothing of the
establishment of the Soviet Republic. In
1917 there was no Bolshevik menace to the
world. Communism had disciples, certainly;
but a handful of its adherents had not then
seized the opportunity to impose the doc-
trine upon 150 millions, and thereafter
begun a world-wide propaganda.
The Soviet menace is no ordinary political
menace. It is revolutionary; it aims to do
by degrees with the world what it did
with Russia. It declares quite plainly that
the end justifies the means. The “over-
throw of the capitalist order” is, in its
view, so important that the sacrifice of a
few million lives, if need be, must not stand
in the way. Its policy is to seize power
where it can and how it can. “In this
fight,” one of its circulars of instruction
reads, “right and wrong have no meaning.”
A handful of its supporters may lie and
buy their way to Ministerial office. Without
any sanction from the people they may
proceed to lay the foundations of Sovietism
in the State. That the majority is opposed
to it all is of no consequence to them.
Their avowed aim is “government by the
conscious minority,” the majority being a
poor “amorphous mass.”
The position, then, is entirely different
from that which the Bryce Conference
faced. That body never saw the necessity
for resisting and defeating the attempted
seizure of government by a body bent
upon uprooting -our political and social
institutions. What it saw was the need for
a body to improve, the quality of legisla-
tion. In the Conference’s own words, the
functions of a House of Lords are (1) “the
examination and revision of bills brought
from the House of Commons”; (2) “the
initiation of bills dealing with subjects of
a comparatively non-controversial nature”;
and (3) “full and free discussion of large
and important questions, such as those of
foreign policy, at moments when the House
of Commons may happen to be so much
occupied that it cannot find sufficient time
for them.” A Chamber well fitted to carry
out those functions might not be strong
enough to do the work which it may now
fall to the lot of a Second Chamber to do—-
which, indeed, did fall to the lot of the
Second Chamber to do only a few months
ago in N. S. Wales.
Because the people elect the Commons
the Conference deliberately planned a
Second Chamber which would not feel itself
justified in thwarting the other. Because it
required the Second Chamber to be of such
a character that it could not claim to be
representative, the Conference ruled out
every proposal for election by the people.
In the end a majority of members agreed
that one-fourth of the House (with certain
modifications as time went on) should be
chosen from the present House of Lords,
and three-fourths by the members of the
House of Commons divided into 13 terri-
torial groups and voting on a system of
proportional representation.
But, while those provisions of the Bryce
scheme which rule out a Chamber directly
representative of the people are wholly un-
suited to our circumstances and our needs,
we might well consider its recommendations
relating to disputes between the two Houses.
Each Chamber was to appoint 30 members
of a conference: 20 of these would be chosen
for the lifetime of the Parliament to deal
generally with disputes between the Cham-
bers, 10 to deal with any particular dispute
that might occur. A bill in dispute could
come before this conference of 60 members
at the request of either Chamber. It might
accept, reject or amend a measure. If re-
jected, the measure would disappear; other-
wise it would go back to the two Chambers.
They might accept or reject it. If they both
rejected it, that would end the matter.
If one accepted and the other rejected it,
the conference would again deal with the
bill—but not till the next session. The
conference might again accept or reject
it; if it should send it again to the Cham-
bers without amendment, then it need be
passed only by the Commons to become
law. By some such plan every modern
Constitution seeks, in the words of the
Bryce Conference, to interpose “so much
delay (and no more) in the passing of a
bill into law as may be needed to enable
the opinion of the nation to be adequately
expressed upon it.”


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Death and the Depression.
Sydney “Worker” has discovered that an-
other foul crime has been committed by
the capitalists:—
Victoria, with Argyle as its Premier, has the
highest infantile mortality rate of all the Australian
States. Moreover, it is increasing—the figure was
47.41 (per 1000 births) compared with 41.99 for
the first three months of 1931. N.S.W., with
Stevens in charge, was the next highest, 43.45. If
these statistics don’t mean that babies are dying
from malnutrition, as a result of their mothers’
inability to provide them with proper nourishment,
what, in the name of Reason, DO they mean?
As a matter of fact, Victoria had a Labor
Government (Hogan’s) and N. S. Wales
an alleged Labor Government (Lang’s)
during the first quarters of both 1931 and
1932, so Argyle and Stevens arc guiltless
of the atrocities imputed to them. Never-
theless, Hogan was no more responsible for
the increase in the Victorian rate than the
“Tory” McPhee was responsible for the de-
crease in the Tasmanian rate, which de-
clined from 41.16 in the first three months
of 1931 to 29.85 in the first three months of
1932—conceivably a world’s record for a
summer quarter. Australian politicians have
many sins to answer for, but their direct
influence on infant mortality is small. The
rate goes up in unfavorable seasons (especi-
ally prolonged summers, when flies are a
plague), and down in favorable seasons,
whatever the politicians may do or leave
undone.
Actually the depression has affected the
undertaking trade as well as all others.
Comparing two full pre-depression and two
depression years, these were the infant-
mortality rates for the six States:—
Pre-Depression. Depression.
1927. 1928. 1930. 1931.
N.S.W 54.94 54.77 49.84 43.48
Vic. .. .. 56.05 55.63 44.47 41.99
Q’land .. .. 54.46 45.54 39.97 36.56
S.A. . . . . 53.43 47.51 48.38 36.35
W.A 45.86 48.14 46.74 41.53
Tas. . . . . 52.97 63.95 50.56 45.99
The rates for the whole continent were
54.47 in 1927, 52.96 in 1928. 51.10 in 1929,
47.24 in 1930 and 42.14 in 1931. Equally
striking was the fall in the death rate per
1000 of mean population, all ages:—
1927. 1928. 1930. 1931.
N.S.W. .. .. 9.59 9.34 8.53 8.48
Vic. .. . . 9.71 10.11 5.94 9.48
Q’land .. .. 9.06 8.77 7.93 7.86
S.A. . . . . 8.98 8.92 8.35 8.38
W.A 8.81 9.11 9.02 8.75
Tas. . . . . 9.08 10.06 9.01 9.35
Although the population is estimated to
have increased from 6,234,854 at December
31, 1927, to 6,525,920 at the end of last
year, there were 1722 fewer recorded deaths
in 1931 (56,560 altogether) than in 1927
(58,282 altogether). Subjoined are the
figures for the States:—
1927. 1298. 1930. 1931.
N.S.W 22,749 22,657 21,235 21,270
Vic 16,773 17,708 15,959 17,033
Q’land .. .. 8,078 7,976 7,455 7,525
S.A. .. . . 5,128 5,147 4,851 4,888
W.A 3,393 3,640 3,774 3,681
Tas. . . . . 2,033 2,132 1,948 2,057
Follows a table of Australian deaths in
age groups for the last decade, when the
population is estimated to have increased
by 1,016,000:
Under 1 Year and 5 and 20 and
1 Year. Under 5. Under 20. Under 40.
1921 .. 8952 3096 2967 7235
1922 .. 7251 2394 2667 6551
1923 .. 8184 2676 2774 6901
1924 .. 7701 2650 2667 6652
1925 .. 7251 2276 2616 6683
1926 .. 7190 2403 2714 6851
1927 .. 7283 2545 2707 6868
1928 .. 7101 2552 2872 7100
1929 .. 6616 2495 2812 7051
1930 .. 6065 2258 2473 6224
1931 . . 4994 1840 2510 6126
So far from “babies dying of malnutri-
tion,” there were fewer deaths in 1931 of
infants under one year, and a lower mor-
tality rate, than in any previous year since
the establishment of the Commonwealth.
(In 1901, for example, there were 10,666
infantile deaths and a mortality rate of
103.61; in 1902, 11,012 and 107.15; in 1903,
10,963 and 111.36, as against the 1931 total
of 4994 and rate of 42.14.) Considering that
a great part of the population has been
reduced to the plainest of fare these figures
are really remarkable. They are not pre-
sented as an argument for lowering wages,
but they rather suggest that, when times
return to normal, a good man)' people will
enjoy better health than they did in the
boom days if they spend less on pleasure
and save more. At all events, they show
that even bad times have their compensa-
tions. Death, when it comes too soon, is
an immeasurably greater calamity than a
reduction, real or alleged, in “our Austra-
lian standard of living,” as it is called,
though demagogues have got into the way
of roaring, when mild attempts are made
by embarrassed Governments to bring
things back to normal, that “unless the
Australian standard of living is maintained”
—by taxes, capital levies and inflation—the
bottom will fall out of the world.
*
Getting Back to the “Medicine-man.”
Certain Australian university professors,
meeting a week or two ago. seem to have
looked wistfully towards Parliament and
regretted that they were barred from mem-
bership of an elective House. But they
refrained from asserting that this freedom
should be theirs; on the contrary, it seems
to have been the pretty general opinion
that many parents would object to their
children being taught by professors who
did not share their own political opinions.
It is not on record that the professors
lodged any protest; yet is it not their plain
duty to do so? They take a front place
among the intellectual leaders of the com-
munity, and, as such, they seem to be called
upon to declare that such an attitude is
both wrong and dangerous.
There was a time when we believed our-
selves a particularly tolerant people and
ready to give a hearing to anybody. More
than that, we believed ourselves to be a
people without prejudices and inclined to
offer almost any new scheme a trial. We
rather prided ourselves on the revolutionary
things we had adopted—vote by ballot and
Torrens title were ready on our lips. We
talked of our country as the testing-ground
for social experiments. Yet lately a Euro-
pean publicist spoke of Australia as the
country where criticism is resented, our
censorships have both puzzled and amused
the outside world, a recent acute visitor was
astonished to find us unreceptive of new
ideas, and now university professors declare
that many parents would object to a pro-
fessor of a different political color from
themselves teaching their children medicine
or mathematics.
In Russia they ruled out religion because,
they said, it was a dope—it kept people
from thinking. We shall have to consider
whether we are not allowing our politics to
dope us. How many people are really seri-
ously thinking about politics to-day? Con-
sider what lately has happened in Australia.
One body of men. nominally led by Mr.
Lang, dominated the Labor section in N.
S. Wales; and, doped by this group, the
electors gave them an overwhelming majo-
rity in the State’s Assembly. In other
States, where this group was not in a com-
manding position, the Lang dope Was con-
temptuously rejected, and another was swal-
lowed. Mr. Lang did not have to open his
mouth to win the enthusiastic cheers of
the crowd that attended ostensibly to hear
his policy speech. His chairman put it
quite clearly: he did not know what Mr.
Lang was going to say, he did not know
what Mr. Lang’s policy was, but he did
know Mr. Lang was going to be triumph-
antly returned. Almost exactly the same
thing happened when the other leaders took
the platform.
How much honest criticism are we get-
ting on the platform or in the press to-day?
And if we are not getting criticism, how
can we expect our people to think? There
are, in a general way, only two kinds of
teachers, no matter where we find them—
in the school, in the press, on the plat-
form. One lays down the law, says, in
effect, “Believe this and believe that, or be
damned.” The other says, “Here is the
evidence. I believe so-and-so. Now what
do you think?” This country is in great
need of the second type of teacher—-the type
which, above all things, will encourage
thought. Without it how can we hope to
meet new situations, to grapple with new
difficulties? How, without it, can we hope
to tell the false from the true? Let the
community dope itself long enough and it
will lose all sense of values; it will swallow
—as we have seen this community already
swallow—the most fantastic plans and
policies; it will be the credulous victim of
the most cunning or the most criminal.
In short, we shall get back very near to
the condition of the unthinking tribe which
accepts the mastery of the “medicine-man”
and pays him toll.
+
The Job of Governor.
There is something a little humiliating in
a report that came the other day from
Menindie, on the Lower Darling. Sir Philip
Game, Governor of N. S. Wales, had got
that far into the Farthest West of the State,
and thence looked longingly towards
Broken Hill, only a few miles on. But he
had not been invited to Broken Hill; on
the contrary, an invitation had been, it
seems, deliberately withheld. His Excel-
lency “told residents at the Menindie recep-
tion,” according to the “S. M. Herald”
report, “that lie was not the ‘dislikeable’
person some people thought. He expressed
regret that he had not been invited to
Broken Hill, which he desired to ‘see. He
asked the people of Menindie to put in a
good word for him, which they promised
to do.”
While it is very regrettable that the King’s
representative in the senior State should feel
it necessary to beg of strangers among whom
he happens to be thrown for a few hours to
“put in a good word for him,” we ought to
realise that the blame, if' blame attaches
to anybody, attaches chiefly to ourselves.
The duties of State Governor in Australia
are altogether too ill-defined; and because
of it there will inevitably be those who, will
blame them both for doing too much and
for doing too little. That has been proved
in Sir Philip’s case. For 12 months, in the
opinion of The Bulletin and many others,
he did too little; then, in the opinion of
his Labor Ministers, he did far too much.
The instructions should be more explicit;
and care should be taken, too, that their
nature is made better known.
■ ♦—
The Appointment of Judges.
From a Constitutional Lawyer:—
The Bulletin does good service, in urg-
ing and reiterating the need of a better
method of appointing Judges than the inept
and dangerous one of leaving it to the ignor-
ance, prejudice and sinister impulses of the
chance political party in office.
We have had many warnings of the danger.
In the early days of the Federation a Labor
stalwart (and one of the most intelligent
of them) was heard demanding that Labor
“should be represented” on the High Court
Bench. It was, for all practical purposes,
before very long; and in course of tiros
Labor administrators, in the absence of
their >own Prime Minister ancl Attorney-
General, who were known to be opposed to
the proposal, indecently yielding to the urgent
clamor of their own Red following, made
their bid for more effective “representation’
in that court —ineffectively, we believe,
because big jobs beget big responsibilities and
often result in unlooked-for discards of party
ties and prepossessions.
But is the remedy which The Bulletin
suggests ( the vesting of the power of appoint-
ment of Judges in the Judges themselves)
the best devisable? It is open to grave
objections. In the first place, it would be
unfair to the appointing Judges, conferring
upon them a responsibility few would wel-
come. Then it would open an obvious road
to favoritism and wire-pulling, tend to make
the Benches close corporations and encour-
age in aspirants the habit of subservience to
the foibles of the Judges holding this great
privilege in their hands. As a natural corol-
lary it would discourage independence of
ideas and outlook and strength of character
—very desirable qualities in any Judge.
May I suggest that a better scheme would
be to entrust the power (and other very
important powers) to what may be called
a Council of State, having a continuous exist-
ence and being, as nearly as it is possible
to make it, independent of politics and poli-
ticians? This council, as I vision it, con-
stituted for a State (with appropriate modi-
fications for the Federal arena), would con-
sist of the Governor, the Chief Justice and
the senior puisne Judge (and possibly a
third), the Premier of the day (in defer-
ence to his office), the President of the Leg.
Council and Speaker of the Assembly. The
last three would be politicians, it is true, but
two of them at least, being in positions of
dignity and some independence, would gener-
ally be of the less virulent type. Two mdre
would be named by the University Senate,
and another useful member of the council
might be nominated by the Judges from the
available retired Judges and lawyers of long
experience and good standing. All spokes-
men for political organisations, employer
and worker unions, and even commercial and
financial associations, should be made to
clearly understand that their interests would
not be in need of “representation.” Here
we might have a responsible, competent body,
almost automatically working and practically
independent of popular election, “platforms,’'
“movements,” propaganda and the rest of the
vicious excrescences upon democracy.
cSuch a council should have other valuable
functions and help to relieve very elevated
officials of them: such as the appointments
to all judicial offices, of High Commissioners,
Agents-General (hitherto the perquisite of
friendly, derelict or inconvenient politicians
of the party or from the enemy’s camp), and
all heads of important State departments.
Lastly, there would be the duty of advising
an embarrassed Governor in his hour of diffi-
culty or indecision. That the Governor
should automatically “follow the advice of
his responsible Ministers” in all things has
become one of the shibboleths engrafted upon
democracy which badly need casting into
the melting pot.
Is the idea too utopian to make a prac-
tical fight for?
4
The Pursuit of Happiness.
The latest project of the ebullient H. G.
Wells is a world-wide youth movement to
be called the “X” Society. Its aims are to
“establish bodies to control money and
credit, labor (including the suppression of
slavery and manufacture of weapons, etc.)
and transport (including population move-
ments).” It will also seek a world-wide
minimum standard of education and ele-
mentary social rights, such as the pursuit of
happiness, whose “ultimate control can now
and should be a worlcl-wide affair.”
The author of “Kipps” always was fond of
large and amorphous schemes, and this is
one of them. If he knows how to achieve
happiness as an end of Government
activity he has solved the chief riddle of
human nature. Napoleon was happy when
he was plunging Europe into bloodshed, but
it is doubtful whether the instruments of
his happiness all felt the same as lie did
about it. Lenin also found happiness in
moulding a nation to his preconceived idea
of what it should be—much as a sculptor
moulds clay into an Aphrodite. The sculp-
tor doesn’t consult the wishes of the clay
any more than Lenin did those of the Rus-
sians. Some people find delight in con-
templation and some in manipulation. Jones
likes looking at gum-trees, but his next-door
neighbor Brown likes chopping them down;
and Wells’s Government will have some
trouble choosing between them.
That lie anticipates difficulty is shown by
the fact that he suggests a militant wing
to oppose “in every way possible” Govern-
ments which refuse to accept the “X”
Society’s standards. Well, there is no need
for the eminent author to bother about a
new society, because the Communists are
already in existence. The other night, four
Labor delegates returned from Russia spoke
in Melbourne on the happiness of Russia,
where, to quote one of them, “there is no
envy, hatred, jealousy and meanness such
as there is in bourgeois society.” The
enthusiasm with which this pleasant picture
was received left no doubt as to what the
Communists assembled considered the cor-
rect recipe for the pursuit of happiness.
All these universal schemes boil down to
the old formula, the greatest happiness for
the greatest number. And, as far as the
world has ever got, that means an infinite
amount of ragtime, because more people
like ragtime than Beethoven.
4
Salvation by Paper.
Before the British Association Professor
Bellerby, of Liverpool, has made an address
which has caused a stir in England. “In-
flation,” he says, “is the remedy for the
present world-difficulties”; what we need is
to put notes and notes and more notes into
spendthrifts’ pockets and send them rushing
to the counters to buy.
It is no use snorting “Inflation!” and
letting it go at that. Inflation is capable
of giving the world immediate relief from
some of its troubles. It has given us in
Australia some relief. So far as the primary
industries are concerned we have depreci-
ated our £ about one-fourth. Exporters
are in consequence receiving on the basis
that our £ is worth only 16/-, and are paying
on the basis that it is worth 20/-. This
always happens at the beginning of inflation.
But it only lasts until the trick is found
out.
If the Commonwealth Bank set its print-
ing presses running hot and invited the
spendthrifts of the community to come in
and help themselves from the pile on the
counter, certainly business would be very
brisk that day. But, obviously, there would
be nothing to represent the notes: the bank
would hold no assets against them. Prices
would go up all right, simply because the
currency would be watered down. When
the hard-up milkman v. begins to drown his
goods, provided he does it with reasonable
care he gets the same price for the adul-
terated product as he did for the unadul-
terated. But as soon as the customer finds
out that the milk isn’t worth what it used
to be, he refuses to pay the old price—
he wants more for his money. No doubt
you could bluff the working men of this
country by note-inflation for a few months.
But in the course of time they would dis-
cover that the pay wasn’t doing as much as
it used to, and they would very rightly
demand and get more. Then the bene-
fits of inflation would be cancelled, so
far as the primary producers and other
bosses were concerned; and there would
have to be more inflation. So the dog
would continue to chase its tail.
There is no shortage of currency in Aus-
tralia or America or anywhere else. Very
little payment, after all, is done with
notes: nine-tenths of it is done with
cheques. Bank deposits (and bank credits)
are the chief currency supply of every
modem country; and there is no shortage
of bank deposits. On the contrary, they are
in excessive supply: if they weren’t, banks
would pay more for them. What. is in
short supply is confidence; . and that is why
people pile up bank deposits instead of in-
vesting their money in some enterprise or
other. They will, moreover, go on doing it
so long as the world is kept on tenterhooks
by its Professor Bellerbys. You can get
your spendthrifts easily enough if you
establish confidence: Australia knows that
from past experience.
The NeAv Australia Experiment.
From T. Martyn, one of the few originals
left on the New Australia settlement in
Paraguay (S. America), to which William
Lane led them 40 years ago:—
In the “Soap-box” page (B. 13/4/’32)
an inquirer was told that Communism isn t
of necessity actively godless, and it was
added that New Australia, Australia’s one
great experiment in practical Communism,
did not prohibit religious exercises. That is
quite true: but I never heard of there
being any religious exercises to interfere
with. William Lane was, however, a fan-
atic on prohibition. When a man was
recruited he was not asked about his re-
ligious beliefs. If he was sound in wind
and limb, was known to be of good charac-
ter, looked as though he could do a* day’s
work for six days a week and, most essen-
tial, was financially sound, then he was
booked for the Promised Land—always pro-
vided he agreed to stop on the water waggon.
With the pioneers in Paraguay Sunday was
a day of rest, but not a day of religion. The
male experimenters spent the day in won-
dering how it was all going to end, and
wishing they had “half a dollar”, (Austra-
lian) and that the nearest can a (Para-
guayan whisky) depot wasn’t so far off.
Had the depot been nearer many a one
would have pawned a precious pair of pants
to get a litro of forgetfulness, and chanced
W. L. coming to meet them with a revolver
when they returned from their razzle. The
ladies spent their morning furbishing up their
old frocks for the evening social song-and-
dance to Pogson’s band, opening with “The
New Australia Anthem” and closing with
a chapter from Karl Marx.
No, the suppression or non-suppression of
religion had nothing to do with the debacle.
The sole cause was human nature; Com-
munism will never come till human nature
sprouts wings. You may get a military
despotism masquerading as Communism, but
the real, genuine thing on a large scale is
impossible.
♦
The Nymboicla Scheme.
Dear Bulletin, —Mr. J. A. J. Hunter (B.
7/9/’32) gives all the credit for the success
of the Nymboida hydro-electric scheme to
Dr. Earle Page. Anyone acquainted with
the history of that enterprise would not fall
into such an error. Dr. Page certainly
helped largely, and on his return from
America preached the benefits of electricity
for the district. But he advocated the im-
possible Clarence Gorge scheme (a pro-
posal involving millions, of course);
it fell to the old Cangai mining engineer
(W, J. Mulligan) to conceive something
practical (Nymboida), and to the late A. J.
Pollack, M.L.A., to bring it to birth Inci-
dentally, the strenuous work of Mr. Pol-
lack—largely unpaid—contributed to his
early passing. Amongst others who nursed
the baby were manager Wilton and chair-
man Walter Fitzgerald, the latter with his
own cash when things were critical in the
early stages. —Yours, Nymboy.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP * £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 O
DITCctOTS *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Diamond Engagement Rings
£25
£3O
£2O
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed fiuest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE.
116 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Ex-Premier Bavin did a generous thing
the other day. Hearing that Dunn, the
editor of the “Labor Daily,” lay dying, he
visited the house of his old opponent and
talked with him as a brother-mortal who
had been in the Valley of the Shadow him-
self. The Government also showed good
feeling; it sent Dunningham, the Minister
of Labor, to the funeral, and Bavin’s Minis-
ter Ryan went, too. Lang, who has a mort-
gage of £13,700 over the “Labor Daily,”
was not present. He had devoted the day
of his editor’s death to slinging mud at
Stevens, and perhaps it had exhausted him.
Or perhaps he has no more magnanimity
or sense of the fitness of things than his
prize bull.
N.S.Vv.’s nominee Leg. Council has
acquired another 17 members, and has lost
(by resignation) one of the two ladies
appointed to it in Lang’s time —she figured
on the official list as “No. 36: Green, The
Hon. C. E.” That makes 122, or 20 more
1 ban the number of Leg. Councillors in
Victoria (34), Westralia (30), South Aus.
(20) and Tasmania (18) put together. Even
when there were a mere 107 or 108 members,
the place was overcrowded and the atmo-
sphere vile, especially when —as happened
during the debates on Lang’s Tax on Mort-
gages Bill—it was impregnated with the odor
of rum. Navigation is also apt to be dan-
gerous on hot nights. Reform is necessary
if only to save conscientious elder states-
men from being poisoned by bad air or
knocked on the head with carelessly-brand
ished bottles.
The lady M.L.C. resigned, it seems,
because she felt that she could do no good
for “the workers” by remaining in the
silly old Chamber. Still, she will always
have the satisfaction of knowing that, by her
vote on the tin-hare legislation, she helped
to fill the pockets of Judge Swindell and
other “workers” engaged in a mortal struggle
with capitalism.
The paper over which Lang took a mort-
gage of £13,700, at 2 p.c. more than his flat
rate for “capitalists,” wept at the advent
of “Black Thursday in the State public
service—the first pay-day under the ruth-
less basic-wage cut. of 12s. 6d. a week.”
Still the public servants got their money.
When Lang’s Black Thursday arrived thou-
"Rev. Harold Davidson, rector of Stiff key, lias
been raising funds by exhibiting himself in a barrel
at Blackpool, charging tuppence a peep.”
The Stifflcey innovation is commended to
“stiff” parties.
sands of them didn’t get a cent. And in
a week or two pay would have stopped alto-
gether if Lang hadn’t implored the Common-
wealth to come to his assistance —which it.
did on his giving a pledge (worthless, of
course) that he would not default again.
The bill abolishing the Forestry Board
and the Prickly-Pear Commission is having
a rough passage through Queensland’s one-
liouse Parliament. Bending to the storm of
opposition, Percy Pease, the Minister, with-
drew the clause depriving the members of
both bodies of their compensation rights:
but when delay was sought he said to
Moore’s party, “You’ll do what we tell you
to-day.” A stonewall followed, and then
Taylor, the Labor member for Enoggera,
spoke contemptuously of Pease’s firstborn,
describing it as a mean bit of legislation.
This was an unpleasant reminder of the
mutinies with which Scullin, Hogan and
Hill had to contend, but Forgan Smith tried
to look as if he were enjoying it.
The Australian Governments, Federal and
State, have borrowed £78,420,000 from the
Commonwealth Bank. Their total bank
overdrafts are set down at £82,650,000. The
Commonwealth Bank didn’t want to wolf
an immoderate proportion of this floating
debt, but there was very little competition
anywhere else. Yet some U.A.P. herbs at
Canberra are greatly agitated because, with
the cost of living steadily declining, it is
proposed to reduce old-age pensions to the
1920 rate (which was ss. a week more than
the 1910-16 rate) so that the estimated de-
ficit of 20 millions may be reduced by a
million or so. The herbs would rather lean
on the reluctant banks for the million or so
—'and the rest —and take the risk of a situa-
tion arising in which it would be impossible
to pay pensions even at the 1910-16 rate,
than endanger their precious seats.
The All-Austra-
lian Council of
Trade Unions will
have a meeting
soon to consider
various plans for
putting Australia
right. One, pro-
posed by the Cen-
tral Council of the
Miners’ Federa-
tion, is for a gen-
eral strike. An-
other, endorsed by
the Sydney Labor
Council, favors a
35-hour week and
a 25 p.c. increase
in all wages. This
will solve all his
troubles for the
wheat-farmer, who
has to depend upon
a foreign market.
He can just curl
up and die.
No doubt there
has been a con-
siderable holding
back of goods for
import and ex-
port—the former
while Langism
darkened the Aus-
tralian outlook and
the latter in tlhe
hope that prices
will improve over-
seas. Ev.cn so, the
figures for July
don’t look well.
Imports of mer-
chandise were
about equal to ex-
ports, and there
was practically
nothing left to pay the monthly bill for
interest on the overseas debt —nothing, that
is, except the old poisonous lOU. In 1926-27
Australia bought £164,717,000 worth of
stuff abroad and in the process added
£54,800,000 to its foreign debt. There are
people who are willing that the Lyons
Ministry should do the same thing, and will
give three cheers for any kind of reduced
tariff.
The Country party’s Publicity Bureau do
votes a leaflet to “a bitter, misleading
biassed, unfair effusion” in The Bulletin
attacking Earle Page. Says the incoherent
leaflet:—
Such attacks are aimed, not merely at the political
assassination of the individual, but at every country
leader and every countryman who has the courage
to state the news of the rural populace.
There are generals who have, led their
armies to disaster: what has happened to
Labor in N. S. Wales is a case in point.
Yet when the friends of a party see it being
led to disaster they mustn’t say a word.
They must stand by and see the party
smashed, the leader being greater than the
party. That, anyway, is what the Country
Party’s Publicity Bureau says, from which
it is evident that the Country party needs a
new Publicity Bureau as well as a less tact-
less, inept, wasteful and blundering Federal
leader.
N.S.W. Assistant-Treasurer Spooner in
his Relief Bill proposes to inflict on the
farmers yet another board. Excess liabilities
over the assessed value of a man’s assets
are to be suspended, free of interest, for
three years, and the board (to consist of a
director and representatives of the farmers
and their creditors) will finance the
planting and harvesting of the crops. Re-
ceivers—“there may be any number of them,”
Spooner says—will be selected from resi-
dents of the district, who will take control
of all income and outgo, the latter including
the remuneration of the farmer and ais
family. Many a farmer would prefer to be
made decently bankrupt to having liis affairs
dictated to him by some local man. Assist-
ance to the farmer should be a matter of
ordinary legislation, with the usual right of
appeal to the Courts.
Vic. Leg. Assembly will shortly consider
a bill to reduce juries to nine and to permit
of majority verdicts, except in the case of
a capital offence. Attorney-General Men-
zies, who is responsible for the measure, has
learnt from experience that there is no
magic in the number 12.
In their efforts to make a bad position a
bit better Lyons and Latham are getting no
help from popular preachers and the like.
Several well-advertised parsons have asserted
that it is “a shame” to reduce old-age pen-
sions to the 1920 rate, though they suggest
no way of preventing the reduction without
bailing up the banks. And the announcement
that 50-odd foreign Bolshies had been sent
back to their own countries moved the Angli-
can “Church Standard” to some horrified
remarks about “creating a dangerous prece-
dent” and “reviving Star Chamber methods.”
Canada, South Africa and the U.S.A. deport
alien Red Revolutionaries and make no
bones about it. Maoriland even shows the
door to Australian Reds—for example, the
“The Central Council of the Miners’ Federation has decided in favor of
a general strike against wage cuts, beginning on September 19.”
INMATE (to strike promoter): “Did you win your last strike?”
“No"
“Unions got any funds?”
“No.”
“Any chance of their getting the dole?”
“No.”
“Come inside!”
“seaman”: Gyons, who is wanted by the New-
castle police in connection with iho Tighe’s
Hill riot. Why should poor old Australia
always be the mug 7
In Soviet Russia the execution of the citi-
. zen who misappropriates liis own victuals
has grown into a habit. All victuals belong
to the State, and the State exports victuals
at . a great rate in order to buy machinery
for its wonderful Five-year Plan. If there
isn’t enough money to pay for the machinery,
that proves that hungry peasants have been
dishonestly , eating the socialistic victuals,
and death is called for. A chronic difficulty
about the machinery is that much of it goes
to wreck in the hands of “comrades” who
may be good Bolsheviks but are dashed
poor artificers. Now and then there is a
trial, and dreadful revelations are made by
“comrades,” who own that they were hired
by King George in person to be machinery-
wreckers. They do good service in persuad-
ing the ignorant masses that the Bolsheviks
are a. highly intelligent crew, only the capi-
talistic Powers are in continual conspiracy
against them.
The lot of the professional .soldier is hard
in Australia to-day. With clouds gathering
again in .Europe and East Asia, it might be
thought that an effort would be made to
retain the services of a man like Brand, but
the idea still prevails 'that the only indispen-
sable persons in the Defence Department are
clerks. Brand being 59 (Foch was general-
issimo at 74) has reached the age limit for
a brigadier, and cannot be kept on unless
he is promoted to the rank of major-general,
as he richly deserves to be. There are only
two major-generals on the strength, Brudi'e
and Dodds. These, Pearce says, are ample
for the requirements of 25,000 militia, so
Brand must go into the discard after 30
years as a professional soldier and distin-
guished service in two wars. As a military
administrator George Pearce is the best car-
penter we ever had.
Anticipating criticism, the Argyles inti-
mated as soon as Vic. Assembly resumed
that a bill would be submitted to reorganise
the Mines Department and give it separate
control under a separate head, presumably
Raragwauath, Director of Geological Kur-
vey. With a bit of a revival in gold-mining
there was growling in mining districts at
having a member for Melb. East (Jones) as
Minister, and the Sec. for Public Works
(Whitehead) as permanent head.
It will be weeks before Vic. Assembly
has a full House. Solly and Beard-
more died before they had been sworn in
and ex-Premier Hogan is not expected to
return from abroad until the second week
in October. H'e will then be a lonely back-
bencher on the Opposition side. But Jack
Murray was a solitary back-bencher in
the latter part of 1906, after he had left the
Bent Government, and he became Premier in
January, 1909.
The Argyles (Vic.) have drafted a bill
making it incumbent on motorists to take
out third-party insurance. It is desired,
among other things, to protect public hos-
pitals from loss of money through free treat-
ment of motor-accident cases. Injured per-
sons taken to public hospitals who recover
damages under the insurance scheme will
have to pay reasonable sums to the institu-
tions, which are worse off than ever they
were.
Most people object to Australia’s sutf-
plusage of legislatures, but the fact is
there is plenty of work for them if they
would only do it. In one week, in Sydney
alone—
Judge Curlewis said: “A young woman cannot
get an order for 7s. 6d. a week against a man
without corroboration, yet a man can be sent to
gaol for an alleged offence against a female without
corroboration. The law should be altered.”
The S.M. at the Central Police Court said: “The
law is crying out for amendment in the case of
agreements entered into between parties under the
hire-purchase system.”
The chairman of directors of Mangrovite Belting,
Ltd., said: “Until our industrial courts and laws are
abolished we cannot expect regular employment to
increase. If we were allowed to work three eight-
hour shifts, as they do in other countries, we could
have given work to three times the number of
employees.”
Several people, including the leader of the A.L.E.
in the Council, wrote that the law which allows the
dead to be libelled with impunity should be altered.
There were also complaints about the laws
governing policeman-bashing, speeding in
cars and half a dozen more. The trouble is
that Parliaments don’t bother about these
urgent matters.
The Commonwealth, in addition to em-
ploying Arbitration Judges who are not fully
occupied, maintains a superfluous Public
Service Arbitrator. He is always appointed
from the public service, and the present
incumbent was asked by one of the unions to
rule that hundreds of messengers for whom
there arc no adult jobs vacant or likely to
be should get the basic wage, £lB2 p.a.—
designed for man, wife and three children —
at 21. He ruled accordingly:—
I have decided to approve of the application with
retrospective effect to March 17. Parliament, if it
thinks fit to depart from the principle of paying the
service basic wage to adult males, will disallow my
determination.
Parliament has disallowed it. The Govern-
ment ascertained that acceptance of “my
determination” would cost the country fully
£750,000 in five years, for during that period
2900 messengers would reach 21 and not
half of them could be “absorbed.” It in-
dulgently decided to keep the messengers on
at £136 p.a., the wage for 20-year-olds. Then
there were roars from the Scullinaries and
the Gangsters, both factions protesting that,
whatever the state of the finances, payment
of the. five-unit wage to youths of 21 for
boys’ work was a “Gabor principle.” Then
it is a very idiotic “Gabor principle.”
“Simultaneously with a parade of 200,000 Steel
Helmets, Germany is insisting on ‘equality in arma-
ments.’”
“I haf Liberty, yoost like you. Now I
demand Equality.”
“And Fraternity?”
“Ve’ll talk about dot some odder time.”


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
A START, ANYWAY.
“See that Bliggins woman over there? She buys all her dresses on the instalment
plan!”
"I wondered what she was wearing. That’s the first instalment of a new one she’s
got on.”
“Norbell”: Australian national anthems?
A score or more are available, ranging
from Lardelli’s “Star-bespangled Cross of
Australia” to the “O Favored Isle” of
C. J. Dennis. When the present King and
Dueen were here to open the first Federal Par-
liament, the late George Musgrove was “com-
manded” to arrange a State concert. It was
given on May 9, 1901, in the Exhibition Build-
ing. Melb. The star item of a scrupulously
“select” programme was an anthem. “Aus-
tralia,” which was written and composed by
Charles Kenningham, the fine tenor of comic
opera. This w r as sung, vide programme, by
“Madame Nellie Stewart,” the only time
Australia heard Sweet Nell styled “Madame.”
I should think this anthem, if it could be
dug up anywhere, would be well in the
running.
“Dryasdust”: Sydney’s Mitchell Library
has received from Mrs. Wardlc, of Stafford-
shire, a gift of genuine historical interest, in
the form of a petition sent in 1852 to the
British Government by the settlers in South
Australia, asking for the discontinuance of
the transportation of convicts to Van
Diemen’s Land. The petition is especially
valuable in that it contains the signatures of
5700 South Australian settlers with their
addresses and occupations. It thus consti-
tutes a record which, in days when direc-
tories were not published, could never have
been otherwise obtained. The agitation must
have borne good fruit, for the last convict
ship was dispatched to Van Diemen’s Land
that same year, though there is no record
that the petition was ever actually presented.
Four years later, in 1856, the name of the
Speck was changed to Tasmania.
“Centurion”: Siam wasn’t the only non-
European nation to fling its weight behind
the Allies in the Great War. The Negus
of Abyssinia dispatched some 500 of his
troops to the assistance of Britain and
France. It wasn’t his fault that they never
got further than Port Said, where they were
detained until the Armistice allowed them
to be sent, back without anyone being
offended. For the most part they were con-
fined in a compound, though at certain hours
they were allowed out. Their varied collec-
tion of arms was taken from them when
they landed, but somehow the Heads forgot
to issue them with. new. ones. Yet they
made pretty play with the long stick every
man carried on the not infrequent occasions
when these Christians of the Church of
Ethiopia fell foul of the Gyppd Moslems.
* :|: * *
“Bert the Carpenter” : An Adelaide busi-
ness man who runs a chain of shops became
alarmed when two armed bandits held up
and robbed a woman cashier and her youth-
ful male escort as they were on their way
to the bank, and decided to see if his assis-
tants could use the “autom'atic pistols” .with
which every shop was equipped. He got
me to fix up a stou.t wooden butt four
feet square, and with this in the back of
his car we made a tour of the suburbs. At
every shop the target was propped against a
wall, and each assistant was told to stand
close to it and let the pistol off. One weapon
proved so rusty that it wouldn’t work at
all, while another jam bed at every shot
through the cartridges swelling out. Some
of the lads couldn’t hit the bull (a foot in
diameter) at a. range of six feet, and one
elderly man missed the butt altogether. In
one shop they had an old .44 revolver instead
of a modern pistol, and the powder had so
deteriorated that the bullets bounced
off the pine. Now, however, I have rigged
up a miniature range in tine basement of
the head warehouse, and here every assist-
ant is to practise. Of course all the lads
weren’t mugs: one of them hit a bull the
size of a shilling with six shots out of
seven at a range of 10 feet, and another
put all his shots within an inch of one
another at the target’s centre. But these
were the bright exceptions.
“Monsoon”: A cable published the other
day apropos the woes of Scottish distillers
said that a gallon of whisky costs only “s.
6d. to produce, but when the excise duty of
725. 6d. is added it is unlikely to sell readily.
I suppose this supplies one explanation of
the rapid increase in popular favor of Aus-
tralian wanes in the TJ.K. It seems from
the figures quoted that, but for the excise,
whisky might be sold at a shilling or two a
pint bottle in the U.lv. and return a handsome
profit to “the trade” in all its branches.
It sounds unbelievable, but I suppose it is
so. Forty years ago in London, as I remem-
ber, gin was the cheapest spirit. You could
obtain that for 2s. a bottle over the retailer’s
counter; schnapps cost 2s. 6d., and whisky
from 3s. 6d. And there were excise taxes
then, though of course they were only a frac-
tion of the present staggering imposts.
Verily, the best friends of the temperance
movement, when all is said and done, have
not been the Father Mathews and. the Wilfrid
Lawsons, but the Chancellors of the Ex-
chequer.
“F.S.”: “The Gaffer” (B. 31/8/’32) is
right in saying that it is impossible to
prove that climate is responsible for the
production of Bradmans or any other similar
phenomena. The compelling force is tradi-
tion. How a tradition is started it is diffi-
cult to say—probably there is an exceptional
individual or several individuals. The prin-
ciple applies in all directions. In the great
days of Greek sculpture it. was practically
impossible to produce really bad sculpture.
THEY DO SEEM LIKE THAT SOMETIMES.
SANDY (after one bite oj his first oyster patty ): “Losh! Something’s died in ma boon!”
In the great days of Gothic it was prac-
tically impossible to build a really ugly
church or an ungainly piece of furniture. As
the tradition loses its force through altered
circumstances new traditions supplant it.
The Gothic tradition in France lias died
out and French architecture and art are
both ugly. It was once impossible for a
Japanese craftsman to produce, an ugly kit-
chen utensil. The necessity of building up
a foreign export trade has made it impos-
sible for him to produce anything beautiful.
There is a tradition in Australia of giant
batsmen and great singers, and w r e seem to
find no difficulty in producing them. A
tradition implies standards and every poten-
tial great batsman and singer strives to rise
to them.
"Pawang”: The medical profession has
discovered a new disease, radio neurasthenia.
Women are the worst sufferers. When the
wife has seen hubby off
to the office she turns on
the wireless and dot's her
housework, or whatever
she has to do, to the con-
tinuous booming of the
radio. If her supply of
noise is temporarily cut
off at the meter she is
liable to become depressed
or even hysterical, much
as any other addict de-
prived of her opiate. One
victim in Melbourne had
to be sent to a hospital,
wiiere an unsuccessful at-
tempt was made to wean
her gradually from her
obsession. Another kind
of radio neurotic is th-
person who has no wire-
less set but cannot escape
his next-door neighbor’s.
Able to hear a noise but
unable to make anything
intelligible out of it, he
is obliged to abandon
whatever else he is doing
and strain every nerve to
catch the sounds coming
through the wall or dowm
the chimney. The conse-
quence is that he gets a
maniacal hatred of broad-
casting in all its mani-
festations. When the
disease becomes sufficiently widespread there
will probablv be legislation against the cause,
as in the case of smallpox and diphtheria.
“Hillite”: A Sydney Grammar School
master told the Primary ' Schools Education
Conference last week that there was “no
such thing as an Australian accent : though
from the criticisms one would gather that
every Australian could be distinguished by a
definite nasality and by a slurring of sounds.”
We have an accent. It extends from Perth
to Brisbane, and has come to be recognised
all over the world since the war; but it
has nothing to do with nasality, and we
don’t slur any more than the English. We
are identified overseas, by our vowels. I was
sent from Australia to an English public
school as a small boy. and \vithin half an
hour had a horde of persecutors leaping
round me screaming “Oi sy!” That was how
my way of pronouncing “I say” sounded
to them. A kindly master tried to make a
quick change in my “a’s,” but it was no good :
to my ears he pronounced his exactly as I
did. All possessors of accents are like that;
their pronunciation seems normal to them.
I lost my Australian accent after some
years at school, and when I came home my
friends’ pronunciations sounded for a while,
to me as mine had sounded to the English
boys. Now I notice nothing—which means,
of course, that I have got my accent back
again. A remarkable thing about our accent
is that all classes have it; Judges, school-
masters and university professors equally
with the uneducated. That is the verdict
of all who have visited us, and the whole
world can’t be wrong.
* * * *
“ Jeames”: Of course “Shrewsbury” is
right (B. 7/9/’32) in saying that all
fashions in speech are not dictated by snob-
bery, inverted or otherwise, though snob-
bery is the inspiration of the ones I men-
tioned. There is another important group,
composed of expressions which appear for no
apparent reason whatsoever, flourish luxuri-
antly for a while, and then fall dead as
suddenly and inexplicably as they came to
life. “Slogan” really means the warcry of
a Scottish clan. Some ass applied it to
advertising a few years ago, and soon every-
body with a line in haberdashery or small-
goods to get rid of had to have his “slogan.”
Woodrow Wilson first talked of applying
the “acid test” to a situation at Versailles.
It caught on among the nitwits, and thou-
sands began submitting everything, from the
price of beer in Senegambia to the existence
of the Deity, to “acid tests.” “Cross-section”
is the vogue phrase of the moment. A
critic in the departed London “Spectator”
made use of it first in its present sense.
Soon all the younger London writers were
cross-sectioning like mad. It had nearly
gone out of fashion in England when it
arrived here, via the TJ.S.A. Local press
stylists never talk of a social set or group,
which is plain English, but of a “cross-
section of society,” which is as near to being
meaningless as not to matter.
“Lord Luvus”: It is curious how moral
attitudes remain unchanged while circum-
stances alter their manifestations. A gener-
ation ago good churchgoing Nonconformists
had a horror of all dancing. Then the ava-
lanche of jazz arrived and swept even their
own young people into the dance halls. The
older generation refused to follow them, but
nevertheless they could not escape the influ-
ence of the new tarantellism. The other
night I looked in at a dance palais and it
was full of elderly couples solemnly dancing
the quadrille, the polka and the Alberts.
They were doing it in a religious spirit to
show the younger generation that one could
dance and yet remain holy. An old chap
of 65 —a deacon of his church —told me that
lie danced three nights a week and found it
spiritually refreshing. He danced with his
own wife and with other men’s wives and
woke up next day with a bright eye and in
rare fettle for his business. But he didn’t
hold with jazz and never would. It was in
the same category as Communism.
* * * s|:
“Stung”: The “Labor Daily,” in a recent
attack on capitalistic Sydney restaurateurs
who “serve a bare five middle-sized .straw-
berries with cream” at an exorbitant price,
said :
Strawberries are being sold on street barrows all
over the city at forty for sixpence.
The “Labor Daily” scribe has been visit-
ing the markets. I’ll wager he didn’t try to
buy 40 strawberries for sixpence. I did, and,
like many another, only realised the disas-
trous falsity of my economy after I had squan-
dered a further eightpence on cream and
reached home. The pannier which was sup-
posed to contain the 40 strawberries pro-
duced a most realistic effect as of rich, ripe
fruit bursting, by reason of the careless
largesse ef the packer, through a crevice
near the bottom. The fact is there were two
or three wedged artfully against the crevice
and eight or nine at the top; the rest was
straw. Perfectly good straw, but useless
as a fruit course to be consumed with
cream. The workers on me of this ingeni-
ous extension of the common trick of “top-
ping” were a hard-faced pair who seemed
to be doing a roaring trade among
misguided proletarians. They are at it still,
no doubt, and, unless I have under-estimated
their cleverness and initiative, they have
now got that “Labor Daily” par. stuck up
in a prominent position as an advertisement
of their scorn of capitalistic methods.
WANTED—A NATIONAL ANTHEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What ho! My tuneful sons of bright Apollo,
Builders of ballads, bardic brotherhood,
Ye who the Muses’ tracks are fain to
follow
And catch them, too, sometimes (/ never
could)
Where the shy brook purls through the
sheltered hollow,
And waking Spring makes verdant mead
or wood
Fit setting for a lyrical seance,
What ho! My lilting minstrels —here’s
your chance!
Songs ye have sung a-melting and a-many,
Staves full of melody and tears and fire,
But where’s the Austral Anthem worth a
penny
To swell aloft from some full-throated
choir
And stir men’s blood? Strange that there
isn’t, any.
They’re feeble echoes, all, or duds entire
That: cut no ice. We want, to lift on high,
Words that the world will not. let lightly die.
Hoick down your harps, my brothers, from
the willows
Or from the ghostly gums where long
they’ve hung!
Seek, an ye list, afflatus by the billows,
Or roam among the rocks where spin-
drift’s flung ;
Or haply in a hammock, propped with
pillows.
You’ll find iambics are the easiest strung.
Stick to your desks or wander through the
woods;
We only need the goods, the dinkum goods.
Love, war and Nature all are themes en-
thralling
Wherewith to thrill or charm the listening
ear;
And now and then there’s some excuse for
scrawling
A ragged rhyme on politics or beer.
But when Australia’s for an anthem calling
Hei’e’s truer scope for ringing notes and
clear.
What patriot soul .such summons disregards?
On to the clash of stanzas, on, ye bards 1
Hymn her, our land Arcadian and aureate,
Blending the tribute of your pride and
praise
In strains for all her loyal sons to glory at,
As France exulted in the Marseillaise.
And he who’s victor judged shall be our
Laureate
And round his blushing brows we’ll bind
the bays.
And. touching on the other guerdon due.
WeH —that will buy a butt of sherry, too.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Nikko” : My friend William asks me to
nominate him for tlie quick-thought stakes.
It was during the maritime strike in Auck-
land, some years ago, and William’s boss at
the Thames, urgently requiring a load of
bricks that no regular steamer would carry
ANOTHER RECORD.
"‘Beloved , It Is Morn!”
“Yes, darling. It’s more'n — more’n I can stand!”
in the troublous times, borrowed an ancient
fishing boat and sent William 40 miles up
to town to collect the goods. It had been
arranged that they were to be delivered at
an isolated jetty, which it was hoped the
strikers would overlook, and there William
and his boy assistant found them and began
to load them into the craft. Their task was
about half-completed when five roving
strike scouts espied them and came down
to investigate. “Start putting the bricks
back on the wharf,” hissed William as the
strikers descended upon them. “You can’t
unload that stuff here!” commanded the
leader. “Put it back on the boat and
hurry up!” William hurried. His load of
bricks was the only cargo that left the
port of Auckland for eight days.
“Turl”: The Melbourne debtor who tartly
alleged misuse of the King’s English against
a firm which was “surprised” that a long-
standing account had not been paid
(B. 7/9/’32) was something of a plagiarist.
The original retort stands to the credit or
otherwise of an Oxford professor, and enjoyed
an extensive currency at that scat of learn-
ing in my day. His wife, it was told, entered
his study hurriedly one morning and caught
him kissing the housemaid. The aggrieved
lady drew herself up majestically, quivering
with righteous indignation. “John, I am
.surprised,” at last she managed to gasp.
“No, my dear.” corrected the erring one
pedantically: “I am surprised, you are aston-
ished.” Whether the attempt to change the
subject and give it an academic turn availed
him is not known.
“D’hurst”: There’s an eccentric-looking
Sydney girl whom my friend “Garbo” Spot-
Lightte (known to all Sunday “Sun”
readers as a Society Beauty, B. Y. Thing,
Younger Set Leader, Prominent Charity
Organiser and Smart Cocktail-party Giver)
denounces as a limelight-chaser, I myself
have often seen this odd creature perform
such attention-riveting stunts as saunter-
ing out of a theatre smoking a cigarette, or
riding on the mudguard of a King’s Cross
'bus. Anything, for publicity seems to b -
her watchword. What Miss Spot-Lightte
doesn’t seem to drop to is that the object,
of, her scorn i-s really a standing criticism
of a typical Sunday “Sun” B.Y.T, Miss
“Garbo” and her friends, male and female,
entertain and faW-n on tin; press ladies, and
get themselves advertised in return. The
other lass is her own Society Section, so
to speak, and a very effective job she. makes
of if. She is somewhat eric’, a in her
methods; she might be called a reductio ad
absurdum of the others —if, .ndeed, it is
not a contradiction in terms to talk of re-
ducing the already absurd, to absurdity'.
That, no doubt, is her half-realised offence.
Certainly the sneers directed at her by some
of Sydney’s most persistent self-advertisers
are out of propo.rion to her harmless acti-
vities.
“Carabinier”: It is “Cross Belts” who
slips when he states that the Bth (Royal
Irish) Hussars are “the Cherry-pickers."
and not the lltli Hussars (B. 10/8/” !2).
The nickname is the best-known in the
British Army and in over 40 years of
close acquaintance with the regular forces
I have never heard its possession by
the 11th Hussars disputed. “Cross Belts”
gives no authorities for his statement.. I
can cite three to back up my correction:
“Our Regiments and Their Records” (1915) ,
“Her Majesty’s Army” (1S90) and “Regi-
mental Records of British Army” (1901).
As for the sobriquet “Cross Belts” borne by
the Bth (Royal Irish) Hussars, "C. 8.” falls
into another error when he says that this
distinction was gained through their cap-
turing a regiment of French cavalry in the
Peninsula. It was long before that, namely
at Saragossa, in 1710 (War of the Spanish
Succession), when the Hussars wiped out
a regiment of Spanish cavalry and souven-
ired their accoutrements. They carried these
till 1776, when they were transformed to
Light Dragoons. The honor was re-con-
ferred on the regiment in 1795 by George
111., when it was serving in Germany,
“as a special mark of royal favor.” The
Bth became Hussars in 1822.
“Clarence Cafeteria”: Melbourne police
are launching a crusade against the ladies
who read palms and
teacups in cafes, on the
ground that they trade
on the credulity of their
customers; but my ex-
perience is that their
alleged fortune-telling is
about as harmful as two
goes of apple-dumpling,
Their technique is. al-
ways the same, and
merely rests on a know-
ledge of human nature.
If you are a man they
will tell you that you
have always made a
success of life, despite
all evidence to the con-
trary ; that you are a
masterful person and
will have your way,
whatever happens.; that
whenever there has been
a check to your ambi-
tions you. have realised
you were aiming in the
wrong direction and
that your talents de-
manded different expres-
sion ; and finally that
your success will be
equally outstanding in
the future, until your
progress is stopped by
death, which, as indi-
cated by your life-line,
is an incredibly remote
contingency. If Con-
stable Busybody can
produce one citizen who
is any the worse for
hearing this stuff, I
shall be very much
astonished. As for trad-
ing on the credulity of
the public, the teacup-
readers are beaten hands
down at that game by
politicians, advert isin g
agents and moving-picture magnates.
“Pawang” : Believers in hanging who cal!
disbelievers maudlin sentimentalists belong
to a particular class of sentimentalist them-
selves. sentimentalism being defined as pas-
sion and emotion ungoverned by reason. If
“Binns” (B. 24/S/’32) believes hanging is a
deterrent to murder, he should explain why
it used not to be a deterrent to petty thiev-
ing. He may feel very superior about his
ability to shake hands with a hangman with-
out shuddering, but would be himself like to
do a job of hanging? If hangmen were selec-
ted from a telephone directory by a policeman
after the manner of jurymen I imagine that
even archbishops would begin to wonder
whether medieval barbarism wasn’t out of
place in an age which regards itself as
scientific.
“D.D.”: It is true that occasions have
arisen compelling the sheriff to draw the
bolt in default of obtaining the services
of a hangman. One American sheriff who
had to undergo this unpleasant ordeal was
Grover Cleveland; but the fact did not pre-
vent his becoming President of the United
States.
* * *
“M.G.S.”: “D.J.” (B. 10/8/’32) should
surely know that schoolmasters teach,
not what they like, but what they arc
told to teach, and the question of whether
their average age is 36, or 16 for that matter,
has no bearing on my assertion that edu-
cation is in the hands of the old people.
The education of a modern semi-literate
democracy, in any case, is not confined to
schools. In fact, the schools are having
a smaller and smaller part in it, the
larger part being taken by radio, the films
and the newspapers. Not only do our elders
control education but their grip is more
likely to increase than diminish, for bio-
logical reasons. In 1870 the birthrate in
England and Wales was 35.3 per 1000; in
1929, 16.3 per 1000. During the same period
the deathrate declined from 22.9 to
13.4 per thousand. This , means that there
are fewer young people and more old people.
"i '.Q.": The Social Credit theory
is an attempt to deal with economics mathe-
matically insterd of morally, but when any
theory which concerns our bread and
butter gets down into
the market-place it
invariably loses most
of its scientific quality.
I was at the meeting
in which the young
stalwarts of the Doug-
las theory replied, very
cleverly I thought, to
Prof. Copland's, de-
structive analysis in
Melbourne. Two' old
ladies were,knitting be-
hind me. They allowed
the analysis of the A
phis B theorem to pass
over their venerable
heads unheeded, but
whenever a speaker in-
dulged in flights of rhe-
toric or made sarcastic,
references to bankers
they dropped a stitch
and applauded vigor-
ously. During a pause
1 overheard the fol-
lowing dialogue—the
ladies were examining
the photo, of an Eng-
lish bank director in
a newspaper: “Pie
doesn't took like a
Jew.” “Oh, doesn’t ho V
Look at his nose/’
“I suppose you’re right.
And of course they
arc all .Jews, aren’t
they?” “Of course they
are—German Jews."
“Oh, arc they? I
always thought they
wore Russian .Tews,”
“John Hop”: London's police have held
up traffic in big thoroughfares for even less
important persons than a couple of shabby
children (B. 7/9/'32). A couple of years
ago the London illustrated papers were full
of a happening as interesting to the natura-
list as to the traffic expert. The King and
Queen were about to drive out from Buck-
ingham Palace: traffic had been suspended
and a big crowd, marshalled by police, stood
in orderly fashion on each side of the road.
A-wild duck which had hatched out a
brood in the ornamental water in Bucking-
ham Palace seized this particular moment
lo transfer her brood to the lake in the
Green Park just, opposite. She just walked
across the road and the family followed
in single file. The police opened out the
crowd opposite the gateway and gravely
ushered the mother and family through.
There were dozens of press photographers
present and as “news” the duck and her
following chased their Majesties right out of
the papers that day.
“Purl Two”: I note that the N.S.W.
Education Department has refused to admit
knitting to the manual curriculum. Further,
some Macquarie-strect pundit has advanced
the proposition that the teaching of knit-
ting or sewing to boys would tend to make
them effeminate. If the good medico had
seen as many hard-bitten cases who were ex-
pert sewsters —to use the old Scottish phrase
—and knitters as I have he might change
his opinion. In the Boer War I saw Mac-
donald's Highlanders advancing up the right
LOVE SET.
BILLY : “I believe he married, her because of the ripping
game she plays at tennis.”
MIS. B.: “H’m, she must be good at the marriage
service.”
bank of the Modder River. They were
swinging along, to the sound of the pipes,
with rifles slung, and two' men at least in
every : Section were knitting socks. To the
writer, in a mounted force,, one of them
explained later that the concentration took
one’s mind off the monotony of footslogging,
while the socks were always saleable, a
fact he proved by trading me two pairs ori
the nail for a bag of Boer tobacco I had
commandeered at Jacobsdal. Those “effemi-
nates” were regulars who had soldiered in
Egypt and India half their lives.
A FEW TO GO ON
WITH.
SON (watching wed-
ding): “Dad, what
are they throwing the
old shoes after them
for?”
FATHER: “Son, they
know the poor man
hasn’t got a soul of
his own any longer.”
“Inner Temple” : A Sydney critic referred
the other day to “the beautiful English
voices in ‘A Night Like This.’ ” They con-
sist of the Irish brogue of Tom Walls,
the Oxford bleats of Ralph Lynn and Claude
Hulbert, the throaty coster accent of Mary
Brougli, the outer-suburban diction of
Robertson Hare (he is to the life the kind
of Londoner who inhabits, say, Purley)
and the voice of Winifred Shotter, which
West Enders say has a Cockney inflection,
though I am bound to admit I have never
been able to spot it, any more than I have
the alleged Cockney note in Gladys Cooper’s
voice. The point of interest is that some
Australians —particularly those with an
anti-Hollywood complex—are ready to hail
every English voice as beautiful. Actually,
some of the loveliest voices on the screen
belong to Americans (what English star
has a speaking voice to touch Mary
Astor’s?), and a good many English movie
voices arc as bad as Greta Garbo’s. The
only film I have ever sat through in which
all the voices were English and virtually per-
fect was Paramount’s “Aren’t We All?” My
idea of a perfect English voice is the kind
you hear when one of the leaders of the
London bar, such as Birkett, is addressing in
court; and that is the standard of the articu-
lation in “Aren’t We All?”
"Oxmead”: Senate-President Lynch has
his full share of Irish fluency. The first
time I ever heard him speak
was over 30 years ago, before
lie got into Parliament; it was
at a Hibernian meeting in Kal-
goorlic where the wrongs of
Erin were under discussion.
Paddy provided some of the
fireworks, which crackled all
the more merrily after a cold
but bitterly incisive speech
from the late Hugli Mahon.
In his earlier years as a legis-
lator Lynch was the subject of
many friendly gibes on account
of liis proficiency as a manu-
facturer of Irish “bulls,” and
he certainly achieved one or
two that would have been no
discredit to Boyle Roche. But
he was rather sensitive about
this characteristic. He will
be all the better a President
'for having always set his face
sternly against unparliamen-
tary words. When the con-
scription turmoil was on,
Lynch addressed a meeting at
Boulder in the face of bitter
hostility. The rowdiness and
disorder culminated in some
open brawling, and there were
police prosecutions as the up-
shot. One of the accused
sought to extenuate his
offence by asserting that the
Senator had referred to him
as a “mongrel,” which brought
a hot disclaimer from Paddy
—“he had never used such a
detestable word in his life.”
A man who has been in poli-
tics for a quarter of a cen-
tury and never applied this
measure of disparagement to
his detractors, even in the
heat of the moment, hasn't
much to reproach himself with.
“Sandy Ego”: The sunburned old battler
sitting in the shade of Henry Lawson’s
statue in Sydney Domain was critical. “The
knot’s all right, and the dorg looks like. a
kelpie, but Lawson’s mate —-the cove siftin'
down smokin’ a pipe—hasn’t any hobnails
in the soles of his boots. An’ they’re near-
new. too. No ‘traveller’ ’d forget a thing
like that.”
THE LONG BEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In reply to a question on railway freight rates,
the .Minister for the Interior said that 20 tons of
beer were dispatched from Melbourne to Kalgoorlie
weekly.”
The men who linked the West and East
And spanned the desert spaces
Civilisation’s boons increased
In various inland places.
They brought home comforts, so to speak.
To thirsty thousands surely.
With twenty tons of beer a week
The patient goods trains crawl and creak
From Melbourne to Kalgoorlie.
Vic.’s pleasant hills and dales across
They haul their barrelled amber ;
They puff through pastoral South Aus.
And up the ranges clamber.
Where Port Augusta fronts the main
The stuff’s Trans-trained securely,
Another thousand miles to strain
.Vcross the Great Nullarhor Plain
Before it hits Kalgoorlie.
The Golden Mile’s in dust immersed;
Its pubs are far from lone ones ;
Perth breweries cannot quench its thirst
Nor yet, alack! its own ones.
And none can hold John Forrest’s line
Constructed prematurely
When twice a week, strong hands consign
Ten tons where malt and liops combine
From Melbourne to Kalgoorlie.
Around the Great Australian Bight
Through regions burned and baking
The wallop goes, by day and night.
The miner’s thirst for slaking.
Here’s “Hands across the Continent 1”
The toast’s an apt one, surely,
When foaming beer to the extent
Of twenty tons a week is sent —
Two thousand miles. I’m confident —
From Melbourne to Kalgoorlie.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


AN UNBIASED OPINION
“The Automobile Engineer” (London), official organ of the Institution
of Automobile Engineers in an article on Modern Fuels states: —
. Competition has compelled other petrol producers to adopt like methods of
control, but the fact remains that SHELL MOTOR SPIRIT sets a standard of
quality not only in this country but throughout the world."
—“Automobile Engineer,” Dec., 1931.
INSTANT STARTING
SHELL
THE SHELL COMPANY LIMITED
INSTANT ACCELERATION
51297
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Eddy Dunn, editor of Sydney “Labor
Daily,” has written his last leader; and many
people who hated his politics are sorry. He
was a stout, red-haired, jolly-looking man,
with a drawling voice and a dry hurhor,. Sub-
editor of Brisbane “Truth” in Norton’s time,
he was sent west to edit Perth “Truth,” and
made something of a political as well as a
journalistic reputation there. When Premier
Scaddan declared for conscription, Dunn, a
fervent “anti,” challenged him in Brownhill-
Ivanhoe (Scaddan had temporarily quitted
that stronghold to tackle R. T. Robinson,
one of the Liberal Ministers, in his elec-
torate), and polled surprisingly well. After-
wards he fell out with “Truth” and returned
to Sydney, to become identified with the
“Labor Daily” (called the “Daily Mail” at;
first) for the rest of his all-too-brief life.
A Buixetin contributor for years, he was a
brother of Billy Dunn, late M.L.A. for
Mudgee and a member of three N.S.W. Labor
Cabinets.
Ninety years of age next month is Tas-
mania’s Grand Old Lady, Mrs. Henry
Dobson, who was born at: Port; Arthur in
1842, the youngest daughter of Thomas
James Lempriere, Assistant Commissary-
General. Her social activities are numerous
and varied; she is a. vice-president for life
of the National Council of Women, and for
years past, no committee in Hobart; has been
complete without her. Mrs. Dobson is pro-
bably Australia’s most-travelled woman;
she has made over -60 voyages to Europe
and America.
Australia lias had but four women mem-
bers of Parliament to date, and none of
them has attained a reputation compar-
able with Lady Astor’s in the House of
Commons. Still, there are some minor
matters in which they can more than hold
their own. One of the most pleasant
features or gestures in the Westralian
Assembly, according to the writer of the
gallery notes in the “West Australian,” is Miss
Holman’s bow to the Speaker or Chairman of
Committees as the lady enters or leaves the
Chamber —“a graceful and gracious obei-
sance, charming to behold.”
Val Doultree is the registrar of Toe H
in N. S. Wales. He is off to London next
month by the Ormonde in response to a
special invitation from headquarters. There
he will absorb further administrative ex-
VAL DOULTREE, of Toe H.
perience from Peter William Monie, who,
after a quarter of a century in the Indian
civil service, retired six or seven years ago
to become Hon, Administrator of Toe II. —
world chief of the organisation.
When the 30ft. yacht Gullmarn. bound for
England, called in at Thursday Island the
other day with its adventurous party, one
of the company immediately made a beeline
for the local branch of the Royal Geogra-
phical Society. This was Mrs. Birtles, who
is a B.A. of Sydney, in addition to being an
A.B.\on the Gullmarn. The lady has made
history her hobby, particularly that relating
to Cook, Torres and other bold seamen, and
with the T. I. School of Arts as temporary
headquarters she acquired a wealth of mate-
rial for a book on which she is engaged.
Some old Spanish coins picked up; from
Barrier wrecks, and a collection of other
relics which have been brought up by divers
from time to time, helped to give additional
romance to the records. Mrs. Birtles hopes
to throw some light on the question whether
Torres travelled as close to Australia as
elucidators of the lately-discovered De Prado
documents say.
The most famous racing trio in M.L. was
composed of George Dean Greenwood, his
horse Gloaming and his trainer Dick Mason.
All three have died within the last three
months. Greenwood, the last to go, though
born in England was the son of one of the
Canterbury pioneers who purchased the
Teviotdale Estate in
the ’sixties., G„ D.
Greenwood succeeded
to that property in
1878 and ever after-
ward lived the life
of the lord of the
manor. H'e was one*
of the first M.L.
graziers to experi-
ment in breeding
dual-purpose sheep,
and had a big hand
in evolving the Cor-
riedale. He was
financially venture-
some, and almost in-
variably successful.
At his death his
estate was conserva-
tively estimated to
be worth £7SO,(XX),
and it included sheep-
runs in Q’land and
Argentina and sub-
stantial investments
in England. His will
contained provision
for the maintenance
in comfort of. Gloa-
ming (who died first )
and the erection of
a monument over
the horse's grave.
Doubtless there ar.
a few people in Syd
ney who retain per-
sonal recollections of
Sir Gilbert Parker,
dead in London in
his 70th year. Born
in Canada, Parker
rambled around the
world extensively be-
fore settling down to
his life’s work in
London, and he was
leader-writer and
dramatic critic for
the “S. M. Herald”
HERBERT MAYO,
K.C., president of the
S.A. Law Society.
for three years in the late ’eighties, Ilis
activities in England were voluminous and
mostly bore a strong Imperial flavor, but
perhaps his best title to fame lies in his
novels, particularly the early ones on the
lines of “Pierre and Ilis People,” which had
a wide and well-deserved vogue in late-Vic-
torian days. He sat in the Commons for
18 years as M.P. for Gravesend, and he had
charge of publicity work in the U.S.A. in
the early war years. He died a baronet and
a Privy Councillor.
D. J. C. McGrath', newly-elected president
of the Queensland Irish Association, is a
solicitor, whereas ex-Attorney-General Mac-
groarty, who contested the election with
him, is a barrister. The win was the more
notable since the ex-Minister had held the
job for seven years. The new president was
born in Rockhampton 32 years ago, and took
up his articles with a local solicitor after
leaving the Christian Brothers’ College.
After a term as partner in a Brisbane Arm
lie struck out for himself.
J. W. Walby, who panned his last pros-
pect at Charters Towers the other day, was
one of the few remaining old hands of the
field, where he was for many years a mine
manager. About 25 years ago he went across
to Woodlark Island, in Papua, to manage
the Kulamadau mine, a reefing proposition
that failed to fulfil expectations. Returning
to North Queensland he abandoned gold-
mining and turned to hotel-keeping, with
much more satisfactory results.
Baron Tennyson, the third of his line, is
about to visit Australia on business, and
Maoriland for big-game fishing. His dad
was Governor of South Australia Horn ’99
to ’O2, and Governor-General of the Com-
monwealth from ’O3 to ’O4. The grand-
son of a Poet Laureate —who wrote some
verses about him —and the son of a pro-
consul, the present peer’s title to fame has
been mainly acquired as a cricketer, though
he had a fine war record, too. His cricket
career has been a remarkable one; he played
in the Eton eleven, failed to get his blue
at Cambridge, and yet ultimately found him-
self leading England against Australia i
1921. For years past he has captained
Hampshire.
“T-omyodai”: Broome (W.A.) has lost
.some of its foremost pearlers this last year
or two, notably Clarke, Percy; Talboys and
Biddles. The last to go was Otto Blackman,
a well-known figure here for over 30 years
and manager of Streeter and Male’s fleet for
the last 10 years. He came to Broome from
Thursday Island, where he learned his job
from Tommy Farquhar, and no one did so
much to introduce up-to-date methods in the
industry. It was said of him that he had
opened more shell than any other man; he
was the recognised local authority on pearls
and m.o.p. shell, and his knowledge was
always available for the asking to younger
and inexperienced men. Blackman was Aus-
tralian-born, and learned engineering in
England and Germany before embarking on
his life’s work.
Fitzroy (Melbourne) has lost E. T. Apps,
its best-known citizen. Born there 70 years
ago he spent his whole life in the populous
suburb, of which he was three times Mayor.
His other diversion was soldiering. He was
associated with Col. Tom Price in the old
Mounted Rifles, later in the Light Horse,
and assisted as a lieut.-col. in camps when
recruits for the Great War wer'e being
licked into shape. He was accorded an
outsize in funerals, as befitted the managing
director of a firm that has buried so many
thousands of Melburnians.
Reverend David ,T. Knox, the new rector
of Christ Church, Gladesville (N.S.W.),
was well-known to Diggers during the wai-
ns overseas secretary to the Australian
Y.M.C.A. Applying for a chaplaincy with
the A.I.F. among the first—he was then in
charge of St. Luke’s, Adelaide —lie was re-
fused because of his young family; his retort
was to secure the Y.M.C.A. job. He made a
specialty of looking after Diggers who had
fallen into trouble with authority; at the
Warwick Square A.I.F. “clink” he was a
daily visitor.
Mrs. Ann Southwell, whose death occurred
the other day at 86, came of a family which
was amongst the earliest settlers in what
is now the Federal Capital Territory. Born
near Camden (N.S.W.), a daughter of
Richard Croxton, she lived after her mar-
riage to the late Samuel Southwell first at
Weetangerra, about seven miles from Can-
berra, and later at Yarralumla, a portion
of which is now the grounds of the Gover-
nor-General’s residence. Eight sons survive
her.
In the S. Aus. Assembly this month ex-
Speaker Laffer paid a great tribute to Fred
Johns, chief of the “Hansard” staff —he
said, “Mr. Johns is one of the highest, quali-
fied men in Australia, and has never missed
a sitting of Parliament during his 19 years’
service here.”
Dead in Adelaide, the veteran Harry
Denton, life-member of the Royal Agricul-
tural Society, and a great worker for the
S.P.C.A. and for St. Peter’s College, of
which he was a governor.
You find these Australians in all sorts
of places doing- all sorts of things. Tom
Skeyhill, lately killed in an aeroplane crash,
wasn’t the only Cornstalk making most of
his living as a public lecturer in the U.S.A.
Another is Norman V. Pearce, of Broad-
way, N’York —“known to millions, ’’ the “N.
Y. World” lately wrote of him. He had
occasion to send a note about his Bulletin
delivery the other day, and added an in-
quiry:
Is the jackass laughing still among’ the tree tops?
Is the wild heath growing still upon the hills?
Is the wattle blossom blooming as it used to
Beside the banks of flowing crystal rills?
An unpoetic clerk replied that the wild
heath and the wattle were still abundant,
but crystal rills weren’t as frequent as they
might be.
Passed out at 99, Mrs, M. Macpherson, a
Riverina resident for 80 years. Her de-
scendants number well over 200 —11 children
62 grandchildren, 141 great-grandchildren
and 11 great-great-grandchildren. During
the war she could claim a record that must
be unique—that of havipg 15 grandsons
in the A.I.F. Four of them never returned.
ARCHBISHOP DUHIG, of Brisbane,
61 last week.
Dr. Lawrence Adamson, the great head-
master who recently retired from Wesley
College. Melbourne, after 30 years of con-
trol, is to be the subject of a biography by
Dr. Felix Myer. It is likely to be a polished
piece of English.
“Bootless Inlet”: Though Hubert Murray
may have been the first Australian
Governor of Australia’s first dependency
(B. 17/8/’32), he was not the first Aus-
tralian to control its destinies. When
Papua was British New Guinea, the late
John Douglas of Queensland exercised what
control there was until Dr. Macgregor-
later Sir William Macgregor—was appointed
Governor in place of Sir Peter Scratehley.
Francis Winter, the first Judicial Officer
of 8.N.G., also had spells as acting-Adminfi-
istrator,and so did his successor, Christopher
Robinson. Both were Queenslanders.
Lloyd Brind, manager of United Distil-
lers, bears a name which goes back in the
whisky- and gin-distilling business to the
’seventies, when Blind, sen., started Aus-
tralia’s first big distillery at Warrenheip, out-
side Ballarat. Son Lloyd grew up with the
business and took a leading - rt in the
LLOYD BRIND, of the Victorian
Distilleries.
campaign to put the local product on the
map of Australia. Incidentally, he used
to be one of Ballarat’s star footballers, and
captained the town’s leading team for years.
He holds the Royal Humane Society’s medal
for saving life, too.
D. H. Warby, who heard the call of
“'fime, please” in Grafton (N.S.W.) the
other day, was a good specimen of the old-
time sporting publican. Originally a trader
on the Clarence, he came to Sydney and
opened the Liverpool Arms at the corner of
King and Pitt streets, a house which soon
became a rendezvous for the professional
scullers of that day, including Beach, Stan-
bury, Searle and Kemp. Many of the big
matches were fixed up at Warby’s hotel, and
he was Searle’s principal backer. He re-
turned to the Clarence 35 years ago and
divided his time between farming and hotel-
keeping until the end at 81.
“C.Q.”: Frederick Belcher, a 17-year-old
student at Geelong Grammar School, has
come into a lot of limelight lately. He
was born of Australian parents in the Argen-
tine, and, having under Argentinian law
been registered as a citizen of that republic,
he has just been summoned to join up with
its army for 12 months’ training in bar-
racks. An elder brother left Australia a
year ago to fulfil his military obligations
and the younger will follow in a year or so.
This is nationalism run mad. I have a son
who, by the same reasoning, might be a
Chinaman, since he was born in China of
Australian parents. Certainly he was born
in the International Settlement and was
registered at the British Consulate as a
British citizen; but the Government of
China is as fiercely nationalistic as any
other nowadays, and might easily pass a
law overriding that.
John Harwood, who died recently in War-
wick (Q.), was one of the most learned men
in these parts. A scholarship took him from
Durham School to Oxford, and, after a brief
spell as a master at Brighton College, he
became Director of Education in Ceylon.
111-health brought him to Australia. He
was an admitted authority on Plato, his
translations of that philosopher having been
published by the Oxford and Cambridge
Presses. His sojourn in Ceylon gave him an
interest in several native languages, and he
had made a close study of Cingalese, Sans-
krit and Pali. He was 74 at the end.


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the most significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.”
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of tfee Assured is 15 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is payable in monthly instal-
ments during the balance of a period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid also to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
General Secretary.
Buy Standardised
Belting
There’s a Pioneer Leather Belt
to suit every type ,of drive.
you specify Pioneer Leather
Belting you are sure to get depend-
ability, phis extra years of service.
Every Pioneer Leather Belt is made to
a definite standard of thickness from the
best quality belt leather, and carries
our replacement guarantee should
defects in quality of material or work-
manship develop.
If you have a belting problem our
experts will advise you without obli-
gation.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING.
Manufactured since 1858 by
J. c: LUDOWICI & SON, LIMITED,
117 York Street, Sydney ; land
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
♦Nestor . . 14,500 tons, Oct. 18
. . 18,500 „ Oct. 26
♦Ulysses . . 14,500 „ Nov. 8
♦Anchises . . 10,000 ~ Dec. 6
•First class only. 1 Cabin class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agent 3
I
GARBAGE DESTRUCTOR
Why pay for expensive
carting to get rid of your
refuse when you can burn
it‘ immediately and so re-
duce your expenses, and
get rid of fly and rat pests,
which only spread disease.
BELIEVE IT OR NOT
This is the most
scientific destructor
on the market.
Owing to its con-
struction, it is smoke-
less and odorless.
Used in Public
Schools, Hospitals, Factories, etc.;
also made in household size. Send
for Bulletins on Filters, Explosives,
Stamp Batteries, etc.
GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney).
Net To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
& & & £t
1921.. 73,273 9 p.c. = 45,901 27,372 223,363
1922.. 82,866 9 „ „ 60,360 32,496 256,859
1923.. 96,899 9 „ „ 59,218 37,681 293,540
1924.. 117,570 9 „ „ 67,494 50,076 343,616
1925.. 129,132 9 „ „ 83,498 45,634 389,250
1926.. 147,915 9 „ „ 90,000 57,915 447,165
1927.. 159,101 10 „ „ 113,675 45,426 492,591
1928.. 168,449 10 „ „ 120,000 48,449 541,040
1929.. 170,294 10 ~ „ 120,000 50,294 691,334
1930.. 148,184 9 „ „ 108,000 40,184 63-1,518
1931.. 78,050 6-1 „ „ 78,000 50 631,568
1932.. 72,027 6 „ „ 72,000 27 631,595
Robust development and speculation as to
whether the co. would link up with the
Tooth-Resch interests kept the market for
Tooheys’ scrip at 38s. in September, 1929.
But changes on the board were followed by
alterations in the method of financing the
business, and then slump transformed the
whole outlook. How economic and political
developments have affected the market the
following table shows: —
/ Scrip Return Net
Face Market at Market Tangible
Sept., Value. Price. Div. Price. Cover.*
1929.. 16/- 38/- 10 p.c. 4.2 p.c. 23/11
1930.. 16/- 17/3 8t„ 7.4 „ 24/5
1931.. 16/- 14/9 st„ 5.5 „ 24/5
1932.. 16/- 21/6 6 „ 4.4 „ 24/5
-Last balance. tFinal 8 p.c. p.a. JFinal 5 p.c. p.a.
Thus, as reduced spending affected turnover,
and stinging increases in excise and other
(axes pressed upon the attenuated earnings,
the div. dropped and the price of the scrip
continued to fall, reaching its lowest point
after the taxation proposals of the Premiers’
Conference became known about a year ago.
Since then changes in both Federal and
State Governments, the forcing down of
interest rates and a series of favorable
world developments, including the recent
strengthening of price levels, have put fresh
heart into the market, which now counts
upon Tooheys paying at least 6 p.c. It is
doubtful, however, whether anything better
need be expected for a while.
After providing for contingencies, last
year’s gross earnings (£504.910) fell away
£101,378, making the slip £251,644 over the
last two years. Exes. (£432,883) were
pulled back £95,355, visibly leaving but £27
more than the 6 p.c. div. called for. On
the basis of figures at June 30 a 6 p.c. div.
would call for 3.9 p.c. on total funds (capi-
tal and reserves combined), whereas in 1931
there was enough to show 4.3 p.c. on average
funds as against 8.2, 9.6, 9.8, 9.9 and 10.4
p.e. back to 1926.
Over the last three years the amount
coming to sundry creditors has been reduced
by £301,335. mainly from moneys advanced
by a subsidiary, Tooheys Standard Securi-
ties :
1925. 1929. 1931. 1932.
Capital £999,591 £1,200,000 £1,200,000 £1,200,000
Sundry
creditors 309,225 497,220 255,249 195,885
Loans* 323,740 328,661
Breweries,
hotels,
etc. 1,114,334 1,593,197 1,762,648 1,773,094
Stocks 183,779 161,886 86,593 79,428
Book debts 445,011 584,413 560.479 493,832
Cash and
public
securities 13,452 24,059 5,287 6,739
Shares i n
other, cos. 40,550 39,050
•Advances by subsidiary.
Last year the pup sent along a further
£4921, which, together with a reduction of
£66.647 in debtors’ balances aud of £7165
in the stocks item, enabled £59,364 to be
knocked off the amount coming to sundry
creditors and £10,446 net to be added to the
book value of fixed assets, including hotel
properties. Excluding loans from the sub-
sidiary, the more or less liquid surplus
(£423,164) was £14,496 lighter than at the
previous balance. Stocks, by the way, are
actually lower than the figure at which they
appeared in 1914.
To keep finance as far as possible a domes-
tic matter, Tooheys Standard Securities was
formed at the end of 1929. At July 31 last
paid capital was £312,500 in 300,000 71 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 49,978 ords. The ords., “paid
to £12,500, are held by the parent, whose
shareholders put up most of the pref. money.
Sundry creditors figured at £7511, and the
p. and 1 balance at £8719. Tooheys appear
as a debtor for £328,661. The Securities
co.’s prefs. are priced at 235. 3d. on the
market. Allowing for the statutory eut
(22-1 p.c.), the return at that figure is 5 p.c.
Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd.
To Re- Nominal
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1922.. 66,132 12$ p.c. = 50,000 16,132 86,468
1923.. 75,070 124 „ „ 50,000 25,070 111,638
1924.. 60,682 10 „ „ 40,000 20,682 132,220
Loss.
1925.. 61,948 5 „ „ 20,000 50,272
Profits.
1926.. 38,448 7 „ „ 28,000 10,448 60,720
1927.. 47,134 8 „ „ 32,000 15,134 75,854
Depreciation reserve taken in, £32,000.. 107,854
1928.. 58,693 10 p.c. = 40,000 18,693 126,547
Deficit.
Goodwill disclosed, £130,000 .. 3,453
Loss.
1929.. 12,110 Nil 15,563
1930.. 164,575 Nil 180,138
9s. a share ( £180,000) struck off capital.. 138
1931.. 19,705 Nil 19,8^3
Profit.
1932.. 1,447 Nil 18,396
Very little of the business —the co. is in
the wool-and-skin trade —is done on a com-
mission basis. Hence the scrip is one of
the most speculative industrials on the
market. The worst of the recent mischief
occurred in the furred-skin section, where
buying is confined to the short winter
months, supplies being shipped overseas
according to market requirements. Follow-
ing the 1929 purchases the markets failed.
Heavy liquidation of stocks in London.
Leipzig and New York made the sale of
fresh supplies from Australia almost im-
possible, while each drop in prices piled
the co.’s losses higher and higher. Thus,
when the books closed in 1930, the balance
was struck at £164,575 on the wrong side,
leaving £180,138 of share capital unrepre-
sented by tangibles—goodwill figured at
£130,000. So 9s. per share (£180,000) was
jettisoned, reducing paid capital to £220,000
in fully-paid 11s. shares.
But large stocks had accumulated, markets
continued to sag and a further loss of
£19,705 showed up in 1931. Though the
headlong descent of prices was broken during
the 12 months covered by the latest accounts,
trading was restricted, and only £1447 of
profit showed up.
Over the last two years the book value
of stocks has been reduced by £163,416, of
which £21,432 was in respect of the last
12 months:—
1928. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £400,000 £400,000 £220’060 £220,000
Liabilities . . 189,315 297,637 148,773 .117,713
Fixed assets* 324,706 190,493 184,114 180,054
Stocks . . 194,097 253,293 111,308 59,876
Book debts . . 235,612 73,102 52,834 48,701
Cash .. .. 1,448 610 675 686
■"lncluding goodwill ( £180,000) down to 1929.
Advances against shipments (£8380) were
£35,123 lighter than the 1931 figure. There
was a drop of only £29S in the overdraft
(£94,591), and a growth of £4361 in sus-
pense accounts; thus making the net reduc-
tion in the total debt £31,060. The improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£21,550, including stocks) was £5506.
Encouraged by the recent strengthening
of prices, the market lengthened its bid for
the scrip from 4s. to 6s. The return at
the higher price would be 7.3 p.c. on a 4 p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible cover is 10s. Id
hook value.
George Farmer, Ltd.
r Dividends.
Net Prefs. Towards
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves. Deficit.
1922.. 21,144 4800 15 p.c. = 9,000 7,344 17,181
1923.. 29,675 4800 25 ~,, 15,000 9,875 7,306
1924.. 20,146 4800 20 „ ~12,000 3,346 3,960
Reserves.
1925.. 27,849 4800 20 ~,,12,000 11,049 7,089
Assets written up, £20,000 .. .. 27,089
1926.. 27,184 4800 20 p.c. =12,000 10,384 37,473
Reserves capitalised, £30,000 .. .. 7,473
1927.. 25,414 4800 18 p.c. =16,200 4,414 11,887
1928.. 21,334 4800 16 ~,, 14,400 2,134 14,021
1929.. 17,943 4800 14 „ ~12,600 543 14,564
1930.. 16,456 4800 10 „ „ 9,000 1,656 16,220
1931.. 14,962 4800 10 „ „ 9,000 1,162 17,382
1932.. 12,503 4800 8 „„ 7,200 503 17,885
Those who continue to hold original ords. in
this Ballarat ham-and-bacon concern —it. paid
£112,000, including £27,500 for goodwill, for
George Farmer’s old business in 1919 —are
still on the pig’s back. Two 10 p.e. divs.
were followed by one of 35 p.c., another of
25 p.c. and three of 20 p.c. to the close
of accounts in 1926. From this point, at
which the fatness was larded with a one
for two gift issue, earnings have persistently
slipped, and the div. has come down by
halting steps to 8 p.c. last year, when there
was little to spare. However, the gift makes
8 p.c. worth 12 p.c. to old holders.
Slump, competition and price-cutting have
narrowed margins, while overhead has re-
mained obstinate, due largely to taxation.
The slip in last year’s gross earnings
(£31,265) was £5301. Exes. (£18,762)
were pulled back £2842; still, they were
only £316 lighter than they were five years
ago, when gross earnings were over £13,000
better than last year’s. Hopes are that, with
the recent turn of events, earnings have
touched their lowest level. Much, however,
will depend upon the course of competition.
On the market the ords., which dropped
from 51s. in 1928 to 235. in 1931, are now
priced at 295. The return at 295. is p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The book value of
the net tangible cover is 235. lid.; thus the
market values goodwill, long since written
out of the accounts, at approximately
£22,500. At 275. the 8 p.c. cum. prefs.—
there are 60,000 of them —yield 5.9 p.c.
Last year’s profit was over two and a half
times their annual requirements, and the
cover was £2 15s. lid. in net tangibles.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:—
1922. 1929. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £120,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 1,838 6,829 1,717 1,887
Premises .. 16,105 50,248 47,965 46,766
Plant, etc. .. 15,386 30,875 32,061 ' 30,680
Stocks . . 23,928 40,767 16,557 22,142
Book debts . . 29,416 36,609 27,521 26,326
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 31,470 22,694 55,494 51,997
Stocks, up £5585 during the year, are the
trickiest item there. The more or less liquid
surplus (£98,578, including stocks) im-
proved £725 during the twelvemonth.
Berlei, Ltd.
, Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1927.. 16,332 2635 10 p.c. = 12,265 1432 25,948
1928.. 17,165 2635 10 „ „ 12,382 2148 28,096
1929.. 16,595 2635 10 „ „ 12,479 1481 29,577
1930.. 13,064 3712 74 „ „ 9,361 29,568
U.S.A. rights sold; intangibles reduced,
£1965 31,533
1931.. 17,629 4000 7! p.c. = 9,361 4268 35,801
Unexplained additions to reserves, £2300.. 38,101
1932.. 15,650 4000 8 p.c. - 9,985 1665 39,766
More trade came this co.’s way last year,
thanks partly to the tariff and exchange
(in ’29 the business was supplying over half
the, corset requirements of the Australian
market). But the taxgatherer made off with
the .extra profit and more besides, while
exchange (the co. imports much of its raw
material) offset savings from improved tech-
nical efficiency, and stood in the way of a
reduction in the co.’s selling prices.
Disregarding an unexplained addition of
£2ooo to reserves, and after handing the
staff £1773 as against £2681 for the previous
term.in profit-sharing divs.. the declared net
result was £1979 lighter. There was enough
to pay the pref. div. and show 8.7 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 10.9, 7.4, 11.2, 11.7
and 11.1 p.c. back to 1927. However, the
outlook generally has brightened, so half a
point was added to the div., making 8 p.c.
tor the year; though that rate is by no
means, secure. Certainly nothing better
should be looked for at present, notwith-
standing the basic wage adjustment in N. S.
Wales. The intention is to pass on any
further Cavings to the public in price reduc-
tions, and thus strengthen the connections.
Both the Maoriland and Victorian subsi-
diaries report increased sales, and each
declared the “usual dividend.” The new
English offshoot, Berlei (U.K.), Ltd., which
put up a factory at Slough just as the
slump began, is expected to show a profit at
next balance. Laddaloc (in liq.), a little
knitting concern in which the co. was inter-
ested, has paid Bs. per share, and more is
expected.
The financial position improved slightly:—
„„ •• 1928. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. £157,436 £176,867 £176,958 £176,958
Mortgage .. 26,000 26,000 26,000 *
Overdraft .. 34,266 50 13,707 6,051
Sundry creditors 15*200 21,927 37,609 29,117
Freehold .. 58,660 58,660 58,660 32,660*
Plant . . 18,314 15,680 13,210 12,061
Investments.. 33,458 51,549 56.464 55,524
Stocks .. 121,634 115,364 116,845 102,061
Book debts.. 33,838 16,206 47,961 41,226
Cash, etc. .. 2,602 2,074 2,055 14,105
"Mortgages deducted from asset.
During the year the book value of stocks
and debtors’ balances was reduced by £14,784
and £6735 respectively, £16,148 was
knocked off the floating debt and £12,050
was added to cash, etc. Excluding invest-
ments and the mortgage, the more or less
liquid surplus (£122,224) was £6679 stronger
than at the close of accounts in 1931.
At 225. 9d. the 8 p.c. prefs.—there are
50,000 of them—return 5.4 p.c., after allow-
ing for the statutory cut. The ords. are
priced at 255.; the return at that figure is
6.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The net tan-
gible backing is £4 4s. 3d. prefs., 255. 4d.
ords.
Bennett and Fisher, Ltd. (Adelaide)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 16,224 7 p.c. = 13,910 2314 21 558
1922.. 14,186 5 „ „ 11,985 2201 19A57
1923.. 23,399 7i „ „ 17,987 5412 13,945
1924.. 28,768 8 „ „ 19,200 9568 4,377
Reserves.
1925.. 36,737 10 „ „ 27,532 9205 4,828
Added to intangibles, £3830 . . 998
Prefs.,
7-1 p.e. Ordinaries.
£ £
1926.. 39,777 9,309 8 p.c.=24,000 6,468 7,466
Added to intangibles, £3750 .. 3,716
1927.. 48,803 20,256 8 p.c.=24,000 4,547 8 263
1928.. 54,833 22,500 7 „„ 21,000 11,333 19,596
1929.. 47,496 22,500 6}„ „ 19,600 5,490 25 092
1930.. 21,450 22,500 Nil 24 04?
1931.. 321 Nil Nil 321 24’.363
1932 .. 1,692 Nil Nil 1,692 26,055
During the seven fat years to the close of
accounts in 1928 this c o.—it amalgamated
the old businesses of Bennett and Fisher
and Cheadle, Grase and Go. in 1919 —added
£524,553 to the book value of advances, got
in £301,630 of fresh capital and went out-
side for an extra £154,499. Distributions
were liberal, leaving the support for capital
thin —visibly £26,055 in excess of goodwill
(£27,000) at June 30 —and now that slump
has broken down both earnings and values,
dividends have ceased to flow and book debts
have become a worrying problem.
In Adelaide an extra 24,074 bales were
put under the hammer last season, making
197,954 in all. The lot averaged £9 6s. 3d.
as against £8 12s. 7d. for the previous year:
thus £347,434 was added to the State’s wool
cheque (£1,847,945), which, however, was
little more than one-third of the 1927-28
figure. Prices in the livestock and skin
markets have contracted almost as abruptly.
After providing for contingencies, there was
a slip of £3793 in the year’s gross earnings
(£53,554), making the fall £100,096 over
the last three years. Exes. (£51,862) were
got back £5164, leaving £1692 of profit,
whereas the pref. divs. (now £45,000 in
arrears) call for £22,500 p.a. Just when the
prefs,’ slate will be cleaned it is difficult to
say; everything hinges upon the ability of
clients to stand up to their commitments.
Exchange, financial emergency legislation
and wage reductions have given’ the grower a
little relief, the seasonal outlook is bright,
and the strengthening of prices is encourag-
ing. Nevertheless, handling charges and
taxation are high, many clients are finding
it difficult to make ends meet, and buyers
are demanding an extra half of one per-
cent. discount for cash, making 5f p.c. in
all. the same as in Sydney and Brisbane.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it-
-1921. 1928 1931 1932
Paid capital.. £238,370 £600,000 £6OOJJOO £600,000
Sundry creditors 225,569- 380,068 292,774 296,805
Freeholds, plant,
stock, etc... 93,3201 114,113 118,905 106,524
Advances & bills 379,976 904,429 778,212 796,196
Investments & cash 18,373 20,370 2D,291
-Less cash in hand. flncludes goodwill.
Last year the book value of fixed assets,
etc. —the etcetera comprises some merchan-
dise—was reduced by £12,381, and £4621
was added to the debt, thus enabling debtors'
balances to be increased by £17,984 net.
_ The market, doubtful of an early restora-
tion of satisfactory earnings, prices the A
and B prefs. at 11s. and Bs. fid. respectively,
and the ords. at ss. The prefs.—there are
150,000 A’s and a like number of B’s —rank
in the order stated for capital and a cumu-
lative 7-J p.c. div. The book value of the
net tangible cover is £l2 6s. sd. A’s; £3 3s.
sd. B’s; 21s. 9d. ords.
Equity Trustees Co. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, senes.
1922.. 13,640 16! p.c. = 8,250 5,390 38,912
1923.. 13,709 19 „ „ 9,500 4,269 43,181
1924.. 15,289 19 „ „ 9,500 5,789 48,970
Transferred to capital, £25,000.. 23,970
1925.. 14,145 14 p.c. = 10,500 3,645 27,615
1926.. 13,355 16 „ „ 12,000 1,355 28,970
1927.. 19,123 18 „ „ 13,500 5,623 34,593
1928.. 15,801 18 „ „ 13,500 2,301 36,894
Profit on sale of freehold, £23,613.. 60,507
1929.. 24,224 18 p.c. = 13,500 10,724 71,231
1930.. 17,964 18 „ „ 13,500 4,464 75,695
Share premiums, £15,000 .. .. 90,695
1931.. 12,277 16 p.c. = 14,099 88,873
1932.. 10,072 12 „ „ 10,800 88,145
Never has there been greater need for revi-
sion of the terms of a will nor more danger
associated with the distribution of legacies
than at the moment. These and other com-
plications now associated with the adminis-
tration of assets are driving more business
into the expert care of the trustee cos. This
one, which does not disclose the volume of
its trusts, put more new business on the
books than ever during the 12 months cov-
ered by the latest accounts. But the shrink-
age in values, reductions in interest and
rents, growth of taxation and lifeless state
of the property market have affected the
co.’s corpus and other commission earnings,
as well as returns from its own funds.
Thus there was a further slip of £3884 in
the year’s gross earnings:—
Exes. p.c.
Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910 .. £17,131 £11,328 66.1
1920 . . 26,673 14,775 55.3
1925 .. 37,467 23,322 62.2
1927 .. 47,091 27,968 59.3
1928 .. 46.963 31,162 62.8
1929 . . 54,856 30,632 55.8
1930 . . 52,328 34,364 65.6
1931 . . 47,33 S 35,061 73.6
1932 .. 43,454 33,382 76.9
Exes, were £1679 lighter, leaving the net
result at 11.1 p.c. on capital compared with
14, 23.9, 32.3, 21, 25.5 and 17.8 p.c. back
to 1926. So four points were knocked off
the div., reducing it to 12 p.c., and reserves
were tapped for £728 to pay it. Still, 12
p.c. is worth 19.6 p.c. on the cash-paid
capital and share premiums combined. On
the basis of figures at June 30 a 12 p.c. div.
would call for a shade over 6 p.c. on the
co.’s own funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) ; much, therefore, depends upon re-
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 16.}


ilii
M*
VIRGIN^
from the
o
mm
m
: :
One Choicest Jbeaffrom the
OPleudatimis of (Virginia
TT draws its sweetness from the fertile
**■ soil of sun-bathed valleys —its perfec-
tion from ceaseless care during the three,
years in which it matures. Virginia
tobacco! The tobacco that is selected
by its purity and flavour for Abdulla
Virginia Leaf Cigarettes.
20 Q-LatOins 1 6.
CORK TIPPED
CIGARETTES.
Ofu SPerfect Ciqantte demanded by PPeopU of CP iscetm i nation


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard! of Quality throughout the Empire •
Monobel
Samsonite
gelatine Dynam Itc
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Oetonators
Cartridges
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through + he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
IJ'nfe for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL D DOYLE
J. W. DARNER. Manager.
Di rectors:
F. X. VARAVOOI>
(Chairman’,
THOS. BUCKLAND
•T. H. S. ANGUS
F„ V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
turns from the trustee section. In this re-
spect the continued growth of the business
and the turn in prices. are encouraging.
When the books closed there was £91,276
in book debts, public securities and cash to
meet debts totalling £48,525-—£32,025 of it
was on mortgage and the balance overdraft.
It was to finance the new Bourke-street
premises, in at £140,983, that the board
went outside. Paid capital is £90,000 in 50s.
shares paid to 10s.—the other 40s. is a
reserve liability, callable only in the event
of liquidation. The market prices the scrip
at 265. 3d. as against 235. a year ago. The
return at 265. 3d. is 4.5 p.c. on a 12 p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 39s 7d. in net
tangibles.
Australian Alloy Steel, Ltd., is a little
Sydney concern which seems to be heading
in the right direction. It was launched a
year or so ago by ,T. M. Deschamps—he used
1o be managing director of Hadfields
(Aust.), Ltd. —who recently patented a pro-
cess for the production of manganese steel
ploughshares by means of mechanically-
operated cast-iron dies. The high tempera-
ture tough steel alloy is taken from an elec-
trically-heated furnace, poured into the dies
and dropped into the chill, all within a few
seconds. Compared with the old hand-made
sand-mould method, the number of opera-
tions is reduced from four to two. with, of
course, large savings in costs. This and
the toughness of the new ploughshares ought
to mean much so far as markets are con-
cerned. The co. also appears to have possi-
bilities iu the development of other lines.
Much will depend upon whether the co. gets
the necessary financial support, and the way
in which the marketing is handled.
B, Dunstan, one-time Government Geolo-
gist in Queensland, has been examining on
behalf of the Commonwealth Mines Syndi-
cate, London, some of the fields in N.Q. over
which the syndicate holds five-year conces-
sions, granted by the Government for the
purpose of prospecting for gold and other
minerals, excluding coal and petroleum. The
concessions include 15,000 acres on the
Palmer goldfield, 45,000 acres in the locali-
ties of Percyvllle, Gilberton, Mount Hogan
and Agate Creek, and 10.000 acres on the
Woolgar field. Dunstan’s opinion is that the
Palmer and Gilberton concessions, once
worked by thousands of Chinese who partly
cleaned out the alluvial, are ideal for modern
sluicing methods. The others he has not yet
examined. All were good gold producers in
the old days. The concessions were granted
in 1930, and should not less than £50,000
be spent within five years an extension for
another five will he given, free of rent, unless
gold, etc., is found in payable quantities
meantime.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
In the large area of granite country
between Lolworth Creek and the Upper Cape
River diggings, in the Charters Towers
(N.Q.) district, some fairly rich leaders
have been struck. The two best mines on
the field are the Lucky Hit, which promises
well, and the Sunrise. In the last 12 months
the Sunrise has produced 600 oz. of gold,
valued at £3OOO. The first find on the field
dates back to IS6B, and as many as 3000
men were once at work. The field yielded
approximately SO.OOOoz. of gold, valued at
£200,000, up to the end of 1889. The
workings were all shallow.
* *
In the Cloncurry (Q.) district parts of
the old Gilded Rose line of reef have been
yielding up to 3-4 oz. of gold to the ton. At
Bishop’s Creek "some good crushings are
reported from Jones’s Favorite; the
old Top Camp, Mary Douglas Hill aud
Chinaman’s Flat diggings are also being
looked over. Gold was first discovered in
the district in 1867; Top Camp was the
scene of much of the early activity.
One of the parties which have been work-
ing in the country south of the Palmer
River goldfield (N.Q.) has located a' new
reef on the Mitchell River, near the old
Cooktown crossing, about 57 miles north-
west of Mareeba. The reef is 15ft. under-
ground, sft. wide, and prospects up to lOoz.
have been obtained. Upwards of 30 men
are on the new field.
On the Mt. Leysliou goldfield (Q.) a syn-
dicate is at work opening up small rich veins
in the large openent, as well as a body 30ft.
wide on an adjoining lease. The field was
first worked in 1887, since when over
200,000 tons have been treated for an average
of about 20s. per ton. The field was too
low grade with gold at £4.
Golden Surprise, North Ann (Q.), re-
cently crushed 185 tons for 3350 z. of gold,
valued at £lO5O, making the total value from
the reef since work began nearly 12 months
ago approximately £12,000. The tunnel
from the Golden Surprise lease to cut the
Coolum and other reefs not yet worked has
been driven to 602 ft., and a new shaft, now
down 16ft., is being sunk on the line of
the Coolum, where the reef is 15in. to 18in.
wide, and is showing gold freely.
* * * *
ougarloaf Tin’s three hydraulic sluicing
plauts at Stanthorpe (Q.) are being operated
by 27 tributors, who recovered 18 tons of
tin oxide, worth £l6OO, for the quarter
ended June 31. Stanthorpe is one of the
oldest tin-mining areas in the Common-
wealth ; it was worked as early as 1872.
The finger of luck recently guided J. R.
Donaldson to a 360 z. nugget at Wedderburn
(Vic.). The locality is one from which
rich returns were won in the past. All the
ground adjacent to the claim has been
pegged, hut there is no justification for a
rush.
* Cfi if
For the June quarter of this year, mineral
production in Tasmania was valued at
£208,819. Mt. Lyell copper (2885 tons)
brought in £97,450, lead from Magnet, North
Mt. Farrell and Zeehan £6948, and tin from
Bischoff £19,307. The Electrolytic Zinc Co.
recovered 13.229 tons of zinc, valued at
£208,500, and 39 tons of cadmium, worth
£5430, from Broken Hill concentrates. The
cadmium continues to find a ready market,
notwithstanding that the metal is now being
produced in large quantities in Canada,
U.S.A. and Germany. But the price (now
2s. 3d. per pound in London) is little more
than half what it was a few years ago.
At Mt. Bischoff (Tas.) about 170 tri-
butors are at work, and if the price of tin
moves up much further the number is likely
to he greatly increased. Treating rich but
bouldery wash in the valleys near by, tribu-
tors recovered 81 tons of oxide during 1931,
while 2900 tong of ore picked from the
mine workings yielded 198 tons of oxide.
The Bischoff Co., floated in 1873 with a
capital of £7600, paid about three million
in divs. before operations ceased in 1929,
and is responsible for much of the 16 mil-
lion pounds’ worth of tin produced in Tas-
mania to date. At Bischoff the tin occurs in
a topaz porphyry dyke, 6ft. to 60ft. wide, and
is disseminated through the enclosing elate
wall rock.
For the year to June 30 last Lake View
and Star treated 296,000 tons for a profit
of £291,848, including exchange and the
gold bonus, but subject to the tributors’ por-
tion of the exchange premium, which is in dis-
pute. Expenditure on new plant (£85,330)
and development, etc. (£109,407), totalled
£194,737. The outlay on new plant is prac-
tically finished, and that on special develop-
ment is shrinking fast. Present profits in
Australian currency average about £40,000
a month. They are expected to approxi-
mate £50,000 when the plant is handling its
full 40,000 tons monthly early in 1933.
* * * *
Associated Northern (W.A.) lias received
£650 from the Austral, Adelaide, for a 12-
months’ option on the old Iron Duke mine at
Kalgoorlie, and will receive a further 19000-
odd and 10,000 fully-paids if the option is
exercised. Over £2,000,000 worth of gold
was extracted above the 550 ft. level in the
Iron Duke, mostly from a section of .the
famous Oroya-Brownhill shoot. The Austral
people believe that something worth having
will be unearthed in the course of further
development. A party of local mining men,
who have a tribute on the property, think
so, too.
The Aba-dare and Morning Star leases
(W.A.), near the Lake View and Star, have
been optioned for six months by an Adelaide
syndicate. The main shaft, which is down
to 210 ft., is to he unwatered and develop-
ment undertaken.
Australian holders of shares in London-
controlled Westralian gold-mining cos. are
having their periodical growl anent the fees
paid to directors and sums pocketed by them
in travelling expenses, etc. The-case of one
director who got £lOOO to visit Kalgoorlie
is cited as a glaring instance of extrava-
gance.
Norman Stuckey, deputy leader of the
expedition to Paddy Whelan’s find (W.A.,),
has set out on a much drier job than the
ones he successfully tackled at Edna May
Deeps (Westonia) and Gnow’s Nest (Yal-
goo). Stuckey beat the flood at the Deeps
by forcing liquid cement into the water-
carrying fissures. This sent a heavily over-
sold market in Deeps from Bs. to 445.
“Overseer”; Westralian - Mines Minister
Scaddan should feel very pleased with the
results from the Yalgoo State battery. In
11 months it crushed 3518 tons of ore for
a yield, over the plates, of 17870 z. of gold,
an average of lOdwt. 4gr. per ton. The
sands have yet to be treated. One parcel
ol five tons came from far-away Onslow.
North Kalgurli United, which holds the
five leases extending for half a mile from
North Kalgurli to the Croesus Prop., has
been granted a six months’ labor exemption.
These leases are included in the packet which
C. de Bernales has taken to London.
With gold at £4 4.8. lid. per ounce, Ing-
liston Consols (W.A.) would have shown a
loss of £1460 last month. But with exchange
and the gold bounty added the loss is trans-
formed into a profit of about the same
amount.
From the Green Harp lode of the Radio
Deeps mine, Manxman (W.A.), 2oz. ore is
being won over a width of 18 to 30 inches.
Crushing is done at the Copperhead battery,
Bullfinch.
* if * *
“Uramao”: Mr. Credington, of Mel-
bourne, the lai'gest individual shareholder
in the Kawarau venture, is in Maori-
land endeavoring to buck up those interested
in the effort to lay hare the bottom of the
river to get the gold that Julius Vogel
claimed was there in sufficient quantity to
pay off M.L.’s national debt. Dr. Hornell,
the Danish expert, imported to report on
Arapuni hydro works, was engaged at a fee
of four figures to' advise on the Kawarau dam,
He recommended that a subsidiary dam be
put in further down to trap the water of
the two small rivers. This was also sug-
gested by an old miner before the big dam
was started; the said old miner also fixed the
position of the new dam in the same place
as Hornell.
* * * *
Several new cos. are getting under way
in Maoriland. The pontoons of the Brian
Boru dredge, near Nelson Creek (West
Coast), have just been launched. The dredge,
which will be' electrically driven and has
a capacity of 18,000 c.y. per week, should
begin production this year on a 400-acre
claim. The Monowai Gold, Copper and Lead
Mines is having success with its new 100-
ton per day flotation plant. A trifle over
92 p.c. recovery is reported, the gold-silver
complex ores responding well to fine grind-
ing. Also, contractors have started on the
54-mile race for the Snowy River Sluicing
Co. (Ikamatua, West Coast), and as soon as
the water comes through operations will
begin there.
The promoters, Industries, Ltd., are ask-
ing for £65,000 in ss. shares to enable the
Wetherstones G. M. Co. to work the cement
conglomerate at Lawrence, Otago (M.L.).
The open-east system of mining is proposed,
and it is hoped to treat 1500 c.y. per week.
The deposits are claimed to he worth 13s.
a yard ; costs are put at Bs. There is enough
material in the co.’s 100-acre claim to keep
the show going for the rest of this century.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
The A.M.P. Society announced that it
has reduced its interest charges to _54 p.e.
Does this apply to loans on policies? If
not, why?- —1961.
The society recently decided that as from
Sept. 1, 1932, interest on the mortgages of
properties at present bearing a higher rate
than 54 p.c. should he accepted at that rate
for a period of two years. This reduction
does not apply to loans on policies. Ex-
penses, and they are heavy, in connection
with loans on mortgage of property have to
be met by the mortgagor, whereas in the
ease of loans on policies in N.S.W. there
is no expense to the policy-holder. A mort-
gage of property is for a fixed and definite
period, whilst in the case of a loan on
policy, repayment of the advance is accepted
in any amount from £l upwards with-
out notice. Undoubtedly it costs the
society more to run its loans on policies
accounts than it does its : mortgagc accounts.
The directors, in framing their policy, had
to consider the best interests of the policy-
holders in general. The average of the loans
on policies in the A.’M.P. is under £lOO,
and for these, amounts 6 p.e. cannot be con-
sidered too high. Some of the smaller loans
of £5 do not pay the society even at 6 p.c.
Borrowers are exercising tlieir rights to the
disadvantage of other policy-holders, and
should pay a fair thing for the accommo-
dation.
Amount of gold in India? Amount sent
to Britain during last 12 months? Is this
likely to break the American and French
corner in the metal? —l7s3.
League of Nations Year-book shows mone-
tary 'stocks at the end of 1931 at 162 mil-
lion dollars. The amount of gold hoarded
in India is largely a matter of conjecture.
It has, however, been officially stated that
between 1873 and 1931 India added some
£547.000,000 to her hoards. Samuel Mon-
tagu and Co., the London goldsmiths, give
gold shipments from India to Britain from
Sept., 1931, to the beginning of August,
1932, as £55,123,000. This has greatly
assisted the pound sterling in its battle with
the dollar and the franc, and thus helped to
re-establish foreign confidence in sterling.
Assuming that the entire, hoard, or, say,
four-fifths of it* was released, and that re-
paration and war-debt payments" are can-
celled, the probable result would be the
cheapening of the metal in terms of sterling,
a rise iu the sterling price of other com-
modities and the revival of London as an
international lending centre. But as the
sterling price of gold fell there would be less
inducement for hoarders in India to part
with the metal, thus checking its flow to
London. Moreover, apart from distress sales
of the metal, Indian hoarders may take a
lot of convincing that bank credits would
be a better form than the metal in which
to hold their savings.
Briefly, history and present position of
Boulder Perseverance ( W.A.)? —2052.
Present co. bought the Perseverance leases
on the Golden Mile from an English syndi-
cate for £125,000 in paids in 1895. Ore
became impoverished below 700 ft. level;
above this over £3,000,000 worth of gold had
been extracted. For the 10 years to 1919
the mill treated 1,848,129 tons for bullion
worth £2,085,165, mined at a cost of
£1,917,435. In 1917 the mine was let to
tributors, but only two parties are now re-
ported to be operating. Since the reorgani-
sation in 1923 the value of output and the.
dividends paid on 2,495,866 shares of Is.
each have been as follows:
Output. Divs. Output. Divs.
1924.. £209,534 £17,685 1928.. £197,528 £12,479
1925.. 176,685 19,385 1929.. 224,355
1926.. 226,638 30,229 1930.. 178,930
1927.. 210,153 12,479 1931.. 205,743* 24,958
exchange premium.
At the end of 1931 ore reserves were put at
550,750 tons; recoveries averaged lldwt. over
the two year's to that date. New develop-
ments on the X lode at the 1100 ft. level have
disclosed a largo quantity of richer ore, not
yet fully measured up. This, exchange and
the new bromo-cyanide plant have brightened
the co.’s outlook. To help finance the
new plant, which has a capacity of 250
tons of ore per day. and had cost £46,048
at the end of June, £18,950 of 10 p.e. profit-
sharing notes were issued. These are pay-
able June 30, 1941, or at the co’s. option
after June 30, 1936; meanwhile they are
entitled to 50 p.c. of the net profits. The
new plant is reported to consume less power
and give a better extraction (94 p.c.) than
was expected. The scrip is at 2s. 7d. on the
market.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.F.G.: (1) The surrender value of a whole-life
will not be equal per £1 of premiums to that of an
endowment policy. The “Insurance Supplement” did
not favor endowment policies generally, but only where
an endowment was definitely required, in which case
it is a better proposition than surrendering a whole-
life policy. If you must let one policy lapse, and
want the proceeds of the other at 55, convert the
whole-life into a reduced paid-up policy, on which
no further premiums are payable, but which should
participate in bonuses. (2) Fairly strong... .C.U.P.
(or G.A.P.) : Unless you are quite satisfied, leave
it alone. We have been unable to get any
details of their finances... .T.W.E;: Don’t think
so R.E.0.: (1) No. (2) Co. owns a shore
factory to treat whales, but has no fleet
with which to catch them. (3) Yes. (4) Efforts
are being made to get English and Norwegian
interests to come in. See B. 18/11/’3l for review
of accounts W.D.McC.: See B. 27/l/’32....
M.T.T.: Keep out of it if safety of capital is im-
portant. Stocks worth consideration are National
Bank, Queensland Insurance, Morris Hedstrom, W. R.
Carpenter, Walter Reid... .C. 8.: At the end of
September last net tangibles exceeded the life fund by
£37,131, but whether the life fund was equal to the
liabilities under policies will not be known until
the actuary completes liis overhaul. Last balance-
sheet reviewed B. 23/12/’31... .A.McE.: Oroville
Dredging Co., Ltd. Secretary, G. E. Hounsom,
Lloyd’s Bank Buildings, 61 Moorgate, London, E.C.2.
F.A.B.: (1) The co. qualifies its own iron ore
from the Iron Knob, Iron Baron, etc., leases and
ships it from Whyalla, on Spencer’s Gulf, to New-
castle in its own steamers. The cost of .production
and carriage is not disclosed in the co.’s published
figures. (2) Although the stone has a relatively high
manganese content, the co. does not use manganese
ore as such... .L.G.8.: (1) £lO,OOO in 2s. 6d. shares.
(2) Lower part of Edie Creek. (3) Yes. (4) No.
Leases were sold to New Guinea Goldfields, Ltd., for
scrip, which will be distributed when received. (5)
A fair spec J.H.C.: It is unlikely that the
present co. will do anything with the property.
You may have to press your claim for brokerage
A.H.T.L.: (1) Fully-paid £1 shares recently sold
at £l7. (2) See “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” May, 1932.
. ...W.E.D.: They are a poor lot, and you may
have to wait a long time. Sell the last two.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Ilassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Adyt.
* * * *
Ideas.—Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Oollison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
LARGE CAPITAL AVAILABLE.—I have London
Capital available for Proved Gold Properties, also
Capital to develop. Inspection made in any part of
Commonwealth. Reply with some details to
“London,” c/o Mercantile Exchange, 380 Collins-
street, Melbourne, Cl. —Advt.
* * * *
WALTER E. CAMERON, B.A. (Cantab.), late
Economic Mining Geologist F.M.S. Govt., formerly
Deputy Chief Geologist Q. Govt. Advice and report?
on mining prospects. South British Building,
28 O’Connell Street, Sydney. Tel: B643l.—Advt.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
The Exchange Rate
It rests with the Commonwealth Bank, of
course, but probably no steps will be taken to
reduce the rate of exchange until the end of
the export season. If figures move as expected,
a reduction can be looked for about March
next. The rate will not, however, fall rapidly :
perhaps 2£ p.c. at a time. On Aug. 29 the
bank had £9,297,000 of money in London; in
the last 12 months all commitments there had
been met and about four millions added to
the funds. As this was at the beginuiug of
the export season, the position is regarded
as very satisfactory. The rise in prices will
add to the amount of exchange premium
which the bank will have to find. Some of
this will be lost when the rate is reduced;
but the bank lias been steadily building up a
reserve to cover it.
New Wills for Old
A bequest of £lO,OOO to the Newcastle
Cathedral has become valueless because of
death duties and slump; and it is only one
of many similar cases. It brings home forc-
ibly the necessity for revising wills made
while values were high; owing to the opera-
tion of executorship law, which is quite
fair in itself, a testator ignorant of its effect
may not be making anything like the pro-
vision for his dependants that he imagines.
After the liabilities of an estate have
been met, bequests of specified property arc
handed over first. Legacies payable out of
specified funds are the next charge, so long
as the funds still: exist. Then beneficiaries
for ordinary cash legacies come in. Residu-
ary legatees, of course, rank last. It is not
uncommon for a testator to bequeath part
of his real and personal property to his
sons and daughters, and to leave the residue
of his estate for his wife during her life-
time. In such a case it is likely that nearly
all losses and depreciation in the value of
the estate since making the will would be
first charged to the residue, possibly wiping
it out and eating into the general legacies,
as in the case quoted by the dean of New-
castle,
The need for expert legal advice by testa-
tors and inexperienced private executors thus
becomes very apparent.' If an executor
should p«v a legacy out of its legal order
of priority he becomes liable for all ante-
cedent debts, whether the estate is suffi-
cient to pay them or otherwise. That the
extra responsibility thrown on executors
during the present slump is appreciated by
the share market is shown by the weakness
of all trustee cos.’ shares on’ the Stock Ex-
changes, particularly those carrying an un-
called liability.
Protecting the Woolbuyer
Woolbuyers returning to Australia for
the opening of the season’s sales in Sydney
complained that they had been greatly dis-
appointed in the way some of their last
year’s purchases had opened up. There had
been carelessness in some cases and rank
dishonesty in a few. But it is hard to see
what further precautions can be taken. First
the wool is brought into the stores. From
each lot one or more bales are taken
(according to the size of the lot) and shown
on a floor where the lighting has had special
attention. These sample bales are opened
at ‘ the top.' First the selling brokers’ ex-
perts make an inspection of the samples and
value the lots. Their valuations are re-
ported to the growers, who may or may not
fix a reserve. Then the buyers make their
valuations. The “sampling” over, the opened
bales rejoin their mates. Immediately aftm-
the sale the buyers proceed to sample the
bulk. They take away fair-sized parcels,
and if they arc not satisfied that the bulk
thus arrived at is up to the sample exposed
and on which they valued, they have the
right of appeal. Every season seliing brokers
and buyers appoint arbitrators. If a dispute
arises each party chooses one of them. If
these can agree on the matter 1 in dispute,
they give a decision; if they can’t agree,
they must choose a referee, whose decision is
final. A dispute over a lot does not often
■occur; when it does occur it is apt to do
the grower no good, and in the very rare bad
case lie finds that the selling broker does 1 net
again welcome his business. Generally there
is most trouble with' what are known as
“star” lots—-four bales and under. (They are
called star lots because they used to be in-
cluded in the general catalogue, but distin-
guished by an asterisk to denote that they
would be disposed of after the unstarred
lots had been got rid of.)
Stored Wheat
The liquidation of the milling and wheat-
trading business of Verco Bros, has involved
a heap of worry for farmers who stored their
wheat with this old firm. For many years
it has been the practice of farmers to “store”
the unsold portion of their marketable wheat
with merchants. The storage warrant pro-
vides, as a rule, that the merchant under-
takes to deliver back to the farmer wheat
of an equal quantity and quality on demand
and on payment of charges incurred, or to
buy the wheat when the farmer decides to
sell.
. When the wheat is delivered its identity
is lost. The position is further complicated
by advances made by the merchant to the
grower. In the event of the bankruptcy
of a firm holding stored wheat, the Privy
Council has declared in the past that such
wheat becomes the property of the creditors
of the bankrupt and that the original
owners ’ of the stored wheat merely come
in as ordinary creditors.
Interest in Yerco’s “stored” wheat was
first roused when a score of farmers at
Panlla removed 8000 bags of wheat to
another stacking site on the plea that it was
theirs and not the firm’s (or the liquida-
tors ). ihreat of legal proceedings nipped any
other similar transfer in the bud. The farmers
who stored their wheat then appealed to the
Government for legislation which would de-
clare that all wheat held by the bankrupt
hrm was the property of the farmers hold-
ing storage certificates. The Attorney-Gen-
eral referred the matter to the Crown Solici-
* t> i»° a( vlsec * that it was not the duty
of Parliament to usurp the functions of the
Court, and that even if the proposed legis-
lation could be made good in law it was
giving- preference to one section of creditors
at the expense of others. Moreover, such
legislation could apply only to the stored
wheat held by a company but not of a co-
operative, because of the Federal Bankruptcy
law. Thereupon the Premier decided to
drop the business. Cocky members of the
Opposition, however, decided to take the
matter up and one of them drafted a bill
for the purpose of enabling the farmers to
repossess their “stored” wheat, or what is
left of it; and in a weak moment Butler, the
Opposition leader, consented to introduce the
measure. But it hasn’t Buckley’s chance
of getting through.
With regard to the old “storage” of wheat,
the system may be wrong, butt it works both
ways. Two years ago thousands of farmers
throughout Australia held about 10,000,000
bushels on storage with merchants from
the 1929-30 harvest. From 3s. to 4s. per
bushel was advanced on the wheat. The
world slump came and prices crashed to
round about 25., at which most of the stored
wheat was sold. The winding up of that
season’s stored wheat left farmers in the
debt of merchants probably to the extent of
£1500,000. Much of it will never be repaid.
Incidentally, it was the heavy loss in this
respect -which gave the 50-year-old firm of
Verco a bump from which it did hot re-
cover.
Wool-sale Bidding
“Xerophyte”; So long as wool is bought on
its estimated yield, so long must the buyer
be allowed a margin for error ; and, as he
must always give his firm the benefit of the
doubt, the producer must suffer. I can offer
no alternative, but 1 do think bids should be
taken in eighths of a penny, instead of in
farthings. A buyer may be quite sure a line
of wool is worth more than 6d., possibly
(J 3-16 d. Yet, as things are, 6d. must be
his limit. An eighth of a penny more all
round for a 50-bale clip would mean over
£8 to the grower—not a huge sum, but. as
good as an extra bale of wool, and about
enough these times to keep the owner in
clothes for 12 months.
Cigar Tobacco
“Friar Tuck” ; Bulletin (24/8/’32) men-
tions Jamaica as the only British colony
exporting cigar leaf. Thirty-five years ago
Sir William MacGregor introduced a good
cigar leaf to Queensland from the Fly
Biver. Ever since then it has been discour-
aged by manufacturers and the Agricultural
Department. Only last year the latter told me
frankly that the Government was discourag-
ing cigar leaf, as the demand was principally
for cigarette tobacco. Besides, they had no
one who knew how to mature it and bring
out the flavor. Still, I was recommended
to keep some seed, and so preserve the
strain, as something might be done at some
future date. We are told we must produce
more. Well, here is something new to try.
We have the soil, the climate and the seed.
Surely it is the Agricultural Department’s
job to supply the necessary expert advice.
Better to try and fail than never try at all.
Tractors in Harvest Time
“Myola”: One of the masterpieces of the
late N.S.W. Government was a set of regu-
lations designed to control fires at harvest
time. In my own case I have to buy two
fire extinguishers (575. 6d. each) and carry
a heap of other truck. To- make Gosling’s
regulations of any value it would be neces-
sary for me to have men carrying these
extinguishers behind the machinery, or a
couple of men riding backwards on the
header. On a windy day in a heavy crop
even this would be ineffective. Until some
device is invented which will make it impos-
sible for a combustion engine to set. fire to
a crop, tlie farmer should be required to
have an effective ploughed break at least
half a chain wide right around his crop;
then, in case of fire, he only would suffer.
And some measure should be passed to pre-
vent the over-insurance of crops. The present
regulations ought to be wiped right out.
“Tidapa”: An unusual bouquet was hurled
our way during a discussion in the Straits
Settlements Federal Council when the ques-
tion of Mai ova’s export trade to Canada was
under revision. According to statistics sup-
plied, the export of tinned pineapples to
Canada had dropped 95 per cent, during the
last six months. In the discussion that
followed it was alleged that the local (Ma-
layan ) product was packed any old way—•
in foul tins, with underripe fruit, or with
not enough sugar—whereas the Australian
product consisted of sound, even, ripe fruit,
excellently packed. It: was admitted that it
was the sheer superiority of the Australian
pack which had absolutely cut out the
Malayan product from the Canadian market.
It was even declared that in the Straits
Settlements themselves the Australian canned
pineapple was finding a ready sale.
* * * *
London “Economist” in making up its
wholesale price-index divides commodities
into five groups, and, taking the average of
1927 as a basis (- 100), these groups stood
as follows in September, 1931, just before
England went off gold, and at the end of
last month';
Svpt.,’3l. Aug., ’32.
Cereals and meat .. 68.0 65.5
Other food products 68.1 61.2
Textiles .. .. 49.5 50.8
Minerals . . .. 72.9 72.9
Miscellaneous .. 68.9 60.7
A satisfactory feature is that textiles, includ-
ing wool, have improved month by month
since June. The index figure for all com-
modities at the end of August was, however,
still 10 points above that for textiles; so
on the law of averages the rise in wool was
due and should last. The position of min-
erals at the head of the list is accounted for
by the regulation of output.
* * *
Adelaide is forming a co. to reconstruct
the old Matthew Goode warehouse into an
arcade of shops, on Melbourne lines, to lie
called the Block Buildings, with all the
plate glass possible, and a Crystal Walk
as its ground-floor feature. The site is
between Bundle-street and North Terrace,
and parallel to both, running from Gawler-
place to Stephens-place—about 60 yards.
=l= * *
Last year, when the West Darling country
was flooded and there were bogs right in the
heart of Australia, the camel came back for
a while. But motor traction is on the
throne again, and in a Quarter Sessions case
at: Broken Hill the other day a station-
manager, asked to value some camels, said
he should say they were worth “about 10
bob a pair.” '
“The Dreamer”: Talk about your 30-hour
week! Why, a neighbor of mine, scarcely
more than a youth, in a desperate struggle
to keep his holding, worked SO hours with one
break of six hours, and other breaks of no
more than an hour each, during the last
cropping season. I have heard of many
remarkable performances, but this one beats
them all. It meant about 74 hours’ work
in SO hours.
THE DOCTOR’S DILEMMA.
“The N. S. Wales Government has found great difficulty in formulating a plan of Upper House reform which would
be acceptable to present members of the Chamber, most of whom must disappear. In advancement of its aims of reform
17 new nominees of the Government have been sworn in.”
THE SPECIALIST: “His family wants him reformed, and I know how to do it. But can I get him to agree to the
treatment?”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal (com. Saturday) .. “The Medea” of Euripides
Her Majesty's “Bitter Sweet”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Grand Opera
King's “The Good Fairy”
State Movies and Talkies
♦
The Life of the Broadcaster
Back in the early days of mechanised
sound reproduction the proud possessor of a
phonograph, placing on the instrument what
looked like a brown mug with the bottom
chipped out, would hear a metallic voice
propound the statement: “De Blubablu War
Sez I Souse, Payby Jom Jommelson, Zibbel-
iss Coll Lubbear Recor.” Correlating this
with previous experience he would know
that he was about to hear a Columbia
recording of a xylophone performance of
Strauss’s “Blue Danube Waltz,” played
by Tom Thompson. Incidentally, though he
didn’t know it, he was hearing the first
fledgling notes of a bird which, it is now
asserted, will flap its wings in triumph
over the conquered nest of the Fourth
Estate. The Radio Announcer, even now,
is with us all day long, prepared, if we will
let him, to direct our destiny from morning
tub to bye-bye. Unlike his ancestor of the
phonograph days his enunciation is a re-
proach to the down-at-heels English most of
us employ in daily speech. His knowledge
is cyclopaedic; his rightness is as unshak-
able as the Rock, of Gibraltar.; his gentle
firmness is inexorable. You have only one
defence against him —you can turn him off
at the tap like those elemental powers, water,
gas and electricity.
This Showman has often speculated as
to the habits and customs of this race of
supermen. Frith, who is beginning to know
far more about Sydney than it is good for
a young and innocent artist to know, dis-
covered a nest or burrow of them in Market-
street, obtained the entree to the hive in
his usual disingenuous and engaging manner,
and inveigled the Showman into accom-
panying him thither. The following notes
on the life of the Announcer may not be
entirely free from error, but the investi-
gation was carried out under
difficulties. Unlike the work-
ers in jam factories, who are
so darned sick of jam that they
would sooner jump off the Har-
bor Bridge than so much as lick a
linger while on duty, Announcers,
like the lady of Banbury Cross,
have music wherever they go.
The only time an Announcer’s
ear-drums are unassailed by
radio products is when he is
himself engaged in manufac-
turing. and as he has to hear
himself he has no let-up at all,
at all. Nature in time comes
to his rescue .by permitting him
to hear things without listen-
ing to them. Announcers can
converse placidly together while
45 trombones and six big
drums perform “The Battle of
Prague,” but it isn’t easy for
an untutored savage from out-
side to converse with them.
Hence, though the Showman
doubtless was told a great deal
about the radio business, he
missed most of it, and had to
rely almost solely on his own
powers of observation.
The approach to the radio
hive is not very awe-inspiring.
You could pass it 20 times
a day without noticing it.
Just a door, and by the side
of it a plate announcing the
abode of the Australian Broad-
casting Commission (N.S.W.
Division). Commissions, in
current Australian ideology,
are places where people go to forget, but this
Commission is not one of that sort. It’s a
place where people have to remember, and re-
member punctually. You go up in a lift
the size of a coffin which has been licensed
by some optimist in the Weights and
Measures Department to carry eight persons.
Getting past tbe inquiry office, which is easy
when Frith is your cicerone, you meet the
cheerful individual delineated in Fig. 1.
Frith, who has placed this specimen and
the others on paper, educed their proper
names by making them sign tbe diagram.
Fig. 1 provided an introduction to Fig. 2,
Captain Stevens, who might be mistaken for
Rudyard Kipling but for tbe fact that he
wears his coat buttoned up and has an
awful lot of pockets in it —indubitable sign
of master mariner, retired. Captain
Stevens lias been in China, Peru, Senegam-
bia, Switzerland, Spitzbergen, Nova Zembla,
the Aleutian Islands and Antarctica, and it
“Conversing placidly while 45 trombones
and six big drums perform ‘The Battle of
Prague.’”
is no hardship to him to talk about his
travels, though he loves to pretend that it
is. They put him on to bedtime-uncle duty
once and he didn’t catch on. He can
only tel] the truth, such as the story
of the time he was captured and eaten
alive by cannibals, whereas other and less-
travelled Announcers can give free range
to their imagination. But if you want to
brush up on your geography, ethnology, an-
thropology and comparative sociology, with
excursions into the art of navigation (with
or without the use of logarithms), Fig. 2
should be your lodestar. He’s at his best
on Sundays.
Fig. 3 is an Announcer of a more highly
mechanised and modern type. No Announ-
cer feels happy unless he has a pile of
gramophone records at his elbow and two
eternally revolving disc-tables close at hand
(two, in case onei breaks down). This char-
acteristic has been catered for in all up-to-
date broadcasting studios. So Fig. 3, who
looks like a pug. and speaks like a Professor
of English does when proffimg, has a desk
fitted up like that with a mike in the middle,
a disc-table (steadily revolving) on either
hand, and a little table at the side to
stack the records on. Fig. 3 gave speci-
mens of his Announcerial manner, which is
immense.
Figs. 4 and 5 were found in captivity in
a large apartment equipped with a grand
piano as well as revolving disc-tables. They
were watched through a double-glass sound-
proof window by a gentleman who had at
his disposal a vast switchboard. With this
he controlled them, and doubtless could have
abolished them had he so desired. Fig. 4
usually sits at a table meditating gloomily,
but he occasionally skips to the piano with
great agility and accompanies a singer, when
his expression brightens, as indicated in the 1
diagram. Fig. 5, on the occasion of the Show-
man’s visit, occupied himself with announc-
ing gramophone records and chatting amic-
ably while they were being run off. This
breach of the rule of silence ; in the studio
is mercifully made possible by a device
which snakes the melody on to the air
through a pipe under the table, as it were.
It is. heard in the studio, but only after it
has journeyed to Pennant Hills and back,
after which it doesn’t matter how much the
boot is put into it. Similarly the chap in
the control-room hears the music poured
out by performers in the adjoining studio by
relay, or whatever they call it, from Pennant
Hills. He deals, not with the raw material,
but the completed product, as it were, and
he can make it louder or softer by snapping
a switch. Also he can signal to the per-.
foi'mer or performers, asking'for a louder
or a softer accompaniment to a song, for
SOME SYDNEY BROADCASTERS.
Fig. 1, J. Hall; Fig. 2, Capt. Stevens; Fig. 3, Bryson Taylor; Fig. 4, John Carlton-Fay;
Fig . 5, C. Charlton; Fig. 6, Frank Hatherley; Fig. 7, H. G. Horner.
a singer or speaker to move nearer to or
further from the mike, and so on. In con-
tradistinction to the Announcers, who for
their peace of mind have to learn not to
listen, he must listen, discriminatingly and
attentively. Thus is labor divided.
Fig. 6 is Frank Hatberley, leader of com-
munity sing-songs, alias “Bobby Bluegum.”
He needs no introduction to anyone who
listens in. Even the Showman knew him at
once. In order to be able to represent in the
diagram the sine and cotangent of his justly
celebrated smile it was necessary, while
Frith was sketching him, to speak upon con-
genial topics. That was easy. Mr. Hather-
ley has just become the father of a baby boy,
and if you think there’s anything more comi-
cal in life than that —well, just look at the
diagram!
Fig. 7 is not an Announcer. The speci-
men belongs to a higher order, and lives in
a large private office entirely surrounded by
telephones and pulchritudinous typists.
When the Showman, who had been on the
premises fully 25 minutes, airily informed
this magnate that he (the Showman) knew
all about how the broadcasters worked Fig. 7
wearily replied that he wished he did. The
great are like that. Humble, and a trifle
ambiguous. Their slightest remark gives you
something to think about. What did lie
mean?
Violinist Szigeti and his ,Itussian and
princely accompanist, Magaloff, played to an
immense house at Melb. Town Hall on Satur-
day night. The program me-—both the
printed one and its spiritual distillation, the
playing—was princely, too. Sonatas by
Corelli, Bach and Debussy, a concerto by
Mozart, something Hebraic by the compara-
tively modern Ernest Bloch and a long and
variegated tail was something more than a
popular audience can usually bite off, let
alone chew, but enthusiasm never waned. It is
difficult and probably unnecessary to say what
Szigeti’s music is like. Pianist Magaloff hovers
round Szigeti’s skirts, patting the pleats into
place and putting a touch in here and a
touch there, but always in the right spot.
Only the greatly talented can efface them-
selves in this way. The only unwarranted
intrusion of extraneous effects were the
three cadenzas in the Mozart concerto, and
they weren’t by Szigeti, but by the violinist-
composer Joachim. The cadenza business
strikes present writer as wholly fraudulent
and ridiculous, as if a painter were to leave
a square foot of bare canvas in a portrait
to be filled in by the purchaser according
to his own ideas. The Debussy sonata was
as grotesque in outline as a stone Chinese
“He can make it louder or softer by
snapping a switch.”
lion and stuffed with all the familiar Debussy
tricks. The Bloch piece was thinly-veiled
nineteenth-century romanticism, plus the
wrong notes which substantiate the claim to:
its being a modern work. Szigeti played
this, as he played the rest, with the snme
solid rectitude, but it was in the Bad}. that
he displayed his dazzling skill to the best
advantage. He varied his accents in recur-
ring phrases with the good sense and deli-
cacy of a poet of the violin.
* * *
Clad in the costume left him by a pre-
vious exponent of the role, since deceased,
John Brownlee sang and acted - his way
through ithe part of the deformed jester of
“Rigoletto” -at Melb. Royal on Saturday
night and there was a full house to see him
do it. The Geelong baritone once more
demonstrated that there is more than one
way of acting an operatic role. The sup-
pressed fury of the Duke of Mantua’s butt,
his bitter hatred of his persecutors and the
possessive love of daughter Gilda were con-
vincingly conveyed, and the confused and
sometimes profound emotions of the tor-
mented old man were felt more strongly
because the actor did not attempt to look
anything but the clown whose sole claim to
dignity was the size and scope of his revenge.
Brownlee’s voice does not reach the artesian
depths of Granforte’s, but if there was less
resonance in it, there was more sense of the
words. This week it is to be heard again in
“Aida,” “Tosea” and “Boheme.”
# # *
The Four Arts Theatre Club, Sydney,
had an appreciative audience at its Mal-
colm-lane playhouse for its production of
Pablo d’Este’s “Favila,* a drama 6f Spanish
village life, concerned mainly with bull-
fighting and love-making. Paul Furniss
played the leading r6lc, produced the play
and designed the costumes. Althea Glasby
took'two rSles and, apart from a tendency
to overact, was convincing in both. Florence
Page, Ena Reid and May Bailey gave good
characterisations. With the exception of the
lead the male members of the cast were a
weak lot, though Dudley Irving raised a
latigh now and then.
* * v .y.
A quick-change G. and S. season at Adel-
aide Royal opened with “The Mikado.” The
familiar airs are. given by a strong crowd,
Darnton, Menzies, Ralston, Manning. Stroud,
Marie Bremner and Mary Hotham, all
painstakingly Japanese except Menzies, who
is out after , the rlaughs by every means at
command, v and gets them. The ladies piled
on the local color so thick as to disfigure
themselves; and’it was pleasant to' see their
own features in a dainty rendering of
“Patience.” Slapoffski is as sound as ever
with the conductor’s baton.
V * 9
H. W. Varna produced “Common, Clay”
■for, charity at St. James’s Hall, Sydney, last
week, and took the part of tlie lawyer, receiv-
ing fair support fronijack Westwood, Carl
Beresford and; Florence Clark. The court
scene'was the mosf convincing part of the
business. * " '
SHADOW SHOWS.
Bad Hollywood movies differ from bad
English ones inasmuch as they often have
touches of lunatic originality; and, of course,
they are immeasurably better on the tech-
nical side. Sequences in the worst of them
are liable to give visual pleasure because
the directors usually know something about
composition, “The Flesh and the Devil”
““-.Begent is a case in point. It is the
first him Australia has seen with a Bolshie
murderer as the hero. George Bancroft, a
lower-deck revolutionary, captures a batch
or fleeing aristos, among whom i,s Miriam
Hopkins. Proceedings start promisingly
with _ a series of realistic sets. You see the
Lzanst machine-guns mowing down the citi-
zens; the rich revelling and the poor suffer-
ing ; the revolutionaries creeping into the
town; the bayoneting of the sentries; the
arrest of the nobles. Then the thing sud-
denly degenerates into an old-time nautical
beliowdrama, with a great-hearted sailor-lad.
comic sailor friend and naval rescue party
complete. It was strange on Saturday
night to hear delighted cheers as the simple
Bolshie steersman, whom a Czarist liad tried
to trick, by the low device of using a magnet
on the ship’s compass, explains to his leader,
Bancroft, that he had steered by the stars.
It ends preposterously with Bancroft,
cleansed of blood and sweat and deodorised
spiritually by the agency of a great love,
striding off to Petrograd and companionate
marriage, with Miss Hopkins caught up in
his mighty proletarian arms: If past movie
history is any criterion talkie patrons are
now in for a surfeit of revolutionary Rus-
sian heroes played by Yankee stars, with
the British bumbling along on the same tack
several months later.- A grim thought.
In “Bachelor Affairs,” Adolphe Menjou,
a, middle-aged millionaire, marries Joan
Marsh, an, erotic flapper. He is worn to
a shadow ,by his efforts to go the pace with
her and her lively. friends,; and eventually
finds repose and true affection in the mature
arms of Minna : Gombell. Menjou never
minds making a fool of himself, and he does
it , well in this show. Herbert Mondin. an
Englishman who is the best valet in Movie-
dom, looks after him, and gets many laughs.
The dialogue is exceptionally bright.
** • *
“Congorilla,” at Sydney Plaza, might be
called a jungle film to * end jungle films. It
has all the familiar :sht>ts of zebras, birds
monkeys, lions, etc., and, as innovations,
an explorer’s wife ■ who gets in front of the
camera whenever possible, and is very try-
ing; jungle sounds which are said to have
been synchronised on the spot, and a tribe of
pigmies. There is the usual heavily facetious
Yankee announcer (“The hippos are yawning-
all down the river an’ I guess the audience is
yawning too.”), but he blithers less than
his predecessors. The pigmies behave like
Hollywoodites. Particularly those who dance
a kind of hula-hula under the leadership of
Mrs. Johnson, and the two comedians who
waste hundreds of matches trying to light a
cigar. If the last-named aren’t sophisticate.!
niggers providing, a, film-director’s idea of
how jungle-dwellers might be expected to
react to white men’s luxuries, then the
writer doesn’t know American acting when
he sees it. The gorillas strike a new note,
but on the whole the film has the dulness
of an oft-told tale. Let’s hope it’s the last
of them.
“Double Dealing”/ satirises an English
Watch Committee-—a Yorkshire variant on
the Birmingham one that banned George
Robey. The nephew, of the chief committee-
man gets engaged-to an actress, and is told
he will be Then the heroine
reveals that the uncle goes on binges in
London, and arranges to be caught in a com-
promising position .with him. The hero, a
journalist, threatens a- newspaper exposure
if there is any more talk of disinheriting
him, and the uncle caves in. The chief
weaknesses of this - picture, apart from its
idiotic plot, are tlie crude- photography, the
dialogue (one of • the. jokes is the vener-
able “Married men don’t live longer; it
seems longer”), and- the stale Hollywood
ideas. They are nearly all there—the high-
pressure newspaper, office with noisy jour-
nalists in shirt-sleeves and eyeshades; the
back-stage scenes with, half-naked chorines:
the night-club speakeasy and the police raid.
The only English features are the slow
tempo (at one stage the uncle holds up the
continuity for minutes with irrelevant
Yorkshire patter), . and the voices. Frank
Pettingcll is funny asAhe uncle and Sydney
Fairbrother does fine work as his wife- It
is sad to see artists oP,their class wasted on
such rubbish.
* # *
“The Innocents .of Chicago,” at Sydney
State, is an English> satire on an American
gangster. Henry Kendall is a Wodehousian
Englishman who .inherits what he thinks
is a Chicago milk business. It is a boot-
logging concern, and bis fatuity contrasts
comically with the grim taciturnity of the
desperadoes against whom he is pitted. The
film might have been a ; winner three or
four years ago; as it is, the underworld slang
which puzzles the . hero falls flat. Every
Englishman knows what being “taken for a
ride” means nowadays. The rough-and-
tumble fight at the finish is rather overdone.
Lupino Lane directed it.
The plot of “Unashamed” has been worn
to shreds, the sentiment is cheap, and the
unexplained details afe as leaves in Vallom-
brosa. Some will - say that the producer
achieves his very worst work in the trial
scene, but it is all awful. Helen Twelve-
trees does her s best with a ridiculous part:
Lewis Stone is a - lawyer, and Jean Hersholt
is a maudlin old father.
# * *
“The Famous Ferguson Case,” at Sydney
Haymarkct, is an . indictment of trial by
newspaper. When the • banker is slain rau-
cous,, beer-swilling .newshounds, tabloid and
otherwise, butt in and* get everything wrong.
Tbe hero, working,quietly in conjunction with
flic, police, clears, matters up and convicts the
journalists of being asses as well as hooli-
gans: 'The show Ims plenty of tlmlls, noise
and movement, but it's childish stufl Joan
Blondell, Leslie. Fenton and Kenneth Thom-
son are in the ■ cast/


“THE 'WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
FOR SEPTEMBER,
NOW ON SALE
Will prices recover to 1928
levels?
The future of Consols.
Outlook for Industrials.
The metal markets.
These and many other questions of
vital interest to investors are dis-
cussed in the September issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Oflices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . .
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
1 WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1119 of 1932.
Between JOSEPHINE VIOLET DINGLE Petitioner
And HENRY WISE DINGLE Respondent.
To HENRY WISE DINGLE.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Josephine Violet
Dingle has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying that her marriage
with you may be dissolved wherein she alleges that
you have been guilty of desertion for three years
and upwards. AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said suit at
the proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Second day of December One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-two and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit will be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the Petition filed herein
may be had on application from the undersigned
Solicitor free of charge.
Dated this 9th day of September, 1932.
For the Registrar,
[L.S.] E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ROBERT SPROULE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH
AUSTRALIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 513 of 1932.
Between ALICE MAY lIOLLERHEAD Plaintiff
And ROBERT GEORGE HOLLERHEAD Defendant.
To ROBERT GEORGE HOLLERHEAD whose last
known address was 27 Lai Lal-street Ballarat.
NOTICE is hereby given to ROBERT GEORGE
HOLLERHEAD whose last known address was at
27 Lai Lal-street Ballarat in the State of Victoria
that a Writ has been issued in the Supreme. Court
of South Australia in an action in which his wife
ALICE MAY HOLLERHEAD claims an Order for
divorce on the grounds of his adultery with one
Sarah Harvey and in such action his wife intends
to ask for an Order for custody of the child of the
marriage and for maintenance and for costs and if
the said Robert George Hollerhead desires to be
heard in opposition to the claim for any of such
Orders, he must file an appearance in the office of
the Master of the Supreme Court of South Australia
within 60 days of the date of . the latest, advertise-
ment directed to be published in this action, other-
wise Orders may be made against him in his absence.
JOSEPH REGINALD KEARNAN,
38 Grenfell Street, Adelaide,
Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
Legal Notice.
IN THE'SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND.
* Wellington District.
No. 3028.
In Divorce.
To LIONEL WILLIAM DORREEN late of West
Maitland New South Wales Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Welling-
ton citing you to appear and answer the petition of
Helen Iris Dorreen of Wellington, wherein she prays
for a dissolution of her marriage with you on. the
grounds of separation for a period of not less than
three years, or alternatively desertion and such
citation intimates that in default of your so doing
the Court will proceed to hear the said petition
and to pronounce sentence therein notwithstanding
your absence. NOW THEREFORE take notice that
for the purpose aforesaid you are within thirty-five
days after the date of this publication to attend in
person or by your Solicitor at the Supreme Court
Office at Wellington and there to enter an appearance
and file an answer without which you will not be
allowed to address the Court at any stage of the
proceedings. . . , ....
| A copy of the said citation and petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same at
I the Supreme Court Office at Wellington.
Dated this 15th day of August, 1932.
(Signed) C. MASON,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly requested
to forward to him the foregoing advertisement.
BERTRAM EGLEY is the Solicitor for the Petitioner,
whose address for service is at the office of
Messieurs Egley and Robieson, Solicitors, 100
Lambton Quay/ Wellington, This is the only in-
| sertion.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
The Open Letters Of John Prudence
Ph °« e W2aes
fS LISEs)
iohn -
f
N
.1
B
Dear John,
* Indite fflv P .
J!" la the to you *-« you are
? f the fawuv Batl °* the fa ~ 6 iffi^ta* t
r-- - *
a ±fairs thaf +£ lks Co^mif+P n T -f ar Qv ,| e head
~ 1 ‘" ,, “- ' ~* m - r»*StfSs&
t 0 Schafe f ° rtUnate to
%s;*r ‘=S5l ; s«s*»»..
”' “ »»<■«S, -“Si," **■• ...«,,
p r it h holds eC s i e
f0 °* Of thf s V*
y °“sfor a „.' '-
y °ur s f or
a oaured f uture>
p. St Yo^
assets beh?nd W it° f 00 «nse. tha+ *
** s ° you area®; J*f p ™ciential >,
- aay rl P k has £255,Q0o t ooo i a
*
.1932
4l
.??V rJ
a
K
g£::
te
. r ‘/.'*•■
Ipf
pi
ife,
itl*
To THE PRUDENTIAL ASSURANCE CO. LI D
Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Name -
Address - -
Age next birthday....
„ . r Whole Life
State Whether [or Endowment


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
pjosion, Workers’ Compensation,
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . . . .
Total Reserves approximately , .
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately . .
Area Planted . . . . . , . , . > |
£241,341
£3,500,000
£900,000
£500,000
32,126 Acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong, San Francisco, Vancouver and Paris'.
NO
BOOK
OVER
WOKS
NEW BOOKS
ON EVERY SUBJECT
Fiction Games
Home-arts Motors
Carpentry Electricity
Gardening: Wireless
Classics, Economics, etc.
Mechanics Technical
Detailed Lists Post Free—WRITE TO-DAY
Address
CENTRAL ARCADE,
P.O. BOX KBll PERTH, W.A.
f
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merehants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
If any illustration in ‘‘The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
ABORIGINALITIES
SOME ’E'D TRUST AN’ SOME ’E WOULDN'
“ Any of 'ee that got the money can 'ave lick, an' all of 'ee that caan't get tick must
pay cash."
“Nimrip”: “Yarra-bandi’s” theory CB
21/8/’B2) that “Never Never” had its
origin in the stickfast, pipeclay bogs of
inland streams and watercourses is many
miles astray. The term originated in the
Cooper’s Creek country in the ’sixties, and
was a euphemism for the interior still further
out —the unknown west. That was how
Barcroft Boake interpreted it when, more
than 40 years ago, he wrote his song
of the “Never Never Band,” and described
it as a place where “the stockman knows
no water flows; where the shifting mirage
comes and goes like a spectral Paradise.”
When old John Costello was pioneering the
Cooper’s Creek country in the ’sixties he
knew what “Never Never” meant. He spent
many anxious weeks searching the region
for traces of Cornelius and Albert Prout, two
Sydney boys who had gone westward seeking
the land “where the pelican builds her nest,”
a tragic incident that inspired Mrs. Mary
Hannah Foott to write the poem with that
refrain. Every schoolboy in Q’land knows
that the Never Never lies out back o’ sunset,
where the mirage stages, its daily illusion in
the summer.
“O’ Jones”: I have met a new Australian.
In ebon darkness a stranger came along
Yarra’s bank, near Healesville, and stood
behind me as I baited the hook. He
held his lantern where its light would
assist me, then over my shoulder ex-
plained a method of baiting that was so
novel that I thought it revolutionary.
It surprised me to meet a fisherman who
wasn t as close as a clam on such a valuable
matter of technique But lie surprised me
still more when he told me of an unsuspected
spot in the district where good trout could
be obtained. The man’s sociability so
warmed me that I found myself admiring
even the quiet ingenuous tone of his voice,
llis speech had literary quality—he spoke
°f “casting out into the little ripples beyond
the broken water.” Then I detected a sug-
gestion of huskiness in his voice that I had
been familiar with in altogether another
part of Australia. I screwed around, and
saw that I was conversing with one of the
second generation from the abo. camp at
the Corranderk reserve.
* * * ij:
“Vil N.”: Dave, iCorb and I hiked 35
miles from the tragic railway dead-end at
Kurrajong (N.S.W.) to the Colo river. To
dodge the frosts that had blasted the sur-
rounding acres of mandarin-trees we camped
on the grassy river-bank for the night. A
wind blew down the valley colder than an
undertaker's hand, the frosty stars glittered
as balefully as the eyes of iOOO mas-in-law,
tlio blankets shrank and the other two
(they call themselves my cobbers, too!)
were to lazy to get up and relight the fire:
s 0 we lay there and shivered so hard that
we wore out the groundsheet. However,
night passed, the shallow, sandy river steamed
in the sunlight, the crystallised bracken
turned brown again, a lyrebird up the valley
mocked a sewing-machine, and our bacon
sizzled promisingly. Then we heard three
queer clicking noises coming from the spot
where we had slept. We investigated, but in
the .now-sunny grass could find no insects,
no cause for these castanet-like sounds. Sud-
denly the explanation dawned on me. Our
toetli had boon chattering all through the
night, but we were only hearing them now
because the .sounds had frozen and the sun
was just commencing to thaw them out.
“Kar Kar”: Papua and New r Guinea
have always been famous for their outsize
snakes. Recently in the Madang district
of Mandated New r Guinea, parents noticed
that their small daughter was a.w.l.
After a long search in the surrounding
INSPIRATION.
Poet: "Wheie the blazes is my seedsman's catalogue? How’d you expect me to write
a spring- poem without it?”
bush the child was discovered half way
down the throat of a big python. The poor
nipper was dead, of course., The search
party slew the snake and took it and the
child to the local missionary, who duly re-
ported the occurrence, giving the length of
the snake as 23ft
"Black Ball'’: Touching those
hairless pigs on Tamia, in the
New Hebrides (B. 31/8/’.‘l2), it
should be said that they are’ to
be found in other islands of the
group. Whatever may be the
case in these civilised days, they
were years ago tended more care-
fully than the native children,
and usually kept tied up. As
far as I was able to find out they
were never eaten, but were aii
outward and visible sign of
affluence. When the headman
or other potentate of one village
wanted to call on a neighbor of
his own kidney, lie generally took
his pigs with him and compared
them with the other fellow’s
grunters, more or less disparag-
ingly. When several of these
pig-fanciers were gathered to-
gether the atmosphere was that
of an agricultural show. My first
contact wi t h th e precious
porkers was when shooting
pigeons in the jungle-covered
hills. The party was resting by
a native footpath when a pro-
minent citizen hove in sight.
With him were three or four
bald pigs, each led on a rattan
by a perspiring woman who also
carried a long bamboo water-
holder. The wayfarer paused
to speak to us, and as he did one
of the women tried to a
drink from her water-holder. An
angry command from her lord
stayed her, and she obediently
poured the liquid over the back
of the pig she was leading before the party
resumed its journey.
“O. W. W aireki : “I have a rough spin,”
sighed llenare, after his first visit to the
city. “A fight start at a street corner,
an’ I cheer on te winner, when a John
Hop come an’ end te fun. He take my
name, an’ say I must come to court. I
never peen in a court pefore, so I ask him
what I have to do. ‘Just what you are
told to do,’ he .say. I step up pefore te Judge,
an’ he say ‘Swear te witness.’ Py Chove,.
I get knee knocks, an’ te tongue can’t move.
‘Swear te witness,' he say again, an’ a ferrer
rush to me with a hot face an’ a pook. ‘You
swear py’ he start to snap, but I get
desperate an’ chip in, with mighty voice,
‘Tam an’ prast te prurry witness!’ to satisfy
everyone. T'en te Judge turn nasty an’
give me nine days for corrupting court!”
“Macropus”: Those Aboliars who have
been arguing the pros and cons of the
kangaroo’s fighting capacity have had the
question settled once and for all by a recent
Sydney happening. A Randwiek family was
the possessor of an old-man hopper who had
been brought up from joey hood with the
kids. One of these was accidentally shot as
the result of the discovery of an old pistol.
A neighbor, a hefty police sergeant, jumped
into the yard and went to the rescue of
the dying boy. As he was bending over
he was kicked across the yard; and, turn-
ing to see who his assailant was, had just
time to ward off the old man. When help
arrived, the policeman was practically
stripped of clothing and was badly cut in
several places, though he mixed it for all
he was worth with' the kangaroo. The latter
was finally downed and tied up. but not
before the bobby had had the go of his
life. The sergeant used bad tactics in
fighting back. The proper move was to
get hold of his attacker’s tail and hold it
off the ground. The feat does not require
much strength, and the ’roo is practically
impotent for harm when he is literally cut
off from his base.
Frig”: Warrigal is not such a coward
as many suppose. After a long drought a
dingo persisted in raiding our camp. On
several occasions we fed doses of strychnine
to him in appetising food, but Warrigal only
laughed at such mild fare. At last the cook
plastered one end of a .stick of dynamite
with a dainty bit and, as Warrigal came
along to receive this moi’sel, lit the fuse.
The food-spoiler waited long enough to see
the dingo nibbling, and then scaled for his
life. Behind him he heard a tremendous bang.
But next night Warrigal came sniffing
around again. Batches of his skin were
missing, and he was limping. The cook gave
up. We shifted camp to another locality.
THE STOCKWHIP KING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
(An American expedition is about to visit this
country to film scenes of out-back life: The follow-
ing is offered as an incident suitable for Hollywood.)
Bill Benger was a stockman, a smarter
ne’er was seen;
His form was tall arid stalwart, his eye was
brown and keen.
His twenty feet of stockwhip he took from
out his belt
And lovingly the supple plaits and deadly
lash lie felt.
He tried it on a bluegmn’s bark, before him
tempting stretched,
And with a dozen Hicks or so two loving
hearts he sketched ;
Th('n lie put a wreath around them as a
kind of extra frill,
And signed it with a flourish: “Your faith-
ful sweetheart, Bill.”
Just then up slouched his rival, a city tough,
and cried
"Hands up!” Bill eyed him warily and not
a word replied.
The villain took no chance and aimed at
William from the hip,
But Bill the bullet turned aside with a
flash of his trusty whip.
And then its coils snaked out and caught
the scoundrel by the neck,
And tumbled him upon the ground, a sullen,
humbled wreck.
"You wretched desperado,” cried Bill, “just
take a tip :
Your gun’s of little use beside a true Aus-
tralian’s whip.”
Now Bill is settled on his farm, with the
missus and the boys;
All that he won in gallant youth his hearty
age enjoys.
Ilis kids he’s taught to ride and shoot, and
plait and use their whips;
Perhaps he is the old block now, but they
are good-sized chips.
For all the youngsters’ homework, their
maps and charts and sums,
Have been worked out with their stockwhips
on the bark of kindly gums.
They’re up to compound interest now, but
the whips must hang at ease;
ft isn’t that they’ve lost their skill, but
they’ve used up nil the trees.
N.S.W.
R. G. HENDERSON.


IF YOU MUST BE PAID
TO READ THE NEWS...
what of the advertisements?
"The Brisbane Courier” depends for circulation solely on its
wholesome, cleanly-presented news and its vigorous policy in
oublic questions. Subscribers buy it to read it. As a result its
circulation is the greatest and most effective in all Queensland.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland’s leading paper for 84 years.
Representative: ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 85007.
THINKING AHEAD
The right kind of thinking ahead, of planning for the future,
is that which is instantly translated into action, when the
thinker, the planner, has decided upon the objective and the
means by which it may be obtained.
Every man or woman who so plans must take money into
consideration, and every man or woman who thinks must
realise how valuable a means the Savings Bank account can be.
It costs nothing, cannot be overworked, and pays an interest
profit commensurate with your tenacity of purpose.
€6mmonwcaltb savmas Bank of flustralia
( E. C. RIDDLE, Governor.')
“Ornis”: At Bellingen (N.S.W.) a
scrub-feller found a lyrebird’s nest with
an egg in it. Mrs. Hall, one of a party
bringing out lunch to the workers, was
handling the egg when she noticed a move-
ment. Half an hour later, warmed in her
THE HARVEST.
VISITING CHAPLAIN (watching prisoner at work making sacks ): " Sewing, my man, eh?”
PRISONER : “No — reaping!”
hand, the chick was hatched out, and after
being wrapped up all day was placed in
the nest at night. Next morning, the wood-
cutters saw with astonishment the parent
hird.s, attracted by the young one’s call,
feeding it—and the lyrebird is one of the
shyest of created beings. The incident re-
calls the old cock-fighting days in England,
It was the custom for a breeder of fighting
cocks to distribute the eggs amon„ his
cottagers and farmers for hatching,
the case 'of some particularly valuable
strain it was quite common for the women-
folk in whose charge the eggs had been
placed to carry them, wrapped in cotton
wool, in their bosoms until hatched.
“Sylvester”: There’s usually some per-
fectly simple explanation of the noises in
allegedly haunted houses. Some years ago
there was a “haunted” house in Bundaber„
(Q.). The spook in this case resorted to
a quiet tapping on the ceiling during the
dead hours of the night. After sever a
tenants had been frightened out the owner
got a carpenter to investigate. He found
that the builders had left a board lying
across one of the ceiling joists, so nearly on
the balance that the slightest breeze blowing
under the eaves set it rocking. During the
day the slight tapping was not, noticed.
“G G 6” • That yarn about shooting pro-
tected swans (B. 17/8/32) Reminds me of a
minor tragedy of Western Queensland. I was
staying on a station to which the rather fiery -
tempered owner had just brought a young
newclium as tutor for his brumby children.
They' gave the poor wretch a miserable time,
which'came to a culmination when he shot a
swan one day while out on an excursion accom-
panied by tiie brats. Swans were protected,
and they were quick to point this out, add-
ing; that their father was apt to go berserk
if he heard of any being destroyed. To his
agonised queries, they suggested that lie
should bury it, swearing never to divulge
the secret. The soil was hard clay, with
hardly even a stick about, and he had to
do the job with his lingers. The picture
given later by the young devils of the per-
spiring innocent scrabbling in the dirt with
his finger-nails remained with me years after
lie had sent in his resignation.
“.Tubata”: Sydney saw its first cheetahs,
or hunting leopards, the other day, when
two arrived at Taronga from India. The
cheetah is something of a puzzle to natu-
ralists, for, though he is classed with the
f elide/’, he has so many dog-like character-
istics that experts are inclined to regard
him as a transition stage between the cat
and dog groups. Skull formation and denti-
tion are uncatlike,, and the claws are only
slightly retractile. Another doglike charac-
teristic is the animal’s tendency to form
intimate friendships with mankind, after
the fashion of domesticated breeds of dogs,
a trait for which cats are not remarkable.
The cheetah has been used for hunting ante-
lope and similar game since the dawn of
history. Hooded and chained like a hunt-
ing hawk he is taken out in a covered
cart. When near a herd of antelope he is
loosed and unhooded. Stalking to what
he considers a proper distance, he puts
in a flashing final sprint, downing his
quarry with a blow from his paw. If ne
misses he gives up and comes back to his
cart until the next opportunity. .Most of
the great Indian princes keep a "stable”
of cheetahs, and the beast is used for hunt-
ing throughout. Asia. Marco Polo asserted
that Ivublai Khan always took with him
on liis hunting expeditions a string of 1000
cheetahs.
HIS PROP AND STAY.
’ERB: “What’s yer ’urry , Alf?”
AIF: “Goin’ to work.”
'ERB: “What, is the missus crook?’
“G.S.”: The suggestion (B. 17/8/32)
that the predominance of male over female
lambs is intended by Nature as a check to
breeding, in preparation for a drought, misses
fire, as the check would not operate for two
or three years at least. But a predominance
of one sex or the other sometimes
follow’s- the introduction of new rams,
especially rams of a different breed. On
a place in my district where the original
flock has been divided into two, one flock
served by Border-Leicester rams, the other
by Corriedale, it was found at last lamb-
marking that, though the ewes are prac-
tically identical, the lambs from the Border
rams are fullv two-tliirds female. In the
other flock the sexes are about equal.
“Nimity Jane”: “C.Y.” (B. li/8/ 32)
asks whether there is any scientific basis
for the belief of some sheepmen that a
great preponderance of male births presages
the coming of drought. It is more likely
an indication that there has been a drought,
or at any rate that the sheep nave suffered
hardship. It has long been known that
the proportion of boys born in a war-ravaged
country is higher than normal, and it is
a general experience, though I can t quote
statistics, that pioneers of settlement,
especially in an inhospitable country such
as the rocky, bleak Monaro plains, have tar
more sons than daughters. Bo come right
home to my own poultry-yard, for many
years I have made a point of setting a
couple of clutches of eggs in June, when
the chooks are cold, w r et and miserable,
knowing that almost all the chicks will be
roosters and very handy for the table m
early summer. There is a family of ten
scratching round now —eight ot them
cockerels.
* '-s * *
“Ela”: When Governor Murray told the
Science Congress in Sydney that the Papuan
was catching up with the times, he said
a mouthful, to cull a flower of Ameri-
can speech. In the Port Moresby police
court recently Mary Sipe, married woman,
■was wheeled up for driving a motor vehicle
without a license. Mary explained that
it was all her husband’s fault. He had
insisted on teaching her. to drive, and she
was undergoing instruction when she was
nabbed. Husband Maka said, on the other
hand, that Mary never ceased nagging at
him to let her drive, and this he had done
for a quiet life. The beak, casting a look
of sympathy at Maka, fined Mary a quid,
which no doubt Maka had to pay.
* 5,1
“Catcher”: Here’s a record for Aboliars
to beat. At Rodney Downs in Queensland
latelv one Alistair Alexander undertook
to put up an individual record for lamb-
marking without assistance. The lambs
were kept up to him in a pen, to the rails
of which 10 Shannon marking cradles —
which have been described in The Betjxe-
tin’s Land column—were attached. Single-
handed, the operator filled and released the
cradles, completing the whole process in-
eluding the earmarks. The lambs were not
tarred. Alexander worked for 6hr. 50mm.
and efficiently marked 1006 lambs, his best
tally for an hour being 156.
* ,
"Homfrcy Beale’; Ruling round a tank
out Barmedman (N.S.W.) way not long
ago I was attracted by the loud cries aud
excited behavior of a couple of plovers,
Steering across, I found them engaged in
strenuous combat with an outsize in brown
snakes. The plovers were conducting the
argument with much intelligence, one teint-
ing while the other struck and changing
over every round. I offered my assistance
and we won the argument. Then the in-
grates turned on me, and it was all I could
do with whip and hands to beat them off.
Later I found their nest, with two young
ones, near the edge of the tank. Probably
t was their first cradleful. I’ve never
known a plover to attack a man befoie.
- - "
. “Bonzo”: It has been asserted that homing
pigeons are unable to home ’ when released
near or flown over an electric power-station
or wireless aerial. An English spintualist
has suggested an explanation. He relates how
one bright sunny day he received a psychic
message that the earth was completely
fm* the view of ‘the other side-
that day by a dense envelope of mist The.
newspapers next morning reported that a
very violent electro-magnetic disturbance
had raged m,the earth s upper atmosphere
most of the preceding day. He suggests
that pigeons are unable to sense the earth
when electrical emanations create what is,
direction-finding sense, a dense mist,
Probably all bunkum, but how do pigeons
find their way home ?
"Dai R.” : Knowing that the incubation
period for a curlew’s egg is similar to . that
of the domestic hen s, I some tune ago m-
eluded a curlews egg Id found with a
clutch of , hen fruit I was setting The
stranger was amongst the first three to
appear. The hen showed great excitement,
fussing round it and clucking vigorously,
Then suddenly she charged the two hen
chicks and pecked them to death. A little
later another chick broke through. The
hen inspected arid, instantly murdered it.
We removed the rest of the clutch to the
care of an available foster-mother The real
ma of the lien clucks now stalks proudly
about the yard with her solitary adopted.
and viciously charges her own chicks and
their foster-parent if they, come near. I’m
glad it wasn’t an emu’s egg.
CHARLIE MURRAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met him first —in ’ninety-two
Or -three, it. must have been—
Out somewhere at the back of Cue,
Or, possibly, Nannine.
And still, when diggers of the past
O’er screens of memory scurry,
1 always see him first —and last —
The same old Charlie Murray.
His beard is still as black as jet,
A mostly tauglefi mat;
He wears a scrap of greenish net,
With corks, around his hat.
Bright eyes, brimful of hope and cheer,
Gleam through that setting furry,
TTndimm’d alike by dust or beer—
And there you’ve Charlie Murray !
Type of the men who pioneered
'The West in days that were;
No star but gold by which they steered
And battled here and there.
With hearts still high but shammies lean
To each new rush they’d hurry.
Aye, distant fields were always green
For such as Charlie Murray.
They ti-amped and knapped from north to
south
In quest, of lode and lead ;
Though plain and desert, dust and drouth,
They .sweated, starved —and spread.
Too lightly flies the gold you touch
With little toil or flurry,
And when ’twas hardly won, ’twas much
The same with Charlie Murray.
By careless scores to find on find
They blazed a hundred routes;
But it was those that came behind
Who mostly reaped the fruits.
Onward and ever on they pressed
By flinty ways and burry.
And in their tracks too oft they rest,
Like poor old Charlie Murray.
Their virtues sorrowing friends may post
On no memorial plate.
Perhaps it was their only boast
They never wronged a mate.
But when they reached the Golden Shore
I doubt they’d need to worry.
At worst there’d be no damning score
Of deadly sins to bar the door
’Gainst such as Charlie Murray.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. .. .. ... .. .. .. 8,780,000
> .
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 k £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED tfHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. NOW IN ITS 91st YEAR
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Everv
Wednesday
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire lnsurances effected ° n an classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks 011 Wool, Merchandise,
— Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
WOODS
GREAT
PEPPERMINT
■CURE
For Coughs, Colds
and Influenza.
Never Fails.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
w
I ■ '■
ƒ
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITK.EN, SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH!
Ireland is dealing with its annuities on
the Ire system.
* *
“The relations between an employer and his em-
ployees are very much akin to the relationship of
a man to his wife.”— Melbourne. “Herald."
But who ever saw an employee seated on
a verandah while his employer pushed the
lawn-mower?
* *
“The ancient Britons dyed themselves blue with
woad, a pigment of which the composition is un-
known.”
But Registrars in Bankruptcy take care
that people who make compositions nowadays
are able to get blue without using woad.
“It says here that in Equatorial Africa
a man doesn’t know his wife till they’re
married,”
“In Equatorial Africa?”
“The individualism of Welsh market towns is
pronounced.”— Melbouriie . “Herald.”
The trouble is the names of the towns
aren’t!
LOVE’S HANDIWORK.
“The initial stages of the above,” says our
Romance Expert, “are confined to the play-
ing of hands. This, in time, leads to the
giving and taking of hands at the altar, and
that, in no time, leads to the giving and
taking of back-handers in marriage.”
Me.
* *
Senator Hardy is certainly a break-up.
* *
WAY FOR KING WILLOW!
The “Daily Blah's” Great Offer.
Soon the cream of England’s willow-
wielders and leather-tossers will set sail for
our sunny southern land, determined, in age-
“What, the rake I gave you lasted funny! I don’t
believe it!”
“Fair dinkum, missus. The cook wot finished it must a ad
diff’rent ideers to the one wot begun it.”
old bulldog fashion, to wrest “The Ashes ’
from their virile kinsmen who dwell ’neath
the Southern Cross. Whilst hoping that the
Argonauts’ quest will be in vain, let us,
steeped as we are in the immemorial spirit
of good old British fair play, acclaim to all
the world “May the Best Side Win.”
The “Blah,” ever mindful of its sacred
obligation to its vast host of readers, pro-
poses to conduct a unique series, of competi-
tions. There are but two essentials for en-
trants—a knowledge of our grand old Empire
game and possession of the coupon which
will appear on page 8 of every issue from
to-day until such time as the public shows
unmistakable signs of being sick of the
whole business. So set your brain working,
and start saving the coupons.
There will be Big Gash Prizes for the
best suggestions made to “Blah” sporting
writers on how best to express their feelings
in the event of any or all of the following
events happening during the currency of
the Tests:—
(1) Bradman going for a couple of ducks
(2) Pataudi criticising the White Aus-
tralia policy.
(3) Grimmett’s slows proving utterly
useless.
(4) Jardine deciding to turn pro.
(5) A day’s, play occurring without a
record being broken.
Now. Put on Your Thinking Caps, and
Start Saving the Coupons.
And remember nothing hackneyed or stale.
The “Blah” wants something that will appeal
to its readers, and you should know what
the intellectual standard of the average
“Blah” reader is.
J. P.
H- *
The economies predicted for the P.M.G.’s
Department suggest that Postman’s Knock
will soon come into favor in Canberra.
* *
The future of the State lottery seems to be
a gamble.
* v
Opponents of the sugar embargo claim that
the growers only have to plant the cane in
the ground to see the sugar grow in the bank.
“Mona B (S 3), barmaid, was sentenced to
three months for larceny.”
Now, as the old song says, “there is no
Mona at the bar.’'
* *
“BUNGE YE" BUNGLES.
When Elmer (“Bungeye”) Scraponi
arrived here from Sing Sing he was en-
trusted with several remunerative commis-
sions, the first of which was the removal
of Joe, a sly-grogger, who had been under-
cutting Bill.
“Get ’im in ’is car,” said Bill, “just as
’e’s startin’ up. That’s the best time.”
“Say, brother,” said “Bungeye,” “that
guy’s as good as cold meat. Leave it to me."
Which Bill did.
‘‘Bungeye” duly entered the car and
waited. Presently two men got in. “Bung-
eye” could see only their backs, but knew
tln> driver was bis man. As the engine
started up he let fly. Without a sound
his man slumped. The other bolted.
Joe still undercuts Bill in the sly-grog
racket. “Bungeye” had forgotten that
Aussie cars have a right-hand drive!
Billy Doo.
* *
“Mrs. D —— said she had mortgaged everything
she owed to fight the ease.” — “Worl’d.'’
This device of. raising money on debts
seems worthy of consideration by our .poli-
ticians.
* *
Doctors say their profession is a no-bill
one—and likely to remain so for the dura-
tion of the depresh.
* *
FAMOUS HIKES.
Dick Whittington’s return to London.
Blondin’s tight-rope walk over Niagara
Falls.
The retreat from Moscow.
The night Mr. Nextdoor was alone with
baby.
My return from last Melbourne Cup.
o. w. w.
*
Ottawa .seems to have caused a quota-war.
* *
“In England, beach costumes have been exposed
to a storm of controversy.” —“Sunday Sun."
After a casual glance we’re, satisfied that
some people will argue about nothing at all.
DETACH ABLE.
Believe me,, if all your endearing young
charms, • .
Which I gaze on so fondly to-day,
Were well rubbed with lather applied to the
palms
They would rapidly vanish away.
N.
“Isn’t it funny—they met because they each
happened to have a divorce case listed
on the same day, and now they’re going
to get married.”
“I see—they were suited to each other.”
TOREADOR’S SONG.
‘A mob set fire to the Almagro bull ring because
Ortega, one of Spain’s best-known bullfighters, refused
to fight, owing to the fact that the owner was
unable to pay his fee.
“Six maddened bulls careered around the arena
and were shot by soldiers.”— “Age."
Inez, my de-ali, my own Dulcinea,
You hear-a da terrible t'ing.
How down-a Almagro da push and da vagro'
Set fire to da splendid bull ring?
So now your Ortega sit in da bodega,
He write you of sorrows so fulls,
How soldiers got gallied, an’ when dev have
rallied, '
Dey shoota da beautiful hulls!
Sweetie, my Inez! Dere's none who so fine
is
As she who swap kisses wid me!
But your poor Ortega fail in da intrigue-a
To cop da big toreador's fee!
Bweetie, my Inez, dere’s none who so fine is
As she who swap kisses wid me!
1 no make da fight-a becos da damn blighter
He no pay Ortega da fee:
1 give you my word-a 1 getta da bird-a
Becos I expec’ my mon-ee!
All, in da arena a terrible scene-a!
Would Inez had been dere to see!
Da soldiers go silly, da toros go Hilly,
An’ everyone’s paid excep’ me!
Bo ] sip-a da wine as / pledge me my Inez —
My pipe-dream she end in da smoke!
I lose-a da job-a, T no gotta bob-a ,
An' 1 write for to tell da bad joke!
I sip-a da wine as / pledge me my Inez —
My pipe-dream she end in da smoke!
NORMAN CAMPBELL.
THE SUNDAY MORNING GARDENER
DOES HIS BIT.
“The Kindergarten Union of New South Wales has
arranged for a number of private gardens to be
thrown open for inspection by children.”
r —“Open Bodd.”
“Welcome, boys and girls, and I hope you
may find our tour of inspection alike enjo.y-
able and educative.
“In this bed we have my locally-famous
static or dud cinerarias. I put them in two
months ago, and they have remained at
their present height—approximately 2|in. —
ever since. The picturesque, colander effect
of the leaves is produced b.v a fly, a grub,
a snail or a slug. I have never been able
to find out which, as the insect, or whatever
it is, eats by night. All we can say with
certainty is that it has a healthy appetite.
An unusual feature of
these cinerarias is that,
they never b100m....
Passing to, the next bed
we find one of my leaf
pelargoniums, so called
because they produce
nothing but leaves. In
their original habitat they
produced masses of
flowers; here they pro-
duce masses of roots. A
striking exain p 1 e of
Nature’s immutable Law
of Compensation....
"The intellectual-looking
boy in glasses wants to
know the chief compon-
ents of my soil. The
answer is stones. I must
have thrown a couple of
million, ranging in size
from pebbles to boulders,
into my neighbor’s right-
of-way on the other side
of yonder hedge, yet still
they come ... . No, my
girl, those hardy growths
round the carnations are
not seedlings, but onion-
grass. Some day. if you
are good—in fact, any
day, whether you are good
or not —you may come
and dig up my onion-
grass to your heart’s con-
tent, and, what is more,
take your treasure-trove
home and, if so disposed,
sow it in daddy’s garden.
You will get some enjoy-
able laughs if you watch
his face when the stuff
starts to sprout. ... The sunny bod on my
left would doubtless be a blaze of color only
it is occupied by non-flowering wall-flowers.
They cost, me Is. a dozen two years ago, and
I have never lost one, or had a flower from
one, since. ‘Blaekdaisy,’ of ‘The Amateur
Gardener,’ thinks I may have evolved an
entirely new species.
“And now for the lily-pond. Four feet
by three in area, it was constructed entirely
by my wife, blit, she must have left a hole
in the cement. Anyhow, it is never full, and
the lawn in the vicinity, as that child in
the drenched slippers now realises, is a
permanent bog. The two sickly-lookjng
objects in the middle are water-hyacinths—
a pest on the Northern
Rivers. Near the gate
you will notice a small
girl being wheeled
away in a push-cart.
Nothing striking about
her appearance, you
will say. Just an ordi-
n a r y two-year-old.
Quite. Yet beneath
that, modest woollen
hat lurks a brain which
has, solved a problem
that has defeated some
of the most luminous
minds of the scientific
world—that of keeping
t h e water-hyacinth
in check. Iler method is to pull the plant
up. throw it on the lawn, and reel hurriedly
away. I would readily lend Jocelyn, the
Hyacinth Discourager, as she is known here,
to the Northern Rivers for a year or so, but
there are family objections.
“That concludes to-day’s tour, children, and
remember that any of you who chance to he
collectors of stones or onion-grass are at
liberty to make ‘Ruo Emoh’ your happy
hunting-ground whenever you like.”
10.2.4.


«as
fiasi
i mm
ms
saa&sp
os
MM
m
n
ms
o\
" '[■
u
O
to
n
fe*
\ftN
“csas
o
y-vO
4.*»
O
aS
M
m
II
H
8 :■;.
v-'
§
ssspp
3gSl
SsM
w
iV
gigs
s a
O
DOUBLE edged
MADE IN ENGLAND
Take an edge so keen that words can’t
describe it—so smooth that it glides like
velvet over the tenderest skin. That’s the
new Seven o’clock blade —for all double-
edged razors. Try one. Did you know
that a safety razor shave could be so clean
and quick? Then remember that a shilling
and sixpence buys five of these amazing
blades. Every dealer sells Seven o’clock
razor blades. Get yours to-night.
SHOULD INTEREST
Teaching Iris Auction Bridge, 3/9; Contract Bridge for Iris, 3/9; Stories from the
Operas, 5/6; Cheiro Guide to the Hand, 4/1; Candy Cookery Book, 9/-; Universal
Cookery Book, 1000 Recipes—We Recommend It, 1/3; Official Rules of Card viames
THAT
YOU
(Hoyle Up to Date), 2/S; Physical
Culture Simplified— A Complpte Course,
6/3; Nature’s Way, 1/9; Practical Birth
Control, by E. A. Hornibrook, 4/9; Bulletin
Reciter, 2/2; Bulletin Book of Humor-
ous Verses, 1/2; Canoes, Dinghies and
Sailing Punts, 2/9; How to Drive a
Car —Complete Guide and Handbook,
3/9; >Iaye’s Australian Builders’ Price
Book. 15/6; Freshwater Aquaria, by
Bateman, 10/9; Aust. Book of Ready-
made Speeches and '.roasts, ?>/-;
Mechanical Year Pocket Book, 1932, 3/-;
THE WORK, WEALTH AND
HAPPINESS OF MANKIND.
A Comprehensive Survey of Human Acti-
vities and a Scientific Review of Human
Relationships. Mankind in the Great
Change.
BY H. G. WELLS.
PRICE, 18/6 Posted.
High-speed Compression Engines, 4/6; _ , , , r . a r rHa __„ riktov
Married Love, by Marie Stopes, 3/3; Contraception, Birth Contiol, its rheory, Illstoij
and I* r act icq, by Marie Stopes, 22/4; Etiquette m E^ry-dayLit6,l/0, Hanley s 20th
Century Recipes, 28/6; Compression Ignition Engines foi Road . v eliicles, 4/ ,
Budgerigars and Cockatiels, by C. P. Arthur, 1/11; Ferrets and Ferreting, Breed ng,
Managing, Training and Working, by W. D. Drury, 2/S, a d •
139 Pages, 7(5 Illustrations, 10 Tables, 7/10; Engineering Woikshop_ Manual toi
Fitters, Turners and General Machinists, by E. Pull, 4/1, Text ; ‘ f
Mechanics, with Numerous Diagrams and Examples, by Cryer and J#lda 9| FU,
Motor Cycles and How to Manage Them, 25th Edition, 4/7; Speed and Hom to
THE MASTERY OF SEX
THROUGH PSYCHOLOGY AND RELIGION.
By L. D. WEATHERHEAD.
ONE of the very STRONGEST, SANEST and WISEST books I have ever
°ad on the suW A PLEASURE TO RECOMMEND. A BOOK OF
VERY GREAT VALUE. IF I WERE A MILLIONAIRE IWVOULD GIVE
A COPY TO EVERY MAN AND WOMAN IN AUSTRALIA.
— Rev. C. J. Benson.
5/3 POSTED.
for Use of Boiler Attendants, p r(^pgp^ 1 ’g for Gold (Australian), toy I.
l(lTiess er r,/:u l Sound Projection (Illustrated), by R. MieMingr, 39/8 r The Sheep and
WooTIndustry in Australia and New Zealand for Sheep-farmera WooMassers bj
H. B. Smith, 13/-, Australasian Sheep O o1 ’fi.fl^S^Uustraliin
COMPLETELY REVISED
EDITION, JUNE, 1932.
Over Three Million Copies Sold.
PEARS’ CYCLOPAEDIA
Twenty-two Complete Works of Refer-
ence in One Volume of nearly 1000 Pages.
THE FLAGS OF THE EMPIRE AND
OTHER COUNTRIES IN COLORS.
PRICE, 5/2 Posted.
Horse Talk for Men, by W. Muggridge,
25/6; Motor-boat Manual, 9/-; Motor-Cycle
Manual, 4/7; Sound Film Reproduction—
.lust Out, Special Reference to British
Practice, C/4; Beautiful Women —Prints
and Paintings from Paris Salon, with
Verse, 3/8; Norman Lindsay’s Pen Draw-
ings, Many of Which are Out of Print. 5/4;
Painting and Decorating, Working Methods
for Apprentice, Journeyman, Housepainter,
Decorator. 2nd Edition, 13/3: Commercial
Art and Cartooning, by Matthews, 12/0;
Bricklaying and Simple Building for
Amateurs. 3/11; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/11; Wireless Tubrary for the
Man in the Street, l/ll each—Electrified Matter, Selection ot Wireless Signals, Wire ess
Receiving Circuits, Magnetism and Electro Magnetism, Modern Valves, How to undei-
stand Wireless Diagrams, Reproduction of Wireless Signals, Detection ot \\ ireies.
Signals. Write for any booh you may require.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Booksellers, Librarians, Tobacconists. Stationers, Newsagents, Kodak Suppliers,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
BAD BACKACHE!
When will you learn the Truth?
Those agonising twinges, awful pains in the
back, swollen joints, twitching, aching muscles,
depression, irritability—you must realise that
these are symptoms of dangerous
KIDNEY TROUBLE
—End That Danger
Whilst You Can
There are thousands of once healthy, happy men and
women rapidly approaching the brink of breakdown,
nervous exhaustion, a dangerous state of heart-weakness,
just because they neglect the early signs of kidney trouble —
the cause of backache, rheumatism, swollen joints, etc.
Rheumatism, crippling the body, making every effort to
move, work or even think a torture, is telling you of some-
thing wrong within the blood. You might just as well
polish the outside of a motor car with a broken-down engine
in the hope of making it carry on, as to apply preparations to
the outside or the body when the cause of all your pain, your
rheumatism, backache and weakness is in your blood.
Why this remedy must end your trouble
Your body is one vast and marvellous machine, taking from the food you eat and
the air you breathe elements to build health and strength from which there must be
certain waste. When this waste contains poisons (such as uric acid in excess),
harmful bacteria, etc., get into the blood and are not passed out by the kidneys—it is
then your health breaks down and all your nerve-destroying body pain begins.
That is why the only possible remedy for rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, back-
ache or swollen joints must act directly on the kidneys, and we state clearly and
definitely that the world-famous De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are guaranteed
to do this. It is you alone who can take the first real action by getting a supply of
this famous 40-year-old, tried and trusted remedy from your chemist.
The very young, the weakest, women at all times, the oldest, can take De Witt’s
Pills with confidence. They contain no dangerous heart-exciting drugs, but are a
scientific preparation that will do you good from the very first dose. In twenty-four
hours you see how good they are.
iiiii
grate
mmm
Mm
* »
PP
H i
11:
iv
■
■ .
■ m
m
m
Read just one of many thankful letters
Mr. G Jensen. Rye Post Office, Victoria, writes:—“For many years I have
suffered excruciating agony through Backache, Lumbago and Sciatica.
The pain became so bad that for three months 1 had to have morphia
injections 1 also underwent treatment in hospital and tried several
remedies, which only gave very little relief. I read of your pills and tried
them., finding definite improvement after only five or six doses. I persevered,
and am now in good health.
To those who suffer from kidney trouble in any form we honestly say there is no
remedy to equal De Witt’s Pills. Thousands of one-time
martyrs the world over, in gratitude for freedom from
pain and suffering tell us so. That is why, with perfect
confidence, we ask you to test this remedy, yet a
3/6 supply to-day. The larger, more economical
size, costs but 6/6. These pills are never sold
loose. Go to your chemist to-day before it
is too late. Let De Witt’s Pills make you
pain-free, healthy and happy.
g
Kidney
and
Bladder
Pills
an
m.
'JS3L


SUNSHINE FARM IMPLEMENTS
Work Well and Last Long
“Sunshoe” Seed Planter
i
Sows Maize, Peas, Cotton, French
Bean, Onion, Turnip, Mangel,
Broom, Sudan Grass, Peanut,
Pumpkin and many other seeds.
PRICES:
For sowing seed only . . £5/19/-
For sowing both seed and
fertiliser £7/2/6
“Satellite” One-horse Hoes
f
No. 80 type, leverless, as here
illustrated £2/7/6
No. 88. Similar, but heavier. Ideal
for plantation work .. £3/11/-
No. 7. With expansion lever and
depth-regulating lever, £3/11/-
These handy little all-steel imple-
ments are a boon to market-garden-
ers, etc. The frames expand and
contract. Hillers and furrowers
supplied.
SUNSHINE
Diamond Harrows
ƒg
20 teeth per section. Lines of cut
If-in. apart. Teeth ‘fin. square,
forged to a shoulder.
They cannot twist or work through.
PRICES:
One section, with pull
rod £l/7/-
Two sections, with bar, as
illustrated £2/17/-
Also available in 3,4, 5,6, 8 and
10-section sets, with bars for team
or tractor.
“Sunleaf”
Orchard Plough
m
m
/
m
Has two 23in. discs, with great
clearance between. Can be adjusted
to plough within 9in. of trees when
ploughing “away.” Levers down
when in working position. Discs
adjustable for breast and undercut.
A splendid implement for turning
in heavy green crops and weeds.
PRICE £lB/10/-
“Simbird” Ploughs
The “Sunbird” Ploughs are splendid
for orchard and small-farm use, and
are noted for the manner in which
they turn in and bury green
manurial crops and weed growth.
f
ƒ
1-furrow size cuts furrows 9in. wide to 6in. deep. 2- and
3-furrow sizes cut furrows Bin. wide to 6in. deep.
PRICES:
Single-furrow, with fixed handles, £4/5/6
Single-furrow, movable handles, £4/12/6
2-furrow, £ 12/7/-; 3-furrow, £lB/1/-
Knif e-coulter, 7/6. Rolling-coulter, 15./-
Depth-regulating Wheel, 10/-
f
“Tasman” Plough
Mouldboard of soft centre steel
turns a good furrow and cleans
well. Guts furrows 6fin. wide.
Overall length of plough, Bft. Has
cast share of the socket type. A
wrought-steel share can be supplied
when ordered. bridle adjust-
ment enables land to be ploughed
close up to tree-trunks.
PRICE, £3/11/-
Knife-coulter, 7/6. Wheel, 10/-
“Sunpearl” Disc Harrow
Gangs are
exten s i b 1 e
for gap up
to 2 feet.
.v
mm h
Discs are
reve r s i b 1 e
for in-throw
or out-throw
8 16in. discs, 4ft. cut, £ll/3/-
8 20in. discs, 4ft. cut, £l2/2/-
10 16in. discs, sft. cut, £l2/2/-
10 20in. discs, sft. cut, £l3/11/-
12" 20in. discs, 6ft. cut, £l4/15/-
A forecarriage can be fitted in lieu
of pole and swings at £2/3/- extra.
Since the remission of Sales Tax on Farm Implements all the above prices are reduced by six per cent. —net cash on rail Sunshine. Terms are available.
Write for 96-page Illustrated Descriptive Catalogue and Price List of all Sunshine Manufactures, FREE.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD.
(SUNSHINE SECTION)
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
Branches and Agencies: BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
The window is beautiful and the screen is convenient, because it’s
Rolscreened. A touch of the finger and it is up and out of the way, stored
for a day or a season.
cz/l Qfindotr Screen
llint bolls
plike
a
Hi
B.R.G. Rolscreens give 10 to 20
per cent, more light than do the
old-fashioned, wooden-framed wire
screens. . . .without destroying that
harmony of line and proportion
which architects are so careful to
build into the modern home.
B
S
a s
SSL
(R&£sc/ieens)
B.R.G. Rolscreens allow any window
its fullest effect, both from the inside
and outside with their inconspicuous
guides at the sides; a narrow bottom
rail; an ingenious spring roller,
hidden in a compact housing, insur-
ing the maximum of light. Serving
their real purpose, to keep a house
thoroughly insect-proof, at the same
time adding a beauty and con-
venience never before obtainable.
A They roll up automatically at a touch of the fingers., as
easily as a window shade—there when you want them,
out of the way when you don't.
£ They need not he taken down for access to awnings,
flower boxes or for window washing. Require no storing,
no messy dusting, painting and repairing. Never in the
way for cleaning tasks.
Q They do not collect dirt—to be beaten against panes
by rain or to soil delicate breeze-blown curtains.
They are lovely in appearance—obviate the unsight-
liness and light obstruction inevitable with wide wooden-
framed wire screens. Your curtains are not hidden and
can be admired from without as well as within your home.
0 They do not rust or break into holes; they do not sag
or bag, even from aeeidental blows.
% They are thoroughly insect tight with their mesh
fastened in securely at top and bottom and snugly locked
into close-fitting guides at the sides.
£ Rolscreens give you all these amazing advantages with
any size, or type of window —in new home or old.
f The cost of B.R.G. Rolscreens compares favorably with
that of good-quality wood screens which require special
hardware. There is no cost of storing, painting or
repairing.
B.R.G. ROLSCREENS
(Patented throughout the World),
Manufactured by the Australian Reinforced Concrete Eng. Co. Pty., Ltd., 430 CHANCERY LANE, MELBOURNE, C.l. ; 14 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
For complete details and prices, call on or write to —
MELBOURNE: Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd. ADELAIDE: Elder Smith & Co., Limited. PERTH: The Structural Eng. Co. of W.A.,
Limited. SYDNEY: Gollin & Co/Pty., Ltd. BRISBANE: Dyne and Co., Ltd. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington—Derbyshire’s & Co.;
Dunedin —Donald Stuart & Co. . 1
So Simple and Easy to Operate!
Rolscreens add to the smart, slender
lines of casement windows without
spoiling the effect of attractive
curtains.
SEE B.R.G. ROLSCREEN DISPLAYS
IN THE ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING,
MELBOURNE SHOW.
i \ ...... t u,. V * ,/


w
DIAMONDS FOR SERVICE
WHEN battery or dry-cell users require
service that is out of the ordinary—
long, and hard, and gruelling—they choose
DIAMONDS. ■
It is Diamonds* length of life and amazingly rapid
recuperation that has won them a regular place, in the
work of the Victorian Railways Signalling Division.
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES-TORCH REFILLS
JTOR the same reasons many
Broadcasting Stations, the
P.M.G.’s Department, leading
radio get manufacturers, and the
Navy, choose Diamonds.
Clt* 1
D.S.I.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
HEAVIER BALES.
“Murrawong”: I quite agree with those
contributors who advocate economy in the
way of heavier bales, and every grazier I
have met this season seems eager to carry
out the suggestion; but there is one aspect
which some fail to realise: It may not be
possible to get more into their bales than
in the past. A bale of greasy wool must
weigh at least 2001 b.; scoured wool need
nnly weigh 1001 b. to be a regulation bale.
The reason js not, as a lot of people imagine,
that scoured wool should not be tightly
pressed—as a matter of fact, the bales are
dumped in the same way as greasy wool
before being shipped—but because of the
difficulty in getting the weight of scoured
wool into a pack. The weight is not in the
wool itself—it is in the foreign matters
adhering to the staple, chiefly yolk and dust.
The type of wool is another consideration.
Short wools, which arc also usually of lower
yielding capacity, will tramp more easily
into a bale than light, bulky fleeces of long,
shafty staple. I have seen a bale of locks
lying at Bourkc for weeks and everyone
refusing to handle it —it weighed over 9ewt.
There has also been considerable discus-
sion about the pressing of dusty wools.
Some owners and classers insist on light
hales, declaring that heavy pressing forces
the dust through the wool. I have experi-
mented with both heavy and light bales in
the same clip, and have seen them both
open up equally permeated with red. dust.
It has also been contended that heavy press-
ing takes the life and springiness out of
light, free wools; but I know one Monaro
clip which has topped the district averages
for years, and they invariably ram as much
as possible into the press. I handled one
large western N.S.W. clip this year, where,
in spite of a good season, there was a fair
amount of red dust in the wool, and the
average weight per bale ran out at a shade
over 3651 b. It would be almost impossible
to get anywhere near that average in a dis-
trict where the wool was clean and fairly
free from burr, and big, bulky, high-yielding
fleeces were being shorn.
Graziers who want heavier bales should
pay the presser by the cwt. —not at so much
per bale. The secret of turning out a good
bale lies in the first tramping. Don’t
fill the boxes too full, and tramp well down
the sides, especially into the corners of the
pack; the more weight you want to get into
a bale, the oftener you will have to tramp
between armfuls of wool.
CLASSING CROSSBREDS.
“Slieepo”: The number of farmers going
in for lamb-raising has augmented the pro-
portion of small crossbred clips coming on
the market. In many cases their get-up
is deplorable. There is no reason to neglect
the get-up of even the smallest crossbred
clip. Three classes will be sufficient in
most cases. The comeback or fine cross-
bred fleeces will go to make the “AAA,”
the medium crossbreds the “AA” and the
extra-coarse fleeces the “A.” Rams’ fleeces
must be kept by themselves, and in some
cases it may be necessary to make a cast
lot of fleeces that are coifed or matted, or
of any carrying au excess of condition.
The tenderness or soundness of the staple
should be a consideration, but country suit-
able for lamb-raising almost invariably pro-
duces wool that is sound. With the long
length of staple peculiar to crossbred sheep,
it will be found that the main considerations
in classing will be quality and condition.
The job of classing a crossbred clip is much
easier than classing a merino one; but care-
lessly-prepared crossbred clips do not engage
the attention of big buying interests. Dealers
and re-packers are the sole gainers ultimately
when these clips are offered.
THE TRUTH ABOUT BEEF.
“Dalgonally”: “M.H.E.” (B. 31/8/’32)
stresses the obvious when he says the Argen-
tine is our most serious competitor in the
British beef market. It is so far ahead of
us in situation, methods of marketing and
other respects that Australia may scarcely
be regarded by it as a rival. The Argentine
possesses hordes of cheap and reliable labor.
It lias a rail system which brings the cattle,
specially topped up on artificial pastures, to
abattoirs alongside the wharves where
the transporting steamers lie. The cattle
are of the primest quality; probably the
most even breed of killing cattle evolved in
the world; short, stocky and ready to come
to the pithing lane in prime condition when
an Australian breeder would be thinking
of getting together his mob of four- or five-
year-olds to start on their long droving jour-
ney on the hoof to the nearest meatworks.
The Argentine meat man—nearly always
British, of course —spends hundreds of
thousands annually on the purchase of new
bulls from Britain, and these are invariably
the sorts likely to breed the killers the
British markets demand. The Australian,
if he buys new blood nowadays, usually
sticks to the fancy lie has learned from
youth. If his importations aren’t the big,
rangy Hereford, they are usually the bulky
British beef Shorthorn. There has been a
little notice taken lately of the compact and
hornless Aberdeen Angus, from which the
Argentinian has been building up his type for
20 years past.
Much lias been made recently of the Aus-
tralian’s difficulties in evolving a satisfactory
method of carrying his beef overseas in a
chilled condition, as compared with frozen.
It is claimed that if such a method can be
evolved, this country would give the Argentine
a go in quality and price. There are several
arguments against that. One is that wages
paid in the industry place a heavy handicap
on the production of the Australian article.
A second is that the long transport run
between Australia and Britain is much more
costly than that between the Argentine and
England. But a third is the most important.
The article required is not available.
Until we can produce an even standard _of
beef on Argentine lines, a standard which
has long been accepted as final by the
British buyer, our chance of offering serious
competition will be remote.
STRAIGHT TALK TO DAIRYMEN.
Victoria exported 37,770 tons of butter in
1931-32 —the greatest quantity in any one
year since butter export began in 1889. But
the State Director of Agriculture warns dairy-
farmers in the “Journal” that the history
of the trade shows injurious fluctuations,
and that steadiness of supplies can only bo
achieved by better methods on their part._ A
graph covering the 42 years reveals “eight
production peaks and seven gulfs at almost
regular periods.” Mr. Crowe. adds that ‘ one
cannot escape the conclusion that these
periodic drops in production could have been
greatly minimised had provision been made
for the conservation of fodder.”
A correspondent (B. 7/9/’32) pronounces
a severe verdict on the happy-go-lucky
methods followed in the South Burnett (Q.)
district. Director Crowe is nearly as rough
on dairy-farmers in his State. “The majority
of them,” he declares, “still appear to have
little or no thought for the future. There
is no indication that they have made any
effort to conserve surplus growth or
grow fodder to supplement the pasture. In
some districts, in January and February,
one may travel for miles and see dry grass,
almost the whole of which not only will go
to waste but is a serious danger on account
of fire.”
Mr. Crowe points out that after 1910
there was a great slump in the output; for
seven years production receded to the level
of the '’nineties. “What a calamity it would
be.” lie says, “if we were to have such. a.
fall again!” His advice to farmers is:
Subdivide portion of your properties and
harvest some of the surplus growth in the
form of hay or ensilage. And grow fodder
crops.
FOUR MILKINGS A DAY.
“Mulyan”: In a paper on the control of
mastitis in cows, read before the Science
Congress in Sydney, it was stated that pro-
bably the biggest factor in the permane,nt
ostaoiishment of the organism is tliaUmilk-
ing occurs only twice a day. Under
natural conditions the calf keeps the cow
stripped. This directs attention to a test
conducted not long ago in. America with
high-producing cows .of various breeds. lor
a time they were milked twice a day, then
three times, and then four times. The ex-
periments showed that with three milkings
the cows produced from 40 to 52 per cent,
more butterfat and from 45 to 65 per cent,
more milk than cows milled only twice
a day. Cows milked four times daily pro-
duced from 110 to 127 per cent, more fat
and 149 to 160 per cent, more milk than
cows milked twice daily.
I don’t know if any similar test has been
made in Australia, but it should be worth
attention. To many, the unpleasant side of
dairying is - that 'tlie.v arc 'tied so much to
the milking stool; with four milkings a day
instead of’ two they would pretty well have
to live, in the yard. Three milkings are
common in some of the old, countries. With
high-producing cows' this is no. doubt, neces-
sary to keep them in proper trim and main-
tain a heavy yield for a long period.
FILLING PIT SILOS.
“Ginger Mick”: Two of us.cut and carted
in approximately nine acres in a little over
nine days, using a tumbler sweep as de-
scribed in B. 17/8/’32. We cut three rounds
of the paddock and then got right into the
swathes with the sweep, taking as much as
possible each time. The stuff was dumped
at the edge till there was a large heap, and
then forked into the pit. When it was built
up to within about a foot of the edge we
drove the horses over, dumping the sweep
on top each time. This consolidated the
material and kept it from getting too high.
When the paddock was finished the earth
was shovelled straight on.
There was no control of temperature, as
some silage-makers advocate. The whole
was taken in as fast as possible after it
was cut. We found that material, invariably
grass, made better silage when taken in dur-
ing wet weather.
As regards feeding, it is cut out with a
sharp spade, forked on to a dray and carted
out while it is hot. The stuff retains its heat
for months and the stock wolf it. Lambs a
few weeks old, calves, pigs, sheep, cattle
and horses are all doing well on it. The
horses have great coats; soft and silky and
always in good condition. Personally, we
have had no trouble with scours in the
cows. Last year we fed 27 head of cows
and calves for five and a half months exclu-
sively through one of the worst winters
ever experienced in this district (Feilding,
M.L.), and they came in as producers from
the time of calving.
The pit is on a gravel ridge and is 19ft.
x 33ft. x sft. deep. It has a drainpipe
through the side to allow for soakage and
drainage, is boarded up in front, and there
is very little waste.
CULTIVATION OF SALTBUSH.
“D.11.R.”: By all means let us cultivate
saltbush (B. G/9/’32). In a Californian
paper I read recently a farmer’s eulogy of
it; he pointed out that the combined pro-
perties of the plant are a complete antidote
to some of the most troublesome diseases
to which sheep are prone, and an ameliora-
tive of others, as w r ell as a general tonic.
Yet scarcely any attention has been given to
its possibilities in the country of its origin.
As a native of Walgett (N.S.W.) I know
that the shrub grows easily and quickly
from either seed or slip, spreads at a tre-
mendous rate and is most tenaciously
drought-resisting. In my boyhood days nor’-
west N. S. Wales was a sea of saltbush
nearly all the year round; but the bush was
eaten out —the curse of overstocking again.
It could easily be given a start again, and,
with fair play, would soon regain its former
hold. A few widely-separated paddocks sown
and allowed to seed would, with the assist-
ance of wind and birds, do the trick, and the
country would reap richly in future droughts.
TO REVIVE HORSE-BREEDING.
“The Breaker”: Horse-breeders in Central
Queensland • aim at getting back to the
“walcr” standard. Good; but it, won’t be
achieved in a year—too many nondescript
types of mares have been bred from. I
attribute the deterioration, which is so pro-
nounced to the introduction of the Suffolk
Punch strain. Suffolk entires are now rare,
but mares mated with thoroughbred entires
still throw foals showing Suffolk character-
istics. Some owners think that if they buy
a thoroughbred sire the get must be good.
No thought is given to the mares.
Increase of brumbies in certain districts
is blamed for the. prevalence of poor sorts
amongst station horses. There is something
in this, but the fact remains that on stations
where brumbies are never seen the horses
are of poor quality. Half-draughts and
half-bred Suffolks came into prominence
through the demand for these sorts from the
sugar-growing areas of the North. Nowadays
this trade lias slumped to next to nothing;
nevertheless, the mares are being bred from.
They are just as big a curse as brumbies.
One time you could get on a grass-fed horse
and ride it in comfort for 60 or 70 miles;
neither horse nor rider would feel the strain.
If you tried it now there Would be a knoeked-
up horse and rider before half the distance
had been covered. If we are to benefit from
the Indian demand, clean-bred mares will
have to be bred from and the mongrels shot.
As Bulletin writers have pointed out, our
old “walers” proved during the Sinai and
Palestine campaigns that they were miles
ahead of the American and Argentine re-
mounts, which contained a dash of Suffolk.
ROPE LADDERS.
“Mulgo”: A rope ladder is handy when
lopping trees and for getting about the slopes
and sides of lofty haystacks. That generally
used is made with lin. ropes for the sides,
knotted about every foot, and Gin. by lin.
steps or rungs, each about a foot long, with, an
inch hole bored through near each end. The
bottom ends of the ropes are threaded
through the first rung, and a simple knot is
tied underneath it. Then a similar knot
is made on each side a foot above it for
the next rung to rest on, and so on, until
the top is reached. The side ropes should
fit tightly in the holes in the rungs, and the
knots be exactly opposite each other.
A lighter, simpler ladder is made with one
rope—stouter, of course. This is knotted
the same way as the other, but the rungs
are only about Sin. long, and are bored
in the centre. See that it. isn’t loose in the
step. A third kind is made with round
rungs, slightly pointed at the ends, and with
a shallow groove around them. These
are thrust through the strands on each side
and the ropes fit in the grooves. They are
tacked there for greater safety, and finally
bound with strong cord. Rungs 2in. by lin.
may be used instead of round ones, and on
these a good shoulder can be cut. This
ladder, however, is not as strong as those
with knotted ropes.
DRAINING UNDERGROUND.
“Dai R.”: If you arc going to drain a
piece of land by the underground _ method,
don’t make the mistake of assuming that
strata run straight. They far more often
run like a snake’s track. The only way to
tackle the job with any chance of success
is to search for bottom every few yards by
sinking or auger—quite easy in moderately
shallow country. ' When you’ve located it
(at many different depths, you’ll mostly
find), run cross drains to catch the seepage,
all leading into one main channel run with
the natural fall to carry it away. Make sure
you get the real bottom. In farming, as in
mining, there are false bottoms. And don’t
start the job if you don’t thoroughly under-
stand it. Get someone that, does, or Write
the M.O.L. page for instructions. It is
a tricky business, with more failures to its
account than any other phase of farming.
“DON’TS” FOR TOBACCO-GROWERS.
“Wodgil”: People who have taken up
tobacco-growing are astonished at the num-
ber of departmental regulations they have
to comply with. A question frequently
asked is whether a grower may make plug
tobacco, cigars or cigarettes of his own leaf
for home smoking or for presentation to
friends. The answer is that. he may not:
“No person, other than a licensed manu-
facturer, is permitted to prepare tobacco for
smoking. A grower or any other person
who prepares tobacco even for his own smok-
ing renders himself liable to a fine of £100.”
He may not even grow the leaf without being
registered by the Collector of Customs at his
State capital. He must be registered, and
his land must be registered (“leaf may be
grown only on the area in respect of which
the grower is registered”), though, probably
through inadvertence, registration costs
nothing. “Penalty for growing tobacco not
covered by registration when crop is planted,
£20.”
And don’t run away with the idea that you
may store your leaf wherever you please.
It can’t be done, other than on your own
premises, without the Collector’s permission.
Moreover, you are not permitted to trade
in leaf, unless you are a registered dealer
or a licensed manufacturer; the leaf you
sell must be of your “own production only,”
and must be sold only to licensed dealers
and manufacturers; and you are required to
satisfy the department on these points. In
other words, you “must keep an account of
all leaf produced and disposed of,” and
“must furnish a return setting out” your
“operations not later than the 15th day of
January following the harvest period.” If you
get no leaf, “total failure of the crop must
be notified in the return.” Nor if you quit
the business in disgust do your, obligations
end. “A grower who ceases to grow must
at once notify the Collector or continue to
furnish annual returns."
For breaches of all these department-
made laws heavy penalties are provided. The
aim, it is explained, is to secure “effective
control,” and if the industry becomes a big
thing in spite of the barnacles there, will
naturally be a gratifying increase in the
number of barnacles.
PIT TRAP FOR RABBITS.
“Agri” : A pit trap for rabbits should be
made along a wire-netting fence, preferably
one newly netted. There are no fixed dimen-
sions. A very successful pit I have seen
is about 20ft. long, 6ft. wide, and 4ft. deep.
The pit lies lengthwise alongside and partly
underneath the fence. The top is boarded
over except for a space, left near each end for
the trap-door-—a board 2ft. 6in. or 3ft. long
and Gin. wide with a weight attached to the
(Continued on next page.)


r
i
11
fits
: i
Si
This is stronger!
From toe to heel the broadly
welted, rugged sole of this smart
Abbey Shoe runs with undimin-
ished thickness. There’s no thin-
ning under instep. Extra wear is
guaranteed.
Its upper of the finest calf is cut
in a special way to accommodate
the instep arch. You will remark
its easy fit... . enhanced by the
low-cut sides.
POSTAL ORDERS: Narrow,
medium and wide fittings Sire
available in all full and half sizes.
Specify width and order, also, a
supply of Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
DARK TAN CALF, 48/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years.
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 298
!m n
PENS
MADE IN ENGLAND
'Swan' Pens Black and Coloured, from 20/•
•Swan’ Minors from - - • • 15/-
♦Blackbird’ Pens from • - - 10/-
‘swan‘ Ink from - - 6d. per bottle.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House,
London, W.l. Factories: London & Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot .•
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
fgf
|(A.I.)
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to SUCCOed .THINK OF
y
SCHUTE,
BELL & CLtd
if you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sidney.
BRITAIN—MaKe Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman” —8 ; ] hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
Z TD 3
Jh
O
J)
mm
"NV S.II N3HM
which trans-
lated and edited
for publication
means . . . why
didn’t I get an
Exide.
Obtainable f>om gxide Service
Stations or your garage.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane—EXlDE BATTERY SERVICE (Q) PTY.
LTD.,; Sydney—EXlDE BATTERY SERVICE (Gibson Battle & Co. Ltd.);
Melbourne—A. P. SUTHERLAND; Adelaide UNBEHAUN & JOHN-
STONE LTD.; Perth-M. J. BATEMAN LTD.; Hobart MEDHURST &
SONS PTY. LTD.
underside at one end. This board is fixed into
the space left for it, and pivoted about one-
third of the way up from the weighted end.
The weighted end is toward the. end of the
pit. The trap-door is adjusted so that the
weight of a rabbit on the other end is sufficient
to swing the weighted end up. So much for
the pit itself. Now, in order to induce the
rabbits to walk upon those see-saw trap-
doors, it is necessary to erect two wings, of
temporary wire-netting fence, one running
out. at an angle of 45deg. or so, from each
end of the pit. Where these temporary
wings converge upon the main fence, a
narrow gap is left, and in that gap is the
trap-door. Rabbits, decoyed into a bottle-
neck by the two fences, walk through the
narrow gap. When they reach the farther
end, the weighted end swings UP, and the
bunnies slither down below. The weight
then pulls the. trap-door back into position.
In a pit of this kind 500 rabbits have been
caught in a night.
LATE HATCHING*
“Jack Point": If you can’t get enough
chicks for your requirements hatched by the
end of September it is better to purchase
day-olds than to prolong the hatching into
October. Late-hatched ones don’t get. a fair
chance to make enough growth before the
hot weather arrives. They ‘catch all the
diseases that are going, and if reared will
not begin to lay until a much later age than
the early-hatched birds. It costs a good
many shillings to bring a pullet to the age
when she -returns a profit, and it is as bad
an investment to hatch late chicks as to
buy poor quality ones. After all the 9d. or
so you pay per day-old chick is only a small
proportion of the amount necessary to rear
to the laying stage.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Could dairy-farming be profitably
carried on as a side-line to wheat-farming
in the Manilla (N.S.W.) district? (2)
Could cream be sent to Tamworth butter
factory per rail from an unattended siding?
(3) Would twice or three times a week do?
(4) Must the dairy be registered, and cost?
(5) What are the rules regarding milking-
yards and dairy? (6) What monetary re-
turn per cow could be expected with good.
Jersey cows? (7) For how long fpould fifty
tons of ensilage last twelve cows? (8) Most
suitable ensilage for cream production? —
1627.
(1) Yes, provided ample provision is
made for conservation of fodder to assure
regular feeding throughout the year. (2)
Ask the Railway Commissioners. (3) Three
times a week in summer and twice a week
in winter would suffice. (4) All dairies
must be registered at the nearest police
station. No fee. (5) Prescribed in Dairy
Manual, obtainable from Government Prin-
ter, Is. Id. posted. (6) The N. S. Wales
dairy herds average a return of about 2001 b.
of butter per cow each year. On present
prices this would be equivalent to slightly
under £lO a year. The average lactation is
about nine months. (7) Supplemented with
some pasture, a cow would consume about
five tons of ensilage per year. (8) Maize
and lucerne.
(1) / hare £2-000. Could T make a living
by renting a small sheep property and doing
all the work myself, except shearing? (2)
How} many merino ewes would 1 require?
(3) Should I buy young or old ewes? (4)
Most likely district? (5) Would Vic, or
Queensland be better owing to lighter taxes?
(0) Would it be hard to find a suitable
property? —lB36.
(1) An experienced man should be able
to make a living at present prices on a
property which could be purchased for the
amount stated. (2) About 1000. (3) oc.
general principles, buy young ewes, but be
guided by prices and conditions regarding
those offering whether young or old. (1)
Perhaps south-west Q’land. Many other dis-
tricts are also suitable. (5) Rents for lease-
hold lands are lighter in Q’land. (6) Suitable
properties and sheep are now listed with
the leading agents in Q’land. Crown lease-
hold properties are also available for ballot
with the Department of Public Lands, in
Brisbane.
(1) For the years ending June 30, 1030
and ]O3l, I showed losses on my wheat
farm. This year I shall show a profit. For
income-tax purposes can I deduct my pre-
vious losses from this? (2) What is the
minimum earned income taxable in West-
ralia? (3) Amount of Federal and State
land taxes on a block of about £750 unim-
proved value? (4) Can depreciation be de-
ducted, on the cost of a well in returning
for income tax, and at what rate? —lsB7.
(lj Yes; under both Federal and W.A.
State Acts the losses are deductible. The
amount deductible is the loss actually in-
curred ,in the business for the two years
mentioned. (2) Federal income tax: income
up to £2SQ is exempt. W.A. State income
tax: married £2OO, single £100: hospital
tax: £52. (3) Federal, nil. W.A. State,
agricultural land, nil. If used for other
than agricultural or pastoral purposes, im-
proved Id. in £, unimproved 2d. in £.
Vermin rate, pastoral leases -kl. in the £,
agricultural land id. in the £. "(4) Federal,
yes, at 3 p.e.; W.A. State, no.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Tumbe Munda’’: Having a cow which
bloated day after day, I could generally give
relief by placing a handful of carb. soda
on flic back of the tongue. But I sought
something more lasting and was successful
with castor oil- During one attack I admin-
istered the soda and followed it ten minutes
later with' a half-pint of castor oil. There
were no more attacks for a fortnight.
“Kripple”: Before setting the oil engine
to work after a period of idleness make sure
the pipes leading to the water-cooling tank
are free from obstruction. On two occasions
I have travelled long distances at heavy
expense to owners to cure overheating
engines, merely to find pipes clogged with
hornets’ nests and other rubbish which pre-
vented free circulation of the water. Where
hose pipe is used for connections see that
the inner layer has not peeled to hinge down.
in pipe, thus forming a flap valve shutting
off circulation.
“Karaway”: A sparrow trap that has
proved effective is made with light pine
battens for the frame, 6ft. long. 2ft. wide,
and 2ft. Gin. deep, covered with small-
meshed netting, with the exception of 2ft.
in the centre of the top. Across this open
space two woodens partitions are put in, in
the shape of a V —2ft. apart at the top,
and Gin. apart at the bottom. They reach
only to Jhe top of the bottom batten, being
Sin. or 4in. off the ground. Across the
narrow part a piece of netting is tacked,
and a couple of holes made in it large enough
for a sparrow to hop through. Grain is
put on the ground at each end. When the
sparrows enter, they run from end to end.
trying to get through Hie netting, but miss
the holes, which are overshadowed by the
partitions.
“J.R.D.”: j\fy experience is that plagues
of fleas are worst during prolonged dry
weather; with the advent of heavy rain they
fade away—-for the time, anyhow. Hot
water, with a little phenol or kerosene added,
applied liberally to the floors and allowed to
soak between, tile boards will make the place
uncomfortable for the hoppers, hut if the
ground underneath the flooring be kept damp,
or at. least prevented from becoming dusty,
the fleas will look for some more congenial
place to corroboree in. It tlie house is built
on high blocks it is not a hard matter to
turn the hose underneath it or splash a few
buckets of water about; but, above all, keep
the fowls well away.
“Disc Harrow”: A strawberry-grower in
my (Vic.) district works a small side-line
in the sale of the leaves to a city shop.
When nicely tinted they make good table
decorations.
“Hornby” : To dam a bore drain in order
to give a high section a periodical watering,
build the, usual wall with earth-filled bags
(crossed binder fashion and supported on
each side by stakes) to within a foot of
the desired height, Then build from each
ertd to the top, leaving a gap the length of
two bricks placed endwise in the centre.
Fill the gap with a double layer of bricks
mortared with mud. When the high plot is
watered the bricks can be lifted out so
that the water wil carry on to the lower
country. The brick “gate” never gets out
of order and is quick and easy of operation.
“Bushman”: If you erect a barb-wire fence
across a short cut run the two wires in the
middle through a section of old water pipe.
This dodge covers the wire, protects clothes
arid hands, and is appreciated by those using
the track.
“McNoon”; On dairy farms where calves
are reared, it is a good plan to erect bails to
feed them in—with a separate feeding recep-
tacle in front of each. The bails can be
made from small posts and light hardwood,
and, if properly erected, each can be'closed
or opened by a flick of the hand. In bails,
calves learn to drink quickly without assist-
ance,' and the fast drinker does not get more
than its share; nor do the calves suck
each other's ears. Left in the bails after
finishing their drink, and given a little,
crushed oats, bran or meal, they quickly
learn to eat.
“R.C.C.”: In a recent article on rat-
poisoning, it was said that barium carbonate,
Avhile poisonous to rats, is harmless to human
beings. Don’t chance it. The carbonate is
changed by gastric juices to barium chloride;
and that is a violent poison. The .antidote
is any sulphate, such as Glauber salts, which
changes the chloride into the insoluble sul-
phate. The barium is an undoubtedly good
rat poison, though I have found it rough on
cats.
A Perth (W.A.) man wrote to the local
“Sunday Times” saying he had an Indian
runner duck, hatched on September 20.
which, commencing on February 29, had laid
171 eggs in 172 days. He suggested it was
unique. But the departmental adviser, to
whom the point was referred, replied that
this high rate is fairly common in Indian
runners and Khaki, Campbell ducks; “the
best record I have heard of from one duck
is 367 eggs in 365 days.”
“J.R.D.” : “Mulgo’s” surmise (B, 3/8/’32)
that jungle and forest grow on identical soils
is not correct, and the fact of the difference
in the soils provides the answer to his ques-
tion. The terms fig-scrub, vine-scrub, rain-
forest, applied to the dense, tropical timbered
and vine-interlaced country, were officially
scranned some years ago and “jungle” or
“jungle-scrub” substituted. In the Macpher-
son Range and all the hilly eastern N.S.W.
coastal country—not only up north, but
round Gosford, and even at Robertson—
these alternating patches of jungle and forest
occur. The jungle timbers—fig (which is
primarily a parasite), cedar and tallow-wood,
etc.—flourish in the deep, rich, friable vol-
canic soils and leave the forest hardwoods
to the poorer, lighter soils. Lantana is not
so discriminating; the seed will strike any-
where, but, whereas in the cleared jungle it
grows at a tremendous rate into dense
thickets 30ft. high, with dark green foliage,
the forest lantana is lighter in growth and
in color of leaf. Bananas will yield heavily
for years without further fertilising on
jungle scrub-land. On the forest country
they do well for a year or so; then they
fizzle out —as many new-chum growers dis-
covered to their sorrow during the Tweed
banana boom of eight to ten years ago.
“G.G.6” : Some time ago in northern N.S.W..
some bright lad evolved the idea that “rub-
bish” wools would make an excellent binding
for gate approaches and for roads. The wool
was thrown down and mixed with soil and,
with a bit of traffic, made a fairly hard and
level surface in dry weather. The experi-
ment was made in Queensland many years
ago, and was found to be less successful in
all circumstances than initial trials sug-
gested. The wool bound the surface all right,
but when the heavy traffic came along in
wet weather it, with tts load of clay, trans-
ferred itself to the waggon wheels and spokes.
Wet, it was a hundred per cent, worse to
get off the tyres and wheels than blacksoil:
dry. it could give steel reinforced concrete
a stone and a beating. There aj’e roads in
parts of N.jS.W. which would now bring
payable prices per cubic yard if their wool
content could be marketed. It never pays,
in the wool trade or any other, to assume
that your stock-in-trade is down and out for
ever.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Scot (28), N.S.W., four years’ bush exp., wants
job book-keeping or among machinery.—l97s.
Middle-aged Englishman, Sydney, wants light em-
ployment, as messenger, odd-jobs man, etc. Can
drive lift.—l92o.
Young lady, Sydney, senior typist, varied office
exp., seeks position, city or Eastern Suburbs.—lB97.
To buy “Metropolis,” by Thea von Harbon. —1853.
Woolclasser, N.S.W., disengaged about October 6,
wants shed to follow. Refs. —1913.
Young woman (25), Vic., well educated, wide exp.
motor-driving and travel, wants position as travelling
companion' or chauffeur to lady.—l9os.
Tobacco-growers on shares wanted. Refs, required.
—1899.
English botany student wishes to exchange speci-
mens of wildflowers with Australians interested in
botany. To Leonard Luckivill, 36 Lower Redland-
road, Bristol, England.
W’ords of verse beginning “I work for da cocky
—-two quida da week.”—l92s.
To buy “Scientific American” for December, 1931.
—1893.
To buy “Hobbies” or “Handicraft” fretwork
designs.—lB92.
To buy or borrow copy of “Lady Chatterley’s
Lover,” by D. H. Lawrence.—lB4s.
To buy Oct. and Nov., 1931, issues of “The
Woodworker.”—l9B2.
To buy “Practical Leather Manufacture,” by 11.
G. Crockett. —2009.
Words of poem containing the line “If you like
him or you love him, tell him n0w.”—1978.
Information Sought.
Particulars of new comet discovered near
the Southern Cross last April? —lB46.
The comet is known as the Iloughton-
Eusor, combining the names of its simul-
taneous discoverers. On April 2 .the
comet was within 14deg. of the south
celestial pole, and had a fairly rapid north-
erly motion. About inid-April it passed
through the Southern Cross. The comet
never got any brighter than at the time of
its discovery, so never reached naked-eye
visibility. It has now gone to northern
latitudes, and has passed out of view, except
to very large telescopes.
(1) Number of passengers using FKnders-
street station, Melbourne, per day? (2)
How do the figures compare with the busiest
London railway stations? (3) Did Austra-
lians design the lay-out of Flinders-street
station?— l7l4.
(1) At the last actual tally, made in
1927, the number was 317,390. Present
number is estimated at. 230,000. (2) Recent
estimates of the daily quota at the four
biggest London stations are ; Li verpool-street,
230.000; London Bridge, 135.000: Waterloo,
121,000: Broad-street. 120,000. (3) Flinders-
street station was designed by officers of the
Vic. Railways. Can’t say whether or not
they were all natives of Australia.
What are the sizes of the largest tele-
scopes in use in English and American
observatories?— l9s6.
The tWo largest in Britain are the 36in.
reflector at the Royal Observatory, Edin-
burgh. and the reflector of the same size at
Cambridge Uni. An instrument with a
mirror of the same size is being made for
the Royal Observatory, Greenwich. The
largest reflector in the world is the lOOin.
mirror at the Mount Wilson Observatory,
California. A 200 in. mirror is being made
for use in that part of the world. A 74in.
reflector is part of the equipment of an
observatory now being established near
Toronto.
Where can I obtain a bandsaw and bench
mounted on truck to cut logs up to 4 ft. 6*n.
in diameter? —1891.
Timber of that diameter cannot be cut
with any of the portable bandsaw outfits on
the market. Such mills arc small in capacity
and only suited for areas of saplings and
second-growth stuff which is intended for
handles and similar small _ sections. None
of these plant's have been installed in Aus-
tralia. Cost, with present duty of 10 p.c.
aid valorem, would come close to £lOOO.
Associated Country Sawmillers of N. S.
Wales, Union House, Sydney, may be able
to advise you how to meet your require-
nients.
Flow to apply wallpaper to a painted brick
inferior wall? —l7l6. '
j Practically impossible to make a good job
of it without scrimming the wall. If this
is impracticable the best you can do is to
get the walls as clean as possible, and use
pjiste made with rice-flour instead of the
usual wheaten-flour. Add a small handful
of alum to every bucket of paste, stirred
iii while the mixture is still very hot.
T have an old Admiralty chart of the
Q'land coast between Townsville and Cairns.
Where can I buy a new one, and the cost?
— j-1158.
Order it by number —2349, Magnetic
Islaud to Double Pt.; or 2350, Double Pt..
to Cape Grafton—from Turner and Hender-
son, Hunter-street, Sydney; or Watson, Fer-
guson and Co., Stan ley-street, Brisbane.
Price, about 6s. each.
! Hota to remove tattoo marks? —loll.
j B .uy some tannin from a chemist, make
a* highly-concentrated solution, spread it on
the tattoo marks and treat them with a
tattooing-needle as the tattooer does. Next
vigorously rub the places with a stick of
lilnar caustic and allow it to act for some
tune, until the marks have turned entirely
black; then take off by dabbing with a clean
rag. \\ ith slight symptoms of inflamma-
tion a scurf .ensues which comes, off after
14 to 16 days, leaving behind a reddish scar
which assumes the natural color of the skin
after some time.
Method of applying color to fibro-cement
so that it will not rub off? —1896.
Give a coat of cement sealer and then
paint in the ordinary way.
Could a small electric-light plant be
operated by use of a windmill, using storage
batteries? Would such a device be as cheap
as an internal-combustion engine plant? Do
any Australian firms sell a wind-driven
electric plant? —lB3o.
No Australian plants on the market. In
view of the very small amount of fuel taken,
together with its low cost, it is cheaper
and less troublesome to use an internal-
combustion engine.
How to reduce leaves to their vein sys-
tems, and make copies of them for reference
purposes? The leaves I wish to prepare are
those of the forest hardwoods. —1705.
Boil in a weak solution of caustic potash
(the length of time depending upon the class
of leaf; about 20 minutes is right for box
leaves). Wash gently in clean water until
the softer tissues are cleaned away. Bleach
with chlorine (use bleaching powder).
Finally treat and bleach in hydrogen per-
oxide. This also helps to preserve the
material. Dry between sheets of blotting-
paper. For reproduction the leaf skeletons
may be placed in a frame over photographic
paper, which, after exposure to the sun, may
be developed and fixed in the ordinary way.
Can a ratepayer of a N.S.W. shire insist
on an examination of the council’s books in
order to ascertain if rates are paid?— l9o2,
Yes. He may inspect entries relating to
his own or adjoining land free; a fee may •
he charged for inspection of other entries.
(1) What are the most famous Rembrandt
etchings? (2) How many known prints are
there of these? (3) When did they last
change hands and at what price? —l9Bs.
(1) A portrait of Dr. Arnold Tholinx
and the second state of a portrait of Jan
Six. (2) Three of Tholinx, one in the British
Museum, one in a private collection in
America, and one in the Edmond Rothschild
collection in Paris ; one of Jan Six, kept in
Rembrandt’s family till 1928. when it was
sold to a. private collector in London. (3)
Tholinx in 1924 at £3780, and Jan Six in
1928 at £B2OO. the highest price ever paid
for a print.
(1) Did Aubrey Beardsley sign any of his
drawings with a nom-de-plume? (2) If so,
why ? —2OOO.
(1) Yes, as “Phillip Broughton” and
“Albert Foschter,” names appended to two
drawings published in the “Yellow Book.”
(2) Probably as a joke on the critics, who
had been unkind. “St. James’s Gazette,”
as a result, condemned and abused Beardsley
and praised the drawing by Broughton.
(1) How io prepare clear glass to take
water-color paint suitable for lantern-pro-
jector slides? (2) Method of photographing
colored objects on lantern slides? (3) Best
transparent coloring for lantern slides? (4)
Book dealing with this subject and where
obtainable? —lso7.
(l) Coat the glass with collodion. (2)
and (3) Lantern slides are prints made on
slow plates from quarter-plate negatives.
Ordinary water-colors are used for tinting.
Color photography is a. very complex busi-
ness, on which Harringtons, Ltd., 386
George-street, Sydney, could advise you.
(4) “Lantern Slides,” by Dr. B. T. J.
Glover, Is. 9d. posted, from Harringtons.
Method of oxidising or bronzing steel or
iron? —l66s.
Take acetate of copper by weight, 100
parts; cyanide of .potassium, 250 parts;
bisulphite of soda, 200 parts; liquid
ammonia, 100 parts; protochloride of zinc,
80 parts; distilled water, 10,000 parts. Dis-
solve the cyanide of potassium and the bisul-
phite of soda, then dissolve the ammonia
in three-fourths of the Water and the proto-
chloride _ of zinc in the remaining water.
Next mix the two solutions. Immerse the
articles in the bath cold and withdraw when
the color is secured.
What are the differences between the
various classes of mandates held by Allied
Powers, and in what manner were former
German and Turkish tenitories split up
among the Allies?— l9lB.
Class A mandates apply to communities
detached from the Ottoman Empire, declared
to have “reached a stage of development
where their exlsteiice as independent nations
can be provisionally recognised.” Such
mandates are Mesopotamia (now Iraq),
Palestine, held by Great Britain, and Syria
(including Lebanon), held by France.
Glass B (German colonies in Central and
East Africa) are administered under condi-
tions which will “guarantee freedom of
conscience or religion, subject only to the
maintenance of public order and morals;
the prohibition of abuses such as the slave*
trade, the arms traffic, and the liquor traffic;
and the prevention of the establishment of
fortifications on military or naval bases, and
of military training of the natives for other
than police purposes, and the defence of
territory.” Equal opportunities for the
trade and commerce of other members of
the League of Nations are also provided for.
►Such mandates are Togoland and Cameroon,
held in part by Great Britain, and in part
by France; the n.-w. portion of German
East Africa, held by Belgium, and the rest
of former G.E.A. (now Tanganyika), held
by Great Britain. Glass Ois composed of
territories, which, owing to sparseness of
population, small size, remoteness from
centres of civilisation, or geographical con-
tiguity to the territory of the mandatory,
are administered under the laws of the
mandatory , as integral portions of its terri-
tory, subject to safeguards in the interests
of the indigenous population. They com-
prise former German South Pacific posses-
sions (except Nauru and Samoa), held by
Australia; Samoa, held by Maoriland;
Nauru, jointly by Aus., M.L. and Great
Britain; former German North Pacific pos-
sessions (Yap, etc.), held by Japan; and
former German S. W. Africa, held by South
Africa.
In what years did the various Australian
State Governments first raise public loans ,
and when did N.S.W. and Vic. first raise
loans in London? —1919.
N. S. Wales, first local loan, 1842; first
London loan, 1855. Vic., local, 1854; Lon-
don, 1859. Q’land commenced borrowing in
1861; S. Aus., 1856; W. Aus., 1845; and
Tas., 1867.
(1) What was the total of Russia's public
debt just prior to the 1917 Revolution? (2)
How much was owed to AmeHca and Eng-
land? (3) When were these debts cancelled?
(4) What is the Soviet’s public debt now,
not counting the conceited debts?— l9l7.
(1) 32.300 million roubles. (2) To Great
Britain, £561,402,000; U.S.A., 400,000,000
dollars. (3) By decree of Jan. 28, 1918.
(4) On July 1, 1931, the Soviet’s debt
was as follows (in millions of roubles) : (a)
Lottery loans, 2,236.5; (b) interest-bearing
loans, 1.724.7; (c) current liabilites, 4.5;
total, 3,965.7.
Who was the Frenchman whose grave is
situated at La Perouse, Sydney?. —l936.
He was Louis Receveur, a Franciscan
friar, who accompanied La Perouse on his
voyage through the Pacific as naturalist and
astronomer aboard the Astrolabe. At Tutuila
he was wounded by natives and never recov-
ered, dying at Botany Bay, February 17,
1788.
What is the purpose and scope of the Com-
monwealth Science and Industry Endow-
mprti Apt 1935
The Act establishes a fund of £lOO,OOO,
the income from which is to be used to pro-
vide assistance ( a ) to persons engaged in
scientific research, and ( b ) in the training
of students in scientific research. The fund
is controlled by a trust consisting of the
three Government nominees on the Council
for Scientific and Industrial Research. In
accordance with the Act arrangements have
been made to send a number of graduates
abroad for training in special fields of work.
(1) How many cubic feet of gas will a 10-
h.p. gas-engine consume in eight hours on
full load? (2) On no load? (3) How many
units of electricity will a 10 -h.p. 3-phase
motor take on full load during the same in-
terval of time? (4) On no load? —1872.
(1) Depends upon the type of engine. The
consumption may be as low as 18j cubic feet
per b.-h.p. per hour, corresponding to a
total consumption of 1480 cubic feet. (2)
About 200 cubic feet. (3) The motor will
take 8.78 k.w. or a total of 70 units during
eight hours. (4) About 74 p.c. of the full
load power in the case of a good motor, or
660 watts, corresponding to 5.3 units, during
eight hours.
How docs the value of the Australian £
in India to-day compare with its value in
1928 and how lias the cost of living in India
moved between the same dates? I want to
find out how much more, or lesfi I should remit
to confer upon the recipient the same bene-
fit as in 1928 1— 1880.
The Indian exchange rate has been linked
to sterling throughout the whole of the period,
and the rate Australia on India lias varied
in the same proportion as the rate Australia
on London. The fall in the cost of living
in Bombay, as measured by an index number,
is 27.27 p.c. from the average for 1928 to
May, 1932. It. is probable that the fall in
the cost of living approximately compensates
for the rise in the exchange rate.
How to transplant tree-ferns? —1782.
Out about 3ft. from the top of the tree-
fern and plant it in soil containing a big per-
centage of sand. Water regularly to help
fresh root-growth. The old butt can tnen
be discarded.
In growing roses from seed (1) When
should, seed hQ planted? (2) Are they likely
to behave like dahlias and throw a number
of variations? My seed would be bee-pollin-
ated—l6B6.
(,1) Sow in the autumn in shallow boxes
of sandy loam and keep well watered. (2)
Surest way to obtain special varieties is
to transfer the pollen with’ a fine brush
from the anthers of one variety to the stigma
of another, after which the flower-head
should he covered with cheese-cloth.
When was the time ball at Williamsto-wn
( Vic.) erected ? —1692.
Towards the .end of 1860.
The best time to prune flowering shrubs,
particularly crepe myrtle, wigelUa, lilac and
oleanders ? —1799.
It should be done when flowering has
finished. All dead, decaying and cross-grow
ing limbs should be cut out.
Meaning and origin of the word “cabal"?
—1833.
It comes from the French “cabale,” which
is derived from the Hebrew “cabbala” or
“kabbalah,” and was applied in Charles ll.’s
time, to the committee of the Privy Coun-
cil, known as the “Committee for Foreign
Affairs,” which developed into the Cabinet.
The connection here was pointed by the
fact that the word was spelt by the initial
letters of the names of the five Ministers.
Clifford, Arlington, Buckingham, Ashley and
Laudendale, who signed the treaty of
alliance with France in 1673. The term
has come to mean a body of intriguers, or
a secret intrigue or conspiracy.
(1) How much is paid amnudUy by Aus-
tralia as interest on Government overseas
loans? (2) Of this amount, how much
represents exchange? (3) How much extra
does the exchange disparity add to the cost
of imports to Australia? —l66o.
(1) As at June 30 last, £28,666,631. (2)
If the present rate, £125, continues to
operate during the current financial year.
£7,167,000. The operations of the National
Debt Sinking Fund in regard to the re-
demption of overseas debt may also involve
the Governments in further expenditure on
account of exchange, but no information is
available as to the extent of such transac-
tions, if any. (3) Imports, valued in
British currency, into Australia during the
year ended June 30 last totalled £44,729,825.
The estimated Australian currency value of
such imports is £56,986,798.
Brief Answers.
>
G.C.: See “How to Make Model Aero-
planes, Airships and Kites,” 2s. 9d. posted.. . .
E. 8.: From Charles Charlesiwortli, Spring-street,
Moss Vale, N.S.W., 7s. 6d E.J.L.: Legally, there
is nothing to prevent them from doing 50... .
E.M.S.: The engravings have no value... . A. 8.: No
person is allowed to play billiards on licensed
premises under the age of 18. On unlicensed
premises there is no age limit... .C.M.T.: The talkie
“Frankenstein” was banned by the South Aust. film
censors. . . .A.D.: You are entitled to a 22* p.c.
reduction in the rate of interest W.W.H.: There
is no comprehensive book on the subject. Agu-
culture Department, Sydney, will advise you... .
T.M.H.: The matter is covered by Section 243 of
the N.S.W. Local Government Act, 1919 R.P.:
(1) No, it is used in the best processes, and you
cannot improve on it. (2) Yes, it appears in all
the standard formula), and should not be omitted
when specified. It acts as a rectifier and corrective.
. ...F.T.: You will find short article on the subject
in Henley’s “Book of Recipes, Formulas and Pro-
cesses,” probably available at the Public Library... .
S.R.H.: James Tyson died at his Felton run, near
Cambooya, on December 4, 1898; his estate in
Queensland, N. S. Wales and Vic. realised about
£2,500,000 R. 8.: A concrete water tank, 15ft.
internal diameter and 15ft. deep, with wall and
bottom thicknesses of 7in., would hold 16,000 gallons
of water. There would be required 20.85 cubic
yards of concrete, or 143 941 b. paper bags of
concrete, lOf cubic yards clean sand and 19 cubic
yards Jin. clean gravel or crushed hard stone....
J.P.: Write N.S.W. Forestry Commission, Sydney. .. .
W.F.L.: Stock inspectors in Q’land do not qualify
by passing examination at the Uni., which does not
teach the required subjects. Study can be carried
out at home, progress depending on the individual.
. ...E.8.: Dayton “News” or Dayton “Herald”
A.K.: By depositing a copy of the work at the
Copyright Office, Brisbane, and by paying a registra-
tion fee of ss. (2) J. C. Williamson, Ltd., will
read any play submitted. Most of the amateur
theatrical societies in Sydney—Aust. Play Soc.,
Independent Theatre, Pickwick Theatre Group,
Players’ Club and New Sydney Repertory Soc.—ate
eager to procure Australian plays. (3) Not contem-
plated at present. .. .A.G,: Send a synopsis only. It
should be not more than 2500 words J.M.M. :
The Felicia Hemans Prize is awarded annually for a
lyrical poem, the subject of which may be chosen by
thq competitor. It is open to all but is not awarded
more than once to the same person. Particulars,
Registrar, Liverpool Uni., England... .S.K.D.: “Folk
Lore,” 265 High Holborn, London, W.C.I. Contribu-
tions should be of a scientific and not of a popular
character.. .H.D.C.: The three largest pastoral hold-
ings in Australia are Victoria River Downs station,
13,060 sq. miles; Alexandria station, 10,630 sq.
miles; and WaVe Hill station, 7200 sq. miles.
All are in the Northern Territory. .. .A. 0.5.: The
native olive (Olca paniculata ) is a moderate-sized
tree, with a succulent drupe resembling that of the
common olive. The wood, when newly cut, has a
rosc-like fragrance. The heartwood is nicely mottled,
tough, durable and suitable for turnery 11. W.:
The pins used in connecting the Sydney Harbor
Bridge are in place in the structure... . J.J.IL:
Unable to trace a elbckmaker of that name. Prob-
ably it is the name of the retailer.. ..T.8.; “A
Year on the Great Barrier Reef,” by C. M. Yonge.
... .D.L. : Our figures were taken from the “Common-
wealth Official Year-Book,” 1931, page 521
W.S.H.: Vostoek is a low, sandy islet, discovered, by
Bellinghauser in 1820. It is leased to S. R. Maxwell
and Co. of Auckland, M.L C.N.;* “Canadian Book-
man,” 516 Yonge-street, Toronto, Canada. .. .J.G.A.:
The Strathnavcr sails from Bombay on October 28.
Porta of call: Colombo, October 30; Fremantle,
November 8; Adelaide, Nov. 12 ; Melbourne, Nov.
14; Sydney, Nov. 17, Agents at Colombo are
Maekinnon, Mackenzie and Co.; at Fremantle, Melb.
and Sydney, Macdonald Hamilton and Co.; at
Adelaide, Elder, Smith and Co. Letters may be
posted up to 4.45 p.m. on October 12 to catch the
ship at Colombo... .N.T.0.C.: The secretary of the
Howard League for Prison Reform is N. Sachistlial.
25 Wickham-street, Arncliffe, Sydney.... 5.8.: Pay
of enlisted men in the U.S.A. Navy ranges from 21
dollars to 157.50 dollars a month, according to
grade and length of service. Pay of warrant officers
varies from 1.53 to 189 dollars a month; of commis-
sioned officers below the grade of rear admiral,
1500 to 6000 dollars per annum... .C.F.: The stage
version of “Potash and Perlmutter” was written by
Montague Glass arid Charles Klein... .M.R.J.: In
England the Solicitor-General is the second legal
adviser of the Crown, in position and duties similar
to the Attorney-General; a member of the Ministry,
and of the House of Commons, and always knighted.
... i .G.T.: N.S.W. has 71)0 miles of coastline; Vie.,
680; Q’land, 3000 ; N, Territory, 1040 ; .South Aust.,
1540 ; West Aust., 4350 ; and Tas., 900. V. .F.D.M.M. ;
A Society of Australian Genealogists has just been
formed in Sydney. E. McC. S. Hill, •23 Denning-
Street, Coogee, a member of the provisional com-
mittee, will be able to furnish particulars... .
E.D.; See Gregson’s “Australian Agricultural Co.,
1824-75,” available most public libraries... .L.K.:
The largest members' of the rat tribe, are the two
or three' species of Mallomys (Papuan giant rat), of
which one, M. hercules, grows to a length of over
18in., tail not included... .W.R.; The guarantor of
a mortgage is protected equally with the mortgagor,
but such protection does not extend to a guarantee
wholly dissociated from a mortgage within the
meaning of the N.S.W. Moratorium Act, which
includes an equitable mortgage... .H.J.W.: Gold has
been valued from the earliest ages. Allusions io it
are frequent in the Old Testament. The Greeks
were acquainted with the metal and it formed some
of their earliest coins... .J.H.P. : Try plenty of
cloudy ammonia in hot water, with soap and a
brush as we 11... . J.S.J.: Get in touch with G.
Wilson, hon. sec., Q’land 16ft. Skiff Assoc., care
Town Hall, Brisbane F.E.: A list of newspapers
accepting contributions, with editorial requirements
and rates of payment, is contained in “The Aust.
and N.Z. Writers’ and Artists’ Year-Book” (2s.
6d.) E. 8.: Taronga Zoological Park will accept
the bird if you take it there... .G.W.F.: “Building
Model Yachts” (2s. 6d.) .... J.W.C.: Write British
Trade Commissioner, Sydney... .J.S.P.: Walther and
Stevenson, 395 George-street, Sydney.... M.J.M.D,;
“Veterinary Notes for Horse Owners,” by M. Horace
Hayes (275.), and “Special Report on the Diseases of
Horses,” by the U.S.A. Dept, of Agriculture (13s.
6d.) J.P.: The phrase has its origin in the
adventures of William Buckley, a runaway convict
who was found after living 32 years with the
Victorian blacks.. . .R.S.: Write Capt. Wallace West-
land, TrincomaJee, Ceylon... .R.P.: The Monterey
took 624 hours to travel from Auckland to Sydney
last June, and the Monowai travelled from Welling-
ton to Sydney in 70 hours, 25min. Both were record
runs.... J.E.: The fact that you have enclosed
an area reserved for a road does not constitute you
its owner and you have no claim upon your neigh-
bour. Even if the properties adjoined you could
not force him to assist in erecting any particular
form of fence; that would be a matter of agree-
ment between y0u.... (Many others mailed.)


One Punch Paliy
By Montagur Grover
Synopsis : Throwing in his job as sur-
face hand at an Illawarra coalmine,
Patsy Quirk, amateur middleweight
champion of Australasia, trains under
Buff Cody at Ben Buckler for his
first professional fight—with Loubet,
middleweight cha/mpion of France.
Buff gets Patsy's friends, Stan Car-
lisle, an artist, and Jimmy Packing-
ton up from the South Coast to keep
his mind off the fight. At Bondi Stan
introduces Phyllis Deane, who talks
with Patsy about herself, and more
about Staii. With Des, Ms disapprov-
ing brother, and old-man Quirk,
Patsy and his handlers arrive at the
Stadium.
Chapter Y.
MARTIN and Des Quirk, with Stan and
Jimmy, left the others at the door
and marched through to their re-
served seats. There were still two rounds
of the preliminary to go, and the lads
fought, scarcely scientifically, but with a
courage and vigor that commanded applause
from all sides. Even Des, determined as
he had been to remain disinterested, found
himself following the blows with intensity.
At last the gong sounded and the referee
parted them, placing his hand on the head
of one. “Hoskins the winner,” he an-
nounced. There was a cheer and some
hooting. Martin Quirk cried indignantly
that the other boy had won. Des differed
from his father. The argument was becom-
ing technical when somebody threw four
gloves into the ring. The murmur was
hushed. A young man in a sac suit entered
with a megaphone. From each of the four
sides he bawled forth the announcement
which everybody already knew:
“Jules Loubet, middleweight champion
of France, will fight Patsy Quirk, middle-
weight amateur champion of Australasia;
the best of twenty rounds!”
There was a wild burst of cheering from
the five hundred South Coasters, and
Martin Quirk so far forgot the teachings
and warnings of Father Phelan as to rise
in his seat and wave his hat.
He was recognised. “There’s Patsy’s old
man,” yelled a voice from the back seats.
“Where?” “Where?” “Where?” came
from all sides.
“That’s him in th’ front row—in th’
grey suit,” answered the speaker. “Give
him 3 cheer.”
“Patsy’s ole man,” roared a bull-voiced
Illawarraite. The cheer rose.
Martin Quirk was hysterical with pride,
but he waited until Jimmy nudged him
before he stood up and bowed. There was
another uproarious cheer, while Des scowled
a scowl of shame.
Then there was a hush. Somebody in the
upper benches had seen the movement in
the crowd about the entrance which indi-
cates the coming of the principals. Through
the neutral tint of everyday clothing a
blue spot shone. It was the sweater of the
first of Loubet’s seconds.
The band struck up the “Marseillaise,”
and the crowd rose, honoring the country of
the visitor, as the three blue-clad French
seconds and Loubet himself climbed into
the ring. The Frenchman bowed to each
point of the compass. He wore blue trunks,
a belt of his beloved Tricolor and a woolly
dressing-gown of fantastic design.
There was another movement at the
entrance and a spot of red shone. Above
it was the shaggy head and the big mou-
staches of Buff Cody. Then came Joe
Tolani, then Patsy and then the last of his
seconds. When Patsy climbed into the ring
the band played “This Bit of the World
Belongs to Us,” and the huge galvanised-
iron building ' rang like a bell with the
cheers. Patsy wore green trunks and a
sweater of dingy grey.
The principals took their seats as the
leading seconds made their arrangements.
Then the announcer stepped foi-ward once
again with the second chapter of his short
story: “Jules Loubet, eleven stone two;
Patsy Quirk, eleven stone one!”
The referee, in white, entered the ring.
Loubet cast aside his dressing-gown, and
Patsy hauled off his sweater. They scratched
their feet in the resin like belligerent
roosters. The referee called them up with
their leading seconds. He told them what
he would and what he would not permit.
Then he ordered them back to their comers.
The seconds crawled through the ropes,
swinging the seats out of the ring. The
two boxers stood in their corners resting
on the ropes. The gong sounded.
As he strode across the diagonal of the
ring towards Loubet, with shoulders swing-
ing in unison with each step, Patsy was
not frightened, but he was in a tremor of
nervousness. On the verandah at Ben
Buckler he would have fought the French-
man to a finish as calmly as he faced Joe
Tolani in training; but here, with ten thou-
sand people gazing at him, with the thought
that his whole future depended upon the
next hour’s fighting, with the lights and the
color and the cheering and the band and the
knowledge that Des, his own brother, was
longing for his defeat, he felt his knees
sink beneath him and his heart sink. But,
while he kept his shoulders loose in accord-
ance with instructions, he kept his mind
taut by sheer effort of will.
He noted every infinitesimal movement
of every muscle of the Frenchman’s frame as
they circled around each other like battling
birds. He saw the muscle of Loubet’s
left shoulder quiver. Instantly he smothered
with his right, ducked and hooked with his
left. The swing passed harmlessly over his
head; his. own punch landed only on the
Frenchman’s biceps. It did no harm but
it raised a tremendous noise, the South
Coast benches, under the impression that
it had reached Loubet’s jaw, howled with joy.
But there was genuine value in that
punch. The clash swept the nervousness
from Patsy. Crowd, lights, bands, families,
futurity were forgotten. He and Loubet
were alone, battling for supremacy. That
was all that mattered.
The Frenchman left an opening over his
guard. Patsy shot a straight left that landed
on his cheek. There was a clinch and some
half-arm exchanges. Patsy did not know
that he was hit, but some seconds later
felt the warmth of a trickle along his jaw.
Loubet had contrived to cut open his eye-
brow with a corkscrew jab that tore the thin
skin. He pushed forward as the French-
man gave ground, crowded him into a
corner, swung with his left and landed on
the jaw. It was not in the right spot or
it would have ended the battle; still, it
counted for something.
Patsy was perfectly at home now. In
the clinch, he grinned over Loubet’s
shoulder at the crowd and there was a
laugh from that side of the house. Uncon-
sciously, Patsy had revealed something that
is as great a factor in the popularity of a
boxer as courage or skill—the possession of
a sense of humor. They were broken and
sparring for openings again when the gong
rang.
The house cheered itself hoarse. Patsy
had made a. good beginning.
“Good iron, Patsy,” whispered Buff Cody
as he rubbed the ice on. the boy’s head and
the others massaged his calves. “Yer all
right. Jist keep on th’ same way an’ yer’ll
wear ’ini down.”
That was all Buff said. The school of
trainers who deliver hurried orations ex-
tending throughout the whole minute’s rest
did not include Buff Cody. He knew that
the fewer instructions given a man at the
ringside the better; further, that a man. in
a condition of mental and physical excite-
ment, suffering, probably, from a number
of solid punches, is in no state to absorb
any but the most simple instructions.
In the second round, Patsy fell. The
South Coast benches raised a cry like the
wail of a lost soul, for it seemed to them
that Loubet had landed on Patsy’s point
and sent him to the boards. In fact, the
blow fell short. It struck his shoulder and
that lightly; but, in avoidance, Patsy had
slipped and gone down. The men of Illa-
warra. grew delirious as their champion
rose before two seconds and dashed into
the fray, forcing Loubet to the ropes and
landing heavy body blows.
But the Frenchman was too experienced
to be confused. He smothered and ducked
and countered with a blow flush in the
face that made Patsy see red. For five
full seconds both men threw defence to
the winds. They punched up and down
and sideways and around corners and
straight ahead. The house rocked in
frenzy. Des Quirk forgot religious instruc-
tion and church discipline. He was on his
feet with the rest cheering his brother to
success. As for Martin Quirk, he had, by
this time, only a confused idea of what
was happening. He was drunk—drunker
than he had . ever been in his life. Like
Patsy, he was lost to his surroundings. Only
he and Patsy and Loubet were on the
earth, and he howled for the success of his
son more fervently than he had ever
prayed at the instance of Father Phelan.
When they broke, the reaction came.
Both were tired by their effort, by the pun-
ishment they had received. They panted
quickly; they approached each other
warily. Neither was inclined to take a
risk. The gong sounded and the nerves
and muscles of ten thousand men relaxed
as they settled themselves back in their
seats to sober up.
“Keep yer ’ead, Patsy,” warned Buff;
“you mighter outed ’im in that there dog-
light, but it’d ha’ been jist as easy for ’im
ter out you. Work yer nut.”
Pats3 r kept his head in the third round,
landed two straight lefts well to the French-
man’s jaw and a solid right cross to his
ear. He looked like winning—so like win-
ning that Des Quirk, upholder of the
Mother Church and denunciator of brutality,
found himself punching the air with
clenched fists.
It was just when Patsy looked most like
winning that Loubet, master of in-fighting,
contrived to reach him a nasty half-arm
jolt on the jaw. It did not appreciably
weaken Patsy, but it steadied him. For
the rest of the round Patsy took no chances.
The minute’s rest made all the difference.
He came forward for the fourth seemingly
fresh and strong as ever. He did no',
assume rushing tactics, but kept his man
on the move all the time, crowding him on
the ropes, forcing the fighting and carrying
the battle into the enemy’s territory with-
out respite. But Loubet was far from wor-
ried. He gave ground, not because he
feared Patsy, but because he deemed such
actions good strategic moves. He was still
full of fight. Every now and again he
would step out when everybody expected
him to step back and send in stinging blows,
some of which reached Pats3 7 . But the
round was undoubtedly to the local man,
and when Patsy went to his corner the
South Coast benches cheered again, and
Des Quirk’s finger nails were cutting into
the palms of his hands....
Towards the end of the twelfth, Loubet
showed signs of tiring. For the past three
rounds Pats3' had prevailed. For a full
minute he had sent a succession of straight
left blows into the Frenchman’s face, some
of them shaking his head. It was just at
the end of the twelfth that he saw an open-
ing and stepped quickly forward with a left
swing that met Loubet full on the jaw. The
blow floored him—not with dropped hands
and shaking knees as the man who can fight
no more, but by the actual weight of the
punch. Loubet stayed down to take his
nine seconds, but the gong sounded at thc-
seventh and he walked unaided to his
corner.
Like Patsy in the earlier round, he made
a marvellous recovery during the interval.
When he came forward for the thirteenth,
he seemed as vigorous as ever. He scored,
too, landing Patsy heavily about the body
in the first rally. ' This round was 1 dis-
tinctly Loubet’s, as were a' couple of those
following and, when seventeen rounds had
been scored, the'experts- at the press table
agreed that there was still little to choose
between them.
Both men fought hard for the knock-out
in the eighteenth. That round over, they
grew careful. It is not good to take risks
at such a stage. Far wiser is it to pile up
points which will count in the decision, for,
when a fight reaches the eighteenth round,
the odds are overwhelmingly in favor of a
decision result. As if by consent, they both
adopted these tactics. There were no more
wild punch-drunk frenzies on the ropes, .no
more swinging blows meant to terminate
the contest there and then. The straight
left, the right cross and the jab came into
favor.
When the nineteenth round was called,
the spectators watched the clock over, the
ring as closefy as they watched the pugilists.
The hand circled twice. Then came the last
minute. If anybody was to win by a knock-
out, he would have to hurry. But neither
showed any sign of hurry. They fought as
they had fought the previous two rounds,
smiting carefulfr rather than forceful^.
Fifty seconds—the points decision was
certain. The gong!
There was a loud howl from the partisans
of each man. The referee knew that it
would be idle to speak. His voice would
not cany to the press-table. He raised the
hands of both men. A draw.
Patsy and Loubet shook hands. Loubet
made a little speech in French, of which
Patsy understood not a word, but grinned
towards the spectators as if he had grasped
its full purport. He patted Loubet on the
back in reply, and was dragged off by Buff
Cody to his corner. Martin Quirk, in defi-
ance of all the rules and regulations of the
Stadium, had clambered over the press-
tables and through the ropes. He was in-
coherently congratulating his son, swearing
that he had. won by a street, and tears
were streaming down his cheeks. Just
behind him was Des, now irrevocably back-
slidden, unashamed, his dour countenance
relaxed into a grin that rivalled Patsy’s.
“I’m his brother,” he announced proudly
to an inquisitive stranger. “He’s made a
monkey of the champion of France.”
In the dressing-room they exulted over
Patsy, who grinned in pride. Then they
made a hurried rush for the train to Illa-
warra. They had intended to stay in Syd-
ney that night, whatever the result, but the
pride of father and brother was such that
they could not let their wife and mother
await the morrow for the details.
“That’s right,” assented Patsy. “Tell
mum I’m not much knocked about.”
They dashed off for the station, fighting
the battle over and over again on the jour-
ney, and, when they reached their home,
kept Patsy’s willing mother awake until
the dawn with the tale of her first-born’s
triumph.
Chapter VI.
After he had paid his expenses and given
Buff Cody an extra five pounds for his good
work, Patsy had £3O remaining from his cut
of the gate. He collected on the Monday
morning and, after he had visited the town
with Jimmy and Stan, he found that the
fight had left him with only five pounds
for himself as payment for three weeks’
training and another week of wasted time
—something less than half of what he would
have earned at the Keira Main had he been
content to remain mute and inglorious.
With a huge cardboard box, they caught
the midday train for Illawarra. Patsy had
sent no wire to announce his visit; all the
same, his father and mother and Des were
on the platform awaiting him. Two score
of Illawarra’s notables had taken a day off
and were with them.
Patsy had not scored a win, but his show-
ing had been such that Illawarra now
counted him among her most eminent and
was prepared to do him homage. Patsy’s
old schoolmaster had slipped out to be
present, and in the street, by the station
yard, as if by pure accident had led his
footsteps that way, was no less a personage
than Father Phelan himself—not the severe
ecclesiastic who had lectured Patsy on the
infamy of striking his fellow man, but the
jovial rubicund Father Phelan who was the
life and soul of every gathering of every
sect.
As the train drew in and their heads
were seen sticking out of the windows,
somebody cheered. Then Mrs. Quirk rushed
up and hugged Patsy deliriously, while the
schoolmaster and the station-master and
Patsy’s, old mates at mine and school
pressed around to shake his hand.
Martin and Des stood aside, flushed and
elated. Then, as they talked together.
Father Phelan approached with a dignified
tread. Des noted him with apprehension.
The iniquity of his own backsliding smote
his soul with the force of one of Patsy's
swings. How could he ever look his pastor
in the face again? But the pastor had for-
gotten his own teachings. After all, it was
something to be the spiritual advisor of a
lad who could put up such a fight, for
Father Phelan had sat up listening to every
word from the enthusiastic radio announcer
at the Stadium. Then Des stood astounded.
The age of miracles had not passed. The
most dramatic incident in the lives of the
Saints had nothing to surpass what took
place before his eyes. Father Phelan
advanced with a smile and grasped Patsy’s
hand warmly.
“So it was a good foight ye put up, ye
young blaggard,” he remarked, with a
twinkle in his eye, “bringin’ sorrow an’ dis-
grace on a dacent woman loike yer mother.
But good luck t’ ye.”
Des had yet to learn that nothing suc-
ceeds like success, and that success and
popularity have found the strong arm of
every church behind them throughout the
ages.
Wellington, the editor of the Illawarra
“Time's,” was there, too. His presence was
partly professional but partly advisory, for
he had acted as Patsy’s mentor in the nego-
tiations preceding the fight. He beckoned
Patsy away, congratulated him quickly and
whispered:
“Don’t commit yourself to any match
before you’ve had a talk with me.”
Patsy nodded and returned to his parents.
On their way home they were stopped a
dozen times by old friends, eager to pro-
claim their pride in their illustrious towns-
man. A few had been numbered among
the five hundred South Coasters to witness
the contest, and it was difficult to shake
these off, determined as each was to tell
Mrs. Quirk precisely how her son had fought
round by round.
At last they reached the Quirk cottage,
a four-roomed weatherboard structure with
a galvanised-iron roof; but, like many of
the South Coast buildings of the sort, its
natal ugliness had been mellowed by age
and largely hidden by a mass of creepers
and the garden of flowers in which it was
set. Beside it was the vegetable patch,
which Martin and the boys tended in their
spare time, and behind it the fowlyai’d and
pigsty, which were the mother’s province.
The door opened directly into the parlor,
from the walls of which gazed gaudy prints
of the Virgin and Child, Pope Leo and
Robert Emmet. On the circular bam-
boo table in the centre shone the scarlet
and gold binding of “The Lives of the
Saints.” The furniture belonged to a
generation long gone; there were antima-
cassars on the chairs. The house, always
clean, was spotless to-day; Mrs. Quirk had
spent Sunday afternoon preparing to honor
-adequately the son who had so brilliantly
disgraced himself. .
“Shouted yerself anew suit, Patsy! said
Martin, glancing at the cardboard box his
son carried. , _ ~.T ~ ,
“Too right,” replied Patsy. I\ow that
I’m a full-fledged pug, I’ve got to dress
the part. You ought to see the Yankee
pugs up in Sydney, Mum. They know
how to look neat but not gaudy.
Cyclone Smith, he’s got a suit thats the
real thing—green with a white stiipe, a
dinky sort of collar and flaps on the pockets
cut like shamrocks. It took me properly,
so I went and got one like it. ’


!1
♦
SOMETHING MORE THAN PETROL
AT THE NORMAL PETROL PRICE
The new C.O.R Plus is entirely different from any other oetrol you
have tried. It gives controlled coinbustion and REMARKABLE
FREEDOM FROM PINKING in high compression engines, whilst
to old cars it brings A NEW LEASE OF LIFE.
C.O.R Plus is tinted blue to denote the presence of a special lead com-
pound—the secret of its amazing performance. This is guaranteed
positively harmless to any part of the most delicate engine .
The colour is the result of the addition of a minute quantity of in-
nocuous, blue aniline dye. It is there for your protection.
the new c.o.r
PLUS DEFINITELY
ENSURES . . . .
INSTANT STARTING +
AMAZING ACCELERATION
+ MORE MILES PER gal-
lon + FULLEST POWER
+ WONDERFUL HILL
CLIMBING + FREEDOM
FROM PINKING.
/A
f smdi
103
PLUS WHAT 7-
PLUS A LITTLE SOMETHING
OTHERS HAVENT GOT
Po'>lSl”st on pnrt I M < .ih 1! (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persian Oil Co. ltd.),
'man at.. Port Melb. 117 Pitt St., Sydney. Agents for 8. Australia and Queensland : Dalgety & Co. Ltd.
slake if
Cyclone
1l NOH'*
If he took his up-to-date neighbour’s advice,
he’d have a “Cyclone” Gate, at very little
extra cost. Stock-proof and no argument.
Practically everlasting. Not a penny or a
minute to spend on maintenance or repair.
It would never swing out of true.
“Cyclone” Gates look as efficient as they are. Make
a wonderful improvement to a property. One
solid electrically welded piece of steel tubing rein-
forced with twisted and interwoven “Cyclone” wire.
Ready painted. Up-to-date management calls for
nothing less than “Cyclone” Gates.
Write for special catalog illustrating and explaining
all about “Cyclone” Gates.
Chain and Knob
Fastener. This
holds the gate se-
curely closed no
matter how the
Gate posts move.
Note how the ring
falls right over the
bolt head.
Bottom Hinge ex-
tends completely
through the post
and is fastened
Hinge also has
bolts right through
«h« pest
Ciiclone
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE C9P™L TO
24 JAMIESON STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, and Adelaide.
* POST
COUPON
Please send me by return mail> your free illustrated and,priced Catalogue of "Cyclone” Metal
Gates and Ring'Lock Fences end comparison of costs
ADDRESS _ “B’tin” 14/9
Mrs. Quirk’s face fell. “Oh, Patsy,” she
murmured apprehensively. The degenera-
tion of her son mixing with a lot of low
prize-fighters seemed to be heralded by his
collapsed taste.
She bent over the box almost in horror
as Patsy cut the string and lifted the lid.
Then, before she could properly grasp what
the contents were, he whipped out a fur
coat and threw it about her shoulders. For
the moment she seemed stunned; then she
looked down at the fur and stroked it with
her hand.
“Oh, Patsy, Patsy, me boy!” She kissed
him devotedly and there were tears in her
eyes. She was not versed in the ways of
expensive dressing, but she had a shrewd
idea of the cost of the coat, and for some
strange reason her thoughts flew back a
score of years to the time when she lay in
bed and looked for the first- time into the
open, unseeing eyes of the flat-faced little
creature which snuggled beside her.
“Well, we’re the coat ahead anyhow,
Mum,” Patsy grinned. “Even if I’m outed
in my next fight, I can go back to the
Iveira Main. There’s nothing lost whatever
way you look at it.”
Chapter VII.
There was a knock at the door. Horace
Egan, licensee of the Illawarra Grand Hotel,
leading citizen and public benefactor, stood
there all smiles.
“Hope I’m not intruding,” he announced;
“I must apologise for butting in so pre-
maturely, but the fact is I want to see
Patsy on a matter of business that won’t
keep. You’ll excuse me, won’t you?”
“Av coorse,” replied Martin Quirk. “Come
in, Horace, an’ taake a sate.”
“Thanks,” replied Egan. “I won’t take
up more time than necessary. I came to
make Patsy an offer. You’re not under
conti’act to the Stadium people, are you?”
“Not so far,” replied Patsy.
“Well,” went on Egan, “if you’re willing
to take on Chiller Spiers for a fight at the
picture theatre here, I’ll give you fifty
pounds, win, lose or draw.”
The Quirk family stood aghast at the
magnificence of the offer. Patsy had it
on the tip of his tongue to cry “Done.”
Then the warning of Wellington came sud-
denly to his memory. Wellington must
have known something.
“Thanks for the offer, Mr. Egan,” he
replied indifferently, ignoring the wild ges-
ticulations of his father behind Egan’s chair.
“But that wants some thinking over. You
see, I left Sydney in a hurry and I don’t
know exactly what’s waiting for me. I’ll
let you know in a day or two.”
Egan did not tiy to force matters. He
recognised that Patsy also knew something
—more than he had anticipated. He took
his defeat calmly.
“Righto,” he observed smilingly. “If
you could manage to decide to-day, it’d
help me considerably. I may say that
I’ve made all arrangements with Chiller
already. I won’t keep you any longer,
though. Fine fight you put up, Patsy; I
congratulate you. Good-bye, all.”
As soon as he was out of hearing, the
Quirk family turned on Patsy.
“Fifty pounds!” cried Martin. “Why
didn’t you snap it up at once?”
“Because I got a whisper on the station
when I arrived. You saw Wellington speak
to me. He was putting me fly.”
Later in the day, Patsy strolled round to
Wellington’s office to get the strength of
things.
“Directly I saw the reports of the fight,
Patsy,” explained Wellington, “I knew
there’d be a big chance for a local match,
and I knew that Horace Egan would be at
the head of it. He’s got the biggest holding
in the picture theatre, and that’s the only
building where you could stage a big fight.
Horace is a keen business man and I was
; sure he’d offer you about half what he
ought to. You haven’t been in the game
long enough to know your own value, so
I gave you the tip. Now, I’ve worked out
what the profits ought to be. Judging by
the crowd that went up to Sydney, you
ought to pull more than that building ’ll
hold. If you take my advice you’ll stick
out for thirty per cent, of the gross—not
the net, mind. That’ll leave Egan a big
margin of profit, even if he doesn’t beat
Chiller out of his fait share.”
Patsy returned to Ben Buckler with
Horace Egan’s contract in his pocket He
had stuck out for thirty per cent, gross and
had got it, correcting Egan’s error in insert-
ing the word “net” in the document and
directing his attention also to his omitting
to supply Patsy himself with a copy.
“Here we are again,” he yelled from the
verandah of the camp:
“Gawblime, it’s Patsy!” cried Buff Cody
from the yard. He cast his medicine ball
to one of the half-dozen others and rushed
through the cottage to grab Patsy by the
hand.
“It’s fine ter see yer again,” he announced.
“I never expected yer fur another month
or so. What’s th’ lurk now?”
“Matched against Chiller Spiers at Illa-
warra in a fortnight. Do you think that’s
enough?”
“Chiller Spiers,” mused Buff. “I’d ha’
liked three weeks; but Chiller he ain’t no
class—rough an’ tough an’ that’s th’ best
yer can say fur ’im. It’s jest a matter o’
takin’ care with ’is sort. I s’pose a fort-
night’ll do, but I’d ha’ liked yer ter take
a rest afore startin’ trainin’ again. Yous
amachewers ain’t like th’ ole ’ands. Yer
like ter go stale.”
“Who are you calling an amateur?”
demanded Patsy. “I’m as much a pro. as
you now.”
“Mebbe, mebbe,” agreed Buff. “But yer
ain’t th’ same. An’ don’t yer be gittin’
swelled ’ead. That’s th’ thing as beats th’
best o’ them. Swelled ’ead’s worser ’n th’
shick, you take it from me. Yer can
straighten up a bloke as shickers sometimes,
but th’ swelled ’ead’s always with ’em. Put
’em on a desert islan’ an’ they’ll go on
pinnin’ tickets on their vests.”
“Got a crowd here?” asked Patsy, noting
the noise from the yard.
“Yair,” replied Buff. “Nice lot o’ young
fellers as yer could meet—Chick Connors,
Bill Gillespie, Pommie Smith, th’ light-
weight, an’ .Joe Tolani. It’s full-house
notices now, but I dessay we’ll bo able ter
fix yer up with a shakedown somewheres.
Mr. de Vernay from th’ Stadium’s out
ter-day, too. D’yer know ’im? Nice bloke
he is, but awful English: ‘Bay Jove, ole
chap’—yer know th’ sort. But a decent
bloke, you take it from me.”
The boxers Buff mentioned were known
slightly to Patsy and he had seen De
Vernay on one of his business trips to the
Stadium. But he declined to accept Buff’s
testimonials of character. Buff was a simple
soul of such exceeding- loyalty to the man
with whom he was at the moment asso-
ciated that he invariably endowed them
with all the virtues. They were his friends,
therefore they must be decent blokes, their
actions must necessarily be laudable, their
enemies must necessarily be actuated by the
basest and most contemptible motives.
For instance, Buff, in his infancy, had
declared a bitter and uncompromising jehad
against policemen, and the righteousness of
this Holy War had been intensified by years
of discretion. Yet with those poiicemen
whom he knew personally he was on terms
of warm personal friendship—friendship
which had sometimes stood him (and them)
in good stead, though at the back of his
mind he marvelled how such decent blokes
should descend to practise such a loathsome
profession.
Buff Cody was a product of the slums.
He had been born and brought up in the
’Loo; in fact, in Duke-street, which most
of the denizens of the ’Loo itself regard
as “too strong”; the Alsatia of a district
which Respectability classes as an Alsatia
itself.
By that strange reversion to decency
which is overlooked by moralists and
sociologists alike, most of his school-fellows
had shaken the dust of the ’Loo from their
feet with approaching manhood and woman-
hood, and had never returned to its
noisomeness. Those who stayed on had
mostly graduated through the larrikin push
to crime or prostitution or both. Here and
there stood men and women—like Buff
Cody—superior to their environment, and
yet, for some strange reason, remaining in it.
Registered Henry, his surname had sug-
gested to some boyish reader of fiction that
he should be called Buffalo Bill. But the
name was too cumbrous for the ’Loo, where
sudden calls have to be made at time's, so it
was shortened to Buff, to be carried by its
owner into middle age.
In his youth Buff had been a member of
a larrikin push, but he pulled out early.
A strong husky lad, he had scored so well
in street conflicts that he had been filled
with roseate dreams of himself becoming a
great pugilist. He had gone so far as to
fight a few preliminaries, but the result
had shown him that more than strength and
huskiness are required by those who would
rise to the higher things of pugilism. His
fights returned him an 'average of ten
shillings each, for those were the dark days
when the World failed to assess the arts at
their true value, when championships of
Australia carried only a paltry £100 as the
winner’s end. But, small though the actual
recompense was, the experience opened the
door of a profession to Buff, and. once
past its portals, he proved himself the
master he certainly was not on the other
side of the ropes. That was twenty years
ago—Buff was forty now—and during that
score of years he had prospered even to
the possession of a pair of brick houses in
the ’Loo and, latterly, of a Ford. Buff
had emerged.
(To be continued next weelc.)
Night.
Night is walking o’er the field
Through a moonlit calm;
Trees for her deep shadows yield
Leaves distil sweet balm.
Devvdrops’ pearl her slippers gem,
Winking at her mantle hem ;
Night walks blest and calm.
Light wakes in her quiet eyes,
Lit by wav’ring star.
Gleaming where her filing scarf lies
Vap’rous, blue, and far.
Love content, with happiness
Walk with Night in gentleness
Tapered by a star.
VIC.
D.D.S.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
While Sydney turfites were deploring the
postponement of Rahdwick races, their Mel-
bourne brethren revelled in the sunshine at
Moonee Valley and witnessed the disposal
of a seven-event programme, which was full
of thrills. Cup candidates were not much
in evidence, but several classic aspirants
competed in the Cooee Handicap, run over a
distance of one mile. Because of her dis-
play at weight-for-age on the previous Satur-
day, when a close fourth to High Brae,
Waterline and Middle Watch in the
V.A.T.C. Memsie Stakes, Segati was a red-
hot favorite at the opening of the betting.
Harry Tpfir, who trains the Manfred filly>
declared that only bad luck could prevent
her from scoring. However, the big bettors
associated with Jack Holt’s stable emptied
their purses on Some Hero, and C. B. Kel-
low’s Heroic gelding, Duncan atop, started
in slightly better demand than Segati.
Segati was physically dwarfed by her
rivals. She seemed only a pony by con-
trast, yet measures 15 hands. Manfred will
be remembered as rather low-set, and Segati
favors him, for Wynette, the dam, was tall
and built ip proportion. It was by a mere
half-head that Segati pulled her backers
through. Drawn on almost the extreme
outside of the field, she used up a lot of
energy in hitting the front. Clearing out
from the opposition, the filly looked home
and dry until Some Hero and K. Cid went
after her at the home turn. With an
apprentice rider up, Segati shook off these
challengers in the gamest possible manner.
K. Cid was only a head behind Some Hero.
This Dunottar colt is striking form with
leaps and bounds, and will be the main hope
of 11. W. Gabell’s establishment at Cup
meetings. Segati ha,s a great chance of
landing the Oaks. Like K. Cid, she also
is engaged in the Victoria Derby.
James Wilson, the Bonny Vale (Quccns-
eliff) studmaster, has had a lean time as an
you STARTED BATHING,
YET?"
Bert ; * Yes, I saved a man from
DROWNING VESTEROAV,"
GtERT ! "BRAVE BOV. HOW O'O VOU
DO IT ?"
Sert'.M drew a. LI PE-saver's
ATTENTION TO HlM''
owner for many months. The last clinking
good thoroughbred that he owned was Out-
look (The Welkin —Monodia), who swept
the boards as a juvenile in the autumn of
1918, and was then bought by the late S. P.
Mackay for 3000gns. The “white, _ black
sleeves and cap” of Wilson were carried in
the Cooee Handicap by Warwong, a three-
year-old colt by Thrice (son of The Welkin)
from Revellet, by Burrabadeen from Mono-
dia. Ilis blood lines correspond very closely
with those of Outlook. Facing the starter
for the first occasion, Warwong was friend-
less at 50 to 1. He surprised by running
up behind Segati at the half-mile, and re-
mained there .sufficiently long to give indi-
cations of a "turf future. Warwong is in
the Caulfield Cup at 6st. 111 b. and the Mel-
bourne Cup at 7st. lib., besides being in the
Derby. Despite his inexperience, the chest-
nut might be a rod in pickle for any of these
races.
Holt was decidedly “on the wrong leg” at
the Valley. The Cooee Handicap plunge on
Some Hero almost came off; but Heroic
Prince, another of C. B. Kellow’s Heroic
gallopers, let him down badly in the Bud-
geree Handicap, and Highland (owned by
Mrs. L. R. Buxton, who races High Brae)
was beaten into' third place in the Corro-
boree Handicap. Each of these prads went
out favorite. A last-moment rush caused
Heroic Prince to supplant Taisho in the
Budgeree Handicap quotes. He ran a poor
fourth. Without doubt Taisho should have
won, instead of losing to Mural Crown by
a head. Taisho began slowly and had to
give A. T. Crcswick’s mare a long start.
He went after her with courage in the short
straight, and just failed to get up. “Tich”
Wilson, the rider of Taisho, entered a pro-
test, alleging that Badger had struck his
mount over the head three times. Stipen-
diary stewards apparently could not decide
the * question from personal observation.
They called in the club’s “vet.,” who re-
ported that no marks of having been struck
were visible on Taisho’s head; protest dis-
missed. Royal Barb, a stable-mate of
Taisho, finished a creditable fourth in the
Corroboree Handicap, and may be persevered
with in minor events. Viol d’AmOur, win-
ner of the A.J.C. All-aged Stakes last
autumn, competed in the Corroboree Handi-
cap. He looked in splendid health, but was
unmarketable.
The Moonee Valley Steeplechase of £lOOO
brought out 20 runners, of whom only 10
completed the course. Tezpur compensated
Gus Powell for his recent bad luck with
Mosstrooper and other jumpers by making
a dead-heat for first place with Baanya, a
’chaser from Tasmania. If Tezpur had
fenced at all decently he would have won
with ease. Bert Thompson had an uncom-
fortable ride on the Ethiopian gelding. Chil-
peric, who carried Frank Dempsey to vic-
tory in the Corroboree Handicap, has Bst.
in the Caulfield Cup and Bst. lib. in the
Melbourne Cup, but is not an easy horse
to train, and his given his owner-trainer,
S. B. Ferguson, a lot of anxiety.
Sydney Tatt.’s Club’s early-spring meet-
ing usually provides some of the most enjoy-
able racing of the year. The latest was a
miserable affair, and everyone was glad when
it was all over. ,T. Pluvius was to blame.
Postponed on Saturday, the infliction was
held on Monday, when conditions overhead
and underfoot were, if anything, worse.
Fields were small (so was the crowd), and
the form by no means trustworthy; a num-
ber of horses that failed •will do better on
a firm track.
Sir Duninald, for one, proved that heavy
going has no terrors for him. Favorably
handicapped in the first division of the
Tramway Handicap at 91b. less than his
Epsom weight, 9st. lib., the handsome little
chestnut was in strong demand at 7 to 2,
and came away from his field just as he did
in the Casula Handicap, run over the same
distance, seven furlongs, at Rosehill in June.
The three-year-old Tingalba tried to_ make
a race of it with him, and did for six fur-
longs, but over the last furlong there was
only one horse in it. The clock showed
1.29, but Darby Munro, on Sir Duninald,
could have cut a bit off that, if necessary.
Tingalba was second and Manawhenua (10
to 1) third. Sir Duninald carries weight
well, and will take some beating in the
Epsom, wet weather or dry.
Chatham has a wind infirmity—the result,
perhaps, of ’flu last season—and it seemed
rather risky to race him with 9.1 on such
a day. Certainly he had the services of
Pike, and Jacko had been scratched; but
it was asking a great deal of him to con-
cede lumps of weight in such circumstances
to good horses like Rogilla and Whitting-
ham. The son of Windbag—Myosotis made
a gallant attempt to bring it off, and looked
like succeeding till Rogilla joined him in
front, with a short distance to go. He
struggled on and made a dead-heat of it,
but was a very tired horse at the finish.
A protest entered by the Rogilla people
(Darby Munro rode their horse) was dis-
missed. Each 5 to 1, they cut out the
seven in 1.285. Whittingham was third;
nothing else ever looked like getting into
the money.
With the scratching of Veilmond, Johnnie
Jason and Cylinder, the Chelmsford Stakes
field was made up of Nightmarch and seven
three-year-olds. Nightmarch could not gallop
in the mud, and his many backers soon
realised that their tickets were worthless.
Kuvera (9 to 2) flattered his supporters
for a mile or so, but was unable to with-
stand Gaine Carrington’s finishing run; Regal
Son (6 to 1) was next. He may conceiv-
ably turn out the best of the three-year-olds,
but those seen thus far in Sydney are noth-
ing wonderful. Having shown no form at
Canterbury Park, Game Carrington was
allowed to go out at 10 to 1. H'e is a chest-
nut by Hunting Song—Left, and had a good
Maoriland record as a two-year-old.
The frail-looking Version made a great
effort to win the Spring Handicap, and it is
improbable that the experience will benefit
him. H'e had to strike his colors to Mana-
whenua (7 to 1), started for the second
time—another for Maoriland. Historic (8
to 1) was third, and Topical, having his
first run over the mile and a quarter, which
tdoiv 2min. 12sec., was fourth. Manawhenua,
a five-year-old gelding by Acre—Country
Picnic, is certainly a useful wet-weather
horse. He is not in the Metrop.
=|: * * *
For Rosehill next Saturday:—
Camellia Stakes: Jacko; next, Sir Dun-
in aid.
Rosehill Cup: Salvador; next, New King
or Satmoth.
Hill Stakes: Johnnie Jason; next, Veil-
mond.
Highweight Handicap: Winooka; next,
New King or High Disdain.
* * *
“Ibn el Issar”: The Ismalian sect of
Moslems must have worn out their praying
carpets offering thanks for the success of the
Aga Khan in the Doncaster St. Leger. As
his Holiness has also collected the Derby,
the Oaks and the Thousand Guineas in his
short racing career, Allah has been good to
him. In this particular race the winner,
Firdausi, went out at 20’s, while Orwell,
the favorite in spite of his squibby
run in the Derby, finished next week.
Dastur, also owned by the Khan, was second,
and two more of his nags, Udaipur, the
winner of the Oaks, and Taj Kasra, were
fourth and fifth. The Derby winner, Tom
Walls’s April the Fifth, also ran.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Tom Lurich continues to get £6O or so a night
for proving his superiority to' the wrestlers
he is meeting at Leichhardt. George Pen-
chiff got all over him, or so it seemed, until
the third round, when, after putting one
foot on his fallen foe’s left shoulder and
working a wristlock that threatened to
wrench the arm out of its socket, Penchiff
was drawn into a body-scissors that cost
him the first fall. The Russian’s arm had
been hurt, and Penchiff got even with a
combination wristlock and body-press in the
fifth. In the sixth Lurich’s left arm hung
helplessly at his side; nevertheless he soon
back-slammed the Bulgar—two falls to one.
Camperdown Jim Purcell (9st.) outpointed
Fred Harris (Bst. 131 b.), from Melbourne,
in 10 rounds of boxing.
Footbrawl
Bright spring weather drew 51,209 per-
sons to the Vic. League first semi-final on
Saturday, between Collingwood and South
Melbourne. Handicapped by the absence
through injuries of their two most reliable
followers, the Souths made a poor show
against the Magpies. By clean marking,
low, straight kicking, good position play and
persistent backing up, the ’Woodmen early
got a 7-goal lead, and held it up to lemon-
time. In the last term South came with a
dash and got within 16 points, but the Black-
and-Whites were not rattled; they put on
three more goals, running out with 17 goals
12 behinds (114) to Souths’ 12 goals 16 be-
hinds (88). Souths were the faster team,
but they fumbled, kicked atrociously and
possessed little system. Their captain and
coach, Westralian Johnny Leonard, was
their best man, and Beard, Robertson and
Brain helped him. The Magpies were uni-
formly good; perhaps Syd Coventry, Regan,
George Clayden, 11. Collier and Dibbs did a
little extra. Gate, £2531 Is. 9d.
* * * *
“Hotham” : The Brownlow medal, awarded
annually to the best and fairest player in
the Victorian Football League, has been given
for the second year in' succession to Haydn
Bun ton, the Fitzroy rover. Bunton, who
came from the country a couple of years ago
and was for a time the centre of a teacup
storm, got 23 votes from the umpires who
adjudicate on the matter. W. Faull, of
South' Melbourne, and Moloney, of Geelong,
tied for second place. Moloney is from
Westralia.
« * * *
The second semi-final of the N.S.W. Rugby
League was played at Sydney Sports Ground
on Saturday in a welter of rain and mud,
and was won by Western Suburbs, who
prevailed over Balmain by 15 points to 7,
or 5 tries to a try and 2 goals. With the
wind, Balmain managed to hold the heavier
opposition in the first half, at the end of
which they had a 7-3 lead. After that the
Western steam-roller went over them, as
the tally of tries will show. In spite of
the awful conditions, there were occasional
bright patches of handling and combined
work, one fine bit by Balmain which ended
in a try after half a dozen men had handled
it being particularly notable. In the second
spell the Westerners largely kept the ball
on the ground and relied on their weight in
combined rushes to carry them through.
Cliff, Pearce and McMillan played great wet-
weather football among the winning backs,
and the forwards, led by Brogan, had a field
day. Fallon did a tremendous amount of
work for the losers, as did Toby at fullback.
O’Dowd showed fine form on Balmain’s wing
in the first spell, but was too well attended
to in the second to do much. The winners
meet South Sydney, the minor premiers,
next Saturday for the League premiership.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The Rugby Union selectors
for the South African tour are to meet in
Sydney this week and reconsider the original
selection for the tour. The two closing club
matches of the season brought some new
talent to light in N.S.W. Butler, the Drum-
moyne forward, looks a good bet for a place
in the revised side.
# $ $ $
“Old Q.”: Though they expect him to
go to Africa many Union football followers
consider Tom Lawton too old for big footer.
He is only 33—a few months older than
Benny Osier, the famous South African back
and captain, who was one of the stars with
the Springboks in their recent tour of Britain.
Ins and Outs
The match between the English team for
Australia and The Rest saw the tourists
win comfortably. The Rest began well by
topping the M.C.C. score of 213 with 244,
Freeman bowling well for them. The Rest
struck a snag in Verity, who took 8 for 60,
though Woolley played a fine knock for 75.
England then closed after making 40] for
5 wickets, Wyatt (171 n. 0.) and Ames
(105) ; The Rest fell for 129. Tlieir ’keeper,
by the way, was P. C. Oldfield, a Cambridge
amateur, but no relation of our own
“Barney.”
“Fitzscray”: The Australian Board of
Cricket Control has learned nothing from
the scanty attendances at the South African
and West Indian matches.' While these
were due in part to the poor quality of the
cricket, the stiff prices charged, especially
for the Tests, were largely responsible.
Nevertheless for the coming English visit
the board has increased the charges made
when the last English team was here and
things were ostensibly prosperous. In the
Tests it will cost 2s. 2d. for a ground seat
(if you have the luck to get one) and
4s. 2d. for the stand. The twopence is for
entertainment tax, but it will be a beastly
nuisance to the public. It is up to the
board to make the admission charges even
money and pay the tax itself—it is far
from broke.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Some London journalist has
perpetrated one of the best bits of leg-pulling
in the history of cricket, and one that has
seriously intrigued that not infrequent type
of Australian cricket enthusiast who is lack-
ing in a sense of humor. Referring to the
bowling of Mitchell, the latest addition to
the coming English team, he describes a
“mystery” ball which the Derbyshire pro.
has devised and “is keeping especially for
the Australians.” This ball “recoils” after
pitching and then—recovering itself, so to
speak—goes on at an increased rate, to. bowl
the flabbergasted batsman. It is an inter-
esting study in elementary physics. To
make a ball “recoil”—perhaps “check” would
be a better word —a great amount of under-
spin must be imparted,' the ball spinning
from the batsman toward the bowler. To
make it carry on at a faster pace requires
overspin in an exactly contrary direction.
How a bowler can completely reverse the
spin after the ball has left his hand has
not been explained.
“Kapai”: I. B. Cromb, the Maorilaud
bowler, who figured with some success for
the All Blacks on their last tour of Eng-
land, has signed up to play professional
cricket with Blackburn in the Lancashire
League next season. Cromb’s cobber, and
one-time business partner, W. E. Merritt,
is playing with the same club. Cromb is
a right-hand swing bowler and a fine field. In
all matches during the All-Black tour he
took 58 wickets for an average of 26.29.
and had the respectable batting average of
16 for 33 knocks;
(Continued on next page.)
The Australian amateur billiards cham-
pionship, which finished in Sydney at the
week-end, went to Queensland, the winner
being a 26-year-old Brisbane accountant, A.
Sakzewski. L. W. Hayes, ex-champion of
Australia and former Empire champion, was
the other player in the final, in which the
closing scores were: Sakzewski, 2001; Hayes,
1902. The winner’s score included a break
of 206.
* :l: * *
“Fitzcray”: Victoria c-amc out on top at
the finish of the lacrosse games in Mel-
bourne, in which every State save Tassy
took a hand. Westralia was only beaten
once and by the Vies., who won every
match and retained the championship and
the Gasland-Mcllarg Gup. South Australia
lost two matches and Queensland took one.
The poor old Ma State qualified for the
biggest wooden spoon to be found in the
Cabbage Garden.
* * *
“Hotham”: The Victorian rowing heads
are first in the field with their programme
for the season, which opens with the Yarra
pennant race on September 24. The Rowing-
Association regatta follows on November 19,
and then that joy of the canoe-dling flapper,
Henley-on-Yarra, will be seen on November
26. The State championship fours- and
2000-metre sculling championships will be
rowed on December 17, and the champion-
ship eights and 21-mile sculling races on
March 18. Sandwiched in between are many
country club regattas, including that at
Ballarat on January 21, when the State
pairs are to be rowed off.
* $ $ *
“Davies Park”: Queensland sporting
bodies have made something of a reputation
for themselves as maintainers of discipline.
The cricket heads .some time ago did not
hesitate to jettison celebrities who took
the stand that their ability put them beyond
the indignity of obeying the governing body’s
instructions. The Australian Rules foot-
ball people this season disqualified several
beetlecrushers for long terms for rough
stuff, and recently a tennis-player who
“chatted” the umpire went on the ice in-
definitely. The latest addition to the wall-
flowers is a hockey-player. He goes out for
life.


Supreme in Its Own
Field!
THE PERTH
mrns
(1) The largest paper in Western
Australia.
(2) Each issue leads in News and
Advertising.
(3) Its Country circulation is un-
equalled.
(4) The Metropolitan sales are
“home - delivery” circulation,
therefore most valuable.
(5) Foundation Member Audit
Bureau of Circulations.
NATIONAL ADVERTISERS!
This Great Advertising Medium
puts you in touch with a valuable
market in the West.
TRY IT NOW!
ONE OF THE TRUSTY "TUIBA ” TEAM
f
No. 136.
The “TUMBA”
CATTLE POLEY—
THE SADDLE TO LAST A LIFETIME.
EVERY STITCH A HAND STITCH.
This saddle has the narrowest waist or grip it is possible
to put in a saddle—note that the usual skirt is dis-
pensed with and the flap seamed direct on to the seat,
adding greatly to the comfort of riding. The pads are
set well up, almost level, with the head of saddle,
giving increased security, and the flaps are long.
Everything in it is first quality and, with reasonable
care, will rarely be in the repair shop.
PRICE, Bare, £ll/7/6. Leathers, 8/6. Folded Girth,
6/6. Good N.P. Stirrups, 7/6. Complete, £l2/10/-
Freight paid for cash with order to any N.S.W. station.
“K’BURRA” STOCKWHIPS
Guaranteed Kangaroo right through, with inner plaited belly
No. 16. with 10-plait Zair Steel-lined Handle and Bft,. 12-plait Thong. 41/6
No. 1) “Kingfisher” Whip, with 12-plait Steel-lined Handle and Bft.
12-plait Thong, 25/-
i Postage: N.S.W., 1/-; Q’land or Vic., 1/C.
Write for Catalogue of Cheap Saddles from 72/6, Whips from !)/-, Collars, etc.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.,
391 to 393 George St.. Sydney
(Bight Opp. By mock’s Block).
The Man who has revitalised thousands
of neurasthenic cases.
STOP BEING
SHY!
ARE you letting self-consciousness rob you
of all the fuii in life! Because there is
no greater obstacle to your happiness, health
and success than a nervous disposition. You
are not your real self, if you let nervous fears,
blushing, or shyness cheat you of the joy
you could get if you threw off those fears!
Stop being shy of strangers—conquer the
terrible fear of your superiors. Be cheerful
and confident of your future!
I’LL GIVE YOU BULLDOG
COURAGE—IN 48 HOURS!
' | ’HO US AN US of men and women are being
held back —made miserable—made un-
happy. Why? Simply because of bashfulness,
fear of criticism, worry, and dozens of other
fears. Y’et fear is absolutely unnecessary.
I have discovered an amazing method, and I
want you to try it out in your own home,
which banishes fear forever! No trouble! No
inconvenience. No long waiting for results.
This method is perfectly simple, perfectly
logical. It works almost instantly. Try it
now! You will be astonished! In just a
few hours you will find yourself brimming
over with splendid new courage, new daring,
new self-confidence.
Are you timid, bashful, self-conscious, afraid
of people, afraid of superiors? Send for my
FREE Book. Then give tne 48 hours and I’ll
make you bristle with Bulldog Courage!
FREE BOOK!
A remarkably interesting book explaining how
you can cure yourself privately at home, as I
dtd. will be sent in a plain sealed envelope
to all sufferers sending 4d. to cover cost of
postage. Write at once in confidence to
MAIL NOW
FREDERICK CRAY, Desk 11,
Lombard Chambers,
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me absolutely Free,
and without any obligation on my part what-
ever, a copy of your book, “Nerve Strength,
Self-Consciousness and Personality.” I enclose
4d. in stamps for postage.
NAME ..
ADDRESS
uiaj’Si
Ins and Outs
‘‘Tenth Slip”: Arthur Mailey’s side which
toured Canada and parts of the U.S.A. play-
ing exhibition cricket is due back in
Sydney on September 24. As the N.S.W.
grade cricket tourney begins the following
Saturday, the tourists will not have much
time to find their cricket legs. Bradman
is among the returning travellers, and much
interest lies in what threatens to be a clash
between him and the Board of Control. For
it is reported that the batsman has signed
ui> to write cricket stuff for the press in
defiance of the Board.
“Five Ways”: Sydney Cricket Ground
trustees must have been snoring loudly
enough of late to wake themselves up, for
fhey have agreed to provide reserved seats
at the Test matches. It only remains now
to enlarge seating accommodation by abolish-
ing the unnecessary lawns and waste spaces
in front of the principal stands, and the
ground will be on its way to conform to
modern requirements.
“Gabba”: Queensland has been looking
round for some time for ,a good slow bowler,
most of the talent available being fast or
fast medium. The heads consider they have
a possibility in Jack Govau, of Brisbane
Grammar School, a big fellow who can spin
them both ways and with a good length.
During the holidays he has turned out with
Eastern Suburbs grade club and has been
successful. In G.P.S. cricket he has proved
a holy terror, his 1931 bag being 80 wickets
at an average of 8.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The absorbing question in
Australian tennis just now is the Yankee
visit. All doubts as to whether the Ameri-
cans will really come here have been
set aside by an official cable stating that
they will definitely cast up in Sydney
on November 5. The side is the one fore-
cast in The Bulletin some weeks ago:
Vines, Allison, Van Ryn and Gledliill. The
three first-named will be accompanied by
their wives, who are all three accomplished
players. The opening clash will be a three-
day match with N.S.W. at Sydney, begin-
ning November 10.
“Baseline”: The Australian tennis heads
have decided that in the Test matches
against the Americans each day’s pro-
gramme shall consist of two singles and two
double rubbers. If the visitors agree, the
doubles will be arranged to permit the
partners of both teams to be changed for
each programme. Norman Brookes and
Frank Peach have been appointed Austra-
lian selectors, with power to co-opt a third
man if they think it necessary.
“Cut Shot”: Imitation is the sincerest
flattery, and if they have been able to beat
our best at tennis the Americans have had to
cast about to find a “boy .wonder”—the ex-
pression is apparently American, though I
have culled it from the Sydney yellow press
—to match our own schoolboy, McGrath.
The result of the search is Frank Parker,
aged 16, their junior champion. To quote the
American description of his qualities, “He re-
minds one of Lacoste on account of his steadi-
ness; of Tilden, as he makes the best assets
of his brilliant passing shots ; and of Richards,
who won Ills first American championship
when only 15.” Judged by American stand-
ards, that is a fairly deprecatory summing up
of the young genius. But there is no mention
of the lad’s meeting and defeating the best
players in his country. McGrath has done
that, with the exception of Crawford. It
reminds me of the story of the old duel-
ling hand who asked the principal he
was to second next morning if he could use
a pistol. “Certainly,” said the other, “I can
snuff a candle at 20 paces.” “Ah. yes,”
replied the old bird; “but did the candle have
a pistol in its hand also?”
The Nineteenth Hole
“Colonel Damurize”: Since those con-
cerned are on the other side of the Tasman
Sea. I will take a risk and comment upon the
conduct of a number of associate members
at Auckland. These were members of
Pupuke golf club and were incensed at a
rule, which is common to many golf clubs,
prohibiting associates from playing on Satur-
days until 3 p.m„ and enjoining that, at all
times after, male players should have the
right of way. The rule is intended to give
the males a chance to get a game at the
week-end. the only holiday most of them
have during the week, whereas most asso-
ciates can play from Monday to Friday.
Just as in the notorious Eden case, in which
Eve and another were implicated, the mere
ban was enough to make all associates deter-
mined to avoid it. They sought an injunction
from the Supreme Court, and the Judge
granted it, to the consternation of male
members. If the by-law is ratified at a
general meeting of the club, however, it
will stand. The meeting is to be called. It
should be worth attending—somewhere near
the door.
Jje 4* % Jfc
“Hotham”: The Victorian professional
golf championship saw the holder, W.
Fowler, well down the. course, the final
being won by George Naisinitb, of Riversdale,
who beat Horace Boorer, of Woodlands, 5 and
4. Boorer won t.lie title in 1927, while Nai-
smith was runner-up to Rufus Stewart, of
South Australia, in the match for the Aus-
tralian title last year. Among those wdio
also ran was Fergus McMahon, winner of
the Australian professional championship in
Adelaide the other day. >
PASSER-BY: "Hey, wot yer doin’?”
ARTIST: “We’re goin’ ter play Australia v. England, and this cove ’as gotta be one
of them Indian Princes.”
“Brassey” • Nothing is too impossible to
happen in golf (B. 7/9/’32). There is au
instance of a U.S. lady who played into a
bird’s-nest high up in a tree. Sooner than
incur the penalty in addition to losing the
ball, she climbed the tree and played out
successfully. Another instance in Ireland
which caused a lot of controversy was that
of a man who hit a sheep with a hard tee
shot. The animal carried a thick fleece and
galloped as far as the. green before the ball
dropped out near the hole. The player
claimed the hole in two, but it was held
that Rule 17 (Sub. 2) covered the case.
This lays down that in the case of a ball
lodging in anything moving, another shall
be dropped without penalty as near as pos-
sible to where the moving object was when
the ball struck it.
“FY7”: Certainly golf is sometimes
stranger, than fiction (B. 7/9/’32). A
curious incident in my own experience may
be worth recounting. On a family station
in the Barcoo country we had a small bush
golf course. Playing an approach shot over
a belt of brigalow one day I could find no
trace of my ball, though the ground was
very bare. In the distance a small mob
of kangaroos was hopping away. It was
my custom to brand my golf balls with a
miniature replica of my registered brand.
Some months later, a brother who had been
bringing cattle down from the N.T. wrote
to say that he had shot a female kangaroo
near Oamooweal and had found a golf ball
with my brand on it in her pouch. From
its appearance he concluded it had been
the plaything of various joeys, the one in
situ having it firmly clasped to its breast
when unpouched—if that is the right ex-
pression,
❖ * :i: *
“H'oylake” : The annual golf match between
British and American teams for the Walker
Cup resulted in the usual black eye for
Britain, which lost for the seventh successive
year. The final score for the 12 matches was
9v> to the Yanks and 21 to Britain. America
won eight matches and three were halved,
while Britain won one. Let the name of
the solitary winner be inscribed in letters
of gold. It was Leonard Rawley, and he beat
George Voight one up on the 30th green.
Frances Ouimet, the American amateur cham-
pion, was the star of the winning side. ■
Car and Cycle
“Hardshell”: The true touring motorist
will look with disgust on the latest of
“camping-out” accessories to motor travel
in the country. Already Australian shop-
windows are full of elaborate tents, stoves,
furniture, etc., to be carried in the car
or lugged behind it. in a trailer. England
has now come along with an entire bungalow
of canvas on wooden frames. This has a
floor and includes two beds, chairs, a table
and other oddments. The whole folds up
into space enough to go on a luggage-grid
at the back of the car. That sort of thing
is not camping out. It is simply trans-
ferring the amenities of Suburbia to the
eucalyptic cloisters of the Outback. No, oue
can be reckoned a true camper-out who has
not shared bis blanket on the bare ground
with bull-ants, snakes and other ferae
naturae, or has not sat up at night in a
downpour trying to keep a fire alight with
sodden wood.
“Pore du Chemin”: I think I can speak
for the great majority of my fellow motor-
drivers when I protest against a recent
dictum of a N.S.W. coroner that to run
over a pedestrian presents to the motorist
a prima facie case to answer. T am aware
that the moth-eaten Common Law declares
that the pedestrian has the first right to
the use of public roads, but that ancient
obsession has entirely vanished since the
introduction of the speed-waggon and the
road-hog. About the only right that custom
has maintained to the pedestrian in the
matter of public roads is that he should
still be expected to pay for them, but when
it comes to claiming the sole, or indeed any,
use of them, then it is time to kick. I would
point out that in most of the Australian
States horses and other cattle straying on
the public roads may be impounded until
their owners redeem them. I say the time
has arrived for the law to be extended to
all pedestrians, with special clauses for
hikers.
❖ ❖ ❖ $
‘‘Chain Drive”: Though flip English dirt-
track riders defeated Australia in the recent
series of international races 18. 7/9/’32),
they were badly beaten in the fourth at
the Crystal Palace. The Australian team
of 10 included five Queenslanders: Arthur,
Case, Huxley, Grosskreutz and Smythe. The
others were Lamont, of N.S.W., Van
Praag, of South Australia, and .T. Chap-
man, R. Johnson and A. Wilkinson.
* * *
“Ball Race”: The first of Australia's
classic road races for push-bikes, the Gonl-
burn-Sydney ride of. 120 miles, will be run
this year on September 17. There is a very
strong entry, Dunlop-Perdriau, who are
handling the show, reporting a closing tally
of 454, one of the largest for years, and
including all the best of Australian riders.
The record for the race, shr. 22min. SOsec..
stands to the credit of Hubert Oppermun,
who put up the figures from scratch in 1930.
“Sprocket”: The “Warrnambool” kicks oft
on October 8. The professional race covers
a course of 165 miles and is run in con-
junction with the 100-mile event for ama-
teurs from Colae to Melbourne. Founded in
1895, the “Warrnambool” carries with it
the road-cycling championship of Australia.
How road conditions, with improved tyre
and machine manufacture, have helped
riders to yearly achieve better form is seen
in a comparison of times. In the first race
A. Calder (2 hours’ start) won in llbr.
44min. In 1.903 sculler-cyclist Dick Arnst won
from scratch in 7hr. 43min. Last year Lynch,
of Victoria, sped over the course in 6hr.
13min. 18sec. Dunlop-Perdriau, who for years
have controlled the big - show, expect a record
entry. Test matches are being held in
various States to determine accredited repre-
sentatives, apart from the freelances.
Miscellaneous
“Shell” : The world’s professional sculling
championship, once an exclusive Australian
appanage, has been retained by Britain. Ted
Phelps, the young Thames waterman,
downed ex-Australian Major Goodsell by a
length in 17min. 6 l-ssec. over a 4000-met.ro
course with a turn at 2000 metres. Good-
sell’s time was 17miu. lOsee., but Phelps could
have won by a much larger margin. Phelps,
now 23 and weighing over 15 stone, won
the Cup from his cousin, “young” Bert
Barry, in 1930 and has successfully defended
it ever since. The distance rowed is a new
one for the race, and the turn in the middle
is a modern idea altogether. Money con-
siderations required that the race should be
rowed at Long Beach, California, where
there is not room for a full straightout
course.
* * :|: :!:
“Splash”: Something new to Australia
will be the aquatic show and sports dis-
play which will be held in Sydney at the
Grace Building in King-street early this
summer. The display will include almost
everything in connection with aquatic sport
and holiday-making, the exhibits ranging from -
first-class cruising yachts, speed cruisers and
outboard-engined craft to fashionable beach
clothing. During the show special lectures
of use and interest will be delivered by ex-
perts and will range from navigation for
yachtsmen to arranging the yachting menu
for a week-end cruise. Dry-fly fishing and
recent developments in swimming styles arc
other items to be dealt with.


•*%
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
• • •
Opposite Union
from Entrance
SYDNEY.
Club anti Two Minutes
to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 1 9/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
Missing Friends.
p INDER, FRANK FREDERICK, of
Birmingham, England, last heard of in
Sydney and Brisbane. —Will anyone who has
known him or has seen him please write to
W. L. Ginder, 118 Old .Christchurch Road,
Bournemouth. England?
8 HOURS’ RESTFUL
SLEEP TO-NIGHT!
Not sleeping too well? Get a package of
Cream of Yeast and take two or three of
these remarkable health-giving tablets. The
results will surprise and delight you. To-
night you will have eight hours’ perfect sleep,
and to-morrow you will feel a new being.
Cream of Yeast is a recognised tonic medicine,
a quick, harmless, reliable purifier, nerve-
restorer, “pep”-giver and “pick-me-up.” Cream
of Yeast combines the benefits of concentrated
yeast with other recognised medicinal agents,
in such a way as to increase the practical
health-giving value of the preparation and
produce benefits not obtainable in other ways.
Cream of Yeast is a great remedy for sleep-
lessness, digestive upset, skin troubles, attacks
of “nerves” and for “run-down” feeling gener-
ally. You can get a flask of genuine Cream of
Yeast tablets from any chemist for 1/11.
Here is Better Health at trifling cost.
Missing Friends.
OWLING, JOSEPH, formerly a plumber
afterwards a driver, age about 42, for-
merly resident at East St. Kilda, Melbourne,
will hear something to his advantage if he
communicates with National Trustees Com-
pany, 113 Queen-street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Re JOSEPH HENRY OLDFIELD—
Deceased.
(Sometime known as Henry Moore),
late of Lottah, in Tasmania.
AT/ILL HERBERT GEORGE BUR-
W GOYNE, a nephew of the above-named
deceased, last heard of at Grafton about
twelve months ago, or anyone knowing las
whereabouts please communicate with the
Public Trustee. Hobart ? .
WANTED INFORMATION HORTON.
IF the descendants of WILLIAM PETERS
1 HORTON, some of whom were resident
many years ago in Victoria and New South
Wales, will communicate with MESSRS.
STILEMAN, NEATE & TOPPING, of 16
Southampton Street, Bloomsbury Square,
London, England, thfy may hear of some-
thing to their advantage. It is believed
the children of Mr. W. P. Horton include
John Albert Edgar Horton, Mrs. Emily
Matilda Wilson and Robert Ernest Horton.
Amusements.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
Williamson Imperial Grand Opera Co,
KING’S THEATRE:
MARGARET RAWLINGS in
THE GOOD FAIRY.
FAMOUS Broken Hill holds its wonted popu-
lation of about 26,000 in spite of these
so-called “bad times.” A drive m aid or
the hospital has just raised £3200 clear
of all expenses. That is a symptom of tne
life—and of the soul—that animates the
place. All the people in town and distna
are well informed, as they read
“THE BARRIER MINER”
every day of their lives. On Saturday you
can have a circulation of oyer 7°°o if ou
like, covering the whole of the city
country areas. _______
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3<L
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
Twice the number of mounted police, and
half the number of politicians, and the open-
ing of the State Parliament would have
been a brighter and better thing. . This
Letter strolled into Macquarie-street in time
to see the sudden pomp of clattering chargers,
blue uniforms with red trappings, white
helmets, blue of the Air Force, glitter .of
medals, the upright busby, the drooping
plumes on cocked hats. Women and men
crowded the balconies of Parliament ITouse
for this the best part of the show, and John
Public, who had no ticket and no work,
mooched along to have a look, too.
The - Legislative Council chamber looked
as though it was staging a rehearsal of a
tin of sardines. It was crowded with a
double ration of law-makers, the Govern-
ment House party, the Mayor and his lady,
and wives of Ministers and the lesser public.
If you were one of the Wives you were in
a special enclosure, otherwise you took a
back seat, and glad to get it; or if you
didn’t care much for speeches you looked
into all the rooms and decided that it was
a pretty comfortable club. Mrs. Webster,
M.L.G., was the only woman among the
members. Mrs. Green has resigned.
Men and women off the leash pranced
around to the President’s room to be revived
by a rather belated morning, tea. Here
came the Premier’s wife, who was effec-
tively dressed in the rich red of claret
topped by a black coat. Daughter Gwen
stood by. Other younger political fry in-
cluded Patricia Manning, daughter of the
Attorney-General, and Laura Chaffey. Lady
Game, who looked radiant in nut browns,
brought Hubert Murray’s lady, the little
Mayoress wore black and green, and Mrs.
George Earp, Miss Crowdy, Dean Talbot’s
wife, a sister of Speaker Dan Levy, Mrs. H.
S. Dettman and her ’teen-old daughter, Minis-
ters and Ministers’ wives galore were among
the crush.
Sir Hugh Poynter is sitting back in his
North Shore home smiling with interest
over the blossoming of two young relations.
One is Oliver Baldwin, the socialist son of
England’s ex-Prime Minister, whose some-
times fascinating, sometimes unpleasant,
“Questing Beast” is just on the market. The
other is the oldest son of. Sir Hugh’s good-
looking cousin, Angela Thirkell. Just about
20, this young man is drawing £250 a year
in bursaries —he has with scholarships and
such educated and kept himself since hi;
was 16. Perhaps this isn’t to be wondered
at when one remembers that his grandfather
is the great Greek scholar, Professor
Mackail; and perhaps it is a sort of reaction
against the classic tradition of the family
that the new shoot should have gone all
modern.
Incidentally, talking about the classic
tradition, who knows that at the last ice
carnival the dignified and richly caparisoned
Persian prince who handed out the prizes
was Sir Hugh Poynter? H'e is an expert
skater, having lived for years in Canada, and
the “Glassy” sees him two or three times
every week.
Sydney presswomen are mourning the
death of' Jean Hull, one of the city’s young-
est and most versatile journalists. She
started in her early teens first as a con-
tributor to, and then as editress of, “The
Enchanted Castle,” the kiddies’ page in the
old “Daily Telegraph.” In this work she
succeeded Jean Curlewis, writer Ethel
Turner’s young daughter (now dead, too.
alas!), when that pretty youngster decided
on matrimony with Dr. Charlton. Since
those days Jean Hull has done general news-
paper work and broadcasting, her movie talks
and character-reading from handwriting
being well known to listeners of 2UW. Six
weeks ago she developed pneumonia, and
complications set in. On a morning of
sun and shower last week she was buried
at South Head under a mound of flowers,
the spring blooms she had loved so well
being scattered into the open grave by
friendly hands. Jean had the knack of
making friends. Theodore Dreiser, the
American novelist, who had corresponded
with her. will be among those who grieve
over her loss, and so will our own G.O.M.
of art, Julian Ashton.
vv ell. there can be no disagreeable home-
cliat about Philippa Stephen’s engagement
to John Collins, of Bcaudesert (Q.). It is
so suitable that both families are purring.
Philippa is the second daughter of the
Colin Stephens, of Bellevue Hill, and on her
mother’s side is of the clan Knox. She is nice-
looking, always smartly dressed, adorns
almost every meeting at Randwick (her
father is the A.J.C. chairman), rides
well, and, like her affianced, is slick on
the skis. He plays polo, flies his own ’plane,
and is the only son of the late William
Collins and of Mrs. Collins, of Bcaudesert —
the show place up north which the Prince
didn’t visit because of heavy rains and
blacksoil plains.
Not even a southerly straight off the
Antarctic and a scurry of sleety rain could
stop the Dettmans’ party from .being a
success. It was at the Queen’s Club, in a
slitting of pink and red fruit-blossom, and it
glittered with Judges and professors and
Iv.G.’s. Mrs. Dettman looked like an in-
spiration for a Longstaff portrait in black
moires, the soft waves of her hair escaping
into one little curl just behind the right
ear. His hair, on the contrary, stood on
end, as though all the winds of learning
were blowing through it. It was one of
those nice talkative parties where North
Shore-liners discussed such things as Japan-
ese maple (John Butters’s lady had a sprig
of it in her black frock) and Professor Sad-
lier tried to get from the Streets a tip on
the art of being a juryman—the Chief Jus-
tice couple and son Kenneth were there.
Mrs. David Maughan told of experiences in
Europe, and he spoke longingly of climbing
the snowy peaks of Maoriland. The T. R.
Bavins were important people of the night,
she netting a great posy of violets. Pro-
fessor John Peden, the Mayoral; Walders
and Premier Stevens and, his wife (they
came on after the dinner given by the Gov-
ernor to the Parliamentary nabobs) were
others among the guests, whom daughter
Ellis, in grass-green chiffons, helped her
parents to entertain.
Lute Drummond whisked her listeners
away from their chairs in the Highland
Society’s rooms and led them through all
the opera houses, of Europe. Before her
vivid description open flew the doors of
Covent Garden and La Scala and the opera
houses of Berlin and Vienna. Once there,
a thumbnail sketch of the stage and the
national characteristics as expressed in the
country’s music was followed by sister
Jean illustrating French, German and
Italian opera with well-known arias. Last
of all came the story of the gathering and
setting to music of the old Hebridean songs.
There are two volumes of them, and Scots
the world over are indebted for the rescue
of the treasure to a Catholic priest, lather
MacMillan, who learned them from the
crooning of fisher peasants. A Presbyterian
minister in the south, with the help of his
daughter (a pupil of Lute’s) and a musician
friend, set them down, note by note, from
Father MacMillan’s singing of them.
Among other Consulates welcoming the
coming and speeding the parting is that of
Italv. The new Consul-General Marches
Ferrante and his wife have already been
welcomed by
their com-
patriots, and
Sydney gener-
ally feels that
it is going to
like the spark
ling couple as
well as it did
the Grossardi
family. Doro-
thy Welding
here presents
the Marchesa
Ferrante, who
is just settling
into the old
house in
Wylde - street,
Potts Point,
formerly the
home of her
p r e d e cessor,
Donna Gros-
sardi. The
new Consul-General and his wife come to us
direct from Philadelphia.
The Racial Hygiene Association has
formed an auxiliary, and the first function
will be a bridge party at the Pickwick Book
Club on Thursday, the 22nd. The chair-
woman of the new group is Mrs. E. Horton;
the secretary, Mrs. Burley.
George Roper came down from Binnaway
for the Farmers and Settlers’ conference —
lie is a member of their executive—and de-
ferred his return until a Sydney jeweller
had fashioned an engagement ring to his
order. Daisy Goodlet, from Westralia, who
plays soubrettc parts with the Mosman Dra-
matic Society, is the lady. Mr. Roper be-
longs to a well-known Mosman family, and,
like so many other N.S.W. graziers, served
in Sinai and Palestine with the Light Horse.
Another very happy couple are Tessa
McEaeharn and Ray Bawtree. They were
married recently at St. Stephen’s, in Phillip-
street, and this is the first wedding in the
Independents’ family, though that little
company of amateur actors is budding
with a few more romances. The only other
fellow-players in the secret were Grace Hart,
Ilawdou Wilson and Jack Spence. A cock-
tail party given by Doris Fitton surrounded
the presentation by the club of a dazzling
coffee service.
William Harcourt Beatty, a brother to
the matinee idol of pre-war Sydney, died in
a private hospital at Darliughurst early this
week. Up to the last six or eight months
ho had been stockbroking in Shanghai.
This Letter was talking to Miss Sarah
Hynes the other morning, and that small
packet of energy told how she was on the
committee that collected funds for the
Women’s College in the early days when the
higher education of woman was regarded as
an experiment almost as dangerous as the
Stalin experiment in Russia is to-day. The
college is now 40 years old, and _to cele-
brate its birthday a Mask symbolising the
hopes and aims of womanhood will be pre-
sented on the lawn of the Women’s College
in aid of the University Settlement.
Miss E. M. Tildesley, the bright-faced sub-
ject of this picture, is organising the Mask,
which is really a revival of the. one designed
by Louisa Macdonald, then principal of the
college, 20
years ago
Betty Ward.
(1 axi g liter of
veteran jour-
nal i s t Dr.
Ward, a past
student of the
college, an cl
since then a
student of
dramatic art
in Europe, is
producer. Dr.
Leila Keating
is cast for the
one voice that
will be heard
into rrupting
Sibyl and
Rumor. She
will take the
part of the
woman pris-
oner who de-
claims the virtues of Mrs. Fry, the Quaker-
ess, who worked among the women prisoners
and criminals like a saint. The Mask will
be in the form of a procession of the famous
women of all time, starting with Helen of
Troy, including Sairey Gamp and ending with
Nellie Melba. Zena Moller will personate
the songbird, and as a finale will sing the
“Jewel Song” from “Faust.” There will be
Greek dances arranged by Rachel hewers,
and the whole will be presented before the
facade of a temple erected by the students
of architecture. The lighting will be done
by the Engineering School. Its a Dorothy
Welding photo.
That the Catholic Seamen’s Institute has
no lack of friends was shown by the dance
arranged for its benefit last Thursday. This
comfortably filled the Wentworth ballroom,
and lived up to its title, the Maritime Ball,
in the decoration of the tables. The presi-
dent of the women’s auxiliary, Mrs. J.
Ilegarty, had, as the centre-piece on her
table, an exquisite model of a frigate carved
in bone —the work of a French' prisoner of
the Napoleonic wars. One hopes our fore-
bears treated him as well as the little Cor-
sican treated the English prisoner, he found
one fine dav looking with longing towards
the white cliffs of Dover. The story goes
that Napoleon rewarded such obvious love ot
country by the freedom to return to it. Any-
way, there was the model, admired of all, and
more dinkum-Aussie than many around if.
for it is over 100 years since.it first sighted
Port Jackson. “Jack’s House,” its surround-
ings much decked with shells and coral, wus
tue attraction on Mrs: C. Hart's board;
and on Miss B. Maloney’s table a yacht
lightly rode a sea of peach blossom. Travel
posters splashed a blaze of color about the
balcony and the room, and many of the ship-
ping cos. sent representatives. Josephine
Marks organised the flutter; Miss I>.
Maloney and Miss K. L. Newman were the
secretaries. Father A. Jeffcott, chaplain ot
the institute, was a happy looker-on.
Strange the attraction Russia has for
the theatrical profession and those who con-
sider themselves arty-crafty. Sybil Thorn-
dike and her husband Lewis Gasson, follow
ing that leg-pulling hero of theirs, Bernard
Shaw, have been belling friendly sentiments
towards the Rooshians till Sydney is begin-
ning to wonder if Sybil’s golden tongue isn’t
something of a brazen clapper. Margaret
Rawlings and her husband Gabriel Toyne
seem to breakfast on Russian culture also.
It is reported he can speak the language,
but not write it, and it is on the cards that
they will return to England by “the East"
and through Russia. The attitude of
most of us to the communal life was ex-
pressed by G.B.S. to Charles Graves in the
latter’s amusing “And the Greeks.” G. 8.5.,
staying at Juan-les-Pins, and rather expen-
sively housed, remarked: “Of course, I’m a
socialist myself; but where is the man who
would willingly give up four or five thou-
sand a year?” And wasn’t it that very
early preacher of Fabianism in Australia,
H. H. Champion, who said that he was con-
tent to take the politics of the poor so
long as he could eat the dinners of the rich:?
A newly-returned tells that at the. Buck-
ingham Palace garden party (at which, by
the way, she saw Anne Jamieson) hats on
young and old were of the large variety,
though among the young things an Occasional
boater was seen. There’s an Arcadian air
about many of the new hats, and a shep-
herdess droop appears in the front of the
most popular. Flat posies, too, appearing in
the middle front, give a guileless air, intensi-
fied if they are backed by what, looks like a
paper doyley, but is really stiff book muslin.
Gloves are worn short in the daytime, ever!
with the shoulder sleeve, and Irish crochet
embellishes the floppy gauntlets of some.
White Irish crochet rosettes can be very
smartly used round the neckline and edging
the short sleeves of black frocks. Coarse
black net is again in favor for afternoon
wear.
There was quite a merry breakfast at the
Royal to celebrate the wedding of two “Saint
Joan” mummers, Phyllis Best and Atholl
Fleming. Phyllis is the daughter of knight
Robert Best, of Melbourne, and mother came
up for the quick nuptials, which happened at
Christ Church St. Laurence on Saturday in
time for the two to go on at the matinee
performance. It was back-stage that the
bubbly was drunk, Sybil Thorndike and her
husband, Lewis Casson, looking benevolently
on, while Monte Luke, sent for in a hurry by
Charlie Westmacott, took photographs of the
happy pair.
Amongst favorite lion, lecturers at Sydney
women’s clubs (he sometimes gives the
Lyceum a treat) is E. F. Pollock, of Strath-
field. A keen photographer and an ardent
naturalist, he is to lead an expedition during
the Christmas holidays to the coral-edged
isles off the Queensland coast. His former
parties (one was to Lord Howe Island and
ethers north) were so successful that there’s
a big movement from S. Aus., Victoria,
Queensland and N.S.W. to pack up for tropic
isles in December.
Queensland’s quiverful:—
His Majesty’s Theatre is to be a talkie house
for the summer, British Dominions Films starting
there last week with “Sunshine Susie.” J.C.AV.’s new
venture was crowded. Deputy Governor Blair and
his lady, Dr. and Mrs. McKillop, the Mayor and
Mayoress, the A. E. Moores and General and Mrs.
Wilson were among the audience.
Phyllis Munro will wed Leslie Hooper in St.
Andrew’s Presbyterian kirk on September 23.
The Repertory’s chosen play, “Cherry Acres,’ -
pleased Brisbane with its sunshiny atmosphere and
touch of faerie. Mary Macgregor’s sister Ivatlileen,
as Margaret Ann, followed in her sister’s footsteps
creditably; Mary herself was in the audience and
many found the likeness between the gifted sisters
striking. Kathleen, a practised horsewoman, appeared
in riding dress and also in a pink morning dress
and an evening frock of rust-red marocain. Edith
Rowett was outstanding as Margaret Ann’s unpleasant
Aunt Hester; Italia Guyatt did well as Mrs. Brown.
Others in the cast were Cecil and Alan Carson.
Jack Reading, Mary Luya, Mrs. Roy Parkinson, Joan
Sakeld and Gwen Sullivan. George Eaton produced.
There were full houses for both nights. “Cherry
Acres” was written by Mrs. Tobin, and was adjudged
the best of 32 plays submitted.
Mavis Weatherlaice will make the customary vows
to Willie Raff, of Warahgai, Karara, at St. Thomas’s,
Toowong, in October.
White stock and arum lilies dressed up All Saints’
for the wedding of Mervyn H. Gale and Janette
Oliver. Dudley AVestgarth gave the bride away; she
was in parchment taffetas, with a veil of cut tulle
and coronet of lily o’ the valley. Nell Fitzgerald
(Sydney) ’maided in capuchin angel-skin. Freesias
and roses decked Lennon’s for the feasting.
Patrick J. Collins married Lorna Dunn, of Annerley,
one of our lady tennis champions, in St. John’s,
Thompson Estate. Rev. F. AV. Gresham did the
job. The bride, who was given away by her
brother, was in ivory satin with a Brussels lace
veil and bouquet of roses and jonquils. Edith Dunn
’maided in Egyptian red and gold. Iceland poppies
made gay the Imperial Cafe for the reception.
There was a lengthy programme for the compli-
mentary concert to Mrs. Gilbert Wilson in the
City Hall. The Lud Mayor made a good-wishes
speech at the finish and the stage broke into a bower
of bloom. Audrey Anderson, Evelyn Grice, Mrs.
Vince Macrossan, Mary McNeish, Lena Hammond,
Eric Hayne, Vada Jefferies, Gladys Frost, the Apollo
Club Choir, the Austral Choir, the Brisbane Male
Choir, Leonard Francis and Harry Borrodale were
among the contributors, and there was a nautch
dance by Jean Hugale and a bevy of light-footed
ones. Mrs. Gilbert AVilson, who played for three
of her pupils, wore black mariette encrusted with
crystal and jet.


At Last —Secret ot
Health Building
Explained
In days of modern foods and
strenuous life the intestine becomes en-
crusted with food waste, not properly
evacuated —causing dreaded self-poison-
ing ( autoxima ), the result of unsus-
pected constipation, from which nine
out of ten unconsciously suffer. Germs
and poisons breed in this fermenting,
accumulated waste, - enter the blood
stream, causing loss of nerve energy,
depleted vitality making you “old”
years before your time. Practically
everyone nowadays is more or less in
the grip of autoxima, and it is this
which is the cause of one or more of
the serious faults in their health.
Serious sickness, aches and pains will
surely arise unless this crust on the in-
testine is removed and the body made
internally clean. Temporary measures
.only aggravate the condition—the en-
crusted poisonous matter MUST be
cleansed from the system. The prompt,
simple way to do this is to drink
COLOSEPTIC. Gently but surely it
first loosens and dissolves the ferment-'
ing matter off the intestine, and then
smoothly passes it out of the body—
without griping or inconvenience. COLO-
SEPTIC activates the kidneys, pores ot
the skin, and the respiratory apparatus
—thus ridding the blood stream of all
circulatory impurities.
Do you suffer from constipation,
weakness, headaches, indigestion, gas
in the stomach and bowels, backache,
catarrh, rheumatism, neuritis, eczema,
pimples, etc.? Drink COLOSEPTIC
every morning in hot water and watch
your pains or other health difficulties
vanish like snow before the sun. There
is now no reason why you should drag
along with sickness and ill-health. You
can regain that vigorous vitality of
youth throb with energy radiate
glorious health. Prove it for yourself. You
can get COLOSEPTIC in regular full-
size jars from all chemists. Send 1/-
stamps or postal note to COLOSEPTIC
CO., LTD., Dept. P 4. 24 Jamieson
Street, Sydney, for a Special Demon-
stration Jar of COLOSEPTIC, and the
interesting booklet “Autoxima,”
> SOCIAL NOTES-ALL
LADYS LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD.
•• Etc. Etc. Etc. it
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES ©2
NATIONAL SONG COMPETITION.
“The Bulletin” offers a First Prize of
£25, a Second Prize of £lO and Five
Prizes of £1 each for the words only of
an Australian national song. Entries must
reach “The Bulletin” Office not later than
November 16, 1932.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
At Moonee Valley on Saturday the luck
of the course held good and the weather was
fine. The Governor-General was the guest
of the club, and to do him honor daffodils
from chairman Alister Clark’s garden bur-
geoned in front of the v.-r. box. Though
fur coats were left at home there were lots
of gaily-colored cloth ones to be seen. The
greens rivalled the lawns in their vividness
and the new foliage, of the elms looked pale
in comparison. Smart tailored suits were
much in evidence. Mrs. Merson Cooper,
who was accompanied by Violet Mills, of
Maffra, was so attired, pointed fox furs
adding to the effect. Sandra Shaekell, who
wore a white straw hat of bowler mode, also
came tailor-clad. Mrs. Stewart Ferguson
was a study in dark green in suit and mil-
linery, and her sister, Mrs. F. Kitchen, chose
an all-navy turnout. Mrs. Richard Turn-
bull and daughter Anne, Mrs. A. V. Hiskens
and her daughter, Mrs. H'arold Anderson of
Geelong, the Ross Grey Smiths, she tailored
in black cloth, and Mrs. Lauchlan Mackin-
non, in brown, were some of those who
enjoyed the racing and the sunshine.
Prahran Town Hall was gay with mili-
tary uniforms and pretty frocks at a hop
engineered by the local R.S.S.L. Trophic*
of small-arms, regimental colors and the like
gave a martial atmosphere. Major W. T.
Tackaberry, vice-president of the League,
and Mrs. Tackaberry, in black lace, wel-
comed official guests, who included Mayor
and Mayoress Cole, of Prahran, the lady in
white chiffon with a lily-green velvet cape.
At their home Winwick, South Yarra. on
Saturday night, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert
Brookes staged a welcome home to the J. G.
Lathams. Guests included many Uni. folk.
The reception-rooms were decked with daffo-
dils and primroses. Greetings to the returned
voyagers were offered by Uni. Chancellor
MaeFarland and Harrison Moore. In reply-
ing Mr. Latham gave a little resume of his
travels, to which Mrs. Latham, who wore
cornflower lace, added a few remarks in
lighter vein. Mrs. Brookes was in pale lilac*
satin, topped with a bridge coat in black
and gold brocade with a purple velvet collar.
Her daughter Jessie, in a frock of spring-
green angel-skin, lent her mother a helping
hand. Pianoforte solos by John Simons pro-
vided entertainment. Among the guests
were knights Elder and Lennon Raws, witli
their ladies; Mr. Lodge, of the British Phos-
phate Commission, and his wife; Mrs. Alfred
Deakin, mother of the hostess, and Miss
Deakin; Alfred Brookes; Colonel and Mrs.
T. W. White, she brightening a black gown
with a Limerick lace scarf; Dr. and Mrs. A.
C. D. Rivett; Dr. and Mrs. J. A. Bissett,
she in a very becoming mist-blue georgette
gown ; Prof, and Mrs. Scott, Prof, and Mrs.
Agar, Senator Elliott, and the A. E.
Kimptons.
The president, Mrs. Woodruff, and mem-
bers of the Lyceum Club put on a dinner at
headquarters to show Mrs. J. G. Latham,
a former president, how pleased they were
to see her again.
Melbourne Hunt Club forsook its usual
haunts last week and pursued Reynard in
the bush of Mornington Peninsula. Though
the quarry was often sighted there was no
kill. Hundreds of motorists followed the
hunt at a respectful distance.
The Frankston auxiliary of St. Vincent’s
Hospital engineered a gymkhana at the
Cranbournc reserve. Cecil W. Lc Plastrier
was head of the committee, and a bunch of
women headed by Mrs. J. Mann, Mrs. N. F.
Wilson and Mrs. P. O’Collins looked after
the afternoon tea and bazaar stalls. Mary
Bright steered eight girls through a pro-
gramme of equestrian drill.
United at St. Mary’s, Caulfield, were Lorha,
only daughter of the D. J. McNamaras, of
Caulfield, and A. Barton Menogue, son of
Mrs. L. Menogue, of the same locality.
Satin of magnolia shade and a veil of tulle
of tin* same tint formed the array of the
bride, who had Elaine Fyfe in apricot-pink
velvet as ’maid. A small girl and boy-
guarded the bride’s train. Guests mingled
at the Grosvenor, Toorak.
For the wedding of Florence, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. W. IL Dolphin, of Colling-
wood, and George, eldest son of the W. R.
Aspinalls, of East Malvern, arum lilies and
Iceland poppies decked St. George’s, Malvern.
The bride wore brocade of deep ivory tint
that had boon chosen by the bridegroom’s
mother for her knot-tying, and old Limerick
lace, with tulle, formed train and veil. An
attendant maid and a little train-bearer
sported orange georgette. Rejoicings took
place at the Grosvenor.
Wearing white satin and Brussels lace,
Agnes, only daughter of Mrs. Gillespie, of
Melbourne, and of the late J. F. Gillespie,
was married to Colin, only son of the Robert
Bussells, of Essendon, at St. John’s kirk,
Essendon, the. after-rejoicings being staged
at the Windsor. Three attendant maids
were arrayed in lilac tulle, pretty capes
being scattered with Parma violets. The
same blossoms formed the crowns of their
trausparent-brimmed hats.
According to the dictionary a daffodil is a
plant “with solitary yellow flowers,” but
at Melbourne’s daffodil show at the Town
Hall championship honors went to a pure
white bloom of the Beersheba variety. As
contrast t 0 the huge flowers of to-day' some-
one sent along a great bowl of the feathery
delicate little daffodils that were considered
the best 40 years ago. Freesias in new hues
—rose, mauve and deep yellow—were on
show, together with some dead-white cycla-
mens of vast size.
These dull times produce many eases of
misfortune. One of the saddest'that have
come under the notice of this Page is that
of an elderly gentleman whose “eyesight is
nearly gone, and who, because lie cannot
pay a debt of £35 incurred for the building
of the little house in which he lives, is
threatened with the loss of his only shelter.
Also his electric supply is to be cut off,
which means that be cannot use his wire-
less set, the only solace of an old age spent
in loneliness and fust-gathering darkness.
When the Great War broke out this gentle-
man gave up a flourishing business and de-
voted himself to public service. The end
of the Avar found him with impaired eye-
sight, unable to re-establish himself in his
profession. Now lie has only his old-age
pension, most of Avhich goes on medicine,
lie has been for forty years a good servant
of the public, mostly in an honorary
capacity, and this Page has no compunction
about passing round the hat on his behalf.
Contributions will be thankfully received at
the Bulletin’s Melbourne office, 114-120
Flinders-street.
The blouse is back again, Avhicli means
that a waist is once more a per-
missibla feature of female anatomy. In
one of our big emporiums the Chatterer
halted before a bewildering array of ’em.
They ran the gamut of materials from
tAveed to satin. Plain business-like ones
are of cotton or silk with long sleeves and
cuffs. A degree more frivolous are those
with short sleeves, in gay striped silks,
spotted muslins and figured and plain cr£pe
de Chines. Then come lovely things of
chiffon and diaphanous stuffs, trimmed Avith
delicate lace insertions and edgings. In this
section also are blouses featuring colored silk
or bead embroidery.
The billy was boiled at the Albert-street
Con. in honor of operatic soprano Molly
de Gunst and Joseph Post, assistant-con-
ductor of the Firm’s opera co. Fritz Hart
spoke words of greeting and Mary Campbell
handed Miss de Gunst a posy. Mr. Post
made a speech in thanks. Con. students
Beatrice Oakley and Marjorie Bye made
music for the visitors, Miss Bye, who is a
cousin of Frank Hutchens, playing one of
the works of that composer.
The Music Teachers’ Association welcomed
Szigeti and Magaloff, president Harold
Bivins voicing the greeting, to which the
violinist made reply. Violet Somerset, with
Katie Liddlc at the piano, sang several
French songs.
Prince Nikita Magaloff, Szigeti’s accom-
panist, met several of Melbourne’s pretty
girls and a feAV matrons at a four-o’clock tea-
brew at Menzies’ on Friday. Hugo Larsen
introduced the Russian, and Mrs. Neil Law-
rance, who wore a squirrel coat over her
black velvet gown, was hostess of the gather-
ing, helped by her daughter Betty, in a beige
ensemble with a jaunty panama hat. The
Allen lady, Mrs. J. Purves, Mrs. Cyril
Tonkin, Elizabeth and Anne Stalwell, Laura
Nyulasy, Mrs. Douglas Stephens and her
daughter Margery, and Barbara Lyon were
there.
Many members of the Queenslanders’
Association rolled up at the Royal when
Molly de Gunst, of Banaualaud, took the
leading feminine role in “Andrea Chenier.”
Brigadier-General Brand, the president of
the Q.A., on behalf of the association pre-
sented the singer Avith a basket of fruits
and a trophy of flowers formed into a Q.
“Nine till Six,” a play by Aimee aud Philip
Stuart, located in a millinery-dressmaking
shop in Lon-
don’s Regent-
street, which
presents in its
cast numerous
feminine types,
was performed
by the dra-
matic circle of
the P.L.C. Old
Co 11 eg i ans’
Association at
Central Hall.
Allie Robson
produced th e
piece, which
was well acted
and cast. Joan
Ba 11 le, pic-
tured here by
Francie Young,
was charming
as Mrs. Pem-
broke, the pro-
prietress of Hie shop.
In “Tales of Hoffmann,” at the Royal, Lina
Paliughf as Olympia, the automaton, looked,
as near a plump Lend doll as a human
being could look. Her pink diaphanous
gown was gold-lace edged, frilled and hooped
and in her bonnet- were nodding ostrich
plumes. Never did she lift an eyelid or
betray a trace of emotion, not even when
her frock was torn. Bruna Castagna as
Giufietta did her vamping in pale blue satin
and velvet draperies, traced with gold, and
a massive head-dress all aglimmer. Cesa-
rina Valobra, as the last of the trio of
Hoffmann’s loves, sported a liigh-waisted
gown of white satin and in another scene
a negligee of white chiffon. Conductor
Rossi was presented by the orchestra with
a pair of antique Indian vases, accompanied
by an address of appreciation. In the
audience were Mrs. Cowen (Louise Lovely),
whose platinum blonde coiffure went nicely
with lier silvery white lame gown and
squirrel coat; the Hennessy lady and her
daughter Mrs. Bernard 11 einze; kniglit
Stephen Morell and his lady; the J. B.
Bellairs, Mrs. A. Coucliman, Mrs. Harry
Emmerton and niece Mary Emmerton, Pat-
ricia Hammond in a Venetian red velvet
gown, and Sandra Shack ell arrayed in white
chiffon.
At the opening Szigeti recital ail musical
Melbourne was in the Town Tall. Lieut.-
Governor Irvine and his lady had seats in
the stalls a few paces to the front, and
Thomas Brentnall, Mrs. .Tames Purves and
daughter Valerie, Mr. and Mrs. Esmondc
Downey, the W. Finleys, Edward Goll and
his fiancee Muriel Gardner, Basil Hart,
violinist Gertrude Healy and Florence Byrne
were in the audience.
There was ti great influx from Geelong to
cheer Brownlee’s performance in “Rigoletto.”
The baritone gathered in some wreaths of green
leaves gaily beribboned, and also a sheaf of
blue irises dropped from the d.-c. box by,
Mrs. George Chirmside. Mrs. Johu Brown-
lee, in a hyacinth-blue gown, was in the
audience, with Mrs. Hawkes, of Geelong.
Collins-street architecture will be further
transformed and work will be : provided for
some skilled craftsmen by the determination
of the Bank of N.S.W. to demolish the
present building in the Elizabetli-Queen-
streets block, and erect a new structure
to the maximum of 132 ft. While the change
from the old to the new is proceeding the
old London Bank premises on the opposite
side of the street, now the property of the
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co., will
be rented. It is proposed to preserve the
facade of the present bank with a view to re-
erection elsewhere. Erected 75 years ago, it
is regarded as one of the finest examples in
Australia of the Italian Renaissance style.
Pictured here by Ruskin is the violinist
of the Pro-Artc Trio Edouard Lambert, who
is associated
with his pian-
ist son, Ray-
mond, and
’cellist Elfred
Mack. Per-
formances of
this combina-
tion arc fre-
quently broad-
ca s t from
3LO, and at
the Victoria
on a Sunday
evening each
m o nth the
trio, with a
singer, pr o-
vides a pro-
gramme for
the members
of a private
music club
directed by
Ivy Ball.
Edouard Lambert is a Belgian who came
to Melbourne with his son about six years
ago. Having found their feet they were
joined later by Madame Lambert, who is a
singer, and the rest of the family. Mr. Lam-
bert, who is a product of the Leipzig and
Brussels conservatoriums, is on the teaching
staff of our Uni.
Apple Isle items :
The Launceston Grammar School Ball at the Albert
Hall provided plenty of gaiety. The Mad Hatters’
Parade was led by three youngsters trotting under
enormous hats in the school colors, blue, black and
white. Following them came all the fancy sets in
a mass of color. Kate Richardson was president
of the committee and Mrs. E. G. Holland lion. see.
After the children had danced their fancy sets, the
grown-ups took the floor.
The Midland Hunt Club wound up its season
.with a gymkhana and dance at Campbelltown. The
gymkhana included hunting contests, potato races,
menagerie races, etc. Powell’s Hall was appropri-
ately decorated for the dance in the evening, the
stage being occupied by a painted wooden huntsman,
three hounds and a brushwood fence, while scarlet
and white streamers draped the long windows.
Members and guests came from all over the country-
side and the Campbelltown orchestra made the
music, introducing hunting songs with good effect.
The Hobart Repertory Society’s presentation of
four one-act plays by local authors drew a full
house at the Memorial Hall. Marcus Gibson’s
comedy “Smith and the Devil” proved the most
popular; the other offerings were Celia Manning’s
“The Reckoning,” Marie Dechaineux’s “Vision” and
an adaptation by W. E. .Fuller of a mystery story
by A. Christie. The programme ended with Harold
Chapin’s “Dumb and the- Blind,’’ rounding off the
amateur efforts with a professional touch; it was
excellently played by Fred Brough and his wife, R.
Hudspeth and a promising youngster, Margaret
Bostock.
Mrs. Roy O’Connor provided the trophies for the
Canadian foursomes played at King’s Meadows links.
Mrs. D. L. Hollis and Mrs. G. B. Rolph came out
on top, with Mrs. Carl Stackhouse, Miss Cuff, Miss
Ruddock and Miss Meston all giving a, good account
of themselves.
Bishop Hay had a chance of seeing himself as
others see him—or at least as artist Aileen Dent sees
him—when he was presented at the Lyceum Club
with his own portrait., Mrs. Henry Dobson made the
presentation and music and tea filled up the rest
of the afternoon.
The engagement is announced of Lesley, only
daughter of the F. L. Bisses, Fitzroy-place, and
Stanley Prell, Gundowringa station, Goulburn
(N.S.W.).
Snippets from S. Aus.:—
At the Tattersall’s meeting at Morpliettville Mr.
P. J. Flannagan (chairman) and Mrs. Flannagan enter-
tained at the committee afternoon tea. Mrs. Flan-
nagan wore a black ensemble and a shiny black
hat. The Mayor and Mayoress were present, Mrs.
Glover wearing a black tailored suit with a beige
vest and a small black hat in shiny straw. The
drastic change in the weather from a warm spring
morning to a wet and wintry afternoon was unfortu-
nate for those who had donned new summer frocks.
Mrs. Glover was accompanied by her new daughter-
in-law-to-be, Miss Betty Masters, just arrived from
England.
The Mayor and Mayoress invited a number of the
musical people of Adelaide to meet Szigeti and
Prince Magaloff at the Town Hall, where the recep-
tion-room was gay with peach blossom. Szigeti’s
final concert was packed.
A bright private dance was given by three
hostesses, Dr. Helen Mayo, Dr. Constance Finlayson
and Miss Gertrude Young, at their joint home,
Brougham-place, North Adelaide. All the young
people were friends of Betty Mayo and Angus.
Walter and John Maitland. Betty is a niece of Dr.
Mayo, and Miss Young is the aunt of the three
boys. Dr. Finlayson wore a charming frock of
honey-toned satin with a short coatee of velvet in a
darker shade trimmed with beige fox fur. B>.
Mayo chose black lace, and Miss Young was gowned
in beige satin and a brown velvet coatee.
There is still gratifying support for the numerous
demands for charity. The Kuitpo Gala has been a
huge success. His Ex. opened the show in the
Exhibition Building on a stage that was a wealth
of flowers. The dolls’ section was rushed by the
crowd; a number of quite historic dolls had been
lent for the occasion, one of them, the property
of the City Council, having belonged to Queen
Adelaide in her infancy.
The way of Westralia: —-
Kalgoorlie boomed for the races. The gardens
were vivid patches of color and bougainvilhea wound
a purple scarf round the members’ stand. Among
those who saw Isle of Astur win the Cup were Mrs.
Elsey, the Bishop’s lady, in flecked tweeds, and Mrs.
Leslie, Mayoress, in a pastel coatee over her flecked
frock. Mrs. Herbert Leake mixed cherry and white;
Mrs. Sam Grinnyood’s fur coat was worn over navy-
blue; Mrs. W. Leslie also took a fur coat along to
protect her black georgettes; Mrs. Marmion preferred
a magpie ensemble; Gweii Williams looked sporting
in her bright blue coat and skirt and white satin
blouse; Alice Blackett favored a beige and chocolate
check; Mrs. Eccles wore Burgundy and Miss Eccles
was in grass-green and white spotted silk; Mrs. Athol
Norrie wore blue and black; touches of white relieved
Mrs. Frank Venn’s navy; Helen Venn’s dove-grey
was dashed with cherry; Mrs. Keith Moore (N.S.W.)
wore beige tailorings and nutmeg headgear; Mrs.
Davidson, in powder-blue, had roses a-bobbing under
the brim of her black hat.
Mr. J. G. Haywood, of Crawley, has announced
in's engagement to Ruby, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
A. T. .Tones.
The “Rays” are having a busy time with the
Cancer Appeal. Among this week’s efforts was a
dance at the Rex Carlton for the “Bankers’ Ray,”
Phyllis Kearns. Perth Hospital sec. V. C. 11.
Eagleton introduced Miss Kearns, whose white
chiffons showed a royal-blue patterning. Mrs. Eagle-
ton graced the function in black ninon moored to
a shell-pink yoke; Mrs. Fyfe was in sky-blue;
Helen Eagleton’s pinks flared from the basque of a
strawberry jacket. Marjorie Butler introduced
fashion’s whim for cotton without turning a hair—
her green and white checked gingham was backless
and its puffy sleeves were of crisp organdie.
Dora Cainm and Cinley Wilson took an afternoon
plunge into matrimony from the Methodist kirk in
Claremont. A cowl neck relieved the sheath-like
simplicity of the bridal satins and carnations
blushed pink in the foam of tulle veiling. May
Camm and Janet Lyon ’maided all in pink, their
droopy hats having a sideways lift with knots of
blue velvet ribbon.
Mabel Craven-Griffiths and Cecil Hallet Sweeting
were another couple who faced the altar side by
side. The bride’s elaborate toilette included pearl
ornamentations upon the velvet gown and rhinestone
broideries upon the train of Chantilly lace over
its apple-green lining. The veil was moored into
position with a chaplet of blossoms and silver lace.
The three ’maids wore apple-green satin, caped and
collared in military fashion and buttoned and braided
in silver.
Mount Yokine Golf Club made an extra special
effort for its annual ball. The clubhouse was a
golden glow of Iceland poppies and big log fires,
while without the fairways stretched in misty ribbons
under a sky full of stars. Among dancers who
twirled upon the canopied verandah were medico
and Mrs. McKenzie, she in moonlight-blues, and
Mr. W. G. Hall and his emerald-clad wife, who
enhanced her toilette with a necklet of sweet-peas
and daffodils. Aviatrix Mrs, Bonney wore a white
fur-trimmed coatee with her pillar-box satin.
Lorna Mary Broom and Richard Clark Fordham
are receiving felicitations upon their engagement.


w.
NOT
DAY
CPECIAL concessions . have brought Pacific
Island tours within reach of all,, so why'not
spend your next holiday amid ideal surroundings?;
Excursions to SUVA—HONOLULU—RAROTONGA—PAPEETE via N.Z.
For full particulars apply
UNION S. S. CO., Ltd.
247 George Street,
Sydney,
AND
INE
59 William Street,
Melbourne.
Dream Picture in Canada's
ii»i ii
amUk
.mil 1
:wk\
" ,l'/V‘- «/•
:n fur
mi
p r i
u
Enjoy the luxury of
Chateau Lake Louise, city-
like Hotel—every comfort
and famous C.P.R. cuisine.
Before leaving Australia
make all arrangements
for a stay at Lake Louise,
Write or call for details
and booklets.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Rockies on the way
to England
LAKE
LOUISE
A SCENIC setting
beyond description
rivalling even Banff in
its magnificence. Lovely
Lake of ever changing colour
reflections scented forests
Alpine flower gardens snow
peaks—rare crystal-clear air.
There are a score of pleasures
awaiting you at this beautiful
Canadian Pacific resort —riding
the circle trails climbing
tennis—motorings—swimming in
a warm sheltered pool—dancing
and other social attractions at
the Chateau.
To see the best of Canada’s Rockies
stop-over at Lake Louise only
reached via Canadian Pacific.
CANADIAN
P A Cl FI C
World’s
Greatest
T ravel
System
ƒ
Trains
Steamers
Hotels
The National Sporting
Weekly,
Che n.Z. Referee
is the official organ of most of
the principal sports bodies and
associations throughout New
Zealand, covering Racing, Trot-
ting, Cycling, Tennis, Cricket,
Wrestling, Boxing, Radio, Foot-
ball, Hunting, Whippets, Dogs,
Breeding, Golf, Athletics, etc.
Excellent advertising coverage is
offered in any section of the paper,
which is on sale all over New Zealand.
The most popular and authentic
Sporting paper in New Zealand.
Inquire for Rates from all leading
Advertising Agencies, or to—
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241,
Special Announcement
to National Advertisers
Che mercury
Tasmania’s National Daily ■Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the . formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
1 9 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ■ “Argus” Building,
Elisabeth Street.
All Quiet on the Barcoo.
BY P. A. DARBYSHIRE.
WHEN Jim Barber came back from the
Barcoo after having been there
nearly a year we expected to hear
wonderful, and probably exaggerated, yarns
of his experiences there.
Jim was bound to have had experiences,
lie is a tall, laconic, handsome young
beggar, sunburned to a deep bronze —the
irreverent call him “God’s gift to women” —
and for ever in some scrape or other.
Our one pub was crowded the Saturday
afternoon after Jim’s arrival, because his
mates knew he Avould be there and they
wanted to give him a welcome.
_ They found that he did not approve of the
Barcoo. He said it was a rotten place, a
—he searched for a sufficiently condemning
word —cow of a place.
"I got a job boundary-ridin’ on a station
called Eugoalong,” he drawled, “and what
a joint it was! It was the quietest place 1
ever worked on. I put in ten months there,
and it was just ten months wasted—gone
down the sink, as you might say. Why, it
was ten miles to the nearest railway station !”
“Did you ever go into the town?” he was
asked.
“Town !” Jim spat liis contempt. “Is that
what it was? A coupla shops, no pitchers—
uot even on a ' Saturdee night—never no
dances, nor races, nor nothin’, and one
rotten little . pub where' beer was, three bob
a bottle. I only went inta the town three
times, and two of them was when I had to.”
“Couldn’t y’ have no .good times there?”
Jim pierced the . questioner with a look
of contempt.
“Good times?. Now, what sorta good times
can y’ have in a lousy joint where beer’s
three bob a bottle? Don’t be so damn silly.
Beyond that he would say no more. He
said he had wastjed ten months in a place
where nothing, happened -or ever would, and
he wanted to forget all about it.
But he showed us a new trick, and it was
a good one. He put a pot of beer on the
bar counter and threw it—the beer—dowu
his throat before you could snatch your hat
off your head and slam it on the counter.
There was something miraculous about it.
It didn’t seem possible so much beer could
disappear in so short a time. He had to do
it a dozen times to convince doubters who
drifted in as we yarned and demanded
oracular proof of the phenomenon—always at
their expense, of course.
Probably it was the beer which eventu-
ally loosened his tongue so that lie told us
of some mild incidents in an otherwise boring-
ten months.
"Didn’t you get into some trouble with
the police?” asked Peter Keidy, who always
remembers things, particularly the kind other
people would rather forget.
‘ D’you mean about the Chow or about the
Jap?” asked Jim.
“About the Chow. I never heard noth-
ing about no Jap.”
Jim admitted he had some trouble about
a Chow. “Although, mind you,” lie said
earnestly, “it wasn’t my fault. He went
lookin’ for a row if ever a man did.”
“Why, what happened?” Everybody was
impatient to hear the yarn, for it was
obvious there was one. 1
“Well,” he explained, “one day the book-
keeper got crook. He’d been samplin’ some
rum lie d just got in, and found it pretty
plum," so he wasn’t feelin’ too good. He
asked me to look after the store on ration
day, and I did.
“Well, along comes Louey Fat, the Chow
gardener, and when he finds I’m there in-
stead of the bookie he starts to demand a
lotta things he wasn’t entitled to. That was
Louey all over; he was a greedy kind of a
cow.
“Of course, I sticks up on him, and lie
gets narked. He says a lotta things in Chow,
but I took that pretty calm, not knowin’
what it was -all • about, although it sounded
pretty t crook. - But when he calls me an
Australian bastard I reckon it’s about time
to sink the boot, so I lifts him one under
the ear..
“H’e went stone mad then, and hops
right into me. He wasn’t too bad with ’em
either, but I*cleaned him up properly after
a while. In fact, I overdone it a bit,
because they had to: lump him into the hos-
pital, and the doctor gives him twenty-four
hours to. .live —if he’s lucky. He’d fallen
and cracked liis head on somethin’ while we
was at it.
“I felt pretty sorry about things turnin’
out like that, because it’s pretty hard to
get a decent Chow gardener there, but
still what was done was done, and I couldn’t
see I was at all to blame. But, although
Louey pulls through somehow, the p’liee
comes out and arrests me on a charge of
attempted murder. What d’y’ know about
that?”
His audience had no hesitation in con-
demning the Queensland police for their
officious action. It was yet another example
of their interference with the rights of the
subject.
“Well, they committed me for trial,” con-
tinued the injured one, “and I don’t mind
sayin’ things looked a bit crook. By a bit
o’ good luck the criminal sessions starts the
next week, so it’s soon over. They took
Loucy’s evidence in hospital, and he didn’t
miss out anythin’ what happened, except
what he’d done himself. There’s a bloke on
the station I’d had a row with, and he goes
into the box and backs up Louey to the
dot. It didn’t do him much good, though,
because the other blokes on the station
speaks to him about it when he gets back,
and it was a week before he could crawl
around.
“Then they put some more of the . blokes
in the box, and although they couldn’t drag
much outa them, what they do say don’t
make things look much better. I didn’t say
anythin’ myself; I reckoned there’d been
too much said as it was. As a matter of
fact, I knew it wasn’t worth while, because
before the trial everybody knows what was
goin’ to happen.”
“Why, how long did y’ get, Jim?” asked
Peter, who was after the horrible details
as usual.
“Get?” asked Jim, looking surprised.
“Why, I got off, of course. You can’t con-
vict a bloke in the Barcoo for tryin’ to kill
a Chow; the place is a bit civilised, even if
beer is three bob a. bottle.”
The mere mention of the word was suffi-
cient. In the next ten minutes or so the
barrel was lowered considerably, and Jim
did his swallowing trick another half-dozen
times, partly for the benefit of one or two
who had missed seeing it before and partly
for practice. Whenever Jim looked as if
he could do with another the landlord would
shove him over a pot. A man with a gift
like .Tim’s is an attraction to any pub.
“What was it you said about the Jap?”
asked Peter. Peter is the original news-
liound.
“Oh, that was all about a girl.” Jim
dismissed it casually.
Nobody was surprised at there being a
girl in the case. Jim and girls seem to go
together, like bubble and squeak. (That’s
a pretty good simile, if you think it over.)
“Why, what did she have to do with it?”
Peter never let up. .
“Oh, we 11.... Well, y’ sec, after I’d been
there a few months a new maid comes to
the homestead, and she and me gets pretty
cobbery. Hoti, the Jap cook at the men’s
hut, gets pretty shook on her too, and tries
to make his alley good by givin’ her presents
of silk and stuff. Girl-like, she can’t refuse
’em, and H'oti seems to think that gives
him privileges, and she has t’ crown him with
a saucepan just to convince him he hadn’t.
“Early one mornin’ I hears a scream from
Clara —that’s the girl—and when I looks up
I finds Hoti standin’ over me bed with his
hand behind his back; he’s probably got a
knife or somethin’ in it.
“When I hops outa bed he goes for his
life, but I catches him and dongs him once
or twice just to show him what I think of
sticky,beaks. - -
“At breakfast next mornin’ lie’s got as
black an eye as you ever saw, but I don’t
say anythin’ about it because I reckons we
was square on the deal. But the other
blokes keep chiackin’-<him about it; they
know what happened, of course. • You could
see he’s gettin’ wilder,every.minute, and at
last he gives a yell arid runs inta Iris bunk-
house.
“When he. comes back with a gun the other
blokes duck"under" the table,' but ! runs for
me life. I knew I was the bloke he wants
to see. It’s a good, hundred yards, to me
lint, and I set out for it lickety-split.
“Well, here’s me leggin’ it across the pad-
dick, and there’s Hoti tearin’ after me.
Every time .lie stops to take a shot at. me
I zig-zags so as to spoil his aim. Arid, be-
lieve me, that sorta thing ain’t anythin’ like
as funny as it looks on the pitchers.
“I beats him to me. lint, but riot by much,
because that Jap is eert’nly steppin’ it out.
I ducks in, grabs the first gun I lays me
hand on and get’s goin’ again.”
“When I looks at what I’ve grabbed I
finds it’s a flamin’ shotgun! And so far as
I can remember it isn’t even loaded. And
he’s got a rifle that’ll carry half a mile!
After that I fairly flics, and I puts easy
a hundred yards between us.
“Next thing I know I’m trippin’ over a
gidya-root, and gnes rollin’ over and over
in the grass. Hoti has a shot at me as
I’m rollin’, and when I gets up I, see’s he’s
evidently emptied his magazine, because he’s
reloadin’.
“I runs towards him, takin’ aim and yell-
in’ to him to put ’em up, thin kin’ I. might
bluff him. But he finishes his'reloadin’, and
when I’m about forty yards from him he
starts to bring the gun up to his shoulder.
“I stops then,-takes'aim quick and pulls
both triggers nearly, sim’ltanenus.
“Well, that gun was' loaded all right, but
everythin’ turned out 0.K., . because the
Coroner brought in a verdict of, justifiable
liom’cide. .
“But the' girl left the next week to gqt
married ,to some bloke in Rockhampton, arid
the place was deader than ever, although
I suppose I’d still be there if it hadn’t been
for the duffers.”
At least half a dozen wanted to know
what duffers were, and Jim was astonished
at our ignorance.
“Why, cattle-duffers,” he said impatiently.
“You know—blokes who' pinch cattle. There’s
plenty of ’em around those parts. If Vo
blokes on Eugoalong had been workin’ for
a tight bloke like old Moss who owns the
place next door, we wouldn’t have cared
how many cattle they pinched: but Reilly,
our boss, is a real white man. and we. took
a sorta personal int’rest in his stock. So
every time we caught any duffers on the
place we’d boot ’em off it.
“Of course, that made ’em snaky. They
started shoqtin’ at us, and we started shoot-
in’ back at them, and although nobody got
hurt much we blokes got. pretty sick o’ bein'
potted at from behind logs and outa gullies
and so on.
“It wasn’t so bad on week days, because
we used to, go out bound’ry-ridin’ in pairs,
and a feller could have a bit of a yap some-
times, and there was plenty work to do. but
it was pretty rotten of a Sundee. There
was nothin’ to do all 1 day • but lie around
and smoke, and liic—sheuse- me!—read
books and papers we’d read twenty times be-
fore, and talk over things we’d already talked
to death, and hear blokes tellin’ • yarns; they’d
told a million times before. It’d drive a
man potty.
“The blasted place gets on me nerves
more than ever, so I turns it in a couple of
weeksh ago, and comes home. I’m glad to
be here. too. There’s always somethin’ doin’,
like a darnce or a race meetiu’ or pitchers
or somethin’—not like that rotten joint on
the Barcoo.”
“I’m damned if I know,” grumbled Peter,
“but I reckon you’ve bin pullin’ our legs
about it bein’ so quiet;”
“Why, how’s that?” Jim looked surprised.
“Well, first of all, you nearly kill a Chow,
then you do kill a Jap, and after that you
carry on a sorta war with a lot o’ cattle-
duffers. It sounds too damn lively for me.”
“I suppose it does seem a bit that way,”
agreed Jim, who is nothing if not reason-
able, “but you musht remember all them
things was spread over ten months, and
that’sh a good long while—it seemed like ten
yearsh.
“And, anyhow,” he went on. warming to
his. subject, “how th’ Hell could a place be
lively where there’sh never no sports, nor
pitchers nor nothin’, ’ud beer’sh liic—
sheuse me!—three sh'illin’s a borrel!”


■r-
FACTS
are PROOF
■
:
■ •
(5
: .. <■;
*•
fr
m
m :
■
S'iSilll
spmi
.
Walter Whitbourn :v d
Distributors of GAAMAM-AAlfiE Motor Cars
&AAAAM
PAl&fc
8-16 LEICESTER STREET
FACING VICTORIA MARKET
MELBOURNE. N. 3
TELEGRAMS & CABLES *■
WHITBOURN. MELBOURNE
ACME CODE
V/ALTER V/HITBOURN, WANAOtNa o\*ttrs9
PERCY R. ALLEN. •ECRETARV
BRUCE KAY. GENERAL BALEB MANAGE*
Messrs. Motorite Equipments Pty. Ltd.,
188 Peel Street,
NORTH MELBOURNE, 10th. August, 1932;,
Dear Sirß,
We have today inspected Graham Paige
car, Kegd. No. Engine No. .sold
"by us in 1929. The original blue lacquer finish
after three years exposure and 55 >5 00 mil ® s
driving is indistinguishable from new, and has
not been reducoed in any way.
We understand that the car has been
regularly SIMONIZED twice yearly, and must state
that we are astonished at its faultless condition,
which is due to the protection SIMONIZ affords.
Yours faithfully,
WALTER WHITBOURN PTY. LTD
Secre
4
SIMONIZING MADE THIS CAR NEW—IT WILL RESTORE YOUR CAR, TOO!
jkMi jr U A rri I C THU TA ¥ U 35,500 miles of exposure in all weathers failed to mar this
IVJ I JLi MLI I MtU* A fAs-iBI. I. Simonized car. If your car is now faded and dull-loolting,
do not despair. Just apply Kleener (in the green tin) as instructed, with a soft cloth, and the original color
and lustre is easily restored. To prevent this new beauty dulling again from exposure, apply Siinoniz, which
leaves a film to protect the finish from all conditions —rain, dust, mud, sunlight, traffic fumes, salt air, etc.
SHOWROOM BEAUTY AFTER THREE YEARS.
conception of the beautiful finish of this car. By carefully following instructions on each tin of Siinoniz and
Kleener anyone can easily obtain similar results on their own car. Kemember, Simonizing achieves two wonderful
functions. First, Simonizing will restore any dull, faded car to its original new color and lustre. Second, regular
Simonizing, say, every few months, will keep any car new for-years.
And you can’t easily astonish Messrs. Walter Whit-
bourn Pty., litd., one of the pioneer motor companies
in Australia. They have kept this car under observation for
three years and their letter of carefully considered comment is
an infallible guide for every motorist and garageman in the
Commonwealth. Good painters prefer Simonized cars because the
duco is preserved and benzol removes all Siinoniz ready for
spraying
AGENTS FOR CAR ASTONISHED.
BUY SIMONIZ AND KLEENER
TOGETHER TO-DAY.
At any good garage or hardware store—Single Small Tins are 2/i)
but von save by buying the pair for 5/-. Similarly, Earge Tins
are 5/6 each and 10/- the pair.
RESTORE
YOUR CAR
IN THIS
EASY,
PROVED
WAY.
All
fiiuWS
AM EL.
OWTCHIWI
xnHfcS
frit
in
sssssftjins
wm
uc©
Squews
siin
ouco
BEAUTVAND
Nqivrs
‘wo pßotsctia
wnishes* ct °
TO
■
r«eiK
rtO'.i
WAS* 1 *
Iqu
.e:na
Ers
DbCO
FREE
SAMPLES
FOR TRIAU ON YOUR CAR.
i -
SIMONIZ
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS:
PERTH.
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd.
HOBART.
C. C. Boag Pty.,
Ltd.
ADELAIDE.
Cornell, Ltd.
Harris, Scarfe, Ltd
J. N. Taylor, Ltd
MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Motor Accessory
Houses.
NEW ZEALAND.
H. O. Wiles, Ltd., Auckland.
SYDNEY.
Bennett & Wood, Ltd.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.
Hislop Lloyd, Ltd.
Westcott Hazell, Ltd.
BRISBANE.
Butler Bros, Ltd.
E.S.C.A., Ltd.
Martin Wilson, Ltd.
gf
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
fa&uLUtCn
Every week since ! 880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME '
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/*
Overseas—-12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
Yf
d
b
0-
»
✓
.»P'
»’ c s« e
6
P e V
•• ’ w V
, ss»
nA
#■
o''
•••■ s>®bC
d* X “*** <^
V? .<< V • fx"
t« vV^
uV\


anSOB
%
o better
Who KNOWS MOST
ABOUT TYRES?
The public that uses tyres, knows
them best. That public says,
in the way it buys tyres, that
Goodyear Standard Ali-Weather
Tyres are the greatest values on
the market. It buys more of
them than any other tyre.
This year users of Goodyear
Standard All-Weather Tyres are
getting better tyres than ever
before. Better in mileage, an
average of 30%. Better in non-
skid tread-wear, 35%. Altogether,
better in value —an unparalleled
advancement.
Better tyres yet you pay no
more. That’s why "In Australia,
as the world over, more people
ride on Goodyear Tyres than on
any other tyre.”
BIJILT WITH
ztaaassseatasasmscs^
CORD
Made of extra-elastic Supertwist Cord, with up
to 61% greater stretch and recoil than ordin-
ary cord, this powerful carcass assures superior
safety, vitality and extra long wear.
rimuJ
\
V
\
I
1
&
Jill
*rr:
V
1111~
*
¥
w
MADE IN AUSTRAL lift
ƒ
E U-13'32
