

u , \
WARDI^
pMED^Vj
U..L S
bf
mi
FINE
m
Mill'
•0
i'ipfiSS?|
j
PERTH. Scoria >l ° o ,i
CONTENTS ' " wT ?„>
w
SIZES
ot prices
ro suif
every pocket
VOUR need may
be great or
small, your pocket
well or thinly lined
—but, with these
four convenient
sizes of Dewars,
you can still enjoy
the best in whisky.
And....50....y0u....
5h0u1d....!
*4RD£l>^
MEDA C^
QAtS
!?%:$
Perth
7‘noto j
medals;
Ptfe
0^
IftP&Rj/U
CrWcST
cJoKi\T)ev
lie
0®
OlM»Hers PERTH >
NETCONTE
•onu&uacia m junr,^.
ueur
IA\P&RI/UJ
€rle)csr<s
m
zy
dohr\ Dew
DiH:llen WTO'S*
NET CONUN
sum.
as
yl<s LxuinmiYiiipputo to rm tty r '
iMPCRJ/l Li NSTITCIT &
Cr WgstGndClubs
dohf\Dewar&Sot\s L J .
OiU:l»trs MrTN.'ScortWKj.* LONDON
NET CONTENTS :UL OES
tai tu*t*vn>o» or *»■«** nr einroirt
DEWARS
Scotch Whisky
Bottled only in Bond under Government Supervision.
The Bulletin
/Ac Rig iZctAAJt Wage Stuff P 8
Vol. 53.—N0, 2738.
Wednesday, August 3, 1932,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


"J’HE 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
Writing
at HOME
rhis Book FREE to YOU!
■'— —■ ■■ SEND THIS COUPON —* ,
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street,, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 232
“ECONOMIC NEWS’’
An official publication full of new life,
by the new Queensland Bureau of
Economics.
Real news and new data for all States, witli
adequate comment on unemployment, wages, exchange
costs and benefits,, budgets, prices, sugar, etc., with
a conspectus of events since 1928.
185 pages—price Is. 6d.
Also “Credit,” by the Director
(J. B. Brigden), Price, Is. 6d.
On the creation of credit, Douglasism, and creative
budget policy, etc., authentic stuff for Australians
whose brains are free.
All Bookshops; all States; or from the
Bureau of Economics, Brisbane.
Common Sense Has Failed
TRY ECONOMIC SENSE
CSS?
7777
oai>,
m
People of every country
who realize the importance
of clear skin should use
Craticua*a Soap for the
daily toilet. It is pure and
contains the medicinal and
antiseptic properties of
Cnticura which soothe
and heal as well as cleanse
the skin.
Price 1/-. Sample free. Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854 .
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss.one of the most vital features
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 119,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Hates on application to the principal service
agents in ail States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Coiiins Street, Melbourne; Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
X y J&teA£i/iy 9
ls/(in£ Si&xtcj, s£2tJ?e
S’S&te&rt. 9urtc<i, s
&ie. vfrustv? 3*o
TheAUSTRALASIAN
PN SALE ALL STATES ©S
The National Sporting
Weekly,
Che n.Z. Referee
is the official organ of most of
the principal sports bodies and
associations throughout New
Zealand, covering Racing, Trot-
ting, Cycling, Tennis, Cricket,
Wrestling, Boxing, Radio, Foot-
ball, Hunting, Whippets, Dogs,
Breeding, Golf, Athletics, etc.
Excellent advertising coverage is
offered in any section of the paper,
which is on sale all over New Zealand.
The most popular and authentic
Sporting paper in New Zealand.
Inquire for Rates from all leading
Advertising Agencies, or to—
.4 ustralian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
'Phone: 85241.
Special Announcement
to National Advertisers
Clk mercury
Tasmania’s National Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
1 9 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W53 79.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
BUSINESS IS
BOOMING!
BE IN THE BOOM
Note the Perth
Progressive gross circulation figures
from February 7 to June 12, \932f
February 7 28,200
„ 21 30,600
March 6 31,400
„ 20 32,100
April 3 34,250
„ 17 35,590
May 1 37,400
„ 15 41,250
„ 29 42,400
June 12 47,000
The “Sunday Times” is the most
widely-discussed paper in the West.
As an advertising medium for results
it stands alone. Why not try it?
ẁ
“The Examiner”
Tasmania's Oldest Daily Newspaper. NOW IN ITS 91st YEAR
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Art and Morals
Modem novelists tend more and more to
ignore the Amelias of this world, and give
the Becky Sharps a sympathy which would
have scandalised the Victorians. In doing
so they often create affection for their
sinners, as Shakspeare does for Falstaff and
many more, and as Dostoieffsky does for
his degenerates. It is all a matter of the
treatment. Pietists are disgusted theoreti-
cally with people who get drunk, or yield
to homicidal jealousy, like Othello, or to a
wild passion, like Cleopatra, and don’t
want to> hear anything in their favor. The
artist may be passionately interested in
such beings, and for that reason, and be-
cause of his gifts, he may be able to
inspire understanding and affection, or at
least pity, for them even among their natu-
ral enemies. Conversely, he may take a
technically virtuous woman, who is also
poor, beautiful and hard-working, and make
her contemptible. Examples of both
achievements are given in the two fine
novels reviewed below. In one an adulteress
is lovable; in the other a penniless virgin
who resisted the advances of two rich men,
one of whom she cared for, and 1 who
eventually married a clergyman and made
him happy, is hateful. The adulteress is
essentially good, and the virgin is essen-
tially bad, but it takes insight into human
character and the power of expression to
make paradoxes of the sort ring true.
A*Trouble-bringer
The plot of The Fountain, by Charles
Morgan (Macmillan; 7s. 6d.; the Roycroft
Library) is almost banal in its ordinariness.
The English-bom wife of a German officer
is staying with relations in Holland during
the war, when an Englishman whom she
knew as a child arrives at a near-by intern-
ment camp. They begin a liaison which
continues till the husband arrives from the
front desperately wounded at a time when
the Germans are facing defeat. He is a
heroic figure, the complete patriot-aristocrat.
Presently he dies, and the lovers leave for
England to get married.
It is a sordid story told like that, but it
is an exquisite one as Mr. Morgan tells it.
He doesn’t allow his heroine any of the
conventional excuses. Lewis, to whom Julie
makes the first advances, is spiritually and
intellectually akin to Rupert von Narwitz
—a mystic and idealist. He had welcomed
the opportunities for a life of monkish
contemplation which the Dutch fort offered.
His mind returned to a time when, still a child,
he had felt that he was at the gate of a mystery
which, if he could but open his eyes anew, would
be revealed to him. To learn how to open his eyes
it had seemed necessary that he should be alone,
that he should be still with an absolute stillness,
until his self that was blind had fallen from him
like the skin of a snake.... As he grew older he
had perceived in certain books that their authors,
had been seeking what he sought, and scholarship had
become a passion in him, a means, not of learning
onl} - , but of association with minds colored as his
own. To their diverse voyages he would now return,
seeking always in. them that discipline of stillness
which, if. any man perfectly attained it, his blind
self might be shed like the skin of a snake, and he
be changed.
The doomed husband’s worshipping trust is
emphasised over and over'again.
“Vou are my last throw, my Julie, on the table
of this world.”
“Your last throw? Why do you say that?”
“But for you I should play no more.”
“You mean you would die? But why should
you”
“No, my dear, I’m not trying to frighten you
with the heroics of suicide,” he said, “though
suicide is a journey like another which reasonable
men are entitled to make. I mean only that to
all else but you I am already dead. Except in
you the world can give me nothing comparable with
what I have lost, and a world that has nothing
to give has nothing to take away.”
Her bluff old Dutch stepfather, who adores
her too, is equally inspiring in his way.
His family is as ancient and renowned as
that of Von Narwitz, and it has similar
standards of conduct. When his womenfolk
hound her down, and she confesses, he is
heart-broken.
“But .Julie,” he said, “I’m not a preacher—God
knows. But here you were, sent here by your hus-
band, under my roof, under my protection. And
he was at the wars—not his own fault he left you.
I was pledged for you. You were doubly pledged.
You were my daughter—I’ve always seen you ‘so.
And, my God, more than ever I see you so now.
I told them that when they were blackguarding you.
Am 1 to go back and say”
“You must.”
“And afterwards —how am I ever to stand in with
you again?” He looked at her as if she were
vanishing.
She betrays all those who love her—there
is even a hint that she is going to let’
Lewis down, that after the splendors of
Holland and Germany she won’t be able
to stand middle-class England—but she has
ways, instincts, a
glamorous Mere-
dithian charm,
which make the
reader see why she
was loved, and it
is also clear that,
being what she was, she couldn’t have
acted other than as she did.
Virtue for Profit
There is only one stage of Joseph Shear-
ing’s Forget-me-not (Heinemann; 7s. 6d.)
in which the reader feels sympathy with his
heroine. That is when she is an outcast,
and regarded as an accomplice in a murder
with which she had- no direct connection.
It is the only stage in which she loses her
chill equanimity for a time. The period is
shortly before the French Revolution of
the middle of last century, and most of
the action takes place in Paris. Lucille
Debelleyhie is impregnably chaste. She
found it easy enough to keep her first lover
at arm s length, though he was next-of-kin
to an English Duke and she was an ill-
paid teacher at a Bath school; she hated
him. It is harder in the case of the
Due du Boccage. The Duchess soon regrets
haying engaged her as governess for the
children. The huge establishment in the
Faubourg St. Honore is in a state of chaos.
Mademoiselle Debelleyme, a born organiser,
restores order. The children become more
attached to her than to their opium-dazed,
jealousy-crazed mother. The Duke turns
to her for sympathy. Next he falls in love
with her, and in her guarded, watchful way
she reoiprocates. She has her temptations.
For a moment her desperately aroused emotion
overwhelmed her intellect, she could think of nothing
except that she was in his embrace—but for a
moment only.
Then she tears herself free. Her price is
marriage, and she will consider nothing less.
The stage is set for the tragedy which
follows. The Duke murders his wife, and
poisons himself. The governess faces her
accusers, who have her letters and other
incriminating evidence, but she has com-
mitted no legal crime, and, hating and
despising her, they have to set her free.
One of them pronounces her epitaph with a
smile: “A clever little bourgeoise—but not
quite clever enough.”
In America, years afterwards, she and her
husband, the Rev. Nathaniel Meadows,
have just had a visit from their friend Mrs.
Harriet Beecher Stowe.
“Have you corrected those proofs, my dear?” he
asked.
“I will do it when the company have gone. Don’t
you think Mrs. Stowe’s article rather coarse? It
might offend many, good Christians.”
And on that cynical note this brilliant
study of a woman who hadn’t a single
virtue except virtue ends.
RED PAGE.
The Anzac Memorial
“So many gods, so many creeds”....
Here a representative artist to whom it
seems that “a sculptor should be free tc
express his ideas,” to whom it seems “very
wrong to dictate or attempt to dictate the
form that symbolism should take, more
especially by people who are not trained
in the art.” Here a Brigadier-General who
says, “If we are going to have a memorial
it should be one that will appeal to all
sections of the community.” Here a
Protestant minister saying, “Instinctively
people of fine moral views turn from what
they think is offensive to their Christian
ideals, and to have the figure of a nude
woman on the cross with dead Anzacs at
the base as representing crucified humanity
in incongruous—one may say sacrilegious.”
Here another Protestant minister who
says, “Regarded in the light of a work of
art, and used symbolically, I do not see
any objection to the memorial.” Here a
Roman Catholic Coadjutor-Archbishop char
aeterising it “as suggesting a travesty
ol the Redemption and as gravely offensive
to ordinary Christian decency.”
And here away in the background, seek-
ing or obtaining no publicity whatever in
the discussion, a mother whose sons lie
buried in Flanders, France and Gallipoli.
And here, too, hiding their shame in the
shadows, a father and mother, a brother
and sister, whose son and brother marched
away with the morning dew of youthful
freshness in his eyes, and returned, diseased
in body, corrupted in mind. Here masons
and laborers, caring little for argument or
opinion, thankful only that at last they
have got a job.
What was, ’br is, the object of the vast
memorial which is to be erected in Hyde
Park, Sydney? If, as lam inclined' to
believe, the opinion of the majority of
artists is that it should be purely a work of
art, and be damned to anyone who takes
exception to it, then, so far at least as the
(Red Page continued on page h.)


“THE SENIOR STORE”
“TRUTH IN AD VER TISING”—Plain Facts, Open Dealing.
Anthony Horderns
HALF YEARLY
GENUINE
w
HOUSEWIVES!
Save Pounds on a REAL TIME-SAVER
&
o
o
u
U)
mm
&
<%?
\LJ/Uauj. ms u-Uii-i tiil
LKJ/
m
// i
*> e
376
Cooks
A COMPLETE DINNER
on
ONE GAS JET
The Sydney Waterless Cooker will cook a com-
plete dinner on one gas jet. All classes of cooking
may be done, and any type of fire may be used.
Buy now at a drastic reduction, and also obtain
without charge, a set of dainty Floral Canisters.
No. 1. Price, 78/6. Sale Price 37/6
No. 2. Price, 98/6. Sale Price 47/6
Demonstrations held daily.
{Dept.—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.)
m;
s'
Is
'&r
m
t540/-
6
£5/10/- Dinner Set at £5
“The Gerard” 33-piece Dinner Sets. Best quality
china. Featuring Tourquoise-blue edge and Fruit;
also Floral decorations. Price £5/10/-
Sale Price £5
£4 Dinner Set at £3/10/-
“Academy” Dinner Sets. 33 piecesi of quality china.
Ivory body, Scroll edging. Price, set, £4
Sale Price, set £3/10/-
m
ss&
if
\S
%
m
m.
84/- English China Tea Set 5716
English China Tea Set. 21 pieces. Decorated with
Na:tive-flower design. Complete with this set we give
a beautiful Irish-linen Supper -Cloth and 4 Serviettes
to match. Price, 84/-. Sale Price 57/6
( China —Third Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs .)
SPORTSMEN!
Save on a reliable CUN
80/- Top Lever D.8.8.L. Gun
Belgian 12G. D.8.8.L. Top-lever Gun.
Single bolt, back action, rebounding
locks, good steel barrels, matted rib,
walnut stock, checkered, patent fore-
67/6
end, case-hardened. Price, each 807-
Sale Price 67/6
£5/5/- Folding D.B. Gun now
Belgian .4 1 0 Bore Folding Double-barrel
Collector Gun. Side-lever hammers
below line of sight. Nicely engraved
and finished. Price, each £5/5/-
90/-
Sale Price .. .
( Guns—Ground
Floor, George Street. Free-
City arid Suburbs.)
. . 90
Deliver
Cut Price Levels Increase the Demand for these Necessities
■ * t I I—.—I— ) ,1
£5/1/6 Combination Sinks
Combination Sinks. Con-
structed of cast iron, lead-
less porcelain enamel finish.
Size overall, 48J x 1 in.
ŵ
Sink size is 18 x 1 lin., and can be supplied
in three styles—with sink’ in centre, or either
left- or right-handed. A quality. Price, £5/1/6.
Sale £4/15/-. Cast brackets for fixing, 5/- pair
extra. Packing for rail or boat, 2/6 extra.
FIRESIDE REQUISITES
priced for Value. Buy!
ẁ
Fireside Kerbs 31/6
Fireside kerbs. 48in. by 12in. in-
side. In Oxidised Copper, Polished,
or Antique Brass finish. Price, 357-
Sale Price, each 31/6
Packing for rail or boat 1/6 extra.
'IP
37/6
F i r e s i de
Companion
.Sets. Strong
and serviceable in
finish—to match fire-
side kerbs. Four
tools. Price . . 45/-
Sale Price, set, 37/6
(Baths, Stoves, etc.—Second Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs ,)
QUIGKSELLERS
Buy NOW to SAVE!
ẃ
52-fc
496
52/6 “Acme” Wringer
Acme Wringer. Fitted
with patent reversible
water drain, special
mangling attachment
49/6
which doubles the usefulness of the
wringer. Size, 14in. Price . . 52/6
Sale Price 49/6
-Awmmt-
-12/6 Household Scales
/
Tousehold Scales and Weights.
>blong tin scoop. Black
namel finish. To weigh loz.
r o 4ib. Price 12/6
ale Price 10/6
1016
?]jILP
£lO/10/- Oil Stoves
Cook on an Oil Stove
for efficiency and clean-
liness. Perfect cook-
£lO
ing is always assured.
No. 3 •Burner. Price . . £lO/10/-
Sale £lO
No. 2 Burner. Price £9
Sale £B/10/-
(Household Ironmongery —Ground Floor, Pitt
Street, Free Delivery City and Suburbs.')
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Ro. 2712 C. G.P.O


Ihe Mad Te<j Partii
with due acknowledgment to “Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland” m
H
AVE some more sugar in your tea?
said the March Hare earnestly to Alice.
“Thank you,” replied Alice, “but I’ve got
all I want.’’
“There’s plenty left over in the basin,’’
remarked the March Hare.
“Then throw it away,’’ said the Mad
Hatter suddenly. “All surplus production is
uneconomic and should be immediately
abolished.’’ And he tried to look very wise
as he said this.
“Would you tell me, please, just what that
means?’’ inquired Alice politely.
“It means,’’ said the Hatter, “that because
the basin isn’t empty after you’ve had all you
want, you might have had 4j lumps of sugar
instead of 4 which you have just had.’’
“And the worst of it is,’’ observed the
March Hare sadly, “that the people who take any sugar out of the basin now that we’re finished
our tea will be able to take 2 lumps, or more, for every lump we took.’’
“And then there’s the Queen of Hearts,’’ said the Hatter. “She’s a great housewife, you
know, and she says she won’t make any more tarts until she can get sugar for 4d. a pound.’’
“The real trouble, you see,’’ interrupted the March Hare, “is over a ha’penny.’’
“And the Queen says,’’ continued the Hatter, “there will be no domestic peace until some-
thing is done about it, so she has called her minions together and there is a conference about it.”
“And what will be the economic consequences of this peace conference, if the Queen gets all
she wants?’’ inquired Alice innocently. (She had seen these words in a newspaper somewhere
and they looked rather learned, like the picture of Mr. J. M. Keynes just above them.)
“Little girls shouldn’t use long words like that,’’ said the Hatter severely. “Grown-up people
don’t bother about consequences. They want to see something done.’’
“Such as throwing the rest of the sugar away when they’ve had enough for themselves,’’
suggested the March Hare.
“I don’t see much good in doing that,’’ said Alice; “not after somebody has taken all the trouble
to fill the basin. Dear me! The whole thing is very puzzling, and I wish somebody would explain
it all to me.’’
HERE IS THE EXPLANATION THAT ALICE WANTED
For the last seven years Australia has been producing well over 500,000 tons of sugar per annum, about 300,000 tons of which
are required for her own use. The balance is exported and sold at world’s price. This has been rendered possible, partly owing
to the fact that the Australian consumer, in effect, finds about per pound, and the British preferential tariff gives the equivalent
of another id. The industry also is extremely efficient, and the larger output makes for an all-round lower cost of production.
No particular objection was taken to this scheme of things until quite recently. Now some people are calling it an economic
paradox. It is. But the whole world just now is an economic paradox. Every sugar-producing country is subsidising its sugar
industry in one way or another. In colored-labor countries like Cuba, instead of a subsidy they are cutting out wages and providing
only food to the employees.
It is not suggested that the Australian scheme is an ideal one, but there it is, and the industry is established on the basis of large-
scale production. This seems a most inopportune time to undermine any established business.
The export trade could be wiped out and sugar supplied at 4d. per pound. As the Hatter puts it, you could then buy lumps
for the price of 4.
But what would be the economic consequences?
One-third of the people directly engaged in sugar production would be thrown out of employment. The economists reckon that
every person employed in production of any sort involves the employment of two more persons in other industries.
There are 30,000 men directly engaged in the sugar industry, so if 10,000 of these are deprived of their livelihood, it means that
there will be another 30,000 men added to Australia’s vast army of unemployed.
Official figures show that the cost to Australia in unemployment relief taxation alone is now £26 per annum for each unem-
ployed man. The actual cost of sustenance, including the wives and children involved, cannot be less than £5O per man.
30,000 more unemployed, therefore, means an additional burden on the community of £1,500,000.
According to official estimates a reduction in the price of sugar by Jd. per pound would save consumers about £1,200,000 per
annum. This works out at a saving of 3/11 per head per annum of the population.
Interstate statistics show that in 1931 Queensland exported to the other States goods to the value of £9,314,658, of which two-
thirds of the total value was represented by raw sugar. They imported from them commodities of Australian production to the
value of £1 1,332,61 7.
The chief agent in providing this market for the various industries of the other States is the Queensland Sugar Industry. Upon
its stability depends the continuance of this market.
Is it good business then—under present conditions—to scrap our export trade?
Alice was wiser than she knew when she asked the question—
“WHAT WILL BE THE ECONOMIC CONSEQUENCES?”
inserted bu the,
Su£ar Growers of Australia
Joir the, 9'nfovmatiort of the People
Write to the Australian Sugar Producers’ Association, Ltd., P.O. Box 608 J, Brisbane, or The Queensland
Cane Growers’ Council, P.O. Box 1032 N, Brisbane, for a copy of an interesting and informative book
entitled, “The Australian Sugar Industry.”
R.S.M.
J:
ft
€
Mfe-
OGA
Si
Ml


s
V
V -
s*
m
:■ y:
Easier, quicker, quieter. . . .the new British-
built Imperial gives the maximum output
with minimum effort. Good, clean accurate
work is only one feature of this magnificent
machine. It is sold at a fixed price,
£39/10/- for the office model, £l9/19/- for
the portable. Guaranteed against faulty
materials and workmanship for three years,
and serviced free for the first twelve months.
Full information for the asking. Write for it.
GOOD
REASONS
Interchangeable
type and key-
board.
six extra char-
acters.
Interchangeable
Carnage.
CWar-cut Type.
Motion. KSCai,e,rient
Special “Pin-Point”
Unit.
Special Locking
Device.
PRICE,
£39/10/-
The British
o
Ck
o
0
d
The following Type-
writers have been re-
placed by new Imperial
machines, and are
offered for sale, recon-
ditioned and guaranteed,
at attractive prices.
Late Model Remington, Under-
wood, Royal, L. C. Smith,
£l5 rebuilt; £l2 10s. over-
hauled. Earlier Models, £10;
other makes, £S. If the
nature of your work does not
warrant the expenditure on a
new Imperial, these machines
will be found to be thoroughly
serviceable. They are sold on
a definite money-back guaran-
tee if they are not satisfactory
in every way.
TYPEWRITERS.
Imperial Typewriter
Sales Company,
5S Young St., Sydney.
Geo. Raitt Pty., Ltd.,
40 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
Burridge & Warren,
Ltd.,
69 King Street, Perth.
Office Supplies Co.,
105 Macquarie Street,
Hobart.
L. Dobell & Go., Ltd.,
43 Creek Street,
Brisbane.
Office iiquippers, Ltd.,
Gawler Place,
Adelaide. 4
The
Agents,
Imperial Type-
writers.—l would
appreciate further
information regarding
the new model Imperial
British Typewriter. Thank you !
NAME
ADDRESS
Fill in, and post to your nearest Agent.
qualification is concerned, I am inclined to
say “Be damned to the majority of
artists!”
As an artist myself, knowing Mr. Rayner
Hoff’s capabilities, and judging from the
photographs of the “Crucifixion of Civilisa-
tion” group which have appeared in the
press, I should say that there will be no
question as to the artistic merit of the
work; and I also believe that to a great
number of people it will convey all that
it should convey as portion of a great War
Memorial. On the other hand, to a great
number of people it will convey anything
but that.
It seems to me that we artists are apt
to be the most narrow-minded of in-
dividuals. We talk largely, and largely
unintelligibly to the ordinary-minded
person, about the broad outlook, vision and
the rest of it; but what of our own outlook,
our own vision? Are we prepared to admit
there are merits in any beliefs and ideals
other than our own?
Walking the other day across Martin-
place I happened to pause and look at the
Cenotaph. A woman was standing on the
step immediately in front of the Digger at
the south end. Her back was turned to me.
I gathered she had just deposited a wreath
at the feet of the impassive figure. Her
hand stole up to its knee—she could reach
no higher—and there for a little while she
patted the metal leg of symbolism. I
could not see her face. I did not want
to. I felt just then that there were some
things best left to the imagination.
Sentiment, of course. The cheap senti-
ment of the crowd. And what has art, Art
with a capital A, to do with the sentiment
of the crowd? Art is above, beyond, all that
sort of thing. That, at least, would appear
to be the gospel of the majority of artists.
What is the object of the war memorial? .
A great and glorious advertisement for art?
Or is it just a matter of sentiment, the
sentiment of the common herd, who got
into khaki, took their rifles and gave their
lives; or perforce remained at home
anxiously scanning the casualty lists?
It seems to me that art must be very
deficient, very unworthy of the capital A,
if it cannot, when setting out to design
and erect a great war memorial, put into
practice its own precept of concealing itself.
Surely if artists had the really broad con-
ception and vision they would understand
and be prepared to take into account the
feelings and points of view of other people,
at least on such an occasion. I prefer to
believe that artists fail to understand those
feelings rather than that they set them-
selves deliberately to outrage them. Why
not a little n\orc of the broad vision they
themselves advocate?
C. H. ERCEVAL.
Crowd Psychology
What Alan D. Mickle has to say about
crowd psychology in his criticism of my
criticism of Shaw’s “Saint Joan” (R.P..
13/7/’32) is true enough. Of course you
have to appeal to people through their
emotions if the reasoning apparatus isn’t
there. But the emotional appeal must have
some reason behind it. Christ’s teaching
caused a revolt of the slaves against their
Roman masters because there was already
a desire for revolt in the unconscious mind
of the slaves. Christ taught love of your
neighbor. The crowd changed it to hatred
of Rome. A crowd is not always ready for
a message. Annie Besant tried to make
Krishnamurti into a new Messiah, offering
a Heaven not of this world. She was a
century or so out of date, and now I under-
stand her Messiah is engaged in business
in Hollywood. Lenin was a Messiah with
reason to back up his emotional appeal.
He offered a Heaven of this world, and he
has turned half the prospective Paradise
upside down. Mr. Mickle cites ex-Premier
Lang as a living contradiction to Shaw’s
notions about Joan. It may be that Mr.
Mickle is too close to that gentleman, and
too emotionally involved himself, to be.
able to decide whether Lang is a St. Joan
of economics or not. Mr. Mickle’s ideas on
economics in another 20 years may be
much nearer Lang’s than Lyons’s than he
at present thinks possible.
Mr, Mickle doesn’t seem to have read his
“St. Joan” very carefully. Shaw doesn’t
suggest in it that a crowd can be swayed
by appeals to its commonsense. Joan’s
stimulus to the emotions of the crowd
started France on the road to absolute
monarchy and nationalism. Her appeals to
its commonsense caused her to be burned
alive.
SUNDRY SHOWMAN.
A Professor Explains
A Bulletin contributor has referred to
certain opinions I am supposed to have ex-
pressed on the subject of sex in films. May
I state what exactly occurred? I was
interviewed by a representative of a Mel-
bourne paper, and in the course of my
few and guarded remarks I mentioned that
whilst sex pathology was a rather common
topic in the fiction of the day, so far it
had not entered the films. This simple
statement of fact was twisted, without any
excuse whatsoever, into the announcement
that I deplored the prevalence of sex-
pathology in films I Immediately on read-
ing this, I protested vigorously to the
editor, who expressed regret and deleted the
remarks from subsequent issues of the paper
that evening. But the damage, such as
it was, had been done. For example, the
local correspondent of the “Times” thought
fit to cable this travesty of my statement
to London, and so it appeared widely in
the English press.
I admit holding the opinion' that sex
pathology is best treated in medical litera-
ture, but as it offers the easiest method
of securing good sales modem writers find
the subject attractive.
W. A. OSBORNE.
A Satchel of Books
Why that admirable translator Winifred
Ray should have bothered with The Theatre
Crime (Geoffrey Bles; 7s. fid.) is a mystery
which is quite as darksome as anything in
the novel itself. This German murder yarn is
in no sense better than scores that are being
turned out every year by British and Ameri-
can writers, and in some ways it is definitely
feebler. For example, the author evades his
difficulties at the finish by making his male-
factor a lunatic. The events occur shortly
after the war in an unnamed town in
Southern Germany.
Little did .Air. Barron think when he
arrived from Nevada at, Short Creek for a
respite from deeds of violence that he would
witness a murder before be had so much as
unpacked his grip. True the retreat which
lie had clioson for bis rest-cure was no
Arcady.
The sheriff was playing shut-,eye, and moonshine
made in the mountains was flowing freely. Now
and then a car flashed by the hotel. Exhilarated
men yelled and whooped.
How Mr. Barron (“Tom” to his friends, who?
were legion) got the assassin without the
help of the sheriff, who was too old a hand
to confuse another man’s gunplay, is vividly
narrated in Black Blood (Collins; 7s. fid.).
It is Charles W. Sanders at his laconic best.
Jungle Maid , by Dale Collins (Harrap;
Robertson and Mullens; 7s. fid. net). Stack
the fire well, place your elbows on the arm-
chair cushions and your feet on the mantel-
piece, and, having lifted the receiver off the
telephone and chloroformed the children, be
a beautiful white girl pretending she is
living among New Guinea cannibals. Find
a millionaire creeping among the rushes.
Talk to him in the language of the Bible,
and watch the reaction. Go to America in
a yacht, get a divorce and meet a Russian
count. And so on to England, and listen
to the sound of a gun exploding in your
room. Find Real Love. You’ll be lucky
if you catch your usual train next morning.
Mr. Collins’s pockets should burst when he
is paid for the movie rights of his latest
work.
Spinoza, the Maker of Lenses, a play in
three acts, by J. Alexander Gunn, Professor
in the University of Melbourne (Allen and
Unwin; 3s. fid.), is a convincing demonstra-
tion of the truth of the adage that Life is
short but Art is long. Dr. Gunn is known
as a brilliant lecturer, an engaging conver-
sationalist and the author of two admirable
prose works on the hero of his drama. But
his play is far from easy reading, and a
dramatic critic would shudder at the thought
of having to sit through a performance of
it, even by the most perfect cast of actors
in the world. A specimen of the dialogue:—
Luxembourg: “You do not believe, then, in the
old prophecies, Mr. Spinoza?”
Spixoza: “Prophecy is merely imagination and is
truthful when by clearness of perception and an
insight into the heart of things it divines the
tendency of events or perceives the principles of
right or profitable acts.”
Drama is merely life in dramatic form, and
life is conveyed in • drama by first impres-
sions. Dr. Gunn’s Spinoza is not an impres-
sion of a human being but a synthetic pro-
duct of the professor’s studies in philosophy.
All that it contains of the real Spinoza,
whatever he was like, could be equally well
obtained from an encyclopaedia.
D. H. Lawrence died before he was able
to revise Apocolypsc (Seeker; Robertson
and Mullens; 17s. fid.). It is ostensibly a
new reading of the Book of Revelation, but
actually it is a recapitulation of his life-
long struggle to reconcile his instinctive
desire to remain an individual with his
equally instinctive desire to merge his indi-
viduality in some greater whole. Ordinary
men succeed in doing this spasmodically by
becoming community singers or joining an
Orange lodge or Rotary. But Lawrence was
not an ordinary man. He was an intellec-
tual with an almost pathological horror of
the intellect. “What we want,” he says,
“is to destroy our false, inorganic connec-
tions, especially those related to money, and
re-establish the living organic connections
with the cosmos, the sun and earth, with
mankind and nation and family.” _ He does
not tell us how to do it. An artist might
have told him that since intellect has led
us away from our intuitive life, only intel- -
lect can lead us back again. The abo. is
not on the intuitive level, as witness his
taboos and conventions, which are as numer-
ous and irksome as those of civilised man,
and he is less able to get back to it than a
Rembrandt or a Shakspeare—or even a D.
H. Lawrence. The book, which is written _
in Lawrence’s strange, surging style, has a
long and superfluous introduction by Richard
Aldington.
And a Little Verse
POET TO HIS LADY.
Fain of strange bread and of bright bitter
wine,
I have gone seeking shadows, late and
long;
My bed the hill-gorse, where elf candles
shine
Down the dim, green, dream-lichened ways
of song..
Sweetest, who are my dream, who knows
how long?
Bacchante of Illusion’s acrid wine,
I am drawn down from those green hills of
song
To eyes where all love’s Spanish castles
shine.
Yet, sweet, take heed, who drinks of goblin
wine,
His soul is but the burden of a song.
His heart is fitful, .Jack o’ Lanthorn shine.
Having kept tryst with these so long, so
long!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted:
arid no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. " ”
Constant,Mf!: Much obliged. He had
already been found out and turned off... .T.W.A.:
An unconvincing narrative... .R.R.D.: That ground*
has been gone over too often. ... A.J.A.: Now, do
you know what all those words mean? Yet do you
-think you are much duller than most of the people
' who profess to see something profound in it all ?
. ...E.M.F.: Sorry, the record has since been
destroyed. But it purported to cotne from one of
the family'. .. .W r .L.M. (Vancouver) : Sorry, but jingle
is not en0ugh....A.F.D.8.: Off our beat... .H.G.C.:
But the Loan Council isn’t a Federal institution.
In fact, the committee of the Council which was
appointed “to survey' the future position with
respect to Government budgets and to report what
further action must be taken” (25/4/’3l) didn’t
have a single Commonwealth representative on it.
. ...F.J.8.; Quite well done; but somehow we get
no emotion out of them. .. . 8.E.: Never thought of
it in this way before :
How beautiful the world would be
If all our pain and sin
Were heaped up in a great pile, and
Tipped in the rubbish tin.
... . Aga B.: Not a color in the dish.... Alex. L:
Rather too naive... .M.D.G.: “The water runs beneath
the bridge, Youth’s precious moments hasten by”—
spotted at once; another of those Bridge tragedies.
.. . .R.K.: Practise for a year or so; then shoot
again. .. .Madeline II.: Promise in it. But the sub-
ject is threadbare. R.N.8.: A wreath of immor-
telles crowns it. It was the least we could do for
so old a friend... .Hiki: All as clear as a brick-
yard puddle. .. .M.E.F.: Well enough done ; but would
have a narrow appeal... .Olive B.: Ambles pleasantly
along saying nothing.... Lloyd W.: Too adjectivor-
ous. And the jingly measure doesn’t suit the
matter. .. .C.M.K.; A couple go throng}). Show
decided emotional capacity, with a singing quality.
....Brady’s L.: Must have two verses of this any-
way :
If you are from Australia
And on a foreign strand,
Compelled to make a living
Far from your native la ad, >
The one thing y'ou’ll remember,
Though many be forgot,
Is good old Eucalyptus,
The daddy of the lot.
. ...D.F.J.: We’ve given it columns already, but
will return to it shortly. .. .Chum C.: Another bard
got. in ahead of you J.F.: Dispiriting jingle ir,
exasperatingly bad handwriting. ...K.T.: Good ring-
ing ballad stuff, but it needs an explanatory note
or two on the subject of “Old Rogerum”. ~. J.E.S.:
No g0....5p0t: Some sound truths, but no pleasant
tinkle in the verse... .J.C.: Not an earthly; keep
them for home consumption... .T.F.M.: You attempt
to rhyme “precepts” with “eclipsed,” “sovereign” with
“solven,” this after expressing the defiant opinion
that your poetical products are “volumes ahead of
your contemporaries.” In this respect perhaps they
are... . J.K.A.: Humor in it; but it’s 1500 words
too long for our present cramped space. .. .Gilbert
M.: There isn’t a surprise from Genesis to the end.
... .Country Ped: Are the compilers of school readers
to be above criticism because they have “devoted
whole lifetimes to the study of child psychology
and the idiosyncrasies of boys and girls”?....
E.M.0.E.: Your hand is an absolute Yarborough....
H.F.8.: Consider yourself in receipt of a wooden
5p00n.... Arachne: Long and labored and limps
lamentably... .P.0.M.: But hasn’t Kipling forestalled
you? H.A.B.: —
I weave romantic fancies as I dream away the night;
My heart is filled with wonder and my vagrant
thoughts run riot.
Seems a bad case; a rhyming dictionary might help.
E.N.: There are some fair lines, but it’s a long
way after Lawson... .E.G.: Not sufficient beauty to
carry it....J.H.: Fairly well done, but strikes an
oft-repeated note.... E.W.P.: Perhaps the girl was
too afraid of your barcarolle to go boating with you.
. ...D.M.IC.: No room here for the tipsters....
M.F.E. ; Milk and water... .L. 8.; Commonplace
story of revenge with a weak finish... .C. 11.5.: What
an optimist you are!... .Ti.M.11.: Not clearly told.
. ...G.L.: It would need a “Kodak” to extract a
laugh from that incident. .. .E.P.M.: Plot hardly
worth the trouble.. . .R.G.H.: Too “artv”... .F.C.H.:
No odd corner for it....P.N.: There’s a. good story
in it, but treatment fails... .C.W.A.P.: Have another
go at it... .11.A.L.: N 0... .W.G.: You haven’t the
faintest notion of how a yarn should be written.
... .N.W.: Incredible melodrama ... .S.H.: You strive
hard to make the message in the bottle exciting, but
it isn’t.... E.D.P.: Found him an uninteresting tom-
cat. .. .J.G.M.: Crudely done and any 10-vear-old
could guess the finish.... D. 8.; Poor.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A. 8.11.: It hasn’t a redeeming feature. .. .T.0.H.:
Good idea of composition ruined by lamentable
execution... .W.C.: Didn’t take to the c010ne1....
T.A. (Ken.): All out of proportion. .. .J. 5.8.: You’re
approaching the right track. .. .WAV.P.: Newehums
have been making that mistake for half a century.
. ...E.M.A.: Wouldn’t care to go hiking with your
flappers... .A.W.: No berth here for your Jack Tar.


w
ŵ
,
■
:
I
m
; '
■
./ • ■ sag. *
a
m
>» wi:
mw
: :
«iiia
aiiKipw
A
mm
Z7w7
w
¥s i
I :
I :
|lll§§ : C;
>ilS§Bi£' : . ■. ; ■ 1
■r
■■ iiiifiS
v ;
■
9
■ % <;:
■
mr:
a
mm
M
.
§ if
y *
* Jsui
.-r
ill
a' ■■ -
Jsk‘A * 4,
I ■
m
1 m i
*
; . ,r>
1111
ẁ


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 2738.
August 3, 1932.
THE OLD NOSTRUM.
“Germany is very sick. Civil war is a possibility, and the return of the Hohenzollerns is everywhere discussed.”
DR. CROWN PRINCE: “Maybe you better try again der Kaiser mixture, hein?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; >Phone 87971.
Victoria : IH-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, H Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly; 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12c, 6d.;
t months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
< months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 60s.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America; Id. for hos. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
THE BASIC-WAGE BLUFF.
The absurd business of determining a basic
wage on the cost of living is in progress
again in N. S. Wales, because it is neces-
sary to find out not only what it costs
Jones to live as a citizen of the Common-
wealth but also what it costs the same
Jones to live as a citizen of a State within
the Commonwealth. If a man, having de-
termined at great expense what it costs to
keep a dog to bark at the front door,
proceeded to spend much money to ascer-
tain what it costs to keep the same dog to
bark at the back door, we should regard him
as a fool. But if we. then found that it
was other people’s money he was spending
on this double investigation, we might
change our opinion and decide that he was
a rogue.
The double inquiry into this so-called cost
of living is, however, only a little worse
than a single inquiry. Both are ridiculous.
In N. S. Wales three learned gentlemen, all
lawyers, assisted (or otherwise) by a flock
of legal and other representatives of unions
of employers and employees, will Spend
many weeks finding out how long a man’s
underclothes should last, whether a wireless
set is a necessary of life, and how many silk
stockings it is a fair thing for a laborer’s
wife to wear out in a year. How can these
or any other three gentlemen determine how
many neckties a man ought to have in a
year or whether he ought to have a. wireless
set? For if a wireless set, why not a motor-
car? When the salary of the president of
the N. S. Wales Industrial Commission was
being fixed, nobody put Mr. Piddington,
K.C., through an examination to find out
what it cost him to live. If when Mr.
Browne, K.C., was at the Bar a solicitor
had called at his chambers with a brief
and said, “Mr. Browne, I’ve got a brief
here which I’d like you to take, but before
I mark it I want to know how many pairs
of socks you wear out in a year and what
your greengrocer’s bill is per week,” Mr.
Browne would undoubtedly have come to the
conclusion that there was at least one client
in Sydney who had a lunatic for a lawyer.
It is possible, no doubt, to determine what
a man can live and work on. But you don’t
want a flock of lay witnesses to tell you
that. It is a matter entirely for a jury of
scientists. All else must be a matter of
opinion. What is reasonable comfort, for
instance, in relation to a dwelling? To one
man a hut in the forest, with bark roof
and earthen floor, is comfort; to another
a mansion of 20 rooms is inadequate. Nor
is it any answer to say that the man with
the hut doesn’t know what comfort is. He
might be more comfortable in a two-roomed
shack. He might be still more comfortable
with four rooms. Or with six. And with
a hot-water service throughout. And with
a cold-air chamber. Where is the line to
be drawn once you leave the scientists’
simple determination of the amount upon
which the human being can be kept healthy
and vigorous?
If Mr. Browne, the president of the
N. S. Wales Industrial Commission, had, as
a barrister, been asked by a solicitor with
a brief what his greengrocer’s bill was per
week, it may be taken for granted that Mr.
Browne would have told the solicitor to
mind his own business. And it may be
taken for granted also that Mr. Browne
would have been still more enraged if the
solicitor had gone to some tenth-rate counsel
and, having discovered how he lived, had
then offered Mr. Browne, K.C., a brief with
the fee marked according to the other man’s
cost of living. Yet, instead of feeling in-
sulted, the working man is expected to
regard every cost-of-living and basic-wage
inquiry as some wonderful thing done in
his interests and to his advantage. It is
the biggest piece of leg-pulling ever inflicted
upon the working man.
Wages are not something that falls from
Heaven. You can’t even go out and turn
a handle and produce them in unlimited
quantities. They have to be earned before
they can be paid: they can be financed,
of course, but they can be paid only out of
current production or past earnings. The
farmer knows this very well. He looks on
his farm and realises that he can have lid
more than it will yield him. It is no use
holding a meeting and deciding, after taking
evidence, that he and his neighbors must
have £4 per week. They are not such fools
—they know they can’t have it if they don’t
produce it. The position is not a bit dif-
ferent so far as any other laborer in the
country is concerned. The total divided
can be no greater than the total produced
plus whatever may be available out of past
savings; and there is never enough of them
to last long. There is, then, only one basis
on which wages can be paid for any length
of time, and that is production. Needs have
nothing whatever to do with it: the farmer
needs as much as anybody, but all his needs
will not add one bushel to his crop.
The story is told by those who want to
retain this shocking imposition on the
workers that the basic wage was designed
to prevent sweating and has done it. It
has not only done nothing of the sort, but
it has produced worse things. A litter of
pigs feeding at a trough on an ill-regulated
farm make an interesting study. If the
tucker is fed in at one end the cunning
pigs soon learn to get as close to the source
of supply as possible. There may be enough
for all; but when the cunning and the strong
have been served there is little for the
others. The basic wage is determined on
what somebody or other says are the needs
of the worker. If, however, there is not
‘enough to go round—that is to say, if the
wage has been fixed without regard for pro-
duction—then those who can push their
noses into the trough first get their feed,
and the rest go short or get nothing. To-day
scarcely a wheat-farmer is making half the
basic wage, after his commitments have
been met. Why? Because, with the help
of the law, the stronger and the more cun-
ning have had their noses planted firmly
in the trough, and there is little or nothing
left for the farmer. Nor is there for the
farm laborer. The basic wage was long-
ago thrown on the rubbish-tip so far as
rural industries are concerned. Because the
non-rural basic wage was fixed on sup-
posed needs and not on earnings, something
had to be stolen from somebody to make
it up; and the somebody is not only the
farmer, but almost every variety of rural
laborer.
And not they only. In almost every
establishment there is certain work which
is very profitable, just as in almost every
mine there is a small quantity of ore which
gives exceptional returns. In most mines,
as in most other establishments, a certain
amount of work could be done even though
wages were doubled. But as in mines so in
other establishments, there is other ore
which is on the border line under good con-
ditions; under bad conditions it becomes
unprofitable. You ca.n do a fine thing for
perhaps 50 p.c. of the men by putting the
wages up 25 p.c.; but you can only do it by
pushing the other 50 p.c. right out of a job.
Yet it does not mean that if we swept
away this basic wage altogether, wages
would fall. On the contrary there is ever/
reason to believe that the general average of
wages would be very much higher. Wages
nowadays are governed, so it is alleged, by
the needs of the workers. If they were
governed by the workers’ earnings, those
earnings would very soon be increased. So
long as a man’s wages are governed by his
needs or supposed needs, what inducement
has he to really earn more? A few months
ago some hundreds of men were dismissed
from Australian banks. One man was quite
frank about it. He wrote: “Along with scores
more I deserve it. I simply rested on the
award and the increments it provided. Like
many others, I never tried to earn the extra
money.” That man was sore with the
award. He believed that it had demoralised
him and. many besides, and had earned for
them the sack when it became a question of
reducing the staff.
The basic wage is a little bit of Commun-
ism sneaked in upon the community, and
the majority of politicians have not had
the pluck to attack it. The big bluff has
been put up that it is a great thing for the
worker. The time has come to say that it
is an insult to the worker; that to inquire
what it costs to keep him is something that
might reasonably be asked about a horse
or a cow. but not about a man. He is
entitled to get what he earns; and that and
that only should be the basis of his wage.
CAN PRIMARY INDUSTRIES
SAVE US?
The tendency, not only at Ottawa but in
economic discussions generally, is to divide
the countries of the world into primary and
secondary producers, with a sort of implied
understanding that each sort should stay
put. It ought to be worth while consider-
ing and comparing the recent history and
the prospects of the two.
A hundred years ago it was said roughly
that it took 75 p.c. of the population to
raise the necessary foodstuffs and material
for clothing. Then various great changes
took place. Population grew rapidly in
the drier countries of the “new world,” and
there was a large increase especially of the
wheat crop per hand employed. Machinery
was developed to suit the conditions. The
sickle and the scythe and, later, the reaper
and the winnower, were followed by the
harvester; the broadcasting of seed by hand
and the haphazard spreading of stable
manure were followed by the drill, which
planted seed and chemical fertiliser side
by side. The average wool clip from our
merino sheep has been almost doubled
since 1871. The 75 p.c. of the people
who were employed to produce food and
the raw material for clothing were gradu-
ally reduced. As late as 1901 32.5 p.c. of
the breadwinners in Australia were primary
producers, by 1911 they were down to 30.4
p.c., by 1921 they were 25.8 p.c. —the figures
for 1931 are not available because Aus-
tralia failed in its obligation that year and
neglected its census. Yet, notwithstanding
the heavy reduction in the percentage of
primaiy producers, the total value of com-
modity exports was 35 millions in 1901,
58 millions in 1911 and 72 millions in
1921-22—a1l on the basis of 1901 prices. The
average annual production of wheat can
now be put at 150 million bushels; in
1901 it was 48 millions. Nor has the wheat
production of Australia increased relatively
as much as that of some other countries.
Taking a five-years’ average, the produc-
tion in bushels of the four great wheat-
growing countries which have practically
come on to the world’s market during the
past 50 years has been as follows: —
1909-13. 1927-30.
U.S.A 690,000,000 863,000,000
Canada 197,000,000 437,000,000
Argentine . . 147,000,000 250,000,000
Australia . . 91,000,000 155.000,000
Two years ago the heads of the Consoli-
dated Wheat Pool set up in the U.S.A.
were agreed that the world was much over-
planted with wheat. “Looking over the
world situation,” the Chief Selling Agent
wrote, “we find the acreage given to wheat
has been so increased while Russia has
been dormant that it now becomes an
absolute necessity for farmers in all export-
ing countries, including Canada, to reduce
their acreage.” The world’s supply avail-
able for export and carry-over towards the
end of last, year, exclusive of anything in
Russia, was well over 1000 million bushels.
In other words, the great wheat-exporting
countries had, in addition to all their home
requirements, at the end of the last ship-
ping season as much wheat as Australia
could grow in seven years.
Attention has many times been drawn
to the fact that values of rural products
in Australia have shrunk very much more
than those of non-rural commodities.
Taking 1911 prices as a base (=100), wool
is now about 87 and wheat 91, while non-
rural commodities are 178. No doubt the
fact that the workers in our secondary (non-
rural) industries are much better organised
than the others is partly responsible for
this disparity. But the figures everywhere
are a good deal alike. The U.S.A. Dept,
of Agriculture calculated that early this
year the average price of all farm pro-
ducts was 63 p.c. of the average over the
last five pre-war yeai*s, while the articles
which farmers commonly buy were on the
average 121 p.c. of those prices. The
greater part of the explanation appears to
be that primary products are in very much
greater over-supply than manufactured
products.
Many causes have been found for the
present world-depression and many reme-
dies, One of the most potent causes is
the loss of equilibrium between the pro-
ducers. There may come a time when the
world will not be able to support its popu-
lation; but plainly that time is far distant,
because our raw products, which require
space for production, are a glut. The
world has enough raw materials—including
foodstuffs and the fabric for clothing—to
maintain millions more in secondary indus-
tries. It is no use looking to the primary
industries to take up the surplus millions
now unemployed. They are unemployed
almost wholly because the products of the
primary industries are already over-sup-
plied.
No doubt there are some primary pro-
ducts which we in Australia can go on
profitably producing in greater quantities.
With the world’s industries back to equilib-
rium—that is to say, with a proper balance
of people in all occupations—we shall be
able to grow more wool and find a ready
market for it. We ought to be able to
produce more minerals and timber and a
few other things; possibly wheat, though
how much more is doubtful. For the
present, with industries out of balance,
primaiy producers are forced to sell in
glutted markets, and they cannot buy their
fair proportion of goods: they are prob-
ably purchasing only 55 p.c. or thereabouts
of what should be their capacity—and was
their capacity until three years ago. In
these circumstances it is an anomaly that
the primary producer as a rule is quite
willing that other primary producers should
be encouraged; but he will have small en-
couragement given to the, secondary pro-
ducers. The Bulletin believes that this
is all wrong. The salvation of the farmer
and the grazier must come from an exten-
sion, not of farming and grazing, but of
secondaiy pursuits. And that not only to-
day, but in the future; for nothing is surer
than that, just as the number of people
required to grow foodstuffs has fallen from
75 to 25 p.c. of the total, so further mech-
anical and chemical aids will reduce the
number far below 25 p.c. Happily there
need be no fear that there will not be
enough work to go round. Not half the
Australian people are as yet properly
housed; and nobody knows yet what is to
come after wireless. Nor need we have any
fear # about the means to purchase. Our
power to buy is the same thing as our
power to produce, given the proper
functioning of currency and credit.
C. J. GOODE AND J. T. LANG.
In one of his last appearances as leader
of the N.S.W. State Opposition, T. R.
Bavin bitterly remarked that a bad record
was no disqualification for a Government
appointment under the Lang regime; “it
seems to be a positive qualification.” He was
referring particularly to the case of Charles
Joachim Goode, sometime goods superin-
tendent and then chief traffic manager in
the Railway Department, who, dismissed by
Chief Commissioner Cleary and Commis-
sioner Brain for “gross misconduct and
maladministration”—this when the “Labor”
Government had been in office for three
months—was taken into the Treasury by
Lang to advise him on transport matters,
named chairman of the Transport Co-ordin-
ation Board, and finally appointed Chief
Transport Commissioner, at £3500 p.a. “less
financial-emergency deduction.” When he
was tackled on the subject in the Leg.
Assembly Lang brazened it out in his
insolent fashion. He refused to believe any-
thing to the detriment of his adviser and
protege, refused to let the case go to a
Royal Commission, refused even to pro-
duce pertinent papers for the edification of
members who had to vote the £3500 p.a.
“less financial emergency-deduction.”
The Stevens Government commissioned
Judge Thomson to inquire into the charges
against Goode, meanwhile giving that
gentleman leave of absence. Lang and
Lamaro, his Attorney-General, were called
as witnesses, chiefly to see if they could
throw any light on the mysterious dis-
appearance of a file relating to the case.
Lamaro said he had given the papers to
Lang, but could not remember whether
he had,placed them on the Boss’s table or
entrusted them to a messenger. Lang de-
clared that he did not know what had
become of the file; anyway, he hadn’t read
it, and it was not for him to .judge Goode,
whom he regarded as the victim of “a
man-hunt.” It came out that the contents
of one of the vanished papers—a report
of the Crown Solicitor—had been disclosed
to Goode by someone whom that person
was unable to recollect. Further informa-
tion was lacking, and the Commissioner
had to report that the mystery of the
missing file had baffled him.
But there were other pertinent docu-
ments which were produced at the inquiry,
being under the care of parties with noth-
ing to hide. One was a cheque for £lOO,
drawn by S. E. Vernon, a person who had
very profitable cartage contracts with the
Railway Department in Goode’s time, and
endorsed “C. J. Goode.” Questioned about
this cheque, Goode refused to answer “on the
ground that it may incriminate me”; and
Vernon took the same stand. Two other
cheques drawn by Vernon and traced to
Goode’s bank account were put in. Of
the cheque endorsed “C. J. Goode” the
Commissioner says:—
In the absence of any explanation, it is clear to
my mind that only one rational inference can be
drawn, and that is, that it was a corrupt payment
made....with the object of inducing Goode to exert
the powers and influence which he held in the office
of goods superintendent towards showing some pre-
ference or favor in connection with the wool con-
tracts, and that such misconduct on the part of Goode
amounted to an offence under the provisions of the
Secret Commissions Prohibition Act, 1919.
Regarding the two other cheques:—
I can arrive at no other conclusion than that
these two payments stand on the same footing....
and were made and received corruptly either for
past or future favors.
Goode also had private transactions with
another railway contractor, J. B. Davis, of
the Yellow Express Co. A car was bought
“for Goode in his name, either by Davis
or the Yellow Express C 0.,” a piece of land
was purchased from him, and there was an
amount of £l5O, alleged to be a loan. Con-
cerning this £l5O, his Honor was im-
pressed with “the very significant admission
by Davis that he obtained no receipt or
acknowledgment, and never asked Goode
for repayment,” although Goode was in
receipt of a large salary, and paid into his
wife’s account “much more than was needed
to repay Davis.” Here again Lang’s Chief
Transport Commissioner refused to give
information on the ground that it might
incriminate him; and the Judge pronounces
him “guilty of serious misconduct amount-
ing to a fraud on the Railway Commis-
sioners.”
Goode has resigned; and because more
than two years have elapsed since the in-
famous transactions on which the Royal
Commissioner has passed judgment, neither
he nor the other parties to them can
be prosecuted under that unsatisfactory
measure the Secret Commissions Act, from
which the time limit should be expunged.
Lang, no doubt, expects to go scot free.
But why should he? A Federal member and
former Minister was expelled from the
House of Representatives for championing
rebellion in Ireland and attacking the
Empire. If expulsion was warranted in his
case, it is surely warranted in the case of
a politician who insolently appoints a
public servant, discharged for dishonesty,
to a position under the Crown at £3500 p.a..
“less financial-emergency deduction,’’ with-
out having called upon the discharged ser-
vant to clear himself or even bothered to
go into the facts. He not only reinstated
and rewarded Goode, in impudent defiance
of the tradition that no person accused
of corruption and uncleared should be
appointed to a lucrative and responsible
post in the service of the King, but he re-
moved Cleary from his post—promoted the
crook and punished the honest man. In
another age Lang would have been im-
peached, and he should certainly be
expelled. Let him justify himself to his
constituents, if he can.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Where Wages Come From.
After being neglected for some months
there is again a growing disposition to
advocate, rationing as “the fairest way of
distributing the limited wages that are
available.” There would be something in
this if wages were a fixed quantity. With
so many gallons of drinking water in a
boat adrift at sea, nothing could be fairer
or more necessary than rationing. But
wages are not like the keg or two of water.
They can be added to indefinitely.
Nobody is earning the wages for the
million or more who are at work in Aus-
tralia to-day. Thejr are earning their own
wages; and the other 300,000 could just as
.surely earn theirs. Brown makes a wheel-
barrow and sells it to Smith. Smith gets
the money for building a hen-house for
Jones. Jones gets the money for making
a suit of clothes for Robinson. Jones had
to live while he was building Robinson’s
clothes, so he couldn’t buy a thing from
Smith worth as much as the thing he sold
to Robinson; but all the balance was dis-
tributed among other people, who will pass
some of it back to Brown, and thus enable
him to make another wheelbarrow, which
he will sell to Murphy—and the whole
process will go over again. Without a doubt
credit will have to be given somewhere ;
but whether credit is given or not is
chiefly a matter of psychology; and in this
connection psychology means confidence.
There is no need to “create credit”—mean-
ing money. You don’t buy a thing because
you can draw a cheque to pay for it; you
buy it because you think it is a good
bargain and you feel you can afford it.
As soon as confidence is established credit
creates itself: there is abundance to base
it on in the deposits which the banks hardly
know what to do with.
And there are good reasons why we should
think pretty well of ourselves. How many
of its people know that Australia has put
up almost the best record in the world so
far as balance of trade is concerned? The
National City Bank of N. York—one of
the world’s greatest institutions—compiled
a list of 17 debtor countries, showing their
excess of exports (+ ) or imports ( —) in
millions of dollars during the past three
years :
Industrial and Semi-industrials
1929. 1930. 1931,
Germany.. .. .. —174 +223 +591
Japan —3O 38 —42
Italy —339 —275 —B3
Czecho-Slovakia .. . . +l6 +53 +4l
Austria .. .. .. —152 —l2O —l2O
Poland —34 —l9 +47
Canada .. .. .. —ll7 —122 —27
Norway ~ .. .. —B6 —lO2 —99
Primary Producers.
Argentina , . . . +BB —lO3 +77
Brazil +lO —59 +lOl
Chile +B2 S +27
China —l6O —l9l —165
British India .. .. +294 +264 +lO9
Dutch East Indies . - +l5B +l5B +96
South Africa .. .. +69 +9l +B7
Australia —lO6 —4l +l2O
Hungary —4 + 16 +5
In that list there is only one country which
makes a better showing than Australia, and
that is Germany. Certainly Italy has
turned a debit balance of 339 millions into
one of 83 millions—a swing of 256 million
dollars—while Australia’s total swing was
226 million dollars. But note this: excep.t
Germany there was not another among the
17 debtor nations which had a surplus of
exports amounting to as much as 120 mil-
lion dollars in 1931. Admittedly we had
a very* heavy foreign debt to serve; but
we were by no means alone in that regard.
4
The Folly of Voluntaryism.
The failure of Australia’s voluntary system
of defence is inevitable in peace time, when
members of all the fighting services are out
of favor with the public. Voluntaryism is
only kept alive in Britain by making life
in- the army or navy a comfortable, well-
paid whole-time job. It is a hopeless
system for Australia. We have 3,000,000
square miles to defend, and it is not being
defended, and never will be till a return
is made to citizen service.
Everyone of intelligence knows what
happens to volunteers after a war. It was a
subject for the jibes of the cynical genera-
tions before Kipling wrote about it after
the last Boer War. The potential soldier
is made a fuss of when it is desired to
get him into the trenches, and if he believes
the rubbish that is sung and shouted at
him he becomes a very disappointed man
when the national danger is past. He is
always assured that this war is different
from all its predecessors, and that his lot
will be different from that of previous sol-
diers if he returns. He finds, as a rule,
that there is no place for him in civilian
life. Those who were hard-headed enough
to disregard the elderly gentlemen with
flags, and the young ladies with white
feathers, have established a lead in the
race for fame and fortune. They have no
time for him and his grievances, and after
a while they get annoyed by his importun-
ities and reminiscences; and the process is
cumulative.
Each fresh generation in a country that
has fought a war under the voluntary sys-
tem has less time for those who volunteered.
In any avenue of employment where kissing
goes by favor, the tendency is for non-
soldiers to get the kisses. The remedy is a
consistent policy of compulsory service.
Compulsory service sends the right men to
the front and keeps the right men at home;
it makes for efficiency in the field (the A.I.F.
would have won further renown if its twice-
and thrice-wounded combatants could have
been replaced from time to time by fit
recruits); and it doesn’t give those who
have not fought a pull over those who
have when peace arrives.
4
Public Speaking.
Societies are springing up all over Aus-
tralia for the encouragement of talking in
public. Some of them are lunch clubs,
others university student clubs, others
trades hall and church clubs. They are
as popular in country towns as in the cities
and suburbs. Most of them are open for
free discussion; a few are frankly for the
propagation of Communism or Freetrade
or “social credit” or some other scheme for
world-salvation. Enthusiasm seems to be
the only thing common to them all.
Hitherto, on the two or three occasions
when The Bulletin has described the Aus-
tralian as for the most part a shy person, the
remark has drawn a derisive chorus. The
Bulletin has been told that, instead of
being shy, the Australian is, in plain words,
a skite and a braggart, with more impudence
than most. But even if all that were true,
which it isn’t, he might still be a shy person.
But whether shy or otherwise the Austra-
lian has, at any rate, rarely been vocal. So
little of a public speaker has he been that
the man who could talk to him fluently has
almost always been lifted out of the ranks.
One of the Australian’s greatest weaknesses
has been his inability to detect an empty
head behind a ready tongue. The ready
tongue has had him fascinated.
This new movement suggests an awaken-
ing. Young men and men not so young
seem to have come to the conclusion that
the affairs of the country have not been
managed well and that it is about time they
equipped themselves better to take part in
the business. They ought to be warmly
encouraged to do it. It is a thing not to
be proud of that the number of decently
equipped people willing to come forward in
the public service is so small that for the
most part we are driven to employ to get
us out of our troubles the very same people
who got us into them. There is something
wrong, surely, with a system under which,
for example, we wait almost breathlessly for
the return of Mr. Bruce to the Federal
Parliament and instantly lift him to the
highest eminence, quite regardless of the
fact that he more than most men was
responsible for getting us on the rocks.
Whether the societies for the Encourage-
ment of Talking in Public will bring for-
ward the men who ought to be talking in
public but cannot is another matter. The
men of middle-age or more who have
neglected the art of public-speaking are not
very likely now to get the necessary train-
ing to think on their feet, But that is no
reason why the next generation should not
equip itself better. It will be a big thing
done for Australia if the thinkers can also
become the speakers. And there is no
reason why they should not. Hitherto the
thinkers have rather despised the fluent
talkers, and, generally, not without cause.
They have only themselves and our system
of government to blame, nevertheless, if
the country has been governed with little
intelligence.
One note of warning seems called for.
These societies have value only so far as
they help men to put thought and convic-
tion into words. Of words themselves there
already are too many. Fluency without
thought they should treat as_ a public mis-
fortune and danger which it is their special
province to combat.
- -
Education on Trial.
School-in spector Law’s article on this sub-
ject (B. 13/7/’32) has produced a crop of
ietters in reply. The following are extracts
from two of the most significant of them :
Mainly About Examinations.
The weakness ot our university public examinations
lies largely in the fact that most university pro-
fessors and lecturers have had no practical experi-
ence in teaching- children between the ag-es of 13
and 17, and have a very hazy idea of their mental
capacities. Then, too, they are all specialists, -whereas
the youngsters they examine have to give an equal
amount of time and' study to seven or eight widely
different subjects. It is impossible for them to have
the detailed knowledge which the questions often
appear to demand; questions, too, in many cases,
designed, it would seem, to find out what a candidate
does not know rather than what he does. Children
have no experience of life to guide them, and know-
only what has been laboriously acquired from text-
books or drilled into them by that painstaking,
patient, long-suffering, badly-paid, unappreciated and
most valuable of all citizens —the teacher.
Contrary to the ingenuous belief of most educa-
tional theorists, our average boy and girl are not
eager to learn ; usually they are extremely reluctant,
having 141 uch more important and fascinating- matters
to occupy their attention; and it is too much to
expect them to take an intelligent interest in sub-
jects which do not attract them in the least. And
examiners who expect them to do a considerable
amount of reading outside the bare requirements of
the syllabus will be disappointed. Yet that examiners
do expect this is shown repeatedly in their reports.
They appear to regard their own subject as the only-
one the examinee has to learn, not knowing any-
thing of the difficulties of arranging school time-
tables so as to allot each of the seven or eight
subjects even a reasonable amount of time, or of the
limitations to a child’s capacity, mental and physical,
and the strain to which a rapidly growing adolescent
is subjected,
I do not agree with Ihose who would do away
with public examinations altogether. But I do
agree with Mr. Law that the" growth, in range and
complexity of the syllabuses in the various subjects
is alarming. In the first place there are too many
subjects required for a certificate; and in the second
place examiners require too much detailed know-
ledge. But in themselves examinations are a posi-
tive help to education, not a hindrance. They serve
the very important purpose of defining and limiting
the scope of subjects which are so wide that a life-
time is not enough for the complete study of even
one of them; they provide an invaluable stimulus:
they afford a basis of comparison, an impartial stan-
dard by which the work of a school, the attainments
of its pupils,’may be judged, so far as this aspect
of a school’s ' work —I do not say it is the most
important aspect—-is concerned. They are a good
training-ground for after-life, for the experience
gained in working at top pressure, under trying-
conditions, against time, is invaluable to the man
who is often called upon to do the same thing in
his daily work. —11. L. Ward.
Education —a Failure.
As a preparation for life and leisure, and
as an introduction to thought and culture, our
education is nothing less than a failure, and this
is now almost universally admitted. Its conformity,
as in Prussia, kills most individuality, and its
cramming calls aloud for a new criterion, whilst
its resting satisfied with a “leaving certificate”
generally ends in community-tragedy. Henceforward,
advancing with evolution, education must stand for
“health of body, truth of mind and goodwill of
spirit,’’ as laid down even in the “Declaration of
Geneva”—over 700 years after Magna Charta. Par-
liamentary inertia, so characteristic of Australia, is
only the necessary outcome of public apathy and
ignorance. It is upon public uplift that legislation
depends. Also departmental administration makes
many and serious mistakes. As the adult leopard
does not change his spots, we must concentrate and
specialise on the child. The sooner the better, and
the better the results.
The rising generation of Australians stands out *
for intelligence and initiative, hut is far too self-
centred and self-contained, and (outside sport) far
too easily satisfied and expectant of the best at the
minimum of expense and effort. All these are the
faults of our young nationhood, and should he dis-
carded. But authorities must lead, and parents must
become broader-minded. Victoria and probably our
other States also still have ideals of education far
behind present requirements—still lag far behind
the Old Country, behind America in the duration
of school life and mental hygiene, and behind
Scandinavia in maternal and Maoriland in infantile
mortality. As a result, we spend far more on disease
and crime than is or should be required.
As regards the almost universally-required incul-
cation of the spirit of service and goodwill—the
greatest need of the age—the instances of it are
few and negligible. According to philosophy, “only
those organisms prosper which modify their environ-
ment to their mutual advantage”—-perhaps the most
pregnant lesson of our times. In fact, the British
Prime Minister on Empire Day last year was
broadcast to the effect that only thus could Revo-
lution be prevented.—J. W. Springthorpe, M.A.,
M.D., Lt. Col. A.A.M.C.
4
J. Bull, Protectionist.
The Old Man in London lately entered
on a resolute policy of cutting down im-
ports. He did this partly because his
imports were more than he could pay for
unless he took to floating loans abroad, and
partly because his own people badly needed
the work and wages to be gained by making
a lot of goods instead of importing them.
This is his record covering the years when
he was experimenting with tariff improve-
ments and finally the time when he took to
Protection in earnest: —•
Imports. Customs Revenue.
1929.. £1,220,765,300 £120,611,299
1930.. 1,043,975,261 121,401,000
1931.. 862,174,709 136,152,000
1932.. 720,972,000 173,275,000
The figures for 1932 are partly based on
actual returns for the first half of the year
and partly on official estimates for the
whole year, but they are probably pretty
accurate. Considering how the Old Man
has cut down imports, and how he has
forced up the customs revenue by making
the imports which remain pay so much
more duty, the performance is certainly
remarkable.
The old Freetrade idea was that if some
foreigner could supply the goods more
cheaply than we could (or than we did) he
should get the business, even if we hadn’t
the money to pay for them and had to go
into debt. In the long run, it was held,
we could always pay in produce—some kind
of produce where the advantage of cheap-
ness lay on our side. The really incur-
able Freetrader adheres to this theory even
if the foreigner from whom we make our
purchases won’t buy our produce at any
price.
The Australian borrowed £215,542,548
abroad in the 10 peace years 1921 to 1930
to pay for imports. The Old Man in
London would rather throw Freetrade on
the scrapheap than follow that poisonous
example.
——-4
The Bankrupt Grazier.
From J. P. Abbott, of Wingen (N.S.W.): —
The Bulletin (20/7/’32) says: “Those.... are
surely called upon to explain how it is that this
wool, which is not in excessive supply, should have
suffered so much more than the average loss of
value.” As a matter of fact, wool has not fallen
in value as much as many other * raw products—
for which we have to thank the graziers’ associations
for their refusal to enter into any price-fixing or
stabilisation schemes.
The “Survey” published by the Guaranty Trust
Co. of New York (May, 1932) gives a list of 19
raw-material products, including wool; of these nine
have fallen below 1913 price levels in the U.S.A.
by a larger amount than wool. Nearly all the com-
modities which show the largest fall are those which
in recent years have attempted to raise their prices
by some of the numerous stabilisation, price-fixing
or orderly-marketing schemes. The Wholesale Price
Table published by this New York bauk seems
to confirm the McMillan Report (p. 61): “In fact,
a variety of Stabilisation Schemes have been adopted
in recent years, and have been applied, either in
particular areas or over the whole world, to rubber,
sugar, zinc, coffee, nitrate, copper, iron and steel,
tin, wheat, cotton. The majority of these schemes
designed to secure orderly conditions of production,
marketing and price have in practice failed to
achieve their objective.”
Many of us believe that the calamitous drop in
world’s prices which, as the McMillan Report indi-
cates, has fallen :th special severity on the raw-
goods producing countries, has been caused by the
actions of the United States and France in sjnash-
ing the working of the pre-war Gold Standard.
Through tariffs, reparations and hoarding of gold,
prices of goods have been driven to abysmal depths,
and the world is confronted with a .monetary crisis
of the fin§t magnitude, ,We. ; hope that Ottawa. : ?(jy
be the beginning of the pathway leading to -a
brighter world of higher prices.
But apart from the external position, the internal
one is capable of remedy by the Government and
the Commonwealth Bank as managers of the currency.
We graziers believe that we should be paid in local
currency for our exports an amount which would
purchase the same quantity of manufactured goods
in Australia as the price of our product would buy
in London, less, of course, costs of transport. In
other words, that the rate of exchange should express
the differing purchasing power over manufactured
goods of the sterling pound and the Australian pound.
In order that the Australian manufacturers should
not raise their prices higher and higher as the
exchange rates rose, the Graziers’. Association of
N.S.W., in its letter of May -i last to the
Prime Minister, asked that “there should be a per-
centage reduction of the tariff for every rise per
cent, in the exchange.” By this means the stfAw
quo of Australian secondary price-levels would be
maintained and purchasing power restored to the
primary producers, enabling them to meet their fixed
commitments and buy from the manufacturers.
Apparently Mr. Lyons will do nothing. He main-
tains that the exchange is no concern of the Govern-
ment’s and refuses to confer with the Commonwealth
Bank Board with the view of lowering the tariff
and raising the exchange, although, by his letter to
Mr. Lyons, as Chairman of the Loan Council, last
January, Robert Gibson plainly asked for a direction
jps to the Government’s policy in this matter. He
wrote: “The present position in regard to exchange
becomes one of more than a mere hanking question,
aud, indeed, impinges upon national policy—upon
which it will be necessary for the Bank Board to
have the views of the Government.” The Prime
Minister may try to wash his hands of the exchange
and do nothing to meet the Bank’s request. But
unless an adjustment is made between costs and
prices in Australia, then the great primary indus-
tries must fail and with them the whole economic
fabric of the nation will be destroyed.
And a few words in reply:—
The N.S.W. “Monthly Summary” for June shows
that, taking 1911 pi'ices as the base (= TOO), wool
was 87, wheat 91, butter 138, all non-rural com-
modities 178, and all commodities 152. It is true
that in New York in April wool had fallen 2 p.c.
less than the average of raw products, but what is
the use of comparing wool, which is not enormously
over-produced, with such things as - rubber (down
93 p.c.) and sugar (down 74 p.c.)? The Bulletin
was not arguing in favor of any stabilisation scheme.
But it said that those who opposed any change in
the methods of marketing “are surely called upon to
explain how it is that this wool, which is not in
excessive supply, should have suffered more than the
average loss of value.”
To lump wool with raw materials which are in
excessive supply is simply to throw dust in our
own eyes. Prices of all goods have not been “driven
to abysmal depths.” In New 1 ork in March “farm
products stood at only 45 p.c. of the 1926 average,
whereas the latest calculation of the prices paid by
farmers for commodities bought is 77 p.c.” The
Bulletin suggests that wool, not being in excessive
supply, ought to be among the goods that have
not, had the, abysmal fall.
Mr. Abbott says that “we graziers” believe they
should he paid in local currency for their exports
an amount which would purchase the same quantity
of manufactured goods in Australia as the price ot
their product would buy in London. To that end
the exchange rate should be 130 or if necessary 200.
Well, what would bo the result? Imports would be
blocked. It is no use 'saying that duties would be
reduced. In hundreds of cases there is no duty:
in hundreds more the duty is below 50 p.c. So
here you would erect a tariff wall behind which -
the manufacturer could put up prices higher than
they are now; which means that every rise in the
exchange rate would call for a still higher rate.
Mr. Abbott has quoted a. great New York bank.
Let The Bulletin quote another and a far greater,
the National City Bank: “Many frankly say they
want a depreciated currency because it will accom-
plish their purpose of giving higher prices and
giving relief to debtors, taking no account of the
enormous confusion that would result in industry
and trade. They think of the policy as subject' to
orderly control, but experience has shown that control
of currency depreciation is the most dangerous experi-
ment ever attempted by a Government.”
As to the Commonwealth Bank, the Board has
made its position quite clear. It is entirely opposed
to using exchange for “sectional advantage.”. It has
never asked for a direction from the Government ; but
it has stated that if it is now to raise the rate of
exchange it will do it not in accordance with hank-
ing policy, but only under the direction of the
Government. That in its opinion such dictation
would be most dangerous it has again and again
clearly indicated.
4
The Undemocratic Block-voting System.
“Wealsman” : The question of proportional
representation (B. 6/7/’32) is so closely
associated with democratic self-government
that it ranks as of world importance. Aus-
tralians rather pride themselves that their
country has led the way in reforms calcu-
lated to perfect the machinery by which
democracy can express itself in the Legis-
lature. Yet we still tolerate electoral and
constitutional institutions which amount to
a hamstringing of democratic representation.
Take the method of electing the Senate.
Can it be said that the block vote by
which Senators are elected ensures either
fair or accurate expression of the people’s
will? Theoretically the Senate is not a
party chamber, but a States’ House. Every-
body knows that it is nothing of the sort.
Under the block system of voting, which
gives a bare majority all the seats and the
bare minority none, the Senate provides
partyism with a nesting-place and a home
much less subject to disturbance than the
House of Reps., which goes holus-bolus to
the electors triennially. The popular
Chamber, whatever its sectional alignment,
dares not display over-much party arrogance;
the Senate may display party arrogance
in comparative safety—certainly without
fear of annihilation at the polls. The elec-
tion of Senators by p.r., each State voting
as one constituency (as at present), would
help to remedy the worst evils apparent m
the existing system; it would at least give
the Senate an opportunity of living up to
its charter and cease making an exhibition
of itself as a legislative confidence-trick.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW. V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Diamond Engagement Mings
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia,
Write for a selection on approval.
HARDY BIOS. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE.
1 1 6 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A deputation descended on Lyons from all
parts of Australia last week and pleaded in
vain for the abolition or radical amendment
of the land tax —introduced by Andy Fisher
to “break up large estates,” including city
allotments, which if broken up any more will
have to be squeezed into sideways. Lyons
didn’t even pretend that the tax was. doing
what it was designed to do or that it was
necessary for the purpose; he simply said
that they needed the money, though if the
next footpad who is collared makes the same
plea the magistrate will probably give him
a month extra for impudence.
One of the worst features of the Lang
regime was that Sydney began to stink of
corruption. What the heads were alleged
to be doing, thousands of the rank and file
proceeded to do, and no “alleged” about it.
It was frankly admitted that whole mobs were .
double-banking the dole; now it turns out
that an unknown and therefore unspecified
number in work were also drawing “unem-
ployment relief”—some of them actually lost
a day’s pay to turn up at a check roll-call.
lu the first week of the Ottawa conference
Dominion politicians were unexpectedly
prompt and unanimous in deciding what they
wanted from the Old Man, who received the
information without enthusiasm. This week
the Old Man will probably explain what he
wants, in his new capacity as a High Pro-
tectionist State with a tariff which is useful
for bargaining purposes, and may throw a
new light on things. The Old Man’s com-
plaint is that the Dominions, including Aus-
tralia, are comparatively poor customers.
Their reply is that they are better customers
than they can honestly afford to be.
The tables have been turned on J. M. Con-
cannon, Lang’s Minister in the Leg. Council.
When Lang was about to appoint C. J.
Goode Chief Transport Commissioner and
“remove” Cleary, the Chief Railway Com-
missioner, who had sacked Goode from the
railways, young Mr. Goncannon assured the
Council that “the Government is quite satis-
fied that there is not a scintilla of evidence
“Conceding that Mr. Goode had been guilty, prior
to taking over the Chief Commissionership of Trans-
port, of the offences found against him, it is high
time that public servants were protected from the
temptation and pressure that the immoral code of
commerce directs upon them.” — Mr. Lang’s news-
paper.
Public Servant (being fitted with uniform
designed to repel tempters, and with
a far-off echo of Mercia in “The Sign of
the Cross”): “They cannot square me
now!”
to justify the charges made against Mr.
Goode, or to justify his victimisation at the
hands of the Chief Railway Commissioner.”
Now Goode has resigned as a result of the
evidence of which there was “not a scintilla,”
and of a Rpyal Commissioner’s comments
thereon, and Cleary is Chief Transport Com-
missioner,
Vic. Attorney-General Menzies is sound-
ing the Supreme Court Judges on his pro-
posal for reducing the number of jurymen at
criminal trials. Economy is his aim in sug-
gesting the change, but apart from that he
sees no magic or merit in the number twelve.
Opposition-leader Tunnecliffe, generally so
eager for change or experiment in other direc-
tions, is a rank conservative in this matter.
Politicians are the worst of prophets. In
1927 Walter Elliot, M.P., since a British
Minister, wrote as follows in a book called
“Toryism and the Twentieth Century” re-
garding the distribution of coal:
There are only some half a dozen centres In the
world to-day where this harvest is won in bulk.
This fact has, and will have, inescapable political
reactions. Thus....the policy of a free but coalless
Ireland will be of necessity friendly to Britain.
And last week the-De Valera Government,
in pursuit of the quarrel it has picked with
the Saxon over the land annuities, clapped a
duty of ss. a ton on British coal!
In a weak moment the
Scullin Gqvernment agreed to
back a Sydney syndicate
which set out to find “a moun-
tain of gold,” alleged to have
been discovered in Centralia
many years ago by an unfor-
tunate fellow named Lasseter.
The venture ended in the
death of Lasseter, after expen-
sive rescue work on the part
of the R.A.A.F.—“one ’plane'
crashed, a second was forced
down in bad country, and a
six-wheeled truck could not
negotiate the sandhills.” Now
a lone prospector has found
gold near the Centralian
border, and it is gleefully
announced on behalf of the
Sydney syndicate that “the
reef he has located is pro-
bably within the area of 200
square miles which the Fed-
eral Government granted it
for two years to carry out
exploration work.” It is to
be hoped that the Lyons Gov-
ernment will see that the
prospector’s interest in his
discovery is fully protected.
Such a proceeding would be
far more becoming to it than
the concerting of schemes to
deprive Westralia (and
Queensland) of the gold
bounty, which has done far
more to stimulate production
of a saleable commodity than
any other Commonwealth
bounty—has indeed done more towards get-
ting Australia out of its troubles than all
the millions spent on relief works.
The Greater Brisbane Council astonished
itself aaid everybody else by producing a sur-
plus of £34,235 for the financial year. What
will take away the breath of the average Syd-
neyite is that the trams returned a profit of
£27.751. Water services showed a surplus
of £119,853. It seems a devil of ai lot of
money to save on water, even in Queensland,
where they don’t drink much of it.
N.S.W. Premier Stevens proposes to shake
up banks and other financial institutions
which are alleged to be crayfishing out of
their obligations under the Premiers’ plan.
Reduction of interest on old loans was a fair
thing if the rate was fixed when money was
worth much less than it is to-day; and if con-
cerns beat a reduction by tearing up old con-
tracts 'and requiring borrowers to sign new
ones at the same or a higher rate, somebody
should be drawn and quartered. But The Bul-
letin has investigated a dozen such reports,
and three times out of four the advance is a
new one. And a bank or anybody else
might be quite justified in charging 10 p.c.
on a brand-new loan. In fact, this paper's
Wild Cat wouldn’t have lent to some of the
members of the last N. S. Wales Parliament
at 20 p.c. on the eve of the recent election.
Industry will not have half a chance until
wages are "uniform through the country—with
allowances for skill, etc., of course. Bricks
are thrown at the galvanised-iron and wire-
netting manufacturers, for example. But
the coal with which the iron ore is smelted
is mined by men who want 17/6 a day at
least, and the spelter is, mined by men who
often average more than that; and the pro-
duct is marketed among men who think they
have been extra-lucky if they have earned
5/- a day in the last two years. Another
ridiculous feature of the business is that the
iron ore is mined in S. Aus. by men who
get 63/- a week, and the limestone in Tas-
mania by others for 64/10 a week, 48 hours
in each case; and they are expected to buy
the product of the pound-a-day man. It is
like putting a sulky-pony to drag a wool-
waggon.
Lang broke his long silence last week, not
to say something about Ottawa, the Goode
case or the tin hares, but to expose another
’orrible scandal about the Bank of England.
He discovered in May that the directors of
this institution were mostly foreigners; now
he has learned that they never issue balance-
sheets. When the English realise the full
enormity of this outrage it is expected that
they will dismiss their “foreign” oppressors
and appoint a bank board consisting of Lang,
Garden, Goode, Donald Grant, Sleeman and
Swindell.
At the cost-of-living inquiry in Sydney,
beer was mentioned as a necessary of life;
it was claimed that provision for three pints
should be made in the weekly basic wage.
Then they came to stenographer (female).
“No beer here,” mused the President, looking
over his papers; “but surely somebody is
going to say she must have her cocktail.
A conference alleged to represent “sugar-
consuming interests” in all States except
Queensland has met in Adelaide and demanded
that tha sugar agreement be torn up at once.
The small State which advocates tearing up
scraps of paper must be wandering in its
mind. Big States can, do without scraps of
paper; small States can’t
“Vic. Labor bosses believe that the only means whereby the
party can regain its lost prestige is to depose Mr. Scullin.”
“Gracious goodness, boys, you can’t mean it! And here
am I willing to give everybody a share in that
buried treasure I’ve been talking so much about
I mean my fiduciary currency.”
This shows how the handful of capital
cities have mopped up the population of
country and country towns during the last
few years: in the first year of Andy Fisher’s
Federal land tax the country paid 64 p.c.
and the city and suburbs only 36 p.c. of
it; in 1927 (last figures available) country
paid only 32 p.c. and city and suburbs 68 p.c.
One result is that city rents have been
pushed higher and higher, and larger bites
have been taken out of the primary producer
by the middleman. As for the manufacturer,
one Sydney co. has lost £146,000 in the last
two years and been stung for £8470 Federal
land tax.
Queensland’s Labor Government is busy
fixing up schemes for the allotment of the
Commonwealth relief loan, but it is tying
a lc-ng party string to all of them Local
authorities, arc to be paid a £ for £ subsidy
for approved works; the Government will
advance the council’s share at 5 p.c. Award
rates must be paid, and only “financial”
unionists are to get a look in. ’ Then people
desiring to paint or renovate their properties
can get a loan up to £300; here again award
wages must be paid, and the toilers must,
carry the union brand. All intermittent
workers are also to receive award rates as
from August 15. But single men will get
only one day’s work every second week; and
already the cry can be heard that election
promises were much more lavish than that.
“Labor” confidently expects to be in muni-
cipal control of Greater Brisbane and the
City of Sydney before long. In Brisbane the
Moore Government abolished adult suffrage
and confined voting to householders, free-
holders and lessees, out Forgan Smith is re-
storing the franchise that Theodore estab-
lished. In Sydney reliance is placed on the
lodger vote. It is relatively stronger than
ever, the dosshouses being full while
thousands of offices are unoccupied; but the
Trades Hall refuses to believe that the
Stevens Government has sand enough to do
away with it.
A deputation waited on Vic. Railways
Minister Menzies asking him to prevent the
Commissioners from re-introducing the sys-
tem of paying by results. Menzies has re-
plied that, as the State pays experts to run
the railways on business lines, he proposes
to let them do it. As for the Commissioners
they will probably announce that, when the
public pay fares and freights without regard
to distance covered, the Commissioners will
pay wages and salaries without regard to
results obtained.
A strong point about the Australian poli-
tician is his capacity for struggling at groat
length with some simple matter and finding
25 ways in which a solution is impracticable.
The Moore Ministry in Queensland tackled
the formation of an Upper House, which
had been greatly simplified by the illegal aboli-
tion of the old one. It found that there
were about 50 possible kinds, including elec-
five Chambers with preferential, differential,
proportional, contortional and distortiohal
voting, also systems in which one Chamber
elected the other or both of them elected each
of them. It was fighting with these problems
and making no progress when its time ran out
and the old gang came back. Now the Stevens
Government in N.S.W. is rip against a worse
problem. It has to get rid of the old Coun-
cil, as well as to make a new one, and the
jungle of propositions is already in full
tangle.
Preparations for the annual swindle of
extorting from N. S. Wales residents tax on
income they never received were launched at
the beginning of the week. The swindle in its
most outrageous form is outlined in these
Directions to Assist (!) Taxpayers :
UNEMPLOYMENT RELIEF TAX.
In addition to income liable to N.S.W. State
income tax, income derived by a resident from
sources outside the State is subject to this tax.
“Sources outside the State” includes sources in
any country or in any State, whether inside or
outside Australia.
N. S. Wales is not a sovereign State, 'and,
defective as the Commonwealth Constitution
is on vital points—as the new-State people
are finding out —it is very doubtful whether
this robbery would stand the test of a High
Court or Privy Council appeal. But it
might ruin a man to challenge it, so victims
either pay the Is. in the £ demanded—on
income which, if derived, say, from Victoria,
has already borne two Federal taxes rising
to 9/6 in the £, and two State taxes —or go
elsewhere. People who can choose their place
of residence are increasingly going elsewhere.
This helps to explain the crowding of out-
ward-bound boats which were nearly empty
in the first depression year, and the loss of
people by emigration reported by the Gov-
ernment Statistician—72oo last year.
Though Maoriland abolished its provin-
cial Governments in 1876, its customs legis-
lation does not yet apply uniformly to Lie
whole Dominion. This was discovered when
the high price of gold tempted people to sell
old jewellery, which w T as melted down for
export. Somebody dug up a law of 1882
under which gold won in the North Island
is subject to a duty of 2s. 6d. per ounce
if exported from that island. As it is prac-
tically impossible to prove that any gold
it is sought to export wasn’t won in the North
Island, the duty is payable on all gold that
goes out through Wellington and Auckland.
So most of the gold trade now passes through
Lyttelton, in the South, where there is no
duty.
In 1931 the world’s steam- and motor-ships
under construction amounted to 1,400,000
tons, a decline of 916,000 tons com-
pared with 1930, and 504,000 tons was
the decline in British shipbuilding. In
1932 the shipping lying idle in home ports
was set down at 11,392,000 tons, which was
5.174,000 tons more than in 1930. The Old
Man in London, who laid up 2,398,000 tons
of his modern shipping in the two years, was
again the biggest loser; the U.S.A., which
laid up 1,025,000 tons of its shipping in the
same time, was second in the smash. These
are two of the reasons why the Old Man
decided that "Freetrade has ceased to be a
paying policy.
“Sydney has been excluded from the boundaries of
new States, as drawn up by their projectors.”
OVERGROWN YOUTH: "Wot about me?”
SKIPPER: “You go and have a game with
yourself
Maoriland, which in the last nine months
has spent £lOO,OOO on a subsidy of 11s. per
ton to help farmers to buy fertilisers, has
decided to continue this assistance for an-
other 12 months. At the same time the Gov-
ernment is keeping an eye on prices, and
before it renewed the subsidy it insisted
that super., which jumped ss. a ton last
February, owing to the rise in the dollar
conversion rate on American sulphur, should
come down 2s. 6d. a ton. Under the
same influence the price of ammoniated
super, has been reduced 2s. 6d. per tou
below its level when the subsidy started.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Whittington”: Adelaide, acording to tin*
“S. M. Herald’s” special correspondent in
the Holy City, is not only the oldest muni-
cipality in Australia, but is “unique among
our capital cities in that its mayor is elected
by the citizens and not by the members of
the council.” There is no uniqueness in
this, however, for Perth has always followed
the same practice. It doesn’t always work
well; it has even been known to lend itself
to base attempts to poke fun at the ancient
and honorable office of mayor. Some 30
years ago a very weighty and pompous citi-
zen of Perth, who had expected a walk-over,
was horrified to learn at the last moment
that certain humorists had arranged to
nominate the town bellman as his opponent.
The bellman, a voluble Irishman, was quite
willing to be nominated; indeed he was
rather pleased with the idea. In the end
there was some hurried negotiation and the
bellman was bought off with a fiver. A joke
of that sort is obviously impossible when
the Mayor is elected by the council from
its own exclusive field.
“Oxmead”: A quaint story of attempted
atonement comes from Albury (N-S.W.).
The scene was a church where Bishop Rad-
ford, of Goulburn, preached a powerful ser-
mon attacking the State lottery, and
two of his hearers (sex not stated)
were so conscience-stricken that tliev
incontinently threw away their tickets,
which were afterwards found in the pew
they had occupied. The story ends there,
presumably because there was no more moral
to be conveyed, but it seems to me that ii
breaks off at the most interesting stage.
What became of the tickets is left to con-
jecture. Was the verger ordered to' burn
them? After all, they are only evidences of
a transaction between Whiddon and his eus
tomers, and if they won or should win prizes
i! probably wouldn’t be difficult to prov-
ownership, despite their destruction. Or did
tin' repentant, speculators mean them as a
gift for the church, and seek to make expia-
tion for their offence by this method, since
they could hardly put them into the collec
tion-plate? In that case the churchwardens
would be faced with a knotty problem if a
wad of lottery money happened to come their
way as the result of a sermon denouncing
lotteries.
* * * *
“Amateur Bootlegger”: Those potent
“temperance” drinks (B. 27/7/’32) are not
peculiar to M.L. In Queensland, especially
in the western districts, home-made hop beer is
a favorite beverage. Years ago the St. George
country was famous for its hop beer, and
the town itself produced a brew which, when
mixed with gin. was one of the most insidi-
ous beverages the writer has encountered in
an experience ranging from South African
dop to pinky. A serpent entered this Eden
in the .shape of a Queensland excise officer—
this was in pre-Federation days—and in no
time all the publicans and many other citi-
zens of St. George were up for illegal brew-
ing or some charge of the kind. The sleuth
then swooped on the stations, but the bush
telegraph had forestalled him there. Methods
of putting the kick in varied, but that in
favor with writer’s circle was the addition
of a small amount of rice and a handful of
raisins to a cask of the usual hop and sugar
brew. It was good stuff with no aftermath,
and it was certainly comforting in the
extreme.
“Stiletto”: A
statement by a
fashion journal
that women are
d: manding the
old-fashioned liat-
p u of six oi-
seven inches in
length to fasten
on the new “tin-
hat” models will
bring apprehen-
sion to the breast
of many old
enough to recall
pre-war horrors.
In the days be-
fore the bob and
the shingle came
to his rescue,
mere man went iti
peril of an acci-
dental jab from
this weapon when-
ever he entered a
crowded tram or
train or ventured
down a thronged
.street. It wasn't
always mischance,
either, as the con-
stable who ran in
a vinous lady fre-
quently found to
his cost. The ex-
periences endured
by some of the
fat and stately
London bobbies in the days when it was
their painful duty to arrest suffragettes
were harrowing.
**. * *
“Uramao”: A disgruntled member of the
crew of a windjammer in the north of Maori-
land adopted a new way of getting home on
the skipper. The Old Man, who is some-
thing of a sport, has an elk with nose out-
stretched for his vessel’s figurehead. . He
loves to parade the bridge on entering the
ports and watch the eyes of admiration
turned on his trim-looking craft. The other
day, as the vessel slowly swung into the
wharf, there was a roar of laughter from
the loungers. Puzzled at the demonstration
the skipper looked over the side and beheld
a bunch of carrots suspended a few inches
from the elk’s nose.
* * * *
“Tuart” : N. S. Wales has a long list of
“unsolved mysteries,” as they are called,
and the Cremorne poisoning case has boon
added to it, the Coroner characterising it as
the most baffling affair in his experience.
Yet the Wcstralian detectives were faced
with a knottier problem when they found
a few charred bones and a bit of a dental
plate in a remote part of their immense
re gion ; and they solved it. to the confusion
0 f Mr.’“Snowy” Rowles. The central figure
j n the Cremorne case was a young woman
in comfortable circumstances, married, with
one child. On affectionate terms with her
husband, though they occupied separate
rooms, she had made a will leaving him all
her property, which was considerable, and
naming him sole executor. There was
another inmate of the, house, a boarder, in-
vited into it in the first place by the hus-
band, and so friendly with the wife that
he used to take her to the pictures. The
boarder was in the habit of getting up first
and making tea and toast. About 6.30 a.m.
on July 5, however, the lady entered his
room, saying “I’ve beaten you to it this
morning.” Ten minutes later she came
back ; she had taken a seidlitz powder, she
said, and it was lumpy, did not fizz pro-
perly and tasted bitter. H'e put a drop op
SO THAT’S ALL RIGHT.
DAUGHTER: “I think before I consent to marry Percy he should ask you, as I have
no father.”
MOTHER: “He did; but I didn’t want Percy.”
his tongue and it was so bitter that he
went to the bathroom and washed liis mouth
out. Next he took tea and toast to the hus-
band, who the previous night had gone to
vue Siadium and returned to find his wife
and his friend sitting by the dining-room
fire. Presently the woman complained of
being ill, and the boarder gave her mustard
and water. The husband, still in bed, heard
her cry out “I’m losing the use of my legs,"
got up, carried her to her room and rang
for the family doctor. The latter came
promptly, but the woman died in his car- —
of strychnine poisoning. Yet the police
found no strychnine in the house, the hus-
band and the boarder swore that they had
never been possessed of any, the seidlitz
powders were bought in a sealed box. and it
was shown to be humanly impossible for
poison to get into the powders at the manu-
facturer's. One feature that favors the
theory of suicide is that, in the half-hour or
so that elapsed between the fatal draught
and death, the woman blamed no one. She
was of a “rather excitable” nature, and it
might be useful to inquire if her mind had
been excited by anything she had read lately
or seen at the pictures.
“F.S.”: Protests have been lately raised
in Melbourne over the alleged desecration of
the city's beauty by sky signs. One news-
paper writer describes these lights as “mak-
ing the night hideous.” It is true that
they are mostly employed to emphasise the
superior virtues of somebody's toothpaste and
suchlike utilitarian objects. But if people
would let their minds sleep and give their
eyes a fair chance, they would find a new
world of instinctive delight had been opened
to them. Thus viewed, Flinders-street has
become a fairy thoroughfare, full of charac-
ter, color and variety. The plane trees
take on all sorts of magical qualities. Tin'
city’s bosom is roped with pearls, studded
PROVOKING.
“Did you enjoy your car drive last night?”
“Not much. Every time something went wrong with the engine there was somebody
else there.”
with rubies and diademed with greenstones.
It used to looked like a worn-out hag sit-
ting in sackcloth and ashes and meditating
oh the fall in the prices of staple commo-
dities. Probably only the artist who lias
trained his eye to the fullest degree of
objectivity can get all the instinctive enjoy-
ment the spectacle of a modern city at night-
time provides; but there is no reason why
the ordinary citizen shouldn’t recover some
of the faculty, of which the movies and
the photographic sections of the dailies have
deprived him.
“Whitehall”: “The ambition of Super-
intendent Mackay,” said the “Sun” recently,
“is .to give to the Sydney force a status com-
parable to that enjoyed by Scotland Yard.”
One of his methods is to insist on every
member of the force “taking up some form
of sport to ensure that his waistline does
not exceed normal athletic limits.” The
London bobby has achieved the respect of
tne world and the love of his fellow-country-
men on diametrically opposite lines. I doubt
if you will find a more portly body of men,
for their years, in the world than the Metro-
politan Constabulary. Dignity and amiability
are their strong suits. They are trained
intensively to be good-mannered and helpful,
especially to the old and to children. It is
an axi.m at Scotland Yard that no police-
man with a bad temper lasts long. They are
not expected to be combatants, which is why
they are not chosen for athleticism and not
issued with revolvers. Diplomacy is then-
job. and when riots start and genial argument
is of no further avail they are pushed into
the background and replaced by the Guards.
I have seen it happen several times in my
life; the last was during the general strike,
when the military took charge at all the real
danger-points. The chief reason why Aus-
tralian policemen are not as popular with
crowds as they, might be is that they arc too
much like soldiers —too young, too lean, too
energetic and too ready to throw their weight
about, verbally and physically.
“X.S.” : There
was a curious
duel between a
suspect and a con-
stable at Fern
Tree Gully (Vic.).
The policeman
came up with his
man near the rail-
way station, and
a chase ensued.
It hadn’t pro-
ceeded far when
the. fugitive drew
the pistol from his
pocket and took
a pot shot at his
pursuer over his
shoulder. Some-
thing must have
gone wrong with
the elevation or
direction, for, much to the policeman s astoii-
ishment, the shooter dropped m bis tracks
with a portion of Ins head blown oft. tie is
now recovering in hospital.
SONG OF THE SINAI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[August 4 is the 36th anniversary of the
Battle of Romani.]
Mates of the desert, the years have rolled
and .sundered the ties in twain
That bound us together in days of old, and
only the dreams remain ;
Only the dreams and a vague unrest from
the years that have fled so fast;
Like the sunset glory that gilds the west is
the glory that gilds the past.
Fervent and strong was the faith we felt
when our youthful hearts beat high,
And we rode to the jingle of spur and belt
o’er the sands of the Sinai.
Do you remember that moonless hush on
the white Romani sand,
When the Moslems came with a sudden rush
and tackled us hand-to-hand?
Over the sandhills, wave on wave, they came
ere the break of dawn ;
little quarter we got or gave as we met with
our bayonets drawn.
“Allah!” they yelled, and the echoes wok-:
to the Moslem battle cry,
And Mausers rattled and Maxims spoke on
the sands of the Sinai.
On the hoof-stirred hillocks we came to
grips, as the sun rose flaming red,
And some went west with a curse on their
lips, and some with a prayer half-said.
But we smashed their centre and turned
their flank, and drove them o’er ridge
and tel,
And the day was won ere the red sun sank
and the evening shadows fell.
By ridge and hillock the dead lay strewn,
anil we left them there to lie,
And rode by the light of a crescent moon
o’er the sands of the Sinai.
Branded and burned by the desert suns,
drenched by the desert dew.
Ever we followed the sound of the guns o’er
wastes where the wells were few.
Mirages, daneng beifore our eyes, mocked
us where’er we trod,
THE SORT OF FELLOW HE IS.
“And what kind of a chap is lie?"
“He’s one of those fellows who pat you on the back before your
face and punch you in the eye the moment your back is
turned.”
And death struck down from the brazen
skies as swift as the wrath of God.
There were horses faltered and riders fell
when the lead went whistling by,
And shrapnel blew like a breath from Hell
o’er the sands of the Sinai.
Oh, there were nights when we cursed the
foe, and bosom and brain grew numb,
When silence reigned and the moon sank
low- and we prayed for day to come,
When our hopes grew- faint and our goal
seemed far, and our eyes grew misty
and dim,
Till the dawn , wind woke and the morning
star rose over the skyline’s rim.
But our faith revived and our fears took
flight when the dawn suffused the sky.
And we rode away as the sun shone bright
o’er the sands of the Sinai.
Mates of the desert, the tale is told, and the
last crusade is o’er,
And the faith that gladdened our hearts of
old is gone to return no more.
The seas are wide and the roads are long
that sever us far apart,
But somewhere or other a random song may
lighten a weary heart,
A lilting song of the days that were when
our youthful hearts beat high,
And we rode to the jingle of belt and spur
o’er the sands of the Sinai.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


‘ Clarence Cafeteria - ’: The horror and dis-
may over these mystery hikes are not confined
to theological circles. The other Sunday
1200 hikers set out from Melbourne under
the auspices of a broadcasting station and
the Choo-choo Club and, disembarking at
MEETING HIM HALF WAY.
MILL: “He wants to give me a roadster, but I want a nice string of pearls.”
JILL: “Why not compromise, dear? Let him have his way about the roadster if you
can have your way about the pearls.”
Dandenong, tramped to Beaconsfield. By an
unhappy accident, the Wallaby Club, Mel-
bourne’s most exclusive pedestrian associa-
tion, had chosen the same route. Its members
suddenly discovered they had merged their
identity in the larger entity of the Choo-
ohoo Clubites. Heroic efforts to maintain
their formation were frustrated by one of
the most sacred rules of the club, namely
that any one couple shall only walk together
for half an hour, after which they must
break off their conversation and seek another
companion. Some of the Choo-choos made
the most of the situation, and a flapper in
shorts had the perfectly thrilling experience
of trudging along beside a learned Judge.
“per Jong”: A curious error crept into
a Melbourne obituary notice of Plumer, viz.,
that he commanded Australian units in
South Africa “only for a few weeks.” With
Australian and M.L. mounted troops “Polly”
raged up and down what is now the Union
for two years, and at least one Victorian
regiment, the Fifth Mounted Rifles, was
among his troops. For the most part, how-
ever. he showed a predilection for Queens-
landers and Maorilanders, three regi-
ments of each having been at one time or
another under his banner. One corps of his
made history of a sort —the Bushveld Car-
bineers, in which Morant and Han-
cock figured so tragically. That, however,
was after they had left the column and
were stationed as an independent unit in
the Pietersburg district.
“X.N.0.” : “Gunner’s Mate” (B. 27/7/’32)
seems to suggest that the change from the
title “Purser” to “Paymaster” with commis-
sioned rank in the R.N. is of recent date.
It was in 1814 that the Purser was granted
commissioned rank with, but after, a lieu-
tenant. The change to “Paymaster” came
in 1852, and the executive . titles, “Pay-
master-lieutenant,” etc., were conceded in
1918. The last straw which led to this
departure was a war-time incident, when
an exalted military officer at the War Office
had occasion to telephone the head of the
Code and Cypher Department of the Admir-
alty. His call was answered by “Staff Pay-
master Brown,” The brigadier demanded to
be put. on to someone in authority, as he
didn’t intend to discuss his matter with ‘"a
clerk.” A “Staff Paymaster” is
now a “Paymaster-Lieutenant-Commander, ’
which should appease any apoplectic Gen-
eral.
“Pawang”: A state-
ment by G. W. Holland,
president of Vic. R.S.L.,
that an abnormal number
of soldiers’ children born
since the war suffer from
nervous diseases and chest
complaints, believed to be
due to the service of their
fathers overseas, got a
prompt rejoinder from the
medical profession. One
specialist says that in his
experience soldiers’ chil-
dren are healthier on tin l
whole than other children,
and attributes this to the
fact that their fathers,
having benefited by mili-
tary discipline, passed the
benefit on by seeing that
their offspring had plenty
of exercise and fresh air.
Even if nervous disease
were prevalent amongst
soldiers’ children, it could
not be due to heredity, as
nervous complaints are not
inherited, though a parent
whose own nerve has been
shaken by his war experi-
ence might pass on a
sense of ' frustration and
insecurity to his child by
precept and example. A
tendency to tuberculosis
can be inherited, but not
the disease itself.
“Miro”: The schoolboy, too, has been
known to martyr himself for science (B.
27/7/’32). An inspector was visiting a
Maoriland out-back school, and during the
luncheon spell took a stroll round a field
adjoining the schoolhouse. He was puzzled
to note at the far end a crowd of youngsters
all straining their necks in silence towards
one boy, who presently leapt into the air
and then fled schoolwards, followed by a
shouting mob, one of whom cannoned into
the inspector as he ran. The inspector
l ighted himself, seized the offender, and
demanded an explanation. “Please, sir,”
stuttered the small boy, “it’s nature study
when we go in this afternoon, and Billy
Brown’s just been getting some bees to sting
him.” The heroic William, with a swollen
hand and a bunged-up eye, was exhibit A
in the lesson that followed,
* * * *
“Integer”: If that uncompromising pre-
cisian Judge Curlewis had been entrusted
with the tin-hare investigation what inces-
sant demands for explanations of cant terms
and phrases would have come from the
Bench! It is very different with Judge
H’alse Rogers, who not only understands
slang but likes to see it used correctly. Thus
his Honor to a witness who expressed his
opinion that somebody had tried to double-
cross him
“The word ‘double-cross’ indicates that both parties
were in a crooked business to start with and that
then one of them went crooked on the other. Did
yon realise that you were in a crooked business?”
Witness, of course, said he didn’t, and left
the impression of having used the word
merely as a synonym for swindling. It is
refreshing to have a Judge who can go
straight to the root of a vernacularism upon
which even Webster supplies no information,
* * * *
“W.J.N.”: A recent paragraph in the
“S.M.H.” about the Macquarie lighthouse
at South Head reminds me that in
an. early number of The Bulletin, over
52 years ago, the cartoon showed a lighthouse
suspended between South and North Heads,
with a tug-o’-war in progress between the
£°’k on the rival headlands, the South Head
winning. I can speak with some authority,
because my first job was on the printing
machine which turned out the infant news-
paper in the works of Lee and Ross. Market-
street; the site is now occupied by Sargent’s,
** . * *
T arleigh : Ihe old-time rugged-looking
Premier, with a smack of the bush about
him, is becoming a memory of the past. It
may be that the press photographer is partly
to blame; anyway the average Labor leader
is quite as likely to be the last word in sar-
torial spruceness as the opponent whom he
girds at as the spokesman of the banks and
big business. A picture still lingers in my
mind of Bigjohn Forrest, in the days when
he was still a Premier, haranguing a gold-
fields meeting. Forrest was garbed in the
outer habiliments of civilisation, but he
wore a belt (possibly a habit formed in liis
exploring days) instead of braces, and when
SUCH SILLY QUESTIONS THEY ASK.
BANK CLERK (taking particulars from young woman opening account for her child)'
And do you remember the date the child was born?”
YOUNG MOTHER: “Remember it? Will I ever forget it!”
it sagged now and again to expose a generous
section of shirt between pants and vest he
looked every inch a man of the people—
“no bloomin’ toff about him,” remarked one
miner appreciatively. A few years later,
when some of Federation’s early notables
were visiting the timber districts, somebody
induced Forrest and Lyne to shed their coats
and attack a fallen karri tree with a cross-
cut saw*. It is impossible to picture Stevens
and Argyle at opposite ends of a crosscut
saw carving a forest giant into handy
lengths.
“Zurich”: Hungary seems about the un-
safest country in the world for unwanted
husbands. A year or two ago there was a
sensational trial of a woman whose death-
dealing services had been largely availed of
by wives desirous of becoming widows; she
was convicted and duly executed. Now her
grisly achievements, according to the cable-
man, have been thrown into the shade by
charges levelled against another “professional
murderess,” a tall and exceptionally strong
woman known as “Smoking Peter.” This
lady’s methods had none of the subtlety asso-
ciated with the removal of husbands in
mediaeval Italy, when the poisoning business
was almost reduced to a science; she deftly
noosed her victims and hanged them to handy
balconies or trees, leaving it to be inferred
that they had committed suicide. It was
apparently the rise in the number of pre-
sumed suicides in the district where “Smok-
ing Peter” resided that first awakened sus-
picion, and it. was followed by a confession
from a conscience-stricken frau who had
hired the female thug. It is not clear whether
Peter had a regular tariff for these little
jobs, but on this occasion it is recorded that
her fee was paid partly in farm produce—a
sign of the times in rural Hungary.
“Ben Gunn” : Stowaways are a sore trial
for skippers, but. few would go to,the lengths
of the master of the Norwegian motor-vessel
Brand to get rid of
non-paying passen-
gers. The Brand
cleared Port Adel-
aide for the U.K. on
July 9 with 8000
tons of grain. Three
days later a pair of
perdus came to light,
starved out. The
skipper said little but.
acted with decision,
changing the vessel’s
course. A couple of
mornings later, the
Brand was hove t<>
close to a small strip
of beach which prom-
ised facilities for
landing, and the
stowaways were bun-
dled into a lifeboat
manned by six men
with an assurance
that Albany was only
about 10 miles distant.
There was a heavy
sea running, so the
chief officer, fearing
damage to his boat,
decided that the un-
wanteds had better
swim the last 30
yards to the beach,
which perforce they
did. They made heavy
going of it to Albany,
which they found to
be nearer 40 miles
than 10, but with the
assistance of a kindly.
settler or two reached
there in safety. It is
a nice point as to
what the Norwegian
skipper might have let himself in for if either
of those stowawmys had been drowned ; in any
case, it appears that landing stowaways
without official notification is a breach of
the Customs Act. But as the Brand never
called at a Westralian port there was little
chance of anyone being brought to book.
“Rouge Dragon’ : That yarn about the
Westralian journalist scornfully refusing an
"ordinary” knighthood (B. 20/7/32) is a
reminder that this rank is actually the
oldest of all the orders of chivalry. There
is a D’sraeli story which aptly, illustrates
that point. When Edward Levy, of the
London “Telegraph”—the family is now in
the peerage with the title of Burnham —
was knighted long ago, Dizzy attended a
dinner in his honor. .Some of the speakers
went so far as to hint that a mere knight-
hood was a paltry distinction for Levy’s
services. Dizzy, however, congratulated him
on having received an honor “which was
thought a distinction for Philip Sydney and
a fitting recognition for Walter Raleigh.”
* * * *
“Wings”: Talking of queer army headgear
(B. 20/7/’32), don't forget the old Light
Infantry shako, which has come back, after
many years of banishment, for full-dress
occasions. This is a cap-like top-piece very
like that once worn by the N.S.W. police,
with the addition of a “pom-pom,” a neat
little contraption like a colored golf ball, on
its peg. The pom-pom is inclined rakishly for-
ward from the front elevation of the shako
and is distinctly saucy in effect. An English
paper sent me the other day showed a group
of Highland Light Infantry officers off to
attend a Royal Levee in London. In addition
to the headgear, and the tunic known as the
“doublet” worn by all Scottish regiments,
the party wore the flo\Ving plaid over the
left shoulder.
“H.R.”: Khan Bahadur Sikander Hyatt
Khan is not quite the first native to
be placed in charge of an Indian Province
(B. 27/7/’32). That distinction goes to
(lie late Lord Sinha. who became the first
Indian peer at the time he was made Gover-
nor of Bihar and Orissa. T*e suave type
of super-babu, Sinha was bureaucracy’s best,
bet when in the miasmatic post-war years
it became expedient to show the Westmin-
ster politicians that their “reform” talk was
THE DEBUT.
FOND MOTHER: “Yes, doesn't she cry tunefully. Harold and I
are so elated about it, but wc can’t decide yet whether it
is soprano or contralto.”
[An unpublished drawing by the late Alt Vincent—dated 1903.]
leading some whore. He and liis family were
Westernised to the extent that his daughter
in 1927 was respondent in a Calcutta divorce
action. Khan Bahadur Sikander Hyatt
Khan is Sinha’s antithesis. Incidentally,
the “Sikander” in his name proves that the
PathanS still remember Alexander the Great.
A PRESSING NECESSITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It was contended on behalf of the Clerks’ Union
mat in the . N.SAV. basic wage an allowance should
oe made tor the cost of five pressings yearly of coats
and overcoats and ten pressings' of trousers.”
What should his guerdon be whose tool of
trade
Was once denoted by the goosequill gray -
But thats symbolic of the old brigade,
A fountain-pen’s the implement to-day
VMiat should it be? Let learned Judges
weigh
fihe pros and cons and hear opposing sides ;
n -Wnl' ponder, ere their verdict they essay,
the figure that is charged for ‘pressing
strides.
The lumper to his job may go arrayed
- ] dungarees that no such frills display ;
k.C. s or editors may make the grade
In pants whose sloppiness no words
portray;
The round-the-houses of an M.L.A.
May show their owner smoothing-irons
derides,
But month by month the clerk must needs
defray
The little bill for pressing coats and strides.
Has lie no wife to lend a woman’s aid
In rendering her liege’s duds 0.K.?
You ask. But then lie may have wed a maid
Who owns no liking for the laundry lay.
Couldn’t he fix them up himself? Nay.
nay.
For work like this another craft provides.
It’s cuiquC' mum, as the classics say.
You wouldn’t have a scrivener pressing-
strides.
Judges, who fix the minimum of pay
For chaps who push a pen, or might, or
may,
With only life’s insistent needs for
guides,
Add to the list that you’ve already made
One other item that you can’t evade.
The regular account for pressing strides.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


3# NEW
SCREEN /or a
CASEMENT WINDOW
The B. R. G. Rolscreen, rolling up or down like a
blind, completely eliminates the unsightliness and
difficulty of the ordinary wooden-framed screen.
Harmonising with the surrounding woodwork,
practically invisible, having all the hygienic advan-
tages of ABSOLUTELY INSECT-PROOF wire, it
i* the only way of satisfactorily screening a
casement window.
Permanently installed, practically indestructible,
they will outlast a dozen of the old wooden screens
as well as adding beauty and convenience to any
window. For your home, old or new, for any
size of window —casement or otherwise—the
B.R.G. Rolscreens are a CHEAP investment.
Write now for our free booklet giving completest
details.
JOHN REID
AT
BRISBANE
HALL
SHOW.
B.R.G. ROLSCREENS
(Patented throughout the World).
Manufactured by the Australian Reinforced Concrete Eng. Co. Pty., Ltd.,
430 CHANCERY LANE, MELBOURNE, C. 1.; 14 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
For complete details and prices s eaU on or write to —
MELBOURNE: Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd. ADELAIDE: Elder
Smith & Co., Limited. PERTH: The Structural Eng. Co. of W.A.,
Limited. SYDNEY: Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd. BRISBANE: Dyne
and Co., Ltd. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington—Derbyshire’s & Co.;
John Dutbie & Co., Ltd. Dunedin—Donald Stuart & Co.
0
li.
*
H
§§
11.
?
€
-?Ti
JS.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some August birthdays :
Justice Halse Rogers (N.S.W.), 49, Coadjutor-
Bishop Dixon (Bris.), 63, and medico-knight Joseph
Verco (Adel.), 81, on Ist; It. B. McComas
(Melb.), 70, and S. 11. Smith (formerly N.S.W.
Director of Education), 67, on 2nd; knight Edward
Miller (Melb.), 84, and Rev. Dr. Borland (Scots
Church, Melb.), 66, on 3rd; W.A. Minister Jack
Scaddan, 56, and Rev. Dr. Dey (“Christian World”),
84, on 4th; Norman Jolly (W.A. State Forests
Commissioner), 50, on sth; Gov.-Gen. Isaacs, 77,
and knight Robt. M. McAnderson (Syd.), 65, on
6th; poet E. J. Brady, 63, on 7th; E: T. Fisk
(wireless), 46, and baronet Alex. Cockburn-Campbell
(W.A.), 60, on Bth ; N.S.W. Chief Justice Sttreet, 69, on
9th; Speck’s Chief-Justice Nicholls, 64, on 11th;
knight Frank Fox (formerly of The Bulletin), 58,
Keith Murdoch (Melb. “Herald”), 47, and E. M.
Baker, M.A. (The King’s Sch., Parramatta), 58, on
12th; Prof. Morris Miller (Speck), 51, and Major-
Gen. Nevill Smyth, V.C; (Vic.), 64, on 14th; Prof.
Elliot Smith, F.R.S., 61, Bishop Baker (Bendigo),
50, and novelist Erie Cox (“Out of the Silence”),
59, on 15th; Dr. H. Herman (Melb.), 57, and
poetess Mary Gilmore, on 16th; Frank Anstey,
M.H.R , 67, and Nettie Palmer, on 18th; Archbishop
Wright, 71, on 19th; ex-S. Aus. Governor Tom
Bridges, 61, Jas. Fraser (formerly Chief Rlys. Com.
of N.S.W.), 71, Prof. Laver (Melb.), 66, and John
Garlick (Syd.), 57, on 20th; Vic. Methodist minister
A. T. Holden, 66, poet Will Ogilvie, 63, and Flight-
Capt. Goble (R.A.A.F.), 41, on 21st; Judge Curlewis
(N.S.W.), 63, on 22nd; Fed. Attorney-Gen. Latham,
55, on 25th; Bishop Ash (Rockhampton), 50, knight
Prof, T. R. Lyle, F.R.S. (Melb.), 72, and Prof. W.
A. Osborne (Melb.), 59, on 26th; Justice Dwyer
(W.A.), 57, and Prof. Angus (St. Andrew’s Col.,
Syd.), 51, on 27th; Vance Palmer, 47, on 28th;
architect-knight John Sulman (Syd.), 83, Brig.-Gen.
Cannan (Q.), 50, J. Spencer Brunton (Syd.), 71,
and J. W. Pennington (Vic.), 62, on 29th; ex-Gov.
de Chair, 68, and ex-Prineipal Ronald Maclntyre,
69, on 30th; R. Ewing (Fed. Taxation Com.), 61,
Ambrose Pratt (David Syme’s biographer), 58, and
Chas. R. Long, M.A. (formerly of Vic. Education
Dept.), 72, on 31st.
The last three years have been full ones
for W. J. Cleary, whom Bavin made Chief
Commissioner of N.S.W. Railways at £5OOO
a year in Nov., 1929. Cleary has had only
two employers—Tooth’s and the State; he
started as a boy of 14 with the brewery firm
and climbed to the very top by sheer industry
and commercial ability. As a railway adminis-
trator he started at the top and found the
going much harder. He had to effect econo-
mies, and though he did not spare his owu
salary he incurred the enmity of Lang, who
took the opportunity of re-organising offices
so as to be able to “remove” Cleary. Lang’s
protege Goode, who had been appointed
W. J. CLEARY, Chief Railway Commis-
sioner in N. S. Wales till his appoint-
ment was cancelled by Lang. He has
now succeeded Lang’s nominee, C. J.
Goode, as Chief Transport Commis-
sioner.
head of the Transport service, having
now resigned in consequence of the report
of a Royal Commission, Cleary has been
restored to his own again, and something
more, and the choice will be generally
approved. Besides being a brewery manager,
Cleary has been a University lecturer in
the economics that should be applied to busi-
ness, and all know him for a tireless worker,
Cleon Dennis, dead at 44, was second
engineer in the Sydney during her affair with
the Emden, and served throughout the war in
her. A N.S.W. native, he was educated at
Sydney Tech, and graduated in engineering
from Sydney Uni. Joining the R.A.N., he
was sent to England to supervise the erec-
tion of the Sydney’s engines. After the
war he went to Jervis Bay Naval College
as instructor in engineering. Resigning from
the service, he was for a time assistant
censor of motion pictures in Sydney; at the
time of his death he was supervising the
instalment of a large electric-light plant
in Toowoomba.
During the seven years that the late Wil-
liam McPherson was Treasurer in Vic. Gov-
ernments (1917-23 and 1928-29) the State
always had surpluses on revenue account.
With his own money he was generous and
even lavish. H'e gave £25,000 to establish
the City Domestic Economy College, named
after his late wife, and the same amount to
The late WILLIAM McPHERSON, Premier
of Victoria in .1928-29 and Treasurer
in other years.
build the community wing of Queen Vic-
toria Hospital, Melb. West, while Hawthorn
is dotted with his benefactions. No Parlia-
mentarian was better liked, but leadership
was not his forte. His express wish for
private burial banned acceptance of the
Vic. Ministry’s offer of a State funeral. .
Major Bland, passed out at 77, was
born at Newcastle (N.S.W.), but most of
his life was spent at Bega, where he started
legal practice nearly half a century ago.
Besides being mayor of the town for 13
years he was active in local movements; he
commanded the Bega Mounted Rifles for
years and made it one of the smartest troops
in the State —or in Australia. N.S.W. Police
Commissioner Childs learned some of his
law as a young man in Major Bland’s
office.
Keith Bowman, the pastoralist, of Poltal-
loch station, S. Aus., has left an estate of
£136,000, with some handsome bequests to
managers and other business associates. His
motor-boats go to an unmarried daughter,
and his racehorses to a son-in-law.
Krantz, the man who tried to get a tin-
hare license for Broken Hill, and whose
failure was described at, great length before
the Royal Commissioner in Sydney last week,
was one of a family which came allegedly
from Russia 30 years ago and settled at
Broken Hill. They started hawking vege-
tables, then opened a back-street store, next
got into the main street and began gather-
ing in properties, and afterwards set them-
selves up in affluence in Adelaide. Only one
of them remains in Broken Hill: he is the
town’s “financier.”
Maxwell Jacobs, who collects the Doctor of
Philosophy degree for a thesis on aerial
forest-surveying, is an Adelaide boy, and had
a science degree before getting forestry ex-
perience at the Waite Institute there, Can-
berra and Oxford. He will represent Aus-
tralia at an international flmferonce in
France.
Owen Cox, who died at Nice last week,
aged 68. arrived in M.L. from Wales half a
century ago and became a bank clerk. Poli-
tics and finance were his strong suits. He
made a fortune with .Toe Ward as a meat-
shipper during the second Boor War, having
come to Sydney as chairman of Birt and Co.
just as it began. During the World War
he was a member of the Commonwealth Ship-
ping Board and chairman of the Meat Ship-
ping Committee. H’e collected first a 1v.8.E.
and then a G.B.E. for his services. Cox had
a great admiration for his fellow-countryman
Billy Hughes, was one of the chief movers in
the scheme to raise that famous £25,000, and
became chairman of the Consultative Council
of Hughes’s Nationalist party in 1918. His
health broke down a few years ago and he
retired from business and settled down in
a Monte Carlo flat. Sydney has never known
a rich man With so much zest for the luxu-
ries of life and such a complete knowledge of
how to acouire and use them. He had a
cultivated taste in food, wines and cigars, and
he enjoyed nothing more than to give his
friends the benefit of .it. For one who had
something akin to genius as an organiser and
diplomat he was oddly, futile as a conversa-
tionalist, puns being his staple form of wit.
On the other hand he was an impressive
public speaker and, in spite of his frail
appearance, a most forceful and dignified
chairman.
Arthur McQuitty was best-known to most
Sydneyites who had heard of him by the
many comic stories told at his expense—
chiefly by S. Ure Smith. He was a “char-
acter,” an outstanding personality. And
behind his odd, simple ways lurked the soul
of an artist. McQuitty began as a comp,
on a Geelong paper; then went to Melbourne,
and eventually started a business of his own
in Sydney. He soon established what was
virtually a monopoly of the best Australian
color-printing jobs, and was the printer of
“Art in Australia” and the “Home” from
their inception.
William Goodfellow, elected chairman of
the Ottawa Conference’s Dairy Produce
Committee, is the son of a Waikato (M.L.)
farmer. His bent was towards commerce,
and before he was 30 he was head of. a large
ironmongery business with branches in vari-
ous towns of his native province. He estab-
lished his first little dairy co. in 1909, and
energetically campaigned to demonstrate the
advantages of home-separating, with such
good results that the dairy production of the
Waikato increased twentyfold in a decade.
At the end of that, decade Goodfellow forsook
ironmongering to become managing director of
the large amalgamated group of dairy cos.
that now functions as the N.Z. Co-op. D.
Co. Goodfellow adds to remarkable persua-
sive powers an unerring eye for a good man.
He enticed H, H. Sterling out of the rail-
way service to become manager of the big
dairy co., and Sterling made such a good
showing that the Government took him back
to be general manager of the railways.
Sale and Daylesford (Vic.) have lost
John Hattam, a draper who had carried on
business there and in metropolitan Northcote
for 60 years. H'e came from Cornwall as a
youth. He was one of the pioneers of early
closing in Gippsland.
Joseph Alexander Browne, chairman of the
N. S. Wales Industrial Commission, which is
reviewing the State basic wage, is a scholarly,
silver-haired jurist in his middle fifties.
Adelong (N.S.W.) is his birthplace and his
first job was teaching the young idea at
Grenfell and later at Fort-street, Sydney.
While still a teacher he studied law at Syd-
ney Uni. and in 1904 collected his LL.B.
degree. Judge Beeby, now on the Federal
Arbitration Bench, then plain George Beeby,
of the Labor movement, gave him his first
brief. Joseph read in chambers with the
present Justice Rich, giving special attention
to company law. Various Labor Govern-
ments have employed him. H'e appeared for
the Lang Government in the tussle with
Lyons over the Enforcement Act, and repre-
sented me same interest before various juris-
JUSTICE BROWNE, new chairman of the
N.S.W. Industrial Commission.
dictions in the endeavor to abolish the
Upper House. Jimmy McGowen made
Browne an M.L.C. in 1912, and he remained
a member until Stevens selected him for his
present position. Outside office hours he is
chiefly interested in cricket.
Alan J. Williamson, rep. in Australia of
the Gaumont-Gainsborough film people, first
came to this country in 1910 to produce for
Spencer, and with Raymond Longford, now
of Efftee Films, made several silent pic-
tures, notably “Captain Starlight” and “The
Silver Wedding.” Later he managed the
old Olympia in Melbourne, now Wirth s
Park. During the Great War he was O.C.
of a cinema branch of the R.A.F. He is aii
expert on color cinematography. Williamson s
ALAN J. WILLIAMSON, who is here to
put British pictures on the Australian
map.
firm is nibbling at the idea of producing
talking pictures here, and with this end in
view he has secured some striking scenarios
for submission to his chiefs, notably one by
Betty M. Davies, author of “The Touch
of Silk.” He’s an unusual showman in lots
of ways. He opened a dinner to journalists
at Menzies by saying grace.
Jack Myers had become one of Manly’s
identities when he died there last week. He
was a Jew who left Oxford nearly 32 years
ago with a reputation as a financial and
economic authority. He came to Australia
shortly before the war with credentials from
his friend Lord Burnham, and was a special
writer for the “S. M. Herald” till differences
arose between himself and that journal;. H‘e
carried on as Australian correspondent of
the London “Financial Times” and other
papers in England and the U.S.A. He was
a small, stout, wistful man who never quit-.'
assimilated the Australian atmosphere, and
who was handicapped by a brisk, almost
aggressive, manner that masked a profound
diffidence. He accompanied Lord Burnham
during the tour of the British Press Delega-
tion five years ago.
One of the war-words that didn’t stick was
Furphy—the best story you could think of
when you were paraded for being A.W.L.
Now, very appropriately, the head of the
family which gave the Vic. Digger the word
.—A F. Furphy, of Shepparton —has been
made a J.P. in N. S. Wales; he was one
at home already.
George Morphett, of the old S.A. family
which gave a name to the course where the
Adelaide Cup is run, has brought off a
remarkable double. He has for years been
chairman of directors of Adelaide Milk
Supply Go., which has made the word
“Amscol” locally famous. Now he couples
with dairying a directorship of S.A. Brew-
ing Co., in succession to the late Lance
Stirling.
Dicky Drummond, who died at Coler-
aine (Vic.) the other day, at 77, helped
to build some of the first shops and
houses in the township, where most of
his life was spent. Four of his .relatives
were drowned in the great Coleraine flood
of October, 1870. He well remembered seeing
Adam Lindsay Gordon ride in the Great
Western Steeplechase in the sixties; the
finish for the race was opposite the Drum-
mond homestead.
Henry Barnes, dead recently in Brisbane,
was one of a family widely known on both
sides of the Queensland-N.S.W. border. A
fine type of sportsman, he and his brothers,
one of whom is J. H. Barnes, of Canning
Downs (Q.), were keen breeders of blood
stock and, after the dissolution of the Barnes-
Smith partnership at the famous Gordon
Brook stud near Grafton, he began over
again at Dyraba, near Casino. Well-known
sires there were Repartee, Siege Gun and
Canzone. Colonel Mick Bruxner, Deputy
Premier of N.S.W., is a nephew.
When Ned Hogan ceased to be Vic.
Premier he lost most of the limelight in
which he had been basking in London, and
the arrival of Attorney-General Latham and
Billy Hughes deprived him of what was
left. He is now returning via Canada,
where he is again likely to be neglected
because of the interest centred in Ottawa.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate*
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
Concentrating S Classifying Machines.
F«cd 7ub»
Sorting C^fi
nitphroamr
We are the patentees and
manufacturers of the well-
known Curvilinear Concen-
trating Table suitable for all
classes of ores. We also make
this very efficient cone classi-
fier. Send us you enquiries
for all classes of mining
machinery, including stamp
batteries, shoes and dies,
screens, etc., also Rendrock
and other explosives and
accessories. Send for illus-
trated leaflets and prices.
GUTHRIDGE LTD.
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney.
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
FOR AUGUST,
ON SALE NEXT SATURDAY.
Millions of pounds have been
invested in forestry.
What returns are bondholders likely
to get?
Ottawa and the Market.
Should prices be raised to
1928 levels?
These and many other questions of
vital interest to investors are dis-
cussed in the August issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bcm,etin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
The
WILD CAT
COLUMN
Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne)
Works Written
Divi- Charged Off
dends. to He- Stocks, Re-
Profits. (13 p.c.) venue, etc. serves.
■6 £ £ £ £
June, '24.. 125,385 G 5,000 46,871 5,533 704,234
Premiums on shares £43,528 747,762
15 p.c.
Dec., ’24.. 128,677 82,197 41,743 4,378 748,121
June, ’25.. 105,182 82,500 18,628 5,270 746,905
Dec., >25.. 141,568 82,500 50,603 4,194 751,176
June, ’26.. 113,457 82,500 39,094 3,880 739,159
Dec., ’26.. 134,805 82,500 33,500 11,364 746,600
Premiums on shares, £68,040 .. 814,649
June, ’27.. 105,522 88,125 29,782 Nil 802,254
Premiums on shares, £123,423 . . 925,677
Dec., ’27.. 105,843 97,500 28,374 4,586 901,060
June, ’28.. 124,236 97,500 25,000* Nil 902,796
Dec., ’28.. 121,457 97,500 25,562* Nil 901,191
, 13 p.c.
June, ’29.. 89,356 84,500 Nil Nil 906,047
Dec., ’29... 100.772 84,500 36,184* 3,748 882,387
Profit on sale of land, £13,586 .. 895,973
June, ’30.. 94,328 84,500 22,038* Nil 883,763
Dec., ’30.. 135,380 84,500 50,000* Nil 884,643
•June, ’31.. 126,757 84,500 14,702* Nil 912,198
Dec., ’31.. 107,254 84,500 Nil 934,952
June, ’32.. 102,776 84,500 7,908 Nil 945,320
*old plant written off.
Melbourne consumers were paying 7s. 6d. per
1000 c.f. for gas during the stoppage at
Maitland, a couple of years ago. The charge
was revised in September, 1930, the new
rates ranging from ss. lid. to 7s. 3d. accord-
ing to consumption, and a little further
relief was gained in February last, when
there was an all-round reduction of 2d. per
thousand. But demand continued to fall
away, due partly to the times and partly to
competition from the State Electricity Com-
mission. During the June half of this year
consumption (1849 million cubic feet) was
3 p.c. lighter than for the last half of 1931,
making the contraction 9.4 p.c. over the last
2$ years. The slip in revenue from gas
sales was £42.160, and in the return from
residuals £5980: —
Half Year Half Year
Ended 31/12/’3l. Ended 30/6/’32.
■*- <i r
Per Per
1000c.f. IOOOc.f.
Sales:— s. d. s. d.
Gas .. ..£625,803 6 6J £583,643 6 Si
Residuals, etc. 90,845 0 111 84,865 011
Total ..£716,648 7 61 £668,568 7 24
Manufacturing &
distrib. exes. 456,811 4 9i 420,164 4 61
Other charges. . 152,583 1 7 145,569 1 61
Total outgo £609,394 6 44 £565,733 6 11
Thus all but £4479 of the shrinkage in
revenue was offset by savings in exes., mainly
manufacturing and distributing costs, which
were got back £36,647, or 3d. per 1000 c.f.
The £102,776 netted was enough for the co.
to repeat the nominal 13 p.c. div. (share pre-
miums make it worth only 6.1 p.c. on all
scrip sold during the last 50-odd years),
spend £7908 on extensions and improve-
ments and send £10,367 to reserves, raising
them to £945,320, of which £819,201 is
share premiums. No specific allowance is
made for depreciation; much, therefore,
depends upon whether expenditure on repairs
and renewals (£161,761 during the last
half) proves to be sufficient to cover actual
wear and tear as well. It has not been
sufficient to cover obsolescence, on which
account £173,486 was struck off during the
3-A years to June 30, 1931.
In front of the £1,300,000 of share capital,
there is £1,997,300 of debenture money, cost-
ing the co. from 4 p.c. to 8 p.c. The Yic.
Financial Emergency Act provides for a
cut of 4s. 6d. in the £ in the interest on these
debentures, provided the rate is not reduced
below 5 p.c. The Court recently decided
that the Act did not apply to debentures
on the co.’s London register (£392,000 at
54 p.c.), and that while it did apply to those
on the Melbourne register, the co. was not
legally restrained from paying the full
amount of interest originally covenanted to
be paid. The board, therefore, lias decided
to pay the full original rates on all its
debentures, which are trustee investments in
Victoria.
During the last six months £28,900 of
debentures was repaid, and £9709 was spent
on plant, etc., and charged to capital, rais-
ing the book value of the undertaking to
£4.016,671 at .1 une 30. The unexpended
balance of capital account was then £99,829.
There was £296.316 coming to sundry credi-
tors. Cash, investments and book debts
totalled £425,855 ; stocks and stores, £180,909.
At £lO 10s. the £5 paid shares return 6.2
p.c. Legislative control of divs. and prices
remains in the air, as it has done for years
past; but it is a point that should not be
overlooked.
Wilsons (N.Z.) Portland Cement, Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 37,171 5 p.c. = 80,000 7,171 18,367
1922.. 42,156 6i „ „ 37,500 4,656 23,023
1923.. 54,312 7$ „ „ 45,000 9,312 32,335
1924.. 58,116 7.9 „ ~ 47,500 10,616 42,951
1925.. 70,384 8.3 „ „ 50,000 20,384 63,335
1920.. 93,022 10 „ „ 60,000 33,022 96,357
1927.. 94,819 10 „ ~ 60,000 34,819 131,176
1928.. 94,856 10 .. ~ 60,000 34,856 166,032
1929.. 85,049 10 „ 60,000 28,049 194,081
1930.. 91,783 124 „ „ 75,000 16,783 210,864
1931.. 75,833 124 ~ ,> 75,000 833 211,697
1932.. 64,287 10 „ „ 60,000 4,287 215,984
Owing to slackness in building and road-
making, Wilson’s works were shut down
for spells totalling 10 weeks during the
12 months covered by the latest accounts.
The sources and amount of gross in-
come and details of outgo are not
now disclosed; but the year’s net result
(£64,287, including additions to insurance
reserve, now £37,639) fell away £11,546,
making the slip £27,496 since 1930. 81(11,
there was enough to show 10.7 p.c. on capital,
compared with 12.0, 15.3. 14.6 and 15.8 p.c.
back to 1928, when constructional activity
was booming. So, the 2£ p.c, bonus was
dropped, leaving the div. at 10 p.c.
Since 1924 some excellent results have
been shown, and the performance seems to
be every bit as good as it looks. During the
flush years the board took a view, and
fixed assets were strenuously written down.
Over the last dozen years £254,714 more
than was spent was struck off buildings,
plant, quarries, etc., visible reserves bene-
fited bv close on £200,000, and shareholders
averaged 9.2 p.c. p.a. But the past should
not be taken as a reliable guide to the imme-
diate future.
The co, amalgamated Wilsons Portland
Cement and another concern in 1918, since
when capital has remained unchanged at
£600,000. In 1921 industrial troubles in the
coal trade so hampered activities, that the
co. purchased the Northern Coal Co.’s mine
at Ilikurangi, and then floated it into a. sub-
sidiary, Wilsons Collieries, Ltd. This hold-
ing appeared at £49,993 at March, 1930; it
has since been included with Government
.stocks in the sheet.
The writing down of fixed assets is reflected
in the corpulence of the investment portfolio:
1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. .. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Creditors .. .. 61,122 61,729 31,258
Freeholds, plant, quarries,
etc 297,932 262,662 237,801
Wilsons Collieries, Ltd. A 9.993 1 45 g 62 0 470,866
Investments . . .. aoo,l/7 )
Stocks 57,719 53,663 47,429
Debtors 72,770 74,138 37,563
Cash 100,396 69,344 83,584
Thus the hook value of working assets
(£237,801) dropped £24,861 last year; in-
vestments (£470,866, mostly Government
stocks) increase £12,246. Debtors’ balances
(£87.563) fell away £37,575 (which indicates
the slide in turnover). Though the bins at
Portland are full, stock values (£47,429)
were worked down £6234, while the cash
holding (£83,584) improved £14,240. The
more or less liquid surplus (£608,184, in-
cluding stocks and the subsidiary) was
£14,148 stronger than at the previous balance,
and is now in excess of capital. The growth
in surplus liquids has been nearly £300,000
over the past half-dozen years; and though
returns from the invested portion help to
steady earnings, there is more than a possi-
bility of a part return of shareholders’ funds..
The steady fall in the consumption of
cement continues. On April 23 the big works
were closed; they were not opened until May
30, and further stoppages can be expected
during the year. Also, there is a likelihood
of returns from Government bonds being
reduced. Still, with plant in the books at
a very low figure, the provision for deprecia-
tion need not be so liberal as hitherto,
though the benefits to be derived from past
cautiousness are not inexhaustible. The
immediate outlook in the Shivery Isles sug-
gests irregular returns from cement and
uncertain dividends.
The £1 shares are hacked by 275. 2d. in
net tangibles, about 20s. of it in surplus
liquids. The market prices the scrip at 265.
6d.; the return at that figure is 7.6 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis, or 6 p.c. if the div.
drops to 8 p.c.
Silverton Tramway Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 64,080 p.e.37,500 16,580 52,012
1923.. 53.112 131 „ „ 68,750 14,362 66,374
1924.. 90,557 20 „ „ 100,000 56,931
1925.. 81.514 111 „ „ 56,250 25,264 82,195
1926.. 76,603 15 „ 75,000 1.603 83,798
1927.. 68,572 111 „ „ 56,250 12,322 96,120
1928.. 76,074 7* „ „ 37,500 38,574 134,694
1929.. 53,914 10 „ „ 50,000 3,914 138,608
1930.. 84,303 10 „ „ 50,000 34,303 172,911
1931.. 53,471 8$ „ „ 43,750 9,721 182,632
1932.. 42,807 5 „ „ 25,000 17,807 200,439
Earnings depend chiefly upon the haulage
of minerals over the 36-mile track which
links Broken Hill with the South Aus.
system at Cockburn. During the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts, the quan-
tity of goods carried was approximately
14i,000 tons less than in the previous year,
due mainly to the accumulation of metal
stocks at the Barrier, the market being un-
able to absorb them, even ,at prices below
cost of production. Also, some of the zinc
concentrates are being railed to Cockle Creek ;
and the reopening of the Central came too
late for the figures to get much benefit from
that quarter. The following table shows
what happened:—
1931, ■ 1932,* Difference
Goods carried: — tons. tons. tons.
Coal 58,603 19,965 —38,638
Lead concentrates .. 223.367 1.99,203 —24,164
Zinc concentrates •• 274,068 197,861 iO.-Oi
Other goods .. .. 65,975 63;962 —2,013
Total 622,013 480,911 —141,022
* 53 weeks.
The new Diesel-driven central power plant,
and the closing down of the Prop., Junction
and Block 14 mines, affected the coal figures.
The slip in the year’s revenue (£112,872)
was £32.508; exes. (£71,666. including
£16.089 for taxation) were pulled back
£19.287. Allowing for reserve adjustments,
the net result was £10,664 lighter at 8.5 p.c.
oil capital as against 10.6. 16.8. 10.8. 15.2.
13.7 and 15.3 p.c. back to 1926. So_3| points
Were chipped off the div., reducing it to
5 p.c., and making the average over the last
decade 11.2 p.e.
The 11.2 p.c. was sweetened with a one
for one bonus issue in 1920. and £lB7 200
of gift paper had been distributed before
that. But the past is no guide to the future
of this business, which depends upon tlie life
of the field, which in turn depends upon
metal prices and costs. So. to provide for
repayment of capital, a special fund has
been created, to which £12,500 was added
last year, raising it to £53,583 at June 30.
Compounded at 4 p.c. it would take about
17 years to accumulate £307.000-odd ( the
excess of capital over liquid surplus, exclud-
ing stores, etc.) at last year’s rate of con-
tribution. To maintain this and pay a 5 p.c.
div. the co. will need to net at least 7.5 p.c.
on capital.
The board's reserve fund policy is reflected
by the growth in liquids:—
1918. 1929. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £2'50,000 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities . . 46,250 47,568 37,202 33,865
Fixed assets . . 204,346 484,436 490,927 488,500
Fuel and stores 39,926 31,221 24,374 20,837
Sundry debtors 55,399 56,229 41,976 39,445
Cash, etc. .. 117,793 114,466 163,534 186,905
Thus cash, etc., benefited by £23,371 last
year. The etcetera includes £171,000 (face
value) of Government securities, up £1.9,000
during the tWelvemonth. Fixed assets are
reported in good order.
The market prices the pound shares at
17s. 6d., at which figure the return is 5.7
p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits, Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
June,
1922.. 17,852 10 p.c. = 15,000 2,852 5,7)8
1923.. 18.556 10 „ „ 15,000 3,556 9.274
1924.. 18,392 10 „ ~ 15,000 3,392 12,666
1925.. 18,671 10 „ ~15,000 3,671 16.337
1926.. 15,213 10 „ ~ 15,000 3,213 19,550
1927.. 18,551 10 „ „ 15,000 3,551 23,101
Premiums on shares, £15,573 .. .. 38,674
Old plant revalued and specific reserves
(£11,299) taken in ~ .. .. 49,973
1928.. 18,190 10 p.c. = 16,054 2,136 52,109
1929.. 24,002 10 „ „ 21,000 3,002 55,111
1930.. 23,944 9 „ ~18,900 5,044 60,155
1931.. 7,771 2-J „ 5,250 2,521 62,676
1932.. 8,805 3 „ „ 6,300 2,505 65,181
The co. got its full share of business avail-
able, and it can be expected to continue to
do so. Still, trading profits (£13,152, after
paying all working exes, and striking off
£3OOO more than was spent on fixed assets)
were £2755 lighter than the previous year’s.
But the slip there was more than offset by
a reduction of £3790 in the tax bill (£4346),
which is in respect of each preceding year’s
earnings. Thus the final result was 4.9 p.c.
on capital as against 3.7, 11.4, 11.4, 11.3,
12.3 and 12.1 p.c. back to 1926, and a 3
p.c. div. was paid. The £2505 that re-
mained lifted reserves to £65,181; but some
of this may be required to readjust capital
values, the chairman says.
For the 20 years to the end of 1929 share-
holders got a steady 10 p.c., sweetened with
£75,000 of bonus scrip and special cash dis-
tributions totalling £67,500. But what the
future holds it is difficult to say. The open-
ing of the Harbor Bridge has affected the
bar trade. Still, the hotel, which has
always been popular amongst country
visitors, may attract the patronage of
some who formerly sought more expen-
sive accommodation ; the management claims
to be giving better service at reduced charges.
But we have entered upon a period of
readjustment in which the burden of taxa-
tion and the stubbornness of overhead
threaten to press heavily upon attenuated
hotel and other earnings, thus keeping
profits and divs. down.
To provide accommodation for an extra
170 guests, making total capacity 500, a
new wing was put up about four years ago.
This added £151.000-odd to the book value
of premises. The following table shows how
the outlay was financed:—
1927. 1929. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £150',000 £210,000 £210,007 £210,00:
Liabilities . . 8,880 39,093 30,331 23,844
Fixed assets.. 164,636 316,244 311,317 308,317
Stock.. .. 2,247 2,816 .3,770 2,852
Book debts, cash,
etc 35,663 3,644 1,927 2,912
The £60,000 of fresh capital brought with
it £15,573 of share premiums. Last year's
surplus earnings enabled £6487 to be snipped
off the debt, reducing it to £lB,OBO in excess
of more or less liquids at June 30. The im-
provement in the financial position over the
last three years is £14,553. As usual, fixed
assets are reported in excellent condition.
On the market 17s. is offered for the pound
shares. The return at that price'is 3.5
p.c. on a 3 p.c. div. basis, or 5.9 p.c. on
a 5 p.c. distribution. The book value of
the cover is 265. 2d. in net tangibles, all
fixed assets, worth what they, can earn.
Shipping Newspapers, Ltd. (Sydney)
Dividends.
f A N Nominal
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits* (8 p.c.) Ord. (serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1927.. 4,647 1894 Nil 2,753 27,283
1928.. 12,177 1981 Nil 10,196 37,479
1929.. 7,344 2400 5 p.c. 6150 36,273
1930.. 4,665 2400 Nil, 2,205 38,478
Loss. (4 p.c.)
1931.. 2,116 1200 Nil 35,102
Written off intangibles, £1448 .. 33,714
* Including unexplained additions to reserves.
This 21-year-old printing and publishing con-
cern turns out a number of trade journals.
The public became interested in 1926. when
£30,000 of 8 p.c. pref. money was gathered,
making paid capital £153,000; also, subsi-
diaries were formed in Melbourne, Adelaide.
Brisbane and Perth to take over the branches
there. To finance extensions of their respec-
tive interests and provide working capital the
pups got in a little pref. money, too. As a
whole, they have been poor and irregular
contributors to the. pool.
After paying its own pref. divs.,i the
parent’s net earnings for the four years to
the end of 1930 averaged 4 p.c. on ord. capi-
' tal; and over the same period a solitary 5
p.c. was distributed. Last year advertising
space was difficult to sell at reduced rates,
while exchange, primage and other taxes
swelled outgoings. The admitted loss was
£2116; still, the profs, got half a meal and
£1448 of travelling exes., which had been
capitalised over the last five years, was
written off, reducing the so-called reserves
to £33,714. They are subject to an unspeci-
fied amount of establishment charges which,
together with stocks and sundries, total
£7634 (up £1768 during the year), and to
intangibles in the subsidiaries.
The Yic. co.. which is capitalised at
£70,000, including £20,000 of 9 p.c. prefs.,
has not paid a div. on the ords. for the lasf
two years. At June 30, 1931. goodwill
figured at £46,508; reserves totalled £3736.
At the same date the Adelaide business had
£1343 of reserves to set against £12(885 of
intangibles, including "publication. £11,435."
It is capitalised at £30.000, including £BOOO
of 8 p.c. prefs., and has paid one ord. div.
(5 p.c.) in the last five years. The Bris-
bane and Perth offshoots do not broadcast
thdr figures.
The position so far as the parent’s sheet
shows it is as follows
1927. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital . . . . £146,725 £153,000 £153,000
Mortgages . . . . 12,500 12,500 12,500
Sundry creditors . . 20,702 13,425 12,825
Freeholds . . . . 23,346 23,346 23;340
Plant, etc 32,777 32,187 32,242
Shares .. . .. 123,085 130,264 126,15$
Stocks, sundries, etc.. . 11,663 5,866 7,634
Debtors 16,775 25.655 22,623
Cash _ 37 86 37
Subject to the soundness of debtors’ balances,
the floating debt, which has been reduced
by £7877 over the last four years, is well
covered. From the published figures it is
not possible to say exactly what the net tan-
gible backing for the prefs. amounts to. The
div., now 12 months in arrears, is subject to
the statutory 221 p.c. cut, and the co. may
have a struggle to keep up regular payments.
East African Coffee
This co., formed in 1928, is in the same
stable as Victoria Nyanza Sugar, which was
also promoted by the late George R. Mayers.
The early success of the sugar business sent
the public rushing for this co.’s scrip (paid
capital is £150,000, including £50,000 in
paids taken by the vendor), which w r as soon
selling at 435. on the market. But the out-
look for all commodities has changed vastly
during the last couple of years, and the
shares are now offered at 15s\
The co. is not yet out of the development
stage. It holds some. 8500 acres, mostly on
a 99-year lease, in the Nandi and Kiambn
districts, East Africa, and has 1398 acres
planted with coffee-trees. These are not
revenue-producers until three years old, and
do not come into full bearing until their
(Continued on page 16.)


lOTjs Icts d
a
\
fv
I
mm.
W'V
s:*:*:*B£
II
Vo:
£l,3 —«cj£i'
\ J
\il
v/a
mmM-
PI {if
#«'. «U(— '.■■.?&
Ssssw®
j
': > •• • ■
*SWw
"CORK 6- PLA I N"
—the Twain
*
On every hand we’re in demand-
At Bridge especially favoured.
The ladies there always declare
We’re most divinely flavoured.
io
for- O
20 fort
d
Also in Round Hermeti-
cally Sealed Airtight
Tins af 50 and Boxes
of 50 and 100.
CAPSTANS
NOW Cork Tipped and Plain
Bb l '


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, SvdDey,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—A»rf.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Stoat*,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Se., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.).— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric aud Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited. (incorporated by Act of Parliament IBM),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Wfe
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
**' * *
BUSINESS EXECUTIVES. —You’ll almost always
find a successful business has a dominating person
ality controlling it. A man with knowledge and
skill, hard to get, harder to replace. Big British
and American firms protect themselves against the
loss of such a man with a Life Policy. The T. and
G. Mutual Life Society can show you some very
interesting suggestions. Enquiry to any of its office*
costs nothing 1 . Ring or write the T. and Q. for
particulars. Offices in all cities.— Advt. [l2
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Wonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite ■
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Your Altered
Financial Position
will probably necessitate your making a new will. If so, appoint
as your Executor and Trustee, Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited), a corporate body which has had forty-five years’
experience in the administration of Estates and which can never
die or leave the country. Write or call for free explanatory
Booklet.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited).
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Riyers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores, Silver and Silver Ores,
Gold and Silver Bullion, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates, Scrap Copper,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS of Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate
(Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the
Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (Insured) to either our Sydney or
Port Kembla Office. The company will realise it on your account at current
London prices plus exchange, and will issue you a certificate to enable you
to collect the Gold Bounty.
sixth . year. Because of this, the cost of
handling a small crop (774 tons as against
tons in the previous season) and the
continued fall in prices (sales averaged £75
bs. per ton, or £4 14s. less than the pre-
vious season’s average) a loss of £614 showed
up for the 12 months to Aug. 31 last. That
was_ after charging £9262 to development,
raising expenditure on this account to
£53,288. The debit at p. and 1. is £33, and
preliminary exes, figure at £3260.
To finance the year’s outlay on develop-
ment £6077 net was added to the outside
debt, which includes £22,773 advanced by
the late G. R. Mayers and liis son:—
1928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. £49,532 £149,695 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 97,051 47,959 23,854 29,931
Land
and buildings 77,985 93,941 100,271 100,191
Plant . . . . 0,069 10,631 22,574 20,943
Stocks and stores 663 1,485 1,506 1,371
Book debts . . 397 14,675 1,676 795
Cash, etc. .. 46,174 45,516 1,120 50
Thus the excess of liabilities over more or
less liquids increased by £8163 during the
year, reaching £27,715 when the books closed.
All the plantations are reported in splendid
condition, being “particularly free from
diseases and pests,” though there have been
traces of infection.
The outlook for the industry is clouded
by _ over-production, especially in Brazil,
which supplies over 70 p.c. of the world’s
requirements. Brazilian stocks at the end
of February totalled 40,812,000 bags com-
pared with 31,901,000 a year earlier, and
they promise to press heavily upon prices
for some time. Still, Kenya coffee is reported
to be selling freely in competition with the
S. American product.
Emu Bay Railway Co.
Deben- Deficit
Ordinary ture Capi- (Goodwill
and Pre- tal and Items not
ferential Accrued Divi- Reckoned
Dec., Capital. Interest. Loss. dends. Assets).
£ £ £ £ £
1921 . . 295,000 271,357 12,78.1 Nil 158,994
1922.. 295,000 282,815 10,703 Nil 169,697
1923.. 295,000 293,693 10,849 Nil 180,546
Asset reinstatement, £2540 . . 178,000
Capital written down, £78,000.. 100,000
Profit,
1924.. 300,571 397,964 11,310 Nil 99,921
1925.. 300,571 397,574 11,150 Nil 99,996
1926.. 300,571 397,574 13,568 Nil 99,985
1927.. 300,571 397,574 12,885 Nil 99,990
1928.. 300,571 397,574 12,883 Nil 99,997
1929.. 300,571 397,574 13,327 Nil 99,996
Loss.
1930.. 300,571 397,574 1,820* Nil 104,761*
1931.. 300,571 397,574 51 s Nil 104,812*
of interest on debentures ( £8836 accrued
at 31/12/’3l).
Shortly before the close of the nineteenth
century, when the mining boom at Zeehau
was in full swing, this co. took a 99-years’
lease of the Emu Bay and Mt. Bischoff Co.’s
Burnie-Waratah line and connected it with
the Tas. West Coast. Presently refractory
ores came in and the tide ran out. Thus
deprived of its chief source of income, the
haulage of metals, the co. has limped along,
being unable to keep up regular payments
of interest and rent. In 1924 the position
was tidied up, in a way, by the issue of
irredeemable debentures —£130,900 of A} p.c.
cumulative stock replaced the Emu Bay-
Mt. Bischoff lease, which carried a rental
of £lO,OOO p.a., and £266,674 of 5 p.c. stock
was substituted for the co.’s own debentures
and interest arrears; the 5 per cents, are
non-cumulative until the end of 1933, when
they become cumulative. The share capital
totals £300,571 in 61,500 A 7 p.c. and
122,071 B 6 p.c. prefs. and 260,000 ords.- —
the latter are paid to 95.; the other 11s. was
written off. The prefs., which are non-eumu-
lative, have not had a div. since before the
war, nor is one in sight.
A couple of years ago’ it looked as if the
-long dry spell might be broken. The Elec-
trolytic Zinc Co., having overcome treat-
ment problems in connection with the com-
plex ores of the Reid-Rosebery field, put up
a mill on the spot. The concentrates were
to be railed to Burnie, and everything was
ready for a start when slump made the min-
ing and treatment of lead-zinc ore unprofit-
able, and operations at Rosebery ceased.
Before they can begin again a new staff will
have to be recruited, and with costs as they
are prices will need to improve substantially
to make the venture worth while. Thus the
Emu Bay Co.’s revenue fell away from
£80,420 in 1929 to £40.849 last year, when
the slip was £17,780. Exes. (£40,900) were
got back £19.549, leaving the year’s loss at
£5l. That is excluding £8836 of accrued in-
terest on the 4 h p.c. debentures. Holders
of the fives, who have gone hungry for the
last two years, have averaged 1.8 p.c. since
1923.
When the books last closed there was
£40,056 coming to creditors, including
£34,799 on account of three large locos.,
bought to cope with the expected increase
in the Rosebery traffic. Including £lOO,OOO
originally taken by the promoters for rights,
etc., the railway figured at £708,061: stores,
£11,365; book debts. £2859; cash, £11,952;
odds and ends, £452.
Consumption of the principal metals
cannot be accurately linked up with prices,
because of the pressure of stocks upon the
market. A rough idea of the extent of this
pressure cap be had from the following table,
which shows 1931 prices and world consump-
tion as a percentage of the 1929 figures: —
Price. World Consumption.
Copper .. .. 45 p.c. 60 p.c.
Tin . . . . 54 „ 75 ~
Zinc . . ■ ■ 56 „ 71 „
Lead . . • • 62 „ 75 ~
Nickel . . 100 ~ 54 ~ _
Production of nickel is controlled entirely
from one area, Sudbury (Canada). Efforts
are being made to prop up prices for the
other metals by regulating supplies. The
history of copper illustrates the danger of
making the prop too stout.
AVorld consumption of tin in 1931 was
130,000 tons compared with an average of
150,000 tons for the eight preceding years.
Visible stocks are now 60,000 tons, of which
21,000 tons is in the International Tin Pool’s
warehouses, leaving a surplus of 39,000 tons
on the market. In 1929, Bolivia, Malaya,
Nigeria and the Dutch East Indies produced
162,000 tons (equal to about 86 p.c. of the
Avorld output). Early in 1931 this was
reduced, compulsorily, to 126.000 tons, and
three months later to 106,000 tons. A
further cut was made in January of this year
to 91,000 tons, and still more recently to
71,000 tons, which is only 44 p.c. of the
1929 output. Including 14,000 tons of non-
controlled production, the output of tin
to-day is at the rate of 85,000 tons p.a.;
consumption is about 120,000 tons p.a. Thus
appearances are that the market surplus
will be wiped out in about a year, leaving
the 21.000 tons, which cost the Pool over
£3,000,000, to be liquidated. This and the
possibility of the present uncontrolled output
being increased may stand in the way of an
early recovery of the price of the metaL
l’.i * *
“Cuzinjan”: In the flotation of pyritic
gold ores, soluble starch has lately been
found very effective in preventing gangue
minerals being carried into the concentrate.
Thus on one mine in California, 1.21 b. of
starch per ton of ore increased the grade
of concentrate from 0.980 z. of gold per ton
to 6.20 z., with an improved total recovery
of gold. With a smaller quantity of concen-
trate to handle treatment costs were reduced.
Some such re-agent might prove to be a
winner at Mt. Morgan, where there is about
700,000 tons of stone, assaying 6idwt. gold
and 1 p.c. copper, immediately available.
Imperial Smelting Corp., in which the big
ccs. at the Barrier are interested, has
acquired a substantial holding in Friekers
Metal and Chemical Co., the largest manu-
facturer of zinc oxide in Britain. W. S.
Robinson, chairman of Zinc Corp., has been
appointed to the board.
$ $ $ $
The official report on the much-boomed
Cracow goldfield, in Queensland, is mildly
optimistic; it certainly does not convey the
impression that the field is anything like a
second edition of Mt. Morgan, which some
of its admirers acclaimed it to be. Briefly,
the Government geologists sum it up as a
large low-grade formation, richly auriferous
in well-separated patches. It has yet to
be proved at depth.
* * *
On the Ilodgkinson (N.Q.) goldfield
returns comparable with those got in the
earlier days have been recently obtained.
The best crushing to date is 118 tons for
3620 z. of gold, while one parcel of 20 tons
from the Flying Pig averaged 7.50 z. Some of
the old mines are being reopened. Numerous
fissure lodes exist, and the rich shoots have
been worked to comparatively shallow depths.
Prospects of locating additional shoots, either
in lateral direction or vertically along the
course of the fissure, seem likely enough.
* * * *
During June the Palmer River Gold Co.’s
dredge (N.Q.) treated 17,240 c.y. of gravel
for 450 z. sdwt. of gold, valued at £3OO. Time
was lost owing to repairs to the boiler. A
representative of a group of British finan-
ciers, accompanied by an engineer, is ex-
pected to inspect the co.’s area at an early
date.
* * #
At St. Pauls, Ravehswood district (Q.),
an irregular quartz body has been proved for
400 ft. with widths varying from sft. to 20ft.
A shaft has been sunk to 50ft. in 10 p.c.
siliceous copper ore. carrying about 2dwt.
gold per ton. Surface trenching is to be
undertaken to prospect the numerous out-
crops along the strike of the lode.
* * * #
During June sixty ounces of gold, valued
at £4OO, were obtained from the Thane’s
Creek and Pratten fields in the Warwick
(Q.) district. This is the highest yield from
the locality for some time, and those on the
spot say it is likely to be exceeded when the
Thane’s Creek battery gets to work. There
are about 40 prospectors on the two fields.
Gold was first discovered there in 1863.
*=!=*&
From the Texas district, near the Q.-N 8
Wales border, regular consignments of marble
are being stent to Brisbane for building pur-
poses. Black and mottled stone is being
quarried at Limevale, and white marble
at Elbow Valley. A Warwick syndicate is
interested; about £3OOO worth of new plant
has arrived on the fields, and more men are
to be employed. Over £20,000 worth of con-
tracts are in hand.
* Sf << *
A promising tin find has been made near
Stockyard Creek (Q.). A first crusnn. f ,
of 8 tons of surface material gave 4£ tons
of high-grade oxide. Shaft-sinking is in
progress.
# . * * *
Payable gold has been reported from the
upper reaches of Reedy Creek, about 28
miles from Esk (Q.), where some 30 fos-
sickers are at work.
$
Eepango Sulphur, a Melbourne co., is in-
vestigating the sulphur deposits of New
Guinea with a view to their further develop-
ment. F. A. Roberg will shortly leave to
inspect properties.
$ $ il*
Great Boulder (W.A.) now figures its ore
reserves at 211,000 tons, averaging 8-?,dwt.
per ton with gold at par, compared with
132,100 tons of B.ldwt. ore at the end of
1931, and 80,372 tons of 9.7dwt. a year
before that. At the annual meeting in
London on June 22, directors Newton Moore
and A. H. Collier mildly whooped about the
improved appearance of the mine, following
developments on the “X” lode. Chairman
Waddington announced that a conservative
policy would be adopted in the distribution
of future profits. He also said that tribut-
ing, which had provoked considerable critic-
ism in Australia, would go on. Tributors
could and did go into places in which, on
account of the strict mining laws, the co.
couldn’t go, and frequently they opened up
good ore which resulted in profits to the co.
So far £15,000,000 worth of gold has been
dug out of the Boulder, and its shareholders
have received over six millions sterling in
divs.
* * *
Many shareholders in Boulder Persever-
ance (W.A.) contend that noteholders are
not entitled to half the profits. Communi-
cations have passed between Australian
shareholders and London brokers on the
matter, and it was unofficially stated
some w r eeks ago that the board intended to
do nothing. Subsequently it was suggested
that the board should issue the remainder of
the notes (£30,050) at a premium. Some of
the directors are said to be agreeable to do
this, but others are not.
* * * $
Kalgoorlie is rejoicing over recent finds
at depth, especially in Gt. Boulder and
the Chaffer’s section of Lake View. The
discovery at 3320 ft. in the latter mine is
the richest made on the Golden Mile for
years. The shoot exposed is the downward
extension of that proved in the three levels
immediately above, and assays range from
2oz. to 740 z. per ton over an exposed length
of over 100 ft.; the width varies from Bft.
to 12ft. The full length of the shoot is not
yet known.
* # *
On June 30 Wiluna repaid the first £25,000
of the £300.000 seven-year 6 p.c. notes issued
by it and guaranteed by the Commonwealth
and Westralian Governments. On the
strength of this, and monthly profits of
£30,000 (Aust. currency) and £8598 from
last year’s gold bonus, the co.’s shares have
movfed up.
Associated Northern’s shares have soared
a little on the strength of improved returns
from tributors on the co.’s Kalgoorlie mine,
and the possibility of the pile of tailings
(about 250,000 tons) there being retreated at
an early date on a royalty basis?.
* # * *
Rich ore, assaying up to 3oz. per ton, has
been located at the Kitchener Mine, Bamboo
Creek (W.A.). The main shaft is now down
150 ft., and a 10-head battery has been
installed.
* * * #
Freney’s oil co.’s bore (W.A.) has
reached _ 550 ft. on the way to its 3000 ft.
destination. All concerned will be relieved
when the 700 ft. mark is passed. After that
softer strata and faster progress are said
to be assured.
* * ' * *
The mapping of possible oil fields from
the air, as now being carried out at Long-
reach (Q.) and elsewhere by the Common-
wealth geologist, is one of the latest develop-
ments in oil search. The photographs, taken
from an altitude of about 10.000 ft., overlap
50 per cent., and include definite ground
targets. With the prints joined a mosaic
map results, from which the principal geolo-
gical features become apparent. This map
then forms the basis of detailed geological
studies.
❖ ❖ ❖ $
Tingha Tin, Melbourne-controlled, has
decided to abandon its Malayan property and
turn its attention to gold. The alternative,
says chairman E. H. Flack, is to go into
voluntary liquidation, which would mean the
loss of much of the £55,636 of capital. No
hint has been given as to whether the manage-
ment has its eye on any particular gold-
bearing area.
# ❖ *
“Northerner” : Tantalite deposits ■in the
Territory stretch from West Arm to the
Daly River, a distance of some 30 miles.
Values range from 83 p.c. at West Arm to
35 p.c. at Daly River; but this is not
a poor man’s field. American buyers want
a guaranteed monthly tonnage. One claim
shows the lode for 75 yards on the surface.
12ft. wide at the top and 33ft. 15#.
down, showing high-grade tantalite right
through. No Government allowance is
granted to prospectors.
* * * *
Amalgamated Kawarau Gold (M.L.).
whose original scheme for damming the
Kawarau River to get at the gold in its bed
fell short of expectations, has raised fresh
capital to build another dam below the Arrow
River. The gates of the first dam were closed
a week or so ago, and large numbers of pros-
pectors waited along the banks for the
waters to fall. One party is credited with
having taken £2OOO of gold from a crevice
in a very short time.
❖ * * %
The world’s greatest single gold-producer
is the Gold Mining Areas, on the Rand. In
1931 2,430,000 tons ore yielded just over
one million ounces, or double the output from
the "whole of Australia. The average grade
of ore mined was B.9dwt. Mill equipment
includes 6 large rock-breakers, 200 stamps,
each weighing 20001 b., 35 large tube mills
and 192 corduroy-blanket gold-collecting
tables, which are cleaned every two hours.
The cyanide section has 26 sand vats, each
1000 tons capacity, 19 slime vats, 22 agi-
tator tanks, 131,000 sq. ft. of filtering area.
11 clarifiers and 65 extractor zinc boxes for
gold precipitation. The mine was opened in
1910; the first div. was not paid until 1917,
since when distributions total 9.4 times paid
capital (£1,400,000). The S’African Gov-
ernment has an interest, and has received
£16,000,000 from the co.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
A number of Queensland cos. are adding
the word “Proprietary ” to their registered
names. Reason and benefits?— l26s.
Under the new Queensland Companies Act
existing cos. may apply to be registered as
private cos. A private co. is one whicn
limits the number of its members, with cer-
tain exceptions, to 50. It is prohibited from
inviting the public to subscribe for its sharee
or debentures. The transfer of shares is
restricted. The co. need not hold the usual
statutory meeting, or file the statutory report
or a copy of its balance-sheet, and it is not
forbidden to alter certain contracts without
the approval of the statutory meeting. The
obligation to send an annual report and
balance-sheet to members is relaxed.
(1) Any market for rutile and zinc-
onium? (2) Name and address of buyers?—
1191.
(1) Yes, but possibilities for Australian pro-
ducers are somewhat limited, because of large
overseas deposits being nearer to treatment
works and consumers. (2) Try Frank Ham-
bridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
P.A.L.: (I) A reasonable spec. Co. is getting
ounce stuff and over, and there appears to be a
good quantity of it. Transport is the difficulty.
(2) There are 200,000 shares, including 40,000 prefs.,
all fully paid to 2s. 6d. each... .M.J.E.: (1) A
Westralian show. There are 250,000 ss. shares paid
to 2s. lOd.; the market is not very interested.
(2) At 19s. 6d. they appear to l>e fully priced;
much depends upon what happens in connection
with exchange. ...G.S.P.: You are not entitled to a
return of the call money. Those who did not pay
calls will have forfeited their shares. Doubtful
whether you will get much, if anything, out of the
wreck.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Price-fixing v. Exchange
Dear Bulletin, —What is wrong with fix-
ing an internal price-level of 12d. average for
every pound of wool sold in Australia and
3s. (id. (country stations) for every bushel
of wheat in place of rigging the exchange
rate? The prices mentioned just about cover
the cost of production. Left alone the
exchange rate would gradually drift back to
par; our favorable trade balance abroad
justifies that assumption. Allowing a record
wool clip and wheat harvest the extra cost
of; this plan would not be more than
£25,000,000 and any appreciation of external
prices (and this is not unlikely) would
reduce this amount. Raising the exchange
rate 10 p.c.,. as suggested, will make the total
on our interest bill about 13 millions. Pri-
vate transactions and the surcharge on
imports must run to a considerable sum iD
addition; from an “inflation” viewpoint
there is thus little to choose between exchange
juggling internal price-fixing. To my
mind the objection to exchange racketeering
is (1) the woolgrower has no guarantee it
is not diverted to other pockets; (2) the
benefit to different primary commodities is
altogether out of proportion. From the
N.S.W. “Monthly Summary” I take the fol-
lowing indexes of wholesale prices (the base
is 100 in 1911)
Percentage
1928. Apr.,1932. Decline.
Wool . . . . 220 88 60
Wheat . . .. 145 89 38
Dairy produce .. 180 149 16
It is obvious producers of dairy commodities
have little to grumble about compared with
the wheat cocky and the grazier; and the
products of the latter are undoubtedly the
real wealth providers. The exchange is a lop-
sided sort of Father Christmas, and internal
price-fixing would be a more honest and equit-
able way of making price adjustments.—
Yours etc., Valerin.
The Money Mess
Dear Bulletin,. —You have advocated the
reckoning of interest payments on a basis
of ruling price-levels, thus stabilising these
fixed charges. A similar principle should be
applied to capital indebtedness. Australia
has declared against inflation, but deflation
of our currency created by the decline of
prices constitutes an enormous strain on our
debtor classes. It might be argued that
interest has been reduced, but the real night-
mare is the repayment of principal. To an
honest man the idea of repudiation is dis-
tasteful, but the present position is rank
with injustice. The whole difficulty originates
in our disastrous money system. Money
should be linked to an index figure, based on
ruling price levels. Moreover, money should
be, in some measure, a matter for inter-
national co-operation and control. Since the
war the various countries have, for the most
part, pursued. entirely different monetary
policies. England first went on and then
off the gold standard, while Russia repu-
diated both internal and external debts.
Some countries inflated, others deflated their
currencies. America and France accumu-
lated and sterilised the gold of the world.
This' confusion of policies has helped to
create the depression, and forms an obstacle
in the way of brighter days. With the
record accumulation of gold known to history,
America also possesses the record accumula-
tion of unemployed known to history. The
misery of her people is the price of America’s
covetousness. The economic inter-dependence
of nations can no longer be ignored. Not
only our currencies but also our tariffs and
trade regulations need to be thrown into the
melting pot. All war to-day is civil war, and
this applies just as much to the trade war
as the war of gas and guns.—Yours sincerely,
T. Jasper.
Export Bounty
Dear Bulletin, —I recommend that tin-
Federal Government pay a bounty on all
goods exported from Australia. This would
put the primary producer on a surer basis;
at present it is doubtful if he gets all the
benefit of the exchange. The bounty would
lessen the exchange, and be a relief to the
Treasurers and public bodies, which have
borrowed abroad; also it would tend to
reduce the cost of living, because some body
must be paying the millions exchange is
costing the importers. I suggest a bounty of
l‘2j p.c.; then the wheatgrower at present
price would receive about sd. per bushel
more, and the woolgrower at Bd. per pound
would receive about Id. per pound more.
The money would have to be raised, of
course; but we would be simply presenting
ourselves with it, and I am afraid we are
presenting a good deal of the exchange pre-
mium to outsiders. France, the most pro-
gressive country in the world at the present
time, lias had export bounties, for many
years—Yours, Geo. Inglis-Hudson.
High Charges to Graziers
Dear Bulletin, —Things have come to a
pretty pass in the pastoral industry. Added
now to our many disabilities is the gag. Free
speech brings retribution in some shape or
form. Hence the various associations cover-
ing the industry have outlived their useful-
ness. If a heavily-mortgaged individual
cannot cuss his “lord and master” for incom-
petence or more often daylight robbery, what
good purpose do these meetings and confer-
ences serve? For instance, no encumbered
selector would dare to stand up at a meet-
ing and accuse his “uncle” of robbing him
of, say, ss. per bale of wool in transit
charges. Yet it is more or less true. Nor
would he be game to declare (and produce
evidence) that he was paying “uncle,” as
his universal provider, not less than 10 per
cent, more for his stores than he should.
There is no more glaring example of exploita-
tion than the common charge of 4s. 9d. for
woolpacks when they are advertised at 3s.
6d. by outsiders. This is a matter which
the next Premiers’ Conference ifiight decide
to have examined, or haven’t they the pluck
either?—Yours, Muggins.
Ou? Defences
Dear Bulletin,— The Defence estimates
for 1931-32 totalled £3,085,000. Over three
millions for tinkering! The whole question
of defence should be reviewed. A large
staff of high-salaried officers and over-paid
subordinates to supervise a few hundred
men! It is hardly conceivable that the tax-
payer, already bled white, should contribute
these millions to run a system which is
almost dead. Yet it is so. It is like paying
an insurance premium without first acertain-
ing the financial position of the eo. you pay
it to. Perhaps the poor taxpayer doesn’t
realise that he is finding a mighty big pre-
mium for his national insurance policy, and
that if it came to a pinch the only security
he could rely on would be the British Navy.
Why, then, does lie not end an expensive
make-believe and divert the next three mil-
lions to Whitehall?—Yours, Philc.ee.
Endowment and the Dole
Dear B., —Family endowment in N. S.
Wales is serving a more than useful purpose.
There are degrees of poverty among the un-
employed. The minority have nothing out-
side the dole. The majority either receive
endowment or have found some means or
other whereby they earn, or at least get, a
few shillings a w r eek in actual money. No
man who has not had to keep a family solely
on the dole food-allowance can possibly
know what it means; the majority of the
unemployed do not know. I had to do it
temporarily and it was unadulterated Hell.
The withdrawal of endowment would turn
the present minority into a majority. The
unemployed problem would cease to be a
problem. It would be a menace. The almost
unnaturally placid manner in which the un-
employed accept their fate is due in a large
measure to the degrees of poverty among
them. They are not united by equal suffer-
ing ; the majority do not realise the trouble,
mental and physical, that is the lot of the
minority. We who do realise know what a
ghastly mistake it would be to withdraw
endowment without at least making provi-
sion for an equal cash payment from some
other source.—Yours, Beta.
Take Over the Old Man’s Farm
Dear Bulletin, —There are very many
good farms held by aged couples too old to
work them themselves, and who cannot
profitably cultivate the land with employed
labor. Having property beyond a certain
value they cannot obtain an old-age pension,
so they live a hand-to-mouth existence lentil
the end. Of course, they might sell, but for
a host of reasons they often will not. Some-
thing surely could be done to lighten the
load for these old people, district pioneers
many of them, and at the same time bring
into productivity valuable ground lying idle.
The Government could
take a hand. It could
put a young, land-hun-
gry, industrious couple on
to work the farm, leav-
ing ,the old couple in pos-
session of their home and
its appointments undis-
turbed, compensating the
old people with an allow-
ance sufficient to permit
them to live in comfort
until the end, when the
Government would step
in and recoup itself from
the sale of the property
to the extent of the
money paid to the late
owners, less the sum paid
as rent by the young
couple working the farm,
who would have the
option of purchase. The
balance would, of course,
belong to the old people’s
estate. In this way ease
and contentment could be
brought to many an aged
couple, and valuable land
now lying idle would be
keeping a family off the
dole and bringing pros-
perity nearer. So long
as they were left in un-
disturbed possession of
their home and their
freedom of action was
not hampered by unneces-
sary restrictions, very
few of the old folk would
object to such an arrange-
ment once they thorough-
ly understood it. And it
would please them to see
their farms green with
flourishing crops, instead .
of day by day degenerat-
ing into a wilderness of
rioting weeds, with fences
tumbling to pieces every-
where. —Yours, Cocky-
80N.
Capital Readjustment
Dear B., —Not only is
capital readjustment
necessary, but to make it
more equitable all per-
sons who kept their sav-
ings in the Savings and
other banks instead of
putting it into Government
bonds should be called
upon to hand something
over to the Federal Govern-
ment to use for eight to
thirty years, they draw-
ing the interest but the
capital not to be touched.
Some people put their
savings into the banks
and it is there intact. I.
at the request of the Fed-
eral Treasurers, put mine
into Government bonds,
and it is tied down for
from eight to thirty
years. Is this fair to me
and thousands like me?
—Yours etc., Equity.
Mental Emergency Drill
Dear B., —The import-
ance of “mental emer-
gency’’ drill cannot be
too strongly emphasised,
in view of the terrible
number of deaths that
occur because people are
unable to think quickly in an emergency.
Many years ago, at a boy’s club, I was first
taught to prepare myself against any accident
that might occur. This did not mean simply
to learn a little practical first aid. We were
given a sketch of, for example, a seven-roomed
house, and had £o say instantly what we
would do supposing a fire broke out in a cer-
tain part of it. I suggest that more social
work of this kind should be done. —Yours,
A. J. A.
The Subdivision of N. S. Wales
Deal- B., —The suggested boundaries of the
proposed new States will meet with strong
opposition, from the Western-Central divi-
sion at least. The proposed States are ill-
shaped and do not lend themselves to future
subdivision. It is perhaps easy to jjnderstand
the North and South sections drawing boun-
daries as designed, but little consideration is
given to those left in the Central section.
I would put forward as a much fairer divi-
sion a line from somewhere about Broken
Bay running due west to the South Austra-
lian border, dividing the State into two
States, and doing it in a way best adapted
for further subdivision. —Yours, etc., H. L.
Lane.
What Is the Matter?
Dear B., —The popular remedy iu Aus-
tralia has long been to reduce wages. It
sounded quite plausible until we tried it a
year ago, only to find that in the last
year unemployment has increased and all
this with food products and manufactured
goods around us in abundance. Mr. Lyons’s
latest brain-wave is to spend all you earn,
such as it is, and give someone a job—then,
perhaps, next week find yourself on the
dole or at best with a further reduction in
wages! Some economists say the whole
thing is the result of over-production, but
how can there be over-production with mil-
lions of the world living on the .breadline?
dependent on Government charity. While
America, for example, is carrying 5,000,000
or more unemployed, the farmers of the
United States are complaining loudly of a
wheat glut. The need is certainly not more
food or material, but more pay—more money
to enable a country’s inhabitants to consume
some of what it produces. The politicians
keep harping on the old bogey that all this,
in Australia at least, is the result of stop-
page of loans, but they can’t surely hope to
go on borrowing indefinitely; and, if there
were an atom of truth in the contention, why
is America, a creditor nation, as badly off
as any other country? The sooner our
Governments muster enough courage to stand
up for a revision of the monetary policy,
they will do something that will have far
more practical effect than preaching the pic-
falls of Communism. —Yours, .1. M. P.
The Banks and Farming
Dear B., —If bank managers in the coun-
try were required to know more about farm-
ing, their bosses in the cities wouldn’t be
in such a flurry about exchange. It is hard
foi' the city person to realise how absolutely
the word of the bank manager goes in the
country. A few years ago they had plenty
of properties to dispose of, and if they got
hold of a good worker they generally tried
to push more land on to him. What the
manager said about it w r as accepted as
gospel. To-day many farmers are paying
dearly for their credulity. Later on the
banks ordered farmers (in their debt, of
course) to plant, with woefully-stinted fer-
tiliser, 500 acres or more. Head offices appa-
rently fail to realise that old soils need much
more working than new: that old soil needs
plenty of rest; that 400 acres well sown
is of more value than (500 acres “roughed”
in. A few seasons of this ill-treatment and
the land will be over-run with take-all, flag-
smut and weeds, and before long attempting
to grow wheat will be impossible on such
farms. They are poor securities now. —
Yours, CUBRAGH.
Charges on Wool
Dear B., —Primary producers in Westralia
are in a bad way; and if they crash so must
the country. Yet what is the Government
doing to prevent it? Many of the charges
for wool-handling remain the same as iu
prosperous times. The State railways still
demand Bd. per ton per mile freight from
Marble Bar to Port Iledland, while the
wharfage at the port (2s. 6d. per bale) has
never been reduced. The state of the indus-
try is reflected in the fact that one of the
biggest squatters in the nor'-west offered
9000 sheep off shears at Is. a head and could
not find a buyer,—Yours, K. A. Y.
Salvation by Word-spinning
Dear Bulletin, —The Gepp blight again !
Is poor, suffering unemployed Australia
never to be freed from this avalanche
of word-spinning “experts” on job-get-
ting? The only jobs they ever get are
for themselves; all Aus, gets are umpteen
reports—and no one can eat them ! Gepp's
income from the Bruce-Seullin-Lyons Gov-
ernments alone would have kept a colony of
jobless workers. Can’t you wake someone
up and make them drop relying on these leg-
pulling “experts”?—Yours, Hope Deferred
(Yic.).
THE MYSTERY HIKE.
HIKER: “Hey, this isn’t a mystery hike! You’re on the route the borrow-and-burst crowd always
took.”
NEW HIKEMASTER: “Exactly. I promised to keep off it, and I’m on it. What could be more
mystifying than that?”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOAVS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Bitter Sweet”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Grand Opera
King’s - ‘
Movies and talkies
On and Off the Ice
Personally this Showman has nothing at
all against ‘ice in its proper place, which is
in beer, and at its proper time, which is in
summer. Somebody having discovered how to
make ice as easily as you boil a kettle, there
is an ice skating-rink on Sydney’s George-
street West, which is really George-street.
South if it is George-street at all, which is
denied in these days by the inhabitants, for
business reasons, and by geometry, for, as
Euclid points out in Book XIII, a street is
never the same again once it has turned at
a right angle. However, they put the ice
skating-rink there (and, what is worse, called
it a Glaciarium) because it is nearer the
“Max is a human swan.”
South Pole than any other part of the city,
all the rest “of the city being nearer the
Equator.
The worst forebodings are aroused as soon
as one enters the Glaciarink or Skatarium.
You walk down a long, long corridor, and it
gets colder and colder. A notice near the
door says that the management reserves the
right to remove anyone without question.
So when Frith goes there —it was he who
inveigled the Showman into the place—lie
becomes a peripatetic question-mark. He
wants to know how they make the ice, and
keep it. smooth, and mow it, and whether
it is possible to do a back somersault on it
while balancing a pie on a toasting-fork,
and why the skates- don’t have rollers, and
whether the fish like being frozen in. All
these questions and many others are
patiently answered by Max. Perhaps you
don’t know Max. Max is a human swan.
He glides with effortless grace over the wide
lagoon all day long. Max on the ice is a
poem, a symphony of motion —almost a
dream. Associated with him are lesser
poems, or symphonies, all in the same garb
—a neat black sac coat, buttoned up, a soft
blue shirt and spotted tie, black riding
breeches and high black boots. Under the
guidance of Max and his myrmidons timid
mortals from the outer world are tugged,
towed, pushed and slid along the ice till they
lose their fears and set forth alone. Then,
generally, there comes a fearful crash, the
remains are taken to the morgue, which is.
always full, and the band, laid on by radio,
plays an especially lively hornpipe while a
machine removes the bloodstains. Neo-
phytes who survive eventually become swans,
if they don’t weaken under the severe con-
cussion.
Skating is good for girls. They can wear
sweaters of any color and hair and lips of
any shade, and as they simply must balance
their deportment becomes beautifuller and
beautifuller, till even when walking they get
to be like those great ladies of old 'Ver-
sailles who could cross a drawing-room with
so . little perturbance of their voluminous
skirts that they seemed to be running on
rollers. But the girls at the Glaciskatium
don t wear long skirts. They wear bloom-
ers to the knee and skirts that cover the
bloomers only when the wearers are not in
motion.. Girls can do awfully jolly things
on the ice. Waltz, for instance. Your part-
ner lets you go every second gyration and he
twirls and you twirl before you come again in
“A fearful crash.”
contact at the intersection of the two com-
circles. We saw a girl doing a continu-
ous circle all by herself. Her feet pointed
one this way, the other nearly quite the
other way (see diagram), and on a circle
that iilli'd this wide angle she glode and
glode till it .seemed she wist have the secret
of perpetual motion. But she stopped at
last, and then without warning leaped into
the air, descended on one skate and spun
like a top. Frith said this must be very
good exercise, and did it take long to learn,
and did they get giddy? Max replied (1)
No. (2) Yes. (3) Yes. In an addendum
or appendix to (1) he explained that owing
■to the pressure of centrifugal force the
organs of the interior come slap against the
ribs, and people who spin too long and too
frequently go off their oats, suffer from in-
somnia and eventually die, the despair of
their, medical advisers. He instanced, as
an example of the terrible influence of cen-
trifugal force upon the human frame, the
case of the: celebrated skate-dancer Char-
lotte. When she spun she span so fast that
her- nose appeared as a little circular ledge.
And blood ~o'ozed from her finger-nails.
Frith’s awestruck eye showed that he was
impressed. He had resolved not to spin—
at least not to excess.
There are other reasons why Frith, though
he has sp far escaped the morgue, will not
be spinning this season. One of these is
the skate, that horrible yet monumental
example of perverted human ingenuity.
Away back in the days when lake-dwellers
in the polar regions were the only skaters
the skate was perfectly straight all the way
along on the edge that "rests on the ice. You
could have some confidence in a skate like
that. But tlie skate of to-day is shaped like
the bottom of a. rocking-chair so that the
second it feels your weight it snakes from
under you. A treacherous contraption, so
efficient that even in Mugs’ Alley, where
there are handrails within reach each side,
many a would-be skatist has been laid low.
Also, in the days of long ago, the skate
was strapped to the foot. If you felt ner-
vous while half-way from Rajknverok to
Kjnerak you could sit down and take them
off. But not now. They’re screwed to the
boot and you can either wear ’em or go bare-
foot.
But there’s nothing to be said against
ice-skating. Not a word. Good clean healthy
fun. Especially for the onlookers.
Advertised as “the greatest living violin-
ist,” Josef Szigeti took his stance in Sydney
Town Hall on Thursday and proceeded to
show that he had a reasonable case, as the
lawyers say, in support of the claim made
on bis behalf. Szigeti is a tall, tight-lipped,
cold-eyed Hungarian who has very nearly
finished going bald. You expect him to play
with icy bauteur, like Heifetz, but-he doesn’t.
In a game of poker with Szigeti, • Heifetz
would bluff the other fellow out of bis boots.
Szigeti shows that he' loves his fiddle and
loves the melodies that flow from its strings.
He accentuates every phrase witb a little
sharp nod, very much after the fashion of
Moiseiwitsch, otherwise smoothly negotiating
a torrent of arpeggios—each group clinched
with the head-action of a man driving nails
into a packing-case. The outstanding feature
of Szigeti’s playing is its beautiful evenness.
His technique is not perfect—perfection is
not attainable on this earth in any art—-
but its limitations are few and these are so
cleverly cloaked that they pass almost un-
“Tugged, towed, pushed and slid.”
noticed. He preserves the melodic outline
and pursues the main idea, no matter how fes-
tooned with filagree it may be, and his tone
is always suave and sweet. To hear the Bach
G Minor Sonata (unaccompanied) played by
such a master is a liberal musical education.
Szigeti also unfolds new delicacies in Mozart
and provides a reason why Corelli created
such a tremendous splash in the world of
the violin. Remarkably interesting, too,
Szigeti makes such works as Bloch’s
“Nigun”; he plays these Jewish themes with
inspired fervor.
Nikita Magaloff, who would have been a
Prince if his country had stayed on the
Romanoff standard, is a young pianist who
supplies so fitting and so unobtrusive a back-
ground for Szigeti’s tone-paintings that you
are surprised to find him still on the plat-
form when the bow drops and the storm of
applause breaks out. Incidentally, any de-
lusion that Szigeti may have harbored con-
cerning the discriminative powers of his audi-
ence must have been shattered by the sim-
plicity with which it diagnosed any pause
in the flow of melody as the end of the piece
and madly beat its hands together.
Y Y Y
The golden chariot of song continues to
set out for a fresh destination every even-
ing at Melb. Royal. As the season pro-
gresses Apollo Granforte is seen to be the
chief charioteer, with Lina Paliughi as his
most distinguished passenger. “The Barber of
Seville” attracted a good attendance of first-
nighters. Miss Paliughi provided the part of
Rosin a with a baby face and the voice of an
angel. A perfectly superfluous hit of realism
was a fountain which supplied an obbligato of
plashing water throughout the second act.
Granforte Figaro competed with Montanari
Almaviva for public attention throughout the
first act and won hands down from his vocal
adversary. “The Barber” is one of those
operas, of which half the enjoyment is lost
to the general through ignorance of the lan-
guage. Pity it can’t be presented in English.
Y Y Y
There was only one- night of Verdi’s “Un
Ballo in Maschera,’’-most artificial of operas,
at Melb. Royal. The principals repeated- all
their mannerisms in the new parts, along
with their physical, peculiarities. In return
for the musfc, which, while not Verdi’s best,
has power and variety; tlie audience, had to
swallow a lot on . the dramatic side. “Un
Ballo,” originally written . round the, assas-
sination of Gustavus[ 111. <of Sweden, was
afterwards transferred to Poston,, New Eng-
land, America,‘because there was an attempt
“Her feet pointed one this way and the
other nearly quite the other way.”
on the life of Napoleon 111. just before its
world premiere in 1858, and the authorities
forbade a production dealing with the assas-
sination of a king. The slaughter of a
colonial governor didn’t matter so much.
The opera might have been transferred to
Dingo Flat without losing any of its artifi-
ciality. It has cost J.C.W. a mint of money
to transport its princijials from Italy for
the present season, but 100 years ago the
British Government gave free transport to
Australia to a lot of people for lesser crimes
than that which occurs in the last act, when
Governor Riccardo, reclining on a chair at
a masked ball, melodiously forgives his mis-
tress’s husband for having stabbed him in
the chest; and his enemies for having assisted
in the plot,' while the lady and the revellers
fall on their knees, followed by the coii-
science-smitten husband and the conspirators,
and all join in a funeral hymn. Among other
items over which a modern audience has to
swallow hard, is the: darkened second act,
especially written to • enable a prima donna
to show off her voice. lt- happens under a
gallows on a heath at midnight, whither Ric-
cardo comes to keep tryst with his secretary’s
wife. Here they are discovered' by Renato,
the secretary, and the Governor hands him
his wife, heavily veiled, and tells him to
escort her home, but not. to ask her name.
The only way Anna Surarii,- as the- wife,
could have concealed her identity would have
been to sing flat. However, the cuckold, as
is the way with cuckolds on the stage, com-
pletely fails to recognise the figure of his
spouse, so some conspirators have to come
along and tear off her veil. In the next scene
Renato is revealed dragging his wife through
the doorway of their flat. Franco Izal, who
took the part of the husband, is a small man
and Anna Surani is above ordinary height.
The contest suggested a very large piece of
sugar being brought home by a very deter-
mined ant. In the scene at the masked ball
Miss Surani wore a mask with a fringe,
which gave her the appearance of being the
possessor of an enormous white moustache.
Izal is a very conventional operatic barn-
stormer, the Surani is no actress, and if the
other principals had come in riding on wooden
horses they couldn’t have looked more idiotic;
so it says something for the music and the
singing that the production was a triumph;
partial but definite. Izal sang magnificently
and had to repeat “Eri Tu,” the somewhat
snivelling aria, in which Renato reveals his
grief - Bruna Castagna. as the Sorceress, who
is thrown in early in the piece to intensify
the sinister atmosphere (which she com-
pletely fails to do), spangled Act I, Scene 2
with melody: the Surani poured emotion into
the aria “Ma dall’ arido” with no miserly
hand ; and tenor Bernardi let himself go as
the injured Governor. Carmencita Mas-
cagni, as Oscar, the page, wrote gaiety and
pertness into the tale of woe; and it was
badly needed. For, truth to tell. “Un Ballo”
is so solemn that a picnic in a mortuary
chapel with a corpse would be jolly by
comparison.
* ¥ Y-
Moiseiwitsch in Sydney Town Hall last
week played two concertos with an orchestra
supplied by the Sydney section of the Broad-
casting Commission. Benno gave a spark-
ling performance of the Tschaikowsky, and
emphasised the beauties of the less familiar
Rachmaninoff work. The orchestra, seeing
that it was not a permanent one, responded
well to the beat of E. J. Roberts, but at
times was not sufficiently assertive. The
Commission’s policy of engaging visiting
celebrities in such a way makes the for-
mation of permanent orchestras of a strength
at least 40 in Sydney and Melbourne an
urgfent necessity.
¥
For a long time City Organist William
McKic has been trying to popularise Johann
Sebastian Bach in Melbourne. He has given
magnificent midday recitals which have
attracted almost as much interest as a dog
fight on the Town Hall steps. The trouble
about Mr. McKie is that he labors under
the disadvantage of being a musician who
is solely interested in music. There are a
lot of people in Melbourne who sincerely be-
lieve that they are interested in music. They
are to be found at present in droves round
at the Theatre Royal. The success of the
current opera season is only incidentally due
to the quality of the music. It is particu-
larly due to the appealing personality of
Signor Apollo Granforte and the remarkable
agility with which Signorina Lina Paliughi
climbs the ladder of song and hits a top*
note on the head with the precision of a stage
carpenter whacking a nail into the scenery.
It is also partly due to the fact that nobody
knows what on earth an opera singer is
singing, about, except that it is something
very primitive and' passionate, and there is
something very satisfying about being primi-
tive and passionate' when you are in dress
clothes and the footlights .are between you
and the possible consequences/ If Jack Bach
had written a couple .of bad operas Mr.
Mclvie. would have -had less difficulty in
attracting attention to his'.musical- qualities.
But he created collections of beautiful sounds
mainly designed to be sung or played in
churches, so his music, lovely as it is, is
under the same, cloud as the dullest Sunday
sermon. People prefer mystery hiking to the
hills, or, opera. However, there : was a fair
attendance to witness the opening gun of
the Bach offensive at the Town Hall on
Saturday, and the audience, got good value
for its money. It is true that Soloists
Muriel Cheek, Elizabeth Galbraith, Isabel
Biddell,, Francis Palfrey and Harold Murphy
hardly did, justice to the airs 'and duets in
the “Magnificat,” lhit a poor copy of a good
picture is better than a good .copy of a poor
picture, and the Bach , Festival choir con-
ducted by Fritz Ilaid; made : up for any de-
ficiency, in the-choruses. The Fantasia and
Fugue -in, G'. min or for organ gave Mr. Melvie
an opportunity- of showing his musicianly
qualities. The ‘Suite in -D major, played by
the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra under
William ..'James’s direction, was the jolliest
thing imaginable, and the cantata, '‘Sleepers,
Wake,” conducted by Herbert Davis, was
much more dramatic than “Lucid di Lammer-
■mpor” and/five times more melodious. There
will be daily organ recitals during the re-
mainder of the week; to-night there will be
a performance of the composer’s secular
numbers, including the Brandenburg con-
certo, and on Saturday the glorious Mass
in B minor will be delivered in its entirety
by the Victorian Postal Institute Choir and
the Professional Orohesti'a.
* v *
Jack Russell, a young American with a
capacity for making himself up like an
antique caricature of Fritz Hart, is singing,
dancing and comeding for his bread and
butter at Melbourne Tivoli. As a vaudeviii -
artist lie is an all-rounder and his character-
acting is effective without being noisy. In
“Hello Everybody,” the first of a threatened
series of weekly changes, he is a millionaire
who inadvertently assists Len Rich to elope
with Evelyn du Fresne, his ingenue daughter,
and he extracts the last atom of fun out of
the. situation. Harry Burgess, as Evelyn’s
military fiance, makes good business out of
fewer ' opportunities of character-acting.
There is more than the usual amount of leg
to supplement the levity, and Harry Ross.
William Gleeson, Charles Davis and John
Sulliyan, rechristened the Russell Four for
the occasion, import excellent, male harmony
into the proceedings.
*
“The Lilies of the Field,” by John Hastings
Turner, blossomed at the Sydney Savoy last
week under the care of the Pickwick Theatre
Group. It is a tender plant, and it '.wilts
towards the end. The lilies are the twin
< daughters of the-Vicar of Wideleete. Their
grandmother proposes that the twin who-
most impresses Barnaby Iladdon shall
go back with her for a season in London.
Catherine, the junior by 13 minutes, be-
witches the young man at their first meeting,
but Elizabeth,, who attires herself in early-
Victorian garb, completely bowls him over.
Elizabeth goes to -London, and discovers to
her annoyance that- she must continue to act
as a prude from a bygone age or she will
lose Barnaby. She confesses that she doesn’t
care twopence for what she has been preach-
ing and practising. Barnaby reveals that he
knew it all along, and it makes no difference.
Curtain: Elizabeth, in backless gowm, in
Barnaby’s arms. Anne Gordon played Eliza-
beth unevenly, but shows promise. No rah
Cazabon was well suited as the tomboy
Catherine, and Clive Coppard was present-
able as Barnaby.
“The second it feels your weight it snakes
from under you.”
The Wentworth Players, at St. James’s
Hall, Sydney, tackled T. W. Robertson’s Go-
year-old “Caste.” It was an f.a.q. perform-
ance. Carlotta Rankin-Smith was at home
a s the Marquise de St. Maui - , and Kay Mur-
doch, as Polly Eccles, and Betty Burrows,
as Esther Eccles, filled the bill. Ken llarget
admirable as the tippling Eccles after
j' e the mummers' into
4- alsh 1 cßed Tt e youn £ nuunmeis in
sna P • %. x *
. ....... T „ ...
Neill r a vlv /
l 1 mi ° / n tO -night (Wednesday)
and Thursday at Melbourne Princess. I>ett\
M. Dayies s play is one, of the few Australian
dramas worthy of the name which have gone
beyond a single presentation. Since its
promere four years ago a the Playhouse
bas been performed in Sydney, Adelaide an
Brisbane and been under consideration by a
English- reirertory aompany lima Janetsk
be m charge of the scenery and hgbfi „•
“The Barretts of Wimpole-street” is doing
• gobd business at His Majesty’s, Brisbane.


ms
ms
&
mg
m
gpp
fjlKSp-yP!
Wir'rHßti*
bm
w
u?^fF?
&
pq
::
EsTi’rrOs?
o
o
alssiiiisi;:;
0
O
r
1
These new blades have been a triumph!
No one thought it possible to make
such perfect blades at so low a price.
Users are telling us that they realise at
last what a safety razor shave can be.
Keenness beyond words. Velvety, glid-
ing smoothness. And the price—five
for a shilling and sixpence! Try them.
Every dealer sells Seven o’clock blades
lor double-edged razors.
n
DOUBLE EDGE
X MADE IN ENGLAND
-
m
us
lo
as,
tto.
'is.
tfr
X
CELESTINS is the
NAME Of THE SPRING
SEAL OF GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVERY BOTTLt
ETAT MEANS
•STATE Vl*
OWNED BY THE .
STATE OF FRANCE ’
DOTTLE O it GUARANTEED
PURE DV THE FRENCH
COVERNMENT
w
The .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen-
ocity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Watsre.is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
c&he following statement defies contradiction t
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but , when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
_to have and what vou should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under tts super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheum,i,•
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
'■< complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the -forld.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.,
Gxamine the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes.
Sole Agents tor Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER, 16
VICTORIA:
Bridge Street, Sydney, AV.
WEST AUSTRALIA;
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS
Messrs. Curcier Aclet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
r THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUMT9 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: PI. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Deafness
Wilson’s Ear Drums relieve Catarrhal Deafness;
stop Head Noises; make words more distinctly under-
stood ; restore hearing by taking the place of
perforated' or destroyed natural drums.
Price, £l/2/- complete. Write for Booklet.
,T. WILSON EAR DRUM CO.,
225 Collins Street, .Melbourne, Cl.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
BALANCE-SHEET of
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
'lncluding London Office at 21 st May, 1932
At 30th JUNE, 1932.
Darwin (Northern Territory) at Slat May, 1932; New Zealand, Currie, Cairns, Home Mill, Ingham, Julia Creek, (Mackay ,
Proserpine and Townsville Branches at 20th June, 1932.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
211,735 Preference Shares 'paid in cash to £lO per_
share . . . ~ ~ .. •, iz,ii7 ,ooi' u
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares paid in cash to 10s. per
share •• , , , , .. . #• •• u
4,211,735
Reserve Fund . . . .
Exchange Adjustment Reserve
Profit and Loss Account . .
Notes in Circulation . , ..
Bills payable and Other Liabilities, i
for Contingencies
Government Deposits—■
Not Bearing Interest •
Bearing Interest
Other Deposits—
Not Bearing Interest
Bearing Interest
Balances due to other Banks
Contingent Liabilities, as per Contra
£4,117,350 0
. 2,000,000 0
. 250.000 0
. 212,658 13
0
0
O
10
-£6,580
178,
,008 13 10
350 10 0
•hiding Reserves
. . £54.262 12
. . 197,396 18
. . 7,570,662 2
. .13.879,286 10
. . 1,053,407 18 4
0
8
-21.701
! 622
,607 17 10
561 18 3
,044 16 7
£80,135,981 14 10
\SSETS
Coin, Bullion, Australian Notes and Cash at Bankers. .£3,509,903 0 10
Money at Call and Short Notice in London . . . . 170,000 0 0
British War Loan Stock and Commonwealth Treasury „
Bills in London .. .. • • • • 453,3‘12 1 o
Short-dated Commonwealth and New Zealand „ _
Treasury Bills . . . . .. • • • • 2,721),166 0 0
Government, Municipal and other Public Stocks and
Funds, and other Debentures, less provision
for Contingencies .. .. .. . • 929,318 11 o
Bills Receivable in London and Balance of Remit-
tances and Drafts in transit . . .. 925,719 12 6
Notes and Bills of other Banks . . . . . . 64.119 18 3
Balances due from other Banks . . . . • • 188,499 o 1
Stamps . . 14,740 15 0
e of provision for
-£8,984,799 2 2
Bills Discounted, and other Advances exclusive
or Doubtful Debts . .
Real Estate, consisting of Bank Premises . .
Liabilities of Customers and others in respect of Contingent L
as per Contra
Bad
..19,412,157 16 1
.. 1,116,980 0 0
abilities,
. . 622,044 16 7
£30,135,981 14 10
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries and Allowances—Head Office, and
Agencies
„ Rent and other Charges
Net Profit for the year
To Reduce Bank Premises
„ Interim Dividend at 4' per cent, per annum
paid February, 1932
„ Balance
£265,005 13 10
By Amount of Profits, after deducting Interest Accrued on Deposits and
Rebate cn Bills Current, and after making a transfer to
Reserve for Contingencies, out of which account provision has
been made for bad and doubtful debts, fluctuations in invest-
ments and other contingencies, and after making provisi "
Income, Land and Other Taxes . .
By Balance from last year
„ Net Profit for the year
By Balance
T PH ARLES HERBERT TRANTER General Manager of The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the Reserve hand,
tho E'xchaniTAdjuslmeSiiSu-w and aiSimuuS pvoL arc need in the business, and that the accompanying Statement and Balance-sheet ot the Bank is, to the best ot
my
Melbourne- KOBIET CHANcSoB MISAEES Solicitor, Melbourne: ACHALEN WOOLLISCEOFT PALEREYMAN, Manufacturer, Melbourne; WILLIAM HOWELL
SWANTON, Merchant, Melbourne; ARTHUR SYDNEY BAILLIEU, Investor Melbourne. nf Victoria rendering
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the I ail am ' n
Dersons making a false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
DECLARED at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this ?>lst day of July, One thousand nine hundred and thirty two. mnw-VEP
Before rae-MA H. PHILLIPS. . . „ . „ „ . • LKAJN
A Commissioner for taking Declarations and Affidavits wader the “Evidence Act 1915 S


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
tThemistocles 12,500 tons, Sept. 6
*Nestor . . 14,500 „ Oct. 18
£ Ceramic . . 18,500 „ Oct. 25
*Anchises . 10,000 „ Nov. 29
•First class only. fFirst and third class.
♦Cabin class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
£241,34!
£3,500,000
£900,000
Subscribed Share Capital
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . . . .
Total Reserves approximately . .
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders Trustees approximately
Area Planted .. ' .
I 32,1 26 Acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
£500,000
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building. 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH Norwich Union Building, Wayrnouth Street, Adelaide.
bOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Ro a "L he % thr ° UghOUt C t. NeW , Zealand and Aust ™Ua, and Agencies at London,
ay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong, San Francisco, Vancouver and Paris.
m w
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Erip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
trom Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tarig
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang” : When 1 first saw him he stood
on the kerb, a spare little man in a long-
black overcoat, with a drooping straw-
colored moustache and faded blue eyes.
Under each arm was wedged a brown-paper
parcel, and from his hands, on long strings,
CHAIRMAN’S OPENING REMARKS.
CAP'N TREGONING: “And durin’ concert, Miss Blampey and Dave
Williams will sing some of their songs, with musical items
foore an’ aft.”
dangled several smaller packages, From a
shop doorway issued a majestic-looking
female who stepped across to the little man
and added another parcel to his load, say-
ing- “Now, don’t move from here, John.
I shan’t be long. I just want to try on a
new hat.” Then the friend I was waiting
tor arrived and we went into a place where
you give it a name. A little later there
entered a grubby-looking citizen, and on his
heels. the little human parcels express.
Heaping his burdens on the counter, the
little man ordered - a pot for himself and
one for the grubby gent. Four times, in
rapid, succession, he did this; then, grabbing
up liis parcels, he passed something across
to the other, receiving yet another parcel
in exchange, and, with a look of quiet satis-
faction in his eyes, walked out. “Who’s yer
cobber, Bill?” asked Bob the barman,
curiously. “Don’t know him from a bar
of soap,” replied Bill. “Spotted him standin'
outside a shop, an’ he pulls me up, an’ asks
me if I wanter earn half a dollar. I ses
Acs, I’m on.’ ‘Well,’ he ses, ‘just hang
iibout here close by, an’ when I ses "Now,”
just grab one of me parcels an’ make fer th‘
nearest pub. I’ll foller yer.’ Presently
outer the shop comes a big woman, an’ makes
towards him. He ses ‘Now!’ I grabs a
parcel an’ we both comes in ’ere. ‘E must
be a bit balmy.” Far from it, I thought,
and mentally raised my bat to a great
strategist.
* * * *
H.A.L.” ; I’ve often wondered how many
of those cases of mysterious stones falling
. 011 r <>°fs could be explained in. the same
* way as a case that occurred in Unley (S.A.)
years ago. A resident complained to the
police that every night at least a score of
rocks would strike his roof. A constable
came and kept watch; the rocks continued
to arrive. He investigated every possible
spot within a stone’s throw of the house
where the thrower could be hidden; still
the stories rattled on the iron. But one still
night the owner of the house heard a whirring
humming sound high overhead before each
lock landed. He followed the sound to its
source, to discover two lads in a backyard
nearly 200 yards away, with a huge cata-
pnlt made from old bicycle tubes rigged in
the fork of a tree. As he watched he saw
them fit a stone in the affair, walk back-
ward until the rubber was stretched to the
finnt’ and then release it, to send the stone
" hist ling over the intervening houses and
strike his. own roof. He immediately jumped
the fence and got to work with 'a bit 0 f
paling.
“John Dory”: My mate and I had been
ashore for the evening, and as we pulled back
to our packet we passed the cutter belong-
ing to old McSnorter. the crabbiest and
most particular man in the fishing fleet.
“Old Mac keeps
his boat well,” I
remarked. “Look
at the neat stow
of his sails.” My
mate agreed,
then said, “Let’s
play a joke on
him we’ll put
his jib on heels
up.” We accord-
ing 1 y unhooked
sheets and out-
haul, made the
change and re-
stowed the sail.
Next mornipg,
amid jeers from
the surrounding
cutters, old Mac
iound that he
had the sheet of
his jib up near
the masthead
when he made
sail. We repeat-
ed the trick again
at the following
week - end, and
this time Mac
called us all
dreadful names.
Next time he
came in I had a
brainwave, and
about midnight I
sculled .softly
over to his
paek e t, merely
undid the gasket,
altered the stow
of the jib a tiny,
bit, and repassed
the gasket again.
In the morning-
old Mac set his
mains’l. hove up
his mud-hook and
then ran for-
ward to set the
jib. One glance
showed that it
was not as he
m , , . liad left it, and
d: I ? ve bm foolin’ wi’ ma sails
agen have ye? Weel, ye’ll no catch me
this time. He accordingly unhooked sheets
and outhaul, changed the sail end for end,
caught nold of the halliards, hoisted away
and, then, speechless with rage, went sailing
through the fleet with the jib topsides below
tor the third time in succession.
“Bill O’C.”: The crow isn’t generally
given credit for altruism or courtly manners,
but here’s evidence of it. A friend, who is
an excellent natural observer, noticed a
number of the black outlaws prospecting for
worms in a paddock, each crow working on
his own patch. Their method, as customary,
was to turn over likely stones, and dried
cow-dung with their strong bills. One
POSITIVE PROOF.
Scottish Undertaker (at the funeral of a man who had suffocated himself with gas) :
"Aye, puir McGleechie was clean daft, an’ no’ responseeble.”
THE MEENISTER: “And why are you so sure of that, Mr. McTavish?”
MCTAVISH : “Mon he left the gas tairned on, and him dead above an hour.”
crow was tackling a stone too big for
his strength when a black brother at a
little distance, seeing his difficulty, flew
across, placed his frontal . crowbar' in the
right position, and, calling for a mutual
heave, saw the thing accomplished. Then
A umber 2, with what must have been a
courtly bow and a murmured “Don’t men-
tion it; your stone, sir, I believe,” flew away
at once back to his own pitch, leaving his
mend to prospect the opened-up area alone.
, • e way, doesn’t the crow also invite
all his friends to the banquet when he has
discovered a tasty bit of carrion? A bush-
living- relative used to make up a realistic
bit of crow ; talk, intoning it properly, run-
ning something like this: Crow No. 1 (stac-
cato) : Come here! Come here!” No 2
(indifferently interested, at a distance) :
M hat is it? What is it?” No. 1 : “Dead
horse. Dead horse!” No. 2 (suddenly alive
to it) : here? Where?” and so on. I’ve
heard it too often to doubt the meaning of
the conversational exchange.
i i : A touch of humor and a know-
ledge of psychology will often help a man in
a tight corner. A seedy-looking individual
wandered up to me and said: "I want 2s.
and I want to be honest. It is not for a
starving wife and children, but I want two
glasses ot beer now and two more to-night.”
I here was a disarming ring of truth in this
appeal and the florin passed over. “Thank's”
was the response; “the money will be spent
on food, but Ive found I have a better
chance of getting it if I say it’s for booze.”
“Markham”: The primitive savage of New
Guinea continues to progress with civilisa-
tion. A friend, recently returned from those
parts, tells me that a party of them recently
raided a leasehold on the Ramu River taken
up by two partners, Schmidt and Peden, and
speared and ate some of their cattle. This
is something new for the N.G. savage, though
it. was and. is a common enough occurrence
with our Binghi. The natives later attacked
the settlers, wounding one of them, and tried
to burn them out by firing arrows carrying
flaming tufts of dried grass into the roof
of their hut —a new one to me for these
people. The Matabele used burning assegais to
set thatched roofs alight, and the Australian
abo. was wont to throw burning firestieks
on the bark roofs of the old-time homesteads
with the same intent. The only time I have
seen the arrow' thus used was on Gallipoli; a
Light Horse major employed this means of
lighting up No-man’s Land with bunches of
burning tow attached to arrows propelled by
an improvised bow. Later when more scien-
tific illuminations came along be dropped
his ingenious idea.
* =;: * *
“Mukinbudin”: Cures for snoring? I
spent many hours of those allotted to slumber
listening to the variations of tone of my
friend Morgie before he decided to make his
fortune in m.-0.-p. at Broome. Eventually,
deciding not to make a fortune after all, he
resumed big bed next to mine; but he no
longer disturbed the peace at nights. Not
only pleased, but puzzled, I made inquiries
through the channels most likely to render
an authentic explanation. It .is this: to
snore, one opens one’s mouth. Pearling
luggers abound with cockroaches, great in
size, number and variety. And the lesson
to be learned before the second night out is:
don’t spore.
* * * *
o “Larrapinta”: Tell “Brady’s Lookout” (B.
13/7/ 32) that the stone tools found on Kan-
garoo Island by officials of the S.A. Museum
were not used by Tasmanian lubras- taken
there by sealers. They were found on what
had been the shore of a. lake in bygone ages,
and not on the present shore line. The
relics, which are at least 30,000 years old,
are so numerous, and scattered over such
a wide area as to indicate that a native
population had camped around the spot for
ages. I advise “Brady’s Lookout” to read
“Traces of the Extinct Prehistoric Native
I opulation on Kangaroo Island,” bv Tindale
and Maegmith.
* * * *
“Tano”: The Maori method of crossing
swift turbulent streams is unique. Main-
taining an upright position and taking a
slanting course downstream, they literally
walk the waters, the swift current bearing
them onwards. This is accomplished by
treading water in a way unknown to the
pakehar—l’ve never known a white man who
could acquire the knack of it.
WHERE THE LACHLAN FLOWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dawning on the Lachlan, flats mile-wide and
green, \
(’arolling- of magpies beneath the swaying
trees;
Daybreak on the Lachlan with its wondrous
sheen,
Then the morning’s glory—the cooling
river breeze.
Noontide on the Lachlan —all flu- land
aswoon ;
Rolling leagues of verdure far as eye can
gaze ;
Flocks of ibis resting near the,still lagoon;
Cattle slowly stringing along the dusty
ways.
Sunset on the Lachlan—all the world aglow ;
Quivering, fading lights that flood the
valley and the plain,
Crimson, saffron, opal, one by om* they go
Muttering of thunder, scent of coming
rain.
Moonlight on the Lachlan, silvering distant
peaks;
Moonbeams on the ridges bathed in splen-
dor bright,
Filling all the valleys, gleaming on the
creeks;
Elves and fairies dancing down the ways
of night.
N.S.W.
WALTER S. WHITE.


WINTER 1932
w
INSTANT STARTING
INSTANT ACCELERATION
THE SHELL COMPANY LIMITED
51272
“Cooramin” : Some of the split-rail fences
on station properties have stood so long that
they have acquired an historic interest. One
by a roadside on the Darling Downs (Q.),
forming the boundary of Glengallan run,
was erected over SO years ago; and is still
good—a striking testimony to the durability
of Australian hardwood. The boundary-
rider's! hut, which was built at the same
time, and often housed Pat Leslie, the first
Queensland squatter, is also still in use.
Glengallan was originally part of the. Leslie
holding, but when it was found that. he had
taken up more than the Act permitted, it
was given to Archie and Colin Campbell, the
Leslies • retaining Toolburra and Canning
Doiyns. Later the old run became the pro-
perty of AY. B. Slade, now of Blink Bonnie,
in the Warwick district, and his son, O. C.
Slade, breeder of stud merinos, now occupies
Glengallan. On many of the first runs, in-
cluding Toolburra and Canning Downs, long-
lengths .of the original fences remain.
?<: * if
“Taltingan”: Black Brother never could
have been numerous west of the Darling in
N. S. Wales, though he must have found
RECIPROCATION.
BACK-OF-QUEENSLAND COCKY (to neighbor on other side of boundary fence ). Having
a bit of my mutton?”
NEIGHBOR: “Yairs. Tie yer horse up and come an’ have a bit yerself, for a change.
pretty good tucker along the river; oft it
he probably covered a lot of ground, as he
:loes to-day. Blacks and half-castes living
black still number 499 in the big Broken
Hill police district, but not more than one-
fourth of them are genuine nomads; the
others are either in regular jobs or have
more or less settled down in supervised
camps. Even the nomads, though they’ve
done more wandering than usual the last
two years, go into camps for most of the
summer handy to Government rations: Wil-
cannia is best for that purpose. It’s not
much good trying to make them what the
white-pfeller would call comfortable. Years
ago Johnnie Brougham, of Poolamacca, one
of the best friends the dying remnant ever
had, built them a big circular barn, with the
roof open to the skies in the centre, and
comfortable pens all round on the inside.
They went in like a mob of kids at a picnic;
but within a month the last of them were
back in their bark and bough wurlies, happy
with their dogs and their fleas. There are
more bucks than gins among the present
nomads, though the old custom allowed a
buck a pair of ladies. There is a legend
that the first black-pfeller on the Lower
Darling had two wives, Kilparra and Mok-
warra. It was handy, because the sons of
the one could marry the daughters of the
other, which, so the story runs, they did.
But there’s little of legend to be got out of
the present poor remnant, which is the
sweepings-up of several tribes.
“Harold Hardupp”: The coming of the
Anzac Memorial in Hyde Park, Sydney, has
pronounced the doom of the surviving section
of the park’s once extensive avenues of
Moreton Bay figs. They have to go, to
make, way for the lake effects on both sides
of the memorial. The rooting processes of
this species of tree have told heavily against
its erstwhile popularity. The roots dig their
way to water or damp places in a weirdly
determined fashion. When a blockage in
a water-main opposite the Museum was in-
vestigated it was found that a big fig far
across the road and well inside Hyde Park
had thrown out 'a root which had forced
tendrils into a join in the main. At the
time of discovery there was a large growth
of root inside which had broken the
main. It was this bad habit that made it
necessary to abolish all Moreton Bay figs in
the vicinity of the City Railway tunnellings.
❖ *
“Guiau”: “Kiriwina” (B. 27/4/’32)
rather stretches the long bow. I would
back a Mailu lugumi or a Kiwai double-
outrigger canoe against the Trobriand
icaga. On the Ivula ceremonial trading it
would be impossible to take “many” tons
of yams. The largest waga I’ve seen
couldn’t carry more than two tons. Some
of the Kiwai canoes could carry much
more than this. And the Trobrianders don’t
use coir to tie the planking of the canoe.
A certain swamp creeper, far more service-
able, is preferred. It is dried in the
sun and then soaked in water, and stands
up to the weather better than twine and
rope made of pandanus fibre.
“Tamata”: The papers in the southern
cities are making a lot oLfuss about the
hardships endured by Archdale Parkhill, a
politician, who has been touring the iai
north with a luxurious safari of motor-cars.
It is stated with horror that on one occa-
sion when the tucker car wins delayed, the
tourist had actually to eat goat. If he never
gets anything worse he will have no reason
to complain. Young goat is the equal ot
the best lamb in tenderness and flavor,
though it carries no fat. On many of the
outback cattle stations where ration sheep
INTANGIBLE ASSETS.
HUBBY (reading): “Y’know, I don’t like all this metaphorical stuff. I wonder what
exactly this writer feller means by ‘gems of thought'?”
WIFIE: “Oh, -probably something just like that ring you’re always promising to buy me.
are not kept, goat is a welcome change from
the everlasting beef. Goat has also been a
standby for many of the islands, especiallj
in Papua. In the long ago, before cold stor-
age was instituted, even the haughty aristo-
crats of the Government service in their iort
Moresby dug-outs ate goat when they were
lucky, enough to get it.
:>c V
“Wyara”: Fraser Island, off the South
Queensland coast, has a chain of strange
lakes. These contain fresh water, and,
although at an elevation of 350 ft., rise and
fall with the tides of the sea. 3 hey are
reputed to be very deep, _ and their tidal
movements suggest connection with the sea
by subterranean channels. The _ water in the
lakes is clear, cool and refreshing, but goes
bad after a day or two of keeping Sur-
rounded by dense sub-tropical jungle, the
lakes were regarded with aversion by the
blacks who used to live on the island as
fish do not swim in them, nor have birds
even been seen resting on the water.
:J: * *
“TY1”: How does a fox find the nests of
kittens in rabbit burrows? Here we have
a nice big warren. Brushy comes along, has
a good look around that warren and starts
to dig. Maybe it’s 20 feet from the nearest
hole, maybe only five. However, down he
digs. He may go down a foot, or he may go
down three feet, but soon he strikes a
tunnel. A few inches along either way and
there’s a nest containing four to eight baby
rabbits —just a nice entr6e for a fox’s
dinner. Sometimes Reynard starts to dig
and then turns the job in. In that case
we used to get a shovel and dig straight
down. Sooner or later we’d strike the
tunnel and the nest, but there would be no
young rabbits there. Now T , how the dickens
did the fox know that?
* * * *
“Reff”: Looking out of a window while a
howling storm raged I saw a tip-top towing
job carried out. Hanging on to the lawn
was a fledgling sparrow, evidently blown
out of its nest. Down flew Ma. excited
and full of advice. The youngster took
a firm hold of Mum’s tail with its beak and
fluttered for all it was worth. Mum’s wings
moved rapidly and she rose slowly, towing
the young pest safely up to the spouting
again.
❖ * * *
“Pagoda”: A Japanese diver reports hay-
ing seen a peculiar ebony-colored growth in
23 fathoms on the Sahul Bank, n.-w. from
Bathurst Island (N.T.). As he drifted over
the sea-bed searching for shell his progress
was barred by a smooth jelly-like growth
which was gently swaying to the movement
of the tide. Grasping it with his hand, he
was startled to find that it hardened within
a few seconds to what he _ afterwards
described as the hardness of a billiard ball.
Realising that there was a danger of getting
diver’s paralysis from working against the
current, he drifted away, but curiosity led
him back to the same spot an hour or so later,
The stuff had then resumed its original soft-
ness, and with a sharp knife he endeavored to
Xt that stuff is?
*
“Taliune” : The turpentine piles mentioned
(r. 25/5/’32) are mere toothpicks along-
si( j e the lengths sent from Southern las. a
j ew yearg ago for the Dover harbor works,
These were of blue gum, hewn square, loin,
by d gi n ., a nd 20in. by 20in., up to KMnt.
length. A piece of blue gum measuring
146 ft in i cn gth, l<Sin. by 6in., sawn clear ol:
bea rt and sap, was sent to London irons
jjobart in 1851. The longest baulk produced
j n Tas . taped 160 ft.
* * *
“j^w’. A part of the bush that has
always been a puzzle to describe is the
dense vegetation that usually covers the
ranges and riversides | the common
name, as the famous Bi 0 pciub
Tweed; but scrub is dT'SloTind
to low thickets, such as bendi, bn»alow ana
mulga, and to dense tracts of. shrubs like
“dead finish.” Another torn is bn. , •
the well-known Manning Brush; but brush
is really undergrowth and -weeds, and doesn t
give abater nndere and.ng-uf what , a
meant than scrub. Many wnters nave uc
scribed it as fig scrub yine scrub and ra.u
forest. The best word is jungle, ntiweui
forest and jungle is the difference of two
worlds; both the veg=tatro„ and he btrd
life are different Th e A ustrebap jungle w
a tangle of giant tiees and matted \i
where the sun never enters, where the beauti-
ful furniture woods grow and the loveliest
birds are found. Neither these trees nor
the birds invade the forest country. Alon B
the eastern regions the jungle growths have
commenced on the ranges and have spre
along the streams by the agency of floods
covering every big ben,i where the waters
have flowed over the banks BdeSelv
are many isolated hills just as densely
covered, with plain and open forests around
them. If these originated through birds
carrying the seeds, beginning with the giant
figs, the query intrudes as to why the vege-
tation is so rigidly confined to particular
areas, the surrounding favorite
equal. The jungle s the re abided
hunting-ground of the abos., foi there abided
the scrub wallaby, the scrub tin key and
numerous pigeons.
RED JACKET
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There sailed a tall ship, and she was a crack
packet,
All taut up aloft and all sound down
below,
From New York to Liverpool, called the Red
Jacket,
Across the wide ocean to go.
She, was fast as a swift or an Aberdeen
clipper,
And I was the mate and Old Eldridge the
skipper.
We set all plain sail as we struck the Blue
Peter,
When out sailed the Lightning from Boston
to beat her!
The Old Man sang out, “Set t’gan’s’ls an’
sky-s’ls!
"With stu’n’s’ls on courses, an’ tops’ls an’
tri’s’ls!”
The Bed Jacket flew, with the Lightning
behind her—
Half-drowned in our wake and the foam fit
to blind her!
Our skipper yelled: “See yer in Liverpool,
hlast yer!”
“Ye may catch the Red Jacket, hut never
get past her!”
No sail was clewed up, and no man cast a
jersey,
’Till we came to an anchor half-way up the
Mersey!
The Lightning rolled in about eighteen hours
later....
While me and Old Eldridge was at the
the-ayter!
(Belay!)
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


OLD GOLD AND BROKEN JEWELLERY PURCHASED
At highest ruling rates.
Special Services available for country clients.
BUYERS AND SELLERS OP
New Zealand Notes, English Notes, English Silver, and all Foreign Currency.
ROYAL GOLD & CURRENCY EXCHANGE CO.
40 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. 'Phone 85417.
Head Office,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment. Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Persona! Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and tor cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company's offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
TO-DAY
To-day is the to-morrow you were thinking of yesterday.
There is hardly anything that the average person procrastinates
about quite so much as money-saving, despite that the same average
person has a comparatively small income, knows that he must spend
carefully and save wisely, and knows, too, the best way to do it.
Have you done, to-day, what you yesterday put off until to-
morrow?
You can open a Savings Bank Account anywhere, because the
Commonwealth Savings Bank is represented in every district in Aus-
tralia, and with any amount, from one shilling upwards.
It is so easy—you have only to register your signature and deposit
your shilling (or more) and you will have started on your saving
campaign—to-day.
Commciiwcaltl) Savtolank of Australia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government ).
SMOKE-OH!
“Found, pound note. State when, where”
—“S.M.H.” advt.
Exactly ! We’re all curious.
y y
“Education in Scotland is free and compulsory.”
Now find the redundant word
y y
“Free pattern for a useful skirt.”
— “Woman’s Mirror.”
The job is to find a useful skirt to wear
a useful skirt nowadays.
y y
“Wanted, refined Girl assist 'house and milking.”
— “ A dc.”
This is the first time wove seen proper
consideration paid to the feelings of well-bred
cows.
y y
HINTS FOR HOME WALLPAPE RER S.
Let the choice of a suitable paper be your
fiist consideration. The procedure is simple.
Mention to the salesman that you wish to
see some wallpapers.
It will be your last
word on the subject.
Rou'si n g yourself
from your slumbers
or returning from the
pub a couple of
hours later, you will
no t e a homicidal
gleam in the honest
fellow’s eye; that is,
i f it is visible be-
hind the mountain
of rolls your wife
will have made him
get down. This is
the time to avert an
outburst by suggest-
EVE: “It’s a bit jazzy, but not bad for your
first attempt at tuckpointing.”
ing an adjournment for lunch or tea. as the
case may be.
Cutting the Edges.
Accuracy and patience arc all that you
need for this operation. After you have
cut them, put the paste on and started to
hang, you will find that they only touch here
and there, and that large spaces of wall are
visible in between. Continue hanging. If
effect is still unsatisfactory pull all paper
off (provided it hasn’t dried on you) and
lap the edges, which is what you’d have done
at first if you’d had any sense.
Mixing the Paste.
Use hot water and stir thoroughly, leav-
ing no lumps. Put paste on back of
paper with large brush, taking care none
gets, on the front of it. When the paper
is up take all the daubs off the front with
a clean rag. After it has dried out you
will observe large spots on the surface.
These will be the lumps which you left in
the paste, and which are now behind the
paper.
Number of Rolls.
You will have made your calculations pre-
viously, of course, as to the required num-
ber of rolls. You will in consequence be
either three rolls over or about the same
number short. In the former event your
wife will find she has lost the bill and the
firm will refuse to take the surplus ones
back. In tin' latter, they will turn out io
be short of that particular pattern.
Atmosphere.
The work is best done to the accompani-
ment of a running fire of criticism and com-
ment from the wife, as it will put you in
a suitable mood for the trickier phases. If
the home is blessed with children invite
them in, with their little friends, to help you.
If there is one thing more than another the'
tots in the vicinity of the two-year mark
love it is to be allowed to play with daddy’s
paste-bucket, brushes, etc., while he is on
the job.
S. W. K.
y y
Ads. warn the public of li.O. —
To own, it is no joke.
No ladg,seems to want to know
A seentimcntal bloke.
V
W ill the world ever move in the direction
of Lau-sanity?
y y
All Australian Treasurers are seeking in-
creased revenue, but Lyons is the wring-
leader. ’ ,
y y
“Our special section details the movements of
the clergy.”
A sort of personal column.
y y
REBUFF.
“/ want you for my wife,” he cried,
The crafty flapper opened wide
Her eyes, and countered smilingly—
“ Your wife! What would she do with me f”
B.
y y
“When accused was informed that a crate of
bananas had disappeared,' he replied: ‘Some bird
must have taken them.’ ” — Police-court report
The evidence points to a crane.
HOW TO BECOME A D.A.S.
The chief requisites are a knowing air
and race-glasses. The latter not only add
to the illusion of sophistication but enable
you to see your horse getting well licked
Next attend two-up school and learn the
racing language. You will qualify for your
D.A.S. (Dinkum Aussie Sport) degree when
yon have satisfied professors of thieves'
slang of your ability to talk glibly of dead
birds, montes, skinners, certs
and the like.
Among punters the ordi-
nary meanings of everyday
words and phrases are re-
versed. Thus a “dead bird”
denotes a lively horse. On
the other hand, a “dead
horse” is synonymous with a
“blue duck.” Then there
are “dead stiff,” "dead slow”
and other mortuary vocables.
Don’t imagine from this,
though, that a racecourse is
a morgue: to those who
howl in the Ring (making
very different noises from
those usually emitted in
Wagner’s Ring) it is a
picnic.
Some final counsels from
a D.A.S.. who has been on
the dole since Bobby Crook
strained both wrists stopping Mug’s Game
at Robbery Park: (1) Never look a gift
horse in the mouth of a bookie; (2) never
spend the money you expect to win till you
have got it.
Norbell.
y y
“On July 9, 1932, at Lune River, to Mr. and
Mrs. A. J. late of Southport,, Narrows, .i
son (Einstein Wilber Holstein Surrey). The 20th
oili ld.” —Hobart “Mercury.”
The names prove the truth of the old
saw that a 20th child has absolutely no
luck if born in Tasmania on July 9. 1032.
y y
“Sir Philip Game said he had a soft spot in
his heart for sailors.”— “S.M.ll.”
But sailors hate soft “spots.”
y y
Ramsay MacDonald calls them Ireland’s
Lang Plannuities now.
•‘Best quality handbags reduced from 695. 6d. to
19s. lid.”— “Age?’ advt.
It’s, one of those bargains that are likely
to be snatched.
y *
“Gold cannot be dissolved by HO.”
—Metallurgical note.
But what a difference when it’s acted on
by H.C.L.!
y y
“Scotland Yard officials state that the cleverest
confidence men operating in the European capitals
are Australians.”
So now we know where our ex-politicians
go.
“I wouldn't dream of letting my wife rook
for me,”
“Is she as rotten at it as all that?”
OtJR DESPERADO.
(All Rights Reserred.)
“There was blood everywhere, A wounded gangster
became hysterical. He staggered from room to
room, cursing and groaning.
“As soon as the doctor, who had been summoned
from King’s Cross, left, the gangster.-; fled in a high-
powered car to a new address at an Eastern Suburbs
Beach.
“The leader’s first name is ‘Con,’ and his consort
and first lieutenant, a young Australian girl, is
Marjorie. His male associates are ‘Mick’ and ‘Tony.’
‘Tony’ drives their car, a stolen sedan.” — “ Sunday
Sun,” still harping on “the foreign-led gangsters
operating in Sydney.”
Not to be out of the popular movement
we, also, have teamed up with an anonymous
malefactor. Call him “Bill.” (In poitu
of tact the name is “Horace”
but it is as much as his life
is worth to reveal it.) Sleep-
ing or waking, drunk or sober,
here or there our investig i-
tor’s eyes are never off “Bill.”
He attended the last mystery
hike; our investigator walker]
with him. He shared a
Domain platform with Jock
Garden recently; our investi-
gator was underneath, looking
angrily up at him through a
crack. He gave the name
“Mr. William Makepeace
Thackeray” in the Fifty-Fifty
Club raid; ourselves figured
on, the charge-sheet as “Mr.
Chas. Dickens.” The hide-
out of his gang, which comprises L-tt-1-
N-U (poisoner). W. S-k-s (homicidal
maniac), and that popular naval man
and Government House frequenter Cap-
tain K-dd (pirate), is an exclusive Potts
Point guest-house. The fashionable hostess
has been warned by our Editorial staff of
her peril. A pogrom of her millionaire
Hebrew 7 patrons is scheduled to occur there
next Saturday, and a gifted member of our
executive has made arrangements to attend.
Watch out for our week by week reports of
the doings of Australia’s Unknown Blood-
bather. as supplied to us exclusively by him-
self. Did we mention that “Bill's” name is
really “Ananias”?
D.
y *
“Mr. Lang said he desired pease in industry.”
And so he gave it beans.
* y
TO PROSPECTIVE “ICEBERGS.”
For your initial attempt choose a grey,
bleak morning. Should a chilling rain be
lashing down, g,o much the better.
When the alarm-clock goes off, leap out
of bed and into your V’s, which should have
been left to soak in iced w 7 ater overnight.
Though you will be naturally eager to be
off. it is inadvisable to go before daylight, as
nobody will be about to see you. So wait till
the street lights go out before you sally forth
in your above-mentioned iced V’s. Feet-
covering, of course, is barred; only those
starting to crack up report to sandshoes.
Stroll slowly down to the pool; if you ruii
sneerers might think you were cold.
At the pool, you will observe a. miserable
wretch muffled in a pullover, scarf and
greatcoat. This will be the staff photo-
grapher of the “Daily Blurb” out to get
the usual weekly snaps. You will notice
others attired similarly to you, all waiting
for someone to “crack the ice.” Here is
your opportunity. Don’t gingerly test the
water’s degree of frigidity with your foot.
No ! With a joyous shout of “Well, here's
a go,” tear straight in.
As the icy water gurgles along your
vertebrae your first impulse will be to'un-
loose a torrent of oaths. This you will find
impossible for two reasons: You won't
recover your breath for approximately 25sec„
and by that time your alleged brain will
be so numbed that you will have forgotten
the words.
Someone will shout; “What’s it like in?”
But don’t be trapped into answering in the
orthodox affirmative. An inarticulate gurgle
or a "g-g-g-good-oh” doesn’t sound convinc-
ing. If the Antarctic current hasn’t frozen
your face, try to grin happily.
But, in any case, the probability is that, if
you are otherwise a normal human being,
by the time 25sec. have elapsed you will bo
out and half-way home. Either that, or on
a stretcher.
S. K.
MORE JOURNALISTIC ENTERPRISE.
In furtherance of its well-known policy of
nows puerility, the “Nit Wit” has pleasure
in announcing an intriguing new feature—
prizes for childish sayings. In order to
cater for young and old alike the contest
will be divided into two sections:
(1) Childish sayings sent in by doting
parents.
(2) Dotard sayings sent in by children.
Now, infants, young and/or old, here’s your
chance to make money out of (a) daddy’s
remarks when he comes home blotto; ' (b)
what little Horace said when mummy asked
him, oh so sweetly, why he had put kero-
sene in the milk.
Cousin Annie has wonderful news for her
little playmates and wants all to do their
best, because, besides the prizes to be won.
clever tots will be in line for staff vacancies
as they occur. Prizes will be given for the
following:
(a) Analysis of latest murder in typical
“Nit Wit” style. Open to boys and' girls
under 14 years.
(b) 500-word criticism of the Robbery
Park Cup weights. Boys, aged 2-14.
(c) Typical “Nit Wit” editorial on the
exchange problem. Boys and girls.
HIM IN THE BACKGROUND: “Rich! Why,
that feller’s got money to bum.”
HER ( ditto—and mad about it) : “Well, if
I know her, he’s found his match.”
( d ) Appropriate Biblical text for an
owner of tin-hare shares. Girls, aged 2-14.
Now children, get busy, ’cos you’re
wanted to help the “Nit Wit” out of a hole.
We can’t get any news to fill the paper with,
and some say we wouldn’t recognise it if
we got it.
Angus O’Cohen.
THU INEXORABLE LAW.
A brighter outlook in these difficult times would
he better than one of gloomy forebodings.”
— Bris. "Courier.”
The world would tte much better if we’d all
cheer up a bit,
Determinedly drop that heavy frown
And substitute a fjviu. Why all the sclent-
ists admit
It’s the force of gravity that keeps us
down!
S.


WOODS GREAT
PIPPiRMIMT
CURE
For Coughs, Colds and
Influenza.
Sold Everywhere.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officii: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
ŵ
Patents.
CIRCUIT CONTROLLING SWITCHES.
’T'HOE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 21606/29 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hussel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of Sydney.
HAIR GRIPPING FASTENERS AND
METHOD AND MACHINE FOR
PRODUCING THEM.
TTHiE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No 16257/28 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassol
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN FOLDING BOXES.
’T’ETE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
* No. 8812/22 is prepared to- negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, of Sydney.
If any illustration in Tjie Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
ẁ
6 D
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
IF YOU MUST BE PAID
TO READ THE NEWS..
....what of the advertisements?
“The Brisbane Courier” depends for circulation solely on its
wholesome, cleanly-presented news and its vigorous policy m
public questions. Subscribers buy it to read it. As a result its
circulation is the greatest and most effective in all Queensland.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland’s leading paper for 84 years.
Representative: ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 85007.
BALANCE-SHEET of
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria Limited)
AT 30th JUNE, 1932 (including the figures of the London Branch by Cable)
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital ..
Capital Paid Up ..
Reserve Fund ..
Notes in Circulation
Bills in Circulation
Deposits and other Liabilities
Profit and Loss Account
LIABILITIES.
£9,039,012 10 0
13i814 10 0
1,158,933 9 6
44,466,426 6 6
235,921 2 10
£54,914,107 18 10
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Australian Notes and Cash at Bankers £5,800,452 1 0
Money at Short Call 1,035,000 O 0
Short-dated British Treasury Bills .. .. . • 100,000 0 0
Short-dated Treasury Bills of the Commonwealth of .
Australia 4,700,000 0 0
British and Australian Government stocks and other
Securities ... 4,985,838 0 4
Bills Receivable in London and Remittances in
Transit 1,809,125 8 10
Notes and Bills of other Banks .. .. .. 300,570 10 2
Bills Discounted and other Debts due to the Bank ..
Bank Premises, Furniture, etc.
£18,952,981 6 4
34,643,030 12 6
1,318,090 0 0
£54,914,107 18 10
PROFIT AND LOSS,
To Interim Dividend for the half-year ended 31st December, 1931, _ ~
at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum, paid on 27th January, 1932 £142,170 7 6
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows:
To Dividend for the half-year ended 30th June, 1932,
at the rate of 5 per cent, per anum .. .. £118,475 6 3
~ Amount carried forward .. . . ~ .. 117,445 16 7
— 235,921 210
£378,091 10 4
By Amount brought forward from 30th June, 1931
„ Profit for the year ended 30th June, 1932 ..
£124.225 15 2
253,805 15 2
£378,091 10 4
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
J. R. DRYHURST, General Manager
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared the balances and counted the cash in the Head Office of THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED, and have compared the returns of the Branches, and have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance-sheet,
Sydney, 18th July, 1932.
F. W. HIXSON 1
H. DOYLE }
Auditors.
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Old Vienna,” at Sydney Plaza, was shown
in London as, “Congress Dances.” Had the
London title been retained, say its local
sponsors, “the historical value would have
been lost to the Australian public”! So
much for the results of our vaunted educa-
tion system. .The news that Australians are
not supposed to have heard yet is that there
was a congress at Vienna in 1815 at which
the crowned, heads of Europe discussed the
fate of Napoleon. The film shows them doing
it in an atmosphere—to quote again from the
blurb —“overflowing with lilting melodies,
laughter and love.” Most of the love is sup-
plied by Henry Garat, as Alexander I. of
Russia, and Lilian Harvey, a dear little
glove-seller. Prince Metternich (it should
be mentioned for the benefit of Australians
that lie was' an Austrian who first helped
Napoleon and then turned on him) and the
Duke of Wellington (a general who did some
useful staff work at Waterloo) plot and
counterplot while the laughter and lilting
melodies are overflowing. It is a sumptuous
production, but, like all the Ufa films seen
here to date, artificial, stilted and poorly
cast. The music is charming, but the sound
on the night this critic attended was extremely
bad.
* * #
“Arrowsinith,’’ at Sydney Capitol, has an
unusual defect in a talkie; it follows the
book too closely. The early part is redun-
dant —slices of. brief shots showing the
young doctor attending a confinement, re-
moving a child’s tooth, and otherwise wast-
ing his gifts.' The only relevant episode dur-
ing this stage is the one in which he pro-
duces a serum that. banishes a local cattle
disease. The story begins when he reaches
the McGurk Institute, and from the time ho
leaves for the plague-stricken island in the
West Indies it is all incident, excitement and
horror—particularly horror. _ It moves to
its appointed end with the inevitability l of
true tragedy, and- the finish is appropriately
grey. There are some eerie pictures of
tropical landscapes, with the terrified blacks
bearing their dead away on stretchers, and
the steamy, -foetid atmosphere is suggested
with great skill. The cast is magnificent. The
writer liked Richard Bennett (Sondelius)
best, but A. E. Anson (Gottlieb) is equally
sincere and restrained, Helen Hayes, as
Arrowsmith’s wife, is just the kind of girl a
man might expect to encounter scrubbing
a floor in a Middle West hospital. Ronald
Colman, on the other hand, is out of the pic-
ture. He portrays an American G.P. with
the voice, articulation and manner of a
London Guards officer. The production is
slow in tempo, grim, and has an unhappy
ending. Still it may succeed as “Journey’s
End” and “Young Woodley” did. Like them
it is an honest job with no cheap senti-
mentality about it.
* * *
A. P. Herbert’s “Water Gipsies,” at Syd-
ney Lyceum, makes an interesting talkie.
Add Todd, as Jane Bell, the girl on the
barge, is likeable, and so is Peter Hannan
as the artist. Hollywood would have married
them and shown the heroine crashing a
Buckingham Palace garden party, but in this
production she weds the strong, silent barge-
man, which is all to the good as regards
verisimilitude. Herbert’s other characters—
Ernie, the lift-driver, who was ravaged by
jealousy and politics; Betty Shale, propri-
etress of “The Black Swan” pub, and so
on —are well portrayed. The humor is excel-
lent, and the sentiment isn’t overdone. Yet
there were hoots of Yahoo derision on Satur-
day. Apparently it’s too English for the
Americanised section of Sydney.
“Madame Guillotine,” also at the Lyceum,
has a stereotyped plot and an indefinable
air of shabbiness. The aristos and their
equipages give a vague impression that they
would be all the better for a wash and
brush up, and the sets looks strangely mean.
In point of fact, Paris and its bedevilled
inhabitants probably looked very like that
during the Revolution, but one feels that
lack of cash rather than a passion for real-
ism is to blame for the poverty-stricken
atmosphere of this production. Brian
Ahearne and Madeleine Carroll are the stars;
the others might be called nightlights.
Sydney State offers pictures of two great:
U.S.A. industries —hi-jacking and radio. In
“Corsair,” Alison Lloyd is a dewy-mouthed
blonde who assails Chester Morris’s virtue.
He will neither yield to her blandishments
nor sell bad stock to widows for her father,
and so becomes a hi-jacker who preys on his
former employer’s bootlegger. After certain
excursions and alarms of a conventional
nature he is reconciled to the old man and
affianced to the girL This bilge is embel-
lished by some gaudy moonlit seascapes.
In “Are You Listening?” Madge Evans,
a singer, is loved by William Haines, who
writes those execrable radio advts. padded
with “sunshine talk.” But his wife (Karen
won’t divorce him, and when h°
kills her (it was all an accident) he and
Madge flee in disorder. Say what you like
about the Americans, they are never afraid
to expose their own social system; in fact,
half the information which the world pos-
sesses about the infamies that go on in the
U.S.A. has been acquired from the films.
The cinema is a useful publicity agent for
America’s goods, but a rotten one for its
morals. In this unedifying, not to say sordid,
picture a N. York editor promises to help
William and Madge if they will give him
the exclusive stahry of their trouble over
the ’phone. William falls in, and is
switched from the ’phone to a radio station
in which the editor is financially interested,
the result being that his confession is made
to all America. Nor is any hint given that
such behavior isn’t in accordance with the
best traditions of U.S.A. journalism. Other
nations have their press hyaenas, but they
don’t brag about them as America does.
# * #
“Taxi,” at Sydney Il'aymarket, is distin-
guished by the clever character-work of
James Cagney, as a bumptious little Irish
taxi-driver who organises a syndicate of in-
dependents to fight the combine which is
trying to drive him and his friends off the
roads. He nearly becomes a murderer, but
fails through no fault of his own. And you
are glad. He deserves something drastic for
his noisiness, volubility and conceit, but not
a shameful death.
* * *
Bichard Arlen, who has never yet failed
to rescue a girl or infant from the jaws of
death wdien required, is to the fore again in
“Sky Bride” at Sydney Regent. While
stunting with a troupe of freelance aviators,
he kills his best pal, and descends so low.
in his grief and remorse, as to take a job as a
mechanic in an aviation co. in which Ruth
Dunning is employed as sekatary. He re
habilitates himself after being suspected of
cowardice (we said cowardice, ha! ha.!) by
rescuing a child in fantastically heroic cir-
cumstances. Jack Oakie’s patter is in blithe,
chuclde-headed contrast to the austere gloom
of Mr. Arlen.
“M.G.S.”: In his remarks on “Carmen”
“Whitehall” (B. 27/7/’32) makes a trench-
ant attack on the conventions of opera, yet
all unconsciously his criticism reeks of rever-
ence for a set of new conventions, which are
just as ridiculous as those of opera—namely,
those prevalent at the movies. The other day
I surveyed a talkie after a long abstinence.
The characters were all stereotyped. There
were a well-defined hero, heroine, villain, dear
old mother and comic Jew relief. The heroine’s
face sometimes filled the whole screen, and
sometimes she was a tiny figure at the end of
a long corridor; but her awful voice boomed
on, unmodulated by distance. Sometimes her
legs, as large as a pair of full-grown gum-
trees, were seen descending a staircase, while
her voice emerged from midway between her
knees and her ankles. Every now and then
the furniture went mad and started to re-
volve furiously around her. From the news-
paper criticisms I learnt next day that she
had given a life-like presentation and that
the film was true realism. All I had seen
was a set of patches composed of chalky
white and charcoal black, which by asso-
ciation of ideas I recognised as the image of
Marlene Dietrich. To quote “Whitehall,”
the whole show, barring the music, was pre-
posterous ; and the music barbarous. But I
have no quarrel with the conventions of the
talkies, such as “Whitehall” has with the con-
ventions of grand opera. The aim of dramatic
art is not to reproduce actuality but to
express emotion. To quote G. B. Shaw, a
critic who has never lost his head over new
fashions, “When the layman walks, his only
object is to get to Charing Cross; when he
makes a gesture, it is to attract the atten-
tion of a cab-driver or ’bus-conductor; when
he speaks, it is to convey or demand infor-
mation, or tell a lie, or otherwise further
his prosaic ends; when he moves his hands,
it is to put up his umbrella or to take out
his handkerchief. On the stage these utili-
tarian purposes are only simulated ; the real
purpose is to produce an effect on the senses
and imagination of the spectator.” These
effects can be conveyed as well through the
conventions of opera as of the talkies.


BOORS
YOU SHOULD HAVE
Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/3; Wise Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/10;
The Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10; Enduring Passion, by Marie Stopes, 7/10;
Contraception'—Birth Control, its Theory, History and Practice, by Marie Carmichael
Stopes, 22/4; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the Young, by
Marie Stopes, 4/10; Exercises for Women,
by Hornibrook. 5/4; Secrets of Successful
Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale. 10/4:
Realities of Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay
Beale, 10/4; The Perfect Wife, by Dr. G.
Courtenay Beale, 1/11; The Happy Lover,
by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11; Eugenics
and Birth Control, by J. Rutgers, M.D.,
15/6; Pitfalls of Marriage, by W. M.
Gallichan, 6/3; Medical Views on Birth
Control, 6/4; Physical Culture Simplified—
A Complete Course of Physical Culture.
6/3; Knowledge a Young Wife Should
Have, by Phillip, 4/6; Mastery of Sex, L. D. Weatlierhead—a vital book, 5/4; These
Beautiful Women—Prints of Paintings from Paris Salon, 3/8; Contract Bridge, bv
Ely Cuthbertson, 8/6; Contract Bridge in Twenty Minutes, 1/11; How to Become an
Effective Public Speaker, 2/2; Mayes’ Australian Builders’ Price Book. 15/6;
Foulsham’s Letter Writer, 3/4; Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date”),
2/8; Ward Lock’s Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; The Bulletin Reciter,
2/2; Upholstery for Amateurs, 1/11; What to Do at Weddings. 1/5; Every Man His
Own Mechanic, 9/-; Home Carpentry, by .Tolin Barnard, 4/1; Aust. Book of Ready-
made Speeches and Toasts, 3/-; Boot and Shoe Repairing, 1/11; Double-bed Dialogues,
READ
MAID IN WAITING
By JOHN GALSWORTHY.
Excitement to the Last Page.
PRICE, 8/-, posted.
JUST OUT! Don’t Fail to Read
HELL’S DOORWAY
By F. J. THWAITES,
AUTHOR OF BROKEN MELODY.
Story of a young Medical Student, who was made a Plaything
of Fate.
ORDER NOW. PRICE, 6/6, posted.
1/2; Modern Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose. 3/9; Henley’S 20th Century Recipes.
28/6; Napoleon's Book of Fate, 3/4; Chetro Guide to the Hand. 4/1; Bulletin Book of
Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Prospecting for Gold (Australian),
by lon Idriess, 5/3; Novelty Evenings (all kinds of games), 2/9; A to Z of Australian
Fruitgrowing, by Rumsey, 2/2; Crystal Gazing and Clairvoyance. 6/3; How to
Repair and Restring Tennis Racquets. 3/-; Motor Repair Manual, 4/7; Motor
Electrical Manual, 4/7: The Modern Letter Writer, 2/9; Parenthood—a Manual of
Birth Control, by Fielding, 4/-; Love and Marriage, by Winifred Scott Hall, 13/-;
The Why and How of Birth Control, by Dr. Adamson. 4/7; Universal Cookery Book,
One Thousand Recipes, 1/3 —we recommend
it; Motor-cycling Manual, 4/7; How to
Drive a Car, 3/9; Canoes, Dinghies and
Sailing Punts, 2/9; Sound Film Reproduc-
tion, Just Out—Special Reference to
British Practice, 6/4; Commercial Art and
Cartooning, by Matthews, 12/9; Fresh-
water Aquaria, by Bateman. 10/9; Practical
Cartooning for Profit, by Farrow, 6/4;
Outboard Motorboat Book, blue prints.
17/-; Motorboat Manual, 9/-; Decorative
Design, 1/-; All Wave Receivers. 1/2:
Fowler's Mechanics’ and Machinists’ Pocket
—— Book. 1932, 3/10; The Modern Diesel
Engine, 4/6; Mechanical World Year-book. 1932, 3/-; Birth Control Up-to-date, by
Eason, 2/2.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR COMPLETE LIST.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Booksellers, Librarians, Tobacconists, Stationers, Newsagents, Kodak Suppliers,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
DON’T MISS
GEORGETTE HEYER’S
NOVEL OF MYSTERY.
FOOTSTEPS IN THE DARK
The First Mystery Story written
by this Author.
PRICE, 8/-, posted.
BRITISH
RELIABLE
ECONOMICAL
THE
BLACKSTONE ENGINE
AT LIQUIDATION PRICES
HORIZONTAL CRUDE OIL Sizes, 6 to 32 B.H.P.
HORIZONTAL KEROSENE - Sizes, 3 to 7 -b B.H.P.
VERTICAL PETROL Size, 3| B.H.P.
ALSO
FAIRBANKS-MORSE homelight plants
UNIVERSAL FARM-LIGHTING PLANTS
RATNER SAFES AND STRONGROOM DOORS
BISHOP WHEAT-GRADERS and DRY-PICKLERS
—ALL GENUINE BARGAINS
SEND ALL INQUIRIES AND FULL PARTICULARS OF HORSE POWER
REQUIRED
TO
CLUTTERBUCK BROS ■ (ADELAIDE) Ltd.
(IN VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION)
61 to 63 Hindley Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Telegrams: “CLUTTERBUCK.”
’Phone: Cent. 4760.
>i: -
7
Sf 7
• iii •
■ .’■■
awj
sfc
IV''
i.‘i:;*';i
1®
*W
m
m
3M&
‘M
A
WORLD FAMOUS UNDERWEAR
I English Quality- Australian Made
r) Factory Representatives for I. <£- R. Morley Pty., Ltd.
■vrnmrf* GOLLIN & COMPANY PTY., LTD.,
'C ’[s& Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth (for Q.. Yie., Tas., S.A. and W.A.),
V. J. SPAROWE, 250 Pitt Street, Sydney (for N.S.W.).
WHETHER it’s a new hat or
a suit of woollens on the
game, you’ll play better with the
freedom that IRMA gives.
This Underwear, made by Mor-
ley’s, is just right for energetic
men—just as right for those who
take their pleasures quietly.
Morley’s have studied men’s
underwear for 140 years—
successfully. That is why the
name has a world-wide reputa-
tion. You’ll see it in the knit. . .
fashioning.... finish....
quality—in every style of
garment that individual
taste demands.
Let your outfitter show
you a range of these Aus-
tralian-made garments in
pure wool, wool and silk,
wool and cotton, silk and
cotton, cotton, and art
silk. Then for the best
buy you have ever made,
give him a trial order.
AT ALL HIGH-CLASS STORES
There are full ranges of IRMA
Underwear for women also.
ẃ
Children love it.
Figsen the gentle
laxative.
m
m
m 2
CONSTIPATION
KILLS THE JOYS OF LIFE
At the first sign of Constipation—take FIGSEN. Figsen is as
prompt as it is gentle and natural. No purging. No griping
pain. . No unpleasant after-effects. Figsen acts gently on the
intestinal muscles and helps them to perform their natural
functions.
Figsen is easy to take and will not upset the most delicate
stomach. For yourself—for the kiddies—always keep a tin of
Figsen handy.
Sold and recommended by your chemist .
M.
FIGSEN
FOR CONSTIPATION
(0
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1 000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Jlead Office of The Bulletin,' 252 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office —
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.


at
lAMONC
11 CELL.-' -
<^=s
3C
Qk/ ERfjij^
I Aran . ,
r-
-j
BpNb
Tt <Uy
l/tf'
DIAMONDS j'Sr SERVICE
The gruelling and exacting battery service demanded
by Broadcasting stations can only be satisfactorily
given by Diamonds.
That is why Diamonds are used by the leading Broad-
casting stations of Australia. Their long life and
amazingly rapid recuperation guarantee dependable
and economical performance.
For the same reasons leading set manufacturers, the
P.M.G.’s Department, the Victorian Railways Signal-
ling Division, and the Navy choose Diamonds.
£fk
JS
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES-TORCH REFILLS
ẅ
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
BULK HANDLING FOR WESTRALIA.
“Wodgil”: The Australian politician has
an ineradicable belief that it is his mission
to barge into every sort of business, and
that he can do every sort miles better than
anyone else. Blind to the tragic results of
Government ownership and wage-fixing, he
is always looking for fresh fields in which
to meddle and muddle. The useful co-opera-
tive concern known as Westralian Farmers
proved last season, at its own _ expense—
erecting rough-and-ready but quite service-
able apparatus at five sidings in the Wheat
Belt—that a satisfactory bulk-handling
system, under which the entire Westralian
harvest available for export could be lifted
at the siding and discharged into ships at
the natural port, could be established rapidly
and inexpensively. In association with the
trustees of the voluntary pool. it aims to
give the Westralian farmers this boon, and
has arranged for a loan of half a million
—equivalent to £625,000 in Australian cur-
rency-—from a London financial house. This
has fired the politicians with enthusiasm —•
for a Government scheme. Their idea is that
the Government scheme should cost about
£400,000 more than the co-operative arrange-
ment, should handle only about half the
wheat, ordinarily harvested, and—charac-
teristic , touch !—ship it from One Big Port,
Fremantle. Evidently the Loan Council is
to be relied upon to finance the foolish thing.
The trustees of the voluntary pool are
prepared to take over the whole responsi-
bility of the co-operative scheme. Details
are interesting, especially as bulk handling
is being considered in two other wheat-
growing States, Victoria and South Aus. It
is proposed that 280 sidings should be
equipped with elevators (362, including 13
spares). weighbridges, etc., at a cost of
£184,000. The cost of storage bins to hold
21 million bushels is set down at £199,000.
For port equipment £185,000 is to be pro-
vided—£7o,ooo at Fremantle, £29,000 at
Geraldton, £22,000 at Bunbury and £19,000
at Albany; also £45,000 is set apart for
contingencies, and £56,000 (roughly 10 p.c.)
is to go to Westralian Farmers for "patent
rights, preliminary expenses, loan expenses,
procuration fees, preparing plans, payment
of engineers, supervision and administration
expenses and completion of installation to
trustees’ satisfaction.” The effective life of
the outfit is reckoned by the architects at
“at .least 25 years” ; the saving to farmers
now using cornsacks at 3.331 d. per bushel.
The controlling body is to consist of the
trustees of the voluntary pool, two represen-
tative wheatgrowers and a Government man.
It is proposed that the loan should be repaid
in 10 years by annual deliveries of wheat
or its equivalent to agents for the bond-
holders in London. There is a proviso that
any shortage at the end of the 10 years
should be made up by the Government on
the security of the assets created.
NEW WHEAT VARIETIES.
“George Icks” : “Finn Lee” (B. 20/7/’32)
is barking up the wrong tree. Australia
needs to establish a standard of quality for
each class of wheat that can be profitably
grown, no matter whether it is strong red
(I don’t go much on this type), strong white,
medium strength or weak flour varieties.
My objection is to the nondescript types
sent overseas as “Australian wheat.” Even
Australian soft whites, so extensively grown,
have no standard of quality —as “Finn” will
discover if he .pokes his nose into a biscuit
bakehouse. I know a well-piled loaf demands
blends; what I advocate is the need of grow-
ing “standards” to meet the overseas
demand for blending wheats —there s any
quantity of the other sort.
It’s all bunkum to say no further im-
provement can be hoped for in our wheats.
That argument has whiskers on it. As a
matter of fact, the N.S.W., Department of
Agriculture is now working on a scheme to
test varieties with a view of finding out those
most nearly approximating the objective of
“standards.” This having been done farmers
(and millers will be requested to co-operate)
will be encouraged to give the selected varie-
ties field trials. When sufficient quantities
are available trial shipments will be sent
abroad to test the market with something
different from the bag-filling varieties.
THE MYSTERY OF FERTILISERS.
“Woorinen”: This problem of fertilisers
(B. 6/7/’32) is not so simple as it looks.
Experiments have been going on for over 30
years at Rothamsted and elsewhere with
most contradictory results. Our Council jor
Scientific and Industrial Research is acting
in conjunction with the English station on a
set of experiments. The formula used is so
complicated that data obtained here is sent
to Rothamsted to be calculated. One tact
has emerged—all results obtained prior to
the last four or five years have been washed
out as inaccurate and misleading. _ Although
no definite proof has been established that
fertilisers increase yields (because so many
other factors operate in the production ol: a
crop), it is certain that those farmers who
consistently use them get better results than
those who do not. Up to date, evidence in
favor of fertilisers is empirical, not scientific.
Mr. Meeking, a member of the Vic. Dried
Fruits’ Board, has studied this question a
great deal. He says that results obtained m
other countries have no value to Australia,
because Australia is the oldest continent and
its soils have special problems. Analysis
of 90 p.c. of Australian soils shows defi-
ciency in phosphates and nitrogen, and ncii-
ness in potash. So far phosphates m the
most quickly soluble form —super, have
been mainly used, but field _ observations on
orchards and vineyards point to incieased
yields from the use of nitrogen in sulphate of
ammonia. , ,
Formerly large quantities of potash were
used in Mildura. Inquiring in that district
last year from the local research committee 1
found that manure agents reported sales ot
potash had gradually dropped to nil, whereas
nitrogen sales had increased enormously, also
sales of super Yields have steadily increased
in Mildura over a term of years, and seem
to have a certain ratio to the increased use
of nitrates. Leading officials m Vic. are
against buying “complete’ fertilisers. Their
advice is buy super, and sulphate ot ammonia
and mix them on the farm in the ratio
desired. All depends on a quick start for
the plant, whether cereal, tree or vine.
Super, and nitrogen give the necessary
fillip to growth and shove the plant
on vigorously in its early stages. I rac-
tically all the plant foods required are taken
in during spring and early summer It you
start the plant off growing at a fast rate,
given suitable rainfall, etc., it will main-
tain that rate, but once the rate of growth
is determined for that season no manure will
alter it if applied later.
FAT LAMBS FOR EXPORT.
“Goliglitly”: If N.S.W. producers of fat
lambs, have or can acquire a carcass butcher s
knowledge of weight, suitability and skin
value they will not be long in turning out
a high-class article for export. In any case,
I advise farmers interested in the produc-
tion of the right type of export lambs to
instruct their selling agents to report back
with account sales the average weight ot
their lambs sold, skin value and degree ot
suitability; also (especially those who have
not yet reached the stage of pasture improve-
ment or cropping) to try the comeback to
Dorset Horn or the three-quarter Dorset
Horn. Under unfavorable pasture conditions
I have found this cross remarkably suc-
cessful.
My practice is to buy a line ot good
merino ewes and join them with pedigree
Dorset Horn rams. Keep the ewe portion
of the subsequent drop, culling out the
roughest-haired—the balance cut a satis-
factory soft-handling clip of bulky fleeces.
When joined with pedigree Dorsets. their
lambs are wonderfully hardy and easily fat-
tened on indifferent pastures. Their skin
value has deteriorated, but this is more than
repaid bv the low-set. chubby carcass,
favored by butchers. Last season my three-
quarter-bred lambs received a setback as
suckers, first from scabby mouth and later
from grass seed, yet under hard summer
conditions were prime lambs at nine months
old. . ... ...
A first-cross Dorset-merino ewe will, like
the merino, mate at any time of the year.
Their lambs’ weight of wool is reduced, hav-
ing the double dash of Dorset blocd, but
this enables them to put on condition under
harsh pasture trials. But to act success-
fully along these lines, pure-bred rams are
essential. Seven years’ experience with
these sheep has convinced me that small
landholders in N.S.W., whose rainfall aver-
ages 18in. or more, gain considerably by
being always in a position to truck off their
surplus in the shape of prime suckers or
lambs. They won’t be caught for want of
sales and there is no waiting for the cash.
SOIL EROSION.
“N.M.F.” (B. 22/6/’32) fails
to take into consideration the fact that
where rainfall is sufficient to cause serious
erosion, it is difficult to provide proper
drainage. Very often ploughing across the
line of fall results in the land becoming
waterlogged, which may well be the greater
of the two evils. In fact, in gardens where
winter crops are grown on drills, it is essen-
tial that the furrows should run up and
down the slopes. Otherwise, the excess
water has no getaway, and standing water
will drown plants within a large radius.
One of the best methods of preventing
erosion is never to leave the ground idle
during the winter months. When a market-
able crop is not being grown a catch crop,
such as legumes or cereals, or a mixture,
should be sown. The roots will bind the
soil, and the humus provided by the
ploughed-in crop will tend to make the soil
less liable to erosion. Underground drains
which enable the soil to absorb more of the
surplus water also help.
“N.W.F,” says that “many barren patches
in the earth’s surface are entirely due to
erosion.” Possibly. On the other hand,
much of the fertile land of the world can be
traced to the same source; the valleys ot
the Nile, the Ganges and the Mississippi,
for example. To come nearer home, the
Darling Ranges contain pockets of soil
second to none in Westralia for fertility.
They are principally in the valleys and
represent the wash from the higher levels
through the centuries —in other words, the
concentration in scattered areas of the soil
of the hills which, if spread over the entire
ranges, would be useless from an agricul-
tural point of view.
It is advisable to eliminate, as far as pos-
sible, the loss in manures, which naturally
follows a period of excessive rains; but
erosion is, in a measure, unavoidable, and
any attempt to rectify it should not. be made
at the expense of other necessary winter
precautions.
GRINDING COMBS AND CUTTERS.
“Bogeye”: Bad grinding is a cause of
trouble in the shearing shed. When replac-
ing the emery-papers on the grinding discs
the new hand should see that every trace of
the old papers and old glue lias been re-
moved. If this is not done the surface is
irregular and grooves in the combs and
cutters result. Change papers frequently
and discard old papers as soon as it becomes
necessary to apply pressure to make tliepi
bite. Undue pressure on the cutters when
being ground will burn them. Refuse to
grind combs and'cutters which have not been
thoroughly washed, as dirt and grease
quickly blind the emery and shorten its life.
The outer part of the disc travels faster and
grinds more rapidly than the central por-
tion. To prevent getting the cutters thinner
on one side than the other it is therefore
necessary to reverse the positions on the
spindle of the cutter and comb discs at regu-
lar intervals. If undue grinding of either
points or heels of both combs and cutters
is to be avoided be sure the top of the
pendulum-holder is correctly adjusted. The
whole surface of the tool being sharpened
should make instantaneous contact with the
disc. Try this when the discs are stationary.
During the grinding stand square on to
the discs and keep the elbows to the sides.
Critical times are when contact is being
made with the disc and when this contact
is being broken. To ensure even contact
carefully bring the cutter or comb to within
about a quarter of an inch of the disc, and
then using both hands dab it on to the grind-
ing surface. Press lightly and swing across
the surface of the disc. Hard pressure will
either burn the cutter or give it a feather
edge. Exercise care in removing the cutter
from the disc and at all costs see that it is
not slid off. The motion is the reverse ot
that used in making contact. See that the
grinding has been sufficient by turning the
cutter to the window"; if. dull spots are
apparent it has been insufficiently ground.
DOES HORSEBREEDING PAY?
“Widgee”: We are continually being told
that the Indian Army needs horses of the
remount type and that it will pay up to
£25 for the right sort. At a big Toowoomba
(Q.) horse sale a few weeks ago. good up-
standing horses of this type, four and five
years old, were sold at £3 aiid thereabouts;
top price about £7. There is nothing in
this for the breeder. If India wants Walers
it will have to give more for them; land-
owmers won’t breed horses for the fun of the
thing—in my part of Queensland, at all
events.
Shorthorn cows are a much better proposi-
tion. Take 10 good cows which have, say,
seven calves a year. These calves, sold at
Ilomebnsli at 18 months, would bring about
£45 if prime fat, less about £8 f-r trucking,
commission, etc. Why, then, bother with
horse-breeding at the prices quoted? Mares
are costly and risky property. A good stal-
lion comes expensive and takes a lot of
looking after; also he must be fed in dry
seasons. And you must discard 25 p.c. of
the progeny as unsuitable; the Indian Army
will not take anything with the slightest
defect. Even if you got £lO a head for all
the suitable horses you breed there would be
more profit in cows. Say 10 mares have
seven foals a year and five of these are
acceptable to the Indian Army. You might
get £4O for them, after allowing £2 a head
for trucking, commission, etc.; but you'd
have to keep them until they were four years
old. And after keeping the progeny of the
cows until they are 18 months you get £3B
—this on a smaller investment of capital
and with less risk. When the Indian Army
starts to pay £2O to £25 a head horsebreed-
ing might pay ; but until then—no, sir!
THE ZEBU BLOOD.
“Barcoo”: “Dalgonally” (B. 13/7/’32)
notwithstanding, there are vast tracts in the
North which are unsuited for the British
breeds, and if the industry is to utilise this
land cattle which can stand the rigorous
conditions must be developed. That there
have been Zebus already in the North
proves nothing, as indiscriminate crossing
without aiming at a proper objective is not
progressive breeding. However, since “Dal-
gonally” has .mentioned them, it is worth
while stating that they have proved them-
selves far ahead of pure breeds for the con-
ditions they have to tolerate. Their ability
to live on pastures on which other cattle
would die, their early-fattening propensi-
ties and their freedom from ticks count for
a great deal.
Some years ago the Beaks, of Christmas
Creek, droved a mob down to Central Queens-
land owing to sustained drought in the
Charters Towers district. The Zebu crosses
were the only beasts which travelled well
and kept their condition. Another lot under
observation was recently treated at the
0.Q.M.E., and averaged 6551 b. frozen weight
against the 6201 b. of the balance of the mob
—which had been together since they were,
weaned. They were just- under four years
when killed, and the Zebu crosses went all
first quality; the others only graded 68 p.c.
Despite criticism of the Zebu, it will not.
be long before the value of the cross is more
generally recognised, and if the experiments
in fixing a satisfactory type succeed
the, cattle industry will be better able to
cope with the problems of North Australia.
STRAINING WIRE-NETTING
“Booraby”: The difficulty in most cases
is to get it fairly taut without crinkles,
buckles and bulges. I have seen the
netting run right out along the line be-
fore commencing the erection, the roll,
turning on a spindle, being placed up-
right on a sledge drawn by a horse. This
arrangement is all right, but in running out
too much at a time it is difficult to make a
satisfactory job of putting it up. Some draw
the wire up from post to post, or strainer
to strainer, by using a bar against a post
as a lever or straining device. This, pulls
individual meshes out of shape, and leaves
the whole span uneven.
To draw*the netting straight without damag-
ing it, the strain must be put evenly on the
whole width of the wire. • To do that use
clamps, made with two pieces of 4iu. by lUn.
hardwood, and long enough to reach across
the netting. Bore three holes through them,
one at top and bottom, and one in the
middle, for short half-inch bolts. Put the
clamps on just beyond the straining-post,
one piece on each side of the wire, keeping
them square with' the line of meshes, and bolt
tightly together. Then tie one end of a
strong rope round the middle of the clamp
to pull up the netting. You don’t strain
at the straining-post—so used for the plain
wire, but at the next. On that tack a cleat,
about 6in. long, the bottom half of which
is 2in. by 2in., and the top half 2in. by lin„
the piece cut out being for the opposite end
of the rope to drop over. Then, with an
ordinary straining-fork, the wire can In-
drawn up as tightly as you wish, and it will
keep straight. To grip the rope with the.
straining-fork, you pass it over the butt end,
up between the prongs, and under the top
part of the rope, and with half a turn it is
held. As you are straining against. an
ordinary post, a light prop is also required,
one end being placed under the top plain
wire, and the other against the butt of the
preceding post.
When the netting is taut enough, fasten it
to the latter post—the proper strainer, which
takes the weight when the rope is released.
For this purpose use a light batten or lath.
2in. by -fin., and nail tightly from top to
bottom, carefully squaring it with the line
of meshes. If the wire is nailed direct to
the post, without the covering batten, the
strain comes on individual meshes, which are
consequently pulled out of shape.
Start the work at the left-hand corner,
affixing the wire squarely to that post, run
out one strain-length, strain and fasten
before going on to the next. On level ground
there is no trouble in squaring the wire;
but where there are undulations' the wire at
the first post must be fastened at an angle
to suit the slope. This isi best obtained by
(Continued on next page.)


HP
7&
K
Yk
i
v/\
iS
35
U_
’*3^B
s
o*l
r.^i
\V „.,
WAfikVUt-
rC:
CRIPES!
It keeps a man hopping when they’re using
SAF
Duplicates, Combs and Cutters.
CORRECTLY HARDENED ACCURATELY MADE PERFECTLY FINISHED
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA.
w
OBTAINABLE ALL
LEADING STORES.
Joint Distributors
THE GRAZIERS’ CO-
OPERATIVE SHEARING
CO., LTD., Svdnev.
MOFFAT VIRTUE,
LTD., Svdhey.
Agents
f Victoria: GRAZIERS’ CO-OPERATIVE SHEARING CO. LTD Melbourne
(Queensland; QUEENSLAND PRIMARY PRODUCERS CO-OP ASSN
j Brisbane, Rockhampton, Charleville, Long-reach and Townsville
| South Australia: STOCKOWNERS’ CO-OPERATIVE SHEARING CO ITI)
[West Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Perth. ' . ’
, LTD.,
Adelaide.
Stands more re-soling
That s why the Abbey Hand-sewn
Shoe is cheaper in the long run.
It’s made only from the best Aus-
tralian leather.... carefully shaped
for easy fit over every curve of the
foot and particularly at the instep
arch. Wearers will tell you that it
outlasts any machine-sewn foot-
wear. . . .and preserves its appear-
ance better. The Abbey Hand-sewn
Shoe needs no breaking in... . fits
with perfect comfort right from the
start.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also,
a tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.) or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 70/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 70/«
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 292
DO YOU WANT YOUR
WOOL HANDLED BY
An Experienced Classer
OR BY A LEARNER?
experienced men of certified ability
are eligible for full membership of the
WOOL CLASSERS’ ASSOCIATION OF N.S.W.
The Association will supply classers at Current
Rates, and welcomes any inquiries. Apply:
THE WOOL CLASSERS’ ASSN.,
10 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
4 V,
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants.
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
1C Page Buying and
Selling last Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
AY9j
COMPOUND ESSENCE
OF LINSEED
COUGH*
For Sale
MARSH COURT, HAMPSHIRE,
ENGLAND.
A Lutyens’ Masterpiece of Domestic
Architecture,
on a spur of the Downs above the famous River
Test, the most beautiful and famous Trout Stream
in the Country.
Two-and-a-half Miles of the Finest Trout-
fishing in England,
and
1200 Acres of Land with Wild Fowl and
Other Sporting
FOR SALE by Private Treaty, or by
Auction, sth OCTOBER, 1932,
by
Messrs. KNIGHT, FRANK & RUTLEY,
in conjunction with
Messrs. WOOLLEY & WALLIS,
At the Estate Rooms,
No. 20, Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Auctioneers:
Messrs. WOOLLEY & WALLIS, Salisbury, England;
Messrs. KNIGHT, FRANK & RUTLEY,
20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1., England.
temporarily hanging the netting a tew posts
ahead. In crossing narrow dips, it is best
to run the wire straight, and put an extra
piece of netting underneath. At all slopes
tlie netting must be cut at top and bottom
and the ends fastened to the straining-posts
as described. Between strainers the netting
is held in place with tying wire.
Some fencers, when using this method,
double the rope round a post and tie both
ends to the clamp, then tighten up with a
twiteli-stick. The straining-fork, however, is
quicker and more effective.
GUTTING TIMBER.
“Cooramin”: Most wood-workers in the
bush will tell you the proper time to cut
timber, whether for milling or splitting, is
when the sap is down. That is, for the
great majority of forest woods, from about
the middle of autumn to the end of winter.
Brom the beginning of spring to the end of
summer, the trees are growing—foliating,
flowering and fruiting—and there is a con-
tinual upward flow of sap from the roots.
If trees are cut then, they say, the timber
is full of sap, and therefore takes longer
to season and is less durable. When the
upward flow ceases, all growth is at a stand-
still and the tree is comparatively dry.
So far as the condition of the timber is
concerned, however, this is only partially
true. The heavy flow of sap is between the
bark and the wood. A great deal of it
hardens on the trunk, increasing the girth
by layer on layer; none goes down
except where the bark is cut and it bleeds.
The sapwood is white, but gradually darkens
I rom inside as the wood matures and more
*ap is added to the outside. Quick-growing
trees generally carry a heavy quantity of
sapwood; slow-growing trees carry little
sap. and the wood is usually very hard.
Now, when the sapwood—or* what was
sapwood—has hardened and matured there
is no flowing sap in it. Its growth is done
and henceforth it merely ripens. There is
a certain amount of sap in it, which keeps
the wood alive, much near the surface, and
dwindling toward the centre. That is why
young trees are more sappy than old trees,
ami the timber is said to be green. Wlien
you split a matured tree—a big gum or iron-
bark—the wood a little way in from the
sapwood is practically dry, and in old trees
the heart is brittle and dying. The live
substance gradually vanishes from the centre,
which accounts for so many hollow trees.
It therefore doesn't matter a hang what
tune of the year a tree is felled for split-
ting or milling, provided the tree is ripe
and the sapwood is discarded. In ringbark-
ing and felling scrub for burning, however,
it matters a lot. The bark comes off freely
when the sap is flowing, whereas it sticks
to the wood, being comparatively dry, when
the sap has ceased to flow. In that rest-
ing time of the tree is the proper time to
cut scrub ; it dries quicker then and ensures
a better burn. The reverse is the case
when cutting scrub for stock. The feed is
more succulent, more satisfying, when the
sap is active. After a long drought and in
dry parts there is. less sapwood than after
good seasons and in wet districts.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What is red squill powder, advocated B.
22/6/’32 for poisoning rats, and where is
it procurable? —Bl9.
Red squill is a bulbous plant growing in
countries bordering on the Mediterranean.
The bulb is poisonous to rats, but compara-
tively harmless to humans. Supplies are
short at present. Elliotts and the Austra-
lian Drug Co., Sydney, have small quantities
on hand.
(1) In B. 20/7,/’32 a formula is given
for calculating . the capacity of a cylin-
dricat tank: “Multiply together the radius
ansi depth and multiply that result by 194.”
Shouldn't the radius be squared? (2) Mak-
ing that amendment, what percentage of
error is there in using the formula: Radius
x radius x depth x 191? —1311.
(1) Yes. (2) 0.46 p.c. less than true
capacity.
(1) How can you tell after slaughter if
a pig has t.b.? (2) Is there any way of
telling while the pig is alive? —673.
(1) Lesions of tuberculosis may be pre-
sent in practically any part of the carcase.
Veterinarians and qualified meat inspectors
can determine the existence of tuberculosis
by the appearance of the lesions, which usu-
ally are of a yellow cheese-like appearance.
(2) Yes, by application of the ophthalmic
tuberculin test. This test can only he
applied by a veterinarian.
How can I scare hawks, crows and kooka-
burras away from my poultry-run? —BB3.
►Shooting is the only effective method, but
kookaburras are protected, and special per-
mission would have to be obtained from the
Chief Secretary’s Department, Sydney.
Crows can sometimes be trapped in a wire-
netted enclosure with a hole of 12in.
diameter in the top. Eggs or meat should
be placed on the ground directly underneath
the hole of the enclosure.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Dunboy”: An old chaffcutter knife-
blade makes an excellent tool for the farm
kitchen. For a handle get two pieces of
2in. by lin, hardwood and whittle each' piece
at one end, so that they fit, the blade neatly.
They can be bolted to the blade through the
holes already there; the remainder of the
handle can then be bound with copper or
other pliable wire.
“Ginger Beer”: Here’s a rule-of-thumb
formula for calculating the capacity of gal-
vanised-iron tanks. The round ones are
built up of 2ft. sections, this being the width
of a sheet of corrugated iron. The capacity
of each section in gallons is found by squar-
ing the diameter and then adding a 0 or
multiplying bv 10. A tank Bft. diameter x
12ft. high would be built of six .sections
each 2ft. wide. Calculating the capacity of
each section as 640 gallons, the total ‘con-
tents are 3840 gallons, correct to within 100
gallons. Another short cut, correct to within
one-tliird of one per cent., is : Diameter, mul-
tiplied by diameter, multiplied by height (all
in feet), multiplied by 4.9125.
“Hornby”: Faulty sanitation is at the
bottom of a high percentage of pig com-
plaints. A sloping brick floor is ideal for
drainage; where this can’t be afforded, equal
quantities of any kind of clay and sand,
with ashes and cinders, will give a hard,
water-shedding floor. A good slope from the
back of the sty towards the feed troughs
(which should be near the door) is essential.
“Dimon”: All you have to do now when
you go after foxes is to whistle for them
and they’ll come. A decoy for this purpose,
made from pliable tin, is now on the market.
It makes a noise like a squeal of a rabbit
when caught in a trap, a sound that always
attracts Reynard. The whistle is the inven-
tion of a Moss Vale (N.S.W.) resident, who
was blowing for years before he got the thing
perfect. With it he has attracted and shot
14 foxes in a day.
“Old Scalper”: For a dingo that has
become poison-shy try this. On the sunny
side of a dry tree or fence-post, close to a
pad leading to water, bore a hole with an
inch auger sloping upwards, three or four
inches deep. Tightly plug the hole with a
mixture of dripping and strychnine. The
warmth of the sun will cause the dripping to
leak; the dingo trotting along the pad to
get water will be unable to resist the tempta-
tion to have a lick. The poison begins to
act before he becomes suspicious. It will
usually be too late then.
“Old Cockie”: Boiling water beats every-
thing for killing fleas.. Keeping copper on
the boil, throw boiling water all over the
yard, splash floors aiid corners, see that no
cover is left and no spots missed, and it is
good-bye to fleas. I can speak as an expert
—l’ve been pig-farming.
‘‘Karaway”: To get mice out of a hay-
stack, take a few long sheets of plain gal-
vanised-iron, cut them in halves lengthwise
and put them on edge around the stack, a
yard or so from the hay, to form a low iron
fence. See that the sheets are well em-
bedded, and that there are no openings at
the ends, and no stakes outside. Then lean
a board here and there from inside to the
top of the iron for the mice to get out. They
have to go out for water, and once out they
can’t get in again. They may be caught by
placing a water-trap under the pump. The
same method may be applied for barns and
sheds.
“A.C.8.”: Only the first runner from
strawberries should be planted; later
runners produce little fruit. The best plants
of all are produced by root grafts. Crop-
ping plants should have runners removed
with a sharp-edged wheel tool, easily made
at home. Top watering often spoils a lot
of the fruit, so go careful with the spray.
Fendalcino and Phenomenal are two first-
rate varieties. Red spider and thrip are
best controlled by dusting with sulphur dust.
“G.J.A.S.”: A post-mortem on a rooster
which had flopped and died peacefully dis-
closed a speargrass seed, which had pierced
through the wall of the crop, travelled to
the heart and embedded itself in the main
artery. If this dangerous seed will kill a
fowl, why not other larger and more valu-
able stock? Fields badly infested with
speargrass should be sown in peas and oats
and cut for ensilage in the spring before
the seed has time to ripen. We have cleared
our fields up by this method, but apparently
we missed one seed.
. “J- Point”: When a hen goes broody and
is not required for use, she can be cured by
placing her in a special coop with a slatted
bottom a couple of inches off the ground.
She can continue to receive her usual feed,
but the coop will not permit of her settling
down and making a nest; therefore she will
soon give up. On the other hand, when a
broody is wanted she should be given every
encouragement on the first sign of broodiness
and allowed a comfortable nest in a dark-
ened place, when she will soon be ready to
take the eggs.
“Karaway'’: A nuisance in fowlhouses
that are not regularly cleaned is the red mite
or louse. Tip out the grass nest and set
fire to it; when it is half-burned, throw
some sulphur on it and place the box upsid'*
down over the fire. Fumigating with sul-
phur is also a good preventive and sweetener
for the fowlhouse—if ventilators can be
easily closed. Burn a pint or so of sulphur
on a shovel or sheet of tin in the centre of
the floor, and keep the place closed for a
couple of hours. This should be done,
whether mites are present or not, before the
walls are liniewasliod ; and when doing the
walls don’t forget the nest-boxes.
“FY7”: There has been a revival of the
suggestion that the tick-eating egret of East-
ern Asia should be imported as a means of
combating the red-water tick. Well over
20 years ago the idea was. mooted in Queens-
land, the suggestion being to bring the birds
rrom Madagascar, where they also occur.
Later on the Queensland Government of the
day tried to make arrangements for the im-
portation of some of these birds, but the
matter fell through when it was found that
the egrets did not actually free the cattle
of ticks but picked them off the ground after
they had become engorged and fallen off.
lhis might result in the diminution of the
ticks in time through the killing off of the
egg-laden females, but could hardly prevent
infection by others not yet arrived at that
stage. It was felt that the process of tick
eliruination in these circumstances was too
indirect to be worth while.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Shearers’ cook, Vic., seeks employment.—ll 72.
Young man (Sydney), educated, wants light em-
ployment, day or night, anywhere.—lllo.
School teacher, Sydney, would like to join debating
society, North Shore or city, free Wednesday and
Saturday evenings.—1139.
Copy of story which inspired Thomas Moore’s
song, “She Is Far From the Land.” —1157.
To get in touch with Aubrey E. Wenden, believed
to be working for Sydney insurance c 0.—1193.
Information Sought.
When wats gas first introduced to Syd-
ney?—V2l2.
In 1834, at a “Grand Scientific Exhibi-
tion” held in the Royal Hotel (where
Dymock’s stands now). The exhibition was
lighted with gas, and gas engines were on
show. In 1838 gas-making machinery
arrived, and on May 24, 1841, the supply
of gas was ready for 181 private lights,
which increased to 685 in a month.
Where teas IF exford-street, frequently
mentioned in old Bulletin pars? What
made it so notorious? —1216.
Wexford-street, Sydney, was synonymous
with Chinatown before the network of lanes
and alleys which stood about what now is
the railway end of Wentworth-avenue was
wiped out in city' reconstruction. It was
the principle thoroughfare in Chinatown and
the haunt of criminals of all nationalities.
What is being done, by the N.S.W. Educa-
tion Department to train mentally-deficient
children ? —1214.
Classes for such children have been estab-
lished at eight schools in the metropolitan
district. The classes are limited to about
15 pupils, so that each may receive indivi-
dual attention, and in some cases the chil-
dren have made sufficient progress for trans-
fer to the ordinary schools. A residential
school for subnormal children was opened
in 1927 at Glenfield, where four cottages and
a central administrative building have been
erected. In each cottage accommodation is
provided for 32 children.
Qualifications required to become ii land
agent in N.S.W.? Is there any cram, to
pass, and is it necessary to get a license?
—1025.
A land agent in N.S.W. means a person
acting for a fee in any matter or proceeding
under any Act the administration of which
is vested in the Minister of Lands, before
the Land and Valuation Court, or any local
Land Board. All land agents must be regis-
tered. If you want to be a real-estate
agent, you may seek to join the Country Stock
and Station Agents’ Association by applying
to J. D. Boyd, secretary, Box 97, Parkes, or
the Real Estate Institute of N.S.W. by
applying to the secretary at 30a Martin-
place, Sydney. Either of these bodies will
determine the matter of qualification.
(1) How many bags of cement arc re-
quired to cement a floor 4i n. thick, 40 ft. by
50 ft.? (2) 7/ ow many yards sand? (3)
Stone or gravel required in yards, and size
of same? (4) What sort of a job could be
done with coarse ashes and cinders that have
been through an engine? (5) Would it
make a good floor if reinforced with netting
wire ? —1025.
(1) 144 paper bags or 10S jute bags. (2)
lleub. yds. (3)21 cub. yds. (4) In expert
hands suitable cinders will make a satisfac-
tory job under certain conditions. These
depend on the use to which the floor is to
be put. (5) If cinders are used it is in-
advisable to use wire netting. Almost all
cinders contain sulphur, and this would ulti-
mately make the wire useless as reinforce-
ment.
(1) What is the f number of a photo-
graphic lens? (2) What is meant by an f/8
or f/ 4 lens? (3) Is an f/ 4 lens a better
instrument than an f/8 lens? —1190.
(1) The f number or speed of a lens is
obtained by dividing its focal length by its
effective diameter. A lens having a focal
length of 54in. and a diameter of 1.22 in.
will have a maximum speed of f/4.5. (2)
That the focal length of the lens is eight
times or four times its diameter. (3) An
f/4 lens is about four times more rapid
than an f/8 lens and is useful for taking-
photographs in a poor light, and for high-
speed work.
(1) Proper dimensions of a tennis court,
and distances to allow between lines and
fence; also proper height of net and dis-
tance between posts? —9ol.
The ideal area for a tennis court is 100 ft.
by 50ft., the court, to be laid down at equal
distances from the ends. The dimensions
of the court are: Outside lines 78ft. x 36ft.,
inside court 42ft. x 27ft. The distance be-
tween the posts is 42ft., and the height of
the net is 3ft. at the centre and 3ft. 6in. at
the posts.
(1) Who was Captain Thunderbolt, the
bushranger? (2) Was he captured by the
police and executed? —lll4.
(1) The name was assumed by Frederick
Ward, an ex-convict, born at Windsor
(N.S.W.). From Dec., 1864, to May, 1870,
he lived at large upon the area from New-
castle north to Manilla, robbed many mails
and held up many travellers. (2) He was
shot at Uralla (N.S.W.) by Constable
Walker on May 25, 1870.
(1) Means of getting rid of fleas in cow-
bails and house? (2) Will fumigating with
Candy's crystals and formalin tarnish silver
and brassware or the gilt on picture frames?
—lOBB.
(1) For house, see B. 13/7/’32, p. 26,
reply to 770. For cow-bails, clear tip rub-
bish. If the floor is of earth, scrape it well
and burn scrapings. Allow no dog kennels
lo lean against outer walls, and don’t allow
animals to camp in the bails. Spray floors,
walls and all crevices well with a strong
solution of kerosene and water. Keep up
the treatment for several weeks. (2) These
are antiseptics, not fumigants. Can’t say
what their properties are in the matter of
tarnishing.
(1) What is the national debt oj Aus-
tralia f (2) What proportion does the war
debt bear to the total? (3) National debt
of Canada? (4) Proportion of icar debt?
(5) Did Canada pay its expeditionary force
or merely supply the men and leave Britain
to pay their wages and find material? (0)
What rate of interest does Britain pay to
the U.S.A. on the war debt? (7) What
interest does Australia pay Britain on war
debts? —9002.
(1) As at June 30, 1931. £1.15(5,036,000.
(2) 24 p.c. (3) and (4) In 1930, 2,544,586,000
dollars, 1.696,337,401 dollars being war debt.
(5) Canada paid, equipped and maintained its
expeditionary forces —418,000 sent overseas
—during the entire period of the war without
borrowing from the United Kingdom. At
the end of the war, Britain was indebted to
Canada for a large amount for foodstuffs and
munitions. (6) 34 p.c. for 10 years (to the
end of 1932) and 4 p.c. thereafter for 52
years, these payments including \ p.c. in
reduction of principal. (7) 6 p.c., of which
£4 18s. 4d. p.c. is for interest and the
remaining £1 Is. Bd. p.c is in reduction of
principal.
(1) Is there an award for fruit-pickers
along the Murray? (2) Does the award
apply to unionists only? (3) Can a non-
unionist sue for award rates after having
worked for less than award, rates? —814.
(1) Yes, made by the Commonwealth
Court of Arbitration, on 28/l/’3O. Copies
Government Printer, Canberra. Is. 9d. (2)
The award relates only te the employment of
members of the A.W.U. by the persons and
bodies set out in the schedule to the award.
(3) No.
(1) Hare members of the N.B.W. police
force a superannuation or pension scheme?
(2) Do they make a contribution from
wages? (3) Does amount of pension depend
upon salary at retirement and not on amount
paid in contributions ? —975.
(1) Thev have a superannuation scheme.
(2) Yes. (3) Yes, and also upon length of
service at time of retirement.
(1) Suitable liniment for a greyhound?
(2) Any books on training greyhounds for
coursing? —lo7B.
(1) Elliman’s is suitable, but massage is
better than any liniment. A little olive oil
may be used afterwards. (2) There are
chapters on the subject in “Shaw’s Book
of the Dog” (Cassel) and “Everybody’s Dog
Book.”
(1) What gauge aerial wire do the service
rules specify for receiver aerials? (2)
Special precautions to be taken when erect-
ing aerials? (3) Can a gaspipe be used
for an earth? —1105.
(1) 3/.036in. for aerials not exceeding
120 ft. and 7/.036in. for aerials exceeding
120 ft., this length being the span between
the supports. (2) Aerials and stay-wires
must not pass under or over aerial-electric,
power or telephone wires, neither must they
be so placed that a break in either the aerial
wire or the light or power wires could result
in a contact between the latter and the
aerial. Aerials and their supports must be
constructed in a strong and durable manner.
(3) No.
(1) In what soil do carnations thrive
best? (2) What diseases affect carnations,
and what remedies should be employed? —
1100.
(1) Soil must be well-drained, sweet and
open in texture. Add sand if the soil is
sticky or heavy loam; leaf mould or well-
decayed manure, if very light or sandy. Use
well-rotted cow manure, or any old, decayed
animal manure or leaf mould. (2) Carna-
tion rust first appears on the leaves like
small blisters, which afterwards burst and
let loose a brown powder, the seeds of the
fungus. The remedy is to remove and burn
all affected leaves and then spray with
Bordeaux powder, using lib. to Bgal. water.
During the winter purple or yellow spots
may appear. Pick off and burn the affected
leaves, and dust regularly with quicklime.
Is a mortgagee who took possession prior
to the N.B.W. Moratorium Act entitled to
charge a penal rate of interest? —1043.
The N.S.W. Act provides that a mortgagee
shall not, without leave of the Court, con-
tinue any action commenced after Nov. 26,
1930, for interest at any higher rate than
that provided in the mortgage, or 7 p.c.,
whichever is the less.
What is meant by “real and personal
estate" ? —lO4O.
“Real” applies to lands and interests aris-
ing thereout, and “personal” to goods and
chattels, and, generally speaking, interests
not directly or indirectly connected with
land.
A sold B a business for half cash and a
p.n. The p.n. was not honored. What legal
redress lias A got? —lo64.
A should give notice of the dishonor to
the maker, and if not then met he can sue
on the p.n.
What are the “roaring forties"? —1099.
A name given by sailors to the belt of
ocean between 40 and 50 degrees south, in
which strong westerly winds blow all the
year round. The strength and constancy of
these “brave west winds” long enabled the
Australian wool and wheat clippers to com-
pete with steamers by sailing to England
via Gape Horn and returning by way of
the Gape of Good Hope.
A- simple method of testing water for
(1) sewage, (2) lead, (3) zinc, (4) copperf
—lll9. „ , . „ .
(1) Add four drops of Condys fluid to
a small glass of water. The solution turns
pale or yellow if decomposed organic matte
is present. (2) Add six drops of sulphuric
acid to the same amount of water. A white
precipitate will be found if lead is present.
(3) Add six drops of ferro-cyanide of potas-
sium to a small glass of water <*reen *
appear if zinc is present. (4) Add eight
drops of ammonia to the same amount o
water. If the liquid contains copper it will
turn a pale blue.
Did Mark Twain write the oft-quoted
epitaph for his daughter’s grave? 1 have
heard it stated that an Australian wrote it.
Is that so ? 1224. ~ .
It was not written by Mark Twain
but adapted. The author was Robert Rich-
ardson, Australian-born, and son ot an early
N.S.W. statesman. After a brilliant uni-
versity career he went to England, being
the first Australian to make his mark m
literature there. His daughter, whose pen-
name is Henry Handel Richardson, has also
attained literary fame.
Who was the first Australian-horn ex-
plorer to enter Antarctic waters? ll hen
and howt —1220. ~ ,
In 1832, Parramatta-born James lveh.\
went as' far as 72° S.. a long' way inside the
Antarctic Circle, in search of new s aling-
and wlraling-grounds. Kelly is best remem-
bered for a boat voyage around lasnmma
in 1815-16. He died in 1868 and his grave
is in the St. George Cemetery, Hobart.
How to hind sawdust into a hoard? —043.
All attempts to make sawdust into boards
by the use of cements or binders have failed.
Such boards are made by treating wood
chips chemically, or in some cases of soft-
woods, mechanically, in special grinders, the
material being shaped in machines similar
to paper machines.
What is the position in regard to employ-
ment for pharmacists in Sydney'? 1669.
One Sydney wholesale druggist firm has
on its books about 130 registered pharma-
cists who' have passed all examinations and
who are unemployed. Some of these men
have been registered for three years, and
have not had one day’s work. Included m
the number are' 30 lady assistants. Iheie
are also 100-odd unregistered chemists who
are unable to obtain a position.
(1) How to remove moss that grows on
the mortar between bricks? (2) Why does
moss grow there? —1169.
(1)' Brush down with a stiff broom and
spray or wash with water containing 1 p.c.
of carbolic ' acid; a strong dash of phenol
will do as well. (2) Dust lodges on the
crevices, and becomes soil in damp places,
moss spores lodge there.
How to remove scale which forms on the
inside of aluminium cooking utensils owing
to use of hard water? —1103.
Put a teacup of vinegar and a tablespoon
of salt into the pots, place over the fire and
allow to get hot. Then rub thoroughly with
a thick cloth. Wash with hot soapsuds,
and scour with ashes or pot-cleaner powder.
Rinse in hot water and dry in the sun.
Scour every week with lemon juice and
coarse sandsoap.
How to make a dressing and polish for a
dark-brown leather coat?- —1044. •
Wash surface with warm water just
tinted with vinegar. Dry with a chamois.
If the color has faded, restore it by mixing
a little Bismarck brown in methylated
sp'Tits and brushing on; or if black, use
lamp black instead of brown. When quite
dry rub well in with a flannel a mixture of
two egg-white and two teaspoons pure tur-
pentine beaten well together. Finally polish
with a soft cloth.
(1) What improvements did Stradivari
make in the violin? (2) Did he make other
instruments, and were they of good tone?
(3) What teas his best period for violin-
making? (4) How did he evolve his curves?
—:1125.
(1) His starting point was the model
developed by Amati, his master. He lowered
the arch of the belly, made the corner blocks
more massive, gave more cui've to the middle
ribs, altered the position of the sound-holes,
inclining them more together at the top.
made the scroll more substantial and re-
modelled the bridge to its present universal
form. (2) Yes. guitars, mandolins, lutes,
lyres, violas de gamba, ’cellos, double-
basses. All were of good tone save
the ’cellos, which were made on Violin
proportions and in most cases are very de-
fective in tone. (3) 1698 to 1725. After
that it was only very occasionally that he
produced a violin of supremely sweet tone.
(4) That was his secret. His design for
sound-holes has been analysed and found to
conform to a geometrical formula, and he
probably arrived at other details of design
in a similar manner.
(1) How did the spinet get its name?
(2) How big were they? (3) Hew many
octaves? (4) What did they cost? —llo9.
(1) There are two explanations. Either
the name comes from “spinetto,” Italian for
a thicket of thorns, the connection being the
little spines or plectrums that plucked the
strings, or from Spinetti, a Venetian maker
of the instruments, but not the inventor.
(2) They were shaped somewhat like a
grand piano, the keyboard or keyboards on
the longest straight side. The largest speci-
men extant is 7ft 6in. wide and 3ft. deep.
(3) Three octaves and a sixth or four
octaves and a semitone. (4) Pepys in his
diary records that he bought “a little
espinette” from Hayward, a London maker,
in 1668, for £5.
Recipe for lotion far softening the hands?
—ll3O.
Put 6 drachms glycerine with 1 drachm
boric acid and dissolve by heat. When cool,
mix it well with 6 drachms lanolin and loz.
vaseline. Add any perfume desired. The
Stock mixture of glycerine and rosewater
procurable from any chemist or bargain base-
ment is very suitable.
Does Anybody Know?
llow to prevent or cure a Border Leicester
ram that jumps fences’? — 9s6.
Brief Answers.
A. MaeD. W.: (1) You should have made
a claim on B before the fence was erected. You
have no claim against G. (2) Yes. (3) Yes. Right
of action would depend on tenure. (4) Not neces-
sarily, but it would be fair to do 50... .R.J.8.:
(1) Case is covered by Federal bankruptcy law.
Payment of liquidator’s remuneration and costs inci-
dental to liquidation come first and then wages.
(2) Depends on assets available for distribution....
C.0.H.: This journey is regarded as competitive with
the railways for a distance exceeding 50 miles in
length and would be subject to a charge of 3d. per
ton per mile, based on the weight of the vehicle
unladen and the load it is capable of carrying. .. .
W. 8.: Write Commonwealth Statistician, Canberra.
. ...V.M.G.: Write Rabbit Fur Farmers’ Assoc, of
N.S.W., Box 1104 H, G.P.0., Sydney J.L.L.:
Harry Hawker was killed at Hendon, England, on
July 16, 1921, while competing in the Aerial Derby.
.... D.P.: Doubt whether the subject can be learned
by correspondence. We are posting you a book
which may prove helpful... .J.D.R.: Forward par-
ticulars, accompanied by a sketch, to H. P. Gregory
and Co., 74 Clarence-street, Sydney... .E.C.D.; Fine
soot, ivory black, indigo, carmine, ultramarine,
Paris blue, or mixtures of them, may be used. The
coloring is pounded and mixed with fine Castile
soap, and then rubbed on to thin but strong paper
with a stiff brush... .E.E.T.: The carpet seems to
have been damaged by wear or decay or has been
eaten by carpet beetles. You can prevent further
insect damage by spraying with insecticide or wash-
ing with petrol... .L.M.: In two-wheel vehicles, raise
the shafts to a horizontal position and find the
dead centre of the balanced weight by setting the
body in place on the axle and adjusting until the
balance is perfect; in four-wheeled vehicles, place
the axles under the two points of greatest weight
carrying. In a buggy these points would be just
under the seats. .. .M.H.: Soak in a weak solution
of caustic soda until the unwanted parts fall away ;
rinse in clean water and dry in blotting paper. . . .
0.W.T.: Australian Cement Manufacturers’ Associa-
tion, -14 Spring-street, Sydney, will advise you if
asked. .. .R.M.: Write N.S.W. Agriculture Dept, for
leaflet “Charcoal Burning”... .C-D.: Write State
Fisheries, Chief Secretary’s Dept., Sydney, for pam-
phlet “Smoking and Salting N.S.W. Fish”....
H.M.S.: Write to the Paymaster-General, Whitehall,
5. London, giving full details. .. .L.K.1.: (1)
The fact that a tenant goes over to a new landlord
does not release him from indebtedness for back
rent to his late landlord. Whether he can discharge
it out of the produce from the land held under
the new landlord or whether the last-named has a
prior claim depends on the terms of the agreement
under which the land was sold. (2) Any claim the
bank may have rests on the conditions of the
advance C.R..C.: In 1914 practically all the
young men and some of the older members of
the New Australia colony at Cosme, Paraguay,
volunteered for active service, paying their own
expenses to England, and enlisting there. Those
who survived returned to Paraguay... .F.M.G.:
Orange perch, named for its color, is a rather rare
deep-water fish, in size up to 9in., taken by
trawlers off the coasts of N.S.W. and Yic
M.S.: The first electric telegraph line was erected
between Hobart and Launceston in 1857. A cable
was laid between Tasmania and the mainland in
1859, but failed after a few weeks. It was replaced
in 1869... .K.R.: (1) Henry Irving was born Feb.
6, 1838 and died Oct. 13, 1905. (2) His real name
was John Henry Brodribb. He assumed the name
of Irving in 1887... .G.E.A.: Mount Kamet in the
Himalayas, 25,447 ft., ascended on June 21, 1931 by
Frank S. Smythe and others, is the highest peak
ever climbed. .. .L.S.P.: At Feb. 1, 1932 the number
of naval submarines in service was: British, 52 :
U.S.A., 81; Japan, 67 ; France, 65 ; Italy, 46 ; and
Soviet Union, 16. Under construction: British, 10 ;
U.S.A., 3; Japan, 5; France, 45; and Italy, 29.
... .Annabelle: The mare is suffering from pica,
due to chronic digestive disorder or to some deficiency
of diet. Give lucerne and a bran mash daily,
and place a block of rock salt in her feedirig-
box W.J.R.: C. Koerstz, Mentmore-avenue,
Rosebery, Sydney... .E.S.R.: Roman Catholics,
331,500,000; Orthodox Catholics, 144,000,0'00 ;
Protestant churches, 206,900,000 ; Jews, 16,130,000 ;
Mohammedans, 209,020,000 ; Buddhists, 150,180,000 ;
Hindus, 230,150,000 ; Confucians and Taoists,
350,600,000; Shintoists, 25,000,000; Animists,
135,650,000; Unclassified, 50,870,000.... J.P.D.:
Robertson and Mullens, 107 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
may be able to furnish an opinion as to its value.
. ...8.P.: Write C. F. Laseron, 19 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney... .F.F.: Kipling is still alive. His
latest book, “Thy Servant, a Dog,” should be pro-
curable from any of the leading booksellers....
M.K.: See “Aust. and N.Z. Writers’ and Artists’
Year-Book” (2s. 6d.) ... . W.S.: Kobbe’s “The Com-
plete Opera Book” (275.), Angus and Robertson....
F.M.: The N.S.W. death rate in 1871 was 12.61 ;
in 1931, 8.48, per 1000 W.E. J. : Write C. R.
Maguire and Co., Phillip and Young streets, Water-
loo, Sydney. .. .P.W.: (1) and (2) The mortgagor’s
time for repayment is extended until early next
year and she cannot in the meantime be sued for
interest or principal. Mortgagee cannot, without
Court’s leave, enter into possession during moratorium,
unless interest or rates are two years overdue or there
has been a breach of the covenant for insurance
or preservation of the property. The Act wipes out
the persona] covenant. The interest on all private
mortgages has been reduced by nine-fortieths as
from Oct., 1931, provided the rate is not reduced
under 5 per cent. Pay quarterly instalments at the
reduced rate. (3) There is no need for an applica-
tion for reduction as the Act operates automatically.
. ...G.T.E.: Write E. A. Roberts, Returned Sailors
and Soldiers’ League, Wingello House, Angel-place,
Sydney... .J.F.N.: Get in touch w-ith Australian
Glass. Manufacturers Co., Dowling-street, Waterloo,
Sydney J.R.D.: Write to Paymaster-General’s
Department, Whitehall, S.W.I, London, stating your
ease as fully as possible. Satisfy yourself that there
are substantial grounds to go on before incurring
expense.. .R.P.H.: Gordon and Gotch, Barrack-street,
Sydney, can obtain the magazine for you. .. .S.R.H.:
Cut clean rubber into strips and shreds as finely
as possible and dry in an oven at 104 to 122 deg.
until they are free of water. Then take one part
by measure of the dessicated rubber and mix witli
eight parts benzine till dissolved. Add two parts
copal varnish and enough lamp black or aniline black
to attain the desired shade. .. .W.C.H.: (1) Greasy
skins can be tanned. (2) Sixteen to 20 fox skins
would make a good rug. (3) More satisfactory to
have it done by a furrier. .. .S.R.: In law a leading
question is one which suggests the answer to the
witness A. J.W.: In Denmark the speying of cows
is restricted principally to those which have physical
defects or are low producers.... Safety First: If
interest is computed at yearly rests, 23 years, 15
weeks; at quarterly rests, 22 years, 51 weeks
C.S.: The double-flowering garden poppy is a form
of papaver somniferum var. album. The cultivation
of the white-flowering opium poppy is prohibited
in Australia J.McG.: You must make an annual
return. In your case tax is assessed on £9l wages
£26, board and residence £65.... (Many others
mailed.)


DOPE
GRANTLEY LORRENS.
Synopsis : Ernest William Johns,
ALA. Oxon., cocaine addict and desti-
tute, saves Etta Smith from a
half-breed's knife in a Sydney water-
front “ dive .” Aboard the Surf
Queen, he accepts her father's offer
of a job, and Etty helps him to fight
his craving. As she tends him Johns
realises that she loves him. At Lola
Pangcu Fay Campbell, on a cruise in her
father's steam yacht, Arethusa, visits
Etty—and Johns meets his ideal. That
night, inspired, by Varley, one-time
medical student, now the cook, who
loves Etty, Johns deserts, stow-
ing away in the Arethusa's life-boat.
He hears Fay discuss him, and she
scarcely conceals her interest in him
from her father. Racked by his crav-
ing, Johns sneaks ashore at Zandavar
to Varley's friend, Wooden Charlie,
who gives him dope and, later, a ; job.
Meeting Fay ostensibly by accident
before she sails, Johns confesses his
weakness: she is sure he will con-
quer it. To give Johns an opportunity
of concentrating on writing his “great
book," Charlie is arranging to sell
his joint when a drink-erased Yankee
shoots him. The place catches fire.
Johns drags Charlie’s body from the
ruins. Blindly escaping from the
crowd, he is attacked by but shoots a
garrotter. Johns collapses into a
house. Flora, who keeps it, persuades
Captain Gibbons, whom she, has refused
to marry, to take her and Johns aboard
the Spindrift. Eight months pass.
The strain of looking after Johns,
now cured, has taken toll of Flora —-
she is consumptive. Conscience-stricken,
•Johns proposesj but to save him from
himself Flora accepts Gibbons. Johns
is knocked unconscious during a storm,
which leaves the Spindrift derelict.
BOOK lII—THE SPINDRIFT.
Chapter 111 {Continued).
DAMN it all, but it was-strange the way
a woman could alter one’s outlook!
Gibbons had never thought to find
himself broke to the wide, and yet longing
to stay alive. Was it only a few hours
ago that lie had said to her that God,
Whom he and Flora had never worshipped
—never given a thought to for a good
many years—was it only a few hours ago
that he had said to her that He would not
let them die?
“You wouldn’t think we could conic
through all that, and then die like this?”
His voice was strange in his own ears.
He wondered whether the mate had noticed
anything peculiar in it, as he listened
anxiously for his answer. It was funny, he
thought, that anxiety for Flora could give
him that attitude of mind towards the taci-
turn, colorless Harry who had been his
echo for years. But that, of course, had
been in the way of duty only. He had
never bothered to sound him on anything
else. He suddenly realised that he knew
less about his mate than he did about
dozens of acquaintances casualty shore-
met in a hundred different bars. He knew
no more about this white man than he did
about the kanaka crew huddled together in
the forepart of the derelict. Less even—
for they lacked most of the subtleties of
civilisation that made one white man dif-
ferent from all his fellows. But Harry—he
was an enigma. The captain suddenly felt
desperately anxious to get his views.
“Would you?” he repeated.
The mate looked at him in surprise.
“Why not?” he asked.
Gibbons spread his hands.
“Well, would you? Isn’t there some sort
of fair play in the world? God doesn’t
bother Himself to spite us, does He?”
“Oh!” The mate’s voice had suddenly
lost interest. “Oh! God?” He laughed
shortly. He failed to see how one so
remote could touch his interests. What he
had got, he had got always for himself.
Now, if he had to die, he was prepared to
die—by himself. He returned to his scru-
tiny of the now dark horizon.
Gibbons leaned back against the rail
with a shrug of contempt and new-found
pity for the other’s atheism.
The stars were fully out. As though to
make up for the cruelty of the day they scin-
tillated with redoubled brilliance. Or, per-
haps, it was only that he had never noticed
them particularly before. It was strange
how a few- hours could alter one’s perspec-
tive. His mind, fascinated, dwelt on that
point. Even now life seemed more attrac-
tive to him than it had done that morning,
even after Flora had promised she would
marry him if they came through safety.
And all that despite the knowledge that he
was broke! That he was less well off now,
financially, than he had been eight years
ago when he had still owed three-quarters
of the purchase price of the Spindrift. He
was up against it—up against it like Hell!
And yet he found himself looking forward
to the struggle almost eagerly. With Flora
as a lodestone he could not fail to make a
go of things. He felt a sudden sense of
power. Life, he told himself, had only
started for him to-day.
Chapter IV.
It was a quarter of an hour later that
Flora came on deck again. In the starlight
her face looked ghastly pale, and Gibbons
sprang to his feet in sudden agitation.
“Flora girl, what’s the matter?”
He was oddly like a solicitous elephant
in his anxiety. The thought made her
laugh, half irritably. It was odd, she told
herself—“not a good omen, my girl!”—
that twice in the first day they were “en-
gaged” she should find him grating on her
nerVes; first with his stubbly chin, now with
his clumsy tenderness.
“He’s unconscious again.” She looked at
the other pathetically. “He came round for
a few minutes—he thinks he’s on the Are-
thusa. He put his arms round my neck, and
kissed me. He thought I was Fay!”
A little staccato sound escaped her lips.
Gibbons, taking it for a laugh, laughed also
—in relief—and Flora did not bother to
correct the misapprehension. It would have
been difficult to have explained away that
sudden sob, she told herself, and for once
was grateful for the other’s blundering
understanding. And yet it would not have
mattered so very much, perhaps. Surrep-
titiously, as she leaned over the rail, she
put her handkerchief to her lips. There was
another stain there. She wondered idly if
it meant the end. If it was at last the
warning that could not be ignored, the hint
to “get ready.”
Automatically her eyes sought the
Southern Cross. It had always been Johnny’s
beacon—liis lodestar, he had called it to
her more than once. Whenever he had been
worried, he had often told her, he had
turned to it. It had kept him sane when
sanity had sometimes seemed untenable.
Perhaps it would keep her alive when life
seemed insupportable, because of that pain
in her chest, her “right apex.” Suddenly
her lips burned. She twitched her shoulders
impatiently, but the sensation remained. It
was Johnny’s kiss recalled to life. It was
as though the Cross had brought it back to
finiteness, even as it had brought Johnny’s
tottering reason back so many times in
the old days.
With a movement that was a consecration
she tucked the handkerchief against her
heart. It had been that effort to move
Johnny to the bunk, the dragging of his
dead weight across the cabin floor, that had
started the pain in her chest. She remem-
bered that, with a little thrill of joy. Self-
sacrifice—that was what the Cross had
always symbolised. Even the Southern
Cross; for it had helped Johnny to sacri-
fice himself, for his pride. It seemed to
give her strength, that thought. The
Pointers were almost awash in the ocean, as
though stroking it to peace again, and the
Cross itself hung low, so that it seemed to
her that it must be grieving for the desola-
tion that the day had brought.
And down below it there winked another
star. Almost red it seemed in contrast
with the silver whiteness of the Pointers
and their Cross. It was a star that winked
dully in comparison with its fellows, and
which, at times, seemed to disappear en-
tirety from the night. It was almost as if
it described a tiny cycle of its 0wn.... or
was it merely that her eyes were weak,
playing her senses tricks?
She watched it carefully for five minutes,
afraid to say anything to the man standing
by her side. She wondered whether he had
seen it too, and, in his turn, was keeping
silence lest he should raise her hopes for
nothing. But a cautious glance reassured her.
Stephen Gibbons was absorbed in uncom-
prehending watching of the phosphorescence
that played against the side of the derelict
Spindrift.
At the end of five minutes her patience
was exhausted. She was sure—as sure as
it was possible to be—that she was not mis-
taken. She turned suddenly to her com-
panion.
“Steve!” Her voice was flatty level with
her suppressed excitement. “Steve! There’s
a star down there—under the Pointers, a
little to the left of them—and it’s moving!”
“Eh?” The captain dragged his mind
back to the present with an effort. He
stared at her, anxiety re-awakened by the
pallor of her cheeks-and the strange glow
in her eyes. “Flora girl, you’re looking
sick.”
“Damn me and my looks!” His inatten-
tiveness, his slowness of “uptake,” exas-
perated her repressed nerves. “Damn me
and my looks! I’m telling you, there’s
a star down there that
looks as though it
might be—a light!”
She pointed with a
hand that had sud-
denly grown tremu-
lous. Now that the
possibility of rescue
was so close, hope be-
came unmanageable.
She realised, as she
waited for the other’s
opinion, that she had
been thrusting the
idea of safety deep
into her subconscious
mind, schooling her-
seif to what she thought to be the inevit-
able.
Gibbons drew a deep breath. “It is!”
he whispered half-incredulously. “By God,
it is!” He turned to her suddenly, arms
open for her. “Flora girl, we’ll be off here
in an hour or so! You won’t want to
change your mind, will you? About marry-
ing me?”
She shook her head, and smiled. But
the half-light of the stars hid from him the
bitterness that was in it.
“Of course not,” she answered, and moved
a little towards him. “No, Steve dear, I
have promised, and I never break promises.”
There was no reason why she should
break her promise she was telling herself
bitterly. The last possibility of that had
gone only that evening; but if Johns had
awakened to put his arms round her neck
to kiss her and call her “Flora”—well,
things might have been different, perhaps.
But, after all, it was only “nerhaps.” She
knew that she was too fond of Johnny,
loved him too well, to have married him.
No, things were best as they were. In the
long run she would be happier.
Over the other’s shoulder she could see
the Southern Cross again—it was the symbol
of sacrifice!
Suddenly she nestled close to Gibbons,
and impetuously, and yet half-shyly, she
put her arms about his neck, and leaning
back her head a little, she looked at him,
so that the starlight found its mirror in her
eyes; and Gibbons stared at her in half-
incredulous joy.
“Steve dear.” She was smiling again but
this time there was.no bitterness to need
the refuge of the half light. Her face was
suddenly transfigured. “Steve dear, there’s
no one in the world that I would marry
except you. And it won’t be very long
now, will it, dear? T,he captain of the
boat can do it for us, can’t he?”
Gibbons stared at her as though he could
not believe his ears, nor yet his eyes. He
had often conjured up visions of what
Flora might be if ever she did drop her
mask of repose; but that she could approxi-
mate to the charming, wistful beauty, the
strange mixture of eagerness and shyness,
the maddening half-woman, half-child, that
was now resting in his arms, he had never
dreamed.
But her mood of elation missed almost as
quickly as it had come. Suddenly she
shivered, and, before he could kiss her, she
had pushed herself away from him, her
breath coming sharply. It was the stab-
bing pain in her chest that had brought
her back to realities. She was afraid of
his caresses.
“You’d better signal the boat, hadn’t
you?” she said anxiously. “We can’t risk
being missed now!”
She watched him summon the mate and
the kanakas. She listened, uninterestedly,
to the cries of excitement as he -minted out
the light to them. It was definitely estab-
lished now, the light. As she watched it,
she picked out a tiny point of green, low
down on the ocean, and knew it for the
starboard light. From the distance between
the two she guessed that it must be a fairly
big vessel that had appeared so providen-
tially on the scene.
With an indifference oddly at variance
with her mood of a few minutes before
she watched the kanakas piling wood for
the beacon fire.
It was then that she realised suddenly the
miraculousness of their escape from the
storm. The Spindrift had suffered terribly
at the hands of the inferno of wind and
water. Everything on board had been
washed away. Even the signal locker had
been stripped bare by waves that had at
times engulfed the Spindrift from stem to
stern.
An overwhelming conviction came to her
that Gibbons had been right—God had
taken a hand in their preservation.
“But only for Johnny’s sake,” she whis-
pered to herself, very humbly, half-bitterly,
half-gratefully. Grateful that Johnny
should have been on board. “He wouldn’t
have bothered His head about the rest of
us!”
Then, as the velvet sky was suddenly
gashed by the red incision of a rocket
answering their signal fire, she turned across
the sloping deck, and made her way to the
cabins.
It was significant, she told herself, that
the only cabin left habitable at all should
have been Johnny’s.
BOOK IV—THE SYLVANIA.
Chapter I.
Ernest William Johns, M.A. Oxon., lifted
a leaden-weighted hand to a head that
throbbed agonisingly. It was a movement
scarcely realised by his brain; the mists
of unconsciousness were still there. As
through a veil he saw the faint outlines
of the cabin, illuminated by light that fil-
tered at a strange angle through the port-
hole. Dimly he realised that someone,was
moving rapidly about the cabin, and that
outside there was an odd mixture of silence
and noise. Silence so far as the customary
sounds of the voyage were concerned; noise
that one did not expect to hear on the
lonely surface of the ocean —shoutings and
an occasional gay burst of semi-hysterical
laughter that seemed to come from the
ocean itself.
And then for a moment the figure in the
cabin moved into the shaft of light, that
flowed through the porthole.
“Fay!”
He heard his voice, oddly husky and un-
real, and he heard the sounds of movement
within the cabin cease. Their cessation
seemed to emphasise the hammering in his
head, so that each pulse rang out with the
insistency of sledge on blacksmith’s, anvil.
Automatically his hand went to his supra-
orbital nerve. But there was no pain there.
He recognised the fact with a start. This
was different, then, to his usual awakenings.
His body ached, but it was not the ache
of drug-starved nerves. He would have
liked time to spare to marvel over that, but
he was too occupied in listening for further'
sounds of movement from that silent figure
by the port.
“Fay!”
His voice was a little stronger this time,
and he held his breath. Was it only a
dream, after all? Would he wake sud-
denly to find himself back in the world of
reality? No, he would not do that! If
it were only a dream he would keep it as
such. He would not wake up—if only his
throbbing head would allow him to stay
dreaming.
For an instant the throbbing itself ceased;
he was oblivious to everything save that
the figure was moving towards him. He
could not see her clearly—there seemed to
be a veil still in front of his eyes. But he
could at least see the aureole of hair that
caught the stray gleams of light even, in
the comparative darkness near his bunk,
and with a whispered “Fay!” he lifted his
arms to her in an effort that racked him
with sudden stabbing pain which blotted
out, in a burst of searing flame, the faint
rays of consciousness.
But his arms had succeeded in reaching
the neck of the girl as she bent over him.
and for a moment she knelt beside the
bunk, his arms still about her neck, and
then, as the nerveless hands fell slowly from
her shoulders, two scalding tears accom-
panied them.
“Oh, Johnny—Johnny, darling!” Flora
whispered, and passionately she kissed the
two drops of moisture from his drawn face.
Then, smoothing his pillows hastily, she
hurried up on deck.
“Steve, tell them we want some brandy,
quickly!” she called.
The boat—she saw now that it was a
liner, the rails thronged with a curious and
excited crowd—was not twenty yards away
from them, and she wondered as she
watched it rising and falling in majestic
leisureliness with the slow surges of the
ocean whether it carried a doctor.
As she stepped into the direct glow of
the searchlight that was turning a narrow
strip of the night into day, she heard a
woman’s voice, high pitched under the
stimulus of hysteria, cry: “Oh, there’s a
woman on board, too!” and she sensed
rather than saw the sudden focussing of
attention on herself.
She waved a curt acknowledgment of
the greeting, and then stood motionless,
watching impatiently the methodical and
speedy, although to her apparently inter-
minable, launching of the lifeboat from the
boatdeck that towered high in the skies
above the drunken-looking hulk that had
once been the Spindrift. She could hear
the incessant stream of comment that came
from the passengers, and contemptuously
she compared their garrulity with the grim,
efficient silence of the men who w’ere pre-
paring to rescue the castaways. To the
latter it was more or less a matter of duty;
it was part of the routine, so to speak. But
to the passengers it was an Incident that
would stand out clearly in their landlocked
minds for the rest of their lives; a thing
to be related to admiring stay-at-home
friends, with frills and embroideries that
would grow with the advancing years.
One woman in particular grated on her
nerves. She had a high nasal voice which
only ceased from broadcasting idiotic com-
ments and ideas to break out into hysteri-
cal laughter. It was not that she saw any-
thing funny in the proceedings—Flora-real-
ised that—but rather that she belonged to
that unfortunate class of female which
automatically labels itself neurotic. The
idea of that terrible voice, gabbling inter-
minably, in the drawing-rooms of Subur-
bia, of its owner’s “wonderful Experience”
drove the girl to a sudden frenzy of' hatred.
She hated the woman, she hated the type
which the woman represented, and the nar-
row, fusty circles wherein such creatures
lived and moved and had their prurient-
minded being. She could imagine the
creature’s horror when she learned that
the woman aboard the Spindrift had been
married to none of the men who had
been her travelling companions. Hers.
Flora guessed (and shrewdly), was the
type of mentality found only in the
prurient-minded, passionless mass which
formed the great majority of humanity;
the type that would thrill at the thought
of “rescuing” her—or, rather, watching
other more daring spirits do the rescuing—
from the ocean, but that would shrink in


<4
/ N
LET
THE
SEYMOUR
DIGGER
DO THE
DIGGING!
You cannot afford to
have a man spending
any longer than is
absolutely necessary in
erecting a fence.
The Seymour Post Hole
Digger in making a fence 72
chains long, saved no less
than twelve days.
8 Sizes, 3in. to 1 Oin.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
f'JS'PfiersonS)
Equipment
for the
Man
on
the
Land
«
m
a
m
m
m
me,
m
A GOOD ROPE
HOIST
FOR FARMERS
When handling big loads, moving
stumps, pumps, etc., a reliable
Hoise will save you much laborious
effort and time.
MAKES A SPLENDID
WIRE STRAINER
The “Star” Rope Hoist, as illustrated,
is designed to lower, elevate, lock,
and unlock by manipulation of one rope
only. Made of best malleable iron and
steel, is thoroughly reliable.
Available in several capacities.
Capacity. Size of Rope.
No. 42 15001 b. I to | inch
No. 32 12501 b. \ to | inch
No. 22 7501 b. 1 to \ inch
No. 2 5001 b. | inch
Prices on application.
Rope required for above Hoists as follows:
No. 42, 8-|-lb.; No. 32, 7i-lb.; No. 22, 4£lb.;
No. 2, 3£lb.
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
PUMPS
“ACME” HAND PUMP.
i
This is one of the best Hand Pumps
procurable. Suitable _ for general
pumping, spraying, filling tanks, fire-
fighting, etc.
Brass valve seats are fitted, which are,
of course, far superior to the common
iron seat fitted to other pumps.
Because of the Cog-geared Head, the
“Acme” requires one-third less manual
labor to work it. Will give 1600 gallons
per hour. Prices on application.
SEND FOR THIS:
Our Pump Catalogue shows many types
of Hand- and Power-driven Pumps
designed for Agricultural and Industrial
Full particulars of each type are given,
together with prices and 4 capacities.
Details of piping, fittings. Spray Pumps,
etc., also shown. Copies sent free.
FAMOUS “MACSON” DOUBLE-
ACTING PISTON PUMP.
'‘Macson” Pumps can be supplied coupled
direct to electric motor or engine.
A splendid pump for general water-
supply work. ,
Has proved very useful on farms,
stations and in factories. ,
In making this pump at our own works,
we embodied several exclusive features
which render the ‘‘Macson” superior to
all other pumps of a similar type.
The cylinder is fitted with an exception-
ally heavv brass liner w r hich is practic-
ing everlasting. To prevent leaking or
blowing out at the cylinder head, it and
the cylinder casing are cast in one piece.
Obtainable in five sizes, giving outputs of
424 gallons to 3550 gallons per hour at
°5O r.p.rn. Sizes are for Tim. to 3in.
piping. Prices on application.
“RAPID” CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
Centrifugal Pumps ;ire used where large
quantities of water are required, pressure
being a secondary consideration. “Rapid"
Centrifugal Pumps are of a most modern
design and are very economical to run.
The type illustrated above is a Single
Stage, for heads up to 50 feet.
We manufacture Two-Stage and Multi-
Stage Pumps for greater heads.
Made in several sizes: For lin. pipes
(1200 galls, per hour) up to 6in. pipes
(30.000 galls, per hour), and larger if
required.
If desired, can be supplied fitted to
Electric Motor or Engine.
Prices and particulars on request.
We Carry Large Stocks of Piping and
Fittings, Pipe Tools, Farmers’ Tools and
Tools for Orchardists, Sawmillers,
Garages, Motorists, Plumbers, Tinsmiths,
Engineers, Woodworkers, Mines, etc.
Catalogues sent on request.
McPherson-
Proprietary Limited
“DEPENDABLE GOODS SINCE 1830.”
51 BATHURST STREET SYDNEY
554 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE
116-130 WAYMOUTH STREET, ADELAIDE
532 MURRAY STREET PERTH
horror from the contamination of her pres-
ence aboard their liner, should she and her
type learn of what Flora had once been.
Just as they would take a vicarious exhil-
aration in her rescue from the ocean, so
they' would take an actual and sanctimoni-
ous delight in thrusting her still further
back into the mire that had once been her
life.
She laughed suddenly and turned to Gib-
bons, who was standing at the rail waiting
the arrival of the lifeboat with the calm
stoicism of the seafarer. In a few minutes
now he would be leaving what had once
been his fortune—leave it to its inevitable
fate. The presence of the liner made his
ruin an actuality beyond the hope of
rescission.
For a few seconds she studied him
quietly, unobserved; the searching rays of
the high-powered light on the liner’s fore-
castle showed up every line on his face.
And they were deeply chiselled—more so
than she could remember ever to have seen
them previously. But for all that his face
showed impassive under the revealing rays.
Stephen Gibbons might be suffering, but
he was too proud to suffer publicly.
For the moment Flora was oblivious to
the watching eyes on the larger vessel. She
forgot that she and Gibbons were, for the
time being, the central figures on a flood-
lit stage. A great wave of feeling swept
over her, and she laid her hand on his arm.
“Steve, dear, I think you’re wonderful!”
The words came out involuntarily, born
of the tenseness of the past hours. And,
equally involuntarily, oblivious also to the
blinding searchlight and the watching faces,
Stephen Gibbons suddenly turned and took
her in his arms. For an instant she sur-
rendered herself; and then she was pushing
him away gently with her hands against
his chest.
“Steve, dear!” She was half-laughing,
half-sobbing. “Steve, have a heart!
What’ll the people think?”
A little ripple of added excitement had
stirred the liner’s passengers, and someone
gave a cheer. The sudden touch of romance
had caught at their imagination, and a
voice started to sing. The words were
taken up all along the rail; the vocal exer-
cise served as an efficient safety-valve for
emotions difficult to express otherwise, and
yet impossible to repress entirely. There
was something about this rescue at sea,
this sudden steaming upon near-tragedy,
that caught at the imagination. Each of
those people on the luxurious liner had
suddenly been touched by the reality of
the ocean. It was now not just so much
water to be steamed over while flirtations
were conducted and land was out of sight.
It had suddenly become an entity, a grim
reality; it might have been any one of
them who was on the smaller boat! The
chance of shipwreck, that always seems so
remote on twelve to thirteen thousand tons
of luxury, was before their eyes, unpleas-
antly; and the song was perhaps a round-
about manner of thankful prayer.
But it scarcely sounded that. The old,
familiar, rollicking words, ringing out in
a triumphant volume of sound that spread
through the surrounding night, added an
incongruous touch of carnival to the scene.
Chapter 11.
It was the sound of the singing that
slowly brought Johns back to conscious-
ness. The present returned by easy stages,
and the first of these was the yellow
Thames where he and seven other oars-
men panted in the fight for breath while
the banks of the river resounded with the
stirring chorus: “For they are jolly good
fellows”—he could see the shoulders of
Stroke heaving mightily in front of him,
and over the heaving shoulders he could
see the face of young Singerby, twitching
with happy excitement as he talked to
them through the miniature megaphone
that was strapped over his mouth.
, “Well rowed, you men! A canvas and
a half! Now, then, straighten up, boys.
All ready”
And then Singerby and Stroke’s heaving
shoulders disappeared, dissolving slowly
into darkness But still the singing con-
tinued .... Then there was faint light
and the singing still continued, and the
rocking of the boat could still be felt....
He turned painfully a little on one side,
and the details of the cabin emerged slowly,
as though reluctantly, from the half-light,
that had followed the darkness. Even then
he realised nothing but that, as had so
often happened before, returning conscious-
ness had snatched him back from the plea-
sant world of dreams to the world of grim
reality. He was still on board the Spin-
drift—still ten thousand miles or more,
'and God alone knew how many weary
weeks —or months or years!—away from
tlie gentle, dreaming, old-world Alma Mater
'that always called so irresistibly to him.
He turned still further as a figure came
'through the door.
“Hullo, Flora,” he said weakly. “What
are you doing here?” He passed his hand
across his forehead in a puzzled gesture.
!, Tm still dreaming,” he added irritably,
half to himself.
“No, Johnny.” The girl’s voice was
gentle, full of sympathy. “There’s no dream
'.about it. It’s the real thing. We’re saved.”
He blinked at her through the half-light.
She suddenly remembered that he knew
: nothing of the Spindrift’s fate. He had
- been unconscious through the storm.
She told him in a few vivid sentences of
all that, had happened since the sudden
swinging open of the porthole.
He nodded once or twice.
“So that’s why things seem half topsy-
turvy!” he exclaimed. It was a relief to
learn that all those things, had such a
simple explanation—the tilting of the cabin;
the light which, coming through the port-
hole, bisected the cabin with a silver knife;
the singing that had continued after his
dream had gone. That, in itself, was inter-
esting—an evidence of the effect that actual
events can have on the sleeping brain.
He took the brandy that she had brought
with her, and drank it. The almost-
neat spirit burned a passage down his throat
that set him suddenly coughing with water-
ing eyes. But it rallied his senses, so that
he could realise the import of the girl’s
words. The Spindrift a total loss! They
were going to abandon her at once. Poor
old Gibbons—it meant a crippling blow to
him!
“Yes,” Flora nodded as he voiced his
thoughts. “Poor old Steve’s been badly
hit—in that way. But it doesn’t seem to
worry him as much as it might.”
She broke off abruptly. Of course—
Johnny did not know that she had pro-
mised to marry Steve. She had just been
going to tell him when the swinging port
had blotted out his consciousness. She
searched for an easy way to break the news
to him. But, before she could find it, Gib-
bons and the Second Officer from the liner
came into the cabin.
“Good man!”
Gibbons was relieved to see Johns con-
scious. The last time he had been in the
cabin the other had looked as though he
were dying.
“We’ll give you a hand, Johnny, if you
can manage to stand up. It’ll be easier
for you that way than trying to carry you
with this list.”
Johns got to his feet with difficulty. The
change in posture made his head throb
worse than before, but he gritted his teeth.
“I can manage,” he said irritably, shak-
ing off the hand that the Second had put
under his arm. But the first gentle roll
of the Spindrift’s hulk disproved his asser-
tion, and he lurched towards the door.
Flora was standing by it, and she caught
him as he fell. The sudden dead weight
in her arms wrenched draggingly at her.
She could not hold him up. The effort
brought to life the pain in her chest again.
And then, as her knees gave way, she col-
lapsed on the flooi’, Johns still held despe-
rately in* her .arms, and a sudden roaring
in her ears. A hot, salt taste in her mouth
marked for her, her last conscious moment
on the Spindrift.
“Hell!”
It was Gibbons who made the comment
as he stared at the two figures on the floor.
They had fallen just where the beams of
the searchlight flooded the cabin, and the
details of the scene were etched vividly on
the minds of both men. The crimson
blotch that stained the girl’s lips and chin
and trickled thinly to the floor empha-
sised the ashiness of her face.
“My God!” The Second was appalled.
“My God —she’s a goner!”
“No!” Gibbons, already on his knees
with the girl’s head in his arms, stared up
wildly at the other. “No, I tell you! It
mustn’t be—not after all we’ve gone
through. It couldn’t be! She’s got to get
better!”
He bent over and kissed the cold lips.
When he looked up again a patch of crim-
son had transferred itself to his chin, oddly
like an amateurish false beard. He stared
dully at the Second.
“Get them aboard—that’s what we’ve got
to do. Quick!”
The dulness had disappeared from Gib-
bons’s eyes, and he staggered to his feet,
still holding the unconscious Flora. He
lifted her so that he was carrying her like
a baby. “You bring him,” he ordered, nod-
ding at Johns. He felt a sense of griev-
ance; at the moment he could cheerfully
have thrown the unconscious Englishman
overboard. If it had not been for him and
his damned pigheaded independence Flora
would still have been conscious, would still
have had her full supply of blood to fight
the germs. It was the strain of trying to
hold up Johns that had brought on the
haemorrhage. That was obvious—blast him!
As he made his way across the deck to
the waiting boat he heard a murmur of
sympathy from the rails of the liner. He
cursed at them under his breath. “Blasted
sensation-seekers! ”
“Go like hell!” he ordered the men at
the oars, and took up the tiller lines.
Though they might well have questioned
his authority, they did not hesitate. The
crimson patch, which showed starkly against
the white of the unconscious girl’s blouse,
was authority in itself.
Eager hands tried- to take his burden
from him as he labored up the ship’s gang-
way, which had already been let down. But
he glared them back, and, his breath whist-
ling through his lips with the exertion of
his climb, lie followed the ship’s surgeon.
“Put her there.”
The medico was young, but he was alert,
and his eyes had that compelling force in
them which marks the difference between
the born healer and the painfully taught
“layman with a medical, degree.” Between
the two there is all the difference in the
world.
It did not occur to Gibbons to question
the extent of the other’s experience. He
knew that Flora was in good hands—he
laid her gently on the bed and stood back
while the young doctor made a rapid, super-
ficial examination.
“Have to take some of her things off,”
he said over his shoulder. “Ring that bell.”
A stewardess appeared almost immedi-
ately. The doctor made a gesture towards
the bed. The stewardess nodded. Gibbons
found himself being conducted gently out-
side.
“Will she live?”
The young doctor shook his head.
“Don’t know, old man. Can’t tell till
I’ve examined her—and even then one can’t
be sure Any idea how long she’s had
it?”
“A year—two years God knows”
Gibbons shook his head. The effort of
remembering when, on which visit, he had
noticed her cough for the first time was too
much for him in his anxiety. He was not
even sure that, he had ever noticed it at
all until she had told him—that night be-
fore she had come aboard the Spindrift—
with Johnny.
“Yes, it’s always hard to say how they’ll
do.” The doctor was interested in the pro-
blem. “I’ve seen them die when you’d have
sworn they’d live—and live when you
wouldn’t have given a dud halfpenny for
their chances”
(To he continued next iceek.)


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Next Saturday the last of the big Melbourne
jumping meetings begins. At Caulfield the
V.A.T.C. will stage the Australian Hurdle
Race. Moonee Valley racing threw little
fresh light ou prospects for the long-dis-
tance hurdle event. Poidale, a Poitrel geld-
ing owned by Peter Hay, the brewer, finished
well in the Mount Cotterell Jumpers’ Flat,
and lias strengthened in demand. Dunkeld
and Polygonum share favoritism, while Poi-
dale claims as many adherents as Claronga.
In view of his Jumpers’ Flat success, Bon
Haven looks the pick of the handicap at
9st. 31b.; but, unfortunately, he is not a
reliable jumper.
Polygonum, the Grand National hero, was
solidly supported for this Jumpers’ Flat; but
shaped far below expectations. Zygon, who
scored so convincingly over the battens at
Caulfield a week before, finished far back in
the field, after being well placed in the first
half of the journey. Shooting Boy and Land-
mark came home at the head of the un-
placed division; they are at long quotes for
the Australian Hurdle. Makeup, a stable-
companion of Landmark, is regarded as the
chief banner-bearer for J. J. Corry; bat,
on Melbourne form. Makeup is more adapted
to steeplechasing than service over the little
sticks.
Makeup’s decisive victory in the Lindsay
Gordon Steeplechase was the outstanding
feature of Moonee Valley sport. He took
charge six furlongs from home and, running
away from his rivals, won, easing up, by
five lengths from Baver Lad (brother to
Sandhurst), who was a head in advance of
Mosstrooper’s stablemate, Green Don. Neither
of the minor place-getters is engaged iii the
Australian Steeplechase. If he keeps on
improving and remains in commission for
another 12 months, Green Don may gather
further Grand National honors for Gus
Powell, who is a wizard with jumpers. Claude
Grice did not nominate Nauru for the Aus-
Gert: * Its quite simple when xou
know how *
Bert .'''Vea such a. PLEiLaHHT sensation
SAvdlNGi THROUGH -me ——
Ate."
Gert; *’ But not so nice when >OO
COME TO EARTH AGAIN f
tralian Steeplechase, and it is fortunate that
he refrained from doing so. The Blairmount
gelding was a warm favorite for the Lindsay
Gordon Steeple, but performed miserably.
Victorian provincial performers are shin-
ing on Melbourne courses. Zygon scored over
hurdles at Caulfield on July 16, and Eastern
Glow, the Warrnambool Cup winner, de-
moralised a field of middle-distance gallopers
at Moouee Valley on July 23. Last Satur-
day money was piled on Fleurolition for the
Sunset Welter. This gelding, whose sire,
imported Fleuriste, ran second to Rostrum
in the A.J.C. Epsom Handicap 10 years ago,
vanquished Eastern Glow in a race at Hamil-
ton. As Fleurolition was handicapped at
only 51b, more than the minimum, and 71b.
was claimed for the apprentice rider, punters
regarded him as a good thing. With ordinary
luck Fleurolition could not have lost. Knocked
hack to the rear of the field and still second-
last at the half-mile, he finished third to
Glideaway and Valmist.
Cecil Godby lias bad poor success as a
trainer since he captured the Caulfield Cup
of 1924 with Purser. He trains Glideaway,
a Great Star colt, for 11. L. Spry, and
backed him with confidence, notwithstanding
the Fleurolition boom. A. Sharpe, the
Queensland jockey, who has taken up resi-
dence in Melbourne and replaced Ashley
Reed as first jockey to Godby’s stable,
brought Glideaway along with a well-timed
run and defeated Frank Dempsey’s mount,
Valmist, by three-quarters of a length. E.
M. Pearce bred Valmist, who is by Valaisian,
a son of Valais. For the time being Pearce
is not racing horses, but he attends meetings
regularly and doubtless will return to the
fold of owners. Umbertana appropriated tlu
Derrimut Handicap for Jack Holt without
much effort, and the consistent but under-
rated Rex Aurantic captured the chief flat
race of the afternoon.
4 4 4 4
For Caulfield on Saturday:—
Malakoff Stakes: Royal Barb; next,
Eastern Glow.
Australian Hurdle: Dunkeld; next,
Poidale.
Mornington Welter: Walter Scott; next,
Bermosca.
:|s i'i Jfc «5*
“Six to four the field, six to one bar one,”
was the opening call on the Nursery Handi-
cap at Rosehill on Saturday. The barred
one was Bronze Hawk, a brown gelding by
Brazen —Lero, trained by Chris O’Rourke for
W. Hadley, and ridden on this occasion by
McCarten. Brazen has succeeded Valais as
the most-talkcd-of English-bred sire; but
first impressions of his progeny were un-
favorable. A Sydney trainer (not O’Rourke)
had a couple of them in his stable last
season ; they were as wild as hawks, and
remained at the post as often as not. Kuvera,
the Derby favorite, and Bronze Hawk are
mettlesome, but less intractable. At Rose-
hill Bronze Hawk ran a bit green; but his
pace prevailed, and at the end he was
coming away from Booth’s Roman Spear
(Spearhead—Royal Romance) and Sky
Brightener, completing the “six” in lmin.
144 sec. Being a gelding he is not eligible for
this year’s Derby. In any case, he doesn’t
take the eye as a stayer; nor does Kuvera,
for that matter.
Ramrod, a disappointment at Warwick
Farm, was favorite for the Maiden Three-
year-old Handicap, backers evidently reason-
ing that the A.J.C. handicapper must have
known something when he gave Ramrod 7st.
51b. in the Metrop. The Spearhead-Ramson
gelding did a little better than at the Farm,
but he was no match at the finish for Gold
Mag (7 to 1) and Lindean (4 to 1). Gold
Mag, though bred in Australia, being by
Magpie—Kaahumanu, is owned and trained
by a Maorilander, J. A. Hennah, and was
ridden by another, Roy Reed.
Eights and tens for the Varroville Handi-
cap at Warwick Farm, Orby An thus was
never better than 7 to 4 for the six-furlong
race in the same class at Rosehill. There
was ap impression that lie had been unlucky
at the Liverpool course, but his short price
on Saturday was chiefly attributable to
scratchings. As it happened, he was not
equal to getting a place. Holdfast (7 to 2),
one of the fastest horses in Australia, made
every post a winner, and was well clear at
the finish from Erbie (7 to 2) and Oratorian
(any price) a half-brother to Oratrix and
Concentrate, and evidently an improving
sort. Holdfast is in the Epsom with 9st-
-51b., and his condition can be improved.
Whether he cares for a mile is another
matter.
Maoriland was again to the fore in the
Rosehill Handicap. It had two representa-
tives. King March (9 to 2) and Havering
(7 to 1), and Havering proved the trust-
worthy one, King March disappointing again.
Salvador (5 to 1) tried to come away from
the field, as he had done in the race of the
same name two weeks before, but Havering
kept pegging away and fairly worried him
out of it in the end. Havering is a big-
barrelled chestnut by Quin Abbey—Dreamer,
in appearance robust enough for a fencer.
He has Bst. 31b. in the Metrop. Sunlover
(20 to 1), moving well over the last furlong
of 10 (run in 2min. 6sec.) was third, and
may pick up a race presently.
Carlingford Mile running rather shattered
the impression, formed by many people a
week before, that Topical (8 to 1) has an
Epsom chance. The Windbag—Parody gelding
was beaten into third position by the in-and-
out Trenette (7 to 1) and Talkie (8 to 1).
Trenette was ridden by Lightfoot, so suc-
cessful at Warwick Farm.
4 * 4 4
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Denham Court Handicap: Greensea;
next, Sunlit Reef.
Novice Handicap: Ramrod; next, Coun-
terpart.
August Handicap: Valparaiso; next, Sal-
vador.
Edensor Park Handicap: Topical; next,
New King.
ifc ❖ *
“FY7” : One delightful old ramp that has
vanished from Australian racing was the
grand old institution of the Selling Race.
Outwardly it was designed to give owners of
poor-quality horses a chance to pick up a
little money plus what their moke would
bring at the subsequent auction, provided
it won. In practice, things worked in
another fashion. Every horse had a reserve
put on him. If it was £5O, he was entitled
to a 51b. allowance, and so on. A horse
with no reserve was allowed 211 b. This
gave owners a grand chance to do their own
handicapping and it must be said they
always took advantage of it. It paid an
owner of a good sort to enter his prad
without a reserve and thus make a moral
of his winning. The prad was well backed
and when he won he could be bought back
again, with a handsome profit on the deal.
As usual, however, the boys made it too
hot, and selling races were wiped out. The
wonder is that they lasted as long as they
did.
“Thormanby”: What is thought to be the
record price for a thoroughbred stallion at
auction —£47,000 —was bid at the New-
market sales for Solario, by Gainsborough.
Solario won the Leger in 1925, and was
bought by his owner, the late Sir John
Rutherford, as a yearling, for £3675. He
has proved successful at the stud and has
been a good bargain to his owner. There is
one saddening reflection in connection with
the horse. After he won the Leger the Aga
Khan offered £lOO,OOO for him, but the offer
was turned down. Though the Americans
tried to get him, the horse remains in Eng-
land, the buyer being Lord Glanelly, who won
the 1919 Derby with Grand Parade.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“N.S.C.”: After watching the Stribling-
Wine fiasco at Sydney Stadium for a few
rounds, I transferred my attention to Hugh
D. Mclntosh. Attixed in what the dailies
call faultless evening dress, and with the
natural asceticism of his scholarly counten-
ance accentuated by pince-nez, he sat on a
platform high above the fighters—if one can
call them such —and broadcast the proceed-
ings for the benefit of the old folks at home.
I beguiled the leaden minutes by imagining
some of the things those mobile, sensitive
lips were not saying: “Well, folks, this so-
called Montana Slugger, this mountain of
meat, who sold himself, God forgive me, as
the most punishing smiter in America, is
still pushing Stribling round the ring with
his face. I said with his face; he only
uses his hands to hang on with. Did you
hear a noise like something being hit with
the flat side of a palingV It was Stribling
hitting Wine on the jaw. The sound that,
followed was caused by Wine being hit on
the other side of the jaw. No; he isn’t
hurt. He’s holding his jaw out for another.
A problem that has been worrying me for
some time, listeners, is: ‘Gan Wine take
them or is Stribling unable to give them?'
Suppose McGoorty had landed that last left
hook. Would his opponent be asking for
another, as Wine is at this moment? Suppose
Darcy—not to mention Sam Langford—had
obliged with the right cross you just, heard,
would the man who collected it be still mov-
ing in? Would he be standing up? I fancy
not, folks, I fancy not! Which brings me
to my point, namely: On his showing to date,
isn’t Stribling as big a palooka as his fellow-
countryman? He couldn’t put little Palmer
out. Could he put anyone of class out?” At
this stage the crowd started hooting the
entertainment, and the great promoter’s lan-
guage got so sulphurous that I turned again
to the spectacle of Wine trying to break his
adversary’s hands, or at least destroy the effect
of the latter’s last manicure, with his chin.
4 4 4 4
A 1 Karasick (13st. lib.), back in Sydney
and as energetic a showman as ever, was too
wily for Dean Detton (18st. 31b.) at Syd-
ney Stadium on Saturday night. A flying-
tackle ended Detton’s interest in the encoun-
ter after each had got a fall and the Rus-
sian had pretended to be groggy. At Leich-
hardt King Elliott (13st. 131 b.) and Cana-
dian Walter Browning (14st. 31b.) wrestled
another draw. They have met many times,
but Leichhardt is still interested in their
stuff.
* s> * *
“D ” • T im satisfied that the nersistent
pen-slamming™ s?yfo jabbing! etc. P admin
istered to wrestlers by press scribes is founded
on fear. The worst a boxer ever did to a
press scribe was to eject an occasional
mouthful of bloodstained water over him,
and now that basins such as one sees in
dentists’ rooms are provided by most man-
agements sporting journalists have nothing
at all to fear, with the exception of a passing
whiff from a bookmaker’s cigar which, how-
ever nauseating, is not actually dangerous,
How different is the position of our literary
men when the wrestlers begin their even-
ing’s work! At Sydney Stadium on Satur-
day night Karasick (Russia or somewhere
similar) more than once crawled out of tfie
ring to avoid Detton (U.S.A.), using the
bowed heads of A.J.A. members as stepping-
stones. After he had torn the referee’s
shirt open and been kicked from behind by
Detton while walking to his corner, be spat
on a journalistic friend of mine who has
hitherto been one of his supporters. He is
said to have been aiming at Detton, but what
consolation was that to my friend? And
then there was the fourth “session,” in which
both Karasick and Detton—nearly 30 stone
of bone, muscle and blubber—fell through
the ropes together on to a hard-working
scribe who is married, a father and unin-
sured. God knows what would have hap-
pened if Detton hadn’t picked up Karasick
and made as though to throw him at. a
Stadium director. The threatened profana-
tion brought a police official to his feet with
a panic scream of “Chop it out!” and what
might have been a tragedy was averted. But
no one cares what happens to pressmen.
The crowd unquestionably love these exhi-
bitions. Their cries of joy are transparently
sincere, and anyone who testifies to the con-
trary is either dull-witted or biased. The
toilers immediately below the ring are the
only ones who can’t see the fun, and as I
said before it is sheer terror that has rob-
bed them of a sense of the spectacular and
substituted vpunm in its nlaee
substituted venom m its place.
’ ~
Footbrawl
Wintry weather made little difference to
the 40,000 enthusiasts who packed the Albert
Park (Vic.) ground on Saturday—so tightly
that they pushed over the inner fence and
injured two persons, who had to be taken to
hospital. The occasion was the meeting of
“Sowth” and Carlton, first and second ou
the list. Settling down at once, “Sowth” got
a 4-goal lead; then the Blues pulled them-
selves together and a dingdong go followed,
each team getting a few points on the other
right throughout. In the last quarter the
pace was furious, and weight was used freely,
but the Blues kept their heads the better,
while the southerners missed a few chances:
so the bell found Carlton with 89 points.
South Melbourne with 80. Davey, Cri.
Gill and Shea sparkled for the Blues ; Bissetf.
Brain and Robertson for the others. Down
at Geelong the locals pleased most of til
12,000 spectators by a desperate battle
against Collingwood. Defeat meant the los<
of all hope of reaching the finals. The
Magpies’ early lead was steadily reduced
until at lemon-time Geelong had 33 points in
hand. The Maggies’ deadly kicking brought
goal after goal, but a few fierce rushes saved
Geelong’s bacon—9s points to ’Wood’s 70.
The other games counted nothing in the
scheme of things. Richmond scored 90 to
Melb.’s 66; ’Scray 74 to ’Roy’s 49; Haw-
thorn 61 to Saints’ 50: Essendon 98 to
North’s 92.
4 4 4 4
The Rugby codes in Sydney got back to
the club competitions _on Saturday. Manly
won the minor premiership from Northern
Suburbs after a hard and sometimes rough
game in which a good deal of feeling was
shown by both' sides. Final scons were
16- the Villagers, on their own ground, scor-
ing 4 tries and 2 goals to 2 tries, a penalty and
a converted goal. The match was more even
than the scores indicate, and North ern Sub-
urbs had not the best of luck when it
staged a strenuous rally in the last quarter
and lost chance after chance of scoring.
Both forward lines worked like Trojans, but
the Manly backs, with Tolhurst in rare scor-
ing mood at threequarter. were superior to
the opposition. The winners, even if beaten
in the semi-finals and finals, have now the
right to a challenge round. At the Sydney
Cricket Ground Western Suburbs made
short work of the in-and-out Randwick side,
winning handily by 26-14. At Drummoyne
Oval, the local men beat Eastern Suburbs
17- the latter being minus several of their
stars. University won a hard match with
St. George, 12-9.
4 4 4 4
The Rugby League games went much as
was expected. South' Sydney, now leading
in the competition, had an easy gallop
against Balmain at Sydney Sports Ground,
winning 17-4. It was a dull match, for.
though the winners threw the ball about
occasionally. Balmain closed the game ui>
whenever possible, the forwards doing well
in this particular. Ben Wearing of Souths
showed a return to his early attacking form,
scoring a characteristic try and kicking 4
goals. At Marrickville the lads from Eastern
Suburbs astonished themselves by downing
Newtown by 40 to nil. At Pratten Park. Wes-
tern Suburbs ran up another cricket score
tacking on 45 points to 5 against North
Sydney. At Earl Park St. George won a
dull game from University by 9-8.
4 * * *
The first League test between the English
team and Maori!and was played in Auckland,
the tourists winning by 24-9, after the home
side had established a 9-6 lead in the first
half. Maoriland gave the big crowd of
25,000 a good run for its money, but the
combination of the visitors was too good.
The ex-Union star. A. E. Cooke, was the
best man in the game, both in attack and
defence. England scored 6 tries to one and
3 goals to 3.
* 4 4 4
“Nark”: The N.S.W. Rugby League,
which is about as popular with the country
Leagues as a dead mouse at the bottom of
a newly-drained pot of beer, has been having
a lot of trouble with a group of clubs known
as Group Nine. This last week passed a
resolution seceding from the N.S.W. body,
and arranging to call a conference of all flic
country groups and Newcastle with the idea
of starting a new League to control all
country football. Also suggested is the
setting up of a State council on which city
and country Leagues would be represented
to control inter-State and international
games. Yet another alternative is to give
the country equal representation with the
city on the present N.S.W. League. Which-
ever way it goes, the happening is a direct
act of rebellion against the Sydney body,
which has been asking for a kick for years
by its disregard of any but metropolitan
interests.
(Continued on next page.)
France succeeded in retaining her hold on
the David Cup, winning three of the four
singles matches and dropping the doubles.
The surprise of the tourney was the renais-
sance of Borotra. Playing in the singles
sorely against his will, the, veteran defeated
both Vines and Allison. Cochet also downed
Allison, while he and Brugnon succumbed to
Allison and Van Ryn in the doubles match.
This is the sixth successive victory for
France, the first being in 1927.


BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which arc amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. .. .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability ■ .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 7! £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States,. Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
*"*■ should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd,. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The-
cpcc WIIFCT
CHANCE UP
OR DOWN
WITHOUT
TOUCHING
CLUTCH
Brings a new delight
and economy to you
with your old car.
Easily fitted without
interfering with
present drive.
A Melbourne-Bendigo
carrier, after 24,000
miles in use, says he
saves three gallons of
petrol per day.
-/01/S3
Plus
Small
Charge
for
Fitting.
Free demonstration*
with pleasure.
E. A. MACHIN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
535-541 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne, C. I. (Vic.).
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney (N.S.W.).
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD.,
894 Hay Street, Perth (W.A.).
MOTOR SUPPLIES, LTD.,
Perry Street, Brisbane (Q’land).
WESTCOTT, HAZELL AND
MOORE, LTD.,
282 Adelaide Street, Brisbane (Q-).
UNBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE, LTD.,
97 Currie Street, Adelaide (S.A.).
Footbrawl
'•Hotham”; The Victorian Football Asso-
ciation continues to take a gloomy view of
its future, which is seriously threatened by
the richer and more popular League. One
important suggestion put forward with a
view* to bettering matters is to cut out pro-
fessionalism. The example of the fine football
played by the Great Public Schools teams
is quoted in support. The idea is quite
feasible and amalgamation with the existing
amateur association would benefit both
bodit-s. There would be no more trouble
about raising money to pay players and no
more fights with the League over trafficking.
Trainers and coaches might remain on the
paysheet.
# ❖ ❖ $
“Tenakoe”: After an interval of several
years, Maoriland has made up its mind to
send a Soccer team to Australia next season,
no doubt being encouraged thereto by the
satisfactory gates drawn by the English
Leaguers and the Union All Blacks in this
depressed country. Soccer is now played
extensively in every State in Australia, the
only code, save the Australian, which can
make the boast. The Australian Associa-
tion also has a scheme afoot to bring out
teams from England and Scotland at the
same time.
sj: #
The All Blacks wound up their conquer-
ing tour of N.S.W. and Queensland with a
runaway victory—63-15—over the Western
districts of N.S.W. at Wellington. In spite
of the gloomy prognostications of the experts
after its opening match in Sydney, the side
has proved itself one of the most successful,
if not actually the best, that ever crossed
the Tasman. ’ Of the 10 matches played 9
were won and one—the first Test in Sydney
—lost. Points scored were 308 and the
total tally of the opposition was only 96.
One has to go back to the 1914 team, which
won all 10 matches, to find a better record.
Few M.L. sides have fielded a better lot of
forwards. In all Australia and M.L. have
met in 21 Tests, 5 in Maoriland and 16 :n
Australia. In Maoriland the home sides have
won 4 and lost 1. In Australia the All
Blacks have scored 10 victories to Australia’s
5. while one match has been drawn.
* * *!* H*
“Stand Off” : Sydney will see an interest-
ing finish to the football season with the
Rugby Union carnival, which opens with
the Queensland-N.S.W. match at Sydney
Cricket Ground on August 13. On the fol-
lowing Wednesday, a trial match for the
South African tour will be played between
N.S.W. and a combined Queensland and Vic-
torian team, and on Saturday August 20
N.S.W. will meet the Rest of Australia. In
addition to the Victorians in the trial
matches, it is hoped to include a Westralian,
an invitation to the W.R.U. to send over one
player having been forwarded. With the
trials concluded Queensland will go home
again, playing Newcastle on the way.
sis »!» s-:
“Swing th’ Boot” : The opening match of
the English League footballers in M.L. indi-
cates that the standard of the struggling pro-
fessional game there is even feebler than was
anticipated. The match was billed as Eng-
land v. North Island and the visitors strolled
in winners by 56-5. A glance at the M.L.
team for the first Test suggests that outside
Auckland and a small fraction of the West
Coast, the rest of Maoriland is not repre-
sented. Significant, too, is the inclusion of
the veteran Union player, A. E. Cooke.
Racquet and Bawl
“S.T.S.” : Wallis Myers, in his new book
of reminiscences, undertakes to grade the
best tennis players of the century. He
brackets IL L. Doherty and Tilden, the
former better in style but the other in
strength. Then R. F. Doherty. Coeliet,
Johnston, Brookes, Lacoste, Wilding, Bor-
otra, Patterson and Gore.
“Top Spin”: At the annual conference of
the International Tennis Federation America
is to propose that in future contests for
the Cup shall he played on “hard” courts
only. At present these are being played on
all sorts of surfaces, from bare earth to
artificial compositions, and, of course, grass.
Tennis was originally a grass game, because
it w r as invented in England, where the lawns
are the most perfect in the world. In every
other quarter of the globe, grass courts
are the exceptions and not the rule. Both
America and France play largely on hard
courts, and there can be little doubt but
that the proposed change will find general
favor outside England and one or two of the
Dominions. It is a logical move, and should
go far to standardise the game. It is not
unlikely that the time will come, too, when
cricketers will take the same step and for
the same reason.
Car and Cycle
“Differential”: A new Australian motor
record for a flying mile on the road was put
up last week by W. B. Thompson. The run
was made in the early morning on a level
stretch of concrete near Sydney. The car was
a 1496c.c. supercharged four-cylinder Bugatti,
and the mile was put behind in 32 l-10sec.,
an average of 112.49 m.p.h. This easily bear s
the previous best, 103 m.p.h. by F. A. Parle’s
eight-cylinder supercharged Bugatti some time
ago. When the car was crossing the finish-
ing line, the speed was between 120 and
125 m.p.h. The run was properly super-
vised and timed under direction of the
Sydney Bicycle and Motor Club.
“Whizz”: Those American car designers
who are out to beat Malcolm Campbell’s
world’s record of 253.96 m.p.li. (B. 27/7/’32)
had better look slippy, or they may have new
figures to top. Malcolm, in addition to alter-
ing the general design of his Bluebird
machine, is putting in a 2300-h.p. Roils
Itoyce aero, engine to replace the 1500-h.p.
gadget with which he put up his record at
Daytona in February last. Both he and the
Americans are confident of breaking 300
m.p.li., though such a performance looks to
be fraught ivith danger on the brief seven-
mile beach run at Daytona. However, in
spite of their superiority in nominal horse-
power, the Americans will be lucky to make
a new record. The British engines of the
type Campbell has installed simply stand out
by themselves for developing power.
* * * !|!
“Disc Clutch”: Brisbane motorists are
greatly interested in a new variable trans-
mission gear devised by Valton Wall, a pro-
minent local motor expert, who has been
working on his idea for some years. His aim
has been to perfect a gear system which will
not wear out in the life of the car. His
invention departs from accepted methods in
that the gear unit parts operate slower as
the car travels faster, while the gear ratio
increases until at ordinary driving speeds
the operation of the parts ceases, to all
intents and purposes. With the operating
parts practically motionless, wear, heat,
noise and friction are, naturally, largely
eliminated. The gear can be installed in any
make of car. and its substitution for that
existing is only a matter of a day’s work.
sji
“Kick Starter”: The motor-cycle has feAV
fields left to conquer, and if the ambitions
of Tryggvc Grann, the Norwegian explorer,
are realised one of those remaining will be
wiped off the unexplored map. Grann in-
tends to reach the South Pole by means of
a team of motor-cycles. The machines are
being built specially for him by a British
A PRELIMINARY PRECAUTION.
SARCASTIC SECOND (to his man’s opponent): “Say, sonny, ’oo’s yer next uv kin?”
firm and will be fitted with tandem rear
wheels connected by a caterpillar track to
grip the snow. They will draw a sledge
train carrying provisions and equipment,
and will be tested under Norwegian winter
conditions before the expedition starts. The
scheme has a fantastic sound, but since
Grann was a member of Scott’s expedition
of 1910-12, he should have a good idea of
what lie is up against.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Glenelg”: Entries for the Australian
golf championships to be played this year on
the Royal Adelaide course closed last week
in the various States. Victoria and N.S.W.
make up the bulk of the 70 entrants, though
naturally South Australia is well represented.
Lon Nettlefold is the sole representative of
the Speck; Queensland has not been heard
from. Eleven professionals have entered from
N.S.W. and nine from Victoria, while West-
ralia is contributing one. The series begins
on August 13 with the foursomes.
:S * * *
“Divot Digger”: The gulf between the
professional and amateur golfer is not so
wide as that between the amateur and pro-
fessional billiard-player, but it is not easy
to bridge, though there have been and are
exceptions. The disparity was emphasised
in a match between professionals and ama-
teurs in Sydney last week on the Austra-
lian club’s course at Kensington. Neither
side was at full strength, but the profes-
sionals ran away with the 12-a-side affair.
winning nine matches and losing two, while
one was squared. The winning amateurs
were Jim Ferrier, who beat the Australian
professional champion, Don Spence. 7 and
6, and W. IL Dobson, who downed W. Mac-
kenzie 1 1 up. A. N. Brown squared with
A. Howard.
“Hoylake” : Susie Tolhurst, just back from
Britain, is denying the rumor prevalent on
this side that she was “ostracised” on
British courses. The lady says she had a
royal time, while the fact that she beat an
English and an American ex-champion in two
rounds' of the British women's championship
also helped to make things pleasant.
'!• *,- * *
“Brassey”: Though she lost the singles
championship of N.S.W. to Joan Hammond
in the recent battle in Sydney for the
women’s State title, Odette Lefebvre, part-
nered by Mrs. Yuille, of Dubbo, won the
women’s foursomes. With two steady
rounds of 85 the winners finished with five
to spare from the holders of the title, Mes-
dames Pennefather and Read.
* * * *
“Hotham” : One of Victoria’s leading golf
trophies, the Dunlop Gup, was fought for
last week at the Victoria Club’s course, the
winner turning up in E. Naismith, w*ho beat
the former State professional champion, Don
Thomson, 5 to 4. Both men played fine
golf, but Naismitli’s deadliness on the greens
proved too much for his opponent. Though
lie has never scored one of the major cham-
pionships, the winner is a golfer of parts
and is one of the most difficult men in the
State to beat on his day. Thomson, who
won his title in 3930, is very solid, and a
noted match-player in any company.
* * *
“Seaton” : The winning of the South Aus-
tralian women’s golf championship by Kath-
erine Rymill rounded off a remarkable
family record in the Royal and Ancient
obsession. Just previously her brother, W.
S. Rymill, had won the State amateur title,
and as far back as 1913 Mrs. Herbert
Rymill, the new championette’s mother, also
won the women’s championship, her daugh-
ter then being an infant. Mrs. Fowler, the
young lady’s godmother, won the State title
four times from 1906 to 1912, while the
final in 1913 was between the mother and
godmother. The two young champions were
broken into golf at the earliest opportunity.
The clubhouse at Ivooyonga boasts a tiny
silver-mounted putter among its trophies.
All the members of the Rymill family, Kath-
erine and her three brothers, were initiated
by having this placed within their grip a
few hours after birth.
❖ ❖ £ sJJ
“Carnoustie”: That golf is not as free
of danger as many suppose is seen in the
unfortunate death last week of a Bathurst
(N.S.W.) schoolboy after he had been acci-
dentally struck on the side of the neck with
a swinging club. The game is full of hap-
penings of the kind, a similar fatality being
reported from America some years ago. The
earliest record of a golf casualty dates back
to 1743, when a Fife schoolmaster had to
have his leg amputated after it had been
struck by the feather-stuffed ball of those
days ! One of the Rothschilds lost an eye
playing in France some years ago, a ball
hitting the monocle he was wearing. In
England shortly afterwards the Japanese am-
bassador. Wakasugi. knocked himself out, his
drive rebounding from a post and hitting
him on the head. Then there was the Har-
rogate (Eng.) player who, excited by put-
ting down a long putt, threw his club into
the air. It landed on his opponent’s head
and he took the count. Queerest of the lot
perhaps occurred in a London theatre. A
comedian was swinging a club during a song
when the head came'off and struck a boy in
the dress-circle on the head. The youth
went to hospital for repairs.
* * * *
“Iltion” : The Tasmanian professional
golf championship was played off at Hobart
last week and won by A. W. Robertson, of
Kingston Beach club, who beat J. Luttrell,
of Claremont, in the 30 holes final by the
thumping margin of 11 up and 10 to play.
Tassy golf is as full of Robertsons as a
pudding is full of plums. There were three
—all related —in this tourney. One of them.
Jock Robertson, won the Tasmanian title
last year and also took the Australian pro-
fessional championship in 1930.
Miscellaneous
“Fitzcray” : Melbourne has a passion for
holding “world’s championships” for spiked-
shoe merchants, though the only folk out-
side Australia who compete in them are
occasional stray Maorilanders. For some years
past Melbourne Motordrome has been stag-
ing sprint events for the high-sounding titles,
and these will now be supplemented by a
half-mile and mile championship—like the
sprints, entirely professional affairs. They
will form part of an athletic tourney begin-
ning on September 22. Paavo Nurmi and
Jules Ladoumergue have been invited to
compete. Jules is now fairly on the pro-
fessional outer, and Paavo, who has accom-
panied the Finnish team to Los Angeles, has
now been declared a pro.
* * * *
The report of the N.S.W. Cricket Associa-
tion tendered at the annual meeting showed
a deficit of £103.1 for the year ended June 30,
as against a surplus of £192 for the pre-
vious year. In 1930-31, however*, the actual
loss was over £4OOO, as £4400' had been
received as the Ma State’s share of the Aus-
tralian XI profits. The South African tour
resulted in a loss, the net proceeds, includ
ing the solitary Test in Sydney, being only
£2038. One interesting item was the infor-
mation that the Sydney Cricket Ground
authorities will in future allow new members
one lady’s ticket only instead of two. The
members are now too many for the stands
and some sort of limitation had to be made.
Trafficking in membership tickets was also
referred to, and there can be no doubt of
this, as anyone noting the abundance _of
strange faces in the smokers’ stand during
the Rugby League football matches with
England can testify.
si! * #
“Shell”: Details of the race for the
world’s professional sculling championship,
which will be rowed over the. Olympic
course in California, show an important
departure from the practice which has pre-
vailed since the title was first competed
for half a century ago. The Olympic
course is onlv a mile and a half long, so,
instead of having a straight spin for three
miles, as has always been the custom, the
contestants will have to turn a mark at
the end of a mile and a half and return to
the starting line. Ex-Australian Major Good-
sell and Ted Phelps, of England, will be
the - rivals. Goodsell lost the title to young
Barry, of England, at Vancouver some
years ago, and Barry went down to Phelps
after his return to the Thames.
* * * *
“Blade”: In spite of the bad times, the
N.S.W. Rowing Association came through
last season with flying colors, the balance-
sheet showing a surplus of £l3O on the year's
workings. Newington Old Boys’ club has
been added to the list. Old Boy rowing
clubs, very successful in other States, are
unknown in N.S.W. and it is to be hoped
that others will follow the Newingtonian load.
Special reference was made to the fine per-
formances of sculler H*. Turner, who, in his
first year of outrigger rowing, carried off the
State and Australian sculling championships,
a feat only previously performed by Bobby
Pearce.


K is
-ymz
w
Even more luxurious even more charming Sydney’s
“Australia,” brilliantly redecorated in the modern manner.
NEW REDUCED TARIFF—ROOM-ONLY RATES:
Reduced Costs are reflected by a Reduced Tariff—but Quality and Service are
maintained at the same world-famous “Australia” standard.
A Single Room is to be had for 10/6 per day, with a Double Room costing only 20/-
per day. Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
Breakfast, 2/- and 3/-, and ala carte. Luncheon and Dinner, a la carte. Minimum 4/-.
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, 2/-.
‘....after all, there’s only one ‘Australia.’”
Thc /Australia Hotcl
■ The Hotel
r of the
Commonwealth,
SYDNEY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
The wattle-trees have been flaunting their
gold for weeks before their official coniing-
out. This was fixed for last Monday, but
the pretty creatures have been already flut-
tering their finery along many a bush track
and in hundreds of suburban gardens. Tra-
vellers along the North Shore line roads
had scarcely stifled their exclamations over
the winter gold of the jacaranda before they
were uttering the long ah! of admiration
over the yeliow wattle. The schools had
their celebration of Arbor Day last Friday,
and hundreds of our flowering gums, silky-
oaks, Christmas bush, and kurrajongs were
planted in school gardens all over the State.
The southern pylons of the bridge were
honored with a special tree-planting on Mon-
day afternoon at three o’clock. On the first
of August in future years they will wear
their badge of nationhood as proudly as any
other citizen.
There’s a young radiance and a fine ruf-
fling spirit in Syd Long’s little canvas of
Narrabeen that’s an antidote to any blues,
though, truth to tell, the artist’s “Fishing
Boats at Lisbon” and “Bruges B lfry”
attracted a greater crowd at . Saturday’s
opening of the Royal Art Society’s show.
Veteran Lister Lister’s outsize in Middle Har-
bors has a lounge placed before it, and on
this Mrs. Lister held a little court. Hard
by Aubrey Halloran (who was one of the
first buyers whom Charlie Bryant, Wolinski
and James Jackson knew) enthused about
Wolinski’s progress, while Mrs. E. Wun-
derlich a nd Dora Wilcox in company with'
scores of others counted heads in. Normand
Baker’s “Morning in the Markets.” It was
quite an absorbing game. If you were poor
at addition you only got 18 by the. time your
companion was muttering something in the
twenties. Anyway, whatever their number,
they all now belong to the people, as the
National Gallery bought the lot, which Nor-
mand had priced holus-bolus at 125 guineas.
The young man’s teacher, J. S. Watkins, was
walking about as pleased at his prodigy’s
success as at the compliments from the
friends of the sitters for the various por-
traits from his own brush. Dora Toovey, Laura
Booth, Hilda Dreyer and Pearl Sheldon were
responsible for some hold-ups in the traffic;
Alfred Coffey was down from Wyong for the
occasion, and the Garlings had a word with
artist Salvana and D. 11. Souter and two
of the latter’s brown-eyed daughters. Mrs.
Norman Lowe and Howard Hinton were
others who drained a dish of tea to the
furtherance of art.
Dr. Ernest Jones, the youngest of a quar-
tette of bachelor brothers, is back in Sydney
after nearly two years’ research work in
England. Dr. Ernest is a brother of Mrs.
Charles Lloyd Jones, and the clan has been
getting together at all sorts of parties to hear
intimate bits about Snowdon (the mountain
not the politician), Lloyd George and other
heroes of Wales. But the just-returned is
very tight-mouthed about his experiences in
the Middlesex Hospital, where he worked in
conjunction with Professor Dodds, whose
opinion was sought during the King’s ill-
ness.
“The Lilies of the Field,” one of those
comedies that depend for their effects largely
on intonation and a sly humor, was staged
by the Pickwick Theatre Group last week,
but in fairly long stretches was as inspirit-
ing as a long, dank lily leaf. .The Savoy
held professional as well as social entities ;
Dot Brunton (Mrs. Ben Dawson) and
Marie Bremner were reserved in the matter
of seats but unreserved in their applause.
Anne Gordon and Norah Cazabon were the
lilies about which the plot blooms; Mrs. Caza-
bon was cast as the mother of the pair. Anne
Gordon wore two of the sweetly feminine
dresses of _the Victorian era—all sloping
shoulders and crinoline. Rose-pink taffetas
and white lace frills clothed her last-act
eriti and former Justice Alexander Gordon,
sitting in the front row, could be seen, in
company with the rest of the audience,
summing up in his daughter’s favor. Not that
the other fledglings weren’t attractive, but
from the pictorial side modern raiment isn’t
in it with .that which clothed Vicky and her
Court ladies.
Margaret Fairfax, the Wilfred Fairfaxes’
little daughter, who with her pretty coloring
is reminiscent of a Dresden china figurine,
went off with her mother early this year to
visit the Queen, also George Rex. But on
trie voyage Margaret did something even
more important from her point of view. She
fell in love with Peter Moore, a young
planter, who joined the boat at Ceylon. The
two were married last week in London at
the Trinity Church in Brompton-road. To
celebrate the event Miss Mary Fairfax in-
vited intimate friends of the family to drink
the health of the bride and ’groom at her
home, Ginaghulla, on Bellevue Hill. The
party didn’t run to fizz but there was a
wedding-cake with the cocktails. There were
Lambs (Mrs. Wilfred was a Lamb) and
Fairfaxes and Anne Gordon (one of Mar-
garet’s friends since babyhood) at the party;
Dangars, too, and other solid citizens. The
debonair Captain Feakes proposed “Miss
Fairfax” and all the company, including the
captain’s graceful wife, drank it with fervor.
While Charles Lloyd Jones was busy open-
ing the Radio Exhibition in Adelaide, Mr 3.
C. L. somewhere else in the studio was get-
ting snatches of Szigeti’s speech to the Musi-
cal Association. It was a very good speech
in faultless English, and the violinist’s
height made it the more impressive. He
and new president Lindley Evans and Moore
McMahon overtopped most of the males
present, and as they stood together some-
body remarked they looked like the Three
Musketeers. It was Lindley’s coming-out
party as president, and Mrs. Lindley smiled
pridefully on his words and works over the
high collar of her fur coat. Pianist Frank
Hutchens was there, raising his drooping
head under the gentle rain of congratula-
tion on his “Toccata,” which Moiseiwitsch
(most generous of visiting artists to Aus-
tralia’s composers) had not only introduced
to Sydney, but had repeated on the previous
night.
Anne Jenkins, who helps G. de Cairos
Rego to steer these musical chairs and
cheers, wore wave-green moires in contrast
to the polished walnut of the Forum Club’s
dining-room. This was just comfortably
filled with the roll-up—about 300.
Fair-haired Natalie, only daughter of the
W. J. Fields, of Roseville, and John King
Lethbridge last week pledged themselves to
matrimony at a date as yet undecided.
Natalie’s father was formerly manager of the
Bank of New South Wales at Cootamundra
and Penrith; and John King Lethbridge
traces back his lineage to Governor King,
whose descendants are even as the sands for
multitude. He planted most of his large
family in New South Wales. This brancli of
the Lethbridge family is rooted in the land
near Penrith, their particular bit of the
earth being called Tregeare.
The girl with the direct gaze is Saidie,
one of the daughters of Harry Budge, official
secretary at
G o v e r nment
House. There
is something
in being popu-
lar, for Saidie
has already
had requests
for almost 209
tickets for the
ball she is
arranging in
aid of the
Bush Nursing
Assoc iation.
The tickets
are priced at
the old optim-
istic guinea,
there are
to be no dead-
heads, and the
costs of music
and refresh-
ments are
being met by friends. The ballroom at
Government House will be the scene of
revelry, a good curtain-raiser to the fair in
Government House grounds for the benefit
of the B.N.A.
The Reggie Staffords, of Llangollen, up
Cassillis way, are plunged into mourning by
the death of Reggie’s father, A. R. Stafford,
of Dobikin, Bellata. Only within recent
months had ill health touched the hardy
countryman, who was 75 when he died. The
homestead at Dobikin has many examples of
Australian art on its walls, for Mrs. Staf-
ford, like her son Dr. Leslie Stafford, is an
art enthusiast. The stations of Dobikin,
Burren Burren, Munva, Harparary and
Llangollen are among the properties of the
Stafford family.
A flapper friend of this Letter’s whispered
in a disappointed way when Szigeti made liis
unsmiling bow to his first Sydney audience:
“Oh, I don’t think he’ll break many girlish
hearts —he looks so Olympian.” But
thunders of applause greeted his Bach
Sonata, and the audience thrilled to
the sparkling warmth of the Mozart work.
Prince Nikita Magaloff, who serves the per-
fect piano accompaniments, is so slim a
young Russian that you wouldn’t be sur-
prised if he turned before your eyes into
a pierrot in some fantastic moonlit garden.
The Governor and Lady Game were among
the applauders and with them they brought
Saidie Budge. Admiral Dalglish was among
the front-rankers, as were pianist Moisei-
witsch and his dark-haired wife. One of the
night’s best-lookers was Mrs. Tom Rolin, in
white moire and a short coat in black velvet.
What a subject for a Galsworthy saga is
contained in the law firm of Allen, Alien and
Hemsley! Last week it celebrated its 110th
birthday, and it has been served by no fewer
than four generations of Allens. In 1822,
George Allen, of Toxteth Park, was admitted
as a solicitor of the Supreme Court of
N. S. Wales by Judge Advocate Wylde and
Justice Barron Field. Matrimony has
linked the family up with Lambs and
Dan gars. The present head of the firm,
Arthur Allen, is a grandson of the founder
(his father was George Wigram Allen), and
Arthur’s Son Denis and his nephew Dundas
are junior partners. The “Wales” and the
Australian Gas Light Co. have been clients
for 90 years.
Like her predecessor. Mrs. Teppema, the
wife of Consul-
General for the
Netherlands
Staal is an
e n t h u siastic
worker for the
I n ternatioual
B a 11 , the
yearly money-
raiser for the
League of
Nations Union.
Mrs. Staal is
a notably
smart f rocker
in Sydney’s
Consular sets,
and has a de-
cided talent
for art, so no
doubt Bel-
gium’s Con-
sul - General
Segaert will
enlist her help
in the pageant he is hatching for the ball.
Photo, from Dorothy Welding’s studio.
What is all this talk about the modern
flapper absorbing alcohol even as the sponge
laps up the bath water? At two big parties
of last week this Letter particularly noticed
the small quantity of liquor on many tables
surrounded by numerically strong parties. Of
this the girls drank none at all —The only
fizz they got was the fizz out of the ginger-
pop. Smoking, too, seems on the decline
with the Bright Young Thing. Perhaps the
ultra femininity of our clothes has some-
thing to do with it, or it may be the more
general knowledge of what indulgence in the
genial gin sling and nicotine can do to the
kidneys and the arteries. It can’t always
be a matter of cash, because on many of
the tables of the affluent at the R.S.P.C.A.
Ball the bottle that intoxicates w'as sparingly
displayed. The ball was at its old rendez-
vous, the Wentworth, and owls and kooka-
burras, horses (including Samoa, one of
the Fire Brigade veterans, now one of the
star boarders at the Horses’ Home) and
dogs decked the walls, and smiled or jeered
according to their nature at their human
friends having a good night’s outing in the
name of kindness to them. Mrs. Warwick
Fairfax was the president of this ball, and was
quite a thrill in a pink organdie frock made
with tiny epaulette sleeves, and a toe-length
skirt that ruffled into two tiny frills at the
hem. The matching velvet coat, scarcely to
the waist, with its balloon sleeves of organ-
die banded in velvet set every woman mak-
ing a mental note. With her came husband
Warwick, one of the most interesting men
in Sydney (there are, according to rumor,
nearly one million pounds’ worth of reasons
to make him interesting to mere toilers in
the city). Mrs. Prendcrgast was there with
her colonel from India. Ermine seemed the
right finish to Mrs. Feakes’s black laces and
air of serenity. Anne Gordon’s frock was
voted one of the prettiest present; Mayoress
Walder, who came with the civic chief, wore
silver lame; Mrs. Brigham’s black chiffons
bloomed magnificently with pink roses; and
one of the smartest black-and-white frocks
was worn by good-looking Mrs. R. Cook.
The G. 0. Allen who is coming to Aus-
tralia with Jardine’s team is a Sydneyite
on both sides. His father, Walter Allen,
is Arthur Allen’s youngest brother. He
married Pearl Lamb, a sister of Mrs. R. J.
Browning, whose son Humphrey practises
law at Bathurst. The Walter Allens settled
in England a quarter of a century ago, and
sent the future international cricketer to
Eton, where he got into the XI, as he did
later at Cambridge. He was a protege of
“Plum” Warner, who is one of his parents’
oldest friends. Walter Allen got a knight-
hood for his work as a special constable
during the war.
Two links with our past snapped recently
with the death of Miss Maggie Hall and Miss
Emily Hume Barbour. In the ’eighties Miss
Hall was a member of the Political Labor
League, in which the Australian Labor party
had its genesis. In those early days her
mother’s house in Hunter-street was a meet-
ing place for friends of Labor; one visitor
there was Ramsay MacDonald, now Prime
Minister of Britain. Miss Ilume Barbour
was a descendant of the explorer, and was
one of the stalwarts of the Australian His-
torical Society. To it she presented many
possessions with pioneer associations, and
one of its yearly prizes was the Hume Bar-
bour trophy.
One of the talked-of engagements is that
of Barbara White, daughter of the Harold
Whites, of Martindale, Denman, to Doug
Munro, of polo fame. Barbara’s mother was
a Sly, so there’s great ; excitement among
that legal and medical family.
The most romance-surrounded traveller on
the Nieuw Zeeland’s present trip to the
North is Dorothy King, of Woollahra. She
goes to marry Jimmy Sandes in Singapore,
and she takes with her a white organdie
wedding frock and the wedding cake. Epo.
where Jimmy is engineer-in-charge of five
goldmines, will be the Sydney girl’s next
address.
Knight Owen Cox, who died a few, days
ago in France, was known to Sydney as an
entertainer of the most lavish order. During
the war his fame as a shipping power became
widespread. He was a Welshman, and
lived his early life in Maoriland, where lie
married a Miss Hardy-Johnston. His daugh-
ter married some years ago and lives in Eng-
land.
There isn’t a more popular professional
woman in Sydney than Dr. Constance
D’Arcy. You’d never think to see her all
smiles to your face at a party that she’d
give the direct cut to your appendix or any
other part of your anatomy that behaved
in a manner unpleasant to her. This Letter
couldn’t help thinking these thoughts when
it looked in at the University women gradu-
ates’ rally the other day. Dr. Constance and
Gladys Marks were hostesses, and voiced
good wishes to the guests of honor, four of
whom are going overseas to continue their
studies, while Dr. Gertrude Grogan departs
for Melbourne to become a resident staff
doctor at the Queen Victoria Memorial Hos-
pital. Thelma Reynolds and Enid Car
penter, both with travelling scholarships in
their handbags, the one for science, the other
for physiology; Kate Ogilvie, of the Rachel
Forster Hospital, who is to look into'the
ways of doing things at St. Thomas’s in
London, and Eileen Fitzpatrick, who goes
to America in pursuit of social-service
methods, were in the group presented with
posies and told what jolly good fellows they
were.
Brisbane brevities:—
The Governor, his wife and daughter went to the
City Hall to hear the Austral Choir in “The Crea-
tion,” which celebrated the bi-centenary of Haydn,
The Mayor and Mayoress, the president of the Society
and Mrs. J. C. Overell, Mrs. E. R. B. Jordan, Dr.
E. W. and Mrs. Fowles were among those who
received the vice-regal party. Mrs. Gilbert Wilson,
the M. L. Readings, Eric Hayhe and Gregory Ivanoff
were in the official enclosure.
At the Q.T.C. races Mrs. Isaac Moore wore black
and white; Mrs. M, Ryan was in nut-brown; Mrs.
C. W. Campbell was in grey; Nell Cole chose wine
color; Mrs. Roger Hartigan favored ocean blue 'with
a batik design in white and red ; Marion dapperton
(Tarong) wore bottle-green; Mrs. Neill O’Sullivan
was in brown with a posy of yellow jonquils.
Lady Wilson was guest of the Queensland Division
of the Red Cross in the Mayoress’s reception-room.
Lady Wilson wore black and her daughter was in
cigar brown and fox furs.
Dr. Leslie Gibson, of Kedron, has gone into life
partnership with Edith Eastwood, of Liverpool,
England. W. J. Strachan gave the bride away;
she wore pale pink satin beauts, with pink net veil
and orange blossoms. Dr. Margaret Mills ’maided
in gold velvet and gold tissue helmet; Dr. Fryberg
best-manned. Rowe’s banqueting hall saw the feast-
ing, Mrs. Strachan receiving in black ring velvet.
Mrs. Edward Cahill, widow of the late E. Cahill,
one of Beenleigh’s pioneers, and mother of the well-
known pianist, died at her home at Beenleigh after
a long illness. Eddie Cahill’s first thought was
always of his mother and he liked to see her in the
front seat at his recitals.
Marjorie Wilson, wearing leaf-green Chantilly and
autumn-tinted painted chiffon, went to the dance in
the Carlton cabaret given by the New England Old
Girls’ Association. Molly Storey and Bertie Donald-
son were in black velvet.
Ella and Pat O’Shea had a supper after “The
Barretts of Wimpole Street.” Red roses decked the
Eastern lounge at Lennon’s, and the guests were
Margaret Rawlings and her husband, Mr. and Mrs.
P. M. Forrest and daughter Nancy, Cyris McColm,
Lieth Graham, Colonel Worthington Wilmer, H.
Eustace and Bobby Helpman.
The Governor went to Vincent Sheldon’s exhibi-
tion of etchings in the Gainsborough Gallery. He
mentioned that his predecessor, Sir John Goodwin,
had told him about Vincent’s work.
The seventh annual dance in aid of the appeal for
the Villa Maria was held in the Trocadero and
attended by the Governor, Lady Wilson and daughter
Marjorie. Her Ex. wore amethyst chiffon velvet;
Miss Wilson was in geranium floral mariette. In a
flag-draped alcove they were received by the Premier
and Mrs. Forgan Smith, the latter wearing apricot
mariette.


END RHEUMATISM
AND BACKACHE
By Driving Out the Cause!
Harrison’s Pills immediately attack Rheumatic.
Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Aches and Pains
by eliminating the cause. Every man and
woman knows that the blood decides health,
strength, looks and length of life. If the
blood is poisoned with uric acid, it naturally
means that hack pains, rheumatism, swollen
joints, stiff muscles, inflammation and urinary
irritation follow. Neglect may lead to serious
kidney, bladder and even heart trouble.
Consider these facts carefully. Get a package
of Harrison’s Pills to-day and take as directed.
You will be amazed at the difference in your
health, looks and general bearing. Thousands
of one-time sufferers praise the merits of
Harrison’s Pills, many saying that this
remedy has given them the relief long sought,
where all else had failed. Your chemist or
store sells Harrison’s Pills in three sizes: 18
pills, 2/-; 32 pills, 3/-; 68 pills, 5/-. Genuine
worth-while benefit from the very first bottle,
or money back guaranteed.
If You Want Queensland Trade,
You Must Advertise in
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
This great Queensland daily, and its
companion journal, the “Sunday
Mail,” give a second-to-none
“cover” in the metropolitan area and
in country districts. Their popu-
larity is explained by their brightness
and the all-round excellence of their
news features. The strong circulation
position of both papers is revealed by
recently issued independently verified
audited certificates. Rate cards, etc.,
from
Robert Jackson,
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(’Phone: 81522.)
“EOTHEN”
128 Eaat Terrace
M
332 Wakefield St-
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
GARAGE
jfnelusive Tariff, £4-4-0
Central 528
Mrs. PARKER
w
PAYING GUESTS
'■JTHE words of the daily newspaper live only
for a day. The wisdom in one issue is
too often cancelled by the folly in the next;
and, unhappily, folly is remembered far longer
than wisdom —probably because mankind are
mostly fools. The reason that some newspapers
live when others die is that on the average
the survivors are less foolish than the defunct
were.
“THE BARRIER MINER” must be in the
less foolish class, seeing that it has been
published two or three times a day for the
past 44 years at famous Broken Hill.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Position Wanted.
TV/lANAGEIi, working, for estate, large
ivl gar( j clli orchard, exp. man, highly
recommended: now or later, very reasonable.
Reply 242 this office.
Amusements.
1. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
Williamson Imperial Grand Opera Co.
KING’S THEATRE :
DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE and her English Co. In
Captain Brassbound’s Conversion.
NEXT OF KIN WANTED.
IN the Estate of JOSEPH WALTER
* MOORE, late of Montrose, Retired
Orchardist, Deceased, will George, Thomas,
Emily or Eliza Moore, children of the late
Isaac Moore, or their children, communi-
cate at once with Philip R. Fraser, Solicitor,
Yarra Street, Geelong.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
For the Moonee Valley races on Saturday
the weather promised fine in the morningf
hut the afternoou was spoilt by a deluge
of rain. There was a big crowd, hut it
there was any fine dressing it was hidden
from view under topcoats and furs.
“Drink, Puppy, Drink,” “John Peel” and
other hunting ditties floated through Men-
zies’ towards midnight on Saturday, the
occasion being a dance given by the Oak-
lands Hunt Club for charity. Many mem-
bers of kindred clubs were there, and the
spacious white dining-room during supper
was made picturesque with the pink coats
of the huntsmen and the pretty gowns ot
their fair partners. The banquet-room and
part of the lounge were decked with feathery
bamboo, and daffodils and other spring
flowers were liberally used. Secretaries or
the organising committee were Molly
McAuley, who danced in fisher-net of lime
hue, quaintly tucked, and Mary Sewell,
whose black georgette frock was topped with
a little orange velvet cape. The Oaklands
M.F.H., E. C. Robertson, was there with M rs.
Robertson, who wore hurgundy-hued georg-
ette and lace, Mr. and Mrs. A. T. Robert-
son being of tlieir party. Deputy-Master 'V.
11. Magennis came with Mrs. Magennis, who
mingled black lace and chiffon in her attire.
Mrs. Ross Grey Smith, in parchment-
tinted satin; Mrs. William Seymour, in
black chiffon; Doris Foster, in moss-green
velvet, and Airs. Douglas Faulkner, in pale-
pink, wei*e among the club members present.
The Alelbourne H.iC. was represented by its
M.F.H., C. C. Moore, and Airs. Moore, the
lady’s gown being chiffon, patterned in green
and russet and traced here and there with
crystal beads. General Johnston and his
daughter, Airs. K. Moore, whose lovely frock
was of the palest yellow satin, were also
among the Melbourne H.C. members present.
Patricia Clarke and Sandra Shackell were
two smart-looking wearers of black chiffon.
Among those who sported the dark green
of the Findon H.C. were the Master, J. L.
Byrne, who was accompanied by his wife;
the hon. sec., R. AI. Cntlibertson, Airs. Cuth-
bertson, whose robe was metal grey and
gold lame, and their son Alan. Mrs. Derek
Mollison introduced the latest thing in
cotton evening gowns—a white pique frock
with corsage outlined with white muslin
roses.
Bea Kimpton’s dance was held at No. 9,
where early-flowering fruit blossoms made
effective decoration. Airs. A. E. Kimpton
staged the party for her daughter and re-
ceived the guests in a gown that gleamed
oxidised gold lace and satin, with a shoulder
spray of green and brown orchids. Bea had
real lilies-of-thc-valley as a set-off for her
draperies of lobelia-blue chiffon. Mrs.
Aubrey Gibson, the Ivimptons’ elder daughter,
wore a • clinging gown of silver lame gar-
nished with slipper orchids. The David
Symes were there, she in black velvet. Maisie
Cowper danced in lime-green draperies, and
Penelope Stead sported a satin robe of vellum
tone. Mr. and Mrs. B. Colclough were
among the few married folk present.
The Old Girls’ Association of St. Mar-
garet’s had its dance at Stonnington. Miss
I). Gipson, the principal who is also presi-
dent of the 0.G.A., permitted the use of the
erstwhile Government House, now part of
St. Alargaret’s, and was present wearing a
black gown with some diamente embellish-
ment.
The Chamber Music Club wound up its
season with a party at the Victoria, engin-
eered by the president, Mrs. W. Mortill, the
hon. sec., Doris Moore, Mrs. R. A. Broinow-
ski and others. Bridge players were en-
sconced in the Tudor lounge, and there was
dancing in the banquet hall. Mrs. Mortill’s
opal-green frock was fashioned with a
pleated cape; and Miss Moore wore georg-
ette of wine-color. Airs. 11. L. Wilkinson’s
chiffon was patterned in tones of yellow.
Shirley Twcddle was in pink and her sister
Betty in black georgette. The Best lady, a
vice-president, was robed in black velvet.
Mr. Mortill, Mr. and Mrs. Esmond L.
Kiernan, Mrs. Fleming Dunstan and Ivy
Ball were there,
Betty Wilkinson, who is to marry Major
Edric Henty, is a daughter of Mrs. Robert
S. Helby, of South Yarra. and lately of
Adelaide. On Saturday evening Mrs. H’elby
staged a dance as tribute to three brides-
maids who have conic from other States to
officiate —Madeline Mackay Sim, of Sydney,
and Betty Henderson and Nan Gosse, ot
Adelaide.
The Dental Students’ Society held their
hop in Ormond Hall. Honored guests were
Prof. C. Wilkinson, Dean of the Faculty of
Dentistry, and Mrs. Wilkinson, whose gown
was garnet-red velvet; also Dr. W. Young
and Miss Young. Dr. and Mrs. Tuckfield
were in the throng of dancers; also Yvonne
Iveon-Cohen, who had a scarlet velvet cape
upon her white georgette frock.
At the Old Paradians’ dance, held at St.
Kilda Town Hall, there were over $OO
dancers. The college colors were trailed
about festoons of lights and were featured in
the posies carried by 28 white-clad debu-
tantes. These girls and their partners made
bow to the president, C. M. S. Power, who
had his sister, Mrs. E. M. Hassett, of Leon-
gatha, to support him, after which the fledg-
lings and their partners danced the lancers.
Mrs. Hassett’s black satin gown was topped
with a white fur coat and she carried a
presentation posy. Airs. J. A. Gorman, who
wore parchment-colored satin, coached the
debs., and also received a bouquet.
Some 70 or more women who have been
associated with Mrs. T. J. Ryan in her work
for charities met about the tea-tables at Alen-
zies’ to say goodbye-to her and her daughter
Jill on their departure from Melbourne. Orga-
nisers of the meeting were Mrs. J. J. Daly and
Mrs. J. P. Casey. Besides a bouquet of lovely
pink roses, the guest was given a gold scapu-
lar medal. Mrs. T. Davis presented a hand-
bag from the Mother Provincial of the
Sisters of St. Joseph in appreciation of the
aid Mrs. Ryan had given St. Anthony’s
Home. A number of Jill’s former school-
mates of Mandeville Hall joined in the leave-
taking and Mrs. Daly on their behalf
handed Jill a bridge set. Mrs. Ryan, whoso
black suit was brightened with a black-and-
white-spotted scarf, topped by a straw hat
of the new sailor shape, said thanks for
herself and her daughter.
At Cliveden Mansions a farewell brew
of tea was poured by Mrs. W. Winter Irv-
ing and her daughters Mary and June in
honor of Mrs. Grantham on the eve of that
lady’s departure for London. Phyllis Mary
Dunne also had a hand shaken in farewell.
In the throng were Mrs. Keith Tolhurst, a
daughter of the hostess, Rear-Admiral and
Mrs. Hyde, Mrs. Norman Brookes, Mrs.
Charlie Lyon and her daughter Barbai’a and
Mrs. H. Bullivant.
Dame Sybil Thorndike, wearing brown
cloth skirt and ha't and sports coat of prim-
rose hue, took afternoon tea with the mem-
bers of the Women Citizens’ Movement.
Mrs. Britomarte James welcomed the
actress, abetted by Mrs. Warren Kerr, and
presented Dame Thorndike with a bit. of
bark-covered log filled with wattle. An inter-
lude was provided by Beatrice Tiernan, who
recited the works of Australian and Eng-
lish poets.
The dark-eyed maiden pictured here by
Ruskin is Audrey Anderson, a Melbourne
mezzo-soprano, who had her first training at
the Albert-
street Con. A
scholarship
took her to
the Uni. Con.
and under Mr.
and Mrs. Les-
lie Middleton’s
direction she
has developed
into a drama-
tic soprano.
At the Fry
Society Com-
petitions Miss
Anderson won
first honors in
the operatic
aria section,
singing
“Ritorna Vin-
citor” from
“Aida.” She
has won many
prizes at
South-street and similar competitions as an
elocutionist and entertainer.
Mrs. Chris Cowper, who has taken the
Sam McKays’ house in Toorak-road for the
winter, gave a bridge party for the Women’s
Hospital. Her daughters Beryl and Maisie
assisted their mother in entertaining, and
Mrs. Crealock Price, a married daughter,
took on the duties of treasurer. Marie de
Bavay sold silk hose and handkerchiefs to
help the cause.
There was an afternoon of bridge and
music at Myer’s, in the interests of the
Broadmeadows Home. Many of the patrons
came with parcels of woolly garments for
the kiddies. Chief amoug the organisers
were Mrs. J. C. Westhoven, who was there
in a pale grey ensemble; Mrs. Esmond
Downey, who wore navy blue; Mamie Welsh-
man, hon. see., and Mrs. P. J. McCauley,
hon. treas. Mrs. C. N. Finn (Dolly Castles)
arranged a musical programme, which was
contributed to by Eileen Castles, Jean Lewis,
Violet Collinson, Kelvin Plant, Hermia
Barton and Bonnie Barrett.
The Lawford lady, who has taken the 11.
S. Gulletts’ Toorak house for a term, gave
a cocktail party on Saturday afternoon. The
hostess wore flowered chiffon draperies and
a largish hat. Her son, James Watt, lenc
a hand in entertaining.
Lieutenant-Governor Irvine and his lady
attended the Bach Festival concert at ihe
Town Hall, and knight Harrison Moore, Mr.
and Mrs. Arthur Hordern, knight William
Brunton, the Bernard Heinzes, Mrs. Twcddle
and Betty T. Brentnall and Mrs. Edward
Stevens were in the audience.
On Lina Paliugl-ii’s first appearance in
“The Barber of Seville” she was struggling
with a bit of knitting that appeared to he
on O.S. needles. Her ample form was
garbed in poppy-red silk spread over with
filmy black lace, and a couple of red roses
nestled against the tall comb in her piled-
up dark hair. In another scene she wore
apricot taffeta fashioned with tiered flounces
and garnished with gold lace and a sprink-
ling of diamente. A white lace mantilla was
assumed for the bridal scene. The d.-c. and
r.-s. bloomed with black velvet wraps with
white collars and short white rabbit coats.
Here is a recent picture* by Brootliorn of
Mrs. Maie Hoban, who is establishing herself
as a teacher
of verse-speak-
ing, a lecturer
and a producer
of plays. Prior
to ber mar-
riage she was
well known
in musical
an d amateu r
theatrical
circles, a u d
on the death
of her hus-
band, Lie u-
tenant D. .J.
Hoban, sli o
took up this
line of activity
as a profes-
sio n. Mr s.
H'oban’s elo-
cution pupils
were very suc-
cessful at the
ration pupils were very successful at the
recent Trinity College examinations.
Eva, elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs. 11. J.
Silverman, of North Fitzroy, has just finished
serving her articles with a legal firm, and
proposes to hang out a brass-plate in Chan-
cery House as a barrister and solicitor. She
is a violinist of great promise, and makes
good use of her talents in the cause of charity.
From the Apple Isle: —
A young Tasmanian, making good overseas is Archie
McDougald, second son of Prof. D. G. McDougald,
Tag. University. Archie was our 1924 Rhodes scholar
and won the Rockefeller Foundation Scholarship at
Balliol College in 1927. This admitted him for'
two years to Columbia Uni. After that he won a
Harms-worth law scholarship and was called to the
Bar at the Middle Temple last June.
A recent marriage of interest to Tasmanians was
that of Josephine Wilks (Launceston) and the Rev.
Philip Lee, at Croydon, England. The bride was
one of the northern capital’s most popular girls.
She wore heavy ivory satin, very plainly cut, and
a Brussels lace veil, an heirloom in the family.
Josephine Woods and Joyce Walker (the latter a
Hobart girl), ’maided in frocks of pink and green
respectively, with picture hats of straw in toning
shades. The Bishop of Croydon tied the knot,
helped by the Rev. C. Rawlins and Canon Finnis,
an old Tasmanian.
The Ross Golf Club ran a very cheery dance in
aid of its funds at the Town Hall, where the main
room was gay with flags, japonica, violets and holly.
Supper was served in the hotel dining-room across
the street. P. A. Brown did the secretarial job,
and guests came from all round the district.
King’s Meadows golf clubhouse lounge was
decorated with great jars of holly and warmed by
huge fires for the dance in aid of the tennis club,
run by Mrs. T. Humphreys, J. B. White and H. S.
Gray. Nearly everyone danced in the smart little
coats of velvet or some other warm stuff over
their frail chiffons.
The Tas. University Dramatic Club ran a per-
formance of “The Middle Watch” at the Theatre
Royal, under the direction of Iff.-Col. Thomas.
Students who took paid; were Mollie Greenwood,
Margaret Fuller, E. Ockenden, Joan Clemes, Madge
Bland, Norman Westbrook, H. Lewis, Joe * Dixon,
K. M. Archer, 11. Nicholls, W. F. Wells, E. 11.
Harry, C. F. Davies and J. T, Stops. The fun was
excellent and the settings good. The Lieut.-Gov.
and his lady patronised the second night’s produc-
tion. .
Gertie Atkins and Jean Tinning are off for a
trip to Hong Kong in the Asuta Maru. They have
been extensively tea-ed and bridged by their friends.
Sybil Lyons is another Hobart girl who is off lo
warmer climes. She joins the Grimwades in Mel-
bourne for the Queensland coastal trip.
Hardwicke Weedon, veteran manager of the Laun-
ceston Savings Bank, was given a send off and a
presentation in the shape of an eight-day chiming
clock, from the staff, on his retirement. His term
of management has run into over 30 years.
At Adelaide: —
The University Women’s Union gave a very cheery
party in the Refectory and the Lady Symon building.
The latter is exclusively for women, but on this
occasion they were permitted to show their men
friends over the luxuriously furnished premises and
the beautiful rest-room overlooking the river. Almond
blossom massed in huge brass bowls decorated the
Refectory and African marigolds were used on the
supper tables. Mrs. Charles Duguid (president), who
received the guests, was wearing white georgette
trimmed with white fox fur. The frocking through-
out was smart and about 250 were present.
Mr. and Mrs. John Brownlee, Miss Rita Miller
and Mr. Shepherd, together with Miss Ella Shields
and Mr. Frank Neill from the Theatre Royal, were
entertained at an at-home given by the Mayoress
in her reception-room at the Town Hall. Mrs.
Glover wore a gown of amethyst faille with beige
vest and a smart little hat to match her frock.
Mrs. Brownlee, who, with her husband, helped the
mayoral couple to receive, was wearing a black
musquash coat, and a small white and black chenille
hat. Miss Ella Shields looked chic in a mink fur
coat over a wine-toned silk frock; her hat was a
close-fitting one of black chenille.
Toe H, having secured the good offices of the
Adelaide Steamship Co., will hold its annual ball
on board the Manunda at Port Adelaide on September
15. His Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven will be present.
The Good Companions gave a dinner at the Rich-
mond Hotel for John Brownlee. Artist "Kerwin Mae-
graith presided, and proceedings concluded with the
singing of “Song - of Australia” in the street at
midnight.
A bridge party at the residence of Mr. and Mrs.
F. O. Grote, Llandovery, Robe-terrace, Medindie,
substantially helped the buildings fund for the
Hackney Free Kindergarten, of which Mrs. Grote
is president. So many tables were booked that they
overflowed from the ballroom into three other rooms.
The floral decorations were lovely.
The Mayoress gave a farewell at-home in the
Town Hall to Mrs. Charles Todd and her sister-
in-law, Miss Lorna Todd, who leave shortly for
England. Mrs. Keith Pavy helped her mother to
receive. Mrs. Glover wore a black georgette toilette
with touch of gold embroidery and a wide-brimmed
black bangkok hat. Mrs Pavy chose a Lido-bl.ue
patterned satin frock, a short mink fur coat and a
small blue felt hat. Mrs. and Miss Todd both wore
smart black coats and black hats. The profusion of
almond blossom and sweet-peas was a reminder that
spring is coming.
The Ad. Ball at the Palais Royal was remarkable
for the brilliancy of the decorations, every picture
theatre having a dazzling display, and the novelty
turns.
From beside the Swan
Temple Court furnished the setting for the New-
man Ball, the profits from which were banked against
the day when the dream of a Newman college at
our uni. will be realised. Dr. Dan and Mrs. Mulcahy
were in the official cubby hole, she in oyster satin
with purple foliage at the waist line.. The joint
secretaries were Eileen Davidson, with a spray of
camellias upon her black velvet shoulder, and Joan
McKenna, in black a-twinkle with rhinestones. Mrs.
Gilbert Henderson was in pink, the skirt widened
with ’broidered godets; Mrs. Edgar Henderson was
in black; Mrs. Fred Hammond wore flowered chiffons
in sky-blue shades ; Mrs. Jim Monteath and Madame
Gelle clung to black laces; Ronnie Lake flashed
velvets of emerald sheen; Mrs. Sid O’Neill wore
blue, and her sister Mrs. Johnston was a slim
brunette in parchment lace and a cascade of frills
upon the skirt; Mrs. Theggie was in black; Margaret
Mulcahy's royal-blue gown introduced a flame-shaded
drapery and a curling frill at the back of the neck
while sister Ellen chose red angel’s skin; Norma
Slater’s Burgundy lace was decorated with satin
insertions.
The David Alstons have gone on a visit to Mel-
bourne. Profs, 'Weatherburn, Paterson and Nicholls
with their .better halves, Miss L. Hosking and Mrs.
Reg. Forsaith are among, visitors to the Science
Congress in Sydney.
Back from the Big Smoke comes Ida Geddes
with her golden voice more beautiful than ever.
For her recital in the well-filled Town Hall she
wore lilac net covered with tiny frills and blue
slippers and necklace. German songs figured upon
her delectable programme. The Ensemble Players,
Evelyn Willis, David Powell and Valdemar Robertson
gave their instrumental support, Miss Willis also
providing the accompaniments. Miss Geddes’ trip is
really a visit to her family. She has a job in the
musical branch of the Education Department in
London. By hard work and ambition she got to
England on her own savings. Until her voice
obtained recognition she tapped a typewriter, for
which her Hansard job in Perth made her particularly
efficient.
The crop of engagements following upon the
dancing season has already begun to sprout. Joan
Drummond of South Perth, has promised her hand
to Harry Calder, of Guildford. Lois Bateman, of
Cawley, is affianced to Douglas, son of Dr. and the
late Mrs, Campbell Wilson. Sara Adamson, of
Beverley, and Charles, son of the H. M. Fishers,
are another couple booked for a life partnership.
The Claremont Parish Hall was a-twinkle with
colored globules for a good-bye dance in honor of
the inter-State hockey team. Interest was added by
the announcements at intervals of the progress of
the popular girl competition, with three cheers at
midnight for the winner, Mrs. Donald Tregonning.
Mrs. Tregonning received congratulations in a floral
ninon ensemble. Mementoes were presented to candi-
dates of the other clubs, Miss Hammersley, Pippin
Reid and Betty Sudlow. Among the dancers were
Mrs. Geoff Lynn, who swung a silver cape across
the shoulders of her black gown ; Mrs. Norman Giles,
a big bow nodding upon her grass-green frock;
Mrs. Brooking in rose-pink; Jean Crommelin in
shrimp velvets; Dorothy Stranger in parchment lace
and ninon, and Betty Bolton in black satin.


MIJ&IGHM
Wa
I
mm
A
m
mm
■fc' W' 1 ? -
r t a a
<iWimw
finer
At
CONCESSION RATES
to
SUVA, FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days
First-class Return .... £33
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva
Seven Weeks’ Tour
First-class Return . ... £75-
Cabin-class Return . . . £55
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Via Wellington, N.Z.
Twenty-three Days’ Tour—
First-class Return . ... £45
Cabin-class Return .... £34
PAPEETE, TAHITI.
Via Wellington and Rarotonga—
Seven Weeks’ Tour
First-class Return .... £55
Cabin-class Return . . . £4O
(No Exchange .)
For full 'particulars apply to
UNION S. -S.--.C0., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’’ takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
MILE HIGH IN THE ROCKIES
CANADA’S MOST
BEAUTIFUL MOUNTAIN
RESORT
YOUR journey to Europe
will be far more thrilling
if you go via Banff —
social centre of Canada’s
Rockies.
Scenes of unrivalled
grandeur—a variety of
Alpine pleasures not pro-
vided anywhere else in
the world exhilarating
climate. Castle-like Banff
Springs Hotel with city
service, starting point for
new and delightful holiday
attractions. You’ll find
happy cosmopolitan
crowds at Banff.
5 m
an
ws
t e i
\
At Banff there is something
exciting in every minute of
your stay—sight-seeing—golf—
riding the circle trails —swim-
ming in a warm sheltered pool
climbing and joyous social
evenings. Write or call for illus-
trated booklets.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
World’s Greatest Travel System
TRAINS - STEAMERS - HOTELS
32/6
CANADIAN PACIFIC
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Ore Thief.
BY WILLIAM HATFIELD.
I DON’T know how he came by the name of
“Bunny” Thompson, but from the moment
I saw him it seemed to fit him and
describe his personality. Perhaps it was his
mouth, not liare-lipped by any means, but
soft and pouty, the thin, fair moustache
drooping to cover the corners and accen-
tuate the pout. And then his habit of pop-
ping in and out of the slanting mouth of the
under-lie was so rabbit-like. Copper was
£127 a ton, electrolytic, and though Bunny
didn’t know what electrolytic meant he
knew that much stuff lying at the head of
many deserted claims.was worth sorting and.
bagging, and that a great deal of “country”
left by earlier gougers following down rich
lodes was worth shooting down and hauling
to the surface. No real miner would care
to so much as cough in a claim_ Bunny had
worked, so assiduously did he rat-nibble at
portions of the workings left for security.
Yet for all that he didn’t get much ore
to the railway. The army had done that.
“Theirs not to reason why.” Under com-
mands that, brooked no argument Bunny
could have thrown his well-developed nine-
stone into real productive work, but with-
out stern direction he was almost useless
even with horses, after twelve years as an
artillery driver in India. His wife had
been able to get something done while she
stayed at the claim, but since the near-by
creek dried she had moved in to the river
eight miles away, and lived with the two
children (five and three) in a humpy of
ore-bags and kerosene-tins near the Afghan’s
Soak. She must have been attractive in an
apple-cheeked, chinless way when as a farm
lass she had married her homing soldier boy,
but the rigors of outdoor life on a thin diet
in north-west Queensland were robbing her
of what charms she might have had, and at
this time her figure was all wrong from an
impending event.
You couldn’t, help liking the pair of them,
her for her faith in his ultimate success and
Bunny for his solicitude for her, even
though that ran into an average loss of four
working days per w*eek through his pro-
tracted week-end visits “home.” I used to
drop in oil them plenty, covering all that
patch of country on my ’roo-shooting wan-
derings, and I’ve humped a turkey many a
mile out of my way just to see their faces
light up at the prospect of a banquet. Not
that you needed to come full-handed to get
a welcome at Bunny’s lonely camp or at
his wife’s place; they were genuinely de-
lighted to turn on the tea and cake for
visitors just as if they had lived in the bush
all their lives.
So you can guess I hated the talk in at
the siding, where the scattered inhabitants
gathered to meet the weekly mail train,
when it veered to dark hints at Bunny’s
knowledge of ore missing from other gougers’
consignments. Bunny might be a hopeless
potterer, but he was not a thief. I don’t
know why I should always feel bound to
champion weaklings—streak of weakness in
myself perhaps. Anyway, Big Bill Allison
1 didn’t find it the day he and I clashed over
l he question. My shooting eye was no good
for a few days, but I was still standing
when he offered his apology from the ground.
I used to do most of my stalking afoot—
you can get closer —and not smoking all day
for business reasons (scent, you know) left
me pretty sound in the wind.
Now, as you must have some idea of the
lay of the country to follow what happened,
I’il give you the main features. It was all
unfenced —even the railway snaking across
the bush was without so much as a top
wire to keep cattle off —so you could ride
any direction you liked and take any short
cut across country. The river came down
roughly from the north, and the line crossed
it going about south-west or a bit more west,
than that, and the siding was on a rise about
a mile past the crossing; go with the
Afghan’s Soak a mile down the river from
the bridge where I was camped, the three
points made a rough triangle. From that
you’ll see that if I was striking straight
home for n\y camp after a day’s shooting
down the river flats, I’d cross the track
between Bunny’s home camp and the siding;
and though it was mostly open, stony downs
there, there was a feeler of scrub running out
from a little cluster of stony knobs between
the river and the railway, so that you would
always seem to strike the road before you
expected it, no matter how often yph came
that way. You know that feeling J in half
scrub and half open country—“ Hello,, heres
the road; didn’t think I was so near home.
Arid though it was so close to humaii'habita-
tions I often got a ’roo there for iijy last
shot in the failing light, and never emptied
my rifle for the walk home till I’d thor-
oughly quested that patch of scrub.
This night I was taking a’ good look under
the low branches of the gidya at every care-
ful step, anxious not to miss a chance,
because a hard day had only bagged me five
hides, and none of them worth more than
about six bob. Rifle half-way to my shoulder,
finger on the trigger and thumb on the
hammer at half-cock ready for an. instant
shot as I brought, the sights up level, bat-
ting my eyes at the insistent flies disturbed
from their roost on the low foliage , (it was
well past half-dark and the red fast slip-
ping out of the sky over to my left and
spreading the last back-glow over the other
horizon), I sneaked forward, not a sound or
a movement of any small living thing escap-
ing me, when right ahead in a small open-
ing between trees and above a low bush I
caught the movement of a reddish-brown
patch. Ha! a big fellow, ten bob. if he was
worth the price of a cartridge. Funny, how
your mind flits around plain commercial
arithmetic while the rest of you is acting
the stone-age savage.
Not a hundred yards. I knew that half-
note was in my pocket as I snicked the
hammer back while my .32/40 came up to
the line of sight—knew it before I heard
the thump of lead going home hard on the
splitting crack that shattered the evening
quiet and put roosting birds a-wing with
frightened cries. I saw the brown patch
drop as the red tongue of flame seemed to
lick back into the muzzle, and didn’t quicken
my pace as I walked forward pumping live
shells through the breech and slipping them
into my pocket. I would just have light
enough to finish skinning, though I could
manage that in the dark.
You’ve heard of fellows’ hearts standing
still, their knees turning to water, and all
that? Well, all those things are right. They
all happened to me when I stepped into the
clear and looked at my kill. There, sprawled
across the track, limp, one leg bent, one
straight, one arm under her and one out-
stretched, lay Bunny Thompson’s wife! I
don’t know how long I gaped at that still
heap, but it couldn’t have been long, for
my fingers must have slackened their grip
at that first shock and the rifle-barrel, falling
across my toe brought me to action in a
flash.
How could I have made such an error ?
I had heard of hunters putting bullets into
people by mistake and always said they must
have been blind fools. Then for the first
time I saw the reddish-brown bag of ore
alongside her, and realised how utterly de-
ceiving its color was. Even at a distance
where I could stretch out and poke it with
my toe it was a perfect copy of the color of
a big old-man “red” from constant refilling
with oxides, the prevailing ore raised by
gougers thereabouts.
Fearfully I turned the body over to see
if there was any faint hope that the murder-
ous soft-lead bullet hadn’t done its worst.
Down to the waist seemed all right, and I
was puzzled, because it was a chest-high
shot. I hated myself every second of that
further examination, and when my hand
came away covered red
Look, you don’t mind if I skip a bit? but
although I don’t claim any knowledge of
anatomy, I’ve worked for many years among
stock, and you-—well, you learn a lot, I
looked again at that ore bag, and there was
a neat small hole fair in the centre of it.
I wriggled my finger in and pulled out a flat-
tened bullet, and heaved the biggest sigh you
ever heard torn from a man.
Back to Mrs. Thompson, then. Her
heart was beating! It was only shock, then :
she would be all right in a few minutes. I
would get her home. I’d have to carry her
all the way, because But look, I wish
I could get one of these professionals to tell
this yarn. I unslung my watorbag to give
her a drink, but I realised I would have to
use the water to wash my hands; I’d been
skinning dead animals, remember, and you
pick up enough about the need for scrupu-
lous cleanliness in such cases from scrappy
reading in medical books. Well, I put it all
down to my knowledge of cattle and horses,
though people might shudder at the compari-
son —and I soon had everything right. I
carried her home first, and made a second
trip for the youngster, wrapped in my shirt
and beefing his protest at the top of his
lungs. Then I had to walk up-river half-
way to the bridge to get Mrs. Stevenson,
tiie woodcarter’s wife, and when that was all
settled I remember the tell-tale bag of ore
lying there on the road. I think that was
what Mrs. Thompson tried to tell me when
she gripped my hand after Mrs. Stevenson
had her all snug in the rough bed and young
Thompson in tho crook of her arm,
‘‘Bill’s been so good,” she said. “We’ll
never be able to thank him. He’ll fix every-
think oop—won’t you?” "And she had sort
of turned her head towards the track and
repeated—“fix everythink oop !”
I squeezed the work-worn hand, and
nodded. I didn’t feel like saying much. I
marvelled at her having got so far with that
bag of ore when I put it up on my shoulder
—twondered how many times she must have
rested it in the low fork of a tree in the
half-mile she had covered. I remembered my
hide-bag and my rifle, put it down till I
slung those comfortably about me, and had
just picked the ore up again when two fel-
lows came from somewhere in the dark and
, said
“Here, where are you going with that?”
Before I could think of anything I just
came out with the plain truth —I’d been
pretty close to plain truths that night—and
said: “I’m taking it back to the siding.”
Big Bill Allison laughed.
“Well,” he said to the chap with him,
“are you satisfied now? Seein’s believin’,
ain’t it?”
The trooper said to me: “I reckon you
can leave it where it is and come along in
with me. Give me that rifle.”
I handed over the rifle in a daze, and he
linked the handcuffs on me before I quite
realised what was on. Wouldn’t people have
laughed over their newspapers if I'd said
just how I came to have that bag of ore on
my back out there in the bush that night?
I kept as dumb as pumpkin, said nothing
when I heard the sentence even, though it
hurt me a bit not to see Bunny even in the
court. When I |got out I heard he’d fluked
a' rich seam down at the waterline and sold
out to a company only a month or so before,
and I saw in an old paper about the trial
that the baby “which a woodcarter’s wife
had brought into the world out in the bush
without medical assistance” was a “sturdy
young Australian, thriving in the clean air
of the great open spaces.”
Of course I never went back that way.
and who’d listen to a convicted ore thief,
even if I wanted to talk?
Freedom.
“I have drunk,” he said, “at a secret spring,
I have bowed at a hidden shrine,
When the veil was lifted a little space,
And the wonder of Wisdom’s ageless face
For a moment flashed on her worshipper,
And the secret of earth is mine.
“I can walk with Poverty, undismayed
By the . touch of her fingers , chill.
In densest shadow, by night or day;
For the soul with vision can pierce the grey.
I can toss the garment of wealth aside
With an effortless ease of will.
“I know not passion nor hate nor dread.
For back in the first white years
I learned in the silence that strong desire
Gan burn with the force of a quenchless fire.
That Love is the maker of Sacrifice,
And the children of Love are Tears.
“I can thrill to the beauty of purple hills
And the morn on the misty sea ;
And never a shadow of memory brings
A cloud on the face of the perfect things,
When the heart is one with the silent stars
And the spirit is wholly free.”
N.S.W.
NELLIE A. EVAND.
The Map.
The color on the map is pink,
■ Like rose leaves o’er a maiden s lips.
But there I know the lean wolf howls,
The panther through the valley slips,
And yellow-ribboned deserts lie
Between gaunt mountains and the sky.
And where the' swelling sand dunes rise,
Round as the bosom of a girl,
The small green scorpions scurry home.
Like evil thoughts the hot winds swirl
About the heads of hunted men,
And life creeps back to death again.
The color of the map is pink.
But where the lurching camel moves
To brackish pools, the hunted men
Grow cruel in their hates and loves;
The adder spits his poison, blown
Like treachery from a slipping stone.
The color on the map is sweet
As altar candles dripping down,
Or like the little blossoms sewn
In silk upon a satin gown,
And here between the sand and sky
The camel trains go drifting by.
Not liouey-pots nor perfumed wax
They carry, but some wicker jars
For camel’s milk; a hoarded grain
They guard beneath the mocking stars.
Because strange blood feuds make them fear
The sudden voice of sword and spear,
The biting dagger in the dark,
The thieving hand upon the rein.
Though in the map this fabled land
Gives us to childhood’s dreams again
Of princes bold and brave for tight,
Or scented casements in the night;
Of splendid sheiks in robes of gold.
Circassian maids with jewelled feet,
White'Arab, steeds with arching necks
And racing camels white and fleet;
Gold dust and lapis-lazuli
That rival all the summer sky;
And bales of silks and cinnamons.
And jugs of wine and honeycomb.
The color on the map is pink,
So let us dream —and stay at hornet
Upon a roseate map to look
Before the fire with a book!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORBEST.


Ask for
ŵ
ESTABLISHED 1807,
this fine old Scots Whisky
has 120 years’ reputation for
outstanding quality. It is skil-
fully blended for mellowness
and flavour and no better
whisky can be produced.
PERFECTION
SCOTS WHISKY.
OXJM°CALLUM LZQ EDINBURGH.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE
HOUSE OF Me CALL U IVS:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
THOMAS BROWN & SON, LTD., Townsville
and Rockhampton.
NORTHERN AUSTRALIAN BREWERIES,
LTD., Cairns.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every weefc since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
,1 to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which l enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6} 3 months, 7/,-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-} 6 months, 15/6} 3 months, 8/-
ẁ
ẃ
» ....
* O,
0°
1 V
e
.••* ,of,


nlq AWA.
With its unrivalled manufacturing resources and
the largest production in Australia could have
made available such a superlative receiver.
•? r
m I 111 It m §jk :
■-' *
:
'
' '. ;
" lk, *
F I S K —
SERIES
m \
m
v
u
u
KECEPTI
N
£lfl
\cuL CV CariL
Owners of this remarkable Radiola point with pride
to the fact that they can get interstate reception with-
out an aerial or earth and with no interference. Never
before have they heard a receiver with such super-
lative tone- —with such life-like reproduction. The
station wanted can be tuned in without the slightest
overlapping.
Using six valves, including rectifier, the Radiola 55E
has many new and advanced radio engineering
features.
For range and richness of tone • . . for fidelity of
reproduction . . . for dependable, trouble-free radio
reception . . . and for the greatest value at the lowest
price, the Radiola is without equal.
Equipped with Radiotrons.
Easy Terms available.
4 37fe
The attractive walnut cabinet is
of distinctly modern design with
a beautiful hand-rubbed finish.
1
AMALGAMATED W i RELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
