

1
vm
it
m i
"
i 11
&
rV-i-S
■HHhhI i! | i§§ i |
’ * r/5-
* i ■ •■<
WHITE HORSE
Senior Whisky of Scotland.... Smooth .... Mellow .... Mature
The Bulletin
h
Vol. 53. —No. 2720.
Wednesday, March 30, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


o uR Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
with full terms and particulars post
free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
imi
iXSJbd
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing,
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 332
aticuto
ticura
dINTMCKT
lEOICINAL
tOUCj.
•eS'SSS
I
I
THE IDEAL
COMBINATION
for SKIN-HEALTH
Cutieura Soap for
regular toilet use and an
occasional application of
Cutieura Ointment
to heal blemishes, pimples,
and the like, make the r
ideal combination for skin-
health.
Cutieura is medicated,
fragrant, healing, and
antiseptic. It has been a
household remedy for over
half a century.
Cutieura
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Taj-
cum Is. 3d. Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., atM"
Sydney, N. S. W.
Cutieura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
"THE AGE”
Established 1854'
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business- is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual . results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of cave
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 117,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or /
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Che Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Sowing the Seeds of Better Business.”
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Cbe Dominion
‘THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
ALP AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and genea’al information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE -----3 d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane "Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane "Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph"
leads the way
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly ' modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. h. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
Supreme in Its Own
Field
THE
(1) The largest paper in Western
Australia.
(2) Each issue leads in News and
Advertising.
(3) The only paper in W.A. to
publish audited circulation.-
(4) Its country circulation is un-
equalled.
(5) The metropolitan sales exceed
the combined sales of all other
Perth weeklies.
NATIONAL ADVERTISERS!
This Great Advertising Medium puts
you in touch with a valuable market.
Sydney Representative: Hal Johnstone,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
’Phone 85690.
IOSUIVd 3HI
DIRECT MEDIUM T 9 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
Cheated Out of the War
Mrs. Henry Dudeney’s latest story, The
Treasure Field (Collins; 7s. 6d.), is so
well told that you almost believe it.
Tommy Fenner is her hero. He was just
too young to go to the war, and it em-
bittered him:—
“I tell you this, Aunt Bridie, the bloody war
hasn’t done with us yet. We were cheated, and
we’re bound to get a bit of our own back sooner
or later in some way or other ; probably in a way
that nobody will like.”
If he hadn’t fallen in love with Lisabel
Carley the inhibitions imposed on his homi-
cidal impulses by the Armistice mightn’t
have mattered. But Lisabel was, an unusual
girl, a congenital bad lot, the most unsuit-
able mate imaginable for a young country
doctor. She got engaged to him, then
married young Bruce Lintott of the Hall,
then cleared out. There was an evil
influence in her life—Sir William Bly, a
drug addict, who had been a world-famous
surgeon. Bly taught her to drink and drug,
and he had driven her to the streets to earn
money for him when Tommy found her.
Tommy took her to live with him at the
Treasure Field, as- her husband had gone
abroad and left no address. She explained
about Bly:
“He’s ruined my life. He’-s turned me into what’
I am, and I don’t believe that even you can reform
me. I’m past it. If I could pray —and I can’t—
the petition I would put up would be that”
“That you might never see him again?”
“Better than that. ... I would pray that he
dropped down dead, and -at the earliest possible
moment. So long as he’s alive I’m not safe.”
“Why not safe?”
“Because I love him as you love me. ... I know
he’s an ugly, undersized little bur. I know he’s a
wretched dopist—what is the word? But I love
him, if you can call anything so fierce and devilish
love.”
She made it clear that if Bly wanted her
she would go to him again. Maddened
by the idea, spurred on also by his frus-
trated violence-complex, Tommy dashed
off. The book slumps here; the end is
too happy to be true. Bly is killed, but
not by Tommy. Tommy abandons the
bottle, to which he had taken under the
of Lisabel, and announces that his
blood-lust is satisfied. Bruce—good, hand-
some, boring Bruce—returns and is recon-
ciled to Lisabel. She forswears drink, drugs
and infidelity, and settles down to a life of
humdrum respectability as mistress of the
Hall. The strength of this novel doesn’t
consist in the fantastic principals, but' in
the numerous subsidiary characters, the
scores of clever little pictures of life in
the country, and the smooth, swift flow of
the narrative. Rebecca West was right
when she called Mrs. Dudeney “one of the
most readable of modern novelists.”
Ghosts Ancient and Modern
Elliott O’Donnell, whose- Ghosts of
London has been published by Philip Allan
at 10s. 6d., claims to have “had personal
experience with ghostly phenomena,.” Dur-
ing the war he was in a house in Red Lion
Square one afternoon when he “heard
heavy, ponderous footsteps ascending the
staircase.” He looked over the banisters:—
While I was looking and wondering the foot-
steps began to descend the stairs. I then started
off in pursuit, and kept just behind them all the
way down to the ground floor and hall door, which
I saw opened by some invisible agency and then
shut. When this happened I realised that the foot-
steps could only have been due to some denizen
from the other world.
It is typical of the pointless behavior of
most of the spirits. In Newgate an official
and'his wife were sitting in their kitchen
“when suddenly they heard the bell from
the condemned cell ringing”; in the Buck-
ingham Palace-road a Miss Stanhope saw a
girl with a ghastly white face and glit-
tering eyes, and “sprang back in alarm,
whereupon the apparition vanished”; in
the Motley Club, Soho, a large yellow dog
appeared to a Mr. Dickson, who “aimed a
slight blow at it with a stick, upon which
it faded away into nothingness, leaving Mr.
Dickson annoyed and aghast.” Most ghosts
perform the same senseless actions over
and over again, and they never do any
good; never bring criminals to justice, for
example. ■ Occasionally they become
nuisances, cause unseemly noises, smash
crockery, throw stones on roofs, and end
by being investigated. Whenever that hap-
pens they turn out to be bogus. Horace
Walpole, Dr. Johnson, the Duke of York
and other notabilities took the Cock-lane
Ghost, seriously for a while. It was sup-
posed to be haunting a family named Par-
sons. Walpole wrote of it in 1792: “It
only knocks and scratches. The clergy give
it their benedic-
tion; and all the
world, whether be-
lievers or infidels,
go to hear it.”
The investigation
came shortly after-
wards: —
The girl Parsons produced an apparatus on which
she admitted making the supposed supernatural
scratchings. She used to take it to bed with her
and conceal it on her person. Her mother, she
declared, was responsible for the knockings.
These ghost stories won’t inspire many
readers with Mr. O’Donnell’s faith, which
is a gift, but they are worth reading, if
only for their interesting sidelights on
London and Londoners. He discusses ghosts
from Enfield Chase to Ealing, and from the
Dark Ages to the present day; and, though
the apparitions are nearly always futile
where they aren’t fraudulent, the people
whom they pester stand out as an exception-
ally simple, likeable lot. They are such
stuff as new religions and promoters of wild-
cat companies thrive on.
Illusion
Lorna Rea’s The Happy Prisoner
mann; 55.) is an essay in novel form on
the bliss of ignorance. At 18 Clare, the
youngest of an important London family,
has been deaf for five years. She lives in
a world of joyous imaginings. It delights
her to watch laughter, particularly when it
is provoked by her elder sister Judy. How
brilliant friends must be! Her
brother Hugo’s friends are different-
serious, clever young men; serious, intelli-
gent young women. She reveres them too.
Her life is glamorous with tepder, unen-
vious admiration. Along comes Noel Car-
stairs, a pushing young northerner with
plenty of money and a newly-won seat in
Parliament, and falls in love with her on
sight. He persuades her mother to send
her to Mackinder, the Liverpool ear-special-
ist; Mackinder operates, she gets back her
hearing and marries Noel. Disillusion be-
gins with convalescence. Noel turns out to
be a materialist who laughs at her notions
that all doctors are fine and all politicians
pure. Judy explains that people are neither
nice, brilliant nor kind; most of their
laughter is at one another’s defects. Noel’s
widowed mother turns out to be a pathetic
old frump and fool whom he selfishly
neglects. On the honeymoon Clare admires
two angelic-looking children. Then she
hears them' abusing each other, and is
appalled. Noel explains the situation to a
friend:— •
“She ought to meet my young brothers,” said
the young'man smiling. “They’re the foulest-mouthed
little beggars in Britain.”
Noel threw back his head and laughed again.
“Oh, they’re all the same. Girls, too, they’re
every bit as bad. Come on, Clare, it’s cold if you
don’t keep moving.”
The band- was playing, the sun still _ shone, but
Clare’s happiness had fled; the day had lost its
sparkle.
And now her hearing begins to go again:—
Every week it was more difficult to hear what
people said, and music, laughter, the crackle of a
log fire, the distant hum of traffic, were lost in the
muffled roar that vibrated inside her head and shut
her away from the impact of extraneous noises.
Her illusions about life return; she is happy
again. It may be said that, in these days
of realistic novels and talkies (which, like
telephone conversations, the deaf can hear),
no girl could remain so unsophisticated as
Glare. Also, that deafness of long standing
is incurable. But The Happy Prisoner isn’t
concerned with realities, Clare, in her good-
ness and innnocence, is a character out of
“The Lives of the Saints” who has been
fitted into a Mayfair environment. It is an
interesting experiment, and entirely success-
ful.
RED PAGE.
When Pirates Ruled the Waves
C. Wye Kendall in Private Men-of-War
(Philip Allan'; 155.) explains how the priva-
teers of England—the matchless seamen who
did most to defeat the Armada and lay
the foundations of British sea-power—came
into being. The Reformation put an end to
fast days:—
As a consequence, the coasts swarmed with fisher-
men who found their means of livelihood either
completely destroyed or seriously reduced. There
being no Unemployed Insurance Act in those days,
the inevitable happened: these men, with the Cob-
hams and the Ivilligrews, the Throgmortons and the
Tremaynes, and other thwarted gentlemen as their
leaders, turned to the sea, their natural outlet, and
plundered the foes of their new-found faith whose
clumsy treasure-ships were easy prey for the nimbler
craft of the sea-going highwaymen.
England’s private-enterprise navies were
active in three periods. In the beginning
they operated only in home waters. Letters
of Marque and Reprisals were issued by the
Sovereign to enterprising captains like
Drake and the Frobisher brothers, authoris-
ing them to plunder Spanish and other
merchantment on a commission basis.
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING —Business Integrity .
“THE SENIOR STORE”
V
mm.
i-mm
1
.Hi:
kX
/•■ , ...
w
\,«3
ft
\mmmmm
■ .: 5
y?<y ' .y
mm
s
mm
V-
.
: • . <
.
OVERCOATS
The Season’s Smartest Styles
from
37/6
USE OUR D.P.S.
(Deposit-Purchase System)
First select the goods you re-
quire. Leave a deposit on them,
pay off the balance in instal-
ments and the purchase is yours.
A man is received according to his
appearance! Style and Quality must be
considered when choosing your new
season’s overcoat. Anthony Horderns’
combine these necessary features with
bedrock prices, creating outstanding
value. The styles listed below are but
typical of the comprehensive new stocks I
now available.
Chesterfields .. . 49/6
High-grade double-breasted Chesterfield Over-
coats! In smart tones of English and Aus-
tralian materials. Tailored in faultless style.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 49/6
Suitings
8¥
To Your Measure.
Let Anthony Horderns tailor your suit
for 84/-. All-wool suitings! Tweeds!
Serges! Herringbones or Fancy Worsteds!
Huge selection to pick from. Every suit
carries our guarantee of complete satisfac-
tion. Patterns on request. '
For the Neu)
GOLF SEASON
Golf Jackets 35/-
Men’s Golf Jackets. Gut on scientific
lines to allow freedom for play. Made
of fine Egyptian Cotton Gabardine. Rain-
proofed. Anthony Horderns’ Price, 357-
Fawn Woollen Gabardine. Zip fastener
down front. '
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each . . 49/6
Plus-Fours .... 27/6
Men’s Plus-Fours. Smart—designed from
All-wool Tweeds. Cut in.various styles,
will win instant approval.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices,
pair 27/6, 29/6, 35/-
Blazers 29/6
Men’s Striped Blazers. Showing in new
and interesting stripes. All blazers are
up to our usual standard of quality.
Anthony Hordferns* Price, each . . 29/6
( Men’s Weaf— Ground Floor, George Street.
We Pay Carriage.)
Smart Swingback Raglans
Swingback Raglan Overcoats in stylish tweeds! Smartly cut and made.
Anthony Horderns’ Price
. . 37/6
37/6 and 39/6
Double-breasted Styles in Navy . . . 39/6
Smart double-breasted form-fitting Overcoats in Navy Blue Overcoating, lined throughout.
Anthony Horderns’ Price *
English Overcoats 90/-
English-made Overcoats. Unsurpassed for fit, tailoring
and all-round appearance. These coats were bought before
the huge increase in duty, and are good buying, as they
cannot be repeated.
Anthony Horderns* Prices, 90/-, 105/-, 126/-, 147/-, 168/-
Navv Gabardine .. 63/-
Smartly-cut Men’s Gabardine Overcoats. Raglans, lined
throughout and finished with all-round belt.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 63 /‘
Be Fashionable in a
Leather Overcoat
105/-
Be fashionable! Wear a leather overcoat! Anthony Hor-
derns’ leather coats are stylish! Strongly made. Real hides
that will not crack or wear hard. Double-breasted. Belted
and lined throughout. First-grade hides in Dark Tan or
Nigger-brown. Anthony Horderns’ Prices . . 105/-, 135/-
( Department—Ground Floor, George Street. We Pay
Carriage') 1
✓ -#>
-sr
*
’Phone M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


This is
the
Life V
t * X
Wfsjm
. ■:
I 'S^|
.a |
Ilf
ft
±
»§
■
,: . ' . O'-'-: : :
mmm.
' '••A
Good music / . . good company . . .
and the best of cigarettes on the
table between you. Appraisingly you
feel the firmness with which they are
rolled. Approvingly you savour the
cool smoke / of the fine even-burning
blend of Virginian Tobacco that is
exclusive to Country Life Cigarettes.
»* ,,s
Country life
CORK TIPPED VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
Made in Your Own- Country at the Garden Factory— Raleigh Park
-by W. D. & H. O. WILLS (Aust.) Ltd'
14-1' 21-l/e
And in Tins of 50, 100 and 150.
Also 50s, Round Air-tight Tins.
308 i


BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
PRACTICAL BIRTH CONTROL, by Hornibrook, 5/-
Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/3; Wise Parenthood by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/10 ; Sex at
Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Erskine, 11/5; The Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10 Enduiin,,
Passion, bv Marie Stopes, 7/10; Contraception—Birth Control, Its Theory, Histoiy and Practice,
by Marie Carmichael Stopes, 22/4; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the
Young', by Marie Stopes, 4/10; The New Toxology—The Science of Sex and Life, 8/- , The Sex
Factor in Marriage, by Helena Wright, 5/9; Sex Knowledge by N March 1/8; Love and
Marriage, by Scott Hall, 13/3 ; Exercises for Women, by Hornibrook j/4 ; Secrets of Successful
Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4; Realities of Marriage, by Dr G Courtenay Beale,
10/4; Youth and Maidenhood, by W. M. Gallichan, 4/0; The Perfect Wife, by Dr G.
Courtenay Beale, 1/11; The Happy Lover, by Dr. G Courtenay Beale, 1/11; Eugenics and Birth
Control, by J. Rutgers, M.D., 15/6; Pitfalls of Marriage, by W . M. Gallichan 6/3, Wise
Wedlock, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/3; Medical Views on Birth Control, 6/4; Canary
Breeding for Beginners, 2/9; Physical Culture Simplified—A Complete Course of Physical
Culture, 6/3; Better Sight Without Glasses, by H. Benjamin, 0/4; The Culture of the
Abdomen, bv Hornibrook, 7/10; Sex Problems and Their Solution, by Haydn Biown, 6/o,
PROSPECTING FOR GOLD
By lON IDRIESS.
NEW THIRD EDITION, with eight, additional chapters on Reef Mining,
Prospecting for Opal, Tin and other minerals.
PRICE 5/3, Post Free.
sal WkSAA Y«nri‘Siu“fb y ‘ Sf, WTSJS& *:«
3B& SSWg
sSfisra-MwSStralto Builder'. Price Book, 15/0; Men,,, art. Baiy, by M>W “e.
5/4; Cocktail’s and How to Mix Them, 3/11; Anst. Huts anti Hut Growing * n by c ®T
9/<t . ponlshanvG Letter Writer, 3/4; Chambers’s Twentieth-century Dictionaij, 13/4, Cards
Three, bfßnsil Dalton, M.A., 3/1; Official Rules of Card Games to Date”). 8/8.
Pmular Card Games and How to Play and Win, by S. Ings, 1/5; The Book of Luck, by H. •
Souter 1/5; Foulsham’s Best Short Prose Recitations, 3/4; House’s Canary Manual 2/9; Table
Rapping, 2/6; 12 Best Indoor Games for Two, by A. Belasco, 1/6; Ward Lock Letter• M rite
for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2; The Companion Letter Writer 2/Si.
How to Read the Hand, by Karma, 4/-; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/11.
Soldering and Brazing for Amateurs, 1/11; Furniture Repairing for Amateui», 1/11 . ,
for Amateurs 1/11; What to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Cassell’s Concise English Dictionary, 3/2,
Painting Ironwork, Steel and Metal, by W. L. Savage, 1/6; Every Man His Own Mechanic, •/-.
Home Carpentry, by John Barnard, 4/1; Aust. Book of Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 3/v,
Boot and Shoe Repairing, 1/11; Clock and M atch Repairing, 1/11; Double-bed Dialogues, 1/- >
McSem Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 6/-; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes, 26/-; Napoleons
Book of Fate, 3/4; Zadkeil’s Dream Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4 ; Chmro Guide to the Hand,
4/1 The Angora Rabbit Book for Australia, 2/3; Universal Trade Reckoner 4/3 ; BuUetin
Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Prospecting for Gold (Austral a ), J
book oi nunioiuuo v o/o. a to / of Australian Fruit-
Special Price—ls/-; Crystal Gazing and Clairvoyance, 0/3; lour ummes, —" r&L ,nd
Lee’s Guide to the Game of Draughts, 4/6; Chess Lessons for Begmners, 2/6 Chess and
Draughts, by Belasco, 1/5; How to Repair and Restring Tennis Racquets, 3/- Motor Repai
Manual, 4/7; Motor Electrical Manual, 4/7; Guide for the _ Chairman and Secretary, 3/2, The
Modern Letter Writer, 2/9; Hypnotism Simplified, by Martin, 1/11; Hand-reading Made E«u ,
by Noel Jaquin, 4/6; Parenthood —a Manual of Birth Control, by Fielding, 4/-; R°veand
Marriage, by Winifred Scott Hall, 13/-; Sex Knowledge—with special chapter on bnth control,
1/8 • The Why and How of Birth Control, by Dr. Adamson, 4/7; How to Mesmerise, by Ja
Coates, 3/3; The Mastery of Sex, by L. D. Weatherhead —a vital book, 5/5.
Try the Bookstall Co. First
WRITE FOR LISTS OF BOOKS ON SUBJECTS IN WHICH YOU ARE INTERESTED.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
Francis Drake, with his brothers John and
Joseph, did particularly well: —
lie arrived home on the 2Gth of September, 1380,
with treasure valued at 1,189,200 ducats, or, roughly,
two million five hundred thousand pounds sterling.
There was other booty:—
Dover market became the chief mart for the goods
brought in by the privateers. Among the interesting
odds and ends offered for sale were Spanish gentle-
men, some of them Grandees of the Court, who
could he bought by the speculative for £lOO, to he
kept in the cellar or elsewhere until ransomed at a
profit.
What was the explanation of tlie English
privateers’ repeated successes against, heavy
odds? “Spain,” remarks the author drily,
“was reputed by almost everyone except
sailors to be the greatest maritime power
of the sixteenth century.” There you have
it. The English ships were manned, manoe-
uvred and fought by sailors; the Spaniards
clung to the old tradition of slave sailors
and oarsmen on barges carrying com-
panies of soldiers. The “sea wolves of
England” continued to terrorise the
Spaniards, Portuguese and French after the
destruction of the Armada, and now the
West Indies rose above the azure main as a
lucrative hunting-ground. But privateering
wasn’t so safe as in the spacious days of
Elizabeth. A pirate as ruthless as Henry
Morgan might be knighted (lie was not
only knighted, but was made an Admiralty
Court Judge!); on the other hand lie was
liable to be hanged—a fate which befell
William Kidd. Mr. Kendall, by the way,
considers that Kidd was “the victim of a
very ugly perversion of justice.” He left
England in 1695 with a Letter of Marque
authorising him to capture certain American
pirates, and “to apprehend, seize and take
the ships, vessels and goods belonging to
the French king and his subjects.” The
warrant would have been a good defence,
but it was suppressed at his trial in London.
Privateers were formally legalised in the
eighteenth century. They flew their own
flag, the Privateer Jack—“a Red Jack with
the Union Jack described in the canton
at the upper corner thereof near the Staff.”
They were supposed to be commerce-
destroyers (an outcome of Colbert’s inven-
tion of “la guerre de course”), but they
often attacked and beat warships. Thus the
crew of the Speedwell, in a 22-ton barque
(built after their ship had gone to pieces
on the rocks at Juan Fernandez), engaged
• the Jesus Maria, of 200 tons. They had only
one small cannon, a few muskets, most of
which were useless, and three rusty cut-
lasses, yet “with a resolute despair they laid
athwart the Spaniards hawse” and took her.
Private Men-of-War discusses the rise
of the R.N. from an angle that has not
attracted the attention of any of the general
historians, and it is full of quaint items of
information; the sources of the buccaneers’
variegated costumes, which artists have
found so inspiring; their sturdy patriot-
ism—Henry Mainwaring was offered and
refused 20,000 ducats a year by the
Spaniards to fight for them; their profound
religious sense. Captain Sharp, after a
vigorous career, was deposed by his crew: —
One of the grievances against Sharp was his
failure to keep the Sabbath in a proper manner,
The buccaneers, like modern brigands, were of a
pious disposition and extremely punctilious in the
observance of the more superstitious practices of
religion. Even in church upon occasion they would
shoot anybody considered to he lacking in a proper
respect for the God they worshipped.
H.S.
Versus Dewey
At 18 I decided that when I had some
spare time I would start a new religion. At
20 I thought it might be better to abolish
existing religions. At 22 I washed my hands,
of the business, and resolved to let the
old world muddle along as it had been
doing. So the crisis passed.
Some reformers unfortunately never leave
the first stage, and of these is one Dewey,
an American, and the author of Decimal
Classification and Relativ Index, which is
used in the Sydney Public Library. With
the book I have no quarrel, although I
can’t understand it. I suspect that it is a
work of great merit. But I join issue with
Mr. Dewey when he uses his talents for
classification to proselytise his new spelling
system. Instead of going to the Islands,
and coming back on furlough occasionally
to utter fatuities about native morals, the
learned American sets up as a missionary
in language.
His system is, according to himself, eco-
nomical, logical, aesthetic, and several other
things, its chief attribute being economy.
He estimates just how many billions of
money would be saved yearly if the system
were adopted by typists and such, and the
figure is arresting. But not all of us, thank
Heaven! spend our lives in offices, haunted
by the spectre of utility, and what is
economy in one place may be plain dese-
cration in another!
He practises what he preaches. Tlie
preface says:—
Sum typografic errors hav doubtless been overlook!.,
but we intend to spel as abuv. .. . Simpler spelings
ar strongly recommended for jeneral adaption by both
American and English filolojic associations, including
nearly all prominent skolars in English now living.
The “simpler spelings” take pages to
explain, and are as arbitrary as the present
ones are haphazard—if things may be called
haphazard which have a longer lineage than
the choicest Yere de Vere, and not blue but
good, rich, red blood in their bodies! I
would as soon see a Vere de Vere jolted
away in the tumbril as see the words of
the language hacked about and mutilated
to make a Yankee Revolution! “Filolojic,”
indeed! Language is as much emotional as
logical, and if we are going to try to ration-
alise our emotions (i.e., do the impossible),
then let me crawl away to a desert island
where there are no missionaries of any kind.
If I may be allowed one book, then let
me have my dictionary.
Mr. Dewey and his co-reformers but
touch the fringe of the matter. In out'
language, sense and sound cause more
trouble than form. But even were his
notions established, the new language would
be inferior to “Bow-wow,” Volapuk arid
Esperanto, whose patient votaries still hope
for the Millennium. And the present gen-
eration would be left with a vehicle which
was neither completely new nor completely
strange; which violated the artistic concept
by not being natural enough to be accept-
ably natural, nor grotesque enough to be
acceptably grotesque. Modem books would
become archaic curiosities, and Masefield
would read, to the next generation, like
Chaucer.
No: the written language will change in
the future, as it has always done, some-
what behind the changing ideas of the
people who use it—imperceptibly, conserva-
tively, despite the bi'ight suggestions of
exotic radicals.
A.R.Q.
A Satchel of Books
The Dry Pickwick (The Bodley Head;
55.) is the title Stephen Leacock has chosen
for a score of skits in his well-known
manner. He imagines Dingley Dell under
Prohibition; a mediaeval knight holing out
in one at goph; the world war as Shak-
speare would have recorded it, and other
comicalities. It isn’t Leacock at his best,
but it’s very funny all tlie same.
Death of Mr. Gantley (Collins ; _ 7s. 6d.)
is another of those brain-teasers which Miles
Burton dashes off as easily as boy-flappers
dictate sex novels. No wonder Prime Minis-
ters prefer mystery yarns; they keep the
intellect in training. Briefly, when the
owner of the “Downhamshire Courier” was
found dead in his overturned car, the police
had to discover when he had been shot, and
why, as a prelude to putting their hands on
the assassin. They would have failed utterly
only Desmond Merrion turned up and showed
that Gantley hadn’t been killed in his car on
Sunday, but on his houseboat on Saturday,
and that But read it. for yourself. It
is more closely reasoned than the same
writer’s “Menace on the Downs,” which is
saying a lot.
We seem to have seen Baffin's Gold , by H.
P. Lee (Methuen; 3s. 6d.), as a talkie. In
fact, as several talkies. Keith Maitland
looked stunning in his Royal Canadian
Mounted Police uniform, and the conduct of
his scoundrelly colleague Inspector O’Dell
made our blood boil. And then there was
that heroic ten days’ trek with Ruth through
tlie shows of Baffin Land, which culminated
in the close-up:—
“Ruth!” he said huskily.
“Keith.... oh Keith!” she whispered, and lifted
her face to his. Tenderly he kissed her warm
lips,, lips that clung to his and sent fierce thrills
through his tired body.
There were some amusing small-part players,
and notablv good old Andy MacDougall, but
Ruth and Keith were the only ones who
really mattered.
Awakening, by George C. Foster (Chap-
man and Hall; 7s. 6d.). John Seyland,
nephew of rich Sir Peter Seyland, went into
the firing-line from Harrow in 1918. A shell
buried him in a cellar: —
Locked away as securely as any mortal taken by
trolls or gnomes to underground caverns, John
Seyland lay in a trance indistinguishable, from death.
But lie wasn’t dead, and he returned to liis
old life in 1931. He was scandalised to find
pacifist politicians running England, so be
went into Parliament himself. After many
disillusionments he happened to return to
Arc. where he had spent his 13 years of
unconsciousness, and the next thing he knew
it was 1981. He liad done it again. Louis
XXI was on the French throne, and Eliza-
beth ’ 11. was Queen of England; the £
was worth 4.92 dollars, income tax in Britain
was 9d. in tlie £, and “was expected to be
less shortly when tlie last of the national
debt is paid.” Prohibition? As dead as the
slave trade. A most ingenious fantasy with
some interesting love-stories running through
it.
And a Little Verse
ENVOCATION.
Strang-foonded, ink-a-rise pen,
Best drawn at nicht... .1 like ye when
After lang silence ’hint my ear,
Ye’ll spring to paper whiles I steer
My ainself, crazy, doon the rows
Of Alpha-Betas, whaur your nose
Pits up the Muse, wi’ halesome mirth,
That yesterday had gane to earth.
N.S.W.
HUGH McCARE.
THE LOVERS.
Berry-brown with a tip-tilt month.
The Earth is a country wench,
With a throat like a dove and leaf-dark
eyes,
And she waits on the sky s broad bench
With a soft smile for the ardent Sun,
Whose limbs arc bright and bare,
For the questing splendor of his eyes
And the wavelike lift of his hair.
But there, amidst the vague delights
And the music, vaguely broken,
Of the drifting gardens of white cloud,
The Sun forgets his token.
He swoons in a summer haze of dreams
Though the sky shrinks grey with cold,
And he lies by the toppling tapestries
While his wearied marigold
Tiptilts her mouth at a random smile,
Drawling a sleepy tune,
And clutches with her warm brown hand
The ankles of the moon.
N.S.W.
ADRIAN SUMMERS.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufiicien Up
and address mult appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
ond no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Charles C.: Would be yes if we had a
little more space.... Douglas W.: Rather artificial.
....Joyce S.: Very slight... .5.8. T.: Not a gleam.
. ...E.V.8.: Quite well done; but the idea is a
rag... .A.M.: Try it on “John o' London”....
D. : Gentle, ineffective rhyming. .. .E.A.E.:
Detail without atmosphere. But you’ll do something
with reading and application... .K.L.D.: Can’t hold
out any hope to you. To start with, your car evi-
dently accepts rhymes that ought to shatter it....
1.T.A.E.: Sweet-sweet... .Zed: P00r... .A.S.W.:
Doesn't touch us anywhere that a good story should
—not e\en in the pocket... .Paddie D.: You've got
a facility for rhyme; now get something worth
rhyming 5.R.8.: Sweet, but frail... .Nellie D.:
The, art of the rhymester is to make the rhymes seem
inevitable. That’s the first lesson.... Clare S.: Try
rewriting “Jealous Woman.” Last verse of “Escape”
is g00d.... To Kowliai: Not suitable.... Cass: Re-
ceived with great joy “The Critic —A Serial. Cliapt.
I”:
Oh, tho critic is a wildflower of the Poetivorous
class,
Who browses on your bantlings as the moo-cow
munches grass;
His order is unnatural; genus inseeticce;
And his habitat—well, everywhere that jaundiced
Jivers be.
His body is constructed of a pot of acid ink ;
And where his mind ain’t vacuum it smelleth like a
sink.
He’s fifteen-horsepower jaws; his teeth are pens of
mighty length ;
And his eyes are searchlight microscopes of double-
extra strength.
.-..Seres: Three to four Hundred words is the
'limit ■in these days when thousands of thoughtful
men want to have their say... .E.S.N.: Advertising
pages have been reduced by about one-half....
M.8.C.: Go hack to September 7, and you’ll find it
all. set out M.F.: Put it into prose and
try it on an agricultural journal.-.. .R.A.S.: No,
they’re not worth while... .L.W.: You won’t raise
any “needful” with that sort of “lay”; not here,
anyhow 11.T.8. and J.R.R.: Thank God the Bridge
is opened! Wc never before had such a flood of
mushy doggerel on a single subject... .A.F. :• Un-
inspiring W.R.A.: “Australia’s Hope” hopeless.
Orana Willows: Harbor Bridge Welcome Song,
wherein “Harbor” has to rhyme with “farther” reso-
lutely declined... .E.M.: No g00d... .F.J.H.L.:
“Broad-harbored Sydney’s graceful coronet,” “The
Sphinx and Pyramids alone thy peers”—we grow
very tired of this sort of grandiose imagery
E. : No, we’re hanged if we d 0... .E.A.J.:
Lawson and water, mostly water... .V.J.: Feeble to
the verge of inanity P.0.M.C.: Nothing- promising
in it except the last line-... .A.G.: So you write a
lot of poems and have been disheartened often.
Well, we don’t wonder at it W.P.: Mournful in
its vacuous commonplaces... .K. 8.: Run away and
play... .S.D.O’N.: Poor stuff... .W.0.-C.: Verse of a
sort, but meritless R.G.1.: Doesn’t go smoothly
enough for a thing like that... .R.E.: We put down
three trial shafts and couldn’t find the meaning. ...
E.J.: Rhyme can’t take the place of sense. For
instance: —
In lonely crags and gullies her silence ne’er unsullies
The life she has created in that haunt unknown to
man.
... .L.R.W.: Too forced. .. .John II.: You have emo-
tion, but so far not the expression to carry it.
Poetry is not just a gush of words.... A.0.D.: But
we never suggested that these men would make a
living. If they make half a living they’ll be doing
twice as much as they are doing to-day Muriel I’.:
You are very young, Muriel. Keep the ideals and
blend them with experience; they'll probably
blossom into poetry some day... .Marjorie F.: There s
atmosphere in it; but the idea’s as thin as the
hound of Lazarus T.P.: Very sentimental, and
the “awe”-“more” rhyme is an insult to your car.
....L.A.S.: Ending strikes us as feeble. The little
man would never have left that tenner behind
Data; First you tell us that in the N.S.W. railways
you haven’t done or been expected to do* an honest
dav’s work for 10 years; in the next that the
whole system will go to the dogs unless the staff is
replenished to 1(10 p.c. strength. Seems to be a
violent contradiction somewhere... .F.J.: Four heart-
breaking lines:—
In vain I tried to keep up the payments;
Tlie rent fell quickly into arrears
Because I did in my foolish way
Put most of my money into beers.
R.B.: You’re tlie first bard of our acquaintance
who ever made the moon masculine... . D.Z.D.: No
ginger in it... .A. Grouch: A worn-out theme. .. .Will
C.: No space for “Tho Prospector’s Ghost” when he
takes 1.30 lines to gibber his little piece Elsie:
Your verse creaks and jolts like an ungreased waggon.
.. . McKeilty: A nightmare of tangled metaphors...
M. of the W.: You make a poor fist of it....
lv.M.: A mournful effsrt.... Dave Cowbail: That
“dawn”-“com’’ rhyme sets our teeth on edge....
Rod McL.: “Omar Osborne” would have had a
chance with a bit more polish... .F.E.: “Bill is
somewhat longvvinded.” Too true... .8.M,: Trifling.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.H.: Make the figures clearer. .. .J.W.M.: School-
boyish. ... F.M.: They came witliput jokes and they’re
not worth handing to a jokesmith.... J.J.V.: Poor.
... .A.C.: Drawing looks as if it had got in tho
way of a geyser. . . .L.A.S.: Humor must have leak.ed
out of it in the post.... R..T.K.: Detest the habit of
tying loops to people’s mouths and packing them
with print... .J.W.M.T.: Not keen on jokes about
physical deformities V. 8.: Make them larger and
tidier D.M.: Humorless 11. D.: Looks more like
a case for an opticianthan an art teacher....
0.L.5.: What has been gnawing at the lady’s right
hand? R. 11.: The Bristol board had some value
before you began to draw on it... .W.8.C.:
Sharpened tlie editorial axe at sight of it....N.N.:
Picture of deadbeat complaining about scarcity of
beer declined F.R.: Slight variation of old jest.
. ...E.Iv.R.: Joke has been circulated by every pos-
sible medium except, perhaps, television... .F.D.S.:
Ballroom scene a hopeless tangle of scraggy lines
and blots M.T.W.: All in the basket J.G.:
Try us when you have completed the course.. ..
8.R.: Faint seribblings received with sighs
K.P.M.D.: Not bad enough to hull brickbats at nor
good enough to pelt with roses... .C.L.C.: It
wouldn’t be Easter if that old favorite didn’t arrive.
W.B.H.: Haphazard lines and an insipid jest.
.. . .C.S.: You’re ill-prepared for an art career....
11. D.: Sort of witticism that would go well at an
undertakers’ conference. .. .F.S.F.: No cheque for
picture of lop-sided lady who has crowned her
husband with a bottle R.W.T.: Wretched
1.M.M.: You would be awfully glad if we could tell
you if it is quite hopeless. Glad to make you glad.


9
'll
■
I
m
I
I IB
m
BI
n
5:
V*- < K
- ilit
■B
-
■
H
?
■ ■
■
1111 ;
9 ■
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 2720.
March 30. 1932.
THE BOOK AND THE BREW.
“The Financial Agreement Enforcement Act, designed by the Federal Government to authorise Federal seizure of the revenues of States defaulting on their
interest, has been before the High Court for the past week. The N.S.W. Government claims that it is ultra vires the Federal Constitution.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE: “The question, my learned brothers, is whether the brew is made according to the recipe book.”
LEARNED BROTHER: “I haven't made up my mind about that, Chief; but, whether or no, it’s darned good punch.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFJCE: 2.-72 George Street, Sydney;
liox 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : 111/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westkalia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, H Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. jor 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for 1/oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
IS PRIVATE ENTERPRISE A
PUBLIC BENEFIT?
A very extraordinary thing is happening.
The country is full of unemployed; and a
very popular idea is that men cannot get
work because of a shortage of something
called “credits.” “Release credits;” we are
told, and our troubles would soon be over:
men would be taken back into industry,
wages would circulate, trade would flourish
and everything in the garden would be
lovely once more. But at the very moment
when this bright picture is being painted,
company after company is returning capital
to its shareholders, unable to see any pro-
fitable use for the money in Australia. And
there is no doubt whatever that a great
many more companies would do it if they
could realise enough assets to make a
repayment. In one case at least property
is being mortgaged to provide the money;
but where industrial cos. are concerned that
is very rarely possible. Instead of being an
asset and a help, money or credit can thus
be a liability and a hindrance, something
not to be welcomed but to be got rid of.
Obviously, then, it is not sufficient to
provide people with money or credit. They
must be satisfied that they will be able to
make profitable use of the money. Now,
there is more nonsense talked about profit
than about almost anything else in the
world. Here and there it is possible for
somebody to make an excessive profit;
and generally where that is the case it will
be found that legislation is responsible for
it by creating a monopoly of some kind.
In most cases, however, what seems an
excessive profit is merely a provision to
meet great risks ; and it is very rarely that
the provision is sufficient over a long
period. The men who make the great
profits are not, as a rule, the men who
remain in industry or trade: they are the
men who get out, leaving the risks to be
carried in most cases by people who have
made no provision to meet them. That is
what happens, one might say, on three
farms out of four. The original holder has
a succession of good seasons, on the strength
of which he sells out. The man who comes
in meets the bad years for which he has
made no provision, and either goes to the
wall or suffers years of privation. In busi-
ness, if bad times come early, relief has
usually to be sought by writing capital off
as lost or unrepresented by assets.
The meaning of all this is that very much
of what looks like profit is not profit at all,
and that the hullabaloo which is made
about its excessiveness is based upon a
wrong conception of its real nature. All
money is worth approximately the same
amount in the same place at the one time;
that some money is bringing in 4i p.c. and
other money perhaps 20 p.c. merely shows
that there are some investments in which
one has a far better chance of losing one’s
capital than in others. With veiy rare
exceptions the man who sticks to the
investments carrying the low rates of
interest-return comes out best in the end.
In other words, the high dividend rates are
very rarely high enough to cover the extra
risks of the business. Dozens of examples
could be cited from the history of the past
few years. Allied Motor Interests, Ltd.,
is the first case on the share list. Origin-
ally Tarrant’s Motors, Ltd., handling the
Ford agency, it presently controlled six sub-
sidiaries, and in 1924-25-26 paid in all 55 p.c.
in dividends. From that time it has not
only not paid a farthing, but 10s. per share
(50 p.c.) has been struck off capital and
there is still a heavy deficit, made up of
further losses, to provide for. Few busi-
nesses last many years. Of 130 companies
less than 10 years of age which were on a
list in the ’nineties only 23 remain in exist-
ence. The other 107 have already dis-
appeared; most of them disappeared within
the first seven years.
Most of the objection to Private Enter-
prise is due to a belief that vast savings
could be made if there were no fat share-
holders to provide for. In theory this is
right; what happens in practice is quite
different. The private business which is
not based on a mot opoly of some sort is
built up 19 times out of 20 by some man
of extraordinary capacity—some Henry
Jord or Hugh V. McKay. Generally he
makes a great deal of money, which
almost always he puts back into the busi-
ness, having very little use for money him-
self; and he builds up an enterprise which
employs probably thousands of people.
When he dies the job is carried on by men
he has chosen and trained, and in a good
many cases it continues to be successful ;
alter that it mostly loses the individual
driving force, and not once in a hundred
times does the business last beyond a third
generation. It gets then into exactly the
same position as public enterprise is always
in. That fundamental fact alone would
doom public enterprise to failure and ulti-
mate collapse. It may be saved for a time
by the enthusiasm of its advocates; in
Russia, for example, no doubt some men
have done amazing things for their faith.
The same high ideals once permeated the
Labor party in Australia. But who believes
that one in ten of the State employees in
Australia to-day is animated by a burning
enthusiasm for public ownership and con-
trol, impelling him to wear himself out in
order to exalt his political creed? Our
public services are a financial disaster
because nobody in control is much inter-
ested in making them anything else; while
a great many are interested in spending
money and finding jobs which make success
impossible.
An analysis of company lists shows that
the greatest mortality is among industrial
companies.. Whole pages of such concerns
on record in the “Joint Stock Companies’
Year-Book” of the early, days of this cen-
tury have disappeared. The only concerns
which can be depended upon to persist
through the years are those in which good-
will counts for a great deal and individual
driving force is not wanted to at least keep
the thing going—such as old-established
banks and insurance offices. The inevitable
result of these two facts—-the heavy risk of
industrial concerns and the comparatively
light risk of bank-deposits—is that, when-
ever confidence in a Government is lacking,
money. is withdrawn from investment in
industrials (and ordinary trading concerns
are in much the same category) and put
where it carries less risk and can be with-
drawn at short notice. So on the one hand
we have the repayment of large amounts
of preference share capital, because directors
are not prepared to take the risk of guaran-
teeing its safety, and on the other a rush
to put money on bank deposit—a rush
which has had to be twice checked lately
by a reduction of interest.
Every such movement makes the re-em-
nloyment of the out-of-work more difficult.
Socialisation, Communism might be—would
be —a short-lived disaster; as we see in
Russia, it can only live by being modified
almost out of recognition; at the present
moment the original godless aspect of the
business is being quickly and radicallv
changed. But it is doubtful whether at
its worst it could produce much worse
effects than the dread of socialisation is
working upon our present system; for by
driving capital into retreat it is slowly
strangling existing industries, both primary
and secondary, and making it quite imposs-
ible to start new ones, while none of such
benefits as it might show (universal employ-
ment. for example) are available.
THE A.N.A. TURNS UNIFICATIONIST.
Federation was very largely an A.N.A.
achievement, Deakin, Quick, Peacock and
other foremost Federalists were A.N.A. men,
and all through the ’nineties the Natives’
campaign for Federation transcended the
efforts of other organisations. At their con-
ference in Bendigo in March of ’9B. Hume
Cook, who was to become M.H.R.
for Bourke and one of Deakin’s Ministers,
moved the famous motion which pledged
the A.N.A. to support Federation.” He has
been reminded of this at another A.N.A.
conference in the same city; “on this very
day four-and-thirty years ago,” a delegate
from Yea said, “Mr. Hume Cook passed a
note to Mr. Deakin which read, ‘The fire
is lighted—fan the flame.’ ” Then the sons
of the men who lighted the fire (unheeding
the protests of Quick, Cook and Wise,
crouching about the ashes) resolved, by a
2-to-l majority, that they had had enough
of Federation and wanted unification:—
That the Commonwealth Constitution should be
remoulded on the principle that the Commonwealth
Parliament should have power to make laws for
the peace, order and good government of Australia
with respect to all matters, and that such Parlia-
ment should delegate to provincial bodies legislative
and administrative powers with respect to matters
of purely local importance.
Everyone is dissatisfied with the results
of Federation, but is the system so much
to blame as the men who have had the
administering of it? It is not the fault of
the system that “trade, commerce and
intercourse among the States” are no longer
free.. Section 92 of the Constitution Act
provided that they should be “absolutely
free.” But State Government after State
Government erected barriers against the
admission of goods from other States, and
Commonwealth Government after Com-
monwealth Government winked at these
lawless proceedings, until the nation woke
up one morning and found that Under
N.S.W. law Australians could be sent to
gaol for selling the produce of other Aus-
tralians. And still the Commonwealth
Government took no action.
Nor is the Federal system really respon-
sible for the setting up of huge overlapping
departments, crammed with superfluous
employees, or for the taxation by one State
of income derived from another, or for State
taxation of income which the victim has
never received. Weak or corrupt politicians
and bureaucrats or public-service organisa-
tions playing on their weakness or impro-
bity are the guilty parties. In these
respects, and others, the men have failed,
not the machine. Federal power, wisely
and firmly exercised—and extended where
extension was plainly shown to be neces-
sary—could have saved Australia from many
of the abuses which have grown up in the
last 20 years, and which are perversions
of the Federal form of government, and
not inherent defects. Federal power firmly
exercised could have checkmated Lang, if
the Scullidores had proceeded to judgment
against that defaulter, if they had
refused to treat with him unless he con-
fessed judgment, and had then had a law
passed making default a gaoling matter —
as Lang, in contempt of the Constitution,
has made the selling of unstamped goods
from other States in N. S. Wales—he would
not have dared to repeat the crime against
his country which he committed last year,
and again last month.
Changes, of course, there will havo to be
—Australia is suffering from “too much
sovereignty.” as B. S. B. Stevens says. But
the changes can be made without taking the
leap in the dark that the jump from a
Federal to a unitary system would be. It
is quite possible to have a complete separa-
tion of national and provincial powers,
together with an easier method of establish-
ing new provincial governments free from
domination by city mobs, without scrap-
ping the Commonwealth Constitution.
Even in its perverted form the Federal
system is a check on those predatory mobs
and the demagogues who lead them. Bad
as things are we might go further and fare
worse. Imagine a Lang Government in
complete control of Australia, without even
the brake of a second Chamber!
CHINA AND JAPAN.
It would require a powerful microscope to
detect any advantage Japan has got for her-
self out of Shanghai. The invasion of China
was an act of desperation. Its aim was to
put a stop to the boycott of Japanese trade,
which had sunk to a negligible figure after
the seizure of Manchuria. Japan has occu-
pied a small area of mudflat near Shanghai,
mainly populated by corpses of Chinese
civilians, and the ruins of the great indus-
trial district of Chapei. In return she has
earned universal odium and distrust, and
has shown her hand to such an extent that
even the timid League has plucked up heart
sufficiently to say nasty things against her.
In the meantime the boycott goes on mer-
rily, despite the assurance of the Yellow
Government that it is having nothing to do
with it. Thousands of Japanese traders
have returned to Nippon, not because they
were in danger from Chinese mobs, but
because the nation as a whole refuses to do
business with them. So general is the
detestation of everything Japanese that a
Chinese who finds himself inadvertently
eating Japanese tinned meat feels all the
horror of a Mohammedan who has acci-
dentally swallowed pork in mistake for
mutton. In Hongkong householders flung
so many Japanese pots and pans into the
streets that the British authorities had to
crush the mounds of discarded utensils with
steam rollers in order to clear the thorough-
fares.
Even if the Celestial Government wanted
to stop the boycott it could not do it. The
real rulers of the homogeneous republic
are not the frightened officials at Nanking
or Loyang or wherever the Government
happens to be sitting down at the moment,
but the students. They are the political
force which is moulding China into a nation.
Mere schoolboys spout at every street
corner. When the police charge them they
kneel down and bare their devoted breasts
to the bayonets. They picket Japanese
factories and make bonfires of Japanese
goods, and merchants who have the temerity
to fulfil their contracts with Japanese im-
porters are apt to disappear mysteriously.
It is difficult to see how the Shanghai inci-
dent will change this universal hatred of
Japan into lovingkindness.
The results in the international sphere
are no more impressive. Japan’s warlike
behavior has definitely spoilt any chance
that existed of the Disarmament Confer-
ence being anything more than a fresh out-
let for oratory, and most of the leading
nations concerned are talking about the
need of bigger armies and navies. The
puppet Governor who has been set up in
Manchuria is a Manchu, but the country
is no longer Manchurian but Chinese,
immigration having raised the yellow popu-
lation to the region of 30 millions. In due
course the puppet will call on Japan for
aid against his enemies, as the Korean king
did just prior to the annexation of his
country h}' the Mikado. If Manchuria is
added to the Mikado’s dominions Russia
will be brought into the foreground of the
picture, the background to which is Japan-
ese over-population, made more intense by
the unemployment due to the breakdown
of the world’s monetary system. But the
Japs are no more an immigrating race
than are the French. Despite the huge
increase in the area of the Mikado’s
dominions in the last generation, less than
half a million Nipponese live outside their
homeland while the annual increase is in
the neighborhood of 750,000. They do not
men immigrate to their own under-popu-
lated island of Hokkaido. Unlike the
L/ninaman, who flourishes equally luxuri-
ant y m tropical Singapore and frozen Mon-
the brown man likes a temperate
climate, and hates to leave his lares et
penates for foreign countries.
Some years ago the rulers of Japan came
to the philosophical conclusion that the best
way, under the circumstances, to absorb
the annual increase was to develop home
industries, and plans were laid for acquiring,
by force if necessary, the coal, iron, oil and
soya-bean resources adjacent to the archi-
pelago. It was for this reason that they
barged into Manchuria, Mongolia, Siberia
and Shantung. But home production has a
habit of outstripping home consumption,
and the necessity for foreign markets arises.
If the Rising Sun rulers could have Indian-
lsed China they might have partially solved
the problem; but they came too late into
the field. There were too many other
Great Powers playing the same game:
Moreover, China has lately become a
nation- a somewhat ramshackle nation, but
still with sufficient cohesion to make things
uncomfortable for even the strongest
aggressor. Ihe weapon of the boycott was
first improvised against America. It was
next used on a large scale against the
British, and temporarily wrecked the trade
of Hongkong. The British tried conciliation
with good results. It is difficult to see how
the Japs can recover their former commer-
cial supremacy in China except by the same
policy of goodwill; and it will require a lot
of goodwill to wipe out the memory of
Chapei.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Public Masters.
Up to 1914 the Australian citizen was a com-
paratively free man so far as his lawful
private interests and concerns went. His
banking transactions were a confidential
matter between him and his banker, his
business accounts and activities were his
own private affair. If he wanted to go
abroad he went, unhindered. If he liked
his literature with flavor in it, he could get
it at his bookseller’s.
War came, and brought with it certain
necessary restrictions on the liberty of the
citizen, and a great many unnecessary ones.
Peace followed, but the interferences did
not cease. Rather did they increase. The
politicians and their armies of clerks and
hangers-on had discovered how to live at
ease on the country, the easy-going Aus-
tralian had got used to doing what they
told him was necessary for the welfare of
the country. Now, 13 years later, the
country—that is, the taxpayer—has to sup-
port some 210,000 Government employees,
at a cost of £60,000,000 yearly. It works
out at about one emplojme to each 40 men,
women and children, or one adult male in
every 12. It is a preposterous proportion.
This army, together with its political
background, has to gain its living from
the private citizen, and it does it mainly
through Customs duties, income tax and
the myriad assorted grabbings which have
grown up from income and land taxes.
Utterly unjustifiable levies such as unem-
ployment tax, sales tax and so on are added
as required. Under loosely-worded Acts the
clerks are allowed to order the citizen to
supply in writing every intimate detail of
his business and private concerns. If he
demurs or makes a mistake, they fight him
in the courts with his own money.
Taxation in one form or another is an
admitted necessity for carrying on the gov-
ernment of any civilised country; but tax-
ation in Australia to-day has become an
intolerable burden, not only on account of
its extent, but largely because of the per-
petual prying into business affairs and
transactions by clerks from the taxing de-
partments. Banks and business houses are
constantly harried by these inquisitors,
armed with an official demand full of threats
and bounce, and empowering them to in-
spect or impound all sorts of documents.
No country can expect to maintain a succes-
ful business system when every detail of
the affairs of a firm or individual is open
to the curiosity of any office boy who cares
to take an interest in them. Anyone with a
knowledge of the inside working of a Gov-
ernment department knows how futile are
the safeguards against unauthorised prying
into “the files.”
Admittedly, also, Customs duties are
essential as a source of revenue; but the
system which has grown up of pyramiding
one charge on another, beginning with the
wrapping-paper and packing-case, and re-
taxing each fresh total, is an unmitigated
ramp. Like the rest of the clerical army,
“the Customs” regard the public merely as a
field for exploitation. Any bright lad who
can suggest a new dodge for wringing out a
fresh charge by an ingenious misrepresenta-
tion of a loosely-worded tariff expects to
get a rise for it. The passport system, under
which any Australian who wants to go over-
sea has to tell the stoiy of his life, and
supply any details of his business and per-
sonal affairs which the tax-clerks have over-
looked. is another impudent restriction on
private liberty. A futile restriction, too,


since almost any dishonest individual can
obtain from outside specialists any kind of
passport required, in or out.
Mr. Lyons has recently stated that he
cannot afford to lose the revenue from the
present prohibitive duties on books and
journals from abroad. If Mr. Lyons would
summon up courage to face the clerical
unions and reduce the superfluous armies of
clerks to the actual needs of the country’s
business, he would save a much larger sum
than he ever will make by continuing a sys-
tem which is rendering scientific progress and
modern knowledge impossible in Australia.
As an ex-schoolmaster this should have his
personal sympathy. Also, as a citizen of
impeccable private life, and the father of a
large family, he might well revise the idiotic
system of Customs “literary” censorship,
which bars out a witty if disrespectful Aus-
tralian genius, but allows the country to be
flooded with cheap Yankee textbooks on
murder, robbery and rape.
♦
Salvation by Shuffling.
Victoria proposes to borrow a large sum
of money—seven millions is mentioned —to
be spent over a period of two years or more
in relief of unemployment. It is the old,
easy, cowardly way: we find the bill we
have inherited far too great for us to com-
fortably cany, therefore we push it on to
our children with something more added
on our own account.
The Bulletin has no affection for Mr.
Lang, but it admits freely that he is more
logical and possibly has more courage than
'almost any of these other politicians. “No,”
he says in effect, "we can’t pay to the man
whose money we have taken his interest
and to you fellows the wages, etc., you de-
mand. You mustn’t suffer, of course, so
the only thing to do is to repudiate inter-
est.” The other politicians, shivering on the
brink, say in a shocked tone that repudia-
tion is dishonest. So they evade both re-
pudiation and the readjustment of our
standards of living by going into debt; in
other words, by throwing the burden upon
the future. They don’t repudiate; they
shuffle. “If there is any repudiating to be
done, let our children do it!” they say in
as plain language as it is possible for any
body of men to use.
*
Lang Pushes on Soviet Rule.
Paying people for doing nothing, or next to
nothing, is part of the Lang system, though
it is not expressly included in the Lang
“plan.” In order to keep the basic wage
at the boom-time figure of £4 2s. 6d. a
week, plus child endowment, Mr. Lang
transferred one of the three members of the
Industrial Commission to the Supreme
Court. The Commission, being one short of
the statutory number of three, thus became
incapable of hearing applications for a
reduction of the basic wage; and there
have been other legal developments. The
result is that the two Industrial Commis-
sioners (£1974 p.a. apiece), the Deputy
Commissioner (£899 p.a.) and some of the
chairmen of conciliation committees (there
are nine at £4lOl p.a.) are enjoying a period
of well-paid leisure such as they never
dreamed of when appointed, though it is
true that Mr. Commissioner Piddington
inquired into and prepared a report on the
price of bread.
Mr. Cleary, the Chief Railway Commis-
sioner, Mr. Maddocks, chairman of the
Transport Trust, and a number of other
high officials are now to join this happy
band. For weeks past Mr. Cleary has been
reading hot attacks on his administration
penned by a Mr. Rogers, sometime of the
South Aus. Railways and the Clyde Engi-
neering Co., who was given a roving com-
mission to overhaul the Cleary regime.
Sometimes the procedure was varied, and
Mr. Cleary read hostile Ministerial com-
munications addressed to him which had
been handed to the newspapers first. One
morning last week he woke up to find that
his position and that of Mr. Maddocks had
been abolished; indeed, that Railway Com-
missioners, Metropolitan Transport Trust,
Newcastle Transport Trust, Commissioner
of Road Transport, Management Board,
Main Roads Board and Transport (Co-
ordination) Board had been wiped out with
a stroke of the pen. In their place was a
Ministry of Transport under the youngest
of the three McGirrs, with Mr. C. j. Goode
as Chief Transport Commissioner at £2400
p.a., and seven Assistant Transport Com-
missioners at £1335 p.a. each. Five of the
new Commissioners (Messrs. Goode, Harti-
gan, Dennis, Corry and Fewtrell) were sub-
ordinates of Mr. Cleary; the others include
the critical Rogers and the inevitable union
secretary.
Mr. Cleary was appointed for nine years
at £SOOO p.a., and the appointment has
nearly seven years to run. At the instance
of the Leg. Council a clause was added to
the bill which dispenses with his services
providing that he shall be compensated;
Mr. Maddocks, too. Other officers who
are being retired on the ground that they
are too old will have to be pensioned,
nominally out of the railway superannua-
tion fund; but the railway superannuation
fund has been insolvent for years. So
the public will have to pay this compen-
sation and these pensions, and it is sure to
pay in other ways for the bringing of the
whole field of transport under political con-
trol. But the blackest feature of the whole
business is that Mr. Cleary has been dis-
missed to make room for the man, Mr.
Goode, whom he dismissed on a serious
charge, published in the newspapers and in
“Hansard,” which the Government refuses
to refer to a select committee—it refuses
even to make the papers available to the
public.
♦
Two Queensland Proposals.
Queensland has before it two interesting
proposals; and its attitude towards them is
interesting, too. For some time past the
Government has been encouraging unem-
ployed men to settle on small blocks near
the larger towns; and the plan has had a
good deal of success. Now two extensions
have been suggested. The State has about
15,000 acres near Tully, which would make
fine dairy farms, in 300-acre blocks; and a
co. with timber rights in the same district
offers to build roads and do other things
necessary to open up 70,000 acres in return
for a 30 years’ lease of 30,000 acres. It
offers, further, to cut its area into 200 dairy
farms, build houses, fences, yards, etc., and
put in the requisite stock, in return for the
right to work the properties on the “halves”
system. In the south Dorman Long, the
builders of the Sydney Harbor Bridge, offer
to span the river at Brisbane, making all
approaches, and paying for all necessary
resumptions, in return for the right to
charge tolls for 40 years.
It would be a very reasonable thing to
closely overhaul the details of the pro-
posals of these two companies. What they
ask may be excessive: and that is a matter
for careful local inquiry. But the great
bulk of the opposition is not concerned with
detail at all; it is wholly concerned with
what is called “the principle of the thing.”
Now what is this “principle of the thing”?
Sydney has just acquired a bridge, built by
the State, operated by the State. But it
cannot escape a toll; on the contrary, be-
cause of the wasteful manner in which a
great part of the job was done—the result
of political direction—the toll is a heavy
burden superimposed on a special municipal
rate. The simple truth is that when the
bridge was decided on nine people out of
ten never expected to have to pay at all.
They were the happy days when, if a public
work did not pay, the loss was borne either
by taxation or by a further loan. That
happy day is gone. There are no new loans
out of which we can provide the interest on
our unprofitable undertakings.
The capitalist will provide the money
no matter who spends it. If he lends it to
us, we shall pay interest on it whether it is
profitably invested or not, and we shall go
on paying interest until the debt is satis-
fied; moreover, nobody will be much inter-
ested in seeing that the money is economi-
cally laid out and the business economically
managed. If, on the other hand, he pro-
vides the money at his own risk, then if the
scheme is a failure we don’t have to carry
the brunt of it. Moreover, there is some-
body who is keenly interested in seeing
that value is got for every penny spent in
construction, maintenance and operation.
♦
Mr. Lana; and a Dirty Rag.
Talking at the official opening of the
Sydney Show,' J. T. Lang said:—
In current American newspapers he read where
Senator Borah, when speaking in the American
Senate upon a measure to help the unemployed
there, made use of these words: “The flag of any
Government which will not protect its people is a
dirty rag that contaminates the air in which it
flies.” He hoped that the Parliaments of Australia
would abandon the other work and set themselves
determinedly to the important task of transferring
the food that was grown and the clothing and
materia] that was produced by the rural populations
to the people who needed them, so that it could
never be said of any Australian Government that its
flag was a “dirty rag that contaminated the air in
which it flew.”
It is a crooked view. The duty of Parlia-
ments is not to exploit the producer,
primary or secondary, but to protect him—
to enable him to produce at reasonably low
costs, so that he may make a decent living
and profitably extend his production, and
so give more employment. Mr. Lang will
never get the unemployed back to work by
protecting merely those who are out of
work. He will only do it by also, and par-
ticularly, protecting industry, so that it may
be encouraged to give employment.
The flag that will not protect its pro-
ducers, but permits politicians to fleece them
in order to make things easy for them-
selves, is a dirty rag that contaminates the
air in which it flies.
♦
Organised Labor Is Menaced.
The so-called Labor men who are working
for a Soviet desire a crash; but it is hard
to understand why the others, forming the
bulk of organised labor, do not busily
interest themselves in a scheme to put the
unemployed where they might at least earn
a little for themselves and have some-
thing more to look forward to.
The Bulletin has the utmost sympathy
with those leaders of Labor who are horri-
fied at the prospect of accepting less favor-
able conditions for the workers. But surely
they are not consolidating the position of
workers in ordinary jobs by maintaining
an army of unemployed. It is true that
so well is Labor organised that an army of
unemployed is not the menace to wages
and labor conditions that it was; but it
still is a menace, and already is not only
cutting into wages and conditions but is
weakening the organisation. From the
public point of view it is a very good thing
that workmen are giving far better value
for their money; from the viewpoint of
organised labor it means also that this
menace of the army of unemployed is being
actually felt; and the greater the unemployed
army becomes the greater the menace will
be. Thus far the threat has been to a
great extent staved off by the dole. But
there is a grave doubt whether the dole
can be maintained; and, in any case, while
some men settle down philosophically as
drawers of the dole, others become increas-
ingly impatient of prolonged idleness —we
had a very good illustration of that the
other day in the case of that Mr. Fearn
who got into debate in these columns with
his Furnishing Trade Union. Thousands of
idle men have been buoyed up by the
expectation that this or that plan of Mr.
Lang and the other politicians would set
things right. They are beginning to lose
hope that w T ay. Two institutions are thereby
endangered: the State has to face the risk
of a revolutionary movement; the unions
have to face the danger of wholesale break-
aways.
In such circumstances, what is the answer
of organised labor to the plea that great
numbers of these men should be lifted out
of the army of the unemployed and set
up on labor farms or settlements?
A Great Chance Missed.
When Mr. de Groot, late of the 15th
Hussars, brought off his ribbon-cutting
stunt, the State Government tried to keep
it out of the papers, and ordered it to be
cut out of the Bridge film. As the first
scheme failed, there didn’t seem to be
much point in persevering with the other,
and the picture was released. Disturbing
stories began to reach Auburn almost
immediately. It appeared that at nearly all
the movies the De Groot shadow was being
cheered, and that of the Premier, who claims
to be the idol of N.S.W., was being derided.
Chief-Secretary Gosling went along on
Wednesday afternoon, and is alleged to
have been “very much upset” by what he
saw and heard. That evening a great cloud
of policemen—some say 300 —were rushed
off in cars, with oi’ders to ban De Groot,
under Sec. 27 of the Theatres and Public
Halls Act, as a menace to “decorum and
good manners.”
As subsequent developments have shown,
the Government banned the wrong shadow.
De Groot’s sudden irruption and inglorious
departure weren’t doing Langism half as
much harm as Lang’s speech, snarled
through clenched teeth, with eyes on the
typescript, and the subsequent spectacle of
Lang gloomily cutting a retied ribbon.
But the real issue goes deeper. De Groot
gave Lang a supreme chance to do what
Australians most admire in a man. If
he had taken his little setback with a grin,
made a friendly gesture to the New Guard
enemy—already discredited by the gascon-
adings of Campbell—De Groot and his
feat would have been forgotten inside a
week. But Lang isn’t like that. He and his
officials did everything that bad temper
could suggest to injure De Groot, and, of
course, made a popular hero of him
Worse and worse, from the Government’s
point of view, the Premier proved to be a
rotten sportsman. Bad sportsmanship
ruined Billy Hughes, and it is going to help
do the same for Lang before he’s finished
with politics.
The Business of Dying.
The suicide of George Eastman, the many-
times millionaire head of the great Eastman
Kodak enterprise, after a long life of very
exceptional usefulness and public service
and private benevolence, will raise again
the question of the right of men to end
their own lives or of doctors to help them
in the process. At 78, after several years
of ill-health, he wrote a note “To my
friends. My work is done. Why wait?”
shot himself through the heart and died
almost instantly. That he was unmarried
may have had some bearing upon the case.
Apart from the possible gratification he got
from disposing of his money—he had given
away over 18 millions sterling—his life
was wholly in his work. When that was
finished by reason of his state of health,
he could see no reason for prolonging exist-
ence; and he had the courage to do what
others would do but for the lack of it.
In most cases probably it is not physical
courage that is short; it is “the dread of
something after death” that “makes cowards
of us all”—with such rare exceptions as
this philanthropic genius of Rochester.
In most cases, probably, it is not the
fear of life but of slow, painful death which
urges men, not always to the point of sui-
cide, but either to contemplate it or to
consider whether the doctor should not be
entitled to help one painlessly over the
border when the crossing is inevitable.
We have a good way to go yet, however,
before we shall find many doctors willing
to accept such a responsibility: there will
always be in the professional mind the
knowledge of human fallibility and of the
impossibility of undoing the error once life
has been deliberately ended.
In any case, the need for it grows less
and less. No branch of medicine has made'
greater progress than that which aims to
reduce pain or make the sufferer insensible
to it. Dr. Hufeland, a high authority,
writing at the end of a long professional life,
did not hesitate to declare that opium in
some form or other “is not only capable of
taking away the pangs of death, but it
imparts even courage and energy for dying.”
In “The Three Cardinal Means df the Art
of Healing,” quoted with the warmest
approval of Dr. William Munk, late Senior
Censor of the Royal College of Physicians,
it is said:—
One of the great properties of opium is that it
soothes not only corporal pains and complaints, but
affords also to the mind a peculiar energy, elevation
and tranquillity. The soothing virtue manifests itself
in the most splendid manner in relieving death in
severe cases, in effecting the euthanasia —that is,
the happy passing—which is a sacred duty and the
highest triumph of the physician.
Such progress has science made that Dr.
Munk himself wrote: “The process of
dying and the very act of death is but
rarely and exceptionally attended by those
bodily sufferings which in popular belief are
all but inseparable from it.” And the
great Dr. William Hunter, just before the
end came, whispered to his friend Dr.
Combe: “If I had strength enough to hold
a pen, I would write how easy and pleasant
a thing it is to die.”
It is always worth remembering, too,
that there are scores who have known all
the sensations of dying which it would be
possible for a person to have in actually
dying in the same circumstances. The
state of apparent death from drowning, for
example, differs only from actual death in
the possibility of reanimation under ex-
ternal treatment —one will never know
more about dying (from drowning at any
rate) than he did at the moment of insen-
sibility. And there are very many descrip-
tions of what happened during the last few
minutes of consciousness in such cases.
Always there appears to be a rush of memo-
ries; as much happens in those few seconds
as in the case of the sinner who “between
the stirrup and the ground mercy sought
and mercy found.'” “I no longer thought
of being rescued,” one wrote, “nor was I
in any bodily pain. On the contrary, my
sensations were now of rather a pleasurable
cast, partaking of that dull but contented
sort of feeling which precedes the sleep pro-
duced by fatigue.”
More often, it seems, the storm comes
not at death but at the time when it is
realised that death inevitably is near.
There is no drug in the physician’s hand to
prevent mental commotion then. But
society has largely taken the physician’s
place; for no longer are the widow and the
fatherless left at the mercy of -an uncaring
world. Apart from private benevolences, the
State has done much and will be able to do
more for these so soon as it puts its affairs
in order and ceases to maintain quite so
many able-bodied parasites.
♦-
The Australian Pound.
Dear Bulletin, —Commenting upon a
suggestion made by Professor Gregory that
the Australian pound should be stabilised at
about its present level, you asked why this
should be done. It is a question which
requires an answer. None has been given
which can be regarded as satisfactory to the
whole community, although it is quite easy
to supply one which will satisfy certain
interests.
The high exchange-rate policy, if it can
be so dignified, has proved on balance to
be a failure. The internal position . has
improved little if at all. It was confidently
asserted that the easiest way to solve the
cost problem was to reduce wages by cur-
rency depreciation through a high exchange
rate —a refinement of Mr. Theodore’s more
direct methods of inflation. This course,
however, has not turned out a success. It
is true that certain costs have been re-
ducer* by virtual repudiation of existing
contracts; but that has not carried us very
far along the road to prosperity, although
it has helped Governments to balance their
budgets. On the private side the relief
given by interest-reduction and moratorium
Acts to certain sections has been balanced
by the corresponding burdens which have
been placed on other sections. The chief
difficulty remains in spite of the high ex-
change rate.
What, then, is to be the next step? Obvi-
ously a direct reduction of costs. And in
the meantime what of the Australian
pound? Professor Gregory, when he sug-
gested the stabilisation of our pound, did
not lend the weight of his great authority
to support the idea that costs could be
lowered by manipulating the exchanges. In
his latest book he expressly indicates his
doubts about the efficacy of such supposed
remedial measures, and he advised Maori-
land not to embrace a high exchange-
rate policy. But a difficulty presents itself
in Australia. However misguided those
who inaugurated the policy of a high ex-
change rate in the belief that they were
saving the country, the Australian pound is
devalued in fact, and any serious and
immediate movement towards parity with
sterling would throw a tremendous strain on
the export industries and on the whole
economic fabric. It was this fact which no
doubt led the English economist to suggest
some sort of stabilisation. It would appear
to be unwise to make difficulties greater
than they are or need be by a hasty return
to parity; indeed, parity can only finally be
attained and maintained by reducing costs
first. Such a policy would not result in
permanent devaluation, and it is the logical
method of correcting the cardinal error
made last year without turning everything
upside down in the process.—l am, etc.,
David A. S. Campbell.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Dti'Cctovs *
u tAik/iire aei JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND:
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street,
t. .u London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
t’Oroughcmt Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts ot
the world.
_, __ _ °f General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Diamond Engagement Mings
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed fm'est-quality
blue-white gems. the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made Throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
T Vriie for a selection on approval.
1
yin,
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE
298 COLLINS STRE'
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Queensland cotton-grower is squeal-
ing about .his new tariff, too; but he can’t
get the same backing as the sugar and
tobacco men. There is an award for pick-
ing ; but some growers say they can't pay it,
wherefore they have been engaging men
(mostly Italians) to do the job at award
rates, with the chipping thrown in bucks her.
This has “put them bad” with the A.W.U.,
so they’ve got to do" all their oavii squealing,
and it probably won’t be very loud. Which
makes it all the more necessary that Par-
liament should be dead sure it’s right before
it does anything in connection with this
industry.
Dc Valera says his Government will drop
the oath of allegiance and won’t pay the
land annuities. If so, his people will lose
their big trade with the Saxon in butter,
beef, bacon, pork and eggs, and if they would
rather lose it than abandon the De Valera
plan, which so greatly resembles Lang's,
‘Shure, an’ y’re not hitting him. Let me
have a tur-rrn.”
Australia won’t mind filling the gap. Aus-
tralia has plenty of beef, butter and eggs,
and it could soon furnish the pig-meat if
required. There are boars and sows enough,
and, as a Russian gentleman interested in
the Five-year Plan points out, “pigs pro-
duce meat faster than any kind of livestock,
and give more meat per unit of fodder than
cattle do.”
Stevens, deputy-leader of the N. S. Wales
Opposition, is reported as having told an
audience at West Maitland that “Australia
is plagued Avitli too many Parliaments.”
The truth is that among the Federations of
the world Australia stands out as the one
with the fewest State Legislatures. In that
respect, compared with the U.S.A., Mexico,
Brazil and Argentina at one end of the list
down • to Switzerland at. the other, it is a
freak; aud Lang, his broken bank, his public-
debt stoppages and his general dominance are
conspicuous results of the freakishness. But
the i-easonable subdivision of Australia, with
its State debts, and its State-owned railways,
and its crooked railways gauges, is a very ,big
undertaking, and it is easier to shirk it
than to confront it.
_ The late British Labor Government de-
cided that the pound notes of pacifism prof-
fered by eminent statesmen the world over
a few years ago were worth the full 20
shillings, so it cut down the Singapore base
estimates from seven and three-quarter mil-
lions to five millions. Experts told it
that this would make the project, valueless
for defence purposes. Since Asia has shown
that the old Adam is still flourishing
vigorously under the top-hat and the frock-
coat of the diplomat, there is renewed
interest in the base, and the sadly disillu-
sioned MacDonald is hoav contemplating hav-
ing the full contract fulfilled by 1935.
In any ordinary sort of country a mere
State Premier doesn’t inaugurate a national
work if the Sovereign or the Governor-General
or the Prime Minister can be got. In the case
of the Harbor Bridge opening Isaac Isaacs
was available, and Isaacs is the first Austra-
lian-born G.-G. Lang, on the other hand, is
only one of six existing State Premiers,
nor did he originate the work. He is, in
a political sense, an undischarged bankrupt,
being the only State Premier under whose
control the Government Savings Bank went
broke and didn’t open again, and the
only State Premier who has defaulted. The
Bridge might have died unfinished if the
Commonwealth hadn’t found the money with
which to patch up his public-debt default.
Lang’s Agent-General, who reported the
discovery in London of a sort of Gunpowder
Plot to throw Lang over the Bridge during
the opening ceremony, sticks to the story
with which he froze the blood of the Trades
Hall. No Australian Premier has been
thrown over a bridge yet, and his feelings
when he was half-way down would be shock-
ing to think of. Apparently even boiled
horses wouldn’t drag from Willis the name
if his informant, but it is suspected of being
Smith.
Re Valera had lots of admirers at the
Lang faction’s Easter conference. “He
refuses to take the oath of allegiance,” saia
an excited delegate from St. George, adding,
after the applause had died down, that “pro-
perty in Ireland” had been “stolen from the
Irish people.” Other gentlemen delivered
“violent speeches against the Empire,” and
Davies, the Minister of Education, who is
Welsh, was ordered to abolish Empire Day
celebrations or it would be the worse for
him. Conference was only calmed by the
arrival of Lang, who was described by Garden
as “the greatest Premier any country ever
had.” Perhaps Lang and De Valera really
found this country, and Captain Cook is a
myth.
With a general election in sight—-it is
probably not more than 14 weeks, off —Vic.
Opposition-leader Argyle has been speaking
a piece to liis constituents. Convinced that
Victorians arc taxed to the hilt already,
£28,235,000 or £l5 13s. 4d. a head of popula-
tion being extracted in a year in Federal,
State and municipal taxes, direct and in-
direct, Argyle declared strongly against any
additional levy. Without exactly rebuking
Menzies, M.L.A., president of the U.A.P., for
urging drastic service retrenchment. Argyle
said it was impossible to sack teachers,
police, warders and the like, but he pro-
fessed he could see other ways of economis-
ing substantially. Possibly the group known
as the Young Nats, (in whose estimation
Menzies is a demigod) will be more trouble-
some to Argyle in his bid for the Premier-
ship than the Hogans and Allans.
Lang had a go at Lord Kylsant wheu in-
troducing the bill designed to benefit the bo'ss
of “Smith’s Weekly.” “Companies are
living on their fat,” shouted the tin-hare
Premier, “as was shown in the notorious
case in which Lord Kylsant despoiled the
shareholders in the shipping companies of
which he was principal director.” This may
be so; still, Sydney knows a man who issued
a false prospectus to the people of N. S.
Wales and despoiled shareholders in Aus-
tralia, Unlimited, and broke a bank. And
this person is living on the fat of the land,
whereas Kylsant is doing time.
Vic. publicans paid £68,656 less in fees
(6 p.c. on liquor purchases) during their
financial year, which ends in March, than
for the previous twelvemonth. Taking
grocers’ spirit licenses and the like into
account the fall was £77,712 —23.31 p.c.
Stress is laid on the figures by the Licenses
Reduction Board in its annual report. Apart
from the general inability to spend so much
“Stalled off by the charge of 4d. for crossing the
Sydney Harbor Bridge by tram-car, tens of thou-
sands of people from the Northern Suburbs are
walking across it to and from their work.”
TRAMWAY CHIEF: “Sire, the people are
walking to their work, and deliberately
ruining our tramway finances . What
are your highness’s orders?”
SIRE LANG: “Hamstring ’em!”
in bars, increases, in Federal taxes have had
the effect of raising the price of drinks and
consequently augmenting the amount of the
State levy, which from July 1 will be 4 p.c.
instead of 6 p.c. A loss of £70,000 in revenue
will result. The two State Houses (members
of which were well canvassed) thought fit
to run through the reduction measure in
the dying hours of last session, and the cold-
tea contingent is still furious.
“What’s the matter, old Bird o’ Freedom?”
“They wouldn’t let me have a sales tax.”
“What about taking mine?”
Gosling, the Minister of Tin Hares, to the
cinema-theatre managers on Wednesday
evening:—
Having witnessed the film depicting the unautho-
rised action of a man named Captain de Groot in
cutting the ribbon in connection with the Sydney
Harbor Bridge celebrations, I have decided in the
public interest to prohibit the exhibition in any
place in N.S.W. of any part of the picture showing
de Groot.
Lang’s newspaper “explains” :
On Monday morning Mr. Gosling viewed the picture,
and, holding thie view that the 'Government had nothing
to hide, allowed the incident to be shown. This
order would not have been interfered with had a
certain element not taken advantage of a chance to
inflame audiences. The tension at some of the
shows became so great that the Chief Secretary
feared an outbreak of violence.
The “inflaming of audiences” and the “great
tension” were as imaginary as that “Fascist”
attack on the “Labor Daily” office before the
1925 Commonwealth election. What hap-
pened was that the Minister of Tin Hares
thought the thing would tend to the glori-
fication of Lang and the confusion of his
enemies, and found instead that nine-tenths
of the people were cheering De Groot and
laughing at Lang. In a way it all shows
what living under a Soviet would be like.
Sydney has been pleasantly diverted by
the proceedings of the University Labor Club,
largely dissatisfied teachers and ambitious
young lawyers. The club did some spouting
in the Bast Sydney by-election, having to
rub shoulders now and then with exceedingly
tough-looking specimens, and one of its mem-
bers has been putting his name to expensive
newspaper advertisements for Lang and his
cause, ending with the slogan “Lang is
Right.” But the comrades don’t seem enthu-
siastic about the new concern. Applying for
recognition at the Easter conference, they
were told that two members might be admitted
as delegates, but “each must sign the pledge
to work for the State A.L.P. candidates, and
join an A.L.P. branch within three months.
And members of the group were not to be
allowed to participate in selection ballots.”
The report ends there, but an unofficial ver-
sion is that the young gentleman to whom
this curt decision was communicated at once
salaamed, and then bowed himself out back-
wards, murmuring at intervals “Your com-
mands shall be obeyed—Lang is Right.”
The mild Hindu continues to shout for
the blessings of liberty, but he remains rather
unintelligible. He camp i.nto the land from
parts unknown about 3500 or possibly 4000
years ago, and what horrid things he did
to the previous inhabitants aren’t fully
known. But there are about 60,000,000 of
what are supposed to be the aborigines still
in existence—known as the Untouchables be-
cause of the immense superiority affected by
the caste-bound intruders. The brightest
time in the existence of the Untouchables
was after the white man began to pervade
the country, he being a rather reasonable
individual as compared with the caste-ridden
Hindu. The Mohammedans broke into India
about 930 years ago, and though compara-
tively newcomers they number now nearly
a fourth of the population. The position of
Gandhi and co. is that they want to be recog-
nised as the rightful and original and wholly
intolerant owners of India, and thfe British
. owners don’t feel like putting them in pos-
session.
Vic. County Court Judge Foster, who
figured in Labor politics before his eleva-
tion to the bench, had to deal with the
case of a plumber’s laborer who claimed
£5OO damages from his former employer
under the Workers’ Compensation Act. Com-
plainant broke a muscle in the calf of a
leg while wheeling a barrowful of earth on
June 2, 1930. and still felt the pain, he said.
A medical witness suggested that the pain
would continue as long as the victim went
on getting liis £2 a week. “I’m sure it has
become a £2-a-week pain,” his Honor said.
Case dismissed.
A locomotive was imported years ago
because it cost, according to the price-list,
£lOO less than the Australian-made article.
And it would have cost £lOO less if it had
been paid for with our own produce. But
it may cost £l5OO more because the money
was borrowed; and the interest has to be
considered; also the increased interest and
expenses of renewing the loan (nobody
dreamt of meeting the loan when it fell due) ;
further the exchange if we had to send the
interest “home” instead of adding it to the
debt at “home.” The Australian importing-
Freetrade policy is a bastard imitation of
the British one. As soon as J. Bull was faced
with the necessity of borrowing abroad to
keep his trade balance straight-—a thing
Australia has been doing for years—he
dropped Freetrade like a red-hot curse.
The A.L.P. conference gave N. S. Wales
an idea of what it is in for if the Leg. Coun-
cil goes. Parliament, as Dicey has said, can
do anything but make a man a woman or a
woman a man ; and in N. S. Wales, under
the A.L.P. and without a chamber of review,
these vast powers would be transferred to
someone like Jock Garden. This person,
who has never been able to get into an Aus-
tralian Parliament, had the matchless hide
to say that Lang was “all right,” but that
some of his Ministers were “not doing their
jobs” and, inferentially, would have to be
dismissed. Once the Council goes, if by any
calamitous chance it does, the Government
will become Parliament, and will have to
agree to any loony proposal suggested by a
fluent alien with an inferiority complex,
under penalty of being put on the rack.
With a substantial State contribution to
the cost, £30,000, a ward for intermediate
cases was erected at Alfred Hospital, Mel-
bourne, and was “opened” by Premier Hogan
in August. Funds having given out, it is still
unequipped and unoccupied. No wonder the
proposed loan for unemployed-relief works
has set people asking what projects are pro-
posed, whether they will be used when con-
structed, and whether they will ever be
self-supporting.
The two old war-horses George Wise, ex-
P.M.G., and Alec Peacock. Assembly
Speaker, were mainly responsible for the re-
jection of a motion submitted to the A.N.A.
conference for reduction of office salaries.
Wise said he had no time for the employer
who could pay the higher standard of wages
and took advantage of a depression to re-
duce, and the A.N.A. should set a good
example.
Fortified by recommendations made by two
committees of citizens, Ministers and State
members, the Hogans will ask the Vic. Par-
liament, which is to resume on April 6, to
authorise an unemployment works scheme in-
volving an outlay of £7,394,000. It is pro-
posed to borrow £2,000,000 in 1932-33 and
£1,500,000 in 1933-34; the balance to be pro-
“Victoria proposes to borrow and squeeze seven
millions to carry out a plan for restoring prosperity.”
“Here, boy, you pay this bill for me when
you grow up.”
vided by unemployment taxes. An advisory
board of five citizens is to pick the works,
which will include “agriculture, forestry,
fisheries and gold-mining” items to cost half
a million. Of course, consent of the Loan
Council to the borrowing half of the scheme,
“at the rate of interest conforming to the
Premiers’ plan,” is to be sought.
“Groper”: Times have changed since
Lang was Treasurer of a Labor Govern-
ment in 1921. The Ministry was known to
be considering new schemes for raising the
wind, and I wrote to him intimating that
I had a valuable suggestion to offer. By
return of post I was asked to call —and did.
I had no sooner got launched on my scheme
when Lang cut me short with “Oh! yon
mean premium bonds! The people wouldn't
stand for that. That’s a lottery !”


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Kyn”: A bootmender, charged at Mal-
vern (Vic.) court the other day with unlaw-
ful possession of two bicycle chains sus-
pected of having been stolen, is convinced that
the beaks who heard his case have no sport-
ing instincts. A witness was called to show
that the. accused had bought from him bike
accessories, including chains, some months
before, and half the Jay Reas were so im-
pressed that they favored an acquittal. The
other half were for a conviction, whereupon
the chairman announced that there was a
deadlock, and that there would be an
adjournment for 14 days over the Easter
holidays. Then the cobbler cut in. Couldn’t
they toss a coin? He wanted to get the tiling
over, and he “would just as soon the case
went one way as the other.” But all he got
for thus trying to oil and whirl the wheels
of justice was a stern admonition from the
chairman,to hold his tongue.
“Spare Corp.”: The approach of the
Passover (later than usual this year)
invariably led to an increased popularity of
the Jewish religion in the A.I.F. Even in
France it was usual to grant leave to
soldiers of the faith to enable them to spend
the feast-time in the homes which were
thrown open to them, and railway warrants
were made available also. Naturally the
chance for a holiday appealed to Gentiles,
too; the most flagrant attempt to snare
undue privileges which I recall occurred
when amongst those who lined up with the
leave squad was one named Casey. The
sergeant-major jocularly challenged him.
“Oh, I thought you said ‘Fall out any man
with a Jewish face,’ ” returned Casey boldly.
•.;= * >l=
“Cave C.” : Touching the Maorilander who
got a divorce on the ground that his wife
had been in the habit of
taking the cat to bed
with her (B. 16/3/’B2),
a Newcastle (N.S.W.)
lady who appeared in the
Sydney Divorce Court
last week had an even
more harrowing talc to
tell. She deposed that
her husband, a dog-
fancier, had insisted on
taking greyhounds to bed
with him on at least
three occasions. Whether the long dog <
had been trained to the pursuit of the
tin hare and were liable to “hunt in dreams”
did not appear, but even without that one
features her lot as harder than that of the
cat-fancying lady’s consort.
“Chevroford” : Campbell Copelin, the actor,
who made a first-class box-office attraction
of “As Husbands Go” at Melbourne King’s
by his amazingly realistic interpretation of
a drunk, has further distinguished himself
with an aeroplane exploit full of sensation
and replete with mystery. A longshore sea-
man going to work at Port Melbourne the
other morning heard cries coming from some
bushes on a golf course, and was astonished
to find the mummer lying in agony alongside
an aeroplane damaged to the extent of £3OO.
In hospital subsequently Copelin was un-
able to give a coherent explanation of how
lie got into the mess. Aero Club officials at
Essendon found the machine had been taken
from its hangar during the night. The wings
had been folded, and whoever borrowed the
’plane had the job of getting it out, unfold-
ing the wings and securing them with four
bolts apiece, a difficult task. Only one bolt
in each wing had been secured, ,so Copelin
apparently flew through the night for several
hours with the machine in this state. It
would be a remarkable feat even for an
experienced flier, but Copelin, although he
had had some lessons a few months ago, had
not won his certificate. The throttle was
open, so that he couldn’t have intended
to land. Copelin, whose injuries are not
serious, though they will keep him in hos-
pital for some months, distinguished him-
self last year by falling out of the Adelaide
express when it was travelling at 30 m.p.h.
He was on his way to a shop at the Mel-
bourne Comedy in “A Warm Corner,” and
he hired a ’plane and arrived on time for
the opening night. He came to Australia
several years ago for station experience, and
after a varied life in Queensland, during
which he helped to salvage a wrecked .ship,
he found his true forte as an excellent inter-
preter of comedy roles with J.C.W.
“Bargee”: Erasmus Darwin, the grand-
father of the great scientist, may have peered
into the future and foreseen Sydney’s Harbor
Bridge (B. 23/3/’32), but was there ever
a prophecy wider of the mark than that
which linked “bright canals” to “solid roads”
as a means by which this continent would
be developed? Yet it looked a reasonably
sound prediction in 1788, about the middle
of the period when canal-hu.ilding was one
of the most flourishing of British industries.
The Bridgewater Canal, the first of such big
enterprises, was opened in 1761, and in the
next 60 years England had equipped herself
OUR LANGUAGE AGAIN.
JACK: “I’m afraid she’s a bit of a mess.”
JILL: “Well, you can’t blame me. I told you I was
going to reverse, and you told me to go ahead."
with over 8000 miles of artificial wateiwajs.
Erasmus belonged to the generation which
regarded canals as the best method of anni-
hilating distance and which couldn t foresee
railways and other means of locomotion. lo
him they probably represented the highest
type of scientific achievement. And even Ins
far more distinguished grandson grew up in
much the same tradition, though lie lived
long enough to grow out of it. One of his
last remarks about the future of Australia
was tinged with pessimism. He didn t see
how the country could be effectively
developed without canals, and in the absence
of rivers he surmised that the difficulties
of building canals would be stupendous. Yet
Australia has managed to worry along with-
out them. Has it ever had a canal worth
mentioning or felt the lack of one !
“Bert the Carpenter”: The old-time Cor-
nish miner, whom Oswald Pryor portrays
so faithfully, was the world’s champion leg-
puller. Once while waiting
for a building to start, I was
offered a job as offsider to
an old Cousin Jack who was
quarrying the stone for the
masons. Jan handed me the
jack-liammer and held the
drill, with an apprehensive
look at his hands. I had
hardly delivered a dozen
strokes when he stopped me
and asked me which mines I
had worked in. When told
that I had never worked un-
derground or beaten a drill
before he expressed incredu-
lity. “Dost beat her as well
as good old miner, boay,” he
kept repeating, and I must
have swung tkat hammer for
fully two hours before I real-
ised that I was doing all the
hard work while he sat on
a bag of straw and encour-
aged me. 1 never forgot it,
and later, when I had the
job of building a bridge with
another Cousin Jack as mate,
I resolved to get in first.
After admiring my com-
panion’s physique, I sug-
gested that he would not
need any help to hump the
timbers into position; he
could do it easily single-handed while I
did the setting out and sawing. He gave me
a hard look, then growled: “Worked up
Munta w T ay. have ’ee? Well, laad, never
mind how strong I be; just ’ee catch holt
o’ other end o’ timber and help carry ’un.”
And I had to.
“F.D.S.” : Wealthy philanthropists, bowed
down with the weight of years and money
and wearying even of well-doing, have com-
mitted suicide before George Eastman (R.
28/3/’32). Some 40 years ago one of the
most opulent of English dukes went out by
his own hand. There are venerable bishop
and deans and bank-
ers (anything but em-
barrassed ones) and
eminent Judges and
distinguished military
commanders and mas-
sive scholars (I can
recall an Oxford proc-
tor who hanged him-
self), all of whom
have disregarded the
canon against self-
slaughter. Most of
them were charitably
accounted insane and
probably were in some
degree. But in all the
grisly list of what are
called memorable suicides. I think that the
strangest was that of a lad of 9, son of a
South Shields (England) tailor, who cut
liis throat efficaciously some quarter of a
century ago. It is difficult to conceive of a
youngster thoroughly tired of life at that
age—and the jury didn’t find insanity in his
case.
“Clerk”: A sensible development which
has followed the appointment of an Austra-
lian Governor-General has been the quiet
disappearance of the imposing roll of red
carpet previously laid down on railway plat-
forms for the passage of exalted feet to and
from State carriages. Isaac Isaacs has made
it quite clear that he doesn’t want to walk
on the carpet, and doesn’t want to see it
laid down when he arrives at Spencer-street.
William Hill Irvine, Vic.’s Lieut.-Gov.,
has concurred, and his 100 ft. roll of red
carpet (they had one each) has accompanied
the G.-G.’s into the .seclusion of the station
cloakroom. (Contrary to general belief, the
carpet-laying idea is more popular in demo-
cratic America than anywhere else. Big
Yankee rail cos. flatter their customers by
laying down tastefully-colored carpets, 100 ft.
long by Oft. wide, before the departure of
their crack trains. The Pennsylvania co.
uses no fewer than 31 different rolls of
carpet for this purpose.
“R. Volt”: Newspaper readers in three
capitals were able to see De Groot saving
Mr. Lang from the trouble of opening the
Bridge within a few hours of that important
function. The Federal Government picture-
gram service brought the photographs to Mel-
bourne, and they were simultaneously broad-
cast to Adelaide and Brisbane. In Adelaide
and Brisbane the Radiovision Co. had instru-
ments installed in the actual offices of the
newspapers.
“Matanui”: When Ratana, latest of the
Maori prophets, began to get a solid follow-
ing, denominational complications followed.
In one pah all the Maoris had been C. of E.
till Ratana diverted half of them to the new
faith. The ’verts pointed out that they had
helped build the Anglican church, and wanted
to know why they shouldn’t still use it. It
was agreed that there was something in the
claim; accordingly the whole village set
to work with saws, hammers and chisels,
cut the church in half, and set up the Ratana
section well away from the other. In
another pah the Anglicans objected to the
Ratanaites burying their dead in the Anglican
cemetery, and feeling was so strong that a
fight took place at the gates during a funeral.
A solution of this knotty question was found
by giving the Prophet’s followers a separate
gate to the sa'mo burying-ground.
“Lord Luvus” : Time was when Melbourne
could claim to possess a bridge with the
largest span if not in the world at least
in the “colonies.” This was Prince’s Bridge,
flung in one hop across the mighty Yarra.
There was only one single span to beat it
and that was the main span of London
Bridge, ivhich exceeded it by 24 inches only.
As befitted the occasion (Nov.. 1850), there
were great rejoicings and all who could
afford it got drunk.
HIS FAMILY HISTORY.
THE PARSON (filling up a marriage form) :
“Your name?”
THE BRIDEGROOM: “Thomas John Undertop.
PARSON: “Your age?”
’GROOM: “Twenty-eight.”
PARSON: “Bachelor?”
THOMAS J OHN: “No, I was, but I’m back
livin’ with mother."
EASTER, 1932.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now another Easter slumbers with its mani-
fold back-numbers,
All its shadowy predecessors, nineteen
hundred at the least.
Father Time has turned his keys on yet
another pleasant season
When the bonds of Lent were loosened tor
the periodic feast.
Now the hot-cross bun’s digested, and the
sale of eggs arrested,
Presents for ingenuous childhood that the
shopkeepers provide ;
But I find no trace of healing influences
o’er us stealing.
Where is the fraternal feeling one connects
with Eastertide?
Now the Jap with warlike clamor lines his
cohorts up to hammer
His requirements for expansion into tin*
distracted Chow ;
All remonstrances are fruitless and Geneva’s
efforts bootless
To discourage them from scrapping—both
are Pagans, anyhow.
Now Hibernia sees an era opening up of
De Valera,
Years of peaceful effort flouted, Britain
once again defied,
All the sores and wounds of yesteryear again
to smart and fester —
A lugubrious access’ry of the blessfed
Eastertide.
Now doth Lang, with rancor raging, give
his precious Plan a staging,
Telling Lyons he may whistle for the
million that he’s owed ;
Now the decks are cleared for action and
the air is foul with faction,
And it looks we’re booked to> travel on a
rough and rasping road.
PRACTICE MATCHES DON’T COUNT.
“How many times have you been engaged, Dicky?"
“Only twice really—not counting holiday affairs, of course.”
Aren’t there troubles roundabout us, menaces
enough, without us
Snarling threats at one another whom no
boundaries divide?
Where’s the brotherly affection which one’s
early recollection
Makes a suitable complexion for the good
old Eastertide?
Now another Easter presses past us, fades
and evanesces,
Marks the changing of the seasons as it
lobs along its way—
Goddess, this, of Spring they taught ’em
overseas, but here it's Autumn,
Which is equally congenial, I for one
make bold to s.ay.
Now the Church has had its innings and
the bells’ melodious dinnings
Send no more their cheerful echoes over
town and countryside,
Where’s the brotherly affection which bene-
volent reflection
Always schedules in connection with the
blessed Eastertide?
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Euna”: Improvident marriages? A few
years ago a Maoriland clergyman officiated
at the wedding of a youthful couple who
were unattended by friends or neighbors.
In the vestry afterwards he was adjusting
ins lace to the benevolent expression that
goes with the acceptance of a fee when the
bridegroom nervously cleared his throat and
got m first. “Excuse me, Mister,” he said,
"but could you lend us a cuppl6r bob?” The
st agjAred parson then learned that the happy
couple literally hadn’t a penny in the world,
and were depending on him for sufficient to
pay their railway fare on their surprise
honeymoon journey to mother’s. He onened
a handy charity box and silently obliged the
groom.
* * *
Jeapies’ ; An interesting phenomenon is
I 1 assiduity with which some rich Svdnev-
ites adopt inanities from Britain. Early in
century’ for example, England began to
. k of the Marlborough House set as
■ ' S, fa t , lts rnembers had plenty of money,
and they dressed and looked like it. “Smart”
was the right word for those leisured, per-
fectly-groomed, empty-headed hedonists Pre-
sently the idea reached Sydney. Smart Sets
soon appeared in every
city, suburb and back-
blocks town. I once
belonged to a coun-
try Smart Set which
included a solicitor and
a dentist (both with
rasping Australian
twangs) and a seedy,
unsuccessful stock-
SPEAKING IMPARTIALLY.
“His wife deserves a better husband than
she’s got.”
“Well, to be quite candid, I think she’d be
wasting her time trying to catch mine.”
and-station agent, who talked with patrician
scorn of canaille like shopkeepers and chem-
ists —particularly when he was wearing his
imitation diamond pin. Shortly before the
war Mayfair acquired a Younger Set, a
reaction against the ageing Edwardian Smart-
setters. Immediately a rash of Younger Sets
bioko out all over the fair face of Sydney.
\\ e have them still in hundreds. I noticed
a newspaper reference the other day to the
tVoollooraooloo Younger Set. And now the
' Sun ’ and “D.T.” have unearthed Society’s
plight Young Things—or, colloquially.
' B.Y.T. s.” I saw something of the original
Bright Young Things in London three years
ago. They cultivate artists, journalists and
the like; talk pictures, music, the drama and
literature; write novels, poems and plays
(like the Waughs and Noel Coward) ; sculp
and compose (like George Lambert’s boys),
and generally lead the intellectual life on
cheery lines. Sydney’s moneyed youths have
plenty of worthy qualities. The lads make
good surfers and golfers, shrewd lawyers,
salesmen, etc., and the lasses are all that
the prospective wives of such men should
SUCH A PITY TO WASTE THEM!
"But vot makes you tink you vould like to
play der violin?”
"Everybody says I’ve got such beautiful arms.”
bo. But “bright”—no. The word is as
absurd as “smart” was in reference to their
dowdy parents. The outer suburbs are
already acquiring nests of B.Y.T.’s, and the
country towns are sure to follow. Oddly
enough, these fatuities always come to light
in N. S. Wales; never, to any extent, in
Victoria.
* *
“Mallet” : A few weeks ago, after he had
been committed for trial at the Cue inquest,
a local newspaper described “Snowy”
Kowles (since sentenced to death) as “easily
the most popular man ever held on a murder
charge in Westralia.” Friends and well-
wishers brought fruit
and tobacco to the
train, it was men-
tioned, and insisted on
shaking hands with
him before he went on
what looks like his
last railway journey.
However atrocious the
crime charged against
him, he was young and
well set-up, and there
was always a doubt of
his guilt till the Judge
donned the black cap.
Which recalls that
Westralia had a very
dashing, debonair
young murderer 30
years ago, and strenu-
ous efforts were made
to save him from the
scaffold. He was a
y onng Frenchman,
mixed up with the
white-slave t r a ffi c.
The murder for which
he paid the penalty
was the aftermath of
a vinous picnic, with
little provocation to
explain it. But the
chief killer was quite
a handsome young
man despite his abom-
inable vocation, and his fate evoked a lot
of sympathy. He was even permitted to
marry his mistress (like Colt, the American
i murderer celebrated in the “Bon Gaultier
\ Ballads”) before he left the condemned cell
for the last time, y
/ * * * -Y
“Binduli”: Rarely have Australian Pre-
miers, in comparatively recent times at all
events, had any need to include personal
violence, about which Mr. Lang’s friends and
rsupporters are apparently growing so appre-
hensive, among the risks to which their posi-
tion exposes them. Probably the last
occasion when there was anything in the
nature of hustling or horseplay was in the
so-called “Kalgoorlie riot” of 1898, when feel-
ing ran high over the alluvial troubles, and
Bigjohn Forrest, who was visiting the gold-
fields, refused to address an obviously hos-
tile meeting on the burning topic. The
Ministerial party was subsequently escorted
to the railway train through a demonstrat-
ing crowd, and in the dust-up the head of
the Government received a poke in the ribs
with a pick-handle—though some insisted it
was his flustered secretary’s umbrella that
he mistook for one—before the shelter of
the train was gained. There, was a great
to-do over the episode, but the scores of
sympathetic telegrams expressing horror at
the “outrage” in the most unbalanced lan-
guage—all of them published in next morn-
ing's papers—helped to relieve the strain,
some of them being irresistibly comic. Several
exuberant sympathisers offered to send local
volunteers to the Premier’s assistance,
and “My-God-I-am-proud-of-yoU” Maitland
Brown, a coastal magistrate, compressed his
lacerated feelings into a verse of Macaulay:
And how can man die better
Than facing fearful odds
For the ashes of his fathers
And the temples of his gods?
The relevance of the last two lines was not
apparent to anybody, probably not even the
sender himself, and poor old Maitland, who
was a really, good magistrate, never quite
lived down his quotation from Horatius.
“C.Q.”: A Vic. politician re-
cently asked a Labor man whether
he expected there would be trouble
in Collingwood, Footscray and
oilier of the industrial suburbs of
Melbourne. _ “No,” was the reply; ‘‘if there
is trouble it will come from ‘respectable’
suburbs like Kew, Elsternwick and Malvern.”
lhere is a good deal of truth in the analysis.
.1 he out-of-works of Collingwood are com-
paratively used to unemployment. Some of
them are doing better on the dole than they
ever did at casual jobs. The jobless people
m the more expensive suburbs have never
previously _ known their present insecurity.
They are inheritors of a debt-paying tradi-
tion, and most of them have had or have
houses and other property which are slowly
slipping out of their hands. It is an inter-
esting fact that many of the leading jobs on
unemployed organisations are held by
members of what the Communist calls the
bourgeoisie. _ The central executive of the
unemployed _in Melbourne has on its staff
a colonel with a distinguished war record.
Gad”: I have no doubt I shall invite a
storm of criticism by frankly admit-
ting that I rather sympathise with the bag-
man who asked for hair oil on his dole
rations in a North Coast town (P».
16/3/32). For impulses such as these you
have to look deeper than on the surface. I
met a young bagman once who took his
entire ration out in Lifebuoy soap and
aspirin. He was tired of trying to spin
his rations out for a week; he knew that he
would have to beg at least three days out
of the seven, and he reasoned that he might
just as well beg the whole lot. I myself have
often gone into a store on a Thursday fcel-
ln£ that it was futile to make a decision.
And there is a human side to it, too. A
lot of these young bagmen go to local dances.
They have a few decent clothes —and hair
oil does the rest. Isn’t the occasional crav-
ing for a little female companionship as in-
sistent and as natural as hunger itself?
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The mystery animal which
has been terrorising the good people of Bright
and Yackandandah (Vic.) has not been seen
by the imaginative eyes of late homecomers
for some time, but the stories about its
appearance and exploits continue to provide
a topic of conversation, and many citizens
still find good reasons for staying" at home
after nightfall. One theory is that it is a
survival of prehistoric times which has
hitherto remained unknown, to science in the
lofty and unexplored fastnesses of Australia’s
backbone. Fuel has been added to the bon-
fire of conjecture by the death of tlie 21-
year-old drover William Nutall, who was
the last person to be attacked by the crea-
ture. The superstitious have no difficulty
in connecting his death with the animal,
although what he succumbed from was in-
juries received when his horse was struck bv
the bumper-bars of a motor-car.
* *
“Scindia” : Described as Britain’s oldest
soldier, Troop-Sergeant-Major John Stratford
died recently at 102. He saw 41 years’ ser-
vice with the 14th Light Dragoons, later the
14th Hussars and now the 14/20th Hussars,
including the two Sikh wars and the Indian
Mutiny. The old man’s pride was that he
was the last survivor of the long-forgotten
cavalry action, at Ramnugger in 1848.
between the Sikhs and British, which was
considered quite an affair in those long-ago
days. His old regiment, by the way, is
known to this day as the “Threes About”
from a strategic retirement to the rear it
is said to have executed at Chillianwallah.
with the result that the P. 8.1. got it in the
neck. That was over 80 years ago, but to
this day it is inadvisable to use the expres-
sion “threes about” within hearing of the
regiment unless you have a good start and
a rare turn of foot.
* * *
“DjC.”: It has been stated that mosli.
which has figured in the accounts of several
Sydney police raids, is of Maltese origin.
Actually, it is the Jewish name for faro. One
advantage of the game from the gambler's
viewpoint is that a punter may bet when, as
little, or as high as he likes, and he has
only to beat one man—the banker. Of all
card games mosli lends itself best to a
system, but knowing the inherent weakness
of all systems the men who run the games
encourage the idea. Writer saw a system
crank back a three, doubling his money each
time it lost. It cost him £4OO. Another
player followed it up and went broke also.
Thinking it was about time that the three
started to win, a well-known Sydney horse-
owner took it on, and w r as also cleaned out.
The bank scored on the three 3S times in
succession.
“Bogaduck” : No country ever had better
colonists than S.A.’s German settlers; unlike
the average Southern European, they came
to stay, and I doubt if one in a thousand
ever went back to the Fatherland. But
the older folk were always slow and stolid,
and the characteristics cling. Up to 20 years
ago you could still see German women pulling
garden ploughs while the men did the steer-
ing, and even to-day the idea, of labor-saving
devices for the womenfolk makes very slow
headway. Near Lyndoch is a high hill, and
when I. had my bees in the district I rode
over to it; stopping at a farm at the foot
I asked if I could leave the prad there while
I climbed to the top. A typical old German
cocky readily gave permission, and rumbled
“So you go up to see der view, eh? It iss
ver’ goot.” But when I asked what could
be seen he didn’t know—he had never climbed
it. I suggested he must be a newcomer and
lie stared in surprise. “Yoost come here!
Yhy, mine parents bring me as a lad, vhen
dey moves down from Tanunda 50 years
ago !” But against this Teutonic phlegma-
tism you must put the fact that their farms
can be identified a mile off by the neat,
solid construction of everything, the trees
planted for breaks and shelter, the garden
where they grow all their own fruit and
vegetables, and the thorough way in which
the land is worked. Also let it be known
that the number of people on the dole who
bear German names is microscopic.
THE SEQUENCE.
TEACHER: "Yes, go on, Tommy. After the horse comes the motor-car, and [prompting]
TOMMY (whose father has a car): “Instalment man, Miss.”
BALLADE OF MISLAID LAUGHTER
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘M. Strowski, a French critic, complains that
modern man has almost forgotten how to laugh. He
is always as solemn as a Pope, a king or an execu-
tioner.”
W here has it vanished, the loud guffaw
One heard so oft in the days of old,
The jovial soul’s deep-toned “Haw Haw,”
The tinkle and ripple of mirth that rolled
Whenever a merry yarn was told
Across the teacups or over the beer ?
me! but the world grows grey and cold
Where is the laughter of yesteryear?
A Pope or a king must envisage awe;
A smile is all that his lips may hold.
I he Judges grave who expound the law
Must keep for reasons manifold
™heir risible faculties controlled.
Ine hangman’s face must be dour and drea
The sexton’s, too, when the bell is tolled!
'•'it where is the laughter of yesteryear?
Is there more to sadden and less to draw
The peals that rang in the tones that
trolled ?
Are we doomed to grow like the Veddalis?
Pshaw!
The earth’s still gracious with green and
gold.
P»ut where is the burst of glee so bold
1 hat was Bill’s, or Lalage’s, silvery-clear?
Has he turned a stoic and she a scold?
Where is the laughter of yesteryear?
* * l jSj i UP, my friend of the lantern jaw!
Ihe longest lane has a turning near.
Day follows night and frost ends in thaw.
But where is the laughter of yesteryear?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


POWER OF THE PENNY
How many realise, genuinely and understandingly realise, the
power of the penny?
The old exhortation, "Take care of the pennies and the pounds
will take care of themselves," has more significance than most
of us realise.
Think it out —better still, try it out —the steady, sincere con-
servation of the small coins, the proper practical appreciation
of the value of small things, and their cumulative qualities.
Save the pennies, and , the pounds, too, if you can, but let
the Savings Account take care of them for you.
That is the better way by at least 3 per cent, per annum.
<£bmmoiiwcaltl) Bavmos Banh of Bustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Plan to have a holiday midst the
world’s finest mountain scenery. Write
for illustrated booklets.
Gem of Canada's Rockies
LAKE LOUISE
In the heart of Canada’s Rockies, and
on the Canadian Pacific route to
Europe, is lovely Lake Louise—scenic
beauty beyond compare—bracing cli-
mate —magnificent hotel with C.P.R.
service and cuisine. Every outdoor
recreation and many social events.
Most people stop-over at Lake Louise
on the way to England—all arrange-
ments made before leaving Australia.
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney. g
IUNABUN want
'trains steamers hotels
Ihe Worlds Greatest System
PERSONAL
ITEMS
gome April birthdays:—
Archbishop Le Fanu (Perth) , 62, and .A. C.
Davidson (Bank of N.S.W.), s °, on Ist, Ale
jobson, 57, on 2nd; Dean Aickin (Melb.), 63, and
E. C. Riddle (Commonwealth Bank), 69, on 3rd,
Col Bourchier, M.L.A. (Vic.), 61, on , l
Gen. Ivan Mackay, 60, on 7th; artist Arthur Streeton,
65, on Bth; former Prime Minister J. C. w * ts °”'
65, on 9th; former Federal Speaker Elliot Johnson,
70, on 10th; poet Bernard O’Dowd, 66, on 11th,
Dr. Maloney, M.H.R., 78, on 12th; Justice R. M.
Douglas (Q.), 49, on 13th; John Q™*-
80 and Geo. Robertson (Angus and Robertson), 72,
on 14th; Assistant Minister Stanley Bruce 49, Bng.-
Gen Gordon Bennett, 45, and Adelaide’s former
Mayor Simpson, 57, on 15th; Lieut.-Gen. Chauvel,
67, on 16th; Rev. John Walker, 77, l7th ’ ;
Dixson (donor of Dixson Gallery, Syd.), 62, on 18th,
Melb. Uni. Chancellor MacFarland, 81, on 19th,
L. A. Adamson (Wesley Coll., Melb.), 72, on 20th;
W.A. ex-Premier Collier, 59, on 21st; ex-Federal
Speaker Littleton Groom, 66, and Prof. Chartens
(Syd.), 53, on 22nd; Q. Senator Cooper, 44, and
knight Arthur Robinson (Vic.), 60, 23rd;
medico-knight Maudsley (Melb.), 73, on 25th; ex-
Q. Senator Drake, 82, knight W. J. Sowden (late
Adel. “Register”), 74, and MacCallum Smith,
M. (W.A.), 64, on 26th; G. J. Cohen (Syd.),
90, knight Henry Braddon (Syd.), 69, W.A. Premier
Mitchell, 66, Prof. Agar (Melb.), 50, and J. Howlett
Ross (Melb.), 75, on 27th; Justice Owen Dixon
(High Court), 46, on 28th; knight Geo. Julius
(Scientific and Industrial Research Council), 69, on
29th, and Justice Evatt (High Court), 38, on 30th.
Died in London, at 79, O. F. Lindeman,
who, with his brother Dr. J. H. Lindeman,
founded one of Australia’s best-known wine-
making firms. The Lindemans were asso-
ciated with • the industry in S. Aus. from
very early days and introduced some ot the
modern methods that have proved so valu-
able. C. F. Lindeman was on a holiday trip
when the end came.
Wallace Bruce, who replaces Claude Read-
ing on the Unemployment Committee that
is to advise the coming Premiers’ conference,
is one of Adelaide’s busiest men. Me lias
been mayor of the city, and head ot the
Chamber of Commerce, the Taxpayers
League and an Industrial Conference. .Also
he is a Savings Bank trustee, and prominent
in. the control of S.A. cricket.
Before 1922 when one wanted, to confound
one’s enemy regarding Australia’s crime or
cows or trains or triplets he opened up:
“Well, according to Knibbs.” But in that
vear the encyclopaedic Knibbs retired, and
after that it was: “Well, according to
Wiekens.” Wickens, born in Victoria, had
C. H. WICKENS, Federal Statist, whom
ill-health has driven into retirement.
his first job as a Government statist in
Westralia, from which he crossed over to
the Federal service in 1906, and supervised
the censuses of 1911 and 1921. Nearly a
year ago his health broke down, and, despair-
ing of recovery, he has now resigned a job
which he did thoroughly well.
I. G. Reimann was a man who made his-
tory in the musical education of Australia.
Born in S.A. 73 years ago, he studied in
Berlin, and then founded an Adelaide School
of Music. When the University Conserva-
torium started in 1898 it took over Rei-
mann’s whole staff and students as a nucleus.
Piano and organ were his instruments, but
he was better known all over Australia as
musical examiner and editor.
Mrs Aarons, the woman member ot tne
Labor' delegation to Soviet Russia about
which s 0 much mystery hangs, is the only
Communist amongst the crowd, but is sum-
eiently well-to-do to pay her own way. Her
husband ran a confectionery business at
Sandringham (Vic.). She was one of the
original members of the Victorian Socialist
party, and Was closely associated witn
Adela Pankburst before the latter became
Mrs. Walsh. All the other delegates are
having their expenses paid by the unions
they represent.
Louis Blundell, senior member of the firm
of Blundell Bros., of Wellington (M.L.),
has spent most of his working life m the
service of the Post, the first daily
established in the capital, which has been the
property of the Blundells for donkey s years,
L. P. BLUNDELL, of the “Evening Post ,”
Wellington ( M.L. ).
and has found little time to cultivate other
interests. The “Post” has no political affilia-
tions and mighty few favorites. Its reputa-
tion for truthfulness is such that if it stated
the moon was made of green cheese Welling-
ton would scrap all previously-conceived
notions on the subject. Mr. Blundell has
never stood for Parliament, nor sought mem-
bership of public bodies. It is suspected,
nevertheless, that, though the fact is kept,
very quiet, he is a J.P-
Amongst the most interested of the in-
vited crowd that rambled over the Strath-
aird, the P. and O.’s latest monster to arrive
at Port Melbourne, was John Kitchmg, pro-
bably the oldest P. and O. man in Australia.
He started as a ship’s boy, worked through
the Navy into the line and ended as master
after serving on most of the best-known
companies trading to Australia. His first
P. and O. ship was the Parramatta, three-
quarters sail and a quarter steam. Many a
time he had to take in the mamtopsail with
his eyes full of clinkers from the funnel.
Ivitcbing was aboard the Australia when that
ship sank in Sydney Harbor through the
ports being left open. He worked on the
Sydney Ferries and in Queensland mines,
and was paid off the Ly-ee-moon just before
the voyage which ended underneath the
Green Cape lighthouse. His 59th voyage
was made in the Esperance Bay, returning
from England, where he was alongside the
Strathaird when she came off the stocks at
Barrow-on-Furness. During the war he was
in the salvage corps, which rushed to the
succor of torpedoed vessels. One of his last
sea jobs was as superintendent ship keeper
of German and Austrian prize ships on the
Thames.
Thomas A. L. Davy. Attorney-General in
the Westralian Ministry, is probably the
first Australian Rhodes scholar to become a
K.C., although far more of them have used
Oxford as a stepping-stone to the Bar than
to any other profession. Davy was the
State’s Rhodes scholar for 1909; he was
called at Gray’s Inn four years later and
put in another four years in the Royal Field
Artillery, serving in France . and India,
before returning to Australia.
The Sydney Show’s oldest patron is pro-
bably Alexander Mclntosh, who as a small
boy saw the very first one held on the Cleve-
land Paddocks, where the Prince Alfred
Park is to-day, and has never missed one
since. At 87 he was an entrant in the lOst.
hack class again this year.
“ Jeames”: The .Cowley family which air-
man Mollison, a cable says, is going to marry
into has several associations with' Australia.
The third earl (father of the present one,
who is an actor) married Lord Dick Neville’s
sister, Violet, 40-odd years ago. She divorced
him, and so did his next wife; the daughter
whom Mollison is reported to be engaged to
was presented to the festive peer by his third
wife. The Wellesleys (the original Lord Cow-
ley was a brother of the original Duke of
Wellington) are what is known as a divorc-
ing family. A great-uncle of the present earl
married a daughter of Lord Augustus Loftus,
the only N. S. Wales Governor who ever
attempted to eke out his stipend by chicken-
farming. She divorced him, he divorced his
next wife, and he found happiness in his old
age with a kinswoman —the widow of the
third Duke of Wellington. His son married
a Stephen, a member of the English branch
of the Stephen family of N. S. Wales.
It was quite in order for Mr. de
Groot to arrive on the Bridge on a broken-
down racehorse; he belongs to a family that
has been associated with antiques for over
a century. He was Sydney’s leading
authority on old furniture before the war
in spite of his youth. He left to join up
in his native land as soon as the fighting
began, but returned as soon as he was de-
mobbed. When the Commonwealth put a
duty on furniture under 100 years old he
began the manufacture of period reproduc-
tions —a humorous sidelight on the trade.
De Groot has a London reputation as an
authority on old glass and silver, and. like
most Irishmen, he is (Commissioner Childs
to the contrary) a first-class horseman.
Arthur May, a cow-farmer of South Gipps-
land, can claim a record probably unique in
Australia. He has arrived at the ripe age
of 53 without having seen a picture theatre.
He lately visited Melbourne for the first
time, and returned to his cow pasture with-
out troubling to see one. Perhaps he had
heard too much about them.
Australian industrial chemists haven’t
been much heard from thus far; but their
day is coming, too. Latest group to show
more activity consists of leather-trade chem-
ists : an Australian section of their inter-
national society has just been established,
with F. A. Coombs as president —he is lec-
turer-in-charge of the tanning school at
Waterloo (Sydney).
‘‘Old Timer”: From the “Sunday Sun”:
The Union, the Australian and the New South
Wales Clubs, the three most exclusive coteries in the
State, each have a by-law excluding Jews from
membership. Not long ago they called a meeting
of representatives of the three clubs to discuss what
should be done about the Governor-General.
Rubbish! The N. S. Wales Club had so
many Hebrews a few years ago that it was
known as “The Ghetto.” One of the most
esteemed members of the Australian is that
good Jew Sep Levy, and his late brother
Harry was a member, too. Nathans, Joskes
and many more belong to the Australian. The
Union has only one orthodox Jew, George
Judah Cohen, who was elected in 1901, but
it has several members of Sydney’s many
rich Christianised Hebrew and half-H'ebrew
families. No Sydney club, social, golf, bridge
or otherwise, has a by-law excluding people
of any race or faith. On the other hand, all
the leading ones have a rule that “the Gov-
ernor-General shall, on appointment, be
invited to become an honorary member, and
shall be exempt from payment of entrance
fee or subscription.”
Robert Crawford, the S. Aus. pastoralist,
formerly of Outalpa station, left a quar-
ter of a million. Thirty years ago he had a
little butcher’s shop in Broken Hill.
C. J. GOODE, sacked by N.S.W. Railway
Commissioner Cleary, now appointed
chairman of the Commission which con-
trols all State transport, thus super-
seding Cleary.
I,ieut.-Commander J. A. Bates, of Wil-
liamstown, who has been celebrating his
SOth birthday, served 40 years m the Vic. and
Australian navies. His first ship was the
Cerberus, whose name is now attached to the
Flinders Naval Base. The ancient craft her-
self now serves as a yacht shelter at the
seaside resort of Black Rock.
Frank A. Moss, mining engineer, a former
president of the W.A. Mining Assoc, and
the Australian Institute of Mining and
Metallurgy, was born on a Good Friday
61 years ago at Mt. Barker (S.A.). After
passing through the Ballarat School of Minos
he commenced work in 1889 in the -B.
Prop, assay office, where he soon became
chief assayer and chemist. After some years
of silver-refining at Port Pine and some
underground work at Broken Hill and Bal-
larat, he heard the West calling, made his
FRANK H. MOSS, of the Golden Mile.
way to Coolgardie, was in the Siberia and
Goongarrie rushes and pegged out the Lady
Margaret mine.. In 1896 he startedJJ™£tice
as a mining engineer and assayer at Menzi.es.
He was appointed rep. m the West for the B.
H. P. Co. and later managed the Kalgurh and
the Hainault mines and helped to make the
Golden Ridge a highly remunerative pro-
pertv for shareholders. Later he bought tin
claims at Grcenbushes, as well as acquir-
ing control of the Sand Queen and the Lance-
field. and becoming managing director ot
the Kalgoorlie Gold Recovery Co. Of recent
years his leisure has been devoted to a
variety of public activities V 1 eluding enure 1
work, ‘ National Federation politics, golf and
the gold bonus. His only son, another
Frank, is geologist in charge of the geo-
physical operations in California tor the
Gulf Oil Co.
Literary collaboration is rare in Australia,
and perhaps the most successful is that
which masquerades under the name of Mar*
got Neville.” Margot has poured out a
steady stream of chirpy modern novels which
are best-sellers in England and America.
Her latest, “Giving the Bride Away, will
shortly appear in an English edition and a
Danish translation. Half of Miss Neville
is Margot Goyder, the other half is her
sister Ann Neville. They produce then- pic-
tures of London society in a Melbourne
suburb. Their grandfather was Frederick
Goyder an Adelaide .surveyor, whose cousin,
George Goyder, was the author of the Goyder
line, beyond which it w r as at one time be-
lieved wheat could not be cultivated.
English files report the return of the
well-advertised Newton Moore from Aus-
tralia, “where he had been to advise the
Government in the financial crisis.” Moore
represents most of the things that are
anathema to Labor, and the idea of bcullin
imploring the affluent ex-Major-General and
Conservative M.P. to come to this country s
rescue in its hour of monetary need is dis-
tinctly humorous. By the way. Moore was
once ‘ landlord and part-proprietor of the
Bunburv “Herald” ; he still has some con-
nection ’ with the Inky Way as a director ot
Odham's Press, Ltd., a firm responsible tor
the Labor “Daily Herald,” “John Bull and
“The People.”
William Turner, the man who has super-
vised the construction and maintenance of
all Harold Clapp’s weighbridges, weighing
machines and spring balances for nearly .>U
years, has retired. He came from tlie Mid-
land Railway Co. in 1903, and has since
been responsible for the accuracy ot Vic-
torian railway weights and measures, from
locomotive balances of 170-ton capacity to
letter-scales of Boz. capacity.


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the mo3t significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.”
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is payable in monthly instal-
ments during the balance of a period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid also to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
General Secretary.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World's Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . .
Total Reserves approximately
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately
£241,341
£3,500,000
£900,000
£500,000
Area Planted . . Approx. 130,000 Acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong and San Francisco.
EXPLOSIVES
ALiLi KINDS STOCKED.
Sole Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary
goods by rail or steamer at
usual rates of freight.
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers of all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast-
ing Machines, Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
iO-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
General Industries, Ltd. .
r Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928* 42,186 12,906 5 p.c. = 27,394 1,886 1,886
Feb.,
1929 90,777 20,229 10 „ „ 70,240 t 308 2,194
1930 83,387 20,489 8 „ „ 44,506 18,392 20,586
Deficit.
Written off shares in other cos., £83,588.. 63,002
Loss.
1931 695 10,2611 Nil 73,958
Written off shares in other cos., £68,447.. 142,405
1932 125 Nil Nil 142,530
*F,ight months.
flncluding 5 p.c. on 294,419 deferred ords. 13* p.c.
About five years ago Metters and K.F.B.
decided to go on the market together; thus
the present holding co. was formed. It
exchanged its own scrip for the shares in
the two operating cos. on a net tangible
basis, and presently another subsidiary (K. F.
B. I’ty.) was formed and put up a factory
at Footscray (Vic.). So there is now
£1,144,498 of capital to feed —293,636 7 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 850,862 ords.; the latter
included 294,539 deferred shares issued in
payment for reserves, hidden and disclosed,
in the Metters Co.; the deferment expired
on Oct. 1, 1930.
The table shows what has been done with
the divs. passed on by the operating con-
cerns, and the writings-off reflect the shrink-
age in the aggregate net book value of the
subsidiaries’ assets. Thus for the first full
year following the merger the ords. got 10
p.c. and the deferreds 5 p.c. When the
books closed in 1930 the outlook was chang-
ing color, so the ord. div. was dropped to
8 p.c. and the deferreds passed by. Then,
as usually happens in the early stages of
a slump and especially where large plant is
involved, the operating cos. were unable
to get overhead back in proportion to the
drop in turnover; and for the last two years
no-divs. have been sent along to the holding
co.. whose own exes, show up as losses.
Thus the ords. have gone hungry and the
pref. div. had fallen 17 months (£27,129)
in arrears at the end of February—the prefs.
are entitled to only 5.42 p.c. since Oct. 1 last
owing to the statutory cut.
The combined turnover of the three trad-
ing cos. has fallen away to about one-third
of what it was three years ago. So, despite
substantial savings following a thorough
overhaul of the organisation, the subsidiaries
registered a net loss of £68,466 for the 12
months of 1931 as against a loss of £77,381
in 1930 and a profit of £89,059 in 1929. The
holding co. has taken into account its pro-
portion of these losses by striking £152,035
—£68,447 in respect of last year—off the
book value of its shareholdings, reducing the
figure to £1,042,336 at the end of Feb. Thus
the _ deficiency on account of its own share
capital was £142.530, as shown in the table.
And that is taking into the reckoning an
inner reserve of £54,000-odd, which appa-
rently existed in the subsidiaries’ properties
on the basis of 1927 values.
Here is the position as the combined
balance-sheet figures of the operating cos.
disclose it:—•
1928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £904,524 £904,531 £904,531 £904,531
Liabilities . . 157,071 227,483 221,886 207,016
Freehold . . 396,481 400,665 394,832 390,508
Plant, etc. .. 312,609 350,453 348,365 340,937
Stocks . . 378,715 420,039 393,255 323,176
Book debts . . 225,168 232,184 121,567 116,205
Shares other cos. 35,000 35,723 35,723 35,723
Cash . . . . 965 576 780 1,329
Last year the book value of stocks was
reduced by £70,079, debtors’ balances by
£5362, and £11,752 more was written off
than was spent on fixed assets. But owing
to the loss, only £14,870 was knocked off
the debt, of which £155,252 was coming to
the bank. The contraction in the more or
less liquid surplus (£233,694, including
stocks) was £60,022, making the slip £191,622
over the last two years. The plant, which is
thoroughly efficient, is capable of supplying
most of Australia’s requirements in the
lines produced—lately a lot of attention has
been given to the manufacture of aluminium
and enamel hollow-wmre and electric and oil
stoves. The tariff has helped and slight
improvement in trade is reported since the
close of accounts. But the trend of events
in N. S. .Wales make prospects there doubt-
ful, and until more employment can be found
for the co.’s equipment, it is impossible to
recover all overhead charges, the board says.
The market prices the prefs. at 11s. and
the ords. at ss. 6d., thus valuing the whole
undertaking at £398,487; its net book value
at Dec; 31 was £987,000-odd.
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
& £> £ £ £
1921.. 40,612 1200 12*p.c. = 27,000 12,412 17,426
1922.. 41,338.1200 12*.,, ~ 27,048 13,090 30,516
£36,000 of internal reserves disclosed and capitalised.
1923.. 46,600 1200 12* p.c.=31,642 13,758 44,274
1924.. 49,464 1200 12* „ ~ 31,805 16,459 60,733
1925.. 57,842 1200 14 „ ~35,728 20,914 81,647
£50,400 of internal reserves disclosed and capitalised.
1926.. 64,131 1200 15 p.c. = 42.480 20,451 102,098
1927.. 64,960 1200 15 „ ~46,080 17,680 119,778
1928.. 65,456 1200 15 „ ~ 46,127 18,129 137,907
1929.. 63,293 1200 15 ~ ~ 46,292 15,801 153,708
1930.. 39,410 1200 11* „ ~ 34,837 3,373 157,081
1931.. 20,251 1200 6 „ ~18,580 471 157,552
Gordon’s business was built up on cash-
orders, and it developed into a money-spinner
during the war and post-war boom. That
was when the scattering of large amounts
of loan funds from overseas created a
hunger for the things we hadn’t got and
a desire to borrow to buy them. Thus,
during the dozen years to the close of
accounts in 1929 the co.’s profits more than
doubled and divs. averaged 13.8 p.c. The
actual amount distributed more than trebled,
because paid capital was lifted from
£140,000 to £329,667 by the transfer of
£182,400 from reserves and the issue of
7267 employees’ shares.
But the outlook for this and similar
concerns has altered vastly during the last
couple of years. The sudden stoppage of
public borrowing, the spread of unemploy-
ment and the moratorium have brought a
crop of bad debts and restricted the granting
of credit, while the slump in prices and the
dulness in home and other building, and
the furnishing that goes with it, have
severely hit that section, too. Thus, after
paying the pref. div., last year’s net result
dropped to 6.1 p.c. on ord. capital compared
with 12.6 p.c. in 1930 and an average of
20.1 p.c. for the five years before that. The
div., which had been steady at 15 p.c. for
the four years to the end of 1929, was
lowered to HI- p.c. in 1930 and to 6 p.c. last
year. Still, the capitalisations make 6 p.c.
worth 18.4 p.c. to old holders at par.
To adjust the position to the altered
earning capacity of the business it is
proposed to return the whole of the £20,000
of pref. capital and 3s. per share (£46,450)
to the ords. as -well, leaving paid capital at
£263,217. The ease with which this can be
done is seen in the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures:—
1924. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. £275,005 £329,667 £329,667
Sundry creditors, etc... 40,815 47,462 44,976
Overdraft .. . . 19,182 10,233 2,415
Property and plant . . 14,152 121,745' 120,634
Stock and hire agreements 107,376 127,692 99,865
Book debts .. .. 84,867 77,127 60,377
Shares, debentures and short
loans .. .. .. 123,046 1
Mortgages .. .. 85,525 1 256,974 286,530
Government securities. . 19,744 J
Cash, etc. .. .. 274 872 803
Thus, allowing for the return of capital,
the co. will still have over £220,000 invested
outside the business. Assuming that these
investments can show a net return of 3 J p.c.,
the net book value of the remaining assets
need turn in only 5.7 p.c. clear to pay 8 p.c.
on £263.217 of share capital, and an B.p.c.
div. would call for only £BO6 more than was
netted last year.
But the market, doubtful of the future,
prices the pound ords. at par; they fetched
545. 6d. nearly three years ago.
South Australian Brewing Co.
Writ- Added Nomi-
ten to Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Feb. £ £ £ £ £
1922. . 30,821 10 p.c. = 25,000 5,821 54,776
Reserves.
1923.. 37,515 10 „ „ 25,000 12,515 54,776
1924.. 38,847 10 „ „ 25,000 8,000 5847 60,623
Added to reserves, £89,377 .. .. 150,000
Reserves capitalised, £150,000
1925.. 43,319 10 p.c.= 32,500 8.000 2819 2,819
1926.. 54,747 10 „ „ 40,000 10,000 4747 7,563
1927.. 57,553 10 „ „ 40.000 10,000 7553 15,119
Freehold depreciation and insur-
ance reserves taken in, £60,065 .. 75,184
1928.. 54,119 10 p.c. = 40,000 10,000 4119 79,303
Reserves brought to light, £44,756 .. 124,059
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 24,059
1929.. 64,045 10 p.c. = 50,000 10,000 4045 28,104
1930.. 62,242 10 „ „ 50,000 10,000 2242 30,346
1931.. 61,784 10 „ „ 50,000 10,000 1784 32,130
1932.. 46,736 6 „ „ 30,000 7,500 1 „„ aR „
Reserved for bad debts, £7500 )
The 6 p.c. is worth 12 p.c. on capital as
it stood at the close of. accounts in 1924,
since when the total on the share register
has been doubled by the issue of £250,000 of
bonus scrip, of which £111,455 was provided
from inner reserves. Also the board plunged
into the hotel-finance business, thus widen-
ing and anchoring turnover, and enabling
the div. to be kept steady at 10 p.c. till the
close of accounts in 1931. For the five
years to that date profits averaged £59,949
as against an average of £41,050 for the pre-
ceding quinquennium, despite drought and
other difficulties —there were three and in
some parts five bad seasons in succession
in S. Aus.
Then the slump affected spending, reduced
the value of hotel and other properties, and
made necessary special provision for bad
debts. Also there have been stinging in-
creases in excise and other taxes. After
providing for contingencies, the slip in gross
earnings on sales (£45,021) was £8722 for
the 12 months to Feb. 29. Interest and rents
(£38,749) fell away £6532, due mainly to
statutory cuts. Exes. (£38,258) were only
£229 lighter; still, allowing for reserve
adjustments, enough remained to show
9.3 p.c. on capital as against 12.3, 12.4,
12.8 and 10.8 p.c. back to 1928. But four
points wore knocked off the div., and after
striking £7500 off the book value of plant,
and openly reserving a further £7500 for
bad debts, only £1736 of the net takings
was visibly ploughed in.
The next table shows the lines along which
the business has developed of recent years,
and the comfortable state of the finances: —
1924. 1930 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities .. 257,197 168,236 150,533 149,699
Property, plant,
etc. .. 445,518 376,866 395,117 396,656
Stocks.. .. 17,514 26,365 25,118 20,296
Book debts .. 35,190 46,749 32,262 35,688
Advances .. 52,954 258,835 255,647 248,431
Debenture
trustees .. 71,479
Cash .. .. 24,733 24,767 9,518 12,494
Eiabilities, which have been reduced by
£18,539 over the last two years, include pro-
vision for taxation, etc. —£44,756 of genuine
profit was raked out of this heap about five
years ago. There is nothing of special sig-
nificance in the movements in last year’s
figures. But since the close of accounts in
1924 £48,862 more has been written off than
has been spent on freeholds, plant, etc.;
also £195,477 net has been added to the
book value of advances and £150,000 of
debentures has been repaid.
Over the last 12 months the pound shares
strengthened from 255. to 275. on the market.
But bids dropped to 245. on publication of
the sheet. The return at 245. is 4.8 p.c. on
a 6 p.c. div. basis, or 6.7 p.c. should the dis-
tribution be lifted t 0 8 p.c. The visible back-
ing is 21s. 4d. in net tangibles.
Motor and Cash Orders, Ltd.
This _ distraught Sydney concern, which
joined in the scramble to provide the public
with credit facilities in Aug., 1926, soon
got its toes trodden upon. It was promoted
by Percy Freeman, who took a job as manag-
ing director for five years at £2OOO a year,
and also the right to 10 p.c. commission on
the sale of the scrip. The public was offered
50,000 10 p.c. cum. prefs. and 350,000 ords.
But at Aug. 31 last only £85,351 had been
gathered on 31,204 prefs. and 66,967 ords.;
there was still £2407 to come on the prefs.
and £10,412 on the ords. Also £32,654
of the paid capital had gone in pre-
liminary exes and other intangibles. There
was a paper reserve of £5440, but not much
notice need be taken of that, nor of some of
the other figures, as will be shown presently.
Since the beginning the board has claimed
profits totalling £7265, paid a year’s div. on
the prefs. and admitted to losses aggregating
£12,140. Much of the trouble has occurred
in the cash-order section, which was closed
down in 1929. What the final loss here will
amount to partly depends upon dividends, if
any, that may be received from the liquidator
of the Community General Insurance Co.,
with which concern losses on the cash-order
risks were covered.
Here is the position so far as balance-sheet
figures disclose it:—
_ .. 1929. 1930. v i93l.
Paid capital .. .. £84,591 £85,311 £85,351
Sundry creditors .. .. 2,047 539 567
Fittings 1,184 1,521 1,391
Book debts 69,295 61,154 52,891
Investments and cash .. 769 2,376 4,423
But the board has never stated the position
as fully and frankly as it should have done.
That was left to the auditors, who say, in a
special report on the last accounts, that no
provision had been made for (1) unaccrued
interest, (2) bad debts. (3) an apparent
liability of some £10,006 for accrued pref.
divs., (4) income tax which the co. contends
it is not liable to pay. They further state
that, subject to their estimate of bad debts
not being exceeded, the position of the co.
was approximately as follows:
Paid capital .. ..£85,351
Less :—
Preliminary exes. .. ..£21,240
Loss for 1931 . . .. .. 6,414
Estimated bad debts ’.. ... 20,800
48,454
Tangibles .. £36,897
Thus, apart from £12,819 of called but
unpaid capital, which is a very doubtful
asset these days, the whole of the' paid up
ordinary capital and, including accrued divs.,
£1899 of the liability to the prefs. was unre-
presented by tangible assets when the books
last closed.
That is a very different picture from the
one the board presented. However, there
have, been changes in the control; Mr. Free-
man.s contract has terminated and the
number of directors has been reduced from
tour to three. Still, the question arises
whether the co. should not go into liquida-
tion immediately in order to save the pref.
capital. Much is to be said on either side,
but the probabilities are that owing to
the moratorium, pref. shareholders have more
to gain by the co. continuing in business,
provided it is carefully and efficiently nursed.
At the moment the only prospect for the
ords. appears to be the possibility of calls.
Finney, Isles and Co. (Brisbane)
To
Jan., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
& £ £
1921.. 29,019 lOp.c. = 26,502 2,457 57,529
Transferred to capital, £12,500 ) .. Q „.
Tax thereon, £95.. .. J 44,934
Loss.
1922.. 14,173 3 p.c. = 8,060 22,701
Profits.
1923.. 22,302 7 „ „ 20,481 1,821 24,522
1924.. 9,244 3* „ „ 9,660 24,106
1925.. 24,948 8 „ „ 22,080 2,868 26,974
1926.. 23,898 8 ~,, 22,079 1,819 28,793
1927.. 20,313 8 „,, 22,079 27,027
1928.. 8,360 Nil 8,360 35,387
Loss on Maryborough Branch, £ 12,247.. 23,140
1929.. 10,358 5 p.c. = 13,812 19,686
1930.. 19,651 7 „ „ 19,337 314 20,000
1931.. 4,949 24 ~ „ 0,906 18,043
1932.. 12,207 4 „ „ 11,050 1,157 19,200
Trans, to investment reserve, £212 .. 18,988
Shareholders averaged 8.1 p.c., sweetened
with £57,514 of bonus scrip, during the dozen
years to the close of accounts in 1921. Then
it was decided to widen the co.’s connections
in the country on the basis of long-term
credits. Ever since the co. was caught in the
backwash of the post-war boom it has been
a struggle, however, to pay an average of 5.6
p.c. Of recent years attention has been con-
centrated on city turnover; the last of the
provincial branches was closed in 1929, and
the withdrawal from Maryborough, which
was part of this plan,, alone cost £12,247.
Then just as the figures began to recover
the whole outlook changed; while prices
fell rapidly and turnover slumped, the tariff
and exchange bumped up the landed cost
of imports, and taxation made overhead stub-
born. Thus, to pay an interim 2| p.c., re-
serves had to be tapped for £1975 during
the 12 months to the end of Jan., 1931 ; and
the drift continued for the next six months.
But there has since been a heartening im-
provement in the business, t.-p. transactions
have been further restricted, and some of
the outlets have been stopped up.
For the 12 months to the close of last
accounts exes. (£112.745) were pulled back
£14,171. So, although gross profits
(£124,952) slipped £6913, the board was able
to show a clear 4.4 p.c. ou capital as against
1.8, 7.1, 3.7, 3, 7.3 and 8 p.c. back to 1926.
Further slight improvement in trade is re-
ported since the books closed, but present
price-levels lack strength, and until the gap
between these and costs can be narrowed,
and more of the unemployed absorbed, thus
giving a wider spread to spending, it is
doubtful to what extent net earnings are
likely to further benefit.
The recent change in the co.’s trading
methods and the extent to which it has tight-
ened its. belt during the last couple of years
are reflected in the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures :
1927. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Capital .. £275,993 £276,243 £276,243 £276,243
Liabilities .. 202,412 119,950 108,920 109,805
Freehold .. 127,935 139,325 150,527 150,428
Plant, etc. .. 27,895 31,812 36,915 38,475
Stocks . . 220,046 173,495 145,485 149,856
Book debts, etc. 137,849 79,596 57,164 48,554
Cash and in-
vestments. . 5,247 6,381 16,664 25,535
At the close of last accounts liabilities com-
prised a mortgage of £48,874; debenture
stock, £39,'000; sundry creditors, £21,931.
More or Jess liquids, including stocks, ex-
ceeded the lot by £114,140, or £3749 more
than at the previous balance. Stocks are
claimed to be conservatively valued, and the
strengthening of the cash position and con-
tinued reduction of book debts are healthy
signs. The growth of £1560 in the book
value of plant was due to the installation of
bargain isles and a new drink fountain, etc.
On the market the pound shares fetch
around 13s. as against 11s. 6d. a year ago.
At 13s. the return isi 6.1 p.c. on a 4? p.c. div.
basis. The backing is 21s. 4d. in net tan-
gibles.
Pacific Forests, Ltd. (Maoriland)
The oldest of this co.’s trees were
planted five or six years ago; pulping is
expected to begin in 1940. All share-
holders are to participate proportionately
in whatever profits eventually show up;
there are no bonds, and no special “issues.”
The co. was formed in July, 1925, and it
bought 12,700 acres of land at '£3 ss. an
acre in the Rotorua district. No promoters'
or similar shares were scattered. In three
(Continued on page 16.)


A CROWN DOESNT MAKE A KING-
nofd garter a kfiiqht-
and neither does a cork tip
make other cigarettes
as good as^B*D-V
*
A
S>
*
*
m
*3
Australia's
cork TIPPED
<§>
ULAR
POPULAR
CIGARETTE
BETTER cigarettes than B.D V7s
have yet been sold at ten for six-
pence! For in less than a year BtD.V.’s
quality has definitely made them
Australia’s most popular ten-for-sixpenny
cork tipped cigarettes.
B.D.V.’s are well filled, well packed, and
manufactured only from pure, imported Virginia
tobacco.
That’s the reason for this outstanding popu-
larity !
| Of 6°
CORK TIPS or PLAIN 20/r


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF ATT SX K Alii A LTD. AND REDUCED.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores, Silver and Silver Ores
Gold and Silver Bullion, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates, Scrap Copper,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS of Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate
(Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the
Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT EEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or
Port Kembla Office. The company will realise it on your account at current
London prices plus exchange, and will issue you a certificate to enable you
to collect the Gold Bounty.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
V/. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
i Vrite for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors:
O.E.FRIEND F. n YARWOOD THOS. BUCKLAND
? E S L J!v>2 OYLR (Chairman) J. H. S. ANGUS
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital £8,780,000
Reserve Fund 6,150,000
Reserve Liability 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 .. £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
years 174.297 £1 shares had been placed,
and at October 7, 1931, subscriptions had
risen to £274,745 (26,658 shares were sold
last year). Brokerage at 10 p.c. on the
face value of the scrip ran off with £27,475.
other preliminary exes, absorbing £5336.
Altogether, these intangibles represented 11.9
p.c. of the subscribed capital, or 18.8 p.c.
on the amount actually paid up (£174,543)
at October 7 last.
The co.’s own holding of 12,700 acres
lias been nearly all planted, mostly with
I‘irvus radiata (insignia ). In addition, in
October, 1928, a subsidiary, the Waratah
Pulp and Paper Co., Ltd., was formed to
acquire and plant an adjoining block
(3823 acres). Of the subsidiary’s £lOO,OOO of
subscribed capital, £99,970 is held by Pacific,
which has paid up £45,530 thereon (an in-
crease of £16,075 last year)- In the
parent’s 1930 accounts, by the misplacement
of a comma, the balance-sheet erroneously
read that £99,970 was paid up on the shares,
but that the scrip was taken into account
at only £29,455. The subsidiary has finished
planting its first block; thus the two cos.
combined have well over 10 million seedlings
planted out.
Figures of the Pacific co. only are
disclosed. For the six years to October
last, salaries, other administration exes.,
interest, rates, etc., had run off with £27,168,
which has been capitalised. Last year’s
charges (£5472) exceeded the average
annual debit by £946. The freehold appears
at cost (£41,977), buildings, plant, etc., at
£3654, and plantation, roads and firebreaks
figure at £24,617 (up £1658). Liquids
amount to £3147, while the co. owes £ll7B.
Forfeited shares reserve amounts to £3lBO.
To see the programme to the harvesting
stage there is £100,202 of capital at call. It
is estimated that the final cost will not
exceed £l5 an acre; to date the expenditure
on the Pacific block has been about £lO 6s.
an acre. The budgeted figures thus allow
for an outlay of £6700 p.a. over the next nine
years ; last term the expenditure was slightly
over the estimate. The more economical tlie
management is in administration, the more
cash there should be to finance pulping and
marketing.
On a net return of £225 an acre divs. of
100 p.c. p.a. are spoken of. As each crop is
taken off, the. ground is to be replanted.
The “Wild Cat” does not care to prophesy;
but it knows that at the moment the timber
business is very sick indeed. However,
shareholders seem to be getting a fair run
for their money; if they are not, the remedy
lies in their own hands.
Caledonian Collieries, Ltd.
Nominal
Net r —-Dividends- To Re- Re-
. Profits. Pref. Old. Total, serves, serves.
Dec. ; £
1921. . 147.790 8 p.c. 12 p.c.=146,250 1,540 95,996
1922. .130,266 S „ 9 „„ 129,268 998 96,994
1923.. 79,540 6 ~ 5 „ „ 79,038 502 97,496
1924.. 93,842 6 6 „ „ 89,274 4,568 102,064
1925.. 89,242 6 ~ 6 „„ 89,274 102,032
1926.. 76,147 6 ~ 4 „ „ 68,802 7,345 109,377
1927.. 58,859 6 „ 3 „ „ 58,566 293 109,670
1928.. 79,105 6 „ 5 „ „ 79,038 67 109,737
Loss.
1929.. 54,198 Nil 55,544
Profit.
1930.. 675 Nil 56,219
1931.. 15,975 Nil 72,194
This co. owns seven collieries on the North-
ern N. 8. Wales field — the four Aberdares,
on the Greta seam, the least expensive to
handle in the State, apd the Waratah (Bur-
wood seam). West Wallsend and Killing-
worth (Borehole seam), which are still good
mines. Further, it is IJoward-Smith con-
trolled, being, thus favored so far as markets
are concerned. Still, for 14 years after the
co. took over from a Glasgow crowd, which
included the cotton Coatses, in 1914, the
ords. averaged only a wink over 6 p.c.; but
a capitalisation at the beginning made 6 p.c.
worth a, lot more to the parent.
After 15 months’ stoppage work was re-
sumed on June 2, 1930. Hence the loss
in 1929, and the mere handful of profit
in 1930. The industry, which has lost prac-
tically all its export trade, is now strug-
gling hard to get out of the bog. Amalga-
mations on the basis of lower capitalisations
have begun, thus permitting the elimination
of uneconomical pits. But there are still
too many in the trade for the business avail-
able, and prices have had to be cut to
secure orders, while costs remained rigid.
Thus the board put the profit on last year’s
trading at £15,975, or little more than half
a full year’s pref. requirements, and botfi
lots of shareholders went hungry again.
That was after £49,176 more had been
written off than was spent on fixed assets,
as this next comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows:—
1923. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Pref. capital. . £464.295 £464,295 £464,295 £464,295
Ord. capital.. 1,023,599 1,023,599 1,023,599 1,023,599
Creditors . . 188,930 219,972 252,722 178,301
Overdraft . . 16,671 98,365 98,911 83,391
Collieries, etc. 1,645,298 1,738,708 1,752,153 1,702,977
Stores .. 103,724 61,555 38,940 3 (,293
Coal stocks . . 6,306 758 25,665 1i,359
Book debts . . 48,662 9,074 18,871 11,781
Shares . . 51,302 51,302 52,103 52,103
Cash, etc. . . 809 378 8,014 26 <
Thus the year’s spare money was used to
reduce the debt —£74,421 was knocked oft
the amount coming to sundry creditors and
£15,520 off the overdraft. The excess of
liabilities over liquids (£232,285, excluding
shares and stores) was reduced by £66,798
during the twelvemonth.
The future of the industry is obscure ; a
bill now before the Legislative Council aims
at placing control in the hands of a board
of three —a representative each of the
owners and employees, and a chairman
appointed by the Government —with power
to set up various sub-committees and to
determine outputs, soiling prices, wages, divs.
and a host of other things, including the
closing of pits and the payment of compen-
sation. The bill, if placed upon the Statute
Book in its present form, threatens, to make
a present of much of the N. S. Wales coal
trade to producers outside the State. Whilst
N. S. Wales remains part of the Common-
wealth, the State Government cannot pre-
vent the importation of coal from other
States or from overseas, nor can it control
the price to be paid for such imports.
The market prices the ords. at ss. and the
prefs. at 7s.
Australasian Catholic Life
This little Sydney co. has put up a splen-
did performance. Formed 11 years ago by
E. J. Mooney with a paid capital of £14,610,
its second overhaul by the actuary shows a
divisible surplus of £23,474 for the five years
to June 30 last. That was after setting aside
£289,473 to meet liabilities under policies.
Of the surplus 80 p.c. (£18,779) belongs to
policy-holders. In the Ordinary dept, rever-
sionary bonuses are recommended at the
rate of 30s. p.c. p.a. for whole-of-life and
20s. p.c. p.a. for endowment assurances. In
the Industrial branch, which represents
about three-quarters of the co.’s total busi-
ness, reversionary bonuses on policies five
years or more in force are at the rate of
21s. p.c. p.a. for whole-of-life and 14s. p.c.
p.a. for endowment assurances. All this still
leaves a'surplus of £9158 to be carried to
bonus reserve.
Shareholders are entitled to the other 20
p.c. (£4695) of the profits. The 7 p.c. cum.
prefs. are to be paid right up to date, and
the ords. get 5 p.c. for the year to June 30
last. All intangibles have been wiped out
of the sheet.
The office assumes that its funds will net
4 p.c. ; actually, they turned in £6 18s. p.c.
last year compared with £6 14s. 4d. and £6
Bs. Bd. p.c. in the two preceding years. These
high returns and favorable mortality experi-
ence (the co. has adopted the British OM.
table) account for the satisfactory surplus.
At June 30 last 71.4 p.c of the total assets
was represented by mortgages, and 27.4 p.c.
by Government securities. Though' interest
reduction legislation, etc., can be expected to
narrow margins in the future, the co. has set
an excellent example to all other youngsters
in the business.
Last week the “Wild Cat” said “the
Packers” recently joined the staff of Associ-
ated Newspapers. Only R. C. Packer did
so; he is managing editor of what is left of
the Associated flock. Incidentally, since the
close of its accounts at the end of last
September, Associated has paid to Smith’s
a further £56,000, making total payments
in respect of the cash consideration for
the purchase of the “Guardians” £91,000,
and reducing the amount owing by Associ-
ated from £140,000 to £84,000. The £84.000
is payable over the next four and a half
years. Associated’s shareholders anxiously
await the straightening out of that co.’s
capital account.
* * $
“Cuzinjan”: It is hard to understand why
the Occidental at Cobar (N.S.W.) has been
passed over in the search for large low-grade
gold propositions. First worked as a copper
show, this mine gave 900,000 tons of ore
assaying lOdwt. gold per ton up to the time
operations were suspended in 1918. The
lenticular ore bodies, which cut across the
sandstone country, were oxidised to 350 ft.
and have been developed to 740 ft. Most of
the ore above 540 ft. level has been extracted
Four lodes have been developed; the Gossan,
12ft.-20ft. wide; the Big Lode, 650 ft. long
and 80ft. wide; and further east the Indi-
cator aud Albion. Above the 740 ft. level it
is estimated that there is 120,000 tons assay-
ing 10dwt., and that each 100 ft. in depth
would yield 100,000 tons. The ore is sul-
phidic, and previously the mineral was col-
lected on tables and roasted. Nowadays, a
high-grade flotation concentrate could be
made, as is done at Lake View and Wiluna,
followed by roasting and cyaniding.
Thus far the Australian Radium Co.’s
development work at Mt. Painter (S. Aus.)
is encouraging. Much oxidised ore carrying
the radium-bearing minerals autunite and
torbernite has been unearthed in the shal-
low and scattered surface workings; but
little information is available on the im-
portant question as to behavior of the ore
at depth. At the mine, a cheap method of
concentration has been adopted, and the
grade of ore shipped has been raised from
1.5 p.c. to 8 p.c. uranium oxide. At the
extraction works at Dry Creek, near Adel-
aide, .025grm. of radium, worth £250, and
2cwt. of uranium salt are in process of pre-
paration. Sections of the Dry Creek plant
are obsolete, and the co. now proposes to
erect treatment works at Melbourne.
* * * *
The Siamese Tin Syndicate's alluvial tin-
bearing leases at St. Helens (Tas.) include
the George River mine, the Argonaut, which
is a sluicing property acquired from Pioneer
Tin, and alluvial flats at Goshen, where bores
have shown good values. The Argonaut
wash contains about 0.871 b. of recoverable
tin oxide per c. yd. Here 66,500 c. yd. were
sluiced for 26 tons of high-grade tin oxide
in 1930. The George River grade is some-
what lower. The alluvial tin in the vicinity of
St. Plelens has been shed from the tin-bear-
ing granite of the Blue Tier area.
❖ * ❖ *
In their monthly production reports many
gold-mining cos. fail to give the yield in fine
ounces, stating instead the value of the out-
put, and sometimes no mention is made as
to whether exchange is included. A stand-
ardised method of recording output in ounces
fine would be welcome by investors and
mining men generally. If the return in ounces
was given, followed by the revenue figure,
the grade mined might be compared with the
estimated ore reserve value, and the posi-
tion of the mine thereby checked.
For February the premium paid in West-
ralia on new gold was £140,279, and on old
gold £10,268. The number of cast-off
watches, chains, bangles, brooches, etc., that
have been sold to the Perth Mint in the last
few months is surprising. Much of the stuff
has been handed in by dealers.
# * * *
A year ago South Ivalgurli had surplus
liquids, mainly cash and gilt-edged securities,
amounting to nearly £lOO,OOO, or Bs. per
share. Over the last 11 years a steady 25
p.c. (2s. 6d. per share) has been paid, and a
bit better for the year just ending is talked
of. The weak spot is the dwindling ore
reserves; the main lode has bottomed and
nothing of importance has shown up else-
where. However, there are several years’
work ahead yet. Moreover, while the gold
premium continues, much ore hitherto re-
jected will come into the profitable category.
; *.
Boulder Perseverance recently offered
£50,000 worth of notes, which, besides carry-
ing 10 p.c. interest, entitled holders to half
tne net profits until redeemed at the earliest
on June 30, 1936. Only about £18,500 worth
is said to have been taken. It is the rights
that most of the shareholders are concerned
about; many who didn’t take up notes are
wondering whether they are in a philan-
thropic or a commercial spec.
iji
From all accounts Gt. Boulder (W.A.) Is
a much improved mine. Ore reserves con-
tinue to increase, and the cash position is
better than it has been for years. Progress
has been steady since 1926. when the main
lode, from which 12 million sterling had been
extracted, looked dicky at the bottom. Since
1927 operations have shown a surplus of
£170,000. Another 3d. a share is expected
in June.
* * « *
A Yankee named Webber recently obtained
an option over the Mararoa (W.A.). and he
so impressed the United Verde crowd (New
York) with the show’s prospects that they
have sent two of their experts, Herron and
Budroe, to have a look at it. They are there
now.
Several Maoriland gold-producers made
good hauls last month. The Okarito dredge
brought up 3200 z. in 498 working hours; the
average value was 9.7 d. per cubic yard. A
total of 3S4oz. was credited to Alexander
Mines; 990 z. from the cyanide plant and
2850 z. from 450 tons of ore. Blackwater got
17390 z. for a net profit of £1419, with gold
at standard value. These cos. are located on
the West Coast (South Island), where there
is said to be plenty more of the yellow metal.
Whether the mining boom has anything to
do with it or not, there is a 300 p.c. increase
of new mining students at the School of
Mines, Otago University (Maoriland), this
year. In prosperous times the average yearly
enrolment is five.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
From what taxes are holders of Common-
wealth bonds exempt? —B99s.
Under Commonwealth Debt Conversion
Act interest on Australian Consolidated
securities is exempt from (1) Federal pro-
perty tax 2s. in the £, (2) any increase in
Federal income tax after June 30, 1931 (it
is therefore exempt from last increase of
5 p.c.), (3) State income tax, (4) State
unemployment tax.
Could you tell me why my £1 note is worth
only 16s. in England? —9o44.
Broadly speaking, the value of a currency
depends in the long run upon its purchasing
power in its own country. Because Aus-
tralian pounds will buy wool, wheat, metals,
dairy produce, etc., in Australia, traders
in other countries are willing to buy these
pounds. What they can afford to pay for
them in units of their own currency depends,
amongst other things, upon what their own
costs and price levels are. There hag, been
a sharper drop in the British price-level
than in the Australian price-level, which
partly explains the difference between the
relative value of the English and Australian
pounds. Of dozens of other factors influ-
encing exchange rates, the budgetary posi-
tion and foreign trade balance are amongst
the most important. It was the correction
of our trade balance that enabled the Aus-
tralia/London buying rate to be lowered
from £l3O to £125 per cent.
(1) I have a, two-head stamper battery.
The rods with shoes weigh 240 1 b. How much
medium hard quartz conhl I crush per eight
hours? (2) Length of stampers and number
of drops per minute? —8920.
(1) The quantity of ore treated largely
depends on design of battery, mesh of screens
used and other factors. Always a little
experimental work is necessary in order to
get the best results. Probably your maximum
output would be a ton per shift. (2) The
drop of stamps should be 6in. to 7in., with
100 drops per minute.
Is the cyanide process of any use for
extraction of gold from black sands on the
Queensland coast? —BB37.
Without exact knowledge of the constitu-
ents of the particular sands you refer to,
it is difficult to give a definite reply. Most
of the black sands on the Queensland coast
are very low-grade as regards gold, and are
not likely to be payable if treated by any
process, unless handled in a large way.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
•T.W.: Can’t see that the business would bo
expedited by the transfer of the Commonwealth
Bank’s head office to London. Some Australian banks
already have head offices there, and they can’t get
the business through any quicker than the others
R.W.8.: It is a long-term speculation which may
turn out to be overcapitalised in the long run....
A.V.: Quite sound, and, provided its policy-holders
stick to it, the co. should make steady progress in
the future.... Doubtful: (1) Cannot say exactly until
the Actuary’s figures are made available; but net
tangibles ( £92,923) were £60,093 short of the
assurance funds at June 30 last. (2) Yes, in 1930.
But it was apparently not earned. (3) In the indus-
trial section exes, took 57.4 p.c. of the net premiums
for the 12 months to June 30, 1931 ; it seems too high
a figure for there to be any profit from that source.
. ...C.8.P.: It is safer where it is at present....
Anxious Policy-holder: See B. 30/12/’3l.


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
The Unemployed and the Dole
Dear Bulletin,— Of course, no man is
entitled to the dole; no man is entitled to
more than the opportunity to support him-
self and his dependants by his own honor-
able efforts. To that eyery man is entitled.
But since the opportunity to labor is denied
to thousands of honest citizens, society, to
save itself, has instituted the dole, and it
is the next best and probably the cheapest
alternative. Several hundred thousand men,
forced by the necessity of self-preservation
to become utterly predatory, would consti-
tute a menace to our civilised society, and
would probably overwhelm it. Jungle-law
and civilisation cannot exist i'll the same
country, and the dole can only be abolished
in one of two ways: (1) a reversion to
barbarism, (2) employing those at present
unemployed. And the quickest, best and
cheapest way of doing the latter is to give
all unemployed men who are suited to a
rural life the chance to become self-support-
ing on the land.—Yours, Bakcoo Bill.
Do We Really Want to Save the Farmer?
Dear B., —With wool at 81d. per pound
(3d. of this we find ourselves), and wheat
at 2s. 6d. country stations, producers cannot
possibly square the ledger. We are sick and
tired of the hypocritical cry of “Reduce
costs of production.” We have done our
share; who - else is doing anything? Not a
Government in Australia has the guts to
tackle the job of bringing down its extra-
vagant expenditure; all they can do is to
increase taxation in an overtaxed land. The
financial institutions are not a whit better;
they are brazenly flouting the provisions of the
Interest Reduction Act and tormenting their
hopeless clients. The wool-broking cos. re-
fused the request of the Graziers’ Associa-
tion to cut out the added imposition of 7s.
per bale for warehousing, etc.; this alone is
casting us £900,000 this year. Though they
are getting wool at sifd. per pound, the
buyers scout the idea of a suspension of
the iniquitous draft allowance, a slug of
£250,000 annually. Properties are being
neglected, improvements falling into decay,
rabbits increasing and little or no provision
being made t<? combat the inevitable drought.
And the Commonwealth is dangerously over-
stocked, carrying a million more sheep than
in the record year of 1891. Is it any wonder
there is a creeping paralysis of pessimism
in the minds of the rural population? Can’t
the pot-bellied bankers, half-baked econo-
mists and hard-boiled politicians realise that
the prosperity of Australia is deep-rooted in
the primary industries? Have they no solit-
tion to our problem but threadbare plati-
tudes and yap, yap, yap? We are drifting
on to the rocks where the whole damn lot
of us will be smashed. —Yours, An Old
Grazier.
The Higgins Scheme
Dear Bulletin,— l am instructed to
advise you that at the last meeting of the
executive of the Southern Woolgrowers’
Association (W.A.), the following resolution
was carried :
This executive calls upon the Woolgrowers’ Council
to publish the names of all experts consulted re-
garding John Higgins’s [wool stabilisation] scheme,
and their reasons, in detail, for rejecting it as
unsound. We view with distrust the lack of
satisfactory information furnished.
—Yours, F. Eric llitchins.
Maoriland Exchange
Dear B., —All Professor Gregory’s opinions
on the probable result of higher exchange
rate are proved wrong by present conditions
in England now sterling is off gold. Exchange
is entirely an internal matter —a bonus to
the producer collected from the consumer; a
reward to the few deserving ones from the
many. “It increases Government expendi-
ture,” says the professor. But to whom does
the Government pay it? The producer.
From whom does the Government collect it !
The taxpayer. Why should the banks try
to keep prices steady? That is not their
job. Higher prices increase the reward for
production. If the depression continues a
further rise in exchange will be justified so
as to reduce real wages and retard imports,
thereby adapting M.L. expenditure to M.L.
income, and encouraging production. Pro-
fessor Gregory views M.L. entirely from an
English standpoint. He forgets that in-
creased price for imports does not affect
M.L. cost, of living like it does the cost, in
England. Most M.L. imports arc luxuries,
and increasing their cost reduces their con-
sumption, and thereby reduces M.L. expen-
diture.
Professor Gregory fears that a higher
exchange rate may make it impossible. to
revert to the old parity between sterling
and M.L. money. What of it? It doesn’t
mean that M.L. has to ship any more goods
to London to pay her obligations. If wool
is worth £lO sterling a bale, 10 bales will
be worth £lOO irrespective of the M.L. rate
of exchange.—Yours faithfully, P. H. B.
“Bagmen”
Dear Bulletin,— l’ve got a grievance. It
concerns a couple of pars, about drawing
doles at country police stations. The offence
is in the use of the word “bagman.” If this
is intended to refer to the conveyer of bluey,
matilda, drum or knot, and to take the place
of good old Aussie “swagman,” then I call
upon you to check the incipient anarchy with
a loud slash of the blue pencil. If the prac-
tice is unchecked, you will soon hear of the
arrest of the same “bagmen” for illegally
boiling their gypsy kettles in the coppice after
a chicken raid in the wold. —Yours, Tuck.
Rubber and Tobacco
Dear Bulletin. —In 1910 rubber grown
at Taiping, F.M.S., at a cost of 9d. per
pound was sold in London for 12s. lid.
Within a few years the Malay peasant had
rooted out cocoanuts, sugar, coffee and
tapioca, and turned to rubber. The. land
shark and company promoter got busy, and
soon the F.M.S. and, to a lesser extent,
.Java. Borneo and parts of Siam and Burma
were converted into vast plantations. Aided
by conditions it was possible to increase the
capitalisation of estates from £2O to £2OO
per acre and still pay handsome dividends.
To-day rubber sells for about Bd. per
pound in London, and plantations are for
sale at two a penny. The Malay peasant still
taps his trees, but has ceased to buy sewing-
machines, gramophones and motor-cars and
is back to his father’s standard of living.
Somewhere in this there is a lesson for
our tobacco industry. A threefold increase
in production in a year would be excellent
under certain conditions, but if it means
laying the foundations of a boom which will
one day burst with disastrous results, we
cannot face the problem too soon.—Yours,
M. F. G. B.
N. Graziers’ Association
Dear Bulletin, —“Grazier Since the
’Eighties” (B. 9/3/’32), on the recent
N.S.W. Graziers’ Confference, very bravely
hints at what should have been openly said.
I have been a delegate to these conferences
for some years and am also getting fed up
to the back teeth. My chief objection lies in
the fact that the graziers’ right of represen-
tation through their elected delegates is chal-
lenged by a cluster of men in whom is vested
the power at all times of exercising indivi-
dual votes. On vital questions it is quite
possible for 10 favored individuals to veto
the wish of anything from 500 to 1000
members. Is it any wonder dissatisfaction
exists among the rank and file? One
delegate at the recent conference put
forward a proposal for the reorganisation
of the association on more democratic
lines. It is to be submitted to the execu-
tive for its consideration, and, in my opinion,
the result is a foregone conclusion. One
thing is certain —the members will get no
chance of considering the proposal.
It should be of vital interest to wool-
growers throughout Australia to know that
John Higgins, in a letter to the Australian
Woolgrowers’ Council in connection with
the rejection of his scheme, found justifica-
tion for the following statement: “I now ask
the direct question—Who instructed the
Board of Trade to depart from the principles
laid down in the ‘Higgins proposal’?”—
Yours etc., Woolgrower.
Another Sidelight on the Dole
Dear Bulletin, —Camped on our pro-
perty was a young man of 23, healthy and
strong, and on the dole,
lie asked my husband for
a job and was given one at
30s. per week. Yesterday
he told my husband he
was not going to work
any more. He had enough
now to pay his expenses
in Sydney for a fortnight
during the Bridge open-
ing, and he expected to
have a bit over. When it
was finished he would
come back. Now, we
can’t afford to go to Syd-
ney for the Bridge open-
ing. Our money has to be
spent paying our butcher,
baker and grocer and Is.
in the £ unemployment
tax. Yet this young man
can be kept by a benevo
lent Government, and b
free to spend anything he
earns on luxuries, while
hard-working men who
toil 13 hours a day can
only just manage to live
decently, having no mar-
gin for luxuries. I sup-
pose there are dozens of
others who, being sure of
their keep, spend any
money they manage to
earn wholly on a “good
time.”—Sincerely, Murre-
win.
Costs of Production
Dear B., —B ankers,
brokers and bum econo-
mists keep telling wool-
growers costs of produc-
tion must come down. In-
side the boundary we
have got our costs down
to bedrock. What are
they doing to help us?
The bankers are beating
the Interest Reduction
Act by a manipulation of
accounts; the brokers
have jumped up ware-
housing charges from Is.
Bd. per pound (about 3s.
7d. per bale) to 7s. and
retained Is. Bd. as a de-
livery charge. So we are
hit to leg for an extra 7s.
per bale; on this season’s
production of approxi-
mately 2.500,000 bales it
means £850,000. On top
of this the buyers’ draft
allowance of lib. per cwt.
grabs another £250,000.
averaging wool at 9d. per
pound. We are garrotted
for £1.100.000 by the
brokers and their allies,
the buyer s.—Y ours,
JuNEE.
The Youth of To-day
Dear Bulletin, —In
1014 I was 18, and, un-
able to obtain my parents’
consent, had to remain in
the C. M. Forces uutil I
turned 21. Then I signed
up. Now at 35 I am in
the volunteer force, and
have come from a four
days’ camp at the new
Sydney site at Glenfield.
five miles from Liverpool.
It sent my mind back to
the youth of 1914-18, and
I studied the new lad
with this result: —
I—He is casual about time.
He wants to be waited on at
meals. Should he be late, he
expects a full issue. He
moans if he can’t get it, and
makes a general nuisaftce of
himself.
2 He wants a talkie to amuse himself. The old
camp-fire concert is too slow. He cannot make his
own fun—a tragedy that may lead to great trouble.
3 He is sex mad. But his knowledge is little
and dangerous.
4 He is lazy. To have to carry water from the
river because the water-cart is not on the spot is
a terrible thing. When the cart is there, and the
water is valuable, he washes his hands and face
and leaves the tap run while he dries himself.
5 He —oh, he “forgot all about that.”
The testing time that comes to all will, I
fear, find our young men wanting.—Yours,
C-DON.
Protection and Costs
Dear Bulletin, —The question to-day is
not Protection or Freetrade, but reasonable
or prohibitive Protection. I make three
objections to our prohibitive Protection: (1)
We must export in order to pay for our jam-
boree, but our present policy is limiting our
markets and inviting retaliation. (2) As a
young country with large resources still
undeveloped, it is essential we should obtain
the best and latest machinery. To manufac-
ture complicated machinery efficiently and
cheaply, and at the same time keep pace
with the latest improvements, it is neces-
sary to have a big market, which it is
obvious no Australian manufacturer can
expect to have for generations, with a few
exceptions, such as farming machinery. It
is essential to the development of both our
primary and secondary industries that, these
tools of trade should be obtainable at tin 1
lowest possible cost. We are therefore hold-
ing back the development of our country by
our present duties on such machinery. (3)
Prohibitive Protection inevitably encourages
inefficiency unless it is followed by price-
fixing. You cannot have efficiency without
competition. There is no possible excuse for
the present high price of Australian manu-
factured goods. The cost of primary pro-
duce, except sugar and perhaps butter, is as
low in Australia as anywhere in the world.
It follows the cost of living must be equally
low. Our secondary industries are either
dreadfully inefficient or else guilty of gross
profiteering. If not, why the high cost of
manufactured articles and the necessity for
a prohibitive tariff? —Yours etc., Übique.
The Abo. and His Aged
Dear Bulletin, —F. M. Bell in suggest-
ing (B. 9/3/’32) that old-age pensions should
go is heartless. Even the Australian abo-
rigines provided for their old people when
they went fighting and foraging. Kincumber
( Woy Woy) means “old people’s camp,” and
is an ideal spot for the purpose, secluded
and beautiful, where food was easily obtain-
able at all times of the year. Some of us
might with advantage take a leaf out of
those books which Nature wrote in the abo. s
brains.—Yours faithfully, Taatooke.
Spruikers on the Loose
Dear Bulletin, —When spending a holi-
day in the Bridge City recently, I heard an
obviously sincere and indignant intorjector
shamefully treated by the numerous support-
ers of a female atheist for daring to voice
his aversion to her profane litterings. Half
a dozen police, including a sergeant, heard
the impious spitfire and took no _ notice. I
have travelled over a large portion of the
earth, but nowhere outside Sydney’s Domain
have I found these noisome orators bellow-
ing with such impunity.—Yours etc.,
P. 0. M. C.
Manufacturers and Distributors
Dear B., —The biggest bar to the manu-
facturer dealing with the consumer is credit.
He must liaim overturn if he is to produce
at a reasonable cost. Manufacturers as a
whole have neither the capital nor the busi-
ness organisation so necessary to the giving
of widespread credit. Terms do not neces-
sarily involve a time-payment agreement.
The warehouse has to make ample allowance
in its price for the fact that it may not see
its money for months. Where credit is
given, provision must also be made for bad
debts. Up goes the price again. Difficul-
ties of distribution are another gulf between
the maker and the user. The warehouse,
with its distributing organisation built on
a hundred lines, sends, say, one dozen rake-
handles to Bourke, half a gross of pick-
handles to Casino, two dozen hammer-
handles to Wagga. But it is also sending
paint, wire-netting, bags, etc., to _ Casino,
Wagga and Bourke at the same time. If
hasn’t got to make a special delivery of the
handles in each instance as the manufacturer
would have to do. Owing to the universal
system of buying on time payment and ex-
tended terms, distribution is an entirely sepa-
rate business from manufacturing, and de-
mands an entirely different organisation and
a different knowledge. Distributing costs
are too high; but they will not be brought
down by cutting out the professional distri-
butor. —Yours, Beta.
FOR SWEET CHARITY’S SAKE.
“The leader of the Federal Labor party in the N.S.W. Leg. Council said that, now that
Parliament had closed its doors, the so-called fruit machines, though pronounced illegal, had again
made their appearance under license, the reason given being that a proportion of the proceeds were
to go to certain charities. Such reasoning, he contended, could be applied to anything which wa,
forbidden by law.”
THE CHIEF SEC.: “But the Law forbids you to rob the public.”
BASHER BILL: “Oh, don’t use that word, Mark—we’re doin’ it for the poor widows and orphans.
CHIEF SEC.: “Say no more, gentlemen. I might have known from your kind faces that you only
intended to do good.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Blue Roses”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Bitter Sweet”
King’s “The Barretts of Wimpole Street”
State Movies and Talkies
$
One Crowded Hour at the R.A.S.
This Showman arrived at the Sydney
R.A.S. in the first hour of the afternoon on
a bright autumn day. Under the grandstand
Oabinof Ministers and high priests of pasture
and agriculture were feeding their faces as
a .prelude to ponderous observations about
this and that. In the cattle, horse, pig and
poultry palaces the denizens, having dined
earlier, either slumbered or meditated. Bulls
of enormous size lay languorously and
breathed stertorously, turning occasionally
an eye, benevolent, irritable or bored, accord-
ing to temperament, upon persons who
heartily slapped their capacious flanks. The
eyelashes of a bull are more beautiful than
those of Ramon Novarro or Marlene Diet-
rich, being much larger and more fascinat-
ingly curved. Also there is a lot more dig-
nity about a bull than there is about even
a Cabinet Minister. It is maintained, more-
over, in spite of circumstances.
It was the Showman’s privilege to wit-
ness the toilette of some of the bulls.
Stern men took their noble charges to
a quadrangular enclosure full of hoses
and taps and, utterly disregarding a
large painted sign which stated that
there must be no washing between 11 a.m.
and 4.30 p.m., proceeded to slosh them and
scrape them and comb them and curl them.
A young bull, coal-black, with a dark and
fiery eye, stood like a rock while he was
hosed, but an old patriarch with a varie-
gated hide and a severe expression resented
having his fur scrubbed the wrong way, and
cavorted disgracefully. His valet grew
angrier and angrier. At last lie-prepared to
speak, and onlookers braced themselves for
something out of the box, as it were, in the
way of lurid profanity. In a bitter, bitter
tone the man hissed “You little fool!” —-just
that, and to a bovine monarch weighing a
“Eyelashes more beautiful than those of
Ramon Novarro.”
couple of tons! The bull quietened imme-
diately and drooped his great neck, over-
whelmed with obloquy and shame. Nor did
he misbehave again, though the man made
all his fur look like astrakhan. Evidently
that man had the right way with bulls.
Horses are of a more sprightly tempera-
ment than bulls and cows. Horses can and
will eat apples. This great discovery was
made by Frith, who for some reason best
known to himself always carries apples in
a paper bag. He noticed that whenever he
approached the horse-lines the noble friends
of man gazed hopefully at his little bag.
At last he offered an apple to a haughty
steed of Arab lineage, and the friend of
man took it with such hearty cordiality that
Frith just saved the hand that has perpe-
trated so many libels on the equine tribe.
But this did not daunt his ardor, and he
distributed all his apples to deserving cases,
including a pony that was so desperately
lonely that it had tried to burrow out of its
stall like a rabbit, and was standing with
its forefeet in a deep pit.
_ A horse in a stall and a horse in the show
ring are two different creatures. There was
a little dark mare, a pacer, drawing a little
two-wheeled vehicle all nickel-plate and
gloss. As soon as a blue ribbon was draped
about her pretty neck she made the circuit
of the ring with the mincing gait of a
ballet dancer, visibly selecting the exact spot
on which she would plant each slender, pol-
ished hoof. Occasionally intricate dance
steps that had been lacking from her previ-
ous display were interwoven, gracefully but
carelessly, as one who should say “Pooh!
I could turn on a threepenny-bit if I had
to. This is nothing.”
Turning from this lively scene to the pig
pavilion all was found to be peaceful save
in one compartment where there was an
indignation meeting. A very matronly pigess,
the mother of 11, bad declared a moratorium
or repudiated her debts or something. Any-
how she lay in such an attitude that her
offspring’s supplies of nutriment were not
available and their screams were lteart-
rending. A kind man who was tacking up
cards in the pen trod on the mother’s tail,
and she turned with a baritone wail of
anguish, resuming relations with her family.
Flies are fond of pigs. Each adult pig has
23 and each infant pig 11.
There are no flies on poultry. Why, nobody
knows. Also nobody knows why fowls have
combs and wattles. These ridiculous appen-
dages of scarlet flesh serve no useful pur-
pose, and must be very easily torn in a
fracas. But they certainly add dignity. Can
it be that the flowing locks of the courtiers
of King Charlie’s day and the full-bottomed
wigs of Judges and Speakers are evolutionary
survivals? They say the bird antedates
mankind by countless millions of years.
Fowls, like horses, range all the way from
very thick to very thin. There are Clydes-
dales among fowls, with the same bushy
frills round the ankles. And racers, so
herring-gutted and spare that you can trace
every bone in their anatomy. But the legs
of a game bantam are set like those of a
bulldog, not like those of a horse, because
the bautam’s job is fight, not flight.
The only dogs on show were Poms, Pekes,
Chiau-chiaus and poodles. These creatures
and their attendants are worthy of study.
They belong, like bulls and horses and
anacondas, to a world apart—seemingly a
“His valet grew angrier and angrier.”
very narrow little world, but aren’t all
worlds a bit narrow? This Showman has
never met anyone who ever knew anyone
who was acquainted with a breed r of toy
dogs who wasn’t convinced that the failure
of his (or more frequently her) doggies" to
win all prizes in all company was due to
bribery, corruption and nepotism of the very
worst description. Judges of. small dogs
wear shirts of steel mail and never drink
tea they haven’t made themselves.
There is a strong industrial section in the
R.A.S., though the connection of industry
with agriculture, judging by the restful
demeanor of the stock and the awful amount
of labor-saving machinery they use on farms,
might not be thought to be very obvious.
Of the utmost educational value are exhibits
which show how things are made. Until a
few days ago, for instance, this Showman
was unaware that the two small tacks that
attach the spat or gasket of a broom to the
place where the straws start are made of
brass, not gold. This was explained by a
gentleman who was making them and who
confessed that, like the late G. Washington,
he had no imagination. Silk stockings, it
was proved by an actual demonstration of
manufacture, are not, like socks, knitted in
tubular form, but in sheets, and are sewn
together at the back. The keys of the very
nicest pianos are made from the tusks of
wild (and, if possible, white) elephants, and
the sinews of animals if prepared one way
look like chalk and, if prepared another
way, like toffee.
The aesthetic side of life is not neglected.
In the Meat Board’s pavilion there is a
tableau of statuary entitled “The Maidens
of Dairying Bring their Products to the
Worker.” The maidens crouch on the ground
in O-shaped attitudes, proffering pats of
butter to the Australian toiler, who has an
apron and an impartial eye. If the chap
who did the Archibald fountain had seen
this group before he set thumb to clay the
whole course of his life might have been
altered.
No reference to the R.A.S., it might be
thought, would be complete without a descrip-
tion of the sheep—the foundation of Aus-
tralia’s prosperity, the backbone of her com-
merce, an'd the pride of the Empire. All
that can be said on this subject, however,
is very short. There was not a sheep on
the premises.
But there were literally dozens o£ side-
shows —a whole street of adventure full of
’em. Piggot’s pugs, the flea circus, the girl
without nerves, the fat boy and girl and
merry-go-rounds whose steam calliopes
entirely revise all hitherto-held ideas as to
music should be seen to be appreciated.
Piggot suavely arranging bouts between his
boxers and all-comers is a negotiator whose
methods might be studied with advantage
by ambitious young politicians—if they ever
study anything.
John Drinkwater, who wrote “Mary
Stuart,” put on by the Gregan McMahons
at Melbourne ,Comedy last week, has a repu-
tation that rests more on his themes than
on the way he handles them. He knows a
lot of facts, real or alleged, about Mary
Stuart, but it never seems to have occurred
to him that she was a human being. Con-
sequently he sentimentalises the facts in an
endeavor to make her out a Splendid Lover,
or his idea of what a Splendid Lover should
be. Actually, the portrait Drinkwater has
“Gazed hopefully at his little bag.”
painted, all unconsciously, is not of a Splen-
did Lover but of a woman who is more in
love with herself than with anybody else.
Her idea of love is so exalted that no man
she meets fulfils the prescription, and it is
doubtful if any man could fulfil the prescrip-
tion. Mary rants about the aspirations of
her soul and the sad deficiencies of men
like a paranoiac suffering from delusions of
grandeur or a Marie Corelli with a father
obsession. Her reasons for allowing Rizzio,
her poetical secretary, to go out and get
murdered are purely egotistical. Consider-
ing that he is represented as one of the men
who are not grand enough to merit Mary’s
love, it is a hit rough on the unfortunate
gentleman. Later she allows Bothwell to
risk his head in her service, but makes it
clear to him that he is another Poor F'ish,
the best of a bad job lot of male inadequates.
It is not made clear whether she had any-
thing to do with the blowing up of Darnley,
her husband, but a woman in her state of
mind would be capable of blowing up the
entire male population of Scotland in her
search for the ideal soul-mate. As a matter
of fact, the historical Mary Stuart wasn’t
above flirting with old John Knox when he
came to lecture her on the disadvantages of
hell-fire and other drawing-room topics ; and
Knox found the lovely .sinner so interesting
that he came back several times to continue
the discourse. The performance at the
Comedy was much better than the play.
Norman Shepherd, as Darnley, gave an
eminently satisfying demonstration of mani-
acal hatred of a wife who would have driven
almost any man to the nearest bar, if not
to violence. He was one of those villains
who unexpectedly earn the sympathy of an
audience against the wishes of the play-
wright because of the unreality of the hero-
ine. The gentle Rizzio, who is as out of
place at the Scottish court as a Communist
at a meeting of the New Guard, was in the
.safe hands of Frederick Hughes, and Norman
Wister’s healthy and energetic Bothwell
made an effective contrast with the sickly
Peter Pannism of his royal mistress. Not
even a great actress could have made a con-
vincing character of Mary Stuart, and
■ Nancy Ford is hereby given the benefit of
the doubt, for a lugubrious exhibition.
* * *
An interesting sign of the times is the
great success of “The Barretts of Wimpole-
street ’ at Melbourne King’s. No recent
show coming under the heading of serious
drama has received so much earnest atten-
tion from the public. “The Barretts” is not
a great play, and it has its dull moments,
but on the whole it does provide what the
intelligent playgoer craves for —an emotional
experience derived from an intelligent view
of life. When the talkies first hit Aus-
tralia legit, happened to be in the doldrums.
The fleshanblood stage was mainly con-
cerned in dishing up a series of dull Ameri-
can mnsicomedies. With the exception of
Dion Boucicault and Irene Vanbrugh, few
entrepreneurs dared to approach the public
with anything more solid in the way of
nourishment than plays of the Pollyanna
school and revivals of former favorites.
Maurice Moscovitch was engaged in making
“Turned with a baritone wail of anguish.”
pots of money out of Edgar Wallace. People
who were looking for better entertainment
naturally turned to the talkies. At first
they were satisfied with the novelty of hear-
ing the flat shadows on the screen becoming
miraculously vocal, and kindly overlooked
the fact that what they said was silly and
that Clara Bow made noises like a con-
crete-mixer. A few of the plays were less
imbecile than others, and hopes were enter-
tained tha't the new art would grow out of
its swaddling clothes if only the world had
patience. Lately, however, the discriminat-
ing playgoer has been losing his optimism.
A succession of disappointments has made
him chary of going to a movie on the off-
chance of not being insulted, deafened,
appalled or bored to extinction. He lias pre-
ferred to wait and see what the critics say,
and as most of the dailies are kind to their
advertisers the critics haven’t always been
the guides they should be. Talkie showmen
are even more untrustworthy. Having been
accustomed to deal in hogwash all their lives
they are incapable of recognising good stuff
even when they get it. They are like dealers
in cheap crockery suddenly obliged to vend
Doulton. In their sales talk they generally
appeal to the lowest instincts of their poten-
tial audience. There are no movie entrepre-
neurs, with the prestige of a Boucicault or a
Brow;n Potter or even of a Leon Gordon.
One result of the general decay of public
entertainment has been the growth of private
play-reading circles and amateur dramatic
societies. Most of them suffer, however, from
dearth of funds, talent and stage accommoda-
tion. It looks as if the success of “The
Barretts” is in the nature of a comeback.
It only needs a modicum of courage on the
part of the Firm to make the renaissance
permanent.
? ¥ ¥
To-morrow (Thursday) evening at Sydney
Savoy Theatre Doris Fitton’s Independent
players will appear in C. Iv. Munroe’s “At
Mrs. Beam’s,” which will be preceded by
“A Masque of Old Sydney,” by Kathleen
Moneypenny. Four performances of the
double bill will be given; “Othello” will be
played for one night on April 23, after which
the co. will settle down to six or seven
weeks of “The Circle of Chalk,” a Chinese
play. On Saturday evening at St. James’s
Hall, Scott Alexander’s New Sydney Rep.
Soc. will put on “Black Bondage,” a sequel
to ““White Cargo,” written by Mrs. Alon
Hynes, a Sydney lady. “Cynera” will be
presented for the last time this evening by
the Pickwick Theatre Group, and its place
will be taken at the Savoy next Wednesday
(April 6) by Noel Coward’s “The Vortex,”
with Patricia Pantin in the lead. The
Australian Play Society, with which is in-
corporated the Community Playhouse, has
already begun its One-act Play Competition.
Twenty-four one-acters are being staged over
five evenings (April 2, 5. 6 and 13 are the
remaining dates) at the’ /Eolian Hall, 264
Pitt-street.
¥
Winsloe Hall’s light opera “Lochinvar”
has had a jolly week at Adelaide Royal,
with the composer conducting, and Esmond
George producing. James Currie sang well
as the hero; Stella Sobels alternated with
Beryl Ivekwiclt as heroine, and the Con.
chorus was in great voice.
The Palette,
The first show in The Bulletin’s Mac-
leod Gallery, now open to the public, intro-
duces Sydney art-lovers to a place where
every picture is hung in a good light, and
where it is not necessary to do jiu-jitsu
contortions to get a fair view even of glassed
“A gentleman who, like the late G. Wash-
ington, had no imagination."
paintings. The show itself is a collection
of over 250 pictures representing, if not
every Australian painter of the first class,
every school, style and period of Australian
art. Longstaff is represented by “Breaking
the News,” some dashing sketch portraits
and a landscape or two. Strecton’s works
include “Sydney Harbor, 1896,” a panoramic
picture in which the painter exhibits a
W'histleresque brilliancy. Then there are some
of the best of Bernard Hall’s nudes; Norman
Lindsay at his finest as a water-colorist and
pen draughtsman; a group of some of J. J.
Hilder’s most colorful sketches; B. E.
Minns picturing abos. and the bush with a
loving brush; R. W. Phillips, in flower
studies that look like mirror reflections of
the real thing; Will Ashton, Lister Lister
and Penleigh Boyd in their happiest moods,
and Norman Carter extracting pictorial
values from bricks and mortar. Some of the
Meldrumites—Max himself, Leason, Cola-
ban and Clarice Beckett —give their view of
things seen, and there are worth-while offer-
ings by Hans Heysen. Syd Long, Fred Leist,
Harold Herbert, Rupert Bunney, Tom
Roberts, Dattilo Rubbo, John Rowell, W. B.
Mclnnes, Percy Lindsay, J. R, Jackson and
IL R. Gallop. Blamire Young is repre-
sented by a characteristic phantasy, and
and there are drawings by “Hop,” and Phil
May. Of especial interest to The Bulletin
are* Julian Ashton’s fine portrait of “Hon.”
and William Macleod’s bust of himself —
a remarkably clever piece of sculpture. One
of Macleod’s most successful landscapes.
“Seal Rock, Phillip Island,” is also hung.
There are some sketches by George Lambert
and beautifully modelled statuettes by Ber-
tram Mackennal and Webb Gilbert, 'if the
collection were all that remained of Aus-
tralian art this continent would have no
need to be ashamed of its century and a
third’s output.
A large collection of etchings, aquatints
and wash drawings of the Harbor Bridge
in various stages of construction is on view
at the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney. The
artist, Jessie 0. Traill, has a good grasp of
general perspective and a sense of the drama-
tic, but she has the usual lofty scorn of the
landscape painter for engineering and archi-
tectural details, and in many instances that
scorn is fatal to her intention. The difference
between drawing a tree and a steel bridge
is that bad drawing of the tree may be
blamed by the viewer of the picture upon
Mother Nature, but if a brattice or a rivet
is misplaced in the engineering subject a
child of five can see that it is astray. So
far 17,860 persons have made drawings of
the Sydney Bridge. Only one of them has
got it right—an obscure chap in Dorman
Long’s drafting office, who did the plans the
builders worked from.
Railways Commissioner Clapp was to
have opened Louis McCubbin’s show of Bar-
rier Reef treasure trove at the Fine Arts,
Melbourne, but he failed to arrive, unlike
his trains, which do turn up after a time.
Still, it is a fact worth recording that pic-
tures look exactly the same after some
eminent personage has blessed them as be-
fore. McCubbin’s pictures are full of bril-
liant color, but the effect is more often of
bright paint laid on flat canvas than of the
ornate hues that Nature spreads on sea and
land. Some of the subjects tackled by the
artist are obviously beyond the capacity of
even the greatest brush. A foreground of
gaily-tinted fishes, coral formations and
ocean flowers seen through the translucent
veil of the sea, with a background of ocean,
sky and island, would drive a Corot to
despair. However, the National Travel
Association, which commissioned the artist,
wanted pictures that would induce the tourisi;
to spend good money travelling to see the
wW finals, and in that respect the work suc-
ceeds.


>ess
§6s
s
200 Miles GRAND PRIX
Phillip Island (Vic.), 14th March, 1932
C.O.R achievements
in Australia’s Motoring Classic
HE 200 miles of breathless speed
JL which makes the Australian
Grand Prix the motoring classic of
the Southern Hemisphere is a search-
ing test of quality in men, machines
and motor spirit. Since the inception
of this annual road-racing contest,
the success of C.O.R has been con-
sistent and significant —and the 1932
results again establish this splendid
spirit as “The Choice of Champions.”
Let these achievements be your
guide in your choice of motor spirit
for your car. For there is no harder
test than this—the relentless de-
mands of high-compression, high-
speed, racing motors calling for
tremendous acceleration —for power,
and yet more power, for hours on
end . . . unhesitatingly and unfalter-
ingly.
Official C.O.R Results . ..
Of the ten competitors who finished
the course, five used C.O.R.
MOTOR SPIRIT
The vital Spirit . . . ultra powered
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Limited).
Agents: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: DALGETY & CO. LIMITED
Clis/S6/Si
SHADOW SHOWS.
Sydney Prince Edward put on a British-
Australian bill last week, and though the
writer went to praise he stayed to scoff.
Most of the so-called' Australian master-
pieces are reproductions of U.S.A. antiques.
\n alleged Aussie Rascal sings ragtime at a
piano. He wears a tuxedo. _ and on the
instrument reposes a wide-brimmed straw
hat which, though all right for Fifth-
avenue, would provoke rude noises hi Lastie-
reagh-street. His principal item is one of
those ballads about the depresh that, the
inhabitants of the U.S.A.’s flannel night-
gown belt have been whining for years—
all about a whip-poor-will, over the hill;
where bright eyes are shining after repin-
ing for happy days that have come again,
because there’s always sunshine after, ram.
The swimming and diving short is practi-
cally a replica of a Yankee one that Sydney
saw weeks ago, and the man at the Wur-
litzer plays “Australian melodies” which
are as American as doughnuts. The only
genuine Australian film is “Billy Bluegum
(with some first-class dialogue by Kenneth
Slessor), and no doubt for that reason it
aroused nearly as much enthusiasm on the
night this deponent attended as the since-
banned De Groot picture. There’s no hope
in the world for derivative Australian
movies. Unless local directors can provide
stuff with a local atmosphere, inspiration
and voice, local picture patrons will go else-
where. Patriotism, as Nurse Cavell observed
in another connection, is not enough.
“Man of Mayfair,” which follows, con-
tains nearly all the faults of previous Eng-
lish talkies —faults that have enabled Holly-
wood to beat Elstree, up to the present, not
merely in Canada and Australia but even
in Britain. The story, tempo, dialogue and
business are hopelessly stagey and old-
fashioned. Jack Buchanan, as Lord vVilliam
Kingsland, conceives an honorable passion
for Joan Barry, who is a London musical-
comedy star by night and a waitress m
her mother’s country teashop by day. The
old lady knows nothing of her child’s fame,
and the show doesn’t appear to have
matinees or rehearsals. The yearning of
Nor ah Swinburne for Mr. Buchanan causes
most of the complications. She keeps burst-
ing into his flat, heedless of the jealousy
of her drink-crazed husband, and she also
tracks him to the teashop. where he waits on
her friends disguised in a bee-farmer’s veil,
pours tea over an elderly man’s head, sits
on a bowler-hat, and performs other comi-
calities that were yellgetters under Queen
Victoria. H'is work completely lacks the
element of surprise. For example, when he
pushes Miss Swinburne out of his flat you
know exactly what will follow —that he will
lean weakly against the wall, give at the
knees, pull his collar out as though choking,
adjust his tie, and stagger across to the
butler for a drink. English comedians have
been going through this ritual in similar
circumstances for generations. A pity, as it
is a pleasure to listen to the good-looking
young man’s speaking-voice (also to the
voices of his colleagues), and the sound and
photography are splendid.
¥
M.-G.-M.’s “Street Scene,” at Melbourne
State, is a demonstration of what can be
done in a talkie without dragging in Niagara
or the American fleet or other aids to so-
called realism. The entire action takes
place at the front door of a tenement build-
ing in New York. Estelle Taylor appears
as a wife who solaces herself for a gloomy
and suspicious husband (David Landau) by
having an affair with a milk inspector. The
husband returns home unexpectedly,, shoots
the wife and her lover and then flees from
justice into the basement of the apartment
house. The chorus to the tragedy is pro-
vided by the inmates, who gossip out of
windows with other inmates cooling them-
selves in a heat-wave on the pavement.
There are an old philosopher who deplores
the evils of jealousy, an ecstatic Italian, a
romantic young man in love with Estelle’s
daughter, and sundry cadaverous symbols of
the envious herd instinct. The photographer
has picked all these up with a rapidity that
the stage play by Elmer Rice could not
possibly equal, and the producer has woven
his shots into as simple and coherent a pic-
ture as “The Front Page.”
* V *
“The Last Company” (Ufa), which is
being revived at Sydney Bridge Theatre, is
one of those rare films that one can witness
a second time without being bored, a great
deal of its effect being due to the magni-
ficent acting of Conrad Veidt. He is a
captain in charge of 12 Prussian soldiers
left in a mill to cover the retreat of their
comrades. The scenes before the unequal
conflict are full of suspense and the short
but stirring clash is vividly told. There is a
gii’l in the story, but the love interest is inci-
dental and unemphasised. The actors, all
Germans, speak English with commendable
clearness.
¥ %■
The Roxy Theatre (Sydney),, rechrist-
ened the Mayfair, commenced its career
under its changed name with an all-British
programme. The film of the evening was
“Carnival” (British Dominions), with
Matheson Lang in the lead. Some defect
made it impossible to hear more than half
the dialogue. The story deals with Silvio
Steno (Matheson Lang), a popular actor,
and Simonetta (Dorothy Bouchier), his
young and giddy wife. Both are billed to
appear in “Othello” at a theatre in Venice
during carnival time; Silvio is to play the
title-role, _ and his wife Desdemona. Upon
the evening before the opening performance
Simonetta asks Silvio to take her to the
carnival, but he has to go to the bedside of
a dying relative, and Simonetta goes to the
merry-making with Count Andrea (Joseph
Schildkraut). one of her many admirers.
Silvio misses his train, and returns that even-
ing. During an interval in the play he
learns of Andrea’s part in the escapade of
the night before. In the murder scene he
attempts to kill Desdemona in real earnest,
and the curtain is rung down, Silvio falling
in a fit. In the dressing-room the pair patch
up their differences. Matheson Lang works
the piece up to a powerful climax. The
photography is particularly effective.
* * *
“Splinters in the Navy” (British Domin-
ions), which is intended to keep Mayfair
audiences in good humor, is concerned with
the adventures of two able seamen, Joe
Crabbs (Sydney Howard) and Bill Mivvins
(Frederic Bentley), during their hours of
ease, devoted mainly to booze and flat-footed
flirtations. This material is padded out with
a concert aboard the ship and a boxing
tournament.
* * *
“Girls About Town” (Paramount), the
principal item on Sydney Regent’s pro-
gramme, features Kay Francis and Lilyan
Tashman as Wanda and Marie, a pair of
“entertainers” employed by a New York
business magnate to be nice to men with
whom he does business. They are taken on
their employer’s private yacht to use their
arts on Ben Thomas (Eugene Pallette),
middle-aged, portly and rich, and Jim Baker
(Joel McCrea), Thomas’s understudy. Marie,
who is partnered with Ben, sets out to do
some dollar-gouging for herself, which re-
quires a lot of tact, for Ben is a skinflint.
Wanda also has hopes of relieving Jim of
some of his cash, but finds that she cannot
be mercenary with such a handsome young
man. Jim is inclined to be standoffish, until
Wanda gets into difficulties while swimming,
and he saves her life. He asks her to marry
him, and she consents to do so as
soon as she can get rid of her husband.
Wanda’s husband arrives and black-
mails Jim. Jim cold-shoulders Wanda, sus-
pecting that she put her husband up to the
job. Wanda learns of her husband’s ras-
cally trick, sells her wardrobe and jewels,
and repays the money. About the same time
she discovers that her husband had divorced
her secretly in Mexico two years before.
Matters being thus nicely simplified, these
charming people drift to a happy ending.
The very capable Lionel Atwill is the re-
deeming feature of “The Silent Witness”
(Fox), the other Regent attraction. He is
Sir Austin Howard, the easy-going father of
Anthony (Bramwell Fletcher) who is infat-
uated with Nora Selmer (Greta Nissen).
When Anthony discovers that Nora has a
husband he loses his head and tries to
twist hers off. Later her dead body is
found. Anthony flees in terror to his home,
where he confesses to his father. The police
arrive and confront the father with various
clues which tend to make it seem that it
was he Avho committed the murder. At the
trial a witness comes forward who says
that in the capacity of one of Nora’s
many admirers he was present behind some
curtains during the whole proceedings.
Anthony only sent the lady into a faint. It
was Nora’s husband, returning just after the
silly youth had fled, who did the deed. Mel-
bourne-born Lowden Adams plays the Judge
in the piece.
* * * ,
In Universal's “A House Divided” (Syd-
ney Haymarket), Walter Huston is again
the stern father, Seth Law, who is a law unto
himself in a storm-wracked fishing village.
After burying his wife, Seth drags his
broken-hearted son, Matt (theatrically ren-
dered by Kent Douglass), to a pub to make
him “drunk and a man,” but knocks him out
instead; then the old gentleman answers a
view mat. advt. Ruth (Helen Chandler I
arrives. She is attracted to Matt, but Seth
frightens her, and she goes through the mar-
riage ceremony, well-nigh speechless. She
however, finds her voice at bedtime, and Matt
rushes to lier rescue. In the brawl Seth
accidentally crashes over a balustrade, so
losing the use of his legs. Thereafter he
insists on getting about by pulling himself
along with his hands, trailing his useless
legs behind him. One wild night, seeing a
light in Matt’s room, Seth drags himself up
the stairs, to discover Ruth, storm-scared,
there in Matt’s arms. Ruth escapes to the
trawler. Seth attacks Matt. A rope snap-
ping, the trawler drifts away with the help-
less Ruth. Matt sounds a warning, and Seth,
writhing down to the wharf, is roped into a
boat by seamen and in the last second is
joined by Matt. Then Seth rows through
tempestuous seas towards the trawler, which
piles up on a reef. Matt dives a-nd swims to
it just in time to save Ruth from washing
away. And, of course, the rowing-boat cap-
sizes and Seth is drowned.


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ulysses . . 14,500 tons, April 23
f Euripides . . 15,000 „ May 3
*Asca'nius . . 10,000 „ June 13
fThemistocles 12,500 „ Sept. 6
•First class only. fFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.11.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
„ *f E T OFFICE BRISBANE.
Wuh office B at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank oners the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
m
6
D.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local.
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a m'anner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Canal”: We don’t seem to be giving
Binghi much in return for pinching his
country. In Westralia three half-caste abos.,
for “attempting to steal one sheep,” were
sentenced to six montns’ imprisonment with
hard labor. It was shown that they were
starving, some hitch having occurred in the
issue to them of Government rations. This,
the Judge said, was no excuse. The Pro-
tector thought the accused would be better off
in gaol than out during the winter. A news-
paper report of the incident concludes: “The
three prisoners, who were poorly clad and
shod, were led from the dock into the wait-
ing ‘Black Maria’ like so many f-rightefied
sheep.”
“Hattie Hop”: Seeing a number of red
sugar-ants racing about on a- table which
stands in my kitchen beneath a window, I
mixed borax and .sugar and sprinkled it
in a corner of the sill. My presence
frightened the ants away, but immediately
one larger than the rest came down the wall
near the window, reached the corner,
examined the mixture, then, without eating
any of it, hurried round the corner again
and up the wall about 12 inches, where he
ENCOURAGING.
FACETIOUS PUNTER: “ Nice-lookin’ horse you got! D’you think he’d drop dead if we
were to put tuppence on him?”
met a small ant, about half the size of
the majority. After a brief word with this
one, he hastened down to the skirting-
board and talked to a second small ant
there. Then he went his way, and did not
appear again. He passes out of our story,
as the novelists say. The ant on tlfe wall
ran down to the sill, and, standing on
his hind legs in the corner, tapped out a
telegraphic message with his antennae on
the window frame, gazing upwards expect-
antly like a linesman at the foot of a tele-
graph pole looking at his .assistant on the
top. This resulted in bringing down 10 ants
of average size to inspect the borax and
sugar, over which tlfey manifested intense
excitement. Meanwhile the ant of the
skirting-board had collected about the same
number of unemployed and conducted them
to the heap. After this two scouts
went off on other business, and did
not take part in the labor, which the rest
began with a will, carrying away the mix-
ture, grain by grain, through the scarcely
perceptible space between the window frame
and the sash. They would all disappear
and then return, bringing others with them,
until about a hundred were mobilised and
engaged in the work. In a week’s time they
had all gone, and I saw no more ants in
my kitchen for a fortnight. I should like
to know why the very intelligent Boss Ant
and his lieutenants did not have enough
sense to know that borax is not good for
their community?
* # * *
“Selma”: The action of the old cat who
encompassed the death of one of her kittens
(B. l(>/3/’32) probably had more in it than
met the human eye. I knew of a similar
case, in which the mother removed one of
her kittens a long distance from- home and
left it to its fate. The children of the
household followed her and rescued the
kitten, which by their care grew to the
stage of being able to eat the food they
provided. Then it became evident there
was something the matter with the mite,
and careful tests proved that it was blind.
The mother had early discovered this fact,
and in her wisdom decided the world was
a chilly spot for an afflicted cat.
'A- ❖ sic
“Mako”: An old fisherman I knew had
definite views ony how tb dval with an
octopuY. lie was fishing off the Maoriland
Coast when a big specimen flung its arms
round his dinghy and displayed every evi-
dence .of an intention of eating the occupant
for dinner. The old gentleman remained
calm, though his small craft was being
slowly submerged at the bow, and when the
monster raised an evil head above the gun-
wale to view his prospective fare he was
ready for action. Taking his small bait-
chopper in a steady, hand he aimed just
above the beak, and hit. the octopus a great
blow. Then he chopped the tentacles with
his knife, and had the satisfaction of seeing
the enemy let go and sink, while he rowed
back to shore to expound his theory con-
cerning the vital spot in octopodes to his
brothers in piscatorial craft.
“Mug”: “W.Q.’s” prad (B. 17/2/’32)
that swam five miles in two sections was
nothing remarkable. Some time back, five
horses on Fraser’s Island (Q.), desirous of
a few days’ holiday on the mainland, swam
the 10 miles over Ilervey Bay to near
Urang'an (Pt. Maryborough). After social
intercourse with the mainland mokes they
tvaded out to the sand spit and swam back
to the island. The deep waters of this
bay are shark-infested, but the horses didn’t
seem to have any fear on that score.
THE IDEAL.
“’Ow d’you like yer new wither, Meg?”
“Good oh! I mightn’t he in the ’ouse for all the notice she takes of me."
“Ullin”: The effects of concussion are very
like those of intoxication. There’s the case
of a jockey named Williffins who was riding
at Canooer Bridge, near St. Arnaud (Vic.),
in 1886, and was thrown from his mount.
Picked up and removed to the Bangor Hotel,
where he remained unconscious and appa-
rently dead for a few hours, he was subse-
quently taken to the St. Arnaud Hospital
by a kin'dly farmer. It was midnight when
the patient was admitted. H'e was declared
dead and placed in the morgue. There
he remained until the morning, when the
wardsman found him riding a race, as it
were, on the cold slab, making play with an
imaginary whip and yelling. “Come on ; come
on !” He was dazed for a few weeks after-
wards, hut finally recovered.
* * *
“Wai-Hoi”: On top of Fort Hill, which
overlooks the Darwin (N.T.) jetty, is a
relic of Goyder’s survey of the North in
1800. this being the grave of J. W. O.
Bennett, a survey
draftsman who was
speared by blacks at
Fred’s Pass on the
Adelaide River. Ben-
nett had a penchant for
palling up with the
darkies in the mistaken
belief that they would
never harm him. Goyder
warned him twice about
the risks he was run-
ning, but' during May,
1869, Bennett allowed a
mob of the blacks to
come into his camp and
was badly perforated.
Brought into Darwin he
died there at the end of
the month. In the
same grave on Fort Hill
lie the remains of
Richard Hazard, the
cook of Goyder’s party,
who went out to fever
and shakes. Along with
Goyder, too, was
Schultze, a naturalist,
who grafted to some
order, for he got over 8000 .specimens of
bugs, beetles, birds, plants, sponges, corals
and Heaven knows what else, most of which
wont to Adelaide Museum and the balance
to the British Museum.
❖ * & $
“Rusty”: The amount of currency which
circulates in the Vic. Mallee these days is so
small that the cashing of a cheque for £lO
is a matter of difficulty. Barter has been
resorted to. A faVmer in a small
way near Annuello worked for a bigger
cocky for some time, and on the strength
of his employment ran a bill at the store.
At the end of the job the employer couldn’t
pay in cash ; he offered sheep to equivalent
value, and these were accepted. The store-
keeper wouldn’t take sheep, but agreed to
accept wheat in settlement. So the sheep
were swapped to a third farmer for wheat.
The storekeeper sent the wheat to the flour
mi’ll and received flour in return, the mill-
owner keeping the offhl as payment for the
gristing. The Australian pound was the
basis of value in the transactions, but that
was all it had to do with the wheels of
commerce.
Si S= Si S:
“Yarri”: Railwaymen get a slight shock
now and again when they come upon a
package marked: “Dangerous. Live Death-
adders.” The deadly travellers come mostly
from the south-western parts of Queensland,
and are destined for the Walter and Eliza
Hall Institute, Melbourne, where they are
milked and the venom used in the manu-
facture of antidotes. The catcher is Tom
Eades, popularly known as Pambo, who was
one-time reptile-keeper at Melbourne Zoo.
For the last five years he has made regular
summer trips to different parts of the coun-
try—Mount Gambier (S.A.) for copper-
heads, Queensland for adders, and so on.
Adders are common in N.S.W., but south-
west Q. is Death-adder Corner! On that
prolific ground Fades has captured 140 in
a month. Pambo returned recently from a
flying trip "to that haunt with 47. among a
collection of various sorts that included a
total stranger.
:j: ❖ ❖ #
“Shugger”: The details of the MX. kauri-
trees given by “Sylvia” (B. 2/3/’32) fade
almost into insignificance when compared
with trees growing in the Lamington
National Parkj MacPh'erson Range, s.-e.
Q’land. In this remarkable area scrub
box-trees have been found with a girth up
to 76ft. In a. spot known as “The Giant’s
Garden” there are several close together
with girths each over 50ft.; and on one
tree there are carbuncles large enough to
hold seven or eight men. The trees still
appear to be quite young, though they must
be hundreds of years old. Even more re-
markable than the giant scrub box-trees are
the ancient Antarctic beech-trees (Fag us
moorei), which grow in family groups around
about 4000 ft. elevation in the Lamington
National Park. These trees are credited
with an average age of 3000 to 4000 years:
and they look it. They are great, gnarled,
moss-covered, damp masses of twisted timber,
with tremendous boughs spreading over vast
circles. The particular species existing in
the Lamington National Park is supposed to
exist also in Tierra del Fuego. One of
the features associated with these trees is
the beech orchid, which will not grow on any
other tree, and is of exquisite beauty.
THE MYALL IN PRISON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lone, lone, and lone I stand,
With none to hear my cry,
As the black feet of the night
Go walking down the sky.
The stars they seem but dust
Under those passing feet.
As they, for an instant’s space,
Flicker and flame and fleet.
So, on my heart, my grief
Hangs with the weight of doom,
And the black feet of its night
Go walking through my room.
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—-Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
Victoria: THE WESTINUHUUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House.
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
(Opp. Railway Station'),
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms
'• -
m
:
KM
B?r.<! ;si j!»j
il It
HI
35 $3
II
0
I
200 Baths
Melbourne's Mast Modern Hotel.
Tariff per day:
Room and meals from 22/6
Room and Breakfast from 12/G
“Mako”: Though Maoriland knows no-
thing of the various ants that plague Aus-
tralia, the city of Auckland spends at least
one unpleasant day annually, when flying
ants invade the countryside in millions and
make life hideous for about six hours. These
small-winged creatures, asserted by scientists
to be out on a mating flight, get into the
eyes and hair, send horses nearly frantic,
invade houses and offices, crowd over all
furniture and machinery, and generally make
their presence resentfully felt, particularly
as they sting sharply and enthusiastically.
By evening, wingless and no longer aggres-
sive, they crawl nobody seems to know
whither, and are not seen again until the
next season.
“Murrungurry”: Podgee, a
Richmond River (N.S.W.)
black, was a cunning thief, and
it was never safe to leave any
small article on the ground
while he was about, though he
never stooped to pick up any-
thing. Through a window one
day I saw him, as he was walk-
ing past the house, step on a
spoon that a youngster had
dropped, and the spoon van-
ished. Podgee had not paused
in his stride, and apparently
was looking straight ahead. His
method was to grip an object
under his toes, double his leg
up behind his back, and trans-
fer the object to his hand while
pretending to scratch his foot.
Next he scratched his head and
thrust the article into his
tangled hair. At a fencers’
camp he was talking to three
men who were having a smoke
at their galley fire. A pocket-
knife belonging to one of them
lay on the ground. Podgee
planted his foot on it, and at
the first opportunity threw it
behind him with his toes; it
was caught by his watchful ally,
Mrs. Podgee, who had sat down
a few yards back. Unfortu-
nately, another member of the gang was
coming in from that direction, and the cun-
ning pair left in disorder.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Dimon”: Every year millions of mullet
go up the Richmond River (N.S.W.) to
spawn. I have seen the procession packing
the stream from bank to bank for hours,
those on top swimming with their heads
partly out of the water, and rippling the
surface for miles; and I remember when the
blacks gathered in mobs along the river for
a big feast. Thousands of mullet were
speared, many were jagged with hooks, and
NOTHING MORE, THANK YOU.
SHOP ASSISTANT: “Anything besides socks, sir? There’s a beautiful line here of night-
garments, now.”
LIJE POLWIDDY: “No, m’boy, don’t want none o’ they. I bain’t no society feller; when
evenin’ comes, I do put on nightshirt an’ go to bed.”
some w r ere netted. Gins and youngsters
took part in the fish harvest, and the camps
reeked day and night with the spoil, cooked
and uncooked. One season the travelling
multitudes were caught by a sudden flood,
and the lower reaches of the river were
whitened with tens of thousands of dead
mullet, which had been smothered through
their gills becoming clogged with mud before
MAKING THEM FEEL AT HOME.
DAD (apologising to city visitors for dining in the kitchen) : “You see, me an’ mother
alus ’ave our meals in, ’ere. It’s too much for mother, I tell ’er, to be carryin’
the saucepans back and forth into the dinin’-room.”
they could reach the cleansing waters of the
ocean. Besides these dangers of spawning
time, the mullet had to run the gauntlet of
swarms of waiting sharks when entering
and leaving the river.
* * ¥
“Huffin-Guffin”: I have made a discovery.
This country has been credited —or debited—
with the origin of the “sundowner/’ But
the custom, if not the name, goes much
further back into history than we do. In
the reign of Good Queen Bess, relieving
officers under the Poor Laws were bound to
afford immediate relief to urgent needs of
the poor, even though they did not belong
to that particular parish. This gave the
professional sturdy rogue and lusty vaga-
bond his chance. It was found that “At a
late period of the day, when there is no time
for inquiry into the truth of his. story, he
applies for relief, and the relieving officer
gives him an order for the vrorkhouse, which
the beggar knows ensures him some food
and a bed without any cost.”
¥ ¥ ¥ *
“Wandi”: Has anyone ever hived a swarm
of native bees? These tiny honey-makers
used to be plentiful in the north-eastern dis-
tricts of N.S.W., where two species were
known to the abos. as cobbi and boo-yan.
They are smaller than the house fly, and
stingless, but they make a. worrying fight
when their nest is being robbed, swarming
over the robber like flying-ants. The dark-
brown comb is formed in globular lumps,
divided into large round cells, and the honey
has a delicious flavor. I saw one swarm
transferred to a squattage garden. To do
that a section of the tree containing the nest
was sawn off, carted to the homestead, and
erected in the garden like a post, the bees
being thus left in their natural home. It
was kept as a curiosity, as the nest could
not be robbed without destroying it.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“E.S.C.”: The Fijian natives seem to be
particularly careful to guard the remains of
their ancestors from prying eyes. Many
years ago, when living in Fiji, I noticed that
after a heavy shower the water always
disappeared rapidly from a certain area near
my house, although pools remained else-
where for some time. Suspecting a cave, I
made a search for its entrance, and at last
discovered it, concealed by thick scrub.
Armed with candles, I set out to explore the
cave, but one glance into its interior satis-
fied me, for it was literally packed with
skeletons. Accompanied by a friend, I de-
cided to make a further inspection some days
later, but on entering # the cave found it
empty. My first visit was evidently
observed, and a large fatigue party must
have been organised at night by the guard-
ians of the grim secret to remove the bones
to some better hidden spot,
* * * *
“Tingalpa”: South-eastern Queensland is
at present experiencing an unusual visitation
of flying-foxes. The brutes are plentiful
enough at any time, but this year they swarm
in millions. One of their chief refuges is
the mangrove-lined shore of Moreton Bay,
and it is one of the regular ceremonials ol
the day in the many towns dotted along the
coast of the bay to turn out just before
sunset to see the winged armies taking flight
for the orchards to the south For miles
the sky is dotted with the flying horde, which
continues to pass overhead long after dark,
Curiously enough they do not seem to return
in the same fashion, though they have been
watched for, and even m the darkness the
noise of tlieir innumerable wings is easily
heard. They must manage it somehow, for
it is a rare thing to see one of the big bats
a-wing after daybreak,
* * * *
« H erpes” ; The death of a Gosford
c\ bov from snakebite has served to
' • ,1: J t
call public attention to the little-known fac
that anti-venins are now being manufactured
in Melbourne under the auspices of the
" alter and Hliza Hall Trust. An effort
™ as “ ade \° obtam s ° ma in Gosford case
bu 1 t though some of the Sidney hosp t. .•
! lod . small supplies they were not available
m time , The anti-yemns are expensive, and
can b ? made ™ , small quantities An-
other handicap to their use is the fact that
,?™ le bas be a special antidote foi every
dl ?f re , r ? t s^. eei, jf snabe > the anti-venin fo
a black snake being quite useless m the case
a tiger, and vice versa. It is thus lm-
Iterative to quickly identify the spec es of
snake inflicting the bite, and that is not
always possible.
“X.S.”: The tin-bare method of parting
with your money is forbidden in Victoria,
but ] OV e i ail gij S a t lawmakers. A surprised
, ~
policeman at Cheltenham recently saw a
disturbance in a paddock. Closer inspec-
|jon re vealed an improvised course in full
working order. At one end of the ground a
p,i C y C ] e was mounted on a stand. Round the
rear w lieel, which had been stripped of its
tyre, passed an endless belt which extended
the other end of the paddock. On the belt
wag SUS p eil <Jed a stuffed rabbit, and by dint
0 f f ur i ous pedalling an operator seated on
t b e velocipede was able to propel the “hare”
across the field at a speed sufficient to
rouse the emulation of the half-dozen
j lo unds assembled. There was a large audi-
ence 0 f sportsmen and betting was vigorous,
Twenty pounds and costs was the beak’s
sen tence on the ingenious inventors.
DOWN THE MARANOA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’re drifting down the Maranoar through
lazy summer days,
With cattle bound for far-away Moree;
From dawn to dusk they dawdle where the
cypress sighs and sways,
Through greying grasses swishing to the
Ever steadily we follow, often sitting half
astride;
We rarely raise a canter while it’s light.
But how oft for weary watchmen there’s a
wild and reckless ride
When some trifle scares those bullocks in
the night!
The eerie cry of some wild bird, the flutter
of its wings,
The snapping of a twig beside the camp,
The groan and creak of lapping limbs, the
wind’s shrill murmurings
Through bending boughs when midnight’s
dark and damp,
Though common sounds on road and run
that never boded harm,
Will fill *he pent-up mob with sudden
fear;
And in the hours when nothing stirs they
rush in wild alarm
From ghosts that humans neither see nor
hear.
There’s a rumble on the night-camp sends
a tremor through our roofs,
A sound of terror and a blur of dust.
Fear-mad the'cattle gallop with a thunder-
roar of hoofs,
And speed with them the crouching rider
must,
Hard through a dusty darkness that, en-
shrouds the runaways,
And hides the drooping limb, the jutting
root,
Until he heads the leaders and their wild
flight turns and stays,
While forest litter rattles underfoot.
Between the river crossings, where the
waters rush and roar,
And horses plunge and halt with half a
load,
It’s dull and drowsy droving ’long the sandy
Maranoar
With beasts that seem the quietest on the
road.
They’re scared of nothing living and afraid
of nothing dead,
We pelt the brutes with sticks and bits
of bark;
But round the camp at night-time we are
careful where we tread,
For they’re rowdy, touchy cattle after
dark.
N.S.W.
E. S. SOKENSON.


h
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Sporting
NOTES-TIPS-RESULTS..
fHE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES-6?
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE U HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
(effected on all classes of
■Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
THINK OF
h
SCHUTE,
BELL&C?td.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
, . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartment?
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
SMOKE-OH!
AFTERMATH.
Now that the shite and tumult have
diminished,
And to a close we’ve brought our festal
song ;
Now that the last, flat, yawned-through
speech is finished,
And normal life flows sluggishly along;
Notv that the farmers back to Woop have
wended,
A melancholy thought comes creeping in:
Although the celebrations all have ended,
The payments for the thing will now begin.
* *
And some refer to it as “De Groot Bridge.”
* *
Cupid’s record challenged:
The late Ivar Kreuger was the greatest match-
maker of all time.
* V
“There are many country tennis stars who should
be in Sydney.”
They’re too good to go beating about the
bush.
* *
The pursuing Japanese are having some
difficulty in finding the Chink in the Chinese
defences.
SEEING THE SHOW.
It isn’t manners, I suppose, to stroke a
Duchess on the nose, or, with a friendly
gesture, thump a Queen upon her royal
rump; but I’ve been doing things like those.
I’ve seen the Show. It’s good this year.
So is, lest I forget, the beer. There’s animals
of every kind ; and beer; machines that reap
and bind, and dig, and plough, and so on;
coves who cut up logs; and beer; and
stoves; and more machines for everything;
and beer; and riders in the ring; and beer;
and modern bungalows, furnished like
THE GREEN EYE AGAIN.
“Oh, a lovely time! The Earl gave me three dances!”
“Yes, these charity affairs do make a difference to men, don’t
they?”
palaces; and rows of piled-up fruit and stuff :
and beer; and side-shows scattered here and
there, like tattooed ladies and the bloke who
lets snakes bite him for a joke. There’s
wireless-sets; and dogs; and cars; and (did
I „jj VI o' And hoev in hnru
I can’t° say just what make of car won
in the fruit display. I bar such' questions;
and I’ll go off pop if asked who tvon the
running chop. It might have been a Stan-
dard plough, a Melba X—a bosker cow!
It doesn’t matter, anyhow, whether the
strong men took the trot in harness or the
jump—or not; or just what traction-engine
scored for bacon (cured) the first award.
But here’s one point on which I’m clear:
There were vast quantities of beer!
P. P-
¥ #
MODESTY.
“Commissioner Childs said that his attention was
attracted by Captain de Groot owing to the captains
bad riding. Also by the fact that De Groot was on
a miserable weed of a horse. He expected to see
the man fall off at any moment. The police considered
De Groot was weak in the head. Several police on
duty knew him.” —Gist of “World” report of
Bridge ribbon-cutting episode.
There have been other examples of the
same spirit of self-abasement.
“The Blanky Blanks are rotten cricketers,”
said the home captain. “Oh, I know they
licked us by an innings and 250 runs. All
the same, their bowling’s bad, and their bat-
ting’s worse, and as for their fielding—
unspeakable! Any eleven that wasn’t com-
posed of hopeless duds could beat the Blanky
Blanks every day of the week.”
“The Japanese are useless as soldiers,"
said General Hop Off, in a special commu-
nique to the press from a ’plane in which he
was preparing to retire to a position of
greater safety. “Their infantry can’t run
(or anyhow not fast enough to catch me) ;
their cavalry can’t ride, and their artillery
can’t shoot.” The General spoke as an
expert, having just been heavily defeated.
These inspiring examples make the recent
arrogant outburst of Constable 0.0.0., of
Sydney, all the more regrettable. “I regard
the Commissioner’s remarks as a libel on the
N.S.W. police,” he said. “Far from being
mentally weak Captain de Groot is a marvel
of nerve and cunning. As a horseman he is
in a' class of his own—somewhere between
Skuthorpe at his best and the lad who rides
Phar Lap. His charger is one that the
late Lord Haig might have been proud to
own. None of us knew the blighter; other-
wise he wouldn’t have had a hope of getting
on the Bridge. So if any half-wit thinks he’s
going to fool the Force on the strength of
the Commissioner’s ill-judged remarks he’d
better think again.”
* ¥
SOUL MATES.
“What rights has a wife if she cannot go away
for a week-end when she needs a change ?”
—Justice McCardie.
“George,” said Mrs. Peever, “I’m off for
a week-end.”
“Yes, dear.”
“Yes. I need a
change. By the
way, would you mind
putting your cigar-
ette in your mouth
again ? It relieves
the monotony of your
face.”
“Yes, dear.”
“I’m taking How-
ard Giglot with me
this time. He has
such eloquent eyes,
and his is such a
passionate nature.” •
“Yes, dear.”
“Let me see. Last
time it was Ber-
nard Bumpstarter,
wasn’t it?”
“Yes. dear.”
“He bored me.”
“Yes, dear?”
“So I think it’ll
be Howard this time.
He understands me.”
“Yes, dear.”
There was a tense
silence for a few
moments, nothing be-
ing heard but the
buzzing of the flies
in the milk jug.
Then it happened.
George Peever swung
the heavy tomato-
sauce bottle as if it
were a niblick. It
crashed on the beau-
tiful shingled head
with a cushioned thud.
The coroner’s ver-
dict was meritorious
homicide.
Norbell.
¥
“A Sydney cleric says the authorities are blind
to the evils of the drug traffic,
It’s known as snow blindness,
* * . . , ,
“Respondent arranged to meet the co-re., but found
her husband there instead.
The husband being the fly in the app-oint-
raent -
unnnAV TTF.MS
HOLIDAY NEW S l LEAlfc.
Let’s get m first with our Easter budget.
A Picnic Episode.
Timothy Ponsonby, metal-worker, 48, and
family were picnicking yesterday when
all the par t y> including the baby, Gwladys
Muriel, aged two years and nine months,
partook of a hearty repast of tinned lobster.
Up to a late hour last night no symptoms
of ptomaine poisoning had developed.
Reckless Driving.
A party of motorists, who were apparently
L / Airhilnrntpd hv an excess of holi-
somewhat exhilarated by
day cheer, was spinning along at a terrnn.
pace near the Devil s Elbow m Dead Man S
Gully on Saturday, when the car, a powerful
touring Yow Yow, skidded suddenly. It is
extremely fortunate that the steering gear
did not fail, or a very serious accident might
have resulted.
Bather’s Life Saved.
Whilst bathing at Bobbra Wobbra during
Saturday afternoon, George Ruffey, 13, de-
cided to try a dive from a stump standing
12 feet above the level of Blowfly Creek. Ilis
companions shouted out a warning, but the
reckless lad paid no hoed and dived in head
NOW WHAT WAS THE WOMAN AFTER?
“And remember to tell him, dear, it’s only for local application ."
“What, d’you mean he’s got to come here every time he wants to use it?”
first. The water is very deep at that spot,
and Ruffey did not injure himself in any
way.
Forgot It Was Loaded.
John Adlum, grocer’s assistant, 27, whilst
out rabbiting at Cocky’s Joy on Easter
Monday, followed the tracks of a wallaby
through some dense scrub. Forgetting in
his excitement that his double-barrelled gun
was both loaded and cocked, he dragged it
after him through a barbed-wire fence, but
could find no further trace of the wallaby.
A Lost Child.
Ruby Amelia Slumbug, aged three years,
became separated from her parents in the
vast crowd in George-street on Easter Satur-
day. She found her mother again, and was
made the recipient of a few sound slaps long
before a kind-hearted constable could carry
her to the police station and regale her with
ice-cream.
# V
From Melbourne “Argus” :
Mr. has died. He pleaded not guilty
to all charges.
Well has it been said that a good reporter
will go anywhere in search of real news.
* *
“Beer brewed by the Prince of Wales at Char-
rington’s brewery may be worth £6O a bottle in
30 years.”
Well, the depression ought to be over by
then.
* *
“A French scientist declares that the tongue
reveals the secrets of the owner’s character.”
— '‘Argus.”
And often the secrets of the owner’s
neighbor’s character.
¥ *
PRE-DEPRESSION AL.
“It was quite like old times to see a tall, distin-
guished host in the vestibule, welcoming in the
guests, with his own man in the background to
assist with wraps and hats.”— “Sunday Sun.”
I watched ’im at work with an ’eavy ’art
Assisting with wraps an’ ’ais.
And thought while ’e played ’is romantic
part
Of Sydney’s aristocrats
Who used to bring wraps and the like along
To parties in days gone by.
It caused me, dearie, to break into song,
An’ these mournful words to cry:
Chorus.
Where are the footmen of long ago
When society folks ’ad cash ?
Where are the fellers we used to know
That ’elped us to cut a dash
With “ ’ Ullo, Miss!” or “Yer not orf yet 1”
Or “The ladies’ room’s over there”?
But the only answer I ever get
Is Echo’s dejected-where?
Hosts made things gay for Society then
With champagne' wine by, the cask,
An’ unlimited spirits for the men —
All you ’ad to do was ask.
And alivays assisting with ’ats and ivraps,
An’ the bearing of a king,
Was one of them splendid footman chaps;
Which is why I sadly sing:
Repeat Chorus.
“ Mr - bang nnght meet the next ,
, . . ,
* llgnt lb “ 4 v
<<gurely it i 8 not unrea sonable to ask the Govern-
ment to do at least as much as we did.”
— Ex-P.lt. SculUn.
No request could be more modest.
# ¥
“The ability of the average man to turn a hou
upside down is remarkable.”
But you can’t beat a woman at lifting the
roof.
“Prisoner said that although he had received the
bribe, it had been stolen.’’
And that was the last of his bribe.
JUSTIFICATION.
“Seen Jones lately?”
An innocent enough question, but I cursed
myself for a fool for having asked it imme-
diately Bliggins started to answer it in his
well-known manner.
“Jonesy?” he said. “Oh, yes; struck him
only last Thursday night, up at the —no, it
wasn’t, it was on Tuesday night. I was
having a game of—no, it was Thursday
night, now I come to think of it. I was up
at Gingwam’s saloon having a stick of bil-
liards and in he walks. Now I remember.
I believe I was playing snooker at the
time. Anyway Jonesy came in with —no, it
was Tuesday night. I thought I’d made a
mistake —yes, Tuesday night”
“Yes, yes. When you saw him is unim-
portant. Did he say whether he’d be at
the meeting to-morrow night?”
“Well, he didn’t say ; he was with —no, I
do believe it was Thursday night, and it was
AN EASY MARK.
“But, Charley, it wasn’t so very extravagant.
In fact, my costumiere thinks simple
things suit me best.
“Herm! She must have been thinking of
me!”
billiards I was playing, because I distinctly
remember it was the day after*
With the possible exception of the more
enthusiastic members of the Anti-Homicide
League, few could cavil at my action in
manoeuvring Bliggins alongside a passihg
steam-roller and tripping him at the psycho-
logical moment.


f- :•>
Z Irl
{ v gW
' ✓
-VI
to! 8
H*.
?
p.
I
><v.v
4 «*>>:'*
*»&
w.vX/>
«s&
■«s
■
m-*-
3»w
Me#*
S-j-ii-M-
-f
w*
mum
- s pfe\
V *f
'•••
>W
#*«**
GO ORIENT TO EUROPE
JF you travel on an Orient Liner
you will enjoy the utmost comfort and
service, and you will “travel” —in the fullest
sense of the word —on a route with many
ports of call and opportunities for shore
excursions. Whether travelling in the Saloon
or Third Class of an Orient 20,000-tonner or
by one of the Line’s Tourist Steamers which
carry One Class only you will enjoy the
vast deck spaces and ample public rooms for
which Orient Liners are favorably known. . .
You will realise how much the unequalled
opportunities for recreation and exercise mean
to the enjoyment of the voyage.
ORIENT LINE
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
THE DAYS OF THE BOSES.
“Days that were golden—days that were wreathed
with a garland of roses.”- — Novalis.
This is the golden and sweet youthtide,
When the world is fair and the world is
wide,
And our hearts are as wide as the world and
as fair
And blithe as the song of the bird in the
air;
So, comrades, sing with a cheery chime:
This is the golden and gracious time —
These are the days of the roses!
Free is the heart and free is the song,
And free is the lad as he laughs along;
And the kiss of a maiden coy is free,
Though daintily shy may the red lips be:
Where a kiss we find and a song’s sweet
rhyme,
There is the golden and gracious time —
There are the days of the roses!
So here’s a deep health to the heart that’s
high,
And here’s to the love in a maiden’s eye!
And here’s to the lad, and here’s to the
lass,
And here’s to the foam on the sparkling
glass,
And here’s to our land with its Lydian
clime,
Here’s to the golden and gracious time —
Here’s to the days of the roses!
[l5/9/’97.J P. Liiftig.
Queen Victoria’s cook gets £7OO a year
and all the scrap fat. [24/l/’9l.]
The somersault cure is the very latest
remedy for fatness. When a. stout lady of
50 or so learns to turn somersaults it is
alleged that the exercise has a fascination
which makes her keep at it, and by daily
repetition she grows slender and muscular.
In the early stages of the business she. has
naturally to be helped over by an instruc-
tress—that is to say, she lies down flat, and
an athletic lady seizes her by the ankles, and
stands her on her head, and then lets her
drop. But after a while she gains confidence
in herself and in her knickerbockers, and
whirls her stout limbs over her head “on
her own” without the slightest difficulty.
When she has learned to dp this act with-
out assistance and without coming down
with a stunning whack on her front part,
the fascination is said to take hold of her,
and after that she is liable to keep on turn-
ing somersaults till she is 70 or more.
Joseph McMullen Dargaville, the Maori-
land legislator who died at sea recently on
the voyage from ’Frisco to Auckland, was
for many years a prominent official of the
Union Bank, but retired from the institu-
tion to develop the timber and gum indus-
tries in the North Auckland peninsula,
where he had large landed interests and
where he founded the town which bears his
name. Dargaville was one of the finest
speakers in the Parliament of the early
'eighties—a Parliament not by any means
weak in oratory. He was a remarkably
handsome man—portly, with a golden beard
and a complexion of peaches and cream, but
his principles were so unfixed'' that neither
Atkinson nor Grey, the leaders of the period,
regarded him as a serious politician. It
must have been gall and wormwood to him
when a man who started life as a carpenter
in his employ. “Ted” Mitch elgon, attained
a seat in the House and subsequently became
Minister for Works in Atkinson’s Ministry.
A MELBOURNE CUP STORY.
She was a handsome little thing, a blonde,
charmingly dressed in something simple and
extremely dear. She sat on a seat surround-
ing a fine, shady tree near the birdcage, and
watched the crowd of men struggling at the
counter of one of the refreshment booths,
with an envious light in her tender blue
eyes. He sat on the same seat, and glared
moodily at the tuft of grass he was prodding
viciously with his stick. He had been
backing favorites. They were strangers.
Presently she spoke.
“I beg your pardon, sir, but I need a
cup of tea so much, and I am afraid I
could make no impression on that crowd
at the counter. Will you be so kind?”
She held out a tiny purse towards him,
and looked girlishly diffident, conscious that
she was doing quite the right thing, and yet
a little beseeching. He responded promptly.
When he returned with the tea, she
thanked him and smiled. He would have
gone, but she said she hoped he would not
leave his _ seat on her account, so he sat
down again.
She asked him presently if he did not
think the horses were perfectly lovely, and
when he enthusiastically admitted that they
were, she was encouraged to tell him that
papa had left her there to take a rest
whilst he wandered. through the birdcage.
She hoped he-had not forgotten her. They
drifted into quite a conversation. She was
prettily unsophisticated and debonair, and
so amused the man of the world that he
quite forgot his losses.
It was quite a quarter of an hour before
she detected the figure of her papa and
fluttered off amongst the crowd, giving the
stranger another smile. He ieaned back
and sighed. In a while his hand went to
his pocket, feeling for his watch, his fifty-
guinea gold chronometer, jewelled in
numerous holes, a present from his wealthy
maiden aunt.
It was twenty minutes to five.
[lB/11/’93.1- Silas Snell.
In Monte Video ' (South America),
according to the report of the policeman
who brought back Geake, the pious Gentle-
man One who absconded from his bail, legal
proceedings are conducted on the most
courteous principles. When the prisoner is
brought into court, if he is a reasonably
clean and gentlemanly prisoner, the Judge
shakes hands with him and possibly gives
him a light for his cigar, and inquires after
his health. The prisoner reciprocates and
trusts that the Judge is well. Also the
Judge, the lawyers on both sides, the prin-
cipal officials and the witnesses shake hands
and exchange greetings. The prisoner is
courteously offered a chair, and then busi-
ness proceeds. In the course of the trial
the Judge and the prisoner address each
other in terms of courteous equality. In
Australia, also, the law T professes to regard
the untried prisoner as an innocent man
who is the equal of any other citizen, and
it acts up to its theory by ordering him
to stand up in a dirty enclosure behind a
row of spikes, while a huge policeman
stands alongside to suppress him instantly
if he attempts to speak to the Judge in
any terms except those of abject grovel.
And even if the accused was the most per-
fect gentleman in the land, any attempt to
shake hands with his Honor would probably
lead to his immediate execution in the back
yard.
From “Pearson’s Weekly” :
The black cannibals of Northern Queensland are
exceeding partial to Chinamen. The reason is said
to be that the flesh of the Chinese is peculiarly
tender and palatable, owing to rice being their
staple article of diet. There is now a numerous
Chinese population in the north of Queensland, and
scores of them who have ventured beyond the con-
fines of civilisation have been captured and devoured
by the natives.
But our London contemporary misses the
sequel, which is now ancient history in Aus-
tralia. Wily John fed up on plaster of paris
and killed off the unsuspecting nigs, by the
thousand from indigestion.
The recent death of Otto Bathurst Palmer
Morrisett recalls to mind that it was his
father, when Commandant at Norfolk Island
in the ’thirties, that the convicts wanted
badly to “cut up and roast.” The Colonel
left the island on the discovery of a wide-
spread conspiracy to murder him. and was
appointed P.M. at Bathurst. When in the
Army he received a bullet wound in the
cheek, which gave him an odd appearance
and a peculiar way of speaking, which
obtained for him the sobriquet of “wry-
mouth.” At Bathurst he had a prisoner
charged before him who was similarly
afflicted, but the Colonel thought the man
was mocking, and sentenced him to a month
for contempt of court. An explanation was
made, however, and the Colonel discharged
th( l man > him a handsome apology
a sovereign to dunk his health. _ The
Colonel had two other sons, one Superinten-
dent of Police at Goulburn, and the other
Police Magistrate at Deniliquin, both now
dead. [3l/1/’9l.]
AS QUAINT OLD HERRICK MIGHT
HAVE SUNG
My j lllia - s eye is sweet a nd ' shy
_^ s evei . was a summer sky ;
H • • • f] heavenlv bine
That shines the fleece-white cloudbank
through,
And I the earth that looks up at
The summer heavens beneath her liat.
[2/l/’97.] Steele Grey.


HANDY HINTS for the FARM
How Marty Subjects Does This
Shilling Book Cover?
Here is the Index of subjects under the letter S:
h
Sheep (continued)
“off the board” .
pecked
teeth
among wheat
Sheepskins
t 0 dye
and rats . .
Show, preparing for .
Silage ..
pits
for cows . .
Silos
trench
Skim milk, food value
Skins, rabbit . .
Sledge for hay
Slugs
Smokehouse, bacon .
Snakebite
Snakeskin, to cure
Soap, sand
toilet
without caustic .
yellow
Soil renovation
sour
Soldering, paste flux .
Sore shoulders, hors*'
54
45
51
5
54
24
25
21
6
20
43
20
20
43
22
18
78
60
90
24
84
84
84
84
4
12
17
32
Sore eyes, dogs
Sore mouths, lambs . .
Sow, brood
Sparrow trap
Spaghetti, to make . .
Spiced beef
Spider, red-back
Splint, horse
Split hoof
Sprays, spreaders
Stable, first aid
Stin kwort
Strangles
Strawberries . .
Stumps, to pull out . .
Strychnine poison, dogs
humans
Sub. clover
as binder
Sucker-lambs, marketing
Suckering
Sudan grass
Sunstroke
Super, in dry years . .
in Mallee
Super, bags, to clean
Sweet potato
Swingle-bars ..
70
46
59
77
82
80
92
32
32
74
36
77
32
70
88
61
90
10
10
52
68
10
92
3
3
24
72
89
Every effort has been used to make the book of the greatest practical value on every kind of farm.
The experienced farmer will know hundreds of the things in it. It is the few We doesn’t know or has
forgotten that will make it worth pounds to him.
Price, 1/-; by post, 1/2. From the head office of “The Bulletin, 252 George Street, Sydney; or from
any branch office: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; James Place,
Adelaide; 33 Barrack Street, Perth; 14 Panama Street, Wellington (N.Z.).
THE “SUNTYNE”
COMBINED GRAIN AND FERTILIZER DRILL
AND SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR
♦
:
f :
'
mm
THE
SUNTYNE
ows
CIENTIFICALLY
THE “SUNTYNE,” by placing the seed with the superphosphate
exactly where it gets the most benefit from the available moisture,
hastens germination, ensures vigorous early growth, and gives the
crop every opportunity for healthy development from the start.
POINTS WORTH REMEMBERING.
SOWS SEVEN INCHES APART—AT UNIFORM DEPTH
FLEXIBLE FLOAT S—SAVE TYNE BREAKAGES
ALL-STEEL LID—KEEPS SEED AND SUPER. DRY
FORWARD LEVER—AVAILABLE FOR TRACTOR USE
FULL PARTICULARS, PRICES AND TERMS ALWAYS AVAILABLE FROM
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD. ( SECTION )
* SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
BRANCHES: MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE.
UNSHINE FARM IMPLEMENTS -WORK WELL AND LAST LON


Y>e**
-THE WORLDS
MOST PERFECT
PUMP
The “Kismet” Duplex Master
is the aristocrat of Pumps.
Because of its patent super-charged action, it delivers
twice the volume of air with half the effort. Strongly built to
give lasting service, it is an engineer's job throughout. It makes
tyre inflation a pleasure, and is unconditionally guaranteed.
IT’S THE PUMP YOU NEED. Price 84/-
KISMET
DUPLEX “MASTER"
FOOT-PUMP
Two
in
Om
h
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & 880., LTD., Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box7l M jlbourn
w
tttl
i *•*#»«*
theai^
> s
THE NEW DECORATIONS
The Winter Garden, the Dining-room, the Ball-room
Lounge—these hare all been entirely remodelled and
redecorated in the modern manner. The whole forms
a glamorous and enchanting setting that is without
an equal in Australia.
Reduced Tariff —"Room Only” Rates.
Single Room from 10/6 per day
Double Room .. * from 20/- per day
WRITE FOR RATE CARD
Telegraphic Address:‘Austraotel, Sydney."
■■JhcJ
Australia
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth,
Sydney.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
QUEENSLAND DAIRY-FARMING.
“F 34” : For each of the past few seasons
the output of dairy products in Queensland
has shown a considerable increase, and Janu-
ary was a record month w 7 itli most factories.
The increase has been due mainly to larger
numbers of dairy farms and of cows used for
dairy purposes. The low price of cream, a
facer as it is at present, may prove a dis-
guised blessing to the industry, since it makes
higher standards imperative.
Queensland has an efficient herd-testing
service. It is free of cost to the farmer, but
it is not sufficiently availed of. To illustrate
its importance, even in the poorest herds, I
can quote some examples. Cows A and B
calved July 24; production to February 29
was 4611 b. and 991 b. of butter-fat respec-
tively. Cows C and D calved August 18
and 19; production to February 29, 4911 b.
and 9051 b. respectively. Unless the culls are
discovered and disposed of increased feed-
ing, on which so many farmers rely, will
produce disappointing results.
Another mistake that is looming up is the
neglect of leguminous crops in favor of those
which give a high yield of feed per acre.
Corn, sorghum and millets are only half a
ration. There are whole districts without
a plant of lucei’ne, and where pastui*es have
been established after falling and burning
sernb there are even few native legumes.
In all the older coastal districts osteo-
malacia, as evidenced by bone-chewing, is
rampant, but little effort is made to prevent
it, though milk yield and general health of
the herd suffer.
The possibilities of silage are also being
discussed out of proportion to its merits.
The bulk of the industry is carried on along
the coast, where cow-cane can be grown.
Cow-cane and silage provide a succulent
roughage for use during the winter and dry
spring months. Both are poor in proteins
and rich in carbohydrates, silage being
slightly better food. The cost of produc-
tion is not to be compared however. A
neighbor has a crop of Indian cane now 011
its seventh ratoon and showing about eight
tons of feed per acre in spite of the dry
spell. Cost of cultivation per ton is re-
duced where a permanent crop is grown, and
yields are higher than of corn, because the
cane makes growth on falls of rain too small
to risk planting corn and has a longer grow-
ing season.
It would be a pity if the movement to-
wards higher standards per acre per cow and
per man wci*e to fail to reach its full realisa-
tion by being directed into wrong channels.
BABY BEEF OR BUTTER?
“W.D.Mc.”: I said (B. 17/2/’B2) that in
many cases baby beef would give the better
net return. This “F 34” (B. 9/3/’32) denies.
He asserts that 20 cows will bring in £4
per week; but for how long will they do it?
Certainly not all the year round, unless he
has a special breed that never goes dry, gets
in ealf or wants a spell. I take it that
“F34’s” herd are just cows and that they
will milk for the average period—say, 35
weeks, which at ss. per week works out
at £8 15s. per head, or £175 for 20 head, or
£3 ss. per week —not £4 for 52 weeks. Add
the value of the 20 poddies. Taking one year
with another, that would be 30s. per head, a
total of £205. For that sum the cows have
to be milked twice daily seven days a week
for 35 weeks, and the poddies have to be fed
twice daily.
Now 7 take the baby-beef proposition (B.
20/l/’32). Twenty calves at £6 10s. per head
(a line of 15 vealers realised £lO ss. in Mel-
bourne the other day). £l3O. Then there
is calf No. 2 ; while admitting that he may
be of dairy breeding and not so suitable for
fattening, we w 7 ill put him down at £4 per
head, £80 —a total of £2lO. This sum is
over £4 per week for the whole of the year,
and Baby B. does all the work. “F 34”
w 7 ould then be free to clear up some more
good flats, and thus carry more baby beef;
or, if he feels that he must do some milking,
he could get a job on a neighboring dairy—
good milkers ai*e always in demand —and thus
add to his income. I cannot agree with
“F 34” as to hand-reared vealers. During
40 years I have bought and slaughtered many
hundreds of hand-fed calves, but I never got
one that was equal to a calf suckled on the
mother. They may be fleshy but are never
prime on skim milk and pollard: the calf on
the cow gets cream, not skim milk, whenever
he wants it and develops a bloom that the
bucket poddy never has.
A man with a herd of cows averaging
3501 b. to 4001 b. of butter fat (there are 12<
herds in Victoria doing that and 42 herds
producing 4001 b. and over) would be foolish
to change-over to baby beef. The heifer
calves from such herds would be worth tar
more than vealers, especially if pure-bred
and pedigreed. But the man who. has just
cows or a 55.-a-week herd would be in pocket,
and have a much easier life, if he never
bailed them up and let the calves do the job.
My first choice for breeding baby beet is
the Polled Angus bull and Hereford cows;
next, Shorthorn cows. The better the cow 7
the better the calf. She must have plenty
of feed ; paddocks must never be over-stocked.
Owing to milk production having been bred
out of many of the beef breeds, a great
number of cows have only sutlicient milk tor
one calf, and some have not enough for one.
Such cows should be spayed and fattened,
but a good cow of any of the dairy breeds
will produce enough milk to fatten two
calves, and do it w r ell, on good grass.
Making the cow take No. 2 by putting
the dog on to her (B. 9/3/’32) is a dodge
as old as the hills. It w 7 ill work all right
on one calf but not two. To be a success
the calves must fie coupled, so that No. 2
can hop in for his cut while No. 1 is on the
job; otherwise No. 2 will get such a warm
reception from horn and hoof that lie will
wander away and the foster-mother w 7 ill not
bother about him. On the average a fort-
night is long enough to keep them coupled.
RATE OF WOOL GROWTH.
“Ovis”: “Sheepo” (B. 2/3/’32) asserts
that wool makes quicker growth during the
first three months after shearing than during
any other period of three months. This
statement is at variance Avith the results
obtained from experiments; for example,
those carried out by Dr. J. E. Duerden, Direc-
tor of Wool Research, and G. S. Mare, Sheep
and Wool Research Officer, at the Groot-
fontein School of Agriculture, South Africa.
These authorities found that, provided condi-
tions are normal, v 7 ool grows at approxi-
mately the same rate day by day and mouth
by month. During the first six months after
shearing a fleece will grow at approximately
the same rate as during the second six
months.
H. Burns, of the University of Wyoming,
reporting on an experiment extending over
four years, says : “The monthly w 7 ool growth
of Rambouillet ewes was remarkably uniform
throughout the year and in the four different
years.” Arid M. H. Norris and C. C. Claas-
sens, in their study of crimp in wool, found
that fibre thickness varied with seasonal con-
ditions, while increase in fibre length pro-
ceeded at a uniform rate. In effect, varia-
tion in the rate of growth is caused, not by
shearing, but by nutritional variation,
“Haddington”: Up in these parts (N.Q.)
I am inclined to believe that 10 months’
growth is a virtual full growth; after the
tenth month a wasty tip starts, which doesn’t
add much to the weight per head. I have
shorn with eight to twelve months’ growth,
and find that a sheep cuts very little more
with 12 months than 10 months. And the
price per pound of the 10-month wool is
invariably the better. With 10 months’
growth I have never had prices below valua-
tion ; on two occasions I have obtained up
to 21d. per pound over valuation (not in
the boom), which, to me, clearly shows there
is a keener average demand for our fine wool
without the wasty tip. I have had wool
in sales from the worst September (1931) to
the best (1924), and wool sold in every month
except January. Wool with 10 months’
growth sold over valuation on a falling
market on one occasion. In normal seasons,
heavy losses are likely to he incurred shear-
ing from December till the middle of March,
owing to heavy rains or intense heat or both.
BEATING THE RABBIT.
“Rab”: The" past seasons having been
good, bunny has increased enormously, and
in many parts farmers with unnetted runs
find the rabbit in control. There is some-
thing wrong with the grazier in rabbit coun-
try who stands to-day with his whole pro-
perty unnetted, a curse to himself and his
neighbors.
A good netting fence costs about £lOO per
mile erected. This on a 640-acre block is,
roughly, £4OO the lot. Once netted in. a con-
tract can be let to trap out the rabbits for
Is. Gd. per acre, approximately another £5O.
The increased feed thus insured, over and
above its ordinary carrying capacity, could
be cashed by taking in 50 head of cattle at
9d. per head per week. This return would
almost pay for the fencing and extermination
of the pest within five years.
Should the country be hilly and rough it
is wiser to let a contract to dig out the
burrows. I have had thousands of acres
dug out at 3s. per acre (equal to present-
day wages). Should the intention be to
dig out, it pays handsomely to finish this
work a few 7 days ahead of completing- the
netting enclosure. I bought this experience
in the Southern Tablelands of N. S. Wales,
where I enclosed a 1300-acre paddock before
starting the digging-out contract. The re-
sultant surface rabbits w 7 ere in thousands,
and to destroy them cost me more than the
digging-out contract.
It is a heart-breaking job to keep rabbits
off unnetted country, but it can be done
by digging out burrow 7 s and burning off
harbor. Broadly speaking, a rabbit will
not venture 150 yards away from cover of
some sort; therein lies the secret of dealing
w 7 itli him in unnetted country. But in the
long run, to net is alwrnys the cheapest.
TREATING FENCE POSTS.
Westralia has (or had) a great asset in
Acacia acuminata, colloquially known as
raspberry jam, ox*, more commonly, jam. It
is ideal timber for fencing, and the early
settlers used nothing else. Jam posts can
be depended upon to last 50 years; fences
erected 60 years ago are still in perfect con-
dition. But Acacia acuminata grows in good
wheat country, and supplies are getting-
scarce and dear, cost, including railway
freight, being as much as £7 a ton. Gimlet,
salmon gum, boree and morrell, w 7 hich also
grow in the wheat belt, ai*e not nearly so
good as jam, being particularly subject to
the attacks of white ants. Nevertheless J.
E. Cummins, in a pamphlet issued by the
Council for Scientific and Industrial Re-
search, advises farmers that, w 7 ith preser-
vative treatment, these timbers make satis-
factory fence posts, and so also do “thin-
nings” of other timbers from Forestry De-
partment and private plantations.
Seasoning is first necessary. As soon
after felling as possible, the posts should
be barked. Then a site should be chosen
that will allow 7 prevailing winds to blow
through the stacks; it should be on high
ground, well drained. In building a stack
care should be taken to have good founda-
tions which will raise the stack about a
foot off the ground. Large fence posts can
be used as a base. In a method of open
piling recommended by Mr. Cummins, three
posts are used in each alternate layer; the
other layers, with the posts at right angles
to the first, have from five to ten posts. The
number depends on the length and diameter
of the posts, but each post in these rows
must be carefully separated from its neigh-
bor. Posts should be air-seasoned for about
six months and treated in dry weather. In
the eastern wheat belt posts cut at the end
of winter or in the spring should be ready
for treatment at the end of summer.
In Mr. Cummins’s pamphlet three dif-
ferent types of preservatives are described
for use with the _ open-tank process. He
regards creosote with fuel oils as better for
use in wetter localities; treatment with this
type of preservative is generally easier and
simpler than with water-soluble preserva-
tives. But sodium fluoride with wdiite arsenic
or zinc chloride -with white arsenic will
give good service in drier localities ; in either
case treatment should give a life of 20 to 25
years.
For farm treatment of ordinary sft. to
6ft. posts, four 45-gallon oil-drums can be
used, together with one or two extra drums
for storage of solutions. The tops of the
drums should be removed, and the insides
wiped clean with waste cloth. Two of the
drums are required to be heated and fire-
places should be constructed for these; a
cheap mercury thermometer is also needed.
For the creosote-and-oil mixture 30 gallons
of creosote should be thoroughly mixed with
15 gallons of oil. Usually, it is preferable
.to have a little less oil than will be actually
required, as it is easier to add than to re-
move hot oil from the drums. The oil in tlie
drums over the fires should be heated until
a temperature of about 200 degrees F. to
210 degrees F. is reached. The posts should
then be placed vertically in the drums, butts
down. When the heating period for the
'species being treated is completed (four
'hours as a rule) the posts are quickly re-
moved from the hot drum and placed in the
'cold drum immediately behind or alongside
it This cooling drum should contain about
Ift. 6in. depth, or about 25 gallons, of solu-
tion. The heating drum can be refilled with
posts. At the end of the heating period
for the second treatment, the posts can be
left in the drum, the fire drawn or
allowed to burn out and the drum and its
contents allowed to cool overnight. It is
during the cooling period that the main part
of the penetration and absorption of the p.*e-
servativc by the wood occurs. The posts
should be removed from both drums next
morning.
BETTER SEED.
“S. Quire”: I ran across a farmer who
had just finished garnering and .stacking a
nice crop of Yorkshire Hero peas. “All 1
want now,” he said, “is a nice shower, of
rain on the stack, and I’m home on the pig’s
back.” He was banking on the rain being
followed by fine weather, giving ideal con-
ditions for thrashing. My suggestion of har-
vesting forthwith was pooh-poohed as so
much extra bother.
You need a lot of luck to fluke ideal con-
ditions for .seed thrashing. More often than
not the stack is left uncovered and uncared
for during a rainfall of two or three inches.
When thrashed under these conditions the
seed presents a sorry spectacle—a badly-
stained, unsound, uneven sample having
every appearance of contamination with
fungi. Seed of this description, when sown,
not only depreciates the crop, but brings dis-
ease on to the farm. Certificated seed (i.e.;
seed grown under Government supervision)
would be excellent, but the cost would be
prohibitive in Australia —excepting, of
course, certain lines.
Apart from individual potato- and onion-
growers (and, of course, Government ex-
perimental farms) there are few instances
of growers specialising in seed-raising in Vic-
toria. Usually it is a case of marketing any-
thing. The fact that the best offer is shil-
lings per bushel under that offered for im-
ported seed is ignored. Complaints about
parcels of unsatisfactory seed and plants are
common. The seed-raiser is mostly to blame.
There is plenty of room for improvement
and an open door for the grower who is
game to build up the business, using a trade-
mark or registered brand, of producing and
marketing only clean selected seed in the
best condition, relying on quality and strain
to make a name for the brand and himself.
But seed-raising is a job on its own. Har-
vesting the crop for seed at the end of the
growing season, when the market for the
green stuff is glutted and unpayable, is
wrong, and spells disaster.
Seed or plant selection means the reten-
tion of the best plants. Every grower will
agree that there are always a few plants
in a crop standing out above the rest; they
prove not only best during growth, but best
at harvest time. As like begets like, selec-
tion of plants which have grown strongly
throughout from germination to maturity,
and produced the best results at harvest, is
the main thing in creating a strain with a
name to the mutual advantage of your cus-
tomer and yourself.
CHANGING THE VARIETY.
“Erid Eastene”: Every orehardist has
found himself with trees of a variety that
is no longer profitable or that does not pro-
duce sufficient fruit. To effect a worth-
while change has often taken years after
grafting or budding over. I have abandoned
grafting low down on three, four or five of the
main branches for grafting higher up, where
10, 15, sometimes 20, grafts can be placed
on the smaller branches. This accelerates
the change with less check to the vitality of
the tree.
Another method now being adopted
by some Vic. growers is worthy of con-
sideration. It is to pole out all the main
branches by cutting hard back all laterals:
this is. done at pruning-time in the winter.
This poling-off causes fresh young growth
to shoot out all up the limbs. Each of
these young growths lias a bud of the desired
variety placed in it, close to the main limb
during the growing period. As many as 300
buds have been placed in a tree in, this way.
When these shoot out, the tree is trans-
formed in the one year to the desired variety.
Its vitality is preserved and it is rendered
capable of holding the normal crops.
VARIETY IN POULTRY FOODS.
“Jack Point”: One man gets wedded to
a particular brand of laying mash or method
of feeding; another tries all sorts of feeds
and ways of feeding without sticking to any
one long enough to determine its true worth.
Neither is successful. There is a middle
course which one must follow to get the
maximum return in eggs for the outlay in
purchase of feeds.
It is unwise to vary the mash greatly,
except as to the actual quantity, which will
generally be regulated by the fowls them-
selves. In a cold snap birds that are used
to dry mash only will respond well to a
small feed of wet, crumbly mash, mixed with
warm water or milk once or twice a day.
During the moult is a good time to feed a
liberal grain ration, which enables the birds
to store up fats, etc., against the heavy
laying period to follow. The grain portion
of the ration may be changed fairly fre-
quently, but never suddenly. If you .can
buy wheat cheaper than cracked maize, by
all means feed wheat, but make the change
(Continued on-.page 26.)


••• - •
mm
Doubled!
Not only is the Abbey Cos-
sack’s sole made of twice the
usual thickness of the toughest
Australian leather ... its upper,
too, is doubled. The lining
throughout is soft leather, snug
and easy-fitting. The Abbey
Cossack is a boot made for
comfort and service under the
roughest conditions and in all
weathers. It outlasts any ordi-
nary boot.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-pricerd tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- & 407-
Black Box Calf . . . . 37/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 274
HOWARD PORTLAND CEMENT
COMPANY LIMITED.
In our full-page advertisement, pub-
lished in this paper on March 16, the
Secretary’s name is shown as T. I.
Heaney—this should be T. I. Reaney.
Also, the capacity of the dam is shown
as 80,(XX) gals, instead of 80,000,000
gals.
CONSTIPATION
THE THIEF ,
OF ENERGY/
•
There is no need for yon to suffer
from constipation when you can
correct it with FIGSEN. Figsen
is as prompt in action as it is
gentle and natural. No purging.
No griping pain. Figsen acts
smoothly on the intestinal muscles
and helps them to perform
their natural functions. Figsen
is easy to take and will not
upset the most delicate stomach.
wmL
Your Chemist
sells and
recommends
©
FIGSEN
FOR CONSTIPATION
Legal Notice.
IN the Will and Estate of LUCY HOLD A WAY
(commonly known as Lucy Walker) late of
Lonsdale Street Geelong in the State of Victoria
widow deceased. Will any person knowing the
present whereabouts of WILLIAM WALKER who
was formerly of Geelong and who is a son of the
abovenamed deceased ask him to immediately com-
municate with the undermentioned Solicitors as the
Trustee of the above Estate desires to hand him
a legacy. In the event of the said William Walker
failing to get in touch with the said Solicitors
before the first day of June One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-two, the Estate of the above-
named deceased will be distributed as if the said
William Walker were dead.
Dated this seventeenth day of March, 1932.
WIGHTON & McDonald, Sdlicitors, 53 Yarra
Street, Geelong, Victoria, Solicitors for the
Trustee in the above Estate.
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
‘‘The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from ‘‘The Bulletin” Office,
all States.
F
O
*
F
£
&
o
o
FREE
/u
byIXL
ACETYLENE
CITY COMFORTS IN THE COUNTRY!
Complete Lighting Installations through-
out the Home. Economical to Install
and Maintain. The hottest gas-flame
known for Cooking and Heating.
To Messrs. H. Jones & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
G.P.O. Box 639 “D,” HOBART.
Please send me free booklet “ Modem
Acetylene Lighting and Heating.”
Name
Address
gradually. Where oats can be got cheap it
should be fed sprouted, with the green shoots
about lin. long. Simply pour warm wuter
over the .seed oats and keep it moist in a
warm room.
Green feed can hardly be fed in too great
a variety, but bear in mind the relative
food values—lucerne, for instance, has a
much greater nutritive value than rape. The
great things with green feed, however, are
succulence and regularity of feeding.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
( Transferred ' from Service Department.)
How to sharpen the discs of a plough or
cultivator ? —8235.
The discs should be removed from the
plough and mounted on a spindle which can
be rotated in bearings on a slide in front of
an emery grinder. In mounting the i-iscs
on the spindle, a smaller disc should be used
as a washer to support the disc to be sharp-
ened and to prevent it from vibrating whilst
grinding. The emery grinder should be of
the ordinary stand type, carrying, say, 18in.
x 14in. emery wheels and driven at about
2000 r.p.m. The slide carrying the spindle
and bearings on which the discs arc mounted
should be a good fit in the guides, and should
be mounted at the correct angle to the emery
wheel. The spindle should be driven at
about 150 to 200 r.p.m. in the opposite direc-
tion to the emery wheel. Provision must be
made so that the spindle can be adjusted to
suit different diameters of discs and also
to feed the disc being ground up to the grind-
ing wheel. It is not economical to attempt
to grind a disc worn to a diameter less than
I9in.
Why has O’Callaghan’s chart been
amended? Is it due to the extra efficiency
of Q’land dairy factories, or has legislation
allowed 3 p.c. extra moisture? —S674.
O’Callaghan’s chart is now out of print.
“Butter Manufacturers’ Computing Tables,”
prepared by the N.S.W. Agriculture Dept.,
have been adopted in Q’land. When O’Cal-
laghan’s chart came into use the moisture
content of butter rarely exceeded 14 p.c., so
that a moisture content of 12| p.c. was
adopted as the basis for the chart. More
efficient methods of manufacture bring the
moisture content nearer the maximum
allowed, viz., 16 p.c. The new chart is
based on a 14 p.c. moisture content. Its
use provides for a greater original credit
to suppliers, so that the overrun or extra
credit is correspondingly less.
How to rid a cowbail of sandflies? —8602.
Smoke the building out with smouldering
dry cow manure. This should be done
thoroughly before milking, and sparingly
while the work is going on.
(1) What is the difference between ground
phosphate rock, di-calcic phosphate and
superphosphate? (2) Which is the best for
sheep or other stock—bone flour or di-calcic
phosphate? (3) Is 30 p.c. bone flour or
di-calcic phosphate too much to have in a
lick ? —8690.
(1) Ground phosphate rock is tri-ealcic
phosphate. Di-calcic phosphate is tri-calcic
phosphate with one atom of calcium re-
placed by hydrogen. Superphosphate repre-
sents a stage further, with two hydrogen
atoms and one calcium atom. It is soluble
in water. It also contains gypsum, formed
during manufacture, and this makes it un-
suitable for stock licks. (2) Di-calcic phos-
phate is more readily assimilated. (3) No.
I wish to paint the galvanised-iron roof of
my house with acetylene refuse. How should
the mixture be prepared so that it will not
flake off? Also, how can I color it red? —
8569.
Soak 51b. commercial casein in 2 gallons
hot water till thoroughly softened. Dis-
solve 31b. borax in 1 gallon water, add this
solution to the casein and stir till all dis-
solved. Take 501 b. of the lime (carbide
residue) and work it into the consistency
of a thick smooth cream with w r ater. Add
the cold casein solution to the lime (car-
bide residue) paste, stirring constantly and
thoroughly. Dry red oxide can be used to
give color. Dilute the finished product with
water to any desired consistency. If used
on a roof from which the rain water is
used for drinking, the first run off after rain
should be run to waste.
Is there Crown land at Atherton ( N.Q.)
available for selection for tobacco-growing?
—8698.
None in the vicinity of Atherton. Lands
in the Mareeba and Cooktown districts are
being divided for the purpose; it is
expected that these will be made available
in time for the 1932-33 tobacco season. Eight
portions in the parish of Spencer are being
opened for agricultural farm and perpetual-
lease selection at the Lands Office, Mackay,
on April 12. Parts of these are suitable for
growing tobacco.
(1) Is danger likely to arise through
cither Sudan or Rhodes grass being fed to
stock at any time during its growth? (2)
Can Rhodes grass and Sudan grass be grown
in England with a profit to cattle- and sheep-
farmers ? —B7ll.
(1) No danger from Rhodes grass, but
should Sudan be impure through cross-fer-
tilisation with sorghum it may in the early
stage of growth develop poisonous proper-
ties. Sudan or sorghum is not considered
dangerous after coming into head. If used
prior to that stage the precaution should
be taken to feed it to an animal of little
value. (2) No. Climatic conditions are
entirely unsuitable.
My half-grown turkeys have developed a
big bag of fluid, which hangs down in front
of their legs. Cause and cure? —8743.
The turkeys have distended crops, which
could be caused by the birds consuming a
large quantity of water after having a feed
of grain. This trouble is common when
they have been left without water for a time
or when they roam long distances from the
water in search of forage. If the crops
are badly distended, the condition is pro-
bably chronic, in which case very little can
he done. A daily dose of half a teaspoonful
of carbonate of soda dissolved in a little
warm water will correct any sourness caused
by acidity.
(1) Best sort of soil for growing Q'land
nuts? (2) Would they flourish in N.
Q’land? (3) How long does it take the
trees to grow and hearf (4) Is there a
good market in Australia as well as over-
seas? (5) Where could I get further infor-
mation?—Bs99.
(1) Fertile deep soil —alluvial or basaltic.
(2) Yes, in parts under consistent rainfall.
(3) Four to six years. (4) Yes. Local
requirements will not be met for years. (5)
Q’land Agricultural Dept.
(1) Will Brazil-nuts grow in N. Queens-
land? (2) Where can plants be obtained
in Australia? —B7l6.
(1) They might grow in that part of the
State, but would not be productive further
south than the Bloomfield River. They cer-
tainly would give no returns in your dis-
trict (Peeramon). (2) No plants available
in Australia.
Particulars of the Harrison steaming pro-
cess for the extraction of grass-tree resin?
—8876.
The tree is lopped and trimmed, as for
the “jigger.” A cloth is spread on the
ground around the tree and the gum and
fibre are then chipped off vertically, bagged,
taken to the concentration plant, and placed
on sieves in a vat heated by steam. The gum
melts and runs into trays, and is afterwards
run out into receptacles to cool. The residue
left on the sieves is used for firing the
boilers. Detailed particulars from the
Curator, Sydney Technological Museum.
How to prepare commercial white hide?
—8765.
Put the hide in a barrel or large milk
can and pour over it a mixture composed
of one full bucket of burnt lime and suffi-
cient water to cover the hide. Soak for
10 days, turning frequently, and keeping it
pushed down under the fluid. Then take
out and spread on a floor, preferably con-
crete, hair side up, and scrape off the hair
with a knife. After dehairing, soak for two
days in a mixture made of a bucket of bran
and enough water to cover the hide. Re-
move from the bath, drain, and soak for
10 days in a solution of 101 b. salt, 101 b.
ground alum and loz. oxalic acid mixed up
with enough water to cover the hide. Turn
frequently during the 10 days. Remove
from the bath, drain, then tack up tightly
on a wall or large table to dry, stretched as
firmly as possible. When dry, it is ready
to use. Tidy up with a knife or piece of
pumice.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Julia Creek”: Bugle yards (B. 2/3/’32)
are good, but the straight-ahead ones, pre-
ferably with the shearing-shed at the end,
are just as good and not so expensive to
build. Round a drafting-yard I have found
it very convenient to have two or three little
paddocks. Sometimes it is necessary to yard
a mob bigger than the yard is built for.
It. saves time to let a sheep have its own
way. Yard as many as will go in and let the
rest enter a little convenient paddock tem-
porarily.
“Blaekall”: Venice turps is good for
drawing out stakes in horses, but if it’s not
available try a mixture of kerosene, soap
and sugar. Plaster it on the affected spot
and wrap a bandage around tightly and
leave all night. Unless the stake is deeply
embedded, the end of it will be poking out
far enough in the morning to be grasped by
pliers.
“Pick” : To stop a hole from being washed
in the soil by the discharge of rainwater from
a downpipe or tank overflow, fit to the bottom
of the spout a discarded motor inner tube
with its end lying a foot or so along the
ground’s surface. The rushing waters will
be spread and no erosion will occur.
“Gumblegubbin”: A drover may carry
meat much better, and save the heavy loss
that often occurs in hot weather, if he
smoke-dries the bulk of it soon after salt-
ing—when it has drained. Stand a couple of
sheets of bark in a shallow, circular trench,
forming a cylinder, cut a piece out of the
bottom of one side to give access to the
fire, and keep a small smoky fire burning
within. The meat is hung on wire hooks
round the top of the “flue.” If this is set
up on the night camp, the fire can be kept
going all night by each man on watch
attending to it now and again. In the
morning the meat will he in good condition
for packing and carrying
“Valerin”: Every farmer should care-
fully study the draft of the implement he
uses in order to get a natural pull. The
horizontal adjustment to make the machine
or implement follow a determined course is
a simple operation; the danger to guard
against is putting too great a strain on the
carrying wheels. The vertical adjustment
to get the natural pull through the centre
of the load is most important. A too-high
adjustment drags the front end of the
plough downwards, increasing the draft and
wear on the front wheel; it also lifts the
rear out of the ground, wasting power. A
too low adjustment lifts the front of the
plough, thereby losing power.
“Gardener”: To get the best from organic
manure, pit it. Tip in all the garden rub-
bish and waste straw and a few tins of
lime. If no rain falls, give it a liberal
watering now and then and fork the whole
lot over at intervals. It then spreads better
and gives a greater food value to the plants.
“Bufforp”: When the birds are in the
moult they feel climatic changes badly.
Split a number of old feedbags and pin them
to the netting fences in the windy corner of
the yards, round a corner. The fowls will
then get shelter and what sunlight there is
needed this time of the year.
“H.D.8.”; Graziers combating sheep-fly
pin their faith to ordinary bluestone
solution, but when asked the strength
they seldom know, as the common prac-
tice is the suspending of a bag of
bluestone in a container of water until
the solution attains a light blue color. This
practice is dangerous, as concentrated solu-
tions exert harmful astringent properties, as
well as staining the wool and thus reducing
its market value. Solution stronger than
10 p.c. (111 b. to 1 gallon) should not be
used; the addition of arsenate of soda at
the rate of loz. to the gallon makes an
excellent swab.
“E.H.M.”: To cool down an overheated
engine bearing, mix together sulphur and
engine oil to the consistency of thin paste
and apply.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Well-educated girl, Vic., exp. as book-keeper,
secretary and correspondent, wants employment. In
country preferred.—B9s7.
Elderly station book-keeper, able to perform light
duties, wants employment.—B977.
Freeholding- sugar-cane farmer wishes working
partner for dairying. Rich soil, good rainfall,
adjoins main line, coastal Q. —8910.
Sheffield cutler, N.Q., exp. in plating, can carve
knife-handles any material, wants employment.—BBs7.
Financier required on 1200 ewes, due to lamb to
Border Leicesters, Parkes (N.S.W.). —8881.
Sydney manufacturer wishes to get in touch with
popcorn-growers.—B969.
To buy Shakspeare’s plays complete, in one or
two volumes.—B97o.
To buy “Illustrated London News” January 16,
1932.—8961.
Words of verses “How Adams Won the Battle of
Waterloo.”—B947.
Words of verses beginning “It was on a Sunday
morning, we were sitting on the rail.”—B94B.
Information Sought.
What is the liability of shareholders in
respect of the special Federal tax of 2s. in
the pound on dividends paid wholly or in
part out of company income derived from
conversion-loan interest ? —BB5l.
It has been ruled that dividends paid out
of such interest, whether or not the interest
is used exclusively for that purpose, are
subject .to the special tax in'the hands of the
shareholders.
(1) How to prepare shark flesh for the
Asiatic market? (2) What sharks are best
for the purpose? (3) llow much dried flesh
does each shark yield? —BB9o.
(11 The flesh of the shark is cut into
strips a foot long; these are soaked in brine
and then hung in dehydrators to extract the
moisture. - At a temperature of 130 deg.
Fahr. the flesh is thoroughly dehydrated in
20 hours. It is then ready for shipment.
(2) The whaler. (3) A ton of shark yields
about 1801 b. of dehydrated meat.
.(1) Gan trout be caught in N.S.W. waters
with a net? (2) What lawful baits may be
used? (3) Gan any explosive substance be
used in the capture of fish in N.S.W. waters?
—8897.
(1) No. Any person who catches trout
by any means other than a single rod and
line is liable to a fine. (2) Small fish,
insect larvae, worms, or artificial baits.
(3) No.
I understand the P.M.G. Department
intends issuing stamps for official purposes
overprinted with the letters OS instead of
the usual punctured letters. Is this correct,
and if so, when is the new overprint to be
issued? (2) Will it be possible to pur-
chase these stamps at a post office? —8853.
(1) This is correct. Several values have
already been over-printed OS in double-lined
capitals. Up to the present moment the 2d..
3d. Kingsford Smith, the 6d. air-mail and
the Id., 2d., 4d. Georgians have appeared
with this overprint. The remaining values
and the Bridge stamps will no doubt be simi-
larly treated. (2) With the exception of
the" 6d. air-mail, which was sold in small
numbers at the G.P.0., Sydney, the general
public has been unable to purchase these
overprinted stamps.
I intend building a three-valve set (bat-
tery operated) from a specification which
mentions a 0.0005 M.F. tuning condenser.
(1) If I replace this condenser by one of
.00025 M.F., will I halve the maximum wave-
length to which it will tune? (2) Using this
condenser, if I double the inductance of the
tuning coil, will / still be able to tune up
to the same wave-length as formerly? —BBBs.
(1) The wave-length varies as the square
root of the capacity and inductance. If a
certain capacity enables you to tune up to,
say 600 metres, by halving this capacity the
set will tune up to .707 of this wave-length,
or 424 metres. The capacity of the tuning
condenser would need to be four times
smaller if only required to tune up to half
the original wave-length, or 300 metres. (2)
If you halve the capacity and double the
inductance, che set will still tune up to 600
metres or probably a bit higher, due to the
extra large self-capacity of the tuning coil,
bttt it will not tune down to as low a value
as would the larger capacity and smaller
inductance.
How can white ambergris be identified
and what is its value? —8865.
It is chalky-white, brittle, and possesses
a very faint musty odor. It crumbles when
scraped with the finger-nail. A slightly-
heated piece when worked between the
fingers becomes soft, plastic and brown in
color. Some samples exhibit a pitted or
honeycomb surface, and under the magnify-
ing-glass are seen to consist of both white
and light yellow resinous-looking materials.
Value, generally speaking, is equal to that
of best grey ambersrris. which ranges in
price from 80s. to 120 s. per ounce.
I have a picture of a landscape in which
the whites have turned blue. Any explana-
tion? —8860.
The artist in painting the picture probably
used flake-white .containing lead, and sub-
sequently fumes from sulphur or other
gases changed its color. It is advisable
where there is any danger of this happen-
ing to paint with zinc white.
/ am thinking of going into a newspaper
agency in a Vic. country town. Gould you
give me an idea as to what the rights would
cost and conditions of rights? How many
papers daily to make a profit of £3OO p.a. and
general information as how to buy? Is there
an assured return for capital invested?
5742.
(1) Goodwill varies from £79 to £l6O per
£1 of weekly profit according to the propor-
tion of newsagency business done. Rights
are assured provided agent performs liis
work to satisfaction of newspaper offices.
Number of papers required to provide £3OO
per annum would vary, as business is usu-
ally associated with many other lines. Aver-
age gross profit from newspapers is 25 p.c.
Agencies are sold by all leading brokers and
by secretary Authorised Newsagents’ Associa-
tion, 37 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
What is the story attached to Rachmanin-
off’s “Prelude in G sharp minor”? —8898.
So far as we are aware the composer has
not connected the prelude with any story.
It is popularly known as “Bells of Moscow,”
and the principal theme certainly sounds
like the chiming of great bells. The agitated
middle section may be made to suggest a
flight in terror, but is capable of various
other interpretations.
My pet galah, fed on rolled oats and wheat,
is subject to periodical fits. Have tried
castor oil without any success. What is
wrong, and what’s the remedy? —B7B9.
Cause is deficiency of vitamines. Feed the
bird on crushed maize. This should be put
into hot water and allowed to soak overnight.
When the bird is able to crush up the hard
seed, the soaking can be dispensed with. In
addition feed on pollard paste containing a
few drops of cod liver oil Don’t give tea,
cake or bread.
In what cases must letter-boxes for the
delivery of correspondence be provided by
occupants of suburban dwellings and where
must the boxes be erected? —8912.
If the door is more than 12ft. from the
street a box must be erected on the street
frontage.
(1) I have a number of old Id. and 2d.
Nciv South Wales stamps, some of which are
dated between 1882 and 1895. Are these of
any value? (2) Does the age of a stamp
determine its value? —BB94.
(1) It is unlikely that they have any
market value. (2) Market value is deter-
mined not so much by age as by quantities
issued and popularity. Some of the very
early New South Wales, such as the Sydney
views and early laureated heads, are of con-
siderable value. They were issued in small
numbers.
Is a watch affected by powerful magnetic
fields, as those created by dynamos, alter-
nators, etc.? —B9oo.
Yes. The hair-spring and balance-wheel
are made of steel, which becomes magne-
tised in the vicinity of a strong magnetic
field. This may cause the hair-spring to be
attracted towards the cross-arm of the
balance-wheel, and so stop the watch or
cause it to keep erratic time.
Eight persons are in a syndicate divided
into 48 shares, six holding five shares each
and tivo nine shares each. One of the
holders of nine shares is dropping out and
the others are taking over his shares on the
ratio of their former interest. How should
the shares be apportioned? —BBs6.
To each holder of five shares, 1.1538
shares ; to the holder of nine shares, 2.0763
shares.
A reliable test to determine whether con-
crete is frozen instead of properly hardened?
—8874.
Apply hot water. If merely frozen it will
soften.
(1) When a tick bites a person should the
tick be pulled out immediately? (2) Are
tick bites serious? (3) Should a doctor be
consulted? —8870.
(1) Yes, but drop some kerosene or tur-
pentine on it first. (2) In some persons
tick bites produce faintness, nausea and
sometimes paralysis. (3) Yes, if serious
symptoms appear.
I intend making fishing-rods from Q’land
timber. Gan you tell me (T) how to select
pieces from the felled tree, and (2) how to
season the timber? —-8803.
(1) Straight-grained trees must be selected,
and subsequent splitting of billets and saw-
ing must be done by strictly following the
direction of the grain. Once straight-grained
billets have been split from a log, it is more
economical to have middles and tips sawn
from these than by further splitting, pro-
vided the saw cuts are made to follow
the grain. Mature wood from fully-grown
trees gives the best results. (2) Timber
should be seasoned for at least two years
when in billets and then sawn up when dry.
This avoids warping and twisting of thin
pieces while drying. The timber should be
dried very slowly in a cool place under cover
to prevent air cracks from developing. The
ends of the billets should be painted or
greased to prevent too rapid seasoning and
consequent splitting. Small sizes when
freshly sawn should immediately be tied in
bundles, and protected from dry winds,
to keep them straight until the freshly-sawn
faces have reached an air-dry condition.
(1) Is mining engineering an overcrowded
profession? (2) How long would it take to
qualify? (3) Is a uni. degree essential? (4)
Cost of training? —B73o.
(1) Yes. (2) Three to four years. (3)
A degree or diploma materiallv helps (4)
£3OO to £5OO. . . . ’
, What method of signalling should be
observed by cricket umpires in conveying
their decisions to the scorers? —BBB6
Boundaries are signalled by waving the
hand from side to side, byes by raisin*- the
open hand above the head, leg-byes by raisin**-
the leg and touching it with the hand wides
■by extending both arms horizontally, no-balls
by extending one arm horizontally “out”
by raising the index-finger above the head,
and “one short” by bending the arm up-
wards and by touching the top of the nearest
shoulder with the tips of the fingers of one
hand. Umpires should wait until a signal has
been answered by the scorer before allowing
the game to proceed. Before signalling, the
umpire should speak his decision distinctly
for the information of the players.
A horseshoe magnet induces an . electrical
current hi the coils of insulated wire wound
over each leg. Does the current induced in
these coils increase with the number of
turns? —8828.
A current is induced in the coils only when
they move in and out of the magnet’s field.
The EMF induced depends upon the number
of turns and the number of lines of force
cut per second by each coil.
Best time to prune hydrangeas? 8916.
June or July, cutting back to two eyes on
the new growth made this year. After the
pruning give the shrubs a dressing, of rotted
manure and regular watering. A light trim-
ming off of straggly branches can be done
now.
I have several rock-lilies which have : been
in the same position for five years without
flowering. What’s wrong with them? —8930.
Probably in an unsuitable position or soil.
Rock-lilies require early morning sun, a
sandstone base with a little earth and regu-
lar light watering. Transplant if in unsuit-
able site, and procure bush soil and apply
it to them.
What evergreen flowering shrubs are suit-
able for Dalby (Q.) ? —BBlO.
Tall shrubs : Lonicera fragrantissirna, Cas-
sia didymobotrya, Ligustrum lucidum. Jas-
minum primulinum, Oestrum newelli . and
Nerium oleander. Dwarfs ; Lonicera nitida,
Ligustrum ovalifolia aurea, Veronica varia-
biiis, Daphne rubra, Hypericum chinensis
and Punica nana.
Is Portland cement a, modern product, and
how was it first used? —8888.
It was patented by Joseph Aspdin in
1824, and its first use was as mortar for
under-water masonry, but with the perfec-
tion of its manufacture it came into general
use for masonry mortars and for the making
of concrete. The history of concrete, how-
ever, goes back into the dim places of his-
tory. The Romans in their heyday made
many concrete structures.
Formula for making waterproof black ink?
—8635.
Take 4 parts bichromate of potash, pul-
verised, and mixed with 25 parts acetic
acid, 50 parts liquid extract of logwood,
J part picric acid, 10 parts pulverised sal
sorrel, 10 parts mucilage and i part citrate
of iron; mix well. The liquid extract
of logwood is prepared by mixing 3 parts
of an extract of common commercial quality
with 2 parts water. Waterproofing is
secured by mixing in a little ordinary glue.
(1) Where does the Great Dividing Range
begin and end? (2) Does it lie on the
eastern or western side of Snowy River?
(3) Is Brown Mountain part of the Great
Divide ? —8726.
(1) The so-called Dividing Range, which
is not a single range, may be said to begin
at the south-western part of Victoria and
extend to the whole eastern part of the
continent as far north as Cape York. It
has different names at various parts, but
the name is principally applied to 1 the east-
ern mountains of N. S. Wales and Q’land.
(2) The Snowy River lies to the eastern
side of the Australian Alps and the Snowy
Mountain Range, which can be said to be
part of the Great Dividing Range. (3)
The Brown Mountain, near Bega, is part of
the mountain system of eastern Australia,
but is not on the actual water divide. The
Brown Mountain, north of Newcastle, may
be similarly classified. There are other
mountains of that name in the State.
What are the artistic merits and demerits
of the 2 sin. by 4}in. photographic picture
size as compared with the 2\in. by 3-j in.
size? 'Ninety per cent, of my pictures arc
horizontal views. I intend purchasing a
new camera with a better lens. —B6Bo.
All depends on whether you use your
negatives for enlarging. If so you should
find 2|in. by 3iin. useful for a greater
variety of purposes than by 2Jin. If
you have been using a sin. focus lens use a
4in. focus with the smaller film, and you’ll
get as much of the view on your film as you
did with the larger size. If you don’t
enlarge, stick to 4iin. by 2iin. The pro-
portions are quite pleasing for most com-
positions.
llow to mix white shellac? (2) What
would cause shellac, when mixed with
methylated spirits, to become like gelatine
when exposed to the air? —B727.
(1) Same way as any other shellac.
Break it up as small as possible, and pour on
methylated spirits. \ pint to 4oz. of shellac.
Stir occasionally till dissolved. (2) Result of
using an unduly large proportion of shellac
to spirit.
What are the proper ingredients and pro-
portions for rough-casting a concrete-block
residence? I want it to have a “pebbly”
effect, and to be a dark-cream c010r. —8676.
One part cement to 2 parts of sand and
2 parts of screened ashes of about |in. size.
The yellow color is obtained by mixing 51b.
of yellow oxide of iron with cement. This
mixture is made up to a fairly thin consis-
tency, and is then thrown on to the wall
immediately after plastering, and before the
mortar has had time to set. The mixture
may be thrown from a trowel or applied by
means of a stiff brush or a broom.
(1) Who teas the sculptor of the Apollo
Belvidcre, and (2) why is it so named? —
8868.
(1) Attributed to the Greek sculptor Cala-
mis, fifth century b.c. (2) Called Apollo
because it represents that god, and surnamed
Belvidere because it was placed in the Bel-
videre gallery of the Vatican.
What is the derivation and meaning of the
word Sino? —8722.
From Latin “Sinse,” the Chinese.
What was the reason for the very low
birthrate in Australia during the convict
period ?— 8895.
It was due to the disproportion of the
sexes. In 1821 there were only 27.2 females
to every 100 males. By 1828 the percentage
had fallen to 24.6, and as late as 1836 it was
only 28. By 1846 it had become 39.5.
Brief Answers.
H.W.: (1) Dairy work at Seymour is
not under regulation regarding wages. (2) Consult
Registrar Arbitration Court, Lionsdale-street, Mel-
bourne, regarding Federal award, which may affect
crutching, lamb-marking, etc A.T.8.: Yes....
L.M.A.: (1) Yes, without going too closely into
details, but outlining the essential features. (2)
No. (3) To a very great extent. The complete
specifications must not differ materially from the
provisional.... A.L.C.: (1) and (2) After obtaining
a patent, approach manufacturers. There are English
agencies which would act for you. (3) Try Dooley
and Martin, 12 Probert-street, Camperdown, Sydney.
. ...G.C.T.: Not practicable. When egg-eating is
prevalent, it is necessary to catch the culprit and
dispose of it....P.W.: Applications for the registra-
tion of trade-marks may be lodged at the Trade-
marks Office, Commonwealth Bank Buildings, Sydney.
Fee on application, £1; registration, £2....
J. J.H.: Soak the surface with lacquer thinner, scrape
off the heavy portions, wash with benzine, prime
with Berger’s “Dusseal’’ (cement sealer), and finish
with oil paint. The alkali in the fibro cement sheets
has saponified the oil in the original paint, due to
you not using a proper priming... .T.P.: (1) No;
any person who transacts business for another on
the basis of a commission acts as liis agent. (2)
Yes; but in such a case you would have to register
the firm’s name. You could) do this by post. A
form of declaration can be procured from the
Registrar-General’s Department, Queen’s-square,
Sydney. (3) No; it is a matter of adjustment
between principal and agent... .A.J.8.: After such
a lapse of time and without further details you
would have great difficulty in tracing it. If left
by will and you know the name of the testator,
you might make inquiry from the Assistant Pay-
master-General, Supreme Court Pay Office, London;
or in Queensland from the Registrar of Probates,
Brisbane A.E.C.: (1) Yes. (2) No. (3) It is
not producible in court as evidence of the contract
unless stamped or until stamped and fine paid.
Penalty not exceeding £2O; generally determined
according to the time document has been left un-
stamped.... M.C.: (1) Moratorium dees not apply.
(2) The mortgagee would rank as a preferential
creditor in the bankrupt estate.... .R.J.H.: Write
H. E. Edmonds, care Eastern Extension Telegraph
Co., Singapore, Straits Settlements... .D.M.8.: The
trouble you refer to does not appear to come within
definition of “accident.” It may be covered by some
other provision recognised by the Insurance Commis-
sion. Get legal advice before acting... .H.J.R.: Apply
to shipping cos J.R.8.: (1) A full list is given on
page 51b, Sands’ N.S.W. Directory (1932). (2)
You would have to ascertain rates from the cos.
(3) From Dept, of Labor and Industry, Sydney.
(4) From N.S.W. Govt. Insurance Office, Sydney....
V.E.K.: Write to the Govt. Printer for the syllabus.
. ...R.H.M.: Can’t say from information supplied.
Send full particulars as to the age and the soil
on which the trees are growing, together with
specimens of the fruit and leaves, to the Agriculture
Department, Sydney. .. .E.G.H.; Enough ethylene
gas to treat oranges can be produced by burning
kerosene in lamp or stove... . A.F.: The chicks are
suffering from canker, which grows and eventually
obstructs the trachea, causing suffocation. For
prevention, adequate accommodation in houses and
good ventilation are essential. The waxy substance
should be removed with some blunt instrument and
the affected parts painted with a mixture of glycerine
ten parts and iodine one part.... A.G.: Believe
there were negotiations, but can find ncvrecord. Doubt
if the then Prime Minister would have caused the
idea to be rejected. You might, however, inquire
from him B.: Try Greenwood and Batley,
Leeds, England, who may be able to supply a
machine. Technique of process is explained in
“Fats and Waxes,” by Ildrich, and “Oils, Fats and
Fatty Foods,” by 801t0n... .C. 8.: The creditor on
whose behalf the solicitor acted is responsible for
the payment of his costs. You should not have
paid. .. . J.MaC.: (1) Yes. (2) Yes R.T.M.:
Write N.S.W. Public Service Board, 33 Hunter-
street, Sydney... .M.J.P.: Under-Secretary, Agri-
culture, Melbourne G.C.F.: Size and pitch
of propeller depend on speed of engine. If
your engine delivers 2f horse-power at the shaft, and
the boat is fairly light, you should get about six
knots in still water. Cost of propeller should not
exceed 12s P.D.C.: (1) A kit-kat canvas is one
measuring 28in. by 36in. (2) Sir Godfrey Kneller
painted a series of portraits of members of the
Ivit-Kat Club to be hung in the general meeting-
room. The walls of this room would only accom-
modate three-quarter-length portraits, so they were
made 36in. long. The club was named after Christopher
Katt, who supplied it with mutton-pies, and the
canvas was named from the club. .. .H.S.; Academy
figures are drawings in black and white chalk on
tinted paper, made direct from life, and so called
from being a form of figure drawing much in favor
with academicians of the last generation. .. .A.C.E.:
Write C. F. Laseron, 19 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
. ...A.A.: It is packed by Japanese, who hold a
fishing concession from the Soviet Government.
. ...J.8.: (1) Yes. (2) Address all contributions
to the editor. (3) Threepence per line.. . . J.H.M.N.:
Damage to buildings by wind is covered by the
householders’ comprehensive policy, which covers
fire and most other risks. Any fire office will quote
you. .. . J.S.N.: An aboriginal name for tobacco is
jimbuckie; smoke is duki. Mareeba is the abo. name
for a dusty whirlwind or duststorm. We can find
no meaning for Dimboola. .. .W.C.D.: Get in touch
with H. P. Gregory and Co., 74 Clarence-street,
Sydney... .G.E.: Consult “Statesman’s Year-Book”
in any public library... .C.L.: Capt. W. J. Symons,
V.C., of the 7th Batt., A.1.F., was bom in Bruns-
wick (Vic.)... .H.R.8.: K. Pribil, Box 368655,
G.P.0., Sydney. .T.A.: Marine cooks are working
under a Federal award. Write to the Deputy In-
dustrial Registrar, Commonwealth Arbitration Court,
Darlinghurst Y.A.M.: Can’t say without inspec-
tion. Get in touch with Robertson and Mullens,
107 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne M.J.: “Farmer’s
Handbook” (10s. 6d.) ; “The Soil,” by A. D. Hall
(10s. 6d.) ; “Pruning,” by W. J. Allen (35.) ;
“Pigs,” by H. W. Potts (12s. 6d.) ; “Poultry
Farming,” by J. Hadlington (45.) ; “Money in
Bees” (Bs. 6d.) ; “Principles of Fruit-growing,” by
L. H. Bailey (15s. 6d.) ; “Australian Sheep and
Wool,” by A. Hawkesworth (255.) ; and “Elementary
Agricultural Chemistry,” by H. Ingle (6s. 6d.). . . .
J.A.D.: You are entitled as from Oct. 1, 1931, to
the benefit of the Interest Reduction Act, which
provides that interest shall be reduced by 4s. 6d.
in the £, or such smaller reduction as, in the case
of mortgages, will bring the rate down to 5 p.c.
.A.D.: Such an agreement is deemed to be a
mortgage, and under the Moratorium Act time for
payment of the principal is extended till early in
1933. Arrears of interest or rates for two years,
breaches of covenants for insurance or for preserva-
tion of property, let the mortgagee into possession
without leave of the Moratorium Court. No action
is required on your part. .. .D.C.D.: In the event of
your death, you being the last surviving trustee,
your legal representatives would have the power
of appointing a trustee. Such appointment would
have to be made by deed F.C.A.; (1) May 9,
1917. (2) Under the direction of St. Margaret’s
Hospital. (3) Government of New South Wales.
(4) and (7) Not known. (5) About two acres.
(6) 21ft (Many others mailed.)


Blue north
By
H.Drake-Brockman.
Synopsis : In 1576 John Fordyce,
leaving liis extravagant and discon-
tented wife Euphemia, sails from Fre-
mantle for the Blue North in search
of pearls and freedom. Getting divers,
including Nguri, from the Gascoyne
River tribe, he reaches Cossack. John
wins the hero-worship of Sophie, Ma
Gantiet’s little slavey. Bella, the hand-
some barmaid of Mark’s pub, becomes
infatuated with him : they spend the
night together. Meeting again before
he sails he is casual, but she restrains
her passion only because Baia Bud-
son, a brutal pearler whose woman she
is, is present. Fordyce’s divers make
a good beginning; he. is fishing a bank
when he secs Budson kill a female
diver. Captain Mac Koo tells him to
forget it. Blaming the girl for For-
dyce's neglect of her, Bella, by insi-
dious suggestion, gets Ma Gannet to
sell Sophie to Baia. John decides to
take Sophie with him on the Sprite.
Budson goes to drag her back, but
Fordyce belittles him before ribald
Cossack. Sophie is rapidly recover-
ing; but when other pearlers sail into
Cygnet Bay she cannot bear to face
them, and John yields to his old desire
to venture where no man has sailed
before.
CHAPTER XVI.
Wherein John Fordyce thinks about
Sophie a great deal more than he
expected ; and the Sea Sprite is caught
by the tide. /
AT what precise moment John Fordyce
ceased to regard his self-elected ward
as a child he was never able to tell.
At times he thought that he must always
have been aware of the potential woman, at
others he felt he had not glimpsed even a
shadow of maturity until that day UP
which he happened to glance into Sophies
face, radiant with welcome, as she leant over
the taffrail to watch him clamber up after
a long day out with the divers. So infini-
tesimal was the gap between unconscious
perception and accepted knowledge that
distinction was impossible. He only knew
he thought about her more and more. JNo
longer could he fling an arm across her
shoulders in semi-paternal affection or watch
her with serene eyes of fatherly amusement.
She crept into his mind as an incarnation
of the freedom he loved; the unstudied
grace of her movements, the wind blowing
in her hair, the sudden surprising flash of
her smile, embodied the glory of the golden
days, the sharp, clean sting of the spray,
the lift of the schooner to the waves of
the spacious seas she sailed. The child
herding goats on the hills at Cossack, patheti-
cally delighted at the treat of a visit to his
ship, had merged into an artless nympli
born, like Aphrodite, of foam and breeze.
Babbet took all honor for the change m
Sophie to himself. “The poor thing s bin
treated rough and ’arf-starved fer mont is,
he told John. “She’s a credit to the ship
now, if I may make so bold, sir.
John, looking to where she stood laughing
and calling out in excitement on the for-
ward deck, smiled self-consciously, and
assured himself that, whatever folks might
say, the result amply justified his action.
Amid shrieks and capers the divers were
playing a shark on a line which had been
left out overnight. Only after much effort and
repeated failures was the struggling monster
pulled to the side. Little Jacko slipped
down a rope and plunged a knife in its
throat. Twitching and bleeding, its evil
jaw still snapping, the shark was hauled
aboard. Despite the booty on deck the
natives continued to crowd the rails, sum
hands pointing, voices yabbering. Sophie
leant over with them, but before long she
joined John on the main deck with a
shadow in her eyes.
“There’s a baby one with it,’ she ex-
plained. “Poor little fish! It’s swimming
round and round looking for its mother. It
nearly went mad and tried to follow when
they pulled her up out of the sea. I couldn t
bear to watch it.”
“I never heard anyone sorry for a shark
before,” commented Wilson with, for him,
a broad smile. “It will grow up quickly
enough, and as like as not account for some
wretched diver.”
“Maybe it will,” retorted Sophie. But
it’s a baby now and it’s crazy with terror
at seeing its mother dragged away. I hated
to see it trying to reach her.” #
“Well, baby or not, it would give you a
nice nip if it got the chance.”
“I know,” she replied obstinately. But
I love all baby things. I can’t bear to see
them hurt. It is a poor little fish, Mr.
Wilson, whatever you say, because it
minded so "much.”
The streak of sensibility in Sophie,
matched with a fearlessness for any danger
other than a comprehensible terror of
human violence, charmed John. So quickly
had her speech refined, and so obvious her
pleasure in the amenities of life upon which
John, very much a member of the fastidious
Fordyce family, always insisted, that he,
like Babbet, sometimes wondered if indeed
she were the daughter of old Peter Gannet.
He did not know she watched his every
gesture, modelling her words, her manners,
her very thoughts in the likeness of her
divinity.
With the merciful resilience of youth, she
began to forget the evil of the past. Only
occasionally now would it leap from some
dark corner of her brain like a ravening
beast. With each succeeding week she met
the aggressor more bravely, routed it with
less of shame and terror. The kindness
of the men aboard the Sea Sprite made a
reassuring weapon to her hands, and, ever-
present behind the horror, the shade of dear
Peter bade her remember that men could be
tender and just.
As the immediate past faded, so her
worship of John Fordyce reasserted itself.
Added to her conception of him as the
most courtly and cheerful among men was
an abject adoration of his goodness in
saving her from the wickedness of Baia and
old Ma. From the ends and scraps of
information garnered from the books she
had read with Mrs. Coffey and stored in
the recesses of an impressionable mind, she
endowed John with the qualities of the
knights of King Arthur’s Court, of the
young Samson wrestling with a lion.
Sometimes this flux of emotion spilled
into her eyes. She could no more help
gazing at John than a dog can help peering
at its master. At first the man scarcely
noticed her rapt expressions, but as weeks
slipped by he grew uncomfortably conscious
of Sophie’s preference for his society, of the
way her grey eyes lit when he spoke to her.
Uncomfortably because he read into her
attitude its right interpretation of hero-
worship, whereas he was by that time
already prey to the personal nature of his
own sensations. Once again peace of mind
deserted him. Having taken her away, he
must be fair to the child. But how be fair
when emotion weighed in the balance?
John Fordyce began to think ahead. At
first he had taken no account of the future,
Sophie had seemed such a child to him.
Now he realised he could not always have
her on the Sprite—perhaps, indeed, not so
very much longer, for it would take a
stronger man than John Fordyce knew
himself to be to face such intimacy as a
ship entailed, once passion took a hand.
But what could he do? Persuade Mrs.
Coffey to take her when her wounds were
healed? He knew that could not be;
Sophie would never be happy in Cossack.
He damned Euphemia again, bitterly re-
gretting she was not the sort of woman to
take an interest in any young girl, least of
all one with Sophie’s unfortunate history.
At length he relinquished any attempt at
conclusion. They were all happy aboard
the Sprite; time enough to worry when he
turned her bows to the south.
Whilst John Fordyce awakened to the
place Sophie was finding in his heart and
the girl grew in the grace of dawning
womanhood, the Sprite sailed ever to the
north. She skimmed deep waters beneath
cliffs towering along the eastern coast of
King Sound, blue seas where not a quarter
of a mile from shore the leadsman found
no bottom. Two nights they swung the
lead in vain hope of discovering an anchor-
age, sailing under reduced canvas beneath a
brilliant moon. The charts showed no-
thing but a coast line, frequently dotted at
that; not a reef, not a shoal, not an island
marked to help the unwary mariner. At
last Wilson sighted land ahead and John
thought with delight of a sound night’s
sleep. They anchored in seven fathoms in
the lee of an island, where scrub-covered
hills sloped to a rocky shore.
On the morrow John ordered a dinghy
to be lowered, and presently, with the mate
and Sophie, he was sailing in search of a
safer anchorage and possible shelling
grounds. Lightly they slipped down the
shore, steering for a distant point. Round
their goal they sped, right into a little
bay, where a horseshoe of white sand met
their delighted eyes.
The boys gaped in amazement. “Then
Marskungawu, Boss!” they cried, and
Sophie echoed: “Look!”
They had chanced on a native feast.
High on the clean sands sat a tribe of
aborigines, men, women and children, a
gathering of fifty at least. One moment
they stared at the boat with its shining
sail and pale occupants, then with a frenzied
cry rose from their haunches and vanished
amidst the rocks. But for the abandoned
meats not a trace of human existence re-
mained.
The white men ran the dinghy ashore,
and with hands resting on revolver butts
advanced up the beach. Sophie danced
ahead till John ordered her back, but the
natives, Nguri and Jacko, kept close behind
the boss.
What a spread met their eyes! Fish—
a dozen varieties at least—oysters and shell-
fish without number; wallabies and brush
kangaroo fresh-roasted; crabs; several
species of root and piles of grass-seeds,
lying beside little wooden vessels ready to
be ground to flour!
“Having a birthday party,” suggested Mr.
Wilson. Sophie laughed in glee and picked
up a coolamon, a dish hollowed from a
branch, carved and painted with a red
ochre.
“Put it down, Sophie,” said John. “We
won’t touch a thing. I’ve no fancy to be
added to the list of dainties on the menu!
If we don’t hurt them they probably won’t
touch us. They appeared terrified—l ex-
pect we are the first whites they have seen.
We’ll not leave ’em a bad impression.”
Nguri and Jacko rolled longing eyes at
the cooked food; they had not tasted fresh
meat for weeks, but they were too wise to
succumb to temptation, for they had recog-
nised the inflexible quality of the boss’s
voice.
Up the beach fro.m the camp they dis-
covered a crowd of canoes. These were
the first native craft John had ever seen;
he studied them with interest. They were
made from logs of a timber light as cork
and not unlike it in appearance, clamped
together with hardwood pegs in a manner
which would not have, disgraced the_ most
expert carpenter. They would hold five or
six fully-grown persons apiece, and the
sight of galleys made from flat stones in
one end of the two largest filled John
with astonishment. No shoresmen these,
with their boats prepared to cook food!
They must be accustomed to roving far
afield, propelled by the muscular arms of
their crews and the double-ended paddles
lying stacked close by.
Not a sign of a native could they see,
however hard they scanned the hills. Never-
theless, John experienced the uneasy feeling
of being the cynosure of a hundred un-
seen eyes. They were none of them soriy
to return to the dinghy and push off.
although the boys clearly regretted leav-
ing so much good tucker untasted.
“We’ll not try this bay, Mr. Wilson,”
said John. “I am never one to start trouble
with the natives. We’ll stand on for the
north.”
So northward still they sailed and found
another bay up on the coast, and tried bank
after bank with varying success, until the
water in the tanks sank low and John
began to talk of making back to King
Sound and Cygnet Bay. Yet he found it
difficult to frame that order. What fascina-
tion in watching the sun rise over the
mountainous outlines of the mainland; or
to cruise with sheer precipices towering
hundreds of feet above the top mast of
the Sprite, searching for isles and reefs
where the boys might dive into virgin seas!
Reluctantly he altered the course; but,
when, sailing south at last, they passed a
likely-looking inlet, John could not resist
a temptation to explore.
Due east they ran before the breeze, and
all the time the spring tides swept faster
and faster and the land piled higher on the
starboard side. Fiercely and swiftly the
tide was swirling them along, when a gap
in the walls of rocks showed up. Wilson
declared it must be a river. As the Sprite
drew off the opening they crowded to the
rails. Keen eyes caught a glimpse of blue
water and of ranges blue in the distance, a
fleeting glimpse shut out all too soon by
the coast.
“It must be a huge river!” cried Sophie.
“Do let us go, Mr. Fordyce.”
.John looked down into her eager face.
She was but voicing his own thoughts; yet,
convinced as he felt that the gap must
prove the mouth of some mighty water-
course, he hesitated to take such a risk.
He studied his charts again. Not a river
mouth within thirty miles of where they
sailed. Could he dare to rush in, and sail
south with a new river marked upon his
charts?
Still undecided, he put the vessel round
and stood on towards the gap, determined
at least to take a nearer view. In less than
ten minutes they could see the tide ripping
like a mill-race towards the opening. The
cliffs leapt towards them. Too late John
knew that they were doomed to enter
whether he liked it or not. The tide had
them!
CHAPTER XVII.
Wherein the Sea Sprite sails into an
enchanted harbor, and Sophie learns
her first lesson in love.
John Fordyce made a rush for the wheel.
He pushed the helmsman unceremoniously
aside; as enter they must, he would steer
the Sprite himself and hope for the best.
With bowsprit pointing straight for the
centre of the gap, the schooner swept on;
to her helpless human freight it seemed but
a matter of seconds before they were in-
side the narrow channel, hemmed in by
towering cliffs, rushing towards they knew
not what, borne impotently upon a seething
torrent. Not a breath of air stirred the
sails, yet the walls of rock sped past at the
rate of many knots, and the roar of the
inrushing tide beat on their ears like the
voice of a mighty gale. Now rocks loomed
straight ahead. It looked as though the
little vessel must be dashed relentlessly
upon those impregnable walls. For one
half-second John wondered if indeed the
sea vanished into a subterranean cavern;
the next moment the channel twisted so
suddenly to the left that the Sprite quiv-
ered as she turned. The rocks fell away
on either side; before the enchanted eyes
spread a sheet of fair smooth water.
The tide, weary of its plaything, tossed
the ship aside; she drifted placidly until
a puff of breeze bounded over the hills and
caught the slack canvas.
“Heave the lead,” ordered John, fearing
they might yet meet disaster in shallow
waters. An answer of “By the deep, twelve
fathoms,” soon quelled any misgiving. Nor
in the days which followed did reefs, other
than such as they desired to work, worry
them at all. A much larger ship, a whole
fleet of ships, could have sailed with ease
upon that strangely discovered harbor.
“How beautiful!” exclaimed Sophie
ecstatically. “How beautiful!”
For the first time the taciturn mate felt
moved to praise.
The Sprite rode upon a land-locked har-
bor. The rock walls had closed t behind
her; no visible opening to the sea remained.
Islets, green with grass and scrub, dotted
the inlet like malachite embedded in a
ground of sapphire matrix. Here and there
along encircling shores the emerald glint
of mangroves lay against ruby and sard of
rock and soil; emerald and malachite and
cornelian the towering hills. To the east
tke land grew rugged. Amethyst gullies
clove the green slopes, scarlet precipices
topped the ranges, sweeping away, away to
one tremendous rampart, azurite against a
topaz sky, reflected glory of an invisible
western horizon where the golden sun was
sinking to the sea.
The little company of whites stared be-
witched to silence by such lavish display.
Each in his own way felt he had chanced
unawares upon a casket of jewels; each,
however unconsciously, was hoarding the
richness of the moment against whatever
poverty the succeeding years might bring.
As they' - drifted silently onward towards
one of the islands in the lee of which John
meant to anchor should the ground shoal, a
long thin trail of smoke stained the purity
of the sky, hung a moment, dispersed. A
second answered, a third, a fourth. Thin
veils hung out to bid the tribes take notice
of intruders.
“Niggers,” said John. “We must keep
a sharp lookout. If they’ve got canoes like
those back on the island, they must be
considered. We’ll try for shell to-morrow.
Mr. Wilson; this seems to me a likely-
looking spot.”
John swept the shores with his glasses.
A moving glimmer fixed his attention, caus-
ing him to focus for a long time on one
stupendous cliff. Eventually he handed
the glasses to Wilson.
“I think I see a waterfall.” said he.
“You do, Mr. Fordjme. Nothing surer.
Your good fortune again, sir! However
rich these banks, we could not stay long
without water.”
But John did not hear him. He was
looking at Sophie, still leaning over the
rail, her face a crystal globe transparently
revealing the enchantment of her thoughts.
He crossed and leant beside her.
“Do you like it?”
“Oh, how can you ask, Mr. Fordyce? It
makes me think of one of Mr. Tennyson’s
poems. The one I liked best—l can’t re-
member the name, but it was about a place
some sailors discovered, and it was -so
lovely they wanted to stay for ever. Didn’t
I* hear you tell Mr. Wilson just now that
you saw a waterfall? There v T ere water-
falls in the poetry, too—it called them a
‘downward smoke,’ I think. I can always
remember the last line because I used to
wish Peter and I could find the place.”
“What is the last line, Sophie?”
“Something like ‘Rest ye, brother mari-
ners; we will not wander more.’”
A, breeze sweet with the beady scent of
spinifex from the hills whisked a strand
of fine brown hair across John’s lips.
“We’ll stay a while at least, Sophie.” he
said in a. suddenly husky voice. Then
turning quickly on his heel, he walked oft
to talk business with the mate.
Next day they lowered the dinghies and
sent the divers down. They soon found
they had indeed struck a rich patch. For
countless ages the oysters had lain secure in
this hidden gulf. The shells were big
and heavy, their backs so loaded with
marine growth that John Fordyce, watch-
ing them tumble into the bottom of his
dinghy, rejoiced; surely now he would find
pearls! The boys were excited too, so


h
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from '
VV. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
BIG ADVERTISERS use
this gi;eat paper.... exclusively
The Brisbane “Courier” is read in every corner of Queensland:
read for its authentic news, its authoritative articles, and for its
sound guidance on all public questions. Big advertisers know this:
they invariably use the Brisbane “Courier”—sometimes ex-
clusively. In 1931 the ‘‘Courier” carried at least 160,000 inches
more advertising than its morning rival: it carried almost as
much as two other Brisbane dailies together. Be guided by those
FACTS—largest circulation—widest coverage in city and country.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland’s Leading Daily Newspaper—Established 1846.
Representative: ROBERT D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. (BS007.)
h
An Australian
Industry That
Leads The World
gC’ROM modest beginnings ADVANX has risen to a
•*- v position of leadership, not only in Australia, but
the whole world.
ADVANX manufactures for domestic usage and
exports equipment and rubber for retreading, and
conducts a one-day retreading service throughout the
City and Suburbs.
Country motorists are catered for by branches situated throughout the length
and breadth of Australia.
Consider these facts when you want retreads, and remember —-
IF THE QUESTION IS TYRES , THE ANSWER IS
Branches Everywhere
thick the bank they worked. They bobbed
up and down with undiminished energy;
nor did the tides, in the lee of the islands,
run with such force as to render their work
exhausting.
That night Sophie found three pearls and
a handful of baroque. She danced with
glee, like the childish creature she often
was, so different from the sweetly solemn
girl whose presence John had left in haste
the evening before.
“A stringer,” she exulted, “and a button
and a double button! Oh, but this is
heavenly!”
And, much to the amusement of the two
men sprawling in their hammocks beneath
the awning, she began to sing a chanty.
They had not heard Sophie so much as hum
a tune before:—
“Oh, Nancy Dawson —
Heigh-o cheerly, men!
She’s got a notion
Heigh-o cheerly, men!
She’ll have our bos’n,
Heigh-o cheerly, men,
Oh, hauly, heigh-o, cheerly, men!”
“More, more—encore!” they cried; ana
even Wilson roared with laughter when she
demurely piped words he had often heard
bellowed by a dozen lusty throats:—
“Oh, the mate got drunk and he went below,
To take a swig at his bottle-o,
So early in the morning;
The sailor likes his bottle-o!”
She sang until long past their usual bed-
time. The natives crept down from the
forward deck to listen; and Babbet tapped
■an accompaniment in the fo’c’s’le. And
later in the night watches John awakened to
hear the tunes of Sophie’s snatches softly
crooned over in the strange nasal intona-
tion peculiar to corroboree songs.
“Nguri says there are lots of rock oysters
on the islands,” the girl informed him next
day. “May we go for some?”
And so a day or two later, when the
pearls in John’s secret hiding-place had
been joined by two more gems, and the
shells were stacking almost to the hatch-top
of the forward hold, he left Wilson work-
ing and returned to the Sprite for Sophie.
So far they had not needed to go any
distance from the schooner. Now he left
Jacko and another boy behind and bade
Babbet and the Malay keep a sharp eye
skinned for natives. He ordered the flag
on the topmast to be lowered at once if any
spspicious signs showed up. He had long
before realised that their harbor was not
the mouth of any river, but an almost
circular basin some six miles across, with
no outlet other than the one by which they
had so unceremoniously entered. The top-
masts would be visible wheresoever they
were; as yet, though each day smoke
signals drifted in the ranges, not a glimpse
of a native had they seen.
They landed on a rocky point, and,
leaving the boys to knock oysters from the
tide-bared surfaces, wandered across the
island. They found recent traces of a native
camp, littered with oyster shells; the fish
was obviously as popular with the black
man as the white. On the far side they
discovered a tiny beach and sat down to
rest in the shade of a ledge of rocks.
Sophie threw aside her hat and reached
up for John’s.
“Take yours off, too. It’s lovely to feel
the breeze in your hair.”
Looking into her smjling face, at the
rounded brown cheeks aglow with health,
John for the first time asked the girl
directly if she were happy.
Her smile faded. She made a furtive
movement as though to clutch some dis-
appearing treasure.
“Oh, yes, indeed I am! I am not being
an encumbrance, am I, Mr. Fordyce?”
John laughed at the anxious tones, but
his heart contracted.
“Foolish child!” he answered tenderly.
“I only wish to be certain that what my
eyes tell me is true.”
Dog-like devotion darkened the grey of
Sophie’s eyes. Impetuously she seized his
hand; before John was aware of her inten-
tion he felt soft lips pressed to his knuckles
in an ecstasy of gratitude. He drew the
hand away _ hastily; Sophie looked up with
tears trickling down her cheeks.
“I can never say thank-you enough,”
she murmured. “Never, never! You are
wonderful. I love you more than I loved
my Peter.”
Stricken with shyness at her outburst,
trembling as the pent-up adoration of
months found utterance, Sophie hid her
face in her hands. Before John found
time to realise what he was doing, he had
his arms about her, his face buried in her
hair.
“Child,” he said, “I love you, too —but
not like Peter.”
The girl sensed the difference of his
emotion in the very touch of his body.
And like a rushing tide the past engulfed
her.
“No, no!” she cried pitifully.
John released her immediately; instantly
the knowledge that she had wounded him
hurt Sophie more than her own nausea.
“Forgive me,” muttered John. “I forgot
everything but you for a" moment. It was
extremely wrong of me.”
He rose and walked away to the water’s
edge, striving for control, reminding him-
self he was married, that he had no right
to make love to a girl who, despite her
experiences, was little more than a child
and whom he had himself vowed to protect.
He was ashamed that he had so allowed
passion to overcome discretion. But oh!
the sweetness of her!
A white and shaking Sophie ran after
him. She clasped his arm.
“I am sorry,” she panted. “Oh, I love
you dearly! I would die for you!”
John glanced into her upturned face with
a twisted smile. “The trouble is, my dear
child, that I want you to live for me!”
Sophie wrung her fingers in grief. Her
god was asking the one impossible sacrifice.
She felt terrified and cold, so cold despite
the tropical heat of the day! She looked
at John and shivered. Had she remained
in truth the child whom he had rescued,
she would have screamed at him to go
away; but Captain Mac Koo and Babbet
had read Sophie far more clearly than
John.
“I will do anything you wish,” she re-
plied in a low voice. And the eyes flutter-
ing over John’s face were a woman’s eyes.
“Don’t, Sophie!” he cried sharply. “I
love you, my dear, and God knows I’m
abusing what faith you have in me. But
love between a man and a girl can be
beautiful, Sophie. I wish Never mind,
child—come along and find the boys and
let’s forget.”
Sophie lay awake all night in her narrow
bunk. In her chaotic mind mingled day-
dreams she had once woven about John
Fordyce, and worship more lately offered at
his shrine; like ravening wolves her memo-
ries harried and tore at the idols of youth.
What would Peter tell her to do? He had
always been so stern over a man’s duty.
Was it not her duty to obey Mr. Fordyce
in everything? Had he not saved her from
Hell? Surely nothing else on earth could
touch the depths she had already plumbed!
If only she might die for him—that would
be easy! The glow of martyrdom warmed
her through and through; but try as she
might she could not forget that twisted
smile as he said he wanted her only to live
for him.
She gave a whimper of pain. She had
hurt him, she had hurt him! What
matter how much she were forced to endure
if only she might please him!
Before dawn she made up her mind with
the unbounded and transparent optimism of
youth. She would go to him, would say she
had changed her mind; would he please to
teach her to love him in any way he liked.
And she would pretend so Weil that he
would not guess the cost!
Sophie set her teeth; perhaps such make-
believe would not be so terrible as she
thought. But she opened her eyes, and, in
order to drive the demons of fear from her
mind, sat up to stare at the first cold light
stealing over the hills.
Yet when she tried to tell Mr. Fordyce
of her decision she found herself tongue-
tied. Her courage failed whenever she so
much as looked at him.
Throughout the following days, though
John studiously avoided being alone with
the girl, and hardly trusted himself Jo glance
at her, Sophie stared at him through dif-
ferent eyes. How tall he was, how intense
the blue of those lively eyes, how dear the
little twist at one corner of lips which had
asked her to live for him!
In desperation she sought her unfailing
friend Babbet. He had daughters, perhaps
he could tell her—well, she hardly knew
what, but she would talk to him and see.
“Babbet,” she asked, as he served lunph
in the shade of the mainsail, “do other girls
like men to make love to them?”
The old cook smiled a little, followed her
gaze to the dinghies, moving in the distance
like water-beetles across the surface of the
inlet. Then he sat himself down beside her,
and long before he cleared away the dishes
a great many other matters had been
cleared up for Sophie with a delicacy and a
sureness which effectually scoured off the
slimy track of old Ma.
“An’ I kin guess fer why you ask,” ended
up the cook. “An’ y’ kin take it from
me there ain’t no better chap walkin’ nor
’Andsome Jack Fordye.e, even if he did leave
’is wife. I seen fer some time which way
the wind’s blowing. ’E thinks a devil of a
lot of y’, and y’ needn’t pretend y@u don’t
think the sun ups and sets on ’im. I could
see thet the first time ’e fetched you ’ere.
All men ain’t Baia Budsons, me dear. You
had a bad time with thet, but take an old
man’s tip, me child, an’ fergit it quick with
John Fordyce.”
He walked off well pleased with himself,
chuckling at the thought of as pretty a
romance as an old sailor could wish.
Sophie pondered his words and found
them wise—though whether she would* have
appreciated such wisdom had not her own
heart already turned in the same direction
is a different matter. And when, the fol-
lowing evening, she found yet another pearl,
and taking it to show John inadvertently
touched his bare brown arm, the blood ran
into her face in a blush of sweet embar-
rassment without a hint of shame.
A blush! To John Fordyce one of the
dearest sights his eyes had seen. Sophie
blushed when she touched him, instead of
shrinking away with'pitiful white lips!
He glanced hastily along the deck. It
was empty; Wilson had gone below. He
took the girl’s hand in his, pretending to
look at the pearl; but he whipped the little
globe of light into his pocket and kissed
the imprisoned palm.
And Sophie learned her first lesson be-
fore ever she found courage to ask him to
teach her; for though the Fordyce men
might be fastidious, they were ever impetu-
gallant lovers.
(To be continued next week.)
Moon and Sea.
Mine are the twisted lips that love forgot,
The seared blind eyes strained to v the
bitter dark.
The heart that hungers for it knows not
what,
The hand that trails a torch without a
spark.
Being of those to whom no subterfuge,
No dear illusion wholly can avail,
To make Life less a trull in silk and rouge
Aping the lady of a lover’s tale.
Yet, I am happy here, where all dreams
merge
Misting the death-white moon, the moon-
white sea,
As who attains from time’s unquiet verge
To the starred silence of eternity.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


Le Chapeau
Roll it up, pack it between a
novel and your pyjamas—
then take it out, unfold it
and you have a perfect HAT,
made of pure Fur Felt, abso-
lutely without a crease. Le
Chapeau is an uncrushable
Australian Hat, made from a
French model, extremely light,
smart, and available in all
sizes in colors of Drab, Steel
and Fawn. Send your
size to-day. Price,
27/6
Pike Brothers Ltd.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
ROYAL GOLD & CURRENCY EXCHANGE CO
40 MARTIN
PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Phone:
85417
(Registered)
Highest Rates for the following Currency:
Licensed Buyers of Alluvial Gold and Broken Jewellery of all
kinds. Specialists in Black Opals.
Reference:
E., S. & A.
Bank, Sydney.
New Zealand
and Interstate
clients consign
all goods
direct.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. 0. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: E. J. Tait, Frank Tait, J. H. Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: BLUE ROSES.
With MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITCHARD.
7 C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: BITTER SWEET,
First production In Australia.
KING’S THEATRE:
THE BARRETTS OF WIMPOLE
STREET
With MARGARET RAWLINGS.
Notice.
, ~pO become acquainted with the ex-
tended collection of Choice Flower and
Vegetable Seeds, including Valuable
Novelties, offered by Fosters, Ltd., it is
necessary to obtain their 1932 Catalogue.
Posted free to intending buyers.
FOSTERS, LTD.,
192 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
ARTHUR GRANVILLE BROWN, son of
Henry J. Brown, of Crapthorne, Hitchin,
Herts, England, is requested to communi-
cate with the PUBLIC CURATOR, Bris-
bane.
Pref. Shareholders
and Their Rights.
This is among the
many subjects of vital
interest to investors
discussed in the April
issue of
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY"
READY NEXT SATURDAY.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Announced during the week as “an un-
likely starter,” Jacko, The Bulletin’s
choice for the Doncaster Handicap and one
of the outsiders of the field of 25, was duly
saddled up by the younger Lamond and
landed the stake brilliantly in the fast time
of lmin. 37isec. Not often do “unlikely
starters” come out and do this sort of thing;
but thei-e is a mournful tradition in a big
Australian newspaper office that if a name
is inadvertently omitted on race-day from
the list of acceptors for a big handicap the
animal owning it is sure to win. There was
no reason in the world why the people behind
Jacko —Lamond trains him for bookmaker
Williams—should wish to withdraw their nag.
He had been raced into fine form and was
never likely to get into a Doncaster with
6st. 71b. again, or into an Epsom with a
stone more. As a matter of fact he carried
31b. overweight, but the extra poundage made
no difference to horse or jockey (young
Lightfoot), who rode the little black with
excellent judgment.
Waugoola was favorite at 5 to 1, and
lie looked well enough to win if he had been
good enough. The same applies to Dermid
(7 to 1) and Winooka (8 to 1), but some
excuse may be fairly made for Lightning
March (10 to 1), who got away badly. Leg-
islator drifted from near favoritism to
twelves, which was surprising. He i*an a
capital race, and so did Tom Pinch (25 to
1), who did nearly all the leading and held
on with unexpected stoutness. Jacko was
ninth or tenth at the half-mile; he gradu-
ally made up his ground, and was challeng-
ing at the distance, along with Tom Pinch,
Legislator, Gallantic and Chatham. Finish-
ing much the best of the bunch, Jacko shot
through and won by a length and a quarter
from Legislator, who was the same distance
*t f
Gert : Vouve had that knock in
THE ENGINE REPAIRED ?"
tr
Bert: Yes, I fixedthat up
ALL RIGHT."
Gert: * Clever e»oy! how did you
oo IT?"
Bert thh n\uo guards
off':
in front of Tom Pinch; then came Killar-
ney, High Disdain, Lightning March and
Winooka, Dermid being among the last three.
Jacko’s price with most of the bookmakers
was 25 to 1. A few offered 33 to' 1, and a
Bulletin man heard 50 to 1 called in one
place—of course, there would be very little
of that. The converted tote can exhibit
only 21 numbers; where there are more
than 21 bracketing is resorted to. In this
case Legislator was bracketed with Light-
ning March and Jacko with Bold Boy; thus
the buyer of a 10s. straight-out ticket on
Bold Boy would have Jacko going for him
as well, and vice versa. This naturally re-
duced the Jacko divs.; nevertheless on the
10s. grandstand machines they were £lB 19s.
6d.—just on 37 to I—straightout1—straightout and £3
Bs. for a place. If the Bold Boy obligation
had not to be carried as well the straightout
div. would have been quite 50 to 1.
“I’ll take six to four—seven to four bar
one,” was McSliortodds’s call on the Autumn
Stakes. The horse barred was Nightmarch,
who, with Phar Lap abroad, has resumed his
position as the best of the older horses in
Australia or Maoriland; the others were
Second Wind, Chide, Compris and the Met-
rop. winner. Strength. Compris, who was
second in the Dunedin Cup with 9st. 81b.,
made nearly all the running, with Night-
march trailing him, and stuck to a hopeless
task'gamely. Passing the public stand, he
looked sure to run second, Nightmarch at
this stage having the race in hand, but Veil-
mond and Second Wind bore down on him
and cut him out of the places. Veilmond
was a fast-finishing second, a length behind
Nightmarch, but he did not seem to put any
heart into his work till the issue had been
decided. He is more at home in handicaps
than w.f.a. races. It was a slow mile and
a half considering that the track was in per-
fect order —2min. 36sec.
Reminiscent of bi-ighter days was the prize
added to the sweepstakes for the Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes. It will be a long time before
it reaches £5OOO again. Backers selected
Oro (7 to 4) and Kuvera (2 to i) as much
the best of the 13. They were right as
to Kuvera, but Oro’s fifth at the finish was
the nearest he got to the front, and it was a
strung-out field. Vauntry (8 to 1), a nice-
looking chestnut colt by Heroic —Vauntress,
not unlike his sire, was second, three lengths
behind the dashing Kuvera, and may turn
out the better stayei’, but he had no chance
at seven furlongs with the son of Brazen —
Varta Mozzle; it was reserved for Turbine —
like Oro, a Tippler colt, bi’ed by Hunter
White—to run third. Kuvera is trained by
George Price for “F. Smithden,” and was
ridden by McCarten.
The Victorians had their turn in the A.J.C.
St. Leger, in which Middle Watch again
proved himself superior as a stayer to
Ammon Ra. The Maoriland gelding was a
shade the shorter in price—6 to 4, whereas
Middle Watch was at 7 to 4 —and the pair
had the race to themselves, Johnnie Jason
(5 to 2) being last most of the way. Ammon
Ra rushed to the front three furlongs from
home, as Sir Andrew did in his year, and
still had a decided lead at the Leger, Scan-
lon having, up to that point, taken things
easy on Middle Watch. As soon as he began
to drive the son of The Night Patrol along
the gap was rapidly narrowed. Fairly out-
stayed, though he struggled on with the
courage he has always shown, Ammon Ra
was conquered by a length and a quarter,
Johnnie Jason being four lengths away and
the time 3min. 4fsec. Perinthus, a half-
brother to H'eroic and full brother to Cim-
bx*ian, was the disappointment of the race;
he finished last of the six, well behind
Maurice Bede and Tenacious.
Nearly everyone wanted to have some-
thing on Rogilla (3 to 1) in the Vaucluse
Handicap. He had beaten Jacko by lengths
in the Cabramatfa Handicap, and it was
argued that if he had been left in the Don-
caster he would have accounted for the three-
year-old again. This is improbable; Jacko
was injudiciously ridden in the Cabramatta,
and, anyway, Rogilla’s task in that race
was lightened by Grey Ben cutting at
Jacko from the start. On this occasion
Grey Ben was steered with patience and
reserved for a final run. This he got on
the rails, and with the favorite coming on
the outside a very interesting finish was wit-
nessed. The judge’s verdict was for Rogilla,
with Tantrum third, and the big crowd went
home tolerably happy, for, except Jacko, all
the winners were solidly backed. Dick
Wootton and party put in heavily on Birth-
day Present in the Vaucluse Handicap.
Birthday Present is a stylish sort, and his
time will come.
Both Saturday and Monday there was per-
fect autumn weather and secretary Cropper
was well satisfied with the crowds. Tom
Pinch’s exacting Doncaster performance
evidently told on him, for he could not get
a place in the La Perouse Handicap, which
went to Holdfast (6 to 1), easily, from
Casque d’Or and Parkwood, with Whitting-
ham —not sighted till very late on the voyage
—fourth. Holdfast gave no trouble in the
Doncaster, but he is no miler now. The
Easter Stakes saw Tingalba (6 to 4) fail
badly and Oro redeem his reputation to
some extent. Oro finished fast, but not fast
enough to catch Milantheon (20 to 1), whose
victory was naturally relished by the book-
makers. He is the first of Pantheon’s pro-
geny to win a good race, and if he inherits
his sire’s staying power he may turn out a
Cup horse. His s.o. tote div. for 10s. was
£l4 13s.
On his St. Leger performances Middle
Watch was the logical favorite for the Syd-
ney Cup, and his price in the ring was
never better than sto 2; it closed at 7to 4.
He had lightened a bit since the St. Leger.
“He did the same in Melbourne,” his friends
said, but he is not a hardy customer, as
Winalot and Windbag were. The race was
run in the slowest time (3min. 32sec.)
recorded on a good track for many years;
this, no doubt, contributed to the surprise
result. It certainly did not help Pretzel
(20 to 1), who, drawn on the rails, seemed
to be galloping on the heels of the horse in
front of him most of the time; then, with
about five furlongs to go, he was knocked
back nearly last. Admiral Drake and
Johnnie Jason, who were always in the
first three, came into the straight lengths
ahead of the next horse, Agincourt; and it
was soon evident that one of the leaders
must win. It proved to be Johnnie Jason,
who worried the Maorilander out of it by
a head; Veilmond, coming late, as usual,
cut Agincourt out of third place. Pretzel
was next; Middle Watch never travelled like
a winner.
Johnnie Jason is a good game three-year-
old, and no one begrudged Newcastle its
victory; but it is questionable whether the
gelded son of Treelare —Sweet Rosaleen is
a true stayer.. Wilson rode him admirably.
Tote divs. for 10s. were: £l9 Os. 6d. and
£4 4s. 6d. Johnnie Jason; £2 16s. Admiral
Drake and £1 13s. 6d. Veilmond. Ring
prices were 20, 20 and 4 to 1 respectively,
so the machine beat the bagmen badly
again.
It was a treat to see the style in which
Chatham carried 9st. 131 b. to success in the
Biraganbil Handicap. Windbag’s son may
yet turn out the clinker he gave promise of
being before he contracted influenza in the
spring.
For the remaining days of the meeting:—
All-aged Stakes: Ammon Ra; next,
Winooka.
Coogee Handicap: Lightning March; next,
Hazrat or Birthday Present.
Cumberland Stakes: Nightmarch.
City Handicap: Pretzel; next, Agincourt.
Birthday Present may be worth follow-
ing on the tote. He is in the Rous Handicap
on Saturday, as well as the Coogee Handi-
cap to-day. And though Hazrat ran badly
in the Doncaster he looks a likely sort;
perhaps he will be reserved for the Final
Handicap, and he is not likely to be over-
weighted. Pretzel may not be up to w.f.a.
form, but with a stronger rider a good handi-
cap should come his way.
* @ * #
The four men who gave 6750 guineas for
Dominant (Saltash —Weltea) were R. E. H.
Hope, J. Fell, F. Robinson and E. M.
Pearce. _ Fell and Robinson retain their
interest in the chestnut, and must have
got a fair parcel of their money back these
last couple of months. Second favorite, at
9 to 2, for the Easter Stakes at Williams-
town on Saturday, the high-priced one led
all the way, scoring by half a length from
King Mart (10 to 1) in lmin. 39|sec.:
Rosetta was third. Little King Crow, well
known in Sydney, was favorite. Dominant
would have been a better representative of
Victoria in the Doncaster than anything sent
over.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“Bendigo”: Poor old George Cook, who
must be the best-battered boxer in captivity,
has been dragged out again to take some
more hidings in Europe. The latest merrie
jest was to match him with Camera. Men.
with whom George could not stay five rounds
have been unable to withstand the Italian
giant’s bulk and wallop, which must connect
sooner or later with a tired and bustled
man. What Camera thought of the busi-
ness was contained in his offer to use 16oz.
gloves while ■ George uses the regulation six.
It is all rather pitiful, but one supposes
George is like the Yankee caterer who
charged five dollars for a sandwich “because
I need the money.” He was knocked out in
lour rounds.
* * * *
Mclntosh has regained control of the Syd-
ney Stadium and is bidding for a Dompsey-
Carnera match. The Mclnstoush concern, with
Earl Beauchamp as president, has been
registered as the National Sporting Club.
It ought to get an encouraging kick-off from
the Blay-Delaney match.
$* * $
Having had a 50-50 arrangement in four
other matches at Leichhardt, Tom Lurich and
Walter Browning cut Saturday night’s gate
60-40, and each strove strenuously for the
winner’s percentage. Lurich’s combination
hold gained him a fall; Browning equalled
matters with what is known as the “octo-
pus” hold. Browning then threw the Rus-
sian about as if he were a mattress, but a
body-scissors made him submit in the fifth.
Lurich: two falls to one.
“Let” : What’s the record for long rallies
at tennis? America claims it for Misses
Woolf and Cervorst, who hit the ball to
each other 167 times before one of them
broke down. This is piflle beside the show
put up some time ago in a tournament at
Bordighera in Italy. There Mrs. Satter-
whaite, of Eugland, and Signorina Valerio,
of Italy, had a rally of over 500 pats !
H* * sj« %
“Richon” : The Russians are not to have it
all their own way in the matter of staging
an athletic show in opposition to the Olym-
piad (B. 9/3/’32) ; the Palestinians are
shortly to hold the first Jewish Olympic
Games at Tel-Aviv. Only Jews will be
eligible to complete, though they may come
from anywhere outside Palestine. It must be
a long time since anything of the kind has
taken place. It is on record that the Romans
were accustomed to compel teams of Jews to
run naked for the delectation of the crowd in
the great circuses, but that hardly comes
under the head of sport.
* * *
“Poppet”: Many followers of sculling in
Australia will be glad to hear that Tom Sul-
livan is still flourishing as coach of the Berlin
Rowing Club. Tom, who was caught in Ger-
many when war broke out., and interned, was
a great sculler in his day, winning the ama-
teur championship of Maoriland in 18S9
and giving Jim Stanbury a great race for
the world’s professional championship on
the Parramatta in 1892. In 1893 he went
to England and beat George Bubear for the
English title, remaining there as a coach
before he went to Germany to coach Fritz’s
Olympic team in 1912.
s? * * ffi
“Don Crew”: The N.S.W. surfing season
was remarkable for the high standard of
efficiency displayed by country clubs and for
the downfall of the 1930-31 champions, not
one of whom succeeded in retaining his title.
The premier club of surfdom is now Bondi,
which wrested the pennant from North
Bondi. Bronte holds the march-past cham-
pionship, and Swansea the senior surf-boat
title. Manly’s Olympic representative, Noel
Ryan, took a day off from still-water swim-
ming to capture the open surf championship
from Owen Griffiths, of Bondi.


THE PERFECT ONE-MINUTE SWEET
DELICIOUS Biscuits, of light cake-like texture, with a most tempting
blend of the choicest Australian dried fruits. Made from the
very finest selected ingredients, and produced by the latest
scientific methods.
Arnott’s Famous Spicy Fruit Roll Biscuits
warmed in the oven for a few minutes, and served with cream or milk,
make the most perfect after-dinner sweet in one minute.
Manufactured by WILLIAM ARNOTT, LIMITED,
the BISCUIT SPECIALISTS of. 64 years’ experience.
AMMOTTS
FAMO U S
BISCPITi
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR THEM.
The Ins and Outs
N. S. Wales and South Aus. wound up
the cricket season equal in respect of Shef-
field Shield matches played—they each
won four and lost two—but with N. b.
Wales ahead on averages. So Ma State
regains the Shield. But S. Aus. proved the
superior side in the concluding tussle on the
Svdney C. G. To a first-innings lead of 2o
the Wheatfielders added 225; Nitsclike
(119) and Whitfield (30) were run out
when going well, and O’Reilly (5 for o 9)
went through the others, with a little assist-
ance from Theak. N.S.W.’s hopes faded
when Wall skittled Bradman for a blob, and
only Bill (46) and Fingleton (24) stood
up for a time against Grimmett (4 for 32)
and Lee (2 for 34). Certainly McCabe was
an absentee, but, 9 for 118 was a rotten
score on a wicket with which there was
little or nothing the matter. S. Aus. finished
118 to the good.
* s-:
“Wodgil”: Bradman’s duck against South
Aus. was his second for the season. On
each occasion a fast bowler took his wicket;
Gilbert did the trick at Brisbane in the
match wherein the abo. lad was unsport-
ingly accused —not, of course, by Don—of
throwing. In the last innings Bradman
played last season, in the fifth Test match
at Sydney against the West Indies, Griffith,
who. was pretty fast, likewise bowled him
before he had scored. At times the Bowral
hoy gives the impression that he likes fast
bowling less than slows or medium-paced
stuff; then in the -next match, or the next
innings, he will knock the expresses all over
the place. The English had better not draw
any hasty conclusions from the feats of
Gilbert and Tim Wall.
Racquet and Bawl
“Ilotham”: Before his departure for
Europe Satoh sized up Australia’s Davis
Cup chances. In his opinion Crawford will
have to be at his top and win both his singles
to give Australia a chance, since Hopman
is not as good as Lott, Shields or Wood. In
the doubles Crawford and Hopman have an
even chance of winning against America, and
that’s all. England, strong in singles but
with no particular doubles combination,
should win the European zone. In the chal-
lenge round Satoh thinks Coehet will retain
the Davis Cup for France on his own, what-
ever the challenger.
* * ■( *
“Milton”: E. F. Moon has been elected a
life member, of Queensland L.T.A. in recog-
nition of his services to the game. Good
man as he is, Moon has disappointed many
who once predicted big things for him. He
won an Australian championship from Craw-
ford and other stars, but on other occasions
slumped badly. His patchy form is pro-
bably due to the fact that, as a farmer out-
side .Brisbane, he cannot get regular prac-
tice in first-class company.
“Let”: J. O. Anderson has been advocat-
ing the adoption in Australia of the five-set
principle in international and other import-
ant matches. In J.O.’s opinion the custom
of limiting such matches as those against
our Japanese visitors to three sets is ill
advised. Elsewhere five sets are the rule
in important games, and the stamina of play-
ers benefits on that account. Our own
Davis Cup men, accustomed to three sets,
must be at a disadvantage over a five-set
course. There is a lot in what J.O. says.
Not once nor twice in our rough tennis
story, the lack of staying power has been
the road to a wash-out.
* $ * * *
“Sturt”; With Crawford away, Hopman
had an easy time in the South Aus. cham-
pionships, which were a bit flat after the
Australian. events on the same courts a
month earlier. He won all three titles, his
partners being Patterson (brilliant but un-
certain) and Miss Woodward. Turnbull
might have given him a harder match in the
final than did Quist, but had collapsed
when leading the junior 2 to 0 and 4 games
to 1. It promises well for S.A.’s future that
Schwartz downed Quist for the junior title.
In an interesting event limited to the one-
armed, Last, of S.A., beat Evans, of N.S.W.
* #
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Borotra. who has
made as many farewells to first-class tennis
as any prima donna ever did to grand opera,
is back in the game again. The Basque still
insists that he is out of Davis Cup stuff, but
he turned up in America the other day to
defend his indoor championship, and to take
part in the national championships. Borotra
has always excelled at the indoor version
°t the game, which is played almost univer-
sally on board courts. The writer would not
care to lay odds, however, that Jean does not
figure in the French team to defend the
Davis Cup. Unless France has got a dark
horse on ice there is nothing in sight to
better the old firm of Coehet, Lacoste, Brug-
non and Borotra.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: Golf is supposed to be as
immutable as the law of supply and demand,
but even in my short span I can see changes,
lime was when to have appeared on any
links without a coat —in Britain, of course—
was to invite social ostracism, or, at the
best, a please explain” from the committee,
there was a theory, apart from the un-
dressed aspect, that anyone without a coat
must feel so unconstrained that he would be
bound to commit one of the most heinous of
the golfer’s seven deadly sins.—pressing. For
the benefit of a generation that knows not
the expression, I may add that “pressing”
consists in trying to hit too hard instead of
trusting to the swing. A visit to one of
Sydney s swankiest courses recently con-
vinced me that the old clothing convention
has vanished. The only individual I saw
with a coat was the bar steward at the
Nineteenth. Silk shirts and outrageous
nether garments, which were 10 up at least
on Joseph s coat, were the order of the
day. . Some of the players were actually
wearing shorts. No wonder N.S.W. is going
Bolshie.
* ...
Iconoclast”: Someone recently suggested
m the press—;liis name, like that of the
gentleman who burned Diana’s temple at
Ephesus to gain undying fame, is rigidly
suppressed—that the general tone of golf
championships would be greatly improved by
the employment of a band to follow players
through the rounds with music, more or
less appropriate. There is something in
the idea. Some years ago the writer en-
gaged with others of his own mob in a
match on Heliopolis golf-course in Egypt
with certain of a Highland Division. It was
an occasion, not only for golf, but for fes-
tivity, and the Hielan’men brought their
pipers along. To the surprise of everyone
the writer and his mates won the match.
It was, of course, the old stoi’y of the A.I.F.
being faced with apparently insurmountable
odds and winning through in sheer despera-
tion. Wonderful, isn’t it, what music can do?
* * * *
“Colonel Damurize”: You will be sur-
prised, no doubt, to find that I have aban-
doned the vow which I made of not writing
for the press—with a certain amount of
compulsion, be it said—when I wedded an
associate-member of my own club, the late
Mrs. Damurize. I cannot refrain from re-
cording the fact, however, that on my return
from the funeral my route took me through
Auburn. Staying to watch the play of two
lightly-clad youths, I discovered, as they
grew nearer, that they were young females
clad in shorts and open-necked shirts. I
am bound to say, adherer to the conven-
tions of golf as I am, the spectacle was
not displeasing. I understand that members
of this club and others are protesting against
innovations of the kind. Personally, I desire
to maintain an absolutely open mind, so I
shall be out at Auburn myself at the earliest
opportunity.
* * * *
“Statis”: The many who consider that
golf is at best a form of gentle exercise for
elderly gentlemen in feeble health might
consider some figures on the subject com-
piled by an American golfer-mathematician.
A player who hits 50 full shots on a round
does work equivalent to raising a 501 b. load
200 times to a height of 50ft. When the
energy expended on the shorter shots is
added, plus that expended by the player in
walking about five miles during a round, it
is evident that carrying bricks up a ladder
all day is child’s play by comparison. Worse
even than the physical exertion is the mental
energy dissipated on the concentration which
every golfer who wishes to succeed must
command. There is no space to give the
full figures here, but it may be truthfully
asserted that they fully justify the recupera-
tive activities of the Nineteenth Hole.
Car and Cycle
“Royster”: A. Barnes, of Sydney, who
specialises in inter-city records has cut down
his Brisbane-Sydney time, which stood at
15hr. Smin., to 14hr. 47min. Faster time
could have been made had the new road
been followed, but Barnes, who drove a
Citroen, stuck to the Wiseman’s Ferry
route, and covered 693 miles. Some of the
Queensland roads were in bad condition,
necessitating slowing down to 25 m.p.h., but
on the flat in N.S.W. it is claimed 90 m.p.h.
Avas attained at times. That’s an utterly
unsafe speed for any public road.
* $ * %
“Whizz”: Though Malcolm Campbell
failed in his attempt to improve on his own
speed record at Daytona, he performed a
remarkable feat in covering five miles in
lmin. 14.4 sec. As the beach aAmilable for
high speeds is not nine miles long, Campbell
had to get up top speed in two miles and pull
up in the remaining two. Campbell is cer-
tain that the necessity for using beaches as
tracks in these events limits the speed possi-
bilities. Given an artificial straightaway
track, the attaining of 300 m.p.h. will be a
mere bagatelle. The proposed great speed-
way along the coast of Lincolnshire, the
construction of which is only awaiting better
times, may fill the bill.
* * * *
“Extra Air”: The job of equipping ex-
pensive cars with exclusive luxuries becomes
every year a greater tax on the ingenuity of
designers. It seems only yesterday that selec-
tive free-wheeling, synchro-mesh gearing with
ever-running clutch, the “hot-spot,” the down-
draft carburetter and rubber-mounted motor
were hallmarks of the aristocrats of the
motor kingdom. But the latest “Chev.” has
all these features, and in addition General
Motors-Holden, the Australian distributors,
list the car in 10 models and 22 sorts of
finishes. The new engine, though its R.A.C.
rating is only 26.3, gives 60 b.-h.p. at 3000
r.p.m. And this is a car right down near
the bottom of the price-range!
* * * *
“Differential”:. Denistoun Burney is a
warm advocate of changed methods of motor-
car construction. His views on stream-
lining, and the advantages of placing the
engine at the back of the car, are well known,
and he has recently been illustrating the
advantages. Tests conducted by him have
shown that at 77J m.p.h. only 44 h.p. is
required for a properly stream-lined car,
while for one of conventional pattern 784
h.p. is called for. The placing of the engine
at the back of the car governs springing,
affects pitching during braking and accelera
tion, and controls skidding when turning or
braking. Other advantages are freedom from
engine heat and fumes, and more room for
passengers.
“Toe-clip” : It seems time something was
done to prevent cycling events degenerating
into prolonged crawls with a little sprint
at the finish. Here are the times for three
recent finals at Manly: Senior half-mile,
lmin. 29sec.; junior half-mile, 2min. 10 1-5
sec.; senior three miles, 9min. 19 3-ssec.
Olympic rep. Duncan Gray was competing
in the senior races, too.
Miscellaneous
“Topping Lift”: In these days when the
ambition of most Australian yachtsmen is
to own a craft which is, at least, designed
on the other side of the world, it is com-
forting to consider the case of the venerable
Bona, built in Auckland, which made a firs'
appearance on Sydney Harbor 32 years as?o
The old yacht—of late years taking on & a
juvenile appearance by having her old-
fashioned rig shifted to Bermuda— has won
close on 100 races in all company. Durin"
her long career, Bona has had many owners’
the last being W. A. Dettmann, who bought
her from H. J. Fitzpatrick. She will be
thoroughly reconditioned for next season.
“Shell”: Bobby Pearce, now residing in
Canada, has sent over to his native Sydney
for a new racing shell, being of the opinion
that this country makes ’em better than any
other. The boat is now being built in
Sydney and will go to ’Frisco with the
Olympic team. Other people seem to be of
the same opinion as Pearce, for recently a
Sydney builder sent three sculling shells to
Canada. Maoriland crews, which have often
raced in Melbourne, have a strong liking for
Melbourne-built craft. Other orders have
come to Australian builders from Hongkong,
Singapore and other Asiatic centres where
rowing is popular.
s(i Jj:
“Toowong”: The Australian Rowing Coun-
cil, which will meet on April 21, will be
asked by Victoria to hold the next King’s
Cup race in Queensland in 1933, instead of
biennially, as was decided in 1930. It will
also be suggested that the race be rowed in
South Australia in 1936, so as to coincide
with the holding of the National Games in
Adelaide. Queensland is not keen on a 1933
race. It is taking the Bananalanders all
their time to send a crew to Melbourne for
April 23, and the prospect of forking out
for the conduct of an expensive carnival
next season does not appeal. Queensland
will be represented at Melbourne by the
crew winning the State eight-oar champion-
ship at Maryborough on Easter Saturday.
This will leave for Melbourne on April 9.
* * * *
“Sturt”: The eight-oared championship
of S. Aus. was farcical this year. On the
Port river,, with gale against tide, the
Murray Bridge boat was the only one that
did not sink. The State selectors declined
to accept this as a test; so the race was
rowed again next day, and Torrens, winning
comfortably, will go for the King’s Cup.
South Aus. finds it hopeless to mix Murray
oarsmen with others from the city, and now
always nominates a single club crew.
* # * *
“Cash Amateur”: Some of the Sydney
Rugby League clubs did well last season in
spite of the depresh. South Sydney pouched
£1844, Eastern Suburbs £1742, Western
Suburbs £1392. Others were not so lucky,
Balmain and Newtown striking a particu-
larly bad patch. South’s first graders divided
£1679; Balmain could only pay its men £lO
for 20 weeks’ play, and Newtown £l6 for
the same period. A man might as well be
a flaming amateur.
# * $ .;.
“X.X.X.”: The Transport Co-ordination
Act has knocked the stuffing out of junior
League football in Sydney. In the past it
was the pride and glory of these lads to
ride to the convincing grounds enthroned in
motor-lorries —where the teams concerned
were “house'’ shows their employers lent
the lorries. All that is now one with
Nineveh and Tyre. The hooting motors
piled up with players and their lady friends
and flying flags of many colors have been
cut out. AH a team can do nowadays is to
crawl out to the playing arena in a tram.
The honor and the glory have gone out of
it all. There are no flags; worse still, there
are no barrels of beer. Aforetime, when
Bungs’ team was playing Spigots’, there
were lashings of it, supplied free and car-
ried on the lorries.
t- * $ *
Death has been busy among liugby Union
footballers in N. S. Wales. Now Gregor
George has gone: captain of the Y.M.C.A.
team from first to last, and one of the most
elusive five-eighths N. S. Wales has seen,
a very game fellow withal. George played
for his State in 15 representative matches,
nine of them against Maoriland. He was
so devoted to the game and to his side that
he went on the field when he must have
been in the grip of the disease which was
to carry him off, and against which he
made a gallant fight— cheered by visits from
old elubmates and opponents to his. moun-
tain retreat.
* * *
“Long Rest”: There has been a minor con-
troversy in the world of billiards as to the
propriety of potting the opponent’s white.
It is a perfectly legitimate action, but
players who make a practice of it, whether
for the purpose of reaching their game points
or double-baulking their opponent, are
usually as popular as a lighted cigar in a
powder factory. And again it is worse than
a sin—it. is a blunder. The man who de-
liberately restricts himself to playing with
his own white and the red, and thus cut-
ting out the possibility of cannons, is a poor
tactician. It lias been proposed in England
that a player potting the white should be
penalised. For the reasons given this is
hardly necessary, since he usually does this
himself.
“Spike”: Australia’s chances iu the 1500-
metres and mile events at the Olympiad
have been heightened by the disqualification
of Jules Ladoumegue for professional prac-
tices. The Frenchman has a record of 3min.
49 l-ssec. for the 1500 metres and not long
before his disqualification he bettered the
mighty Nurmi’s mile figures of 4min. 10
2-ssec. Barwick, the Tassy runner who will
be Australia’s hope, particularly in the mile,
has 4min. 16 4-ssec. to his credit for the
longer distance. This was done on grass,
which is slower than the cinder tracks of
the Olympiads, and given decent luck there
is every chance of his doing much faster
time.
$ * * *
“Genteel”: First it was complained that
the Australian Olympic team was to be sent
away second-class. By way of “saving face,”
it was announced that the tourists would
cross the Pacific on the Mariposa in the
“cabin class”; and now the maritime unions
are kicking up a dust. Another divergence
from the original programme is the grant-
ing of permission for the hes and slies com-
prising the team to travel by the same boat,
it having been originally intended - to forward
the sexes separately in different argosies.
They are to be given the free run of the
swimming and gymnasium facilities aboard
the craft, which hoists the Blue Peter on
June 4.


AUSTRALIAN ART EXHIBITION
MACLEOD GALLERY,
Bulletin Buildings,
252 George Street, Sydney.
For the exhibition and sale of
Australian art and artcraft.
The public may turn to this gallery at all times and be sure of
finding a representative collection. The works are for sale at
prices from three guineas upwards. Admission is free; and
the public is cordially invited.
The gallery will be glad to sell the artists’ work; but it will
give just as warm welcome to those who only come to admire.
Pictures now on exhibition include works by Sir John Long-
staff, Will Ashton, Streeton, Hans Heysen, Norman Lindsay,
Hilder, Penleigh Boyd, Max Meldrum, J. R. Jackson, Bernard
Hall, Syd Long, B. E. Minns, Chas. Wheeler, Fred Leist, John
Rowell, W. B. Mclnnes, Howard Ashton, Dora Wilson and
many others—2sB pictures in all, with artcraft work by
members of the Society of Arts and Crafts, Vi Eyre, Miss
Newman and Miss Atkinson.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life.
There’s a splendor of pagan festival about
the Show that never fails in its appeal, and
when perfect weather and the greatest show
on earth coincide, the horse and the cow
and her husband draw worshippers in their
tens of thousands. This year, with the added
pull of the Bridge-opening, there has ? been
scarcely room to walk along the Show’s by-
ways without jostling and being jostled; as
for the stands during the ring events, only
those had a seat who had stuck to it for
an hour or so beforehand. Stands and lawns
have been black with humans, and mostly
carpeted with paper bags. Men and women,
girls and boys, the smell of. cattle and the
earth mounting to their brains, have gazed
with rapt eyes on the pacing of Ayrshire,
Black Angus-Aberdeen, Jersey, Devon and
their kin —a triple ring within a ring, of
colorful hide, of liquid or baleful eyes, on
ballerina legs, on legs beef to the ankle.
When 200 or more of the solid beauties,
shorthorns, longhorns and leghorns stepped
into position and formed an impressive
tableau of the Harbor Bridge, the enthusi-
asm was terrific; and the passage of the
wool, wine and wheat tableaux raised cheer
after cheer.
The man beside this Letter knew all the
aristocrats by name. “Ah, there’s the Duke, ’
he muttered, but this had no reference to
Debrett. It was the Duke of Derrimut’s
flashing hooves he mentally saluted. He
called Hobartville Starlight a pretty crea-
ture, and grew almost lyric over a cow
named March Blower. Then there was the
thrill when occasionally a bull broke from
its attendant, and the continuous earth-piean
that arose in moos and neighs. But it took
the horses to really put spirit and dash into
the ring. Here, rearing to the blue sky, his
glinting hooves spurning the turf, was Vala-
mita; there, the heavy magnificence of Cry-
stal Tide and his Clydesdale brethren, the
lightness of the Arabs, the centaur-like
mounted police, the stolidity of Lennie
Gwyther, the schoolboy who rode from
Gippsland to the Show, the gallant bearing
of the girl riders, the unexpected when a
horse tossed off its red-coated rider and
frisked around with the police horses. Thank
goodness ours is a country that can make
a brave show no matter what Government
is in the saddle, no matter how terribly
man’s muddling has beggared us!
The opening was a grand affair of which
the seasoned enthusiast took not the slight-
est notice. The official luncheon was replete
with Governor-Generals, Governors, politi-
cians, and show magnates. Prime Minister
Joe Lyons and Jimmy Scullin and Jack Lang
were there, and Sir Philip Game, Victoria’s
Lieutenant-Governor and South Australia’s
vice-regal Hore-Ruthven. The speech-
makers were on a dais, giddy with flags,
erected before the members’ stand, and tne
general purpose of their oratory seemed to
be that we are all jolly good fellows seeking
only each other’s good. After the speech-
making there was the R.A.S. Council s
tea-party on the Council’s stand. To
this came the G.-G. and Lady Isaacs,
whose black chiffon frock had a faintly-
pink cowl collar. Her black straw bat
wore a white gardenia. Alexander Mac-
Cormick’s lady brought her visitor from
England, Lady Anderson. The latter evi-
dently felt our breeze cool, for her little
black hip-length coat was furry and her
brown frock was of wool marocain. Mayor-
ess Walder was one of the smartest in the
group; her coat was short, her skirt was
checked in green and black and white and
her furs were sable. Ii.A.S. Secretary
Somerville and his wife, the Lawrence
Ennises, the new Mrs. Tony Hordern, very
snug in sables and berry-red jersey cloth,
Sam Hordern’s lady, in navy and squirrel,
Doreen and Dinah Hordern, Mrs. Hubert
Fairfax, Mrs. Budge with daughter Sadie,
and the society’s vice-president Angus and
his wife were others who sipped tea at a
table whose flower-decoration was, of course,
a model of the Bridge. It was of varying
shades of blue delphinium and maiden hair,
its approaches were lily of the valley, and
beneath its roadway flowed a tide of blue
tulle.
If you were a woman worth the name
you couldn’t keep yourself away from the
dahlias in the big marquee. Here the flowers
were beautiful in the soft golden haze:
zinnias, gerberas and dahlias, the last be-
wildering in their blaze of mauve, amber,
pink and deep reds. You sniffed the plenty
of the Hall of Agriculture, where towering
pyramids of apples—Jonathans, Granny
Smiths, Rome Beauties and what not—were
crowned, inexplicably, with a pot plant;
one pyramid that bore a crown of apples
had a palm growing out of the imperial
centre. You saw an eternity of break-
fasts in the ham and bacon and honey;
enough vegetables and fruits and nuts were
there to serve an Empire’s dinner; around
the corner were wines, sparkling and still, to
accompany them. And you had to sigh
agreement with the bright-eyed old country-
woman who sniffed: “It’s not want that’s
ruining this country. It’s lack of thrift!”
You pTobably peeped in at the toy dogs on
their blue and red satin cushions, and in
their silk-hung and valanced boudoirs; and
then, of course, there were the sideshows,
the tent where £20,000 worth of Chinese
tapestries spread their magnificence. Maybe
the flea circus caught you and the shrine or
the disembodied lady—you saw her on the
poster outside cut in three sections. And
even if the snake-charmer failed to lure
you, you fell a victim to the lady glass-
blower, busy blowing her glistening spirals
into a model of the Harbor Bridge.
Oh, this Bridge! Is there ever an end
to it? In the gmallgoods shops you see it in
sausages and pork chops; in the sweet shops
it rises in all sorts of sticky messes; even
the grocer builds it in packets of tea!
Randwick was very exciting on Saturday,
apart altogether from the racing which the
A.J.C. had in a very civil fashion provided.
First of all there was the game “Have you
seen the Countess?” to which the most appre-
ciated answer was “No, where is she?” and
the most narking a careless “Which Count-
ess?” That was, if not heretical, at least a
sign that you were a bit declasse. Second
only to the Countess game was the trail of
the Tony Horderns and Morna MacCormick.
The advent of Tony and his young bride
caused as great a stir almost as the winning
of the Doncaster by The Bulletin racing
man’s tip, Jacko; as for Morna and her tall
young man, Colin Anderson, their passing
was as the stirring of the wing of romance.
They are to be married to-morrow at St.
Mark’s.
Well, to begin with, Lady Game didn’t
come to the gee-gees; perhaps it was part of
her programme for the observance of Holy
Week, a period in which Sydney has not yet
learned to be socially abstemious. But Sir
Philip and South Australia’s H'ore-Ruthven
were the lunch guests of the committee, and
Lady H'ore-Ruthven had a bite with Mrs.
Colin Stephen, the latter being in black,
while her vice-regal guest chose a scheme of
browns. The Earl and Countess of Jersey
arrived with her father, Ken Richards. They
looked two nice youngsters, he a little pale,
she undoubtedly pretty, # but no prettier than
a dozen other young things around her. _ She
wore a frock of currant-red finished with a
soft white collar, with white shoes, and her
hat was of white felt —not at all extreme in
smallness or one-sidedness. With this group
were Mrs. Sam Hardy and Mrs. H. C.
Osborne. These two, who were the Mac-
arthur twins, are now very smart matrons;
the one was in navy and white, the other m
the prevailing black and white. The frock
that clings from bust to knee was worn by
every second woman. How the fulness below
is introduced is a matter of personal whim.
It can be in pleat, flounce or godet.
The heat kept most of the new winter
outfits at home, so the meeting could scarcely
be a criterion of what Sydney will wear in
the next few months. Even Mrs. Tony Hor-
dern arrived in georgette. Her frock was
coffee-brown, her coat a smartly-caped affair
of beigey-pink georgette. H'er hat was tiny
and of beige and brown velour. Mrs. Oscar
Paul’s slim figure stood the test of one of
those frocks that are moulded to the figure
above the waistline and have a top of separate
hue and material—a black cloth skirt and a
magnolia satin top-piece went to this parti-
cular outfit; a small tip-tilted black hat and
a sweep of fair hair were other highlights.
Morna MacCormick’s green satin blouse and
brown hat showed up her clear complexion.
In the group with her and her Colin were his
mother, Lady Anderson, and his sisters,
Diana and Hermione, the one auburn-tressed,
the other blonde.
The opening of the Australian Art Exhi-
bition in the Macleod Gallery was one of
the most friendly corroborees of the week.
Every new arrival seemed to know every-
body already there, and presently the Lud
Mayor came and declared the Gallery and
Exhibition open. The only other speakers
were The Bulletin’s managing director
and Victor Mann, once of the National Gal-
lery, now in charge of this permanent exhi-
bition. Earl Beauchamp, who has taken a
great interest in the project, wrote saying
how sorry ho was not to be present. (He
is still in Maoriland.)
Julian Ashton, Sydney’s G.O.M. of art,
held almost a levee under his portrait of
“Hop.” B. E. Minns walked with Mrs.
Tom Rolin, even more handsome than in
the Longstaff portrait of her. Mrs. S. H.
Prior, the hostess of the afternoon, carried
red carnations in contrast to her black
chiffons; and Mrs. Ken Prior was nut-
brown from head to shoes. Mrs. Bertie
Kelly was handsome in smooth black plum-
age, and daughter Beatrice shimmered in
golds and browns. Jean Cheriton brought
Betty Moore, a Melbourne child with eyes
like brown pansies. Mrs. William Macleod
(after whose late husband the gallery is
named) was surrounded by Oswald Cheeke,
Patrick Bellew, tall nephew Dudley and
niece Eileen O’Brien, from Perth. Eileen
was dryad slim in brown, and she and Joyce
Godsall, from Queensland, who came with
the popular Pat and Ella O’Shea, were
among the admired young things. D. H.
Souter squired a pretty daughter, and so
did Jimmy Macdonald from the National
Gallery. Art-lover Howard Hinton was an
early arrival and purchaser; other early
purchasers were Oswald Cheeke and Bel-
gium’s Consul-General Segaert. Italy’s
Consul-General and Lute Drummond were
among the admirers before the Meldrum
group. Harry Julius and his small wife
(she’s a true Greuze type), Monty Grover
(whose latest idea is to apply his journalis-
tic brain to the Russian problem on the
spot) and the vivid Mrs. Monty; most of
the National Gallery trustees, headed by
knight John Sulman; Charley Lloyd Jones
and Mrs. Charley (she very blonde and
attractive in black marocains and a scrap
of a shiny black straw hat with two gar-
denias tucked in its side) ; Mrs. Harry
Dransfield and Mrs. Wheatley, from Jervis
Bay; Alfred and Ernest Wunderlich, with
Mrs. Eva Wunderlich between them; Mrs.
M. Cohen and Mrs. McKinley; the Jimmy
Bancks couple; Clarence Murphy, squiring
Doris Fitton and Florence Bennett; heads
of half the banking houses in Sydney, in-
cluding the Riddles and Mackenzie Lees
and L. J. McConnan; ex-Speaker Dan Levy
and former Ludmayor Jackson; that smart
trio Mrs. Schureck, Mrs. Davis and May
Sheehan; Judge Backhouse and Judge Coyle;
Mrs. Jessica Lee; Mrs. Harold Weigall, with
a group of country relations; the medical
Donald Frasers and daughter Isabel; Mrs.
W. MacMillan; Mrs. Bruce and Mrs. Phil
Prior; poets Mary Gilmore, Dora Wilcox
and Nellie Evans; editor of the Burns-
Philp magazine Dora Payter; Monty
Severn and the John Daileys; the “S. M.
H'erald’s” Paddy Nolan and Elliott Napier;
towering Jack Kerr and his doctor-wife;
Brig.-Gen. Lloyd; the Orient Co.’s Mr. Dow-
dell; W. G. Layton, Charlie Westmacott,
Will Ashton, J. R. Jackson, Rubery Bennett
—hundreds of people, artists, writers, busi-
ness and social well-knowns, poured in from
two o’clock till nearly five.
Quite the society thing to do during the
Bridge celebrations was to turn out for
the naval parade. As the companies of
sailors strode along, woman pressed her
Glengarry and tricorne at a more jaunty
angle, and worried business men felt cheered
Py a solid display of order in a disordered
world. The men were in their summer kit,
and in speekless white platoons, bayonets
gleaming, swords flashing, they marched past
the corner of Hyde Park, where almost in
a line with the Archibald Fountain Gov-
ernor-General Isaacs took the salute. The
business was an ordeal to Australia’s first
citizen, who has had more training in the
use of his head than his feet, and by the
time the last of the 900 men had passed the
G.-G. was obviously glad to slip into his
car.
Janet Thatcher’s party was one of the
successes of the week; it was young and
fluffy, with a sort of meringue and ice-cream
flavor. Janet is a pretty, blonde youngster,
very feminine in the way of her generation,
and the party was to say cheerio, as she
and her parents leave for England next
month. No. 11 Onslow Gardens housed the
affair, and the decorations call for a hosanna
all to themselves.
The Rose Bay Golf Club has been festive
with cocktail parties and dinner dances.
Probably Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s was the most
conversational dinner party, and Beau Bur-
dekin and Seppy Alison’s cocktail party the
most largely attended. The Earl and Count-
ess of Jersey were among the 200 guests
at the latter, and Mrs. George Vivers cele-
brated her return to town by being at both.
Organiser Nor ah Frost was proud of the
success of the Autumn Ball, which was to
provide an Easter egg for the Deaf and
Dumb and Blind Children. The big ball-
room at David Jones’s was comfortably
filled.
A feature of the Spencer # Bruntons’
party at Gladswood was the arrival of the
Earl and Countess of Jersey by launch; they
made an impressive entry, stepping from &
craft nearly large enough to have brought
them from England.
But the Bruntons had another party. In
business hours they are millers, and very
human bosses; and nobody was much sur-
prised when cards to view the Bridge-open-
ing pageantry from the Maloja were handed
round to the office staff. It was “the sort
of thing the Bruntons do.”
The Tony Horderns’ dance in honor of the
Earl and Countess of Jersey was one of the
big splashes of the week. The garden ball
room and the reception-rooms were massed
with flowers, and Mrs. Tony wore her wed-
ding frock of ivory satins, backless and very
narrow as to shoulder straps (for the wed-
ding it had been discreet with a demure cap*-
collar). The Countess wore pale blue satin.
The audience at Prince Edward’s lasi
Wednesday had just finished clapping their
hands off at sight of De Groot’s sword cleav-
ing the ribbon of contention when Authority
hustled along to withdraw it. Now the film
will be shown no more in this State. The
big picture of the night was “Man of May-
fair,” an English talkie, and Albert Cazabon
had arranged a programme of all-British
music to go with it. When the Irish airs
quivered into silence, the question arose in
many a mind. Why isn’t the harp heard more
often? The G.-G.’s lady was in the audience,
with Mrs. David Cohen and Captain Brae?
girdle.
Three days before Captain de Groot cut
the ribbon vice J. T. Lang, Mrs. Baass, who
was born in Redfern 96 years ago, had a
birthday party at her home in Mosman; and
to honor perhaps the oldest living Aus-
tralian-born, the band from George’s Heights
lined up on the lawn in Milton-avenue and
played through a lively programme. Anil
later Mrs. Baass was the liveliest of a party
of 40 who joined her at afternoon tea.
The North Shore has a new afternoon-tea
topic. “And yesterday, my dear,” you hear
them chirrup, “we were just 13 minutes
going from home to the Town Hall.” All
round there is surprise at the minutes the
Bridge has clipped off the journey to and
from the city, though whether minutes are
very important to most people just now is
quite another matter. The prospect of
long queues waiting to pay the toll has
faded out; at ordinary times there is no
queue at all.
And now, if you want to save heart-burning
when you are about to step forth in the new
skin-fitting evening frock, you’d better take
an inventory of the things that go beneath.
The chief item must be on the bias and cling
to the figure all the way down to below the
hips. There must be no pleats and no bulk,
and none of that pulled-firm-around-the-
waist-with-elastic outline. Your undie simply
must be moulded to the waist and to the
effulgence (if any) above. White, pale pink
and peach colorings are the most serviceable,
because they can be worn under any color,
and satin, ninon and triple voile are the
fabrics used in the best models. Above all.
avoid gathers that will hit you on the hip.
Shoulder-straps should be length without
breadth.
Queensland’s quantum:—
The Governor and Lady Goodwin returned from
Stanthorpe to be complimented by a farewell rally
in their honor staged by Girl Guides and Bov
Scouts. The Macartney lady, Dorothy Hawthorn, G.
Rees, F. R. Lloyd, 0. S. Snow (State Commissioner)
and Neth Hutchison (State Secretary) received the
vice-regal party.
His Ex. expressly asked Brisbane not to present
any gifts of value to himself or Lady Goodwin on
their departure, but the evidences of goodwill and
regret were manifold.
The combined National Council of Women and
Country Women’s Association bade Lady Goodwin
farewell in the City Hall. Her Ex., a great lover
of flowers, received nearly a hundred bouquets, and
when she left the hall a car heaped with blossomry
followed her. Madge Macdonald was with Lady
Goodwin, who wore amber and orange marietta.
Mrs. Cumbrae-Stewart and Mrs. Graham Mylne met
and escorted her to the platform. Meta Maclean
had written the farewell song, which was sung by
Mrs. R. G. Allen, and Barbara Sisley recited M.
Forrest’s poem of farewell to Lady Goodwin. Mrs.
Cumbrae-Stewart made the farewell address. A
miniature of Sir John, the work of Comrie Smith,
was presented to her Ex., and Lena Hammond.
Nancy Muirhead, Gladys Frost and R. J. Archibald
gave the music. On behalf of the Northern Division
of the C.W.A., Mrs. A. J. Crowther presented a
kid-bound copy of Mrs. Adam Black’s “North Queens-
land Pioneers,” embossed in silver with the associa-
tion’s badge, to Lady Goodwin.
Mavis Weatherlake announces her engagement to
William Raff, of Waralgai, Karara.
Ernest F. Lovell-Shore, son of the late Henry
Lovell-Shore, Devonshire, England, married Nan
Palmer, daughter of Mrs. J. W. Palmer, Greenslopes,
at St, Stephen’s, Coorparoo. The bride, who was
given away by her mother, was in white georgette
with a Brussels-lace veil and white bouquet; Mrs.
A. Clark was matron of honor in daffodil.
Murdoch Hugh Campbell married Jean Roberts,
daughter of the late R. R. Roberts, Augathella, in
the Valley Presbyterian church. The bride, who was
given away by her grandfather, A. J. Thom, was in
ivory silk crBpe and hand-’broidered veil. Miss G.
Roberts and Ena Blackburn ’maided in period
frocks of blue and haloes and posies of pink rosebuds.
Aboard the Cambria the Owen Joneses had a
moonlight trip for Noela Harris, who marries A. K.
Denmead shortly. White with Roumanian peasant
’broideries was worn by the guest of honor, and the
hostess was in saxe blue.
The Women Graduates of Queensland Uni. feted
Noela Harris, wlio is soon to be married, at thc-
Lyceum Club, Dorothy Denniss, president, acting
as hostess. The bride-elect was in brown patterned
in green.


Stomach Troubles
quickly relieved
by
COLOSEPTIC
Through faulty or incomplete
evacuation of the bowels, frag-
ments of food waste from diges-
tion become encrusted in the
walls of the intestine. Germs
breed in this waste matter and
enter the blood stream, result-
ing in dreaded self-poisoning
(autoxima) , caused through hid-
den and unsuspected constipa-
tion. These virulent poisons
circulating through the body
undermine the health, weaken
the vitality and directly sap the
strength. The life-giving organs
of Nature lose power to func-
tion properly. Autoxima leads
to constipation, headaches, in-
digestion, gas in the stomach
and bowels, catarrh, backache,
rheumatism, neuritis, eczema,
weakness of certain organs and
many other serious ailments.
Before the health of youth
can be restored this poisonous
matter must be driven out of
the system. And the safe,
sensible way to do this is to
drink COLOSEPTIC—the reli-
able internal cleanser. It first
loosens and dissolves, then
smoothly washes out the decay-
ing waste. It rids the body of
all poisons and blood impurities
through Nature’s four outlets—
the colon or large intestine the
kidneys the pores of the skin,
and the respiratory apparatus.
With the decaying crust re-
moved, the intestine scrupu-
lously clean and the circulatory
impurities driven from the
system pure wholesome blood
once again flows through your
veins. Help yourself to health.
Drink COLOSEPTIC and feel
your old vim and vigour re-
turning your pulse leaping to
the thrills of life. Note your
step becoming more sprightly,
and how your old aches, pains
and ailments are gently
smoothed away. Test the
powers of COLOSEPTIC by
sending I/- in stamps or postal
note to COLOSEPTIC CO. LTD.
(Dept. C. 4.), 10 O’Connell
Street, Newtown, N.S.W., for a
Special Demonstration Jar and
the valuable health booklet
“Autoxima.” COLOSEPTIC is
sold in regular full-sized jars at
all Chemists and stores.
\Y7HAT is this “Stability” we hear
” of as being so much desired and
so very desirable?
Does anyone really want “stability”?
This question is considered by “THE
BARRIER MINER” in last Saturday’s
issue. A leading article for Viscount
D’Abernon and others.
This “BARRIER MINER” news-
paper, published at Broken Hill twice
every day, is worth reading, and worth
using for advertisements, too.
Melbourne
Chatter
Polo didn’t come to its usual haunt in
town, Moonee Valley racecourse, this year,
for there was no inter-State tournament.
Teams from Melbourne Hunt Club and
Cooronwarrabul tried conclusions at Kent
Park, Ferntree Gully, and the M.H.C. four
were the victors. Several of our women
riders have formed teams at Frankston, regu-
lar practice being now directed by Cecil Le
Plastrier. The fair poloites include Mary
Bright, Norme Collins and Lorna Enabling.
A few years ago Lorna Enabling and some
other clever riders endeavored to form a team
of women players, but though they shaped
well (this Page saw a practice match or
two) the mallets were very soon put away.
At a recent race-meeting at Flemington
this Page espied the first pyjama or divided
skirt-gown worn publicly in the fierce radi-
ance of sunlight and in the view of thou-
sands. The wearer was perfectly oblivious
to the gaze of her neighbors and cared not
a rap what they thought or said. The one-
piece garment was beautifully cut and the
wearer was slight, so it was only at close
range that one noticed that what seemed at
first glance a black satin skirt was separated
into very widely-flared trousers, finished at
the ankles with finely-pleated frills all round.
The bodice was close-fitting and a largish
black straw hat simply trimmed with black
velvet topped the turnout.
On the eve of his departure for exchange
duty in England Lieut.-Commander Herbert
James Buchanan, R.A.N., took to wife
Florence, only daughter of the late Godfrey
Ellis, of Coolgardie (W.A.), and of Mrs.
Ellis, of St. Neots, South Yarra. The cere-
mony took place at Christ Church, South
Yarra, with after-rejoicings at St. Neots;
and next day the couple sailed in the
Orsova. The bride, who carried a sheaf of
white and gold tiger-lilies, was clad in ivory
satin with a veil and train of lovely old
lace and tulle. Her attendant, Sylvia Ward,
was in powder-blue chiffon with matching
blossoms wreathing her hair. Little Mar-
jorie Bisset, arrayed in pink organdie, green
velvet coat and flower-trimmed hat, scat-
tered rose petals in the path of the bridal
pair.
A knot-tying of last week was that of
Major W. D. Joynt, V.C.., and Edith Gar-
rett, who was a member of the nursing
staff of the Melbourne Hospital. The
bridegroom was supported by a couple of
pals who were with him in the Great War,
and the bride, who is a daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Garrett, of Mont Albert, was
attended by her sister, Mrs. J. S. Stence, of
Surrey Hills.
At a wedding in the city the bridesmaids
sported buttercup satin frocks and match-
ing felt hats and carried autumn-tinted
flowers. The bride was in ivory satin and
Limerick lace.
When Maisie, daughter of the Percy
Quicks, of Cobram, came to the city to be
wedded to Harry, younger son of Mr. and
Mrs. T. H. Roe, of Shepparton, Brussels-
lace mounted on flesh-pink tulle and floating
from a wreath of orange-buds to the ground
added charm to her parchment satin robe.
Her two ’maids were picturesque figures in
pink organdie muslin, with wreaths of roses.
They carried green baskets filled with more
roses. After the ceremony, at the Methodist
Church, Auburn, there were rejoicings at
Grosvenor, Toorak.
The engagement is announced of Betty,
only daughter of the Raynes Dicksons, of
Toorak, and Angus, son of the late Major
«<ibbs, F.R.G.S., and of Mrs. A. Gibbs, of
Kooyong.
Many Lyceumites sipped tea at the club
when Mrs. Jimmy Dyer chatted about the
women musicians and painters she had met
in Paris. Mrs. Dyer described Jeanne Ever-
ard, who conducts an orchestra entirely of
women players, as pretty and young
with shapely white arms and golden hair.
When conducting she uses no baton, and
wears a black taffeta gown much frilled of
skirt and tight fitting of bodice, with a white
lace berthe. The instrumentalists are simi-
larly attired.
The Chamber Music Club recognised the
fact that the bi-centenary of the birth of
Haydn occurs this month by including some
of the master’s works in its latest pro-
gramme. The L. A. B. Club went one better
by putting on a complete Haydn pro-
gramme. Cecily Kelly sang, and some of
the string trios and pianoforte pieces were
presented. Miss L. Dobson gave a sketch
of the composer’s life and work.
Mrs. Arnold Caddy, of Chandpara, Tylden,
and Mrs. G. H. Gibson, of Berinda, Dookie,
came from their respective Station homes
to meet their sister Mrs. J. S. Fraser on
her return from European travel. The two
ladies hostessed a billy-boiling at the Alex-
andra Club, many guests being invited. The
gathering had a background of magnificent
flowers. Mrs. Fraser topped her black
velvet gown with a smart model in felt
millinery.
The clothes worn by Evelyn Burnett and
Elsa Chirnside in “The Queen’s Husband,”
put on by the Gregan McMahon Players,
were a regular parade of the season’s
fashions. Mrs. Burnett, as Queen Martha,
sported a pale pink chiffon gown, fashioned
with a three-quarter coat and bordered with
brown fur. A petunia mauve georgette gown
was set off with ropes of pearls and a
coatee of amethyst satin that trailed a very
wide streamer from the left shoulder. The
new billiard-green hue was featured in a
winter suit that had edgings of fur and
chimed nicely with a brown felt hat. For
the wedding of the Princess Anne, Mrs.
Burnett’s confection was of pearl-shell pink
satin with a diaphanous Court train scintil-
lating in opalescent sequins. A glittering
coronet went with this turnout. Two ladies-
in-waiting, in brown satin, dresses, made an
effective toil to their sovereign’s magnificence.
Mrs. Chirnside, as Princess Anne, sported a
flounced evening frock of sky-blue taffeta;
and simple day dresses of persimmon red
and absinthe green crepe almonza respec-
tively. Her bridal array was of dead white
satin, with billows of tulle.
The latest threat to the sanctity of the
domestic hearth is the Soroptimists. A lady
from London, but born in S. Aus., has just
arrived in Melbourne to lay the foundations
of the movement. The Soroptimists are .our
old friends the Rotarians translated into
the feminine gender. Their motto is Look-
ing further” —looking further than the home
front, presumably. The Soroptimists have
lunch and dinner together, and throw
speeches at each other about disarmament
and world peace and such-like profound sub-
jects. They also work for better morals in
business, and busy themselves with charit-
able and civic matters. There are 7U
branches throughout the world, 30 being in
the Cold Land. With Ma a Sor.optimist and
Pa a Rotarian, it will become necessary for
little Willie and Mary to join kerbstone
clubs, and cook will become a superfluitanan.
At a woman’s luncheon in honor of a.visi-
tor from overseas, the place-cards consisted
of gum-leaves with a few gum-nuts attached.
The name of the guest was printed m gold
across the leaf. , , , , *
Lud Mayor Smith launched the show of
paintings by the late Robert Proctor, at the
Sedon Galleries. Mr. Proctor, who was a
Maorilander, was for many years senior
art master at the Working Mens. College
here. Among those at the private view were
the Hylton Dales, Mr. and Mrs. James
Campbell and Mrs. R. Proctor.
Among some supplementary “shorts” shown
at the private screening of “The Sentimental
Bloke” talkie by the Efftee Co. was a scene
in which violinist Hermia Barton, playing
her instrument, appears like a gigantic tele-
phone doll in hooped white satin gown and
powdered hair of the pompadour period,
while from the centre of her voluminous
skirts step forth more maidens similarly
clad and with fiddles to join in the melody
of the soloist, who slowly descends to normal
stature. Later Dorothy Hutchinson, a pupil
of Madame Saranova, does a solo dance witn
a ballet background.
The short coat, which is making appear-
ances in all kinds of fur and fancy velvets,
promises to have a tremendous run this
winter. Fashioned with a patent leather belt,
a similar hip coat made in cream or white
cloth made its appearance during the summer,
and was adopted by many smart dressers
as the suitable companion for a black or
navy skirt. The winter coats of the same
cut can be procured in any color and m
almost every form of winter suiting or fabric
with a similar colored skirt and liat to match.
In more elaborate materials, or in white fur,
these jackets are likely to be favorites for
evening wear.
This is Martin Peter Hansen, Director
of Education, who has just published a book,
“T hffug'hts
That Breathe,”
which covers
a very wide
range of sub-
jects. Mr.
Hansen was
born at Cros-
b i e, near
Heathcote, in
1874. From a
State school
he went to
Scotch Col-
lege and the
Teachers’ Col-
-1 e g e, and
graduated in
arts and law
at Melb. Uni.
He was suc-
cessively In-
spector of
Registc red
Schools, Chief
Inspector of Secondary Schools and Assist-
ant and Acting-Director of Education before
attaining his present rank, apd before that
again was for IX) years senior master at
Wesley College.
Knitted woollen sports suits and jumpers
for the winter are symphonies in variegated
stripes, spots and checks. There are three-
piece suits with self-colored coat and skirt,
and a jumper introducing several hues, or
there can be a plain skirt with a varied
jumper and scarf; maybe also a matching
beret. Very often a fancy patterned jacket
with a patent-leather belt tops a one-colored
skirt. Cardigans, usually very utilitarian
garments, have taken a frivolous turn and
fit tightly about the waist-line in cross-over
or in straight form.
The competition for the Crouch Memorial
Prize of the Ballarat Fine Art Gallery closed
with 57 entries. The honors went to an oil
by Charles Wheeler, of Melbourne.
The glory that surrounds Lewis Luxton,
of this city, who stroked the victorious Cam-
bridge crew, is shared by Mr. A. K. T. Sam-
bell’s son Bill, who was in the same boat.
He won the Bedford Scull singles last year.
At the Grammar School in Melbourne he
was for two years captain of the boats,
and rowed in the Head-of-the-River contest
with Lewis Luxton.
Mrs. Russell Coldham, lately returned
after some years’ residence in England, was
entertained at lunch by the president (Mrs.
Claude Couchman) and executive of the
A.W.N.L., of which she was formerly a vice-
president.
A passenger to Europe in the Orsova was
Olive Gillon, formerly of Tassie. She is
a hospital nurse, who is going abroad to
gain experience.
The W. H. Merrys, of Caulfield, set out
last week on a motoi’-trip to Brisbane, travel-
ling by way of New England.
Mr. and Mrs. Stuart Murray and daugh-
ter Mary are bound for London this week
Mr. Murray, who is a partner in John
Sanderson and Co., is on business bent
Mary, no doubt, will do some flying in the
Cold Country, and much motoring, for she
is an expert driver of cars and pilot of
’planes.
Booked to sail for Europe on April 5 are
Mrs. Purves Smith and her daughter
Jocelyn, who will be accompanied by
Audrey, daughter of the Ernest Poolmans, of
South Yarra. Farewells were said to Miss
Poolman at a bridge party hostessed by
Barbara Lyon.
Colonel and Mrs. Humphrey Clegg, who
lately returned to Melbourne after a lengthy
residence in London, have decided to remain
here and have made their home at Walsh-
street, South Yarra. Mrs. Clegg is a daugh-
ter of the Frank Bretts.
Dr. Frank L. Apperly has been granted
a _ year’s leave of absence from the Uni. He
will take the chair of pathology at the Medi-
cal College of Virginia (U.S.A.), and the
appointment, tentatively for a year, may
prove a permanency. He will leave in May.
Following in her mother’s footsteps is
Wendy Outhwaite, pictured here by Broo-
thorn. Her
mo ther is
widely known
through her
stories for
children, illus-
trated with
fanciful d e-
signs of fairy
folk and ani-
mals which
bear the sig-
nature of Ida
Rentoul Outh-
waite. Wendy,
who is just
17 and an ex-
pupil of St.
Gathe rine’s
School, has
decided talent
with her pen-
cil, too, and
the other day
was awarded
a Government Technical School scholar-
ship for drawing. This, which will cover
about three years, she will take out at the
Working Men’s College. Anne, her elder
sister, also has artistic talent.
The Henry Jowetts are off with their
family to make their home in England. They
were farewellcd at a bridge party at the
home of Mrs. C. M. Stodart, with whom
Mrs. G. Madden and Alison Moule were
associated as hostesses.
The Arts and Crafts Society has accepted
with regret the resignation of its secretary,
Mrs. Michael O’Connell, after four years of
service.
Leicester Cotton, a Geelongite, some of
whose cartoons have appeared in The Bul-
letin, has been appointed pictorial editor of
London “Daily Chronicle.”
Says South Aus.:—
Charity was never busier. The Mothers’ and
Babies’ Health Association stages its five-day pro-
gramme next week, and already ten industries have
nominated their Rose Queens for the Angorichina
Flower Festival. A multitude of dances, bridge
nights and other social events are projected to bring
in the money.
The Radiant Health Club conference is being held
in Adelaide, and about SO delegates from the other
States are staying at the Grosvenor.
At the Adelaide Race Club’s meeting at Victoria
Park, Miss Muriel Hall assisted her chairman father,
Mr. James Hall, to entertain at afternoon tea. She
wore a navy pintucked georgette frock, and a small
straw hat to match.
The Elder Conservatorium opera class has been
giving a revival of Mr. H. Winsloe Hall’s musical
play “Lochinvar” at the Theatre Royal. Mr. Hall
has discovered a wonderful silvery tenor among our
mounted troopers in James Currie. The period is
the seventeenth century, and Madame Delmar Hall
made the men magnificent in rich brocades.
Mrs. T. C. Walker opened the exhibition of Miss
Gladys Good’s oyersea paintings and afterwards
entertained a number of her friends at afternoon
tea at the Lyceum Club.
It is becoming obvious that some income for
living expenses ought to accompany the endowment
of a scholarship for instruction overseas, but bene-
factors don’t always think of--it. Thene is to be an
at-home next' week at Mrs. Lavington Bonython’s
home, St. Corantyn, East-terrace, to discuss means
of raising money for Miss Miriam Hyde, the winner
of the Elder scholarship, who is to leave in July
for England to study.
Mrs. W. A. Rollison, of Tusmore, gave a farewell
luncheon party for Mrs. John Verco, who leaves this
week for England. On Saturday night Dr. and Mrs.
Stanley Verco and Dr. and Mrs. John Verco enter-
tained 50 guests at the Oriental Hotel to dinner,
followed by a bridge party. The two medicoes and
their wives will travel together to the Old Country.
Prof. Brailsford Robertson has been honored, two
jjears after his early death, by a stained-glass window
in Adelaide University. The design, Science hold-
ing aloft the torch of Knowledge, is by Edith Lang-
ley, a local artis,t.
Westralia whispers:!—
Despite the heat, Perth’s youth and beauty donned
autumnal garb to see the 'cricketing Springboks.
The W.A.C.A. grounds were liberally sprinkled with
plaids, Dot Summerhayes, Jean Lang, Mrs. McLean
and heaps of others appearing hi varied tartan
effects. Mrs. Reith Ross was wrapped in black
and grey, with Margaret Draper’s maroon figured
marocain alongside; Doreen Ranford draped a king-
fisher-blue spotted scarf around the neck of her
wattle-yellow silks; Pat Lang flaunted tuberose wool
silk and Helen Woodhouse covered her pastel-blue
garment with a daffodil coatee.
The Repertory Club’s opening musicale went off
with that air of ease and efficiency usually noticed
when Mrs. D. D. Paton’s slim fingers handle the
reins. The artistie touch was seen in the gay
arrangement of the fairy-like daisy and dahlias.
Flora Bunning tickled the ivories to the tunes of
Scriabine, Brahms and Mendelssohn; Mrs. Duncan
lifted her voice in songs by Gabrielle Favre and
Brahms; Nancy Osborne wielded the fiddle bow to
Mozart, Toselli and Le Clair-Kreisler; and Thelma
Howard warbled ditties by Landon Ronald and
Finden.
To welcome Maimie Brown and Madge Rymill to
the West, the John Stoddarts and Percy Whites
staged a dance at the latter’s Fremantle residence.
Mrs. White’s autumn-tinted chiffons wafted welcomes
and Mrs. Stoddart encored them in classic : cut water-
lily satin. Maimie enhanced her fairness by appear-
ing in blue brocade tissue adorned with sapphire;
Madge Rymill gyrated in maize georgettes; Mrs.
G. B. Brown supplemented black satin with silver
whatnots; Mollie Learmonth trod a measure in
orange floral chiffon; Mrs. Mervyn Hobbs combined
diamente with startling royal-blue satin, and Mrs.
Temperley cascaded with white lace.
Baby Week Appeal is running a race with Wool
Week, but as the babies will be lulled to rest a
month before the woollies start baa-ing, there need
be no confusion. Nevertheless, pinpricking babies’
cards and vote-taking for wool queens are being
carried on simultaneously. The Repertory Club is
poking a finger into both pies by airing a pair of
twins in the Wodehouse-lan Hay farce “Baa, Baa,
Black Sheep.”
Dalgety’s manager, Bobby Cameron, and his wife,
are off to London for six months. Separately and
collectively they are being feted and farewelled
prior to their departure.
Through Speck spectacles:—
At the Doncaster meeting at Elwick chairman and
Mrs. Lyons tea-ed numerous guests, Mrs. Lyons wear-
ing a dark navy crSpe suit and hat. Dressing was
still fairly summery, though some of the autumnal
turnouts were distinctive and smart.
Our latest State member, Dr. A. N. Lewis,
married a few years ago Amy, daughter of Mrs.
Thos. Hungerford, formerly of Sydney, and the young
couple are very active in both social and civic
circles in South Hobart.
There have been many farewell parties in Launces-
ton for pretty and popular Josephine Wilks, who is
to be married shortly. Among the hostesses were
Mrs. Doolan and her sister, Betty Cuff, Mrs. Frank
Richardson, Mrs. W. R. Menzies, Mrs. Monds and
daughter Winnie.
Mrs. George Nares (formerly Minna Walch) writes
that she is coming back on a visit to her home
town, after several years in the Cold Country.
Mrs. Henry Foster, of Merton, Campbell Town, and
her two girls are off to the Big Smoke this month
for yet apother visit. They sailed in the Orsova.
Mrs. Tom Giblin’s mother and sister, Mrs,. Rymill
and Miss Kathleen Rymill, have gone back 'to Adel-
aide after their summer visit to the Speck.
Mrs. Dan Archer has taken Dr. Shugg’s former
house in King-street, Sandy Bay, and leaves her
old home, Longford Hall, Longford, to her stepson
and his bride, the Lance Archers.
Major and Mrs. Beeching, with their son and
daughter, are seeking fresh climes after trying con-
clusions with farming on Maria Island. They sailed
for Africa in the Ceramic.
Dick Radcliffe, second son of the C. R. Rad-
cliffes, Sandy Bay, left in the Largs Bay to take
up work at Vickers’, Lancashire. In him Hobart
girls lose one of their most attractive partners, and
the University Dramatic Club its star juvenile lead.


Si
a
iSifO.
rtjil'm
•Or
PiMTSHFieta
Via
AUCKLAND
N.Z.
SUVA and HONOLULU to
Vancouver. . . This is the attrac-
live trans-Pacific route of British
vessels of the C-A Line.
Each of these ports has its indi-
vidual charm—all offer the
traveller unlimited possibilities
for enjoyment.
For further particulars apply
Union S. S. Co., Ltd.
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street. Melbourne.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
31
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
• I
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
RADIC ES BATTERIES
o< TORCH REFILLS '
J\ jpu> v&efler--
h
mm
m
m
Gets In and
Gets Under
Into the very heart of
each bearing and wher-
ever lubrication is vitally
necessary.
Friction is costly in any
motor vehicle. Excessive
friction is avoided by
the use of ALEMITE
Lubricant, forced through the Alemite fittings into
the vital parts by the ALEMITE System of Lubrication
which “cleans as it lubricates.”
Insist on yours cars and lorries being “ALEMITED ”
at least every 500 miles.
ALEMITE CORPORATION * Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMST-Chtcago
FuU. particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. Vl'.
Or from the following Representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd Brisbane
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. MACHIN &CO (Pty),Ltd. . . 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
K-AUST-5
LUBRICANTS & SYSTEMS
LUBRICATION
The Scorpion.
“BARNABY’S”
ACCOUNT OF TEE CLIMAX OF A PROSPECTING
EXPEDITION IN THE FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
MELDRUM cursed. It was las safety-
valve. He cursed the heat, the gold
they had found, the flies, his sore
heel, Colister’s cowardice, the carriers who
had deserted, tlie-turgid river, the Federated
Malay States and every Rajalv, Dyak. Malay
and native therein —and Gleeson. Especially
Gleeson. And Gleeson, removing a tattered
and stained pith helmet, to mop a steaming
bald pate, grinned at him. ...
That was Gleeson’s most irritating char-
acteristic—his consistent cheerfulness. His
habit of losing anything not tied to his per-
son was bad enough. He. had at various
stages of the journey lost his knife, liis pipe,
one of his revolvers, his spare shirt, his
watch—in fact, practically the whole of his
portable property —but he had never lost his
temper. That was the inhuman part of the
man, his persistent, feeble and asinine humor
in the face of incredible difficulty and dis-
tress. Meld rum, tried almost beyond endur-
ance himself, was not to know that this was
Gleeson’s only psychological barrier between
himself and complete nervous and physical
prostration. So he cursed Gleeson from
Alpha to Omega for losing their one remain-
ing tin mug. He wearily lifted ,his pack to
his blistered shoulders, and spat. with dry
mouth at a scorpion, which arched its venom-
ous tail and scuttled into the undergrowth.
“Gleeson,” he growled, “you’ve lost the
pannikin, so you can plug the holes in your
topee and dip us a mouthful out of that.”
He nodded at the sullen river which flowed
round a point'of the small clearing in which
they had taken their midday rest.
The third surviving member of the party,
Colister, rose from his recumbent position
in the shade, and, walking over to where
Meldrum stood, sank slowly, on to a fallen,
rotting tree-trunk, and buried. his face in
his hands. “How much longer?” he groaned
—“how much longer?”
A diversion came at the right instant. A
movement on Colister’s log attracted Mel-
drum’s attention. A seven-inch centipede
was crawling towards the unsuspecting pros-
pector.
“’Ware centipede, Colister!” lie. said.
.Colister raised his head from his hands,
saw the repulsive insect, and with a stifled
cry leapt to liis feet. His face was ashen,
and beads of sweat dewed his forehead. He
stared with distended eyes for a moment;
then, drawing his revolver, ho brought the
butt down upon the centipede, following
blow with blow.
“One nervous wreck and one careless
clown,” said Meldrum. “When I come back
I’ll bring men with me.”
“You can have .it on your own for me,'
said Gleeson cheerfully. “You can buy me
out of my share of the claim, or you can give
me some dough in advance for royalties —
you can do what you like. But if ever you
find me further away from Pitt-street than
Randwick racecourse you can have my share
of the gold for nothing. Are you thinking of
coming back. Golister?” lie asked.
Colister, his khaki shirt limp and wet from
the river, shuddered. His hands were shak-
ing and his eyes were yellow where they
should have been white.
“Give me some quinine, Meldrum, lie
begged “I need it more t-han you two do.
Look, you brought me here—give me some
quinine.”
Meldrum shook his head. ‘.lt s not
malaria that’s wrong with you, Colister,” he
answered; “it’s nerves. You’ve gone to the
pack, man ! Pull yourself together —<ve 11
strike canoes any day now.”
“Give me some quinine, I tell you,” Colis-
ter barked, and he, fumbled at his emp.ty
holster. . Gleeson, standing behind him, picked
up the pistol and waggled it derisively.
Meldrum frowned, , liis jaw
very much in evidence. “Colister,” he
said slowly, “there’s ten grains per man
per day for the next three days. If we
don’t strike a settlement, by then —and I’m
tipping we will—we’ll all take the knock:
so let’s step it out. Grab your gear.”
Gleeson had already assembled their
scanty camp equipment, and after ejecting
the shells from Colister’s Smith and Wesson
he handed it back.
“Anyway, we’ve struck the river,” said
Gleeson, “so we know where we are. Any-
body seen my tobacco? It’s gone.”
“Curse you and your tobacco,” growled
Meldrum. “Come on, Colister; get your
boots on.”
Colister clumsily began pulling on his
calf-high mosquito boots, so designed that
with trousers tucked inside they formed an
impenetrable barrier to the malaria-carrying,
ankle-biting anopheles. He was thrusting
his foot into one when Meldrum seized him
roughly by the shoulders and shook him.
“How many times have I told you to empty
your boots before putting them on ?” he said.
“You’ll strike more than you bargain for
one of these fine days.” He grabbed Colis-
ter’s other boot, and, shaking it, tipped out
the “creepers” and “crawlers” which had
found shelter therein from the noonday’s heat.
Colister watched Meldrum sulkily as he
shouldered the major portion of the equip-
ment, and handed the rest to Gleeson. Col-
ister refused to see in this the fatalistic
acceptance of the heavier load by the stronger
man, but chose to take it as a personal slight.
“Nervous wreck, eh!” he muttered to him-
self, as he stumbled over the track forced
through the clinging vines and creepers' by
Meldrum —“nervous wreck ! He knows it’s
fever, damn him! He’s killing me, that’s
what he’s doing—killing me so's he ; can
grab my gold. That’s why he carries most
himself —maps, registration papers, tucker,
quinine—-so I can’t get to ’em.”.
He glowered malevolently at Meldrum’s
broad back, thinking in retrospect of the
disasters which had overtaken them. The
outward trip had been fairly straightfor-
ward, but from the moment they had located
the gold, pegged the claim, and started on
this southward journey, trouble and mis-
fortune had been their constant companions.
They had lost most of their supplies at a
flooded crossing. It wasn’t his, Colister’s,
fault that he had left the native carriers to
flounder leaderless at a moment of crisis. Il'e
didn’t like water, and wasn’t much of a
swimmer, and there was always the danger
of crocodiles and things. Besides, a man
had to look after himself first, hadn’t he!
Meldrum should have bossed the job him-
self. And then Gleeson had lost the com-
pass, and for days they were hopelessly
bushed in the sludgy, steamy jungle, unable
to see any sufficient expanse of starlit sky
at night because of the thick, matted green-
ery overhead. They were thus forced to
travel by sun through the heat of the day.
That wasn’t his fault, was it? Nor was
it his fault that they had stumbled into a
party of head-hunters, and their carriers
had deserted them. In the running fight that
followed, and in which Meldrum’s mate,
Duncan, had been killed, Colister had been
too busy forging ahead to worry about actual
fighting. He wasn’t much of a shot, any-
way, and the fierce yells of the Dyaks and
their hideously-painted faces upset his fever
terribly. Of course, it was fever! Meldrum
had no right to say he was yellow. He d
get even with him for that. Colister knew
ids nerves were all right—wasn't_ he the
champion tennis-player of his district?
' What was that? They had just crossed
a sunlit clearing, and were now entering the
miasmic gloom on the other side. There!- —
with most of its long mottled body and its
spade-like head hanging almost motionless
from a bough, waiting to drop upon and
crush iu its folds the first diving thing which
passed beneath it. A python! Colister yelled
his hardest, and stood in his tracks, shiver-
ing from head to foot. “There —look!” he
screamed. “Python—shoot it, Meldrum !
Shoot it!”
Meldrum. spat out a contemptuous epithet
at him, whilst Gleeson prodded him in the
back. , • ... .
“Go on, you fool," he grumbled, “it s only a
creeper.- ■ Here! Let me go first. If you
get frightened, just hold nurse’s hand!”
All the late afternoon they followed the
river’s’winding course. Once Meldrum pointed
silently ’to ' a fish-trap close in under the
bank. It was decrepit, and obviously had
not been used for. months, but it heartened
the weary and "half-starved . party to know
that they were nearing friendly humans.
Each yard that they trudged, each growled
command by Meldrum, each inane jest by
Gleeson, fed, nevertheless, the maggot which .
swelled and gnawed- in Colister's brain. In
Sydney he was a better man than most of
them, wasn’t he? And who'was Meldrum.,
anyway? ■’ An illiterate fossicker! As for
Gle'esoii, lie was little better than a bar-
room tout? Neither of them had his intel-
lect or imagination. That was it! They,
had no imagination. The horrors, dangers
and fatigues of : this journey meant nothing
to their animal natures. Why, then, should
they have as much quinine as lie? He
needed if most! It was his-by right. The
survival of the fittest meant the survival of
the keenest intelligence, didn’t it? Well,
then, he was. justified in taking all. quinine
and food—it was his duty to himself and
humanity to take it! He’d do it, somehow;
he’d do it! Kill and take!
They camped that night by. a clump of
pandanus palms, and, as they bolted their
ration of boiled rice,, Meldrum told them that
he recognised the bend in the river that lay
before them, and that they were about two
days’ easy march from where they could
secure canoes and food enabling them to com-
plete tlieir journey in comfort.
Colister wrapped himself loosely in his
mosquito netting,, swallowed , his _ dose of
quinine and listened quietly until snores
from the other two told him they were both
asleep. 'Should he do it now? Fiijpt of all,
cartridges. By rolling over he found him-
self within arm’s reach of Gleeson’s cartridge-
belt. He extracted four shells-—two each
would be enough—and then rolled back. With
infinite.care to prevent the betraying “click”
he loaded his gun, and thrust it inside his
shirt, under the armpit. No., he wouldn’t
do it now. H'e would wait until to-morrow,
until by judicious questions lie could ascer-
tain from' Meldrum that they were definitely
on the right track. He’d shoot them both
in the back. then, take ore samples, maps,
tucker and quinine, and leave the bodies to
the bull-ants.
All night he slept by fits and starts, waking
now to chuckle as he thought of the heavy
leaden slugs tearing through Meldrum’s
back; now quaking hideously as mysterious
rustlings round about him told of the
prowlers of the night.
Dawn found him white and shaking,
scarcely able to bold the billy of watered
coffee-grounds which Gleeson prepared. Mel-
drum looked at him, and gave him another
stiff dose of quinine screwed up in a cigarette-
paper. , .
“I’ll go short to-night,” he growled, in
answer to Gleeson’s stare of surprise.
Colister shook again, this time with inward
suppressed laughter. Gleeson go short to-
night, would he? Ho! ho! Yes, indeed!
Short, short, very short! Colister would
have the quinine. Colister would have the
maps, and the gold; Meldrum and Gleeson
could have each other’s carcases. He’d show
them who was the best man of the three!
“Has anybody seen my nailbrush?” asked
Gleeson.
“Nailbrush! Where the blazes do you
think you are?” said Meldrum —“the Hotel
Australia or something? Get a move on; we
don’t want to be here all day.”
“I scrubbed the billy with it last night,”
grumbled Gleeson cheerfully; then paused as
he noticed the gaps in his cartridge belt.
Colister looked at him under lowered lids.
Now for the gamble!
Gleeson opened his mouth, and Colister's
heart stood still. But the other turned away,
and began furtively searching about the foot
of the palms, and Colister’s pulse returned
to normal, although he was still shaky.
He pulled his boots towards him. and
chuckled to himself. That was a clever
move on his part! There was imagination
for you ! Meldrum was too shrewd; it would
not have done to have taken shells from Mel-
drum’s belt, but he had gambled on Gleeson
being too afraid to admit that he had lost
precious ammunition —and he had won his
bet! Well. Gleeson would get his cartridges
back in a way he little expected.
Colister buckled one boot, and thrust his
foot into the other. He shrieked and goggled
hideously as the sole of his foot contacted
with sharp spikes.
“Scorpion!”
He felt it move as he stiffened his leg.
Meldrum and Gleeson turned towards him.
mouths agape with surprise. Colister was
seated on the ground, his back to the tree,
one foot raised, his hands to his boot.
Meld rum’s mouth tightened as he compre-
hended. “Don’t move, Colister,” lie shouted.
But Colister did not hear him.
In his mind he saw' the dirty-yellow ringed
body, the spiked back, the ugly, vicious head,
the venomous; whip-like, double-pronged tail,
already arched to strike. One false move-
ment would be fatal. Should he try gently
to draw the boot from his foot, or ? He
chose the alternative. He leapt to his feet,
and forced his foot down into the boot with
all his weight behind it, in an attempt in-
stantly to crush the death-dealer before it
could strike.
His face was flushed, the. veins at his neck
swelled visibly. He gave vent to an awful
yell as the pointed spines bit into his foot;
then he fell flat on his face.
Meldrum knelt by the fallen body, and
placed his hands inside the shirt. He looked
up at Gleeson, and explained.
“He’s a goner,” he muttered —“dead as a
doornail.”
Gleeson wiped his head; his heart was
sick, and he felt a curious buzzing in the
brain.
“Poor devil!” he quavered. “I wish we’d
never seen the country, none of us. Damn
the gold! To go like that—scorpion-bitten
—within a few miles of safety!”
“It wasn’t all scorpion that killed him.”
answered Meldrum. “It was mostly blue-
funk and the rotten heart of the man. He
was yellow right through. Anyway, we’ll get
the . beast. , Pull his boot off, Gleeson—easy
does it!”
He waited with upraised gun-butt.
Gleeson gingerly withdrew the boot from
the dead man’s foot, raised it at arm’s length
and shook it.
Meldrum leaned forward.
Out fell Gleeson’s nailbrush!
Gleeson sat back on his heels, and laughed,
each following peal of laughter rising on a
higher note of hysteria. He was still laugh-
ing, but weaklv and fitfully, two days later
when Meldrum' tied hfm loosely but securely
in a canoe, and wdth bullied and hazed
native paddlers rushed him down the river.


•v
PPP
■S'A
'5 1 « ’ , *
Y'Y YY ■" •• ; Y",Y : '' Y •' ‘ .. Y
YY'YpY-YY ' - • i :: . Y"Yvv'V:R:'Y Y «Y.Y Yv,
‘i'•''• ; • ri'Ayj” i’v Y ; . : YY Y. vYY Y
Y
ikt>4£.l
YYYY:
I .
YTwY v !
fi
{lf H■ ’ ; f.—
yßr. «:
i *? JU 6
‘r'SHißiii
uyScaWwrf.
f .5 ,
M
.1 .1
m
'[ If IIHTII: r •: :
l~‘ . 'Y•••'<• -'I ■:•••:•• ; ■: ! f Y YYf £,?. f, • SU.v j
.f .: •-£ •’• U •- ; •?': Y.i f ;YY. . :?Y. : Y
Yl- J :- V
SXw**
i ::A
;llum‘S
ScofeCOKisb?
£bi riM-;r .-
•• • ■■s. ■:\ ■
>.;. "!'./■'• '-v .v f r . « (fioopdeo LOfudopj.
S@£Ess*lfc.'-■YY vvY
WM&SL
M
• • ■'"•-■'•
aw
'Y'/.Y
&v>fcs
Sr^i
4
XvV
V;
111
•V'i*
y - •:*•>.
VA i
V/.Y.vY
Yiiv •. •
*• *v:y#
•e*;- >. *
L* • • '
; • ■.• Y
WM. > M
*JU-
ii ■
Bridging the Years
Since I 807
You can only open a bridge once, but
you can open McCallum’s Whisky as
often as you like—and like it as often
as you open it.
The reputation of McCallum’s for un-
varying quality and wholesomeness has
bridged the years since I 807 and each
succeeding year sees it more firmly
established in the public estimation.
(I) c CaLlum’s
tftmAdim
Scots COhisky
Distributors for the House of McCallum:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
BARTLAMS, LTD., Townsville.
NORTHERN AUSTRALIAN BREWERIES, LTD., Cairns.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia's Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GJP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/«
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/*
vf
d
0°
,iK * l '
Ml
\c<>V'
0 VO ,<■
..•• v^V^'V
C*'
•\ «&<<#*•
*' • Vr.„v*°


h
I
H
B|r
*s^
\k.
'n a
HP U
<>
f
VN
/ f
• \
\ v
i a
a
f
OOHEY
ti
TOO H
SVONCr AOSTR
i
"Mm
-
OOHC-Yf
.
_
Ok
/MEW LIGUT LAGER
IN TAE BOTTLE VITA THE YELLOW LABEL
