

t's a winner
■ 1 M
in traffic
/ \
' JL A
\(
f mm
\ \
to
> \ i
<r>
7^
t %, ,:^
sT
y
’IT S A WINNER IN TRAFFIC"
"ON THE LONG PULLS, TOO"
The cool, smooth power of Union White
Flash is refreshing. Whether speeding
or touring or idling, you'll find this super
fuel the most loyal travel companion
you've ever known. More and more
modern motorists are buying it—for the
extra qualities ' that master scientists
have built into it.
U N
WHITE t LASH
è
LSO ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL.
The Bulletin
jftluit duL 8
Vol. 53. - No. 2711.
Wednesday, January 27, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


o uK Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
with full terms and particulars post
free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
i ml
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
/6pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System, of Writing eu
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. 3
My Name
My Address
S.B. 331
UYSAGHT?
o
0
R
AU STRALI A.
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
<3M
Lss
Insure
Your Child Healthy Skin
through Life
by daily use of
Cuticura Soap
with
Cuticura Ointment
as required.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Sample each free.
Address : R. Towns & Co., Sydlney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established, 1854 •
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
In business to-day it is essential to
keep moving forward—pushing ideas
and using every legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sales in Victoria have not
reached the high level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By
this means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence in our
publication, which for three generations
has been the Business Builder that dis-
criminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
CM new Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and 'up-to-the-minute”
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the "N.Z. Referee”
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM 19 WOMEM
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HJNCHCLIE* JS,
2 HUNTER
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men!
Greater Brisbane Contains
One* third of Queensland’s
Entire Population .
♦ ♦ ♦
In Greater Brisbane
(£he Brisbane (Knnrier*
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 8 °/o
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary .
* # *
Ton can more 0/ #Aese interest*
ing facts regarding the Queensland
MarTcet, from :
3Tfie Brisbane Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREBT.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elisabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3806.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 1,97
Fleet-street.
Sp&cia/ Announcement
to National Advertisers
Che mercury
Tasmania’s National Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
19 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,’’ 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Iteading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use tlve telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency. Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-05 Collins Street, Melbounie.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE - * - - 3d.
It deals with every subject o!
interest to women.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
“Two Nations”
When Disraeli coined his phrase about
England’s “two nations” he meant the very
poor and the very rich. Yet the gap has
always been wider between the new poor,
whom England has had in every age, and
the lower middle class. Aristocrats, and
workers whose only capital is their health
and brawn, have many things in common
—love of the open air, sport and gambling;
contempt for caution and the bourgeois
virtues generally; loyalty to stricken mem-
bers of their class; a certain sympathy
with outcasts of all classes. The tremen-
dous difference, not only in culture and
manners, but in the fundamentals of human-
ity, between England’s upper and lower
middle classes is strikingly emphasised in
two new novels. John Galsworthy’s Maid
in Waiting (Heinemann; Robertson and
Mullens; 7s. 6d.) is about friends of our
old friends the Forsytes. The Charwells
(pronounced, and mostly written, Cherrell)
have no money but they go to the best
schools, become archbishops, judges and
generals, work hard, have a strong sense
of public duty and know the right people.
When the story begins Captain Hubert
Cherrell, son of the general, is in a hole.
After the war he was given a year’s sick
leave, and joined the Bolivian Expedition
of Professor Hallorsen, an American. He
was left at a base camp in charge of some
half-caste muleteers, had one of them
flogged for ill-treating a mule, was attacked
and shot, his attacker dead. The professor
-described the incident in his book about
the expedition, and a question was asked
in Parliament.
Such is the situation that confronts Eliza-
beth (“Dinny”), Hubert’s devoted sister, at
the age of 24—Dinny, who was “slight
and rather tall and had hair the color of
chestnuts, an imperfect nose, a Botticel-
lian mouth, and eyes cornflower blue and
widely set.” She makes up her mind to
save Hubert’s career—he is a singularly
ineffectual battler himself—by pulling
strings, and the novel largely concerns her
activities. Hallorsen falls in love with her
and joins in the campaign. Her Uncle
Hilary, vicar of a London parish, was at
Harrow with Snubby Bantham (now Lord
Saxenden, and “important”), and she calls
at the vicarage for an introduction. The
vicar is at a police court looking after the
interests of a girl charged with accosting,
but he supplies the introduction when he
gets home. The Bolivian Government,
spurred on by the papers, starts pressing
for Hubert’s extradition on a charge of
murder. Lord Saxenden gives Dinny a
letter to Bobbie, who is the power behind
Walter, the Home Secretary, and she meets
with a setback:—
“What did Wal—the Home .Secretary say?”
“Nothing. He’d seen Snubby; he * doesn’t like
Snubby, so he’s issued the order to Bow-street.”
“Oh! Does that mean there will be a warrant?”
Bobbie Ferrar nodded, examining his nails.
Hubert is committed to prison to await
surrender to Bolivia, but in the end Dinny
gets round the Home Secretary and all is
well.
A feature of this book is the essential
goodness and charity of everybody in it.
There is plenty of Galsworthian propa-
ganda—against cruelty to man or beast,
against war, and, paradoxically enough, in
favor of soldiering. The general says bit-
terly when his son is committed:—
I was wondering where that magistrate would be
if boys like Hubert hadn’t gone off before their
time. I was wondering why we’ve chosen lives
that have landed me on the verge of bankruptcy,
and Hubert in this mess, when we might have been
comfortable in the City or the Law.
But, above all, the propaganda is in favor
of England’s upper middle class; antidote
to the bane of works like “Vile Bodies.”
Here are the people, says the author in
effect, who live in West End a.nd country
houses; those drawn by the Waughs, Hux-
leys, Kennedys and other youngsters are
libels on the flower of England.
Now turn to Norah Hoult’s Apartments
To Let (Heinemann; 7s. 6d.). Drakesferry-
road, where Mrs. Peabody lets rooms, is
only just over the river from South Square,
but its inhabitants are as different from
Fleur and Michael, Dinny and Hubert,
General Cherrell and Lady Mont as if they
belonged to another planet. The principal
characters are Lena, who is 35 and living
apart from her husband on £3 a week;
Josephine, who has £2 a week and suffers
from delusions of persecution; Leonard, a
young man who works in an architect’s
office; Mr. Hobson, an elderly shopwalker,
and Mrs. Peabody, the landlady. The
younger women, to
quote Mrs. Pea-
body, are “man-
mad.” Lena picks
men up in the
streets, and is only
prevented from
bringing them to her room by the vigilance
of Mrs. Peabody; Josephine is haunted by
erotic imaginings; Elizabeth, Leonard’s girl,
tries to seduce him. How different from the
frigid maidens on the other side of the
Thames! The Cherrells stick together.
(“As some Highland clan of old, without
summons issued, assembled, when one of
its number was threatened, so were
Hubert’s relatives collected in the police
court Coming in with his lawyer he
gave them a clansman’s smile.”) How dif-
ferent from Mrs. Peabody’s lone wolves!
Lena hates her sister and despises her hus-
band; Josephine lives in London to escape
her family, who are ashamed of her; Leon-
ard appears to be as free of family ties
as Mr. Hobson. The master passion of
Mrs. Peabody and her relations is malice.
Nothing causes them such pure joy, noth-
ing draws the family together in such an
exultant atmosphere of understanding affec-
tion, as the ruin of an acquaintance. After
Hilary Cherrell gets his sinful parishioner
off, Dinny goes with her in a ’bus to South
Square to ask for a reference from Fleur.
“Had things been going very badly ?”
“Shockin’. Me and my sister make just enough
when we’re in full work. But she was ill five
weeks, and on the top of that I lost my purse
one day, with thirty bob in it. That wasn’t my
fault anyway,’’
“Wretched luck.”
“Rotten! If I’d been a reel one d’you think
they’d have spotted me ? It was just my being green.
I bet girls in high life have no trouble that way
when they’re hard up.’’
“Well,” said Dinny, “I suppose there are girls
not above helping out their incomes in all sorts
of ways. All the same I think that kind of thing
ought only to go with affection ; but I expect I’m
old-fashioned.’’
Compare the attitude of Bert, Mrs. Pea-
body’s unemployed son, and his wife Rosie
towards their lodger. He arrives with his
glorious news at Drakesferry-road:—
“Our beautiful lodger has been and done herself
proper now.”
“What!” said Mrs. Peabody; the dignified reserve
of her face breaking up into an expression of de-
lighted expectancy. “Mrs. Broome as she calls
herself ?”
“As she calls herself. That’s right. Well, you
know she didn’t never come home Tuesday night
last. I told you.”
Mrs. Peabody nodded.
“Well, it’s all come out now. She’s properly
done now. It’s all in the paper. In the ‘Peckham
Green Times.’ She was arrested, she was.... Lord!
excuse me, but you should have seen her face when
l up and spoke to her.”
“You’ve seen her?”
“You bet your sweet life. It was a fair treat
the way she done herself without knowing. You
see I spent tuppence on the paper—you catch it
if they see you cutting anything out at the
Library, and it wasn’t worth tire risk —I bought the
paper and when I took it home and showed Rosie
what do you think she did ? Cut it out and pinned
it in the hall, so that everyone going up and down-
stairs could see.”
As Mrs. Peabody listens she murmurs
pleasurably, “Lower than the animals!
Lower than the animals!” regrets that she
was not there to enjoy the indignities put
on the sinner, and that a fine was imposed
instead of gaol.
It can be assumed that the pictures of
both novelists are accurate. Galsworthy’s
qualifications are known, and he is one
of the famous writers who have testified
to the actuality of Miss Hoult’s work.
Anyhow, they aren’t pioneers. Gissing was
writing of people like Mrs. Peabody and
her lodgers in the ’eighties, and the novels
of the Victorian era, are full of families
like the Cherrells. The abiding marvel is
that the two sections should be close neigh-
bors, and share the same language and
traditions.
RED PAGE.
Aftermath of Revolution
H. Hcsse!l Tiltman, author of The Terror
in Europe (Jarrolds; Robertson and Mul-
lens; 285.), is an opponent of tyranny in
all its forms. He smites, with equal fury,
the Red Terror in the U.S.S.R., the Black
Terror in Italy, the White Terror in Hun-
gary and kindred manifestations in Poland,
Jugo-Slavia and elsewhere. But his very
passion for liberty (Lenin’s "bourgeois
dream”; Mussolini’s “festering corpse”)
tells against him as a witness. He allows
no merits to the other side. Whatever
Bolshevism may have been in its origins it
has lasted since 1917; and, after nearly nine
years, Mussolini seems to be stronger than
ever in Italy. Such systems must have
points in their favor. The men in charge
can’t be paranoics inspired by a desire to
cause suffering for suffering’s sake. Mr.
Tiltman’s handling of the long-drawn-out
struggle between Stalin and Trotsky is
typical of his method.
All non-Communist or dissenting parties have
been declared illegal associations. Even so power-
ful a Communist as Trotsky, the architect of the
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING!’—The Conscience of Business.
“THE SENIOR STORE
ATTMT
jk i
m
i
ê
ë
SPECIAL VALUE IN
QUALITY TRAVEL GOODS
14/6 Attache Cases 12/9
Solid leather Attache Cases. Made from genuine
cowhide, i Two strong locks. Metal frame round
body of case. Buy now and save more!
Sizes, inches ...... 14 !6 18 20
Prices ' 14/6 16/6 19/- 21/-
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Prices 12/9 14/- 16/6 18/6
25/- Pure Wool Rugs 19/6
Pure Wool Travelling Rugs. . These are a quality
which assures service. In ; many serviceable de'-‘
signs. ■ Featuring fringed ends. Size, 60 x 72.
Price 25/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 19/6
29/6
37/6 Suit Cases
Solid leather Suit Cases. Made from genuine cow-
hide. Featuring 2 sliding nozzle locks. Eight
capped corners. Beautifully lined.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28
Prices 37/6 42/- 45/- 48/6 52/6
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Prices 29/6 32/6 35/- 38/6 42/-
60/- Cabin Trunks 50/-
Strong Fibre Cabin Trunks. Wooden bands round
same, two good-quality locks, leather corners;
nicely lined throughout; fitted with lift-out tray.
Sizes, inches 30 33 36
Prices 60/- 63/- 70/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices 50/- 55/- 60/-
(DeptGround Floor, George Street.)
Effortless Gleaning at Lowest Cost!
£l6/16/- “Eureka” Model 10 Cleaners
Selling at £9191-
The entire New Zealand stock of the Model 10
Eureka Cleaners purchased! And now an amazing
offer.... which we believe to be the lowest price ever
asked for comparable quality and performance.
At International Expositions world experts have
awarded the highest awards attainable to the Eureka
because of its—(l) Ease of operation; (2) Simplicity
of construction; (3) Durability, or long life; and (4)
Cleaning efficiency. The Eureka cleans scientifically.
The five points of scientific cleaning are
1. Eureka nozzle being supported three-sixteenths of an
inch above carpet from floor and seals it to nozzle,
thereby-—(a) .forming an air pocket between carpet
and floor and .drawing air right through carpet from
underneath,, and (b) opening pile fanwise as result
of bending carpet inside nozzle. '
2. Even cleaning ensured as a result of ! nozzle being
always same parallel height above carpet.
3. Nothing between fan and nozzle to interfere with
suction. i
4. The bag is big and porous enough to allow air to
escape as fast as it enters bag. '
5. Resistance to passage of air practically nil.
Do as thousands of other women are doing. . . .lighten your
housework with a Eureka. . . .the seven times champion of the
world, and only a ridiculously low price to pay. The standard
price for years was ............. £l6/16/-
Anthony Horderns’ Special Sale Price, complete
with Eureka attachments £9/9/-
(Electrical Dept., Second- -Floor. Free 1 Delivery City and
Suburbs, only.) i
These are the attachments for i
MODEL
10.
vA v
h
£
Reliable Coachbuilders’ Accessories
Dietz Union Driving Lamps
Price, 21/6
Sale Price .
18/6
fin. Angle Aluminium Beading, 12ft.
length. Price 4/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, length,
3/-
|-in. Half-round Aluminium Beading,
12ft. length. Price 6/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, length,
4/-
1 in. Half-round Aluminium Beading,
12ft. length. Price 7/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, length,
5/-
1 Jin. Half-round Aluminium Beading,
12ft. length. Price 9/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, length,
5/6
{Dept., Ground Floor, Pitt Street.)
IL mm
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
ē


Listen-in to Mick Simmons’ “Snapshots of
Sport” Session, Station 2UW, every
Thursday, 7.15 p.m.
Hkk Simmons
RIFLE
V,
&
fff# N
SPECIALISTS
Unquestion ah It/ repre-
senting the grea t e s t
value ever offered in
this class of Firearms!
The New
WINCHESTER
MODEIL
60
Price, 37/6
Postage, 2/-
Otlier States
w
22-cal. Single-
shot Rifle, for
22 short, long-
rifle rim-fire cart-
ridges. It hr. i a
23in. heavyweight
barrel, bored rifled
and chambered to the
extremely close toler-
ances necessary to ensure
maximum efficiency from
the various high-power .22
rim-fire cartridges that have
lately appeared on the market.
Special attention has been paid to “head
spacing” between bolt and cartridge, so as
to avoid the possibility of burst rims, and
provide the solid backing that is essential
to the finest accuracy.
Other Low-priced, Dependable
SPORTING
RIFLES
No. 1 —THE MAINE
■RIITI F 22-cal., bolt action, fitted
with plain V backsight; for
short, long or long-rifle cartridges. Round
barrel 18in. long, bored and rifled with the
same care as the military weapon, and
guaranteed accurate; weight about no r
31b
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/-
No. 4A-F.N, SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, ££ *s£
safety bolt, 21in. barrel; weight „p. ,
about 3-Jlb. OLI/-
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/-
No. 33 —SAVAGE
SINGLE-SHOT
RIFLE, Model 3,
22-cal.; 23in. round steel barrel, bolt
action; baddies short, long or long-rifle
cartridges; gold bead front- and adjustable
rear-sight; pistol-grip stock; weight ry ~r
l}lb 0/0
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/-
No. 31 BROWNING
AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
*2,4, 22 sllort or long-rifle;
jnOCiei each rifl( , takes one
size cartridge only; walnut stock, pistol-
grip ; lJHin. barrel; length 36in.; bead
front- and screw rear-sight; safety bolt;
barrel in ay be dismounted by un- AS I
screwing 1 turn.; weight .. OJ/*
Carriage Paid.
No. 15 WINCHESTER.
REPEATING RIFLE,
iCinfi Mndel 22-cal., 16-s ho t,
IVUO raoaei, 20in round barrel(
plain trigger, straight grip, ladder rear-
sights, slide action ; magazine holds 15
short, 12 long or 11 long-rifle x? s/1 S /
cartridges; weight about s#lb.,
Carriage Paid.
AVAIL YOURSELF OF THE
SERVICES OF
MR. LIONEL H. BIBBY
Revolver and Rifle Shooting Instructor
at Mick Simmons
and Australia’s Recognised Authority on
Guns, Rifles and Ballistics.
All Letters to Box 18 B, P. 0., Hay market,
Sydney.
MickSimmonslid.
720-722 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET. SYDNEY
“The Premier Sports House of Australia.”
JOBS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
MUST BE FOUND.
The Lyons Government can search for
them, and the State Governments can
help.
This is all shown in last Saturday’s
“BARRIER MINER,”
the daily newspaper published at
Broken Hill for over 40 years. All
the Far West people read it every
day.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know,
r ARMERS
P
Rural Topics. Dairying.
Stockbreeding. Poultry
IS Horticulture. Veterinary
1,. Notes Etc All in ..
■the AUSTRALASIAN
11 ON SALE ALL STATES &
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M'g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S :
THE MERRY WIDOW
(Commencing at Saturday’s Matinee).
J. c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
PANTOMIME
SINBAD THE SAILOR.
KING’S THEATRE: AS HUSBANDS GO.
RADIO B BATTERIES
0< TORCH REFILLS* '
’ ‘Tyeu) esfyeffer"" ers '
Missing Friends.
JOHN ALBERT RANDALL, last heard of
J 12 months ago in Mildura, Redcliffe dis-
trict, or any person knowing his whereabouts,
is requested to communicate with MESSRS.
,T. W. TREMBLE & PALMER, Solicitors,
Nhill, Victoria, who have news to his advan-
tage.
DO BERT S. HYLAND, late of Apollo
Bay, Victoria, is requested to communi-
cate with CHARLES STEWART. Stock
Agent, Colac. Victoria, when he will hear
something to his advantage.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING TO
THE TREATMENT OF TENNIS BALLS
AND THE LIKE.
''THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 22,852/29 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, 07 York Street., Sydney.
How doth this busy
little car
Improve each shining
hour . . 0
0
Her tank is filled with C.O.R,
And thus she gains more power.
(0
How speedily she takes the hills 9
How smoothly does she ride,..
ŵ
She knows that she need
fear no ills
With C.O.R. inside.
(After Dr. Watts ).
Wise indeed is the busy motorist who chooses C.O.R and improves not only
the “ shining hour,” but the sparkling performance of his car. For C.O.R
has the happy attribute of bringing out the best that’s in every engine. It
gives your car that singing note of perfect performance which every
experienced motorist knows. And, of course, when you use C.O.R you are
doing your part for Australia, too. For C.O.R is half-owned by your own
Commonwealth Government. In effect, you are a shareholder.
Cl
MOTO
ẁ
PIRIT
A fine Spirit . . and y<
our own
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Agents •: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: DALGETY & CO. LIMITED
C.I.19/36/32


rr~
x
%
Take Ten Years from Your Age!
Rekindle the Energy of Youth !
Do you quickly catch cold? Do you easily fall
a victim to every ailment that happens? Have
you bad attacks of backache? Do you suffer
from rheumatism — constipation — stomach
troubles — indigestion? Have you lost your
youthful energy?
TAKE WARMING
This is what happens. No
matter how regular your
daily habits, through faulty
action of the bowels par-
ticles of food waste become
encrusted in the walls of the
intestines. This waste mat-
ter accumulates and breeds
germ-producing poisons
which enter the blood
stream, thus undermining
your vitality menacing
your health taking power
from those life-giving organs
of Nature making you old
before your time. Most in-
ternal sickness can be traced
to dreaded self-poisoning
( autoxima ), the result of
hidden constipation.
BE INTERNALLY CLEAN
Dislodge this crust from the
colon and clean out the
blood stream. Free the sys-
tem of ooisonous waste mat-
ter. Drink COLOSEPTSC.
It’s the the prompt way to
internal cleanness to
glorious health and fitness
to new life new vital-
ity new energy. Gently
and without harm COLO-
SEPTIC acts on the colon
. . . the kidneys . . . the
pores of the skin and the
respiratory organs . . . Na-
ture’s four great channels
for the disposal of impuri-
ties from the body. COLO-
SEPTIC has helped thoui-
ands of sufferers to renew
their youthful energy. It will
help you! Send for the
Special Demonstration jar
and make your own test.
Fill in and post the coupon
to-day.
CUT OUT AND MAIL TO-DAY
|C
*3
CO
■ass:
a* 1 *
Kegular inU-size .Jars, al
All Chemists and Store*
(29)
To Coloseptic Co. Ltd.
10 O’Connell Street, Newtown, N.S.W.
I am anxious to try COLOSEPTIC. Will you
please send me a Special 1/- Demonstration Jar
and your free booklet, which tells how COLO-
SEPTIC renews the energies of youth. I enclose
stamps or Postal Notes to the value of 1/-.
NAME
ADDRESS
31 /F
Red Army and once its idol, wins, when he
from Stalin, refused permission to print and. circu-
late his policy. To-day Trotsky is «ng n
exile, while thousands oi members of the Com
monk party who sided with him m challenging
the accepted views of the main body of the paity
have been expelled from its branches, or are m
exile. . .
The issue, as between Stalin and Irotsky,
was simple; something very like it often
arises between different schools of poli-
ticians in this country. Briefly Trotsky is
a Red, Stalin a Red gone pink. Trotsky
claimed, in his old-fashioned way, that
Sovietism would never be permanently
established in Russia without a world revo-
lution ; Stalin said that talk of the kind
sounded all right on. platforms in 1917, but
that, as a matter of practical politics, it was
now ridiculous. A world revolution was an
impossible ideal. Unless the Government
could convince the workers that Communist
salvation was to be attained inside the con-
fines of the U.S.S.R. they would get dis-
couraged, and the Five-year Plan would
come to nothing. As Trotsky and his
fellow-maximalists refused to conform they
were declared black, and banished. It was
the only rational thing to do with them,
since Sovietism is still fighting for its life.
Mr. Tiltman is equally one-eyed on the
subject of Mussolini and his problems. In
the nature of things there have been many
attacks on the dictator’s life and Govern-
ment. Hence the laws condemning oppo-
nents of the regime to “enforced residence”
on penal islands such as Lipari and Lampe-
dusa. They are compared in this book to
the Siberia of the Czars; the hardships are
said to be intolerable, and as no parcels
or money are allowed in from the main-
land the internees are said to be starving,
or thereabouts. Yet “of 366 political de-
portees on Lipari, 48 had families with
them, including 19 small children.” Would
any political internee, if conditions are as
frightful as Mr. Tiltman represents, invite
his wife and family to share them? The
truth is, as the “Manchester Guardian”
recently noted, relations may send all the
comforts they like to the internees, but, for
obvious reasons, political sympathisers may
not send anything. In most cases, as in
modern Russia, anyone who conforms can
have his freedom back:—
To secure a pardon the deportee must write a
letter declaring that lie has seen the error of his
opinions, hailing the Fascists as the saviours of
Italy, and pledging good political behavior in
future.
Many Siberian exiles under the Czars would
have been glad to recant on such easy
terms.
Apparently terrorism in Europe is more
or less a thing of the past. Yet this book
deserves to be studied by all advocates of
revolutions of violence. It proves, directly
or by implication, on almost every one of
its 406 well-documented pages that every
revolution takes the same course up to a
point. Torrents of mostly innocent blood
are shed. All who show hostility to the new
regime; or have cause to be hostile by
virtue of birth or wealth; or have relations
who were hostile before they were mur-
dered; or are accused, secretly or otherwise,
by enemies of being hostile, are liable to
be dealt with ruthlessly—as the French say,
“to encourage the others.” It is inevitable.
At this stage the Government is at war, and
dedicated to frightfulness in self-defence.
If opponents are allowed to get their heads
up for a moment; if they are left more
than their “eyes to weep with” in the first
year or so, then the Government must fall,
as Kerensky’s, and all the others which were
illogical enough to rely on humane methods,
did. Where no weakness is shown the
tyrant usually wins, and is accepted, in
time, first by the nation, then by the world.
Immediately there is a quick return to
militarism, capitalism, international trade
and the control and direction of prole-
tarians by aristocrats (the latter may be
called comrades instead of grand dukes,
but they demand and get the same results),
and the people wake up one day to find
that they have only a change of rulers to
show for their graveyards.
There are detailed accounts in The
Terror in Europe of the Moscow mass
trials which began in 1922, and of the
Savona and other Italian trials. Also many
photographs and a first-rate index.
J.D.
Art and Actuality
Julian Ashton sums up:—
“M.G.S.” scores a point off “J.D.” when
he quotes him as saying that a painter, in
order to paint a hand, has to be an anatom-
ist. The artist is only concerned with the
superficial muscles of the body and the
general layout of the bony structure of
the skeleton. But he must have that know-
ledge if his work' is to look structurally
truthful.
Chinese and Japanese artists frankly
ignore facts in an attempt (perhaps a very
beautiful attempt) to present a charming
contour, firmly outlined, colored in appro-
priate and harmonious flat tints.
I think “M.G.S.” would probably agree
with me that a collection of the most
beautiful of the Chinese and Japanese
drawings displayed alongside some master-
piece of Western art would look thin and
unsubstantial, and after long contempla-
tion would become exceedingly boring.
It is regrettable that “M.G.S.” should
have dragged the late George Lambert’s
name into this discussion. It was, I think,
his knowledge of the structure of the hand
which enabled him to draw it, and his
accurate observation of the color and planes
of the surface which enabled him to paint it
better than any of his Australian contem-
poraries.
All artists seem to have one thing in
common, ceaseless work, in an endeavor to
produce an appearance of spontaneous
completion. It is quite true that a man
need not become a botanist to paint a
buttercup, but the observation which makes
him feel the beauty .of the buttercup in-
forms his mind at the same time of certain
facts for which he need not know the
botanical names, but which are necessary-
in the depiction of the buttercup.
A Satchel of Books
Thunder Below, by Thomas Rourke
(Chatto and Windus; 7s. 6d.), has color
and imagination, and the characters, parti-
cularly that of Susan, wife of the blind
engineering overseer in Venezuela, are well
observed, but. the style is sloppy. Like this:
It had been a good fiesta, really. San Mateo was
a small place and facilities for Carnaval were limited,
but the town had put on a pretty good show, really.
All literary postures are irritating, and the
posture of slovenliness is insulting as well.
The yarn ends with the death of Susan ,and
three of her men friends in an earthquake ;
Ken, the narrator, and Walt, the husband,
are spared. Mr. Rourke may train on into
a writer if he ever takes the trouble to learn
to write.
Squall Among the Lochs, by J. Strang
Morrison (Blackwood; 7s. 6d.), will appeal
to yachtsmen, Scots, adventure-lovers and
those who appreciate a good yarn. It is
about treasure-hunting in the Western
Hebrides. The story is told by a London
stockbroker who gets an invitation from the
owner of a 40-foot yawl to sail in quest of
a sunken Spanish galleon. The owner of
the. Skua —a most attractive character —
doesn’t find the Spanish gold, bur lie does
land a nice girl. Full of excitement and
romantic names like Tobermory and Ardna-
murchan.
The vogue of the sex novel is said to be
passing, but there still appears to be a brisk
demand for the homo-sex novel with an
English public school setting. Destination,
by Leonid Belz (Chapman and Hall;
7s. 6d.) , is another of them. Potter, a house-
captain at Lowton, falls in love with Dell,
a new boy, at first sight. Del’s mother dis-
covers some of Potter’s letters and brings
them, boiling with rage, to the headmaster.
He likes Potter. So he points out that if
Potter is disciplined her boy’s career will be
ruined as well. Checkmate. An incredible
book in Avliich most of the, characters —and
notably the headmaster and his colleagues—-
are preposterously overdrawn.
The main interest of Paul Morand’s
World Champions (Heinemann; 7s. (Id.),
apart from his writing, which is always
witty and melodious, and his knowledge of
America, which is magically intuitive, is
its full-length portrait of the late President
Wilson. Paris had “expected to meet at the
Gare Saint-Lazare an old gentleman laden
with dossiers and hedged by secretaries.”
But he arrived as unobtrusively as possible
—“a cautious, gentle, reserved man, speak-
ing no language but his own.”
In the course of a State banquet at the Quai
d’Orsay the Minister of Commerce, raising his glass,
appealed to secular democracy’to restore the universal
equilibrium. Webb held aloft his glass of water: —
“Yes,” he said, “the world is totally disorganised.
But those who believe in Christ are bound to hope.”
The brief study of Mrs. Webb is as enthrall-
ing as that of her husband. She also “was
uplifted by energv which owes nothing to
the body.” The Webb Report had not been
signed when paralysis smote its author.
“But. .. .but who’s going to sign?” I asked,
thinking of Webb and his dead arm.
Quite simply she answered: “I shall. I’ve learnt
how.”
The translation is so good that the book
might have been written in English.
And a Little Verse
MARAH.
I have broken the goblet of Luck; and it
rang on the floor
With the sound of a cynical laugh at the
tremulous hands
That could hold it no more.
Often I drank heady draughts from the
glittering stoup
In the days that are past;
Now, my friends, drawn apart in a furtively
chattering group-
Say “He’s failing at last.”
N.S.W.
GEOFFREY CUMINE.
THESE DAYS.
I have outlived the years of magic !
Ships now are merely ships to me,
Not Draken-shapes, as anciently.
Trains prove, these days, in no sense dragons
Coerced, sans doubt of sorcery.
To flame with freight of fairy waggons
Through Elfland to some dreamlit sea.
Life’s tamer now, not even tragic;
Only a space of hours to be.
’Tis all distilled —the mist of morning,
The fairy veil o’er sky and sea,
The rainbow of Infinity !
Gone, with the gold my heart remembers,
Lime-scented dawns in Arcady,
Suns that brood yet, in these blind embers—
Whence flame is fled'—as lost years flee,
My dreams that seek, still dragon-scorning,
The Elfland of youth’s memory !
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
HIC JACET.
Here lies, here lies
A woman with indulgent eyes,
And a mouth too s oft, too deep
For her lovers’ dreamless sleep.
Lost her breasts, those ivories,
Here she lies, here she lies,
She who loved the tinkling things,
Steel-bright wit and silver rings.
Stripped of power, stripped of love,
Earth beneath, and earth above. . . .
And a rock-hewn angel sighs
Over her with sad surmise.
N.S.W.
ADRIAN SUMMERS.
Answers to Correspondents.
So notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of commvnications insufficiently stamped. Same
and address must appear on the MS. So liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Mary E. J.: Commonplaces not very well
set out. ... J.H.P.; Knock out the rhymes, and,
honestly, would you think these things worth
writing? Yet rhyming is a very simple form of
literary exercise, which no more turns poor prose
into poetry than icing turns a poor bun into good
cake... .L.M.8.; No; but there is appeal in it....
Zetty:
Empty is the world around me;
My life’s empty, too.
We thought it was a song of bottles. But it was
only 10ve... .L.J.W.: Your memories might make
a better background for prose stories. They are
not poetry as you write them.. . .R.F.S.: One good
phrase—about “the twilight curtain”.... Brian P.:
No place for the verse, though we agree heartily
with the sentiments.... Pay Pay: But if the Bris-
bane papers do charge war prices for themselves,
what can we do about it? Certainly Tiie Bulletin
got back to pre-war rates promptly; but then, Tjie
Bulletin is—well, The Bulletin. .. .0.5. V .: You
take too long to get there... .W.G.W.: Please give
our kind regards to Mr. Slattery ; but, perhaps, we’d
better print your letter :—-
“I showed it to inr slattery he worked a long time
in Sydney papers but, he as a paper of his own now
in the country And he saved it would 1 e better
in the bullertin if it is put in a country paper only
the people in the districk will see it but if it is
in the bullertin a lot of peaple everywhare will see
it.” Poetry follows:
Evcrybodey is glad at the last election
the laboi'e party got a rejection.
the king plan crowde got wipped Out
and they dident like it to get such a clout;
they racken all the workes are Mad
becase they votted for the Other Crowde.
But Lang Wile soon have something more to squel
about,
for son tiie state goverment wile get kicked out.
for he will not be able to get aney cash
And than he wile come a propper smash,
then everybodey wile be glad again
becase it wile be the end of labors rain.
... .Sentimental T.: The dream that passed away has
been cremated. .. .T.G.M.: Racecourse urger is merely
a peddler of old tricks. . . .A.J.D.: It's not original
and it’s badly told. .. .C.M.K.: It you must write
about Sydney Chinese, don’t go to Hollywood for
your ideas... .W.Y.:, Pinching Karel Capek’s thun-
der won’t get you far.... Ethel D.: One writer in
a hundred suffers from over-compression. You’re
the one. You have ideas, but suffer no wayside
beauties to embroider them... .G.W.M.: Your “surf
eternal rolls.” Our bread rolls are as exciting.
. ...R.T.Q.: Not a glimmer in it... .W.W.C.: Take
heart, we’ve all felt the same. But it takes a
poet to make a song of it.... Howard II.: Not this
time. And perhaps not next time. But keep on.
. ...Baldy: Don’t waste time girding at the critic;
put it into improving your work. .. . S.H.: Old ideas
with no new light on them.... J.L.O’D.: Promise;
but still a good deal of climbing to do to get
inside these covers... .A.8.R.: Much the same to
you. ... .A.C.H. : Move too stiffly. .. .V.W.: Too frail
a thing. .. .James Maca: Spare our blushes. But
it’s not badly done.... Marjorie L.: Nice practice
for you, anyway. But you’ll not do much till you
write something with feeling in it... .Woodbine:
You’ve got ideas, but you’re very raw at expressing
them.. . .8.0. E.: Unsuitable. Let’s hear from you
on a modern subject... .M.G.: Don’t like your
butcherly association of “pluck” and “heart” in
the last line... .Maple: Afraid they’re all more in
the stained-pine class.. . .Lynda W.: —-
I wonder if you miss me
Just as much as I miss you,
And I wonder if to-day
You’re thinking of me too.
But you could do all that, dear lady, without
wasting a tuppenny stamp.... G.E.M.: Only this
cursed lack of space makes us send it back....
H.M.D.: Too sentimental for our taste. .. .M.8.K.:
When we read “the heart of me’’ at the end of
d line, we say, “Hullo, here’s another lazy fellow.”
. ...P.J.8.: One verse, chiefly for the sake of the
cows: —■
With serenade the lover told his rows,
The harvest fields were gay with merry lays,
With melody the milkmaid soothed her cows,
Rough soldiers sang of bloody fierce forays.
. ...E.L.: Idea’s all right; verse all wrong....
R. : The ear that could stand that dreadful
rhyme in the middle verse of “The Masterpiece”
wants attention... .Noel P.: Must first have your
definite assurance that it is your own original
work... .H.M.McG.: Metre doesn’t suit the grim
picture you want to express. And the last verse
is a crash... .G. 5.8.: Might suit a sporting paper....
A.E.Y. : Not up to your standard. .. .P.D.: Suspect
you of being inspired by “Not Understood”....
J.L.: Sorry, but we haven’t the space to cover the
days of Good Queen Bess. . . .C.A.: Wasted labor. .. .
■T.B.C.: Too long; keep within 3500 words....
J.K.J.: A Dyson or an Edmond might have done it.
. ...R.8.: “The age of chivalry is dead.” So is
your story... .M.B. : Pensioned off all the ghosts
in Australia . years ag0.... A.L.H.A.: That wasn’t
your lucky day... .L.S.R.: Has no story interest.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS,
A.D.: Don’t care for ladies with smudgy faces....
N.N.: Very poor. . . .R.N.U.: Fair drawing; feeble
jest. .. . J.K.: Untidy linework, and figures are not
well built. .. .G.C.E. : Quite a promising attempt.
. ...C.G.1.: Teacher’s advice is good; take it....
S. : Look as if they had been hacked out of
hardwood. .. .M.R.: Lessons should help consider-
ably... .G.C.8.: Try it elsewhere.... 11. P.: Kind of
stuff any youngster could dash off... .O.H.R. : Stiff.


4 * / y/A
Wms*
m
. •
■
# ***£&. sr
- * ■
m
Mi
• • ''V
- ’■
■s
: / z*m
. mm & I
- .'A.-if -
■
lgg
*b s
H
H
..
m
%
i
l
&
&
H
s
m
J
4
■I
■
a
1M


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 2711.
January 27, 1932.
TIME SOMEBODY GOT TO WORK.
HEAD-WAITER LYONS: “Let you the menu just once more!”
HUNGRY AUSTRALIAN: “Look, Mister, I know that menu by heart now. When are you going to bring us a bit of food?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 202 George Street, Sydney;
Ilox 2021111}; >.Phone 87971.
Victoria : llJi-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
\V estralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 1.) Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 0190.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia*
weekly: 12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 10s. tid.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. jor 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for Ijoz. To all other
places: Id. jor 2oz.
WHY DID WE SACK SCULLIN?
Well, why? In the last five months of
the Bruce-Page administration our imports
exceeded our exports by £28,244,000. In
the last five months of the Scullin adminis-
tration our exports exceeded our imports
by £10,722,000. For many years we had
not only not paid our 30 millions or so of
foreign-debt interest and charges with a
surplus of exports; we had not even paid
for our imports. It would be absurd to
say that the Scullin Government produced
the great change; we should have been
compelled to reduce our imports enormously
no matter what Government was in power.
Yet it is beyond all question that by its
tariff schedules and its embargoes and pro-
hibitions and its primage duty the Scullin
Government did contribute largely to the
result. Likewise it is beyond all question
that, though its course was erratic, it did
contribute largely to a change almost as
great in the Federal Treasury accounts, so
that a deficit of 13 millions last year will
be turned into a deficit of at most one
million this year, according to present
appearances, notwithstanding a very heavy
extra payment for exchange. Why, then,
did we sack Scullin?
No doubt there were many reasons; but
four stand out conspicuously, and the
present Government cannot afford to lose
sight of them for a moment: (1) the fact
that the army of unemployed continued
to grow; (2) the Scullin Government’s
failure to grapple with the menace of Com-
munism; (3) its toleration of Mr. Lang
and his misgovernment of N. S. Wales; and
(4) its failure to tackle the question of
radically reducing Australian costs, while
it flirted with its Treasurer’s varied schemes
for avoiding that reduction. The success
of the Lyons Government—in its early
stages at any rate—will be measured by its
handling of those four matters.
The Scullin Government failed ignorni-
niously, notwithstanding its success in
balancing our trade figures and in getting
very near balancing its budget, because
more and more Australians, lost their jobs
and the taxes on those who had any income
left grew more and more onerous. Any
blundering fool, it was said—quite truly—
could prohibit imports and impose taxes;
statesmanship demanded the balancing of
our trade and our budget at less cost than
widespread destitution and misery. It is
too early yet to ask what the new Gov-
ernment has done; but so far as can be
judged its inclination is to throw the re-
sponsibility for providing employment upon
private enterprise. Now, it is undoubtedly
true that private enterprise must be looked
to to employ by far the greater number of
the tin ee or four hundred thousand now
idle; and it is equally true that the best
hope for the future lies in encouraging
private enterprise. To that end the restora-
tion of confidence is of the utmost import-
ance, and something substantial was done
m that way when the Scullin Governriient
was turned out of office and both Mr.
Theodoie and the Lang-planners were
decisively beaten. But Mr. Theodore was
at least logical. He saw that if we were
not to i educe costs we must do something
else, in short, lift our internal prices, so
that wages should not be worth so much.
The Lyons Government very properly will
ha\ e nothing to do with inflation in this or
any form; its first step was to reappoint
to the board of the Commonwealth Bank
a director who had joined with his col-
leagues in stoutly resisting inflation so far
as was in their power. That being so, what
does the Government propose as an alter-
native? There really is no choice, as Mr
Theodore saw; there must be reduction of
costs. That plain issue must be faced It
is a fact, unfortunately, that the direct
authority of the Federal Government in
this matter is strictly limited; yet it can
do two thingo. it can act as the organising
authority among the States, and it can
proceed by hitherto unheard of economies
in its own sphere to reduce expenditure and
thus reduce taxation, which is one of the
prime causes of our high costs.
But while private enterprise must be the
principal agent in absorbing the unem-
ployed, there are tens of thousands—pro-
bably a hundred thousand—who have no
jobs to go back to and for whom jobs must
be made. Private enterprise, unaided, is
not capable of taking care of the vast
numbers of men whom our public and
private borrowing boom employed during
the 10 years preceding the crash, as well
as of the vast number of non-producers
who were able to make a. very easy living
out of the high prices for our staples. Thus
far, since the crash occurred, these have
been living on the dole, on their own fat,
or on the charity of relations and friends
often very little better off than themselves.
For a great number of these employment
will have to be deliberately organised by
Governments; and Australia looks to the
Federal Government to take the lead in
this organisation. Unproductive work, to
which Governments naturally turn as an
easy way out, is no good, and may easily
be worse than no good; it imposes a burden
on somebody else, either to-day or to-
morrow. The story about employing men
on reproductive public works, even if the
money could be got, is played out; we are
in our present deplorable position largely
because we listened to the same lie in the
past. Secondary industries, though there
is still much room for development in
that direction, cannot absorb these hun-
dreds of thousands quickly enough, especi-
ally as taxation and hard times have wiped
out large reserves of capital which other-
wise could have been used in the exten-
sion of industries. There is only one
course open: so that this present surplus
of labor may be taken off the dole or
the charity of their friends, they must be
given an opportunity of digging sustenance
out of the soil.
Meantime, in order to give that confi-
dence which alone will encourage private
enterprise to spend its own money or pledge
its assets in order to get credit, both the
avowed Communists and Mr. Lang’s Gov-
ernment must be grappled with. So long
as these are unchecked so long will the
future of Australia be uncertain. There was
a time, no doubt, when men of substance
mistrusted democratic government—the
rule of the people. To-day they know that
real democratic government is the only
sheet-anchor they can hope for. They no
longer dread the ballot-box; to it—as we
saw' the other day—they look for their sal-
vation from wild and fantastic schemes.
The Communists are out frankly to destroy
that security; they look to an organised
and ruthless minority to impose its will
(no matter how wicked that will may be)
upon the majority. There cannot be con-
fidence in our institutions so long as that
threat is permitted to hang over us. Nor
is the danger represented by Mr. Lang and
his Government any less; in one respect
it is infinitely greater, because whereas for
the moment the avowed Communist mino-
rity cannot impose its will upon us, Mr.
Lang and his minority are every day im-
posing their will upon the majority which
has expressed its abhorrence of them in
the most unmistakable terms. So long,
therefore, as this minority of repudiationists
and defaulters, whose policy is social revo-
lution naked and unashamed, remains in
power in N. S. Wales, all the efforts of the
Lyons Government to establish confidence
either here or abroad will a.nd must fail;
and nobody knows that better than Mr.
Lang himself. Mere Loan-council sparring
with Mr. Lang is futile. This is not a
case for sparring; this is a case for direct
attack. The offence of the Lang Govern-
ment is, not that it has spent a million
more or less, but that it is an avowed re-
pudiationist Government and a deliberate
defaulter, remaining in office in the domi-
nant State of the Commonwealth notwith-
standing that its Premier appealed to the
people six weeks ago and was able to win
only four seats out of 28. There is a
power to dissolve the Parliament of the
State and send this Government to the
people; and the Federal Ministry’s plain
duty is to invoke that power.
DOLES AND DIRT JOBS.
Lang said in his policy speech, now 16
months old, that his Government would
“take immediate and effective .steps to
provide land for those who need it.” That
promise has gone the -way of the promises
that he would not repudiate (“Labor sets its
face against all repudiation”), that he would
“find the money to complete all those un-
completed public works in which many
millions of borrowed money are lying idle,”
that he would abolish Bavin’s unemployed-
relief tax, restore 1929 rates of pay in the
public service, and see that the farmers
received 7s. 6d. a bushel for their wheat
(“what Labor did before Labor can do
again”). Thousands of honest fellows would
give ten years of their lives for the oppor-
tunity of taking up small holdings on which
they could at the worst knock together a
bush humpy and grow a bit of food for
the womenfolk and the children—anything
to get away from the heartbreaking round
of looking for work where none is to be
had and waiting for the demoralising dole
—but their cries go unheeded.
Why don’t Tully, the Minister of Lands,
and Dunn, the Minister of Agriculture,
instead of talking pernicious nonsense about
the wealth that could be won by swindling
the overseas creditor, cause precise informa-
tion to be collected, and published in the
newspapers, about the. Crown land avail-
able within seven or eight miles of country
towns, and' announce that it will b<s made
available for settlement by unemployed
Australians, as leaseholders with conversion
rights, in three- or five-acre blocks? Why
doesn’t their Government invite country
landowners who have more acres than they
can farm to advantage, and who cannot pay
their taxes, to surrender portions of their
properties, at a fair valuation, instead? Why
doesn’t it encourage people in fairly com-
fortable circumstances (there are still a few
left) to help the unemployed to help them-
selves, in this fashion and others, by ex-
empting them from relief tax on the
amount of the assistance given?
The appalling admission has been made
by Davies, the Minister of Education, that
30,000 youths who have left the Govern-
ment schools have neither jobs nor pros-
pects. It has been proposed by kind-
hearted city folk to put parties of these
lads on the land, where they would at
least learn habits of industry and have
'something to look forward to, instead of
years of soul-destroying idleness. But the
promoters of the scheme are receiving no
encouragement from the Ministry, and sym-
pathisers are deterred by the fe’ar of puni-
tive taxation (always in their minds since
Lang tried to sandbag the people with his
“special” impost of five shillings in the
pound) and by the knowledge that the
relief-taxgatherer alone gets his shilling
on every 20 shillings subscribed. The
truth is that the Government is incapable
of perceiving that there are more ways of
helping the unemployed' than by giving
them the dole and a day’s pick-and-shovel
work every few months. It has £lOO.OOO to
£125,000 of relief money coming in every
week, together with a tremendous over-
draft guaranteed by the Commonwealth;
but aborigines could do as much with it
as it. is doing. This Government is as
destitute of brains as it is of political
honesty and reputation. It has shown, with
bitter consequences to N. S. Wales, that
it can default and destroy, and it is show-
ing now, when 120.000 people, nearly
all its supporters 16 months ago, are in the
direst distress, that it has no more con-
structive capacity than a school of sharks,.
THE SELF-CONSCIOUS AUSTRALIAN.
A young man came into a rather important-
looking private office the other day to put
up a blind. The place was very quiet, the
man in charge working steadily at his desk.
The young man looked around, and what
the psychologists call his inferiority com-
plex took hold of him. He felt he had to
do something to show that he wasn’t over-
awed by his surroundings, that he wasn’t
afraid of this big fellow, that he was as
good as the best of them. So he began
to whistle, breaking off from that to sing
a few words. Ihe man in charge didn’t
take any notice; he went on steadily with
his job; and soon the whistling and the
singing ceased. Obviously it was no use
demonstrating before a sphinx.
T lie spirited performance of the young
man lecalled an old memory. There was
a little cemetery I sometimes had to pass
by night on a lonely road, dark and awe-
some, trees on one side as far as could
be seen, tall cypresses in the cemetery, with
white forms hiding behind them. I got
nearly all my whistling practice in the
neighborhood of those white shapes lurking
behind those dark cypresses. I can remem-
bei how I swiftly debated with myself
whether it was better to whistle loudly and
show \\ hatever Might Be There that I
was entirely unconcerned, or whistle softly,
hi case W hatever Might Be There should
be sleeping. So alternately I whistled
softly and loudly as the one idea or, the
other got uppermost—just as, I suspect,
the other day the young man whistled and
sang alternately, not knowing quite which
would be more effective for his purpose.
Looking back now, I know that what
was the matter with me was simple unsure-
ness of myself. There might be something
mside those white gates for which I was
no match, and I wanted to persuade myself
that I was. It was the inferiority complex
at work, just as it was in the case of the
young man who had the blind to put up.
Both he and I had to do something to
assure ourselves that we were not the in-
ferior creatures somebody else might think
we were.
There is a t terrible lot of this whistling
in Australia; and our history is largely
responsible for it. We were a people occu-
pying a new country, and until a very few
years ago producing little except wool and
wheat. We Were brought up to believe that
for some reason or other we ceuld not do
anything that called for much skill. We
could not be expected to know even how
to wash our wool properly, let alone spin
or weave it. We could grow hides but could
make leather of anything but the
crudest quality. Like a dozen other things,
it was ‘'colonial,” and therefore indifferent.
H e could make wine, but necessarily of a
quality that no trained palate could relish.
We had .schools,* but we must send abroad
for oui teachers, and have our doctors
taught in Edinburgh. In such circumstances
we inevitably grew up to have a poor con-
ceit of ourselves.
1 et underlying this was a vague idea that
in some way or other we not only were
being imposed upon, but were imposing
upon ourselves. So for many years we have
had outbursts of assertiveness. Sometimes
we whistle; sometimes we go on strike
In couise of time we shall grow out nf
this. We shall take it for granted tto we
can do what other people can do, and will
not think it necessary to go out of our
way to spasmodically assert it; we *hall no
longer feel it necessary to whistle as we
pass the dark cemetery. But we shall make
better progress if we see clearly what our
inferiority complex is responsible for
Especially ought we to realise that it is
responsible for very much of our public
and private extiavagance. "We wanted to
let the world know that we were not a poor
backward people, living on the outskirts of
civilisation; so we had to have many ex-
pensive things in a hurry—an elaborate new
capital at Canberra, for instance, and an
underground Sydney railway and a.
£10,000,000 Harbor bridge. And we had to
have hundreds of thousands of expensive
motor-cars. We thought the fact that we
ran a motor-car showed our superiority.
In thousands of instances it was, instead
the clearest proof of inferiority—we felt so
unsure of ourselves and our place in the
community that we had to make this public
announcement. There was the classic case,
too, of the four gramophones in one subur-
ban cottage: father having bought one, the
son bought another to remind them ’that
he was earning as much as his father; a
daughter, earning good money, bought a
third to assert her “economic” independence,
and a second daughter brought home the
fourth to show that she was the equal of
any of them. Unfortunately very few of
the manifestations of the disease have the
humorous aspect of this epidemic of gramo-
phones.
Not many features of American life
are a great improvement on our own;
but there is one. The average American
workman is proud of his Henry Fords,
not because they are Henry Fords, but
because in his wonderful country poor men
can become Henry Fords. The average
Australian has no such feelings towards the
few men who have fought their way out of
the industrial ruck. Our inferiority complex
refuses to allow us to openly delight in a
country which has done Tetter for others
than for ourselves. We suspect an inferi-
ority of some kind in ourselves; and, lest
the world should notice it and think less
of us for it, we force ourselves to whistle
and sing as we put up the window blind.
What shall we do about it? One thing
at least seems plain. We ought to aim at
less self-consciousness. If we can cultivate
a feeling of greater sureness of ourselves,
we shall not be so desperately anxious to
impress others with our courage, or our
independence or any other quality. We shall
take it for granted that they know, and,
if they don’t know, that it doesn’t matter.
S.H.P.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The New Hardy and the Old Page.
There is an abundance of good reasons why
Senator Hardy and ex-Treasurer Page should
seek to have the over-large States sub-
divided into more manageable areas, quite
apart from the fact that State Premier Lang,
whose capacity for being wrong amounts to
a disease, wants to abolish Federation and
run the whole show as one Communist State.
Australia still consists of the six States and
one Territory mapped out when it com-
menced its self-governing career, except for
the fact that it has since built Canberra with
loan money to supply a Federal capital. If
Queensland is left out of the reckoning
more than half the population is compressed
into the five towns of Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Perth and Hobart; in other words,
there are 2,304,081 square miles of country,
and more than half the inhabitants are
crowded into less than 900 square miles of
that area consisting of five separate dots.
There is no visible prospect of getting an-
other dot, even in the most desirable situ-
ation, unless a new State with a new State
capital is created. Indeed, the congestion
process is increasing because the State does
everything, because it does everything with
borrowed money, and because the places
where the borrowed money is scrambled for
naturally grow in importance. Nowhere in
the world is there a bigger State governed
from one capital than Westralia, and the
fact that the capital has grown fivefold in
28 years is entirely in accord with pre-
cedent. That the debt has grown along
with the capital is also the common rule.
There is obvious need for the subdivision
of the overgrown States, a matter which has
been in contemplation for 60 years without
making any progress. Subdivision of States
has been mixed up from the very begin-
ning with the problems of the equitable sub-
division of the public debts, and the public
bad debts, and the public assets represent-
ing from 20s. down to nothing in the £ of
the debts, complicated by the fact that the
public asset or liability sometimes follows
a line extending east and west, while the
natural boundary-line of a new State ex-
tends north and south. The whole problem
is difficult, though not impossible; no Aus-
tralian party has ever stuck to it long
enough to really know what it is.
And now Senator Hardy and ex-Treasurer
Page have slithered away on to the irrele-
vant track of so-called tariff reform.
Though both were elected for their
devotion to the policy of subdividing


unwieldy States, they now seem much more
anxious to cut down import duties so that
Australia may go short of revenue and have
a bigger deficit, and may import more and
have less work for its own people. In the
latter case it may expect to go bankrupt
through inability to pay for more imports.
For these two things are definite: to keep
solvent, Australia must do with far less
imports than it has been accustomed to for
a long while back, because it can’t pay for
more; and it requires to extract about as
much Customs income out of the small lot
of imports which it pays for with its own
money to-day as it did out of the stupen-
dous lot which it paid for with loan money
a year or two ago. The Customs income fell
from about £30,000,000 to rather over
£18,000,000 between June, 1930, and June,
1931. Something may be achieved by eco-
nomy, but the Customs revenue must be
got as close as possible to the old figure
because the money is wanted urgently, and,
further, it must be done without a corres-
ponding increase in imports which it can’t
afford.
King Cash and the Dove of Peace.
While monster petitions to Geneva and the
dressing of little girls in white can do no
harm, and are, indeed, a very appropriate
expression of the world’s distaste for the
burden of defence expenditure, the strongest
Minister for Peace is that very puissant
monarch King Cash.
The war to end war didn’t succeed
directly in its purpose, but it did succeed in
making war vastly more expensive. For
close on five years the world’s keenest in-
ventive brains were employed in devising
new mechanical and chemical means of
destroying life and damaging property. The
somewhat backward science of war was
brought into line with the very latest
developments of mechanised industry. But
this progress brought with it its own anti-
dote. In the war of the past man-power
was relatively cheap. When a nation is
right up against it it works practically for
its keep. In the new butchering industry
not wages of fighters, but materials and the
wages of the men who prepare them, consti-
tute the most important items. In prepar-
ing military material (the term includes the
requirements of navies and air squadrons)
the vital factor is not cost nor economy in
manufacture but perfection in the efficiency
of the product, and mechanical perfection
is very costly. So it comes about that
during 13 years in which the world has
never ceased to be nervous about the cost
of national defences, and has time and again
initiated agreements to limit production of
war material and the size of personnel, the
cost of preparing for war has never been
brought down to comfortable or manageable
dimensions.
Here is a comparison between the annual
defence expenditures of the big nations in
the year before the Great War and the esti-
mates for last year:—
Ahmambist Expenditure.
1913. 1931.
Britain £73,200,000 £116,700,000
France 78,300,000 72,000,000
Russia .. .. 102,000,000 110,000,000
Germany .. .. 57,700.000 37,000,000
U.S.A 50,000,000 144,000,000
Austria-Hungary . . 31,500,000
Italy .. '.. .. 24,300,000 57,000,000
Japan 19,000,000 48.800,000
Total £436,000,000 £585,500,000
Average per nation . . £54,500,000 £83,640,000
If we are to believe the French General
Bourgeois the German expenditure, as set
forth in the accounts of the Reich, is
grossly understated. Also, the Russian
expenditure, in the circumstances of a prac-
tical commandeer of labor, probably repre-
sents a much greater disparity with the
pre-war effort than the figures show.
A more striking demonstration of the in-
creasing cost of defence is contained in
the naval figures, taken separately. Whether
what are called “capital ships”—battleships
and battle-cruisers—are still paramount
factors in naval warfare is a moot point, but
there is not any more acceptable way of
roughly gauging the importance of navies.
Here is the record:—
The World’s Great Navies.
1913. 1931.
Capital Expendi- Capital Expendi-
Ships. ture. Ships. ture.
Britain .. 62 £46,300,000 19 £52,000,000
France . . 21 21,000,000 9 21,000.000
Germany .. 36 23,000,000 10,000,000
U.S.A. . . 33 29,500,000 18 76,400,000
Italy . . 9 10,200,000 4 16,500,000
Japan . . 17 10,000,000 10 26,300,000
178 £140,000,000 60 £202,200,000
Average per
Capital ship £786,000 £3,340,000
The real strength in the argument for
disarmament lies in the fact that the world
can no longer afford armaments on the old
scale, nor are they necessary to accomplish
the same amount of destruction.
♦
Again This Problem of Exchange.
“Mr. F. H. Tout, president of the N.S.W. Graziers’
Assoc., commenting on the Prime Minister’s sugges-
tions regarding unemployment, said there was a
national necessity to keep up the exchange rate on
London for at least the present export season.”
Mr. Tout urges the Commonwealth Bank
“to raise the exchange rate on London to
130 again, and to fix it at this rate for the
whole of the export season.” A few months
ago we were saying that Mr. Scullin was a
public danger because he would not face
the facts. To-day Mr. Tout and The
Bulletin alike are public dangers if they
will not face the facts. What are the facts?
First of all, what do we mean by raising
the exchange rate? How is the thing done?
Apparently Mr. Tout has the idea that the
directors go into their room and say geni-
ally, “Well, it would be a fine thing to
give Tout’s friends another four or five
millions. Poor devils, they deserve it.
We’ll make the exchange rate 130 again.”
That' looks easy. But what follows is not
quite so easy. The Commonwealth Bank
must then proceed to buy at 130 all Aus-
tralian money offering in London. For
every shipment of every kind from this
country .it must pay out here in Australian
notes £l3O for every £IOO. sterling to be re-
ceived abroad; and as £IOO sterling is worth
only £7l in gold, the Commonwealth Bank
would be really paying £lB3 in notes for
£IOO in gold. Mr. Tout may . not call that
inflation of a most dangerous character;
but there are those who would.
Of course the bank would buy it in
the hope of selling it at a profit. The
idea is that everybody who wants to pay
an Australian debt for £IOO in London
would go to the bank and pay £l3O 10s. for
the accommodation; and so the bank would
make 10s., less expenses. During the past
year we have seen a huge excess of imports
turned into a very substantial surplus of
exports, with a corresponding improvement
in our position in London. Under the stimu-
lus of the 130 exchange, exports would con-
tinue to grow; and, burdened by the same
rate, imports would continue to fall. In
other words, the Australian funds in
London for which the Commonwealth Bank
was paying £l3O per cent, would grow and
the demand on those funds would slacken
off. So the funds in London bought at
£l3O would pile up—and what would happen
to them at the end? The moment the
Commonwealth Bank stopped buying, there
would be a rush to sell exchange for what
it would fetch; and, with more funds in
London than were required, exchange
would drop probably below par—as it has
done on previous occasions. The plain
English of that is that the bank would have
to sell for less than £IOO what had cost it
£l3O.
You can fix the price of exchange, and
you can fix the price of wool, too. But to
fix the price of wool the Commonwealth
Bank (or somebody else) would have to
undertake to buy all wool offering at that
price, and chance being able to compel other
buyers to give a still higher price. That is
exactly what fixing the price of exchange
means. History is full of attempts made
by syndicates to relieve the producers of
the burden of too-low prices. There is
hardly a case on record of success. Nearly
always the ultimate crash has been terrific.
Certainly, it would be a splendid thing
to see the primary producer getting higher
prices. But the men who are advising
him to look to exchange to do it are
pointing him to a course full of danger not
only for himself and his industry, but for
the Commonwealth Bank—if it could be
persuaded to follow the course, which is
most unlikely.
The Victims of I‘oison Gas.
J. J. Clasby, the new M.H.R. for East
Sydney, and Albert Jacka, Australia’s first
V.C. winner in the Great War, who died
within a few hours of one another, were
both sufferers from German poison gas; and
the tragic coincidence will perhaps win for
fellow-victims more sympathy than they
have hitherto been able to command. The
average gas sufferer shows no ill effects on
nine days out of ten; for a month, or two
or three months, he may be quite as fit to
go about his work as the average person.
But then the disturbance works around
again; and the trouble is that one mani-
festation may be quite different from an-
other. In general, the heart is affected; yet
it is possible for any other organ to be dis-
turbed. During these recurrences the
patient is liable to attacks of the utmost
depression; and generally, as the sufferers
are also liable to great swelling of the legs
and feet, work is usually out of the ques-
tion. So the miseries of the gas subject
are rareljr paraded in public. If the attack
proceeds as usual, without unexpected com-
plications, the sufferer endures his agony
at home. If there are complications, or if
there is no home, he rolls into a hospital,
from which he emerges, if he does emerge,
with the doctors knowing as little about his
trouble as they did before he went in,
though they may know all about the
secondary developments.
It is the least spectacular of all the cor-
poral evils of the war. The empty sleeve of
the man who has lost an arm, the crutch
of the man who has lost a leg, makes
instant appeal to the sympathies of the
public; for these victims of war special
medals have been struck, and the tramway
passenger is begged to see that this fellow-
traveller, who gets his ride free, shall not
be allowed to stand. Not a bit less would
be just to these men. But there are times
when the gas sufferer is a pitiful wreck com-
pared with the limbless man, and deserving
of more pity and help. And, whereas the
limbless man at least knows the worst,
the gas victim does not know what the
future has in store for him. It had death
waiting for both Jacka and Clasby at their
40th year.
Stop Dishonest Legislation.
Dear Bulletin, —The Constitution of the
United States provides that no legislation
shall be passed by any State of the Union
which impairs the obligation of contract;
and the Constitution of nearly every State
contain' a m ~’''Yt : on against such
legislation. In N. S. Wales during the pact
18 months many laws have been passed
which clearly , infringe the principle so jeal-
ously, guarded in America. The recent
Moratorium Act, which cancels the obliga-
tions of a, mortgage deed and similar legal
documents, and likewise enables a purchaser
of real property to rescind the contract
simply by giving notice to the vendor within
four months of the passing of the Act,
would in the United States be declared, by
a State or Federal Court, unconstitutional
and void.
The question arises whether the time has
not arrived for establishing here some kind
of constitutional insurance against the
passage of such iniquitous legislation.
Hitherto we have not found it necessary
to formulate constitutional guarantees, but
have presupposed the recognition, in our
legislature, of those principles of honesty
and justice which obtain all over the
British Empire. But the atrocious perform-
ances and the further sinister possibilities
of the Lang Government give us “furiously
to think,” as the Frenchman says. As some
preventive against similar objectionable
legislation, it is worth considering whether
our Federal Constitution should not con-
tain an inhibition on the State Legislatures
similar to the one in the American Con-
stitution,, from which we copied so many
points. Whatever jurists and publicists
might think of such an innovation, I believe
that most honest and intelligent citizens
would be prepared to vote for the amend-
ment.
Mr. Lang has disgraced this State by
expressing the view that the sanctity of con-
tract is an “iniquitous” thing which must
be wiped off the Statute Book. And even
after Mr. Lang has been himself politically
extinguished, it may be prudent to have
such a form of insurance embodied in our
instrument of government, in case this
State—Heaven forbid!—should ever again
be afflicted with the same kind of disease. —
Yours, Daniel Levy.
Why Gold Is Nearly £7 an Ounce.
Australian newspapers lately put up a
new heading, “The Price of Gold,” and there
is now almost a daily record of it. Some-
times there are two records. Last mid-week
the London correspondents cabled that the
price there was £5 18s. Bd. per oz. fine, a
fall of Is. Bd. within three days; and in
Australia the Commonwealth Bank, it was
reported, had fixed the price for the week
ending January 15 at £6 13s. lid. per oz.
standard, or 3s. 2d. per oz. less than for
the preceding week.
Until lately it was supposed by many
people that the price of gold never changed
—that a sovereign contained a fixed quan-
tity of gold, and that a sovereign was 20s.
no matter what happened. Actually gold
always fluctuated in value; but since gold
was the measure or standard of value, its
variations in value could only be expressed
by changes in the prices of other com-
modities. When gold was plentiful we paid
away more of it for a given quantity of
goods; thus abundance of gold meant dear
goods, and scarcity of gold meant cheap
goods.
But then a change came. The principal
modern use of gold is to make settlements
between people of different countries. In
ordinary circumstances if Australia doesn’t
send France enough goods to pay for its
French purchases, it makes up the balance
with gold. So long as payments can be
thus made—that is to say, so long as the
importer can get gold in exchange for notes
at par for the purpose of making foreign
payments—the Australian merchant will
know exactly what he has to pay, say, the
French manufacturer. He buys in francs,
and the franc is 124.21 to the £ sterling;
and, under ordinary conditions, our £ is
equal to the £ sterling. But if something
happens, as something did happen in Aus-
tralia, and gold can no longer be got for
notes at par, then the importer who has a
bill to pay in, say, France, has to buy
gold on the best terms he can. All through
1930 and 1931 we had to do the same thing
in order to pay bills in England: for most
of last year it took 130 of our £ notes to
buy 100 £’s sterling—that is, 100 English
pound-notes. This really meant that we
bought gold (standard), not at the old
rate of £3 17s. 9d. per oz., but at £5 Is. Id.
per oz. to pay our English debt.
Then something else happened: Britain
also ceased to permit its importers to ex-
change notes for gold, having run very short
of the metal, and then its traders had to
do what Australians had been doing for
two years —viz., go out into the market
and with British currency buy gold at the
best price available. (This point has to be
remembered: it isn’t the sovereign that is
of value internationally; it is the gold in
the sovereign. The same is true of every
other gold coin.) At ordinary times the
English merchant, having to make a
payment in New York, knows that his gold
sovereign will buy 4.866 gold dollars. Now,
having to buy gold dollars with notes
at the best price he can, he finds that a
pound note (English) will buy only 3.48
gold dollars. In other words, instead of
fine gold being worth £4 4s. lOd. per oz.
in English currency, as it ordinarily is, it
is, by a simple sum in proportion, found
to be now worth £5 18s. 7d.—or £5 18s. Bd.
according to the cable previously quoted.
Fine gold is 24 carats; standard gold is
22 carats. Therefore, when fine gold is
worth £5 18s. 7d. standard gold is worth
approximately £5 Bs. Bd.
Now, that is the price which the English
importer has to pay in his pound-notes for
gold required to meet a foreign bill. We,
however, have to pay at present 125 of our
notes to buy 100 £’_s sterling, so another
sum in proportion will show that we must
pay £6 15s. 10d.' per oz. to buy standard
gold with Australian notes. The price will,
however, vary from day to day, accoiding
chiefly to the variations in the rate at
which sterling can be exchanged for foreign
gold. As we have seen already, the price
fixed by the Commonwealth Bank last week
was £6 13s. lid., or Is. lid. less than the
figure arrived at in the foregoing calcula-
tions. The Commonwealth Bank, however,
quotes only “approximately,” and varies its
actual payments from day to day according
to cable advices regarding exchange rates.
—
A National Clean Up.
The Indian Government, having laid its
hand to the task of suppressing the cam-
paign of sedition and revolution instigated
by Gandhi and his Congress following in
northern India, is carrying it out to the
logical conclusion of permitting no political
wrecker, no matter what his nationality,
to go on wrecking. Last week three Euro-
pean missionaries, two of them British born,
were arrested. . Two were promptly de-
ported; the third, who was directing the
picketing of shops selling British goods when
arrested, demanded trial before a British
court!
To find a parallel to this long-delayed
action one must go back to the days of
the Great War, when a number of German
and some American missionaries were in-
terned and deported for stirring up sedi-
tion in southern India. Later S. Africa
gave an example of how a nation should
deal with the foes of its own household
by deporting without trial a number of
British citizens implicated in the strike-
rebellion at Johannesburg. Only recently
Canada has expelled many Communists,
most of them of British nationality.
In Australia the situation calls impera-
tively for action. There is already power to
kick out the alien criminal or undesirable,
though more than once this has been
fiercely contested by their friends in high
places. The Federal Government has been
returned with a most emphatic mandate to
rid Australia not only of the avowed
wreckers but of their more or less clandes-
tine backers. There are many cases in
Australia to-day where deportation for life
or a term of years is overdue.
There is an impression that the necessary
legislation might have a boomerang
effect on members of the Government enact-
ing it when a vengeful Opposition came into
power. But a properly drafted Act, care-
fully defining deportable offences as those
directly aiming at the overthrow of the
rule of the people, could not be utilised
as a drag-net measure unless those charged
under it had committed the defined offences
—in which case they would be as deserving
of deportation as anyone else, whatever
their party, creed or political color.
“Insulting Language.”
The prosecution of the leader of the New
Guard for “insulting language” will have
one good effect: it will show how vague the
offence is with which hundreds of people
are charged every year. Indeed, vagueness
may almost be said to be the cardinal
quality of most of the charges under the
Vagrancy and similar laws. Eric Campbell
can afford to be defended by a K.C.; in the
majority of these cases the accused is a
poor, helpless, undefended creature who
some policeman thinks (quite properly per-
haps) would be better “inside,” and who is
brought up accordingly in one or other of
these dragnets. Whether the man charged
with insulting language really insulted any-
one is practically never inquired into. In
fact, it appears from the proceedings in the
Campbell case that it is even uncertain
whether truth is a defence, though that
would seem to be the most important and
the most elementary fact in any proceed-
ings based on an alleged insult.
As in so many other things we are not
honest. We don’t charge these people with
insulting language because they insulted
anybody; we merely use the charge as a
convenient instrument for doing something
which we feel ought to be done, but which
we don’t quite know how to do. We can’t
charge a man with being a person we
don’t like and don’t trust, so we charge
him with an offence of which in a vague
way he feels he is not guilty. Granted that
the bulk of these people ought to be in
gaol, or fined or bound over, they ought to
know what their offence really is. Again
and again we are horrified to read that a
crowd has stood by and watched police
being maltreated. But doesn’t it make the
average uneducated member of a crowd
very careful of having anything to do with
the police when he knows —as, of course, he
does know—that he may be shot in on any
one of a number of deliberately vague
and to a great extent meaningless charges?
These Vagrancy and kindred laws are due
for a careful overhaul. “Gad” and other
correspondents on the dole, writing lately
from the track, have referred to the fear of
the Law—as represented by the policeman—
which exists among the young men who
are now unfortunately compelled to tramp
the country. We must seek to replace that
fear with wholesome respect and confidence;
and we shall not do it until we can satisfy
them that in all the Law’s dealings with
them it is honest and straightforward and
never means one thing and says another.


“Never let smoking
give you a sore throat”
CRAVEN “A”
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 143 Years’ Reputation for Quality
w
POLITICAL
POINTS
There is a lot of political enlighten-
ment to be dug out of the “Wild Cat” page
these days. In sober figures it is set out
this week, for instance, that a fish-trawling
00. has just on Bs. in assets, including
3s. of cash and other liquid assets in
excess of liabilities, yet the market value
of the shares is only 2s. 3d. In other
words, industry is regarded as such a
hopeless thing just now in N. S. Wales that
the market refuses to even consider profits,
but figures on losses as certain.
Urged on by the delegates to the A.W.U.
conference, the anti-Lang Labor organisa-
tion is making a great effort to beat Ward,
the Langster, in the East Sydney by-election.
If it can do that Lang’s days as Premier,
however he may fare at the Loan Council,
will be numbered; there will be a blackguard
rush of country Langsters to join Federal
Labor, already strongly represented in the
Leg. Council. The story goes that one of
these troubled Langsters will anticipate the
“Mr. Lang’s protege, Mr. Eddie Ward, is standing
for East Sydney for the third time in a little over
ten months.”
ELASTIC EDDIR ( rehearsing the old act):
“How am I going?”
STAGE-MANAGER: “Rotten!”
rush ; there is no hope for him as a Lang-
planner in his electorate, which turned the
Lang plan down hard last month. Little
Coleman was to have been the Federal
Labor man in East Sydney, but his doctor
would not permit it, so Cunningham, M.H.R.
for Gwydir in three Parliaments and lately
Assistant Minister, steps into the breach. He
will have Scullin to help him, and probably
Forgan Smith from Queensland, and Pre-
mier Lionel Hill, who is sure of a raptur-
ous reception from the Woolloomooloo
wharfieS.
Things are going badly for some trade-
union tyrants. The crews of several steamers
have flatly refused to quit them when ordered
to do so by the bosses of the Seamen’s
Union, and the miners in two northern
N.S.W. pits have flatly refused to stop
hewing coal for “black” steamers. It almost
seems that these miners are beginning to
suspect that their president, the great.
“Bondy” Hoare, is merely a brainless
blatherskite.
Premier Hill and his followers in the S.
Aus. Labor Caucus—they have all been
expelled by the Trades Hall—have made
political history by dropping the socialist
objective. It is a belated recognition of the
obvious, but, even so, Hill and his associates
see more clearly than their Labor contem-
poraries. Hundreds of millions, mostly bor-
rowed, have been spent in the effort to make
the .self-reliant Australian a socialist. He
is not, and never will be, nor will he ever
be a communist.
Lang’s Minister Davidson told a toil-
seeking deputation at Casino that his Gov-
ernment had no money for works; “it takes
us all our time to keep the dole going.” Then
why should the people have to pay this
foolish person a Ministerial salary and main-
tain an expensive staff as weil? He is
cynically called “Secretary for Public
Works.’ There are 12 N.S.W. Ministers,
Lang included. Six of them showed how
little they had to do by going to Adelaide
and spouting at street corners for a Lang-
planner. If consideration for the taxpayers
were not as dead as Caesar’s cat, at least
three of these gentlemen of leisure would
be dropped. There were only eight salaried
men in Wade’s Ministry.
For one thing the Scullidores may claim
credit among “good” Labor men; they did
their utmost to make the Waterside Workers’
Federation supreme in its sphere. They
abused their powers, strained the Constitu-
tion, so that it might keep its monopoly.
Then along came the Lang-Beasley no-con-
fidence motion, and away went the monopoly.
There is a big W.W.F. vote in East Sydney.
It went to Ward, of the Lang-Beasley fac-
tion, on December 19, but lots of things
have happened on the waterfront, as the
Scullidores predicted, since then.
Although 1930-31 is alleged by public-
service politicians to have been a year of
crool retrenchment, the N.S.W. State Super-
annuation Fund had 22,164 contributors in
June, 1931, as compared with 21,640 in
June, 1930. And every new person placed
on the strength became an additional charge
on the taxpayers, who have contributed to
the fund as much as £696,000 in a year—
besides £150,000 to £200,000 found for super-
annuated railwaymen and £BO,OOO or £90,000
provided by “corporate bodies,” for which
the. taxpayers are liable if the corporate
bodies are in distress, as they mostly are.
There has been a steady increase also in
the number of Commonwealth employees
whose future has to be provided for: the
total was 31,446 in 1930 and the taxpayers
were debited with £205000. These over-
loaded services will be the ruin of us.
It was characteristic of Lang to drag the
police into his quarrel with Eric Campbell,
of the New Guard, and skulk in his office
while a sei'geant and a ’tec stood up to the
barrage that the Premier shirked. The ser-
geant professed that he had been insulted
by what Campbell said about Lang. The
defence mercifully refrained from asking the
unhappy officer what his feelings were when
the Lang crowd was vilifying the police after
the Rothbury affair. Lang on that occasion
said: “Five hundred police were rushed up
to shoot down a comparatively small section
of unarmed men.” Baddeley said: “A.
cowardly and despicable policeman ’it me on
the back of.the ’ead.” “Absolute murder has
been committed,” shouted Davidson; and,
Davidson being called to order. “It’s true!”
Davies yelled. All this in one Parliamentary
debate; and Lang’s newspaper spat venom
at the police until its fangs were dry. The
police have to obey the orders of even a
Government like Lang’s, but only a Govern-
ment like Lang’s would have had the face
to involve them in the Campbell affair.
Humpty-dumpty Theodore, back in Syd-
ney from a mysterious rush to Brisbane,
has been telling interviewers there is no
truth in the rumor that he is returning to
State politics. Be that as it may, Queens-
land papers report that the local A.L.P.
has offered him a nomination for the Mary-
borough seat. For a good many years Mary-
borough was a certainty for Labor, the
W(alkers’ foundry vote playing an important
part in this respect. In 1929 Blackley, a
cocky, won it from Dave Weir. Obviously
Labor is of the opinion that the seat can
be regained, but in view of the big farming
vote it is not the pocket borough that Dailey
seemed to be after Bill Mahony put
McSliortodds on the breadline by backing
Spearfelt.
A Government car, with chauffeur, was
sent to Palm Beach (N.S.W.) for the con-
venience of Vic. Premier Hogan. One
of the growlers (there have been many)
said he had had to lay up his car
and couldn’t afford to go for a holiday
HOGAN : “The Arab’s farewell to his steed
was nothing to this.”
because he was trying to save enough to
pay his Federal, State and unemployment-
relief taxes. A semi-official reply was to
the effect that Hogan required the car be-
cause he could not expect from Lang the
courtesies usually given to a visiting Pre-
mier. Car and chauffeur have since gone
back.
The 40-odd electors of Lord Howe Island,
which is part of the East Sydney Federal
division, were disfranchised at the December
election because there wasn’t time to send
them voting papers. Possibly they didn’t
feel it much, but the action was utterly un-
constitutional. A total of 38,380 votes was
cast in East Sydney, and only 1282 separated-
the first and second ; if the margin had been
less than 40, the votes of the islanders might
have made all the difference and conceivably
furnished ground for an election petition.
Anyhow these isolated Australians should
have their rights restored at the by-election.
Even if it be argued that they can hardly
cast an intelligent vote without knowing
what the Lang plan is, they are no worse off
on that account than plenty of people in
Sydney.
“It’s amazing the money the Lang- party spent
on the Federal elections. There are a Gosling and
a Gander in the party, and apparently it has now
discovered the goose - that lays the golden eggs.”
—Joe Coates, leader of the anti-bang group in the
beg. Council.
“Insulting brute, Coates! He will be cast-
ing his vile aspersions on our little
friend next.”
Although there was never a worse time
for social experiments, Foghorn Smith’s
party affects to believe that Queensland
can stand what even Theodore and McCor-
mack reckoned too costly in the boom days.
It pledged itself at its recent conference to
re-enact the 44-hour week; to apply “award
conditions of labor” on all public works;
“to rehabilitate industry and provide useful
employment to those at present workless,”
and “to restore to private employees and
public servants the industrial, electoral,
social, educational and other rights of which
the Moore Government has deprived them.”
With all that off its chest, it undertook to
find pensions for widows and “introduce a
child endowment scheme providing for pay-
ment of ss. a week for each child under 14
years of age wholly dependent on the head
of the family.” This is the very stuff with
which Lang baited his traps for flats in
N. S. Wales 16 and 17 months ago, and
there is another point of resemblance.
Knaves are going about Queensland saying
“Labor brought good times ; Labor will bring
them back”—and fools are listening to them.
Thanks to Sir Philip Game, there are
more M’s.L.C. in N. S. Wales than ever be-
fore (gold passes have been issued to 110),
and there are more M’s.L.C. receiving Gov-
ernment pay than ever before. Besides the
President (Prof. Peden), the Chairman of
Committees (B. B. O’Conor) and the Min-
ister (J. M. Concannon) the number in-
cludes A. C. Willis, who remains a member
though he has been Agent-General for nearly
a year; E. C. Magrath, the Deputy Indus-
trial Commissioner, whose position', in con-
sequence of a recent judgment, is virtually
a sinecure; Paddy McGirr, now chairman of
the Western Lands Board; T. J. Smith, who
kept his job on the Fire Brigades Board
throughout Bavin’s time, and the younger
Martin brother, who, because he is an elec-
trician or something, has been placed on the
Milk Board. There are probably dole in-
spectors and conciliation committeemen
among the rest, but the names of these worth-
ies are never published, though they should
be. Indeed, they should be called for
every week or so. It is provided that
“not more than one-fifth of the mem-
bers summoned to the council may be
persons holding office of emolument under
the Crown” ; and in an excess of enthusiasm
for appointing dole or tin-hare inspectors
Slang might exceed the limit.
Snowden declared before the British elec-
tions that taxation in the U.K. had reached
its limit; “we are far and away the most
heavily taxed nation in the world.” The
secretary of the S. Aus. Taxpayers disputes
this assertion, and awards the unenviable
distinction to his State. He compares British
and S. Aus. (State and Federal) rates of
tax, 1931-32, on earned income of a mar-
ried man with one child
British.
5 7 £io 0 0
2®? 23 0 0 15 0 0
35 11 0 28 2 6
600 . . .... . . 49 9 8 48 •> fi
1000 .. .. .. 119 14 3 128 2 G
3660 340 1 4 353 2 G
5000 . . , . . . 1616 12 7 1440 0 0
But Lang could put in a claim to the cham-
pionship if he cared to. He not only exacts
up to ss. in the £ income tax and Is.
in the f relief tax (he wanted to
make that ss. in the f also), but demands
in the £ on income from other States
and £2 in the £lOO of wages for child endow-
ment. All in addition to Federal income tax,
which goes up to 7s. 6d. in the £ on “earned”
income exceeding £6900 and property income
exceeding £3700, together with an additional
ten per cent, of property income. How is it
possible for a country with these terrific
taxes, and more repeatedly threatened, to
prosper or for those burdened with them to
give more work?
Vic. Government made a feeble test of the
real-estate market by offering to sell a 21-
years’ lease of a city block, 70ft. by 90ft.,
between the old Treasury at the top of
Collins-street and the public offices facing
Treasury Gardens. There was no bidding:
and a good thing, too. Some day the land
will be used for a building in which depart-
ments now renting expensive offices in
various parts of the city will be housed.
Lang violated the Commonwealth Consti-
tution in ways which endangered its very
existence; and nothing was done to him.
Even now he is flouting the Federal spirit
by taxing income derived from other States,
by imposing restrictions on cars coming
across the border and by compelling the
stamping of Vic., Queensland. South Aus.,
Wcstralian and Tasmanian goods entering
N. S. Wales; and so far the Lyons-Latham
Government has not uttered a word of pro-
test. _ Yet when Lionel Hill, the distracted
Premier of South Aus., gazetted a .set of
regulations designed “to prevent riots” on
the waterfront and “protect shipping opera-
tions ’ Lyons-Latham bellowed with rage
and incontinently issued over-riding regu-
lations. Of course Hill went too far in try-
LATHAM : “Throw stones on the line, would
you? I’ll punish you for this!”
LITTLE LIONEL: “Jack Lang started it. Why
don’t you have a go at him?”
ing to restrict wli'arf jobs to Waterside
Workers’ Federation men and returned sol-
diers and sailors with licenses; but there
was some force in his plea that Lyons-
Latham should not have undone the Sculli-
dores’ work without putting something in
its place; that in a clash between union
men and volunteers a union man had lost
his life; that more and worse clashes were
threatened, with Communists chipping in, and
that it was his duty to preserve order any-
way. When the Lyons-Latham regulations
appeared Hill frankly accepted the position
that they made waste paper of his own. In
short, the Commonwealth Government has
disposed of the small and apologetic cul-
prit, if culprit he was. Now let it tackle
the persistent offender.
As chairman of Vic. Liquor Licenses
Reduction Board, which is also the Licensing
Court, Robert Barr has done much more
useful work for the State than he could
have done had he remained in politics—he
was M.L.A. for Fitzroy. Since the board
began, 25 years ago, it has closed 1735 pubs
and 80 other licensed premises which sold
liquor. Hotels now open number 1781.
[For any pars, which require a signature under the
Electoral Law, S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb and Jas.
Edmond, all of 252 George-street, Sydney, hold
themselves responsible.]


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Lord Lovaduck” : Dropping into a barony
isn’t all beer and skittles, according to Clot-
worthy Wellington Thomas Edward Rowley,
who hurried back from Melbourne last year
when the death of his uncle made him Baron
Langford, the seventh of his line. The peer
has been complaining bitterly in a London
police court that “the title did not bring
me possessions, only ill-luck,” and misfor-
tunes certainly accumulated on his hapless
head. There were no baronial halls with
“gallant, gay domestics” bowing obse-
quiously at the door for him to return to ;
lie is broke and jobless; his very clothes
are not his own ; liis wife, who was a wait-
ress in a teashop, after “ruining me socially
by a series of press articles about then-
domestic affairs, is after maintenance, and
there is some talk of a bigamy charge in
the background. So the new baron s cup of
bitterness is full to overflowing. He hasn t
even the melancholy consolation of strolling
round to the House of Hords and taking his
seat there, for the title is an Irish one and
the whole Irish peerage is merely allowed
to elect a score or so of its members to
ornament that venerable institution. lime
was when a lord at a loose end could make
an asset of his name as a “guinea-pig ’ com-
pany director, but apparently this form ot
industry doesn’t amount to much nowadays.
* * * *
“Killaloe”: The right of every newspaper
and citizen to criticise a public man was
emphasised for the defence in the “insulting-
words” charge laid against Eric Campbell,
leader of the New Guard, but it is seldom
the citizen, as opposed to the newspaper,
who is charged with overstepping the bounds
of fair criticism. Lord Salisbury, when
Prime Minister, startled opponents and sup-
porters alike by bringing a civil action
against William O'Brien for an electioneering
speech in wliiclj he had been called all sorts
of hard names, the impression previously
having been that Prime Ministers cared
little or nothing about what was said ot
them, particularly in Ireland. The jury,
however, awarded the plaintiff heavy dam-
ages ; and as O’Brien couldn’t pay them he
was ’made a bankrupt. Probably the case
did something to curb unruly tongues out-
side of Parliament; but, of course, it was
not a Government prosecution.
* #
“Jungor”: Westralia, like N. S. Wales,
has a “burnt-bones mystery,” and the dis-
covery, made by a detective sleuthing along
the far-flung rabbit-proof fence, has led to
a murder charge. The ’tec was trying to
pick up traces of a French-Canadian who
disappeared somewhere in the spacious Mur-
chison nearly two years ago: _ and the
police party came on the makeshift crema-
torium, where .they fossicked out enough
odds and ends in the form of artificial teeth
and metal objects that had defied the tire,
including a wedding-ring, to furnish strong
evidence as to identity. After that, there
-was no difficulty in laying hands on the last
man known to have been in company with
the deceased, for he happened to be serving
a sentence in Fremantle gaol. The case
promises to draw renewed attention to the
difficulties of disposing of a body by fire.
It may seem safer than throwing dismem-
bered remains down an abandoned shaft, as
the murderers of Detective Walsh and Con-
stable Pitman did at Boulder in 1925, but
one can never be certain. At Mount Magnet
in 1898 the body of a man who had obviously
been murdered was found in a shaft quite
handy to the town, but all efforts to estab-
lish his identity failed and no clue to the
murderer was ever discovered, though the
police worked day and night to find one.
But that was before the days when laundry
marks and evidences of dental work began
to play a leading part in cases of this sort.
$ # * *
“C.P.”: Privy Councillorships, it is re-
ported, are shortly coming the way of
Lyons and Latham, “a desirable honor,”
one paper comments, “because of the status
it lends to Australia’s representative at
the ' Imperial Conference. This,” it is
added, “helped Mr. Scullin to regard it as
an exception to Labor’s ban on honors.
As a matter of fact, it was established
long before Scullin was ever heard of that
a P.C. was the one mark of royal (or
Ministerial) favor that a man with the
most rooted objection to titles and honors
could accept without stultifying himself.
Henry Labouchere, who spent a good deal
of his time in the House of Commons
pouring ridicule on ordinary honors, died
a P.C. Andy Fisher saw nothing incon-
sistent with his Labor views in accepting
the letters. Ramsay MacDonald and Snow-
den were P.C.’d when Britain’s first Labor
Ministry was formed. The distinction
carries nothing particular with it except
the right to be addressed as “Right Hon.,”
which most of the recipients, the politicians
anyhow, possess already. The one tangible
privilege is that the P.C. is entitled to
THANK GOODNESS, THEY WERE PAST THATI
NEW GREENGROCER: “And horse-radish, Madam?”
YOUNG BRIDE: “No, thank' you! We have a car.”
wear “a blue satin dress and cloak” at
coronations. But these are rare cere-
monies, and there is no reason to suppose
that Scullin or any other Australian has
equipped himself with this garb on the off-
chance.
* * * *
“Early Purl”: The sudden revival of the
word “sterling,” after nearly a century of
very' sparing use, has naturally led to some
controversv about its origin. It is a point
on which all the older dictionaries are prac-
tically unanimous. The Easterlingi were
German traders in England, noted for the
purity of their silver in an adulterative age,
and the word survives as a tribute to them.
But the newmr school of philologists will
have none of this, possibly because it is too
simple. Their contention is that “sterling '
is either from “steorling,” a small star used
on some of the early Norman pennies, or
from “starling,” four of which birds allegedly
appear on some coins of Edward the Con-
fessor. The Australian with any experience
of starlings will find some difficulty in_ believ-
ing that even a Saxon king would think the
bird worth honoring in this way. According
to other learned pundits the birds on the
pre-Conquest money are martlets, but the
avian puzzle deepens when one learns that
“martlet” comes from the French mcrlettc,
which signifies a blackbird, but that in Eng-
lish it denotes a swift or swallow. Pending
tin' settlement of the vexed question of what
Edward the Confessor’s birds really were,
the Easterlingi derivation looks far the most
probable.
* * * *
“Nakhoda” : One of the leading members
of Melbourne’s large community of compul-
sory Russian immi-
grants is convinced
that in times of revolu-
tion the female of the
species is even more
deadly than the male.
Driving along the
banks of the Neva, and
turning a corner, he
found himself in the
middle of a crowd of
women revolutionaries.
His next impression
was of a plunge into
icy water. Being a
non-swimmer he might
never have lived to tell
the story had not his
private coachman dived
in after him. The
coachman was not.
much of a Charlton
either, but he was
dressed in the tradi-
tional costume of the
isvostehik, a huge
puffed overcoat, and
this buoyed the pair up
while the rescuer pad-
died to the opposite
bank with his master
clinging to him. As
in the French Terror,
women were promi-
nent amongst the
audiences that
attended the Russian
revolu tionary tri-
bunals. and usually brought their knitting.
* * * =i=
“Verac”: Touching “Light Horse’s” par
about the waggon of Turkish money taken
at Jenin and handed over to lI.Q. authori-
ties (B. 30/12/’3l), the amount was not
great; but the two Aussies who cap-
tured’the waggon, along with its two Turk-
ish drivers, and never suspected that the
Jackos were sitting on cases of specie, pro-
bably kicked themselves hard afterwards.
We 'of the 3rd M.G.S. made a similar mis-
take a few hours previously. After having
rounded up 120 prisoners in our section of
Jenin we passed over what was left of the
Turkish pay-office, on which a bomb had
been dropped that morning. Turkish bank-
notes of every denomination lay scattered in
all directions, mostly tied in bundles of 100,
but we were content to collect a few as sou-
venirs, disregarding the bulk. A fortnight
later at Damascus they were bringing 2s.
in the f; 18 months afterwards the Cairo
money-changers were offering 10s. in the f
for them. A real treasure was captured at
Damascus in the form of 70,000 sovereigns
placed on the last train that was to leave the
town with most of the German and Turkish
lI.Q. staff. As we opened fire with our
m.-guns, the driver uncoupled the engine and
made off, the train and freight being cap-
tured. Next morning, twio boxes, each contain-
ing 1000 sovereigns, were found amidst the
frightful carnage of men, horses, sheep, goats,
donkeys and camels, which had been caught
in the fire of our 12 guns. I have one of
the sovereigns and a photo, of the scene.
* * * *
“Clerk”: Flinging his bags moodily into
the luggage-rack, the young bagman sub-
sided scowling into the corner seat. “Noth-
ing doing?” queried the stout, elderly com-
mercial sitting , opposite. “Not a blasted
penny !” snapped the younger man. “They
wouldn’t look at a thing, wouldn’t listen to
me. insulted me.” His senior raised surprised
eyebrows. “Insulted you, eh? I’m surprised
to hear it. I’ve been on the roads 30 years
or more and I’ve had plenty of disappoint-
THE MISSUS TO MILLIONS.
“When’ll the train come, Dad?"
“She’ll he here soon, Son.”
“Why do you call a train ‘she,’ Dad?”
“Because I catch it night and mornin', Son!"
merits in me time. I’ve had promises with-
drawn, I’ve been shown the door, I’ve been
threatened, I’ve been warned to stay away
from the town, I’ve been abused, I’ve been
thrown down a flight of stairs and had me
samples chucked after me, but never once”—
and he bit the end off a cigar—“never once
have I been insulted.”
IN NUMBER FOURTEEN.
FIRST IMPRESSIONS IN HOSPITAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
The dawn comes all too soon,
Stealing with grey felt shoon,
Like those within these walls who on
their errands come and go.
Time’s calendar has set
Another day—and yet
Why should it .so perversely make the
pace so deadly slow?
“Haste! Haste!” the preacher cries,
“Remember that Time flies."
The precept holds in youth and health,
though ways be rough or steep;
But taloned beasts and apes,
The fiends that Torture shapes,
Have torn his wings of mercy, so that
Time perforce must creep.
A blazing, rising sun
Throws high lights one by one;
The felted footsteps beat a rhythm and
faces, strange, astray,
Puzzle the drug-drunk mind
While Memory lags behind.
Morning and evening are the first, but
also endless, day.
Distress most surely brings
To light the trivial things,
A brawl, a crying child, a dog that voices
plaintive whine.
All such I can forgive;
They suffer and must live,
But why should all their troubles be thus
added on to mine?
The pigeons on the wall—
O, curse their mating call
Repeated till the very senses atrophied
would be!
Was ever lover lured,
Her confidence secured,
By such device of uninspired and dull
monotony?
THE FINANCIER.
“Like the necklace? I saved the money to buy that myself.”
“Good-oh! How did you manage it?”
“You remember you gave me a cheque to pay for this hat? Well, I banked it
instead, and then I paid for the necklace out of what I drew from the bank
see!”
God gave me all too well
The faculty of smell. , , , .
The sickly reek of ether and the whole
hygienic train
Serve in the Great Design
A purpose, bland, benign ;
But serve as well to stir revolt m senses
bond to pain.
But gratefully I greet
That sound of felted feet _
That speed on service swift as from the
gods to stricken earth,
Soft hand and softer smile
That patiently beguile .
Forgetfulness and lend to pain a sense ol
blest re-birth.
O, sisters of this world,
Or felt-shod,- capped or .curled,
Yours is a function, yours a power, man
misses by a mile; ■
Lay not your burden down;
This be your goal and crown.
To make a stricken soul forget his wrongs,
himself, awhile.
N.s.w.
BILL O'C .


“Dingley D.”: Commenting on Premier
Lang having been served with a subpoena,
along with the usual shilling, to attend a
police-court case as a witness, a Sydney
paper observes that “a shilling has come to
be the accepted minimum for conduct
money.” It must have been that a century
NO PHAR LAP THIS ONE.
“You don’t seem too popudar with your sister to-day, Jimsey?”
Popular! I put her on to a horse at Randwick yesterday, and just
because he, didn’t win she tells me that if he was in a milkcart
the darn stuff would go sour before he was half-way round!”
ago, when Sara Weller received the same
coin from Dodson and Fogg's emissary in
anticipation of the Bardell v. Pickwick case,
and affected to regard it as a tip showing
‘ uncommon handsomeness” on the part of
gentry who had no personal acquaintance.
l>ut if the minimum for conduct money
hasn’t gone up now that a shilling is doubt-
fully worth a third of what it was in those
days, it surely should have done. Certainly
there were no trams when Pickwick flour-
ished, but wheeled transport was available
at a cost which would stagger the taxi-
drivers of to-day; by cabbing it a man could
get ‘ two mile of danger for cightpcnce.”
* * * *
“Scales”: One might have thought that
to the French, who supped so full of horrors
during the war, the spectacle of a murderer
being guillotined would have lost all the
appeal it had in the period which gave
Arnold Bennett material for “The Old Wives’
Tale.” Yet obviously it isn’t so; the scene
at the execution of a young scamp called
Guillemot, with thousands of the spectators
in evening dress, fresh from Christmas par-
ties, seems to have retained all the features
of the function that Bennett described as
having taken place just before the Franco-
I russian War. A curious strain of cruelty
and a tendency to revel in the morbid have
distinguished the politest nation on earth
ever since the gallants of Francis Villon’s day
w-ere wont to take their girls out for
... . .
pleasant evening jaunts to the great gallows
where corpses hung, and to picnic near the
swinging, creaking horrors. And the French
penal system, with its Devil’s Isle and other
LABELLED.
anachronisms, remains essentially barbarous
beside that of other great nations. Public
executions were abolished nearly a century
ago in England; even were they reintroduced
it seems doubtful if “thousands of men and
women in evening dress” would find in such
a free show a pleasant climax to a Christ-
mas party.
* * *
“Subbubs”: Some years ago it was easy
to engage a stranger—a tram-guard, news-
agent, policeman, waiter or any semi-public
character of that sort —in a political discus-
sion. You said your piece about National-
ism (pro or con),
he app 1 a uded
Labor (or damned
it), and you
parted friends;
your pet brom-
ides released, and
each proportion-
ately grateful to
the other. People
didn’t dream of
being nervous
about their opi-
nions. Nowadays
1 divide strangers
into two groups.
When a political
issue is raised in
the presence of
members of one of
these groups there
is a tendency to
wince. The eyes
wander warily.
Laughter of a
somewhat forced
nature is heard.
You gather that,
while there is a
lot to be said for
Mr. Lang, yet
none of us is per-
fect ; and that
Mr. Bavin, good
man though he
undoubtedly is,
has his faults.
But then which of
us hasn’t? Ha!
Ha ! Your new
acquaint arice,
while no Social-
ist, needless to
say, is very far
from being an
a n t i - S o cialist.
After a. certain
amount of civil
probing, in a de-
spairing effort to
get at what the
devil he is, you
proceed on your
way as unenlight-
ened as before.
Members of the
other group leave
. yon in no doubt
whatever. I have had the merits of good
old Jack Lang, the toiler’s friend, and the
scoundrelly tactics of his enemies yelled at
me so threateningly on a city tram that I
got off at the next stop. The Red Guard
and the New Guard have killed a lot of
enjoyable social intercourse between them.
❖ ;{: ...
“Shikari” : Captain Dolman (B. 20/l/’32)
slipped. Lions are to be found in India
it you know where to look. Go to the Kathia-
war Peninsula, in Western India, and make
acquaintance if you can with the Nawab of
J anagarh. If you have the right credentials
you will be able to see his strictly preserved
lions in the forest of Gir, where there are still
a -i survivors of the manv that were
plentiful m Central India 200 years
ago. The only chance of shooting one is
when an occasional stray crosses the border
into Baroda, and to make a bag of the kind
is to make an enemy of the Nawab for life.
* * * . k
“Mudros”: The “Age” asks “Are we
m Qn/?ofe/ nUsi f aI? ” and Yog.”
(B. 30/12/81.) replies “Of course we are !”
It may be so in Potts Point and Toorak,
but anyone who was where the Diggers were
gathered around the camp-fires is at libertv
to think differently. On troopships the Gre-
gorian chant Ouseonthtopline” was always
very popular, and soul-stirring ballads like
“She Was Pore but She Was Honest” were
wafted over the starlit sands of Egypt, and
drifted on the night air from the picturesque
estaminets of France. "Strict Veg.’s” yearn-
ing for the Elizabethan choristers who sang
sweetly in the fields brings back to me
tender memories of Moonta on a Sabbath
evening in summer. Pouring into George-
street after the tabernacles had shut down
for the night, bands of young men uplifted
well-modulated voices in ’pin toons, paart
songs, and, as the year waned, Christmas
carrils. To listen to a Munta carril paarty
is to hear music, and I’m willing to back
Silas Tregilgas and “they boays from th’
mines” against all the songsters who helped
to make England Merrie in the days of good
Queen Bess.
* * * *
“Ootacarra”: The practice of employing
prison labor on the roads lingered longer in
Westralia than anywhere else. It was aban-
doned ultimately as being liable to inflict un-
necessary pain and humiliation on the road-
makers, yet it may be suspected that many
of tnem preferred it to the more secluded
occupations that would otherwise have
engaged them. They were almost all
short-sentence men, and the discipline
was so far from being severe that the
passer-by was always liable to be hailed
with requests for a plug of tobacco, and the
easy-going warders never made any trouble.
At Geraldton during the summer road-mak-
mg parties from the .gaol were frequently
allowed to. diversify or conclude their labors
with a swim in the open sea ; but the beach
selected for the purpose was a bit off the
ordinary beat, and when an indifferent
swimmer was drowned this form of liberty
was abandoned. The new penology and
the unions between them have altered
all these things nowadays, but whether the
change is altogether appreciated by those
whom it principally concerns is another
question.
* * * *
“Mudurup”: King O’Malley once obtained
some notoriety by an application for leave
to pitch his tent in the gardens behind Par-
liament House, Melbourne, on the ground
that his salary as an M.11.R.
was insufficient to provide him
with sleeping-quarters under
a roof. A more recent in-
stance of the straits to which
legislators may be reduced
comes from Westralia, where
W. M. Marshall, M.L.A. for
Murchison, sought a reduction
of a £4-a-week order made
against Him for the support of
his wife and family by point-
ing out that his necessities
compelled him to sleep in a
galvanised-iron f owlho use,
which he shared with a
rooster and three hens. Mrs.
Marshall demurred at this
being accepted as proof of in-
digence, giving it as her
opinion that her husband eco-
nomised on house rent so as
to be able to “fly around”
with barmaids and electors'
wives (the latter, by the way.
are just as likely to be eleva-
tors themselves, but the lady
was evidently in no mood for
preciseness). The Court
after hearing both sides, de-
clined to vary the order, so
the M.L.A. will presumably
continue to occupy his uncon-
ventional doss-house. Mar-
shall, by the way, is the man
who arrived in Parliament
rather sensationally soon after
the war by wresting the Labor
nomination for Murchison
from the late Jack Holman,
an industrial stalwart who had
held it for nearly a score of
years, and rendering it necessary for Jack to
n ? ew stronghold in .the timber districts,
his dauAitei’ 1106 Possession of
“Gosport”: The Admiralty has sued a
film co. for 15 per cent, of the profits
of a picture (“The Flag Lieutenant”)
which the mariners of England who
guard our native seas” assisted in
aking, and most people will agree with the
Judge who after ruling that the contract
was unenforceable in law. declared that
there was something “lamentable and sordid”
in the plaintiffs employing British sailors
for such a purpose. The Navy is so well
stocked with stirring traditions that it is
difficult to conceive how it could descend
to this sort of catchpenny commercialism
surely calculated to make some heroes of the
past turn in their graves. Only to gp back
as far as the war years, one may wond-u-
-what the downright .Tacky Fisher would
have said if a film concern had applied
to him for the co-operation of the personnel
of a battleship in the manufacture of a
“Hick.” There must be some queer birds
at the Admiralty nowadays when it becomes
necessary for a Judge to read them a lesson
in propriety.
* * * *
“Fusee”: One Alexander Shaw, a direc-
tor of the Bank of England, remarked the
other day, in a speech on the financial situa-
tion in Europe, that when an American .shell
was fired in the Great War from an Ameri-
can gun by an Ameri-
can soldier, it was not
charged up to the
Allies, but where an
American shell was
fired by an Allied sol-
dier other than Ameri-
can, it became a gold
debt due to the United
States. This is as may
be. but can anyone who
served in the war tell
me if he eve] 1 saw an
American gun? Cham-
brun, a noted French
artillerist, says that
“almost all artillery
material and ammuni-
tion used by the
[American] Expedi-
tionary Force was pro-
cured in France and,
to a smaller extent, in
Great Britain. Only a
few heavy guns and
10!") loui.m. field-guns were imported from the
United States by November 11, 1915.” The
“75’5,” were, of course, the French gun, built
in America to designs supplied by the Allies.
* * * if
“Cap'n Kidd”: The seeker after hidden
treasure is an inveterate optimist, but the
bell in this respect seems to have been borne
away by one Rev. Spencer Woollard. who, at
the age of 80, has asked the Egyptian Gov-
ernment for permission to salvage the treas-
ure from the wreck of l’Orient, blown up
during the Battle of the Nile. Wool-
lard’s grandfather, who was a midshipman
on H.M'.S. Alexander arid rescued some of
the survivors, was told by these that the
ship had on board the fleet pay-chest and a
quantity of valuable plunder taken at the
capture of Malta a few weeks earlier. Con-
sidering that the battle was fought 184 years
ago. and that the vessel was reported as
having been blown to pieces by her maga-
zines, the Rev. Spencer must be an exceed-
ingly sanguine person. However, the Gyppos
are willing on condition that their Govern-
ment retains 52$ per cent, of any treasure
that may materialise.
“Full Choke”: One of the difficulties
afflicting the average gunshot is that when
he goes off his shooting, as invariably
happens at one time or another, it is not
easy for him to see whether he is shooting
high or low or pulling off his target. One
big English firm has just placed a tracer
shotgun cartridge on the market. The shot
charge contains a small tracer capsule, which
is ignited when the gun is fired and burns
almost in the centre of the pattern for a
distance of 75 yards or so. A bright spot of
light from this accurately marks the trajec-
tory of the charge, thus enabling the shooter
to correct his error with the next barrel.
* * *
_ “Erua”: The grievance of British
civilians who find themselves unentitled to
the compensation the Crown has secured
for their injuries by a foreign power (B.
20/l/’32) recalls the case of the attractive
young Maori woman who complained to a
SHE’D RUN TRUE TO FORM.
CLARA. "If you die before me, dear, you will 'promise
to wait for me on the other side."
JAMES . "Don't worry, dear—I never went anywhere
yet without having to wait for you."
magistrate that a sheik of her own color had
kissed her against her will. The S.M. mulcted
the chastened youth in a fine of £l, and
the lady watched him dejectedly leave the
court after paying the penalty. 'She herself
sat on until informed that her case was
over and she was at liberty to rejoin her
fnends outside. She replied that she was
waiting for the pound. But that, explained
the official kindly, didn’t go to her; it went
to the Queen. In a fury of indignation
tile young woman arose. “Whaffor te
5rn WlTn , t f! money?” she demanded.
lomaki he no kiss old Wikitoria! He
kiss me!”
SOFT SOAP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Concannon, Vice-President of the N.S.W.
Executive Council, at the civic reception to the
Prime Minister: ‘I am glad of the opportunity to
do honor to an eminent statesman and to welcome
him to Sydney in a spirit of friendship. I hope our
guest will retain the Prime Ministership for the full
three years.’ ’’
“Mr. Lyons, a few hours later: ‘Let us go from
one victory to another. The task of the Federal
Government would he utterly hopeless did we not
expect that in the near future you will remove this
unfortunate, tragic Government, this incubus, from
N. S. Wales.’ ”
To cast your bread upon the waters, brother.
Needn’t occasion you the least concern,
For soon or late, and in some form or other,
The Scripture says it’s certain to return.
’Tis sound investment, not a risky flutter,
Your rolls in metaphoric waves to slam,
But seemingly it’s not as true of butter
And doesn’t in the least apply to jam.
Return in kind is far from safe to plan on
With such', you must have learned by now,
Concannon!
Soft words, they tell you, will avert dis-
pleasure
And bitterness disarm as oft as not;
You proffered apple sauce in generous
measure
And in requital nought but gall you got.
You wished him of his office long enjoy-
ment,
And in return men later heard him snort
A fervent hope your period of employment
Would soon be cut incontinently short.
You offered him caresses, unsuspicious
They’d lay you open to a kick so vicious.
Maybe, when he retired to think anent it
And framed that somewhat shattering
reply,
He’d quite made up his mind you never
meant it
(As, to be absolutely frank, have I).
The cheers it won were blent, I note, with
laughter,
Leavened with mirth; and tell me, if you
durst,
Would you have breathed your panegyric
after,
If he’d got in with his philippic first?
And won’t your Mussolini put a ban on
Such heresies as this henceforth, Concannon ?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


The Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
I
Bulletin Buildings !
15 2 Georqe Street, j
S V D N E. V
The Macleod Gallery will be opened
during Bridge Celebration Week, and
will be one of its big attractions.
The Gallery, which is on the sixth floor .of the new Bulletin Buildings, is 150 feet long, with magnificent natural lighting, and
largest private gallery in Australia. , ? r
Artists and collectors who have works for sale are invited to communicate with the Director, Mr. G. V. F. ann,
Director of the National Art Gallery of N. b. Wales.
Conditions and other particulars from the Director, Macleod Gallery, Box 252188, G2P.0., Sydney.
is the
years
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some February birthdays:—
Pnlonel Brinsmead, 49, on 2nd; Rev. Wallace
noane M.A., B.D. (Syd.), Methodist minister and
D T e : r, 4 on 3rd; Peter Whitington (S. Aus.
rorner Commissioner of Audit), 87, on 4th; Rev.
r F Bennett, M.A., B.D. (master of Wesley Coll.,
tV r )4 on sth; Richard Linton (founder of Big
Brother movement in Aust.), 54, on 7th; Dr A B.
' (sen. sec. of Australasian Science Ass’n), 43,
n Mh- Sand Premier A. E. Moore, 56, Allan
will-ie ’ r .4 and Air-Commodore Kingsford Smith, 35,
nii Sth; Robert Garran (retired Federal Solicitor-
(Vneril) 65, on 10th; knight Albert Gould (Syd.,
fni-merlv Pres, of Federal Senate), 85, Prof. Carslaw
!s 62 Prof. Ewart, F.R.S. (Melb.), 60, and
Waior-Gen Rosenthal, 57, on 12th; Archbishop Kelly
*9 mid Melb scientist Frederick Chapman, 68, on
nth- Geo. Black, M.L.C., of N.S.W. (early Bun-
; PTI K sub-editor), 78, on 15th; Justice McTiernan
(High Court), 40, on 16th; “Banjo” Paterson, 68,
on 17th; Justice Macrossan (Q land), 51, Rev.
Alfred Gifford (Surrey Hills, Vic.), 64, and S.
Vus novelist Dorothy Langsford, on 20th; Judge
Drake-Brockman, 48, on 21st; Justice Starke (High
p ' (;i oil 22nd; Norman Lindsay, 53, and
novelist Jas. M. Walsh, 35, on 23rd; W. A. Selle
(Registrar of Syd. Uni.), 49, on 24th; artist Percy
Reason 43 Customs Comptroller Ernest Hall, 61,
and Staniforth Smith (ex-Senator and sometime high
official in Papua), 63, on 25th; prof.-knight Mungo
MacCallum (Syd.), 78, on 26th; medico-knight
James Barrett (Melb.), 70, on 27th.
No fewer than seven Tas. ex-Premiers
are still on deck; Lewis (1899-1903, and
1909-12) ; Propsting (1903-04) ; Evans
(1904-09) • Earle (one week in 1909 and
aVn in 1914-10) ; Lee (1916-22, and in
1923); Hayes (1922-23) ; Lyons (1923-28).
Five of the seven are still in politics; John
Evans, Speaker and “father” of the
Assembly; Walter Lee, Lands and Works
for the McPhees; Propsting, Pres. Leg.
Council; Ilayes, Senator; and Lyons, Prime
Minister, As: Chancellor of Tas. University,
knight Lewis is kept busy, and John Earle
(whose health, The Bulletin is sorry to
hear, is not too good of late) lives the quiet
life on his “Down Channel” orchard.
Patrick Michael McGirr, recently appointed
chairman of tne N.S.W, Western Land
Board, is the big brother of the happy-go-
lucky McGirr trio of Parkes (N.S.W. L
Greg, the middle one, used to be the only
Minister for Motherhood in the world. He
has been outside the A.L.P. for years.
P. M. McGIRR, Chairman N. S. Wales
Western Lands Board.
The baby, Jim, is Lang’s Minister for
Local Government. Paddy, who is creep-
ing on to the threescore mark, is
a large and boisterous gentleman who
inherited a taste for farming from his hard-
working dad, but has all the hallmarks of
a successful publican. Paddy was born at
farkes and educated at St. Joseph’s Convent
School. He was twice a member of the
1 arkes Municipal Council and also had a
long spin on the Parkes Land Board. When
Tom Thrower died in 1917, Paddy got in
tor Macquarie, but three years later was
squeezed out when the seat was included in
the three-member Murrumbidgee electorate.
Shortly afterwards Jack Storey appointed
kttn to the Upper House, of which he is
st dl a member.
Tom Burke, Melbourne’s big land-agent,
was one of the worst sufferers by the bush-
nres in Vic. His country mansion at Bays-
water, handy to the Dandenong hills, was
destroyed with its furnishings, and some of
his near relatives had to take shelter in
a creek while the flames were sweeping the
property. The' homestead, which contained
40 rooms, was built by the late Matthew
Davies when he was Speaker of the Legis-
lative Assembly in 1887; the cost was close
on £30,000.
On Sunday E. H. Wreford completed 50
years’ service with the National Bank of
Australasia, whose chief he has been since
.1912, and before that, he had been most
things, from office boy to London manager
and assistant chief. The history of the Wre-
ford family runs back to the very early
days of South Aus., in which State E.ll.
joined up : a promising ! young man in the
E. H. WREFORD, General Manager of the
National Bank of Australasia.
local service at that time was J. G. Addi-
son, whom Mr. Wreford succeeded in the
chair. When that happened—in March, 1912
—the deposits with the bank were 11 mil-
lions ; they are now 33 millions; and ad-
vances have moved on from 9 to 31 millions.
The board-room of the bank is to have
another portrait presently: Mclnnes is
doing it.
Robert Bush, who is due in Australia in
a week or two on a visit, will be gratefully
remembered by many Diggers. During the
war he turned his fine home at Bishop’s
Knoll, near Bristol, into a hospital, and he
and his wife could never do too much for
Australian soldiers. Bush was a highly suc-
cessful squatter in Westralia’s nor’-west
many years ago; he named his station,
Clifton ‘ Downs, after one of the scenes of
his youth, and at one time lie sat in the
then colony’s Legislative Council. A brother,
J.A., also a Cliftonian, who died a few years
ago. was a contemporary of “W.G.’s” and
the foremost amateur- wicketkeeper of his
time. Robert is still a director of Dalgety’s.
Mrs. Mary Ann McLernon, who reached
the age of 101 before she died at Narrabri
(N.S.W.), was one of the few who could
say that she had seen the Indian Mutiny at
first halid. Her husband was paymaster of
the 62nd Regiment. She was its head nurse,
and was one of those who entered Lucknow
immediately after the relief. Fifty years
ago she followed her sons to Australia, and
became matron of the Narrabri hospital.
After 48 years’ service with the depart-
ment controlling mental hospitals in N. S.
Wales, Dr. Chisholm Ross has just said an
official good-bye to ft. In recording the
departure Dr. Hogg, the Inspector-General,
said that in one capacity or another Dr.
Ross had come in contact with most of the
patients in the department’s care, and had
done work far beyond the monetary pay he
had received—the motive, he added, was
not hard to seek in view of Dr. Ross s well-
known beneficence. “I thank Dr. Ross,
the Inspector-General said, ‘“for the work lie
has done for the department, and also on
behalf of the great number of unfortunate
persons who are unable to express their
thanks to him personally, but have had the
good fortune to have been under his kindly
care.” Dr. Ross will continue his private
practice.
O. j. Levien, whose death in Melbourne
was reported last week, was one of the
pioneers of Edic Creek goldmining, but the
real discoverer of the field was Sharkeye
Park who, when Levien was district olhcer
at Morobe, had disappeared mysteriously
into the ranges and remained m them.
Levien became anxious for Park s_ safety,
went after him with a patrol, and found
him so stacked up with gold that he was
wondering how he could shift it. -The D.O.
o-ave him that assistance, after the neces-
sarv business of recording claims, etc. had
been completed, and. having furnished his
report to Rabaul, resigned from the Govern-
ment and took up claims for himself and
friends. A capable and farsighted man,
Levien founded Guinea Gold, the first N.G.
company to do anything but issue prospec-
tuses. Until the co. sold out to New Guinea
Goldfields and Bulolo Dredging it was a
genuine dividend-earner, while by building
sawmills and planting big areas for native
gardens it went far ahead of its contem-
poraries. To Levien’s credit, too, must be
reckoned the establishment of Guinea Air-
ways, which brought “the beach” at Sala-
maua.'within two hours’ distance of the field :
before that the- journey involved seven
days’ fpofslogging over, wild mountains,
C.-.T. was the second ' son of Jonas Felix
Lpvien, who was Minister for Mines and
Agriculture in the Vic. Service-Berry’ Cabinet
(1883-86). .
Queensland’s new Land Administration
Board consists of chairman W. L. Payne,
A. G. Melville and T. Iv. Harvey, with J. P.
Harvey to act as permanent deputy member
in place of any regular unable to attend.
Payne has made a considerable name for
himself as chairman of the Pricldy-pear
Board and of the North Queensland De-
velopment Commission. Melville, Qucens-
laml-born, like his chief, is Under-Secretary
for Lands. T. A. Harvey hails from Gympie,
and has as wide an experience of Queens-
land land conditions as any of his confreres.
The deputy member is a comparative new-
comer to the public service, joining in 1923
when a practising, surveyor, and becoming
Surveyor-General six years later.
The Very Reverend Ronald Hayes, until
recently director of St. Columban’s Mission
in Melbourne, will succeed Dr. Shiel as R.C.
Bishop of Rockhampton. The bishop-elect is
only 89; he went from Xavier College to
tin 1 Propaganda College at Rome, returning
after his ordination in 1918. and joining the
mission two years later. One of his pre-
decessors in the Rockhampton see, Arch-
bishop Duhig, of . Queensland, attained the
dignity at 36.
D. Ivelleher, dead at Mt. Isa (Q.) at 57,
could claim some unusual experiences.
Beginning in the Queensland railways,
lie was a traffic inspector when he
was transferred to a similar position
under the late J. E. F’oley, then traffic
manager of the Pekin-Mukden railway,
at Tientsin. In recognition of his services
during the Chinese revolution, the French
Government presented him with the Legion of
Honor, while the Chinese Government be-
stowed on him the Order of the Tiger. The
Mukden Government, not to- be outdone,
granted him a medal for military service.
• South Aus. may lack forests, but it can
train forestry experts., For example, Roy
Robinson, its Rhodes scholar of 1905 ; he now
(with a knighthood) gets the chairmanship
of the British Forestry Commission. And
T. N. Stoate, of the Westralian Forest
Department, is back from two years at
Oxford, as first holder of the Russell Grim-
wade travelling scholarship. He had a
B. of Adelaide before he started.
Commander A. J. Loudoun-Shand, who
has been sent over from Adelaide to Mel-
bourne as District Naval Officer after nearly
six years’ service in S. Australia, is one
of the few naval heads who grew up in the
mercantile marine. He was trained on one
Commander LOUDOUN-SHAND, new
Naval District Officer of Victoria.
of the last of the clippers that history bothers
about —the Macquarie. Afterwards he
joined the Adelaide Steamship Co., but when
the war started he transferred to the navy
and wound up in command of 11.M.5. Mar-
guerite. He was born at Elgin, in Scotland.
If William McCall wins East Sydney
he will be the baby of the House of Reps.
He is only 25, though one would not think
it gazing at the tall (he is a six-footer), deep-
chested young man. Born at Chatswood
(N.S.W.), an old boy of Sydney Grammar,
he was bitten by the political bug. at an age
when most youths are concerned only with
sport and the movies. Strolling into the
Nationalist headquarters in Sydney one day,
WILLIAM McCALL.
lie offered to do his bit for the cause. It was
discovered that the lanky youth could speak,
and he was invited to mount the party’s
platform at suburban meetings; since
then lie has been a constant speaker under
the Nationalist sign. Shortly after the last
State elections he was one of three young
members appointed to the central executive
of the party and he was a delegate to the
last triennial inter-State conference in Mel-
bourne —the youngest delegate in the history
of those gatherings. Prior to the recent
Federal elections, he nominated for the
Martin pre-selection, and was only just
beaten by Billy ITolman; and he addressed
many meetings for poor Clasby, of whom he
was a close friend. Outside politics McCall
is interested in the wool and skin trade. He
commenced business on his own account in
that line at an extraordinarily early age.
Peter Vesper, dead at Barcaldine at
87, was one of Central Queensland’s lead-
ing identities for more than half a century.
Born at Essen in Germany, then guiltless of
the Krupps, he came to Rockhampton in
1863 am, built up an extensive carrying-
business. To this he added hotels, and as
the years went on acquired station pro-
perties in the Jericho country, the best-
known being Clunie Vale.
Norman Wilson Barrett, avlio died suddenly
at Camooweal in far north-western Queens-
land the other day, while flying down from
Darwin, was a typical specimen of Austra-
lian grit; though physically handicapped
from birth, he achieved distinction both in
the world of sport and, after his university
days, at the Bar. Born in Melbourne, he was
practically handless, but at Scotch Col-
lege and Melbourne University he triumphed
over his disabilities. He was one of the best
track athletes of his time in the University
and, later, when lm went to practise at
Darwin, became noted as an all-round shot.
For the past 15 years he had been Darwin’s
leading legal light, and he left a host of
friends to mourn him.
“Mes Sines”: It isn’t quite correct that
Brigadier-General McNieoll was the first
A.I.F. officer to win the D.S.O. in the Great
War (B. 13/l/’B2). Four officers, McNieoll,
White, Brand and Denton, received the
award on the same date, April 25, 1915. If
there is any precedence, it may fairly be
claimed for General Brand, for the action
for which he was decorated took place
shortly after the actual landing. Denton
won his D.S.O. in the late afternoon and
McNieoll the same night. White’s award
came for general assistance as Chief of Staff
to General Bridges before and during the
landing.
In Charles B. Ividson, just dead in Perth,
the Westralian Leg. Assembly has lost its
oldest officer : he had been Sergeant-at-Arms
ever since the House started business in 1891
and had seen a baker’s dozen of Premiers
come and go. And for a few years before
responsible government arrived he held the
same job in the old Leg. Council, having
been appointed soon after his arrival from
England. He was a kindly, courtly soul,
who never had any trouble in escorting
unruly members to the door. His widow-
used to be a prolific verse-writer ; both sons
served in the war and one was killed on
Gallipoli.
[For any pars, which require a signature under the
Electoral Law, S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb and Jas.
Edmond, all of 252 George-street, Sydney, hold
themselves responsible.]


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. Oi'd. To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. 7 p.c. 10 p.c. serves. Reserves.
1920.. 135,302 7,000 100,000 25,8Q2 380,390
7i p.e.
1921.. 149,884 7,500 100,000 39,884 420,274
10 p.c.
1922.. 257,992 10,000 100,000 145,492 565,766
15 p.c. 15 p.c.
1923.. 253,811 15,000 150,000 86,311 652,077
1924.. 274,115 15,000 150,000 106,615 758,692
snare premiums, it 25,000 . . 783,692
1925.. 298,405 30,000 165,750 97,155 880,847
16J p.c. 16) p.c.
1926.. 410,260 32,500 284.375 93,385 974,232
171 p.c. 171 p.c.
1927.. 439,521 35,000 306,250 98,271 1,072,503
1928.. 445,920 35,000 306,250 104,670 1,177,173
1929.. 422,673 35,000 306,250 81,423 1,258,596
15 p.c. 15 p.c.
1930.. 332,395 30,000 202,509 39,895 1,298,491
Hi p.c. Hi p.c.
1931.. 240,992 22,500 196,875 21,617 1,320,108
Though the trade is reputed to hold well in
bad times, so great has been the drop in
the national income and the public’s spend-
ing that breweries have been caught in
the slump almost as badly as any
other business. Hotelkeepers have been
hit, too; thus, besides losing in direct
revenue, the breweries have had to specially
provide for bad debts, and losses on the
hotels thrown back on their hands. In the
C. and U. B.’s case there has also been
new and tierce competition from the Rich-
mond beer.
Following a drop of £86,106 in 1930, last
year tin- (1. and U. B.’s disclosed gross earn-
ings (£335,901) slipped a further £105,140,
making a slide of 38 p.c. since the 1928
term. Exes. (£94,910) were got back only
£13,737; thus the year’s net result
(£240,992) was £91,403 lower. On capital
it was equal to 12.3 p.c., compared with
17, 21.6, 22.8 and 22.5 p.c. back to 1927, and
3fJ p.c. was sliced off the div., reducing the
distribution to 11J p.c. Nevertheless, it was
still a handsome one, and indicates, since
visible accumulations appear at no more than
£520,108 in excess of the £BOO,OOO origin-
ally paid for goodwill, that the inner
strength is substantial.
The slump in hotel values gave the co.
a chance to secure more of the trade; the
opportunity was promptly taken—doubtless
with an eye on probable competition—as
these figures show :
1924. 1930. 1931.
Sundry creditors . . £168,078 £234,425 £171,520
Deposits 112,523 410 410
Mortgages . . . . 191,834 151,442
Brewery freeholds . . 103,393 266,832 255,839
Hotel freeholds' .. 126.486 587,317 611,154
Book debts, etc. . . 602,832 971,599 941,163
Stocks and excise stamps 201,027 299,350 256,715
Plant, etc 271,043 440,744 404,262
Leaseholds . . . . 8,621 8,242
Cash, investments, etc.. . 119,510 425,082 416,104
Over the last two years £222,058 more than
was wntten off has been spent on hotels
(£611,354).. The book-value of the brewery
freehold dropped £10.983 last term, and
plant, etc,, by £36,452, indicating that depre-
ciation has been allowed for in no half-
hearted way. The trade appears to have
needed more assistance lately; debtors
(£941,163) dropped only £30,436 last term,
after substantial rises in previous years.
Owing to the outlay on hotels, the more or
less liquid surplus was £80,065 lower at
£1,189,297 when the books last closed.
The immediate future is full of doubt,
depending largely on world price movements
for our staples, the seasons, government
finance and the trend of taxation. But when
better times come, though values may not
recover to pre-depression rates, the co.’s pre-
sent policy of tightening its grip on the trade
should make the position snug indeed. How-
ever, the final div. for the past term was at
the rate of 10 p.c., and no more than that
can be safely looked for during the current
one.
Public interest is confined to the six
listed holding cos., which transferred their
assets to the combine: the Melbourne Co-op.
has been quoted only since November. Here
is a summary of the position :
Holding Market Re-
Paid in Div. Price turn
Capital. C.U.B. p.c. Scrip, p.c.
Carlton ..£816,992 £631,704 101 30/- 7
Castleinaine 175,000 117,414 8.6 20/6 7 4
Foster . . 57,600 . 83,049 15} _L
Shamrock .. 78,525 83,049 12 28/6 8 4
McCracken’s 41,625 41,625 ill 31/fi 7 1
Melbourne
Co-op. .. 431,981 650,000 17.4 21/6 8.1
In proportion to those entitled to it the
£21.617 of profit not handed out by the
C.U.B. was equal to .86 p.c. on Carlton’s
capital; .74 p.c., Castlemaine ; 1.6 p.c. Foster •
1.2 p.c. Shamrock; 1.1 p.c. McCrackens; 1.6
p.c. Melbourne Co-op. The nominal reserves
of the combine were equal to 13s. 7d. per £1
of its own capital.
Bellambi Coal Co. (N.S.W.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, i lofit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923*. 19,241 10 p.c. = 13,333 5,908 5,90 S
1924.. 55,266 10 „ „ 40,000 15,266 21 174
1925.. 56,369 10 „,, 40,000 16,369 37!543
1926.. 41,119 7i„ „ 30,000 11,119 48,662
1927.. 56,194 10 „ „ 40,000 16,194 64,856
Profit on sale of assets, £6OOO .. 70 856
1928.. 40,450 10 p.c. = 40,000 450 71’306
1929.. 51,153 121 „ „ 50,000 1,153 72,459
Capital returned, £200,000
3 930.. 30,945 15 p.c. = 30,000 945 73,404
1931.. 22,506 10 „ „ 20,000 2,506 75,910
*Four months.
This co. owns one of the solidest colliery
propositions in the Commonwealth. The
mine is well equipped, bunkering connec-
tions are of tlie best, the co. has been blessed
with a careful and discerning management
and, so far, comparative freedom from
labor troubles. After taking over the South
Bulli colliery from Ebenezer Vickery about
■>l years ago, some handsome profits and
divs. were shown; nevertheless, enough had
enable the co. to hand out
xli 0,000 in bonus scrip over the last quarter-
century, and that was without straining
anything. Capital grew to £400.000 in this
way; the 1923 reconstruction was on a
share-for-share basis, but a 12s. 6d. per
share bonus was handed out in cash.
In 1929 the co. again became worried by
the accumulation of cash and securities at
the bank, so it was decided to return 10s.
per share in cash, reducing capital to
£200.000. That was during the fight on the
northern coalfields; while this stoppage was
on prices soared, and Bellambi and other
southern collieries made hay. From 10 p.c.
in 1928 the div. climbed to 121 p.c. in 1929
and then 15 p.c. in 1930. Last term, after
prolonged madness, work was resumed in
the North, and coal prices fell : Bellambi's
disclosed earnings dropped to 11.2 p.c. on
capital, compared with 15.4, 12.8 and 10.1
p.c. back to 1928. The div. was reduced to
10 p.c., and reserves figured at £75,910 when
the books closed.
The co. keeps its affairs as much to itself
as possible:—
. , 1923. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Liabilities.. . . £70,155 £72,600 £83,131 £64,302
Mine property,
steamers, invest-
ments, etc. .. 453,321 538,759 347,722 324,741
Book debts . . 32,878 31,304 16,381 17,896
Cash • • .. 3,197 4,997 7,432 7,575
The omnibus item includes mine, jetty, rail-
way, plant, freeholds, stocks and stores, and
investments. Out of this all the £200,000
of cash returned in 1929 was provided,
the book value showing a drop of £191,037.
Last year there was a further shrinkage of
£22,981. The falling-off in debtors gives an
idea of some of the present difficulties in
the industry. Shipping activity, both coastal
and overseas, has slipped considerably, while
most new ships built are motor-vessels or
oil-burners.
For the 10s. scrip, backed by 13s. 9d. in
net tangibles (an unknown portion of it in
a wasting asset), the market pays 9s. The
return is 11.2 p.c. so long as the 10 p.c.
continues.
Queensland Probate Insurance Co.
Ordinary Life Department.
Excess
Sept., Income. Claims. Exes. Income. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Promoters’ shares, preliminary exes., etc. 26,385
1923.. 7,319 Nil 12,888 31,954
Added establishment account, £10,149.. 42,103
1924.. 8,434 600 8,530 42,799
Added establishment account, £9892.. 52,691
1925.. 15,036 19 13,924 1093 51.59 S
Added establishment account, £14,386.. 65,984
1926.. 22,027 3909 15,211 2907 63,077
Added establishment account, £3452.. 66,529
1927.. 27,333 1394 19,807 6132 60,397
Added establishment account, £lBO.. 60,577
Transfer from Accident Dept., £3000.. ‘ 57,577
1928.. 38,536 2451 28,872 7213 50,364
Added establishment account, £4997 . . 55,361
1929.. 43,153 3587 28,393 11,173 44,188
Forfeited shares, £397 .. .. .. 43,791
1930.. 48,902 4897 33,172 10,833 32,958
Forfeited shares, etc., £lB9 . . . . 32,769
Written off assets, £22,428 .. .. 55,197
1931.. 46,239 7868 27,286 11,085 44,112
Just how this youngster stands will not be
known until the actuary’s report, due
shortly, is made available. It lias had a
hard struggle to develop a premium income
sufficient to cover exes, and growth in policy
liabilities; after showing an encouraging ex-
pansion in 1930, last year the co. found
the going very difficult, and the new busi-
ness put on the books fell £211,833:
1924. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Policies .. 325 1,159 1,473 1,147
Assuring . . £105,045 £476,341 £578,646 £366,813
First premiums 4,121 12,436 16,214 10,342
Renewal p r e-
miums .. 3,560 25,393 27,354 29,856
Single premiums 1,134
Exes., though reduced £5886, made off with
66 p.c. of the net premiums, as against
76.1, 75 and 86.1 p.c. in the three preced-
ing years. But, because of the heavy fall-
ing-off in policy-writing, the cost of gather-
ing new business (assuming that it costs
10 times as much to collect as old) mounted
to 204 p.c., compared with 175 p.c. in 1930.
In other words, the best part of three years’
premiums has to be gathered before anything
can be put by against the inevitable day
when policies will become claims.
The co. set up in 1922, specialising in
probate policies. Excessive competition has
retarded progress and kept costs up; thus,
at Sept.., 1930, £79,035 of the £153,123 of
paid capital was represented, by establish-
ment account. And that was putting the
best face on things; during the past term
£22,42S was written off assets (mainly,
agents’ balances), bringing the total intan-
gibles, including p. and 1. debit of the Acci-
dent department, up to £118,017. Further-
more, it is doubtful whether the life fund
covers policy liabilities. If it does not, then
more of shareholders’ capital has evaporated.
Assuming that the life fund does nearly
cover policy liabilities, there is still a fair
margin of security for policy-holders, though
the revaluation of the assets brought about
a big shrinkage. The protection is in this
form: —
1923. 1930. 1931.
Government securities.. £13,681 £63,334 £68,465
Mortgages, etc. .. 12,980 10,016
Loans on policies .. 2,103 3,171
Book debts .. .. 6,751 25,473 6,436
Cash, etc 1,746 5,448 1,178
Equipment, etc. . . 3,181 8,195 5,065
Freeholds 9,272 9,760
Total tangible assets .. £25,359 £126,805 £104,091
Sundry creditors . . 2,932 5,735 10,947
Net tangible assets . . £22,427 £121,070 £93,144
Life fund .. .. Nil 46,077 57,162
Paid capital .. . . 54,326 153,123 152,999
There is also £140,298 of uncalled capital,
but that is a dubious asset these times.
Last year 755 shares were forfeited.
The co., with other offices in its State,
receives a measure of protection inasmuch
as new life cos. will not be allowed n>
register in Queensland. But competition,
including that of the Government Insurance
Office, is very keen, and probate insurance
premiums are cut fine, as a rule. Renewals
(72 p.c. last year) have been fairly
satisfactory.
The Accident department has made a poor
showing ever since it began:—
Accident Department.
Re-
Sept., Income. Claims. Exes. Surplus, serves.
1923.. 163 10 98 55 55
1924.. 119 33 64 22 77
1925.. 96 15 53 28 105
1926.. 1,236 111 306 819 924
1927.. 5,853 1,027 1621 3,205 4,129
Written off establishment account, £3000.. 1,129
1928.. 11,528 4,371 3894 3,263 4,392
1929.. 25,980 19,712 5511 757 5,149
Loss.
1930. . 16,441 17,033 3652 4,244 905
Deficit.
1931.. 273 15,590* 1331 16,648 15,743
*lneludes £2590 returned premiums.
Activities had been concentrated on workers’
compensation business in N. S. Wales. It
has been an unsatisfactory class of risk with
most offices, and in February, 1931, tlie
Q. sold out this section to the British
Traders Co. But it was a disastrous year;
the loss (£10,648) meant that the net
result of the eight years’ operations has
been a deficit of £15,743, including £3OOO of
establishment exes.
There are 25,890 10s. S p.c. cum. prefs.,
fully paid, and 561,191 10s. ords., called to
5s each. Divs. are nowhere in sight; what
shareholders are most concerned about is
whether, upon publication of the actuary’s
report, they will be required to cough up
more capital.
R. Fowler, Ltd. (Sydney)
, —Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. 10 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1927.. 18,437 4000 8 p.c. = 16,631 16,136
Establishment exes, new factory, £1793.. 14,343
1928.. 3,258 4000 Nil _ 13,601
1929.. 8,779 4000 Nil 4779 18,380
Exes, capitalised, £457 .. .. ... 17,923
Loss. (5 p.c.)
1930.. 6,760 2000 Nil 9,163
Profit on sale of property, £923.. .. 10,086
_ Deficit.
1931.. 22,339 Nil Nil 12,253
Bricks, tiles and pottery—-the products
turned out by this co. at Marrickville and
Hornsby (N. S. Walds),' and Thomastown
( Vic.) —fluctuate in .demand according to
building activity. Owing to last , year’s col-
lapse in the construction trades turnover
fell off at a greater rate than costs could be
got down, and, though restrictions placed
on the importation of sanitary fireclay-ware
enabled the co. to develop this section of its
business considerably, the demand was still
comparatively poor. Thus, after taking
stock at £80o;J less than a year ago, a loss of
£22,339 showed up. Arrears on the prefs.
now amount to £6OOO. .
Plant is overvalued, though that cannot
be blamed for all the co.’s troubles. The
best result shown since the co. took over the
old business in 1919 was in 1924, when 11.7
p.c. on capital was shown. Since then
£65,000 of ord. scrip has been issued, and
the outside debt increased in order, to finance
additions to the Sydney tileworks, and erect
the Melbourne factory. In 1928, following
changes in control, special depreciation of
plant was charged against the year’s profit
in order to compensate for previous over-
optimistic profit-writing. But it was obviously
not enough; and since then trade slackness
and keen competition have not allowed the
co. .to repair the weakness out of profits. So
the board proposes to adjust the position by
writing down plant out of ord. capital, but
has deferred action until the slump runs its
course.
During the term the co. sold a freehold
at Mascot at a. profit of £923. The effect
of the transaction and the year’s loss show up
in balance-sheet figures
, . 1927. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital . . . . £265;622 £290,000 £290,000
Liabilities . . . . 52,263 95,023 90,397
Freehold and plant . . 223,743 256,666 246,644
Stocks .. . . . , 52,787 68,031 59,422-
Sundry debtors 39,405 34,602 27,365
Shares in other cos. .. 33,252 34,652 34,652
Cash, etc. '. . . . 61 334 60
Fixed • assets dropped £10,022; debtors
(£27,365, including £13,890 advanced to 11.
Fowler Vianini, Ltd.) were £7237 lighter.
The co. was’able to pay £4626 off the debt,
but because of the drain on finances during
the term, a more or less liquid surplus of
£7944 at the previous balance was changed
into an excess of liabilities amounting to
£3550. The pipe-making subsidiary, R.
Fowler . Vianini, Ltd., is still making losses
—£3025 was dropped last year. The shrink-
age of outlay on public and municipal works,
and strong competition, have made the out-
look for the subsidiary very gloomy.
Steady progress is said to have been made
in the manufacture of wall tiles, and several
railway contracts have been secured.
In September, T. Campbell, formerly of
YY underlichs’, took over the management.
But with several years of slackness in the
building trade ahead, and finances already
none too robust, the future looks full of
difficulty.
For the 10 p.c. prefs., covered by net
tangibles with a book value of £7 the
market pays 6s.' 9d. But the ords., backed
by no more than 19s. in the same cover are
speculated in at 2s. 6d.
The D.I.C.
All Maoriland knows the Drapery and
General Importing Co. of New Zealand, Ltd.,
by those initials.
, Dividends Bonus
a „ £ ref - to Share- Re-
Aug., Profits. 6 p.c. Ord. holders, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1920.. 37.166 7,950 10 p.c. = 11,766 1,126 113 438
Transferred to capital, £59,000 .. .. 54 438
Premiums on new shares, £6O .. .. 54,’49s
k°ss. To Reserves.
1921.. 5,314 14,784 Nil 34400
Reserve additions, £lO9 .. .. .. 34’509
Profit.
1922. .19,242 15,000 5 pic. = 8,855 29,896
Premiums on new shares, £H .. .. 29 907
1923.. 37.785 15,000 7 p.c. = 12,405 10,380 40j287
Reserve additions, £149 .. .. .. 40436
1924.. 42.823 15,000 9 p.c. = 15,977 11,846 52’, 282
1925.. 51.155 15,000 10 „ „ 17,781 18,374 70,656
Premiums on new shares, £6B .. .. 70 724
1926.. 48.982 15,000 10 p.c. = 17,802 16,180 86’904
1927. 15,000 10 „ 17,827 14,078 100 98^
1928. .42,790 15,000 10 „ „ 17,852 9,938 110,’920
Profit on sale investments, £2580.. .. 113V>00
1929.. 45.027 15,000 10 p.c. = 17,878 12,149 125 649
1930.. 37.447 15,000 10 „ ~ 17,918 4 529 130 178
1931. .19,371 15,000 5 „ „ 8,976 125,573
The slump caught the D.I.C. at a bad time ;
its new seven-storeyed premises in Welling-
ton, with frontages to three streets, had not
long been completed, and the co. went fairly
deeply into debt to finance the outlay.
Whether the outside assistance has been
interest-bearing or just extension of trade
credit is not clear, though all but a small
part of the total is labelled “sundry credi-
tors.” In any case, though shareholders
were not asked for any fresh capital, it is
not easy to earn dividends on new bricks
and mortar these days. Indeed, in the Com-
monwealth, large outlay on premises in boom
periods has often completely changed the
outlook for hitherto prosperous retailers.
For the term, to August last, after taking
stock at £4098 higher, the D.l.C.’s gross
profit (£255,672) fell away £40,175; exes.
(£236.444) were curtailed by only £21,955,
and thus, allowing for reserve' adjustments,
the net result (£19,371) slipped £18,076.
After handing the profs, their 6 p.c., surplus
earnings were equal to no more than 2.4 p.c.
on ord. capital, compared with 12.5, 17.9
and 19.1 p.c. back to 1927. However, in
order to hand the ords. 5 p.c. (compared
with a regular 10 p.c. in the preceding six
years) the board did not hesitate to draw
on reserves for £4605. Shareholders received
their usual 21 p.c. bonus on purchases dur-
ing the year.
It is a rather unusual position. Out of
a capital of £429,564, £250,000 (more than
half) is in 6 p.c. prefs. When assets were
earning their keep and a bit more, this cheap
pref. money meant good returns for the
ords.; but last year, when disclosed earnings
were only 4.5 p.c. on total capital, the
balance of the prefs.’ 6 p.c. had to be made
up at the other shareholders’ expense.
Changes in the financial position are
shown in this table:—
. 1920. 1927. 1930. 1931.
Pref. capital. . £230,795 £250,000 £250,Q00 £250,000
Ord. capital.. 117,792 178,337 179,337 179,564
Liabilities .. 215,707 99,326 285,700 280,271
Premises, plant, . • ,
..etc.. .. 134,834 226,954 587,393 574,167
Stocks .. 298,073 213,287 180,944 185,042
Book debts .. 91,801 80,344 99,350 86,435
Investments and
cash . . 176,115 133,386 6,046 6,241
There have also been alterations and addi-
tions to premises at headquarters (Dun-
edin), Christchurch and Wanganui. During
the three years to 1930 £360,439 was added
to the book value of freeholds; last term
the item (£574,167) dropped £13,226, show-
ing that depreciation has not been, neglected.
Whereas there was a surplus of more or less
liquids amounting to £327,691 over liabili-
ties in 1927, outside obligations now exceed
liquids by £2553. ‘For a while at any rate
the co. looks like losing the advantages that
go to the trader with ready eash.
The general trading outlook in Maoriland
has not substantially improved. Thus the
market, which priced the co.’s 10s. ords. at
20s. a year ago, now pays 125., at which
figure the return is 4.1 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis. The backing for this scrip amounts
to 175.; for the pound prefs., which ‘enjoy
priority as to capital, the cover is £2 4s.
sd. The prefs. are at par on the market.
Warrnambool Woollen Mill Co. (Vic.)
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 18,716 15 p.e.= 14,695 4,021 65,531
Written off, £lO,OOO .. .. 55,531
1923.. 15,213 12p.c.= 16,417 54,327
Premiums on new shares 2,144 56,471
Pref. Ord.
1924.. 6,867 5 p.c. 4 p.c. = 6,206 661 57,132
Loss.
1925.. 20,308 5 „ Nil 1,032 - 35,792
Profit.
1926.. 9,434 5 „24 p.c. = 4,266 5,148 40,940
1927.. 16,368 7 „ 7 „ „ 10,500 5,868 46,808
1928.. 666 5 „ Nil 1,032 46,442
1929.. 1,032 5 „ Nil 1,032 46,442
Written off assets, £27,474 .. 18,968
Loss.
1930.. 5,962 5 p.c. Nil 1,032 - 11,974
Profit.
1931.. 1,807 5 p.c. Nil 1,032 775 12,749
Following a heavy slump in 1930, the mill
became comparatively busy and sales
(£89,110) improved £16,887 during the term
to Sept. 30 last. After taking manufactured
goods into account at £12,433 lower, gross
profit (£14,363) improved £8472; exes,
were £37 lighter, while sundry income im-
proved £32. Thus the final result was a
profit of £lBO7, compared with a loss of
£5962 in the previous term. The prefs.
were paid, but -the ords. went hungry for the
fourth successive year.
Figures for the last two years are pro-
bably not a bit better than they look; no
depreciation was charged in either term. Still,
in 1930 a share premiums reserve of £27,474,
built up in more prosperous time's, was
written off fixed assets; and that brought
figures more into line with present values.
But it was not expected that profits would
benefit much as a result, because the average
allowance for depreciation during the three
preceding years had been no more than £2OOO
p.a.
New plant is wanted, and reorganisation
of the undertaking has been mentioned, but
no finality reached. There was also talk of
“drastic rationalisation or amalgamation to
meet existing economic conditions,” but the
widely-scattered nature of Vic.’s provincial
woollen mills is the difficulty. The co.’s early
history was encouraging; it made a prom-
ising start over 20 years ago, and under war-
time protection the business bounded ahead.
Good divs. were paid, the average for the
decade to 1923 being 10.6 p.c. During the
same period over £120.000 was added to
capital, making it £150,000, at which figure
it still stands. A slump in wool prices six
years ago brought about the co.’s first
reverse; since then it has never been out
of trouble. Most of the present plant was
bought in 1922-23, when textile machinery
was at a very high figure.
Recent balance-sheet, movements reflect the
writing-down of assets ;
1924. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Capital .. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 91,140 13,409 18,643 7,947
Freehold and
buildings .. 34,408 36,842 31,848 31,846
Plant and
machinery.. 126,938 122,932 101,531 102,208
Stock . . 127,678 44,545 44,197 28,005
Sundry debtors 10,654 9,665 5,417 12,190
Other assets.. 4,901 4,416 3,680 3,238
Last year the more or less liquid surplus
improved £1133 to £35,486. Stocks (£18,608)
(Continued on. jxige 16.)


IS IS u
0,
I
e
mimmM
m mim
Wm
MM
WMm.
mm
mm
mm
%MWW.
wmmz
mm
'
f
is*
wm
X;lv.
mm ..•
mm
wm.
mm.
SSS
«8»
w
ass;
.-, •
.
□
'etter
Ifobacco
Birginia leaf, matured
ed with knowledge and
Country Life cigarettes
/ different flavour and
he blend is definitely
lable to any other
er.
é
fetter
Qflade
Take a Country Life in your fingers.
Feel how firmly it is rolled —how
round and even —how perfectly
the cork-tip is mounted. Now light
the cigarette. Note how easily it
draws how cool the smoke.
Distinctly a better-made cigarette.
0
fetter
packed
Tobacco is most sensitive to atmos-
phere. So Country Lifes are
wrapped first in tissue, then in
tinfoil; next into a sturdy tin or
packet and over all an outer air-
tight wrapper. That’s why Country
Lifes always reach you as fresh,
firm and well-conditioned as
they left the factory.
*
CORK—TIPPED VIRGINIA
CIGAR ETTE S
V & 14
Made in Your Own Country at the Garden Factory-Raleigh Park-by W. D. & H. O. Wills (Australia) Ltd.
2.8Z3
And in Tins of 50, 100 and 150.
Also 50s, Round Airtight Tins.


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth
Griffith. Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Street! Sydney
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents--An™
* * *
Ideas.— Commonwealth and Foreie-n
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searohef, opinions"
advice. Davies A Collison, 483 Collins Street’
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies MSr
Collison and Co. (Molb.). —Advt ’ ' and
*** ' *
Corrosion is the arch enemy of metal pipe, which
reduces the carrying capacity and eventually destroys
it. Pioneer Mood Pipe is absolutely non-corrosive
and carries a full bore of water throughout Tts We’
This means long trouble-free service at practically
no upkeep cost, for, in addition to being non-corrosive
Pioneer Wood Pipe is light, strong and durable’
easily handled and installed at a minimum of cost’
This excellent conduit has proved its remarkable
efficiency on many important installations. Remember
too, that Pioneer Wood Pipe costs considerably less
than metal pipe. Full particulars gladly furnished
on application to The Australian Wood Pipe Co
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove (near Figtree
Bridge)N.fe.M .; and at Footscray, Victoria. —Advt.
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Mire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; ,1. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
A thin time for them
—or a happy future?
m
Y
The A.M.P. can sell you
peace of mind!
iEACE of mind is an unusual offering, but that is exactly what
the A.M.P. provides for its members.
Many a man battles along through life loaded with the
anxiety of his family s future, when he could provide for that
future (and banish worry) by the simple process of becoming a
member of the A.M.P. Society.
an ac * case: A farmer in the Tamworth district
(N.S.W.) married in 1892. He met his responsibility to his
bride by investing a pound a week (£58/16/8 a year to be
exact) in an A.M.P. policy for £2000. That policy provided
protection for his wife and peace of mind for himself over a
long period. He lived a happy, care-free life until early this
year, when his wife, son and daughter received £3829 on this
policy alone.
We say on this policy alone because so delighted was this
member with the way the policy grew in value that, as his pros-
perity increased (a product of his peace of mind), he took out
other policies that grew, with bonus additions, to comforting size.
An A.M.P. policy provides immediate protection. The day
tne first premium is paid a man s residual estate is established.
Any man can win peace of mind this way. Ask the nearest
A.M.l . office to send an experienced officer to talk it over with
you, or, if you prefer, full particulars by post.
SEND THIS COUPON FOR PARTICULARS.
To the AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Re this peace of mind that you write about. I am
years of age. Let me have your suggestions for securing it.'
mainly represent orders not yet delivered;
stores and raw materials figure at £9397.
The scrip is listed in Melbourne, but Is
held mainly in provincial towns. The 5 p.c.
cum. par. prefs. are backed by £7 17s. 7d.
in net tangibles (book value) ; the ords. are
covered by 21s. lid. on the same basis.
At the Vulcan mine, Cloncurry (Q.),
where the Murdoch process of acid-leaching
oxidised copper ore is in operation, it
was found necessary to change from dry
to wet crushing to obviate heavy dust losses.
This made the fines sticky, and difficulties
have followed in grading the ore and charg-
ing the leaching vats. The estimated re-
covery of 97 p.c. has not been obtained, but
the management is hopeful of righting
things. There are 250,000 tons of 5 p.c.
copper ore available for treatment; the cost
was estimated at £39 per ton of copper, so
success will depend on a big lift in the
price of the red metal.
* * * *
“Cuzinjan” : North Broken Hill’s new sur-
face equipment and mill (B. 30/12/ n; t
shows what Australian enterprise can do.
The all-steel headframe, which is 120 ft. high,
now being erected at the new shaft, was pro-
vided by Goninans, of Newcastle, as well as
the skips and cages. The 36in. x 24in. jaw
crusher, which reduces the crude ore at the
first stage, the 1000 ft. 24in. conveyor that
delivers the crushed ore to the mill storage
bins, the four sets of 36in. x ISin. slow speed
rolls, the Weir-Meredith screens, and the
four 4Sin. x Bft. fine-grinding tube mills, are
all of Australian manufacture. The nine
flotation boxes are of a type specially
developed at the North. Wilfley pumps,
made here under license, will be used ex :
tensively for raising ore pulps. The mill is
expected to be in operation by the end of
Juno, 1932, and the winders a month later.
S= * *
‘•Exray”: At Great Bear Lake (Canada),
the common radium-bearing mineral pitch-
blende has been found in prominent outcrops
extending for over two miles. Two- veins aver-
aging 14in. wide have so far been opened up.
No. 2 vein, which has been proved by trenching
to be continuous over a length of 1000 ft., has
been sampled by the Canadian Mines Depart-
ment and has given assays up to 132 milli-
grammes of radium per ton. With radium at
its present price of £lO,OOO per gramme
,such ore is worth gross no less than £l3OO
per ton. No. 1 vein shows 112 milligrammes
per ton. The trial parcel of high-grade
screened ore from the Mt. Painter deposits in
South Aus. recently assayed 40 milligrammes
radium per ton. This radium occurs in the
uranium minerals autunite and torbernite,
each 1 p.c. uranium oxide is equivalent
to 3 milligrammes radium per ton. Near
Olary, on the B.H. line, earnotitc, a radium-
bearing mineral, is found as a yellow in-
crustation on ironstone, while at Moonta
both pitchblende and autunite have been
found in small quantities.
* =l= *
The world supply and price of radium
metal is controlled by Union Minere. the
largest copper-producer in the world, which
operates mines in Katanga, Belgian Congo.
From an output of 20 grammes metal in
3925, production has grown to GO grammes
in 3930, which is also the estimated output
for 1933. Important radium deposits exist
also at Ferghana (Russia). Joachimsthral
(Czechoslovakia), Colorado (U.S.A.) and in
Cornwall. The demand for the metal for the
treatment of cancer is growing rapidly.
* * !'! * '
Alluvial goldmining in Maoriland has
brightened up considerably. The Rimu Com-
panv’s newly-installed all-steel dredge at
Hokitika is working satisfactorily, and
dredging costs are below the figure 'of 7VI.
obtained with the wooden dredge. Sufficient
ground of the right grade is available for
20 years yet. The Okarito Gold Dredging
started its dredge last June, and up to the
beginning of October, the end of the financial
term, got 10300 z., an average of 68oz.
weekly. The profit was £2172. For the four
weeks ended Nov. 3,2710 z. was won for
480 hours’ dredging. Awatuna Extended is
building a large dredge on its valuable pro-
perty at Hokitika, whilst Nokomai Gold
plans to work, by drag-line scraper, the
alluvial of the Mataura River, Central
Otago. The plant is to treat 500,000 yards
per annum. In 190 G there were no less than
167 dredges in Maoriland, and their suc-
cess in digging deep wash was responsible
for the establishment of Malaya’s tin-dredg-
ing industry. Of late years only five dredges
have been, in operation, the value of their
combined output being £60.000 annually.
* * * *
Westralian gold-producers divided over
£SOO,OOO in premium last year. Perth Mint
distributed most; the remainder was paid in
London to those who sent the minted pro-
ceeds of their outputs there for realisation.
Premium paid for the last quarter of the
year accounted for nearly half the total.
Britain going off the gold standard was the
reason for this.
* * * *
In order to take fall advantage of the
high price of gold while it lasts, Golden
Horseshoe (W.A.) has concentrated sluicing
operations upon the higher-grade portions of
its mountainous heap of Kalgoorlie residues,
and profits are soaring. With wliat is in
hand and what is expected to come in, the
directors hope that by the end of this year
the whole of the issued capital will be repre-
sented by liquid assets. But there are some
unadjusted claims against the co. in respect
of taxation which may throw these esti-
mates out.
* * * *
Lake View (W.A.) is cancelling some tri-
butes and confining others to blocks which
it doesn’t like tackling on its own account.
There are a number of such blocks in Lake
View’s holdings, and for some time past the
co.’s profits have been swollen and are still
being aided by royalties on returns of tri-
butors working them.
* * * *
Associated Mining and Finance Co., which
in 3925 acquired the old Westralian Asso-
ciated Co.’s Canadian interests and a wad
of shares in its successor, Associated (New)
W.A., has just issued another annual report.
Receipts, principally share sales and pro-
fits on investments, amount to £2547. while
exes, total £2663. The co. added Wilunas
to its holdings some time ago, and at pre-
sent its investments have a written-down book
value of £263,000. None appear to foe pay-
ing divs., but some are tipped to do so by-
and-bye.
* * * *
New Red, White and Blue, at Bendigo, is
increasing its 20-head stamp battery to 30-
head, and has bought a gyratory crusher to
feed the stamps. This additional plant will be
in operation by next March, and the mill
will then have a capacity of 450 tons weekly
—at present 300 tons is being milled, of
which 100 tons is from tributors. The newly-
purchased electric pump is now installed
at 800 ft., and operations are confined to
spurs on and above the 756 ft. level. Later
it is proposed to lower the pump to 2400 ft.
and let the tributors have a go at the bottom
levels. For 1931 the company recovered
24170 z., and just kept its head above water.
='= * * s|:
Langi Logan, in the long-ago a famous
deep alluvial lead at Ararat (Vie.), is
again attracting attention, and a 2000-acre
lease has been pegged out on the proved
10-mile run. It is intended to float a com-
pany to work the lease, and some of the
money is being sought in London. In its
first year the lead turned out 30,0000 z. of
heavy gold, and that average was maintained
for the next four. The Original mine bottomed
on 30dwt. values, and averaged over an
ounce. Some of the shafts are down 300 ft..
and the levels are in, giving lots of ground
to work on any part of the lead.
* * * *
Answering shareholders’ questions at Aus-
tralian Roma Oil’s meeting in Sydney last
week. Dr. Jensen said he favored the chances
of the Roma district as against Longreach.
Far more investigations Iyd been carried out
at Roma, and the data acquired was more
complere than that on any other field in
Australia. In his opinion a geological survey
might help to clear matters at Longreach.
but the lack of definite formation made
prospecting there very much a matter of
chance. Indications pointed to Mooga as
probabjy being the first bore to strike pri-
mary Ji.il sands at Roma ; Jensen also tips
that the Wallumbilla anticline will show pri-
mary oil sands at a shallower depth.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Queensland Forests, Ltd., are asking for
£2 extra on every bond for earlier market-
ing. Do you advise me to pay it? —79B7.
Certainly not. You have already paid
all you should. A return to you of some of
your bond-money w r ould seem a more reason-
able suggestion, since the co.’s maintenance
obligations will be proportionately reduced.
Section 7 of the conditions printed on bonds
issued in Series “C” .says: “All costs,
charges and expenses paid or incurred by the
company in connection with the sale, realisa-
tion. marketing and conversion of the timber
produce.... shall be paid or deducted from
the gross proceeds thereof, and until such
payment thereof shall be charged upon such
proceeds.” The co., incidentally, is entitled
to 5 p.c. of the gross proceeds. The point
is this: If the timber is going to be realised
at a profit, there should be no need for levy-
ing the extra £2. If. on the other hand,
it is going to be sold at a loss, you obviously
don’t want to throw good money after bad.
(1) Can a call be made on shareholders
of the Primary Producers' Bank novo that
it is in liquidation? (2) If so, to what
amount on each share? (3) To what amount
at each ca11? —7932.
(1) Yes. (2) To the extent of the co.’s
liabilities after the present assets have been
exhausted, and for the costs of the winding-
up, but the liability is limited to £4 per
share. (3) Rests with the liquidator or the
Court; if calls become necessary, easy
terms would probably be arranged in cases
of hardship.
(1) Uses of felspar? (2) Annual Austra-
lian production? (3) Price? (4) Likely
buyers or firms who would undertake the
marketing of the mineral in quantity? —
7751.
(1) As a flux for clay in the pottery in-
dustry, and in the preparation of glazes' and
metal enamels. Also as an abrasive in
polishing powders and preparations where
harder materials are objectionable through
the scratches which they produce. (2)
Latest statistics for all are for 1929, when
78 tons were produced. (3) The value of
the 7S tons mentioned was stated, for statis-
tical purposes, to be £214. Price obtainable
depends upon quality and use. The felspar
used as an abrasive must be free from
quartz, but a small percentage of quartz is
not objectionable in felspar used in tin; pot-
tery industry, where, however, freedom from
iron is essential, since the fused felspar
should be perfectly white. (4) Manufactur-
ers of pottery and enamel ware may pur-
chase the felspar as it is broken from the
mine if they have their own machinery for
grinding it. Otherwise it may be necessary
to have it ground in some form of tube mill
which has no iron grinding surfaces, lest
the product be impaired. Inquiry at the
Departments of Mines in each State will
result in information as to where grinding
can be performed. The Bon Ami Co. of
Australia, Ltd., of Pretoria and Brennan
streets, Leichhardt (N.S.W.), buys high-
grade felspar free from quartz. Other firms
that may be interested are Minerals, Ltd.. 17
Currie-street, Adelaide; Austral Rock Mill-
ing ,Co., Gladstone-street, Newtown
(N.S.W.) ; and Mead and Co., 26 Currie-
street. Adelaide.
(1) What is the metal cobalt worth? (2)
Is there a regular market for it, and where?
(3) What, percentage yield would be re-
quired to make a mine pay? —76o6.
(1) Present price for metal about 9s. 6d.
per pound in London. (2) There is a regu-
lar market for regular producers, but con-
sumers are disinclined to purchase spas-
modic production. (3) Depends entirely
upon local conditions, i.e., whether fuel and
water are handy, and whether the ore body
can be cheaply mined and the ore cheaply
concentrated. Send details to Frank Flam-
bridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney, and he will
advise you.
(1) Where is alluvial gold being won in
Queensland? (2) Best reef country in same
State? (3) Sinking depths in Queensland
alluvial country? —7(s93.
(1) The only fields where any quantity
of alluvial gold is being won are Clermont
and the Batavia. (21 For small parties
or individuals, probably Charters Towers.
(3) At .Clermont present workings do not
much exceed 20ft. In the past some of the
leads have been followed down to 200 ft. At
the Batavia the deepest workings have bot-
tomed at 70ft.
(1) Approximate cost to patent a mechani-
cal invention throughout the world? (2)
Cost of floating a co. for putting proposi-
tion before British interests? Nominal capi-
tal, fIo.OOO-f25.000. (3) Would a co. pro-
moter take shares in lieu of cash? (4)
Procedure ? —7757.
(1) Depends on what is meant by
“throughout the world.” Application has to
be made separately in each country in which
patent protection is sought. To apply in,
say, 25 of the principal countries would cost
from £BOO to £lOOO, according to countries
selected, length of specification (with conse-
quent costs of translation for foreign coun-
tries) and the drawings required. (2) and
(3) Depends on many factors. (4) First
consult one of the firms advertising on this
page ; they are reputable.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.W.8.: Seems one of the best gold-
mining speculations on the list; but don’t forget
that it is still a spec H.W.: Don’t advise it.
. ...A.G.G.: We do not know; it is a private co.
.... Jack W.: What is a good purchase for one
person may be bad for another; largely depends on
the risks the purchaser can afford or is willing to
take. Stock named may show large profits- hot
? eI .T“ se •• MOR - T »«


Mining Machinery of Modern Design and Construction
■
a
N
mm
0*
.
wm
i
§H
m
0
.
P
■
m
ma
P
>;
Ji
P
ill
mm
4
U
m
■
m
P
ns
ISli i
■
*
IS
n
8
MUS
Wm
m
§|§§
m
V - • ! ; "
‘L* .v .. - ■ ■‘%sv -~>iggg»
36in. x 24in. RUWOLT Heavy Duty Ore Breaker, as
supplied to Broken Hill South and North Mines respectively.
Constructed of steel throughout and fitted with automatic
lubrication. Weight, 30 tons.
PATENTED EQUIPMENT
We are the Sole Licensees in Australia
for the Manufacture of
“WILFLEY”
SAND AND GRAVEL
PUMPS
“FAHRENWALD”
FLOTATION UNITS
Either of these Units is indispensable
for Modern Mining Plants.
“RUWOLT”
PORTABLE
MILLING PLANTS
to handle crude ore for
Small Mines
Pilot Plants
and Prospectors
Made in three sizes.
Capacity: Half-ton to Three Tons per
hour respectively.
The Crusher illustrated is a good example of the class of high-grade work that we are continually producing. °" r r eX ,
resources for, the design and manufacture of any type of machinery required for the CRUSHING, MILLING, DRESSING and
TREATMENT OF ORE are unequalled, and we will be glad to submit designs and quotations for suitable Plant on receipt ot inquiries.
CHARLES RUWOLT PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Victoria Street, Richmond (Melbourne), Victoria, Australia.
NATIVE BEERS!
m
a
'& M/it;
id.
&S£r» - V 3 - V ;
;w;
7 f ,*;
vw?ty.
*
&r.
M
"kkem/nr*
ft Mi
m
m
Once upon
a time there
were 3 Beers
Father’s Beer,
Mother’s Beer,
and Grandpa’s Beer.
The “once upon a time” has become “now ” —and the
beer for three has become the beer for all Australians.
TOOHEYS
Pilstatr
"U, « /fCW LIGHT LAG £6
is WITH THE YELLOW LABEL
IOOMEYS
S&T;
\\ ' J
s&


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s (com. Saturday) “The Merry Widow’’
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Sinbad the Sailor” Pantomime
King’s “As Husbands Go”
State Movies'and Talkies
The Howler: or Modern Ghosts.
(With apologies to De Maupassant.)
January 1. —I had a nervous breakdown a
few days ago and the doctor tells me I
shall be confined to the house for some weeks.
An artist having borrowed both my Shaks-
pearc and Rabelais, arid the Customs hav-
ing prevented all readable books from enter-
ing the country, I was at first at a loss for
occupation. Then I thought Of my wireless.
Of course, I have a wireless. It was in
the house when I bought it, furnished. It
is a super-cigar-box, two-valve, oxy-acety-
lene, incoherent non-receiver. I placed the
earphones on my head, but, although, accord-
ing to the papers, seventeen stations were
“The silence seems some-
how ominous.”
operating, I
heard nothing.
The silence
somehow
seems omi-
nous. Is it a
warning?
January 4.
—I am still in
doubt aboil t
the wireless.
Ought I to
meddle with it
or oughtn’t I?
I have had a
great deal of
trouble in my
life and, now
—well, peace
has descended
on me....
Still, I see
that there are
no fewer than 250,000 people in tne country
who have taken the risk. .. . I’ll leave it
for a day or two.
January 5.—1 have ’phoned the village
saddler, who has marched with the times
and is our local wireless authority. He is
coming up immediately in his five-ton truck
to look into the matter... . The saddler has
come and gone. It appears that the last
tenant omitted to switch off the batteries.
The saddler says the A and B batteries are
run down, though they look quite fresh
and bright to me. He is going to fetch new
ones and will be back in a few minutes.
One can’t help feeling. proud at living in
an age whose first principle is Service.
January 5, afternoon.—The saddler has
come and gone again. He has supplemented
the headphones with a loud speaker. I can
use each—or neither. He gave the loud
speaker a trial run, I said I didn’t know
it would be like that. H'e said I was not to
“Our local wireless
authority."
be discouraged; I
would get used to it.
I wonder!
January 7.—This
morning I have
placed an easy chair
beside the wireless,
put some cushions
behind my head and
laid my feet on the
window-sill. Out of
the window I can
see the valley of the
Yarra. winding to-
wards Wjirrandyte
and the distant Dan-
denongs. The .weep-
ing willows are a
green mist along the
river bank at pre-
sent. The black
wattle is over, but
the swamp gums, which have survived
the Board of Works beautification scheme,
are bronzy on top and match the rud-
diness of the Heidelberg gasometers.
Thus, with Nature spreading its fairest
feast for the eye before me I am in
the right mood to assimilate the feast for
the mind which the papers assure me 3LO,
3AR, 3UZ, 3DB and 3KZ are only too
anxious to feed into my ear. Presently I
shall turn on the loud speaker.
January 10. —My mind is still in too great
a state of confusion for me to say what I
think. At first I thought that either I was
mad or they were. My wife tells me not
to be impatient. She points out that wire-
less is definitely described by large numbers
of reputable people, amongst them dealers
in radio apparatus, as a form of entertain-
ment. It may be that I am too old-
fashioned. It is the fate, my wife says, of
all new and noble efforts ‘to uplift ’the
people that they should incur the hostility
of diehard conservatives, Tory reactionaries
and people with axes to grind. (Stand by
for the 3 p.m. chimes from the Town Hall.)
Consider, she says, what happened to Galileo,
who said that the world was round or fiat
or something. (While we are waiting to
switch over to the Caulfield racecourse
Miss Susan
Watercress will
sing “My Canary
Has Circles
Under Its Eyes.”)
January 12. —
I feel stronger
to-day. lam de-
termined to have
another go. After
all, the thing is
new and raw. I
mustn’t be intol-
erant. My wife
says millions of
people listen-in
daily, and it
doesn’t seem to
do th e m any
harm. In fact,
they say they like
it. They can’t
“I said I didn’t know
it would be like that.”
be all wrong, can they? I’ll try again to-
day at 12. Or perhaps it will be better if
I tried at 2. I feel more confident after a
good dinner. And I’ll only take it in .small
goes.
2 p.m.—l took a stiff brandy and soda
and now have the headphones on. It doesn’t
seem as bad as I anticipated.
My baby don’t care for silver,
„ >, ~ „ *, gold,
~ ~ ~ „ „ these, . you see,
~ „ „ „ ~ silks and laces,
~ » ~ ~ ~ going places,
„ „ ~ „ ~ rings
~ „ ~ ~ „ any such things,
~ „ only cares for me.
It looks a bit queer written down like
that, but somehow or other it does get one
when George . Sor-
ley sings it the
way he does. After
all, one man’s
taste may be as
good as another’s.
1 mustn’t be too
.sniffish. Still, I
won’t rush my
fences. I’ll switch
it off now and try
again to-morrow
before breakfast.
January 13. —
After all, perhaps
Mary was right.
There’s something
about this wireless
that does take one
out of one’s self.
Ta-ra-ra-ra-ra. I’m
dancing with tears
in my eyes ’Cause
the girl in my
“So the night wears
on."
arms isn’t yew, Dancing with somebody new
When it’s yew that my heart’s calling to.
Trying to smile, Once in a while, But I
find it so hard to do. Ta-ra-ra-ra-ra.
January 15.—1 am now a confirmed
listener-in. Immediately on rising I rush
to the headphones and hearken to the breezy
gentleman at 3LO putting the tang of the
salt sea into the 7 a.m. shipping news while
my hot bath is preparing. I mentally carry
out the instructions of the same gentleman
when he puts the nation through its physical
drill to music at 7.3 a.m. My children?
They are ghosts. But I am one and indis-
soluble with Arnold Colman at the Wu>
litzer. I know the joy of singing “Ole Man
River” communally with 3000 of my fellow
mortals at the Auditorium. Daily I experi-
ence the sense of power which comes when
one switches over from the middle of the
first movement of Brahms’s quartet in F
major to George Sorley singing “I’m a
Dreamer Aren’t we all. Just a dreamer
Aren’t we all In my dreams At night it seems
My sweetheart comes to call.” Then, just
for fun, back to silly old Brahms again for
a couple of bars and then Sorley onci> more:
“She’s so" charming spare and tall It,’s
alarming how I fall She’s divine and yet she
can’t be mine For she’s a dream But aren’t
we all.”
January 16. —I had a row with Mary to-
day, and it spoilt the midday session. I
said itwould be better for the children’s
health if they were put to bed as soon as
they came home from school. She said it
was sheer selfishness. She said I only
wanted not to be disturbed when I was
listening in to Uncle Joe. _ I lost my temper,
I am sorry to say, and said things that I’m
afraid I will be sorry for.
January 17. —The long day wrnnes, the
slow moon climbs, the deep moans round
with many voices... .An apparition appears
before me. What is it? It raises its eye-
brows in inquiry. Where have I seen some-
thing like it before? I remember. It is
my wife. She wants to know'if I will have
my dinner, “If I had a talking pictcher
of yew I would run it every time I felt
blew I would give ten shows a day.” I
nod my head briefly. “And a midnight
“ Doesn’t seem to do
them any harm."
matinee.” The
apparition dis-
appears, shortly
returning push-
ing a dinner
waggon before
it. “To have a
talking pitcher
of yew.” I eat
my evening-
meal silently
with the head-
phones on.
That was
George Sorley
just now. I
like George. He
is a good chap.
I like him better than John Turner, the
tenor. I have knelt in the Mighty Temples
and the gods have given no sign; they talk
to mrc of their Heavenly Pleasures, but the
True Nirvana is to be found in thy loving-
arms. Bit too solemn, John!
So the evening wears on. The queen of
piglit is scattering her silver on the blue-
gum in my garden. What of that? Connu-
biality? It has no significance. Breathing
a prayer of thanksgiving to .the broadcasting-
companies whose self-sacrificing devotion to
the highest intellectual ideals has enabled
me to share in this great movement of the
nation onward and upward, I fall asleep
in the arms of BAR.
January 18. —It is a pity Mary is so un-
reasonable. The scene she'made just now
when I suggested that she should take the
sewing-machine into the kitchen completely
upset my enjoyment of the evening session.
She said she was making pyjamas for me.
What are pyjamas to me or me to Hecuba?
Is that a quotation or is it the title of Sor-
ley’s latest .song-hit?
January 21. —A most unpleasant incident
happened this morning. Mary showed in
two strange gentlemen and our family
doctor. They insisted on submitting me to
the indignity of a medical examination. They
all looked grave, shook their heads and whis-
pered to Mary. I caught something" of what
they said. They said they would come back
to-morrow to take me away. What for,-
I wonder? I’ve paid my subscription,
haven’t I? Or is it a plot on Mary’s part
to get me out of the way so that she can
have George Sorley to herself? Never mind,
I will get the better of them yet.
January 23. —They tqok me away yester-
day in a van or ambulance or something of
the sort. Anyhow, it was a conveyance like
a tomb. I struggled violently before they
got me inside, but I had to submit, I was
feeling so weak.
Undated.—Mv new place of residence is
a small room. It has curiously-padded walls.
The door is always closed, and I have tried
it—it is locked. What for? I don't want
to leave. They have taken away my wire-
less set, but ha, ha! they can’t take away
my brain. Did Beethoven stop composing
music when he went stone-deaf? He did
not. He heard with his inward ear. I
am listening to George Sorley with my mind.
My subconscious is craving for you. Crav-
ing for you in dreams For whatever their
themes And however it seems That their
suhject redeems Them from amorous dreams
They mean that I have You.
Ha, ha! They can’t take George from
me. Good old George !
While all the great exponents of the fiddle,
legendary and liistorical, have been men
there is one thing a man cannot get from the
instrument so perfectly as a woman can,
and that is the poetry of motion, from
shoulders to finger-tips, which adds a beauty
of its own to the music. This Showman,
for one, found it a more inspiring aesthetic
experience to wmteh Daisy Kennedy playing
than to listen to Zimbalist or Kubelik. Fran-
coise Mores, a young French lady, who gave
a recital at Sydney Conservatorium Hall on
Saturday night, is a particularly graceful
player apart from her purely musical gifts,
which are extensive. She is not such a
flawless technician as Elman nor as great
an interpreter as Kreisler ; she has not the
fire of Paganini nor the impressive manner
of Joachim; but she has rhythm and good
taste and a very keen ear for those small
refinements which even very great players
sometimes miss.
Saturday night’s audience heard Mdlle.
Mores in the Bach Suite in G (unaccom-
panied)—a long, long work, just barely
saved from tedium —and the splendidly bril-
liant “Rondo Capriecioso” of Saint-Saens,
worthily performed. More satisfying than
either of these great compositions, however,
was a little Italian. sonata —one of a whole
crop unearthed in recent years—light, grace-
ful and delicate, and played angelically. Then
there were Chopin’s E Flat nocturne, Mil-
haud’s “Printemps,” Schumann’s phantasy
for the fiddle (Op. 73) and “Abendlied.”
Lindley Evans provided some nice pianoforte
accompaniments.
•S %•
The severest critic of the productions of
Scott Alexander’s New Sydney Repertory
“The long day wanes.”
Society must
admit that it
sets new re-
cords, amateur
an d profes-
sional, with
the number
and variety of
its offerings.
Oil Saturday
night, at St.
James’s Hall,
the Blue Unit
(which doesn’t
care how blue
a play is) put
on Robert
Emmet Sher-
wood’s
“W a t e r loo”
Bri d g e,” a
film version
,pf wdiich was seen recently in _ Syd-
ney. The play is much more intelli-
gent and realistic than the film; the
closing scene shows Myrna, the soiled dove,
deliberately lighting a cigarette during an
air raid. A German bomb ends her and the
play. Bright-spots in the acting were Ethel
Gabriel’s characterisation of a crafty land-
lady and William Leahy’s effort as a young
Canadian soldier on leave in London. Marie
Terry and Lily Bruce were not convincing
as lydies. Next Saturday night the Blue
Unit will present more Grand Guignol stuff.
* * *
Nat Phillips and his crew occupy the
stage of Sydney Grand Opera House with
a revue, “Back Again.” There are plenty of
laughs in the show. Angela Parsons sings
charmingly, and with Nita Carr, a clever
dancer, provides one of the best turns. The
Lewala Brothers, the Two High C’s and
Dick Ryan, a juvenile singer, diversify the
programme.
* # *
Other managements ought to be jealous of
the title of Ernest Rolls’s new revue at
Mclb. Palace, “Venus, Ltd.,” though nothing
else about the production is likely to make
them green with envy. Mr. Rolls is
nothing if not a staunch Conservative. If
anything resembling a new idea wandered by
accident t into the Palace it would promptly
be brained by the management. “Venus,
Ltd.” has nothing to do with Greek myth-
ology, unless a reference is intended to the
fact that Venus, before she became goddess
of love, was the Roman deity offspring. The
antics of the damsels who throw their limbs
about in “Venus, Ltd.” bear the same rela-
tionship to the grace associated with their
classic namesake as, Gus Bluett’s grin does
to the smile of the Mona Lisa. For the rest,
the show follows the usual Rolls tradition,
occupying four hours of a moderately large
audience’s time at the premiere on Saturday.
Amongst the numerous ballets, one remem-
bers with most satisfaction the 11 ladies
who come out dressed as pirates—that is
to- say, bits of piratical attire appear on
various isolated parts of their anatomy;
also the drilling of 12 female guardsmen by
Bluett, jun. The Two Rascals sing songs
through the nose, an organ which appears
singularly adapted for the sort of song they
, sing. The operatic items suggest the thought
- that one of the crosses Melbourne has to
bear is .its-amusements. However, the dress-
ing is ' extremely showy, the comedians
with - tireless energy, Jennie Ben-
son sings songs with throaty sentiment, and
there are no pauses for anything so, discon-
certing as reflection.
k' * * *
The drunk scene in. “As Husbands Go”
continues to earn the encomiums of students
of stage inebriety at Melbourne King’s.
It may also be added that the piece is a
worth-while comedy, if a trifle shaky in its
psychology. Ethel Morrison and co. will
shortly withdraw in favor of “The Barretts
of Wimpole-street.”
* * #
Though the title —“For the Duration”—
looks alarming, Melbourne has been sen-
tenced to Only a week of Jim Gerald’s new
revue at the Tivoli. The latest opus from
James's fertile pen is up to the standard of
the last one.
* * *
At Melbourne Royal “Sinbad” continues
to play on a good wicketnevertheless the
innings will be declared closed shortly vide
managerial warnings to latecomers ’
* * *
It is now nearly All Quiet on the Panto
Front in Melbourne. Field-Marshal Jim
Gerald declared an armistice at the Tivoli
until next Christmas and turned to vaude
ville on Saturday. General Wallace with-
drew his forces from the Bijou on Friday.
Desultory firing can be heard south of tin'
Yarra, and General Wenman announces that
he is confident of holding the Royal front
on the present basis of voluntarily-enlisted
audiences indefinitely. “The League of
Happiness” is still in session at the Palace
but “Venus, Ltd.,” from the Palladium, Lon-
don, is expected to rise above the horizon
next Saturday.
Poverty Point
“h 1 , 1 ; 1 ’- ' ; a . me eting of the Stage
Guild Oscar Asclie said .scathing things about
the modern commercial theatrical manage-
ment as opposed to actor-managers like
Irving, Tree, Alexander and Hare. With the
stage in the hands of the actor-managers if
was a profession ; now it was an industry,
in which directors who knew least about
it drew the largest fees, and went outside
for “expert” advice. If the “experts” said
that such and such a production would cost
£lO,OOO, the directors promptly made it
£20,000 to cover their own fees. No pro-
duction ever honestly cost £20,000; even
“Chu Chin Chow” cost not more than £5750.
He knew, because they had only £6OOO in
the kitty.
“Props”: The late Mrs. Brough was seen
only once in Shakspeare on the Australian
stage, when the B. and B. co. staged “Much
Ado About Nothing.” Mrs. Brough was
Beatrice: Robert Brough, Leonato; Tither-
adge, Benedick; Emma Temple, Hero; Cecil
Ward, Claudio, and 11. R. Harwood (in
Sydney), Dogberry. Dion Boucicault self-
effacingly took the small role of Verges. The
ball scene had panels painted by Tom
Roberts, Arthur Streeton and Fred McGub-
bin. I doubt if Australia has seen a better
Sliakspearean production.
“Props”: Von Suppe’s tuneful comic
opera “Boccaccio” has not been seen here
since Nellie Stewart and Marion Burton
played the title-role on alternate nights and
Pollard’s Juveniles had it in their repertoire.
A current revival at the New Yorker
Theatre, New York, under Chas. Wagner’s
regime, is notable for two things. It is
conducted by a lady, Madame Leginska, and
the title-role for the first time is filled by
a man, a tenor named Allan Jones. A. W.
Juncker, of Sydney, was connected with an
early Australian production of “Boccaccio”;
A. T. Dunning and Johnny Wallace
(still with us) brought here in 1883 a
superb London co. to interpret it, present-
ing also “Rip Van Winkle,” “Manola”
and other (then) novelties. But it was
Hmelie Melville who first staged Von Suppe’s
opera in Sydney, at the old Opera House,
King-street.
“Copabella”: Deliberately, for in it the
Prime Minister with a fine Tooley-street
lack of humor and with typical Strylian
nuances of accent addresses the people of
England, the Australian talkie gazette has
started round the World a grand advertise-
ment for Canberra. It deals with the new
Federal Cabinet on parade before the “mike”
and the Houses of Parliament, with Mr.
Lyons as interlocutor and corner-man both.
Nearly every man in the group is strenu-
ously waving away from his face an onset
of the famous Canberra flies; big McLachlan
and Lyons himself during his long harangue
to Britain and ourselves both fighting the
pest very hard. We may look forward to
ovei’seas comment on the cryptic “high sign”
politicians of Australia continually do give!
Happily the flies were the strong silent
variety, not “blowies.”
“L.H.P.”: The reappearance of “The
Merry Widow” on the Sydney boards recalls
that Joe Coyne, who starred here in comedy
in 1022 was London’s first Danilo.. Most of
the songs (to his relief) were entrusted to
others. When the run of 778 shows came to
an end. he professed delight, and swore never
to appear again as the hero of romance.
George Edwardes, who produced “The
Widow” at Daly’s, was very hard up at the
time, owing to big bets on slow horses and
small cards, but the production saved him.
It took a lot of luck to keep him saved, and
he got it in the long runs of “The Geisha,”
“San Toy” and “The Country Girl.” The
success of Lohar’s operetta caused managers
to rush to the Continent for novelties, and
thousands of pounds of English money lay in
Germany and Austria, deposits on opera
options, when the Great War broke out,
George Edwardes, by the irony of fate, con-
tracted the illness that killed him while a
prisoner of war in’ Austria.
“L.H.P.”: Mario Majeroni, who passed
over in New York a few weeks ago, was at
one time well known in these parts. His
first appearance on the Australian stage was
in 1893, when he supported his mother, Sig-
nora Majeroni, in a benefit performance of
Sardou’s “Jealousy,” at the old King-street
Opera House. The following year he toured
Maoriland with Walter Bentley, playing Ned
Singleton in “My Partner.” Then Majeroni
and his brother Georgio, dead these many
years, ran a co. round the smalls in Aus-
tralia. In 1895 Mario was treasurer and
leading man in Manfred Rose’s co., with
George Lcitch as star. In 1897 lie was Titus
in the first Julius Kuiglit production of “The
Sign of the Cross,” and later in the year
he toured Asia with the Broughs, playing
Lord Petworth in “Sowing the Wind” and
other good parts. On his return to Australia
he played a long stock season at Brisbane.
A M.L. tour With the Broughs followed, and
then he supported Nance O’Neil and Wilson
Barrett in their Australian campaigns. With
Barrett he played the Ghost in “Hamlet, f
and Ursus, the gladiator, in “Quo Vadis?
Since 1904 he had resided in the U.S.A..
where he had a moderately prosperous career
on the stage and in the movies.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Is the Dole a Right?
Dear 8.,—0n what grounds do “Gad” and
his fellow-bagmen claim the dole as their
right? Throughout the animal world, save
only in the case of man, the individual lias
to pull his weight in the struggle for exist-
ence, or-perish.' It was left for the “domi-
nant animal” to produce the loafer, the
malingerer and the parasite. Finding a
living, which is a purely individual respon-
sibility among the lower animals, is, among
the higher, thanks to sloppy sentimentality
and illogical humanitarianism, fast being
regarded as the duty of the State. And
male independence has so fallen that its
market price is now os. a week! But even
if we grant the State’s duty is to provide
sustenance, for its citizens, what of the citi-
zens’ duty of making an adequate return?
How many of these bagmen show any signs
of willingness to make such return for the
right they claim? Every right implies re-
sponsibilities—a man can’t have it both
ways.—Yours, Emiel. '
Unused Farm Lands
Dear B., —I have sufficient farm plant,
with cows and horses, to make a start—if 1
could get land ; and I can’t. Yet I drive past
thousands of acres which are growing nothing
but noxious weeds, and have been doing so
for years. Isn’t it time the principle of the
mining laws was applied to land whose
owner can afford to leave it not only idle,
so far as useful production is concerned, but
a positive menace? If these owners knew
that a land-hungry man could “jump their
claim” and prove his title by cleaning the
land up and making it productive, they wrnuld
quickly either provide much-needed employ-
ment, or give such evidence to a Court, as
wrnuld entitle them to exemption for a certain
period. It is a conservative statement that
more than half the land near N.S.W. towns
like Cowra and Temora is growing star
thistle, yellow thistle or the “black" variety,
and if one mentions the annual increase of
land under yellow thistle to many they will
reply that it is sheep feed—when the sheep
are starved enough! In the last drought
I saw a starving horse at Woodstock eat-
ing Bathurst burr. I have since been
expecting to hear from some farmers that
it, too, is “good feed in drought.”—Yours
etc., Kell B.
A Cry from the Track
■ Dear Bulletin, —It is a pity we cannot
put all our politicians on the track, making
them live on five bob a week plus what they
can cadge or pinch. Something will have
to be done to get men off this pitiful dole,
and if our legislators were sent out per
boot it would hasten the solution. The
powers that be have not yet been brought
to realise that they must find work.
Continual side-tracking can only lead to
the bankruptcy of Australia; and even
.should this calamity occur we would be still
faced with the necessity of working our way
out. Nothing is impossible. Work can be
made. I am on the dole. I know the feel-
ings of the men on the dole. I say without
hesitation that the great majority of them
would rush the opportunity to get back to
work even if rabid alterations in both pay
and hours were, inevitable to a workable
scheme.—Yours, Beta.
Killed by Taxation
Dear B.,—A Brisbane business house
which went into liquidation some weeks ago
received a communication a few days ago
from the Commissioner for Taxes. In a
reply the manager told the Commissioner
that the liquidator was now engaged in
winding up the estate. Then he added this
little homily:—
With taxation at its zenith, rates altogether
beyond reason for the service rendered, Government
interference with business developed to an absurd
degree, whereby Government departments practically
run our. businesses, it is a relief to be able to
advise that we are going out of business. The
average business man’s life consists of an unending
compilation of returns, filling in forms, making
declarations, and in general replying to a host of
foolish questions from Government departments. It
will be a relief to be included in the ranks of
the unemployed, where official envelopes inscribed
with “0.H.M.5.” will no longer terrorise.
One must admit that the Income Taxation
Department is only one of the nails in the
business man’s coffin, the final nail being the
sales tax, which since its increase to 6 p.c.
is responsible for much of the present unem-
ployment. —Yours, F. M.
Improving Farm Lands
Dear Bulletin, —The first problem facing
the new Federal Government is to provide
work for the unemployed. If Ministers will
assist each State to settle people on the land,
they will go a long way towards a solution.
Ip the south-east of South Aus., wdiere there
is a regular rainfall, there are thousands of
acres of first-class land which requires only
draining and clearing to more than treble its
capacity. Very large areas of heath country
are at present carrying about one sheep to
five acres, which can be made to carry at
least two sheep. to the acre. Let the Gov -
ernment-employ, say, one thousand of the
unemployed to clear this land, top-dress it
and sow it down with clovers; the cost could
be added to the price paid for the land,
which can be, purchased very cheaply. The
work would be reproductive, as the improved
land would certainly all be applied for.—l
am etc.,. J. H. Sheppard.
Democracy’s Failure
Dear Bulletin, —I can make my sugges-
tion best by quoting John Stuart Mill in his
work on Representative Government (IS6II :
Representative institutions are of little value
and may be a mere instrument of tyranny or
intrigue when the generality of electors are not
sufficiently interested in their own government to
give their vote, or, if they vote at all, do not
bestow their suffrages on public grounds, but sell
them for money or vote at the beck of someone
who has control over them; or whom for private
reasons they desire to propitiate.' Popular election
as thus practised, instead of being a security against
misgovernment, is ; but an additional wheel in its
machinery. Until there shall have been devised
some; mode of plural voting, which may assign
to education as such the degree of superior in-
fluence due to- it, and sufficient as a counterpoise
to the numerical weight of the least educated class
—for so long the benefits of completely universal
suffrage cannot be obtained without, bringing with
them, as it appears to me, more than equivalent
evils. Equal voting- is in principle wrong, because
recognising a wrong standard, and exercising a bad
influence on the voter’s mind. It is not. useful, but
hurtful, that the constitution of the country should
declare ignorance to be entitled to as much poli-
tical power as knowledge.
The time is ripe to address ourselves to
the question of some form of plural voting.
Our present financial situation is largely
the result of Governments getting into
power by virtue of promises involving the
expenditure of money, from which those who
returned the Governments expected to bene-
fit. The cost of financing schemes of social
betterment and incursions into the sphere of
enterprises of an unsound nature has ulti-
mately to be borne by the taxpayer, whose
say in the initiation of these policies is
totally inadequate to his subsequent respon-
sibilities. It would seem, therefore, that the
taxpayer should have a vote additional to
that which he or she has by virtue of being
an adult citizen. The adult, vote could nor
well be interfered with, although the desir-
ability of postponing it until the age of 25
be reached is well worth consideration. Edu-
cational attainment could quite reasonably
be the basis of an extra vote. Age also
might reasonably be endowed with an addi-
tional vote, as experience of life and affairs
should assist in enabling a voter to arrive at
fairly sound conclusions. However, to give
every voter his true value in voting power,
considerable investigation and recording
would be necessary. Therefore to meet the
requirements as far as possible, and to meet
the practical aspect of the matter as well, the
addition of a vote on attainment of the age
of 35 years would be sufficient.
As our thinking men have pointed out
time and again, Democracy is a delusion
unless based upon and supported by an in-
telligent electorate, by which is meant, that
those people exercising the franchise must
be so equipped by education and experience
as to presuppose that they shall possess a
full understanding of the matters upon which
they cast their vote. The proposal outlined
above is an effort to meet this requirement.
—Yours, P. .T. S.
Christ on the Road
Dear B.,—A last word to the Rev.
“Dag.” And let me put it in the form of
a question. What would the attitude of
Christ Himself have been if approached by
a man in. apparent want? —Yours etc.,
Gad.
Unemployment Relief Tax
Dear B.. —In Queensland. ..those lucky
enough to draw wages or
salary are docked sixpence
in the pound for Unem-
ployment Relief Tax.
The levy in N.S.W. is a
shilling. Paying this tax
even at 6d. is a slug, r
on top of the other im-
posts, and it chafes to the
bone to see the money
spent without returning
any benefit to the country.
The Micore Government
—and it is about the
sanest Government we
have—has messed about
for a couple of years
levelling school grounds
and building bits of road,
but so far nothing has
been done to add to the
country's wealth. Can-
not the relief tax fund be
handled so that idle hands
and idle lands are brought
together to produce some ;
saleable commodities?
There are thousands of
farmers w r ith land which
could and should be
growing crops, but the
owners can't afford the
labor. The same thing
applies to much dairy
country. Some scheme
should be devised by
which unemployed may be
absorbed by the primary
producer, and their wages
met jointly by the em-
ployer and the unemploy-
ment relief tax fund. The
scheme might be extended
also to languishing
secondary industries. At
present we are simply
drifting to the Devil. —
Yours, Mars T.
Unionists Who Break
Their Own Rules
Dear B., —Those unem-
ployed unionists who com-
plain that they are de-
barred from work at a
possible job through being
unfinancial have no one
but themselves to blame.
Union secretaries and
shop stewards know this
kind of unionist too well
—they always find the
greatest difficulty in col-
lecting dues from them,
even on pay Friday.
Rarely, if ever, are these
gentry financial, though
working full time: I've
worked with members of
my union who were earn-
ing over £7 per week and
were £5 in arrears—
nearly two years' contri-
butions. These are the
unionists who have the
hide to claim equal rights
with unemployed financial
members who have
observed two rules —
firstly, keeping financial
while in work; secondly,
when unemployed, noti-
fying their union secre-
tary and reporting them-
selves personally or in
writing every four weeks.
Observance of these two
rules affords exemption from payment of
union dues in unemployment and keeps
members good on the books- —and that’s the
whole case in a nutshell. —Yours, L. Liz.
Farm Security
Dear Bulletin, —“Butterfat” regards his
dairy farm (B. 30/12/’3l), valued by him-
self at £l5OO, as good security for a loan
of £lOOO either from a bank or privately.
Is his estimate based on present-day selling
prices, and does the value include cattle,
horses and plant? Farming plant is subject
to heavy depreciation, and is not acceptable
as security. If credit was so easily
obtainable as “Butterfat” recommends, there
would be a boom iu dairy farms and values
would quickly inflate; but with drought or
low prices for dairying returns a crash would
follow, and “Butterfat” with others would
walk off their farms penniless.
“Butterfat,”- by-borrowing £lOOO and em-
ploying six men, might enhance the value
of his security; but to actually do this the
moneys must be expended upon improving
the carrying capacity of the farm, and for
such a purpose are six men and £lOOO re-
quired? Spending moneys on expensive
unproductive improvements, such as. a
modern homestead,-does not augment dairy-
ing returns; and “Butterfat” would be well
advised to follow in the footsteps of. the
pioneer farmers of Australia by working
hard himself and gradually effecting improve-
ments from income. —Yours, Security.
Tea, Too?
Dear Bulletin,—S. Africa was the first
of the British colonies to break away from
the old tradition that the tobacco-plant could
be grown only in a certain few portions of
the globe. Canada also quietly cultivated
the weed, but sent the product to the U.S.A.,
where it was blended with Virginian. This
practice has now ceased, and a world-wide
advertising campaign lias been launched to
market the product independently. After
many abortive attempts the industry in
Australia, too, bids fair to become estab-
lished. The most surprising fact revealed
is that some variety or other of the tobacco
plant will prosper under almost any climatic
conditions. This experience has lately been
borne out by a range of experiments made in
England, where the plant lias received inten-
sive cultivation with excellent results. Now
that “My Lady Nicotine” has proved her-
self so tractable, as rice did also, is it not
possible that “the cup that cheers but not
inebriates” will prove equally amenable to
a little coaxing?—Yours, J. M. M.
The Nigger and Unemployment
Dear Bulletin, —So long as the natives in
Colonial possessions retained tlieir tribal
lands, workless men did not and could not
be. When white settlers appeared, great
was their surprise. They found the ’‘labor
market” short of workers. The civiliser
quickly discovered the cause of this intoler-
able situation, and set about to get cheap
labor in the only way it can be got. So long
as the native has access to tribal lands he
fights shy of the labor market. Being free to
work for himself he is not driven by hunger
to compete for wages from employers. The
civiliser set to work to.destroy the tribal land
system, and wherever they have taken the
land from the natives the result has been an
abundant supply of “labor on the market,”
with wages kept down by the competition of
landless men. This is confirmed by evidence
given before the Native Labor Commission
(Kenya) in 1912-13. Settler after settler
came before the commission and demanded in
the most precise terms that the natives should
be forced out of the “reserves” to work for
wages by cutting down their land so that
they should have less than they could live on.
The denial of the right to land means the
denial of the right to work, save on the
terms of the landowner; and the same
economic laws govern civilised society as the
so-called primitive races. The power of a
section of the community to close the land—-
“nature’s workshop”—against labor and capi-
tal is everywhere the first cause of unemploy-
ment. —Yours etc.. L.
Mr. Fearn and the Furnishing Trade
Dear Bulletin, —In issue of the 20th is
a statement of Chas. W. Fearn relative to my
society. The gravamen of Mr. Fearn’s com-
plaint is that upon , liis, return from New
Zealand he was not allowed to re-enter the
industry in Sydney. The facts are as fol-
lows*.
Upon the occasion of his going to N.Z. he
drew his clearance (No. 320, 30/4/'29), but
since his return, though informed by Mr.
Archer (ass. secretary) that he should
lodge his clearance from the New Zealand
society, thereby automatically rejoining here,
he has not done so. In consequence Mr.
Fearn has not been a member of the society
in N. S. Wales for upwards of three years.
Notwithstanding the above facts, and evi-
dently believing that he had a case at law
against the society, he took steps to have
proceedings taken by the Legal Aid Depart-
ment ; but upon our being given the custom-
ary opportunity of tendering a written state-
ment setting out our version of the matter,
the projected prosecution was abandoned.
The society has been conducted for many
years subject to rules approved and registered
under the Industrial Arbitration Act 1912
and the Trades Unions Act 1881 respec-
tively.
I would like to add I have at no time
myself seen Mr. Fearn nor had any personal
dealings with him. —Yours faithfully, O.
Sciireiber, General Secretary, Federated
Furnishing Trade Society, N.S.W. Branch.
MASTER IN HIS OWN HOUSE.
"Mr. Lang still resists every effort to compel him to face the people.”
SMALL VOICE FROM UNDER THE BED: “No, I will NOT come out! I tell you, once and for all,
I WILL be Master in my own House.”— With apologies to Phil May.


IT IS SO EASY
Just a stroke of the pen, the mere recording of a signature, is
all that is required for the establishment of a Savings Account
that may eventually mean more to you than any business
arrangement you have ever undertaken.
Of course, a Savings Account may not be commenced without
some money, but since a sum so small as 1/- will be accepted
as the first deposit, hardly any person, man, woman or child,
need be without this simple, easy and profitable aid to the
accomplishment of financial independence.
Record your signature now and start your shillings to working
for you.
Cbmmoiiwcaltl) Savinas JM of Bustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
MS
es,
For a trouble-free enjoyable and
romantic journey to England, travel
Canadian Pacific.
Canadian Pacific Trains
Ihavel LwuVuj unequalled
What trains . . . what speed and com-
fort, and, above all, what service. C.P.R.
trains are veritable hotels on wheels.
Delightful appointments, observation
cars, dining cars, showers, white waiters.
No wonder Canadian Pacific travellers
enjoy that glorious 600-mile journey
through the Canadian Pacific Rockies.
Just another link in the Canadian Pacific
Australia to England travel system.
Details and literature on request.
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney.
4/31.2
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
va lhe Worlds Greatest 'Drove l System
ABORIGINALITIES
“Taltingan” : A pastoral inspector in the
Far West (N.S.W.) kept a record of the
fires he inquired into, and managers of
stations in which his people were interested
added to his data. Contrary to what seems
to have been always expected, glass—mostly
broken bottles- —stood only second on the
list; lightning came first, travellers’ careless-
ness with fire third. But that is in a dis-
trict where travellers are not numerous. Most
of the recent big western blazes followed
thunderstorms with vivid lightning. The
“chain” variety, according to this careful
record, does most damage.
❖ ifc
“D.H.R.” : The north-west plains wind of
N.S.W. is a facetious circumstance. Some
years ago my father, then head drover for
Wolseley, Gibbs and Co., was riding into
Walgett carrying in his pocket a cheque for
the store account. On the way he turned out
his pbcket to check some sheep brands. The
wind whisked the cheque from the bundle,
and he saw it disappear far ahead high above
the ground. When lie reached the store, a
couple of hours later, the manager, W. ll'.
Wright, handed it to him with the remark,
“This blew in the door half an hour ago.”
There is a yarn of a resident of Narrabri
who, being too shy to pop the question, wrote
a proposal, addressed it to the lady of his
choice, and then lost it, A kindly wind picked
it up a.nd delivered it to the girl while she
was milking. They’ve lived more or less
happily ever since.
❖ ❖ % :J;
“C. Coral” : We wondered why Jones, who
had just come across from the wilds of
North Australia, '.refused boiled eggs at
breakfast, until he told us the story of the
“barking eggs.” As Jones is a missionary
we had to believe him. "I was camped out
with Smith the stockman over in Arnhem
Land,” said Jones, “and we’d had a tough
go—nothing to eat but corned beef and
damper. ‘lf only I could get a good feed of
eggs, now,’ Smith kept on saying. Suddenly
he grabbed the bii.y and set off down the
river. There was a selector there, and Smith
had remembered that Mrs. Selector had a
lot of hens. When he came back, it looked as
though he’d cleaned up the whole hen roost.
‘All fresh !’ says Smith. ‘Noiv we’ll have a
feed!’ and a black boy set to work and
boiled a tinful. We grabbed three or four
apiece. Smith got the first one down pretty
quickly, and then he jumped up from where
we were sitting and streaked for the bushes
near by, and I heard him performing like a
tourist crossing the bay in a gale. Just
as he returned, looking pretty ghastly, I felt
a peculiar jump in the spoonful of egg that
was going down my throat, and heard a
sound like the yelp of a dog, and I got for
the bush too. Smith thought I was having'a
joke at his expense, until I wandered back
feeling a bit dizzy and we compared notes.
Both of us were sure we’d heard a dog bark
as the eggs were being lowered. Anyway, we
didn’t fancy any more, and gave the tinful to
the black boys. A couple of hours later Roberts,
CLOTHES-LINE CONFIDENCES.
MRS. MAGINNIS: “Shure, ’twas a foine sermon Father Dooley prached on birth control.”
MRS. BRANNIGAN : “Faith, Old loike to know as little as he do about havin’ children,
anyway.”
one of the North Australian police, who'd
been out on patrol, blew into camp. “Just
been down to Mrs. Selector's to get a coupla
dozen fresh eggs, and a young pup she’d
promised me,’ he explained, ‘but I drew a
blank. She said it was a pity I didn’t come
along a few days sooner. Pansy had a litter
ONE FOR MANNERS.
“But what did you call the poor bloke back ami crack him again
for?”
“Don? blame me for that, Kit; the bad-mannered cow was ‘goin'
off’ without saying good night.”
—half a dozen of ’em—but Mrs. Selector
wasn’t sure when I’d be over her way again,
and she killed the lot and boiled ’em to feed
the fowls—they like a bit of fresh meat now
and again, you know, to make ’em lay.’ ”
* * * *
, ir „i„i,■» ir.-ir, „ . - XT -
P : mpk-K? a turt K ,- m
’’ ea * s a horribly messy business. I
r "JnmK se ™} natlve « aboat
.p< t a 6001 b. specimen. lhe turtle
was lying on its back on the beach, help-
lessly flapping, and my cook-boy, Mai-Iki,
squatted near by, kindling a fire on its
stomach. Bellowing loudly I rushed to the
rescue, scattered the fire, and, in honest
rage, was about to inflict grievous bodily
harm on Mai-Iki. Deciding, however, that
he knew no better, I sent a boy for my
reyolver, and, while awaiting him, discoursed
to the assembly on the evil of cruelty to
animals. To my annoyance Mai-Iki
wanted to debate the matter. “Master,”
he said earnestly, “this fella he no savvy
die quick time. S’pose you shoot ’im he
no die.” “No?” I said; “you watch!” and
pumped three rounds from a .82 into its
head. To my chagrin the turtle showed
no sign of having noticed anything unusual,
and did not even interrupt the slow pendu-
lum-like movement of its head from side to
side. Rather staggered by such unconcern
I fired three more rounds, but with the
same result. The thing seemed slightly bored
with the proceedings and certainly displayed
no resentment. “Bringim aids!” (bring an
axe) I shouted desperately. “Cut off head
belong ’im.” This was done, and the
turtle, I thought, was out of its dreadful
agony. But when, to my amazement, the
headless body continued to breathe through
the severed windpipe, as though losing a
head was an everyday occurrence, I threw
the towel in. “All right,” I told Mai-Iki;
“go ahead and kill it any way you like.”
He remade the fire, and when the tissue
was no longer like leather cut the
flesh around the edge and removed the
stomach shell, leaving the inside exposed,
II was such an uncanny sight to see the
heart still pumping and everything else
apparently working to schedule that I
repaired to the house for a drink. Even
when I returned several hours later the
turtle wasn’t quite dead.
“Ellyhr” : There was trouble in the weir-
construction camp on a river in out-back
Queensland. It had
rained for some time,
and the job was sloppy
and soft, while the
beef, the damper and
the Scotch foreman
were hard. Especially
the Scotch foreman.
The popularity with
his fellows of the
navvy who could take
the Scotty down a peg
and get away with it
was assured, and a big
Swede of simple habits
and ideas, having an-
nounced that he would
fix the cow, was a
candidate for this es-
teem. An opportunity
presented itself next
day when Scotty was
standing on the edge
of the timber staging
15ft. aboye the water.
Leaving his part of
the work with more
precip itance than
thought, the big navvy
advanced slowly to-
wards the foreman
from behind, tinkering
with the fastenings of
the staging and look-
ing everywhere but at
his quarry. Fifteen
feet away, fourteen,
twelve —the big Swede
w r as trembling with
excitement —ten feet,
eight, six away. Soon
an accidental stumble,
then a splash. Four
feet away. The big man
crouched. Now! The
Scotchman moved, and
walked unhurriedly
away. Disappointed,
but relieved at being
undetected, the Swede
hurried back to his
work. Ten minutes
later the foreman
strolled along' and
stopped beside the
would-be joker. The
Swede paled beneath
his dirtiness but Scotty
watched him work
feverishly for some
time in silence. Then,
slowly removing his
hands from the pockets
of his moleskins and
taking his stubby pipe
from his mouth, he
said softly: “I can swim, anyway, ye silly
coo!”
-* * * *
“C.A.8.”: A record is claimed for a mare
owned by S. J. Taylor, of Coonamble
(N.S.W.). She was 46 last August—the
Official birthday of all neddies —and is still
able to raise a' trot around the paddock. In
the same paddock is a fine stamp of pony, a
son of the ancient mare. He is a seven-year-
old.
* * $ *
“Gumblegubbin”: The dense northern
jungles are a happy hunting-ground for the
nature-lover, but are full of little terrors
for the unwary. Stinging-trees, lawyer-vines
and the humming swarms of rapacious mos-
quitoes don’t matter much; the abhorrent
things are leeches, scrub-ticks, green tree-ants
and procession caterpillars. The caterpillars
are usually encountered about the edges,
especially where there are white cedar-trees.
These little beasts are covered with irritating-
hairs, and they build a community nest m
the form of a silken bag—an obnoxious
thing to bump against. It contains a mass
of. powdery stuff—excreta, thickly inter-
mixed with cast hairs. In that bag the
caterpillars camp by day, emerging to feed
at night. Seen crossing a road, the pro-
cession looks like a long, thin snake, The
green tree-ants build nests among the
branches by weaving leaves together, and
have a habit of dropping down on to a
person’s neck, getting under his shirt and
biting like fury. Scrub-ticks are of two
kinds —the big bottle-tick, which buries itself
in tin' flesh, and may kill a dog or a child;
and file cudgera, a mite that gets on the
body in swarms, and takes hours to pick off.
The scrub-leech is a leathery, elastic vam-
pire that lurks on the leaf-carpeted ground
and stretches after the intruder from all
sides, getting up his legs and into his boots.
Then there is the cougli-bush. contact with
which brings down a dust from the under-
surface of the leaves that makes the eyes
smart and causes severe sneezing and
coughing.
SOU' BY WEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Gold is on the hilltop, gold.is in the glen;
Cold is in the hearts of us poor sail or men.
Ail the wattles' stir there in the scented
breeze;
Here a bitter north wind cuts across the
seas.
Down the purple hillsides gum-tree scents
are blowing;
Ice is sheeted on the deck, and steadily it’s
snowing.
Spin the wheel and change the course, sou’
by west again !
Home is calling in the hearts of us poor
sailormen.
One sits lonely weeping—God knows why—
for me.
Turn about and steer her down straight for
Sydney Quay.
Sweet is the boronia down on Snowy's side.
Here come winds from nor’ward freezing as
they ride.
Down those distant valleys parrakeets are
_ flying.
Swirls the billow high and white. How my
heart i.s crying!
Spin the wheel and change the course, sou’
by west again !
Home is calling in the hearts of us poor
sailormen.
In old haunts they’re drinking down in
Sydney streets.
Why should frozen fingers tug at frozen
cleats?
Good fair-weather taverns where the chanty
rolls,
Don’t these landsmen reckon sailormen have
souls?
Coldly, soar these tuskers, savage from the
sea;
One I love, oh, one I love, is waiting home
for me.
Spin the wheel and change the course, sou’
by west again !
Home is calling in the hearts of us poor
sailormen.
CANADA.
H. NEIL SMITH.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remittc d. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Plum Razor Guard
sM
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and sin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 2/9 each, post free.
c PLUM RAZOR
V
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case—
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—gin. and Jin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, LTD., 654 George Street, Sydney.
WHAT WILL 1932
BE LIKE?
The January “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
discusses this question; and every
investor, great and little, will be
interested in the data brought
together and the conclusions
reached.
‘‘The Monthly” puts the work
of a staff of accountants and
investment specialists at your
disposal.
No investor can afford to be
without it.
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
Prom Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
“Maluka”: Those who knew Darwin in
the days when Vesteys’ meatworks were in
full swing would scarcely recognise the place
were they to return to it now. The present
conflicts between police and unemployed are
tame in comparison to the lurid happenings
of the meatworks days. One of the local
characters in those days was known simply
as Tom. I first met him one swelteringly
hot night, or rather morning, for it was
nearly two o’clock. My companion and I
had been wandering about since twelve —
when'the pubs had kicked us out —looking-
for a drink. Our efforts met with no suc-
cess, and it seemed that our quest was hope-
AND HOPE FOR THE BEST.
GARDENER: “Doctor, them Jones boys are stealing your peaches. Shall I ring up for the
police?”
DOCTOR: “No, no — I think we’ll wait, till they’re ripe to do that. They're patients
of mine.”
less, when my attention was suddenly
attracted to an extremely fat man wearing
a heavy overcoat. An overcoated figure
being as rare in Darwin as a naked explorer
at the Pole, I called my pal’s attention to
liim. Instead of being amused, as I had
expected, he gave a yelp of joy. “It’s Tom!”
“And who’s Tom?” I asked. My mate made
no reply but dragged me across to the
heavily-apparelled figure, and, still without
speech, dropped some silver into the other’s
palm. Tom unbuttoned his coat, and 10,
his fat was not fat at all. Around his
waist was buckled a belt from which were
suspended bottles of all descriptions. The
inside of his coat was lined with them. We
took a couple of bottles and Tom disap-
peared into the night. During this transac-
tion no word had been spoken. Thereafter
Tom was. a familiar figure to me, and I
followed his chreer with interest. He was
singularly uncommunicative, rarely speak-
ing, and then only when it was unavoidable.
He had an uncanny knack of dodging the
police. On more than one occasion he was
arrested, but invariably, by some means
known only to himself, he had got rid of his
wares.
$ ❖ ❖ *
“Trapster”: Ashton’s Circus, from which
an elephant recently escaped, thereby caus-
ing a sensation, is the oldest in Australasia.
But for Ashton’s there wouldn’t be a Wirths’
Circus, for the former gave John Wirth fa
pioneer goldminer) and his boys the oppor-
tunity to start in the same line of business.
Jimmy Ashton was a clogdancer in Sydney.
He started a. circus in a small way and liis
enterprise soon began to flourish. In 1870
Ashton’s arrived at Dalby (Q.) for a season.
John Wirth had settled there with his family
and had erected a dance hall; he had the
reputation of being able to play any kind
of musical instrument. Being just the man
for a circus, he joined Ashton’s and left
Dalby to tour with the show. Not long
afterwards he returned and booked his three
eldest sons—John (died in S’Africa about
40 years ago), Harry (left the family enter-
prise in the ’nineties) and Philip (head
of the show to-day) as musicians in the
Ashton employ, and off they went to com-
mence their careers under canvas. The Ash-
ton enterprise lias been handed down from
one “Dad” Ashton to another. Grandsons
of the founder are the practical heads of
the show to-day, there being over 20 Ash-
tons in the co.
* ... * *
“Kooragai”: A saucy and pugnacious
creature at nesting-time is the Australian
roller- or dollar-bird, which gets its first
name from its sportive rolling and gambolling
in the air, and its second from the con-
spicuous silvery-blue patch on the centre of
each wing. It draws attention to itself
by his brilliant colors, far-flung call and
peculiar habits. The general color is a
beautiful blending of many shades of blue
and green, with dark brown on the head
and back, and red eyes, bill and legs.
During married life the perky male
works double shifts, and practically hangs
out a sign that trespassers will be perse-
cuted. Mrs. Dollar-bird places her pearly-
white eggs in a hollow spout of a big, high
tree, and on the branches of that tree Mr.
Dollar-bird keeps guard all the time .she is
sitting, darting out and viciously attacking
any feathered creature that dares to
approach the sanctum. The surroundings
for a dozen rods or more are his exclusive
property. Between times he makes short
flights after food, and feeds the hen with
beetles, locusts and flies. All his hawking
is done within a short radius of the nursery.
Sometimes he will set after a flying beetle,
then turn sharply and hurry home again, as
if suspecting that some interloper might be
prowling about the premises.. Though at
other times he is rather shy and keeps aloof,
the responsibility of domesticity transforms
him, and he savagely attacks anyone who
tries to rob the nest.
CHANGE OF SCENE DO MORE GOOD ’N DOCTOR’S MEDICINE.
“Art ’ee goin' somewhere, boay?”
“’Ess, m'soh. Doctor said, ‘What ’ee wants is complete change—get right away from
sight of t' old mine for a spell, Zacky,’ ’e says. So I’m off up Broken ’III for a
week.”
“Dai R.”: Apropos of “Nakhoda” (B.
2/12/’3l) and “A.L.K.” (B. 6/l/’32), a
legend concerning an extinct tribe of
arboreal monstrosities lingers
among some of the Gulf tribes.
The tale runs that Oola, chief
of the once-consolidated tribes,
having been spurned by the
damsel of his choice, to show
his niter contempt of all human
females espoused a lady kan-
garoo. She bore him many
sons and daughters, all of
whom had kangaroo bodies
(tail included) and human
heads. For a while these were
tolerated on equal terms by
the tribe owing to their great
fear of Oola, but in the end
the molestation of young
lubras by the sons bred insur-
rection, and Oola and his
spouse, together with as many
of their descendants as could
be caught, were slain. A few
who escaped took up with
emus, the issue being a queer
blend of man, animal and bird
that was graminivorous and
lived entirely in trees. A
contant vendetta existed be-
tween them and their human
relations, and after a few generations they
were wiped out. Their spirits are reincar-
nated as curlews, and still bewail that early
tragedy.
* * * *
“Dr. Mivart”: The statement that self-
preservation is the first law of nature is,
like most popular generalisations, subject to
many exceptions. Cowardice is a vice from
which many living creatures are entirely
free. Most (but not all) ants will attack
a human being if molested. Puff cigarette
smoke at a common black and tan ant or
a bulldog ant, and he’ll spring at you, and
not because he is too stupid to know fear,
either. Now if / were confronted with a
giant 800 feet high, weighing 50,000 tons, I’d
make myself scarce. Then consider the
habits of moths, which, until Swan and
Edison took up their sad case, devoted noc-
turnal hours—which could have been better
applied to helping the clothing trade —to burn-
ing themselves alive. Also the various heavy-
bodied flying beetles —the coleopt known in
Australia as the “Christmas beetle” is
notorious for it—which deliberately butt
their heads into every obstruction that comes
in the path of their flight. Spiders (which
are not insects) usually exhibit tremendous
agility in escaping danger, but the light-built,
flossy-speckled monster we call a “tarantula
has moments of dare-devilishness. I re-
quently I have held a big reading-glass over
one as he sat on the wall, nearly touching
his back with the lens, but though his eight
eyes sparkled like diamonds and lie got as
good a view of me as 1 of him. he stood his
ground without a flinch. Some of the
orthopts are similarly indifferent. The other
night a quaint fellow an inch long, finished
in a Duco-spray effect in reds and greens,
with a goatlike head, two dark red eyes
and enormously long antennae, settled on
my blotting-pad, and when I attempted to
poke him away with the end of my pen,
advanced towards me, unhurriedly, with a
quaint weaving of his body and his antennae
from side to side. For all he knew, you
would say, I was going to squash him. But
how do you know he didn’t know? Those
comical-looking little jokers knew all about
radio several million years before the mam-
malia made their appearance on the planet,
and I’m prepared to believe that some of
them have senses we humans haven’t even
guessed at.
* * * *
“Buck”: Abandoned goldfields generally
present a desolate appearance, but I know
of none more wild and forbidding than the
old Tooloom diggings in north-eastern N. S.
Wales, north from Drake and Paddy’s Flat,
and “struck” about the same time. Never
famous, it yet boasted a canvas city of about
10,000 inhabitants, mostly Chinese. Remains
of the old stone store and bank are still
to be seen, and the blackened stumps of
several old pubs are scattered here and there.
The claims were mostly alluvial, and followed
the Tooloom River, which flows through the
rugged, mountainous country above the head
of the Clarence. Some of the old workings
testify to the patience and ingenuity of the
Chinese. To enable the .side of a hill
to be worked they built a channel of
rocks, puddled with clay, round hills, under
cliffs and over gullies, to bring water from
the higher levels, over eight miles away.
The greater portion of the work is still in
evidence. A co. was floated by some white
diggers, the scheme being to build a wooden
race and wash the top and sides of a peak
showing gold. A mill was erected, timber was
cut, and the race, built on trestles, was car-
ried along the bed of the river for a couple
of miles, but the project fell through just
before completion. Gold is still to be won in
the place, if one lia.s a stout heart and big
shoulders and doesn’t mind the company of
dingoes, rock-wallabies and a hatter or two.
IT SEEMS TER ME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It seems ter me,” said Joe, and lit
Reflectively his blackened briar,
And paused sententiously to spit
In the direction of the fire,
“There’s little use to growl and curse.
When things are crook as crook can be
They’ve gotter mend. They can’t get worse,
It seems ter me.
“It seems ter me,” said Joe, “that if
It’s frozen truth, what Fritz declares
About his being broke and stiff,
His creditors —and also theirs —
Are wasting time to thrash and thresh;
And Uncle Sam across the sea
May whistle for his pound of flesh,
It seems ter me.
“It seems ter me,” said Joe, “they laid
Foundation for as big a store
Of suffering, the peace who made,
As all the crowd that planned the war.
’Tis best to cut your losses straight
When lOU’s pan out n.g.
And swipe a sponge across the slate,
It seems ter me.
“It seems ter me,” said Joe, “ a thing
That’s strange, a topsy-turvy biz.
The more that gold in bars will bring
The less of it in coin there is.
Exactly why it should be so
These here professors can’t agree;
There’s lots these smarties never know,
It seems ter me.
“It seems ter me,” said Joe, and tapped
The ashes from his pipe away
And thoughtfully his swag unwrapped,
“It’s time for us to hit the hay.
We’ve half flic world as cobbers in
Our troubles, that I’ll guarantee.
Some day we’ll get a fairer spin ;
Meanwhile our dreams may bring a grin,
It seems ter me.”
N.s.w.
IFORD.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under me Companies Act 1863. Established 18711.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. :
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Males, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,_ this
Bank'offevs the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life,
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., Brisbane.
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAIvE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA,
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne. , , ~
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO.. LTD., Adelaide.
LTD., Chancery House,
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES-
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire •
IWonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISH ED 1811.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd-
Paid-up Capital.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
SMOKE-OH!
“Dress is woman’s greatest method of self-expres-
sion.”—“Herald/’
The girls aren’t saying much for them-
selves on the beaches nowadays.
THE BLESSINGS OF SCIENCE.
MR. JOHN: “I’m sorry, dear, I have to work back to-night.”
MRS. JOHN: “What a nuisance, pet! But I suppose we’ll have to make the best of it.”
“Though her husband had attacked her with a
pick, she was willing to forgive him and take him
back.”— Evidence in Melbourne court.
Shows what it is to pick a good wife. .
* *
“Have you been fair to your children?”
“I’ve been both fair and dark to them,”
said Mrs. Fashion-Plate, “but one thing
I’ve never been to the poor mites, thank
goodness, and that’s grey.”
* *
THE TICKET LIFE.
Monday: Pawn ticket.
Tuesday : Lottery ticket.
Wednesday: Betting ticket.
Thursday: Art union ticket.
Friday: Dole ticket.
Saturday: Pawn ticket.
* *
CONSISTENCY.
“Such sad news about Winnie Sexagen-
arian, Henry.”
“What’s wrong?”
“Well, you know how deliciously young she
has always been !”
“Yes, the old fool.”
“How 7 she looked no more than 20 when
she was 35?”
“Yes, and not a day over 18 when she
was 45, provided you saw her in a dim light
a couple of hundred yards away.”
“Can you think of anyone else capable of
taking up with a new boy and going in
for beach pyjamas at 55?”
“I certainly cannot.”
“Well, now it’s all over for a while, poor
girl. She’s ill, seriously ill.”
“What’s wu-ong? Senile decay?”
“Senile decay! Don’t be such a brute —
besides which it isn’t even fashionable. She
has infantile paralysis.”
“Bankrupt stated that, though some near-relatives
were wealthy, they would not give him financial
assistance.”
A .paradox he found teas here:
Whenever he became insistent,
The relatives he claimed as near
Turned out to be extremely distant!
ft ft-
“ Some of these so-called near-beers are more
intoxicating than the real stuff.”
—Temperance reformer.
A case of fiction being stronger
truth.
ft- «■
“When I see men entering a hotel I think of
the phrase ‘Foals step in where angels fear to
tread.’ ” — “Sun” report of temperance speech.
The foals step in after pony beers, no
doubt.
ft- ft
“Bradman then pasted the slow bowler to the
fence.” —“Sunday Sun.”
And the owner of the fence made no
objection, as fence-owners did when members
of the New Guard got busy with their paste-
pots last month.
ft ft
DELAYED.
(In a.d. 2031.)
Mrs. Brown looked at the clock. It was
G. 20 and Brown should have been home at
G.O sharp. She turned the gas down under
the stew. At seven she gave the little
Browns their tea; at eight she began to
keep watch on the front gate ; at nine she
got the kitchen broom handy behind the
front door. But her preparations were in
vain. Browm didn’t come back. She
mourned him for five years and then mar-
ried Aloysius Bludwurst. He was still
absent when the little Browns and Blud-
wursts grew up and got married; and he
remained posted among the missing when
Mrs. Brown took to her deathbed. The
Reaper was very, very near when the aged
woman opened her tired eyes and beheld her
long-lost husband. Hurriedly he got in his
word before she could reproach him. “I'm
sorry, dear,” he explained. “The lottery
queue was a little longer than usual.”
* *
“Where is the Anglican Archbishop of Melbourne?”
— “Herald.”
The truth is the Church has temporarily
lost its Head.
* *
OVER THE ODDS.
“She was cooking some curry in my fiat when the
wife entered and attacked us both.”
—Evidence in assault case.
Hot teas the food. He limply sat
And blackguarded the weather;
But two hot females in one flat
Proved too hot altogether.
y
ZERO HOUR.
(A Purely Imaginary Picture.)
“Colonel Campbell, of the New Guard, looked
pale and nervous as he faced the Court on a charge
of using insulting words about Mr. Lang.”
—“Labor Daily.”
Fear, stark fear, brooded over the Camp-
bell manage. The Colonel was for it. He
had been detailed to go over the top that
morning, and zero hour was 10 a.m. In 45
,brief minutes he would be in the thick of it.
Footsteps in the hall. A wan face appears
wearing a travesty of a smile. “Eggs and
bacon, dear ?” The nerve-torn warrior
shivers —yet a summer sun is blazing out-
side! “Don’t talk to me of eggs,” he
quavers, “much less bacon. Where’s the
rum ?” They ply him with the fiery spirit.
Gradually his hands cease to shake, a touch
of color appears in his ashen cheeks. (Thirty
minutes to go.)
“After all, dear, others have gone through
with it. Remember when mother parked
her car for five hours in Pitt-street in a •no-
parking’ area, facing the wrong way and a
yard from the kerb” But he is pre-
occupied with his own grim
thoughts. “More rum,” he mut-
ters, “and lace it with brandy.”
(Twenty minutes to go.) “A hop-
over in France must have been
just as terrifying, dear.” Sobbing
in the hall: the general (not a
military colleague but the faith-
ful family retainer ) has broken
down. ('Fifteen minutes to go.)
And now the Colonel rises, his
mouth resolute, and makes ready
for whatever Fate may have in
store
Ten minutes later, pale yet
determined. he is struggling
through the Summons Court's
customary quota of umpteen hun-
dred traffic cases ready to pay to
the uttermost —aye, up to the
maximum amount of £5 pre-
scribed by the Act —if so be that
Mr. Laidlaw, S.M., should de-
mand the ultimate sacrifice of
him.
* &
Darlinghurst has two main fea-
turos besides gangsters these days
—minnie golf courses that have bust, and
minnie businesses that are about to.
* *
“Mr. Lang Silent.” — “Argus” headline.
But the man must sleep sometimes!
* *
“The maintenance man was tipped from his dray
on to the road.”
It is sometimes. called putting a man on
his metal.
* ¥
“Jumping from the vessel to .the wharf he collided
with a church dignitary who was there farewelling
a friend.” — “World.”
A billiardist, no doubt! As (whoosh!)
He leapt and fell the man on.
He did not cannon off the cush ,
But cushioned off the Canon!
* #
NEW CABINET.
Let Mr. Lang keep abreast of the times
and rearrange the N.S.W. Cabinet. Most
of our chief industries are not represented
at all. As against which we have a Minister
for Public Works, with no public works going-
on ; a Minister for Mines, though the indus-
try was queered by strikes long ago, and a
Minister for Labor and Industry (H'a!
Ha!). Here’s an idea for an up-to-the-
minute Ministry:—
Premier and Pony-measurer.
Minister for the Dole.
Minister for Tin Hares.
Minister for Fruit Machines.
Minister for Night Trots.
Minister for Happy Valley Housing.
Minister for State Lottery.
Minister for Art Unions.
Minister for Two-up.
Minister for Upper House Appointments.
Amongst its many advantages is the fact
that Jack Lang and Jock Garden could fill
all the jobs between them.
AHEAD OF SCHEDULE.
INVALID: “I suffer the torments of Hell.”
DEAR FRIEND: “What — already?”
“She was taken to Melbourne Hospital, where an
X-ray examination revealed the ring in her stomach,
Later she was charged with the theft.” — “D.T.”
It is known as acting on inside informa-
tion.
“Melbourne police are searching for an ‘angling
burglar’ whose method is to fish through open
windows with a hooked wire attached to a stick.”
—“Herald.”
Their method no doubt is to ask at clubs,
hotels, etc., for a man demonstrating the
length of a necklace that got awav.
THE BISHOP’S “SEE."
“Demos has 1000 ears.”— “Sun.”
And the same number of politicians to
bite ’em.
An amateur statistician has estimated that
if all the taxis in Melbourne were placed
end to end the theatres would soon be com-
ing out.
“Petitioner said that Percy had deserted her,
and proved a worthless husband in every way.”
As Shakspeare put it: “Who . steals my
Perce, steals trash.”
* *
“Girl shot after winning Calcutta sweep worth
£6o,ooo.”— Cable.
What of it? More than one Australian has
got shot after winning one of Whiddon’s
paltry five-thousand-pounders.
“Defendant said she discharged plaintiff because
he used to mutter.”
Got tired of lier rumble servant evidently.
* *
“United we stand, divided we fall,” is a
good motto, but Mrs. Bloggs refuses to believe
it. She points out that both
Bloggs and a bottle of beer
are capable of standing so
long as they are kept divided.
# W
MISFIT.
The Snailville Municipal
Council was in session, and
the newly-elected aldermen
were grappling with routine
work. One was a misfit. By
general consent he was- sadly
out of touch with the best
traditions of the municipality.
What was to be done about
him? His very first speech
had cut clean across the chief
unwritten law of the council
—of nil councils. Yes; in his
madness he had pressed
strongly for repairs to be
made to a certain street, and
for the construction of con-
crete footpaths contiguous
thereto, when, as one and all
knew, it wasn’t the street he
lived in!
“Owing to the reopening of the G. S Bank,
cricketer Solomon is unavailable for the N.S.W.
XI.”
The bank needs the wisdom of Solomon
these days.
QUEST OF 2548.
“Gentleman requires airy room, washing, bath,
etc., where good English is spoken; near water,
2548.”— “5. M. Herald.”
Not for 251/8 the crowd-
Ed hoarding-house, ivhcre speech is loud
And language free. It makes him wild
To hear Will Shakspeare’s tongue defiled.
An airy room is what he craves,
By lake or stream or surging leaves,
’Midst those who talk of everything
In the pure English of the King.
To meet in full his few desires,
This cultured gentleman requires
Of those whose speech is better far
Than most, a hath, etcetera.
Where may he dwell and never hear
A voice uncouth to jar his ear?
Lord only knows! Let’s hope kind Fate
Stands by genteel 25J/8.
THE NEW BABY.
The bore who used to tell us of Ids baby's
cunning ways —
Of how it lisped quite plainly “Dad” or
“Mum,”
Or brought the first wee molar out before
its parents’ gaze —
A relic of past ages has become.
The clever baby of to-day breaks records
left and right ,
Saves on the juice, and chimbs in “top” the
steepest hills in sight!


The Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
Bulletin TXliTffinqs
252 Georqe Street.
S - Y D N &
See announcement page 13.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
CANADA
m
S8
AU
RA
IA
Linking the industry
OF TWO DOMINIONS . .
Three sound reasons why
it is “good business ” for
you to own a Ford
Reason 1. A British Empire Car .
The Ford is built in Australia and Canada, its
British content ranging as high as 95%, of
which 78% is Australian-made.
Ford Motor Company of Canada Ltd., is a
British organisation, manufacturing in its own
plants, and almost entirely from Canadian raw
materials, engines, frames, radiators, front and
rear axles, steel-spoke wheels and other chassis
parts for export to Australia and other British
Dominions.
Australian parts of the Ford include bodies,
tyres, springs, batteries, bumpers, spark plugs,
bolts and nuts, paints, nickel fittings and up-
holstery materials—all providing employment
for Australians in Australian mills and
factories So Australia and
Canada are linked in producing this truly
British Empire Car.
Reason 2. Economy.
The Ford gives you everything a big car can
provide and at half the big car’s running cost.
Neither a baby car nor a big car but combin-
ing the best qualities of both—the comfort,
power and roominess of the heavy car; the low
price and economy of the small.
The Ford’s registration, insurance and depre-
ciation are low; petrol consumption is 20 to 30
miles per gallon; its resale value is definitely
the highest of any car on the market; service
costs less than with any other car.
Reason 3. Performance.
The Ford tours at 50 to 55 miles per hour for
hours on end; jumps to 60 and more when a
burst of speed is required; accelerates to 40
like a flash in second gear; takes roughest
roads at speed with perfect comfort; climbs
steepest hills with ease; is easy to handle and
always in safe control.
Ford Prices range from £2lB to £315, Completely equipped , F. 0.8. Ford Works, Sales Tax Extra.
ê
THE BRITISH EMPIRE CAR
□
95 1
78
BRITISH
AUSTRALIAN
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
n .0.53
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Keepers of Youth. - ' at Sydney Hay-
market, is the film version of Arnold Ridlej s
attack on a type of school that stands
higher than a grammar school but lower
than a public school in the esteem
of most British parents. A sort of
twentieth-century Dotheboys Hall. J-lie
dramatist’s message is conveyed in a study
of a few weeks in the lives of the
masters from the beginning of a term on-
wards. The headmaster (John Turnbull) is
an unctuous prig. Carry Marsh, as the
games master, knows of a dark episode m his
past and tyrannises over him on the strength
of it. The second master (O. B. Clarence)
is a cringing sneak; Herbert Ross is old and
disillusioned; Vaughan Powell is one of
those fussy weaklings whose class-rooms are
in a permanent state of disorder. A new
blaster (Robin Irvine), young and full of
high ideals, joins this sorry band at the
same time as Anne Todd, the assistant
matron. The games master forces his way
into Anne’s room, and behaves outrageously all
round, but you like him by comparison with
some of the others. He is without hypocri-
sies, and is used by the dramatist to pour
scorn on school cant. Schools of the sort are
like empires. They are essentially business
concerns, but those in charge like to repre-
sent them as existing chiefly for the incul-
cation of religion and the higher moralities.
Critics such as Ridley and Waugh are treated
as traitors, kicked out of Old Boys’ Asso-
ciations and so on, but their activities pro-
bably do good in the end. The games master
may be a shade overdone, but that is the
fault of his lines. Garry Marsh’s acting is
masterly. The performances of John Turn-
bull and O. B. Clarence also come very near
perfection. Robin Irvine, who pairs off with
the persecuted Anne at the finish, is the only
stagey member of the cast. Hollywood has
never done such an honest bit of work as
this.
“Creeping Shadows,” the other Hay market
feature, is by the horror specialist who wrote
“The Ghost Train.” Lester Matthews is
first seen in America fleeing from the ven-
geance of the Limping Man and others
whom lie has wronged. The Shadows begin
creeping after him at an English country
house where he is entertaining some friends
and his fiancee, Margot Graliame ; and what
with the sinister conduct of the butler, the
strange visitors, the inexplicable deaths, and
the prolonged screams of the ladies there is
plenty of excitement. The end is happy,
though justice is done; but it wouldn’t be
fair to say how it is managed.
* * #
At the Regent, Sydney, Will Rogers, as
“Ambassador Bill,” goes to Sylvania. in the
Balkans, to get a trade treaty for his coun-
try. The ceremonial of the Court, a daily
revolution and a Yankee Senator pro-
vide him with material for quips and
homilies. Having a heart of gold under his
skittish exterior, he gains the friendship of
the boy-king (Tad Alexander) and the
queen-regent (Marguerite Churchill), and
guesses she still loves her husband, ex-King
Lothar, in spite of his infidelities. Lothar
lias renounced the throne, and is in exile.
He returns to protest his love for the queen,
and is in danger of capture by dictator De
Polikoff (Von Seyff ertitz), but Will aids
him to escape. Pitying the boy-king's un-
natural existence, Rogers teaches the youth
baseball. The conviction of the average
American movie-director that one touch of
baseball makes the whole world kin is
pathetic but ineradicable. The plot moves
on. The dictator’s girl friend (Greta Nis-
son) compromises Will, and the Senator
demands Will’s resignation. Lothar strikes
to regain the throne. The boy-king
enters the fray with liis- toy gun to fight for
his ma. Will saves him, and Lothar tri-
umphs, is happily reunited to the queen, and
grants the treaty to reinstated Ambassador
Bill.
. “Left-over Ladies” ((Fox), the minor
attraction at the Regent, deals with a circle
of New York pleasure-hunters, the majority
of whom are either divorced or heading that
way. At the opening, Patricia, who has
just gained her freedom, is seen making her
farewell to Ronnie, her former husband. She
has literary ambitions, and thinks that plots
will come to her more freely if she is re-
lieved of domestic responsibilities. As a
writer she is a dud. but she gets into print
over her name articles written by a frieridly
newspaperman. He wants to .set up house
with her, but she has reserved her affections
for her next-door neighbor, Jerry, another
divorcee, who dabbles in literature. But
Jerry’s wife, whose gentleman friend has
linked up with Ronnie’s chorus-girl, returns
and is taken back by Jerry for the sake of
their child. This leaves Pat in the lurch
and very hard up, so she goes back to her
ainmjfwS
Byron, Marjorie Rambeau, Roscoe Earns
and Aian Mowbray is better than the theme
deserves
* *
Supporting “Men Like These,” at Sydney
Lyceum. is “Out of the Blue,” a British
International musicomedy, with singing by
Jessie Matthews and Gene Gerrard. lie,
a radio uncle, gets drunk and engaged to
fluffy Angela Tucker (Ray Hammond),
visits her ancestral home and finds he pre-
fers her sister “Tommy” (Miss Matthews).
Tommy had never met him before, but had
fallen in love with his voice as it. came over
the air each evening. Finding he is Angelas
intended and lost to her for ever, she accepts
a job as a singer in a Biarritz hotel. That s
all, save that after a qu-antity of irrelevant
fooling Tommy and the radio uncle click,
#
,
This week patrons of the State Newsreel
Tlieatrette, Sydney, are provided with a
glimpse of the exiled ex-Kaiser. William is
s i l()wn lifting a straw-hat in salutation to his
has a very snowy thatch these days—is seen
feeding the ducks m a pond in his. gulden,
He receives visitors, goes motoring and
finally fades out while inspecting his garden
with his wife. Scull in and Jimmy Thomas
are revealed in the midst of a wireless-tele-
phone conversation, tennis champion Bunny
Austin's marriage to Phyllis Konstam is
depicted, and an impressive view is artorded
of the funeral of Captain Jacka, V.C. The
camera also catches Stanley Bruce arriving
in Melbourne, a meeting of the new Federal
Cabinet, and sprinter Jimmy Carlton win-
ning a race.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A humble hodman’s yarn. The much-
barbered and magnificently tailored building-
contractor “Bill” Jennings, erst of Sydney,
now of Salt Lake City, was a perfect terror
PLAIN WORDS FROM THE BENCH.
HIS WORSHIP (to prisoner ): “Obscane langwidge av all langwidges is the langwidge
above all langwidges that the Law must put its fut down upon wid a firrum hand.
Six months!” [“Hop.”—17/12/’92.]
to spell-breatliing workmen. He visited
several times each day any large work of
bl s > all< l a .l tbe times of his calls no man
dared straighten his back. One morning he
was thunder-stricken at seeing on a first-
storey staging a bricky leaning against a
post and smoking the_ pipe of placid con-
tentment. Up the ladder ran the irate boss,
iifif re J ?i 0U are you?’’ “Bricklayer.”
Mm! that s 12s. a dav (It was in those
halcyon days.) \\ ell 111 pay you off, and
clear out. To-day’s Thursday”
(Fridays were pay-days). “That’s five days,
Heres £3; now, quit!” The bricky took the
money and slithered down into the street,
Just then the foreman came down another
ladder froin the second storey, and on him
tinned the turning boss. What d you mean,
sn-, by employing loafers? I found a great
hulking bricklayer smoking away here So
Ive pmd him off, and run him out.” “Who?’
There, see that fellow swinging up the
street as jauntily as an owned dog? That’s
the fellow.” “You paid him off sir?” “Yes,
the d— loafer.” “Oh, well, that feller ain’t
employed here; he came here half an hour
ago and asked for a job, and I went round
to see if I could put him on.” [2G/8/’93 ]
~ ™ , , ..
Some Englishmen have very crude ideas
as to what may happen to them in this
awful country [writes Sappho Smith ]. A
larky girl who spent the summer in Rowral
1 oils of a solemn and affrighted English
youth who took a run out from Home. He
was so prim and .startled-looking that she
set out to flirt with him on the broadest
methods, and one moonlit evening, on the
verandah, she reached the climax of gush-
ingly keeping a seat free for dear Mr. Blank,
who really must sit next to her all the
evening. But at this juncture the startled
son of Albion drew his host aside and
told him in a hoarse voice that the thing
had gone far enough. “I don’t know where
she’ll stop, don’tcherknow, old chap.” he
said, helplessly. “They told me, coming out
on the steamah, that the Australian girls
propose to a fellah —and that would be so
doosid awkward, don’tcherknow.” lie went
back ’Ome per next boat- —driven out of the
country by fear of the matrimonial ten-
dencies of Australian femininity. But sup-
posing, for the sake of argument, that local
belledom really is minded to observe Leap
Year all the time, there is a similar indict-
ment against English women, too. A well-
gilt lawyer who recently had a run to Europe
told me that a perfect lady proposed to
him in the hunting-field after an acquaint-
ance of 15 minutes! She rode up to him and
said coolly, “Don’t you think with your
money and mine we would be jolly happy
together?” But the wary youth from Aus-
tralia didn’t see it in that light, and the
dashing widow probably soothed her wounded
feelings, if she had any, by telling her
cronies that she had actually refused poor
dear Mr. Parchment three times! [l/4/’93.]
When Thompson Moore, ex-M.L.A.
(Vic.), had stores at Bendigo and Maldon,
40 years ago a Yankee digger (an ex-“lag”
from Tasmania) asked Moore to put away
a bag of gold in his safe for him. A couple
of days later the ’Murkan gentleman called
and borrowed £25 from Moore, saying he
wanted to go to Maldon in a hurry. After
the digger had gone Moore thought he’d have
a look at the gold. He opened the bag arid
found it contained pieces of lead. Moore
mounted his nag quickly and rode off to
Maldon. “Have you had any visitors
lately?” said he to his partner. “Only
Jim Wilson, the Yankee,” was the reply.
“Did he borrow anything?” “Forty pounds.”
“Then you’re struck.” “No fear,” said the
partner, “I’ve got his gold!” “Let’s see it,”
said Moore. The partner produced another
bag of lead, which Tasmanian Jim had pre-
viously placed in his care. Even now Moore
Bros, would be glad to hear of Mr. James
Wilson. [l/7/’93.]
Forty-one years ago four penniless pros-
pectors, .Clarkson, Hunt, Cobley and White,
found the first gold on the Thames (Maori-
land). It was a great and wonderful find.
The Caledonian mine alone, on that magni-
ficent field, yielded about three and a half
millions in gold, and it was only one —
though the richest —among a number of dis-
coverics. The four prospectors, in a few
months after their strike, were worth
£40,000 a man, and Clarkson’s pickaxe and
shovel, which had turned up the first deposit,
were reverently deposited in Auckland
museum, where they, attracted much atten-
tion for many years as the beginning of the
province’s greatness. But a year or two
ago an old, feeble, discouraged-looking man
appeared at the museum and asked that the
said pick and shovel should be returned to
him, as he wanted to go and potter over
the exhausted goldfield for a living, and was
too poor to buy a new set. of tools. The old
man was Clarkson. Whether he got his
pick and shovel back isn’t recorded Of his
three mates. White had died mad, Hunt was
making a precarious livelihood prospecting
in Australia, and Coblev was unaccounted
for. This sort of thing is the saddest part
of the gold industry. [S/4/’93.]
__
4 n , . , x ,
A well ' kl ) oWJ , l magistrate, recently de-
cea?ea: waa in the habit of going on a grand
tear. One night he and a friend
l\ ad a ver - v copious drunk together, and as
e ,? A ere ye “[ n S 111 the street after the
festivity a policeman came along. Recog-
nLsil‘g the magistrate, he was about to sheer
off. when that functionary beckoned him
with an unsteady hand, and calmly gave his
friend in charge for being drunk and dis-
orderly. Next morning the friend was
brought up before his late companion in
intoxication, who sternly admonished him
concerning the inadvisability of making a
beast of himself in public places and fined
him £l. Then the prisoner sent’up a note
to the Bench : “Dear . You were drunk
yourself. Isn’t £l. rather high.’ Promptly
another note came back: “Dear , You
were caught; I wasn’t. £1 is very cheap
under the circumstances.”—[l9/5/’94.]
Probably amongst Australian bushmen no
squatter was ever held in higher estima-
tion than “Good old Jacky Dow,” and,
excepting Jiriimy Tyson or Lauchy Mcßean,
no other is the hero of so many bush yarns.
Here are one or two of them: Jacky Dow
was always ready to listen to appeals for a
job, but in almost every case wpfild express
his disbelief in the genuiness of" the appli-
cant’s desire for work, and, by way of test,
would sometimes set absurd tasks. Thus a
swagman on one occasion, after the usual
feed, was shown a big heap of firewood-and
directed to pile it up against the kitchen
wall. He set-to with a will, and an hour’s
hard work completed the job. Jacky ex-
pressed his satisfaction and told his new
hand to shift the wood back where he got
it from. . There was a stare of astonish-
ment, but the boss was all serene, so the
SEASONABLE ITEM.
HIGGINS: “Hallo, Dobbs, you’re looking
seedy: are you feeling unwell?”
DOBBS (just back from, races, dejectedly):
“No, I’m feeling the bottom of my
pocket.” [Alf Vincent. —26/11/’92.]
wood was put back. When that was done,
the orders were to pile it up against the
wall again, and so Jacky kept the game
going for three or four hours, till at last
the victim put on his coat and remarked
that “This ere job was too bloomin’ mut-
tonous.” Jacky paid him and sent him
away, saying blandly : “Ah ! I thought you
didn’t want work.” On another occasion,
after the usual colloquy, he set two men, one
to sit on a gate and the other to swing it
back and forward, and to continue at this till
something else was found for them to do. The
men grinned but took the contract. After
an hour or so, the division of labor appeared
to the swinger inequitable, and he made
overtures to his mate to take a turn at
swinging while he did some pf the sitting;
but the mate naturally objected, so the
other, after some high words, knocked him
off the gate, and there was a great and
glorious fight. Presently, having battered
each other to their mutual satisfaction, the
two appeared before Jacky, who affected sur-
prise at their leaving their work! But
they said they saw no points in it, so he
let them go, telling them also that he
“thought they didn’t want work.” Another
casual had a pannikin given him with in-
structions to dip water out of the river
Murrumbidgee and to keep on doing so till
some other job turned up. The “bushie”
looked Jacky square in the eye. “Looky
here, Jacky Dow,” he said. “They do
say you're off your nanny, and blow me if I
don’t believe it now. Set a man to bale out
a river! Well, I’m •!” But Jacky only
replied with the invariable formula: “Ah*!
I thought you didn’t want work.” But he
met his match for once, when he was
accosted by an unmistakable Yankee, who
respectfully inquired if there was “any kind
of a job hanging around” —he was “willing
to turn his hand to anything,” and so on.
Jacky, after the usual incredulous remarks,
set him to turn the handle of the grindstone.
The Yankee made no sort of objection, and
Dow left him turning as if he had no other
object in life, and whistling “Yankee Doodle.”
In about a couple of hours Jacky came back,
and there was his new acquaintance com-
fortably perched on a board fixed in the
framework of the grindstone, reading an
ancient paper and the grindstone going at
about five hundred revolutions a minute.
The son of the land of “notions” had rigged
up a rough but effective “treadle,” and was
working it at his case with his foot. Jacky
took it all in without a smile. Said he.
“Here, my man, you’re the very chap I
want,” and thereafter the downeaster was
permanently engaged. On another occasion,
after being asked for work, Jacky told the
applicant to go over to a big patch of
scrub, hunt for a lost bullock and not return
until dinner-time. At tucker-hour Jacky
interviewed him. “Find the bullock?” “No,
Boss.” “Did ye look in all the likely places?”
“Yes, Boss.” “Well, get your grub and go
and look in all the unlikely ones.” Two
hours later the bullock-prospector was found
by Jacky lying on his back under a big
messmate-tree. “What are you doing?
You’re not looking for that bullock,” yelled
Jacky. “You don’t want work, I can see.”
“Yes, I do, Boss; I’m obeyin’ orders. You
told me to search in all the unlikely spots,
so I’m looking for the blessed cow up this
’ere tree.” [2S/4/’94.]
A story _ comes from Adelaide [writes
Sappho Smith] about a jealous tailor who
suspected his wife so unreasonably that she
resolved to teach him a ‘lesson. As he
entered his room one evening he saw a tall
and well-dressed man looming through the
gloom of the apartment where his suspected
wife was sleeping with one eye open. With
a rush the ninth part of a man hurled the
base deceiver with much force against the
wall. And then a silvery voice was heard
to say: “There you go! And our most
natural-looking dummy, too !” rB/4/’93.]
Casey’s Hotel, corner of George and Liver-
pool streets, Sydney, was pulled down the
other day, and the material sold. A man
bought a single girder for 6s. Last week,
when he undertook to reduce it, he noticed
an old tin plate tacked on one face, and
on removing it withdrew from this “safe
deposit” a bundle of old B.N.S.W. and Com-
mercial Bank notes amounting to £1000.
[27/l/’94.]
Archie Hall, one of Cobb and Co.’s coach-
drivers of the gold-digging and bushranging
era, is now manager of Wellington (M.L.)
tramways. It was he who, in the early
days, could alone get the N.S.W. and
Victorian mails through without accident.
When the ’rangers would bail him up, he
always answered their questions truthfully
—such as when and where he had passed
the gold escort. He never informed on them
at headquarters, and for this he was once
arrested by the Victorian Government, but
on explaining that if he hesitated about
giving the required information, or reported
what gang it was that asked for it, he never
ASKING TOO MUCH.
INDIGNANT LANDLORD: “Here, you didn’t
pay for that beer.”
CUSTOMER: “You've paid for it, haven’t
you?”
INDIGNANT LANDLORD: “Certainly I have.”
CUSTOMER: “Well, it doesn’t want to be
paid for twice.”
[G. R. Ashton. —16/7/’92.]
would be able to get the mails delivered,
they let him off. He is an old man now,
but if pushed in the holiday times, or when
shorthanded, he will take a tram out himself.
[B/4/’93.]
WESTWARD HO!
There’s a damper in the ashes, tea and sugar
in the bags,
There’s whips of feed and shelter on the
sand ridge for the nags,
There’s gidya wood about us and water close
at hand,
And just one bottle left yet of the good
Glenlivet brand.
There are chops upon the embers, which
same are close-up done,
From as fine a four-tooth wether as there is
on Crossbred’s run;
’Twas a proverb on the Darling, the truth of
which I hold,
“That mutton’s aye the sweetest which was
never bought or sold.”
Out of fifty thousand wethers surely Cross-
bred shouldn’t miss
A sheep or so to travellers—faith, ’tis dainty
mutton, this—
Let’s drink a nip to Crossbred; ah, you
drain it with a grin,
Then shove along the billy, mate, and,
squatted, let’s wade in.
The night’s a trifle chilly, and the stars are
very bright,
A heavy dew is falling, but the fly is rigged
aright;
You may rest your bones till morning, then
if you chance to wake,
Give me a call about the time that daylight
starts to break.
We may not camp to-morrow, for we’ve many
a mile to go
Ere we turn our horses’ heads round to
make tracks for down below.
There’s many a watercourse to cross, and
many a black-soil plain,
And many a mile of mulga-ridge ere we get
back again.
That time five moons shall wax and wane
we’ll finish up the work,
Have the bullocks o’er the border and truck
’em down from Bourke,
And when they’re sold at Homebush, and the
agents settle up,
Sing hey! A spell in Sydney town and Mel-
bourne for the Cup.
[5/8/’93.]
THE BREAKER.
HIS COLONIAL OATH.
I lately met an old schoolmate of mine
up-country He was much changed. He was
tall and lank, and had the most hideous
bristly red beard I ever saw. He was work-
ing on his father’s farm. He shook hands
looked anywhere but in my face—and said
nothing. Presently I remarked a t a venture •
. “So poor old Mr, B. [the schoolmaster!
is dead. ’
“My oath!” lie replied.
“He was a good old sort.”
“My oath!”
“Time goes by pretty quick, doesn’t it?”
His oath (colonial).
“Poor old Mr. B. died awfully sudden,
didn’t he?”
He looked up the hill, and said- “My
oath!”
Then he added : “My blanky oath !”
. I thought, perhaps, my city rig or manner
displeased him, so I stuck my hands in mv
pockets, spat and said, to set him at Ins
ease: “It’s blanky well hot enough to roast
a crimson carnal bullock, ain’t it?” Then
I took out a cake of tobacco, bit off a quarter
and pretended to cliew. He replied:
“My oath!”
The conversation flagged here. But pre-
sently, to my great surprise, he came to
the rescue with:
“He finished me, ye know.”
“Finished? Iiow? Who?”
He looked down towards the river, thought
(if he did think), and said:
“Finished me edyercation, yer know.”
“Oh! You mean Mr. B.?”
“My oath —he finished me first-rate.”
“He turned out a good many scholars,
didn’t he?”
“My oath. I’m thinkin’ about goin’ down
to the trainin’ school.”
“You ought to —I would if I were you.”
“My oath.”
“Those were good old times,” I hazarded;
“you remember the old bark school?”
He looked away across the siding and was
evidently getting uneasy. He shifted about
and said:
“Well, I must be goin’.”
“I suppose you’re pretty busy now?”
“My oath. So long.”
“Well, good-bye. We must have a yarn
some day.”
“My oath.”
He got away as quickly as he could.
I wonder whether he wad changed, after
all! Or was it I ? A man does seem to
get out of touch with the bush after living
in cities for eight or ten years.
[12/8/’93.]
HENRY LAWSON.
THE SINGER.
The song that I sing I know not,
For I am the harp alone;
The chords God strikes I trow not;
Not mine is the music’s tone.
Yea, I am His harp only,
Who plays His chosen tune,
Be mine own self merry or lonely,
Be my time night or noon.
But His keynote is ever human,
Since ever the world began—
It is either the heart of a woman,
Or else the soul of a man.
riG^2/’93.]
STEELE GREY.


ë
ANNOUNCING P, & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
puuey of the P. and C. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
PRODUCERS & 1 CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & O. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents; Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and v
=£=• Agency Co., Ltd.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Royal Easter Show
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
21st TO 30th MARCH, 1932.
Nine Days Five Nights.
£14,000 —Prizes—£ 14,000
Entries Close:
HORSES (including Trotting events) 13th February
CATTLE and PIGS 15th February
POULTRY, PIGEONS, CANARIES and CAGE BIRDS, 19th and 20th February
DOGS and CATS 22nd February
AGRICULTURE (other than Wheat), including FRUIT and
APICULTURE 19th February
DAIRY PRODUCE (except Export classes) 19th February
WOOD-CHOPPING CONTESTS 29th February
Schedules and Entry Forms on Application.
Endeavour House, G. C. SOMERVILLE,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney. Secretary.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
WHEAT FOR PIGS.
Wheat is as good as maize as a feed
for pigs “from the time of weaning till
they reach the porker stage.” This is the
established result of an experiment carried
out at Hawkesbuly Agricultural College,
and it is of the greatest importance to all
Australian wheatgrowers.
Four litters were used in the experi-
ment, each being halved. One half was
fed on wheat and separated milk and the
other on maize and separated milk, green
feed being supplied to both ; in other words,
the rations were identical, except that
wheat was used in one and maize in the
other. The wheat and maize were fed
dry and untreated.
The wheat ration was fed to five pigs out
of a Tamworth-Poland China sow by a
Berkshire boar; to four out of a Tamworth
sow by a Berkshire boar; to five purebred
Berksliires; and to five out of a Tamworth-
Poland China sow by a Tamworth boar.
The maize ration was fed to five out of a
Tamworth-Poland China sow by a Berk-
shire boar; to three out of a Tamworth sow
by a Berkshire boar; ■to four purebred
Berksliires; to five out of a Tamworth-
Poland China sow by a Tamworth boar.
“In every case” (Veterinary-Surgeon
Whitehouse and Piggery-Instructor Bostock
report in the N.S.W. “Agricultural Gaz-
ette”) “it took less food to produce one pound
gain in live weight when wheat was used.
The purebred Berkshire pigs consumed less
per pound gain when wheat was an ingredi-
ent of the ration, and made the largest
profit per pound gain in live weight. As
regards profit per pound gain, the Berk-
shires were followed by the Tamworth-
Poland China comebacks, t;he Borkxhire-
Tamworth crossbreds, and the pigs Berk-
shire ex Tamworth-Poland China sow
respectively. In the’ case of the maize
ration, the Berkshire-Tamwortli crossbreds
consumed less food per pound gain than
any other pigs, and made the greatest profit
per pound gain in live weight. They were
followed respectively by the Tamworth
ex Tamworth-Poland China pigs, and the
purebred Berkshire pigs. Observations
apparently indicate that the crossbred pigs
are able to utilise the harder grain to
better advantage than are the purebred pigs.”
The wheat-fed Berksliires consumed 8.3
pounds of feed, at a cost of 0.255 d. per
pound, to produce a pound of gain and
showed a profit per pound gained of 2.349 d.
The maize-fed Berksliires consumed 9.92
pounds of feed at a cost of 0.401 d. per
pound to produce a pound of gain, the
profit per pound gained being 0.479 d. Prices
of the various ingredients of the ration
worked out at: Wheat, 2s. 3d. a bushel;
maize, 4s. a bushel; separated milk, 2d. a
gallon; green feed, £1 a ton.
A representative pig was taken from each
pen, weighed, slaughtered and weighed
again after dressing, and observations
recorded as to the quality of the flesh, fat
and bone. It was found that “the flesh of
the pigs fed on the wheat ration was of
a much finer grain, the fat less oily, and the
bone more finely textured and harder” as
compared with the pigs fed on the maize
ration.
The carcase of a wheat-fed Berk-Tarn
pig is described as “outstanding in its
excellence, and typical of the class desired
for present-day market requirements.”
“In every case, comparing half-litters of
similar breeding, the wheat-fed pigs gave
a greater gain per pound of feed ingested
than did the maize-fed pigs,” say the Gov-
ernment officers in conclusion. “The cost
per pound gained was, in comparable litters,
in favor of wheat. Maize was more
completely digested than wheat; whole wheat,
dry, is perhaps not the most economical
method of feeding wheat. Throughout the
test the pigs could be differentiated by the
excellent bloom of those ingesting the
maize ration, and the evenness of conforma-
tion of those on the wheat ration, though the
difference was not marked at any time. It
is thought this experiment produces suffi-
cient evidence to show that wheat can be
properly utilised as a pig feed and that it
is quite equal to maize.”
INSURANCE AGAINST DROUGHT.
“Valerin” : Is it possible to work out a
scheme to. insure wheat crops against loss
by drought? Many people declare the thing
impracticable, but is it? Visiting Rotli-
amsted some years ago I mentioned the
matter to the director, Sir John Russell, who
took me along to Dr. Fisher, an eminent
statist. Dr. Fisher told me he had been
studying the subject for_ a number ot
years, and considered insurance quite
feasible. „ . .. , ~
Dr. Fisher suggested the division ot the
country into zones according to rainfall and
yields, with special reference to the lntiu-
ence of rainfall for each growing month on
the yield. The sole basis of the scheme
would be climatic conditions as regards
paucity or overabundance of rain; methods
of farming, varieties of wheat, and similar
factors would be of secondary_ importance.
For instance, if an inch of rain below the
average in October reduced the average yield
by, say, three bushels, payment would be
made on that amount no matter wliat the
actual return happened to be. .
The English authority admitted that it
would take many years of careful investi-
gation before a plan could be arrived at,
and all returns of average rainfalls and
crops would have to be authentic. He gave
me a good deal of data in. connection with
his research work as a basis for similar
work in Australia. I passed them on to the
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture, and the
incident closed.
IMPROVED PASTURES.
“Sativa”: When I took over my farm
(Central Tablelands, N.S.W.) old hands
assured me that lucerne had been tried and
had failed; The soil varies from light sandy
loam to heavy clay, with a very small area
of deep alluvial. I now have large areas
of established lucerne with a heavy carrying
capacity, and aim to make lucerne my prin-
cipal fodder plant.
My methods are crude and cheap. I fence
in small paddocks of 15 to 20 acres, and in
the early autumn, under dry conditions,
crowd in' sheep until the paddocks are bare
and trampled. I then broadcast by hand a
weight of seed according to the class of
soil —on light sandy loam or heavy clay
soils, 21b. of seed per acre; on better-class
soils, up to 101 b. per acre. After sowing 1
mill the sheep round to ensure good tramp-
ling. No plough or Cultivation is used,
After the first rain the lucerne comes away,
and whenever it shows a tendency to flower
sufficient sheep are put in to eat. it off within
three days. This practice is repeated tor
the first two years, by which time the plants
are well established. There has not been a
failure, yet after some sowings I have had
to wait three months for rain. The small
areas of alluvial soil are used for hay pur-
poses, the balance grazed rotation ally.
Results show .that land which would barely
carry one sheep per acre per annum now
grazes 40 sheep per acre ror six weeks of
the year, or five sheep per acre per annum.
On established lucerne, provided the rain-
fall is 22 inches or more, where the soil is
not deep alluvial with moisture below I
have found it a mistake to sow heavily. The
roots cannot get down deeply, and if crowded
plants will wither at the first dry spell and
will not establish strong stands for grazing.
My experience is the same with deep black
soil, which cracks badly in dry weather.
SUDAN AND OTHER GRASSES.
“Mulyan”: One hears more about pas-
palum than other introduced grasses on the
northern rivers of N.S.W., but for produc-
tiveness I don’t think it can equal Sudan
grass, which is favored by many dairymen
on the Manning. Experiments with several
summer fodder plants, by broadcasting and
drilling, were made on different farms a
few years ago, and Sudan grass excelled in
both yield and rapidity of growth. In some
instances it grew 9ft. high in 10 weeks, and
yielded 10 tons of green fodder per acre;
and this rate of growth was kept up for
four or five months, extending over at least
three cuttings. A Mt. George farmer
obtained seven tons at the first cut and
11 tons at the second, 18 tons for 19 weeks.
These crops were broadcast. On another
farm the grass, planted in rows 18in. apart,
cut 144 tons per acre. The crop was Bft.
high, the weight being in the sturdier
growth.
Grass is not usually drilled, and it would
be interesting to know what some of the
fine native grasses are capable of under this
method of cultivation. I have seen natural-
grown kangaroo grass 9ft. high and
Mitchell grass sft. high in dry areas.
These appear to me to be particularly
adapted for drilling. How many cuts and
what weight they will yield are matters
yet to be determined. The same may be
said of many other valuable indigenous
grasses, experiments with which should be
carried out, particularly in the dry parts of
the country. We have many experimental
farms in “wet” districts, none in the arid
backbloeks.
Sudan grass in fair seasons grows at the
rate of nearly a foot a week through the
summer. It can be fed down a fortnight
after sowing, and after being spelled a week
or so fed down again, and so on. Thus it
is one of the best for rotational grazing—
that is, on the good soils of the N.S.W. coastal
rivers. But provision has to be made for
winter and early spring feeding. Some dairy-
men sow Japanese millet for early spring.
This fodder grows at about half the rate
of Sudan grass, and the acre-yield is about
eight tons; but it should be grazed when it
is 9in. or a foot high.
WASTAGE IN DAIRY HERDS.
“Ten rag”: A note on the incidence of
disease among dairy cows and other causes
of wastage in Maoriland herds. A record
compiled from 2500 herds, comprising
128,000 cows, shows that wastage from all
causes during the 1929-30 .season was
10.7 p.c.; 3.7 p.c. was on account of sick-
ness or disease, including breeding troubles,
and 5.3 p.c. on account of low production.
These figures compare favorably with those
of other countries. In Denmark, for instance,
the annual wastage is stated to be 16.7 p.c.,
10 p.c. representing breeding difficulties.
In every country farmers feel the need
for more active veterinary research. Disease
troubles often defeat them. It is evident
from these figures that dairy-farmers in the
Dominion have little hesitation in culling
low-yielding cows.
CANE HARVESTERS.
“Marny": Queensland cane-growers are
anxiously looking forward to the production
of a suitable harvesting machine, light, port-
able and efficient. A machine to harvest 30
to 50 tons of cane in eight hours would meet
requirements, and would be universally
adopted if it could be got at £2OO or so.
The Falkiner machine has been mentioned
in The Bulletin, and so has the Howard.
Both Australian inventions, they are un-
questionably efficient: they will cut and top
large volumes of cane daily. But they are
too dear for our growers, too heavy, and
require expert handling. Further, their daily
output of cane, cut and topped, is much too
large for the average farmer, whose cane
supplies are regulated by the millers. He
may be called on to supply 30 tons of cane
every other day, so to be able to cut 120
tons of cane by a machine in one day would
be no advantage. In my opinion neither of
these machines will be adopted in Australia,
but they should find a market abroad, where
large sugar plantations abound —ours are
comparatively small.
I repeat that what we need is a light
machine that a grower can himself use, like
any other simple farm implement; one that
does not cost too much for upkeep, stor-
age and the like. As an experienced sugar-
man, with a knowledge of other agricul-
tural pursuits as well, I can see no great
engineering difficulties in the way; greater
difficulties have been overcome in the pro-
duction of other implements.
IMPROVING THE POTATO YIELD.
“Murphy”: Prof. Wadliam has said that
the area under potatoes in Victoria could be
halved with an increase in the total yield,
if the work were done scientifically. The
great need in our agriculture is not so much
research . as general application of what
has been proved, but is not practised. Hit-
or-miss methods of taking seed from a pit or
heap and using small whole seed instead of
cutting ’ seed from good samples-of tubers —■
these will not do. Seed potatoes should be
selected on the same principles as dairy
heifers' are selected. Definite' records of the
productive powers of individual plants and a
strict choice of the approved qualities are
essential. The potato loves potash, and it
borders on tragedy that so much of it is
lost by peeling before boiling.
There is money in potatoes if grown regu-
larly. One must strike the high prices some-
times, and even in times of low prices they
are good food for all farm animals.
PRESERVING EGGS ON THE FARM.
This can be done quite satisfactorily
writes W. C. Rugg in the Vie. “Journal of
Agriculture”) if the eggs are placed in
preservative in a fresh condition —prefer-
ably not more than 24 to 36 hours after they
are laid. According to Mr. Rugg,, the most
satisfactory method of home-preservation is
by waterglass, which is a solution of silicate
of soda, and is now sold specially for the
purpose in tins of lib. and upwards. To
prepare this preservative, lib. (about a half-
pint) should be thoroughly stirred into 1.1
gallons of boiling water. It is ready for use
when quite cold. Some recommend a
stronger solution, but there is less likelihood
of eggs having a preserved flavor if the
strength mentioned —11b. to 14 gallons—is
used. An earthenware crock or wooden tub
is the best container, but some use gal-
vanised-iron vessels, and others kerosene-
tins.
Eggs can be placed in preservative from
time to time, as they become available, but
the top layer should be below the surface of
the liquid. The receptacle should be kept
in a cool place—in a cellar for preference.
Another method is the limewater method.
Limewater is made by mixing 241 b. of
freshly slaked lime in 5 gallons of clean
cold ‘water, and stirring thoroughly for
three-quarters of an hour. The mixture
should then be allowed to settle for about 12
hours, and the clear liquid poured off and
used in the same way as set out for the
water-glass solution.
Another method is to cover each egg with
a thin, coating of lard, glycerine or vaseline.
Whatever method is adopted, the eggs must
be kept in a cool place at a temperature of
40 to 45 degrees. A high temperature will
very quickly have a detrimental effect on
all eggs, more particularly fertilised eggs.
TIIE OUTBACK MEDICINE-CHEST.
“C. Sandig” : First provide a good air-tight
cupboard, out of reach of the younger mem-
bers of the family, and unlocked. The con-
tents should be neatly arranged, well
labelled and easy of access. In emergency
the chief requirements are eommonsense and
cleanliness.
You will need (1) strapping (or adhesive
tape), 3in. wide in 10-yard lengths—this
is very handy when there are acute pains in
the chest, sprains or strains, or cuts. Also
(2) a few bayonet-pointed needles, together
with some Horsehair (gathered from the
tail of a stallion or gelding and boiled for
20 minutes, then stored) ; (3) a reel of silk
thread (useful in closing gaping wounds) ;
(4) a small pair of scissors ; (5) a packet of
cotton-wool; (0) ,a piece of jaconet. _ All
drugs should be tightly corked. It is a
good scheme to pour from the side opposite
the label when using the bottled contents,
so as to prevent disfigurement of the label.
Argyrol, 20 p.c., will be found invaluable for
use in painful eyes, especially after a
foreign body has been removed, although
bathing with a weak solution of boracic
acid (a box of which lasts for a long time)
is soothing. Boracic acid is not very effective
in conditions where pus is present.
Aspirin needs only to be mentioned. When
taken in conjunction with quinine in hot
drinks it will abort many a cold, provided
bed is sought at once. Brandy is essential;
also castor oil (but don’t be in a hurry to use
it when a stomach-ache with vomiting occurs)
and Friar’s balsam. Oil of cloves will
relieve a toothache; sal volatile is useful;
lead and opium lotion will be found invalu-
able when used as a compress on swollen
joints and bruises; methylated spirits
applied at once is good for sunburn and it
also cleans wounds; glycerine is very effi-
cient in dressing wounds, especially when
used with as much Epsom salts as can be
dissolved in it. Excellent for boils and
carbuncles, it must not be used for longer
than three days, as the wound becomes raw;
but then the wound can be dried with
boracic powder. And you will need perman-
ganate of potash for snake-bite and mouth
washes. In snake-bite poisoning the ligature
must be applied where there is only one
bone present— c.g., the thigh and upper arm.
At other sites the arteries are embedded
beneath the muscles and not constricted.
Tincture of iodine is invaluable. And
don’t forget such good old household remedies
as a teaspoon of salt to a pint of hot water
in inflammation, and a gargle of a teaspoon
of kerosene in cases of sore throat. Bran
can be used for poultices, and long strips of
clean worn sheets, in varying widths, tightly
rolled, for bandages. The chief essential is
having everything to hand when wanted.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How is charcoal prepared for use in pro-
ducer-gas engines ?—7667.
It should be free from all earth, sand and
other dirt, which when present in the fuel
leads to the formation of clinker in the fur-
nace of the producer. It is. therefore, desir
able that it be prepared in some kind of
enclosed metal retort. A small portable
retort is manufactured by Charcoal Traction
Engineers, of 118-124 Toorak-road, South
Yarra (Vic.).
I have a horse with lumps in the throat.
Nearly every horse in my district has them.
I have been told that this is due to iodine
deficiency. What’s the cure? —77B3.
The iodine deficiency theory seems as likely
as any other. Get some iodide of potassium
from a wholesale chemist and mix it with
salt in the proportion of 5 of iodide to 95
of salt. The dose should be one or two
tablespoons twice daily.
(1) In chaff-cutting on contract in Vic-
toria what is the usual rate pet' ton? (2)
Are the men fed by the employers or do they
arrange that themselves? —7720.
(1) Charges vary according to district,
with an average of about 9s. per ton.
There is usually an extra charge of Is. per
ton for steaming, which is necessary if the
hay is very dry. (2) The hands are fed by
(Continued on page 26.)


Sm*
31
ET
For comfort, choose calf!
It makes a supple, smart, easy-fitting
shoe, and this exclusive Abbey model
has other features which ensure still
greater comfort. The lacing is
shaped to curve over your instep
arch. There’s no risk of tightness
when closely done up. And every
full or half size is made in four
fittings so that you get your exact
width.
ORDER BY POST.
State whether you need narrow,
medium, wide or extra-wide fitting,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or
a handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 265
m
ē
Bills
PETROL
%
v<A*+rZ.
*ISI»
«aw»
You
Need New Plugs
Old or inefficient
plugs mean in-
complete combus-
tion wasted
power and petrol.
Fit a new set of
Pyrox—note the
difference they’ll
make! Pyrox
Plugs are made in
Australia by
Bosch methods
and machinery.
You can buy no
betterl
Manufactured by
PYROX PTY., LTD.
(Formerly Robert Bosch Supply and
Service Co. Pty., Ltd.)
MELBOURNE.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
ĕ
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&CIm.
if you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office!: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
"The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from "The Bulletin” Office,
all States.
1
m
Excessive Friction
Ruins Machinery
Many thousands of pounds can be
saved yearly by eliminating excessive
friction—by keeping bearings of all
kinds free from abrasive matter.
Eliminate this cause of friction from
bearings by using the ALEMITE
Systems of Lubrication, which force
into the bearings, under pressure of
3000 lbs,, fresh, clean lubricant—forcing out at the same
time, the worn-out lubricant.
Proper lubrication has become one of the greatest means
of reducing maintenance expense.
ALEMITE CORPORATION * Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: AI.MIT-Chicago
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd Brisbane
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd 394 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd,, 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED 122 Pirie Street,, Adelaide
K-AUST-Z
OF
the farmer, •who also provides wood for the
engine, In cases where this is not. possible
an extra charge per ton is made to cover the
cost of meals.
My kelpie’s tongue is sore, raw and in-
flamed around the edges. He loses control of
•■‘diva, which collects about his mouth and
constantly drips in the form of froth. Cause
and cure? —7B46.
Probably the teeth are at fault, and an
examination of the mouth by a vet. is recom-
mended. In the meantime, wash or swab
mouth with a solution of peroxide of hydro-
gen and water (1 in 6), and if any ulcers are
observed, dress them with a little powdered
chlorate of potash.
How to exterminate cockroaches ? —7767.
Fumigation is the most efficient method,
but it is dangerous and should be conducted
only by experienced persons. Next best
method is to make up a mixture in the pro-
portions of 370 z. borax, 9oz. ground starch
and 4oz. cocoa. Place in small heaps in
likely spots, and leave a few tin lids of
water near by. This must be persisted with
for several weeks to effect a complete clear-
ance.
How to make fly-paper glue? —7739.
Two parts raw linseed oil. 2 parts honey
and 8 parts resin melted together over gentle
heat. While warm, paint on to paper which
lias been coated with size—l2oz. glue to
4 pints water.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“.T.W.W.”: In these days of danger from
fire, common salt is a good ally. Mixed in
water (61b. coarse to every 10 gallons) and
sprayed on the outside of a house, barn or
other building, it is a safeguard, especially
as it leaves a thin crust on the woodwork,
making it almost non-inflammable for the
time. In the groat forest fires in Gipps-
land in 1898, houses and stacks in the
Moondarra district went up in smoke, but
one old FrenoJi-Canadian settler saved his.
A sack of salt and the water-cart, fitted with
spray-pumps, did the trick.
“Wongi”: If what I read is true, the
New Guard took fire-beaters of an obsolete
pattern to Cobar. Each corner should be
cut on to make the beater fall flat on the
flames, thus blowing out and smothering at
the same time. A springy handle made from
gumsuckers also enables a man to get in
sharp blows from wrist action only, thus
conserving energy and doing better work.
Sump oil is excellent for keeping beaters
pliable. A few lighter and smaller beaters
on long pliable handles are handy for hold-
ing a tongue of fire in check. For grass and
forest country mixed, beaters cut into strips
enable the fighter to flog round stumps and
logs.
“Werrimee” : Shelled maize cobs or cores
are quick firelighters for the kitchen, and
are handy when you want to boil the kettle
in a hurry. During one bad drought some
northern N.S.W. farmers ground the cores
and mixed the meal with treacle to feed
starving stock. I don’t know what fodder
value the dry core possesses, but the mixture
certainly kept the animals alive.
“Slieepo”: Sheepmen should avoid using
anti-blowfly preparations that contain much
mineral oil. This oil cannot be removed
without a great deal of scouring, which in
itself is bad for the wool. Whale oil, being
emulsifiable, could be satisfactorily substi-
tuted in blowfly specifics for mineral oil.
“Cass”: A young man who has recently
taken up an unnetted sheep-run adjoining
me destroyed 950 rabbits in one night. He
used Scotch thistles, well grown, but not
shot up to flower. The roots, contained in
a kerosene-tin holed as a colander and thor-
oughly washed in the dam, were sliced into
chips an inch long. A lialf-cup of brown
sugar was added to a gallon of prepared
roots; after two hours the liquid was drained
off, roots were spread in the sun on a sheet
of iron for 45min. and then put into a
container. Five teaspoons of ground strych-
nine were added separately, the container
being shaken thoroughly after each teaspoon.
One teaspoon of essence of vanilla was
added, and, just before the trail ivas laid,
six drops of oil of cummin. An ordinary
poison cart was used with the funnel
extended through the floor, one man driving
and another feeding baits to funnel —one
bait to each turn of the wheel.
“ Junee”: A man knocking about amongst
sheep should carry a pair of forceps for
removing grass-seeds from the eyes, and a
small flat oilcan fitted with leak-proof cap
filled with 2 grains of sulphate of zinc, 1
dram of tincture of opium, and 4oz. of water.
Force a couple of drops into the eye (o
clear up inflammation and remove the film
from the pupil.
“The Breaker”: Spinifex seeds, although a
trouble to collect, are as good as oats or
barley for a working horse. I saw half a
dozen racehorses worked twice a day on half-
green Mitchell grass and spinifex seeds for
15 days; the camel team was late with
fodder supplies. At the race meeting the
spinifex-eaters scooped the programme,
though opponents from another town were
on oats and corn mixed all the time.
“Sylvester”: The Queensland cocky who
wants to stretch out his skim-milk supply
for his pigs should try a patch of arrow-
root. There is a wonderful amount of food
in a quarter-acre of this vegetable, and it
may remain in the ground until required.
What I am using now was sown 16 months
ago.
“Melron”: “Dai R.” (B. 30/12/31), in
advocating the use of castor oil for treating
scours, gives sound advice, but not so when
lie advises placing the pig on its back, forc-
ing its jaws open and holding with a gag
until the oil has been poured down its throat.
A pig so treated might get pneumonia
through portion of the oil going down the
wrong road. Drench your pig in a stand-
ing position in a corner and against the
side of the wall or fence. One man should
hold the pig; the operator should place one
end of a length of garden hose, about 15in.
long, in the side of the mouth, have a funnel
attached to the other end of the hose and
pour the liquid into that; it will run direct
into the mouth. An old boot with the toe
cut out acts fairly well, but whatever is used
to do the job must be such as to allow the
pig to chew if without injuring its teeth
Anything metallic is unsuitable.
“Mulgo” : In parts of the country muddy
water lias to be used for household pur-
poses. It may be clarified with several dif-
ferent substances, including wood ashes,
alum, steel drops and lime. In the western
districts of N.S.W. copi (gypsum), which
is picked up on the low hills, is largely used
in iron tanks and casks. On a droving trip
in Queensland we made tea at two or three
places with muddy water. As soon as brown
sugar was dropped into the bucket the mud-
diness went to the bottom, leaving the tea
as clear as if it had been made with rain water.
“J. Point” : Galvanised iron continues to
be the material most favored for roofing
and many other purposes on the farm, but
as it. is at least £5 a ton dearer than it was
three years ago many farmers are deferring
the erection of improvements or are_ looking
for substitutes. The only material that
seriously challenges galvanised iron is fibro-
cement sheets, which are Australan-mad.e,
fire- and vermin-proof; but here again
farmers look askance at the price, especially
where freight is a considerable item, as fibro
sheets weigh about 161 b. per square yard. A
point in favor of galvanised iron is that it
always has a good second-hand value. In
my district second-hand sheets of no great
quality are bringing two-tliirds of the value
of new sheets.
“Coora” : Dozens of teak-trees have grown
up in my N.Q. paddocks after the original
burns, and are now ideal cattle shades. Two
peculiar things about the teak (Flindersia
australis) are that a few days after the
last yellow leaf has gone they are red with
young leaf-buds again, and that there is no
particular season for this changing of frocks.
Some of my trees are doing it now; others
will do it during June and July.
“Sylvester”: When you have to Solder
tinware about the dairy kill your spirits by
adding scraps of galvanised iron or per-
forated zinc until it ceases to boil. Washing
is not enough for articles that come in con-
tact with milk; clean with fine emery cloth
or glass paper. Clean off old solder with a
chisel or old file or hot iron. With clean
iron the job is now simple.
“Bill R.”: The best of saddle-cloths is
made out of a properly prepared wombat-
skin. Fold the pelt while green, and bury
it in sand until fermentation causes the
hair to detach easily. Scrape clean, and
tan with geebung bark. Afterwards dress
the leather with sparing applications of lub-
ricating oil or grease, and vigorous twisting
and rubbing. When thoroughly softened
the abnormally thick hide compensates for
inequalities in the saddle stuffing, and with
its use there will be no sore-backed steeds.
“Marsh”: In western Queensland I have
just seen a decent vegetable garden that
flourished when not three inches of rain fell
in 18 months. The vegetables thrived on
bore water; they were flooded at intervals.
Although the soda content of this water is
small, I am persuaded that it is possible to
grow lucerne and other fodder by utilising
bore water that is not heavy mineralised.
“Disease”: There’s a lot of brown rot in
stone fruit again. Burn it all; leaving it
about or burying it only makes trouble for
next year. Tomato prunings, diseased fruit
or wilt-stricken vines should also be burnt.
“Gardener”: Because of the ravages of
thrips in the fruit crop there’s going to be
a great demand for pie-melons for the jam
manufacturers. In N. S. Wales it’s not too
late to get them in, provided you are in a
place where winter comes early. Cape
gooseberries will be another paying line. And
don’t sentence that clump of blackberries if
it’s showing a decent load of fruit; black-
berries will also be in bigger demand.
“Bad Australian”: “Gumblegubbin’s”
method of building an adobe wall (B.
13/l/’32) is all right; but the bricks should
be oblong in shape, and where a considerable
job is tackled the services of Dobbin should
be substituted for the heart-breaking process
of incorporating straw with clay and work-
ing the whole into proper consistency by
hand. The required quantity of slightly-
moistened clay should be spread to a depth
of 12in. or 15in. and well strewn with straw,
or whatever binding material may be avail-
able. Then Dobbin and his mate should be
kept moving over the mass until it is thor-
oughly mixed. Fresh mud shovelled into
forms does not constitute pise, which is pre-
pared by pounding the materials in place with
a rammer. Each layer should be almost dry
when in the forms, containing just sufficient
moisture to facilitate binding, The best
material for pise construction is rotten
granite. Pise and adobe walls should always
be built on a foundation of masonry raised
about 12in. or 15in. above ground level;
otherwise more or less erosion will occur at
ground level.
“Nomad”: In reply to “Karaway” (B.
30/12/’3l). Red and white cobs in maize are
known to be inherited in a simple Mendelian
ratio. When a pure line of red cobs is
crossed with a pure line of white cobs, the
progeny will give all red cobs in the first
generation, but in the second generation will
split up into the ratio of three red cobs to
one white. In such a field, therefore, the red
cobs constitute 75 per cent, of the crop.
If these red cobs were self-fertilised, one-third
would breed true for red, two-thirds would
split up again in the ratio of three red to
one white. But maize is a natprally cross-
fertilised plant. A single stalk of maize is
not self-fertilised, but cross-fertilised by the
surrounding stalks in the same field. There-
fore the chances of a red cob being fertilised
by a red or a white cob in one field are as
three to one. The proportion of white cobs
will drop about 3 p.c. the first year, 2 p.c.
the second, about p.c. the third, about
p.c. the fourth, and about 1-J p.c. the
fifth, and so on, always in a progressively
decreasing amount each year, but never
reaching elimination. If white cobs con-
stituted 20 p.c. of the crop at the begin-
ning of “Karaway’s” five-year observation,
they would have dropped to about 12 p.c*.
at the end of that period, but in another
five years they would only drop to about 8
p.c., in another five years to 6 p.c., in another
five years to 5 p.c., and so on. If “Kara-
way” began his observations on a crop when
the white cobs constituted 5 p.c, of the crop,
at the end of five years they would still
constitute about p.c. This would account
for his not detecting any sensible diminu-
tion of the number of white cobs.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Girl (18), S.A., four years’ secondary-school
training, wants employment as governess, librarian
or journalist. Refs. —7839.
To buy a history of the “New Australia” experi-
ment in Paraguay.—7776.
Farmer and wife (N.S.W.), leaving farm through
hard luck, seek position anywhere. Wife can milk,
cook and bake bread; man used to machinery,
tractors, cars, etc. One child. —7827.
Girl (19), N.S.W'., wants position as domestic or
mother’s help, anywhere.—7B3o.
Words of poem “Two Years Old,” by Miss M. A.
Robert 50n.—7831.
Bandsman, soprano or E-fiat bass (N.S.W.), wants
work. Fitter, turner and oxy welder.—7Bo7-
AVhereabouts of Angus Murray, who served in 42nd
Batt., A.I.F. (Reg. No. 1071) ; sister, Melbourne,
inquiring.—7B36.
Position open in N.S.W. country town for pen-
sioned, sober, unencumbered soldier, able to type-
write, to co-operate in florist’s shop and garden.—
7885.
Carpenter and joiner (29), Vic., six years’ exp.
flour-milling and engineering, wants position in the
Islands, South America or anywhere. Used to
tropics.—7Bso.
Station overseer, N.S.W., 15 years’ exp. sheep and
cattle and agriculture, wants position anywhere.—
7866.
To buy Tasmanian edition of “Pickwick Papers,”
letters written by early convicts and books by
Barron Field. —7861.
Words of verse beginning: “Oh, it’s working early
and late, keeping up ten thousand weaners to a
hungry drafting-gate.”-—7890.
To hear from persons knowing anything about
the Perceval family and their claim to the Egmont
millions. —7756.
Information Sought.
How did members of the A.I.F. in camp in
Australia vote at the two conscription refer-
endums?—777l.
Not knoAvn. At both referendums the votes
of soldiers in camps in Australia were merged
Avitli the votes for the divisions for which
they Avere enrolled or within which they
were residents.
(1) Who, teas Van Gogh? (2) Did he do
anything besides painting? (3) Is it true
that he was insane ivlicn he painted? (4)
What was his theory of color? —7812.
(1) He was the second French artist to
be prominently connected with the modern
movement in art. (2) Yes. At one time he
Avas an evangelist in a Belgian coalmine,
and later was still an idealist who used his
pictures to preach for him. (3) Was once
in an asylum for nervous diseases. He went
there of his own accord after an attack of
sunstroke. Finally he became quite insane
and committed suicide. (4) He used color
emotionally: red to indicate warmth; blue,
remoteness, etc.
(1) How to tell “die 1” from “die 2” in
the Id. Commonwealth stamp? (2) Did
“die. 2” appear on all the penny issues? (3)
Who designed the present (a) 3d. green air-
mail and (b) The W.A. Centenary stamp?
(4) What is the value of a block of four
(id. Kingsford Smith stamps with re-entry? —
7814.
(1) Die 2 may be identified by the small
white “spur” projecting upwards to the
base of the “1” in the left-hand value shield.
(2) No. Only on the 1914 issue, 1916 issue
on rough paper and on the small multi-
crown-A watermarked issue of 1926. (3)
(a) R. A. Harrison and H. Herbert; (b)
P. Morrison. (4) Catalogued by Gibbons at
355. mint, but worth about 12s. in Aus-
tralia.
(1) How many pictures are usually sent
to the Royal Academy, London? (2) How
many are hung by academicians? (3) What
other pictures do they take? (4) How is the
judging done? (5) What kind of work has
the best chance of being accepted? —7Bl6.
(1) Several thousand every year. (2)
The academicians and associates send about
400 pictures. (3) From 800 to 1000 outside
works are selected. (4) The jury sits in a
semi-circle and a porter walks past carrying
the pictures. If the jury agrees to accept a
picture it goes straight into the galleries.
If rejected, it goes at once to the cellars.
If the jury disagree it is marked “D,” mean-
ing doubtful, and goes into the galleries to
be considered on the walls by the hanging
committee. If any one member of the jury
speaks for a picture it goes into the “D”
class, and has a second chance. (5) Every-
thing submitted has exactly the same chance.
Have the Jenolan Caves (N.S.W.) always
borne that name, and is it true that they are
so called because the name J. E. Nolan is
scrawled in one of them? —7Bls.
The abos. called the caves Binomea. and
for 50 years after their discovery in 1838 by
the captors of bushranger McKeown they
were known as the Fish River Caves. This
proved misleading, as the gully on which the
caves are situated leads to the Cox Valley,
and not to the Fish River, so the name Avas
altered to Jenolan, after the parish in which
the caves are situated.
Best first-aid treatment for wounds from
fish-spines, catfish, stingrays, etc.?— 7Bl3.
Encourage bleeding by keeping the injured
part hanging down and by soaking it in
tepid water. The wound may be sucked by
the mouth without danger. Condy’s fluid or
some alkaline solution, such as weak
ammonia or baking soda or the household
blue-bag, should be well rubbed into the
wound. If pain is persistent, hot foments
should be applied to the injured part. Strong
coffee or tea or a little spirit and water may
be given if the patient be faint. Should
serious symptoms arise, medical attention
should be obtained as soon as possible.
(1) On wnat principle do the liquid-using
types of air-cleaner fitted to some internal
combustion-engines work? (2) What are the
main advantages and disadvantages of these
cleaners as compared to the dry types? (o)
Do any of the liquid cleaners use moving
parts?— 773B. . .
(1) A rectangular box of aluminium Inn-
ing a number of gauze-backed baffle plates is
arranged in such a manner that the air is
circulated to and from the divisional spaces
between the gauze-covered plates, passing
round at opposite ends. A layer of oil is
poured into the filter, and this by capillary
attraction and splash keeps the gauze wet
and so catches hold of the dust. (2) and
(3) This is the only type of cleaner in use.
In billiards, would a ball hit just before
the time-bell rings, but which has not hit the
object ball when the bell does ring, rank as a,
scoring stroke if it should drop into a pocket
after hitting the object ball? —7763.
As long as the ball is struck before the bell
rings, any score, no matter what it may be,
resulting goes to the striker.
What is distilled water? Is rain water
caught directly in an earthenware jar dis-
tilled water? —7791.
For practical purposes it means chemi-
cally pure water obtained by condensing
steam. Rain water contains impurities.
(1) How many hours’ (solo and dual)
flying does one need to put in to get an
“A” license for pilots? (2) What is the
cost 9 (3) W’hcre can one learn to fly in
N.S. W. ? —-7664. , , , , ,
(1) About eight to ten hours’ dual, and
three to five hours’ solo. (2) Flying training
costs £3 10s. per hour dual instruction, and
£1 16s. per hour solo flying. (3) Aero
Club of N.S.W.
What is the difference between a mile
square and a square mile? —7Bol.
A mile square is a square each .side of
which measures 1760 yards. A squarejiiile
is an area of any shape containing 3,097,600
square yards. There is no difference in
area.
What is a “carpet-bagger ,” and how did
the term originate? —7743.
A person who stands for election in a
locality to which he is a stranger. The term
Avas first applied in the western States of
America to speculative bankers, who were
said to have started business with no other
property than what they could carry in a
carpet-bag, and who absconded when they
failed. After the Civil War it was fastened
on adventurers who invaded the South and
by help of the negro vote gained control of
the administration.
What kind of musical instrument is (1)
the serpent, and (2) the viol d’amore? (3)
What is Gregorian music?— 7747.
(1) A bass wooden wind instrument
covered with leather and bent in a serpentine
form. It is now practically obsolete, its
place being taken by the euphonium. Men-
delssohn used it in his works. (2) A slightly
larger form, of viola, with seven gut strings
and seven (or more) wire “resonance”
strings, passing under the finger-board and
sounding sympathetically as the gut strings
are played. It is now nearly obsolete. (3)
The traditional and official kind of music
used in ecclesiastical offices, the arrangement
and editing of which are attributed to St.
Gregory the Great. It is also called Plain-
song, The scales or modes used are non-
eliromatic.
(1) Best soils for rose-growing? (2)
Best position in garden to plant roses, and
should they be planted with other flowers?
—7733.
(1) Roses grow best in a deep, well-
drained heavy clay loam. (2) Plant in a
well-drained position, open to the sun and
air. Roses will not thrive planted amongst
other tall plants or shrubs, or in ground
where there are trees.
(1) What clothing, if any, did the abos.
wear in an uncivilised state? (2) Had the
scars on their bodies any special signifi-
cance? (3) What ornaments did they favor?
—7735.
(1) In the South, chiefly a rug of kan-
garoo- wallaby- or ’possum-skin, size accord-
ing to season, worn over one shoulder, fur-
side out; in the North, nothing. (2) These
were ornamental. Dr. W. Ramsay Smith,
of S.A., says the men’s scars braced up
joints and prevented the looseness of tissues
liable to occur in well-fed individuals to
the detriment of fighting poAvers. The N.T.
women’s scars are a record of family his-
tory. (3) For great occasions Binghi painted
and anointed his body. Ordinarily he wore
brow decorations of kangaroo teeth, neck-
laces of fur twisted into string, threaded
grass-stems or shells, armlets of skin, dingo-
tail tassels, hair belts and nosepins of wood,
bone or feather.
What is the meaning of the terms (1)
“ provisionals ” and (2) “postal fiscal ” as
applied to stamp collecting. (3) Best
method of detecting the watermark of a
stamp ? —7752.
(1) Temporary issues made available dur-
ing shortag" of regular issues. The recent
Commomvealth surcharges, 2d. on 14 d. and
sd. on 44d.. are examples. (2) Duty stamns
alloAved to be used for postal purposes. (3)
If very obscure, place the stamp face down-
Avards on a black tray on which' a little
benzine has been dropped. Most stamps
reveal their watermarks clearly when ex-
amined by transmitted light.
What, was the value of (1) fresh fish,
(2) oysters. (3) crabs, crays and prawns
produced in N.S.W. waters in the latest
year of which there is record? (4) How
many, and value, of fishermen’s licenses
issued? (5) Ditto, boats? (6) Any recent
increase in number of men or boats? (7)
Quantity and value of fish annually im-
ported and exported from, N.5.W.?— 7748.
In 1930 (1) £-322.866 10s. 7d. (2) £63,680.
(3) £58,893 4s. (id. (4) Number, 3<9< ;
fees, £859. (5) Number, 1925; tecs, £844.
(6) Yes; 473 men and 189 boats more m
1930 than in 1929. (7) Imports, 11,231,417
pounds, worth £650,926; exports, w_o,o < J
pounds, worth £9508.
What did the Wicker sham Commission,
appointed by President Hoover, decide about
prohibition? —77os.
It pronounced against the repeal or modi-
fication of the 18th Amendment, and urged
that efforts should be made for its stricter
enforcement. But individual reports of com-
missioners that were appended to it were
largely inconsistent with the text of the
document itself.
1 have a 45 ft. launch. The smell from the
bilye water is almost unbearable, I have
tried slipping and hosing without any suc-
cess. What are the causes and the cure /
7834. . ...
Probably there is fresh water m the bilges
cither from rain or leakage from a fresh-
water river. Oil from the engine covering
this will always make it smell. Another
common cause is crumbs from the table get-
ting into the bilge. Try limewater; four
or five buckets left in the bilges for a
couple of days ought to do the trick and
will kill the oil. Failing this, put the boat
on tlio slip, clean out bilges with hose and
scrubbing brush and let her dry out thor-
oughly before launching.
Is there a better polish than liquid wax for
a rublxT-tiled floor?- —7818.
The makers of rubber flooring say there
is nothing more suitable than a simple mix-
ture of beeswax dissolved in turpentine, but
such floors are not intended to be polished.
They only need washing occasionally with
soap and warm water.
It has been stated that when a shark or
some wild beast has eaten human flesh, there
will, for the rest of its life, be signs of the
deed on it* skin. Is this correct? —7750.
No scintilla of evidence in support of the
theory has ever been brought forward.
Are there any means whereby a Master of
Arts of an Australian uni. may, without
leaving Australia, obtain the degree of Doctor
of Philosophy in some university of good
standing, British or foreign?— 7777.
Can’t speak for all universities, but most
of them, British and foreign, require a candi-
date for the degree to attend for at least
two years. In Scotland candidates for the
degree are required to prosecute a line of
special study and research for at least three
years. In the London School of Economics
candidates must pursue a course of study as
internal students for not less than two years.
I wish to make a 40 ft. launch. (1) Cost
of suitable Q’land timber? (2) Class of
timber suitable? (3) At what speed would
a Ford motor-truck engine drive a 40ft.
launch? (4) Would a Ford-truck engine
develop more power than a IQ-h.p. marine
engine ? —7671.
(1) and (2) For planking, hoop pine. A-
class rough-sawn planks ex yard. Brisbane,
cost 50s. to 60s. per 100 super, feet accord-
ing to widths desired. For framing, white
ash, 705., and for keel, spotted irongum, 355.
per 100 super feet. Timber obtainable from
Forestry Department, Brisbane. (3) and
(4) The Ford engine would develop consider-
ably less power than the 16-h.p. marine
engine and would give only about 6 knots
p.h., unless the Ford was specially geared to
allow the engine to do more revolutions than
the propeller.
(1) Was Alfred Lear, the man who wrote
“The Book of Nonsense ,” the same as the
painter of the same name? (2) What did
he paint? (3) What arc the words of Lear’s
Thermopylae, limerick? (4) Are any of
Lear's paintings exhibited in English gal-
leries ?- —7835.
(1) Yes. (2) He worked in landscape
and did remarkably fine drawing in ink and
color, and at one time lie gave lessons in
drawing to Queen Victoria. (3)
There was an old man of Thermopylae
Who never did anything properly;
They said: “If you choose
To boil eggs in your shoes,
You cannot remain in Thermopylae!”
(4) Six water-colors and 16 monochrome
drawings, British Museum; 12 water-colors
and drawings at the Victoria and Albert
Museum, and 25 works at the Tate Gallery.
(1) Is it permissible for a poll-clerk to
ask questions of a candidate at a public
meeting? (2) What is the best and quickest
method of counting votes? (31 Why is the
cost of living assessed as being cheaper in
the country than in the city? —7629.
(1) Poll-clerks are debarred from taking
any action of a partisan nature in connec-
tion with the election for which they are
appointed. The questioning of candidates
would almost necessarily be regarded as a
partisan act. (2) The method is set out in
Part XIV of the Commonwealth Electoral
Act. (3) Mainly because house rents are
lower.
Recipe for home-made shaving soap? —
7725.
Take 5 parts white Castile soap, 15 parts
rectified spirits of wine and 15 parts rose
water. Shave up the soap finely, mix in the
rose water, and melt together over a gentle
flame; then stir in the spirits and pour into
jars to cool.
My retriever dog, four months old, is
bathed almost daily with special dog soap,
but the odor peculiar to dogs is still very
pronounced soon after bathing. llow can
I rid the dog of this 0d0r? —7877.
Probably the dog is being bathed too fre-
quently, and as a consequence the glands
of the skin are functioning in an excessive
manner. Bathe him once a week and rub
him over daily with a flesh glove. As the
flog perspires mainly through the pads of
the feet in very hot weather, swab the pads
occasionally with a little methylated spirit.
(1) What is the best method to save
dahlia seed? (2) Is it true that plants
raised from seed can be named as one cares?
—7862.
(1) Let the seed pods ripen on the plant,
then remove the seed, spread it out. to dry
and store in a dry tin —preferably a tobacco-
tin, owing to its disinfecting qualities. The
best flower-heads should be selected. (2)
Yes; but the flower must be distinct in
color and formation from any other flower
of the species before it deserves a name.
Brief Answers.
H.L.D.: Scratch up the nests of the small
black ants and pour in boiling water through the
rose of a watering-can. Kerosene will also destroy
them M. 1.8.: It would be illegal for you to
make the gadgets unless under license from the
inventor, J. V. Shannon, Rodney Downs, Ilfracombe
(Q.). Communicate with him. . . .W.T.L.8.: Can
find no reference which would confirm such a story.
... .H.M.: Can’t recommend it. Get in touch with
Alexander Moir and Co., 99 Clarence-street, or
Cowan and Sons, 37 York-street, Sydney W.L.:
Italy mobilised 5,600,000 men during the Great War.
Her peace establishment is 251,000 conscripts, who
serve 18 months. There is also a volunteer militia
with a strength of 369,000. The air force, which is
separate, in 1930 had 2100 ’planes (to be raised
in the near future to 4500) and 22,980 officers
and men: .. . L.J.C.: Try A. D. Cooper, .sec., Real
Estate Agents’ Assoc., 74 Collins-street, Hobart....
A. : Manufacturing temperature is the controlling
factor in the butter-milk content of butter. Write
Agriculture llept., Brisbane, for leaflet. Rennet
is obtained from the inner membrane of the fourth
stomach of the calf. . . .F.R.: Port Jackson and Manly
Ferry Co.’s fleet consists of the Deewhy, Curl-Curl,
Baragoola, Barrenjoey, Balgowlah, Bellubcra apd
Burra-Bra. One steamer is out of commission....
E. 0.8.: The man who jumped from Anthony Hor-
derns’ premises in Sydney at the time of that film's
fire on July 10, 1901, was Harry Clegg, an uphob
stcrer, aged 22. He was buried at Waverley Ceme-
tery... .W.J.: Submit a sample to the Agriculture
Dept., Brisbane. ... .J.P.S.: Cairns time is 18 hours
ahead of San Francisco time. When it is 6 a.m.
at San Francisco it is midnight (same day) at
Cairns. .. .E. 8.: Angus and Robertson, 89 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, and Robertson and Mullens,
107 Elizabcth-strcet, Melbourne. ... K.G.: Smith,
Mackenzie and Co., Mombassa; Gailey and Roberts,
G. North and Son, Tyson Bros., and J. 11. S. Todd
and Co. —all Nairobi, Kenya C010ny.... J.B. : (1) A
stock mortgage is covered by the moratorium. (2)
As you agreed to maintain their “number and
quality” you must provide sustenance for the sheep.
.. . .L.M.C. and E. 8.: (1) Ascertain the rent paid
on June 30, 1930. If any deduction has been made
between that date and the date the Act came into
operation (October 9, 1931), the landlord is entitled
to take such deduction into account when making
the statutory cut of 224 per cent. (2) The Act
does not apply to rent payable to the Crown. Private
banks are not immune. .. .J.P.S.: It doesn’t affect a
lease of any agricultural land to which the provisions
of the Agricultural Lessees Relief Act 1931, applies.
Under the latter Act any lessee may apply to the
land board; the lessor is not required to reduce
the rent unless called upon by the board to do so.
MacD.: The Q’land Dividing Fences Act makes
you liable with your neighbor “in equal propor-
tions” for the actual cost of erection, including
material. Your neighbor is not required to wait
for his money until you have sold the land....
J.C.: (1) No. (2) If you register your name with
the District Naval Officer, Naval Staff Office, Beach-
road, Edgecliff, Sydney. (3) No premium required.
....Pig-raiser: Pigs are better kept out in the open
paddocks, but When sows are due to farrow it is
preferable to have them in separate yards or sties
until the suckers are about two or three weeks
old. . . .H.Y.0.: The usual course is to employ a
solicitor and make the change by deed poll. The
cost is a few guineas,.. .F.E.8,: (1) The presi-
dent is not under compulsion to retire. (2) He has
a casting vote in cases of equal voting. (3) The
proper course is to read the minutes of the previous
meeting and have them confirmed before proceeding
to discuss matters in the agenda paper... .W. 8.:
Using a mixture of 1-2-4. Cement, 6 cub. ft.;
sand, 12 cub. ft. ; gravel, 23 cub. ft. Leaflet has
been posted W.H.H.: Your father appears to be
tntitled to the benefit of the Act. It is open to the
mortgagee to apply to the Court if he considers he
has a claim for exclusion of the moratprium. .. .
H. : A right-of-way may arise out of a claim of
immemorial usage or by an uninterrupted enjoy-
ment for 20 years, under claim of right. The owner’s
title to the land remains, but is subject to the
acquired right of others to a way, or path, over it.
.. . .H.H.: A letter by an all-rail route may go from
New York to San Francisco in 83 hours (34 days).
It can go by air route in half the time....
G.R.: “Training for Athletes,” by 11. M. Abrahams
(Bs. 6d.), and “Athletes in Action,” by B'. F. A. M.
Webster (10s.), Angus and Robertson... .C.M.S. : (1)
Probably only the author knows. (2) Said to be
based on Paul Gauguin (1841-1903), French post-
impressionist painter, who went native in the Pacific
Islands. .. .B.B.: Only one we know of is the play-
writing competition being run by the Community
Playhouse, Sydney, particulars of which were pub-
lished here on Jan. 6 Z.S.: (1) The blank page is
suitable for the purpose. (2) Always send the
original... .A. C.P.: Otago Rowing Club, Kitchener-
street, Dunedin (M.L.)... . J.H.: (1) People who have
been bitten by snakes say that it is just a sharp
sting. (2) There is seldom loss of consciousness if
treatment is prompt. (3) There is no specific effect
on the nerves beyond shock. .. .11.F.C.: Lemons
won’t harm you. Arthritis is a disease in which
treatment must be adjusted to the patient. ..,
B. : Consult a nerve specialist. Some elocution-
ists advertise that they cure speech impediments....
8.4 V.: Never give the names of specialists. Much can
be done for backward children by specially qualified
doctors and teachers.... A. W.T.: Can’t say without
examination. Consult a surgeon... .E.N.: Cyril
Maude played Mr. White in the first production of
“The Monkey’s Paw” at London Haymarket, October
6, 1903. Louis N. Parker dramatised W. W. Jacob’s
story E.B. : S. Aus. had 52,329 acres of vineyards
in 1929-30 and produced 12,406,017 gallons of wine.
. ...P.T.: Chief explorations of Westralia in 1832
were made by Alexander Collie in the districts be-
tween Albany and French River and near King
George’s Sound. R.K.: Noxious animals imported
to Australia are rabbits, dingoes and dingo-dog
crosses, hares, foxes and cats gone wild... .R.H.P.:
Write to the Commissioner of Police, Huriter and
Phillip streets, Sydney... .A.H.: “Manual of Cyani-
dation” by E. M. Hamilton, and “The Cyanide
Process,” by James Park. .. .O.B.: Almonds are the
only dessert nuts itemised in trade returns. Imports
of almonds in the shell for 1928-29 were £5449;
in 1929-30, £398; in 1930-31, £207. Imports of
other edible nuts were: 1928-29, £41,649; 1929-30,
£42,011; 1930-31, £18,715... .J.J.S.: Chances
practically hopeless. Get in touch with island
traders A.D.L.: (1) In Java. (2) The Javanese
employ them for wearing apparel and to decorate
their idols. In Europe and America they are mostly
used for wall-hangings. (3) Any woven materials.
The Javanese use cotton goods almost entirely,
English and Dutch artists use silk as a rule. Crepe
de Chine is particularly suitable.... C.M.K.: Seurat
was a student of the Beaux Arts associated with
Paul Signac in the school of neo-impressionism
known as the Pointillists. He died very young, but
left three or four canvases of great brilliance....
L.R.: Cherra Poonjee, in Assam, where the fall for
the year has exceeded 5514 inches.. . .E.M.C.: Three;
“The Horses of the Hills” (1911), “Bairnsdale”
(1922). and “The Poems of Marie E. J. Pitt (1925).
....(Many others mailed.)


Blue North
By
Mrs. Drecke- Brockman.
Synopsis : Whilst driving to Fre-
mantle from Perth in 1876 “Hand-
some Jack ” Fordyce, a Westralian
squatter , tells John Collins, an attrac-
tive acquaintance, of the extravagance
of his discontented wife, Euphemia,
Advised by Collins to leave her, For-
dyce sells his place, settles an allow-
ance on her and buys the schooner Fca
Sprite, planning to sail to the blue
'North in search of pearls and freedom,
Collins engineers the escape of six
Irish political convicts. Excited Fre-
mantle, suspecting the American
whaler Catalpa is standing by to pick
the Fenians up, sends fiery Major
Finnerty after her. He returns; the
Yankee mate refused to let him board.
CHAPTER II ( Continued ).
THE crowd on the jetty parted to make
way for his Excellency the Governor
and the Colonial Secretary, who had
driven down from Perth to confer with
Major Finnerty and Mr. Stone, Superinten-
dent of the Water Police. His Excellency
espied Mr. Fordyce and sent an aide-de-
camp to command his presence. John found
his acquaintance with Collins was bringing
him notoriety; but he used his new-found
importance to some purpose —he wangled
permission to join the contingent on the
Georgette.
Dusk fell. In the light of flares and oil-
lamps a fatigue party of enrolled pensioners
coaled the steamer, their unaccustomed
clumsiness calling forth many a gibe from
surrounding crowds. Provisions for a week
were carried aboard, and amid loud cheers
an old howitzer gun was mounted in the
bows.
“That’s the stuff, lads!” cried the fiery
Irish major. “The dirty rebels!”
The return of the police-boat all but
created a riot in the mad scramble to see
and hear. Fresh fuel for an already blaz-
ing fire. The police had hovered about off
the Murray River all night, and had at last
been rewarded by sight of a boat creeping
from the coast. They gave chase, but,
like a giant gull swooping for its prey, the
Catalpa had sized up the situation; she
bore down carrying every stitch of canvas
she possessed. In she sailed between the
two boats, picked up her own men and
stood away. And the impudent mate con-
tinued to swear he knew nothing about
convicts, although any fool could distinctly
see broad arrows walking about on the
deck! Finally the police had been told to
clear out if they valued their skins, and,
realising the futility of their tiny craft,
had come to bid the Georgette hasten.
As, towards midnight, the steamer cleared
the jetty, John Fordyce leant over the side.
He had achieved his desire. There must
have been two thousand people clustered
on the seafront—the entire population. Men
and girls, old women and babies. Amid
cheers and shouts the Georgette bore away,
till night swallowed lights and voices, leav-
ing the ship’s company like a little bright
spark of feverish energy upon the dark sea.
John Fordyce scarcely slept. He was
up at dawn and found a point of vantage
on the rails. With the wind ruffling his
hair he watched the morning sun strike
on the sails of the whaler as they slowly
overhauled her. All was subdued excite-
ment. Major Finnerty’s pensioners were
posted round the deck and near the gun.
A detachment of police stood to attention.
With flurry of flags the Georgette bade the
Catalpa heave to; without comment the
barque continued on her way.
“The confounded impudence of her!”
snorted Major Finnerty. “Have I your
permission to fire, Superintendent Stone?”
The next moment a shot ripped the water
in the wake of the absconding vessel. She
continued to take no heed.
“Damn her! Right across the bows this
time,” cried the Major, red in the face
with rage. A murmur broke the tension as
the Catalpa replied to the second shot
by running up a bundle of bunting. John’s
intent eyes beheld the Stars and Stripes
flutter from her peak.
By this time the two ships were within
hail, and soon John was listening with all
his ears. His heart pounded. It seemed
Collins must be taken—he would not gain
freedom, after all!
“Captain Anthony ahoy!” shouted Super-
intendent Stone from the bridge.
A figure on the other vessel jumped into
the quarter-boat.
“Ahoy! ”
But the American skipper answered all
Mr. Stone’s allegations with strenuous
denial; to all commands he replied that
the men to be seen on deck were his own
seamen. Gasps of astonishment greeted
such outrageous effrontery. Every man on
the Georgette told his neighbor just how
plainly he could see broad arrows on the
deck of the whaler. Imagine not even
taking the trouble to hide such disgraceful
garb! Showed how brazen the lags were!
John wondered what Stone’s instructions
might be—he had remained closeted with
the Governor for some time. Would there
be a fight? Superintendent Stone shrugged
his shoulders. A puff of breeze carried the
sailing-ship away from the little steamer.
“I’ll give you fifteen minutes to recon-
sider my request, Captain Anthony,” he
called across the widening space.
“And I’ll blow ’em to kingdom come,”
roared the Major, “if they give you any
more of their confounded lies!”
John strained to hear, yet failed to catch
Mr. Stone’s reply.
Again the Georgette overhauled the
whaler; again Captain Anthony asserted
that he had no prisoners aboard. Stone
pointed to the man at the gun, who bran-
dished a lighted match.
“If you won’t give them up, I’ll fire into
you and sink you!” he yelled.
“I don’t care what you do! I’m on the
high seas!” Anthony’s outstretched hand
pointed to the American flag. “That pro-
tects me.”
“You have escaped convicts on your ship,
a misdemeanor against the laws of this
colony—your Flag doesn’t protect you in
that.”
“Oh, doesn’t it just! Outside the three-
mile limit I guess it will, or in a case of
felony either!”
John saw Mr. Stone look dismally at the
Major and shake his head. “Very well,”
he shouted, “let me board your boat and
judge for myself if you are speaking the
truth about having no prisoners.”
“No,” bellowed Captain Anthony. “That
you sha’n’t!”
“Let me fire, Stone,” implored the almost
apoplectic Major. “Blast their impudence!
Don’t argue with that sort—act! Inter-
national laws be damned!” 1
Stone made a wry face. He leant on the
rail and roared a final threat. “Captain
Anthony,” he called, “you may rest assured
your Government will hear of this flagrant
offence and you will be called upon to face
the consequences.”
“That pleasure will be mine!” Anthony’s
reply was just audible across the ever-
growing space between. Those on the
Georgette imagined they heard a ripple of
laughter from the crew of the whaler.
John Fordyce, irritated as he felt by the
impudent Yankee, gave a sigh of relief.
Collins would not be captured, after all.
At that moment a man ran aft on the
Catalpa. John recognised immediately the
fair head and elegantly tall figure of Mr.
John Collins. Evidently that gentleman had
espied his friend Mr. Fordyce on the pur-
suing boat. He waved. His voice came
to John in a faint triumphant echo.
“Free—at last, Mr. Fordyce!”
John smiled. He would dearly have liked
to show he remembered by replying: “Free
—I hope, Mr. Collins.” But such an ex-
pression would scarcely have been con-
sidered decent by anybody on the Georg-
ette. He could hear the Major ramping
on the bridge. He caught snatches of talk.
“.... I would have!.... absolute fiasco.”
Then Mr. Stone’s quiet voice. “Indeed
unfortunate. Regrettable incident
Impossible instructions far too definite.
....Alabama, you know”....
For a moment John Fordyce stared across
the sunlit blue waters of the Indian Ocean
to the departing Catalpa, already far to the
south, rising and falling in the trough of
the sea. For Fenians he cared not a rap,
but he was glad Mr. Collins was free. His
eyes left the ballooning sails of the whaler
and sought the north.
His thoughts were interrupted by a hand
on his shoulder.
“I think, my dear Johnnie,” said the
Major in his ear, “we are entitled at least
to drink the Fenians to Hell! Will you
join us?”
“Where are they?” vociferated the crowd
on the jetty when the Georgette returned
to Fremantle. They fully expected to see
the runaways in irons on deck, and felt de-
frauded of a spectacle they considered their
due after such a long and tedious wait.
One of the pensioners, a bit of a wag, re-
torted they were down below, under heavy
guard. An incipient cheer greeted his
avowal. But truth of the fatuous chase
could not long be withheld; in a trice
cheers changed to hoots and jeers.
“I’ll wager they was all too sea-sick to
catch ’em!” yelled one hooligan, and his
words were passed from mouth to mouth,
rebounded from the walls of the Round
House and the hills: “Sea-sick! Sea-sick!”
If Mr. Collins’s words had precipitated
John’s actions, his somewhat melodramatic
departure now delayed the fitting-up of the
Sea Sprite.
Convicts were kept confined within the
Establishment, and the normal life of the
Port dislocated for some days. Men were
more eager to discuss the rights and wrongs
of the affair, which, if truth be told, had
more pleasantly than otherwise disturbed
the monotony of the little community,
than to get on with their business. After
all, to-morrow would do as well as to-day!
Crew and store and spare tackle at last
complete, the schooner lay ready for her
voyage. John, like many another man in
those adventurous days, could handle a
ship as readily as gallop after cattle. He
had crammed more things into his thirty-
one years than seemed possible, considering
the temper of the age in which he lived.
But the prospect of this sally into all but
unknown waters lent a spring to his step
and a glint to his eye which made his Fre-
mantle cronies rally him, hinting he must
certainly have fallen in love again. Or
else why was he running away?
He laughed at their quips, secure in his
freedom, his heart light as a boy’s. But
he frowned when Moloney, on the very eve
of his departure, handed him a letter from
his wife:—
Perth, Western Australia.
April 20, 1876.
Sir, —I am torn betwixt a desire to bear
your insulting behavior in all the silence of
a deeply injured yet sorrowful wife, and an
inclination to display to you your action
in its true and hideous light. Is it possible
that the husband I have respected and
obeyed for the last five years as a model
of gentlemanly deportment should thus
cruelly display a cloven hoof? Have I not
endured with you the privations and un-
utterable vulgarities of this colonial life,
living for at least half the year in the shack
you so grandiloquently call “your Place”?
Have I not foregone the elegancies right-
fully belonging to a lady of position, and
the amenities of life so necessary to a
woman with my delicate constitution?
Yet you have basely deserted me with no
more than a casual good-by#—saying you
feel I shall be happier relieved of your in-
considerate society, and G — knew you
could stand no more! Oh, yes, sir, I heard
your blasphemous words, in the midst of
my swoon at your harshness. All that per-
chance, and the visit from your lawyer, I
could have borne in dignified silence, but
the unspeakable notice in the “Inquirer”
so shocked and hurt me that I was scarcely
fit to go to the regatta! But I am not
without pride, nor will I allow Society to
think that John Fordyce has wounded me!
For the last time will I sign myself,
Your mortified wife,
Eupliemia Fordyce.
' P.S.—Not the least trying side of your
abominable conduct is the ambiguity of
my position. Were I a widow I should
know what to wear. As it is I scarcely think
my new sprigged muslin with the pink sars-
net ribbons a suitable garment for a lady
whose ungracious husband is going to a
land where no doubt he will consort with
the degraded black women whom I am told
are engaged in the pearling industry. And
so I was obliged to order a gown of mauve
watered silk. You see, I have been informed
of your projects, and perhaps you vrill be
interested to hear that Captain Marsh,
who told me, cdso said a certain lady looked
“quite too provoking in mauve”! — E.F.
Moloney, watching John with curiosity,
saw the scowl vanish and his lips curl in a
characteristically cheerful grin. How like
Euphemia! That postscript killed the last
sneaking sense of shabbiness which had lain
hidden in her husband’s mind. She really
did not care whether he went “consorting
with degraded black women” or not! Her
immense wardrobe had long ago smothered
any soul she ever possessed.
John Fordyce received his clearance
papers at the stone Customs House next
afternoon and was pulled off to the Sea
Sprite. It was a grey day, with a drizzle
of rain and a light breeze from the sou’-
west. His first orders were to hoist a flag
for the water police, who, coming off in
their boat, called the roll of the crew and
inspected the vessel.
“No John Collinses on us, Inspector,” said
the mate jocularly, as he bade the police
adieu.
“We’ll be a long time hearing the end
of that,” replied one of the police: “Listen
to the lags singing now!”
The convicts were once more at work on
the sea-wall, cutting and lumping huge
blocks, of. stone. And as'they worked they
sang. Their voices floated to the group on
the deck of the Sprite.
“A noble fine ship and commander,
Called the Cataipa, they say,
Came over to Western Australia,
And took six poor Fenians away.
And now they are gone to America
They will be able to cry,
‘We’ll hoist the green flag with the sham-
rock,
Hurrah! For old Ireland we’ll die.’
Hurrah!”
“It’s an endless song, in more ways than
one,” commented the Inspector wryly as
ho shook hands with John.
CHAPTER 111.
Introducing the Sea Spnte; also a
cat which fell into the sea; and Babbet.
John Fordyce knew his good judgment
vindicated at feel of the live craft beneath
his feet. The Sea Sprite danced as became
her name. Hour after hour the wind
freshened, veering to the south till it blew
right on the quarter and the helmsman
blessed his luck. So propitious were the
elements that by midnight the loom of the
Geraldton light showed low down on the
horizon, and long before breakfast-time the
schooner lay moored at the jetty.
John was no fool over business. Ships
to the north sailed with the greatest irregu-
larity ; he found it well worth while to
advertise for cargo, and before she sailed
the Sprite received also a quota of mail.
But her master was eager to cut adrift
from civilisation. With the help of a few
bottles of beer and a little extra pay he
hurried on discharge of Geraldton freight
and the loading of goods for the North. A
cousin of his had left earlier in the year
to take up a pastoral lease on the Gascoyne
River. On him John was relying for a team
of native divers, so he felt well pleased
to find himself shipping stores which Edgar
Fordyce had ordered in Geraldton. Wool-
drays and frame houses, tinned foods and
flour, timber and ammunition and boots
the Sprite took. Yet for all his money-
sense, John Fordyce was impatient. He
heaved a sigh of relief when the mate
reported everything shipshape and ready
for clearance.
As the queer flat-topped ranges behind
Champion Bay faded in the dusk, he stood
beside the helm of his ship; a sense of
exultation welled up within him. Ahead
stretched unknown seas fraught with he
knew not what of peril and adventure.
Below lay the best charts to be had—yet
many of them had been compiled more
than a hundred years earlier; indeed, some
were. the work of old Dutch a.nd French
navigators, so little had the coast been
explored. He knew that as often as not
he would have to exercise a nice judgment
for himself.
“I’m turning in for a spell, Mr. Wilson,”
he told the mate, and went below.
For some inexplicable reason he dreamed
of Euphemia. He had not thought of her
since the Sprite left Fremantle; but now,
so it seemed to him, she insisted upon
arguing with him over the most suitable
color in which to be drowned. “White, I
tell you,” he kept on sa.ying. “Haven’t I
told you a thousand times that white is
the only color women should wear?” “But
it is so trying,” wailed the phantom Euphe-
mia. “Pink lends such an air of elegance.
That latest shade called cerise”
He was awakened suddenly by sound of
a terrific sea hitting the side, rushing over
the decks. A voice screamed “Come up!
Come up! She’s foundering.”
He leapt out on deck, but not before he
thought, “That noise explains my dream.”
He found himself up to the knees in water.
The ship was running rails under; every
lurch she gave:seemed bound to be her last.
John glanced aloft and beheld the sails
set as when he retired. But it was blowing
hard now and pressure of canvas forced
an unwilling Sprite into the greedy waves.
“All hands on deck!” yelled John as he
ran forward. Confusion reigned for some
moments, but order was soon restored and
safety won. The Sprite ran before the
hurricane with reefed sails. Fordyce rated
the Malay seaman at the helm for not
rousing him as soon as the wind freshened.
He only wished he had been able to heave
to and ride out the storm. He seized the
wheel himself now, as like a hunted wraith
the schooner sped through the night, the
ever-following seas breaking across her
stern. Soon it was blowing a living gale.
John’s hands grasped the spokes firmly, his
face lifted to the stinging kiss of the spray.
He wondered if his taste of freedom was
foredoomed to a swift end, if here and
now the spark of conscious thought he knew
as John Fordyce would be extinguished in
a ravenous sea. He laughed aloud. It
would still have been worth while —even
so short a period of life regained! Better
to die with the blood pounding in his veins,
out in the open, lashed by fury of wind
and rain, than to die asleep in Euphemia’s
stifling bedroom.
Morning broke dark and gloomy, reveal-
ing nothing but one vast heaving mass of
waters. The great *aves closed round the
tiny Sprite like a circle of mountains, or
fell in deep engulfing valleys.
At last the wind dropped. The storm
had passed; only a heavy swell rolled in to
the coast, like the convulsive shudders of
some exhausted primeval monster.
They had been driven out of their course
and had to return on their tracks; but not
long after noon Wilson called that he could
distinctly see a cairn of stones on high land
looming now ahead.


With everu kind of frock
-for every type of fiqure
d Btk Lf I benedth
to qive line
CO
4( '
\V K l
&
r
N<S
I \ A
/ym
\i 7 \ !
m
X'-y.
A
6503
v
Will you spend a happy summer?
Doesn't feminine happiness de-
pend tremendously upon person-
al chic? Every woman knows this
to be true 1
'OUR little
jacket-suits, your
day and dance frocks,
will most emphatically call
for no less than perfect
figure-moulding.
Choose and fit and wear a true-
to-type Bcrlei foundation and
achieve the smoothly contoured
bustline, the trim, round waist, the
slinky hips necessary to assure
successful frocking.
A Berlei foundation gives line be-
cause it is true to type —figure
type. Check your measurements,
ascertain your type, today by the
Berlei Type Indicator at any reli-
able store. Every Berlei Founda-
tion is positively guaranteed.
BIG ABDOMEN TYPE.
In Controlette 6503 a
busked inner belt modi-
fies the contour of the
abdomen. Art silk
broche reinforced and
boned. Busts : 38-46.
MEDIUM
AVERAGE
TYPE. Control-
ette 6173 has
boned inner belt of
coutil and elastic.
Reinforced over
diaphram. Pink/
white broche;
fancy elas-
tic. Busts :
34-42.
LONG SWAY BACK
TYPE. Corselette 6177
moulds the curved
waist perfectly. Light
boning over abdomen.
Knitted art silk uplift
bust section. Busts :
28-36.
FREE, AND POST FREE!
Write to-day for “Her Grace.”
the nczu, beautiful, illustrated
catalogue published by Berlei
Ltd., 39-47 Regent St., Sydney.
Dept.'Ul. |
m
(m
/■
■Si
86:36:3!
The cook came out of the galley to look.
He and the Malay were the only members
of the crew who had sailed north of Gerald-
ton. A rotund person, the cook, with a red
face and drooping grey moustaches. He
rejoiced in the name of Babbet and a
fatherly manner. He also dearly loved to
pose as an experienced navigator, but what-
ever he may have lacked in that direction
he amply made up for by his qualifications
in the galley.
“That’ll ’ave bin put there to mark the
furthest west point of Australee,” he an-
nounced now. “All them old sea-dawgs
sailed round these parts, as belike you
know, sir, and I reckon they must ’ave
thought they was in a river come the
entrance to the bay. Bay of Dawgs the
Frenchies called it. Beats me wot for.
That fellow name o’ Damper had a sight
more sense to call it after the sharks—
no one’ll ever dispute the sense o’ that!”
Clouds broke asunder and rolled away.
Through blue waters, winding like a wide
river between mainland and cliffs of Dirk
Hartog Island, the Sprite sailed into smooth
and guarded seas. The very air felt differ-
ent. The past night of storm and darkness
might well have been a dream!
John Fordyce stood on the deck of his
schooner and watched huge white clouds
chasing across the sky. They made him
think of ships. Magnificent galleons, or
whatever the things had been called. The
Armada. Could anything in the world
equal the feel of a good ship underfoot and
uncharted seas ahead? No wonder those
old johnnies went roving! It must be close
on three centuries now since Dirk Hartog
discovered the west coast and stuck up his
plate at the other end of the island. Yet
how little was altered! The few who had
dared the North fought a gallant battle—
and the new grazing lands were proving
sound and the pearlers made money. What
sort of luck would he have with the big
white pearl-shells of the Far North? Look-
ing out over iridescent sea and grey-blue
island hills dappled by the flying shadow's
of the clouds, John felt he must surely be
sailing into a world which would deny him
nothing.
Wearied by his watch of the previous
night, the master of the Sprite slept the
sleep of the care-free, nor did any shade of
his wife come to aggravate his rest. He
was awakened by the watch shouting:
“Twelve o’clock, sir, and a dead calm!”
What variable seas, he thought sleepily—
even worse than Euphemia! The mono-
tonous flap-flap of empty sails came to his
ears.
He sent all hands below to sleep and
remained on deck alone. They could easily
be called if a breeze sprang up. Heaven
send it would! The stillness of night, the
roll of the ship, that monotonous flap-flap
of the sails filled him with dismay. Were
they in for one of those long dead calms
of which old northern sailors hanging round
the Fremantle pubs had told him? Days
together without a breath of wind! Better
a gale like that of the previous night than
this lolling about, first this way, then that,
at sweet will of the current in water too
deep to drop anchor. Impatiently he paced
the deck for an hour, feeling he could
scarcely endure this enforced delay which
kept him from the enchanted waters of his
quest. In disgust he lashed the helm and
went below. His charts showed miles of
open sea. There was certainly not the
slightest danger of being run down upon
that shipless coast.
At daylight he resumed his pacing. The
Sea Sprite still lolled about with a flapping
of sails, a creaking and groaning of gear.
The ship’s cat sat complacently on one of
the lockers, performing her toilet with
meticulous care. Her complete indifference
to time and its chains added to John’s
irritation. She stopped suddenly after the
manner of cats, one paw in mid air, and
stared at the man so impatiently marching
about. So derisive she looked that he
laughed at his own impatience. As if
fussing would create a wind!
Meals alone served to break the march
of a.n endless day. Some of the men put
out fishing lines; not even a bite broke the
monotony. John sat in the cabin, poring
over charts, discussing with the mate prob-
able virtues of different pearling banks,
when a shout and scuffle took him swiftly
on deck. He beheld two men running to
a boat in the davits, another slicing at a
lifebelt hanging astern.
“What is it?” he yelled. “Man over?”
“Worse!” called the man with the knife,
who, turning, displayed the cook’s anxious
red face. “The cat, sir!”
John, too well aware of sailors’ super-
stitions to laugh, stifled his amusement.
He went to the rail. Puss was swimming
desperately towards the vessel, and with
the greatest promptitude made for the life-
belt as it landed in the water close behind
her. She was hauled to safety and borne
away by the rejoicing men to a rub down
and a saucer of warm milk.
“Runnin’ round on the taffrail she was.
the little minx, w’en she turned turtle. A
good job we got ’er,” said Babbet to John.
“All the same, I reckon it’s a bad omen,
sir; I don’t like it none. Who ever ’eard
of a cat losin’ ’er feet and failin’ over-
board? I reckon she must ’ave seen some-
ut as skeered ’er.”
"A dugong perhaps?” suggested John.
“No, sir, I don’t mean any natural thing
even as onnatural as one of them beasts.”
He went forward shaking his head.
As the sun sank into a.n oily sea, a breeze
ruffled across the water. The Sea Sprite
awoke at the kiss of the wind. The men
sang as they sprang to the rigging.
Before noon on the following day the
anchor ran out into sickly green water
at the mouth of the Gascoyne River. A
mile away the low coast, reddish tinged,
stretched flat to the horizon, losing itself
in a dancing shimmer of heat. John went
ashore in one of the dinghies. A mile or
more up the river they pulled, and, landing
to prospect, he felt considerably relieved to
trace waggon-tracks leading away from the
red muddy banks. He had feared the men
he hoped to find might still have been on
the track, miles inland from their destina-
tion. This gave proof of safe arrival; many
wheel-marks promised several months’
occupation, as John knew that at most
they would have only a couple of drays.
liis luck was in; surely Edgar, who always
had a way with natives in the South, would
already be on sufficiently friendly terms
with the surrounding blacks to get some
divers for him. Lightheartedly he ordered
the dinghy to return, bidding Wilson ferry
the stores to the beach and stack them care-
fully.
He stepped out along the rough track
: alone—the crew had their hands' full—a
revolver snug in his belt. Even supposing
the prospecting squatters had not yet made
friends with the natives or had moved away
from the coast, he knew blacks rarely
asttacked even a solitary wayfarer in the
daylight. On every side he beheld evidence
of a good season. Like a huge park the
land spread out under a soaking sun.
Hibiscus flowers still flaunted yellow bells,
thousands of tiny birds twittered from bush
to bush. In a very short time John had
reason to be, thankful he wore no more
than shirt and trousers.
Dinner was in progress as he arrived,
Three or four men in singlets sat round a
rough table, eating stew and damper. They
leapt to their feet as the dogs gave
tongue and John’s form appeared in the
doorway of their shack.
“Handsome Jack Fordyce, by all that’s
holy!” shouted one of them. “Come in, old
chap! Come in! What’s brought you up
into the wilds? What’s doing in the South?
How’s civilisation? Why are you walking?”
Edgar Fordyce strode to meet his cousin
with outstretched hand.
“John! Well, I’ll be damned! Have you
taken up a tract of this country, too?
The whole family will be here before long!
Wish to God I’d known you intended to
come. We’ve hardly a bite to offer you—
flour full of worms, and sheep too precious
to kill for meat! But come in.”
“One at a time,” laughed John as they
crowded round wringing his hand and delug-
ing him with questions.
“I’ll wager Mr. Fordyce is thirsty for
something more liquid than news, you
fellows!”
“At any rate I have brought your stores,
Edgar. I found them on order in Gerald-
ton and shipped them in my schooner,
together with your mail and all the rest
of it.”
“Your schooner, eh? What are you up
to? But it sounds handy for us!”
Sitting on a rough chair of saplings which
failed to support itself unless aided by the
human legs of its occupant, John did his
best to feed their insatiable appetite for
news.
{To be continued next iceelc. )


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Greenline, who lias been transferred to
the care of James Scobie for autumn engage-
ments in Melbourne, suffered defeat in tlie
William Reid Stakes at Moonee Valley for
the third successive year. However, Leslie
Barnett’s wonderful sprinter and weight-
carrier was by no means disgraced. He
started from No. 1 berth and began slowly;
several times during the afternoon the bar-
rier at the six-furlong post seemed to hang
tire on the inside. Merab, on the extreme
outer, scooted off like a scalded cat, and,
ridden by a steeplechase jockey from Adel-
aide, opened up a gap of five lengths. There
were then only two rivals behind Greenline
—Rondalina and Emblematic. The latter
had been hopelessly left. He was along-
side Greenline at the post, and this adds
color to the theory that something was amiss
with the mechanical starting apparatus.
Spectators were thrilled when Greenline,
at the half-way stage, commenced to overhaul
horse after horse. At the turn it looked as
if he would triumph over difficulties; but
Middle Watch, who had been the first to
cut down Merab, refused to surrender con-
trol. The little black colt scored by half
a neck, and made his owner, J. S. Feelian,
of the V.R.C. committee, beam with satisfac-
tion. Ted Fisher, the Flemington trainer,
gave 450gns. for Black Watch as a yearling
on behalf of Feelian. Having finished second
to Ammon Ra in the Caulfield Guineas and
been runner-up to Second Wind in the Wil-
liamstown Cup, the son of The Night Patrol
ought to have been at a shorter price than
14 to 1 on Saturday. He is of undeniably
good class, notwithstanding the pull of
nearly 2st. in weight as compared with
Greenline.
No horse that competed at Moonee Valley
is likely to trouble Greenline in the New-
market, unless it be the Rossendale mare
Rosetta, who landed the second division of
the Warrook Highweight Handicap. She
has exceptional speed, but is temperamental.
Heavily backed at Caulfield a -week before,
Gert: *My stick , please",
Bert: one ?"
Qert’. The one l qenerallv
of course r
Bert * up-stick **
Rosetta, drawn pn the rails, got boxed up
in the field, and never emerged from the
ruck. On Saturday she was well out from
the rails, and, afforded plenty of time to
settle down, came at the right end of the
race to score without apparent effort. E.
Baxter, who was associated with J. M. Cam-
eron when The Hawk first visited Australia,
rode a perfect race on Rosetta.
Philip Russell, of the V.R.C. committee,
belongs to an old family of turf patrons. In
1891 his brother George carried off the Aus-
tralian Steeplechase with Busaco. From
Pantolette. a mare which he imported from
England, Philip Russell bred Sans Culottc
(by Woorak) and Count Orloff (by Ethio-
pian). The training of both these horses
was entrusted to C. T. Godby. Big things
were expected of Sans Culotte, but she did
not stand up to racing. There may be con-
stitutional weakness in Count Orloff. Early
in the season he caused a sensation by start-
ing at 50 to 1 and almost running awav with
a Moonee Valley event. This suggested
classic possibilities, but the grey gelding
made only one subsequent appearance until
Saturday, when he was backed “off the
card” for Rosetta’s race. It was a misfire,
as Count Orloff did nothing right from start
to finish.
Rondalina’s finishing effort in the William
Reid Stakes at Moonee Valley was so meri-
torious that Harry Telford dispatched her
by train for Sydney, an hour or so after-
wards to compete in the Adrian Knox
Stakes. Since Telford lost Phar Lap his
stable has been weak, but Rondalina mav
revive its fallen fortunes. Holt, who had
Gallantic engaged in the Knox Stakes, landed
the first division of the Warrook Highweight
with Umbertana. who. backed like a certaintv,
romped home. The Salatis gelding belongs ro
J. M. Niall, of the V.R.C. committee. Holt
has sent Second Wind to Tasmania for the
King’s Cup, and will follow him over by
steamer from Sydney.
Progeny of Top Gallant were in the lime-
light at the Valley. The middle-distance
Caldermeade Handicap went to Maharatta,
owned and trained by Lou Robertson, while
Gallopade and Gallibrnok ran second and
third, respectively, in the race won by Ros-
etta. It is a great pity that Top Gallant
should have died after such a brief stud
career. Robertson trained the imported stal-
lion when he won the Futurity Stakes.
* * * *
Another important race, the Challenge
Stakes at Randwick, has gone to a three-
year-old. The starter lined up a field of
19, including all the smartest sprinters of
the Sydney contingent, except Greenline and
High Disdain; but most backers voted it
a match between Tom Pinch (7 to 2) and
Pentlieus (6 to 1). Both ran well, but not
well enough. Holdfast (14 to 1), who was
unexpectedly weak in the betting, though he
looked nice and bright, made most of the
running, with Tom Pinch, and always looked
to be going a bit the better of the pair. But
just when he had shaken off the other black
gelding Knox brought Golden Gate (12 to
1) along, and though her course was some-
what erratic the filly finished so brilliantly
that she cut Holdfast out of it by a neck,
Tom Pinch being another length and a
quarter away. Behind the favorite came
Pentlieus, Venetian Lady (shaping as if
another Doncaster may not be beyond her),
Casque d’Or and Gold Digger; the last-
named and Bayacre (an early winner) got
bad runs.
G. N. Magill owns Golden Gate, who is
Maoriland-bred, being by Limond—Royal
Exchange. She is trained at Randwick by
J. W. Barden, wh.o is having a very suc-
cessful season, though he lost the services
of Vigne. That good horse, after a series of
successes reminiscent of Cragford’s in the
spring of 1929, went poor and died of some
mysterious ailment after the Caulfield Cup—-
again like Cragford, whom he rather
resembled in appearance.
Golden Gate’s triumph drew attention to
her chance in the Adrian Knox Stakes. An-
other candidate for that race, the attractively-
bred Gloriole (by Heroic out of Gloaming’s
Sister), hung on stoutly in the Bondi Handi-
cap after making the pace a cracker (the
seven furlongs were traversed in lmin.
25sec., whereas the six of the Challenge
Stakes took lmin. llsec.), but Maybe (8
to 1) got in the last run and beat her by
half a length. Maybe, who belongs to Percy
Miller, is by Magpie-Native Bee, and is
a good handicap horse in the making. Tan-
trum, winner of last year's Adrian Knox
Stakes, had the easiest victory of the day in
the Paddington Handicap, for which she
was backed from 7 to 2 to 6 to 4.
Satinoth and Denis Boy, from Frank
McGrath’s stable, were saddled up for the
January Handicap. “They’re both try-
ing,” a bookmaker said to a customer, who
seemed duly impressed; and there was obvi-
ously a genuine commission for each. Sat-
motli finished up at 9 to 2; Denis Boy, after
receding to sevens, came back to fives, which
was Rosendo’s price. Jeypore, whom Bartle
—perhaps unwisely—restrained from going
to the front in the early stages, had the
lead in the straight. He was almost imme-
diately passed by Satinoth; but the three-
year-old could not withstand Denis Boy’s
challenge, though he battled on gamely, and
was only beaten by three-quarters of a
length. With a 71b. allowance for an appren-
tice being in the saddle, the Caulfield Cup
winner had the luxurious weight of Bst.
41b.; and the boy (Welsh) rode him quite
well. Roley (6 to 1) was a fair third, but
the unbacked Inducement was overhauling
him at the finish; Jeypore and Rosen do were
next. Denis Boy cover the ten furlongs in
2min. Sisec.
In spite of a reduced attendance, com-
pared with the 1931 Challenge Stakes day,
tote receipts leaped from £20,691 then to
£24,421. Win-and-place betting has taken
on, even though a stupid Government
demands 9 p.c. of the pool—the clubs get
34 p.c., out of which they have to' recom-
pense the tote co., plus unclaimed divs. and
fractions of sixpences. With the Govern-
ment tax lowered to 5 p.c. and a doubles
machine added, receipts would go up still
more and the s.-p. shops would lose their
attractions for many. The number of
Randwick bookmakers operating in doubles
testifies to the popularity of that form of
betting. They could not compete with a
tote, and the s.p. parties and tax-dodgers
would not try.
* * * *
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Three-year-old Handicap: Town Topic;
next. Irish Eyes.
Flying Handicap: Gold Digger; next,
Vallage.
Moorefield Handicap: Magnetic; next,
Rosendo.
Hurstville Mile; Wedding Feast; next,
Just Gold.
* * * *
“Tia Juana”: Australia sighed with
genuine relief when informed the other day
that the country’s most important primary
export, Pliar Lap, had landed in California
in the best of health. In the chestnut’s
big the Agua Caliente Handicap
of 50,000 dollars, he will have to carry top
weight, 9.3. That is about equal to w.f.a. for
the mile and a quarter in America, and in
itself should not trouble him. Perhaps his
toughest proposition will be. Spanish Play,
which has this season won a couple of the
many American Derbies and will be receiv-
ing 121 b. from the visitor.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Pat Appleton (11.1) gave Bob Thornton
(11.6) a ton of trouble at Leichhardt last
Friday night, until an accidental head-bump
gashed his left cheekbone. Thornton had
about evened matters when the gash opened
further. The referee, on examining the in-
jury, decided that Appleton could not con-
tinue. AVry little science was seen, but the
Tassie’s tear-in tactics furnished plenty of
fight -
rn T . , ;; , “ .
Russian lorn Lunch (14.6) was again
too rough for Walter Browning (14 3) in
last week’s wrestling at Leichhardt, and
won by two falls to one, in seven rounds.
Punches (rabbit-killers especially) were
plentiful. Lunch pinned his opponents
shoulders for the deciding fall after upset-
ting him with a kick on the solar-plexus.
Eddie Daniels (11.2) knew too much about
boxing for Jim iVleiglicin (11.0), and stopped
him in the sixth round.
_
1 he Ins and Outs
The return Sheffield game between N.S.W.
and Victoria at Sydney was not particu-
larly interesting, though McCabe notched
his second three-figure score in first-
class cricket with 106. Other scorers
of note were Fingleton (40) and Kip-
pax (36), Bradman being content this
time with a modest 23. The innings
ended for 348, Ironmonger (3-94) being the
principal wicket-getter. With Woodfull
keeping Ponsford company in Melbourne,
Jack Ryder skippered the Vies., who
went for 204 after a very dull display. In-
deed, the most interesting thing about the
spectacle was the fact that the team included
seven left-handers, which must be a record.
Oakley (48) and O’Brien (38) were the
chief contributors to the score. Wickets
were well divided, McCabe (3-56) and
O’Reilly (3-52) getting the lions’ share. In
their second attempt the N.S.AA 7 . openers,
Bill and Fingleton, devoted most of their
energies to appealing against the light, and
had made 24 without loss when the ump.
listened to their tale of woe.
* * * *
The Springboks didn’t cover themselves
with glory on their tour of Tassy, though
they won their second match against the
Speck after drawing the first. Tasmania has
a capital all-rounder in Atkinson, who scored
well and consistently against the visitors
in the four innings he played. The Afri-
kanders have received their programme for
the hurried Maoriland tour. Opening against
Auckland Province at Auckland on February
23, play a Test at Christchurch, begin-
ing on February 27, and another at Welling-
ton, which starts on March 4. All are
tliree-day games.
* * * «
The South Africans followed up their Tas-
manian tour with a good start in the return
game against the South Aussies, whom they
dismissed for 197, after Richardson (53)
and Nitschke (62) had given the home
side a good start. As in the first match
between these teams, McMillan proved deadly,
taking 6 for 91. The Africans improved the
shining hour from the jump, Nos. 1 to 9
all getting well into double figures. Taylor
played a fine shot for 97, Mitchell following
with a stodgy 82. Then came left-hander
Vincent with 83, Christy with 74 and Cam-
eron with a fast-made 37. At stumps on
Saturday all were out for 512, leaving the
Wheatfielders with 315 to get to save the
innings defeat. Grimmett took 6 for 155,
though the visitors shaped much more con-
fidently against him than on any previous
occasion. Let us hope they will repeat the
performance in the fourth Test in Adelaide
this week.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: There seems to be one soul
in Australia who declines to bow the knee
to Baal —what the writer intends to convey
in this connection is the hero-worship of
prominent professional athletes so carefully
fostered by the lower-class press. No one has
a greater respect and admiration for Don
Bradman than the writer, but he is willing to
confess that his heart went out to a Sydney
citizeness who the other day showed the
magic of his name to her was but as sound-
ing brass and a tinkling cymbal. Don was
playing in an off-day match in one of the
Sydney suburbs, and hit a ball out of the
ground through two panes of glass in an
adjacent house. Full of confidence, a mem-
ber of the fielding side went to recover it.
H'e was close to a cot case when the indig-
nant “lady of the house” refused to sur-
render the pill until the damage was paid for.
She is actually alleged to have said that she
had never heard of Bradman, but the semi-
unconscious messenger, after he made his
escape, is generally considered to have been
temporarily out of his mind in this respect.
=!-• * * *
“Fitzcray”: Melbourne football followers
got a shock when the M.O.C. decided to close
its big ground for reconditioning during the
winter. This means that it will not be
available for football until July at least.
which will mean a good deal to the clubs m
of' Jiff l \% n ° gro ™ d
turf has ?eceil t lv h,!!n! / - capaclty { f Th «
. ,1.1 ‘ . 3nr) a lot of
Jvervthin- n ’!i ke f-' ha 1 U" K
lishl J en iT e ave in slgh? y mC he
b
(Continued on page 31.)
~ *
“Boy” Charlton showed that his perform-
ailce the previous week in the N.S.W. half-
miie championship, when lie hoisted l'Omin.
2 2sec. and put up a new Australian record,
was no fl as h in the pan, bv excelling it at
Sydney Domain Baths last Saturday. Paced
by his young rival, Noel Ryan, he got up a
tremendous bat in the quarter-mile title
event and won in 4min. 55 2-ssec. a State
aiK i Australian record, and only 3 2-ssec
from the world’s best, made by Weissmuller
in & small bath with plenty of turns where-
as the N.S.W. race was over a 55-yard lap.
Scarcely less meritorious was the time of
young Noel Ryan, who was two feet away
second. He recorded 4min. 56sec., which
a^ao broke the previous Australian best by
° 4-osec.
* * * *
mv, o n 4-i,„ x,. . . . m ...
.i n a t br ? t '' « 1S between
Melbourne came as
: : w ' . v .• 1 ~ ' :c [ supporteis, Japan
iT L b / ru bei i%, l6 sets ’
Not t,m i, ? i ’ 15 " games-
/ the dapanese wa J e
* " d,i m n Sat °b was the
x n ° , on ’ Crawford, Hop-
“ and tl bulb , ? arada wan two of
rp 11 ? b p g opman and
i m , T , o ,y n I to fl p r
JS® do f ub l es
I ‘1 b /i w ' ll ! ing two
* b ™ at , J-fl 11 y A d V ut xt t,eems to /°
teBmaw V fcr
_
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: One of the features of
the control of Sydney recreation areas is the
indifference of trustees to the terms of their
trusts. After a period of abstention, the folk
in control of Sydney Cricket Ground have
agreed to give the professional Rugby League
footballers a share of the season’s dates. Pre-
viously they had put the League in full pos-
session of the ground during the football
season for years until public opinion was
aroused. Similarly, the trustees' of the
Sydney Sports Ground some time ago turned
over their arena to the League, that body
still enjoying the privilege. One wonders
liow these gentlemen reconcile these deals
with the fact that both grounds, under the
trust, are granted for amateur sport only.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: I am glad to note that
shortage of funds is likely to confine the
number of the Australian team for the
Californian Olympiad to very small dimen-
sions. My particular reason for bringing
up the point is the hope that female ath-
letes of all descriptions will be excluded.
As an eminent authority on the subject
said to me the other day, the minxes re-
fuse to train, accept all the chocolates and
similar condition-destroying foods that an
indiscriminating male public desires to force
on them, and get off the ship at the end of
the voyage in no condition to win any prize
but that for a fat-lady competition at a
country show.
* * * *
“Bowen Bridge”: The N.S.W. Rugby
Union premiers, Eastern Suburbs, are to
visit Queensland this coming season, thus
reviving an old precedent. The first Union
visit of the kind took place as long ago
as 1894, when Sydney University played a
series of matches in Bananaland. There were
quite a lot of players on the Uni. side who
were destined to become notable in later
days, among them being H. D. Wood, now
prothonotary of the Supreme Court, and
F. S. Boyce, ex-Attorney-Gcneral and to-day
a thorn in the side of Langism in the
N.S.W. Legislative Council.
* * * *
“Tenakoe” : Not since Maui pulled Maori-
land out of the sea with his fishing-line has
such a change come over the face of things
as .when the M.L. Rugby Union announced
last week that it had decided to abolish
the wing-forward, for long the mainstay of
All Black sides and the chief reason for
argument between them and their opponents
in many lands. It has been calculated that
if the breath blown through whistles by non-
M.L. umpires, officiating in matches between
the All Blacks and other teams, for Aving-
forward offside decisions alone could be
collected, it would exceed that wasted by all
the politicians since the first sittings of the
Witenagemot in Saxon England. That the
change will reform the type of forward who
delights to “beat the rules” cannot be sup-
posed for a moment. He will now style
himself a “breakaway,” and in that position
will continue to earn as many free-kicks'
against his side as ever did “Offside” Mc-
Kenzie or Ueorge Porter.


file Australian Art Exhibition
'THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
f Bulletin D'uiffiinqT |
ii 252 Georqe street. u
T» s v D m e v if
<3
See announcement page 13.
m
Tiic man who has revitalised
thousands of neurasthenic eases.
Nerves?
Bashful 7
A STARTLING NEW BOOK BY A
FORMER SUFFERER OFFERED FREE
TO EVERY NERVOUS READER.
'J'HERE is no greater obstacle to social and
business success than a nervous and shy
disposition. There is no human weakness so
humiliating and responsible for so much secret
misery and despair as this unfortunate afflic-
tion. Nervousness deprives you of the ability
to reveal your real self, to develop your talents,
and make a headway in the battle of life.
Neither ambition, talent nor hard work can
achieve success when handicapped by nervous
fears.
If you are a victim of this distressing mental
disorder, if you are nervous and shy, if you
blush and stammer when spoken to, if you feel
awkward and embarrassed in company, if you
are letting opportunities slip by through being too
nervous to step out of the crowd and become
a leader instead of one of the led —here is a real
chance to conquer your weakness instead of letting
it conquer you —here is your chance to become
forceful and red-blooded.
FREE BOOK!
A remarkably interesting book, explaining how
you can cure yourself privately at home, as I
did, will be sent in a plain sealed envelope to
all sufferers sending 4d. to cover cost of postage.
Write at once in confidence to
FREDERICK GRAY,
DESK 6,
LOMBARD CHAMBERS,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
mail now
FREDERICK GRAY, DESK 6,
LOMBARD CHAMBERS,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me absolutely Free and
without any obligation on my part whatever a
copy of your book, “Nerve Strength, Self-
consciousness and Personality.” I enclose 4d. in
stamps for postage.
Name
Address
27/'l/’32.
The Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: W. L. Kelly, manager of
the last Australian cricket team to tour
England—he of the famous 39 Articles, to
wit —is putting a scheme before the Board
of Control which is, at least, worthy of
serious consideration. It amounts to giving
the Australian States outside the present
Sheffield Shield ring a chance to figure in
the Shield competition, and to catch the
eye of selectors of Australian Elevens. Dis-
tance and the consequent expense prohibit
the actual introduction of Westralia and
Tasmania to the competition as States.
Kelly’s idea is that Tasmania, .shall be re-
garded as part of Victoria, and Westralia
as part of South Australia, in a cricket sense.
This would permit the inclusion in South
Australian or Victorian teams of promising
cricketers who. otherwise have no chance of
recognition as international possibilities. All
the delegates save those from N.S.W. and
Queensland have expressed themselves in
favor of the change. The attitude of these
two States is at present unknown.
* *
“Stumps”: The Shivery Island cricketer
Blunt, who toured England last year, is in
a class by himself. Abroad, he has made
eight centuries for Maoriland, with his 225
n.o. against the Gentlemen of England last
year as his highest. He first played as a
M L rep. in 1920-21 against Vernon Hans-
ford s Australian XI, and now has scored
more runs for M.L. than any other player.
His aggregate of 4522 for first-class matches
exceeds Dempster’s by 531 runs. And only
Merritt lias taken mote wickets for M.L.
than Blunt.
=l= * s|! ;[; .
“Shrewsbury”: One of the afflictions
which the followers of cricket in England
and Australia have to bear with what
patience they can command is the monstrous
army of superannuated players who are
engaged to write accounts and impressions of
cricket matches, and so send many profes-
sional journalists who have to sub-edit their
tripe to a premature grave. These people
have almost invariably stirred up dissension
between the rival sides —one can recall with-
out effort several cases in England and Aus-
tralia,. with the rejects of both countries con-
tributing to the box-on. This coming season
we are threatened with a particularly omi-
nous specimen of the type. As a cricketer,
Jack Hobbs commanded the respect of Aus-
tralians. As an individual, on his last visit
or two, he gave more than one indication of
a tendency to. swelled head, and showed,
even on the cricket field, that tact was not
his strong suit. In short, the cabled state-
ment. that Hobbs will accompany the next
English team in the capacity of press cor-
respondent for a newspaper syndicate is not
one which will be received on this side of
the world with enthusiasm.
* * * *
“Baining”: As promised (B. 13/l/’32),
I furnish the account of the fifth and final
Test match between New Britain and New
Ireland. It was won by the New British,
who took the usual cowardly advantage of
their superior capacity to score 192 runs.
Then, following up their advantage, their
wiles left the disthressful New Irish bereft,
the side scoring only 30 and 79 in the two
innings. There is some consolation in the
fact that the losers put up something of a
record in the first innings, since the top score
was 5. On this occasion the New British
did not offend by keeping the inhabitants of
New Ireland awake with their vocal efforts
in the. small hours of the morning after
their victory. Forewarned, the New Irish
tendered them a banquet, and by the time
that was over the divil a squeak was there
in any of the invaders.
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court”: Not altogether unex-
pected was Jean Borotra’s decision last week
to resign from Davis Cup singles. The volatile
Basnue is getting long in the tooth, and his
super-energetic style of play is not one
which can be maintained for ever, even by
the best-trained athlete. His decision was
probably prompted by the fact that Lacoste
is said to have agreed to return to first-class
tennis. With Lacoste, Cochet, Brugnon and
Borotra available, even if Borotra only
figures as a doubles player, France’s chance
of retaining the Davis Cup looks consider-
ably brighter than it did a couple of months
ago.
* ' * * *
“Toowong”: The selection of N. S. Welsh-
man Ray Dunlop for the second tennis Test
against Japan at Perth may be all right
from the point of view of giving the young
’uns a spin, but it has thrown Queens-
land tennis addicts into an agitated condi-
tion of “ Whaffor?” They wanted Moon. The
hefty farmer certainly has a good record.
While Dunlop is admittedly a second-rate
singles player, Moon has been seen at his best
mnd that is very good—both on his own and
with a partner. He was not beaten in
doubles during the Davis Cup trials of 1930,
though he and his partners were stacked up
against all the candidates. Overseas, too, he
won all his singles matches before the acci-
dent to his leg practically put him out of
the tour. However, he will be showing in
the national championships at Adelaide, and
tfiat is where Queensland reckons it is going
to get a bit of its own back.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Ivokopo”: They order some things better
in New Guinea. Writer has just received a
programme for a match at the Rabaul golf
club between teams chosen by the president
and captain. The match should be over by
now, but, whatever the issue, it must have
had the true New Year spirit if the rules wore
strictly observed. In the first place, the
match was not to be over the customary
18 holes but 19 —this number being specially
stressed. Further, the losing team was to
invite the winners to a dinner and pay for
it, while all drinks had to be bought by the
losers of individual matches. There is a
fine flavor in all that of the Scottish golf
clubs of a hundred years ago, whose books
show that matches of the kind were of fre-
quent occurrence and that the penalties
imposed on the losers were even more
drast-hic.
* * * *
“Shirley”: Arthur Duncan, probably the
finest golfer Maoriland has produced and
one ot the greatest amateurs in any com-
pany, completed his 32nd year of champion-
ship golf for the 1931 season. He first
won the M.L. amateur title in 1899, and
since then lias taken it 10 times, the last
occasion being in 1926, while he was runner-
up to Rana Wagg in 1931. In addition ho
has won the M.L. open three times and
club and provincial titles by the hundred,
lie was last seen in Sydney for the 192 S
Australian championships, when his skill
with tlie masliie, a club with which he is a
wizard, astonished all hands.
“Southport”: Here is another golf prob-
lem which has been giving golf experts and
club treasurers in the Old Country head-
aches, and one which seems to me even
more important than that referred to by
“Hoylake” (B. 20/l/’32). It gains an
added piquancy by the fact that it happened
in Yorkshire, a county where everyone
knows pound notes slip through the inhabi-
tants’ fingers like flypaper. A player was
conceded a stroke a hole by his opponent.
He holed his. first in one and therefore
took it In nothing. A strenuous effort
was made by his fellow-members and the
club officials to make him paty the conven-
tional penalty for finding the tin with his
tee shot, but he declined, taking his stand
on the legal point that as he had holed
out in nix lie could not logically he con-
victed of doing so in one.
* * * %
“Tig Juana” : The Scots have not had it
their own way in American golf this season
(B. 20/l/’32). The open championship at
Agua Caliente, just over the Yank border
in Mexico, and now renowned as the
place where Phar Lap is to race,
carries big purses for the pros, and good
trophies for the other fellows This year
it was won by Fred Morrison, of California,
THE SUPERMAN.
SHE: “I thought you said he urns a good golfer.”
HE: “Well, isn’t he? Why, he can play the game in seven languages."
with Gene Sarazen, ex-professional cham-
pion of America, second. Winner’s card
was 284 for the 72 holes. Australia’s old
friends Joe Kirkwood and Walter Hagen
were well down the course, with 294 and
297 respectively.
■* * * *
“Sandringham” : What is the reason that
golf is practically abandoned in Victoria
during the latter half of the summer, except
in the case of metropolitan clubs? And even
these hardly get enough custom to make the
nineteenth pay expenses. A photograph in
a Victorian weekly the other day showed a
big mob of sheep grazing on four-inch-high
grass on a country course. Conditions seem
to be the other way about in N.S.W. and
Queensland, though in both States summer
conditions out back are much more trying
than anything Victoria knows, as a rule.
.
“Divot Digger” : There is something in
the contention that golf is responsible for
marital infelicities (B. 20/l/’32), but there
is something to be said for the other side of
the picture. One of the most charming
romances I can recall in a fairly wide ex-
perience rose out of golf. She was an ardent
addict, but a hopeless dud, whom even the
old Scots pro., famous for never letting
a possible bawbee get past him, at last
gave up in despair. He was a plus man in
half a dozen swanky golf clubs, and he -wor-
shipped the ground she dug up with her iron
shots. In spite of his pleadings, however,
she spurned his suit, though she dearly
loved him in his plus-fours—forgive me if
I am getting into an Etheldellish vein.
Determined to win her he deliberately threw
his game away. Then one day, when his
handicap had become something like minus
25. lie threw himself at her feet and was
accepted. It was a fearful sacrifice on his
part, as every golfer will recognise, but
love is an all-consuming passion. I wonder
sometimes, though, whether the fact that the
lady had £25,000 a year had anything to
do with his self-immolation.
“Funafuti”: That Manchester golfer’s
experience with an earthquake (B. 20/l/’32)
was a pup compared Avith what happened
to myself and a partner trading down in
the Gilberts once upon a time. Being both
Scots we fixed up a golf course of five holes,
and the day after our supply schooner came
in with the usual six-monthly stores —mostly
gin, salmon and calico —we decided to play
a match for the championship of the atoll.
Wo both noticed peculiar conditions when
starting the round, the ground being very
shaky, making it difficult to get a firm
stance. My partner played an approach
shot into the atoll lagoon and insisted he
had holed out. While we were arguing the
point on the edge of the water the whole atoll
was engulfed by an earthquake. At least, that
is the conclusion we arrived at when we
woke up in the morning on the inner beach
soaked in seawater. The occurrence was
not referred to St. Andrews for the reason
that we let it slide until the gin gave out,
and after that, of course, nothing really
mattered.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: With beach conditions at
Kaitaia improving, it is possible that
Wizard Smith may have succeeded or failed
in his attempt on the world’s motor-car
speed record by the time this sees print.
Whatever the result, it is worth noting that
a more important factor in the perform-
ance than even the super-engine and car
is the type of tyre used. The Australian-
made Dunlop-Pefdriaus fitted to the
Harkness car weigh 571 b. each, the tubes
going 71b. Soz. Smith considers he should
reach 275 m.p.h. At this rate a centri-
fugal force of 32401 b. will be doing its
best to tear the rubber off the covers.
Campbell’s tyres at Daytona were guaran-
teed a life of 30 seconds by the Dunlop
co. They stood the first one-way run so
well that he did not bother to change them,
and after the second were, to all appear-
ances, equal to further service, though the
guaranteed life had been well exceeded.
$ * * *
“Differential”: One aspect of the modern
craze for motor speed records indicates
that it is even a more expensive one than
those for fast women and slow horses. The
exact cost of the Australian enterprise, con-
tributed by a Sydney syndicate, has not yet
been definitely determined, though it is pro-
bably lower than that of some of its prede-
cessors, since the engine is lent by the
British Government at a practically nominal
charge of £5OO for overhaul expenses
when it. is returned. Segrave’s Golden
Arrow, apart from the engine, cost a trifle
under £12,000, while Dunlops spent £3OOO
experimenting before tyres that would stand
up to 250 m.p.h. were evolved. Malcolm
Campbell’s Blue Bird, again not counting
the engine, ate up close on £20,000, and alto-
gether his connection with this and other
racing machines has cost him over £BO,OOO.
On his trip to Daytona, out-of-pocket exes,
alone were £12,000, yet he is talking of
going back again in a few days if Smith
tops his record.
❖ * * *
“Como”: The enterprising Victorian
Light Car Club, first in Australia to stage
a speed race for motor-cars on the roads,
will hold its fifth annual Grand I’rix at
the old address on Phillip Island on
March 14. The run is over a 200-mile
circuit, and a change has been made in the
conditions. In previous races the winner
has been the driver making the fastest time.
On this occasion the event will be a straight-
out handicap race, first past the post collect-
ing the £lOO put up as first prize. Second
takes £4O and third £2O, while the lad with
the fastest time, wherever he finishes, will
pouch a couple of ponies. Any car not
exceeding 2000 c.c. can enter.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: The British Autocycle
Union has again invited a party of Aus-
tralians to take part in the Isle of
Man Tourist Trophy races. The selection
committee will chose two riders, the three
judges being W. J. Goodwin, of N.S.W.;
A. Moyle, of South Australia; and F. L.
Yott, of Victoria. The contest consists of
three races. The Junior will be run on June
0. the Lightweight two days later, the
Senior, for the largest class of machines,
on June 10. Each race will be over
tbe same course, a seven-lap road cir-
cuit totalling 264 miles, and one of the
trickiest and stiffest in the world. Aus-
tralia was represented last year by Stuart
Williams and Dave Brewster, who per-
formed creditably.
Miscellaneous
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum is prob-
ably the most disappointed man on earth.
Before he left Australia to undertake his
present tour of England lie announced that
he intended —not “hoped,” as lesser mortals
might have done —that he would make
a 5000 break. Well, in a match against
Joe Davis, champion of England, he failed
to keep his promise by 863 points, his con-
tribution being only 4137. It is true that
this beats his own world’s record of 3805
by a street, but it must have been a horrible
disappointment to him. The break lasted
175 minutes, and included 15 sequences of
nursery cannons. The fact that Davis who
is receiving 5000, made 1247 just before
seems to have annoyed Walter.
“Spike”: The Australian athletic cham-
pionships in Sydney saw Victoria easily
retain the title of boss State, the Yarramen
scoring nine wins to seven by N.S.W., in
addition to numerous second and third plac-
ings. Queensland bagged two firsts and
South Australia had to be content with a
pair of seconds. The greatest individual
feat was Jim Carlton’s run in the 220 on
the second day, when he equalled the world’s
record with 20 3-ssec. There was a slight
quartering breeze, and the referee ruled it
an assisting wind, which means that the
time will not be officially recognised. Four
new Australian records also went up. Wal-
lace, of Victoria, started with 140 ft. llin. for
the discus-throw; Golding, of N.S.W., took
the hurdles in 53 9-10scc —only 1 3-10scc.
worse than the world’s best —while Victorian
Ilillhouse won the three-mile scamper in
14min. 23 l-ssec. Carlton's feat has already
been recorded.
“Tbe Gaffer”: The most staggering ex-
perience that has struck N.S.W. since Lang
won the elections was Jim Carlton’s
announcement last week that he had done
with the running track and would straight-
way begin to qualify for a priesthood. This
is a big setback to Australian hopes of
scoring at the Los Angeles Olympiad. Carl-
ton is probably the best amateur runner
Australia has produced since Wally Mac-
pherson as far as the sprints are concerned,
and lately he showed signs of formidable
capacity over the quarter. While he will be
sadly missed from the tracks, no lover of
athletics worth his salt will cavil at his
decision that there are more serious things
in. life than the career of a public gladiator.
A fine type of young Australian, he will have
the best wishes of his fellow-countrymen on
his entry to his new career.
“Ilotham” : The Australian Olympic team
is to be chosen in Melbourne on February
S. Charlton picks himself, but now that
Carlton is out of the game it is question-
able whether it is worth while sending any-
one else: Pearce, now in Canada, can be
accredited at small expense. In any case
the. team will have to be a small one, and
entirely male in personnel. To send even
one girl, however industriously boomed,
is to send a chaperon, and in these
days, when money is as tight as an out-of-
work who has broken into a brewery, the
expense entailed is out of the question.


Sleek hair
Make your hair sleek, soft and
lustrous by feeding its dry,
weakened roots with the rich,
pure nourishment of Rowland’s
Macassar Oil every day.
0 f Chemists,
Stores and
II a i r d ressers,
3/6, 7/- and
10/6. Red for
dark hair,
golden for fair
or grey hair.
«s
Rowland^
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
22 Laystall Street, Rosebery Avenue.
LONDON, E. 0.1, ENGLAND.
J. H. & CO
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000-
CAPITAL PAID UP - - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND:
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYIIVRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lS Birchin Lane. Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts ot
the world.
*ll Classes or General Banking and Exchange Business Tranoacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local.
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenstand's
Distinguished Social Life.
The other day this Letter paused before
a shop window in Castlereagh-street, caught
by two neat little placards on two attractive
frocks. One sign read “Made in New South
Wales,” the other, “Made in Victoria.” And
the thought arose that maybe our manufac-
turers of women’s raiment would soon be
stamping their frocks, hats and undies with
their names, so that women from New
Guinea to Fremantle would go into shops
demanding a Smith hat or a Robinson frock,
and have the assistants produce them as
proudly as they now do a Conder hat or a
Molyneux model. Hitherto, with a few
exceptions, retailers claimed the right when
they bought manufactured goods to stamp
the name of their firm instead of that of the
maker on shoe, hat or stocking, so that the
woman of Australia has never been edu-
cated, like her American and English sister,
to discriminate between goods turned out
by different factories or designers. The posi-
tion must have been about as satisfactory
to a man. who took a pride in his job as
to sing for ever without applause would be
to a great tenor.
The expected lias happened, and Mary
Bullmore and Tony Hordern have announced
their engagement. Mary is 21, a slim bru-
nette, who wears her clothes well, the young-
est of Dr. H. 11. Bullmore’s four daughters
and a great friend of Mary Hordern, Tony’s
eldest. The young bride will have two beau-
tiful homes to step into —Retford Hall at
Darling Point, and Milton Park at Bowral.
Tony Hordern is among the State’s
wealthiest men. He is a keen polo-player—
he captains the Sydney team —and, like his
brother Sam, is interested in cattle. His first
wife was Viola Bingham, daughter of Colonel
Bingliam, in her girlhood one of the belles
of Melbourne. She was one of the few
women who could wear pearls and not look
blighted, and she owned a marvellous rope
of them. She died in London about two
years ago as a result of pneumonia. Two
children, Tony and Dinah, are in England;
Dinah was one of Patricia Richards’s brides-
maids when Patricia became Countess of
Jersey.
All the fashionables turned up at Nell
Cobcroft’s wedding (she’s the elder of the
C. V. Gobcrofts’ pretty girls), and while. St.
Mark’s rocked on a southerly the marriage
bonds were made firm by Canon Lea. Over
100 guests decorated the pews, and satins,
brocades and georgettes rustled and .swished
softly; many of the dresses swung the new
little shoulder cape edged with fur. The
bride’s ivory satin frock wore long sleeves
;fnd a long train, her veil of ivory tulle was
kept in place by two narrow ropes of seed
pearls, and she carried a sheaf of Japanese
lilies from which fell trails of mauve orchids.
The bride’s sister Muriel and cousin Kath-
leen added coral-pink georgettes frilled to
form the modern bustle effect. Funny little
all-at-one-side hats and flower muffs of pink
carnation embellished with a true-love’s
knot in forget-me-nots were other high lights
in their raiment. Bridegroom Bill Gun-
ning, a son of the late W. J. Gunnings, of
Potts Point, was supported by Beresford
Grant and Bill Bird. The reception was
at the Rose Bay Golf Club.
This can’t be very far from an Australian
record: W. J. Hanna, who died last week,
bad been a boarder at the Metropolc for
28 years. He didn’t deliberately pick it
either. He was a Public Works engineer who
had to make occasional excursions to the
city, and the Metropole just happened to be
handy. When he settled in Sydney, first
as Under-Secretary for Works and after-
wards as one of the Public Service Board,
he saw no reason why he should move on.
Wliat an ideal husband he would have made!
Yet he never married —he was for 40 years
one of our most gallant bachelors. Until
he was nearly 80 he was unhappy if the
weather wouldn’t let him have his two after-
noons of tennis a week.
Mary Mort, of one of the State’s old
families, daughter of the John Laidley
Morts, of Ballast Point-road, Balmain, be-
came Mrs. Rupert White, of Wollongong,
last week within St. Mary’s. Ivory satin,
tulle and old family lace swirled in the
conventional surf around the bride’s foot-
steps. Father Bartlett tied the knot. The
cake, the creation of an aunt, Mrs. G. V.
Elsworth, of Mudgoo, was cut in the home
of another ain't Miss Laidley Mort, of Ken-
more, Double Bay.
Not many suburban mayoresses have had
the honor of holding office for six years. But
Mrs. H. L. Primrose, of North Sydney,
enjoys the distinction, and last week the
wives of N. S. aldermen and the members
of the Shore’s distress fund committee
offered their congratulations at a party at
Parkdale House, the. home of Mrs. J. Giles.
The ballroom was gaily decorated in the
guest’s honor, and a lei of roses was placed
around her neck by the hostesses, Mrs. Giles
and Mrs. Wellington.
Mayne Linton and his wife, Nancye
Stewart, were among last week’s fire-fighters
when Den o’ Gwynne, now their home, and
formerly Nellie Stewart’s, on Bradley’s
Head, was threatened. It escaped with little
more than a scorching; but Francoise Mores,
the visiting French violinist, nearly missed
a party thereby. She was waiting for the
Lintons to escort her from the Wentworth
to the Forum Club, when a message came
to say they were busy with the hose. The
Robert Dixsons were; responsible for the wel-
come flutter, and in the club rooms were well
dressed and musically-minded men and
women who found the guest as easy to gaze
upon as Saturday night proved she was to
listen to. Her dark head rose arrestingly
above her white satin frock, and she con-
tinued to smile warmly when by way of
entertainment she was served with a Pro-
gramme of music. Of course, it was good
music. Spencer Thomas, Laurence Godfrey
Smith and Elsie Findlay provided it, but
one sometimes wonders if the musician
wouldn’t find more recreation in a group of
acrobats or illusionists.
Barrister John Gould was telling this Letter
about the Red Mass for lawyers, which will
be said in Sydney at St. Mary’s on . the
second of February at a quarter past eight.
The mass, which is celebrated on the open-
ing day of the first law term, was instituted
last year at the Basilica for the first time
in Australia. The custom, which is a very
ancient one, was revived in England some
years ago, and is now an annual event at
the Westminster Cathedral. America also
has its Red Mass, which is so-called because
of the color of the vestments worn by the
priests. The judiciary and members of the
Bar attend in robes, and solicitors, law
students and articled clerks swell the con-
gregation. Graduates in law who arc not
members of the Bar wear academic dress,
and the whole company forms up in the
grounds and marches in a body into the
cathedral.
The girl with the direct gaze is Eileen
Luke, who has taken on the big job of sec-
retary to the Day Nursery Association, left
vacant when Stella Davies went to graduate
as an almoner
in Londo n.
These day
nurseries,
established in
the poorer
suburbs, are
primarily for
the conveni-
ence of work-
in g mothers
who need safe
harborage for
their babies
d u ring the
day. During
the past year
the strain on
the accommo-
dation has
bc c n severe,
and so far
1932 threat-
ens to bring
the secretary
an equal burden of hard work and deep
thought. The nursery school, started last
year by Mrs. F. P. Hamilton in the Dowling-
street branch, has caught the imagination
of the association, and this year the nursery
.schools are to increase and multiply. Babies
of 18 months can be entered as pupils, but
the tiny mites are not worried with learn-
ing unything but self-dependence. They are
taught how to keep themselves amused, and
gradually how to keep hands, face and teeth
clean, ail being done in the happiest way.
Cazneaux made this picture.
The Bulletin’s Frith waded into the
sea of matrimony u week or so ago, his
comrade in the venture being Dorothy Eliza-
beth Mae Horsley, a Sydney girl with starry
eyes. Frith, who came to The Bulletin
by way of Japan and China, blazed the track
to a permanent engagement on the staff by
producing a little drawing ,of then Premier
Bavin being driven to desperation by the
baiting of J. T. Lang. He comes from Lon-
don, where his widowed mother, Mrs. H. S.
Fi-ith, still makes her home. St. Augus-
tine’s in Neutral Bay blessed the vows.
Old pupils of Claremont College have just
celebrated the 50th birthday of their school.
This makes it one of the oldest privately-
owned schools in Australia, and the oldest
of its kind in N. S. Wales, Claremont was
founded in January. 1882, by Janet Hyland.
\t that time the school was in Judge-street,
Randwick, and it is still in the same suburb,
though it has moved into Coogee Bay-road.
Miss Hyland controlled its destinies until
1896, after which Miss Joyce, now Mrs.
Baxter-Bruoe, became its principal. The
widow of the well-known war correspon-
dent Martin Donohue and Miss Fullerton
(now the wife of artist Albert Collins) were
others who at times have guided the school’s
destinies.
Albert Collins was the young art-teacher
at Claremont when the stately Miss Fuller-
ton was its mistress, and Albert tells a
funny story showing the idea of art as a
profession then obtaining. One old lady, a
friend of the bride-to-be’s good Presbyterian
family, remarked aghast when she heard
what Albert’s job was: “An artist! How
strange! I thought only women were
artists!”
Every now and again Sydney takes a
visiting star to its heart, and socially makes
her the whole Milky Way. This has hap-
pened to Francoise Mores, the violinist, who
is being managed by Jack Brownlow. On
Saturday night, as she stepped with her violin
on to the Conservatorium stage, Francoise
looked as graceful as a sapphic moulded in
bronze. Her clinging satins gleamed like a
bright penny and her night-black hair was
drawn back to define the shape of her head,
and ended in a soft coil at the nape of her
neck. The music and its exponent chimed
in complete harmony. The average woman
sometimes shudders to think what it must
cost her artistic sister for clothes for a
year’s tour. Not only on the stage but off
she must appear well groomed to the small-
est detail. Men are much better off: they
can manage with at the most tw T o glossy
evening outfits, and by day the shaggier they
are the more “soul” is imputed to them.
If you were a small sick girl and had to
leave your home in the Far West a d
hundreds of miles to the doctor, who was
going to make
you well, is
there anybody
you’d rather
trust yourself
to than this
lady ? Leon
Cayley has
caught in his
p h o t o g rapn
the good
nature a n d
big - hearted-
ness of his
subject, the
wife of Padre
S. G. Drum-
mond, of the
Fa r West
C li i 1 d r e n's
II e a 1 t h
Scheme. The
anti r i n g
coupie es-
corted 115
children to this year’s camp at Manly. Of
these a great percentage were surgical cases
—appendixes, legs-to-be-made-straight. and so
on. Fourteen are still in hospital; and
many of them will continue treatment in the
centres nearest their homes. Last week the
kiddies broke camp and were taken home
again, by way of the Blue Mountains and
Orange, where the Country Women’s Associa-
tion always entertains them.
The Anniversary meeting failed to lure
holiday-makers from tin; seaside and moun-
tain-top into the stands at Randwick on
Saturday, and who could blame her who
preferred Palm Beach after Friday’s grilling?
As usual after applying the blister,' Sydney
turned on the bellows of a southerly, and
Saturday’s grey sky' hinted at rain. So
Randwick went bereft of gay frocking, wise
woman sporting hat and frock in useful
colors. The white frocks are awarded the
palm—in marocain or crepe de Chine they
looked the right race outfit in conjunction
with the short red, yellow or striped coat
of the moment. Mrs. Pat Osborne was one
of the notably well-dressed in black with
touches of white; Dr. Bakin’s wife was
black and white from head to heels; Mrs.
Joseph Coen was pictorial in grey, and Mrs.
Oscar Ireland smiled as though she were hav-
ing the luck of the Navy under her wide
beige pink straw hat.
D. S. Browne, a nephew of one-time Chief
Justice Frederick Darley, and one of the
great family to which “Rolf Boldrewood”
belonged, was lately married in Sydney to
Rene Douglas, daughter of the , late Thomas
Douglas, of Taviuni, Fiji. The two will live
at Wan, in New Guinea.
But even a nephew of this State's hand-
some Lieut.-Governor (he was five times
Acting-Governor) will not feel in any social
backwater at Wau. This is quite a pro-
gressive and gay township, with its round
of bridge parties and dances—a sort of Aus-
tralian cousin to the hill stations of India.
It is in the mountains, about seven thou-
sand feet high ; and aeroplanes transport the
foodstuffs, which are quite varied, though a
trifle dear.
Manly is enjoying its best season for five
years, and the automatic ferry turnstiles on
the Quay clank unceasingly as though all the
convict ghosts of old Pinchgut were gnash-
ing their leg-irons therein. Sydney in thou-
sands took this journey, surely the most
beautiful harbor trip in the world, during the
week-end, and hundreds emptied themselves
off the boat into the new shark-proof pool on
the harbor-side. This is now one of the
star attractions of Manly, a regular boon
to the mother whose littlcst ones are afraid
of the surf, and to her who wants to practise
her swimming, yet asks for the gaiety of the
beach. Now, too, the village is tossing the
first balloon of its yearly carnival. By night
the Oorso is looped by strings of brightly-
blooming lanterns, as well as a silver moon
that seems to laugh in the palm tops, and
an evening star that swings low while the
cannas unfurl scarlet and yellow banners to
its glory. And at the end of the Corso there’s
the pine-fringed Pacific. Romance for six-
pence ! And when you have to face the city
and reality another sixpence will buy your
return.
One result of the lean years has been the
closing down of many boarding-houses and
rcsidentials and the increased popularity of
unfurnished rooms. Garage rents, which in the
palmy summers of long ago reached fourteen
shillings a week, are now down to six and
seven shillings. But Manly is “coming back” :
the shops are busy as hives, and one sales-
woman, single-handed, sold 00 dresses of one
sort and another on New Year’s Eve!
An engagement which will link two of
the best-known families of the Federal
Capital Territory is that of Eileen Veronica
Corkhill, of Riverview, to Edmund Joseph
Morrison, of Tralee, Tuggranong. The Mor-
risons were among the earliest settlers at,
the Tuggranong end of the Territory, while
the Corkhill property includes portion of a
grant made to John MacPherson a hundred
years ago for services rendered in the capture
of a bushranger.
Brisbane’s bouquet:—
A gland-daughter of E. Southerden, one of the
old pioneers, was married when Stanley Rogevson
took to wife Thelma Cornell, of Toowoomba. The
Gospel Hall, Hcrries-street, saw the ceremony, and
the bride, who was given away by her father, was
in ivory bridal satin with a broidered tulle veil
under a Madonna cap of Venetian laces. Dulcie
Rawlings ’maided in blue organdie ; Aisla and Nancy
Willis were flower girls, in period frocks of blue
tosca net. The reception was at the Cafe Alexandria.
For Miss A. M. Bignall, Federated Malay States,
the board of the Y.W.C.A. had a morning tea at the
association’s rooms. Mrs. W. H. Barnes hos-
tessed the party in ivory ninon ; the guest of honor
wore navy-blue crgpe de Chine, and the Mayoress,
Mrs. J. W. Greene, ivory crepe de Chine. Miss
Bignall is secretary of the Y.W.C.A. at Kuala
Lumpur.
At St. Andrew’s Matthew Morrison and Dorothy
May Moulday entered the married state. The bride,
who was given away by her father, was in parch-
ment satin, the bodice of Chantilly lace and georg-
ette and tulle veil depending from a Chantilly-lace
cap. Maisie Morris, B. Duke and Alma Gregory
’maided. The Gold-room at the Carlton saw the
feasting.
Archbishop Duhig is having a brief rest cure in
the Mater private hospital. He has been feeling the
heat lately.
Ena Hetherington, Captains Pike and Lucas, "and
N. F. Langdon provided cars to take country visitors
at the C.W.A. seaside homes for a day in the city.
The Museum and Art Gallery were visited and an
inspection made of the Oronsay.
David Cowell-Ham, who has just become an
associate of the Royal Institute of British Archi-
tects, is a Brisbane native. For some years he
made water-color paintings his chief hobby, and
Sir Matthew Nathan, our last Governor, bought
specimens of his work—they now hang in the
Nathan Somerset home. David was previously
an associate of the Royal Australian Institute of
Architects; he did the extension of St. James’s
theatre, Auckland, and was prize-winner in Grace
Bros’, competition for interior decoration. He mar-
ried Evelyn Thompson, a M.L. girl, and they have
two children.
There has been a goodly crop of marriages this
month. At Goondiwindi Joseph Bushell took to
wife Miss D. White. The bride, who was given
away by her brother, was in palest pink satin with
a veil of cut tulle. Ella White and Elsie Bushell
’maided in rose and lemon taffetas, and Jean Bride
was flower girl. In St. Margaret’s, Nerang, Richard
Miller, of Charters Towers, and Phyllis A. Powell
were made one. J. W. Powell gave his sister away;
she wore ivory satin with Brussels-net veil. Hazel
Powell ’maided in pink crepe de Chine. In All
Saints’, Brisbane, Henry Humphreys, of Rockhamp-
ton, and Florence W. Thrupp exchanged vows; the
bride was in parchment georgette over satin, and
Brussels-net veil. Myrtle Allen ’maided in shell-
pink organdie.
Mrs. T. J. Ryan, widow of the Queensland Labor
Premier who became Federal member for West Syd-
ney and deputy-leader of the Opposition, has
announced her intention of standing as a Labor
candidate at the State elections. ■ Queensland
already possesses one woman M.L.A. who has proved
capable, and another on the opposite side of the
House would add to the interest of the debates.
An able woman, Mrs. Ryan gained a deep know-
ledge of politics while her husband was alive,
while as an organiser for charity she has made a
great name for herself in Queensland and Victoria..


w
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ilitual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Cauineia,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
The Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY'
! Bulletin I?uiijJinq
I 252 Georqe btreet
*i| S Y D IN' E •
See announcement page 13.
Let the Perth
Make the New Year a
Happy and Prosperous
One for You.
Keen advertisers have found the big
western weekly ?nost valuable coverage
at minimum cost, for the “Sunday
Times” is popular in every part of
the West. It is the outstanding
example of progress, and during recent
months has increased sales by over
4000 copies weekly.
Let it be your Sunday salesman,
effectively spreading your : message in
all , directions, and reaching the people ;;
who have, the purchasing power.
Prosperity for you during 1932 by
advertising in the weekly with the
circulation of a daily.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800for [?]
Buckley e-Nunn, [?]
[?]
The lawns of Moonee Valley racecourse
on Saturday glowed moss-green amid their
borders of red and white roses arising out
of beds of pink petunias. It was a sunny
day, warmth being tempered by a caressing,
breeze, and a good-sized crowd went out to
see the William Reid Stakes and lesser
events contested. Among the spectators of
the important race was Mrs. William Reid.
There was a good deal of color in the
women’s frocking and millinery.
Lud Mayor Smith was there, also Dr.
Stanley Argyle and his lady. Present as
a guest of the club was Major Bretherton,
lately arrived from England, where he
breeds and races some speedy horses. He
was accompanied by Judge Schutt, who
lives in London these days, but still makes
periodic trips to Australia. Mr. and Mrs.
Rogers Thomson included the two in their
luncheon and afternoon-tea party. Mrs. Ben
Chaffey, wearing white georgette and blue
and white straw millinery, was companioned
by Beth Bell, of Mildura. Mrs. Percy Black-
bourn, in green and biscuit-flowered silk
frock and blending hat, also watched the
racing. Mrs. Paul Daniel’s costume of red,
touched up with fur and topped by a felt
hat, hinted at the approach of autumn. Mrs.
Merritt, who was with her, was a study in
dark-brown georgette. Mrs. J. E. Nagle,
whose golden-brown frock was allied to a
hat of paler hue, brought along Mrs. Alec
McMeekin from Albury, in green crepe de
chine with a coin spot of white and a green
hat. Others there were Mrs. Stewart Fer-
guson and her sister Winnie Tudehope,
Mrs. Alec McCracken, Mrs. J. B. McArthur
and Mrs. J. J. Daly, who had with her her
mother, Mrs. McMahon, from Sydney.
The flags of Australia and Japan flut-
tered over the marquee and central courts at
Ivooyong Tennis Club’s grounds on Thursday
and the following days of the international
matches. There wasn’t much sitting room
available in the arena when the contests
began, and cars were parked in every vacant
allotment or side-street near by. The heat
was oppressive, though the sun was veiled in
smoke, and hordes of roving flies pestered
those who watched the play.. Red was in great
favor with feminine onlookers, perhaps as
a matter of compliment to the visitors.
Frocks were mostly long-sleeved. Patrons
learnt early that the hard wooden seating
accommodation doesn’t add to the pleasure of
the viewer, and after the first morning they
came cushion-laden. Among those who
looked in for the start of the tournament
were Lud Mayor Smith, knights Edward
Mitchell and Leo Cussen, and Norman
Brookes, with his daughters Cynthia and
Ilersey. Mrs. Angus Robertson (Esna Boyd
that was) was there in a pale blue and
white frock and a beige-pink straw hat. Mrs.
Fred Thiel looked cool in a pink-and-wliite
spotted silk gown and white straw hat. Mrs.
Stuart Murray, who wore black, was accom-
panied by her daughter Mary, who blended
hues of brown and fawn in her dress and
millinery. Mrs. R. Fanning and Mrs. W.
Fanning and actress Ethel Morrison, the
last-named in suit of brown-and-wliite crepe
de Chine and matching hat, also watched the
play.
On a broilingly hot afternoon last week
the city from Anzac House to Prince’s Bridge
was hushed, the only sounds being the slow
march of men to a muffled drum and the
strains of a band playing Chopin’s funeral
march. Captain xVlbert Jacka, Australia’s
first V.C. in the Great War, was passing
to his last home with full military honors.
Nearly 6000 attended the lying-in-state at
Anzac House in the morning, and piled
flowers high about the bier. Upon the coffin,
which was draped with the Union Jack and
the colors of the 14th Battalion, was a
sheaf of white blossoms beside the Digger
hat. The crowds that lined the streets, wait-
ing patiently in the sweltering heat, were
composed mostly of men. There was a short
service before the coffin was placed upon the
gun-carriage by eight wearers of the bronze
badge of courage. Men of the 14th Bat-
talion marched steadily in the cort&gc, the
sun streaming down on. uncovered heads, to
the St. Kilda cemetery, where the service
was read by the Rev. F. W. Holland, head-
master of Geelong College and a chaplain
of the 14tli, supported by Padre J. Smiley,
another chaplain, and by Presbyterian Mod-
erator Leggatt.
After a day on which the mercury had
climbed up to 108.9 the slopes of the Domain
bordering St. Kilda-road were crowded thick
at eventide with folk, young and old, stretched
upon the grass trying to get a breath of
fresh air. On the rockeries beneath the
avenues of silver birch, flame and elm trees
dozens of sprinklers played like miniature
fountains of Versailles, while here and there
electric lights and a smoke-screened moon
picked out crimson- and pink-flowering gum-
trees and beds of blue agapanthus. The
roadway which gives access to the miles of
foreshore of Port Phillip bore for hours un-
ending lines of motor-cars going to and
coming from the beaches. At St. Kilda beach
the merry-go-rounds did a roaring trade, for
they created breezes. The new baths were
crowded, too.
A dance at the Fernery, Frankston, wound
up the Davy Bay regatta. Electrical Com-
mander F. G. Cresswell, hon. sec. of the
Davy Bay Yacht Club, was there witli Mrs.
Cresswell, whose frock was bronze and gold
lace; J. Lambre, hon. treas., and Mrs.
Lambre, Arthur Peck, commodore, and
Major-General H. Grimwade, vice-commodore
of the club, were also in evidence, Mrs. Grim-
wade dancing in a gown of black lace and
cornflower-blue chiffon. The Sam McKays
and Cynthia Brookes and her sister Ilersey
were others who joined in the dance.
At a bridge party at Mrs. Harry Emmer-
ton/s home, Raveloe, South Yarra, the
hostess, in black velvet embossed chiffon, ex-
tended a greeting hand to several of her
own friends as. well as to some of the com-
panions of her grand-daughters, Cynthia and
Mersey Brookes, who were among the play-
ers. Mary Emmerton, niece of the chate-
laine, lent aid in the entertaining of the
guests, her flowered ninon gown being in
pastel tints. Apple-green satin was worn by
Cynthia Brookes, whose younger sister was
in honey-colored lace. Rear-Admiral Hyde
was there with his wife, whose bright blue
draperies were blended with black.
A tea party was given by Mrs. H. G.
Callaway at her home at Queen’s-road in
honor of her daughter Claudina, who is to
wed Lieut. Ross James this week. The
young couple will reside in Brisbane, and
the gathering served as a farewell to the
bride-elect and likewise to one of her atten-
dant maids, Dr. Sylvia Young, who also
leaves shortly to take up duties at the Bris-
bane General Hospital. The hostess worc-
lapis-lazuli blue lace and blending straw mil-
linery, and Miss Callaway was in pink linen
embroidered with green spots and topped
with a green hat. A cream silk suit and a
berry-red hat were chosen by Dr. Young.
Lud Mayor Smith introduced his sister
Mrs. J. Dyer, who is to act as Mayoress for
a few months, to the womenfolk of aider-
men and councillors at a tea-drinking at the
Town H’all on Thursday afternoon. Wearing
green mousseline gown and a velvet hat of
the ’ same shade, and with a background of
floral decorations in pink and wine-color,
Mrs. Dyer asked for the guests’ help during
her short civic reign. Prior to this gathering
the lady attended the community singing at
the Town Hall and put in a plea for good
music. A small girl presented Mrs. Dyer
with a bouquet of crimson roses.
There was a billy-boiling at the Wentworth
at the midweek, when Mrs. H. Leslie Boyce,
who has been visiting relatives here and in
Sydney for some months, said good-bye to
many of her friends on the eve of her return
to England. Her mother, Mrs. E. P. Bevan.
who topped a black gown with a small hat
with encircling ostrich plume, was co-hostess.
Ninon of green tint, with frills of val. lace
dyed to match, was worn by Mrs. Boyce,
who sported brown millinery.
Mrs. Parnell, wife of Prof. T. Parnell, of
Q’land Uni., after spending some weeks in
Melbourne, has returned to the northern
capital. While here she was joined by her
sister, Mrs. Atkins, of Adelaide, who is
mother of Mrs. Leori Gordon, now settled
in Hollywood, where her actor husband is
writing scenarios.
Mrs. H. S. Gullett lias deserted Canberra
for a time, and has retired with her son
and daughter to Frankston for the rest of
the school vacation.
Marjorie Healing is one of the best all-
round sports-girls the M.L.C. has produced.
She was in
the front rank
in swimming
an d tennis,
held her own
at hockey and
golf, and is
still the un-
disputed
State fenc-
ing champion.
At her wed-
ding to Frank
Russell - Smith
at Kew last
week she had
sister Joyce
and Vera Ben-
ton as her
b r i desmaids ;
Rupert
Ruwolt was
groom sman.
Th e hand-
some bride’s
wedding frock was of ivory moire ring velvet,
the bodice with long sleeves and a cowl neck
drapery, the flared skirt touching the in-
steps. With the bridesmaids’ pale-pink georg-
ettes went pale-blue delphiniums and Cecil
Brunner roses. Reception at No. 9.
Mr. and Mrs. S. M. Bruce hope to settle
down again in their home at Frankston.
During their absence in England their sea-
side residence was leased by Mrs. Sam
McKay.
Allan Wilkie and his wife, the willowy
Hunter-Watts, have for the last few months
been putting on excerpts from Shakspeare
in Canada and report success. Their son is
on the staff of a Melbourne paper.
W. J. Schutt, a former Judge of Vic.
Supreme Court, who retired before quali-
fying for a pension and took to globe-trot-
ting, is back on one of liis periodical visits to
Melbourne. After a stay of three or four
months, he will return to the south of
France.
To folk who live on lighthouses about
the Victorian and Tasmanian coasts Christ-
mas is a feast whose date depends upon the
calling-in of the Lady Loch with its six
months’ stock of provisions. During the
week this ship set out with a cargo supple-
mented by Yuletide gifts and cheer for
children and parents. For eight years now
Esmc Allee, of Elsternwick, has interested
herself in these lighthouse-dwellers, and has
•collected toys, dolls, books, sweets and other
things so that they may enjoy Christmas.
Here’s a chance for native-born com-
posers ! F. W. Thring, of Efftee Films,
wants a very short melody to form an accom-
paniment while the E.F. trade-mark, the
native-bear, is being screened. The koala
has an aloof and abstracted air which sets
a nice little puzzle for those who would essay
to express him in music.
Marie Goll leaves next month for San
Francisco, via Tahiti. Later she will go to
England and the Continent.
Artist Marion Jones, of Bendigo, who for
some years has been painting portraits in
London, should by now be on her way to
Australia to visit relatives and friends. Miss
Jones, who was a Gallery student here/ went
abroad on the travelling scholarship.
On a trip to Hongkong is Colonel Harold
Cohen, M.L.C., "'ho is accompanied by his
son Geoffrey and Geoffrey’s lately-acquired
wife, Lorna. daughter of the Arthur D.'Wen-
zells, of Teorak, -----
Dr. Cyril MacGillicuddy’s wife is off to
South Africa by the Ascanius, on a visit to
her parents, Mr. and Mrs. James Mcßride,
of Durban. Her children and Winsome
Thackeray accompany her.
C. W. Wren, of the E., S. and A. Bank,
with his wife and sister, is to sail for Europe
shortly on holiday bent. The bank is among:
the few remaining- in the city which provide
the manager with quarters on the premises.
The most fascinating frocks for summer
wear the Chatterer has seen for many a day
were those exhibited in connection with the
Indian. Head competition. The material
makes ideal hot weather dresses and has a
wide, range of usefulness in the way of home
furnishings. The first prize in the dress
section was £2O, and several entries had all
the class and snappiness of Paris creations.
A white frock was inlet with Richelieu em-
broidery, also white. The judge’s first choice
went to a beautifully cut green sleeveless
model made with a coat effect in front, and
dotted with hand-embroidered black-and-white
spots. Other attractive exhibits were a
white blousette worked with the finest of
drawn thread and an edging of black and
green, and a pale blue pleated frock adorned
with lines of drawn thread and wee pink
roses. This got second prize, third going to
a dress of dark amber shade scattered with
red blossoms between squares of veining and
hemstitching.
This smiling young lady, pictured by Dick-
inson - Moti-
teath, is Laura
B r e n n a n,
daughter of
the Senator
and niece of
Frank a n d
Anna Bren-
n an. She
graduated m
law at Melb.
Uni. last year,
following the
family tradi-
tion, for her
father is a
barrister and
her uncle and
aunt are both
lawyers.
Laura’s sister
Claire holds
the Mus. Bac.
degree of the
Uni.
Admiral Creswell and his lady have said
good-bye to their daughter, Mrs. J. C. L.
Vigne, and her children, who have been
staying with them for some months and who
are now sailing back to Port Elizabeth,
South Africa.
Since their return from Europe, some
weeks before Christmas, Mrs. Byron Moore
and her daughters, Mrs. Ronald Gordon and
Linda Byron Moore, have been quartered
at Menzies’. They have now taken Mrs.
Percy Landale’s flat at Melbourne Mansions.
Passed over at 75. Mrs. G. Turnbull, cf
Horsham, whose memory will always be
associated with a story of heroism. As a
girl of 7 Jane Duff, as she was tli m,
was lost in the bush around Natimuk with
her two brothers aged 9 and 4 years for
nine days. They lived on berries and dew,
and Jane took off her own garments to keep
the baby warm. Mrs. Turnbull leaves two
sons and four daughters. Her elder brother,
Isaac, is still alive to tell the tale of his
childhood’s experience.
In the passing of Mrs. Evelyn Gough at
the home of her daughter, Mrs. Merric
Boyd, Melbourne lost a great worker in the
interests of women and children. Mrs.
Gough helped to bring about many reforms
and she was active in the establishment of
the Epileptic Colony and the Talbot Milk
Institute. For some time she was inter-
national secretary of the N.C.W. and was
a delegate to the conference in Canada in
1919.
Westralia wades in :
The M. G. Lavan couple are honeymooners bound
for the palmy breezes of Ceylon. Until the morn-
ing of the Comorin’s sailing the bride was Mrs.
Shafto.
The mercury shot up over the century for the
Kylie Club’s January afternoon, but the rally was
a good one considering the number of folk who
are chasing the sea breezes at Albany and in the
south-west. Keith Cummings, accompanied by
Evelyn Willis, of the magic touch, gave a bril-
liant sonata. Harold Neate and Lulu Potter,
the latter in lemon-and-blue georgettes, were vocal-
ists, with a pink-clad Flora Bunning as accompanist.
Trixie Shepard, of Adelaide, a maid still in her
early teens, contributed piano solos. Mrs. W. 11.
Vincent, wearing chiffons patterned upon a black
background, had Helen and Lesley as offsiders.
Among officials present were Mrs. Archie Burt,
whose green shantung suited her auburn coloring,
Miss Hamilton in blue and pink, and Ethel Ewins
in blue linen.
The State’s bonniest babies will compete for
championship honors in April, at an entrance fee
of one shilling per dimpled infant. Winners at
the centres scattered through the country districts
will come to Perth to have their kicks and goos
compared for the winning of several money prizes.
After winning the women’s State championship
sprint for the past five years, mermaid Miss M. E.
Williams was defeated by her sister Rita. A junior
swimmer, Miss S. J. Holman, did well in the rough
water, and a few days later finished fifth in the
three-mile swim through Perth, wherein she was
the only girl competitor.
South Australia says:—
Jill, the last of the three pretty daughters of
Mrs. Malcolm and the late Barr Primrose Malcolm,
became Mrs. Lance Mallen on Wednesday evening
at the old Mitcham church of St. Michael’s. There
her parents had been married; furthermore, the
same dressmaker made the bridesmaids’ frocks and
the same friend made the wedding cake as at her
mother’s wedding. The eldest sister, Primrose, mar-
ried a Sydney lawyer last year, and the youngest
sister’s husband is a son of Penfold 1 Hyland. Mr.
and Mrs. Mallen have motored to Sydney for their
honeymoon.
Hugh Wilson, Adelaide manager of the Eastern
Extension Co., has an altar date with Kathleen,
eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Richard Bagot, early
in February.
The engagement is announced of Joan, third
daughter of knight William Goodman, to Arthur
R-ymill, only son of Mr. and Mrs. A. G. Rymill.
Ransom Mortlock returned to Adelaide by the
Manunda this., week from Sydney, where he was
laid up in hospital for three months. He ia
keenly interested in the turf, Ransom’s Gate and
Baccha Sakao being among some of his well-known
racers.
In spite of two heat-waves the Mayoress’s recep-
tion-room at the Town Hall was delightfully cool
on Wednesday afternoon, when a farewell at-home
was given to enable friends to say good-bye to
Commander and Mrs. J. A. Loudoun-Shand, who are
leaving for Melbourne, where the commander has
been appointed district naval officer. The Mayoress
was wearing a navy georgette toilette and a smart
little navy straw hat with plume at the side. Mrs.
Loudoun-Shand wore a beige- and mauve-flowered
chiffon frock and a wide-brimmed beige straw hat,
and carried a bouquet of crimson roses presented to
her by Mrs. Edmund Bowman.
His Ex. and Lady llore-Ruthven are now in
residence at Marble Hill, a change from the cool
sea breezes of Victor Harbor. The Governor’s
house is so far from the beaten track that motors
are the only means of conveyance.
Mrs. George H. Coleman, of Kew, Victoria, accom-
panied by her small son, is visiting her parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Nicholls, of Watson-avenue,
Rose Park.
Miss Muriel Farr, having disposed of her Toby
Kitchen Cafe in Perth, is leaving for England, where
she intends taking up literary work again.
Tassie’s titbits:—
The Ilutchinsons have had news from London of
daughter Margot’s marriage to Dr. Phil Bowden,
the day after the bride’s arrival. The newly-
weds are honeymooning in the Tyrol; they will
return to live in Cambridge, where Dr. Bowden is
a don of Caius College.
Nora, daughter of the late Hon. Edward Mulcahy
and Mrs. Mulcahy, and Leslie McManus, of Sydney,
signed their contract for life-partnership at St.
Mary’s Cathedral, where nuptial mass was sung.
The bride’s mediaeval frock was of ivory .satin with
long tulle veil held to the head with a halo wreath
of orange-blossom. Molly Darcey, Anne Mulcahy,
Phyllis Cox and Eileen Banks ’maided in charming
sprigged organdie frocks, one pink, one blue, two
green. The wedding breakfast was held at Lind-
tield, where Mrs; Richards, the bride’s sister, hos-
tessed.
Noel, the last of the W. G. Baird girls, was
married at St. John’s, Launceston, to Flying-officer
Colin McKenzie Henry. The bride’s gown was re-
modelled from her grandmother’s wedding garment
of chalk-white faille and brocade. Her sister, Mrs.
H. G. Barwick, came from Melbourne, to act as
matron of honor ; the two small ’maids, Dawn Youl and
Pat Field, were in parchment tulle with green sashes
and hair ribbons. After the ceremony there was
an at-home at the Bairds’ house in Pattinson-street,
where Mrs. Baird received in a sapphire georgette
frock.
Marjorie Rooney, 8.A., the new headmistress of
Broadland House School, Launceston, has arrived
in the Speck. Miss Street, 8.A., who was. her
second in command at Claremont Girls’ High School,
W.A., will work under her at Broadland House.
Elinor, daughter of the Nevin Hursts, New Town,
and Professor Pitman, Tas. University, were quietly
married at St. John’s, New Town. Previous to the
wedding, Mrs. Hurst bade friends and relatives in
large numbers to an at-home at her own house,
where the drawing-room was decorated with pink
godetias, carnations and blue delphiniums. Mrs.
Lance Greeves (the married daughter), the bride-to-
be and Miss E. Hurst helped with the teac.ups.
Passed out at her residence, Maequarie-street,
one of the Speck’s oldest and best-known women,
Mrs. Dora Forbes Sorell, aged 93. She was born
at sea, on the voyage out; her father, Dr. John
Coverdale, was commandant and medical officer at
Port Arthur. The deceased lady had long been
associated with philanthropic work and social ser-
vice in Hobart.
Two young Tasmanian penpushers, Douglas Bram-
mall and Alan Cummins, have left the “Mercury”
staff to join their old chief in Brisbane on the
“Telegraph.” Their fellow-journalists gave them a
send-off at Hadley’s.


m
itc
-i
■
jm.
W : f
'‘ml
PP
* ,
■v»
r. s *
Hi
• -i.fi, ■
ARNOTFS FAMOUS SAO BISCUITS
halve the work of preparation and
they never fail to please. They
are delicious buttered, and with
cheese appeal to those who like
savouries; they are equally
delicious with ham or paste, fresh
or stewed fruit.
OTT
D
M OU S
FA
imiir
Soon ~ the calm
of the lagoon
and the placid
stillness of sun-
enchanted South
Sea Isles.
-,sA
' t'H-.
r,.
VHM „■//>*■
891
-■it
E S 0 J 4
em
sSrff
S'AV'f
T.a^v-r-:
r
(
t
RAROTONGA and Papeete, with their languid tropical appeal,
never fail to charm their visitors. Within easy reach of Sydney
by modern trans-Pacific liners, their fresh, unspoiled loveliness makes
them ideally suitable for those seeking to. escape the crowded
thoroughfares,
. HOLIDAY EXCURSIONS AT REDUCED RATES!
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
47 George Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 87671.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: Central' 8393.
UNION
LINE.
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842,
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest ,
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
..Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
Courier”
Published
Every'
Wednesday
The Greatest Joke.
HAROLD MERCER
TELLS THE TALE OF A WORLD'S TRIUMPH AND A
WORLD'S MISFORTUNE.
WHEN Jimmy Bryan tore the tail from
the last, white shirt that still pos-
sessed one and arranged it nattily
in the pocket of his coat as a handkerchief,
he was ready for the street. He had already
inked carefully over those cracks in his well-
polished shoes and cut. the frays from his
cuffs. Unfortunately between him ,and the
street lay a dragon; a landlady, 'fierce with
the injury of ' long unpaid rent. Jimmy
knew that her housewifely activity in the hall
below was only to give her an excuse 5 to be
on the spot wlieii he sallied forth; and 1 lip
wondered who would get tired- first—she of
lying, in wait for him or himself of waiting
for. her to get tired of lying in wait. She
had already, rattled his door twice, . but
by intense silence lie had tried to give her
the impression that he was already gone,
fast asleep or dead. -
Cautiously, once or: twice, he opened the
door an inch or so to reconnoitre, but each
time he closed it again, swiftly. It was after
one of these occasions that the Great Joke
came to him in a flash. Eagerly lie seized
pen and paper and wrote it out; then, leaning
back, he allowed himself to enjoy liis own
work. The brilliancy of it intoxicated him;
careless of landladies, he let out a mighty
guffaw.
That sign of his presence brought his land-
lady upon him with a swoop and a broom in
her hand. Greatly to her surprise the door
opened ; the unexpectedness of it landed her
almost into Jimmy’s arms.
“Now, Mr. Bryan!” she began triumph-
antly, making the “now” a tremendous word.
“It’s seven weeks’ rent you owe this day,
and nothing have I received from you but
the half-crown deposit you paid on the room
the first afternoon. Excuses don’t pay no
butcher’s bills or”— — 5
“Listen to this, Mrs. Smallliash!” com-
manded .Timmy, in an exultation that ignored
the hostility of her tone. “It’s great!”
“What I want to listen to, Mr. Bryan, is
the chink of your money.”
“No, but, listen!” lie appealed. And, im-
pressed by the portentousness of his manner,
she found herself listening whilst he read,
found herself bursting into a laugh .which
landed her in a fit of helplessness on - a
chair.
“Oh, dear me! Oh, dear!” she gasped.
“That is good!”
“It is l” he declared. “It’s the greatest
joke the world has ever been given. The
editor of the ‘Bugle’ will take that like a
shot. I must get into town and sell it
right away.”
Mrs. Smallliash let him go. still laughing
in spasms as she remembered the greatness
of the joke he had read to her. Not for a
moment did she calculate how payment for
a single joke was going to size up against
seven weeks’ rent. She had a guileless faith
in the rewards of literary effort that is fairly
widespread: dimly she recalled having read
magazine stories in ■ which the. starving
genius in .a garret,, having astonishingly, re-
ceived a cheque instead of a rejected nuum-
script, was miraculously transported from
abject poverty to conditions of luxury in
which he was almost insultingly aloof to
newspaper reporters who came to interview
him arid- secure his- photograph ; she , rerneni-
bered, too,'that the literary genius often took
ids good-natured landlady to the l luxurious
surroundings to act as .housekeeper. Instead
of making-the-cold mutton do, she -.round
herself, recklessly; preparing a feast in which
steak-and-kidney pie, was a feature,
With a spring in his gait Jimmy, Bryan
sped along the street and came upon Bel-
lairs arid Tommy Sinclair at the street
corner before they could escape. Quite a lot
of people tried to escape when they saw
Jimmy, coming. If lie did .not want to boiiow
money, lie let them pay - for drinks whilst
1m road them something he had written,
, J.’ uf tins morning there was a joyful exu-
Ration liLoimmys manner that took them by
storm. Before they could raise a defence lie
was. reading to them—-a > common, enoug 1
occurrence; but when lie had finished, they
VG Haiughing—which a _ i\anty. . .I.lns
joke-of his was great—irresistible.: They
laughed uncontrollably. They bought him
drinks, and got him to read his joke to the
bu rinan and others whilst they stood by,
p ro ud to be friends of such a man. Their
friendship even stood the test of a “nip” of
half a crown each; and the hotelkeeper let
Jimmy put up a round of drinks 011 liis own
account.
It took some time for Jimmy to reach the
“Bugle” oflice; he had left a trail of
laughter in a chain of bars by the time the
journey was completed. In the mood he was
in it .was nothing to him that the editor
was .busy and had no time to see him.
“How did you get here?” said the poten-
tate, turning upon him with amazement and
something of a snarl in liis tone,
“I slipped in. I want to give you the
Greatest Joke that ever”
The editor was about to tell him to clear
out. but he suddenly found himself—hard-
ened" as lie was—laughing. Jimmy, ignoring
his wrath, had read the joke—and the wrath
faded. Instead he reached his hand for
the paper, read it himself, and laughed
again,
“I didn’t think you could do anything like
that, Bryan,” lie said candidly. “It’s tip-top.”
“I want some cash.” • -
“All right!” The editor, with a sigh for
the ways of contributors, prepared to mark
the copy,
“Double rates,” said Bryan. “It’s some-
thing-out of the hag, isn’t it?”
“Oli, • very well!” said the editor. The
head printer came in. “Here’s a tiptop joke
Bryan’s just brought in. Wliat is it Bryan?”
Bryan tried to deliver it, extemporaneously,
and was puzzled. It sounded flat. The editor
looked suspiciously at him. “That wasn’t
it,” he said.
“No,” said Jimmy. Something elusive in
his joke, something that was the essence
of its humor, had eluded him. He read
from the script in his hand ; and the head
printer guffawed, joining in the mild laughter
again of the editor. •
The-joke shook the whole “Bugle” office.
It was superb; one of those brilliancies that
are only discovered once in a half-century; it
carried a magic w T hich made everybody con-
tacting with it desire to pass on the laugh
to someone else. The cacliinnations of Carew r ,
faithful custodian of joke-gags, and of some
members of . the staff ~ to , whom' he read the
gem ’of hilarity . attracted the, attention of
others; Smithers, 1 unable to catch quite the
it when he tried to retail it on
the composing floor, dashed down to borrow
the written slip. As it went from hand to
hand it spread a wave of laughter through
the whole building.
The editor, his burden of duty slackened a
little, remembered the joke as he talked
to a friend who called in to see him. He
tried to tell it and failed; so he rang to
Oarew to. bring the gag in.
“Without a, doubt it’s the best joke this
paper has had for years',” lie .said—“and that
means it’s one "oft the best' jokes in--'the
world.” He laughed’again, anticipating the
delight of his visitor!
Cairew rushed through the building in
pursuit of the copy slip; and it was then
that the discovery was made. Someone in
the composing-room had placed the slip upon
a stone under a stick of type, intending
to show it to a temporarily absent colleague
when lie returned ; somebody else had found
that that type wavs wanted and, in a hurry,
had seized it without replacing any other
weight upon it. A draught and an open
Avindow had no doubt accounted for the dis-
appearance of the flimsy sheet of paper.
Whilst a frenzied search was made in the
lane below for the missing paper, Carew
spoilt sheet after sheet of paper in trying
to reconstruct the great joke. Several
attempts seemed to set out its form; and yet,
re-read, they were all tame. Something inde-
finable —it may have been an inflection on
a word, .a misplaced aspirate, some twist
which made the essence of the joke-—could
not be recalled. When the
at the delay, gave another imperative call,
the catastrophe had to be revealed. .
The editor was wrathful and alarmed; but
as no one was able to recall the joke in its
full beauty, there was only one thing, to be
done. Two members of the staff rushed,out
with imperative instructions to find- Jimmy
Bryan and bring him to the office, whatever
the cost in beer. They followed a trail of
liquor which tangled itself strangely, going
to far pubs and then doubling back to near
ones.
Jimmy had. been having the time of his
life. Bellairs, Sinclair and his other friends
of the morning had spread the fame of his
achievement. People who had been prone to
avoid Jimmy were glad to meet him and fete
him. One simple joke had already been
transmitted into gallons of beer and innumer-
able half-crowns, for Jimmy was one who,
in the matter of borrowing “a coupler boh”
missed no opportunity. Tales of the laughter
that marked the trail heartened I 'the nursiilrs
It was after a prolonged search that
Jimmy, between the two of them, fell t ,n the
stairs of the “Bugle” office. They sat him
in a chair, and an attempt was made to bring
Ins mmd out of the clouds of alcohol in which
it floated.
“That joke, Jimmy?” he was asked. “It’s
a pretty good joke.”
Jimmy laughed hilariously.
hi S tey!" h heS; t ed.- ioke thc
“Well, tell it to us.”
"You jus’ wait,” said Jimmy, shaking his
head sagely. “You jus’ wait till it—hie—
comesh shout in tli’ ‘Bugle.’ ”
Jimmy was shaken, ungently but firmly.
Wake up, Jimmy! This is the ‘Bugle’
lour joke has got mislaid, and we- want
you_to repeat it so that we can write it down
again. Come on, Jimmy.”
He stared at his interrogators with glassy
eyes.
“Wilia’ ?” he cried suddenly. “You lorsht
my joke—my beau’ful joke?” He became
tearful. You, lorsht tli’ besht join; ever
made? Oh, you murdcrersh !”
But you can remember it, Jimmy,” he was
reminded. “You’ve been telling it to other
people.”
“I can’sh! I haven’tsli!” Jimmy moaned
I can sh remember th’ dash’ thing. I’ve—
hie—been tellin’ everyshbody t’ wait till
they slice it in the ‘Bugle’!” *
The truth was accepted slowly, unwillingly.
The Greatest Joke was lost for ever because
the slip of paper upon which it had been
given form in the first flash of the brilliant
idea had disappeared.
Jimmy was pushed off the “Bugle” premises
moaning and spluttering fiercely by turns.
He appealed to Heaven for information about
how a man was to pay his landlady when
people lost _ his jokes. He accused the
“Bugle,” which lost a man’s jokes, of being
responsible for all his debts and his misfor-
tunes. In a loud, challenging voice, standing
on the pavement in front, he declared his
intention of starting proceedings for damages.
It took another five shillings to get rid
of him.
Earth.
How prodigal are earth’s benignant Powers
Of. scenes and pageants shifting cease-
lessly:
- The wilderness of a tempestuous sea—
What tesselated pits and tumbling towers!
The calm composure of unfolding flowers;
A nesting bird; a poppy-delving bee;
Thegraceful gestures of a wind-stirred
tree;
The fading files of undulating showers;
The sudden sun burst like a smitten gong:
The silent storm of colors in the west
At ebb of day—oh, thrilled by light and
_ song.
llow joyfully, dear earth, thou journeyest,
A midget in a vast and flaming throng
Of mammoth monarchs marching to their
rest.
N.S.W.
ARTHUR ALRERT BAYLDON.


Does this Weather
make you feel livery, washed cut
and devoid of energy ? If so, try
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
ALTHOUGH the present hot and humid weather, with
cold snaps sandwiched between, may be seasonable, it
is none the less trying. If we took stock of the health
of all the community to-day we would find thousands of
people who are in need of some treatment, the recent weather
conditions having left their mark. You will find with them
generally a strong tendency to avoid any great physical exer-
cise. In fact, the sufferers feeling an almost unconquerable
desire to simply sit down and take things easy, and it is just
possible they may experience dizziness, occasional headaches,
and general lack of interest in things which deeply interested
them at other seasons.
What is needed is some treatment, the more natural the better, to cleanse the
system and assist the organs of digestion, which have become sluggish and
are working unsatisfactorily. This treatment is best administered in the
form of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, which have a world-wide reputation
for stirring the liver and toning up the system generally. They Make
You Feel Brighter .
BBsl
BBS
is
S 3
WVWWWWWWMW*
■*S
Is
&
%
4
23
yj
lUWtWfi
J
numHHHimimimHWWHnt
FIDGETY
CHILDREN
Are often the
Victims of Worms
A child who is affected with Thread
Worms will often appear to the eye to be'
in an indifferent state of health. It be-
comes peevish and irritable in its temper.
Another point to which the attention of
mothers should be specially directed is that
the child is apt to start in its sleep, its
repose being in the way of a disturbed
nature.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones are
suffering intense pain and distress, and are
practically irresponsible for the outbursts
of temper, restlessness and peevishness, and
until some more serious symptoms appear
nothing is done to alleviate the distress.
The symptoms of this disease are somewhat
variable, but generally they are so character-
istic that no mother need have any doubt.
The best proof of worms is worms, and if
the general conduct of the child is such as
to give the slightest suspicion a careful
watch will give ample proof.
Worms, by their movements and the in-
terruption they offer to the contents of the
bowels, generally occasion pain or uneasi-
ness in the abdomen, sometimes spasmodic,
sometimes gnawing and biting, and not in-
frequently of a vague, indescribable charac-
ter, and yet very distressing. Sympathetic
with this is a sensation of itching at the
nostrils, producing a disposition to pick the
nose, which is characteristic of the affection.
The bowels are often disordered, sometimes
relaxed, as in dysentery. The appetite is
exceedingly! variable; in some cases natural,
in others deficient, craving or depraved, one
condition not infrequently alternating with
another. The abdomen is often hard,
swollen and tympanetic, the breath heavy or
foetid, and tongue furred, with disagreeable
taste, and a copious flow of saliva; swelling
of the upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils,
and disposition to grind the teeth during
sleep are other characteristic symptoms.
The effects, however, often extend beyond
the alimentary canal, and various derange-
ments of health are experienced as a conse-
quence, either of the direct irritation of the
worms or of the disordered digestion which
they occasion. Among the most common
of these are nervous affections, such as
fretfulness, irritation of temper, wakeful-
ness or disposition to excessive sleep, dis-
turbed sleep, sudden starting out of sleep as
if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic move-
ments of the eyelids, temporary blindness
and deafness. General convulsions are not
infrequent in children, and symptoms
strongly resembling “Water on the Brain’ 1,
have been ascribed to worms, and have
ceased on their expulsion.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal prepara-
tion compounded on a scientific principle
for the eradication of worms which infest
the intestines. They contain specific proper-
ties which destroy the worms but cause
no injury to the stomach or bowels, and do
not weaken the system. The pellets are
prepared in the form of a confection or
lolly, have no disagreeable taste or smell,
but, on the contrary, inspire children to
take them as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney. Price,
4/- per packet (six packets 23/-), post free.
If writing please mention The Bulletin.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/«
9
a'
, '\ <& J Q
d 1
»0 % <$P ,
\o v j nfiP
,r P fe f V
*jh e <s<s
o**
o°' > * >
v' c ! * IV
s®V.
V-i(V .»*■» .•••
•e^V',
.• * * .* ' ‘
• * •’ ri*' ‘‘® tY.o'*'
.*• ..V*


Full of Ene jrgy and Cheer
The two letters reproduced here are from
people who suffered from nerve-weak-
ness, listlessness, lack of energy, etc. Read
how quickly Sanatogen helped them to
recover strength and vitality.
“It is years since I felt so
well and happy. I was full
of pain and depression
through indigestion and
nervousness, but now,
through Sanatogen, the
world and all that is in
it is brighter and more
cheerful.”
MISS G. H., LONG EATON.
“Before I had finished
my first tin of Sanatogen
I felt great relief and
could eat and sleep better.
I am a new woman and
now, when I feel tired
and a bit “run-down,”
I take Sanatogen and I
am all right.”
MRS. A. H, NETHERFIELD.
Z-'~‘
V
si
WM
If you want to feel stronger, fresher,
healthier —if you want to get rid of nerve
weakness, listlessness, digestive troubles,
then start a course of Sanatogen to-day.
Sanatogen will refresh, and revivify your
whole system in a few weeks, because it
contains exactly the right proportion of
those elements glycero-phosphate and
albumin—that build “Health” into the
nerves, muscles and blood.
Give this famous nerve - strengthening
food a trial. A tin of Sanatogen now is
an investment in Good Health.
Feel fit and fresh by taking
SANATOCEN
THE TRUE TONIC-FOOD
* ,
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
At all Chemists .
