

XfMJKMBEH -HILL
PROPRI ETArY ri’
"mmm MineO\vmers Ir°m£SteelMAstiss
m
S*«L‘£i .*
m
run
I
SI!!
:
S®ssssssa4*-»
Mtt
13
■
vV
\
»?fi
wmm
I
m
-•. • 1W
Bloonti
"g
Mill.
? Newcasne
mm
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE.
422 Little Collins Street.
Telegrams and Cables: “Hematite,” Melbourne.
Branches: SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LONDON.
WORKS:
HILL,
IRON KNOB, S.A.
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
DEVONPORT, TAS.
Colliery Proprietors
Manufacturers of
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
BRIDGE and SLEEPER PLATES
PLATES
BEAMS—CHANNELS
CLUTCH BARS
ANGLES—TEES
LOCKING BARS
JOINT RING BARS
SQUARES—ROUNDS
FLATS—OCTAGONS
ALLOY STEEL
PIG IRON—INGOTS
BLOOMS—BILLETS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL—TAR—TOLUOL
CRUSHED SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
SUBLIMED NAPHTHALINE
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA
FOUNDRY COKE
B.H.P. BLOWFLY OIL
COAL
HOUSEHOLD COAL
WIRE PRODUCTS
Manufactured at the Works of
RYLANDS BROS. (Aust.) LTD.
NEWCASTLE.
FROM B.H.P. STEEL.
Steel Wire.—All classes and
grades for manufacturing
purposes, including Galvan-
ised, Bright and Coppered,
Spring, Nail, Welding, etc., “Waratah” Brand
Black and Galvanised Fencing
Wires . “Waratah” Brand
(Waratah Tyeasy 12501 b. 8.5.)
Wire Netting.—Rabbit and
Assorted “Waratah” Brand
Hinged Joint Fence “Waratah” Brand
Motor By-Passes . “Waratah” Brand
Barbed Wires.—“lowa” or
“Waukegan” Pattern ..... “Waratah” Brand
Nails “Waratah” Brand
Clothes and Guy Lines “Waratah” Brand
Steel Fencing Posts.—“ Star” Pattern
B.H.P “Waratah” Brand
Flexo Droppers “Waratah” Brand
For all classes of Wire Products specify
“Waratah” Brand.
MANUFACTURED AT THE
NEWCASTLE STEELWORKS
The Bulletin
d
Vol. 53.—N0. 2753.
Wednesday, November 16, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'Y’HE 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
• SEND THIS COUPON - _
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ‘
My Name •
My Address
S.B. 232
J-YSAGH'p'
o
3
R
MJSTRAkIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
ssr.
t ass i
Cc
"host that morning' Headache
Now I stick to Dickens”
The genuine Old Scotch.
Bottled in Bond.
cotell WJiiskt)
O-71 <V O&tturcrtytL , . ( zf-y<t/i-uyy., o-tz- dJa-t.
\p
y
v
Hot water and Cuticura Soap
remove the dust and grime and
thoroughly cleanse your face.
If there is any irritation, rough-
ness or pimples the Ointment
will quickly heal. Cuticura
Talcum is ideal after bathing
and shaving.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S.W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM 19 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854•
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
The service "The Age" renders is
essentially practical.
Being a publication of the highest
prestige, it enjoys close and continu-
ous contact with adult minds through-
out Victoria, thus assisting the
conduct of business by linking up
with the everyday domestic needs of
its readers.
"THE AGE"
circulates in over 115,000 homes
daily, and publishes 1,000,000 adver-
tisements annually.
KEEP THIS IN MIND
when planning future allocations.
Rates on application to the leading service
agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
iiidiii)
IBuirieaVl/ >cir
|(DS*
mtw
Has a Greater
Circulation and a
Greater Number of
Home Deliveries
Than Any Queensland Daily
Newspaper.
The
Sunday Mail
Brisbane
This great newspaper goes into the homes of
the people of Brisbane when they have leisure
to read. It is a journal of character and
distinction and presents features that appeal
to every member of every household. If you
want to fully cover the Brisbane market at
small cost, this is your paper.
Rates and other particulars from
ROBT. JACKSON.
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
The Red Page
HIS
BOKS
The Amateur Spirit
Here is another batch of sporting books.
They are all from London publishers, and
the writers assume that the sports discussed
will be engaged in under English conditions.
The rowing takes place on the Cam, the
yachting round the south coast of England,
and so on. However, the basic principles of
«arsmanship are the same all the world
over, and boat-sailing in Australian harbors
and up and down the Australian coast
doesn’t differ materially from boat-sailing
anywhere else. Almost the only sport in
which we have diverged to any extent from
the English model is hunting; a matter
chiefly of the country hunted over. Some
of the differences between our methods of
schooling jumpers—and particularly child-
ren’s jumpers—and the methods employed
in England, and between a run with an
English and, say, a Victorian pack, are indi-
cated in one of these books. But, broadly
speaking, every word of advice given in
them will be found equally helpful to Aus-
tralian and British sporting enthusiasts;' and
they all have • the peculiar charm of most
London-published books of their kind. The
Americans tend to write of sport as a busi-
ness; the French, Germans and, above all,
the Russians seem more interested in it as
a branch of nature study; the British alone
write of games and pastimes as they engage
in them—more seriously than most con-
tinentals, more casually than most Ameri-
cans. All these productions—even the two
which bear the utilitarian sub-titles “How
to Succeed”—reflect the attitude towards
sports of a nation which has been riding,
shooting and playing games for fun for a
thousand years. They are by amateurs for
amateurs.
Rowing, Yachting, Hunting
The first three are published by Country
Life: Coach and Eight at Bs. 6d., and the
two others at 10s. 6d. each. Roy Meldrum,
who has coached hundreds of Cantabs, has
got Frank W. Law, who is an F.R.C.S. as
well as an old rowing “blue,” to write a
foreword for Coach and Eight, the point
being that in this instructive book the
oarsman is considered anatomically. Every
stage of a rowing man’s education, from the
early days in a pair-oar “tub” to the final
tuning up in the week before a race, is
dealt with. The coach’s first job is to make
watermen of the crew.
Until a crew can sit a boat at a dead slow
stroke they will never get the best out of
her. Until they can enjoy sitting her at a
dead slow stroke, they will never get the
best out of her. Unless she runs on an
even keel, she will defy all efforts to get
pace out of her.
In reference to poise, he has much to say
about, “Fairbairnism” (incidentally, he con-
siders that “the increase of intelligence in
coaching” is due to the famous Victorian),
but he isn’t prejudiced for or against any
one school. The book has dozens of ex-
planatory photographs and diagrams.
John Scott Hughes’s Little Ships, which
has some beautiful reproductions of sketches
by Frank Mason, R. 1., is as essentially a
work for specialists as the other—for those
“whose blood is salted, who cannot tread any
deck without a strange excitement, must
work a ship and handle gear before they
taste the sea.” The author’s first boat was a
four-tonner, and on the strength of owning
her he sat for his Master’s certificate and
passed. But the book isn’t confined to his
adventures in this boat or any other. It
consists of a collection of random sketches
about the sea, mostly from the small-boat
owner’s viewpoint, in the course of which such
various subjects are touched on as Cowes
Week, sea-weariness and sea nerves, and the
difficulty of finding suitable cruising com-
panions. Being the kind of man he is he
scorns auxiliary engines. How can the
art of sailing be learned when all a man
has to do to get himself out of a difficulty
is to touch a self-starter? He pictures a
true sailor in the packed Cowes roadstead:
The conning and management of a vessel
under sail is a fine, brave thing, tightening
the muscles, bracing the nerves, clearing the
eye, expanding the chest!... . Observe him
[the motor-less amateur]' getting under way,
to float noiselessly out through the busy
anchorage, with a nonchalance —three-parts
feigned!—-amidst the critical regard of an
audience covertly watching from every other
vessel in the harbor. Bon voyage, sailor-
man !
Older Mousie, by Golden Gorse, is the
story of a child’s pony told by the pony
himself. The author has skilfully avoided
the whimsical sentimentality which is. a
painful feature of so many animal autobio-
graphies, and the!
plates by Lionel
Edwards are very
fine. Mousie is one
of those ponies
that are to be seen
in hundreds in the
west of England. They are about 14.1,
have big round bands, clean legs, sound
constitutions—they spend most of their lives
at grass even when owned by the rich—-and
in Devonshire parlance they are “wise.”
Some town-bred children arrive in the
neighborhood with corn-fed ponies which,
in addition to not knowing the country, are
above themselves and can’t be made to
jump. Mousie and his humble companions
teach them manners, and other things. A
hint of tragedy comes towards the end.
Mousie is picked up by some gipsies, and
the children are overwhelmed with grief.
But after many tribulations, which include
having his coat clipped for the first time in
his life, and his tail cut off at the dock, he
escapes and reaches his home again. A
delightful yarn which should interest adult
horse-lovers just as much as the youngsters
for whom it is primarily designed.
Chiefly for Juveniles
From Angus and Robertson come Ath-
letics and Swimming at 6d. each. Evans
Bros., of London, published the pamphlets
for the British National Union of Teachers.
Lieut.-Colonel Duckett, of the School
Athletics Association, is responsible for
the first. Re begins by stressing the value
of style—the finished technique which
enables the athlete to get the maximum
in the way of results with the minimum of
effort. Hints on training for and starting
and finishing in the sprints, half-mile and
mile, on approaching, taking off and landing
in the jumps, and on negotiating hurdles,
the most skill-demanding exercise of them
all, are given; and there is a useful chapter
on food and clothing. The writer has
athletes of school age in his mind all
through, and so has Sid G. Hedges in
Swimming. Much of the information given
in Swimming will have the familiarity of an
oft-told tale to the 50 per cent, of young
Australians whose homes are handy to surf-
ing beaches or harbor baths. Breast swim-
ming, the crawl stroke, the different dives
and what Mr. Hedges calls Rwimming-pool
Frolics are all practised habitually by most
of our boys and girls. Similarly, they
could learn more about race swimming in
an afternoon spent at a baths when one or
two local champions were competing than
they could by assimilating all the advice
offered in this little publication. Still, it is
valuable in its way. As the author re-
marks, “No one ever learns all there is to
know about swimming,” so every fresh con-
tribution to the lore of the subject is
acceptable.
RED PAGE.
Author and. Bookseller
Some months back a book of mine was
published in England. The publisher’s
price was Bs. 6d. It was widely reviewed.
Some of the reviews were good; others were
glittering. As it was essentially an Aus-
tralian book the publishers, naturally,
looked for sales here. The sales were prac-
tically nil. Then a friend wrote to me
stating, and in a mild manner complaining,
that booksellers were retailing my book
at 155., in spite of the publishers listing
it at Bs. 6d.
I wrote to the publishers pointing out
that if a hundred copies were sold in this
country at 155., it would take £75. As that
was about all the loose silver in the country
it would be no use sending out any more
until things recovered a bit. The pub-
lishers replied that they had no control
over the prices charged by retajlers, that
they regarded 15s. a copy as murder, and
that they could do nothing.
Mail after mail came to me with letters
from people who wished to buy my book,
who complained that booksellers hadn’t
stocked it, and, in odd cases, that the price
was out of all reason. I wrote to a couple
of the bigger booksellers complaining about
the price. One replied, using weird words
and making mouthfuls of exchange, primage
and sundry other things; the other, in
effect, advised me to mind my own busi-
ness.
I followed that piece of advice and wrote
to the publishers again. I have their reply
by me. They state that they supply Aus-
tralian booksellers at half the published
price “We do not quite know how
much per copy duty and transport charges
amount to, but there seems ample margin
between our charge of 4s. 3d. and the 15s. at
which thejr sell.”
It seems to me, too, that primage, ex-
change, transport and other charges would
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —Our Assurance of Accuracy .
Only 5* Weeks to Christmas!
"THE SENIOR STORE
At Anthony Horderns’
you can buy more
5 Ci
fjJhj
■Arts
because of their low prices!
Build the Bridge
Harbor Bridge Blocks. Build
the Harbor Bridge! Interest-
ing and instructive. Price,-4/6
Bushie Tent, 4ft. x sft., complete with
poles, etc. Colored design on each side
of roof. Price J^/6
Price, without poles 11/6
(Carriage paid on Tent, but not on
Poles.)
To try
your
patience.
Jig-saw Puzzles, Harbor Bridge, and
many other beautiful designs. Con-
taining pieces
35 50 75 100 150 200 250 300
1/- 1/62/3 3/3 4/9 6/6 7/6 11/6
Magic Designer
The “Designescope.” Place
a pinch of confetti or
scraps of colored material,
flower petals, etc., and turn
base slowly round —then
view the marvellous color-
ful designs produced.
Trice, eacli 2/6
Winged Box Kite
The Winged Box Kite.
Strongly made of best
materials.
Prices, each . . 6/9, 10/6
Micky Mouse Acro-
bat, easily worked,
realistic movements;
1 sin. high.
Price a . .
1/9
/ffisSfity
f'.V^
SC
h*At
l#\v
Teddy Bears
Soft Cuddly Native
Bears, most life-like.
Prices—
7/6, 13/6, 17/6
Strong Paper Kites,
wood frame, t'he
“Hinkler.” Prices,
each 3d., 6d.
The “Sky Raider.”
Price, each . . . 6d.
Strong Kite Cord.
Price, per reel, 6d.
A small model of the A-H.S.L.,
length, 14in.; wing span, 1 6in.
Guaranteed to fly.
Price, each 5/9
The Hawk Junior, length, 1 sin.;
wing span, 14in. Price, ea., 4/6
sa
Stockings from
6d. each
Xmas Stockings, filled
with toys. Each, 6d.,
1/-, 1/6, 2/-, 2/6, 3/-,
3/6, 5/-
Strong Box Kite
Box' Kites, well made, cov-
ered bright cotton material.
Prices, each .... 2/6, 3/«
Strong Box Kite
Box' Kites, well made, cov-
ered bright cotton material.
Prices, each .... 2/6, 3/«
The Gyroscopic Top,
will spin in any posi-
tion. A most inter-
esting and scientific
toy. Price . . 2/9
{Toys— Second Floor. We do not pay freight.)
WINKIE TOYS
So amusing, yet so cheap!
Whose Zoo's This?
sdf
“Aussie” Kangaroo Winkie
Toy. Length, 22in.; height,
9in. Price 9/-
“Jumbo” Winkie Toy.
Length, 14in.; height,
1 I in. Price ...» H/9
“Engine and Tender
Winkie Toy. Length,
1 1 in. Price .... 2/6
This is the queer Waggle Winkie
Toy. Length, 23in. Price . . 5/9
Winkie Toys are hygienic and dur-
able. Bright attractive colors, wash-
able and unbreakable.
Look out! This is the “Golly
Winkie Toy. Length, 16in.
Price • • S/-
“P us s” Winkie Toy.
Length, 22in. Price, 6/6
‘Emu ' Winkie Toy. Length,
1 3in.; height, Min. Price, 6/-
“Racer” Winkie Pull-along
Toy. Length, 7in. Price, 1/-
Length, 9in. Price .... 1/6
‘‘Bell e” Winkie.
Length, 6Jin.
Price 2/11
“T o m Winkie.
Length, 6in.
Price .... 2/11
“Siren” Winkie.
Length,
Price 2/11
sdf
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
SYDNEY
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.


YOU (mi£t tfUa- ENGLISH Ccvz /
mm.
m
M
.
mm
n
m
i ss :
.. !
■mia
S%9:?Wi5
i
«gig
Sx ■
mm
sis:;;;
ENGLAND HAS ANSWERED
THE DEMANDS OF
AUSTRALIAN MOTORISTS !
“Should be specially powered for
Australian conditions,” you said ...
Vauxhall’s six-cylinder engine is
rated at 26 h.p. and develops 61.
Drive this Vauxhall and you will
understand why it’s called “the car
with the silky performance.”
“and easy to handle with an effort-
less gear change
Here’s “finger-tip” steering—-and
Synchro-Mesh Transmission with a
truly Silent-Second gear. And an
adjustable driving position with
positive controls within easy reach.
m
/
H
S
§B3
KMK»
Australian
coachwork that
equals the
world’s hest.
“Must be a car that looks smartly modern
and dignified . . . with a sturdy body and
real riding comfort at all times.”
Vauxhall gives refined English beauty.
Bodies by Holden. Semi-elliptic springs—
overslung front —underslung rear. Love-
joy hydraulic shock absorbers. Interiors
delightfully snug and well finished.
Priced from £315, this famous 1933
Vauxhall is the outstanding motor
car value
The 1933 Vauxhall can be rightfully claimed as the only
low-priced English car specifically built to meet the de-
mands of Australia’s motoring conditions.
Silent Synchro-mesh is an outstanding feature. With it,
gear changing is reduced to a mere flick of the lever. It is
an added safety factor, too. And its truly Silent-Second
gear adds an entirely new and thrilling sensation to driving!
This 1933 Vauxhall proves that England has more than
answered the demands of Australian motorists. It has
created new standards of English car performance and
values in Australia.
Be fair to yourself —know before you buy! The only way
for you to appreciate what this car offers is to test it your-
self. Your dealer will give you a trial run without the
slightest obligation. General Motors-Holden’s Limited-
Vauxhall
Consult your
LOCAL AUTHORISED
VAUXHALL DEALER
0


“Just Listen to that Glorious TONE! 7 /
Household
Duties need
never be
irksome if
you have a
Healing
Radio.
Women who find
the day long and
wearisome find a
new joy in their
daily tasks when
they have a Healing
Radio in the home.
This instrument
adds zest to work
which might other-
wise seem arduous.
You will go happily
about your home
as the glorious
notes flow evenly
from this golden-
throated receiver.
<r
m
\ ' % fell M
? 14!M "P
** *
i , ' T** E '' : . !\.."' "'l■' £ V, ■ MHIIII Bk V
' ;*&
■
p|
■- ; :
O-x w&
-
m
Mi
Ljolden
' .'.S'
m
■
WHY NOT INVITE HEALING RADIO
TO YOUR HOME FOR A FEW DAYS?
Healings are so confident that you will enjoy
the flawless entertainment that Golden Voiced
Radio will bring to your home that they invite
you to have Healing Radio as your guest for a
few days.
’Phone or write to one of the addresses below,
and we will put you in touch with your nearest
Healing radio dealer.
A. G. HEALING, LTD.,
SYDNEY:
164-170 '
Goulburn St.
MELBOURNE
167-173
Franklin St.
ADELAIDE:
Cnr. Pivie and
Pulteney Sts.
Cut out this Advertisement and take it to your nearest Healing Dealer for a Free Home Demonstration
not equal 50 per cent, of the whole—which
in this case is 4s. 3d. Allowing 50 per cent,
that makes the landed cost of the book 6s.
4d. To me there seems a margin of profit
in selling a book at the publisher’s price
of Bs. 6d. when it cost only 6s. 4d. landed.
I am not trying to get any cheap adver-
tising for my book, so, for one of the very
few times in my writing life, I use a pen-
name. Further Ido not mention the name
of the book or hint at its title. That doesn’t
mean I am afraid of reprisals by booksellers.
They have killed my book as dead as they
can, and are not in a position to do me
further harm. Should they wish it lam
prepared to give my name, my address,
the title of the book and any other par-
ticulars asked for. Finally, and in con-
clusion, they can also take the curse I
spit at them.
M.A.B.
(The writer has supplied his name and
that of the book.—R.P.)
Children's Books
All these books are by Australians, who,
since the appearance of Mervyn Skipper’s
“The Meeting Pool,” have gained a high
reputation overseas as caterers for the young
and imaginative. The best of them—the
funniest, the most dramatic and most
thought-provoking—is Geraldine Elliot’s
New Tales for Old (Elkin Matthews; 3s.
6d.). It gains greatly in charm and humor
from the illustrations by R. W. Coulter,
whose work helped to make “The Meeting
Pool” a best-seller. The writer liked the
legend of “The Kindly Ant-Bear” best. It
tells how in the long ago the elephant—a
sinister and scheming character who, at that
time, had small tusks —borrowed the then
splendid tusks of the wart-hog for a few
days, handing over his own in return, and
basely refused to make restitution. The
wart-hog, being virtually tuskless, was thus
unable to dig for a living, and would have
starved but for the ant-bear, who offered
him a home in a spare burrow and prophe-
sied: “The elephant shall be punished for
this. He shall never have a real home, and
he shall be hunted by man for all time for
the sake of his ivory tusks.” The conduct
of the elephant was equally dastardly in
respect of the rock-rabbit. Bowled out as
a pilferer of the rabbit’s food, the elephant
retired in confusion—“and from that day to
this no rock-rabbit has had anything to do
with an elephant.” As in “The Meeting
Pool,” the characters of the different animals
arp sustained with remarkable consistency.
The Fairies’ Tree, by Ola Cohn and
Norma Davies (The Book Nook, Geelong;
3s. 6d), is illustrated and decorated by Mar-
jorie Wood. It is a bush fantasy with a
bunyip as chief villain. In point of fact,
there is no need for any Australian child to
worry about the bunyip; his powers as a
worker of evil were limited long ago by the
Fairy Stoutheart. He was sniffing after this
fairy when he suddenly felt an agonising
sting, and retired howling to his lair.
The sting was none other than the point of Stout-
heart’s wand steeped with a Magic Spell, to condemn
him to the Cave-of-no-escape. There he lives, and
has to live for many ages to come. He thunders
round his cave in endless prowls, sniffing, snorting
and growling as he goes, blowing dirt and dust in
all directions, causing folks to hurry to their homes,
thinking that duststorms must be brewing near.
That is the way he lives from day to day, making
things unpleasant and unsafe for anyone who ventures
near his home.
Emus, kangaroos, wombats and other
indigenous creatures figure prominently in
this charming fairy-story.
Black Tuppeny, by Margaret Brown
(Heinemann; 2s. 6d.), is designed for the
very young. Its chief appeal lies in the
amusing drawings in color by Sheila Haw-
kins of the little nigger girl who journeyed
to London, got past the sentries at Bucking-
ham Palace, saw the King, and next found
herself lifted up by the back of her bright
red frock and deposited outside. The writer
and artist are Melbourne girls who have
settled in London.
D.
Shakspeare’s Tongue
There is only one place, so far as I know,
where the language of Shakspeare may still
be heard—almost in its original purity.
That is among the mountain people of
Appalachia, in the U.S.A. The Appalachian
chain extends along the Atlantic coast from
the Gulf of St. Lawrence to the low-lying
lands on the Gulf of Mexico, and is cut
almost in half by the Potomac and Monon-
gahela rivers. The southern half of this
mountainous country is where the folk to
whom I refer live. They are variously
called “Southern Highlanders,” “Southern
mountaineers” or “Appalachian mountain-
eers”—but usually refer to themselves as
“mountain people.”
In the mountains of Appalachia one’s
ears are not assailed by slang, though one
naturally finds in these regions language in
all stages of development. But the moun-
tain folk, generally, have clung to Shak-
spearean forms—simply because, as their
surroundings and their habits of thought
are largely the same as they were in Shak-
speare s day, they have not become
acquainted with the newer vocabularies.
These people are unaware of the mongrel
jargon of which the English language is
mostly composed to-day, and though theirs
is a development from Elizabethan English,
it has preserved enough of the original
phraseology to give their speech a quaint
and delightful flavor.
They favor strong preterites (viz., clum
for climbed, drug for dragged, wropt for
wrapped)—for which they have authority,
not only from Chaucer and Spenser and
the courtly poet Lovelace, but also from
Shakspeare and the King James Bible.
They say fur in company with Sir Philip
Sidney and furder with Bacon. From
Chaucer they also derive their authority for
adding es to form plurals (especially in
words ending in st ), as postes, beastes,
nestes, ghostes. And when they call a cow
contrarious they have authority from
Milton. Afeard they prefer to afraid (in
common with Lady Macbeth). With Shak-
speare also they call a salad a sallet,
and an excited state franzy.
Caliban’s “pied ninny” and Milton’s
“meadows trim with daisies pied” are re-
called when we hear a mountain lad praise
his “pieded cow.” And when he sees a
frisky calf he will exclaim; “Hit’s an antic
calf,” all unknowing that Hamlet put “an
antic disposition on.” The mountain mother
refers to “Sally’s sleight at butter-making”
(cf. Chaucer and Spenser), and when young
folk, in love, make plans they are said to
be talking (a usage employed by Regan
in “King Lear”).
They use “begone” in reference only to
a dog—in contempt; they speak of “a heap
of people,” and use “allow” for assume.
They say “yit” (to rhyme with wit) just as
Spenser used it—as also “mought” for
might. A mother will ask her daughter
to “swinge this chicken” (cf. Spenser—
“ The scorching flame sore swinged all his
face”), and when a father complains that
the teacher “spoke mighty short” to the
child he does not know he is quoting from
“As You Like It.”
What are commonly dubbed awkward and
slovenly slips, such as seek, sence, agin,
Scriptur, ventur, natur, yit, yander, are
all heard in mountain speech. And it is
evident from the writings of Nash, Beau-
mont and other Elizabethans that all these
were good usage at that time.
Besides these and a host of other identi-
fiable Elizabethan words there are also in
use amongst the mountain folk quaint turns
of speech that hark back to a world in
which both dignity and decorum were trea-
sured as moral virtues. For instance: —
“Yes, I live here, but I don’t belong here. I’m
just a hireling.” ~
“The children love to prank with the dog.
“Hit’s lasty water. Stock can drink there all
summer”....
“The tree’s broke down and gone to nought ....
For the pronoun “it,” the Chaucerian “hit”
is still commonly used —but an indefinable
instinct for euphony governs its selection,
and “it” is also heard.
GERALD DILLON.
A Satchel of Books
Rope to Spare, by Philip Macdonald
(Crime Club; 7s. 6d.), does not represent
the best this accomplished writer of thrillers
can do. The thrills are overdone —the terri-
fied yokel, the mill with its hooting owl and
mutilated bird, the house of strange inmates,
the toppling corpse are too obviously designed
to make the flesh creep. Still the story
moves fast, and Colonel Anthony Gethryn
gets in a lot of good and daring work, as
usual.
Foreign Bodies, by N. Gubsky (Elkin
Mathews; 7s. 6d. net). This Russian, who
writes in English' with more ease than many
Englishmen, already lias two fine books to
his credit —“The Gladiator” and “The
Greatest of These,” previously reviewed on
this page. The new book is an unpreten-
tious chronicle of Russians connected with
the Czarist Embassy in London. The Revo-
lution leaves them in a sort of national
vacuum and Gubsky quietly analyses their
reactions. A mother of five, the wife of a
nobleman, is the most adaptable. She func-
tions within the boundaries of domesticity.
Motherhood is not am escape from life, but
its fulfilment and the politics of the male
members of her household are as relevant
as so many street noises. The humor and
futility of consular life and personal tragedy
and disappointment weave in and out of
many lives during the dreary war years.
The reader is left with the impression of
having observed these people. along with
Gubsky.
Golden Horn, by F. Yeats-Brown (Gol-
lancz; Robertson and Mullens; Bs. 6d. net).
In this work the author of “Bengal Lancer”
appears to have been bucked off his Pegasus
and to be engaged in a desperate attempt to
catch up with the animal. The most inter-
esting part of the book is the prologue, in
which pre-war Turkish history is depicted
in the mood of a romantic novelist, but with
flashes of Yeats-Brown’s personal insight.
Abdul Hamid is represented in his seraglio,
alternately struggling with harem intrigues
and with the political conspiracies of the
Committee of Union and Progress. He is
portrayed as an intelligent despot who fully
understood that Turkey would be cut up like
a melon by the benevolent Western Powers
as soon as it lost its military prowess. Yeats-
Brown likes the Turks, despite the torments
he suffered for three years in their prisons.
The remainder of the book is concerned with
his imprisonment and attempted escapes. The
section 4hat might be of most interest to
Australians concerns his aeroplane descent
outside Bagdad and his capture, but the
name and nationality of his pilot are not
mentioned. The part of Col. Tom White,
M.H.R., in that affair was, according to
Yeats-Brown, that of a sort of aerial chauf-
feur. For a British regular officer, Yeats-
Brown is an extraordinary mixture of mystic
and realist. One moment he is describing his
actual experiences with uncommon brilliance.
The next he is practising the “headstand,”
the bhastrika breath and the writing mudra
in order to become a yogi and enter the
Universal Cosmic Consciousness. He re-
marks with regret that he never became a
completely successful yogi, despite frequent
fasts and washings out of the “lower colon
with two quarts of tepid water.’!
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted ;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Los J.: We thought we were getting on;
but
Faith in the obstinate millennium
Should shake us as though by storm,
Help us take hold of the compendium
That precedes the fullest dawn
beat u 5.... Enidde E.: Such exercises won’t hurt you.
But you are a long way from print... .L.J.R.: “The
Charm” works no spell... .Hazel D.: Lazy metre....
Mary H.: “Daybreak Inspirations” makes us think
how wise we are to stay late in bed R.0.H.:
Dropped into the basket with an amen.... Jean I.:
Not as spontaneous as usual... .R.R.R.: Well, any-
way, a lively lie is more entertaining than a dull
truth... .E.M.E.: Keen thought, but the clothing of
it is shoddy... .E.C. A.: Good as far as it goes; but
it leaves a sense of anti-climax. .. .N. 8.: Yes; but
remember that faint heart still gets the fair lady’s
raspberry E.K.G.: Very good for first efforts. But
shy off those worn themes.... Dorothy O.: Try it on
some children’s page; there is merit in it. ...1.F.:
Weak little water-c010r.... J.A.S.: Neat, but so small!
Serraf: It has no sap in it... .Pen-itch: If
you’ve got any sort of a job at all, stick to it.
Even the experienced freelance doesn’t get much
cheese with his beer these days...-. D.L.M.M.: Better
for magazine use; some of them just lap up classical
allusions. .. .Anne F.: Quite hopeless; only the
last verse is passable... .S.F.K.: Expect somebody
else got in first; supply far greater than the space.
. ...J.W.H.: Worth encouragement. But write what
you feel, not what you’ve read... .Jocelyn C.: That
sort of thing ought to sing. Your false rhymes
offend the ear. .. .Ethel M.: Found it rather artificial.
....Lind P. A.: A faint emotion. But not badly
done.... Hesperian: Passed you on to a Royal Com-
mission, which reports: “This writer has imagination
and ideas, but needs to cultivate an ear for the
music of words”.... Don E.: Hardly worth writing
about—that days leave memories behind.... F.J.8.:
Too trivial. .. .A.K.R.: It’s a fine subject, and
you’ve made very poor use of it.... Andrew Mac:
Hopeless at that length. .. .J.D.C.: Desire, as so
often, outruns performance. .. .R.L.:
’Twas on a winter’s morning; the air was cold and
clear ;
Two travellers trudged their weary way and it was
very drear.
And drearier still the prospect of having to trudge
with them over a 70-line track. .. .S.E.A.: The dead
limit in mushiness... .M. 8.: No meat on it....
Good Night: Same to you, although we get a whole
lot of less sprightly rhymes... .T.J.H.: Lamentable
as the subject. .. .E.G.M.S.: Your toast is tough as
leather... .G.L.: It doesn’t make a readable poem.
... . Aitchsee: “It’s a Cow” seems an admirable
description of your offering. .. .Jennifer: Trivial....
W.8.P.: Too infernally longwinded... .A.S.: Don't
feel much interest in your past loves, not even the
girl who threw you over because you wore such
sombre socks... .D.McL.: Been versifying for years
on a wide range of subjects, have you? Judging
from the sample you might as profitably have been
ploughing sand... .T.W.: Too goody-goody. .. .Te
Momi: You’ll have to improve a lot on that before
you step into these columns... .B.B.: A bit too
close to the knuckle. . . .Edin: “Bust” ends pleasantly,
but the working up to the climax is p00r....
Deekay: Good idea; it’s only the handling 1 that's
faulty.... Bellerive: Another little bit of natural
history:—•
2 NOTORIOUS GORILLAS.
The vegetarian gorillas
Of the Borneo clime
In the dense forests thrive
And live a long time.
Ferocious and powerful,
Speedily active and free,
They leapeth like squirrels
From tree to tree.
Repulsive and crafty,
With long brownish hair,
’Tis woe to the beast
Who’d invade their lair.
. ...E.H.M.: Man with earache too colorless a char-
acter. .. .J.M.: Uninteresting... .G.H.A.: “Muddling
Through’’ describes it....5.M.: Rather confusing in
its present form. .. . A.P.: Ending is ridiculous....
A.K.: Not taking “A Hair of the Dog”... .G.E.M.
and V.K.: It’s been done over and over again....
A.H.T.: Weak. M.N.: “It Pays to Advertise” —
yes, but not your literary shortcomings... .J.8.W.:
A heavy slab of words... .R.C.W.: Unbelievable
stuff.... H.P.: Thank Heaven there wasn’t much of
it!....N.A.: Unmarketable trifles... .G.S.: Hasn’t a
hope... .N.G.: Too long and rambling... .H.C.T.:
Potted the philanthropist... .E.A.S.: Prefer Aus-
tralian settings... .E.E.: Why are so many people
trying to describe the breaking of a drought?....
H.W.S.: Off our beat... .R.D.8.: Are they still being
taken in with that old trick?... .F.S.: Labored
humor... .N.H.: Admire the way you authors sum-
mon schools of sharks to devour your unwanted
characters... .S.G.P.: Illogical. .. .P.C.: There’s an
Abo. par. in it... .V.K.: Conventional. . . .A.D.: Some
promise... .X.X.X.: It’s scarcely a yarn... .N.E.W.:
Helped to swell the reject pile. .. .F.A.C.: Handing
it back to the tender mercies of the G.P.O
G.R.E. and A.W.S.: Roughly told E.A.F., P.J.I.
and S.W.P.: Hopeless.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.M.L.: Pictorial attack on drink ought to suit
the parish magazine... .V.W.: Learn how to grasp a
pen and brush... .T.M.: Tired of old girl and burglar
under the bed... .R.J.F.: Sketch has some life,
but wheeze is dead... .L.D.: You have ideas; pity
you lack the skill to present them... .O.B.: Why
did you give the cow five legs?... .G.M.E.: A fairly
good first attempt. .. .K.S.: Drawing of curate
making eyes at verger’s wife declined... .N.M.W.:
All at sea; perspective especially bad... .F.C.F.:
Exhumed gags and slovenly style... .M.J.: Seem to
have seen those flappers before... .T.A.: Bristles
with blunders. .. .L.M.8.: A waste of paper and ink.
. ...C.C.: Fifth-rate... .W.G.: If you must shed
tears over the slaughter of those emus you might at
least learn to draw the birds. .. .D.J.S.: Rough as
bags.... E.M.W.: A chestnut.... 8.T.: Gracefully.
drawn, but the gag is no gloomchaser. . . .C.S.: No
use for such stuff... .E.G.W.: Pointless... .L.R.:
Enthusiasm is not enough; you must also be able
to draw. . . .N.J.W.: Cost us 4d. to gaze at the
horror you sent. . . .T.H.S.: Treatment doesn’t redeem
the feebleness of the joke.


x ;»: !;u 1 ‘s'
sdf
m
■
jf||| ' , ' . -00%*'^
g§i ’
:
I
¥
,
ARCHER,
Winner of the Melbourne Cup,
1861.
Owner - - - E. De Mestre
Trainer- - - E. De Mestre
Jockey - - - J. Cutts
Weigh':- - - 9st. 71b.
Time- - - - 3min. 52sec.
V-''
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., Ltd.


The Bulletin
Vol. 53. —No. 2753.
November 16, 1932.
THE KING IN EXILE.
“Referring to a cable that, after years of secret experiments, the Imperial Chemical Industries, Ltd., has solved the problem of the commercial production of
petrol from coal, the chief executive officer of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (Dr. Rivett) said that unlimited quantities of motor fuel could be made
from Australia’s black or brown coal, and the resulting product was in every way equal' to the finest motor fuel obtainable from petroleum.”
LOYAL SUBJECT: “Cheer up, your Majesty. This lady and I have come to lead you back to your old glories.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: IU-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 259 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, H Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to anv address in Australasia,
ueelcly: 12 months, £1 1/s.; 6 months, 12c. 6d.;
S months, 7s.
'To ant address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
< months, 15s. 6d.; S months. Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji ana
United Kingdom via “All Sea Itoute”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for hoz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
BANKS AND POLITICS.
In the Representatives the other day the
Minister in charge of the House warned
private banks that if they engaged in poli-
tical propaganda there could emerge only
one issue, the nationalisation of banking.
“I ask,” said Mr. Parkhill, “why this
private bank”—he had previously named the
Bank of N. S. Wales—“is stepping into the
arena of politics with propaganda articles.
Why is. it that the manager of this institu-
tion some little time age referred to the
Ottawa Conference in contemptuous terms
as a politicians’ conference? Why is it
this bank is conducting propaganda for an
increased exchange? I have fought to keep
the private banking institutions free from
political interference of any kind, and I
say there is a duty which falls upon these
institutions themselves to keep out of the
political arena. If they don’t” —and Mr.
Parkhill went on to say that the nationali-
sation issue would inevitably emerge.
The outburst was bound to come. It is
astonishing that it did not come sooner.
The history of civilisation is largely a
record of efforts to limit the ways in which-
a man may make money, and the terms on
which he may hold it. So innumerable have
been the restrictions that all a citizen owns
to-day he owns by permission of the Gov-
ernment under which he lives; and of his
earnings he retains only just as much as the
law says he may. Even his home may be
taken from him if the proper authority de-
clares that the public has need of it; and
his possession of land is a myth since the
State may take by way of taxation all
that the land is capable of producing. To
all intents and purposes private ownership
has become only a permissive occupancy. It
has to be able and ready at all times to
justify itself.
In these latter days Communism has put
it more than ever on the defensive. The
attack thus far is not particularly against
the industrial system; it is rather against
the financial system. In effect, it says that
the manufacturer or the merchant may do
more good than harm in the course of
acquiring wealth—that the million he may
make is something which the manufac-
turer, for example, has in most cases added
to the wealth of the world and not some-
thing he has taken out of the pockets of
the people. There are many even among
the Communists who are prepared to admit
that in the making of the million the world
has thus benefited; but they want to know
what about the million after it has been
made. And that is the beginning of the
talk about “the money power.” All that
these discontented people see is a group of
great banks and other financial institutions
controlling hundreds of millions of pounds
even in a sparsely-peopled country like-
Australia; and they accuse these institu-
tions of withholding money—or credit as
they call it—for the express purpose of
deepening the depression and thus in some
mysterious way adding' to their own mil-
lions. From this point of view the banker
Niemeyer was “merely a minion of the
international money-trust” sent to Australia
to bring us into line so that we might be
fleeced with the rest.
The great defence to this sort of charge
in Australia has always been that this is
a country of thrifty workers, and that the
great bulk of the millions in the banks and
other institutions belongs to people of small
means: it has been pointed out that the
deposits in our savings banks amount to
about 220 millions, and the assets of the
life-insurance offices to another 145 millions,
the two together being more than all the
deposits in all the joint-stock banks—and
probably three-fourths of those deposits
also are owned by people of small means.
These great Australian institutions, it has
therefore been claimed, are simply bodies
for the investment of the savings of hun-
dreds of thousands of thrifty Australians,
including men and women of every shade of
political opinion. We have been able to
say that the only concern of those in con-
trol has been to secure a safe investment
and a good interest return. And there is
no question that that generally has been
entirely true. Nor was the policy departed
from when the Commonwealth Bank was
established. At first under a governor and
afterwards under a board, it has again and
again made its position clear. “We are
dealers in money and credit,” it has said.
“If you want money and credit dealt in
in such a way as to produce certain effects,
that is a matter of policy which is for the
Government of the country and not for
us to. determine.” What the board of the
Commonwealth Bank has thus said, the
board of practically every joint-stock bank
had been saying for years.
That was the position w’hen Mr. A. C.
Davidson became general manager of the
Bank of N. S. Wales, the greatest of the
private banks of Australia, and in point of
size the only rival of the Commonwealth
Bank. Mr. Davidson, a man of strong
opinions upon many things—the proper
functions of the Commonwealth Bank
among them—was scon dissatisfied with the
rate of overseas exchange. Now, nobody
has any right to complain if Mr. Davidson
was dissatisfied. His business was to give his
depositors safety and a fair return and to
make profits for his shareholders: he was
one of those in control of the savings of
the thrifty Australians already mentioned.
If Mr. Davidson saw an opportunity of rais-
ing the exchange rate to 30 p.c. and making
more money for his depositors and share-
holders without risk, it was probably his
duty as a banker to do it. At that time
the rate had been put up by the banks
acting together to 115 in order to provide
the necessary funds in London. The Bank
of N. S. Wales, acting independently, put
it up to 130, not because funds were wanted
in London,’ but because, so it was explained,
Mr. Davidson believed that a higher rate
would be a good thing for the country,
through the stimulation of the export indus-
tries. Since then no attempt has been made
to camouflage the policy of the Bank of
N. S. Wales, and around it has sprung up
a group of the most active propagandists in
Australia. This group, operating in the
shelter of the bank, has taken hold of every
opportunity to advocate the lowering of
protectionist duties and the raising of the
exchange; and, using the tremendous prestige
of the bank, it has gathered politicians and
publicists within its influence. Through
them it was able to exert great influence
upon the recent Premiers’ Conference in
Melbourne; and more directly it sought to
prejudice Parliament against the decisions
of the Ottawa Conference—decisions which
are anathema because ■ they run counter to
those freetrade ideas with which it has
associated itself.
There need be no question that Mr.
Davidson believes his policy is the best
for the nation. But the moment Mr. David-
son uses the power of his bank in the
interests of one section, no matter how
deserving, and not in the interests of his
customers and his shareholders, he does
that very thing which it has always been
urged the Australian financial institution
never does—he brings “the money power”
into politics. Hitherto we have been able to
say that the funds of the great institu-
tions of Australia have been provided not
by a few great capitalists but by a great
number of small, thrifty investors. What
difference does that make, we shall inevit-
ably be asked in the future, if the control
of the money of these many small men is
in the hands of one or two other men who
are prepared to use it to advance national
policies of which they approve, without
asking whether the people who own the
funds approve or not?
If this were a matter which concerned,
only the shareholders of the Bank of N. S.'
Wales it might well be left to them. Un-
fortunately it concerns every joint-stock
bank in Australia. For nothing is surer
than that if general managers of private
banks are permitted and encouraged to
invade the territory of the politician and
use the power of their banks to impose their
own policies upon the country, the poli-
tician ■will sooner or later answer the chal-
lenge by wiping the challengers out of exist-
ence. And it will be no defence to say
that the general managers acted with the
best intentions. Scarcely any revolutionary
ever plea'ded anything else.
BLONDIN AND SUGAR.
Those who saw the first great Blondin’s
performance remember how carefully he
balanced the load he carried on his back or
pushed in his wheelbarrow. Industry is
Blondin, always balancing itself on its rope,
always with its pole striving to preserve its
equilibrium, and at the moment making a
horrible mess of the job because somehow
the load has shifted.
They seem to see this more clearly in
America than anywhere else, perhaps be-
cause America is almost self-contained;
they grow nearly everything that is in de-
mand there—except titles for heiresses to
marry. So we have the monthly circular
of the National City Bank of New York
expressing its opinion that the immediate
cause of the depression is “the disparity in
Price relations.” It quoted in August a
leading U.S. authority that the disorder
began in the loss of purchasing power by
the farmers. At once “industrial produc-
tion decreased, unemployment began and
we started the downward spiral which re-
sulted in the avalanche now in progress.”
And it asks what else could possibly have
happened since “the disparity between the
prices of what the farmer sells and what
he is accustomed to buy has increased
until, as recently reported by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, a given quantity of the
farm staples will buy only about one-half
as much of the other things as they did
over the five years ended in 1913. This has
been the undoing of the other industrial
groups.” Find a way to raise the prices of
what the farmer has to sell, it is agreed
almost universally, and you have solved the
problem of the depression.
In Australia the advantage of high prices
for wheat and for wool, even for meat and
for metals, is quite generally recognised.
But, curiously, when it comes to sugar,
many of us are ready to scream that the
case is quite different. Granted that the
position of all these products is not the
same; granted that two-thirds of the wheat
and more than that of the wool are ex-
ported, while only from one-third to one-
half of our sugar has to find a market
abroad. But what difference does that
make? America at any rate knows that low
prices for farm products, and especially
sudden falls of prices, are “the undoing
of the other industrial groups,” whether
the products are consumed at home or ex-
ported. Not a great deal of wheat is
shipped out of the U.S.A.; the country
eats nearly all that it grows. Of a recent
annual average of 850 million bushels grown
it has exported net only 98 million bushels.
Yet “the loss of purchasing power by the
farmers started the downward spiral
which resulted in the avalanche now in pro-
gress.”
Nothing would be easier than to have
cheap sugar in Australia. It could be grown
and sold possibly for 2d. per pound. Wheat
could also be grown and sold possibly for
18d. per bushel. It is simply a matter of
labor and capital costs. If colored labor
were employed on our wheat farms we
might not have to worry about the competi-
tion of Canada or the Argentine or of
Russia either —especially if low wages were
accompanied by a crash in land values and
a consequent fall in capital charges. But
who would be the gainer by it? A few
years ago Chinese almost monopolised the
vegetable-growing for the chief cities of
Australia. Who got fat through it? Did
the wretched hovels in which these men
lived—a few still persist—encourage us to
make general the practice of employing
cheap labor in any other branch of agri-
culture —wheat-farming or sugar-growing, for
example?
We tried the same plan once in connec-
tion with gold-digging. Someone found out
that Chinese coolies under supervision made
very good miners; and they were intro-
duced accordingly. Their weekly wages
were little, sure enough; but very soon the
community was asking how much better off
it was for the cheap workers. Australia found
out then what Henry Ford has preached
so hard for years in America—that the more
people can buy the more people can
sell. And that is precisely what the Blon-
din-world is finding out now: the whole
business is disturbed because the purchas-
ing power of one large section of it was
cut down by about one-half.
Some foolish people think it would be a
fine thing to cut down the price of sugar
by one-half. If it would be, it ought to
be a fine thing for America to be now able
to get its wheat and its flour for half of
what it formerly paid. But, as we have
seen, instead of being a fine thing, it has
been and still is held to be a disastrous
thing—the beginning of “the avalanche now
in progress.”
But there are other reasons why it would
not pay Australia to get its sugar as cheap
as no doubt it could be got if colored labor
were employed in the industry. The one
kind of colored labor now available in quan-
tity is Asiatic: in the days when the kanaka
was employed the industry was a tiny one,
and the force required very small. No
people in the world offer such good ground
for the revolutionary propagandist as the
Asiatic coolie—lndian, Chinese or Malay.
It always was dangerous to admit large
bodies of these people to Australia: to-day
the danger is enormously greater than it was
in the days before the Communist had been
given the revenues of Russia to play with.
Yet sugar-growing is a tropical industry;
and if the white man is to do the work the
white man must get white man’s wages—there
can be no thought of paying him at those
colored-men’s rates at which nine-tenths of
the cane-sugar of the world is produced.
He must have white man’s wages and con-
ditions both for his own sake and for the
nation’s. For the nation’s, because, as we
have seen, the nation cannot be prosperous
unless the men in its primary industries
have a high purchasing power. Transfer
such an industry to cheap labor and,
whether it be white or colored, other groups
of workers must face disaster, as the 10
millions of unemployed in the U.S.A. at this
moment testify; in such circumstances the
Blondin of industry on his crazy rope in-
evitably loses his balance and crashes.
THE WHITE IN THE TROPICS.
The death of Sir Ronald Ross, the man
who discovered the cause of malaria, has
renewed interest in the tropics as a resi-
dence for the white man, and one of the
claims made is that Ross’s discovery has
enlarged the habitable globe by one-third.
But this one-third can only be kept "habit-
able on its present scale under the surveil-
lance of the white man, and the malarial
mosquito is not the only factor in his case.
There are numerous others, psychological,
physiological and environmental, which pub-
licists sitting in comfortable offices in
temperate climes seldom visualise.
When a young Caucasian goes to the
tropics he usually starts off by drinking
heavily. This is due not so much to any
specific need created by climatic conditions
as to the fact that instincts more or less
repressed in a more elderly society, where
the feminine influence is strong, are more
easily indulged in a tropical environment.
In his potations, and largely as a conse-
quence of them, the young man usually
acquires venereal disease. If he recovers he
may become a sadder and a wiser man and
he may settle down to a more regular and
cautious regimen. His next enemy is dull
monotony. The lonely planter who
solemnly dresses in order to dine with him-
self is the classic case. Sometimes, to intro-
duce a little variety, the tropical resident
will live a day backwards, starting with
dinner in the morning and ending with
breakfast and a bath. Most Australians
in the tropics get specially restless on
Saturday afternoons, no doubt because they
unconsciously visualise the crowds going to
football matches in their native land.
Man is jiaturally a herding animal, and
the white man in the tropics usually identi-
fies himself with some herd—his club, his
regiment or the administrative caste. But
the herd is small, and its tyranny is there-
fore more effective than in Western lands,
and it is difficult to escape from one herd
into another when the control becomes too
irksome. So the white man submits to
the tyranny and thus loses his individuality.
The rare exceptions are the men who can
subsist on their own resources; but these
are few and far between.
Most white men come to the tropics to
make money and get out as quickly as pos-
sible. This prevents them from taking any
real interest in their environment. The
Administrator may take a sentimental inter-
est in the uplift of the natives, but for the
vast majority of w’hites the natives are an
irrelevant and somewhat sinister back-
ground of whose thoughts, desires, habits
and language they are as ignorant as any
homestaying Londoner. This sense of being
an exotic plant in a hostile and ungrate-
ful soil has grown enormously of late owing
to the development of democratic ideas
and the demand for self-determination
amongst the natives.
The result of all these factors is a ten-
dency towards neurasthenia which finds ex-
pression in exaggerated fears. More and
more able to control his physical conditions
but less and less able to control his human
environment, the w’hite man is apt to suc-
cumb to panic when he thinks that his
supremacy is being challenged. There are
honorable exceptions, but most demands
for repression come from the people on the
spot.
The life of the white man in the tropics
is definitely abnormal and is always likely
to be so. He seldom contemplates matri-
mony until comparatively late. This would
have no psychological or physiological sig-
nificance if it weren’t for the fact that he
has been conditioned by a Puritanical
society more or less adapted to temperate
climes, but entirely unsuited for life in
tropical lands. The white man who goes to
the Equator may have liaisons with mar-
ried women of his own race, take a native
mistress or pay occasional visits to the
native redlight districts. Whichever method
he adopts his conscience is usually at war
with his instincts, and he suffers accord-
ingly.
So the future of the white man in the
tropics is not entirely wrapped up in the
conquest of malaria. It depends largely
on the extent to which the empires which
send him forth can stand the strain
of the sacrifice of its blood to- ennui, the
equatorial Jezebel. The Dutch have par-
tially solved the problem by handing their
empire over to the Eurasian. The Portu-
guese failed.
FENG-SHUI
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Last, Howls of Langism.
Trade-unionists who have to take Mr.
Lang’s newspaper and get no other miss a
good deal. When B. S. B. Stevens, then
leader of the Opposition, produced in Par-
liament a copy of a letter setting forth that,
“in the event of the Government legalising
night betting on hare-racing, w r e”—two tin-
hare potentates—“will sign a 12 months'
advertising contract with your paper for
£IOOO at Bs. per inch,” the paper in question
—Mr. Lang’s, of course—did not report him.
The same Stevens, now Premier, made
some very sultry remarks in the Leg.
Assembly last week in reply to a roaring
cataract of calumny from Mr. Lang. He
said:—•
There is only one man who received Labor-party
funds —Mr. Lang-. On the eve of the 1927 general
election, when again the fate of the tin hares was
in the balance, Mr. Lang received into his trust
account in the A.B.C. Bank, Auburn, the stupen-
dous sum of £24,400. I find that £12,000 was
spent on election expenses and the other £12,000
was cut up as follows: To “Labor Daily,” £5000;
transferred to J. T. Lang’s fixed-deposit account.
£4000; transferred to Lang’s private account,
£256; paid to his son-in-law, F. G. Hill, in matter
of house mortgage, £950 ; paid as special payment
to Mr. Mark Gosling (then Chief Secretary), £2OOO.
Again the censorship was applied by Mr.
Lang’s newspaper. Not a w r ord of the
matter quoted above did it publish, though
it regaled its readers with seven columns of
Lang, cutting Stevens down to a third of a
column. Its first reference to the subject
was in the form of a plaintive denial from
Mr. Gosling—issued to the “capitalistic”
press as well—that he had received the
£2OOO.
To unmask corruption it is sometimes
necessary’ to deal with shady characters.
Before the American crook Swindell shot


up as monarch of all he surveyed m the
tin-hare region, a certain Barry, described
by the Royal Commissioner, Justice Halse
Rogers, as “a thoroughly unreliable and
untrustworthy person,” suggested that he
could get night betting, which had been
abolished by the Bavin Government, legal-
ised again,' specifically by “influencing”
members of the Leg. Council, and was pro-
mised 10,000 shares in tin-hare companies
if he brought it off. He did not succeed,
the greater infamy and reward being
reserved for Swindell; but in the course of
his manoeuvres he became possessed of
revealing documents. These he sold to
Nationalists, who made effective use of
them, though they seem to have found
Barry an unpleasant customer to deal with.
In an effort to counteract the damning effect
of the Halse Rogers report, Mr. Lang made
the purchase of papers from Barry the pre-
text for a censure motion. He was seen in
another explosion of rage, hatred and un-
charitableness ; but people have grown fami-
liar with these exhibitions, which deceive
only morons now. “Mr. Stevens paid Barry
£2000,” the wild man shouted, “to commit
rank perjury.” The Premier’s reply was
that he had never met Barry in his life.
“Mr. Justice Halse Rogers made his home
available for political purposes”; he
attended a garden party at which “the
people mixed up in the Barry bribery case”
were present; his report was that of “a
party supporter acting in the capacity of a
private detective”; he “completely ignored
the evidence of Mr. Swindell,” and “brought
in a finding based on speculation.” Accord-
ing to judicial custom, the object of this
blackguardly attack has disdained to answer
it. Mud has been thrown from the same
quarter at other members of the Bench,
and their Honors doubtless feel that to be
traduced by a tin-hare politician like Mr.
Lang is to be praised indeed.
The whole truth about tin-hare rottenness
did not come out at the inquiry. Nor has
the whole truth about night betting been
told. Yet welfare workers could relate
heartrending stories of the effect on women
and children, ill-clad and ill-fed, in many
homes, and wherever the evil thing has been
introduced there have been accounts of
young girls prostituting themselves to get
money to bet with. Too much has been
revealed in one sense; too little in another.
We have seen a self-styled “Labor” Gov-
ernment encourage the people to gamble,
and wantonly break the unwritten law that
immunity from the Betting Act shall be
granted only to non-proprietary concerns.
We know now that an American adventurer
sold gambling concessions, the property of
the Crown, to whoever would pay his price,
and shared his ill-gotten gains with the
“Labor” party, though there is an account
of “between £SOOO and £6ooo”—part of
£22,000 “obtained from various sources”—
unaccounted for. We know also that, in
spite of police protests, unlawful gaming im-
plements, called “fruit machines,” were estab-
lished in hotels, and that one of the bene-
ficiaries has sworn that “week by week
10 per cent, of the takings was paid over
to Sleeman,” Mr. Lang’s “publicity officer.”
The deal with Barry is described by the
patron of this “publicity officer,” now no
longer in Government employ, as “the
greatest scandal known to our political his-
tory.” No, it is not; but Langism is.
' +
Unrest in the Navy.
There is profound discontent in the Aus-
tralian Navy, and the only explanation the
Defence Department can give is the exist-
ence of mysterious Bolshevik plots. The
truth is, as every naval officer knows and as
some of the most prominent of them have
said for publication, the men regard Com-
munism, Langism and the rest as a joke;
the only subject which is exercising them is
their bread and butter.
For upwards of 10 years the lower deck
has gone back and back as regards pay
and privileges relatively to the politically-
organised shore workers; and, as the navy
has been cut down, and with it the lower
deck’s voting strength, the politicians have
grown more and more indifferent. The
Scullin cuts were accepted without serious
protests; the men felt it was up to them to
carry on in the country’s hour of need, if
it was humanly possible. Some have been
trying ever since, without complaints, at
the expense of the comfort and even of the
health of their wives and children. The
basic wage for unskilled workers, which is
what R.A.N. ratings nominally get, is only
supposed to provide for the bare necessities
of life at the best. Still, the A. 8., who is
often highly skilled, would be satisfied if
he got it. The trouble is he doesn’t. It is
doubtful if a ration allowance should be
made a charge on his daily pay; a shore
worker, if required to work over a meal
hour, gets “tea money.” It is obvious that
kit upkeep expenses should not be deducted:
a lift-driver on shore has his uniform looked
after by his employer, a barman has his
white coat laundered, and so on. Deferred
pay can’t be operated on till the expiration
of the drawer’s term, yet it is deducted
from the alleged basic wage of the A.B.—
and, incidentally, it is liable to forfeiture
as a whole or in part. These and a dozen
more discrepancies and injustices are help-
ing to keep members of the lower deck on
the bread-line or below it.
. O ur sailors are in the invidious position
m a union-bossed land of being the only
workers who can’t belong to a union or
associate themselves with politics, and whose
bosses of the Defence Department are able
to say, without the intervention of any
Court, just what their hours and wages shall
be, with the further advantage of being in a
position to accuse the men of Bolshevism
whenever they kick. If the politicians who
control the department had imagination
and statesmanship they would do everything
possible to make this section of the com-
munity as contented as possible. In the
absence of the army, which has been short-
sightedly got rid of, a satisfied R.A.N. is
going to be Australia’s last bulwark against
the Reds who Pearce says are continually
trying to disaffect it.
♦
Help for the Farmer,
The Commonwealth Government, having
got a faint sniff of a surplus in the dis-
tance, proposes to hand the States a million
and a quarter “for distribution among those
wheat-farmers suffering the greatest hard-
ships,” and to spend another million in get-
ting the industry cheaper superphosphates.
The Bulletin has no heart for the job of
throwing stones at anyone who is helping
a lame dog; but the principle at the back
of all this is utterly wrong.
Here are two farmers side by side. One
is a careful, studious man who worked
early and late, wasted nothing, planned well
ahead, and, if he has very little in his
pocket, at any rate has very few bills on
the file behind the kitchen door. The other,
careless about everything, a poor manager
because too mentally lazy to be anything
else, is up to his ears in debt. A scheme
which chooses this latter man for help out
of the Treasury is a poor thing. There was
a fair ground for offering assistance to the
industry—not merely to the failures of the
industry. This country rightly has a policy
of high protection and labor regulation, from
which the farmer is getting very little bene-
fit, and which, on the other hand, is costing
him a good deal. He is fairly entitled to
something as a set-off to the high costs
resulting from the high level of wages which
the law has prescribed. The most direct
way of giving him that set-off—of letting
him share in the high level of wages as
already he shares in the high level of costs
—was to put a sales tax on flour, or adopt
the plan which is followed in connection
with sugar and butter. The plan which
this lazy, nervous Government has adopted
is equivalent to giving the highest rate
of protection to the worst-run industry, and
encouraging the factory-owner to muddle
through with poor plant and worse methods.
As for the proposed assistance through
the super, firms, that is all right. Cer-
tainly it will encourage men to use super,
whether super, is the best thing for their
soil or not, or whether better farming might
not have avoided the ueed for so much of
it. There is a type of farmer who thinks
that soil and super, are all that are needed
to get crops; and of all types of farmers he
is the last one that deserves encourage-
ment. The Government’s scheme picks him
out for special assistance.
Hoover Goes Out.
The Presidential election in the U.S.A.,
resulting in the overwhelming defeat of
Hoover, the Republican candidate, and the
return of Roosevelt and the Democrats,
suggests that the whole business of politics
is largely a matter of leg-pulling. A Gov-
ernment comes in on its election platform.
It has three or four years’ office, in the
course of which the public is disillusioned.
Then another crowd offers a new line of
baits, and the fish take another chance.
Almost always the contest is between
promise and performance; and in the natu-
ral course of events promise wins. Politics
never or hardly ever gives what it professes
to be ready and able to give because,
knowing man’s weakness, it offers a short
cut to happiness which leaves out hard
work, self-denial, thrift and most of the
other old-fashioned virtues.
There were, no doubt, special influences
at work in America. Among others, the
Prohibition issue was raised. In that con-
nection, what is of most interest from the
point of view of the outsider is that, while
neither party was satisfied with the law as
it stands —or with anything else, for that
matter —none was willing to wipe out Pro-
hibition. There is, nevertheless, probably
some significance in the fact that Roosevelt
and the Democrats declared themselves will-
ing to go farthest in that direction. The
most likely practical result will be an amend-
ment legalising the sale of wine and beer,
but keeping spirits and the saloon still out
of bounds. The consequences will, of course,
continue to be disappointing, not because
they may not be good, but because they
will not be as good as it was promised they
would be.
Perpetual disappointment is indeed one
of the prices we pay for our democratic
government and our special brand of
civilisation. In the political sphere we
paint our own candidates’ virtues and
probable performances in colors such as no
candidate and no political platform ever
deserved. In the commercial sphere we lie
so brazenly about our wares that reputable
traders have been stirred to begin a cam-
paign in favor of truth in advertising, and
here and there Governments have proposed
to take a hand in the matter. No doubt
the press is very largely responsible. It
pleads that the public will have its palate
tickled; wherefore if there is no sensational
news, news that is not in truth sensational
is spiced to pass muster. In plain words,
the public is deceived into believing that
it is getting what in fact it is not getting
in order that sales may be made, whether
of evening papers or Presidents.
No doubt the time will come when truth
will again prevail. From the start of the
war onwards we have been living in a world
of low moral and ethical values, in which
the end has justified the means. There have
apparently been other periods when the
same thing has happened in a smaller de-
gree; but always in a time of suffering the
world has more or less purged itself. But
thus far we are not disposed to face the
facts; and until we do so we shall not
wake up to the sort of period we have been
living in.
♦
Is the World Short of Money?
Sir Robert Horne, a former Chancellor of
the Exchequer, joining in a House of Com-
mons debate on unemployment last week,
said that “if silver was once more put in
an appropriate position in relatiop. to the
monetary systems of the world, industry and
trade would benefit more than from any
other single device.” Forty years ago
bimetallism did seem strongly justified. The
trade and commerce of the world had grown
enormously in the previous 50 years; but
apart from what the rushes of the ’forties
and ’fifties yielded, there had been no
great -additions to the world’s stock of
monetary gold, although more and more
countries had made that metal the basis
of their currencies. From 1890 onward,
however, the position was completely
changed; during these last 40-odd years
South Africa alone has mined more gold
than all the world seems to have produced
in all the years before that date. On top
of that there has been the vast output of
Australia and Alaska, with the result that
at the present moment the world’s store
of the metal is probably three times greater
than it was when bimetallism was previously
a live issue—in the late ’eighties and
earliest ’nineties. More than that, large
quantities of hoarded gold have been
brought to light during the past few years
and made available for monetary use;
India alone has disgorged 70 millions sterl-
ing worth.
It may be that the restoration of silver
to the currency in a fixed relation to gold
might improve the possibilities of Cau-
casian trade with India and China; but
even that is pot certain. As for the general
effect of the remonetisation of silver, it is
now reasonably clear that it is not money
the world is short of, but confidence to use
what it has.
Children in the Cow Country.
“Ratio’s” letter (B. 2/11/’32) referring to
the backward state of education in the Vic.
cow country has produced a crop of letters.
These are representative:—
“J.C.J.” (Q.) : I can speak only for the
industry in Queensland ; but I think the con-
ditions are much the same in every State.
It is not true here, at any rate, that the men
and women in the industry are generally
poorly educated. Of course, there are some
illiterates ; but many—very many—are well
educated. I can speak of two women in par-
ticular. I am a woman, too, and went to
school with them —they were our brilliant
girls. It is they and others like them who
are paving the way to the time when the
industry will be carried on without child
labor. They are not exploiting it to-day:
at the worst, they are getting on their feet
with a little of its help—-no more.
“McNoon” (Vic.) : The child that milks
“a dozen to twenty cows,” then does odd jobs
about the farm and walks three miles to
school, is, if existent, a rare exception and
never met by me. Nowadays ponies, pony-
carts and bicycles feature prominently in
the transportation of farm children to school.
My experience shows that very many dairy-
farm children do take a keen interest in
cows and their job; how otherwise account
for the vigorous growth of the Calf Club
movement? There are more than 100 clubs
in Victoria alone. I know scores of families
on dairy farms none of whose members has
any inclination for leaving the life. Cer-
tainly there are ignorant parents of low
mentality on dairy farms as in other walks
of life. But many children from dairy farms
attend secondary schools, and quite a
number whom I know have passed on into
professions; others, whose parents give them
the option, prefer to work on the farm.
In any case, is this higher education such a
wonderful thing? Surely the best education
for a farm youth with no white-collar
ambition is a practical knowledge of farm-
ing, and, at a time like the present, who,
generally speaking, is the better off —the
farmer or his more scholastic brother who
drifted to the city for a clerical or semi-
clerical job? “Ratio’s” sovereign remedy
for what is not, after all, an ill —except in
very rare cases —is the same old pompous
twaddle that dairy-farmers have had hurled
at them for years by rolltop-desk dairy-farm
experts. I could write a book on my experi-
ences of such experts—and the parts about
those who have gone on the land to revolu-
tionise the prevailing methods would be
chiefly humorous.
“Jack Spratt” (N.S.W.) : As a young
dairy-farmer, and a product of the system
complained of by “Ratio,” I resent his
sweeping assertions. He commences by
quoting the Melbourne “Herald,” whose in-
formant was probably not a man of the
land, or, if so, an utter misfit. Far too
many such inept men plunge into the ranks
of the dairymen and blame the conditions
rather than themselves and their training,
which should commence at an early age.
What “Ratio” says about the observations
of teachers in the dairying districts is
certainly inapplicable to any Hunter River
(N.S.W.) district, where modern machin-
ery, etc., is in general use. The boy who
milks “a dozen to twenty cows” is an infant
prodigy, and the long trudge to school is
uncommon—the school pony is an established
fact, and what nicer sight than three smiling
youngsters astride a stout old cob? Prose-
cutions for non-attendance are unknown in
our district, and if “Ratio” would scan the
pages devoted to boys’ and girls’ letters in
the agricultural press he might change his
outlook on the supposed lack of enthusiasm
in the “junior farmer.”
♦
The New Morality.
Parsons and lay publicists are
perpetually telling us that morality is de-
caying in this post-war Depression age;
which, of course, only means that morals
are changing. One fundamental thing that
is happening is that young men are taking
the position in the family economy which
young women formerly occupied. That is
to say, they are growing up with the feel-
ing that they will prdbably not find jobs,
while their sisters are growing up with a
reasonable hope that they will find them.
Thirty years ago the leisured young woman
was still not a phenomenon but a part of
the natural order of existence, so she had
a good conscience about it. She learnt a
bit of cooking and a bit of needlework, and
for the rest her business was to look decor-
ative and eventually catch a husband. To-
day the young men are in this position.
Most of them have a bad conscience about
it, and many feel resentment against their
womenfolk. But those who have the in-
telligence to worry things out for them-
selves are beginning to see that there is some-
thing radically wrong with a system which
can only survive through replacing males
by females in industry; still, it was the old
men made the system, so why should they
worry? Consequently the resentment is
shifting to the old men, who naturally can’ri
see that it is their fault.
I know an elderly man who complains
that his son dresses well, knocks around the
city, goes to the pictures twice a week and
is out with his girl, who has a good job in
a city office, till two o’clock every second
morning. The old man’s daughters are all
in good jobs, too, and he looks to them to
give him the opportunity for retiring that
he longs for. His paternal pride has shifted
its objective from the male to the female
side of his family. Useless to look to his
son to realise the paternal ambition to see
the family rise in the social scale! It is to
the girls he must look for any progress in
that direction. So he tries as far as possible
to boss his boy and restrict his liberty and
control his actions as he would have bossed
his girls 30 years ago. The boy retorts with
displays of temperament which would have
been classed as effeminacy at one time, and
there are constant rumpuses. The girls, on
the other hand, are shown marks of favor.
They accept their new position without
question, and automatically enjoy a degree
of freedom which would once have been
considered unthinkable.
The change from a patriarchal to a mat-
riarchal society ought to be complete in
another generation, if things go on as they
are going at present. When that time comes
we will have a woman’s morality instead of
a man’s morality. There will be more neuras-
thenia amongst men than women, and it will
be men instead of women who will make
the fortunes of aspirin manufacturers. Men,
being the pursuers, will dress beautifully
instead of horribly.
Of course, none of these things may come
to pass, because women may claim and get
equal wages with men, when it will no
longer be worth while to employ them in
place of men; or society may disappear
altogether through too many women being
withdrawn from their job of maternity.
* __
The National Song.
Is there another country in the world where
a newspaper’s call for a national song would
produce within a few weeks over a thousand
entries? Whether out of this number which
The Bulletin has received in reply to its
invitation there will be a song worthier
than those already available it is, of course,
too early yet to say; the entries will not
close until to-night, and it will still remain
to wed the words to music. If the words
are inspiring the music will come; we need
have no fear about that. But if nothing
of such a character comes out of the call,
the fact that an earnest effort has been made
to get it will justify authority in choosing
from those already in use one song for all
Australia. It is a serious reflection on our
nationalism that we have thus far been
content to retain in the various States the
various songs which were in use before we
were a nation in either name or fact.
It would be interesting to speculate on the
cause of the remarkable response to the call
for a national song. It would, of course,
be heartening to believe that it is due to
a widespread patriotic feeling of the need
of such a song. No doubt there has been
such a feeling; but The Bulletin believes
the response to be quite as much due to
the fact that Australians more than any
other people in the world must sing. Where
there is sun there is song; and in this land
of sunlight, even though we may not be
able to sing a note above our breath, there
is yet that singing in the blood which
makes us want to lilt our thoughts. Almost
always ours is the song of happiness and
not of passion; we sing because there is glad-
ness in us, and not great depth of feeling.
In that respect our song and our singing
mirror the national character; and those
who think to fit us with a system of govern-
ment made in the gloom of Russia might do
worse than compare the songs of the two
lands and their music, and judge from that
whether the feat is possible.


m
m
-jki
s
* ll
QUALITY should be your
first consideration!
CRAVEN “A"
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6. SO in flat tins, 3/9. 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years’ Reputation for Quality
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Commonwealth Government is reduc-
ing its land tax by one-third and increasing
the exemption from the iniquitous 10 p.c.
special tax on property income, as well as
making fish, jams, fruit pulp, pickles, sauces,
vinegar, cakes, canned fruits, books, maga-
zines and periodicals free of sales tax —of
primage, too, as far as books, magazines and
periodicals are concerned. This instalment
of relief is welcome, but it doesn’t go nearly
far enough. The aim should be to place in-
dustry in a position to re-employ the army
of out-of-works in their own trades and
callings. It will not be in that position
until direct taxes are limited to what is
required for the just expenses of govern-
ment, and until wage-payers again feel that
they (and not the tax-gatherer) will reap
where they have sown.
Lang, in the role of moralist: “It is re-
markable to see how some rogues become con-
science-stricken in the midst of their in-
famy.” Some do, and some don’t. In the
case of N.S.W. political rogues and their
shady friends it is a physical impossibility.
It looks as if the Argyle-Allan Ministry
will be in a minority when a division is taken
in Vic. Assembly on the question of in-
cluding in the Mortgages Bill an interest re-
duction of 224 p.c. on mortgages renewed
since October, 1931. What the Ministry will
do if beaten was uncertain at the week-end.
Premier Argyle was gloomy about the out-
look, but brightened up a bit when it was
suggested that a National Government ought
to take an adverse vote on such a matter
without resigning. Reconstruction of the
Ministry or a new Cabinet composed of
U.A.P.’s and Cockies may be proposed.
Hogan thinks he is the alternative leader,
but he is alone in that view.
Roosevelt beat Hoover by the greatest
majority ever given to a Democratic candi-
date for the Presidency. The distinction
was previously held, not by Jefferson or
Andrew Jackson, but by Franklin Pierce,
weakest of Presidents, who, after letting
his country drift to the verge of civil war,
emerged from retirement to attack Lincoln
for not giving in. He said it was “a fruit-
less war,” and that he himself had been
“struck dumb by the shock of the calamities
with which evil counsels, incompetency and
AUSTRALIA : “Been changing your President,
Uncle?”
UNCLE SAM: “Yes, that last feller I had
couldn’t tell me how to get my hand
out o’ this yere jar without lettin' the
gold go.”
corruption have overwhelmed our country.”
Lincoln himself failed of an absolute
majority at his first election (the voting
was 1,857,610 for Lincoln and 2,787,780 for
his three opponents), and when re-elected
during the war his margin was only 411,428
votes in a poll of 4,015,902. The Union
soldiers (they voted in the field) were the
chief factor in his victory; New Jersey,
Delaware and Kentucky declared against
him, and in New York, Pennsylvania and
New Hampshire it was touch and go.
After all the talk of dealing with persons
named, no action is to be taken in regard to
the findings of the Queensland Royal Com-
missioner as to the payment of secret com-
missions. If anyone feels like sueing any-
one, the lawyers will welcome the business,
but the Government has other uses for the
public’s money. Forgan Smith realises,
though Moore didn’t, that it is one thing to
condemn a party in a report to Parliament
and another to pot him in a court of law.
Stirred by the tremendous activity of the
Douglas Social Credit Association, N. S.
Wales Ministers are having an inquiry made
by the Government Statist. Appar-
ently his job will be to report whether two
and two really can make five. Meantime
the Federal Government has been invited to
suppress some of the association’s latest
literature, which is headed with a fanciful
portrait of the Prince of Wales. One sec-
tion of the community sees in the Douglas
quackery a half-brother to Communism, and
the association’s nerve in connecting the
Prince of Wales with its propaganda is
making various people see red. But it is
hard to see what the Government can do
about it.
“Mr. Lang’s vote of censure amounted to a com-
plaint that Ministers had instigated an inquiry
into the tin-hare scandals. He did not mention the
fruit machines.”
“Gam, y’ little beggar! Covered with mud
from head to foot, but y’re too stuck
up to admit it.”
Germany seems to be the answer to the
election agent’s prayer; the late struggle
for seats in the Reichstag was the fifth
this year. As usual, no party or combina-
tion of parties got a majority. Hitler, who
wants to be the German Mussolini, lost 35
scats, and the Communists gained 11—they
are 100 strong and represent 6,000,000
votes. There was no Ministerial party
in the field, but its absence was scarcely
noticed. The army is the Government.
There is significance in the variation of
an arrangement made by Adelaide Tram-
ways Trust with the City Council when it
took control of the Victoria-square corner
site, opposite the police court. “Erect
a building of seven storeys!” said the
optimists at the time, and if the boom
had lasted seven storeys it would have been.
Means are now limited, but the necessities
of the building trade are great, so instead
of seven storeys they are going to erect two.
In other matters Australia will have to come
down from seven stories to two.
The Parliamentary system works in Eng-
lish-speaking countries (though it has become
overloaded, and at times perverted, in Aus-
tralia) ; but it did not work in Italy, and
it is failing dreadfully in Germany. The
Italians have just celebrated their first decade
of Fascist rule. They are prouder than
ever of their Mussolini, and he has silenced
his detractors for the moment by granting
clemency to prisoners and exiled enemies,
by committing his country to sweeping reduc-
tions of armaments, consistent with its
safety, and by making a moving appeal to
the Americans to wipe out the war debts and
let the sad old world start again. This poor
blacksmith’s son is certainly one of the great
nmn of the age.
Books and periodicals from overseas,
hitherto subject to primage duty and sales
tax, are to be exempt; and so long as there
is iio dumping in Australia, that is quite
as it should be. But the position now is
that the foreign book and periodical pay no
sales tax at all, while the Australian book
and periodical must pay sales tax on many
things in their production—acids and metals
used in making “blocks,” for example; also
the plant used in the process. So, unless
the Government proposes to give the
overseas periodical in particular an advant-
age over the Australian article which em-
ploys Australian labor, it will have to follow
up the exemptions it has made with a few
more which it probably hasn’t yet thought
of.
Though Coolidge is a Massachusetts man'
Massachusetts voted for A 1 Smith four
years ago. Now it has declared for Frank-
lin Roosevelt. The explanation is that the
State which was the scene of the first Puri-
tan settlement is now more Irish'- than
English-American. The process lias been
going on for upwards of half a century
(Bryce mentions it in his “American Com-
monwealth,” published in 1888), and it has
now put a period to Republican and Puri-
tan ascendancy. Another of history’s little
ironies.
Replying to Carter, the Liverpool Plains
man, Stevens said that a bill dealing with the
misappropriation of trust funds was con-
templated and might be introduced “early
next year.” Carter ought to ask for a
return showing how many heartless frauds
of the kind have come to light in N. S.
Wales during the three depression years, and
the amounts involved. It would be so start-
ling that legislative protection of the public
—it is afforded in other countries —would
almost certainly be accelerated. In two
Sydney cases reported last week a Gent. One
robbed his clients of £19,000, and another
got away with £26,000. Incidentally the
only Federal member who has served a
sentence for theft was a solicitor; but
another Commonwealth lawyer-politician
would probably have gone to gaol if he
hadn’t died before his dishonesty was re-
vealed.
Vast as Britain’s dole expenditure has
been, it is dwarfed by what the U.S.A. has
distributed among its Great War soldiers
and their families, though it lost fewer men
in battle than this country. A 1 Smith is
the authority:—
The U.S.A. spends in a single year nearly twice as
much for veterans’ relief as Britain spent in 11
years on its dole. To June, 1931, more than
6,000,000,000 dollars was spent by the Federal Gov-
ernment in various forms of veterans’ relief, and
State Governments spent more than 580,000,000. In
the Federal budget for 1933 the largest single item
is for veterans’ relief; it amounted to 928,387,795
dollars, one-fourth of the total Federal appropria-
tions. By 1945, the Government will have spent
23,500,000,000 dollars, even under existing commit-
ments; 20 years later, if Congress should add the
new laws proposed by veterans’ organisations, the
veterans will be costing the whole of the cost of the
present government, which is close to 5,000,000,000
dollars.
And a large proportion of these “veterans”
were never under fire.
Coal, as far as Australian Governments
are concerned, is a synonym for trouble.
Victoria’s issue at the moment is a strike
in the Government mine at Wonthaggi.
N. S. Wales is doubtfully reopening the
Government mine at Lithgow, which was
closed because the fuel was ridiculously dear
compared with the nefarious capitalist’s
price for coal of the same quality. There
has also been a local food riot because the
Government refused to pay the store-
keepers’ _ charges, and miners on the dole
sided with the storekeepers. A strike in
the Collie pits obliged the Westralian Rail-
way Department to import 27,000 tons of
Newcastle coal in 1931-32 (nearly seven
times the quantity bought in 1930-31) and
pay 375. 2d. a ton for it from store. It has
since been grumbling at the price, of Collie
coal, of which it is the chief (and almost
the only) purchaser. A Royal Commis-
sioner, appointed to find out why the sub-
stance is so dear, has been told that John-
son and Lynn (deceased), of Amalgamated
Collieries, have drawn £137,000 from the
concern in 12 years. So some people are
doing well out of coal, though Premiers look
careworn when the stuff is mentioned.
“A plot to create disaffection in the R.A.N. was
exposed in the Senate by the Minister of Defence....
The real grievance in the R.A.N. is that the active
pay of an able seaman, unmarried, is 5s. 10s. a day.”
MINISTER: “I must really do something
about this herring. The nuisance is
becoming unbearable.”
Lyons said in his Budget speech that a
country whose national income had fallen
from £650,000,000 to £450,000,000 “simply
could not afford to pay” £11,126,000 in non-
contributory old-age and invalid pensions, as
it did in 1931-32, so the maximum
weekly rate would be reduced from 17s. 6d.
to 155., as in 1920, when living was dearer.
Even at the reduced figure he estimated the
1932-1933 outlay at £10,500,000. There was
an immediate uproar, and the Government
weakened; it left the maximum rate at Its-
6d. and introduced a host of regulations
designed to recover pension payments at
death (a matter involving legal compli-
cations) and to prevent fraud. It now finds
that “certain anomalies” have been created,
that “readjustments” will be necessary, and
that it will have to spend “£300,000 or
£400,000 more” than the estimated
£10,500,000. In other words, the country
will save little or nothing. And the Gov-
ernment, which would have been respected if
it had stuck to its guns—courage always com-
mands respect in Australia —is now despised
for bolting.
“Mr Spooner, the Assistant-Treasurer, is young in
politics. There are some matters concerning which
it is not wise to enter into public controversy.
The utterance of Mr. Spooner called for a reminder
of his inexperience.” —Sydney “Herald.”
“Eric Spooner, you call yourself? Well, go
and read ‘Eric, or Little by Little,’
immedjutly. Little Ministers should be
seen and not heard.”
Before the Queensland session ends, the
44-hour week is to be restored in all indus-
tries. It will mean that a lot of men now
working will go back on the dole. Many
found jobs when the 44-hours provision of
awards in industries having a tough time
were suspended. The settlement of hours
of work throughout Australia will have to
he made a Commonwealth matter. Some
workers are entitled to 44 hours and others
are not; some trades can stand it, and
others can’t. There ought to be discrimina-
tion, and that fairly arrived at, there ought
to be uniformity in the States and terri-
tories.
Leslie Mullens, the Vic. railway porter
who was sent by his union to study working
conditions in Soviet Russia, has been unfor-
tunate. He was honest enough to report that
the commissars were using bonuses and
other devices for making the worker work,
and this frankness failed to please the local
union leaders, who found it hard to believe
that their great exemplar, the Soviet, should
thus contravene their own policy. So Mul-
lens was relieved of his lecturing contract.
Now the Railways Commissioners have
relieved him of his job of portering.
Moore scotched a railway strike in North
Queensland by passing a Railway Strike
and Public Safety Preservation Act. When
McCormack had to deal with a transport
hold-up he had the Railways Act amended
in the direction of prohibiting stop-work
meetings. This principle was embodied in
Moore’s measure, but it is now to be re-
pealed. McCormack refused to re-employ the
men responsible for the 1925 stoppage, but
the Townsville strikers pushed out by
Moore have got their jobs back. Moral:
Don’t strike when Labor’s in; wait till
Labor’s out.
Doubts arise as to whether the Japanese
are really anxious for other foreigners to
share in the trade of Manchukuo under the
famous principle of the Open Door. Accord-
ing to their Minister for Foreign AfEairs, the
country will not be open for residence or
investment except to nationals of States
recognising its independence and relinquish-
ing extra-territoriality—and Japan is the only
one. A country that allows a foreigner to
make a statement like that on its behalf
hasn’t much independence to recognise.
Melbourne University Council wants to
appoint a salaried vice-chancellor, but has
to get Parliamentary sanction. Argyle says
that if his Government’s transport co-
ordination, land-settlement, education-reform
and finance bills are. passed with reasonable
expedition, he will be willing to oblige, being
himself a member of the Uni, Council. About
£2OOO p.a. is the pay suggested.
“Nareeadah” : “Jeames’s” “classic” example
of the idiotic extravagance of Bruce-Page
(B. 9/11/’32) can be paralleled. In 1929,
without consultation with its own Railway
Department, the 8.-P. granted a subsidy of
£29,000 p.a. for five years to an aeroplane
co. working the Perth-Adelaide route. In
addition to the expense of the subsidy, the
Government lost heaps of passenger traffic,
the co. charging the same fare as the rail-
way.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
AND THEN HE’D BE SET.
KINDLY COP : “Here you are, sir. Here’s the house, and here’s the step.”
REVELLER: “Shplendid! Where’sh me feet?”
“Strict Veg.”: The classic example of
wowserism is announced from Hungary,
There a law has just been passed for-
bidding artists to paint from the nude,
Models must be clad in bathing cos-
tume. Australian art students, in mixed
classes, take the unclothed model as a
matter of course, but there was a long
fight before some of our cities tolerated the
sinful practice. Adelaide, true to its role
of Holy City, was the last to permit it, and
it is not so long since life-class students
met there in catacombs, like the early Chris-
tians. In Sydney one of our veteran painters
and teachers went further in working from
the nude than is customary even in the most
advanced academies. He considered that
even when painting a fully-clothed politician
he should build on the basis of the unclothed
figure, which lie supplied from his imagina-
tion. A portrait of an eminent Minister of
the Crown was interrupted by the fall of
the Government, but the unfinished picture
still exists with the statesman sitting in a
chair in the altogether.
“Quaigli”: I am quite as well aware as
“Acli” that dancing-girls at Scottish High-
land gatherings nowadays wear the kilt and
plaid (B. 9/11/’32). Nevertheless the kilt
was never the dress of the genuine Highland
women of long ago, and is not the dress of
such to-day, though the plaid is, of course,
worn, as it always was. If “Acli” can show
me a photograph of a real Highland woman
of any class appearing in public in the kilt
—I am not referring to professional dan-
cers—l am prepared to buy him a drink.
The kilt is as out of place on a woman as it
is on a Lowland bonnet laird.
* :|: * =1:
“Molls”: The Salvation Army is about
to hold a well-deserved jubilee; it _ started
operations in Sydney on November 23, 1882.
And it had to encounter as
bitter hostility here as in
England; years were to pass
before it was to force world
recognition as a power for
good. I am old enough to
remember its genesis in the
U.K. and the desperate antag-
onism it wore down. By the
way, among their other acti-
vities iq those early days, the
Salvos did some valuable legal
work, which has long been
forgotten. When they first
began their marches and open-
air services, the opposition in
some cities and towns took the
form of a rival organisation,
the “Skeleton Army,” which
employed itself in interfering
with and harassing General
Booth’s disciples by claiming
the same rights as were be-
ginning to be conceded to the
Salvos. The clashes brought
the contending sides into the
law-courts, and did much to
elucidate and clarify the law
governing public meetings,
and in the textbooks of the period will be
found frequent references to cases of “Salva-
tion Army v. Skeleton Army,” and the like.
The Skeleton Army was routed in the end,
judicially as well as by public opinion.
# * $ ❖
“Jungor”: The machine-gun offensive
against marauding emus in the Westralian
wheat belt has been called off, whether
because of its lack of success or in defer-
ence to humanitarian and sentimental pro-
tests is not altogether clear. One of these
protests came from Victoria and seethed
with indignation about the “massacre of
Australian fauna.” Still, the dingo has
claims to inclusion in that gallery, and no-
body would object to poison gas or any
other method of destruction being employed
against him, if there were any chance of
it being successful. On the whole one gets
the impression that the emu is most popu-
lar where he has become scarcest, and even
then he is best appreciated at a distance.
One Sydney naturalist refers enthusiasti-
cally to “the bird’s grace and majesty as
it saunters in flocks over the great plains,”
but that aesthetic aspect can hardly be
expected to commend itself to wheatgrowers
who have seen their crops ravaged and their
very livelihood threatened by thousands of
voracious and elusive marauders driven into
the settled districts by climatic rigors
further out. At the same time it will
doubtless seem strange to people overseas
that machine-guns should have been
employed to mow down a bird utilised as a
national emblem. Perhaps the Irish Free
State was wiser when it started its national
coinage with fauna (largely exotic) which
fulfil only useful purposes—the horse, the
salmon, the hare, the pig and even the
humble domestic fowl,
* * * *
“T. Trove” : Fixed deposits get into some
queer places nowadays. A Sydney couple
whose faith in financial institutions had been
badly shattered by what happened to the
State Savings Bank under the Lang regime
methodically packed away over £lOO in
florins under the inner lining of the door
of their ice-chest, and reckoned no evil-
minded person was likely to come nosing
about that hoard. But the unexpected hap-
pened : they went to the pictures one night
and burglars broke in. The burglars
may have had some inkling of hidden
treasure being about, or they may have
given the ice-chest attention, after they
had annexed a few odds and ends of
no great value, on the off-chance of
finding supper and a bottle or two of beer
to refresh them after their professional
labors. Anyhow, they did go there, and
either the weight of the door or the jingle
THE IDEAL.
IKEY JUNIOR: “Fader, what’s the difference between interest and capital?”
IKEY SENIOR: “It should be as little as possible, my poy."
of specie put them wise to where the loot
was. That they got away with only half
of it is taken as an indication that they
were disturbed. After all, the old-fashioned
hiding places were probably the safest —
disused teapots, for instance.
’ * ❖ *
“Homicide”: The discovery of an imple-
ment which, while outwardly a fountain-pen,
was capable of propelling a capsule of liquid
ammonia or other unpleasantness ten
yards or so recalls another queer gadget
which came to light a few years back. This
was a tube without butt or trigger which
could easily be slipped up a sleeve. The
cartridge was put in at the muzzle, and a
spring attachment forced this, when released,
against a spike at the bottom of the tube
and exploded the charge. Except for the
spring, the principle was obviously copied
from the Stokes trench-mortar. With that
weapon the weight of the projectile—which
carried its own propellant—sliding down the
high-angled tube Supplied the means ,of
exploding the charge.
iji * ❖ ❖
“X.N.0.”; “Savile Row” (B. 2/11/’32)
is not quite correct in stating that the Prince
of Wales “was never at a preparatory or
public school as a youngster.” Osborne and
Dartmouth are indistinguishable in all but
technical matters from the leading schools
of England. The former is really a pre-
paratory and the latter a public school, and
the cadets are drawn from exactly the same
sources as supply the other institutions.
Both the Prince of Wales and the Duke of
York undoubtedly spent their “formative
years” in the Navy, though it is news to me
that a naval officer’s “accent” is the
same as the public-school variety. The num-
ber of different British nationalities repre-
sented in most wardroom and gunroom
messes would seem to me to preclude the
existence of an “R.N. officers’ accent” at' all.
After the Prince of Wales’s visit to the
IT.S.A. in 1919 he did acquire for a time an
American twang, but so did all of us who
were with him. In no case did it last long.
* sis si: . *
‘‘Clerk”: Harold Clapp is so pleased with
the results of welding five ordinary 45ft.
rails into one long 225 ft. rail that the prac-
tice will be extended. The four-mile St.
Hilda line has been completely equipped with
the long rails, and the elimination of the
rail joints has made travel much smoother
and more comfortable, as well as reducing
maintenance costs. The gloomy prophecies
that heat would make the attenuated steel
lengths buckle have not been realised,
although shade temperatures running as high
as 109 degrees have recently been experi-
enced. Tbe new St. Ivilda track looks like
being the railway track of the future.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: In the aeroplane science has
furnished a terrific weapon for putting-
pressure on native races. Not long since,
an African chief who had defaulted on a
fine found his kraal overshadowed by the
wings of Governmental fighting machines,
and a small army was transported by air
in a, few hours to the stronghold of an Arab
leader who had an objection to paying-
taxes. But when Rajah Brooke set out to
pacify Sarawak things were different.
Headhunting was an honorable obligation
imposed by custom on all self-respecting
Dyaks, and when Brooke wanted to suppress
it in one portion of his vast dominions he
had to use tribes from another district
who were equally addicted to the practice.
' fter a successful engagement the White
Rajah had to turn his blind eye t 0 the
enemy heads that were rolled into the
light of the campfire by his own exultant
followers. Hence he was ferociously
attacked by English humanitarians, and
Queen .Victoria refused to give him an audi-
ence. None the less when he and his
nephew, the second rajah, had finished their
work —though it took half a century—a
child could walk from one end of Sarawak to
the other and keep its head on its shoulders.
“Petty Officer Seaweed”: Let me assure
“F.S.” (B. 2/11/’32) that laziness is fairly
rare in the R.A.N., and certainly isn’t the
reason for a sailor growing a beard. The
matelot is obliged to seek permission from
his captain “to grow a set” —that is, a beard
and moustache; one must have both or no-
thing. If there is nothing in his
work which would make a beard dangerous
permission is readily granted. A patchy
growth which may tend to make its owner
look like a rich tramp may be removed if
the captain shares the general dislike to it;
otherwise the set must remain for three
months. The possessor of a good set en-
joys a certain kudos, whereas the unsuccess-
ful cultivator usually earns for himself a
Sobriquet which sticks long after he visits
the barber. One ancient petty officer in-
formed me that his reason for, growing a set
was ‘'‘to keep the blanky wimmen away!”
“Tom Cringle”: That reference to naval
beards (B. 2/11/’32) recalls that a genera-
tion ago they were as common in the serv-
ice as gold braid, whereas now a bearded
officer or man is the rare exception. The
pointed beard used to be specially affected
by torpedo officers, though doctors, now
known as surgeon-commanders or some-
thing of the sort, and even admirals were
apt to affect them. Another landmark of
the old navy which lias vanished, as far
as I know, is the broad-brimmed straw hat
which was worn on foreign stations or in
hot weather. The last ones I saw were
roofing the naval brigade in the South
African war which finished 30 years ago.
“C.Q.”: In Miller-street, North Fitzroy,
it is part of the daily routine of the small
boy to climb to the top of a 140 ft. chimney,
from which he enjoys a comprehensive view
of Batman’s city. The chimney belongs to a
disused municipal destructor, and the
juveniles make their way up by means of
iron brackets inside the edifice, which, as
it gets narrower, presents problems that
would daunt most grown-ups. Frenzied
parents.have appealed to the council for pro-
tection for their nerves, but every attempt
to fence the structure off has been circum-
vented. One mother has grown so accus-
tomed to seeing her six-year-old infant’s
smiling visage gazing down at her from the
dizzy summit of the chimney that she has
ceased to bother about him. It is an inter-
esting example of the principle of condition-
ing. The unconditioned child fears nothing.
When he has grown up and been duly con-
ditioned by the scare campaigns in the news-
papers, he learns to fear everything, from
germs to Communists.
* * * *
“F.C.H.” : From a library catalogue:
De Groot, J. Morgan—The Affair on the Bridge.
Now we shall have a full unvarnished
account of that little rumpus, you think?
No; the catalogue is a very old one; actu-
ally it was published by the Adelaide Circu-
lating library in 1909. Looks as if someone
was prophetic.
“Hy-Brasil” : Dunwich, on Peel Island, in
Moreton Bay (Q.), is a sort of Arcady with
fishing and surfing facilities. But even
among the veterans who are maintained
there by a kindly Government the craving
for a stimulant is occasionally felt. The
other day the authorities noted an epi-
demic of hilarity; investigation disclosed
that a member of the community was evolv-
ing “rum” from brown sugar and methylated
spirit. The latter is'very cheap, and the
practice of allowing Dunwich residents occa-
sional leave in Brisbane, and of permitting
weekly visits of friends and relations, has
lent itself to smuggling in the stuff. Dun-
wich is a dry area —in theory.
ON THE WESTERN FRONT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Yes, war is a ghastly curse,” he said;
“I need no books to tell
Me that” —and he gave a scornful grunt—
“ Muck like ‘All Quiet on the Western
Front.’
Old Sherman put it straight and blunt
With his simple ‘War is Hell.’ ”
And he hid his face in a foaming pint,
As one who seeks to drown
Grim memories more than a man may bear
Of searing scenes that the heartstrings tear.
And I vaguely wondered what they were
As the liquor gurgled down.
Was he back where shells at the Landing-
screamed ?
Or on Sinai sands perchance?
In that amber brew would he fain forget
The horrors faced in the trenches wet,
The fields that were soaked with blood and
sweat
Of the men who fought for France?
He seemed to answer my unspoke thought
As a long, long breath he drew.
“Too right,” he said, “I have done my bit,
And I wasn’t the sort to quail or quit
Till they called us off. But I’m full of it.
I’ll fight no more—l’m through.
“I was one who leapt to the war-drum’s
beat
In the hour of my country’s need.
O’er cattle pastures and jumbuck runs,
By plain and paddock, ’neath stars and suns,
We swung to the front with our Lewis guns,
We boys of the bulldog breed.
“And the chill of dawn and the noonday
haze,
They found us ambushed low.
Ready and steady through storm and shine,
We waited, ever alert for a sign
To herald a charging battle line
And the rush of a ruthless foe.
“But the blighters never would come in
range;
They were cunning and ware and fleet.
Bedouin tribesmen? Eh? Good Lord!
It wasn’t with men we gunners warred.
We were after the famished emu horde
That gobbles the cockie’s wheat.
“Could I stop another? Well, yes, I might;
For ours was a thirsty spell,
With little guerdon but gibes and girds,
And it’s added insult, you mark my words.
To get the bird when you’ve missed the
birds.
Say, war—all war—is Hell!”
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“In and Out”: I saw a sight the other
day calculated to make the “Tailor and
Cutter” cease publication and “Jeames” cry
aloud in his agony. It was a photograph of
a man on the Flemington lawn who wore a
morning-coat in combination with a bowler!
Furthermore, his waistcoat was of the same
hue as his suit, and not white, or lightly-
colored at least, as it should have been.
When one recalls that the “Tailor and
Cutter” called the Prime Minister to account
for obeying a command to wait on his Maj-
esty in the same nondescript costume, one is
led to wonder whether the influence of the
press is as widespread as is alleged.
* * * *
“Nakhoda” : In the next war an enemy is
not likely to raid the Cocos Islands again, as
the Emden did 18 years ago, to cut the sub-
marine cables. Attempts will be made instead
to drown the beam wireless with counter
waves, or perhaps the various belligerents
will let each other’s radios alone and merely
pick up messages. It was alleged during the
last war that our cables were tapped by
enemy cruisers, but this would be a physical
impossibility without the terminal stations
immediately discovering it. Radio, on the
other hand, can be tapped without either
sender or receiver being the wiser, though
it is asserted that methods, have been invented
which make this practically impossible.
Another development will be the use of radio
to influence the enemy in your favor. Stations
will belch forth propaganda in the hope that
it will be picked up by private listeners in
other countries. Thus each belligerent will
claim every battle as a victory for its side
and will fill the ether with reports of strikes,
riots, rebellions and mutinies in enemy coun-
tries. Most of it will be waste of good elec-
tricity, however, as local propaganda is
always likely to triumph over the imported.
The Soviet, wireless system has been pouring-
out this sort of thing for years without caus-
ing any particular disturbance.
* * * . *
“X.S.”: A feature of the Communist
demonstration that interrupted the evening
AFTERTHOUGHT.
“....Just come to think of it—can you cook?”
flow of moving-picture patrons in Mel-
bourne last week was the number
of intellectuals in it. One of the
leaders is a man of means who has one
of the most extensive libraries of sociological
literature in Victoria. Another is an opti-
cian, an ex-candidate for the Senate; an-
other, a University graduate; a fourth, a
woman journalist. Communism is, in
.short, in the same position as the
Labor movement was in its early stages.
The intellectual, having studied Karl
Marx and Engels in the security of his
study, is moved by idealism to seek an outlet
for his emotions. The only means of expres-
sion available is the party platform. When
the platform is transferred to a crowded
thoroughfare like Swanston-street and
attracts the attention of 100 uniformed
police, 50 plainclothes constables, 88 mem-
A THING TO BE ENCOURAGED.
PEG : “I’m going to do my bit, Dad. I’m having a dressmaker teach me how to cut out
frocks.”
DAD : “I don’t want you to go that far. But I think you might cut out cigarettes and
three-guinea hats.”
bers of the motor-cycle patrol, a number of
detectives, six police officers and 22 mounted
troopers, a situation is apt to develop out
of which the proletarians, having more direct
experience of the police, are more adept at
escaping than the intellectuals. When a
movement becomes established, and there-
fore no longer a movement but an institu-
tion, like trade-unionism, the average man
with purely selfish interests and no foolish
notions about idealism becomes important.
The type of leader who is now fitted for
survival is the member of the rank and
file with a little extra enterprise and busi-
ness ability; so the intellectual is scrapped.
If he lingers, on it is because he lias
become a cynic, has dropped his idealism
except for State occasions, and regards his
leadership as a job indistinguishable from
shopwalking. There are a few such cynical
intellectuals in the Labor party to-day, and
their attitude towards the Communist intel-
lectuals is that they are fools who don’t
even know how to keep out of gaol.
* * * *
“Retired Dip”: Three people were gone
through by pickpockets in Sydney while
boarding the same ferry steamer. In each
case the sufferer carried his
wallet in his hip-pocket,
which was simply asking to
be robbed. Hip-pockets
should be banned by law as
putting irresistible tempta-
tion in the way of folk in-
sufficiently expert to frisk
an inside breast pocket, or
one inside the waistcoat.
The safest repository I ever
heard of was confided to me
by a big punter. On the
racecourse he wore long
underdrawers tucked well
into his socks. When he
got a wad of notes, he
shoved it down inside the
front of these, and, short of
completely undressing him,
no one but himself could get
at it.
“Mercatus”: There are
many Australians without
honor in their own country
who are regarded as major
prophets abroad. One of
them is Myer Levy, formerly
of Melbourne. When the
War Office was left with mil-
lions of yards of silk Mons
Star medal-ribbon on its
hands, Levy took the lot for
a trifle and made a pile by
selling the stuff, with a few
additions, as Mons Star
braces. Then he bought up
the surplus army boots and
found a ready market for
them. Possibly his best turn
was the purchase of great
stocks of army boots for
one foot only. The uppers
being the same in both feet, he had the
soles removed and turned over at a trifling
cost so that they became pairs. The re-
sourceful Myer Levy is now rated in the
millionaire class.
* ❖ ❖ $
“Barangkali”: “Retired Volt” slips (B.
2/11/’32) when he states that the technical
difficulties of telephonic communication on
the deep-sea cables remain unsurmounted.
Owing to the consistently poor working of
the transatlantic wireless telephone, a
new type of loaded cable has been devised
for duplex telephonic working between
London and New York. The price for the
manufacture of the cable and its laying
exceeds four millions sterling. That the
cable co. should embark on such expense in
these times shows that it is confident of
having got hold of a good thing.
“Thakambau”: Fiji was the scene of an
unusual ceremony recently when the French
Consul presented Ratu J. L. V. Sukuna,
Government District Commissioner, with the
Medaille Militaire, which is the French
equivalent of the V.C. The Ratu was at
Oxford, in 1914, and tried to enlist in
the British Army,, which turned him down.
He thereupon joined the French Legion
Etrangere and served with it through
the war. The decoration was bestowed for
his conduct in a F'rench attack in Cham-
pagne, when only 35 men came back out of
2500 in a battalion. Many Fijians earned
the. ordinary war medals, but no other
achieved such a decoration as this.
* * * *
“Biltong”: Considerately enough, all the
reference books ignored the most spectacular
incident in Lord Methuen’s military career,
his capture at Klip Drift
in March, 1902. Delarey
charged and routed his
force, which was peril-
ously moving in two
parties, killed four Brit-
ish officers and 64 men,
wounded about twice as
many, seized five guns
and took prisoner an
officer of the highest
rank. The Boers, such
as were left in arms,
hadn’t much use or
accommodation for pris-
oners, even if they were
generals, at this stage—
peace was to be signed
within two months —but
Delarey won a deal of
kudos by his chivalrous
release of Methuen, who
had been wounded. A
single reverse like this is
sufficient to finish the
career of the ordinary
general, but the War
Office made a rare excep-
tion in Methuen’s case, and he was soon
holding high commands again, though there
was to be no more active campaigning.
* $ 3 $
“Oxmead”: In reply to a question in
the House of Reps., Latham disclosed the
interesting information that “Swindell’s
claim to the px-efix ‘Judge’ was based on
the simple fact that it was his Christian
name.” Obviously tli'fere is no law to pre-
vent a father having his offspring christened
Judge or Professor or Commodore or Vis-
count or anything elise, but it is quite
obvious that it may wrongfully suggest a
calling or a title. Sometimes this is an
advantage, but not always. I was at Ox-
ford with a young man whose sponsors
had bestowed on him the rather l unusual
front name of “Baron.” It is quite possible
that it would have secured him more con-
sideration from tradesmen if he had needed it,
but this was offset by unwelcome attentions
fi-om another source. He was pestered with
moneylenders’ circulars, of which he was
credited with receiving more than all the
rest of the college put together. Nothing
like a bizarre Christian name for creating
(and frequently sustaining) an illusion. '
* * * *
“Nikko”: I can throw a little light on the
cutting of the parson’s hair (B. 9/11/’32).
I knocked at the front door of our local
vicarage for ten minutes, and then wandered
round the side to investigate, as the house
was open to the winds. As I passed a small
balcony I heard a familiar voice say, “A
little shox-ter on the left, my dear”; and
peering through a bush I beheld the vicar,
seated, gazing into a hand-mirror, while Mrs.
Vicar wielded a large pair of scissoi’s. I
slunk away. A few days later the lady told
an admiring parish gathering that she
always cut the hair of her four youngsters;
she didn’t mention the vicar.
lit :i: :i: *
“Felo”: Tall buildings have been used for
self-destruction on many occasions (B.
9/11/’32). London Bi'idge went out of
fashion for suicides when the Monument was
built early in last century, until the balcony
at the top of that lofty memoi'ial was caged
in. Brooklyn Bridge, which, like our Syd-
ney one, runs high above the water, once
had a terrifying suicide roll, but it gradually
became declasse, and now a jump from it
is a rai’e happening. The Eiffel Tower in
Pai'is is another once popular way out which
is now neglected, and doubtless there ai'e
others.
❖ 3 $ 3
“Sixenate”: You may find men of every
calling in the N.S.W. police force. Only
the other day a constable in a Sydney court
produced a plan of a building and mentioned
that before becoming a policeman lie had
practised as an architect. And there are
other professions well l’epresented. A police-
man, attracted by the calls of a scared spin-
ster landlady to a house where the stork
had arrived prematurely, was able to render
effective assistance before a doctor, hastily
summoned, arrived. Congratulated by the
medico, he explained modestly that he had
nearly completed his course as a medical
student before joining the foi-ce. Not long
ago I saw a policeman deal in a workman-
like manner with a dog in a fit; it turned
out that he held a diploma in veterinary
science. And recently a constable, compli-
mented by a magistrate upon his infoi’ma-
tive description of certain stolen dresses
and their values, disclosed that he had been
a departmental manager in a big store. I
know of an ex-journalist, an ex-bootmaker
and an ex-chemist in the force.
& * * *
“Lao-dah” : Babu English is usually sup-
posed to reach its finest flower in India, but
this specimen comes from the correspond-
ence columns of a Singapore newspaper:—
“Sir, —With reference to the long-winded defence
put up by “A Member,” like a schoolmaster of the
elementary classes trying his ill-digested pedagogy
on a class of minors and pedantically laying down
precedure by categories a, b, c, etc., on the black-
beard, who had obviously, like Rip Van Winkle,
woke up from his long sleep in the Valley of Dead
Bones to find that the world has moved forward
considerably into channels incomprehensible to his
old-world mentality, it would seem an act of charity
to let him know first as serially as he had attempted
the very serious delinquencies of the Society’s Pre-
sident and Committee, following one another and
setting up most pernicious precedents to which the
Community as a whole has shown objection.”
A’ :1s 3
“S.T.S.” : A veiy old church in Adelaide
has “come back” after being a motor-gai’age.
Long ago it was Lutheran. Now a new
Apostolic Church, based on the teaching of
a Welsh revivalist, has grown big enough
to rescue the tabernacle from the motors.
The old name of “Zion” will hold good.
* * sis *
“Cine Ma” : An indispensable adjunct of
all Australian film-making coxxcerns nowa-
days is a library of noises. The assortment
of clatter covers almost the whole field of
audition and ranges from engines shunting
to lovers kissing. Some of the records
are in celluloid and some in gramophone
BUSINESS.
“I say, Mr. Brown, are you really in love
with Margaret?”
“Good gracious, why do you ask?”
“Well, it’s like this. Last night she said
she’d give half a qidd to know, an’ I’m
awfully hard up.”
form. The production of records is a
large-scale industry in England and America,
but the whole world is drawn oix for special-
ised noises. Just as there are conventions
about how an actor should light a cigarette
or blow his nose on the stage, so there are
conventions about noises in a sound film. An
exact replica of the actual noise is often
either impracticable or would not be recog-
nised as real by a movie audience. Thus an
actual recording of breakers on a beach
doesn’t seem a bit like the i-eal thing, whereas
small shot rolled on a drum convey the
requisite impi'ession satisfactorily. In a
recent seafaring film the wash of waves on
the deck, the trickle of water in the scuppers
and the hiss of the receding ocean were
obtained by the manipulation of a common-
place water-tap. These sounds were com-
bined with the visual film and were accepted
as thoroughly convincing by landgoing audi-
ences who had never heard the real thing.
A TOUGH CONTRACT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“His task had been to seek out gleams of truth
in a labyrinth of lies.”- —Justice liaise Rogers in
his report on tin hares and fruit machines.
-jike one who gropes in murky catacomb,
Or some vast cavern’s black expanse
surveys,
Seeking a gleam of light, among the gloom
To guide him to an exit from the maze;
Like one who spends laborious nights and
days
Toiling some specks of fact to disinter
From figments that appal and lies that
daze,
He sees himself —the Roy’l Commissioner.
For weeks on weeks, pent in a stuffy room,
Masses of testimony he assays,
And finds scant scent therein of flowers that
bloom—
The whiff is more of fish when it decays.
Falsehoods, half-truths, he balances and
weighs;
He battles with prevarication’s purr;
And how that glib Non mi recordo phrase
Must grate upon a Roy’l Commissioner!
When there are witnesses, one may assume,
Who’ll swear through two-inch boards (as
Gordon says),
Whom may a Rhadamanthus credit, whom?
The whole-time Ananias how appraise
From him who just occasionally strays
Into the paths of truth, or sans demur
When bidden answer Yes or No obeys?
Pity the harassed Roy’l Commissioner!
Faith, when tin hares have had a hectic
boom,
Or fruit machines have tottered to their
doom,
And someone in the turbid pools must
stir
And seek Cimmerian places to illume,
I’d hate to be a Roy’l Commissioner!
N.s.w.
IFPRD


a RAINCOAT with a
definite GUARANTEE
The ‘JACKEROO”
carries Pike Brothers’ guarantee to
keep out rain for TWELVE MONTHS.
The Jackeroo is smartly cut in a
single-breasted style with Raglan
Sleeves and full belt. It is obtain-
able in two colors: fawn and navy.
Send height and chest measurements
and state color preferred with order.
PRICE 45/-
Send your order to Desk S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
And at Longreacb, Toowoomba and Townsville.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP 4 *OO GOO 0 0
RESERVE FUND r?So m 2 10 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 IQ u
£13,778,02S 0 0
j DIT&CtOTS •
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman) _ T t a Ayi
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND,
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX. ™ 7rrr7DC „n
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted..
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars ot
Safe Rentals on application.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY"
November Issue Now on Sale
Is 4 p.c. Cheap Money?
Position of Banks.
Interest Rates and Share Prices.
Which Section Has Suffered
Most?
Trading Results Compared.
These and many other questions of
vital interest to investors will be
discussed in the November issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney. Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Australian industry lost an outstanding
figure in Samuel McKay, managing director of
the Sunshine Harvester factory, and presi-
dent of the Melbourne Chamber of Manu-
factures, who died last week in a Sydney
private hospital, at 60. He was a younger
brother of the late Hugh McKay, who
founded in 1885 the works that were to
play such a big part in Aiistralian develop-
ment. Samuel McKay joined his brother
after his return from the Boer War, where
he served with the Ist Australian Bush-
men’s Contingent, and became manager of
the big enterprise, where his keen business
capacity was soon in evidence. He travelled
all over the world between 1902 and 1913
to establish branches in other countries,
making repeated trips to the Argentine and
also visiting France, North Africa and
Russia. He left for Canada last May as
one of the advisers to the Australian dele-
gation at Ottawa. His health broke down
on the way back, and he reached Sydney
only to enter hospital. He leaves a widow
and two sons, one already in the Sunshine
business, the other at college.
Angela Selina Blanca St. Clair Erskine,
whose petulant criticism of N.S.W. Gov-
ernor Game in a recently-published travel
book has aroused amused interest, comes of a
stock noted for its unusualness. She is a
sister of the present Earl of Rosslyn, father
of the Lord Loughborough whom Sheila
Chisholm, of Sydney, wedded aforetime, only
to divorce him. The belted Earl has himself
lived up to the family tradition. After Eton,
Oxford and the Blues, he tried his luck on
the stage, but made a poor fist of it. Ser-
vice in irregular regiments in the South
African War followed, and he earned men-
tion in dispatches by being twice captured
by the Boers. His crowning achievement
was the working out of a system for break-
ing the bank at Monte Carlo. He was
heavily financed by his friends and the
public, but the venture proved as unsuccess-
ful as others to which he had put his hand.
Lady Selina, who is in the 60’s, has also
had her matrimonial troubles.
MAEGRAITH'S impression of JARDINE
waiting to bat.
Congratulations on his Senate Presidency
reached Paddy Lynch from all parts of the
world, some of them from old mates of West-
ralian goldfields days, now scattered far and
wide. One of the senders, who prefaced
his greetings with a cutting from The
Bulletin, was H. Beech, of Vancouver
(8.C.), who worked with Lynch on the
Lake View 30-odd years ago. Beech did
pretty well across the seas, becoming a
Cold Commissioner (Warden) on the Brit-
ish Columbian fields, a position from which
he retired three years ago. As an old Aus-
tralian Laborite he mentions that there is
no political Labor party in Canada, the
American Federation of Labor being agamst
any political action by trades unionists be-
yond wringing concessions from whatever
party happens to be in office.
The judicial Bench has at least one
first-class cricketer of other days in Judge
Moule, who discharged a Melbourne jury
last Friday with the remark: “You are
lucky, gentlemen; you will be able to go
to the cricket now, but I must remain
here. The score is three for 123.” His
Honor, now 74, formed one of Murdoch’s
team in 1880 and took part in the very
first “Test” in England. Old records men-
tion him as a particularly safe and speedy
fieldsman.
Latham Withall,
the man behind the
Australian show-
boat idea, left
farming in the
West to join the
A.I.F. as a pri-
vate, and got his
majority during
his two and a half
years in France.
When Uncle Sam
came in ho was
the Australian
chosen to share
with other Allied
officers in the job
of instructing the
Doughboy in the
art of trench war-
fare. On his re-
turn to Australia
he became assist-
ant-sec. to the Vic.
Chamber of Manu-
factures, and as
its tariff officer is
expected to handle
all tariff matters,
from toothpicks to
tractors, at a
moment’s notice.
At 65 Galsworthy
has bagged the
Nobel prize for
literature; it went
to Kipling a quarter
of a century ago,
and to Yeats in
1923, a fine im-
partiality having
always distin-
guished the Scan-
dinavian j udge s.
The Swedish Aca-
demy of Literature
picks the author
tvliom it regai'ds as
most deserving;
the Stockholm
LATHAM
WITHALL, of Vic.
Chamber of Manu-
factures, the parent of
the Australian Show-
boat idea.
Academy of Science looks after the
physics "and chemistry awards; the Stock-
holm Faculty of Medicine chooses an-
other winner, and the Peace prize is
in the hands of the Norwegian Storthing.
The prizes were originally to be worth about
£BOOO apiece; their value for. foreigners has
fluctuated since along with rates ot
exchange. Galsworthy, who was trained for
the law but never practised, published his
first book in 1898.
Sidney Jenkinson, one ot the “Argus’
stalwarts for nearly 40 years before his
retirement in 1923, passed on at 81 last week.
He was day sub., and was noted, among
other things, for his tactful handling of all
callers, so that those who came with com-
plaints and grievances always left entirely
satisfied. All the “Argus ’ heads and a big
bunch of other friends stood by the grave-
side,
Philip Roussell, who succeeded H. H.
Sterling as g.m. of M.L. railways, last
December had less than a year’s, service m
his new post; he had a heart seizure while
travelling by train from Wellington to Auck-
land and died a few hours after arriving in
the northern city. Roussell spent his whole
working life as a railway man, joining the
service as a cadet. He went to headquarters
eight years ago as chief clerk, and became
successively secretary of the Board of Railway
Control, general superintendent of transpor-
tation, and manager. He was well liked in
the service, being a fair-minded and kind y
man, and on his last journey back to Wel-
lington the train was met at each station
by a little deputation of railway men, bear-
ing wreaths. Fifty-five at the last mile-
stone.
A. W. Fadden is the moving spirit in the
latest movement to make Mackay (Q.) a
seaport; at present it is an open roadstead,
much the same as Townsville was before Bob
Pliilp spent half a million of borrowed money
on it. Fadden started working life as a
messenger boy in the mill secretary s office at
Pleystowe. his boss being the late 1 ercy
Smith. Smith helped him get a better job
in the Town Clerk’s office, and soon he was
Town Clerk—he did great things for the
town during and after the flood of 1918 and,
incidentally, turned down the offer of an
honorarium for it. Next he made a study of
taxation, set up as an accountant and built
a solid business. He won the Kennedy seat
in the Assembly last June.
Jim Hebbard, the first mining man of any
tonnage to run a rule over The Granites,
the (more or less) goldfield in Centralia, is
about the toughest warrior in the game. A
Victoria-trained youth he somehow got to
Broken Hill in time to be the first shift-boss
on the B. H. Prop.’s staff —and that was
just on 50 years ago. Then he became
manager of the B. H. Junction, and threw
that in because a steady job in the Mines
Department looked better. He scouted
around N. S. Wales as a mining inspector
for years, until the Sulphide Corp. offered
him * twice as much money to become its
underground manager. That was his biggest
job. and he might have been therq, still if
a fire underground hadn’t shut the show
down for a year or two. Since then Hebbard
has been rushed off to nearly every new dis-
covery and alleged discovery in Australia and
New Guinea ; and when the discomforts of
travel are mentioned, he asks what those
things are. Between times he has made a
hobby of training choirs and raking up the
best collection of Cousin Jack yarns in
Australia.
Brisbane’s best-known waterfront figure,
G. F. Weatherlake, northern manager of
the Orient Line, was one of those thorough
men who always had to see the job done
himself. He was on the wharf to see every
Orient boat in and safely out again; and
it was because he had to give an eye to
the loading that he was climbing around
the Orontes the other day when he slipped,
fell 50ft. down the hold and was dying
when picked up. A Sydney boy—a product
of Sydney High School —he had an excep-
tional all-round knowledge of the shipping-
business, and had many times been chair-
man of the Overseas Association in his
State.
D. P. (“Passmore”) Viles, whose death
in Brisbane is reported, must have been one
of the last of the mining identities of the
Queensland gold boom of the ’eighties. He
was chiefly identified with the Croydon field,
where he carried on business as a broker
and mining secretary, his name being per-
petuated in the group known as the Viles
Croydon Block, which is itself now only
a name. When Croydon petered out, he
went to Townsville and turned auctioneer.
A native of Sydney, he was in his day a fine
all-round athlete.
Mention Australian-grown rice to Bob
Hankinson, the alert little C.P. representa-
tive for Murrumbidgee in the N.S.W. Leg.
Assembly, and you will soon know what real
enthusiasm is. Hankinson is the House’s
authority on the commodity, nowadays
largely grown on the irrigation area, and
he was chairman of the first Rice Marketing
Board in N. S. Wales. A native of Eden-
hope (Vic.), he began life as a farmer, but
later opened a store at Narrandera. He still
has interests there, and at Ganmain, Grong
Grong and Matong. He has long been
interested in local government, and Narran-
HANKINSON, of Murrumbidgee.
dera thought so much of him that it made
him Mayor seven times. Bob said thank
you 'with a fountain for the memorial gar-
dens and a four-dial, electrically-driven
clock. After being also a co-opted mem-
ber of the Producers’ Advisory Council, he
was invited to run for the Riverina Federal
seat, and was narrowly defeated by H. K.
Nock, a fellow-C.P. candidate. Seven
months later he was on the hustings again
in opposition to Flannery, whom he un-
seated in fine style'.
Major-General Sir William Salmond,
dead in England at 92, must have been one
of the few survivors of the Indian Mutiny
of 1857, in which he served as a Sapper
subaltern. His later service included the
Egyptian campaign of 1882 and the Boer
war at the end of the century. Perhaps
his most notable feat was achieving the
paternity of the two senior officers of the
Royal Air Force, Air-Marshal Sir John
Salmond and Air-vice-Marshal Sir Geoff-
rey Salmond. As a winning double that is
probably unique.
"PAT”— the Nau[?]b of Pataudi, of the
English cricket team.
James Sloane, passed out at 75, was one
of the family which pioneered the Mulwala
district, in the Riverina. As a sheep judge
he had a State-wide reputation, and was
an authority on the Australian blacks, their
customs, habits and implements. His three
sons saw service in France; one, who was
in the Air Force, was killed whilst flying.
“P L” • Touching John Ford Paterson
(B 9/il'/’32), Betty and Esther were his
nieces, daughters of his brother Hughie.
John Ford was a bachelor.
Brisbane has lost Joseph Allen, who made
a fortune in the produce business and did
notable work for the soldiers during the war
He was chairman of the relief committee ot
the State patriotic fund, which distributed over
£5OO 000, later representing the McCaughey
bequest in Queensland. A noted churchman
and Freemason, on the lighter side he
was one of the builders of the Queensland
Cricket Association, being chairman tor
years and also chairman of the Board ot
Control.
Wilson Macaulay, of the Camberwell Pres-
byterian Church, will succeed R. W. McLean
as Vic. Moderator next May. He was chap-
lain of the 3rd Brigade of the A.I.F. Twenty-
four years ago lie was ordained at East r re
mantle.
“Uramao”: Just notched her 90th year
at New Plymouth (M.L.), Mrs, James
Rutherford, mother of the distinguished
scientist, Lord Rutherford of Nelson ihe
venerable lady, who still enjoys good health,
arrived in M.L. 68 years ago, and was
married in 1866. She lived in Taranaki
till the Maoris went on the rampage, when
she left for Nelson, where her son Ernest
was born at Brightwater.
Retired last week, after 47 years in the
NSW Department of Justice, more than
half of them as a stipendiary magistrate,
William J. Camphin. Like every good
police-court magistrate, he knew a good
deal about human nature as well as law,
and the only regret he expressed when he
called it a day was that men like himselt,
still sound in body and mind, weren t re-
tained until 70—as indeed many profitably
might be. Charles Dickens s son Henry
Common Sergeant at the Old Bailey, was 83
when he retired this year.
Spencer Brodney, editor of “Current His-
tory,” New York, is an Australian who
has made good overseas. A Scotch College
boy and Melbourne Uni. graduate, he soon got
n footing in Fleet-street journalism; then
he went to New York, returning to Aus-
tralia for a short period ten years ago.
His present responsible position with the
New York “Times” establishment has given
full scope for his literary ability. He has
had plays produced both in London and
New York.
There were few better-known Vincemtians
in Australia than the late Brother Daniel
Collins, who passed out the other day at
72. “Brother Dan,” as he was known to
thousands of ex-pupils, was for 40 years
a teacher in Vincentian schools and colleges.
When the order was given charge of St.
Stanislaus College at Bathurst in 1888 he
came with the priests _ from Ireland who
formed the initial teaching staff.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ . £
1922.. 53,504 Nil 63,504 778,006
1923.. 30-1,950 30 p.c. =: 180,000 124,980 902/985
1924.. 736,066 40 „ „ 340,000 396,060 1,299.1)51
1925.. 939,262 76 „ „ 625,000 414.262 1,713,313
1926.. 782,106 95 „„ 665,000 1 „ „
Written off £16,493 ( 1,813,926
1927.. 529,038 75 p.c. = 525,000 4,038 1,817,964
1928.. 369,882 40 „ „ 280,000 89,882 1,907,846
1929.. 528,646 42| „ „ 297,500 231,146 2,138,992
1930.. 275,663 50 ~ ~ 350,000 ■ — 2,064,655
1931.. 103,571 8f „ „ 61,250 42,321 2,106,976
1932.. 205,752 25 „ „ 175,000 30,752 2,137,728
The two outstanding features of the latest
accounts are a spring of £102,181 in net
earnings and a contraction of £136,787 in
the more or less liquid surplus. The im-
provement in earnings was due largely to
surpluses accruing from metals taken into
account at a low figure (£l2 12s. per ton
for lead and Is. 2d. an ounce for silver in
Australian currency) at June 30, 1931. The
London spot average for lead continued to
fall:—
Silver
Average— Lead. (fine). Zinc.
5 years June, 1929. . £2O/8/- 2/6.9 £3O/7/1
12 months June, 1930' 20/19/6 1/10.9 20/15/5
12 . months June, 1931 14/16/1 1/3.8 13/13/2
12 months June, 1932 12/16/7 1/6.4 12/18/9
Nevertheless, exchange made lead worth on
the average £l6 6s. lid. in Australian
notes as against £l5 ss. Bd. for the preced-
ing term. Yet the co. was unable to sell
its entire output—stocks of lead at June 30
(27,620 tons) were 3128 tons heavier than
at the previous balance—and the sales that
were made during the June quarter were
below cost of production. Lead then aver-
aged £l3 6s. 4d. in Australian currency;
the figure was £l4 12s. 2d. for the four
months to the end of October.
The year’s sales plus products on hand
(£645,069) were £160,107 better. Exes.
(£575,526) took £46,721 of the increase.
Returns from the co.’s £1,267,029 of invest-
ments, of which £285,500 is deposits and
Government securities and the balance
mainly shares in associated enterprises, were
£22,563 lighter at £136,209 (= 3s. lid. per
share). Thus, allowing for reserve adjust-
ments, there was enough to show ss. lid. per
share; ss. of it was distributed.
An extra 12,983 tons of crudes was
treated, and the ore contained about the
same percentage of lead and silver, but a
trifle less zinc, the assay being 15 p.c. lead,
lO.loz. silver and 11.7 p.c. zinc. Thus the
output of concentrates expanded:—
Ore , -Concentrates
Treated , Lead , Zinc ,
Tons. Tons. Assay. Tons. Assay.
1930.. 452,295 94,330 64.0 p.c. 75,910 49.3 p.c.
1931.. 293,069 59,990 72.5 „ 13,730 51.6 .
1932.. 306,052 61,430 73.6 „ 58,140 52.5 „
Zinc concentrates, production of which was
suspended for the nine months to April 21.
1931, are now sold under contract to the
Electrolytic ,Co. and Imperial Smelting
Corp. The most notable feature is the im-
provement in the grade of concentrate. This
followed introduction of the “all-flotation”
process, and, of course, has helped to reduce
costs:—
. , 1930. 1931. 1932.
Crudes raised, tons.. 450,157 292,825 306,644
Mining .. .. 245. 8.2 d. 18s. 9.9 d. 18s. 10.2 d.
Development . . 2s. 2.7 d. 2s. 0.3 d. 2s. 5.3 d
Mining • • • • 10s. 9.3 d. 10s. l.Od. 9s. 3.3 d.
375. 8.2 d. 30s. 11.2 d. 30s. 6.8 d.
The drop in mining costs since 1930 is due
to the agreement with the union which pro-
vides for a basic wage of 7s. 6d. above the
declared rate for the State. Since this
declared rate has fallen below £4 2s. 6d., the
union has given two months’ notice of ter-
mination of the contract, and negotiations
are now in train for a new agreement.
The year’s outlay on the new mill and
the new shaft added £167,539 to the book
value of the mine and plant (£1,301,719).
More or less liquids were drawn upon for
£136,787 net for the purpose:—
Assets other than 1928. 1931. 1932
mine and plant £1,702,970 £1,774,679 £1,662,988
Liabilities .. 132,687 101,784 126,980
Net liquid assets £1,570,283 £1,672,795 £1,536,008
The new mill was put into commission on
Nov. 1, and the new shaft is nearing com-
pletion ; it is being put down to cheapen
from the big body between 1700 ft.
and 2150 ft. at the northern end of the lode.
The present estimate of ore reserves in the
North mine (3,200,000 tons) excludes any-
thing below 1700 ft. There is at least an-
other million tons in the British and Junc-
tion sections awaiting treatment when
prices and costs make stone assaying 11.8
p.c. lead, 6.70 z. silver and 8.6 p.c. zinc
profitable to the co.
The pound shares, which dropped to 27s
9d. m the market in 1930, now fetch 765.
The investor at 765. who looks for his money
back plus 8 p.c. over 20 years counts on
divs. averaging nearly 50 p.c.
Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.
/ Dividends .
Pref. To
Sept, Profits. (6J p.c.) Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ fi.
1925. 80,872 8125 13| p.c.= 51,250 21,497 52,112
Premium on shares, £12,500 .. 39,612
RgS6I'VPS.
1926. .191,858 8125 16 p.c. = 83,625 100,108 60,496
1927. .201,194 8125 23 „ ~126,500 66,569 127,065
1928. .219,245 8125 ,,140,250 70,870 197,935
1929. .265,837 8125 28 ~,,154,000 103,712 301,647
Reserves capitalised (one ord. for two),
£275,000 .. .. .. 26,647
1930. .223,578 8125 22 p.c.=156,367 59,086 85 733
19.31.:. 147.934 8125 9„ „ 98,316 41,493 127,226
Added goodwill, £52,000 . . . . 75 226
1932.,.191,105 8125 10 p.c.=110,000 72,980 148,206
The not Addition of £52.000 to goodwill, rais-
ing the intangible to £250,000, not treated as
an asset herein, was on account of liquidation
of two of the subsidiaries—Pictorial News-
papers Pty. and United Press Pty. Their
assets now appear in the parent’s sheet under
their appropriate headings. The pups’ own
reserves were written off their respective
goodwill items before the figures were incor-
porated. The idea was to reduce overhead.
Visibly the spring in the year’s gross earn-
ings (£252,121) was £13,637. The reduction
in exes. (£114,690) was £10,860, leaving the
profit claimed £24,497 better at £137,431.
That was after _ £11,500 had been dropped
from somewhere into the general reserve, and
£42.174 had been added to the allowance for
depreciation, making it £297,174, which the
“Wild Cat” has treated as provision in excess
of current requirements for the purpose.
Thus, including the additions, there was
enough to pay the pref. div. and show 16.6
p.c. on ord. capital as against 12.7 p.c. and
30.3 p.c.. for the two preceding years. The
div., which had been lowered from 22 p.c.
in ’3O to 9 p.c. in ’3l, was lifted a point
to 10 p.c.
And 10 p.c. is worth a lot more to old
holders. Over the last eight years £815.594,
including £400,000 of bonus scrip, has been
added to paid capital, raising it to £1.225.000
in 125,000 prefs. and 1.100,000 ords. Also,
half a point has been added to the pref. div.
(now 64 p.c.), the ords. have averaged 18.4
p.c., and, in place of a deficit of £103.546
after the reconstruction in 1924, there are
reserves now £148,206 in excess of goodwill.
Impressed by these performances and the
fact that the “Herald,” chief money-spinner
of the group, still enjoys its monopoly of the
evening field, the market prices the ords. at
58s. 6d. as against 31s. 6d. a couple of years
ago. At 58s. 6d. the return is 3.5 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis, or 5.1 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
distribution. The prefs. at 255. 6d. return
5.1 p.c. Subject to goodwill in sharehold-
ings, the not tangible cover is £lO 19s. prefs..
and 225. Bd. ords.
The liquidation of the subsidiaries (share-
holdings were reduced by £202,433) and the
purchase of W. H. Rocke and Co.’s' Oollins-
street freehold (£48,510 net was added to the
property item) were mainly responsible for
movements in balance-sheet figures :
1920. 1930. 3 931. 1932.
Stock. ..£108,087 £138,854 £104,679 £147,823
Debtors, etc. 56,890 87,752 89,116 180 219
War Loans 70,389 _2
Shares in
other cos. 100 451,712 478,315 275 882
Cash . . 27,621 79,914 92,172 58,361
Liquids. . £263,087 £758,232 £764,282 £662,285
Liabilities 91,782 135,361 103,657 128,955
Surplus. . £171,305 £622,871 £660,625 £533,330
Freeholds,
etc. . . 73,645 328,373 331,711 380,221
Machinery -*V*
and plant 45,796 435,513 445,513 518,507
Net assets £290,746 £1,386,757 £1,437,849 £1,432,058
Excluding shareholdings. the more or
less liquid surplus (£257,448) improved
£75,138 during the twelvemonth. Incident-
ally, the co. has secured a 50-year concession
over 200 sq.. miles of eucalyptus forests from
the Tasmanian Government with a view to
the manufacture of newsprint; but erection
of a mill has not yet been decided upon.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
r~ Dividends .
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Written Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. 7 $ p.c. 10 p.c. Off. serves.
Aug., £ £ £ £ £ £
1922.. 50,060 9,000 13,125 20,000 5,131 144 404
1923.. 55,879 9,000 13,125 20,000 5,485 152^673
1924.. 69,976 10,723 13,125 22.861 4,982 170,958
1925. . 70,496 12,000 13,125 25,000 4.980 186,349
1926.. 67,826 12,000 13,125 25.000 5,126 198 924
1927.. 77,998 15,647 13,125 32,195 5,668 210,287
1928.. 78,002 17,507 13,125 34,532 5,732 217 393
1929.. 76,468 18,000 18,507 38,312 8,135 210’,907
Profit on sale of freeholds, £8024 .. 218,931
3 p.c.
1930.. 37,427 18,000 21,508 12,223 10,278 194,349
Loss.
1931.. 46,070 Nil Nil Nil 10,311 137,968
1932.. 34,956 Nil Nil Nil 9,174 93,838
Few are feeling the pinch more acutely than
that section of the furniture and furnishing-
drapery trade which had developed a large
turnover on a t.-p. basis. Moreover, Marcus
Clark went substantially into debt to finance
the erection of new premises, which are in
excess of trade requirements at the moment,
and the old property remains on the co.’s
hands; also the subsidiaries, in which the
co. has invested £310,524 in shares, have
become a sick lot. Thus, after the ords.
had enjoyed a long run of 10 p.c. divs. with
satisfactory margins, reserves had to be
tapped for £24,582 to pay the pref. divs. and
3 p.c. to the ords. in 1930. Including the
allowance for depreciation, shown as written
off in the table, a loss of £56,381 was regis-
tered in the following year, when the spread
of unemployment' brought a crop of bad
debts, while turnover fell away and receding
prices caused trouble with stocks.
The same factors in varying degrees
affected the figures for the 12 months cov-
ered by the latest accounts. Improvement
was reported in the drapery department, but
the furniture section gave trouble again.
Thus, after taking stocks into account at
£44.103 below the 1931 figure, the gross
profit on trading was no more than £1062.
Divs., etc (£7937), were £1461 lighter, and
exes. (£53,129, including depreciation) were
pulled back £7547, leaving a net loss of
£44,130, which was £12,251 less than the
previous year’s. That reduced reserves to
£93,838, and their existence depends en-
tirely upon the value placed upon the assets
in the books.
Here is the position as the published
figures show it
1921. 1930. 1931. 1932.
£ & £ £
Paid capital. . 525,000 1,035,077 1,035,369 1,035,373
Mortgages . . 57,500 287,500 463,938 466 926
Other debts.. 311,874 304,195 110,714 120,710
Freeholds . . 154,758 560,889 560,989 600 208
Leaseholds . . 65,677 59,970 57,768 32’377
Plant, etc.. . 24,080 91,418 85,336 81,’343
Stock 320,325 246,584 207,330 163,227
Book debts. . 337,177 565,325 520,595 523,961
Shares i n
other cos... 119,689 310,519 310,519 310,524
Cash, etc. .. 35,234 6,447 5,452 5,207
During the year the co. bought the lease-
hold portion of its headquarters at a “satis-
factory price.” Thus leaseholds were re-
duced by £25,391, while £39,219 was added
to freeholds and £12,984 net to the outside
debt. The doubtful items are debtors’
balances, to which £3366 was added, and
shares in other cos. A new Aloratorium Act
in N.S.W. may make the position of mort-
gagees, etc., less obscure; at present the co.
does not know definitely where it stands in
respect of its book debts. Shareholdings, which
figure at approximately face value, consist
mostly of ords. in Bon Marche and Marcus
Clark (Vic.) ; the latter controls Craig
AVilliamson (Melbourne) and Miller Ander-
son, (Adelaide). There is a contingent
liability of £45,000 in respect of uncalled,
capital.
The parent has issued 300,000 first 6 p.c.
and 207,848 second 74 p.c. prefs. and
439,580 ords. The prefs.” rank in the order
stated. _ Allowing for the statutory cut,
there will be over £90,000 coming to them
in accrued divs. at the close of next accounts.
The market prices the firsts at 9s. 9d.;
seconds, 6s. 6d; ords., 4s. 3d.
Robert Reid and Co., Ltd.
i Dividends .
( —Prefs.—^
Profits. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
July, £ £ £ £ £
1922.. 35,457 14,000 20,204 5 p.c.=30,452 64,448
Inner reserves disclosed, £30,452.. 94 900
1923. .141,458 14,000 20,000 10 p.c.=60,903 14L455
1924.. 99,676 14,000 20,000 10 „ „ 60,903 146 228
1925.. 76,730 14,000 20,000 7 „ „ 36,542 152,416
Inner reserves disclosed, £15,226 .. 167,642
1926.. 41,780,14,000 20,000 5 p.c. =30,452 144,970
1927. , 66,453 14,000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 146,971
1928. 64,240 14,000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 146,759
1929.. 44,673 14,000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 126,980
June, 5
1930* i 30,577 13,272 18,972 Nil 125,313
Loss. .
1931.. 83,845 14,000 15,000 Nil 7,468
ynaH'W** ; Deficit
1932.. 72,731 I Nil Nil Nil 65,263
i f SSSg months, 12 days.
Trade and other developments have left the
business overcapitalised. So the board
worked down stocks and debtors’ balances,
with a view to reducing the capital liabili-
ties. The debentures (£150,000, held in
London) have been paid off, but reconstruc-
tion of the share capital account (£1,059,035
in 200,000 first 7 p.c. and 250,000 second
S p.c. prefs. and 609,035 ords.) remains in
abeyance. The board’s proposal to make the
prefs. non-cumulative, chop 2 p.c. off their
divs., return 10s. and Bs. per share respec-
tively, and to issue 4-J p.c. deposit warrants
in respect of ss. per share of the ord. capital
was rejected, chiefly on account of the non-
cumulative and deposit warrant provisions.
Thereupon the pref. shareholders appointed
committees, one in Melbourne and the other
in Sydney, to draw up a scheme acceptable
to all parties. The two committees have agreed
that (1) the present fixed rates of divi-
dend should be reduced by 2 p.c.; (2) the
rights to the. reduced rates should remain
cumulative with (3) the additional right
to advance with the ords. beyond these
rates up to the old contract rates. The ques-
tions on which agreement has not yet been
reached are (1) whether arrears of dividends
should be cancelled, and (2) the amount of
capital to be returned to the firsts and
seconds respectively. One way of compen-
sating the prefs. for foregoing arrears of
dividends would be to give them an equity
in surplus. earnings to the extent of such
arrears (about £73,000 at .Tune 30 next) in
the event of liquidation. The exact propor-
tion of capital that should be now returned
is largely a matter of expediency; hence the
board’s judgment in this respect cannot be
lightly disregarded. At the annual meeting it
was said that £170,000 was available, or
£5OOO less than a return of 10s. and ss. to
the firsts, and seconds respectively would
call for.
After a revaluation of debtors’ balances,
the. position as the published accounts show
it is as follows:
1929. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Ord. capital. . £609,035 £609,035 £609,035 £609,035
Pref. capital.. 450,000 450,000 450,000 450,000
Debentures, etc. 150,469 150,000 150,000
Mortgages . . 82,387 77,286 77,286 77,162
Overdrafts, etc. 203,454 156,973 107,293 101 992
Creditors . . 219,080 138,928 145,484 165,630
Properties . 236,104 232,761 232,802 231,411
Plant, etc. . . 76,823 74,097 70,697 69,582
Stocks.. .. 913,054 787,447 499,507 387,787
Book debts . . 649,552 615,474 562,162 443,167
Investments, cash
etc 100,714 102,445 284,525 311,311
Thus, when the books last closed, stocks and
debtors’ balances together (£830,954) ex-
ceeded all outside liabilities by £486,170.
Cash (£219,372), Government securities
(£13,377) and other investments (£78,562)
totalled £311,311. This was sufficient to
return the whole of the first pref. capital
and over Bs. per share to the second prefs.
as well; but that is disregarding what the
co.’s future cash requirements are likely
to be.
The market prices the firsts at 16s. and
the seconds at 14s. 3d. Allowing for the
repayment of 10s. and ss. per share respec-
tively, the return at these prices would
be 8.3 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis for the firsts
and 9.7 p.c. on the basis of a 6 p.c. div.
for the seconds. Together these divs. would
then call for £16,250 p.a.
Last year’s trading resulted in a loss of
£12,209 as against a loss of £88,845 in the
previous year. In addition exchange on the
repayment of debentures cost the co. £16,653
and £43,869 was written off for bad debts!
etc. Thus the balance was struck at £72 731
on the wrong side, leaving £65,263 of the ord
capital unrepresented by tangibles at June 30
That leaves out of the reckoning the depre-
ciation fund (£47,250) and pensions reserve
(£57,520). The ord. capital, which is held
privately, will be written down to the extent
considered necessary.
Since the close of accounts subsidiaries
have been formed to take over and operate
the various departments of the business on
specialty lines. Greater efficiency and sav-
ings in overhead are anticipated.
Allied Motor Interests (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 77,431 p.c. = 74,925 2,506 2.506
1925.. 129,056 20 „ ~ 85,629 43 427 45 933
1926.. 94,777 17* „ ~ 74,925 19.852 65 785
Written off shares in subsidiary, £6B 766 )
1927.. 34,688 Nil ' 34,688 1 31 > 707
1928.. 1,098 Nil 1,098 32,805
1929.. 2,142 Nil 2,142 34,947
r . , . .... . Deficit.
Interests in subsidiaries written down,
£249,024 . . . . . . . . 214 077
10s. per share struck off capital, £ 214,077 '
Loss.
1930.. 1,304 Nil Ivor
1931.. 7,484 Nil R 7 B B
1932.. 2,505 Nil _ ij’293
Hard to say where shareholders are. At
July 31 their £245,758 of capital, together
with £42,423 held on deposit, was repre-
sented by cash (£54,891) and shares m sub-
sidiaries (£190,867) over whose figures tne
veil is kept drawn. With the exception ot
Commercial Vehicles Pty (in liq-)» these
shares are shown at face value; and the
accumulated losses of the pups have not been
brought into the parent’s accounts, the audi-
tor says. Last year’s loss of £2505 (it lett
the apparent net book value of the assets
£11,293 short of paid capital at July 31)
was merely the parent’s own administrative
exes., including £lOOO for loss on account
of Commercial Vehicles Pty.
Most of the £190,867 at which shares in
other cos. appear is represented by scrip m
Ituskin Motor Bodies Pty. Others in the
group are Autocar Industries, All-British
Motor Co., Olympia Motors and Tarrant’s
Motors. Not only is the extent of the losses
of the subsidiaries an important matter, but
much also depends upon the present volume
of their outside liabilities.
For the three years to the end of July,
1926, the parent paid divs. totalling 55 p.c.
Then the Ford agency was lost, trading con-
ditions altered and the pups quickly became
a sick lot—much sicker than the parent’s
accounts ever suggested. When the veil was
lifted in 1929, combined figures disclosed
accumulated losses of £196,680 and £39,507
of goodwill. There was then no less than
£483,829 coming to creditors, including the
hank (£303.168). More or less liquids
totalled £367,020. The intangibles were
rubbed out by writing off half the capital,
reducing it to its present figure.
The market now speculates in the fully-
paid 10s. shares at Is. 7d.
Joe Gardiner, Ltd.
To Re-
July. Loss. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
1922.. 2?055 Nil & 17,249
Reserves
Assets written up, £43,375 . . 26,126
Profits.
1923.. 11,804 10 p.c. = 8000 3804 29,930
1924.. 18,364 15 „ „ 12,000 6364 36,294
Prefs. Ords.
p.c. p.c.
1925.. 5,189 10 5 7,500 33,983
1926.. 17,182 12* 20 14,750 2432 36,415
1927.. 23,658 12i 20 14,750 8908 45,323
1928.. 21,465 12i 20 14,750 6715 52,038
1929.. 20,018 12j 20 14,750 5268 57,306
1930.. 8,529 I'O 24 8,500 29 57,335
Loss.
1931.. 19,966 Nil Nil 37,369
1932.. 9,596 Nil Nil 27,773
Slump hit this energetic concern, which
runs a chain of bootshops, just as it sold its
old Barlow-street warehouse and w 7 as putting
up a new seven-storeyed headquarters in
George-street. The inevitable dislocation
hastened the fall in turnover, which was
accelerated by fierce competition and price-
cutting, while interest on the debt and the
cost of leases entered into during the boom
pressed heavily upon reduced earnings,
notwithstanding that a little relief has been
gained . from statutory reductions. Thus
losses instead of profits have sliowui up for
the last two years, and both lots of share-
holders have gone hungry.
When Edward Fay, Ltd., was given con-
trol with 10,000 ords. bought, from Joe Gar-
diner himself in 1924, the balance of the
ords. (70,000) were converted into 10 p.c.
cum prefs., with the right to an extra 24
p.c. /when the ords. got 20 p.c. or more;
and a regular 12J p.c. and 20 p.c. respec-
tively were paid for the four years to the
close of accounts in 1929.
Gross earnings have stepped down from
£156,525 in ’2B to £68,595 for the last term,
when the slip was £6685. Exes. (£75,191)
were .pulled back £17,055, reducing the loss
to £9596. Some of the co.’s leases run out
presently; these are expected to be re-
newed at about half the rental now paid.
Also, trading conditions are better than they
were; but the industry generally is capable
of taking care of a much greater demand
than is likely to be met with for a while,
and that is pretty certain to mean low prices
and slender profit margins all round.
The market notes this and the change in
the financial position, and prices the prefs.
at 6s. 6d. At July 31 they were covered
by net tangibles with a book value of 365.
6d., and, allowing for the statutory cut,
there will be £18,113 (=ss. 2d. per share)
coming to them at the close of next accounts.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it-
-1924. 1929. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £BO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities . . 136,083 25,247 83,432 80,672
Freeholds . . 100,110 48,376 105,675 105,675
Leaseholds . . 105 8,929 4,209 3,049
Plant . . 14,863 15,874 14,876 13,309
Stocks . . 141,143 75,300 50,885 42,713
Debtors . . 3,529 38,886 34,068 33,575
Investments, cash,
etc 5,089 8,083 11,128 10,125
Thus the more or less liquid surplus (£5741)
slipped £6905 last year. Stocks, which have
been consistently worked down, are reported
thoroughly clean and conservatively valued;
much depends upon that.
Samuel Allen and Sons, Ltd.
Towards De-
June, Profit. , Dividends Reserves, ficit.
1922.. 37,943 71 p.c. = 27,500* 443 11,079
Pref.
8 p.c.
. £
1923.. 38,130 406 7* p.c. =37,500“ 324 10,855
1924.. 43.677 6,023 7* ~,, 37,500* 154 10,701
1925.. 41,457 11,177 8 ~,, 26,000 4280 6,421
1926.. 49,358 13,687 9 „ ~29,250 6421
Reserves.
Inner reserves disclosed, £lO,OOO. . 10,000
1927.. 50,213 14,920 9 p.c. =29,250 6043 16,043
1928.. 48,492 15,025 9 „ 29,250 4217 20,260
1929.. 43,794 15,736 9 „ „ 29,250 18,968
1930.. 33,005 16,000 35 ,, „ 11,375 5630 24,598
Loss.
1931.. 20,357 Nil Nil 4,241
Deficit.
1932. .165,978 Nil Nil -- 161,737
*Divs. paid on face value of scrip and excess
over 5 p.c. transferred to capital.
Much of what the board had called profit
has turned out to be losses. The co., which
was put on its legs by Samuel Allen at
Townsville over, half a century ago, is in
the wine and spirit and general merchandis-
ing trade. Of recent years it developed a
considerable indenting and agency business
in the southern capitals. But exchange and
the tariff made this unprofitable, so the
Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne branches
(Continued on page 16.)


k
e neiu
estfn
Hlit
111 '• ..
70/
r^v
mmm
i
fillin'
n»\\
k
f wucia.
' ymt
m
/
Standard High-Grade
MOTOR TYRE
CATERPILLAE
TRACTION
TREAD
v
ARMOURED
WALL
HOW to minimise that main cause
of tyre destruction —the terrific
heat generated by road friction—is a
problem at last mastered in the new
design Barnet Glass Tyre. . . . Heat is
reduced by a new scientific balance be-
tween the stretch of rubber and cords
0.. . Heat is dissipated by the fan-blade
action of the buttressed side walls.
These stout buttresses also provide an
effective armour for the casing, pro-
tecting it against curb cutting and
abrasion and preventing distortion
. . . . The new Caterpillar Traction
Tread maintains positive road grip
at all angles, ensures direct driving
without slip and perfect control when
accelerating or braking. • ♦ ♦ * •
Barnet Glass
Tyres
Ml 4.
for Endurance


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, .Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
LARGE CAPITAL AVAILABLE.—I have London
Capital available for Proved Gold Properties, also
Capital to develop. Inspection made in any part of
Commonwealth. Reply with some details to
“LONDON,” c/o Mercantile Exchange, 380 Collins-
street, Melbourne, Cl.— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
MINES AND FIELDS EXAMINED. Reports
furnished. Write to William Bradford, late special
Examiner of Mines for Victorian Government.
Address William Bradford, Ballarat East. — Advt.
ca *m ♦ p^y~ -=
Every woman should see
that her husband is insured
EVERY woman has it in her hands to see that her husband
makes provision for her children and herself. It is absurd
for a woman to refuse to discuss Life Assurance with her
husband, because it seems like talking about his death. Life
Assurance should not be regarded as a gloomy subject to be
avoided. It
is the cheeri-
est of topics,
for it gives a
man and his
wife peace of
mind and
e 1 i m i nates
anxiety.
Life Assur-
ance costs
less than
most people
think. A
man in good
health,
aged 30,
can do
much by
invest ing
10/- a week
t o provide
for his de-
pendents. He
O'
csw
Suw»K
can take out an A.M.P. Policy for £lOOO, payable at death, for
less than 10/- per week, or a total annual cost of £24/14/2.
Invested at 5 per cent., that sum would bring in an income of
£1 per week. Not enough, of course, but very useful to a
widow; but wait—he may live many years, and A.M.P. Policies
grow with bonuses.
A.M.P. bonuses declared annually have a way of doubling the
value of the Policy in time. The longer a man lives, the larger
the value of his Policy when it matures.
Here is the way a certain man’s A.M.P. Policy stands to-day:—
Sum assured £lOOO 0 0
Total Bonuses to 31/12/’3l . . . . 2268 14 0
Total sum now assured . . . . .... £3268 14 0
Yearly premium paid £2O 16 0
The wise man takes out as large a Policy as he can afford, and
adds to it as his income grows. The wise wife sees that he does
it. There is an A.M.P. Booklet that tells how many different
ways there are of providing for a family. Send to the nearest
A.M.P. office for a copy of it.
Australian Mutual Provident
Society
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
F. F. McBRYDE, C. A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A.,
Assistant General Manager. Actuary.
v Branch Offices in Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
AMP
Qssets:£B6,6oo,ooo.
Gives best possible contract.
were closed and activities confined to the
north of Queensland, where prospects were
more favorable. Also, more attention was
given to cash trading, Sallen’s Economic
Stores being formed for the purpose. That
was during the 12 months to June 30, 1931,
for which period the net loss was put at
£20,357.
Before the books last closed it was decided
to overhaul the accounts, and no less than
£168,871 was written off, partly to cover
depreciation of properties, etc., but mainly
on account of “irrecoverable debts.” The
year’s actual trading resulted in a profit
of £2893. Gross earnings (£91,470) fell
away £22,409, due to the restriction of
activities, while exes. (£58,577) were re-
duced by £45,659. Still, the writing off left
£161,737 of the £325,000 of ord. capital un-
represented by tangibles at June 30. No
immediate action is to be taken to extin-
guish the deficit. The ords., which consist
largely of bonus scrip, are mostly held by
family interests and those in the business.
Prospects for the prefs. (there are 100,000
firsts and a like number of seconds, both 8
p.c. cumulative) will largely depend upon
whether the writing down proves to be
adequate, and upon how the new' stores turn
out. Trading for the first quarter of the
current term is said to have been profitable,
and the long dry spell in the nor’-west of the
State has been broken.
There have been big changes in balance-
sheet figures, due to the writing down and
alterations in the method of presenting the
accounts: —
1922. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £287,500 £525,000 £525,000 £525,000
Overdraft .. 81,919 121,341 118,688 120,014
Deposits, etc. 107,707 83,491 79,583 93,622
Freeholds . . 76,669 243,529 262,713 276,750
Shares in other
cos., etc. . . 29,420 14,623 9,978 51,886
Stocks . . 95,352 99,103 67,067 43,953
Book debts .. 279,891 405,175 387,754 195,519
Cash . . .. 9,717 8,793
The amount coming to the bank on account
of special property purchases (£29,145 at
June 30, 1931) was previously deducted
from the book value of the asset before
writing the figures into the sheet. Also, a
deposit of £29,554 in anticipation of return
of capital from Northern Breweries (Q.),
Ltd., in which this co. holds 100,000 £1
shares paid to 13s. 9d., has been disclosed.
Leaving the deposit out of the reckoning,
the outside debt was actually reduced by
£43,334 during the year; but the more or
less liquid surplus (£63,183, excluding
shares, etc.) was £164,222 lighter than at
the close of accounts in 1931. Shares, etc.,
now include £20,352 invested in the new
stores, already referred to. The property
item includes 26 hotel freeholds, 11 of which
are in Townsville.
The market takes a gloomy view of the
co.’s prospects, and prices the firsts at os.
and the seconds at Bs. 6d.
Bulolo Gold Dredging
The co. has not disappointed its backers.
No. 1 dredge, which began on March 21, had
turned over 558,800 c.y. for 10,4420 z. of
bullion, worth 167,796 Canadian dollars
(= 29,497 sovereigns), by May 31. After
meeting all outgoings, including preliminary
exes. (5000 dollars), interest on unpaid bal-
ance of property purchase consideration
(9925 dollars) and setting aside 15,000
dollars for depreciation, the profit was
108,659 dollars. Excluding royalties, working
exes, were approximately 4 gold cents per
yard as against a prospectus estimate of 124
gold cents. The co. is now working ground
worth Is. 1.3 d. on gold basis. Still lower
costs, and perhaps better values, might be
expected when the property is equipped with
four dredges. Moreover, reduction in costs
should bring in additional yardage, which
together with the Bulowat, Burnside, Widu-
bosh and West and Hidden Valley areas
should considerably extend the profitable
life of the co. The area now held extends
for 134 miles along the Bulolo and Watut
Rivers”; the prospectus estimate of 13 years
was based on an original 44 miles. No. 2
dredge set in on Oct. 25. Nos. 3 and 4,
which are to work the Bulowat area, will
have larger buckets and dig deeper than
either of the first two. ' No. 3 is expected
to begin about August next, and No. 4 about
seven months after that.
Balance-sheet figures (Canadian dollars)
at May 31 were: Paid capital, 3,695.000
dollars; reserves, 239,888 dollars, including
share premiums (115,027 dollars) and the
p. and 1. credit already referred to. Current
liabilities figured at 272,053 dollars, and
deferred claims, chiefly payable in shares,
at 527,490 dollars. Properties appear at
2,518,461 dollars, and dredges and plant
at 2.004,565 dollars. More or less liquids
totalled 487,934 dollars, of which 81,163
were represented by cash and 157,440 by
bullion.
W.A. Woollen Mills, Ltd., is cancelling
capital lost or unrepresented by available
assets to the extent of 13s. 4d. a share upon
each of the 110,846 issued shares. The
unissued 139,154 shares are being reduced
by a like amount. The board states that
a revaluation of the co.’s assets reduces
them by £22,946, which, with depreciation,
accumulated losses, etc., less forfeited share
reserves, gives a total debit of £73,898.
After the writing-off, paid capital will be
£36,948 in 6s. Bd. shares. The co. has had a
bad spin so far, but improved organisation
is expected to help it in the future.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan, which is now treating 100
tons of ore daily, is pushing on with the
erection of additional classifiers and the re-
conditioning of the second tube mill. To
put the plant in a state to treat 3000 tons
of ore weekly will cost another £25,000 or
more. The necessary finance has been
arranged. On this point many shareholders
would like a lot more information than has
thus far been given.
* * * *
Golden Surprise, North Arm (Q.). is
issuing 10,000 contribs. of 10s. each. The
money is wanted to increase the battery to
5000 tons monthly, and to purchase the
Golden Surprise Extended, should that be
decided upon. The shares are to be listed
in Brisbane. A recent clean-up of 65 tons
from the Extended yielded 57|oz. The
cyaniding plant is complete, and the present
battery is working full time.
New Misima, on Misima Island, Papua,
continues to pay steady Is. divs., and Is. 6d.
is predicted after Christmas. With gold at
the old statutory price, 6d. per share would
be assured on the present aspect of the mine,
which is improving. The show’s reputa-
tion after the St. Aignan’s and Block 10
cos. dropped it was enough to frighten any
cautious speculator off the island. How-
ever, F. C. Cuthbert, -who made a fortune
on the Croydon field (Q.), assisted G. O.
Wilkinson to finance and equip the mine
when the original system of cyaniding the
uncruslied ore had become impossible, and
when there was no mill to crush with. The
present 10-head battery and other equip-
ment are much inferior to the fine plant
that the big cos. did so badly with. It
is all reminiscent of the Cathcart, Ararat
(Vic.), where early failure by large interests
was followed by success under a manager
who understood the alluvialling game.
* * * *
G. F. Graham and party are on their way
to New Guinea to test-bore Bulolo Gold
Deposits’ Lower Watut leases. The neces-
sary plant is on the spot, the ground is
practically free from timber and native labor
is plentiful. First results are expected to be
announced early in the new year. The
Deposits Co. is an Adelaide concern, headed
by Crawford Vaughan. If the tests are
satisfactory, Alluvial Gold, an offshoot of
Alluvial Tin, will form a co. to work the
ground.
* * * *
The Kingston G. M. Co., near Brisbane,
which is working a large body of sdwt.
stuff and better by open cut, is installing an
Empire mill. The intention is to increase
the capacity of the plant to 150 tons per
day, or 54,750 per annum. On a recovery
of sdwt. of fine gold per ton gross output
is valued at £95,813. All-in costs are figured
at 14s. per ton (£38,852), and £3835 is
allowed for development, leaving an esti-
mated net return of £53,625, or 67.7 p.c.
on a paid capital of £62,250. The co. is
recovering more than 92 p,c. of the gold
content, which is over 21 carats pure.
* * * *
The new 50-acre lease which has been
pegged on the line of the old Inglewood reef,
Gympie (Q.), is over 2000 ft. away from
any of the old workings. When the Scot-
tish closed down a dozen years ago, owing
to mounting costs, it had produced nearly
six tons of gold. The mine had been worked
to a depth of 2350 ft., and there was 12ft. of
reef, averaging 12dwt., showing in all the
faces.
* * * *
Silaya Tin proposes to spend about £250
in shaft-sinking and crosscutting on its Lol-
worth (N.Q.) option. The lode carries some
rich lenses on the surface, where it is 70ft.
wide in places. What average values are,
and whether the formation persists at depth,
remain to be proved. From shallow work-
ings on the adjoining Surprise lease 51 tons
recently yielded 1790 z. of gold.
* * :|: t-
A syndicate is to again try the old Mount
Shamrock goldfield on the Gayndah (Q.)
railway. Gold was first discovered in the
locality in 1883 ; and the Mount Shamrock
w r as a producer for nearly 20 years. It is
the only spot in Queensland where telluride
has been found.
* * its
The Queensland Government has had three
semi-portable batteries made. These will
be sent to areas recommended by the Gov-
ernment Geologist to enable miners to test
their finds. Each battery has three head
of stamps, driven by an oil engine, and will
be carried on a motor-lorry. If the experi-
ment is successful more of these batteries
will be supplied.
* * * its
Uralla Gold (N.S.W.) now reports all
its dams full, thus making regular sluicing
possible. Owing to a dry spell', work was
intermittent during September and early
October, 240 z. lOdwt. being recovered from
5000 c.y. Total production to date is 58oz.
lOdwt., worth' £339, from 12,300 c.y.
* * * *
The Kangaroo at Berringa (Vic.) is to
be unwatered, and a plant to treat 100
tons a day erected. The Kangaroo lies
between the Fancy and another show, yield-
ing ounce stuff, now being worked by a
syndicate.
* * * *
Goldfields Australian Development has
been incubated in London to explore a group
of Westralian leases. The two principal
shareholders are Consolidated Goldfields of
South Africa and the Transvaal Agency.
The chairman is J. A. Agnew, of Consoli-
dated. The Broken Hill group is repre-
sented on the board by W. S. Robin-
son. Capital is £300,000, but no shares
are available to the public at present. Some
of the properties to be proved are at
Wiluna and Laverton. W. S. Robinson has
sailed for Australia to see to preliminaries.
H* i'fi
Roland Blanchard, geologist at Mt. Isa,
has been looking at the Big Bell and Tin-
dais and other idle goldmines in Westralia.
It will depend on his report whether
Herman Mandelstam, formerly of Perth, but
now of London, gets the backing he seeks
in New York for the further development
of these shows.
* * * *
South Kalgurli, which paid a regular 2s.
6d. on its fully-paid 10s. shares for the 11
years to the close of accounts in 1931, fol-
lowed by 6s. last year, is expected to further
increase its distribution during the current
term. Though its principal lease was “be-
coming worked out” years ago, reserves show
the mine to be still a long way ahead of
the mill. Recently good values were exposed
at the 525 ft. level in the Hainault block,
now being opened up. .
H* ♦ sj; jj»
Thus far the only option exercised by
B. H. Prop, in Westralia is Hannan’s North.
An English co. worked this property for a
time, and then gave up. Years later Gt.
Boulder did likewise. Gold won by the
Prop, during development is said to be more
than sufficient to pay exes. The co. con-
tinues to prospect on the Enterprise leases,
but work has not yet proceeded far enough
to form a definite idea of their values.
* * * :1c
Gt. Boulder (W.A.), which has been
whooping about its prospects lately, has
declared a threepenny div., the third within
12 months. Also, it has postponed the in-
stallation of a new treatment plant until
more ore has been developed, and decided to
grant tributes only under special circum-
stances in future.
* * =is *
After driving through 200 ft. of sandstone
two young prospectors struck some, rich
wash on the old Ranfurly claim on the north
bank of the Kawarau River (M.L.). An
ounce or more to the dish is being obtained,
with occasional slugs up to 15dwt. Numer-
ous claims have been pegged, of course. The
discovery, which is thought may turn out
to be the mother lode of the Clutha River
gold, bears out the deductions of Professor
Park, Maoriland’s international mining
authority, who reported on the district in
1907.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.S.: The proper course to follow would be to
engage the services of a mining engineer to examine
and report on the proposition C.J.1.: Although
complex, the ore should be workable. Provided there
is enough of it to warrant the erection of a plant,
and provided the stone continues to carry the silver
values mentioned, operations may prove to be payable
at present prices. If the zinc can be eliminated,
the galena and copper ought to bring in something,
too Mado: (1), (2) and (3) N 0.... .S.M.X.: (1)
Quite possible, but no move in that direction has
been announced. (2) They ought to be worth a lot
more some day.... S.W.L.: In the circumstances, it
is very doubtful whether this flax can be marketed
at a profit at the moment Kurrajong: N 0....
C.M.T.: The bonds are not a mortgage within the
meaning of the N.S.W. Moratorium Act. Its pro-
visions therefore do not apply.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
An Australian Show-boat
At their annual talk in Adelaide the
Associated Chambers of Manufactures de-
cided to endorse the idea of an Australian
show-boat to tour the Netherlands Indies
and Malaya, with a possible look-in on
China. The notion is L. Withall’s baby-
lie is assistant sec.. of the Vic. Chamber,
which is strongly in favor of it. N. S.
Wales also approves, and the other States
are more or less interested. Whether a Dutch
K.P.M. or a Burns-Philp liner will be re-
quisitioned is undecided; both cos. have
promised to back the project to the best of
their ability. The selected vessel will be
thrown -open for inspection at each port,
and there will be an attractive display of
our secondary products. About 100 mer-
chants, with their wives and daughters, are
expected to participate.
Java appears to be the best prospect.
Our trade there amounts to 1-J millions a
year, but that is a mere fleabite to what it
might be if our goods were properly pre-
sented. The Dutch East Indies have a
population of approximately 50,000,000.
and though they are mainly agricultural
peasants whose scale of living is low and
whose needs are simple, even a slight change
in their habits might mean something worth
while. , Some years ago an enterprising
American oil firm discovered that the inhabi-
tants of one province still lighted their
houses with lamps made of half a cocoanut
with a piece of fibre placed in it. The firm
sent a ship full of kerosene lamps and pre-
sented them gratis to all comers. After that
an oil-tanker called there regularly. The
European population amounts to about
250,000, white and half-caste, most of them
salaried people. Orientals other than
Javanese number a million, and the Arabs
and Chinese are wealthier than the Dutch-
men and better spenders. A Chinese mer-
chant’s home is a museum of British, Dutch
and American manufactures, ranging from
electric player pianos to Parisian dresses.
Although Holland has built up the biggest
trade with her crowded colonies, no differ-
ence is made between Dutch and foreign
imports. The exchange rate is a factor in
Australia’s favor.
Empire Timbers
Though it was said that Ottawa would
be sure to do something for Empire timbers,
Australian sawmillers have learned nothing
of any undertaking having been given by
the British Government that it would
interfere with the regular shipments of
Russian timber. British' timber merchants
last year purchased from Russia no less
than 400,090 standards of timber. Strenu-
ous protests were made against the impor-
tations, mainly by public men opposed to
dealings with the Soviet, but in vain. This
year the same interests are concerned in
another heavy purchase, of 300,000 stan-
dards ; and there is no suggestion that the
trade will not welcome it. When the first
importations were made from Russia the
timber was jumbled up in sizes, lengths
and qualities, and heavy losses resulted.
Later shipments have been first-class, which
has meant a material reduction in handling
and transit charges. Trade relationships
between British timber merchants and
Russia have consequently improved.
Though not to anything like the same
extent as Canada, Australia is interested
in the timber trade of Britain. Until the
war several Australian States —particularly
Westralia and Victoria —had very profitable
connections with London and Liverpool
markets. These have been regained in only a
small way. Victorian sawmillers have been
particularly alert of late to the need for
lively propaganda among the London archi-
tects to induce them to use Victorian kiln-
dried woods, and a measure of success has
attended their efforts. While bargains were
being made at Ottawa the sawmillers of
Australia were entitled to expect some
arrangements for safeguarding the British
market for such timbers —timbers fitted for
high-grade work such as furniture and fit-
tings, railway and carriage work, super-
engineering jobs, post office requirements,
and ballroom floorings. But, though the
expectation has thus far been fruitless, the
fight is not over, and representatives of
Australian timber producers in London are
still pressing their case. x
The Australian Horse Trade
Australia's horse-export figures are still
far from negligible. In 1929-30 the trftal
was 6331, valued at £207,000; 1930-31, 5027,
value £145,348; 1931-32 (to June 30 last),
4000-odd, value £121,000. The figures of
the last few months have picked up again.
India remains the chief market —for re-
mounts- —and the Netherlands East Indies
is also a market for that type. Malaya and
Siam are cultivating a taste for Australian
polo-pony types. Recently A. Traamberg,
a New England breeder, reported having
sold 16 saddle horses in Singapore, five of
them polo ponies bought by the Sultan of
Johore. Another deal was put through by
J. E. Redfearn, a Victorian dealer and son
of the man who owned Malvolio, winner of
the Melbourne Cup in 1891. He has just
sold 29 untried three-year-olds, picked up 0t
Sydney and Melbourne yearling’ sales, to
the Singapore Turf Club. He has an order
for 30 more for the same club and 18 more
for the Sourabaya Turf Club. In that part
of the world the practice is for the clubs
to buy untried horses and place them among
members by ballot or at auction.
Monopolies
Dear Bulletin, —Under the above head-
ing, “Mudgee” (B. 26/10/’32) accepts The
Bulletin’s challenge to name a few Aus-
tralian monopolies, and he defines a monopoly
as follows:
If the whole stock of any particular commodity
or a great part of it is in the hands of only one
seller or combination of sellers, or if the whole or
a great part is demanded by only one buyer or
combination of buyers, this fact is called a monopoly.
There is no truth in the allegation so far as
my co. is concerned. Imperial Chemical
Industries, Ltd., as such, holds no shares in
Australian Fertilizers, Ltd.; its subsidiary,
the Australian co., has a minority interest
only. This can be verified by inspection of
the list of shareholders at the Registrar-
General’s office. There is no monopoly in the
fertiliser industry in Australia. According
to the Production Bulletin No. 25 issued
by the Commonwealth Statistician, there are
31 chemical fertiliser factories in Australia;
some of these have farmer shareholders.
Shares in our co. are available for purchase
by primary producers at par, so that pri-
mary producers have the option of coming
into a definitely established business with-
out any payment for goodwill. This state-
ment of facts —not mere assumptions—shows
to what extent reliance can be placed upon
“Mudgee’s” assertions.
Farmers and the public generally can rest
assured that the Australian fertiliser trade
is not subject to monopolistic control; and,
furthermore, farmers are receiving their
superphosphate supplies to-day at a cheaper
rate than in 1913 —as to what other com-
modity the farmer uses can this be said ?
A recent review by Dr. L. J. H. Tcakle,
of the Department of Agriculture of West-
ralia, published in that State’s “Journal of
Agriculture,” September (1932), relating to
the price of superphosphate, is of interest.
Dr. Teakle says :
Allowing for the extra cost, owing to exchange
on raw materials, the real cost of 22 per cent, super-
phosphate for the 1932-33 season is £4 ss. 2d.
Australian, which is practically identical with the
calculated value ( £4 ss. sterling) of a similar grade
of superphosphate in Liverpool.
The price above-mentioned of £4 ss. 2d. Aus-
tralian is calculated on the existing cash
price of £4 10s. per ton. —Yours, T. H.
Williams, Sec., Australian Fertilizers,
Limited.
Chilled Meat
The day approaches when Australia will
be a competitor in the European chilled-
meat market. This country, which originated
the export of frozen meats, has been out-
distanced by other lands whose proximity
enabled them to land meat in a chilled
instead of the less attractive frozen
condition. For years past Australian experts
have been trying to devise a process which
will carry chilled meat over 'the longer
journey—four times greater than that which
faces the South American shipper. Recently
Queensland sent a cargo in the Port Fairy,
a vessel fitted with a new chilling process,
to Hull. From port to port the meat was
carried for 50 days and with a few excep-
tions the carcases landed in fine condition
and free from the dreaded mould. Prices
were ljd. per pound above the normal quote
for Australian frozen beef. The “Meat
Trades Journal” comments that Common-
wealth shipments of chilled beef as a com-
mercial projiosition are not far distant.
High costs of production will, however, still
handicap the Australian product compared
with the South American; but this may be
counterbalanced by insistence on supreme
quality, by more intensive organisation
among’ the cattle-growers, and by better
value given for the wages paid at the abat-
toirs.
The Dole in Cash
“Du Barrier”: A short while ago over 100
ration-tickets were issued on a certain store
here (N.Q.). The grocer grabbed the chance
of profiteering. An overcharge of 3d. on a
favorite brand of tobacco was one glaring
instance. When fifty or so had accepted the
piratical act meekly, a journalist in the
crowd jumped the counter, grabbed a printed
price list hanging on the wall, and held it
high. “Look, men, how you’ve been cheated !”
he said. Of course, the shopkeeper discovered
that he had made a mistake. I am not
suggesting that the average storekeeper
descends to such robbery (of down-and-
outers!), but if the dole is paid in cash, or
at least in an open order, the buccaneer
wouldn’t have a chance. There would be
abuse. A few would buy beer and starve.
But so they can and do now by selling the
tickets for booze-money.
Another effort is being made to fit Mackay
(Q.) with a better harbor. The old sugar
town’s present port is an open roadstead
between Flat Top Island and the mainland,
and all cargo has to be handled by lighters.
For over half a century Mackay has been
agitating for a breakwater connecting the
Island with the mainland and forming a
more or less enclosed harbor, but always
the matter has been dropped. Local Harbor
Board members are now trying to induce
southern financiers to find £BOO,OOO to com-
plete the. scheme. There is much good
cattle country behind the Mackay sugar-land.
* * * *
From Samoa
Owing to the difficulties of exchange, American
orders have been cancelled by most of the store-
keepers here. When their stock in hand is finished
they will be looking for more satisfactory markets.
This is Australia’s chance, especially for dried fruits
and canned stuff. I do not know of a commercial
traveller representing Australian firms who now comes
here. Three or four Enzeds come monthly. Aus-
tralian stuff is consequently notable by its absence
from the stores. Take paint, for instance —there
is not a tin of black enamel to be obtained to-day
in Apia. Don’t Bergers, 8.A.L.M., Borthwicks and
half a. dozen others whom we know quite well
through Tub Bulletin make as good an article as
American “Certainteed” ? Absolutely! But it can’t
be purchased here. Australians may never again g'et
such a chance to dig in.
* * * *
The public was taken behind the scenes
by a deputation which saw N.S.W. Minister
for Justice Martin to ask for the wiping out
of coupon and frec-gift schemes. Reference
was made to some of the presents that are
given after customers have saved up coupons.
The head of a big city house said that a
Japanese co. offered to supply his firm with
“gold” rings at lOd. a gross. They were
to be given out as presents in exchange
for coupons. Another said that some teas
sold in Australia to-day at upwards of 2s. 3d.
per pound are bought in Java for 3d.; his
point was that, only for the coupon system,
they could be sold over the counter for Is. 3d.
a pound.
THE JACK-POT TALKS.
“In the N.S.W. Assembly Mr. Lang moved a vote of censure on the Government, alleging that the Premier, Mr. Stevens,
had bribed a man named Barry to furnish evidence on which the Royal Commission into the tin-hare scandal was issued.”
THE POT: "Bright and shiny, are yer? That’s bluff! If you only know it, yer blacker than I am.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS Foil COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Hold My Hand”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Lilac Time”
King’s “Aatumn Crocus”
State Movies and Talkies
♦
New Sydney Rep. Soc. placed upon the
boards at its Ivent-streec playhouse on
Saturday six plays of the Grand Guiguol
genre written by local authors. Clare
Thomas’s “Passed On” depicted the hysteria
of a flapper when she realised that her fiance
had handed her over to another man as
if she were a chattel. Virgina Coyle put
a lot of acting into the part of the dis-
illusioned maiden. J. 11. Cologon, who is
evidently a keen reader of American gang-
ster stories, contributed a grim but not
unamusing study entitled “Just Between
Friends.” In it a Latin crook about to
be “taken for a ride” unwittingly provides
the man who desires his death with the
price a professional killer is to be paid to
do the dirty work. Ron Roberts, Ramon
Frederick and John Vincent kept suspense
alive in the playlet. “The Joke,” by Jean
Garling, was the principal shocker on the
bill. A nervous flapper is coaxed into sleep-
ing in a reputedly spook-ridden room by a
youth and his sister. The couple then pro-
ceed to scare the girl with rappings and
faked apparitions. Their foolish joke sends the
girl crazy, and in her dementia she stabs the
sister and kills herself. The authoress
played the leading role, supported by Harry
Farrell and Suzanne Cooper, and the trio
made the thing adequately horrifying. M.
Archer’s “Greater Love Hath No Man”
revolved around the rights and wrongs of
permitting a person afflicted with an incur-
able disease to take his own life. A doctor
opposes the notion, but a strong-minded
sister of the patient believes in the right-
ness of euthanasia. She hands him a revolver.
Muriel Connor was convincing as the sister.
“Separated,” by C. Ball, depicted a hus-
band’s struggle to keep his wife away from
strong liquor. It was nothing more than a
sketch, but the acting of Eddie Finn and
Helen Kent lifted it above the level of most
of the others. Dorothy Purdy’s “The Mills
of God” was the only piece deserving of
the title of Grand Guignol. It was excep-
tionally well constructed, and was capably
acted throughout. It discloses how a young
woman about to be married to an airman
learns that her lover is a murderer. Miss
Purdy and Joan Sotheran were fine as the
young woman and a friend, and William
Rees gave a well-rounded picture of a parish
priest.
* V V
The Sydney Players’ Club shook the moth-
balls out of its eighteenth-century cos-
tumes and donned ruffles and perukes for
a production of “The Rivals” at St. James’s
Hall on Saturday. Producer J. E. >C. Apple-
ton, who also designed the settings, has
grasped the many advantages which the
latter-day revival of simplified scenery offers
amateur cos., not the least being that it
saves money and eliminates tedious waits
between acts. Mr. Appleton utilised black
drapings with a little period furniture, judi-
ciously placed, for the interior scenes, and
drapings and a few indicative panels for out-
door scenes. The effect was all that could
be desired. In the matter of acting the
comedy was up to the club’s highest stand-
ard. Kenneth Fowles, who is blessed with
a full, clear voice, made Captain Absolute
the sturdy, alert young man o’ war that he
was. Alice Gould was pleasing in looks
and speech as the romantic-minded Lydia.
Beatrice Wines made Mrs. Maiaprop a like-
able soul. J. E. C. Appleton, in addition to
his other duties, appeared as Faulkland, and
except for a little indecision towards the
end gave a creditable performance. Others
in the cast were Edward Cavill (Sir Anthony
Absolute), T. T. Henessy (Bob Acres),
James Hancock (Sir Lucius O’Triggcr),
Kathleen Dickey (Lucy), Nan Gardiner
(Julia), William Wines (who doubled
David and the coachman) and Douglas Cook
(Fag). The play will be repeated next
Saturday,
V * *
A wise management, seeing portents in
the box-office, turned from the Gilsullivan
repertoire to “Lilac Time” at Melb. Royal
on Saturday. G. and S. have had a good
run, but the change was welcome. The sen-
timental play woven round Schubert’s music
was somewhat outside the scope of a co.
inured to English comic opera, but it was
well handled on the whole. John Ralston
was again the sheepish, moronic caricature
of the Viennese composer, with a vocal
organ somewhat troubled by vibrato, which
gave to Schubert’s lyrics the effect of being
lullabies. The accomplished Stigant was a
fresh and appreciated breeze as Christian
Veit, the glassmaker. Nobody recognised
Ivan Menzies as Novotny, the detective, on his
first appearance with an unadulterated
foreign accent, but on his return later some
of the accent had been dropped, possibly by
accident, and the talented Savoyan received
the usual rapturous ovation. Bernard Man-
ning, who never forgets he is an actor, was
Kappel, the draughtsman, and Evelyn Gar-
diner’s La Marinella suffered from over-pro-
duction. Rona Wimpney, Mary Ilotham and
Marie Bremner, as the three Veit daughters,
conveyed the impression that Mrs. Veit had
given birth to all equally charming.
Operatic tenor Charles Nicis, who teaches
the iel canto in Sydney, and whose Cava-
radossi was one of the bright spots of the
recent Williamson opera season, introduced
a Sydney audience to lyrics by the Finnisb
composers Sibelius and Kuula, the Estho-
nians Tiirnpu and Kapp, and the Latvians
Darsin and Medin, together with a group
of Russian gipsy songs. All proved rich
in melody and some exhibited rhythmical
effects that, though doubtless conventional
in their own idiom, seemed new and strange.
In these, and in excerpts from Rimsky-
Korsakov’s “May Night” and Tschaikow-
sky’s “Pique Dame,” the singer’s flexible
and expressive voice was heard to great
advantage. The Nordic flavor was main-
tained by Nora Williamson, a violinist of
merit, who played the first movement of
Grieg’s C Minor Sonata very acceptably.
Latest addition to Sydney's small army
of pianoforte recitalists is Myra Collins, a
pupil of Isidore Goodman. At the Con.
Hall on Thursday evening she played Liszt’s
arrangement of Bach’s organ prelude and
fugue in A minor, Schumann’s “Etudes
Symphoniques,” a Chopin group, and some
programmatic pieces by Groslez. Tone and
touch of this pianist are admirable, and her
digital facility is adequate to the works she
performs, but on the interpretative side she
has a long road to travel. It is in her favor
that she doesn’t pretend emotions.
* * *
The Mo show at Melbourne Tiv. con-
tinues to fulfil expectations, one being that
the leading comedian’s trousers will come off
at some time in the proceedings. This
occurrence provides an experience which
never loses its freshness for Tiv. audiences.
Syd Beck is overshadowed by his classmate
in this school of comedy. As an antidote to
Mo, there is a heavy serving of mother-love
sentiment, largely provided by Queenie Paul
and Mike Connors, who sing of old ladies
with silvery crowns who live in shanties
in Old Shanty Town. Horace Gilsen
suffers from the same obsession. Around
the above galaxy of talent the Exquisite
Eight and the Con-Paul boys revolve gaily
and Mo saws a boy in half without incur-
ring a charge of manslaughter.
V * #
The Wagner concert of the Melbourne
Philharmonic Society and the University
Orchestra at the Town Hall on Saturday
was definitely a fine achievement. “Parsifal,”
first act, “Tannhauser,” second, and
“Lohengrin,” third, were gone through with
a spirit which was more joyful and exuberant
when Alice Orff-Solscher led the singing.
The lady seemed to have a firmer grip of her
late fellow-countryman’s music than the con-
ductor. There was the requisite tenderness
and charm in Alexander Raff’s bass, especi-
ally in the “Lohengrin” excerpt. “Lohen-
JACK RUSSELL AND CO., AT SYDNEY NEW TIV.
( N.B. —Russell is the unpleasant-looking old person who is threatening to dong Len
Rich. The lady with the baby is Angela Parselles, and the plump face down
in the corner belongs to Cliff O’Keefe. Other minstrels dotted around.)
grin” is all about swans and doves and
azure heights and other things that are
better left to the imagination of an audience
than presented on a stage with a groggy bit
of scenery manipulated by a stage hand.
Consequently nothing of artistic importance
was lost through the opera being performed
before the Town Hall curtain, though the
chorus is capable of better work.
* * ¥
Ernest Rolls’s revues are now a weekly
feature at Melb. Regent and occupy a good
half of the programme. The show of un-
dressed girl interspersed by Gus Bluett and
Jennie Benson is a condensed version of the
spiced confectionei-y box the eminent entre-
preneur used to offer at the Palace. The
Regent is about five times the size of the
latter playhouse, and from the back of the
circle the co. looks like a collection of mites
discussing a round of cheese, but its voice
is larger than life owing to the use of
amplifiers.
¥ ¥ ¥
“Autumn Crocus” is in its last nights at
Melb. King’s, and theatregoers who haven’t
yet sampled one of the pleasantest plays pre-
sented by the Firm for a long time are
advised to hurry.
Shadow Shows.
Only the voice of Tauber matters in
“The End of the Rainbow,” at the Lyceum;
the story is very feeble. Tauber is a
Bavarian innkeeper with a voice. He
attracts the notice of a touring prima donna,
is lured to Berlin, wins fame, is separated
from his village sweetheart, Lucie Englisch,
by his new admirer, and, after a run home
in time to see Lucie married to the other
fellow, chooses the prima donna and a trip
to U.S.A. The dialogue is German, but the
miming is so good and the production so
clever that the interpolated captions in Eng-
lish aren’t necessary. This talkie is dis-
tinguished by its complete naturalism.
Tauber’s eight numbers blend perfectly with
the story, and, of course, he sings them
exquisitely. He proves to be Caruso-like in
build and the possessor of a cheery per-
sonality.
* * *
“Vanity Fair of To-day,” at Sydney Plaza,
is a fatuous attempt to bring Thackeray’s
novel up-to-date. Myrna Loy looks and
behaves as Becky Sharp might have looked
and behaved to-day if she had been an Ameri-
can. But then Becky was essentially an
English adventuress. Conway Tearle is
liawdon Crawley; Anthony Bushell, Dobbin,
and Walter Byron, George Osborn; and they
would have been well cast if the movie had
been in period. Lionel Belmore (Pitt
Crawley) and Montague Love (Steyne) are
rather more Thackerayan, but they never
come to life either. Why on earth this
story, which depends for practically the
whole of its significance on its Georgian set-
ting, was modernised will remain one of the
mysteries of moviedom. George Arliss might
have made a masterpiece of it.
* * *
The heroine of “What Price Hollywood,”
at Sydney Capitol, is Constance Bennett.
She represents a waitress, who becomes a
star in a night, so to speak. Lowell Sher-
man is the quiet, polished movie director
who accomplishes the miracle. The situa-
tions are stereotyped. Miss Bennett gets so
above herself that it is necessary for Neil
Hamilton, a polo-player who eventually mar-
ries her, to curb her bad manners by man-
handling her on approved U.S.A. he-man
lines. Domestic troubles end in a scream-
ing scandal which smashes her career and
drives her to France, where she is reunited
to her husband by the agency of an angel-
chee-ild. The satire is clever in its way,
but it’s all so old. Actresses, operatic stars
and the like were perpetrating all the vul-
garities and fatuities of the Hollywood stars,
and being derided accordingly, a generation
before the movies were heard of.
* * *
“Smilin’ Through,” at Sydney St. James,
is nearly all Norma Shearer. She is first
a bewitching girl of the sixties of last cen-
tury, and in love with Leslie Howard, who
adores her. A rejected suitor, halLcrazed by
drink, aims at Howard and shoots her dead
during the wedding ceremony. Years after-
wards the bereaved lover, who has become a
misanthrope, obsessed by resentment against
the family to whose head he owes his ruined
life, adopts an orphaned girl whose mother
was the sister of his lost love. Norma
Shearer plays this maiden as she appears
in 1915. She and Fredric March, the
American-born son of the murderer, fall in
love, but her guardian’s implacable hatred
comes between them. The play shows how
the embittered old man’s hostility was
gradually broken down. Few will deny after
seeing this delightful show that Norma
Shearer is an emotional actress of a high
order, as well as a finished exponent of light
comedy. She portrays a love-lorn girl in all
her moods —gay, whimsical, passionate, grief-
stricken, despairing—never overplays and
never misses an effect. The others are sound
—particularly O. P. Heggie as the wise
friend of the memory-haunted Howard —but
they are only feeders to the lovely little
heroine.
“Smilin’ Through” is a weepful business,
despite its happy ending—a strange girl on
the writer’s left nearly flooded him out at
one stage—so the management has intro-
duced a Laurel and H'ardy farce to balance
things. The pair are removalists on this
occasion. Screamingly funny to those who
admire them, as this writer does.
No schoolboy should miss “Chandu, the
Magician,” at Sydney Regent. Edmund
Lowe, as Chandu, is a yogi who has the
onerous job of saving the world from Bela
Lugosi. The latter owns a death-ray which
can burn up cities and is worked from an im-
pregnable fortress in the Egyptian desert.
Chandu moves secretly about Egypt bent on
frustrating him, and in order to avoid atten-
tion wears the blazing uniform of a Bengal
Lancer, and is accompanied by Naji, a
beauteous princess with a Connecticut
accent. Staring eyes, howls in the night,
torture chambers, a slave auction and a
crystal-gazing sequence add to the excite-
ment, while Herbert Mundin lightens the
agony as a drunken camel-driver. Enough
time and thought and cash have been ex-
pended on this nonsense to make half a
dozen ‘‘Lily Christines” or “Holidays.”
In “The Painted Woman” Peggy Shannon
is a daughter of joy who works the Pacific
coast of America and gets herself into what
she terms a jam. So she flees by way of the
Great Australian Bight and Fremantle to a
tropic isle between San Francisco and Tas-
mania. Here Spencer Tracy offei’s her mar-
riage, refuses to listen when she tides to
tell him of her past, but casts her off when
a section of the said past wearing the
clothes of William Boyd (l'oughneck sea
captain) appears. A noble savage whom
Tracy has saved from an octopus knifes
Boyd, is shot by the island police, and sobs
out a lying confession which reinstates
Peggy in her bone-headed husband’s esteem.
Irving Pichel is efficient as the suave per-
secutor of the unhappy goil.
¥ ¥ ¥
Both pictures at Sydney State this week
are about married women who satisfied them-
selves that their husbands were worthless,
left them, and then went back to them. “The
Marriage Bond” concerns the trials of a
family in which the son and daughter have
grown up to realise that their father is a
hopeless drunk. Guy Newall plays one of
those exasperating characters whom every-
body loves, but who love the bottle more
than anybody. His children—a shrewish,
cocky little daughter and a long-haired son
who would be well cast as a girl in a school
play—-persuade Mary Newcomb to separate
from him. Also there is another man—-
strong, silent, adoring and sober-—who wants
to marry Mary. But, like many another
woman with strong protective instincts, she
loves her poor old dipsomaniac, and goes
back to him in the end. This is an RKO
film, but it sticks to the tedious English
tradition of emphasising inessentials at the
expense of the continuity. The director
wants to indicate that the characters live
in a sporting county, so with relentless thor-
oughness he shows an entii’e day in the
hunting-field—hounds leaving the kennels,
the field hacking through lanes and villages
to the meet, the sighting of the fox, the run.
the kill and the ride home. Good acting and
a worthy story are dulled by similar devices
all through the piece.
The husband to whom Ann Harding goes
back in “Westward Passage” is fairly sober,
but an egotistical waster. The only tie
that binds them is sensuality—known as
“first love,” the “glamor of old romance,”
and so forth. She ditches him for a rival who
can give her a comfortable and self-respecting
life ; but when he materialises, after 10 years,
and again employs the erotic technique
which appeals to her, she yields after a brief
struggle with her commonsense. One gives
the new relationship a year at the outside.
In addition to being psychologically interest-
ing the film has some clever dialogue and
a number of glamorous sets. Laurence
Olivier is the naughty husband, and Irving
Pichel the solid one.
H- * *
The American iCivil War is the back-
ground for “Secret Service” at Sydney Hay-
market. Richard Dix is the customary spy.
He copes with danger after danger till the
innocent smile of the general’s daughter
makes him forget his brother’s sacrifice and
his own honoi*. He is a lugubrious hero
as usual, with spiritual doubts about the
ethics of military spying, but he looks the
theatrical old part. William Post, jun., and
Nance O’Neill are in the cast.
The Palette,
ďhe threw A’s show is the nearest thins
Melbourne has in the art lino to the Royal
Academy, and, omitting a few mild rebels
against tradition, its latest outburst at the
Athenaeum would easily pass for an R.A.
exhibition of a generation ago. Bernard
Hull's “The Blue Jar" is the last word in
academic finish, Jo Sweatman has some
highly-polished landscapes, and Blarnire
Young exhibits three new versions of lus fairy-
land. in front of which the spectator feels
constrained to hum “The Songs My Mother
Sang t<• Me.’’ H. B. Harrison has a large por-
trait of “Thelma’’; with the exception of H.
D. Colquhoun’a small sketches, it is the best
portrait in the exhibition. W- B. Mclnuess
“Gwendy”— two dogs and a girl, which seem
to have been forced into each other’s com-
pany from three different pictures—is
labelled “unfinished.” A. G. Newbury is
becoming more mystical than ever, and
Daryl Lindsay more positive. IBs “(Joins
Out for the *Warrnamhool Grand, Annual
Steeplechase, 11)32," is photographic In its
detail Will Ashton is still being pursued
by raw weather in Europe, and Victor Tel-
man shows an increasing tendency to im-
prove on a God-made world in three bronzed
landscapes. George Bell is still struggling
to get away from, academic conventions, but
without any clear idea, of where he wants to
go to when he gets out. John and William
Howell, w. r>. Knox and Dora Wilson show
no startling advances on their previous
manners. “Misty Morning on the River,
by A. Golquhrmn. sen., is the nearest thing
to an impression of nature in the show.
At the. Ilordern gallery. Sydney, the
Society of Women Painters displays its If'l'J
harvest. Of particular interest in a show
which maintains a fairly high level are
Olive Birkenhead’s landscapes, “greenery
yallery” in tone hut all very effective, (’hud
studies by Mrs. A. P. Clinton and Violk
Bowring are charming, and the fact that
Sydney is as picturesque a city as any *"
the world is demonstrated convincingly by
Laura Booth, Elaine CJbghlan, Mrs. VVlJctt*
and Audrey Russell. Among the sOll-uKs;
which are many, Mrs. Dawson’s ’“Violets,
in tempura, is notable, and Sheila Macdonald
gets some remarkably rich effects in colored
drawings.
Miss Cnmbrac Stewart, who left -Mel-
bourne teu years ago to seek fame as an
artist in an older world, had a very success
ful exhibition in Londou last year. Tuts
year one of her pictures was accepted for
the* Royal Academy, and a show of
pastels in Milan—she has been living m
Italy of late —elicited high praise from the
newspapers of that city. Miss f umbra*,*
writes that she is thinking of returning to
Melbourne.


Mg
|IIS
11111
Vy« 1 W&10M&: Qmi f : p > / i\ --" ?-, s <■ !.' t; -_ ' * -.,,
... n
■«MMi
11111
«■■■■■
Bill
I
/' : :
&,:
mm
m
i m
Wm
: ■' : i:
wammMm
\ . :
'
■i
m
m
.
BMM
-
l^»i;l|i*||^rf
mmmmmmm
wmmm
mm hi
■■ :
:■'■ ' ’.. ■'■' ,:: ' . ;x:-xV-
:
wgm i
:
I '
■
:: ." : '.' .■'
/
r A
HHH
_
w
m m
■
:
m i
■
,
-
m 9 pi
Of
1110 |
: < ■ :
'MzwwgmmmMmMmmm
■Mil IF Hai
:
■
K
+
m
hMhhHI
an
,
; ® s *::::. m
*
SVtOW-
HI
*\) + v +
MB!
i
&&
■
ft
m
a
: V
.;.::'V;--;v f; : : '.f..:.;-";-' 1 .:-/"'
i-.-sl
ill
■ IBIM llfiill
:
■' ■ H
m a
;
■i ■
ml
eHi
S D.V
:
a
±w*
17VERY 6d. packet of B.D.V. Cigarettes contains the
picture of a 1932-33 Test Cricketer and there
are two pictures in every 1/- packet.
No other ten-for-sixpenny cigarette offers you this popular
attraction. Buy B.D.V.’s for quality and value. They’re
made only from the purest imported Virginia tobacco!
D
□
□
D
CORK TIPS OR PLAIN
sd


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through + he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business,
s-
V
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates o] “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express’ ’ obtainable from;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-15 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire•
Wonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. ~ .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. .. .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 7. £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Frigid”: A fish found in W.Q. beats
the singing fish hollow for strangeness. It
is nicknamed the “frost-fish,” having a
better right to that name than the present
holder. In its natural state it is frozen,
just like a lump of ice, but if placed in
THE INTERPRETER.
BOSS: “What’s the little nipper trying to say?”
JACKY: “Gibbit baccy.”
fresh water or any non-saline liquid, except
beer, it thaws out and swims about with
great liveliness. Use is made of this pro-
perty, when the thermometer climbs above
the century mark, to make delicious ice
cream. The fish is caught and placed in
the cream. This it freezes, and its move-
ments at the same time beat the mixture
into the proper consistency. But it is no
good for cooling beer. It has a depraved
taste for that beverage, and. given the oppor-
tunity. will swallow the stuff till it bursts.
* * * *
“Mathias”: Those toheroas, the shell-
fish that figured so prominently in accounts
of the condition of the Ninety Mile Beach,
M.L., during a recent attempt to use it
as a racing track, are the subject of a local
legend which may or may not have a basis
in scientific fact. It is said that Mother
Toheroa lays her eggs on the surface of the
beach at high-water mark, where, under the
generative sun, they sprout little sail-like
excrescences. They spread these to the first
inland breeze that happens along, and it
trundles them up to the dry warmth of the
sand dunes. There they are hatched, after
which they again hoist all sail and make
the return journey to their original wetness
via the first outward breeze. Then they
sit and concentrate on qualifying for the
Canning Department. This prince of soup
ingredients can be found only on two or
three parts of the M.L. coast owing to
the toheroas being very finicky about their
cpmmis: ariat arrangements. Apparently,
there is a marine forest of very special
weed, which produces their food, offshore at
each of these points, and nowhere else can
the toheroa be found.
* * * *
“A.C.M.” : The fish in the Daintrec River
may be all “M. 5.8.” (B. 12/10/’32) claims
for them as tick eradicators, but I will back
the Muscovy duck to lick them to a frazzle.
On South Queensland dairy farms the ducks
watch for the cows, and the cows watch for
the ducks. As soon as Blossom can get
away from squirting milk and the erect
posture, down she goes and the ducks fore-
gather, and I know no sweeter picture of
rural contentment than Blossom on her cud
and the ducks on her ticks. When the
ducks have cleaned up one side she rises
obligingly and presents the other for atten-
tion.
“Frigid”: Yulgilbar is not Australia’s
only castle, as asserted by “Cooramin” (B.
26/10/’32). There is another and more
interesting one standing on Blackstone Hill,
which overlooks Ipswich (Q.). A Welsh
immigrant, the late Lewis Thomas, arrived
poor, but before he was 40 he was one
of the wealthiest mine-owners in Aus-
tralia. He decided to build a castle of white
stone similar to the historic edifices in his
native land. Antique furniture and valu-
able works of art were imported for it and
beautifully grained panels line the walls.
year the sea-tigers
have been unusually
numerous in East
Indian waters. On
a September evening
when sailors from
several ships were
bathing in the Gulf
of Timor 18 of them
fell victims and
seven were Dutch-
men. The Patrol
was ordered to do
something about it,
and some bright
spirit suggested the
use of whaling har-
poon s. A com-
pressed-air gun was
made and fitted in
a ’plane, and inside
six weeks the shark
population had been
reduced by 400. The
’plane flies at an
altitude of 1000 ft.,
at which height
sharks can be plain-
ly seen when swim-
ming n('a l ' v, ie sur-
face. When a
school is sighted the
’plane dives to with-
in 150 ft. of the
water and dis-
charges a 4ft. jave-
lin, triple - barbed.
It is impossible to
see if a hit is re-
corded. but there is
never any doubt on
that score. If a
shark is hit—and the
liarpoonist is now
very expert and sel-
dom misses—-all the
other sharks com-
mence to gobble him
up, and the flurry
occasioned ny tms
“Baliboy”: The Royal Netherlands Naval
Air Patrol, which has a “pretty adventurous
time as a matter of regular routine, now
varies its duties by indulging in an entirely
new sport—aerial shark harpooning. This
pleasant habit is easily recognisable from
on high. I haven’t been able to verify
this, but the Patrol officers say that liaison
officers are being sent from Sydney and
Rio de Janeiro to pick up tips about the
new sport.
“E.S.S.”: The death at Grafton (N.S.W.)
of Mrs. E. Howard, who wag Harriet
Small, the first white person born on
the Clarence, recalls the time when the
Smalls had trouble with the blacks.
John Small settled on Woodford Is., where
Harriet was born 91 years ago. On the
eve of a cattle muster two of his blackboys,
to whom he had just
given new suits of
clothes, deserted.
John and his brother
George, who had a
station at Ulmarra,
went after them in a
boat up the Cold-
slream. When they
landed near the camp
the blacks attacked
the m. John was
speared through the
arm and shoulder, and
cut on the head with
a boomerang; George
was speared through
the neck and thigh,
and received several
blows from nullas.
Then a big blackfellow
named Bdolahra in-
tervened, .standing be-
tween the parties and
warding off the spears
and boomerangs with
a heilamon. Finally
he assisted the wound-
ed men to the boat,
drew out the spears
and, after dressing the
wounds, rowed them
down to the station.
Some time before this
happened Boolahra had
been wrongly arrested
and taken to Darling-
hurst Gaol for spear-
ing cattle, and on
being discharged
tramped hack to the
Clarence. The Smalls
befriended him, and
he showed his grati-
tude by saving their
lives. John, George,
Tom and William
Small were the first squatters on the lower
Clarence, William being a well-known Swan
Creek identity. They were the grandsons
of Sergeant ' John Small, who came out
with the First Fleet, and whose daughter
Rebecca, afterwards Mrs. Frances Oakes,
was the first white person born in Australia.
* * * *
“A.V.M.”: “Bumble’s” inebriated bees
(B. 12/10/’32) certainly weren’t apis melh-
AND THAT’S BILLY TREGONIN’.
MRS. TREMEARNE: “I see old Billy Tregonin’ come rollin’ home
past daylight again.”
MRS. POLWORTHY: “Yes, he’m like old kitchen fire —smokes all
day and out all night.”
fica. U.S. beekeepers depend on the lime-
tree (under its Yankee cognomen of bass-
wood) for most of their prime honey. So
far from being intoxicating, lime, linden
or basswood honey is the bees’ favorite
drink, albeit a strictly T.T. one; and it
is fairly safe to say that no honey secreted
by fresh blossoms of any kind will intoxi-
cate bees or any other creatures. But
“Bumble” puts his foot in it deepest when
he says the honey-blotto bees sat around
next morning stinging their “best friends.”
A bee with a bellyful of honey never vol-
unteers an attack. The nalsty temper of
the bees mentioned was more probably due
to robbing—common enough when a copious
honey-flow has, for some reason or other,
suddenly been checked.
* * * *
“Tiki”: Many highly-colored stories have
been told about the occult powers of Maori
tohungas, but there are a few cases
on record in which the evidence has
been supplied by European observers of
probity and intelligence. General Cum-
mings, in his book “Old New Zealand,”
relates that a young chief who had been
appointed registrar of births and deaths
shared his office, and they became very
good friends. The young native was killed
by a fall, and his records could not be
discovered. The dead chief’s relatives were
greatly distressed at this —there is no race
on earth that better realises the importance
of genealogical data than the Maori —and
they told Cummings that they were going
to get a tohunga to bring the chief back
from the spirit-world so that he might dis-
close where he bad hidden his books. As
Cummings had been his good friend, he
could be present. The tohunga came, and
in a big whare, with no light but that given
by two fires, and with about thirty relatives
of the dead man squatting on the floor, the
seance was held. The tohunga said nothing.
All sat and waited, and the fires burned
very low. Suddenly a brisk voice that
seemed to come from the middle of the
whare said, in Maori, “Salutation to my
family, to my tribe, and to you, pakeha,
my friend.” It was the voice of the dead
chief, and this voice proceeded to give
minute directions for the disposal of his
property—an oral will, in fact. Cummings,
afraid the other business might be forgotten,
spoke out and asked where the registers
were concealed. Pi’omptly came the answer:
“Between the takuhu of my house and the
thatch; straight over you as you go in the
door.” A brother of the dead chief rushed
out and returned a few moments later with
the missing books. In this, as in all other
cases where there is European testimony, it
will be noted that intimate friendship with
a chief oF a tohunga was essential before an
outsider could touch even the fringe of
tobungaism.
AT KENEVAN’S.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
When we went forth, by starlit ways, on
youthful pleasure bent,
Long ere we broke from ties of home or took
to camp and tent,
Down river road and bridle path, all light
of heart, we’d ride
To where a farmhouse window gleamed a
welcome ne’er denied ;
Where, by convention undeterred, a noisy,
carefree pack,
We’d clear a space for dancing room and
roll the carpet back.
And there was none to say us nay, nor lack
of willing hands
To clear the floor at Ivenevan’s, along the
Tablelands.
’Twas there the old traditions held, the cus-
toms of the soil;
The kettles down at Kenevan’s were always
on the boil.
How clearly through the mists of time it all
comes back to mind :
The buggies in the homestead yard, the rails
with hackneys lined,
Long rooms with softly-shaded lamps, the
laugh and homely jest,
The cheerful greetings in the hall for some
belated guest;
The maidens light of heart and foot—to us it
always seemed
Some girl who came to Kenevan’s was she
of whom we’d dreamed.
If you and I, old mate, could only roll the
long years back,
And saddle up, some eventide, the chestnut
and the black,
And ride to that remembered farm, to chance
our luck among
The girls we kissed at Kenevan’s when you
and I were young!
victoria.
ELLENVALE.


Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and Jin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/- each, post free.
&/>e PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case-
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—fin. and fin.
Each
Dr set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
fsd
ANNOUNCING P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and C. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth &. Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and _
Agency Co., Ltd. &
“Nakh” : I have never met a woman who
hatched eggs in her bosom (B. 26/19/’32),
but I once lived in a British cable mess in
Java where the native cook was always
able to serve up a potato reasonably hot,
however late you turned up for a meal,
although the kitchen fire was out. One night
I was about to help myself to spuds
when a member of the mess innocently
informed me that the cook was in the habit
of keeping the vegetables warm by placing
them in his armpits. I helped myself to
marrow.
“STRUTH, I DIDN' KNOW I WAZH ZHAT BALD!”
“Pandanus”: In correcting my account
of the fish-traps of Darnley Island “N.N.L.”
(B. 19/10/’32) has quoted the tradition
of the Murray Islanders regarding the
origin of their island, whereas I mentioned
the tradition of the inhabitants of Darnley
concerning it. In .saying there 'Jiave
never been been whales in those waters
“N.N.L.” shows lie hasn’t been there very
long. It is a common thing to see a school
of whales in Cumberland Pass, and up to
the time I left Torres Strait, 1912, the
path' leading to the teacher’s residence
was bordered by joints from the backbone
of a whale which had stranded and died
on one of the numerous banks there.
* * * *
“Burst” : Farmers in the Campion district
(W.A.) have been plagued by thousands
of emus, which, driven in from the interior
by drought, have been playing the deuce
with the wheat crops. As the birds
roved about in great bands,
someone got the brilliant idea
of borrowing a machine-gun
section or two from the Defence
authorities. The latter came to
light with a couple .of Lewis guns
and tho party set out for the emu
front. The farmers had already
chivvied the birds until they were
as wild as hawks, and they seemed
to instinctively know what the
L.G. section was after. They
never gave the gunners a chance,
save in scattered groups and at
long ranges, taking refuge in the
thick scrub patches when hostili-
ties opened. So far the emu
casualties are trifling, and the
experiment has proved a distinct
dud. Perhaps now someone will
consider the advisability of poison-
ing a few bushels of wheat or
maize and laying the bait in fur-
rows for the fowls.
“Dogsbody”: The assertion of “Green
Chequers” (B. 12/10/’32) that homer
pigeons have no direction-finding sense apart
from landmarks and must be trained over
the route they fly is all bunk. During war-
time pigeons were used extensively by both
sides for message-carrying. I carried several
birds behind the lines in a ’plane over
country whose landmarks were changing con-
stantly. We made experimental tests first,
following them in the ’plane after release.
They invariably steered almost a bee-line
for home. If “Green Chequers” visits Lon-
don lie should go to Croydon and watch
the thousands of racing pigeons being loaded
on Imperial Airways liners for all parts of
the Continent weekly. Also I’d like him to
explain how a pigeon could be “trained”
to recognise all the landmarks between Lon-
don and Vienna.
“G.M.7”: I strenuously disagree with
“Double Express” (B. 12/10/’32), who
ar g Ues that tlip heavy hitting power of the
rifle . j s an asset to skin-shooters. I
, ono . ~ ~ _•. „ , ,
tried the .300 m North Quee sland on roos
in 1927, using mark VI ammunition, and on
the results of 500 shots can say that, though
hitting power is high, in stopping power this
rifle is definitely inferior to the long barrel
.32 Winchester using standard soft-nosed
cartridges. With the .303, the high velocity
imparted to the nickel bullet is the big draw-
back for ’roo-shooters because, unless the
bullet impacts on bone and consequently ex-
pands, the general result of a shot is a. neat
hole —clean through'. The Too will die all
right, but later on, and that’s no good to a
skin-shooter. With the flat-nosed .32, how-
ever, the stopping power is tremendous.
Having a lower velocity than .303 (about
1220 ft. sec. at the muzzle for a 115 gr.
FOOD RELIEF.
OFFICIAL (to dole applicant) : “Do you keep
a dog?”
DOLE APPLICANT: “We did—but we ate
him!”
bullet) and a softer nose, the lead brings
up all standing on impact, usually mush-
rooming and dropping the ’Too in his tracks.
* * * *
“China Straits”: “Pandanus” is talking-
bosh (B. 19/10/’32) when he says that it
is a common thing for Torres Strait and
Westralian dress-divers to come up from
28 or 39 fathoms in 20 seconds —by inflating
the dress with air—and then live. . It is
nearly 30 years since I first came in con-
tact with pearl-diving, and I never heard of
the inflation process being used save ln
desperate emergency and from shallow
depths. No man could come suddenly up
from 30 fathoms and be alive when taken
out of the dress. As to stopping down at
such a depth for two hours and a half, the
idea is ridiculous. At Darnley Island the
greatest depth' ever fished w T as 30 fathoms at
most. The claim that five minutes were
allowed for ascent, and that only a ‘ very
few cases of paralysis occurred.” is as in-
accurate as the rest. The graveyard at
Thursday Island is full of Japs killed in the
Darnley Hole, and it was their sad experi-
ence which led to the adoption of the. prac-
tice, now general wherever dress-diving is
carried on, of bringing up a diver in stages,
with a stop between each stage.
* * * *
“Mako”: An odd trait in the sheep-dog
turned killer is that frequently he takes
jolly good care not to molest his own
charges. This led to the detection of a very-
clever dog in M.L. The owner, finding
his sheep safe from the nightly ravages, and
having had experience in Scotland of this
trait in the working dog’s character, sus-
pected his most valuable animal, and tracked
it to a neighboring run, where he caught it
red-jawed. ITe shot it and three of its crimi-
nal associates, bringing home only the
“runner,” the small dog that almost invari-
ably leads the silent killers and the only one
to utter a sound during the foray. In this
case the “runner” was a prize Skye terrier,
who. being reprieved, was never again
allowed loose after dark.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: Flrom Sydney’s Taronga
Park Zoo a shipment comprising three dozen
assorted snakes and lizards, two wombats,
four porcupines and many different species
of Australian birds goes to Egypt for
the Cairo Zoo. This will give Taronga Park
a substantial credit balance in its account
with Cairo, and in return the Egyptian
authorities have been asked to dispatch
gazelles, springboks, Barbary sheep and
fennec foxes —whatever they may be. As I
write, the snakes are busy taking in stores.
The only way to ship snakes and lizards for
a long trip is to feed them up on dead frogs
for days before they go aboard. As long as
they are kept dry and warm they require no
further feeding until arrival at their des-
tination.
“Oro”: The richest gold-find of this
generation in M.L. has occurred in Central
Otago, on the Kawarau River, the scene,
thirty years or so ago, of great dredging
activity. The Kawarau, the Shotover and
other rivers connected with Lake Wakatipu
were worked out so far as dredges could
work them, but it has always been believed
that the dredges only skimmed the top ot
the gold deposits. In 1924 a eo. was formed
to build a great dam at Kawarau I alls, to
hold back the lake and enable the bed ot
the Kawarau to be prospected. The dam
was completed in 1926, and each winter
since the water has been held back and
the search for gold has been carried on by
various subsidiary cos., but with only insig-
nifica.nt success. During the last twelve
months or so the cos. have encouraged the
unemployed to join in the prospecting of
tho levels laid bare. The first really substan-
tial strike was made by two young miners,
Bell and Kilgour, particularly determined
fellows. They drove a 180 ft. tunnel through
sandstone river-bed formation and _ then
struck fairly heavy gold—quite the richest
in the history of the Kawarau dam enter-
prise. They are winning about £lOO
worth of the precious metal a week.. . The
lead runs athwart a number of adjoining
claims, and it has been reached by a 400 ft.
drive on one of these; Within a. week
every inch of the river frontage in the
vicinity, from Kawarau Gorge to four miles
downstream, was pegged, and the first gold
rush Maoriland has known for decades was
well on its way.
sit .* * *
“Bow-key”: A curious happening was
reported at Mittagong (N.S.W.) the other
day. One of a team of bullocks was found
dead on his back with his feet in the air
and his head doubled under a hind leg.
The solution was that he had attempted
to scratch an ear with a hind leg. The
point of a horn caught in the cartilage of
the hoof, and the poor brute, helpless to
free himself, died of suffocation.
* * * *
“One-Three”: A Bruthen (Gippsland)
family were about to start for church when
the son noticed a snake in the kitchen. The
reptile was disappearing down a hole in the
skirting, but the boy managed to plant the heel
of his boot on its tail. Dad’s angry “Hurrj’
up !” sounded, and Son had to think quickly.
He took a nail from his pocket, grabbed a
near-by boot and nailed the tail to the floor,
then hurried out. When the family returned
the snake had come out of the hole and was
pivoting around on the nail. Son dis-
patched it.
*** ■ *
“Pick”: “Aquila’s” belief (B. 2/11/’32)
that the enormous size of an eagle’s nest is
due to annual additions is erroneous. The
original edifice is planned with a wide plat-
form. Young eagles grow with amazing
rapidity, and in a week after emerging from
the eggs they occupy every inch of the nest
space. Then the platform is required to
hold the banquets of rabbits, lambs and
goannas that the old birds provide.
CLASS DISTINCTIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The shearer has been accustomed to regard the
picker-up as an inferior person and the shearers’
cook to look down on his fellow-craftsman who
dishes up for the rouseabouts.”
Account not caste distinction and division
The sad monopoly of mild Hindus
Although these subtleties provoke derision,
You’re apt t 0 find them anywhere you
choose.
Even among the toiling proletariat
The shearers’ culinary artist flouts
The chap who operates the commissariat
To victual less important rouseabouts.
In country towns the lawyer’s wife and
banker’s,
And oft the parson’s consort, I m air aid,
Are prone to label all as second-rankers
Who help to spin the wheels of retail
trade.
Sheer snobbery, of course, belovfed hearers,
A thing your soul contemptuously scouts,
And yet (observe) a man will cook for
shearers
Who’d jib at serving scran for rouse-
abonts!
From palaces to pubs, from courts to
stations,
You see these queer survivals from the
past,
These curious but well-defined gradations
Of status, and these steps and stairs of
caste.
Even ’mong comrades tried the notion
lingers,
A solid -axiom that no one doubts:
A gulf divides the bloke who cooks for
ringers
From him who juggles hash for rouse-
abouts.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
(Opp. Railway Station),
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms :: 200 Baths
mit ;n?si*
u
Melbourne's Most Modern Hotel.
Rates per day: '
Room and meals from . 22/6
Room and Breakfast from 12/6
PROGRESS
If you contemplate the future, as we all can and do, you must
gather some conception of the enormous progress that civilisation will
inevitably make within the probable period of your life.
You must realise, too, that such progress will be the sum total of
all individual endeavors. Thus you will realise, no doubt have already
accepted, your own part in this great forward movement which is
progress. If you are to play your part valuably, you must not be a
drag upon any other section of the community, but in one respect at
least you can provide against this.
The Savings Account will help you build your career, help you
to independence, and therefore to a useful place as a citizen. Very
little money is required to start an account, which will cost you only
the decision to open it, and to faithfully maintain >t, for your own
and, therefore, for the general national welfare.
Commoiiwcaltb Savings JBankof Australia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government.)
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
SMOKE-OH!
How about changing the name to Judged
Swindell?
* *
Anyway, this Mrs. Edols is one woman
who can’t be accused of being talkative.
* *
“Prison warders complain that with reduced staffs
they are given too much to do.”
It is known as casting toil on troubled
warders.
* *
“To escape the crowds, Bradman locked himself in
a compartment until the stations were passed.”
- — Melb. “Herald.”
As usual, a hard man to get out.
H* H* \
WINNING JOCKEY’S STORY.
What He Told the Reporter :—
“I am indeed glad that I accepted the
ride; it was a wise choice, made after care-
iul deliberation. I got away to an excel-
lent start and without much effort my mount
moved up among the leaders. The pacemakers
showed remarkable stamina, but we forged
gradually to the front. The struggle was
tense; I could hear nothing but the deep,
quick breathing of the gallant animal I
was bestriding and the pounding- of his hoofs.
Presently two others drew up alongside, but
the champion was not to be denied; he
fought on gallantly like the real thorough-
bred he is, pacing it determinedly with his
rivals. The race was on now, three great
horses in line fighting for mastery; it was
a clean, sporting battle, without even a hint
of interference. Riding resolutely, I had the
luck to land my mount a winner by a short
head. The other jockeys complimented me
warmly on my win during our ablutions in
the dressing-room. They are fine sportsmen,
one and all.”
What He Told His Pal:—
“I didn’t fancy the prad at all, but ’e
was the only one on offer, so I took ’im on.
I got a rotten start, but managed to push
through to the leaders. The other crocks
soon tired an’ I found myself in front. The
lads cursed like ’ell, but my troubles! At
the five furlongs blarst me if the monkey
I was steering didn’t try to chuck it. Then
’e wants to run out, but I yanked ’im back
some’ow. He’s the most stubborn brute I
ever sat on. His owner ought to shoot him.
At one stage the lads wanted ‘rough-house,’
so I give it to ’em. The other boys got to
me in the dressing-room afterwards and gave
me a helluva belting. Mangy curs, that’s
what they are.
J.
* *
Epitaph for Tin Hare magnate: “He
touched nothing that lie did not suborn.”
¥ *
“Blonde women are more honest than brunettes.”
-— Melb. magistrate.
“Fair and square,” as the saying goes.
* ¥
“Asked if he had committed bigamy, witless
admitted the act.”— “Sun.”
These comps, certainly have a flair for
the right word.
SOCIETY PILGRIM’S PROGRESS.
The unfashionable suburban life. The
passionate yearning for a place in the “Sun.”
The envious study of details of parties given
by Air. and Mrs. Gibber-
former residents of your
suburb, who were no better
than you and your wife till
Gibber brought off his last
ramp. The speechless fury at
the discovery that one of the
“Sun” scribes has begun to
refer to Gibber as “Algy.”
The shattering news that Mrs.
Gibber has been entertaining
leading members of the
Banana Beach set (including
the -“Wuff” Moron-Smiths,
the “Bill” Asinines, the
“Reggie” Blottos and an
advertising A.D.C.) at a
cocktail party.
The stroke of luck. The move to Potts
Point. The mention in a back page of the
"Sun” that you and your wife have been
at a party given by your smart new friends
the “Ike” Cohensteins. The resulting rap-
ture. The abysmal gloom on finding that
your name has been misspelt. The meeting,
after a lapse of years, with the Gibbers.
Their sickeningly condescending ways. The
introduction to the A.D.C. The invitation
to a Government House garden party. The
ditching of the Cohensteins. The ultra-
smart B.Y.T. binge. The bestial drunkenness
of Gibber. The maudlin insobriety of Airs.
Gibber. The surprising intimation next day
that the binge was “a terrific success,” and
that “ ‘Algy’ Gibber —always so amusing, my
dear —was the life and soul of the_ show.”
The uneasy suspicion that the Gibbers are
n*t as important socially as the press girls
are leading the outer suburbs to believe.
The further stroke of luck. The move to
Bellevue Hill. The ditching of the Gibbers.
The unpleasant scene with Gibber in the Aus-
tralia. The firm repudiation of the Banana
Beach set. The gradual shunting of the
advertising A.D.C. The rage at the dis-
covery that the press girls are beginning to
refer to you by your Christian name. The
dumb fury on reading that you had been seen
at Banana Beach with the “Algy” Gibbers,
the “Bill” Asinines, the “Reggie” Blottos
“Is your dirt-box full, Mrs. Casey?”
“I don’t know. He’s not home yet.”
and the advertising A.D.C. The indignant
denial by telephone. The press girl’s abject
apology.
The fashionable suburban life. The pas-
sionate yearning to be denied a place in the
“Sun.” The gradual disappearance of your
name, and that of your wife from the Society
news. The consciousness that you have got
there at last.
10-2-4.
* #
“The League of Nations is reducing its staff.”
— Cable,
As long as it doesn’t reduce armaments
nobody seems to mind what it does.
¥ *
Another result of the depression is the
marked increase of insolvencies among
bottle-ohs.
* *
Manufacturers are calling him the Lyons
of least assistance.
* #
“In Melbourne 6000 fowls died from a disease
for which there is no known remedy.”
“Herald.”
Further heavy losses are expected next
month from an incurable malady of which
|he first and only symptom is a sharp pain
in the neck.
ANOTHER MAMMOTH COMPETITION.
The “Blah’s” £lOOO Special for Cricket
Enthusiasts.
The unprecedented success of the “Blah’s”
recent competitions on the results of the
Spring races, when £5OOO in prize money was
offered, encourages us in the belief that they
are still being born every minute. No reader
succeeded in winning a
major prize, but no less
than £2 10s. 6d. was dis-
tributed in consolation
prizes. Miss Norah
Pimbles, of Surry Hills,
went closest to landing the
£lOOO. She succeeded in
correctly placing the first,
second and third horses in
the Caulfield and Mel-
bourne Cups. Unfortu-
nately her forecasts of
jockeys, starting prices,
tote dividends, gate tak-
ings, number of motor-
cars present and dresses
worn by lady members of
the vice-regal party were
incorrect. Still, she col-
lects a consolation prize of
£1 Is. and a year’s free
subscription to the “Blah.”
No wonder her friends are
congratulating her!
Now for our Great
Cricket Competition. ONE
THOUSAND POUNDS
will be paid to the “Blah”
reader who sends in (duly
accompanied by the
Coupon on page 7) a
CORRECT FORECAST
of the following :
Australia’s aggregate score
in each innings.
England’s aggregate score
in each innings.
Individual scores of both
sides, in correct bat-
ting order.
Bowling analyses of both sides.
Official attendance.
Number of days, hours and minutes occupied
by match.
Number of “sensations” which will be re-
corded in the “Blah” in connection with
the match.
General trend of comment of “London
Times,” “Daily Mail,” and “Los Angeles
Examiner” on the result.
In the event of no reader sending in a
WHOLLY ACCURATE forecast, the sum
of THREE GUINEAS will be awarded as
Consolation Prizes for the NEAREST COR-
RECT SOLUTIONS.
The decision of the “Blah’s” sporting
editor to be FINAL.
Readers may send in as many solutions
as they please. PROVIDED EACH IS
ACCOMPANIED BY A COUPON.
J. P.
it’s ridiculous of people to pay for single
tickets in the N.S.W. Lottery and expect
“returns.”
* V
“Manufacturers are incensed at the efforts now
being made to ban the ‘raspberry’ toy.”
Some go so far as to say the toy should
be declared a protected “bird.”
¥ ¥
TI-IE “DISHRAG” attends the test.
All smiles, and attired in spotless flannels
that bespoke Savile Row in every line, the
English XI took the field this morning. As
they walked through the gate Slogget was
heard to crack a joke with Smack—ample
evidence of the excellent team spirit that
exists among the tourists. The tall, svelte
captain wore liis famous tartan • cricket
boots and fuji shirt edged with the M.C.C
colors. A “Casual’s” cap, a “Free Forester's”
scarf and an “Emeriti” sweater completed
the color scheme. He has gained three ounces'
since his last visit, but we noticed a silver
hair in his neatly-barbered head —an asset,
by the way. Grey-haired skippers invari-
ably command respect from both amateurs
and professionals. Another reason why he
should be ranked with the great leaders of
the past is to be found in his willingness
to join his team-mates in their amusements.
On the ship he was successful in the open
Poker Machine tournament.
A feature of to-day’s play was the toss.
The coin used is on its third tour of
tralia. It has also been twice round the
West Indies and has visited India four times
and South Africa thrice. The most interest-
ing point about Bumpem, who opened the
bowling, is that he was formerly a coal-
miner. He is twenty-four years of age and
weighs sixteen stone —England’s heaviest
opening bowler since McPodge. However,
the most popular bowler with the crowd was
Longliop. He was for some time undecided
whether to make the trip, as he was loath
to leave his cat Whiskers to weather the
Yorkshire winter alone. During the day
it was rumored that Chaser, who fielded near
the boundary, is taller than the captain.
Following its policy of service, the “Dishrag
is definitely able to announce that the skipper
wins by an eighth of an inch. Chaser, by
the way, says that his favorite pastime is
dancing. Another interesting point in the
day’s play was the discovery that the Rajah
“But, my dear — there’s absolutely no harm in what we
did. Why, she’s very attached to her husband.”
“Yes, but that’s not her fault. She tried to get a
divorce from him, and couldn’t.”
of Punjitabad is not as dark as most of his
compatriots who have played in this, coun-
try.
Play ended with the Rajah asking
Stumper, whose gloves are of the very latest
design in mauve and banana yellow, for a
cigarette. What carefree camaraderie! Has
a happier English XI ever stepped on to
the emerald sward of the Sydney Cricket
Ground ?
Ced.
¥ *
DARLINGHURST ITEM.
Nude Flats were once shamed by the row
Caused by tenants who revelled in beer;
They’re highly respectable now —■
They’ve been empty for over a year.
N.
“Scientists have succeeded in splitting the atoni.”
But we still award the palm to the two
Scots whom we saw splitting a pub whisky.
* *
“Backless bathing costumes have received the
sanction of the Manly beach inspector.”— “Telegraph.”
Bondi girls would welcome such inspec-
tion. They say that they, too, wish to
conceal nothing.
* *
“Melbourne ‘Age’ has been featuring a series of
articles on ‘The Half-forgotten Book of the Week.’ ”
We hear that .the next series will be “The
Book that Most of Us Would Like to Forget
Altogether,” beginning with the Bank-book.
JOHN-O.
The gulpin’ waves ran round the ship
Like ’ungry dogs t 0 tear a stag;
An’ ev’ry time she give a dip
We seen inside the Devil’s bag.
But John-o, settin' on a board
(’E ’ad no ’ome, no kids nor wiff),
Bang “Allelujah! Praise the Lord!”
IFi v garlic punchm' through ’is zijf.
So strong a gust, the bos’n’s whale
(A fish wot knoo ’is way about)
Closed bofe ’is blow’oles win ’is tail
In case it turned ’is inside out.
’E gasped; an' Jolxn-o, down ’is front,
Stared kind, of scornful, wiv a grin,
Which rudeness got the captain’s goat —
An’ so ’e chucked the prophet in!
Then, suddenly, the sea was still;
An’ hell-for-leather to the shore
The finner flew, where ’e took ill,
r An’ John-o staggered from his maw.
Tt made the shellbacks laugh and play
To see the (most improper noun !)
Salute the whale an’ seem to say
‘lt’s ’ard to keep a good man down.”
HUGH MCCRAE, A. B.
CUPID-ITY.
“Love often causes a young man to get into debt.”
—Sydney magistrate.
At lovers and their ways I scoff;
Their ecstasies I vaunt not.
The beak’s remark has warned me off —
“Waist not and you shall want not!”
P.


Every Evening...
there is no better aid to
relaxation than a glass of
that true lager—Tooth’s
K B—rich in the vitamins
that come from pure malt
and freshly picked hops.
Try a bottle to-night.
A 0L
m
a
%
*
%
#
2N
1
.;'v,
Jr
*
f A
JK/5
TOOTH’S
LAGER


the SCENIC
PLAYGROUND
of the PACIFIC
Hare—in this fascinating land—lie deep-sea fishing
grounds, lakes and rivers teeming with trout, thermal valleys
with their spouting geysers and boiling pools, Maori "pahs,"
mountain chateaux, beautiful sounds, fiords, glaciers and
mountain peaks—all within a few days' travel of each other.
Write for complete information, suggested
tours, fares, etc.
LETTER OF CREDIT TOURS.
Genuine tourist visitors can obtain
travel tickets, accommodation, etc., at
will in New Zealand, AND SAVE
EXCHANGE by booking with any N.Z.
Govt. Tourist Bureau in Australia.
N.Z. Government Tourist Bureau,
Box 365 F, Martin Place, Sydney,
and at 59 William Street, Melbourne.
Please send me illustrated leaflets
and full details of a holiday in New
Zealand.
NAME
ADDRESS &
pettoV
£ t \tisn
coir
PLUS
PLU
S
The New
BLUE Petrol . . .
“C.O.R” Plus is tinted
blue to denote the pre-
sence of a special com-
pound of lead which
gives controlled com-
bustion, and freedom
from pinking with to-
day’s higher compression
ratios. A minute quan-
tity of harmless aniline
dye gives “C.O.R” Plus
the blue colour which
is your guarantee that
you are getting what
you pa'y for.
MODERN MOTORS
NEED THIS MODERN FUEL
• - AND OLD CARS TOO/
“C.O.R” Plus has brought Australia into line with modern motoring
standards. Car owners everywhere are talking of it . . . They just
can’t help it. For never have they known such power, performance
and smoothness, such uncanny freedom from pinking. The modern
trend towards higher compressions demands a modern petrol—
demands that “little extra something” that “C.O.R” Plus possesses . . .
Overseas motorists have proved it —that’s why coloured “leaded”
petrols are the most popular fuels to-day in Great Britain, Canada
and U.S.A.... That “little something” makes an astonishing difference.
WHAT ABOUT YOU ?
a new sensation in motoring.
Have you tried it yet? If
you haven’t, you’re missing
COM
PLUS
WHAT?
PLUS A LITTLE SOMETHIN6
OTHERS HAVENT GOT
• • and for tractor owners!
f COR
fs
POWER KEROSENE
.. . the result of improved kerosene
refining . . . something distinctly in
advance of ordinary tractor fuels....
Order a trial drum to-day.
C.46/16/32.
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd.),
Poolman St., Port Melb. 117 Pitt St., Sydney. Agents for S. Australia and Queensland : Dalgety & Co. Ltd.’
SEAL OF GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVERY BOTTII
lo
Uff.
'■i-:
Isft
BS.
ETAT MEANS
"STATE viz
OWNED BV THE
STATE OF FItANCE
BOTTLED & GUARANTEED
PURE BY THE FRENCH
GOVERN MEN?
śd
The .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen*
ncity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters.is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
CELESTINX is the
NAME OF THE SPHINC
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
following statement defies contradiction ;
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what vou should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumat-
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs, restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the -eorld.
insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.
Sxamine the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes.
Sole Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER,
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
STATE Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
DISTRIBUTORS : SOUTH AUSTRALIA :
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
16 Bridge Street, Svcinev, NS.VV.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
Water
where you want ft /
and when you want it /
A plentiful supply of water at convenient points is invalu-
able to the man on the land. Here are two Pumps often
used for that purpose.
“Acme”
Lilt & Force Pumps
Splendid Pumps for all-round use on the
land—general pumping, spraying, irriga-
tion, filling tanks, fire fighting, etc.
fs
dfs
A long handle and cog-
gear give great leverage,
making operation much
easier.
The “Acme’-’ will give an
output of approximately
1600 gals, per hour. It is
fitted for 2in. pipes. The
“Ajax,” a similar type,
gives 700 gals, per hour
and is fitted for llin. pipe.
Other sizes of pipe, of
course, may be used. Fur-
ther particulars on appli-
cation.
Rapid” Centrifugal Pumps
A Centrifugal has the
greatest capacity of
any Pump for its size,
and is generally used
for lower heads and
larger capacities than
Plunger Pumps.
“Kapid” Pumps are
of the most modern
design. In Single
Stage (for heads up
to 50ft.), Two Stage
(for heads up to
100 ft.) and Multi
Stages. AH sizes from
2in. upwards. Par-
ticulars on request.
m
m
If considering the installation of pumps to improve your water supply
this summer, ask for our Pump Expert’s Free Advice before you buy.
It will be given without obligation.
FREE!
We have recently issued an ex-
tremely useful Catalogue of Tools
and Hardware for Farm and Home.
In addition to nearly 250 pages
of illustrations and descriptions of
over 1400 articles, there are many
pages of valuable information com-
piled by a competent authority.
The many subjects included make
Catalogue No. 33 a splendid refer-
ence book for the man on the land.
Proprietanj limited
“Dependable Good
Since 1860.”
To make sure that you secure a copy,
fill in and send this coupon now.
Please send me, Post Free, a copy.
of your Catalogue No. 33.
NAME 1
ADDRESS
I
51 Bathurst Street - - - - SYDNEY
582 Collins Street - - - MELBOURNE
116 Waymouth Street - - ADELAIDE
532 Murray Street PERTH


THIS LARGE INSURANCE COMPANY
CONSIDERED THE “COURIER” TO BE
The Very Best Medium
The Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance Co. sought the most effective and economical
method of making an announcement to Queensland people. They chose the “Brisbane
Courier,” and wrote us:—
“ you may be interested to know that those present were unanimous in
saying that the ‘Brisbane Courier’ was the very best medium, for that teas the
paper they always noticed in the homes of the people with whom they came in
contact.
{Signed) “A. J. HENDERSON,
“General Manager
The “Brisbane Courier” has been “the very best medium” for 87 years.
IShe
Brisbane Courier
Representative: ROBT. D. FISHER, 7// Pitt Street, Sydney — Bsool.
$\
wiE
W 1?
ss> .rSt
tS«2"tW
UP V<*
\t
W®'> t ,«'« WV is
V?tf
\wto £
iovC
,e&
tYve
\at
ae '.l-v, ea® c - „
Cor va° vC
W& x *
aXX O^
fS^ x^
df
sdf
«?s£-
wte £*&*»***
PRICE, 65/-
With grange, 5/- extra.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.0., Box 71, Melb. C.l.
s
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
OVERCOMING SOIL EROSION.
Soil erosion has been the subject of a
good many articles and paragraphs on the
M.O.L. pages. From experiments conducted
on the Cowra (N.S.W.) Government farm,
H. J. Kelly, manager of that enterprise, and
L. Judd, manager of the equally successful
experiment farm at Temora, are satisfied
that it can be effectually controlled —on
wheat land, at all events —by broad-base
contour drains.
These drains, Messrs. Judd and Ryan
write, “consist of low banks of earth across
the slope to arrest the flow of surplus sur-
face water, and wide sloping drains on the
upper side of the banks to collect the water
and convey it slowly to a suitable outlet.
The gradual slope permits of the maximum
absorption of the surplus water, thereby
making use of water which would otherwise
be a destructive agent. The banks vary
from Ift. to ljft. in height and are approxi-
mately Oft. wide, with the open drain of
similar width. Where possible, the banks
should be of such a height and nature as to
allow of the passage of teams across them,
since there is then no loss due to uncropped
land, and there is no idle ground to harbor
weeds. Where possible also the outlet for
the drain should be on to a road, permanent
pasture paddock or natural watercourse.
“If an outlet of this class is not available
a wide drain will have to be made into which
the water can flow. The laying down of
such a drain to lucerne or sub. clover, where
suitable, would materially aid in the preven-
tion of washing; at Temora surplus water
from the drains constructed in a cultivation
paddock was turned on to an adjoining
lucerne paddock, and a remarkable increase
of growth in the lucerne followed.
“The aim is to convey the water away
with a minimum of velocity to prevent the
soil particles from being carried away and
damage done to the bank of the drain.”
Therefoi’e: “(1) The correct grade must be
obtained when constructing the drain; (2)
drain and bank must be of ample propor-
tions; (3) the vertical distance between the
contour drains must be in direct accordance
with the area and the slope of the land to
be drained. Experience has shown that a
fall of lin. in 16ft. Sin. will give the requisite
grade to carry water slowly and without
damage to the drain, other things being
equal. Capacity of the drain and the dimen-
sions of the bank will be governed by several
factors: (a) the area which the contour
drain has to eater for; (Z>) the .slope of the
area; (c) the type of soil; (d) the length
of the drain.”
The important facts which these agricul-
tural research workers have established are
being outlined in a series of articles, the
first of which appears in the November
“Gazette.” Many a wheat-farmer in “wet”
country will be glad that the worrying pro-
blem of soil erosion has been solved.
CHANGING THE ROTATION.
G. L. Sutton, the Westralian Director of
Agriculture, is satisfied from experiments
carried out on the Merredin State farm that
the time has arrived for a change from the
hitherto accepted rotational system. Fallow-
wheat-pasture, Mi’. Sutton says, has one,
conspicuous defect —in the Westralian wheat
belt, at all events —it fails to control take-
all. The Director suggests that the altera-
tion should be on the following lines: —
Year. Paddock 1. Paddock 2. Paddock 3.
1 Wheat Pasture Fallow
2 Fallow Pasture Wheat
3 Wheat Pasture Fallow
4 Pasture • Fallow ’ Wheat
5 Pasture Wheat Fallow
6 Pasture Fallow Wheat
7 Fallow Wheat Pasture
8 Wheat Fallow Pasture
9 Fallow Wheat Pasture
Merredin experience is that this rotation
maintains the fertility of heavy soils, im-
proves light soils, checks the growth of
wild oats, barley grass and take-all, and
controls other weeds.
FURROW-PLANTING FAVORED.
“Hortus” : Experiments in maize-planting,
extending over seven years, have been
brought to a conclusion at the Hawkesbury
A. C. by J. A. Williamson. During the
seven years a fairly representative cycle of
seasonal conditions was experienced. Some
plots were surface-sown with a maize-
dropper ; others were furrow-sown, the
dropper placing the seed 2in. .below the
bottom of a furrow 3in. deep. The latter
was opened up by means of a double-breasted
mouldboard plough immediately before the
sowing. Tlie soil is a deep, alluvial clay
loam.
The dead maize stalks of the old crop were
burned ; the land was ploughed during June
to a depth of Tin. to Sin. and harrowed. It
was then left in the rough until mid-
August, when it was again ploughed to a
depth of sin. The plots were then cultivated
to get them in as suitable a state as possible
to receive the seed in October. Large Red
Ilogan was the variety selected ; it was sown
at the rate of 941 b. of seed per acre, in rows
44ft. apart, three seeds being dropped every
32in. in the rows. Super. —lewt. per acre —
was applied. Such after-cultivation as was
thought necessary was carried in order
to keep the surface from “caking,” and to
prevent weed-growth. Hand-harvesting took
place usually about the end of May or in
June.
In the result the furrow-grown method
consistently outyiclded the surface method
in both good and bad seasons. The more
adverse the season the greater was the dif-
ference in favor of the furrow plants. Aver-
age yield of furrow-grown maize for the
seven years was 44 bushels 31b.; of surface-
grown, 35 bushels 251 b. In the furrow method
the maize was sown in contact with the moist
sub-surface soil, resulting in a more even and
better germination in a dry spring. Even
in a good spring and early summer the
furrow-sown maize came away two. to three
days earlier and maintained a slight lead
until early in December. Examinations of
root systems showed that the roots of
furrow-sown maize grew deeper, giving the
plants a better root-hold to withstand heavy
winds (thus reducing lodging), and provid-
ing a greater foraging area. These results
were obtained under comparatively low-rain-
fall conditions. Where heavy spring and
summer rains are common, the furrow
system, the experimentalist considers, might
not answer, owing to the liability of water-
logging before germination. In heavy soils
again this method might not prove success-
ful, as a hard crust is liable to form before
plants are above ground. But with deep
spring cultivation and moderate rainfall, the
furrow method is clearly preferable to sur-
face sowing.
MT. GARNET FOR TOBACCO.
From G. W. Porter, secretary of the Mt.
Garnet (N.Q.) Chamber of Commerce:—
In reply to a question (B. 5/10/’32) as to where
tobacco is grown in Australia, “Brisbane north
to Mareeba” is given as one of the principal districts.
Correct, but our chamber would like to add that
Mt. Garnet, which is included in “Brisbane north to
Mareeba,” is particularly well-favored for the expan-
sion of this industry. Twenty-one farmers grew leaf
last season, and, although the industry was really
only in the experimental stage, good results were
secured. For example, 64 tons of leaf from one farm
averaged 3s. 2ld. per pound. From another farm
came two tons at 3s. 2d., and a further lot averaged
3s. Some of the leaf topped the market for Queens-
land-grown tobacco. Smaller lots sold at 2s. lOd.
to 3s. per pound.
All these farmers, together with several new ones,
are getting land ready for planting for the coming
season. There is room for many more—Crown land,
too.
The climate is favorable to the growing of leaf in
regard to texture and aroma. Water can be had by
sinking 12ft. to 30ft.; also, in many places there is
abundance of surface water.
ANOTHER WORD FOR IRRIGATION.
“Buckwong”: I have known 12 acres,
irrigated in a makeshift manner, to keep
the stock off 1200 acres of ordinary pasture
through a whole season. The smaller the
holding the more valuable in proportion any
kind of irrigation becomes. It is an insurance
against drought, a means of raising continu-
ous carrying capacity, and a way of increasing
the profit to be got from that top-dressing
which is becoming a chief element in up-to-
date farming. And every stream, every hill-
side spring and permanent waterhole (to
say nothing of our vast underground reser-
voirs) offers possibilities for small-scale
installations and schemes too large for the
individual. There is even, as a contributor
showed (B. 19/10/’32), a word to be said
for the putting in of dams for gardens.
While pipe-services supplying spraying
systems are the ideal, much may yet be done
by the simplest and cheapest means. For
instance, a race carried round a slope may
be tapped at short intervals, and the water
spread out over surprisingly large areas,
without expense, danger of waterlogging or
the rise of poisonous minerals. When a
man has seen—as I have—a green spot on
a hillside made to yield half the living of
a family at the expense of a few hundred
feet of small piping, he. begins to realise
what opportunities are lying waste in every
direction.
COW-COCKYING IN RIVERINA.
“Valeria”: The expansion of the dairying
industry throughout Riverina is unprece-
dented ; nearly every farmer close to a town
is getting together a few cows, whitewash
and cement, and the clatter of the cream-can
is loud in the land. The farmers are find-
ing the fortnightly cash far sweeter than the
uncertain wool- or wheat-cheque that comes
only onco a year. In their eagerness these
men are overlooking the most essential fac-
tor of their business, and that is building
up a fodder reserve. Many years of good
seasons have H ad .. e o aq 6 qTcml
droughts of 1888, 1901-02, 190*-08, 1913-1
and 1918-19. V e are due for another. Unless
they get a move on thousands of cow-cockies
are going to be wiped out; yet _0 acres or
oaten crop and a doO-yard pit will make
them reasonably safe, and outside their
own labor the cost is practically nil,
PREVENTION OF BRUISING.
“Rocky”: In the past Queensland meat-
works were accustomed to buy fat . cattle
in the paddock. This season they paid you
on a frozen-weight basis, according to quality.
No more taking delivery on trucks, and
accepting all the risks and losses! Owners
who regarded their beasts as well-nigh per-
feet have been sorely troubled when they got
account sales showing only 60 or 70 p.c.
first quality, the balance being classed as
seconds and rejects, through imperfections
mainly brought about by bruising.
Study of the problem has shown that
bruising in certain parts can be minimised
by careful trucking, and attention cn route
by experienced men, and that the tipping
of horns almost stops shoulder-bruising.
Further, the- covering of the flooring in the
trucks with ashes from the smoke-box has
helped cattle to keep their feet and remain
more comfortable during the trip. By in-
sisting on these preventive measures owners
have had grading up to 95 p.c.
The ideal method, of course, is to breed
polled cattle, or in the alternative to dehorn
beasts. But for graziers who persist in keep-
become 1 °a necessity °
methods outl ned - y-
TTrrvirsi
rAUIjIi niuno.
“Yarri”: Stock-department officers and
tanners complain of the heavy annual loss
that results from the excessive branding
and bad flaying and curing of hides. On
stations where I have observed these matters
there was nothing so carelessly treated as
the hide. Only rarely was there a skilled
butcher on the premises; the work was
done by stockmen, fencers, the gardener and
the ploughman, or any other three or four
station hands available. The hide was
scored and cut by unskilled or careless nay-
ing, then spread on the floor of a shed and
a handful or two of salt, thrown over it.
The next hide went on top, and that was
continued until there was a pile of them,
drying and hardening for months.
Any man with care and a little practice
can get a hide off without cutting it.
Every slip takes something off its value,
just as the brand does when dabbed on the
prime parts. Curing also needs only a
little care. It is better to fold the hide up
neatly and tie it as soon as it is cured than
to leave it in a spread heap. Another im-
portant thing is to see that the hide is clean,
Batches of flesh on the inner side and blood
on the hairy side not only hamper the
curing but attract flies. The blood should
be washed off at once, and the hide spread
liair-side .up until the wet has dried oil
before being placed in the shed tor salting.
All scraggy ends and points should tie cut
off; they are of no use and give trouble in
curing. ... , „
A sheep pelt is simple to take oft, as
very little knife work, is needed. There is
no advantage in leaving the dangling leg-
points on, unless there is a good giowth ot
wool on them and the market or tannery is
not far away. The skins dry in an hour or
two- what spoils them is leaving them hang-
ing for weeks on the fence. They should be
put on a spreader while fresh and limp,
and when thoroughly dry, brushed over with
arsenate of soda (4oz. 'to Igal. water) or
some other solution to keep away weevils
and other pests. The skins can then be
packed away and, being straight and with-
out crinkle's, are handy to press into
bundles.
Branding faults are difficult to overcome,
The requirement of cattlemen is to have
the station brand and the year-number
where they can be seen in a mob, or from
above when running through the. drafting
yards. Though it might tend to inconveni-
ence in working, the number at least could
be placed on the cheek, or on the neck, a
little back from where the head is taken
o ff.
HONEY AS STOCK FOOD,
“Bogaduck”; Low-grade Australian honey
} s well-nigh unsaleable. Most beekeepers
] iave stocks and don’t know what to do
w j th j t And yet it is excellent stock food,
especially when the cows and horses are put
0 n to dry feed. Pour it on the chaff in
the mangers and mix in well. Feed it to
them for a week or two, then give them a
feed without it, and watch them nose the
chaff over in a disgusted way. Honey is
almost as cheap as molasses, is more appe-
tising, and for food value it beats molasses
out of sight. Moreover it has slightly laxa-
tive properties which keep stock in health,
At the moment you can get it for ss. to
7s. per 601 b. tin, free on rail.
PREVENTION OF LUNGWORM.
“Sativa” • Lungworm rn sheep was more
alent in this district (Upper Hunter,
N.S.W.) last winter than ever before. Severe
losses occurred on the poorer soils and the
I .j c j l vo i C anic country was not immune. In
over y instance the cause could be traced to
overstocking and rabbits. Lungworms are
paras it eg lying dormant in some sheep, assert-
• themselves only when their hosts are
undernourished.
You can’t cure stricken sheep by drench-
ing, but there is a way of prevention—keep-
j ng t ] ie pastures in good heart. A few'
WC eks’ spell will freshen paddocks that have
been eaten short, and store cattle will clean
np paddocks where old rough grass has
accumulated. They can usually be obtained
cutting the agistment price. It pays in
this instance to crowd them on and get them
o ff ag SO on as they have done their job ;
after a few weeks the pastures are right
f or s hccp again. I cashed my rough feed
i as t winter for £l5O, and a dealer with 300
steers thought it a bargain.
My advice to flock-owners who feel im-
polled to carry more stock is to make lucerne
their ally. Carrying capacity can be in-
creased wdthout injury to sheep by putting
e y en 5 p . c . G f the grazing area under lucerne,
j n sma ll paddocks. This enables grazing
paddocks to be spelled for one month in every
f our . j n our district Wimmera rye grass,
SOWn with lucerne, is valuable for the cold
mo nths when the lucerne growth is restricted.
INCREASING FRUITFULNESS IN
VINES
« Kilkivan » . A discovery bv a blocker at
Merbein (Vic.) that his vines carried more
fruit when the canes were lightly tipped has
been investigated by the Mildura research,
workers. A number of canes were tipped
j n ear ] y November, as soon as they had
reached' a suitable length to be laid down
j n t j lo f o i] oW ing pruning season (i.e., to a
i on gth of 16 buds) , by removing a few inches
0 p grow ing tip. These ivere marked
an( j compared with a number of similar
eanPS i e f{ untipped. In every case the re-
sults were the same at next bud-burst. The
tipped canes were more fruitful; up to 20
pc more buds carried bunches when
they burst. This operation apparently
c becks the elongation of the cane and pro-
f]uceg leaves and light laterals at the buds
a ] ong the cane. These seem to increase the
capacity of the base buds to differentiate
;,,t 0 fruit buds.
According to investigations over a nnm-
ber of years carried out at Mildura by Mr.
Lyon, the crop for the ensuing season is
f ormec i from mid-November to mid-Decem-
ber. The base buds begin to form into
potential fruit buds first, and the process
moves in regular progression along the
C ane. The tipping, therefore, has the effect
0 j steadying the growth at the critical
period and allowing the differentiation to
g 0 on w jtb greater certainty. Varieties which
are inclined to be shy bearers after the first
f cw years, when treated in this fashion have
g i ven good crops. The operation should not
b e confused with an operation often carried
on t by vignerons—a drastic topping in-
discriminately of all growing shoots. Such
hard topping, especially late in the season,
is injurious in most cases, particularly in
noil-irrigated vineyards.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED,
<■ .
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Method of mixing a cow drench so as to
have it readyf —3o3o.
You do not state for what purpose the
drench is to be used. A drench frequently
used on farms for cows immediately after
calving consists of lib., of Epsom salts and
lib. of treacle mixed in 1 quart of water,
What is the most efficient temperature of
the various substances for (1) setting milk
t 0 skim by hand? (2) To skim by sepa-
rator? (3) To make butter? (4) What is
the loss in hand-skimming compared until
separation? —272o.
(1) Temperatures vary with the method
used. In what is known as the shallow-
pan system, wdiere the milk is placed in
shallow pans about 4in. deep, the tempera-
ture is about 60deg. Fahr. In the deep-set-
ting method, where the milk is poured into
(Continued on next page.)


i m
~ ...v. ,
mm.
m
m
m
M
am
■k
i :
m
■
■
■.a
L J
■
«
m
m
Four fittings per size
Narrow, medium, wide and extra
wide. . . .this Abbey Shoe is made
in all those widths, for every size.
It has a heavy sole, and the upper
is made on an exclusive Abbey last
that perfectly accommodates the
curve of the instep arch.
ORDER BY POST: State both width and
size, and ask, also, for a supply of Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK CALF . . . . 33/6
TAN CALF 33/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 307
r ARMERS
P/
L RuralTopics.Dairying.
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
Horticulture. Veterinary
1.. Notes Etc....A1l in „
ITHE AUSTRALASIAN
■ ON SALE ALL STATES 62
Wilkinson Safety Razor
MADE IN ENGLAND.
dfs
groon
blao^ 8
EMPIRE MODELS.
Set.
E.7—Self-stropping Razor, complete with two
Hollow-ground Blades and Strop, in
Oak Case 14/6
li.lo—Same as E. 7, with six Hollow-ground
Blades 18/6
E. 21 —Highly-finished, Silverplated, Self-
stropping Razor, with six Hollow-ground
Blades and Shell Horsehide Strop, in
Solid Nickelplated Case, Oak-lined, 35/-
t Obtainable at all Stores.
Wholesale Distributors:
E. H. COLdLIS PTY., LTD.,
413 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne;
And 103 York Street, Sydney.
df
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling liist Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
“THE WOMAN S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
/■ontains everything a woman needs to know.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
THINK OF
sdf
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
if you have
Woo! & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention*
Office): 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
m -
llllllli
sd
#
«
IS
SIN
ii
• •
a
disregard all!
Lubricants
supreme
specialized by science to protect all of the
different bearings in modern motor cars and
their power plants.
A complete ALEMITE SYSTEM spells
freedom from worry—old grease and dirt
is forced out—fresh new ALEMITE comes
in for thorough protection.
There is an Alemite Lubricant for every
wearing or bearing surface of pleasure car,
lorry or tractor. k-ausi 1-32
ALEMITE
ALEMITE CORPORATION * * Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH. Resident Manager
654 George Street, Sydney, N. S.W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD. Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W. A.),Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
a can about 18in. to 25in. deep and placed
in cold water, the temperature of_this water
is usually from 40 deg. Fahr. to 45deg. Fahr.
In the water-dilution method, the milk is
diluted with equal parts of water at about
lOOdeg. Fahr. (2) At about body tempera-
ture, approximately lOOdeg. Fahr. (3) The
temperature of the cream for butter-making
on the farm should be from 50deg. Fahr.
to 56deg. Falir., or as near this range of
temperature as possible, according to the
period of the year. In commercial butter-
making these temperatures are somewhat
lower. (4) In the shallow-pan method, skim
milk may test 0.5 p.c. to 0.6 p.c. fat; in
the deep-setting method, 0.2 p.c. to- 0.3
p.c.; in the water-dilution method, 0.3 p.c.
to 0.4 p.c., while when the separator is
used as low as 0.05 p.c. of fat would remain
in the skim milk.
Method of making a difficult cow easier
to milk? —2610.
A teat dilator, obtainable from most veter-
inary stores, is sometimes employed with
satisfactory results. Daily use of the in-
strument is advised until the condition im-
proves. The dilator must be thoroughly
sterilised by immersing in boiling water each
time before using.
(1) Would the growing of olives be prac-
ticable in connection with dairying [and
sheep-farming in N.S.W. ? (2) How are
olives propagated? (3) Any literature on
olive-growing in N.B.W.? —2751.
(1) The olive is suitable for N.S.W. in-
land districts. In the drier parts of these
regions some irrigation would be necessary.
There is nothing to prevent olive-culture
being carried on in conjunction with other
farming pursuits, provided they are in suit-
able localities. (2) They may be raised
from seeds, cuttings, truncheons, _ tips of
branches, sprouts and by root-grafting. (3)
“Olive Culture,” by W. J. Allen, obtainable
from N.S.W. Agriculture Dept., Sydney.
(1) My black land is covered with sorrel.
How can I destroy it? (2) JJ_ nw t° deal
with gum on apricot trees? —2576.
(1) Summer cultivation should be re-
sorted to, and regular applications of lime
in some form given. (2) The gum should
be cut out, also other diseased parts, and
burnt. Cover all wounds with a lime-
sulphur spray. The soil drainage should
be attended to, and the trees given lime in
early autumn. Spray trees in autumn with
lime-sulpliur,
(1) 1 have some crowns of rhubarb
planted in autumn. It has been doing well
but is commencing to run to seed. What
should / do with it? (2) What is the
reason for lifting rhubarb in autumn, and,
how long should it be left out of the ground
before replanting? —2B34.
(1) Leave it until the plants have finished
seeding; then dig it up and leave it
until next planting season. (2) This is the
usual practice among big growers, who dig
out the roots during the autumn and put
them in a heap in the shade over the winter,
ready for replanting in the spring. It is
not absolutely necessary that the plants
should be lifted so long as liquid or farm-
yard manure is supplied.
Last year I planted potatoes at Orbost
{Vic.) which grew nicely and showed great
promise. Just after flowering they were
overtaken by a rusty sort of blight, gradu-
ally wilted and died when nearing maturity.
Cause and method of prevention? —27l2.
Your crop was affected with the early blight
(Alternaria solani). This disease was very
prevalent last year, owing to the exces-
sively wet conditions in the later part of
the growing season. Dipping seed in forma-
lin, lib. to 20 gallons of water, for
hours will tend to diminish the trouble,
but the most effective treatment is to spray
the crop, prior to the disease making its
appearance, with a solution of 21b. copper
sulphate, 211 b. washing soda and 10 gallons
water.
(1) What is the best method of prevent-
ing the poultry tick attacking fowls? (2)
Will ticks lodge in new wood? (3) Are dis-
infectants effective? (4) How to prevent
young chickens from getting ticks? (5) Is
the addition of sulphur to the food a preven-
tive? (6) Will bough shelter sheds form
harboring places for the ticks? —2572.
(1) Spraying, at intervals of 14 days. To
make spray, take 21b. soft soap, 1
gallon rain-water. Boil until the soap
dissolves, then remove from fire and
gradually add 1 gallon of kerosene.
Stir continuously to thoroughly emulsify,
then add 8 gallons of rain-water. Spray
freely, particularly into cracks and crevices
and in or under the perches. (2) Yes.
Ticks have been known to live in the over-
lap of a corrugated-iron tank through the
summer months in Central Queensland. (3)
No. (4) There is only one method—eradi-
cate the tick —as these parasites will travel
a considerable distance to their host. (5)
No. (6) Yes. They will live in trees or
any place whore poultry roost each night.
The laying average of my hens has dropped
'considerably. I give them kitchen scraps
with pollard, first thing each day, cut-up
cabbage and, other vegetable leaves and half
a bunch of lucerne at midday, and then
wheat {natural) about 5 p.m. They have
fresh water daily and plenty of grit and
sun. Anything wrong with the diet? —2774.
The fowls are probably not receiving a
properly-balanced ration. Try a morning
mash of two-thirds pollard and one-third
bran with 5 p.c. meat meal added (propor-
tion by weight). The birds should receive
as much as they can eat each morning, with
a full feed of grain each evening. Scraps
and green feed may be given as a supple-
mentary feed at midday. An examination
of the house might also be made for an infes-
tation of red mite.
I have been informed that duck and hen
eggs should not be placed together m water-
glass, as it is injurious to the quality of
the latter. Is this correct? —2737.
The keeping quality of the eggs would
not be affected by mixing duck eggs with
hen eggs. The only objection is that the
hen eggs might take a slight odor charac-
teristic of duck eggs.
(1) Name of a N.S.W. dealer in bee-
keepers' requisites? (2) Is there a maga-
sine on bee-keeping? (.“») Where can I get
copy of laws or regulations in connection
with bee-keeping and the marketing of
honey? —26Bo.
(1) Pender Bros., of Elgin-street, West
Maitland, are manufacturers of all bee-keep-
ing appliances. (2) “The Australasian Bee-
keeper, ” monthly, published by the same
firm. (3) The bee-keeping industry is gov-
erned by the Apiaries Act, 1916, and
Regulations, procurable from Government
Printer, Phillip-street, Sydney, Is. 2d. With
regard to the marketing of honey, communi-
cate with ,T. M. Wilcox, secretary, Commer-
cial Apiarists’ Association, 277 George-
street, Sydney.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Johnno” : The lantana is a surface feeder,
and during a protracted spell of dry weather
the plant wilts badly. That’s the time to
tackle it. A good fire kills all the exposed
parts, and the heat seems to penetrate into
the ground, drawing the sap from the fam-
ished roots. When the weather breaks a
rot of the main stem sets in, killing out
every rootlet. Of course, if soaking rains
follow immediately after the fire very few
plants will die out.
“Only Dave”: I am for the “soldier”
variety of stooking. Stand one sheaf up-
right on its butt and lean the others round
it at only a slight slant so that water will
run off easily. No more than thirty sheaves
should he put in one stook. giving wind and
sun a chance to do their work. Build them
much bigger and you’ll get mildew or dis-
coloration ; also overbuilt stooks sag and
may collapse.
“Mulgo”: When making whips or green-
hide ropes, don’t use salted hide. Take a
fresh skin, fold it up and bury it for three
days in sand, by which time the roots of
the hair will be decomposed. Then spread
it out on the floor of the shed, and pour a
couple of bottles of vinegar over it. Rub
over now and again with a broom until the
vinegar is absorbed, when the* hide may be
hung up in the shade for use. If the hair
is not all on the floor when the hide is
lifted, the remainder can be easily scraped off.
“Dimon” : Here’s a way to make your own
hoe. Cut the blade from an old saw—a
thick one ; take a bin. piece of iron piping,
bend it to a right-angle, saw a slit in one
end, flatten that end to fit over the blade,
then drill or punch two holes to rivet it on.
You can then insert a handle in the other
end of the piping, and the hoe is made.
“Bloss”: When erecting wire-netting
fences keep in the tool outfit a pair of tin-
snips. If necessary to cut through the net-
ting they do the job quicker and better than
wire-nippers or the old axe and log.
“W.G.8.”: For 45 years I have never
had a failure in curing fistulas with a severe
blister, beniodide of mercury and lard, or
clean fat. For a bad fistula it may take
several blisters; bathe with hot water the
day after to bring the blister out again. Tie
horse up securely and put a nosebag on as
well for two hours.
“Rastus” : If the calf or pet lamb scours
heat a rusty horseshoe red-hot and put it
in the milk. This old remedy is surprisingly
effective.
“Forbes”: A use for the square wrought -
iron connections that hold the hoops round
wool packs and bales. Put in vice, cut in
two witli hacksaw, heat in forge and
sharpen points, or cut and sharpen after
heating. Result, a useful wedge for axe
heads. Cut in four and similarly sharpened
it serves the same purpose for hammers,
tomahawks and hoes.
“Dai R.”: Before plucking wool from
dead sheep, wash the hands well in a pint
of hot water with a teaspoon of lysol added,
and let it dry on. And carry a rag soaked
in the solution and rub the hands over
every hour or so. If lysol is not available,
phenyl or sheep-dip will do.
“A.C.8.”: Two Leura (N.S.W.) poultry-
keepers have fowlliouses of stone quarried
on the block. The nest-boxes are cavities
in the walls, which are at least I2in. thick.
The houses are neat and warm—a factor
in such a climate.
“Tena” : A good shaft for a dray can be
made from a piece of 3in. x 2in. hardwood.
Taper off the end and round off the edges
with a rasp. Smooth with sandpaper and
screw a piece of flat iron where the shaft
goes under *he dray—the point where the
most strain occurs. A pair will cost only
3s. or so.
“Woorinen”: Cincturing of the Zante
currant immediately after flowering, as soon
as the caps begin to fall from the berries,
is a tedious job if done with an ordinary
knife. A tool for this purpose can be made
in a few minutes by bending a hacksaw
blade and fastening both ends to a wooden
handle.
“Gumblegubbin”: When yon are putting a
new pane in the window, make a bed of
putty to set the glass on. Otherwise the
setting will be uneven, and moisture will
run down on the inside and swell the wood,
with the result that the outside putty will
crack. _ The sash also decays quickly at
the joints if the puttying on the underside
of the glass is neglected.
“F.A.R.”: In my experience the most accu-
rate and energy-saving device for marking-out
a block for fallowing is the gig-wheel. Tie a
piece of rag or paper round one spoke and
count the same number of revolutions before
putting in each peg. The number of pegs
required (carried, of course, in the gig) will
depend on the length of the block. This
method ensures an even finish. I have used
the forked stick or “compass” for measur-
ing, but was often out in the calculations
unless it was a perfectly flat paddock. Step-
ping out is frequently inaccurate.
“Dunboy”: In the Westralian wheat-belt
Public roads provide good water catch-
ments. Most of the roads in our district
have drains or banks placed across them
to run the water into near-by dams. The
road board provided cement pipes for cul-
verts conditionally on the farmers laying
them at their own cost. One farmer has
three dams, supplied by judiciously placed
drains, on his 1350-acre proper tv, which
carries 25 horses, 35 cattle and 250 sheep
and has vegetable and flower gardens. He
laughs at neighbors who complain about the
water rates. “Put down more dams,” he
says; “then high rates won’t worry you.”


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Station overseer, nine years’ exp. N.S.W. and
Q’land, able to handle stock, machinery and improve-
ments, can keep books, wants position.—2BB4.
Manager mixed property, N.S.W., single, 26, exp.
machinery and tractors, seeks position in New
Guinea.—2944.
Handyman or useful (50), Sydney, wants position
anywhere.—2973.
Girl (20), nine intermediate and four leaving
certificate subjects, wants position as nursery gov-
erness on station or farm in Vic. or N.S.W.* Refs.
—2980.
Words and music of “O Canada.”—2924.
Words and author of verses ending “Only an old
man, worn and grey, Bending his head to a bunch
of roses.”—2B7o.
Whereabouts of Minnie Calder, formerly of
Raleigh-street, Windsor, Vic.—27l4.
Information Sought.
Second-class rail and steamer fare from
Melbourne to the Cracow (Q.) qoldfield? —•
2851.
fare from Melbourne to Brisbane,
£5 155.; rail, £5 ; rail fare, Brisbane to Eids-
vold, £1 125.; car fare, Eidsvold to Cracow.
15s.
When is the best time to lift bulbs of
freesias, daffodils and lachenalias, and the
next thing to do with them? —2979.
As soon as the foliage has died down dig
np the bulbs, using a fork. Remove the earth
from them, and store them in an airy, dry
place.
(1) Particulars of the Wright “Whirl-
wind” engine? (2) Humber of pistons?
(3) Does the whole engine rotate? (4)
Details of crankshaft?— 2932.
(1) This aircraft motor is of the 9-cyl.,
air-cooled static radial type, operating on
the four-stroke cycle. The bore is 44in.
and the stroke 54in., giving a total displace-
ment of 788 cubic inches. The rated power
is 200 h.p. at 1800 r.p.m. (2) Nine. (3)
No, the crankshaft rotates. (4) Single-
throw counterbalanced type, machined from
nickel steel forging. It is hollow through-
out its length and is used to distribute oil
to all parts of the engine. Counterweights
are bolted to extensions on the crank cheeks.
For a detailed description, see Page’s
“Modern Aviation Engines,” Vol. 2.
(1) Can I import an aeroplane made in
U.S.A. and packed in knocked-down form
with instructions for assembling? (2) Is it
possible to fly an unlicensed ’plane from a
private ground in Australia? —2725.
(1) No. The importation of aircraft
without a certificate of airworthiness issued
or validated by a State signatory to the
International Convention for Aerial Navi-
gation is prohibited, and the U.S.A. is not
a signatory. (2) Unless the aircraft is
classified by the Defence Department as
experimental, no flying of the machine would
be permitted in any circumstances.
We use river water which first passes
through a sand filter for our swimming
baths. On some occasions there is a slimy
coating on the water after only a few hours.
(1) Is there any way of clarifying the
water to stop slime from forming? (2) Can
copper sulphate be safely used,, and if so in
what quantities? (3) Can a filter pump be
procured, which would fill the baths (capa-
city 70,000 gallons ) in about 18 hours? —
2672.
(1) Generally speaking, the use of a
chemical, usually commercial sulphate of
alumina, is employed to make the suspended
matter in the water more readily filterable.
The quantity and method of administration
depend on the character of the water. (2)
Copper sulphate is used only to destroy
growths of algse, and, though it could be
employed for swimming baths, its applica-
tion is rarely called for. (3) Get in touch
with H. J. Renwick, 350 George-street,
Sydney.
I want to obtain a nominated passage to
N.S.W. for my brother, who is in England.
Is the Federal Government accepting nomi-
nations ? —2615.
No. Assisted passages are available only
for wives and children (under 14 years of
age) of men in regular employment who
arrived in Australia prior to January, 1930.
What are the conditions of the short-
story competition being conducted by the
Q’land Authors and Artists' Assoc.?— 2923.
The story must have an Australian set-
ting and must not exceed 5000 words. There
is an entrance fee of 2s. 6d. to non-members.
Entries,, which must be original and un-
published, should be addressed: Short Story
Competition, c/o Mrs. Thelma Champion,
Dunmore-terrace, Auchenflowor, Brisbane.
Sign with a pen-name and enclose pen-name
and real name in a sealed envelope. Closing
date, January 31 next.
How to prevent temper brittleness in
nickel chrome and air-hardenina steels? —
2919.
In general, these steels develop brittleness
on tempering at between 200 and 450 dog. C.
It is a safe rule not to temper lower than
500 deg. C. or 600 deg. C.. otherwise the
steel is, likely to fracture in service.
(1) Can I patent a mechanical device
without producing a machine or a plan of it?
(2) What is the cost of patenting for Aus-
tralasia, and the period covered by patent
rights? —2B2s.
(1) You .can provisionally protect the
essential principles or features of your
invention before producing a complete plan
or model. Consult a patent attorney. Usual
cost, including .Government . fee and attor-
ney's charge, £5 ss. (2) Commonwealth
of Australia, complete patent, cost, includ-
ing attorney’s charge and Government fees,
about £24; M.L., about £2O. Term 16
years in each case.
Is there any truth in the theory that
where a peppercorn tree groics there are
ivhite ants? —2653.
No, but white ants are likely to make
their appearance in any dead soft wood
that is connected with the ground.
What is the cause of the buzz of mos-
quitoes, flies and bees? —2788.
Vibration of the wings; in general the
smaller the insect the more rapid the vibra-
tion and the shriller the note.
Method of mixing and ingredients needed
in making (1) Manhattan and (2) Mar-
tini cocktails? —2821.
(1) One wineglass of whisky, 15 drops
rock candy syrup, 10 drops Angostura
bitters, 20 drops vermouth. Half-fill a
tumbler with small pieces of ice, pour in
the whisky, add syrup, bitters and vermouth,
and 1 teaspoon or more of sugar. Cover
and shake well. (2) One wineglass un-
sweetened gin, 10 drops rock candy syrup,
10 drops orange bitters, 20 drops vermouth,
a pinch of gum arabic dissolved in brandy,
lemon peel and crushed ice. Half-fill a
tumbler with' crushed ice, add gin, syrup,
bitters, vermouth, gum and shredded lemon
peel; cover, and shake well.
(1) What salary was paid to members
of the N. S. Wales Assembly before the
last reduction? (2) What did they receive
before the basic-wage cut came into force?
(3) What is their pay n0w? —2697.
(1) Original salary, £875 p.a., which was
reduced to £743 15s. from April 1, 1930, and
further reduced to £706 ss. p.a. from August
7, 1931. (2) £706 ss. p.a. (3) £706 ss.
p.a. It is expected that this amount will be
reduced by £32 11s. 9d. as from August 26
last, but the Parliamentary Salaries and
Allowances Act has not yet been amended
to permit of this being, done.
What is sciatica, how is it caused, what
are the symptoms and what remedies are
used?— 2942.
Sciatica is neuralgia of the sciatic nerve,
the nerve which serves the skin of the leg
and the muscles of the thigh, leg and foot.
The disease is generally caused by exposure
to cold or wet. The pain is more constant
than in other forms of neuralgia, but may
vary in intensity. It may be felt right
along the course of the nerve, or be localised
at the back of the thigh, the knee, ankle,
etc. Hot fomentations, blistering, etc., are
used to ease the pain, and stretching of
the nerve is sometimes employed with suc-
cess. The Felt treatment, consisting of
injecting atropin at regular intervals, is
also often used, and is effective.
(1) What chance has a lad, 17 years
old, with a Junior Public Examination
pass . of securing a position in the engineer-
ing branch of the Q’land telephone service?
(2) Whore to apply? (3) How are vacant
positions filled? —2681.
Examinations for junior mechanics (in
training) are held as the exigencies of the
department require. So far as Queensland
is concerned there is little likelihood of an
exam, being held for some considerable
time. When one is decided upon particu-
lars will' be advertised in the “Common-
wealth Government Gazette,” and a poster
for public information will be exhibited at
the more important post offices throughout
the State.
(1) I wish to teach myself shorthand by
textbooks; what do you consider the bes't
system? (2) What are the advantages
over other systems? (3) Price of text-
books and where obtainable? (4) Time
required to become proficient in the various
systems ?— 2837.
(1) Pitman’s. (2) Makes the most legible
note. (3) “Pitman’s Shorthand Teacher,”
Is. 6d.; “Instructor,” ss. 6d. Obtainable all
leading booksellers. (4) Usually from six
to twelve months of study.
How can I charge a 4 -volt accumulator off
a 6 -volt generator? —2B72.
Connect the positive generator terminal
to the positive accumulator terminal and the
negative generator terminal to the negative
terminal of an 0 to 10 amp. D.C. ammeter,
the other terminal of which is joined to the
negative accumulator terminal. The speed
of the generator is regulated to deliver the
correct charging current as indicated by
the ammeter. This rate should be about
one-tenth of the actual amp.-liour capacity
of the battery. The charging rate may also
be varied by connecting a variable 4-ohm
rheostat in series with the charging circuit.
This rheostat must be able to carry the
full charging current without overheating.
What are the characteristics of (1) dakua
and (2) damanu, Fijian timbers? —2B3s.
(1) This timber is practically identical
with’ the M.L. kauri in appearance and
characteristics. The tree flourishes on hill-
sides and gullies and is fairly well distribu-
ted throughout Viti Levu and Vanua Levu.
The largest logs which have so far reached
the mill have been about 6 feet in diameter;
but trees up to 8 feet and even 10 feet are
reputed to exist in the forests. Dakua is
commonly used for boat-building, cabinet
work, and house-building. (2) Known as
“Island mahogany,” this is one of the most
valuable and most plentiful timbers in Fiji.
It is very tough and extremely durable,
whether exposed to weather or under cover.
It is well adapted for punt- and ship-build-
ing. In the past it has been commonly used
for house-building, but is becoming too valu-
able for that purpose, being more suited for
furniture and fine cabinet work. Damanu
is classed in America as being equal to the
best Hondliras mahogany. Trees grow to
about 4ft. 6in. in diameter.
(1) Population and (2) principal exports
of Kenya Colony, B. E. Africa. (3) Prin-
cipal towns and populations? (4) From
what official could I obtain information re-
garding local conditions, prospects, etc.? —
2787.
(1) Population is estimated at 3,025,054,
of whom 16,842 are Europeans. (2) Coffee,
raw cotton, maize, sisal fibre and sisal tow,
hides and skins, carbonate of soda, oil seeds,
wheat, ivory, wattle bark and extract, tin
ore and butter. (3) Nairobi (the capital)
has a population of 47,512, of whom 5195
are Europeans. Mombasa (the principal
port) has a population of 43,252, of whom
1132 are Europeans. (4) From the Colo-
nial Secretary, Nairobi; or H.M. Eastern
African Dependencies Trade Office, Cock-
spur-street, London, S.W.I.
How to remove ink stains from a polished
table? —2695.
Prepare a supply of clean linen rags,
clean blotting paper, and a large camel-hair
brush. Make up a solution of oxalic acid,
very weak, say one teaspoon to a cup of
water. Moisten the stains with pure clean
water; allow to stand a few minutes; then
mop up with blotting paper or rag. When
no more ink can be removed with the water
apply the acid solution with the brush, and
keep painting it on and mopping it up with
the blotters and rags, till the stains are re-
moved. If very obstinate, increase the
strength of the acid. The ink itself and the
process will probably have damaged the sur-
face of the table: tint it with a little brown
stain diluted in methylated spirit to the
right shade, and polish' up with beeswax and
turpentine. If the table is French-polished,
finish with shellac and methylated spirit
instead of beeswax and turpentine.
(1) Who controls the N. S. Wales elec-
toral system? (2) What are his duties?
(3) For hoio long is he appointed? (4)
Can any political party upon accession to
power remove him from office? —2849.
(1) Electoral Commissioner Edwards. (2)
He is charged with the administration of the
Act and the legal provisions relating to the
registration or enrolment of electors, the
preparation of rolls and the conduct of
elections of the Legislative Assembly. (3)
Seven years, with eligibility for re-appoint-
ment. (4) He may be removed from office
by resolution of both Houses of Parliament
or through performing some disqualifying
action laid down in the law.
How are steel tools hardened and
tempered ? —2946.
To harden it, the tool is heated to a
cherry red (1365 deg. Fah. to 1400 deg. Fah.)
and immediately quenched in water or in
a suitable bath so that the temperature is
lowered to about 60deg. Fah. Some tools,
depending on their composition, will harden
below 1365 deg., but the upper limit must
not be exceeded. The tool is then tempered
by heating to a temperature between 390 deg.
Fah. and 600 deg. Fah. and cooling slowly.
The correct tempering temperature is ascer-
tained by filing portion of the tool before
heating and carefully watching the colors
that appear on the cleaned surface, due to
the formation of oxides. These colors
range from yellow, through straw, brown,
purple, to blue.
What birds are to be found in Western
Samoa ? —2407.
Of the 34 kinds observed, 16 are found
nowhere else in the world. Most interesting
of the unique species is the manu-mea, or
tooth-billed pigeon, considered by some orni-
thologists to be a connecting link with the
bird-life of geological antiquity. Its closest
relative is probably the large ground-pigeon
of Mauritius, which is now almost extinct.
Legislation has now been introduced to pro-
tect the Samoan pigeon.
Is it possible to prepare at home academy
boards suitable for preliminary sketching
and landscape notes? —3ooo.
Yes. Take pieces of any heavy, smooth
cardboard, and give them a coat of thin shel-
lac. When dry follow this with a flat coat of
cream color, and quickly stipple it with a
bat of cotton w’added in cheesecloth to give
it tooth. For a coarser tooth use a covering
to the cotton pad made of coarse linen or
hessian.
What is the purpose of glazing an oil
painting? (2) How is it done?- —2985.
(1) To strengthen shadows and give addi-
tional warmth or coldness to their hue; to
subdue lights which seem obtrusive; to give
additional color or tone to some which appear
deficient in force or richness, and to pro-
duce particular effects such as dust, mist,
smoke, etc. (2) A thin transparent film
of color is laid upon another color by dilut-
ing the chosen transparent color with
megilp, gold size or mastic varnish. The
under color must be dry enough to admit
the laying of the glaze without “rubbing
up.”
(1) Is it possible fer an aeroplane to turn
upside down without the pilot being aware
of the condition? (2) What is an altimeter
on an aeroplane? —2s4o.
(1) In very rough weather, when in
clouds or heavy rain, it is possible that a
pilot may temporarily be upside downi with-
out knowing it, as the result of a series of
severe bumps. He would feel that he was
not in normal flying position, however. (2)
An instrument that indicates the height of
the aircraft above sea level.
How to summer-prune roses? —2990.
Remove all spent blooms, and cut back
wood which has hardened (leave the red
shoots alone) to three or four “eyes” from
the main stem. Also cut out shoots grow-
ing towards the centre of the roses. A
dressing of rotted stable manure to which
a little bonedust has been added will help
the plants to make wood for the autumn
and late summer flowering.
Information Supplied.
1549. Better results in preventing a driv-
ing belt from slipping on a 4in. pulley would
be obtained if attention were paid to the
following particulars. Ret correct tension,
figuring at 351 b. per inch of width for
single-ply leather belting 3-16 in. thick. For
pulleys 3in. or under in diameter, use a
belt 5-32 in. thick; over Sin. and under sin.
use 5-32 in. to Jin. belting, according to
working strain. —“Beltmaker.”
Brief Answers.
Y.F.T.: You do not state wliat kiud of
company... .F.C.A.: All female prisoners at Long
Bay. Sydney, are guarded by female warders....
T.D.: Prof. A. C. Haddon’s “Head Hunters, Black,
White and Brown” (1901), if in good condition,
should bring 305... .D. 8.: Apply direct to Com’wealth
Bank... . G.T.S.: 6lb. flour, 230 z. cream of tartar, loz.
bicarbonate of soda (baking soda), foz. finely
powdered salt. Mix thoroughly together and keep
closely covered and dry H. 8.: We know of no
likely buyers. Try an ad. in the “Woman’s Mirror.”
. ...L.R.: The name evidently pertains to the Isle
of Man. The armorial bearings of Man are three
legs of armor conjointed at the thighs A.J.L.:
The silver twopence (1841) is worth 6d.; the silver
fourpence (1842), Is.; the silver fivepence, on
account of its condition, is valueless; and the
miniature penny (1902) is of no value... .J.G.: (1)
Depends upon your age and experience. Chances
are very limited at present. (2) Write Lecturer-in-
Charge, Tanning School, Bourke-street, Waterloo... .
A.L.: Probably you are not eligible owing to exces-
sive income, but if you lodge a claim with the
Family Endowment Department the matter will be
investigated... .G.D.S.: The Liverpool Grand National
Steeplechase in 1908 was won by Rubio, 10 years,
lOst. 51b., in lOmin. 3 3-ssec., from a field of 24....
S. J.T.: Write Under-Secretary, Dept, of Transport,
Canberra... .W.Iv.D.: Vance Palmer’s “The Passage”
(65.) and Kay Glasson Taylor’s “Wards of the
Outer March” (6s. 6d.) are obtainable in Sydney.
J. J. Hardie’s “Cattle Camp” (65.) will be issued
shortly... .G.A.: Dissolve loz. pulverised gum shellac
in 9Joz. strong ammonia, and keep tightly corked
H.W.: Dumbleton’s “The Construction of Wells and
Boreholes for Water Supply” (9s. 6d.) contains a
chapter on percussion bores.... A.N.H.: Nothing
known about it.. . .G.H.8.: Write Berger and Sons,
Rhodes, Syd G.E.AV.: Particulars obtainable from
Chief Librarian, Public Library of N.S.W., Bent and
Macquarie streets, Sydney. . . .A.A.: A special steel
process, patented, is used by the makers to secure the
sound. You may be able to secure a somewhat
similar effect by experimenting... .G.V.K.: Write
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Asbestos House, York
and Barrack streets, Sydney. ...J.H.R.: A male swan
is called a cob and a female swan a pen. .. .
J.E.P.: Drench the places well with kerosene and
allow the oil to penetrate for some hours; then
gradually begin to remove the deposits with a
chisel-shaped piece of wood or blunt scraper. . . .
C.J.W.: You should have no difficulty in procuring a
passport, application for which should be made to
the Collector of Customs, Brisbane. British subjects
returning to England are not required to be in
possession of landing money... .C.0.E.E.: Aerated
waters would be judged by carbonation, flavoring
and appearance; beer by condition, flavor and
appearance; cordials by weight, flavor and appear-
ance. .. .C.W.G.: Any acid-resisting black paint,
costing about 15s. per gallon, would be suitable for
the purpose. .. .L.G’.E.B. : Write N. S. Wales Agri-
culture Dept, for free leaflet on cutworms... .F.N.C.:
(1) From the N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Sydney. (2)
It takes two coils of 21ft. or one coil of 36ft. to
restring a racket. (3) From Mick Simmons, Ltd.,
Haymarket, Sydney... .R. 8.: “History of the
White Australia Policy,’’ by Myra Willard (10s. 6d.),
obtainable from the Melb. Uni. Press, Carlton,
N. 3, Vie A.S.: Cecil Gallagher and Co., Charle-
ville (Q.) ... .Cocky: Principal item in cost of
transfer is stamp duty. If the consideration is
equal to the value of the property, the duty is one
per cent.; if it is less than the value, one per cent,
is charged on the actual sum passing and two per
cent, on the difference between it and the value.
Legal costs are fixed by schedule. .. .R.C.H. and
other inquirers concerning N.S.W. Moratorium Act:
This legislation is being repealed and replaced by
new provisions. Cannot advise in meantime....
J.D.T.: Your stomach-aches may be due to any one
of a dozen causes, each of which requires different
treatment. Thick socks are sometimes helpful, and
firm (but not heavy) shoes. If they continue, see
a doctor... .P.H.W.: There is no very helpful home
remedy save rest for varicose veins. Get them seen
to W.T.W.: Q’land Government is not now manu-
facturing the baits. Communicate with D. E. Donkin,
Meteor Downs Station, Springsure, Q’land, from
whose formula the baits were made up....R.L.:
There are no non-resident courses of study for the
degrees in medicine and dentistry at Melb. Uni.
Students must attend lectures and practical work.
. ...S.L.G.: Write Commissioner of Police, Police
Dept., Phillip and Hunter streets, Sydney... .W.T.:
Better not risk your money... .E.S.: Not to our
knowledge. Write Mrs. Farquharson, I'o Brady-
street, Croydon, Sydney... .K.E.C.: In what connec-
tion was the word used ?.... H.W.T.: Write N.S.W.
Country Press Assoc., Barrack-street, Sydney....
W.D.: Rouge is prepared by rubbing up a base such
as French chalk with oil and coloring matter. The
colors used in the better qualities are carmine and
carthamine... .M.M.P.: The Tanning School, Sydney,
recommends a solution of salt (concentrated brine)
for the purpose... .L.H.P.: The Sydney charge for
gas through slot meters is 0.453 d. per gas unit,
whilst that for ordinary meters is 0.391 d. per gas
unit.... T.C.: Ore-crushing plant can be obtained
through Guthridge, Ltd., 10 and 12 Parramatta-road,
Camperdown; McPhersons Prop., Ltd., 51 Bathurst-;
street, City; or Todwilliams, 646 King-street, New-
town —all Sydney. . ..A.A.: Write E. Esdaile and
Sons, 42 Hunter-street, Sydney... .M.S.: Interest
Reduction Act (1931) cut rate payable
by nine-fortieths. In the case of mortgages
it was provided that this should not have the effect
of reducing the rate below five per cent. If the
mortgagor was in possession at that date the rate
should have been reduced accordingly... .H.S.: It
would seem that agents gave the use of railway sheds
for storage of the wheat, pending sale, with-
out payment, provided farmers took all risk of
loss of or damage to the wheat whilst so
stored. If such is the agreement, no question
of the ownership of the wheat can arise... .N.D.C.:
Get in touch with the Director of the Botanic
Gardens, Adelaide. .. .H.C.: The English sovereign
was first issued in the reign of Henry VII
F.F.: Obtain copy of the N.S.W. Health Dept.’s
pamphlet on the prevention of fly-infestation and
destruction of flies. If you have ground of complaint
against the adjacent slaughterhouse, communicate
with local Shire Council A.D.: (1) The original
edition “Shokoku Meikio Kiran” (Views of the
Bridges of Various Provinces) was a set of 11
sheets published between 1827 and 1830. (2) No. 7,
the Drum Bridge at Temple of Tenjin, Kameido,
a semicircular wooden structure beside a trellis of
pine trees; and No. 9, the Teinma Bridge at Osaka,
province of Settsu, an evening scene on the occasion
of the Festival of Lanterns. (3) The two quoted,
about £l2 10s., in good condition ; the others some-
thing less than £lO each.. .M.D.: Particulars obtain-
able from Prime Minister’s Dept., Canberra J.S.:
Prospects are not bright. There are already about
90 public typists in the city and several in the
suburbs, and 15 months’ office experience is hardly
enough to ensure any measure of success against
such competition (Many others mailed.)


NESTLES
Nestle s
* n?' W tlOHt ll®
♦ ♦ ♦
and sleep soundly!
A glass of Nestle’s Malted Milk, hot,
taken before retiring will ensure restful,
refreshing sleep. And you enjoy all the
nutritive benefits of energy building
malt and rich full-cream milk, delight-
fully blended.
MALTED MILK
Australian j
Support
Australian Industries
Easy roMed—-no Setter sold
Super Quality
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Though it still costs about £4 a week to
keep a horse in training in Sydney, there
is no dearth of owners or lessees. The
A.J.C. had to run the Maiden Handicap at
Warwick Farm in divisions, there being 44
acceptors; and for the Novice Handicap at
Ascot on the same day 35 neddies, mostly
worthless, were nominated. Lindean, the
top weight in the first division at the Farm,
was the only starter that had shown any
form; and his backers were delighted at
the early price (8 to 1, presently 9 to 2),
especially when they saw the locally-trained
animal load the way home from Baltimore
and Patiala. But it took him lmin. 14-isec.
to run the six furlongs; and Frieze (5 to 1)
cut a second off that time in the other-
division. Frieze, a brown gelding by Orna-
mentation —Kuningada, was having his first
race as a three-year-old. He i.s very smart.
The Macquarie Grove Handicap was voted
a match between Port Said, Autumn Leaf
and Grand Total, and the best some book-
makers would lay was 3 to 1 (Grand Total),
bar two. But the race proved easy for
Port Said, who set up an invincible lead as
soon as O’Sullivan moved on him. Roger-
son (10 to 1), one of the other four, came
fast to cut Autumn Leaf out of second
place. He will return to the winning list
presently.
There were shouts of exultation from the
bookmakers massed in front of the main
grandstand when Alienor ran past Ranier
in the last stage of the Varroville Handicap,
and they were echoed, when the number was
hoisted first, by the fraternity in the Leger.
For Alienor was friendless in the ring at
20 to 1 (offered), and on the tote her divi-
Bert! These people w?e mot
Sports 7
GIERT: WhV A.RE THEY BA.RRA.CK.U4G,
HIM ?"
Bert: Because he <&ot a, duck. 1 *
QERT IS THATT WHftT THEY CM.U
GIVING, HIM .THE BIR.D > "
dend was £2l 14s. for 10s., with 40 p.c. to
be deducted to pay backers of Ranier (3 to
1) 9s. 6d., and of Sweet Maggie (20 to 1)
£2 Bs. Alienor is in a stable which turns
out its share of winners, and did pretty
well last season, but was thought to be
unready. There was no fluke about her
success, Ranier being well beaten; but
Sweet Maggie was going the fastest at the
finish, and would have made things more
exciting for Alienor had she got out earlier.
Alienor was ridden by an unknown boy,
Barry.
For a change, the ringmen called 4 to 1
the field on the Homebush Handicap, as
they could well afford to do. Waugoola was
favorite, but he looked decidedly finer than
at Rosehill, and when he tried to come away
—as he did there —he could not shake off
Circus Star (6 to 1). The little mare was
then tackled by Rosendo (5 to 1) and New
King (10 to 1) ; and after an exciting set-
to New King prevailed. He is not So con-
sistent as he was a while back, but keeps
his condition remarkably. Fair Money
delayed the start by his antics at the barrier,
and is likely to be banned from metropoli-
tan courses, as Nut Cup and Lord Ivenna-
quhair have been.
Samian King, who races in the same
colors as New 7 King and is by the same sire
(Flying King), was all the rage for the
Farm Stakes. He was third to Peter Pan
and Babili in the Warwick Novice Handi-
cap in August. He showed pace for seven
furlongs, but blew out in the straight, and
Lavington (3 to 1) secured the verdict after
a neck-and-neck race with Mediator and
Rowan. Lavington is owned and trained by
H. B. Lorigan, the Maoriland trainer, who
is staying on in Sydney.
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Kogarah Stakes : Alleviate ; next, Chrystal
Tin.
Flying Handicap: Sweet Maggie; next,
Fordlight.
Moorefield Handicap: Wallace Mimi;
next, Bawn-na-Glas.
Ilurstville Mile: Rogerson ; next, Tilt.
* * * *
Braeburn is the horse of the moment in
Queensland. Owned and trained by E. F.
Walker at Randwick, the colt —he is by
Silvius-Leading Lady—had two starts as a
two-year-old and three this season without
running into a place. For the Park Stakes
at Hawkesbury on Sept. 24 he was given
7st. 31b., the lowest weight being 6st. 101 b.;
Lancaster King, a third-rater, headed the
list with 9st. Braeburn did not start, nor
was he produced at the A.J.C. spring meet-
ing. Sydney followers of racing rubbed
their eyes when they read that Braeburn
had won the Queensland Derby by four
lengths in 2min. 31isec. — faster than
Peter Pan’s A.J.C. Derby time, though the
going was, of course, a bit dead that day.
On this form Walker’s colt was made an
odds-on favorite for the Queensland Cup,
and this he won just as easily in 3min.
23sec., cutting Jsec. off Peter Pan’s Mel-
bourne Cup time. Evidently the son of
Silvius has inherited the fine qualities of his
sire, who, raced with more judgment, would
not have been beaten by Trivalve in the
Melbourne Cup. Kitty Lee (20 to 1) and
Ortelle’s Son (12 to 1) followed Braeburn
home at intervals of five and two lengths.
It wasn’t much of a field—Paddi Eve was
about the best of the older horses, and she
had 9st. lib. —but there is no arguing
against the merits of a three-year-old who
can run two miles in 3min. 23sec. without
being pushed. Goddard rode the colt on
both occasions.
* * * *
The style in which Kuvera vanquished
Gaine Carrington in the C. B. Fisher Plate
at Flemington, following on his Carnival
Handicap success two days before, war-
ranted George Price’s colt being made favo-
rite for the Williamstown Cup. He figured
at 7 to 2; the lowest odds against any rival
were 10 to 1. A foreleg joint had festered
on the previous day, but the injury yielded
to hot foments. Ivuvera’s poor showing
arose in some measure from a slow begin-
ning, but a bump near the six-furlong post
settled him, and he came home in the ruck.
The hot pace set by Celotex suited Yar-
ramba. The Spearhead gelding, instead of
tailing off, was able to assume a handy posi-
tion at the back of the course. He ranged
alongside the pacemaker entering the
straight, and that was the end of the story.
Yarramba scored, full of running, by a
length and a half from the fast-finishing
Satmoth, with Perinthus a good third.
Robertson saddled up Oratory and First
Arrow (imp.), as well as Perinthus. He
regarded the race as very open and re-
marked, “I couldn’t even pick the best of
my lot.” Elliott, having his first mount in
Australia after returning from the U.S.A.,
rode First Arrow, who looked a possibility
three furlongs from home, but died on his
run. In the autumn of last year, after
defeating Greenline in a division of the Oak-
leigh Plate, First Arrow was strongly sup-
ported for the Doncaster. He failed in that
event, but was a close third in the Coogee
Handicap. He now appears to be quite
sound, and is shaping towards an early
success. Yarramba set 2min. 30fsec. for a
mile and a half, which is a quarter of a
second faster than Star d’Or and Second
Wind occupied in winning their Williams-
town Cups. The downfall of Kuvera makes
Gaine Carrington appear well sold at
3000gns. Both Gaine Carrington and Peter
Jackson (the latter on lease) have gone
into the Caulfield stable of C. T. Godby.
The new owner of Gaine Carrington is a
paddock bookmaker, Jack Phillips. For
some time past—almost, in fact, since Purser
and Heroic passed out of his hands —Cecil
Godby has experienced a lean time as
trainer, but he may mend his fortunes by
bringing out the best there is in Gaine
Carrington.
In the Cup Hurdle Waiter Scott had the
opposition beaten to a cinder when, instead
of clearing the last obstacle, he leaped side-
ways at the running rail, struck portion of
the wooden structure which surmounts the
rail near the hurdle, and fell heavily on to
the steeplechase course. L. J. Hynes had
a miraculous escape, but the horse was
rather seriously hurt. In the first division
of the Ozone Highweight Handicap, Golden
Lullaby scored nicely by a length from Hunt
the Slipper, but her jockey, Daniels, weighed
in 71b. light, and Golden Lullaby had to be
disqualified. The stewards suspended Daniels
for a month. Many bookmakers paid out
before discovering that there was anything
amiss, and dismal were their howls. On
the other hand, numerous backer.s of Hunt
the Slipper either tore up or discarded their
tickets. At the close of the afternoon men
and women could be seen gathering up and
examining tickets on the wind-swept lawn.
Hunt the Slipper was the only first favorite
to succeed. Prince of Samos, who came
from Westralia two years ago, scraped home
in the steeplechase from the favorite, Don-
gola. He now belongs to Ronald Cameron,
the trainer, and is a useful recruit to the
cross-country game.
* $ * *
For Caulfield, on Saturday:—
Armadale Handicap: Cimbrian; next,
Celotex.
Ormond Stakes: Spontoon ; next, High-
land.
Rosstown Plate; Green Wave; next,
Parkwood. .
* * * *
“Ike iyicßagg”: There is no doubt Mel-
bourne has taken the tote to its bosom. For
the four days of the Cup meeting £183,554
passed through the machine, as against
£126,738 in 1931. What the turnover would
have been had a doubles tote been installed
in addition to. the win and place machines
it is difficult to compute. Canada is the
latest country to adopt the doubles tote.
At a meeting in Montreal, Floria Zel and
Rock Point were coupled for the second
and third races. Only one man struck it;
lie collected £7OO for Bs. If the A.J.C. and
V.R.C. don’t follow the example of West-
ralia and South Aus. and have a doubles
tote in action for next season, they will
lose a lot of their reputation for clear-
sightedness and business acumen, and, inci-
dentally, a lot of extra revenue.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Misfortune followed Royce McGrath in
his match with Alby Roberts at Leichhardt.
After being fouled repeatedly, he was dis-
qualified for going down without being hit
in the twelfth round. Roberts fought reck-
lessly, and was cautioned often for hitting
in the break, back-handing, holding and hit-
ting and palming. The white man’s much
cleaner work had placed a margin of points
to his credit when a chin-cracking one-two
upset him. McGrath lifted his knee a few
inches off the canvas at “eight,” but it went
down again, and the referee —strictly observ-
ing the rules at last —declared Roberts the
winner.
Ins and Outs
Victoria’s meeting with England in Mel-
bourne indicated early that the visitors’
bowling is better than at first appeared.
With Ponsford absent, the local stocks
dropped heavily when Woodfull went for 5,
caught by Hammond off Allen. Allen then
got Rigg single, but O’Brien (45) and
Darling (45) stopped the pavilion trot.
Oakley also played a heartening shot for
S 3, but the rest also ran, the total being 231,
Allan and Voce each got 4 wickets cheaply.
England settled down to steady scoring when
its turn came. Wyatt played a steady open-
ing shot for 74, and Hammond (203) made
just on half the score —closed at 408 with
a wicket to fall. Vic. was up against it on
Monday.
* * * *
Queensland again struck calamity in Bris-
bane, this time in its Sheffield Shield match
with N.S.W. Abo. Gilbert was dropped
from the side and Govan could not play.
The N.S.W. batsmen took full advantage of
the weak attack, Kippax heading the scoring
with 179 in his very best manner. Hird also
came to light with a clean and vigorous
go for 106. Others to catch the runs were
McCabe (91), Wendell Bill (80) and Old-
field (46), the innings ending for 602. The
ex-Vic. fast bowler Gamble took 4 for 91.
Queensland was dismissed for 180 in its
first knock, Gough (52), Andrews (33) and
Mossop (32) being the only batsman to
offer opposition to McCabe (4-22) and
O’Reilly (3-30). The second innings was
delayed by rain.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The coming series of Test
matches will be the 34th. England has won
17, Australia 14, and two have been drawn.
England has won 10 rubbers at home, while
Australia has scored eight wins on its
native heath. The earlier rubbers were one-
match affairs, each country scoring in two
of the four played. Then came the three-
match rubber, which, in its turn, was sup-
planted in 1897-98 by the five games played
to-day.
* ❖ ❖ ❖
“The Trundler” : With only a fortnight or
so to go, the position of Australia’s fast
bowler in the first Test is still open. Tim Wall
will not have appeared in any first-class game
before the team is chosen. He is in the
same position as Archie Jackson, having
just recovered from illness, and his repu-
tation will need to stand to him if he is to
be included. Alexander has pushed into
the limelight. Against Queensland he took
2 for 33; against N.S.W., 8 for 118. Nash,
another candidate, made a successful entry
into Test cricket during the South Africans’
tour. This season he has figured only in
grade games. Who will be chosen V I think,
Alexander.
(Continued on page 30.)
Racquet and Bawl
Though the United States beat N.S.AV. in
their match at Rushcutter Bay by 7 rub-
bers to 4, the sting- of defeat was forgotten
in the performance of McGrath, who
showed convincingly that he is already in
the world’s champion class. He was faced
with a formidable task in meeting Ellsworth
Vines in his opening match, but showed him-
self undeterred by his opponent’s reputa-
tion. Playing fine tennis, he took the first
set 8-6, Vines warming up to take the next
two 6-3, 6-4. On the closing day McGrath
showed unexpected ascendancy over Allison,
who is rated second on the American rank-
ing list, winning 4-6, 7-5, 6-3. In the
doubles, with Willard as a partner, he was
not successful, the pair going down to Vines
and Gledhill and Allison and Van Ryn. Of
rhe others, Willard beat Van Ryn and Craw-
ford was too good for Allison, while Craw-
ford 'and Dunlop defeated Allison and Van
Ryn. Vines won from Drawfoyd 2-6, 6-3,
6-4, and the Americans also cleaned up the
only doubles game completed on Saturday.
A strain will keep McGrath out of the
N.S.W. championships.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: For some time past there
has been an agitation to have a net cord
shot—one which hits the top of the net and
just drops on the other side-—made a “let.”
This is already the rule in the case of
a service, but during the game the shot is
regarded as what golfers would call a legiti-
mate rub o’ the green. The International
Tennis Federation has circularised the
leading tennis countries asking opinions.
The change does not seem advisable. There
is too much tendency in tennis, as in other
games, to eliminate the spice of luck which
is an attractive feature of most of them.
* * * *
“Junker” : Republic or not, the old aris-
tocratic traditions still have a stranglehold
on Germany. Some surprise was occasioned
when Von Gramm was bracketed equal with
Prenn in the ranking list, though Prenn is
reckoned the better player. The explana-
tion furnished by the tennis authorities was
that Von Cramm, being “noble,” could not
be placed second to a mere bourgeois like
Prenn. Explanation accepted.
(Continued on page 30.)


THE AGE OLD
SYMBOL
rs
CELEBRATION
O F
I
I
'tel
§5?
%
a
*4
a
To the Feasting Hall
of Valhalla on the
white horses of the
Valkyries...
Up . • . up . • . up, on their fleet white steeds the
maiden cup-bearers of Valhalla bore off the
heroes who had fallen in the day’s battle, to the
feasting halls of after-life. There, Scandinavian
mythology relates, a company of warm-hearted
warriors waited to pledge and do them honour.
Toast followed toast. So, in eternal feasting and
good-fellowship the heroes passed their days.
The days of the Norsemen have
passed, but something of the signific-
ance of the white horse remains. No
less to-day is the white horse associ-
ated with celebration and good cheer.
For more than a century and a half,
since the sign of the White Horse first
swung outside the old Inn at Edin-
burgh, men have looked to it as a
symbol to guide them to companion-
ship and content.
White H*
l* p crmru
USE
SCOTCH WHISKY
L
Guaranteed Pure Scotch and
bottled only in Bond under
Government Supervision. To
the handy concave flasks and
the standard bottle is now
added the popular
miniature.


#
PENS
MADE IN ENGLAND
■Swan’ Pens Black and Coloured, from 20/*
•Swan' Minors from - - - -
'Blackbird’ Pens from - - -
•Swan’ Ink from - - 6d. per bottle.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House,
London, W.l. Factories: London & Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot i
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
|(A.I.)
IF
you desire to reach that section of
the N.Z. public that moulds the buy-
ing habits of the rest;
IF
you have a message for New Zealand-
ers who have more money to spend
on more commodities than the many;
IF
your goal is a market with the maxi-
mum capacity to respond to your
advertising efforts, then cover the
Wellington Province, the highest in
spending power, by using the most
effective medium,
the Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
’Phone: 8524 X.
Ins and Outs
“Norwood”: South Australia went down
to England by an innings and 128 runs, the
locals making only 216 in their second try.
The game added little information as to the
future prospects of the visitors. With
Grimmett still lame and Wall absent, the
South Aus. attack was not formidable. At
the same time Verity showed against a fair
batting side that he can bowl as well on a
hard wicket as a sticky one. In the match
he took 8 for 86, while Brown also had
some success —6 for 141. This pair have,
at time of writing, proved the most con-
vincing trundlers of the bunch, though
Allen impressed. Neither Larwood nor
Bowes set the Oval on fire.
* * * *
“The Corner”: Don Bradman’s double-
century against Victoria is liis sixteenth
score of over 200. He has now topped Jack
Hobbs’s record, though John has been at
the game much longer than the N.S.W. bats-
man. Patsy Hendren and C. B. Fry have
recorded more than the Australian, but unless
the English bowling turns out to be better
than it looked up to the end of the South
Aus. match, both are likely to be left in
the rear before long.
-4t * * *
‘Tenth Slip” : Though the first Test does
not start until December 2, and there are
matches between the States and against the
Englishmen in between, one is tempted to pick
a possible Test team on performances up to
the close of the N.S.W.-Victoria match in
Sydney. Here goes: Woodfull, Ponsford,
Bradman, Kippax, Richardson, McCabe,
O’Reilly, Grimmett, Alexander, Fleetwood-
Smith or Ilird, and Oldfield. That gives
a good balance of batsmen and bowlers,
while the fielding is excellent all round.
Perhaps old Ironmonger might be kept in
the background for a rainy day. Wall
has not appeared in first-class cricket to
date, and his selection will be blind stabbing.
* * * *
“Oi Diba Lasi”: Port Moresby boasts a
cricket club; Poreporena, composed entirely
of natives, The other day Papuan history
was made when the side set off for Samarai,
THE AMERICAN TENNIS TEAM.
Reading from left to right: Vines, Allison, Van Ryn, Gledhill.
there to engage the white players on the
island and the famous London Mission team
at Quato over the way. Perusal of the
players’ names leads one to regret that a
visit to Sydney is out of the question. It
would be .interesting to hear what the most
hardened Hillite could make of monnikers
like Koliu Ilogodo, Hila Tutuhi, Boe Gavera
aud Rea Mea. Rea Mea is the- Bradman
of the side, having knocked up 83 n.o. in a
trial match before the trip.
* * * *
“White Coat”: By agreement between
the Board of Control and the English man-
agers, a radical change lias been made in
the method of selecting umpires for the Tests.
Hitherto these have been selected by a sub-
committee of the board. Under the new
method, the captain of either side has the
right to veto an appointment if it is unsatis-
factory to him. The change seems unneces-
sary. For many years the old rule worked
without friction. The new one certainly
opens the door to argument and possible ill-
feeling.
* $ ❖
“ Jolimount” : The retirement through ill-
ness of L. E. Nagel from the Victorian side
against England gave rise to an unusual
occurrence; he was replaced by his twin
brother, V. G. Nagel. It is a rare thing to
find twins playing in representative cricket,
though it is not unknown in tennis. Batches
of ordinary brothers, on the other hand, are
commonplace. The Graces, Steels, Studds,
Fosters and other brotherhoods are famous
in English cricket. Australia has had the
Gregorys, McLeods, Bannermans, Trumbles,
Trotts and others.
»1»
“Moore Park” : Ponsford’s return to form
lias delighted everyone and the fickle public
is recalling that three or four years ago his
prestige was almost as high as Bradman’s is
to-day. In the Tests, the Bowral batsman
lias run away from the Victorian, but if
Ponsford had got into the Test teams when
he was 18 and playing as good cricket as
ever he has done, instead of having to wait
six years for his first Test, the distance
between the pair might not have been so
wide. Bradman has played in nine Tests
for an average of 103, and Ponsford in 13
for 40.38 per innings. In the Sheffields,
tiiere is little to choose. Bradman’s 40
innings—this to the end of last season-
have brought him an average of 91.50. Pons-
ford has played 56 innings and his ayerage
is 89.09.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: The protest of the American
tennis-players against the gruelling Pro-
gramme prepared for them in Australia (B-
-9/11/’32) has resulted in a revision of the
itinerary. The Westralian portion of the
tour has been cut out and only four Jests
will be played, the first at Brisbane, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide and Sydney staging the
others in that order. The matches with the
States at Brisbane and Adelaide have also
been cut out, each having to be content with a
Test. The tourists will thus be able to leave
for home on February 2, a week earlier
than originally intended, and will not play
in Maoriland.
* * * *
“Oh Yeah” : Though there is supposed to
be a limit on the importation of bananas,
what is called “banana oil” seems to have free
admission. Anyway, the Yanks have poured
gallons of it over Crawford and Ilopman.
Allison, among others, was lost in wonder-
ment as to how he and Van Ryn managed
to beat Crawford and Hopmau in the Davis
Cup doubles. Vines considered Crawford
one of the most difficult men in the world
to play. It is cheering to find our men are
so well esteemed, but one wonders how it
was that they were not more successful
abroad.
* -.J: *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Whatever the sins
of omission and commission of the N.S.W.
tennis authorities they have at last done
one good deed. No photographer, press or
otherwise, is to be allowed near the courts
at Rushcutter Bay during the tennis car-
nival. This is only following the example set
by Wimbledon and Forest Hills. The’ press
photographer has become a nuisance in
games which require detachment and concen-
tration.
Sit * * *
“Top Spin”: Commenting on 11. E.
Vines’s tremendous pace in his forehand
drive, one critic recently asserted that he
was a harder hitter than Tilden and was only
equalled as to pace by S. 11. Smith, who won
the All England singles in 1900 and, with
Riseley, the doubles in 1902. Smith was one
of twin brothers, and though the other was
a classy player he was never up to the
standard of S. H. As to the hitting, the
claims of J. C. Parke are worth attention.
A man who could hit Norman Brookes off
the court, as Parke did in the Davis Cup
games at Melbourne in 1912, was certainly
no patter. And then there was McLoughlin.
* ❖ ❖ ❖
Referring to the tour of Vines and his
companions, a Sydney journal has dis-
covered that the promoters of the champion-
ship and other tourneys are liable to a fine
of 40s. for each day the game is played.
Tennis was declared an illegal game by an
English Act of Parliament in 1541 (33
Henry VIII.), and the statute still stands.
But the discovery is a mare’s nest at best.
The tennis referred to was the ancient and
strenuous game played within elaborate
walled courts, the version so popular to-day
being a mere upstart of the 1870’s. Real
tennis is still played in Europe and America,
and we have two courts in Australia, at
Melbourne and Hobart, but it is not a poor
man’s game.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Shirley”: For dogged consistency. A.
Shaw, the Maoriland golf professional, should
take some beating. Last week he won the
M.L. open championship for the fourth
successive year, this being the sixth time he
has collected the title—he has also won the
professional championship on a couple of
occasions. Shaw’s aggregate was 289 for
four rounds. Veteran amateur A. D. S.
Duncan, so well known on this side of the
Tasman, was runner-up.
* * # *
“Hamilton” : The eighth annual scrap for
the Queensland Armistice Cup for ex-sol-
dier golfers drew a field of 160 to Yeerong-
pilly links. Weather conditions were bad,
but the winner. J. S. Wheeler, a Goodna
amateur, was able to go round the 18 holes
in 87, a handicap of IS giving him a n x et
card of 69. A. V. Porter and D. Dunworth,
who tied for second place with 70 apiece,
also had a start of 18 strokes. The best
scratch score was 72 by J. R. Quarton, on.*
of Queensland’s leading professionals.
*** ❖
“Brassey”: That Diggers’ Cup which is
to be played for annually at Orange (B
2/9/’32) is something out of the ordinary.
It. is a ‘tin hat” done in silver, and the
miniature to be kept by the winner is a
replica. This does not interfere with the
ceremony which usually attends on winning a
golf trophy—the filling of the cup for the
benefit of those present. The tin hat is
easily detached from its wooden stand and
makes a satisfactory and capacious wassail
bowl.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Rufus Stewart proved that his
long illness has not affected his play by tak-
ing the Spalding professional competition in
Adelaide from a strong field of professionals.
The competition was 72 holes stroke play
and Stewart’s card was 291. F. W.
McMahon, several times professional cham-
pion of the State, was two strokes behind.
A. 11. Toogood, who recently won the State
professional title, was in fourth place with
314.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Melbourne centenary
golf tourney in 1935 (B. 9/11/’32) promises
to grow into a bigger affair than was at
first anticipated. Metropolitan club, which
is handling the matter, talks of offering a
prize of £l6OO for professionals and induce-
ments to amateurs likely to attract a
string of first-class players from Britain
and America, and possibly South Africa.
So far all attempts to get a team of ama-
teurs from abroad have proved fruitless.
The time involved has been the stumbling-
block, for in most instances even first-class
amateurs are the genuine article and do
other things for a living than play golf.
* * * *
“H. Blazes”: I had to play off for our
associates’ B-grade championship, 12 holes
match play. My opponent and I were
square on the 10th and halved the 11th.
She holed out on the 12th while I had a
14in. putt to sink. She won the match,
but when we counted strokes I was one
up on her, 65-66. If she is the B-grade
champion this year, what am I?
Car and Cycle
“vVliizz”: Mention of S,. F. Edge (B.
2/11/’32) reminds me that he was the first
record-maker to tackle a 24-hour continuous
drive. He averaged 66 m.p.h. Since the
power of cars has increased it is now the
universal custom to man cars attempting the
record for this time with at least three
drivers, each taking his turn at the wheel.
Edge’s siolo record years ago was 1582
miles. Since the teams came in the mile-
age has been raised to 2724 miles, covered
by the French drivers Marchand, Morel
and Kirillof. That was done on the Mont-
lhery track and is hardly comparable to
Edge’s go, which was accomplished on a
far inferior circuit. One A. Jenkins,
driving a 12-cylinder American car, is
credited with having covered 2710 miles on
a dry lake bed in Utah. His car is said to
have been a stock model, and, if so,
his average of 113 m.p.h. is something to
wonder at. Australia’s best for the 24
hours is 1701 miles by Norman Smith on
Perkolili lake bed in Westralia. He had
E. A. Poole for a partner and drove a
Studebaker.
* # i'fi sH
“Sudden Death” : The British mortality
rate from motor-car accidents continues to
creep up. In spite of the assertion that the
abolition of a speed limit would make for
safety, the facts point the other way. How
desperate things are becoming for pedestrians
is seen in a recent illustration in a .London
weekly of a safety device for them. This
consists of a small red reflector like those
attached to the rear of push-bikes. It is
fastened to the back of a boot or shoe.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: The reappearance in his
native land of Bob Spears, who has earned
professional cycling honors by the dozen
overseas during his eight years’ absence
from Sydney, attracted a large following to
the opening of the track-cycling season at
Sydney Velodrome. Just off the boat, Spears
was well out of condition. One of the
world’s greatest sprinters, he could not win
a heat of the Champion Stakes over a mile,,
and had to retire from a fast run five-mile
go. Duncan Gray, the Olympic amateur, also
appeared in the amateur • class, but found
teaming combination too much for him in
the five-mile scratch event. This was Gray’s
first public showing since the Olympiad.
* * * *
“Roller Chain”: The opening of the
cycling season brings to mind a British news-
paper bloomer. Dick Arnst, sculling cham-
pion of the world from 1968-12, was a wheel-
man before he took to rowing. Among his
cycling successes was the Sydney Thousand.
At the time of the Arnst-Barry sculling race
on the Zambesi in 1911, one overseas critic
gravely remarked that the champion must
be possessed of great endurance since he had
won a cycling race of a thousand miles. The
“thousand” referred to the cash offering for
the race, not the distance.
Miscellaneous
“Booroodabin”: Queensland bowlers have
bailed up the Brisbane Council for permis-
sion to lay down a public bowling green on
the lines of the public golf links in Vic-
toria Park. The site proposed is in the
same park, and alongside the cyclopean
ruins which are the foundations of a stately
Government House which never came to
fruition. It is a rattling good idea. Public
greens are common in England, especially
in the North. Years ago many of them were
located behind inns and the purchase of a
pot of beer made one free of the green.
❖ # ❖ ❖
“Fitzcray”: The N.S.W. bowlers, who
won their tussle with the Victorians last
year rather unexpectedly, came down to
Melbourne full of beans to defend their
title, and went back again full of chagrin.
Ma was badly beaten in all four Tests, and,
by way of rubbing it in, Bendigo, whither
the tourists went in the hope of putting one
over the simple gold-diggers, also handed out
a stoushing. Visiting sides will never have
much of a chance against the home teams
until the foolish rule forbidding the payment
of travelling and housing expenses to tour-
ing sides is wiped out. As it is, many a
good player has to stand down for some
comfortably-off dud.
:1= * * :|t
“Hotham”: The Ilenley-on-Yarra pro-
moters are this year to give their patrons
an extra-special treat in the form of a
swank fireworks display by the same people
who engineered the fireworks at the opening
of Sydney’s Bridge—no reference here to
Lang or De Groot, of course. It will be
the biggest thing of its kind ever seen in
Melbourne, and will be fired off opposite
the reserve, so that paying patrons will
get the full benefit of the rockets and, no
doubt, the descending sticks. Entries include
H. J. Turner, N.S.W. and Australian cham-
pion, who will scull for the Yarra Challenge
Cup.
* * >
“Blue Chalk”: There are indications that
the new baulk-line billiard rule is ceasing
to trouble the experts. In their match in
London last week both McConachy and
Lindrum ran into four figures, Lindrum
doing it three times in two days. McCou-
acliy’s break —his second under the new rule
—was 1119, while young Walter’s were
1348, 1576—the highest yet under the baulk-
line rule —and 1145 unfinished. The rule
ceases with the old year, and whether it
will be finally adopted by the British bil-
liards authorities is uncertain. At- present
it looks as if the hope that it would stop
big breaks is as illusory as in the case of
its predecessors framed with the same intent.
* * *
“Windy” : At a billiard tournament in Wel-
lington (M.L.) a player about to make a shot
asked the referee if his opponent’s ball, on
the baulk line, was playable. H'e was told,
Avlien he had played the shot, that it was,
though the official declined to give a ruling
until the shot was played. The matter was
referred to the Billiards Control Council
in Britain, who decided that, as it was a
question of fact under rule 21, the third
man should have given his decision on
being appealed to and without requiring the
shot to be made first.
* * * *
“Nark”: It now appears that “Buster”
Crabbe will not come to Australia after all
(B. 9/11/’B2). Galitzen, otherwise Riley,
was willing, so the Australian authorities
invited the Hawaiian Kalili, and this has
been arranged. N.S.W. wanted Frenchman
Taris and no other; in consequence, Ma
has been told to make her own arrange-
ments. The Americans will now appear in
Queensland, Victoria and Tassy. The Aus-
tralian championships will be held at Perth
and Adelaide in January and February.
The Americans will be competitors there
also.


Patents.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patents
A No. 20650/24 in respect of an invention
entitled “An improved thermal relay on the
bi-metallic principle,” and 20651/24, in re-
spect of an invention entitled “An improved
adjustable rotating- resistance, more particu-
larly for polyphase induction motors with
centrifugal starters,” is prepared to negoti-
ate for the sale of its rights in either of the
above, or for the granting of a license or
licenses to make, use and vend either of the
inventions within the Commonwealth of
Australia. Particulars of the inventions
obtainable from Griffith, Hassel and
Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Patents.
r p'HE proprietors of Commonwealth Pat-
ents Nos. 10,427/27 in respect of an
invention entitled “Improvements in light-
ning arresters,” and 10,055/27 in respect
of an invention entitled “Electro magnetic
relays,” are prepared to negotiate for the
sale of their rights in either of the above,
or for the granting of a license or licenses
to make, use and vend either of the
inventions within the Commonwealth of
Australia. Particulars of the inventions
obtainable from Griffith, Hassel and
Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
COMMONWEALTH
LOAN
INTEREST: 3| PER CENT.
PRICE OF ISSUE: PAR.
TERM: 10 YEARS.
The Loan will be used for financing public works for the States
and for redemption of Treasury Bills.
Applications for the Loan may be lodged now at any Bank,
Savings Bank, or Money Order Post Office, or with any member
of a recognised Stock Exchange.
Subscriptions may be paid in one amount in full when appli-
cation is lodged, or by deposit of 1 0 per cent, with the application,
and balance in one amount before Monday, 16th January, 1933.
interest at the rate of 3f per cent, will be paid as from the date
of lodgment.
Interest will not be subject to any special tax upon income
from property imposed by any Statute (whether corresponding to
Section five of the Income Tax Act 1931 or not), or income tax
under Commonwealth law to a greater extent than that imposed by
the Income Tax Act 1930 as amended by Section two of the Income
Tax Act (No. 2) 1930; and will not be subject to any income tax
under the law of a State.
The Stock and Bonds of this issue will be accepted at par,
with due allowance for interest accrued since the last interest pay-
ment, in payment of Commonwealth Estate Duty.
Applications will be received up to Monday, sth December,
1932.
Right reserved to the Treasurer tc close the Loan at an earlier
date.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra, F.C.T.
J. A. LYONS,
Treasurer.
Money Saved is Money Gained
Big SAVINCf
LA.
WIRE.
IRON.
*
GROCERIES
DRAPERY.
Many thousands of pounds have been
saved the Producers of Queensland
through our organisation. Tremendous
turnover, buying for cash and supply-
ing the goods direct enable us to do
this. We invite comparison. Why
Pay More?
Being the largest Suppliers of Wire-
netting and Galv. Iron in Queens-
land, don't purchase elsewhere until
you get our quotations. Prices will
astonish you. Latest Price List
posted free. There is no extra to
pay for Sales Tax. We are Sole
Agents for Hibiscus Wire—no other
firm can supply the genuine Hibiscus.
GALV. CORK. IRON.—Oft. size, unbranded rejects, but perfectly new. Suitable
tor Sheds I owl Houses, Garages, Fences or cheap Buildings. Price whilst
it lasts, 2/- per sheet. Send cash with order.
BARB WIRE.—We manufacture for the Queensland Government. You also get
direct factory prices from 17/6 per coil of 440 yards. Write for factory
prices.
GALVANISED IRON. —In response to many requests for a high-grade Galv. Iron
in exchange for our customers’ wool we send to London, we have just
landed a shipment of British Best-quality Phoenix Crown, 26g., at £2B/10/-
ton ; also ordinary British Crown, 26g., £27/5/- ton. Lysaght’s Australian
Orb—we do 26g. at £23/15/- ton. '
Remember, no Extra to Pay for Sales Tax on any of our goods.
We are supplying tank material from British iron.
SEPARATORS.—As sole agents for the New Era, you get the very latest
Separator at factory prices. Awarded first prize last Brisbane Exhibition.
1^« ga !;c fs/10/ ' ; 22 S aL > WIO/-: 30 gal., £ll/10/-; 45 gal., £l6; 60 gal.,
£1,1; DO gal., £22 ; 125 gal, £35. Less 10 p.c. discount for cash.
CREAM CANS. —Tinned Steel Seamless Cream Cans.
2 3 4 5 6 8 10 gals.
Price 17/- 18/3 19/6 22/- 24/3 27/- 30/-
Less 10. p.c. discount for cash with order.
We will also pay the freight free of charge on Separators and Cream Cans
if cash accompanies the order.
Lowest also for Hibiscus Cottonseed Meal, £6/17/6 ton, or 15/- bag of 2001 b.
Linseed Oil, in 4-gal. tins, Raw 4/3 gal., Boiled 4/8 gal. Venus Cold Safes
(no ice required), 25/- and 37/6. Dover Stoves, No. 7, 67/6, with piping free.
Three-ply, 2/- per sheet, Oft. x 3ft. K. Wire —we allow anyone. 25 p.c., Piping
35 p.c. and 10 p.c. off Bg. Galv. Wire, 16/- cwt.
TARPAULINS—We allow 10 p.c. off makers’ prices. STRONG LATH
VERANDAH BLINDS, 6d. per sq. ft. Latest WATERPROOF COATS—Rever-
sible coat, one side Black, the other Navy; Men’s and Ladies’ same price, 18/11,
posted free. MEN’S IPSWICH FLANNEL UNDERSHIRTS, full size, 5/6, or
3 for 15/9, posted free.
WRITE FOR COPYRIGHTED CATALOGUE—IT WILL SAVE YOU POUNDS.
We have no agents whatsoever. AH orders must be sent direct to us.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty.,Ltd.
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.
THE “1.X.L.” LAMP
Gives a
Brilliant,
White,
Diffusive
Light.
Candle-power, 40
Burning Period,
5 hours.
Carbide Capacity,
lib.
Approximate
running cost per
hour, Id.
Height to burner,
1 1 inches.
Weight (empty),
Ulb.
Directions for use
with each lamp.
fsdf
PRICE 61-
Postage paid to
any address.
Made in Australia.
Burns Australian-
made fuel.
Suitable for both
indoors and out-
of-doors lighting.
Will not blow out
in the wind.
Unaffected by
insects or dust.
The simplest and
cheapest means of
portable lighting
on farm and
station.
Ideal for country houses, shearing and packing sheds, station quarters,
dairies, camps, week-end cottages and sea-side shacks, boats, country halls, etc.
By using this lamp you will help to support Australian industries.
If unobtainable locally, send postal note to
H. JONES & CO. PTY., LTD.
G.P.O. Box 639 “D,” HOBART, TASMANIA.
Distributing Agents for Australia for “I.XX.” Carbide.
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office —Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).
AN AUSTRALIAN FACTORY IN AN AUSTRALIAN GARDEN
IF I
n ,
f{
-
BaR « H
a.Lais
m
ivvt
V "A
• ,T\
’'l.V
'.-■>4
•fc-;-
SV»
Amalgamated Wireless has been
manufacturing wireless transmitting
and receiving equipment of every
type for the past nineteen years.
In addition to equipment manufac-
tured for its own communication ser-
vices, Australian manufactured wire-
less installations have been supplied to
the United Kingdom, Japan, Denmark,
New Zealand, New Guinea, Papua, Fiji,
Samoa, Tonga, Portuguese East Africa
and the French Pacific possessions.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
Manufacturers of the
RADI O L A
THE FINEST BkOADCAST RECEIVER


E
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Oaultield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO PERCIVAL WILLIAM SMITH,
formerly of Redcliffs in Victoria, but
now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife, Mabel
May Victoria Smith, of Hamilton, in the
State of Victoria, Married Woman, lias
instituted proceedings against you for a
Divorce on the ground of desertion for a
period of three years without just cause
or excuse. Unless you enter an appearance
in the office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before the
first day of December, 1932, and file au
answer on or before the eleventh day of
December, 1932, the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs.
CAMERON & LOWENSTERN,
Hamilton,
Proctors for the Petitioner.
Next-of-kin Wanted of
IWIISS JANE WARREN, sometime Tobac-
conist in Glasgow, and residing at 485
Cathedral Street, Glasgow, who died on
July 30, 1932. Miss Warren was the only
surviving child of John Warren, Coach-
builder, and Elizabeth Earquhar or Warren,
his wife, who were married at Liverpool on
March 2, 1870, and resided at 55 Soho
Street there, and afterwards at 485 Cathed-
ral Street, Glasgow.
Any information regarding the next-of-
kin or other relatives to be sent to
JOHN MARTIN. TAYLOR & CO.,
Solicitors,
21 Bath Street, Glasgow, Scotland.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
Sydney kept its two minutes’ silence last
week—a Sydney with poppies in its coat
and memories in its eyes. Martin-place was
filled once more with the pomp of uniform,
the glitter of bayonet. Khaki, blue and
gold, blue and white stood bravely under the
speckless sky, and the Cenotaph was rever-
ently heaped with fragrant blooms. Here
stood a giant laurel wreath, placed by the
Premier on behalf of his Government. Close
beside, a small bunch of roses gloried in the
sun, and richly-wreathed flowers breathed
the tribute of the British ex-service men.
There were no speeches, and the thousands
gathered in Martin-place waited with the
solemnity of a cathedral congregation the
striking of the first note of 11. Then
Sydney was plunged into an abyss of silence
—no echo but those of memories. For two
minutes a city communed with its dead;
two minutes packed for many a woman with
all her youth and hope, two minutes packed
for the ex-Digger with remembered deeds of
chivalry and sacrifice in fields of France, on
heights of Gallipoli. Out floated the notes
of the Last Post; the present was with us
again; and sudden on the ear burst the
clamor of traffic fleeing madly in pursuit, or
so it seemed, of the lost two minutes. But
human hearts are not machine-made. Women
sold poppies and men bought them, remem-
bering.
Bright sunshine, white flannels and the
perfect courts at Rushcutter Bay make
an irresistible combination, and when there’s
real match tennis several thousand are
sure to be there. Last week the grassy
banks and the stands were crowded to see
the contest between America’s star-spangled
banner and Australia’s own bestarred flag.
It was very exciting to watch Willard’s
backhand and Van Ryn’s forehand and the
positively Yo-Yo alertness of McGrath and
Vines. But really there should be some
speed regulations on tennis courts —all those
runs and dashes on a hot day are quite too
exhausting. The Girl in the Flat Opposite
declares she dropped tw 0 pounds from just
looking on. But that’s carrying sympathy
to extremes.
Mayoress Walder brought her usual sunny
smile. She wore a daffodil dress and a
white, straw hat, and Mrs. Jack Crawford
was very smart in brown and a perfect fit
in berets. Madge Elliott was among the
spectators, as, of course, were knight Henry
Braddon and the wives 0 f the visiting Ameri-
cans. Miss Crowdy and Commander Gifford
brought a flavor of Government House the
first day, and on the second Sir Philip and
Lady Game were there to applaud Jack
Crawford. Our own girl tennis stars and
embryo stars added to the melee of highly-
colored sports coats, among which bright
blues ran first favorite with the younger
women. White shoes with black or tan
bindings were everywhere.
St. Thomas’s Church in North Sydney will
bless still another bride on November 19.
She is Ruth Neilley, daughter of the Victor
Neilleys; father is the chief cashier of the
Commonwealth Bank. Bridegroom-to-be is
Harold Snclling, of Habcrfield. Ruth is a
keen worker for the C.W.A., and father is
president of the C. of E. homes at Canling-
ford.
It was a lucky day for Robert Johnson,
the young ex-Maoriland painter, when The
Bulletin decided to give the artists a
hand by providing them with a gallery in
which’ to show.their wares. In eight montus
12 of Johnson’s pictures have been sold —
an average of one every three weeks. The
latest purchase was made for the Geelong
Gallery.
Sydney’s friend Earl Beauchamp has
come back for still another visit. With
him he has brought his second son, the
Hon. Hugh Lygon, who has all the Lygon
good looks. The two are, at present, at
the Australia, but are busy deciding on a
house, somewhere close to a beach. One of
the first engagements Lord Beauchamp
made was with the Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers. With P. R. Stephensen,
of the Australian Publishing Co., Madame
Dussap (wife of France’s Consul-General
and herself a novelist). Miles Franklin and
Nettie Palmer, he will be a guest at the
F.A.W. party on November 23 at the Arts
Club. Secretary Marjorie Quinn is. arrang-
ing the party, and Joan Mackaness is round-
ing up musical talent.
This Letter has decided after hearing the
Fascist anthem that it need never again
feel apologetic for “God Save.” For the
expression of an unmusical nation, the old
effort stands up very well in comparison.
Which reflection was aroused at the Lit-
torio Ball at Romano’s when Italy’s
national anthem and Fascist anthem
announced the arrival of Marchese Ferrante,
Consul-General for Italy. Surrounding him
were the official party, among whom little
Mrs. Fiaschi went as ribboned as any, with
her three Italian and three Australian deco-
rations for her Red Cross work in the war
zones. The ball, which is a popular yearly
festivity of Italy in Svdney, is to celebrate
the Fascist march on Rome, the King of
Italy’s birthday and the signing of the
Italian Armistice; and the ladies wore their
prettiest with an air, and the men toasted
one another in the very excellent wines
that were served without extra charge. The
spirit of last week’s party was gay and the
decorations blazed with the green, red and
white of Italy. On the table where the
Marchese and his party sat was a basket,
high and wide, of deep red roses, and the
same flower was spilled in richness on the
board. The Consul-Genei'al, while good-
looking, has not the striking profile of his
predecessor, Grossardi, whose head might
have served as model for some old Roman
coin. His wife, busy with her newly born-
in-Australia baby, was not present, but
daughter Virginia arrived fresh as spring
in primrose satin, its cape of primrose
tulle edged with velvet flowers. Italy’s
Vice-Consul Vitali and Mrs. Vitali —she
carried beautiful flowers and wore black
chiffons embossed with crystal motifs —and
capable secretary Mrs. Stassi in black laces
were others in the official group. In her
white taffeta with its puffed tulle sleeves,
Mrs. Fiaschi looked more like an alert
schoolgirl than the clever business woman
she is. Dr. Marie Bentivoglio in her blue
flowered taffeta and Florentine ear-rings,
Sophie Segaert in brown satins—she came
with her father, Belgium’s .Consul-General —
and Mrs. Ferrari-Passmore, whose ear-
rings and coral-pink satin frock matched,
were others among the well-known. Dr.
Moran and Mrs. Moran were at home in
the vowelful company—her frock was of
dark brown lace. Consul-General for
Switzerland Bloch came with his wife.
France was represented by her Vice-Consul.
The George Nassoors, of opera renown, were
there, she in almond-pink lace. Among
the titled of the night were Prince del
Drago and Marchese de Mayda.
With the arrival of the Americans every-
body has begun to talk tennis, and there is
quite a polite rush to get a glimpse of the
wives of the visiting players. And this is
just as much because we want to see what
their clothes are like as because their hus-
bands have a brilliant service or a paralys-
ing backhand. The civic reception was a
happy affair staged in the Walder manner,
but the party at the Rushcutter Bay club-
house was jollier. Here the visitors were
among people who spoke their own language,
and were busy making friends with the local
champions.
Frank Peach and his wife (he is president
of the N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Association)
welcomed the guests, and her black crepe
suit and shiny black straw hat certainly
win a word of approval. This Letter liked
the mulberry frock worn by Mrs. Van Ryn.
It had puffed sleeves and a high neckline,
and it was worn with a little swathed toque
of the same crepe as her frock. Mrs. Wil-
mer Allison brought claret-toned, crinkly
crepe frocking, and topped it with a small
helping of black hat; Mrs. Ellsworth Vines’s
forest-greens contrasted well with Mayoress
Walder’s rose-flushed chiffons and coat.
Crawfords, Andersons, Willards and Norman
Peaches occurred about the big room, and
women stars like Mrs. Roy Cozens, Dorothy
Dingle and Joan Hartigan pushed their
haloes modestly in the background, content
to shine forth in summer frocking. America’s
Consul-General and Mrs. Caldwell and the
Albert Doyles were among the enthusiasts
who watched the dazzling practice display
put up by the three visiting husbands and
Keith Gledhill after tea.
Sun and shadow and the rustle of winds
in the trees Douglas Pratt has captured
in the pencil sketches which make up the
greater part of his show in the Grosve.nor
Galleries. They seemed to be irresistible
to women, and at the opening the other
day the sex not only cooed like doves over
them, but actually put their hands in their
purses and bought. Miss Rutledge secured
a stretching bit of Scone landscape, and
Mrs. Darling sealed for her own the draw-
ing of the old colonial houses in Macquarie-
street. Lennox Bridge, Parramatta, and
“The Two Elms” at Gostwyck were this
writer’s mental choice. Minister for Edu-
cation Drummond (once a station manager
himself) did the opening, and Jimmy Mac-
donald of the National Gallery provided the
introductory remarks. Howard Hinton
bought two of the pictures, and the Whites
of Scone a bit of their own district. The
artist himself, who was once a surveyor,
was there in a navy suit looking robust and
full of vitamins. Gordon Esling, whose own
recent show netted over a hundred guineas,
was another at the friendly opening.
The whole of the Savoy is booked out for
the first night of the Theresian Club’s pre-
sentment of
the life story
of its name
saint. The
play will run
from the 17th
(T h u rsday)
till the 21st,
and is the star
event in a
series of
money - raisers
by which the
girls of the
club expect to
realise £IOOO
for the poor
children of the
city. A play
which has
neither sex
nor mystery,
p 1 ac e nor
power, for its
theme is a
strange visitant to the stage, but the girls,
who several years ago banded together in
a mouselike quietness in the name of the
“Little Flower” for the relief of poverty
and distress, are confident of a successful
season. Edna Chapman, the smiling girl
in this Falk picture, is the secretary of the
club and one of the principals in the play.
Mrs. Vivers, still in Jenner as the result
of her accident, is justly proud of the result
of the flower festival for the Industrial Blind
Institute. Each queen in the rose competi-
tion represented at least £IOO to the fund,
and the cost of the pageant raiment to the
committee worked out at about £7, because
the girls provided their own robes. Almost
£2OOO was handed in for the cause —not bad
for a city from which various charities dur-
ing the previous month had lifted about
£IO,OOO.
St. Mark’s at Darling Point purred
approval over another sumptuous wedding
last week. Elspeth Macpherson was the
bride and Tom Vincent the ’groom, and the
vows were served with blossom, white ninon
and tulle and three good-looking bridesmaids.
And there was a cocktail party later at
the home of the bride’s mother in Double
Bay; and here the bridesmaids, Jean Ander-
son, Barbara Smart and Sheila Vincent,
were much admired in their rhythmic frocks
of water-color pink, blue and green respec-
tively. Mrs. Macpherson wore sleek black
satin and a brimful black straw hat, and
Donald Macpherson, who had squired his
sister to the altar, was an important person.
Sculptor Tlieo Cowan’s pottery exhibit was
such a success that, with the exception of
some small pieces, it was bought out in one
afternoon. Jugs and bowls of lilac, green
and yellow glaze, on which native bears and
bushland nut and leaf were modelled, were
not only exclaimed over but were bought by
the well-dressed women and men (Oswald
Cheeke and tall W. G. Layton among these)
who were at the opening.
Myra Leard, who is to play the exacting-
part of Laura in Montgomery Stuart’s pre-
sentment of Strindberg’s play “The Father,”
has been seen in as many and as varied
r6les as any amateur in Sydney. Among
them are Hecuba in “Trojan Women,” Shir-
ley in “Street Scene” and Mary in “The
Middle Watch.” Sybil Thorndike was so
impressed with Myra’s work that she gave
her a letter to the J.C.W. management.
Back in Sydney for a holiday are the
John Horns. She was Shirley Bavin, and
there was great joy last week in the Winch-
combe and Bavin clans. The Horns’ home
is in Surrey (England), and baby Valerie
Elizabeth is having her first glimpse of
Sydney. Mrs. Horn will wait in the bosom
of her family when husband in a week or
two makes a journey to New Guinea.
This is a Dorothy Welding photo of Mrs.
C. H. Voss, the wife of Australia’s Trade
Commissioner
in Paris. Mr.
Voss will
arrive in De-
cember, an and
this will be
his first visit
to Sydney in
20 years. In
the meantime
his mother
and his wife
are keeping
each other
company.
Joseph Cook's
lady, who had
already met
Mrs. Voss in
Paris, extend-
ed the hand
of welcome on
behalf of the
Arts Club to
her last week,
and John Matthew Voss made the speech in
reply for his mother.
The news of the closing down of No. 138
Piccadilly, the old London headquarters of
the Lyceum Club, will fill the Sydney branch
of that pioneer women’s club with regret.
The Australian clubs were affiliated with it,
and it provided a handsome and central
temporary home for many a traveller from
these parts. Its members were women
actively engaged in the arts, and when a
writer or musician frpm the Commonwealth
entered its iron-wrought doors she felt in
the right atmosphere. The club’s Monday-
night dinners were quite famous. The
Lyceum’s new address is No. 9 Chesterfield
Gardens, where business will be carried on
as usual. The reason for the move is of
course financial.
At a quarter past eight on Monday even-
ing Lud Mayor Walder opened the jubilee
carnival of the Royal Prince Alfred Hos-
pital. The great feature was the pageant,
which represented the Spirit of Australia.
The spirit had good company, and over 300
walked the boards with her, while an orches-
tra of 100 played stirring bits of Faust
and Peer Gynt. In the corridor a coster
cabaret was in full swing.
Bowral’s week-end excitement was the
wedding of Philippa Friend to Valdemar
Henry Rothe. Philippa is the younger
daughter of the Herbert Friends, of Burra-
doo, and the bridegroom is of Bundarra.
The church of St. Simon and St. Jude
blessed the vows, and a full complement; of
choristers and Padre Distin Morgan waited
the two on the sea of matrimony. The
bride wore crisp white organdie, the brides-
maids blue. The reception was at the bride’s
home, Laurel Park.
Miss Preston Stanley, the State’s first
(and last) woman member of Parliament,
one-time journalist and now in the real-
estate business, has broken into a fresh
field. She has written a play called “Whose
Child?” This, of course, draws its inspira-
tion from the Emelie Polini case, and its
theme is the right of a child to its mother’s
love. It will be remembered that Miss
Preston Stanley espoused the mother’s
cause very fervently, and secured the signa-
tures of 25,000 sympathisers. The author
has for 15 years worked for the Infants’
Guardianship Bill, so she has the sub-
ject at her finger-tips. In the play she her-
self will act the part of the woman member
of Parliament. Nancy Stewart and Mayne
Linton, Mollie Rayner and John Warwick
are others in the production, which will be
under the direction of George Parker.
Elsie Segaert, of Manly, and of many
tongues, is up to her eyes arranging the
tour which she hopes to conduct through
Central Europe next year. Bohemia,
Bavaria, Austria and Hungary are included
in her list of fascinating places. Venice and
Florence, Naples, Rome s Zurich, Brussels,
Paris, in short all the cities the stay-at-home
has ever dreamed about, are on Elsie’s
itinerary and her flock will number 10 or 12.
Chief among the records of the Harbor
Bridge celebrations, which are about to be
deposited in the Mitchell Library, is an offi-
cial history of the organisation written by
D. G. Macdougall, who was publicity officer
to the celebrations committee.
Kathleen, daughter of George Millard, of
the Federal Parliamentary Library, became
Mrs. Ernest Burns at St. Christopher’s in
Canberra —Father Hayden the locksmith.
Great interest attached to the bride’s veil,
which was lent by the Sisters of the Order
of Faithful Companions of Jesus at Vau-
cluse in Melbourne, where Kathleen was a
student, and was made by members of the
order in Brussels.
Brisbane brevities:—
Deputy-Governor Blair and his Wife were at the
races. The lady wore raisin crepe de Chine
and a white hat; Mrs. E. M. Ralph was in brown
and amber; a light-brown and apricot crepe de
Chine garbed Mrs. R. A. Dowling; Mrs. Buchanan
Steele favored oyster silk; Oi'ine Bell had touches
of red, white and blue with an ivory frock ; Helen
Turner (Dunedin) was in a brown-patterned dress;
Cecily Cadell Garrick chose floral voile.
Nancy Echlin announces her engagement to Eric
Feldt. The bride-to-be, a daughter of Captain and
Mrs. Echlin and a niece of General Brudenell \\ hite,
is a pretty blonde, well known in journalistic circles.
Freda Bage represented the League of Nations,
with Kitty Stark and E. L. H. Gibson, at the Goethe
Bund’s welcome to Captain Hans Bertram. Con-
sul J. Beirs was accompanied by his wife, who wore
amethyst lace. The president and Mrs. Hulsen
received, the latter wearing a pink, blue and green-
patterned georgette. A laurel wreath was presented
to the guest; Erich John, Grace Mewing, H. Rosen-
dorff and R. Hulsen gave a musical programme.
Dame Sybil’s company has been doing well at
His Majesty’s. At the reception to the actress in
the City Hall red roses and palms decked the
Mayoress’s room, Mrs. Greene receiving in water-lily
green patterned in white lotus. Brown and white
in futurist design w T as worn by Dame Sybil. Mrs.
Vincent Macrossan sang. The Blair. Cowley and
Philp ladies, Mrs. Forgan Smith, Professor and Mrs.
Cumbrae Stewart, Professor and Mrs. J. J. Stable,
Mr. and Mrs. P. J. Symes and Barbara Sisley were
amongst the throng.
At her Coorparoo home, Doreen Halligan had a
bridge party for Bernice Stafford, who marries Frank
Fowler, of Melbourne, in December. For Mavis
Turnbull, who is marrying W. Isbel, the Lota ladies’
choir had a shower evening.
Linga Longa seaside home has been celebrating its
seventh birthday. Mrs. J. P. Peterson, wearing beige
blue and red, received. Mrs. A. E. Moore wore
natural shantung with brown and orange scarf ;
black with a white hat was worn by the Mayoress;
Mrs. Forgan Smith was in navy with touches of
pink and blue; Mrs. Graham Mylne was in black
patterned in cream and gold. The last, as State
president of the C.W.A., cut the birthday cake.
Major and Mrs. B. C. Bell had a dinner
at Lennon’s in honor of Captain Hans Bertram.
Amongst the diners were Enid and Una Bell, Leith
Graham, Marjorie Mant, Lilian Walsh, J. H. S.
Barnes, J. M. Bell, Ludorff and H. Nicholls.
Mrs. Fred Tritton and members of the Women’s
Club greeted Dame Sybil Thorndyke in their rooms
amid tiger lilies and Dorothy Perkins roses. Florence
Micheli looked after the music, to which Mildred
Bell, Marie Knight-Corkran and Beatrice McCullough
contributed.
At the Australian Hotel a luncheon was set for
Dame Sybil and Lewis Casson in a background of
salmon-lined gladioli, the Queensland Institute of
Publicity being the hosts. The guest of honor wore
primrose; other members of her company were
amongst the 60 lunchers.
At the Brisbane Girls’ Grammar, president C. G.
Jones, of the Old Girls’ Association, had a party for
the unveiling of a picture willed to the school by
the late Annie Mackay. This is “The Return of
Persephone,” given in memory of the late Bertha
Burdorf, one of the first pupils at the school, of
which she was to become mistress.
Win. Fowles, Governing Director of Car-
lyon’s Hotel, Spencer Street, Melbourne,
offers you this season not only Victoria’s
greatest refined hotel
values thus: Single
Rooms from 4/6
day; Double from
7/6; and meals
optional (also at
reduced rates in
Tearooms or Cafe) ;
Room with Break-
fast from 6/6 Single
or 11/6 Double—all
less 10 p.c. if stay-
ing one week or
more; and com-
plete Board from
10/6 day or 65/-
week (both net) ; but, in addition, if you
motor, Win. Fowles garages your car abso-
lutely free of charge in the hotel garage, con-
veniently next door, during your entire stay.
Such value, service and convenience are not
obtainable at any other refined hotel in the
City of Melbourne. Please write for our
tariff card, which gives all information, or
state your requirements and we will gladly
quote rates. Special quotations for clubs,
conferences, families, etc. The Manager,
Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient
address for your letter.


A HEARTY WELCOME AWAITS YOU
AT THE HOTEL SYDNEY
Country, r 'ity and Professional men —Interstate
and Overseas—Visitors, with one accord acclaim
the Hotel Sydney as the personification of service,
comfort, convenience and moderate tariff. The
artistic arrangement of every room, the spacious
dining-room and restful lounges, the appetising
menus, and the atmosphere of dignity and quality
create an irresistible appeal to every traveller. The
Hotel Sydney is opposite the Central Railway
Station, facing Belmore Park, and is conveniently
located near the shopping centres and theatre areas,
and is only a step from the trams serving all the
popular Surf Beaches. Therefore the Hotel Sydney
is the first choice of Country Visitors.
It is worthy of note that the popular RICHMOND
BITTER, LAGER, PILSNER and STOUT
are exclusively stocked by this Hotel, which prides
itself on serving only the best of everything.
Richmond is 100% Pure.
wmmmm
m
w.
£
mt.
m
tm
>*w«"y
a.
v .
r#«5S&
-V
1
t
uum
rnm
m
ssko
V.
°//V
"»G
G&
"On
Waou*
y\ Mo
*l\?.
V
v\ *i(.h monO Mi
7-XaaewiHc.cvt
HOTEL SYDNEY
Pitt & Hay Sts, Sydney
Where Richmond Bitter. Pilsner. Lager. Stout are served


Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: LILAC TIME.
KING’S THEATRE: AUJUMN CROCUS.
’“PUB new book-publishing scheme,
1 sponsored by The Bulletin, is to
make a feature of Australian explora-
tion stories. “The Barrier Miner” has
published some Christmas Supplements
on those lines with great success. This
evergreen daily, published at Broken
Hill, seems to be alive to everything
good. No wonder it is popular with
readers of all classes.
Hint for Sallow
CONSTIPATED
PEOPLE—
Stop taking salts and other harsh laxatives
that irritate and weaken the bowels. Such
things merely force and sometimes throw an
added burden on the other organs. That’s
why your constipation returns, and why you
are pale, sallow, languid, have specks before
the vision, and feel “achey.” Try Harrison’s
Pills. These give you a gentle yet thorough
internal cleansing, and at the same time tone
your kidneys and bladder to renewed healthy
activity, removing uric acid —the system’s great
poison. All chemists sell Harrison’s Pills at
trifling cost, and they are sold on a straight-
forward guarantee of complete satisfaction or
refund of money. By taking Harrison’s Pills
for a little while, the weakening and harmful
“daily dosing” habit becomes an evil of the
past.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Svdney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
Though the sun shone, the air was warm
and the flower-beds at Caulfield were mak-
ing their bravest show of the year, dressing
at the mid-week race meeting suggested that
Melbourne women have become confirmed
pessimists regarding the intentions of the
Clerk of the Weather. Among those who
cast fear aside and welcomed summer in
seasonable attire was Mrs. Ben Chaffey,
whose reseda-green silk, figured in a small
design in brown and amber, was topped by
a green straw hat wreathed with roses. Her
daughter, Mrs. Campbell, wore a light suit
in cocoa shade, with a darker toned straw
hat, Delightfully cool-looking was the bis-
cuit-colored chiffon gown, patterned in dark
blue, inlet with fine cream lace and topped
by a tusean hat, that Mrs. Arthur Paterson
favored. Mrs. Len Buxton, in white, sup-
plied a dash of color with a scarf spotted
in red. A large black hat shaded Mrs.
Forbes Mackenzie’s georgette draperies of
pink-tinted georgette with a tracery of black.
Mrs. J. H. Moss, who accompanied her, wore
black georgette patterned with field flowers
and a large hat. Mrs. George Flannery,
of Sydney, was there in a liair-striped brown
silk suit with a lacquered brown straw hat.
The skies were grey and the breeze cold
for the race meeting at Williamstown on
Saturday. Chairman J. J. Liston and the
committee entertained many people at
luncheon, among their guests being Judge
Williams, J. H. Leinhop, chairman of the
Bendigo Racing Club, ex-Premier Hogan,
and Pat Osborne, of the A.J.C. Mrs. J. J.
Liston was there in reseda green georgette
topped with a long coat of the same shade
having edgings of brown fur. Her straw
hat was a matching green. AA 7 ith Mrs. Lis-
ton was Mrs. H. J. Cohen, in brown tweed
ensemble. Mrs. E. J. Hogan’s saxe blue
frock was worn with a black cloth coat
and black hat banded with white. Dr. Lorna
Bray favored the magpie contrast in her
gown and millinery. Mrs. Neil Smith, in
an apple-green knitted sports suit, was
accompanied by Mrs. Fred Knight. Other
patrons were Mrs. J. B. McArthur, Mrs.
Charles AVilson, Mrs. J. Rattey and Mrs.
Clive Pratt, all in brown; and Mrs. Clive
Leonard, Mrs. J. Fell and j\lrs. AY. P.
Mein, the last-named a study in bottle-
green. Tree tulip blossoms were in favor
as coat posies.
Among those *who watched the play on
the first three days of the England-Victoria
cricket match were Lieut.-Governor Irvine,
knight Leo Cussen, Mrs. Fred Thiel and
her .daughter Mrs. Gordon Cliirnside, Mrs.
Fred Bishop, Mrs. D. Carnegie and Mrs.
Neil Lawrance and her daughter Betty.
The Canberra was ablaze with festoons of
electric lights for a jollo given by Rear-
Admiral Dalglish and Captain Farquhar
Smith. Among the dancers were Commander
Ilowden and Mrs. Howden, she in white
satin and chiffon, and Surgeon-Commander
Darby, who brought along his wife, whose
gown was of reseda-green hue. Lud Mayor
Smith, Mrs. Cleve Kidd, arrayed in dark-
blue chiffon, and Betty Moore, charming in
wheat-colored taffeta, were longshore visitors.
To aid the Monash House building fund, the
Judean League organised, a ball at St. Kilda
Town Hall. Chief guests were the Gov-
ernor-General and his lady, for whom there
was a guard of honor of Boy Scouts. The
president of the committee, Mrs. Harold
Cohen, handed to her Ex. a bouquet of
pink tinted rhododendrons that went nicely
with the lady’s white gown, which had a
sparkle of crystal. A “most popular girl”
competition was won by Zelma Brandon,
the enterprise netting £270. Mrs. Cohen’s
black gown was embroidered in gold. The
vice-presidents were Mrs. R. Hallenstein, in
black with a gleam of crystal, Mrs. A. Ash-
keuasy, who wore a draped gown of old
gold velvet, and Mrs. L. Morris, who
blended in her brown frock satin and lace.
Hon. sec. Mrs. A. Harris and hon. treas.
Mrs. E. Solomon both wore draperies of
black.
The Proscenium Club’s hop was attended
by many members of the Alliance Franpaisc.
The president 0 f the club, Madame Cocker-
ton, danced in white flat crepe contrasted
with a green necklace. Rene Vanderkelen,
president of the A.F., came with his wife,
whose white georgette frock was chenille
embossed.
Mrs. Frank Beavis organised a bridge
party on cafe chantant lines at the Austral
Salon in aid of the Hommopathic Hospital.
The hon. sec. of the salon, Edith Billing-
hurst, Mrs. B. Bentley and Mrs. F. B.
Suhr gave assistance with the tea-distribu-
tion and sales of flowers and sweets. Among
the singers was soprano Beatrice Oakley.
At the National Rose Society’s show at
the Town Hall the championship went to
a white British Queen with most elegantly
curled petals, grown by 11. 11. Neville, of
Blackburn. Other outstanding features were
bunches of gorgeous dark-red Hawlmarksand
apricot-hued Lady Hillingdons. Alister Clark
sent whole battalions of blooms that rose
into a central pyramid of pink Sunny
Souths. The stage had a tall hedge of
sweet-peas as background for a bank of
ferns that served as a setting for baskets
and groupings of every shade fef roses.
Burnley Horticultural College was repre-
sented by an arch covered with the finest of
climbers. Lovelier roses than this year’s
were never shown in the city, and they
are beautifully clean —the thrip and the
aphis being apparently on holiday this
season. Lud Mayor Smith launched the
show.
Madame de Bavay, attired in black lace
ninon with a black hat of fine straw, staged
a bridge party at her home, Kew, in honor
of the Isaacs lady. Masses of pink and
red roses and other flowers decked the re-
ception- and dining-rooms. A gown of navy
blue georgette with a vest of ecru lace,
topped by a dark blue hat, was worn by
the G.-G.’s wife, who was accompanied by
her secretary. Miss D. Graham. Marie de
Bavay was in georgette of cafe an lait hue,
featuring pintucks, with matching millinery.
The Garden Week Committee invaded the
tourist steamer Ulysses when she tied up
at Port Melbourne, and held a flower and
shrub display aboard. The E.S.U. gave the
Ulysses passengers a reception at the George
Hotel, St. Ivilda, Prof. AY. A. Osborne, who
deputised for the president, knight Arthur
Robinson, making a speech of welcome.
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Brookes gave a
party at their South Yarra home in cele-
bration of the 89th birthday of J. Henning
Thompson one of the early teachers at Mel-
bourne Boys’ Grammar School. Mrs.
Brookes is a daughter of the great Deakin,
who was one of Mr. Thompson’s pupils, and
her house, now much enlarged, was the resi-
dence of the Deakin family. In the assembled
company were many old Melbournians. A
cake with 89 candles was cut by Mr. Thomp-
son after he had drawn upon his memories
of the years from 1853 to 1900. The pre-.
sent generation of scholars of the M.G.S.
was represented by a number of the choris-
ters, who sang delightfully—among other
items, the school song and verses of Shelley,
set to music by Dr. A. E. Floyd. The
hostess, in black satin, was aided by her
daughter Jessie, whose pale pink organdie
frock had a jackette of eyelet embroidery
and a purple and pink ribbon about the
waistline. The drawing-room was decked
with pink sweet-peas, and bowls of lilies
of the valley were placed all about the
room. Masses of lilac and cerise rhododen-
drons decorated the dining-room, where
supper was laid. Among the guests were
Mrs. Alfred Deakin, Lady O’Neill. Licut.-
Colonel White and Mrs. AA 7 hite. Dr. and
Mrs. A. C. Rivett, Chancellor MacFarland
of the Uni., the Rev. Grove and Mrs. Grove,
and Miss Lilian Irving.
Paymaster-Lieutenant C. H. Blacklock, of
the Canberra, kept a tryst at All Saints’,
St. Kilda, with Ha?el, daughter of the late
Mr. and Mrs. S. H. Mansfield, of Elstern-
wick. The bride was arrayed in ivory-
tinted angel-skin lace, with a tulle veil. Her
’maids sported daffodil-hued, flounced georg-
ette frocks, and carried sheaves of del-
phiniums. A small boy who acted as page
wore the cream satin shirt and long trousers
at present fashionable in such circumstances.
It was a naval wedding, the ’groom’s
brother-officers forming a guard of honor
with an arch of swords for the newly-weds
to pass under on leaving the church. After-
rejoicings were staged at Grosvenor, Toorak.
Wearing a trained cream satin gown, long
of sleeve, and a Limerick veil, Rosa, youngest
daughter of the David Bells, of Prince’s
Hill, exchanged vows with William, only
son of the late Mr. and Mrs. Andrew
Donaldson, at the C'ollins-street kirk. The
bride was attended by her sister, Mrs. Ralph
Wilson, whose pink frock was topped by a
flower-trimmed hat of the same tint. There
was a dinner afterwards at the Occidental.
Prudence Staughton, the nice-looking lass
pictured here
by Broothorn,
is the latest
recruit to the
Austral ian
talkies, hav-
ing lately
signed a con-
tract for a
r6le in Pat
Hanna’s new
comedy,
“Diggers in
Blight y,”
which is to
burst upon
the screen
next month.
Miss Staugh-
ton hails from
the Western
District and
was one of the
debs, at a vice-
regal ball near
the end of the Stonehaven regime.
The knot-tying of Olga Brudenell Bruche,
daughter of Major-General J. H. Bruche
and Mrs. Bruche, with Captain Reginald
H. Le M, Lawrence has been arranged for
the sth of next month at the fashionable
St. John’s Church. Toorak.
The Lucius Conollys, not long back from
foreign parts, entertained Mar.nie Falkiner
and her fiance, John Fitts, at a cocktail
party. Mrs. Conolly was in pink linen
made in pinafore mode with puff sleeves of
white; and Miss Falkiner chose the same
hue for a crepe frock that was topped by
a white straw hat. Lud Mayor Smith was
among the guests.
Priminister Lyons’s wife opened the
Happy Days Fair of the Methodist Ladies’
College Old Collegians’ Club at Malvern
Town Hall. Mrs. W. L. Russell and Edith'
Barker organised the affair, which had a
rural atmosphere. Costumes of earlier times
were worn by the salesladies and those
who served tea in an old-world garden. Mrs.
Lyons, who received a posy, was introduced
by Mayor Gray, of Malvern. On the plat-
form were Premier Argyle and his lady,
Mayoress Gray, the Rev. J. AY. Grove and
Mrs. Grove and some members of the com-
mittee.
A means to lessen the debt on the Single-
ton Homes at Collingwood is the annual
Australian tea and sale, which is a giving-
and-buying affair. Patrons bring some-
thing to help stock a stall and buy things
other folk have donated. Mayor McHugh,
of _ Collingwood, launched this year’s enter-
prise, and results were satisfactory. These
homes, founded 60 years ago by Dr. Single-
ton, provide cheap but comfortable accom-
modation for over 50 women. Dr. Single-
ton’s daughters carried on the management
for many years after his death, and in 1924
the City Mission took over the responsi-
bility. In 1928 the residences were rebuilt
and modernised at a cost of £12,000, and
there is still £3OOO owing.
At an at-liome to aid the hostels for the
aged blind Maisie Ramsay, Mary Hotham.
Gregory Stroud and Bernard Manning, of
the musicomedy co. at the Royal, were the
entertainers, associated with Izobel Dun-
can, who recited, and Hamilton Bateman
with his Violin. Harold Rodgers was the
accompanist. The party was at Gwenley,
Toorak, the home of Mrs. E. L. Morton,
and Mrs. H. J. Robertson arranged the
programme, Mrs. J. B. Mills being hon.
sec. of the function.
Melbourne Jewry gave a good send-off to
Rabbi Brodie when he left on a trip to
England after nine years’ hard work. He
will be away for six months, and will spend
a few weeks with his old folks at Newcastle.
Dorothea Lamb, of Sydney, who has been
here on a visit, has planted in our midst
an offshoot of the Ivooroora Club, of which
she is president. It is a business girls’
organisation that does its bit for charity
and whose members meet at luncheon regu-
larly and listen to addresses. The inaugural
luncheon _ was held during Cup week and
a provisional committee lias been elected,
with Nell Gale as president, Bess Mann
hon. sec, and Nell Cram hon. treas. “Koo-
roora” is abo. for “Place of Happy Meet-
ings.”
The Dudley Bruntons have returned by
the Orford from their honeymoon tour. Mrs.
Brunton was Garda Howse, daughter of the
late medical-knight Howse, V.C., and of the
Howse lady, of South Yarra.
Looking out of this window is Dr. Gwen
Karnes, a graduate of Melb. Uni., who was
for some time
senior res i-
dent surgeon
at Queen Vic-
toria Hospital.
This experi-
e n c e was
amplified by
a term in a
similar post
at the Perth
Children’s
Hospi t a 1.
Wi s liing to
add to her
store of know-
ledge by study
on the other
side of the
world, Dr.
Kaines looked
for an inex-
pensive means
of getting
there, and
secured a position as ship’s surgeon on the
Swedish motor-ship Mirrabooka, which set
out last month. Broothorn made the picture.
Arthur Robinson and his lady are wel-
coming to Melbourne their son-in-law and
daughter, Mr. and Mrs. Huntly Griffith,
who live on a plantation in Ceylon. On
their way here the travellers halted for a
week at Perth to visit Colonel and Mrs.
A. R. Wiltshire.
Mrs. Aubrey Gibson and her sister Bea
Kimpton are sailing to Colombo on a holi-
day.
A. W. Nicholas, of the Aspro firm,
admitted the public to inspect the fine
gardens surrounding his home at Auburn
on Saturday afternoon. The passport was
a silver coin, and over £B5 went into the
coffers of the Free Kindergarten Union as
a result.
A script from S. Aus.: —
Mrs. Lavington Bonython is returning to Adelaide
by the Strathaird, with her mother, Mrs. S. B.
Rudall. They arrive on December 10. Mrs. Bony-
thon had a strenuous time as Mayoress and needed
the long holiday.
The Adelaide School of Opera, organised by Vera
Thrush and Harold Gard, proposes to stage grand
opera next year; it is now busy with concerts
to raise money for frocks and other essentials of
production.
Mr. and Mrs. Reginald Walker, of Folkestone,
Kensington Gardens, leave by the Nieuw Zeeland on
a trip to Asia; Miss Roslyn Row, a niece of
Mrs. Walker, will join them at Sydney. Mrs.
Walker has recently recovered from a serious illness.
Our first taste of real summer came when a f€te
for the disposal of Red Cross Hospital handicrafts
was held at “Undelcarra,” the residence of Mrs.
Alan Simpson, at Burnside. The stalls were arranged
in the garden and afternoon tea served in a large
marquee on the tennis court. An exhibition of
antique dolls was held in the billiard-room. Lady
Hore-Ruthven, who performed the opening ceremony,
was received by Mr. and Mrs. Simpson and Major
Woodcock. She wore a beige lace gown and a wide-
brimmed brown straw hat.
The dance held on the Westralia, at Port Adelaide,
on behalf of the Missions to Seamen, was a great
success. The Huddart Parker Co. provided the
supper and the music. Dr. E. W. Morris and Mr.
F. W. Porter welcomed his Ex. and Lady Hore-
Ruthven on the wharf, and Captain Darrock received
them on board the Westralia.
Miss Dora. Morris, only daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
E. W. Morris, left last week for Khartoum, where
she will be the guest of Colonel and Mrs. M. Hilary.
Later she will join her brother, Dr. E. W. T.
Morris, in the Southern Sudan, and will go to Eng-
land with him for his furlough.
A word from the West: —
The Alec Lawson couple will eat their Christmas
pudding over roaring fires. They left for abroad by
the Otranto and- plan to spend December in Scotland
with Mr. Lawson’s parents.
Brown-eyed Pat, younger daughter of the T. Y. A.
Lang couple, of Claremont, wears a sparklet slipped
upon her finger by Tom, son of Mrs. Kennedy,
of Forrest-avenue. Youthful Kitty Macartney is
also newly-aflianced, her man being Dr. Alec Magnus.
Perth College girls are thrilled over their 75ft. by
25ft. of cool green water. Lawns unfold to the
edge of the concrete pool and lattices and shrubberies
make an attractive background for the mermaids.
The Festival Choir, the Frank Robertson Ladies’
Choir and the Orpheus Society made a great success
of their combined concert in the Toiwn Hall.
“Mary’’ and “Oh, to Be in England” met with
great approbation. An entrancing offering was
“Slumber Song of the Madonna” by the Ladies’
Choir, with bird-like Irene Stancliffe as soloist. Will
Savage and David Powell gave vocal and violin
solos. Mrs. Frank Robertson wore black and was
handed a bouquet of roses; Miss Stancliffe’s frock was
of gold satin; Nita Henfrey, another young soloist,
wore turquoise, and Meg Powell was in shell pink.
Mrs. Rosenstamm and daughter Betty stepped off
the Strathnaver looking very smart after several
months’ globe-trotting about Europe, the U.S.A. and
Canada.
Well over I'OO Westralian schoolgirls are to have
a trip at Christina* under the wing at the Y.A.L,
Melbourne and Canberra are the meeting places for
travellers from all the States. A few days will be
spent in each capital and excursions will be arranged
to places of interest. The inclusive cost for each
lass is £26, and Mrs. Joyner is general chaperon.
The engagement is announced of Constance Adam-
son, of Beverley, and Oliver Charles Beckett, of
Albany.
Geraldton’s Dr. McAleer, with his wife and small
daughter, is off for a year’s study interspersed with
pleasure in the Cold Country.
There was a jingle in the money-box of Parkerville
Children’s Home after the ftte at Mrs. Ridgway s
Mount-street home. The effort is an annual fixture
and a committee of ladies devote an afternoon weekly
to sewing for its stalls. Miss Northmore declared
the f6te open while the lawns were still glistening
with dew. Sister Madeleine was present and dropped
a grateful word on behalf of the Parkerville Sisters.
Island items:
A committee of Bright Young Things ran a
Hallowe’en dance and bridge party at the Conti-
nental in aid of the Alexandra Hospital. Some of
the promoters wore tall peaked hats like witches’
headgear, and had little black cats poised on their
shoulders. Prize tickets were drawn from a witches’
cauldron in the middle of the ballroom.
A bridge evening to help Red Cross funds was
arranged at the Continental by five members of the
committee: Mrs. G. Wishart Smith, Mrs. D. C.
McLaren, Mrs. E. H. Webster, Mrs. G. Beckley and
Miss Crosby. A home-made supper was set in the
enlarged cafe upstairs.
Mrs. Geo. Kay is taking her niece, Betty Tencken,
to India with her next month in the Chitral. They
will stay in Simla with Mrs. Kay’s married daughter
and son-in-law, the Breadmores.
Dr. and Mrs. Hogg (Launceston) threw open their
pretty garden for an American tea in aid of the
Baby Health and Queen Victoria Hospital associa-
tions. The garden was a picture. There was folk-
dancing on the lawn, stalls were set under the trees
and an orchestra made attractive music.
Latrobe had its purple patch of the year with
the Show and accompanying festivities. The weather
has had a down on all the shows this year, but the
exhibits were well up to the mark.
Captain and Mrs. A. M. Stoyles are being fare-
welled at bridge parties and other cheery little
shivoos. Elliott Lewis’s lady, Mrs. R. H. Robinson,
Mrs. Tom Lyons and Mrs. Alan Miller were among
recent hostesses.
Mrs. Robt. Hall’s Play-reading Society finished up
the season with a treble bill of one-act plays in
the Masonic Hall basement, where it has come to
rest after many changes of address. The Speck,
starved of theatrical fare, is all the more critical
of plays in general, and societies of this kind serve
to keep in touch with modern drama.


MURDOCH'S
New Standard
(/Reduced Prices
R ,
V'v.
//
. t
m
Dressy “Snap Brims’’
for
/3£
(Formerly 19/6)
They’re smart—they’re service-
able—and look at the wonder
value! Pure Fur Felt Hats for
men in wanted color tones of
Light, Mid and Dark Greys,
Beaver, Fawn or Black. “Snap
Brim” shape. Grease-proof
leathers.
Men’s 8/11
Golf Shirts
45
11
Value without a peer! Stylish
Cambric Golf Shirts, with TWO
collars to match! Made from
the best serviceable quality
Cambric in the season s latest
dressy stripe designs.
s.
m
Boys’ 19/11
& 25/-Suits
4'n
Mothers! The “new standard”
brings you this wonder saving.
Boys’ “Canberra” Suits in Dark
Grey, All-wool Tweeds, and also
Brown and Mid Grey Herring-
bone patterns. Plain knee knick-
ers. Sizes 4 to 12.
Boys’ 6/11
Knickers
4fw
Boys' extra heavyweight Thorn-
proof Tweed Knickers, in Grey
or Brown mixtures. Plain knees.
Sizes 3 to 12.
♦
Youths’ D,B. Suits
Perfectly-fitting and distinctive!
And you save 10/-. Youths’
D.B. Flannel Suits, in Light Grey
or Light Fawn shade. Sizes for
Youths 14 to 18
years. Usually 35/-
MURDOCH’S PRICE
249
We Pay Freight.
Kindly Write to Desk “R.”
Murdoch's Ltd.
SYDNEY
“The World’s Largest Men’s and
Boys’ Wear Store.”
rmmm
fflrfl
md.
MtoV
NOT
NFXT
Hou DAY
sdf
247 George Street,
Sydney.
and Union Lines
59 William Street,
Melbourne.
THREE
BIG FACTORS IN THE
PROSPERITY OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
WHEAT, WOOL,
GOLD
STUDY THESE FIGURES!
WHEAT.
1931 .. 41,000,000 bushels
1933 .. 45,000,000 bushels
WOOL.
1931 .. 308,000 bales
1932 .. 210,000 hales
The number of sheep in W.A. this year is
a record, the total being 11,000,000.
GOLD.
1931.. 510,5720 z.
1933.. 600,0000 z. (est’d)
If you desire to advertise in the West,
there is ONE big factor to help YOU
to Prosperity. It is Western Australia’s
largest newspaper,
THE
Qtnusr
Nett Sales 38,000 copies weekly.
N.S.W. Office: Wingello House, Angel
Place, Sydney. 85690.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
a S* „
to
EXCURSION RETURN
FARES
FROM SYDNEY
First Saloon
£5O
Second Saloon
£42
Tourist Class
£32
(Subject to Exchange)
Nuwara Eliya, the Golfers' Paradise among the hills of
Ceylon, 6,000 feet above the sea, can be reached
after a short excursion trip by P. and O. steamer,
Golf can be enjoyed also at the intermediate ports of
Melbourne, Adelaide and Fremantle, and at Colombo,
These opportunities, with the invigorating change of
sea life, make an attractive holiday.
STRATHNAVER (Ist and Tourist) Leaves Sydney .. Dec. 2
CHITRAL (Ist and 2nd) Leaves Sydney Dec. 16
STRATHAIRD (Ist and Tourist) Leaves Sydney .... Dec. 30
NARKUNDA (Ist and 2nd) Leaves Sydney Jan. 13
and fortnightly thereafter.
AGENTS IN ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND
sdf
sdf
sd
fs


One Punch Palsy
By Montague Grover
Synopsis : Patsy Quirk, lllaicarra
miner and amateur middleweight
champion, turns professional. Stan
Carlisle, an artist friend, shows Patsy
and his trainer, Buff Cody, a drawing,
“.The Awakening of Titania.” Buff
considers it “’ot stuff” ; Patsy,
acknowledging its beauty, thinks it too
daring. He asks Phyllis Deane, an
attractive commercial artist, to come
for an outing. She declines, telling
him she is sitting for Stan’s “ Titania”
picture. Patsy is shocked, and she
pronounces him a wowser. He buys the
drawing and presents it to Stan. Des
Quirk gets five years for attempted
murder during a coal strike. Patsy
fights grimly to raise money to free
his brother. But Des is quite re-
signed, Patsy is imposed upon by an
adventuress, but by following Buff’s
advice he is rid of her. De Vernay,
the Stadium’s press agent, tries to end
Phyllis’s estrangement with Patsy;
but it is Stan *who brings them to-
gether again. On his advice Phyllis
takes some ad.-designs to Gaffney, Aus-
tralian sub-manager of the Toms Adver-
tising Agency. Buying a bundle, to her
astonished delight, he sends proofs of
them to head office in Los Angeles.
Patsy has three more easy wins over
imported men; and then Phyllis re-
ceives an invitation to join the head-
office staff of the Toms Advertising
Agency. She accepts, and crosses
the Pacific to California. Mrs. Gaff-
ney meets her, and they become great
friends. Phyllis is still with Mrs.
Gaffney when they read a cable that
Patsy has defeated the American
middleweight champion. Phyllis cables
congratulations. Patsy next turns his
attention to the heavyweight cham-
pionship of Australia, and, having won
it, accepts an offer to tour America.
He takes De Vernay and Buff with
him. On the Ventura De Vernay be-
comes engaged to Edna Kelogg. The
tourists go at once into training camp
at Rio Kido.
Chapter XXXII.
DE VERNAY mentioned to Patsy that
he had received a congratulatory wire
from Phyllis. Patsy smiled. He and
Phyllis had exchanged half a dozen tele-
grams and letters since his first radio was
sent from Hawaiian waters. Patsy had
looked forward to visiting Los Angeles be-
fore his first fight, but the Fates in the
person of the manager of Dreamland willed
otherwise. The fight—with Mike Gonsalves,
middleweight champion of California and
vanquisher of everybody along the West-
ern coast from Vancouver to San Diego—
was billed for three weeks ahead, and three
weeks were demanded by Buff Cody as
the minimum period for successful training.
Patsy picked up many a point from the
American sparring partners. Their methods
differed from those of Australian pugs. He
found the reason behind the tactics of
American pugs whom he had met and seen
in Sydney. He discovered how the prin-
ciples of efficiency are applied to the making
of pugilists as well as to the making of
motor-cars. Buff Cody, who had, since
Patsy’s winning of the Australian champion-
ship, regarded himself as omniscient as well
as omnipotent, felt crushed when he had
to sit at the feet of Slip Connor and Pedro
Walsh to leam points which were in the
kindergarten teachings of the American
ring. But Buff was no conservative; he
sifted the value of these teachings, and
when he was convinced of their sound-
ness, they became part of his own.
Patsy’s training quarters were always
filled. The tent city held two or three
hundred people on vacation, mostly young
people, who followed the sparring, boys and
girls alike, with interest and delight. He
had for variety a score of amateur boxers
ready to put on the gloves with him—
mostly university athletes enjoying a holi-
day. They made many friends. They
spent their leisure swimming in the river,
and learned to paddle the frail canoes which
were lined in scores on the bank. They
rode burros to the hilltops and danced and
rolled the bowls at night. Patsy thought
it would have been an ideal place had
Phyllis been there. De Vernay thought it
only needed the presence of Edna Kelogg
to make it Heaven.
The night before they had to return to
San Francisco for the fight, they were
gathered about the campfire listening b> the
songs and the stories, when a middle-aged
man entered the ring. He was Judge
Thomson, well known in the legal and
business circles of San Francisco, Patsy was
told. Judge Thomson delivered a little
speech, saying how pleasant had been the
associations of all with the Australian
visitors. “Of course, as a hundred per cent.
American,” he concluded, “I want to see
Gonsalves win. My motto is ‘My country
right or wrong,’ and I’d sooner see an
American criminal on top than a foreign
gentleman. But we’ve got to love Patsy
Quirk as a man—all of us—even those high-
brow dames I can see on the back benches.
And we’re sorry Patsy’s fighting an Ameri-
can, because we’d all like to be in his
corner rooting for him, and so we would if
he was up against a Frenchman or an
Englishman or a Wop. Three cheers for
Patsy Quirk!”
Patsy was taken back by the unexpected
demonstration. He thanked them as well as
he was able, and next day, when they drove
off, Judge Thomson stage-managed a send-
off with all the best-looking girls in the
village clustered on the bonnet of the car
while the press photographers got busy.
San Francisco looked different to De
Vernay this time. The people were better
looking; the shop fronts were artistic; the
climate was genial. He strolled down
Market-street and wondered what had
worked such a miraculous transformation.
These Yanks were quite decent people,
after all. He recalled with a smile what
Edna had once said: “Of course, there’s a
percentage of foreign blood in us, but it
came in very gradually and was absorbed
quickly. To all intents and purposes we’re
just British”—she had paused to note his
self-satisfaction, then added quizzically—
“with modern improvements.”
That was the way the darling little devil
always led him on. She would string him
into expecting a compliment, and then
hand one with a sting in the tail.
Of course he had not forgiven the news-
papers, and what astounded him was that
the Keloggs took it so quietly. They plainly
would have preferred that the matter ha.d
not been published, but it had been, and
no more was to be said. It seemed in-
credible. Reggie Cathcart, afterwards Lord
Cathcart, had, he remembered, so far for-
gotten his dignity as to horsewhip the pro-
prietor of a wretched little rag with no
circulation for saying what was not one-
tenth as appalling as this big daily had said
about the Keloggs. There were some things
about Americans which needed clearing
up. Even Edna had only laughed; had such
a thing happened to his sister Lettice, she
would have gone incog, to the south of
France for at least six months. There were
some phases of American character which
still left him mystified.
But the publicity accorded to De Vernay’s
love affair was regarded by Dreamland as
a gift from the gods. Patsy’s own pub-
licity was well covered by De Vernay and
the Dreamland man, but, after all, it
appealed only to the sporting crowd. Here
was something that touched the great heart
of the people—something that made every
movie addict, every reader of sob stuff,
everybody who loved a lover, want to see
in person the hero of the romance.
So it was that when De Vernay took his
seat at the ringside, he was astonished to
note the number of women in the house.
They actually preponderated in the higher-
priced section. The preliminaries over, he
discovered the reason of the feminine in-
terest. “Where’s Lord De Vernay? We
want Lord De Vernay!” yelled some human
megaphone from the bleacher seats. “We
want Lord De Vernay!” echoed a thousand
others in chorus.
“By Jove, this is preposterous,” protested
De Vernay to the Dreamland publicity man
by his side.
“Whatever it is, I guess you’d better
come across. They’ll tear the place down
if you don’t get up and let them see you.
That’s what a lot of them came for.”
The uproar grew louder and the demands
more insistent. De Vernay looked round,
rose and was greeted with tremendous
cheers. He sat down ready to join any
band of body-snatchers who would rifle the
grave of Columbus and hang the body of
the great explorer in chains.
Patsy pushed through the crowd, followed
by Buff Cody and the two sparring partners.
He was cheered on all sides. Then the
cheers rose again more loudly. Gonsalves
entered the ring. The men shook hands
and the fight ritual began. All this time Dr
loud voice was resotmding from nowhere.
It had told the storjr of the preliminaries.
The story of the demand for De Vernay
told itself, but it had conveyed to the
United States and more distant lands the
information that De Vernay had bowed his
acknowledgements. It was the loud speaker
from the microphone, sending forth its
radial information. Millions —literally
millions—were listening to its words.
Chapter XXXIII.
Among the millions who listened were
two women in Sixth-street, Los Angeles.
Phyllis and Luella had tuned in early and
had heard the reception given to De
Vernay.
“My word, he’ll hit the roof,” remarked
Phyllis. “He’s one of those frightfully
punctilious Englishmen. You know the
sort.”
“I guess I don’t like the sort,” replied
Luella.
“You’d like him. Before I knew him I
kept out of the way of meeting him just
because I thought like you do. Then I ran
across him by accident and found him a
splendid fellow. Do you know, nobody in
Sydney had the slightest idea he was such
an aristocrat. We never had the slightest
idea that he was connected with dukes and
earls until they got it in ’Frisco. He was
just one of the boys for all his punctilious
ways.”
“Well,” said Luella, “I’d like to meet
him, anyhow. I might like him, if what you
say is correct.”
A roar sounded from the loud speaker.
“Patsy Quirk, of Australia, one hundred and
fifty-six pounds; Mike Gonsalves, of Val-
lejo, middleweight champion of the Pacific
Coast, one hundred and fifty-eight pounds.”
Another pause, another roar, some mutter-
ings which were not fully audible, then a
gong.
“They’ve started!” cried Luella.
The loud speaker again. “They’re spar-
ring for an opening. Gonsalves has rushed
Quirk on the ropes. They’ve broken. Gon-
salves missed with his left. Quirk bores in.
Oh! Quirk’s landed a heavy one on the
jaw. Gonsalves is tottering. Quirk is rush-
ing to hit him again but he’s fallen.
One, two, three, four—Gonsalves seems
badly battered—he’s trying to rise—seven,
eight—he’s dropped back—nine, ten. He’s
out! Quirk the winner. The fight’s over,
folks. The lad from Kangarooland’s the
champion of the Pacific Coast. Now I
want to tell you”
But Phyllis had switched off the loud
speaker.
“He’s won! He’s won! Luella, isn’t it
grand?”
Luella smiled. “I think it’s in rather bad
taste to expect me to rejoice over the down-
fall of my countryman, even if his opponent
does happen to be one of yours and a per-
sonal friend.”
“I didn’t mean that. Excuse me, but I do
feel proud of him to-night. And to think
that I was horrified once when I found
he was a prize-fighter. How quickly we all
get demoralised when somebody we know’s
concerned in the demoralisation!”
Patsy had written to Phyllis that he
would be in Los Angeles about a week
after the fight, whichever way it went. He
had made it a week in order that his face
might be presentable. But his face was
left without a mark. He had struck only
one blow, and Gonsalves had not landed
even one. From a spectacular standpoint
it was the poorest fight San Francisco had
ever seen staged. He told De Vernay that
night that he intended to leave for Los
Angeles by the stage next morning. De
Vernay had no objections; but Buff Cody
confided, after Patsy had gone, that he
feared a romantic basis in the boxer’s inter-
est in Phyllis. “1 don’t want no honey-
moonin’ pugs on my han’s,” he explained.
“I ’ad one onst, a Danish bloke who blew
in to Sydney, an’, spare me days, it was fair
’ell.”
De Vernay laughed. “I don’t think Patsy
has any ideas that way. I saw him with
the girl in Sydney, and I’m sure he just
looks on her as a pal.”
“I seen a good many o’ these ’ere men an’
women pals before,” said Buff. “Sometimes
they gits married; sometimes they don’t.
But they all ends th’ same way, an’ that
way’s no good ter a bloke what’s trainin’
a man fur a fight.”
Buff’s lack of faith in Platonism, well-
founded by experience, was not without
reason in the case of Patsy and Phyllis,
though neither of them had the slightest
idea of it at the moment he spoke.
Patsy had not advised Phyllis of his
altered plan; he intended to give her a sur-
prise. Reaching Los Angeles in the even-
ing, he took a taxi at once to Westlake
Park and rang the bell at the door of the
apartment. Phyllis herself opened it. She
gave a gasp of wonderment. Patsy opened
his arms and she fell into them. Her arms
wound themselves around his neck, and
she gave him their third kiss. But it was
not the kiss she had given him before. Her
lips pressed on his, her arms tightened about
his neck. Patsy squeezed her to him.
“My darling, you love me?” he asked.
The dam had burst. Phyllis had reached
the goal she had longed for. “I love you,
Patsy; I love you,” she whispered.
Patsy picked her up, carried her into the
sitting-room and sat in an armchair with
Phyllis on his knees. They embraced
silently for a few minutes.
“When did you first love me, Patsy?” she
asked.
Patsy grinned again. “I suppose I’ve
always loved you without knowing it. It
was when you opened the door just now
that I realised it for the first time.”
“Same with me, Patsy,” she confessed.
“I’ve always been fond of you, but I didn’t
know I loved you till a few minutes ago.
Now I’m yours for ever.”
“For ever, and six months thereafter,”
smiled Patsy. “You’re going to marry me,
Phyl?”
“If you like.”
“if X like! What a thing to say. I
want to marry you to-night.”
“So do I.”
She snuggled down into the hollow of his
arms, her warm curves pressed against him,
their lips together.
In the next room Luella tactfully pulled
out a drawer and shut it noisily.
“What’s that?” asked Patsy.
“Luella—Mrs. Gaffney. You remember
her husband in Sydney. I told you in my
letter I was staying with her.”
The door opened. “Well, I guess that’s
about enough love-making for one night,”
Announced Luella. “Don’t move; but,
Phyllis, introduce me to boy-friend.”
“This is Patsy.”
“Glad to meet you, Mrs. Gaffney,” said
Patsy.
“I guessed it was Patsy,” replied Luella.
“But Phyllis has so many of these boys
round for petting parties that I wasn’t
quite sure.”
Phyllis turned to Patsy, caught him by
the ear and inquired, “Do you believe that?”
“ I fancy it looks likely. You seem to
show a knowledge of the subject that
could only have been obtained by steady
training.”
“Now, it’s all off. We’re strangers. I’m
going to that handsome college boy in the
drug store across the way. Luella, show
Mr. Quirk the door.”
Luella smiled on them the affectionate
motherly smile of the happily-married
woman who finds two young lovers bring-
ing back to her her own romance. She
crossed and took them both by the hands.
“I’m so glad. I always knew that Phyllis
was in love with you, and I always knew
that you were in love with her. I could
read it between the lines of the letters you
wrote, though you didn’t seem to know it
yourself. She’s a great kid, Pasty.”
“To right, she is,” assented Patsy.
“And now I’m going to kiss you both for
luck,” said Luella.
They spent the rest of the evening tell-
ing one another all about their adventures
on the trip over. Patsy gave a glowing
account of San Francisco, and Phyllis, who
had fallen to the spell of Los Angeles, be-
came as bigoted, singing the praises of the
southern city, as any member of the Boos-
ter’s Club. After supper Patsy and Phyllis
left Luella, went for a stroll in Westlake
Park, and some time after midnight parted
at the door of the apartment. Patsy stayed
that night at the Santa Barbara Hotel,
just round the corner of Alvarado-street.
Luella was waiting when Phyllis came in.
Phyllis threw herself in the armchair and
was silent for a few seconds.
“Isn’t it funny the way it gets you?” she
observed. “If you’d asked me this after-
noon if I was in love with that boy I’d
have told you in perfect honesty that I
only regarded him as a friend. And here
I am—looking on him as the greatest thing
in the world. And so he is—to me.”
Luella laughed. “I told you it would
happen. But for a beginner, I must say you
made it snappy. I didn’t want to, but I
could hear every word you said, and I
held off as long as I thought it wise. It
was a great moment for you both, you dear
kids—probably the greatest you’ll ever
know. I did love to feel that you were
in each other’s arms. I was half inclined
to slip out and stay at an hotel to-night.”
“And I don’t know if I’d been sorry if
you had.”
“Nothing doing, dear. You’ve got to
consider that boy’s prospects. He spoke
about getting married to-night. I could
have fixed that if I’d wanted. But he’s
got a lot of fights coming off, and he
doesn’t want anew wife hanging round with
him till he’s through. It’s pretty fierce, I
know, but you’ve got to be patient.”
“ I suppose you’re right,” thought Phyllis,
analysing her own emotions. “What
puzzles me is why I suddenly found myself
hugging and kissing him when I’d never
pictured such a thing before. It was just
as if I was intoxicated.”
“So you were. Men are intoxicating;
that’s what they’re for. Just as women are
intoxicating to men. Haven’t you ever felt
intoxicated before?”
“Not once. I had a lot of nice boy
friends. Sometimes I’ve kissed one, but
it wasn’t any different emotionally to kiss-
ing you.”
“My!” cried Luella. “You’ve been lucky.
I’m mighty glad I was able to hand myself
over to George first-hand, but I’ve had
terribly close calls. Most girls have. If
men only knew, we’d have a bad time.
Thank goodness, their salesmanship’s in-
efficient. They generally make the going
strong at the wrong time.”
“So I suppose I have been sexless—until
now,” mused Phydlis. “But I’m not a gradu-
ate yet; I’m something half-way—what you
call in your American universities a sopho-
more! I’ve just been intoxicated.”
“Yes,” commented Luella. “And one of
these days this great Republic of ours will
get a real honest-to-God wave of virtue,
and some super-Volstead’ll come along with
a Nineteenth Amendment abolishing men
and women, the most dangerous intoxicants
of the lot. I suppose we’ll have a Mason
and Dixon line—men on one side, women
on the other.”
“The border towns’ll have all the popu-
lation then,” suggested Phyllis.


Sickness is invariably
associated with
self-poisoning ”
—explains Dr. Von Noorden of
the famous Frankfort clinic.
To overcome self-
poisoning (autoxima)
nothing equals COLOSEPTIC
A UTOXIMA (self-£>oisoning) is a condition
/I caused by undigested food residues being
-L-*- allowed to stagnate in your body. This food
waste becomes encrusted in the creases of the intes-
tine, resulting in unsuspected constipation. Germs
and poisons breed in the accumulated waste, caus-
ing headaches, frequent colds, fits of melancholy.
Keep Clean Internally
Practically everyone suffers nowadays from autoxima,
and it is this which is the cause of one or more of
the serious faults in your health. Sickness will surely
arise if this poisonous crust on the intestine is not
removed and the body made internally active and
clean. Taken regularly, COLOSEPTIC tones and
stimulates your whole intestinal tract. It dissolves
away the stagnating waste and then passes it out of
the body—without griping or inconvenience. It
activates the kidneys, pores of the skin, and the
respiratory apparatus thus ridding the blood
stream of all circulatory poisons.
Drink Coloseptic Every Morning
Do you suffer from Constipation, Weakness, Gas in
the Stomach, Indigestion, Backache, Catarrh, Rheu-
matism, Neuritis, Eczema, Pimples, etc. ? Then
DID MORE GOOD THAN ALL MEDICINES.
“Bungalow.
“I cannot speak too highly of this wonderful medicine, for
after years of terrible suffering from constipation and piles,
one bottle of Coloseptic did me more good than all the
medicines that I had ever taken; and after taking a course of
it I am overjoyed to be able to say that I am now completely
cured.
“I am, yours faithfully,
“Mrs. M. . C ”
(The original of this testimonial can be seen at the Head Office of
the Coloseptic Co. Ltd.)
dfsdf
Poisons that spread from clogged intes-
tines lower the body’s resistance to
disease. COLOSEPTIC keeps the intes-
tines clean . . . helps ward off colds and
infections, physicians say.
drink Coloseptic every morning in hot water and
watch your health difficulties vanish. COLOSEPTIC
actually increases the secretion of the gastric and
intestinal juices.... It keeps the intestines and
digestive tube clean. . . .combats fatigue and other
symptoms of self-poisoning. Better digestion, im-
proved health, more abundant energy are yours.
COLOSEPTIC —Regular full-size jars from all
chemists. Sufficient for several weeks’ regular use.
Test COLOSEPTIC for yourself. . . .Fill in the
coupon and send it in together with postal note or
stamps for 1 /-, and receive an interesting booklet
and a Special Demonstration Jar of COLOSEPTIC.
COLOSEPTIC CO., LTD., 24 Jamieson St., Sydney.
COUPON
Coloseptic Co. Ltd.,
Dept. B. 4,
24 Jamieson St., Sydney.
I will test Coloseptic. Enclosed find if- (stamps or
postal notes). Send me one SPECIAL DEMONSTRA-
TION JAR and “AUTOXIMA” Booklet.
Name
Address
“My' and won’t the bootleggers do a
trade? ‘ Its lucky you don’t live m those
days, or some flapper’d hijack Patsy before
he’d gone two blocks.”
Chapter XXXIV.
Phyllis worked in a dream next day. She
was in a movie show with Patsy’s arms
around her, and her snuggled on his lap.
The picture was repeated and repeated
through the day, and she never tired of
watching it with her mind’s eye.
Sadie, the red-headed girl, glanced at
her from time to time. Sadie made a
guess; it is difficult to be a red-headed girl
without knowing something about the psy-
chology of men and women. But Sadie
guessed wrong. “Poor kid,” she thought,
“I must put her wise.”
“Say,” she said quietly, a few minutes
later, “you’re worried about something. If
you take my advice you’ll go and spill it
to Luella Gaffney. You live with her,
don’t you? Tell her the whole tale, kid.”
Phyllis smiled. “I’m not worried,” she
cried. “I’m happy, that’s all. Luella knows
all about it. I’m going to be married.”
A load was lifted from Sadie. “Gee,
that’s fine!” she cried, crossing and kissing
Phyllis. “Don’t think any more about
what I said.”
Phyllis told her all about Patsy and all
—how they had known one another so long
and never guessed the truth, and how sud-
denly they had found themselves in each
other’s arms. Sadie was sympathetic; she
had not yet known what real love was, but
she had found several excellent substitutes.
When lunch time came, Phyllis was a
trifle disappointed that Patsy was not
waiting to take her to the cafeteria. She
learned the reason when she reached home
that evening.
“As soon as you left this morning,” ex-
plained Luella, “I rang up boy-friend and
got him down here to put the hard word
on him. It’s up to me to look after you
two, and I stopped him seeing you at mid-
day. He’s going to take you to the theatre
to-night and I’m going with you. We’ll
have supper later, and then we’ll come
home. You can spend half an hour with
him. Then good-bye, for he’s got to get
back to ’Frisco by the first train to-morrow
morning.”
“I thought he was going to stay a week!
cried Phyllis.
“So he was; but he’s got a wire wanting
him back at once. Training for his next
fight or something.”
Luella didn’t tell Phyllis everything. She
spoke to Patsy like a mother. The longer
he stayed at Los Angeles, the more disturb-
ing it would be for both of them. His
demand that they should get married forth-
with Luella met by pointing out how a wife
would interfere with the freedom he needed.
His plea that they might spend a honey-
moon of a week and then part she met by
assuring him that such a parting would
leave him in no condition to attend to his
training and his engagements. He argued
that he would worry over Phyllis’s absence
far more if they remained single.
“Not a bit of it,” replied Luella. “I’ve
been married for eight years, and I happen
to know. You’ll get among the boys, -and,
fond as you are of the girl, you’ll be
forced into other interests. So will she.
Now, be a good boy and do what’s best
for the future of both of you.”
Patsy capitulated. He had lunch with
Luella instead of Phyllis; he agreed to
spend the evening at the theatre under the
chaperonage of his companion; he even
agreed to join her in the fiction that De
Veinay had wired demanding his immedi-
ate return.
Luella’s scheme was carried out according
to plan, and Patsy left by the early train,
Phyllis and Luella contenting themselves
with five hours’ sleep in order to get down
to the station and see him off.
He was alighting from his taxi at the
Palace when he saw De Vernay and Buff
Cody coming out.
“Thought you were going to stay at Los
Angeles a week,” said De Vernay. “We
were just on our way to wire you to meet
us there. We’ve got to get down to San
Diego. Match fixed three weeks' ahead
with Otto Schneider, champion of Texas.
We’ve fixed to start this afternoon. We’ll
make Fresno to-night—Bakersfield, if we
can. We’ll have our lunch to-morrow at
Los Angeles and get into San Diego by
dusk.”
“That’s all right,” assented Patsy. “I
don’t want to get back to Los Angeles
for a bit.”
Buff looked puzzled. “Yer haven’t ’ad
another row with Miss Deane?” he asked
suspiciously.
Patsy smiled. “No, but we’re moving
that way. We’re engaged to be married.”
“Hell!” cried Buff. It was a cry from the
heart. “What did I. tell yer?” he demanded
of De Vernay. “Oh, my Gawd! We’d
better book our passages back ter Aussie.
Why th’ ’ell does any bloke take on th’
job o’ training pugs? I arst yer. It’s a
dawg’s life, that’s what it is.”
Patsy and De Vernay looked at one an-
other. “Well,” said Patsy. “Buff’s got off
some nice congratulations. It’s your turn
now.”
De Vemay grasped Patsy by the hand.
“You’ve got the second best little girl in
the world, Patsy.”
“Thanks,” laughed Patsy. “I know you
mean it, too.”
Buff was crestfallen. “I didn’t mean no-
thin’ against Miss Deane,” he faltered.
“She’s a nice young lady—one o’ th’ best
I’ve ever knoo. I never meant”
“That’s right. I know you didn’t.”
“Yer’ve got my congratulations, Patsy,
every time.”
“Thanks, Buff. I know you mean it,
too.”
“All I was thinkin’ about was when’s it
cornin’ off?”
“Not till after my fights here.”
“Aw,” replied Buff, “that’s aw right. But
don’t let yer thinkin’ about Miss Deane
interfere with yer trainin’. That’s what’s
worryin’ me.”
“I’ll do my best,” laughed Patsy. “But
it’s a big job.”
“Too right it is,” assented Buff.
De Vernay was pondering. He hailed
a taxi. “Back later,” he cried. “Wait
here, Patsy, have you got Phyllis’s photo,
with you?”
Patsy unlocked his suitcase and handed
the precious picture to De Yernay, who
noted with delight the inscription: “To
Patsy with all my Love—Phyllis.”
“I want this for publicity, Patsy,” he
cried, jumping into the taxi and dashing
off to the office of the hated newspaper
which had held his own romance up to the
vulgar gaze of the multitude.
“Here, here!” yelled Patsy after the taxi.
But he was too late. De Vernay was already
thinking out the best means of turning
Patsy’s engagement into a lure for the
fight at San Diego.
He felt almost forgiving towards the
newspaper people when they jumped at the
chance of spreading on the story of Patsy
and Phyllis. He gave them details of
Phyllis’s life in Sydney, and let the public
believe, by implication, that, had it not
been for Patsy’s consuming love of years’
standing, America would never have seen
the famous fighter. The sob-sister whom
he had met on the boat took the dope from
him, and she seemed endowed with wonder-
ful charm and beauty and understanding,
A few weeks previously he had felt towards
her as he had never felt towards a woman
previously. Now all was changed.
“What about that third member of your
bunch from Australia?” asked the girl,
“Couldn’t we dig up something on him? It
seems a pity to waste him. Hasn’t he got
some secret love? No? That’s too bad.
Round up a soul mate for him before the
next fight—some queen of Hollywood or
one of the Follies. I’ll bump it out for
yo u.”
De Vernay smiled at the thought of Buff
Cody’s passion for some star of the studios,
and left the office happy in the knowledge
that the story of Patsy and Phyllis would
be broadcast where it would do most good.
Los Angeles was only about a hundred miles
from San Diego, and Phyllis had been long
enough in Los Angeles to be regarded as a
genuine Angeleno, wherefore a big con-
tingent from the big city might be expected
to go South to the fight.
“It’s all good publicity, boy,” he said
when he returned to Patsy.
“So was yours, but you' hit the roof over
it,” retorted Patsy.
They reached Fresno by 4 p.m. and got
into Bakersfield while it was still light.
After dinner at the El Tijon Hotel, they
went to a movie show and left for Los
Angeles next day as the clock tower in the
centre of the town showed 7 a.m. They
wound around the mountain passes through
Saugus and San Fernando to enter the out-
shirts of Los Angeles .at Glendale. Patsy’s
day at Los Angeles had made him an
authority, and he pointed out the City Hall
and ‘LrXa a ” f d r
Sh and Paf S y looked up at the windows
and down at the main entrance, hoping that
Phyllis might be there. It was too early
for lunch, so he could not suggest that they
drop into one of the neighboring cafeterias.
He resigned himself to the inevitable and
they had made San Juan Capistrano by
lunch time. They were well ahead of time
and examined the ruins of the old mission
before they resumed their journey, Patsy
collecting at the curio stall half a dozen
little relic replicas to send to his mother
in Ulawarra.
They passed through the old town, drove
up Broadway and parked at the U.S. Grant
Hotel with ample time to stroll around and
see the city before dinner. They found it
a delightful town, a miniature edition of
Los Angeles, with a residential quarter
equal to any in the world and a marvellous
park with giant gum-trees overhanging a
gorge. Next day they explored it more
thoroughly with their car, and that night
took up their quarters at the training camp
on the beach near San Ysidro.
Patsy had apparently lost no form with
his lost sleep. He sparred as speedily as
ever and hit just as hard a blow. He had
the sparring partners who had helped him
into form at Rio Nido, and he was able
to draw on a large section of the United
States Navy who were stationed at this
naval base.
He got into the ring fit and confident,
while ten thousand people from San Diego
and Los Angeles and from Tia Juane and
Agua Caliente across the border of Mexico
filled the house. Schneider opened by land-
ing Patsy a couple of swinging punches on
the cheek. Then Patsy swung, and
Schneider went down and stayed down. The
fight was a repetition of that at San Fran-
cisco. Patsy had won two fights with two
punches, whereat some epigrammatic scribe
bestowed upon him the title of One Punch
Patsy, the name that stuck to him through-
out his boxing career.
{To be continued next week.)


sdf
Ten seconds
to strop.
Ten secon ds
to clean .
The VALET
Razor Strop & Blade form
the PERFECT SHAVING
PARTNERSHIP
You know what stropping means to
a razor blade. Keener edge—longer
life—cooler, smoother shaves. Use
a Valet, which gives all the advant-
ages of stropping in a fraction of time
without removing the blade. Simple,
time-saving, efficient —That’s Valet!
1®
v*
British Made —Of all dealers.
Sets from 5/' to 65/-
“VALET”
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australia :—
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Mr Can't
/
If
& »
r <' v - *
r
I
Mr Can’t has heard the clock
strike one. Mr Can’t has
heard the clock strike two.
Mr Can’t has counted a
whole prairie -full of sheep.
But still Mr Can’t can’t sleep,
and can’t think why he can’t.
He doesn’t know, you see,
that clogged and stagnant
foodways fill the blood with
poisons and make the whole
nervous system irritable and
restless. What a shame some-
one doesn’t tell him!
Mr Can
A
It / l
Sshh! This is Mr Can’s room.
And can he sleep ? Of course
he can ! Like a top ! Mr Can,
you’ll remember, is most par-
ticular about keeping himself
clean inside. Every morning
as regularly as the sun rises
Mr Can takes his Eno. Every
night his system is clean and
comfortable and so never
keeps his brain awake with
signals of distress. What
about you tonight l
Sleeplessness, headaches, indigestion and a score of
other ills are the penalties you pay for omitting the
vital inner cleansing which Eno gives you ♦ Take Eno
every morning ♦ Even as you drink it, you feel it cleans -
ing and purifying—relieving that heaviness with which
you so often start the day. Instead of Mr Can’t —he
a Mr Can l
Au-lS*
Enos Fruit Salt’
cfShe words €>no and "Uruit Salt ” are registered trade marks.
Sales Agents: c (sbe fKarold ‘tf. Siitchie Go. 3£td., Sydney, £N.S. c l&-
The Key in the Pocket.
BY HUGH McCRAE.
MILLICENT was a pale-complexioned
girl, with white lips and beautiful
■ eyes, set far apart. She did lots of
work for very little money, and slept in a
sort of cupboard-place off the back-passage.
Over the entrance to this cupboard-place
depended a number of bells, symbolical of
the slave: bells whose summons she answered
if only a beggar-man rang—for she was
servant even to the vagabonds in the street.
Sometimes, the children of the house would
hit -vyitli a stick all the bells at once, so
that they somersaulted on their springs and
created a boisterous peal; but on these occa-
sions Millicent would laugh.
Perhaps she was the last person in the
world to wear a crinoline—an article I
remember well, on account of the noise it
made: a rippling effect, as if she arrived in
a boat. On her nights out I stopped awake
to hear’her return. The gate would shut
crisply; her feet, staccato on the asphalt,
changed to dull clumping as she reached the
verandah-boards to push the door open. The
door being closed and bolted again, I heard
the match spurt while she lighted the lamp,
whose beam blossomed brownish-yellow
across our nursery ceiling.... and presently
began to travel, her petticoat-lioop at the
same time coming ratta-tatta-tatta through
the dark and eerie hall. Then, when she
had locked herself in her room, there would
be the swish of it dropping off on to the
carpet, followed by several rustles as it
gravitated within a box behind her bed.
Then I thought of Millicent’s exquisite
face, and soon dreamt I was her little hus-
band, seated on a high chair, while she
stood up beside ‘me warming her hands by
the fire.
Often Millicent went on voyages “round
the village,” and if she paid the grocer she
brought home to my sister and myself sticks
of barley-sugar—Mr. Alsop’s largesse, when
he wrote receipts for bills. This grocer
used regularly to go to Bennet Farm races
with his neighbor the publican. Both of
them dressed smartly, both smoked cigars
and both had good eyes to ogle with. But
particularly Mr. Alsop was attractive, mak-
ing the sound of half-crowns whichever
way he went; so it was no wonder our
maid acknowledged him a hero, even if it
were only while he pulled string through
a string-holder or cut up blocks of soap.
Mr. Alsop had an invalid wife, who liked
to sit on sunny mornings in a garden
adjacent to the shop, where she could gaze
at the sign of the Merry Fellows’ Arms, as
well as at everybody passing down the
street. There were also two Miss Alsops,
chiefly noticeable on account of the length
of their hair.
One evening, after a visit from the clergy-
man of the parish, my mother sent for Milli-
cent and spoke to her severely for having
gone to the back of the grocery counter in
order to help herself to something the grocer
couldn’t find. W-lien Millicent walked up the
ladder her petticoat-hoop poked out, so that
her pantalettes came into view ; and it was
at this moment, when Mr. Alsop was lost
in admiration, that the informer saw them
and hurried along. Canon Hardbake said
he had made the discovery by accident, his
mission being solely connected with the
exchange of ginger-beer bottles —a dozen
empty for half a dozen full. Millicent cried;
and my mother stayed with her in the scul-
lery, helping to polish the knives.
I felt sorry for Millicent, because her life
was so hard. She made beds and emptied
slops; she beat carpets, scrubbed floors, pre-
pared meals and washed-up afterwards; she
dragged wood out of the depths of the cellar,
and at the same time kept herself clean to
answer the door. She was the slave of the
kitchen, of the nursery, of the dining-room,
and even of the wash-house that stood in
the yard. The terrible yard, with its gate
like the gate of a prison, its three fowls,
its rubbish-heap, its tank, its toolshcd and
contaminated “necessary.” Such a squeam-
ish piece of soil that sparrows hesitated to
fly across. Weighed down by these sur-
roundings, was it any wonder Millicent saw
Mr. Alsop transfigured into the Grand
Mogul, or that she imagined his shop a
palace, all eighteen-carat gold, stuck over
with topazes and diamonds?
Presently Mr. Alsop sent his wife and
daughters into the country. It was during
this time that Millicent often disappeared
out of her room for whole nights together;
but only myself knew about it, and I
wouldn’t tell. There was a bench under her
window, and on top of the bench a box
that had once been used for a rabbit-hutch,
now abandoned. This combination of bench
and box composed Millicent’s means of exit
or entry.
So soon as the grocer’s wife returned, our
maid stopped at home; but the holiday trips
becoming a custom, she once more began her
illicit excursions. Thus it continued for
the space of a year; and, although I was
accessory after the fact, no words relative
to this matter passed between us.
Then on my birthday morning, September
the fourteenth, something happened. Milli-
cent had just given me a lettered pin featur-
ing my name to wear in my necktie; and
my mother, who stood behind her, was show-
ing some disapproval, when the front-door
bell rang—hardly a ring at all; so feebly
that I thought a mouse must have trod on
the wire. My father, happening to be near
the door, opened it, and for a moment there
was silence; then, while he called for my
mother, he let two people into the house.
My mother had no sooner joined the visitors
than she, in her turn, called for Millicent.
Millicent immediately obeyed the summons;
and I never saw her again. But I heard
her, accompanied by someone, go for a little
while into her room, and afterwards return
up the passage.
My mother cried a bit. The door clicked.
A cab rumbled. Then a queer stillness
settled upon the house.
At the foot of the stairs our father was
saying: “My dear, that girl is as innocent
as I am.”
* * * #
Years later I read in a newspaper, saved
from the period, an explanation of the mys-
tery given by Millicent Squires during her
trial at Quarter Sessions, November 16,
IS :
I told Alsop about the child I was going to have,
and asked for assistance. He had already admitted
responsibility, although he never offered "to help in
any way. At first he appeared to be kind ; but, as
time went past, his manner changed towards me, so
that he even went so far as to order me out of his
shop.... Three days after he had ordered me out
of the shop we accidentally met in the park, when
he scolded me for crying. He said his wife and
his daughters had gone to Kurramburra South.
Would I come to the shop with him and stay the
night ? I mentioned how hard it was for me to
get away without my mistress knowing, especially
now that the boy Prank seemed to have his sus-
picions ; but Alsop over-persuaded me, and I
went”....
Millicent (she went on to explain) was met
at the shop-door by Alsop, who led her,
through the dark, into the house beyond,
where he kept a light burning in the kitchen.
He kissed her, and made her sit down on a
.settee —but he was so drunk she would have
nothing to do with him. He tried to make
her drink too. It was a cold night, and a
couple of whisky-bottles were on the table:
one with just the dregs remaining in it, the
other half-full. Because she refused to drink
he beat her terribly; and then, when she
tried to run' away, he locked the door. About
a month previously he had done the same
thing, and she had stolen the key and
avoided him; so she knew he must have
procured another key. On this evening she
had the first key in her pocket. Possession
of this key set her mind to work.
The last drop of whisky had been swal-
lowed up. Alsop lay motionless across the
floor, his head close against the gas oven.
Millicent touched his cheek with her finger—
touched it lightly at first, then pressed it
hard. She tried slapping it, and found she
might have slapped the stove or the settee
or any of the chairs. Without much effort
she was able to twist his head so that it
fell completely inside the oven; then she
took the tablecloth and stuffed it round the
head so as to prevent the tiniest trickle of
air. (The solitary window she had already
fixed up with paper wads.)
The next thing Millicent did was to' draw
the key out of the door and place it deep
down in one of Alsop’s trouser pockets; the
next, t 0 turn on the gas. She heard the
pleased purr of an invisible tiger, let her-
self out of the room, locked the door on
the outside with her own key, and ran away
into the darkness. Customers going to the
shop in the morning would wonder what had
become of the grocer. They would find the
kitchen door fastened too tightly to open :
they would break it down; they would find
him dead from suffocation. They would
think it was a case of suicide. The key
in the pocket would be evidence enotfgh
for that.
A clever arrangement—quite indefectible,
except at one point. Millicent had for-
gotten to remove from the outside lock of
the door her duplicate key. The key with
ribbon on it!
❖ ❖ ❖
Reading this narrative at a time when I
had grown to be a man, I remembered the
incident of Millicent’s departure—how, still
in the character of “a little husband,” I had
gazed, forlornly, round the room. The sun,
though obscured by a cloud, was strong
enough to show upon the floor the hoop of
a crinoline—the major circle, and the dim-
.inislung sister ones, like ripples on a pool—
covering the spot where Millicent had been.
Peace Seeking.
Now that radiant Spring’s returning
Costumed in a golden gown,
In my blood there is a yearning
To be up and out of town.
Come and we will go a-roving
Down a valley that I know,
Where for ever, pausing never,
Glides a river
Singing low.
Set aloof from haste and hustle
And a worn world ill at ease,
There we’ll listen to the rustle
All day through of leafy trees.
Softly cushioned on green grasses,
Birds and birds we’ll see and hear
Brightly winging, lightly singing,
Joyance flinging
Far and near.
reace we’ll find there, peace of spirit,
Flowing from the kindly earth,
Proving false that men inherit
Trouble only at their birth.
Gain we’ll gather in that valley,
Gain beyond all worldly gain—
Caring never, like its river,
For endeavor
Fruitless, vain.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


THE BERNARD
CRONIN STORY
WRITING COURSE
10 LESSONS.
Mr. Bernard Cronin, whose latest novel
“Bracken,” before being published by Jar-
rolds, Ltd., London, ran through Ihe
Bulletin as a serial, is conducting a
Story Writing Course and is doing it, as
is his habit, efficiently and thoroughly.
Mr. Cronin’s course is, indeed, a master-
piece of expert practicality. The components
of a story— theme, plot, openings, dialogue,
characterisation and description —the very
names of which excite the imagination, and
the awe, of literary aspirants, are considered
in detail with a wealth of illustration and
practical advice that at once removes many
of the more serious obstacles from the pat u
of the beginner.
The instruction is given- in .tell, lessons
and three supplements. Mr. Cronins own
enthusiasm is so great, his sympathy so
large and his handling of the practice woi k
sent in so competent and confident that the
interest of his pupils never flags, and they
very soon make a good job of every piece
of work they send in. They are helped the
more inasmuch as? they are never kept wait-
ing for their revised work.
During the advanced lessons the pupil is
sometimes asked to return to an earlier
story, and in the light of his—sometimes
her—added experience and increased know-
ledge improve it to publication standard.
Mr. Cronin is most insistent, however, on his
pupils submitting to editors none but good
work.
The principle is effective. Mr. Cronin s
pupils get acceptances before they have
finshed the Course. On September 9, 1932,
one pupil wrote :
“I have already received about £3O for
stories and articles. As writing, is a pro-
fession with all the initial difficulties and
setbacks of most professions, together with
a few of its own, and 1 regard myself as
still serving my articles, I do not feel that
I have anything to grumble about. I have
to work at night, often after a long and
tiring day, which is a big drawback. Still,
£3O is a profit of just 200 per cent, over
your very moderate fee for the Course.
“I doubt if I should have sold a line if
it had not been for the splendid training
Mr. Bernard Cronin gave me. I had been
rejected so many times that I was on the
point of giving up, and ■would probably
have done so had I not obtained your
prospectus and decided to take the Course.
“Apart from Mr. Cronin’s exceptional
experience and thorough understanding of
the art of story-writing, I think the best
features of the Course are his candid criti-
cism and extraordinary patience. /The
beginner needs both in large quantities,
and Mr. Cronin certainly supplies them.
I am very grateful to him for the kindly,
patient way he led me along the literary
track —and also for the hard knocks he
gave me when I deserved them.”
In criticising the original work of pupils
Mr. Cronin takes first things first, dealing
with the real essence of the story and
showing its inherent worth as an idea to be
developed. Itemised criticisms follow’, illus-
trated by the remodelling of parts. Frank-
ness and honesty of purpose are the
substance of each criticism. , Mr. Cronin's
object is to save each pupil much of the
time and effort and many of the discourage-
ments which try the strength of every writer
who has to fin'd his own way amongst the
pitfalls in the path that leads to publication.
In addition to teaching story-writing, Mr.
Cronin criticises the MSS. of writers who
have had only a limited success. This
critical service has proved of great value
to many wdiose work, through minor faults
of construction or presentation, has just
failed to get publication.
Mr. Cronin’s Story Writing Course is fully
described in an illustrated pamphlet,
“Writing to Win.” Copies will be sent post
free to any reader of The Bulletin who
would like one. Those specially interested
in the criticism of MSS. are requested to
mention the fact.
The services Mr. Cronin offers to writers
should be known to everyone interested in
writing for publication. Letters can be
addressed to Mr. Bernard Cronin, 398
Finders Lane, Melbourne.
The Key to a Man’s Career
•r
Dr. Norwood says tHat “a proper grasp of
Pelmanism would save any life from futility.**
DR. F. W. NORWOOD, D.D ,
the well-known minister of
the City Temple, London,
is an ardent admirer of Pelman-
ism.
He, like Sir Herbert Austin,
who also speaks highly of Pel-
manism, is one of the noted
Australians who have achieved
distinction in the Old World.
“Pelmanism,” Dr. Norwood
says, “is sound Psychology and
an admirable system of Mind-
training. It is more than
Dr. F, W. NORWOOD
D D.
mere Memory-training. There is no co-ordination of
knowledge without a retentive memory, but the mind is
more than memory. It involves the whole man.
“Pelmanism reduces to a coherent system what every
person who lives intelligently and strongly must at least
partly carve out for himself. A proper grasp of it
would save any life from futility, and would cause many
to discover powers latent within themselves of the exist-
ence of which they had not dreamed. It teaches that
man has the key to his own career, and enables many to
find the key itself which, for want of self-knowledge,
had lain undiscovered.”
If you wish to live “intelligently and strongly,” to
impress your personality on others, to advance surely
and firmly along the path to responsibility and authority,
you must develop certain qualities and attributes inherent
in every ambitious man:—
Concentration
Judgment
Decision
Will-power
Initiative
Self-confidence
Presence of Mind
Organising Power
Courage
Cheerfulness
and a Reliable Memory.
The development of these strong, positive, vital
qualities contributes to one’s earning capacity, makes
for security and leads to a full and happy life.
There are Pelmanists in every walk of life. Because
it is fundamental, Pelmanism helps them all:
AN ACCOUNTANT states that Pelmanism has shown him
“how to overcome that paralysing feeling of inferiority.”
A SHOP-ASSISTANT reports that he has secured a better
position and attributes ibis to Pelmanism.
A FARM-WORKER writes: “Thanks to Pelmanism, I am
feeling more confident and more alive.”
A MANAGER reports an increase in self-confidence, “which
has brought me the respect of my colleagues.”
AN ENGINEER writes: “I feel especially an increase in Self-
Confidence, which gives professional status.”
A CLERK writes that he has improved in memory, concentra-
tion and will-power, and that his mind is quicker and
more alert.
A DOCTOR writes that he has improved his powers of Obser-
vation, Concentration and Memory, and has increased his
Self-Confidence.
AN INSURANCE CLERK writes: “Financially I am over 30
per cent, better off than before; mentally and physically
I am hundreds per cent, better off,”
A WOMAN CLERK writes: “I can concentrate for quite a long
period without my mind wandering. I observe things
far more quickly, and have ever so much more confidence
in myself and my abilities. My thoughts are far more
orderly.”
A TEACHER writes:, “This Course has had a remarkable
effect on mv phvsical and mental health. What pleases
me most is'the certainty that I have lost my fear. My
self-confidence has returned, and my w’hole outlook on life
seems to be reconstructed,”
A CLERGYMAN writes: “I have experienced much benefit and
wash I had undertaken the Course earlier in life. Had I
known at the age of 30 certain things which I know now
—largely through the Pelman lessons —I think I could have
avoided'one or two painful, nervous breakdowns.... To
summarise (and employ a fashionable word), I think I
have gained a better orientation towards life.”
A BANK CLERK w T rites: “This Course has enabled me to see
clearly what I want in life and how to get it. It has
taken'me out of the rut. It has shown me that, whatever
the circumstances may be, life holds infinite possibilities of
enjoyment and improvement.”
Thousands of similar letters could be printed did
space permit.
You will be interested in the wealth of positive and
helpful information in the 76 illustrated pages of The
Efficient Mind,” a copy of which will be posted free to
you on request.
Pelmanism is quite easy and simple to follow. It
takes up only a short time daily. The books are printed
in a handy "pocket size,” so that you can study them
when travelling, or in odd moments during the day.
Even the busiest man or woman can spare a few minutes
daily for Pelmanism and benefit from it.
Post the form below to-day to the Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and
by return you will receive a free copy of “The Efficient
Mind.” Call or write for this free book to-day.
“THE EFFICIENT MIND.”
The Pelman Course of Training is fully described in “The Efficient Mind,” which contains 76 pages of matter and
illustrations of very great interest, Copies are posted free. Call or ivrite for one. Inquiries are regarded as confidential
communications. The Pelman Institute has no outdoor representatives.
THE. PELMAN INSTITUTE
for the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and Personality
3 GLOUCESTER HOUSE, corner of Market Street and Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
CUT OUT AND POST TO-DAY.
To the Secretary, THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
Please send your free book, “The Efficient Mind.” In asking for it I incur no obligation.
Name
Postal Address
320.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
T-
<•
o°
SO® tfO'
■4 ”
•v,
?* vV V


IplnffllJAllillll
n
II
1
Fi: ■ .
"Z Z*
§ZZZ %Z? g W' ’ >S® : i| ii
niln.il
v
o
€0
; TtT. i
i::!:f>TV.'!ii:ii
m
m
=====
Ii:.
m
-
■■
m
i
m
if
S'
CTTTV
m
9*
3
c?i\ ■
H
sn-n
[li£!t
I I
M iii'ii*'* iiMiniuMiiiimmiiirrimiiui
i M I i 11 1 1 ij-i i m 11 1 1 11 i u. in imi m? f rtf<
l/ll!||!l('illll|l||llli|ii|lWt|il)in:ii,: l ]i)iii'v; l
if#
I
Of
m
I*
IS
feii.ii.irt
$
Wirt
2D
faM
rn
famroiTi
m
fcm !
>u
I
■■■;• ■ j L iS> «
1! 0
IP
z
mi
,'s>
■
iii
'/Wpi
m
m
ii
Uolwt
!::::
(iff
X Ini
o* X X -X X
. .si X
i; r::
JJu
m
yi
uHiimmmmmii
lit
c: r: 3
inn
in
TRADITION
is the story handed
down from father to
son, from one genera-
tion to another, of
fine and worthy
things of which they
are justly proud.
The qtiality of Gilbey s
Gin since 1857 is tradi-
tional\ and no effort has
been spared to maintain
ike high standard of per-
fection which has made
* it famous .
