

me
urV.
WINE
bt m
Wl
§
The Bulletin
— (Z^l/^6eJ<SA^y^^/XbAKiLy.
Vol. 53.—N0. 2740.
Wednesday, August 17, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


r pi;E 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post, free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
dance Journalism
Clinicqt HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON !
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ' ’
Please send, without obligation. your New Free
booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Buu.ktin. ‘
My Kame ~
V e Address
S.B. 132 ..
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importin']
bookseller.
ANIMAL STORIES
FROM
RUDVARD KIPLING
A magnificent crown 4to.
volume of 216 pp. contain-
ing stories selected by the
author himself with 8 illus-
trations in color and 76 in
line by STUART TRESILIAN
6/- net. Leather, 12/6 net.
[Ready Sept. 1.
Economic Tracts for the Times
By C. D. H. COLE, 12s. 6d. net.
An attempt to formulate a Social-
ist Economic Policy in constructive
terms.
Finance and Politics:
A sequel to ‘Behind the Scenes
of International Finance”
By DR. PAUL EINZIG, 7s, 6d. net.
“Dr. Einzig’s work is undoubtedly of value
in bringing together facts which otherwise
might escape the notice of the compilers of the
final history of the period.”— The /'Economist.”
Voices from the Dust
By JEFFERY FARNOL, Illus-
trated. [Dominions Edition.
“This is romance at its best in which Mr.
Parnol is the generally acknowledged master.’’
—“Saturday Review.”
Thank Heaven Fasting
By E. M. DELAFIELD.
[Eunpire Library.
“Miss Delafield has never written a stronger
or more absorbing, story.”— “Week-end Review:*’
To bo Obtained from ail
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
Quick Relief f
é
ê
[DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Hep.: H. 0. HFNOHCI.TFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,’-' 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander - ’ Reading-room at the offices.
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, l!td.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
1113 05 Collins Street, Melbourne;
“THE AGE”
Established 1854•
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
p von nesrlect to use “The Age" for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in vour \ ictorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
au.emae ai.u sen an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 119,000 daily subscribers who hale
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a. newspaper that not'only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
GOLD
Recent events on the goldfields in
Western Australia have caused great
interest throughout Australia. Recently
W.A. gold-mining shares were the only
bright spot on the London Exchange.
Intensified development in Western
Australia is helping the State to pros-
perity.
Here is. a market for your business
and a newspaper without equal for
results to advertisers.
THE PERTH
iwlnf
The largest newspaper' in the West—
it carries more news and advertise-
ments per issue than any other paper
in W.A.
Gross Circulation Exceeds 46,000
Copies Weekly
S iecia/ Announcement
to N ationa! Advertisers
Che mercury
Tasmania's National Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
i his certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
1 9 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable .Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SY-DXK'i OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House. 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
'Rhone: 8W5179
MEIJIOIUNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building.
Elizabeth Street.
If You Want Queensland Trade,
You Must Advertise in
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
This graft Queensland daily, and its
companion journal, the “Sunday
Mail,’’ give a second-to-none
“cover” in the metropolitan area and
in country districts. Their popu-
larity is explained by their brightness
and the all-round excellence of their
news features. The strong circulation
position of both papers is revealed by
recently issued , independently verified
audited certificates. Rate cards, etc.,
from
Robert Jackson,
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(’Phone: 81522.1
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Guide-books
The best kind of guide-book is often an
imaginative work about a place as it
appeared in the past. “Royal Flush,” which
was reviewed recently on this page, brings
Versailles to life more effectively than any
of the official compilations which visitors to
Paris buy in the Avenue de J’Opera. This
is because the town afod chateau are chiefly
significant for the lunacies that went on in
them centuries ago. The same with many
places of historical interest in England.
Particularly cities. The motorist arrives in
Bath, for example, by way of a concrete
speedway and a forest of red brick villas,
and finds the heart of the city full of
modernised hotels, with one overlooking the
river which wouldn’t be out of place in
Monte Carlo. He can’t see the eighteenth-
century wood for the twentieth-century
trees. New World guide-books are also
unsatisfactory. Strangers don’t want to
hear about local industries as a rule. They
want* to learn something about the in-
habitants; and writers of guide-books lack
the objective point of view. Here are two
works, one of which deals with Bath, and
the other with America and the Pacific.
Tourists will find them immensely interest-
ing and valuable; yet the first is a recon-
struction of Bath as it was in its heyday,
•and the second is a novel.
The Gambler l ) r ho Played King
Beau Nash, whose story is, told in Edith
Sitwell’s Bath (Faber, 155.), first appeared
in the ancient western city in 1702 at the
age of 28, He was a professional card-
player at a time when England was mad
on all forms of gambling, and lie had arrived
on business. His history is virtually a
history of the rise and fall of Bath as a
fashionable centre. It was to be superseded
" after his death by Brighton ; never to risq
again above the status of Tunbridge Wells
or Harrogate. How lie accomplished his
reforms is a mystery which even Miss Sit-
well doesn’t elucidate, He had no money
or influence when he first appeared in the
train of Queen Anne on the look-out for
young men who knew less about games of
chance than he did; ver, soon the magis-
trates of the city began to “take every
opportunity of paying the same respect to
his fictitious royalty that is generally paid
to or claimed by real power.” Goldsmith
sums up his mental equipment in a pungent
phrase:—
He understood rank and procedure with
the utmost exactness ; was fond of show and
finery himself, and generally set a pattern
of it to others. 'These were his private
talents, and he was the favorite of such as
had no other.
That accounts for his appointment, as
Master of the Ceremonies, and for his
success as an organiser of amusements, but
what may be called his municipal work
called for other qualities. In a very short
time he had stopped profiteering among
owners of lodgings, lighted the streets, put
a stop to duelling and the ’ wearing of
swords, and made important: sanitary im-
provements.
It was useless for the harpies and the
birds of prey to weep and groan : his word
was law, and that flaw was carried out.
Where did the money come from? The
answer is public subscriptions. He drove
beggars off the streets at an early stage
of his ■ career, but remained an unabashed
beggar himself to the end. He collected
much of the cash in his famous white hat.
walking from table to table in the gaming-
rooms for the purpose. In this way he
raised funds for the charities in which he
was interested, and for public buildings. In
our ago ho would have made an ideal Lord
Mayor. Miss Sitwell revives the atmo-
sphere in which this strange being "and Iris
subjects, who were the 'most celebrated
people in contemporary England, moved.
She shows the .stingy Duchess of Marl-
borough wrangling over her subscriptions
to the Mineral Water Hospital; Dr. John-
son laying down Ihc law in Mrs. ThraleV
drawing-room; Gainsborough at work (he
painted many portraits and some land-
scapes in Bath); Pope, Garrick, Goldsmith
and dozens more behaving as one would ex-
pect them to behave. Into the midst of this
world of frivolity storms Lady Huntingdon
(one of the many illustrations is a repro-
duction of her portrait by John Russell),
with her protege Wesley, bent on conver-
sion. The chapter on The Religious Revival
in Bath is done wifti the same light touch
as the others; and all through the book
are passages which
have the delicate
glamor of a Her-
rick poem. , A fas-
cinating study,
and the format of
the book is as
exquisite as the writing.
A Briton Abroad
J. B. Priestley, author of Faraway (Heine-
rnanh, 10s. 6d.V, belongs to an entirely
different school. He is a middle-class
Englishman in the Dickens tradition with
plenty of prejudices—Miss Sitwell seems
literally to have none at all—and a sturdy
'conviction that his country is the only one
fit for a sensible person to live in. His
hero, William, learns from a seafaring
uncle of a Pacific island with deposits of
pitchblende (from which radium is won);
goes there by way of San Francisco; falls
in love with an American girl, who prefers
Hollywood to marriage with him; fails to
secure the island; and marries ' an English
widow who has a boarding-house in Tahiti.
As in all Mr. Priestley's books there is
plenty of comedy which depends for a
good deal of its effect on dialect, and the
characterisation is sound. William is par-
ticularly well observed; a suburban Eng-
lishman of 40 who can't understand it when
the light o’ love whom he had meant to
do the right thing by refuses smilingly to
do the right thing by him. The account of
his adventures is better as a travel book
than as a story.. The chronicler sees every-
thing—the Gargantua which takes William
to New York, the journey across the conti-
nent, San Francisco, which “sat' there by
the water like some grandly heroic tenor,
some golden-haired Walther Or Siegfried,
about to burst into song”—with the naif
eyes of a pioneer. The passengers on the
Marukai are all new to him, and their
portraits are etched with corresponding
gusto. He laughs at the Americans, tole-
rates the humble Maorilanders, dislikes the
Austrylians, as he calls them, and manages
to show before he has finished just, how
the different sections appear, to an English-
man of William’s type. He sees the tropics
through the eyes of a homesick London
suburbanite, too. ■
“Those little wild flowers we have at
home” (the widow is speaking). “A hand-
ful of them’s worth all this richly tropical
stuff put together. And then the green,
green fields—not like the green here, but all
fresh and sweet —-with the daisies and dande-
lions and buttercups in them !”
“And the soft skies,” cried William. “The
soft skies, with the delicate lovely grada-
tions. And the . haze over the fields and the
hills on early-sumrner mornings. And the
queer golden glow iii autumn.”
“Yes, and the long long twilights, not like
these quick, stupid tilings, light one minute
and dark the next.”
And so the rapturous litany proceeds to its
culmination—a heart-cry from the lady for
"a walk up the Woodbridge-road on a cold. I
wet Saturday afternoon” and “a nice bright
fire and tea and buttered toast.” William
is so moved that, forgetful of the physically
alluring but spiritually worthless American,
he- takes her in his arms.
He knew instinctively that this was a
woman who would, if it was necessary, wait
for a man she loved, not simply a month or
tft o, but half a lifetime. All the film com-
panies, or any other companies, could descend
on the island, and if could be overrun with
young men like demigods adoring her, and
yet those steady grey eyes would still be
fixed on his image and she would wait.
I hat the demigods would bfi unlikely to
tempt her isn’t stressed, for the author—a
Yictorian sentimentalist—hates cynicism as
much as lie does his foreign villain Gar-
suvin. The .story hangs fire a little in the
early stages, but after the first 100 pages
(and there are over 500 all told) there is
hardly a dull line in it.
RED PAGE.
This Flaming Youth Business
The latest book by that brilliant English-
man V\ yndham Lewis supports with facts
and figures a recently-cabled statement by
the headmaster of Lancing that an undue
proportion of English lads are luxury-
loving, vain and, generally, futile. This
is The Doom of Youth (Chatto and Win-
dus; 10s. 6d.). The gist of if is that the
English are going through an age-war--a
more serious affair for the ultimate losers
iliau the sex-war—-and that the hard-headed
non-combatants are turning it to their own
advantage, as usual.
Never, he says, has England had so many
voting people living in beautiful idleness on
their elders. There have always been
gigolos (the Courts of Catherine of Russia,
and Elizabeth of England teemed with
them), but they have only been supported
til! recently by exceptional females—queens
of nations, finance, song or the drama. Now
thousands of undistinguished old ladies
allow themselves the luxury. Nothing is
(Red Page continued on page b.)


RUTH IN ADVERTISING”—The Foundation of Confidence. ‘THE SENIOR STORE”
Anthony Horderns'
HALF YEARLY
GENUINE
ENDS SATURDAY, 20th AUGUST
Good Clothes are an Asset to any Man
and at these Prices an Investment
The Weather
still demands
An Overcoat
'Y'T
O' I' {
X A
A
m
m
mu
mm
m
m
WZM
m
II
ifl
m.
m
Wm\
m
m
HI
Bug a Raglan
REDUCED
79/6 Tweed Style
A bargain in Men’s
English-made Tweed
Overcoats. Made in
59/6
the popular Ilaglan
style. Available in either Fawn
or Grey tonings. Price .. 79/0
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Price 59/6
65/- Gab. Raincoat
Splendid value is de-
picted in these service-
able qualify Gabardine
Raincoats for men.
55/-
Smart Raglan style, lined
throughout. In Navy and Fawn.
Price 65/-
Antliony Horderns’ Sale
Price 557-
Others in Fawn only. Price. 1057-
Sale Price 75/-
27/6 Oil co at at
Be prepared for a rainy
day ! Every man should
possess one of these
Oilcoats they are
25/-
guaranteed waterproof.. .and the
Sale Price is an inducement to
buy now. Lengths 48 to 58
inches. Price 27/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Price 25/-
Riding Style 35/-
Sale Price 32/6
You have only 3i days to buy this
£911916 Sac Suit for
105 7 -
Hand-tailored in West of England Flannel
Men’s English Made Sac Suits, tailored in the season's smartest style—with-
out being unduly conspicuous. West of England Flannel is the material used
and they are serviceably lined with Alpaca. Thrifty men should take
advantage of this unusual opportunity now. Price £9/19/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 105/-
Genuine Hide
Overcoats
Warm,
Serviceable,
Popular
SALE SPECIAL:
8#
For all weathers and all occasions
there is nothing to equal a Leather
Overcoat. This is a special coat
made from Real Hide and smartly
tailored in double-breasted Raglan
style. All-round belt finishes.
Sale Special 84/-
Smart 2-Piece
Sports Suits
Greys,
Fawns,
Browns
SALE SPECIAL:
25/-
Men’s Two-piece Sports Suits. In
Flannel or All-wool Tweed. Fault-
lessly made and one can be sure
of a perfect fitting. Twenty-four
designs. Shades are Grey, Fawn and
Brown. Early ordering is definitely
advised. Sale Special 25/-
Tigertwist” Trousers for Rough Work
Men’s "Tigertwist” Trousers the ideal trousers for hard work.
Made to our usual high standard of excellence. In Grey, Fawn
and ORve. Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 14/6
14/6
&
.A
1* “ i
m
W
m
m
m I
Hi
m
Special Tailoring Offer!
105/- Quality Suits to Order
T Weeds ,
Flannels
76/6
English
W orsteds
Only three and a half more days left in which to save 28/6 on a
made-to-measure suit. The materials for selection include English
Flannels, Australian Tweeds, Worsteds, etc. Tailored in our own
workrooms. Every suit carries our well-known guarantee.
Price, 105/-. Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price . 76/6
PATTERNS ON REQUEST.
( Tailoring—Ground Floor, George Street.)
-v : •
( Men’s Wear — Ground Floor, George Street—We Pay Carriage.)
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C. G.P.O.


m
'm
t
m
i
■4;
rt« Hlli
%k
£
/////.
mill
m
a
u
‘j,
ns=2
'<sj
m
m
\\
m
m
m
k\V
Castor and Pollux bringing to Rome news of their victory in the Battle of Lake Regdlus. After the famous painting by Malania
in the possession of the Distillers of White Horse Whisky.
When the
white horses of victory
brought rejoicing to Rome
Flower-showered ... triumphant
.. the victorious Roman Generals
returned from the wars. And—
at the sight of the snow white
horses of victory, all Rome re-
joiced. Then as now, the white
horse brought in its train,
celebration and good cheer.
Take home a bottle of White
Horse or one of* the three
sizes of handy flasks to-day.
You’ll find that a nightly
nobbier of White Horse puts
the cares of the day behind
and sets the seal on your
evening’s content.
White Horse
r * CfATfU w
n
-CL_)
IR
L
SCOTCH WHISKY
Guaranteed Pure Scotch & bottled in Bond under Government supervision
DALGEI'Y & COMPANY LTD., AGENTS FOR N.S.W.


“Pelmanism is a living and growing scheme
of self-mastery and self-development."
PELMANISM
This illustration sym-
bolises the grip on the
mental faculties, and the
control of the emotional
states, which a Pelman
Training gives. The
former means ability;
the latter self-confidence
and the respect of others.
Scientific Training of Mind
Memory and Personality
Pelmanism is concerned with personal attributes and
qualities which are fundamental. They may be sleep-
ing or only partly developed, but they are in every
normal individual. Pelmanism develops them, separately
and together, so that amongst other things concentration
is made easier by quickened perceptions; natural energy
enormously increased by. interest and prompt decision
justified by soundness of judgment.
Amongst these attributes and qualities are:—•
Concentration
Judgment
Decision
Will-Power
Initiative
Self-Confidence
Presence of Mind
Organising Power
Courage
And a Reliable Memory.
The development of these strong, positive, vital,
qualities contributes to one’s earning capacity and makes
it possible to live intelligently in the present and build
strongly for the future.
No Matter Where or How
It is the plain truth that, no matter where or how a man may be placed—in a big
organisation working with many others; in a profession; in a small business as pro-
prietor, manager, clerk or salesman; on the land; in factory or workshop; in any
calling whatever, Pelmanism will help him to make the most of his circumstances, his
opportunities and himself.
The Efficient Mind
The Pelman Course of Training is fully described in “The
Efficient 1 Mind.” Copies are posted free. Call or write for one.
Inquiries are confidential. The Pelman Institute has no outdoor
representatives
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street), Melbourne.
Headquarters: London.
Pelmanism may be
mastered by giving
to it 20 or 30
minutes a day for
about three months.
It is intensely inter-
est i n g and the
results begin to show
within a week. It is
taught by post.
CUT OUT. OR COPY, and POST TO-DAY
To the Secretary, THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C. I.
Please send your free book, “The E,fficient Mind.
Name
Postal Address
required but an independent income, a de-
fective sense of humor and a complaisant
young man. It seems natural to an age
and society in which it is not thought odd
for girls to pay for their male escorts’
restaurant-meals and theatre-tickets. In
fact, according to Mary Borden, the novel-
ist :
One way to make a success of a novel in England
is to depict an elderly woman who inspires great
devotion in a young man.
Mr. Wyndham Lewis quotes figures from
the Registrar-General’s statistical review,
which appeared in the London “Observer”
about a year ago, showing the astonishing
number of women of 50 and over who mar-
ried men in their twenties during the statis-
tical year. Several veterans married lads
in their ’teens. According to lawyers, in
most divorces of the middle-aged the fact
that the wife had an independent income
and had developed a taste for the society
of young men caused the original break.
Side by side with this phenomenon is
that of the elderly Englishman whose mind
“yearns in its devitalisation for youth and
its abundant freshness.” Englishmen of this
type are the equivalents of the epicene
Romans—Tiberius, Trajan, Clodius and
thousands more—who travelled the ancient
world with their exoleti. They and their
young friends are not encouraged to re-
main in England, but Germany has plenty
of them, and they are to be found all over
the Riviera and in Paris. The youth who
is supported for his youth has a good time
for a while, but there is a catch in it. In
Seneca’s famous phrase he must “continu-
ally wrestle and fight with his years.” One
of Maurriac’s novels deals with the tra-
gedy of an exoletus who grew old.
At twenty-three Bob Lagave was in the Bohemian
post-war monde in Paris —the apple-of-the-eye of
a circle of rich infant-adoring, eyelash-loving mil-
lionaires and millionairesses. He was very, very
successful, and decorated everybody's flat, both male
and female, for lie was an artist.
One day he falls ill, and his youth-worshin-
ping friends come to see him. They discuss
his deteriorated looks in shocked tones
while he is out of the room.
“II a une sale tSte, vous ne trouvez pas?”
“Bob est rudement touche, vous ne trouvez pas?
Certes, il a toujours son charme”....
“Le charme de ce qui est d6j& presque fini.”
He takes to drink and is killed in a motor
accident—a happy release for one who was
too old at 23!
Mr. Wyndham Lewis endorses what vari-
ous prelates have said about the tendency
of youth to enjoy the present without
thought for the future, but he handles the
problem from a materialistic standpoint.
The boy-flappers, he contends, are being
betrayed economically. The deification
of youth as such—the U.S.A. films about
beautiful college boys, the English novels
and plays about emotional public-school
boys, the worship paid to youth by silly
old men and women—is being encouraged
and capitalised by a section that knows
neither sentiment nor aesthetics. Big Busi-
ness. The theory that the older genera-
tion is composed of dodderers and scoun-
drels who made and messed up the war, and
are now messing up the peace, is held by
most people who take their views from the
cretin press. The propaganda is being sub-
sidised for ulterior reasons by members of
the assailed generation who run England’s
popular papers. An imaginary old man is
talking to an employee who has asked for
a rise.
“There is many a good strong youth of seventeen
who would eat his hat for your job. For two pins
I’d give it to him. I love Yoinh, I do. Youth
at the Helm! That’s wft’at I say! You hop it—
and don’t let me hear again a word about highev
wages, see? From now On I drop you 4s. fid.”
The process continues after the youth has
got the job.
Young Mr. Everyman can be steamed up (by
hypnotic compulsion of press and other propaganda,
and incessant hoarse whispers in his ear that he
is young, and that he should inherit the earth by
all rights) ; and young Mr. Everyman will scowl
or curl his lip more and more,'at the sight of old
Mr. Everyman—until eventually hp ,will be telling old
Mr. E. over and over again all the disobliging things
that the strategic G.H.Q. of Big Business has had
conveyed (via press and film) into his otherwise
not very well stocked noddle. It is Cato and his
slaves over again— Divide et Impera.
“When you reflect,” concludes the writer,
“that the youth of to-day will in 15 years’
time become the villain instead of the hero
—only a villain who knows that he is a
villain, as it were—then I think you will
agree that what you may at first have
regarded as a 'theory’ of mine is, in fact, an
accurate statement of the trend of events.”
• Many parts of the book have a local
application owing to Australian society’s
habit of imitating each new English fashion
as it appears; and even those who have
fallen victims to the propaganda of the far-
sighted old press and other magnates should
enjoy it for its wit.
HENRI SINGEMOINE.
Crowd Psychology
“Sundry Showman” says (R.P., 3/8/’32)
that I do not seem to have read my “Saint
•Joan” very carefully. He writes: “Joan’s
stimulus to the emotions of the crowd
started France on the road to absolute
monarchy and nationalism. Her appeals to
its commonsense caused Her to be burned
alive.” If he means by this that the
crowd lacked the commonsense to appre-
ciate her commonsense, then he has not
read “Saint Joan” very carefully him-
self. The people Joan appeals to with her
commonsense are in Shaw’s play practically
nothing else but mouthpieces through which
Shaw talks practically nothing else but
commonsense. All these characters are rea-
son-motived. There is hardly a trace of a
real human impulse or passion amongst the
lot of them. They do not hate, love, lust,
hunger like human beings. There is not
one of them who is really ambitious or
greedy or jealous or bitter. And in real
life it is hungers and passions that motive
human actions. Reason only acts as a
director and guide. A man does not seek
for food because his commonsense tells him
to. His hunger urges him to seek it. His
commonsense only directs his urge and
shows him where to seek and what sort of
food to seek and how to prepare it. But
Shaw leaves real human motives out.
Take the case of Warwick. Warwick does
not want to have Joan burned because he
hates her or is jealous of her because she has
beaten his soldiers and shown herself a
better general than he is. He wants her
to be burned because he reasons out logic-
ally that her nationalism is a danger to the
feudal system which he says he represents.
And the Bishop of Beauvais does not want
Joan burned because she has made him
with her commonsense appear silly and
small, but because his reason tolls him that
her Protestantism is a danger to the Church
which he says he represents. It is much
the same with Joan herself. She does not
go to the flames for her faith. She reasons
out that it were better to be burned at once
than to be imprisoned for life and “shut
out from the light of the sky and the sight
of the fields and flowers.” Even Shaw’s
imbecile king talks practically nothing but
commonsense.
It is interesting and illuminating to
compare “Saint Joan” with “The Medea”
and “Macbeth” that Dame Thorndike’s
company played so ably in Melbourne.
Taking pure entertainment as the mea-
surement standard, then Shaw, with the
immense advantage to him of speaking to
an audience of contemporaries, must be
placed as a dramatist first past the post,
with Euripides and Shakspeare running
neck and neck for second and third place.
But take as a measurement standard in-
sight into that profound something that
through all the ages motivates the various
forms of human life-expression, and Shak-
speare and Euripides go into the first two
places, with Shaw a bad last. There is in
both “The Medea” and “Macbeth” an ever-
present suggestion of an inevitable fate-
fulness that gives great majesty to
these plays. There is not a trace of any
such suggestion about “Sa.int Joan” or about
any play Shaw ever wrote.
“Sundry Showman” would seem to imply
that in 20 years’ time Mr. Lang may be
accepted as a saint of economics. If he is,
then people noting his history will surely
be amazed, after reading some of the evi-
dence given in the Royal Commissions that
have been sitting in Sydney recently, at the
number of entirely unsaintly disciples he
had when he started on the road that led
to his ultimate canonisation.
ALAN D. MICELE.
Pathology in Literature
Prof. Osborne objects to my remarks
(R.P., 3/8/’32), but admits to holding
the opinion that sex pathology is best
treated in medical literature. This is
what I criticised. According to his
reasoning, Sophocles should have whis-
pered his “CEdipus Rex” into the ear
of a member of the Athenian Medical
Board. Shakspeare should have contri-
buted “Measure for Measure” in the form
of a thesis to a London medical journal
(see the character of Angelo). “The Rape
of Lucrece,” Dostoieffsky’s “The Idiot,”
Anatole France’s “Thais,” Chekov’s “Ward
No. 6” and Maupassant’s “The Child”
should never have been written; the ideas
contained in them should have been buried
in the files of medical publications. If the
fundamental assumption of psychologists
that abnormality is merely the extension
of normal characteristics be accepted, nine-
tenths of the world’s greatest literature
would, be banned if Prof. Osborne had his
way with it. This is the sort of absurdity
censors the world over land themselves in
through viewing their job moralistically
instead of artistically.
M. G. KIPPER.
And a Little Verse
THE DYING POET.
This was the lamp wherein the sacred fire
was kindled,
This was the vessel set apart;
But ah ! the flame has guttered, and the light
has dwindled.
Fed by the drainings of a tortured heart.
This was the beacon that had lit the way;
And in the empty bowd the dying spark
Has flickered—the sweat is cold upon the
clay;
The smoke goes writhing upward in the
dark!
victoria.
ALFRED DIXON.
OVERTURE.
Two opening notes like faintly-whispered
words,
A louder one, and then three crashing chords.
Meanwhile the violin, flute and piccolo
Blend in a soft, pulsating tremolo
That deepens, and, as it deepens, grows
Vibrant and lovely as a full-blown rose.
Thunder of bass almost too loud to bear'—
One mighty chord; silence, and then the air:
All the dim, misty loveliness of sorrow
Seems one with joy that knows of no
to-morrow,
In music such as Orpheus used to play
On his sweet lute to woo Eurydice.
And each calm chord and scintillating trill
Makes lovelier the symphony, until
All ends in glorious notes that bell-like ring.
The curtain’s up—Ah ! now the play’s the
thing.
VICTORIA.
P. E. G.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted:
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.A.K.: It is not their redness we draw
the line at; it’s their complete lack of color or
beauty of line... .Joyce S.: Some promise; but read,
read, read.... Norma L.: You play over-much on
one string....J. Ben: More easy writing and hard
reading... .John W. T.: No; “Jean” comes near,
with “Sea Mystery” not far behind... .A.D.McK.:
Such restraint in wooer never won the w00ed....
John A.: Put it in the pot and' boil it down to 300
simple words. .. .Bellerive: That’s the way—let them
have it straight from the shoulder:—
IN REPLY TO PRESS WRITERS WHO SUGGEST
THAT 1 AM A MYTH.
Poet’s prevailed in the ancient days,
And long years before I were born ;
Poet’s prevail in our present time’s,
There’ll be poet’s when I am gone.
Varied are the opinion’s on me—
Bellerive’s this and that;
Enough to make a poet, swear
And jump on his bally hat.
What is the matter, puzzles me;
The Bulletin can give me the sack—-
I’m neither the ghost of a classic bard,
Nor mysterious spring-heel Jack.
. ...A.C.W.: Snowed under.... Resco: Yes, but it
gets nowhere... .F.E.McC.: Tolerable ending, but all
that leads up to it is weak. .. .R.A.G.: True, son,
true, but you fail to make stately verse of it: —
What awful satire on our sense and culture
Is the colossal waste of modern war,
Where mankind’s brightest blossoms find sepulture
In holocausts which fiends would deplore.
... . J.W.H.P.: Translations from Horace are a bit
on the highbrow side.... M.G.: Hopelessly obscure.
. ...H.V.W.: Agonisingly bad verse... .G.H.J.M.: It
would make a pretty good par., but you don’t
jingle it skilfully R.McL.: No tucker here for
swaggie with “bosom smarting with the sting
of remorse”. .. .W.W.: “If” too spacious.... Akspi:
Absolutely out of our line... .Blackboy: Galloping
rhymes won’t bring the horse back... .A.8.Y.:
Evanescent as the smoke of one of your fags. . . .
Resby: You rhyme with facility; but neatness and
pointedness are lacking. .. .R.D.W.: Too technical;
might do for a medical or scientific paper....
P.J.1.: A long way after Masefield.... Umor: So
that was how you bowled out the teacup witch: —
“Your trouble, I see, is awfully serious
And your life indeed is most mysterious.
A married man, to your wife unfaithful,
Because home life to you is most distasteful.”
Now, being a single man all my life,
I said: “Madam, you’re mistaken, I have no wife.”
And silently gloating over suspicions confirmed
I leered at the woman whose word 1 had spurned.
. ...G.F.S.: Stodgy as a sodden damper... .R.F.J.:
It almost brings tears to our eyes:—-
Once people said Australia was a land of milk and
honey,
But were they to say it now it would sound very
funny.
For the squatters who with all their sheep once
made tons of money
Now that their wool’s no price at all, have to fall
back on bunny.
....Austral: Stick to prose... .D.H.R.: There’s no
“darned hide” in indicating the page for
which pars, are intended; it makes classi-
fication easier... .P.L.: Longwinded and trivial.
. ...F.1.W.: Fair idea, but it needs better
handling. .. .R.A.: Give it a fly elsewhere H.P.AV.:
Missed by a narrow margin —.H. 0.8.: Handed
Barney over to the office chucker-out... .R. 8.: Crude.
.. . .P.W.: Exciting enough for readers under 14 ... .
V. : Too gruesome... .P.M.: An unimportant in-
cident poorly related... .F.A.D.: The dreary asides
spoil it T.W.T.: Not even f.a.q K.E.: Gets
near, but the analogy doesn’t help it C.A.S.:
Grew tired of the cranky Teuton.. . .S.S.S.: In this
case there is too much economy of words... .A.S.:
You had the chance of making a fine ending and
you spoilt it J.R.: Took the count in the first
round... .J. 0.: Sentimental nonsense. .. :
Artificial. .. .A.E.K.: There’s quality in it, but not
enough. .. . T.T.8.: Anyone who could find music in
that would ride on the Sydney Underground to pleasure
his ear... .Mavis D.: Not a fresh thought in it....
G.E.W.: Rhymed nothings... .Maurice S.: At least
your sentiments do you honor. .. .K.M.C.K.: They
found an early grave... .G.K.: Your mountain doesn’t
tower; but there’s an attractive bit here and there.
... .Montok: Yes, we declined it before and we re
unrepentant... .Josephine M.: Too slight... .Rosalie
W. : Ineffectual Stone E. Broke: Forty-four sheets
of unmitigated and unredeemed doggerel on over a
score of subjects. Next!... .Cornstalk: No welcome
here for imitations of great poets. ... H.F-: Your
handwriting is a sheer joy ; your verse a sore trial.
B.A.D.: “I am sending you a poem, trusting
that it will be satisfactory.” It isn’t; incidentally
it isn’t a poem —just 160 lines of blither....
O. Jay: The dingoes ate him, but we get no thrill
out of it F.A.D.: You can rhyme trippingly, but
the meaning of the extract is too obvious to hang
a rhyme on. .. . Patre: Your muse needs a nobbier
to brighten her up G.A.: “Oh, have you known
a glorious morn in June?” Lots of ’em, but we
never pelt them with platitudes... .S.H.: Stuff!
T.A.: Below the mark. And you mustn’t pronounce
“hexameters” and “pentameters” as if they rhymed
with “peters.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.J.S.: Childish stuff A.8.H.: An unfinished
specimen.... D. 8.: Lifeless... .S.E.W.: Middling....
A.W. : Where has your sense of humor gone?....
lv.M.: Stiff and ill-balanced... .T.D.: Call it "A
Blurred Offering”... . V.G.K.: Scrappy. • • .H.A.: Con-
versation between bishop and bullocky not for this
paper.... J. D,: Looks as if caterpillars had crawled
out of the inkpot over the board. .. .E.8.C.: When
last seen the drunk was snoring in the w.p.b
W.M.: If artist is about five years old there is
promise for him....K.V.: All your lines overshoot
the mark and none of your characters cat) stand
straight F.L.: A mere collection of freaks....
A.P.C.: In the first place, see that your packages
are properly stamped. .. .M. 8.5.: An untidy batch.


ë


The Bulletin
Vol. 53—No. 2740.
August 17, 1932.
THE DEVIL STRIKES HIS GONG AND THE WAR GOD LISTENS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252 lllB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : IH-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, U Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £l is.; 6 months, 12c. 6d.;
S months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
t months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for ioz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
RUSSIA’S SECOND FIVE-YEAR
PLAN.
A very significant thing is the interest which
the technical press of America is showing
in Sovietism and the Russian Five-year
Plan; and heads of great American indus-
tries have spoken sometimes almost with
enthusiasm but always in warning of what
has been accomplished. Yet there is no
occasion for surprise. If Sovietism suc-
ceeds, as it may, it will be because it is
more like American Big Business than any-
thing else in the world, and is therefore
ridiculously unlike everything Communism
has been generally represented to be.
W. J. Austin, of the Austin Engineering
Co., of Cleveland, is one of the latest of
great American industrial chiefs to talk of
Sovietism, with which his company has had
“many and important business contacts.”
There is, he says, no benevolence about it.
It is simply a huge plan for “turning 150
million people from an agricultural into an
industrial nation on the basis of a defi-
nitely preconceived plan which involves
new methods not only of manufacturing
but of living. It is,” he adds, “the largest
investment of capital and skill that has
ever been undertaken in so short a time.”
And the planners have certain advantages:
They do not have the obsolete plants that are
a handicap to us, but, can start, with the most
modern construction and equipment that is to be
had. They are free to execute their ideas un-
hampered by an aggregation of plants which will
not fit into their plan In general their first
principle is standardisation of production to capa-
city. Their aim is to keep production up to de-
mand and no more. Without competition their
central planning body is able to do this and to
eliminate selling costs, the expense of duplicate
plants, models, etc.
The whole history of the movement (and
the departmental reports of success and
failure seem most complete) entirely sup-
ports this American’s conclusions. Instead
of the business being in the hands of a
body of Jock Gardens and Donald Grants,
it is controlled by a vast machine consist-
ing of scientific, financial and other experts.
Just as the American manager will scrap
mechanical plant that is not doing its work,
so these Russian managers will scrap human
plant. They calculate what should be
done, and they take no excuses for failure.
If plans are not realised to-day, they must
be realised to-morrow—“at whatever cost”.
is a favorite expression; which means that
the driving must be more vigorous. “We
cannot possibly tolerate that the metallur-
gical industry should lag behind,” the chair-
man of the State Planning Commission told
the Central Executive in December, 1931.
“This state of things must be brought to
an end,” Molotov—next to Stalin the most
influential man on the job—reported to the
17th Conference regarding the excessive
costs in the forestry, iron works and coal-
mine branches. And again: “The planned
rise in labor productivity has been only
partially realised. We must leave no stone
unturned to remedy this; there must be a
firmer proletarian discipline.”
The idea of uniform payment or rewards
is not harbored for a moment. As far back
as June, 1931, Stalin wrote in an address
to departmental heads:—•
What is the cause of the fluctuations in the
labor supply? I answer, the wrong conceptions
current as. to wages—the uniformisation of wages
favored by the “left.” A number of factories
have fixed the wages tariffs in such a manner that
the difference between skilled and unskilled labor,
and between light and heavy work, disappears. This
uniformisation must cease, and this [uniform] wages
system must be destroyed.
Nor is that the only idea of the benevolent
socialist to be thrown out with scorn.
Molotov, addressing a conference of heads
on the second Five-year Plan, said:—
Although it must have for its object the more
rapid improvement of the well-being of the mass
of workers and peasants, we repudiate nevertheless
the conception that “socialism produces for con-
sumption.” In principle this mistaken inference is
related to Lassalle’s slogan criticised by Marx: “All
that labor produces belongs to the worker.” As a
matter of fact, this principle is unrealisable and
manifestly erroneous. A part of the output must be
utilised for general State purposes, for the creation
of reserves, etc.
Here we have, then, this greatest industrial
organisation in the world carrying on busi-
ness, so far as the workers are concerned, on
exactly the same principles as any other in-
dustry, paying according to capacity and
performance, maintaining a large body of
highly-paid experts, and withholding a eon-
siderable part of the net proceeds for in-
vestment in industiy—which is just what
happens under individual capitalism to
four-fifths of all the net proceeds of indus-
try which do not go to the workers. But
there is this great difference in labor
under the two systems. Under Russian
Communism it is in the absolute control
of the machine which puts the success of
the Plan before everything. A human
being who will not do his part to the best
of his capacity is tossed out with as little
compunction as under individual capitalism
the bolt or the nut which will not function
is. thrown on the scrap heap.
There is no reason at all for discrediting
the claim that industry has been so well
organised and the Russian nation so
hard driven that the Five-year Plan can
be ruled off at the end of 4-|- years and a
sceond Five-year Plan put into operation.
Preparations are already well advanced for
starting this with the opening of 1933. To
a great extent, of course, it is a continua-
tion of the work of the first four years.
But another task must be faced. The
handful of autocrats who are in command,
and who realise that they must remain in
command if this business is to succeed,
know they must satisfy the 149 millions
of working bullocks that there is something
in Sovietism for them. All that most of
them can see so far is that they are driven
mercilessly to accomplish something which,
in spite of all the propaganda, they do not
understand. The second Five-year Plan
therefore is to be devoted to “a decided
improvement in the standard of living of
the working population.” Side by side with
this is what is always delicately referred
to as the “liquidation” of the “capitalistic
elements.” But there is to be no slacken-
ing of organisation. It is of interest to
Australia that special attention is to be
given to agriculture. Molotov says that
the tractor works built or to be built will
produce at least 170,000 tractors annually
by the end of the second Five Years.
And then what? Thus far the fact is
hardly disguised that “the worker and the
peasant” are getting very little out of it
all. The second Five-year Plan aims,
according to the Central Executive’s own
pronouncement, “to supply the population
with double or treble the present quantity
of the most important commodities and
foodstuffs.” The new system may do all
that for Russia and still leave the worker
short of what he normally gets under our
individualist system. That there are no
unemployed in Russia at this moment
means nothing. Even if labor were not
compulsory, there should be no unemploy-
ment with such a. vast works programme
in progress. When that job is done Russia
will have to export to pay its huge foreign
interest charges, as Australia is doing now.
Nevertheless this elaborate Planning in
Russia, with so many conditions working
for its success, may challenge the indivi-
dualist world. It is a matter for serious
consideration whether our civilisation can
afford to sit down and take the risk, or
whether common prudence does not demand
that we do some planning as well.
CHANCES OF NEW STATES.
From Senator Charles Hardy:—
Your leader, “Chances of New States”
(B. 27/7/’32), deals with many phases of
the Constitutional position, but outstand-
ing is the assumption that it would be
necessary to secure the approval of the
electors of N. S. Wales before a new State
could be established. It is the considered
opinion of the United Country Movement
that this would not be necessary, as we pro-
pose to use Section 124, which reads:—
“A new State may be formed by separation of
territory from a State, but only with the consent of
the Parliament thereof; and a new State may be
formed by the union of two or more States or parts
of States, but only with the consent of the Parlia-
ments of the States affected.”
As the United Country Movement does
not intend, at this stage, to seek an amend-
ment of the Constitution, we are able to
dismiss the clauses that come under Section
128—these deal solely with amendment to
the Constitution—and we can therefore
deal with the relevant clauses which may
influence the working of Section 124. These
are Sections 121 and 123, both of which
have been the subject of much discussion
among Constitutional authorities.
The intention expressed in Section 121 is
that the Commonwealth shall have power
to impose on new States such terms and
conditions (including the extent of repre-
sentation in either House) as it thinks fit.
This clause is definite; it cannot be misin-
terpreted. The Federal Parliament would
have the power to fix the number of
Senators and a minimum number of Repre-
sentatives. We fully realise the extent of
the power that is granted by this section,
but would point out that the operation of
this clause would not commence until the
application on behalf of the proposed area
was before the Federal Parliament, which,
of course, would follow the consent of the
State Parliament.
The really contentious section is No. 123:
“The Parliament of the Commonwealth may, with
the consent of the Parliament of a State and the
approval of the majority of the electors of the
State voting upon the question, increase, diminish
or otherwise alter the limits of the State and”....
Does this section conflict with Section 124?
We have the authority of Robert Garran,
K.C., for saying that it does not. Giving
evidence before the Royal Commission on
the Commonwealth Constitution in 1928,
Mr. Garran stated that Section 123 would
apply if the Commonwealth took the
initiative, and that Section 124 would apply
when the State took the initiative. He
made it clear that in his opinion it would
not be necessary, under Section 124, to take
a referendum of the people of the State,
provided the Parliament of the State agreed
to the proposed subdivision. He made
equally dear his belief that if the Com-
monwealth desired to take the initiative,
not only the consent of the Parliament of
the State but the whole of the electors
voting at a referendum would be necessary.
We are firmly convinced that no Con-
stitutional barrier exists to prevent the
State Government carrying out its pledge
to the people and taking referendums within
those areas desiring self-government.
Further, we believe that if the people’s
reply is in the affirmative and the consent
of the State Parliament is obtained, there
is nothing in the Constitution to prevent
the State Government from taking an appli-
cation from such areas to the Federal Par-
liament, seeking admission as new States.
May I add that throughout this long
fight we have appreciated the fair attitude
taken Up by The Bulletin, which has con-
sistently supported the principle of sub-
division, but has not hesitated to draw
attention to the many difficulties connected
with it. We feel, however, that the clouds
of doubt that admittedly surround some of
the Constitutional questions involved will
gradually disperse as we progress towards
our goal.
Anyhow, the ultimate issue in N. S. Wales
is Subdivision or Sovietism.
To which The Bulletin replied:—
It is quite the right thing to seek what is
desired under Section 124. If the business
can be put through that way, well and
good. But, as pointed out on July 27, the
meaning of the whole mass of sections deal-
ing with New States is so obscure that
whether it can be done that way is in grave
doubt ; and if it can’t be done that way,
what then?
The late Solicitor-General is quoted as
being of opinion that “it would not be
necessary under Section 124 to take a refer-
endum of the people of the State”—that
that course would be necessary only “if
the Commonwealth desired to take the
initiative.” But Quick and Garran’s “Con-
stitution” says that “it is not clear whether
it [Section 123] in any way affects other
sections by which the limits of States may
be altered.” And as to Section 124:
“The section itself says it [the separation of
territory from a State and the formation of a new
State] can be done ‘only by the consent of the
Parliaments of the States affected.’ If Section 123
is applicable to the creation of new States out of
old ones, then an additional condition precedent must
be added to Section 124 which does not appear on
its face, making it read thus: ‘Only with the consent
of the Parliaments of the States affected and of the
majority of the electors of the States voting upon
the question.’ ”
It is true that Quick and Garran presented
arguments against the view that there must
be a “majority of the electors of the State
voting upon the question”; but they were
very definite that the position is “not clear.”
Section 123 comes first. It says that “the
Parliament of the Commonwealth” may
“increase, diminish or otherwise alter” the
limits of a State with “the approval of
the majority of the electors.” Quick and
Garran say: “What was in the minds of
those who advised the amendment [which
added ‘and the approval of the majority of
the electors of the State voting upon the
question’] was to make more adequate pro-
vision to guard against the possible taking
of country from one State and transferring
it to another.” But precisely the same pro-
tection may be required by a part of a
State (Sydney, for example) against the
effects of an alteration of the boundaries.
Wherefore the High Court might say that
a provision designed for the protection of
a State against the alteration of boundaries
with a view possibly to adding to the area
of another State might properly be used for
the protection of a State against the alter-
ation of boundaries with a view to the
creation of a new State. There is nothing
in the section limiting its application to
alteration with a view to making additions
to another State.
Senator Hardy says that, as it is not at
present proposed to seek any Constitutional
amendment, Section 128 is not relevant.
But it may have some bearing on the
matter. It is claimed that the provision
for a referendum was inserted to protect
a State from being shorn of a territory to
be added to another. But Section 128 says
that no Constitutional amendment “increas-
ing, diminishing or otherwise altering the
limits” of a State “shall become law unless
the majority of the electors voting in that
State approve the proposed law.” Why
should it be necessary to get a majority
for an alteration of boundaries through a
Constitutional amendment especially? The
provision in Section 128 makes it clear that,
even though a Constitutional amendment
might be carried in a majority of the States
by a majority of electors voting, and by
a majority of all the electors voting, it still
would not be carried if it diminished or
altered the limits of a State and was not
approved by a majority of the electors in
that particular State. This seems to show
how carefully the Constitution desires to
safeguard the integrity of States until the
people themselves consent to subdivision,
and to greatly strengthen the contention
that a majority of the electors voting in
N. S. Wales must approve of the new
States before the necessary territories can
be severed.
Of course the matter is not clear. But
there is so much doubt that the only pru-
dent course for the New States movement
is to assume that a referendum will be
necessary, and make its arrangements
accordingly.
EDUCATION ON TRIAL.
[Before his recent retirement, the writer was
Assistant Chief Inspector of Schools in Victoria.)
The setting of Mr. Law’s article on Educa-
tion (B. 13/7/’32) is in half-lights and the
perspective, I think, is somewhat awry.
Much that was material was left unex-
pressed. Any discussion of the topic must
involve considerations of both aim and
method. The definition of education as
“the methodical creation of the habit of
thinking” is true as far as it goes, but it
does not go far enough. Similarly the
assertion that “an educated man is known
largely by his capacity for resisting
another man’s thought and defending his
own views” is at best partial. The develop-
ment of the whole man—physical, mental
and moral—is the accepted doctrine of
modern educationists. Further, man is a
social being, and his education must have
regard to that fact. He must be educated
as a member of a community, and, in our
own case at least, as a member of a demo-
cratic community. True, he should be
trained to think, but not merely to endow
him with the negative virtue of enabling
him to resist another man’s thought or to
defend his own views. The world is surely
more than a glorified debating society.
More reliable characteristics of the edu-
cated man are his tolerance of the opinions
of others and his readiness to use his capa-
city for thought and leadership in the in-
terests of his fellow-men. All education
worth while is a training in citizenship.
Independence of thought and judgment is
a desirable acquisition, but the logical issue
of overstressed individualism is nihilism.
The steadying influence of the commu-
nity on the individual, although viewed
somewhat askance by Mr. Law, does not
surprise the general observer. Nature
always advances by slow stages. Count-
less seons have gone to the making of
modern man: long ages yet await his
further development till he becomes one
of “that crowning race who eye to eye shall
look on knowledge.” The child of to-day
succeeds to this heirship of the ages. Of the
standards of life and conduct often pain-
fully won and laboriously established, the
community is the custodian and trustee,
and through parent and teacher the citizen
of to-morrow is brought into touch with
his responsibilities.
The greater part of Mr. Law’s article is
devoted to an attack on the Victorian exam-
ination system. But are examinations essen-
tially the awful evil that these extravagant
remarks suggest? Is not life itself a never-
ending examination? What security would
society have against the operations of
quacks of every description—medical, sur-
gical, industrial:—without some preliminary
protective precaution of this nature? Re-
stricting our consideration to the schools,
we may ask, “What is teaching but a round
of continuous examination?” The teacher
assures himself by question and answer at
each step that the mental pabulum he is
offering has been assimilated, and the more
formal examination at stated intervals
makes necessary that regular revision so
essential in education.
In the upper forms of the schools the
curriculum is necessarily affected by Uni-
versity requirements. The future profes-
sional men cannot wait until they actually
enter the University to begin the foundation
work necessary for their professional
studies, and consequently their later years
at school have the matriculation standard
in view. Even in this the University has
gone as far as it can reasonably be ex-
pected to go in the way of concession. On
the receipt of a satisfactory report from its
inspectors on the buildings, equipment and
general efficiency of any school, it extends
its approval to that school, empowering it
thereby to issue its own intermediate and
leaving certificates; and these certificates
are accepted by the University. While it
is generally conceded that a greater variety
of courses is desirable in the non-University
section to meet the varying capacity and
aptitudes of its pupils, it must not be for-
gotten that the proposition is not a prac-
ticable one except in the larger registered
schools. The Education Department, with
its technical and art schools, its domestic
arts schools, its sloyd and needlework
schools, has done much already to meet
this demand throughout the State, but
more particularly in the larger centres.
In conclusion, two other extravagant
statements may be cited. Professor Mur-
doch is quoted in reference to “our per-
fectly poisonous habit of making our grand
old English classics into subjects for exam-
ination.” What does he mean? Are “the
grand old English classics” with all their
wealth of culture and inspiration to be ex-
cluded from the schools, or are they to be
the subject of an idle prescription because
perchance some teacher or examiner handles
them clumsily?
After a long association with teachers
and teaching, I am unable to conjure up
the vision of a teacher “ladling out the
mental pabulum faster than the academic
fledglings can assimilate it.” Regulations
and prescriptions may sometimes cramp a
teacher’s individuality and damp his en-
thusiasm, but to the glory of the profession
be it said that they in their work acknow-
ledge allegiance to a higher law than any
mere official duty may impose.
J. C. LOWRY.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Well, How Are We Doing?
Australian overseas trade figures for 1931-
32 show that, including the estimated gold
production for the year exported, but ex-
cluding the export of all other gold, we are
34 millions sterling to the good. Including
all exports of gold, we were 40 millions to
die good. Our exports of merchandise were
74 millions, a million less than in the pre-
vious year; imports were 44 millions, or 10
millions less. Thus merchandise movements
put us 15 millions further on the right side
than those of 1930-31. And, as we produced
an extra million of gold, we actually did
16 millions better than in the previous year.
With the 34 millions to the good we have
to meet public debt charges of about 27
millions. This leaves 7 millions out of
which private interest and dividends on
foreign investments in Australia have to be
met. The acting-Government Statist thinks
these may take 4 millions. But to the
balance of 3 millions which that would
leave us there must be added a certain
amount of interest, dividends and other
Australian earnings abroad; and a consider-
able part of the 6 millions of gold and
silver exported in excess of the 34 millions
of new production consisted of old jewellery
and hoarded coin, which might just as well
have been buried for all the good it was
doing us. Counting that in, we were not far
>hort of 5 millions ahead of things after
paying all our current debts, public and
private.
Professor Giblin, the acting-Statist, again
points out that this satisfactory result was
the outcome of a wonderful season and an
exceptional wool clip and wheat harvest.
This is quite true. On the other hand, we
are entitled for our encouragement to also
remember that both wool and wheat were at
exceptionally low prices, and that the out-
look in both markets is distinctly better.
Indeed, the wool outlook is so much im-
proved, and looks so much like improving
further, that Professor Brigden, the Queens-
land Government’s economic adviser,
reports that this might be one of the few
occasions on which it would pay wool-pro-
ducers to hold back their offerings for a
few months. While most of the raw pro-
ducts of the world are greatly over-supplied,
we have this most comforting fact about
Australian wool: that while 2.513,373 bales
were delivered into stores in 1930-31, there
was a carry-over of only 941 bales; and
while 2,817,593 bales were delivered in 1931-
32. there was a carry-over of only 1427
bales at June 30 this year.
So far as The Bulletin can discover, there
is no other country in the world which has
made as good a recovery as Australia. A
table preDared by the great National City
Bank of New York has already been printed
on this page; but it is worth recalling. Of
17 debtor countries, only one other—Ger-
many—had as large an export balance in
1931. Only two debtor countries—Germany
and Italy—improved their trade position by
so large an amount; and Italy still had an
adverse balance. It is true that Australia had
a great overseas debt to serve. But so have
other countries; yet they have not swung
an adverse balance over to a favorable one.
When the credit for that performance is
being allotted, much of it will have to go to
the Scullin Government for the vigor with
which it joined with natural forces to cut
down imports.
4 —
Ottawa and Currency.
The Ottawa Currency Committee’s report
is very wise, but not particularly helpful
apart from its good counsels. It says
(proof, of course, of its wisdom) what this
paper has long been saying. First, it is
desirable to raise wholesale prices, and the
best plan would be to raise gold prices, but
this can be done only by international
action. It finds that the monetary factor
was not alone responsible for the fall in
prices; there wore also political causes—
reparations, for instance. Then:—
The British Commonwealth’s monetary policy
should be on sound lines towards the raising of price
levels by low interest rates and a plentiful supply
of short-term money. This should not take the
form of financing public expenditure, but should be
directed towards stimulating industry and reviving
confidence in business.
That is really the one outstanding recom-
mendation. The policy should be on sound
lines, and the price levels should be raised
by low’ interest rates and a plentiful supply
of money. The favorite Australian method
of financing public works or maintaining
an unnecessary host of public servants is
condemned specifically. Give private in-
dustry cheap money, the committee urges,
•tnd revive confidence in business—which
can only be done by economising in public
expenditure and thus reducing taxation.
Low r interest rates and a plentiful supply
of short-term monej’ to finance industry,
joined to a revival of confidence, will in-
crease not only purchasing power but the
disposition to purchase. The source of the
money is, however, not suggested.
The suggestion that prices should be
raised through exchange is not even mcn-
i ioned. But “efforts should be made to
stabilise exchange between the various
countries”: the committee “advocates inter-
national co-operation to this end”; and
“stability of international exchanges can
best be obtained by a metallic base to
currency.” This is all, so far as it goes,
a counsel of perfection; it is left to some
other body to attempt to realise it.
But does it all suggest that enough should
be done) Is it sufficient to raise prices?
That, no doubt, is the thing the moment
calls for; but what the world really needs
is some plan for the stabilisation, not merely
of exchange, but of money. Fluctuations
in world values may never be entirely ruled
out; but they can be checked. It is mon-
strous that creditors should pay in com-
modities twice as much as they contracted
to ray—or that at another time debtors
should receive in commodities only half of
what but for these price-fluctuations they
would receive. Gold must be tied in some
way to commodities; and that, of course,
can only be done by international action.
«
“The Bulletin” Discovers More Bribery.
J. T. Lang wrote to the Commissioner who
is inquiring into the tin-hare scandals re-
questing his Honor to probe into the con-
duct of certain persons in relation to a
man named Barry. This man possessed
certain documents agreeing to give him
5000 shares each in two tin-hare coursing
cos. for securing legislation to permit bet-
ting on this brand of racing; and because
he knew that the documents would be very
valuable to those who were trying to drag
Lang and his gang away from the tartshop,
he demanded £lBOO for them. Lang and
his gang were such a public danger that
the money was privately subscribed and
paid—many people would have thought it
worth 10 times that much to get rid of the
pests. Now the late Premier requests the
Commissioner to inquire into this purchase.
“The bribery of Barry,” he writes to his
Honor, “is the only bribery of which vou
have evidence so far.”
The Bulletin deeply regrets having to
bring under the notice of the Comn.issioner
—of Police, this time—a similar case of
bribery. A man had a bull named Eben-
ezer which a gentleman-farmer named John
Thomas Lang desired. The owner, seeing
that Lang, besides being a gentlemae-
farmer, was also a moneylender and a m. a
of reputedly great substance, said the price
was £25. Lang thereupon bribed the man
with the sum of £25 and so acquired Eben-
ezer; and The Bulletin brings the case
under the notice of the Commissioner with
a view to a prosecution.
4
Bavin at Cross-Purposes.
T. R. Bavin, entertained at dinner by a
band of admirers, among whom were the
Prime Minister and Premier Stevens, spoke
eloquently of politics as a career. It in-
volved sacrifices, ho said—sacrifices of
leisure, domestic life, personal freedom,
sometimes health—but the sacrifices were
“worth while.”
If a man regards his life not as a mere timid
pilgrimage from the cradle to the grave, in which
lie is to get the maximum of comfort with the
minimum of risk, but as a high adventure.... I
know of no better or more satisfying form of human
activity than politics—politics, not exactly as it is,
but as it could be and should be, as Mr. Lyons and
Mr. Stevens are trying to make it, and as I, in my
humble way, have tried to make it.
Well said; and all the more creditabh
to the speaker since he has notorious' - '
been dogged by ill-health and undeserw d
obloquy. Unfortunately the life which Mr.
Bavin marked out for himself is not the
life that he and his fellow-Nationalists have
striven to fashion for the multitude. For
him the “high adventure”; for them the
“timid pilgrimage from the cradle to the
grave.”
Emulating the Labor party, Mr. Bavin and
the Nationalists made it their main object
to secure for “the workers” “the maximum
of comfort with the minimum of risk.”
They succeeded tolerably well until the boom
burst and the loan money gave out. But
in the process - they and their opponents
(also their friends and enemies in the Com-
monwealth Parliament) laid such terrific
burdens on industry, and fastened them
with so many tough ropes of enactments
and regulations, that a man desiring to
employ unskilled laborers or office workers
in N. S. Wales must still give them a basic
wage of £4 2s. fid. a week, and insure them
under the Workers’ Compensation Act, and
pay a child-endowment tax of sd. in the £,
and income and unemployment-relief taxes
going up to 15s. 3d. in the £, and municipal
rates, and perhaps the Federal sales tax
of £6 in the £lOO, and the Federal land tax.
Yet the depression has lasted just on three
years, and the prices of our principal pro-
ducts remain obstinately below pre-war
levels, and there are 120,000 able-bodied
N.S.W. men on the dole. During the same
three years the Commonwealth old-age and
invalid pensions bill has actually increased
by upwards of a million pounds —to
£11,126,000.
Life in this continent should indeed be a
“high adventure.” Bad as the times are,
Australia passed through worse in the
’nineties; but it did not then attempt to
maintain a preposterous basic wage and
social services made staggeringly expensive
by wholesale imposition, or to keep one-
twelfth of the adult population in Govern-
ment employ. The year of the great bank
smashes was also the year of great gold
discoveries. Nor is the spirit of 1893 dead,
though the politicians have done their best
to legislate and regulate it out of existence.
Our recovery will be swift if men are set
free to give work to other men without
being taxed for doing it, and plagued by
lawyers and union secretaries, and forbidden
to reap where they have sown; it will be
retarded dangerously as long as our Gov-
ernments fear to strike the shackles off
industry lest the necessary operation cost
them "votes. ""They are crippling the fit in
the fancied interest of the unfit. That is
not the way in which Nature works-, and
man, the political animal, can claim no
exemption from natural laws.
♦
Mars in a New Dress.
"Wars under the League of Nations regime
have developed a new technique. They
invariably open with Government “A”
announcing that Government “B” has mur-
dered a missionary or arrested one of its
military officers or otherwise disturbed the
profound amity previously existing between
the two States. Government “B” counters
by denying the offence in toto, but if it
had been committed then it had been com-
mitted with good cause, because its people
had been smarting under a sense of wrong,
due to the aggressions of the other Power.
Both countries then impose a rigid censor-
ship, only broken when some foreign cor-
respondent reports that large armies are
on the march. Each then denies all know-
ledge of any military movements whatever,
except those of its opponent, its own efforts
being directed exclusively to suppressing
banditry in the dominions of the inept
foreign Government.
To avert the threatened conflict the
League lays down a barrage of notes of
protest on both fronts. These are care-
fully collected, indexed and filed by the
respective bureaucrats, polite notes deny-
ing all the charges contained in them being
forwarded to the League, with fresh charges
of murder, outrage, incendiarism, rape and
thefts against the opposing Power. These
are carefully indexed, filed and acknow-
ledged by the League of Nations’ large staff
of male and female clerks.
The veil of silence then falls again on
the. operations in the field, the centre of
activity having been transferred abroad.
Tb's new activity takes the form of a
couple of dozen neutral authors rushing
books through the press, explaining the
position from a couple of dozen points of
v», v. These are reviewed by newspapers
and magazines throughout the civilised
orld, and the international conscience be-
comes thoroughly aroused. The aroused
international conscience expresses itself in
two forms. Mobs of Communists storm the
Consulates of the capitalist Government
concerned, and mobs of Fascists storm
the Consulates of the Government sus-
pected of Communism; and both are
dispersed by the police. When .the veil of
silence mentioned above is lifted, it turns
out that a city has been destroyed by aerial
bombardment and that the forces of one of
the Governments is in full flight.
In the last act the victorious Govern-
ment discovers to its immense surprise that
its armies are in possession of a large area
of foreign territory, and announces that it
is there as the torchbearer of civilisation
and will withdraw if and when order has
been restored. The League then sends a
commission to inspect the battlefields, and
calls in a carpenter to enlarge its shelves
o accommodate the subsequent report.
+
The Science Congress.
One consideration may temper the enthu-
siasm of the gentlemen who are attending
the inaugural 1932 meeting of the Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science to-
day. The}- will be told that they represent
the most important people in the modern
world; and the statement will find an echo
everywhere. The men—very clever, what-
ever else they may be—who are trying
to build up a great industrial nation in
Russia have no doubt about it. Stalin
lately gave his people the Bolshevik equiva-
lent of a slogan: “Become expert tech-
nicians!” “If,” his chief-of-staff wrote, “our
cadres should fail to be equal to modern
technical demands, the fundamental tasks
of the second Five-year Plan will not be
realised.” What the organisers of the Rus-
sian experiment are saying, all the rest of
the world has been saying for years.
A little less than a century ago Heniy J.
Ellsworth, the then L T .S. Commissioner of
Patents, wrote about the astounding
advances made in the mechanical arts dur-
ing his incumbency of office, and, looking
back on the long years and all they had
poured into his office, he declared that “it
seems to presage the arrival of that period
when human improvement must end.” To-
day we are almost ready to say that inven-
tion had scarcely then begun. There was
no telephone or electric light; nobody had
ever been run down by a motor-car or
killed in an aeroplane crash; nobody had
ever listened to a gramophone or a wireless
or seen a moving picture; nobody had ever
set up a newspaper by linotype, planted his
grain with a drill, cut his crop with a har-
vester or shorn a sheep with a machine. So
swift are the changes in the world of
applied science that it is calculated the
average modern machine is obsolescent in
10 years; and an official of the General
Electric Co. (U.S.A.) stated in 1929 that
one-fourth of its total production was made
up of new lines developed since the war.
In the early ’nineties, as Dr. Millikan
records in his “Evolution,” outstanding
scientists believed that “it was probable all
the great discoveries in physics had been
made”; and within a year, “I was present
in Berlin when Professor Roentgen pre-
sented to the German Physical Society his
first X-ray photographs.” Since then we
have had the marvels of wireless and
“Beam” telephony, we are on the threshold
of television, ray treatment of cancer and
oilier diseases has made astounding pro-
gress, and we seem to be entering upon
further great advances in the refrigerating,
electrical and chemical industries.
It has, however, been suggested that
there is one consideration which may keep
Ihe learned gathering from getting swelled
head. To what extent has it and all that
it represents been responsible for the mess
the world is in? To what extent have the
mechanisation of industry, including agri-
culture, and the great services of chemistry
and biology to the latter industry been
responsible for bulging barns and glutted
warehouses? It is certain they have been
responsible for 25 p.c. of the population being
capable of producing the foodstuffs which
once it took 75 p.c. to win, and that would
be all to the good if the surplus 50 p.c.
had been transferred to other human ser-
vices. Unfortunately, political science has
not kept pace with the rest, and to that
failure alone is due that maldistribution of
labor which is nil that unemployment is.
4
Manipulated Exchange.
Exchange is being regarded by far too
many people as something which we have
a perfect right to manipulate if we can
make money that way. If it were put to
some of them that they could make money,
too, by debasing the coinage, they would
be shocked at the suggestion; and if the
milkmen pleaded that they were adding
30 p.c. water to their milk because they
wanted the money, it would be said they
were not only rogues but very impudent
rogues. Yet the milkmen might be able
to make out quite a good case: they might
be able to show that they were carrying on
business at a loss, and that it would be a
national calamity if they were driven to
let their cows die. “Then charge more,”
they would be told, “or see if you can’t make
economies somewhere, or improve your
market; but to water the milk—well, that
is rank dishonesty!”
Yet what is the difference between that
and manipulating the exchange? The rate
is held up so that the exporter may get
many more £’s Australian than the buyer
pays him in sterling. And why does he
want that done? Because he hopes to pass
on the debased currency for the real thing;
if he couldn’t do that, there would be no
gain for him in the transaction. In plain
words, then, he wants to debase the cur-
rency to make money out of it; and, like
the milkman, he says he must do it because
he is desperately hard up.
Of course he excuses himself: there pro-
bably was never a man who committed a
wrong who didn’t. Apart from the plea
that he needs the money, which he knows
isn’t much of an excuse, he says he does it
for the benefit of the nation—just like the
milkman. But another proposition is met
occasionally these days: it is claimed that
if it costs £l4O in Australia to buy a range
of goods which can be had for £lOO in Eng-
land, then the rate of exchange ought to be
140. It sounds very plausible, too; but it
boils down to exactly the same shoddy
excuse as the rest. The cost of living is
higher in the U.S.A. than it is in Britain;
the general range of goods costs more.
Therefore, instead of the dollar being at
a premium—instead of £1 sterling being
worth only $3.46 —£1 sterling ought to be
worth about $6; certainly much more than
$4.86, which is par!
That certain vital industries arc very
hard up is no excuse for dishonesty ; and
the manipulation of exchange, like every
other form of inflation, is so close to dis-
honesty that the difference can hardly be
noticed. If necessary these industries must
be bonused; that at least will not be in any
way dishonest. And, what is of great im-
portance, we shall be able to graduate our
assistance, giving more or less as the cir-
cumstances require. Under the plan of
making exchange give the aid, actually the
man who gets the highest price for, say.
his wool gets the biggest exchange pre-
mium. while the poor beggar who has the
misfortune to strike a particularly bad
market gets the least. And the butter
industry, which works under a “scheme.”
gets the same premium on its high prices
as the wheat-farmer, who has no “scheme.”
gets on his starvation prices.
Which Christ?
I'hom the Rev. G. C. Percival: -
“Feng-Shui” (B. 27/7/’B2) reports that his friend
General Lim Ivee, the “Chinese soldier who retired
to a monastery,” finds the Christ of the Christian
religion has been so camouflaged, distorted and
generally mutilated in the various orders, cults,
organisations and crazes as to have become un-
recognisable even by an earnest student of religion
and seeker after peace.
The fact of these various forms of thought or
faith claiming Jesus as their Patron contains a
stupendous tribute and a stupendous insult—a
tribute, as a recognition of the extent both of His
capacity and fame; an insult, because of its pre-
suming to confine universal sympathies and world-
wide and age-long representativeness within the
four walls of systems that of necessity are sectional
and piecemeal in scope and outlook. The efforts of
“Portuguese and Spanish world-conquerors”; of
“Marx, Lenin, Sun Yat Sen and Gandhi”; of Com-
munists and sectaries; of bourgeoisie and proletariat ;
and the whole haggling, babbling lot of them, to
claim Him for their Patron, must prove equally
abortive. He is the exclusive Friend of no one of
them, because He is the universal Friend of all.
and the Champion of that justice of which they all
either are seeking to be, or ought to be seeking
to be. the representative advocates and channels. He
is the Champion not even of the poor as against the
rich, and certainly not of the rich as against the
poor; but the Champion of all men, rich and poor,
as against everything that can injure or degrade.
•T was sick, hungry, in prison, and ye came to
Me.” This is the universal Christ.


N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital .. .. .. .. .. £241,341
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . . . . . . . . £3,500,000
Total Reserves approximately . . . . . . . . . , £900,000
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately , . £500,000
Area Planted . . . . . . . . . . . . 132,126 Acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kernbla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong, San Francisco, Vancouver and Paris.
e
120
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pyre
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval
HP
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE.
! 1 6 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Last year when the loan conversion was
put through, most holders thought they were
saying good-bye to a big lump of their capi-
tal as well as their interest. But as money
has got steacAly cheaper prices have steadily
risen, and one day last week “Consols” fall-
ing due at various dates right on to 1950
were quoted at or above par. But the net
price is still not quite that good; as the
seller forfeits his accrued interest, the actual
price varied from £9B 3s. 6d. to £99 10s.
The Commonwealth Bank has already
over nine millions in London, which exchange
has piled up there; and if the rate dropped
to par the bank would get £lOO for what
cost it from £125 to £l3O. Those who want
the rate raised have at last been got to see
that presently a sum large enough to smash
the bank might be piled up in London; so
Earle Page has pi’oposed that the profits of
the Commonwealth note issue shall be col-
lared to make a reserve. At present 75 p.c.
of the profits go into consolidated revenue
and the other 25 p.c. to the capital account
of the Rural Credits Department, until that
account (£1,637,837 at the end of 1931)
reaches £2,000,000. But Page always was
more interested in piling up debt than in
making sure of its repayment.
Though the matter may in some way be
brought to the High Court, it looks as though
the Privy Council decision in the S.A. Dried
Fruits case builds a stiff harrier for compul-
sory wheat or other pools to climb over. “The
only question in this case,” the Privy Council
judgment says, “appears to be whether the
Minister did exercise his powers so as to
restrict the absolute freedom of inter-State
trade.” If “the absolute freedom of inter-
state trade” is interfered with when a pool
seizes, say, the wheat produced by a grower,
and determines its destination, then the
seizure is unconstitutional; and that would
put an end to compulsory pools.
Queensland’s new Parliament is to be kept
busy for the next couple of months. Bills to
provide assistance to the agricultural, timber
and mining industries are mentioned in the
Governor’s speech; also bills to reorganise
the Agricultural Bank, relieve mortgagors and
other debtors, set up a Bureau of Indus-
try on which trades-unions are to be repre-
sented, reintroduce the 44-hour week and
restore the adult franchise in Greater Bris-
bane. Nothing was said about tempering the
wind to the shorn pastoralist, but his vote
is unimportant.
“I see a bird that’s going to have a great
influence on your career. A Gander.
And there’s a tall, dark man who’s
crossed your path and will cross it
again. He’s flashing a fistful of notes;
fid, fijmee—no, I can’t tell what the
notes are: but beware!”
Victoria has a quarter-million eo. on the
stocks to manufacture tobacco; and the pre-
sent idea is to put up the factory at Bendigo.
It is proposed to contract with growers to
produce crops under the co.’s experts and
to ask the Commonwealth Government for
absolute protection for the industry. The
industry needs protection, of course; but
what about the public? Sugar got absolute
protection; and Victoria has made enough
noise about that. But it never had any com-
plaint to make about quality; and that is a
feature which will have to be watched very
carefully so far as tobacco is concerned —
in the interests not only of the smoker, but
of the growers of good leaf.
For the year to June 30, Australia’s ex-
ports were £40,193,000 in excess of its im-
ports. In other words, exports paid for
imports, and left £40,193,000 towards pay-
ing interest on the country’s shocking over-
sea debts —a bit more than was required for
the purpose. It is sincerely hoped that
prices will become better, and that bad har-
vests won’t happen to counter-balance the
improvement. Australia has landed a big
British Army beef contract, and it is a good
sign that this was announced at Ottawa.
If the Commonwealth has a few years like
1931-32 it may pay off its £85,000,000 ol
floating debts, and feel that it is solvent
again.
Canada’s provincial debts amount to about
£100,000,000. Australia, where the States
run practically the whole show, added over
£301,000,000 to its State debts, to say no-
thing of a dizzy collection of overdrafts, be-
tween 1920 and 1930, raising them from
£425,902,000 to £727,640,000. It has no
thing in particular to show for this amazing
public drunk, except that it imported an
immense quantity of goods that it couldn’t
pay for, and that Lang defaulted twice.
“The Prime Minister and the Premier of N. S.
Wales are trying to reduce their estimates, and are
finding it very difficult to discover where economies
can be made.”
“I suffer from indigestion, Steevo , and I
don’t know what to do to get rid of it.”
“Same here, Aloysius, and I’m sure I’ve
tried everything I can think of.”
Victoria permits amounts paid in unem-
ployed-relief tax on salaries, wages, rents
dividends and interest to be deducted from
income subject to its State income tax. N. S.
Wales not only disallows these deductions
(in effect, taxing the 95 p.c. of income actu-
ally received by its victims as if it were 100
p.c.), but claps its ls.-in-the-£ unemployed-
relief tax on income from Victoria, though
Victoria scorns to exact unemployed-relief
tax on income from N. S. Wales. If
Stevens does not veto this bureaucratic
bushranging, he is not the man people take
him for.
“The Women’s Central Organising Com-
mittee of the N.S.W. Labor party” met the
other evening and talked itself hoarse over
the case of Moxley, who murdered two young
people while “Labor” was in office and had
the misfortune to have his fate decided by a
“capitalistic” Government. A lady’s motion
that he shouldn’t bang was lost by one vote.
It is said that the matter will be dragged up
again, and that the committee will be ter-
rorised by threats of expulsion from “the
movement.” The Decalogue says emphati-
cally that Moxley shouldn’t have killed and
secretly buried the two young people (20th
chapter of Exodus, verse 13), and in the
next chapter (21st of Exodus, verse 12) it
says that execution is the only correct thing
in the case of a man-killer —and one of the
beast’s victims was a woman. But “the
movement” doesn’t take any particular stock
in the Decalogue.
Argyle has been staggered by the dis-
covery that 604,513 Victorians —upwards of
a third of the population—are receiving
Government aid in some form. He plans to
economise and recast income taxation so as
to keep the deficit down to £9oo,ooo—it was
£1,600,000 last year. People drawing be-
tween £156 and £2OO p.a. who now escape
income tax will have to pay something, and
charges will be made for secondary educa-
tion. At present no fees are paid in high,
higher elementary or technical schools by
children under 14.
Earle Page must wink at the butter kings
in his dominion when he proposes that the
exchange rate shall be either maintained or
increased in the interests of the wool-growers.
Page knows that the butter exporters get
exactly the same exchange premium as the
wool exporters, though butter in May was
38 p.c. above 1911 prices, while wool was
13 p.c. below them. In other words, the
butter man got 25 p.c. of £l3B, or £34 10s.,
where the woolman got 25 p.c. of £B7, or
£23. 15s. Exchange thus gives the biggest
bonus to those who need it least.
So long as every State is entitled to fix
wages in its industries, the inter-State trade
war, which Federation was going to kill, will
keep lively. There was a strike in the Vic.
textile trade the other day, really caused by
the Industrial Commission which is sitting
in N. S. Wales, and which is pretty certain
to make a cut in the basic wage. In N. S.
Wales the wage is £4 2s. 6d. for 44 hours
for men, plus child endowment, and £2 7s.
6d. for women; in anticipation of a reduc-
tion of those figures, the employers in the
Vic. textile trade wanted to make a cut from
£3 16. 6d. to £3 ss. 3d. for 48 hours for men
and from £2 to £1 14s. 3d. for women. A
compromise was reached, and later it was
said that if the wages in N. S. Wales were
brought sufficiently low the Vic. trade would
get a good lift.
On an output of 5248 tons, the biggest to
date, the State sugar-beet factory at Maffra
(Vic.) made a profit of approximately
£58,000 in 1931-32. The yield is nearly all
consumed in Gippsland east of Warragul. If
the Federal Government’s negotiations with
Queensland canegrowers result in a reduction
of the retail price by a halfpenny per pound
bang will go about half of the Maffra profit.
There is the expected roar of protest at
the suggested liigh-school fees —both N.S.W.
and Vic, are chewing it over. It is said the
bright boys of the poor should be given a
chance. They certainly should. But actually
the high schools have been filled to overflow-
ing with boys who are not bright at all, and
who have been encouraged to take up jobs for
which they are not naturally equipped and
from which they are likely to get only misery.
To push children out of the primary schools
into the highs has been little short of an
obsession these last few years.
FrankstOn (Vic.) Council woke up to
the fact that it was paying £65 a year to
the Railway Department for the mainten-
ance of half a mile of siding to a municipal
quarry on which four trucks have been run
in eight years. A suggestion for the solu-
tion of the financial problem was to cut
the siding off from the main line and con-
sider it non-existent. The general public
would like to do the same to a lot of other
non-paying lines, but considering the interest
hill non-existent presents difficulties.
Unpleasant remarks are being made about
the Seamen’s Union. The story goes that
the Sydney branch’s telephone and electric-
light have been cut off for non-payment;
that its lawyers have struck because they
can’t get their fees; and that a lot of com-
pensation cases, some of them probably just
ones, have been dropped for want of money
to proceed with-—all this in spite of the fact
that the unfortunate members have been
charged an extra £1 a head to cover working
expenses. Many other unions are in diffi-
culties. The trouble seems to be that there
are too many officials, mostly hungering for
seats in Parliament, and all anxious to pre-
vent somebody else jumping their jobs, and
to justify their positions by finding some
excuse to hold up industry somewhere or
anywhere.
Wonthaggi, where Vic. runs a State coal-
mine, wasn’t many years in developing the
same trouble that has sat so heavily on the
chest of the N.S.W. coalfields and even-
tually almost killed them. Because of the
strike or whatever it was at Maitland
(N.S.W.), more hands were put on at
Wonthaggi; and when Maitland got to work
again, Wonthaggi was over-manned. But it
wants to continue over-manned, and has been
raising Cain over dismissals. Dismissals at
the moment may be hard; but over-manning
is the curse of every coalfield. It ends in
a struggle to get enough pay in one day to
last two; and generally there is a com-
promise which starves both the miner and
the mine.
“A Mosman doctor reported that a man answer-
ing to the description of a policeman missing from
Newcastle called at his surgery suffering from loss
of memory.”.
DR. U.A.P. ELECTOR : “Try to recall what
you threatened to do to the State
Lottery when you were after my vote.”
POLICEMAN WEAVER: “It’s no good, doc —I
simply can’t remember.”
The coming N.S.W. Parliamentary session
is expected to be the most remarkable in
the State’s history. Lang left a deficit of
£38,000,000, and if he were returned to-
morrow to all the power he ever had he
would never have another deficit like it, or
dimly resembling it. The only way to have
a shortage is for a Government (or two
Governments, one State and one Federal)
to spend more than it is receiving, and if it
stops receiving it must stop spending at the
old rate even if it has to do without its de-
ficit. In the Commonwealth and N. S. Wales
it becomes a question of cutting down tin-
pension list, the dole, some of the education
expenditure and a lot of sundries in an
orderly fashion lest they should cut themselves
down, the devil taking the hindmost. This
may yet be defined as the beginning of tin-
genuine national cris’s, the crisis until now
having been met by selling short-dated
Treasury Bills to the banks.
“Charged with having restored the spoils system
by appointing defeated politicians to Government
billets, Forgan Smith is championed by the Labor
press, which asserts that ‘the movement intends, by
the process of mass enlightenment, to transform the
whole social fabric —to inaugurate a new order.’”
PREMIER FOGGY: “We’re inaugur-ratin ’ a new
or-rder-r, comr-rade, so or-rder-r what
you like. The taxpayer-rs will pay.”
Ex-Ministers Tully and Davidson gave evid-
ence before the N.S.W. Tin Hare Commission
the other day, and liaise Rogers, J., re-
leased them from further attendance, saying
they had nothing to answer. About the same
time Queensland's Secret Payments Commis-
sion took evidence from cx-Minister Wal-kcr,
now in hospital, concerning a payment of
£l5OO made to him in 1924, when he was a
director of the Wide Bay Co-op. Co., by
Wildridge and Sinclair, who had secured a
contract from the co-op. co. for the build-
ing and equipment of a butter factory. From
his sick bed Walker said that the sum
represented money for work done on behalf of
Wildridge and Sinclair when he was in Europe
in 1924—he had made lengthy inquiries and
prepared an advisory report on butter-factory
equipment and processes. When the allega-
tions about secret commissions were made
last year he went to the firm and asked them
to take back the £l5OO and hold it in trust
pending inquiry as to whether or not he had
been entitled to take it. He denied ever hav-
ing received any secret commission or com-
missions of any sort.
As the cockeyed law works in Sydney,
assault committed by anti-revolutionaries is
punished far more severely than assault com-
mitted by revolutionaries. A Communist
rowdy concerned in the attempt to rush the
Japanese Consulate was convicted on two
charges of assault on policemen who were try-
ing to hold the mob back; one of the bashed
constables, who had arrested a “demonstrator,'
was struck “a violent blow on the jaw from
behind.” Accused was fined £5 on one
charge and £2 on the second, in default 14
days. Other riotous Reds were merely
“bound over.” Yet six of the New Guards-
men implicated in the “assault” on Garden,
who has done more to promote “the Revolu-
tion” in these parts than any ten other agi-
tators —an affair in which no one was
hurt and there was not the remotest likeli-
hood of complications with a proud mili-
tary Power —were sentenced to three months’
hard labor without the option. A seventh got
a month and an eighth was let off on signing
a bond, though they had all pleaded guilty
to the same charge. It was suggested that
the three months should be reduced to a
month; but the Government thought of wine
the Trades H'all would say, shivered, and
d-d-declined to int-t-terfere.
Reprints on art paper of Norman Lind-
say’s excellent page cartoon in this issue
will be forwarded to any address in
Australia or N.Z. on receipt of 6d. to
cover postage and wrapping.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“0.W.W.”: I passed on several Lang
“debentures” (issued as propaganda at last
N.S.W. election) to a Gisborne (M.L.)
THE TAXATION NIGHTMARE.
GRAN'MA (whose husband was a member of a recent
unsuccessful deputation): “Come inside, you dirty
child. If Lyons saw you he’d make us pay land
tax on you.”
friend, who, finding that they resembled
pound notes (we have ’em all colors and
shapes in M.L.) when folded or crumpled
up. spent an enjoyable Saturday afternoon
dropping them at a busy corner and watch-
ing the light of joy and .subsequent dis-
appointment on the faces of those who re-
trieved them. The last one was picked up
by a flapper, who, contrary to expectation,
did not register disgust or mutter bad words,
but smilingly tucked away the find in her
purse. A terrible thought struck my friend.
Hastily searching through his pockets he dis-
covered a neatly-folded “debenture.” What
he had last cast away was a genuine £1 note.
* * * *
“D.D.”: In his account of the cartoon
depicting the tug-of-war between the advo-
cates of North' Head and South Head for
possession of the Macquarie lighthouse,
“W.J.N.” was true to detail (B. 3/8/’32),
but why did he stop at the picture? I re-
tain an even more vivid memory of Parkes,
depicted as addressing the victors in these
eloquent words- —“ ‘The public mind may be
very hequally divided regarding the site of
this l’ght’ouse, but Hi say hagain that hany
h interference with the great constitutional
principles hnpon which light’ouses < hare
hereeted should never be permitted to’
(Loud cheers mingled with the screams Of
the seagulls).” “W.J.N.” recalls that car-
toon because he worked on the producing
machine, and I recall it because it appeared
in the first copy of the BULLETIN I ever saw.
“Gregory Terrace”: Brisbane’s
“Rotten Row” was opened with
due form and ceremony the other
day. It is a tan-covered oval, some
two miles in circumference, run-
ning round Victoria Park, a big
area close to the city, for long
given over to cows and lovers, but
how harboring excellent golf links.
For years the big park was an
unknown territory to the majority
of Brisbane’s citizens. The golf
course and the ride have intro-
duced many of these to what looks
like the remnant of some eyclo-
pean ruin tucked away in one
corner. This is the foundation
lay-out of what was designed to
be a magnificent Government
House, begun in the years that
the locust has eaten, Unfortun-
ately, the insect also got busy on
the fuhds provided for the build-
ing and the job Was abandoned.
* * *
“Esters”: The other day a huge
gathering in France, which in-
cluded eminent folk of many
nations, celebrated the 250th anni-
versary of Dom Perignon, the,
monk who first discovered how to
make the White wines of Cham-
pagne sparkle. This benefactor of
the human race was Abbot of the
Abbey of Hautvilliers, in which a
statue of him stands to-day.
Britain, however, was a long time
in availing itself of the Abbot’.-,
discovery. Well into the Vic-
torian age “still” champagne was
a popular wine, but it was re-
served for the future Edward VII.,
when Prince of Wales in the ’six-
ties, to bring the fizzy variety into
popular favor. Curiously enough,
the late King Ned always had his
champagne decanted—a proceed-
ing not easily understandable to
the modern wine-drinker.
“Ad.”: Adelaide Police Court has made a
legal precedent by taking evidence from a
bird. On a charge of liquor-selling in a
house, the police gave evidence of talk of
beer, and of various suspicious noises. A
large cockatoo was brought into court to
show how it could make most of the noises,
and (plus sworn evidence that there was
beer, but no selling) won the case for the
defence.
“Der Jong”; An English
temperance advocate has
been claiming credit for the
continued success of the Cam-
bridge rowing crews against
Oxford of late years. He
days he persuaded the Can-
tabs to substitute brown
sugar for the traditional
beer, with the result of added
energy to the oarsmen and
further glory to the blue-
ribbon cause. Brown sugar is
full of molasses, which is the
basis of rum, a fact which
rather clouds the temperance
issue, but there is no doubt
about its stimulating quali-
ties, In the Flying Columns
of the Boer War a ration of
brown sugar was mixed with
the feed of the horses with
excellent results. And Light
Horsemen will recall the
sucrepgille issue of hay
mixed with molasses which
had such a good effect on the
horses of the Sinai-Palestine
campaign. I have often
thought, too, that the huge
feeds of dates the hungry
neddies wolfed in the Sinai
palm groves in 1916 had a
lot to do with their extra-
ordinary endurance.
* 3:
“Erua”: The liner Tam.i-
roa, which recently arrived
at Wellington (M.L.) from
England, brought five non-
paying passengers, rescued
at sea. They were part of a
company of 19 carrier
pigeons, encountered 600
miles from land, obviously
lost and very weary. The
whole lot circled around and
showed their ringed legs, but
only five responded to the
warm invitation to alight
and join the ship's company.
Six others hovered round all
night, and next morning
were reported safe aboard a
tanker bound for the Dutch
West Indies. The Tamaroa’s
feathered pets will be taken
back to England and there released to find
their way home.
“Penfield”: The average farmer or grazier
is scared stiff lest his bank will throw him
off the property; he would be a lot easier if
he only knew how scared the bank is lest
he will go off. That, of course, in cases where
the man is a hard trier and knows his busi-
ness. There is an old story told of John
Russell French, so long g.m. of the Bank of
N. S. Wales. A Queenslander had had a long
run of shocking seasons ; and still the local
manager of “the Wales” kept making ad-
vances. At last the Queenslander could
stand it no longer, went to Sydney and
called on French, whom he knew. “Well,
what are you doing down here?” French
asked. “I’ve come to tell you that you’ve
alreadv advanced far too much on ,” the
visitor answered, “and I’ve come to throw
it in.” French looked at him. “Still fond of
the races?” he asked. The Queenslander
admitted it, but said he hadn’t seen a race
for three years. “Time you did,” French
answered. “What about Randwick to-
morrow?” The Queenslander paused. “Look
here, Mr. French,” he said impatiently, “you
know I’ve got no money for Randwick."
French rang a bell, and wrote an order.
“Bring Mr. £lOO in notes,” he said.
When they came he handed them to the
creditor. “Now, Mr. -. please take these.
FLATTERY.
“Well, what new lie have you brought home with you to-night?"
and we want you to have a good time at
Randwick to-morrow.” He came back on
Monday. “Well, how did you get on on
Saturday?” French asked. “Fine!” said the
Queenslander. “Made a bit, in fact.” “Good,"
said French. “I can’t see you. to-day. Come
back on Friday.” (There were other race
days during the week.) The Queenslander
turned up as directed, resolved to get the
job over quickly. Instead French got to
work. “Now, Mr. , do you know any-
body who knows [the station] as well
as you do? No? Of course, you don’t.
There isn’t anybody. And you proposed to
leave it and let us get out of it the best way
we can! Well, I hope we won’t hear any
more of that. Have a good spell—then go
back, and we’ll both get out of it without
loss, I hope.” The Queenslander begged
Russell French’s pardon, thanked him, went,
back, the tide turned and he kept his station
and made a heap of money, while the
B.N.S.W. lost nothing, but made a customer
who was almost as good an ad. for the bank
as a half-page in The Bulletin.
afe - $ $ $
“Lord Luvus”: A picture which lingered
in the mind after a visit to the “Back to
Natui’e” exhibition, opened by Prof. Wood-
Jones in the Mel-
bourne “Herald”
building, was of the
diagram illustrat-
ing the history of
human culture from
the first appear-
ance of primitive
man upon this
troubled scene. A
thin band of vary-
ing colors repre-
sented the prehis-
torical period and
stretched nearly
the length of the
big room. Then
came the appear-
ance of civilisation
in Egypt. An inch
or so further on
Solomon reigned, a
couple of inches
more and Christ
was born, a hand’s-
breadth later the
first William con-
quered En g land,
and less than a foot
further the record
terminated in 1932.
While I was con-
templating this im-
prossive testimonial
to the thinness of
the veneer that
covers the primor-
dial brute, a fly alighted on the last-
named band and, departing, left an addi-
tion to the graph-intended by the insect to
represent, no doxibt, the contribution to cul-
ture of the daily pictorial press.
* * * *
“Whitehall”: J. A. Kensit, who “led two
charabanc-loads of men and women mem-
bers of the Protestant Truth Society in a
raid on an old Anglican church in Cornwall”
last week, has a small bookshop to the south-
west of St. Paul’s Cathedral. His father
began the image-smashing business in the
’nineties, but never brought off a coup as
big as last week’s, when everything of value
in the church seems to have been destroyed,
including a fifteenth-century font. The
Kensits specialise in anti-Romish literature
of the “Maria Monk” brand, but their activi-
ties have always been directed not against the
Papists so much as the High Church people.
The thing that infuriates the English ritual-
ists is that most of the demonstrators are
Presbyterian aliens from Scotland and the
north of Ireland. Mr. Kensit, who will sell
you a criminal libel on a dead Pope as defer-
entially as the haberdasher over the way
might sell a pair of socks, is a mild-looking,
bespectacled little man, but he has the repu-
tation of being a demon when he gets into
a ritualistic church with a crowbar. One
characteristic is in his favor and differentiates
him from some of our Red leaders in Aus-
tralia : he is always in the forefront of the
battle and ready to take any medicine that
may be coming to him.
* * * *
“F.1.A.T.”: Driving to the public danger,
which is almost entirely a matter of fast
driving—driving “out of hand,” as coaching-
men used to say—will never bo checked til!
the penalties are revised. Roads are getting
better and better, and cars are getting faster
and faster; but human beings take as long
to dodge an oncoming projectile as ever. Few
motorists fear a fine; most of them are
motorists because they can afford luxuries.
The only punishment they dread —a con-
viction for manslaughter, of course, excepted
—is license suspension. Justice Goddard
THE MIND-READER.
BILLY'S WIFE: “Billy is great at picking quarrels. He can read
your thoughts and, say just the thing that annoys most.”
BILLY'S SISTER: “Yes, Billy always had a wonderful incite.”
charged a Grand Jury in Kent as follows
last, month: —
You should consider whether or not people who
show themselves inconsiderate drivers, and reckles<
of the safety of others on the road, should not be
deprived for long periods —not merely for a matter
of months, but for a matter of years.
A death a day, many of the slain being
children, is the penalty Australia is paying
for its “inconsiderate drivers. ’ I have
yet to meet a decent motorist who thinks
that the presence of the speedsters is worth
the loss of the kids.
THE STOKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beside the bar he slaked his thirst
With something of dejection,
One not so much in grog immersed
As gloomy retrospection.
•“Cheer up,” I said; “though things are crook,
They’ll soon be moving quicker.”
He gave the shelves a vicious look:
"I’d like to bring the blokes.to book
Who’ve broken down the liquor.”
He hitched his pants and gave a snort
And by his gods adjured me.
Twas just the same in every port,
Profanely he assured me.
Ahd who should know firemen chaps,
Whose parches ne’er abated.
How brandy, whisky, rum and schnapps
Along with Various other taps
Had all deteriorated.
Beer wasn’t what it was, he swore
With emphasis, and should be;
And doubts assailed him more and more
Whether it ever Would be.
No matter where you Went: ashore,
The satisfying skinful
Became a harder thing to score
Before they barred the tavern door—
A thing he reckoned sinful.
He counted it a dirty trick,
The sailor man to injure,
To scotch the Scotch’s old-time kick
And rob the gin of ginger.
The same old tale from London town
To any side the water,
Although the rum was just as brown,
You couldn’t feel it going down
The way a fireman oughter.
“Cheer up,” I said, “and face it square.
These times of stress and trial
In sacrifice we all must share
Nor jib at self-denial.
The whole wide world might else have woke
To find real ruin handy.”
He shook his head and glumly spoke:
“But how about us birds that stoke?
Consider all the hearts they’ve broke
By breaking down the brandy.”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Strict Veg.”: All sorts of people get
caught up in the avalanche of these mystery
hikes as they make their resistless way across
the countryside, and sometimes the accidental
association has queer repercussions. On a
recent occasion a group of gentlemen inter-
ested in the moral salvation of the country
were posted by the wayside observing the
conduct of some hikers, when they were
amazed to see three nuns among them. The
crowd was roaring a community song while
the sisters were moving along, placidly telling
their beads, as if they were pacing a convent
garden.
BETTER STICK TO DADDY.
MOTHER: “If that boy speaks to you in the street again, you come at once and tell me!’
SMALL DAUGHTER: “But, Mummy, I don’t think we’d better bother about him. I’m
sure he hasn’t got nearly as much money as Daddy.”
"The Liston ing-Inseot”: A bachelor who
is deaf and lives alone in a house in Beau-
maris, Vic., relieves his solitude with radio.
Owing to iris disability he is always on the
look-out. for the most powerful type of
loud-speaker available. Recently he got
on approval two. examples designed for
theatres and was just tuning-in to different
stations when he received an urgent wire
calling him to Gippsland. He threw a
change into a hag, locked up his house,
leaving some top-storey windows open, and
dashed for the train, having omitted to
switch off the two sets. During the next
few days his near neighbors listened with
ill-concealed impatience to a continuous
titanic duet, which commenced with the early
morning exercises, proceeded through the
10.30 sporting talks, the news and markets
intelligence, the 2 p.m. dissertations on home
furnishing, the melo-pianos at three, the
George Moon, jun., entertainment at 3.28.
and so on to the meditation music at mid-
night. Finally the police were appealed to,
but they declared they had no authority to
break in. After four days of the most inten-
sive wireless entertainment in local radio
history the householder returned, to find
himself the most unpopular man in the
stfeet.
“Oxmead”: “Jeames,” discussing the
various meanings assigned to the word “gen-
tleman” (B. 10/8/’32). observes that “in
hundreds of British and Continental homes
no one is a gentleman unless he has the right
to bear arms.” But when I went to Oxford
in the ’eighties a distinction still lingered
between “armiger” and “gentleman,” and the
University calendars of the period-—and pro-
bably for years afterwards—stressed it with
an amazing snobbishness. The possessor of
a family crest and motto was matriculated
with an A in brackets after his name; ii
default of such a mere G was his portion. {
In other words everyone was accounted v t
gentleman, hut the arms-bearer was an out- <
size in gents.
* * *
“M. de Paris”: I am pretty sure that a
stimulant of some kind is usually adminis-
tered to those Australian clients of Jack Ketch
who are in need of it (I:». 10/8/’32). In France
the authority who notifies a condemned man
he has to die, waits until a few minutes
before the ceremony. With the words “Mon
ami, prenes courage!” he presses a bottle of
cognac on the subject and a few moments
are allowed for a deep drink before the
pinioning and the brief journey to “The
Widow.” In India, an opium pill or a dose
of bhang induces semi-insensibility, and
indeed in this connection opium seems to be
the ideal dope. A friend of the writer’s in
British New Guinea who had to superin-
tend a hanging rather overdid the merciful
act. He had no opium, so he administered
a stiff dose of laudanum. The condemned
man was carried unconscious to the gallows
and my friend is not sure to this day
whether the laudanum or the rope carried
out the law’s fiat. If the former, then he
was legally guilty of murder, since the sen-
tence specified hanging.
“Inner Temple”: The Wright libel ease
(B. 10/8/’32) offers no working precedent
to those whose dead relatives are defamed in
Australia. Lord. Gladstone, who got Wright
into court by becoming a libeller himself,
was a very rich man, to whom it mattered
little how’ much lie spent to vindicate his
father’s memory. Wright wasn’t an ordi-
nary libeller; he belonged to a club (the
Bath), which kicked him out when his guilt
was established. The loss of his club was
really the only punishment he suffered: the
costs didn’t trouble him, as he has plenty
of money. Finally, odd though it may sound,
the Gladstone family wanted the G.O.M. to
be libelled by someone of Wright’s class.
Lying yarns liad been whispered about the
old man for years, but no chance offered to
nail them till Wright made his reference. I
saw the trial, and was impressed (1) by
\V right’,s courage and ability (his impassive
monocled visage never flinched before the
hatred of practically everybody of note in
court, from the Judge downwards), and (2)
by the devotion of the G.O.M’s. octogenarian
friends. They were all there—Lord Pliilli-
more; T. P. O’Connor, Augustine Birrell and
many more—and despite their years they
gave me thc impression of dogs on a leasli,
eager to spring at the imperturbable young
man in the witness-box. There has never
been a trial like it in Loudon before, and
it is doubtful if there will be again. It
was agreed at the. time that the reputations
of the dead ought to be protected, and some
stirring articles were written on the sub-
joct; but of course nothing was done by
Parliament. The dead have no votes.
“I'm going to learn the piano when I’m six — what’re you going to learn?"
“My daddy’s going to teach me the wireless.”
“Lao-dah”: The gathering interest in eco-
nomics was convincingly demonstrated in
Melbourne the other night, when Prof.
Douglas Copland set out to expose the falla-
cies of the Douglas Social Credit system
in a public lecture. The Central Hall was
sold out, and a microphone had to be hastily
brought in and a line taken to the Assembly
Hall in Collins-strect. The professor illu-
strated his arguments with lantern slides
and similar slides were exhibited simultane-
ously to his unseen audience at the other
theatre. Whatever the merits of his argu-
ments, Copland knows how to control an
audience. His crowd was largely composed
of passionate Douglasites, but he kept it in
good humor where the average political
spruiker would have infuriated it.
* * * *■ *
“C.Q.”: The nomad instinct dies hard
in Binghi, even after a lifetime spent in
native reservations. An abo. was arrested
by a too-zealous cop in Mel-
bourne for street musicianship,
the musical instrument being a
gumleaf held in the palm of the
hand. Asked why lie had left
the station at Lake Tycrs, he
told the Bench he had gone for
“a bit of a walk.” Lake Tyers
is 210 miles from the metropolis.
* * * '
“Saybo”: Most of the Ameri-
canisms with an old English
flavor which gave occasion for
a recent controversy in the “S.
M. Herald” come from the east
of England, which is only
natural, seeing, that these east-
ern counties supplied most of
the Pilgrim Fathers. Curiously
enough, while the amateur philo-
logists were wrangling over
“bo.” which one of them discov-
ered had been put by Marcus
Clarke into the mouth of Gab-
bett in “His Natural Life” and
another asserted was to be found
in Shakspeare, nobody men-
tioned that, as the equivalent
of “boy,” the word is good East
Anglian to this day. Sometimes
it is spelt “Dor” —the spelling
is seldom rigid in provincial
words. Dickens used it when
he makes Ham Peggotty address
David Copperfield as “Master
Davy, bor”; David, being him-
self a “young Suffolker,” natu-
rally understood it. Similarly,
“hike” is pure Norfolk or Suf-
folk, and may be heard there to
this day, although it remained
for America to dig it up out of
almost obsolete provincialisms
aud send it spinning round the
world with a new and specialised meaning.
* if :J:
“Nikko”: The head of one Sydney family
is just as uncompromising a precisian as
Judge Curlewis (B. 3/8/’32), and takes a
pride in the purity of his family’s speech.
If is only during his absences that Iho young
folk are apt to slump. Dad was away for
two months recently, and on his return was
talking to a distinguished guest, who com-
plimented him on the correct diction of his
youngsters. “Yes,” said the gratified parent,
“none of my children uses slang. They hear
it, of course, but they never attempt it at
home.” Just then a nine-year-old entered.
“Excuse me, father,” said he, “I have to
buy a book at the corner shop. Could you
cough up a bob?”
* ❖ #
“Gasp”: Speaking of marooned stowaways.
I was engineer on a Cardiff tramp in 1909.
We were leaving Buenos Aires for Port
Pirie, and there were camps of unemployed
seamen round the waterfront, mostly drunks
who had missed their ships. Though we
searched everywhere no stowaways were
found, but before we reached the mouth of
the Plate River no fewer than 17 came to
light. The skipper remarked that one or
two wouldn’t have mattered, but 17 was too
hot. So he steamed up the Uruguayan
coast until ho came to a suitable beach,
A lifeboat was lowered, and the mate,
with a handy revolver, took charge of
the unwanted voyagers. A couple of boat
lengths off the beach they had to jump for
it and swim ashore. At the time a revolu-
tion was in progress, and as they landed a
squadron of cavalry galloped up and sur-
rounded them. We steamed away, but I
heard afterwards that they had the option
of fighting for that particular party or hard
labor in prison.
“H'.S.” : A talkie critic (B. 10/8/’B2), in
enumerating the absurdities of “Prestige,"
overlooked two that are likely to be noticed
first by Frenchmen. The unmarried heroine
travels from Paris to Indo-China by her-
self. An American spinster of her class
would do it, an English girl might, a French
girl couldn’t. Unmarried girls in respect-
able French homes lead lives as sheltered
as any English middle-class miss of the
Victorian era. The other palpable gaffe is
the absence of a priest at the penal settle-
ment. The R.C. Church wouldn’t have per-
mitted that, even if the French Government
had.
“Strict Veg.”: Says a correspondent in
Melbourne “Herald;’ •
If all the young men of Melbourne would take
to wearing a hat once again it would give more work
to our factories and shops. While out last Sunday,
we counted in a short distance 57 men with bare
heads. Why is it?
It is partly due to the difficulty of obtaining
an intelligently-designed hat. The aver-
age felt lid has no ventilation what
ever, or else a few inadequate holes
which the first duststorm reduces to impo-
tence. The buyer who wants a clear head
for thinking is under the necessity of punch-
ing windows in his head-dress himself. Since
I gave up wearing a hat I have sustained a
wet head occasionally, but have otherwise
suffered no serious consequences. There is
also an economic factor. A lot of people
have given up hats because they can’t gfford
to buy them.
* * * *
“Lond.” : Australia’s pet word has reached
London at last. In a current “Punch” an
aristocratic young woman in a hotel refers
quite naturally to the liftboy as a Cow.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Maoris in the King Country
are being married wholesale owing to the
economic conditions. Hitherto many were,
married according to Maori custom, some
for upwards of 30 years, but tin; Unemploy-
ment Board has ruled that applicants for
relief work must produce proper marriage
certificates in order to get a certain number
of days more than the single men. Hence
the Henris and Wirimus and their dusky
consorts are arriving in batches of up to 20
to have the bands of their former com-
panionate marriages riveted a bit more
strongly.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A Melbourne newspaper has been
castigating the talkies for corrupting the Aus-
tralian language by importing slang, although
the very little American slang which has
gone into local currency usually justifies its
existence by its aptness and pungency. No-
thing is said about the degradation of good
English words by the pontiffs of publicity.
“Realism,” “cynicism” and “sophistication”
are amongst the victims of these masters of
imaginative literature. Realism in radio
means exact reproduction. In the films it
means real snow in a picture. According
tu the dictionary a cynic in its modern mean-
ing is a sneering, captious person, a mis-
anthrope, a pessimist. On the fillums it
means an empty-headed flapper, who, after
having a good time on several men’s money,
escapes with her virtue intact into matri-
mony with the handsome hero. A “sophis-
ticated” play observes the same formula.
The remarkable thing is that talkie addicts
know exactly where these signposts will
lead them, just as an illiterate Russian
moujik knows that he will bo able —other
things being equal—to buy . footwear if. he
goes into a shop with a large boot painted
on it.
THE CALL OF THE BARE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
. “This year’s beach fashions include some par-
ticularly daring backless bathing costumes; there
is some speculation whether they will be tolerated
by the authorities, even at surf carnivals.”
—Sydney daily.
O mermaids of Manly and Bondi,
O surf-queens at Coogee that coo,
Fays fain of the glad and the fond eye
Where the sky and the billows are blue,
And your figures deliciously dapple
The setting of sands and of spumes,
To your bosoms, d’you think, will you
grapple
These backless costumes?
How shapeless and drab were the dresses
I conjure from memory’s screens,
Duds donned in the dismal recesses
Of hideous bathing-machines!
Ah, tempora truly mutantur,
And daily we’ve dolorous proof
As all things grow skimpier and scauter—
Inclusive of oof.
When round you the breakers are rippling
Will the rig you array yourself in
Set fancies a-turning to Kipling
Aud Gunga, whose affix was Din?
Twas little sartorial displayment
He had on his body or mind;
Before he was sparing of raiment
And stingier behind.
O Bumbles of Southport and Brighton,
And saints of St. Kilda to boot,
Will youi’ lips disapprovingly tighten
As the billows your Venuses shoot?
Will they laze in the sunshine unchidden,
Alluring the sheiks to their shrine,
With nix ’tween the brim of the lid ’n’
The base of the spine?
O belles of the beach at Balmoral,
O naiads of never-mind-where,
’Twould be queer, ’twould be quaint, should
you quarrel
With the dictum that backs should be
bare.
If your curves and your contours enrapture,
If your ankles arrest, and your arms,
Give a chance to the poets to capture
Your vertebral charms.
O nymphs of the stretches so golden
Which border the bays that are blue,
No mode is so new as the olden,
No fashion so old as the new.
What odds though it rattles the wowsers,
And Grundys should grumble and grieve,
Bethink that, with never a blouse hers,
Bhe was modestly happy in trousers,
Your old Mother Eve.
ŵ
IFORD.


AN UNBIASED OPINION
“The Automobile Engineer” (London), official organ of the Institution
of Automobile Engineers in an article on Modern Fuels states: —
. Competition has compelled other petrol producers to adopt like methods of
control , hut the fact remains that SHELL MOTOR SPIRIT sets a standard of
quality not only in this country but throughout the world.**
—"Automobile Engineer,” Dec., 1931.
INSTANT starting SHELL INSTANT ACCELERATION
THE SHELL COMPANY LIMITED
51297
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Thomas Trumble, Defence liaison officer in
London, is to retire in a few months after
41 years in the civil service. A Wesley Col-
lege boy, he began in Victoria; shifting to
ihe Commonwealth service he rose to be sec-
retary of the Defence Department before
he was moved to the High Commissioner’s
office. The family name looms large in Aus-
tralian cricket annals, but. Thomas’s recrea-
tion is golf. He hasn’t long turned 60.
Paddy Whelan, who claims to have
located another Kalgoorlie in the Livesey
ranges of AVestralia, and has found a lot of
hard-headed business men to back him, was
born in Pretoria some 50 years ago. With
bis father, he left the Transvaal in 1898
and went to Southern Cross in Westralia,
the pair subsequently transferring to Cool-
gardie. Whelan has chased the elusive ’weight
practically all his life and from one end of
Groperland to the other, but the present is
bis first promising strike. He took a holi-
day from prospecting when he spent two
years in France with the 28th Batt. A.I.F.
E. G. Bonney, who has been chief of staff
at Melb. “Herald,” has been appointed
editor of Adelaide “News.” Coming from
Sydney, Bonney joined the “Argus” in 1917
and rose from reporter to leader-writer.
Then he was news editor on the “Evening
Sun” and after the decease of that sheet he
passed over to the “Herald”-“Sun-Pic.” com-
bination. As general president of the A.J.A.
lie put in some good work for inkyway-
farers a dozen years ago
. Westralia’s newest holder of the ancient
and honorable Parliamentary job of Black
Rod is Luke Leake, one of a family that
loomed large in public affairs for half a cen-
tury at least. Luke’s father was George
Leake. Premier, who died in office 80 years
ago; his grandfather Was a notable police,
magistrate and Judge; and his great-uncle
was Speaker of the old Legislative Council
for 20 years in the pre-Forrest: era. The
just-appointed officer is a lawyer, and saw
service in the war.
Harold Parkyn Williams, who has been
appointed general manager for the new
Broadcasting Commission at £2,000 p.a.,
was born at Ipswich (Q.) 51 years ago.
lie touched the fringe of one or two trades
before turning to journalism; he was once
secretary to knight William McMillan, a
former N.S.W. Treasurer. As an inky-
wayfarer he became editor of the Bathurst
“National Advocate,” and later of its rival
sheet, the Bathurst “Times.” Coming to
and ran it for a decade. The Farmers and
Sydney in 1910 he founded “The Land”
Settlers’ Assoc, sent him to Canada, U.S.A.
and the Argentine to report on the chances
H. P. WILLIAMS , man of many parts, and
now general manager for the Broadcasting
Commission.
of creating world wheat pools. He had
another trip abroad for the Australian
Meat Council and it was while he was in
America and Europe that broadcasting be-
gan to engross him. On returning to Aus-
tralia he joined 2FC and became assistant
manager; when the A.B.C. took over the
A stations Williams was made news director
and editor of publications. His voice is
familiar in thousands of country home-
steads and his way of handling the daily
news will take a lot of beating.
W. J. Griffin, who died in Sydney last week
at 54. came of a family widely known in
N.S.W. and Southern Queensland. He was
a fine cricketer in his younger days and a
member of the Paddington eleven when
Trumper and Noble adorned it. Business
interests took him to Queensland, and he
dropped out of the game. Few men had a
greater capacity for making friends.
Knight Hubert Murray—his full names
are John Hubert Plunkett —at present in
Sydney from his kingdom of Papua, can
claim one unassail-
able record: he
was the first Aus-
tralian Governor of
the first Australian
dependency. Born
in Sydney in 1861,
when his father,
Sir Terence Mur-
ray, was President
of'the N.S.W. Leg-
islative Council, he
is four years older
than his famous
brother Gilbert,
Regius Professor
of Greek at Oxford.
Hubert’s education
began at Sydney
Grammar and
end e d with a
double-first at Mag-
dalen, Oxford ; he
was called to the
Bar, and returned
to Australia to
practise, becoming
a Crown Prosecu-
tor and acting as
District Court.
Judge. A, keen
amateur soldier, he
served in South
Africa in 1900-
1901, and wa s
appointed Chief
Judicial Officer in
Papua in 1904. He
became Acting-
Admini str&tor
after the Royal
Commission into
the government of
Papua in 1907,
and Lt.-Governor a
year later. A
HUBERT MUR-
RAY, clown in
Sydney for the
Science Congress.
high authority on native administration, he
has been a prominent figure at some of the
world’s scientific congresses, and has pub-
lished two important books on Papua and
the Papuans.
After a long struggle against t.b., the
result of war injuries, Captain George Bur-
kett died at the Randwick Military Hos-
pital last week. He was a doomed man for
years and knew it, but he pluckil.v stuck to
Iris job with Morris Motors until a few
months ago. Captain Burkett got his first
taste of fighting in S’Africa with the W.A.
Bushman’s Contingent; he served with the
10th Light Horse in the Great War and, after
being invalided home, was appointed secre-
tary of the State Recruiting Committee and.
later, Inspector of Recruiting for the Com-
monwealth. A forceful speaker lie did ex-
cellent work.
Gippsland will miss its best-known vet-
eran, Charles Napper, who has gone west
at 95. He had been a successful station-
owner, and a noted breeder of Hereford
cattle and Shropshire sheep since 1862,
and he was a keen municipal worker as well.
His father left Somerset in the ’fifties to
manage, a Tasmanian station.
All Wonthaggi, Vic.’s black-coal settle-
ment, mourned George Broome, general man-
ager of the State mine, who passed out last
week after a short illness. When the Murray
Government decided in 1909 to open Up the
mine. Broome, who applied from Maoriland,
was chosen as manager by Peter Mcßride,
the Minister. It was largely the thorough-
ness with which Broome marshalled his
qualifications that appealed to Peter;
it took a small volume to hold them
all. The choice proved a good one; for-
tunately for Broome’s peace of mind the mine
was placed under the control of the Railway
Commissioners 21 years ago, so that he
always had a buffer between him and Gov-
ernments. He served the public well, gave
the men a fair deal, and dodged the limelight.
The appointment of Harold Stewart to
succeed L. A. Adamson as headmaster of
Wesley College, Melbourne, was a foregone
conclusion. Stewart is an old boy, and has
been Adamson’s deputy for 20 years. He
took his M.A. degree at Melbourne Uni. in
1889.
Senator Hal Colebatch w r as always a first-
rate journalist—he once edited a Perth daily
• —and since he arrived in Federal politics four
years ago his signature has become familiar
in the dailies of at least four capitals. From
State rights to sugar wrongs there are few
controversial topics on which Westralia’s ex-
Agent-General cannot write forcibly and tell-
ingly; he has a rare faculty for making the
best of a case, whatever it is. Colebatch
took to politics comparatively late, and he
rather surprised his friends when he proved
quite as effective on the platform as with
pen and ink. His speeches are always care-
fully prepared, and the faint West of Eng-
land burr which he brought with him from
Herefordshire has a certain piquancy. In
his lighter moments he has a fine turn of
skill at bridge and is probably the best chess-
player among Australian politicians.
Ross Kenneth Macartney, who died in
Hampshire the other day, was a Melb. Uni.
engineering graduate whose calling took him
all over the world. He began his construc-
tion and metallurgical w r ork in Tasmania 25
years ago; from the Bischoff tin-mine ne
went to Cornwall to erect and operate con-
centration plants. Rhodesia called him next,
and he put in 10 years as manager of the
Rhodesian Broken Hill Development Co.
Latterly he was a consulting engineer in
London, and a director of Burma tin-mines.
He paid a visit to Australia a few years
back.
Dapper little J. C. L. Fitzpatrick never
realised his ambition—he wanted to be
Speaker of the N.S.W. Assembly. The tra-
gedy of his life was that he jested too easily.
Dr. H. C. Garde, who has gone over in
Maryborough (Q.) at 77, began to prac-
tise in the sugar town as long ago as
1.879, fresh from his native Cork. He dabbled
for a time in politics, and sat for Mary-
borough during one Parliament, but his real
interests outside his profession Jay in the
breeding of high-class horses and cattle at
his Tandora stud. He was resident sur-
geon at Maryborough Hospital when war
broke out in 1914, and less than a year later
went to the front, serving in Egypt and
Saloniea. A fine old sportsman, he had a
wide and varied circle of acquaintances.
A link with the early droving days was
snapped with' the death of James Richard
Skuthorpe in the Toowoomba (Q.) Hospital.
He was born at Enfield (Sydney) close on
100 years ago, and early took to the droving
and bush life, where he earned a great repu-
tation as a rider and stockman. Lanc(f Sku-
thorpe, proprietor of the buckjumping con-
cern, is a son.
Lieut. Cyril Thompson, M.G., who lias
passed out at Randwick, was little past 50
but had seen service in two wars. He was
still in his ’teens when he was wounded in
South Africa. One of the earliest to enlist
in 1914, he was on Gallipoli and in some of
the fiercest fighting in France, He won his
decoration at Pozieres, when all the officers
of his unit were killed or wounded and the
leadership devolved upon him.
C. H. Perrin, chief engineer of Vic. rail-
way construction branch, retires at the end
of the year. Apart from building lines, he
bossed the construction of Spencer-street
bridge and the reconditioning of Hawthorn
brdge. Because of the discontinuance of
railway construction the branch is being dis-
solved.
Walter Edmunds, Judge of the N.S.W.
District Court for many years, and of the
Arbitration Court later, is dead in Sydney.
Assemblymen hold him in grateful remem-
brance; he it was who reported that their
salaries should be raised to £875 p.a. That
The late EDMUNDS, J.
was one of the several occasions on which
he was called upon to act as Royal Commis-
sioner; one of his biggest jobs was the in-
quiry he conducted into the administration
of the Ma State’s railways and tramways.
Quiet, reserved and scholarly, he had reached
76 when the end came.
Jim Ryan, once known to Bulletin read-
ers as “Narranghi Boori,” passed out the
other day in New York. Jim was a brother
to Marie Narelle, the Irish-Australian
singer, and a versatile Bohemian. As well
as being a writer, he was a successful actor,
touring through the United States in “The
Silver King.” A play of his, an adapta-
tion of a clever French farce, was put on
privately at a New York theatre some 15
years ago. The theatre was filled with
friends of the genial Jim and his very charm-
ing sister, and the friends gave it an en-
thusiastic reception, but it never reached the
commercial stage. It is many years since
Ryan visited these shores, though his sister
returned here not long ago for a brief visit.
Colonel H.
C. Brinsmead
Controller of
Civil Aviation
in Australia,
seriously in-
jured last De-
cern be r, is
still und e r-
going treat-
ment at Rand-
wick for spina I
and nerve troubles.
Col. Brinsmead
was a passenger in
the Australian air-
mail liner South-
ern Sun, which
crashed at Alor
Star (Malay
States) in Novem-
ber. lie escaped
with slight injuries
on that occasion
and booked a pas-
sage to his destina-
tion by the Dutch
air mail. This
craft nose-dived
into a rice held
while taking off at
Donmuang in Siam
on December II;
five, of her passen-
gers were killed
and Col. Brinsmead
was very badly
hurt. He remain-
ed in Bangkok Hos-
pital until it was
th on ght. adv isa ble
to bring him back
to Australia, and
he has put up a
Colonel BRIN SMBAD,
who is still suffering
from the effects of his
crash in Siam.
game fight for life ever since.
All Dimbdola (Vic.) turned out for the
obsequies of Pellam Cameron. He was the
son of a Wimmera station-owner and a prin-
cess of the Lake Hindmarsh tribe, and be wa«
regarded as an authority on the folklore of
bis mother’s people. He stood over six feet
in bis boots, was a leading cricketer and
a great sport generally. He was 79 when
he went to join his ancestors.
W. 11. Edgar recently completed 10 years'
service as Chairman of Committees of Vic.
Upper House. Only one man has held the job
longer, Dr. Stanley Dobson, who had 12
years’ tenure. Since he was first elected to
the Leg. Council 28 years ago, Edgar has
bad but one rebuff; be failed to hold
Melbourne West in 1919 when he was
Health and Works Minister under William
Watt, and had to wait a few years until
East Yarra adopted him.
Died in Melbourne last week, Charles
O’Connor, a. son of the great engineer to
whom Westralia owes so much and in whose
honor Fremantle has erected one of its very
few statues. Not that he needed one, for
the harbor on which he looks down is one of
his monuments—it is 40 years since the
wife of the then Governor tilted the first
load of stones to form the massive break-
water—and the Goldfields Water Supply, an
engineering feat known the world over, is the
other. It was John Forrest who outlined
the latter scheme, but it was ,0. Y. O'Connor
who translated it into fact, although he never
lived to see its actual fulfilment.
“Form, form, riflemen, form,” might well
have been the family motto of Edward John
Browne, who has died at Granville (Syd-
ney) at 73. He was a Parramatta native; his
father, Dr. William Browne, founded the
first company of the old Parramatta Volun-
teer Rifles. The son’s interest in volun-
teering and marksmanship was just as keen
and sustained; he was chairman of the
National Rifle Association for 25 years,
and an 0.8. E. came his way. He was
a Parramatta alderman for nearly 30 years.
“Old Q.”; There is some confusion of
Joneses in that par. (B. 10/8/’B2) re
appointments of ex-Pa rliainentaria ns to
Queensland Government billets. The Arthur
Jones who goes to the Department of Labor
and Industry was member for Burke. The
Jones who w r as Minister for Mines under
McCormack, and unsuccessfully tried to win
the Hamilton seat for Labor at the recent
elections, has not been provided for.
Reprints on art paper of Norman Lind-
say’s excellent page cartoon in this issue
will be forwarded to any address in
Australia or N.Z. on receipt of 6d. to
cover postage and wrapping.


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the most significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.”
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is payable in monthly instal-
ments during the balance of a period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid also to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens*
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
ẃ
BELTING for Long Service
'T'IIE many long-service records established
A by Pioneer Leather Belting justify its
specification for the hardest and most diffi-
cult drives. There is no guesswork when
you buy Pioneer Belting, because there is a
special grade to suit each type of drive and
every working condition. For many years
of dependable service specify 1
PIONEER blltiwg*
Made and guaranteed since 1858 by
J. C. LUDOWICI &L SON
LIMITED
117 York Street, Sydney, and 20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND: HOEY FRY. LTD.. 170 EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: J. Me KELL & SONS, 129 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: MR. HORACE SUMMERS* 9-11. HOWARD STREET. PERTH.
TASMANIA: CIIAS. DAVIS, LTD., 60 ELIZABETH STREET. HOBART.
NEW ZEALAND: G. W. ARNOLD, LTD., A.M.P. CHAMBERS, WELLINGTON.
EXPLOSIVES
ADD KINDS STOCKED.
Sole Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary
goods by rail or steamer at
usual rates of freight.
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers of all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast-
ing Machines, Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
iO-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
The
WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
Dividends, Written Re-
June, Profits. Ordinaries.* Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
Premiums on new shares, £14,934.. ( ..
1923.-. 234,418 15 p.c. = 52,081 10,000 )
Premiums on new shares, £158,051.. ( ... qr ,
1924.. 264,542 15 p.c. = 57,732 10,000 )
Premiums on new shares, £233,876.. (
1925.. 300,536 15 p.c. = 87,102 10,000 ) *’ J<
Premiums 011 new shares, £204,917.. ( , ~,
1926. . 319,707 15 p.c. =119,359 20,000 )
Premiums on new shares, £233,328. . 1,299,469
1927.. 341,711 15 p.c. =149,726 25,000 1,381,760
Premiums on new shares, £254,338. . 1,636,098
1928.. 355,019 15 p.e. =185,937 30,000 1,690,486
Premiums on new shares, £250,212.. 1,940,698
1929.. 391,624 15 p.c.. =223,438 30,000 1,994,190
Premiums on new shares, £237,149.. 2,231,339
1930.. 389,841 15 p.c. =260,937 20,000 2,255,549
Premiums on new shares, £76,600.. 2,332,149
1931.. 308,450 11} p.c,=220,569 20,000 2,315,336
Exchange adjust, reserve, £250,000.. 2,065,336
1932.. 199,670 5 p.c. =lOO,OOO 10,000 2,070,312
•Prefs. have had 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
As the eye sweeps down the column devoted to
dividends one is apt to get the impression that
the business has been highly profitable,
whereas only moderate returns have been
won. Since 1920 —before that there was a
long dry spell, during which the manage-
ment very thoroughly puttied up the cracks
which the upheaval of the ’nineties had put
in the structure —shareholders have sub-
scribed £3,808,682, one-lialf capital and the
other half premiums. Actually, therefore,
the divs. are worth no more than half
the declared rate on most of the £2.000,000
of ord. capital; there is also £2,117,350
of 4 p.c. pref. money. another re-
minder of the ’nineties. The nominal 15
p.c. divs., which the share premiums made
inevitable, kept the scrip at a high figure
on the market, thus facilitating the gather-
ing of fresh capital—the new issues were in
the nature of a bonus to shareholders.
But as the slump got stumpier the risks
increased and earnings shrank. During
the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, the reduction of 1 p.c. or more
in the charge for overdrafts, etc., was only
partly offset by cuts in prices paid for new
deposits, which continue to expand. But
on the average the margin here should
improve slightly as old deposit contracts
at the old rates run out. Also there
was a cut of 22} p.c. in returns from Con-
sols and of 33} p.c. from Treasury bills, and
less business was handled in the exchange
market. Though the Commonwealth Bank
is obliged to .buy all sterling offered at the
carded rate, the Commercial has sent
£250.600 of its visible accumulation to inner
reserves to guard against possible fluctua-
tions in the price. After providing for
other contingencies, there was a slip of
£184.081 in gross earnings :
Gross Profits.* Salaries. Other Charges.
1919 .. £405,071 £170,558 £64,245
1927 .. 992,451 478,533 172.207
1928 .. 1,056,244 523,484 177,741
1929 .. 1,138,028 560,009 186,395
1930 .. 1.157,784 584,559 183,384
1931 .. 1,078,773 597,342 172,981
1932 . . 893,792 552,998 141,124
*Less taxes and provision for contingencies.
Exes, were pulled back £76,201, leaving
enough to pay the pref. div. (£84,694) and
show 5.7 p.c. ord. capital. So the div.,
which had dropped from 15 p.c. to 11} p.c.
in 1931, was lowered to 5 p.e.
At 15s. 9d. the fully-paid 10s. ords. return
3.1 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis, or 5.1 p.c.
on an S p.c. distribution. The pref. div. and
8 p.c. to the ords. would call for 3.9 p.c.
on total funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) at .Tune 30, whereas the year’s net
profit was 3.2 p.c. on these funds as against
4.7, 6.5. 7.1 and 7.9 p.c. back to 1928. The
£lO paid 4 p.c. prefs. are priced at £7 125.;
at which figure they return 5.3 p.c.
The financial strength and other things are
seen in this comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—•
Liabilities.
1929. 1931. 1932.
Kotos .. .. £244,027 £184,082 £178,351
Bills, etc. .. 1,717,110 1,161,752 1,053,970
Free deposits. . 10,182,121 7,263,707 7,624,925
Fixed deposits 13,998,925 13,590,078 14,076,684
Assets.
Liquid assets.. 8,933,551 8,405,916 8,984,799
Advances 22,260,876 19,260,841 19,412,158
Premises .. 904,300 1,107,896 1,116,980
The extra deposits gathered during the year,
and a lot more besides, were invested in Com-
monwealth and Maoriland Treasury bills
(£2,729,166, up £1,429,166). When the
books closed 39.1 p.c. of the liabilities to the
public was held liquid, and for every pound
of its own the bank was holding £3 14s. of
outside money. It is a strong position, but
it means low-earning power.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
June, £ £ £ £
K J "Provident 2 Fund, P ‘ C £lo.ooo 72 ° j 26,052 667,280
Internal reserves disclosed, £109,650.. 746,939
1923.. 1 ? 1 ' 006 12^P- R - = 109,650 J 36,356 783,295
Provident Fund, £15,000 )
Reserves capitalised, £109,650 .. 673,645
Premiums on new shares, £11.440 .. 685,085
1924.. 206,994 10 p.c. = 109,342 ) 99 65 , 777737
Provident Fund, £5OOO 5
Premiums on new shares, £16,000.. 793,<37
1925.. 205,151 10 p.e. = 133,200 71,951 865,638
1920.. 214,058 10 „ „ i 61,040 53,018 918,700
1927.. 223,123 10 „ „ 175,680 47,443 966,149
Premiums on new shares, £98,110.. 1,064,259
1928.. 252,346 10 p.c. = 204,995 47,351 1,111,610
Premiums on new shares, £115,044.. 1,226,654
1929.. 227,106 10 p.c. = 208,102 19,004 1,245,658
1930.. 128,724 5 „ „ 119,682 9,042 1,254,700
1931.. 99,820 4 ~ „ 95,745 4,075 1,258,775
Transferred to depreciation reserve,
£165,044 1,093,731
1932.. 102,099 4 p.c. = 95,745 6,954 1,100, 6S;j
In S. A us. there was a heavier clip, well
grown and sound, and Elder Smith handled
much of it. All extra 24,074 bales, making-
-197,954 in all, were put under the hammer,
and they averaged £9 6s. 3d. as against £8
12a. 7d. for the previous year. Thus
£347,434 was added to the State’s wool
cheque, raising it to £1,847,945, but that was
not much more than one-third of the 1927-28
figure. Hence it has become impossible to
estimate definitely the present value of pas-
toral and other properties, while many who
had borrowed heavily from the co. to fight
drought (it broke early in 1930) find them-
selves embarrassed by these advances. So
the board has taken £165,044 from visible
accumulations to strengthen the co.’s shock-
absorbers, the inner reserves. Incidentally,
the Commonwealth Government has ap-
pointed a committee to investigate the con-
dition of the industry and devise means of
relieving it.
Something was also set aside for con-
tingencies out of the year’s gross earn-
ings,l which were also affected by the cut in
interest rates:—
Paid Gross
Capital. Earnings. Expenses.
1910 .. £300,000 £144,260 £84,738
1920 .. 877,200* 462,451 318,476
1926 . . 1,756,800-f 652,260 438,202
1928 . . 2,050,320 733,162 480,816
1929 .. 2,393,640 704,286 477,180
1930 .. 2,393,640 569,121 440,397
1931 .. 2,393,640 458,686 358,866
1932 . . 2,393,640 421,057 318,358
•Includes £120,000 of reserves capitalised from here,
tlncludes £229,650 of reserves capitalised from here.
Thus, after openly striking £10,042 off the
book value of premises and plant, gross earn-
ings slipped £37,629; exes, were £40,508
lighter. So the net result was 4.2 p.c. on
capital as against 4.1, 5.3, 10.9, 12.3, 12.7,
13.3 and 15.4 p.c. back to 1925. The per-
sistent slip is due to the inflow of new capi-
tal and then slump.
The div., which had been steady at 10
p.c. (with a bit extra in the fat periods)
for 24 years to the close of accounts in
1929, dropped to 5 p.c. in 1930, and then
to 4 p.c. Td pay 4 p.c. on capital as it
now stands total funds (capital and re-
serves combined) need net only 2.7 p.c.
Widespread rains have assured another good
season in S. Aus. and exchange has provided
a much-needed bonus to producers, who got
a little further relief from financial-emer-
gency legislation. Also, wool prices are a
trifle firmer, though the position in Germany
makes the market outlook uncertain.
Balance-sheet figures exhibit a sound
financial structure, as they always have
done
1920. 1926. 1931. 1932.
Deposits, £ £ £ £
etc. . . 2,201,305 1,971,052 1,482,899 1,420,672
Other lia-
bilities .. 65,587 73,331 1,916 13,787
Property, pre-
mises, plant
etc. .. 278,598 446,622 658,174 561,588
Gov ernment
•stock and
cash .. 1,456,515 1,284,421 723,368 857,309
A d v a nces,
etc. . . 2,016,536 3,110,943 4,085,616 3,784,245
Other assets 62,630 158,317 58,155 38,249
The year’s reduction of £301,371 in the book
value of advances is due partly to the
strengthening of inner reserves already re-
ferred to. When the books closed depositors
uiul others, excluding the provident fund
(£264,735), could see 12s. 6d. of every 20s.
coming t 0 them in cash and readily-realis-
able securities. Each pound of the balance
plus the provident fund was covered by
advances with a book value of £4 14s. 2d.,
and freehold premises, which cost £642,357,
in at £529,781.
The £lO shares paid to £6 are priced at
£6 2s. on the market as against £5 Bs. a
year ago. They are covered by net tangibles
with a book value of £8 15s. 2d.
Millaquin Sugar Co.
To Re-
Juno, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 64,025 8 p.c. = 40,000 24,025 142,,8.1
1923.. 71,338 12 „ „ 60,000 11,333 154,114
1924.. 48,249 8 „ „ 40,000 8,249 162,363
1925.. 71,023 12 „ „ 60,000 11,020 173,389
1926.. 71,656 12 „ „ 60,000 11,650 155.045
1927.. 51,784 10 „ „ 50,000 1,784 186,829
1928.. 59,849 10 „ „ 50,000 9,849 196,678
1929.. 62,428 10 „ „ 50,000 12,428 209,106
1930.. 62,657 9 „ „ 45,000 17,657 226,763
1931.. 65,251 9 „ „ 45,000 20,251 247,014
1932.. 66,195 9 „ „ 45,000 21,195 268,209
Snugly financed aud with everything right on
the technical side this Bundaberg milling
aud refining concern—-it took over the sugar
interests which fell into the Q. N. Bank’s
hands in the ’nineties —is well equipped to
harvest whatever profits are to be had from
the industry. The refinery treats about
12,500 tons of raws per annum, equal to a
little over two-thirds of..the co.’s own mill
output, and approximately 4 p.c. of the total
sugar refined in the Commonwealth. Under
agreement with the Queensland Government
the co. receives £5 19s. per ton for stacking
(55.), refining and distributing (£4 3s. od.),
selling (75.) and for management, deprecia-
tion, etc. (235. 6d.). .This enables it to
earn only moderate returns on the book
value of the refinery, the Sugar Inquiry Com-
mittee says.
However, the 7 p.c. cut in wages at
the end of 1930 helped to push costs
back, and, on the milling side, large
tonnages and increased efficiency have
helped. So, after striking off £21,649 for
depreciation, and despite a drop of 265. 7d.
in the estimated average price of raws (£lB
6s. 6d.), the board wrote last year’s nel
profit at 13.2 p.c. on the half-million of capi-
tal as against 13, 12.5. 12.4, 11.9 and 10.2
p.c. back to 1927. The div. was kept at
8 p.c. and the bonus at 1 p.c.. making 9 pc.
for the year, and an average of 10.1 p.c. over
the last decade.
The financial position was further
strengthened:—
1923. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. .. £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Sundry creditors .. 123,475 93,122 112,471
Freeholds, refinery, etc. 335,246 367,143 350,584
Plantation, etc 72,512 65,649 63,932
Railways and tramways 48,271 39,675 39,306
Stocks 144,122 80,829 91,694
Book debts .. .. 43,520 14,145 12,400
Investments .. .. 65,374 232,555 276,474
Cash 108,544 65,139 71,290
Thus when the books last closed the more
or less liquid surplus (£339,387, including
stocks) was £39,801 stronger than at tin-
previous balance. Investments consist of fixed
deposits, £110,000; shares in the Bundaberg
Distilling Co., £64.951; other shares, £2223.
Assuming that these turn in 3} p.c. net, then
the mills and refinery need to show 6.1 p.c.
on capital to cover an 8 p.c. div.
A dry spell and frosts in the Bundaberg
district have spoilt 'much of the current
season’s crop, and the co.’s net earn-
ings may be expected to suffer. Also
a reduction in the price of sugar is
impending. The Government, which has
rejected the growers’ offer, whatever it
amounted to, considers that a cut of Id. per
pound in the retail price (now 4}d.) "would
be a fair thing. This is equal to £4 13s. 4d.
per ton. Leaving the retailer out of the
reckoning, it means about £22 ss. per ton for
raws refined for home consumption as against
£26 19s. last year. Assuming that the cur
rent season’s outturn of raws will be 540,000
tons, and that 40 p.c. of it will be exported
and will realise £9 10s. per ton as against
£9 7s. last year, then the average return
to the miller and grower for the whole crop
would be about £l7 6s. per ton.
The market prices Millaquin’s pound
shares at 265. 6d. as against 225. a year ago.
At the higher figure the return is 6.8 p.c.
on a 9 p.c. div. basis, or 6 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
distribution. The backing is 30s. 9d. in
net tangibles, of which 12s. 9d. is surplus
liquids.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
, Added Capital
Net to Re- and Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1922.. 30,562 10 p.e. = 30,305 257 339,370
1923.. 18,305 7} „ „ 22,733 334,942
Assets written up, £56,950.. .. 391,892
1924.. 35,681 10 p.c. = 30,311 5,370 397.262
From inner reserves, £BOOO .. 405,262
1925.. 39,092 10 p.c. = 30,311 8,781 414,043
1926.. 46,113 10 ~ ~ 30,311 15,802 429,845
Premiums on shares and profit on
sale of freehold, £71,583.. 501,428
New capital, £30,640 .. .. 532,068
1927.. 51,012 10 p.c. = 33,375 17,637 549,705
1928.. 42,214 10 „ ~33,375 8,839 558,544
New capital, £44,000 .. .. 602,544
Share premium, £ll,OOO .. .. 613,544
1929.. 47,935 10 p.c. = 40,000 7,935 621,479
1930.. 39,758 10 „ „ 40,000 621,237
Loss.
1931.. 4,053 3 „ „ 12,000 605,184
Profit.
1932.. 12,795 3 „ ~ 12,000 795 605,979
At June 30 the Mercantile had £412,942
net invested in premises and £345,614 in
Commonwealth and other securities. The
lot turned in £22,203 (=5.5 p.c. on capital),
or £6697 less than in the previous year. Also
slump has caused such rapid evaporation of
insurable value that it has not been pos-
sible to pull exes, back in proportion to tin*,
drop in premium income. Hence the year's
underwriting resulted in a loss of £9408
compared with a loss of £32,953 in 1931.
The business as a whole showed a net profit
equal to 3.8 p.c. on capital as against a
loss (£4053) and then profits of 9.9, 11.9.
12.6 and 15.2 p.c. back to 1927. So the
div. was kept at 3 p.c., making the average
over tire last decade 8.3 p.c.
Underwriting performances, upon which
shareholders’ prospects mainly depend, have
■behaved in this way since the beginning of
this century:—
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, peases. Kate. Rate.
1900. . £32,058 £9,068 £18,489 27.7 p.c. 56.4 p.c.
1910.. 64,515 21,656 35,078 35.1 ~ 56.8 „
1920.. 177,683 67,212 94,083 37.8 „ 52.9 „
1925.. 357,188 186,834 147,901 62.3 „ 41.4 „
1926.. 374,560 200,835 155,476 53.6 „ 41.5 „
1927.. 428,008 245,025 156,923 57.2 ~ 36.6 ~
1928.. 389,950 211,676 160,894 54.3 ~ 41.2 „
1929.. 362,167 198,925 143,963 54.9 ~ 39.8 ~
1930.. 362,202 194,895 157,446 53.8 „ 43.5
1931.. 297,000 191,393 138,560 64.4 „ 46.6 ..
1932. . 243,280 130,130 122,558 53.5 „ 50.3 ~
Last year the co. pulled out of the unsatis-
factory London marine market, where busi-
ness had been very unprofitable. The with-
drawal and the shrinkage in motor-car anti
workers’ compensation business were respon-
sible for the contraction of £53,720 in tin-
year’s net premiums, making the slip
£118,922 over the last two years. The with-
drawal is again reflected in a drop of £lO
18s. per cent, in the loss rate; but exes, made
off with an extra £3 14s. per cent, of the
net premiums, notwithstanding that savings
amounting to £16,002 were effected during
the year.
The. market, which notes that the figures
have improved,. that the company enjoys
a high reputation, built up during over
half a century’s careful trading, and
that £152,250 of its £400,000 of capital
has been transferred from reserves (now
£205,979), prices the pound shares paid to
10s. at 16s. 6d. as against 12s. 3d. early in
May. The backing is 245. 3d. in net tan
gibles.
When the books closed policy-holders, who
have always been well protected, could sec
net tangibles equal to 250 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually
considered adequate. Moreover, the funds
are invested in good-quality assets:—■
1926. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £303,110 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Liabilities .. 121,644 244,297 202,668 191,091
Freeholds . . 231,563 411,400 412,968 412,942
Mortgages .. 17,204 18,376 19,256 18.959
Investments . . 241,611 358,101 319,963 326,625
Book debts .. 69,645 79,974 67,614 57,211
Cash, etc. .. 27,077 .26,184 6,051 552
The fine new headquarters which the co.
built itself in Pitt-street, Sydney, a few
years ago are well tenanted; but rents arc
down, and are not likely to rise again for
some time. The outside debt, for which
the new building was largely responsible, is
well covered by liquids—it was reduced by
£11,577 net last year.
Victoria Palace, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1922.. 14,462 20 p.c. = 11,700. 2762 7,709
1923.. 13,197 20 „ „ 11,700 1497 9.206
1924.. 12,426 17} „ „ 11,133 1293 10,499
1925. . 16,034 17} ~ „ 15,400 634 11,133
1926.. 18,793 17} „ „ 15,400 3393 14,526
Premiums on shares, £4400 .. 18,926
Struck off plant, £3500 .. .. 15,426
1927.. 19,760 20 p.e. = 18,602 1158 16,584
Premiums on shares, £17,600 .. 34,184
1928.. 19,975 17} p.c. = 19,015 960 35,144
Premiums on shares, £30,800 .. 65,944
1929.. 24,432 15 p.c. = 21,010 3422 69,366
June, Premiums on shares, £4400 .. 73,766
1930*. 11,887 15 p.c. = 11,770 117 73,883
Premiums on shares, £BBOO .. 82.083
Written off, £6OOO .. .. .. 76,683
1931.. 14,275 10 p.c. = 17,380 —73,57 s
1932.. 13,064 7 „ „ 12,320 744 74,322
•Half-year.
When this co.’s old Collins-street lease fell
in about six years ago some feared the worst,
and urged that the business be wound up.
Instead the board secured another lease (it
has about 59 years still to run), put up
a nine-storeyed building thereon (capacity
800 guests), and went into the cafeteria
business as well. Here no rent is paid; the
co. spent £5OOO on the first and ground
floors, occupied by the vendor, the Baptist
Church. Earnings responded as space be-
came available, and it was hoped to stabilise
the div. at 15 p.c. But slump intervened,
and it was not possible to get exes, baek
in proportion to the drop in revenue:—
Exes. p.c.
Dec., Revenue. Exes, of Revenue.
1925.. £76,072 £60,038 78.9
1926.. 83 308 64,515 77.4
1927.. 94,844 75,084 79.1
1928.. 107,075 87,100 81.3
1929.. 133,483 109,051 81.7
June,
1930*. 68,975 57,088 82.7
1931.. 114,573 100,298 87.5
1932.. 102,821 89,757 87.3
•Half-year.
Thus the slip in takings over the last 2}
years was £30,662. of which £11,752 was
in respect of the 12 months covered by the
(Continued on page 16.)


i K
A II
- ' I
I
~\l
a nm
si |f^<jn
mr .ilHfaj
thui
m
a
. *
m
j
i
O'
m
IK j±
O. O
VA 111
4J
ny
%u
■ A
/
1
\ V
hi i r
rv
WZ'
" .tllUl
cp
/
J
X
D
u
-—to know that MEGGITT LIMITED
have built up an industry that is as important
to the Primary Producer in Australia as to the
Secondary Industries such as Paint, Varnish
and Linoleum.
Every ton of MEGGITT’S MEAL
used to feed Dairy Cows, Pigs or Poultry
returns a profit to the user.
Remember when you are using Linseed
Oil for painting, if you use MEGGITT’S
you increase employment to Australians in an
industry which is worth maintaining.
OB.MUI
m
cAte&gitt
HEAD OFFICE ASBESTOS HOUSE .YORK i BARRACK STS
CYnNFV —. _ _
Works-. Parraroatra.N.S-W Melbourne.Vlc Port Adelaide. S.A
BOX 1555. E C.P.Q
main
Works: Parramatta (N.S.W.), Melbourne (Vic.) and Adelaide (S.A.).
Offices and Agents in All States.


“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY"
FOR AUGUST,
NOW ON SALE.
Millions of pounds have been
invested in forestry.
What returns are bondholders likely
to get?
Ottawa and the Market.
Should nrices be raised to
1928 levels?
These and many other questions of
vital interest to investors are dis-
cussed in the August issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEK ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,'
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-SI.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores, Silver and Silver Ores
Gold and Silver Bullion. Copper Ores. Copper Precipitates. Scran Cod
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS of Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate
(Bluestone). ouipuaie
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to anv of the
Company’s offices, viz.
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, NSW
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or
Port Kembla Office. The company will realise it on your account at current
London prices plus exchange, and will issue you a certificate to enable vou
to collect the Gold Bounty.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
Head
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motoi
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops,
Car, Plate-glass
Hailstone, etc.,
Guarantee, Crops, Stacks,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Street, Melbourne.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free , on request.
O. E. FRIEND
CECIL H DOYLE
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
Directors:
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman}
THOS. BUCKLAND
J. H. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital £8,780,000
Reserve Fund 6,150,000
Reserve Liability 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 “ £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
latest accounts, when exes, were got back
£10,541. leaving the net result at 7.4 p.c.
on capital as against 8.3, 15.1, 17.4, 18.3
and 21.3 p.c. back to 1927. So another
three points were knocked off the div., reduc-
ing it to 7 p.c., and it is doubtful whether
much better than that need be looked for
for a while, notwithstanding that (forget-
ting all about capital jettisoned in the ’nine-
ties and restored by gift issues in ’lB
and ’2O) share premiums make 7 p.c. worth
only 4 p.c. on half, the capital.
There is nothing uneasy about the
finances:—•
Dec., Dec., June, June,
1923. 1928. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £58,500 £127,008 £176,000 £176,000
Mortgages .. 15,000 47,911 45,237 44,051
Other liabilities 5,476 61,718 11,050 6,691
Freehold . . 74,547 158,709 165,403 166,745
Leasehold .. 85,604 105,982 105,262
Plant, etc. .. 13,236 37,289 39,885 37,952
Debtors, cash,
etc. . . 6,249 1,363 3,396 3,426
The mortgage is being gradually worked
down. The floating debt, including some-
thing for taxation, exceeded liquids by
£3266 at .Tune 30, the improvement amount-
ing to £4388 during the twelvemonth. Much
depends upon whether expenditure on re-
placements, etc., charged to earnings, proves
to be sufficient to cover actual wear and
tear.
At 15s. the I.os. paids return 4.7 p.c. on
a 7 p.c. div. basis. Thus, at that price, the
investor who looks for a shade under 54
p.c. on his money counts on an 8 p.c. div.
The. North Co. at the Barrier is making
splendid progress with the remodelling of its
mill. Gravity concentration equipment, such
as jigs and Wilfley tables, has been scrapped
and modern flotation cells installed. The
capacity of the new plant will be 40,000
tons monthly compared with 28,000 tons at
present. The winding engine is being changed
over from steam to electric drive, and the
all-steel fireproof headframe has been com-
pleted. Underground, a crosscut from the
1850 ft. level has penetrated the downward
continuation of rich lead ore developed on
the level above, and the width is now being
determined.
* * * *
Amalgamated Metal Corp., which controls
British Metal Corp., in which the Barrier
cog,, are interested, made a profit of £202,130
for the year to April 30. It paid 3 p.c-. on
the ords. and 6 p.c. on the prefs. Paid capi-
tal is £5,335,000 in 900,000 prefs. and
4,435,000 ords.
Alexander Macdonald writes :
Your correspondent (B. 27/7/’32) says Mt. Wandoo
lias never employed 50 men, and adds that “about
half a dozen has been the number lately.” Before
1 left for London, some few months ago, there
werb over 60 men on the paysheet. During my
absence the number employed has averaged 16;
at present there are 21 employed. The absence of
sufficient water, even for camp needs, made it im-
possible to carry on at full strength, but it is not
anticipated that this handicap will continue much
longer. As for the rich veins being thin, I have
not at any time calculated on the very high assays
obtained from the footwall vein. The ore channel
measures 22ft. in 'the cross-cut at the 130 ft. level,
and that is traversed by four distinct ore-bodies,
varying from one foot to five feet in width. An air-
compressor has been installed, and sinking will be
continued. I spent around £20,000 in developing
Mt. Wandoo and equipping it with a complete
plant before 1 sought any financial assistance from
overseas.
4t 4: 4:
Roma North Oil Co. has turned its atten-
tion to gold-mining, and has acquired an
option over a 12-acre lease on the Cracow
field (Q.). A large formation up to 400 ft.
wide traverses the lease, and three shafts are
being sunk on reefs 2ft. wide. The forma-
tions on this field carry some rich pockets
and vast quantities of low-grade stuff.
❖ *!» j}c
During the last few months a number of
prospectors have been searching for gold at
Lolworth Creek, a few miles wmst of Charters
Towers (N.Q.), with fair results. A number
of claims have been pegged, and the field
promises to become a regular producer of
profitable ore. A five-head battery was
recently erected. The best crushing to date
has been a selected parcel of 21 tons from
the Sunrise for 115 oz. 9dwt. of gold, valued
at £3BO.
*.* * *
In the vicinity of Lyndhurst head station,
in the Georgetown (N.Q.) district, a fairly
rich antimony outcrop, located a few months
ago, is now being worked. On the surface
the lode is 12ft. wide and assays 65.3 p.c.
antimony with traces of arsenic. A contract
lias been entered into with a southern firm
for the supply of 20 tons monthly. There
has been very little antimony ore raised in
Queensland since 1916; from 1873-1916 pro-
duction totalled 4576 tons, valued at approxi-
mately £58.400.
* * * *
In the Herberton district (N.Q.) promis-
ing exploration is being carried out, with
assistance from the Government, at the
Levant, Canberra and North Star tinmines.
At the Levant a new shoot 2ft. wide carry-
ing rich ore has been located; from the Can-
berra a crushing of 30 tons gave 5£ tons
of oxide, and 8 tons from the North Star
yielded 1 ton of oxide. The Great Northern
battery has started to treat prospectors’ ore.
* * * *
The old Maytown goldfield by the Palmer
River (N.Q.) has been receiving attention
again. The best return to date has been
86oz. of gold valued at £550 from 10 tons of
stone. A modern battery has not yet been
erected on the field.
* * *
G. 11. Warneford Lock, who used to
superintend the Wentworth Goldfields at the
time of their demise at the beginning of
this century, gave it as h's opinion that the
Lucknow (N.S.W.) deposits were encircled
by diorite walls, which precluded any geolo-
gical probability of the lode breaking through.
Yet exploration now being carried out on the
old field shows that the contact joint has been
picked up outside the declared golden zone.
Still, much smoke sometimes comes from
little fire.
4: 4: * *
A trial parcel of rich but complex gold
ore from the King Cassilis, near Omeo
(Vic.), has been forwarded by the National
Gold Mining Co. to the Bairnsdale School
of Mines for treatment, which w T ill probably
involve sweet roasting and chlorination.
Should a. successful method be evolved the
co. proposes to get to work on a large scale.
The school is also experimenting in the
treatment of sulphide material from the Joker
Mine, near Glen Wills, silver-gold ore from
Livingstone Creek, tailings from Combienbar
and complex gold ore from Dargo and Dept-
ford.
* * * *
At Rushworth (Vic.) the Phoenix and
Balaclava mines are to be unwatered and
further developed at depth. The Phoenix
was first worked in 1878, and yielded small
quantities of rich easily-treated ores. The
narrow lodes of the Rushworth district occur
in the legs of large folds; but once the reef
has passed the cap of the fold it is non-
auriferous. The north dipping reefs have
been the most productive. Extensive allu-
vial deposits have also been worked.
* & * *
A conglomerate formation at Steiglitz
(Vic.) is opening up well, a recent crushing
of 50 tons averaging over 9dwt. per ton. The
shaft bottomed at 45ft., where the auriferous
alluvial is 15in. thick.
* 4: * 4:
“Brimstone”: The Freeman process of
flash-roasting pyrite, including pyritic con-
centrates, is attracting attention in Aus-
tralia, where large deposits of the stuff lie
undeveloped. The finely-ground pyrite is
blown through a specially designed' burner,
the hot sulphur gase.es are passed through
dust-removing equipment, etc., and the sul-
phur is finally collected in an acid plant.
The calcine may be briquetted for iron smel-
ting. The scheme has found favor in Canada,
where the sulphur is used in the manufac-
ture of paper pulp—2oo-3501b. of sulphur
per ton of pulp. Tasmania, where the manu-
facture of both pulp and paper is still under
cons'deration. has abundant pyrite deposits
at Renison Bell on the West Coast. There
the material also contains 0.7 p.c metallic
tin.
4= * 4: *
The Tasmanian Co. at Beaconsfield has made
a start with the erection of a crushing and
screening plant for dressing asbestos accord-
ing to fibre length, upon which the price
depends. Quarrying of the outcrop is giving
good results. Imports of asbestos materials
in Australia normally total £135,000 p.a., of
which £70.000 worth is for brake linings,
and £52,000 for packings and insulation.
*.*.*.*
Counsel's assertion, when applying to a
London Court on behalf of Sons of Gwalia
Ltd., for a reduction of capital, that the
mine was nearing the end staggered most
of the co.’s Australian shareholders. It
would have been nearer the mark to
say that the show had turned what
at one time looked like a very bad corner.
During the past year developments under-
ground have shown much improvement and
out of returns from ore treatment the c o
has repaid nearly half of £72,000 it bor-
rowed from the State Government and given
shareholders their first taste since 1920. It
will probably do better still during the next
year.
* * * *
Some of the recent buying of Associated’s
(W.A.) has been prompted by the belief
that the co. is collecting the exchange pre-
mium in addition to declared profits of
about £4OOO monthly. A Bulletin man on
the spot declares that this is not so.
Associated, he says, is the only one of the.
Golden Mile group that includes the pre-
mium in its declared surplus, though this
has not been made plain by the manage-
ment, and it should be. The Bulletin has
repeatedly drawn attention ;to the need for
fuller information in connection with mining
cos.’ monthly statements.
-1: -T. * si:
Great Boulder No. 1 still lives, and crows
occasionally. It abandoned its Boulder mine
years ago in order to look for a better one,
but so far the search hasn’t been success-
ful. The show it discarded is now part of
the Enterprise group, over which Broken Hill
Prop, has taken an option, probably with
■\ view to incorporating it with the North
Kalgurli leases, provided the Prop.’s offer
for the latter is accepted. Boulder No. 1
Co.’s assets are nr>st.ly confined to shares in
other cos., the best of which is 2125 Wilunas.
* * * *
Brown’s Reward Co. has taken an option
on Miller’s Brownhill show on the north-
ern fringe of Kalgoorlie’s Golden Mile.
Miller’s moderate success in shallow ground
has resulted in a rush by peggers, option-
hunters and co. promoters to this part of
the field. Two cos., Kalgoorlie Central and
New Broken Hill, have been formed in
Melbourne to acquire some speculative blocks,
and several small Adelaide concerns are
feverishly negotiating for options on others.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance’s new bromo-cyanide
plant has kicked off and is confounding its
Kalgoorlie critics. The cost of power is less
than was estimated, and extraction is better
than was expected. The appearance of the
mine is steadily improving, and, despite the
fact that note-holders will get half the
profits, more divs. are expected to come
shareholders’ way shortly.
* * * *
On the east Perseverance lode Boulder
Perseverance has met with some nice stone
in a winze, 88ft. deep, from the 1100 ft.
level. Driving north and south at the bottom
of the winze the ore has averaged more than
25dwt. per ton over a length of 36ft. and a
width of Bft.
5 1 : Sjt :Jj
The Westralian mint received 585,4500 z.
of fine gold (nearly 18 tons) for the year
ended .Tune 30. Including the exchange pre-
mium (£1,392,000) the lot was worth
£3,879,000. Since September last no sover-
eigns have been minted, the gold being cast
in bars of 400 oz. each. For export three
bars go to the case.
* * * %
It was. only after Government pressure
was applied that the Kawarau dam gates
were closed, and then for a fortnight only.
Some good wash-ups are believed to have
been made, though many were afraid that,
if their hauls were made public, the Amal-
gamated Co. might demand its share. They
were assured, however, that this was not so.
Now the co. is talking about damming the
Arrow River to check the flow into the
Kawarau, and a tunnelling scheme, to cost
about £60,000, is proposed. Everything points
to something definite being done, provided
money can be got from London or else-
where.
A new and interesting method of recover-
ing crude oil from shale was demonstrated
in Sydney last week by the inventor, Mr.
Lovan, and his electrical assistant, Mr. Fred-
ericksen, who helped to develop the process.
There is no firing of the retort in the old
way. First the shale, spread on trays, is
leached by passing heated hydrogen over it,
thus removing everything except the carbon
residue. Then the super-heated gas, with its
load of residues, passes through condenser
coils, which, instead of being circular, have
right-angled ends, thus checking the speed
of the flow. From the condenser the gas
passes through an ingenious contrivance for
extracting any water present into a chamber
where an electric current precipitates the oil
content. The precipitater used for the
demonstration had glass sides, enabling the
actual precipitation to be seen. The process
is for extracting crude oil only. Many advan-
tages are claimed for the device, one being
that the libated gas, after the oil has left it,
can be fed to the retorts to do its work over
again. Very little electric current is con-
sinned. Whether the device can be worked
at a profit on a commercial scale remains
to be proved.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What is the usua l method of com paring
gross profits and net profits each year by
means of percentage statements? —1196.
Gross profit x 100 -H turnover = percent-
age of gross to turnover (sales). Net profit x
100 -f- turnover = percentage of net. It is
usual to take sales as a basis for comparison.
Mathematically it would be more correct to
take the cost of goods sold, but cost is often
a difficult thing to ascertain.
A good district in which to prospect for
alluvial gold? I've been to Trunkey and
Hargreaves. What about Braid wood and
Nerrigundah? —l464.
The Trunkey and Hargreaves areas are
considered to be as good as any other for allu-
vial prospecting. Some have been moder-
ately successful at: Braidwood and' Nerri-
gundah, but these places are not specially
recommended. A choice may be made from
the following localities from which alluvial
gold exceeding 2500 z. was won in 1931:
Roekley, Hill End, Orange, Stuart Town,
Bingara, Drake, Copeland. H'illgrove, Nundle,
ITralla, Tumbarumba.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
H.J.G.: (1) The Act does not apply to overdrafts;
nevertheless all banks have reduced their charges
by 1 p.c. or more. Further reductions are expected.
(2) Yqs. (3) No; others made concessions earlier,
but did not advertise the fact. (4) Salaries are
governed by Arbitration Court awards; there has
been no alteration in these. By arrangement with
the Bank Officers’ Association cuts ranging from
8$ p.c. to 10 p.c. have been made in all cases.
(6) Yes. (6) Don’t know of any, . ..M.G.: If oil
is to be found this co. is certainly going the right
way about it. The shares, however, are a gamble.
C’.A.D. : (1) £4,092,925. (2) F.die Creek area.
(3) Yes. (4) Bulolo, Wiluna, Lake View and i Star,
Mt. Coolon, Great Boulder, Sons of Gwalia, New
Misima N.G.H.: (1) Paid capital £339,413 in
64,407 10 p.c. cum. prefs. and 275,006 ords. Both
lots of shares are listed on Sydney ’Change, but. they
are seldom dealt in. (2) Not vet. Stock Exchange
Committee disapproved proposed scheme of recon-
struction, which was rejected by pref. shareholders
on May 18. (3) Over two years. (4) They are
preferential as to capital; but quarries are poor
assets these days. Put them away and forget about
them for the present. . . .S.P.H.: The public does not
yet realise what it owes to the banks in connection
with this crisis. In the U.S.A., during 1931, no
less than 2290 banks closed or suspended; the
amount of deposits involved was 1,759,000,000 dollars.
J.C.L.: (1) and (2) See B. 2/3/’32. (3)
Cannot say; the bonds have not an open market.
(4) Depends upon conditions when timber is mar-
keted. Prospects are anything but bright at the
moment... .J.R.M.: Under existing conditions
the co.’s prospects of making up the leeway are
far from bright... .R.W.T.: They do not appear to
be over-priced.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Profit-sharing as a Cure
Dear Bulletin, —Apart from things like
Communism, which call for a new structure
of society, the object of all remedies for our
present ills is the provision of higher returns
for labor and for active capital. These
higher returns can be got only by better prices
for products or/and more economical produc-
tion. Prices are largely beyond the control
of so small a community, and such control
as the public, through Parliament, can exert
is likely to result in higher, not necessarily
better, prices, for higher prices which result,
in higher costs are not necessarily better.
Improvement in economical production is in
our own hands.
Who is to take the first step? The em-
ployer, of course, not because he is at this
moment in a better position than the worker,
but because control is in his hands. H'c
must approach Ms men with as much frank-
ness as the “class war” propagandist. He
must evince as much regard for them as the
union organiser does, and he must avoid any
suggestion of charity or patronage like the
plague. His first and last argument must
be fair play. Between first and last come
public service, private advantage, team
spirit, Australianism, thrift, progress and the
rights of the children. Workers seek these
things in the spheres in which they have
control. Let the employers give them the
opportunity to seek them in industry.
A fair" and honest scheme of profit-sharing,
with openings for workmen to graduate into
management, brought into general operation
now, should give industry an impetus that
would make this season memorable for all
time.—Yours, W.T.D. (N.S.W.).
Compulsory Pools
Dear Bulletin, —In Queensland we have
compulsory wheat, egg and peanut pools, a
butter stabilisation board and advisory
boards fixipg the price for this and that.
Now we have a suggestion that suppliers
should be compelled to take their cream to
the local factories! These boards and pools
were formed to do away with the middleman
and divide his profits among the producers.
They have done away with the middleman to
a limited extent; but are the farmers any
better off? Are the men who run these
boards experienced enough and equipped with
the necessary capacity to provide the results
it was claimed the system would provide?
Take the Wheat Pool as an example. It
was formed to prevent the millers making
large profits at the expense of the grower.
Thousands of pounds were spent on stores,
and heavy costs have accrued'—one army of
classifiers, another to load and unload wheat,
a heavy interest bill with an annual loss in
weight due to long storing, mice, weevils
and other devilments that fix themselves upon
grain which used to pass instanter into
the millers’ hands and with it these risks.
From all accounts the millers continue to
make fine profits, as they, after all, continue
to be the only buyers. How it must suit
them to have the wheat stored at farmers’
risk, deteriorating at farmers’ risk, and clas-
sified at farmers’ risk! And the farmer
stands by and has his payments eked out
to him in small instalments spread over
more than a year. It appears to me to be
a mild form of Bolshevism.
Fifteen of the principal agricultural pro-
ducts of'Queensland are now marketed under
systems of control—over threequarters of the
agricultural production of the State. The
Director of Marketing has reported that all
of the boards have made good. He would
hardly be likely to report otherwise. I sug-
gest that the opinion of the farmers should
be taken.—Yours, Knockinnon (Q.).
Let’s Try Another “Plan”
Dear Bulletin, —The N. S. Wales Rail-
ways find themselves with 3000 surplus em-
ployees, but don’t apparently know what to
do about it. At £4 per week apiece they cost
£624.000 per annum, but if they were dis-
pensed with “in the first year the payment
of gratuities and superannuation would add
£200,000 to working expenses, and £90.000
in following years.” Why all the fuss? Even
if it were to be £200,000 all the time, clearly
that would be a better amount to pay than
£624,000. Apparently the Government is
concerned about devising a scheme for the
■partial employment of these men outside
the service.” Again, why? If they get their
gratuity rights and so forth, what more need
be done for them in the present circum-
stances? There are a great many people who
for the last two years—l am one of them-
have had a gruelling time and have often
been hungry; and we think it is high time
some of . the public servants, who have been
in constant employment, felt the pinch a
little, too..
Discussing teachers a day or two ago with
an acquaintance, the latter said, “But what
bad luck it would be for them after being
trained as teachers and used in the Educa-
tion Department, if they were now shot out!”
Bad luck be Mowed! It’s time this bad luck
was spread about a bit, and, till the public
service is made to realise that there is bad
luck to be shared all round, we’ll never start
getting out of our troubles. That is what
I and thousands of others feel about it.
What about a new Five-year Plan? Let
us tell the public service that at the end
of the first year one-tenth of each tentacle of
the octopus will be lopped off, and that if
anyone feels like making a start in some
other occupation now nobody will stop him—
or her. The same process repeated at the
end of each of the other four years will
see the service reduced in number by 50 per
cent, and no one will have had less than
12 months’ notice. What is left after that
can then be re-surveyed to see if any more
can be abolished. If this means curtailing
essential” services, well, it’s time we woke
up to the fact that everything labelled
"essential” isn’t. Such a plan involves
ruthless abolition, but it’s time the
abolition-axe took a few chops all round
the tree The public service side of the
trunk hasn’t been chipped yet.—Yours.
C lI.R. (N.S.W.).
Australia’s Bad Salesmanship
Dear Bulletin,—l see that tourists of
perhaps three weeks’ domicile in “the East”
are still writing to the papers blaming the
poor quality of the Australian goods as the
reason for their inability to capture those
markets. Nothing is wrong with the quality
of our products. Our meat and fruits are
superior to those packed in England, and
are equal to, if not better than, the Ameri-
can. 1 have spent over 15 years in tropical
stations, one being almost completely isolated
except for a quarterly relief ship, and for
years the staff at this outpost have lived
almost entirely on tinned food. All our
stores were packed in a galvanised-iron build-
ing. Towards the end of the three months
English and American meats were usually
subject to suspicion, but the Australian pro-
ducts always opened up in perfect condition.
There is little to choose between Yankee
jams and Australian. Perhaps the American
product would appeal more to the native eye
because of its more attractive label, but
both jams leave the English product far
behind. What we want is efficient trade
representation—sound business men who
understand the Eastern trade and will work
as liaison officers between Australian ex-
porters and the big wholesalers. There are
dozens of little things that have prejudiced
the native against our goods. There is an
Australian, firm of meat exporters wffiose
label depicts a pastoral scene showing a
few head of cattle and a couple of pigs.
While that brand of goods might be bought
by Europeans and Chinese, the pigs are
sufficient to taboo that article for any Malay,
Javanese or Indian, aud these form the
greater part of the Eastern population.—
Yours, Barangkali (N.S.W., pro tern.).
Farm and Other Mortgages
Dear Bulletin, —If “Curlew’s” criticism
is correct (B. l/6/’32), the shark that deals
in farm loans is worse than his industrial
vis-a-vis. In Sydney I have handled many
eases for fellow-industrialists who have been
caught in the trough of the depresh, and I
have invariably had a reasonable response.
I have never ‘ failed to get the lender to
meet the borrower more than half-way, and
have not only had the rate of interest re-
duced, but in one particularly hard case I
also had some of the principal wiped out.
All I have had to prove has been that the
borrower had tried and failed to meet obli-
gations. As a worker for many years in
industrial and union activities, I can defi-
nitely say that even the men who charged
25 per cent, without blinking an eyelid have
done much to lessen the blow dealt by
General De Presh.—Yours, Keg.
The Price of Wool
Dear Bulletin, —By your statement, “It
is a matter for serious consideration whether
the premium [exchange]
is not actually holding
down the price of wool”
(vide “Stinking Fish
Merchant s,” B.
20/7/’32), you raise the
interesting question
whether world wool-
prices are governed by
the prices within Aus-
tralia or outside Aus
tralia. If governed by
prices ruling outside the
Commonwealth, no rea-
sonable exchange rate
with Australia would
affect its value overseas.
If governed by its price
in Australia, then, of
course, a high exchange
rate will have the effect
of cheapening its cost in
sterling and in this way
its world-price. Once it
is determined that a rais-
ing of exchange will de-
press world prices, our
leaders should at once see
to it that the price in
Australia shall not be
below costs of produc-
tion. Yours faithfully,
Frank W. Partridge
(N.S.W.).
Pension and Other
Swindles
Dear B., —It is com-
mon knowledge that pen-
sion and other swindles
are frequent in the coun-
try—they may be in the
cities, too, but I can’t
speak of that. In some
cases the whole district
seems to know about it —
all except the officer pay-
ing out the money. Is
there no responsibility
upon him—or her? Should
he not be required to use
all reasonable means of
assuring himself that all
is fair and the person
entitled to the money? I
am thinking of a case in
which a woman who had
got a farm from her hus-
band by will transferred it
to a son, the considera-
tion being “natural love
and affection.” His
natural love and affec-
tion didn’t stop the old
lady going on the pension
not so long afterwards. —
Yours, Didget (Q-).
The Blind Unions
Dear B., —I am a
small country contractor.
I have bought my timber
at Brown’s mill for about
15 years, and during the
last three or four years
Brown has reduced his
prices by nearly a third.
To-day I can buy timber
at Jones’s mill and have
it carted over 20 miles of
country roads to the job
alongside Brown’s mill,
and make a big saving.
Brown says he cannot
reduce another penny, as
there is nothing in it for
himself now. TTie lowest
wage he pays is 15s. for
unskilled labor. Jones’s crowd are three or
four friends or relations working a small
mill in the bush, sharing the profits and
contented with nine or ten shillings per
day and constant work. Brown works about
one week in three and Jones continuously.
So the man on nine shillings is earning more
than the man on fifteen. I do not know a
single union-wage mill that is working even
half-time, but all the little family concerns
are finding plenty to do and are underselling
the union-wage mills. Would we not be
better off all on a lower wage with more
work to do and able to buy our clothing,
groceries, etc., at a reduced rate? Unionism
has been ever ready to squeeze all it could
get out of industry in the good times, and
does not know how to retreat in the bad. It
is being slowly outflanked, and if it does
not retreat to safer ground it will be anni-
hilated, which I think would be a bad thing
for the country as a whole. —Yours etc.,
Sylvester (Q-).
The Digger’s Dependants
Dear B., —For the last two years I have
been out of a job, and have not received one
penny in relief; income from a microscopical
investment, the immediate and swift pursuit
of the nimble shilling whenever one has
appeared in the offing and doing without
(chiefly the last) has enabled me to live.
Near me is a returned soldier holding a per-
manent job. In addition he performs cer-
tain services for both State and Federal
Governments, for which one may suppose he
is paid. In addition he draws pensions,
not only for himself, but for a wife and a
numerous young family, none of whom did
anything to make this world safe for Demo-
cracy. I don’t blame him for accepting all
that a grateful country throws at him; but
I ask you, is it a fair thing? The returned
soldier is just as strongly organised as the
public servant, and just as ready to squeal
about his “rights.” No Government is
game to deal with either in a fitting manner,
and the taxpayers, to say nothing of thou-
sands like myself, who see no prospect of
relief from a condition of things that is be-
coming intolerable, begin to think red. —
Yours, Barnacle Bill (Q.).
Protection that Doesn’t Protect
Dear B., —The Bulletin mentions a case
where goods valued at £217 in London cost
£517 to land in Australia. Doesn’t this
suggest that no one in Australia could supply
those goods at a reasonable price? How
can this be called Protection? Whom did it
protect? Not the buyer; not any Austra-
lian industry; and not the consumer, who
will ultimately have to pay the extra cost.
Here’s another instance. An Adelaide manu-
fact uring business wanted some special plant;
a Victorian firm said they could supply it—
they hadn’t made any before and would
have to alter their works to do so; they
wanted six months for the job, and it was
very doubtful what the result would be. Still
they said they could do it, and the Adelaide
firm consequently was only allowed to im-
port the plant on payment of 65 p.c. duty.
The total cost, plus duty, primage, sales
tax, exchange, freight, insurance, carriage
and fitting, was still £3OOO less than the
f.o.b. Melbourne-quoted price. The result is
that an Australian factory, employing Aus-
tralian labor, using only Australian-grown
materials, was compelled to pay more than
double what it should have paid for its essen-
tial equipment—and no one was protected.
The latest and most up-to-date plant and
machinery are the essentials to the success
of any industry, and it is a suicidal policy to
make them almost impossible to be acquired
at an economic price.—Yours H. L. Wai:d
(S. A.). _____
Misuse of Protection
Dear B., —Are manufacturers’ associations
aud the like doing their duty? Are they giving
Protection a fair chance? Let me quote a
case. An agreement was made between the
Commonwealth Government and the tobacco
buyers to purchase 7,000,0001 b. of the cur-
rent season’s crop at a minimum of 2s. 3d.
per pound. Indications are that there will
be a crop of about 10,000,0001 b., and that a
great deal of the surplus of 3,000,0001 b. will
be of such poor quality that buyers will be
unwilling to pay 2s. 3d. per pound for it and
will prefer to import leaf on which the duty
alone is 3s. per pound. A meeting qf the Vic.
Tobacco Growers’ Association was held at
Bendigo to consider the position, and, instead
of facing the facts fairly and discussing
methods of improving the quality, it was
decided tq “inform the Federal Government
that the margin of protection is insufficient.”
In other words, Protection is to be used to
force the. consumer to pay an exorbitant
price for an inferior article. —Yours, Rokok
( vic.). , _____
Use the Lottery
Dear B., —My idea is to conduct four
£1 lotteries each year (apart from the usual
os. 3d. sweeps), the profit to be earmarked
and expended on revenue-producing work,
such as sewerage. This scheme would give
employment to some hundreds of men and the
work would be paid for in full and without
taxation. As it is estimated that out of
every ss. 3d. in the ordinary lotteries about
3s. 6d. could go to the hospitals, nearly 14s.
in every £1 could be used in the manner
above suggested.—Yours etc., Ox (N.S.W.).
ANSWER REQUIRED.
CELESTIAL CUSTOMS OFFICER: “Any bribes to declare?”
SYDNEYITE (instinctively): “I don’t know.”
C.C.O.: “Come, come! This isn’t a Tin Hare Commission.”


__ Wanted.
ANTED experienced Mine Manager for
developmental work on gold-mining
leases; particulars of experience, copies of
testimonials, salary required, to JOSEPH
KENNA AND CO., Wool Exchange. Bris-
bane.
M >c«insr Friends.
JOHN MINIHANE OR MONAHAN OR
MOYNIHAN.
WILL aiiy person who can afford informa-
tion as to the present whereabouts of this
gentleman (who was born in Ireland about
1855 and left Ireland for Australia about 50
years ago, and was in Queensland in the
Police Force, which he left in 1886) or of
the date and place of his death, or of the
present whereabouts of any of his descend-
ants, kindly communicate with FILLMER
AND PORT, Solicitors, 7 Marlborough
Place, Brighton, England.
Legal Notices.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH
AUSTRALIA.
No. 275 of 1932
Between PHYLLIS ETHEL HALL Plaintiff
And ROYDEN LESLIE JAMES HALL Defendant.
To ROYDEN LESLIE JAMES HALL.
NOTICE is hereby given to ROYDEN LESLIE
JAMES HALL whose last known address was at
Adelaide in the State of South Australia that a
Writ has been issued in the Supreme Court of
South Australia in an action in which his wife
Phyllis Ethel Hall claims an order for divorce from
her husband on the ground of his desertion for over
five years and in such action his wife intends to
ask for an order for maintenance and for costs, and
if Royden Leslie James Hall desires to be heard in
opposition to the claim for any of such orders he
must file an appearance in the office of the Master
of the Supreme Court of South Australia within 60
days of the publication of the latest advertisement
directed to be published in this action otherwise
orders may be made against him in his absence.
VILLENEUVE SMITH, KELLY, HAGUE AND
TRAVERS,
Insurance Chambers, Pirie Street, Adelaide,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
]N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1059 of 1932.
Between MAY AMELIA RUSSELL Petitioner
And FRANK ERNEST RUSSELL Respondent.
FRANK ERNEST RUSSELL late of Darljnghurst
near Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said May Amelia Russell
has commenced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a Dissolution of Marriage
on the grounds of wilful desertion without just
cause or excuse for a period of three years and
upwards. AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the eighth day of November one thousand
nine hundred and thirty-two and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the Petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitor free of charge.
Dated this twelfth day of August, a.d. 1932,
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
E. ,T. McQUIGGIN, Solicitor, Wilga Chambers,
158 Phillip Street, Sydney. _______
JOSEPH STANFORD brother of BESSIE STAN-
FORD who died intestate at Wellington New
ind on the 24t,h March 1930: To his children
to all persons claiming by through or under him
hem. .
JRSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court ot
Zealand you are hereby called upon to send
ne on or before the Ist day of October De-
claims to the estate of the abovenanied. deceased
ng which the said estate will be distributed
warding your claims.
ited at Wellington this 22nd day of July, 1932.
CHAS. E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS Full COMING WEEK.
Royal (com. Saturday) “Saint Joan ,r
Her Majesty’s “Bitter Sweet”
State . Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Grand Opera
King’s “Dr. Pygmalion”
State Movies and Talkies
♦
A Film Censor Visits the Opera
It grieves me to report, dear friends, that
tlie unremitting efforts of my colleagues and
myself, as recognised pillars of respectable
society, to elevate the public taste, to rescue
“Discussing with
their husbands the
respective merits of
the individuals who
impersonate these
abandoned ere a-
tures.”
tiie country from
moral turpitude and
to foster plain living
and high thinking by
the deodorising of
theatrical amuse-
ments, are being set
at naught and the
nation nay, the
Empire—brought in-
to jeopardy by a
form of so-called en-
tertainment whose
character is such
that nothing but a
stern sense of pub-
lic duty impels me
to so much as men-
tion it.
I refer to the sea-
son of Italian Grand
Opera at the Theatre
Royal, Melbourne.
It is only, friends,
by a supreme effort
of will that I have
been able to write
the above sentence
and to suppress my natural inclination to
replace it with a row’ of asterisks.- Con-
sider, friends, the plots of these productions.
One of the most jealously-guarded regula-
tions of the Film Censorship Act is that
relating to the glorifying of crimes of
violence, especially those directed against
the representatives of established institu-
tions. In Melbourne we know only too well
what crime in Sydney is when unglorified by
song.
In “La Tosca” a woman of very question-
able morals thrusts a carving knife into the
Governor of a Roman city, who is repre
sented as having offered her her lover’s free-
dom as the price of her liighly-dubious virtue.
In “Un Ballo in Maschera” the ruler of a
colonial province of the British Empire is
depicted as harboring an unlawful affection
for the wife of his secretary, and his secre-
tary is presented as invoking the unwritten
law. which, thank Heaven, has no currency
in this country, by murdering his employer.
In “II Trovatore” the mother of a gipsy
is burned as a witch by order of a count.
“An entirely illegal and improper proceed-
ing”
The gipsy steals one of the count’s children,
contrary to the laws regarding kidnapping.
The kidnapped child falls in love with the
fiancee of his brother, contrary to the laws
of hospitality. The count condemns him to
death without benefit of jury, and the lady
commits suicide, contrary to the laws of
nature. There was some highly suggestive
business in this play relative to a shameful
proposal made to the count by the lady, but
as it was sung in a foreign language its full
import escaped me.
In “Rigoletto” a leading member of the
Italian aristocracy debauches the daughter
of one of his employees. The employee
evokes lynch law in order to be revenged on
his master. Ilis daughter is murdered in
"Only a few years off
eternal punishment in
any case.”
error, and after
this orgy of
crime and wick-
edness the author
of the trouble
goes off unscath-
ed, singing a fri-
volous ditty with
every evidence of
an unrepentant
spirit. None of
these criminals
was brought to
justice in any of
the productions I
saw and I dare-
say the same
applies to all of
them. In fact, I
noticed that it
was almost a
fixed rule that
the best music was given to the worst
characters, arguing sympathy with iniquity
on the part of the composers.
In “Cavalleria Rusticana” a highly repre-
hensible peasant named Turiddu is false to
his fiancee, but subsequently resumes his old
relations with her, although she has since
married. In this case, it is true, the law-
breaker is slain in a duel by the injured
husband, hut one wrong is not made right by
another entirely illegal and improper pro-
ceeding. 1 A . ■ . , ,
Another salutary restraint imposed by the
censorship upon the films is that which pro-
hibits the making of vice attractive.
In “Faust” an old man who ought to have
known better sets a bad example by selling
his soul to the devil, and in return has wealth,
youth and good looks showered upon him.
He uses these gifts to seduce a pure and
innocent maiden, who, however, is far too
easily persuaded. It is true that Faust is
eventually dragged down to Hell, but the
moral lesson loses its point when we reflect
that he was probably only a few years off
eternal punishment in any case.
In “Carmen” a number of young men and
women are represented as camped in the
mountains for no sufficient reason. The
resemblance to a mystery hike is too pain-
fully obvious to require elaboration. But
“Carmen” is no worse than “La Boh&me”
and “II Pagliaeci,” which suggest a standard
of behavior little above that of cats or
monkeys.
I am not, I hope, one of those unfortu-
nate people, who, while being quite insen-
sible to artistic impressions, are morbidly
sensitive to sexual ones. But there are limits
beyond which art becomes license. Without
the restraints of morality the adoration of
beauty may lead to a distinct decline in
modesty. I need only say with regard to this
that I overheard respectable matrons in the
foyers actually discussing with their husbands
the respective merits of the individuals who
impersonate the abandoned creatures who
appear to be the chief attractions of these
performances. When such unmitigated pagan-
ism masquerades as a love of art and music
and is patronised by the leaders of thought
and fashion, it is time to proclaim, with the
prophets of old, that Babylon is come again
and Sodom and Gomorrah are in our midst.
I have no hesitation, friends, in saying
that if any of these demoralising exhibitions
“In Melbourne we know, only too well what
crime in Sydney is, when unglorified by
song.”
came before me in the guise of a moving-pic-
ture I should have no option but to ban
it, not only to children between the ages of
six and sixteen, but to citizens of all ages.
The Firm's latest operatic production at
Melbourne Royal, Giordano’s “Andrea
Chenier,” modern as operas go, since it was
written in 1896, starts out as an interesting
musical and dramatic study of the French
Revolution, but soon settles comfortably
down in the upholstered armchair of melo-
drama. The heroine’s offer to die with her
lover on the gallows is always well in the
offing. In the first act, in the Countess de
Coigny’s castle, there is an abortive rising
of the proletariat, which is successfully sup-
pressed by four butlers. In the second act,
Gerard, one of the butlers, has become a
revolutionary leader, gorgeously arrayed,
peruked, wrapped in the Tricolor and gifted
with a golden voice—in short, Apollo
Granforte. One of the major achieve-
ments of the Revolution has been to
put him in a position where he can
be the protector of Molly de Gunst Mad-
eleine, for whom he had previously harbored
a hopeless passion.
Madeleine, however,
loves poet Chenier
(Pedro Mirassou),
who has been saying
nasty things about
Robespierre’s Five-
year Plan, of which
he approves in prin-
ciple but not in de-
t a i 1. Madeleine
makes no bones
about telling Gran-
forte Gerard what
she thinks of him,
clothing the snub in
an aria of uncom-
mon beauty. The
wounding of Gerard
by the poet stirs
Paris to revolution-
ary fury and closes
the second act.
The third act is
largely occupied by
community singing
in the Tribunal of
the Committee of
Public Safety. The
proletarian choir is
“Singing a frivolous
ditty with every
symptom of an un-
repentant spirit”
conducted by the invaluable Albino Marone,
a comic caricature of a Red Guard
with a false nose and a bass voice of
great depth and volume. Things become
more serious, however, when the Terrorist
judges enter and take their seats on the tri-
bunal. The charge-shoot- is dealt with ex-
peditiously, several aristocrats being sent
off to the guillotine without unnecessary
procrastination on the part of the republi-
cans. The poet, however, is treated with
more consideration. He is allowed to have
a musical row with Gerard, a love scene
with Madeleine and a magnificent aria all
“Unmitigated paganism masquerades as a
love of art.”
to himself, during which the Court waits
patiently. After indicting tyranny and de-
nouncing injustice, he declares his unalter-
able devotion to the true principles of the
Revolution, and is developing his argument
when Chief Judge Fouquier Tmville cuts
him short with the single word, “Morte,
much as an editor might drop a spring poem
into the wastepaper basket.. In the last
act we are completely back in the conven-
tions of opera. It is a blue scene there
is always a blue last scene in opera with
a touch of purple for passion. The poet is
in prison. The ex-lackey Gerard, who has
repented, fetches in Madeleine, who has
taken the place of a condemned woman so
as to accompany her lover to the scaffold.
The tumbril arrives and waits while the
lovers conclude any business they may have
with the audience. The pair then hasten
off to catch the ’bus to the hereafter. Their
at this point reduces the last
moment to farce. It only required a stage-
hand to throw an old boot after them to
convey the perfect impression of a honey-
moon.
Giordano’s music is an extraordinary
muddle. It is a mixture of platitude, force-
ful declamation, fine sentiment and occa-
sional passages of beauty. The revolution-
ary fervor is largely maintained by abuse
of the big drum. The inconsistencies of the
score must have been a rare puzzle for con-
ductor Rossi, as well as for the Australian
orchestra, but they solved most of it jvith
remarkable agility. Apart from a tendency
to confront the mob like an advertisement
for theatrical tailoring, Mirassou was a con-
vincing poet. Molly de Gunst had several
great moments, ascending vertiginous heights
of song without looking back for an instant.
Gerard looked like a cross between Dis-
raeli and Apollo Granforte, and sang and
behaved like an archangel. The mob never
looked like a mob—stage mobs never do —
but its costuming was a liberal education in
the sartorial side of revolution.
* * *
There was once a gentleman in Germany
named Johann Sebastian Bach, who reared
a large family, lived to a ripe old age, and
in between wrote a lot of music. Most of
it ostensibly for churches. There is in Mel-
bourne an organist named William McKie,
with whom Bach is not a mere tradition
but a passion. Mr. McKie was lately sus-
pected by the City Fathers, his employers, of
being highbrow-, a word with such a sinister
connotation that you would think twice be-
fore you threw it at a dog, or even at a
wombat. They feared that Mr. McKie’s
highbrow proclivities would end in the
people of Melbourne deserting music for
less innocuous things. So they counselled
Mr. McKie to make his civic concerts less
highbrow and so more popular. Mr. McKie
countered by organising a festival exclu-
sively devoted to his favorite composer. The
Bach festival was a monster proof that any-
thing can be made popular—even good music.
There were packed Town Halls at the daily
mid-day (two seances) and five-o’clock organ
recitals. Despite the misgivings of the City
Fathers, business men and flappers found
a strange pleasure in following the Gothic
complications of this unaccustomed music,
and organist McKie arranged his programmes
with considerable forethought; he interspersed
between the difficult items chorales and trios
of a more tuneful character, his Bach mine
being practically inexhaustible in this re-
spect. He further helped his audience, with
a preliminary word, in the understanding of
the more involved musical forms, stimulat-
ing their interest in the elaborate structure
to an extent that must have amazed their
civic parents. And it was an astonishing
spectacle to see the rapt interest of an
immense audience, suddenly liberated from
jazz and Gilbert and Sullivan, absorbed in
the unrolling of the intricacies of, say, the
Passacaglia, where the original theme given
out by pedals is repeated, each time with a
new variety of enrichment, 21 times; and
then, to show that there is still life in him,
the old boy dashes into an elaborate fugue.
In addition to the daytime recitals there
were three great concerts. At the first, the
“Magnificat,” conducted by Fritz Hart, sug-
gested that the performers were almost as
unaccustomed to Bach as their audience,
but the oboe man deserved a medal. Wil-
liam James conducted the Orchestral Suite,
but the Bach of it was considerably better
than the James. Davis conducted the
“Sleepers, Awake,” which lingers in one’s
memory for its animated opening, its gor-
geous trio of bass, soprano and violin, and
for the staggering “Zion Hears his Watch-
man Calling,” where the choir sings across
a lovely rhythmic melody oft-repeated by the
orchestra. With the second concert, which
began with the Brandenburg Concerto, the
one that marches in so grandly and lilts
itself out so deliciously, Bach came into his
own. McKie made a great job of the Pre-
lude in A minor with its noble fugue. Any-
body who didn’t like the singing of the
Motet for double choir could go yogi until
the Concerto for two violins, well played by
Edouard Lambert and Bernard Heinze,
which shows Bach in his most araumenta-
tive mood. One imagined the ball being
tossed between two genial philosophers—
statement, reply, extension and develop-
ment, restatement and reply, the occasional
discord and conflict of crossing thoughts,
quickly to resolve into agreement. And the
Chaconne (played by Lambert) showed what
the old German gentleman could persuade
one unaided fiddle to do —at times one could
swear a whole orchestra was hard at it.
Richard Chugg with his flute made a beau-
tiful thing of the B minor suite. The Con-
certo for three pianos, magnificently played
by Raymond Lambert, Simons and McKie,
was a rare treat that should be repeated at
some future concert. Its adagio has all the
moderns beat for weird and lovely har-
monies. It was left for George English to
crown the festival with his magnificent
carrying through of the titanic B minor
Mass. The extraordinary variety of moods,
especially in the “Credo,” and the strange
building up of the “Kyrie.” where the theme
is passed contrapuntally from voice to voice
and finally accepted by the fiddles, requires
a perfectly controlled choir and English’s
conducting, full of fire and enthusiasm, was
just what was needed.
* # *
It was a tribute to the intelligence of
Melbourne music-lovers that the Auditorium
was half-full for the concert of semi-moderns
by pianist Moiseiwitseh on Saturday. Apart
from the mammoth Liszt sonata the menu
was composed exclusively of entrees, and
they all had the appearance of having been
cooked by the same chefs, although names
like Granados, Ibert, Poulenc and Balakirev
figured on the programme. But the pianist
scored full marks for his playing of the
sonata.
* * *
The Sybil Thorndike season, the most
artistic achievement of which was Euripides’
‘ Medea, ’ ceased at Melbourne King’s 021
Saturday. Next Saturday Margaret Raw-
lings will introduce “Dr. Pygmalion,” by the
Australian Harrison Owen.
* *
Nellie Bramley’s company at Melbourne
Palace was temporarily strengthened by
Harvey Adams last week, when “Polly With
a Past” was monkey-glanded before excel
lent, houses. . This week the indomitable
Nellie is serving “Brown Sugar” to appre-
ciative audiences,
* * #
Sydney Rep. Soc. under direction of Scott
Alexander performed five Grand Guignols
on Saturday. Levinski’s “The Letter” fea-
tured the eternal triangle and climaxed with
the murder of the tertium quid. “Suicide,”
with Keith Cribb providing comedy, was in
lighter vein (as Grand Guignols go). “Vul-
tures” filled the stage with criminal lunatics,
maniacal yells and fiendish deeds. An adap-
tation from Poe’s “Tell-tale Heart” was well
done, with William Rees in the principal
role. Paul Lecoq’s “The Wager” wound up
the evening. Dorothy Whiteley, Alice Bol-
ger and J. Harvey were the pick of the
players. More Guignols to-night.
* *
Adelaide Repertory had a house crowded
to the doors for its latest short-play even-
ing. A novel feature was a classic. Japanese
farce, given with elaborate posturings by
Harkness (formerly with Alan Wilkie) and
Kester Baruch. In a short address, Talbot
Smith, the Rep. president, wondered how
the 900 subscribers of to-day, tending more
and- more to evening dress, would have
seemed to the little band of earnest students
of the drama who founded the theatre—the
first of its kind in Australia.
“Cauboy”: This mysterious innuendo
appears in an advance puff for a J.C.W. pro-
duction : “ ‘Autumn Crocus’ should have a
deep sentimental appeal to Melbourne
theatregoers because it deals with the
romance of a middle-aged English school-
teacher and her reactions to a love that came
too late in life.” What part did a middle-
aged English schoolteacher play in Mel-
bourne’s dark past?


ONE
;• \-VvS
~ " • ■:•.'■ -ill
vX«S
x
c oV «*fc
•• %*
XS$S>
P V GN^
«
t>9^V
CO**
111-
m
ftiSx
ft*
«-A|.
'/'IIP-
mmM
<c
>■:•■■:-: Sf
Sggs
O
Wmmm
m
|||||||
JliiSi - a i
gSgj
jKftW&a&SSSSSxS »;.■-;
x\':
iilllli
BBSB
111
vSSsWS
BSB
•SSSSfx
SH&HS
5i - M
1
; : ; :
wmm
11111 , :' (
SIMS & 5 • .•••••
iili
pi|
■-'■■ SifKSlSSfKftffffi
' .Is H '''' ,
ri , § Ilf g
/ SSI 1 1
•x^X'X’ftiwSww:vs®..
- ■■■*
■SfffSSfffS^x-fffS
Sr
ountry Life
cigarettes
4-1933-7 1
IT’S a happy reflection that
Country Life bring you an
extra cigarette in every one-
and-sixpenny tin. It’s an addi-
tional satisfaction that height-
ens your enjoyment of the Fine
tobacco, perfect rolling and
careful, triple packing of these
better cigarettes.
21
r A|/g
I4A-I 7 -
And in Tins of 50, 100 and 150.
Also Fifties, Round Airtight Tins.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Persona! Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobef
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
V*
#
£
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural,
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” is in its 91st year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania
Full information, copies, advertising rates “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
South Africa and England
* BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
fThemistocles 12,500 tons, Sept. 6
*Nestor . . 14,500 „ Oct. 18
+Ceramic . . 18,500 „ Oct. 26
; ' ; Ulysses . . 14,500 „ Nov. 8
•First class only. tFirst and third class.
} Cabin class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. )
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.]
Joint
Ag-ents
ABORIGINALITIES
“Elgibee”: I have waited patiently for
some member of the Council to say some-
thing blistering about the bird perched on
the current issue of the Commonwealth
sixpenny stamp. Why depict a kookaburra
on a perch he never uses—a green bough—
with gum-leaves artistically arranged to
emphasise the bloomer? A self-respecting
.Tack invariably selects a dead limb.
“Homby”: I should like to know where
"Wook” (B. 6/7/’32) got 6s. each for
water-rat skins. The best price I ever
heard of was Is. 3d. each, paid by a
Wodonga (Vic.) buyer. The usual figure is
from 9d. to is. If “Hamer”
goes in for the business he
mustn’t “plug his traps in along
the banks of the river.” The
water-rat, when caught by a
limb, is prone to escape by
gnawing it off. To obviate this,
trappers fasten their traps to
logs jutting well out into the
water. When the rat is caught
he jumps, dragging the trap
with him into the dampness, and
the weight keeping him under he
is soon drowned. The surface
logs are the nightly playgrounds
of the creatures, and traps set
there almost invariably catch
them.
* * *
“Mako”: Bishop Bennett of
Aotearoa, first Maori Bishop of
M.L., went on an excursion the
other day to visit a cliff dwell-
ing near Mokau, alleged to have
been a temporary residence of
the warrior Te Rauparaha. Two
apartments have been built into
the cliff-face, and one particu-
larly is well preserved, though
it is a century since it ' was
occupied—probably as a hidey-
hole for the family of the chief
when he went on one of his fre-
quent marauding expeditions.
The Maori names for the two
apartments indicate that Te
Rauparaha also dwelt there at
times, alert against attack, one
room being where he slept, with
his weapons for a pillow, and
the other the place of his ever-
ready two-pointed spear. The
totara timber and the reed- and
flax-work are in good condition,
and the Govei-nment is to be
asked to protect this sti'ange
where, the ceiling of which is
only four feet high.
“Bonzo”: I know something about the
human aura, mentioned by “Taniwha” (B.
27/7/’32), having taken part in experiments
conducted by a medico friend in London
about 20 years ago. My friend’s method
was _ a primary preparation of the eyes, by
looking at a dull, cloudy sky through a
small glass box containing dicyanin, a blue-
colored dye procurable in Germany. The
subject to be examined stood in a dark
THE DANGEROUS ART.
DAVE: "Dad, I’m goin’ ter join this-ere correspondence school.”
DAD: "If yerll take my advice, boy, yer’ll keep away from them flamin’ women.”
room and the aura was easily discernible
like a halo around the subject. Its shape
was roughly oval, and in the case of a man
the greatest breadth wag across the head:
in that of a woman, across the loins. The
color varied according to sex, the aura of
a male being blue or dull grey, and that
of a female a yellowy white. The aura of
,i negro was dark grey and remarkably
FALSE PRETENCES.
STOREKEETER: “This-pfeller machine throw out plenty heat, Flourbag.”
FLOURBAG: “No-o-o! Mine know this-pfeller machine. Him no throw out heat. Him
make-it plenty-time hotter.”
broken in outline. My friend suggested that
the higher the intelligence the more defi-
nitely blue the aura, a theory which will
not break much ice with the fair sex. lie
also claimed to be able to detect incipient
disease by a peculiar sparkle in the aura
opposite the affected part. I forget the
details of my friend’s technical explanation
of the phenomena, but it was purely psychi-
cal, and had something to do with the co-
relation of matter and energy.
“I.aloki”: A Papuan walked into a trade
store in Moresby, planked three shillings on
the counter and demanded a “pyblo.” “A
what?” inquired the European storekeeper.
“What’s it like?” The customer explained
that he was to appear before the magistrate
that afternoon to engage in litigation for
the return of his wife, who had deserted him
for another, and he wanted to weight file
scales of justice as much as possible in his
own favor by buying a “pyblo,” which, he
felt confident, would serve that end. “Yes,
but what is this pyblo?” insisted the store-
keeper. “Show me wh'at it’s like.” “This
one book, Taubada, ’nother kind book—too
strong! Before time I see one taubada go
along courthouse. He got case. First time
he go inside courthouse he stand up, lie
take this one pyblo in his hand, he smell
’im—all right, he win this one case. Ah,
’nother kind book, this one.” The explana-
tion sufficed, and the storekeeper sold him
a Bible, an old one, whose efficacy was
claimed to be enhanced by age.
* * * :;s
“C.Y.”: On marking lambs this season, I
find that males outnumber females by two to
one. Experienced N.S.W. flock-owners tell me
this is an infallible warning of drought,
their theory being that Nature takes a step
to check breeding in advance on such occa-
sions. Any scientific basis for it?
( “Bandar”: Yet another enthusiast in G
C. Knibbs, son of the late Commonwealth
Statistician, has resurrected the old theory,
long ago blown out, that anthropoid apes
exist in New Guinea and the Solomons. He
is not the first to place too much faith in
native legends invented to satisfy investi-
gators. A famous instance is that of a
well-known writer of Papuan reminiscences,
C. A. Monekton. He was always eager to
go down to posterity as the discoverer of
something new, as his finding of an allegedly
“web-footed” tribe of Papuan swamp-dwellers
will testify. Once lie got hold of a notorious
old native ruffian in the Northern Division
who told him that he had once fought for
many hours with a devil which, with M'onck-
ton’s eager promptings, soon developed into
the likeness of an anthropoid ape. Monckton
was preparing a glowing report on the
matter when a doubting colleague produced
one of Sir William Macgregor’s early re-
ports. This showed that Macgrcgor had
fired a shotgun at the ruffian in question
after ho had stolen an axe from Sir
William’s camp and was running away
with it. The scars on his buttocks, which
the native assured Monckton had been
caused by the nails of the devil when he
strove with him, were thus fully explained
and another zoological mystery was cleared
up. As Wallace showed, ages ago, a line
drawn sharply between the island of New
Guinea and the Moluccas separates entirely
the fauna of Asia and Australasia. On the
one side the tiger, the monkey, the tapir,
the elephant, and so on. On the other the
marsupials. Many birds are common to
both sides, but the Bird of Paradise, save
for Moluccan example, is confined to New
Guinea and a section of Australia.
“Wealsman”: Protesting against Tas.
Fauna Board’s proposal to place swans on.
the list of fully protected birds a speaker
at a local municipal meeting said that the
fact that swan-shooting was prohibited on
the mainland had little bearing on the argu-
ment, as the Tasmanian swans were the
only edible ones in Australia. Is this soV
It is also alleged, on the side of the guns,
that the swan population of the breeding
district (the East Coast lagoons) is nor
materially decreased by the shooting now
permitted (three or four months of the year,
as for wild duck), but decreases or increases
strictly in accordance with the amount of
food available. In effect, this means that in
a season when food is plentiful the birds
breed so heavily that those wbo die by the
guns would in any case die off (or breed
lightly the following year) from starvation.
Boyal Society sec. Clive Lord (who is on
the side of the swans) reckons that if the
birds were wholly px-otected, in a prolific
year the stronger birds would leave the com-
paratively safe coast and colonise other parts
of the island.
_“Gnd”: Touching the Alsatian (P>.
27/7/’.’>2). “Gelert’s” anticipations have been
forestalled by a police sergeant in North
Queensland. This officer has two of these
faithful hounds, which accompany him when -
ever he raids a goods train in darkness for
the purpose of collecting a few bagmen.
Usually the number of travellers outweighs
the possibility of their being captured by
the sergeant single-handed, so the dogs pur-
sue, and knock down, the fugitives without
much violence. The recumbent foi*ms are
then (usually) amenable to peaceful ari’est.
THE GOLD-SEEKERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The number of men employed in goldmining in
AVestralia lias nearly doubled since 1929.”
Mayhap again we’ll never see
The roaring, rushing, burning
And beckoning years of ’ninety-three
And ’ninety-four returning.
Yet now the batteries louder strum
And busier squeaks the shaker
To shadow lots of gold to come,
Beside the wealth that made the hum
Around the Dirty Acre.
To coax the wheat and wool is well
When wool and wheat are booming,
But not when cockies glumly tell
It’s off the rye, the blooming.
Meanwhile gold stays as good as gold
Where’er it waits the taker:
Our aureate map’s but half unrolled
Between Gentralian range and wold
And Boulder’s Dirty Acre.
There’s many a camp, long years asleep,
The dolly’s steady tinkle
May cause again to life to leap,
The same as Rip Van Winkle.
And many an old-time fossicker
And many a gully-raker
Will hear, beyond the grave, the stir
That runs to outback gorge and spur
Right from the Dirty Acre.
Who knows what wealth the West may hold
In frowning ambuscado?
Here’s to another hill of gold,
A newer Eldorado!
Strange if it should but domicile
A single record-breaker.
Hero’s to a richer Golden Mile—
And set therein, in neater style,
A cleaner Dirty Acre!
w
T. THE R.


DOUBLE
GEARED
Descriptive Folder Post Free on Request.
INTRODUCING OUR 1932 MODEL
Wind Mill
A Modern Mill designed to give tlie greatest amount of
Power from the Various Wind Pressure —Double Gears.
Machine Cut and Ball Bearings on the Main Shaft with
Ball Bearing Race on the Tower Cap make the New
Billabong extremely easy running and very sensitive to
changing winds. A spacious Oil Bath and other Self-
oiling Devices provide for thorough lubrication through-
out, thus but little attention is requred. A Cover, made
of sheet steel, is fitted so as to ensure a thoroughly
Weatherproof Compartment for the Working Parts. The
Wind Wheel is our Standard Type, which has always
given entire Satisfaction. A reliable Brake, with othei
Special Features govern the running of the Mill. Intend-
ing Wind Mill Buyers should certainly investigate the
merits of this New Billabong.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
391-403 BOUBKE STREET. MELBOURNE, C.l.
334-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SELF-
OILING
“Wyara”: One of Australia’s loneliest
graves must be that of an unknown English-
woman on the north-eastern point of almost
uninhabited Moreton Island, off the coast
of S. Queensland. The woman, who was a
passenger on The Queen of the Colonies, an
immigrant ship, in 1863, died as the vessel
was nearing Moreton Bay. A request was
made by her husband, who was also on
board, that the body be buried on land.
Accordingly a party, including the husband,
landed on Moreton Island in one of the
ship’s boats and buried the body there. On
the return journey a storm drove the. boat
out of sight of the ship, and for many days
nothing was heard of it. A steamer was
sent from Brisbane to search the coast, and
the wrecked boat was found on a beach at
the locality now known as Caloundra. On
going ashore a carving was noticed on a
pandanus-tree, “The Queen of the Colonies
—1563.” The party was found near by in
a bad state after 14 days of exposure. One
man (the husband of the woman whose body
had been buried) had been drowned when
the boat was wrecked. The tree with the
carving still stands.
GIVING NOTHING AWAY.
PEDESTRIAN (to sandwich-board man): “Excuse me, but do you know your boards
are turned inside out?”
ANGUS McMEANUS: “Ah ken that weel, but Ah’m no’ gangin’ tae wurruk for any
blinkin’ boss in ma lunch-hour.”
“A.G.R.” : Had a queer-experience while
looking over an old mine at Black Flag
(W.A.). There is a tunnel which runs
into the side of a hill for about 800 ft. and
then branches where they drove to cut the
reef. It is wonderfully solid, being cut
through granite and jasper. Whore it
branched my companion and I went one
each way to explore. I saw what I took to
be a lump of ironstone liung.ug from the
roof. When I got closer I noticed a queer
smell, and then I saw it move. I reckoned
it was better dead than alive, wliacever it
was, so I ran back to the main tunnel and
called my mate, who was carrying a rifle.
We made our way back, and when I saw it
again, he held the candles while I fired. In-
stantly there was a sound like noth.ng on
earth, and the air was full of the rush of
wings and shrill squeals. We had fired into
a huge cluster of bats. We turned to clear
out and then the fun started. The bats we
had disturbed awakened other clusters and
they came in thousands, and their flapping
kept putting our candles out. When we got
to tin* corner and could see daylight ahead,
we dropped the candles and made a bolt
for it, arriving outside with bats in pockets,
sleeves, trousers and shirts. I’ll never dis-
turb bats again.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : Whales are rare visitants to Port
Phillip, but one tired sea wanderer in-
spected the Williamstown baths the other
day, having apparently mistaken
the season of the year. There is
still a resident living in Williams-
town who remembers a heroic
struggle with a 40-footer. Six
men in a whaleboat made fast at
seven in the morning. The rest
of the day they spent careering
at amazing speed in the wake of
the anguished beast all over the
bay. Just at nightfall their game,
having towed them to the vicinity
of the Heads, decided to make for
the open sea, so they dec'ded to go
home to their anxious wives. The
body was washed up later at Rye.
“Trapper”; A recent Bulletin reference
to the appearance of a muskrat colony
near Gu’lford in England reminds me that
the matter was made the subject of a Par-
liamentary question. The representative of
Agriculture announced that his department
was making every effort to exterminate the
Guilford colony and another in Scotland,
both founded for fur-breeding. The rat men-
ace is a real one, for in Central Europe,
where they have of late made much headway,
the beasts have been responsible for an
immense amount of damage in destroying
foundations of bridges and embankments
with their tunneling operations, besides caus-
ing floods.. Anyone thinking of introducing
a muskrat industry to Australia had better
not.
:|: * :!; .
“Brady’s Lookout”: It can be cold in
Tassy; but the big freeze in 1536 that
killed all the big timber in the lake country
has never been equalled since. The nearest
approach to it was one that killed wattles
and tea-trees in a big area of that country
a few years ago. Travellers by the new
West Coast road can see a sample by the
roadside in the big dead wattles, some a
foot through, on the Dee hill. But the
more recent big frost was not cold enough
to hurt the gum-trees. The migiity gums
killed in ’36 were a sight worth seeing-
miles and miles of them, standing white
and bare. When I saw them as a boy, in
1882, many had fallen. Huge trees they
were. The gums growing in that part now
are all under a century in age.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The ravens that fed El'jah
have their Australian counterparts. A re-
port by the Victorian County Roads Board
states that, instead of being exterminated
by recent heavy snowfalls which prevented
them from reaching grass and other food,
the rabbits which infest the Victor.an Alps
HE’D OWNED THAT SORT BEFORE.
SECONDHAND-CAR SALESMAN : “You’ll find this car a first-class job, sir”
CLIENT: “Yes, and very nearly a full-time one, by the look of it."
are fat and flourishing. Investigation has
shown that bunny, after tunneling through
the deep snow from his burrow, hops ever
the 10ft. drifts to the nearest bunch of snow
gums. At this time of the year these are
laden with gumnuts, and the gang-ig&ng
cockatoos, which are plentiful on the Alps,
come every day to feed on them. They are
untidy feeders and drop as much as they
eat. Bunny gets the crumbs from the
gang-gang’s table.
:!: * ' * *
“Tano Fama” : In Rarotonga, gaol is popu-
lar. A convict who recently escaped from
a road-working gang induced a companion
outside the prison to join him in gaol. To
accomplish this they stole some goods from
a leading firm, then set the store on
fire. This was the first fire that had occur-
red on the island for 50 years, and it started
an epidemic of incendiarism, The natives
who set fire to the store were arrested and
sentenced to five and ten years’ imprison-
ment respectively, much to their joy. But,
alas! the Government arranged with the
M.L. authorities for the culprits to serve
their time in a Dominion gaol, and their
rejoicings were turned to lamentations.
* Sc s= *
“Hamer” : Fourteen hundred cockroaches
were wanted by Melbourne Uni., and, in
response to an advertised offer of a ha’penny
each, the want was supplied in a few hours.
The only surprising thing about, that is that
it. was thought necessary to advertise. In
the neighborhood around Sydney Uni. the
small boys- lay themselves out to supply
scientific requirements. When there is any
special demand the-news spreads like wild-
fire, and there is a procession of boys to-
wards the Uni. The usual requisition is for
mice, and there are more boy-owned white
mice and guinea-pig colonies around that dis-
trict than in all the rest of Sydney. The
local small boy is also a mighty hunter of
frogs; and when he goes abroad in the bush
lie keeps a, keen lookout for snakes and
unusual spiders.
$ 9 * #
“Taniwha” : A new explanation of a yarn
Abel Tasman took back with him to Amster-
dam after his voyage to Maoriland in 1643
was broached at a recent meeting of the
Wellington Historical Society. Tasman de-
clared that on the biggest island of what are
now known as the Three Kings—the Maoris
call it Manawa Tawlii—he and his crew saw
what they took to be gigantic natives, about
35 of them, armed with long sticks, who
called out in very loud, rough voices. The
island afforded no landing-place, and Tas-
man only a fortnight previously had lost
three of his men in an encounter with the
fierce Maoris, so he made no further inves-
tigation and sailed away. Some member of
his party made a sketch of the scene, which
was later done into a steel engraving. The
engraving gives a panoramic view of all the
islands, indicating that Tasman’s observa-
tions were made from a distance of four or
five miles. It is now suggested that what
he saw was not human giants—there are no
traces of such in Maoriland —but bird giants
—the mighty moas. Moa bones have been
found on Manawa Tawlii; the moa is known
to have been partial to hilltops, and Maori
legend is eloquent concerning the birds’
hoarse loud cry. At a great distance the long
necks might have been mistaken for the
“long sticks” of Tasman's narrative, and
the bushy plumage of the bird for those
feathery dresses in which the Maoris often
garbed themselves. T. Lindsay Buick, of
Wellington, who has for years been collating
evidence regarding the moa, places the
earliest possible date of the moa’s disappear-
ance at 1685—40 years after Tasman’s visit
—and there is some fairly credible Maori
testimony, obtained at first hand by Governor
Grey, that the great bird was still extant
and being hunted as late as 1790 or 1800.
So Tasman’s reputation as a truthful and
careful observer, somewhat tarnished by
that lapse into giants, may have been
groundlessly assailed.
“Mundowie”: Touching the punt which
the Clarence River bridge has put out of
commission (B. 27/7/’32), Grafton's first
ferry in the big-scrub days was a rowing
craft. Horsemen put their saddles in it
and swam their horses alongside or astern.
They paid the boatman ss. each. A hand-
worked punt followed, laboriously hauled to
and fro with a wire. In 1562 the first steam
punt was introduced. This was worked by
a chain, which made a noise that could be
heard a mile away. Sometimes the chain
broke, and the punt and its passengers
drifted down the river. Getting the craft
back and repairing the cable was a long
job. When the North Coast railway was
completed to Casino the wide Clarence was
the broken link, and the locomotive was run
to the punt and carried across the river to
pull a train waiting on the other bank. An-
other ferry—the Dobie-street punt, named
after Dr. Dobie. a pioneer squatter —oper-
ated at the lower end of the town. I spent
a whole day on that snail-craft crossing
cattle. My job was to perch on one side
whilst another drover perched on the other
side to keep the nervous beasts off 1 the flimsy
rails. /
* * * *
“Erua”: Maoriland has possessed several
historic meres (B. 27/7/’32), but the most
famous has left the scene of its doughty
deeds and lies in the British Museum. This
is the mere of the great chief Te Whero
Whero, a weapon described as being
fashioned of the kahurangi, the finest green-
stone, with a thin transparent edge that
testifies to the generations of rubbing the
hard stone has received. The weapon was
six times buried with ancestors, but was
always retrieved to again bring honor to
the tribe. Te Whero Whero once had 250
prisoners of war brought before him, one
by one. In each case the bloodthirsty old
villain cleft the skull of the kneeling victim
with a single blow from the knife-edged mere.
WATTLE GOLD
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Down where a spring rill dashes,
Proudly the wattles stand,
Touched with the fire that splashes
Only from Nature’s hand.
And many a bright wing flashes,
Many a story’s told,
Under the shade when the sward is made
Gay with the wattle gold.
Gem of the wild that blesses
Valley and woodland ways.
Nought that the wind caresses
Rivals your wonder sprays,
Spilling from fluffy tresses,
Ever as they grow old,
Softly around on the sheltered ground,
Showers of wattle gold.
Gilding the crag and cranny,
Flaring in forest gloom,
Memories fond and many
Cling in your boughs and bloom ;
Echoes of love and any
Treasures the dead years hold,
Wake, as the breeze and the humming bees
Scatter the wattle gold.
Dear to the bushland rover
In days when the spring wind blows,
And many a gay-plumed lover
Comes where the small rill flows,
Seeking the scented cover.
And e’er, as your charms unfold,
Helping to spread from your radiant head
Carpets of wattle gold.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DIT&dOTS *
■ JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
H°n. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
™94S THUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birckin Lane, Lombard Street, E 0.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and at Canberra
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia, and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
_ . Ah Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Rvan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— H. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
\V ith offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank otters the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
\ ,
plpl
‘W J
....
w
b
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH!
“When tlie winter of the farmers’ discontent has
passed, Ireland will present a more cheerful front.”
—De Valera.
“In the spring a livelier Irish,” as Tenny-
son didn’t put it.
y- %•
“Belief in a material Hell is no longer hold. - ’
Exactly. We’re even reducing the wages
of sin.
* -V-
-ENGLAND’S 1952 TEST XI.
Nawab of Shampoo (Oxford), Captain.
Allahiballah Wum (Cambridge), vfce-
captain.
StibKadai- Abraca Dabra (Notts).
Yakab of Glub (Hants).
Nabob of Whoosh (Lancs.).
Maharajah Pikmeup (Worcester).
O. Yu Ivow (Kent).
Nizam of Suffrinkats (Surrey).
Prince Yashmak of Yolio (Essex).
Golly (Yorks).
Chnnda (Middlesex).
S. W. K.
' *
VINDICATED.
The boy stood on the burning deck —
All felt inclined to clap.
He had appeared before the wreck
A most stand-offish chap.
* H-
“The passengers peered out into the night, which
was now overcast, but lit by the beams of a Gib-
bons moon.” — “Sun.”
So called after Grinling Gibbons, who did
his best work when the moon was gibbous.
"They say she wears the trousers.”
"Well, what can you expect when a girl
young enough to wear pyjamas marries
a. man old enough to wear a night-
dress?”
“Britain should maintain her policy of cheap
money and exchange stability.”— Melb. “Herald.”
“All very well,” commented the Saloon Bar
economics authority shrewdly, “but what is
she going to exchange stability for?”
* *
“British leaders at Ottawa are said to be express-
ing disappointment at the refusal of the Canadian
Cabinet to grant more concessions to Britain.”
— Cable.
And Kipling is said to have re-christened
the place “Lady of the Snows.”
FORESTALLING TROUBLE.
“Divorce is preventable.” —“Sunday Sun.”
Why seek the absolution of the Court
Where barristers unhappy husbands harry ?
Prevention's better than a cure, we’re taught:
The best prevent ire here is not to marry.
P. O. M. C.
* *
WHEN DOES SPRING BEGIN?
An infallible harbinger is the sight of
the bookie overhauling and burnishing his
bag, and testing its weight-carrying capa-
city in anticipation
of offerings at the
Big Meetings. Con-
currently, he may be
seen closely studying
the latest limousine
models.
Spinsters may be
observed at this time
.surreptitiously read-
ing Michael Arlen;
whilst goofy young
men with Marcel
waves react to the
rising sap by in-
creasing the royal-
ties of jazz writers.
Also the amateur
gardener once again
commences his hope-
less annual struggle
against pests (in-
cluding gasteropoda,
pulmonata, lepidop-
tera, dogs, the child-
ren and his wife’s
relatives) and once
more gets out his
lawnmower and tries
bitterly to de-rust it.
The man who has
been married 15
years or over might
be deemed immune.
Not so. Strangely
enough, he is one of
the first to become
aware that the sea-
son of seasons has
arrived. It synchro
nises with the new frock and hat displays
and the appearance of his income-tax assess-
ments.
S. W. K.
* *
“Between Sydney Central Railway Station and
Martin-place, I counted 23 people with hands out-
stretched for alms.”
The paw have we always with us.
* *
“These ‘Johnnies-come-lately’ are less in evidence
now than they were a few years ago.”
True, worse luck! Australia has seen
fewer Johnnies come, lately.
*
ANOTHER MYSTERY HIKE.
A carefree army of hikers to the number
of 14,000, and comprising lovers of the great
out-of-doors ranging in age from Mr Alf
(“Dad”) Dodder, J.P., of Croydon (93).
to little Rosy Dribble, of Cronulla (2J)’
trudged off for an unknown destination last
Sunday to the inspiring strains of a speci-
ally-composed “Aussie Hikers’ Anthem” :
Oh, Baby, come for a Mystery Hike;
Vou, sure, the experience will like.
Hiking thru the treeses,
Showing your calves and kneeses.
Oh. oh!
Baby, give it a go!
Don’t take a motor-car, don’t take a bike,
But hike! hike! hike!
As the pleasure-seekers shuffled in mass (or
bargain-sale) formation from suburb to
suburb along what the locals call The Ever-
dusts (after The Everglades of Florida) the
talk was all of corn-cures. One was for
“Smitho’s Salve,” another for “Brown’s
Banishit,” and so on ; and ever above their
joyous voices one heard the eerie bushlaud
cries: “Peanuts, thrippence a bag”: “Chok-
litz,” etc., etc.
Halt Called.
A halt was called at the first of the
specially-organised “BusHland Hot Dog-
Stands,” 14 miles out, the whole of the enter-
prising proprietor’s stock being immediately
devoured by the First Thousand, as the
Storm Troops of the Hikers’ Army are
known. The feat was repeated by the First
Thousand all along the route (proving the
healthy appetites of hiking enthusiasts),
greatly to the irritation of Mr. Dodder and
Rosy Dribble’s parents, who were bringing
up the rear.
Hikers’ Funeral.
The Bald Hill Cemetery was reached at
noon, and here the Rev. Limelite was found
waiting reverently to conduct a Genuine
Hiker s Burial Service. Deceased contracted
his fatal illness before hiking reached Aus-
tralia. but he hiked between his home and
tram for over 40 years, which shows he had
the right spirit. After an impressive ser-
vice an attempt to take up a collection soon
sent the health-fans on their way again.
“Dad” Dodder, arriving in a famished state
by tram half an hour later, was enraged
when the plate was offered to him, but the
minister’s ready tact averted a scene.
Future Hiker’s Baptism.
From grave to gay. The next item was a
baptism at picturesque Stony Creek, where
the hikers, now reduced in numbers by some
5000, again found Rev. Limelite awaiting
them. It transpired that the indefatigable
pastor had preceded them by ’plane. Stand-
ing by a bassinette, prettily framed in frag-
rant gum-leaves, be expressed regret that
that grand old hiker Mr. Dodder bad had
to be removed to hospital by ambulance, and
then called for the photographers and fell
to his congenial task. After the child —a
"That sir is my conception of Eve eating the apple in the
Garden of Eden.”
“Ah, capital! The first apple arid the first, peach,”
girl—had been named Pedestria Hika Smith,
amid' a solemn, not to say tragic silence, the
return hike was embarked on. And so, as
the shades of eve were falling, the laughing,
bright-eyed throng entrained (20-30 to a
carriage) and were whirled back to civilisa-
tion, the better spiritually and socially, as
well as physically, for their all-too-brief com-
mune with the lonely grandeurs of Mother
Nature.
D. J.
* *
THE LEISURED LIFE.
“Circumstances compel some people to holiday in
winter.”
Apply The Chalet, Mt. Buffalo, National
Park.
“Also, Circumstances compel some people to holi-
day in summer, autumn, winter and spring.”
Apply Coupon House, Dole-avenue.
“Furthermore, Circumstances make it possible for
some people to holiday all their lives.”
Apply Parliament House , any Australian
State.
11. J. 11.
* *
newer and better golf.
I have never tackled the kind of golf that
you see elderly men playing in comic clothes
in every Sydney suburb, and pray Heaven
I never may! But city golf is quite an-
other thing. I was only introduced to its
charms a few weeks ago, yet they are already
talking of me as a scratch man in embryo.
I seem to have a natural gift, like Jim
I erner.
In city golf there is no need to wear a
white linen cap or check bloomers. Any
costume will do, and you tee up and hit off
where you like. Say the Australia. Tim
first hole is the Surry. It’s a medium (or
tankard) shot,' which can be done in
one, taken before you start. However, vet-
erans often take two on liot days. There’s
a stiff bunker at this hole —the Britannia.
The penalty is two if you drop in. Several
greens, all in the best of order and offering
a sporting range of shots, now present them-
selves. The Bettingtons of the game usually
plump for Belfield’s ; a long drive down the
fairway in tram or taxi (or you can walk)
with a brace of bunkers on the way.
The true sport will now break away from
George-street. The country to test a play-
er’s thirst and staying power lies on the
Darling Harbor side of the course. It con-
tains every conceivable problem for the city
golfer except water hazards. There is a
bunker near the quay (the Black-and-White)
(hat has defeated thousands. Direction is
essential in ordinary golf, I understand:
it is more or less immaterial in city golf.
Just keep moving and avoid soda-fountain
traps. The whole idea is to do 18 hotels
(and the bunker bars in between) before
0 p.m.
Bloggs and I only did five holes, legiti-
mately speaking, on the day I had my first
lesson ; but there wore 17 bunkers, and one
bunker led to another, so to speak, so that
we had actually done 27, and were driving
(or. to be accurate, reeling) down near the
Bridge, when we should have .been playing
the short 12tli (an easy gin-and-bitters) by
the railway station.
It’s a game I intend to persevere with.
I’ll be full of pride, joy, etc. etc., on the
day I complete the 18 holes without getting
arrested.
P.P.
“English bowling, without a bowlers’ wicket i-
lamentably weak.” — Cable.
Paradoxically, it can only be pasted when
tin- wicket is not sticky.
*
THE REMINDER.
The land salesman winced as lm watched
the talkie; a story of repentance and re-
morse—of a man making good after his
misdoings.
The villain was now seeking the aged man
whom he had robbed of his all. intending
to make restitution: And the land salesman
suddenly thought of a similar white-haired
galoot to whom he had sold a dozen blocks
in the “Sea View” estate —charging him £3
■i foot when they were worth approximately
2s. 6d. It had been so easy, too—the bid man
was so confiding, so simple. Now the hero-
villain was repaying. his ill-gotten gains....
In a sudden surge of emotion the land
salesman shot from his seat. Leaping into
a taxi he sought the home of his venerable
victim. Yes, his man was at homo. ...
Twenty minutes later he descended the
front steps. On his face was a smile of
relief, in his hand a cheque.
“Glad I saw that film,” he murmured. “If
it hadn’t reminded me of the old fool I
might have been left with the last dozen
blocks in that dud ‘Sea View’ estate!”
T. P. P».
*£ %
“Books brought from Russia were seized by the
Sydney Customs.”
Taken as Red.
* *
•“The new German Government is quite unper-
turbed.” “Al {/'ll'’."
Even the elections didn’t put them out.
y.
“Now that anaesthetics have been used for -o
long, no one could die of freight of them.”
—“Herald."
All the same, freight these days is liable
to give a man a very nasty shook.
"Before we were married you used to call
me your morning ray of sunshine."
"Yes—and you turned out a sloppy, wet
day.”
NOCTURNE.
The hurricane dies down. Upon the mat
Before the fire reclines a careworn cat,
4 shattered mug beside his head, his feet
Reposing in indifference complete
Upon some rice. 'Two weary women pass
Prom room. to room, and pick up bits of
glass,
Stray shoes, a hat, a pound or so of coal,
.4 dozen books, and what was once a bowl:
.4 china bowl worth thirty bob or more.
One of them shuts, with bated breath, a
door.
Creeps to a sofa > and with drooping head,
Listens—and hopes. The kid has gone to
bed.
D.
PLAINT.
My love is like a red rose-tree
That early spring adorns;
And. to complete the simile,
Her temper is like thorns.
T.W.N.
ENGINE TROUBLE.
“Let •us all combine in a great prosperity drive.’*
— Mr. Lyons.
The 'bus of State is on the, road;
Springs strain and creak beneath the load;
The unemployed on board are stowed —
Each workless lad, each idle lass.
The thing will go on keeping still
And progress, in the sum, be nil
So long as those in politics
Contribute nothing but the gas!
T. B.


ŵ
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Erip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Vounger Crescent, Cauitieia,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
TALLOW MANUFACTURERS.
A BOMBAY indenting firm very well con-
nected with nearly twenty textile mills
and almost all leading soap factories in
India, urgently desires sole representation
from a leading and reliable maker of tallow
in Australia. Best of references will be
furnished. Please apply No. 243, care
“ Syd noy BuUetin.”
I WOODS' 111
II GREAT II
PEPPERMINT
I CUREH
For Coughs, Colds, I I
and Influenza.
I The Unrivalled Remedy j|(g
PREMIER STE VEN S says that his Govern-
ment intends to reopen some of the three
or four dosed mines at Broken Hill if it can
be done. “THE BARRIER MINER” has shown
a way by which it can-be done without cost-
ing the Government anything, and without
anything that can be truly called inflation of
the currency, while taking a couple of thousand
men off the dole. That’s what “THE BARRIER
MINER” has been doing at Broken Hill for
41 years—giving ideas to Governments, etc.
The population of Broken Hill is round 25,000,
and the circulation of “The Barrier Miner”
is round 5000 daily. Greatest sales west of
Alburv,
I^ARMERS...
|m RuralTopics.Dairying.
Stockbreeding. Poultry
Horticulture. Veterinary
■ Notes Etc ....All in ..
■THE AUSTRALASIAN
*ON SALE ALL STATES <5!
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
ẁ
SCHUTE,
BELL&O ud.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officei: 41 Bridge Streer, Sydney.
Amusements.
1. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
Williamson Imperial Grand Opera Co.
KING’S THEATRE:
MARGARET RAWLINGS in
DR. PYGMALION.
Sugar is comparatively dearer in
Europe than here in Australia
m
&
/
-
1
6
47
m
I,
N?
Dear Fellow Countrymen:
One of the main difficulties that we sugar growers have
to meet is the utterly wrong information that so many
Southern people possess about our industry. Their facts
are all wrong, so how can they come to a just opinion?
Take two erroneous opinions widely held. One is that the
industry enjoys a bounty or subsidy. The other is that
Sugar costs far more in Australia than in Europe. Both
are utterly wrong.
The Sugar Industry enjoys no bounty or subsidy. It never
lias. People who write to the contrary simply do not
know what they are writing about.
As to prices, the average retail price of sugar in five
leading European countries is 4£d. lb. sterling. The retail
price in the capital cities of Australia is 4^d.
So you see that, though all our expenses are on the Aus-
tralian scale —high wages, high freights, high taxes —you
pay very little more for our pure cane sugar than the
Frenchman or the German—with a lower standard of
living—pays for his beet sugar.
Yours truly,
A SUGAR GROWER
inserted bu the.
Sugar Groiuers of Australia
for the information, of the S/eople
Write to the Australian Sugar Producers’ Association, Ltd., P.O. Box 608 J, Brisbane, or The Queensland Cane
Growers’ Council, P.O. Box 1032 N, Brisbane, for a copy of an interesting and informative book, entitled:
“The Australian Sugar Industry.”
SHADOW SHOWS.
ln “On Our Selection,” at Sydney Capitol,
Australians are offered a film which is as
local as quartpots, cracking stockwhips,
drought- and mortgage-squashed settlers,
picnic-races, flies and the bird-symphony at
dawn. Its foundations are laid in bellow-
drarna. We find the money-hungry pluto-
crat (Lon Budriek), who comes along at
awkward intervals waggling bills in Dad’s
snowy beard ; his fair-faced, black-hearted
son (John Warwick), with designs on virtu-
ous Kate (Molly Raynor), and the hero
(Dick Fair), as open as the sunny plains,
yet suspected of murdering the vil-
lain. But they take on renewed glamor
from their environment. The situations are
familiar to playgoers. They know that the
parson will call when there’s nothing to
eat in the shanty; that Dad, taking pigs
to market, will fall backwards into the river
with them: that the bull will burst up
Dave’s ’appy ’ome, but retreat before his
ma-in-law, and that Billy Bearup will come
hanging round Sarah just when Dad hap-
pens to be handling his gun. But each epi-
sode is funny—funnier, perhaps, on the screen
than on the stage. There are five old origi-
nals in this picture: Bert Bailey and his
superb foils, “Mother” Alfmla Bevan and
“Dave”—christened Fred MacDonald, but
really more Dave now than he ever was
Fred ; Lily (Lilias Adesou), Dave’s girl, and
dear ohl “Uncle” Willie Driscoll, looking as
bedraggled as Geo. R, would if he ever went
on a bender. Molly Raynor is Kate, and
there are “Sarah” Bobbie Beaumont, and
“Joe” Ossie Wenban to round off the Rudd
family. Also there’s Dad's cobber Maloney
(Jack McGowan), whose fly veil got a round
of applause all to itself, and Cranky Jack
(Fred Kerry) at hand to clear Sandy when
arrested at the barn dance. The dialogue is
crisp, the sound synchronises, and the photo-
graphy is a joy.
* * *
“The Rich Are Always with Us,” at Syd-
ney Plaza, is about the best vehicle Ruth
Chatterton has had for the display of her
gifts as a screen actress. She is a billion-
airess, no longer young, and good rather than
beautiful. John Miljan, her husband, is
stolen by a flapper (Adrienne Dore makes
the designing wench appropriately detest-
able), and is given a Paris divorce without
a recriminatory word. Presently her love-
starved heart turns to George Brent. Bette
Davis, another flapper, loves Brent, but is
too nice to be nasty about it; Adrienne, on
the other hand, boils with jealousy of the
popular and virtuous Ruth. Here the story
goes nonsensical for a while. Ruth
and Brent spend the night together.
There is no valid reason for it, psycho-
logically speaking, both being strong on
self-restraint and of low emotional pres-
sure. Some minor banalities in the next
sequence arc a close-up of Brent’s boots
(surely the most humorless shot on record),
and a presentation of the pair after a night
of amorous dalliance on a sofa, he without
a crease in his evening-dress tie, she with
her permanent wave unblemished. There
arc complications, including a car smash,
designed to stress further the worthless
nature of the husband-stealer and the
nobility of her victim, and then Ruth and
Brent; get married. It is one of those lavish
productions which must be first-class pub-
licity for Bolshevism. The principals drip
with money. For a roulette party at the
heroine’s home a man-sized bar with saw-
dusted floor complete is improvised. Would
the trite little story have interested Ilolly-
wood if it had been about the virtuous wife
of an errant milkman? Not in the least.
Its luxury scenes are its justification, and
they are certainly very well done.
The first part of the Plaza bill is interest-
ing, as usual.
* * *
Despite its length and sentimentalism, “The
Wet Parade,” at Sydney State, is a command-
ing film. It reveals the drinking that went on
in the U.S.A. before the passing of the 18th
Amendment and the equal amount that goes
on now. The yarn begins on a Louisiana
plantation, where old Roger Chilcote chooses a
pigstye in which to cut the thirsty throat that
has brought him to ruin. The old fellow
always had a grim sense of humor. It turns
his daughter Maggie into a Prohibitionist.
Years after young Roger goes blind on a
bootleg blend, and Maggie meets Kip, a
teetotaller with a dipsomaniacal father. De-
prived of decent liquor, the oldster takes to
liooch and murders his wife. Kip becomes
a Prohibition agent, but eventually drops
the work in despair. Moral: You can’t
change human nature. A huge cast, includ-
ing such topnotchers as Dorothy Jordan,
Lewis Stone, Neil Hamilton, Walter Huston,
Jimmy Durante and Robert Young, inter-
prets this 11,150 feet booze epic.
“It’s Tough to be Famous,” at Sydney
Regent, shows what may happen to a naval
officer in the U.S.A. who saves the lives of
a submarine crew. Done; Fairbanks, jmi.,
is the hero. After an elaborate reception
he is bustled by a go-getting manager through
a series of banquets and other public appear-
ances. He speaks over the air. gives his
autograph to thousands, writes testimonials
for advertisers of motor-cars and other
goods, is interviewed, photographed and gen-
erally degraded. The vulgar asses who are
working his publicity stunts nearly succeed
iii estranging him from his wife, and simul-
taneously another person of moron-wide in-
terest shoulders him off the front page. It
is shrewd social criticism and extremely well
acted.
“Shoot. Duru Yuli”: Touching the expres-
sion of the subconscious mind in film art
(B. l/G/’32). The most remarkable I have
seen was in an American silent picture. In
order to convey that the poor herowliine
was “expecting” the chaste producer threw
on a close-up of one eye which filled the
entire end of the theatre. Into the iris
slowly crawled the image of a baby. It is
to be presumed that the other eye was blank
or the inference would have been that twins
were prognosticated.
“Cramer”: G. B. Shaw has eaved-in t >
the movie producers since his personally-
directed “How He Lied to Her Husband"
was such a heavy frost. “Arms and th ■
Man” is to be filmed by British International
Pictures in its own way.


BOORS
THAT WILL INTEREST YOU
Teaching Iris Auction Bridge, 3/9: Contract Bridge for Iris, 3/9; Stories from the
Operas, 5/6; Ciieiro Guide to tile Hand, 4/1; Candy Cookery Book, 9/-; Universal
Cooiu r.v Book, 1000 Ree pes—Wo Recommend It, 1/3; Official Rules of Card Games
(lloyle l p to Dale). 2/S: Bracticul Cartooning for Profit, by Farrow, 6/4; Physical
Culture Simplified—A Complete Course,
: Nature's Way. 1 ; Practical Birth
Control, by E. A. Hornibrook, a/!): Bulletin
Keeitei. 2/2: Bulletin Book of Humorous
\erses, 1/2; Canoes. Dinghies and Sailing
Punts, 2, it; llovv to Drive a Car - —Complete
Cuide and Handbook. :’> !l; Mayo’s Aus-
tralian Builders’ Price Book, 15/0; Fresh-
water Aquaria, by Bateman. 10/!): Aust.
Book of Uead.v-made Speeches and Toasts,
'•'</- ; Mechanical Year Pocket Book, 1 «)«:>,
•V-; The Modern Diesel Engine— High-
speed Compression Engines, 4/0; Married
CALVERT’S
Mechanics Almanack, 1932.
Practical, Technical and Industrial
knowledge for Mechanical, Electrical
and Gas Engineering; also Building
and Construction Trades.
Price, 1/1
Love, |»y Marie stupes, 3/3; Contraeeption. Ruth Control. Its Theory. History and
Fraetiee, hy Marie Slopes. 22/4: Etiquette in Every-day Life. 1/6; Henley's 20th
Century Keeipes. 38/6; Compression ignition Engines for Road Vehicles. 4/7;
Rudgerigars and Cockatiels. h.v C. I*. Arthur. 1 -'ll: Ferrets and Ferreting. Breeding,
Managing. Training and Working, hy W. ]>. Drury, 2/8: Gears and Gear-cutting.
l'ages. 7(i Illustrations. Kt Tables. 7/10: Engineering Workshop Manual for
Fitters Turners and General Machinists, hy E. Full, 4/1: Text Book of Applied
Mechanics, with Numerous D.agrams and Examples, hy Cryer and Jordan, 7/11;
Motor Cycles and How to Manage Them. 25th Edition. 4/7; Speed and How to
JUST OUT! Don’t Fail to Read
HELL’S DOORWAY
By F. J. TH WAITES,
AUTHOR OF BROKEN MISLODV.
•Story of a young Medical Student. who was mailo a Plaything
ORDER NOW. PRICE, 6/6, posted.
01* lit in It, by Harwood. 3rd Edition. Largely Rewritten. 4/7: The Callender steam
'tables, with Steam Diagram in Pockel. by 11. L. Callender. 5/3: Enlarged Callender
Steam Tables (Fahrenheit l nitsi. by ii. L. Callender. 11 1; Working Steam Rollers
lor Use of Boiler Attendants, and Those in Charge, bv 10. <l. 1 lillier 5 r,• \t 4M |ei-n
Lacquer Finishing, by V. A. Rose. 3/8; Prospecting for Gold < Australian i . bv 1.
Idness, 5/3; Ilow to Repair and Rest ring Tinnis Racquets, •!/-: Everyman His own
Mechanic, 0/-:, Sound Projection (liluMraterf) by It. Miehling, 3ft/»; The Sheep and
H °ol Industry in Austial'.a and New Zealand, for Sheep- farmers and Wooidassers. bv
11. B. Smith, 13/-; Anstralasian Sheep and Wool, by Alfred 1 lawkesworth. 26/-j
Fowler’s Mechanics and
Machinists Pocket Book.
A synopsis of Practical liules for
Fitters, Turners. Millwrights..
Erectors, Patternmakers, Foundry
men, Draughtsimui. Apprentices,
Students. Price. :! A
Also
Fowier’s Electrical En»iii33;j
Pocket Boo!:, 1322.
5/6 posted,
Uc.v to Train a KaOeliorse —Australian
Hor.-e Talk for Men, by V*'. Muggridge,
■is K; Motor-boat Manual. ■>/-: Motor-Cycle
Miim.al. 1/7: Sound Film Reproduction-
Out. Special Reference to lifitish
Practice, (i/4: Beautiful Women—Prints
aiui Paintings irom Paris Salon, witlt
Verse, S/8; Norman Lindsay’s Pen Draw-
ings. Many of Which arc Out of Print, 5/4:
Painting and Decorating. Working Methods
for Apprentice, journeyman. Housepainter.
Decorator. 2nd Edition. 13/3: Commercial
Art and Cartooning, by Matthews. 12 U;
Br.cklaying and Simple Building for
Amateurs, 1/11: Furniture Repairing tor Amateurs. 1 11; Painting. Distempering an<l
l*aperhanging lor Amateurs. Ill; Wireless ivbrary. tor tlie Man in the .street, l/l 1
each— Electrified Mat ter. Selection of Wirel, ss Signals. Wireless Deceiving Sets. .Mag-
netism and Electro -Magnetism.-Modern Valves, How to Understand "Wireless Diagrams,
Ueproductibn of Wireless Signals. Detection of Wirejess Signals.
WRITE FOR \SY HOOK YOU MAY REQUIRE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Booksellers, Librarians, Tobacconists, Stationers, Newsagents, Kodak Suppliers,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
Wha fan improvement few
Cyclone Gates make/
nlr , {
-: -y3<, .'T3rr j, " | ■
WP
- —^—acsuQ^-”*
VV
■• ./*
V? " k
Cyclone Gates are the finishing neat touch to a well-
kept property. Makeshift wooden or wood-and-wire
gates soon strain and sag out of true. Have to be
scraped, shoved or lifted open. They are not stock-
proof
Cyclone Gates look after themselves. And your stock.
They’re practically everlasting. Need no maintenance.
Cannot swing out of true. One solid electrically-
welded piece of steel tubing reinforced with twisted
and interwoven Cyclone wire. Ready painted!
Ready to work!
Write for special Catalogue illustrating and explaining
all about Cyclone Gates.
L.ncume
CYCLONE FENCE & CATE CPPTYItd
24 JAMIESON STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, and Adelaide.
lull
Please send me by return mail-your tree illustrated and, priced Catalogue of “Cyclone" Metal
Gates and Ring*Lock Fences and comparison of costs
NAME ; - _ ~ _ _ - -
ADDRESS _ _ . . B. 17/8/’32.
sssK
«;»=Sti“iKa!
swasi
B*-
Jt,
£*?»
SSSg4i
ON
o
Z 2»
s»
O
o
o
H
Pi!
g£>
'Vk
pO
O-CLOCK
DOUBLE EDGED
// X MADE IN ENGLAND
How they are rushing to
try these new Seven
o’clock blades! And how
they are praising them! So
keen that they seem only
to glide over the
smooth that they seem to
caress the skin. Never was
so much comfort packed
into a safety razor blade.
And the price -—five of
these blades for a shilling
andsixpence! Get a
packet of Seven o’clock
blddes fbr your double-
edged razor to-day. Every
dealer sells them.
Of Incalculable Value
to the Athlete, the Man or
Woman over Forty, the Weak-
est Child, the Modern Girl!
ẃ
ẅ
“CLASSIC’’
Home Rowboat
EXERCISER
Row! Reduce! Rejuvenate!
Scientific exercising for all
v members of the family !
The "Classic” Home Rowboat Exerciser is
not experimental. It is a rational system of
physical exercise for old and young, approved
md pndcrsrd by the medical profession and
HivsHal culturists the world over. Apart from
bringing every muscle of the human anatomy
into play and strengthening the internal org-
ans, the rhvthmical rowing motion is a
mental stimulus.
Price
65/-
Super Athlete’s
Model
77/6
© It is strong enough to stand any pull.
O It is built to stand hard wear.
Q The springs always return to their normal condition.
® It is adjustable to any size person.
0 It can be used on an\ floor —the rubber buffers give
steadiness and prevent floor-marking.
See it demonstrated in the Gymnasium Section on the Ground Floor.
(Freight extra on Rowboat Exerciser)
All Letters to Box 18 8. P. 0.. Haymarket, Sydney
Mick Simmons Lm
720-2 CEORCE STREET. HATMARKET. SYDNEY
'The Premier Sports House of Australia ”


zac
CELL
°OIV
ERf
r-
UIA
BP*o
SlLf
BAt
t erv
&
SERVICE
The gruelling and exacting battery service demanded
by Broadcasting stations can only be satisfactorily
given by Diamonds.
That is why Diamonds are used by the leading Broad-
casting stations of Australia. Their long life and
amazingly rapid recuperation guarantee dependable
and economical performance.
For the same reasons leading set manufacturers, the
P.M.G.’s Department, the Victorian Railways Signal-
ling Division, and the Navy choose Diamonds.
i
m
m
lIA.A4.CNI)
RADIO BATTERIES-TORCH REFILLS
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
RYEGRASS IN THE SPECK.
• ‘Bogeye” : The stimulus provided by hard
times and a vigorous- Agricultural Depart-
ment is resulting in Tasmanian farmers
going in extensively for pasture improve-
ment. During the last five years there has
been a twentyfold increase in the use of
super, for top-dressing, and this year’s
figures ai'e up 20 per cent, on those of last
year. Equal activity is being displayed in
connection with sowings of clovers; last
season sub. alone accounted for 40,000 acres.
The latest move is to wage Avar on poor
strains of ryegrass. It is recognised that
most lines of perennial (English) ryegrass
are not truly pex'eunial in nature, but consist
of short-lived strains produced by the hybri-
dising of English and Italian or other
annual species. Such hybrid seed gives
plants which last for only one or two years,
after which, the pasture is not usually worth
leaving down. Seed harvested from old pas-
tures nearly always consists of true peren-
nial strain’s, and compared Avith ordinary
commercial lines such seed is almost piice-
less. Maoriland has recognised this fact
and genuine old-pasture seed is ixoav put up
in sealed bags carrying a departmental cer-
t ificate.
The Speck’s Agricultural Department is
following suit and is prepared to certify the
•seed garnered from old grassland areas.
Some of the pastures were soavu nearly a
hundred years ago. Seed from areas sown
with M.L. mother seed is also being certified.
A subsidy of 2s. per bushel is being paid
on all the seed certified, and the next tAvo
years should show a marked increase in the
production of superior seed.
Three years ago two of the best farmers
in the Scottsdale district each sowed down
pasture on similar country and under the
same conditions. Both were successful in
securing a good strike. One sowed genuine
old-pastui’e seed, the other an ordinary
good commercial line. Last season the
former’s paddock carried almost a cow to
the aci*e. On the other farm only an odd
plant of ryegrass could be found. Botli men
are sowing nothing but old-pasture seed from
now on.
FILLING PIT"*SILOS.
Senior Dairy Instructor BroAvn, writing
in the August “Agricultural Gazette.” re-
ports that Mr. R. Shepherd, of Bomadcrvy,
Nowra (N.S.W.), cut, gathered and filled a
pit silo with growth from an 311-ton-per-acre
crop of paspalum for 2s. 9d. per ton, by
using a “tumble” sweep. This is a home-
made implement with eight tines, and par-
ticulars of the construction were given by
the inventor for publication.
The main beam is of (tin. x 3in. timber,
9ft. Sin. long, and tapers for a distance of
Sin. from each end. The tapered portion
is shod with iron. Into the ends are bolted
the bars, which may be rotated, and which
carry the chains to, the handles and the trace-
hooks. The eight tines, each 3ft. 9in. long
by 2|in. Avide by 2in. deep, are fitted about
9in. apart, the end ones being about 14in.
from the end of the main beam. The tines
taper for Gin. towards the point and are
shod Avith iron. Skids 9in. long by Sin.
deep by 2Jin. wide are fitted under the
third tine from each end, flush Avith the back
of the main beam and tapered for about 4in.
on the front ends. These also are shod with
iron on the front and underneath. The
handles are bolted to the front of the main
beam, being centred about 2ft, apart; they
are about 40in. long. To these a cross bar
and two brace stays are fitted, and also the
“snigs”—-short bars of iron which carry on
their loAver ends the chains attached to the
bars at the ends of the main beam. These
“snigs” have sufficient play so that, when the
chains tighten ns tlie sweep is moved for-
ward after tipping the load, the top arm is
forced forward by the pull on the chains
and is engaged in the ground, enabling the
sweep to be turned a second time —back to
its normal position.
NEW WHEAT VARIETIES.
. “Relyc”: “Finn Lee” (B. 20/7/’32) does
not admit that wc can successfully grow
hard or red wheats; and, regarding Minister,
he remarks that “the variety did not sur-
vive.” In Westralia it has survived, and
for a good clean sample often obtains for its
growers a premium of 6d. a bushel. Also
grown in Westralia to some extent are
Comeback, Pusa, S.ILJ., Florence and a
fairly lengthy list of other varieties officially
classed as hard. Premiums of 9d. a bushel
are at times paid for exceptionally good
samples, Comeback being amongst the
world’s strongest wheats after No. 1 North-
ern Manitoba. Incidentally, the ordinary
f.a.q. sample of Westralian wheat commands
as a rule a slightly higher price overseas
than the Australian average.
The tendency nowadays is for practically
all buyers of our wheats and flours (Egyp-
tian buyers excepted) to demand strength,
and sellers have difficulty in reaching a satis-
factory standard on f.a.q. soft wheats. Some
of these are almost ideal for biscuit flour,
but are too Aveak for bakers’ quality, which
is the criterion. Bakers blend to get the
best results from available supplies; but I
have yet to see them trying to reduce the
strength. And one of our leading millers
said : “If I could only get enough hard wheat
1 would make the finest flour in the world.”
“Finn Lee” thinks little improvement in
the. quality of Australian grain can be hoped
for. I consider that a great improvement
can not. only be hoped for but must come,
if we are to retain our favorable position in
the world’s markets. There are certainly
difficulties in the way of growing hard
wheats, the biggest being tlie fact that they
are not of the highest yielding capacity. But
as research work, directed to the production
of strong, prolific wheats, makes further pro-
gress, avc shall find our f.a.q. steadily im-
proving. As regards red wheat, it grows
Avell in Westralia. but its production is dis-
couraged, the aim being to keep the “Aus-
tralian white wheat” distinctive in char-
acter. Red wheat is not shipped abroad.
A SEED-WHEAT FARM.
Turretfield, a South Aus. property bought
for a Government dairy farm and expensively
equipped, has been given over to the pro-
duction of seed wheat for farmers. If this
were proposed in Westralia the projector’s
sanity would bo questioned, for dairying is
carried on there in 30- to 40-inch country,
whereas most of the wheat is grown on land
with 10 to 12 inches of rainfall; but condi-
tions are different in South Aus., and there
arc high hopes that the experiment will be
successful.
According to a writer in the “Advertiser,”
500 acres of Turretfield have been planted
with varieties the seed from which Avill be
sold —or bartered —next year. If, as is
reckoned, the harvest is a bit better than the
average, nearly 10,000 bushels will be avail-
able for distribution among farmers. Federa-
tion is losing favor in other States, but it is
still highly regarded in South Aus.; so 60
acres have been sown Avith the variety with
which Farrer’s name will always be asso-
ciated. There are also 60 acres of Free
Gallipoli—now supreme in Victoria—6o of
Nabawa, 78 of Ford, 72 of Late Gluyas, 70
of Sultan and 80 of Sword. In addition,
there are breeding plots of Currawa. Ranee
and Ford, and selection plots of Caliph,
besides other varieties mentioned. It seems
probable that, instead of selling the seed for
cash, the Advisory Board of Agriculture
will recommend the adoption of the West-
ralian system, under which a farmer may get
a bushel of graded seed for a bushel and a
half of f.a.q. wheat delivered at his siding—
with a fixed limit, of course.
SUDAN-GRASS POISONING.
“Azae”: The unprecedented number of
fatal cases of Sudan-grass poisoning in N. S.
Wales during the past season has experts
puzzled. This grass has been reckoned one
of the best green-fodder hay, silage' and graz-
ing crops for the drier parts, but the varying
conditions under which it has pi'oved fatal
to cattle this past year haA*c made it im-
possible to say precisely in what circum-
stances it may be fed with safety. As a
matter of fact the Department of Agricul-
ture has been obliged to adA’ocatc the growing
of Japanese millet in preference to Sudan
grass where cattle arc concerned.
Up till this season it had been considered
that only impure Sudan-grass seed (sorg-
hum —Sudan-grass hybrids) gaA T e rise to
plants likely to contain sufficient prussic
acid to cause mortality. But it has been
proved that pure strains of. Sudan grass
in different stages of growth have caused
deaths in cattle. It hardly seems feasible
that seasonal conditions are to blame,
although it may be that severe and continued
frosts stunted the plants to such an extent
as to cause concentration of the poisonous
properties in a greatly reduced hulk of feed.
Perhaps the likeliest explanation is connected
Avith the expansion of the dairying industry
into the drier inland districts, where most of
the Sudan-grass crops are grown. Cattle
consume comparatively large quantities of
the grass, and in these inland districts have
ingested enough prussic acid —evidently more
or less always present —to kill them. Sheep,
on the other hand, being comparatively slow
grazers, apparently do not consume sufficient
bulk of tlie grass at the one time for tlie
poison to prove dangerous.
EDUCATING THE SHEEP-PUP.
”Liss”: Whatever the breed or cross, if
his parents were workers bred from working
families, be has inherited an instinct for
handling .sheep, and this instinct must bo
fostered. He must bo allowed to develop
along natural lines, being taught only
obedience and elementary things, suc'n
as to sit, to come behind and not to
cross in front of his master. He should not
be punished during these lessons: if patience
is exercised there is no necessity for it. Con-
stant repetition of the exercises followed by
a pat and a word of encouragement when
lie has done well, and lessons of short dura-
tion so that his attention does not wander,
will achieve the object.
During the first three months of liis life
the pup should bo taught to know his name,
to come when called or whistled, and to
learn the meaning of the command “Sit.”
Care must be taken not to make him shy or
timid. He will next be taught to lead, being
made to keep at heel, and should be tied
up for gradually lengthening periods each day,
until a little later he is tied up each even-
ing' for the night. At six months liis educa-
tion may be extended. With the aid of a
long, strong fishing line he should be taught
to sit at any distance from his boss at the
command of a word, a whistle or a sign, and
1o remain seated until ordered up. The
fishing line is a great aid in teaching a shy
pup to come to hand when called. It is
better than a heavier rope, as it does not
hamper his movements or cow- him at all.
Let him run, attached to the line, and then
cheek him, making him sit at no great dis-
tance from you, the first few- times, by giving
the command “Sit” and holding up your
hand. Having learnt the meaning of the
word, he will quickly pick this up. Make
him sit until you whistle him up, and at
the same time pull him in gently to your
feet; then reward him. Repeat this agaiti
and again at varying distances until he
learns to sit while you turn your back and
walk away: to sit till called, and until he
instantly obeys word, sign or whistle.
He may now follow you when out for
short rides, but he should not be permitted
to Avork sheep until he is able to lead them.
Never allow him to work in or near the
yards, but carry a chain and tie him up.
When he just starts to run, let him go his
oAvn way and make his mistakes unchecked.
You and your mates will need all your
patience, but if you check him too much in
the beginning lie may think he is at fault
in following his instinct and making the run.
Never permit him to cross between you and
the mob. When ordering him from one
side to the other call him behind first. And
spare the rod !
THE ALL-SUFFICING FARM.
“Reedac”: No need for “Reefton” (B.
27/7/’32) to emphasise the fact that Dad,
Mum and the young ones can live ivell on
the produce of their farm. This is brought
home to city chaps in the one-farm dis-
plays which are a popular feature of every
big Show-. W. D. Ponton, of Tuggerah
(N.S.W.), has been impressing it on the
public mind for years. Sir. Ponton took an
exhibit up to Brisbane for Queensland’s
Royal National Show. In it, as an aston-
ished local chronicler records were “cured
beef and mutton, bacon and ham; 60 kinds
of preserves, 60 kinds of jams and 22
kinds of pickles; a big collection of dried,
preserved and crystallised fruits; a varied
assortment of seeds for the flower garden
and the vegetable garden; five different
varieties of tobacco; cotton, coffee and
‘corn coffee’ —really roasted maize, which
makes a palatable drink.” There tvas also
a large range of fodders and grasses, to-
gether Avith fine samples of wool and mohair.
A Queensland farmer —Mr. "Whiteway, of
Buderim —Aveighed in with a collection of
butter, cream, cheese, pineapples, citrus,
seA’eral other varieties of fruit, jellies, pre-
serves, sugarcane, nuts, coffee and ginger.
Another — Mr. Christensen, of Ci-oav’s Nest
—displayed maize, Avheat (20 varieties of
each), barley, oats (three of each), chaff,
hay (17 of each), tobacco, meals from
various cereals and roots, grasses (50
sorts), potatoes (22 classes) pineapples,
bananas, preserved fruit, jams, jellies,
tanned skins, home-made dresses, millinery
and faneywork.
Of course, to live on the produce of his
farm a man needs a good bit of ground in
a district Avith a good rainfall, and —more
important still —a resourceful and contented
Avife. And it is not at all desirable that
the practice should become general. Still,
these examples are valuable as showing
what can he done in an emergency—-and
what could be done towards helping thou-
sands of unemployed to fend for themselves
till brighter days dawn, if our Govern-
ments had some energy and imagination.
QUALITY OF N.S.W. FRUIT.
“Penfield”: The quality of the fruit grown
in N. S. Wales is worrying men who are
looking forward hopefully to a much larger
export trade. Most of our citrus fruit is
very inferior to the Californian product;
our navels are excellent, but probably be-
cause they are not heavy bearers they are
not universally grown. Much' greater atten-
tion to the pedigree of stock is needed to
put us on a competitive footing with Ameri-
can growers in the Canadian market. Gener-
ally the Mumunbidgee oranges have a
better appearance than those of the coast,
large quantities of which are quite below
export standard because of skin blemishes.
The lemons from both districts are mostly
of very poor quality; according to one high
authority, three-quarters of all the lemon-
trees in N. S. Wales should be rooted up.
But though many of the irrigation-area
oranges are of good appearance the peaches
are distinctly poor in this respect, and seem
to be deteriorating. Their canning quality
as well as their appearance is much, below
that of the bulk of the Victorian pack,
drawn from northern irrigation areas. As,
however, some of the deterioration shown by
last season’s crop was due t<> thrip, improve-
ment is hoped for.
STORING IMMATURE ORANGES.
“Shadlow”: “Mat Ure’s” experience (B.
13/7/’32) with immature oranges testing at
28 c.cs. “that dropped to .13 c.es. a few weeks
later, and later still to 8 or 9,” suggests that
the acid used in the later tests was much
stronger tlian decitiormal. I do not know
of any appreciable decrease* in the acid con-
tent of stored immature navel oranges—
possibly because of their short storage life
—hut tests made with Valencia oranges
indicate that by the time the immature
fruit lias decreased sufficiently in acid con-
tent to be palatable it is no longer edible.
In tlie “N.S.W. Agricultural Gazette” for
July Special Fruit Instructor R. J. Benton
and Fruit Instructor F. T. Bowman report
on some 600 tests made over the last three
seasons. Progress tests made of Valencia's
held in ordinary storage for 61 weeks (Aug-
ust 28 to November 5) showed that in one
instance oranges that were tested at 33c.cs.
at the beginning of the storage period went
27.5 at the end, and others dropped from
31.5 to 25, compared with' a drop from 29.9
on August 19 to 15.0 on November 13 in
Valencias held on the tree. The two stored
lots tested were, according to the authors,
“in poor condition and shrunken before the
accepted standard of sweetness (23 c.cs.)
was reached.”
THRIPS.
The Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research has reported, in effect, that it
knows less than it doesn’t know about
thrips; but it says that the creature was
blamed last fruit-season for more than it
was really guilty of. Thrips imaginis Bag
nail, to give the small devil his full name,
undoubtedly did great damage; but the
Council believes excessive saturation of the
soil in some districts caused failure of
the fruit to set for which the thrips were
blamed. Spring frosts in other places were
also very harmful. Repellents may be prolii-
al>ly used; most success has been got in that
direction. So little, however, is really
known about tlie pest that a Thrips Investi-
gation League has been formed in Victoria,
though the bulk of the work will probably
ho done at the Waite Institute in S. Aus-
tralia. The £l2OO required for the purpose
is either in hand or has been guaranteed,
£4OO of it coming from the Commonwealth
Bank.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Ingredients and method of making a block
cattle lick, containing iodine and iron , suit-
able for dairy cows in Auckland district.
M.L. f—1066.
The chief deficiency in the soils of your
district is a phosphlatic one. A good lick
would be 401 b. of salt. 401 b. bone-meal and
101 b. limonito. lodine is not required, bn l
if thought essential 4oz. iodide of potassium
may be added by dissolving in water anti
spraying over mixture. Special machinery
is required to make blocks. Stock will take
the mixture in the loose form if put in
boxes on the pastures.
(1) How to prepare a pig for the show-ring 1
(2) How to register a pig in the stud-book!
(3) Any books on Berkshire pigs? (4)
At what: age should a Berkshire sow In-
mated? (5) What length and height should
Berkshire sows be at seven months? (0)
Is rice as good as wheat for pig iced?
1072.
(1) The pig should be in good condition,
blit not over-fat; a, week or so before the
(Continued on next page.)


V
f 3*
m
2
\
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
No tightness!
Yet it fits smartly and closely.
The upper of this Abbey Shoe
curves over the instep.... lies
snugly because of its trUe-to-
natUre design. And the sole, of
toughest Australian leather, is
comfortably pliant as well. There
are four fittings for each full and
half size, ensuring that your foot
is suited exactly for both width
and length.
ORDER BY POST.
State whether you need narrow,
medium, wide or extra wide fitting,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or
a handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 294
DO YOU WANT YOUR
WOOL HANDLED BY
An Experienced Classer
OR BY A LEARNER?
experienced men o{ certified ability
are eligible for full "membership of the
WOOL CLASSERS’ ASSOCIATION OF N.S.W.
The Association will supply classers at Current
Rates, and welcomes any inquiries. Apply:
THE WOOL CLASSERS’ ASSN.,
10 O’CONNELL, STREET, SYDNEY.
SAF
Duplicate Parts, Combs and
Cutters.
Accurately made, correctly
hardened.
Perfectly finished.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
INVINCIBLE
Marine Motors
BENZINE - KEROSENE - CRUDE OIL
20 MODELS : 3TO 160 HR.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS LIMITED
53 NORTH GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W
AN® AT CrtIGAGO, ILLINOIS.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire Insurances*# o *^* l 011 “k classes of
1 Buildings, Stocks, Furni
ttiife, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks Merchandise,
’ Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
Of various'classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. 0. Dawsoh, See. H. E. BobinsOt), Gen. Manager.
METROPOLE,
. , . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
front Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartment!
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and Upwards. Cards of TarUf
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
w
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
4
COMPOUND ESSENCE
OF U^SEED
COUGH*
The National Sporting
Weekly,
Che n.Z. Referee
is the official organ of most of
the principal sports bodies and
associations throughout New
Zealand, covering Racing, Trot-
ting, Cycling, Tennis, Cricket,
Wrestling, Boxing, Radio, Foot-
ball, Hunting, Whippets, Dogs,
Breeding, Golf, Athletics, etc.
Excellent advertising coverage is
offered in any section of the paper,
which is on sale all over New Zealand.
The most popular and authentic
Sporting paper in New Zealand.
Inquire for Rates from all leading
Advertising Agencies, or to —
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
IF YOU MUST BE PAID
TO READ THE NEWS...
....what of the advertisements?
“The Brisbane Courier" depends for circulation solely on its
wholesome, cleanly-presented news and its vigorous policy in
public questions. Subscribers buy it to read it. As a result its
circulation is the greatest and most effective in all Queensland.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland’s leading paper for 84 years.
Representative: ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 85007.
show, oil well with used sump oil from
motor-ear, and a couple of days before the
show wash the pig well with warm water
and soap. On the morning the animal is
to be judged, groom with an oily brush.
(2 > Apply to D. Muggridge, care. Golds-
br ought Mort and Co., Macquarie-plaee,
Sydney. (3) Mr. Muggridge may be able
to advise. (4) From 8 to 12 months. (5)
Approximately 4ft. long and 14in. to 18in.
high. (6) No.
When grinding strychnine crystals for
dingo baits is there any advantage in adding
baking powder or baking soda, and if so how
much should be added f —-1295.
Addition of baking powder or baking soda
makes the mixture more soluble and quicker
in faction. Either is used in equal propor-
tions with the strychnine.
(1) Cost of a trapper's outfit? (2) What
would it include? (3) Where to apply to
for a job as station hunter or trapper ?—
1332.
(1) About £3O. (2 ) 50 or 60 steel traps,
a sturdy horse, atid a light vehicle. An old
waggonette is suitable. For distances beyond
30 miles from a factory, or buyers’ depots,
a heavier vehicle and two Or three horses
would be needed, and perhaps crates. (3) In
the backbloeks—-away from the areas where
rabbits are trapped for market. Secretary,
Pastoralists Assoc, may be able to advise.
IT me to make greenhide from a fresh
calfskin ? —1424.
Make up a mixture off 2 parts salt, 1 part
saltpetre, and 1 part alum, finely powdered
and well stirred together, sufficient to cover
a skin. Take the fresh skin while still
warm, spread it out evenly hair side dOw T n
and rub in the mixture thoroughly, and
sprinkle generously over the hide. Roll
it up and set aside for a few days until
the pickle is dissolved. Then peg the hide
out to dry and scrape clean of flesh, etc.
When dry, the hair can he scraped off
with' a sharp knife; then rub the skin side
thoroughly with neatsfoot oil and peg out
again. Work in as much oil as possible
with a piece of blunt wood, and work the
skin till dry and soft. Finish with a piece
of pumice. The hair need not be scraped
off until the skin is being cut up for use;
or it may be removed before curing by
immersing the skin in a hath made of 5
gallons water. 1 quart lime and 1 shovelful
of clean wood ashes. Leave for 2 days.
1 have 20 laying-strain Black Minorca
liens, and would like to mate them with a
male bird of another breed so that they
would produce male chickens of a different
color from females, so that the males could
be disposed of as soon as hatched and only
the females reared. What breeds of males
could be used in order of preference, and
what color would the chicks be? —1298.
It is necessary with black birds to make
a cross with a barred bird, such as the
Barred Rock or Cuckoo Leghorn. In this
ease the barred hen is mated with a black
cock. The chickens of the male variety at
birth will have the light patch on the top
of their heads that is associated with barred
birds, while the pullets will be black. Pre-
ference cannot be expressed, as the'matter
is one for experiment.
(1) Does the temperature of artesian
bore-water differ in various localities? (2)
Does it increase with depth of bore? If so in
what ratio? (3) Does temperature increase
or decrease after the bore has been in use
for some time? —1417.
(1) Yes, to a considerable extent. (2)
Yes. The water from Elderslie No. 2 bore
in Queensland (4523 ft.) reaches the sur-
face with a temperature of 210 deg. F.
Goyder’s Lagoon bore in South Australia
(4550 ft.) has a temperature of 208 deg.
Over large areas the temperature-gradient
ranges from an increase of 1 deg. in 30ft.
to ldeg. in 22ft., and in some eases even
steeper gradients have been found. On the
other hand, a well near Walgett (N.S.W.)
has a gradient of ldeg. in 70ft.; but such
low gradients are uncommon. The increase
of temperature with depth is not always
regular. In the Mirra Mitta bore in South
Australia the temperature of the water in-
creased from 122 deg. at 3485 ft. to 176 deg.
at 3506 ft., while at 3534 ft. it rises to
190 deg. (3) In bores that have been re-
examined after flowing for some time the
temperature has sometimes decreased, some-
times increased—in one case by as much as
30deg. in two years.
Best way to teach a sheep-pup to work
sheep—by word of mouth or bu whistle? —
1087.
See article previous page. If you cannot
whistle sufficiently loud, whistles can be
purchased.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Valerin”: If your country is heavily
grassed and the rainfall is sparse, hire tlie
shire road-grader and run a few tracks
to the tanks: a smart shower will fill them.
Failing the grader, a solid forked limb with
a sharp steel plate bolted to each side makes
a good substitute. A four-foot track is wide
enough.
“Dimon”; A good “cement” floor for a
shed can be made with a blending of ashes
and tallow. Not much tallow is required,
the mixture being made into the consistency
of mortar -with hot water. Another hard
floor can be made with white-ant hills,
broken up finely and watered down, or put
down in a semi-liquid form.
“Dimon” : Some N.S.W. squatters get good
results by using the car for killing rabbits.
The method is to remove the silencer, fit a bit
of If in. pipe with a reducing socket and a
water-pipe union, and from that place a
length of lin. hose in a 1 burrow on the wind-
yard side, filling all outlets with dirt to
keep the smoke in. In an average warren
the car is run for only a few minutes, by
which time every passage should be filled
with the exahust fumes and all the rabbits
killed.
“Yarri”: Part of an old motor tyre makes
a first-rate water trough for a grindstone,
tacked or just hooked on under the frame.
It is equally handy to put over the top
part of the stone to protect it from the
weather.
“Mulgo”: The old chock-and-log style of
fencing makes a good pig-stye and sheep-
yard. The main thing is to start it properly.
Dig a. trench a few inches deep round the
alignment, drop in a heavy log on each side
and a heavier one in each end trench, so that
when the ends of the logs are scarfed to fit
together, the bigger one will stand a suffi-
cient height above the other to form a chock
at each corner for the next side log. There-
after put logs of equal diameter right rotind.
gradually decreasing the s : ze. Use logs that
reach full length attd width' of stye, and
place a chock midway between each. This
is a short piece, a foot or less in. lefigth and
the same thickness as the log, hollowed on
each side to fit closely at top and bottom.
Finally, bore a hole down through the two
top poles at each corner and peg them.
“Coekyson” : Corn husks are too precious
to be burnt When there are stock to feed
them to. In the farming districts of S.Q.
not a husk was wasted in winter when the
writer was a boy, every husk being gathered
up when husking ceased and carried in sacks
to where the milkers stood waiting im-
patiently for them. Once stock acquire a
taste for the husks they Will eat them at
any time, even when green feed is abuhdaht.
“ J.A.S.”: To poultry kept on the inten-
sive system, the grain portion of the ration
is generally fed mixed in With the litter,
the idea being to induce the birds to scratch
for it. From a hygienic viewpoint the prac-
tice has little to commend it. The litter, of
course, eanhOt be dispensed with, belt it
should be Changed as frequently as practic-.
able ; as its value as fertiliser is so high, the
work involved in changing will be repaid.
It will also be found that the really good
hen will still scratch round and get neces-
sary exercise, even though no grain rewards
her search through the litter.
“Rab”: Having decided to erect five miles
of rabbit-proof fencing, I called tenders for
ironbark posts, split, erected and bored, also
strainers and stays. The lowest tender re-
ceived was Is. 3d. each for posts, 2s. for
strainers and Is. fid. for stays—myself to
cart from stump to line. As the line w r as
rough and much manhandling was necessary,
I went in for steel pokts instead, one man
being able to carry a bundle of 20 along the
line. Actual cost of the completed fence per
mile worked out at £329 10s.: wire-netting,
£52; steel posts, £2O; three plain wires, high
tensile, £3 155.; one barb-wire, £2 10s.; tie
wire, 10s.; freight and cartage, £lO 10s.;
clearing the line of green and dead timber,
two chains wide, £18; digging cut burrows
thereon, £4; erecting fence, £lB. The work
was done by day labor at 10s. per day and
find yourself.
“Gulliver”: A common casualty on the
farm is the loosening and coming off of a
cart-wheel hub band. If you don’t feel equal
to cutting and rewelding it, lay the wheel
flat on the ground with a strong support
in the centre and cover the hub with one
thickness of a sound wheat bag. Lay a
thick coat of paint on the bag round the
edge of the hub and drive the hand on over
it. Finally trim off the bag round the band.
No further trouble will be experienced.
“Gumblegubbin”: When the wheels of a
cart or dray make much noise—the chock-
clock noise—it means that there is too much
play on the axle and a washer is needed. A
wheel should revolve without moving more
than a shade to left or right. Where there
is room to slide and rock it is bad for
vehicle and horse.
“A.C.8.”: It is a mistake to sow peas in
single rows in drills. Sow in a 4in.-wide
drill and run the seed in and out thickly.
Sow this way and you save land, get -a
better crop, don’t need so much staking and
gather more easily. Peas take very little
from the soil, and can be grown in the
same bed for years.
“Sylvester” : It is often difficult to remove
the draining plug from a pig-trough.- If a
hole is bored through the peg and a ring of
wire inserted it will assist.
“Thermos” : One of the nightmares which
beset the banana-grower is frost. Two
partners engaged in the game on the Tweed
(N.S.W.) have invented an ingenious
device which automatically sounds am alarm
at any given temperature. This allows the
growers to get in early and, if necessary,
light heaters to counteract the effect of
the frost. The device consists of a 41b.
column of mercury, two feet long, with two
platinum points, electric wiring, two 3-volt
dry-cell batteries, two switches, a relay bell,
a lightning conductor, connecting lines and
a ringer. The principle is the reverse of
that obtaining in refrigerator-rooms, the
bell ringing when the mercury falls, instead
of when it rises. It is quite possible to
extend the principle to permit the falling
temperature itself to light the heaters,
though the scale of such an equipment
would make the job expensive.
“Sativa”; Last October a neighbor bought
1000 five-month first-cross Border Leicester
lambs, unshorn, mixed sexes, at ss. 6d. per
head. Her marketed them in the - wool at
Homebush, Sydney, on July 18. Their
dressed weight averaged about 361 b.; they
brought Bs. 5d. —net return, approximately
6s. It would have paid breeder or dealer
to keep the ewe portion till they were two-
tooths. Young first-cross ewes are eagerly
sought after, as mothers, by fat-lamb farm-
ers at solid prices; besides, their clip would
have been a consideration.
“FY7.”: An announcement from Russia
should hearten pastoralists who are com-
plaining about the- heavy cost of shearing.
Thanks to an invention by one Professor
Ilyn it is now alleged to be possible to dose
sheep with a special preparation which so
acts on their sympathetic nerve system that
in a few days the fleeces are loosened and
can be peeled off in one piece. No fleece is
left at all on the sheep, but in a few days
a new one begins to grow% and the rate of
growth is more rapid than after ordinary
shearing. In addition, the fleece may be
fixed to moult in two stages, first shedding
tlie finer quality and later the coarse, with
the result that sorting becomes practically
automatic. The basic idea at any rate is
not new. For centuries the Shetland
Islanders have plucked their sheep for the
wool from which their famous knitted ar-
ticles are made. Anyone who has come
across sheep that have not seen the shears for
a couple of seasons will realise how easy
peeling is. In Australia the process is mostly
confined to plucking dead sheep when
these are plentiful enough to make it worth
while; and a nasty job it is,


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
t The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Girl (18), Sydney, well educated, wants position
as dental nurse, city or suburbs. Own typewriter.
—1447.
• Gardener, married (N.S.W.), handy with tools,
wants employment. Refs. —1418.
Youth (18), exp. with sheep, wants job.—l4BB.
Draughtsman, young, N.S.W., graduate Sydney Uni.
mech. and elec, eng., seeks position. Refs. —1490.
Tutor (32), single, all subjects, music, commerce,
•sports, seeks post anywhere in Australia. —1503.
Partner with £230 to work 50-ccvv dairy farm,
Central North Coast, N.S.W. —1494.
To buy copy of “The Man Shakespeare” or any
other books by Frank Harris.—l47B.
To buy song “Melisande in the Wood.” —1339.
To buy “The Oppressed English,” by lan Hay.
—1386.
Will exchange “Instantaneous Personal Magnetism”
for books to value of 25s. —138.
Journal giving biographical details concerning
David Grayson, author of “The Friendly Road.”
—1412.
Words of verse beginning, “Now this is just a
simple tale, to tell the reader how they civilised
the Maori tribes at Ruritikihou.” —1505.
To buy secondhand colored scenic lantern slides,
3jin. square.—lso6.
To buy Bulletins for Feb. 7, 1880, Feb. 28,
1880, March 13, 1880 and March 27, 1880, or, fail-
ing single copies, bound volume containing those
numbers.—l3s3.
Information Sought.
(1) Could a young man (21) get a job on
a, tea plantation in Ceylon? (2) Would
£lOO or more help him in getting a job? (3)
How do the men employed there secure posi-
tions? (4) Is there any future for a good
worker (secondary-school education) in
tea-planting ? —1240.
(1) Not at present. All tlic tea estates
are reducing staffs. (2) No. (3) They are
from English public schools and are friends
of the directors or estate managers. (4)
Not without influence. The industry is not
expanding.
(1) What educational qualifications are
necessary to commence studies for the degree
of B. Econ. at Sydney Uni? (2) Length of
Uni. course? (3) Could a student remain
in employment? —l2oo.
(1) A pass in the matriculation examina-
tion in higher English, another higher lan-
guage, mathematics and history, one of the
last two to be at the higher standard. (2)
Four years. (3) Yes, as all lectures are
delivered in the evenings.
Best method of storing musquash coat to
protect against moths and silver fish? Any
special action to be taken before coat is
again worn? —1264.
Cold storage by one of the large drapery
houses is the safest. Failing that, shake
and brush the coat, apd clean and
mend it where necessary. Fold it iip in pro-
fessional style, and put plenty of mp.thbails
or powdered naphthalipe into all the folds,
pockets and pleats, as much as it will hold.
Then wrap well in newspaper of several
thicknesses, and seal it up by gumming the
outer wrapping securely, leaving no openings
anywhere. The wrappings should be in-
spected opce a month, or opened up for exam-
ination and re-sealed. Store in a cool place.
A few days before the coat is wanted, it
should be- hung in the open to remove the
odor.
Method of tinting Italian marble lamp-
shades S’—l2s2.
Ordinary water-colors may be used. First
remove all grease by washing and finishing
off with a rubbing with a benzine-soaked
sponge. Add a little ox-gall or aguoline
to the colors. It might bo possible to fix
the tints by spraying with a fixative such
as artists use; this is procurable from art
material shops. You could experiment also
with the spirit stains, which are used in
art-craft work.
What is the essential difference between
industrial unionism, and cruft, unionism?—
1310.
Craft unions are the lineal successors
of the trade guilds; membership of both was
confined to fully-skilled workmen. Industrial
unionism, a growth of the last 40 years,
and largely developed through compulsory
arbitration, provides for organisation of men
b , r industries, all workers being eligible,
regardless of skill. It has weakened the
power of the craft unions.
(1) What steps must be taken to have a
street or an area proclaimed a residential
district in N.S.W.? (2) llow are shops,
factories and other commercial enterprises
affected by such a proclamation? —l323.
(1) Under the Local Government Act a
residential district can oply be proclaimed
by the Governor on the application of the
council in whose area the proposed district
is situated. The procedure is to petition
the council. (2) Rights are safeguarded
by a provision that permits continuance of
the use of any building for any purpose for
which it was used immediately before the
date of the proclamation and the alteration,
enlargement, rebuilding or extension of any
building used for any such purpose.
When a writer inserts the word “sic” in
brackets after a word or phrase what does
he mean to convey? When should the word
be used?— l272.
Sic is Latin for so, and is inserted after a
quoted word or phrase to confirm its
accuracy as a quotation, or occasionally after
the writer’s own word to emphasise it as
giving his deliberate meaning; it amounts to
“Yes, he did say that,” or “Yes, I do mean
that,” in spite of your natural doubts. It
should be used only when doubt is natural;
but reviewers and controversialists are
tempted to pretend that it is, because (sic)
provides, them with an easy form of sneer.
(1) Where was Stradivari, the violin-
maker, born? (2) How many violins made
by him, are there? (3) What is the value
of one of these violins, dated 1647 ? (4)
Any book concerning Stradivari and his
work? —900.
(1) Cremona, Italy. (2) It is estimated
that he made 1036 violins, violas and kin-
dred instruments and 80 ’cellos, of which
540 violins, 12 violas and 50 ’cellos have
been accounted for. (3) Ilis best instru-
ments are worth upwards, of £lO,OOO each.
There are no genuine Strads dated 1047, 'as
at that time the maker was only three, years
old. (4) Hart’s “The Violin” deals very
fully with the subject. A. E. Smith aud
Co., of Sydney, can supply other books.
(1) Would it be possible to refine a local
clay so as to use it for pottery? (2) How
can it be done? —-1321.
(1) Yes. (2) Thoroughly dry the clay
and reduce to a powder. Pass through sieve
about jin. mesh to remove stones aud rub-
bish. Half-fill a koroseue-tiu with clean
water and throw in powdered clay, a hand-
ful at a time, till a small mound rises out of
the middle. Leave it all to soak for an
hour or two. Stir and mix thoroughly with
the hands and then pour into another tin
through a fine sieve of about 14 meshes to
the inch. This mixture is known as slip.
If the slip appears sandy, allow it to stand
in the bucket for a few minutes without stir-
ring and then pour off carefully into another
bucket: a quantity of sand will be left
behind in the bottom of the tiu. Allow the
slip to stand over night and in the morn-
ing syphon off any surplus liquid. It will
now be of about the right consistency for
casting, but for modelling it will need to
be placed in a shallow vessel to allow
evaporation to bring it to the right con-
sistency.
(1) Is the Herkamer white etching ground
more resistant than an ordinary ground?
(2) How can 1 lay one? (3) What other
advantages has it?- —1324.
(1) Yes. (2) Lay a wax and bitumen
ground in the ordinary way but without
smoking it. It. should be a light golden-
brown color, and dry as soon qs the plate is
cold. Take actors’ white greasepaint. Dab
the fingers lightly into this and dab the
plate all over as evenly as possible, but
not thickly. Rub gently into this soft white
upper ground finest powdered zinc-white,
applying it with a large soft camel-hair
brush. This creates a dead white surface
not unlike paper. Bee that the plate is not
cold when the greasepaint is dabbed on,
and the chill should be just off it when the
zinc-white is brushed in. (3) The needling
off of the plate shows out black or dark
brown upon white instead of bright copper
or zinc lines upon black, and it is therefore
easier to gauge the quality of the lines.
How to make a simple and inexpensive
fish-trap for use in N.S.W. waters?—BBB.
Frame of sawn hardwood battens 24in.
or 3iu. Length 6ft., width sft., depth 3ft.
Top, sides and ends to be covered with wire-
netting, 2jin. mesh; bottom, not less than
lin. mesh. Make a 9in. opening in the
centre of one end for a funnel of wire-netting
12in. in length, 9in. wide at inlet and Oiu.
wide at end inside the trap. Secure this
funnel at the opening with wire binding.
Also provide a door of convenient size in a
suitable portion of the trap. The above
dimensions are the maximum permitted, but
there is no objection to the use of a smaller
frame. The size of mesh is important, as
traps of illegal mesh may be seized. In the
waters between (but not inclusive of) St.
George’s Basin and Clyde River 2in. mesh
may be used for the top and sides.
(1) How many Leclanche battery cells are
required to produce an E.M.F. of from four to
six volts? (2) Size of jar? (3) How to
mix the solution? (4) How to connect up
the cells? —1285.
(1) Si*. (2) Quart size. (3) Dissolve
4oz. sal ammoniac to each pint of water.
(4) Connect the zinc rod of No. 1 cell to
the terminal on the top of t}>e porous pot of
No. 2 cell; connect the zinc rod of this cell
to the porous pot of No. 3 cell. The six cells
are connected up in this manner. Two
leads from the porous pot of No. 1 cell and
the zinc rod of No. 6 cell are connected to
the apparatus.
(1) How to clean, rebloek and trim
women’s felt hats? (2) Materials and tools
required? (3) Where obtainable in Bris-
bane? —1270.
(1) Cleaning is done with the aid of
magnesia blocks, hot bran, petrol and
ammonia; reblocking is done on wooden
shapes or expanding forms. Trimming is a
milliner’s job, involving a knowledge of styles
and materials. (2) Chemicals used in clean-
ing, special soaps and baths, brushes, work-
ing tables, shapes to suit current fashions
and means of heating and steaming for shap-
ing the hats. (3) Any wholesale millinery
or drapery warehouse, for shapes, trim-
mings. etc. For addresses of merchants, ask
any hatter or milliner.
(1) How can drawing-ink be made to run
freely? I have trouble with the pen clogging.
(2) Suitable surface to draw on? (3)
Should the drawing be done in pencil first
or can it, be done in writing ink, covering
afterwards with Indian ink? —llo7.
(1) Any of the waterproof inks on the
market may be diluted with distilled water
and ammonia, using six drops of linuid
ammonia to a tablespoon of distilled
water. Wipe the nib fairly frequently on
a piece of old clean linen, and scrape occa-
sionally with a sharp knife or razor-blade to
stop clogging. (2) Bristol board, Ivory
board or Whatman’s smooth water-color
paper. (3) Make the drawing on a sheet
of paper first, and when completed trace, it
on to the board with a home-made tracing
paper made by rubbing with ordinary lead
pencil. Work this tracing up a little on the
board with a soft pencil and finish with
Indian ink. Don’t use writing ink at any
stage.
(1) lion ; can J make a pokefwork chess-
hoard? (2) What paints will stain it?
(3) Could gold or silver chequers he madet
—1240.
(1) Take three- or four-ply white wood
and divide into 48 exact, squares, with suffi-
cient space for a 2in. or Sin. border all
round the board. With a carving tool or
poker machine slightly indicate border and
squares. Color the squares alternately black
and white, and form a simple border pattern
with color and gilding. (2) A quick-drying
lacquer is most suitable. (3) Yes. Various
paints of this sort are on the market.
(1) Who designed the triangular Cape of
Good Hope postage stamps? (2) When
were then first issued? (3) By whom
printed? (4) Particulars of issue? —1255.
(11 Charles Bell, the Surveyor-General.
(2) September 1, 1853. (3) First by
Perkins Bacon and Co., but early in 1805
they handed over the plates to De La Rue
and Co., who made all subsequent printings,
(4) Four values were issued: Id. red, 4d.
blue, 6d. lilac and Is. green. . .There, are
numerous shades. A local provisional issue
was printed by Saul Solomon and Co. of
Capetown in 1861, called the “woodblock”
issue, these latter stamps being rare.
What arc the ingredients of liquid paint-
and varnish-removers and how are they
made ? —1227.
There are many recipes, some of them
containing very strong acids or alkalis. For
a home-made paint-remover mix 1 part tur-
pentine and 2 parts ammonia. Shake well
together until the mixture looks like. milk.
Apply to the painted surface with a piece of
rag on a stick, and leave for a few minutes,
when the old paint can be wiped off.
Strength of the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police, and duties of members? —1391.
At July 31, 1931, force comprised 00
officers. 1085 other ranks and 135 special
constables. Duties are to enforce Dominion
Statutes (except the Criminal Code, which is
enforced by the Provincial authorities).;. to
assist other departments of the Dominion
Government, and to enforce observance of
the law in the Yukon, North-west territories,
islands of the Arctic Ocean, Indian reserves
and national parks.
(1) Is it possible by using bluestone to
kill and prevent the growth of green, slimy
weed in a reservoir without killing carp
which live there? (2) How much bluestone
per 1000 gal. should be used? —1093.
Copper sulphate dissolved in water in.such
a small amount as one part in eight million
(one-forty-eighth of an oz. to lOOOgal.) will
destroy alga;. A small bag filled with blue-
stone and dragged to and fro in the water
will soon give a solution strong enough. The
water so treated should not be harmful to
fish.
(1) When is the new stamp issue of the
Territory of New Guinea coming out? (2)
Particulars of design and values? (3) Will
the recent issue increase in value when re-
placed by new issue?— -1477.
(1) It made its appearance in July. (2)
The new plates were made from the original
Bird of Paradise die, but the dates 1921-1931
have been replaced by scroll ornamentation.
The lid., which was formerly red, is now
purple, and the 2d., formerly purple, is now
red. The other values have not altered
their colors. The values are the same as
previously. (2) Yes, especially the three
higher values.
(1) How docs “white gold” differ in com-
position from the ordinary metal? (2) How
does it compare with the latter in value?
(3) Why so popular, apart from being a
poor imitation of platinum? Has it any
special merits ? —1164.
(1) It is a manufactured product and
varies in composition. It may consist of an
alloy of either gold with palladium and
platinum, gold with nickel and silver, or gold
with nickel and zinc. (2) It is made up
to a standard of 9 carat or 18 carat gold
and sold at about the same price as gold.
(3) It is harder than ordinary gold and is
therefore better suited for certain types of
setting.
What method is adoptedl in valuing N.S. Vi'.
city properties and improved suburban lands?
—1349.
Estimate is based on market value of the
land plus value of buildings after allowing
for depreciation. Several factors enter into
fixing of value, especially residential proper-
ties, such as position, proximity to means of
transit, fares and environment. In the case
of city investment properties and business
premises generally, values are determined
largely by centrality or proximity to the
stream of potential customers, suitability of
premises and taxation.
Particulars regarding the ship Providence,
said to have been the first built in M.L.? —
1378.
In 1792 William Raven, of the Britannia,
left at Dusky Sound, in the South Island,
11 men under William Leith as the nucleus
of a whaling station. Made anxious by
Raven’s long absence, the party commenced
to build a ship, which was left on the stocks
on the reappearance of the Britannia, but
came in handy a few months later when
Rampton’s Endeavor had to be abandoned
in Dusky Sound. Finished and named the
Providence, the new craft carried a crew of
60 to Norfolk Island and Sydney, but came
to grief shortly after.
What was the “Pritchard affair ” which
caused friction between England ■ and France
100 years ag0? —1396.
Pritchard. British Consul and merchant at
Tahiti, caused displeasure to' the French by
advising Queen Pomare to oppose French
interests. The French retaliated by arrest-
ing Pritchard and placing him on a British
man-o’-war, which started for England. On
a protest being made to the French Govern-
ment Pritchard was paid an indemnity of
100,000 francs. This awoke a storm of in-
dignation in France, Guizot (the Foreign
Minister) being accused of truckling to
Britain. King Louis Philippe refused to dis-
miss Guizot, and his attitude contributed to
his ultimate downfall.
Brief Answers.
Annabelle: The horse apparently has pica.
Place a lump of rock salt in the feeding trough and
supply plenty of green feed to correct any possible
vitamin deficiency. If no green feed is available,
give lucerne hay or chaff with a bran mash two or
three times weekly... .M.S.: There-was a shortage of
one inch in each of the 12 yards; no error in the
odd foot. Therefore, deduct one foot, making length
36ft M.R.: An authority signed bv yourself and
three sisters, duly witnessed and addressed to the
trustee (your mother) to pay your shares of rent
into her own account for her sole use until such
authority may be withdrawn or revoked, should be
sufficient. It would be well for the trustee to
formally notify you of each such payment... .M.I).
(Wentworth Falls) : Send us your name and we will
post full particulars... .J.G.: Under the Landlord
and Tenant (Rent Reduction) Act 1931 (Vic.), you
are entitled to deduct 4s. Od. from every £1 of the
original rent. The landlord has a right to appeal.
....G.K.F . :“Paley on Summary Convictions” is a
standard work but both expensive and technical.
Write to Law Book Co., 140 Phillip-street, Sydney,
which may be able to supply you with an elementary
work at a reasonable price... .L.S.M.: The “Table
of Kindred and Affinity” is silent as to grand-nieces;
there is, however, a blood relationship which might
make it inadvisable to marry if there is any patho-
logical objection... .J. 8.; It is A’s duty to muster
and remove the cattle. Write to him that if he no
longer requires agistment he must remove the stock
and that until he does so the agistment fee will be
charged... .C.G.M.; Such marriages are not for-
bidden and are made frequently. Provided the family-
history of health is satisfactory on both sides,
medical opinion is not opposed to the marriage of
cousins. .. .W.S.H.: Use silent domes, rounded metal
fixtures procurable from any ironmonger... .F.W.:
A form can be obtained from the Registrar-General's
Dept., Sydney L.M.H.: “The Cutter’s Guide,” by
M. E. Roberts (10s. 6d.), Angus and Robertson.
. ...F.M.G.: See “The ‘Times’ History of the War
in South Africa,” Doyle’s “Great Boer War,” Wil
kinson’s “Australia at the Front” and Abbott’s
“Tommy Cornstalk” J.L.C.: Get in touch with
McDowells, King-street, Sydney, or A. H. Wills.
285 Little Collins-street, Melbourne... .A.M.E.:
It appeared on the silent screen as “A Still, Small
Voice,” with Henry B’. Walthall in the leading r6l<.
. ...F.L.H.: Chance of a job is remote..'. .A. W.W.:
“Primer of Book Collecting,” by John T. Winterich ;
“Treasure Trove in Bookland,” by Henry de Hal-
salle; and catalogues issued by Bumpus,
350 Oxford-street, London, W. 1... .C.W.G.: Write
to the Taxing Master, Prothonotary’s Office,
Supreme Court, Elizabeth-street, Sydney. .. .
R. 5.8.: (1) Write Lecturer-in-cliarge, Sheep
and Wool Dept., East Sydney Tech., Darlinghurst.
(2) Director, Museum, Harris-street, Sydney. (3)
From Arthur Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street.
Sydney. (4) Suggest you place the matter before
the Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney... .V.D.H.: Either
“monies” or “moneys” is permissible. .. .J.R.R.:
Chances not very bright. Communicate with island
traders. .. .G.T.L.; Write Rabbit Fur Farmers’ Assoc..
Box 110411, G.P.0.. Sydney H.T.P.: Both draw-
ings are by C. H. Percival... .T.C.M.C.: Can’t say
which bridge problem is the hardest. Tiiere are too
many of them. .. .C.P.R.: Palgrave’s “Chairman's
Handbook” (ss. 3d.), and Monro’s “Guide for the
Chairman and Secretary” (3s. 3d.), Angus and
Robertson... .H. A. L.: Ordinary white talcum or
white face-powder dusted on to dark hair will give
a grey appearance, or a little powdered lamp-black
may be added to very fine white face-powder. There
is no standard recipe. .. .W.F.W.; (1) No. (2)
Ye5....T.K.; Persons in such positions are not paid
a proportionate amount of their employer’s earnings
but receive a fixed salary which varies according to
ability and the importance of the employer.. . .
D.G.; The Land Administration Board, Brisbane,
supplies poison baits for the destruction of dingoes.
. ...D.M.; Write to Secretary of the Admiralty.
Whitehall, London. .. .H.K.M.R.; The fact that you
were married in M.L. would not affect an application
for divorce in Vic. if you have been domiciled there
for two years and did not go there for the divorce...
P.F.R.; Consult the solicitors who drew up the
agreement. They, possibly, could put pressure on
him... .E.G.N.; England; write to the Paymaster-
General, Whitehall, S.W.I, London; Ireland: to.
Accountant-General, Belfast, and Attorney-General,
Dublin. Not aware of any fee, but you
would be notified. .. .G.K.: The land would
have to be retransferred; it does not follow
that the solicitor’s fee would be as much as
when first transfer was made, though stamp duties
would be the same W.A.8. : The rate of interest
probably would be subject to reduction under the
legislation passed in conformity with the Premiers'
Plan. . . .W.G.P.: Write Secretary, Air Board, Defence
Dept., Melbourne, Vic P. 8.: it is spelt with two
r’s and means “come here”. .. . H.A.C.: Write direct
to the American Consulate at Brisbane. Before a
person may be admitted to the United States as a
student, he must first be accepted by an institution
of learning approved by the Department of Labor,
and must present satisfactory evidence of financial
ability to maintain himself during the period of his
residence without working. .. .D.M.: Book is very
common ; secondhand, about 2s. 6d A.G.M.: Aus.
Drug Co., 20 O’Connell-street, Sydney, 12s. per pound,
all quantities... .V.M.K.S.: Get in touch with Motor
Supplies, Ltd., Perry-street, Brisbane. .. .J.B. B.:
Write Agriculture Dept., Brisbane, for pamphlet,
“Coffee-growing in Queensland” A.M.P.: Warbolox
obtainable from Osmond and Son, Grimsby (Eng-
land) .. . .L.S.S.: No edition published since 1929. .. .
D. J.M.L.: Write Secretary, Roy al Geographical Soe.,
Kensington Grove, London, 5.W.7... .McL.; Inst i-
tute of Chartered Accountants in Australia, 67 York-
street; Federal Institute of Accountants, 56 Young-
street ; Commonwealth Institute of Accountants, 7
Wynyarcl-street, and International Accountants’ Coup.,
133 Pitt-street —all Sydney... .A. M.T. : T. Nelson and
Sons, Paternoster-row, London. E.C.4 ; George Philip
and Son, 32 Fleet-street, London, E.C.4... .L.C.R.:
He was the subject of a Red Page article in The
Bulletin of October 19, 1911. ... J.W.W.: Get in
touch with A. Saxelby, 64 Young-street, Neutral
8ay.... J.H.: The work should only be attempted by
a skilled engineer... .K. 8.: (1) No deduction allow-
able. (2) Tiie allowance in respect of a child
terminates when he attains 16....N.E.; Where an
actual violation of a right, legal or equitable, arises
the Court may grant, an injunction against the
violator. You would find it difficult to establish
an exclusive right to the style and color of a
uniform. A simple course would be to attach
a badge with the title of your service to the cap
or sleeve of the uniform A.0.C.: Information not
available locally. You will have to write abroad.
W.W.; What you describe as a further amend-
ment, “that the matter stand over till next meeting’’
was not an amendment but a substantive resolution.
Original resolution as amended remains for considera-
tion at next meeting F.M.: Don’t know of any
organisation which could assist you.. .W.T.G.: Robert
Harborough Sherard wrote one. Obtainable second-
hand from Angus and . Robertson. .. .0.C.F.: There
is no award applying to a gardener employed in a
private home in N.S.W (Many others mailed.)


DOPE
BY
GRANTLEY LORRENS.
BOOK IV—THE SYLVANIA.
Chapter IV ( Continued ).
JOHNS stared absently at the water, it
was incredible that it should be only
7 yesterday that it had been a merciless
inferno, sullen and grey; that it should have
been this same ocean that had joined in a
conspiracy of destruction with that now blue
sky, and had taken and tossed the Spin-
drift like an atom of cork, thrusting her,
battering and smashing her until she gave
up thd struggle.
But there were concrete evidences about
him. Even the liner, which seemed a
leviathan by contrast with the Spindrift,
had not escaped scot-free. Not ten feet
from him the stanchions of the rail were
bent and twisted, so that they leaned
drunkenly towards the deck; and further
forward he could see the ship’s carpenter
and a couple of deck hands putting new
glass in the portholes that had been
smashed in.
But to-day the ocean dreamed again,
breathing quietly against the liner’s side,
and the blue of the skies was as unbroken
as it had been through the long weeks
while they had cruised across the “painted
ocean” in the Spindrift.
The arrival of Gibbons by his side dis-
turbed his reverie; yet, strangely enough,
the conversation that started carried on the
trend of his thoughts.
"Johnny, I reckon she’s going to get
better,” Gibbons said softly, a.s he leaned
his elbows on the rail. “She thinks so. too
—and so does the doc. He says she’s got
the spirit of twenty, and that she’s going
to pull herself through.”
“Yes,” Johns nodded, “she has, Steve.
She’s a wonder.” He turned suddenly and
laid his hand on the other’s arm. “Steve,
we know what Flora’s been—in the old
days. And it ought to make us all the
more reverent towards her. She’s pulled
up, and she’s pulled me up, too! It’s more
than ninety-nine wives in a hundred could
have done.” 1
Gibbons shook his head. “There’s no
need to praise Flora to me, Johnny. I knew
her long before you did. Never mind what
die might have been—for a little while,
ft doesn’t make any difference to what she
really is.”
“A Madonna,” Johns put in, and his eyes
glowed with a moist brilliance. . “A
Madonna, Steve.”
“Yes, a Madonna, Johnny. And I told
her just now that I’d be proud that my
youngsters were having her for a mother.
You remember what you said to me the
other day?”
Johns nodded.
“Well, you were right, Johnny. It was
just that that had been worrying her. And
when I told her—and it wasn’t an easy
thing to say to her, Johnny—she seemed
to change immediately. ‘Now I know I’ll
get better. Steve’ she told me, and her
eyes were like two live coals, Johnny. ‘Now
I 7nust get better, Steve!’ And then she
just turned over and went straight off to
sleep.”
For a space they watched the ocean in
silence.
“It’s funny, isn’t it”—Gibbons’s voice
was ruminative—“it’s funny that, after all
these months, and all that’s happened, we
should finish up here, not twenty-four hours
out of Zandavar! The world’s a small
place. We’ve been through strange times,
and yet to-morrow we’ll step ashore, you
and I, and find everything just the same.”
“Not quite, Steve. They’ll be different
for you. Much happier. You’ve lost the
Spindrift; you may be penniless, except
for your hundred or so in the bank; but
you’ll only just be starting life, really. A
man isn’t really alive until he’s got some-
one to look after and to care for besides
himself. You’ll find that money ’ doesn’t
count for so very much when you’ve got
the right woman to keep you company.”
“And what about you, Johnny? You’re
better off, too, aren’t you?”
Johns shook his head “Zandavar won’t
be the same to me, Steve. It could never
be. There’s Wooden Charlie—it’s not much
consolation to be able to put a few flowers
on a grave, is it? I feel that I’m losing
all my best friends. First the Smiths— •
they were good friends, really, you know—
then Wooden Charlie. And soon you and
Flora.”
“But there’s Fay, Johnny.”
Johns sighed. “That’s just it, Steve. Is
there Fay? I’m a long way from England
yet. And even when I get there I’ve got
to be something before I can say anything
to her. Her father’s a wealthy man, and
one can’t go asking to be kept!”
“But the book, Johnny? That’s gving
well, isn’t it?”
“I think so.” He was not optimistic. “But
what the public will think about it—if I get
a publisher for it—is another matter.” He
smiled whimsically. “They say that if the
author’s pleased with anything he writes,
he’s sure to be the only one that is.”
“Oh, rats!” Gibbons, in his new-found
happiness, refused to vision failure for the
other.
“Of course it will be a success, Johnny!
You’ve got the brains—miles above the
average, as you jolly well know. And you
wouldn’t be satisfied with anything unless
it was good.”
Johns shrugged. He hoped that such
was the case. He had revised the manu-
script thoroughly and repeatedly, and he
felt that it was good. But self-criticism,
he knew, was one of the most difficult
accomplishments
“The trouble is,” he explained to the
other, “that it’s very hard to get the mental
perspective right. It’s not easy to stand off
and look at yourself, or your work, through
the eyes of the people who will be the
judges. I’ve done it a good many times
under the cocaine,” he added reflectively.
“A strange thing, that. I’ve often felt, when
I’ve been at my very worst even, that
another ‘me’ has been watching the idiocy
of the cocainised ‘me.’ A funny sensation.
You feel that you want to shout at your-
self to stop acting the fool, to pull your-
self together again.”
Readers of “Bulletin” serials will have a vivid recollection of Monty
Grover’s brilliantly written “Thirty Pieces of Silver. In his stories Mr.
Grover is never conventional. Yet Thirty Pieces of Silver trod a familiar
path compared with “One Punch Patsy,” his latest novel, which will open
in these pages on September 7. One Punch Patsy is a pugilist, and the
story of his career is entirely a story of pugs and artists and their friends—
including Buff Cody, the trainer, one of the most picturesque and enter-
taining characters ever drawn by an Australian writer.
“One Punch Patsy” is going to have as large a circle of friends as any
serial ever printed by The Bulletin.
“But those days are gone, Johnny, aren’t
they? You don’t ever feel you want it
now?”
Johns shook his head. “Not a scrap-
thank God! I don’t think it’s possible to
describe the feeling you have. It’s like
waking out of a nightmare and switching
on the light to find that you’re still in bed,
safe and sound.”
“That’s what Flora must feel, too.”
Gibbons turned awkwardly to face Johns
“She’s safe and sound. Johnny. And it’s
thanks to you. If you hadn’t hit against
her door that night, you’d neither be where
you are. God knows where either of you
would have been! I’m mighty grateful to
you, Johnny—or to Fate or Providence or
whatever it was that took you there.”
Johns nodded. “Yes, I suppose that’s
one way to look at it. But if it hadn’t been
for me, she wouldn’t have had that haemor-
rhage.”
“Of course she would! That doctor chap’s
quite sure of it. He says it’s a marvel she
went for so long without it. For the love
of Mike get that out of your head, Johnny!
It was no more your fault than it was
mine.”
But Johns, although he managed to con-
vince Gibbons that he was persuaded that
such was true, was not happy in his con-
science. Two or three times during the
day the doubt cropped up again He felt
a sense of responsibility; if she died he
would feel that it was liis fault
That evening he taxed the doctor with
the question, but even the positive opinion
that he got did not satisfy him.
“Of course it would have happened—
anyway, within a day or two,” the young
medico told him. “She was bound to have
a strain sooner or later. It was just an
unlucky coincidence that it should have
been you who caused it. But there’s an-
other way to look at it. You’ve got to
remember that very often these haemor-
rhages do more good than harm. It’s not
at all uncommon to find cases that have
been dragging on for months or even years,
clear up remarkably after a bleeding.”
“Does that mean you think she’s going
to get well?”
“Probably. I’ll be surprised if she
doesn’t. She seems different already; in
just the few hours since the wedding.”
And with that Johns
had to be satisfied.
The doctor, although
still young and
eathusi astic, had
matured beyond the
stage ol' dogmatic
prognosis.
But of one thing
Johns was satisfied.
He had a little
money, and every
penny of it. il neces-
sary. would go in
medical fees at Zan-
davar. There would
surely be someone
there who would give a definite opinion one
way or the other; and until he had that
he would not be satisfied.
Chapter V.
Leaning against the rail of the lower
deck, Ernest William Johns, M.A. Oxon.,
listened to the subdued beat of the engines,
as they moved slowly, barely more than
“dead slow.” Up above, on the promenade
deck, all was chatter and confusion. Down
below, on the surface of the still water, all
was noise. The shrill jabbering of the
natives, already started on their bartering
with the passengers lining the rail of the
upper deck, mingled with the comments
and the questions of the curious white folk.
But he himself was aloof from it all. He
was in another world, apart from the aggres-
sive liveliness about him. His thoughts
moved softly, slowly, as though in time
with the engines. To-day marked the
closing of another epoch. One fight was
finished. He was coming back a victor to
the jfiace whence he had set out a victim
only eight swift months before. But he
was coming back, too, to the place that had
once held Wooden Charlie—and Fay.
Zandavar—the city of partings.
And, in a few hours now. there would
be another parting. Gibbons and Flora.
They, too, would be going out of his life.
He. was like a vampire bat, he told himself
unhappily. A Bram Stoker creature in real
life. He seemed to exist by living on people
—draining them until he had taken his fill,
and then moving on to someone else!
An absurd idea! He was a fool to think
like that. As if it was his fault! He
could see the illogicality of his reasoning,
and yet it still obsessed him. But this
time things would be different. He was
himself again. Cured of his craving, and
with his book three-quarters written, he
was in a position to fight his way. It was
going to be a hard fight admittedly—he
must take any position he could find to
start with. But it would be worth it in the
long run. Anything worth getting had to
be fought for.
Perhaps he could get a job writing—even
hack-work like he had done in Sydney.
There was probably one English paper in
the place. And that would allow him to
save enough for his passage home. Third
class, it could not be so terribly expensive.
A year it would take him, perhaps. Or
even two. But the time would pass. And
then his book!
But he resolutely refused to let his
thoughts dwell on that. Time enough when
he had found a publisher.
It was the sudden dying away of the
subdued throbbing of the engines that put
an end to his gloomy musings. The Syl-
vania was about to tie up. A few minutes
now, and he would be on his way ashore.
As the liner swung slowly round, the
panorama of the harbor unfolded itself
before his eyes. Lazily he let them travel
over the mass of small craft that lay at
anchor. Idly they roved until the familiar-
lines of one of the vessels arrested their
progress, and centred his attention so that
he stiffened suddenly, and shaded his eyes
with his hand, although the sun was behind
him.
There could be no mistaking her. The
cut-away stern was unmistakable—and the
long, gangling figure, barely discernible,
draped over the rail, with its back towards
the Sylvania. was also familiar. Michael
Varley—and the Surf Queen! The world
was small.
As he watched, another figure appeared
on deck. Ho would have recognised it at
twice, the distance as being that of Etty.
She walked towards the other figure and—
“ Well, I’m damned!” Johns muttered—
put her arm round the “doctor’s” shoulders,
and they stood thus until the Sylvania,
still swinging slowly, excluded them from
view.
“Well, I’m damned!” Johns told himself
again. So Michael Varley had gained his
point, apparently. Johns could not imagine
Etty Smith making a public caress unless
she were married, or engaged at least.
Gibbons and Flora; Etty and Varley. A
sudden desire to tell Flora the news turned
him quickly from the rail. But he had not
gone twenty feet along the deck before a
steward stopped him.
“You're wanted, Mr. Johns. In the
master’s stateroom. There’s a policeman
there, too,” he added, in a voice of respect-
iul sympathy. It was hard luck, he
thought, that Mr. Johns should have
escaped the perils of the ocean only to
fall into the hands of a fat Dutch police-
man in port.
Nor did Johns feel particularly happy
as he knocked at the door of the cap-
tain’s stateroom. That affair at Wooden
Charlie’s; that worse encounter in the
little, narrow, moonlit alleyway—he won-
dered how he would be able to prove to a
Court’s satisfaction that it had been done
in self-defence!
To his surprise, Gibbons was there also.
Gibbons and Captain Anderson, the police-
man whom the steward had mentioned.
(“He looks good natured enough, anyway!”
Johns tried to cheer himself.) And a thin-
faced, clean-shaven j’oung man, obviously
English and a person of some importance.
He carried a brief-bag on his knee.
Johns hesitated at the threshold, looking
from one to the other. The policeman, fat
and stolid, stared at him placidly, with the
impersonal aloofness that is the preroga-
tive of guardians of the law, irrespective of
nationality. The captain nodded pleasantly,
and waved him to a chair. The thin-faced
young man began to open his brief-bag with
the crisp incisiveness that was his out-
standing characteristic. Stephen Gibbons
sat silent, obviously puzzled as to what
all the meeting was about.
“Sit down, Mr. Johns.” The captain
nodded again, kindly. “This is Mr. Car-
stairs,” he went on, indicating the crisp
young man. who looked up suddenly, said
“Pleased to meet you” with a Cambridge
accent that belied the Americanism of his
words, and then returned to his brief-bag.
There was silence in the stateroom while he
studied some papers that .he had produced.
It was obvious that Mr. Carstairs was, for
the time being, the master of ceremonies.
Outside, the noise and bustle of arrival
went on, increasing rather than diminish-
ing, and the noise emphasised the quietness
of the cabin.
“Have you your passport with you. by
any chance, Mr. Johns?”
The question cut the silence like a knife.
Not so much by virtue of its loudness, for
the voice of the young man was modulated
by culture, but rather by the incisiveness
that seemed to be its owner’s inalienable
characteristic.
The passport was, in fact, practically the
sole possession that Johns had brought with
him from Wooden Charlie’s on the night of
the fire, and that only because he had
always clung to it through thick and thin.
Always he had been accustomed to pin it
securely in some pocket of the clothes he
happened to be wearing. It had always
been to him a symbol—the sole link with
the old life, and he had felt that if he
were to be without that he would be lost.
He handed it over. Carstairs seemed sur-
prised that it should be forthcoming, but
said nothing beyond a perfuctory “Thank
you.” He studied it carefully for a moment.
“You’ve changed,” he observed. “But.
still, it’s good enough to identify you. I
think the inspector will agree with me
there.”
He handed it to the policeman. Johns
stared at the latter in astonishment. He
found it difficult to eradicate his first im-
pression that the official was merely a
stolid constable. He watched him as he
scrutinised first the photograph and then
Johns himself. Johns managed to meet his
eye calmly. Finally, with a nod. the in-
spector handed the passport back to Car-
stairs.
“Well, that saves us a lot of trouble."
the latter announced, a little more humanly.
“Otherwise we might have had to put you
through a cross-examination”—he broke
off to eye Johns a little mischievously be-
fore he added—“as to who was the gentle-
man who was responsible, or who claims the
responsibility, for your—er —vicissitudes?
Johns stared at him. “Young Willestair'
he exclaimed involuntarily.
Carstairs grinned, and this time his voice
had lost its professional severity.
“Quite!” he agreed, the Anglicism lend-
ing, to Johns's ears, an added incongruity.
That this Carstairs, in Zandavar, should
know so much about him was too ridiculous;
lie would waken soon and find that it was
all a dream.
“You’ve given us a lot of trouble, Mr.
Johns,” the crisp young man went on. “A
considerable amount of trouble.” His voice
became incisive again. “Now, touching the
death of Charles Rymington Dclaruc
Wynne!” he said, and looked at Johns
interrogatively. The blank expression on
the latter’s face brought a twitch of amuse-
ment to Carstairs’s thin lips. “Otherwise,
and obviouslv better known as. Wooden
Charlie!”
Johns started and involuntarily turned
his eyes towards the inspector. The latter
stared placidly at him, and Johns turned
back to Carstairs, his lips suddenly dry.
“You knew that he was dead?” Car-
stairs eyed him curiously.
Johns nodded. “It was I who dragged
him out of the fire,” he said, but there was
no pride in his bravery to edge the words-
He was thinking only of Wooden Charlie
lying dead while his establishment burned
itself to annihilation.


«#■
0f> 1
M
ir
m
:
Every part accessible .... comes apart
in units, quickly replaced. Hands
clean and no time wasted. This is
one feature of many which make the
new British-made Imperial the finest
machine you can buy. It will save you
many pounds in repair bills during its
lifetime.
Sold at a fixed price, £39/10/- for the Office
Model and £l9/19/- for the Portable.
Guaranteed for three years against faulty
workmanship and materials; serviced free
for the first 12 months.
8
GOOD
REASONS
board.
■Six
deters.
extra
key-
char-
-1 nte
fclu
triage.
Clear c
Teabl@
hn
e t'cli i
type.
geabl c
Thten
pilal p
lotion. ca Peniei)(
fet.' aI “ Pin -Toh lt ’
*Pec>al T ,
op v/ Ce Peking
PRICE,
£39/10/-
The British
The following Type
writers have been re-
placed by new Imperial
machines, and are
offered for sale, recon-
ditioned and guaranteed,
at attractive prices.
Late Model Remington, Under-
wood, Royal, L. C. Smith,
£l5 rebuilt; £l2 10s. over-
hauled. Earlier Models, £10;
other makes, £B. If the
nature of your work does not
warrant the expenditure on a
new Imperial, these machines
will be found to be thoroughly
serviceable. They are sold on
a definite money-back guaran-
tee if they are uot satisfactory
in every way.
Imperial Typewriter
Sales Company,
58 Young St., Sydney.
Geo. Raitt Pty., Ltd.,
40 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
Burridge & Warren,
Ltd.,
69 King Street, Perth.
Office Supplies Co.,
105 Macquarie Street,
Hobart.
L. Dobell & Co., Ltd.
43 Creek Street,
Brisbane.
Office Equippers, Ltd.
Gawler Place,
Adelaide.
The
Agents,
Imperial Type-
writers.—l would
appreciate further
information regarding
the new model Imperial
British Typewriter. Thank you !
NAME
ADDRESS
Fill in, and post to your nearest Agent.
in
.v.-vy
NOW OBTAINABLE
LAMPS *5/-
IX L CARBIDE out-of-door Lamps are
unbreakable and will not blow out in
the wind. They provide the cheapest
and simplest means of portable lighting
on farm and station.
USE IX L CARBIDE LAMPS FOR
SHEARING AND PACKING SHEDS
STATION QUARTERS, DAIRIES,
WEEK-END COTTAGES, SHACKS
AND HUTS, BARGES AND FISHING
BOATS, YACHTS, HUNTING AND
FISHING, CAMPING, ETC., ETC.
If unobtainable locally, a Lamp
for any of the above purposes
may be obtained on application to
H. JONES & CO. PTY. LTD.
Distributing Agents for Australia of
IXL CARBIDE
G.P.O. Box 639 “D, ‘' Hobart, Tasmania.
Priced at 5/-, postage paid.
Carstairs suddenly cleared his throat.
“There is some doubt about the manner of
his death,” he said. “And my friend here”
—he indicated the inspector—“who does
not speak English, by the way, except for
‘yes’ and ‘no’ and such-like, has come
aboard to see what you can tell him. I,
by the way, am private secretary to H. M.
Consul here,” he added as an after-thought.
Again his voice dropped its incisiveness.
“And, believe me, it’s not often I have
to get busy chasing people aboai’d ship.
It’s usually a curt request to call at the
office from us; but His Nibs has come out
of his shell this time. You see, apparently
His Nibs was at school with ‘old Bulls-
wool.’ ” He chuckled as Johns jumped.
“Yes, it’s a fact! His Nibs referred to him
as ‘old Bullswool’ in front of me! And
when ‘old Bullswool’ shows interest in any-
one, why, His Nibs here just naturally feels
constrained to do the polite!”
Johns stared at this young secretary-man
incredulously. The fellow must be raving!
But Carstairs, watching the other’s face,
chuckled gleefully and slapped his knee.
“It’s a fact, old man! I’m Cambridge
myself, but damme if I can see my old
college Head running round in circles and
yapping just because I had left the straight
and narrow! As I told you, you’ve been
giving us a lot of trouble.”
The inspector of police mumbled some-
thing, apparently addressing the porthole.
Carstairs nodded, made some answer, and
again turned to Johns. His voice once
more was incisive, business-like.
“The Inspector is getting restive. What
he wants ip know is, first, did you see
Wooden Charlie murdered?”
Johns shook his head. “No, I didn’t
actually see the shooting.”
Carstairs turned to the Inspector, obvi-
ously translating.
“Two, did you see anyone whom you
suspected of the deed?”
Again Carstairs translated Johns’s des-
cription of the raised voices that he had
heard, and of how he had come out of the
private room to hear, first, the denunci-
ation by the Italian woman, and then the
statement by the drunken American who
had run amok. It was then, for the first
time, that the Inspector showed signs of
animation. At the end of Carstairs’s trans-
lation, he burst into a flood of Dutch which
threatened, or so it seemed to the still-
anxious Johns, to inundate the Englishman
beyond all hope of rescue.
At the end of it Carstairs turned to
Johns with a nod. “You’ll be pleased to
hear,” he told him, “that that statement
of yours exonerates you from any sus-
picion of possible guilt. Not that they
really had any, to tell you the truth. And
the Inspector wants me to tell you that he
apologises for any trouble or misgiving
that his presence here may have caused
you. Now, Captain Gibbons, one question
for you to answer, please. We understand,
thanks to the wireless operator of this
boat, who sent on news of your rescue, with
the names of the people concerned—which,”
he added, interpolating to Johns, “explains
my catching you on the hop like this—we
understand, Captain Gibbons, that you
were yesterday married to the young lady
who helped Mr. Johns away from Zanda-
var?”
Gibbons nodded, a little uneasily. But
Carstairs made no further reference to
Flora, as she must have been known to the
police before her sojourn on the Spindrift.
He merely wished to know, he said, whether
the exact date of the Spindrift’s sailing had
been March 18th?
“Yes,” Gibbons told him. “At five a.m.,
with the tide.”
“Right!” Carstairs nodded and turned
again to the Inspector. A minute later he
turned back to Johns.
“That clears you definitely,” he repeated.
“And also makes you an important witness.
They are still holding the American here.
He was arrested on suspicion, thanks to
the evidence of the Italian woman.
Strangely enough, the police were after her
for some other offence, which we needn’t
specify, and they arrested her in the crowd.
I suppose her idea was to get in their
good books, but the first thing she did was
to tell them about the murder, and even
to admit she had been sitting with the
American just before he killed Wooden
Charlie. But they can’t very well do any-
thing on her unsupported evidence, and
they have been trying to get a witness to
come forward. Now, of course, that you
are here that difficulty is solved. But they
won’t want you to go into court. As I
said before, His Nibs started hopping
round when he heard from ‘old Bullswool,’
and he has arranged things so that, if you
can identify the American as the man who
admitted doing the killing, and make a
signed statement to that effect, you will
be able to go straight to England—lucky
devil!—on the Sylvania, if you want to.”
He chuckled suddenly. “It does beat the
band, doesn’t it?”
He rose and the Inspector rose with him.
“Let us have Sutherland in now, Cap-
tain Anderson, will you?” Carstairs said
to the Captain; and then, as the captain
pressed the bell on his table, he turned
back to Johns, and held out his hand.
“Sorry I can’t wait now to see you take
the news,” he said with a chuckle. “But
give us a look in at the office if you man-,
age to find the time. The boss wants to
•‘ee you to have a chat. Here’s the lucky
man!” he added, as a newcomer appeared
at the door. “Mr. Johns —Mr, Sutherland.
Tell him it’s up to him to give us the best
dinner he can buy, Stan,” he added as he
turned to the door. “Everything’s O.K.
I’ve identified him for you.”
Sutherland smiled as he took the chair
that Carstairs had vacated. He nodded
at Stephen Gibbons.
“Sorry to hear of your loss, Captain,”
he said. It was obvious that he knew the
other. Gibbons shrugged.
“I’ve found something to make up for
it, Stan,” he answered.
“Yes, we heard you were married. Con-
gratulations.”
He looked doubtfully at Johns. “I have
some news for you. Mr. Johns. It may
rather astonish you.”
Johns shook his head as Gibbons, taking
the hint, started for the door.
“Don’t go, Steve,” he smiled whimsi-
cally. “I may need someone to help me
hear it.”
Sutherland chuckled. “It won’t need
much hearing, Mr Johns! You’ve been
a much sought after person these last
eight months. What with the police, and
ourselves — I represent Neidelsen and
Strauss, the biggest law firm here—to say
nothing of the' authorities at Oxford! We
advertised for you extensively after Wooden
Charlie’s death. And, as a matter of fact,
it was one of our advertisements in Mel-
bourne—Australia, you know—that put
Oxford on your trail. However, that can
all be explained afterwards. The point that
I want to get to is this: Charles Ryming-
ton Delarue Wynne, to give Wooden
Charlie his ..official name, was a client of
ours, and a wealthy one at that. And, by
a strange coincidence —a fortunate one for
you—he called at our office the day before
his death to sign a will that we had drawn
up for him. There were other documents,
too, relating to the sale of his business, but
those don’t affect you.” The lawyer’s
representative paused to give effect to his
words that were to follow. “But the will,
Mr. Johns, was in your favor. You are,
in fact, the sole beneficiary. We have
adjusted the estate, and, after probate and
all other taxes and dues have been paid,
there is, waiting for you to claim it, just
a little over forty-three thousand pounds
English!”
(To he continued next week.)
Helen in the Moonlight.
To Helen I opened my amorous soul
As the moon rode the sky,
Appearing on top of a telegraph-pole
Like a dot on an I.
I referr’d to her graces, I dwelt on her
charms
With many a sigh,
And in fervent entreaty I lifted my arms
Like the arms of a Y.
She resisted what seem’d an eternity,
Till the moon hover’d low,
And look’d —at any rate, look’d to me —
Like the O of a “No.”
But I pled till I saw in my beauty’s face
Her leave to caress,
And we lock’d our arms in delicious embrace,
Like the S in a “Yes.”
N.S.W
H. WILSHIRE.
Winter Evening.
Who is this stranger come
Into the circle of lamp and flame?
See, her eyes are lighted and wild;
Hhe does not know my name.
See, within her cheek
Is a light, but not the light of my kiss.
Her hair seems wild with ecstasy,
Her mouth aglow with bliss.
Outside the dusk is still;
The trees stretch up quiet arms
To an empty sky, the flower petals
Are like uplifted palms.
Some secret lives ’tween earth
And Heaven ; we do not know, but she,
Has breathed it and it quickens now
Within her hauntedly.
Her eyes are coming home,
Her cheek dies down and her sweet hair
Falls to a neatness ; I cannot
Forget the dusk slept there.
Ah, though she knows my name,
Her voice is far, her hands are chill;
It seems to me the winter evening
Beside my fire sits still.
VICTORIA.
JEAN IRWIN.
Hiking.
Tht* fates ordained it so, and so.
Through a fantastic wonderland,
Hiking along, light-heart we go,
By sunlit shore and thunderland,
While, still beside us night and day,
Death tiptoes slyly all the way.
Across wide plains of drowsy light,
By belts of jungled maziness.
Ever toward a shimmering height.
Gleaming through dream-seen haziness ;
By lonely homes, by town and town,
By desert regions baked and brown;
By solitudes of dark surmise,
Morasses unexplorable,
To laughter lands and laughing eyes
And hot-lip girls adorable,
To gallant days and nights of wine
And revelries half-clandestine;
By darkling ledge and perilous track.
Through shadow-haunted fastnesses:
By hills where stormclouds, trailing black,
Gallop through vista’d vastnesses
And down dank gorges, dark with doom.
Still jostling Death for elbow-room;
By ways that bless and ways that curse,
Deeps of despair and days of song,
Bightfoot. light-heart and light of purse,
With tiptoe Death we hike along,
By plains of peace and peaks of strife,
On through the wonderland of life.
N.S.W.
BARTLETT ADAMSON.


TO-DAY
To-day is the to-morrow you were thinking of yesterday.
There is hardly anything that the average person procrastinates
about quite so much as money-saving, despite that the same average
person has a comparatively small income, knows that he must spend
carefully and save wisely, and knows, too, the best way to do it.
Have you done, to-day, what you yesterday put off until to-
morrow?
You can open a Savings Bank Account anywhere, because the
Commonwealth Savings Bank is represented in every district in Aus-
tralia, and with any amount, from one shilling upwards.
It is so easy—you have only to register your signature and deposit
your shilling (or more) and you will have started on your saving
campaign to-day.
Commoiiwcaltl) Savmas JBankof Hustralia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government).
Australia
D N
Even more luxurious even
more charming Sydney’s
“Australia,” brilliantly re-
decorated in the modern
manner.
NEW “ROOM ONLY” RATES.
Single Room from 10/6 per day
Double Room from 20/- per day
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, 2/-
Luncheon or Dinner in the Day-room
from 4/-
Telegrapliic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
THE HOTEL OI? THE COMMONWEALTH
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
More interesting horses with important
spring engagements were produced for in-
spection and racing at Rosehill on Saturday.
On form and in appearance Veilmond stood
out from his nine opponents in the first
division of the Diindas Handicap. He opened
favorite, hut drifted to fours with the hack-
ing of Jacko (5 to 2). The pair had the
finish to themselves. The slow pace (“seven”
took Imin. 27sec.) suited Veilmond, and
brought along by Pike with a late run he
just settled Jacko, who, nevertheless, ran an
excellent race and will be all the better for
it. He had chased and cut down the speedy
Brazenfacc. King’s Arms (7 to 1) was
third, and Pretzel (any price) did well to
finish fifth considering that he is regarded
as a stayer only. He has Sst. 21b. in the
Metrop.
Pike completed a good double on Greensea
in the second division; and this time he
had a very easy ride. Greensea’s superiority
was recognised by MeShortodds, who refused
to lay more than 5 to 4; and it was evens
at the close. Hampton Plane (4 to 1), the
only other backed, was second and Love
Song (10 to 1) third with the rest strung
out. Over the last furlong it was a pro-
cession, and Greensea could have cut seconds
off the time —lmin. 27scc. again. He is a
classy-looking bay gelding by Greenstead —
Canal, and would have strong support for
the Epsom, in which he has Bst. 131 b., if
the public were sure ho could go a mile and
finish" strong.
Pike must have voted it an eventful day.
After his comfortable experience on the free-
moving Greensea he weighed out for Chide,
Gert : happened to your
PACE ?*
Bert I *1 was plaving Rug,bv
on Saturday.'' v
CqERT'. "\ CAMT SEE WHAT PLEASURE
VOU GET OUT OF THAT ROUGH
GAME
Bert*. " Oh, t get a. kck. out op it*
who loafs and has to be ridden all the
way. Four to one for the August Handicap
(Talkie was favorite at 5 to 2), Chide was
nearly a furlong behind the leader when
two of the ten furlongs had been traversed,
and MeShortodds eagerly offered sevens. But
i he chestnut made up his ground so rapidly
(hat he looked the winner at the distance; in
fact, he headed the field, with Version (10
to 1) battling it out on the rails. To many
it seemed that Pike took things too easily
over the last bit. A more feasible explana-
tion is that he was exhausted. Anyway, Ver-
sion came again and snatched victory by a
half-head; and then the praise was for
Jimmy Muuro and the dispraise for the other
•Timmy. The well-backed Dalmatic (6 to
1) was third, and Gleaner finished in the
ruck after being nearly as far behind as
Chide at the six furlongs. Version has Bst.
1 lb. in the Metrop.. and there was a good
demand for the Jacko-Version double on the
course. Version has also been coupled m
Epsom-Metrop. doubles with another New-
castle-trained horse, Johnnie Jason.
The racebook correctly indicated the plac-
iugs for the Granville Stakes —1 Orbpie, 2
Sir Morion, 3 Magnitas. Their ages are in
the reverse order—Magnitas 4, Sir Morion
5. Orbpie 6. All three are by Magpie, one
of the best English racehorses that ever
came to Australia, and one of the best sires.
Magnitas was favorite (Orbpie went out at
tens) and his backers thought Jimmy Munro
should have kept him out of the trouble into
which he palpably got on a couple of occa-
sins; but Magnitas is no easy horse to ride.
In any case, lie was not gaining at the finish
on the other two, who were separated by
half a head.
Eight of the fourteen starters in the first
division of the Three- and Four-year-old Han-
dicap were of the younger age. Enamour
(7 to 1) was the only one to move into the
money, and Kelso’s Treclare gelding could
only get third to Dunerc (8 to 1) and
Oratorian (3 to 1) , who are no great shakes.
But the second division introduced a really
good three-year-old in the Maoriland colt-
inflation, by Paper Money—Fleeting. He is
a big bay. and punters thought he looked
bigger than lie should have done, so tlie price
eased from fours to sevens and eights. But,
second-last early, Inflation came home on
the bit from Hunting Lion, also Maorjland-
hred, and the locally-trained Regal Son, and
left tlie spectators convinced that such
boomed Sydney threc-ycar-olds as Indra and
Bronze Hawk (both starters and preferred
to the invader in the betting) are not in his
class—at seven furlongs anyhow. Left out
of the Derby, Inflation is in the Epsom with
Sst. lib. MeShortodds immediately applied
the woolpress to his price.
Though the ring had had ail excellent day,
it would not lay more than 5 to 4 about
Rosendo for the Parramatta Mile. He won
from old Strength and the disappointing
Jolly Wonga, but he is really not as good
as he looks.
* * * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Park Stakes: Lavington; next, Sir Morion.
Flying Handicap; Questionnaire; next,
Workman.
Canterbury Handicap: Gleaner; next,
King March.
Tlirce-year-old Handicap; King Pin; next,
Bombastic.
Ashbury Handicap: New King; next, Sun-
lover.
Stuart Dunbar, the estate agent, regis-
tered his most important success on the turf
when Bang Bang captured the Australian
Steeplechase at Caulfield. It was nearly
as great a surprise as when Lord Darnley
led home the Australian Hurdle field a week
before. On the middle day of the Grand
National fixture Bang Bang annexed the
Keilor Hurdle, but, although he had won
steeplechases, there was nothing to suggest
that the gelding would see out a cross-coun-
try journey of 31 miles. Not only did Bang
Bang accomplish the distance, but he cut
one-fourlh of a second off the time record.
His stable-companion, Polygonum, was in
much better demand than Dunbar’s neddy.
This Grand National Hurdle hero fell before
a circuit of the course was completed.
The favorite, Sarocto, would have won
with a stand-up. He took control more than
half a mile from home and had the field
settled, but turned turtle at the third last
obstacle. Bang Bang had been deposed by
King’s Street, and the latter appeared to
have the race in hand when he led into the
straight. However, the wily Inkson re-
frained from moving on Bang Bang in
earnest until King’s Street began to tire,
which he did badly, and Bang Bang, having
some energy in reserve, vanquished the son
of King Olia by nearly two lengths in 6min.
59sec. Solely through other horses having
either fallen or knocked up. Lord Darnley
struggled into third place. It was his first
outing over stiff timber. Mosstrooper, the
invincible jumper of two seasons ago, fell,
lie must now he classified among the has-
beens. The Maorilanders, Makeup and Copcy.
performed, ingloriously; Makeup fell and
Copey finished almost last. Shooting Boy,
who. had gained third honors in the Aus-
tralian Hurdle, was scratched on the course
and produced for the Arkaringa Hurdle, in
which lie came a cropper opposite the stand.
Steve Murphy’s elation over winning the
Australian Steeplechase was mitigated when,
in the succeeding event, The Locker (7 to
4) struck his colors to The Cracksman, a
14-to-l chance. The Cracksman belongs to
T. S. Ryder, of South Aus. Fullarton. who
piloted Polygonum to victory in the Grand
National Hurdle, won the Arkaringa Hurdle
on Kcdale.
The sensation of the flat-racing was
Eastern Glow’s downfall in the Balaclava
Stakes. She went out at 5 to 4 on and < ran
last, having been eased up in the straight.
Either the marc cannot carry weight—she is
low in stature and as narrow as a match —or
something was physically amiss with her.
Ruach, who is engaged in the two cups, con-
ceded 101 b. to Sol Green’s handsome colt
Oratory in the Chatsworth Plate, and beat
him very easily; but Oratory was backward
in condition. Ruach promises to do “S. A.
Rawdon” more credit than Waterline in
the months that lie ahead.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“Tiger” Payne (12,st. 101 b.) has put on
weight since he was last in Sydney, but he
has not improved in other respects. After
Al Walker (13st. 111 b.) had knocked him
down with a left to the chin in the fourth
round of their infliction at the Stadium on
Saturday, all the ferocity went out of
“Tiger,” and the other coon was even more
careful. The decision rightly went to
Walker, but it was a rotten fight.
“Lulu”: Sydney Stadium saw an excep-
tionally deft and agile pair of two-footed
U. terpsiclioreans in action on Saturday
night. Mrs. Alice (“Al”) Walker is a tall,
svelte brunette; Miss “Tiger” Payne is
shorter and more buxom, and by comparison
almost a blonde. Mrs. Walker, who was
wearing the latest mode in white-washed eye-
brows, specialises in the “drag” waltz, her
flat-footed hacking being particularly effec-
tive. Miss Payne is the typical toedancer;
here, there and everywhere; now archly.tap-
ping her vis-d-vis on the arm, now giving
him a push on the shoulder. So it pro-
ceeded for a couple of dances, and then dur-
ing a sitting-out interval Mr. Joe Wallis
had the uugentlcmauliness to accost Mrs.
Walker as she was taking light refreshment
from a cavalier. He was understood to say,
“Hey! Are you going to fight?” Picture
the fury of the danseuse! Of course she
had not meant to do anything of the sort.
If looks could have slain Mr. Wallis would
have fallen dead on the ballroom floor. Dur-
ing No. 3 the onlookers made a queer
blunder; they mistook the two-step which
the trans-Pacific ballerinas were doing for a
fen-step; and assisted by counting rhyth-
mically up to ten several times. Early in
the next Mrs. “Al,” while performing a pas
seal (or as much seal as she could make it),
accidentally caught Miss Payne, who was
doing a nervous breakdown near by, a severe
clout on the ear. The poor girl fell, almost
senseless, and was never the same again.
The spectators supplied what encouragement
they could by singing American melodies
such as “Poor Old Joe.” All to no purpose.
The life had gone out of the party. Yet,
like the indefatigable makers of whoopee
that most Americans are, the pair insisted
on stepping it gaily right through the entire
programme of 15 items. Mrs. Walker won
the prize. You should have seen the shy flush
of pleasure with which she heard the news!
$ * '.I:
Tom Luricli is evidently unbeatable by
the wrestlers he wrangles with at Leich-
hardt. Weighing 14st. 21b., he again de-
feated Billy Mceske (13st. 121 b.) there last
Saturday night, coming to light with a new
one after each had scored a fall. As Meeske
was arguing with the referee the Russian
sneaked up behind him and back-slammed
the Australian for the decider.
Footbrawl
Melbourne’s League games on Saturday
were mostly practice matches for the four
leaders, the only team facing a chance of an
upset being Richmond, which was at home
to Footscray. The Tricolors gave the Tigers a
good go, but better system and finer marking
gave Richmond a 5-point victory—6s to 60.
A dull but fine afternoon tempted 33,000 to
the ground, but at half-time it began to
rain, and poured for a solid hour, with dis-
astrous results to 1 clothes and tempers. Carl-
ton routed Hawthorn—B4 to 62. Colling-
wood, putting in its usual last-quai’ter spurt,
turned Fitzroy’s 15-point lead at three-
quarter time into a 19-point deficit—9B to
’Roy’s 79. South Melbourne cantered away
from North with 67 points to 35. Geelong
trounced Melbourne thoroughly, collecting
104 points to the Red Legs’ 43; and Essen-
don and St. Kilda indulged in a very un-
gentlemanly scuffle, several players being
cautioned and two reported for passing each
other “one to go one with.” ’Don gathered
in 97 to St. K.’s 58.
* * * *
In their last inter-State Rugby Union
match of the season at Sydney Cricket
Ground N.S.W. beat Queensland in hollow
fashion by 22-15. The superiority of the
home team was much greater than scores
indicate, especially in the second half, the
winners getting 6 tries to 1. Ross con-
verted two tries for N.S.W., and Donnelly
kicked 4 notable penalty goals for the visi-
tors, the single try being unconverted. At
half-time it was 6 all, but the game
had been ragged and full of errors by both
sides. For N.S.W., Billman, of Bathurst,
that his reputation as a five-eighth
-was well deserved. He played the best
back game 0 n the ground. '
❖ & * *
The N.S.W. Rugby League team in
Queensland, after \ beating a metropolitan
side in Brisbane, ran all over Toowoomba,
downing the redoubtable Downsmen, who
drew with England, by 40 to 7. The Eng-
lishmen, playing their second Test against
Maoriland at Christchurch, had a hard go to
the second half, when they walked away to
win 25-14. In the League grade matches in
Sydney, the results were : Western Suburbs.
14, Eastern 10; South Sydney 23, Univer-
sity 30; Balmain 36, North Sydney 10;
Newtown 5, St. George 3,
(Continued on next 'page.)
Except for the equestrian sports, the Los
Angeles Olympiad ended on Saturday.
America leading the list of winners with
06SJ points. Italy surprised by filling
second place with 240. Highly creditable
also was the showing of the Japanese swim-
mers. On Saturday they took three finals: the
200 metres breaststroke (Taurata), the 106
metres backstroke (Ivyokawa) and the 1500
metres free style. In this the Japanese had
to face in the final Cristy and Crabbe, of
America; Noel Ryan, of Australia, and the
Frenchman, Taris. Kitomura and Makino
cleared out from the field and finished in
that order in 19min. 12 2-ssec., an Olympic
record. Noel Ryan, in fourth place behind
Cristy, put up an Australian record, and
was followed home by Crabbe and Taris.
Pearce, of course, won the sculls for Aus-
tralia, holding Miller, of America, easily.
Australia’s tiny team, with three wins, is
12th on the list of 29 teams with 46 points.
Reprints on art paper of Norman Lind-
say’s excellent page cartoon in this issue
will be forwarded to any address in
Australia or N.Z. on receipt of 6d. to
cover postage and wrapping.


-m
■JJB.
m
*L
«
«
m
«
ts
i
. -/.
I
Si
&
/??<
*
/
LET IRMA
BE YOUR
BODYGUARD
SPRING AND SUMMER ARE COMING
days when your warming skin calls for cool comfort. Replenish
your underwear stock with the best you can buy—MORLEY S, for
men, women and children.-
MORLEY’S UNDERWEAR, although of outstanding quality, is not
expensive.
AT ALL HIGH-CLASS STORES,
In lightweight wool, wool and silk, wool and cotton, cotton and art silk.
URMORLEYS
WORLD FAMOUS UNDERWEAR
English Quality — Made in Australia-
Footbrawl
“Fitzci-ay”: A quaint incident took place
in a Melbourne football match the other day.
It was in the Association tourney, and the
shocked referee told in a trembling whisper
how a player threw away the ball contrary
to the i-egulations in that case made and
provided. The offendei*, it appeared, had the
ball in his possession when one of the
enemy was awarded a free kick. His duty
as a nobleman and a gentleman under the
Association rules was to courteously hand
the ball to the person entitled to the free
kick. Instead of this he threw the ball
away, and making a rude noise with his
mouth ran down the field. The referee
explained that lie had to chase the offender
"from the centre to the half-forward line”
before he would consent to come back and
LET ’EM ALL COME!
hand over the ball. The potentates to whom
the complaint was made decided that the
change was not sustained, and buzzed it out.
❖ :J; *
“Glenelg”: Adelaide fairly did its block
when; South Australia gave the visiting Vic-
torians a hiding to the tune of 79 points
(11 goals 13 beliinds) to 64 (9 goals 10
hehinds). It was the first Wheatfielder
victory since 1929. The Cabbage Gar-
diners, seeux-e in tlxeir opinion of their
own supei’iority. had rubbed it in by pick-
ing their inter-State teams for Adelaide so
as to' include one or moi-e members, of each
club; irrespective of individual merit. This
haughty attitude brought the deserved re-
ward.
* *
“Hotham”: Football history was made in
Melbourne the other day when the first
Rugby match between Great Public Schools
was staged between Scotch College and Mel-
bourne Grammar. So far, these schools, with
Belong Grammar, are the only members of
the Victorian establishmexxts to' take up the
international game, but it is pi-etty certain
that the others will fall into line next sea-
son. Melbourne Uni. has now got to the
stage of having inter-collegiate competi-
tions for a cup presented by Cumbrae
Stewart. The semi-finals saw Ormond and
Newman in the final. This cannot be played
until next season.
Si * *
“Gate”: The Rugby League Board of Con-
trol is busy on the arrangements for the
visit of an Australian team to the North of
England next season. The first game—that
is, in 1933—wi1l be played on the last Satur-
day in xVugust, which, even in England,
should be fairly warm weathei\ The last
will be on January 1, 1934, and no mid-
week match will be played before Tests. The
Australian authorities are asking for an
undertaking from their English cobbers that
managers, players and visitors accompany-
ing playing sides be forbidden to approach
in any way players for the purpose of obtain-
ing their services. The Englishmen will
probably give that undertaking and then
ignore it, as they have always done in the
past. If any doubt it, let him run over on
his fingers the number of Australian play-
ers now earning football wages in the North-
ern Union —it is all of ten years since a
similar promise was made by the English
professional body.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: Helen -Wills has been beaten
at last. Like many folk who .have achieved
eminence in one walk of life —if tennis can
be* called that —she lias been sighing for
fresh worlds to conquer. Her ambition is
centred in what its advocates like to call
art, and she lately entered the lists at the
Los Angeles Olympiad with a water-color
exhibit in the fine arts section. Results
have shown that as an artist Helen is a
champion tennis-player. Not only did she
fail to snare an award, but one of the adjudi-
cators, a bowelless blighter named Bi’own.
went so far as to say he saw “nothing of
particular interest” in her work. Fifty
years ago in California he would have been
lynched for that.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: The last big event of the
international tennis season will be the
American national championships to be held
this month. Already many of the European
cracks ax’e in America or on their way there,
one notable figux-c being Cochet. who is
notoi’iously keen on adding the American
title to' his list. England has a strong team
led by Austin and Ferry, and these kicked
off in the Eastern States championship this
week. The Australian Davis Cup side lias
been doing fairly well in tournaments in
Germany. There was some idea of their
coming home via America, but in view of
their poor performances it is not certain if
the arrangement will be adhered to.
* * * *
“Toowong”: The annual tennis turix-up
between Queensland and N.S.W. at Bris-
bane saw the locals get it in the neck, Ma
winning by 7 rubbers to 3 after several
weather interruptions. The feature of the
tourney was the continued success of young
McGrath, who numbered the scalp of no
less a player than Moon among his collec-
tion. The boy is improving with every
game, and should go far if well nursed. As
it is, it is not unlikely that he will be
crocked by too much play before he is out
of his teens.
“Rev. Knucklebone” : In spite of its obvi-
ous disadvantages, the Davis Cup authori-
ties in conclave in Europe have decided to
endorse the idea put forward some time ago
by Norman Brookes and form a Pacific
zone. The nations included are Australia,
Maoriland, South Africa Japan, India.
China, Siam, Java and the Philippines. The
winners of this zone will meet the winners
of the South American one m the United
States, and the winners of that go will take
011 the victors of the North American
struggle. It is specified that the arrange-
ment does not bar Australia from showing
at Wimbledon or even _ challenging m the
European zone it so desired,
1
The Nineteenth Hole
“Colonel Damurizc”: My objection to the
intrusion upon golf of femininity is well
known to my readers, but it. must be said
that it is chiefly confined to the flapper sec-
tion. Provided they are sufficiently matured,
[ am quite willing to put up with associate
members, but people of the sort who refer
to one as “old Walrus” when one is con-
sidering a putt on the green they desire to
occupy I harm no time for. I am the
more intrigued because I have just read in
a Sydney paper of a widow who has just
won the Veterans’ golf championship of Ire-
land at the age of 82. I should be glad if
anyone could furnish me with the lady’s
address—her name is Collins. It seems to
me that she would make an ideal golfing
partner for myself. Besides, it is stated
that she has recently won £lO,OOO in the
Irish sweep.
* * * *
“Hamilton” : S. A. Keane, one of Sydney’s
most promising young golfers before he went
to Queensland, has been distinguishing him-
self in the Northern State, where he is now
ranged as the leading amateur since the ex-
caddie, Von Nida, went over t 0 the profes-
sional ranks. In the Royal Queensland Cup
tourney at Eagle Farm, Keane put up a new
amateur record for Queensland of 69, play-
ing the plus-one mark, of which he is the
only amateur occupant in the State. Ivo
Whitton and the Queenslander Radcliffe had
held the previous best with 70. Harry Sin-
clair, once of Moore Park (N.S.W.). holds
the professional honor with 67.
* * * *
“Carnoustie” : St. Andrews has stirred up
a bees’ byke with a vengeance with the an-
nouncement that it intends to revise the
standard of scratch scores in Britain. The
new scheme as propounded means that pre-
sent scratch scores will be lowered and pre-
sent handicaps increased. That will mean
that a player now on scratch will find him-
self playing off one or two strokes. One
would have thought that the idea would
have been welcomed, especially by those pot-
hunting handicap men who infest every club,
“Contrariwise,” as Tweedledum said. Every
golfing dud in the country is up against the
proposition, and for no other reason than
personal vanity. The man who is a scratch
player in a club at present is a Jovian
presence whom mere handicap men fear to
approach. In the same way, the man with
a plus-two brand, for instance, is a person
revered in an envious fashion by the out-
cast whose handicap is 20 or something like
that. The new rule will put the scratch
man on figures and the low marker into
closer association with the common herd.
No wonder the Sydney “Herald” comments
tearfully that “ the blow to their pride will
never be assuaged.”
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The Griffith (N-SAV.)
golferctte Miss Ebert, who recently impressed
Sydney golfers by her showing in the State
women’s golf championship, won by Joan
Hammond in which she was runner-up, made
more than good the other day on her native
heath. There she swept the board, taking
both the Riverina and the open championships
at Narrandera. A really good player, she
should shake the city giris up next year
-when experience in the big stuff has taken
away the nervousness which marked hex-
play in the championship final in Sydney.
“Blythesdale”: It was with interest that
I read in a Queensland paper the other day
that the final of the Roma (Q.) golf cham-
pionship between the Bryant brothers had
been won 4 and 3 by the elder, this making
the victor’s sixth successive championship.
It reads strange to me. When I knew Roma
the principal pastime of the counti-yside was
cattle-duffing. It was always match play in
those days, and if old Brugglesmith, of
Hungry Downs, was two Herefords up on
me, it wasn’t long before I was playing the
shot with three Dxxrhams. Now I believe the
district contains daii-y farms and actually
grows wheat! Ichabod, Iclmbod. how i% the
glory departed!
* * * *
“Wee Waa”: Golf is sinking its tentacles
deeper and deeper into the great open spaces
of the N.S.W. outback. Some time ago
thei-e existed a North-Western Distinct Golf
Association, which included Manilla, Wcrris
Creek, Tamworth and other centi-es, but it
went to sleep. Now it has been revived with
headquai-ters at Tamworth, and at a meeting
the other day officers were appointed, and it
was resolved to affiliate with the N.S.W. Golf
Council. An annual meeting is to be held
each year at Tamworth, and a cup has been
offered by T. Maunder, of the management
committee, for intei*-town competition.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: Following on a fatal accident
on the Melbourne-Sydney road some time
ago it was hoped that the dangei-ous craze
for motor road-i-acing records had been
qxxencbed. Indeed, the police authorities of
Victoria and N.S.W. intimated at the time
that they would permit no more of it. Yet
Beasley and Connagh have driven a Singer
Junior from Brisbane to Sydney—6sB miles
—in 15 hours 32 minutes, beating the mail
train by 8£ hours. No casualties to drivers
or pedestrians were reported.
■e sit # *
“Sprocket”: Duncan Gray’s victory in the
cycle-racing at Los Angeles was very popu-
lar among Australian cyclists. Most of the
good judges were confident he would gather
a scalp, especially as he has had plenty of
experience on board tracks. Gray deserves his
victory. He has had tempting offers to turn
professional, but, unlike some of his col-
leagues, has pi-eferred to stick to his Olympic
oath —in spite of the fact that, like many an-
other Australian athlete, he has been sorely
beset by General Depi-esh.
“Ball Race” : The road-cycliug champion-
ship of N.S.W., ridden over a coui-se of 100
kilometres on the outskirts of Sydney, saw
the flying Newcastle rider Edgar Jones
retain his title won last year. Jones’s time
was 2hr. Slmin. lOsec., and his average
22nx.p.h. For the first time the event was
open to all members, of the N.S.W. Cyclists’
Union, without the qualifying tests and
trials that have been the custom in the past.
Riders from all over the State competed.
Each rode alone, with four-minute inter-
vals.
Miscellaneous
“Splash": The win of the Australian
.swimmerette Claire Dennis in the Olympic
breast-stroke race is interesting to the
writer, who first learned such swimming as
he ever acquired from the aborigines of the
Barcoo River country in Western Queens-
land. My dad, an old naval man, tried hard
to teach mo the breast-stroke method —I
couldn’t pick it up at all. Then one day
when in the river with the gins and the abo.
youngsters who in those days were my con-
stant companions, one old lady who had
been watching my struggles said, “You do
all same me. Johnny.” She went off
with a double overarm, and to this day I
have never been able to swim effectively in
any other fashion. Yet many have claimed
the credit for devising what I am confident
is a pulclca Australian invention.
* * * *
“Amateur JTo.”: There is always one
thing to be said for the Olympiads, which
were revived with the idea that they would
promote the brotherhood of man—there
never fails to be a rough turn-up at; some
stage of the proceedings. I am going-
back to Stockholm, where an American com-
petitor was charged with “spiking” an Eng-
lish competitor. Up to time of writing there
have been two joyances of the kind at Los
Angeles. One was when the Finnish winner
of the 5000 metres deliberately blocked the
attempt of an American challenger to get
past him. The other was when the barrack-
ers for Brazil in a water-polo contest signi-
fied their disapproval of the referee by
tin-owing him into the swimming pool.
Everyone from Brazil was thereupon dis-
qualified.
* * *
“Bias”: On my way home I pass a
brewery—much against the will, of course —
and the other night I noticed that the
volume of smoke from the chimney had con-
siderably increased.. As I pondered on this, it
came to my mind that a Victorian bowling
team would shortly be in Sydney on its way
to Queensland, where, I understand, anti-
prohibitionists are also showing feverish
activity. The Cabbage Gardeners, apart
from a roll-up on a Sydney green, went
straight on to Brisbane, but those that are
loft of them will meet N.S.W. on August
•‘lO and 31 and September 1.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: How little they know of xAus-
tralia who only N.S.W. know! One Sydney
cricket scribe, glooming over the possibility
of his seat being jumped when the English
cricketers are playing, asks bitterly why
seats for cricket matches cannot be re-
served. He says that it’s done in
England. Queensland, always in the
lead of its sister-States with a new idea,
started a seat-reservation system for the
stands as soon as it got its first Test allo-
cation. That was some years ago, but it
must be remembered that Queensland’s big
grounds are at the disposal for the season
of the sporting organisation renting them.
Sydney Cricket Ground, in the hands of a
fossilised trust, presents a problem of an-
other kind.


A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
Tliis Letter called on the native bears in
their Pennant Hills home last Sunday, and
found small brother for the most part with
his rather plump stern in the fork of a
tree, meditatively nibbling bunches of gum-
tips which Providence, by the hand of man,
keeps constantly tied to the lopped branches
in which he lives. There were baby bears
with their mothers, the fur of all thick and
soft as silk, and without vermin of any kind.
The Victorian bear, age or climate perhaps
responsible for the darker grey in his luxuri-
ant coat, has the eye of an old buck; unlike
most of these animated teddies, he likes his
sup of grog. And the taste was formed in
this way. Shortly after his arrival he was
out of sorts, droopy and off his gum-leaves.
Investigation showed that his heart was out
of tone, so a little alcohol seemed indicated.
Koalas don’t drink (even water), and
it was quite a business to induce the Vic-
torian even to sip the water mixed with
spirits. But after the first taste all hesita-
tion vanished, and now he quite looks for
his water and brandy or water and wine.
There is one scourge the little furry things
still suffer from —conjunctivitis. If it gets
past a certain stage blindness is the almost
inevitable result. Quite a number were in
sick bay last Sunday, and probably the hap-
piest of them was one that was snuggled
in the arms of the girl attendant at the
gates; this mild-eyed creature loves human
companionship, and expects to be taken up
and petted at least once a day.
The lights of the Blaxlaiul Galleries
glinted pictorially on the Air Force blue
when the R.A.A.F. made merry. This was
quite a brass-hat affair, and lured the Gov-
ernor and the Mayoral Walders in addition to
the Navy, represented by Captain Feakes and
his slim wife, and the Army in the person
of Brig.-Gen. Heritage. The Charlie Ulm
couple were among the dancers and the
Hammonds, Bostocks, Follets and Wacketts
were other flying people in the crowded ball-
room. The Geoffrey Hugheses were among
the noted, she in silver lame patterned with
pink roses. A ballet from “Flying High”
helped to amuse, and gave the revellers a
chance to cool off.
At least one small boy who went to hear
Szigeti knew what a prince should look like.
The youngster, having heard his father and
mother say that the violinist’s accompanist
was a prince, never rested till he was taken
to one of the concerts. His mother and
father wondered at this display of blue-blood
worship in a dinkum little Australian, and
when the artists made their first appearance
watched their son to see his reactions to
royalty. He whispered once, half pointing,
“Is that the prince?” and being told “yes”
he subsided. To his elders lie mentioned the
prince no more ; but a few days later he was
heard telling his baby sister: “An’ the
prince came out, and he had all lace ruffles
at his neck and wrists, and diamonds sewn
all the way down his trousers!”
Up in St. Michael’s flats, above Hunter-
street, Ivy Ball and Mrs. Edward Stevens,
from Melbourne, are entertaining the musi-
cal. They are over for Raymond Lambert’s
recital on the 20th, which Miss Ball is man-
aging, and, of course, will be eager listeners
to his playing (to-night) with the State
Orchestra. Miss Ball is the clever woman
who has started afternoon chamber music
concerts and staged them in the lounge of
one of the well-known hotels in Melbourne.
Raymond Lambert will make the acquaint-
ance of musical Sydney in the Grieg A
Minor Concerto, and as he studied with
De Greef, said to be the finest living exponent
of this composer, the work should prove
more than usually interesting. Raymond is
on the staff of the University Conserva-
toriuin in Melbourne. He is a son of the
violinist Edouard Lambert, also attached
to the Conservatorium. The two have done
much to popularise, chamber music in the
southern capital.
* Sydney has yet another club. It is known
as Pharaoh’s, and its decorations are redo-
lent of Old Nile. These remind one of the
decorations at the Wentworth on Church
Hill which for a time turned the palm court
into a rendezvous with Tutankhamen, An-
tony and Cleopatra and such. The new
club takes up three floors of the old Govern-
ment Savings Bank building in Barrack-
street, and opened its doors for the first
time to aid the Adult Deaf and Dumb,
amongst whom unemployment is rearing its
staring head. The club is flooded with some-
thing approaching sunlight through greeu
and gold shades. There’s a verandah off the
ballroom, and a roof set apart for golf
and tennis. Margery H'icklin, the pretty
heroine of “Bitter Sweet,” came along with
Herbert Browne and Sidney Burchall to the
dance, and Philip Street’s iady, the Mayoral
Walders and Mrs. Harry Dransfield were
among the night’s important. Mrs. Roystone
Davey’s short ermine coat compelled a second
glance, and Molly Street with her shoulder
cape of berry-red chiffon spattered in dia-
mente was an attraction. Dot Brunton
came with husband Ben Dawson and flut-
tered sea-green chiffons.
James Parr, formerly H'igh Commissioner
for Maoriland in London, has been the
big game of the social huntress since his
arrival in this city. The Enzed Women’s
Association, among others, entertained him
at the Pickwick Club, and the Women of
Sydney group had him for their guest at
dinner on Monday night. The Maoriland
knight is related b.v marriage to Mrs. Wil-
liam Epp«* of Prince Alfred’s, and the
dinner was part of the jubilee celebrations
of that great hospital.
The P.E.N. Club will lose one of its best-
tailored ornaments when acting-Professor
Raymond Firth leaves his anthropological
lectures at Sydney Uni. for the School of
Economics at London University. Raymond
besides his good looks has brains; his book,
“Primitive Economics of the New Zealand
Maori,” won him his doctorate at the Lon-
don ’Varsity. His work on the Island of
Tikopea in the Solomon group ranked him
high in the scientific world. He is quite a
good dinner companion, and isn’t above dis-
cussing the contemporary novel or drama; in
fact, like most Maorilanders he is intensely
iterested in literature.
Worn with a stock or cravat the stiff little
sailor hat is going to be quite a success
this summer, though it won’t save a no§e
from peeling or a profile from becoming
like that of the girl in the rhyme, whose
Face was so freckled
She looked like the speckled
* Wild lilies.
Still, who cares for a freckle or two with
the make-up box so handy? Another ab-
surdity for our summer climate is the pre-
cious little Dresden shepherdess affair that
sits like a poached egg over the right eye, and
is all pretty with flowers under its elevated
left brim. ' Some of these Art Gallery hats,
are built up at the back with terraces of
lobelia, wallflower, forget-me-not or bows of
ribbon. Then there’s the bellboy or pillbox
bat, a bitter pill this for any woman who
can’t afford time and money to have the
daily facial dozen. You will wear on your
head this year the crop of a well-stocked
flower-farm, or of a flowering window-box,
according to the state of the bank balance.
Blue is starting such a favorite that there’s
likely to be a slump in it before the A.J.C.
spring meeting, and this Letter tips the
Breton sailor as the season’s stayer. But
many of the black hats with their dead white
flowers have a suggestion of the funeral
parlor. Lacquered horticulture or shiny cel-
luloid imitations of the flowers of the field
find a place on brim and crown ; there are
mesh crowns to match the mesh stocking, and
the pom-pom gives a reckless look to the
tight little round hats that seem inspired
by the French Navy. Monte Lupo is the
rakish name of a new straw; Lisere-lac and
the old-time pedal turn up as new, and some
of the dearest models are in the exotic balli-
buntal.
The little lady who is the wife of Queens-
land’s recently knighted Cameron, ex-
M.H'.R. (they lately passed through Sydney
on the wing overseas), belongs by heredity
to our old Harbor Town; for her mother
was a daughter of that notable Archibald
Mossman, a Yorkshireman, who gave his
name to Mosinan Bay in the whaling days of
last century. Archibald and a brother, George,
made a unique descent on these shores about
the year 1828, “arriving from the West
Indies in the brig Civilian, which they liad
chartered for the purpose,” and plunging
forthwith into shipping and other business.
The Nest, a pictorial eyrie perched on an
eyebrow of the cliff above Mosman Bay. and
long after the home of Prof, and Mrs. Bad-
ham, was built by Archibald Mossman.
Every policeman in this city is as pleased
over Claire Dennis’s success at the Olympic
Games as over another stripe. Claire, so
to speak, is a daughter of the regiment; her
father (dead only a short time ago) was
Sergeant Dennis, police prosecutor at the
Central Court, and the Force to a man had
chucked in its shilling to' help their dead
comrade’s little daughter get her chance.
Now Australia adds another swimming-
record to her list. So keen was the Central
Police Court over the outcome of Claire’s
race that MacDougal, S.M., interrupted the
proceedings to announce that Claire was
now the breast-stroke champion of the world.
The word had been brought to him post-
haste by a court messenger. The most Aus-
tralian thing about the contest was that
Claire had left Australia with a septic foot,
and kept it • quiet for fear it might sound
like “squealing” if she didn’t win.
To her many other activities, Mrs. A. V.
Roberts (she’s a feminist, and a banner-
bearer in all
movements for
the rights of
woman) has
added the
cause of the
Industrial
Blind. Her
efforts for the
next few weeks
will be concen-
trated on the
Flower Festi-
val, which in
October will
see Sydney as
gay as the
towns on the
Riviera dur-
ing their
battles of
flowers. Prizes
to gladden the
hearts of all
gardeners,
from the window-box cultivator upwards, are
being offered; and a Rose Queen competi-
tion is one of the pretty ideas of the scheme.
The Bulletin photographer made the
picture.
Arthur Bayldon, now one of Australia’s
recognised poets, was better known at one
time as one of her great swimmers, and you
couldn’t doubt it when you read in his
newly-collected poems his “Leander to
Hero”:—•
... .tossing to and fro
’Mid toppling towers of waves that melt
And hissing turn like snow.
When bluer blues around me spread
Than ever bloomed on high....
In the book, in addition to the writer’s
grandly-echoing sonnets, are such tender
beauties as “Jesus” and “In a Bower.” In
short, beauty is in this book from cover,
to cover.
Mrs. J. A. Lyons, who with her Prime
Minister was in Sydney last week, is one
of the most striking arguments against the
birth-control movement. Her hair is like
silk, her complexion leaves that of the aver-
age schoolgirl a bad second, she has the
sparkling eye of health—and she is the
mother of 11 children. Dr. Watson Munro,
that groat champmn of maternal welfare,
purred like a complacent lion when he found
her his neighbor at the Feminist Club’s
lunch, held in the little lady’s honor. When
M’ss Preston Stanley introduced the doctor
as “the noblest Roman of them all” he
may have blenched ft little at the royal mag-
nificence of her contralto tones, but there
was no doubt of Mrs. Lyons’s cheeks when
various speakers had heaped on her their
compliments, some of them spiced with com-
parisons to heroines of mythology —they
blushed carnation pink above her presenta-
tion posy of mauve stocks. In the afternoon
more eulogies were burned in the censer
swung before Mrs. Lyons by the United
Associations. The members of this are
Feminists, too, only with a different
address and name from the original group.
Mrs. Albert Littlejohn and Mrs. Kenneth
Street led this hallelujah chorus amid the
teapots at David Jones’s.
Hubert Murray, Lieutenant-Governor of
Papua, and Douglas Mawson, who in between
explorations is
Professor of
Geology at
Adelaide, will
be two of the
highlights of
the science
meetings which
will rage an
Sydney for a
week, start-
ing t o-d ay.
Hubert will be
president, and
as he has
brought his
lady down
from the North
with hi m
there’ll be some
bright plumage
displayed at
the opening
reception. Mrs.
Watson Munro
(whose photograph from Falk decorates this
paragraph) is skipper of the hospitality
committee, and under her practised hand the
party at the Women’s Club, another of the
week’s gaieties, is booked for success.
Another notable from the North is anthro-
pologist Chinnery, who has the sagas of the
hundred tribes or so of New Guinea by heart.
Dr. Georgina Sweet, from Melbourne. Dr.
Gertrude Halley, from Adelaide, Dr. Doris
Black and Dr. Ruth Griffiths, from Brisbane,
and Dr. and Mrs. Weatherburn, from Perth,
as well as a couple of scientists from Maori-
land, are among the learned who have re-
ported their coming to Dr. Arthur Walkom,
hon. sec. of the 21st meeting of the Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Association for the
Advancement of Science. The vice-regals
are showing approval by spreading a garden
party, and the State Government will rise to
a harbor excursion.
From Queensland’s quill:—
There was a record attendance at the Royal Show
and a remarkable revival in the horse line. For
the first time fishes were on view, including goldfish,
Siamese fighting fish, Chinese paradise fish and
Queensland angel fish. On the public holiday our
State Exes, and daughter Marjorie arrived early,
followed by the Governor-General and his lady. The
G.-G., after presenting the Prince of Wales Challenge
Cup to the Harrisville troop of Light Horse, who
acted as official escort, officially opened the exhi-
bition.
At the United Service Ball in the City Hall the
gubernatorial parties were received by Colonel F.
A. Hughes and Mrs. Hughes, Captain R. A. and Mrs.
Willis, Commander J. C. and Mrs. McFarlane and
Brigadier-General and Mrs. E. M. Ralph. Lady
Isaacs was in platinum grey satin; Lady Wilson, in
apricot satin; Marjorie Wilson chose pastel-pink
crepe suede ; Dinah Hordern wore steel grey satin ;
Peggy Pixley (Sydney) wore salmon pink; Mrs.
Hughes was in ivory moussellaine; and Mrs. Hope
Michod wore black lace over a sheath with touches
of blue. There were 25 debs.
At Ascot Mrs. Cadell Garrick, Pat O’Shea and
J. Clark gave tea parties. The White lady (Mel-
bourne) was in Burgundy crepe de Chine with a
wide-brimmed hat; Mrs. Geoffrey Archbutt (Hong
Kong) chose leaf-brown tailor-made and brown hat;
Una Bell (Coochin) displayed two shades of brown;
Una Hort-Brown (Sydney) was in black covered by
a navy coat; Mrs. Ken Dalziel (Dalby) chose floral
marocain and brown coat; Mrs. D’Arcy Winten wore
navy and fitch furs; navy was favored by Mrs.
Ronald Ross Munro; Arctic fox and navy was worn
by Mrs. E. J. Watt (Sydney).
John Jennings, of Toowong, took to wife Marjorie
Ryan, daughter of the Commissioner of Police, in
St. Ignatius, Toowong. The bride, who was given
away by her father, was in embossed ivory satin and
veil of Limerick lace. Hazel Ryan ’maided in
daffodil satin. Pink sweet-peas decked Rowe’s Cafe
for the fea*sting; Sydney and Kosciusko will see the
’moon.
The Governor and his daughter went to the
Anzac Ball in Lennon’s, where Greta Fisher, in
white satin beauts, and Doris Wood, in ivory satin,
were the debs. The C.J. and his lady and the
Mayor and Mrs. Greene were among those present.
Charles Haly married Beresford Corrie in St. John’s
Cathedral. The bride was given away by her
uncle, Alex. Corrie; she wore ivory satin and a
pearl and turquoise pendant, a family heirloom.
Bessie Ogg and Minnie Palmer ’maided in sunburst
satin. Pink carnations decked Caldew for the feast-
ing.
After a few hours’ illness, Mrs. A. C. Halford,
wife of Dr. Halford, died at her home, Wickham-
terrace. She was born in County Cork 64 years ago,
and as Nora Fitzgerald joined the nursing staff of
the Brisbane Hospital. In 1899 she. married Dr.
Halford. Besides being a popular hostess she
organised the first buffet at Rosemount and was a
good friend to the soldiers.
To celebrate the occasion of the opening of their
new cafe, the directors of Finney, Isles and Co.
gave a luncheon. There were about 200 guests, who,
after the usual toasts, were shown all over the
up-to-date enterprise
Mrs. Loxton, wife of Mr. Loxton, manager and
director of Burns, Philp in Queensland, and daughter
Alice were guests at a recent garden party at
Buckingham Palace. Fred Loxton, a student of
Pembroke College, Cambridge, has been selected as
a member of the University Conference to sit in
Geneva and will attend the League of Nations
Conference at the same time.
A few lines from Tassy:—
At the Mayoral Ball for the Unemployed Relief
Fund, over 1500 dancers footed it on the floor of
the City Hall to the music of Marcus Trappe’s
orchestra. The nine debs, under the wing of Mrs.
F. X. de Bavay looked like a flock of white pigeons
in their coming-out frocks. The Lieut.-Gov. was
laid up, so his lady, looking extremely well in a
charming heliotrope turnout, had to do the official
duties on her own. The v.-r. party included Hobart’s
chief notable,,,. ecclesiastical, naval, military and
civic.
Rev. E. G. Muschamp tied the matrimonial knot
for Gwen, only daughter of the Harry Hoggs, Inver-
may, and William Headlam Baylis, St. Leonards.
The bride’s dress was wine-colored marocain, made
with long coat and worn with a hat of matching
velour.
The Midland Hunt Club brought the season’s
activities to an end with a run at Epping. The
Lewis Burburys entertained the club at morning tea
at Clyne Vale. Lewis Burbury and Kathleen Mercer
took the drag, and Geo. Gibson was acting master.
The Speck has a special interest in the recent
London success of Frank Allcnby, lately appearing
in J. .B. Priestley’s play “Dangerous Corners.”
Writing to an aunt in Hobart lie tells of an offer
he has had to play for six weeks in New York,
but London is more profitable and attractive at the
moment.
Benno Moiseiwitsch delighted his admirers at his
two recitals at the City Hall. The first night’s
audience was more demonstrative than any on local
record.
A committee of youngsters ran a cheery little
danpe at Lindfield to raise the wind for Hutchins’
School football team. The lounge, drawing-room,
ballroom and balcony were decorated with streamers
in brown and gold tones, japonica and mauve iris.
The head and Mrs. J. R. 0. Harris were guests of
honor.
Burnie’s young singing bird, Irene Bennett, gave
a well-attended concert in the Burnie Town Hall
to raise funds for her training expenses in Melbourne.
Adelaide gaieties:—■
Mr. and Mrs. F. Apperley motored over from the
western district of Victoria to attend the golf carnival
in Adelaide. The most popular location for the
inter-State golfers is Henley Beach, as it is just
between Seaton and Kooyonga.
The Myer annual ball was held at the Palais
Royal in aid of the Children’s Hospital. Over 800
attended. Mr. and Mrs. Norman Myer brought a
party with them that included the Premier and Mrs.
Hill, the Chaytor lady (who has been running the
firm’s mannequin parade for the past week), the
Fred Porters, Stanley Stumps and Fred Cornells.
Bowman’s ballet appeared in a military ensemble.
The Police Ball was held in the Freemasons’ Hall,
when Brig.-General Leane and Mrs, Leane enter-
tained the Mayor and Lady Mayoress and the mili-
tary and naval commandants. There are some very
fine dancers in the force.
The Mayoress gave an at-home for a number of
her friends in her reception-room at the Town Hall,
fragrant with purple hyacinths and almond blossom.
Mis. Glover was gowned in black chenille embossed
georgette with a pink and blue real' floral shoulder
posy and a wide-brimmed black balibuntal straw-
hat. Mrs. Keith Pavy, her daughter, wore a black
marocain frock with a touch of beige and a black
velour hat. It was an informal and very cheery
party.
The annual plain and fancy dress ball of the
South Australian Society of Arts took place at the
Society’s Gallery, North-terrace. Several of the
ladies appeared in masculine attire. Particularly
humorous was the “Burlington Bertie,” garbed in a
hefty man’s dress suit in which she was almost
submerged. President Howie and his wife received
the guests.
The wedding of' the week was that of the Allan
McFarlanes’ youngest daughter Betty to Henry J.
Youngman, son of Mrs. and the late C. S. Young-
man, of Casterton (Vic.). The McFarlane family
came up from Wellington Lodge, Lake Alexandrina.
The wedding was celebrated at Christ Church, North
Adelaide, by Archdeacon Bussell and afterwards
there was a cocktail party at the South Australian
Hotel, only the bridal party being seated. Quite
an innovation, and a very cheery one. The bride
looked charming in ivory satin, and her bridesmaid,
Vera Thornlev, of Victoria, wore a frock of silver
lace with a wreath of blue velvet roses.
Westralia’s whack:—
Field-Marshal Sir William Birdwood arrived on
the Themistocles for a month in this country. When
the steamer berthed late on a cold night, Mrs. Colin
Craig was among the first up the gangway to welcome
her parents and sister Judith. Sir William, who is
a very sick man, has cancelled all engagements and
intends to spend his visit getting acquainted with
his grandchildren in the invigorating air of Boraming
in the Williams district.
Bankers put an extra padlock on their vaults
and made a night of it under G.ll.’s frosty dome
for the Bankers’ Ball. Some 700 attended, which
meant a handsome cheque for the Chandler Boys’
Settlement scheme. An exhibition of the tango and
the fox-trot and the gyrations of a male ballet were
interludes among the dances. Mrs. Strang, wearing
pale green satin, came along with her husband;
Mrs. Morgan was in black; Mrs. Wreford’s black
laces displayed a clash of green; Mrs. Love kept
the draught from her shoulders with a red velvet
cape; blonde Ethel Diamond, snowy camellias pinned
to her inky velvet corsage, accompanied her father:
Kathleen Lonergan danced in strawberry ninon:
Roma Mansfield girdled her black organdie with a
jade cord ; Mrs. Sycl Atkinson was wrapped in honey-
tinted laces and Mrs. Bond Barker chose a royal-
blue ensemble; Mrs. O’Hara’s laces blushed under a
pinky jacket; Peggy Nunn was in flame satin and
sister Tess contrasted a Nile-green frock with a
scarlet coat.
Old Kobeelyans, most of whom are still in the
bloom of youth, for the Katanning seminary has not
yet many years of tradition behind it, staged then-
first dance in the Karrakatta Club. Headmistress’s
duties prevented Mrs. Whittaker from being present
but a powder-blue-clad Miss Lovegrave smiled upon
the flutter. Among the dancers were Old Girls’
secretary Lesley Vincent in apple-green romaine
and equally tall sister Helen in apricot; Bonnie
Spencer, in cornflower laces; Pauline Woodroffe, in
red; Nancy Hughes, in the frou-frou of emerald
organdie; Madeline Durack, in pink as to gown and
velvet coatee; Dulcie Armstrong, in lilac; Joan
Church and Jean Stewart, in red; Lucy Stone, in
caped pink chiffons; and Gwen Williams, in black
laces.
Mrs. Theo Pelloe is home again after two months’
visit to the J. J. Maguire couple, of Turee on the
Ashburton. Marjorie Swain has also been getting
acquainted with our mulga and saltbush on the same
station. After three years as P.L.C.’s sportsmistress
she sails back to the Cold Land on the Balranald.
Miss Merab Harris, M.A., represented this State
at the International Federation of University Women
held recently in Edinburgh. Miss Harris left for
London last November with a Hackett studentship.
For the subject of her thesis, which won her a
Master’s degree, she chose the life and work of the
late C. Y. O’Connor.
M.L.C. Old Girls danced with a will' in the
Y.A.L. Hall. Iceland poppies glowed upon the
supper-tables and the orchestra provided syncopation
in a jungle of palms and wax plant. The college
principal, Miss Walton, received five fluffy debs.
Association president May Camm wore buttercup
velvet; Dora Camm was in parchment velvet; Mrs.
Norton, who kept a finger on the secretarial joy-
stick, chose flowered taffetas and a scarlet coatee
collared and cuffed with bunny ; Marjorie Luyer was
striking in her nutmeg laces; Pearl Martin was
befrilled with cowslip ninon; Milly Ockerby’s frost-
white taffetas swished under a gold coat, the angel
sleeves of which displayed an emerald lining; Mrs.
Gordon Wilsmore came in black and Margaret Giles
in mignonette-green laces.


MUWMMeeS
■
-
■
/
Am
adiU
■IP ,11
• usssm
;■'■■'<■■.
' Model "201” Mantel,
3 Valves, including rectifier
:>:, £14/14/-
III
£r
m
i!>/ V\
l
iiv
nn
Si „
L
Model "201” Console,
3 Valves, including rectifier
£15/15/-
Model "201” is not suit*
able for long distance
reception. Models
for country nse from
£26/10/- (Electric) and
£3l/10/- (Battery)
V7"OU can now buy a "Golden Voiced”
Healing radio for £l4/14/-
Healing quality radio has never been
priced so low before. The great demand
for Healing sets has brought about
economies in production, which make
these reductions possible.
The model "201” incorporates the same
high quality materials, the same ad-
vanced design, the same craftsmanship,
as are embodied in the higher priced
models. And it possesses the same
"Golden Voiced” purity of tone that
makes all Healing radio DIFFERENT
from ordinary radio.
FEATURES
Specially matched full powered Magnavox
Dynamic Speaker. Latest type American
valves, including screen grid and super
power penthode amplifier.
Special hum-proof electrolytic conden-
sers.
Exclusive cabinet design. Beautiful
veneering and hand-rubbed finish.
Coils and Condensers specially designed
for selectivity.
Positive dial drive (no strings to slip or
jamb).
Power switch on front of cabinet.
TELEPHONE YOUR DEALER FOR A
COMPARATIVE DEMONSTRATION
OF HEALING GOLDEN VOICED RADIO
A. G. HEALING, LTD.,
MANUFACTURERS AND MASTER DISTRIBUTORS
(Wholesale Only)
MELBOURNE: 167-173 Franklin Street, C.l.
ADELAIDE: Cr. Pirie and Pulteney Streets.
SYDNEY: 164-170 Goulburn Street.
Queensland Dealers Write to —
R. J. ROSE, C/o T. W. MOSS & CO.,
121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
The Chatterer smiled when her fair com-
panion carried a pair of goloshes in her bag
to Caulfield, but she knew about it all —she
knew, she knew! The last race was run in
a deluge and premature darkness. The rain
poured off the brims of new spring straw
boaters and Breton sailors, and drenched
pretty frocks, for many optimists had left
their umbrellas at home. The needle-point
heels of the newest and lightest of footwear
dug into the moist lawns in a mad skelter to
the motor-parking paddocks. Spring fashions
weren’t on parade, except for the hats, and
there was an extraordinarily good display of
furs. Some bright color combinations were
achieved with scarves and largish bags—cro-
cheted or knitted. A girl who wore a hat and
frock of blue-bag hue added scarf and bag of
canary-yellow and brown. Another smart
damsel, all in brown, sported a frilled white
muslin cravat. The headwear ran to all
shapes, hut was in small sizes. A miss from
bonnic Scotland wore a Glengarry at a rakish
angle, her attire being tweed skirt and short
navy coat. Another girl had a well-fitting
scarlet coat with a Stuart tartan skirt —but
topped her Gaelic attire with a red felt hat.
Susie Tolhurst wore a tailored suit of tweed
figured in two shades of blue. The Luxton
lady sported brown, and so did Mrs. F. Kit-
chen and Mrs. Percy Blackbourn. Mrs. Ben
Chaffey’s black sealskin coat with silver fox
collar "was topped by a wine-colored felt hat.
Mrs. W. Mitchell wore one of the latest caped
frocks, reseda green with a touch of silver
on the bodice, and her hat was of the same
hue. Mrs. Richard Linton’s sapphire-blue
velvet gown was worn with beautiful furs,
and her hat was black velour. Mrs. Fleming
Dunstan was a study in beige tints in georg-
ette and wool de Chine, with felt millinery.
Sandra Shackell was well turned out in
black. Mrs. Lauehlan Mackinnon, in her
suit, featured one of the corduroy materials
in brown, with a hat of matching shade. Mrs.
Clive Leonard, Mr. and Mrs. Janies Pu.rves,
the J. C. Westhovens, Colonel E. Harrison
and his wife, and Mrs, Twomey, of the West-
ern District, were among the patrons.
This is Elsie Bennet, secretary of the
senior department of the Y.W.C.A., who is
packing her
trunks for a
voyage to
Engl a n d.
where she will
stud y social
science for six
mon t h s at
the Y.W.C.A.
Training Col-
lege at Bir-
mingham. Mi«s
Bennet, who
started her
career as a
dress - designer
in a Flinders-
street house,
has been on
the permanent
staff of the
Y.W.C.A. for
about 10 years.
She directs
girls over IS
in matters of education and sport, and
arranges all inter-house sports programmes.
The picture comes from the Gainsborough
studios.
For the Lud Mayor’s ball the Town Hall
was transmogrified with bush scenery. Plan-
tations of tree ferns, springing up among
tall gum-trees, filled the gallery, the fagade
of which was covered with bracken. In the
body of the hall was similar native foliage.
While the v.-r. dais and bandstand were en-
closed with flowering wattle-trees. On the
stage was the replica of a Marysville gully,
built up with fallen logs and loam. Here
more ferns and gums flourished, and a water-
fall splashed pleasantly as it tumbled over
opalescent rocks. A black curtain gave a
glimpse of blue sky and wattle gold. In
this sylvan glade strolled a swaggie who had
the agreeable job of smoking many pipes.
Guests were headed by Lieut.-Gover-
nor Irvine, who was accorded a guard of
honor and welcomed by Gengoult Smith in
full official regalia. The Irvine lady came
in violet-blue georgette, flowing into a modi-
fied train; some diamonds sparkled in her
hair. Premier Argyle was there with iiis
lady, she in .black velvet, others in the v.-r.
circle being Major and Mrs. Wilkinson,
Frank Clarke’s better half in ivory satin, and
knight Alexander Peacock’s wife, who chose
a gown 0 f sapphire-blue velvet. The ladies
each received a posy. There were two debu-
rn ntes —Commander and Mrs. Cresswell’s
daughter Peggy, who wore filmy white lace,
and Greta, daughter of Wing-Commander
and Mrs. Eric Harrison, a dainty lass in
a frilled frock of white ninon, the corsage
of which was bordered with real pink rose-
buds.
Mrs. Russell Clarke waved a plumed fan
that mingled pink and mauve and chimed
nicely with her very pale pink .satin gown.
Mrs. H. H. Smith carried black ostrich
leathers against a dress of brown and gold
lace over gold lame. One of the most beau-
tiful gowns was worn by Mrs. J. 11. Moss.
It was of the palest-green satin, the whole
robe tucked finely in diagonal lines and
topped with a cape bordered with mink.
Medical-knight James Barrett’s wife sported
a floral patterned grosgrain gown in brown
shades; the, Charnel lady wore peach-pink
satin. Mrs. Hugh Hamilton’s lobelia-blue
lace gown was fashioned with a coatee. Mr.
and Mrs. J. W. Pennington were visitors
from the country. Mrs. Norman Brookes
was smart in parchment satin. Lt.-Colonel
White's wife danced in dark-brown law.
Mrs. Louis Smith, the Lud Mayor’s sister-
in-law, had some diamente brightening her
black velvet gown, and carried a shaded
blue feather fan. Others in the throng or
over 2000 were Rear-Admiral Hyde, Genera,
and Mrs. Bruche, Air-Commodore Williams
and his wife, Mrs. George Langridge, m
black lace, Mrs. R. G. Casey, Mrs. George
Chirnside, Major and Mrs. Harrison, she
in black chiffon with large spots of white,
the Harold Luxtons and Major and Mrs.
George Landale.
At the mid-week gee-gees ran at Moonee
Valley under the auspices of the Findon
Harriers’ Club. The weather was pleasant,
the crowd large and the going good. Findon
H. C. members were present in full force,
and kindred clubs had fair representation.
The Findon M.F.H., J. L. Byrne, was accom-
panied by Mrs. Byrne, who wore an ensemble
of lacquer-red with touches of black and
white, and a black sailor hat. Hon. sec. R.
M. Cuthbertson’s wife was all in black with
a topcoat that sported a ’possum-fur collar.
Mrs. Leslie Macdonald’s dark-fawn suit was
topped by a toque-like hat in brown. The
iCliauvel lady and her daughter Elyne. the
Luxton lady, Mrs. A. V. Kewney and Mrs.
W. H. Magennis, Mrs. Embling and her
daughter Lorna were in the throng.
Theatrical folk figured in Buckley and
Nunn’s mannequin parade. Michael and
Hester Martin-llarvey, of the Thorndike co.,
performed classic and modern dances, and
went through a game of tennis to music.
Jessica Harcourt showed off the most strik-
ing frocks and costumes, her figure fitting
the one-piece robe of the moment most effec-
tively. Tailored suits were shown with
shorter coats than of late, with a fastening
of one button. In summery frocks of light
silks and muslins, the changes in sleeves
were noteworthy. From the dainty shoulder
puff they developed into heaps of fulness at
the elbow. In some instances the top por-
tion was quite plain and the balloon effect
was from elbow to wrist. Detachable capes
were again featured, a new idea being to
fasten them with a sort of cross-over sash. An
adorable green organdie frock had the skirt
well flared, and was embroidered in darker
green with an outline of white. The accom-
panying hat of drooping sailor mode had
a gaily-striped ribbon. Another light frock
was pale-blue georgette fashioned with deep
tucks about the skirt and sporting an abbre-
viated coat of white Irish crotchet. A cream
wool lace robe was finished with a mere
tippet of ivory-toned angel’s skin, suggest-
ing in its proportions a baby’s pelisse. An
evening gown that made appeal was of cigar-
brown watered silk having a deep flounce.
A large bow finished the low-cut corsage at
the back.
John, only son of the R. L. Freemans, of
Elwood, and Ida, younger daughter of Mrs.
R. J. Hall, of Hawthorn, plighted their troth
at Christ Church, South Yarra. The bridal
robe of parchment-tinted satin had a girdle
of rhinestones. The veil was of Limerick
lace of mellow hue, and the bride carried a
posy of Duchess of York pansies and wall-
flowers. Four maidens attended in bouffant
frocks of amber grosgrain silk and tulle,
with Dutch bonnets of the same materials.
A little trainbearer sported a pale lilac
frock. There were rejoicings afterwards at
No. 9.
At All Saints’, Geelong, James, only son
of Senator and Mrs. Guthrie, of Geelong,
took to wife May, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Greville Carr, of Macalister, Queensland.
The bride, who was handed over by her
uncle Alexander Brown, had a veil of fine
old Limerick lace flowing over a white
chiffon frock. The ’groom’s sister Mary was
attendant ’maid.
The Adelaide Steamship Co. gave a dance
aboard the Manunda to help Queen Victoria
Hospital. Lud Mayor Smith. Mayor and
Mayoress Packer, of Caulfield, Mrs. Norman
Brookes, president of the Q.V.H., the Felix
Lloyds and Lieut.-Colonel and Mrs. White
were among the dancers. On the committee
were Merlyn Richards, who danced in ruby-
colored satin; Dorothy Packer, whose frock
was black satin; Eileen Davin, in a bouffant
frock of cosmos-pink taffeta; Olive Williams,
in black velvet;
and Rita Yor-
ston, in gen-
tian blue lace.
Looking from
Out this Dick-
inson - Mon-
teath picture
is the girl
who was
Esme Frank-
enberg, now
Mrs. C. .T.
Officer Brown.
Popular in so-
ciety, she has
always been
ready to take
a hand in or-
ganising a hop
or entertain-
ment for char-
ity. She plays
a very good
game of golf.
From India comes news of the engage-
ment of Tempo Margaret Falkiner to J. W.
Channing Williams, of the North Stafford-
shire regiment, only son of Mr. and Mrs. W.
A. Williams, of the Malt House, Newbury,
England. The young lady is the youngest
daughter of the late Norman Falkiner and
of Mrs. Falkiner, of Domain-road, South
Yarra. Mrs. Falkiner and Tempo are at
present, in India.
Associates had a day to themselves at
Yarra Yarra golf links, when their presi-
dent, Mrs. Clarence Marriott, boiled the billy
and was hostess at four-o’clock tea. She
wore smart sports wear of fawn and brown
tweed with a nigger-brown felt hat. Four-
somes and putting competitions filled in a
day blessed by perfect weather. Susie Tol-
lmrst was among the players.
Aileen Dent’s show of paintings was
launched by Dame Sybil Thorndike, who came
with husband Lewis Casson and their son
Christopher. A portrait of Mr. Casson as
the Bishop of Beauvais in “Saint Joan*’
figured among the exhibits. Dame Sybil,
who was in ensemble of pistachio-green cloth
with collar and cuffs of black fur and black
felt hat, received a bouquet of golden-brown
pansies from Miss Dent.


CANADIAN PACIFIC
Giant ships of the Atlantic—sailing
the short and sheltered route to
England. Duchess Liners set a new
standard in luxury, comfort and service
at new moderate rates.
Distinctive cabin appointments with
famous Canadian Pacific cuisine make
these the most popular ships for
Australia to England travellers.
Write or call for literature and details.
CANADIAN PACIFIC
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Fines' S ups ou
the Atlantic
World’s Greatest Travel System
TRAINS - STEAMERS - HOTELS
w
-3
m
m
oilA~
Whv
NOT
rtf
Holi day
QPECIAL concessions have brought Pacific
Island tours within reach of all, so why not
spend your next holiday amid ideal surroundings?
Excursions to SUVA—HONOLULU—RAROTONGA—PAPEETE via N.Z.
For full particulars apply
UNION S. S. CO., Ltd.
247 George Street,
Sydney.
and Union Line j
59 William Street,
Melbourne.
Mr >
'&xAco?l
Co tsdjh^,
c>.
or)**
$"(ro
c cauums
D.tJ M°CALLUM iZB £ DIN BUR OH.
ESTABLISHED 1807
this line old Scots Whisky
has 120 years' reputation for
outstanding quality. It is skil-
fully blended for mellowness
and flavour and no better
hisky can be produced.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF MeCALLUM:
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane ; Gibbs, Bright and
Co., Adelaide; Lionel Samson and Son, Fremantle; Macfarlane Bros, and Co.,
Hobart; Thomas Brown and Son, Ltd., Townsville and Rockhampton; Northern
Australian Breweries, Ltd., Cairns.
Lakiprempuan, or The Half-Man.
MERVYN SKIPPER TELLS THE STORY AS HE HEARD IT FROM A
WISE MAN IN BORNEO.
ONCE upon a time, in the village of
Tambahilik, in the Tempassuk district
of North Borneo, a woman gave birth
to a man-child; but one-half of it was want-
ing. It had one arm, one leg, half a body
and half a. head. He was given the name
of Laki, and he grew up; but his tongue
and his deeds were evil. If a woman was
spinning he would get a chopping-knife and
slash her loom and cloth; and the women
of the village used to say to him, “You are
like a beast, and, besides, you are only half a
man.” Then he would be ashamed and think
whence he could get his other half. For
he felt in his bones that there must be an-
other half or there was no sense in the
world. So at last he set out in search of it.
All the people in the country knew him,
and when he came to a village they would
say, “Where are you going?” And he would
answer, “I am going in search of my other
half.” Whereat they would laugh at him.
But he went on and paddled up the rivers
and penetrated the jungle and clambered up
the foothills and climbed to the top of Mount
Kinabalu and down the other side; and still
he failed to find his other half. But at last
he came to a susendatan, a place where the
people go down to bathe, and there he found
Kinharingan, who lives in the Sky, fishing
for sticklebacks.
“What are you looking for?” asked Kin-
haringan.
"‘For my other half,” replied Laki.
“There is half a girl in that cave on the
hillside yonder,” said Kinharingan. “She
has one arm, one leg, half a body and half
a head, and her name is Prempuan, and she
is very unhappy.
“So am I,” said Laki. “Is she a right
half or a left half?”
“She is a left half,” said Kinharingan.
“And I am a right, half,” cried Laki joy-
fully. “I will go into the cave and ask her
to join herself to me, and then we will be
one, and we will both be very happy.”
“I wouldn’t if I were you,” said Kinharin-
gan.
“Why not?” asked Laki.
Kinharingan took a stickleback off his
hook, broke its neck and tossed it into his
basket.
“You are a cold, considering, intellectual
sort of half-man,” said Kinharingan. “She
is a passionate, ardent, emotional, exacting
half of a female. You are all mind, she is
a creature of the senses. You are an incor-
rigible idealist, she is a complete materialist.
When you cl’mbed to the top of Kinabalu
yesterday you said to yourself, ‘I shall stay
here all night, and I shall be careful not. to
sleep, because I know there will be a glori-
ous sunrise.’ If she had been there with
you she would have said, ‘Don’t be a fool,
you will catch your death of cold. And, any-
how, how do you know that the sunrise will
be worth seeing, or even that there will be a
sunrise?’ She isn’t an optimist, like you
are.”
“I don’t know what you mean, said Lain,
“but I do know that I am tired of hopping
about on one leg!”
“It is better to hop about on one leg,
said Kinharingan, “than to sit down for the
rest of your life with two." ((
“But we won’t sit down,” cried Laki. “I
shall teach her t 0 dance and run after the
swallows and go down into the meadows
with me to count the fireflies and wander
through the jungle to see the birds courting
and the monkeys swinging from tree to tree;
and I shall teach her to tell the tapir’s track
from the elephant’s, and why the moss grows
on pne side of a tree and not the other, and
why the seeds of one plant have wings and
others have barbs, and how the hornbill
makes a nest for his mate in the hollow of
a tree, and how he walls her in with mud
and conies each day to feed her.”
“And on the second day.” said Kinharin-
gan, “she will yawn and say she is tired,
and what are hornbills good for, anyway?”
“Then I will take her to the seaside and
show her how the turtle lays her eggs, and
we will come day by day and watch and
wait till the eggs hatch out so that we
can see how half the young turtles turn into
iguanas and go into the jungle 'and half
turn into crocodiles and enter the ocean.”
“She won’t thank you,” said Kinharingan.
“If she had wanted to know all these things
she would not have stayed in her cave all
these years waiting for you to come to her.
She would have been hopping about like you
are.”
“Then we will sit at home, and I will
teach her how to make the beauty of the
world immortal,” said Laki. “I will show
her how to carve the images of the birds and
animals we have seen the previous day on
pieces of buffalo bone. I will find pigments
and mix them for her, and together we will
paint the glory of the world, the green of
the sunlit grass and the silver lightning of
the rapids and the sleek skin of the sambhur
deer seen through the thin stalks of the
bamboos. I will show her my pictures, and
she will show me hers, and we will laugh
with delight and praise each other.”
“And if yours are better than hers,” said
Kinharingan, “she will burn your rice and
sulk for a week unless you stroke her hand
and say her pictures are the best that were
ever painted; or she will say that painting
is silly because it doesn’t get you anywhere.”
“Then I will teach her how to dream,”
said Laki excitedly. “I will teach her the
only songs of our people, about the Lang-
suyur, who haunts graveyards and preys on
stillborn babies; about the Singkalaki. who
gives children pleasant dreams and places
soft grass under tlieir knees when they
stumble. And we will make new songs, our
own songs, songs of the future. And I will
teach her how to sing them.”
“And she will say she hasn’t got time
because the rice is cooking,” said Kinharin-
gan. “And she will say, ‘Nice time for
dreaming—where is the rice for to-morrow?' "
“Then I will teach her how to be brave
arid daring and warlike,” cried Laki. “I
will take, her into the jungle, and we will
track the wild pig and the rhinoceros, and
lay traps for the leopard. I will teach her
how to ambush strangers and take their
heads, for the glory of our people. I will
teach her how to throw poisoned darts from
the blowpipe, and creep up at night to the
longhouses of our enemies and fire them.”
“But she will not want to appear brave,”
said Kinliaringan. “She will want to appear
timid. She will pretend that, she is fright-
ened at a mouse and terrified of the dark,
and she will fill her mind with blind, un-
reasoning terror, because that will make you
feel courageous, and then you will think
that her timidity is her most womanly attrac-
tion. And when she hears the cry of a.
night bird she will say, ‘That is an evil
omen,’ and she will cross her fingers; and
she will invent evil spirits and placate them
with offerings; and that will make you think
she has the key t 0 eternal mysteries that
are unknown to your philosophy.”
“Then,” cried Laki, drawing himself up
to his full height, which was not very con-
siderable, “I will teach her how to love. She
shall feel the tender emotions of awakening
affection, the mad tlirobbings of desire, the
hlack nightmares of jealousy, the emptiness
of a heart bereft and desolate, and at last
the exultation that springs from love, un-
questioning and unquestioned. She shall
feel with me that we are the equal of the
gods, and that our bodies enclose all the
wonder of the world, the flowers, the grass,
the birds, the singing rivers; all the red
splendor of the day and the white calm of
the night; and our hearts will swell to burst-
ing like mountains. And I will say I want
a fighting scarf, and she shall reach me down
a rainbow, and she will say she wants gems
for her bridal cloth, and I will reach up
to the stars and net a handful, and we will
walk over the world with our eyes shining
like spearheads and our lips saying nothing
and laughing for no reason whatever, except
that our blood is one blood and our heart
one heart and our souls one soul. And the
trees will seem to be hung with bells and
gongs which ring as we pass them.”
“The love of the senses decays as surely
as last year’s banana-plant,” remarked Kiu-
haringan.
“Our love will not,” cried Laki, “for it
will be the first of its kind, and there has
never been any like it. It will not decay,
but will change into ideal love. Ideal love
seeks the truly beautiful, which is identical
with goodness, and lovers unite to propagate
in each other beautiful ideas and beautiful
actions, and then the true lover passes from
the individual. He sees beautiful ideas in
a single person, blit he moves onward to
contemplation and love of the ideas them-
selves, until at length he reaches the per-
fect state in which the surpassingly lovely
idea of beauty is revealed to him in its abso-
lute existence and forms for ever a joy
eternal!”
“But perhaps she will not be able to
accompany you,” said Kinharingan. “And
if she will not go with you, how can you
make the journey? She does not want love
any more than she wants truth, except for
a purpose.”
“But I will enlighten her.” said Laki. “I
will educate her. I will .show her herself
as she really is, one of God’s creatures who
has not yet realised her possibilities.”
“But she does not want to know herself
as she is,” replied Kinharingan. “She only
wants to hear that she is beautiful, because
sitting in her cave she knows that her beauty
will draw you, as the moon draws the tides,
and that it will master you, and that, for
all your strength, you will succumb to her
weakness. And her cunning and her subtlety
and her charm and delicate sympathy will
be superior to all your wit and your wi.dora
and your knowledge. She will want you to
be strong, but only insofar as your strength
serves to protect her. She will want you
to be bold, but only insofar as your bold-
ness frightens her enemies. She will like
you to seek the truth, but only insofar as
it does not penetrate her mystery; for her
mystery is the cloak with which she hides
—nothing! That is why she remains sitting
in her cave now, though she can hear your
voice and expects your coming.”
But Laki had not been listening.
“How may I become one with this most
desirable person?” he asked Kinharingan.
Kinharingan carefully baited his hook and
slowly lowered it into the water.
“You must wrestle together, and then you
will become one,” he said at last. “But if
you become one nothing can make you two
again except a major operation. I warn
you.”
Without another word Laki went to the
mouth of the cave; but as he was trying
to penetrate its darkness he was seized
with terror, and turning hastily away
he fled as fast as he could travel
until he came to the top of Mount Kina-
balu. There he stayed for five days and
nights, muttering and talking to himself
and driving his nails into his palm until the
blood covered the rocks on which he lay;
and he stared continually at the clouds and
the sky and at the sunsets. And he grew
as thin as the new moon through not sleep-
ing or eating. Then one evening he camp
down and went ranidly into the cave and
there was a fong silence.
When the half-man and the half-woman
came out of the cave they were one person,
•who ran down to the river, and, without a
glance at Kinharingan, plunged in and swam
across and ran laughing into the jungle.
Kinharingan, who lives in the Sky, took
a stickleback off his hook, broke its neck
and tossed it into his basket.


faWoloridtA 'Wide
SIMON IZ
(PRONOUNCE SI-MON-IZE)
r fa Modern Wai|
to Keep Cars Lookintf
New and Beautif u 1
HUNDREDS of thousands of motorists who really know from
experience, say: "The sooner a car is Simonized the better,
for Simoniz protects the finish, makes it last longer and keeps colors
from fading."’ And, even after years of driving in all kinds of
weather, a Simonized car still looks new and beautiful and naturally
you get more'for it when "'traded in.’*
Anyone can Simoniz a car
.. it’s fun. Simoniz Kleenex
quickly and easily removes
all stains, discolorations and
blemishek It tliorotsglily
cleans and restores the lustre
and beauty of the finish* And
Simoniz provides that beau-
tiful dust proof protection
that keeps cars looking new
and beautiful*
•••» .
m
E
P
-v !
m
Shnonizing Is no experiment—it's the only successful
method of ear renovation vvhleh has stood (lie test of
time and held undisputed leadership in its field for
18 years. Photograph shows portion of the Sinioniz
Service Station in -Melbourne, where over 5000 ears have
been Siirionissed for private owners and the used-car
trade in the past two years. This Simoniz Service is
unique in Australia and throughout the world. No
other ear-polishing preparation is sponsored by its
makers in this convincing and practical manner.
SIMONIZ & KLEENER
MUST BE USED TOGETHER
FOR PERFECT SIMONIZING,
YOU SAVE MONEY BUYING SIMONIZ
AND KLEENER TOGETHER,
Get a can of each to-day from any Motor
Accessory Store or Service Station.
ŵ
ẁ
JXTKK'STATK IHSTKIIU TORS:
PERTH.
Atkins (TV.A.), Ltd.,
Hobart.
C. C. Boug Pty.,
Ltd.
ADELAIDE.
Cornell, Ltd.
Harris. Scarfe, Ltd.
J. N. Taylor, Ltd.
ẃ
SYDNEY.
Bennett & Wood. Ltd.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.
Ilislop Lloyd. Ltd.
West not f Hassell. Lt d.
ouej?s
ft?*** 4 *s!*
AM EL.
CW ATCHIN«
«HgmES
m
Spa**
i
a?
EB
i
VA
•SM
uc°
fcAj^svse^
FO
»uce
p>>L I
ae&urv and PRorßeriS;
rn ALA muicuEr riQ
:f.
FINISHES
a
i.m.j.iii.iiilllfta^S
Scf”'
>N
-Ms|
m
eHc
i?Rs
DUCO
free:
SAMPLES
FOR TRIAL ON VOIJK CAR
BKLSBANE.
Butler Bros, Ltd.
. E.S.C.A , Ltd.
Martin Wilson, Ltd.
NO MATTER HOW DULL AND FADED YOUR CAR MAY BE,
SIMONIZING WILL RESTORE ITS ORIGINAL COLOR AND LUSTRE
Australian Factory Distributors,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
Operating Simoniz Service Station, 188-196 Peel Street, North Melbourne.
Motorite Equipments Pty., Ltd., Peel St., Nth. Melb.,
Knt'loseil timl one penny stamp, postage for FS££
SAMPLES ol' Slmoniz and Kleener.
NAME
ADDRESS
“Bulletin,” Aug. 17
Thousands Subscribe to Australia's Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CQ., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from •
for which 1 enclose
NAME .....
address
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/*
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/*; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/*
ẃ
e <><
V A”
\V
. •' &
cAa<A


LOOK FOR THE WHOLE BULLDOG ON THE LABEL
S'- , ' ' , is s
.
~ ' Y' ' '
's':
mm
m
mu
m
Isis
KSS
. _J
mm
las
MSIIi
as
mmm
Ifli
wm;
ms
mmm
§ls
'
Kiss
iliiiilillft
Jss
■llll*ll
"k. \
pV.i
111
Wh
wn
\'.. :a
in*®
«§
*
*V*: * )$" i
i *'+4s w&mwk r i
iiisn
mmm
mmm
iiiii
mmmm
m
.
mmm
iiiiiPl
*ll
iiiii!
mmm
mm
mmmm
4k
X
mmmm
j
h
A
m
§
lIIII*
y?
m
<
MARK A
*5 ouk
RAOc
iiiiilii
*
mmmm
cmp*>v
L» M |T£D
c
&
H
O
a BOTTLED BY ~ ’
ROBERT PORTER &CO LTD
Wj*j- LON DON,ENGLAND
The "Bull Do£
mm
m
m
l««
„ Bottlin g '
Gat 1 !
Y)»
■ ~
II
m m
m-
sii
THE FAMOUS
BOTTLING THAT
■t- " ; . ... , : ' ,
DOES CREDIT
TO A FAMOUS
BREW
