

*Y APPOINTMENT TO
IMt .PRINCE OF WAt.ES
k
>
F
i
t. ■>
SOLD
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA
(k. m
mrnrc
fvFAIfPE COLOGNE
=££
*
m.
IC47II* I
V
E&ude
mi
o
Factory Representative for Australia: JULIUS BLAU, 14 York Street, Sydney,
and 324-332 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
The Bulletin
fdf
Vol. 53.—N0. 2752.
Wednesday, November 9, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


r J'HE 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street. Sydney.
'Stance Jwmato
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON !
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell 'Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Roolclet. explaining how to Write ‘ for Profit no
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. J j as
My Name
.V- Address
S.B. 132
Mffrm
Attractive Hair
An Essential of Beauty-
Keep your scalp in good condition
by shampooing regularly with
Culieura Soap. If there is
any dandruff or irritation of the
scalp, precede by an application of
Cntienra Ointment. This
treatment will keep your hair
healthy and lustrous.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co..
Sydney, N. S. W.
Special Announcement
to National Advertisers
Cbc mercury
Tasmania’s National Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
1 9 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, SO Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: "Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
Siexi&j,, s&dupe,
$■ S&te&n. ftote4, fouzeg A-%
-„ &ne v&rurtvp P r eC%Ldl', '
TheAUSTRALASIAN
PN SALE ALL STATES D
“THE AGE ”
Established, 185 4.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
The service “The Age” renders is
essentially practical.
Being a publication of the highest
prestige, it enjoys close and continu-
ous contact with adult minds through-
out Victoria, thus assisting the
conduct of business by linking up
with the everyday domestic needs of
its readers.
“THE AGE”
circulates in over 1 15,000 homes
daily, and publishes 1,000,000 adver-
tisements annually.
KEEP THIS IN MIND
when planning future allocations.
Rates on application to the leading service
agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
The National Sporting
Weekly,
Che HZ. Referee
is the official organ of most of
the principal sports bodies and
associations throughout New
Zealand, covering Racing, Trot-
ting, Cycling, Tennis, Cricket,
Wrestling, Boxing, Radio, Foot-
ball, Hunting, Whippets, Dogs,
Breeding, Golf, Athletics, etc.
Excellent advertising coverage is
offered in any section of the paper,
which is on sale all over New Zealand.
The most popular and authentic
Sporting paper in New Zealand.
Inquire for Rates from all leading
Advertising Agencies, or to —
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
/ ' .
THE PATRIOT
I DIRECT MEDIUM 19 WOMEM
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. O. HIN'CHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
,
That the Soundest State
//
s7 !; si*S>i Ar T
mm
V, r? •
IS
QUEENSLAND
EVERYONE AGREES
THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
is renowned for its vigorous
influence, its freedom from
vulgarity and stupid sensa-
tionalism, and its high per-
centage of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
carries more classified adver-
tisements than anv other
Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers
must agree that as an eco-
nomic force in the Queens-
land market “The Telegraph"
leads the way.
TELEG DADH
/ BRKBANE/ LEADING HOME NEWSPAPER -
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Bane and Antidote
For nearly a century London lias been
edified every year or so by a visit, from
some colored monarch who is under obliga-
tions to the Empire, and from whom ade-
quate returns are expected. The adroitness
with which these wandering savages are
handled is the envy of other white races
Fresh from the mud huts which are their
palaces at home, they are deeply impresses
by the Royal suite at Claridge’s, The cus-
tomary procession to the Mansion House
with detachments of Life Guards trotting
before and behind the royal car, and lines of
police holding back the curious lieges, pro-
vide a pageant which no jungle has seen
or could imagine, As the black king paces
in his white cotton robes, patent-leather
shoes and bowler hat about the Bucking-
ham Palace lawns at the garden party given
in his honor he feels the equal in all re-
spects of his brother the white King. The
reputable newspapers write of him with
respect, and he is not shown those which are
facetious at the expense of his odd habits
and odder morals. In West End clubs and
drawing-rooms and in Fleet-street offices
ribald laughter is heard as stories of his
latest comicalities circulate; but the People
(meaning the millions who believe what
they read in the dailies) take him seriously
as a great and enlightened ruler. Some-
times he is a disappointment; the fortune
spent entertaining him has to be written
off as a loss in the national books. The
thousands which went in impressing the
ill-fated Amanullah suffered this fate. But
as a rule there are dividends in the shape
of concessions and the like. The books
reviewed below reflect interestingly and in-
structively the two main bodies of English
opinion regarding such potentates; the
solemn departmental view and the derisive
view of those who regard, officials as pom-
pous asses; the Empire-builders’ view and
the view of those who consider Empire-
builders absurd, if not calamitous.
In the Raw State
The Passing of the Black Kings, by Hugh
Marshall Hore (Philip Allan; 15s.)', is almost
entirely concerned with Africans of the nine-
teenth century. The author is the perfect
official, serious, right-thinking, immutably
satisfied that whatever is British is best
for the subject races. He describes a visit
of some top-hatted and frock-coated chiefs
to Windsor Castle where they enjoy a “long
hoped-for audience with Queen Victoria.
They present her with leopard and jacka
skins and receive in return Bibles ant
shawls for their wives. He concludes com-
placently :
The privilege of meeting face to face one
who had all their lives been regarded as an
almost supernatural being, and of beholding
with their own eyes the glories of her palace
and surroundings made a profound impres-
sion on these men who had so- recently
emerged from black barbarism, and went a
long way to restore them to a proper sense
of their relative unimportance.
Mr, Hore, as Civil Commissioner of Bula-
wayo, knew Ivhama of the Bamangwafo,
Lobengula and Lewanika (“ruler of the
vast Barotse Kingdom”), and he explains
very earnestly how British civilisation
benefited them. These dauntless Warriors
certainly suffered to an extent in pic-
turesqueness; the frontispiece-photograph
shows Khama as a tall knock-kneed nigger
in a reach-me-down suit and blucher boots
standing limply beside his monstrous wife,
Ma-Bessie, who looks ridiculous in a fash-
ionable satin dress of the ’eighties. But
whatever was lost’ in the panache attaching
to feathered head-dresses and mighty spears,
skilfully and ruthlessly wielded, is alleged
1o have been gained in respectability, good
manners, kindness to animals and the higher
British virtues generally. There was the case
of the mighty Lewanika, who had dreamt for
innumerable moons of gazing with his own
eyes on the beauties of “the Great White
Queen.”
The Boer War frustrated his wishes, and
before the way was clear he learnt, to his
bitter disappointment, that the Queen was
dead.
The Chartered Company arranged for him
to attend the Coronation of King Edward
instead. He enjoyed himself, though forced
lo forego the company of his 16 wives, and
created an excellent impression.
Few who saw him in his. rich uniform
could have imagined that less than 20 years
before he had been a naked savage fleeing
for his life among the swamps of the Oka-
vango, or presiding over strange rites and
gory executions in the barbaric surround-
ings of a remote kraal.
His only gaffe was
at Court, when
“he somewhat
startled his late
Majesty by falling
on his knees and
rubbing the ground
with his forehead, loudly ejaculating ‘Yo-
Zho’ several times.”
The Completed Article
Evelyn Waugh in Black Mischief (Chap-
man and Hall; 7s. 6d.) describes the career
of a twentieth-century African monarch
with the advantages of an English public
school and University education, Seth of
Azania aspires to modernise his Empire.
Basil Seal arrives from London and is made
Minister of Modernisation. Basil is a
familiar Waugh hero'—a member of Lord
Monomark’s set, a gigolo, a drunk and a
thief. Before leaving for Azania he visits
his mother (‘‘Four days later she discovered
the loss of her emerald bracelet”), and in
due course he reaches the seaport of Azania
and prepares to go ashore (“His cabin com-
panion looked at his watch, scowled and
turned his face to the wall; later he missed
his shaving soap, bedroom slippers and the
fine topee he had bought at Port Said.”)
Among the dozens of strange folk whose
lives are interwoven with those of Seth
and Basil are Mr. Youkoumian, a swindling
Eurasian; General Connolly, head of the
army, and his native wife, Black Bitch; the
idiotic Sir Samson Courtney, of the British
Legation, and his wife, who prattle inanely
through revolutions and other horrors as ii
they were in an English county; M. Ballon,
of the French Legation, haunted by fears
of perfidious Albion and her machinations
as personified in Sir Samson; and a number
of Azanian peers such as the Earl of
Ngumo—“a towering negro; on his head a
lion’s-mane busby; on his shoulder a shape-
less fur mantle; a red satin shirt; brass
bangles and a necklace of lion’s teeth; he
had small bloodshot eyes and a towsle of
black wool over his cheeks and chin.”
Many of the latest political improvements
are introduced, including a One-year Plan,
birth control and an inflated currency, but
the Empire isn’t ready for them. There is
another revolution, in which Seth perishes
and Basil unwittingly helps to eat Sir
Samson’s daughter Prudence. A little earlier
they had been making love and he had
said, “I’d like to eat you.” “So you shall,
my sweet,” had been her affectionate re-
sponse. “Anything you like.” Shortly after
his grim repast Basil goes back to London,
to the gibberings of his moron friends and
to Angela Lyne, his former protectress, but
he avoids Lady Seal (“I gather my mama
is sore with me about something”).
Mr. Waugh is an authentic satirist, but
there is something hideous about his mirth.
He has a Swift-like loathing of humanity,
and some of his jokes (the cannibal one, for
example) seem as pathological as any of
Swift’s. Black Mischief, like “Vile Bodies,”
is a strange blend—a bitter cry of rage and
despair yet as funny as anything by the
amiable Wodehouse.
RED PAGE.
Australian Books
[Mr. P. R. Stephenson, M.A., is the
Rhodes Scholar who, halting graduated
with honors in philosophy and economics
at Oxford, turned to the study of book-
publishing as a way in which he could
specially serve his homeland. He has
now returned as the manager of a book-
publishing co. which has been estab-
lished at the Bulletin Offices in Sydney
—a co. which, though having an exist-
ence separate from The Bulletin, will
have all the support and assistance this
paper can give it. 1
Prevailing conditions have given the Aus-
tralian book-manufacturing industry an
opportunity to become established. While
the English novel sells here at anything
from Bs. to Bs. lid. ( plus postage), it is not
surprising that importing booksellers are'
cautious in obtaining supplies. The Aus-
tralian publishers’ opportunity is to provide
new fiction at six shillings, and new reading
matter of all kinds in volume form at prices
even lower.
The book industry is in many respects
unique. Economic tenets which may be
valid in the soap trade, for example, need
modification when applied to the book-
trade. It is as though a soapmaker had
to produce a new brand each week and at
the same time keep all his old brands on
sale. The publisher must carry a wider
range of “lines” than almost any other
manufacturer, So a publishing-house needs
considerable capital to become established,
and can only show a profit in the long run
on a considerable turnover. It may be for
this reason that book-publishing in Australia
has hitherto been conducted mainly by
booksellers as an adjunct to their busi*
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—An Assurance of Accuracy.
■‘THE SENIOR STORE'
Anthony Horderns'
Best Quality FENCING WIRE
PROTECT YOUR PROPERTY
7/y/// better ftncii
n
\
sciujtch"\
lOWA
..1 '
•IM'
Galvanised Fencing Wire
6 Gauge. Price £l5/19/2 per ton; 16/6 per cwt.
8 Gauge. Price £l5/19/2 per ton; 16/6 per cwt.
10 Gauge Price £l6/10/- per ton; 17/- per cwt.
Galvanised Wire Netting
SOLD BY THE ROLL ONLY. Each Roll Contains 50 Yards
O . A!t 1 * Cl IV4a<4iiim Styt
Quality
Mesh ....
Width. 24in.
Width, 3 6in.
Width, 48in.
Width, 60in.
Width, 72in.
Strong. Medium. Strong. Medium.
1 7 2in. x 1 7 3in. x 1 6 3in. x 1 4 4in. x 1 6
U/4|
Jin
12/6
16/10
22/6
45/3 28/2
54/4 33/9
15/6
20/7j
16/3
21/11
29/71
9/2
12/4J
16/6
Strong.
4in. x 1 4
13/6
18/2
24/3
Width, 1L in. 54/4- «5«5/y ’ on 1
Lengths of a dozen yards, or longer lengths, less than a Roll, at lower
prices than quoted for a single yard.
Galvanised Barbed Wire
12 Gauge “lowa.” Price £23/15/- per ton; 24/6 per cwt.
14 Gauge “lowa.” Price £25/5/- per ton; 26/- per cwt.
1 2\ Gauge "Scrutch.” Price £25/15/- per ton; 26/6 per cwt.
14 Gauge “Scrutch.” Price £27/7/6 per ton; 28/- per cwt.
Genuine Resistoid Roofing
1 -ply, in rolls, 72ft. x 3ft. Price, per roll 35/6
2- in rolls, 72ft. x 3ft. Price, per roll 43/-
3- in rolls, 72ft. x 3ft. Price, per roll 51/6
Resistoid is manufactured for and procurable only at Anthony Hordern
and Sons, and is supplied complete with sufficient cement and clout tacks
for laying each roll.
GARDENTOOLS
bearing our guarantee
/ /
ISi^waNWPgat.;
Garden Spades
Brades’ Best Solid Steel Spades, with 13in. strap, I^ alf ' bri | h . t -
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, each, No. 1, 8/3; No. 2, 8/6
Ward and Payne’s Strapped Blades, all patent solid steel.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each, No. 2 .......... f
Brades’ Samson Socket Spades, spring temper cast steel,
half-bright. Price, each, No. 1 •••••'V ’ * Y,‘ *o " * lft /
Brades’ Elastic-steel All-bright Steel Spades. No. L . . IU/-
BRADES’ Digging Forks
Brades* Digging Forks. Price, ea., 4-prong, 7/6; 5-p., 8/6
Brades’ Trenching Forks. Price, each IW/-
Drew’s Digging Forks. Price, each, 4-prong
Gilpin’s
Mattocks
Gilpin’s Strongly-made Mattocks.
Anthony Horderns’ Price . . 5/-
Brades’ Cast Steel Pick Mattocks.
Anthony Horderns’ Price . . 5/-
BARROW S
Galvanised Iron Barrows. Cap-
acity, 3 cubic feet. pip e
frame. Price, each .... 29/6
Ladies’. Not galvanised.
Price, each 21/6
Wood Garden Barrows, movable
sides. Price, each 35/6
Field Barrows, movable sides.
Price, each 54/-
Manure Barrows, movable sides.
Price, each 57/6
(Agricultural—Fourth Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
Anthony Horderns’ “Selfreezer”
now priced £33/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ “Selfreezer,” the self-freezing refrigerator
advertised in “The Bulletin” on October 26 at £36/10/-, has now
been reduced in price to £33/10/-.
Best Patent Galvanised
WIRE NETTING
Each Roll contains 50 yards
(. Builders’ Ironmongery-Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free Delivery City
and Suburbs only.)
Egg-storing
CABINET
Egg Cabinet, for storing
eggs. Every well-equipped
poultry plant should have
one of these cabinets. The
saving from the loss in
broken eggs and the loss
of time in handling will
soon equal the purchase
price. Eggs for table use
(not fertilised) have been
kept from three to four
months in a cool place by
using these cabinets.
To hold eggs—
-100 200 300 400
Prices, each—
-30- 35/- 50/- 70/-
(flee and Poultry Goods—
Fourth Floor. Free Delivery
City and Suburbs only.)
II
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


ONE SURE WAY
to greatest tyre value!
There’s one way to be sure of
getting the best tyres. . . Buy
Goodyear Tyres.
Don’t take our word for it.
Take the public’s. The public
knows. It USES tyres—all kinds,
it buys, out of its experience
with all tyres, more Goodyear
tyres than any other tyre. And
today, when you buy Goodyear
Tyres, you get better tyres,
greater values than
ever before. You
get lO%extra thick-
ness in the famous
All-Weather Tread
. extra wear,
• • •
BUILT WITH
a a
CORD
The powerful Goodyear carcass Is made of Supertwisi
Cord, which stretches, without breaking, up to 61%
more than cords used in other tyres. Ask your
Goodyear dealer to prove this for you on the Cord-
Testing Machine.
extra safety, extra puncture pro-
tection. You get the superior
vitality of Supertwist Cord in
the carcass . . . testing up to
61% greater elasticity than ord-
inary cord. You get mileage
averaging 30% greater . . . the
most for the money ever built
into tyres.
No wonder then, that “more
people ride on Goodyear Tyres
than on any other
tyre!” See your
nearest Goodyear
Dealer today, for
the greatest tyre
value in history.
i
I:
m
PJ
I
A
ft*®?®?®
o
MBl
Hlillß
/
a
o
U
MORE PEOPLE RIDE ON GOODYEAR TYRES THAA ON ANY OTHER TYRE
Cl .-13*38


BOORS
IN POPULAR DEMAND
Norman Lindsay’s Pen Drawings, many of which are
How to Keep Them, by Chatterton, 2/9; Service
Compression Ignition Engines for Road Vehicles, 4/6;
5/4; House Painting and Decorating, fully illustrated
out of print, 5/4; Canaries and
Projection Equipment, 20/6;
Book of Australian Bungalows,
,2/9; Ticket Writing and Sign
Painting, fully illustrated, 2/0; Invoicing
Made Easy, of Tons, Cwts., Qrs. and Lbs.,
by Cordingly, 1/6; How to Become Quick
at Figures, Simple and Easy Rules,
1/4; Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes,
3/3; Wise Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes,
4/10; Enduring Passion, by Marie Stopes,
7/10; Contraception—Birth Control, Its
Theory, History and Practice, by Marie
Carmichael Stopes. 22/4; Radiant Mother-
hood. bv Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the
Young, by Marie Stopes, 4/10; The Happy
Lover, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11;
Eugenics and Birth Control, by J. Rutgers,
M. 1)., 15/6; Pitfalls of Marriage, by W. M.
THREE GOOD NOVELS
THE ETERNAL CHOICE,
By Joseph Hocking, 5/- posted.
THE DEVIL’S HIGHWAY,
By Harold Bell Wright, 8/4 posted.
THE VALLEY OF TWISTED
TRAILS,
A Good Wild West Novel,
By W. C. Tuttle, 7/10 posted.
Galliclian. 6/3; Knowledge a Young Wife Should Have, by Phillip,
Sex, by L. D. AVeatherbead—a vital book, 5/4; These Beautiful Women—Prints of
Pantings from Paris Salon, 3/8; Contract Bridge, by Ely Culbertson, 8/6, Hou
to Become an Effective Public Speaker, 2/2; Mayes’ Australian Builders Price Book
15/6; Foulsbam’s Letter Writer, 3/4; Official Buies of Card Barnes ( Hoyle Bp to
Date”) 2/8- The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2; AVood Turning Made Easy, 2/9, Aust. Book
of Ready-made Speeches and Toasts. 3/-; Double-bed Dialogues, 1/2; Modern Lacquer
Finishing by F. A. Bose, 3/9; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes, 28/6, Napoleon s Book
of Fate, 3/4; Cheiro Guide to the Hand. 4/1; Bulletin Book ot Humorous Verse
(Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Prospecting for Gold (Austialian), by lon Idness, o/o,
CHAMBERS’S TWENTIETH CENTURY
DICTIONARY
The Book that Solves Cross-Word Problems.
Thoroughly Revised Edition, with Supplement,
containing hundreds of Words, Terms and Phrases
of Recent Coinage and Currency.
“Supersedes All Other Cheap Dictionaries.”—“British Weekly.’
A Miracle of Scholarship and Cheapness.
PRICE, 12/6 (Posted 9d. Extra).
Nnwltv Evenings (all kinds of games), 2/9; How to Repair and Restring Tennis
Raennets 3/ The Modern Letter Writer, 2/9; Parenthood— a Manual of Birth
Control l bv Fielding, 4/-; Love and Marriage, by Winifred Scott Hall, 13/-; Practical
Cartooning for Pi*fit, by Will Farrow, 6/6; Freshwater Aquaria, by Bateman,
Caitoomng toi ± ioui, uy 10/9r Mules and Hybrids, by House, 2/8;
“OUR NOBLE SELVES”
By the Author of
“Rafferty., King of Australia.”
“A study in General Invective,” surveys
the whole field of AUSTRALIAN
POLITICS, extenuating nothing, but
setting nothing down in malice. This
book has received striking newspaper
reviews. THE MELBOURNE “ARGUS”
describes it as a “powerful philippic.”
The “BULLETIN” critic, while protesting
that he “does not agree with half of it,”
acknowledges that he “enjoyed it all.
The “SUNDAY SUN” reprinted a full
column of extracts; the “TELEGRAPH”
a half column. Price, 1/5 posted.
Logan’s Pigeon Racer’s Handbook, 3/10;
Staining and Polishing—Practical Guide,
1/4; Sex Knowledge, with special chapter
on Birth Control, by No rah March, 1/11;
Practical Ticket and Showcard Writing, by
May, 1/2; Boat Building Simplified, by H.
Ashcroft, 5/2; Knowledge a Young Man
Should Have, by Dr. Philip, 4/6; Know-
ledge a Young Woman Should Have, by
Dr. Philip, 4/6; Sexual Science, by Dr.
Philip, 4/6; Knowledge a Young Husband
Should Have, by Dr. Philip, 4/6; The Boat
Book— Everything of Interest to the
Amateur Boatman, by Sam Brown. 31/6;
Carpentry for the Amateur, by Dodgson.
1/4: Drawing for Pleasure and Profit, by
Cliffe. 1/4; Trade Secrets—Recipes and
Money-making Formulas, 1/4.
Write jor any booh you may require.
N.S..W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
ness, and not as a business in itself. The
publisher-specialist on a considerable scale
will be something new in this country.
The venture is worth making. Australians
and New Zealanders are the greatest buyers
of books {per capita ) in the world. These
Antipodes have been a goldmine to English
publishers for over half a century. Fre-
quently the Australian and New Zealand
sales of a novel have far exceeded English
sales. The Australian publisher will be
able to keep going if his sales per volume
published average 1000 copies in each of the
six States, not counting New Zealand and
the islands of the Pacific Ocean.
Experts believe it can be done, and that
the time to do it is now. The chief obstacle
appears to be a postulated prejudice in the
minds of the Australian readers against
reading “home-grown” literature. Romance
(and reality), it has been supposed, is only
Romance (and reality) on the Riviera or
in Spain or Texas or Chelsea. This, how-
ever, may be merely a convention. If
wombats are too ludicrous and stringybark
trees too familiar to be wonderful, Aus-
tralian authors have only themselves to
blame for allowing such a tradition to be
set. The Englishman’s view of Australia
has been too powerfully expressed, too
easily accessible, and too abjectly imitated.
Ever since Barron Field’s famous slander: —
Kangaroo, kangaroo,
Thou spirit of Australia
That redeems from utter failure... .
the Australian writer has apologised for
this land, either by quizzing it sardonically,
or by sentimental overpraise, or by the
wrong lyrical emphasis which Field’s stanza
typifies. The worst vice is a diffident self-
consciousness in broaching the Australian
theme. “We are only a young country, we
are eager., to learn, we hope you will
approve”
The apologetic Australian author has con-
ceded at once the imperial Englishman’s
view of our “colonial” deficiency in culture
and whatnot. He has been encouraged in
this by the Australian reader’s expressed
preference for Mayfair and Limehouse
themes. Authors and readers alike have
paid a reverence to- the Old Country which
can only be explained as a nostalgia of the
exile; the nostalgia which transplants King’s
Cross and Hyde Park to Sydney: a phe-
nomenon which is appropriate to unaccli-
matised migrants, but ought to be expunged
in. their grandsons. * '
There is no need to apologise for this
country. Let it merely be taken for
granted, without the rawness of diffident
self-consciousness. Love, hate, fear, greed,
heroism, villainy—all the human ingredi-
ents of a story—are as real in Pott’s Point
and Collingwood as in Belgravia and Step-
ney. Let the Australian scene occur natu-
rally and the Story will stand or fall on
its merits as a story. Readers of books
require entertainment value. The only
way to overcome Australian prejudice
against the Australian theme is for the
author not to bother unduly about it, to
concentrate on entertaining the person who
will buy his book. The Australian theme
will thus emerge without effort, as a taken-
for-granted background to the story which
the reader has the right to expect when he
parts with his six hard-earned shillings.
These remarks apply to fiction. In non-
fiction categories the Australian publisher
will strongly ‘encourage the Australian
theme as such. The brief history of this
continent is crowded with incidents and
characters which will one day astonish the
world, when the epic is adequately told.
The sophisticated White Man’s rape of this
virgin land is a sustained feat of heroism
and fortitude no less than of greed and
macabre cruelty. As “Young” Australia
we have scarcely yet realised that we have
a history. Looking forward excitedly to a
future of illimitable promise, we have been
like runners in a sprint race who must not
pause for a backward glance.
The growth of national consciousness will
require an awareness of the achieved Aus-
tralian past no less than of the muddled
present and the problematic future. For-
ward the historians and legend-makers!
“Young Australia” has become adult.
Book-reading, which evokes book-publish-
ing, is only a natural satisfaction of a civil-
ised need which the white man has brought
with him to these faraway Antipodes. If
our writers will give us our literature with-
out “literariness,” express the Australian
character and landscape spontaneously, de-
scribe and create Australia as a written
theme, the world will respectfully greet a
newcomer among nations, and not until
then. When Hollywood extravaganzas had
brought universal discredit upon the United
States, the powerful modern school of
American novelists not only redressed the
balance in a decade, but compelled respect
for America wherever books are read. If
our writers can remove the stigma of
“colonial” from the inhabitants of this
Commonwealth, they will be doing more for
Australia than statesmen have ever accom-
plished.
All idealism comes at some point to the
test of the practical. Unless Australian
books can be made to pay both authors and
publisher for their efforts there will be no
Australian output of literature worth the
mention. The first and final test of a book
is that, sooner or later, it sells, it pays for
itself, it makes a profit. The publisher is
merely a factotum, a go-between, an eco-
nomic functionary in the service of author
and reader. Book-manufacturing, like any
other business enterprise, depends on the
demand for the commodity. If the Aus-
tralian people show any signs of demanding
Australian-made books, the demand will
now be met.
P.R.S.
Dulcie Deamer
In Messalina, the third of the Jacaranda
Tree books of Australian verse, the reader
will find 76 pages of typical Dulcie Deamer
color and rhyme. Three-quarters of the
book is the expression of such noted and
such diverse characters as Messalina, Helen,
Cleopatra, Salome, Magdalene, Artemis,
Atalanta, the Madonna and Clytemnestra.
Here is an extract from “Cleopatra”:—
Loud are the booths of wine and song,
The hurrying feet go round and round,
The war-gong and the temple-gong
Utter alike a dazing sound;
Love like a hound,
Bays here, bays there; scents blood, seeks meat;
Tears with keen joy the supple throat;
With hot tongue kisses hands and feet;
In offal rolls a sleek groomed coat.
Lines to the Madonna:—
Carpenter’s wife, and a Carpenter’s mother,
Bare and brown footed, the dust-tracks you trod,
As though you could name the world’s king for your
brother,
As though humble seraphs walked one side or other —
Your pitcher a chalice of God.
You who have looked upon final disaster,
Feeling a child’s gibbet-nails in your heart —
Though your heaven-calm house is of alabaster,
Heaven your womanhood cannot o’ermaster —
Our tears in your dark eyes start.
These two will serve to show how varied
are the mind and workmanship of the
writer. Her world is vivid, exotic and color-
ful. It is something of the world that Swin-
burne knew; a world blazing with the robes
of dead queens, padded through with the
velvet paws of leopards. There are the
gleam of marble, the fires of peacocks’
plumes and the throb of purple twilights
in this slim book.
National Song Competition
Competitors for the prizes offered for
the words only of a National Song have
only a few days more to go —entries close
on Wednesday, November 16, at The
Bulletin Office, Sydney. The song is to be
suitable for use in schools and elsewhere;
prizes of £25 and £lO and five of £1 are
offered. The work of judging will be begun
immediately after the entries close: the
judges will be Professor Brereton; Mr. Ross
Thomas, Director of Education, N. S.
Wales; and Dr. Arundel Orchard, Director
of the State Conservatorium of Music,
Sydney.
A Satchel of Books
Ward Lock and Co. arc famous for their
children’s books, and Mary Grant
Road to Adventure and Isabel M. Peacocke s
The Cruise of the Crazy. Jane are well above
their average. “Road to Adventure” is
about an Australian boy who, joining a cir-
cus, has entrancing adventures and makes
good as a performer. The other tells with
a good deal of quiet humor how some Eng-
lish' children travelled the world in the
neighborhood of their homes in a flat-
bottomed river-boat propelled by a second-
hand engine. Both books &re attractively
illustrated.
Philip Inman, author of The Golden
Cup (Bles 2s. 6d.), is the House Governor
of Charing Cross Hospital. This hospital,
which is in a street off the west end of
the Strand, doesn’t attract so much atten-
tion as the famous ones which stand out so
prominently on the south side of the
Thames, but it does as much for Londoners,
and particularly for the poor, as any of
them. Mr. Inman’s book is a collection
of sketches of incidents which might have
occurred in the life of any great city hos-
pital. It isn’t all sad. though much of it is,
and the writing has the beauty of simplicity
and sincerity.
Do you want to know liow British talkie
stars live? Then get Film Lady, by James
Wedgwood Drawbell (Collins; 7s. 6d.). It
begins in London, where Joy Raynor is star-
ring in a Shaftesbury Avenue show by night
and working in a film studio by day ; moves
on to the south coast, where Colossal Films
are on location, and finishes in Los Angeles
after the screening of Joy’s first Hollywood
picture. Of course the p’cture was a suc-
cess, and of course she married the wrong-
man. But as she is leaving with him for
Honolulu her director, Graham Bentley,
who had gone pale beneath his tan on hear-
ing the dire news, says quietly: “What a
good thing this is a country of easy
divorce!” So happiness looms for them
both. Brightlv written and the characteri-
sation is excellent.
An Elementary Introduction to Physics.
by Edgar Booth (Australasian Medical
Publishing Co.; ss. 6d.). This is a work
introductory and supplementary to the more
advanced treatise by Booth and Nicol, pub-
lished a few months ago. The style is
clear and attractive; due importance is given
to the methods of measurement and experi-
mental proof of the laws formulated, and
the history of the development of each
branch of the subject is briefly touched
upon. Apart from its usefulness as a
scholastic textbook the volume is an up-to-
date compendium of the fundamental physi-
cal formula?. Diagrammatic illustrations are
numerous and helpful. The author is lec-
turer in physics at Sydney Uni. and exami-
ner in physics to the N.S.W. Education
Department.
Murder at the College, by Victor L.
Whitechurch (The Crime Club; 7s. 6d.), in-
troduces a new kind of assassin. _ A number
of art-loving savants meet periodically to
discuss and recommend proposed architec-
tural changes in the local churches, and
one of them goes the way of all Crime
Club lt is one of those works
in which the death occurs in the first
chapter, the others being devoted to the solu-
tion of the mysterious happening.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted:
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.M.S.; “Chaste dawn woke and shyly
dressed.” Perhaps she’d have been more attractive
if she hadn’t... .A.C.T.: Takes a lot of space to
say a very little.... Sussex I.: Sorry, no market
here—the length’s against it. But some American
magazine ought to buy it.... Lindsay N.: For us
prose isn’t improved by sawing it into stove lengths.
. ...G.P.8.: Another long ago said the same thing
much more tersely: “There, but for the grace of God,
goes John Wesley”... .C.R.A.: With hesitation, no.
The climax is g00d... .R.8.C.: “Hail”—and vale.
. ...D.A.S.: Distinct merit; but the lines are too
uneven.... Joyce P.: Youth and roses are an old-
fashioned couple, and dead yesterdays are much
better left at rest —that is, if you want to 5e11....
ILL.W.: Fair. You might hit us harder with some-
thing not so landscapey... .Nora W.: “Quickened-
loosened,” “crime-shrine”—oh, spare our ears!....
W.R.M.: One cheerful line, anyway—“ All the world’s
in crime.” But as verse it’s very dreadful....
Geoff B.: Scrape the barnacles off your brain....
V. : Commonplace... .K.M.K.: They’re both
taking a siesta in the basket... .A.J.T.: Neat little
thoughts in neat little verse. You’ll need to grow
a stronger punch.... Brisbane: But that wasn’t the
first article on the subject, as you infer; it was
the fifth... .G.R.11.: Sorry the “wan-mooned dawn”
worries you ; but what can we do about it ?... .
Freeman: Too melodramatic. .. .P.J.8.: We’re giving
our basket one of its rare tastes of Grand Guignol.
. ...A.G.S.: Good picture; but there is an over-
supply of descriptive verse... .E.V.8.: Bit cryptic.
. ...T.T.T.: Your ear wants tuning. .. .0.F.: Nobody
is barred. But you’ll have to study the language.
For instance, w’hen you’re waiting prose it doesn’t
matter a great deal if you slip into saying “inci-
dently.” But it throws you a syllable out if you’re
writing verse. .-. .W.D.G.: A pretty conceit, but mere
prettiness isn’t quite enough... .8.D.H.: “Rain” just
a hash-up of things said a thousand times ; “Dogs”
almost pointless doggerel.... Akiwibloke: We
wouldn’t for the world discourage you from “trying
to express the great regard and love you have for
Australia,” but do it in prose next time... .M.J.L.:
Kindergarten class.... Toscet: Poor parody, further
marred by a couple of vile rhymes. .. .Hoey: An in-
spiring theme; if only your Pegasus were less
spavined and broken-winded !... .K.J.J.: If rieketiness
is appropriate in earthquake verse, yours fulfils that
requirement... .Edin: It gave us the shivers....
W. : 111-spelled and abominably-rhymed bathos.
11.D.: What’s this, a pastoral of the milking
yards ?:
A Friesian here, and a Holstein there.
Thank Heaven they differ to some
Extent, these cows, in color and shape,
As into the tails they come.
Jersey, Shorthorn and Ayrshire, too—
A curse on the motley mob !
It’s just an eternal round of cows
On this twenty-bob-a-week job.
Still, it’s more than you might make by smiting
the lyre, if this is a fair sample — .A.R.M.M.: You
didn’t improve it...A.D.: Not convincing. . .J.H. W.:
Can’t feature you ys a schoolmaster; you have so
much to learn.... Sylvester: What is a inorae—or
did you coin the word for the sake of a rhyme V
. ...K.K.: Not bad of its kind, but right off our
beat.... V.C.: Begins none too well and ends with
distressing feebleness... .M.C.P.: It skidded early.
. ...C.G.: An old Digger . yarn.... 8.5.: Worthless.
... .M.G.0.5.: Story wasn’t worth the trouble your
vile handwriting gave u5....J.C.: Ended feebly-....
E. : Give up reading thrillers... .A.R.D.: Humor
very thin... .Three S.: Dreary. .. .A.C.8.: Not a print-
able yarn... .M.E.M.: Missed. .. . H.A.M.: Too many
adjectives, and why make a river masculine and a
brook feminine?... .W.G.S.: Your mournful verses
on the prospect of Yulgilbah Castle being turned into
a butter factory made our heart ache.... Punter:
A bad tip in worse rhyme. .. .G.V.L.: The week’s
woodenest offering... .G. 8.: Toshy. .. .L.D.: Found
your yokels wearisome... .G.M.: You squander words.
. ...L.J.K.: Conventional tale of estrangement and
reconciliation... .F.W.: Sentimental garrotter doesn’t
ring true... .R.C.M.: Hackneyed... .N.P.: Too much
gas in the meter-reader’s romance.... C. 8.: Save the
passionate maestro for a flapper’s paper... .J.S.: You
won’t make cigarette money unless you improve a
ton... .M.T.: So the man left home because the
missus gave him porridge and herrings for breakfast.
Well, we 11!... .R.0.D.: Not keen on Christmas yarns
with English trappings. .. .A.N.: Hopeless.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.D.: Promising. Continue. .. .G.N.: Tell him to
send original sketches; can’t judge from copies....
F. : Still knocking at the door M.P.: No need
to give your bushmen necks like giraffes... .L.S.:
Uneven drawings; spiritless jokes... .C.M.S.: Won’t
be needing the sarcastic S.M D.P.: Muddy wash,
and the oldest butcher’s-shop joke in captivity....
N.C.: Is it a bather, or a waterspout?. .. .J.H.:
You get this week’s booby prize.... F.L.11.: Ancient
jest... .R. 8.: Not a saleable one among them
E.C.: Drunks gave us a pain in the neck... .L.J.H.:
The pair on the sofa might have strayed from
Midget Town G.W.: Surely you can get a finer
line with the brush than that! J.Q.: Almost....
T.S.: Another beat you to the post 8.N.: Your
flappers are too skinny... .S.J. A.: Returning brat in
backless gown M.C.: Process-engraver will never
read your host of instructions to him R.T.: Is it
dog, goat or lamb?. .. .H.L.P.: Not far 0ff....H.5.:
Left us with a headache. .. .G.V.: The arms are
wretchedly drawn. .. .F.T.: Lessons badly needed... .
R.C.G.: There is a difference between merely sug-
gesting and half-finishing a drawing M.A.: The
model should sue you for defamation of figure....
8.5.: Just so-so F. 8.: Awful N.F.: A wasted
effort. .. .8.M.: Jack and, Jill are no gloom-chasers.
C.B.L. : Seems a pity, to deface such beautiful
drawing paper W.J.T.: No applause for cross-eyed
copper and deformed prisoner.


ƒds
df
i.
■
■
m
mm
s I
I
mmm
! :
,|i|g
■I
S /
>4%
PETER PAN
Winner of the Melbourne Cup,
1932.
Owner - - - R. R. Dangar
Trainer- - - F. McGrath
Jockey- - - W. Duncan
Weight- - - 7st. 61b.
Time- - - - 3min. 23isec.
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 53. —No. 2752.
November 9, 1932.
NO THOROUGHFARE.
“Mr. Norman, Governor of the Bank of England, says he can see only a faint glimmer of light ahead.”— Cable.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFJCE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: IH-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, H Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12c, 6d.;
S months, 7s.
To any address Overseas i 12 months, £1 10s.;
< months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months. Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for joz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
NATIONAL SONG COMPETITION
For the words only of a song suitable
for use in schools and elsewhere.
Prizes: £25, £lO and five of £l.
Entries close at the “Bulletin” Office,
Sydney, next Wednesday (November 16).
THE FUTURE OF PRICES.
Something besides their own market supply
obviously affects the prices of commodities.
Prices generally doubled inside a few years
within the present generation and there was
no failure of supply to account for it; now
they have been almost halved, and as
to many commodities there has been no
tremendous increase of supply to explain the
movement in this opposite direction. There
was a time when it would have been said con-
fidently that gold did it: if gold was plentiful
prices rose; if it was scarce prices fell. But
there has been no slump in gold production
to account for the recent fall in prices; and
if there had been a slump it would not have
reduced the world’s stocks of the metal. It
is plain, then, that disturbing factors have
been developed; hence the future is more
obscure than it otherwise might be.
One danger is that, because disturbing
factors have emerged, we may be misled
into under-rating the effect which gold still
has upon prices. In America, however,
there is a growing disposition to believe
that the rising markets which have been a
notable feature of the past 30 years—down
to the crash of three years ago—were
primarily due to the enormous increase in
the output of the metal. The rapidity of
this increase is almost staggering. Soet-
beer’s classical table of gold production
showed that for 396 years down to 1888 the
annual average had been £4,050,000 sterling.
Even in the ’forties and ’fifties, when Cali-
fornia and Australia were turning out what
the world then regarded as fabulous quanti-
ties, the annual average was under 18 mil-
lions sterling. For 40 years afterwards,
thanks to the new facilities for working reef
claims, there was a fairly steady output of
about 24 millions a year. This was down
to 1890. Then in quick succession the world
saw the development of the Rand, Klon-
dyke, Mt. Morgan and Kalgoorlie, and by
1899 the world’s total for 12 months had
climbed to 64 millions. In the ’fifties—the
period of all the rushes—the Australian pro-
duction (10 years) was 105 millions; be-
tween 1901 and 1910 it was 142 millions.
Yet Australia has been completely over-
shadowed in these later days by the Rand,
which has maintained an average of over 40
millions a year for nearly 30 years. In the
five years 1925-29, the world production,
helped greatly by this phenomenal field,
was 414 millions, which was more than the
average per century for the whole world in
the 400 years prior to 1890 The world’s
store of the metal was trebled in 40 years.
Jevons, the great economist of an earlier
generation, compiled an index table taking
as a base (= 100) the prices of 1846, the
year before the gold discoveries had begun
to have an effect on commodity markets.
He showed a steady fall in prices to 1849,
when the index figure was 85; but from then
on there was a rapid rise to 123 in 1857.
From that again there was a slow but
fairly regular fall right on to 1869, where
his figures end at 103. At that point our
own Australian Coghlan began his inquiries;
he shows that the average value of a given
quantity of commodities fell from 1000 in
1870-74 to 645 in 1890-94 and to 600 in 1895-
99. Combining Jevons and Coghlan, we find
that, apparently under the influence of the
Californian and Australian gold discoveries,
prices between 1849 and 1857 ran up 47
p.c.; then they turned and by the end of
the century had fallen away 52 p.c. A
striking fact is that, notwithstanding the
rapid increase in the gold output in the
’nineties, prices then continued to fall.
During those 10 years the average prices
of our exports declined no less than 25 p.c.;
of our imports, 14 p.c. This suggests that
the effect of gold on prices is no longer
rapid: that it takes some years of accumula-
tion before its influence is felt. After 1900
the movement was irregular; but the trend
of prices was definitely upwards. English
and American figures show between 1900
and 1913 a rise of approximately 33 p.c.; our
own retail price index numbers went from
880 in 1901 to 1104 in 1913, a rise of 25 p.c.
It seems certain from these figures that the
tremendous accumulation of gold was now
having its effect.
Then the war came; and with it the
great inflation. Wholesale prices in Mel-
bourne, taking them at 1000 in July, 1914,
reached 1799 in July, 1923, and were still
1441 in July, 1930; compared with 1901
(=1000), prices of Australian exports reached
2254 in 1920-21, swung back for a year or
two and mounted to 2803 in 1924-25. In-
flation is inevitable in war-time. Whenever
money is borrowed to buy something the
seed of inflation is sown; and the total
amount borrowed in Britain during the war
period was 5800 millions. This meant that
purchasing was speeded up to a prodigious
extent, with the natural result of a huge
rise in prices. What we have to determine
now is how much of the rise since 1900 was
due to this war inflation and how much
to the huge increase in the stocks of gold.
During the past three years we have buoyed
ourselves up with promises of a rise in
prices; but for thoughtful people there has
always been a skeleton in the cupboard.
They have seen that in the 10 years 1885-
94 the average price of wool, for example,
was only 7M., and from 1895 to 1904 no
more than Bd. In 1923-24 the average
reached 24.1 d. and in 1924-25 it was 25.2 d.
Where does the future of prices lie? Have
we any reason at all for looking forward
to the figures of the ’twenties; or, if we
must turn back, how far must we go?
The price figures for the period between
1901 and 1914 seem most conclusive. The
piling up of gold was bearing fruit; more-
over, it seems certain that if the war had
not occurred prices would have gone on
rising. How far they would have gone it is
impossible, of course, to say. There was
hardly any slackening of the world’s gold
crop in the war period; in 1915, in fact,
it reached a colossal 95 millions. Since the
beginning of the war the aggregate has
passed 1400 millions—very neariy as much
as all the world gave in the 400 years prior
to 1890. On such figures it is not possible
to believe that even the prices of 1914 are
the nofmal prices of to-day. Those of the
post-war boom-years may be ridiculous;
but unless gold has lost all its influence
on prices, those of the pre-war years are
equally ridiculous. And it is not possible
to believe that gold has lost its influence on
prices in view of what happened between
1901 and 1914.
The effect of “the purchasing power
brought into existence as a result of the
immense war loans” is more problematical.
Yet so high ail authority as Reginald
McKenna, the ex-Chancellor, declared as
far back as 1921 that “this purchasing power
will not be lost,” and “may be expected
to be freely exercised as soon as it is
believed that prices have touched bottom.
A heavy drop in prices,” he declared, “can
therefore only be temporary.” And still
earlier (1920), addressing the shareholders
of the Midland Bank, he had said: “Shall
we ever get back to pre-war prices? If I
might hazard an opinion it would be that
prices will remain permanently on a far
higher level than in 1914. The rise that
has taken place is not local. It is not even
European and American. It covers the
whole world. Increased production”—of
commodities, of course—“will bring down
prices to a certain extent, but the purchas-
ing power of the world measured in money
cannot be materially diminished.” The
figures we have been considering seem to
entirely support that conclusion.
EXCHANGE AND THE FARMER.
From the General Secretary of the U.C.P.
in N. S. Wales:—
The Country party does not seek a higher
exchange rate (with which is advocated a
corresponding reduction in the tariff) as a
bonus or a gift; but asks for it as mere
justice. It desires a rate which will more
truly express the difference in the purchasing
power of Britain and Australia, and in
support of this contention it can quote the
views of leading Australian and overseas
economists. Can the low-exchange advocates
do likewise?
Unless the exchange rate goes up, or
unless export prices rise in the near future,
primary production must decline in volume
with the result (a) that Australia will be
compelled to default in her overseas interest
payments, and (ft) that the excess of im-
ports, about which The Bulletin is con-
cerned, will automatically solve itself.
The Bulletin says that owing to
exchange our overseas interest bill has
increased by £7,000,000 a year. Is it not
time we ceased chasing rainbows in regard
to this question of exchange? The calcula-
tion is seemingly based on the assumption
that we could, should or might be at par
with sterling. But we are not; and it will
be many a long day before we return to
that position. To say that we are paying
£7,000,000 a year more than we would have
paid if we were at par gets us nowhere. It
would be just as reasonable to complain
that because eggs are Is. a dozen, whereas
they were lOd. three months ago, we lose
2d. on every dozen we now buy.
We must face the fact that our currency
has ceased to be identical with British cur-
rency. Our “pound” is no longer a pound
in the sense that the British pound is a
pound, and all the arithmetic that Hamblin
Smith ever wrote will not bring back to us
that par rate, which is gone but not for-
gotten.
To which The Bulletin replies:—
But who was it said that our £ never
can be equal to the British £ again? There
is no reason at all why it should not be;
there are many reasons why it should be;
there are overwhelming reasons —national
pride, for one thing—why we should struggle
to make it be. It is not the depreciation
of our £ which we need worry about; it is
the depreciation of our people. Nothing hut
that can keep our £ from recovering to par
with the British £.
We are told that the Country party “desires
a rate which will more truly express the
difference in the purchasing power of Britain
and Australia.” Is this Australia, then, a
poor, miserable country where it costs so
much to produce things that we must not
hope that our £ can buy as much as the £
does in England? Is it such a poor, miser-
able country that it cannot produce wheat,
wool, barley, metals, fruit, vegetables or
meat at the English prices? For there can
be only one reason why a £ should purchase
less in Australia than in England—that
things cost more to produce. And that of
course is utterly untrue: _it docs not cost
more to produce these things in Australia
than in England. On the contrary, most
of these things can be produced for less in
Australia than in almost any other place
in the world.
We shall be told, however, that wages in
the secondary industries are higher, and that
this makes the cost of primary production
high. In most new countries the costs in
secondary industries are high; but so far
as the primary industries of those countries
are concerned there is, or should be, a set-off
in the lower value of land. And there we
come to what is chiefly the matter with the
primary industries of Australia. They have
boomed our land values; and to-day they
are in consequence groaning under the
weight of interest burdens. Very largely
this struggle to keep up the exchange rate
is merely a struggle to avoid writing down
inflated land values. We are told that
“leading economists” approve of a high
exchange rate. This paper has never heard
of them. It lias, however, heard of certain
bankers and their followers and dependants
doing so. The S. Australian Auditor-General,
who has been inquiring into the position of
farmers in his State, reports that “in many
cases interest is more than half the per-acre
cost of production.” He investigated 14 cases
in the Mid-North. To grow a bushel of
wheat on each of the 14 cost for actual
working expenses 10s. 3d. Interest cost
15s. sd. Thus interest on these farms runs
into 50 p.c. more than actual working
expenses. Is it any wonder that strong-
influences are at work to hold up or increase
the exchange rate and thus to avoid if pos-
sible writing down values?
All that troubles The Bulletin is that
a higher exchange rate would do the
primary producer the worst possible service:
it would raise his costs at a time when
the reduction of costs is the most important
thing industrially in the world. Not only
must he pay his share of the extra taxation
necessary to provide for exchange on interest
payments; not only must he pay his share
of the extra cost of imports; he must
pay higher costs also for all goods pro-
duced in Australia and consuming material
which otherwise would be exported. For
instance, the spelter used in Australia by
the galvanised-iron and -wire manufacturer
has to be bought on the basis not of English
prices alone but of those prices plus
exchange. In other words, materials for
local consumption have to be bought in com-
petition with foreign buyers who add
exchange to their prices. Thus it is not
only on the imported article he buys that
the primary producer has to pay exchange:
it is on the Australian manufactured pro-
duct as well.
As far as he carries the matter, the S.
Australian Auditor-General puts the case
with characteristic fairness. “The increased
prices [due to exchange] prevented many of
our primary producers from being ruined,”
he writes. “It must be remembered, how-
ever, that an increased exchange rate con-
fers only a temporary benefit to our exports”
—the italics are his—“and temporary pro-
tection to our manufacturers. The ultimate
result will be, roughly, that prices and costs
will settle down to a new equilibrium, and
the benefit will not then continue.”
The Bulletin does not advocate, and
never has advocated, a low exchange rate.
It only seeks a natural rate —a rate which
will be governed by the flow of exports and
imports. If there is not sufficient balance
to meet our obligations overseas, the rate
would automatically rise; if the balance is
too great, the law of supply and demand
would see that the rate fell. If our £is not
worth as much as the English £ —that is to
say, if our cost of production is higher—it
will be reflected in the flow of trade. If
costs are high at Bourke things are
not made or produced at Bourke; so if
costs are high in Australia goods will not
flow out, and exchange will automatically'
rise in order to check imports, if they are
in need of checking. There is no occasion
to fix the rate; the rate will fix itself. All
that the Bank has to do is to see that
erratic movements’ are prevented.
THE FOURTEENTH ANNIVERSARY.
Let us survey the progress we have made
Since the last shard sped screaming
through the air
And hope seemed promised after near-
despair.
They say the villages are new arrayed,
And there is peace where once the battle
swayed;
I like to think that France again is
fair....
But there are mutterings; and everywhere
The senile “patriot” plies his sorry trade.
Are they to die in vain who were so young,
Yet gave so much to bring the nations
ease,
And lie to-day amidst a foreign dust?
See to it, Masters, that the garlands hung
To keep alive the memory of these
Prove not the mockeries of a broken
trust.
N.S.W.
GEOFFERY GUMINE.
TIN HARES AND BRASS WOLVES.
Justice Halse Rogers, reporting as a
Royal Commissioner on the N. S. Wales
tin-hare and fruit-machine scandals, found
“a widely held opinion that to get things
done bribery must be employed, and a
readiness in people of all sorts and condi-
tions to subscribe money to be used for
bribery.” He found that “there stood
revealed two takers of toll—Swindell, a
schemer and deviser of crooked stratagems,
unprincipled and unscrupulous, a sinister
figure in any community ; and Sleeman, a
publicity officer in Government employ.”
He found that “applications in which Swin-
dell had any interest were always successful
and immediately successful if it suited him,”
that “in the granting of permits the wishes
of Swindell were followed in almost every
case,” and that Swindell was “in close
touch with some section of the Cabinet
throughout.” He found that before the
grant of any tin-hare license or permit
Swindell had promised a large sum of
money to pay the advertising account for
the Labor party; that between October,
1931, and July, 1932, he obtained from
various sources £22,000, the bulk of which was
received by him in notes of large denomin-
ation; and that, after allowing for the sums
paid for Labor party advertising, there is
between £5OOO and £6OOO “as to the disposal
of which no account appears in any record.”
He found that the Cabinet with which the
unscrupulous and unprincipled Swindell was
in close touch throughout, or part of it,
disregarded the law in dealing with these
permits or licenses. “Mr. Gosling”—Mr.
Mark Gosling, late Chief Secretary—“when
asked whence a certain power was derived,
said that the Cabinet ‘arrogated it to
itself.’ ” As to the same Minister, “I find
it impossible,” the Commissioner says, “to
accept his account of these transactions,”
though presumably the account was given on
oath. He found that Mr. Gosling, as Chief
Secretary, wrote a minute saying that he had
“conferred with the Premier and the
Minister for Public Health,” and that
various permits—in which the admirable
Mr. Swindell was interested—might now be
issued. And with regard to the fruit-
machines, he found that “Trautwein
received money for the purpose of procuring
immunity from prosecution for those hotel-
keepers who installed machines; that he
received for the purpose of that scheme
£3000; and that he did take steps to pro-
cure the desired immunity Ministerial
intervention is one of the outstanding
features of the case.”
Not the least disturbing part of the busi-
ness is that nobody who went about with
his eyes open during the 18 months of
Mr. Lang’s last tenure of office will be at
all surprised at the findings; and nobody
would be at all surprised if similar findings
were made upon inquiry into many other
matters—including the invasion of Parlia-
ment itself with certain bills. It is disturb-
ing because, though so many people believed
that something was very wrong, they were
quite helpless. Under present law a Gov-
ernment though it were composed of
unscrupulous gangsters might continue in
office for a whole three years and nothing
that the country might do could dislodge
it. For it has to be kept in mind
that the Cabinet’s association with Mr.
Swindell had nothing whatever to do with
the dismissal of Mr. Lang and his Ministers.
Its employment of Mr. Sleeman, one of the
“takers of toll,” had no connection with
that dismissal, either. Mr. Gosling and his
colleagues might have gone on arrogating to
themselves powers to do certain things or
to leave them undone, as they themselves
or Mr. Swindell might decide, and appa-
rently, though the, whole State might know
about it, not a thing could be done.
This must be altered. There are three
possibilities. First, it may be practicable
to make the Governor the guardian of the
people and their self-governing rights. If
he believes that his advisers, the gentlemen
for whom he is responsible, and who act
in the name of the King whom he serves—
if he believes that they are crooks, or are
doing things for which they have no autho-
rity from the people, it ought to be his
duty to Send them to their masters. He
might conceivably do it to-day. But it has
been made quite clear to us that he is not
required to do it; and he should be. But
that will not be enough. There must be
power of impeachment. Even if Ministers
in this case did all that it is possible to
believe they did, and if it could be proved,
it is still doubtful whether they could be
found guilty of any crime. Certainly a
Minister could be utterly corrupt and yet
escape punishment under the criminal law.
And, finally, there are possibilities of pro-
tection in that appeal to the people known
as the recall. There would be no harm in
giving us all three things.
Yet something more even than this is
needed—a realisation that we have allowed
ourselves to drift. In the Commissioner’s
phrase, “people of all sorts and conditions”
are affected. As The Bulletin said last
week, before this report was issued.
“Crookedness and corruption have made
such headway, not because any great,
number of people-actively and consciously
approve, but because most of us have taken
the easy course of non-resistance—as in the
matter of the N. S. Wales State lottery, for
example.”


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Uncle Sam Chooses a President.
It is years since a Presidential election
meant so little as the one which is proceed-
ing at this moment. Australia’s old friend
“Hail Columbia” Hoover and Franklin
Roosevelt are the candidates, Hoover on the
Republican side, Roosevelt as the Democrat.
Hoover has to stand mainly on his work
during his term now drawing to a close;
Roosevelt makes the invariable appeal of
the Opposition—that it could have done
far better and will do far better. And
because the past three years have been a
period of tremendous difficulty, culminating
in unexampled unemployment, it is not
unlikely that Hoover will be displaced, not-
withstanding his organising genius.
It is quite obvious that neither party
sees any way out of the nation’s difficulties
except that of hard work, self-denial and
patience; and they make poor materials
for the purposes of such a campaign as this.
The U.S.A. people, more than most, are
carried away by the striking phrase; and
it is hard to make any such thing out of
the homely virtues which the situation
demands. So a hundred small issues have
been put before the country, many of them
local, others purely sectional; and, in the
absence of great issues, personalities have
been largely dwelt upon. Where larger
issues have been dealt with, almost always
it has been with obvious vote-catching in-
tention. Thus prohibition has been thrust
into the forefront, with the Democrats
declaring themselves prepared under certain
conditions to wipe the great experiment out,
while the Republicans will leave the way
open to do almost anything at all. In the
battle of personalities, great play has been
made with the name of Roosevelt—that of
a former President, one of the ablest as
well as the most picturesque of modern
times, and of his distinguished son, now
Governor of the Philippines. Yet actually
the present Roosevelt is but a remote
family connection of these aristocrats in a
democratic land; his wife is more nearly
related to them. But Hoover has a strong
pull on personal grounds, too. He belongs
to that great army in which every new
country takes pride; the son of poor
parents, whose graduation and professional
success bear witness to the opportunities
which it offers. And while the professional
success of such men is flattering to a new
democracy, the elevation of one of them to
the highest post in the land confirms what
ten thousand village patriots have said in
ten thousand Main Streets. It is the next-
best thing to winning the post themselves.
But if the campaign has been a thing of
shreds and patches, it has made clearer that
the Republic holds a strong body of opinion
in favor of wiping out all war debts, For
this the United States no less than the
Allies are greatly indebted to the campaign
led by Frederick W. Peabody, of Massa-
chusetts, who has not rested from this
tremendous work for nearly 10 years. At
the outset he appealed to his country to
do the right thing because it was the right
thing. The U.S.A. had provided money
“as a substitute for men.” But though,
afterwards, Britain and her allies demanded
nothing of America for their dead, America
demanded more than mere repayment of
the money which it had provided “as &
substitute for men”—demanded not only
the 94 billions of dollars of principal, but
11 billions besides for interest. The party
which pleaded with their country for the
cancellation of war debts asked it at
first for their country’s honor. It is not
pleasant to remember that they were not
listened to. But a new argument was pre-
paring to descend upon the republic with
irresistible force. In 1917 Mr. Hoover,
not then, of course, President, said:
“America will be rich and prosperous as a
result of this war. We shall have made
untold millions, and all out of the woe and
the swelter of Europe.” For once, how-
ever, Mr. Hoover was wrong. America may
still be rich, but it has ceased to be pros-
perous. It found out that the “untold
millions” it had made were phantom mil-
lions —that it was one thing to get “the
woe and swelter of Europe” to promise to
pay and quite another to make them cap-
able of paying.
In these past few years Uncle Sam has
made many discoveries; and out of the
wreckage of his highest hopes he may yet
win his lost self-respect.
+
Will Interest Rates Fall?
Bank interest rates, down to 21 p.c. for
three-month deposits, are lower than they
have been for 20 years; and in the hosannas
that have arisen The Bulletin is not able
to join with any enthusiasm. It may be
that the world is in for a period of cheap
money; but the large conversions in Britain
suggest that there is no firm belief there
that rates will go much lower. The fact
is that money is not cheap except for gilt-
edged securities, and it is cheap for them
only because for the moment faith has been
lost in others. With the return of confi-
dence money will pass by these trustee
investments once more; and it will be a
good thing for the world when it does.
Australia especially, as a debtor nation, has
more to gain from high prices, even with
their accompaniment of high interest rates,
than from those low interest rates which
practically always come with low prices.
That commodity prices and interest rates
do move together our past history shows
quite clearly. In the sixties of last cen-
tury Australian Governments were paying
over p.c. That was a period of high values;
taking the prices of 1599 as a base (=100),
those of 1862 were 178. From that point
there was a steady fall in interest rate to
p.c. in 1874; that time the price
level was down to 139. In 1895 the interest
rate fell to 3 p.c.; the price level was down
to 74. In other words, both prices and
interest rates on Australian Government
stock had fallen just over 50 p.c. Thence
there was a slight improvement in prices to
the end of the century, and interest rates
moved in harmony. Since 1900 the two sets
of figures have advanced and receded
together, interest rates reaching their high-
est with record commodity prices, and slip-
ping quickly when they slumped.
At June 30 Australia had a floating debt
of 83 millions; and at the moment there is
an obvious disposition in some quarters to
postpone funding operations on the assump-
tion that money will be much cheaper
presently. It probably will go lower. But
it is dangerous to assume that the normal
rate is the rate of 20 to 30 years ago. If
it is, then the prices of 20 to 30 years ago
are also the normal prices of to-day; and
it would be a tragedy to have to believe
that. Fortunately the evidence is all the
other way.
—— ❖
The Thing We Haven’t Tried.
Three years of depression, and nearly 30
per cent, of trade-unionists unemployed at
the end of the third year! Thirty-five per
cent, of unionists out of work in South
Aus., 33 per cent, in N. S. Wales, 30.1 per
cent, in Westralia, 27 per cent, in Victoria,
26.9 per cent, in Tasmania and 19.3 per
cent in Queensland! No doubt men have
been reported unemployed who are really
working; in N. S. Wales, moreover, figures
were perhaps cooked so that the hated
Stevens might not be shown to have
effected an improvement in his first quarter.
But when every allowance is made for in-
accuracies and exaggerations, the position
is tragic, and, with Communists incessantly
agitating and organising mob demonstra-
tions—especially since Britain denounced its
trade agreement with Russia —it may easily
become dangerous.
We have waited three years for price
levels to rise, and they refuse to rise. We
have tried reduction of bond interest, reduc-
tion of administrative expenditure (though
not to the extent necessary), moratoriums,
suspension of distraint for rent, inflation
in one form and another and borrowing
for public works; and, thousrh things may
show some improvement, 300.000 are still
workless. Doubtless there are poor creatures
among them; but the great majority are
decent, kindly people who have borne adver-
sity with courage and sobriety.
One thing we have not tried is reduction
of taxes. Impossible! Well, is it? _ It
would certainly put heart into struggling
industries and loosen purse-strings now held
tight by fear. Let us take our courage in
our hands and carve down the income
tax and the sales tax, and remove the
nightmare of the Federal land tax from the
grazing industry. Let us abolish the special
Federal tax of 10 per cent, on property
income—that harsh and stupid impost
which, as Paterson, deputy-leader of the
Country party, has shown, is standing in the
way of the urgently necessary reduction of
interest on farm mortgages. And let N. S.
Wales do away with the criminal folly of
taxing wage-payers for giving work and
men and women for taking it. The banks
would have to be asked to stand behind the
Governments during the transitional period,
but they and their customers would benefit
from reduction of taxes, and, paradoxical
as it seems, many people who have ceased
to pay taxes (for example, houseowners
with men now unemployed for tenants)
would be placed in a position to contribute
to the revenue. Let us, at the same time,
make an urgent appeal to employers, actual
and potential, to give men and women
work to the extent of the tax-remissions,
and as much more as they can. This
nation has its faults, but when appealed to
on the score of its patriotism and humanity
it has never yet failed to respond.
« :
Australia and the English Air Mail.
The establishment at long last of an air
mail service between England and Australia
seems practically certain. The. manner, in
which it is to be conducted is the only
point in dispute. The Dutch co. which
already conducts a mail service between
Batavia and Amsterdam makes the attrac-
tive-looking offer of a service “without
subsidy.” It proposes, so it is understood,
to charge 2s. per half-ounce for mail matter,
and estimates that it will carry 10001 b. of
such mail matter each way on each weekly
trip, ensuring a revenue of well over
£300,000 p.a. if it does the whole journey,
or of about £140,000 if it links Australia
with the Imperial Airways service to India.
The Imperial Airways Co., for its part,
offers to extend its service from India to
Singapore, also without subsidy from Aus-
tralia, but it does not quote its charges. A
combination of the three largest Australian
aviation cos. (which in any event would
have to attend to the carriage of mail from
Darwin or Wyndham to the Australian
capitals) is bidding for the right to run the
mails from Calcutta or Singapore to Aus-
tralia.
Now, the Dutch co., the English co. and
the combined Australian cos. are all private
concerns out for profit. No matter what
form of agreement is entered into with any
of them the Australian public will have to
pay for the service. And it would seem,
from the keenness with which rival claims
are being pressed, that there is money in
these long-distance mail services. Judging
by experience on similar routes there seems
little doubt that the Dutch estimate of
10001 b. of mail matter per trip will be
realised. The Dutch co. carries 5001 b. of
mail each trip between the 210,000 white
people of the Netherlands East Indies and
Holland. The veiy recently-established
Imperial Airways service between England
and Africa carries already 4501 b. weekly;
the same co.’s service between England and
India carries 12001 b. weekly. It seems
reasonable to suppose that correspondence
between Australia’s 6,500,000 and Britains
millions will be considerable.
The prospects being thus, the offer of the
Australian organisations seems to favor the
taxpayer. They are at present (taken
collectively) enjoying subsidies from the
Commonwealth Government which amount,
net, to about £85,000 p.a. for conducting
internal services only. They offer to forego
these contributions, and put all their eggs
in one basket—the Australia-England mail
service and the distribution of those mails
to the various capitals. If their part of the
service, whether to Calcutta or Singapore —
naturally they want as much mileage as
they can get—realises the estimate of
10001 b. of mail matter, they will be con-
tent without any contribution whatever.
If it falls below that amount, the Common-
wealth Government is to pay the difference
between actual revenue and a previously
agreed-upon opei’ating cost. If the volume
of mail is only 5001 b. per trip—half the
Dutch estimate —the loss to be made up
will be £75,000 p.a., or £lO,OOO less than
the present contribution.
No nation on earth has contributed more
to the pioneering of air routes than Aus-
tralia; we have a small army of pilots,
navigators, mechanics and administrators
whose qualifications stand second to no-
body’s, and we ought to be making use of
them, if not for their sakes, for the sake of
our national safety. It is the elementary
commonsense of defence to make, sure that
our lines of communication with the rest of
the Empire are in British hands; it is pre-
ferable, on a score of counts, that this end
of those lines should be in Australian hands.
It has been argued that while the Aus-
tralian personnel is all right its material is
inadequate. It is true the Dutch have faster
’planes than either Imperial Airways or the
Australian cos., but the difference is not very
important, being represented by the disparity
between 115 and 100 m.p.h. cruising speed.
Thus the Dutch can offer an initial service
of 12 days between Amsterdam and Darwin,
to be improved later to 10 days, whereas the
British concerns will start at 14 days be-
tween London and Darwin, with subsequent
promised acceleration to 12 days and then
to 10 days. In the matter of safety, all the
bidders use triple-engined ’planes, and the
Australian-owned, British-built “Avro Xs”
can be fitted with apparatus to enable
safe water landings to be effected in emer-
gency? No sound reason has been shown
why Australia should not do its own share
of the work on this highly important
service, and there are a score of good
reasons connected with the defence of these
shores why it ought do it.
A Red Exodus.
For weary years the Federal authorities
have been talking of dealing firmly with
the Communist menace. Labor when in
office has been as vociferous as the other
side. If it has tacitly permitted the Red
Creed to spread unchecked, the people over
the way have been just as remiss when their
turn came. The Lyons Government recently
amended the Crimes Act and gave itself
drastic powers to deal with the trouble;
but except for a trifling prosecution or two,
nothing has been done. As a result the
doctrines preached by the Third Inter-
national have steadily gained ground and
have constantly been put in practice. Their
latest manifestation is the pitiful “dde
strike” in N. S. Wales, where the Soviet
agents have seized upon the issue by the
Government of new application forms for
dole-seekers as an excuse to urge on their
audiences the destruction of the forms as a
protest. It is their hope, of course, that
hunger-maddened mobs, refused food unless
the forms are submitted, will take it by
force and thus lay down a promising-
foundation for the longed-for revolution.
Australia is one of the very few countries
which view this sort of thing with indiffer-
ence. Even placid Britain deals forthrightly
with the imported revolutionary. He indeed
represents no real difficulty. Since he will
use whatever power the minority can lay
hold of to impose its will on the majority,
he cannot be tolerated in a democratic
community. And he must be tolerated the
less because he deliberately chooses violence
as the means to his ends. “Violence,” his
writer Sorel says, “gives back to the prole-
tariat their natural weapon.” For the re-
volutionary of another country there is,
then, only one road in a sane democracy,
and that is the road tothe nearest port.
The home-grown revolutionary presents a
much more difficult problem. What shall
be done with him?
No doubt the question could be argued
from now till Doomsday. But Communism
itself, represented in this matter by the
Soviet Government, shows the practical
way. Trotsky, leader in the Bolshevik vic-
tory which put Russia into the hands of the
Communists, Minister for Foreign Affairs
in the first Bolshevik Government, was
presently judged to be a danger to the new
order. The Communist party was not.
stupid enough to waste time arguing about
Trotsky’s natural rights. It offered him
two alternatives: he could stay in Russia
dead or go out of it alive. He preferred
to go out alive. Russia thus tore away all
the rags of casuistiy with which the question
has been surrounded and gave the only sen-
sible answer: a man has a right to the free-
dom of the land in which he was born so long
only as he is willing to abide by its laws.
Always, of course, there is what John Han-
cock, of Victoria, called “the sacred right,
of Revolution.” But, as John was reminded
in the Assembly, always with the sacred
right of Revolution must go the sacred right
of hanging—with the sacred right of expul-
sion as a twentieth-century compromise.
*
The Trade Union Under Communism.
Many of the stories which come from
Russia are obviously tainted, but there is
no reason to suspect a little cable that was
printed a few days ago. A fortnight pre-
viously there had been a bad railway smash;
and now the stationmaster and two station
officials were up for trial. The station-
master “had signalled the line clear while
it was occupied by another train,” and the
two officials, one of them merely a watch-
man, had allowed him to do so. The
stationmaster was sentenced to death—he
was ordered to be shot —and of the minor
officials one was sentenced to eight' years'
and the other to six years’ imprisonment.
All this is very interesting and very sig-
nificant : it shows a new conception of civic
duty and responsibility. In this Or any
other country organised on familiar lines the
stationmaster might have been charged with
manslaughter, and might possibly have been
sent to prison, not for giving a wrong
signal, but for causing death. The sub-
ordinates, taking no part in the matter,
could not have been charged. In Russia
they all committed a social offence. They
did something calculated to break down
the public’s trust in the railways; they
damaged the good name of Soviet industrial
control; they were enemies of the new
system. And this offence, unknown to our
system, was judged to merit death or many
years of imprisonment. “It is not techni-
cally equipped automatons that are re-
quired,” a Russian propagandist wrote
recently. “Nothing will suffice but ‘new
people,’ possessing initiative, the spirit of
service, a conscious enthusiasm for social
service and the Plan; each worker alert,
informed. The Plan rests on individual
loyalty, efficiency and self-sacrifice.” In
our civilisation we have decided that certain
things are crimes. But there are a hun-
dred disgraceful things or things to be con-
demned which are not crimes. One can be
a thoroughly indifferent citizen and yet no
criminal. The makers of the new order in
Russia are little concerned with many of
the things we call crimes, as they
pass bv unnoticed many of the things wo
call virtues. But they have created a
new criminal code. “Anti-social conduct,
which may be laziness, or carelessness in
one’s job, or merely neglect to overcome
one’s own inefficiency, is punishable with
anything up to death. This is the code
which was put into operation in the case
mentioned in this cable.
With that entirely different conception
of civic duty, such bodies as the trades
unions have functions entirely different from
those of similar bodies here. That the
trade union should be “an equal partner
with the management’’ and “an integral
section of the governing authority of the
country” strikes us as an impossible posi-
tion. But we have to realise the Russian
trade union’s functions: —
The trade union is responsible for framing labor
laws arid the administration of insurance, and par-
ticipates in the planning of industry. In the factory
it organises “production meetings,” in which the
organisation necessary to fulfil the Five-Year Plan is
thrashed out. To secure maximum production the
union organises what is called socialist competition
between the shops. The result of each day’s work
is chalked up. Competitions with sister-factories
are organised; the trust gives substantial prizes to
the winning group. Such prizes may be free trips
to Europe Finally the trade union organises
the shock brigades. These are groups of workers
who pledge themselves to set an example of energy,
enterprise and efficient work. The brigaders are the
driving force of every factory and institution. They
hold special meetings at which plans are worked out
to improve production and efficiency. Statues of
famous shock brigaders adorn the public parks.
All this is the work of the Russian trade
unions—-of trade unions under Communism.
Of those who talk Communism in Aus-
tralia probably 95 per cent, don’t know
what it means and the other 5 per cent,
will not tell the truth about it. So we
have wild talk about soviets of trade unions,
and pictures are drawn of bodies like our
Trades Hall councils in absolute authority.
The reality, we see, is very different. The
Communist trade union, as Russia knows it
—and no other Communistic adventure has
shown even the first gleams of success—is
a body concerned primarily with stimulating
energy and enterprise and promoting effici-
ency. Its chief business is to look after not
the worker but the work—to secure the
maximum production. For the careless, the
indifferent and the inefficient it offers no
re f U ge—except, as stationmaster Bulakov has
discovered, the grave.


James Murphy Bursaries
for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
tenable at either
(a) The University of Sydney
providing all tuition fees (if chargeable) and £7O per annum
towards the cost of residence at St. John’s College
OR
(b) Hawkesbury Agricultural College
providing £4O per annum towards fees, residence, etc.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made
available under the will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient to enable their
sons to study Agricultural Science, and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the
University of Sydney or of entrance to Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later than sth January
1933, m the case of Bursaries tenable at Hawkesbury Agricultural College, and not later than
10th February, 1933, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney) and further
particulars may be obtained from
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Diamond Engagement Mings
£3O
£25
£2O
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE.
!!6 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Governments come and go, but Captain
Dyett remains Commonwealth president of
the Returned Soldiers and Sailors. He was
re-elected at the annual conference for a
14th term. Victoria (his own State), South
Aus. and Westralia wanted Brand; hut N. S.
Wales, Queensland, Tasmania and Canberra
were satisfied with Dyett, and the Canberra
vote prevailed. Dyett is universally re-
garded as a very nice fellow, but a change
from that sort of leadership would be appre-
ciated occasionally, especially if it led to
the Diggers’ organisation taking a firmer
stand against the disintegration of the de-
fences. In any case, it is undemocratic to
let so' small a unit as Canberra decide the
question year after year.
Still the X party in the Vic. Parliament,
though there are three members in the Min-
istry, the Cockies are causing Argyle a lot
of worry, particularly on the reduction of
interest on mortgage renewals. Argyle leads
the “United” Australia party; his uncer-
tain allies call themselves the “United”
Country party. In their relations at the
moment unity is the main thing lacking.
More money is going into city property;
and there is the game sort of ill-advised
hooraying about that as about the abundance
of deposit money and the lowering of
deposit rates. Pact is, money is going into
property and deposits which ought to be
going into industry, and would if taxes were
reduced. For instance, Fieldings, a very suc-
cessful Sydney box-making concern, have, dur-
ing the past 18 months, bought three city
letting properties, putting into shops and
offices about £lOO,OOO, which, if the outlook
was clearer, would be put into works and
plant and stock-in-trade—in other words,
chiefly into wages.
Gullett was not on hand to defend the
Ottawa Agreement when firing began in
the House of Reps. He has had a break-
down and may. not be seen again on the
front bench this year. Porde, his Labor
predecessor, pronounced the agreement “the
greatest political ramp ever put forward on
behalf of British manufacturers,” but the
association of British manufacturers oper-
ating in Australia has morosely declared
it useless to them. In fact, the thing has
been denounced on bewilderingly different
grounds by British and Australian manu-
facturers ; by Liberals, British and Cana-
dian; by. Laborites in Britain, Australia
(two factions) and Maoriland; by the Mel-
bourne “Age” (Protectionist) and the “S.
M. Herald” (Preetrade) ; by the general
manager of the Bank of N. S. Wales and
by demagogues who yearn to “nationalise”
hig concern; by North Americans, Argen-
tines and Russians. Ordinary people, while
prepared by fourteen years of post-war
futilities for disappointments, may conclude
that Gullett and his associates at Ottawa
did a necessary job pretty well.
"Wal, I don t know that I could be very
happy with either.”
Queensland’s Labor Government, with its
majority of three, came perilously close to a
crisis the other day. The Speaker, or who-
ever is responsible, issued an instruction that
members should not be handed the bottle in
the Parliamentary refreshment bar, but
should have their drinks measured. The
uproar from both sides of the House was so
threatening that the order was hastily with-
drawn. In the public refreshment room,
however, measured nips are to be the rule,
visitors to this joint being merely taxpayers.
When the tin-hare report reached Can-
berra Roland Green, M.H.R., put it to the
Attorney-General that Swindell should be
deported. Latham, after looking into the
matter, said it couldn’t be done. But there
are other ways in which the Commonwealth
Government can show this Friend of the
Workers that his room is preferable to his
company, and it is within the power of the
State Government to accelerate his departure.
If it takes the stand that no tin-hare
licenses will issue while Swindell remains
he will go fast enough.
There was ground for Parkhill’s warning
to the Bank of N. S. Wales against “step-
ping into the arena of politics,” and for
Massy Greene’s plainspoken protest against
Stevens’s attitude at the Premiers’ Confer-
ence and the disparaging references to that
conference of his lieutenant; Spooner. Massy
Greene went too far when he accused
Stevens of “trying to. push the: interests of
a trading bank to the detriment of the
“And don’t you take any notice of what
Archie Parkhill or Massy Greene says.”
national institution,” but not when he said
that “the policy of Australia with regard to
currency and exchange lias been committed
by legislation to the charge of the Common-
wealth Bank, j.nd will not be surrendered
to Mr.. Stevens or anyone else.” Nor is
the feeling that Stevens has too vast a regard
for the views of the masterful Davidson, of
the Wales, confined to Canberra Ministers
and members. It exists in his own Caucus,
and had a lot to do with the revolt against
his Moratorium Amendment Bill, which has,
in consequence, been hurriedly redrafted.
Defence Minister Pearce has infuriated
the Westralian secessionists by pointing out
that before they could take their refer-
endum they would have to borrow the where-
withal from the Federal octopus, and that
even if there were a majority for separation
the. British Government would take no notice
of it. They would be annoyed if Lynch or
Colebatch indulged in this sort of talk, but
to have to put up with it from Pearce!
The burning of dole papers ceased sud-
denly in N. S. Wales last week, and the
baffled organisers of the bonfires are making
sarcastic remarks about Lang. He was
expected to put himself at their head, and
deliver a series of passionate attacks on “the
Christian Premier”; but he would have been
tackled on the printed forms his own Gov-
ernment had issued —and called in, as far
as the South Coast was concerned, when the
unemployed kicked up a rumpus there—so
he preferred the seclusion and safety of his
Hawkesbury farm. He was missing also
from the Trades H’all conference at which
the A.L.P. heads strove with the Communists
and the “socialisation” gentry for the con-
trol of the unemployed, though all the
Federal Langsters were on the platform.
Garden, with a glance at the vacant place,
said “Mr. Lang stands out (!) as the
greatest leader Labor ever had.” It’s a
wonder his tongue didn’t burst through his
cheek.
A chapter of the Carroll report on the
payment of secret commissions in the
Queensland dairying industry deals Avith the
price of cream separators. The Commis-
sioner, who is chief inspector in the Land
and Income Tax Office, while satisfied that
the secret commissions were not paid in
respect of separators, “views with astonish-
ment” the difference between the landed cost
and what the farmer has to pay. “In only
one instance,” he says, “is it below 50 per
cent.; in the majority of cases the increase
is between 74.7 per cent, and 96.3 per cent.;
in two cases it is over 100 per cent.” Yet
separators are duty-free, and 15 makes are
sold in Queensland. The Oobdenite theory
is that, with Freetrade and keen competi-
tion, the imported article must be cheap.
Scullin complained the other day that an
Opposition member had given a false impres-
sion of his attitude to Australian manufac-
tures. “To use extracts taken from the
text of a speech and eliminate vital parts is,”
he said, “the worst form of misrepresenta-
tion.” On the very next day the subject of
‘Redheap,” the Australian book he refused
to let Australians read, came up in the
House of Reps. “I didn’t read the whole of it,”
the little gentleman confided, “but Mr. Forde
sent me certain - passages, and they were
sufficient for me—l hadn’t the slightest hesi-
tation in coming to the conclusion that the
book was filthy and oughtn’t to be circu-
lated.” In othei* words, he didn’t scruple to
use extracts taken from the text of a book
and eliminate vital passages (by not reading
them) when dealing with Norman Lindsay.
That was “sufficient” for the judgment that
the book was filthy” and must not be sold.
One N.S.W. gentleman to another in the
House of Reps.:—
I never put the Government to the expense of
taking numerous trips, like you did.
The Government has gone to the expense of
keeping you in gaol, though.
Yes, it grows more like the Sydney Parlia-
ment every day.
Sandringham (Vic.) Council made itself
responsible for half the losses on the Black
Rock-Beaumaris tramway, which was closed
after dropping £20,€00 at the rate of £4OOO
a year. When the Bumbles protested
against being dunned for £lO.OOO, Menzies,
tne Minister ot Railways, told them bluntly
that they were trying to foist their obliga-
tion on the general taxpayer, who hadn’t
asked for the line, and didn’t want it, and
he had no patience with them. Still Sand-
ringham is _ only doing what has become
fashionable in other parts of Vic., in respect
of water rates and land payments as well
as railways.
Two big jobs in the Mandated Territory
will have to be filled before long. Brig.-Gen.
Griffiths went to Rabaul as Administrator
w r heii E. A. Wisdom left, but for health
reasons is unlikely to remain. Nor is it
probable that Chief Judge Wanliss, now on
leave, will return. There is a strong feeling
in New Guinea that younger men are
needed. Wanliss is 68, Griffiths 67 and
Wisdom 63.
There are still three Labor factions in
South Aus.-—Premier Hill’s, the A.L.P.
(which has swallowed the “Lang No'. 2
party”) and Lang’s irreconcilables. The
‘ Worker” supports the A.L.P., but an Adel-
aide contributor gives a gloomy account of
its composition and prospects. For one
thing it is over-supplied with “pork-chop
artists,” job-hunters. T. W. Grealy (Sturt)
excepted, the calibre of the candidates
chosen to run for city seats is disappointing.
One man has been in three political camps in as
many years. Another has been in about four during
a decade. A.L.P. candidates have but a light chance
in Sturt and East Torrens. In North Adelaide and
West Torrens they haven’t a hope. In Barossa the
chance is very poor; in Murray it is hopeless; in
Victoria the organisation has vanished.
All this with a general election due in four
months or so.
“Lionel Hill, Premier of S. Australia, is appealing
to the country to give him a chance, though his
own party has thrown him out and the other doesn’t
want him."
JOHN CIT .: “But I thought you were our
leading jockey?”
HILL: “So I was. But I wouldn’t ride just
like they wanted me to; so here I am
without a mount.”
Two South Aus. Labor Assemblymen,
Nieass (East Torrens) and Jonas (Port
Adelaide), were beaten in the pre-selection
dog-fights. They are members of the fac-
tion that, in obedience to Trades Hall
orders, opposed the Premiers’ Plan, but it
did not avail them against “comrades” with
a stronger pull. Nieass was a civil servant,
and some of his friends are asking bitterly
whether the Trades Hall wants civil-ser-
vice support or whether it has made up its
mind to run a pick-and-shovel party.
What is sauce for the capitalist goose
isn’t always a garnish for the Labor gander.
Holding forth in the Queensland Assembly
on the advantages of perpetual leasehold,
O’Keefe, from Cairns, was asked how it was
he himself had bought a freehold on which
to build a house. He retorted hotly that lie
had to take the freehold or go without, and
the suggestion that he. should apply to have
the tenure converted to leasehold didn’t help
to cool his wrath.
“I admit she doesn’t look respectable, but
Weaver says she is. And, anyhow, the
Government gets its whack, out of every
five bob she makes.”
Vic. employers are to be unpaid agents for
the collection of State income tax from their
staffs till the end of 1933. If the plan
is not continued after that presumably
Ch'enoweth will have been sufficiently primed
to make it difficult for those who ought to
pay to become absent-minded.
As a Queenslander, Mackay, Speaker
of the House of Reps., was perturbed
at the prospect of Fiji competition in
the banana trade, provided for in the
Ottawa agreement. He now announces
himself satisfied with the Ministerial assur-
ance that the quota for Fiji bananas will
not exceed 40,000 centals, and suggests
that the controllers of the industry in
Queensland and N. S. Wales could sell an
additional 40,000 centals, and more, in coun-
try districts if more attention were given
to that market. At the .same time, some-
thing ought to be done to prevent so much
poor stuff being sent to the city.
France and the U.S.A. are alleged to have
agreed to apply economic and financial pres-
sure to Japan, in accordance with the League
Covenant, if that country rejects the Lytton
report, which' suggests that the conqueror of
Manchuria should discuss with the late
owner the future management of the property.
But the only pressure of the kind likely to be
exerted is the Chinese boycott, already in
operation, with the result that business
previously done with Nippon has been
transferred to French, British and Ameri-
can firms and also t 0 local Celestial manu-
facturers.
A good reception has been given in Vic.
Uppish House to a bill submitted by Harold
Cohen, the Assistant Minister of Railways,
dealing with the publication of false and
misleading advertisements. The persons
aimed at are those who sell kapok as eider-
down, catch the unsuspecting with “insol-
vent stock” unassociated with bankruptcy,
and trade in worthless businesses alleged to
bring in £5O a week, and so forth ; and the
penalty may be anything up to £lOO. The
only objection raised was that the measure
doesn’t go far enough.
A Johnny-come-lately named Davies, who
has taken a glorious holiday at N.S.W.’s
expense, is helping to fill Lang’s news-
paper with accounts of the welcome he
received when he returned to Abertillery,
Wales. One exuberant gentleman is re-
ported to have said that Monmouthshire
was “a most illustrious county for produc-
ing geniuses,” Davies being among them.
The alleged genius_ is referred to, though
not by name, in Justice Halse Rogers’s report
on the tin hares. He is “the local member”
who pressed for the granting of a tin-hare
license at Wollongong, concerning which
Mr. Halse Rogers finds that “priority was
given to this application,” and “£lOOO was
paid by Cowdroy to” the American gambler
“Swindell in connection with it.” The
genius was also a member of Cabinet
when, in the granting of tin-hare permits,
“the wishes of Swindell were followed in
almost every case”; when Swindell “paid
over £3OOO for [Labor] party advertising in
December, 1931, and about the same amount
in June, 1932,” and when Swindell “obtained
from various sources £22.000. the bulk in
notes of large denominations,” by represent-
ing himself as “a person specially favored
by the Administration.” But it is improbable
that Davies mentioned tin hares at Aber-
tillery.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Ballyhooley”: For weeks past, it lias
been widely advertised in the dailies that
a frozen lamb would be a fine Christmas
present to send to a friend or relative on the
other side of the world. For £1 2s. 6d. the
SAFETY FIRST.
"How do you mean she surfs single-handed ?"
"She never wears her wedding ring.”
lot, you could have your gift delivered by a
benevolent Government department at any
house in the British Isles. Thousands took
advantage of the offer and the first shipment
of Christmas lambs left Fremantle -801110 three
weeks ago. The terms will be fulfilled all
right with regard to Britain, but the bureau-
cracy left De Valera out of its At
the last moment the Irish Free State
announced that the lambs wouldn’t be
admitted unless 4d. a pound duty was paid on
them —they average 341 b. and exchange has
to be added. “An attempt was made,” official-
dom sadly records, “to secure a rebate on
sentimental grounds, but without success.”
So consignors of Christmas lambs to the
Green Isle have the choice of getting their
money back or being stung for an extra 14s.
* * * =i=
“Binns” : Talking of public hangmen (B.
26/10/’32), John Ellis, the retired English
operator, wlio cut his own throat at Roch-
dale (Lancashire) a few weeks ago. must
have been in a class of his own. Ellis, it
seems, had given every satisfaction to Ms
employers as a Ketch, having held down the
job for 28 years and officiated at over 200
executions, his victims including all sorts
and conditions of men, from Roger Case-
ment to Crippen, and two or three women.
Yet he is described as a small, gentle-voiced
man with the kindest of. hearts and the
most sensitive of dispositions—he couldn t
even bear to kill a fowl for his Sunday
dinner and always delegated that unpleasant
duty to some other member of his family.
He drew £lO a time for his professional
engagements, but even at that be refused
to consider it a whole-time job, so he ran
a hairdressing business as well. As his
identity was perfectly well-known, it says
something for the nerve of the Rochdale
citizens who could sit in that barber’s
chair unperturbed.
5-C *«*
“Bert the Carpenter’’:
When I last had my hair
cut I was preceded by a
woman, and Snips seemed
at a loss for subjects to dis-
cuss with her. This led to
my asking him, when my
turn came, what topics he
chose when he had a parson
in the chair. After think-
ing hard, he said “I don’t
remember ever cutting a
parson’s hair.” His mate,
on being appealed to,
admitted that he hadn’t
either, and called the pro-
prietor of the shop into the
discussion. The boss said
that he had never had a
minister in for a haircut
during all the years he had
been in business, and cynic-
ally ventured that when, a
parson did require tonsorial
attention he doffed his cleri- t
cal garb lest it should pre-
vent his getting the latest
racing information. Since
then I have asked every man I know if he
has ever seen or heard of a minister in a
barber’s shop, and not one has.
❖ * *
“D.G.”: Apropos the inane folk who
regretted that the Prince didn’t use "the
accent of his class’’ (meaning their class),
referred to by “Savile Row” (B. 2/11/ 32),
I was in St. James’s-street one afternoon
when George V. passed. A typical female
product of Balham (of it might have been
Golders Green) leant towards her friend.
“What strikes me most about the King,
she oozed fatly, “is that he always looks a
gentleman.”
“Whitehall”: According to a Dublin
cable:—•
Persons seen reading the “Evening Telegraph,
the De Valera organ, were assaulted in the streets,
delivery vans were attacked, and newsboys threw
bundles of the paper into the river Liffey, in addi-
tion to tearing up many others.
It emphasises the respect paid by the Irish to
the printed word. When I was last in Dublin
the inhabitants were destroying every copy
of the “News of the W’orld” (known locally
as the “Smut of the World”) that they
could lay their hands on. The objections to
Lord Riddell’s Sabbath sheet were not poli-
tical but moral. Scratch the cheeriest /Mib-
lin sportsman and you are always liable
to find a wowser, as well as a political fana-
tic. The English, on the other hand,
have a contempt for both the printed
and the spoken word. That is why Soho
was an asylum for all Europe’s craziest
propagandists of revolution, from Marx
downwards, for many generations; and it
accounts for the fact that practically any-
thing can be advocated by foreigners who
spout on Sundays in Hyde Park under the
protection of the police. Not that they need
mueli protection, except from members of
rival groups. Your true Londoner wouldn’t
waste a match on one of the pamphlets they
distribute. He regards them as harmless
comedians. ... ...
“C.Q.”: A Melbourne suburban council
has declared a vendetta against stray cats.
It is estimated by maddened ratepayers that
the ownerless feline population has risen to
3,000,000 in the metropolitan area alone.
I recently found that four of the 3,000,000
were subsisting on my bounty, and I put the
three most depraved examples in a stout
sack, weighted it well, firmly secured it and
cast the package into the Yarra. Next morn-
ing when I went out for the. milk two of my
presumed victims were waiting on the door-
step. I put them in a stouter sack,
weighted it more heavily, tied it more
firmly than ever and threw it into a deeper
part of the river. Next morning when I
brought in the tea my wife turned pale
and her glazed eye fixed on a point
behind me told me that something terrible
was happening. One of the drowned cats
was following me through the doorway. In
despair we consulted a neighbor, who told us
about the S.P.C.A. I rang up that insti-
tution, and within half an hour a glittering
ambulance stood outside my door and two
uniformed officials with full anaesthetising
apparatus disembarked, AVithin five minutes
the cat had joined its ancestors., the uni-
forms and the equipage bad vanished from
the street and I was , left reflecting oil the
superiority of Australian civilisation over
Asiatic barbarism, as exemplified by the
Turkish habit of transporting the stray
dogs of Constantinople to a desert island
and leaving them to live on each other.
THE MORE-WOOL CAMPAIGN.
BARBARA: “And he told us the gates of Heaven are pearl”
VIVIE: "You’d have thought it would be easier to knit them plain, wouldn't you?"
“D.”: Curious the attractions bridges
have for the demented, and for those who are
merely inane or mischievous. The London
bridges have been resorted to by suicides tor
centuries. Imbeciles have visited them weekly
adown the ages with the object of spitting
on to the boats and barges that pass under-
neath all day and night. A. P. Herbert
writes periodical diatribes against the prac-
tice —he has a sailing-boat and has suffered
from it more than once—and before his day
F. €. Burnand, Pett Ridge and other good
Londoners tried unavailingly to get it
stopped. Thirteen people have jumped oft the
Sydney Bridge to date, and last week the
equivalents of the London spitters got to
work. Half a dozen iron bolts landed
on or near a passing steamer; any
of, them might have been fatal if it had
hit one of those on board. The remarkable
thing is that half-wits and others should go
out of their way to use bridges for such
purposes. There are thousands of buildings
and other high places in every great city
which are ideally suited for suicide or for
dropping missiles or spitting from. Why
are they shunned in favor of remote bridges,
which are guarded and are otherwise un-
suitable for the purposes to which they arc
put’ Two of Sydney’s 13 would-be self-
slayers failed to bring it off; the proportion
of those rescued from the Thames is said to
be three out of five.
“Overdrawn”: One
of the queerest aspects
of human nature is the
tendency to forget bank
balances —• the credit
variety, of course. Once
on a time the Austra-
lian hanks made a
pretty profit by pouch-
ing unclaimed deposits,
but nowadays these
have to be held for a
stated time and then
handed over to the
Government concerned.
The .Commonwealth
Savings Bank has this
year paid over £5OOO
into the special “deposi-
tors’ unclaimed fund.”
One could understand
amounts of a few shil-
lings being overlooked
or ignored, but one
Perth woman has left
£1253 untouched for
years, and an Italian’s
balance was £917. Tin:
total represents the sav-
ings of 1600 people,
who cannot all have
died or been mysteri-
ously spirited away.
A great proportion of
the account-holders are women, but
what can be said of the Institute ot
Accountants of. Central Queensland? One
would have thought a credit account the last
thing to be forgotten by professional
accountants, but there is a mattei ot xllo
waiting for that lot.
“Farleigh”: The Royal Family revives old
titles for its younger sons rather than create
new ones. Accordingly we have a Duke of
York and a Duke of Gloucester, and King
George’s youngest hopeful, it was announced
the other day, is to be Duke either ot
Kent or Sussex— possibly the choice is lift
to himself. York and Kent and Sussex
were all counties utilised by George 111.,
along with others, for the ennoblement of his
numerous progeny, and one of ms daughters
married a Duke of Gloucester incidentally
all these titles are commemorated m streets
that date back to the beginnings of Sydney.
In that case every peerage died with the
holder which makes them look bit un-
lucky. Victoria went further ahela iw her
family dukedoms, complimenting Edinburgh
and Connaught, and resuscitating Albany.
Edward VII. picked Clarence, William IV.’s
pre-kingly title, for Ms eldest son, who died
in his twenties. . .
“Jeames” : Of all the idiotic extravagances
which characterised the Bruce-Page regime
I class the leasing of that London mansion
in Ennismore Gardens for our High Corn-
Hiissioners as the worst. No. High Commis-
sioner lias possessed any private means to
speak of. The salary at the time the
house was secured was £2250, plus a small
entertainment allowance — i.e., the sort ol
income possessed by family men who inhabit
cheapish outer suburbs like Croydon and
Purley. Ennismore Gardens 'are in a £IO,OW*
a-year family’s quarter. The five-storey
home, with its 20 rooms, sound-proof study,
bath on every floor and electric lift, is
palatial even for that luxurious part of the
town. It needs a dozen servants to run
it properly at an average of at least £2 eacu
per week in wages, food and perks; t.e,,
considerably more than half their master s
official income. And the zanies at Can-
berra paid £6OOO merely for the privilege of
leas-ing the place for 21 years, the big
annual rent not being included m this sum .
No better proof of its unwieldiness can bo
given than the fact that Bruce has
thought fit to lock up an entire floor, and
run the white elephant with a butler, cook
and three maids.
“Shep.” : I never heard of a Digger fos-
sicking on battlefields for disused false teeth
(B. 2/11/’32), but we weren t so fickle
about wearing discarded clothing. At: every
stunt badly-hit men shed a lot ot their
clothes at the main dressing-stations, otten
they left there in pyjamas or merely covered
by a blanket, their discards piling up out-
side. Well-broken-in boots were quickly
snapped up: so were good puttees, lumcs
and breeches, however, were mostly cut ott
patients. There was a superstition that
clothes or gear taken from one of our own
dead would bring the wearer bad lack .but
there was no compunction about helping
yourself from the dressing-stationjunk-
heaps, for the previous owner was ceitainiy
alive when he parted with them.
“Whitehall” : Judging by “Le Glorieux’s”
par (B 26/10/’32), in which my statement
about moonlight steeplechasing being- impos-
sible in the congested south of England is
described as “ridiculous” he doesn't know
what steeplechasing is. He mentions a good
Queensland bushman who got mst ™
lock (which isn’t in the congested south but
in the open moorland country of the west),
and says he has himself ridden as much as
20 miles in that part of the world without
meeting any obstruction.” In other words,
he didn’t do any steeplechasing, the meaning
of which is (vide any dictionary) riding
over obstructions.” His argument seems to
be that because it is possible to canter across
country by night in some parts of the west
of England (a fact I knew already, having
often been out with the Devon and Somer-
set) 1 was wrong in saying that one couldn t
ride’across country after dark in southern
counties like Kent and Surrey. Which, to
borrow his phrase, is ridiculous. I*y tin
wav, I don’t blame that busliman tor getting
lost near Porlock, but I’ll wager he didn
do it while riding across country. The
immediate neighborhood of the village is
intensively farmed and fenced, and it is so
hilly as to be almost impassable on horse-
back except by road. Porlock Hill has stuck
up as many motorists as any in England.
“Homfrey Beale” : “Hotham” (B. 2/11 /’32)
says the term “Digger” was never used in the
earlv days of the w r ar. I heard it ia
Blackboy Hill camp (W.A.) in June, 10.
and when I hit Suez in October of that
year as a reinforcement of the 12th it
was quite common among the troops m
Zeitoun and adjacent camps. When we
joined the Originals at Tel-el-Kebir a little
later it was almost universal. I suggest
that it had its genesis in some unit largely
composed of miners and prospectors from
the West. “Digger” was a quite common
form of address in the early days of tin
Westralian goldfields.
“Bumpkin”: A recent competition for the
best model of Nelson’s Victory, sponsored
bv the “Argus,” revealed, the tact that \ ic
toria is full of budding naval architects, and
some of the best of them came from inland
One lad. Jack Surman, aged 14, who hailed
from Horsham, in the Wimmera, sent his
effort along with a letter stating that he
had never seen a sailing vessel, or indeed,
a ship of any kind. The Adelaide S. S. Co.
promptly offered the lad a free return trip
to Sydney in the Manunda.
VANISHED EVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Famous British artists are joining in a chorus
of complaint that there are no modern women with
figures like Eve.”— Cable.
Where have they gone and whither been
deported—
For gone they have, it’s singularly clear—
Tlic bouncing maids our dads and grand-dads
courted ?
The comely, buxom Eves of yesteryear?
Time was in paint and marble we enshrined
them,
And poets hymned their charms in death-
less verse;
Now sculptors moan because they cannot find
them
And baffled artists curse.
They rail at dress designs and slimming
crazes,
They rain anathemas on Hollywood;
Flat chests, thin flanks, they’d send to
blithering blazes,
And ultra-sinuous figures, an they could.
Their quest, their futile cry, is for a Juno
With curves and contours made to fill the
eye.
But where are ox-eyed Heras gone? Do you
know ?
No —and no more do I.
Once clothes were made to fit the frames
inside them,
From full-blown roses down to blushing
buds;
But now, when on the glittering screens
they slide them,
It looks the woman lias to fit the duds.
And in a modern filmland beauty bevy,
If Milo’s Venus chanced to be about,
I'll say they’d reckon her a bit too heavy
And promptly bump her out.
Where will you dig her up, a modern madam
Built on the pattern of the fig-leaved belle
Who romped through Eden glades, and
tempted Adam
With that forbidden apple till he fell?
Say, had she been a mere eight stone or
under,
A sort of Greta Garbo, snaky-slight,
Would he have proved less pliable, I wonder.
I rather think he might.
Where has she gone? Well, temp ora
iMI ill ’fft'i't
And tastes as’ well in female forms divine,
Her place is taken by a new enchanter,
As lithe and slender as a columbine.
Only the sculptor throws her no hosannas,
And in his studio the artist grieves
Over the lost Ephesian Dianas,
The non-existent Eves.
x.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Mells”: In the Sydney Divorce Court
a slip of paper was handed by the associate
to his Honor, who “put on his spectacles,
read it carefully and smiled.” It was the
result of the Melbourne Cup. A somewhat
similar incident occurred when Jabez Balfour,
mentioned in several recent Bulletin para-
graphs, was being tried in London in 1895. A
Test match was in progress in Australia and
interest therein,' even in those days, was at
fever heat. A telegram containing the
latest scores somehow found its way to the
Bench, and the Judge, after a hurried glance,
obligingly sent it down to the learned
gentlemen at the Bar table. Everyone knew
what it was and was speculating about its
contents when the man in the dock was
observed to be desperately signalling his
counsel, Jabez, who was a bit of a sports-
A GOOD MARGIN.
"No, I never said he was conceited. I
merely said that if I could buy him at
my price and sell him at his own I’d
make a jolly good profit.”
man, wanted to have a look at it, too—and
he was accommodated. After this very
human interlude, the law resumed its majesty
and the trial continued.
* * * *
“O. de V.”: The reason for that skipper’s
child of 29 months sailing as “assistant
stewardess” (B. 26/10/’32) goes farther
back than American immigration laws. The
Board of Trade has laid it down that
merchant ships may not carry passengers
unless specially registered ; so the skipper of
a tramp who wants relatives or friends with
him must put such down on the ship’s
articles as members of the crew. For
example, novelist Dale Collins and his wife
travelled to Australia as “steward” and
“stewardess,” although their official duties
were doubtless as nominal as their salaries.
I myself have been signed on variously as
purser, ship’s doctor, fourth engineer and
steward at Is. per month (which I never
remember collecting). The first entry in
my “book” is cabin-boy, and the date shows
I was 18 months old.
“Pomegranate”: Methinks “Jeames” was
holding his head a little too high when he
criticised the truth of “Frail Women” (B.
2/11/’32). The England of clubdom and
“The Countryman” may look tolerantly
upon illegitimacy, but the old middle-class
still regards it with all the shocked horror
of Jane Austen’s day. The actress who
PLAYED HER CARDS
WELL.
“I believe he married her just because she
played a wonderful game of bridge.”
“I see—wanted her hand in marriage, eh?”
took the part of the erring mother in the
“Frail Women” film later showed with
touching realism the feelings of such a
woman as she realised how far she had
fallen from the respectability of her former
class. Far from being a producer’s bloomer
that was the soundest thing in the film—
to us middle-classers. Clubdom is only a
tiny part of England.
sis * * _ Sis
“Ach”: I don’t know why “Quaigh’s”
feelings should be lacerated because Aussie
lassies wear the kilt and plaid at Aus-
tralian Highland gatherings (B. 26/10/’32).
It is a common sight at all Highland games
in Scotland for women to wear the plilia-
beg. I have seen it and can show him
photos, to prove it.
# * sis sis
“Lord Luvus”: Vic. Minister for Susten-
ance Kent Hughes told a women’s confer-
ence the other day that when a meeting of
parents to protest against the rais-
ing of fees was held at one of Mel-
bourne’s biggest Government high
schools, the huge school oval could
scarcely accommodate the cars.
This recalls the historic occasion
when a Minister for Lands went
to the Murray to hear the settlers
vent financial grievances. Just
before the Minister arrived the
maiii street was packed with auto-
mobiles, but when he stepped into
the town only a few were to be
seen. Fearing that the eyes of the
Government’s repi-esentative might
be injured by their
gutter, the agricultur-
ists had had the rest
parked up side lanes.
* *
“M. M. E.” : The
youngsters of to-day
are surely to be par-
doned if they fail to
be impressed with
tales of the prowess of
Christopher Columbus
and Yasco da Gama.
I teach school in the
little town of Wynd-
lxam, Westralia’s most
northerly port, and
last aerial mail day I
sent one of my pupils
to collect my letters.
He came back full of
excitement. “If you
want to’ see an Ameri-
can ’plan e, Miss,
there’ll be one in at
4 o’clock. It’s hop-
ping over from Adel-
aide after lunch!” If.
he had substituted
“breakfast” for
“1 unc h” he would
have been within the mark: “The Spirit of
Fun” delivered a copy 0 f the Adelaide morn-
ing paper here that same afternoon.
❖ ❖
“Rouge Dragon”: Neither the bar sinister
(B. 2/11/’32) nor the bend sinister is the
accepted mark of illegitimacy on armorial
bearings, although both are frequently
accepted as such. In the early days of
heraldry several devices were employed to
indicate bastardy, as the old heralds pre-
ferred to call it; as a rule, they took the
form of reversing the tinctures, etc., of the
paternal arms, with the usual cadency mark
indicating the standing of the bearer — i.e.,
first, second or third son. About the time
of Edward 11. the English heralds adopted
from France the baton sinister, which has
since then been the recognised mark on
arms assumed by offspring of the left hand.
The descendants of Charles 11., referred to
by “Jeames,” bear their ancestor’s arms
with the baton, a bordure being added. Wil-
liam IV.’s equally numerous by-blows have
the baton only imposed.
■** * *
“Kerys”: These tales by British and
American novelists in which the beautiful
young heroine incurs the wrath of her family
by being arrested in a night club strike
me as overdrawn. Certainly nothing of
the kind ever happens here. Witness the
last raid on the Shifty-Shifty. There
wasn’t anyone there, accoi’ding to the names
in next day’s papers, of whom anybody had
ever heard before; all the lads were plumbers
or bakers or bottle-olis, and the lasses all
eai-ned a crust at domestic work. Stay,
there was one exception. A city firm em-
ploys a young man whose blameless life has
long been a model for his fellow-workers.
His name appeared in the list of guests at
the Shifty-Shifty with occupation and
firm complete. Had he not been able to
convince the heads that it was his night at
the local Band of Hope it might have gone
badly for him. So far the humorist who
impersonated him remains unearthed.
“Manitou Pewebic”: David Baird (B.
19/10/’32) was not confined in the Black
Hole of Calcutta. He did not arrive in India
until 1779, 23 years after the Black Hole
episode. He was taken prisoner near Madras
in 1780 when Baillie’s force was destroyed
by Hyder Ali, of Mysore, who' chained Baird
by the leg to a fellow-captive. Thence he was
taken to Seringapatam, and confined in one of
its dungeons for three and a half years until
released by treaty. He had his revenge
when he led the successful attack upon
Seringapatam in 1799. The irascible Scot-
tish general, by the way, was senior member
of the court-martial which tried Colonel
Johnstone, of the old New South Wales
Corps, in 1811 for his action in deposing
Bligh.
a: * :|:
“Cato”: Touching beards (B. 2/11/’32),
there is some curious information in Haydn’s
“Dictionary of Dates.” Among the great
nations of old the Egyptians wore them for
centuries and the Assyrians as rigidly
eschewed them. The Jews have always
favored beards; so did the early Romans,
but they went out before the Christian era.
Beards had little vogue in England for 200
years after the Conquest; then they became
fashionable and flourished, more or less, up
to the Restoration. That was their longest
spin—close on four centuries. Modern
modes in these matters rarely seem to out-
last a generation. After the clean-shaven
eighteenth century came the whiskered
period; the beard reappeared about 1850,
but in 30 years it was on the wane again.
The moustache period lasted hardly as long.
“Old Q.”: An alleged attempt to double-
cross the Golden Casket lottery has led the
controllers to abolish
the old barrel-and-
marble method and
adopt a machine
which is claimed to be
both fool- and rogue-
proof. Mostly made
of glass, it contains
numbered discs in-
stead of marbles, and
numerous glass win-
dows show the con-
tents being mixed
when the handle is
turned. When the
rotation stops, the
numbered discs fall
into slots, each behind
its own little window,
and the numbers can
be read off. Once the
discs are in the
machine they are un-
touchable. The
machine arranges the
number sequences
itself, and it is
asserted by the in-
ventor that there is
no possibility of the
same number being repeated, no' matter how
numerous the drawings.
: i : :\i ;!;
“Jurumudi”: The hoarding of gold and
precious stones (B. 26/10/’32) always occurs
in countries where credit facilities are un-
available or not understood. In Java the
peasant invests his earnings in jewellery and
foreign coin and deposits them on the persons
of his family. Farmers on festival days lead
round children loaded with trinkets, and their
wives fasten their blouses with buttons made
of half-sovereigns bright from the London
Mint. It took 25 years before, the Govern-
ment savings banks had any appreciable
effect on this peripatetic hoard. In the
reign of Michael the Drunkard (a.d. 842-867)
there was an immense accumulation of
specie in the coffers of the Byzantine State
It was estimated at 109,000 pounds of gold
and 300,000 pounds of silver, besides vast
quantities of jewels and plate. This made
Constantinople a grand city to loot, and
most of the wealth, instead of being used to
stimulate industry, was expended in keeping
off the Saracens, Bulgarians and other free-
booters who had heard of it. The Americans
might learn a lot from the history of ancient
Byzantium. It is true that bandits and
pifates do not raid Washington and New
York but the flight of debtor countries from
gold amounts to the same thing.
* * * *
“Croweater”: I see (B. 2/11/’32) that
South Aus. is to celebrate its centenary in
four years’ time, and presumably the focal
centre of the junketing will be the gum-tree
at Glenelg where the colony is alleged to
have been proclaimed, and where the annual
commemoration is performed. I hate to
spike a popular superstition, especially when
it is a picturesque one, but a passion for his-
torical accuracy impels me to point out that
my great-grandmother, from whom I pre-
sumably acquired my love of truth, declared
25 years after the founding that the tree
then in use was not the true original, which
had disappeared a few years afterwards, hav-
ing been chopped up by unpatriotic citizens
for firewood. She was present at the pro-
clamation, the family tent being pitched near
by, and she remembered the tree, a particu-
larly straight one. When the colony became
sufficiently important to justify an annual
celebration popular fancy had already
fastened on the curious bent giant of the once
dense forest as the correct location, and since
it has received the benediction of authority
its claim is likely to remain unshaken tiil
Doomsday. None the less it is a substitute.
* * 4 *
“Lao-dah”: If it is true that the Jap-
anese handed over £lO,OOO to Manchurian
bandits for the release of those two Britons
(B. 2/11/’32), no foreign devil will be safe
without a police guard. Banditry in China is
usually a side-line. Peasants engage in it when
the fields have been ploughed and planted
or the crops garnered in, and regular sol-
diers indulge in kidnapping when there is
no war on or pay is in arrears. But with
prizes like this in the offing the Celestial
Ned Kelly has every inducement to become
a professional. It is significant that a couple
of days after the Britons were delivered up
bandits grabbed another foreigner and de-
manded 200,000 yen (£20,000) for him.
* * * *
“ Jeames” : From the “S. M. Herald”:—
Mr. Housrnan adheres to the report that Prince
Albert was not the son of his presumptive father, an
alleged disclosure which is said to have caused Lord
Melbourne to withdraw his objection to a marriage
with the scion of a line with a bad heredity.
That a paper as furiously loyal as the
Hunter-street veteran should repeat this
yarn without a tremor, much less an indig-
nant rebuttal, is an indication of how times
have changed since the war.
s|s * *
“Bumpkin”: I went to the Cup, and it
struck me that horseracing is a very conser-
vative institution, considering that this is an
age of mechanisation. A number of horses,
closely resembling skinned rabbits, ambled
past me with small boys or men on top
bound for a distant destination. When they
had got so far away as to be out of earshot
and indistinguishable to normal eyesight they
assembled in a clump, and after a brief
delay there was a mighty shout of “They’re
off.” A number of colored dots', began to
move slowly along a line of white rails
nearly a mile away. The mantle of prophecy
immediately descended on fellow racegoers in
my vicinity and they began to announce the
leading horse, or the horse that was over-
taking the leader, in loud and authoritative
accents, but as each had a different opinion
I could only come to the conclusion that
their prophetic utterances were merely wish-
fulfilment. The dots began to assume the
appearance of moving faster as they got
nearer, but they were still a shifting
kaleidoscope of color, and when they turned
into the straight they became even more un-
intelligible. A few seconds later they were
in front of the stands and the changes in
FRIENDLY ADVICE.
“Darling, if I have lost my money, I still
have you, haven’t It”
“Yes, but you better find some more or
you’ll soon have nothing.”
the pattern began to assume more signifi-
cance ; but a couple of seconds later it was
all over. For future Cups there ought to be
a revolving platform in front of the stands,
on the lines of the escalator at the new
Manchester Unity building in Collins-street.
Then everybody would be able to see the
true situation from start to finish. Bland
H'olt used the device successfully years ago
when he staged his racing dramas. On one
occasion the leading horse fell down, but it
continued to win amidst the plaudits of the
audience, the revolving platform not being
powerful enough to remove it from the front
position. To avoid this in a real race a
1 fallen horse could be scraped off or counted
out or something.
BALLADE OF A BARE CUPBOARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Replying to attacks on the Government’s inade-
quate defence policy, Defence Minister Pearce plain-
tively asked ‘Where are we to get the money V ”
Money for seven Parliaments, no less,
Commissions infinite and boards in scores:
Money quant, stiff., through session and
recess,
To keep the wolf from politicians’ doors —
Six hundred-odd of them within our
shores;
Money for cv’ry sort of conference
That avenues for raising more explores.
But where’ll we find the money for Defence?
Money for easing economic stress —
This way and that in bonuses it pours;
Money for doles, legitimate largesse;
Taxation grim necessity deplores
(The payer, too) the higher that it soars,
To render unemployment less intense,
And still importunate Depi-ession’s roars.
What hope to earmark any for Defence?
Money for Lotteries and Caskets —yes;
For backing horses, too, in endless stores;
For hares of tin, in generous excess;
For probing swindles to their rotten cores,
And sorting out the crooks by threes and
fours,
No honest Government would grudge
expense.
With pressing calls like these that none
ignores
How can we raise the needful for Defence?
Pearce, here’s a query goes to your address:
Come, where’s the justice in it, where’s
the sense?
Why should your job be paid in good £ s.
Seeing there isn’t any for Defence?
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


‘yfie dipstick, Ml praise it.....
Drain your crankcase and refill with SHELL OIL.
The Dipstick will prove its Greater Mileage and
Economy .... Start testing today.
m
k
Mviv it
SHELL OIL
is better
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Rev. C. T. Parkinson, who is to be
The King’s next headmaster, is a Maon-
lander by birth —his predecessor, by the
way, was born in New Jersey (U.S.A.).
Oxford equipped them both . educationally;
Baker was at Keble and Parkinson at Christ
Church. The new head is 45, the same age
as the retiring one when his rule at King’s
began. Parkinson served in the war, first
as chaplain, later as a lieutenant of artil-
lery. His English schoolmastering began
at Giggleswick, a very old Yorkshire school,
and was continued at Christ’s Hospital
(Bluecoats), where he was chaplain and
senior housemaster.
Baronet Hugh O’Neill, first Speaker of the
Parliament of Northern Ireland,. now. a
member of the British Commons, is letting
representative folk have a look at him while
visiting Australia. He dropped into the Vic.
Legislative Assembly and sat beside Pea-
cock, whose wife has Ulster connections.
Next he had dinner with Acting-Gov. Irvine,
who was born in the village of. Kilevy.
Newry. The City Council had him as a
spectator from the Lud Mayor’s dais, and
.some of the old hands wished that Cabena
had lived long enough to join in the welcome.
A. C. Davidson, the man who has been
almost entirely responsible for the Bank of
N. S. Wales becoming a very active political
agent—it was the bank to which Parkhill
delivered a serious warning in the House of
Reps, the other night—reached the general
manager’s chair less than five years ago,
since when he has been a tremendous and
growing force. He has a most compelling
way with him, and the manner in which he
lias got first one and then the other under
liis influence —including politicians, news-
paper editors and professional economists —
commands admiration, if it also calls for
General-Manager DAVIDSON, of the
Wales.
some anxiety. One of his chief lieutenants
is Shann, formerly Professor of Economics
at Perth, where Davidson was general man-
ager of the Bank of Western Australia—
now amalgamated with the 8.N.5.W.; and
that amalgamation is largely due to his
driving force too. He brought Shann. from
Perth to the bank staff, and sent him to
Ottawa to stand by during the conference.
Before joining the Western Australian Bank
Davidson was in the 8.N.5.W.; in fact, he
was born in the bank. His father was man-
ager at Brisbane.
The Bulletin’s old friend Fred Johns,
Australia’s leading biographer, has admitted
at last the ill-health pluckily battled with
for years, and gone into hospital in Adel-
aide on “indefinite leave” from Parliamen-
tary duties. Since leaving the “Register,”
nearly 19 years ago, to become chief of S.A.
“Hansard” staff, Johns has never missed a
sitting while the Assembly has been in
session.
The new Dean of Adelaide is a year older
than his bishop, Nutter Thomas, who is 63.
They are both Englishmen, though Jose, the
Dean, has been away from Bristol, where
he was born, ever since a lad. When
he came first to Australia he was a very
young surveyor ; next he went to China as
a lay missionary; then, in middle-age, he
went to Oxford and took his M.A. (inciden-
Dean JOSE, of Adelaide.
tally astonishing Oxford by his Chinese
scholarship) ; later he came back to S.
Australia, and a few years ago succeeded
Archdeacon Moyes when the latter began
bishing at Armidale (N.S.W.). He and
1933 will start on their new jobs together.
P. R. T. Wills, Inspecting Superinten-
dent of the Queensland railways, who has
been appointed General Manager of the
Central Division, entered the service in
1898, and has worked his way steadily up
the ladder. A Rockhampton native, he is
now returning as head of the division where
he started on the bottom rung.
Westralian Arbitration Court President
Dwyer, who is engaged in a wordy dispute
with Attorney-General Davy, has been tartly
reminding his opponent that he “accepted his
Judgeship at a monetary sacrifice” when the
A.-G. was “only a promising junior, who
profited by the departure of those who would
otherwise have been his competitors”—in-
cluding presumably the Judge himself.
Which recalls that Dwyer was regarded as
a promising politician and a probable Labor
A.-G. of the future when he was swept into
Parliament on the biggest Labor wave the
West has ever known, that of 1911. But he
was dispossessed of the Perth seat by J. D.
Connolly, afterwards Agent-General, in
1914, and the Assembly knew him no more.
Leonard Monk Isitt, ex-Methodist min-
ister, ex-prohibition lecturer, 'ex-M.P., is
retiring from M.L.’s Upper House. He had
an Empire-wide reputation as a temperance
platform man. Isitt stepped into the Christ-
church North seat in 1911 on the death of
his close friend T. E. Taylor, also a doughty
cold-water protagonist; he held the seat till
he was elevated to the Legislative Council
by Coates in 1925.
R. A. Dart, one of South Africa’s most
distinguished scientists —he has been Profes-
sor of Anatomy at the University of Wit-
watersrand since 1923 —is a Queenslander.
He was born at Toowong (Brisbane) 40
years ago, graduated in science and medicine
at Sydney Uni., and was house surgeon at
the Royal Prince Alfred until he left Aus-
tralia as a captain in the A.A.M.C. An
anthropologist of world-wide note, he is
perhaps best known in connection with the
discovery of the famous Taungs skull. The
professor has never abandoned military
work, and was recently promoted to the rank
of lieut.-colonel and command of the Ist
Field Ambulance (Transvaal) S.A.M.C.
No lawyer stood higher in professional
esteem or private regard than John Sydney
Cargill, who passed out in Sydney last week
at 63. The son of Captain William Cargill,
he took his degree at Sydney Uni., was
admitted 40 years ago, and after some years
in the Crown Solicitor’s office was appointed
Solicitor of Railways, a position in which
he gave the State good service until his
retirement a few years back. There. were
numerous tributes paid to him by his old
colleagues, legal and departmental.
Sailed on his last voyage from Port Adel-
aide, Patrick Weir, harbor-master there for
years and previously commander of the Gov-
ernor Musgrave, S.A.’s patrol-ship. He went
with the little worship Protector to China
for the Boxer campaign, and to Cocos
long after, to see if anything of the Emden
was worth salvage. A skilled mathemati-
cian, he was an examiner for the Board of
Trade, and had at least one gadget adopted
for use by the Admiralty.
Colonel H. W. Lee, dead at 64, was
for 40 years in the Queensland Education
Department. A keen civilian soldier, he was
colo'nel of the Moreton Regiment in 1914,
and left Queensland in command of the 4tli
Battalion, A.I.F. He was at the Landing,
and took part in the subsequent operations
on Gallipoli, finishing up with six months in
the London and Malta hospitals before being
invalided home.
John Ford Paterson, who was the father
of Betty and Esther, left, besides, an un-
usual collection of pictures; and after 20
years the family is holding a memorial
■exhibition of his work —to be opened in
Melbourne on the 10th. A reproduction of
some of the good stories told about the
genial wit would be as popular as the show
of his pictures. Once a Philistine, butting
in on John Ford P. and a friend having
a quiet drink and a serious talk, unloosed
a collection of bedtime stories. “Strange
how badly some men’s minds are out of
drawing,” said John Ford P. when the
butter-in had left. Max Meldrum tells the
yarn of a great decision to be made between
coffee and whisky. Paterson deliberated
solemnly for a few moments and then said
to his host, “I’ll liae whisky. We’ve plenty
l>f coffee at hame.”
After growing flowers and trees and things
on Vic. railway property for 27 years,
George Allen, Harold Clapp’s landscape
gardener, is calling it a day. Imported from
England, he designed the beautiful Dayles-
ford gardens, and then linked up with the
Vic. railways at the special invitation of
Commissioner Tait. He established a rail-
way nursery, has been sole judge in the
annual station gardens competitions for
years past, and has made rubbish-tips, work-
shop dumps and rusty railway cuttings blos-
som like the rose.
Ernest John Robert Cumming, M.L. Com-
missioner of Taxes, has spent 35 of his 54
years in the service of the Taxation Depart-
ment. ITe found the ladder to promotion in
the study of accountancy, in which he is
highly qualified. His first big upward step
came in 1912, when he was appointed
inspector, becoming chief clerk in 1917,
deputy-commissioner in 1925, and commis-
E. J. R. CUMMING, Maoriland’s
Commissioner of Taxes.
sioner four years ago. His “Land and
Income Tax Law and Practice,” published
in 1919, is still regarded as a very useful
textbook. Cumming is a man of serious
tastes, and in earlier years was a local
preacher, officiating in various Methodist
churches in Wellington, where he was born,
and where he has spent all save three years
of his life.
Died in London last week at 72, Frederick
George Sargood, eldest son of the knight who
was a captain of industry and a fairly pro-
minent politician in Melbourne right up to
his death in 1903, when he had a seat in the
Reps. The knight’s father founded the soft-
goods firm, which afterwards extended opera-
tions to Sydney and finally amalgamated
with Gardiner and Co., and F. G. Sargood
joined it after leaving Wesley College. He
was a keen worker for the Red Cross and
other philanthropic movements in the war
years.
Mat Kilpatrick, the tall, rawboned and
grizzled C.P. Whip in the N. S. Wales Leg.
Assembly, gets all the exercise he needs
these days. The Macquarie-street shop
contains more Cockies than at any previ-
ous time —nearly half of them are new-
comers—and Mat finds it a job to round
MAT KILPATRICK, M.L.A. for Wagga
(N.S.W.), and Country-party Whip.
’em up. Kilpatrick arrived in December,
1920, as one of the three reps, from Murray
when G. S. Beeby was appointed to the
Industrial Court Bench. On the reversion
to single scats in 1927, Kilpatrick won
Wagga, which has returned him with com-
fortable majorities ever since. He has lived
all his life on the land, and is liked by
all sections.
A big licht in the Presbyterian and schol-
astic world of Dunedin was the Rev. Francis
Dunlop, dead at 56. He had been Professor
of Mental and Moral Science at Otago Uni.
since 1913. His father, Dr. John Dunlop,
filled the chair of Systematic Theology in
the Theological College, Dunedin. Professor
Dunlop finished his education at Jena
(Germany) under Prof. Rudolph Euclien.
In 1910 he succeeded Dr. Clouston at the
Glebe church, Sydney, which he forsook for
the Otago post.
Joseph Paranis, who arrived in Brisbane
the other day to take over the editorship
of the “Voice of Malta in Australia,” is a
brother of C. G. Paranis, chief agricultural
instructor to the Maltese in Queensland,
who is organising a training farm there
for his countrymen. The new editor, who
is only 22, was formerly on the staff of the
“Times of Malta,” Lord Strickland’s news-
paper
E. F. Symonds, appointed Professor in
Mathematics to the University of Queens-
land in succession to the late Professor
Priestly, was a distinguished graduate of
Sydney Uni. who topped up his studies at
Columbia University in New York. He was
Professor of Mathematics in the Urbania
foundation in Illinois.
The late A. J. F. Draper, who was Mayor
of Cairns more often than any other man,
and who died while attending a sugar con-
ference at Brisbane some four years ago,
is the subject of a biography issued by
the “Cairns Post,” of which he was pro-
prietor for many years. The biographer is
Victor Kennedy, a well-known Queensland
journalist, who has several other books to
his name, including “By Range and River.”
Dr. F. W. Pettey, senior entomologist of
the S’African Department of Agriculture,
recently left these shores with a queer cargo.
It was 28cwt. of prickly-pear, intended as
nourishment for 100,000 cactoblastis insects
from Bananaland, which, if all goes well,
will hatch out on his journey. The Union
has over 12 million acres of land in the
clutches of the vegetable pest being
mastered in Queensland.
R. J. Love, chairman of the N.S.W.
Hospitals Commission, who got a rap over
the knuckles from Justice liaise Rogers for
his unbusinesslike methods in the matter of
those fruit machines, was formerly in the
Vic. public service. He was inspector of
charities and sec. to the Charities Board;
before that he was sec. to the Children’s
Hospital, Carlton.
IN FRANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There will be magpies over there
And spiders in the grass—
The little things, the humble things
That on the brown earth pass.
In and out their weaving goes
Of song and web And where there blows
Scarlet of poppies, by long roads
And lines of whispering poplar-trees,
Life spins anew the patterns 01d....
Dear, dead men, do you know of these ?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


THE M.L.C. FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this
policy in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The Annual Income to the family on the death
of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the sum
assured, and is payable in monthly instalments
during the balance of the period of years
selected by the Assured.
One-tenth of the capital Sum Assured is payable
immediately on proof of death and title, to-
gether with reversionary bonuses attaching
(which vest from the commencement) ; and the
full- capital Sum Assured is paid also to the
dependents when the Income Period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens*
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. .T. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
m
BELTING for Long Service
TTHE many long-service records established
by Pioneer Leather Belting justify its
specification for the hardest and most diffi-
cult drives. There is no guesswork when
you buy Pioneer Belting, because there is a
special grade to suit each type of drive and
every working condition. For many years
of dependable service specify
PIONEER BELTING*
Made and guaranteed since 185 S by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON
LIMITED
117 York Street, Sydney, and 20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
AGENTS:
Sf * ?,°, EY t PI^ Y ’t t TD -’ 170 ED WARD STREET, BRISBANE.
uWPpt US Sn t M ° EELE & SONS > 129 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
AE I TEAL * A ; rT MR - HORACE SUMMERS, 9-11 HOWARD STREET, PERTH.
® AVIS > r TD., 60 ELIZABETH STREET, HOBART.
NEW ZEALAND: G. W. ARNOLD, LTD., A.M.P. CHAMBERS, WELLINGTON.
I
pep
GARBAGE DESTRUCTOR
Why pay for expensive
carting to get rid of your
refuse when you can burn
it immediately and so re-
duce your expenses, and
get rid of fly and rat pests,
which only spread disease.
BELIEVE IT OR NOT
This is the most
scientific destructor
on the market.
Owing to its con-
struction, it is smoke-
less and odorless.
Used in Public
Schools, Hospitals, Factories, etc.;
also made in household size. Send
for Bulletins on Filters, Explosives,
Stamp Batteries, etc.
GUTHRIDGE Ltd
10-12 Parramatta Road, Campeidown, N.S.W
The WILD CAT
COUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Net • To Re- lte-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Sept., ’22. .247,195 12i p.c.r=1C2,500 84,695 837,821
Mar., ’23. .251,395 12i ~,. 162,500 88,895 920,716
Mar., ’24f. 673,639 10 ~ „ 446,875 226,764 1,153,480
Sept., ’24. .324,978 10 ..,,243,750 81,228 1,234,708
Mar,, ’25. . 435,676 121 ~ ~ 304,688 130,987 1,365,695
Sept., ’25. .404,628 124 ~ ~ 304,688 99,940 1,465,635
Mar., ’26. .396,104 121 ~ ~ 304,687 91,417 1,557,053
Sept., ’26. .408,444 124 ~ ~ 304,088 103,756 1,660,809
Mar., ’27. .424,353 124 „ „ 304,687 119,666 1,780,475
Reserves capitalised, £975,000 .. 805,475
Sept., ’27. .476,516 124 p.c.=365,625 110,891 916,366
Mar., ’2B. .490,112 124 „ 365,625 124,487 1,040,853
Sept.,’2B. .469,157 124 „ 365,625 103,532 1,144,385
Mar., ’29. .507,149 124 „ „ 365,625 141,524 1,285,909
Sept., ’29. .465,492 12 4 „ 365,625 99,867 1,385,776
Mar., ’50..445,337 12 4 „ „ 365,625 79,712 1,465,488
Sept.,’3o. .350,727 124 365,625 1,450,590
Mar., ’3l. .384,097 124 „ „ 365,625 18,472 1,469,062
Sept., ’3l. .373,813 124 ~ „ 365,625 8,187 1,477,249
Mar., ’32. .370,509 124 „ „ 365,625 4,884 1,482,133
Sept.,’32 . .370,291 12* „ „ 365,625 4,666 1,486,799
‘Exclusive of Replacement and Depreciation Fund,
fPeriod covered 12 months. Fiji and Maoriland cos.
in- process of liquidation.
The fully-paid £2O shares advanced from £3S
17s. 6d. early in Oct., 1931, to £56 last week-
end, The recovery is due mainly to the drop
in interest rates. On a 12$ p.c. div. basis
t he return at the lower price mentioned was
6.4 p.c.; at £56 it is 4.4 p.c. Only a little
over 12 months ago short-dated Government
securities were priced to yield over 6 p.c.;
the return is now around 3f p.c.
In the past the business has been ex-
ceedingly prosperous. Shareholders put up
£2,425,000 in cash, and they received no less
than £7,325,000 in bonus scrip. Of the lot.
£3,900,000 was returned, leaving paid capital
at its present figure (£5.850,000). That the
co. has been able to maintain 12$ p.c. is due,
amongst other things, to its contract with
the Queensland Government, the existence of
large visible reserves and the severe writing
down of book values out of earnings, especi-
ally during the years of high world prices,
when the Fiji section contributed largely
to the pool.
For the 1929 season the Sugar Inquiry
Committee’s estimate of the co.’s profits
under the agreement with the Government
was as follows (the figures show first the
amount allowed by the Government under
various items and then the nroportion of
profit made out of that allowance by the co.) :
. f Profits — t ———,
Allowance for:— Per Ton. Amount.
(1) Insurance, harbor dues, sacks,
etc., 15s. per ton .. .. Set. £12,000
(2) Refining and distributing,
£2 15s. fid, per ton . . Nil Nil
(3) Depreciation and management,
£1 per ton .. .. ..14s. 9d. 236,000
(4) Selling, 7s. per ton .. .. 2s. 7.4 d. 33,000
(5) Financing, 7s. sd. per ton .. 7s. sd. 119,000
Total profit under agreement .. £400,000
The £400,000 was less than one-seventh
of a penny per pound of sugar refined, and
less than half of the total profit from all
sources in 1929. Allowing for income tax
(4s. 6d. in the £), the net return under the
agreement was 5 p.c. on the book value of
the assets concerned; and book figures were
about half replacement value. The allow-
ance for insurance, etc., has since been
reduced by Is. per ton. The charge for
financing was equal to 3.7 p.c. on the money
employed ; the co. finances gratuitously the
whole of the surplus sugar exported. The
refining and distributing payment is made
on the basis of actual cost.
In addition to the returns under the agree-
ment there are the profits from milling in
Australia (these averaged £201,000 for the
three seasons to 1930), growing and milling
iri Fiji and from a wad of investments out-
side the business. Also, there is a refinery
in Maoriland.
For the six months to the close of last
accounts the profit claimed from all sources
was only £2lB less than for the preceding
half. But the net addition to the replace-
ments and depreciation fund (now
£2,730,939) was £176,570 lighter at £52,002,
and the growth in suspense accounts
(£3,037,367. mainly provision for contingen-
cies) was £36 as against £70,068. Neither of
these heaps is included with the lay-by in the
table. To what extent, if any, the co. is
likely to be affected by the reduction in the
retail price of sugar early next year has
not been made clear. The possibilities are
that any shrinkage in the co.’s allowances
will be offset, or largely offset, by savings in
outgoings. So far as tonnages are concerned,
the Australian crop promises to be a little
lighter, due to seasonal conditions in sub-
tropical areas, but. Fiji figures look like
notching a record ; and _ though world prices
are still very low. Empire preference means
much.
The outstanding feature of balance-sheet
figures is strength :
Refineries—Australia and Maoriland ..£2,987,530
Sugar mills and plant, etc.—
Commonwealth .... . . 2,311,14,8
Fiji {less £1,625,000 reserve) .. 1,219,081
Ocean steamers .. . . .. . . 100,000
Distillery .. . . . . . , 129,585
Office premises . . 56,011
Stocks and some book debts .. . . 2,997,928
Other book debts, investments, etc. . . 1,876,256
Cash, deposits, etc. .. .. .. 2,856,131
£14,533,673
Liabilities— •
Sundry creditors ... .. £851,986
Suspense accounts.. ..3,037,367
Div. and bonus .. .. 365,625
4,254,978
Net assets . £10,278,695
Leaving suspense accounts out: of the liabili-
ties; the more or less liquid, surplus was
£6,512,707 at Sept. 30, or £662,707 in excess
of paid capital; the improvement in the
surplus was £568,025 over the last 12
months.
United Insurance Co.
—\ To Re- ■ Re-
Sept., / Profits, y Dividends serves, serves.
1922.. 58,862 HOp.c. = 30,000 28,862 386,984
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 361,984
1923.. 74,839 10 ■ pic. = 32,600 42,339 404,323
Transferred' to capital, £25,000 .. 379,323
1924.. 74.711 10 p.c. = 35,000 39,711 419,034
Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 394,034
1925.;. 91,546 10 p.c. = 37,500 nll . , 90n0 „
To, Pension Reserve, £lO,OOO j 44,04 b 438,080
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 413,080
1926.. 66,321 10 p.c. = 40,000 26,321 439,401
Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 414.401
1927.. 66,748 10 p.c. = 42,600 24,248 438,649
Transferred tb capital, £25,000 .. 413,649
1928.. 67,403 TO p.c. = 45,000 .22,403 436,052
1929.. 66,862 10 „ „ 45,000 21,862- 457,914
1930.. 68,231 10 „ „ 45,000 23,231 481,145
1931.. 42,039 10 „ „ 45,000 478,784
Cnexplained reduction, £lBl6 .. 476,968
Loss. • >
1932.. 12,022 5 p.c. = . .22,500 - 442,446
For years the policy, of this 70-year-6ld had
been to keep the div. steady and distribute
bonus scrip. Thus £325,000 of the £450,000
of capital was provided out of surplus earn-
ings since 1912. But the gifts called for
more profit to maintain the dividend; so the
co., having the financial strength and the
organisation to write a much larger busi-
ness, decided to put more ginger into the
hunt.
Soon the wider policy-writing and other
things brought a heavier crop of claims, while
premium income, fell away as values shrank,
and lighter pay-rolls affected workers’ com-
pensation receipts. Also, reductions in in-
terest, statutory and otherwise, lightened
returns from the co.’s own funds. Thus
reserves had to be tapped for £2361 to pay
10 p.c. in 1931; and for the year to Sept.,
’32, they were raided for a further £36,338
to cover losses and a 5 p.c. div., etc. Yet
they were still only £7500-odd less than paid
capital.
The contraction in the year’s total income
(£587,883) was £284,500; but the smaller
reinsurances (£230,047) reduced the net
shrinkage to £452,145: —
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense^
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1900. . £70,779 £38,589 £25,296 54.5 p.c. 35.7 p.c.
1910.. 111.906 55,094 49,276 49.2 „ 44.0 „
1920.. 287,193 93,040 131,359 32.4 „ 45.7
1925.. 297,720 101,465 146,677 34.0 „ 49.2 „
1926.. 296.273 131.016 143,572 44.2 „ 48.4 ~
1927.. 303,470 127,573 155,778 42.0 „ 51.3 „
1928.. 346,391 162,914 164,724 47.0 „ 47.6 „
1929. .*413,015 185,236 160,916 48.4) „ 38.9 t „
1930. .*498,050 261,695 168,124 52.5 t „ 33.7 t „
1931.. *509,981 290,748 167,101 57.0 f ~ 32.71 „
1932. . 357,836 256,408 113,450 71.6 f „ 31.71 „
interest, etc.
1 Ratio to net premiums pint interest, etc.
Thus the underwriting loss exceeded the
return from investments by £12,022. The
trouble occurred in connection with the
London marine business, which, speaking
generally, has been unsatisfactory for the
last decade, and seems likely to remain so
for some time yet. Drastic steps have been
taken to reduce the co.’s obligations in this
sphere; but marine adjustments are a long-
winded business, and further losses are
anticipated. The co.’s Australian revenue is
reported well maintained.
To meet the year’s outgoings Government
securities were reduced by £40.394 and cash
and book debts, etc., by £31,456: —
1920. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Government
securities .. £276,175 £503,313 £503,363 £453,969
Cash, book
debts, etc. 206,778 323,796 298,204 266,748
Debentures . . 60,831 40,688 40,688 40,688
Mortgages .. 53,988 131,729 128,193 125,718
Premises .. . 104,281 118,759 118,759 118,759
The amount coming to sundry creditors was
£101,156. Thus policy-holders could still see
net tangibles equal to 249 p.c. of the year’s
total income, whereas 150 p.c. of the net
premium income alone is usually considered
adequate.
Following publication of the sheet, the
£lO shares paid to £5 fell sharply from £9
2s. Gd. to £8 iii the market. The return
at £8 is 3.1 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. To
pay 5 p.e. the eo.'s own fund need net only
2.5 p.c. As underwriting results improve
dividend propects w r ill brighten.
Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Added to Re-
• Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1922.. 14,104 9 p.c. = 9,900 4204 10,062
1923.. 12,512 74 „ „ 8,250 4262 14,324
1924.. 14,025 7i „ „ 8,250 5775 20,099
1925.. 14,558 8 „ „ 8,800 5758 25,857
1926.. 15.572 9 „ „ 9,900 5672 31,529
1927.. 16,333 9 „ „ 9,900 6433 37,962
1928.. 13,686 9 „ „ 9,900 3786 41,748
1929.. 15,541 10 „ „ 11,000 4541 46,289
1930.. 15,441 10 „ „ 11,000 4441 50,730
1931.. 11,675 7 „ „ 7,700 3975 54,705
1932.. 9,168 6 „ „ 6,600 2568 67,273
At September 30 there was visibly £57,273
assisting £llO,OOO of capital. The lot,
together with £7405 coming to creditors,
was invested in premises,' £59,121; mort-
gages, £80,701; Government securities,
£20,000; cash, etc., £18,695, The statu-
tory cuts in interest on mortgages and
rents, etc., affected returns from those
sources, and, together with the shrinkage
in values generally, lightened the eo.’s
corpus and other commission earnings.
Thus, notwithstanding a spring 0 f £1,132,168
in the volume of trusts on the books, there
was a contraction of £4066 in the year’s
gross earnings:—
Exes. p.c.
• Gross of Gross
Trpst Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910.. £3,029,970 £11,743 £4,930 42.0 p.c.
1920.. 6,349,568 24,948 15,689 62.9 „
1924.. 8,955,624 39,584 24,921 63.0 ~
1925.. 9,895,117 42,950 27,771 64.7
1926.. 10,850,424 47,654 31,462 66.0 ~
1927. . 11,712,983 51,168 34,235 66.9 „
1928.. 12,873,589 . 25,374 38,088 72.5 „
1929.. 14,364,553 59,104 42,963 72.7 „
1930.. 15,975,572 61,899 45,858 74.0 „
1931.. 16,777,007 61,944 49,669 80.2 „
1932.. 17,909,175 57,881 48,114 83.1 „
The larger business was handled at £1555
less cost, and after striking £6OO off the
hook value of premises enough remained
to show 5.3 p.c. on capital as against 10.6,
14. 14.1. 12.4, 14.5 and 14.1 p.c. back to
1926. But the bonus (1 p.c. in the previ-
ous year and 4 p.c. for the two years before
that) was dropped, leaving the div. at 6 p.c.
Never has there been greater need for
the revision of wills nor more danger asso-
eiated with the distribution of legac.es than
at the moment. These and other compli-
cations connected with the administration
of assets are driving more business into
the expert care of the trustee cos. Also, the
N. S. Wales Government has brought down
a bill for a new moratorium; the,idea being
to restore some of the rights, that mortgagees
used to have, and thus encourage lending and
the revival of trade activity. Still, until sub-
stantial relief is gained from the onerous
tax burden on income from property, the
return from old mortgages will remain very
slender, and the price charged for fresh
accommodation will remain higher than it
ought to be.
Owing to the altered outlook for interest
rates, the eo.'s £5 shares paid to 11s. fetch
17s. 6d. in the market as against 15s. a
year ago. The return at 17s. 6d. is 3.7 pc.
on a 6 p.c. div. basis. Each rise or fall
of 1 p.c.. in the distribution would repre-
sent a shade over one-half of one per cent
in the yield. The cover is 16s. 9d. per share
in net tangibles.
Peters American Delicacy (Vic.)
T ' Towards
June, Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
■ £> £ £
Goodwill, preliminary exes., etc.. . 58 578
1930.. 7,634 Nil __ 66,215
1931.. 16,475 Nil 82^690
Profit.
1932.. 3,895 Nil 3895 78,795
Jf. oUe . °f Hie most remarkable indus-
trial floats in the history of Australian com-
pany finance. Attractive results then being
won by the parent in Sydney and the early
success of the Queensland business sent the
Public rushing for the scrip in 1929. For
200,000 £1 .shares no less than £2,290,000
was offered, and the paper, then paid to 3s„
quickly sold at 9s. in the market.
• ™ t l u different P r °blems had to be faced
in Melbourne, where competition was much
more severe. Then, before the co. could
get under way, the boom burst, the weather
w'as unkind, and, ice-cream being a luxury
easily dispensed with, losses instead of pro-
ms showed up for the first two years. For
the 12 mouths covered by the latest accounts
the season was better, the management took
a tighter hold of the business and a profit
of £3895 was registered. That was after
sending £13,052 net as against £9187 in the
previous year to the reserve for taxation
depreciation, etc., raising it to £33,716 at
.June 30. Leaving this out of the reckon-
mg, the amount of capital unrepresented bv
tangibles was £78,795 —goodwill, etc., £5l 650
and p. and 1. debit £27,145.
T 0 clear the way for the payment of divs
when earnings are sufficient, £82,825 is to
be slashed off paid capital (Bs. per share
off the fully-paids and 3s. 3d. off the con-
tribs.), reducing it to £122,503 in 12s. shares,
of which 94,500 will be fully-paid and the
balance paid to 4s. 9d. —when the books
closed there was £620 of calls unpaid. The cut
will enable the intangibles to be rubbed out,
and leave £4030 for other adjustments. A
5 p.c. div. will then call for £2230 more than
was netted last year.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:—
1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. . . £174,189 £204,463 £204,708
Sundry creditors . . 15,432 21,304 2,161
Freeholds . . . . 34,723 34,723 34,973
Plant 87,418 120,057 118,162
Stocks ' 7,979 0,101 4,804
Book debts . . . . 4,440 2,667 2,528
Cash, etc 27 193 1,323
Last year's allowance for depreciation, etc.,
and a bit more was used to knock £19,143
off the amount coming to sundry creditors.
Originally it was intended to spend £130,000
on a new factory at North Melbourne, but
owing to the change in trading conditions
this part of the programme has been aban-
doned, temporarily, at any rate. The busi-
ness is being carried on in the factory taken
over from Myers IXL Ply.
The contribs., which fetched only Gd. a
year ago, are now priced at 4s. 4d. on the
market.
Allan and Stark, Ltd.
, Dividends N
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
July. Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ 4? £ £ £
1925.. 22,349 2262' 8 p.c. = 18,418 1669 22,148
1926.. 23,202 3100 8 „ „ 18,557 1545 23,694
1927.. 24.510 3496 8 „ „ 20,684 329 24,024
1928.. 18,992 3499 7 „ „ 18,929 20.588
1929.. 25,931 3499 7 „ „ 19,010 3422 24,010
1930.. 14,054 3499 5 „ „ 13,580 20,985
Loss.
1931.. 4,531 3500 Nil 12,954
Exes, capitalised, £259 .. .. 12,695
Profit.
1932.. 3,432 3500 Nil 12,627
More people came to the store but they had
less money in their pockets; thus turnover
fell away 6.5 p.c.—the slip in the previous
year was 34j,9 P-c. But the drift belonged
entirely to the first half of the term;
there has been slight but steady improve-
ment since. The contraction in the year’s
gross earnings (£125,170) was £10,555. Exes.
(£121,738) were pulled back £7963 more
than that, leaving enough profit to cover all
but £6B of the pref. div. That w r as after
capitalising £259 in connection with the
renewal of a lease. The ords., which had
averaged 7.1 p.c., with little to spare, for
the half-dozen years to the close of accounts
in 1930, were passed by again.
The co. has not lacked enterprise. Since
1925 it has bought the businesses of the Civil
Service Stores and Margaret Halstein, in-
cluding a freehold; absorbed Chapman’s, a
neighbor; built a subway connecting the
Adelaide- and Queen-street premises, and
extended and improved the buildings. Not-
withstanding all this no more than 51.2 p.c.
of the balance-sheet total w r as represented
by fixed assets at the close of last accounts;
and there was nothing to w T orry about in
the finances :
1925. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £269,200 £321,615 £321,615 £321,615
Mortgages, etc. 50,613 52,925 82,925 82,425
Other liabilities 41,212 52,467 49,613 50,060
Premises & plant 156,513 231,972 232,761 240,346
Stock . . 153,960 162,977 153,660 143,225
Shares other cos. 20,984 21,296 21,296 21,846
Investments .. 10,560 550 3,640 2,100
Book debts .. 59,981 62,063 53,066 52,222
Cash, etc. .. 484 4,042 4,438 8,686
Thus the more or less liquid surplus
(£73,748, including stocks but not shares
in other cos.) slipped £B5lB during the
twelvemonth, due chiefly to the addition of
£7585 to premises and plant—an extra floor
in the Watson Ferguson leasehold was taken
over and equipped.
The market, which notes the co.’s perform-
ances under boom conditions and the thin
support for capital, prices the fully-paid
pound ords. at 9s. as against 12s. Gd. a year
ago. The return at 9s. wmuld be 54 p.c. on
a 24 p.c. div. basis. The cover is 20s. lid.
in net tangibles. The 7 p.c. prefs. (50,0CX i
of them) seldom appear on ’Change.
J. Fielding and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends Towards
Net Pref. Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ \ <£ £ £ £
1922, 53,112 1400 111 p.c. =12,375 39,337 46,073
Pref. capital ( £20,000) returned.
Ordinaries.
1923. .28,627 111 p.C.=13,333 15,294 61,367
1924.. 29.735 Hi ~,,13,500 16,235 77,602
1925.. 18.225 111 ~,,13,500 4,725 82,327
1926.-23,495 111 ~ ~ 13,547 9,948 92,275
Reserves! capitalised, £24,500 .. 67,775
1927.. 36.354 12* p.c.=18,375 17,979 85.754
1928.. 40.408 15" ~., 22,425 17,983103,737
1929.. , 15 ~,, 22,425 18,625 122,362
Written off investments, etc., £14,000.. 108,362
1930.. 23.024 15 p.c.=22,425 599 108,961
Written off investments, £5OOO ..103,961
1931., 16,180 t 10 p.c.=14,950 1,230 105,191
l5 ~,,22,600 17,084 122,275
This SydiTfey manufacturer of cardboard
boxes, cartons and corrugated-fibre con-
tainers enjoys a unique position in the
(Continued on page 16.)


'W;J;
■ ; V’
e&smim
KM
smmm
WMBmi
m&nsssm
Hsli
I nmsm
i H
■
*•* i* • .* * •
'
I MMM 7 I nMi
SjSwjl'!.’-';
■■■'■.'■ Ms
V
illl
B
»
ft
KHIHHI
;
:sm
wmm
B
... /
HB
i
:r, ?
HH
IWHlii
1
M
B
HI
■ ‘AV/.i:
r-* -. j;
BB
H
B
■
mwsmlmm
u
m
:
H
wHmmm
mmm
■‘' •' it
vi/i-Si'"'"-
'
H
B
BBS
■
i H
■
H
; S1
sim
Kl
To hear "You’ll have a glass of
Johnnie Walker before you
go?” makes a stranger feel
halfway on the road to friend-
ship. Better still, reminds two
friends that each likes the
other well.
JOHNNIE
Walker
Born 1820—still going strong
JOHNNIE WALKER SCOTCH WHISKY IS BOTTLED ONLY IN BOND UNDER GOVERNMENT SUPERVISION.


“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
November Issue Now on Sale
Is 4 p.c. Cheap Money?
Position of Banks.
Interest Rates and Share Prices.
Which Section Has Suffered
Most?
Trading Results Compared.
These and many other questions of
vital interest to investors will be
discussed in the November issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEU ANNUM. 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
Patents.- —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Ilassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & ConusoN, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
:fc * * *
LARGE CAPITAL AVAILABLE.—I have London
Capital available for Proved Gold Properties, also
Capital to develop. Inspection made in any part oi
Commonwealth. Reply with some details tc
“LONDON,” c/o Mercantile Exchange, 380 Collins-
street, Melbourne, Cl.— Advt.
* * # *
MINES AND FIELDS EXAMINED. Reports
furnished. Write to William Bradford, late special
Examiner of Mines for Victorian Government.
Address William Bradford, Ballarat East. — Advt.
NQBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Lcxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through + ht> leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business,
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?'
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL H DOYLE
j. W. BARNES, Manager,
Directors:
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman^
THOS. BUCKLAND
J. H. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
trade; the imagination and quick enterprise
of James Fielding, its founder and managing-
director, the husbanding of financial re-
sources and technical efficiency have com-
bined to set it there. Though the general
slackness affected turnover for a while,
exchange and the tariff reduced imports of
wood cut to sizes for assembling into cases;
hence more products are now being packed
in the co.’s all-Australian fibre-boxes.
Because of this and a better return
from investments (these include an unspeci-
fied holding in a Melbourne subsidiary), the
board claimed £13,505 more profit (£29,685)
for the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts. That was after £lO,OOO had dropped
from .somewhere into reserves. Thus there
was enough to show 26.5 p.c. on capital as
against 10. S, 15.4, 27.4, 27 and 24.3 p.c.
back to 1927. So the 5 p.c. bonus, dropped
in 1931, was restored, making 15 p.c. for
the year; and 15 p.c. is worth a lot more
to old holders, about two-thirds of the capi-
tal having been provided out of surplus
earnings.
During the year two freeholds were
bought—Frazer House in Elizabeth-street
and Royal Chambers at the corner of Castle-
reagh and Hunter streets. At present the
net return from these is very small, owing
to taxation, but when better times arrive,
and some of the imposts are lifted, earnings
from these sources should improve. During
the preceding 12 months the co. also bought
Keep’s old freehold in Sussex-street. The
priqe paid for these properties was not men-
tioned, but the net addition to the book
value of premises was £20,561 in ’3l and
£64,393 last year :
1919. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £40,000 £149,500 £149,500 £149,500
Liabilities . . 51,982 17,531 13,622 36,044
Premises . . 31,324 42,046 62,607 127,000
Plant, etc. . . 21,230 33,606 28,930 26,508
Stocks.. .. 42,416 26,434 22,969 21,344
Book debts, cash
and investments 19,778 185,119 157,545 142,426
Thus to finance last year’s property pur-
chases the board went outside for an extra
£22,422, and drew upon cash, book debts
and investments (they are all lumped in one
entry in the sheet) for £15,119; surplus
earnings and a reduction of £1625 in stocks
provided the balance. The net reduction in
the more or less liquid surplus (£127,726)
was £39,166. Investments can be consid-
ered gilt-edged, the chairman says.
To provide for further expansion of the
Melbourne business shareholders will pre-
sently be offered 27,692 new £1 shares, one
for five, at par. Also 2808 employees’ shares
have been issued. When fully-paid, the lot
will advance capital to £lBO,OOO, on which
15 p.c. will call for £12,684 less profit than
was disclosed last year. Allowing for the
final div. and bonus, and after exercising the
rights, the return at 595. is 5.8 p.c. on a 15
p.c. div. basis. The visible cover will be
335. 7d. in net tangibles.
Commonwealth 3 2 p.c. Loan
After an absence of nearly two years the
Commonwealth Government has come into
the local market for £8,000,000 of new money
at 3f p.c. The issue, which is redeemable
in J 942, has been underwritten by the banks.
It is offered at par, and interest will be sub-
ject to Federal income tax as at June 30,
1930, but exempt from all other taxation,
including the special 10 p.c. levy on incomes
from property and State income tax. The
market has adjusted itself to the new interest
rate, and there appears to be little prospect
of any of the paper being left on the under-
writers’ hands. The money will be used one-
half to fund part of the floating debt
(£B° 670,000 at June 30), and the other
half for State public works. These funding
operations will probably be spread over
some years, especially since budgetary
deficits are still being financed by the issue
of short-dated Treasury bills. Provided the
market is fed with easily-digested parcels,
low-interest rates are not likely to be dis-
turbed.
Things look promising at Mt. Morgan.
Managing director R. T. Thompson says
that by the beginning of January the eo.’s
first objective, an output of 3000 tons of ore
per week, will be reached. Three shifts a
day are working, and the old machinery,
which many thought would be useless after
its long idleness, has given full satisfaction.
By the end of March next it is expected that
another hundred hands or more will be
wanted. The 3000 tons per week means
about 200 tons of concentrates, the gold con-
tent of which would be worth £6OOO at pre-
sent prices.
* * * *
The Queensland Government is pushing
ahead with the coking plant at Bowen to
supply the Mt. Isa smelters. The 45 ovens,
with an output of 30,000 tons annually, will
cost £50.000, Coal consumption will be
about 50,000 tons annually.
Gold Mines of Australia, whose first pup,
Mt. Coolon Gold Mines, will be starting up
its treatment plant this month, has dropped
the option held over the Camboon property
at Mt. Perry (Q.).
❖ ❖ * Sfc
At Lolworth Creek (N.Q.) 51 tons from
the Sunrise, the most promising show on
the field, yielded 1790 z. of gold, making a
total of SOOoz. over the last 12 months. A
battery is nearing completion, and 2UO tons
from the Big Rise, held under option by
Sardine Tin, is waiting. The N. S. Wales
G. M. Investigation Co. holds options over
six mines, including the Lucky Hit. Lol-
worth is 78 miles by road from Charters
Towers.
* * * *
Golden Surprise, North Arm (Q.), has
driven on the Coolum formation in its
Extended lease at the 38ft. level for about
29ft. north and south. North the reef is
small, but values are payable and stoping
has been started; south the formation aver
ages about 2ft. A trial 49 tons from this
lease gave 920 z. lOdwt. gold, worth over
£3OO. The tunnel from the Golden Surprise
to cut the Coolum and other reefs has been
continued north and south, and a shaft to
pierce the tunnel is down 36ft., where the
formation shows gold in the dish. A clean-
up after a month’s run on 195 tons ore
yielded 2770 z. bullion, valued at £B5O. A
cyaniding plant is being erected.
:|i % sfc
Upwards of 30 claims were recently pegged
on the old Brovinia goldfield, 40 miles s.-w.
of Mundubbera (Q.). The May Queen,
taken up over 40 years ago and abandoned
in 1915, is being worked again. Five head
of stamps has been erected. A new reef,
6in. to 18in. wide, has been exposed 40ft.
from the surface in an old shaft. The bed
of Brovinia Creek, adjacent to Brovinia
homestead, is to be dredged too. Here a
party obtained 17oz. of gold for three days’
work.
Sic $ *
A 50-acre lease has been taken up on
the undeveloped portion of the Great Ingle-
wood reef, Gympie (Q.). In the old days
(1870-73) from 6ft. to 20ft. of this reef,
averaging ]4dwt., was worked on the sur-
face. The old Scottish averaged over lOdwt.
down to 2Soft. Last year the Great South-
ern had to abandon operations owing to the
rapid rise of water.
* * * sic
Though several old mines in the district
are being operated with indifferent success,
a promising reef has been picked up near the
old Moonshine, about 15 miles from Croydon
(N.Q.), and a shaft is to be sunk. The
absence of crushing facilities has held up
prospectors during the last few months; the
Government, however, is reconditioning the
old battery. From 1886, when gold was first
discovered at Croydon, to the end of 1924,
when operations there ceased, 770,9470 z.,
valued at over £3,500,000, had been won.
The old Richmond mine was by far the best,
producing upwards of 20,0000 z. This mine
is down to 640 ft., and there is talk of opera-
tions being resumed on a large scale.
dc * :!c eje
The Herberton (Q.) tin lead is being
worked for a distance of four miles between
Wondoola and Kalinga. To the south the
wash carried up to 121 b. of tin oxide per
yard; it is overlain by 50ft. of basalt. North
the overburden increases to 100 ft., and the
wash, loin, deep, carries 401 b. of fine t.o. per
yard in places. At Dry River, an Sin. suc-
tion pump has been installed to work rather
bouldery wash, without success so far.
:jc sjc iji s{:
The sands from the Ironclad at Woolgar,
near Richmond (N.Q.), yielded 7dwt. 10
grains, making the total yield 3oz. lldwt.
10 grains per ton. There has been quite
a local rush, but as the best 10,000 acres
are held by an English company many have
turned away without pegging a claim.
* -Ar- *
A party led by W. J. Lynch has found
a lode near the old Cania diggings (G.Q.) ;
five tons sent to the State Smelters, Chil-
lagoe, returned silver 1360 z., lead 33.9
p.c., copper 10 p.c. per ton. At the moment
the party is working a reef assaying 2oz.
7dwt. gold per ton. Five-head of light stamps
has been erected.
H! ❖ t'fi :}:
Gold production in New Guinea for the
half-year ended June 30, 3932, was 59.1860 z.,
valued at £247,637, an increase of 10,000 oz.
compared with the previous half-year. The
output from the second Buloio dredge and
the new mill of New Guinea Goldfields
should soon give the figures a lift. The
total yield of gold in New Guinea to June
30, 1932, is 531,1730 z., valued at £1,317,000.
=l= * Ac Ac
There is further talk of English interests
developing New Guinea sulphur deposits,
which are estimated to contain at least
1,500,000 tons of brimstone. Australia im-
ports about 120,000 tons of American Texas
brimstone annually, the price being about £lO
per ton. Despite the fact that pyrite, which
contains about 50 p.c. sulphur, occurs in
enormous quantities in Tas., N.S.W. and
Queensland, this mineral has never been able
to compete with raw sulphur. The Electro-
lytic Zmc Co. recovers annually some 25,000
tons of sulphur as sulphuric acid from
Broken Hill zinc concentrates.
* * * *
Central Australia Gold Exploration Co.,
which financed an expedition to locate
“Lasseter’s lost reef,” but failed to connect,
is to have another try. In addition to a
camel train _ from Alice Springs, the usual
aeroplane will accompany the expedition.
* * * *
A party of tributers at Curnow’s tinmine,
Torrington (N.S.W.), has located rich ore
3ft. »wide in a winze from No. 2 level. About
100 tons of this stone, containing 3 p.c. tin,
is available for crushing.
* # * «
Baranduda, recently formed with a capital
of £lO,OOO to work alluvial at Yackandandah
(Vic.), has begun dismantling its dredge at
Osborne Flat preparatory to re-erection on
the new site.
* * * *
At Eldorado (Vic.), Byawatha Tin has
floated its barge into a new position on a
lower level, and commenced sluicing in wash
that is expected to yield good returns with
tin at £l5O.
Hs
The treatment plant of the Goldsbrough
at Maldon (Vie.) has been bought for re-
erection at Yandoit. Here a rich leader 3in.
wide has been located, and a shaft sunk to
a depth of 15ft. From a claim near by a
crushing of tons of picked stone recently
yielded 56 ounces.
* * * *
The Early Bird and Rip Van Winkle
at Blackwood ( Vic.) are to be unwatered. On
the Early Bird the reef, which has been
opened up for 200 ft., varies from 2ft. to
6ft. in width. The ore was free milling;
recent crushings averaged Bdwt.
* * * *
Approximate current monthly profits
(Australian currency, including exchange)
of the more important Westralian gold pro-
ducers are: Lake View and Star, over
£40,000; Wiluna, £30,000; South Kalgurli,
£8000; Gt. Boulder, £10.500; Boulder Per-
severance, fSOOO; Sons of Gwalia, £ll,OOO.
Lake View will probably reach £50,000 and
Wiluna £40,000 before long.
* -i : * *
After an absence of 11 years from the
dividend list Lake View and Star will pay
6d. a share in Dec. In well-informed quar-
ters it is expected that next year’s distribu-
tion will be 2s. or more. Recent important
finds in_ this mine, and there have been
several, include a new shoot at the 3000 ft.
level of the Chaffers section. This is some
distance south of any other payable gold-
carrier yet exposed on the Golden Mile.
Geologists Maclaren and Stillwell said it
was in that part of the Kalgoorlic-Boulder
belt that new shoots were likely to be found
at depth.
❖ ❖ $
Migratory Hansel Mundy has taken an
option on “something promising” at The
Granites. The report, that the co. recently
had, and turned down, an option on the
Radio Deeps (W.A.) is denied by the
owners. They say the proposal was to bore
for the continuation of the Radio lode on a
strip of Radio Deeps ground adjoining the
Radio, but they jibbed when experts re-
ported that the job would be expensive.
* * * *
On the North Kalgurli Central ore assay-
ing 39dwt. per ton over a width of 6ft. has
been met in a crosscut on the 160 ft. level of
the North Boundary shaft.
* * * *
Freney Oil Co. is short of funds, and
wants to raise more. Shareholders are
asked to accept a ss. share paid to 3s. for
each fully-paid £1 share. The co. has rights
over 90,000 square miles of territory in Kim-
berley (W.A.), and claims to have £20,000
worth of boring plant. The alternative to
reconstruction is shutting down.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
( Transferred, from Service Department.)
(1) What percentage of molybdenite in-
ore would be payable-? (2) Uses of the
metal? (3) Market value? (4) Likely
buyers? —2667.
(1) Depends upon conditions. In America
one co. is successfully treating ore carrying
1 p.c. molybdenite. Its throughput is up
to 800 tons per day. It is not only the
percentage of molybdenite which deter-
mines whether ore is payable; the ease
with which the mineral can be con-
centrated by flotation or otherwise is
a big factor. (2) Chiefly as an alloy in
conjunction with other metals, such as
chromium and nickel, to toughen steel. Also
in the manufacture of molybdates (a chemi-
cal compound which has varied uses). (3)
London, Aug. 30, 425. 6d. per unit, if con-
taining less than 0.3 p.c. copper; thus 80 p.c.
molybdenite would be worth £l7O per ton
c.i.f. At 425. 6d. per unit Australian pro-
ducers could probably operate their mines
if that figure was assured. (4) Climax
Molybdenite Co., Climax, Colorado, U.S.A.:
O. T. Lempriere and Co., Collins House, 360
Collins-street, Melbourne.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
L.E.8.: In the circumstances you mention, would
hold on to the shares but sell the bonds... .S.C.: (1)
Paid capital, £4,098,936, in 4,930,186 £1 shares,
of which 4,055,186 are fully-paid and the balance
paid to Is. (2) Doubtful X.Y.Z.: Very risky.
Everything depends upon debtors’ balances, mostly
frozen by the moratorium. On paper the net
tangible cover was 12,5. 9d. per pound of paid
capital at June 30, 1931. Since then Is. per
share has been called; there was a contingent lia-
bility of £ 99,000-odd in respect of guarantees
H.G.P.: (1) Good prospects of coming out all right
in the long run. (2) Yes.... Stickybeak: (1) Co.
balances at Sept. 30 and presents its sheet in , Dec.
(2) and (3) Olds, have not yet received a div.
(4) “Sun,” “Sunday Sun,” “Daily Telegraph,”
“Newcastle Sun,” “Woman’s Budget” and some
minor publications. (5) Yes, by writing off ord.
capital. (6) Depends upon net earnings. (7) No.
(8) Entirely a personal matter; what suits one
may not suit another. (9) N0....W.C.: If the aim
is chiefly to provide for dependants, after death
of assured, whole of life with profits policy....
C.A.S.: The outlook for this field is not encouraging.
. ...M.8.H.: (1) A sound swap. (2) Yes. (3)
Prospects are far from bright. (4) At present
prices it is a gamble at long odds... .W.C.: Sit
tight for a while. Book debts were the trouble;
the position in this and other respects has improved.
. ...0.L.W.: At Aug. 31, 1930, the assurance fund
exceeded liabilities under policies by £1206 in the
Ordinary branch; while in the Industrial section
liabilities under policies exceeded the fund by
£30,056. This amount was added to the fund on
one side and to the establishment account on the
other. At the end of August, 1932, the funds of
both departments combined exceeded the. book value
of net tangibles by £17,650. Shareholders could
be called upon for £153,991. Bonuses are not in
sight. .. .J.L.N.: Write to Secretary, Oil Search,
Ltd., 350 George-street, Sydney.... J.W.L.: The real
value depends upon net earning capacity, the
future of which is very difficult to determine at
the moment. Costs, not exchange, is the most
important factor. Also, seasonal conditions for the
last three years cannot be taken as a general average.
... .A.W.H.: Depends upon your age and what your
intentions are. A family income policy is very
attractive if you can afford it. Both are highly
reputable cos. ; discuss the matter fully with the
agents Mica: (1) It is likely that development
and new plant will gobble most of the profits for
some time. (2) All that can be said definitely is
that the co. is on the hunt. (3) While gold fetches
its present price, yes. The shares Tire fully-paid to
£1 W.S.C.: Speaking generally, dividends are
payable in the currency of the country in which the
co.’s headquarters are situated. Thus at current
rates an Australian shareholder in a Ne-.v Zealand
co. would be entitled to £ll4 7s. 6d. in Australian
notes for every £lOO coming 'to him in New Zealand.
If the N.Z. co. makes payment out of an Australian
account, exchange should be added to the dividend
warrant.


THE SOAP-BOX
An attempt to answer some of the questions asked by correspondents.
Rebuilding from the Bottom
We are all offering palliatives. “No,”
we are saying, “that is not what ought to
be; but it is the best thing possible in the
circumstances.” How do we know? Why
don’t we recognise that this is a time for
radical reconstruction —for getting to the
very roots of things—for rebuilding from the
bottom up? Isn’t even The Bulletin
(which is saner than most ) full of subter-
fuges and plans for dodging difficulties? —
J.'B. E.
Quite true; we admit it all—The Bulle-
tin openly and unashamedly has been preach-
ing compromise. If you were in an open
boat at sea, and an unenlightened crew took
charge, and was bent on doing something
that would be disastrous, or was veering that
way, wouldn’t you temporise? If we made
up our minds to rebuild from the bottom, we
should have to consider whether millions
who have been given the Parliamentary vote
are entitled to it. You might get these dis-
franchised a few at a time; but, suppose
you believed large numbers should be dis-
franchised, what hope would you have of
putting the measure through, seeing that all
these people would have a say in the matter?
Both the Communists and the Fascists say
that democracy has made the position impos-
sible and that it must be swept away. The
democratic reformer in this country admits
that the politicians have made the position
difficult, but he still believes we can win
through by judicious compromise.
Communism and Russia
Whenever The Bulletin ivants to preju-
dice the fair consideration of the case for
collectivism it throws in the name of Russia.
Other papers are repeatedly talking about
Russian gold and suggesting that this man
and that are in Russian pay. Britain
doesn’t carry on a monarchist propaganda
because it is a monarchy, and the U.S.A.
doesn’t care a hang whether another country
is republican or not. Why should it be sup-
posed that Russia is different? —Truth
First (W.A.).
Because the Russian Revolution —the Bol-
shevik seizure—didn’t come from within; it
was planned from without by the same
authority which between the Russian coup
and 1921 had attempted to foment Bolshevik
revolutions in Lithuania, Poland, Bulgaria,
.Tugo-Slavia, Hungary and even in Germany.
The Third International had and still has
its headquarters organisation, which is, in
many respects, superior even to the Soviet
High Command : it was responsible for Trot-
sky’s dethronement. The Paris “Revue des
Deux Mondes” in 1927 made a most search-
ing inquiry into the whole organisation of
Bolshevism, and its articles were reprinted.
This is the translation of one of its conclu-
sions; “Everything, even admissions by .Com-
munists themselves, proves that there is not
one Communist party in France and a dif-
ferent Communist party in England or Bul-
garia, but there is one single Communist
party—that of Moscow —and that it main-
tains an army in each theatre of operations,
exactly as the French Army has one force
in Morocco and another in the Levant.”
The Powers of Parliaments
As I understand it, the Privy Council de-
cided in the N.S.W. Leg. Council case that
one Parliament can pass a law which a sub-
sequent Parliament may not repeal. This
seems to me so entirely undemocratic that I
can’t believe the rule can be of general appli-
cation. How far can the “dead hand” rule
in this way? —Old Liberal (S.A.).
The Bulletin was among those that had
doubts whether one Parliament could pass
what another could not repeal. But the
Privy Council (which three times out of
four is not unanimous) was unanimous that
it could. In 1929 the N.S.W. Parliament
(Bavin Government) passed an Act of which
section 7a said : “(1) The Leg. Council shall
not be abolished nor, subject to the provi-
sions of sub-s. 6 of this section, shall its
powers be altered except in the manner pro-
vided in this section. (2) A bill for any
purpose within sub.-s. 1 of this section shall
not be presented to the Governor for his
Majesty’s assent until the bill has been
approved by the electors in accordance with
this section”.... In 1930 the Parliament
(Lang Government) passed a measure: “The
Leg. Council of N. S. Wales is abolished.”
There were law proceedings, which eventually
reached the Privy Council. The appellants
(Lang Government) claimed “that the
N.S.W. legislature had no power to shackle
or control its successors,” who thus, it
claimed, had the right to abolish the Leg.
Council, notwithstanding the Bavin measure.
The Privy Council decided that “section 5 of
the Colonial Laws Validity Act of 1865— an
Imperial statute —is the master section.”
This “gives to the legislature of N. S. Wales
certain powers, subject to this, that in
respect of certain laws they can only become
effectual provided they have been passed in
such manner and form as may from time to
time be required by any Act still on the
statute book.” This provision, it held, is
“amply wide enough to cover an enactment
provided that a bill is to be submitted to the
electors and that unless and until a majority
of the electors voting approve the bill it
shall not be presented to the Governor for
his Majesty’s assent.” The Privy Council
thus further held that “the legislature had
power to alter the Constitution of N. S.
Wales by enacting that bills relating to speci-
fied kind or kinds of legislation (e.g., abolish-
ing the Log. Council or altering its Consti-
tution or powers, or repealing or amending
that enactment) should not be presented for
the Royal assent until approved by the
electors in a prescribed manner.” The power
of a legislature to “shackle or control” its
successors is therefore strictly limited. It
can only say in what “manner and form”
certain laws to become effective shall be
passed; the “manner” in this case included
a reference to the people.
“Dollar Bonds”
I read in a cable that Australian “dollar
bonds” have been sold in London at £326,
and it was added that this high price is
due to exchange. Who pays this exchange
and who yets it? I am a farmer, and so
many people who have never shown much
interest in us have teen advocating higher
exchange “in the interests of the farmer’
that I am getting suspicious. It would not
he the first time the farmer has been used
as a catspaw. —R.M.L.
“Dollar bonds,” mostly 5 p.c., were floated
by Australian Governments some years ago
in New York, and at one time —in Lang’s
day—were worth only about half their
face value. Lately thev have improved
very much ; but in New York they are still
worth much under par. But since £lOO
in New York is worth about £147 in Lon-
don, it follows that £5 of interest payable
in New York is worth £7 7s. in London.
In Australia it is worth still more —about
£9 6s. Bd. The New York investor in
these bonds gets only the same 5 p.c. that
ever he got; but the Australian investor gets
£9 6s. Bd. p.c., apd the British investor
about £7 7s. p.c. The difference between
the 5 p.c. and those figures has to be made
up by the Australian Governments which
have issued the bonds, and they do that, of
course, through their taxpayers. Some Aus-
tralians have been selling their “dollar
bonds” in America or London and getting
the proceeds remitted to Australia. _ That
worked out this way. If they got $BO for
every $lOO face value, exchange brought it
up to the equivalent of about $llB in Lon-
don. And the Australian £ is also so much
further depreciated that £llB in London
is worth £147 in Australia. Thus the man
who invested £lOO in gold bonds at par can
now make £47 by selling and having the
money sent to Australia even though he
has to sell in New York at 20 p.c. discount.
It is thus quite true that a high exchange
rate benefits others besides the farmer. For
instance, if the rate went up to 35 p.c..
every £5 interest payable in New York
would cost the Australian taxpayer' £9 18s.
But the Australian who held those bonds
would get £9 18s. in Australia in lieu of
£5 in New York.
Another Way to Get Square
The Commonwealth Government controls
our currency. If it issued new patterns of
all of the present units, with the addition of
the farthing, and put them into circulation
at the rate of three new for five old, it
would have the effect of immediately re-
ducing our costs, prices, values, and internal
obligations to something approximating the
Gold Standard. It would remove the handi-
cap the primary producers are struggling
with, and an adjustment on these lines
would neither hurt nor benefit any indi-
vidual or section of individuals. The wage-
earner would be no worse off, nor would
the bank depositor and bondholder. Even
The Bulletin need not be perturbed at
the prospect of having to sell itself for
3|d., as it would be adequately compensated
by reductions in wages, customs duty, etc. —
Yours, Australian.
Once upon a time some people were in
a boat which was leaking badly and they
didn’t think it could reach la,nd. One
said “We shall have to .swim for it.” “But
we can’t swim,” cried several. “I know,”
answered the wise man of the party. “But
let those who can’t swim call themselves
fish, and then it will be all right, because,
as everybody knows, all fish can swim.”
And that is what the world is doing to-day
—trying to turn iron into cork by writing
another label on it.
The Cause of High Costs
I bought four tons of potatoes in Mel-
bourne at 4s. sd. per bag. I sent them to
.Townsville and thence to Isa. To land there
meant another Bs. 7d. per bag —just on twice
as much for carriage and handling as it cost
to grow them, dig them, rail them to Mel-
bourne and deliver them to me there. To
shift th e m a few hundred yards to rail at
Townsville cost 6s. per ton. Then there were
inspection fees —Heaven knows what for,
because 10 out of 64 bags were rotten and it
wasn’t discovered. Who is responsible for
these crushing charges? Why don’t politi-
cians look after such things instead of trying
to rob the poor old-age pensioners of their
few bob? —A. McK. (Q-).
Why did the spuds cost twice as much to
freight to Townsville and rail to Isa as they
did to grow, etc.? Because Australians think
they can be a good fellow, and pay their
seamen more than any other nation does, and
give people more railways, and pay railway
men more wages, and pay higher old-age pen-
sions, etc., etc., and still have their spuds
carried for a reasonable price. And
“A. McK.’s” remark about old-age pensioners
suggests that he is as much responsible as
anybody.
To Release Mortgages
- I suggest that the Commomvealth Bank
should take over 10 millions of mortgages
showing a good equity, which would release
10 millions for circulation by private enter-
prise; the mortgagors, of course, to pay the
batik off by instalments. The scheme icould
rehabilitate many good citizens who have had
to mortgage homes, etc., and are in danger
of losing them.; and 10 millions put in cir-
culation would be a great spur to industry. 1
/ have submitted the scheme to the Federal
Government, which turned it down. Can you
tell me why ? —Albury Mortgagor.
Where the Commonwealth Bank would
get the money is not mentioned. From
depositors? It dare not. The Savings Bank
of N. S. Wales had to stop payment because
depositors’ money was in frozen securities.
The pretty obvious intention is to set the
printing press at work. The idea then is
that the mortgagees, having been repaid,
would go out and spend the money. Would
they? Most of them could get money to-day
if they wanted it. Many of them have
money, which they don’t know what to do
with,' and which they put on deposit with
banks, which don’t want it, wherefore
interest rates are coming down all the time.
The ex-mortgagees certainly would want to
get rid of the notes; 10 millions of them
forced into circulation would inevitably drive
down still further the value of currency. In
other words, prices would rise, and costs
would rise, and exchange would have to be
lifted a bit, which means that taxes would
also have to be lifted, and industry, instead
of benefiting, would be further handicapped.
It doesn’t matter what you use the new
currency for —raw inflation is no way out.
Gold and Exchange
Earle Page said in the House of Reps. the.
other day that as Australian currency was off
the gold basis it was impossible to say with-
out inquiry what the exchange rate should
be. He suggested the appointment of a Com-
mission of Economists for the purpose. Does
that mean setting up another brand of Arbi-
tration Court? If so, what exactly would be
its functions? —Carsiialton (Vic.).
That’s a large question to answer here.
As long as a currency is on the gold basis —•
that is to say, as long as it can be exchanged
for a definite quantity of gold—you know
what it’s worth in the currency of another
country which is also on a gold basis. So
long as England was “on” gold, its £1 note
was worth $4,866 in New York and 124.21
francs in Paris. As goon as the £ lost its
gold basis you could only tell what it was
worth by finding out what it would buy at
home and what those same goods plus charges
would fetch abroad. Page says that we don’t
know what our own £, being “off” gold, is
worth —that is to s.ay, what it will buy com-
pared with what other currencies will buy—
and that a commission ought to be
appointed to find out, the exchange rate to
be fixed accordingly. But there is another
way of finding out. When a doctor nails up
his plate the value of his services is un-
known. But we don’t appoint a commission
to find out. If he charges too much for
what he is worth, he doesn’t get anything
to do. Supply and demand soon settle that
matter. And exactly the same with exchange.
If our rate is too high—that is to say, if we
have depreciated our currency too much—
we can export more than we can import.
The result will be that we shall pile up
money abroad. If our rate is not high
enough, we shall not export enough to pay
for our imports plus our foreign commit-
ments. Where exchange is not manipulated,
as it is at present, the rate rights itself —
just as it does with a doctor ; if he is charging
too much, he gets no patients; if he is charg-
ing too little, he gets too many patients. IYe
doesn’t want a commission to tell him what
to do : in one case he drops his charges and
in the other he raises them.
AND YOU CAN THINK WHAT YOU LIKE.
“The report of Mr. Justice Halse Rogers (N.S.W.), the Royal Commissioner appointed to inquire into the tin-hare and
fruit-machine scandals, was made public last week.”
N. S. WALES: “No, I don’t know exactly who stole my fowls. I only know there was feathers on some of these kids clothes
when I caught them.”


Legal Notice.
NOTICE :s hereby given that a Petition in causa
WALTER WILSON SUTHERLAND residing at
Street Govan PURSUER against MRS.
MARGARET PRINGLE or GIBB residing at 11 St.
James Terrace Forfar Executrix Dative of Mrs. Jane
Sutherland or Pringle widow who resided at 11 St.
James Terrace Forfar who was Executrix dative
ot James Sutherland retired Gamekeeper late of
Douglastown near Forfar DEFENDER to find that
LACHLAN SUTHERLAND Goods Carriers Carter
whose last known address was 59 Reid Street Govan
haa disappeared and has not been known to be alive
after sth September 1912 that he died or must be
presumed to have died on the sth day of September
1919 and to find any Defenders offering opposition
thereto liable in expenses; And to decern therefor
has been presented to the Sheriff of Forfarshire at
Forfar and that His Lordship the said Sheriff has
by Interlocutor dated 21st September 1932 inter alia
appointed parties interested to lodge objections if
they any have in the hands of the Clerk of Court
at Forfar on or before the second day of February
1933 with certification.
MACLEAN & LOWSON,
Solicitors, Forfar, Agents, Scotland.
{N THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND
ROCKHAMPTON.
To BENJAMIN CULPAN and ALMA BERTINE
CIJLPAN his wife.
TAKE NOTICE that an Action has been com-
menced against you in the Supreme Court of Queens-
land Rockhampton No. 46 of 1932 by EVELYN
BLANCHE DARTS in which the Plaintiff claims
specific performance of an agreement in writing
between the Plaintiff and the Defendant Benjamin
Culpan dated 28th June 1927 and a declaration that
certain moneys - standing to the credit of a certain
Account known as Mrs. Alma Bertine Culpan Darts
A/c in the books of the Commonwealth Savings
Bank Rockhampton are clothed with a certain Trust
or a declaration that the same are payable to the
Plaintiff and in the alternative the return of
moneys paid to the Defendant Benjamin Culpan for
the use of the Plaintiff and Damages and in the
further alternative rescission of the said Agreement
and the return of all moneys paid thereunder together
with Interest.
AND TAKE NOTICE that the Court has by Order
dated the seventeenth day of October 1.932 authorised
service of the said writ on you by filing in the
Registry of the Supreme Court at Rockhampton and
fixing on the notice board in the said Registry a
copy of the abovementioned Order and of the Writ
of summons and also by service of Notice of tin-
said Order and Writ on Mr. D. P. Carey of Rock-
hampton in the State of Queensland Solicitor and
on Messieurs Grant and Stumm of Rockhampton
aforesaid Solicitors and also by the publication of
the said Notice once in each of the following news-
papers namely “The Rockhampton Morning Bulletin"
“The Brisbane Courier” and the Sydney Bulletin.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required within
thirty days from the date of the last publication of
the said notice to cause an appearance to be entered
for you at the Registry of the Supreme Court of
Queensland at Rockhampton and that in default of
your so doing the Plaintiff may proceed in the
action and that judgment may be given against
you in your absence.
Dated this twenty-seventh day of October, 1932.
(1.5.) J. R. GAIR,
Registrar.
B. M. LILLEY & LILLEY,
Solicitors for Plaintiff,
19 William Street, Rockhampton.
TO ALFRED JAMES TAYLOR SON OF ADA
TAYLOR DECEASED WHO DIED IN NEW
ZEALAND ON THE sth DAY OF AUGUST 1931
AND TO ALL PERSONS CLAIMING BY THROUGH
OF UNDER HIM.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court Of
New Zealand you are hereby called upon to send to
me on or before the 31st day of December 1932 your
claims to the estate of the abovenamed deceased
failing which the said estate will be distributed
disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 27th day of Sep-
tember, 1932.
CHAS. E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS 10It COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Hold My Hand”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
King's “Autumn Crocus”
State Movies and Talkies
A Peep at Parliament
It was an off day for the N. S. Wales
Parliament when Frith and the Showman
decided that a prowl around the pur-
lieus of the stately fane in Macquarie-
street might cast some light upon the
influence of environment on the develop-
ment of species. According to the Opposi-
tion newspapers the Government party at
the time was by schisms rent asunder and
by heresies distressed over the Moratorium
Bill, and the lawmakers had been given
a holiday while the schisms were being
patched and the heresies made orthodox.
This was all to the good, as it would enable
the investigators, so they thought, to con-
centrate on the environment without being
distracted by the environed. With an
orderly desire to put first things first, they
sought out good Mr. Fennings, who owns the
Ijeg. Council when
the President is
out, and asked
leave to inspect
the Upper Cham-
ber.
This apartment,
it may be said at
once, is a fraud.
It isn’t upper at
all, being on the
same floor as the
Lower House, and
its seats are not
plush, as has been
represented in the
public prints, but
are upholstered in
dilapidated black
leather. Its fagade,
by w’hich French
word is meant the
front of the out-
“Good Mr. Fennings,
who owns the Leg.
Council.”
side, is made of cast-iron, and is the
only cast-iron fagade on any Parliament
House in the world. It was brought
to Australia, by Captain Cook or Gov-
ernor Phillip, as ballast. Whichever of
Giem it was knew it was a rough,
stern land he was going to, and that its
Parliamentary institutions would have to
stand an awful strain. That fagade has
braved the battle and the breeze without get-
ting dinted, but the roof started to collapse
a few r years ago, the result of a terribly
vivid dado that was applied to the walls.
They whitewashed the dado and shored up
the ceiling, and the place then looked nearly
as dreadful’as ever.
It may not be generally known, but the
first legislators were Romans. Busts of
them, complete with upper portions of togas,
stand primly round the walls, at the back
of the back seats. Cassius Macarthur hath
a lean and hungry
look, but Publius
Wentworth, the
noblest Roman of
them all, is bodied
forth in counter-
fe i t presentment
w T ith a look of such
high contempt that
it may be deemed
he thinks but poor-
ly of the results
of his literary
labors. He wrote
the Constitution of.
New South Wales
on wax tablets,
with a stylus, and
it is kept in a fire-
proof safe just in-
flkle the front door
at the Lowe r
"The noblest Roman
of them all.”
House. The safe is never opened.
The Upper House is also equipped with two
hour-glasses. These are used, not for exacti-
tude in the boiling of eggs, but to allot time
ro members to assemble for divisions. One
is twice as big as the other, but the catch
about it is that the little one takes twice
as long to run out as the big one. If the
Leader of the Upper House finds most of
the Opposition are absent he grabs the big
one, and in two shakes of a lamb’s tail the
doors are locked and a thumping Govern-
ment majority is recorded. But if the Oppo-
sition are in full force, and the Govern-
ment’s old gentlemen are missing, he grabs
the little hour-glass and sends trusty mes-
sengers to scour the purlieus for the sup-
porters of right-thinking. These hour-glasses
were the gift to the Chamber of Decimus
Rafferty, a fine figure of a man. D. Raf-
ferty’s toga is now used to keep dust off
the mace and other hardware in the Lower
House.
Fortunate indeed were the investigators
in finding, while prowling into places where
they had no earthly right to go, one of the
present - day Tri-
bunes of the
People. He was
quietly writing in
the Country party’s
pretty bungalow
when Frith and
the S h o w m a n
bumbled in, and,
instead of getting
huffy, as he well
might, he treated
them as nicely as
if they had been
constituents or
even more nicely—
and showed them
all the historic-
features of the
Lower House. This
Member’s con-
stituency is bor-
“A Tribune of the
People.”
dered on the south by the Victorian
frontier, on the north by the eternal
snows of Kosciusoo, on the east by the
Tasman Sea and on the west by the
Never-Never, and it covers either 200 or
200,000 square miles. He has been repre-
senting all this landscape with its teeming
population for years and years and years,
but is not a bit stuffy about it. It was
he who introduced the investigators to a
remarkable property of one of the two clocks
which decorate the balconies of the Assembly
chamber. Several times it has been noted
that this clock divides the hour, not into
GO, but into 72 divisions; yet on other occa-
sions it is just like other ’ clocks. It was
just like other clocks on the day the inves-
tigators counted it. There isn’t much else
in the popular forum worth , noting, save a
very sleepy portrait of Sir Henry Parkes.
Luckily this isn’t the only one extant of
the Horatius of North Sydney. “Hop” and
Phil May saw to that.
The library of the House is better lit
than either of the legislative chambers, but
there its attrac-
tions end. Cross-
examined, a lib-
ra ri an admitted
that it didn’t con-
tain much fiction,
and the Tribune
who took the inves-
tiga t o r s there
added testimony
that it was well-
nigh impossible to
find hi it a really
good yarn one
hadn’t read before.
So instead the
party had a look at
the dining - room,
the chief treasures
of which are the
biggest canteen of
silverware in Syd-
ney and a little
“Phil May saw to
that.”
counter where, as was demonstrated, the
main brace may be spliced. The U.A.P.
room is notable for the vast quantities of
stationery on view. These Uniteds must be
prodigious correspondents. Noting en pas-
■ sant, which is a chess term, that the toma-
toes in the Country party’s garden are look-
ing well, the investigators turned their atten-
tion to some of the literature with which
most of the corridors of the building are
lined. A chatty brochure dated ISol—“By-
laws of Borneo”—looked as if it might be
interesting, but time pressed.
An adjournment was then made to the
Scene of the Crime. This is a very ordinary
and—save for an old sofa—Spartanly fur-
nished smoking-room. It was here on one
wild stormy night many years ago that the
Crime, the perpetrator of which has not to
this day been brought to the gallows, was
committed. A legislator, withdrawing to' this
apartment at the hour of 3.30 a.m. t 0 snatch
a little richly-earned repose, discovered on
awaking that his gold watch and chain, his
gold pass and other valuable personal pro-
perty were missing. The matter was reported
to the Stewards, who informed the Police.
But the legislator has not seen his watch
and other chattels from that day to this.
Well may it be
asked what the
Country is coming
to when sue h
things can befal
in the very Parlia
merit of the Second
City of the Em-
pire. Saddened by
such reflections,
the investigators
ran into an official
xvho informed them
that before they
could inspect tie
premises they must
get a permit from
the Sentinel at the
Portcullis, coun-
tersigned by Black
Rod, vised by the
Speaker, approved <
by the Clerk of
Parliaments and
engrossed on
"Rmhcd jortle into
the Sunshine.”
parchment by the Parliamentary Law
Draughtsman. “Too late, too late !” wailed
Frith, and stuffing his sketch-book into his
pocket he rushed forth into the sunshine of
Macquarie-street. The Showman had got
there two leaps ahead.
The impression conveyed by the Chung
Hwa Ivung Hwei’s (Chinese Citizens’
Society) production of “Ba Mou Tan,” a
thousand-year-old Chinese classic, at the
Temperance Hall, Melbourne, was that you
can accustom theatregoers to accept any
substitute for reality, however grotesque, if
you keep at it long enough. Viewed objec-
tively, the conventions of “Ba Mou Tan”
were no more ridiculous than the conven-
tions of “Un Ballo in Maschera,” lately per-
formed at the Royal. The part of Ba Mou
Tan, a humble maiden in a teashop who
falls in love with the son of a Prime Min-
ister, was taken by a well-nourished youth
whose feet were too large for a Chinese
lady, but whose voice apparently fulfilled
the requirements of Celestial traditions
governing girlish vocalism. It was an ear-
splitting falsetto. The solid phalanx of
Mongolian faces registered rapt attention.
It was difficult to believe that those fear-
some sounds represented for them a lyric
expression of the ecstasy of love, but so it
was. The hero, Moon Chen-wu, was more
understandable. His dancing gait .suggested
the amorous fighting-cock, though when it
came to an actual passage at arms with the
scoundrelly Duke Liu Bih Kwei, who had
kidnapped Moon’s sweetheart when she took
a bath in a lily pond, his ideas of the art
of self-defence would have made a six-year-
old Australian nipper blush. Another con-
vention of Chinese opera is that when a
hero is deprived of his love by the machina-
tions of his rival he should jump about the
stage like a chicken with its head chopped
off.
There is no nonsense about changing-
scenery. The property man drifts in and
out with an air of bored abstraction, re-
arranging the furniture when it has been
displaced by a particularly violent char-
acter, bringing the villain the fan or sword
he has forgotten, and hanging up little
notices in the Chinese language explaining
that the scene is now the Welcome Guests’
Pavilion, or a river bank, or a monastery.
The hero keeps arriving by one door like 'a
sudden draught, as the villain disappears
through another like a North Westralian
wnly-willy. In the most poignant scene Ba
Mou lan sat down and informed the audience
in her imperishable falsetto that she was fed
up with life and proposed to forsake it, where-
upon the obliging property man strolled in
with the cup of poison which she had
omitted to provide herself with before com-
ing on. This is something like service.
the feature which claims most atten-
tion is the orchestra. It consists of only
halt a dozen instruments—among them the
yoot kum, or moon organ; the yee
yin, or two-string banjo; the sam yin, or
three-string banjo, and the pap pam, which
sounds just like that —but the noise the
combination can make is out of all propor-
tion to the number of executants. It can
beat even a full J.C.W. opera orchestra
spurred on by Prof. Bernard Heinze. Like
Szigeti, the orchestra keeps all its tunes in
its head, and when the supply runs out it
I improvises. It occupies its rare moments
of silence by watching the prima donna, and
as soon as he/she opens his/her mouth it
breaks loose. A maniac in an iron tank
or harhor ferries in a fog are mere circum-
stances compared to it. The heroine may
sing as many wrong notbs as there are tins
of salmon in Bourke, but the audience won’t
know it. That is service again. You might
as well try to wrap fire in a paper parcel
as restrain a Chinese orchestra when it is
trying to protect the audience from the
prima donna.
There was a curtain-raiser to “Ba Mou
Tan” called “Dream in a Dream,” during
which the orchestra was silent. Presumably
it was storing up its energies. “Dream in
a Dream” was written by a Chinese G. B.
Shaw, judging by the length of some of the
speeches. It was evidently well served with
wit, for the audience laughed frequently. The
only joke which got home on the outer bar-
barians present occurred when the curtain
descended leaving the feet of the leading
man protruding on the house side of the
footlights. This was thoroughly appreciated
by the Chinese section of the audience as
well, showing that some sorts of humor are
international.
# # *
A badly cast ship’s company whistled in
Vain for a fair wind for “H.M.S. Pinafore”
at Melbourne Royal on Saturday. Except
for an occasional puff from First Lord Ivan
Monzies and the thoroughly able chorus, a
stark calm reigned. Mary Ilotham’s talents
were buried in the insignificant part of the
cousin to the admiral.
* V #
“The Pirates of Penzance” and “Trial
by Jury” went in double harness at Melb.
Royal, and “Patience” had two nights and
“The Mikado” a week of it. “Trial by
Jury” ranks as high as anything in the
G. and S. repertoire. It is jolly, goes with
a rush and has no pretensions to being
anything but a musical joke, at the expense
of nobody in particular. It is short, too,
and that is a virtue. Many second acts
in G. and S. are superfluous and have to
be endured because there are a couple of
good lyrics imbedded in them —“The Pirates,”
for example. Phil Smith sat on the bench
in place of Ivan, Menzies When this Show-
man saw “Trial by Jury,” and lie made a
first-rate Judge. As the plaintiff Marie
Brem.ner was at the top of her form wooing
the susceptible jury, and Bernard Manning
was a comically solemn Usher.
“The Mikado” was a brilliant perform-
ance, Marie Bremrier, Mary Hotham and
Elsie_ Scerri making an alluring trio of
giggling .Japanesc femininity. The G. and S.
masterpiece was played with gusto, but
“Patience,” which more or less survived two
nights, was boresome to a degree exceeded
only by “Ruddigore.” Gilbert was supposed
to be satirising the aesthetes —Oscar Wilde
and co. presumably—but we know more
about them nowadays, and “Patience” has
nothing to teach us. As an entertainment
it is full of large areas of arid jocularity.
Ivan Menzies, who always seems to" be stand-
ing outside himself, watching his own fooling
with his tongue in his cheek, made an admir-
able Bunthorne. But, after all, Bunthorne
is only a yokel’s idea of a poet. Evelyn
Gardiner’s haughty expression and rich con-
tralto voice were at the service of the Lady
Jane, and Marie Bremner was a delight-
fully artificial dairymaid. Latest advices
are that the promised “Sorcerer” will not
sorcer this season, and that on November
12 the co. will turn to “Lilac Time.”
Arthur Stigant will be torn from his re-
tirement to assume his old make-up of
Christian Veit, the glassmaker.
a.
Sydney Bush Walkers’ Club put on its
fifth annual entertainment at St. James’s
Hall last week. One-act plays, cleverly written
original burlesques, choruses, Lvillets, mono-
logues and other items made up a show that
went with a swing from curtain-rise to “God
Save.” Incidentally, the S.B.W.C. is the
pioneer of such organisations in Sydney, and
its pet detestation is that horrible word
“hiking.”
* *
At Sydney Savoy on Saturday the Inde-
pendent players staged Benn Levy’s “Mrs.
Moonlight.” Marie Rosenfeld, in the name
role, was effective as the young wife who,
on her 23rd birthday, realises that a wish
rashly uttered has been fulfilled and that
she is never to grow older. Terrified at the
thought she leaves her home and baby daugh-
ter. Her husband thinks she has committed
suicide. She returns after many years and
is not recognised, but in the end husband and
wife are reunited. Doris Fitton was pro-
ducer, and she and Gertrude Johns, Jane
Connolly, Alfred Race, Bruce Bennett-Smith,
Cyril Baskett and Richard Parry contri-
buted to the success of an unusual and well-
acted play. To be repeated on Saturday.
* * *
John Brownlee returned to the Melbourne
Town Hall platform on Saturday night in
company with the University Symphony
Orchestra, and an immense house listened
with approval to the eminent baritone in
familiar operatic numbers and Wagnerian
encores. Bernard Heinze introduced the
first performance in Australia of Sibelius’s
E minor symphony, op. 39. The absence
of a very defined structure made it hard
for the audience to take the work seriously
at a first sitting. The architect seems to
have plastered his building with queer-look-
ing gargoyles and unexpected projections.
Bits of orthodox orchestration were more
easily recognisable, but were also somewhat
commonplace. There were passages of
beauty in the edifice, which was of four
storeys and was well and truly built by
the University instrumentalists. The last
musical event, of the year wall be Brownlee
in the “Messiah” on December 20 and 24.
%■ * %•
This week the Nellie Bramley co., now
in its seventh month at Melb. Palace, is
concerned with "Relations,” a comedy in
three acts and a N’York millinery emporium
by Edward Clark. It is the story of the
indestructible family instinct of a Jewish
clan, whose members quarrel and take each
other down in small things, but when real
danger threatens reveal hearts of gold and
fists full of the same useful commodity to
be shared all round. In the present instance
it is the heroine’s husband who is supplied
with the cohesive material in the shape of
a legacy from Australia. Miss Bramley is
so often cast in the role of an innocent
sentimentalist that it is a ■wonder she
always does it with such freshness and
spontaneity. Lou Vernon paints an excel-
portrait of a Hebrew uncle whose
irritability is only skin-deep, and another
goqd character study is supplied by Ronald
Riley u s a Yiddish lawyer. The company
is steadily improving in its acting, and as
long as it sticks to the domestic emotions
there is no reason why the season shouldn’t
continue until the principals qualify for
the actors’ superannuation fund.
* * *
I orbidden Sweets,” which occupies the
second half of the bill at Sydney New
Tivoli, is merely a re-hash of “Cradle
Snatchers,” which set Sydney blushing a
lew years ago. Jack Russell is the lead-
mg funmaker, ably seconded by Len Rich,
the first half of the show consists of variety
turns of varying degrees of merit
* ¥ *
On Saturday the New Sydney Repertory
Society presented an American farce,
Little Sweetie,” which moves at breakneck
speed from beginning to end. Most of the
players found the tempo too fast. Alice
Boiger, who played a inan-chasing widow, and
Owen Grimchs, as her flapper daughter, stood
the pace best.
¥ ¥ *
The Thorndike season opened at Brisbane
His Majest.\ s last week with “Saint Joan,”
an interlude in which on Monday evening
was a welcome on the stage to Captain
Hans Bertram. “Ghosts,” “Medea” Cap-
tain Brassbound’s Conversion” and “Madame
1 lays Nap” are to be played during the
three weeks season.
* * #
Mo, Syd Beck and 50 others, including the
Exquisite Eight and the eight Con-Paul
Boys, are in occupation of the Tiv. in Mel-
bourne and all is joy once more in that art
emporium.


The centre of
the Social World.
The luxurious appointments—the unostentatious
and efficient service—the modern furnishings of the
airy bedrooms —the delectable dishes created by a
chef whose menus are a gem of epicurean delights—
the perfect refinement that subtly permeates the
atmosphere of this popular Hotel—all create an
enviable reputation for the Carlton that is thor-
oughly appreciated by Country, Interstate and
Overseas visitors, as well as the Society world of
Sydney.
“The customer is the Company’s guest,’’ which is
forcefully illustrated in the satisfying of every whim
of every guest by the management. Make the
Carlton your rendez-
vous for your vacation
—your afternoon-tea
parties—your lunch or
dinner —or after-
theatre suppers.
The Carlton
Hotel,
Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
K. A. WOOLDRIDGE,
Managing Director.
Cable—Radio —Telegraph:
“HOCAR,” Sydney.
Telephone:
86141 06 lines).
DINING ROOM
mmmmx
* v.
-■
mm
LOUNGE.
I m
" CS-
ARTIFICIAL head*!
& 8
‘‘■ vi/eo <e bottled fP
<; ,H MO ND. N-5-
R EWING C9.PTr. |
• r »BuaouftNfc Mi
k (y /x ‘'nsrß/'u« avyj
S&esEiw^SZl
DRINK YOUR
Rich mond
AT
The Carlton
In keeping with its policy to
serve its customers with the
best, the Carlton makes a
special feature of the products
of Richmond Brewery.
In the Bars, Lounges, or at
your meals you can order Rich-
mond Bitter, Lager, Pilsner or
Stout, all 100 p.c. pure.
The Carlton being recognised as
a hotel of quality, it stocks only
quality products—"-hence the
availability of Richmond Brews.
/OOZPure


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World's Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital .. .. .. . . .. £241,341
Atnount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . . . , . . . . £3,500,000
Total Reserves approximately . . . . . . . . . . £900,000
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately . . £500,000
Area Planted . . . . . . . . . . . . 132,126 Acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St, George’s,Terrace, Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at. London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong, San Francisco, Vancouver and Paris.
4; %r
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Creseent, Cauiiieid,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Tiki”: An interesting addition to the in-
digenous fauna of Maoriiand, just recently
discovered, is a giant snail. It inhabits
mountain heights and lonely forests, and pro-
bably wouldn’t know what to do with a cab-
bage or a prize rose if it found one. Living
away from gardens and other civil.sing influ-
ences as they do, these creatures, whose shells
grow up to 3in. in diameter,’ have developed
strange and revolting tastes. Not to put
too fine a point upon it, they are cannibals.
This was discovered when the survey engineer
who first came across' then) put four in a
box, with a nice supply of lettuce-leaves and
other —as he thought—suitable food. When
he opened the box some weeks later there
was only one snail in residence, and' he looked
a lot fatter than when fie was put in. The
carnivorous monsters seem to be related to
Paryplianta hoclcstettcri bioolor, which fre-
quents mountainous country in the northern
end of the South Island. The new species
has been named Paryphanta marchanti in
honor of its discoverer, E. A. Marchant, of
Wanganui.
* * $ *
“O. W. Waireki”: I was working with
Henare, who was stripped to the waist,
when light rain commenced to fall. The
native quickly rescued his shirt from a
near-by pest. ’ and stowed it away under a
dry log. “Why don’t you put it on?” I
asked. Henare beamed. “I never want to
get it wet,” he answered. “Te missus ko
to ped in it.”
“Scpik”: Our Mandated Territory nurse-
maid, though amoral, objects to “funny busi-
ness.” -One morning there was great excite-
ment on the. verandah as she was about to
take the babe for its usual early stroll. It
seemed that-some languishing swain had, in
the night, carefully spread “poison” at all
points of egress from the house. Had the
lady unwittingly walked over the bunch of
green stuff, she would have been compelled
to accede to all the requests of the one who
had placed it there. With loud-voiced and
blasphemous denunciations she appealed to
the Kiap, who, for the sake of peace, care-
fully placed the poison in a large bucket of
water, thus bringing to naught the foul
machinations of the rejected lover. The much
sought-after lady was continually finding
magic in her path, and making long detours.
She regarded love-philtres as most unsporting.
* * *
“Sylvester”: We were on the verandah'
of Casey’s pub listening to Jack Collins
telling us what a remarkably smart chap
he is. A small blue car pulled up, and one
of the drunkest men I ever saw fell out
of it, dragging a swag rolled in a brown
blanket after him. As the car vanished in
the dust again, the inebriate dropped his
swag on the verandah, and wobbled towards
Jack. “ ’Scuse me,” he said, “didn’t I meet
you in Palestine.” “Of course you did, old
chap,” said Jack. “I’m Pontius Pilate.
Don’t you remember I lent you two bob?”
“Ponchus Pilate lent me two bob in Pales-
tine?” murmured the drunk bemusedly.
“Yes, how about paying me back.” And
Jack held out Ms hand. The drunk dug
his hand into his pocket and drew out some
coins. Deliberately selecting one he dropped
it in Jack's hand. Then he said “Come
and ’ave a drink, come on boys,” and col-
lapsed all over Jack. We filed into the bar.
WIDOW'S WEEDS.
THE BOOS: “Very sorry to hear Jacky died. What was wrong with him, Mary?”
MARY: “’E bin too plurry lazy to carry his age”
Our new friend had no sooner swallowed his
drink than he became violently sick and
rushed out by the back door. After he went
out someone suggested that Jack should
shout, seeing that he was two bob in. Jack
placed his right hand in his trousers pocket,
groped, and suddenly dived at his left
pocket, at the same time looking around
the bar floor. “Cripes, I’ve lost two notes
and some silver,” he exclaimed. “Did he
get his own two bob, too?” asked one of
the crowd. “What,” roared Jack, “you
don’t mean to say that drunken cow got it
when he was mauling me? He’s too drunk
to go far, anyhow.” And he bolted in search
of our recent visitor. We strolled on to the
verandah, and I noticed that the swag was
gone. Just then Dave Mitchell came. canter-
ing around the bend. He pulled up in front
as Jack came rushing out. “Did. you see a
drunken bloke with a swag rolled in a brown
blanket?” yelled Jack. “I see a bloke back
there with a swag rolled in a brown blanket,
but he didn’t seem shickered.” “Where is
lie? Where is he? Lend me your horse,”
wailed Jack, and he grabbed the reins as
Dave dismounted. “Just round the bend,”
said Dave; “he got in a little blue car with
another bloke and they drove off like blazes.”
:*« ❖ H* Ms
“Mundowie”: Rc bell stations (B.
19/10/’32). In the early days, when the
blacks were bad, bells were erected at many
isolated homesteads. During the day the
station hands would be scattered about, some
a good distance away; but there was always
someone on watch. When there was danger
of an attack he rang the bell, and all hands
downed tools and rushed up to defend the
place. Sometimes it was necessary to ring, it
at night, but it was never used otherwise than
as a cail to arms. When the “black days”
passed, the bells on most of the places fell
into disuse. The term “bell stations” was
applied to those that retained the jingler,
and others that- installed it at a later
time as a time bell, especially for
pre-daylight rising. The bells were on
small homesteads as well as big ones. They
reminded me of some early-time cockies on
the Richmond River, who vied with each
other in being up first. - The earliest riser
blew a foghorn,, but he generally,blew it from
the bedroom'window before he had dressed.
One night Dad Slocum, after husking corn
till 11.30, and regaling himself with —nr—
coffee, blew a loud blast before getting into
bed. After that foghorns were out of
fashion.
* * * *
“Dimon”: The only water at The Granites
is an abo. well. These wells are scat-
tered over most of. the dry country, par-
ticularly on routes where there is a long
distance from one natural reservoir to
another, and are of many different kinds.
The common well is cunningly devised to
trick the stranger. A shaft is sunk a few
feet deep, then a drive is made from tlie
bottom of it, and at the end of that the
excavation is carried down. The hidden part
often contains w-ater when a stranger, looking
into the open part, thinks the well is dry.
A simpler reservoir is made on claypans soon
after rain. A sheet of bark is placed at
the bottom of-a bole, which is filled by water
runping into it from the claypan; then bark
is placed on the top and covered with earth
or sand. Water remains there for a con-
siderable time after the claypan has dried.
The permanent wells are fed by soakage
water, and are generally as hard to find as
the secret rockholes. Binghi takes no
chances with his water supply in a land
that is mostly thirst.
“Aplanges” : There is a story attached to
an old wooden rudder to be seen on Warrior
Island, Torres Strait. It is a relic of a
French sailing ship that called in there for
repairs. The natives assisted in the work,
and expected some reward, but the ship
sailed away without even a word of thanks.
Many years later Bligh came along and the
natives seized on this opportunity to wipe
out the old score. Unluckily for them a
warship was p'foof against their primitive
weapons, but it was not until they had been
three times repulsed that they gave up.
Bligh later made friends with them and it
was in recognition; of their bravery that
he called the islet ! by the name it bears
to-day.
* * * *
“Avis”: Queer family affinities are not
uncommon in the animal world, but one on
show at Port Kembla (N.S.W.) is in a
class by itself. A pet magpie laid a couple
of eggs, and its owners, judging these would
be infertile, substituted two bantam’s eggs.
Maggie hatched these; and is feeding the
chicks as she would her own offspring—
by bill, so to speak. The chickens seem to
have accepted the (to them) utterly foreign
method without demur.
“Ornis” : Though the colored feathers men-
tioned in the description of the durable duck
shot by “Antipas”, (B. 26/10/’32) are a bit
out of the picture, the rest of the descrip-
tion measures up to the rather rare musk
duck. This bird is about the toughest of the
feathered kingdom, even giving in the big blue
fruit pigeons of Papua. This toughness
is the more surprising since the fowl under
discussion never flies unless it is forced to fly.
As a diver, the musk duck is without a peer
and it is generally regarded as a boon and
a blessing to cartridge-makers.
* * * *
“Segnalpa”: While compiling a record
of wrecks in Torres Strait, I questioned
Maino, an old native chief, whose memory
c Y . Ved many instances. Of one ship he
said, “I no savvy. We no savvy read then, so
his name I do not know.” Then, after a
few moments’ thought: “I savvy. He proper
French ship. Suppose he English, he carry
proper grog. This fellow have only wine.”
GOING FISHING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The fishing season has opened in the Federal
Capital Territory, where more than 250,000 trout
have been liberated in the last three years.”
Now’s the season when the gentle angler
packs the. elemental . ,
Implements and lures and weapons, signs
and tokens of his craft;
See, his reels and lines are tested and his
flies are tied and crested,
And he bears his rod before him and his
creel is buckled aft.
Now’s the time when Canberra’s calling with
empressement that’s enthralling
To the chattering, rippling,, brawling
brooks and rivers thereabout, .
Where a thoughtful legislature’s remedied
a slip of Nature
By releasing just a quarter of a million
of trout.
Now the tired politician finds a pleasant
intermission
From the strain of feud and faction, party
platforms and thpir planks.
How exultantly he’ll hale his struggling
Sahno fontinalis '■
From the clean and pebbly rapids to the
Murrumbidgee’s banks.
There is no voracious otter lurking ’long the
silver Cotter,
No abominable poacher with some foul
old-world device
To make rascally assault on the prerogatives
of Walton ;
Here if ever, here ■ if anywhere’s the
angler’s paradise.
Now that lusty trout are biting, Ins and
Outs may cease their fighting,
If it’s only for a week-end, to compare
their gaudy flies,
Stress the merits of a hackle, dissertate on
hooks and tackle,
Garnish individual catches with the cus-
tomary lies.
Soon upon dry land will flounder many a
six- or seven-pounder
Till upon the scale he’s balanced, sanguine
estimates to kill.
And they’ll drink his health in pongelo by
the picturesque Molonglo
Or in grog by Goodradigbee—you can bet
your boots they will.
STATIONARY.
THE CLUB OPTIMIST: “Your business still at the old address?"
THE CLUB PESSIMIST: “Yes, thanks; quite still.”
Now from upland shacks and chalets forth
November’s angler sallies,
Isaak Walton’s understudy, though his
pose is quite unlike.
Still, his contemplated loot is just the same
old speckled beauties,
So they’re pals across the ages, he and
philosophic Ike.
Out upon the guff they wheeze out featuring
Canberra a freeze-out,
And the tales about their hardships exiled
civil servants spin!
Why, there’s trout in leaping legions in
those beatific regions,
Waiting to be lured and landed —and the
fishing season’s in!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


THIS LARGE INSURANCE COMPANY
CONSIDERED THE “COURIER” TO BE
The Very Best Medium
The Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance Co. sought the most effective and economical
method of making an announcement to Queensland people. They chose the “Brisbane
Courier,” and wrote us:—
you may be interested to know that those present were unanimous in
saying that the *Brisbane Courier’’ was the very best medium , for that teas the
paper they always noticed in the homes of the people with whom they came in
contact .
(Signed) “A. J. HENDERSON,
“General Manager.”
The “Brisbane Courier” has been “the very best medium” for 87 years.
&/ye
Brisbane Courier
Representative: ROBT. D. FISHER, 7 h Pitt Street, Sydney—Bsool.
PROGRESS
If you contemplate the future, as we all can and do, you must
gather some conception of the enormous progress that civilisation will
inevitably make within the probable period of your life.
You must realise, too, that such progress will be the sum total ot
all individual endeavors. Thus you will realise, no doubt have alrea y
accepted, your own part in this great forward movement which is
progress. If you are to play your part valuably, you must not be a
drag upon any other section of the community, but in one respect at
least you can provide against this.
The Savings Account will help you build your career, help you
to independence, and therefore to a useful place as a citizen. Very
little money is required to start an account, which will cost you only
the decision to open it, and to faithfully maintain it, for your own
and, therefore, for the general national welfare.
Cbmmonwcaltb Savinas JBankof Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
" “MurrungurryThe shed rouseabout
these times enjoys a run of comparative
opulence. In the pound-a-hundred days, ’
when hand-shearing was at its best, the
knights of the blades regarded the. rousy as
an inferior person. Their pet names for
him were Loppy and Wop Wop—suggested
by the sound of the sheepskin mocassins as 1
the .picker-up bounded up and down the board.
The shearers’ cook also regarded himself as
a step above the chef who babbled for the
Wop Wops. At the roll-call at one shed
there were three candidates for the cook-
house. Flourbags, who came a close second
in the main ballot, was offered the job of
dishing up for the rouseabouts. “No, thank
you,” replied Flourbags scornfully. “I’m a
shearers' cook.”
* * *
“Porosus”: Officers from a steamer which
recently cast up in Sydney froze the blood of
the. “Herald” with accounts of the crocodiles
which rage about the Solomon Islands. Much
of the ship’s loading is done from the island
beaches, and it is quite a common thing, it
seems, to hear screams from the local beach
laborers’ federation because a croc, has come
ashore and waddled off with a financial
member. One adventurer, shooting pigeons in
the jungle, trod on and was chased by a
crocodile, which repeatedly tried to dong him
A MATTER OF CUSTOM.
FIRST LITTLE MISSION LADY: “Eve must have been uncomfortable the first time she put
on her fig-leaf.”
SECOND DITTO: “Yes, dear. She must have simply felt smothered.”
with its tail. Fortunately the thickness of
the iungle cramped the brute’s style and left
the shooter to skite another day. A long
nersonal experience of crocodiles in North
Queensland and some of the island groups
has convinced me that they are a timid lot.
The same is true of tigers; in both eases
the, maneater crops up once in a thousand
cases.
* * * *
“Cooramin”: Before “Canning Downs
rushes in to contradict another contributor
he ought to read his subject matter a little
more carefully. He asks (B. 19/10/32)
“Where did ‘Cooramin’ get his authority for
saying Jdndaryan station on the Darling
Downs was once owned by Tyson?” What
I said was (B. 21/9/’32) “I camped one
August night near a homestead north of Jon-
daryan.... The place belonged to Tyson.’
Jondaryan was mentioned because, with
Jondoey township, it ; is the chief feature
along that road to the Darling Downs and
the Condamine.
* * :Jc %
“Kariali”: Animal electricity is present in
large quantities in the Australian numb-fish,
which is flat, brick-red in color, and in
shape very similar to a two-shilling piece
and a threepenny bit. The head is raised
like the bull-nosed ray, but unlike the bull-
nose the numb-fish is incapable of very great
speed, and flaps along in a very leisurely
manner even when boats are in the vicinity.
Contact with the side or belly of the fish
causes an electric discharge, and that
received from the spine of the creature is
severe.
* * * *
“Kranicli” : The brolga is not peculiar in
his possession of a circumgyratory gullet (B
2/11/’32). It is common to all the cranes,
and other birds are blessed in the same way
—the ostrich and his,kindred, the emus and
the rheas, for instance. Some of the storks
also have odd fitments of the kind. The
adjutant bird, with which travellers in India
and some parts of Africa arc familiar, is a
notable example. He has a lingo neck pouch
—apart from the familiar bird crop—into
which his meal goes as a preliminary. Many
years ago Calcutta and Bombay , stevedores
were fond of teasing these voracious birds
whenever a steamer fitted with refrigerating
apparatus came alongside. There were
always adjutants about —they are not only
sacred birds but are protected by Govern-
ment as scavengers-—and the jest was to
throw one of them a lump of ice, which was
always eagerly gobbled. The bird’s subse-
quent performances furnished the entertain-
ment, for he could not disgorge. Nowadays
there is not an adjutant bird from the Terai
to Cormorin who can be persuaded to try a
piece of ice.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: It was like a breath of old times
to read that a shearer up Armidale way had
been “woodheaped” for refusing to take out
his A.W.U. ticket. “Woodheaping” is about as
old as shearing in Australia. In pre-union
days it was applied to the man who made him-
self a general nuisance to his fellows or proved
otherwise undesirable. It consists in expel-
ling the offender from the shearers’ mess,
with the result that lie has to have his meals
in solitude, sitting on the woodheap, which
lies behind every shed cookhouse, and eating
just what the Babbling Brook likes to give
him. If he should object, the whole strong
right arm of the shearing board is ready to
enforce the judgment.
“Wyara”: In Brisbane’s Botanic Gardens
man has prolonged the life of many old trees.
A 30-year-old Poinciana regia was sickly,
and it was found that water was lodging in
a cavity. All rot was removed, the hole was
SOON QUENCHED.
MRS. MAGGS: “Does your old man’s temper go down as. quickly as it flares up.-
MRS. DAGGS: “Yes I’ve only got to pick up th’ rolling pin."
filled with cement, and to-day the tree is
flourishing. Dozens of other trees have been
preserved or rejuvenated by the removal of
old wood as it died, and the use of tar on
weak places in the scarred b°lcs to protect
tiiem from moisture.
“E.S.”: Jingling Jimmy, of
the Sunset Track, had a team
bullock called Brandy, a power-
ful animal that had won him
many a pulling match. The
bullock tug-of-war was one time
common amongst teamsters, and
Brandy was a champion at the
game. ’ Before a contest Jimmy
always gave him—secretly—a
glass of brandy in half a bucket
of water. Brandy’s last pull
was at Rogan’s pub, near the
border, when he won Jimmy a
tenner. Jimmy hardly saw day-
light till the tenner was done;
then, to his great sorrow, he
found Brandy dead in a dry
gully. As he stood blinking at
the - corpse, he mumbled : “Poor
old Brandy! You’re gone now,
but. I’ll take your hide off for
remembrance.” He made him-
self an extra-special bunk with
it, slung under the tail of his
big table-top waggon; and
whenever brother teamsters
smoked a pipe at his camp,
Jimmy’s reminiscences invari-
ably began with “That there
bunk” —— His final remark
was also directed to the quad-
ruped’s remains. “Well, Brandy,
old boy,” he said, as he knocked
the ashes from his pipe, “I
suppose it’s about time I turned
into your hide.” One morning,
up on the Wilson, they found
Jimmy dead in it, and for .want
of other material they made it his shroud and
coffin. ,
“Freeman Sandom” : The life of the trap-
fisherman in the glorious North Queensland
climate' is enviable. He lias a peep at his
box once or twice a day and, when the size
of the catch warrants it, rows or phut-
phuts to town. There the dealer pays him
6d. or Td. a pound, or if he hawks it from
door to door the public will pay Is. or more
for good fish. The rest of the time he
potters about with his boats or with a te\v
head of poultry. Ilis earnings are not great
—£2 to £3 a week is all he can expect—
but then he has no rent to pay and his
tailor’s bill is next to nothing. But tne
trap fisherman can always find something
to grumble about. His wire-netting rusts
in twelve months, necessitating replacement
at a cost of £3O or so, and a few weeks
of muddy work, and at any time a storm
may blow the whole. structure away.
“Pick”: Fishing for snapper off Borma-
gui, on the N.S.W. South Coast, Jack
Warne hauled up on one of the snoods a
huge conger. To retrieve his hook he severed
the head with a cleaver, and threw
the rest overboard. The decapitated mon-
strosity blindly wriggled away. An hour
later it was still full of life, squirming about
the sides of the launch.
❖ ❖ * !i!
“C. Coral”: The lightship Carpentaria,
which marks the position of a shoal some
miles from Booby Island, at the western
approaches to Torres Strait has a habit of
breaking adrift. The-Nieuw Holland, passing
along the course to Australia the other day,
found that the Carpentaria vyas drifting miles
away in a westerly direction. The Clan
Mackay picked the lightship up and took
her in tow; she was then GO miles from
her correct position. On the way into
Thursday Island the stray still behaved in
a refractory manner, entangling the tow rope
in the ship’s propellor. She has no steer-
ing apparatus of her own, which makes
her difficult to handle.
“Mundowie”: The amateur gardener who
seeks to cultivate .native plants has to know
something about the conditions under which
they thrive naturally. A botanist tried
unsuccessfully for years to get the Karambi
shrub ( Nitraria schoberi) to flovver. At
last he gave the roots a good soaking with
salt water. Then it bloomed. Success was
also subsequently achieved by mixing salt
with the garden soil.
* * *
“C. Coral”: Jimmy Susu has been con-
siderably interested in the pictures of Syd-
ney bridge which the illustrated papers have
served up for him; but on Maburag Island,
Torres Strait, lie now has a six-foot model
to gaze upon. It is the work of the Gov-
ernment school-teacher, and is complete
with shipping passing beneath (including a
model of the Strathnaver) and a stream
of car, rail and pedestrian traffic going over
the bridge itself. This school owns several
other fine models of great engineering works,
including the. Suez canal and Tilbury docks.
THE MURRUMBIDGEE BARGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a stir along the river,
And it’s “busy time” in Hay,
When the straining teams deliver
Giant loads from far away;
And the bales glide down the pinches,
And the neat grey stacks grow large,
Tq the rattle of the winches
On the Murrumbidgee barge.
Ere her consort starts a-towing,
Other clips, stream into Hay,
While Balranald’s dumps are growing
Ten-score river-miles away;
And at Tupra, heaped for freighting—
There the Lachlan teams discharge—
More grey piles of bales are waiting
For the Murrumbidgee, barge.
As a lazy giant wallows,
On the tow-rope stout and strong,
Dodging snags and muddy shallows.
Dawn to dusk she ploughs along,
Round the long bends ever turning,
Broad deep bows .the tracks enlarge
That the paddle-wheels are churning
’Fore the Murrumbidgee barge.
Day by day they twist and hurry,
And the gums go gliding by,
On the long way to the Murray,
Oft with red dust in the sky;
While the bagmen and the whalers
; Camped along the river ‘marge
Send a greeting to the sailors
On the Murrumbidgee barge.
N.s.w.
E. S. SORENSON.


CLUB REIL
A Choice Ciga
'**•***.
■
6 D
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital £8,780,000
Reserve Fund 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 .. .. .. £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON,
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St,, E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
SMOKE-OH!
Lyons is now known as the man who took
the ban off bananas.
* V-
The Sydney bathing season is being
ushered in with the usual arguments as to
whether girls should wear neck-to-knees or
next-to-nothing.
* *
“The men were told that no more jobs would be
available before Christmas.”— “Sun.”
Isn t this starting the Christmas waits
rather early?
* *
KIDDIES’ KOLUMN.
“Directions are given for Puzzle-Making for the
Young Folk.”— “Age..”
For this week, kiddies, Aunt Hydro-
phobia has looked you out two interesting
little teasers, which will also prove very
useful as you grow older.
The Disappearing Colors.— One little boy
a_nd any number of little girls can play at
this ingenious brain-twister. The little boy
takes the girls out of the room and pretends
to have te a or go to the theatre with them,
and they all see how hard they can lean
their heads on his shoulder. The puzzle is
for him to take off his coat without letting
his other little playmate—know 7 n as his
‘‘wife”—see the different colored hairs on it.
If she does he must explain how they got
there without letting her suspect the other
girls. Try this—it’s really fascinating.
The Hidden Pennies. —This is made out of
a block of wood called a “husband,” a piece
of string and several coins. The coins are
hidden in the “husband.” and by “having
him on a piece of string,” as it' is called,
they must be detached. Another way to work
the puzzle is to hold the “husband” in a
horizontal position, signifying sleep, and try
RUININ’ A MAN’S LIFE.
“You beat your wife unmercifully, and, so far as I can see, without
the smallest 'provocation!”
“Beg parding, y’Onor—she gives me a secret, cure, and spoils me
taste for beer. Ain’t that provocation, y’Onor? Too right
it is!”
to tip the coins out of him without bringing
him upright. If you do, it signifies that
you have awakened him and have lost that
game.
T. P. B.
“Melbourne’s Feast of Good Horses.’
-—Cup Week heading.
Well, we’ve all had to put up with some
queer meals since the depression began.
Australia’s wide open spaces are begin-
ning to figure in her tariff walls.
* *
“I was attracted to politics by the facilities for
wide travel that the life gives, but was warned
against it by my father.”— Melb. witness.
As Longfellow put it. “ ‘Try not the pass,’
the old man said.”
* H-
CONVERTING THAT OLD SET.
The time inevitably comes when you
realise that the contraption to whose yells
and whistles you have listened for so long
is done for. Hav-
ing dismantled the
old warrior, set
about choosing a
circuit, and in this
regard let it be
said right away
that it is a mis-
take to go in for
one that is too
simple. Be ambi-
tious. Try, say, a
12 - valve ull ra-
selective superhet.
The plan, at first
glance, will re-
semble a pak-a-pu
ticket on which a
dipsomaniac ha s
been scrawling
with a spiral
spring dipped in
ink. Still, if in-
telligently followed,
all should be well.
The wiring may
give trouble. You
may make the slip
of connecting the
electrolytic coil
condenser across the
mfd. voltage poten-
tiometer to the
padder - resistance
goggles wizzer, thus
causing a short
and blowing out
all your valves (12
at, say, 16s. ea.).
When one of your
children, who of
course will be look-
ing on and asking
questions, wants to know if you can make
the funny sound again, just walk out and
weed the garden for an hour to recover the
right poise.
The work being duly completed, with the
last oscillating grid detector and semi-fixed
bypass choke leak connected up, you will
find that there are sufficient parts over for
another 1J sets. These can be kept as
spares. The great moment has now arrived '
to try your model out. Switch on the cur-
rent. The absence of any ominous fizzing
sound may be taken as a good omen. Try
to pick up, not a simple local station, but
a remote on e.
VK6LM Copenhagen
will do for a start.
A silence, morgue-
like in its intensity,
may—in fact, pro-
bably will—be the
result. Still, don’t
d e s p a i r. Atmo-
spherics may not be
suitable. Try in-
stead J.T2.T Japan,
which is nearer
home. Again silence.
Now approach care-
fully, so as to avoid
the powerful blare,
one of the local B
class stations.
Silence again, which
will bo broken by
the wife remarking
that she thinks
something must be
wrong with the set.
Let the unwomanly
sneer pass. Clear
the house, take your
set to pieces, re-
assemble it, and keep
on doing so until
you have it in work-
ing order. Mean-
while avoid brood-
ing on the ill-timed
jokes of members of
your family and
friends. Keep your
temper at all haz-
ards. Men who
, failed to do so have
seen known to sacrifice small fortunes in
wireless plant in the course of brief bursts
of uncontrollable passion.
„ S. W. K.
* ¥
“Mr P. F. Warner says England will be glad to
know that if the Tests are lost it won’t be from
want of trying.”— “Herald.”
Woodfull will also be glad to know they’re
all out.
THE COMPLETE ANIMAL.
“There is much that is animal in man.”
• —Sydney preacher.
Perfectly true. Man has some horse
sense, as a rule, though inclined to be a
gay dog, while his wife is a bit of
a eat, and his mother-in-law he considers
a fair cow. “Brute” is her pet name for
him; and sometimes she refers to him as
"Don't forget, Daddy—Christmas next month, and I still believe
in Santa Claus.”
“that beast.” He feels that ho made a goat
of himself when he married, but looks like
a sheep when his wife hears him say so. He
goes to work like a snail, laughs like a
hyaena if he thinks he has beaten the boss
(who often refers to him as “that worm”),
drinks like a fish when he gets the chance —
for he has a neck like a giraffe—and makes
a hog of himself from time to time. He
likes to be the lion of a social evening, but
if somebody remarks that he is a skunk he
gets the hump.
Dressed like a peacock when he can afford
it, he is an ape of his betters and a lion in
the presence of hi.s inferiors; and he does
best when he has the hide of a hippopo-
tamus. jj jyj
WHILE VICTORIA SLEEPS.
“The 63rd Victorian railway station robbery in
12 months occurred last night. The haul was'only
15s.” —Melbourne “Herald.”
Evening at the Cracksmen’s Club. Some
prominent members are in the smoking-
room—“in smoke,” as they say.
“What’s biting you, Lionel?”
asked Velvet Ned.
“Arr-r!” exclaimed Leadpipe
Lionel bitterly. “ ’Ere’s an-
other dud bust at a railway
station. Fifteen bob! A
man’d do better bag-snatchin’
schoolgirls. Amachoors, blink-
in’ amachoors!”
“Amachoors me eye!” said
Micky the Mug, glancing at his
gold watch, which once had
graced a bookmaker’s waist-
coat. “No flamin’ fear about
amachoors. It’s Gelignite George
an’ Brocky Joe’s little lurk.
They’d give a bye to a unlocked
mint to get ’arf-a-James out of
a railway tank. It’s their
’obby.”
“Well, gentlemen,” said Vel-
vet Ned quietly, “why get cross
about it? While the sleuths
are nosing around railway sta-
tions they’re giving us an open i
go. That reminds me I have an
appointment at 2 a.m. Can
anyone lend me a squirt? Mine
has been out of action since I
drilled that night-watchman.”
Half a dozen revolvers were
offered. Selecting a handsome
new one, tendered by Slippery Sam, Velvet
Ned nodded to the company and withdrew,
kitbag in hand, humming “The Policeman’s
Holiday.”
Norbell.
* *
“Capital punishment drives crime underground.”
True. Six feet is the usual depth.
"The new Baiikstowh (Sydney) baths are to have
a springboard and tower.”
For divers reasons they will presumably
be erected at the deep end.
* *
EMINENT CLIMBERS.
“The ‘Blue Mountaineers,’ of Katoomba, is the
only organised Climbing Club in Australia.”
Sun.”
Not so. The members of .some of our
Party Climbing Clubs have astonishing feats
of political cragsmanship to their debit.
Paradoxically, they usually begin their
climbs by working their way underground,
and the foothold thus gained in subterranean
activities leads them ever upward to the
dizzy heights of preferment—aye, .some-
times, if they watch their steps, to the
Matterhorn of an 0.8. E. Aware as they
are that a single slip may precipitate them
headlong into the abyss of pre-selection obli-
vion, they hang on grimly, keeping close. to-
gether for mutual support as they negotiate
the treacherous ways. Scorning the assist-
ance of a rope, though many of their con-
stituents would gladly see them swinging at
the end of one, it is an eye-opener to watch
them risk even work to gain a precarious
seathold in the frowning fastnesses of the
Macquarie-street Ranges. There is not a
gorge—not even an eight-course one —at
which they will boggle. Yet they rarely
suffer from "cuts.”
And what of that other great body the
Social Climbers? The huge Sisterhood that
clamber up the rocky paths of the Near
Society foothills, their eyes fixed steadily
on their ultimate goal, a par. in the "Sun”?
They come in their thousands from Younger
Sets and B.Y.T.’s. Age is no bar. This
great army cling tenaciously, with stilt-heeled
shoe and highly-polished finger-nail, to the
ever-narrowing goat track which they have
set themselves painfully to tread. Many
fall by the wayside. But a resolute few win
through—to reel, exhausted but happy,
through the hospitable portals of the
climbers’ favorite hostel, Government House.
S. W.
* *
“Victorian forestry experts are seeking a type of
fireproof trees .’’—“Herald.”
Why, they’ve been delivering the dam’
things at our woodheap for years!
* *
“There are too many Australians mad about
cricket.’” —Dojnain orator.
Exactly, and also too many batty Com-
munists!
AUSTRALIA’S TEST HOPE.
There’s only one man who can lead our
lads to victory in the forthcoming Tests—
Big Jack Lang, the Auburn Ajax. Surely
there is some Gander of the popping crease
ready to pop off and allow the Windsor
Wonder to show his mettle, or should it
be throw his metal?
Big Jack’s claims are undeniable. For
18 months he batted on one of the greasiest
wickets ever encountered in N.S.W., and,
despite the fact that he was declared out
several times, stayed in to pile up the record
total of 13,253,346. He’s a hard swiper win,
doesn’t like Englishmen, and he’s likely to
make the game as willing as a Saturday-
night go in the ’Loo.
As for his bowling, suffice it to say that
his twisters have been the downfall of thou-
sands of misguided workers, and his under-
hand stuff is superb.
But if Big Jack is to use his talents to
the full he must be in complete control. In
that.case the invaders won’t have an earthly.
If. they don’t play the game to his liking
lie’ll either swamp the field with newly-
appointed players or put a 100 per cent, tax
on the gate-money.
A..C.
“And how’s your little girl—the one who
left home?”
“Oh, Jessie? She’s got a permanent position
in Taronga Park Zoo.”
“I’m so glad to hear she’s fallen on her
feet. It’s such a hard world for a girl
to he gadding about alone in these
days!”
CRY OF JOY.
She is lovelier than morning when the day
has scarce begun.
Her lips are snares to trap the indiscreet.
Tier eyes arc limpid pools of blue that dance
with girlish fun.
Her hair’s a glory and her voice is sweet.
She's the centre of attraction —men about
her person flock
Like bees around, a. honeysuckle tree,
She is charming, though her naughty ways
her prudent sisters shock,
And she weds to-morrow — not, thank
goodness, me!
P. O. M. C.
PLEASURE’S PRICE.
Each racing day my courage flags.
I seek, with footsteps dragging ,
My homej for, having seen the nags,
I hare to hear the nagging.
N.


s«v \
h/m
0 - '
/ s
Z/////y
//// /// /
//
\
/
N
//// / / r
/ / / // /// /// / /’" >X > 'X ;
' ///// / / // 7f////C''Z<2.~ : •
\\ / / / r/’/ // / '!f///iS"~~ ~
'C\klfi / ? ! / / . Y
•. \i \ :' i < ? ■/ : / ,c ; . -
ti
X\ x */ UH !!&//' '
X%, K :\; ''■< : i ■ i . ? * ’ „ ' —>
■ i ph i i /' ->v V -
m
o
m ; h
i ■'
EBSM
mm
m
4Wms
m
wz
ggg|
m
fy
s
Qjl
£a
m
m.
>
H
ia_^-
■
m
Hi
&
u 5
w
542
llinßl
IF
rRJr
i§§g§
HB
■
or all "tastes-••
at all times
no better drink
than Beer/
Brewed malt will benefit you. Leading medical authorities all
over the have paid tribute to the dietetic value of brewed
malt. The rich nutriment of barley . . . the energising properties
of refined sugar . . . the satisfying flavour of hops ... all these
products of nature together supply the nourishment the body
needs for perfect health and fitness.
Tastes differ, and occasions vary, but whatever the preference
or need there is a drink which is appropriate and satisfying.
Lager . . . sparkling and light ... is a universal favourite with
men and women. Pilsener . . . the perfect dinner beverage has
a place at any party, a welcome in any home. Stout . . . the
body-building liquor whic.i has brought back health to many
an invalid and helped men and women to face life s work and
worries. Pure draught Ales . . . the everyday beer . . . which has
through centuries been the drink of the Anglo-Saxon race, the
inspiration of a thousand songs and the benefactor of humanity.
Among these, in their varying forms, is just the right drink for
you ... in accord with your taste and your needs. And what-
ever you fancy, there’s real benefit to be got from its regular
enjoyment. Have it at home, have it abroad ... serve it to your
friends and your family ... and you 11 all be the better for it.
0
0
0
0
0
—p <—>
<T7>
0
a
Ltf )1
IVs good Jbr you J
Brewed under perfect hygienic conditions in your own State
TOOTH’S TOOHEYS RESCH S
84-75


wire
dropper }
TOSmv*
:
CIO
e
Ml
m
r
“Cyclone” Ring-Lock Fencing RE-
MAINS stockproof WITHOUT MAIN-
TENANCE. Practically everlasting.
Cannot sag or stretch. The heavy
wire uprights are held immovable and
rigid by the famous “Ring-Lock.”
MATERIAL FOR A “CYCLONE”
FENCE COSTS THE SAME AS FOR
THE WIRE AND DROPPER FENCE.
LABOR COSTS £8 A MILE LESS !
For “Cyclone” is erected in a little
more than half the time! “Cyclone”
Ring-Lock Fencing is sold in S-chain
ro!!s.
Cyclone Fence
REDUCED
£2 per mile
In addition to the relief afforded
by the removal of Sales Tax on
fencing materials, prices of all
types of “Cyclone” Ring-Lock
Fencing have been reduced.
For instance, the price of the
popular 5-line “Cyclone” High
Tensile Sheep Fence was formerly
(including tax) £22 per mile; it
is now £2O. A substantial saving.
The new catalogue (No. 44) shows
the revised prices of fencing and
gates, steel posts, droppers, wire
netting, etc. SEND FOR IT.
'
T7
>=
>=»
=4
/ )=i
=<^=
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE C?P"L T ?
•u JAMIESON STREET, SYDNEY, (
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
POST
COUPON
Please send r
priced Catalogue
Ring-Lock Fences,
ic by return mail your free illustrated and
(No. 44) of “Cyclone” Metal Gates and
and comparison of costs.
Name .
Address
B. 9711/’S2.
-just post a
for a pair of the biggest value in Men’s Shoes
ever offered! “Energetics” are the outstanding
Shoe Success of 1932! Men who know shoes tell
us they’re the best they’ve ever worn! Men who
used to say it was hard to get a decent fit find
“Energetics” solve the problem! Some men we
know now buy “Energetics” in place of made-to-
measures. . . .that’s how good they are!
\ ■
*33
POST
FREE
note
MHGETIC
SHOE
MAIL ORDERS
When ordering,
remember to quote
number,
leather,
shape and
size required.
If uncertain
of size, send
outline draw-
ing of stock-
inged feet.
Wittner Mail Order
Service despatches
your order same day
as received.
ESDI
FOUR SMART SHAPES
“Energetic” Shoes are in four different
shapes (as illustrated). “A,” medium
square toe; “B,” wide square toe; “C,”
medium round toe; “D,” wide round toe.
Each shape is available in full and half
sizes., from sto 10. When writing, follow
the suggestions given to Mail Order
customers.
“Energetics” in Four Feathers and Four
Shapes to every Half Size from 5 to 10
give any man a splendid range to choose
from! —and the price is only 20/- pair POST
FREE to any address in Australia. Steel
Arch Supports, Moulded Block Toes, Genuine
Goodyear Welted Soles, smooth Grainless
Innersoles, Feather Fining and Fined Tongue
are some of the other features which enter
into the construction of this amazing shoe!
IN FOUR LEATHERS
“Energetic” Shoes are available in the four
different leathers described below, and each
leather in the illustrated four shapes.
BXlsB6—Mid Brown Calf
BXls79—Dark Brown Calf
BXl669—Black Box Calf
BXl67o—Black Glace Kid
NEW CATALOGUE MAILED POST FREE ON REQUEST.
1
1
Mail Orders: 45-47 LEEDS STREET, FOOTSCRAY, W.ll, VICTORIA.
City Branch: 234-236 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, C. 1., VIC.
Over 40 2 —Be Warmed!
1 Weak Back
2 Sciatica
3 Joint Pains
4f. Bad Nights
5 Rheumatism
6 Loss of Vigour
% Bladder Trouble
8 Lumbago
SURE SYMPTOMS OF
KIDNEY TROUBLE
Free Gift brings Hew Health, Vigour and Vitality
“Too-old,” worn-out —the night-
mare of the man, and sometimes
women, of forty and over. Yet there
are men of fifty and sixty who have
all the glorious vitality, health and
strength that really make life worth
living.
Are you going to let your life sag out
at forty, or will you let us start you back to
health and vigour—free ?
Because we know there are tens of
thousands of people who have proved De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills will end
Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Weak Back,
Bladder Weakness and Kidney Trouble, we
now offer to send every suffering man or
woman a free test supply. The very
young (in cases of bed-wetting), the
weakest and the oldest, men, women at
all times, can take De Witt’s Pills. No
dangerous drugs or purgatives, but a
scientific preparation that will do you
good from the very first dose.
Prove this at our expense. When
you know their glorious tonic effect you
can obtain further supplies from any
chemist, price 3/6, or the larger, more econ-
omical size, price 6/6. Packed in white
boxes printed in blue and gold. The formula
appears on every box. For your free supply,
fill in this coupon, putting down the number
of the complaint (from list above) in which
you are especially interested.
De WITT’S
KIDNEY AND BEADDED PILES
If you do not want to cut this book, write your application very clearly on plain paper
or post card and send to address given above, mentioning “Bulletin."
m
mm
MB
r
r
H
■
A
: ....
free GIFTS FORM
To E. c. De Witt & Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,
P.O. Box 26, St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Please send me a free sni>i>ly of De Witt’s foils.
Name
I want, this
sample for
Nos.
Address
S.B.


1
w.
w
DIAMONDS FOR SERVICE
WHEN battery or dry-cell users require
service that is out of the ordinary—
long, and hard, and gruelling—they choose
DIAMONDS.
It is Diamonds’ length of life and amazingly rapid
recuperation that has won them a regular place in the
work of the Victorian Railways Signalling Division.
pOR the same reasons many
Broadcasting Stations, the
P.M.G.’s Department, leading
radio set- manufacturers, and the
Navy, choose Diamonds.
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES-TORCH REFILLS
l»- vl
dia m
BAT
man
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
HORSES AND TRACTORS. •
“Jamwood”: The remark of the S. Aus.
Auditor-General, quoted in B. 2/11/’32,
that tractors “seem to be much more expen-
sive than horses on light soils, and on heavy
soils are a doubtful proposition,” made me
curious as tp the evidence on which _ he
arrived at this judgment. I find he gives
it —or some of it —himself in the report
which “Yorke P.” summarises. He sets out
details of the 1931-’B2 operations of 34
wheat-farmers in the Mid-North, 9 in Yorke
Peninsula, 35 in the Murray Mallee and 5
in the Middle North-West. These five need
not be considered; they all used horses, so
no comparison with power-farmers is pos-
sible. But the farm accounts of the other
38 are most interesting, though I do not
think they warrant the anti-tractor verdict.
Of the 14 Mid-North farmers, three used
tractors, one tractors and horses, the rest
horses. The Yorke Peninsula nine were
equally divided: three relied on tractors,
three on tractors and horses, three on horses.
There was only one tractor among the 15
Murray Mallee men. In all three divisions
w’ofking expenses were highest where trac-
tors were employed and lowest where horses
did the job. Per acre, they went to £1
16s. 7d. on Yorke Peninsula and £ 1 11s. sd.
in the Mid-North, and the sole Murray
Mallee specimen showed £1 4s. 3d. By con-
trast the highest and lowest per-acre figures
on the Dobbin farms were 13s. Bd. and
Bs. 7d. in the Mid-North, 19s. 9d. and 4s.
7d. on Yorke Peninsula, 16s. 7d. and 2s. Bd.
in the Murray Mallee. Tractor-and-horse
costs were betwixt and between : on the four
farms with the combination they were 17s.
Id., 16s. Bd., 15s. Id. and 345. 7d.
But here’s a significant thing. Tractor-
worked farms had the best bushel-averages
in each of the three divisions where com-
parison can be made. The Murray Mallee
tractor man secured 14.74 bushels, whereas
only four of his 14 neighbors with horse-
drawn implements got into double figures.
A Yorke Peninsula farmer with a tractor
harvested 19.18 bushels to the acre, another
16.3 and a third 15.85; and one with the
tractor-and-horse combination returned
18.02. A man with horses took off 18.21
bushels, and a second 16.31; but there was
a great fall with a third example, 3.44
bushels. In the Mid-North a tractor man
headed the averages with 24.95 bushels; a
tractor-and-horse settler was second with
24.18. and another holding designated by
a “T” reached 22 bushels. An agricul-
turist who depended on Dobbin averaged
22.51 bushels; another, 21; a third, 16.31.
There has been much loose talk about trac-
tor-farming being slipshod farming, but these
examples suggest that the opposite is the
case. In no instance where tractors wore
employed was the harvest really poor;
but on farms with horse-traction the aver-
ages per acre wore 6.39, 6.37, 5.93, 5.41,
5.01, 4.81, 4.02, 3.44 and 2.48 bushels.
The Auditor-General mentions with appre-
ciation. the case of “settler No. 7,” who, on
a total cost of £4 per acre, “paid his full
expenses for the year and Bd. in the £ off
his antecedent debts, and carried forward
£300.” Settler No. 7 is the man who got
the 24.95-busliel average (he put in 800
acres and had 7484 bushels for sale) ; and
I notice he belongs to the band with tractors.
So does the man with the 24.18 average-—he
cropped 530 acres for a return of 12,816 sale-
able bushels —though he had horses as well.
This farmer’s receipts from the crop alone
(with Government bounty and income from
stock to be added) worked out at £3 55.-4 d.
per acre, and his costs at £2 Is. 2d. per
acre; with wheat at a bit over 2s. Bd. lie
actually showed a profit of Is. a bushel. Not
a bad result for a tractor man. His return
was actually Id. a bushel better (in each
case excluding the bounty of 44d. a bushel)
than that of the man with horses who got
the 16.31-bushel average. That farmer put
in 800 acres, had 13,050 bushels for sale,
spent £1 14s. sd. per acre, and received
£2 9s. 4d.
I do not undervalue Mr. Rogers’s report,
hut in his observations on tractors he has,
I suggest, been a little hasty and a little
harsh.
RED RUST IN SOUTH AUS.
“Yeoman”: Damage.has been done to the
crops by red rust in several of the earlier
districts in South Aus. In some cases what
promised to be 30-busliel crops will not now
return seed. Little or nothing has been
accomplished to eradicate or control this
fungus disease. Prof. Richardson says it
is prevalent in our wheatfields every year,
but only in some seasons will the damage be
considerable; in most the losses are very
small and the disease goes unnoticed.
Development of the rust spores is dependent
mainly on humidity during spring. The
spring of 1889 was abnormally wet through-
out the wheatgrowing colonics, with an
unusual amount of warm, humid weather—
highly favorable conditions for the rapid
multiplication of the rust fungus. The
result was damage estimated at £3,000,000.
A peculiarity of red rust is that part of
the life history of the fungus may be passed
on a different host. In spring it appears on
the leaves and stalks Of the wheat plant in
the familiar form of reddish-brown dust-
filled spores, called uredospores. These
spores may be wind-borne to rust-free
plants, and will germinate in a few hours
if the conditions are favorable. If they ger-
minate on a gi-een wheat leaf or stalk the
germ thread forces its way into this leaf
or stalk and produces within a week a group
of fresh spores filled with uredospores. This
cycle will be repeated for as long as there
are green leaves or stalks to act as a host.
Uredospores will retain their vitality for
over nine months, which explains how the
fungus is carried over from one season to
another. Early self-sown wheat is invari-
ably affected and assists in carrying the ure-
dospores through to' the spring.
Some wheats, like Gluyas, Florence and
Marshall’s No. 3, are less liable to rust than
the purple straw strains like Federation.
But even Gluyas may be badly affected at
times. The only method of control that can
be. suggested is to sow early-maturing wheats
early so that they will have advanced beyond
the stage when serious damage might be
caused by infection should close, muggy
weather occur in the spring. Approved
methods of farming are also essential. Mean-
while agricultural scientists, have scope
enough for developing a good yielding variety
of wheat, that will be immune to rust. The
Duram types are highly rust-resistant, but
they yield poorly. Headway in overcoming
this menace should be easier here than in
the Old World. In Australia there are only
two types of this fungus. In America there
are about 30. This may explain why a
particular variety of wheat that is immune
(O' rust in one district may be susceptible in
another.
ACRE EARNING.
“Trifolium”: On his Linden Hills pro-
perty at Cunningar, near Harden (N.S.W.).
.T. B. Stocks has proved the wisdom of
increasing production per acre before buy-
ing more laud. High efficiency has been
achieved by subdivision into well-watered
paddocks, top-dressing natural and improved
pastures with super., sowing lucerne, grasses
and clovers, raising fat lambs, growing stud
wheat for sale as seed, running a small dairy
and rearing pigs.
The soil varies from red loam to sandy
loam; the country is undulating; the rain-
fall averages 23in. The improved pastures,
totalling 360 acres, include areas of sub.
clover, sown at 41b. per acre; Wimmera rye,
21b. and 31b. per acre, and lucerne at 41b.
to 61b. per acre. The lucerne paddocks are
cultivated each year in July or August.
Improved pastures and portion of the
natural pastures are top-dressed with super,
every second year ; grasses and clover in April
and lucerne in August. These pastures,
supplemented by oats in the early winter,
provide continuous green feed, which enables
prime fat lambs and grown sheep to be
trucked each month of the year, and ensures
a consistent monthly yield from the 25 dairy
cows. Pasture and green-fodder paddocks
are small enough to admit of rotational
grazing, care being taken to avoid any
damage to the plants. Stock have easy access
to native-grass paddocks and an abundance
of clean water, which in most paddocks is
supplied to troughs by pipelines from wells.
Although wheat is grown on 300 to 400
of the 1900 acres on Linden Hills, 3500
sheep and lambs were carried on this pro-
perty in the spring of 1931. These figures
were higher than usual, the number seldom
rising above 3000. Mr. Stocks concentrates
on fat-lamb raising, and each year markets
1000 to 1500 lambs and an average of 500
crossbred wethers and ewes. Fifteen breed-
ing sows are run in conjunction with the
dairy, and graze on a small lucerne paddock.
The" young pigs are weaned at eight weeks,
are fattened on skim-milk, green lucerne and
secbn'd-yrade wheat, and at five months are
marketed as porkers, weighing 801 b. to 1001 b.
OATS AS A FODDER CROP.
“Wescocky”: A farmer in Westralia’s
14in. rainfall area tried Mulgo oats in a
40-acre paddock infested with weeds and
take-ail. Previous, to planting, the area was
ploughed in February and again in May,
a big proportion of the weeds keing killed.
At present there is no sign of take-all, nor
is there much barley-grass- —it would have
been dense otherwise —or Cape weed.
The oats germinated in early June, and
the farmer turned in his dairy herd—-14
cows and a bull —when the crop was three
weeks old. But at that stage of growth
the paddock proved too small for so large
a herd; this is not Gippsland country.
Despite unfavorable growing conditions—
cold weather with little rain—the crop made
progress enough the next six weeks for the
cow r s to be returned at intervals of two
weeks With the coming of the warmer
days of August the oats did much better,
and the herd was left in the paddock.
It. did not then check growth to any
extent. As I write (near the end ot
October) the crop, though receiving very
little nourishment from above in September
(very dry), is about 2ft. high, fairly thick
and beautifully green, while the cows are
in full milk. Owing to the lack of fodder
during the early winter months, some of the
cows at calving were practically not worth
milking, and they were very slow T to pick
up. They are now in full milk, and produc-
ing more cream than at any time, during
the year. In this particular district pro-
duction from grass-fed cows decreases
rapidly during October as the grasses ripen
and lose their nutritive value.
A farmer in the same district who keeps
sheep relies on the grass in his fodder pad-
docks. That feed is now dry and withered,
his sheep are losing condition, and they are
having a cruel time with grass-seeds in their
eyes. The paddocks are old. and take-all
and flag-smut are rife in the district. Even
though he may fallow those grass paddocks
in the next year, his wheat yield the follow-
ing year will be decreased by weeds and
disease.
The benefits derived from fodder crops in
the wheat belt are twofold. First, if condi-
tions are normal, stock will thrive throughout
the year, and if over-stocking is not indulged
in there need never be a feed shortage.
Second, rotational cropping is always bene-
ficial. Let a paddock go to grass, or crop
with wheat, two years running, and you
encourage weeds and disease. Mulgo and
other rapidly-maturing oats control most
wheat diseases, yield well on oft-worked
ground, and in a normal year make excellent
hay props.
FLOCK RAMS ON EASY TERMS.
To help small graziers vexed (for the
time being) by lack of pence, the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture is purchasing
flock rams from registered stud breeders and
selling them on easy terms. There was never
a better time to buy, and. though funds are
limited, the scheme should be advantageous
to all parties. Applicants may nominate
breeders in their own districts from whom
they desire to get rams. They may also
arrange with neighbors for group applica-
tions so as to keep rail charges down.
Inspection and purchase will be in the hands
of the department’s own sheep and wool
experts.
Graziers may apply for up to 12 rams at
three guineas, the limit for one man, interest
included, being £4O; but they may, of course,
have to be content with a smaller number.
Payment will be accepted in two instal-
ments: one-half,, plus interest, from the
proceeds of the 1934 wool clip, and the
balance, with interest, out of the 1935 wool
cheque. Applications are coming in briskly,
so there is no time to be lost.
FIRST, BREED YOUR LAMB!
“Valerin”: Before we can hope to get
much benefit from the Ottawa agreement
we must have the goods to deliver. Graziers
are inclined to look upon grading and stan-
dardisation of meat as hocus-pocus. It may
be; but a visit to the meat stalls at Smith-
field and an inspection of Argentine beef
and Enzed lamb show the advantage of
regularity in size, fatness and quality gener-
ally. The Smithfield salesmen tell you at
once they cannot sell irregular produce to
the best advantage, and one feels they are
right, because the appearance of Argentine
beef and Enzed lamb at once impresses the
buyer. Lamb-breeders in N. S. Wales will
never get far until they turn out carcases
of uniform size and quality.
In my district there are farmers and
graziers “breeding” lambs from Dorset
Horns, B. Leicesters, Romneys, Corriedales
and Southdowns. Ewes are mostly Merinos
of various sizes, principally culls. Obvi-
ously the results of this promiscuous breed-
ing make regularity of size and quality
impossible. By giving prizes for various
British breeds ‘ and crosses country agri-
cultural shows encourage unnecessary and
unsuitable types. The tendency should be
to eliminate anything that is not up to
standard and to concentrate on the fewest
possible all-round satisfactory types. For
certain districts certain mosses must be
more suitable than for others and tests
should be conducted to ascertain them. To
my mind consistent quality and uniform
size are of far more importance to the
grower than trying to market an inferior
article. Farmers cannot solve the market-
ing problem, which is a specialist’s job, but
they can produce something worth market-
ing'.
WOOLPRESSING POINTS.
“Kedron P.”: I have known classers who
were incapable of judging the weight of wool
making up the various lots. Where the class
will ' easily go live bales or more, this is
not of much importance, but where four
bales pressed would make five, money is
thrown away.
Lots of live bales or over are sold separ
ately from star lots and have the attention
of the principal buyers. Star lots of four
bales and under are usually valued and
bought by junior buyers. One often sees, a
four-bale lot with a total weight of 16001 b.
or so. In such cases live bales of 3201 b.
could be made, and not only could they be
offered as a large lot, but buyers would go
higher on bales averaging 3201 b. than on
those averaging 4001 b. It would pay
growers to re-press such four-bale lots as
would make five bales.
Another phase of pressing should be the
avoidance of mixed bales. How often one
sees mixed bales such as AAAE/AAE when
these portions could have been pressed with
the main lots! Some mixed bales (for
example, Black/Double Fleece) are unavoid-
able, but, except in the case of small clips,
the classer should be able to avoid more
than one, or two mixed bales. Classers
should train themselves to judge weight and
be able to estimate how many bales can be
made from one line. All they need do is
to form a habit of estimating, and later
check up with the weights and number of
bales.
THE BEST TYPE OF DIP.
“W. D. McC.”: A shower dip (B.
19/9/’32) may be all right for a man with
a few sheep who has plenty of time on his
hands. It is no good to one who has to
put through 3000 or 4000 a day. After 40
years’ experience with all kinds of dips, my
vote goes to the properly-constructed walk-
in, walk-out type. The most important fac-
tors in successful dipping are (1) the proper
mixing of an arsenical powder dip and (2)
the length of the swim. This should be
40ft. at least, and 60ft. is better ; 70ft. is
not too much provided the walk-out is on an
easy grade. The swim gives the wool time
to absorb enough dip to ensure protection
for a long time from both tick and fly. A
walk-in dip, 60ft. over all, should contain
1000 gallons of liquid when full.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Are gas producers made in Australia
for farm tractors satisfactoryf (2) Is
much more time required to look after them
when running? (3) Any more wear than,
when running on kerosene? (4) How much
loss of power? (5) Will engine idle or must
it he left, running fairly fast? (6) any
cheap hook on the subject? —2s29.
(1) It has been definitely established that
marked economy in fuel and lubricating oil
can be obtained by the use of a producer-gas
as a fuel for farm tractors. (2) Not very
much more time. Greater time is required
when a farmer produces his own charcoal,
but this is accompanied by a saving in the
cost of his fuel. (3) It is claimed that
maintenance costs are less with producer-gas
than with kerosene, owing to the absence
of crank case dilution. (4) With an effici-
ent producer-gas equipment, 20 p.c. to 25
p.c. of the power obtained from liquid fuel.
(5) The engine will idle normally. (6)
Reports prepared by the Producer-Gas Sub-
committee of the Committee on Mechanical
Transport can be obtained on application
to the Secretary, Department of the
Interior. Canberra.
(1) What wood makes the best charcoal
for a forge? (2) How can one ton of wood
he converted, into charcoal, and how long
would it have to burn? —2s7s.
(1) Practically any native timber, especi-
ally stringybark and box; also almost any
foreign timber, save willow. (2) Cut the
billets of wood from limbs measuring from
two to six inches in diameter, and make
them from 2ft. to 4ft. long. Stack them up-
right, end on end, in a conical pile, as
large as may be convenient to handle. Cover
the pile with plenty of turf or damp soil,
(Continued on next page.)


I
Reinforced . . . .inside,
for comfort. . . outside,
for extra wear!
There’s a snug, soft, leather
lining to the whole upper of this
Abbey Cossack. It fits with
perfect smoothness and com-
fort. And, for extra durability,
the sole is doubled. Two
thicknesses of the toughest
Australian leather guarantee
maximum service under all
conditions of wear and weather.
The Abbey Cossack, too, is
flexible, despite its ruggedness.
It’s an ideal boot for hard,
continuous working.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- & 407-
Black Box Calf . . . . 37/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 306
fe~D,
a i
FOR
COWBOY SADDLERY
WE STAND ALONE.
We are listing: in Our New Catalogue
a Bigger Range of Cowboy Saddles,
Bridles, Chaps, Cowboy Boots, Lariats,
etc., as well as Australian Saddlery and
Harness at Reduced Prices to meet
present-day needs. Write for a copy.
sdf
fs
QUART POTS.
Hand - made of
stout tin with sol-
dered double
seams, round or
oval 37-
Leather Case 6/9
(Post: N.S.W., 1 /*;
Q., Vic., 1/6.)
SADDLE POUCH.—Medium size,
plain hide, 6/9. Bag leather with
welted seam, 13/6- (Post: N.S.W.,
i/-; Q-, Vic., 1/6.)
fv JP
U\//?
N° 8
STATION
STOCKWHIPS
All Kangaroo,
with plaited belly.
No. 8, with 7ft.
plaited thong,
19/6
AVe List a Big: Range of Whips in Our
Catalogue. Write for it now.
Walther & Stevenson, Ltd.,
SADDLERS,
395 George Street, Sydney.
41
AN
I
cIAND
o
Bp
I
Sav
MADE IN
ENGLAND
SWAN
w PENS
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
‘Swan’ Pens Black and Coloured, from 20/-.
‘Swan’ Minors from 15/-, ‘Blackbird’ Pens
from 10/-, ‘Swan’ Ink from 6d. per bottle.
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO„ LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.l.
Factories : London & Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD.,
181. Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
Remember to use SWAN INK
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
THINK OF
y 1
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THREE
BIG FACTORS IN THE
PROSPERITY OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
WHEAT, WOOL,
GOLD
STUDY THESE FIGURES!
WHEAT.
1981 .. 41,000,000 bushels
1932 .. 45,000,000 bushels
WOOL.
1931 .. 208,000 bales
1932 . . 210,000 bales
The number of sheep in W.A. this year is
a record, the total being 11,000,000.
GOLD.
1931. . 510,57207..
1932.. 600,0000 z. (est’d)
If you desire to advertise in the West,
there is ONE big factor to help YOU
to Prosperity. It is Western Australia’s
largest newspaper,
THE
Nett
N.S.W.
Sales 38,0u0 copies weekly.
Office: Wingello House, Angel
Place, Sydney. 85690.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSORANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance.
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
and leave a few openings at the bottom to
admit air, and a central shaft to allow com-
bustion and escape of smoke. Set fire to
the pile, and arrange it to burn for about
24 hours ; the fire can be retarded by stop-
ping the draughts of air at the bottom, or
watering the pile from the top. When burn-
ing is finished, allow the pile to cool before
opening it. Make a small batch foil a begin-
ning, and burn one kind of wood at a time
until experience is. gained.
If a separator is turned too fast, caus-
ing the cream to be very thick, is cream
lost in the separated milk? —2557.
No, but excessive speed does not materi-
ally increase skimming efficiency and may
have a detrimental effect on the separator.
I have been offered the lease, for 3 years,
of a farm, 120 acres, improved, partly
cleared, not stocked, .10 miles from Kemp-
sey, N.S.W., first year rent free, thereafter
£2O p.a. The land seems fairly good. If
I borrowed £4O or £5O could I make a start
in a small way, taking into consideration
expenses for cartage of cream, supplies, and
implements that 1 would have to purchase?
—2782. . ,
You would need a lot more capital than
that. Fifty pounds would only be enough to
purchase five or six cows, the annual return
from which would be £4O or £5O. Carts,
horses and plant necessary to carry on a
dairy farm would cost between £l5O and
£2OO. The short term of the lease is a
factor against success.
(1) Is it true that a better price can
he obtained for wool sorted in Sydney,
after having been classed in the shed,
than for rvool which has not been sorted?
(2) Cost of having a clip sorted per pound?
(3) approximate gain i n value per pound
(average) ? (4) What firm does this class
of work in Sydney? —2722.
(1) and (4) No Sydney concern sorts
fleece lines of a clip. Sorting is. done by the
manufacturer when the individual fleeces
are divided up into the different qualities
and lengths. There are several firms inf Syd-
ney, the largest being the Graziers’ Co-opera-
tive Shearing Co., that will class clips, the
charge being Id. per pound. They will also
handle any mixed bales or lower lines, such
as pieces. With these, if desired, they prac-
tically sort the wool, and, by a system of
pooling of the same wool from many owners,
they are able to market each type
of wool in large lots. Only oddments or
the lower lines of the clip are dealt with in
this way. (2) fd. per pound. (3) Can’t
quote definite figures, but as all the wool
has the advantage of selling in the “large-
lot” saleroom, it is considered to be well
worth the expense involved.
I am interested in the invention of a
pneumatic horse-collar, and understand that
a similar contrivance was on the Sydney
market many years ago. What was the
result of that enterprise, and is the idea
worth going on with? —2784.
The collars did not make much headway.
They were expensive, and when a puncture
occurred there was delay while a new
bladder was being obtained. Now it’s a
bit late in the day to develop new ideas
in horse-gear.
] should appreciate some information as
to (1) when red stringybark blooms in my
part of Victoria; (2) name of a book deal-
ing with blossoms and flowers valuable to the
beekeeper; (3) when a new queen may be
introduced; (4) how queen may be got at?
—2918.
(1) Red stringybark blooms through the
districts referred to during February and
March, usually once in every three years,
and is in bud for 21 months previously. (2)
“Honey Flora of Victoria,” from the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Melbourne (Is. Bd.
posted). (3) A new queen may be intro-
duced at any time from spring to autumn,
but it should only be done while the bees are
breeding freely and gathering honey. (4)
Open hive carefully, avoid jarring frames or
exciting bees, use as little smoke as possible,
remove one outside comb to gain room to
manipulate, then carefully examine combs
from centre to brood-nest. The queen is
usually seen moving about on the actual area
of comb occupied by brood, or, if excited,
may have moved down into the bottom board
of the hive.
Should fig trees be pruned, and should
the suckers be removed or loosened at the
root f—-2690.
Beyond removing drooping branches that
interfere with cultivation implements a
young tree needs no pruning. Old trees can
be renewed by heavy cutting back to induce
new growth. The suckers should be re-
moved.
What persons owning fowls and selling
the eggs from them must register with the
N.S.W. Egg Marketing Board? What is
a “producer agency,” and how is it obtained?
—2917.
Any owner of more than twenty adult
fowls (hens or ducks) within tne area
under the Board’s jurisdiction must either
consign all eggs produced to the Board, or
apply for a “producer agency,” which is a
permit to sell eggs privately to retailers
or consumers. The producer agent furnishes
a monthly return to the Board specifying
the number of fowls, total eggs produced for
the month and number of eggs sold; and
encloses one penny per dozen eggs sold,
being the amount to be retained in the pool
from the proceeds of all sales. AH eggs
sold within the Board’s area must be
stamped. No control is exercised over the
sale of eggs by owners of 20 or fewer fowls,
except that the eggs must be stamped. Any
rubber stamp-maker can supply the stamp.
Apply to Egg Marketing Board, 28 Moun-
Tain-street Ultimo.
How to make ice without a refrigerating
plant? I live 50 miles from anywhere —2B26.
Take one part by weight of muriate of
ammonia to two parts of saltpetre, mix with
them Scotch soda of au amount to tlieir joint
bulk, and dissolve the whole in cold water.
The article to be frozen is stood in the mix-
ture in some kind of receptacle, preferably
glass or earthenware. It is best to buy the
chemicals in bulk. They must be stored in
a dry place.
llow to waterproof hessian? —2565.
Place half a bushel of lime in hot water
to slake and, when the slaking is finished,
add 8 quarts of salt dissolved in hot water,
2|lb. ground rice boiled in water to a thin
paste and stirred in hot, and lib. fine whit-
ing. Mix all to a creamy state, and let
stand for a day or two. Then heat it, and
immense . the hessian in the hot mixture.
When it is thoroughly saturated hang up to
drain and, when dry, paint on another coat
of the mixture made hot again if an extra
good job is wanted. Halve or quarter the
above quantities if only a small mixing is
wanted.
What appliances and methods are neces-
sary to make hatter from goat’s milkl
2606.
Procedure is exactly the same as with
cow’s milk, but the cream is white, and
makes a white butter. For home purposes
the cream is obtained by skimming milk
which lias been set for that purpose, and
the butter is made by beating the cream in a
basin with a flat wooden stick or butter pat.
In your climate (Papua) it is difficult to
obtain a good rise of cream without the aid
of ice. If that is unprocurable, the milk
should be heated and kept at about 160 deg.
Fahr. for 20 minutes or so. A good scalded
cream will rise after it has been set away
in a cool place for 12 hours or more. For
large quantities of butter you will require
a separator and a churn, obtainable from
A. Hordern and Sons.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Rab”: One of the causes of failure to
exterminate rabbits by fumigation is neglect
to refumigate in about seven days. The
doe places her young in an excavation at
the end of one of the deepest blind leads,
covers them over with fur, seals up the
passage and may leave them for days. Dur-
ing this period they mature sufficiently, to
emerge from their nest and survive (if the
doe lias been killed), provided there is green
feed at the entrance of the burrow.
“Kooragai” : Recently came across a new
use for a tree fork. It was cut from a
light sapling and formed an excellent fast-
ener for a wire gate. The prongs fitted
over the post and had a bolt through them
and it (a stout nail in each prong would
do as well),'so that the fork could swing-
over the top. Three inches of the butt were
left for handle, and the crutch of the fork
came over the gate head.
“A.C.8.”: In the County of Cumberland
(N.S.W.) it pays to paint all post bottoms
with tar or wood-preserving oil. This
checks dry rot and makes the posts less
attractive to white ants.
“Rastus”: If the wood-pile has been
established for some years, rake off the sur-
face chips and dig the brown mould under-
neath into the garden. You will find it a
good mulch, and it makes the soil more
friable. Also the manure from under the
sheep shed is excellent if the top foot or so
is removed.
“Karaway”: If bots are suspected in
your district, groom the mokes daily, especi-
ally under the jaws, a place particularly
subject to attack. Brushing destroys the
eggs.
“Sylvester”: To poison bandicoots and
kangaroo rats, take tops or sides off new
petrol-tins and mix bananas into a paste,
adding crushed strychnine or arsenic. Place
half a cupful on each piece of tin and leave
round the edge of your cultivation. If
bananas are off, try pollard or crushed
maize. The bright tin attracts the rodents.
“Jack Point”: To tell the age of an egg,
make a solution of two parts water to one
part salt. An egg not more than 36 hours
old will sink to the bottom of the dish ; an
egg two to three days old will sink, but
not to the bottom. As the age increases, the
larger end tends to rise; an egg five days
old will rise to an angle of 20 degrees ; eight
days, to 45 degrees; 14 days, to 60 degrees;
a month old it stands upright, the small
end pointing downward.
“Tenrag” A good tonic for all classes of
poultry. Mix loz. powdered sulphate of
lime in a pint of water, shake and allow it
to stand until clear, then add one teaspoon
per gallon of drinking water, together with
two teaspoons of Epsom salts, which should
be dissolved in water beforehand. Give the
mixture in earthenware vessels.
Apropos of an argument on this Page
as to the value (or otherwise) of seaweed
as a fertiliser, the N.S.W. Department of
Agrculture had samples of seaweed collected
in Sydney Harbor, Botany Bay and Port
Hacking analysed. Results were disappoint-
ing : the mean of the analyses showed
75.1 p.c. of moisture, 14.3 p.c. of organic
and volatile matter, 6.6 p.c. of ash, 1.26
p.c. of potash, 0.47 p.c. of phosphoric acid
and 0.42 p.c. of nitrogen. In effect, 10001 b.
of this seaweed would contain only 4.21 b. of
nitrogen, 4.71 b. of phosphoric acid and 12.61 b.
of potash. So the department concludes
that “it is not economical for country
farmers to use, as the cost of collecting and
transport would amount to many times the
value of the fertilising compounds in the
weed.”
“Eegup”: Generally speaking, it does not
pay to scour wool in the country unless
freight is a very heavy item. When the
rail trip is over 500 miles and there is a
scour at the railhead, it unquestionably pays
to scour free, dusty wools. Some growers
with faulty wool have the whole clip scoured.
This is rarely advisable, as the top does
not sell well. Even from long distances only
heavy lines, such as bellies, second pieces,
stained, crutohings and locks, should be
scoured, and they must be scoured clean.
When the station is reasonably near to the
selling centre it is better to offer the whole
clip in the grease. There is much more
competition, as a rule, for greasy wool than
scoured.
“Dunboy”: A Westralian wheat-belt
neighbor, aiming at economy, did not shear
his lambs in early September. By mid-
October in every corner of his paddock the
little fellows were running in circles,
blinded by the barley-grass seeds, which, if
they had not penetrated the socket, had col-
lected in the moist wool about their eyes,
making the lids too heavy to open. Many
fell down and could not rise unassisted;
flies got to the festering sores on others. It
was impossible to drive them to the yards,
so they had to be collected in a motor-truck
before they could be taken to the shearing-
sheds. And then the wool was burry.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. : ;
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.-
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Plumber, many years’ exp. N.Z. and Pacific
Islands, wants engagement New Guinea or elsewhere.
—2798.
To rent week-end shack, near Sydney, close water.
—2BlO.
Lady, visiting London and Belgium about March,
desires helpful information from readers who have
been there on any point of travelling.—279s.
Words of verse “The Rhyme of the Terrible Turk.”
—2809.
Words of Henry Lawson’s “Ballad of the Drover.”
—2783.
Words of songs “The End of a Perfect' Day”
apd' “Absent.”—2B44.
To buy writings on economies by Prof. Milhaud.
—2675.
To hear from others interested in amateur theatri-
cals, with a view to exchanging sketches, mono-
logues, etc. —2847. *
Whereabouts of Sheeton O’Really,* formerly of
Papua.—27Bs.
Whereabouts of Hilda Powell, resident of Albert
Park, Vic., for many years.—27ls.
Information Sought.
A manufacturer ( certificated) sells to a
wholesaler ( certificated) who in turn sells
to a retailer ( certificated ). Retailer sells
to public {uncertilicatcd). Who pays the
sales tax? —1923.
Tax is payable by the last registered
person who sells goods to an unregistered
person or to a registered person who is not
permitted to quote the certificate, the prin-
ciple being that a registered person who pays
tax has the right to recover from the pur-
chaser.
(D Where was the racehorse David bred?
(2) His breeding? • (3) Who bred him?
(4) Age when first raced? (5) Age at
death? (6) Principal races won? —2685.
(1) Muswellbrook (N.S.W.). (2) By
Baverstock—Linotype. (3) A. E. Thomp-
son. (4) First raced as a two-year-old in
Nursery Handicap, held at Moorefield
(N.S.W.), Oct. 25, 1919, and was unplaced.
(5) The horse is still alive, and is at the
stud farm of his owner, O. R. Falkiner.
Widgiewa, N.S.W. (6) David scored 20
vvins, 15 seconds and 13 thirds, and won
£31,410 10s. in stakes. A list of his winning
races has been posted.
Row can T keep cut tobacco from going
dry in a pouch or container? —2855.
Place a slice of apple with the tobacco.
This will not only keep it. moist, but re-
moisten any that has gone dry.
Top-dressing for the ant-bed floor of a
garage to prevent it powdering u-p?— 2800.
One thing to do js to cement the floor
with a mixture of 3 parts ant-bed to 1 part
cement, on 4 parts sand to 1 part cement,
whichever is handier. Mix with water and
lay on the floor, which should be first
watered. Make small mixings, as it dries
quickly. The coating should be at least lin.
thick. When set, water a little frequently
to ensure slow drying.
(1) In a limited game of poker, ivhen a
jackpot is opened for twice the amount in
front of each player is it permissible for
any player or players other than the opener
to raise the bet before cards are bought?
(2) Must a player accept a faced card in
the buy ? —2857.
(1) The limit, unless otherwise agreed
before play starts, is the amount to which
each individual bet or rise is limited. The
hand next to the opener of a jackpot has
the right to raise the opener’s bet to the
extent of the limit. The hand next to him
again lias the right to further raise the hot
to the limit, and so on right round the table
back to the opener, so that if there are
eight players aud they all like their chances
the eventual cost of coming in may be eight
times the limit. (2) Hoyle gives no rule
as to cards bought. The usual practice is
to allow the player the right either to accept
or reject the faced card.
My son, aged 131 next January, has been
offered a position in 0 Sydney factory. Row
would he stand in regard to the child labor
laws? —2838.
You will require a special permit from the
Minister of Labor, and also an exemption
from school attendance from the Minister of
Education.
(1) Will a 6-1 wit power battery operate a
60-watt Mazda. lamp? (2) Failing this, will
a car headlight bulb provide sufficient illumi-
nation! for a Kodak vertical enlarger? —2Bo6.
. (D Yes, provided a 6-volt 60-watt lamp
is procurable. Such a lamp would consume
10 amperes. (2) This enlarger employs
lamps of from 75 to 200 watts, whereas car
headlights do not run much over 32 watts.
But by increasing the exposure results
should be satisfactory.
(1) Suitable mixture for oiling Tasma-
nian hardwoood weatherboard house? (2)
House was oiled three years ago and the oil
does not appear to have dried properly
where the weatherboards are under cover; i.e.,
there arc many sticky patches. Remedy?
(3) The interior walls of plaster have been
finished with mill white, [f kalsomine were
applied over the mill white would it peel
0ff?— 2570.
(1) Use the best raw linseed oil, with a
strong dash of terebine ; there is no better
preparation. (2) If terebine had been
freely used in the oiling coat:, this would not
have occurred. The addition of plenty of
terebine to the oil for the new coat will
clean up these sticky patches, especially if,
when working on the shady parts, a little
more terebine is used than on the dryer
places. (3) There will be no trouble if you
take a hard brush and scrub off all loose-
ness and flakiuess, then apply a coat pf s ze.
When dry, kalsomine in the usual way. The
coat of size mav be omitted, but it makes
a much better job.
7.9 silicosis the same as miners' phthisis? —
2720.
•No. Phthisis is the medical _ term for
tuberculosis. Silicosis is the condition of a
lung that, has. been invaded by some foreign
material, like fine , dust. The terms are
sometimes confused in loose speaking.
Recipe for waterproofing a flax or linen
fishing line?— 2338.
Add to copal or “spar” varnish 1 p.c. of
castor oil. Apply to line either by dipping
or by means of a piece of flannel, _ after
which allow the line to dry before coiling.
(1) What is the “personal covenant" in
a mortgage? (2) Effect of wiping ; it out?
(3) Was the covenant suspended in N. 8.
Wales only?-— 2651. ' .
(1) It was one of the covenants included in
every N.S.W.,mortgage made pr or to the pass-
ing, of the Moratorium Acts and stipulated,
in effect, that over and above the security of
the property mortgaged the mortgagor
should become personally liable for the re-
payment of the money advanced. (2) The
effect, broadly speaking, is to confine the
mortgagee to one resort for the recovery of
the money advanced—the mortgaged pro-
perty. (3) Yes.
What is the outlook in Kenya Colony?
—2813.
This Department’s latest information is
from a correspondent who wrote early in
August. At that time, he said, to add to
their other troubles,' they were in the midst
of a campaign against swarms grass-
hoppers, which had invaded both Kenya and
Uganda. He added that an Anzac Society
had just been formed, and “we hope that
no further Australians will come this way
expecting to find conditions better than they
are in their home land.”
(1) Were any of the N.B.W. stamps litho-
graphed? If so, which? (2) When did
N.B.W. cease to issue stamps? —lBo2.
(1) In August, 1859, the then current 2d.
diadem was lithographed owing to the 2d.
plate being damaged. This stamp is very
scarce. In 1597, Id. and stamps were
lithographed and sold at Is. and 2s. 6d.
respectively, the amount realised in excess
of postal values being devoted to a fund for
establishing a hospital for consumptives. (2)
In the beginning of 1913 the stamps of
N.S.W. were replaced by the Commonwealth
series.
(1) How to keep tools from rusting? (2)
Recipe for an ink suitable for writing on
metal?— lBl3..
(1) Dissolve -Joz. of camphor in lib. of
melted lard: skim and mix in as much black-
lead as will give it an iron color. Smear
tools, and after 24 hours rub clean with a
soft linen cloth. (2) Add chloride of
platinum to 1 pint, of soft water. Use witli
a quill pen.
(1) When and by whom teas selenium
discovered? (2) How were its light sensi-
tive properties found? (3) Is selenium used-
in talking-picture apparatus? —lB2s.
(1) Berzelius, in 1817. (2) A tele-
graphist named May made the discovery by
accident. The needles of his instruments
were noticed to flicker unaccountably each
time he moved his hand over a selenium
resistance in such a manner that it was
placed alternately in light and shadow. (3)
No; a more suitable device, called a photo-
electric cell, which resembles a wireless
valve, is used.
In a dispute regarding maintenance of
fences between neighbors in a Sydney suburb
does it make any difference which side the
palings are nailed? —2718.
No. So far as Statute law goes each
neighbor is liable for half cost of upkeep of
each dividing fence.
(1) What is gauffrage is connection with
color prints? (2) Process necessary to
secure a gauffrage effect? —2820.
(1) A process of raising in relief applied
to prints so as to secure an effect of fluting
or crimping. (2) By cutting a block in
register with the key block but with only
the parts to be treated by gauffrage indi-
cated on it. This when applied to the print
embosses it where required.
How to remove green stains from a bath?
—2730.
Try slopping the stains with a strong
solution of vinegar and salt. If the verdi-
gris has got down to the metal under the
enamel you will have to scrape it out. This
wall leave a damaged spot, which can be
fairly well repaired by three coats of bath
enamel over the spot.
I have some small Japanese figures which
I have been told are netsukes. (1) What
are netsukes? (2) How can I identify
mine ?- —2829.
(1) Pieces of wood, ivory, white porce-
lain, jade, onyx or crystal through which
the Japanese pass the cords or chains of
their tobacco pouches to fasten them within
their belts. Generally they are intricately
carved. (2) If the cords necessary to sus-
pend the pouch can be passed through any
of the pierced work in the figures, they may
be; if they possess two special holes for
the purpose, they are certainly netsukes.
Genuine ones usually show signs of rubbing
not only where the cords pass through, but
all over.
My daphne is yellowing. What shall I
d0?— 2600. '
The foliage on daphne shrubs oiten
yellows after the flowering is over. Prune
the ends of the limbs and mulch the soil
about the base, and once a week give a
tonic of loz. sulphate of iron to 2 gallons of
water. Faulty drainage will kill off daphne,
but a trench running at right angles'to the
shrub will drain the soil and save the shrub.
Will stocks do as well the second year
as the first? What treatment should they
he given? —2B27.
In suitable climates (not too hot) stocks
will bloom well in the second year. Cut off
the old growth after the flowering and tie
the plants firmly to stakes. When new
lateral growth shows in February give
liquid manure and water freely. But they
should not be kept after the first year unless
the flowers are of exceptional quality.
How to get rid of briar which is spoiling
my standard roses and retarding them? —
2823.
Where the briar is coming from the roots
of the plants remove the soil and cut off
the shoots which are sprouting from the
main stem. Eyes which shoot on the briar
stem should be cut out with a sharp knife
and a little soil rubbed into them.
Definition of'the “basic” and the “second-
ary” wage? Who fixes these wages -2832.
The basic wage in Australia is understood
to mean the lowest wage which should be
paid to an unskilled laborer on the basis
of the normal needs of a family man in a
civilised community. The rate is fixed by
tribunals officiating under Federal and State-
Arbitration Acts, and is varied from time
to time according to statistical estimates of
the cost of living and hypotheses as to the
extent, of family represented by each indi-
vidual. The secondary wage is a rate pro-
viding extra payment for trained skill or
other special qualities.
(1) How to test acidity or alkalinity of
a solution by the pH process? (2) What
apparatus is required? —2s42.
(1) The degree of acidity or alkalinity can
be found by measuring the E.M.F. set up
between electrodes of known qualities when
immersed in the solution under test. The
electrodes most widely chosen are the hydro-
gen and saturated potassium chloride-calo-
mel. The pH (hydrogen ion concentration),
and therefore the concentration of free
hydrogen ions, can be found directly from
the measurement of the. E.M.F. and the nor-
mality of the acid solution derived therefrom
if the percentage ionization of the solution
is known. (2) Calomel electrode with
stopper and platinum wire; vessel contain-
ing potassium chloride; hydrogen electrode
with mercury trap; gas wash-bottle; ioni-
zation potentiometer with necessary cells
and galvanometer. See “Outlines of Physi-
cal Chemistry,” by G. Senter.
(1) Area a/nd population (white and
black) of the Trobriands and Woodlark
Islands? (2) Distances of same from Sam-
urai. (3) Gan land be taken up in these
islands on a long lease? . (4) Is the land
there suitable for growing tung-oil trees?
(5) Must an Australian-born person have a
passport to settle there? —2534.
(1) Trobriands: population, white, only a
few; native, about 8509; area, not avail-
able. Woodlark: no details of population
available; area, about 370 sq. m., of which
50 sq. m. is mineral-bearing country. (2)
Trobriands, 180 to 200 miles; Woodlaik,
ISO miles. (3) Apply to Prime Minister’s
Dept.. Canberra. (4) It is not known
whether tung-oil trees will grow in , Papua,
but p-actically all tropical plants and trees
do well. (5) A passport is not necessary,
but the authorities would have to be satis-
fied that an intending settler had sufficient
capital.
How to get rid of an insect that eats
Moguettc upholstery? —2Bo2.
The damage. is caused by carpet beetles,
minute insects which work in the dark.
Take the furniture out into the open, and
drench it in petrol, or spray well with any
good commercial fly-spray. See that the
mixture penetrates into crevices and pleats.
Allow the furniture to dry in the open
before bringing it inside. Repeat the pro-
cess two or three times at intervals of 10
days or so, to catch subsequent hatchings,
and take steps to prevent the insects harbor-
ing in walls or other things adjacent to
the furniture.
(1) Duty on tea per lb. from . Ceylon?
(2) Any possibility of the tariff being
raised? " (3) Would I be. required to pay
handling and wharfage charges this end if
I buy on basis of free delivery in any port
of the tvorld? (4) Name of an agent in
Brisbane who could handle the landing and
railings, etc.? (5) Would I require a
license if I undertook the selling of such
tea in Australia? (6) Any other informa-
tion on the subject? —2sB7.
(1) Fourpence per lb. and 10 p.c. primage
ad valorem, plus 6 p.c. sahs tax, plus 20
p.c. (2) Can’t prophesy, but there seems
no reason for an increase. (3) Yes. In a
port means in the harbor. (4) Robinson and
Bott, or any other customs agents. (5)
Hawker’s license may be required by muni-
cipal council. Depends on where and how
sales are made. (6) In working out your
cost allow 251 P-c. exchange for transfer-
ring your payment abroad.
(1) What is the origin of the kelpie?
(2) Are barbs and kelpies the same? (3)
Is there any dingo in the kelpie? —27s2.
(1) It was bred from a dog named
Caesar, a son of two imported fox-smooth
collies, and a black and tan collie bitch
called Kelpie. (2) No, the barb is an off-
shoot from the kelpie. (3) Yes, from Kelpie,,
who had a slight infusion of dingo in her
breeding.
How to make (1) cloudy ammonia, and
(2) a reliable floor polish? —277o.
(1) Strong ammonia water, by weight, 16
parts; common yellow soap, 64 parts; potas-
sium nitrate, 1 part; soft water, sufficient
to make the whole mixture up to 200 parts.
Shave up the soap, and dissolve it in the
water by heating; then add the potassium
nitrate and dissolve. Cool, strain, skim off
any bubbles or suds, add the ammonia, mix
quickly, and bottle at once with rubber
corks. (2) Dissolve beeswax and turpen-
tine to a soft paste.
Brief Answers.
R.M.0.: Australia has 2.2 persons to
the square mile, ahd is the most sparsely populated
of civilised countries A.M.R.: N 0 home cure for
hernia. Operation might be possible with local
anaesthetic... .W.H.: “A Bibliography of Australian
Poetry and Verse,” by Percival Serle L.S.: (1)
“Pruning for Australia,” by George Quinn. (2) ss.
(3) The author is Horticultural Instructor in the
S.A. Agriculture Dept M.C.: He was awarded a
Colonial Auxiliary Forces decoration for efficiency
and long service. .. .L.E.P.: Write editor, “Herald,”
15 Jurors-street, Montreal, Quebec E.V.H.: Com-
municate Mitchell Library, Macquarie-street; Royal
Australian Historical Society, Education Buildings,
Bridge-street; Registrar-General’s Dept., Queen’s-
square—all Sydney... .A.8.E.: Write Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York-street, Sydney....
R.J.A.: Depends upon the student’s present age,
educational qualifications and the branch of science
he wishes to f0110w... .F.S.: Mrs. Forrest’s published
verse includes the volumes “Alpha Centauri” and
“Streets and Gardens”... .G.G.F. : Can’t advise you
unless u T e know nature of crop, how the pest operates,
and size of your garden. . .C.8.N.: Drop a line to any
of the leading Sydney booksellers.. .R.G.: Particulars
obtainable from Local Government Dept., Sydney....
W.M.N.: Different weeds require different treatment.
You don’t state what species is infesting your land.
•.. . W.H.S.H.: Write Air Board, Defence Dept.,
Melbourne, Vic P.F.T.: (1) Peanuts are not
recognised as fowl food and difficulty might be
experienced in trying to convince the board that
they are being grown for such purpose. You could
ask for an exemption under section 15 of the Primary
Producers’ Organisation and Marketing Acts. (2)
Get a copy of the Act from Q’land Government
Printer.. . .M.L.M.: 20 tons. (2) Material makes
little difference. (3) A 35ft. boat with 30 h.p.
Diesel or heavy-duty engine... .F.J.S.: Write District
Naval Officer, Naval Dep6t, Beach-road, Edgeeliff,
Sydney... .A.M.R.: Write to the Lecturer-in-Charge,
Tanning School, Bourke-street, Waterloo, Sydney.
A.F.P.: A limited number of scholarships tenable at
Sydney Teachers’ Training Coll, will be available on
results of Leaving Certificate exam R.G.S.: (1)
Estimated that less than fib. of coffee per head of
population is consumed in Australia annually. (2)
1930-31, 1,923,0231 b. (3) 1930-31, 696,2141 b. (4) See
market reports. (5) There is a strong demand for
other than the varieties grown in British possessions.
... . R.J.W.: See “Commonwealth Official Year-Book.”
.. . .E.K.IL : (1) They are not publishers but literary
agents. They would handle the work for you. (2)
See “Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book.” (3) No,
if he rejected it he would return it direct to you.
(4) Yes, if it could be arranged... .C.N.: (1) No
matrimonial advts. (2) Technological Museum,
Sydney, will furnish particulars. (3) Write Marine
Dept., Brisbane. (4) A pamphlet on the subject is
obtainable from the Agricultural Dept., Brisbane. (5)
Do not know of any permanent market. (6) Shark
Fisheries, 17 O’Connell-street, Sydney, might arrange
sale. .. .M.D.: Depends entirely upon the quality of
the silk used. A medium quality runs to about 40 or
50. A weaver in England threads his loom to as
many as 200... .H.M.D.: Write P. and 0., 247
George-street, Sydney... .R.F.0.N.: No analyses have
been made. Any textbook on the manufacture of
producer or water gas will give the composition of
gases formed by passing steam over heated coke or
charcoal.... W.M.: Attempts have been made to in-
troduce cattle and sheep to the Caroline Islands, but
results so far have not been encouraging....
M.V.: It is not practicable to clean the generator
of the Colman petrol lamp owing to shape of tube.
New generators from Brandts, 371 Pitt-street, Sydney,
3s. 6d R.P.T.: Catherine Helen Spence was born
at Melrose, in Scotland, on October 31, 1825....
M.A.M.: It is what nurserymen call Slylidium; really
Candollea.... H.H.: Kareelah means “the south
wind” ; Jerriga, “a reedy swamp” ; Morangarell, “the
water fowl’s nest”; and Winangubbah, “where a
dingo stole meat” —all are abo. words.... A.H.C.: To
prepare tincture of iodine from the substance men-
tioned, it will be necessary to mix 2 p.c. iodum, 2-J
p.e. iodide of potash, 2-j p.c. water and 90 p.c.
alcohol. .. .A.P.11.: The boy would improve his
physique better by attending a gymnasium in his own
city. .. .T.S.: The present establishment of the Per-
manent Air Force is 102 officers and 788 airmen,
and of the Citizen Air Force, 48 officers and 260
airmen... .L.M.K.: A good wash with spirit soap and
warm water, and then a wash with a basin or. two
of clean, warm water, often helps. It should be
done frequently... .C.H.C.: It is not due to a blood
condition unless it occurs in connection with some
special trouble like influenza or pneumonia. Keeping
the lips from getting too dry helps—use a little
vaseline when going out in the wind... .D.G.M.D.:
Some voices take longer to settle down than others.
Nothing can be done about it. The most comforting
thing is that a “high” voice is not nearly as obvious
as the owner thinks it is... N. J. 8.: Have never heard
of it, except in the recognised methods of pivot or
ordinary false teeth. Imitation teeth can’t grow
blood-vessels, nerves, etc A.M.R.: Superfluous
hairs can be safely removed by electrolysis. X-ray
is sometimes used.... J.F.W.: Know of nothing that
can quite shut out the noise. Plug the ears well
with cotton w 001... .N.F.N.: He was a director but
is no longer associated with the co. Believed to be
in England F.S.: “Handy Hints for the Farm,”
from this office, Is K.J.K.: Pieton (N.S.W.) was
first known as Stonequarry. In 1840 Major Antill
called his estate in the district “Pieton” (in honor
of General Sir Thomas Pieton, who was killed a!
the battle of Waterloo) and this name was after-
wards adopted in place of the old one... .K.JS.:
The Association of Simplified Practice was formed
to eliminate waste. It amalgamated witli the
Engineering Standards Association, and the amal-
gamated body now operates under the name of the
Standards Association of Australia... .H.F.T.: No.
The inland districts of W.A. were at one time
regarded as the driest part of Australia, but
authentic observations have corrected that impression.
The driest known part of the continent is in the
Lake Eyre district in S.A., where the annual average
is only sin. ...S.S.: The conjugal condition of persons
to whom invalid pensions were granted during 1930
was as follows: Males—single, 2082 ; married, 2307;
widowed, 272. Females—single, 1964 ; married,
1541; widowed, 1026... .11.K.D.: The site of the
Commonwealth Solar Observatory is on Mount
Stromlo, a ridge of hills about seven miles west of
Canberra. The highest point is about 2560 feet
above sea level, 700 feet above the general level
of the Federal capital city P.J.: Write Secretary,
Aero Club of South Africa, Box 2668, G.P.0., Cape-
town, Cape Province, South Africa L.A.: Sir
Gerald Du Maurier was born at Hampstead, March
26, 1873, son of George Du Maurier, “Punch” artist
and author of “Trilby”... .V.8.P.: (1) Write
Registrar, Herald’s College, Queen Victoria-street,
London, E.C.4 W.H.W.: A. W. Robinson, Wingello
House, Angel-place, Sydney J. 11.: Pharmacy
Board of N. S. Wales, 7 Richmond-terrace,
Domain, Sydney, will furnish full particulars
R.M.J.: “Landscape Painting from Nature in Aus-
tralia,” by A. J. Daplyn L.R.: Winter is the
best season for crocodile shooting in North Q’land.
.... (Many others mailed.)


RTfVfff
HE HU EE
The World Market for
125,000 Trade Buyers
FREE TRIP TO LEIPZIG.
As a special inducement to Australian Buyers deciding to visit the
Leipzig Trade Fair, the Authorities are offering generous rebates on
all travelling expenses to Leipzig. This facility, combined with
the advantages of securing all classes of merchandise at extra-
ordinarily low prices, will amply repay Trade Buvers for the time
taken on the trip.
SPRING FAIR COMMENCES MARCH 5,1933
Comprising Samples Fair, Textiles, Sporting Goods Adver-
tising Novelties, Furniture, Great Engineering and Building
Fairs.—(7soo Exhibitors.)
The W.E.Z. Catalogue, profusely illustrated, is available to Trade
Buyers. The Organisation will gladly supply names of reputable
German Export Houses. Full details are obtainable of the
Authorised Representatives, Lars G. Brundahl, 121 Pitt Street
Sydney. (Phones: 84006, MW2201.) C. N. Keppel, Box 1658
G.P.0., Melbourne. H. C. Ittershagen, West Subiaco, Perth, WA.
Leipzig Trade Fair
IN THE HEART
( OF BEAUTIFUI
GERMANY
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DITBCtOTS *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.: OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, j3.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
_ . „„ lasses °t General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Is Peter Pan as good as Phar Lap was at
three years? Duncan says he is, and,
though some jockeys are rotten judges, Dun-
can is a level-headed fellow, as well as being
the greatest horseman of his weight this
generation has seen. At all events, Peter
Pan beat a better Melbourne Cup field than
Phar Lap encountered as a three-year-old,
and met with interference, which Phar Lap
escaped—granted that the more famous
chestnut was injudiciously ridden. Moving
up on the rails near the five-furlong post,
Peter Pan cannoned against Manawhenua,
who had suddenly swerved in, was knocked
back several horses and nearly knocked
down. How the colt, steadied by Duncan,
got into his stride again, set out after the
leaders and cut them down one by one until
there was only Darcy Eceles’s Yarramba
ahead of him ; how, with 70,000 people cheer-
ing, he caught and passed the outsider and
concluded his gallant effort the winner,
by a neck, in time which has been
beaten only twice, is now turf history, and
a most inspiriting chapter of it. There has
never been a more thrilling Cup race, and by
getting a place for the third time Shadow
King added to his worthy reputation.
Peter Pan is green compared with what
Phar Lap was at the same age. H'e
astounded Duncan by literally bounding
when pricked with the spurs in the Mel-
bourne Stakes. That mount helped the little
jockey to gain understanding of his tempera-
ment, and Duncan knew exactly what tactics
to employ in the Cup. When autumn arrives
Peter Pan, if he keeps well, should be in-
vincible on other than handicap terms. He
Bert'. 4 How are you platoncs
just now, ? "
Gert "VERY seldom".
Bert’, what's voue
HANDICAP 5 f"
<SERT "Mv LAST VEARS SUBSCRIPTION",
was not nominated for the V.R.C. St. Leger,
and if he meets Liberal it will have to be
in the St. Leger at Randwick. A. G. Hunter
is not likely to avoid such an encounter, for
Windbag is in his Seymour stud, and it
would be an immense feather in the cap of
that stallion if his son could lower the
colors of R. R. Dangar’s colt.
Surprising things happened at Flemington.
Chatham, sent out at evens for the Cantala
Stakes, stopped after making a short run
in the straight and Denis Boy scored de-
cisively from Winooka and Dermid. As
Winooka met A. E. Blair’s stallion on 71b.
better terms in the Linlithgow Stakes on the
Thursday, he was seized upon as a good
thing. Joe Matthews, part-owner of
Winooka, declared that he could not be
beaten. The bookmaker from Sydney was
amazed when Chatham smothered Winooka
at the distance and romped home in advance
of Dermid. Punters bit their fingers over
allowing a superlative miler like Chatham
to go out at 7 to 2 in a field of four.
Stewards held an inquiry over the reversal
of form and accepted the explanation of
Blair and his trainer, Fred Williams. It is
now thought that Chatham, who admittedly
makes a noise when galloping, choked up in
the Cantala Stakes.
Dermid suffered from a cold after com-
peting in the Caulfield Cup, and Donohoe
did not fancy him in either the Cantala
Stakes or the Linlithgow Stakes. The
Tippler gelding must be of rare calibre to
have performed so well as he did. Kuvera
scored under extreme difficulties in the Car-
nival Handicap on Oaks Day, and Turbine,
whom he narrowly vanquished, came to light
in the Batman Stakes, for three-year-olds,
on Saturday. This afforded Jack King
some compensation for Oro’s failures in the
Derby and Cup. He has a half-share in
Turbine, It would have given King far
more pleasure to see Oro win a race, and
he wili return to Sydney with the firm con-
viction that the Roger de Busli colt was pre-
cluded from doing himself justice. It was
the accident to Kuvera that ruined Oro’s
Derby chance.
Punters fared disastrously on. the closing
day. Not one favorite caught the judge’s
eye, and three winners started at 12 to 1,
33 to 1, and 12 to 1. The 100-to-3 chance
was Ivorine, a Pantheon filly from South
Aus. Limarch could not have lost the Flem-
ington Stakes had he kept a straight course.
He was beaten for second place by Hall
Mark, a Heroic colt from Holt’s stable. It
transpired that Hall Mark had crossed the
field at the beginning of the race. People
left the course in ignorance of the fact that
Duncan was on the official carpet for his
handling of Hall Mark. They did not learn
until late in the evening that the crack
jockey had been suspended for three months.
This punishment is really not as severe as
that administered to Pike in Sydney; it will
not cost Duncan as many valuable rides as
Pike lost.
For the most part, the spoils of victory
went to Sydney. Local candidates carried
off the Maribyrnong Plate, the Victoria
Derby and Oaks, but the Melbourne Stakes
and Cup, the Cantala Stakes, the Linlithgow
Stakes, the Carnival Handicap, the C. B.
Fisher Plate and the Batman Stakes were
captured by Sydney horses. On the final day
South Aus. had a share of success by taking
the Ottawa Stakes, for fillies, with Ivorine.
His victory in the weiglit-for-age event at
the Caulfield Cup meeting, following upon
autumn triumphs, caused Middle Watch to
be regarded as the best thoroughbred in Vic-
toria, if not in the Commonwealth; but J. S.
Feehan’s stallion was below par at Fleming-
ton, being beaten into third place by Peter
Pan and Rogilla in the Melbourne Stakes
and shaping very disappointingly in the
Cup.
“Ike Mcßagg”: The usual bitter yowl
was heard from the Ring after the Mel-
bourne Cup. Peter Pan’s victory had
ruined the fraternity. He started favorite
at 4 to 1, but there was no support for him
until half-way through September. Rogilla,
Lough Neagh, Middle Watch, Liberal 1 and
Oro all carried tons of money, and none of
them ran into a place. Middle Watch was
backed from the appearance of the weights.
What became of the big sums held by the
bagmen on those horses, to say nothing of
others that carried good bets? In cold fact,
the people who paid the backers of Peter Pan
were the punters who backed the other nags.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: What irony may lie in
a name! In the two office Cup sweeps I
drew an animal named Jeldiwallah. It was
not until next morning that I recalled that
the name was Hindi for Fast Fellow —and
the brute, they tell me, beat only one horse
home —and he broke down.
* :J: * *
For Williamstown on Saturday:—
Cup Hurdle: Walter Scott; next, Phocis.
Two-year-old Handicap: Limarch; next,
Variance.
Williamstown Cup: Kuvera.
❖ :|: %
Considering the attractions of the inter-
state cricket match and a pony meeting
there was quite a large crowd at Rosehill.
Regulars who stayed away must have con-
gratulated themselves after hearing the
results of the first three races, but punters
did better afterwards. It was thought that
Forestry, one of the unlucky lot from Maori-
land, might pick up a race at last in the
Maiden Handicap, but the chestnut, very
clumsy in a field, was last after they had
gone half a mile and failed to make up his
ground, while the second favorite, Exchequer,
was left lengths at the post. Chrystal Tin
(12 to 1), a gelding by Chrysolaus—Mals-
tinny, grey like his sire, won, to the delight
of McShortodds, by a head from Parfait
Amour and Nellabar, who had rather too
much pacemaking to do. Parfait Amour, a
six-year-old sister to Amounis, and carrying
the same colors, returned £7 14s. for 10s.—
rather amazing in view of the JVTpfxrath
stable’s run of luck. There are generally a
few people who would follow a successful
trainer if he saddled up carthorses.
Windbag and Heroic have established their
reputations as sires, Manfred has given the
turf some pretty good horses (though none in
Ins own class as yet), and now Rampion is
coming into the picture. He was represented
in the Two-year-old Stakes by Ramadan, a
brown gelding out of Galtee Queen, dam of
A'aals and Sion. Though unfancied by the
stable—he is trained by Joe Cook for news-
paper-knight Hugh Denison—Ramadan hit
the front early and stayed there, showing
gameness in a tight finish with Maltwing.
At 20 to 1 m the ring (no takers) he was
specked by a few tote punters on his breeding,
They drew £ll os. for 10s., and the div. on
the third, Motilla, was £5 2s. _ _
„ * ‘ ’ ,
People were. rather astonished to see
Legislator figuring in the Clyde Handicap,
and as favorite withal, since victory would
have prompted the handicapper to put a few
pounds on his weight for the Yilliers Stakes.
He looked as if lie could have done with
another gallop or two, but after getting into
difficulties early lie came fast over the last
furlong of the seven (run in 1.26), though
not fast enough to catch Magnetic (8 to 1),
now owned as well as trained by young
Lamond. Promptitude was a good third;
Tilt ran erratically and apparently won’t do
her best for the small boy who has been
riding her.
A favorite, AVaugoola (5 to 2), prevailed
in the fourth race, the November Handicap,
but it was a near thing. The distance—a
mile and a quarter—wag new to AVaugoola,
but he came home stoutly, after being out in
front with New King, and proved to have a
little in reserve when tackled by Rosendo
(8 to 1), Welsh riding him a capital race.
He is engaged in the Christmas Cups, and
there seems no reason why he should not
stay a mile and a half; he is by Duke
Humphrey—Justina. Bawn-na-Glas did the
best of the others. Plilare and Circus Star,
next in demand to Waugoola, shaped dis-
appointingly.
Orpah (2 to 1) registered the easiest win
of the day in her division of the Trial
Stakes, and two ancients, Nut Cup (5 to 2)
and Killarney (4 to 1), had the finish of the
Rydalmere Mile to themselves. Nut Cup
compensated Booth for his strange failure at
Moorefield, but his barrier manners, always
bad, are not improving. Starter Gaxieu, very
skilful in getting these refractory brutes
away, has had enough of Nut Cup and told
the A.J.C.. so.
# * * *
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Macquarie Grove Handicap: Autumn
Leaf; next, Tilt.
Varroville Handicap: Sweet Maggie; next,
Fordlight.
ITomebush Handicap: Waugoola; next,
Circus Star.
Farm Stakes; Nellabar; next, Samian
King.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Kid (Cecil) Como, who comes from
Louisiana, outpointed Jimmy Kelso in a
return bout at Leichhardt. Kelso landed a
few lusty lefts to the body early, but Como’s
work was much cleaner, and the stranger
received a popular decision at the end of lu
fast rounds.
* * ❖ *
Lurich, the wrestler, is reported to be
making a steady £9O a week. He gave the
£9O a miss last week-end, but as _ referee
did his best to make the show given by
Browning and Labriola at Leichhardt enter-
taining. He forgot liis part once, and hurled
himselt at Browning; but other features of
the tussle failed to thrill. Browning scored
the only fall in the fifth' round.
|
Ins and Outs
Heavy scoring was the outstanding
feature of the first-class cricket matches,
at the week-end. At Adelaide, the English-
men, batting against a bowling side weak*
ened by Wall’s absence and Grimmett’s
lack of practice, closed with 9 for 634.-
A great stand of 223 for the first wicket
by Sutcliffe (154) and Leyland (127) was
balanced to some extent by the running out
ot Pataudi for a duck. However, Jardine
(108 n. 0.), Larwood (81) and Wyatt (61)
helped to swell the score, Larwood’s shot
being a sensationally hard-hit one.
Grimmett, still on the lame side, finished
with 4 for 176. Nitschke, who held three
catches and ran out Pataudi, was the field-
ing success of the innings, and with Rich-
ardson gave the home side a good start,
Nitschke going at 123 for 69. _He and
Victor Richardson belted the English bowh
ing in rare style. On Monday Richardson
carried his contribution to 134, a little less
than half the total, 290. Brown came off ;
4 for 41.
* * * *
The Victorians began well in their match
against N. S. Wales at the Sydney C. G„
Woodfull and Ponsford taking the score to
138 before the captain was run out for
72. Ponsford went steadily on, and reached
200 before Kippax caught him off Hird;
the innings was as fine a one as he has
ever played. ‘ Barnett (35) and Fleetwood-
Smith (38) helped and the innings ended
at 404. The bowling of O’Reilly, however,
was even more interesting than Ponsford’s
return to form. He sent down 44 overs
and took 5 for 81, a performance
which should make his inclusion in the
Australian XI a certainty. Hird’s slows
resulted in 3 for 115. N.S.W. had lost
Fingleton (6) and Bill (19) when Bradman
went in after lunch. By stumps, he had
made 238 in 200 minutes and with the help
of Kippax (52) and McCabe (36 n. 0.) had
brought the N.S.W. total to 358 f-or four
wickets. The champion scored at a pelting
rate from the start, slow, medium, and fast
bowling being all one to him. Fleetwood-
Smith, who ended, the day with 2 for 110,
stuck to his task well and greatly impressed
the onlookers, it was he who dismissed Brad-
man. Alexander (2 for 66) sent down some
capital fast stuff, and on Monday he made it
7 for 95, the total being 475 (McCabe, 56).
Without Ponsford, Victoria was dismissed
for 150 (Woodfull, 83) ; Hird (6 for 56) did
most of the damage. An ankle injury had
sent Ponsford off the field.
{Continued on page 30.)
“Stand Off”: Rules to govern the con-
duct of the team for South Africa have
been drawn up by the N.S.W. Rugby Union
and approved by the Queensland and Vic-
torian authorities. No member may write
or broadcast football stuff, all must com-
plete the tour unless the manager orders
otherwise, and women will not be allowed
to accompany the team. Nor may apy
player go on tour unless he is financial with
his club or union in Australia. One result
of the extension of the amateur code to
other States will be the foundation of an
Australian Rugby Union, and a constitu-
tion is now being formulated.


MCA HUMS
PERFEC T/OM
SCOTS
•■iv’
»nrf
0)
<0
*<)tNUO
SKY
f ESTABLISHED 1 807,
this fine old Scots Whisky
has 120 years'reputation for
outstanding quality. It is skiL
fully blended for mellowness
and flavour and no better
whisky can be produced.
DUMCALLUMLf
EDINBURGH
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUH:
GOLDSBROUGII, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide. LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
BARTLAMS LTD., Townsville. NORTHERN AUSTRALIAN BREWERIES, LTD., Cairn*.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
■
V>.V,
OS
[iuj. i-.lj
i < iimii
ggug
Xn
o
Steffi
2S
m I
aa
ag:;
5
|r«
4^
O
o-r,
ill
*4
tH
PFKHK
ftais^s
'
s
m
m.
•mm
m
Sr
'
o-
Take an edge so keen that words can t
describe it —so smooth that it glides like
velvet over the tenderest skin. That s the
new Seven o’clock blade —for all double-
edged razors. Try one. Did you know
that a safety razor shave could be so clean
and quick? Then remember that a shilling
and sixpence buys five of these amazing
blades. Every dealer sells Seven o’clock
razor blades. Get yours to-night.
CLOCK
BLADES
Double edged
MADE IN ENGLAND
m
mm
*
§ss§§
v ' n. >
I
mi / »» B 8 mil
hh| >—mm mm an
i ' v: .*..-. '- i
. • >
• • ...»
FOR AMAZING RESULTS
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney ; or from any branch office —Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).
AN EXAMPLE FROM
REAL LIFE
£4,120 FOR £31:8s.
ON THE 19th MAY
A Proposal was completed for
a Prudential “‘Heritage” Policy
ON THE 23rd MAY
The Proposer was killed
in an accident . . • •
HE HAD PAID ONE YEARLY
PREMIUM OF £31 : 8s.
UNDER THE TERMS OF THE POLICY the
FOLLOWING AMOUNTS WILL BE PAID:
£100 Immediately
£3 A WEEK for the next 20 years
£900 at the end of the 20 years
A TOTAL OF £4,120
To THE PRUDENTIAL ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
Herald Building, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Please supply me with particulars of your “heritage” Policy
My age next birthday is
Name
Address.


VA
arA
He
LE
n
WIIGHT 11®
COP'* QiGmT
7he whole family will benefit
All the invigorating properties of pure barley malt and
rich full-cream milk are blended deliciously in Nestle’s
Malted Milk to provide an appetising beverage for young
and old.
NESTLES
Easy rolled—no better sold
Insist upon
Australian Made
LE NIL
CIGARETTE PAPERS
Super Quality
Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: Bradman’s failure in Perth
against a slow lefthand bowler on a glue-
pot wicket has been the occasion of much
rejoicing in England and among the young
man’s critics in Australia. These—or those
of them that know anything about the
subject—refer feelingly to the fact that
Trumper, Johnny Worrall and Harry
Graham could make runs on a sticky "wicket
almost as freely as on a good one. Giving
that in, I am constrained to remember that
one of the strongest Australian batting
teams ever seen was routed by Peel and
Briggs at Sydney in 1894, when Australia
knocked off: overnight with eight wickets
in hand and only 64 runs to make next
morning. It rained in the night, and with
a hot sun next day England won by 10
runs. Lyons, Trott, Giffen, Syd Gregory
and Joe Darling were some of the batsmen.
Peel took 6 for 67 and Briggs 3 for 25.
Covering the wicket is responsible for the
helplessness of our best batsmen on a bad
pitch. On such a wicket a batsman must
go after the ball and make his own length.
On our mostly perfect pitches even our
stars, with one or two exceptions, are too
prone to wait and let the ball come to
them.
* * * *
“Ibu el Issar”: In spite of his triumph-
ant debut in Westralia, there is a little
cloud already marring the brightness of the
Nawab of Pataudi’s tour. Certain base
fellows among the Perth barrackers showed
a tendency to refer to him as “Gandhi,”
and the Nawab does not regard this as
flattery. For one thing he is a Moslem,
and the followers of the Prophet in India
have as much use for their Hindu fellows
as a toad has for a side-pocket. The young
man is said to be pleasant and a good
mixer. That is more than can be said for
Hindu Ranji, who carried himself very
much en prince when he came to Australia
under Stoddart in 1897-S.
❖ ❖ * *
“Old Q.”: Victoria’s defeat of Queens-
land in Brisbane by an innings and 329
runs is the biggest licking administered to
the northerners in the 112 first-class games
played since 1893. It was a near thing,
though, for in 1903 the Cabbage Gardeners
walked home by an innings and 327. The
Maroons are badly in need of a couple of
batsmen of the type of Thompson and
O’Connor, and though they seem to have a
very promising bowler in young Govan,
Gilbert’s loss of pace and skill is another
knock-back. Playing N.S.W. in Brisbane
this week the home side will be further
handicapped by the loss of Govan and Oxen-
ham; the first is sitting for an exam, and
the other playing for an Australian com-
bination against the Jardines in Melbourne.
* * * ' *
“Mt. Rennie”: One of the real old-time
N.S.W. cricketers, John Allan (“Snowy”)
Thompson, went out last week at 76. He
must have been the last of the round-arm
bowlers who succeeded to the underhand
merchants, and in their turn had to give
way to the over-armers, with their theory
of as-high-as-possible deliveries. In addi-
tion to his prowess on the field Thompson
played a great part in the organisation of
junior cricket in Sydney. He was one of
the fathers of the Moore Park Association,
which, stai’ting in the 1880’s with three or
four clubs, now boasts some 4000 members.
He had the additional distinction of having
laid down the first turf wicket in Moore
Park. Later, finding it was impossible to
keep a turf wicket in a public park, he
evolved the idea of playing on coir matting
laid over levelled earth, and it is claimed
that this pitch, near the Caotain Cook
Hotel, was the first matting wicket in the
world. The matting, by the way, was made
in Darlinghurst gaol.
# * * *
“Fitzcray”: Fleetwood-Smith, who opened
the Sheffield season so auspiciously in Bris-
bane by taking 6 Queensland wickets for
22, can hardly be considered a neophyte in
senior cricket. He came into the Victorian
team last season against Tasmania and in
the first game took 5 for 69 and 5 for 76.
In the second, his tally was 5 for 93 and 1
for 54, and in the third 4 for 88 and 0
for 22. Against South Africa his record
was 6 for 80; against South Australia
7 for 101 and 4 for 19. Up to the end of
the season he had thus taken 37 wickets
for 602 runs.
Following its practice, the Orient Line
has issued a souvenir booklet, with portraits
and biographical sketches, concerning Jar-
dine’s team, which it carried to Austral’a
by the Orontes. The publication is excel-
lently turnecj out, the reproduction work
being exceptionally good.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: As might have been expected,
the American tennis players now in Aus-
tralia have protested against the programme
mapped out for them. They are down for
14 matches and tournaments, and 8000 or
so of miles travelling by train and boat, in
about eight weeks. The long trip to Perth
is particularly objected to. Austral'ans are
also kicking because the N.S.W.L.T.A.,
though it stands to make oodles of brass
out of the Americans’ visit, will not pay the
expenses of players from other States who
desire to compete in the Ma State chain-
pionships. One result may be that Moon
and Cummings, of Queensland, and Quist
and Turnbull, of South Aus., may give the
meeting a piiss. Lawn-tennis control in
Australia has become notorious for mean-
ness and greed and the overworking of will-
ing young horses.
* :Js si: =|:
“Milton”: Unless the Americans ask for
the fixture to be cut out in Brisbane, they
will play Queensland on November 27, a day
after the finish of the first match against
Australia there. The Bananaland team will
be Moon, Cummings, Goodwin, Chave and
Grinstead. Though much will depend on the
form shown against the visitors in the
N.S.W. games, it is more than likely that
Moon will be one of the choices for the first
Test, even if he is unable to show in the
N.S.W. championships, as is probable. The
Americans have a high opinion of him, par-
ticularly as a doubles player.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: An interesting player who
may figure in the N.S.W. championships
is the Maoriland crack E. D. Andrews,
whom Australians last saw when he beat
Hopman and Crawford in 1926. Andrews
won the N.S.W. junior championship and
in the senior singles was narrowly defeated
by Ivalms. The Maorilander then went to
England, and while at Cambridge repre-
sented M.L. in Davis Cup matches. He
is visiting Australia on his way down from
Malaya.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Australian tennis
authorities have decided to support the pro-
THE GOOD SAMARITAN.
FED-UP SECOND: “Try one more round, Bill — we’ll see yer ’ome."
BATTERED PUG: “I ain’t got no ’ome.”
FED-UP SECOND: “Aw, well, we’ll dig yer one.”
posed new Davis Cup rule banning players
who have abandoned or lost their amateur
status, even though they may have been
whitewashed. This proposal followed on
the action of Italy during the last Davis
Cup contest, when it hurriedly reinstated
an outstanding player who had turned pro-
fessional and shoved him into its Davis Cup
team.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: One of the saddest
sights in nature is the spectacle of a stout
female suppressing with difficulty an intense
desire to swear. I beheld it lately when
an associate golfer of some tonnage from
all points of view was playing a game with
the club professional. At the first hole,
about 150 yards, the lady sent the ball
down to the pin and holed out with a short
putt. As the pro. was giving her a stroke
a hole, that meant she was. down in one. The
pro. rose to the occasion and found the tin
with his tee shot, which meant the hole was
halved. As professionals are exempt from
the customary penalty for holing in one,
there was no "way of getting even with him,
but the associate’s face was eloquent.
* * *
“General Kussaput”: We hear of golfers
playing stones, mushrooms, and even a ball
sometimes, but the latest article was heard
of in Queensland. At the Royal Queensland
course a player topped his drive into some
long grass. Arriving at the rough he
noticed what appeared to be his bail, and
not liking to move the grass for fear of
moving the pill he took out his mashie and
played the shot. He nearly put his iron
through the rear end of a hare, whose
white “scut” he had taken for his ball.
“North Shore”: Pymble (N.S.W.) golf
club is altering the layout of its course.
The present one runs to 5469 yards; the
new arrangement will bring it to over 6000.
Several holes are to be lengthened, and the
second will be 580 yards, instead of 473.
Perhaps the most important change is the
elimination of the short third (131), which
has proved a disquieting source of expense
to members because it lent itself to “out-
in-one” shots. It will be used as an
approaching practice ground, while the hole
that takes its place—the old fourth—measures
640 yards. This will mean the making of
a new green, the 17th, and from there to
the 18th members will play up the hill
between two rows of trees. The remaining
hole is the shortest on the course, being
only a few yards away
* * * *
“Hamilton”: The annual report of the
Q.G.C. gives an idea of the bushfire rate at
which the game is spreading in Bananaland.
There are now 51 courses in the State which
have adopted standard scratch scoring,
standards ranging from 60 to 76 strokes. As
all States except N. S. Wales—which has
adopted the par system—adhere to the
standard scratch-score method, Queensland
will also carry on with it, in spite of sug-
gestions that a par system be adopted. The
council is made up of delegates from eight
affiliated associations, with jurisdictions rang-
ing from Thursday Island to Tweed Heads,
and from the Brisbane, Royal Queensland
and Indooroopilly clubs.
* * * *
“H'otham”: In the ordinary course, the
Australian championships will be played in
Melbourne next year, South Aus. having the
1935 tourney. It is proposed that Melbourne
give up 1933 to the Wheatfielders so as to
be able to do itself proud in Vic.’s centenary
year. Metropolitan club, which is organising
the affair, visualises a great international
championship meeting both for amateurs and
professionals. It is estimated that such a
scheme would cost a minimum of £2OOO, but
the promoters are confident they can raise
much more than that if events warrant it.
**■ * *
“Marino” : The professional golf champion-
ship of South Australia, played on the Seaton
course, ended in a win for A. H. Toogood, of
the Grange club, who handed in a card of
302. Rufus Stewart, out of the game for
some time through illness, made a good
return by finishing second, two strokes worse
than the winner. Fergus McMahon was un-
lucky in dropping out because of a strain
when he was showing every sign of keeping
his hold on the championsliip.
Car and Cycle
“Formula”: The craze for the multi-
cylinder car seems to be 'passing. Even
America, which for some time placed a
string of 12- and 8-cylinder cars on the market,
has thought better of it, though 63 per cent,
of last year’s output were eights or over.
Britain, never struck on the 12-cylinder car,
turns out a few makes of eights, but the
majority of the cars made there are sixes
or fours. There is evidence all over the
world that the once-popular four is coming
into vogue again, the modern floating power,
suspension system permitting an effective
cutting out of the vibration that was apt to
be a nuisance in this- type of car.
“Whampoa”: An ingenious device for P ,
venting the stealing of motor-cars is report
from Shanghai. The apparatus is pac
out of sight and a switch is turned on w
the car is parked. The slightest touch on
any part of the car, if the switch is no
turned off, elicits a most paralysing cnor .
of shrieks and yells, which continues . me e-
finitely. What, form the shrieks take is no
stated, but in Shanghai they would probamy
be “Oh, Cli!” “Whaffor?” or something oi
that kind. But the apparatus could be
adapted to the tastes of the owner a
speech by Mr. J. T. Lang, for instance, an
imitation of 15 mill buzzers, or even an
up-to-date symphony in the neo-Muscoyian
manner. There are undoubted possibilities
in the idea.
“Whizz”: After a long spell of idleness.
Maroubra (N.S.W.) speedway was reopened
with a programme for cars. A relay race,
the first of its kind in Australia, was won
by the Wolseley team of three, driving Hor-
nets, one of which hit 78 m.p.h. on the
straight run. The distance was 2-1 miles,
and the time 3min. llsec.
* s': *
“Kick Starter”: The Speedway Royal at
Sydney Showground opened on Saturday
with the first of a series of _ team races
under English dirt-track conditions. The
races are open to all riders, and will help
to determine the selection of the Australian
team to meet the British riders now on the
way to the Commonwealth. The A-arious
speedway managements in Adelaide, Mel-
bourne and Sydney have made themselves
responsible for the tour, and a bumper season
for motor-cycle followers should result.
Miscellaneous
“Shell”: Though Bobby Pearce announced
after winning his second Olympic champion-
ship for Australia at Los Angeles that he
would not again go in for competitive scul-
ling, he is wavering. His Canadian friends
are keen on seeing him again win the
Diamond Sculls at Henley, and it is more
than likely that the big N. S. Welshman
will fall in with the idea. There is also
said to be big backing for Pearce to row
Ted Phelps, the English holder of the
world’s professional title. Though he is
in his prime, and would probably prove
too good for Phelps, there is little chance
of his taking to the money game.
❖ v ❖ ❖
“Hotham”: Melbourne will see practically
the same management committee for the
annual Henley-on-Yarra rowing carnival as
that which officiated last year, J. M. Sem-
mens having been re-elected chairman. The
show starts on November 26, but entries do
not close until early in that week. Prices
to the reserve are to be 2s. in the afternoon
and Is. 6d. in the evening. Kids are a shil-
ling all the time. The association has had
one bit of bad luck in the injurv to the
State sculling champion, C. Peppier, who
broke an arm while cranking a car. Moral
for scullers and others interested in their
arms —see that your car has a self-starter.
* * *
“Hamilton”: In addition to holding the
Australian championships for the 12ft., 16ft.,
and I’Sft. sailing-boat classes (B.
26/10/’32), Queensland has designs on the
title for the 10ft. dinghies, to> be sailed for
in Sydney at Christmas. It is 20 years
since a Queensland 10-footer showed on
Port Jackson, and the last time N.S.W.
and Queensland met in this class was at
Brisbane in 1914. N.S.W. has held the
championship for 10 years, having won it in
Perth with a boat named Kangaroo. Built
in 1911, this little craft is still racing in
Sydney waters.
“Trudgeon”: It looks as if we shall have
a visit from American swimmers “Buster”
Crabbe and Riley after all, though there
threatened to be some hitch in the arrange-
ments. “Riley,” whose real name is Polish
and unpronounceable, is a diver; he, as
well as Crabbe, scored at Los Angeles. An
attempt is also being made to bring out
Jean Taris, who holds several world’s
records.
“Sour Grapes”: The latest squeal from
a disappointed Olympic competitor comes
from Holland. Marie Braun, the Dutch
hope in the ICO metres backstroke swim-
ming event, was taken ill just before
the race and could not compete. The trouble
was supposed to be blo’od poisoning as the
result of an insect bite, but Marie swears
it arose from a hypodermic injection admin-
istered by someone in the crowd. Outside
Holland the statement is ridiculed, but,
whatever the cause, Marie will have to give
up swimming, under medical advice.
* * * *
“Splash”: The flight of amateur cham-
pions to professionalism which' is the after-
math of every Olympiad is now in full
swing. The most notable seceder to date
is Helen Madison. In her debut as a pro.
at Agua Caliente, the place where Phar
Lap made his only appearance on the other
side of the Pacific, she covered 100 yards,
her special distance, in lmin. 4 l-ssec. —a
long way behind her world’s record of
59sec., made in Vancouver two years ago.


“The Premier Sports
House of Australia 9
Mick Simmons are happy at all times to
advise Anglers as to tackle suitable to
Trout waters of New South Wales and
of centres where good sport is to be had.
TROUT
SEASON
Opens Ist November
St
i l
m
?
Mick Simmons’ extensive range of new
stocks from the various fishing manu-
facturers of the world cannot he paralleled
in the Commonwealth to-day. Prices in
every instance will he found to he lower
than those prevailing elsewhere.
RODS.
M.S. Green heart Trout Spinning Rod,
101 ft, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip, double
brazed, snake rings 42/-
3X M.S. Split Cane Combination Trout
Rod, 2-Piece Casting Rod or 10ft 3-Piece
Fly Rod, cork grip, agate butt and end
rings, closely whipped, in bag . . 115/-
3H-Featherweight Split Cane Fly Rod,
81ft, 3 joints, 1 top, cork grip, agate butt,
and end rings, suction joints, ebonite butt
cap, in bag 82/6
3F M.S. Featherweight Split Cane Trout
Rod, 101 ft . 162/6
2-M.S. Perfection Split Cane Trout Rod,
101 ft 155/-
2-Steel Rod, 9ft, 3 joints 8/6
REELS.
68-Metal Check Reels, bronzed with pillar
backs and handle on revolving plate. Size
2in. 7/6 ; 3in ... .... 12/6
1- Trout Reel, well made, with patent
guard. Size, 3|in 17/6
2- Rotary Check Reel, aluminium
alloy, large drum, diameter 31 in, 22/6
4-Metal Trout Reel, bronze bevelled edge,
large aluminium drum, removable check,
3iin diameter 30/-
“ KINGFISHER”
De Luxe Enamel
SILK LINES.
Smooth, pliable, and durable. Colour :
Light Olive Mist, 25-yards Coils, 4 con-
nected.
25yds. 50yds.
Size H Test 12lbs .... 5/- 107-
Size F Test 20lbs 7/- 147-
Size E Test 27lbs .... 8/- 16/-
“RED LOOP" GUT CASTS, 71ft, tapered,
each 2/9
“HERCULES” TAPERED GUT CASTS,
3 yards 2/9 each
TROUT FLIES. All popular patterns.
Sizes 6,8, and 10. Wet, 3/9 per dozen;
dry, 5/- per dozen.
(Carriage Extra on Fishing Tackle.)
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MICK
SIMMONS
LIMITED
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
The Premier Sports House of Australia.
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
articles reprinted from
The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from “The Bulletin” Office
all States.
df
ENTIRELY NEW/
The “TRITON ” Vertical Plunger Pump
SEND
NOW
FOR
A COPY
I OF OUR
NEW
I CATALOG
No. 33.
Those requiring a small, inexpensive, yet powerful
pump will find that the newly-designed “Triton”
measures up to requirements.
It is small— inches high.
Low power required—ih.p. is ample.
500 r.p.m. gives 600 gallons per hour. Can be
operated at a higher or lower speed if desired, the
output varying accordingly.
Fitted for lin. suction and delivery pipes, and can be
supplied for Belt, Chain or Gear Drive.
Altogether the "Triton” is a splendid unit, needing
but little attention and is practically noiseless.
Its low price is also a decided advantage.
Full particulars and prices on request.
51 Bathurst St. - - - - SYDNEY
582 Collins St. - - - MELBOURNE
116 Waymouth St. - - ADELAIDE
532 Murray St. PERTH
Missing Friends.
TJUGHES, CLEMENT, aged about 43
years, son of James Hughes and Mary
Ann Martha Collins, will hear something
to his advantage if he communicates with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113
Queen Street, Melbourne.
KTTZGERALD. —Would anyone having
information concerning PATRICK
FITZGERALD, son of the late Michael and
Margaret (nee O’Sullivan) Fitzgerald, and
brother of the late Maurice Fitzgerald of
Coleraine, Victoria, kindly communicate with
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, 333 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
TIANNIGAN or HOURIGAN.—In the
** Estate of the late Maurice Fitzgerald,
late of Coleraine, Victoria.
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, 333 Collins Street,
Melbourne, desire any of the children of the
late Kate Hannigan or Hourigan to com-
municate with them. Mrs. Hannigan or
Hourigan was the daughter of the late
Michael and Margaret (nee O’Sullivan) Fitz-
gerald and sister of the above Maurice
Fitzgerald.
Missing Friends.
OTEAUSS.—The children of SUSAN
° JANE STEAUSS, formerly Kendall,
who once resided at No. 1 Howard Street,
Holtham, Melbourne, or any person know-
ing their present whereabouts, are requested
to communicate with the DISTEICT
PUBLIC TEUSTEE, Hawera, New Zealand.
ALL AUSTIIALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Keading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
403-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
lINITCn
Ull I I EU
insurance
COMPANYLTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Firelnsuranoeseffectcd on all classes of
— —Bulldogs, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks 011 Wool > Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
A«.t \-se> pCOjCtS
•w
'^*u
V'V'WZ,'
ANP DO/N<a /
THiNC^r/
jv •
IT'S great to picnic in
the country where the
bush is green and the streams
cool, and your worries well!
You haven’t got any! ♦ But have you
ever realised that a faulty tyre has
often marred many a promising motor
outing?® A thin tread a puncture, and no
spare—• or a doubtful one # By the time the
trouble is more or less attended to, it is too late to
go anywhere and everyone is in a bad temper # Don’t
wait to have your worn tyres attended to avail yourself of
ADVANX ROADMASTER TREADS ® They go thousands
of miles to make friends —
ADVANX TY-RE-PAIR CO. LTD.
WILLIAM & RILEY STREETS, (Head Office) SYDNEY
Branches and Service Everywhere
AN AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY THAT LEADS THE WORLD


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Anchises . . 10,000 tons, Dec. 6
*Ascanius . . 10,000 ~ Jan. 10
tThemistocles 11,500 ~ Jan. 31
fNestor . . 14,500 „ Mar. 11
*First class only. fFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
| Agent 3
DRIVE OUT
RHEUMATISM
AND BACKACHE
London Doctor’s Prescription.
Don’t suffer crippling Rheumatic pains or backache
■when you can get instant relief from Dr. Harrison’s
Pills! This remedy ' immediately gets to the root
of the trouble by ridding the system of the cause —-
uric acid. This uric poison is slowlv, day by day,
breaking down your health, causing ageing back,
limb, joint and muscular pains, and very probably
weakening the heart. Harrison’s Pills quickly
and effectively free you from the danger by
dissolving and driving from the system the uric acid
crystals now making comfortable life impossible
for you. Why wait until you become crippled,
mentally and physically? Your very brain refuses
to do its best while you are tortured by the uric
acid fiend. Get genuine relief once and for a 11....
Take Harrison’s Pills to-day and regain your old
sparkle, activity and youth. Harrison’s Pills end
the pain and the cause! Any good chemist or store
can supply Harrison’s Pills in three sizes ; 18 Pills,
2/-; 32 Pills, 3/-; 68 Pills, 5/-; thus providing the
least costly form of proven relief from uric acid,
rheumatic, ” kidney, bladder and genito-urinary pains
and disorders to be had in this country.
Amusements.
f. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN SEASON.
KING’S THEATRE: AUTUMN CROCUS.
BROKEN HILL MINES.
The crosscut at 2150 ft. from the new shaft
in the North Broken Hill mine is now about
50ft. into the lode, in rich ore. This is 300 ft.
below the bottom level hitherto worked, and
looks like doubling the visible ore reserves,
already calculated at several million tons.
This means, of course, that Broken Hill city
will flourish till the young have become old. And
Broken Hill’s celebrated newspaper, “The Barrier
Miner,” looks forward to new generations of
readers.
Queensland’s Great
Morning Newspaper,
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
Is Read By Those Who
Spend Most Freely!
It enjoys marked popularity in city and
country alike —a widespread distribution
that is the desideratum of merchants and
manufacturers whose goods are everywhere
procurable. The “Daily Mail” will get
you results. It is read by all classes and
particularly by young married folks, whose
wants are many and varied. Its favorable
circulation position has been definitely
established. Bates, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
Archbishop Kelly has been celebrating bis
diamond jubilee as a priest, and to the
Pontifical High Mass in St. Mary’s over 4000
of the E.C. faithful came, though it was a
work-day morning. In the sanctuary was a
scene reminiscent of the Eucharistic Con-
gress, for here in richly-glowing vestment
were bishops from Goulburn, Armidale, Bris-
bane (an archbishop be), Lismore and Mait-
land. The Apostolic Delegate brought his air
of dignity, there were papal knights and
monsignori, and the music was inspiring.
Mitterer’s Solemn Mass was sung by a
choir impressive in voice and number, and
Perosi’s Magnificat and Handel’s “Halle-
lujah Chorus” added to the conviction that
all the joys of life are not in being of the
earth earthy. Other items of the celebra-
tions were a reception in the Town Hall, a
luncheon at the chapter house and a concert
in the Conservatorium. Prime Minister
Lyons and Premier Stevens were speaker’s
at the Town Hall.
O that I too might make
One thing, that, for its sake,
Beauty, if but an hour,
Would dwell within and dower—
sings Mary Gilmore in her latest book of
verse, “Under the Wilgas.” And then she
sets about doing it on every page, so that
the mind becomes exhilarated and there’s
no need for Omar’s jug of wine. Jason
might have thought in his Argo some of
the thoughts in “Sailor’s Ear-ring,” but only
Mary Gilmore with her deep love for all
things native to Australia could have writ-
ten the songs of the aborigine with which
the book opens. Mary, intellectually,
reminds one of George Sands, to whom each
year seemed to add a clarity of thought, a
.beauty of expression. Her energy is terrific,
and the number of Australian writers whose
work she finds time to read in manuscript
must be legion.
Frank Brangwyn, R.A., sighs for the wide-'
hipped, deep-bosomed woman to glorify his
murals in the Radio Building in New York.
But the thought of the type he hymns makes
the woman of to-day shudder. Where on
earth would she be able to buy those walk-
in, walk-out dresses which are such a time-
saving answer to the over-full day of the
business and social woman? Victor Mann
remembers that when he was last in England
Brangwyn more than once told him he badly
wanted to visit Australia. Rumors of our
surf sirens had reached him! He had heard
that some of our beach girls tally exactly in
measurements with those of the Venus de
Milo.
There never has been an age when Femin-
ism has been more vaunted ; and still ninety-
nine out of a hundred Feminists strive for
the boyish silhouette. This Letter has yet
to hear of man idealising woman to the
extent of trying to copy her figure. And, say
what you will, the one is as absurd as the
other.
Which serves as an introduction to Ernest
Flowers, the model whom Rayner Hoff has
immortalised in the Anzac Memorial. His
leanness and muscle occur over and over
again in the soldier figures. “Straight as
a lance and lean as a greyhound” is what
the late F. C. Britton called him, a descrip-
tion to bring the moan of envy to many a
fleshy matron dissolving all too slowly in her
Turkish bath. But Ernest will give them
his recipe. He spent 37 years as a bushman
in Tasmania, Queensland and Maoriland. He
was an axeman. He went log-getting, pit-
sawing, mining. Henry Lawson’s son Jim,
who was a student in the Royal Art Society’s
classes where he was a model, thinks him
very like his father. When lie is not posing
for" the classes at the Technical College,
Ernest Flowers is being painted for such
different characters as Kilgour’s “Axeman in
Action” and Gerrould Nathan’s Mephis-
topheles. He can write a story, too; as far
back as 1912 the “Lone Hand” published one
of his yarns. What was it about? Well,
what would a bushman write about but his
dog.
The announcement of the birth of the
Australian Book Publishing Co. is bringing
to light all sorts of treasures that ought
to be safe inside covers, xill Australia
knows “Banjo” Paterson and his Man
from Snowy River. But only a few kiddies
for whom the verses have been written know
that he has stored up scores of whimsical
things about the 1 eddy-bears and the rabbits
and the wombats and the other queer
creatures of the bush. And how many girls
of — we l] s a few years ago ever suspected that
there’s a still-unpublished story carrying on
the delightful “Teens” of their flapper days
that was Louise Mack’s masterpiece V
What a contrast in the making of speeches
were the addresses of George Earp and Mrs.
John D. Moore at the opening of the Women
Painters’ show last week! The lady was all
clear-cut word and sharply-etched thought.
the man, mellow with life, was inclined to
wander along pleasant little by-patlis. As
though one should say “Oh yes, the highroad
is there; but you know that very well, and
here’s a side-track I made for myself.”
The show is in Anthony Horderns’ Gallery,
and its first day was a crowded affair, but
alas! sales have not lived up to the promise
of the bonnets which posed before the pic-
tures that pleasant afternoon. Yet these pic-
tures are modestly priced and the water-
colors particularly are worthy of notice.
Violet Bowring’s “Youth,” a study of a baby
thing with a face as round as an apple under
an old-fashioned blue snood, must, catch the
fancy of every woman who sees it. Laura
Booth takes you through sun and. shower
around old Sydney; Aline Cusacks prim-
roses have all spring in them ; Winifred Betts
paints romance into Bulletin-lane (that was
the first regular home of this paper) ; Mabel
Barling shows her jungle pets in sad mood
and chooses black and white to express it.
Olive Birkenhead, Hetty Dymock, Ethel
Stephens and other friends send out their
annual message of color ; and Mavis Mallm-
son’s “Moogli” is acclaimed a clever bit of
abo.-sculping.
James Edmond, one of the few who are
left of those who worked in Bulletin-lane,
was a very sick man in October; but with
November there came a change for the better,
and it lasts and promises well. .
Artist Flo Lake, whose flower pieces have
been a pleasant occurrence at many an Adel-
aide. and Sydney art exhibition, is going to
London. About two years ago she packed her
brushes and made for Fiji; since then she
has been in New Guinea. It is with Mrs.
J. P. Livingstone and the two children, who
are facing school in England, that Miss Lake
travels. Mr. Livingstone was .to have accom-
panied his wife, but was at the last minute
plucked back to the goldfields.
Seven years ago the Woman’s Letter
recorded that Ruby Lipscombe Taylor—
“Arelti,” of Hobart “News” —was seriously
ill in hospital, adding that it seemed only
too probable that the clever little journalist
would be out of business for a long time.
That was, unfortunately, correct.. For seven
years Mrs. Taylor was a very sick woman.
She gradually lost all ability to walk except
with the aid of a stick; her memory and eye-
sight became so impaired that newspaper
work was impossible. Now, through the magic
of a Macquarie-street doctor, she is walking
normally, her memory is as good as ever, and
she will be able to take up the threads ot
journalism where she had to release them.
Sydney has acquired a marionette theatre,
and the creator of it is Eleonore Lange, the
subject of this
May Moore
picture. Apart
from immor-
tal Punch and
Judy, most of
us know no-
thing of the
creatures of
this friendly,
intimate off-
spring of the
drama, where
the showman
controls hi s
puppets as
completely as
destiny con-
trols humans,
directing every
movement as
he plays upon
the wires, the
nerve - centres
of the papier-
mache bodfes. For nearly a year Miss Lange
has worked on her scheme; now the little
theatre is complete, and 15 marionettes are
all ready to go on tour. For the theatre
is a travelling one. It can be packed, stage
aild all, into a large, flat case and taken
anywhere. Eleonore Lange and friend and
helper Edith Lanser hope to travel Aus-
tralia with it.
Miss Lange’s first play is the story of
Joseph up to the time when he is sold into
Egypt; and into the costumes of the players
she has worked a wealth of detail to illus-
trate the manners of the times. So we have
Judah and another of the brethren of Joseph
with their headgear ornamented with love
tokens, Judah wearing the. necklace which
afterwards was given by him for a pledge
to the woman who sat in the crossroad.
The dress of the patriarch Jacob, the kindly
Reuben and of the women is all significant.
Miss Lange knows the wherefore of every
fold of veil and sleeve, and in her little play
reveals it, so that entertainment and educa-
tion go hand in hand. The backgrounds of
early morning, midday and evening in the
land of Canaan are built of brightly-colored
paper cuts. Joseph himself has three
changes of costume and countenance. First
he is rather shy and dreamy, and his coat
is of powder blue; then he is a youth, hand-
some and a little conceited in his coat of
many colors; last of all, he is the very dis-
consolate Joseph plucked out of the pit and
sold into captivity.
In France and Germany the marionette
play has a regular place in the educational
world, Italy knows it well, and so do India,
China and Java.
The A. E. Graces did not need to go to
the Cup for their excitement last week.
They stayed at home and had a wedding in
the family, the bride being their second
daughter Beryl. And what a wedding it was,
packed from floor to ceiling, so to speak, with
rich clothes! The bride steered a train, yards
in length, to a frock of one of the new
flat crepes in ivory. It had puffed sleeves
as thickly sequinned as a gypsy queen’s,
and over this billowed a mist of tulle equal
to- one of the best efforts of the Megalong
Valley. The white magnolias she carried
seemed to suit her youth. Three ’maids on
waves of blue chiffon over organdie floated
up the aisle after her, their passage marked
by the flash of sequins, the pink tulips in
their hands contrasting with their large
hats of blue straw. The young man for
whom all this was planned was Gordon Iloss,
second son of the Albert Ross couple of
Strathfield. Later at her parents’ Vaucluse
home he and his bride stood beneath an
arch of pink roses and garnered the con-
gratulations of a seemingly never-ending
stream of friends. Mothers of both princi-
pals stood by looking handsome, and a pipe
band skirled joyously.
This Letter has to tell about another
model. His name is Billy Bluegum, and he
is a regular
buck of the
koala world.
(By the way,
why doesn’t
some proliibi-
ti o n society
take, koala as
its name? It
is said to
mean “I never
drink.”) He
Las been sit-
ting for Tlieo
Cowan, wh o
has modelled
him and one
of his sisters
for the embel-
lishment of her
koala pottery,
the results of
which hand-
craft will be
shown to- . , _
morrow for tlic first time at Beaumont
House in Elizabeth-street. Gum-blossom,
gum-nuts and geebungs and a dozen other
shy bushland things lias the clever sculptor
shaped into her clay and burned to a glaze
smooth as a cherry skin. Photo from May
Moore.
Dr. Asmis, the new German Consul-
General, made a moving speech on inter-
national relations at the luncheon tendered
to him on Friday by the citizens of Sydney.
Charlie Lloyd Jones was in the chair, and
he had Chief Secretary Chaffey on his- left
and Lud Mayor Walder on his right Scat-
tered about the big banqueting hall were
some of Sydney’s best-known men. -the
Consul-General is is a tall, spare, sad-look-
ing individual with a melancholy voice and
an astonishing command of the English lan-
guage. His message to Sydney was that the
German rank and file didn’t want the war,
and that, anyhow, the time had now come to
let bygones be bygones, and all get together
for the rehabilitation of the world. It was
a notable effort, and roused the gathering
to great enthusiasm.
The recently-announced engagement of
Dorothy Davies and Seppy Alison didn t
come as a surprise to their Sydney friends.
They met on a Sydney-bound liner a year
ago and have seen a lot of each other since.
She is the daughter of “Lou” Davies, one
of N.S.W.’s richest men. They say Lou
was encumbered with so much hard cash
that he made large settlements on each of
his sons before retiring to his estate m
Jersey. Seppy Alison isn’t exactly hard up
either. As the only son of Mrs. Sydney
Burdekin’s eldest daughter, he inherited a
share of the big family fortune, and his
father, Jim Alison, has made money out of
everything he has touched. _ Jim Alison has
been a member of the Union Club for the
record term of 54 years, a year longer than
the president, Consett Stephen. Seppy is
a member, too, but he only joined after the
war, most of which he spent as a prisoner
in Germany. He was in a Guards regiment.
Sympathy is widespread for Fordyce
Wheeler, of the “Sun,” whose handsome
wife died all too young early this week.
Mrs. Fordyce Wheeler, who was Fanny
Thompson before her marriage, belonged to
a Melbourne family, and was a student at
the Conservatorium under Marshall nail.
Her death plunges into mourning two we 1-
known daughters, Mrs. Bates, of Melbourne,
and Mrs. George Cohen, of Sydney.
An engagement that’s stirring countij
circles is that of Hazel, eldest daughter o
the T. J. Dugans, of Tolleep, Walgett, anc
Bondi, to Wallace, eldest son of Mr. and
Mrs. G. J. Pittman, of Singleton.
The Lyceum Club netted an interesting
guest for lunch last Friday. She was Mrs.
Fellowes-Edwardes, a passenger on the
Ulysses, who is returning after many year's
to look at the country where she was - the
original Josephine in “H.M.S. Pinafore.
This was in the old days of the 'lheatre
Royal in Melbourne, and Australia s loved
Maggie Moore was the Buttercup of the
production. At that time Mrs. lellowes-
Edwardes was Annie Leaf,, who had
come to Australia from Maoriland, where
she had spent her childhood. After her
Melbourne season she toured Queensland,
later came a series of successes m London
and the U.S.A. Another of the Ulysses, pas-
sengers entertained by the club was Mrs. K.
H. Mitcheson, while this Lettter noticed
blonde Barbara Allen, who was a guest or
the Independents at their performance ot
“Mrs. Moonlight.” Barbara is a young
English actress who has met so many -Aus-
tralians in the theatrical world in London
that she is taking this chance to look us
over. On Saturday night she renewed
friendship with Grace Hart, of the Inde-
pendents. who studied at the same drama-
tic school. Naomi Waters, now getting a
foothold in London, learned the way of it
in these classes.
The idea of a sea voyage as a happy
hunting ground for sweet and twenty is
rather knocked on the head by the Ulysses,
which carried among her 120 pleasure
cruisers only ten unattached male pas-
sengers, and some of these were retired
Army and Navy men. There were some
widows, too.
The Anti-T. B. Association is expecting
tremendous uplift from the garden party in
the grounds of Quambi, the Kelso Kings’
Edgeeliff home. This will rage from mid-
morning on the 26th, when Lady Isaacs will
open it. Lady Game will put a fresh bubble
of vice-royalty into the flutter by arriving
at three. There are to be eight stalls and
a tea tent, the last under the care of Mrs.
Harold Wei gall. There will be. ponies and
mules to ride, and a company of monkeys is
busy rehearsing amazing tricks. Burns Philp
have given a return trip to Lord Howe
Island as the prize for a guessing competi-
tion. There’s to" be music by the Police
Band and other joys dear to the hearts of
girls and boys of all ages.
Canberra provided its record wedding
throng for the marriage of Thelma Tickner,
daughter of a well-known F.C.T. family, to
the Rev. E. 1.. Varcoe, who was the capital’s
first Methodist minister. The place was
simply frosted with clerical collars for this
occasion.
From the Sugar State: —
Joe Jones, daughter of the late Captain Mervyn
Jones, sometime skipper of the Merrie England, and
of Mrs. Mervyn Jones (who was pretty Zoe Pollard),
is engaged to H. R. Kent, of Winton. They will be
married on November 15.
At St. Matthew’s R.C. Church, Cooran, Stanley
W. Cook married Edna M. Mills. The bride, who
was given away by her father, was in white French
crepe de Chine and chantilly lace with a Brussels
lace veil. Misses Ailsa Graham and V. Byrne
’maided in blue ; Inez Maher was flower girl, in a
blue period frock; Master P. Dwyer paged in blue,
and the feast was in the Memorial Hall.
At St. Andrew’s, Lutwyche, E. A. Johnstone
wedded Elizabeth Gardiner. Elsie Johnstone
’maided, and Mrs. Neil Cunneen was matron of
honor. The bride was given away by her brother-
ir.-law, Neil Cunneen; she wore ivory satin with
a Brussels lace veil. Pale green was worn by the
’maid, the matron of honor and the flower girl, Miss
R. Gardiner.
Mrs. Payne, who was Beryl Barnes, is going to
be married again—to Alan, son of the late Judge
Mansfield and of Mrs. Mansfield, Ascot.
Mother Mary Ursula, Sister Mary Ita and Sister
Mary Margaret, of All Hallows, having all attained
their golden jubilees, a concert was given in their
honor. Archbishop Duhig attended.
Mrs. W. Young received a presentation on her
retirement from the position of officer in charge of
the Women’s College of Domestic Science. She was
headmistress of the junior section of the old
Normal School before her marriage, and she con-
ducted the Woman’s Page of the Brisbane “Courier.”
A crocodile bag, a set of onyx and crystal beads
and a silver cruet were presented, with a brooch
from members of the Old Girls’ Association. Till
recently Mrs. Young was president of the Queens-
land Press Institute.
The Mayoress opened the annual exhibition of the
Arts and Crafts Association in Exton House. Pot-
tery and leather-work, posies of gum-nuts and deco-
rated wood-work make a brave show; there are
hand-wrought jewellery and a special display of
tooled leather by J. H. Hartt, and of pewter work
by Mrs. Scott Fletcher. Marjorie Wilson has sent
white broideries, and artistic Kate Armstrong wall-
hangings.


?• \..u
■ m
m
\\ .. ' ;
4 tfi
m
p
.
rassS 'V:
-
“It’s Tenax for you, my boy”
After school, when hands are grubby Tenax Soap, with its refreshing,
cleansing, germicidal lather, offers splendid protection from infection of every
kind.
Dangerous germs are so easily picked up during the ordinary contacts of daily
life, and only frequent, careful disinfection of face, hands and body will keep
your children absolutely safe.
Tenax Soap contains “Ti-trol,” a new powerful germicide produced only in
Australia, eleven times as strong as carbolic, but NON-POISONOUS and
NON-IRRITANT. “Ti-trol” is used by the Medical Profession for all
infections, pus and septic conditions, ringworm, finger-nail inflammation due
to infection, etc., cleaning up some cases of twenty years’ standing.
Although invaluable as a germicide, Tenax is a delightful toilet soap. It is
transparent —aromatic and pure, and has no disagreeable odour of disinfectant.
Always keep Tenax Toilet Soap in your bathroom for daily use. Regular
shampooing with Tenax will keep your scalp free from dandruff.
TENAX
The Genuinely Germicidal Toilet Soap
At all Chemists and Stores.
5' .
; a.
*5
o
m
CONTAINING TI-TROL
“Keep the Sunshine in pour hair ”


Missing Friend
CCHUMACHER (Fennell).—Will Walter
Schumacher, last heard of at Kintpo,
communicate at once with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Adelaide, who has important
news for him.
Death
F'ENNELL.— On October 29, 1931, Erwin
pharles Fennell, aged 61.
TORONTO
for a joyous carefree
HOLIDAY
BOATING, Tennis, Swimming,
Fishing and other sports com-
bined with exhilarating walks, gay
with multi-coloured wild flowers in
glorious profusion, make a happy
carefree holiday at Toronto, the
“Killarney of Australia.” Come to
Toronto - the Gem of the Coast - stay
at the Hotel Toronto - your holiday
will he inexpensive, and pleasures
manifold. Leave the cares of the
City behind - grasp a new lease of life
- come next holiday or week-end.
Fish straight from the lake every day.
Fish caught by guests will be cooked
and served at any meal time. Launch
trips arranged. Rowing Boats and
Motor Boats for hire. Picnics
arranged.
Write for booklet or inquire from the
Govt. Tourist Bureau. Sydney
HOTEL
TORONTO
on the Shores of Lake Macquarie
Phone CHARLES BACON
Toronto 3 Proprietor
iHE EXAMINER,
LAUNCESTON.
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
NOW
IN ITS
91st YEAR.
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner ” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Do«g»n,
66 Hunter Street,
Sydney
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
Saturday was chill and dull, and the
attendance at Flemington was a little
smaller than on earlier days of the meeting.
The G.-G. and his lady were there, also
Lieut.-Governor Irvine with his daughters.
The Argyle lady’s black white-spotted silk
suit was worn with silver-fox furs and a small
black hat. Mrs. Richard Linton, who was in
brown georgette and lace, sported a short
fur coat. Mrs. Norton Grimwade, seated in
the G.-G.’s reserve, was cosily wrapped m
kolinsky fur topped by a bottle-green hat.
Captain and Mrs. Iveppel Palmer were on
the lawn, she in magpie raiment. Mrs.
George Flannery, who was with her sister,
Mrs Warwick Armstrong, was a visitor
from Sydney. Mrs. W. H. Merry, whose
ensemble of black cloth was cheered by a
coat sprav of creamy roses, was companioned
by Mrs. G. L. Lukin, a study in navy blue
and white in gown and hat.
Many women took a chance with the
weather on Oaks Day, and organdies, mus-
lins, lace and other gossamery materials
were worn, though the wind proved cold and
there was a sprinkle of rain. Huge hats
and dainty capes protected bare arms. I rocks
of light materials continue long-skirted, but
heavier stuff is worn shorter. There was,
as on the earlier days of the meeting, a
medley of fabrics in the dressing—silks,
cottons, cr§pes and woollens, plain and
figured. Stripes, which earlier held the field,
gave way to plaid effects, and spots _ were
larger, attaining in some cases the size of
florins.
Though there was a welter of color the
smartest effects were achieved by those who
chose the magpie, navy and white contrasts
or the beige shades. White toques were to
be seen everywhere, made of swathed crepe
or fine straw, topping every sort of tailored
costume or frock.
The G.-G. and his lady were there, she in
black satin with a top of white georgette em-
broidered in black, and a wide-brimmed honey-
colored straw hat banded in black velvet.
Among those who lunched at the v.-r. board
were Squadron-Leader and Mrs. H. N.
Wrigley, she in white crepe and a hat with
touches of sapphire blue; Mr. and Mrs.
Norman Brookes; the Hunter Whites, oi
Havilah (N.S.W.), and Minister for the
Interior Perkins and Mrs. Perkins. Lieut.-
Governor Irvine was accompanied by
his daughters, Mrs. James Morrison and
Mrs. lan H'ayward. In his luncheon
party were the Lud Mayor; Mrs. Robert
Ritchie, in wine-red wool georgette with
a matching felt hat; Commander and
Mrs. Loudoun Shand; Mrs. A. V. Kewney
and E. Kewney. Mrs. Alec Russell enter-
tained SO guests at a picnic snack under
the trees. Among those who promenaded
the lawns were Mrs. Len. Buxton, whose
black-and-white georgette, made in pinafore
mode, had short white puff sleeves; Mrs. lan
Pender, in frock and hat of organdie of
lavender shade, with jade-green true lovers
knots and small flowers appliqued at inter-
vals ; Judy Thornley, in pale primrose
organdie; Mrs. W. Mitchell, smart in a
suit of shepherd’s plaid, with facings of
white pique, and Mrs. Fleming Dunstan, in
pin-spotted navy blue and white silk and a
black sailor hat, from which descended long
black streamers. A visitor from Sydney,
Miss C. Lowry, sported a two-piece suit of
Basque pink flamisole topped with a toque
of the same tint. Others in the throng were
Mrs. Sydney Ayres, of Adelaide; George
Fairbairn and his lady; Mrs. Harry Ores-
wiek, all in white, and Mr. and Mrs. Leo
Miller.
After the races, society went to the Aus-
tralian Club, where over cocktails and tea
some 600 of our naicest discussed their adven-
tures on the turf. Whole bowers of roses,
watsonias and azaleas, interspersed with
midget trees, decked lounge, dining-room and
entrance hall. The president, E. R. Russell,
and Mrs. Russell held out the welcoming
hand, while an orchestra played amid the
greenery. Mrs. Russell’s deep-blue crinkled
crepe gown had a collar and revere of white
chiffon and lace and her straw hat matched
her frock. Margaret Russell’s ensemble was
beige and brown.
A feature of the international ball at the
Town Hall sponsored by the League of
Nations Union and kindred bodies was a
pageant of bridal couples of various coun-
tries, with attendants and friends, in
national costume. At the end came a
group centred in a figure in conventional
veil carrying a bouquet of arum lilies, repre-
senting the “Bride of All the World.” Edna
Lowe, fair-haired and willowy, who took
this r6le, was attended by three ’maids in
rainbow hues. Nora Collisson was pro-
ducer of the spectacle, in which the nations
represented were Norway, China, Greece,
Russia, Sweden and Poland. The Greeks,
the menfolk in pleated white kilts and black
Zouave jackets embroidered in gold, later
performed dances of their own country. There
was a delicatessen stall where the dainties
of many lands could be purchased. The
hostesses were the Harrison Moore lady,
Mrs. Herbert Brookes, whose black and
purple brocade coatee topped a mauve satin
gown: Mrs. Harry Emmerton, in black
lace; Mrs. F. W. Eggleston, Mrs. H. W.
Gepp, Mrs. Arthur Hordern and Mrs. E. C.
Kiernan, the last-named in jade-blue lame
bi-ocaded in silver. Hon. secs, were Mrs. M.
R. McMillan. Joyce Norman and Chloe
Harper. Leslie Henderson was hon. organ-
iser.
A charity dance at the Royal Melb.
clubhouse at Cheltenham on Oaks Night
attracted a big crowd. Nan Guthrie, presi-
dent of the associates, was there in a frock
of angel-skin of powder-blue hue; and Mrs.
Ivo Whitton, president of the _ dance com-
mittee, was in ivory-tinted moire brocaded
with red flowers. The hon. secs., Mrs. Keith
Tolhurst, in pale-pink georgette, and Nancy
Syme, whose net frock was buff color, were
assisted by Nancy Walsh, in draperies ol
midnight-blue georgette, Mrs. Austin Gate-
house and Mrs. Gordon Johnstone.
Beverley Jackson, elder daughter of Mrs.
Chai'les S. Cunningham, gave a dance at
the family home, Egelabra, Toorak. Miss
Jackson, whose madonna-blue erfipe do
Chine had a scattering of stars, was
assisted in her duties as hostess by her
fiance, James Watt. Mrs. Cunningham
chose velvet-embossed ivory chiffon. Mar-
jorie Wilson, daughter of the Governor of
Bananaland, was there in pale green with
a velvet coatee of a darker shade. Margaret
Honey, from Sydney, sported pink organdie
with a moss-green sash.
At a dance for young folk organised by
Marion Montgomery and held in St. Kilda
Town Hall, Miss Montgomery, who wore
black lace, had Olga Geddes, in tourmaline-
pink lace, and Nell Reade, in pink taffeta,
to assist her. Mrs. U. J. Nicholas, repre-
senting the Animal Welfare League, reci-
pient of the profits, wore black georgette.
Among the dancers were Patricia Dane, who
contrasted with her black robe jade-green
ear-rings, and Judith Nicholas, in white-
figured chiffon with a girdle of flowers.
A dance at the Embassy, sponsored by the
CAv .A., drew a great crowd. Chief engineer
was Mrs. Bryam Gowan, jun., who danced in
a frock of filmy green lace and chiffon with
tulips trailing over a shoulder. Secretarial
duties were shared by Natalie Wood, in pale
green chiffon, and Marion Ivettlewell, whose
white georgette was traced with silver, and
the purse was held by Gwen Blogg, whose
gown was of primrose hue. Others who
helped with the management were Mrs. J. W.
Pittendrigh, who chose petal-pink satin, and
Mrs. L. Due, in black lace. Among the
patrons were General Chauvel and his lady,
she wearing pink georgette ; Dr, and Mrs.
John Shaw, the Robert Knoxes. Mr. and
Mrs. Richard Lawrance. she charming in
black chiffon; Lynette Dickenson, in leaf-
green chiffon, and Hope Robertson, a visitor
from Perth, who sported white crinkled
crepe.
The Clive Leonards put on a cocktail
party in honor of Mr. and Mrs. H. C.
Osborne, of Colac. A gown of the new duck-
egg tint of chiffon, with insertions of ecru
lace, was worn by the hostess. Among the
guests were R. R. Dangar, owner of the
Cup winner, Peter Pan, and his wife. Mrs.
E. J. Watt and the Pat Osbornes were.other
visitors from over the border who joined
the jollo.
Mr. and Mrs. lan Currie, of Euroa, who
came to town for the races, put on a late
afternoon party at Menzies as finale to the
Oaks. The hostess was in white crinkled
crepe figured in a china blue design, with
a deeper-toned straw hat.
Dickinson-Monteath pictures here Lor-
raine, daugn-
ter of Mr. and
Mrs. Ronald
Gumming of
C a mperdown.
Cumming
was one of the
seven host-
esses of a
recent hig
dance which
i n t. r o d u ccd
Lorraine and
several other
girls of the
Western Dis-
trict to society.
Miss Cum-
ming is a
g r a nd-daugh-
ter of Mrs.
Harry Henty,
of South
Yarra.
The Isaacs lady, accompanied by Mrs.
Harry Emmerton and Miss Graham, was at
the, Royal on Saturday night for “Pinafore.”
Mrs. J. T. Thompson, Mrs. W. T. Crosbie
and the T. Y. Milleas were of those sighted
in the r.s.
The tribute paid to L. A. Adamson, retir-
ing headmaster of Wesley College, Melbourne,
by making him principal guest at the annual
smoke night of the Old Xaverians’ Associ-
ation, held in the Xavier main hall, was
unique in the history of Vic. public schools.
The speeches of Dr. 'A. L. Kenny, see. of
the Aus. Royal Col. of Surgeons, and Con
Ahern, ex-M.H.R., two old Xaverians, in
submitting the toast of Adamson’s health,
stirred the big gathering, and the guest
made it clear that he prized greatly the
compliment paid him.
Well known in musical circles was Mrs.
W. E. Reynolds, of Heidelberg, who died
recently. A daughter of the late James
Bennie, chief inspector of the Bank of Vic-
toria, this sweet singer, whose name on the
concert stage was Eda Bennie, studied in
Paris and came back to Australia as a
member of the Quinlan Opera Co. Later
she was prima donna of the British National
Opera Co. at Covent Garden. It is not long
since she returned from Europe: she was
one of the soloists of the Bach Festival of a
few weeks back.
Dorothy Penfold, of Bendigo, has
returned after an absence from Australia of
two and a half years. While abroad Miss
Penfold, who is a singer, gave several recitals,
including two or three in Sicily and one in
Florence, where she rendered English lyrics.
She sang in oratorio in London under the
baton of David Thomas.
The site on which Adam Linsay Gordon’s
statue has. just been erected in Spring-street,
between Parliament House and the old
Treasury was formerly, occupied by the
E'ght Hours commemorative pillar, which
was shifted to a spot near the Trades Hall.
About a chain further south is the figure
in bronze of that other unforeotten Gordon,
the hero of Kha>rtoum. Behind both statues
in the centre of the pretty triangular re-
serve bounded by Spring-, Gisborne- and
Carpentaria-streets is the bluestone fountain
chiselled by William Stanford. As Furnley
Maurice put it, the contrite sculptor, en-
couraged by Panton, P.M., “dreamed this
thing in stone,” and showed “that a man
may cleanse by the work of his hands the
shame of his one slip down.”
Mrs. J, J. Liston, pictured here by a
Dickinson-Monteatb camera, is wife of the
chairman of the Williamstown Racing Club,
whose great
day is next
Saturday. She
comes of a
w e 1 1-known
W illiamstown
family, and
lost both her
parents in an
accident in the
ba y many
years ago. Her
only brother
is a medico in
W e s t r a lia.
Mrs. Liston is
an active mem-
ber of the St.
Kil d a Aux-
iliary of St.
Vincent's Hos-
pital and is
also a worker
for St. Mary’s
Hall of the
Uni., having been a student at the Uni.
Con. She is on a committee that is
organising a social gathering to raise funds
for a scholarship at St. Mary’s that will
form a memorial to the late J. J. Brenan.
Adelaide doings:—
The English cricketers struck better weather
than the Australian Navy encountered at Adelaide.
The Australian Flying Association gave a dance at
the Maison de Danse, Glenelg, for the officers of the
H.M.A.S. Albatross, but there was such a deluge
that motors had to drive on to the verandah to
unload their passengers. It was a very cheery
party, nevertheless.
Invitations had been issued for a dance on the
Canberra at the Outer Harbor. But wind at 55 miles
an hour tore all the canvas and bunting put up to
enclose the decks, and, as it continued to rage, the
officers were obliged to ’phone all their friends that
the dance was “off.” His Ex. and Lady Hore-
Ruthven, Mrs. Dudley Hayward (whose guest the
Admiral has been during the Fleet’s visit to Adelaide)
and a few friends dined on board, and there were
one or two dinner parties on the other boats, but
it finished at that.
Mr. F. A. Lakeman opened the fete at Bishop’s
Court in aid of the Church of England Boys’ Home,
where there were the usual diversions. Several
pretty girls ran a successful sports section.
Mrs. J. Howard Vaughan, on- behalf of the League
of Nations Union, has issued invitations for an at-
home at the Wentwortli CafS next week to bid Lady
Hore-Ruthven bon voyage. There will be a musical
programme and Dr. Eleanor Allen is to give an
address.
After the civic reception to the English cricketers
ill the Town Hall, the Mayoress gave a morning tea
to the visitors, the wives and daughters of the
Ministers, aldermen and councillors having been
invited to meet them. Mrs. Clover was wearing a
navy ensemble and a black straw liat trimmed
with pink roses.
An American tea was held at the residence of
Dr. and Mrs. D’Arcy Cowan, Kensington Gardens, in
aid of the local branch of the Mothers and Babies’
Health Association. Rain prevented the dancing on
the lawn by Vera Van Riji's small pupils and the
tennis match, but there, were indoor attractions that
brought in a fair harvest. Mesdames D’Arcy Cowan
and Lloyd Dumas were the energetic conveners of
the fete. Lady Hore-Ruthven and Mrs. Lionel Hill
were present.
To be wed at an early date are Marie Clifford,
daughter of Mrs. S. L. Dawkins and the late Lieut. -
Colonel Murray Coghill, and Peter Bernstein, of the
Elder Conservatorium staff. It will be a musical
combination, for both excel upon the violin.
Perth paragraphs:—
Beryl, second daughter of the W. G. Randell
couple, has accepted a, sparklet from Ted, son of
Mr. and Mrs. Williams, of Rosebery, Sydney. Another
recent engagement is that of Clare McLintoek,
whose fianeg is C. H. Briggs, of Ceylon.
The Women’s Committee of the R.S.L. hit upon a
doll show as a means of loading their Christmas-
tree with gifts. Neat fingers can compete for the
best nursery rhyme, soldier, sailor, bridal group
and a score of other sections of the dolly world,
while young brother can win cash prizes with dolls’
furniture. The exhibition takes place early in
December.
The happiest spectators at the cricket on the
final day were those wrapped to the ears in furs.
The Jack Hobbs couple and Mr. and Mrs. Isaachsen
made a foursome during several afternoons,. Mrs.
Hobbs’s favorite rig being a grey tailored suit flecked
with black, a black fox and a cream felt hat. Mrs.
Flemming, Mrs. Doy Forrest, Joan Gawler, Mrs.
Meaebam, Mollie Arundel, Kathleen Castieau, Mrs.
Douglas Moore, Phyllis Robertson, Mrs. Chandler,
Mrs. Brennan and Norma, Betty Blackman and
Mary Forrest were among the spectators.
The Hon. Mrs. Lindsay migrates annually to these
parts, where she has homestead attachments at
Yanchep and Jurien Bay. She is curtailing this
year's sojourn and will be back in the Cold Country
for daughter Joyce’s wedding in December. The
pretty Joyce is marrying a distant kinsman, Martin
Lindsay, of the Royal Scots Fusiliers.
Major and Mrs. Boase—he is of the Staff Corps—
are unpacking their trappings in Melbourne, where
they will live for the next two years.
Owners of old furniture, antique ornaments, half-
forgotten books, yellowing manuscripts and needle-
work which cost great-grandmother her eyesight are
invited to dig up pedigrees for their possessions with
a view to the exhibition of antiques in G.H. ball-
room. J. H. Eales, G. Pitt-Morrison and F. Whit-
well will judge the age and value of the pieces.
The exhibition will last for a week and profits go to
the Free Kindergarten movement. Lecturettes illus-
trated with tableaux will be featured daily.
The Speck’s spoke :
Brenda, only daughter of the J. P. Piggotts.
Sandy Bay, walked down the aisle of St. Stephen’s
as Mrs. Douglas Jones in a picture frock of crisp
white muslin over palest pink, with tight-fitting
bodice and skirt flaring out into a train. The fine
ruching beloved of our grandmothers outlined the
bodice, hip-line and hem; the full tulle veil was
held by the coronet of pearls which the bride wore
at her presentation at Court a few years ago. Gwen
Fitzgerald, the bridegroom’s cousin, was the only
’maid; her frock was pale periwinkle-blue georgette.
After the wedding a party, chiefly a family one,
honored the toasts at Hadley’s.
Back in the - Speck are Mi-s. Henry Foster, of
Campbelltown, and her two girls after a long
jaunt in Europe. Mrs. J. Alexander is another
returned traveller. This lady runs a sheep-farm on
Bruni Island, and is a member of the Woolgrowers'
Defence League. Mrs. R. Moody (Joan Murdoch)
is back from a visit to Rabaul. Mrs. Ross-Rey-
nolds is another Tasmanian home from the Cold
Country, where she stayed with both her married
daughters, Mrs. Vanneck and Mrs. Wordsworth.
There was a very jolly farewell dance in honor
of Peggy Williamson before her flitting to Melbourne.
It was held at the L. Greens’ house in York-street,
Launceston. The hostesses and hosts were Mrs.
Robert Wall, Winsome Warren, Peggy Mclntyre,
Louise Mackinnon, Molly Thyne, Sue Cragg, Dr.
Tim Hogg, Dick Green, Laurie Thyne, Peter Clemons
and W. L. Brown.
The Naval and Military Ball in the Masonic Hall
and the clubhouse was quite a front-row function.
The hall and staircase were arrayed in red, with
green foliage and scarlet Chinese lanterns, and the
ballroom was gay with huge artificial sunflowers
in gay shades and branches of pussy willow. The
president of the N. and M. Club, Col. H. Nairn
Butler, and his wife received the Lieut.-Gov. and
his lady. Mrs. Butler wore black lace and a short
black coat with feather collar, and the Nicholls lady
was in mauve supple satin with beige fur collar.
Naval and military uniforms furnished plenty of
color.
The Repertory Society had to stage its third
performance in the wide spaces of the City Hall,
since our only theatre is still a talkie show-. The
play was VoSper’s thriller, “Murder on the Second
Floor,” and the leads were filled by H. Iv. Nichol-
son, Mrs. Goddard, Mr. and Mrs. Fred Brough, Betty
Ross-Reynolds, Brian Ilodgman and Joyce Foster.
The City Hall offers no facilities for the drama,
and everything had to be built on the spot or trans-
ferred from the old theatre, but the results were
creditable. The Lieut.-Gov. and his lady were
present.


COMMONWEALTH
LOAN
INTEREST: 3| PER CENT.
PRICE OF ISSUE: PAR.
LOAN TO BE REPAID IN 1942.
The Loan is issued by the Commonwealth Government, with
the approval of the Australian Loan Council, on behalf of the
Governments of the Commonwealth and the States. The proceeds
of the Loan will be used for public works for the States and for
redemption of Treasury Bills issued on behalf of the Commonwealth
and the States.
Applications for the Loan may be lodged at any Bank or
Savings Bank, or at any Money Order Post Office, or with any
Member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
Subscriptions may be paid in one amount in full when the
application is lodged, or by a deposit of 10 per cent, with the
application, and the balance in one amount at any time up to
Monday, 16th January, 1933.
Interest at the rate of 3| per cent, per annum will be paid
as from the date of lodgment.
The first interest payable will be paid by means of a Warrant,
which will be forwarded by post to the subscriber, or the amount
will be paid to a Bank in Australia for credit to an account, at the
option of the subscriber; and thereafter all interest due on Bonds
will be paid on production of the relative coupons. All interest
due on Inscribed Stock will be paid by Interest Warrant, which will
be forwarded by post, or the amount will be paid to a Bank in
Australia for credit to an account, at the option of the Stockholder.
Interest Coupons will be payable free of exchange at any Bank
or Savings Bank in the Commonwealth. Interest Warrants will be
payable at the Branch of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia
named in the Warrant, and will be collected free of exchange by
any Bank or Savings Bank in the Commonwealth.
The interest will not be subject to any special tax upon income
from property imposed by any statute (whether corresponding to
Section five of the Income Tax Act 1931 or not), or to income tax
under Commonwealth law to a greater extent that that imposed by
the Income Tax Act 1930 as amended by Section two of the Income
Tax Act (No. 2) 1930; and will not be subject to any income tax
under the law of a State.
The Bonds will be issued for £ 1 0, £5O, £ 1 00, £5 00 and £ 1 000.
Stock will be inscribed for £lOO and multiples of £lO above £lOO.
The issue is an investment authorised by the Trustees Acts of
the several States, and Trustees may invest therein notwithstanding
that the price may at the time of investment be above or below
the redemption value of par.
The Stock and Bonds of this issue will be accepted at par,
with due allowance for interest accrued since the last interest
payment, in payment of Commonwealth Estate Duty.
Applications will be received between Monday, 7th November,
1932, and Monday, sth December, 1932.
Right reserved to the Treasurer to close the Loan at
earlier date.
an
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra, F.C.T.
J. A. LYONS,
Treasurer.
v fcri'A s ' v
Ovitv'
Str
ftus’
*tatt an
COR
PLUS
kW
pu
l»3
The New BLUE Petrol
' C.O.Tt” Plus is tinted
blue to denote the pre-
sence of a special com-
pound of lead which gives
controlled combustion and
freedom from pinking with
to-day’s higher com-
pression ratios. A
minute quantity of
harmless aniline dye
gives “0.0. It” Plus
the blue colour which
Is your guarantee
that you are getting
what you pay for.
IT'S SURPRISING THEM ALL-
THIS NEW BLUE PETROL
It’s surprising, the success of this new blue petrol. Yet not so sur-
prising when you know what a difference that “little extra something”
makes . . when you realise that “C.O.R” Plus brings Australia into line
with the latest overseas developments in motor fuels. In U.S.A.
to-day, coloured “leaded” motor spirits are the most popular petrols.
In Great Britain . . in Canada . . . coloured “leaded” petrols have
revealed to modem motorists the maximum power, performance and
smoothness of which their cars are capable . . .Small wonder, then,
that Australia has accepted “C.O.R” Plus with open arms—and open
petrol tanks.
WHAT ABOUT YOU ? v • Have y° u tfied k y et?
■ nUVU 1 IWU • If you haven’t done so
you’re missing the best that motoring can offer.
OOR'Mtf
PLUS
WHAT?
PLUS A LITTLE SOMETHING
OTHERS HAVENT GOT
• and news for power farmers
COR
I POWE R
ie sM
OC® S$
KEROSENE
... something quite different from ordinary
tractor fuels. .. . Give it a trial this season.
. . . You’ll be amazed at its performance.
WW
C. 45/16/33
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd.),
Poolman St., Port Melb. 117 Pitt St., Sydney. Agents for S. Australia and Queensland : DaLgety & Co. Ltd.
SHADOW SHOWS.
“His Royal Highness,” which started
recently at Hoyt’s de Luxe, Melbourne, is
Efftee Films’ latest. George Wallace is
responsible for the libretto, the music and
nine-tenths of the business, which was so
much to the liking of the audience on the
opening night that a good half of it was
lost in the uproarious laughter, Wallace
portrays a Sydney fishvendor who has stage
aspirations and gets hit on the. head by a
rival stage hand. While in this condition
he dreams that he is mistaken for the heir
to a European principality by a couple of
diplomats who transport him to the royal
palace. Here he suppresses a revolution
and then fades out of the king business in
favor of the real claimant. One reason was
the discovery that his royal birthmark,
which was due to a crate of fish he had been
carrying, had evaporated. The film is as
funny and just as musical as any imported
musical comedy. A defect which prevents
it being a classic of its kind is its lack of
continuity. Wallace was trained in the
slipshod school of vaudeville, where the main
thing is to get laughs and the means whereby
they are got are a secondary consideration.
The cleverest item is where the king plays
poker with his lackeys, who .solemnly rise
and bow whenever they deal him a card.
Under sterner production Wallace would be
a funmaker of international consequence.
# * *
If you want to see how much better an
old talkie can be than one of the latest
models go to “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney,” at
Sydney Plaza. Norma Shearer hasn’t had
such an effective romantic part in any
American drama, nor half so many good
lines in any American comedy, and with it
all the play is a superb gangster. The thrill
of that moment when Mrs. Cheyney sees her
fashionable friends off the premises, sits
down wearily in her drawing-room and is
joined by the criminals who are masquerad-
ing as her servants, is greater than anything
that can be achieved with machine-guns. A
classic example of surprise in drama. Basil
Rathbone, as the barrister who discovers the
theft of the pearls, and George Barraud, as
'Charles, the butler, are admirable. The
sound is so good and the photography so
sophisticated that, if it weren’t for the
women’s dresses, it would be hard to credit
that this picture was made years ago.
In “Caught Short” Marie Dressier and
Polly Moran alternately row and make
friends as neighbors without much money,
as millionaires who have done well on the
stock market, and again as members of
America’s great boarding-house clan after
the collapse of the boom. Marie’s daughter
marries Polly’s son, and the arrival of an
infant gives the grandmothers a fresh sub-
ject to wrangle over. The humor is mostly
based on the mishaps that befall the two
principals, and on their grimacings and pre-
posterous clothes and hats.
# * ¥
Alison Skipworth, “The Sporting Widow,”
at Sydney Regent, is one of those stout old
mimes who can run rings- round most of the
youngsters as regards' acting technique. Her
style resembles Marie: Dressler’s, and she
doesn’t overplay so much.' In this show she
is a female confidence trickster. An early
shot shows her leaving prison like a peeress
starting for a round of visits in Scotland.
After fleecing the gaol governor and taking
down some people she had victimised before
going to gaol, she descends on her husband,
whom she hasn’t seen for 20 years, and
poses before her daughters as a travelling
aristocrat. One of the girls is in the meshes
of a crook. Alison upsets his plans, though
to do so involves going to gaol with him, and
retires in an odor of sanctity, relatively
speaking. Richard Bennett is the husband,
George Raft is the crook and Eveyln Knapp
and Gertrude Messenger are the girls.
“Forgotten Commandments” is an expres-
sion of Hollywood’s indignation at the loose-
ness of Soviet Russia’s marriage laws. Two
young Russian students (Gene Raymond and
Marguerite Churchill) are bourgeois enough
to marry, much to the disgust of their prole-
tarian comrades. Gene is lured away from
his bride, who secretly believes in the Bible,
by a Bolshevik siren (Sari Maritza). But
Sari is the mistress of a jealous professor
(Irving Pichel), who is so revolted at her
conduct that he shoots her. So the sanctity
of the marriage tie and Christian ethics are
vindicated in the end. The photography is
conspicuously good.
“Sky Devils,” at Sydney State, lias a
trio of hard-cussing, hard-hitting, hard-
swanking A.E.F. braves—namely, reckless
Spencer Tracy, aggressive William Boyd and
comic George Cooper, At the war they bait
their superior officers, get into trouble with
the military police, booze in estaminets,
fight over incredibly lovely French girls, and
in general behave as American expedi-
tionaries have been doing on the films for
many years past. The ’plane stunting is
even more exciting than usual.
“The Indiscretions of Eve” is as stereo-
typed in its English musical comedy way as
the other picture is in its way. Fred Conyng-
ham is a cheery, good-looking young earl
who spends a lot of time revelling in a
West End cabaret. There he runs across the
only girl in the world for him, Steffi Duna.
But she is with her jealous employer, who
conducts a wax-model factory, and he whisks
her off before Mr. Conyngham can get her
’phone number. Obviously the only thing
to do is to conduct inquiries throughout the
wax-model industry. After many hilarious
adventures, he runs the maiden to earth and
marries her. Snappy songs, lively dancing
and some fairly clever quips are features of
the film.
* ¥ *
Drama, mystery and suspense permeate
“The Last Man” at Sydney Haymarket.
Charles Bickford, Alec B. Francis and Con-
stance Cummings are the stars. A derelict
steamer is encountered containing an aged
loony, a younger man who has been sorely
wounded, a girl in a faint, and a crew of
eighteen—-all dead and neatly stacked along
a coaming. The young man tells what
happened and the producer re-enacts his
story on the screen. The setting is the
cabaret of “English Charlie” at Suez, and
the tale one of police service, blackmail,
ships scuttled for insurance, and the lure
of gold..
“Anybody’s Blonde” repeats one of the
seven original Hollywood film-plots, with
wise-cracks from the original film-primer.
An honest boxer who won’t come across is
put on the spot. His pretty sister, a
beauty-secrets expert on a daily paper, begs
her editor to assign her the duty of dis-
covering her brother’s killer. She vamps
the guilty gang-magnate, and is discarded
by; her lover, while the victim of her wiles
is put away by his discarded dame. Even-
tually the funny man explains things, and
the final shot shows the gangster being led
away by the bulls and the lovers making
it up, wliat time the funny man and his
friend the star reporter look on with approv-
ing smiles.
* * *
“The Last Coupon,” at Sydney Lyceum,
has Leslie Fuller as a Lancashire wage-
plug who puts in his spare time going in
for football competitions. Relieving he has
won £20,000 (actually, though he made an
accurate forecast of the games, he forgot
to forward his entry), he and his family
live on the fat of the land, and blunder
into elevated social circles with embarrass-
ing results. The well-nourished Fuller
is extremely funny as the homely Bill
Carter, and so is Mary Jerrold as his wife.
“Fire Guardians” would have been more
acceptable if Frank Hurley had omitted to
attach a banal little story to his picture
of the activities of Sydney’s fire-fighters.
The shots of the fireman in the bosom of
his devoted family are very painful. He
is much more likeable and convincing when
on the job battling with the flames.


One Punch Palsy
By Montague Grover
Synopsis : Patsy Quirk, Illawarra
miner and amateur middleweight
champion, turns professional. Stan
Carlisle, an _ artist friend, shows Patsy
and his trainer, Buff Cody, a drawing,
“tThe Atcakening of Titania.” Buff
pronounces ' it “’ot stuff”; Patsy,
acknowledging its beauty, thinks it too
daring. He asks Phyllis Deane, an
attractive commercial artist, to come
for an outing. She declines, telling
him she is sitting for Stan's “Titania”
picture. Patsy is shocked, and she
pronounces him a wowser. He buys the
drawing and presents it to Stan. Des
Quirk gets five years for attempted
murder during a coal strike. Patsy
fights grimly to raise money to free
his brother. But Dcs is quite re-
signed. Patsy is imposed upon by an
adventuress, but by following Buff's
advice he is rid of her. De Vernay,
the Stadium’s press agent, tries to end
Phyllis’s estrangement with Patsy;
but it is Stan who brings them to-
gether again. On his advice Phyllis
takes some ad.-designs to Gaffney, Aus-
tralian sub-manager of the Toms Adver-
tising Agency. Buying a bundle, to her
astonished delight, he sends proofs of
them to head office in Los Angeles.
Patsy has three more easy wins over
imported men; and then Phyllis re-
ceives an invitation to join the head-
office staff of the Toms Advertising
Agency. She accepts, and crosses
the Pacific to California. Mrs. Gaff-
ney meets her, and they become great
friends. Phyllis is still with Mrs.
Gaffney when they read a cable that
Patsy has defeated the American
middleweight champion. Phyllis cables
congratulations. Patsy next turns Ms
attention to the heavyweight cham-
pionship of Australia, and, having won
it, accepts an offer to tour America.
Then he remembers Phyllis.
Chapter XXX.
Al DMITTING that I have met several
f-\ charming Americans in my time, I’m
inclined to believe that the inclusion
of America in the solar system was a cosmic
error. Don’t you agree with me, Mr. Cody?”
asked De Vernay.
“They’s prob’ly somethin’ in what you
say,” replied Buff, guardedly.
“Had it remained peopled by Indians and
buffaloes, as Providence plainly intended,
no harm would have been done. The whole
trouble is due to Columbus—the greatest
enemy to the human race.”
The Ventura had just cast off and was
heading down the Harbor. They were in
their cabin fixing it up for the voyage, and
De Vernay, scanning the passenger list, had
worked out a horrible arithmetical result—
the vast majority of the ship’s company was
American.
De Vernay sighed. He went out into the
alley-way and noted a pair of legs descend-
ing the companion. They were a nice pair
of legs, but De Vernay’s enthusiasm waned
when he noted that the stockings terminated
in two neat rolls—the sure mark that the
owner was a member of the hated race.
Then something hit De Vernay on the
solar plexus. It was the figure, and lastly
the face, of Edna Kelogg, daughter of Cyrus
P. Kelogg, of Kelogg’s Steel Cabinets Inc.,
whose portrait had adorned many a Sunday
issue in both the social and the sporting
sections, for Edna had not so long back
been a big noise in the social whirl of Oak-
land, Ca., in the fraternities of. Berkeley
College and in the tennis tournaments
around the Golden Gate.
Edna smiled on De Vernay and he forgot
the determination of two minutes previ-
ously that he would keep to himself and
let the Yankee vulgarians go their way.
Washington was forgiven; the shame of
Cornwallis’s surrender never crossed his
mind. He wanted to take Edna in his
arms and kiss her; his feelings were what
he would have described in anybody else
as those of a pot-boy.
“It’s great to get back home,” remarked
Edna. “But I sure enjoyed my stay in
that little country of yours.”
“It doesn’t happen to be mine,” replied
De Vernay. “Though I agree with you, as
to its possibilities for enjoyment.”
“No,” she remarked, “I hear from your
speech you’re not Australian.- English,
aren’t you?”
“Yes—or ought I ’say ‘sure,’ now that
we’re on an American ship? But I happen
to have been living over there for six years,
so I’m fairly acclimatised. They still call
me a pom because I haven’t been able to
speak their language, but I’m with them
all the same.”
She reminded him strongly of his sister,
Lady Bayswater, save that Lettice would
never have thought of addressing a man on
the first—or, for that matter, the fiftieth—
day of a voyage. Nor would Lettice have
adopted the easy manner of this girl to
anybodj'- but an intimate. Nor would
Lettice have told a stranger unasked her
name, address and other particulars, as
Edna did within the next five minutes.
Nor would Lettice have rolled her stockings
unless a decree to that effect had gone forth
from the mysterious feminine G.H.Q. which
ordains such things. There were things
which were done and things which were
not done, and Lettice would sooner have
gone to the stake than been guilty of one
of the latter. But the women were much
alike in looks and bearing and manner.
As they strolled along the deck, the
differences between Lettice De Vernay and
Edna Kelogg became more marked. The
deck-steward was getting out his tackle.
Edna stared at him for a moment. Then
she gave a little cry of delight.
“My, it’s Joe! Joe! Joe!”
The deck-steward looked up, recognised
the girl and straightened himself. He
advanced with open hand.
“Why, Edna! It sure does me good to
see you here,” he announced.
Edna was not in the least embarrassed by
not knowing De Vernay’s name. “Here,
fellow-passenger—l don’t know your name
as yet—meet Mr. Griffiths, one of my best
boy-friends. It’s a bit of luck to have an
old friend with us for the trip.”
“It sure is,” replied the deck-steward.
“My last trip, too. Berkeley vacation’s
over thi’ee days after we land.”
De Vernay’s mystification at the inti-
macy of this daughter of the upper classes
—for she was undoubtedly . that—with a
steward on a liner was dispelled when they
resumed their walk. Griffiths, she explained,
was a fellow-student at Berkeley Univer-
sity; he had partnered her in the mixed
doubles at tennis (the famous team which
had beaten all the other universities from
San Diego to Seattle); he was in his third
year in electrical engineering, and, like
ninety per cent, of the men and women at
Berkeley, was working his way through.
During the time the lectures were delivered
he was studying at the University ; during
the vacations he was making a living as: a
waiter in the Grand Canyon, as a sales-
man of washing machines, as a raisin-packer
at Fresno, and now, as a steward on a
steamer on the Australian run.
De Vernay tried to picture what Lettice
would have done had she encountered one
of her men-friends—say Reggie Bouldell—
acting as steward on a ship where she was a
passenger. Had she even been so impulsive
as to recognise him, Reggie would have been
too much a gentleman to take advantage
of her slip. He would have risen to atten-
tion and replied “Yes, my lady.” He could
imagine how Lettice would have sought her
cabin and wept—literally wept—over seeing
Reggie in such a position; how she would
have sought him out in some dark alley-
way and told him her sorrow over his down-
fall; how throughout the voyage she and
Reggie would have kept up the fiction of
passenger and steward like a couple of
first-class actors.
It did not take long for Edna to see,
through De Vernay’s courteous personal
respect, that he loathed her country and
her countrymen. But through that acquired
varnish she saw a man, straight, honest,
scrupulously fair and ready to admit his
errors the moment he realised them.
“I guess you didn’t love the Australians
much when you got there first,” she
hazarded.
De Vernay was surprised. “Well,” he
admitted, “I must say there were a lot of
things that struck me as rather peculiar.”
“Not only peculiar. You didn’t like
them. Own up.”
“No, I didn’t. I admit they got on my
nerves with their voices and their tactless-
ness and their way of scoffing at things I’d
always revered. Then their language was
awful. One doesn’t expect a man to be a
saint, but one doesn’t expect a general to
swear the same way a private does.”
“Yet you got to like them?”
“I did.”
“Well,” she announced, “I guess you’re
going to like us some day. I’m going to
turn you into a hundred per cent. American
before I’ve done with you, and if I don’t
have you taking out papers of naturalisation
as an American citizen I guess I’ve lost my
punch.”
Chapter . XXXI.
The first-class passengers of the Ventura
who had at first looked somewhat askance
at the prospect of travelling with a pugilist
and two of his associates recast their views
almost as soon as the sea-sickness had worn
off. De Vernay—sponsored by Edna—be-
came an intimate of the Americans. The
Australians and English held off longer, for
De Vernay naturally omitted to mention
any particulars regarding himself beyond
his connection with the Stadium. To have
indicated that he was a' blood-relation of
the Earl of Hampshire would have been in
the worst of taste. It was one of the things
that are not done; though had he com-
mitted this social crime, the freedom of the
saloon would have been extended to the
criminal.
Patsy quickly became popular among
all. Edna was rather surprised to find him
an unspoiled boy, and treated him like a
mother. Several of the older women put
their heads together and discussed him with
wonderment; they had anticipated that a
champion pugilist must of necessity brawl,
get drunk and use bad language on every
occasion. One simple old soul confided her
surprise to Patsy.
“Well, you see it’s this way,” he ex-
plained. “Much as I’d like to get drunk,
Buff Cody won’t allow it, for it interferes
with my training, and I wouldn’t be able
to smash the other fellows about half as
much if my vitality happened to be broken
down with alcohol. As for the bad language,
that’s been stopped for years now among
the fighters. Down at the Stadium they
won't even let a man say ‘Bother it!’ He’s
fined immediately.”
“Dear me!”.said the elderly dame. “I’d
no idea it was as strict as that.”
“It’s worse. One day I took down the
superintendent of our Sunday School and
he made use of that most offensive expres-
sion ‘Hell!’ The Stadium people disquali-
fied him for life, and I got into terrible hot
water for bringing down a man like that.”
“I’m very pleased to hear it, Mr. Quirk,”
she commented. “That removes much of
the objection I had to boxing. I thought
it was a brutal and demoralising sport.”
“Not at all, Madam, as it’s conducted
to-day. Then there’s the brawling. If
had always been the dream of my life to
brawl, but when I started boxing I had to
put it aside. It must be delightful to stroll
into a crowd and- punch innocent people
whb can’t hit you back, but don’t you see
I’d be giving away my stock in trade?
People pay real money to see me punch
somebody; if I let them see it for nothing,
who’d go to the Stadium?”
“Of course,” she murmured sympathetic-
ally. “I see that now, but until you were
kind enough to explain, I didn’t properly
understand.”
“A most charming and obliging young
fellow, that Mr. Quirk,” she mentioned later
to an acquaintance.
“Patsy, you ought to be disqualified for
life for. pulling that old dear’s leg,” whis-
pered Edna into his ear. Edna had been
behind him and had heal’d every word.
But it was Buff Cody who made the hit
of the ship. Buff in a white shirt and a
dinner jacket looked a genuine aristocrat.
At least, he looked a replica of one of the
Australian Governors about whose lineage
there was no doubt. Buff missed fire only
.with the girls. He was too respectful, and
his habit of calling them all “Miss” grated
on them. But the nobility of his sentiments
and his unswerving loyalty to his associates
endeared him to the older women without
exception. His lapses of grammar and
diction they rejoiced to overlook, convinced
that here at last was one of Nature’s noble-
men. From old Darby, chairman of the
Australian Bank, to his grandson, aged
twelve, every male on the ship looked for-
ward to Buff’s lectures in the smoking-room.
Night after night he had gathered around
him an audience listening to his stories of
the men he had trained, the men who had
fought them and the men and women with
whom he had lived and had his being in his
youth in the ’Loo. None of those stories
were intended to be humorous; many of
them were, and the roars of laughter which
hailed some of his climaxes puzzled Buff,
though they did not offend him.
“A decent bloke he is,” Buff would com-
ment of the hero of one of his many anec-
dotes. “Poor cow, he’s doing ten years in
Parramatta for blowin’ a safe.”
Buff had not forgotten his duties as
trainer in these incursions into society.
Patsy was kept well up to the mark. The
crew provided some fair sparring partners,
Joe Griffiths in particular, and every after-
noon crowds of passengers turned up to see
the boxing. Patsy did a lot of quiet exer-
cising in the gymnasium and found that
Edna Kelogg was an expert at the punch-
ing ball. “Put on the gloves, Patsy; I’ll
take you on,” she cried.
De Vernay looked serious. He didn’t like
the idea of this girl sparring. “You might
get hurt,” he suggested.
“Not a bit of it!” she replied. “Do you
think I’m going to miss the chance of a
scrap with the middleweight champion of
Australia. Not on your life!”
She rushed Patsy, landed on his jaw and
went into a clinch.
“That’ll do for to-day,” said De Vernay.
In reality De Vernay had ' a rooted objec-
tion to* the girl’s fooling with the gloves.
He knew perfectly well that Patsy would
not hit her hard enough for her to feel, nor
permit her to be hit by accident. What
he did not like was seeing Patsy and Edna
in clinches.
“It won’t. do for to-day. You’re a bad
guesser,” retorted Edna and punched De
Vernay on the nose. The hit may have
been a trifle harder than the playful tap
she intended. “That’s what George Wash-
ington gave your King George,” she
laughed. But De Vernay felt his nose tingle.
He dashed at Miss Kelogg, clinched with
her, felt her soft warm form struggling
in his arms, and looked into, her laughing
eyes. There was only one thing to do and
De Vernay did it'. He kissed Edna.
She broke from him still laughing.
“Well,” she commented, “if that’s cold-
blooded British reserve I guess you people
have nothing on all the sheiks of Araby.”
De Vernay felt that he had made a fool
of himself. That evening he apologised.
Later that evening he was piling up material
for many more apologies. Before the boat
left Honolulu they were together every
evening on deck-chairs. Before they reached
the Golden Gate they were snuggled to-
gether every evening under one rug on the
boat deck and were both so much in love
that they didn’t care what anyone thought,
what anyone saw.
“Edna,” he said, “you and I don’t know
a single thing about each other except that
we love each other. We’re both taking
terrible chances; but I’m ready. Are you?”
“Sure, Cyril,” she answered.
“I think I can satisfy your father I’m
quite a respectable person when I meet
him,” he added.
“And I fancy I can prove my credentials
to you, unless”—she looked at him cheekily
—“some of the boys at Berkeley put me
away.”
“I’ll take a chance on that,” replied De
Vernay.
The usual San Francisco fog was absent
when they swung round into the Golden
Gate, with Edna beside them pointing out
the landmarks.
“There’s the Cliff House and Seal Rocks
—just in front of Golden Gate Park. That’s
Mount Tamalpais on the left and the
Presidio right in front. In a minute you’ll
be able to see Oakland, where I live. That’s
the Sausolito ferry ahead and Angel Island
and Alcatraz.”
They threaded their way through the
ferries and the bigger shipping and the
fishing boats, and she pointed' out Russian
Hill and Telegraph Hill, and where the old
Barbaiy Coast used to be, until at last they
slid into a pier and were tied up.
A big man and half a dozen women came
up the gangway. The man was clean shaven
and wore a straw hat and no vest.
“Pop! Pop!” yelled Edna. “Mum!
Mum!” She embraced everybody and for
five minutes questions and answers were
bandied back and forth. At last the hysteria
subsided. “Pop,” she said, “meet Mr. De
Vernay. This is the gentleman I’m going
to marry.”
“The hell you are!” cried Kelogg. He
looked at De Vernay, found him present-
able, and added, taking the Englishman by
the hand, “we’ll have a few talks about
this proposition. My daughter’s too fast a
worker for my liking.”
They made a date for De Vernay to visit
their home in Oakland, bade the ship and
its company good-bye, and, stepping into
their Cadillac, slowly wound their way
through the traffic on the Embarcadero to
the Ferry Building. De Vernay watched
the car till it was out of sight.
“Well, do you still hate these Yanks?”
inquired Patsy at his elbow.
“I’ll punch your jaw—after I’ve taken a
correspondence course,” retorted De Vernay.
“But I’m frightened I’m going to hate the
old man. He looked hostile to me.”
“Don’t you worry, Mr. De Vernay.’
advised Buff Cody. “That girl’s got the
Indian sign on him. I’ve studied ’em from
the corner fur twenty years, an’ I can pick
th’ losers every time. He’s goin’ inter th’
fight with ’is tail down. That there young
lady’s outed ’im too many times; ’e ain’t
got a dawg’s ’ope.”
It wms an hour before they left the
vessel. The reporters were waiting to cross-
examine Patsy and pocket the dope that
De Vernay had prepared; the radio man
had got the mike ready for Patsy to say a
few words to the people of the United States
regarding his forthcoming match and his
ambition to become the champion of the
world ; a score of men with cigars and men
with cauliflower ears had to be introduced
and placated with courteous platitudes.
Patsy’s advent to America was completely
satisfactory from the viewpoint of the
publicity man. De Vernay stood back and
smiled with the gratification of the Master
seeing good work well done. A charming
young w’oman who announced herself as a
reporter —one of the male reporters assured
him later that she was a sob-sister, what-
ever that was—spoke at length to him while
the radio man and the photographers and
the movie men were busy. It struck him as
strange that she questioned him more about
himself than about Patsy. Her conversa-
tion further contained many references to
Edna Kelogg, with whom, it appeared, the
reporter had been a fellow-student at
Berkeley.
There was a luncheon at the Palace Hotel,
where the party were putting up, and it was
half-way through the afternoon before they
were able to break away from the hospi-
tality which deluged them and get into their
rooms.
“We ought to have got a real boom over
this arrival,” chuckled De Vernay. He
reached for the evening papers which the
bell-hop had brought. Spreading the first


a
mm
m
m
i
i
1
1
is&a
isr
SPA
V
HAR.DT'S
SPA R ICLISVG
f
AUSTERITY OF THE AGES IN
The fame of Stuart Crystal has
been passed down through the
ages, gaining all through the
years fresh glory and power. From
generation to generation, father
teaching son, the tradition has
been carried on, every craftsman
etching the name Stuart on every
piece. Wherever beautiful glass is
sold an exquisite example of this
beautiful crystal may be purchased
for no more than a few shillings.
GLITTERING
CRYSTAL . . .
m
m
m
/k
%m&W>*
/ggg
■Wfc
ft*
:..- y X; V
TC3
ii
c?**
**
ffi
t -• •: • -
Be sure to look for the registered name ** Stuart” on every
piece you buy.
on the bed he felt as if he had been struck
by one of Patsy’s knock-out blows.
“My God, it’s an outrage, a bally out-
rage!” he cried.
“What’s biting you?” demanded Patsy.
“Let’s get out of this blasted country as
quick as we can. Oh, my God!” wailed
De Vernay.
Patsy picked up the paper. A streamer
ran across the top of the page:
“BRITISH PUG-HANDLER WINS HEART OF
EDNA KELOGG ’MIDST PACIFIC PALMS.”
Below the streamer was a portrait of
Edna in abbreviated costume as captain
of the Berkeley Basket Ball team, a port-
rait of De Vernay supplied by himself as
part of the publicity matter, and a photo, of
Edna, himself and the Kelogg parents taken
as they stood on the deck of the Ventura.
The whole of the photographic blocks were
grouped in a drawn border of lovers knots
and cupids with prognathous jaws and thick
ears.
A column of matter followed, setting
forth, in ultra-sentimental style how he had
won the heart of Edna beneath the waving
palms of Waikiki beach, with the soft tropic
breezes stirring and the strains of distant
ukuleles floating in the air. Details of
Edna’s athletic and scholastic record fol-
lowed and intimate details of old Kelogg’s
rise from lowly clerkdom to the presidency
of the greatest concern of its sort on the
Pacific slope.
Buff Cody came in and looked at the
story with wide eyes. “Cripes!” he com-
mented, “that’s great, isn’t it? That’s a
bonzer picture of Miss Kelogg.
“It’s a damned scandal, that’s what it is,”
cried De Vernay. “What sort of people
are these, anyhow, to stand this sort of
thing? My God!”
The later editions didn’t serve to mollify
him. There were additions to the original
story, one headed “No Fight, Says Pop
Kelogg,” stating that the head of the Kelogg
millions refused to stand for his daughter’s
marriage with De Vernay, and a still later
edition added Edna’s assertion that she
would stick to the man she loved better
than life if she had to earn her living in
the box-office of boxing arenas. This item
was headed “Edna Still In The Ring.”
When the reporters from the morning
papers called to see De Vernay for further
particulars of the romance, he used bad
language and slammed the door. The bad
language was fully reported.
“No wonder people get shot here.” he
remarked over the breakfast table to Patsy
and Buff. “The whole damned lot ought to
be shot.”
“The whole lot?” smiled Patsy.
De Vernay couldn’t help smiling himself.
“Well, all except Edna,” he corrected.
Poor De Vernay passed a broken night,
between wakefulness and nightmares of
Hells peopled by Americans, and after
breakfast, when he walked down Market-
street he found on every hand evidences of
the turpitude of the race. The armored
cars used by the banks showed lawlessness,
the women on the sidewalk in hiking cos-
tume shamelessness, the corduroy trousers
and lumber jackets of the college boys innate
inability to do the right thing, the color
and vastness of the architecture unspeakable
vulgarity.
He returned to the hotel to open a
telegram from Phyllis: “Congratulations
to you both. Hope to meet Edna know
111 love her Phyllis los angeles.”
He was delighted to hear from Phyllis,
and wondered how she had contrived to
hang out for nine months among these
detestable people. Then he suddenly remem-
bered that she must have learned of the
engagement through the press. So the story
had been broadcast throughout the United
States.
Worse was to come. A former Londoner
and once of Balliol College, Oxford, was
among the detestable brutes who served in
the newspaper which had told the story of
De Vernay’s love. He wondered whether
it was the Same Cyril de Vernay. He
satisfied himself that it was. He got the
Atlantic cables moving, and De Vernay’s
hair nearly stood on end when he received
another wire from “the governor” dated
from De Vernay Towers, Hants, and
running: “Trust no truth improbable story
your engagement American woman.”
In his mind’s eye De Vernay saw Picca-
dilly ringing with the news, saw a • trans-
mogrified “Morning Post” with its front
page blazoned with the same streamer he
had read the previous evening.
Later came cabled the story of De
Vernay’s career as a big-game hunter and
the story of his Norman blood and his
noble connections, dug out by the London
correspondents. This was illustrated with
a photograph of De Vernay Towers, with
a drawn spook of Stephen de Vernay in a
tin hat and a chain coat surveying his
descendant in control of a line of pugilists.
That was all. The press paid no further
attention to De Vernay. He was a worked-
out field; and when a gang of four lads
with automatics held up the First National
Bank of Salinas, he was pushed right out
of the news. De Vernay felt truly grateful
o those gangsters.
A camp had been arranged for them at
Rio Nido, on Russian River, and they left
three days after their arrival and the morn-
ing following De Vernay’s visit to the
Ke ogg mansion in Oakland. Old-man
Kelogg had been somewhat reassured by
the publicity. After all, De Vernay seemed
to be the goods. He was decently educated,
the London story of his row with his father
regarding the big-game episode showed that
he was no snob and, further, that he pos-
sessed a sense of humor which Cyrus had
hitherto denied to Englishmen. There was
nothing discreditable about his past in
Europe or it would have been surely raked
out, and he was now earning a decent live-
lihood. Moreover, Kelogg prided himself
on being a shrewd judge of character; he
boasted that not a man in his works was
engaged except by himself and that he had
never fired an employee. He liked De
Vernay, and that counted more than all the
credentials and all the coronets, though
even if you are not a snob it is not un-
pleasant to have a daughter married into
a noble family, to a descendant of one of
the Conquistadors.
So De Vernay was accepted, a fact which
was chronicled in the local press under the
caption “Pop Kelogg Quits in One Round,”
and he spent a delightful evening among
the Keloggs and their relations and friends,
Joe Griffiths, now in orthodox dinner jacket,
being among those present. He left with
Patsy and Buff the following morning feel-
ing that all was well with the world. They
rode to the Sausolito ferry, crossed the
Golden Gate and swept round the coast of
the bay. San Quentin prison was of special
interest to Buff Cody, for one of his
acquaintances, he explained, was doing a
five-years’ sentence there. Northward they
spun through Santa Rosa and Petaluma,
until they slowed to enter the village of
Rio Nido itself, its name labelled across a
gateway that all driving on the main road
might see.
It was their first introduction to those
quaint tourist villages scattered over the
length and breadth of the United States,
and they spent an hour after their arrival
inspecting the dance hall, and the movie
theatre, and the hotel, and the bowling
alley, and the burro stables, and the cafe-
teria and market. Their own cottage was
away from the village, behind the hundred
or so of tents erected or struck as the
tourists came or went. There was a gym-
nasium close at hand, with punching-ball
and other appurtenances of the ring, and in
the cottage awaiting them were the sparring
partners who had been chosen by the
Stadium’s agents—two lads who were
American editions of Joe Tolani in appear-
ance.
{To be continued, next week.)
Afterwards.
The cold wind creeps across the plain
With frozen fingers for your rest,
You who so warm and safe have lain
Close clasped against my naked breast.
They clamped you down in earth and wood,
And none among them understood
How all my blood cried to your sleep!
How I would fling myself upon
Your body, lying cold aud deep,
Where that clamped wood and silver
shone,
To warm your coldness with my tears!
But now I call. .. .and no one hears.
The sparse grey gum-trees shiver in
That creeping wind; the starlit creek
Is black with winter; far and thin
The plaint of lonely lambs and weak.
And if you answered from the sod
No one could hear your voice but God !
You did not crave for Cross nor Book,
You did not want that carven chest,
Nor brown hands folded, where there shook
A fierce, heart in a passionate breast.
Though cold and straiked and prisoned there
I see you quick—with tumbled hair!
Your young flushed face, your laughing lips,
Your greedy arms, your ardent eyes!
No knight with folded fingertips
Transported into Paradise,
No paragon, his saintship proved,
But just a man a woman loved !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
For Awhile.
Oh, much did I see as I wandered to-day
Away and away from the town,
O'er highland and lowland, through mosses
and flowers,
And bracken, green-fronded and brown.
I saw, and the sight of it gladdened my eyes,
And set me to whistle and sing,
A light on green grass and a light on green
leaves,
And a light on a parrot’s green wing.
As tossing their tops at the will of the wind,
Tree nodded and whispered to tree,
Around and about, and anigh and afar,
This, exulting and charmed, did I see.
This, too, did I see in the full of the moon
As on, and still onward, I pressed,
The red, the rich red, of a tall waratah,
And the red of a red robin’s breast.
Then, when I bethought me, while birds filled
the hour—
Noon’s hour —with their rapturous notes,
Of roses and sunsets and wine, cellared long,
And of rubies that circled white throats.
Anon, and still questing, this also I saw—
Birds singing now low and now loud.
The blue of a dragon-fly poised o’er a pool,
And the blue of a sky without cloud.
Thoughts came to me then, as the sun,
middle-skied,
Gold-glamored far hollow and rise,
Of seas and lit lakes in the calm of the
morn,
And the shadowless depths of young eyes.
Oh, pleasant it was thus, with beautv at
hand
In forested alley and aisle.
Afar from the town with its smoke and its
dust,
To be wandering lone for awhile.
N.S.W.
RODRIC QUINN.


BRITAIN —MaKe Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman”—BJ hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
r* rV '*^
At Banff you golf, swim, climb, ride
the circle trails and enjoy many
social attractions. All arrangements
made before leaving Australia.
BANFF
SHOW PLACfc
OF CANADA’S
ROCKIES
Stop over at this famous
resort on the way to Europe
■ O see the best of Canada's
Rockies—see Banff, region of
loveliness—mile-high peaks,
inspiring panoramas and
tonic climate. Stay at the
df
great C.P.R. Banff Springs Hotel, starting
point of a hundred new and exciting
outdoor and indoor pleasures. Banff is
only reached via Canadian Pacific.
Write or call for details and booklets.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
World's Greatest Travel Systen.
TRAINS - STEAMERS - HOTEL
Special
Excursions
CANADA
and
USA
• - •
m
df
Sydney
"i'IRST CLASS
RETURN
CABIN CLASS
RETURN
£99
£7O
Usual fares £125/10/- and £B7 respectively.
SYDNEY TO VANCOUVER—
Via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva (Fiji) and
Honolulu.
SYDNEY TO SAN FRANCISCO—
Via Wellington (N.Z.), Rarotonga and
Papeete (Tahiti).
Stop-overs at any port of call
can he arranged.
Passengers may return by the
alternate route.
The trip allows a two months'
stay in either Canada or
U.S.A.
No Exchange Charges.
Full particulars from
and Union Line;
2-n George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
COME
PRICES ONI
BRITISH
LIGHTS-CAR
BATTERIES
£xtf>e
;fej6o
Owners of British light cars,
can now have Exide start-
ing assurance and long life
from 60/-.
The increased popularity of
these cars, with the con-
sequent bigger demand for
light car batteries, makes
this new price possible.
AUSTIN - MORRIS - SINGER - TRIUMPH - STANDARD
STATE DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane—EXlDE BATTERY SERVICE (Q) PTY.
LTD.,; Sydney—EXlDE BATTERY SERVICE (Gibson Battle & Co. Ltd.);
Melbourne—A. P. SUTHERLAND; Adelaide UNBEHAUN & JOHN-
STONE LTD.; Perth—M. J. BATEMAN LTD.; Hobart —MEDHURST &
SONS PTY. LTD.
ECX 9.
All Debts Paid.
BY HAROLD MERCER
BLOTHERS was a man full of trouble.
Not that he really owed much; but
he owed what he could. A man who
did his best in a small way. And the manner
in which he could borrow two bob after
almost weeping tears over his failure to re-
pay the last had a touch of the artistic.
There was always someone looking for
him; someone who would accost you apolo-
getically and, explaining that he had seen
you with Blothers, ask you if you knew his
address, and when you suggested that it
was Earlwood would say, “Too right! He
did live at Earlwood; but where is he now?”
That is the way, usually, you learned about
lllothers's latest change of address.
One day I came upon Blothers in a sort
of climax of the agony which his debts
brought upon him. Before him were sheets
of paper upon which figures were scrawled,
and all about him was a litter of documents
that looked like bills, with the blue paper
of court summonses scattered amongst them.
“Just take a seat whilst I finish this, old
man,” he said, and swept away the papers
that had spilled on to a chair. “What did
you say that furniture account was, Mabel?”
“They took the furniture,” objected Mrs.
Blothers. "They claimed we still owed them
thirty-seven pounds odd.”
“We'll give them forty,” said Blothers,
and put the figures down.
“You haven’t forgotten the eighteen pence
for the odd-job man who cleaned up the
garden at that place we had at Arncliffe?”
inquired Mrs. Blothers anxiously. “You
remember he wanted ten shillings and all
you had”
“I’m putting down two and six,” said
Blothers. “I say, old chap, I’ve put you
down Will that cover it. do you think?
Oh. well, perhaps it is on the liberal side,
but we’re not going to argue about trifles;
let it go at £5. Do you mind running up
that column to see if my total is correct,
whilst I add up these?”
“What’s the idea?” I inquired. “Going-
bankrupt ?”
He looked up with surprise and some hurt.
“The name of Blothers has never been
associated with a disgrace like that!” he
said. “Besides, do you realise how much
it costs to go bankrupt?”
“Two hundred and seventy-three pounds
eleven and tenpence!” exclaimed Blothers
when, having checked it, I handed the last
sheet back to him. “Say three hundred, to
include items I may have omitted. How is
a man in my circumstances to meet a sum
like that? Yet it must be done —it shall
be done!”
“Why worry?” I asked. “Pretty old,
some of those bills, aren’t they? The people
you owe them to have probably forgotten
all about them.”
“But I cannot forget! I will be a miser-
able man until I can face the world and
say ‘There is not a single person on this
earth to whom I owe a farthing!’ ”
His anguish perturbed me, the more so
as it continued in spite of efforts to pacify
him ; but his mood changed suddenly. He
crossed quickly to the table and tore the
lists which had caused him such trouble into
fragments.
“Well, that’s settled!” he said decisively.
“I can’t pay, so it’s no use worrying any
more about it. Do you think, Mabel, we’ve
got enough for a couple of bottles of beer?”
As it happened, I had, and was glad to
wash out the memory of recent anguish.
“Mind you,” he said as we sat over
the liquor, “when I say that those debts of
mine are settled, I only mean for tlie time
being-—a sort of moratorium.”
“We might win a big sweep,” said Mrs.
Blothers hopefully. Her husband frowned
a little, evidently not liking his aspirations
to honesty to be made dependent on chance.
“When we do strike luck I’ll give every-
one a hundred per cent, interest on what
I owe them !” he declared.
“Ned’s a man like that,” chimed in the
lady. “He likes to be fair to everybody.”
And then Edmund Blothers won first
prize in the State Lottery.
Not being specially interested in the
lotteries, I missed this, somehow; but
Blothers avalanched upon me in Pitt-street,
and told me all about it. I was glad. I
liked the Blotherses. Their loyalty and affec-
tion to one another stood out refreshingly.
So I congratulated Blothers in the usual
manner; as a matter of fact, the elated
prize-winner, not having yet collected his
prize, had very little but the ticket he
flashed exultantly, his enthusiasm and a
slip of paper with what proved to be an
advertisement clipped from the morning
paper pasted on it.
“That’s what I intend to do!” he said
boisterously, thumping the paper as he
passed it to me. I read:
“Edmund Blothers is anxious to hear
immediately from all persons to whom he
may be indebted in any sum small or
large.”
An address, of course, finished the appeal.
“Well?” I asked.
Blothers flushed. “I’m going to pay them
all up—double whatever it is I owe them.
People will be able to say of me at last,
‘He looks the whole world in the face, for
he owes not any man!’ ”
Ilis enthusiasm swept me along with
him; and I found myself in the office of a
catering establishment, listening to him tell
an impressed manager that he was Edmund
Blothers, winner of the Umpteenth Lottery,
and I saw him wave that over-used ticket
in verification.
“The fact is, Mr. Bakebun,” he said con-
fidentially, “in the course of recent years,
owing to ill fortune, I have incurred some
debts which I have not been able to repay.
The first thing I want to do is to repay
every penny I owe—not only pay it, but
pay double, as an act of thankfulness.
What I propose to do is to invite all my
creditors to a dinner—a really good dinner
—at which I will carry out this idea of re-
payment.”
“It’s a fine gesture, Mr. Blothers,” said
the manager, greatly impressed.
There was a feeling of alarm within me
as we walked out. I could see poor
Blothers, who all his life had so badly
needed money, dissipating the fortune that
had come to him in magnificent gestures,
and being as poor as ever again.
“There’s no need for you to be foolish,
Ned,” I said. “Entertain your creditors it
you like, but you needn’t make the enter-
tainment too lavish. And there is no earthly
reason why you should double the amounts
you repay. To be candid, most of your
creditors will regard it as a gift from the
gods if you pay them at all.”
“I tell you I’m going to do the thing
properly!” retorted Blothers enthusiasti-
cally. “There’s not a man in all Sydney will
be able to say I did not treat him well.
I’ll make the beggars who said harsh things
ashamed of themselves.”
It was a remarkable crowd that attended
the Gloriana for the great occasion—-a
crowd in which obviously hired dinner-suits
predominated ; but it was a very glad crowd.
Over it Blothers beamed, bestowing buoyant
greetings on men he had dodged for years.
The envelopes I had expected were not
at our allotted places at the table, but,
when we were seated and the waiters had
commenced their service, Blothers himself
passed quickly round, handing envelopes out
to the guests. Before he had reached me
there rose a murmur of delight rippling
round the room; somebody commenced to
thump out applause, and others joined in;
and hardly liad Blothers finished and reached
his own place than the whole assembly broke
into cheers.
“Took your advice; look the whole world
in the face,” Blothers had said cryptically
and hurriedly in passing me. “Not double
-ten per cent, interest.”
The cheque I discovered was for £5 10s.;
although the few shillings I had given
Blothers were too many to be remembered
1 did not believe that the total would add
to a fiver. Still, that was a matter I could
argue with him later on.
It was a hectic night. Blothers had had
the thing done splendidly as far as food was
concerned: his effort rose to magnificence in
the drink department. It seemed, shortly, that
there was always someone on his feet express-
ing the general public opinion of Blothers as
a dashed fine fellow. The inevitable argu-
ments arose. One was between two gentle-
men who had served Brothers with milk in
the long ago. The facts appeared to be that
Cowrun had declined to serve Blothers any
longer and he had transferred his custom
to Milkan, who, being a rival, had not been
warned by Cowrun of the danger of non-
payment. But these facts were forgotten
to-night. Cowrun accused Milkan of having
stolen from him a customer whom he would
have felt it an honor to go on serving if he
owed him a million pounds; and Milkan re-
torted that Cowrun was a sordid money-
grabber who had not recognised an honest
gentleman when he saw one, but had
pestered him for a paltry account.
Suppressed, the argument smouldered and
had a new outbreak; and there were others.
So the gathering broke up into pieces. I
found myself enjoying, with a parcel of
assorted tradesmen who had obviously never
been there before, the midnight drink service
of a palatial hostelry, hearing over again
of the wonderful esteem in which Blothers
was held. In the morning I met another
section of the gathei-ing in a hotel at Darl-
inghurst; and for the next two days frag-
ments, still celebrating, were liable to be
met unexpectedly in various bars.
And then came the shock.
The laugh of Amos boomed as we dis-
cussed it. Amos is one of the most tolerant
men I know; he can afford to be.
“But why did the little beggar want to
go to all that trouble,” I said, “if he didn’t
mean”
“He did mean, probably,” laughed Amos.
“It’s the power of habit, my boy! In Syd
ney; the poor devil has been borrowing and
owing all his life. In theory he wanted to
pay everybody in full, always, but not badly
enough to make a big effort to do it. The
old theory was in his mind when his fortune
came. But see how his resolution faded!
First he was going to double the amount he
owed everybody. Then he shied, as he
thought over it, and came down to the debt
and ten per cent, interest.
“And then,” chuckled Amos, “when he
considered the big amount he was throwing
away on the debts he had never been in the
habit of paying, revulsion came. Habit
asserted itself. He rushed to the bank and
drew out all his money before the cheques
could be presented. Somewhere else—in
Brisbane or Melbourne or wherever he and
his wife have gone—he will probably start
afresh' and never owe a penny to anyone;
but habit in Sydney was too strong for
him.”
Ruefully I fingered in my pocket the
cheque that had proved merely waste paper.
“Do you know what?” cried Amos with a
roaring laugh. “This morning I had a visit
from a gentleman named Bakebun, who saw
me at the feast. He wanted to know if I
knew where Blothers has gone. Blothers
hasn’t even paid the caterer!”
The Unknown Singer.
Slow past my window in the silver light
Someone came singing; ’twas a happy
song,
Fantastic almost, with a foreign tune,
As if the singer sang it to the moon.
And cried aloud his gladness to the night.
The gay song woke the ghosts of long ago
In every listener’s heart in that quiet
street;
And some old hearts were filled with pre-
cious pain,
As if Youth turned back in his tracks
again,
And put the years to flight like summer
snow.
And what of that gay song that wrought the
spell
That conquered Age and Sadness? Could
it be
A lover’s happiness; or just a boy
In love with life; or yet the maudlin joy
Of too much wine? Ah, none will ever tell!
MAORILAND.
CHRISTINE COMBER.


What a difference
Simonizing.
makes/
BEFORE
AND
,AFTER /
*
:
m
Mm':''
*v
II
y -
s i
I
m
'V:
s*
■.TfiBaFigl
w## ! P 5 Mlilll§iwSs
- J
’** :
■I
:,?>. 4 -
#These blocks were made direct from unretouched photos,
without any artist’s work, JThe strong high lights in the
Sirnonized mudguards are reflections of skylights,
CLOTHES MAKE
THE MAN!
BUT THE GOOD IMPRESSION
YOU WOULD MAKE IS RUINED
IF YOU DRIVE A DULL
DISCOLOURED CAR I!
««*
NISH
»•»**-
Pl*
■
SIMOKI2S
iSOKS
6® u l? s
Ids
ouco
a NT
Nwvfs
E9?JC6tiq
«NIS«fS
wmm
eN^
Ef»s
DU CO
SOLD BY ALL
GOOD MOTOR
STORES,
3/- PAIR (small
size), 10/- PAIR
(large size). StNGX.ES, 3/9, small; 5/6. large.
Simomzing, the world-famous method to restore used cars to their original show-
room beauty will easily and quickly convert your car to a gleaming beauty that
will last for thousands of miles. Best of all is the satisfaction you feel after
Simonizing your own car at home. It looks better than new and you
have saved pounds you would have spent for repainting or a new car.
Just apply Simoniz Kleener in the green can to remove all dulness and stains and to restore the finish to the original
color the car was painted. Kleener is so soft in texture that it only removes the powdered, dull, oxidised lacquer,
and has no action on the good, clean lacquer on your car. No other cleaning agent is so wonderful in operation and
so harmless to the good finish- Next apply Simoniz from the yellow tin to preserve the wonderful new finish you
have obtained with the Kleener. Simoniz provides a lustrous, transparent film of protection which, with just one
application, keeps the lacquer new for months of exposure and thousands of miles of travel. Sun, rain, dust, mud,
salt air or traffic fumes cannot mar a Simonized car. Be sure you ask for and get genuine Simoniz and Kleeiiter.
'ZflfotorutfWue
Beware of polishes which are abrasive cleaners
only, rapidly wearing away the lacquer and leaving
no film of protection as with Simoniz. Good
painters know that Simoniz
protects the finish and that
Benzol easily removes it for
spraying.
free:
SAMPLES
FOR TRIAL ON YOUR CAR
SIMONIZ
PERTH.
Atkins (W.A.). Ltd.
HOBART.
C C. Boag Pty.,
Ltd.
ADELAIDE.
Cornell, Ltd.
Harris, Scarfe, Ltd.
J. N. Taylor, Ltd.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS:
MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Motor Accessory
Houses.
NEW ZEALAND.
H. 0. Wiles, Ltd., Auckland.
SYDNEY.
Bennett & Wood, Ltd.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.
Hislop Lloyd, Lt*L
Westeott Hazell, Ltd.
BRISBANE.
Butler Bros. Ltd.
E.S.C.A., Ltd.
Martin Wilson. Ltd.
Motorite Equipments Pty., Ltd., Peel St., Nth. Melb.,
Enclosed find one penny stamp, postage for FREE
SAMPLES of Simoniz and Kleener.
NAME
ADDRESS
“Bulletin,” Nov. 9.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
fafeuLLtia
Every week since 1 880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin ’
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney
Please forward The Bulletin jor 12, 6, S months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
Y*
A\^ V
Of
Wm c y
stf'
&
0*
. «* o* 1 \\^ 6
*$*<& «


BY APPOINTMENT TO
HIS MAJESTY. THE
£ N
8Y APPOINTMENT TO
M.R.H.THE PRINCE OF WALES
LUBRICATE
EMPIRE
TRADE
with
WAKEFIELD
MOTOR OIL
A Grade for Every
Motoring and
Engineering Purpose
Buy from your local garage
C C WAKEFIELD 8c CO. LTD. (m ah British
