

A
L
V
•. •>**«*
*
ROYAL RESERVE
The Bulletin
Ha/ux/ Jfylsuwup *—
Vol. 53.—N0. 2748.
Wednesday, October 12, 1932.
Price 6d.
Begistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


pHE 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
nm
IUMs
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System oj Writing as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ’
My Same
My Address
S.B. 332
C 5
Protects
While It Cleanses
You cleanse your skin
/ regularly—why not pro-
/
tect it as you cleanse it?
Caticara Soap
contains the medicinal,
antiseptic and healing
qualities of Caitteara.
It is soothing, fragrant
and refreshing.
Soap Is. Sample free.
Address: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S.W.
N
N
HI
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
THE FORTRESS
By HUGH'WALPOLE.
The successor to “Rogue Herries”
and “Judith Paris,” “The Fortress
covers a period of English social
life from 1825 to 1875.
[Dominions Edition
“The best tribute I can pay to ‘The Fortress’
is to confess, that I: find myself eagerly await-
ing its sequel..., I enjoyed ‘The Fortress’
hugely, predict for it a success that it well
deserves.”
—J. B. Priestley in “Evening Standard.”
Lark Ascending
By MAZO DE LA ROCHE, author
of "Jalna,” “White Oaks,” “Finch’s
Fortune,” etc.
“Lark Ascending” is essentially a novel
of contrast —a story of light and shade, a
contrast of Sicilian exuberance with New
England restraint. It marks a departure from
her famous “White Oak” Trilogy, and finds
Miss de la Roche in a new vein.
[Empire Library
The Heartless Land
By JAMES STERN.
[Empire Library
“The Heartless Land” of this book is South
Africa, for the eight short stories of which it
consists aye concerned with life in Rhpdesia,
Shakespeare—and That Crush
By RICHARD DARK. Being
Angela’s Guide to English Litera-
ture. With illustrations by Thomas
Derrick. Cloth, 4s. 6d. net.
“Nothing more fraught with laughter has
appeared this autumn.”— “Morning Post”
The Hilarious Universe
By RICHARD DARK. Being
Angela’s Guide to Einstein—and
That Crush. Pictures by Thomas
Derrick. 4s. 6d. net. (Ujiiform
with “Shakespeare and That
Crush.”)
Number Ten Joy Street
Contains new and original stories
in prose and verse, by the best-
living authors. 240 pages, with
colored plates, and !00 black-and-
white illustrations. 6s. net.
Basil Blackwell—Oxford,
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
AlilMH
IjB'UiRiEA'U CT
'Diiß'WJiiAViriiioat*
Queensland’s Great
Morning Newspaper,
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
Is Read By Those Who
Spend Most Freely!
It enjoys marked popularity in city and
country alike—widespread distribution
that is the desideratum of merchants'and
manufacturers whose goods are everywhere
procurable. The “Daily Mail” will get
you results. It is read bv all classes and
particularly by young married folks, whose
wants are many and varied. Its favorable
circulation position has been definitely
established. Rates, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone; 81522.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
The service “The Age” renders is
essentially practical.
Being a publication of the highest
prestige, it enjoys close and continu-
ous contact with adult through-
out Victoria, thus assisting the
conduct of business by linking up
with the everyday domestic needs of
its readers.
“THE AGE”
circulates in over 1 15,000 homes
daily, and publishes 1,000,000 adver-
tisements annually.
KEEP THIS IN MIND
when planning future allocations.
Rates on application to the leading service
agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECTMEDIUM Tg WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. O. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
A should road the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
IF
you desire to reach that section o!;
the N.Z. public that moulds the buy-
ing habits of the rest;
IF
you have a message for New
ers who have more money to spend
on more commodities than the many;
IF
your goal is a market with the maxi-
mum capacity to respond to your
advertising efforts, then cover the
Wellington Province, the highest in
spending' power, by using the most
effective medium,
Clk Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
’Phone: 85241.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Novels, Good and Otherwise
Thousands are writing novels which have
all the outward trappings of excellence. The
style of a book may be individual, the
story interesting, and the writer may have
knowledge of all kinds of out-of-the-way
subjects and the ability to make them
glamorous. This kind of work passes a
few hours pleasantly. A day or so later
somebody mentions it, and you find it has
gone out of your head. You can hardly
recall a name or a situation. It is an
average novel, and doomed tp oblivion.
The other kind (“Vanity Fair,” “The
Egoist” and “Pickwick Papers” are some
supijpme examples) may be about scoundrels
or snobs, or simpletons; people everybody
has known, like Dobbin, or freaks, like
Jingle; there may be no plot at all, and
much of the writing may be bad. It doesn’t
matter. The people in it bocomp absorb-
ing almost on sight, and their joys and
sorrows are never quite forgotten after-
wards. This is the mark of an exceptional
novel. Ope author may have worldly ex-
perience, a cultivated mind and the power
to write beautifully, yet never do better
than an average novel; another, with a
restricted outlook, few educational advant-
ages, and theme, may produce a
masterpiece. Insight (the capacity to under-
stand human beings); courage (the capacity
to tell the truth about them); sympathy
(the capacity to pity and forgive them)—
these are the attributes of the great. Un-
remembered story-tellers always lack first-
hand knowledge of human nature:, and fall
back on types which have been used by
others; and they substitute sentimentalism
for genuine emotion.
A Fantasy
The writing of March Cost, author of A
Man Named Luke (Collins, Bs. 6d.), has
been praised by Walter de la Mare. Here
is a picture of a November evening in
C avendish-square.
Outside the motors purred by in the mud.
The heavy air muffling each urgent sound
hollowed to an echo the warning horns until
the world outside the window-pane seemed
to float by insubstantial as a wraith.
Moisture clung in dimness to each chill
surface, and then dropped soundlessly into
a drifting obscurity. Only the trees
appeared momently to increase in density
and significance as they sprawled across the
quiet of Mr. Vincent’s study.
Mr. Vincent is a surgeon, and the book is
concerned to a great extent with sickness.
(A Wimpole-street doctor testifies on the
dust-jacket to the accuracy of the medical
and hospital details.) The arrangement of
the narrative is original. Mr. Vincent is
shown as he was before he met the Ameri-
can Phoebe-Ann and her millionaire father,
and as he becomes later. He falls in love
with her, but refrains from saying so though
he knows she loves him. She dies under
an operatjon which he performs (she would
have had the will to live, we are given
to understand, if he had told her of his
love); and he seeks refuge in work. Pre-
sently he dies, too —worked to a standstill,
though young as eminent surgeons go--and
we accompany his tortured spirit to the
haunts he has known in life; theatres, spots
he has visited with Phoebe-Ann, institu-
tions such a.s the Temple Church which
contain the surging spirits of close on a
thousand years of English life, eighteenth-
century squares like his own. As his ghost
drifts about London it hears everything,
from the newspaper boys shouting his death
to the conversations and even the unspoken
thoughts of his old friends; and just as his
ghostly ears hear everything so his eyes see
everything.
Here on the shadowy Embankment he
could still see them all—people of the past
and the present: man, woman and child and
beast; wending their way in unending pro-
cession ; the worst and the best; pirates
and princes, soldiers and saints, sailors and
harlots, flower-girls and dustmen, and in
their company, trundling through Cleopatra’s
Needle, the very elephants and hyenas of
prehistoric time.
‘‘Too many have lived here!” he cried,
and his anguish was borne back to him in
these words as an echo of someone else’s.
It has points as a prose poem, but it
isn’t a good novel. The characters are all
from stock. Mr. Vincent is the cold, stern
aristocrat, with a warm heart behind the
icy fagade, of so many young women’s
dreams. Phoebe-Ann and her father are
low-comedy Americans made over into crea-
tures of whimsical charm, and unreal in
both capacities. And then there are the
fashionable surgeon who is incompetent at
his job, and is
carrying on with a
fellow - surgeon’s
wife (the lady de-
spises him, and is
only conducting
the intrigue be-
cause the husband she adores, and who loves
her better than life, is neglecting her for his
work) ; and the conscientious nurse who
worships Mr. Vincent, and the one with the
kiss-curl whom he has been qbliged to
rebuke, and who bates him accordingly; and
Mr. Vincent’s faithful comic servants, and
the humble folk on whose child he has
operated for nothing, and the cynical editor
and his cringing reporter. All are accord-
ing to formula, and without the breath of
life.
Slum Life
There is nothing glamorous about Ebb
and Flood, by James Hanley (The Bodley
Head, Ss. 6d.), yet it is full of strange
beauties. It is a bitter study of life among
the very poor in the East End of London;
and, particularly, of the mental processes
of these bedevilled unfortunates. He con-
centrates on three boys who have jobs at
the docks, and on their mothers (their “old
ladies” as they call them) whom they sup-
port. One mother is deaf and dumb and
in danger of being sent to an institution:
another is a chronic drunkard. The boys
work desperately, haunted by dread of. the
sack; and for relaxation hang about the
streets pestering their elders, who pester
them; patronise cheap cinemas and an old
man who sells indecent postcards; and, in
their pitiably inadequate vocabularies, try
to explain their aspirations to one another.
Burns, the smallest and most futile, whose
mother is never sober and whose termagant
of a sister is expecting an illegitimate
child, wants to be strong. He feels it will
give him independence. He sees an adver-
tisement of a developer, and makes up his
mind to save up and buy one. He risks his
weekly pay—the money his mother drinks—
at cards; wins at first and sees the developer
within his grasp, and then loses. Condron,
his friend, is angry.
“Wliat did I tell you? Playing with your
old lady’s money. You’re a bloody little fool.
Where are you going now?” he added.
“To the lavo,” Burns said.
“All right,” Condron said, “but you come
back here,” he warned him. “We don’t
want you giving the bloody show away. I’ll
get a sub. for you. Don’t forget,” he called
out after the gradually-disappearing figure,
“I’ll sub. - for you.”
Burns did not reply. He made his way
into the engine-room, and as he came to the
front of the ladder picked up a piece of rope.
His mind was a blur, wholly vacant. He
slowly climbed the ladder like an old or
drunken man.
He hangs himself. The people of this
story move in a nightmare land of want,
sufferings and indignities which make the
problems of the conventional rich seem
trivial. The boys are degraded, but they
have redeeming qualities—a capacity for
friendship and a sense of family duty. They
know their “old women” are destroying
them, robbing them of their only chances
of what they regard as happiness, but they
don’t so much as consider the idea of desert-
ing them. After Burns’s death Condron
decides that he can’t endure the life any
longer, and his mother offers to go into the
Home. He won’t have it. “You’re coming
with me,” he" says, and a week later they
leave with their possessions in a bag which
he carries on his back.
Passers-by stood to look back at the ill-
assorted couple as they slowly climbed the
hill. Children made fun of the way in
which they spoke to each other on their
fingers.
The merit of the book is its self-evident
truth. These people did the things which are
recorded so unemotionally, and the writer
makes you understand why they did them.
Ebb and Flood isri’t pleasant reading, but
it has some of the qualities of great litera-
ture.
RED PAGE.
From Camden to Harborside Bay
A week ago I spent two days in Sydney:
out of sheer desperation from seeing so
many cows. This is a complete cow of a
place; and, whenever I leave it, or return
to it, I imagine an arch of cows’ tails
lifted in my honor during the time I take
to travel through. I hear the poor beasts,
on frosty nights, mooing the moon; and
I walk among their horns, or across their
muck in the daytime: I drink their milk,
spread their butter on my bread; and
eat their meat always.
So. as I told you just now, I fled to Bill
Quodling, who lives in a flat at Hollyhock-
road, Harborside Bay. I arrived outside
his steps without warning, and watched
for the appearance of his eye at the hole in
(Red Page continued on page d.>


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—Our Policy, Which Knows No Deviation.
"THE SENIOR STORE."
AT
ome,
wuzAmzl/
huge money PROBUM
Of w 0 "*
fV)*"' 5 ! t co'» o '*
*»« '**
Here is an opportunity to completely furnish a
modern four-roomed home or flat for only
£B6/10/-. This is an offer which does not
occur every day, and any who wish to
furnish tastefully but economically
would be Well advised to
investigate.
m
*
■
? mi
‘ H
m
tfHlSfj,
BjH
K raj|
H I
■
m 0
-
MB .
• >?*-•
H
OMPLE^ E
;£DROOM-
£4O/IS/ 9
s
RO
*
-
: I
We Emphasise the QUALITY of this Furniture
The most significant thing about this offer is not the exceptionally low price, but
the stylish, modern note in the designs and the splendid quality. Each piece of
furniture in this scheme is sturdily and conscientiously made, arid will stand the
closest inspection of critical guests. In fact, you will be proud to entertain your
friends if you take advantage of this exceptional offer. All furnishings, floor-
coverings, etc., included in this scheme have been selected with the greatest by
experts to combine harmoniously and reflect that atmosphre of quality which has been
captured so successfully, so inexpensively. > ' ... _ ' ..... ,
,-TF MODERN
°sg',r
1
H
m ' -
rHE BREAKFASi
‘ DINING ROOM.
£l4/7/9
~ ' ?V'
m
s4\pStf? s|J|
wmm
v.
m
: r ; *?3
Rlr
if
COMPLETE
KITCHEN,
A COMPLETE LIST OF WHAT YOUR £B6/10/- WILL BUY
Bedroom Group
£4O/1 519
The “Conqueror” Bedroom Suite, in
figured Walnut. This suite is manu-
factured in our own factory.
\ £ \ s. .. d.
Price, the Suite ..... .19 19 0
4ft. 6in. Bedstead to 5 17 6
4ft. 6in. Spring Mattress, \
with raised ends and
roll edge ..- \. 1 15 0
4ft. 6in. Japara Kapok
Mattress, in strong
Union or Belgian tick-
ing 4 5 0
2 Kapok Pillows, each 5/- 10 0
9 x 9ft. Axminster Carpet 6 10 0
1 pair Curtains, and Val-
ance in Shadow Tissue,
and supplied with 1
double rod and fitting
for the sum of . 1 10 6
I net Dwarf Curtain, with
top and bottom Rod. . 3 9
1 Holland Blind, on best-
quality Spring Roller,
Cord and Acorn .... 5 0
Total ...£4O 15 9
{Furniture—Ground Floor, Pitt
Street.)
£1417/9
The “Bijou” Breakfast-Dining
Setting.
£
Price ... r. '. 10
..... * £ v -
19 x 9ft. British Congoleum
Square 1
1 pair': Curtains and Valance
in Printed Linen, supplied
with double Rod and Fit-
■ >-ting. for . ... ; . .. . . . 1
1 Net Dwarf Curtain, with
top and bottom Rod ...
1 Holland Blind on best-
quality Spring Roller, cord
and Acorn
Total £l4
Room
s. d.
10 0
18 6
10 6
3 9
5 0
7 9
Kitchen Group
£7/1 3/9
£ s. d.
I Kitchen Cabinet, in Tas-
manian Oak, finished
Natura'l Color, 3 ft. x sft-, >
with 2 clear glass doors
and shelf in upper portion,
and with 2 wood doors
and shelf in lower section 3 2 6
4 ft. x 2 ft. Tasmanian Oak
Kitchen Table ... .:. . . 1 9 9
2 Sturdy Tasmanian Oak Kit-
chen Chairs, each 8/6 . . 17 0
Linoleum to cover 9ft. x 9ft.
Room 1 15 9
1 Net Dwarf Curtain, with
top and bottom Rod .... 3 9
1 Holland Blind on best-
quality Spring Roller .... 5 0
Total
£7 13 9
Each Item or Suite may be
obtained separately if desired at
the Prices quoted
Lounge Room Group
£23/12/9
Three-piece Lounge Suite, comprising
sft. Settee and two roomy Easy Chairs.
Fitted with 5 loose seat cushions in
selected Genoa Velvet. The backs of
each piece are in two-tone Fabrikoid.
£ s. d.
Price, the Suite 10 10 0
1 circular Occasional Table,
two-tone finish, 24in. dia.
and 2 1 in. high, and fitted
with circular undershelf 1 10 0
1 dome-top Cabinet Book-
case, 17in. wide and 6ft.
high, with two fixed and
three movable shelves; also
22Jin. Cupboard with
shelf 3 0 0
1 9ft. x 9ft. Axminster Car-
pet (seamless, British) . . 6 10 0
1 pair Curtains and 1 Val-
ance, in fadeless Poplin,
supplied with Rods and
Fittings • 1 14 0
1 Net Dwarf Curtain, with
top and bottom Rod .... 3 9
I Holland Blind, on best-
quality Spring Roller, Cord
and Valance S 0
Total £23 12 9
Free Delivery to the City and Suburbs
only.
Anthony Horderns'
SYDNEY
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
’Phone: M 2401


m
//
//A
/
VW
S
m
L
V
r
i
NJ
1
17 %
A
i.
/(
■K
X
7
The Sturdy leomen of Englanc
knew the value of Beer
Good beef . . . pure beer . . . and the virile British Empire—
the three have gone hand in hand ever since England has been
a Power.
The yeomen of England . . . healthy, lusty and happy . . .
knew the value of good brown ale. Their descendants, carrying
on the traditions of Empire in all parts of the World, still
derive energy and vigour from beer which is even better than
the ale the yeomen knew.
Beer is malt in its best and most inexpensive form * • . every
drop means health and nourishment for you.
DRINK
MORE
BEER
i
(
V
J
\
B 6 -75
Brewed under ideal conditions in vour own State
TOOTH’S TOOHEYS
RESCH’S


T
Somr
A
Ten seconds
to strop.
Ten seconds
to clean.
The VALET
Razor Strop & Blade form
the PERFECT SHAVING
PARTNERSHIP
Perfect shaving. Quicker
shaving. More economical
shaving. That’s what the
“VALET” self-stropping
razor means to you. Save
time, save money. Shave
with a “VALET.”
British Made —of all dealers
Sets from 5/- to 65 /-
' |
ill
“VALET”
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australia ; —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIMITED,
181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
a yellow blind where he is more often
observed than he is capable of observing.
But, on this occasion, he knew my knock,
and began to talk before he had reached the
keeking-post. “There isn’t a word about
Mrs. Andrew Nevison Gumph in Meynell s
'Biographical Dictionary.’.... I’ve ex-
amined the book thoroughly.”....
Here the door opened; and his new dog
flung himself at me.
Bill’s soliloquy changed into a cracked
yell of rage, followed by screams from the
dog while it ran to the kitchen. Then,
in another moment, I was inside B.’s
favorite room, triangular-shaped, full of
books and obsolete furniture.
Wc didn’t continue the topic of Mi’s.
Andrew Nevison Gumph which Bill’s con-
science had unfolded, reacting upon a letter
of inquiry I had addressed to him several
months previously.
Through the darkness my friend’s face
looked like a Raeburn portrait hanging
against the wall. There was a glass case on
top of a cupboard, almost so high up as to
be out of sight; and in the case appeared
a pile of wax fruit. Nearer down he had
put a common pie-melon in a jar, to orna-
ment a shelf, and there were three Chinese
paintings—dragons with emperors, dragons
with maidens, dragons with priests.
Bill said, “I'm at work on an article
dealing with ‘Perception and Apperception.’
Do you know what ‘Apperception’
means?”
My mendacious nod didn’t deceive him;
so he explained; and presently pointed to
a phrase embodying the words “derisive
analysis.”
“ ‘Derisive analysis’!.... It took myself
and Hopegood five hours to hit upon the
right adjective to go with ‘analysis’!”
I was saying “nuffin’ ”; which pleased Bill
very much: until, suddenly, he speared one
of the sentences at the end of a finger,
and exclaimed “By God! That should be a
comma; not a full stop.... Wouldn’t you
put a comma?”
I shook my head; got up; looked out of
the window; then came back to my chair.
“Put a semi-colon,” I said.
“Of course it ought to be a semi-colon!”
he replied; and wrote it in at once.
HUGH MCCRAE.
Christopher Brennan
Christopher John Brennan, who died last
week, was the finest classical scholar any
Australian university has produced; one
who was widely read in many languages,
and a great personality. But his poetry is
his monument. A mystic with astonish-
ing powers of self-expression, he was
influenced first by the Greek masters and
later by some of the French moderns such
as Mallarme. It is ironical that “A Chant
of Doom,” the work by which he is best
known to the general reader, should have
been an indictment of the Germany which
he loved, and from which he derived so
much of his learning. It created a sensation
throughout Australia and in Britain when
it appeared in the “Lone Hand” in 1916;
but the world’s outlook has changed since
then, and only the majesty of the phrasing
remains to thrill us now.
Hark! the ruffian guns of LiSge
Bark refusal; holy rage
Seizes on the baffled priest—
And the world beholds the Beast.
Li6ge is loud on German truth;
Flanders cries on German ruth;
Reims and Senlis swell the tale
Of the wilful German bale:
Nay what boots it to prolong
All the sickening list of Wrong?
Pharisee, thou whited tomb,
Mankind hath decreed thy doom.
Chime his fame and chime Ms name;
Rhyme his title, rhyme his shame:
German faith and German trust ;
German hate and German lust:
—Bring the Beast unto the dust.
Much of his best work appeared on this
Page when A. G. Stephens was editing it.
An example of his ear for melody and
genius for the right word:— \
Let us go down, the long dead night is done,
the dolorous incantation has been wrought;
soul, let us go, the saving word is won,
down from the tower of our hermetic thought.
See—for the wonder glimmers in the gates,
eager to burst the soundless bars and grace
the wistful earth, that still in blindness waits,
perfect with suffering for her Lord’s embrace.
The spaces of the waters of the dawn
are spiritual with our transfigured gaze ;
the intenser heights of morning, far withdrawn,
expect our dream to shine along their ways.
But speak the word! and o’er the adoring whole,
straight from the marge of the perfected hours,
sudden, large music through the vast shall roll,
a sea of light foaming with seedless flowers;
lilies that form on some ethereal wave,
still generate of the most ancient blue,
burst roses, rootless, knowing not the grave
nor yet the charnel thought by which
So we shall move at last, untortured powers,
and in white silence hear, as souls unborn,
our hymn given back by the eternal hours
singing together in the eternal morn.
He was the most personal of poets. He
loved humanity and adored youth and its
beauties, but his own spiritual problems
pre-occupied him to the end of his days.
I said, This misery must end.
Shall I, that am a man and know
that sky and wind are yet my friend,
sit huddled under any blow?
So speaking left the dismal room
and stept into the mother-night
all filled with sacred quickening gloom
where the few stars burn’d low and bright
and darkling on my darkling hid
heard thro’ the beach’s sullen boom
heroic note of living will
rung trumpet-clear against the fight;
so stood and heard, and raised my eyes
erect, that they might drink of space,
and took the night upon my face....
“And took the night upon my face”—that
splendid phrase epitomises' his attitude to-
wards life. No reverse daunted him, and
while the sky and wind and stars were his
friends his spirit remained serene. A power-
ful and glowing mind and a most lovable
character.
J.D.
National Song Competition
.Entries in the National Song Competi-
tion have begun to flow in, and already,
about a hundred have been received.—By
the time the competition closes—Novem-
ber 16—this number will be multiplied many
times, judging by the rate at which they are
now arriving.
The question of judges is now being
decided. Professor Brereton, the highest
authority'on Australian verse, has consented
to be one of the judges; the names of the
others will be announced probably next
week.
Many inquiries and suggestions have been
received. In reply:—
(1) Prior publication is not a bar to
entry. But the verses may be entered only
by their author.
(2) There is nothing to bar verse-writers
attaching a musical setting. The judges will
be asked to select the verses best suited
for use as a national song; if an entrant
thinks he can best show that his verses are
suited for use as a national song by attach-
ing a musical setting, there seems no reason
why he should not do so.
(3) One condition of entry is that the
song (it - any) ultimately chosen as the
national song may be sung without royalty.
This, of course, does not mean that the
writers lose their rights over all songs sub-
mitted. But The Bulletin and the
Woman’s Mirror are to be entitled to print
them.
The prizes are: First £25, second £lO,
and five consolation prizes of £l each, and
the competition will close on November 16.
Contributions must be signed with pen-
names (with the real names in separate
scaled envelopes) and addressed: “Song
Competition,” , Bulletin Office, Box
252188, G.P.0., Sydney. There is no limit
to the number of entries that may be sent
by an individual writer, and entries are free.
The winners will be announced in The
Bulletin issue of December 14, if the judg-
ing can be completed by that date.
A Satchel of Books
Trunk Call, by J. Jefferson Farjeon
(Crime Club; 7s. 6d.), opens with the mysti-
fication of the novelist-hero, who hears his
empty London home being rung up from
Torquay, where he is holiday-making. His
suspicions are aroused, and the nice girl
with whom he has struck up an acquaint-
ance in the hotel lounge is inexplicably per-
turbed. Now try to reason out why the
dead man was found with two thousand
pounds tucked away in one of his pockets,
and if your brain is in the Einstein class
you may bring it off. The style is light and
colloquial, and there is a wedding at the
finish.
Maurice Walsh wrote a best-seller in “The
Small Dark Man.” He may well have done
it again in Blackcock’s Feather (Chambers;
7s. 6d.). The hero is David Gordon, a Scot
of the Elizabethan era, who, though no
Ronald Colman as regards looks, is an
adept at claymore-swinging, dirking, sword-
play and s'milar manly exercises. Eithme is
the Irish bride who is won by his prowess.
He has every virtue but modesty.
My blade leaped in one clean shoulder-driven
lunge—through open mouth and through spine. The
guard jarred against his teeth. He fell backwards.
I recovered blade with a single wrench, and swung
on the O'Flaherty men.
“Who dies now?”
No one made the smallest move. It was all over.
There you have David’s flamboyant style,
and if you can stand a lot of it you will like
the book.
Bully Hayes, by A. T. Saunders (“Sunday
Times” Publishing Co., Perth; Is.). A bio-
graphy of the eminent barrator, bigamist,
blackbirder and pirate, supported by docu-
mentary evidence of his misdeeds from con-
temporary newspapers and other sources.
Henry Parkes’s “Empire” referred to him in
1860, when he was 32, as “one of the most
systematic and unmitigated scoundrels the
colony had ever had the fortune to be
possessed of,” and that reputation clung to
him till he was murdered by a Dutch sea-
cook 17 years later. The interesting and
valuable material from which the biography
has been compiled is to be given to the
Mitchell Library.
Policing the Plains, by R. G. Macbeth
(Mus’son; Robertson and Mullens; 10s. 6d.).
This purports to be the true story of the
famous Royal North-West Mounted Police of
Canada, but it is written much in the manner
of a Wild West film. A Canadian policeman
never rides a horse —he bestrides a gallant
steed. He exercises benevolent diplomacy
towards the Indians and handles the bad men
of every race and description in masterly style.
The impression gained is that the Force is
recruited exclusively from the younger sons
of archangels, but, apart from this romantic
bias of the writer, it is an interesting and
varied chronicle, probably as interesting and
varied as the yet unsung chronicle of our
own Northern Territory, North Westralian
and Bananaland cops.
Things Every Dog-owner Should Enow,
by Major A..J. Dawson (Philip Allan ; 3s.
Od.). This book by a famous judge of dogs,
is intended primarily for British consump-
tion, but when he talks about the best .kind
of dog to buy, and how to go about it, any-
one can follow him. He offers other advice
which is equally valuable. -
You . may have noticed that there are people who
have a way of offering their hands to a strange
dog as though tauntingly daring him to bite ; or,
again, as though proffering a poisoned bait. There
are other effusive spirits who approach a dog for
the first time as though in the midst of intimate
romps with the playmate of a lifetime. Avoid all
such vulgarities and gauchcries.
Exactly. They are the pests who' get bitten,
and use the occurrence as a peg on which
to hang uninformed abuse of all dogs. The
book lias some attractive photographs and
tin appendix on dog-breeding.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
- ~ and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted:
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
M.G.L.: Has the virtue of directness; but
bumps heavily in places... .R.E.S.: That sort of
thing eats too much space for this crowded rag.
.... Heresone: With a little more polish and fewer
expressions like “comrades true” you might pass
the gate... .8.A.C.: Can’t see any market for that
string of labored obscurities L.D.S.: You do no
better with the penguins than the seals... .W.J.H.:
They missed by very little... .E.P.M.: The ending
stuck out a mile. J.L.F.: Fair plot, but clumsily
unfolded.... J.B. W.: No improvement.... J.L.: It’s
been done to death... .W.J.S.: Twice as long as we
want them... .N.W.: Can’t capitalise your nightmares
here... .K.M.C.: Only the scaffolding of a yarn—.
J.H.L.: Dreary... .A.H.E.H.: Try it on one of the
travel magazines... .G.E.G.: Not worth a copper.
V.W.: Began promisingly ; finished tamely... .A. 8.:
Scarcely in our line... ,E.M.: Too incredible....
D.J.P.: Among the lightweights... .W.R.: Main
characters don’t come sufficiently into the picture.
.. . .I.G. : Sam was a washout... ,J.A.: Conventional
variation of an old p10t... .W.H.S.: A crude thriller.
.L.8.: Forced humor, and the handwriting is
atrocious.... E.H. : Not interested in spook yarns.
....E.H.T.: , Sensational nonsense... .C.S.: Too like
a matter-of-fact newspaper report...-K.G.S.: Wc
only require that royalty shall not be claimed in
respect of any entry that may be chosen eventually
as the National Song... .E. 8.: But a bell doesn’t
“gaily toll” a “nuptial p®an.” And there are other
crudities... .Edwin T.: Sweet, but thin... .E.R.: The
rhyming scheme is the wildest for a month. Still,
it matches the theme R.V.: Your city sounds
about 1 carat real....Le Vieux: A catalogue of
obvious things.... Honor Y.: Nothing easier. Get
lost on Kosciusko. Of course it’s merely another
example of utter insincerity... .F.J.8.: Too long even
if printed in parts; and inclined to be doleful.—
J.E.8.: Not up. And the stronger demand at present
is for a shorter yarn.... P.F.R.: Glad to welcome
you back. But don’t like this one... .V.L.: You
don’t make us believe a word of it.... George M.:
Improved; but it is still trivial.—Gwen S.: Can’t
swallow it; there are improbabilities at every step.
.... Bellerive: And now' we’ll give them a little bit
of natural history :
RECOLLECTIONS OF OUTBACK.—-A COMBAT.
A formidable wasp--
Made a furious attack
Upon a big spider,
Venemous and black.
In agony the -spider
Writhed to the sting
Of the merciless wasp
Which did fiercely cling.
Into the sunlight
The winged viper did glide.
As the vanquished spider
Stiffened out and died.
.... Honor Y.: Nearly. Has good pictorial quality.
....Thomas M.: You see things, but you’ll have to
wear out a few pens before you get them on paper.
S.C.R.: Sorry, we can’t organise the means ;
we can only suggest them. But we are much obliged
for your interest... .Norman W.: Old stuff and hard
reading... .X.R.N.: Melodramatic and hopejess....
D. J.C.: Lame... .L.E.P.: Not this time; but glad
if you’ll try us with something else M.L.C.: Too
staccato... .J.M.H.: Very nearly a very neat thing,
with an attractive hint of undertones... .Wilga: No,
no, it’s not a candid opinion she seeks. She wants it
candied... .E.M.W.: Another of those autumn
funerals—“when whirling leaves fall from the song-
less trees,” and so 0n.... J.D.H.: Yes, it sounds
spontaneous; but why it should bo called verse we
don’t know... .C.8.C.: It’s a long way to Tipperary.
.... Geoffrey P.: Little things of that sort must be
technically just right; and the linger-singer rhyme
isn’t... .Evan G.: You seem to have some of the
real thing; but this essaj- is too long for its matter.
. ...Z.E.: Pretentious nothings.... Gwen D.: Tinkly
dittoes... .R.M.8.: Neatly done; but such an old
conclusion.... Rod M.: Good idea, but doesn’t read
quite right. And it is hard to believe they would
leave a man to kill himself that way....R.5.: No
pedestal for Belinda here M.S.: Just a sluggish
flow of words 8.5. G.: Both off our beat... .C.Z.:
You digress too much... .E.D.: Forced humor....
L.A.S.: Confused where it isn’t commonplace....
J. : Not your lucky day W. 8.: Well enough
written, but can’t swallow the unexplained spook
incident... .C.R.L.: Don’t like fiction in that form.
. ...S.H.: Some fun in it, but not enough... .J.W.:
Underweight... .R.F.: Hackneyed melodrama....
0.W.J.8.: Both miss. Better if you typed your
stuff W.L.: Too incredible H.F.W.: Might
suit a Sunday paper’s fiction supplement. .. .J.G.H.:
No g00d... .L.P.W.: Why send it back unaltered?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.E.M.: Removed to the Chamber of Horrors and
hung on the line... .8.W.: Figures are all lopsided,
and badly arranged at that E.N.A.: Get brighter
gags..,. K.L.: Worn-out wheezes and down-at-heel
drawings... .F.R.D.: You must admire “Ballyhoo.”
... .A.M.L.: Not buying what you have to sell if
that’s your best... .A.P.: Lacks vitality R.V.:
Cluttered up with freakish designs and weird
flourishes... .M.A.M.: Slick linework but puerile
joke S.L.: Came a cropper... .T.W.: Calls for a
lot of redrawing. . . .C.N.: Too angular.. . .J.J.11.:
You haven’t grasped the first principles .V.R.: At
least you are helping some artists’ supply house....
C. 8.: Streaky wash and indefinite figures....
K. : Draw it with a gardening-fork dipped in
sump-oil? .W.S.M.: Idea too involved for a car-
toon A.T.: Reproduced, it would merely confuse
the eye... .H.F.: Meaningless gag and blurred sketch.
. ...C.H.W.: Too much - niggly detail J.D.: Imi-
tative.. ..P.A.S.: Save it up for the next under-
taker you meet... .F.J.M.: That sort of stuff is too
often camouflage for lack of knowledge. —8.5.: On
the blacklist of Scotch jokes... .C.8.D.: You have a
slovenly style J.S.: You’ll be a long time finding
an appreciative editor... .W.R.: One of George
Wallace’s... .R.M.: You must often play truant from
the life class F.D.: Get more familiar with the
human form. There are whips of opportunities....
R.W.8.: Infantile... .D.A.K.: Not up to the mark
yet....E.T.: Chopped up, it might come in handy
for confetti... .R.C.: Stiff H.G.: Insignificant
R.R.: Dreadful E.R.A.H.: From the samples sub-
mitted, would say no R.H.: The butcher is par-
ticularly poor.


d
mm
SSmm
■
m
m 1
sy
.>■
i
m* i
■■
mmmi
i
■V :
J
M
...
' ' ■
s;
■
:
■
1 m
j
t*Lj '
m
m
m
Kf
ill
■M
fPKJ
■
I*
&:■
*mmmm
m
■l*® 1
if
i ■
-
. I
1
!
■
4,
A
■
■
m
ft
i
■
A
ML# ...Jk
. ¥--3
.
mm
.
~
m
m
m
■■ m.
mm :
m
-ai'Sw&ka
at


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 2748.
October 12, 1932.
THE PILGRIM’S PROGRESS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; >Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
I months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
( months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for hoz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
WHAT THE CONVERSION
LOAN MEANS.
There is much rejoicing over the conver-
sion of the N. S. Wales 5f p.c. loan of 13
millions into a five-year 3i p.c. loan issued
at 974 p.c. Allowing for repayment at par
on maturity, the purchaser will get a little
■ more than £4 Is. p.c. The saving to the
State will not, however, amount to the full
difference between £4 Is. and £5 15s. be-
cause of the expenses of underwriting and
flotation. But our chief cause for rejoicing
is not that we have actually saved in the
neighborhood of 1 p.c., • but that we were
able to shake off a Government under whose
mad rule London was actually requiring an
effective return of Bj* p.c. from our public
securities.
While there is cause for rejoicing there is
also room for very serious reflection. What
does this low rate and this five-year cur-
rency mean? The cables have told us that
the loan on the terms offered will appeal
to a class of operator quite different from
that which has hitherto been the chief
purchaser of our stocks. For very m,any
.years the great lending nations, Britain
chief among them, sought out long-term
investments—investments which would not
have to be disturbed for a lifetime, if
ever. Trustees in particular sought these
outlets. They wanted a given annual
sum sure: they put safety first, and in
return were willing to renounce all hope of
capital accretions or increased returns.
Then came the war, and with it many
changes in the positions of both creditor
and debtor nations. It was anticipated that
there would have to be a great clearing-up
afterwards. But the war had taught the
world new lessons in the creation of credit,
and helped by these it plunged into extrava-
gances such as it had never known before.
The inevitable crisis came with the crash
of the United States share-market boom
of 1927-29; and Capital sat amid the ruins
to do some further hard thinking.
Down to the war years the modem world
had been getting along placidly on curren-
cies having for the most part a gold basis.
Any man almost anywhere knew what his
money was worth in the currency of any
other country; and there was neither profit
nor loss in the actual transfer. The post-
war inflation in Europe changed all that.
The German mark lost practically all its
value; the French franc was stabilised at
about one-third of its old value. After that
capital wanted to be in a position to fly
at the faintest suggestion of inflation. A
great part of the foreign investments in
European countries had been in Govern-
ment stocks. As people saw the value of
these evaporate, along with the values of
mortgages and bank deposits, they turned to
shares in companies whose capital was
represented by physical assets; and mainly
to that the American share-exchange boom
was due. The nervousness of capital,
accompanied by huge shipments of gold
out of Europe to the U.S.A.. was followed
by. the raising of the rates of interest in
Britain and elsewhere—the course naturally
taken to check an outward flow of capital.
This had an effect of its own. Stocks of
commodities are practically always financed
with borrowed money; and at that moment
most stocks were heavy. The raising of the
interest rate forced these on the market;
and thus began that terrible fall in the
prices of raw products which heralded the
world-crisis. This fall presently reacted on
the American share-exchange boom. Enor-
mous dealings had been put through on
margin; that is to say, the buyers had
backed a further rise. When, instead, the
market began to slip, there was an aval-
anche of selling orders, and shares lost 50
p.c. of their value in a few weeks.
Capital, besides learning to dread infla-
tion, had thus learned to mistrust two
things: first, Government stock, whose
value might entirely disappear; second,
ordinary share-market investments, the
most apparently solid of which might lose
half their value before a sale could be made.
Out of this series of misfortunes emerged
the popularity of the short-term invest-
ment. The controllers of capital no longer
looked for a security in which they might
leave their money undisturbed for 20, 30,
50 years; they looked for something upon
which they might realise almost at a
moment’s notice, dispatching the proceeds,
if necessary, to some other country. Hence
in New York and London money nominally
at call has been available for some time
past at the rate of. 4 p.c. per annum. It
was to such a market that the Common-
wealth Government appealed last week for
the conversion of the N. S. Wales 13 millions.
That underwriting could be got in large
amounts for a five-year loan shows that
capital has lost a little of its nervousness:
it may not yet be willing to again con-
sider long-term investments except at a
speculative price, but at least it is prepared
to make compromises. In this there is
more than a suggestion of returning confi-
dence—as, of course, there was also in the
complete success of Britain’s own recent
colossal conversion.
But while there is a very material saving
in a 3 ( p.c. loan issued even at 974, and
while it is very gratifying and all that to
be told the issue will probably go beyond
par, and while it is very cheering to be
assured that there is a good chance of other
conversion loans at similar rates, all these
things have implications which are not so
comforting. Low interest rates mean low
prices; and in the acceptance of 34 or even
4 p.c. for five years there is a strong sug-
gestion that these investors at any rate do
not look for any spectacular rise in prices.
In the year before the Great War the
average interest carried by Australian State
loans was £3 11s. lid. p.c. And the index
numbers show that average prices of com-
modities were at that time only 60 p.c. of
the average of the three years 1926-27-28.
But if the acceptance of 3i or 4 p.c. for
five years means that,, in the opinion of
these investors, the world is not going to
have a return of high prices, we still have
some reason to hope that the prices in
which we are most interested may recover
more than some others. Taking 1927 as a
base (= 100), British wholesale prices at
the end of September stood at 64, having
recovered from the record low figure of
58.8 for June of this year. But, though
cereals and meat stood at the end of the
month at 66.6, textiles (which include wool)
were still no higher than 52.4.
While we may thus hope for a further
recovery in wool, we shall be very foolish
if we neglect the warning conveyed by this
loan that a return to the general prices of
1926-27-28 is not to be depended on. Inter-
national action may be tried—a world eco-
nomic conference is on the programme—but
obviously those who control capital in what
is still the world’s chief money market are
not confident of great results. If they are
right, then- there is only one thing for us
to do—to further reduce our costs of pro-
duction. And that means in the first place
a great cut in public expenditure and tax-
ation, and in the second place a severe
writing down of capital values. These
things are not going to be pleasant; but
as a community we shall not be a farthing
worse off when they are done. And we
shall have this, further, for our consolation:
there were years of great prosperity and
happiness before the war. Ten years hence
we may decide that, on balance, high
prices brought us neither.
CUTTING OUR COAT.
Twenty years ago the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s revenue was £4 9s. lid. per head
of population, and it was sufficient for all
services. In 1928-29 it had reached £l2
9s. 3d. per head, and it was not sufficient;
there was a deficiency that year of over two
millions. Twenty years ago the total Com-
monwealth expenditure out of consolidated
revenue was £14,299,599; in 1928-29 it was
£68,217,245. Certainly there had been a
war; but the cost of departments alone had
gone from £14,724,097 in 1911-12 to
£34,897,185 in 1928-29. And the States,
which had not to bear one farthing of war
expenditure, did worse. In 1911-12 total
expenditure out of consolidated revenue was
£40.858581; in 1928-29 it was £120,925,565.
Putting the two together, Commonwealth
and State, we get this:—
1911-12 ■ .. £55,158,180
1928-29 .. 189,142,810
That is to say, for every £1 that was spent
in 1911-12 the two lots of Governments
spent just upon £3 10s, in 1928-29. Mean-
time, apart altogether from Common-
wealth borrowings, which had been mainly
for war purposes, the debt had gone
from 277 millions to 726 millions. In all
the years of Australia prior to 1912 we had
borrowed 277 millions; in the few years
between 1912 and 1929 we borrowed 349
millions. Not a penny of that was for war
purposes; the Commonwealth debt of 377
millions is quite apart from that. True,
population had increased. But per head the
State expenditure out of revenue wag only
£8 18s. lOd. in 1911-12, and it was £l9 2s. sd.
in 1928-29; the Commonwealth expenditure
had gone from £3 4s. 6d. per head to £l2
16s. 9d.—and it had been more.
Of all costs those for what are called
social services have grown the most rapidly.
In 1911-12, only 20 years ago, the cost of
invalid and old-age pensions was £2,143,212;
in 1928-29 it was £9,991,299. Most other
outgoings were checked when the depression
hit us; the outlay on pensions moved
ahead still faster, and, though the maximum
grant had been reduced from 20s. to 17s. 6d.
per week, the actual expenditure last year
was £11,126,000. In the first 10 years of
the Act an average of 5428 new pensioners
were added per annum. The average added
during the last three years has been 17,022
per annum. And the money spent on old-
age and invalid pensions is only, part of the
o”+Lv on social services. In 1928-29
N. S. Wales was spending £1 4s. 9d. per
head of population on State social services,
three times as much as any other except
Queensland (11s. 4d. per head); in 1931-32
it spent £3 11s. 6d. per head—the total
went from £3,024,995 to £9,003,471. All
this is exclusive of the cost of the mainten-
ance of hospitals, general and mental.
In 1901 our State system of education
cost us £1,816,296. In 1912 the total had
reached £3,098,430. Sixteen years later it
was £9,547,538. Per head the cost had
gone from £6 4s. lid. in 1912 to £l2 9s. 9d.
in 1928. Indeed, there is hardly a
department which does not yield similar
or more startling figures at some point or
other. Turn to the railways. In 1911-12
the working expenses per train-mile run
were 54.07 d. In 1929 they were 129.65 d.
The Commonwealth Parliament cost
£189,550 in 1911-12; in 1928-29, £557,245.
Salaries, contingencies, etc., in the Prime
Minister’s Department cost £4447 in
1911-12; by 1928-29, £62,940.
Now, it would be misleading and absurd
not to allow for the change in the value of
money during the period covered by these
comparisons. If 1911 is taken as the base
year, then commodities that cost £lOO on
the average in the Sydney and Melbourne
wholesale markets in that 12-month cost
£179 in 1928 and £lBO in 1929. In two of the
intervening years, 1919 and 1920, the value
of money was actually less than half of
what it was in 1911. At their highest
Australian staple exports much more than
doubled in value per pound or per bushel
or per ton. Over the whole 13 years from
1917 to 1929 their average value was 89 p.c.
better than it was in 1911; in the two years
1923-24 and 1924-25 it was 125 p.c. better.
All this was reflected, of course, in the cost
of living. In the six State capitals 365. 6d.
in 1929 was worth no more than 20s. in 1911.
In effect, all this means that it was as
easy for the average Australian to pay 355.
or thereabouts in taxes and other Govern-
ment charges during the 10 years after the
war as it was to pay 20s, in 1911-12; and
an increase of anything up to 80 or 90 p.c.
in Government costs was fair and reason-
able. But something else has happened
now. So far as the bulk of our exports
are concerned, not even the 1911 values are
at present reached. Wool and wheat that
were worth £lOO in 1911 were worth only
£B6 in June. We have thus got back to the
point at which we cannot pay, without
hardship, more in taxes and other charges
than we did in 1911; and expenditure will
have to be adjusted accordingly. We have
got to realise that most of the tremendous
rises in salaries, wages, pensions, etc., in
the 10 years following the war were 'utterly
misleading; they were not really rises at
all—they were in the main only adjustments
to a new value of money. Without that
change in the value of money they could
never have been paid; and it is equally
impossible to maintain them when things
resume their old level, as they have done
for the most part.
But besides making those adjustments we
shall have to consider those increases in
expenditure which were in excess of what
the change in money-value justified. There
were many of them. In our altered circum-
stances every one of these must be called
upon to justify itself.
BACK TO JOCK MACKENZIE.
W hen Maoriland again has money to spare
for ornaments it ought to erect a large
statue of Jock Mackenzie and his plough.
The Scottish farm-laborer who revolution-
ised the country’s ideas of land settlement
believed firmly that in a multitude of small
agricultural holdings lay a colony’s surest
foundation of prosperity, and in recent
trying times his notion has proved its sound-
ness. Maoriland’s receipts from the ex-
ports of wool, that averaged 15 millions a
year in the six years preceding the slump,
fell to millions in the latest season; but
dairy produce, thanks to steadily increas-
ing production and a greater stability of
value, showed but little diminution, and
it is this feature in an otherwise gloomy-
looking situation that is enabling the
Dominion to pay its heavy overseas inter-
est bill and still show a margin of profit
in the foreign trading account. This circum-
stance makes it inevitable that in seeking
a remedy for lack of employment the
Government should turn to the land.
In the forty years that have elapsed
since the Mackenzie recipe was first applied,
its principles have been considerably
diluted. It was customary as long ago as
the first years of Massey’s administration
for Ministers to declare that settlement was
finished; that all the land worth taking up
was occupied. That theory was shaken
by the remarkable results obtained by an
ironmonger at Hamilton who stumped his
district selling separators and inducing
farmers to co-operate in the establishment
of dairy factories. When William Good-
fellow commenced that crusade, in 1912,
the Dominion’s dairy exports averaged in
value £3,000,000 a year. Nine years later
they were worth over £19,000,000, and, in
the Auckland and Taranaki provinces
especially, the number of settlers had been
increased beyond all expectations. Now,
though the Government’s resources are
severely cramped, it has been found possible
to produce £1,330,000 for land development
and settlement, and £560,000 for railways
giving access to farm land, in the current
financial year. Half a million of this will go
to a small-farms settlement plan to relieve
unemployment, the lines of which are pure
Mackenzie.
Fo do this it lias been found necessary
to practise economy in government. The
railways are no longer leaning very heavily
on the Consolidated Fund. The much-criti-
cised hydro-electric schemes, despite acci-
dents and blunders, are on the credit side
of the ledger, The post and telegraph services
have been profitable for years, and they are
continuing that way, and the services
which the various revenue-earning (or sup-
posed to be revenue-earning) departments
render are estimated to bring a million
and a half into the public purse this year,
If land settlement and development plans
were cut out, the budget could be balanced
this year, but that would involve using the
relatively heavy unemployment taxation
(M.L. taxes wages and other incomes Is.
in the £) without much permanent benefit
to the country. Maoriland’s example is
one that can be commended to Australian
Governments, especially N. S. Wales, which
has more dairying-land waiting to be made
fit for occupation on the North Coast and
elsewhere than the whole of the island
Dominion can boast.
WE ARE GOING DOWNHILL AGAIN.
Mr. Fenton has felt obliged to leave the
Federal Ministry because he dreads, as
The Bulletin also does, that the Govern-
ment’s policy of opening the door a little
wider to imports is going to land us in
trouble. All the world has been telling us
of the great recovery we made, and last
week the British investor, whose goodwill
it is so desirable that we should cultivate,
joined the chorus in something better than
words. It is true that the emphatic man-
ner in which first the Australian Govern-
ment and then the N. S. Wales people dealt
with Mr. Lang had much to do with that
demonstration; but there had to be some-
thing beyond that. What has counted for
more than everything else with the over-
seas investor has been our proved capacity
and determination to pay him his interest;
whether we prefer Mr. Lang or Mr. Stevens
is a matter which only concerns him so
far as it affects that capacity and that
determination.
For many years we had been paying
overseas interest with new loans. When
new loans stopped, either we had to default
or the interest had to be paid out of the
surplus of exports over imports. To the
lasting credit of the Scullin Government it
determined that our contracts should be
honored; it resolved to put such an em-
bargo on imports that exports would show
a surplus sufficient for the purpose. The
result was entirely satisfactory. From 1924-
25 inclusive there had been for five years
an excess of imports over exports, although
in order to pay our overseas interest and
other debts we should have had an annual
surplus of exports of about 28 millions.
In those five years we went into debt
not only for about 140 millions of interest
but for about 40 millions of goods as well.
And that, it must be remembered, was in
times of high prices for our export staples.
Nothing short of the Scullin tariff could
have saved us then from becoming a com-
plete wreck. We had to change an excess
of imports of 6 millions in 1929-30 into a
surplus of exports of about 30 millions in
the face of a smashing fall in every market.
In the first year this prodigious thing was
not quite accomplished; we did, however,
show 15 millions sterling to the good on mer-
chandise alone, and the required balance
we made up with gold shipments. The fol-
lowing year—to June 30, 1932 —there was
a surplus on merchandise of 31 millions;
including the gold production of the year,
there was a surplus of 34 millions. That
left 7 millions after paying interest on
public debt; possibly 4 millions after meet-
ing all commitments, public and private.
On figures only one other debtor country
in the world put up so good a record, and
that was Germany. The success of the N. S.
Wales conversion loan last week is part of
our reward.
As we have seen, there was a surplus of
about 4 millions for the past year after
meeting all our overseas commitments; and
4 millions is a very narrow margin. It is
true that the markets for our staples were
still very depressed; it is true that they
have since improved a little. But as
against that is to be set the fact that our
wool clip and our wheat harvest and our
butter output in the last two years have
been quite phenomenal: the wheat harvest
in 1930-31. for instance, was 212 million
bushels, as against 126 millions in 1929-30
and an average of 136 millions in the five
years prior to 1930. It may be that some
of the prohibitions and embargoes bore
more or less heavily upon the man on the
land. But if he cannot ipcrease his pro-
duction to counterbalance the increase of
imports due to the slackening of the pro-
hibitions, etc., then, in view of the narrow
margin shown by last year’s figures, the
policy we are pursuing is most dangerous.
Our trade figures sound the alarm. _ In
June imports were £4,275,838 as against
£3,222,328 a year previously; in July
£4,642,100 as against £3,130,251. Thus in two
months our imports were £2,565.359 more
than for the corresponding months of last
year; and our exports were 1e55—£2,142,000
less of merchandise and substantially less
also of gold. The complete August figures
are not available; but the drift was un-
doubtedly in the same direction: N. S.
Wales imDorted £2,329,589 worth, an increase
of £544.833 on August, 1931. There is only
one end to this sort of thing; and, after the
splendid performance we - put up in 1930
arid 1931 and the early part of 1932, it is
not pleasant to contemplate.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
State Loans and the Commonwealth.
Earle Page may at least be given full credit
for the creation of the Loan Council. At
the beginning—in 1923 —it was little more
than a consultative body, consisting of the
Treasurers of the Commonwealth and the
States, the object being to prevent cut-
throat competition due to clashing in the
raising of loans. From the outset it did
its job in a businesslike way; and at the
first meeting, in February, 1924, it agreed
upon a 12 months’ schedule, which included
the terms to be offered by each State and
the amounts to be raised. The next step,
taken in 1925, placed in the hands of the
Commonwealth the entire responsibility for
the flotation of loans. That policy was put
into operation later in the year, when 20
millions were raised in London and New
York. After that undoubtedly the new
borrowing instrument was abused: the sight
of means to do ill deeds made ill deeds
done.
When the States federated they had to
forego the' right which they had all freely
exercised to levy Customs duties; hence
assistance had to be given them, and the
arrangement lasted for 10 years. In 1910
the Commonwealth Surplus Revenue Act
was passed, making the States a subsidy of
255. per capita, with special concessions to
Tasmania and Westralia. The provisions
of this Act, limited originally to 10 years,
were kept alive till 1927, when the State
Grants Act was passed repealing the per
capita payments under the Surplus Revenue
Act of 1910. In its place came the Financial
Agreement Act of 1928, which provided for
these three contributions: £7.584,912 per
annum for 58 years towards the interest
charges, on the debts of the States as at
July 1, 1929; 2s. 6d. p.c. p.a v to a sinking
fund to extinguish the debts in 58 years; ss.
p.c. p.a. to a sinking fund to extinguish in
53 years from dates of issue all future debts.
Further, the Commonwealth took over as
from July 1, 1929, tile balance then unpaid
of the State debts existing on June 30,
1927, and also loans raised between that
date and June 30, 1929, by the Common-
wealth on behalf of the States. From this
date (July 1, 1929) it assumed “as be-
tween the Commonwealth and the States
the liabilities of the States to the bond-
holders.” It is due to Earle Page to say
that he is entitled to the full credit for that
measure also—including the sinking fund.
Shortly after this the depression hit Aus-
tralia, and Mr. Lang was soon in power in
N. S. Wales. The position was difficult,
and Mr. Lang, being Mr. Lang, proceeded
to get out of it, if he could, by repudiation
and default. The Commonwealth then
found that it had done either too much or
•too little. It had made itself responsible
in a vague sort of way for the public debts
of the States; and it-saw that failure to
honor those debts would unquestionably
have the most disastrous effect upon its
credit. In view, however, of the doubts ex-
pressed as to whether the Commonwealth
was directly liable to the bondholders, the
Government (Lyons had by this time
reached office) decided to unmistakably
assume a direct liability. This was done
in the Financial Agreements (Common-
wealth Liability) Act, Further legislation
gave the Commonwealth power to recover
from the States. It was when Mr. Lang
set out to defy this law that the patience
of the Governor of N. S. Wales ran out,
and the Premier was dismissed.
And that, being the position to-day, ex-
plains how it comes about that the Com-
monwealth Government floated the N. S.
Wales loan in London. The credit of all
Australia is now behind every loan of every
State; which undoubtedly accounts for the
vast success of last week’s conversion.
: «
Plain Facts About Pensions.
The Bulletin has received letters from old-
age pensioners reproaching it with having
supported the reduction of their pension
rate. It has not viewed such a reduction
with any pleasure; on the contrary, it
would be delighted if Australia could con-
tinue to distribute among the old and the
invalid poor nearly a million a month,
notwithstanding the fall in the cost
of living. But Australia must adjust its
expenditure to its straitened means. If the
national Government fails in this unpopu-
lar duty, it may be reduced (as Mr. Scul-
lin’s Government nearly was) to the position
of having to notify all those with claims
against it—pensioners, as well as civil ser-
vants—that it can pay them only 10s. or
12s. in the pound.
The general situation is still very serious.
Indeed, the tax-revenue position is really
worse than it was in the first and second
years of the depression. Then most
graziers and many wheat-farmers were
paying taxes calculated on yffiat they earned
before their markets collapsed, or before
the collapse became complete. In other
days they contributed 40 to 50 p.c. of the
income-tax revenue; this year they will pay
practically nothing, and a large proportion
of graziers will have to be struck off the
land-tax list. Moreover; hundreds of com-
panies in general business have ceased to
pay dividends; scores have published bal-
ance-sheets so alarming as to render it
doubtful whether they can stand another
12 or 18 months like the last. The Com-
monwealth Government, which is respon-
sible for the pensions, has imposed every
tax it can think of and left no section
untouched. From an income tax rising
to 9s. 6d. in the £ it expects to get no
more than £10,000,000 this year; and if
the 1931-32 expenditure on old-age and
invalid pensions is maintained, they alone
will cost £11,126,000. The Government
closed the year with a nominal surplus of
£1,314,091, but if the Hoover moratorium
had not operated—and it may not be con-
tinued—“there would,” its Treasurer says,
“have been a deficit of £4,600,000.” And
that amount would have been doubled had
the season not been quite , exceptional.
The Treasurer reports, notwithstanding all
these favorable circumstances, that during
the twelvemonth the public debt was in-
creased from £388,718,000 to £398,884,000
“by the issue of short-term Treasury bills
to the banks.” Ministers’ salaries were
reduced 25 p.c.; members’ salaries 20 p.c.,
and civil-service salaries the same (more
in cases), and they are being cut again.
And military and naval expenditure has
been hacked regardless of developments in
eastern Europe and eastern Asia, with the
result that the defences have been weak-
ened, perhaps dangerously.
Yielding to appeals, the Government has
announced that the maximum rate of pen-
sion will remain at 17s. 6d. a week, and
that 80 p.c. of the pensioners will get it.
It is to be hoped they will; and if the
Government can save the amount which
the payment of the extra half-crown
involves by combing out those pensioners
who ought to be supported partly or
wholly by well-to-do or fairly well-to-do
children, it will be a satisfactory way out
of a most unpleasant situation. But it
would be foolish to regard it as a per-
manent settlement. , Only a miracle can
save us from still having to make large
savings in our expenditure somewhere,
somehow.
— : ♦ — :
A Challenge to Capitalism.
Said our W. M. Hughes at the League of
Nations’ Assembly at Geneva:—
Trade is stagnant and bankruptcy faces many
nations. Revolutions and civil turmoil are rampant.
Communism is ceaselessly active. Only when people
are employed under decent conditions will the gospel
of Bolshevism fall on deaf cars.
But, though we curse Governments and
declare that they are responsible for most
of our troubles, we go on leaving it all to
them. And then for the most part nothing
is done because Governments are not organ-
ised to do jobs of this kind.
Some months ago a Melbourne firm
acquired the Wolgan Valley shale deposits
in N. S. Wales with the Newnes retorting
plant alongside. It is now announced that,
so far, its efforts to secure the necessaiy
capital have failed; and at the moment the
chances are that the industry will again
be put on the shelf, where it has been
gathering dust for many years. Yet what
are the facts? On the one hand we have
been driven to take extraordinary measures
to reduce our imports so that our surplus
of exports may pay our debts abroad and
save us from default and bankruptcy. On
the other hand, though we have what are
known to be the richest oil shales in the
world, and though they are believed to be
in great quantity, and though the working
of them would provide employment for
many of those men whose unemployment
threatens us with Bolshevism, we continue
to import practically all of our very large
requirements of power-spirit and lubricating
oils.
Had these deposits and the chances of
profitably operating them been thoroughly
inquired into, and had an adverse report
been made, not a word could be said in
blame of those with capital at command
in Australia. But there has been no such
investigation. It is quite true that a great
deal of money was spent many years ago
on these deposits and that work was aban-
doned. What looks like a complete answer
can, however, be made to the charge that
that was conclusive. The bulk of the
money was wasted and we knew it .was
being wasted; the whole business of the
Commonwealth Oil Corporation was part
farce and part tragedy. It may be that the
entire problem should be attacked as though
nothing at all had ever been done—as
though these were virgin deposits. What is
absolutely indispensable is that an attack
should be made—that their possibilities
should be explored.. And the people with
command of capital must do it. If they
stand by, resolutely idle, nothing is surer
than that the argument for nationalisation
—for Communism—will be strengthened m
very many minds. Thoughtful men are
realising that this is the position every-
where. What is happening in Russia is a
challenge to the capitalists of the world;
and it is folly to disregard it. If we are
in great need of certain supplies—motor-
spirit and oil in this case —and if there
are deposits known to be rich in spirit and
oil at hand, and if their exploitation would
furnish the work which our unemployed
want, then let us be quite sure of this: if
Private Enterprise will not at least prove
that the proposition is hopeless, then we
shall convince thousands of waverers that
State capitalism must be called in. And
that, of course, is the Russian system.
Hoover and Uncle Sam.
In appealing for another, term at the White
House, President Hoover, like another who
went.before him, warns the U.S.A. against
swapping horses while crossing a stream.
Last winter, he says, they barely escaped
having to abandon gold. “Never was our
nation in greater peril,” he declares. The
Secretary of the Treasury’s estimate was
that they, could not last more than two
weeks “unless we could put into effect a
remedy.” Occurrences “foreboded moral and
social chaos, with years of conflict and
derangement”; but, of course, “Republican
coolheadedness, which rejected every
counsel of weakness and cowardice,” pulled
the nation through. .
The American business man is an opti-
mist by training. For over two years his
guides and teachers had been assuring him
that no harm could possibly befall the
U.S.A. The country was told and believed
that never was it so impregnable, and its
huge holding of gold was quoted in proof.
Again and again it was shown by rafts
of figures that bottom had been touched
and that business was on the mend. In
September, however, the country began to
realise that things were not going according
to schedule, and a wave of despair began
to gather. The pessimist foresees trouble,
and is more or less prepared for it; to the
optimist disillusion comes as a shock. It
can be left for the future to decide whether
the nation came through the next few
months with credit. From the outside it
looks as if there was a pretty general feel-
ing that it was a . case of every man for
himself. In October there were no less than
522 bank failures, due mainly to the usual
“runs.” With that went more hoarding
perhaps than the world had ever seen out-
side Asia. .
Gold, which two or three years previously
had poured in, had already for some
months been moving away; and when
Britain left the gold basis in September,
the withdrawal was accelerated. Between
June, 1931, and the end of February, 1932,
there was an increase of 782 million dollars
of currency “in circulation” —most or all of
it hoarded—and a decrease of 602 million
dollars in gold holdings due to exports and
earmarkings. The flow of gold was so
persistent that between September and June
the bullion exports to Europe amounted to
$1,213,000,000.
The Republican Government no doubt
faced a most serious crisis in the first
days of 1932. Confidence, in Hoover’s
phrase, was “frozen.” A bill for the crea-
tion of a Reconstruction Finance Corpora-
tion was promptly put through Congress
“to bolster private credit by a moveable
pool of public credit.” The original capital
was 500 million dollars subscribed by the
U.S. Treasury; and the Federal Reserve
Banks, by buying Government securities,
within four months made 989 millions of
other credit available. It is not true to
say that confidence has been thereby re-
stored. So far back has the pendulum
swung that it is still the fashionable thing
to boast of one’s losses and one’s poverty.
But the withdrawal of gold on European
account has ceased; very large amounts of
hoarded gold are being returned to circula-
tion; and, though there was an increase in
June, only 318 banks failed in the four
months to the end of May. compared with
342 in January and 522 in October.
But the primary producer—the farmer in
particular—is asking what he gets out of it
all. He knows he still can sell his commodi-
ties for only 45 p.c. of the 1926 price, while
for the commodities which he has to buy
he must pay 77 p.c. of the 1926 price. In
Australia the wheat-farmer, faced with
precisely the same difficulty, was able to
win both a Federal bonus and a bonus
through exchange. The American farmer,
unable to get either, has been trying to
compel the cities and towns to give him
more money; but there is no suggestion
that the “strike” has been effective. And
about all that Hoover can promise is that
“any annual payment of foreign debts shall
be used for the specific purpose of securing
an expansion of foreign markets for Ameri-
can agricultural products,” and that his
Government will join in any movement to
put up prices and “promote goodwill and
disarmament.” In the face of a great over-
production of grain, Uncle Sam, it seems,
can offer the farmer just as little as we can.
«
Forestry Bonds.
Professob H. Belshaw, of Auckland (M.L.),
has been telling the local branch of the
Economic Society about the shortcomings
and dangers of the “bond” method of finan-
cing forestry and other speculations. As a
result of investigations he supports most
of the arguments and conclusions which
The Bulletin has put forward during the
past five years. He asks that a Royal
Commission should go into the whole sub-
ject of promotion, finance and control of
these cos., with the object of tightening
the Maoriland Companies Act, and checking
the overcharging of bondholders for land
and services.
A bond-selling co. is “a private company
registered with a comparatively small capi-
tal, but of which the investing public do not
become shareholders. The co. contracts with
each investor that, in consideration of his
paying the prescribed amount in cash, it
will convey to him at the end of the term
a certain area of land duly planted accord-
ing to a prescribed agreement.” Trustees
are appointed to watch over bondholders’
interests; but in many cases the right of
nomination rests with the parent co., and
sometimes this right is perpetual. As a rule,
the bond-selling co. makes profits on
planting operations, and some by less
straightforward means. Professor Belshaw’s
search at the Registrar’s office .revealed
that brokers and landowners were often
prominent, company promoters, and the
same people were equally to the tore in
various capacities on a number of different
concerns.
“A common policy under which directors
unloaded assets at greatly enhanced prices
on to new cos. promoted by themselves,
the inflation of capital and the enormous
and disproportionate profits which might
be made out of promotion,” staggered the
investigator. In one case a co. with a
capital of £350 floated a second co. in
which it received £146,000 of shares, issued
as fully-paid. In another case a concern
had 3000 £5O bonds “underwritten” by a
firm of brokers in Australia. The under-
writing firm, for its various services, re-
ceived or was to receive £l2 10s. per bond,
a fee of £lOOO for the first year, 4000 fully-
paid shares in the bond co., a seat on its
board and a fee of £8 6s. Bd. a month in
respect of each of six State offices. Also
three trustees, at a salary of £2500 each,
were appointed to watch over a handful
of debentures! “Even if an extra digit had
been slipped in by mistake,” the Professor
was compelled to remark, “the remunera-
tion would still be handsome.” And, any-
way, the speculator may get little or no
protection even from his trustees. The
latter can only act within the terms of the
trust deed, and probably not one bond-
holder in a hundred knows what those term?
are.
Neither the professor’s findings nor The
Bulletin’s conclusions brand all bond-
selling cos. as rogues and spendthrifts.
There is, however, so much that is utterly
unsatisfactory about the whole business that
an expert inquiry ought to be made with
a view to appropriate action. Inevitably
tens of thousands of bondholders are
doomed to disappointment; but that is no
reason why steps should not be taken to
reduce the odds against them as much as
possible, and to make similar exploitation
in the future more difficult if not impos-
sible.
>
N.S.W. Graziers.
Dear Bulletin,—To your issue of Sep-
tember 28 Mr. Harold Sims contributed a
statement with regard to the control of the
Graziers’ Association. If you will publish
the following Association Rules, your
readers may ascertain for themselves the
accuracy of Mr. Sims’s statement: —
(26) The state shall be divided by the General
Council into suitable Electorates as mentioned in
the Schedule to these Rules and such Electorates
shall return 43 .Members of General Council in the
manner described ill Rules following.
(34) The Members of General Council elected in
the manner described in the previous Rules shall
immediately after the Annual General Meeting of
Members proceed to elect not more than ten additional
Members. Any of the ten seats not then filled may
be filled by the General Council at any ordinary
meeting.
(39) The General Council shall have power from
time to time to appoint from amongst its members
an Executive Committee, consisting of the President,
Vice-Presidents and Treasurer, ex-officio, and four
other members elected by the General Council: such
Executive Committee shall annually elect its own ■
Chairman, who shall have a casting vote in addition
to his own vote as a member of the Committee,
and three members shall constitute a quorum. . The
Executive Committee shall have all the administra-
tive powers of the General Council, but all questions
of general policy shall be determined as heretofore,
by the General Council, and in the event, of the,
death or the resignation of any Member of the
Executive Committee, or if any Member be . removed,
the vacancy may bo filled by the General Council
on notice being given that it is intended to fill such
vacancy... .*
From the foregoing it will be Seen that the
Executive Committee is elected by and
from the whole of the General Council
and that the Executive Committee has ad-
ministrative functions only, the policy pi
the Association being determined by the
Annual Conferences and the General
Council.—Yours faithfully, J. W. Allen.,
General Secretary.
♦
Raw Reform in V. S. Wales.
From a N. S. Wales country solicitor:—
What with declarations, pleas, rejoinders,
rebutters, surrebutters, surrejoinders, demur-
rers and such-like evasions and anachron-
isms, a litigant in our Supreme Court can
be held up until his patience or his purse
is exhausted. Why cannot all this be re-
placed by n quick and ready system o
bringing the action to trial ? -The simple
vet very fair method of our District Com tr-
ot limited jurisdiction has been a great, boon
to litigants; and. be it said to the honor m.
our Equity Judges, particularly ot that
<>'reat lawyer and public benefactor, .Justice
Harvey, a very great saving of time and
expense has been achieved by the introduc-
tion of the originating summons in that
jurisdiction; but legislation is necessary to
abol’sh technical and verbose pleadings m
ordinary Equity suits.
Then we have that great money-wastei.
counsel’s address. How obviously absurd
it is for a counsel to address for hours and
even davs a Judge acting as a jury when
that Judge has come to a conclusion on
the facts and the demeanor of the witnesses!
Judges compelled to listen to wrangling law-
yers on facts must oftep recall the words
of that wise old Chancellor, Lord Eldon, in
a letter to his daughter: ‘ I am somewhat
tormented by the noise of Lady Gwydir s
Scotchmen playing under my windows upon
the bagpipes; but there is music m that
droning instrument compared to the battle
of lawyers’ tongues.” Many persons when
threatened with actions compromise with
those who have no rightful claim rathe,)
than undergo the delay and expense oi a
lawsuit. A simple form of procedure, some-
what akin to the present District Court
process, with prohibition of long and redun-
dant addresses of counsel on matters of faci
(unless expressly allowed by the presiding
Judge), would go far to stop this vicious
pi'actiee of blackmailers. .
Another matter for consideration w the
proper housing of our Judges; the buildings
thev occupy are obsolete- and nauseous and
a menace to tbe health of all who are com-
pelled to use them.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - - - - 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: IS Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E. 0.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Diamond Engagement Rings
£25
£2O
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made through out, with pu re
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and. repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE.
1 ! 6 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET
POLITICAL
POINTS
After taking a month to consider his posi-
tion, Fenton walked out of the Ministry
last week. He decided that he could not
accept the Ottawa agreement and remain
true to “my pledge to support a full Protec-
tionist tariff”; so the sacrifice is honor-
able to him, especially as he is an elderly
man with a shaky seat. But he is no loss
as an administrator, though by leaving the
man with whom he quitted the Scullin
Cabinet and Caucus he has weakened Lyons’s
position as head of the Government. Lyons
will remain Prime Minister only so long as
Bruce decides that he is needed abroad.
“The last time I saw ’em they vas full of
moth-holes. You’ve mended ’em up
very veil; but have you got rid of
THE MOTHS?"
When Australia really saw the mess it
was in through over-borrowing and over-
buying, it shut down on imports so hard
that the position was righted inside two
years. As soon as that happened Australia
put on its coat and leaned against the old
post as hard as ever. We are only three
months into the new financial year, but it
is safe to say our trade balance is at least
four millions poorer than it was this time
last year; and as we had only about four
millions to the good at the end of last year,
it looks as though we will be borrowing
again to pay interest before this year is
out—unless we take our coat off again and
seriously attend to this business.
Tasmania’s. McPheelees have added an-
other distinction to their record of being the
only Australian Government to survive an
appeal to the people during the three depres-
sion years. They have produced a surplus
for the first three months of 1932-33. It
is only a little one—£ll,7oo —but it is
welcome.
Relations between the Vic. Cockies and
U.A.P. are noticeably less strained since
Argyle decided that there was no desperate
hurry for Menzies’s Financial Emergency
(Mortgages) Bill. Paterson, M.H.R., has
contributed to the easier situation by point-
ing out that it is difficult for a State Gov-
ernment to do much for mortgagors while
Commonwealth taxation remains so high. The
10 p.c. on property income alone is equiva-
lent to \ p.c. of farm interest in some cases,
and to just on f p.c. in others.
Queensland Federal rolls show an increase
of 7457 electors —to 503,312 —since the poll
in December. It is expected that the Com-
monwealth census will show definitely that
the State is entiled to another House of
Reps, member —that is, 11, instead of 10.
It began with nine members. Victoria
started with 22, has 20- now, and will pro-
bably be reduced to 19 in the next Parlia-
ment. It has steadily lost population—
chiefly adventurous young men—to Queens-
land and Westralia.
South' Aus. politics are slowly emerging
from the tangle which the wheat-storage
business got them into. Wheat stored with
a firm which goes bung ought to belong to
the farmers who put it into store; but the
law has always said it doesn’t —that they
come in as ordinary creditors. Verco Bros,
failed; and Butler, Opposition leader, tried
to beat the law by making another law retro-
spective. That sort of measure is always
highly dangerous. Hill, the Premier, fought
it, and won in the end, thus clearing the
ground for a measure which will better
secure the farmers in the future. Hill comes
out of the mix-up looking much more like
a statesman than Butler does.
There is an ancient and fish-like smell
about some of the evidence which a Queens-
land Commission also is taking. Its chief
object seems to be to show that city jackals
have been making a fine meal of the poor lambs
of the dairying industry. The Government has
been encouraging co-op. butter factories. One
recent allegation is that many of these have
been equipped by a firm which did the job
for 10 p.c. on cost, but that it took a secret
commission of 10 p.c. as well from the
people who provided material, etc. One
large supplier has admitted that the prac-
tice was to pay him in full, and for him,
after a decent interval, to send back his
own cheque for 10 per cent. “I call it
theft,” said counsel assisting the Commis-
sioner interrogatively. “There is a terrible
lot of stealing, then,” was all the witness
would say in reply.
Three hundred of his constituents de-
scended on John Allan, the Vie. Minister oi
Agriculture, at his farm near Ivyabram on
a Sunday to protest against the control of
irrigation settlements being withdrawn from
the Water Commission. John took the in-
vasion coolly and refused to disclose the
Cabinet plan, being pledged to secrecy.
Bounce was tried by members of the deputa-
tion, and John turned on one: “Cowbails,”.he
said, “I don’t care a damn for yon.” Premier
Argyle has since praised him for declining
to be stampeded. Seemingly Kyabram is no
longer a synonym for economy when its
home interests are affected.
It will be interesting to hear what the
youngsters of this generation and the next
have to say about dad and grand-dad when
they grow up. ‘ Dad and grand-dad had such
large hearts that they gave everybody a
pension or a bonus —and then dropped the
bill into the cradle for the infant to wrestle
with later on. In the past year they have
been giving the woolgrower a hefty bonus
nominally collected from importers. But
it can’t all be collected from importers;
Governments and other public bodies which
owe interest abroad have to pay some of it.
Last 12 months exchange cost the Queens-
land Government £1,047,718; and, as that
was about half of the deficit of £2,075,180,
it can be fairly said that over a million of
the bonus by way of exchange which the
Queensland squatter got last year was put
on the file for him to pay presently. The
Government makes a start to collect it by
increasing the income tax and reimposing
the super land-tax.
Lang set up a cumbersome and costly
Transport Commission of nine, headed by
C. J. Goode, who had been dismissed from
the Railway Department for receiving “a
corrupt payment,” and for “serious miscon-
duct amounting to a fraud on the Railway
Commissioners.” Goode resigned when a
Royal Commissioner who had inquired into
the charges against him published the ex-
pressions quoted; now there is to be a Minis-
try of Transport, with three Commissioners,
of whom Cleary is to be in control of rail-
ways, Maddocks of tramways and road
transport and Newell of main roads. Cleary
was “retired” by Lang because he had sacked
Goode, and Maddocks because Lang didn’t
like the cut of his jib; Newell was one of
FARM ATIENDANT: “What’s the matter with
you, Ebenezer? What are you doing?”
EBENEZER: “I’m pulling in my horns — the
boss is coming.”
the nine, though, being a main-road engineer,
he was naturally ordered by Lang to look
after car registrations. The other seven are
eligible for appointment as Assistant Com-
missioners, and five who were taken from
departmental jobs are assured of employ-
ment in some capacity. But no billet will
be created for Miller, the former secretary
of the ’busmen’s union; and the ’busmen’s
verdict (bowdlerised) is “Serve him right!”
Melbourne friends of Theodore would like
to get him a nomination for one of the
local seats in the House of Reps.—Anstey’s
(Bourke) or Fenton’s (Maribyrnong)
though he protests that he has made no plans.
He entered politics at Chillagoe (N.Q.) and
came south to Sydney when Herbert would
have none of him; so removal to Melbourne
“Never you mind where I’m going! This
is a mystery hike, this is.”
would be a resumption of his southern pil-
grimage, as well as a reminder to Sydney
of what it rejected. If “the movement”
keeps moving him on, Theo. may work his
way right round Australia.
Lang boasted on Eight Hours Day, 1931,
that he had ushered in “the Revolution” by
“Act of Parliament.” Judging by his furious
defence of his protege Goode, whom he de-
scribed as “the outstanding railwayman in
Australia” (of course, without mentioning
that Goode refused to answer questions
touching his probity “because it might in-
criminate me”), he now regrets that in intro-
ducing the spoils system he didn’t go the
whole hog. Beside himself with rage, he
roared: —
In future, Labor will not be remiss in this direc-
tion.... Within a very few years the first legislative
act of every incoming Government will be to dismiss
from office all the political appointments of its
predecessors, and appoint followers of the party in
power in their stead. That system, at least,
insures to the Government sympathetic administration.
In other words, Labor partisans will be
given the plums of the public service, re-
gardless of whether they are crooks. “Aus-
tralia’s next Prime Minister?” Not if he
lives to the age of Daniel Parr!
M. L. Reading, editor of Brisbane “Tele-
graph,” has been committed for trial for
publishing what is alleged to be a seditious
letter. The “Telegraph” is a vigorous oppo-
nent of Communism under all its aliases
and camouflages; and the writer of the
letter in question declared that (1) the
Forgan Smith Government had shown its
sympathies with Communism or the Com-
munists, and (2) the most effective way of
blocking any move in that direction was to
keep the Government short of money by
refusing to pay taxes. The decision will
be most interesting. Sedition means advis-
ing or counselling insurrection; and the
question apparently is whether people can
insurrect by buttoning up their pockets or
whether it is necessary to do something
violent.
Vic. Assembly gave a frosty reception to
a Ministerial proposal for making stamped
receipts compulsory in transactions involving
£2 or over. Treasury officers have tried the
notion on two or three Parliaments with
the same result. Menzies said the provi-
sion would apply to the sale of groceries,
milk, cauliflowers or anything else, whether
sold across the counter or supplied otherwise.
Murphy, from Port Melbourne, asked
whether it would be applicable to punters,
and the Attorney-General admitted that
there was nothing in the clause to exempt
them. Almost as hostile was the comment
on a meditated increase of the stamp duty
on cheques from l|d. to 2d. It has been
2d. in N. S. Wales for years, but Victorian
politicians don’t like following N. S. Wales.
To the intense gratification of tin-hare
and fruit-machine “sports” the newspaper
mortgaged to Lang has persistently sneered
at Stevens for being religious. Great was
its indignation when it learned that “our
Christian Premier” was not prepared to take
a buffet in debate without giving one. It
then announced that “his demeanor in Par-
liament” was “arrogant”; that his “insulting
manner towards those who interrupt him”
had “led to an unpleasant scene”; that
when “Mr. Baddeley asked the Premier to
speak up” he was met with' “a petty in-
sulting rejoinder”^—“offensive.” was its mort-
gagee’s expression. And all because the
baited Premier called the ponderous Badly
“Woodenhead!”. The same paper gleefully
recorded a brush between Bruxner and Mc-
Girr, in which the latter said, “Judging by
the look of you, you have been drinking up
all the pubs this afternoon.” This it de-
scribed as “a crushing reply, a swift and
cutting retort.”
It is the fate of industrial arbitration in
the Commonwealth and N. S. Wales to be
“amended” after every change of govern-
ment ; and if the Administration reaches a
second year it generally amends its amend-
ments. Stevens’s Industrial Arbitration
(Amendment) Bill does away with Lang s
Forty-four Hour Week Act and transfers, the
fixing of working hours to the Industrial
Commission. The main objection to the
44-hour week is that softjobbers get it, with
a consequent inflation of costs (particularly
serious in the Railway Department), as well
as men in responsible and exhausting jobs ;
and the commission will be empowered to
discriminate, as is only right. . Also the
measure, while preserving conciliation com-
mittees, and adding apprenticeship to their
powers, abolishes the cushy jobs of the
Lang-appointed Deputy-Commissioner and
numerous chairmen, all Trades Hall worthies,
although they are to receive compensation.
The Deputy-Commissioner, it seems, put in
“only six days a month” for his £lOOO a
year and privileges. Lang, of course,
bellows that the sacking of this sinecurist
is a foul outrage on “the workers.”
The tramways department of Brisbane
City Council did well to return a profit of
£6036 for 1031-32. During the same year
£293,100 was lost on the Lang-cursed Sydney
and Newcastle tramways, though for eight
months motor-’buses were under Lang’s
interdict. And, unlike the Lang-cursed con-
cerns, the Brisbane enterprise made a sub-
stantial contribution (£20,000) to a sinking-
fund (£193,723 altogether) ; carried relief
workers—from whom Lang exacted full
rates, besides taxing them Is. in the £ —
for a penny, and sold concession tickets,
good for “any single section throughout tin-
system,” at 10 for a shilling, while Lang
was abolishing the “Tory 7 ’ concession fares
for shoppers. G. R. Steer, the capable Bris-
bane manager, says in his annual report
The Brisbane Tramway Trust Act of 1922 (under
which the tramways were acquired) contained a
wise protection against indiscriminate ’bus compe-
tition, and this jurisdiction has been exercised with
discretion in the public interest, ’buses being allow til
to operate where requirements were not met by
either train or tram.
Much of the credit for this is due to Theo-
dore, whom Lang hates so bitterly.
“Efforts are to be made to secure the readmission
of ex-Premier Hogan to the Labor party Mr.
Hogan, on his return, denounced the British attitude
at Ottawa, and the terms on which the N. S. Wales
loan was converted, comparing them with the con-
sideration granted by the British to France and
Italy.”
“That’s what I think o’ yez, y’ mean ould
baste. But, for Hivven’s sake, don’t
daw me as y’ did De Valera.”
Justice Starke, of the High Court, put
forward a remarkable proposition the other
day during q criminal appeal from Tas-
mania in which a new trial was ordered by
a majority of five, Mr. Starke dissenting:—
He believed that the right of appeal to the. High
Court in criminal matters should be abolished in the
interests of Australia.
In civil cases of amounts of £3OO and up-
wards appeals to the High Court lie of right,
and in other civil cases leave, or special
leave, may be granted according to circum-
stances. The High Court has actually heard
an appeal from a District Court verdict on
a dogbite case. Is a citizen’s life or liberty
of less importance than a verdict for a few
pounds?
Assistant Minister Perkins was asked by
a deputation of fruitgrowers that prohibi-
tion of imports of oranges and lemons should
be continued or replaced by a duty. Per-
kins replied sadly that his Government had
promised to take off all prohibitions of im-
ports, while as to the suggestion of a duty
he was silent. Perkins’s colleague Fenton
was worried as to whether the Ministerial
promises squared with his own plain duty.
He solved the difficulty by resigning.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Viti”: When the Fijian Legislative
Council opened the other day there was
placed on the table the first Fijian mace,
presented by King George. The bauble was
not of the historical type that Cromwell
ordered off, but the actual war club of King
Thakambau, or Cakobau. When the islands
were ceded to Britain in 1874 the old can-
nibal monarch presented his club in token
of fealty to Queen Victoria, whose grandson
has now returned it. It has a grim history.
It was the custom of its original possessor
to have all prisoners captured during a raid
brought before him. Those he considered
fit for the cooking ovens he forthwith brained
on the spot—he is said to have disposed of
some 300 of these in one day—and the
balance he reserved to act as rollers on the
occasions when his great war canoe was
launched. It is pleasing to record that his
Majesty was converted to Christianity and
died in the odor of Methodism.
* * * *
“Tyburn”: Touching recent paragraphs
on the undeserved obloquy that heats upon
the heads of hangmen, if the members of
this ancient craft are at all sensitive (which
I doubt) they may surely take comfort from
a remark made by Bank-
ruptcy Judge Lukin. A lady
who had just served six months
for contempt of court was
brought from Long Bay, and
still persisted in refusing to
answer pertinent questions
about her financial transac-
tions. Her counsel appealed
to his Honor not to send her
back to durance vile, and re-
ceived the reply: “I am not
putting her in gaol. She is
putting herself there. I am
just the instrument of the
community.” Looked at in
that light, which is of course
the purely logical one, it
doesn’t matter twopence who
sheets home the crime in a
capital case, or passes the sen-
tence, or pulls the lever; all
are merely instruments of the
community. The convicted
murderer hangs himself.
£ ☆ 'r
“LI.W.S.”: Tasmania has
lagged behind the other States
in providing up-to-date facili-
ties for cancer treatment. In
modern practice deep X-ray
therapy has largely replaced
the rare and expensive radium,
but in the whole of the island
there is no plant for produc-
ing deep X-rays. Sufferers
must travel to the mainland
to get the benefit of these, an
expense which only the fairly
well-to-do can afford. Northern
Tasmania has now linked up
with the world-wide campaign
against the dread disease. Tas
Shields, M.L.C., is chairman of a committee
which is appealing for funds to purchase a
deep X-ray plant and to establish a cancer
clinic. The North v. South feeling may do
good for once by spurring Southern Tasmania
to join in the good work.
$ * * *
“Lex” : In Melbourne last week the High
Court refused a city property-owner leave
to appeal against a decision “prohibiting the
continued use of his premises for immoral
purposes.” Counsel raised the point that a
place is not a house of ill-fame if inhabited
by just one lady of easy virtue, and quoted
an old Vie. Full Court decision and English
ones. But the Full Court hadn’t asked if the
dwelling had, or had not, been transformed
into a house of ill-fame by the behavior of
the inmate; it was only interested in the
powers of the Melbourne City Council under
the Local Government Act to make by-laws
for the good order and government of the
community. The High Court dodged the
issue also. In order to obtain leave appel-
lant had to show that a question of law
of “general importance” was involved.
Justice Rich, who has a neat wit,
observed blandly that the case seemed to
him essentially one of “domestic importance.”
So the problem of how many females it takes
to make a house of ill-fame remains un-
solved. It is denied in some quarters that
questionable behavior on the part of two
residents would supply the necessary quali-
fication.
“Cui Bono”: Sydney Ferries exhibits
some unaccountable business, methods. Last
month a 25 per cent, reduction was notified
in harbor fares from Circular Quay to Mos-
man and Cremorne, 3d. being substituted
for 4d. One would have supposed that a
reduction in the price of season tickets would
naturally accompany it, but it was calmly
announced that these would remain at the
old level. When single fares were 4d. the
A CATCH IN THAT, TOO!
“Ye’re having hard times, Priscilla, I’ve no doubt; but, remember, the Lord makes
the rain to fall on rich and poor alike.”
“Yes, Uncle Joe, that’s true. But the rich can get umbrellas.”
North Shoreman who purchased a monthly
ticket (assuming that he went out and hack
every week-day, which is all that most
do), was getting for 12s. 6d. what would
otherwise have cost him 16s. or 175.; now
that they are 3d. it is difficult to see that
he is receiving any concession at all for pay-
ing his money in advance. And, of course,
since the Bridge came into being the ferries
have lost the monopoly of transharbor traffic.
The co. is simply driving good money into
the trams.
* * * *
“V. 0.”: The compilers of vital statistics
are taking no chances. These were among
the questions on a birth certificate that came
my way recently :
When and where born
Name, and whether present or not
It reminded me of the immigrant who had
to answer a queiy consisting of the single
word “Born?” After careful delibera-
tion he wrote “Yes.”
it * * *
“C.Q.”: The Sydney parson who resigned
his job because his congregation objected to
40-minute sermons was a victim of the
modern craze for speed. He should have
been born in Scotland a couple of centuries
ago, when sermons were several hours in
length and divines were as keen on duration
records as pole-sitters. The preaching record
was held by an Edinburgh preacher who
talked on Hell for 13 hours; the listening
record went to a congregation which stuck to
its seats for 15 hours while relays of clerics
relieved each other in the pulpit. The
shortest sermon in Melbourne history lasted
two minutes, and was delivered by a parson
at Camberwell 20 years ago. He had just
got into his stride when his wife and the
verger rushed into the church and announced
that the vicarage was on fire.
* * * *
“Whitehall”: A Maoriland visitor put his
finger on the truth in the “S. M. Herald”
recently:—
Nowhere have I found the efficiency or anything
like the courtesy and assistance received at the
hands of every postal official I have met in New
South Wales.
Postal officials in Britain are vinegary and
peevish—l don’t speak of the amiable
creatures who deliver letters, but of the
females who sell stamps and the like from
behind wired barriers. Their disagreeable
ways have been a national joke for genera-
tions. In France postal officials (males, as
a rule) scream at you on slight provocation,
and in Germany they bellow. They used to
be equally noisy and objectionable in Italy
till Mussolini came along; now they are
merely stupid. I class the stamp-sellers of
Sydney with tramguards for free-and-easy
friendliness, and with traffic policemen for
helpfulness. I can understand their intelli-
gence, as under the local system of paternal-
ism they have to be capable of a good many
of the duties of a bank manager, bu-t that
makes their good temper all the more sur-
prising. The only catch in it is that you
have to treat them as friends; at the slight-
est sign of hauteur they become as arrogant
as Prussians.
* * * *
“Kingsland”: I doubt whether the theory
that the Empire owes much to the British
public schools is as outworn as “P.S.” would
have us believe (B. 5/10/’32) ; his further
contention that the Empire was created long
before “English public schools, as at pre-
sent constituted, came into prominence” is
pure tosh. Eton, Westminster and Win-
chester, to name only three, were going
strong before there was any Empire, and,
with the two Universities, supplied the
cream of the State services in those days.
These and many others were flourishing
when the first charter to the London Com-
pany of Merchants, which was the begin-
ning of the Indian Empire, was granted in
1600. The two most outstanding of early
Empire-makers were public-school men—
Clive, of Shrewsbury, and Warren Hastings,
of Westminster. As to the public schools
of to-day being different from those of long
ago, they have altered little save in out-
ward appearance. And as to the Sepoy,
speaking as one who has had some experi-
ence of Indian troops, I aver that he doesn’t
defer to the judgment of a public-school
subaltern “because he is a Sepoy” but be-
cause he knows that his officer is an un-
mistakable Sahib. Conversely, no Indian
soldier will willingly endure the control of
a man whom he sizes up as an outsider, as
many a “tempy” officer, pitchforked from
some English to an Indian unit during the
late war, found to his discomfiture.
* * * #
“Chevroford”: With the approach of
Christmas the Vic. National Safety Council
is reviving the safety-lane proposal, which
was launched last year. Car-owners were
invited to submit their cars to free tests
at a rendezvous established in Lansdowne-
street. The results were interesting. Only
8.5 p.c. of cars submitted were passed Al at
Lloyd’s; 57 p.c. had faulty brakes, and 66.5
had defective lamps. Their owners were
handed cards stating repairs required and
earnestly solicited to take their vehicles
carefully to the nearest garage. How many
did so is difficult to say; in any case, only
a minute fraction of the car population sub-
mitted itself for examination and some of
the most terrible examples probably did not
turn up at all. There is no compulsion
about the business, as there ought to be.
* * * *
“Iverys”: The author who writes of coun-
tries with which lie is not familiar frequently
comes to grief. In one of his early romances
Conan Doyle laid the scene in Maoriland,
and described with much detail the vicious
sea-snakes swimming round the serpentless
Dominion’s coasts. Another recent writer
makes her hero acquire a million or so as
a legacy from an uncle who made a fortune
in a privately-owned Maoriland railway.
Lowell Thomas, in his reconstruction of the
romance of Von Luckner, refers to the in-
carceration of the German count in a Maori-
lamj prison, a relic of “the old convict days.”
But I was most intrigued with the recom-
mendation of a London journalist who
advised her readers to try strawberries pre-
pared “in the New Zealand way, with
vinegar, pepper and salt”!
* * * *
“D.”: “If Greta Garbo has sex appeal, so
has a petrol bowser,” wrote a contributor
from Melbourne (B. 5/10/’32). It dates
him —always assuming ho isn’t a member of
one of those native tribes in whose eyes no
woman is really alluring under 15st. He is
certainly pre-war; probably Edwardian. In
the opinion of millions of Caucasians all over
the world Garbo not only has sex appeal, she
is the embodiment of it. Twenty-odd years
ago she wouldn’t have had a hope of getting
before a theatrical public except in a comic
capacity; and privately she would have been
condemned as a “stick,” “ramrod,” “hop-
pole” and the like. Those were the days
when a Fine Woman had to display
balloon-like calves and arms and a 45in.
bust. Scores of Gaiety Girls married
wealthy peers on no other assets. Poets like
Tennyson, painters like Holman Hunt, wits
like Oscar Wilde battled against the vogue
in vain. It took a world-war to banish stays,
petticoats and “transformations,” and produce
the type of female charmer represented by
Garbo. Garbo is the physical ideal of many
young men and the envy of most girls, just
as the well-nourished Belle Bilton (later
Countess of Clancarty) used to be in their
grandparents’ day.
AFTER WINE WEEK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the meeting of the Federal Vitieultural
Council in Sydney it was mentioned that, although
Australia is now the largest exporter of wine to
Great Britain, the annual consumption in this
country of its own products is only six pints per
head, whereas in France it is 455 pints.”
Land where the mellowing vines in clusters
clamber
To fill your coffers with potential pelf,
Whose products, red and purple, gold and
amber,
Glow on so many a London vintner’s shelf,
How can you bang your drum and beat your
•tambour
Unless you drink more of your wares
yourself?
To preach is good. To practise what you
preach
Better. Observe the lesson France can
teach.
Though tastes in stimulants must ever vary,
’Tis none so old, this flair for fiery tack.
One well may doubt if Drake, the wake and
wary,
Of gin or whisky ever took his whack.
And bards Elizabethan quaffed Canary
And builded loftier rhymes on that—and
sack,
And hop-less mead and Mermaid Malvoisie —
Than ever you and I on beer —or tea.
Fill high the bowl —and yet be more
Sauternian,
My brother bards, too often saturnine !
Think for a moment, though you mayn’t
discern an
Afflatus in your own, your native wine,
Of odes that Horace hymned on old Faler-
nran,
And Byron’s eulogy on Samian wine,
In tots or bumpers, bottle or the wood.
’Tis yours—to drink it for your country’s
good!
Whisky’s a gift of Heav’n, of course, and
beer is
The same indisputably—is it not?
But Shakspeare’s eminence, that no man
queries,
Owed nothing to the pewter or the pot.
He sang hi.s deathless songs on stuff like
Xeres,
And when they bade Ben Jonson to a
spot,
Or Marlowe, equally convivial lad,
It wasn’t grog or lager that they had.
Come, brim the bowl; but not with brands
exotic,
Whene’er you feel a trifle bibulous.
Tradition may be rather too despotic:
And why should France’s sons, to put it
thus,
ALL IN THE JOB.
SOULFUL SUSIE: “I suppose you sailors know all about
the perils of the deep?"
THIRE MATE: “Yes, little girl—there’s a grass widow
aboard on nearly every voyage.”
Re just on forty times as patriotic,
What time their glasses clink, as we —
or us—
In what they wet their whistles to? In short,
I put my country first. Yes, mine’s a port!
N.S.W
T. THE R.


“Selma”: Ours is oue of those ancient
strongholds of a bygone aristocracy that are
ending their days as paying-guesteries and
residentials. As the house still has an affluent
air, we are pestered with canvassers; and
when our landlady beheld a neat young man
with a small bag on the front step she took
a decided course. “Nothing to-day, thank
you,” she called firmly. The young man
essayed to speak. “I tell you I don’t want
anything,” said the landlady tartly ; “I’ve got
all the cotton, hairpins, tape, elastic, soap,
pins and needles I need.” Still the young
man lingered, but she gave him no chance.
“Try another place,” she urged, and being
a large, hefty woman she took him by the
shoulders and turned him towards the exit.
He made a last effort to get in a word, but
THE GALLANT SWAIN.
MRS. FRAZZLE (gushingly) : “D’you know, Mr. Grimleigh, I’m
often mistaken for my daughter.”
MR. GRIMLEIGH ( gallantly ): “By Jove! Fancy you having a
daughter as old-looking as you arc.”
she shut the door. She was fated to discover
that the neat young man was “something
on the Government House staff,” and had gone
to illumine the house next door. “Pays Mrs.
Guppy three guineas a week without a
murmur,’” she wails, “and she would ha’
taken him for thirty-seven and six.” Our
landlady’s attitude to neat young men with
little bags has changed.
“Mells”: That “statue of Charles I.” at
Charing Cross, London (B. 5/10/’32), has
a curious history. It was the first equestrian
figure erected in England. One Le Sueur
cast it, to the order of some of the ill-fated
sovereign’s noble admirers, three centuries
ago. Then came the Civil War, and Par-
liament. disliking to have such a thing lying
about the place, sold it to a Holborn brazier,
stipulating that it should be broken to pieces.
But the brazier was either a very loyal or
a far-siglited person or both, for he disre-
garded the condition and buried it. His
reward came at the Restoration, when the
statue reappeared and was duly mounted
on its pedestal. It set a fashion, for Charles
11., James 11., William 111. and Anne all
have their statues in London. The four
Georges are without them, and possibly
didn’t deserve any such artistic tributes, but
the vogue began again with William IV.
Jj: :j: sj:
“Lord Luvus”: It would be interesting to
get the frank and uncensored opinions of
some of the girls and boys who are carted
about _ the country on these travel-league
excursions. I talked to one maiden recently
in Melbourne. She came from an up-coun-
try town in Westralia and had been taken
on a tour of Victoria and N. S. Wales with
about 60 others. The programme in each
centre they stopped at consisted mainly of
visits to bacon factories, butter factories,
match factories, power stations and Parlia-
ment Houses, varied with speeches about
the Empire and the blessings of conscien-
tious study and regular church-going from
Lud Mayors, Cabinet Ministers, politicians
and factory managers. Their cultural needs
had been catered for by visits to museums
and art galleries—where they were fre-
quently told to admire all the wrong pic-
tures; —and evenings spent at American
movies. The system, which seems to aim
at reducing the satisfaction of individual
tastes and desires to a minimum, has been
in full blast in America for a couple of gen-
erations. There the habit acquired in child-
hood has its logical extension in mass tours
of adults. I have met grown-up Americans
who had so lost the instinct for independ-
ence that they could not contemplate with-
out horror a visit to the Pyramids or the
nearest State capital except in a mob of 700.
“Ida D.”: Of course we have an accent,
but “Hillite” (B. 14/9/’32) is wrong in
saying it is “the same from Perth to Bris-
bane.” Each part of Australia is gradually
evolving an intonation of its own. City
accents (especially that of Sydney) are no-
thing to go on. The thing that few can
fail to note is that voices tend to become
softer as one travels north. The wrong
vowel sound is not so much “oi” for “i” but
a thinning of the “a” and “i,” as “cemp”
for “camp” and “fince” for “fence.” That
climate must affect the quality of the voice
has long been recognised. In the Argen-
tine the women of the hot, moist Corrientes
province are noted for their luscious voices,
while “to speak like a Porteno” —those who
are born in the Port of Buenos Aires —
means just the opposite.
❖ sjc s’: :’,J
“G.D.S.”: It isn’t only in dressing their
goods attractively that Americans lead the
world; the process extends to their sales-
men. When the Heinz people appointed
Australian travellers they insisted on quiet
ties and bowler hats, while soft collars were
emphatically ruled out, from the first day.
In addition photographs of the successful
applicants were sent to N’Yarli for approval.
* * * *
“Morimoto”: The threat of Manchurian
bandits to mutilate Charles Corkran, son of
an English major-
general, and Mrs.
Muriel Pawley if
somebody doesn’t
send them a huge
ransom, plus an
enormous quantity
of arms, medical
supplies and
trinkets, is no idle
one, incredibly hor-
rible as it may
seem. . The prece-
dent was set when
the British Goverq-
meht; paid a heavy
ransom to a
Chinese bandit for
the body of a
British subject in
China. In Shang-
hai kidnapping is a
recognised form of
political activity,
though foreigners
were at first left
alone. The funds
of the revolu-
tionary trade unions
were largely ob-
tained by running
native merchants
over the borders of
the International
Settlement. Rela-
tives who were
slow in handing
over the blood
money demanded
were reminded of
their obligation by
the inclusion of a
linger or toe of the
prisoner in their
mail. When Presi-
dent Chaing Kai-
shek, now a Chris-
tian, was stamp-
ing out Communism
in the Yangtse
Valley, he varied
the technique by
arresting Shanghai
millionaires and
charging them with
being Reds. He
collected over 50
million dollars in this ingenious way.
“Diggs’': From a “S.M.H.” leader on
Gold:—
WTiat Sera'll described as “the sacred hunger for
gold”—although why it should be “sacred” is not
clear—impels men to face the extremities of peril
and hardship.
In my remote schooldays the boy who trans-
lated the middle word of Auri sacra fames
as “sacred” (instead of “cursed”) would
have faced some perils, too. He might even
have brought on himself the fate that the
young gentleman who rendered Triste lupus
“the sorrowful wolf” sustained at the hands
of Dr. Arnold in “Tom Brown’s Schooldays.”
* * #
“Endor”: A Melbourne magistrate, justi-
fying the imposition of fairly stiff fines
on two cafd proprietors who had employed
palmists for the delectation of their cus-
tomers, remarked that “if a woman was
told ; she would make a good nurse, and
changed her occupation, harm might result
from fortune-telling.” It might, if anybody
took the parlor witches seriously enough to I
act on their prophecies and assurances, but
in this case the client who was told that
her real vocation was nursing happened to
be a policewoman in disguise, so that the
only harm that resulted was to the
oracle (a man) and his employer. Still,
when the sorceress who analyses tea-leaves
tells a feather-headed girl that a dark man
and a fair man are both passionately m love
with her, and adds a forecast (for full mea-
sure) on which is likely to make the: better
husband, she may obviously work mischief
without intending it. The trouble is that you
can t protect the gullible against themselves ;
where fortune-telling is concerned there will
always be a small proportion of persons,
mostly women, only too eager to be gulled.
“Hippophagus”: The gradual elimination
of the horse is a source of concern to
zoo authorities, as well as saddlers and
farriers. For many a year the worn-out
beast of burden provided caged carnivora
MORE GOVERNMENT INTERFERENCE.
OFFICE-BOY : “Please, sir, there’s a ‘Post No Bills’ sign put up alongside the letter-
box. Will I have to deliver them?”
with their sustenance. Now, this source
of supply having almost failed, substitutes
for horseflesh have to be provided, and not
only are they more expensive but, curiously
enough, the beasts of prey don’t like them
nearly as well. According to Director
Minchin, of the Adelaide Zoo, the lions in
his charge are anything but satisfied with
the change in the menu; “they will eat beef,
but you must get them ravenous first.”
Whether Felis leo prefers horseflesh because
it partakes more nearly of the flavor of
his natural food in the jungle—zebra, deer,
giraffe and the like—or because zoos have
inured him to it is not stated. There can’t
be many humans who wouldn’t sooner eat
beef than horse, which has a certain sickly
sweetness, but there’s no accounting for
leonine tastes, which are shared by tigers,
lennard« and 0.-r-ii oinonnt;
icopaias ana even
“X.S.”: The trial in Melbourne of Russell,
who was charged with murdering his wife
and two children, unwound a domestic tangle
of amazing complexity. Russell, a mechanic,
who had been on the dole at Sunshine for
two years, started “walking out” with a
damsel who was in domestic service and
eventually went through the form of mar-
riage with her. The girl seems, to have be-
come insistent about his assuming the full
obligations of a married man, so he rented
apartments in another suburb and named
a day on which they would move
into their matrimonial bower. She threw
up her job and went to Sunshine to
make final arrangements. Russell took
her to the house of a relative and
said he was going to look for a horse to
EVENING THINGS UP.
“I can’t understand why wives are so fond of giving their husbands home truths."
“I suppose it’s because husbands are so fond of bringing home lies.”
remove -the furniture. Evidence was given
that .he .had made, several inquiries concern-
ing the whereabouts of his wife, who had
gone out with the children. The last that
Was heard of her was, screams coming from
the direction of the Sunshine swimming
pool, in which the. three bodies were
found. Russell rejoined the second lady,
and took her that night to his home,
where they spent the week-end. It was not
till two days later that she learnt of his
previous domestic history. The Crown case
rested on Russell’s contradictory statements ;
on the fact that when he rejoined his second
“wife” he had a wet sleeve, which he ex-
plained by a fall in a paddock; and on a
confession alleged to have been made to a
fellow-prisoner. Accused swore that Mrs.
Russell had drowned herself and the children,
and that he had dived in three times without
finding the bodies. In accounting for his
movements on the fatal day he said he had
intended to take his legitimate wife with him
to the new premises and introduce her to his
bigamous wife as his married sister. One
jury could not agree; another—holding, evi-
dently, that the man had watched his un-
happy family drown without trying to save
them—brought in a verdict of manslaughter.
* * ...
UT ,, ~ .. . ‘.
Bloggs : No doubt Earl Russell is sm-
cere in advocating “that children should be
00/i^oo^ 0 parents fools (B.
It one of his children called him
a /°° bo wo, jjd be. in a position to smile
tolerantly, and point to his degrees and
the child told him
, e troth: that he is a posturer; an
a< * v ? cat ® impracticabilities, like corn-
Ponionate marriage among undergrads., for
purpose of getting free advts.; and in
other respects the equivalent of a cheapish
kind of Hollywoodite—then, I think he would
b » W a normal parent who was
called a fool by his offspring. We would all
iave a ,better conceit of ourselves if
we could only decide W’hat insulting language
,o be used about us by relations and
mends-
* * *
“S.T.S.” (B. 7/D/’32) quotes a
statement in Catherine Corswell’s “Life of
TT t » . , ~
Dawrence as showing that there is
a demand m London for the pornographic,
True, the Mandrake Press, at the time of
Lawrence’s exhibition of pictures in London,
published a book reproducing a number of
those pictures, 10 copies at 50 guineas being
ordered six times over. But there is nothing
in Mrs. Corswell’s book to justify the charge
of pornography, nor indeed is there anything
in the pictures. Copies of the ordinary edition
came to Sydney and the seeker of pornography
would be badly disappointed in its contents.
Lawrence’s own comment on the demand for
the special edition, quoted by Mrs. Corswell,
attributed it to “the collecting craze.” His
ordinary editions had collectors’ value, and
some others of his recent books had been
issued in de luxe editions ; this was the first
book of his pictures.
BALLADE OF BETTER WRITERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The gems of my poetic art
Enjoy at best a transient phase.
The merchants in the rhymesters’ mart
Fail to perceive their lustrous rays.
It may be that in future days
Posterity will count them brighter,
For folk still flock to Shakspeare’s plays—
Some say he was a better writer.
Yet once the damsel of my heart
With soulful glance was apt to gaze
When I my yearnings would impart
In villanelles and roundelays;
How soon a maiden’s fancy strays!
There came 1 an unpropitious blighter
Who might not on Parnassus gi’aze,
Yet proved himself a better writer.
Indeed, he drove a butcher’s cart
And had no skill for tuneful phrase;
To him she was “a dinkum tart”:
Uncouth he was in speech and ways.
’Tis said, “The woman always pays.”
But as lier bills grew ever lighter,
His erudition earned her praise—
She counted him a better writer.
V ♦ '
Envoy.
Prince, their new shop the sign displays,
“Our Cuts are Prime and Prices Slighter”;
His weekly bills bring glad amaze:
He is, no doubt, a better writer.
N.S.W.
AHAB MULDOON.


AN UNBIASED OPINION
“The Automobile Engineer” (London), official organ of the Institution
of Automobile Engineers in an article on Modern Fuels states: —
. Competition has compelled other petrol producers to adopt like methods of
control , but the fact remains that SHELL MOTOR. SPIRIT sets a standard of
quality not only in this country but throughout the world.”
—“Automobile Engineer•/’ Dec., 19-11.
INSTANT STARTING
SHELL
THE SHELL COMPANY LIMITED
INSTANT ACCELERATION
51297
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Australia lost a native-born scholar of
real distinction and a poet of rare charm and
depth in Chris Brennan, who died at
Lewisham (Sydney) Hospital last week, aged
62. As a youth he went from Riverview Col-
lege to Sydney Uni., where he won many
CHRIS BRENNAN, poet and scholar-
died Sept. 28, aged 62.
distinctions, including a post-graduate
scholarship, which carried him to Europe,
where ho studied mainly at the University
of Berlin. He returned to Australia in the
middle ’nineties with a remarkable equipment
for so young a man—a comprehensive know-
ledge of literature, from the old Greek drama-
tists down to comparatively modern poets,
English, German, French and Italian.
Brennan was appointed lecturer in Modern
Literature at his old University, where he
also acted as examiner in Latin and Greek
subjects; he found time to become a valued
contributor to European journals, besides
writing verse whose quality was recognised
as outstanding by those most competent to
judge and to pronounce. In 1920 he became
Associate-Professor in German and Compara-
tive Literature (one of the McCaugliey en-
dowments), which post he held until four
years ago. Professor Brereton, a friend and
colleague of 40 years, spoke eloquently and
feelingly at the funeral service on Chris
Brennan’s literary activities and claimed for
him a high place among “poets’ poets.”
Judge Laurens Armstrong, who steps down
from the N.S.W. District Court bench to-
day, at 70, is a scholar of distinction as well
as a sound jurist. A Christchurch (M.L.)
native, he spent much of his boyhood at
Canterbury (Eng.), where two of his pre-
ceptors were Dr. Mitchinson, later Bishop
of Barbados, and Dr. Charles Badham,
Professor of Classics at Sydney University,
Judge ARMSTRONG ( N.S.W. ).
once described as “the greatest of living
scholars.” The future Judge went to Sydney
Uni. from Sydney Grammar School, to become
the foremost classical scholar of_ his year.
Besides knowing Latin and Greek intimately,
he is at home in German, French, Italian
and Spanish. He lectured in classics at his
Alma Mater before being called to the Bar
in 1891. He built up a good practice on
the common law side and in 1919 accepted
a District Court Judgeship. During the war
he filled the unenviable job of State Censor
with tact and understanding. There is plenty
of humanness in him, besides the humanities,
and he has always had a helping hand for
delinquents.
The new Pastor Lahusen, of the Lutheran
Church in Sydney, just arrived by the
Neckar, says there is not the wisp of a
chance of the ex-Kaiser being called back to
Germany. The nation, the new man says,
admires some of the ex-Kaiser’s ideals ; but
personally he isn’t popular, and the people
wouldn’t have any of the other Hohen-
zollerns on their minds. Anyhow, says Pastor
Lahusen, they’ve got too many far more
serious things than the monarchy to think
about —unemployment chief among them.
Twenty-four Anglican bishops, besides the
four archbishops—of Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane and Perth —met at the Primate’s
headquarters the other day to talk about
church government. It was the largest col-
lection of gaiters ever got together for the
purpose.
James McNeill, who has been permitted
to “relinquish” the Governor-Generalship of
the Irish Free State after four troublous
years, was never a fighting politician, like
his predecessor, Tim Healy; he might have
got on better with the De Valera following
if he had been. McNeill is a Cambridge
graduate who put in nearly 30 years in the
Indian civil service and rose high there.
After his return to his native land he
became chairman of the Dublin County
Council, and he was one of the committee
appointed to draft the Free State constitu-
tion. He was born in Antrim 63 years ago.
Gengoult Smith is to get a second term
as Lnd Mayor of Melbourne. If he likes
he may run for the third year and secure
the customary sirship. Luxton didn’t obtain
liis knighthood until several months after
he left office because Hogan found it diffi-
cult to overcome his party’s prejudice to
name-handles.
Dr. Rudolf Asmis, Australia’s new Ger-
man Consul-General, has been a spectator of
three revolutions—the Chinese, the Russian
and the Siamese. The only one in which no
blood was spilt was the Siamese. During
the Great War Asmis helped to run Brus-
sels for Germany.
The passing of J. H. Dawson at Mosrnau
has severed one of the last links with
a Sydney which has now vanished. His
name was a household word wherever row-
ing and sculling men foregathered; his fame
as a maker of sculls and oars was world-
wide. All the great rowing men of the past,
from Richard Green, the first Australian
winner of the world’s sculling championship,
to Jim Stanbury, used his products, and for
many years he supplied most of the N.S.W.
and Maoriland rowing clubs as well as many
in other parts of the world. He was 87 at
the end.
Thomas Hunt, doyen of Australian press-
men, for 73 years proprietor and editor of
Kilmore (Vic.) “Free Press,” passed his
91st milestone the other day. He was an
M.L.A. in the days when Graham Berry and
James McCulloch thundered. Even now not
only does the cheery veteran write for his
paper, but he tucks up his sleeves and helps
print it.
George Carter, dead in Brisbane at 68, was
for years one of the stalwarts of Queensland
Labor. Born in Maoriland, he spent most of
his early days in ’Frisco, coming to Aus-
tralia when 25. In Victoria, where he worked
as a miner and station hand, he linked up
with the A.W.U., and in Queensland he
soon made a name in industrial movements.
His first shot at Parliament w T as in 1907,
when he was beaten for the Brisbane seat,
but in 1915 he got in for Port Curtis. He
held the seat all the time Labor was in
office, losing it in 1929 to F. W, Butler.
Thursday Island is losing Dr. G. H.
Vernon, M.C., who, after 12 years’ service at
the outpost, has gone to New Guinea. Among
organisations which owe their existence to
his enthusiasm is the T.I. branch of the
Royal Geographical Society. The _ native
community had a good friend in him; his
understanding and generous nature helped
back to health many a sick “boy,” to whom
a dose of physic would not have been much
good. Always a retiring man, the doctor
managed to dodge the civic farewell which
the Mayor and townspeople wanted to give
him.
William John Rout, who had notched his
90th year, died at Auckland the other day.
A Londoner, he was taken to Tasmania when
a child and crossed to Maoriland in 1863,
where he lived in Invercargill. Another
period in Tasmania, and he went back to
M.L., where he followed the profession of an
accountant in Auckland. Mission work and
prohibition were his enthusiasms. His only
daughter, Mrs. E. A. Hornibrook (better
known as Ettie Rout), lives in London.
A link with the early history of Western
Victoria went with the death of John Rich-
ard Moodie at Hamilton. His grandfather
bought Wando Dale in 1851. He had come
out from Scotland about 1842, and ran a
business in Bourke-street until he heard the
call of the land. The Moodie family held
Wando Dale until the financial troubles of
the ’nineties. John R. had since built up
a fine Corriedale sheep stud.
Charlie Earle, managing director of
Maoriland’s principal Reform newspaper, the
Wellington “Dominion,” had a long journa-
listic experience before he founded and
became first editor of the journal he now
controls. He joined Wellington’s “Evening
Post” in 1887, rose to a sub-editor’s chair,
and then, like so many other newspaper
men, decided he was cut out for a farmer.
A few years on the land convinced him that
he wasn’t, and he returned to the Inky
Way. He was on the editorial staff of
C. W. EARLE , editor “Dominion” (M.L.).
“Christchurch Press” for a year, and then
became editor of that office’s sporting weekly,
the “Referee.” He established the “Dom-
inion” in 1907, and after five years as
editor became managing director. A C.M.G.
came his way five years ago. Earle has an
eye that would freeze a red-hot rivet and
a manner as stiff as his collar, but he knows
his business from A to Z.
Professor ll'. C. Richards, one of the heavy-
weights at the recent Science Congress in
Sydney, got his D.Sc. at Melbourne ’Varsity
while he was lecturing at Brisbane —he had
graduated a few years earlier. Richards
really is a lecturer; he has the manner as
Professor H. C. RICHARDS (Q.).
well as the matter. Which was one reason
why they made him president of the Rotary
Club in Brisbane. His. work in the past 22
years has covered most of the geology of
Queensland, but naturally, being more or
less on the spot, he has specialised on the
absorbing subject of the Barrier Reef.
T. R. Ashworth, who was re-elected presi-
dent of Vic. Employers’ Federation last
week, was an M.L.A. for Ovens for 20
months (1902-04) while the Kyabramapootra
craze was on. Too theoretical and too tcxt-
booky, T.R. made little headway during his
short term in the House. He is an apostle
of severe Governmental economy.
Baron Rudolph von Slatin Pasha, whose
death at Vienna at 75 is reported, had a
more eventful career than most men. An
Austrian, he went to Egypt in IS7B, joined
the civil service, and became Gordon’s assist-
ant in the Sudan, where he was appointed
Governor of Darfur. Taken by the Mahdi
in 1885, after Gordon’s death at Khartoum,
he was a captive for 12 years. After
the destruction of the Kalifa’s hosts,
Slatin was chosen to be Inspector-General
of the Sudan, an appointment he held
until 1914, when he resigned all his civil
and military honors conferred by the
British and Egyptian Governments and re-
tired to his own country, where during the
war he took up Red Cross work. He was
the only prominent citizen of the Central
Powers whose Allj'ed orders were not can-
celled. Like many Austrians, he had the
gift of tongues, and his knowledge of the
many Arab and Sudanese dialects was of
great assistance in the pacification and re-
conditioning of the Sudan.
W. H. Carvosso, Sheriff of Queensland, is
retiring from the civil service at 73. Few
men were more widely known and none
better liked than the Sheriff,, who had his
time extended in view of his outstanding
ability. Outside the law he lived for cricket,
of which he was an outstanding exponent.
When his playing days were over he donned
the umpire’s white in many Inter-
State and other big cricket matches played
in Brisbane, his service in this capacity ex-
tending over 30 years.
Reports leak down from Canberra that
Patrick Lynch landed the Senate Presidency
from Walter Kingsmill much' more easily
than was anticipated, securing a majority of
nearly 2 to 1 in the party room. Kingsmill
filled the chair capably enough, more than
half of his close on 35 years of Parliamen-
tary life having been devoted to precedents
and rulings—though in his early years he
had administrative experience, too, and once
held second place in a Westralian Cabinet.
But sympathy turned the scale for Lynch,
who narrowly missed the Presidency three
years ago.
A good many Bulletin readers became
interested in “Gad,” who spent 15 months
on the track in Queensland and N. S. Wales,
and wrote so intimately of his experiences.
Among his scores of unknown correspon-
dents was one who offered him a job in
Papua; but difficulties were raised —he was
required to put up a bond that lie tvould
not become a charge on the Papuan Gov-
ernment. So “Gad,” abandoning that idea,
set out to make a garden on Dorrigo. The
man’s struggles, however, won him friends:
the shipping co. has offered him a passage,
the Papuan employer has put up the bond,
and “Gad” is off on a new life. “Looking
back,” he writes, “I do not hesitate to say
that those 15 months of vagabondage have
been the most valuable in my patchwork
life.”
C. J. BRENNAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here in the kindly earth is laid away
Him whom we loved, the spirit Titan-large,
With thoughts that strained within the
bounded clay
To infinites beyond earth’s hidden marge ;
Hostage of sadness, mighty soul confined
In oubliettes of gloom and pain apart,
Till death’s last ransom freed the restless
mind
And stilled the passion of that fiery heart.
No more shall he return, trembling, from
tryst
With Beauty, held remote from the world’s
throng,
And from her fervent lips divinely kist
Draw forth his syllables of timeless song.
To him her lucid loveliness she bared
In forest dells and legended romance,
So that he wandered all his days, ensnared
By questing dreams, illumed with mystic
trance.
Mis spirit, like a mountain high, august,
Clove with its sharp desires the sky’s blue
rim,
And sombre crags of wisdom strong out-thrust
Above the depths with light’s excess grown
dim.
The sun’s white arrows pierce the serried
trees,
And splintered fall athwart the mauve-
splashed boles
To mingle with dark-frondaged mysteries,
The shine and shadow of his changing
souls.
There far below the abyss, runnels plash
In rippling melodies, and waterfalls
Flute rondos of delight, till drowned by
clash
Of thunder echoing from the mountain
walls.
With night come chants of doom, while
demon bands
Hold cloudy revel under red-eyed Mars ;
But still inviolate the mountain stands
With head enskied, crowned with uncon-
quered stars.
N.S.W.
T. INGLIS MOORE.


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the most significant and out
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.”
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the.
family during the years it is most required.
The annual '/iconic to the family after the
death of tfej Assured is 15 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is payable in monthly instal-
ments during the balance of a period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid also to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. .T. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
Here’s the Belt for
Difficult Drives
Chromol Leather Belting will soon
tame that troublesome drive in
your plant. It has no equal for
long and dependable service under
constant shock loads; it is
weatherproof, steamproof and does
not slip. Let us show you how
to get more efficient transmission
for every type of drive with
CHROMOL
THE SUPER DRIVING BELT.
Manufactured and guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LIMITED,
117 York Street, Sydney; and
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
C* 6ARBACP. c
DESTRUCTOR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTOR
Why pay for expensive
carting to get rid of your
refuse when you can burn
it immediately and so re-
duce your expenses, and
get rid of fly and rat pests,
which only spread disease.
BELIEVE IT OR NOT
This is the most
scientific destructor
on the market.
Owing to its con-
struction, it is smoke-
less and odorless.
Used in Public
Schools, Hospitals, Factories, etc.;
also made in household size. Sen
for Bulletins on Filters, Explosives,
Stamp Batteries, etc.
GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserve*.
1922 .. 296,060 Nil ~ 864,479
1923 .. 354,232 35 p.c. = 280,000 938,711
- 1924 .. 497.633 35 „ „ 280,000 1.156.344
1925 .. 521.590 50 „ „ 400,000 1,277,934
1926 .. 512.249 65 „ „ 520,000 1,270,183
1927 .. 355,207 45 „ „ 360,000 1,265,390
1928 .. 233,855 22.5„ „ 180,000 1,319,245
1929 .. 388,997 22.5„ „ 180,000 1,528,242
1930 . . 316,936 32.5„ „ 260,000 1,585,178
1.931 . . 80,421 7.5„ „ 60,000 1,605,599
1932 . . 152,803 10 „ ~ 80,000 1,678,402
The improvement of £72,382 in the year’s
profit was due to “surpluses accruing from
the, realisation of metal taken into account
at a low valuation at June 30, 1931” —£12
per ton for lead and Is. 2d. an ounce for
silver in Australian currency. As in the
previous term, the co. was unable to sell
its entire output; and the sales that were
made during the quarter to June 30 were
below cost of production. London metal
prices continued to fall:—■
Silver
Average— Lead. (fine). Zinc.
5 Years June, 1929 .. £2O/ 8/- 2/6 9 £3O/ 7/I
12 months June, 1930. 20/19/6 1/10.9 20/15/5
12 months June, 1931 14/16/1 1/3.8 13/13/2
12 -months June, 1932 12/16/7 1/6.4 12/18/9
Taking exchange into the reckoning, lead
averaged £l6 6s. lid. in Australian notes,
or £1 Is. 3d. less than for the preceding 12
months. The London figure touched its
lowest point (£9 2s. 6d.) in June; it rose
to £l3' 6s. 6d. on Sept. 22, but was back
to £l2 Bs. 9d. on Oct. 6.
The board put net profit from mining at
£10,370, compared with a loss of £65,422
in the previous year and a profit of £475,062
for the 12 months before that. The spring
in sales plus products on hand (£620,657)
was £117,757; exes. (£610,280, including
£33,000 for depreciation) took £41,965 of
the increase. The co.’s £1,059,175 of invest-
ments, of which £250,100 is on deposit, and
the balance mainly in associated enterprises,
netted £106,855 as against £115.699 in the
previous term; an extra £12,700 was set
aside for taxation (£17,500). Including
£35,578 dropped from somewhere into re-
serves, the net return from all sources was
19.1 p.c. on the £BOO.OOO of capital as
against 10, 39.6 and 48.6 p.c. for the three
preceding years. So an extra 6d., making
2s. per share, was distributed. The £72,803
that was left lifted reserves to £1,678,402
at June 30; that is excluding the workmen’s
compensation fund, £66,066.
A better idea of surplus assets is to be
had from the following figures:—
Assets other than 1923. 1931. 1932.
mine and plant £1,091,197 £1,375.457 £1,407,050
Liabilities.. .. 200,405 88,889 103,352
Excess assets .. £890,792 £1,286,568 £1,303,698
Thus the excess has increased from 225.
3d. to 325. 7d. per share over the last nine
years. But, as already pointed out, much
of the money is invested in associated con-
cerns. Expenditure on the new shaft, put
down to cheapen extraction of ore from the
southern end of the mine, added £55,343 to
the book value of plant (£1,157,075). The
mine figures at £83,694; it includes
3,750,000 tons of blocked ore, and a lot more
is known to exist outside the measured
limits.
An extra 1414 tons of crudes was raised
at slightly increased cost:—
1930. 1931. 1932.
Crudes raised. .337,242 tons 334,536 tons 335,950 tons
Extraction .. 225. 4.3 d. 18s. 6.3 d. 19s. 0.6 d.
Development .. 2s. 11.6 d. 2s. 6.0 d. 2s. 8.7 d.
Treatment .. 10s. l.ld. 9s. 0.9 d. Bs. 5.8 d.
Cost per ton .. 355. 5.0 d. 30s. 1.2 d. 30s. 3.1 d.
The ore contained a bit less lead and zinc,
but a trifle more silver, the assay being 14.6
p.c. lead, 6.40 z. silver and 12.3 p.c. zinc.
The metal content of the concentrates and
percentage of recoveries compare as fol-
lows :
Lead. Silver. Zinc.
IQO , J 31,063 tons. 1,015,6940 z. 34,176 tons.
87.1 p c 78.5 p.c. 75.4 p.c.
1Q „- f 37,054 tons. 1,299,0050 z. 40,522 tons.
l 90.4 p.e. 80.6 p.e. 77.7 p.c.
on 5 46,562 tons. 1,636,7120 z. 31,509 tons.
{ 94.8 p.c, 90.8 p.e. 83.1 p.c.
... J 47,928 tons. 1,875,4960 z. 9,598 tons.
ISMI X 94.3 p.c. 90.9 p.c. 83.8 p.c.
.q,,, ( 46,035 tons. 1,904,0320 z. 34,689 tons
\ 95.1 p.c. 89.2 p.c. 84.4 p.c.
The outstanding feature there is the re-
markable improvement in the percentage re-
eoveries, which, of course, helps to reduce
costs. The figures do not include recover-
eries from the deleaded residues, or the lead
in the zinc concentrates, or the zinc in the.
lead concentrates.
The pound shares now fetch 51s. in the
market as against 30s. 6d. a year ago. The
return at 51s. is 3.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis, or 7.8 p.c. on a 4s. distribution, which
would call for £160,000, or £7197 more than
was netted last year.
An agreement between the Barrier cos.
and the Union provides for a basic wage 7s.
6d. higher than the declared rate for the
State, -which was recently reduced from £4
ss. to £3 12s. 6d. The Union, however, had
the right to give two months’ notice of ter-
mination of the agreement if the declared
rate fell below £4 2s. 6d., and negotiations
are now in train for a new agreement. The
new shaft and a new flotation plant (designs
for the latter have been prepared) will help,
of course; but metal prices will need to
advance beyond present levels to make the
scrip attractive at 51s.
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney).
( Dividends ,
Ist 2na
Net Pref. Pref.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7} p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
£ £ a £ £
1922.. 85,262 9000 8.485 10 p.c. = 49,453 143,679
1923.. 90,107 9000 8,573 10 „ „ 49,453 166,760
1924.. 95,776 9000 8.573 10 „ ~ 49,453 195,510
1925. . 97,989 9000 8.573 10 „ „ 49,876 226,050
1926. .104,789 9000 9,911 10 „ „ 50,000 261,928
Premiums on shares, £25,000 .. .. 286,928
1927. .106,885 9000 13,330 10 p.c. = 52,764 318,719
1928.. 98,136 9000 18,403 10 „ 69,537 329,915
1929. .118,332 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 60,000 360,497
1930.. 73,742 9000 18,750 7 „ ~ 42,000 364,489
1931.. 49,973 9000 18,750 4 „ „ 24,000 362,712
1932 . . 72,056 7750 15,234 5 „ „ 30,000 381,784
First prefs. reduced to 5 p.c. and seconds to 6.8 p.c.
under Interest Reduction Act from Oct.' 1, 1931.
Amongst other things, the spring of £22,083
in the last 12 months’ profit reflects the
success of the management in dealing with
the new. problems that have confronted retail
and other traders. The outstanding feature
of the year’s history was a vigorous sales
offensive, which “substantially increased
turnover,” notwithstanding the disturbed
political conditions that prevailed in N. S.
Wales for most of the term. Lighter
purses and a more discriminating demand
forced closer study of family budgets and
price ranges; the tariff, primage and ex-
change bumped up the landed cost of imports
-—on the other hand, they helped to liven
the output of the co.’s own factories —and
many old lines had to be replaced by new
ones on a falling market, while taxation
made off with more of the takings. Still, prices
steadied somewhat, stocks were less trouble-
some, and the drop in exchange and the
statutory cut in interest on the mortgage
also helped.
After reducing the book value of fixed
assets by £40,563, or £19,461 more than in
the previous year, and paying the pref. divs.,
enough remained to show 8.1 p.e. on ord.
capital as against 3.7, 7.6, 15.1, 11.8, 16 and
17.1 p.c. back to 1926. So the div., which
had been steady at 10 p.c. for the nine years
to the close of accounts in 1929, but fell to
4 p.c. in 1931, was lifted to 5 p.c.
The market, heartened, by the improve-
meht in the figures and the change in the
outlook, prices the ords.' at 225. 9d. as
against 11s. 6d. a year ago. At 225. 9d. the
return is 4.3 p.e. on a 5 p.c. div. basis; the
investor who looks for a shade over 6 p.c. on
his money thus counts on a 7 p.c. div. Both
lots of prefs.—there are 150.000 first 6 per
cents, and 250.000 second 7£ per cents. —
are priced at 21s. 3d. each. At that figure
they return 4.7 and 5.4 p.c. respectively,
after allowing for the 'statutory reduction of
the divs. to 5 p.c. and 5.8 p.c. respectively.
Beyond these points the prefs. advance with
the ords. to the contract rates. The net
tangible cover is £9 4s 2d., firsts; £4 18s. 6d.,
seconds ; 325. 9d., ords.
The financial position improved :
1920. 1931 1932
Paid capital .. £559,804 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Deposits .. .. 14,369 14,604 17,773
Overdraft . . .. 287,259 -
Sundry creditors .. 121,620 159,217 176,155
Mortgages, etc. .. 203,585 452,475 452,100
Total liabilities .. £626,833 £626,296 £646,028
Fixed assets .. 520,260 1,296,530 1,255,967
Stocks . . . . 669,308 459,305 455,894
Book debts.. .. 199.032 221,643 281,541
Investments, cash, etc. 49,470 37,404 63,426
Thus to carry an extra £59,898 of book debts
and add £26,022 to cash and investments,
the board went outside for an extra £19,732
net. Though the mord or less liquid surplus
(£154,833, including stocks) sprang £62:777
during the twelvemonth, fixed assets repre-
sented 61 p.c. of the balance-sheet total at
•Tune 30 as against 45.5 p.c. six years
earlier. It is obvious, therefore, that satis-
factory results will largely depend upon
maintenance of a very lively turnover.
Goodwill is probably worth more even than
it was in the old days in George-street; but
it is not given any value in the balance-
sheet.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
—,,
Pref. Towards
June, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
11,341
1922.. 16.284* 7,571 8713 2,62 s
Loss.
1923.. 1.380 4,008
1924.. 1,169 5,177
1925.. 934 6,111
Capital written off, £322.104.
To Re-
Profit. serves. Reserves.
1926.. 19,308 t 18,000 1308 1,308
1927.. 36,041 36,000 41 1,349
Loss. Deficit.
1928.. 1,611 262
Profit. Reserves.
1929.. 63,184 52,000 1184 922
1930.. 39,943 40,000 --- 865
1931.. 35,607 t 36,000 - 472
1932.. 38,668 36,000 2668 3,140
*Three months. tSix months.
(Includes £29,376 paid by subsidiaries from reserves.
That table is a summary of the p. and 1.
figures of Lincoln Mills (Aus.), Ltd., only.
The co. owns all the £469,112 of capital, etc.,
in two manufacturing subsidiaries, Lincoln
Spinning Mills and Lincoln Knitting Mills;
and until the close of accounts in 1931 it
owned very little else.
A better idea of trading results is to be
had from the following comparison, which
combines the p. and 1. figures of the three
cos. in the group :
Gross Net Divs. Paid by
Profits. Exes. Profit. Subsidiaries.
1928.. £116,393 £81,109 £35,289 Nil
1929.. 135,341 81,032 54,309 £55,000
1930.. 131,037 85,054 45,983 40,500
1931.. 80,084 73,853 6,231 36,000
1932.. 103,621 66,167 37,454
Thus, owing to the over-supplied state of
the market, falling prices and conse-
quent trouble with stocks, etc., only £6231
was netted for the year to June 30, 1931.
So the subsidiaries drew upon their reserves
for £29,000-odd to pay divs. totalling
£36,000: thus enabling the holding co. to
continue payments on its £400,000 of 9 p.c.
prefs.
Up to that time all trading operations had
been, conducted by the subsidiaries; but the
holding co. then undertook distribution of
their outputs. There was a saving of £7686 in
exes.; and prices being less erratic, gross
earnings sprang £23,537. Still, the £37,454
netted was no more than £1454 in excess of
a. full year’s pref. requirements, leaving the
div. still 4 p.c. in arrears when the books
closed. Since then trading conditions have
greatly improved. But owing to the slender
support for the pref. capital, the rights
attaching thereto do not mean so much as
they might. The shares, which have priority
as to capital, carry a cumulative 9 p.c., and
are entitled, until 1935, to an extra 3 p.c.
in any year after ords. get 10 p.c. The bit
extra was for foregoing arrears of divs. in
1925, when £322,104 (= 365. per share) was
slashed off the ord. capital, reducing it to
£80527. Reserves at June 30 totalled
£21,941. The market prices the prefs.,
which are covered by 255. Id. in net tan-
gibles, at 20s. Bd.; at this figure the return
is 8.7 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
After eliminating inter-company debts, the
combined balanee-sheet figures of the three
cos. compare as follows:
1929. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £480,527 £480,627 £480,527 £480,527
Outside lia-
bilities-' .. 196,397 197,242 73,729 41,248
Freeholds .. 94,575 93,269 91,101 89,161
Plant ... 218,263 205,724 191,402 176,275
Stocks .. 268,813 310,171 201,718 215,483
Book debts, etc. 171,546 138,850 110,523 99,279
*The ’29, ’3O and ’Bl figures include an unspecified
provision tor taxation.
Provision for taxation now appears at
£16,482. Taking this into the reckoning,
the year’s net reduction in the debt was
£15,999. This and a growth of £13,765
in the stocks item was accompanied by
a reduction of £11,244 in debtors’ bal-
ances, etc. The improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£273,514) was
£35,002. Much depends upon the efficiency
of the plant, on which £15,127 more was
written off than was spent during the year.
William Adams and Co.
t Dividends- N Writ-
Pref. ten Re-
Apl., Profits. 7 p.c. Ordinary. Off. serves.
£ Q £/ £,
1922.. 2,598 1750 2} p.c. = 5,598 3350 1,270
Loss. 3} p.c. Deficit.
1923.. 47,406 875 Nil Nil 47,011
Capital written off, £45,000.. 2,011
Profits. 7 p.e. Reserves.
1924.. 6,287 1750 Nil 7
Arrears of pref. divs., £875.. l >ooi
1925.. 6,181 1750 2} p.c. = 4,500 1,582
1926.. 14.411 1750 5 „ „ 9,000 5,243
1927.. 17.562 1750 5 „ „ 9,000 - 12,055
1928.. 6,962 1750 2} „ „ 4,500 12,767
Surplus on property sale, £1022 13,789
1929.. 14,767 1750 5 p.c. = 9,000 17,806
1930.. 15,940 1750 5 „ „ 9,000 22,996
Loss. 8} p.c.
1931.. 15,772 -875 wn _ 6,349
Deficit.
1932.. 16,117 Nil . Nil 9,768
The figures in that table reflect the struggle
of the engineering trades against high costs
and competition from cheap-labor countries.
To help the co. out the management of this
well-spread business gave more attention to
overseas agencies, though it had to go into
debt to finance the widening of activities. The
ords., however, averaged no more than 3f p.c.
for the decade to the close of accounts-in 1930.
Then slump and the need to lighten the
outside debt meant that stocks and debtors'
balances had to be worked down at the worst
possible moment, while in -N;-S. Wales the
co. was handicapped by harassing indus-
trial legislation. So, although exes, were
cut by as much as 20 p.c., a loss of £15.772
showed up in 1931.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts there was a' further reduc-
tion of over 15 p.c. in exes.: But turnover
continued to fall away so abruptly that, for
the most part, business had to be forced, and
a loss of £16,117 was registered, though only
£4574 of it was in respect of the last half.
The co.’s prospects of coming out on the right
side at the close of next accounts are en-
couraging. During the year the Brisbane
branch was closed, new agencies were added
to the list, and conditions generally have
greatly improved since the books were ruled
off. Nevertheless, trading promises to remain
difficult, losses had made off with all the
reserves and £9708 besides at the end of
April, and there will be £3015 coming to the
prefs. when the books next close, after allow-
ing for the 221 p.c. cut.
The year’s contraction in the more or less
liquid surplus (£72,779) was £12,640, mak-
ing the slip £17,550 over the last five years:
1927. 1930. 1931. 1932.
, Paid capital. . £205,000 £205,000 £205,000 £205,000
Liabilities .. 265,599 225,589 147,444 119,590
Freeholds .. 106,357 102,655 103,476 103,476
Plant, etc. .. 25,744 25,325 22,455 18,979
Stocks .. 173,669 170,557 139,674 124,256
Book debts .. 172,420 151,645 85,479 62,020
Cash, shares, etc. 9,839 8,779 7,710 6,084
In the past 12 months stocks and debtors'
balances were reduced by £15,418 and £23,450
respectively, and £14,728 was snipped off the
overdraft (£80,797) and £13,126 off the
amount coming to sundry creditors
(£34,793). The mortgage was unchanged
at £4OOO.
The scrip has not an active market.
“Truth” and “Sportsman,” Ltd.
, Dividends
( Pref.
June, Profits. 9 p.c. 8 p.c. Ord. Deficit.
£.£ £ £
79,466
1926-. 26,645 4616 124 p.c. =15,938 73,375
Added prelim, exes., £2227 .. '.. 75,602
1927.. 40,216 6750 464 12} p.e. =21,250 63,850
Added prelim, exes., £9O .. .. 63,940
1928.. 41,140 7516 6985 12,} p.c. =22,770 59,571
Establishment exes., £9466 .. .. 69,037
1929.. 33,272 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 20,000 72,765
Added establishment account, £lOBl .. 73,846
1930.. 26.298 9000 8000 5 p.c. = 10,000 74,548
1931.. 27,421 9000 8000 5 „ ~ 10,000 74,127
Transferred contingency res., £1500.. 75,627
1932.. 26,945 7481 6650 5 p.c. = 10,000 72,818
*Nine months.
Pref. divs. reduced by 22} p.c. under Interest
Reduction Act from Oct. 1, 1931.
The present co. paid £220,000, including
£75,000 for goodwill, for the Australian .sec-
tion of the newspaper business then being
carried on by John Norton’s trustees; that
was seven years ago. After attending to
the prefs., the ords. got 124 p.c. for the
first three years. Meanwhile, additions to
the plant in all States and the erection of
new premises in Sydney added £155,000 to
capital, raising it to £400,000 in 100,000
9 p.c. first prefs., a like number of 8 p.c.
seconds and 200,000 ords.
Then advertising revenue slumped, and
removal exes., special allowance for de-
preciation and the loss on the sale of the
co.’s former Brisbane premises also affected
earnings to some extent —£10,547 of the
losses, etc., was capitalised. So although
circulation held fairly well, and savings fol-
lowed an overhaul of the organisation (pub-
lication of the Perth edition was suspended
in March, 1931), the ord. div. dropped to
10 p.c. 'in ’29, and then to 5 p.c.
During the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts circulation improved; still a trifle
less profit was claimed. But owing to the
statutory cut in the pref. divs. (the firsts now
get 6.9 p.c. and the seconds 6.2 p.c.'), enough
remained to show 6.4 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 5.2, 4.6, 8.1, 15 and 19.4 p.c. back
to 1927. That includes £l5OO sent to the
contingency fund (now £4500), shown as
written off in the table; the co. has become
involved in litigation.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:—
1926. 1939. 1931. 1932,
Pref. capital.. £75,000 £260,000 £200,000 £260,000
Ord. capital.. 170,007 200,000 200,000 200,000
Mortgage .. —• 42,746 41,73 S 40,545
Other liabilities 14,320 41,191 20,950 10,419
Freeholds, etc. 41,567 168,845 168,907 168,938
Plant, etc. .. 85,367 176,397 168,596 162,452
.Investments .. 7,500 7,500 11,29°
Stocks . . 25,507 22,398 21,139 24,868
Debtors .. 35.527 54,485 '46,831 39,777
Cash, etc. .. 22,723 4,408 6,065 6,063
Thus a reduction of £7054 in debtors’
balances, together with the year’s surplus
earnings arid allowance for depreciation.
(Continued on page 16.)


:>*. '' ’ : £
. ? , . . :: ' .
IK-.
jc h 'i
:|||i
mil
fli
gups-''
••.vi?!
K |H
K
m
M
and
m
VIRGINIA
CIGA R ETTES
VSr#»V IV mm I' I mm+m
A BDULLA Virginia Leaf Cigarettes offer
you something more than the very best
of cigarettes, made from only the highest
grade of imported Virginia tobacco. They
offer you true value, coupled with a name
renowned the world over as a guarantee of
the finest quality.
ih
00:
fi
m
mM'O
i
i
fi0 s
10
20
fIF®
i'«
AVL2.
CORK
TIPPED CIGARETTES


“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY"
NOW ON SALE.
The new spirit of confidence.
Will it carry prices much
further?
What about reaction?
The valuation of securities.
Great care now needed.
These and many other questions of
vital interest to investors are dis-
cussed in the October issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
Patents. —Have you an' idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Codlison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Oollison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
LARGE CAPITAL AVAILABLE.—I have London
Capital available for Proved Gold Properties, also
Capital to develop. Inspection made in any part of
Commonwealth. Reply with some details to
“LONDON,” e/o Mercantile Exchange, 380 Collins-
street, Melbourne, Cl. —Advt.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL H DOYLE
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
Directors
P. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman}
THOS. BUCKLAND
J. H. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
mi n
es
to:
J ....
m
KBit
No. 151 TEXAS RODEO
COWBOY SADDLE
An up-to-date attractive saddle, finished
in light brown leather, profusely basket-
stamped. It has square bastos lined with
woolly sheepskin. There is a rope strap
on offside of bulge, the horn is wrapped,
and it is three-quarter rigged with cord
cincha and wood stirrups.
PRICE, £l5
If double rigged, with 2-cord cinchas,
17/6 extra; and if in special nut-brown
leather, 17/6 extra.
Our No. 150 “WESTERN RANGER,”
unstamped, with round bastos, is only
£ll/10/-
Freight Free for cash with order to any
N.S.W. railway station.
COWBOY BRIDLE, fancy studder
cheeks, etc., without bit, 32/f
N.P. Cowboy Bit 7/6 extra. Post
age extra unless sent with saddle.
COWBOY RIDING BOOTS.
American Style, as illustrated, in black,
77/6 pair. Postage 2/-
Write for Saddlery Catalogue—Reduced Prices.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, Ltd.,
395 George Street, Sydney.
f
etc., enabled £11,724 to be knocked off the
debt, £3790 to be added to investments and
£3729 to stocks. The more or less liquid
surplus (£31,044) was £12,197 stronger than
at the close of accounts in 1931.
The market prices the first prefs at 235.
and the seconds at 19s. 3d. Allowing for
the statutory cut, the return at these figures
is 6 p.c. and 6.4 p.c. respectively. Excluding
the contingency reserve, the net tangible
cover is £3 ss. sd. firsts, and £2 ss. sd.
seconds. The ords. are not listed.
Ivalgoorlie Electric Power Co., the London-
controlled concern which supplies electricity
to the local trams and some of the big mines,
continues to balance on the right side of the
ledger. Last year £22,427 was netted com-
pared with £22,197 in the preceding year
and £18,392 the year before that. A 6 p.c.
distribution to both inscribed stockholders
and the ords. took £8260, and £lO,OOO was
earmarked for depreciation.
J ! ; sj: ; r.
Wide variations in methods, of ore-
treatment are to be found on the Broken
Hill mines, though the grade of concentrates
and metal recoveries vary but little. The
North has adopted the American practice of
fine grinding and all-flotation to give separate
lead and zinc concentrates. The South, in
its new mill uses May jigs followed by
Butcbart tables for the lead, and flotation
to separate lead and zinc from the table
tailings. The Zinc Corp. uses May jigs
and Wilfley tables, with different types of
flotation cells and reagents from those of
either the North or South. Sulphide Corp.
uses May jigs and flotation without tables.
Present metal recoveries under these different
t reatments are as follows:
Lead. Silver. Zinc.
Nol 'th 94.9 p.c. 89 p.c. 86 p.c.
South 95.5 „ go „ 85 „
Zinc Corp 95 „ 90 „ 80 „
Sulphide Corp. .. .. 94 „ 83 „ 89
Though the ore is from the one main lode,
substantial variations are to be found in its
mineral constitution in the different mines,
and each has adopted the method best suited
to its own particular conditions.
When the present co. took over the old Mt.
Morgan Co.’s assets—it paid £70,000 (cash)
for them—electrolytic was fetching £77 per
ton; at which figure good profits could be
made by leaching the ore body. But very
soon the collapse of prices stood in the way.
Advances in selective flotation, however, have
since greatly reduced costs, while exchange
at the present rate has added about 75 p.c. to
the value (in Australian notes) of the gold
content of the ore. Trial samples treated
in America and at Mt. Isa gave very en-
couraging results. But capital has been shy
the world over, and it was not until July
last, wnen the Queensland Government made
£15,000 available to the co., that the man-
agement was really able to do anything. Ore
winning began at the end of last month, and
the renovated portion of the concentrating
mill and other equipment, which is to treat
700 tons of ore weekly, was due to make a
start on October 10. When money becomes
available, the _ remainder of the big mill is
to be reconditioned, bringing treatment capa-
city to 150,000 tons p.a. The pilot plant has
more than borne out lab. tests. It is expected
that . over 200 new hands will be required
within the next few months. There are
664,000 tons of ore assaying 6.5 dwt. gold
and 0.9 p.c. copper ready to be quarried.
With copper at £4O per ton and gold at
£7 7s. 3d. per ounce, the co. figures on a net
profit of over 16s. per ton of ore treated,
when the plant is in full swing. In addition
over 8,01i0,000 .ons of ore, assaying 4.37dwt.
gold and 1.72 p.c. copper, are known to
exist in the mine; but this stone may cost
more than it’s worth to get out.
* * « *
The southern press made rather an un-
necessary fuss about the bursting of the
dam at Mt. Isa, and the alleged flooding
of the countryside with slimes and water.
The collapse took place at the residue dam,
which is used as a means of conserving
water, contained in the slimes. The
retaining wall is merely timber and • dried
slimes, and the damage, which was caused
by a whirlwind, has been speedily repaired.
The mill put through 52,391 tons of dry ore
in September; the lead bullion production
amounted to 4406 tons, the best since opera-
tions began.
❖ * #
The most interesting gold show in the
Chillagoe district (N.Q.) is the Federal
Flag, near Convex Creek. The deposit con-
sists of a specimen-carrying seam of caleite,
which occurs at the intersection of two
almost right-angle master joints in the por-
pliyry rocks of the locality. The seam,
average width of about 10iu., traverses the
main joint for 24ft., but the higher values
are confined to about 3ft. at the point of
intersection. A shaft has been sunk here
to a depth of ICOft., with the bottom show-
ing a decrease in values. Another shaft has
been put down 25ft. on the west; underfoot
in the sink is 12in. of formation carrying a
small vein of ea'cite quartz. Since its dis-
covery last year, the mine has yielded a total
of about 6500 z. of gold, valued at over £5OOO.
The Minnie Moxham, in the same locality,
continues to produce profitable ore from two
narrow reefs. Last year this mine crushed
a total of 297 tons for 2760 z. of smelted gold
and about 3 tons of concentrates, carrying
approximately 21 oz.
* * «£ *
At the Talisman, the best mine on the old
Mount Peter goldfield (N.Q.), a well-defined
fissure lode is being worked to a depth of
40ft. Thus far the shoot has been
proved over a length of 140 ft., and con-
tinues strong in both directions. A recent
crushing of 10 tons 4cwt. gave an average
return of 3oz. 14dwt. per ton. Other promis-
ing cla.ms on the field are the Golden Bar,
where some high-quality stone awaits crush-
ing; the Mount View, where prospects go
loz. to the ton; the Alpine, the Twins and
Lucky Wednesday. There are several others
from which crushings have failed to realise
expectations.
* * « 0
The Venus State Battery at Charters
lowers (N.Q.) has just completed the most
productive two months’ run for the last 15
years. Thirty-six crushings, aggregating 324
tons, were treated for 5140 z. 15dwt. of gold,
valued at £2833, including the premium.
Bast year the battery was leased by the
Government to a private concern, which was
also to carry out all public crushings, the
sands being taken over by the State Mines
Department for treatment by cyanide. In
the battery crushed 1435 tons for
12920 z.
’•* *£•
The two bores sunk by a Charters Towers
syndicate on the northern extension of the
Bt. Patrick d.d not tuin out as expected;
so the plant was shifted to the northern
portion of Mystery Flat. Here No. 3, after
passing through about 22ft. of formation and
leaders, picked up the granite footwall at
l_oft. _ At 296 ft. the objective, the old
Columbia reef, showed 2ft. of quartz, assay-
ing lOdwt. 21gr. gold, worth £3 13s. lOd. at
present prices. Ao. 4 bore is now going
down 300 ft. east of No. 3; it is expected
to pass through the first formation at 230 ft.,
and to tap the Columbia at 500 ft. Many a
shaft on the Towers has been sunk on
smaller prospect than, shown in No. 3.
* * * •
Asia Amalgamated Tin has optioned a
tailings dump on a Queensland mine. The
heap, estimated to contain 130,000 tons of
ofdwt. stuff, is now being check bored.
* * =:< *
Great Southern Mines, a Melbourne co.,
lias acquired three 30-acre leases in the Dart
Kiver district, about 50 miles from Tallan-
gatta. (Vic.). The lode, which forms a
prominent outcrop for over a half-mile, con-
sists of complex arsenical ore, assaying up
to Jsdwt, of gold per ton. When worked
about 35 years ago, treatment difficulties
stood in the way, but recent developments
have altered the outlook in this respect.
* * # $
At Moliagul (Vie.), where numerous
small nuggets have been found lately 35
tons from the Sheoak Reef main shaft has
been crushed for 22-Joz. gold. The reef is
4ft. wide.
Chapman’s Gold Mines Go. has now several
properties in Centralia located by the ela-
borately-equipped expedition which left Bris-
bane some months ago. Four boring plants
ar e being sent across, from Queensland for
coring and water finding. Wireless reports
from. Centralia say that core drilling on
Jennings Block has shown gold down t 0 75ft.
* * * *
Last week the Acting Chief Justice in
Westralia decided that a tributor was en-
titled to 50 p.c. of the premium paid by the
Royal Mint on gold delivered at the mint
far conversion into sovereigns. This deci-
sion was in respect of an action brought by
Frank Scriven, a Boulder tributor, against
the Great Boulder Pty. Under agreement
ore won by Scriven was purchased by the
co. on a 90 p.c. assay value at £4 per fine
ounce. The ore was treated by the co., and
the gold recovered was deposited at the
Royal Mint, Perth, to be coined. The re-
sultant sovereigns were then bought by the
mint at the statutory price for standard
gold plus exchange at the ruling rate Aus-
tralia/London. The co. was granted a stay
of proceedings for 14 days, during which
time an appeal against the decision may be
lodged. Amongst other things, the co. con-
tended that the agreement between Scriven
and itself amounted to a straight-out sale
and purchase, and not to a contract between
a tributor and the owner of a treatment
plant relating to the treatment of gold ore.
At the moment another case relating to
tributors’ rights to 50 p.c. of the exchange
premium on gold is listed for hearing before
the Privy Council.
Both S. African and Westralian gold-min-
ing shares have been strongly supported on the
London market by Yankee and French in-
vestors. Paris has had a leaning towards
Jewburg stock and New York towards
Wilunas. An order for 10,000 Wilunas was
placed at 325. the other day; the market has
moved up since. According to reports from
Tlirogmorton-street, Boulder Perseverance
has decided to offer shareholders the bal-
ance of the 50,000 £1 10 p.c. profit-sharing
notes. At the current price of the issued
notes this would be equivalent to a bonus
of 4d. per share in English currency.
* * * *
When mining news is scarce in the West
the local newspapers keep the pot simmering
by pointing to the London extravagance of
tne big gold cos. The latest complaint is
that Lake View paid away £21,000 last
year in office expenses, salaries, directors’
fees, etc.; Great Boulder, £4500; Boulder
Perseverance, £4000; South Kalgurli, £3000;
Wiluna, nearly £6OOO. Great Boulder’s
directors got the biggest fees; one received
£lOOO extra to visit the mine.
❖ ❖ *
Westralia’s goldfields are being feverishly
prospected for new finds, but thus far with-
out conspicuous success. The increase in
the gold yield since the decline was arrested
in 1930 has mostly come from old producing
shows. Wiluna has lately become a
welcome addition to the source of supply,
but more Wilunas are required to offset de-
pletion of the big producers at Kalgoorlie,
which is taking place at the rate of half
a million tons a year.
* * S *;»
During recent years there has been a very
gratifying decrease in silicosis (miners’
complaint) among Westralian goldminers.
In 1925, when the first detailed medical ex-
amination was made, . 80.5 p.c. of the 4020 men
examined were found to be normal, the other
B.S p.c. showed advanced symptoms of sili-
cosis, For 1931 the corresponding figures
were 84 p.c. and 3.7 p.c. respectively.. Still
further improvement can be expected. With
water-fed, hollow-steel rock drills, and ample
auxiliary ventilation in development dead-
ends and stopes, careful wetting down of
the broken ore before and during shovelling
and restriction of firing to end of shift, the
chances of miners’ complaint being con-
tracted have been reduced to a minimum.
f.* * * *
A selected parcel of 17 J tons from the
Esplein d’Or mine, Goongamc (W.A.), was
recently put through a Kalgoorlie battery
for 183 oz. gold. The tailings assayed 9dwt.
World gold production for 1932 has been
estimated at 22.8 million ounces fine, com-
pared, with 21.3 million in 1931, 20.1. million
in 1930 and 19.5 million in 1029. The 1932
estimate is 100,000 oz. more than the peak
production in 1917. In 1931 85 of the larger
mines wpn 15.8 million ounces from 48.9
million tons, an average of 6;l;dwt, and paid
about £13,000,000 (gold basis) in dividends.
The bulk of the world’s gold is recovered at
a cost of ,17s. per ton of ore treated, and
the average profit is 25 to 35 p.c. of the
value of the output. The richest mine of
any size is the Ashanti in West Africa, the
ore averaging 22dwt. On the other hand the
Alaska T uneau, U.S.A., pays divs. on less
than 2dwt. stuff, mining from underground
four million tons annually. The St. John de
Rey, in Brazil, is-the “father” of goldmines,
having been in production continuously for
101 years; last year it recovered 115 OOOoz.
from 221,800 tons, and paid good dividends.
At "the end of 1929, when the rush to
equip properties in Malaya had begun to die,
there . were no less than 119 dredges operat-
ing there. Many of these were working -Jib.
ground, which became unprofitable with tin
at £l2O for all but the 220,000 < c.yd.
machines. As a result of this and the
restriction scheme only 42 dredges are now
in operation.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Position and prospects of the North Aus.
Woollen and Worsted Mills? —2389.
As a woollen-milling business it has been
consistently unprofitable, and efforts are
being made to sell the top-making plant.
Recently the co. was granted a franchise for
the supply of electric-light and -power to
Charters Towers, and reticulation is in pro-
gress. At Nov. 30 last shareholders’ funds
totalled £69 900, of which losses had swal-
lowed £27.061. Electric light debentures
totalled £6500; sundry creditors figured for
£6210. Cash and book debts totalled £10,226:
stocks, £1348; electric-light plant, £9464:
mill plant, £24,923; buildings, etc., £9588.
There appears to be a reasonable prospect
of the electricity section earning profits. But
what is left of the share capital is all repre-
sented by buildings and mill equipment;
much, therefore, depends upon the co.’s suc-
cess or otherwise in selling the woollen plant,
and upon the extent to which it has to go
into debt to finance the electrical under-
taking.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.D.8.: (1) Last dividend declared and paid in
December, 1931; the low price of copper and small
return from investments in fertiliser industry stood
in the way of the usual July distribution. (2) Yes.
(8) Under £lO exempt. Over £lO duty is Is. (4)
Where not merely the property in the goods, but also
the possession of them has passed to the buyer, the
unpaid sellers’ only remedy is to sue for the price.
... .L.G.: (1) Certainly not. (2), (3), (4) and
(5), Yes, (6) Hazardous.... Crotax: You are en-
titled to deduct £5O from total income in respect
of each child under 16 years of age. No deduction
is allowed after 16 A.P.R.C.: (1) Reduction of
capital has improved co.’s chances of paying a
div.; hold on. (2) Nothing to suggest it at the
moment A.E.T.: Australian National Shale Oil
Co., the Grace Building, 77 York-street, Sydney....
T.W.N.: Write to W. H. Waddell, manager Mer-
cantile Exchange, 380 Collins-street, Melbourne, C.l.
. ...A.E.8.; (1) Under Interest Reduction Act pref.
div. is reduced to 5.S p.c. as from Oct. 1, 1931.
You may have to wait for a while, but the scrip is
well worth holding. (2) No record of it;
can you supply balance-sheets?... .CJ.H.C.: Capital
lost can be, and is, frequently written off. If the
articles do not authorise the step proposed to be
taken, it would be first necessary to pass a special
resolution amending the articles. Then another
special resolution should be passed incorporating
the exact terms of the proposed reduction. Next
application is made to the Court for the necessary
confirmation. The main considerations enquired into
by the Court are the effect upon (1) creditors and
(2) shareholders inter se... .R.G.0.: Electrolytic
Refining and Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd., 25
O’Connell-street, Sydney. Harrington’s, Ltd., 386
George-street, Sydney.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
The Trade of China
“S.J.T.”: A Melbourne flour merchant
recently protested against the proposed
appointment of trade commissioners in the
“Far East,” alleging that they were “an
unwarranted extravagance, and useless and
expensive experiments.” America, Japan
and Germany are admittedly the three most
organised and persistent investigators of
trade possibilities in the Orient. Here are
the results of their “useless and expensive
experiments” as set out in the annual report
of the Chinese Maritime Customs.
During the eight-year period of 1923 to
1930 inclusive, Japan increased her direct
exports to China by 116 million ITaikwan
taels, America by 78 million taels, Germany
by 36 million taels. Incidentally, “Aus-
tralia, Maoriland, etc.,” recorded an im-
provement of four million taels. The total
value of the direct foreign imports of China
for the individual years 1923 and 1930 was
2276 million taels, of which Japan’s share
was 538 million taels, America’s 327 mil-
lions and Germany’s 101 millions; “Aus-
tralia, Maoriland, etc.,” under 11 million
taels. America, Japan and Germany—
three of the 50 countries listed as exporting
to China —were able to obtain almost half of
China’s vast direct foreign import trade.
“Australia, Maoriland, etc.,” failed to obtain
more than one half of 1 per cent. For the
later period, 1929 and 1930, the percentage
contributed by America, Japan and Ger-
many was even greater; that of “Australia,
Maoriland, etc.,” was still under 1 p.c.
As it is obvious that few Australian mer-
chants are fully aware of the significance
of China’s import trade, the following figures,
showing the values in millions of Haikwan
taels, should at least give a fresh impetus
to Australian efforts to obtain a better share
of this market, the “most potential and im-
portant in the world to-day”:—
Import Value in Millions of Haikwan Taels.
, Imports cf
Japan. U.S.A. Gt. Britain.
1923 .. 211.02 154.44 120.39
1924 .. 234.76 190.95 126.01
1925 . . 299.75 142.51 ' 93.13
1926 .. 336.90 187.64 116.26
1927 .. 293.79 166.79 75.07
1928 .. 319.29 205.54 113.75
1929 .. 323.12 230.84 119.14
1930 .. 327.16 232.40 108.25
In every case the figures of Britain, the real
and splendid pioneer of modern China’s
foreign-trade development, have persistently
been eclipsed by those of America, the lead-
ing exponent of the trade-commissioner prin-
ciple in the expansion of foreign trade.
Australia in China
“O-Mei-Shan” (from Tientsin, China) :
The Australian manufacturer does not go
after business in the manner of his rivals.
This is particularly noticeable with those who
handle canned goods. The American manufac-
turer always quotes C.I.F. Shanghai or
whatever the port of destination. It helps
business considerably. The Australian, on
the other hand, merely quotes F. 0.8. Bris-
bane, Sydney or Melbourne, as the case may
be. This, whilst being exceedingly simple
for the manufacturer, leaves the dealer up
in the air as regards the ultimate cost of
his goods. Quoting C.I.F. may mean a
little speculation on the part of the manu-
facturer; but when competitors apparently
find no difficulty in quoting G.1.F., it is hard
to see how the Australian can expect to get
business by quoting F. 0.8. The importer
here requires to know what his goods will
cost him landed, exclusive of duty, for thus
only can he quote a firm price to the dealers
in the commodities he is offering. When it
is a case of choosing between goods of equal
merit, one quoted C.1.F., the other F. 0.8.,
the Chinese importer will always buy the
former.
Invoices and covering documents from
Australian manufacturers are not always
what they should be. Invoices from three
well-known Australian packing firms were
recently brought under my notice. They
left one with the impression that “repeat”
orders were not wanted. As these goods
were a trial shipment, it was most neces-
sary to give the importer a favorable im-
pression. It would appear as if the opposite
was intended. Another letter, replying to a
request for samples, states: “Quality of
these goods is so well known we do not
think it necessary to forward samples.” The
quality may be as stated, and the goods may
be well known in Australia, but statements
like these cut no ice with importers here,
and certainly do not lead to business.
Another matter worthy of consideration
is the apparent neglect of the manufacturer
to impress on the prospective buyer the
favorable rate of exchange. This is a big
asset for the Australian manufacturer, par-
ticularly when he is competing with goods
from the U.S.A. The prices on the invoices
and lists previously mentioned were in two
cases quoted as being in Australian cur-
rency; the other merely quoted “£ s. d.”
leaving it to the prospective buyer to do his
own guessing.
In such a highly competitive trade as
canned goods, factors such as these, tending
towards a lower price, help greatly to
secure business. Australian quality may be
as good as American, but the grading, pack-
ing, advertising and general get-up of the
goods from the U.S.A. are better than the
Australian, and that calls for extra effort
on the part of Australian salesmen.
Tram and ’Bus
“Union Officer”; The official figures show
that the Sydney ’buses, in their last
year of unrestricted competition, carried 92
million passengers. That year the trams car-
ried 40 million more passengers, than trains
and ’buses combined ! The loading all over
the world favors the tram as a carrier.
Even in Britain the trams carry 3000 mil-
lion more passengers than the ’bus. In the
U.S.A. they carry nine to every one carried
by ’bus. Berlin has a ratio of 4 to 1, Paris
2 to 1. That is in countries where motor
manufacturing industries are commonplace
and fuel and oil comparatively cheap. The
number of men displaced by the 1931 Act has
assumed gigantic proportions with interested
parties. Previous to the Act 483 ’buses were
employing 2079 men and boys. To-day 312
’buses are operating. Allowing the same
proportion of labor (figures are not avail-
able), there should be 1248 employed, or
only 831 less. The railways and tramways
have absorbed many more than that.
Butter in S. America
“Carlos” : South America should be a
market for Australian butter.- I’ve sold it
there. A while ago I made a voyage on a
sailing-ship to a Peruvian port. I was the
ordinary seaman of the starboard watch,
and it fell to me to be “peggy” while in
port. It was my duty, besides scrubbing
the fo’c’s’le, to scrape out the mess-kids and
go aft for stores twice a week. The butter
we got was tinned—a brand put up in
Sydney. She wasn’t a mean ship for butter,
and every butter-day there was a bit left
in the butter kids; this I carefully scraped
out and put in a 71b. treacle-tin. Every
alternate Saturday afternoon, when the
starboard watch got liberty (we were an-
chored a mile or more from a beach), I took
that treacle-tin ashore; and the port watch
used to wonder where I got all the booze
money. The Peruvians simply rushed me
after they got to know what the treacle-tiu
contained. I forget now how many centavos
per spoonful I charged them, but the star-
board watch got so blasted drunk one Satur-
day afternoon that even the skipper woke
up to something.... And I was only a mug
sailor; a live salesman who could speak
Spanish should write big orders.
1
, . , , ,
Valerm : In spite of the 9d. per pound
or thereabouts averaged for wool sold in
Sydney, growers are actually getting no
larger cheques than they did last season,
because wool sold this season shows a defi-
nite decline of 10 per cent, at least in con-
dition-weight, due to shortage of feed through
droughty conditions and overstocking.
* * * *
Many quaint suggestions for relieving un-
employment reach this office. Last week’s
best ran: “Start out washing domestic dogs
and cats. Many fashionable ladies would
avail themselves of the service, I am sure.”
s: * * *
China is tackling the problem of repair-
ing its disorganised railways, and Austra-
lian sawmillers and sleeper-cutters will
benefit, if they can make the prices right,
The Australian sleeper is dearer and heavier
than the pine of Oregon, but prices are
to-day nearer a competitive level than for
some time past. The Government of Hankow
has called for bids for 400,000 sleepers, China
size (Bft. by 9in. by 4iin.), and The Bul-.
letin learns from the Pacific coast that the
sawmillers of the Columbia river are making
a concerted move to get the business. But
inquiries are also moving through Austra-
lian sawmillers, who are hopeful that their
offers will secure at least a good-sized order,
if not the whole.
* * * *
What exchange does. The year’s figures
0 f the Vic. Electricity Commission show a
profit of only £3031. It would have been
£153,723, but exchange (mostly on money
sen t to pay interest) ran off with £150,692.
* * * *
“Tamrookum” : There is no basis for the
belief, which I believe is widely held in the
South, that the cost of producing sugar is
due to the high prices paid for land. The
average unimproved value of cane land would
be under £lO an acre. Prom such land,
including land under fallow, one could
expect an average of two tons raw sugar
a year. At 6 p.c. on £lO, the rental value
of the land would represent 6s. a ton of
raw sugar. Recently some cleared l an d ot
excellent quality was sold in one of the best
sugar districts m North Queensland It car-
ned that right of supplying the mill whie i
is called assignment. It would yield three
toas raw sugar to the acre and the rental
value would represent less than 5s a ton
of raw sugar Critics of ths industry will
have to look elsewhere for the high costs,
J
Since it commenced operations the Queens-
land Prickly-pear Land Commission has dis-
tributed over 2,000,000,000 eggs of cacto-
blastis cactorum. Attracted by the Corn-
missions success, India, Ceylon, New Gale-
donia, Canada, the United States and South
America have all sought details ot Queons-
lands method of destruction, and have all
imported consignments of the caterpillai
from Queensland for liberation m their own
9 1 , e areas ’ , S Africa there aie
12,000.000 acres under pear and a repre-
sentative of the Union s Department of
Agriculture is now in Queensland studying
t j ie sma n destroyer. Queensland’s own first
supp i ies came f rom the Argentine, the ori-
ginal home of the insect,
# a . * *
, , _ „ , , T ., .
Shark and lurtle 1 roducts, Ltd., has
leased five islands off the North Queensland
coast, and hopes to establish a shark and
turtle industry. During the past 10 years
two turtle-canning factories have been
started in N.Q., but neither lasted long; one
factory sold 70,000 tins of soup in one year,
an< l then could not make it pay.. Turtle
soup and turtle flesh (frozen or dried) are
in good demand, and with judicious manage-
ment a factory should do well. In the
shark industry there are large possibilities
on paper; whether in practice this venture
"will do any better than its predecessors,
°my time can tell,
* * * * *
“H.S.”; Give the makers of Australian
cigarette papers a caution, will you? After
a bad run, I carefully examined a new book,
and found just on 50 p.c. either wholly or
partly ungummed. They can’t do that sort
of thing and expect to keep their tariffs.
LANG WAS WRONG!
LANG; .“Dash it, Plum, those blood-sucking capitalistic bondholders didn’t rush us like that.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal (com. Saturday) “Ghosts'’
Hek Majesty’s “Hold My Hand
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING,WEEK.
Royal Gilbert arid Sullivan Opera
King’s “Autumn Crocus”
State Movies and Talkies
It is the considered opinion of this Show-
man, arrived at after a week-end spent in
meditation and prayer, that “Ruddigore
should be quietly taken out and buried m
the Melb. Theatre Royal back yard. If the
Royal hasn’t a back yard the piece, might
be towed outside the Heads, and its sea-
cocks opened. The crew, since they will
still have portions of “Ruddigore ’ in their
heads, should be made to understand that
if they recite or sing any of Sullivan’s songs
in a public place they will be guilty ot a
felony; and if Ivan Menzies cracks any ot
Gilbert’s polysyllabic jokes within hearing ot
a ratepayer or other reputable citizen he
shall be considered to have committed an
indictable offence. Mr. Menzies is guilty on
two counts. He not only cracks Gilberts
incomprehensible jokes, but be sings Sum-
van’s songs; and there is only one voice
in the world worse than Mr. Menzies’s, and
that is Greta Garbo’s. Finally, to expugu
“Ruddigore” from the public mind, it should
be declared a misdemeanor of the first class
for any person to adapt or imitate the
shuffle business with which Mary Hotham
and John Ralston diversify the final act, and
for which, on the night this Showman was
there, they got, or thought they got, two
encores. That people should solemnly case
themselves in evening dress, and solemnly
allow themselves to be driven to a
theatre in limousines, and solemnly sit
through two acts and an interval, in order
to enjoy the spectacle of Menzies, "Hotham
and Ralston scuffling aroun'd like that, is
more than any fellow can understand ; and
it i$ less understandable why, having had
one dose of it and knowing what it is like,
they should clap in such afway- ; as to, bring
two more doses down upon tlieir- heads.
The only rational explanation’, is that/out-
side ushers and dramatic Critics,' 25 p.c. ot
the audience were Judge:; taking a ■ refresher
course in Gilbertian pffns for use in/ divorce
and libel eases; 25 p.c. were leadeLwriters
studying I’v* famous) Gilbert: topsy-turvy-
Dorothy Peters in
Autumn Crocus,” at
Melb. King’s.
ness, for use when
their employers re-
verse the : policy of
their : papers;- 25
. pic/ were gfiimme
Gilbert - and . Sulli-
van' right-thinkers'
putting the mod-
ern jar«y world in
its • place ; and the
remaining -25 -p.V.
persons who
thought it was a
talkie and found
out their mistake
too late. Most of
the last appeared
to be gsleep.
“Ruddigore” is
all about a Bart,
wlio s e, ancestors
step down from
their frames in the
picture gallery of
a cas 11 e au d
threaten him with
a horrible and
agonising death if
he does not obey
the family curse
and coin m i t a
crime a day. It is
supposed to be a
satire on melo-
drama, but a satire
ought to be at least
as entertaining as
the thing satirised,
and “East Lynne”
is jolly alongside
“Ruddigore.” It
may have been
biting enough in 1887, but it has only
got gums to bite with now. If Gil-
bert were alive to-day he would not
write a thing like “Ruddigore.” He
would write a satire on the Gilbert and
Sullivanites who believe they are being enter-
tained by “Ruddigore” when they are actu-
ally being bored to tears.
The Bulletin’s Office Flapper, asked if
she would like to go to “Ruddigore,” said,
“Nothing makes me sick.” She was wrong
for once.
V *
This Showman takes his hat -off to Sullivan
and Gilbert for “lolanthe,” staged at Melb.
Royal on Saturday. To hold the House of
Peers and a Lord Chancellor up to the de-
risory contemplation of English audiences
must have been a revolutionary thing to do
in 1882. In “lolanthe” Sullivan reached high-
water mark. The music, in fact, is better than
the libretto, which is often only interesting as
showing what people liked 50 years ago. Tak-
ing into consideration the circumstance that
the co. lias no better Strephon available than
Gregory Stroud, the production was admir-
able in every way. The Earls Mountararat-
and Tolloller were in the capable hands of
Leo Darnton and Bernard Manning, and Ivan
Menzies was thoroughly at home in the robes
of the Lord Chancellor. Evelyn Gardiner
was an intensely regal fairy queen, with a
contralto of aristocratic quality. As Phyllis,
Marie Bremner was in her best r6le to date.
She had all the appropriate artificiality of
an animated Dresden china doll. Thirty
years’ residence at the bottom of a pond
seemed to have affected the acting of Mary
Hotham’s lolanthe without impairing her
voice. The fairies in high-heeled shoes and
the peers in gorgeous raiment were a melo-
dious testimonial to William Quintroll's
methods of musical drill. But if .T.C.W.
don’t want to kill G. and S. stone-dead in
the present decade they should encourage
their actors to modify their enthusiasm for
singing things twice, except when a majority
of the audience shows in u-nmistakeabh
fashion that it shares said enthusiasm.
The first two items in the second all-Aus-
iralian evening of the Little Theatre, Mel-
bourne, were by members of the medical pro-
fession. “Musical Chairs,” by Dr. Gerald
Weigall, was about a married Frenchwoman
who accompanied a passing Englishman to a
country cafe, where their tite-a-tete was
brought to an abrupt conclusion through the
Englishman over-indulging in mushrooms,
“Should a Doctor Tell?.” by Dr. Cecil F.
Tucker, concerned a medico who found a
burglar rifling his safe/ Tlie burglar turned
out to be a Digger who served in the doctor’s
battalion. By a still more remarkable coin-
cidence, the doctor had just been operating
Mona Barlee and Campbell Copelin as the
companionately-married couple in
“Autumn Crocus
on the infant son of the burglar, who straight-
way handed over the loot and his revolver and
went home to wait for the police. The sur-
geon ; rang ap the police, but-his better nature
triumphed and he replaced the'receiver. “The
Squall,’-’ a tragedy in two scenes by Mrs.
Coulson' Davidson, was of sterner stuff. It
was a thoughtful study of the sort of woman
who puts all her emotional eggs in one
basket—in this case , her family. Family is
lost in a yachting, misadventure, and there
is an extremely powerful scene, where hfcr
wanderings on the beach after , the disaster
are - described by watchersfrom a window-
Mrs. .Davidson play.ed'the leading role as if
in a trance, and was convincing. The only,
defect in an admirable, sketch >vas a sen :
tentious friend of the family, heavily handled
by H'al Percy. The final item was “The
Creative Urge,” by Judg6 Beeby. The
sketch of the elderly accountancy clerk who
sits up all flight trying to write a play,
because he has heard that every man has at
least: one play in his head if it only will out,
evoked continuous laughter, some of the
credit for which ought to go to 11. N. Gregory.
Gwen Munro, as a daughter who understands
the old. man, also helped. The Little Theatre
stage is not much bigger than a- telephone
booth and it is extraprdinary how the pro-
ducers create the atmosphere they aim at.
The* staging of “The Squall” was a con-
spicuous example,
* * #
The Vic. Prof. Orchestra, under Henri
■ Penn, y failed to distinguish/ itself in a con-
cert at Melbourne Town "Hall, in which the
principal item was Beethoyen’s Sixth Sym-
phony. Nobody would?have needed a brolly
in the storm of the Third Movement, and the
French horns appeared to be playing some-
thing of their own invention. 4 Wagner, in a
series of Assorted numbers, received better
treatment.' A contribution hy , a/local com-
poser of apparently tefider, years would have
been puf in the waste-paper basket, by any
competent musical sub-editor.
# # 9
If J. M. Barrie had been born a Vien-
nese he would have experienced no difficulty
in writing a play like Ferenc Molnar’s “The
Good Fairy,” produced by the Margaret
Rawlings co. at Melbourne King’s. Mol-
nar’s infant is the hybrid offspring of
Gallic cynicism, crossed with German senti-
mentality. Here are all the stock char-
acters out of Thrums modified to suit the
sophisticated palates of the theatregoers of
a European capital reputed to be gay in the
most sinister sense of the term. Lu, the
moving-picture glowworm masquerading as
a married woman, who offers to surrender
her virtue to the South American meat-
packer. Konrad, on the understanding that her
paramour should give an important post to
Harry Wotton and Katie Towers as post-
war Germans in “Autumn Crocus.”
her lawyer husband, whom she selects from
the telephone directory, has all the whimsi-
cality of a Mary ’ Rose, plus overtones of
the Mdinar naughtiness. A necessary in-,
gradient is the mild dash of reality supplied
bv Barry K. Barnes as the 50-year-old Dr.
Max Sporum, a lawyer who has failed
because of his stern determination to be
“ethical,” but. who consents to be a party to
Lu's plot provided the contract with -Konrad-
is signed -before -the lady takes her. selLs
sacrificing header, into the waters of iniquity.
A further specimen of Barrie whimsicality
is the arrival in Dr. Sporum’s apartments,
in the first scene of the third act, of fresh
office equipment, including a patent pencil-
sharpener, on which the dear old gentleman
has set his heart all his life; The subsequent
curtain is pure'- Barrie. Lu turns up and
announces that she has retained her Virtue
unimpaired and is about to marry her
fiance, the head waiter in a fashionable
hotel. Dr. Sporum, saved vicariously from
sin by Lu’s failure to fulfil her contractual
obligations to the meat man, is delighted
and sends his purchases back, but cannot
forego his innocent childlike affection for
the pencil-sharpener, which he is using as
the cloth slowly descends. * The final flight
from reality is made per medium of Teutonic
symbolism, when Lu, having invited to
dinner all the men she-has kept on tenter-
hooks during the first two acts, greets each
ecstatically as the ' husband to’ whom she
Ims been faithfully and happily, united for
ten years. Present critic found the presence
of four Lu husbands: on the stage “"at- one
and the same time/somewhat puzzling, but
presumes that it . was meant to imply' that
Woman is the Good Fairy to Everyman.
Margaret Rawlings’s Lu gets all the laughs
to be expected when a playwright presents an
essentially moronic female character walking
Mercia-like into the don of Male Lust and
emerging unscathed. Barry Barnes’s Sporum
is touching in his simple devotion to the
legal ideas of propriety. Mary Cobb acts
sedately as another ; Barrie type who weeps
over her lawyer boss’s predicament, and E.
Bellenden Clarke’s, now well-known .manner
is at the service of the amorous, packer
of meats.
*• ■ te. * * :
Perth Repertory Club, emerged from its
Pier-street lair for a three-night' season in
the. Royal. “A Murder Has Been. Arranged”
needs a deal of good acting to, 'get, across
the footlights, but the cast chosen- managed
the job. Harold Lalor, a beautifullyrgroomed
villain; polished off his victim with aplomb.
Dorothy* Mark was clever'in her creepy role.
Molly- Ick as the Cockney cook, Edith Beck
as -* the - heroine’s interfering mother," Mrs.
Alan- Stubbs and Joyce Fuller were- all up
to 'the (.mark. John Brooks persuaded the '
audience of his good' faitli, and Alex. Foster
became a corpse convincingly.
At Melb. Bijou, which has reverted to
vaudeville, the efforts of George Ward; Fred '
Bluett and’company to entertain the multi-
tude ' received poor support last week from
W. L. : (Young) Strihling and a number of
lantern slides depicting his. career from the
time When he. started planting- cauliflower
ears on the physiognomies of his nursery
mates. As a pendant to the show, a local
pug iwas allowed to injure ■ liis - knuckles
against! Stribling’s head.' The rest of the i
entertainment is f.a.q. variety, eneap at the
price—a bob.
Theo. Shall, as he looks in "Autumn
Crocus.”
A piquant item in Melb. Tivoli is Fred
McDonald as the Dave of “On Our Selec-
tion,” in the beard which he grew for the
screen play. The art of Jack Russell, the
American comedian, continues to receive
public recognition. This week he is appear-
ing in “The Lady’s Stocking,” plus a normal
amount of masculine clothes.
* ¥ *
Next year the Firm will import a com-
pany to play Somerset Maugham’s “Bread-
winner,” Fagan’s “And So to Bed,” a stage
version of Stevenson’s “Treasure Island,”
Galsworthy’s “Escape” (seen here in ama-
teur hands) and Tithcradge’s “The Crooked
Billet.” Another crowd will produce
“Waltzes from Vienna” in January.
The PaletteT
As a producer of slick water-color re-
minders of favored beauty spots, done to a
formula but with just enough realism in
them to impress the man-in-the-street, there
are no flies on Harold Herbert (Fine Arts,
Melbourne). Mr. Herbert is so sauve and
accomplished in the use of his recipe that
he can throw off whole ranges of mountains
with more apparent ease and confidence than
a great master trying to render a ginger-jar
correctly. Oils being an unaccustomed
medium to him, he has not attempted too
much, and there is more in his “Bourke-
street” than in his sunniest water-color.
In the Vic. Artists’ Society’s spring show
there is a portrait of his mother by
W. B. Mclnnes; a “Hot’ Spring Day,”
by Nora Gordon, which captures some' of
the atmosphere suggested by the title; a
fairly solid “Kathleen,” by P. Hurry; a
“Gleaming River,” in which Aileen Dent
has laid herself open to an approving adjec-
tive, and a number of small landscapes by
E. Bnckmaster, whose painting has become
as. .conventionalised as the acting of an
Italian operatic tenor.
The Alec Melrose prize for portrait-paint-
ittg,‘ which has in seven years done a lot to
raise the standard of that art in Adelaide,
goes this year to George Whinnen for a
strung-and rather Orpen-like military figure.
; The versatile Whinnen has already taken
awards for landscape- and flower studies.
S.A. Society of Arts has elected as presi-
dent, replacing L. H. Howie after five years'
service, Leslie Wilkie, the old Victorian who
is now Curator of Adelaide Art Gallery.
H. E. Fuller continues as secretary. He
has been a member for exactly 40 years and
treasurer for 35 of them.
The landscape prize in S. A. Society of
Arts’ spring show goes to Max Ragless for
a very moderate pool-in-a-quarry, with un-
convincing rocks —the fatal snare of many a
painter. The finest thing in the room is
by Charles Wheeler, a glorious nude-with-
mirror, “Fragoletta”; but Bernard Hall and
Leslie Wilkie have fine figure-work, too.
Young Nora Heysen experiments in it, with
a rather hard result. Her flowers are as
near-perfect as ever. Eldershaw and Rowell
dominate the landscape section; and Adel-
aide Art Gallery recognises Roy Parkinson
as a coming man by buying his coast-scene
at Nambucca. An unusually strong show.
Shadow Shows.
“Rebound,” at Sydney Plaza, has some of
the defects of a feeble Elstree production:
the plot is thin and the camera stands still
while the characters talk at inordinate
length. Ina Claire catches Robert Williams
on the rebound after he has been turned down
by Myrna Loy in favor of a multi-million-
aire. The trouble begins in the U.S.A., con-
tinues in Paris and is brought to a satis-
factory conclusion in its country of origin
with the heroine wise-cracking like a
machine-gun to the end. The meals typify
the artificiality of the show. All movie
meals are sketchy—a hearty dinner is repre-
sented by a stab at a grape-fruit in most
of them—-but here, in the course of a break-
fast and a couple of luncheons, nobody but
Miss Claire makes so much as a pretence
of eating; and all she does is to nibble at
a fragment of toast in one or two of her
rare moments of silence. Admirers of the
star’s’ brand of comedy may like the play;
'there‘is virtually no one eise in it.
“While ■ Paris Sleeps” resembles “While
London Sleeps,” which used to be staged
periodically in Australia 30-odd years ago,
but the ; plot is more preposterous, and the
French 'characters have; rasping Bowery
accents. Victor McLaglen is a disgraced
war-hero who escapes from: prison, and with-
' out revealing his identity safeguards his
daughter. The daughter, who is innocent
to the point of imbecility, cherishes) his Croy
de Geer and loves a young concertina-player.
• The climax comes when McLaglen burns
down the house of shame in which the two
young people are employed and perishes in
the flames, having first provided them with
funds from the proceeds of a robbery. The
t photography is picturesque; a series of shots
of Paris as it may have looked when the
elaborate rebuilding and modernisation
schemes which have been in progress since
the first empire were begun.
¥ # *
“Merrily We Go to Hell,” at Sydney
Prince Edward, might appropriately possess
the sub-title, “After Emma Jane Worboise;
issued under the auspices of the W.C.T.U.”
We get the likeable inebriate; the poor little
rich girl who insists on marrying him with
a view to his reform; the intrusive Other
Woman (an actress, of course) ; the faint
which reveals imminent motherhood to every
woman in the audience, and the reconcilia-
tion of husband and wife over an empty bas-
sinet. Wasted on all this ancient sobstuff
are Fredric March, who is quietly funny
in some of the earlier sequences; Sylvia Sid-
ney, plain but piquant, and expressive as to
her remarkable eyes; Adrienne Allen, lay-
ing a vigorous trail of pure English through
the prevailing Hollywoodese, and the Aus-
tralian Bob Greig, who strikes a note of
comedy as a baritone. If this be Hell that
blithe bourne has been grossly over-rated;
its merriment is labored and wholly alcoholic.
* *
The action of “Burnt Offering,” at Sydney
Regent, occurs in West Africa. The time
is pre-war, so that sulky beauty Elissa
Landi wears the latest boater and long skirts.
She has fled from London to dodge the
Divorce (Court. The war arrives, and she
marries Alex. Kirkland, a charming young
German officer, to escape being interned.
And so with him to his jungle post. Warner
Oland, Kirkland’s Prussian father, taunts
her with her past, and now Paul Lukas
arrives to map a route for an attack on the
British settlement. She is suspected of
pinching the map—being, with all her fail-
ings, a patriotic Englishwoman—and Kirk-
land sacrifices* himself to save her, being a
movie lover. They are all good on conven-
tional lines.
* # #
“Skyscraper Souls,” at Sydney State, is
about a capitalist, who, having been inspired
to build the tallest building in the world,
becomes so involved financially that he flings
honor, friendship and love into the sink
of his ambition; is killed by a discarded
mistress, and has liis mighty skyscraper
sold by his neglected wife a few weeks after
his death. Verree Teasdale plays the wife:
Warren William is the megalomaniac, and
Maureen O’Sullivan looks nice as one of his
several, loves.
“The Night Club Lady” is a mystery film
in which one of the strangest murder devices
known to fiction is employed. Blanche
Friderici, as the mother of the night-club
lady, and Rutlielma Stevens as a woman de-
tective, arc good. Adolphe Menjou is one ot
those strange American Commissioners ot
Police who are ’tec., prosecuting counsel and
Judges all in one.
¥ * *
“Love Is a Racket,” at the Haymarket,
gives the U.S. telephone department some
excellent publicity. The number of calls
put through hy Doug Fairbanks. Jr. (quick-
thinking journalist), Frances Dee (blonde,
who pays her way with valueless cheques
and is loved by Doug), Lysle Talbot (gang-
ster) and others must be a record, even for
the movies. It is Fairbanks’s picture.


A WISE WAY
TO 18IIY WHISKY
* #
in a fin e
/.
S
Sr
X
a
rv
\
l)
ft
*o
I
msn
«?>
>72
f j
ik-
i
W—--
£ An
■ *
* <
ft «
/ a \
M
J*
ft
a®
i^'
King george rv. whisky is well
worth buying in any container, but buy
it in one of the new decanters and you retain
not only the recollection of its excellence—
but a handsome decanter as well. King
George IV. Whisky is a noble spirit.
It possesses the mellowness and lightness
of character preferred by nine men out of
ten, combined with the rich, full flavor
only found in a whisky containing rare old
Highland Malt in requisite proportion.
The Decanter of King George IV. Whisky,
bearing no permanent advertising matter, is
on sale at all hotels and clubs at very little
extra cost on the standard quart bottle.
If you have difficulty in obtaining, ’phone or write the
distributors: Distillers Distributing Co., Ltd., Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Perth; G. F. Cleland & Sons, Adelaide; Thomas Brown
& Sons, Brisbane; Cummins & Campbell, Townsville; Walter
Reid & Co., Rockhampton, who will see you are supplied.
o\
usr. «eoiu:e iv
SwMrfuu SCOTCH WHISKY
ROYAL SPIRIT
sdf
ALL SUPERFINE
SCOTCH


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Nestor . . 14,500 tons, Oct. 18
sCeramic . . 18,500 „ Oct. 26
. . 14,500 ~ Nov. 8
*Anchises . . 10,000 „ Dec. 6
♦First class only. tCabin class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
H.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital .. .. .. ~ £241,34!
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . . . . . , . . £3,500,000
Total Reserves approximately , . . . . . . , . . £900,000
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately . . £500,000
Area Planted .. .. 132,126 Acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong, San Francisco, Vancouver and Paris.
am
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Cauitteia,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
, . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay •
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ABORIGINALITIES
“R.T.”: Few people would care to tend
a shipload of uncaged tigers, but a woman,
Dr. Jean McNamara, has volunteered for
service rather more dangerous. For some
time the Commonwealth Laboratory in Mel-
bourne has attempted to import bacilli of
cerebro-spinal meningitis, in order to
strengthen the cultures made there, but the
inconsiderate bacilli, sent in sealed tubes,
have turned up their toes en voyage. Now
Dr. McNamara, who has been engaged in
research at Harvard Paralysis Institute, has
offered to carry back meningitis cultures in
open containers, keeping them at the proper
temperature by means of thermos flasks, and
each four days subculturing them.
* * * *
“Barnacle Bill” : Every schoolboy will tell
you that a shark turns on its back to bite.
And he’ll tell you wrpug. The shark’s
tucker is as fast in the water as he is, and
to turn before biting would mean loss of
vision at a critical moment. The .shark’s
lower teeth are used for cutting—and once
lie has a hold he has to turn and throw his
weight into it. The turn comes so rapidly
that the eye is deceived.
“Elver”: “Flag w agger” (B.
28/9/’32) asks why eels from the
southern watershed of the Dividing
Range invariably work back to the
northern waters. The answer is that
all fresh-water eels, the world over,
breed in the depths of the sea. That
is why the fresh-water eel is never
found naturally in the rivers north
of the Range, which never reach salt
water save by devious courses. As to
how “Flagwagger’s” marked eels got
back to their own waters on the south-
ern slope, the explanation is easy.
They worked their way up every tiny
trickle they could find to the top of
the Divide and then, if necessary,
went overland to the first water on
the opposite slope. One of the annual
sights of the many great dams and
reservoirs of Sydney’s water supply is
the migration of the fully-matured
eels to the sea for breeding. These
never return, but their offspring, the
tiny elvers, do, and their persistence
in overcoming apparently insurmount-
able difficulties is even more wonder-
ful than the exodus of the old folk.
“HOW’D YER LIKE THE JOB OF BURYING HIM?”
NOT SHE, FOR ONE.
MINISTER: “And who was it sowed the tares?"
LIJAH TRENGROVE : “’T wadden my missus, you.”
“Hugh G.”: Each has his cross to bear.
Philosophically and without a whimper have
I borne the weighty chunk allotted me by
an unsympathetic fate. But to be burdened
with a bloke of Shorty’s gastronomic capacity
is the last straw. I met him in a rattler
going north, and when I left her at a siding
he was still with me. He still is. He had
no tucker. I boiled the billy and brought,
out a poguc of scran, and the talented
manner in which he coped with it would
have awakened envy in the breast of Tom the
Glutton. That was four nights ago. He
cleaned up the bread in short order and
I’ve been making dampers ever since. Now,
my dampers are well-known. I’ve seen
horses and goats attack them and retire
defeated, and even the best of them (the
dampers) works out at one slice, one meal,
per man. But in Shorty they have found
their m,aster. Yesterday in a last despairing
effort tolmpair his digestive organs, I set about
deliberately to turn out a soggy damper—to
me no difficult feat. Leaving him in charge
of the atrocity I went up town. I returned
to find Shorty reclining complacently on
his swag, an ecstatic smirk wreathing his
enormous mouth. “She was a boomer,” he
declared enthusiastically, and indicating a
heap of crumbs he suggested that I ought
to make another one like that. “I like them
puddin’y ones,” he stated in simple explana-
tion'!
* * * *
“Goondabluie”: A chap who got an insight
into Jimmie Tyson’s little ways was Jimmie
Gair, who managed one of his properties
beyond Mungindi. The wages were not
generous, and to help them out Mrs.
Gair kept fowls and goats. The first
visit of the boss, accompanied by his
blackboy, was an event not to be passed
lightly over, and he was made comfortable
during his week’s stay. Clean sheets were
to be seen on the bed, and clean white table-
cloth graced the dining-room table. Fresh
eggs, puddings and tea with milk were the
daily fare of Tyson. Gair was foolish enough
to imagine that when about to depart the
boss would express his pleasure at the way
in which he was entertained. Tyson’s com-
ment was short and to the. point: “Look ’ere,
Mister, you’re too comfortable here;
your screw’s reduced!” And reduced it was.
Ms =!= * *
“Kumusi”: That yarn about big sharks
(B. 28/9/’32) seems pretty feeble to me.
Up in British New Guinea in the old days
we would have used “Maloua’s” sort as
bait for the local Spanish mackerel, which
were Spanish mackerel and not the degen-
erate stuff you hear of to-day. Perhaps the
biggest shark I ever hooked was between
the mouths of the Mamba and Kumusi
rivers. There is a rock just off the coast
there known as Mitre Rock. It’s a high,
pointed pinnacle, not more than about
50 yards round, and standing on a wide
platform. A mob of us were fishing off
the platform one day when we saw what
we thought was the king of sperm whales
cruising round. Seeing he was a shark, we
had a confab, and finally fitted up the kedge
from the schooner with about 20 foot of*
chain cable,, having about 40 fathoms of
three-inch rope on that. Our cookboy was
sick and near “finish,” so we tied him
to the kedge and dropped him in. Talk
about a bite! Lucky for us I’d taken the
precaution of running a half-hitch of the
rope round the Rock. We had the ketch, with
the auxiliary going, helping us with the pull
ou the fall, but the brute heaved himself free
and left us standing. But here’s the point,
Tears before, the old Dart had certified that
Mitre Rock was in a certain position. Six
months after that shark got away along
comes the Torch to check the surveys of 30
years before. She found the ..position of
Mitre Rock to be half a mile farther out to
sea than the Dart chart recorded it.
... ...
> " * *
“R.G.”: In Ballarat the other day there
came to light a morocco-hound volume,
“Catalogue of Sir Samuel Wilson’s pure
merino ewes and rams, to be sold at Ereil-
doune, on Thursday, 30tli October, 1879.”
The book includes a comprehensive history
of the Ereildoune flocks, a plan of the
sheep pens and illustrations of the notable
sheep of the estate. Also—and this is where
Y ou weep—wool prices are given for the
years 1871 to 1877. From ’7l to ’76 the
Price per pound rose from 3s. to os.
id. In 1876 one lot of 461 bales netted
£16,264. Wilson’s rams realised from 100
*° 300 guineas each,
* * * *
<tCT „ 4 , .
LLamer .- a faithful hound, in this case
? spaniel turned aside the sword of justice
? Sydney court the other day. Its
ast . er > a street mendicant; had been in-
tlllJgl(lg m pots, and had made himself
nuisance; and it seemed likely that his
'worship would take a serious view of the
ca if e ‘ , , tae moment the spaniel.
. a{ ‘ been hovering about, created a
Aversion by entering the court and making
a beeline for the defendant. He w 7 as in the
centre of the court before his way was
barred; he paused for a moment perplexed,
then he sat up on.end and begged. As he
faced the Bench the Solomon thereon got a
full view of what appeared to be a special
plea for mercy “My dawg ” said the
offender softly. The absurd pathos of the
animal with its big appealing eyes and flop-
ping ears was too much for the magistrate,
who decided that an admonition would be
sufficient.
THE MEN WHO MADE THE WEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
' The 40th anniversary of the discovery of Cool-
gardie by Bayley and Ford was kept last month.”
They heard the call of the Kimberleys,
trackless and wild and wide.
And they mustered there from God knows
where —some tramped from the Queens-
land side.
Hall’s Creek was a name to conjure with,
and thither the venturers pressed,
Rut scant were the prizes the North could
yield for the men who made the West.
In the ’eighties still they were battling
south, ever afield and afar;
They held their line to the Nullagine, Pil-
bara, Marble Bar;
On, ever on, to the Murchison they kept
their stubborn quest,
The guild of the pick and the water-bag,
the men who made the West.
Wherever they found a patch to rake, where-
ever a reef to knap,
Magnet and Austin, Cue, .Nannine —they
put them all on the map.
Wherever was gold or hope of gold from the
frowning bush to wrest,
Slender or sure they followed the lure, the
pioneers of the West.
Lightly they set their lives a-stake orTßazai-d
of gain or loss,
Who plodded southward from Carey’s Lake
or eastward ho! from the Cross.
Then Bayley and Ford found rich reward
in the claim that their names attest,
And a shining scroll on the honor-roll of
the men who made the West.
They had blazed the track, they had paved
the way. It was but a little while
Ere the stamps were pounding all night and
day on the wealth of the Golden Mile.
And the fame and the worth to the ends
of earth had gone to crown and to crest
The work (though harvest they seldom
reaped) of the men who made the West.
Here’s a health to those who builded true,
to the diggers staunch and tried,
Frost and Hannan, Lawler and Cue —and
a hundred more beside!
And light, as their fleeting names pass by,
may the earth upon them rest,
Wherever they went, wherever they lie, the
men who made the West!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


THIS LARGE INSURANCE COMPANY
CONSIDERED THE “COURIER” TO RE
The Very Best Medium
The Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance Co. sought the most effective and economical
method of making an announcement to Queensland people. They chose the “Brisbane
Courier,” and wrote us:—
you may be interested to know that those present were unanimous in
saying that the ‘Brisbane Courier' was, the very best medium, for that was the
paper they always noticed in the homes of the people with whom they came in
contact.
(Signed) “A. J. HENDERSON,
“General Manager
The “Brisbane Courier” has been “the very best medium” for 87 years.
Z5/je
Brisbane Courier
Representative: ROBT. D. FISHER, 7'k Pitt Street, Sydney—Bsoo7.
PROGRESS
If you contemplate the future, as we all can and do, you must
gather some conception of the enormous progress that civilisation will
inevitably make within the probable period of your life.
You must realise, too, that such progress will be the sum total of
all individual endeavors. Thus you will realise, no doubt have already
accepted, your own part in this great forward movement which is
progress. If you are to play your part valuably, you must not be a
drag upon any other section of the community, but in one respect at
least you can provide against this.
The Savings Account will help you build your career, help you
to independence, and therefore to a useful place as a citizen. Very
little money is required to start an account, which will cost you only
the decision to open it, and to faithfully maintain it, for your own
and, therefore, for the general national welfare.
Cbmmonwcaltl) Savinas JM of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
“Green Chequer”: Whoever told “Bonzo”
(B. 14/9/’32) that one about homer-
pigeons—not “homing,” as you love me—
being unable to find their lofts when re-
leased near or flown over an electric power
station or wireless aerial ought to go in
for the special “Sonnysayings” prize in
the Sydney Associated Press. For some
years one of my homer-fancier friends kept
a loft close to Pennant Hills (N.S.W. i
wireless station, one of the most powerful
in Australia. Another had a loft right along-
side the White Bay power station in Sydney.
Both did well with the birds. “Bonzo” sug-
gests that pigeons have the power to sense the
earth when “electrical emanations create what
is, to their direction-finding sense, an intense
mist” —whatever he means by that. I can
only say that every homer has to be
laboriously trained on the routes that he
must fly before he is allowed to fly them.
The homer is very much like a navigator
with what, in the Islands long ago, used to
be called a dog-barker’s ticket. H'e picks
up a point he knows, and from there lays
a line for another one. Family affection
is the urge, for the homer, he and she, is
the most devoted parent on earth or in the
air. Good birds are distinguished by their
brains, too. If tired with flying against
adverse winds they will go to roost and
resume next morning. Hawks and the
country bounder Avith the shotgun are the
only real enemies of these birds, which
have rendered such good service to mankind
from time immemorial.
% * * >:*
“Bumble”: That reference to the unrelia-
bility of bees (B. 28/9/’32) reminds me
that the exceptional summer now ending in
Britain has resulted in half the beestoralists
of that country, or whatever they call them,
going off their blocks. The reason is a
wild outbreak of inebriety among their stock,
due to profuse flowering of the lime-trees. The
nectar from the flowers is highly intoxicat-
ing, and the bees are well aware of the
fact. It would not be so bad if the blotto
bee could zigzag his way home to the hive
to sleep it off. He just drinks till lie’s blind
fou’, as the Scots say, and then tumbles to
the ground, dead to the world. The small
birds have been quick to grasp the situation,
with the result that bee casualties arc
enormous. Those that do get home refuse
to work next morning and have no hesitation
in stinging their best friends if expostulated
with.
* * =!:
“Aquila”: That Castlemaine pup (B.
21/9/’32) had exceptional luck. Not many
escape from the wedge-tail’s remorseless claws.
The grip of the eagles and the falcons, is
almost automatic, the closing process being
controlled by the muscles and sinews of the
powerful thighs. Release is only obtainable
at the will of the bird. Writer saw. an
instance years ago when a boundary-rider
was trying to finish off a half-poisoned eagle.
The dying beast nailed him through a fore-
arm with both claws. Endeavors to release
him were futile, so the bird was killed.
Yet the claws remained, even when we cut
the legs off, and had to be cut off separately
and extracted from the blasphemous patient
as painfully as if they were fish-hooks.
* * * *
“Homby”: Few Europeans who have seen
a Paouan tola (or arm-shell) realise the
part it plays in native trading, or how far
from home it gets in the process. A few
small ones are made on various parts of
the coast, but they are inferior in material
and design, and little sought after. The
best come from the D’Entrecasteaux group.
THAT MEDICINE NO GOOD.
BOSS: “What’s up, Jackie?”
JACKIE : “Mary bin clear out again.”
BOSS: “You better bin get a divorce.”
JACKIE : “One dibborce no plurry good—want plenty them to stop that one.”
The D’Entrecasteauxians trade them to the
Dahumians for pottery, and they sell them
to the Mailukoluans for sago and the like.
These pay with them the Aromans for pigs,
dogs, canoes, and other trifles. Thence
they go to the Hood Bay natives as reim-
bursement for birds and plumes. The Hood
Bay crowd with them buy sago (retail)
from the Motuans and Motu-motuans, and
these carry them to the far west and trade
THE HANDY AUSTRALIAN.
ST. PETER : “Where are the wires of your harp?”
NEW ARRIVAL: “Had to pull ’em out to mend the old Ford.”
them to the Elemaites for sago in bulk.
Thence they begin the return journey as
payment for the specialties of the tribes
en route.
* * * *
“S.P.C.A.”: I am not surprised at the
story of the North Queensland python which
lifted the falling “Camcor” to safety (B.
28/9/’32). Allegedly
ferocious wild things,
especially if approach-
ed in a spirit of com-
radeship, readily re-
spond to kindness.
Years ago when on
the Lower Limpopo,
I rescued a crocodile
from a native trap.
Long afterwards I
went down badly with
fever at the exact
spot. My carriers
promptly deserted,
taking all stores, ex-
cept a bottle of
quinine, and, what
was worse, my gun
and rifle. Pondering in
the hammock on the
situation for I was
too weak to go far
without food—l heard
a rustle in the grass,
and, concluding it was
a returning carrier,
peeped over the edge
of the hammock. The
intruder was a large
crocodile with an ex-
cellent fish in his
mouth. Something
about him was fami-
liar. and when .he
smiled I recognised
him as my acquaint-
ance of some years
before. To be - brief,
he kept me supplied
with fish for a week
until I was fit to
travel. Then he
would not hear of
my going by foot, but
ferried me on his back
down to Makarrcla with my tent, and blan-
kets. We both shed tears at parting when,
with a final wave of his tail, he started
his return journey.
* * ij:
“M. 5.8.”: Passing along the banks of the
Daintree River (N.Q.), I noticed several
cows standing up to their necks in it. I was
told by Jacky, "Plenty big feller tick longa
that feller. H’e bin go along water, fish eat
him tick.” Making closer inspection of the
herd I noticed myriads of small fish around
each beast, each holding fast to a big fat
tick.
« * * *
“On Top”: Black Brother handed a nasty
jolt to the missionaries in the hinterland of
Aitape, North-
ea s t New
Guinea, a few
weeks ago.
Four boys in
the little village
of Wow, which
has hardly even
seen a white
man, blandly
announced, with
every appear-
an c e of sin-
cerity, (a) that
they had been
born of virgihs,
(b) that they
could perform
miracles and
(c) that no
whi t e man—
m i s s i o nary,
“G o v ernment”
or common re-
cruiter could
withstand them.
They undertook
to produce
crops, cocoanuts
and cooking-
pots by magic
and to drive all
i n t r u ders —
European and
Chinese into
the Pacific
Ocean. Native
mission teach-
ers exhorted and
preached an d
threatened the
wrath of God
and George V.
(for and on be-
half of the
League of
Nations), but
all in vain. The
cult spread, and
there seemed
every possi-
bility of a new
Jehad when the Administration stepped in
and took the four Messiahs away in a little
schooner, bound for distant New Ireland,
where they cooled their heels while the faith-
ful cooled their ardor. All is now quiet on
the Aitape front.
Sj: ifc sji :j:
“Double Express’’: The decision of the
Australian Government to ban the importa-
tion of rifles, parts or ammunition of .303
calibre has raised a storm, on the ground
that rifles of this calibre are now popular
all over Australia among professional skin-
shooters, by reason of their flat trajectory,
heavy hitting power and the ease with
which ammunition can be obtained. This
last is probably the reason for the ban.
The authorities do- not think it advisable
that rifles in which military ammunition
could be used should be accessible to all
and sundry. As to the kangaroo-shooters, it
would only mean they would have to go back
to makes 99 per cent, of them used before the
war. To an extent the ban is hard on a man
who has just bought an expensive .303 calibre
rifle, but if it were of service pattern, the
Government should be able to help him.
If one of the many non-service makes, any
decent gunmaker would give him a hand-
some allowance on it and find a market for
himself outside Australia.
❖ % -X $
“Pick”: The summit of a perpendicular
30ft. column of rock on Dromedary Moun-
tain (N.S.W.) rises sheer from the ground,
and is encircled by a bulging cap. All the
same a carpet snake, which drags his Bft. into
a surface crevice if bombarded from below,
has lived there for years. No snake without
wings could attain the top of the shelving-
sided pinnacle, and there’s only a few square
feet of territory there to afford him subsist-
ence. How lie got to the top and on what
he lives are mysteries the wonga. hunters
of the region submit for the -i Council’s earnest
consideration.
v v •!• v
“Plankton”; The peculiar properties of a
plant, Leucwna glauca, distributed over a
wide area of Queensland have earned it an
evil reputation. It rather resembles a dwarf
wattle in appearance and size, and has
beautiful foliage and dainty creamy balls of
blossoms. When eaten by horses it causes
the hair of their manes and tails to fall out,
The plant is well-known in the North, and
in many tropical countries, and I have seen
it growing as far south as Brisbane. It is
believed to be an imported species, and may
have been introduced by migratory birds.
WHEN THE HEADERS TAKE THE
FIELD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We have dohe with cultivating, plough and
harrow, disc and drill,
With the anxious days of waiting till the
grain heads swell and fill.
Mile on mile green crops are stretching,
faintly tinged with golden' streaks,
And in fancy we are sketching visions of
the coming weeks,
When the binders finish mowing where the
fence and headlands meet,
And we start the headers going doAvn the
leaning lanes of wheat:
Swinging fast around the angle, with the
horses four and four,
Iron swingletrees a-jangle and the whirling
drums a-roar.
We must tighten up the headers, so there’s
little time for dreams ;
See to pulley-chain and spreaders, all the
gearing for the teams;
Look the reins and winkers over, for the
nags are full of go—
They’ve been spelling where the clover and
the river grasses grow.
Little use to curse and scold ’em if the
leaders pass the tip :
Just a case of sit and hold ’em. straighten
up and let them rip,
With an eye upon the belting and the grain-
box, where the proofs
Of a record yield come pelting like the rain
oil iron roofs.
Oh, we’ll have our share of trouble ere the
last bag’s gathered in.
There’ll be swearing in the stubble over nut
and cotter-pin,
And you’ll note a depth of meaning in the
oft-repeated damns
When there’s blockage in the screening, or
the elevator jambs.
Still, we’re singing loud hosannas, and the
future’s' full of cheer,
As we run the shifting spanners o’er the
rusty harvest gear.
Hopes we’ve still of prices soaring, and we’re
longing for the days
When the header drums are roaring down
the waving golden ways.
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobef
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridge;)
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
H
6
D.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through f he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business,
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 7! £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
SMOKE-OH!
France is trying hard to keep Germany
out of arms’ way.
* *
An official denial comes from Aberdeen
that the word “Untouchables” originated
there.
# *
The theologians can say what they like,
but, according to Mr. Monahan, K.C., Syd-
neyites’ sins of Commission are nearly
always sins of omission.
BITTER MEMORIES.
“A.L.P. Hike Is Off.” —“Sunday Sun” heading.
No wonder after the way Jack Lang
botched up his mystery hikes. More often
than not he landed A.L.P. hikers on Pinch-
gut or Goat Island when the ticket-sellers
at the Trades Hall had given them to under-
stand they were bound for Sunny Corner
or Happy Valley. And who can forget that
“What has kept you so
late?”
“I was fixing a new ribbon
on my typewriter.”
“You ought to be ashamed
to own it. You get rid
of her or there’ll be
trouble!”
Lang-planned hike when he started to lead
a party of close on half a million to Eden
down south and landed them on the road
to Ruin, going west fast.
Me.
* #
“Mr. Hardy is unique amongst Australian poli-
ticians.”
That is not to say, mind you, that our
politicians are not hardy.
In' most strikes the employer wins hands
down.
¥ *
THE LOGIC OF IT.
“As the thief was a Chinese and Jimmie Bee
and Tommy Ah Hoc were the only ones in the
locality, Hoo was arrested.”
The copper for some little time
Upon the problem brooded.
“If Lee did not commit the crime,”
He reasoned, “then Ah Hoo did?”
* *
Q’s AND A’s.
Q.: Will Bradman play in the Tests?
A.: Will the Melbourne Cup be run next
month ?
Q.: Would Dr. Earle Page like to return
to the Federal Cabinet?
A.: Would Jock Garden like to be Lord
Mayor of Sydney ?
Q.: Can our bookmakers stand the strain
of the usual tremendous losses over the
Spring meetings ?
A.: Can our politicians carry on at their
reduced salaries?
Q.: When will Royal Commissions cease
being held?
A.: When will doctors start curing their
wealthiest patients quickly?
J. A. S.
In one way the depression has proved
popular—everything is falling for it.
If some check isn’t put on the ltomina-
tion system the N.S.W. Upper House will
be giving us mob law.
THE NEWEST JOURNALISM.
The editor summoned his chief-of-staff.
“Mr. Splitter,” he said, “I want you to
instruct the reportorial staff to—er —when-
ever possible, introduce the names and busi-
nesses of our advertisers in their news copy.
Wherever practicable, Mr. Splitter. Adver-
tisements are the —er —very life’s blood of
our nostrils, if you understand what I mean,
Splitter.”
“Quite —oh ! er—absolootely,” murmured
Mr. Splitter.
The first copy to come in was from an
eminently loyal roundsman :
Last night a disastrous conflagration
occurred in Cardophus-street, at 11 p.m.,
when the recently-erected and ornate Pyor-
rhoea Villa (architects Body comb and Izzard,
contractors Gullop and Co., furnishings by
Seeling and Varvels, art fittings by Mudge,
bath and plumbing
by Bloopumper and
Brail), the residence
of Mr. Dummel-
dinger, the well-
known city dentist,
whose professional
parlors are at 7451
Collins-street (Pain-
less extractions. Full
set from four
guineas), was totally
destroyed.
It would appear
that Mr. Dummel-
dinger and his wife
had returned from
the pretty wedding
of their eldest daugh-
ter, Dentine, to Mr.
Wiinbottle, the justly-
famed sausage-skin
merchant. (The
breakfast was pro-
vided by Cracklebury
and Co., high-class
caterers.)
Mr. and Mrs. Dum-
meldinger had re-
tired for the night
after listening-in to
their wireless (a
Grand fortolian, £l7
10s., net) and were
asleep, when the roar
of the flames woke
Mrs. Dummeldinger,
who roused her hus-
band. The devouring
element had such a
hold of the building
that the couple had to
make their escape in
their night attire (in
the case of Mrs. Dummeldinger. a spoked
crepe night in Magyar style—lss. lid. at
Grobble and Co.’s —and a pair of fully-
fashioned hose in plated rayon from Snoop’s.
Mr. Dummeldinger wore colored Bing-
wasser flannelette pyjamas—sale price, only
2s. llld.—and one of McToffy’s famous
athletic singlets at Is. lid.). The home
and contents were fully insured at the
Problematical Insurance Company, but the
loss will be a severe one. Mr. Dummeldinger
managed to seize his zipp calf wallet—
were 17s. 6d. now ss. 3d. at Steptoe and
Co.’s —and Mrs. Dummeldinger saved her
genuine rock crystal, 30in., ball-cut
necklet —were 375. 6d. now 4s. 9d. at
Pugsey and Chuck’s —but otherwise nothing
was preserved from the flames.
The origin of the fire is unknown, but the
officers of the Metropolitan Fire Brigade
attribute it to the butt of a smouldering
cigarette—Cabarets at lOd. per packet of
THE NAG: “You’re going to drive me out of my mind!”
THE NARK: “That ain’t no drive, my dear — that’s a
putt.”
10 —probably ignited by one of the new
Kybosh Sure Fire lighters—ls. 9d. each
at Offenbung’s.
Norbell.
* #
“Vilmy Blanky Back ."—“Herald” headline.
News —or candid criticism?
* *
“Fsh are btng well near Pttwater.” — -“Sun.”
Evdntly the “Sun’s” dng its bt as rgds
sttng an exmpl of ecnmy.
V *
“Not every man rings his own nell.”— “Sun.”
True. Many a man passes sentence on
himself by ringing Grace, Ethel or Mary, as
the case may be.
¥ *
NOISY NATURE.
“The sound cameraman is always on the alert for
unusual ‘shots.’ A director at any moment may
demand appropriate sounds for a city fire, street
scene, baby crying, train stopping, or sunset.”
— “Argus.”
The sunset shot now in the library of
Punk Films, Inc., has been much admired.
As the sun sinks to the horizon one catches
the low hiss of gas-stoves preparing the
toilers’ evening meals, and passes on through
the whining of early mosquitoes and the
ejaculations of strap-hanging, homeward-
bound tram passengers to a swift crescendo
of galloping feet. An agitated voice here
remarks “Blime, it’s five to six.” . The
lowing of a cow is then heard, signifying
the close of the agricultural day.
It gives place to the whirr of
milking-machines and the voices
of newsboys reciting the day’s
Royal Commission and pony-
racing headlines. The golden orb
sinks from sight to the solemn
intoning of “Time, gentlemen,
please.”
T. B.
H- *
THE SHAME OF LUCY GRAY.
Old Peter was after her again,
so the word went round. He
was out after Lucy Gray again
to-night, as he had chased other
young females before. Would his
hot pursuit be successful? Must
her reputation be ruined?
“He’s catching her, the big
black brute!” someone cried.
“He’s caught her. He’s passed,
her, an’ I’ve done in another
quid. Bah! This puntin’ on the
dogs is a mug’s game!”
W. P. T.
“The Vic. Government will allow taxes to be
paid in instalments.”
Unfortunately there’s no chance that
those failing to keep up their payments will
have the tax taken away.
* #
“Money Matters.” —“Sun heading.
We’d suspected this before.
THE SINO-JAP. SITUATION.
The “Blurb’s” Asiatic Editor makes it
quite clear :—
Generals Hop Yu Kow and Un Hung Lia.
commanding 2000 Volunteers at Chop Suey,
in the Hsin Wung sector, have surrounded
a division of Manchukuans entrenched at
Long Wei Awei. The Mongols resisting
fiercely, the Japanese commander, Admiral
Imura Soanso, made a sortie, routing the
brigands under General Kao Ping Pong.
The Manchurian war-lord.
General O Go Hang, who
has protested to the League
of Nations, is conducting the
defence of Shan Tung, which
is being invested by a large
force of anti-Nationalists
under General Ho Wing
Wong. The latter is reported
to have fled, his whereabouts
being shrouded in mystery,
though rumor credits him
with activities at Chia Tun
Taon, arranging supplies of
fighting aeroplanes and
soojee singlets for the army
of Loyalist troops under
General Chong Fo, the
rebel leader at Ki Wu. The
Mongolian Pretender, Gen-
eral Wun Lung Gon, has
advanced on the army of
General Sing Song, the Com-
mander of Peiping, whose
gallant and well-equipped
forces (known in the verna-
cular as “Die Hards’’) re-
tired according to plan, and
were last seen, flat out, pass-
ing the Obi Desert in the
general direction of Tibet.
The Walled City of Chu Tu.
headquarters of the pro-
Loyalist, General Kum On
Now, has been razed, follow-
ing on attacks by the Anti-
Volunteer forces under Gen-
eral Pong H'i, though both
Tdkio and Pekin claim
smashing victories there. In-
tense guerrilla fighting is
also reported from Clio Chi. where the
Manchukuan Chief of Staff, General Chow
No Kow, is astride the railway and.
despite an acute shortage of aerial torpedoes
and umbrellas, is holding at bay the com-
bined army of General Ong Bong and Mr.
Pu Wow. Both, or three, sides, which are
being partly supported and partly attacked
by Japanese, Soviet and Annamese mercen-
aries in the pay of the Elder Statesman Ho.
claim to have inflicted enormous losses and
to have suffered negligible casualties.
S. W. K.
* *
TRIOLET OF RADI-OWE.
How sweet and serene is the night!
For the wireless is going next door.
Its bellowing voice is a blight;
Yet how sweet and serene is the night .
As I list with a neighbor’s delight
To the t.-p. man’s threatening roar!
How sweet and serene is the night
For the wireless is GOING next door!
“Male beauty — fudge! Have you ever
heard of a girl marrying a man for
his good looks?”
“Well, yes—at least I know one who
married a chemist.”
ENTER BOBBLES.
“Be Touquet is the place for the Very Bright men.
Even the elderly ones are wearing the gay-colored
hand-knitted pullovers that are finished at the neck
with two large bobbles.” — “Sun.”
I may nol get nearer Le Touquet and its
Very Bright elderly men
Than the seawall at Coogee, where fashions
as woni by our male upper ten
Arc mostly confined to those suitings that
one sees draped, on pegs, near and far,
But, I’m sure I can run to two bobbles —
that is, when I learn what they are.
I was prompt in adopting from England,
when dividends started to crash.
All such methods of cheap entertainment as
suppers of sausage-and-mash,
And dinners to which those invited came
along with their food in a car,
Co I’ll probably cotton to bobbles — I’ve
merely to learn what they are.
I’m a typical Sydney side Aussie. There’s
No stunt to which I’ll say No.
Once I’m told that the dam’ thing’s im-
ported I’m ready to give it a go.
So trot out your knitted pullovers (who
cares if the colors do jar?)
And also a brace of large bobbles—though
I’m dashed if I know what they are.
10-2-4.


sdf
DINE -
PICCADILLY within 28 days
» » by
WMiing
on the
✓
pof>*
5?
V*
MARIPOSA erMONTEREY'
m o
*
'//.
A
*
*o*
w
y/.
9
%
Y/
/.
\
OCEAN days pass incredibly fast in the
absorbing, continuous gaiety of life
aboard these famous ships. Delicious food ...
the cool comfort of a charming, extra large
stateroom . . . and every diversion from
talkies to an outdoor plunge.
♦ ♦ First Class offers the finest in modern
ocean crossings ... Cabin Class combines
economy with comfort to an unparalleled
degree. All staterooms, both classes, have in-
dividual beds, telephone, perfect ventilation.
♦ ♦ Fascinating adventures await you every-
where en route. Fiji... Samoa... Hawaii...
irrisistible Hollywood . . . plus an alluring
chain of giant cities from California to New
York. Through transportation can be
arranged to any point in America or England.
Next Sailings to America
"MONTEREY", OCT. 22 "MARIPOSA", NOV. 19
FARES: Sydney to England
First Class Single £lO5/10 Return £194/10
Cabin Class Single £B3 Return £152
To Los Angeles or Son Francisco
First Class, single from £73 Return from £125/10
Cabin , Class, single from £5O/10 Return from £B7
Fares subject to Exchange.
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON LINE
12 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY Phone: B 7981-3
MIO-7A
Legal Notices.
TO ALFRED JAMES TAYLOR SON OF ADA
TAYLOR DECEASED WHO DIED IN NEW
ZEALAND ON THE sth DAY OF AUGUST 1931
AND TO ALL PERSONS CLAIMING BY THROUGH
OF UNDER HIM.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court of
New Zealand you arc hereby called upon to send to
me on or before the 31st day of December 1932 your
claims to the estate of the abovenamed deceased
failing which the said estate will be distributed
disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 27th day of Sep-
tember, 1932.
CHAS. E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO FREDERICK GEORGE REDMAN formerly of
9 Tyrone Street South Yarra in the State of
Victoria but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife has instituted pro-
ceedings against you for divorce on the ground of
desertion. Unless you enter an Appearance in the
Prothonotarv's Office of the Supreme Court in Mel-
bourne on or before the twentieth day of October
1932 the case may proceed in your absence. If you
desire to defend the case you must file an Answer
in the said Prothonotary’s Office on or before the
twenty-first day of November 1932.
PRICE & CHAMBERLIN, of 443 Chancery Lane,
Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire Insuranoeseffected on* all classes o':
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents alsoassured.
Marine Risks on _ Wool, Merchandise,
“ Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The United is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Lawson, See. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
PRIMARY PRODUCTION
IS
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S
SALVATION!
The Royal Show for 1932 will be held on
October 4 to 8 and record entries for all
sections have been received. This year’s Royal
Show will faithfully depict the advancement
of Western Australia’s primary industries.
The success of Western Australia as a primary
production State is bound up with its overseas
exports, and the following figures for the year
ended June 30, 1931, demonstrate the value of
this trade to the people of Western Australia: —
Westralia’s leading newspaper,
CAN SELL YOUR GOODS IN THIS
VALUABLE MARKET.
TuvCute J'Sci&ruze ,
+s&cz£ SieXieJ, s(a#e
* Screen Vtcte4, rti&eZ fox
t&e 2&ru*t? &oC&<f. ,
TheAUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES 62
u
♦
V*.
THE NEW BUIE PETROL
Have you tried C.O.R Plus—the new blue petrol? This normal
priced petrol is entirely different from any other petrol you have ever
used. It gives controlled combustion and REMARKABLE FREE-
DOM FROM PINKING in high compression engines, whilst to
old cars it brings A NEW LEASE OF LIFE.
C.O.R Plus is tinted blue to denote the presence of a special lead
compound—the secret of its amazing performance. This is guaranteed
positively harmless to any part of the most delicate engine.
The colour is the result of the addition of a minute quantity of in-
nocuous, blue aniline dye. It is there for your protection.
THE NEW C.O.R
PLUS DEFINITELY
ENSURES . . . .
INSTANT STARTING
+ AMAZING ACCEL-
ERATION + MORE
MILES PER GALLON
+ FULLEST POWER
+ WONDERFUL HILL
CLIMBING + FREE-
DOM FROM PINKING.
COR
PLUS
PLUS WHAT?-
PLUS A LITTLE SOMETHING
OTHERS HAVENT GOT
and tractor owners!
• •
-
COR
POWE R’
KEROSENE
is as great an advance in tractor fuels as is
“C.O.R” Plus in the Petrol field. Try
this really fine Kerosene in your tractor.
Pfct
C. 40/16/32
fhe Commonwealth Oil Be fineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Per&ian Oil Co. Ltd.!,
Poolman St., Port Melb. 117 Pitt St., Sydney. Agents for S. Australia and Queensland : Daigety <fc Co. Ltd.
I
m
v FOR AMAZING RE SUITS
THE QUALITY YOU/! CAR DESERVES
sd
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
it is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same da> of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner“ Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.


BOORS
YOU SHOULD HAVE
Norman Lindsay’s Pen Drawing's, many of which are out of print, 5/i ;
Canaries and How to Keep Them, by Cliatterton, 2/9; Poultry Farming', by Dept. 01
Agriculture, Victoria, 3/4; Service Projection Equipment, 20/6; Compression Ignition
Engines for Road Vehicles, 4/6; Book of Australian Bungalows, 5/4; Knotting and
Splicing Ropes and Cordage, illustrated, 2/9; House Painting and Decorating, fully
illustrated, 2/9; Ticket Writing and Sign
Painting, fully illustrated, 2/9; Invoicing
Made Easy, of Tons, Cwts., Qrs. and Lb 9..
by Cordingly, 1/6; How to Become Quick
at Figures, Simple and Easy Rules,
1/4; Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes,
3/3; Wise Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes,
4/10; Enduring Passion, by Marie Stopes,
7/10; Contraception—Birth Control, Its
Theory, History and Practice, by Marie
Carmichael Stopes, 22/4; Radiant Mother-
hood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the
Young, by Marie Stopes, 4/10; Exercises
DON’T FAIL TO READ
HELL’S DOORWAY,
“The Mystery Book,” broadcasted by
3UE.
By F. ,J. XHWAITES.
Author of “Broken Melody.”
PRICE, 6/4 posted.
for Women, by Hornibrook, 5/4; Secrets of Successful Marriage, by Dr. G.
Courtenay Beale, 10/4; Realities of Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4;
The Happy Lover, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11; Eugenics and Birth Control,
by J. Rutgers, M.D., 15/6; Pitfalls of Marriage, by W. M. Gallichan, 6/3; Medical
Views on Birth Control, 6/4; Knowledge a Young Wife Should Have, by Phillip. 4/6;
Mastery of Sex, L. D. Weatherhead —a vital book, 5/4; These Beautiful Women —
Prints of Paintings from Paris Salon, 3/8; Contract Bridge, by Ely Culbertson, 8/6;
How to Become an Effective Public Speaker, 2/2; Mayes’ Australian Builders’ Price
Book, 15/6; Eoulsham’s Letter Writer, 3/4; Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle
FOR EVERYBODY
THE UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK
1000 TESTED AND INEXPENSIVE RECIPES
TO 7\/I AYF Meat, Fish and Poultry Dishes, Preserves,
Ivy Puddings, Entrees, Sweets, Sauces, Pastry,
Soups, Oakes, Bread, Hors D’ceuvres, Summer Drinks, Confectionery,
Ice Creams, Vegetarian Dishes, Savouries. Jellies, Pickles, Syrups, Salads,
Jams, etc.; including French Dishes.
HOW
ONLY 1/4 Posted.
Up to Date”), 2/8; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2; Upholstery for Amateurs, 1/11; What
to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Wood Turning Made Easy, 2/9; Home Woodworker—
Practical and Modern Designs, 1/11; Aust. Book of Ready-made Speeches and
Toasts, 3/- ; Double-bed Dialogues, 1/2; Modern Bacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose,
3/9; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes, 28/6; Napoleon’s Book of Fate, 3/4; Cheiro
Guide to the Hand, 4/1; Bulletin Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2),
1/2; Prospecting for Gold (Australian), by lon Idriess, 5/3; Novelty Evenings (all
MEN OF THE JUNGLE,
toy lON E. IDRIESS.
With Illus. Price, 6/4 posted.
Author of “Easseter's East Ride,”
“Flynn of the Inland.”
The scene of “Men of the Jungle” is
the Wonderland that is north-eastern
Queensland. The story is of three years
in the lives of the author and two com-
panions, incidents in which have left
poignant and indelible memories.
The bush has set its mark on Idriess ;
he knows it and loves it; he can bring
it to us and make us love it, too.
kinds of games), 3/9; How to Repair
and Restring Tennis Racquets, 3/-;
Motor Repair Manual, 4/7; The Modern
Letter Writer, 2/9 ; Parenthood — a Manual
of Birth Control, by Fielding, 4/-; Love
and Marriage, by Winifred Scott Hall, 13/-;
Motor-cycling Manual, 4/7; How to
Drive a Car, 3/9; Canoes, Dinghies and
Sailing Punts, 2/9; Sound Film Reproduc-
tion, Just Out —Special Reference to
British Practice, 6/4; Practical Cartooning
for Profit, by Will Farrow, C/6; Fresh-
water Aquaria, by Bateman, 10/9; Out-
board Motorboat Book, blue prints, 17/-;
Motorboat Manual, 9/-; Fowler’s Mechanics’
and Machinists’ Pocket Book, 1932, 3/10;
Mechanical World Year-book, 1932, 3/-
Write for any book you may require.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Booksellers, Librarians, Tobacconists, Stationers, Newsagents, Kodak Suppliers,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
5.
Co tsOh
arcanum
F
W out
f fully
ESTABLISHED 180?
this fine old Scots Whisky
has 120 years* reputation for
outstanding quality. It is ski!,
fully blended for mellowness
and flavour and no better
whisky can be produced.
PERFECTION
SCOTS WHISKY
D.tJ M°CALIUM l ZB COIN BUR OM,
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF MeCALLUM:
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane ; Gibbs, Bright and
Co., Adelaide; Lionel Samson and Son, Fremantle; Macfarlane Bros, and Co.,
Hobart; Thomas Brown and Son ; Ltd., Townsville and Rockhampton; Northern
Australian Breweries, Ltd., Cairns.
CKarm of the
PACIFIC
INLANDS'
For less than the cost
of a city holiday!
EXCURSION FARES
(NO EXCHANGE)
SUVA, FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days, Ist Class Return, £35
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva, Ist Class Return, £75
Seven-weeks’ Tour .... Cabin,, „ £55
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Twenty-three Days’ Tour, Ist Class Return, £45
Via Wellington, N.Z... Cabin,, „ £34
PAPEETE, TAHITI.
Via Wellington and
Rarotonga .. Ist Class Return, £55
Seven-weeks’ Tour .. Cabin,, „ £4O
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney;
59 William Street, Melbourne.
*
V' v
F!\r
• SmT
. -4m
k i
m
%//
f=>urcn &£(-0
Lfe
LINES
lINI
AND
\
YuX
PLENTY
WATER
DURING SUMMER MONTHS
with
"Macson”
Double-Acting
Piston Pumps
The “Macson”
has become
very popular
where pumps
are required to
give a ,
flow of water
at considerable
pressure.
SF3fl
. .
“Macson” Pumps are used in Factories, on Farms and Stations with
great success. They are strongly built at our own Works and have
several features which are distinct improvements on other makes
of similar pumps.
Made in five sizes: for 1 1i,2, 2\ and 3 inch piping, giving
outputs ranging from 400 to 3500 gallons per hour.
Full particulars will be sent on request.
FREE!
We have recently issued what is,
probably the best Catalogue of Tools
and Hardware for Farm and Home
ever produced in Australia.
In addition to nearly 250 pages of
illustrations and descriptions of over
1400 articles, there are many pages of
valuable information compiled by a
competent authority. The many sub-
jects included make Catalogue No. 33
a splendid reference book for the man
on the ; land.
tersons'
PtpprieUni limited
“Dependable Goods Since 1860.”
To make sure that you secure a
copy, fill in and send this coupon
now.
Please send me, Post Free, a |
copy of your Catalogue No. 33. ,
| NAME |
I ADDRESS I
i: uj
51 Bathurst Street - - - - SYDNEY
582 Collins Street - - - MELBOURNE
116 Waymouth Street « - ADELAIDE
532 Murray Street PERTH


'
DIAMONDS FOR SERVICE.
WHEN battery or dry-cell users require
service that is out of the ordinary—
long, and hard, and gruelling—they choose
DIAMONDS.
It is Diamonds’ length of life and amazingly rapid
recuperation that has won them a regular place in the
work of the Victorian Railways Signalling Division.
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES -TORCH REFILLS
pOE the same reasons many
Broadcasting Stations, the
P.M.G.’s Department, leading
radio set' manufacturers, and the
Navy, choose Diamonds.
rxonxrr^
off* 1
trfi
6A
D.S.I.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
ferTiliser lodgment.
■■“NLP. Kay”: On the farm on which I
was horn, wheat was grown sown broadcast
without fertiliser. That was before super,
made its appearance. Later on we grew
the cereal with super., both sown broadcast.
Yields. increased, and although wheat was
round about a couple of bob a bushel the
farm and farm-life improved generally.
Came the drill, and the seed was sown with
super, in the rows,, and broadcasting was
no more.
In cereal farming without doubt, the super.
should be lodged with the seed.. But it does
not follow that this should be the method
in every case irrespective of the crop or
plant grown, the fertiliser used, or the type
of soil farmed. It is always advisable to
Start a crop or plant with a little super, in
close contact so that early root growth is
strengthened and developed. Should the
root system be spoon-fed, however, there is
a danger that it will become lazy and refuse
to search for its tucker. Therefoi'e, it is
not advisable to place any appreciable
amount of fertiliser or a lai’ge quantity of
available plant food in the immediate vicin-
ity of the area feeding early growth.
The broadcasting of super, on light sandy
soils is a different proposition from broad-
casting it on a clay loam or heavy red clay.
Results in the .former instance are good
because the soluble fertiliser travels through
the soil, but in cases of heavy soils the lodg-
ment is of a more permanent nature and
results are not so satisfactory. However,
in the case of the more insoluble fertilisers,
such as bonedust, and other soluble ferti-
lisers, such as potash salts, sulphate of
ammonia and nitrate of soda, broadcasting
is a much better method than sowing with
the seed or plant.
The best farmers jn Victoria have a
double-headed system of fertilising. They
manure the plant and manure the soil.
Farmyard manure, or other similar matter,
is ploughed under; lime is applied; very
often —in intense culture, at any rate —a
dressing of some cwt. of tankage or bone-
dust is broadcast prior to sowing. These
applications are regarded as manuring the
soil. Super, is used in sowing or planting
out in the drill rows or dibbles. In addition
the crop is very often forced at the critical
stages of growth by broadcasting a dressing
of sulphate of ammonia or nitrate of soda.
These applications are for the sole purpose
of mahui'ing the plant. Many farmers, par-
ticularly orchardists, use a cwt. of potash
salt sown broadcast in the late autumn.
Generally speaking, practice proves that,
apart from super., all fertilisers should be
broadcast prior to sowing on the fallow, or
preferably on the growing crop at the criti-
cal stage of growth; but remember it is
useless to do any or all of these things un-
less the cultivator is kept continually on
the move.
A Werribee (Vic.) farmer told me re-
cently that his father, who farmed the place
before him, had for cauliflower culture a
fixed formula which included dibbling in
with lewt. of super., broadcasting 3ewt, of
bonedust after planting, and forcing later
with lewt. of sulphate of ammonia top-
dressed. The old man’s conviction was that
any advance on these dressings would burn,
yet the son informed me that he had in-
creased the super, and ammonia dressings
100 per cent., and the bonedust to Bcwt. an
acre, with eminently satisfactory results,
both as regards yield and quality of the pro-
duce.
Fertiliser pi'actice will vary with '• the
soil, the crop and the, season. . Experience
is the best. tutoi*,. but it can be taken for
granted that super, is the only fertiliser
which should be lodged under the surface.
EARTH-EATING.
“S. Quire”: Big-game hunters invariably
lie in wait for the beasts at. either drink-
ing pools or'“licking” grounds—places Where
the animals make mineral deficiency good by
licking earth containing salt, phosphate,
lime and iron. Here and there in Victoria
the practice of cattle and horses eating
earth has been observed and remarked upon.
Almost invariably the earth consumed has
been found to be comparatively high in the lime'
content, and usually high in the percentage
of iron.
With four racehorses from Maoriland,
arrivals for the spring meetings, were
brought five heavy bags of earth. I
obtained a little and had it analysed. It
proved to be a red clay, rich in iron oxide
and containing appreciable amounts of lime
and phosphate. Previous inquiry elicited
the information that the horses, when in
their native land, regularly attended the par-
ticular clay area to consume some of the
earth. When deprived of this natural lick,
they did not thrive —at any rate not suffi-
ciently to win races. But there was no
necessity to cart the clay from. M.L. to Aus-
tralia. There are mountains of similar stuff
to be had in this country almost for the
asking. More important still, the clay, as
I found, contained large amounts of worth-
less insoluble matter not required by the
animals. Far better to feed a lick containing
bone, chalk and rouge (rust or iron oxide)
or sulphate of iron than to overload the
animals’ stomachs with muck of this descrip-
tion.
The practice adopted by cattle and horses
of eating soil, bones, the bark of trees, even
old tins, has been stopped immediately by
simply feeding a bone-and-iron lick with or
without salt and sulphur. This mixture not
only supplies the deficiency but avoids the
danger of sanding.
GROWLS ABOUT WOOLCLASSING
“Trepex”: They are, I think, warranted;
but who is most to blame? The classer for
bad work, the grower for not making better
provision for good work to be done, or the
buyer for not making better allowance for
good work when he gets it? Many a man
has packed up his wool “all in,” and got as
good an average as the man who has taken
pains to send a well-prepared clip to market;
as a result, there have been many converts
to the “all-in” principle, particularly in these
days of low prices, when every penny spent
in production has to be considered.
But if the job is to be done at all it should
be done well. That is impossible if insuffi-
cient provision is made for shed-room, wool-
tables and bins; if shed labor is inadequate
in quantity and quality; if the classer is in-
competent. There are plenty of competent
classers, but they require encouragement to
go out on to the job. Too many graziers,
particularly small men; seem to prefer the
cheap variety, or to do the work themselves
or get their sons to do it, or take some other
course which is not productive of satisfactory
results.
There is another phase. I was classing
a smallish shed for a man who protested that
he wanted his wool “done up as good as the
best.” There was not enough shed room in
which to stage a decent cat fight: three small
bins, divided by broken wire-netting, which
tore the fleeces (and my hands) every time
I made to use them; a couple of small
tables, so rickety that the corner of one had
to be suspended to the ceiling with a piece
of fencing wire, which caught the fleeces when
they were thrown out; and almost as many
classes of sheep as there are in the Common-
wealth. When the owner sees this little
article he will smile, because we have had it
out already. We hopped in and improvised
another wool bin, hung some packs in a
disused catching pen to hold odd sorts,
patched up the tables and got to work. The
classing was an expert job—32 sorts from
3300 sheep, and every one of them necessary
if any semblance of regularity in them was
to be attained. But, as a commercial turn-
out, it was a disgrace; seven or eight sorts
should have been enough to come from a
flock of the size. The grazier should realise
that he starts classing his wool when he
starts stocking up his paddocks. He should
have the fewest possible lines of sheep, and
each line even with the others. Given an
even run "of sheep on similar country, the
wool almost classes itself —one main line of
fleece, a couple of other sorts, culled out to
keep' the main one true, and the few neces-
sary lines of skirtings, etc. But it is worth
while to have a capable man to do the little
that is to be done because that little will
go the further.
WOOL-BALE WEIGHTS.
“Sheepo”: I don’t agree that weights of
wool bales should be increased in all in-
stances, “Murrawong” (B. 14/9/’32), but
money paid for packs would be saved if
weights of bales were increased wherever
possible with fleece lines that do not con-
tain an excess of dust and yolk. Tramping
both boxes well certainly assists in getting
good average weights into bales with light-
conditioned wool, but buyers drop their
figures when they notice big-weight figures
on bales of the lower sorts, such as locks
and stained pieces ; they naturally conclude
that dags are prevalent. Dust will per-
meate through the wool when bales are
pressed heavily with dusty fleece wool, but
little notice is taken of this by buyers; it
is the sticky, yolky and heavy-con-
ditioned fleece wools that they object to if
the bales have been pressed extra heavily.
An owner found from experience how
heavily-weighted bales make a difference in
price. The locks were pressed into 16
bales, averaging 8501 b. each. They realised
lid. per pound. The buyer, a repacker,
merely packed them again into 30 bales and
re-offered. With no difference in market
value, they realised 3jd. per pound. The
grower after that saw his lower sorts of
wool were not over-pressed.
PIT TRAPS FOR RABBITS.
“Gagobie”: So “Agri” (B. 14/9/’32)
caught 500 rabbits in a pit 20ft._ long. Mar-
vellous ! I’ve dug dozens of pits, and one
9ft. long is a whopper; 7ft. by sft. is heaps
big enough.. The greatest number of rabbits
I’ve seen caught in a pit in one night was
1237 —and that hole was about sft. long by
4ft. wide and 4ft. 6in. deep. Trapdoors?
I make mine so that they meet in the middle,
and put the axle in the centre of the door.
Then as Bunny runs across and feels a
door giving under him, he jumps on to the
other door and in he drops. A small weight
on the outer ends of the trapdoors will en-
sure them returning to the horizontal.
If you are going to make a pit, make
your trapdoors first. Get a couple of bits
of 4 x 2 slightly longer than you are going
to dig the hole. (If it’s hardwood, so much
the better. Light woods swell when it
rains, and your doors are jambed till they
dry out.) Join these together parallel with
suitable boards at the ends and wide enough
to allow your trapdoors to work freely, but
not too wide, else Bunny will be shy about
coming on it. Now your door boards need
to be the full length of this frame, with just
sufficient space in the centre to allow each
door to work without interfering with the
other. No. 8 wire makes good axles. Fix
it on the doors, and make small holes in the
frame for bearings.
Now dig your pit. If the ground is soft
it’s a good idea to' board; or you’ll have
trouble with rabbits scratching out. When
everything is shipshape, take your trapdoors
and place in position, and nail the netting
of the fence to one of your 4 x 2. Now
get a spare piece of netting, somewhat
longer than your pit, and nail the bottom
of it along your other 4x2, leaving a
narrow lane so that the rabbits must
walk on the trapdoors. A small post on
either side of the pit to fix this last piece
of netting to is required. Also run your
wings from these posts. A couple of sticks
stuck across the lane about 18m. above the
doors so that the latter will hit them when
they tip up will cause them to fall back
into place more quickly. Cover your pit
over with stout boards, and it’s just about
complete; but if you have used newly-cut
wood for your doors, give these a wash with
muddy water, or you won’t get any rabbits
in it for a month or so.
The most suitable place for a pit _ other
than the boundary is round the outside of
your wheat paddocks. For one on the boun-
dary get the neighbor to help, and make it
a double pit. Rabbits travel either side of
the fence looking for the best feed.
CO-OPERATIVE DIPPING.
“A.F.S.”: In the early days of the South
Burnett (Q.) there were so few dips about
that farmers were compelled to wash their
cows. Some —mainly Show breeders —still
favor washing, but the grade-herd dairymen
use the dip. Consequently you see dips all
over this district; but many are under the
control of co-operative cos.
Farmer-shareholders in one concern have
just held their annual meeting under the
trees beside the dip. It was shown that
at a dipping fee of 2d. per animal the co.
had raised a credit balance of £SO; and it
was decided to reduce the charge to l-Jd
the caretaker gets the Id. Ridiculous as it
seems, the Income-tax Department demands
its cut of the profits of such associations, and
allows only 21 p.c. p.a. depreciation _on the
dip and yards—ours are wooden. However,
co-operation is profitable to farmers, even in
so small a thing as dipping.
CANE HARVESTERS.
“Maehinus”: “Ratoon,” criticising _ the
Queensland sugar industry for its failure
to adopt the Falkiner cane harvester (B.
21/9/’32), overlooks practical details. Cane
harvesters have been used commercially by
only one concern, the Southern Sugar Cos.,
of Clewiston, Florida, a comparative new-
comer to sugar production in the Everglades.
Here the Falkiner machines have been used
with some success during the past two years
under eminently suitable conditions. The
country is as flat as a billiard table, and, as
it is all worked by the co., the fields are
very large, some being upwards of a mile
in length, thus giving the harvester a clear
straight run. Furthermore, the rainfall is
low during the harvesting season, so har-
vesters and tractors have no difficulty in
operating on the peaty ground.
Contrast these conditions with those of
N.Q. where much of the country is broken
and some of it not even stumped. The
average farmer harvests 30 acres, of cane
per year, from fields 5 to 10 acres in extent.
Under such conditions a machine of
per-hour capacity would spend most of its
time turning at the end of the rows. With
such a large unit loss of time in travelling
is a serious factor, and it would be neces-
sary to complete harvesting on one farm
before proceeding to the next. One machine
would cut out the average farm in three or
four days. Result, some farmers would have
their whole crop harvested long before it
was mature, while others would have their
whole crop harvested too late to ensure
reasonable ratoon crops. The impossibility
of adjusting payments under these condi-
tions is obvious. .
The mechanisation of cane harvesting in
Queensland is inevitable, but it will have
to be done by much less pretentious
machines, which can be readily manoeuvred
in small areas, can travel from place to
place at high speeds, and are light enough
to operate successfully in wet weather. In
short, units which will replace 8 or 10 men.
not 50.
DEEP SUBSOILING FOR VINES.
“Kilkivan”: Whatever the merits or de-
merits of deep subsoiling for annual plants,
it is beneficial for permanent trees and
vines. Barnard, in his study of root growth
of the vine, states emphatically that in
ground subsoiled before planting the root
growth was deeper and more vigorous,
although there was very little effect from
subsoiling after planting.
Two examples from Mildura: A settler
bought a piece of ground which had been
used for years as a short cut, and was a
trampled mass of hard beaten roads. He
was laughed at when he proposed planting
vines; the ground looked so barren. He sub-
soiled it to a depth of 21in., and the vines
were later one of the heaviest-bearing
patches in the district. Another grower
decided to interplant his Gordo vines, witli
sultanas, and thought by tearing up all the
roots to a good depth he would kill the old
vines, which were very much run down and
giving poor yields. He subsoiled deeply
right up to the vine and left the butts re-
maining. To his amazement they threw out
vigorous shoots, and bore the best crop they
ever had, so much so that he decided to
leave the old vines where they were. They
continued to do well for several years, hav-
ing apparently taken a new lease of life from
the severe root-pruning.
BURGUNDY MIXTURE.
“R. K. Deea”: As a spray for leaf scald
on pear-trees and pests of small berry fruits.
Burgundy mixture is very useful, and now
is the time to apply it. It is easily made,
and the composition is uniform. The spray,
when properly prepared, adheres splendidly,
and the excellent suspension works well in the
spraying machine.
To make it you add a solution of washing
soda to blue vitriol. The. strength of both
solutions is rigidly fixed because an excess
of either will resplt in bad burning. The
correct formula is 201b. of copper sulphate
(blue vitriol) dissolved in 50gal. of water,
and 231b. of washing soda dissolved in a
similar quantity of water. The spray should
be used as soon as possible after mamifac-
ture, because after a day the suspended
copper salt commences to coagulate, and the
spread thereby depreciates. As washing
soda varies in composition, the solution of
this salt should be added to the copper solu-
tion until the mixture just turns red litmus
blue; add a pint of copper solution in excess,
and the spray is ready for use.
Spud farmers and market gardeners are
advised that this is quite a good spray with
which to spray the ground prior t 0 plant-
ing. It knocks out most of the soil fungi,
which are particularly troublesome in “old”
ground. One hundred gallons will spray
21 acres.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Three of my horses have died, post-mortem
examination showing severe worm infesta-
tion. Before death temperature and breath-
ing were normal, but the animal was
slightly paralysed in the hind legs. Did
the worms cause death, and what species
are theyf Also, is the disease infectious,
and cure? —2294.
Can’t give an exact diagnosis without
inspection. Symptoms point to severe in-
festation of intestinal parasites. When such
symptoms make their appearance give the
horse a bran mash, then starve for 36 hours,
after which administer a drench composed
of oil of chenopodium, 4 drachms; linseed oil.
1-J pints; to be followed in two hours by
another pint of linseed oil. These quantities
are for a medium draught-horse.
(Continued on next page.)


m
?r-C2
iKi
V
■
m
m
Never feels tight!
If your foot is hard to fit for width,
then try this Abbey Shoe. . . . all full
and half sizes are available in four
widths, narrow, medium, wide and
extra-wide. It gives made-to-measure
comfort. And it’s built in a special
way. . . .on a last' shaped to avoid
strain over the instep arch. The
upper is of supple black velour calf
. . . .the sole of the toughest Aus-
tralian Leather.
ORDER BY POST.
State whether you need narrow,
medium, wide or extra-wide fitting,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or
a handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 302
MADE IN
ENGLAND
•Swan* Pens Black and Coloured from 20/-.
•Swan' Minors from 15/-. ■ Blackbird ’ Pens
from 10/-, 'Swan' Ink from 6d. per bottle.
SWAN
“ PENS
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post fret.
MABIE, TODD & CO.. LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.l.
Factories : London & Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD..
181. Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
For the
Long eS ’
Service
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
>5
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officti: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRITAIN —MaKe Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L.N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman”—B4 hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply jor full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
You will Never Forget
m
i
as,
your journey across
Canada on the way to
England
Canadian Pacific Trains
travel the finest scenic
route through the Rockies
The comforts, and luxurious
appointments on those
famous trains ‘ The Imperial,’
‘ The Dominion ’ and ‘ Moun-
taineer ’ add a hundred per
cent, to a journey of unending
delight through the world’s
most beautiful scenery.
Canadian Pacific has set a new
standard of train service and
cuisine—valet service—showers —
open and lounge observation cars
—white waiters. Liberal stop-
overs arranged at Banff, Lake
Louise and other resorts in the
Rockies, also convenient con-
nections for those wishing to
visit Eastern United States Cities.
No worry. All arrangements
made before leaving Australia.
Write or call for details and
illustrated booklets*
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
World’s Greatest Travel System
TRAINS - STEAMERS - HOTELS
’ 32/6
(1) Where can I get instructions for mak-
ing a charcoal-gas generator for attaching
to a kerosene tractor? (2) Why does char-
coal gas give only 75 p.c. power compared
with kerosene? (3) Would forced induction
make up loss? (4) Could loss he made up
by increasing engine revs, from 900 to 1.100
per min. and working in low gear instead of
high gear (low gear, 2 m.p.h.; high gear,
3 m.p.h. at 900 revs.) ?—2147.
(1) You arc not likely to get the infor
mation anywhere. Equipments now upon
the market have been designed after much
experimental work and the manufacturers
keep their secrets to themselves. You can
buy a plant from Motor Tractors, Ltd.,
Bridge-street, Sydney. (2) Because it has
a lower calorific value than either petrol or
kerosene. (3) Loss of power can be par-
tially overcome by that means. (4) By
working your tractor in low gear instead of
in high gear you would reduce your output
of work by one-third for the same labor
costs. It is doubtful if this loss of output
would be compensated for by the cheaper
fuel used.
Are there any uses to which prickly-pcar
can be put?— 22o4.
The plant has been tried for the manufac-
ture of paper, cardboard, power-alcohol,
fibrous-building sheets, etc., but production
has proved unprofitable.
(1) Where can I get training in wool-
classing in Brisbane? (2) Fees and length
■ of course? —22o3.
(1) Brisbane Central Technical College.
(2) Fees, £4 4s. per term; four terms per year.
Duration of the course is three years, but
with a pupil having some practical knowledge
of the business, an arrangement may be
made for a two years’ course.
I purpose buying Shorthorns to improve
my herd. Some rules for guidance? —-1725.
If the aim is beef cattle, the following are
.some of the most essential points: Straight
top line making for a back wide and level
from withers to tail setting. Broad withers
and broad hips. Well-sprung ribs coming out
level from the backbone, filling up the space
well just behind the shoulders. Good depth
at brisket, which should be broad and well-
rounded, making for fulness and capacious-
ness of chest. Good girth, about equal in
depth from chest right back to flanks, which
latter must be deep and thick. Hindquar-
ters should be long and full from the hips
to the pin bones (on each side of tail) and
heavily fleshed right down to near the hocks,
leaving only a small portion of the thigh
that is not heavily fleshed within and with-
out, and practically no hind split about level
of udder. The bone must foe fine, as evi-
denced by fineness of legs, tail, horns and
head, which latter must be relatively small.
The legs should also be short, with hocks well
carried, i.e., poking neither in nor out. The
skin must be mellow and hair soft and
fine. The skin should be of a rich cream or
nearly orange, especially around eyes and
the bare part of the nose. The general
appearance should be one of health and
robustness, suggesting capacity for quick
growth and good “doing.” I-lair color is
important, mostly as evidence of purity. The
most common color is roan, but all white
and practically all red are permissible. If
the dual-purpose Shorthorn is intended, the
above-mentioned points still hold for mod-
erate milkers; but, for heavy production,
fleshiness of hocks and fulness underneath
must give way to some considerable extent
to udder and udder room. The udder
must, of course, possess capacity to develop. It
must be attached well up behind and well
forward towards navel, carry four well-sized
and symmetrically-placed teats and not be
unduly split up between its respective quar-
ters.
How to join leather driving-belts? —2333.
Mix 10 parts of bisulphide of carbon and
1 part of oil of turpentine, and dissolve it
in a sufficient quantity of gutta-percha to
form a paste. Thoroughly clean the pieces
of leather to be joined by laying a rag upon
their surface and placing a hot iron upon
it. This will remove all traces of oil and
grease. Both pieces are then spread with
the cement and subjected to pressure until
the cement has become dry.
What is the maximum height above water
at which a centrifugal pump can be operated
at high efficiency? —22B9.
The suction head may be as great as 20ft.
without undue loss in efficiency, provided
packing is properly looked after. Most trouble
is due to improper packing, which wears hard
and leaks badiy. As the suction head in-
creases the leakage in the packing becomes
more pronounced, and for this reason a
smaller suction head is beneficial.
Recipe for a fire-resisting mortar for open
fireplaces ? —2276.
Ordinary cement will resist average heat
if attention is paid to the details of placing
it. Thoroughly clean the bricks and wash
them prior to placing the mortar. Mix up a
mortar of 1 of cement and 2\ of sand and
place -Jin. thick. “Cure” the mortar for at
least 10 days by covering with wet bags and
keeping damp for that period.
Hoiv to rid a gum-tree of eucalyptus scale
( Eriococcus ) ? When should the work be
done? —2065.
Spray with miscible white oil —1 pint to
5 gallons of water, about December or
January.
How to cure a dog of tapeworms? Have
tried areca nut. —2247.
Powdered areca nut is a very reliable
remedy; failure may be due to its being old
or dose being too small. Try 2gr. for each
pound of the dog’s weight. Repeat in a few
days. Starve the dog for a day before giving
the dose. Or dissolve 4gr. tablet of arecoline
hydrobromide in loz. of water, and give small
toy dogs Idr.; small terriers, 2dr.; large ter-
riers and small kelpies, 4dr.; mi'ge dogs, loz.
Starve the dog overnight, and dose in the
morning. Walk the dog about for a few
minutes after giving the dose.
Cause and cure of scaly deposits on the
legs of poultry? —2l27.
Caused by the scaly-leg mite. Paint the
legs with crude petroleum or a mixture of
three parts fat, one part sulphur and one
part kerosene. Several applications may ne
necessary at intervals of two or three weeks.
The perches should be painted with wood-
preserving oil or creosote.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Searchlight”: When sowing the corn
patch dip the seed maize in a weak mixture
of tar, and bandicoots will not trouble it.
If rabbits ringbark the fruit trees a swathe
of bagging will discourage them. No trouble
will be found with white ants in a building
if fowls are allowed under it occasionally.
In summer a mixture of borax and sugar
placed where black ants are a nuisance will
soon shift them. Kerosene put in a small
trough at the bottom of the window-pane
will check the blowfly pest.
“Dunboy”: Old plough discs are handy
when fencing; they do well as heels for
strainer-post struts —last longer than the
wooden blocks and are not so prone to slip
or twist. Again, when single-handed and
reeling out coils of barbed-wire with the aid
of a crowbar suspended across the body of
the cart, place a disc each side of the reel;
this will protect it from catching on the
side and breaking the wire.
“Bloss”: I find it a waste of time when
rabbits are burrowing under netting fences
to dig a deep trench, let down a piece of net-
ting and fill in the hole, as they will go
deeper still and get through. Better dig the
burrow right out both sides of the fence,
and where necessary put fresh netting at
the bottom of the existing fence, laying about
one foot of netting horizontally on the ground
at the bottom of trench; place a few weighty
stones on it and don’t fill in the burrow.
Bunny won’t trouble that part of the fence
again.
“A.C.8.”: The best strainer and one that
costs nothing is a stout fork from a near-
by gum. Bore a hole through the single
end about three inches or more from base,
place end of wire through and give a couple
of turns. Strain to strainer-posts by wind-
ing up slowly, keeping the butt hard against
the post. Any wire can be strained in this
manner until it breaks.
“Rastus”: When cleaning out a sheep’s
or pig’s head be sure, after splitting it, to
remove the entire lengths of both nasal
channels. Once you have seen the mucus,
blood, etc., in them you will always remem-
ber to do so.
“Cass”: Foul air at the bottom of shallow
wells has cost many a farmer his life. Before
going down fasten a piece of tie-wire to a
lighted candle and lower it with string to
the bottom; if the air is dangerous it goes
out. To remove the bad air, make a can-
vas-cloth chute Bft. long by 6ft. wide; curve
one end round the top of the well on the
side opposite the wind, and suspend the
canvas to slope up and over the well. This
drives the fresh air down to the bottom of
the shaft, and can remain in position until
the job is complete.
“Gee-Bee”: My advice to the fat-lamb
raiser is to have an even lot of, ewes.
It does not matter if they are merino,
comeback or crossbred; have them reason-
ably even, and you will get an even drop of
lambs and a better lambing, and save a lot
of headaches at shearing-time.
“Karaway”: An unprotected haystack is
a great harbor for snakes. They go after
mice and frogs, and also make their homes
there. A low galvanised-iron fence will keep
them out.
“Bill R.”: The depth of tumbling flood-
waters is always difficult to judge. In any
watercourse leading to the homestead erect
a squared post with the gradations in feet
from the causeway upward painted thereon
in large white figures. Then when a way-
farer meets a flood sweeping the roadway he
may read at a glance if it is safe to attempt
a crossing, and a possible tragedy may be
averted.
“Tena”: If borers are in fruit trees, it
is a good plan to select a bit a shade' larger
than the hole made by the pest and bore
the hole clean ; then drive in wooden pegs
of the same size as the bit used and cut
off level. Prepare by soaking for three hours
in paraffin. Trees may be saved in this
manner.
“Gumblegubbin”; When Binghi is burn-
ing down a tree, he places the wood end-on
against the butt on the windward side. The
wood thus burns slowly, and the flame is
constantly on the tree, the sticks being
shoved in from time to time. The white man
places the wood broadside to the tree, and
uses a big pile to accomplish what the black
fellow does with a few sticks.
“Beefo”: A pole without a crook on it
or one on which there is no light hook
is useless for cattle that get down in the
trucks. Prodding a beast with a pole only
bruises. With crook or hook the horn can
be caught and the beast pulled up. Failing
that, try a hit on the nose.
“Karaway”: Empty pint-bottles, particu-
larly white ones, can be made into jam-
pots by de-necking them. To do that, fill
with water up to the line where you want
to cut them. Then tie a strand of wool
that has been soaked in turpentine round
the bottle, just above the water, and light
it. When it has burnt round, a tap will
knock the top off.
“Dimon”: The simplest way of cleaning
paint is to mix some whiting to a thin
paste with cold water, rub it on lightly with
a rag, and afterwards wash with clean
water. The whiting will remove grease and
other stains without harming the most deli-
cate of paints.
“Hatter”: Large seeds such as peas and
beans prefer a seed-bed that is fairly loose
and not too fine. Small seeds such as grass,
carrots and millet require for good germina-
tion a very fine seed-bed; the seeds should
be lightly covered and the soil well consoli-
dated.
“Rab”: I have just finished clearing a
300-acre paddock of rabbits at a cost of
Is. Id. an acre. Two youths were employed
at £2 a week each, one working 80 steel
traps and the other burning off harbor. The
trapper got the skins. The job took 28
days, and 2200 rabbits were destroyed. Traps
were lined across the paddock, and as they
were moved forward the burrows were filled
in and hollow logs, stumps and trees burnt.
This drove the surface rabbits forward in
a mob to the furthest corner, where they
were held and destroyed. Admittedly the
warrens arc still intact, and I shall have
to be careful. I suppose digging out is the
cheapest method in the long run, but finances
would not permit.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confiqed to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Compositor and lino operator, N.S.W., journalistic
exp., wants position anywhere.—23s7.
Scot (23), N.S.W., exp. in dairying and wheat-
farming, wants job on farm. Refs. —2379.
Jackeroo (19), well educated, previous exp., wants
position on sheep or cattle station, west or n.-west
N.S.W., with prospect of advancement. —2343.
Retrenched bank clerk (24), S.A., country exp.,
wants employment anywhere. Refs.—2423.
To buy regular supplies of prickly pear in small
quantities.—2373.
To buy books dealing with amateur theatre pro-
duction and the repertory movement.—24lo.
To buy, “South Wind,” by Norman Douglas.—
2445.
To buy copies of “Autocar” and “Motor,” published
in England, prior to 1922. —2425.
To buy small lots of mother-of-pearl shell for
carving.—2298.
To buy “The Theory of Chess and Draughts.”
—2454.
Words of song “On the Road to Kimberley.”-
2345.
Words of poem by John Boyle O’Reilly wherein
various characters nominate a single word likely to
exercise the greatest influence for good over man-
kind.—23l7.
Words of poem entitled “Old Boko,” commencing
“An old bark hut on the mountain side in a spot
that was lone and drear.” —2386.
Words of verse “Maloney’s Cockatoo.”—24s6.
Words of the soldiers’ songs, “Jolly Good Luck
to the Girl Who Loves a Soldier,” “When We’ve
Wound-up the Watch on the Rhine,” “Oh, It’s a
Lovely War” and “Take Me Back to Dear Old
Blighty.”—246o.
Words of poem containing the lines “New occa-
sions teach new duties; Time makes ancient good
uncouth.”—24s3.
Words of song “Every Race Has Its Flag But
the Coon” ; also French words of “The Marseillaise.”
—2439.
To exchange books for shells from any part of
Australia or Pacific Islands. —2435.
Copy of 1923 Studebaker Special Six Tourer
Owner’s Manual. —2428.
Information Sought.
Details of Adam Lindsay Gordon's life
in England and reason why he came to Aus-
tralia? —2420.
He was the sou of a military officer who
had served in India and was afterwards
Professor of Oriental languages at Chelten-
ham College. Adam was born at Fayal in
the Azores on October 19, 1833, and educated
at Cheltenham, Worcester, and the Royal
Military Academy, Woolwich, also keeping a
few terms at Merton College, Oxford. At
none of these places was he a satisfactory
student, and his exploits as a boxer and
steeplechase rider so irritated his family that
he was sent off to Australia in 1853.
A man of 37 who has had a limited State
School education, married, with two small
children, a book-keeper in a small country
town, wishes to become a doctor. What are
his chances, and what would it cost to take
his degree? —2239.
It would take him at least three years to
prepare for matriculation and entrance to
the Medical School. After matriculation he
would be required to spend at least six
years in the medical faculty, passing annual
examinations at the end of each year. The
work would be full-time day work, and
would not allow the student to take up any
outside activity. The cost involved would
be more than £3OO in fees alone for the six
years.
(1) (a) Where was 2nd Battalion A.I.F.
recruited? (b) In what division was it? (2)
What battalions were recruited in Melbourne
during 1914-15 and their divisions? (3)
What battalions fought on Gallipoli? (4)
Any book giving history of battalions and
divisions during the war? —2299.
(1) (a) N. S. Wales; (b) Ist Division.
(2) sth, 6th, 7th, Bth Battalions (Ist Divi-
sion) ; 14th Battalion (4th Brigade; this
fought at Anzac in the composite N.Z. and
Australian Division. After the evacuation
of Gallipoli the 4th Brigade was put into the
newly-formed 4tli Australian Division) ; 21st,
22nd, 23rd, 24th Battalions (2nd Division) ;
29th Battalion and portion of 31st Battalion
(put into the newly-formed sth Division in
Egypt early in 1916). (3) Ist to 28tli Bat-
talions. (4) “Official History of Australia
in the War,” by C. E. W. Bean, vols. 1 and 2.
Also separate histories of the Ist. sth, 12th,
13th, 14th, 16th, 22nd, 24th, 27th and 28th
Battalions.
What are the weights of the different divi-
sions in boxing? —229B.
Flyweight, Bst.; bantamweight, Bst. 61b.;
featherweight, 9st.; lightweight, 9st. 91b.;
welterweight, lOst. 71b.; middleweight, list.
61b.; light-heavyweight, 12st. 61b.; heavy-
weight, all over 12st. 61b.
Where the address of the owner of a.block
of land in N.S.W. is unknown to the council,
and a person otherwise uninterested pays the
rates for more than 20 years, are there any
means whereby the person who has paid the
rates can claim title to the land? —23ol.
If the person who paid the rates has been
in occupation of the land for 20 years, and
if the title is not a Torrens title, he can make
application for what is known as “a posses-
sory title.” See the Lands Titles Office,
Sydney, or write.
How is a wireless receiving valve ex-
hausted of air? —2327.
Most of the air is drawn out by vacuum
pumps Gases remaining in the metal of the
filament, grid and plate are removed by heat-
mg tfie nlainent with an electric current,
and by placing the valve within the field of
a coil carrying high-frequency currents. This
heats up the electrodes and drives out the
gases, which are then drawn from the bulb
by the pumps. The final traces of gas are
removed by heating a small piece of mag-
nesium which has previously been placed
inside the valve. The flashing of the mag-
nesium causes this metal to be deposited on
the inside of the glass bulb, and gives it its
silvery appearance.
What are the conditions of the bookplate
competition now being conducted in Sydney?
2394.
The competition lias been instituted by
the N.S.W. Bookplate Club, closes on
January 31, 1933, and applies to all book-
plates made since last April. It is open
to anyone who may care to compete, and
there is no entry fee. Competitors must
lodge three separate examples of their work,
which will remain the property of the club.
There are no restrictions as to size, but
all entries must be suitable for a bookplate.
There are 14 separate prizes, ranging from
£1 Is. to £6 65., and amounting to £47 55.,
for bookplates executed in different mediums
and designed to meet special needs. Entries
should be forwarded to the secretary of the
club, Frank P. Clune, 61 Macleay-street,
Potts Point, Sydney.
What power is there in Australian law to
prevent the formation of clubs devoted to the
practice of nudity? —22ss.
Exposing the person naked to public view
or “any notorious lewdness or scandalous
conduct which openly outrages decency” is
a misdemeanor at Common Law punishable
by fine or imprisonment, or both; and under
the Crimes Act every indecent exposure of
the person which, if seen by two or more
persons, is punishable at Common Law or by
Statute is equally an offence and punish-
able “if such exposure was, or could have
been, seen by one person.” The formation
of a club would not affect the fundamental
illegality of public nudity.
How to get rid of worms which are ruin-
ing my newly-made tennis-court of red ant-
bed?,—2246.
Water the court with a mixture of lib.
sulphuric acid to 3 gallons water. Make, the
mixture in an earthenware vessel, as it is
destructive to metal. Keep it off plants.
Another method is to water with a mixture of
1 part carbolic acid to 40 parts water.
How to grow a, Moreton Bay fig-tree?
How long would such a tree take to mature?
What space should it be given? —2o9B.
It should be planted from a four-inch
pot, nursery-grown plant, the cost of which
is about Is. 6d. If planted in good soil
this tree will spread 50 feet from the butt.
Its roots also spread a long distance and
are dangerous to foundations if planted too
near them.
TJnder golf rule 22 may a ball be deemed
to be unplayable when off the fairway in
the rough? If so, may such a ball, under
stroke, rule 11, be taken out on to the fair-
way should there be no place to play it
from anywhere near the unplayable lie? The
rough is of such a nature that in many
instances a ball could not be played even
if and when found, as ground off the fair-
way is covered in long grass. —2272.
It has been authoritatively decided that, if
a ball be lost or unplayable, the player
shall play his next stroke as nearly as pos-
sible to the spot from where the ball which
is lost or unplayable was played, adding a
penalty stroke to the score for the hole.
This seems to cover your case.
What industries received bounties from
the Commonwealth during the year 1931-
32, and how much did they get? —2lB6.
Wire-netting, £6334; traction-engines,
£1058; sulphur, £30,962; flax and linseed,
£1561; wine exported, £201,268; seed
cotton, £64,206; cotton yarn, £94,395; cocoa
beans and nutmeg produced in Papua and
New Guinea. £830; gold, £80,904; and
wheat, £3,296,464. Total, £3,777,982.
(1) Cost of new 'SOcwt. Ford truck
straight-out or on terms? (2) Miles per
hour one could expect from such a truck?
(3) Oil and petrol consumption? (4) Esti-
mated life and cost of tyres and breakages,
three years? (5) Is it advisable to keep to
the standard load? (6) How long would it
take an intelligent bushman to learn to drive
and to repair breakages? (7) Could he
earn £3 per week from truck on a contract
worth £290 per annum and pay expenses?
Contract provides that he travels 318 miles
per week. —l 996.
(1) Cash price £285. Terms in approved
cases may be arranged for one-third deposit
and the balance extended over 18 months.
(2) and (3) Depends entirely upon loads
and roads, and while petrol- and oil-consump-
tions also depend upon these, 16 miles per
gallon and 1000 miles per gallon of lubrica-
tion oil are figures which may be considered
reasonably correct. (4) Opinions differ
greatly as to when a truck’s life is ended.
Repairs may reasonably be expected to cost
£1 for every 1000 miles, and for general use
the tyres should cover 16,000 miles. (5) A
small margin of overload would not be
injurious under good running conditions. (6)
An intelligent man should handle a truck
reasonably well after a fortnight’s instruc-
tion, but the locating of faults is a matter
for a qualified mechanic. (7) No.
Manner in which bed bugs can be exter-
minated and cleared out of a r00m? —2267.
Make up a mixture of |gal. kerosene,
1 quart spirit of turpentine and loz. oil
of pennyroyal. Paint this freely into all
woodwork, such as skirtings, door and win-
dow frames, and furniture. The treatment
must be kept up over a period of at least
a month, to destroy hatchings of eggs from
time to time, until the life cycle of the
insects is exhausted; persistence is most
important. Pure kerosene is almost as good
as mixture mentioned. If the insects are in
papered walls, the rooms must be fumigated
by burning sulphur for several hours, with
all doors, windows and apertures sealed with
pasted paper. When using the liquid insec-
ticide, allow it to trickle into all floor and
wall crevices where the pests hide by day.
What steamship lines carry Australian
mails to America, and how often? Time of
transit to San Francisco and New York? —
2185. , ,
A Matson liner leaves Sydney every fourth
Saturday; time in transit to San Francisco,
18 days; New York, 22 days. A Canadian-
Australasian liner leaves Sydney every fourth
Thursday. Time to San Francisco, 23 days;
New York, 27 days. A Union Royal Mail
liner leaves Sydney every fourth Thursday.
Time to San Francisco, 22 days; New York,
26 days.
(1) What constitutes a city in N.S.W.?
(2) What position does Sydney hold among
other cities of the Empire, and of the world ?
2320.
(1) A municipality may be proclaimed a
city under the N.S.W. Local Government
Act if it is an independent centre of popu-
lation with an average population of at
least 20,000 people, and an average annual
income of at least £20,000. (2) _ Sydney is
the third largest city in the British Empire
—London and .Calcutta come before it and
the 18th largest in the world.
How are medals or placques electrotyped?
—2269.
A mould in plaster is made and coated
with black lead or plumbago. A copper
wire is fastened round the mould and the
wire attached to the negative pole of an
electric battery, thus forming the cathode.
A sheet of copper is connected to the posi-
tive battery pole to form the anode. The
anode and cathode are immersed in a solu-
tion of copper-sulphate and water. On
switching on the current the molecules of
copper-sulphate are broken up into metallic
copper, which is deposited On the mould and
into the acid part which combines with the
copper anode to form copper-sulphate. To
obtain a substantial thickness, it must be
left for some time, after which the copper
is separated from the mould and backed
with lead.
Particulars of Commonwealth and States
public debt at June 30, 1922, 1924, 1926
and 1928?—2036.
1922- C’wealth, £364,839,000; States,
£519,538,000; total, £884,377,000. 1924:
C’wealth, £361.964,000; States, £588,323,000 ;
total, £950,287,000. 1926: C’wealth,
£379,939,000; States. £634.062.000; total,
£1,014,001,000. 1928 : C’wealth, £380.382,000;
States, £714,421,000; total, £1,094,803.000.
The figures for 1926 include as debt of the
Commonwealth an amount of £5,000,000,
and for 1928 an amount of approximately
£7,600,000, being additional liabilities m re-
spect of loans for soldier land settlement.
Arrangements for the liabilities to be taken
over by the Commonwealth have not yet
been made.
How to polish tanned leather? —2260.
First wash the leather with a mixture
of paste thinned down with water. It should
be so thin as to leave no white mark on
the leather surface. When dry brush over
with glair made by beating the white of one
egg in half a teacup of water,_ and adding
a teaspoon of vinegar and a pinch of salt.
Beat this well and leave for 24 hours ; repeat
three days running, and on the fourth
brush the mixture over the paste-washed
leather. Finish with white paraffin wax
dissolved in turpentine.
(1) Qualifications, educational, physical
and other, required of candidates for positions
as firemen in Brisbane? (2) Commencing
salary? (3) Any vacancies at present? —
2049.
(1) A fireman must be a British subject,
at least sft. Sin. and not more than 6ft. in
height, at least 36in. in natural chest
measurement, and not under 21 nor over
30 years of age, unless he has been pre-
viously employed as a fireman, and is, in
the opinion of the chief officer,. efficient as
such. He must also produce evidence as to
character. Further particulars will be found
in “By-laws of the Metropolitan Fire
Brigades Board,” obtainable from the Gov-
ernment Printer, Brisbane. (2) Proba-
tioners, £3 18s. 3d. per week; third-class fire-
men, £4 ss. per week. (3) No.
(1) What inks or colors can I use to print
linoleum or wood-blocks on to fabric? (2)
How are they used? —2215.
(1) Oil colors, dyes, watercolors, poster
colors, silver and gold bronze. (2) Thin tube
oil colors with a little turpentine and add a
few drops of stencilling mordant, which will
set the color. Apply to the block with a
roller or flat bristle brush. Dyes and water-
colors need to be thickened with paste or
equal parts of paste and gum mastic. Apply
to block with soft brush or dab on with a
pad. Poster colors are thinned with a few
drops of water and dabbed on to block with a
pad. Bronze powders are mixed with muci-
lage to apply, and will not wash.
How is agraffito pottery decoration done?
—2254.
The article is formed of clay of some
definite color and dipped into a bath of
some other color until an even coating has
been deposited. When dry, further coats
of various tints are applied one above the
other as required. The design is then drawn
on, and pieces are cut through the different
layers to reveal the colors underneath, in
whatever arrangement has been decided on.
Information Supplied.
2105.—Rarey’s system of horse-training
is based on kindness, patience and firmness.
Various devices are used to reduce the horse’s
resistance. A small wooden block is retained
between the forelegs at the girth by a rope
collar thrown over the head, and a pair of
padded hobbles, attached to the ends of a
line run through the sheave, are secured
loosely just above the hocks. By alternat-
ing the action of the hind legs this appliance
prevents kicking and permits the colt to
walk or trot only.—“Cavesson.”
Does Anybody Know?
How to eradicate the common rush-like
plant, Typhia angustifoMa, from a bore-
drain other than by digging?—223s.
Brief Answers.
H.M.: The picture is Lambert’s “Important
People”. .. .J.8.P.: Wengellabah means “firewood
scarce”; Malunna, “a bird’s nest”; Kunopia, “a
lagoon” ; and Bunnerong, “sleeping lizard”—all are
aboriginal words... .T.L.: The phrase “Higher than
Gilderoy’s kite” means “very high.” It is derived
from the gallows on which a Perthshire robber
named Patrick McGregor, alias Gilderoy, was hanged
in Edinburgh in July, 1638, and from which his body
looked like a kite... .R.C.D.: A first edition of
Ohamier’s “Jack Adams, the Mutineer” in good
condition is worth £2 2s. to £3 3s W.K.: H.
Ling Roth’s “The Maori Mantle’’ is now out of
print and very scarce. A second-hand copy would
cost about £3.... J.T.M.: Write Legal Aid Dept.,
Queen’s-square, Sydney... .V.L.: Write to Mr.
Wilkinson, Research Dept., Amalgamated Wireless,
Ltd., 47 York-street, Sydney.... Agent: Advice given
by A in confidence, at the request of another (B)
and for his protection, is privileged. If B broke
the seal of confidence and passed it on to D, B might
be liable... .L.D.G.: There is no legal compulsion on
the children by the second marriage to maintain their
mother’s children by a previous marriage.... J-H.:
Only if such a provision was made a condition of
employment in the agreement between the parties.
S.O.: (1) It is quite out of the question to
utilise your transformer for a charging current of
around three amperes, when its secondary is only
designed to carry 0.1 amp. (2) Purchase a dry
metal rectifier and connect it in series with the
transformer secondary. A rheostat will also be
necessary to adjust the charging rate to its correct ■
value... .J.W.D.: Fieldhouse’s “Complete Commercial
Book-keeping” (13s. 6d.), Muirden’s “Commonwealth
Grammar’’ (35.), Collins and Pink’s “Precis Writ-
ing” (6s. 6d.) ... .G. 8.: The climate at Charleville
(Q) is unsuitable for the production of ginger....
T.C.A.: Write Griffith, Hassell and Griffith, Asbestos
House, York-street, Sydney. .. .H.H.: To eradicate
booklice from cupboards, use carbon bisulphide at
the rate of lib. per 100 cubic feet. Pour it into
a saucer and place it near the top of the cupboard.
The whole is closed up for 48 hours. The fumes
are highly combustible... .A. 8.: Under the provisions
of the W.A. Road District Act 1919, a road board
may define a special area by proclamation for the
purpose of fixing a higher rate than that levied on
the balance of the district. You can obtain full
information from the secretary of your road board.
. ...R.W.W.: “‘The Bulletin’ Australian Year-Book”
will be published at the end of the year. Price
per copy: Cloth, 25., postage sd. ; paper, Is., postage
3d G.M.: Try Paling and Co., 338 George-street,
Sydney... .V.C.: (1) See “Communism and Christi-
anity,” by G, V. Portus. (2) and (3) See Bentham’s
“Theory of Legislation,” Graham’s “English Politi-
cal Philosophy” and Davidson’s “Political Thought
in England from Bentham to J. S. Mi 115”....
L.C.: See “List of N. S. Wales Abo. Place-names
and Their Meanings,” compiled by W. W. Thorpe,
obtainable from the Australian Museum, Sydney
G.M.We suggest you use roofing felt, 3ft. wide, at
from Is. sd. to 2s. lid. per yard, procurable from
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Sydney. To cover
your roof would cost £l2 to £18... .W.L.R.: Write
to “Poultry” newspaper, 13 Goulburn-street, Sydney.
P.C.A.: Publication has been postponed until
about November 1 J.R.R.: Write Administrator.
Norfolk Island J.M.: If your father left a will
a copy can be obtained from the Registrar of
Probates, Sydney... .N. 8.: There are no Australian
agents so far as we can trace. Write W. F. Young,
Inc., 266 Lyman-street, Mass., U.S.A D.D.: Fits
in cats are commonly due to internal irritation. Such
may be due to gastric troubles, bad teeth and
especially round worms. As proper treatment for
the latter condition _is not easy, consult a vet
J. : Condition appears to be due to mange
parasites. The pup should be thoroughly washed in
potassa sulphurata solution (one ounce to one gallon
warm water) and the hairless parts anointed with
a 7 p.c. salicylic acid ointment. Improvement should
be looked for in thi-ee or four weeks.. . .P.A.: No
home treatment can be recommended. Consult a vet.
L.B.C.: Movements can be procured without
cases, prices ranging from 50s. to £3O. The cheapest
four-quarter Westminster chime grandfather move-
ment to be recommended would cost £l5, while
a striking cathedral gong movement would cost
£8 10s W.R.C.: From E. H. Shea, teacher of
printing, Sydney Tech., Harris-street, Ultimo. Other-
wise, from Melb. Uni. Press A.P.: The Anglican
Church has a greater following throughout the world
than the other mentioned C.H.D.: If solvent at the
date of his death, the sum assured would go intact to
the widow. Should, however, he be bankrupt at that
date, two years’ premiums prior to death would be
available to creditors.... C.R.: The nrinciple is that
you are not entitled to divert the natural flow of
water from your ground on to your neighbor’s, and
the same applies to him. In your case, however, the
steps you have taken seem to be justifiable... .R.E.:
S. M. Bruce, while in London, will draw £3750
p.a., representing his salary as a member of Parlia-
ment, his salary as a Minister and a special allow-
ance for expenses in London. As he is doiiig the
High Commissioner’s work, a -Minister’s salary
is saved C.B. J.: (1) White Nose carried
6st. 121 b. when he won the Melbourne Cup
in 1931. (2) Phar Lap had 37 wins, 3 seconds
and 2 thirds from 51 starts and won £66,738;
Gloaming had 57 wins and 9 seconds from 67 starts
and won £43,100 R. 8.: “Transport Manager’s
Year-Book” (10s. 6d.), obtainable from Industrial
Transport Publications, Ltd., Dudley House, South-
ampton-street, Strand, London, W.C.2 .... J.S.: The
intermediate and final examinations of the Austral-
asian Institute of Cost Accountants are held in
March and September, commencing approximately on
the first Monday of these months... .J.T.D.: There
are the Commercial Bank of Australia and the
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney. Which do you
mean ? Present general rate is from five to six p.c
K. : Incomes entirely exempt from the payment of
N.S.W. Unemployment Relief Tax include old-age,
invalid, war and widows’ pensions and allowances
under the Family Endowment Act, the official salaries
of Consuls, etc., the incomes of bodies which do not
conduct business for profit or gain, and the incomes
of life assurance cos. except dividends taxable in
the hands of shareholders E.T.: (1) Probably
Albizzia procera. (2) Timber resembles walnut,
seasons well, and is used for agricultural implements,
bridges and houses. In India teaplanters use it for
stakes and tea boxes A.D.G.: Write Patents Office,
Brisbane, Q’land... :W.R.H.: No, they are useless
for the purpose. Tadpoles of common species of
frog will not feed on the larvae of mosquitoes
E.K.: The total Gallipoli casualties (including French
and naval) were 33,532 killed, 78,518 wounded and
7689 missing. Of these the Australians had 8587
killed and 19,367 wounded T.M.: An account of
Benjamin Carvosso’s life and work will be found
in Blencowe’s “Faithful Pastor” (1859). You may
be able to see a copy at the Mitchell Library, Sydney.
. ...F.S.H.: Hughes was Prime Minister from Oct.
27, 1915, to Feb. 9, 1923 ; Bruce from Feb. 9, 1923,
to Oct. 22, 1929..G.C. i (1) The National Book
Council, 30 Little Russell-street, London, W.C.I. (2)
The Incorporated Society of Authors, Playwrights
and Composers, 11 Gower-street, London, W.C.1....
(Many others mailed.)


One Punch Palsy
By Montague Grover
Synopsis : Patsy Quirk, Illawarra
miner and amateur middleweight
champion, turns professional. Stan
. Carlisle, an artist friend, shows Patsy
and his trainer , Buff Cody, a drawing,
The Awakening of Titanic.” Buff
pronounces it “’ot stuff”, 4 Patsy,
acknowledging its beauty, thinks it too
daring. He asks Phyllis Deane, an
attractive commercial artist, to conic
for an ’outing. She declines , telling
him she is sitting for Stan’s “ Titania ”
picture. Patsy is shocked, and she
pronounces him a wowser. He buys the
drawing and presents it to Stan. Des
Quirk gets five years for _ attempted
murder during a coal strike. Patsy
fights grimly to raise money to free
his brother.
Chapter XVIII.
THE Stadium had put up the prices for
the big fight, but that did not affect
the attendance. The crowd surged
around the entrances an hour before the
boys entered the ring for the preliminaries.
The takings raised the spirits of the man-
agement to intoxication and depressed Buff
Cody exceedingly, as he recalled what Patsy
had lost by signing the contract. One thing
was certain: he would not sign another
when he gazed upon the field of humanity,
in the harvesting of whose fruits he would
have no share.
The Stadium people recognised that, too.
They realised now that Patsy was their
greatest attraction and that he knew it.
All they could do was to pray the fight
might end in a draw, or, at any rate, in
a' decision, that the interest might be re-
tained for a return match.
The gods which care for fight promoters
answered that prayer. It was a glorious
fight, from both an expert and a popular
standpoint—willing, scientific and without a
dull moment. The men fought themselves
to a standstill. Punishment was frequent
but! not severe—both the contestants were
too well-skilled and too careful to allow
a blow to land with full force —and, when
the twenty rounds had been scored there
was little to choose between them.
The decision was anticipated, but the
hush preceding the referee’s announcement
was almost painful. There was the awful
possibility of his making a mistake—the
more awful possibility that Ben Wallace
might have succeeded in getting him to
listen to reason. But the fears were un-
founded; the fight was a drawn one.
Buff and the South Coast contingent
were, of course, convinced that Patsy had
won; the Yanks in the McCabe’s corner
were. equally convinced that Patsy had
been well beaten. But the critics and those
•who made an effort to see with both eyes
knew that the referee was right.
Patsy had emerged from the journeyman
class. He had fought a draw with a man
who had fought a draw with the world’s
champion—who had, in fact, a solid back-
ing of experts to say that he should have
been given the decision. Patsy was him-
self in the championship class now. The
difficulty would be to secure suitable oppo-
nents for him.
He was taken to Melbourne to meet the
Victorian champion and contrived to dis-
pose of him in seven rounds. The same
number served to secure victory over
Cyclone Smith, another of the American
contingent whom he had not previously
met. Then the Stadium was at its wits
end to find adversaries until some arrived
from overseas.
An offer from a Perth syndicate pre-
vented Patsy from remaining idle. He
was guaranteed £3OO and expenses to go
West and fight Leonard, one of his early
opponents, on Perth Cup night. Leonard
had already accepted the terms offered;
he knew he was marked for defeat, but
was a philosophical soul, ready to take
whatever was coming to him, provided it
was accompanied by monetary inducement.
The trip to the West occupied some
w r eeks. Owing' to Patsy’s tolerance, Leon-
ard was allowed to stay 15 rounds. Then
Patsy returned. to Sydney. He examined
his bank-book and it seemed to be a work
of fiction. Was it really possible that he
could have become the possessor of such
vast wealth? Patsy feared that some day
he might wake up. • . .
The cottage at Illawarra had long been
paid off. and, in addition, Patsy was the
owner of three of the biggest shops in the
main street. But in spite of all these
investments, and in spite of the fact that he
was spending much more on his personal
entertainment than formerly, the money
had mounted up and up until he stood
aghast at the result.
He discovered what every capitalist dis-
covers—that it is not always possible for a
man to spend his money as he would. He
would cheerfully have thrown all he had
into the pool to have secured for Des a
pardon or a remission or even a lightening
of the burden that lies on the convict.
But the first two propositions were im-
possible : as for the third, Des himself
had absolutely declined to be a party to
anything of the sort. He was a sinner,
he held, working out his salvation by
suffering.
As for his parents, Patsy spent as much
on them as they would permit, but Mrs.
Quirk was for ever reproving him for his
extravagance, and his father’s Irish pride
rose stoutly against his offerings, and he
entered a protest so serious that Patsy
could not ignore it. He would have done
much to make the path easier for Stan,
but here, too, the pride of his friend stood
in his way. He wasn’t game to make any
offer. Surreptitiously he purchased some
of Stan’s drawings and pictures; openly
he paid him £2O to paint the portrait of
his mother, which proved a source of great
pride, to Martin Quirk.
“Real oil,” he would say to admiring
visitors. “None of yer oleographs for
P a tsy
The oft-made criticism that Mrs. Quirk
had no purple in her hair he would meet
with an indignant demand to know where
the critic gained his knowledge of art.
On the walls of the Quirk home were also
two paintings signed “P. Deane”—paintings
which Patsy had persuaded De Vernay to
purchase in his name.
“That fellow Deane’s pretty good, too
Martin would say. “They say up in Syd-
ney as he’ll make a name for himself yet.
As for Jimmy Packington, he had him-
self emerged from the ranks of the coke
workers and was in Sydney, having
achieved the ambition, long held, of break-
ing into the newspaper business; he was on
his feet. So was Bert Burnett; his facial
contortions had secured him a position in
vaudeville, after a brief career as a tram
conductor.
There were dozens —hundreds—of deserv-
ing charities, Pasy was aware. Father
Phelan had got £5O from him for one of
his orphanages. But charity begins at
home, and Patsy was unable to place his
sudden earnings where the placing would
have given him most pleasure. ■
He went to Long Bay to see Des as
often as the regulations permitted—the
influence of Father Phelan had prevented
his being transferred to Goulbum or Parra-
matta, as they had feared. It was heait-
breaking for the brothers to converse
through the grating at first; but the feel-
ing wore off, after a few visits. At the
outset Des was overwhelmed with bitter
sorrow for his mother and for the man he
had injured. But the day came when he
was transfigured, his face glowed with the
exaltation of the martyr.
Always deeply religious, Des had listened
to the ministrations of his chaplain so
attentively that he had become convinced
that his own sin, the sufferings of his family,
the injury he had inflicted and the work-
ing out of his own redemption by servi-
tude, were all merely manifestations of
the Divine will. He was nothing but an
instrument in the hands of Clock whose
wisdom was beyond question. If God had
so ordained that he could attain to the
highest in him through degradation and
anguish, all must bow to the decision.
Patsy rejoiced over Des’s new attitude
towards his fate, not alone for his own
sake, but because it brought unexpected
relief to his mother. Mrs. Quirk now
ceased to fret over her imprisoned son. She
became even more devout than ever. She
kept Martin and Patsy up to the mark in
their religious devotions, and went about
her work and her play only a trifle more
sobered than she had been in the days when
Des was free and beyond reproach.
Chapter XIX.
Patsy had followed his mother’s injunc-
tion to attend St. Mary’s on Sunday morn-
ings, but it was not until recently that he
had found it necessary to, go to confession.
The impelling cause was a young woman.of
dashing style and flashing eyes—tall, dark
and with a complexion perfect in the half-
light. Facially she was handsome in a
languid way, and she affected a mode of
speech which she regarded as aristocratic
and especially seductive. She cooed rather
than spoke.
“Keep yer jaw well covered when, that
there tart’s about,” advised Buff Cody, the
first time he saw Hermione (she pronounced
it Her-my-on) Delves. “She’s a man-eater
if ever I seen one.”
■ Patsy was not afraid. He was in nowise
intoxicated by Hermione’s beauty nor in-
fatuated by her personality. All the same,
Hermione contrived to entangle him in a
mesh of trouble that at one time threatened
to involve him in heavy financial loss.
She had not many virtues, Hermione, but
one of them was an almost uncanny judg-
ment of character; another was the ability
to simulate other virtues and work on that
character to her own financial advantage.
When she first met Patsy she was under
the impression that he was some casual
boxing man making an occasional five-
pound note. Later, she discovered his prob-
able financial position. She cultivated his
acquaintance, which was easy, seeing that
a friend of hers was a friend of a new Yankee
fighter at that time located at Ben Buckler.
She impressed upon Patsy that her earlier
coldness had been due to natural modesty;
later, she impressed upon him her present
warmth was due wholly to her not being
able to subdue the throbs of her heart
towards him.
Even then Patsy felt no particular attrac-
tion towards the woman. His desire was
simply to be kindly and agreeable to one
who, on her own confidences, which she
assured him she had given to no other
person on earth, had had a bitter life of it.
A man of Patsy’s temperament, for such
a girl as Hermione, was an easy proposi-
tion.
“It was like puttin’ th’ booby prize winner
at th’ Y.M.C.A. competitions inter th’
ring with Gene Tunney,” commented Buff,
as he summed up the whole business at a
later date, when the seal was removed from
his mouth.
Hermione did not profess innocence to
Patsy. She had a past, but, through the
long years, she had fought to live it down,
to atone for her youthful sin. She had
been so young; she had had lio mother to
advise her.
“S’elp me,” cried Buff, “yer fell for a
tale like that! They’ll be sellin’ yer a
sundial next.”
Hermione had money troubles, she told
Patsy. She didn’t know where to turn.
Shopkeepers were threatening her—after she
had satisfactorily fixed Patsy, she took good
care they threatened her. She wrote to
Patsy and received letters, full of admis-.
sions in reply.
Patsy’s bank book became a realistic
work. It showed debits of £l5O, directly
attributable to Hermione, in the course of
three months.
Then Hermione committed an error of
judgment, the eternal error of the pitcher
that goes once too often to the well; she
confessed to him that she had received a
letter from the man to whom she was
honorably engaged stating that he was
coming from Adelaide, having heard rumors
regarding Patsy’s dishonorable conduct with
his fiancee.
It was not a good story to put up on
Patsy. He was not scared into making a
further fool of himself; and, being any-
thing but infatuated, the idea of the girl
having intrigued with him while betrothed
to another man filled him with disgust.
He was unable to conceal it, and Hermione
made her second mistake. Instead of falling
back on her undoubted powers of romance,
she lost her temper, told Patsy precisely
what she thought of him and threatened
him with the processes of the law, criminal
and civil.
Even then Patsy made excuses for her
in his own mind. Still believing her story
of original sin, he felt that the girl had
probably been forced into a condition of
hardness by the pitilessness of Fate. He
was still worrying when he went out to
Long Bay to see Des.
As he left the penitentiary, he found
waiting for the tram a young woman whom
he had seen there on previous visits. She
nodded to him.
“It’s a sad game this, but it’s all you
can do for them,” she said.
“It is that,” agreed Patsy.
“You’re Patsy Quirk, ain’t yer?” she con-
tinued. “Buff Cody, who trains- yer’s an
old friend o’ mine.”
She described briefly her childhood in the
’Loo when Buff was a man just on the
threshold of his greatness.
“I know all about yer brother,” she
went on. “It’s a rotten shame, isn’t it, that
a boy like that should have to go in for
five years, not because he’s bad, but just
because he’s a bit hot-tempered?”
“Des himself doesn’t think so,” replied
Patsy. “He feels that it’s thoroughly
deserved, and the strangest thing is that
the idea seems to make him more con-
tented.”
“That’s just the way with my friend I
go to see. He’s not religious like yer
brother—not him; he’s as big a lad to-day
as when he was sent up. But he takes it all
in good part. 'lt’s rough on you, old girl,’
he says, ‘but as for me, I only got what
was coming to me. I went into the game
with me eyes open, and I backed a loser.
That’s all there is to it, and I backed a
few winners before they got me.’ ”
“Your husband?” asked Patsy.
“Well, sort of,” she laughed. “We weren’t
never married, but he was a husband to
me all right. They say he’s bad and all
that—he just missed a Kathleen by an
inch.” >} „
Patsy was not fully educated. “A what,
he inquired.
“A Kathleen, an indeterminate sentence
you know, Kathleen Mavourneen; it maj
be for years and it may be for ever. The
Judge tossed up; anyhow, what he said
made it look as if he did.”
“Well, he’s what they call a good man,
the demons—meaning a bad one. “ale-
blowing was what they got him for a big
punch it would have been if they’d pulled
it off. And he’s done most other things
besides that he shouldn’t. But he’s a man.
all the same. He took me up from what
I was doing before, and no woman ever
had a real husband better than what he was
to me. It wasn’t as if I deserved what he
did for me; I was crook ever since I knew
how. But somehow we took to each other,
and he says: ‘This isn’t the life for you.
girlie.’ ‘lt’s the only one I’ve ever known.
I says. ‘Then you can try another if you
like,’ he says, and we settled down to-
gether. That was two years ago, and I
can tell you we were happy together till
they got him. Now all that worries him
is me. ‘lt’s no good,’ he says. ‘l’ve sent
you back to Crown-street again. It’s through
me, and you’re too good for that.’ But I’m
not going back to Crown-street,” she added
determinedly. “There’s no man in the
world for me but him, and I ought to
know, for I’ve had plenty of experience o)
them; but that’s all done now. I’ve got
work and I’m going to stick to it till he
comes out. Then we’ll try to settle down
in something where the johns won’t bother
us.”
“How long’s he in for?” asked Patsy.
“Five years,” she replied.
Five years! Patsy caught his breath. He
marvelled at the calm courage of this hero-
ine of the underworld, her devotion to the
man who was a professional criminal, but
the only one who had treated her as a
human being. There was no power of
convention operating to influence her; no-
thing but her own self-respect—a self-
respect which she had discovered only when
a man she could love crossed her path.
“Good luck to you,” said Patsy. “I hope
you can hold out.”
“Make your mind easy on that,” she
laughed confidently. “I wish I was as sure
of first prize in Tatt.’s. I’ll hold out all
right. I’ve no use for men now—only one.”
They had reached the town by this time.
“Who’ll I tell Buff I’ve seen?” he inquired.
“Just say Minnie Evans—that ain’t my
right name, but he’ll know.”
Chapter XX.
As he rode home to Bondi, Patsy thought
much about Minnie Evans and her resolve.
She might not be able to keep it; but, at
any rate, she would make a mighty effort.
And this girl—she was not more than
twenty-three—was a slum development, who
had sunk into the very gutter.
Then he remembered Hermione, instinct-
ively compared the two women and his
light o’ love appeared a poor thing by
comparison—unfaithful to her original lover,
mercenary and unfeeling towards him. He
recalled a hundred instances of her venality,
her selfishness. He wondered how he could
have been so blind as not to have noticed
them previously. When he reached the
camp, he drew Buff aside and told him. of
Hermione’s threats.
It was the first Buff knew of their rela-
tions. He had regarded them as mere
acquaintances. He spat disgustedly.
“Yous blokes,” he observed, “seem ter
lose yer brains soon as yer win a fight or
two. ’ Didn’t I tell yer she was a man-
eater first time I seen ’er? She’s got it
labelled all over ’er in big print. An’ you
goes an’ swallers ’er ’ard-luck tale, ’ook,
line an’ sinker. S’welp me, I dunno what
ter do with yer But wait a bit; I’ll git
busy around th’ town an’ see if I can’t git
th’ strong o’ this ’ere lady friend o’ yours,”
he added after a long think.
Buff spent next day away from the camp.
After tea he called Patsy out on the beach.
“There ain’t no fyancy at all,” he an-
nounced. “I worded some o’ th’ plain-
clothes as are mates o’ mine, an’ they give
me th’ lowdown on this 'ere ’Ermyon. Th
fyancy don’t exist. ’E’s like th’ uncle in
Fiji—somethin’ useful ter raise a few quid
on. Th’ on’y bloke in th’ case’s a feller
name o’ ’Arold Grice, a real bad egg. ’ls
people’s nice people, but ’e’s as rotten as
pre-war apples. Got a good billet in th -
Guvment—’ow ’e hangs on ter it Gawd
knows —but he ain’t got no objections ter
makin’ a bit as a serciety. bludger as a side
line ’Ere, ’ow much ’ave yer spent on
this ’ere tart in th’ last three munce?”
Patsy felt very uncomfortable and
ashamed. “Say three hundred pounds,” he
admitted.
Buff was sceptical. “Yairs, an’ then some,
I s’pose.” He sniffed. “Well, yer’ll be
pleased ter know as this ’ere ’Arold got
about ’alf of it. ’E’s bin playin’ th’ ponies
very considerable lately, an’ ’e dropped a
solid ’undred in Chook Murphy’s two-up
school one night. Other nights ’e’s bin up
at ’Ermyon’s flat when you was somewheres
else. Patsy, Patsy, yer a shrewdie I don't
think. An’, my oath, yer lucky ter git off
as light as yer did. Yer ought ter git down
Goulburn-street ter-night among th’ Chows
an’ mark a ticket. Any’ow, p’raps it’s
cheap. Yer mighter struck a smarter tart
an’ bin hit fur three times as much. Now."
Buff paused like a Judge about to sum up.
“don’t do nothin’. Don’t trouble ter see


w.
SPA
<C
IfOc.
SS
*1
It
£
mum
oßpinr
27
a
HARDY'S
S p a r k I i rv g
WINES
# th sir Special
Gold Label Still dirps
tresu It of
7Z..
/ears ofiu trie groutt/Jg
arid njakinc
/
A
sdf
JEALOUS
STUART
CRAFTSMEN
Jealous ol their past/ jealous of
their present / jealous of their
future/ they etch the name
STUART on every piece of the
crystal they fashion so lovingly /
so that it is known and admired
wherever beautiful glass is sold.
And because their skill is heredi=
tary > handed down from father
to son for many generations/ you
can still pay as little as a few
shillings for a genuine example.
N
f Di\
II&SWKH/
r,
41 > \/A i
smj i
s
O ; Wy, -v:>..;
5S
¥
R
I
■««»^
JB
&
Be sure to look for the registered name <c Stuart” on every piece you buy.
lawyers, an’ whatever yer do, don’t write
nothin’ more. Yer never promised ter marry
'er or anythin’?”
“Not on your life!” smiled Patsy. I
never cared twopence for her.”
“Then Gawd ’elp yer when yer strike one
yer do,” commented Buff. “But she’s jest
talkin’ through ’er neck. She can’t come
at yer for nothin’. Jest sit tight an’ put ’er
right out.”
Patsy agreed. Next day came a long
lachrymose letter from Hermione full of
love and devotion and repentence for the
harsh things she had said under stress of
emotion. The letter was couched in a
wealth of imagery foreign to Hermione and
to Hermione’s standard of education.
“She got ’Arold ter ’elp ’er in this,” re-
marked Buff, when Patsy showed him the
letter. “Shove it somewheres safe, but don’t
answer it.”
Hermione never wrote again. He did not
hear from her lawyers. Her fiance failed
to materialise from the West to make
trouble, and she went out of Patsy’s life,
except on occasions when she passed him
in the street and essayed the facial evolu-
tion known in theatrical circles as registering
scorn.
Chapter XXI.
“What I like about the boy is his utter
absence of swelled head,” said De Vernay.
“A lot of these young pugs get insufferable
after they’ve won a few fights. In the old
days they used to wear flash clothes and
drink and assault the police and make
themselves thoroughpaced blackguards; Now
that’s all done away with; it’s the vogue
to be the gentleman—always the gentle-
man. They give up using naughty words,
some of them affect culture, and, when you
want to talk about the ordinary things of
life, you’re met with an epigram from
Maeterlinck or a dissertation on the psy-
chology of Strindberg. I don’t know
whether this last pose isn’t worse than the
first. At times I long for the brave days
when the successful pugilist used to spend
his hours of ease brawling in the street
and punching the innocent bystanders out
of sheer joy of life.”
“I didn’t notice any affectations about
Mr. Quirk,” observed Phyllis.
“No,” agreed De Vernay, “that’s just
what I was'sajdng. He’s so natural and un-
affected that you can’t help loving the
boy. I suppose that it’s because he’s got
more brains and has had a better education
than most of them. Then his companions
are lads above the average in intelligence.”
“Mr. Cody?” smiled Phyllis, looking at
De Vernay out of the corner of her eye.
“Buff Cody’s what you Australians would
•call a scream. I wasn’t referring to him,
though, but to the boys he grew up with
in Illawarra. But don’t be too hard on
Buff Cody. He’s one of the best—rough
and tough and de profundis and all that
sort of thing, you know, but a real white
man when you get to know him—a regular
Porthos or Mulvaney in another setting, and
as loyal as you make them. Look at the
way he turned down a couple of hundred
pounds to dope Patsy. I’ve a deep affec-
tion for Buff, too, but a different sort of
affection. Patsy makes me forget—forget
prejudices and things.”
“Forget the caste distinctions of dear
old England?”
“That’s rather nasty, but true —like most
nasty remarks,” laughed De Vernay. “I
suppose I have forgotten many of the
dearest principles instilled into me in my
youth. I’ve become sadly democratised
since I came to Australia. The best people
of my country—even those who took my
part, when I became the family disgrace—
would be satisfied, if they saw me now,
that the old story of my being the black
• sheep of the family was an understatement.
I’d be classified as a black wolf or a black
hyena or something equally nauseous. You
know what I mean, mixing on terms of
social equality with pugilists and trainers
and”
“And ad. illustrators,” suggested Phyllis.
“If they saw the ad. illustrator in ques-
tion,” remarked De Vernay, rising and
bowing with mock seriousness, “all my past
misdeeds would be forgiven, the portcullis
of my family castle would be raised, the
fatted calf would be slain and the House of
Lords would adjourn to mark its delight.”
“That’s something neither Mr. Quirk nor
Mr. Cody can do—make a pretty speech
like that.”
“Thank Heaven they can’t! I’ll cut them
off my visiting list the moment, they learn.
They’re both outstanding figures in their
way—not that I’ve any objection to the
other pugs as a body. When I took on this
job I was attracted merely by the emolu-
ments of office and thought' they’d be a
most objectionable lot. As I got to know
them, I realised that they’re simply a little
cosmos of their own, like every other col-
lection of men. There were just the same
elements among the hundred odd boxers I
handled as among any other hundred men
—the genial, the dull, the insincere, the
heroic, the sentimental, the self-sacrificing
the selfish—probably in precisely the same
proportions that we’d find the qualities in
a similar collection of bishops or burglars
or greengrocers or artists or dukes.”
That s rather a revolutionary sentiment
to come from a family that landed with the
Conqueror, chided Phyllis.
“I’m afraid I have become rather revo-
lutionary of late.”
.Phyllis and De Vernay had grown to be
firm friends since the first day they met at
Stans studio Previous to their meeting,
the girl had heard of the press agent and
had been filled with bitter and unreasoning
prejudice against him.
'“I know the sort; I’ve met a few,” she
told Stan. “They think they’re conferring
an honor on Australia by coming here, and
do nothing but patronise the country and
abuse the people, all the time they’re mak-
ing their living out of us. I don’t want to
know’ him. I won’t know him.”
Then one day she burst into the studio
to find a clean-shaven, square-jawed man
with grey about the temples sitting in her
favorite chair. That he was English was
obvious to Phyllis before he said: “Mr.
Carlisle will be here in a minute.” The
speech was confirmatory. De Vernay did
not say “heah” exactly, but it was nearer
“heah” than “here.”
The moment she sat down she realised
that he was the hated De Vernay. She
laughed.
De Vernay smiled. “Excuse me,” he
said, “but I don’t happen to see the joke.”
“Of course you don’t; you’re English,”
explained Phyllis. “But not so very English,
after all, because you don’t take offence
at my rudeness.” |
“Perhaps I’d better.”
“No; you’d better not,” interrupted
Phyllis. “I’m going to be rude again. You
were just going to introduce yourself. I’m
going to guess who you are.’ You’re Mr.
De Vernay.”
“The girl guessed right the very first
time,” he hummed.
“Yes,” continued Phyllis, “and, do you
know, Stan’s been wanting me to meet you
for the past month and I’ve always refused.
I thought you w’ere quite different; I always
had the idea, that you were one of those
superior Englishmen.”
} “And you’re quite pleased to find that
I m one of the inferior ones,” smiled De
Vernay.
“Oh, you’re not English at all!” cried
Phyllis. “You must be French; your name’s
French. Your sense of humor will get you
arrested as an undesirable alien if you ever
go back to England. I always pictured
you as a man with a long yellow walrus
moustache or a clipped Chaplin one and an
eyeglass, talking about the bally colonials—
you know the sort?”
By.the time that Stan returned they were
chatting as if they had known each other
from childhood. De Vernay was a man !
who knew something about art; he was able
to criticise and to criticise intelligently.
He might be wrong—Phyllis thought that,
he frequently was—but he could advance
logical reasons for his heresies.
Inside a week they were intimates, and
De Vernay began to be puzzled by Phyllis’s
attitude towards Patsy Quirk. She 'liked
the boy didn t hesitate to express her
admiration of many of his qualities. She
resented his choice of a profession, but that
was not sufficient to account for her keep-
ing out of his way and declining to be
brought into his company. De Vernay
had studied women from the time he left
Eton. He had studied them in the stately
homes of England, in Leicester-square, in
Paris, in Vienna, in Rome, and in innumer-
able centres of lesser magnitude. His
studies had been productive of much enter-
tainment but little information.
I see you are one of the advance guard
that realises the arts must go if mankind
is to be truly civilised,” he observed one
day when she had been expressing horror
and disgust at the career of a pugilist.
“Not the arts,” she protested.
“Yes, the arts,” he continued. “One of
your wise men here has said that Art is
man’s apology for the useless—painting,
sculpture, poetry, pugilism, literature, all*
utterly useless; so many men and women
taken out of the ranks of production to
reduce the nation’s efficiency, to entertain
a handful of people. You are all merely
public entertainers—not you, personally,
for you do perform useful labor in illustrat-
ing the latest in hats and hayrakes—but
these artists like Stan. What is the differ-
ence between Stan and Patsy—one enter-
taining people by good drawing; the other
entertaining an infinitely greater number
by good punching? Then there is no affec-
tation among Patsy’s admirers; they know
good stuff when they see it. Half the people
who are enthusiastic over Stan just keep
their eye on the experts and cheer with
them. Shakspeare and Phidias and Shelley
and Wagner and the learned pig in the
circus—what is the essential difference?”
Phyllis listened, a puzzled line in her
forehead.
“When the world grows really efficient,
it will have no use for any such childish-
ness. We shall all live in efficient red
brick barracks, go through efficient physical
drill, eat efficient food, have our love affairs
arranged for us by an efficient eugenics
bureau and spend our spare time listening
to efficient lecturers on improving subjects.
The arts will have gone the way of the
witefi and the wehrwolf. If there should
remain a community so conservative as to
cling to its primitive ideals, pictures will
no longer be painted by hand. An efficient
mechanical painter will be devised and, in
the art factories, the operatives will sit at
long keyboards pressing buttons and turning
out their masterpieces in mass production.
Then, and not until, can the world boast
that it is truly civilised.”
“And your beloved House of Lords
what will become of that in the Mil-
lennium?” asked Phyllis.
“The House of Lords!” echoed De
Vernay. “Oh, that’ll be turned into a night
club or something else useful and efficient,”
he replied promptly.
(To be continued next week.)


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Local candidates annexed all six events
on the opening day at Caulfield. Dermid
and Legislator, third in the Caulfield Stakes
and Toorak Handicap respectively, were
the only visitors from Sydney to run into
places. Induna, from South Aus., was
second in the Caulfield Stakes, and Silent
Bird, brought over from Adelaide by Myles
Connell, second in the Herbert Power Han-
dicap. Although K. Cid, winner of the
Toorak Handicap, is also owned in S.A.,
he all along lias been in the Caulfield stable
of H. W. Gabell. Melbourne trainers were
agreeably surprised at the sweeping nature
<d’ their victories. Of course, the Caulfield
Cup may go to one of the Sydney lot, but
much stake-money has already been appro-
priated by the home division.
Middle Watch triumphed in the Caulfield
Stakes, and on this ran and his fine three-
year-old form, J. S. Feehan’s black prad
possesses a wonderful chance in the Mel-
bourne Cup, Bst. 111 b. being by no means
a crushing burden for a four-year-old of his
calibre. Windbag and Nightmarch each
scored at. that age with 9st. 21b., and Phar
Lap with 9st. 121 b. The manner in which
Middle Watch was handled by Cook in the
last Sydney Cup did not satisfy his trainer,
Fisher, who invited an official inquiry into
t lie nature of the instructions which he had
imparted to the jockey. Fisher has booked
Jimmy Muuro for Middle Watch’s Melbourne
engagements, and Munro rode the son of
The Night Patrol to perfection on Saturday,
lie gave Middle Watch ample time to settle
down, and then w. nt round the leaders, to
win decisively without being pushed out.
Ammon Ra, who had not sported silk
.since he failed in the Quality Handicap at
Moonee -Valley on September 24, was be-
lieved to, be restored to his best condition,
and punters sent him out a slightly better
favorite than Middle Watch. ITe had bled a
bit. at “the Valley,” and again in a gallop
before Caulfield. No blood came from his
nostrils after the Stakes, and the fact that
he compounded in the straight after having
Bert: \uy <3,000 ookes in the
Bulletin”? "
//
GIERT*. VVEU-,yOU PUV yOUR PART
ADMIRABLY THIS WEEK.’
Bert *. ? so <=,lad !"
0
(pEQX ; YCMJ KNOW "THEy CAU-
this the Comic Strip.'*
led suggests that he is unlikely to repeat his
deeds of last spring and autumn. Induna’s
form in running second was excellent, and,
with 151 b. off his back (he comes down to
Bst. 31b.), he must take a power of beating in
the Caulfield Cup. Whether he can concede
101 b. to a good three-year-old like Peter Pan,
or is better at the weights than Johnnie
Jason (9st.), remains to be seen. Frank
McGrath has Denis Boy (9st. lib.) and Sat-
moth (Bst. 61b.) to depend on as well as
Peter Pan; but the colt appears to be his
best bet.
Dick O’Donnell, who has seen the horse
work at Mentone, swears by Induna as a
Caulfield Cup proposition. In fact, O’Don-
nell was convinced that Induna would win
the Caulfield Stakes, and his judgment was
not far astray. Jack Donohoo was enam-
ored of Dermid’s prospects in the race cap-
tured by Middle Watch. He declai*ed that
the Tippler gelding had improved out of all
knowledge since his arrival in Melbourne.
Faulty judgment was shown by Cook in
rushing his mount to the front in the first
furlong; Dermid did fairly well to hang on
and finish third, so that he did not lose
many friends for the Cup, in which he has
Bst. 21b.
Holt’s chance of success with High Brae
has dwindled exceedingly of late, but Top
Hole restored himself to favor by running
Liberal to half a head in the Caulfield
Guineas. However, it is problematical
whether the Heroic colt will see out a mile
and a half. His downfall in the V.R.C.
October Stakes is a mystery to his party.
The only tangible explanation is that the
use of a new type of bit disconcerted Top
Hole. Liberal, who was picked by this
Page, landed the Guineas in grand style, and
he is bound to be a thorn in the flesh of
Derby rivals. Manfred’s son Chetowaik was
a fair third; but both Kuvera and Vauntry
are discredited by their Guineas showing.
The owner of Liberal has no present inten-
tion of starting him in the Melbourne Cu.p,
but might alter his plans in the _ event of
brill/ant success in the Derby. Liberal be-
haved badly at the barrier on Saturday, and
was in danger of being left at the post.
He displayed fine grit by the way he forced
a passage between two horses half a furlong
from home and relentlessly swooped down
on Top Hole.
So far no juvenile of outstanding calibre
has come to light in Melbourne. None of
the winners at the V.R.C. October meeting
was capable of getting a place in the Debu-
tant Stakes. This went to a 25-to-l chance,
Sternula. a Drake colt that credited “S. A.
Rawdon” with the Fulham Park Plate in
Adelaide. Heroic Lass, trained by James
Scobie for C. B. Kellow, was second. She is
a very shapely chestnut, and will do better
later on. Cassius, the third horse, a colt by
Moabite, is raced by C. T. Godby on lease
from Holt, and was backed.
K. Cid (14 to 1) was lucky to land the
Toorak Handicap, as Legislator (favorite)
was at the tail of the field five furlongs from
home, and had to go out wide at the straight
entrance; despite that he finished third,
The Dawn Patrol separating them. K. Cid is
a three-year-old colt by Dunnottar —Boom-
tree, and has 6st. 131 b. in the Caulfield Cup.
The Caulfield Cup field promises to be the
best for many years. In spite of the claims
of Peter Pan and Induna The Bulletin has
a feeling that Johnnie Jason will win. In
an ordinary year he would be considered well
handicapped, and he has the knack of run-
ning a rattling good race each spring and
autumn. Last spring it was the Victoria
Derby; last autumn, the Sydney Cup (with
Sst. 41b.) ; this spring it may be the Caul-
field Cup. It is against Peter Pan that “he
l’an like a baby at times” in the A.J.C.
Derby. That was Pike’s expression, and he
will have no Pike on his back this time.
Fancies: —
Caulfield Cup: Johnnie Jason, 1; Induna,
2 ; Peter Pan, 3.
Windsor Handicap: Legislator; next,
Casque d’Or.
Burwood Handicap; Bronze Hawk; next.
Jimmie Boy.
* $ * *
The A.J.C. furnished sport of high quality
at Randwick, and was rewarded with good
attendances and satisfactory tote receipts,
considering the times. Epsom and Metrop.
form was much above the average; Peter
Pan impressed as being superior to such
Derby winners of the past as Prince
Humphrey, Cupidon, Salitros, Cider, Cisco
and Tanami and may prove himself fit to
be compared with Windbag, Heroic and
Manfred; and Chatham justified the glowing
opinions formed of him as a youngstex 1 .
Second in his solitary start as a two-year-
old, he fell sick last spring and was unable
to give of his best at three years, though he
won three races and ran second in the Vic-
toria Derby to Johnnie Jason. In four
races-this season he has not been beaten.
In the Craven Plate on Wednesday Chat-
ham made nearly all his own running, and
it was a treat to see him come away at the
entrance to the straight from Gaine Car-
rington, Denis Boy, Veilmond, Nightmare!),
and Autopay. With the race won he loafed
a bit in Munro’s hands (Pike did not have
a mount after Monday, havjng been sus-
pended for two months for having come
across the field on Burracootboo, winner of
the Centennial Park Handicap), and Veil-
mond got to within three-quarters of a length
of him, but it was only on sufferance. Wind-
bag’s stylish son has been taken out of the
Caulfield Cup, but is to go to Melbourne for
the Cantala Stakes and w.f.a. races. He
will be a very interesting opponent for Peter
Pan and Middle Watch if they meet.
Nightmarch cut up badly in all his races;
and so did Chide. They may both be con-
sidered lights of other days. Veilmond was
naturally a warm favorite for the Randwick
Plate on Saturday, but he suffered defeat
by three lengths, his conqueror being the
Queensland horse Lough Neagh (8 to 1).
Ridden by Cook, Lough Neagh—a four-year-
old chestnut gelding by Bachelor’s Persse
out of Tcrcntia —was third in the Metrop.
to Denis Boy and Rogilla. Tanwan was
brought down from Brisbane to pilot him in
the Randwick Plate, and did his job skilfully.
Webster was on Veilmond, and apparently
the brown will only do his best for Pike;
nevertheless, Lough Neagh put up a capital
performance, and—facer though the result
was to most punters—the crowd was not
slow in recognising it. Lough Neagh has
7st. 131 b. in the Melbourne Cup. A horse
that can win the Randwick Plate is favor-
ably treated in the Cup with less than Bst.,
even though the two miles took 3min. 32 f sec.
Peter Jackson was a poor third in the
Randwick Plate, and is clearly overrated.
The same is true of Gaine Carrington and
Silver Ring. In the Clibborn Stakes, as in
the Craven Plate (he was third in that
race), Gaine Carrington veered to the outer
fence, as if he didn’t like his contract or
had had enough. Placed first in the Clib-
born Stakes by the judge, he was placed
second by the stewards, the race being very
properly awarded to Booth’s Treclare —
Trimacre gelding, Tingalba. And to think
that, two or three weeks ago, Gaine Car-
rington was favorite, not only for the
A.J.C. Derby, but for the Melbourne Cup!
He is not in the same class as Peter Pan ;
nor is Silver Ring (unplaced in the Clib-
born Stakes, though he had an advantage
in weight) much good. Pantheon’s other
son Milantheon will probably turn out
better than either.
Maoriland had worthier representatives in
Havering (Sydney Handicap) and Historic
(third in the Sydney Handicap, and first in
the Waverley Handicap with 9st. 91b.). And
the Maoriland-bred Movie Star landed a
tidy stake for A. D. Webster in the
Final Handicap. He is in rare form just
now, and is likely to win again soon. Lim-
arch (Limond —Queen March), another from
beyond the Tasman, proved the fastest of
a nice lot of two-year-olds in the Breeders’
Plate. It may be doubted, however, whether
he is speedier than Booth’s Leila Vale, who
made hacks of her field in the Gimcrack
Stakes. By Heroic —Maltgilla, Leila Vale
is a half-sister to Tregilla and Burwood,
and is a chestnut, like them.
Though rain held off, the track lacked
fire on all four days, and no time records
were made. Chatham’s two gallops were the
smartest —lmin. 37sec. in the Epsom and
2min. sisec. in the Craven Plate. Not a
few horses shaped as if they hadn’t done
enough work, and with Pike, the two Munros
and Cook away, there was some very bad
riding on Saturday. Pentheus may be ex-
pected to show improved form. Also, people
who noticed Gay Ballerina’s finish in the
Chester Handicap, in which she was third
to Gloriole and N.E.F., will be on her next
time.
For City Tatt.’s meeting at Randwick: —
Flying Handicap: Gay Ballerina; next,
Burracootboo.
Novice Handicap: Forestry; next, Barren
Corn.
City Tatt.’s Handicap: Pentheus; next,
Agineourt or Circus Star.
Club Welter: Birthday Present; next,
Braeburn.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Rounds were dispensed with when Lurieh
and Lundyn put on their latest turn at
Leichhardt. After 35 minutes’ grappling, a
figure-four toehold made Lurieh surrender
the first fall. Lurieh evened the score with
a body-scissors in another 16 minutes, and
got the verdict on points.
=!= * *
Gildo (Bst. 121 b.) lias boxed as often at
Leichhardt as Lurieh has wrestled there. He
and Ern Evans (Sst. 81b.) fought for the
third time on Friday night, and the Filipino
landed solidly and often, but Evans blocked
more blows than he received, and punched
still more powerfully. Evans got it, but
a draw would have been a better decision.
Ins and Outs
The end of the first round of grade cricket
in Sydney saw Bradman and McCabe each
with a century to his credit in the first
two matches. The outstanding performance
on Saturday was the bowling of O’Reilly
and Bill, of North Sydney, against Bal-
main. On a soaked wicket, drying fast
under wind and sun, O’Reilly took 11 for
68, and Hill, a lefthander, S’ for 42. _ Waver-
ley and Cumberland now head the list, each
with 12 points for an outright win.
>S * * . *
The Marylebone tourists opened their
season with the usual picnic match at
Colombo. The locals closed with 125 for
3, Brindley, an ex-Bucks amateur, batting
finely for 82 n.o. The wicket was very soft
and gave the bowlers no help, but Mitchell
was the most impressive performer. _ The
tourists replied with 186 for 7 wickets,
Pataudi, who had just joined up from India,
making 62 by careful batting.
' * * *
“Brush”; “Aigburth” (B. 21/9/’32) was
pretty near the truth when he guessed that
a .“mystery portrait” of Murdoch which was
starred in the Sydney press, was nothing
more mysterious than the original or a copy
of one of the famous “Vanity Fair” car-
toons which were the weekly delight of Eng-
land for many years. Someone has written
to the journal concerned po : ntim>- out that
the late William Macleod, of The Bulletin,
years ago did a number of similar carica-
ture portraits for a country friend. One,
of demon-bowler Spofforth the artist painted
from a “Vanity Fair 1 ” cartoon. The Murdoch
picture undoubtedly has a similar history.
« x * *
“Shrewsbury”: The size of the English
cricket team —Maurice Tate’s probable with-
drawal has reduced it slightly—again brings
up the question as to whether five or six
extras are necessary to the support of the
regular eleven. In practice, the same old
team always appears in the important games,
while the balance kick their heels in the
pavilion, with an occasional flutter in the
minor matches. Gregory’s first Australian
team started off with 12 men. _ Early in the
tour the wily “W.G.” prevailed on Mid-
winter, himself a Gloucestershire man, to
desert his mates. Midwinter actually played
for England against Australia. Happenings
of that sort are happily impossible to-day.
An occasional substitute helped the team in
some of its 41 matches, while manager Con-
way doffed his top-hat to take part in five.
(Continued on next pope.)
Racquet and Bawl
“Hotham”: Norman Brookes’s idea of a
Pacific tennis zone has been received with
mixed feelings by the various countries
allotted to it. The original idea, which, by
the way, has been approved by the Davis
Cup committee, was that the components of
the new zone should consist of Japan, China.
India, Siam, Java, the Philippines, South
Africa, Australia and Maoriland. No one
is surprised to hear that Maoriland, which has
always suffered from the Wilding complex,
and in all matters is confident it can face
the British Empire on its own, should refuse
to come in. South Africa’s abstention is
also easy to understand, for that country’s
propinquity to Europe not only gives its
team a chance to figure in the European
Davis Cup matches, but in the champion-
ships at Wimbledon as well. If the Spring-
boks had to meet the Australians or the
Japanese in the Pacific zone their hope of
seeing Europe would be poor. Naturally they
prefer Europe with the chance of being
drawn against such joke teams as Portugal.
Jjt ❖ ❖ ❖
“Let”: The coming American tennis team
will be the first to hit Australian shores
since 1920. On that occasion, Bill Tilden.
with M. W. Johnson, W. M. Washburn and
Sam Hardy, who acted as a non-playing cap-
tain, took the Davis Cup from Australasia
in Auckland, winning all five matches, and
later played in Sydney and Melbourne.
The Australasian representatives in singles
and doubles were N. E. Brookes and Gerald
Patterson. Of the four visitors. Vines,
Allison, Van Ryn and Gledhill, only, the
last is not already famous in the tennis
world. He is a fine singles and doubles
player and last year won the American
intercollegiate championship.
sji *»* ’•*
“Callan Park”: The fascination which
tennis has for some people is inexplicable
to many others. An outstanding instance is
that of one Ernest Griswold, described as
a student of Pasadena University in Cali-
fornia. Desiring to see the Davis Cup final,
he jumped the rattler to New York and
there took a job as steward on a steamer
which landed him at Marseilles. On his way
to Paris he was robbed of his luggage, money
and ticket in the train, and thrown out by
the railway folk at Lyons. However, h*
achieved the notable feat of biting the ear
of the American Consul at Lyons for 200
francs, which took him to Paris. There he
was adopted by the • American colony and
visitors and all was well.
(Continued on next fage.)
The two big Victorian road races for push-
bikers, the Warrnambool-Melbourne for*
pros, and the Colac-Melbourne for ama-
teurs, were decided on Saturday. The
first w T as won by R. J. Reynolds, of
Essendon, off the 39min. mark in film.
39min. 33sec. R. W. Lamb took the fastest
time from scratch, 6hr. 21min. 18sec. for
the 165 miles. Ossie Nicholson, also on
scratch, was only a second behind, and has
a protest for interference. The
amateur race of 100 miles was won off
35min. by W. Carey, of Preston. Fastest
time was made by E. Milliken, of Coburg,
whose 3hr. 35min. 15sec. is a world’s record
for an amateur, as is Lamb’s for a pro.
* * * *
Westralia’s League football premiership
was won on Saturday by West Perth, which
defeated East Perth by 117 points to 74.
The game was bitterly contested and was
stopped several times to allow the players
to cool off. E. Tyson, of West Perth, kicked
8 goals and equalled the record for a West-
ralian season with 96. This is West’s first
win for 27 years.
# # * *
The annual athletic championships of the
N.S.W. Great Public Schools on Sydney
Cricket Ground produced some good per
formauces, in spite of a dead track. In the
senior events two new records went up,
D. R. Sheteliffe, of Shore, topping sft. lllin.
in the high jump and R. Clark, of Sydney
High, putting the 161 b. shot 43ft. 91in. The
broad jump figures of 21ft. llin. were
equalled by T. J. West, of Shore. The latter
school walked off with the championship,
scoring 81 points to 64 by Sydney Grammar
and 54 by King’s. King’s were champions
last year.
“Woodshaver” : Sydney bowlers aren’t such
a flinty-hearted lot. One of their number,
George Thorne, for years secretary of Vic-
toria Park club, was hit with the double-
barrel of illness and financial loss. Ilis
friends decided to raffle the sick man’s bowls
among metropolitan club members. So good
was the response that £7O came to hand.
There were no expenses, of course.


•ip
WMk""""
m
r
WWvXv
WSS
#/ I
r*<*>«**
.; '
SB
•ft
arc#
I r/
■XvX"
& !
sd
“Even if this weren’t a Vauxhall—if
it weren’t the product of a famous
English factory—honestly now, you’ve
been all over this car —you’ve driven
it—wouldn’t you be buying it purely
on its performance, ease of handling, price and
modern beauty?”
“Yes, I certainly would! I expected a lot from
a Vauxhall, but when I drove this car I got
that kind of top-gear performance I’ve always
wanted from an English car! I got smooth
power that made driving a real pleasure . . .
and a gear change with that Synchro Mesh—
well, a baby could do it!”
This 1932 English Vauxhall is fully powered
with a 26 h.p. (R.A.C. Rating) engine. It has
six cylinders—no more, no less. With more
you sacrifice economy, with less you sacrifice
smoothness. Coachwork by Holden. General
Motors-Holden’s Ltd.
LOCAL
Consult your :
AUTHORISED VAUXHALL
DEALER
Ins and Outs
“Fitzroy”: Over in Adelaide they have
been nursing a horrible skeleton in their
bosoms —excuse me if X seem to mix the
metaphors, but agitation may he excused. In
short, Glarrie Grimmett has a crook
leg. Somehow or other lie slipped under the
wheel of his motor-car when it was moving,
and the wheel went over one foot. The
matter was kept very dark, but the truth
leaked out when Glarrie could not play m
the opening round of club cricket.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Nash, the young Tasmanian
fast bowler, has crossed the Bass Creek
and will this year play for South Melbourne.
This should give the Apple Islander an open
go for Test selection. He made a sensation
in the last Test against the South Africans
in Melbourne by taking 5 wickets for 22.
That he may reproduce this form this year
is the earnest prayer of every good Aus-
tralian.
* * *
“Aigburth”: Two more candidates for
English cricket elevens of the future have
bobbed up in England. They are named
Indravadrasinhji and Samarsinhji, and both
are nephews of “Ranji,” with two more still
co come. The pair have entered at Cam-
bridge. Ranji counts Indra. etc., as better
than himself at his age, and Austra-
lian Erank Tarrant, who has been coaching
the brood in India, thinks even more of
him than uncle does.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The Sydney tennis experts
are still arguing as to whether Vivian
McGrath should abandon his unorthodox
two-fisted backhand stroke, which he has
exploited to such advantage, in favor of
the regulation backhand. The stroke, good
or bad, is undoubtedly the youngster’s great-
est asset. But more than one of those non-
plussed by it at first acquaintance have soon
found a means of countering it —Satoh and
Moon are two instances. Still, the abandon-
ment of the stroke now the boy’s style is
formed would be disastrous to his game.
He should settle down to improve some other
aspects of his play, while sticking to hia
pet shot.
* * » *
“Kid Stakes”: Some of the tennis travel-
lers returned from Wimbledon and Paris
have been giving the press enthusiastic inter-
views about Betty Nuthall. One referred to
her as “tall and sinuous with a merry, melt-
ing eye,” and another quotes an evening news-
paper reference to the lady as “goluptious,”
which is just what one would expect from
an evening newspaper. A recent photo. I
have of the lady does not measure up to the
above. She is certainly a pleasant, fair Eng-
lish type, but “sinuous” —no.
❖ * :\i
“Rev. Knucklebone” : Frank Parker, whom
the Americans have dug up as a counter
to our own McGrath (B. 14/9/’32), seems
to be a wonder. In addition to the Ameri-
can junior championship, the 16-year-old
youngster finished up the season by winning
the Western and Canadian championships.
In the latter he beat Lott, 3 sets to 1.
It was no fluke on the face of it, for in
an earlier meeting with Lott Parker beat
him as easily.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”: Though much was ex-
pected of the 18-year-old Victorian junior
champion, Alex. Rae, in the final of the
Cabbage Garden amateur championship, lie
found the redoubtable Mick Ryan, Austra-
lian open champion, too much for him, the
elder player winning by 7 up and 6 to play.
Ryan captured this title in 1930, being sup-
planted last year by H. L. Williams. In
Sydney, R. 11. and Mrs. Bettington won the
N.S.W. mixed foursomes for the third year in
succession with a card of 156 for the 36 holes.
❖ ❖ sjs
“Excuse Me”: Some of our newspapers
are getting very prunes-and-prismy nowa-
days—perhaps it is the infiltration of Ameri-
can ideals through the medium of the films.
When that great N.S.W. golfer Mrs. Gate-
house wiped the floor with the Victorian
associates in the State golf championship
for women last week, one paper mentioned
that the lady had been golfing for 26 years,
having learned to play with the “soft” ball.
The journal evidently hesitated to give the
thing its proper name, which is “gutty.”
It recalls the stories of the old New Eng-
land days in Yankeedom, when to refer to
the “leg” of a chair or table instead of
using the word “limb” was to send a whole
roomful of perfect ladies into a dead faint,
and to risk a broken neck from being thrown
downstairs by their indignant menfolk.
“The Sassenach”: That lament of “The
McHaggis” about the iniquitous custom of
requiring every golfer who holes in one
stroke from the tee to shout for all hands in
the clubhouse is justified. So much so that
more than one well-known club has offset the
penalty by providing a cash prize for the
fluker to help him with his penalty. Royal
Ashdown in England is one. Years ago a
visitor endowed th’ e “island hole” with £5,
the interest to go to the golfer making it in
one at the Easter, Whitsuntide or autumn
meetings. It has never been done and there
is a nice cheque waiting for the first lad to
score. In America, at the Druids’ Hill club,
the eighth hole is similarly endowed, and so
far there has been no record of anyone
collecting.
❖ * ❖ *
‘‘Tenakoe”: The 1933 golf battle for the
Ivirk-Wmdeyer Cup is t 0 be held in Maori-
and at Easter, on the Auckland club’s
course. M.L. won the Cup in 1927, the
nrst time it was played for, Sydney being
the venue. Then N.S.W. went to M.L. and
r^e^ d following year and hung on
at Melbourne m 1929. The All Blacks rc-
gamed it. at Christchurch the following year,
but, coming to Sydney last season, went back
home leaving the pot behind them.
* * * *
. ' ,4 long-delayed precedent was
established in Melbourne the other day, when
a . c ”. ai ’Sc °f 2s. was made to the spectators
ot the Victorian amateur golf final. The
money will go to a fund for pushing
the game m the Cabbage Garden. It is
, I‘loPed 1 ‘ 10 P e d that the practice will become
a eneral, as it is m Britain and America.
Most of the championship courses here are
enclosed and the collection of charges should
zixt* so,f r rueys
iami”: One of the latest golfing lnna-
« if&ssjrss
see that fii s fingers fit in the prints correctly,
and tbe m y ste ry of the game is over for
him _ at least that’s what the feUoWB who
.. . i b tpll
* cIuDS 1 you ' * *
“The MclTasnris” • The St r„i„«
on th(J aU . important question J p b ar
bogey> The j udgme nt was characteristic of
tlie venerable body, for it consisted in re-
fraining from making any recommendation
at all. As a result, clubs may adopt the par
or bogey systems at their own sweet wills,
which just about brings everything back
again to where it was. In Australia, where
golf is becoming rapidly Americanised, there
is nowad ays a mania for the adoption of
t he par sys tem. St. Andra’s canny attitude
may cause some 0 f the par Edicts to mod-
erate their transports.
pj p i
.V- 5 ;,, e TT , ~
. , Differential : Howard Hobbs, an able
Adelaide engineer, went to England some
, time ago to P ush bis idea of a gear-
less d r i ve The invention has been severely
tested for some months, at the Coventry
works of a leading English car-making firm,
Captain J. S. Irving, the famous designer
0 f racing cars, supervising the tests. His
report is highly favorable. Manufacture
and assembly present no difficulties, and the
expense of testing and adjusting standard
gea r types is saved. Construction is simple
though complicated to explain, there being
]ess than quarter of the parts contained in
the standard clutch gearbox. It is operated
gimply by opening the throttle to the extent
a p par ently called for by conditions. The
car does all the rest itself. The principle
can be applied to any motor-driven vehicle
from baby cars to war tanks.
* * * *
“Throttle”: If all goes well that Queens-
land Grand Prix event for motor-cycles,
which is to be held in January (B.
5/10/’32), will be an annual affair. The,
ignoring of Queensland’s claim to stage
the annual Tourist Trophy race, though
Tasmania’s demand for it has been acceded
to, has stung the Bananalanders to retalia-
tion, and in future they will have a show
of their own, like the McNabs on the his-
torical occasion when they refused Noah’s
invitation to enter the Ark. Southern riders
are to be invited to the inaugural Prix, but
as most of them are likely to be tuning up
for the big T.T. event on Phillip Island
some three weeks later, it is hardly likely
that many of them will face the Queensland
starter. The race will be held on the
Kingston circuit and will cover .100 miles.
•I s •!• -i* *l*
“Sprocket”: The Sydney night cycle-racing
season, which opens early next month, will
see men from overseas competing with our
own pedallers. One is Bob Spears, the first
rider from this side to win a world’s sprint
championship. Spears has been racing against
the cream of American and European pro-
fessionals for some years and has been in
the first rank always. Carlo Fantini, another
of the newcomers, is an Italian rider
of considerable versatility; his successes
include sprints, middle-distance track races
and long races on the roads. It is a long
time since Sydney has seen an Italian track
rider, though men from various other
European countries have figured in Aus-
tralia with success. M. Porta, here with
“Plugger” Bill Martin in the 1890’s, and
Carlo Boldi, who was seen in the cycling
boom at Sydney Cricket Ground some 30
years ago, were the most prominent
spaghetti manipulators remembered here.
Miscellaneous
“Outboard”: Motor-boat clubs are spring-
ing up in and -about Sydney. Some are very
magnificent, and their members aspire to
nothing so much as to be mistaken for.naval
officers, or at least for the purser of a P.
and O. boat. Something new on the
harbor this season will be the motor skiff,
capable of running from 25 to 35 m.p.h.
They are said to "be safer than the higb-
powered outboard motor-boats, but have all
their flexibility and are much cheaper.
* * * *
“Bias”: I agree that there should be some
move to correlate the records of the game of
bowls since it was introduced to N.S.W.
(B. 21/9/’32). Just at present there is a
raging controversy as to whether there was
a bowling green in front of the historic Wool-
pack Hotel at Parramatta. Someone has
got hold of a French book, published in
1827. The writer, recounting his visit to
N.S.W., specially mentions the “boulingrin”
—let us hope his memory was better than
his spelling—in front of the Parramatta pub.
The opposition is tearing into past records
to show that, though there was a lawn in
front of the Woolpack, it was never used
for bowls. Certainly, beyond the French
diary, evidence of the 1827 green is hard to
come by. In 1867 Nat Payten laid down a
green behind the Woolpack, and that is
claimed to have been the first seen in Parra-
matta.
* * * *
“Melcombe Bingham”: In a bowls discus-
sion in one of the Sydney dailies the other
day a writer made the startling statement
that there were few bowling greens in Great
Britain in 1827. One of the matches played
by the last Australian bowling side to visit
England was on the green at Winchester,
which has been bowled on for 800 uninter-
rupted years. The great country houses —■
in the South of England in particular—had
each its own bowling green, many as ancient
as that at Winchester. Every inn of stand-
ing in England in days far antedating the
Elizabethan period had its green. Shaks-
peare is full of references to the game. So are
the statute books, which contain many enact-
ments levelled at bowls as a pastime of
drunken and dissolute wastrels who threw
away at bowls time and money that should
have been expended in the practice of
archery.


The Australian Art Exhibition
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
Bulletin Buildings,
252 George Street, Sydney.
A Special Exhibition of
NORMAN LINDSAY’S
RECENT WORKS
will be officially opened by Mr. S. Ure
Smith President of the Society of
Artists —on Wednesday, the 19th inst.,
at 3 p.m.
Wanted.
Writers —Composers—Poets. All types of
MSS. given consideration. Lyrics set to
music. Attractive publication terms. Write
for particulars.—S. M. REYNOLDS, Aus-
tralian Publishing Service. Agent for the
House of Stockwell, London. Address: P.O.
Box 2, Paterson, N.S.W.
Amusements.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
3 MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN SEASON.
KING’S THEATRE: AUTUMN CROCUS.
DURING the past 40 years the “visible life
of Broken Hill” (estimated on the known
ore reserves) has gradually increased from five
years to twenty years. On this scale, in an-
other 40 years the “visible life of Broken Hill”
will be 80 years after that. The longer this
great field is worked the more ore reserves
are exposed; and thus the “estimated life”
grows more and more.
“THE BARRIER MINER”
that famous Broken Hill daily newspaper, will
be 100 years old long before the lode is
worked out.
Here’s the Way to
Revitalise Your
Body
No matter how regular your daily
habits, through faulty action of the
bowels particles of food waste become
encrusted in the walls of the intestine.
This waste matter accumulates and
breeds germ-producing poisons, which
enter the bloodstream, thus undermin-
ing your vitality—menacing your health'
—taking power from those life-giving
organs of Nature. Most internal sick-
ness is now traced to dreaded self-
poisoning (autoxima) , the result of hid-
den constipation, from which nine out
of ten unconsciously suffer. It is this
imperfect elimination of waste matter
which is the direct cause of so much pre-
sent-day sickness—which makes so many
people “old” years before their time.
Be internally clean. Regain the old
energy of youth. Build up strong,
robust health and fitness from the in-
side. Dislodge this crust from the in-
testine and cleanse the blood stream.
Free the system from this sickening,
poisonous waste. Drink COLOSEPTIC
—the prompt way to health, vigor—to
a new life —new vitality—new energy.
Gently and smoothly COLOSEPTIC
forces out all the poisons and impur-
ities through the bowels, kidneys, pores
of the skin, and respiratory organs—
Nature’s four great channels for the
disposal of waste matter from the body.
Do you suffer from constipation,
headaches, weakness, indigestion, gas
in the stomach and bowels, catarrh,
backache, rheumatism, neuritis, eczema,
pimples, etc.? Then take the first step
towards health restoration by means of
the method directed to outroot self-
poisoning. Drink COLOSEPTIC every
morning and personally prove how
quickly it surmounts your particular
health difficulty—renews your youthful
energies gives you power to resist
sickness and disease. You can get
COLOSEPTIC in regular full-size jars
from all chemists. Send 1/- stamps
or postal note to COLOSEPTIC CO
LTD., Dept. H 4, 24 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, for a Special Demonstration
Jar of COLOSEPTIC, and the inter-
esting booklet “Autoxima.”
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
The Friday shoppers simply swarmed up
to the Government House Fair, lugging suit-
cases and convoying their small charges. The
housewife had to get fruit and greens and
eggs and such for the week-end, and the
chance of a prowl around the vice-regal
lawns was not to be missed. It wasn’t all
gilded youth that filled the reception rooms
to see the art show and the theatricals. On
the corner seats and the few easy chairs
there was space for, comfortable middle-age
from the outer suburbs spread itself; and
on the chairs in the sun on the wide veran-
dah, the sixties-onwards ensconced them-
selves, not a flower in the beds escaping
their gaze, nor a jet of the fountain. The
wide stone rim of the fountain proved a
happy squatting place for small brother and
sister; but the goldfish refused to wave a fin
at the strangers, goldfish being born snobs.
The glass in the hall door was printed with
nose marks, for a favorite pastime of the
paying guests was to peer long and fixedly
through the panels. Only the gardens and
the reception rooms were open territory.
On Thursday the fair, which will mean a
liar vest of between £5500 and £OOOO
for the Bush Nursing Association, the
vice-reine’s pet charity, was opened by
his Ex., and from then onwards to Fri-
day night the crowds coming and going
were like a non-stop procession. One of
Tim most dashing arrivals was the old coach
which the drove through the
gates in great style. Thereafter this group,
the girls a pretty posy of Dolly Vardens, got
busy, selling old books, prints and silver in
the Old Curiosity Shop. Motor-cars, hun-
dreds of them, from taxis and crumpled-up
little two-seaters to handsome glittering
affairs nearly as big as Anthony Horderns’,
rushed up to the Domain gates, let out their
passengers, snorted, turned on their heels and
if chauffeur-driven, galloped home again; if
self-driven, they mooched about for anchorage
(“and a shilling parking fee, please”).
Traffic policemen, their arm movements not
unlike those of a Greek chorus, kept all
things working together for good.
Along Australia-street you could buy cold
cream or lavender or tooth-paste, or have
your weight guessed by a gentleman who
then verified his statement bv putting you
on a scale, or you could send postcards or
packets to your friends through the special
post office.
A Lavender giantess stood on the lawn,
her wide ruffled skirts really tiers of per-
fumery. There were surprise packets (the
wives "of the Ministerial party ran this),
and fish ponds, and tea tents, and soft drinks.
But the produce stall of the C.W.A. was the
one that evoked hosannas from the house-
wife. Here were lamb and ham and cream
and vegetables and fruits at their best.
Over all was the cry of the loud-speaker.
From somewhere in the tree-tops you were
told if you wanted to see Mrs. Godhard
you’d find her in the office. Then came a
prolonged hunt for “Giff.” If Commander
Gifford was in the grounds, would he report
within? A silver fox cried in the night for
its owner, a baby had become detached from
its mother, a wristlet-watch and its lady
had parted company. In short, as usual,
woman seemed capable of losing everything
but her skin. Bertie Kelly arranged chamber
music, Judge Gordon’s lady and Mrs. Colin
Stephen were up to their eyes' in theatricals,
and Miss Crowdy, cool and unruffled in crisp
greys, shepherded groups of baby players
through their performance. One of the pret-
tiest plays was Ruth Bedford’s “Hide the
Thimble.” Laurence Godfrey Smith was
responsible for some good indoor music.
There were bands at every turn.
The weather was perfect—nobody more
pleased about that than Patrick Bellew, who,
debonair in pale-grey tweeds and a pink
rose in his lapel, spruiked at a chocolate-
wheel, and raked in £7 10s. in threepences.
Rubery Bennett and Douglas Pratt kept the
fort in the Art Department. Girls in swell-
ing white organdie frocks and large white
organdie hats navigated the grounds like gay
pleasure craft. Spanish buccaneers were
crude workers alongside them in the matter
of cleaning out their victims. Girls in
lavender and girls in pink organdie showed
just as great zeal and aptitude in vacuuming
out pockets and purses. A breeze blew, the
flowers were gay, the grass was green, and
the merry-go-round gees most dashing on
both days. The group of sellers from the
Women’s Pioneer Club had fascinating
willow-pattern frocks, finished with a white
muslin fichu, and on their arms they wore
long white mesh mittens. There were girls
in sports flannel trousers and shirts, girls
in flowered muslins and poke bonnets, and
at least one witch in a pointed hat complete
with broomstick.
One of the most disheartening of spring
Randwicks as far as the books and clothes
were concerned has been tucked away. Satur-
day staged a fine thunderstorm, with hail
and lightning in the morning, just when
woman would be deciding on her dress.
Still she was pretty game, and lots of fine-
weather clothes took the air of what turned
out a radiant though blusterous afternoon.
Glad-rag impressions taken away are that
white hats, shoes, gloves and handbags will
be carried by all on the days when we are
not diagonally striped.
Hair and the arrangement thereof has
played quite a big part on the stands. Small
hats were almost an enforcement, though one
happy girl who viewed the world through the
eyes of youth wore an outsize in pale-green
organdie. And, such is the power of faith,
half-way through the wet Wednesday after-
noon it was still unruined.
Mayoress Walder picked a winning double
when she decided that the two charities to
benefit by her Race Ball should be the
Ivindergarten Union and the Day Nursery.
Basement, ballroom and the hostess’s own
apartments. were all needed to cope with
the crowd that bustled along to the Town
Hall. Over the dancers’ heads the gold and
green of early spring were laced delicately;
in loosely-strung garlands they drooped from
the daffodil centre-lights to the balconies.
They did the Lud Mayor, who donated them,
credit; and so did his lady, in silver lame, a
lei of silver and cherry flowers about her
shoulders. Her reception-rooms carried a
record number of bridge tables, happily occu-
pied, and the basement, gay with bunting,
was ready at the right moment to produce
tucker for all. The tali' figure of the Mac-
Callum lady, who is president of the Day
Nursery, was missed from the scene; but:
kindergarten enthusiast S. S. Cohen was
among the official group. Of these also was
Sir Philip Game, who soon moved upstairs
and got a fistful of cards.
Those gay young bucks the members of
the Union Club flung wide their Georgian
doors in old race-week style on Wednesday,
and up the front steps, from four onwards,
stepped a mixed company—mixed, that is
to say, in the matter of sex. From the
entrance, w'here Consett Stephen and Shep-
heard Laidley greeted them, the fair went
hypnotised into the belief that there was
nothing the club desired more than to be over-
run by high heels and high chatter. Hovering
about the hall were trig maids who offered
trays of posies for your choice; azaleas and
spring flowers thrust out their fresh colors in
contrast to the overcast day, and pink and red
roses on the tables almost but not quite
impressed the mind that eating was a mun-
dane affair. After the first cocktail this out-
look seemed parochial, and everybody became
quite brilliant at the intake. It was very
gay. There were red striped awnings to the
balconies, and in the dining-room palms and
ferns and greeny shoots had been built into
a graceful centrepiece, from the toil of which
pineapples and other tropic fruits shone,
their coloring picked out by cunningly-placed
electrics. The fashionables from Randwick
were all at the party, meeting one another
still again and saying all the expected things.
The Governor, “Giff” and Miss Crowdy repre-
sented Government House. Miss Eaditb
Walker made one of her rare appearances.
On Saturday Miss Eadith Walker had a
party of her own. Sydney is housing at the
moment more Anglican gaiters than it has
seen together for years; four archbishops
and two dozen bishops are meeting to review
the constitution of their church in Australia,
and Yaralla and its superb gardens enter-
tained them and their hosts and hostesses on
Saturday afternoon.
The most successful venture at the B.N.A.
fete was the art exhibition, and Mrs. A. T.
Anderson had
much to do
with it. With
Mrs. Godhard
she turned the
drawing - room
of Gove r n-
ment House
into an art
show which
netted £4OO.
Mrs. Ander-
son, whose
husband, Gen-
er a 1 Ander-
son, is private
secretary to
Sir Philip
Game, is very
keen on paint-
ing, especially
its modern
e x p r ession,
and part of
the gallery
was given over to canvases of this school.
One of the pretty effects of this show was
the group of girls dressed as women artists
of the past —Rosa Bonheur, Rosalba, Queen
Maud and so on —who acted as guides. Nor
must the generosity of the artists who gave
their work so freely pass without a cheer.
The little picture herewith is a recent one of
Mrs. Anderson.
Twenty years ago, before Mars had
drugged Peace to a sleep that was near to
death in the poppy fields of Europe, Chris
Brennan and Le Gay Brereton wrote a
Mask for the students of the Women’s Col-
lege. Last Friday Chris Brennan was
buried, and last Friday, for the second time,
the Mask was performed. Heralded by
Rumor, the women famous in the world-
movements down the ages stepped into view
of their audience through an impressive
Greek doorway.
The first performance was on the lawns
of the college, under a glittering afternoon
sun, a sun that lit up the silver armor of
Joan of Are—a traditional warrior maid
this, with spiritual gaze and rapt bearing;
that glinted on the bottle of Sairey Gamp
(as classic a figure as any, according to him
who had insisted on her inclusion in such
company) ; that blazed on the barbaric trap-
pings of Medea, and caught the golden
plaits of Marguerite, who represented our
own Nellie Melba.
Sybil Thorndike, who had lent the front
of Medea’s house for the production, was
one of the most interested in an audience
that was three-quarters academic, and, of
course, included Principal Susie Williams.
The girls in the Mask were a fine hunch —
you got a thrill even out of their looks. The
masses of red-gold hair worn by the Queen
Bess of the piece were her own, from follicle
to tip, color pigment inclusive. Lady Hamil-
ton, too, and Angelica Kauffmann and Tag-
lioni, fleet on nimble toe and whisking snowy
tulle, brought beauty again to pass. Rumor
(Amy Carpenter) was in lucid whites, Sibyl
(Barbara Smith) in black drapes, and the
Chorus in grey. Later there was a tea-
drinking in the Women’s College, at which
Sybil Thorndike was the guest of honor.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers’
party last week turned itself into almost an
orgy of medal-presenting. To begin with,
two plays tied for first place in the fellow-
ship’s competition—. John Gould’s “The
Death Ship,” a realistic piece of work about
the very beginnings of our history, and C.
L. Cunnington’s bush drama, “The Cudgewa
Outlaw.” Both these were read at the
party, and so was the prize poem, “Hugh
McCrae,” written by handsome Tom Moore.
Medals to the writers were handed around by
president George Mackaness; and an-
other —gold and laurel-wreathed^—went on
behalf of the Australian Literature Society
of Melbourne to F. D. Davison for the
best Australian novel of 1931, “Man-Shy.”
Doris Ilayball, of the southern city, repre-
sented the sister society of letters.
An island romance is reaching its second
stage this week (15th), when Pat Coates,
of Balmoral, is to marry Cecil Mason, of
Chatswood, and the Here Plantation, Solo-
mon Islands. After a brief motor trip up the
North Coast the young pair are leaving for
their island home by the next Mataram. Pat
is only following her sister Phyl's example,
as Phyl is now queening it over Ouesso plan-
tation on Malekula, New Hebrides.
These days a “chuck-in” party comes
easiest on all; so when 18 of Sydney’s most
entertained and most entertaining young
matrons pooled their finances for a race-
week ball everyone said “How clever!” except
those who didn’t get invited —they said,
“Oh, well, there’s nothing like being thrifty.”
Not that there was any sign of what they
really meant at No. 11 Onslow-avenue that
night. The decorations were like a spring
flower-show, and the frocking looked much
more like real money than that at Govern-
ment House. Among the handsomely-frocked
were Mrs. Jim Dickson in two tones of blue,
Mrs. W. E. P. Saunders in red chiffons,
Mrs. John Gunning and Mrs. Bill Gunning,
the fair Mrs. Pat Levy in pale pink lace and
Mrs. R. A. Eakin in mulberry chiffon.
While a lot of the oldsters rail at the
youth of to-day for its irresponsibility, most
of the young
things of Syd-
ney go calmly
ahead with
their various
schemes for
raising money
to help the
city’s chari-
ties and good
works. Here’s
Kathleen
Trefle, just
left school,
who last week
was the presi-
dent of a com-
mi 11 e e of
young sters
who made a
success of
their dance
for Holy Cross
Convent.
Kathleen is a
eievei* little actress, and last year, under
John Gould’s direction, worked for the Steele
Rudd testimonial. Kathleen’s father was at
the time of his early death the Minister for
Lands in the Holman Government. Dorothy
Welding photo.
What has been spoken of as Saidie Budge’s
dance for the B.N.A. Fair brought over 200
fluttering to Government House. A squally
southerly was simply boxing the face oft
spring, but carloads of diaphanous young
things blew in through the great doors and
down the hall to the cloakroom. Here any
burden in the way of a wrap was parked,
and noses were coated suitably for the begin-
ning of a perfect night. There w r as an extra
thrill tucked into the party because of the
strangeness of arriving through a street of
silent awninged booths and little houses —
like a baby ghost of the Easter Show. That
was a sleeping merry-go-round in the dis-
tance, and the illuminations were really
something out of the box. You could see the
satin of the green leaves, and blades of grass
stood out individual. After you had made
your curtsey to the Governor and Lady
Game and had finished admiring her slim
erectness in its caped frock of pink satin,
had said “How do you do?” to Bishop Halse
and Archgaiters Head and his wife, and to»
Saidie Budge, who, in cobalt blue chiffons,
seemed a secretary replete with content-
ment, you probably drifted on to the terrace.
Here, floodlights picked out the color and
design of all things, and the trees seemed
magic-fruited with their festoons of colored
lights.
There was one little deb., Prudence White,
whose thick, soft white satin frock was made
with puffed sleeves. Miss Crowdy stuck to
her favorite grey, and looked handsome.
Philip and David Game were both at the
party; so were “Giff” and dozens of glossy
partners for the girls. Madge Elliott and
Cyril Ritehard came on after their show,
and there was a bush nurse built of ice-
cream on the Governor’s supper table.
Lately home again, after a holiday in
U.S.A., Mrs. Martin Mcllraith. M.A., and
her daughter. Dr. Muriel. They enjoyed
many informative glimpses and much hospi-
talitv at American unis, and women’s clubs ;
in Boston they visited a university entirely
for women. Dr. Muriel has joined the staff
of the big hospital in Paddington.-
It was at a big dance at one of the “gal-
leries” the other wet night, and two of the
heads met. “How do you find the floor?”
asked one. “Seems to me a bit heavy,”
said the other. “Yes,” replied No. 1; “but
perhaps you’d find it better if you took off
your goloshes.”
Queensland queues up : :
The Mayoress’s room at the City Hall was decked
with pink and white azaleas for the reception to
John Brownlee and his wife. Mrs. Greene was in
black and white; Mrs. Brownlee was in navy with a
white hat; Rita Miller wore black shantung and
rose blonde with a broad-brimmed black hat. In
the afternoon at the Golden Glow Caf6 old Victorians
feted the singer and his wife, and at Albert House
in the evening Brisbane’s Musical Association did
the visitors honor. Nasturtiums, poppies and mari-
golds burned against the brown walls. Les Edye
and his wife and Mrs. Percy Brier received, Mrs.
Brier wearing floral georgette; Mrs. Edye was in
black and mushroom pink. Deputy-Governor Blair
and his wife were amongst the throng, she in
maroon and beige floral mousseline. There was a
musical programme, and Barbara Sisley provided
elocution.
At the first Brownlee concert Rita Miller wore
a pretty period frock of ivory, with hand-made
honiton lace on the crinoline skirt. In star-
light blue with a silver lamS cape, Mrs. Brownlee
was in the audience.
There were grey skies for Ascot races. The Blair
lady wore black with a jade-green roll collar; Mrs.
J. T. Bell was in black with touches of mushroom
pink; Mrs. Van Val2ah (Sydney), who was with
her, chose beige crSpe; Mrs. T. J. Ryan was in grey
georgette with a spray of white azalea; Beatrice
White (Sydney), who is up for Freda Stewart’s
wedding, was in black with stone-marten furs; Mrs.
Frank Hewison wore red; pretty Marge Stronach
was in blue and white; Mrs., A. D. B. Rowley was
smart in black with green and white blouse.
Twenty-one-year-old Peggy Doyle started on her
2500-mile flight, to Camooweal and back, in .blue
serge trousers and blue leather coat, gauntlet and
helmet to match. She made Longreach in her first
hop.
The Charles Dudley Persses kept their silver
wedding at Tabragalba. Mrs. C. S. Delpratt, who
was a bridesmaid, and Mr. de Burgh Persse, of
Wyamben, one of the ’groomsmen, were there. Mrs.
Edmund Parry Okeden (England) and Mrs. Slade,
of Warwick, who is now in England, were the
other bridesmaids. There were some 60 guests.
Dorothy Noble is marrying Alex. Murray at the
end of this month.


mmk
1 40.
,m',.
wwmM
m
f
sd
Children love it.
Figsen the gentle
laxative.
CONSTIPATION
THE THIEF OF ENERGY
There is no need for you to suffer from constipation when
you can correct it with FIGSEN. Figsen is as prompt in action
as it is gentle and natural. No purging. No griping pain.
Figsen acts smoothly on the intestinal muscles and helps them
to perform their natural functions.
Figsen is easy to take and will not upset the most delicate
etomach. It is good for kiddies as well as adults.
Sold and recommended by your chemist.
NX
L
FIGSEN
FOR CONSTIPATION
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
Itu in and bail on Saturday morning
boded ill for? the comfort of Caulfield patrons,
and though the afternoon was pleasant the
clearing came too late to encourage the
wearing of seasonable finery. In the large
attendance about the only hint of summer
was conveyed by two girls. One dangled
over her oyster-grey crepe-de-Chine gown an
immense ostrich plumage boa of the same
shade, topping the outfit with a shiny straw
sailor hat. Her companion brightened an
otherwise all-black turnout with a full cape
of black and white feathers. The men were
more courageous than the women. Chairman
Ben Chaffey gave tone to the committee box
by appearing as a study in greys. In the
committee ladies’ box was Mrs. Ben Chaffey,
whoso leaf-green suit was allied to a felt
hat. Florence McPherson, who accompanied
her, was all in brown. Mrs. J. Fell was
there with her daughters, Mrs. C. Jervis
Crespin and Mrs. K. Dawborn. Others in
the enclosure were Mrs. A. E. Syme and
Mrs. Burnside, the latter companioned by
Valeric Purves, a symphony in cigar-brown.
Mrs. J. J. Liston’s rose-pink frisca coat
made effective contrast with a shiny brown
straw hat. Mrs. Albert Campbell had a
mole fur wrap over a vivid-blue frock that
was topped by a hat of the same color.' Mrs.
Edric Henty was servigeably coated in tweed
with a sapphire-blue velvet toque. Mrs.
Alan Currie, combined a black suit and
silver fox furs. Mrs. A. G. Hunter, whose
husband’s horse, Liberal, won the Caulfield
Guineas, sported a black tailored suit with
a hair-stripe of white, and matching mil-
linery. Mrs. W. MortiU’s shepherd-plaid
suit was worn with an emerald-green hat.
The Harold Newbigins, Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Knox, Mrs. J. F. Nagle, Mrs. Oswald Syme
and Mrs. E. Harrison were among the
patrons.
Wing-Commander McNamara and the
officers of No. 1 Training School gave a
dance at the officers’ mess at headquarters
on Friday night. The blue uniforms of the
Air Force and Navy and the scarlet tunics
of the military helped to make the scene
a gay one. Mrs. McNamara, who, with her
husband, received the guests, was clad in a
pale yellow taffeta draped in a bustle effect
at the back. Lud Mayor Smith was a guest
of honor. Squadron-Leader Lukis was there
with Mrs. Lukis, who wore a flowered frock
of pussy willow, patterned in black, white
and scarlet. Wing-Commander Eric Harri-
son was accompanied by Mrs. Harrison and
their daughter Greta. Garnet Leary brought
his daughter Helen, whose strawberry-pink
frock featured deep tucks. Major and Mrs.
P. E. Coleman, she in black chiffon, were
among the dancers.
Grosvenor, Toorak, held a gathering of
youth' on Friday night when Mr. and Mrs.
C. R. Willan, of East Malvern, gave a dance
for the friends of their daughters. Black
lace and chiffon was worn by Mrs. Willan,
whose eldest daughter Margaret was in lapis-
lazuli blue lace. Jean’s frock was of filmy lace
combined with taffeta of daffodil tint; and
her younger sister Barbara, brightened her
black lace and taffeta draperies with a gleam
of peach-pink chiffon beneath.
Pictured here is Josephine Paxton, the
painter. She was a National Gallery stu-
dent under W.
B. Mclnnes,
but for many
years she has
resided in
London, with
a studio at
Chelsea. The
illness of her
sister, Mrs. C.
11. Robinson,
has brought
her back. Dur-
ing her first
four years
abroad Miss
Paxton studied
at the Slade
School, after
which she
toured Europe.
Her work has
been hung at
the Autumn
Salon, of Lon-
don, and at shows of the New English Art
Club and the Royal Society of Portrait
Painters. She is a member of the United
Society of Artists and the Salon of the
Independents. A show of Miss Paxton’s
work, mostly portraits, with a few land-
scapes, is being held at Collins House.
A cabaret dance at the Fernery added to
the funds of the Frankston Girl Guides.
Mrs. Percy McGovern was lion, sec., and
the programme was directed by Alaric
Hewitt. Beryl and Maisie Cowper stepped
in dances, and there were songs and sketches
in which Mrs. Evan Pearse the president,
tt Mackin - Betty Blogg, Maisie
Howitt, Norman Atkyns and others took
part.
A ball was given at Essendon Town Hall
in honor of Mayor and Mayoress Reid, who
have just concluded their term of office.
About .100 were present. The Mayor re-
ceived a gold watch; his wife, who wore
draperies of black chiffon, became possessor
of a diamond cluster brooch.
Associate members conducted a golf gym-
v mil a at the Kings ton Heath links to help
the Frankston Children’s Hospital. Over
f ill ? attended, and there were tables
1 lf J s £ 01 ‘ those who didn’t want to swing
golf clubs. 1 Mrs. Scott Lang and Mrs. R.
V. Braddoek were the chief movers
The Melbourne Hunt Club’s ’ point-to-
point meeting was held at F. W. Greave’s
place at Cranbourne. Ann McAuley had a
fall, and broke her collar-bone. Miss W.
Woodmason on Simplicity won the principal
event for huntswomen.
Mrs. Alfred Taylor boiled the billy at her
Malvern home in honor of her future
daughter-in-law, Cynthia Collins, who is to
wed the Taylors’ only son Robert. The
bride-elect, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Edmund Collins, of Frankston, was in a
frock the upper part of which was green
with stripes of black and white, and the
skirt black. A black sailor hat with a
blending trimming completed the picture.
She collected some delightful furnishings for
her linen cupboard. The hostess, whose silk
foulard gown was patterned in black and
fawn, with a dash of red, wore a scarlet
straw hat. Among the guests were Mrs.
Edmund Collins, a study in goblin blue, and
the prospective bridesmaids, Norme Collins,
Cherry Singleton and Joan Christian.
Pamela, elder daughter of the O’Dell
Crowthers, of Toorak, wedded Edward, elder
son of Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Hayne, at Christ
Church, South Yarra, transformed into a
bower of arum lilies for the occasion. The
knot was tied by the Bishop of Ballarat, Dr.
Crick, assisted by the Rev. Leonard Towns-
end. The bride’s gown of ivory lace flared
into a train, and a tulle veil descended from
a lattice cap of orange buds. Six ’maids,
who included the bride’s sister Valerie, and
the groom’s sister Rosemary, were in sleeve-
less chiffon frocks of the faintest blue, fash-
ioned with capes edged with pleated frills
and bordered with roses of the same
material. They wore caps of tulle with rou-
leaus of velvet, all the same tint, and short
gloves. Two small boys were pages. The
reception was held at Shipley House, home
of the ’groom’s parents, as Mr. Haynes, who
is an invalid, wanted to take part in the
rejoicings. Refreshments were spread in a
flower-decked marquee.
A Dickinson-Monteath camera produced
this pleasing profile, which, belongs to
Sandra, daugh-
ter of the late
E. H. Sh-ackell
and of Mrs.
Shackell, of
Toorak. _ Her
favorite sport
is h' u n ting,
and she is
sharing with
Margaret Fin-
lay the duties
of ticket secre-
tary for the
Animal Wel-
fare League
ball, to be held
at the Rex on
Melbourne
Cup eve. She
is also inter-
ested in the
Northcote Free
Kindergarten,
for which her mother is a great worker.
Mildred, younger daughter of F. W.
Hayes, of Dimboola, formerly of Albury,
was wedded to Donald, elder son of W. S.
Attwood, of Dundonald, Broadmeadows, at
the East Malvern home of Mrs. D. Suther-
land Smith, sister of the bridegroom. White
tulle and lace was worn by the bride, whose
attendant ’maid was attired in velvet of deep
buttercup hue.
The engagement has been announced of
knight William Brunton. an alderman of the
city and a former Lud Mayor, and Christina
McFadden, youngest daughter of the late
Mr. and Mrs. D. E. McFadden, formerly of
Carlton, Melbourne. The knot-tying is to
take place in Sydney on the 16th of next
month.
Margaret, elder daughter of Mrs. Bryans,
of Toorak, is receiving congratulations on
her engagement to Hubert, son of the R. S.
Blacks, of Perth. Miss Bryans has shown
talent in amateur musical shows.
The Girls’ Guild of the Y.W.C.A. engi-
neered a bridge party at Myer’s, the prin-
cipal workers being the president of the
Guild, Hilda Langley, Betty Fellows and
Shirley Ross. Mrs. B. Stewart Cowen. pre-
sident of the association, gave an address
on its work.
A novel feature of the arts and crafts
show at the Town Hall is the holding of
mannequin parades to display garments made
of fabrics hand-printed from blocks de-
signed by Michael O’Connell, and hand-
woven woollen materials and spun silk from
the looms of Ellis Coles and Phyllis Hunter.
The Allen lady launched the Society of
Women Painters’ show at the Athenaeum
gallery. The president, Mrs. J. T. Tweddle,
presented her with a basket of flowers, and
the hon. sec. of the society, Louie Harvey,
received a floral spray. There was a big
attendance at the first public viewing of the
exhibits, which include sculpture and painted
china.
There was a bridge party at Braille Hall
in aid of the Braille library, organised by
Mrs. Richard Gibson, Mrs. Cecil Harvey,
Mrs. Neville McKellar, Helen Aitken, Mary
Rigg, Millicent Ritchie and Miss M. H.
Crabb.
The Ladies’ Work Association held a sale
at the Town Hall on Friday, when many
women helped with gifts and gave then-
services as stall-holders. In the lingerie
stall were some beautiful samples of em-
broidered silk and fine linen undies, and
there was a nursery stall stocked with things
for infants, from soft toys to the daintiest
of frocks. Woollen knitted articles filled
another table or two. A stall was devoted
entirely to bridge requirements, including
cloths of shot taffeta, brocade and silken
tapestry. Mrs. Henrietta Walker demon-
strated the art of hook-rug making. One
of her hearth-rugs, fashioned out of odds
and ends of all sorts of woollen materials,
featured in its design a splash of crimson
flowering gum in the centre and at each
corner, the background mingling ivory and
biscuit shades. The Robnr Co. provided
afternoon tea.
In the Firm’s revival of “lolanthe,” at the
Royal, Evelyn Gardiner wore the white and
gold embroidered raiment of the Queen of
Fairyland. The colorful final curtain was ren-
dered more so by a harvest of flowers that
filled up the front line of the stage. In the
audience were knight Robert Best, his lady
ancl their daughter H'elene; Judge Williams
and Mrs. Williams, Mr. and Mrs. Maurice
Patkiu, the Len Buxtons, Senator and Mrs.
Elliott and the Rev. Eric Thornton.
Westralian pianist Ariel Seeligson, known
to listeners-in through 3LO, has decided to
make her home in Melbourne. She was at
one time a pupil of Edward Goll at the
Uni. Con.
Dramatic soprano Cora O’Farrell, an ex-
student of Albert-street Con. and one of
Melba’s protegees, who went to London a
few months ago, has become a member of a
revue co. appearing at Daly’s.
The C.W.A. has changed its domicile and
now has quarters on the third floor of 54
Market-street.
The W.N.L. is mourning the passing of
Mrs. John Booth, of Hawthorn, who for 12
years was hon. treas. She was a member
of the central executive for some years, and
was president of the branch in her own
district. Mrs. Booth was also vice-president
of the Travellers’ Aid Society and a member
of the Austral Salon.
The Royal Melbourne Tennis Club has
added to its array of honors boards one
recording the result of the first squash
racquets women’s championship. It is only
in comparatively recent times that the club
has accepted women members, and it is now
remodelling its rooms so as to give them a
separate suite and practice court. The club’s
first squash-racquet court was opened in
1927 by Lord Somers, the inspiration coming
from Edward P., who is a very keen player.
In the final of the championship Mrs. Ross
Grey Smith defeated Beverley Jackson.
Dorothy Sheil, owner and trainer of Pre-
cocious, winner of the Grand National
Steeplechase, is making recovery after an
operation for appendicitis.
A coming production at the Haymarket,
London, with Fay Compton and the beau-
teous Owen Nares in the leading rdles, will
be “Once a Husband,” by Margot Neville.
Margot Goyder and Mrs. Ann Neville, two
Melbourne sisters, are behind this pseudonym.
They have written a number of novels which
are popular in England and America. In
the present case they collaborated with
Gerald Kirby, the English actor, who was
prominent in .T.C.W. casts up to a year or
so ago.
Adelaide activities:—
At the Hunt Club meeting only a few optimists
ventured out in lightweight frocks, and they were
glad to don their fur coats early in the afternoon.
Mr. E. A. Brooks (president) and his wife enter-
tained at tea in the committee-room. Mrs. Brooks
looked well in amber-brown wool georgette ensemble
and a brown straw hat to match. Her daughter
Barbara also chose brown for her outfit. Mrs. F. A.
Tennant and Mrs. A. M. Toll were two who ventured
to wear spring toilettes; Mrs. Tennant’s beige ring
velvet had a cape effect, and was worn with a small
tagel straw to match; Mrs. Toll was in, dove-grey
tailored suit and a shiny sailor hat.
Lilian Crisp, of the J. C. Williamson company,
chose Adelaide as the scene of her nuptials, as her
old friends Hr. and Mrs. G. R. West, of Prospect,
wanted her to be married from their home. The
bridegroom (Lambert Ogborne) and his mother
arrived from Sydney in the morning and the ceremony
took place in the evening at the Methodist Church,
Kent Town. This was packed to overflowing, and
there was a dense crowd outside, through which the
bridal party had to fight their way to the motor.
The bride wore mongolia-toned satin and a honiton
lace veil. Her sister Edith came over from Westralia
to be bridesmaid with Dorothy West. The Ogbornes’
future home will be in Sydney.
Jean, the pretty daughter of the Allen Willcoxes,
of Kilburnie, Korunyie, was married to Lance Walters
at Christ Church, gowned in parchment lace and a
tulle veil to match. The reception was held at
Bracklinn, the residence of the bride’s uncle, Dr.
Frank Willcox, Medindie. The wedding tea was
served in a large marquee on the lawn.
At Athelney, Hackney, Mrs. E. B. Hughes gave
an at-home to meet Captain Hans Bertram, who
gave a most interesting chat upon his experiences.
Lady Hore-Ruthven was present, also Mrs. L. L.
Hill. The German airman recounted his adventures
again in the evening at the Town Hall, and. held
' his audience enthralled for two hourg; hundreds were
unable to get in.
To assist in raising funds for Kuitpo Colony a
Gymkhana was held at the Kooyonga links on
Wednesday. The vice-regals were present and entered
for the numerous events; they are both keen golfers.
Raspberry]and records:—
Conductor Geo. A. Jackson showed at his best in
the programme submitted by the Philharmonic
Society at the Town Hall. Elgar’s “Banner of
St. George” was the star item, with Doreen Bidencope
as soloist. The orchestra has of late improved out of
sight, and David Fierclough’s artistic violin obbli-
gatos to most of the solos were a treat. Other
performers included Molly Whitelaw (violin), Mar-
garet Burcham (piano), Mercia St. Leger, J. H.
Tanner, Beryl MacDonald and 11 madrigal singers.
In aid of the Repat. Hospital a committee of
bi-ight young things ran a cheery dance at Claremont,
Bridget Dickenson and 0. Jones were joint sees,;
the hall was decorated with flags and the supper-
tables with a color scheme of sunset tones.
Except for one day, when the rain poured un-
relentingly from dawn to dusk, the weather was*
ideal for the State championship golf matches, and
links were in perfect trim. Betty Perry got away
with the women’s championship.
Launceston audiences showed warm appreciation of
Leslie Laurier’s production of “Tons of Money” at
the National Theatre. Laurier and Yolande Bashford
took the leading roles, supported by Mrs. R. W.
Wall, Mrs. Don Atkins, Mrs. Glaser, R. A. Me-
Eachern, Don Atkins, Capt. Muller, Dr. Tim Hogg
and G. Billing. Staging, setting and dressing were
all very effective, and Mrs. E. G. Holland deserves a
special bouquet for stage management.
Trixie Meech, whose fancy dancing has been a
feature of many entertainments in Hobart in recent
years, announces her engagement to Wilfrid Kemp,
barrister, of Leeds (England).
Dr. C. B. Berryman has been appointed surgeon
superintendent at the Devon Hospital, in succession
to Dr. G. A. Walpole, who is retiring.
Sixty delegates gathered for the A.W.N.L. con-
ference in Launceston. Mrs. Mary Parker was elected
State president, with Miss R, Maxwell vice-president.
Luncheons and various other entertainments lightened
the off-hours.
A word from the West:—
From Singapore come details of the marriage of
Margaret . Egerton Warburton, of Bridgetown, and
Robert Ernest Wilgress, Singapore’s municipal
analyst. The bride wore a shimmering gown em-
bossed with silver roses; her cascade of tulle veil
was held in position by a pearl coronet and on her
arm was a sheaf of Madonna lilies. Two .small
attendants wore frocks to their toes and seed pearl
caps. The Eastern Extension’s J. S. Jenkins couple
held a reception in their garden. Mr. Jenkins
handed over the bride, and Mrs. Jenkins was matron-
of-honor in a flowered ninon gown.
The Motor Ball in G.H. ballroom added weight to
the votes for Mrs. Downe, the “Motor Ray.” The
entrance hall was a romantic nook of green shrubs
and Chinese lanterns, flame-tree burnt crimson upon
the band’s platform and the pillars in the supper-
room were hidden with twining wistaria. Mrs.
Downe, who carried red roses against a misty grey
frock, held court in one of the alcoves. Among the
dancers were Connie Wardell-Johnson in blush-pink
laces, Jessie Meares in green, intricately pleated
across the back, Doreen Sheridan in mushroom laces
supported by twinkling shoulder straps, Mollie Lloyd
in blue satin, Joan Good in a whirl of parchment
laces and Clarice Sainsburv in oleander-pinks.
Peggy Flight Smith, of South Perth, and Cecil,
second son of the A. H. Mallocli couple, have
plighted a troth.
Miss Tim Morrison, who has been visiting her
mother, Mrs. Trethowan, and renewing friendships
of her school-days, leaves this week for home and
husband in the Sudan.
Mrs. Collot d’Herbois is running Jessie Traill’s
exhibition in the Atlas Building. There are draw-
ings and etchings of the Harbor Bridge at several
stages in its construction, architectural peeps at
other lands in etchings and water-colors, glimpses
of Central Australia’s sandy wastes and some lovely
aquatints.


Hragging-dowift
and
BACKACHE
A Sui*e, Tried and
Trusted Remedy
Backache is seldom, if ever, just backache.
The dull aching, the sharp stabbing twinges of
pain, the down-dragging, head-aching, nerve-
depressing misery has a deep-seated, dangerous
cause—weak or diseased kidneys.
Always ailing, pain-ridden men and women,
you must face the facts. Men—in these
anxious times you cannot afford to start and
carry through the day crippled with pain,
showing in every movement, in your face, your
very eyes, signs of age-giving, wearing-out
kidney trouble. Women—you cannot wilfully
neglect or tinker about with your health until
breakdown comes in sight.
When we firmly state that De Witt’s Kidney
1
m
i
m
; '
it
and Bladder Pills will end the suffering you now endure and bring
back days of happiness, there are thousands of wives and mothers,
nurses, clergymen, chemists, and a host of men and women in all
walks of life glad to tell you how De Witt’s Pills ended their
“untold agonies,” “maddeningtorture,” “crippling pain”—in some
cases after years of suffering.
. x ' *. -t
Mrs. A. Weightman, 3 Bridge Street, Granville, V N.S.W.,, writes: —“ It is with
the greatest gratitude I write to tell you about the wonderful benefit I have
derived from your pills. I was a great sufferer for eight months front
kidney and bladder trouble, and my back was very bad. I could scarcely
walk any distance. 1 was hardly ever out of my room, and I was often
confined to my bed for weeks at a time. I suffered torturing pain day and
night. I was nearly at death's door , but since using De Witt's Pills I feel
like a new woman. My backache has completely gone, and lam able to
feel that life is worth living now. I cannot speak too highly of your
wonderful pills, and will never be without a bottle in the house.”
Worn-out, ill, life a misery one day, the next—free from pain,
able to enjoy work and pleasure—this is the experience of thou-
sands who have taken De Witt’s Pills for Backache, Rheumatism,
Swollen Joints and other painful complaints caused by Kidney
Trouble. Why wait a day longer ? Get a bottle of this 40-year-old
remedy from your chemist to-day and enjoy good health again.
De Witt’s Pills are recommended by one-time sufferers every-
where, and used the world over. You will see and know they
are doing you good within twenty-four
hours. There is no other medicine which
gives this safe, quick and certain benefit. /
There are cheap imitations. You will /
wisely ask for the genuine De Witt’s /
Pills. Sold by all chemists in two
sizes, 3/6, or larger, more economical
size, 6/6. Never sold loose.
DeWitts
Kidney
and
Bladder
Pills
y//?
W\.
Biraban's Debt.
BY NORMAN LOCKE.
BIRABAN was tired. As he plodded over
the sandy waste his every bone ached
with unutterable weariness.
Unless memory had, played him false, a
waterhole ought to be there at the foot
of . the. .. ridge; water that meant life to
Biraban. And if Darumulun, who lives
beyond the skies, proved kind, there might be
food as well.
Though lie looked old and decrepit, Bira-
ban was comparatively young. Only a few
years ago he had been lithe and muscular.
But all that seemed ages ago. Since then
white pfeller namcry (food) and fire-drink
had' taken toll. And now Biraban was a
wreck. The narlu of disease had entered
his body, and, staggering along, lie barked
a significant cough that wracked his emaci-
ated frame. !
’ Far! behind lay. the town he had left.
Nearly , dix hundred miles farther north,
camped" somewhere between Alice Springs
and . Barrow’ Creek, he would find the Arun-
ias, the tribe of his forefathers. .
. It was several hours later when Biraban
reached the base of the ironstone ridge.
Lying face down he drank deep, of the
brackish ..water. Silent as a shadow lie had
approached, tlie spot to find that no .wild
creatures were watering there.
So Biraban hunted. With nostrils a-quiyei
and eyes shining green through the starlit
night, he stalked among the mulga. There
came, a sudden hiss. A spear swished
through the air and a black snake lay
writhing at his feet. .
, In the red embers of a brushwood fire he
cooked, numereji and ate thankfully. The
moon rose and .floated like a huge copper
disc in the sky. Biraban, too weary even
to sleep, lay down to rest. The pungent
smoke started his coughing again. He rolled
further from the fire, and with. dug. brown
eyes fixed on Ingit.cha, who so.. majestically
lorded over the lesser flights of-the sky, he
fell to thinking, in his hazy, animal way,
of the .years he had. spent with his tribe
before he had been enticed away by the
white pfcllcrs’ blandishments and lies and
the fire-drink that burned the health from
the biackpfclier’s lungs.
He was sad because Darumulun had
provided so frugal a Supper; but what more
could be expected? '.From the beginning
Darumulun had been unkind. Birabau’s .very
entry into the world had been reluctant aiid
fraught with suspicion. Lying there in the
moonlight lie remembered the stories which
were whispered by the Old Men of the
Arunta.' They told how Imberombera,
the Great Ancestor who is responsible for
peopling the world, had placed a man-child
in the loins of Biraban’s mother.' But tlie
birth had been difficult; so difficult, indeed,
that it became necessary for Nama,, the
Grandmother of the tribe, to chant and moan
for many hours. And 'when, during the
christening, the ceremonial spear had
snapped while being heated oyer the fire, the
Old Men looked askance and muttered fear-
fully. They christened the child Biraban ;
but' for his tribal name—the name that is
never uttered aloud—they chose one which
means He-who-is-born-to-trcuble.
On the verandah of the Weeljarra mission-
house, 500 miles north, the Reverend
Twibble sat facing -big J olm - Carter from
Yalpa station. Between them lay a dis-
ordered army of chessmen, and by, the side
of the Reverend Twibble stood a teacup in
which scurrying ants already foraged for
sugar. Carter was sipping a whisky and soda.
“I’m afraid, John,” the missioner was
saying, “that to-night I’m off my game.
Carter looked at his friend. He observed
the twitching foot, the drumming fingers and
the strained look in Twibble’s pale blue eyes.
“What’s on your mind,. Padre?” he . asked
bluntly.
“I don’t quite know,” replied Twibble
slowly. “There seems to be trouble brewing
among the blacks, but the nature of it
is I can’t fathom. There’s an atmosphere of
suppressed excitement, about ;the place. I
feel that something terrible is about .to
happen. What form it will take I don’t know.
“They’re . queer cusses,” admitted' Carter.
’‘Take a lot of understanding ; though actions
that appear, strange to us are logical enough
to them with their centuries of custom and
legend. What about your liouseboy, old Luk-
kapanda-—is lie dumb too?”
"Yes! Almost daily for the. past week
I’ve entreated —absolutely entreated—him to
Confide in mej until now he avoids me when-
ever lie can. Last night, however, I found
him squatting in the woodshed, ‘shaking
his head and muttering ‘Biraban 1 Biraban!’
When I asked him what he meant, lie closed
up like an oyster.”
“Biraban!” repeated Carter. “I reckon
that conveys a whole lot to nip..' I reckon
it accounts for ’most everything, including
the smoke signals I saw iii the south
to-day. So Biraban’s coming'back, eh?”
“What docs it air mean, John? Whh is
this Birahan?” .
John Carter slowly loaded . his pipe.
Beneath his greying hair his brow wrinkled.
He seemed to be delving into half-forgotten
memories. > l
“I recollect it all now,” he said at length:
“This Biraban chap belonged; to .'the Arunta
tribe. He was under some sort .of-curge,
so 1 heard. Then one • day, -long -before
your time .here, the. police tapped, the, tele-
graph wii;e and asked me if I could rush
down - a ; blacker acker to find. a. child ‘ who
was bushed about a .thousand miles south.
Biraban went. He was the only one ( 1 could
persuade to leave the 'tribe. To‘cut a; long
story short, the' police reckoned that he’d
be a useful fellow to hhyd" around. , Tli£y
chucked him an old tunic and a few sticks
of baccy, and..Biraban stayed.”.' ‘ J ohri .Carter
pafised. His face' grew. Stern. “A month
or so later',” he proceeded, “a prospector
was murdered .by the blacks of. these "parts— :
been fooling, around with . the Arunta gins,
So l heard. after.' . Anyhow, the , police came
up and they'brought Biraban to track the
culprits. They kidded him tliat .it was the
Arabvmna tribe they were after, and Biraban
believed what lie was told. He wasn’t wise
to the white fellow -in those days. He woke
up too late. The police got .the A tin it as
conic red. A spear was flung. Then there
was shooting and two blacks were killed.
That left Biraban between the Devil and the
deep sea. He chose the Devil rather than
death at the hands of the tribe he had
unwittingly betrayed. And now,” continued
Carter slowly, “he’s coming back. And what is
more, the tribe hnmes that he’s coming back.”
“But why?” exclaimed Twibble in astonish-
ment. “Why should he? Surely he knows
what may happen!”
“Aye,” returned Carter. “He knows what’s
in front of him: but we don’t know wliat’s
behind him. Can’t you imagine something
of what he must have suffered this last few
years? Ridiculed; spat on! Confined by
four stoiie walls and the white man’s mind ;
never hearing a word of his own lingo;
yearning for a sniff of the bush; longing to
sleep again under the stars with a woman
of his kind! And,” added Carter softly,
“some of those blacks have a idea that
a debt incurred must eventually be paid.”
“But he must be mad,” cried Twibble
starting to his feet. “They’ll murder him.”
“No,” corrected Carter gently, “they’ll not
murder him. They may kill him; but it’ll
be. something in the nature of a ritual, an
act of retribution devoid of vengeance.
Something of. greater significance to them
than would be .the mere letting of blood.”
“Killing is-. murder,” muttered Twibble
brokenly. “It can't be whitewashed. It
must not be. : I shall go out among them
and piteventi.it.”. .- •-
Carter:blew a ring of smoke and watched
it fioait into the shadow beyond the circle
of light cast .by the lamp before answering.
*. .“.Consider well,”; he then , admonished
kindly, -.“before- you interfere; ■ In the first
place,you’d'heyer get within,coo-ee of them.
Or if you did you’d, never come back.- That
would;, mean , more ; police, more shooting,
more misunderstanding. Suppose you did,get-
back.-, you’d find . that what little influence
you have-over -them' had-disappeared. Better,
to.let thing’s take their course. Your blacks
may desert in' a . body. If do, they ..will,
return after a few days looking sheepish,
and you can.carry on with your good .work.
Another i point to .be considered : I reckon
poor old Biraban'has just about come to
the i end. of ohis" trail. The white man’s
tucker and:.disease sooiv knock ’em up: He
feels? death near. That’s why he’s returning.
They- do that.” , '
: In the morning, Twibble found that Carter
had spoken truly. Not a native could he found.;
Biraban was nearing Ms journey’s end.
The effort of the last few weeks had left
it's ’-mark on the man. He was now little
nio-re- than a skeleton. His cough had
become worse, his skin was blotched by .the
bites of a thousand insects, arid a light,
feverish -and fanatical, shone in his eyes.
. He -knew that for these many days he
had not travelled' alone. / Though he had seen
no-one; lie sensed the presence of an escort,
silent, patient and invisible, that dogged
his failing steps.
Biraban’s trail led him over a low-lying
range, of bare bills. Completely worn out
and coughing fitfully he reached the summit,
and through the dusk which was now soft-
ening the jagged outline of the hills he saw
the leaping lights of the tribal camp-nres.
For a while he rested his aching body.
Then he struggled on, down the rock-strewn
slope, across the wide plain toward the
dwarfed timber that stood by the conical hill.
Now he could dimly discern the outline of
his tribesmen as they crouched around the
fires. As he approached they rose. A small
body of the elder men detached themselves
from the main group and came forward
lo meet him. Without a word they sur-
rounded Biraban, and a feiy moments later
he was back among the tribe.
Old Urrohurro stepped forward. Gravely
lie spoke, pointing first to the moon and then
in the direction of the ceremonial-ground in
the hills. „ ,
Biraban understood. “Eeyo, he said
weakly in assent, and • at that he was led
away to where a rough shelter had been
prepared for his coming. There lie rested,
while close by the warriors watched.
From a whispering group a middle-aged
woman melted away, and, treading softly,
approached the place where Biraban lay at
rest. He looked up as she entered the mia mia.
“Namapilta!” he cried hoarsely.
“Biraban!” she answered softly.
He had been her pirraura husband. On
occasions when her tippa-malku husband had
been long absent from the tribe, it had been
Biraban’s. privilege to care for her. Such
is Aruiita law. He had once hoped to be her
tippa-malku husband.- but Darumulun had
been unkind. The, Old Men prohibited the
regular union. Was not Biraban accursed.'
Had not the gods spoken? And Namapilta
had been given to another man w r lio was
strong, brave and cruel. It was for the
goodi of the tribe.
. -So these . two, ageing gin and worn-out
renegade, sat and talked. They talked not
so. much with their lips as with their eyes,
for the eyes of the Arunta people can tell
of those subtle thoughts that clumsy tongues
could never, express.
: Until-Angiteha had climbed far up the
spangled,sky they'; talked, and .then from the
place of ceremony .in ;the hills came a wan-
ing.' weird and ' tremulous. . The women
Huddled :together by ■;the fire. Namapilta
rose,- and with t a look of infinite compassion
left ihinr alone.- : .
Outside the mia-mia the Old Men appeared
.like shadows in the gloom. A brief command
was croaked. ; Amid/a,; circle of spears Bira-
bau marched along the rocky'track, between
spire-like, cliffs,. to the,, ceremonial-ground.
The’women cowering in the valley beneath
heard the sacrificial song .rise to a. scream-
ing. crescendo;, then,- like a spent gale, it
gradually' died in the distance. 1 •,
;When the Old Men returned their spears
were wet,-and above them a swarm of bloated
flies hummed a monotonous requiem.
They wrapped ...him in a .rug of ’possum
skins' and bound him, round with pieces ot
hark. Then in a hollow tree they placed him,
head facing the c'amping-grc-und.
“And the spirit of Biraban,” the Old Men
tell, “will one day he born again as a man-
child ;to live happily with the tribe; to hunt,
to sing, to love. For Biraban returned honor-
ably. Biraban paid his debt.”


A
\
\
n
*
V
Bn
m
7a
.A.:' ,
c
#
'
i
wmmmm
MMMMMM'' ■■• ■ ■ ■ .:■. W'" -■ ;■:
-
& ;
■
- - 4 ■' ' y
■^7/mKOm r ' r ■'''■■
i
■1
4 : -v.
••'; •
■
■M|pl
Ilf
11
HERE
ARE THE
FACTS!
CAR—ESSEX SEDAN
OWNER*—MR. F. YOTT, MELBOURNE
PURCHASED NEW—3lst AUGUST, 1928
PHOTOGRAPHED—3Ist AUGUST, 1933
TOTAL MILEAGE—IOO,OOO MILES
EXPOSURE—CAR EXPOSED WEATHER AVERAGE 12 HOURS DAILY FOR 4 YEARS
PRESENT CONDITION OF DUCO—AS NEW DUE TO SIMONIZING. See Essex Agent’s Letter Below
jl{
NOTE.-*-BLOCK
OF CAR MADE
FROM UNRETOUCHED
PHOTO. BY QARGE,
MELB. NO ART I S T4S
TOUCHING UP ON BODY-
WORK EXCEPT SPEED LINES ON
WHEELS! AND THE CAR REALLY
LOOKS MORE BEAUTIFUL THAN THE
PHOTO.
ORIGINAL DUCO PROTECTED BY SIMONIZING
NOW INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM NEW!
WHAT MB. YOTT HAS ACCOMPLISHED YOU ALSO CAN DO. Just think of it—loo,ooo miles, equal to>lo Jeare
ordinary driving conditions and the paint work unmarked and in the same showroom condition as when delivered ne ,
exposure under
ESSEX AGENTS ENDORSE EXTRAORDINARY BEAUTY MILEAGE
Mr. H. J. Lane, Director of Neals Motors, Victorian Hudson- Essex Agents, writes as follows: “Essex Sedan Reg. No. 93071,
ivas delivered new , August 31, 192 S and after inspection to-day we were surprised to find the original duco in extra-
ordinarily good condition 4 equal to, new. To our knowledge this car has travelled over IOOJOQO miles, including 10 trips,
to Sj/dney and back, twice to both Canberra and Adelaide and back, and has followed reliability tests and 24-hoy.rs
trials as official car . The only attention it has received to maintain the duco finish in such condition was periodical Simonizing.
DO NOT DESPAIR IF YOUR CAR IS DULL AND FADED.
Buv a can of Simoniz Kleenex - (green tin) and Simoniz (yellow tin) and restore it to new beautv j ourself. Kleenex
applied with a soft cloth removes all dullness and restores the original color. Then simoniz imparts a lustrous protective
film, which keeps the finish beautiful for thousands of miles immune to dust, dirt, mud and weather conditions.
Simoniz and Kleener are sold by good motor stores at 5/- pair small, 10/- pair large; single tins, -mall, ~/9> laige, o, 6
L/ Z7HoftaridtfWi4&^
SJSS
pUCO
C
•SJM" AND PROTKCTiS
FINISHES
TO
I.SIBSO
ERA
sws
zy.
SQU
ers
DU CO
!®=sSteL.:
E
All
co
PToUIHf
AMCi.
CKATCHINB
.THBIS
Rle
f
5%S
-
Silßs
ouco
free:
SAMPLES
FOB TBIAIi ON YOUR CAB
SIMON
* 1,111,1,111,11 * INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS:
PERTH.
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd.
HOBART.
C. C. Boag Pty.»
ADELAIDE.
Cornell, Ltd.
Harris, Scarfe, Ltd.
J. N. Taylor, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Motor Accessory
Houses.
NEW ZEALAND.
H. O. Wiles, Ltd., Auckland.
SYDI
Bennett & Wood, Ltd.
Bennett & Barkell, Ltd.
Hislop Lloyd. Ltd.
Westcott Hazell, Ltd.
BRISBANE.
Butler Bros, Ltd.
E.S.C.A., Ltd.
Martin Wilson, Ltd.
i Motorite Equipments Pty., Etd., Peel St., Nth. Melb.,
Enclosed find one penny stamp, postage for FREE
| SAMPLES of Simoniz and Kleener.
j NAME ..
I
| ADDRESS
“Bulletin,” Oct. 12.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
fafeutlMn
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
TEE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS *
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/*; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/"; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, o/-
T*
f,
s e cV
...
0®
4 ' C St<>
A' atir ■
&%nr &
0 ' 4-^o^
I f S . (ft
<s*'<«.♦ *


$ P
ET M
DROIT
BY APPOINTMENT TO
the ..king
m
DIEN
ICH
BY appointment to
H.R.H.THE PRINCE OF WALES
LUBRICATE
EMPIRE
TRADE
with
WAKEFIELD
MOTOR OIL
A Grade for Every
Motoring and
Engineering Purpose
C. C. WAKEFIELD & CO. LTD. (tm All British Firm )
