

GOLD
—the magnet of
men's hopes—the not
at the foot of the rain-
bow standard for
the measure of values
since the earliest
Stays of civilisation.
El Dorado.
Ml
tii
W\\n\
%
{ ! IX
%
%
m
m.
%
?A
■:s,x4
*/'* t ,»
*6.
'tim
r !('«■
m
/ /
-ms
Kg
K, "c it 0
«G
3
s-
C OLn
yc/Lr
<2&
*°<%Zn
H
2^
"ir
"it
‘‘Ky
h*
<s
So
:**W
ftodoncct
c fo
icon
AND
Fittingly
Labelled
in Gold
IT tells you —the GOLD LABEL on a King George
IV. bottle—that within you can hope to find the
most precious of spirits —a whisky of such quality, of
such rarity in blend and flavour, that your search for
the superfine ends when you take off the cap.
kisg r.Eom n.
LM£
r.OLII lAliil
SCOTCH WHISKY
i
Bottled in Bend under Government Supervision.
The Bulletin
Gu> a, fiojcji S
VoL 53.—N0. 2733.
Wednesday, June 29, 192?.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a .Newspaper.


T HK Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
l>;irl ieulars, post, free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
II
liU*
Tins Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
1.0(1 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
10pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Morement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bui.letik,
My Name
My Address
SJ3, 332
JJYSAGHT7
o
d
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
ECONOMIC NEWS’’
ORIGINAL. READABLE. FREE FROM
PROPAGANDA. THE MOST INFORMA-
TIVE AND UP-TO-DATE NEWS.
“Our purchasing power, our goodwill arid our
brains are not being used..there are towers of
babel.... Sailing directions for normal conditions do
not govern sound seamanship in a hurricane....
merely to see a little further than is common is not
to see far enough.... Common sense has failed.”
FOR AUSTRALIANS WHOSE
BRAINS ARE FREE.
PRICE Is. 6d. EACH. ALL BOOKSHOPS,
ALL STATES, OR POST FREE FROM
THE BUREAU OF ECONOMICS,
BRISBANE.
“On the creation of credit the average person lias
as much knowledge as the aboriginal on tbe creation
of life, and as much superstition.”
Monetary Policy and the Practicable Alternative
to Inflation and Douglasism.
Here is light without heat.
By J.
“CREDIT”
B. BRIGDEN. Price 1/6
IF
you desire to reach that section of
the N.Z. public that moulds the buy-
ing habits of the rest;
IF
you have a message for New Zealand-
ers who have more money to spend
on more commodities than the many;
IF
your goal is a market with the maxi-
mum capacity to respond to your
advertising efforts, then cover the
Wellington Province, the highest in
spending power, by using the most
effective medium,
tbo Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY.
Australian Reprcsen tative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
Free
from
Pim-
ples !
sdfsdf
ƒsdf
sdfs
df
What a relief it is to know that
your skin ean be free of blemishes.
Anoint gently with Cuticura
Ointment, then wash off in a
few minutes with Cutieura
Soap and warm water. A very
simple but satisfying treatment
of pimples!
The Cuticura Treatment has
been used for years in thousands
of homes throughout the world.
CIJTICfJRA
Soap le. Ointment Is. and 2b. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each lircc.
Address: K. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
THE PATRIOT
|DIRECrMEDiyM^WOMey
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. 0. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane ‘Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane ’’’Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that: advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office': F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
. should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,“ (>d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander'’ Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney-; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Science,
S&rzi StcXieJ, StZy&.
$■ Screen TurC&i, styeeS fox
iAe Suriftxf. r
TheAUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES ©S
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
“Through Many Tribulations”
A number of books which have been
reviewed on this page showed what the Rus-
sians went through between the beginning
of their revolution under Kerensky and its
consolidation under Stalin. For 12 years
men, women and children died violent
deaths in hundreds of thousands. Now
the rivers of blood have almost ceased to
How, a generation has arisen which looks on
the Soviet form of government as normal,
and fdreign excursionists are being encour-
aged to judge far themselves whether or no
the holocaust was worth while. The two
wofks discussed below resemble each other
in ways: both authors are sympathetic to
the U.S.S.R., both were in Russia last
summer, and both toured more or less the
same small area, namely, Moscow and the
country between it and the Volga. One is
a dispassionate philosopher, the other a
journalist, who was irritated by anti-Red
rubbish in London. Neither is the type to
be hoodwinked, even if the Soviet authori-
ties had attempted anything of the sort,
and it doesn’t appear that they did. A
composite picture is given of a society which
will be recognised by thousands of Aus-
tralians; the social organisation of an area
in a war zone. No one is allowed to starve,
work is obligatory, and leisureliness is
shameful. When a drunk got annoyed wfith
one of the tourists he said “You’re no
worker!” the equivalent of the Army “You
scrimshanker! ” Everything is on a com-
munity basie—sport, eating, family life—
and no one is free. The nation is being
asked to put up with unfreedom, not for
the duration of the Five-year Plan, but for
ever. The Five-year Plan is to be followed
by a Ten-year Plan, and the Director of
the Institute of Plant Industry told Pro-
fessor Huxley that it would then “be quite
easy to frame a Hundred-year Plan... .and,
perhaps, a Thousand-year Plan.”
A Tripper's ImpressionS
Hubert Griffiths, author of Seeing Soviet
Russia (Bodley Head; 3s. 6d.), paid £25
in London for a 21-day tour, taking in
Leningrad and Moscow. He left on a
Soviet liner (5000 tons, and very comfort-
able), and got his first view of the promised
land one morning off the mouth of the
Neva. The tour was “personally con-
ducted”:—
The enthusiasm of the guides was insatiable. Tf
we were taken over one factory we were taken over
a dozen. I became so sick of factories, textile
factories, machine factories, cigarette factories, after
three weeks of them that it is my earnest hope in
life never to sec another.
The factory kitchens interested him—“some
can provide meals for 10,000 people a day.”
He was amazed by the number of women
factory-workers, and noted that a man-
woman type was being evolved. The whole
nation is rationed:—
Every man and woman working in Russia has
the right to buy certain necessities in certain
quantities, and to buy them reasonably cheap. What
he or she wants over and above this has to be
bought in the “open” shops, and often to be bought
extremely dear.
He met a member of the celebrated O.G.P.U.
(“a body that’ is popularly supposed in
England to subject all whom it comes
across'to torture and extermination”), and
was not impressed. He explodes the British
(or rather Chelsea-Bloomsbury) myth about
the artistic merits of the modern Russian
cinema. He was interested as a professional
critic, and saw “The Road to Life,” which
was crowded; though it had been running
for three months.
■personally I consider it very bad. The best of
the Russian silent films have been masterpieces, but
the new talkie technique has sent them back to the
beginning again. It was an affair of close-ups and
fights, and loud noises and crude lighting.
The anti-God crusade has been misrepre-
sented, too. The Government propagands
against religion, especially among the young,
but “any 20 people can be recognised us a
congregation”; and Griffiths went to services
in Moscow and the country which were
largely attended, chiefly by old people.
Julian Hxley
Professor Huxley, as might be expected,
is more explicit in A Scientist Among the
Soviets (Chatto and Windus; 6s.). When
he mentions that abortion up to three
months is legal, he adds that “it is per-
formed by trained surgeons in properly-
equipped hospitals,” and that the number
carried cut in Moscow the year before he
arrived was “a little more than the number
of births.” He had better opportunities
to get at facts and figures than the other
writer. He went “as one of a party of
scientific and musi-
cal men and women
organised by the
Society for Cul-
tural Relations,”
and met • leading
Communists such
as Bukharin. He wasn’t impressed by the
local art (“there is a feeling that it is a
bourgeois plaything”); or the films (“many,
perhaps most, cinema theatres in Russia
to-day are showing American films, usually
of low quality”); or the drama, which is
“largely vitiated by its over-obvious propa-
ganda and the constant insertion of long
and tendentious political discussions iu the
dialogue.” But he admired what he calls
“this Subzotnik business” (voluntary work
on the roads, in the fields, etc., performed
in the same spirit as, say, Comforts Fund
work was performed here during the war);
the health service, which has almost ban-
ished typhus and given the general popu-
lation “a level of physique and health
rather above that to be seen in England”;
and the enlightened attitude towards
science—-“the Soviet Government’s annual
appropriation for its geological survey is
larger than the expenditure of all the other
nations of Europe lumped together on
theirs.”
As regards the scientific situation in general,
Russia in respect of most branches of pure science
is in the first rank and is turning out new and
fundamental research work at a great rate.
In education the Russians seemed to him
to be making the same kind of mistake as
the British; only instead of giving it an
aristocratic bias they are concentrating on
an industrial bias, which, like England’s
classical tradition (“excellent as a means
of giving a class a distinctive stamp”), is
“bound to be unsuited to many children.”
He was as surprised and charmed as Mr.
Griffith by the friendliness, and desire to
talk, explain and be helpful of all the
Russians he met. Why the explanation
didn’t occur to one of his luminous intellect
is a mystery. The same phenomenon used
to be noticed on backblock Australian
stations. The Russians have spent 14 years
as international baekblockers, and they are
no doubt lonely.
Conrlusion
Professor Huxley uses a brilliant phrase
about the Soviet chiefs; he says they are
“putting a question to nature.” A planned
society is only a euphuism for a dominated
society. Why in any country which has
voluntary military service is it so hard, to
get recruits, and why are peace-time sol-
diers—even London’s splendid Guards—
looked down on? Largely because it is not
natural, in normal times, for the unfree to
respect themselves or be respected. The
Soviet Government is asking its people to
agree, not for a few years but for all time,
to work for the State instead of for per-
sonal aggrandisement; to live a community
existence (which may suit some but is un-
bearable to others); to give up their chil-
dren “during the most formative period so
that they may imbibe a tradition of com-
munal life” and a contempt for religion;
to remain in Russia, unless permitted to
make an educative trip as a reward for
useful services to the State, and, generally,
to let their whole lives be standardised
and regimented. Politicians have always
been able to persuade millions to make
sacrifices of the Sort cheerfully on behalf of
causes, good, bad and rotten, for a time;
sometimes, as in the wars of the eighteenth
century, over much greater periods
than Sovietism has lasted. But there is
no record of aiw people having parted with
their liberties on a permanent basis. If
the question which is being put to nature
in Russia is answered in the usual way
there will be a favorable response for as
long as the propagandists can keep the
workers in the frame of mind that patriots
of all races are kept in during national
wars. A reaction in favor of peace—in this
case industrial peace—should then follow. |
if only because no war can be continued
for ever. Sovietism’s prospects of perma-
nent success rest on the assumption that
the Russians are different from any other
'people the world has known, but there is no
evidence ol it. They only seem to differ
from modern Europeans to the extent that,
the amenities of civilisation are newer to
them. They were easy game, if only j
because their cultural standards, as a whole, j
were behind those of fifteenth-century Eng-
land when the Communists took them in
hand.
RED PAGE.
The Fight on the Freelance Front
The depression has at least enabled the
freelance to feel like a landlord—one of
those landlords whose incomes have almost
entirely disappeared. Unfortunately his
satisfaction is offset by the refusal of
butchers and grocers—soulless beings who
harp doggedly on the one word “cash”—to
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—The Foundation of Confidence.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
MOTORISTS!
There is more comfort, more service in these quality
accessories and clothing essentials at famous low prices
•V'-v-
-v
1 w
' ‘"'V
r.
"K.
9^
Wrf*
At*.
p
=?v
t
aSQ*
'<
MOTOR-CAR COVERS
All Covers thoroughly recommended by Anthony Horderns 3
These covers afford protection against dust, sun and' weather. No car complete without one.
Can be used to cover the car in the garage and as a lean-to when outing. Sizes to fit any car.
Car Covers
Calico
12 x 18
19/9
31/-
42/-
Calico
his car. This cloth, although not waterproof, is practically rainproof,
temporary garage. Illustrations show it as a car cover or as a lean-to.
Quality. Sizes, feet 12x15
JX 16/11
AX 26/6
DX 35/6
We can recommend Quality DX Best Tent
Cove
15x18
24/-
38/-
52/-
to the
15x20 15x24
27/- 32/6
43/- 51/-
57/6 69/-
travelling motorist who
18x20
32/6
51/-
69/-
cannot garage
It is used by many owners as a
Duck Car Covers
The measurements of all Car Covers are less seams and hems.
{Carriage, paid on Calico Extra on Duck Covers .)
18x20
57/6
87/-
182/-
CAR BATTERIES
“UNI” SUPER CAR BATTERIES:
Price.
6 Volts, 11 Plate, 82 Amp. Suit
Chevrolet, Ford, etc 37/6
6 Volts, 13 Plate, 98 Amp. Suit
Buick, Overland, Studebaker,
Essex, etc 45/-
6 Volts, 15 Plate, 114 Amp. Suit
Packard, Hudson, Buick Big
Six, Paige, etc 55/-
12 Volts, 7 Plate, 58 Amp. Suit
Standard, Bean, Dodge, 1916-27
Fiat, etc. 75/-
ACCESSORIES
Raino Hand-operated Windshield Wiper.
Price 8/6
Distilled Water, 260 z. bottle, price . . 9d.
Five Minute Vulcaniser, with 12 patches.
Price 4/«
Running Board Tool-box, 22 x 7 x 9 inches.
Price 12/6
Genuine U.S. Tyre Gauge (Balloon type).
Price 8/6
Rear View Mirror, will fit either Tourer or
Sedan. Price 3/-
Spare Tyre Covers, with white piping.
Price 12/6
Spare Wheel Covers, with white piping.
Price . . .' 17/6
Free Delivery City and Suburbs Only.)
(Motor Accessories—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
sdf
sdf
sdf
sdf
°SOSN(/ c
(ohe Ideal Travel Companion
The “Ososnug” Rug is obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’.
Made of all-wool rug niateral, with a lightning zip fastener on
the side. When not in use the “Ososnug” will be found to be
a very useful carrying or storage bag. Available in three
qualities embodying the same features of design.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, each 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
(Travelling Rugs—Ground Floor, George Street. We Pay Carriage.)
WARMER WEAR for
Winter Motoring
„ ••
’’a.
&
Real Hide Coats 84/"
Made from real hides. These coats will
not crack or wear hard.
Tailored into stylish double-breasted Rag-
lans. Lined throughout. Full belt and
buckle. All seams double sewn and
strongly stayed.
Shades: Tan, Dark Tan, Cinnamon Brown
and Nigger. Prices 84/-, 1057-
Super grade Coats. Price .... £6/157-
Super Calf, fui lined. Price .... £7/7/-
( Department —Ground Floor, George Street.
We Pay Carriage.)
Motoring Gauntlets
In Dark Tan Leather 14/6
Men’s Motor Gauntlets. Unlined. In Dark
Tan leather, with strap and dome at 1 wrist.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, pair ........ M/6
Quality Y earling Calf 19/6
Men’s Motor Gauntlets. -Best quality yearling
calf. Unlined! In Dark Tan and Black. Strap
and dome at wrist. Anthony Horderns’ Price,
pair 19/6
Lined Gauntlets, from 21/"
Dark Tan Leather, Wool-lined.
Price, pair 317-
Black Leather, Wool-lined.
Price, pair 32/6
Tan Leather, Wool-lined. Fownes’ make.
Price, pair 32/6
Dark Tan Leather, Fur-lined throughout.
Price, pair 29/6
Tweed Motoring Caps
5/6
Smartly-styled Caps, suitable for Motorists.
In Tweed! Silk-lined with rubber peaks.
Assorted greys or fawns. Anthony Horderns’
Price, each 5/6
Better quality in a wide range of dressy
tweeds. Anthony Horderns’ Price, each .. 7/6
( Mercery—Ground Floor } George Street.
We Pay Carriage .)
Anthony Horderns'
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.


dfgdf
Keep the sunshine
in your Hair
THE ambition of every girl and woman to be possessed of beautiful
hair can be more easily accomplished by the use of Tenax Soap.
It cleanses the scalp, invigorates the tiny glands which nourish the
hair and leaves a silky softness so essential to modern loveliness.
It is also amazing how easily the hair can be set after a shampoo
with Tenax.
TENAX CORRECTS DANDRUFF
Tenax is a genuinely germicidal Toilet Soap. It contains Ti-trol the
powerful Germicide, and as you lather you liberate this antiseptic
which destroys Dandruff organisms—neutralises infection—leaves the
scalp clear and healthy.
A normal healthy scalp is essential to beautiful hair. Without it hair
is thin, scraggy and unattractive.
Tenax is a delightful corrective of all hair and scalp ailments and
is used and endorsed by the Medical Profession.
8L
' n/^
%Ks
J Ayf'
Q
<4)J
/
TENAX
The Germicidal Toilet Soap
AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
Keep Tenax Germicidal Toilet Soap
in your bathroom for daily family
use—it is one of the safest pre-
cautions aqainst germ infection
of every kind.
y 1
S ®4p
¥


HALF
r price
fsdf
55/- Merino Rugs
276
at
MURDOCHS
RED SPOT SALE
The best bargain of the season!
Sensational Half-price Clearance
of Pure Merino Rugs, in an excel-
lent range of overcheck designs,
in Blues, Fawns and Browns. Deep
fringe. Usually 557-
HALF PRICE
Also 21/- All-wool Rugs in over-
check designs for 13/11
“Kaiapoi” Rugs
New Zealand “Kaiapoi” Rugs, pure
merino wool, reversible, extremely
attractive colorings, for
75/-, 84/-, 95/-
sdf
sdf
Murdoch Blankets
Standard-weight Australian-made All-
wool Blankets. Dark or Silver Grey:
Extra Lge.
Superior-quality All-Wool White.
Usually—
-29/6 34/11 44/6 54/-
SPECIAL PRICES—
-26/6 31/6 39/11 48/6
Also Australian-made Hot-water Bags,
at prices ranging from 4/6 to 7/3,
We pay freight.
Write Letters to Desk “R
Murdochs Ltd,
SYDNEY
“STILL RISING IN PUBLIC ESTIMATION "|
adopt the same philosophical attitude
towards nonpayers as landlords do. Even
beer has become a luxury; and one of the
sad tales of this period of distress is that
of the poet who was forced to use his
returned MSS. for cigarette papers. He is
accustomed, however, to seeing his work
end in smoke.
The landlord retains the advantage of
having a house of his own to starve in, a
fact that enables him to die respectably.
So probably the freelance is worse off even
than he is. Publications have been com-
pulsorily compressed by the hard times;
and the compression has squeezed the free-
lance out. He has always been hard put
to it to find openings; now he can’t even
detect cracks.
The freelance field has actually ceased to
exist—as a field, anyway. There remains
only a cramped and insanely over-trodden
back yard.
I would be inclined to agree with the
saying that no door ever shuts but another
opens were it not that more truth seems to
reside in the version that ho door ever
opens but another shuts. As one who, with
comparatively heavy responsibilities to
carry, could not retire, as many have done,
to the calm contentment of the dole, I
have found, in two years of hard struggling,
during which the personal budget had to
suffer continual readjustment—causing the
shillings of to-day to seem like the quids of
yesterday—that just as some new oppor-
tunity appears as a solution to pressing
troubles some staunch prop of the past has
broken.
Man probably obtains the greatest satis-
faction life gives from his hardships—once
they have been satisfactorily weathered.
That is why few men, however battered they
came out of the war, really regret that they
went into it; they have memories of escapes
and adventures to gloat over for the rest
of their lives. I have many such memories.
Coming to a later stage of my career, I can
look back with amusement to the time
when I hawked tennis racquets. They were
all I could get from a small paper that
failed owing me money. So I sold them,
and, having discovered the way, got hold
of more. It helped me through a stiff
period: and I was actually on the point of
going into business as a racquet-hawker (or
racquet-o) when Fate struck me a fresh
blow. The supply of racquets ran out.
Compared with the strange business of
selling racquets, of which I knew nothing,
selling books —my own books—appeared
easy. A providence like the ram in the
thicket for Abraham was next provided by
an acquaintance with an ambition to pose
as a writer. He was prepared to buy re-
jected story MSS. with the right to publish
them as his own; and if there is one article
I have never gone short of it is rejected
MSS.
It has been all rather amusing—looking
back upon it; and the struggles that to
others seem frightful now may be as amus-
ing to look back upon in years to come.
Regarded in the right light there is humor
in a pawned shirt. There are plenty of
these twisted grins about.
Ofie author-friend has taken to the road,
selling his books as he goes. Making a
virtue of necessity, he has decided to walk
right round the continent and then write
a book about it. Another tossed his family
responsibilities and a typewriter on a motor-
truck the other day and is seeking, in
changing scenes, escape from the reproaches
of his creditors and inspiration for para-
graphs wherewith to fill the domestic pot.
I know a genius who painted “The Torch
of the Revolution” in red letters on a
suburban wall, and got a sensational story
about it into a newspaper next day. And
I also know many who have called the war
for a crust a day and gone into winter
quarters on the dole. As above mentioned,
I am not in a position to allow myself this
luxury, so I propose to fight on in the
certain conviction that I’ll get some grins
out of the experience in yeai-s to come—
if I live. Apart from that there is some
satisfaction in being in the fight.
It is a fight all right—this one on the
freelance front.
HAROLD MERCER.
The Palestine “Picnic”
Someone complained in The Bulletin
lately that little justice had been done in
the literature of the Great War to the
campaign, largely a cavalry affair, in Sinai
and Palestine. A notable addition to the
little library devoted to the subject is
Red Dust, by Donald Black (Cape;
Robertson and Mullens; Bs.). “Donald
Black” is a pen-name adopted for the
first edition, the writer’s real label being
J • L. Gray. The book is peculiar by
reason of the impersonal attitude of the
author. He tells convincingly of what he,
has seen and endured. In no case, how-
ever, does he name an individual, a regi-
ment, or any other unit by which he may
be identified. All the same, it is-evident
to those who have trodden the road he fol-
lowed that he was in the second brigade of
the Anzac Mounted Division and in the
sth A.L.H. regiment, a trooper who was, for
most of his time, a Hotchkiss gunner.
Donald Black has nothing to say of Light
Horse work in Gallipoli or Sinai. His
story begins with the third battle of Gaza
and the pursuit of the shattered Turkish
armies by Allenb.y’s mounted troops. His
picture of the debacle of a great military
force, almost entirely composed of infantry
and artillery, vainly endeavoring to with-.
stand the fast-moving mounted troops over-
riding and outflanking them at every
stand is instructive reading for that'modern
school of militarists who maintain that the
day of cavalry has gone.
Perhaps the most valuable part of the
book is that dealing with the horrors of
the Jordan Valley, in which the Anzac
Mounted Division had to spend a summer.
This accursed place, a thousand feet below
sea level, is deserted as uninhabitable in
that season by even the miserable native
inhabitants. It is floored with a poisonous,
knee-deep dust as fine as flour, which infects
every scratch of the skin. Only those who
know it will realise the sufferings of the
men who had to hold the fords of the
Jordan in that Hell’s welter of blinding
heat, flies and malaria. Red Dust, on this
aspect of the campaign, may give-the casual
individual fond of referring to the Light
Horseman as “one of those Palestine pic-
nickers” reason to revise his first impres-
sions.
Interesting, too, are the descriptions of
the mounted raids into the mountains of
Moab, when, after twice occupying Amman
and Es Salt, the Light Horse, unsupported
by artillery but facing plenty of it, twice
miraculously extricated themselves from the
greatly superior forces which had appa-
rently cut them off. “We went up by-the
goat paths and by the goat paths we came
back,” says the writer. And for good
measure there is the yam of how “Bull”
Ryrie joined forces with a Turkish brigade
in the closing stages of the war and helped
his ostensible enemies to hold their redoubt
all night long against the cut-throat Beda-
win of Lawrence’s rag-time army—allies of
Britain. A capital book, which vividly
produces the “romance” of war as Donald
Black saw and thought about it. _
J. B. H.
To Give Hollywood Its Due
M. G. Skipper (R.P. 22/6/’32) objects to
“the art of Hollywood” because it is inter-
national in a different sense from the inter-
nationalism of “great art.”
The Hollywood producer has to consider the pre-
judices and conventions of an entire planet. He
must remember that Japan doesn’t like kisses 100
feet long, that Spain shrinks from divorcees who
marry again, etc.
But the Hollywood producer doesn’t con-
sider, and never has considered, such pre-
judices. I have seen hundreds of screen
kisses which, if not 100 feet long, were more
than long enough to nauseate me who am
no Japanese, and scores of films in which
divorcees married again. Clergymen and
old ladies, who are the most audible enemies
of the Hollywood producer, do not object,
as Mr. Skipper does, that “the poor devil
has no chance of getting his own vision of
life on the screen,” but that he gets it
there all too plainly—in gangster and boot-
legging films, in films which portray big
business, the newspaper world, the ostenta-
tious social life led by some Americans, and
so on. On the authority of the best Ameri-
can critics (Pare Lorentz, for example) films
like “The Front Page” are painfully realistic.
Most of the best-known screen types—
crooks, Wall-street magnates, editors, etc. —
are accepted in the U.S.A. as recognisable
portraits. Yet Mr. Skipper writes:—
Stray from reality and you beget monsters. All
the accepted screen types are monstrous. Take any
of them—the ideal screen mother, for instance.
The screen mother, like the screen Cinder-
ella and many more, derives from melo-
drama. I saw people weeping over the old
lady in London’s Surreyside theatres before
the cinema was thought of. To accuse the
screen of “mongrelism” because some films
perpetuate these traditional absurdities is
equivalent to accusing the English drama
of “mongrelism” because the unreal types
of “The Silver King,” and hundreds of
other plays in that genre, were once
accepted by some British playgoers.
J.D.
And a Little Verse
DIVINITY.
Love is no tree that year by year is firmer
In the soil it grows upon—
Love is a wind that blows upon the water
And after a while is gone.
Love is no moon'that nightly shines and
nightly
Fulfils its promised way—
Love is the spurt of flame above the embers
That lingers and dies away.
If any god is bright in any heaven
Somewhere beyond the mind,
Surely he must have found the love unending
That we can never find.
QUEENSLAND.
PETER MACGREGOR.
SUNDAY.
When plays the band on Sundays in the park
The smart conductor gives a warning tap,
And, louder than dread Cerberus’s bark,
Brave, music cracks the air like thunder-
clap.
Old men are stirred by clamant, martial airs
And women stormed with love’s fortissimo'
While children gasp at syncopated blares
More piercing than the screams that they
forego.
But when the last assault on peace is made
The lights turned off and all departed
ee the * r ® es fco mystic contours fade,
nym! ” la With
S " f ' ' bn”,,!' 11 '' tm * «“ “(ter -grass to
The moon’ draws close the olden rites to
W1 \ml ? eb a from ! ier pedestal slips down
And hands a goblet she has filled to me.
VjlCTOlilA.
ALDMOR.
Answers to Correspondents.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken
of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability
is' undertaken re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
R.W.T.: Awkward last verse; and the
others are mostly the old yearning.... Edwin T.:
An idea in “Victory”; but so self-consciously
poetical... .K.K.: Well done; but alien and unreal.
Euan G.: Efficient and familiar... .D.A.S.: The
meaning is too well hidden....El D.: Commonplace
in a rather neat disguise P.T.S.: What The B.
said was “However important they may be, you
are thinking too much of foreign markets and their
low prices. Forget them for a few minutes, and
give your attention to your home market.” In the
same way The B. might say to itself “Forget for
a moment the sensible people who didn’t mis-
understand you, and concentrate on the one stupid
person who did”... .A.M.W.: One stirring stanza:—
Men are so blind they let loose war on earth
And pandemonium reigns, while fiends find mirth
Because they see dissevered God’s own girth—
Men are so blind!
H.T.G.: Too frail a peg S.K.W.: Do you
dip a pencil in ink to write with? John II.:
Hesitate to encourage you, it’s so desperately wooden.
G.E.W.: A long, long way after Henley....
X.Y.: No buried treasure there N.M.T.: Heavy
going after the first page... .A.E.F.: Story ends with
its head in the sand....S.H.: You take too long to
get going.. . .T.D.: Amateurish.., .J. 5.8.: “The cod
was 311 b., but I made it 40 for th e sake of an
easier rhyme.” Wasted effort! M.M.: Rather too
solemn for our taste Habis: Good parody needs a
lot more work than that..., J.L.S.: Free verse, and
as creaky and obscure as most of that commodity.
...M.McA.: It doesn’t “meet” with our “satisfaction”
when “pronounce” is rhymed with “announce”....
E. :De Groot’s ancient history now. What’s worse,
you can’t rhyme for nuts J.T.8.: Its one merit
is brevity... .Nance W.: Quite well done; but just
lack the kick to get past Wawli: Hardly far
enough away from the stock yam on the subject
J.D.L.: Even being but 18 is hardly sufficient excuse
for verse so bald and wobbly W. 8.: Your “new
recitation” must find some other haven R.V.C.:
Labelling them funny won’t make them so. We
expected something better from Moonta 8.Mc1.:
You’ll have to be more pithy.... Reg V.: Very bad
indeed... .P.C.: Sounds like a negro spiritual—and
an extra-vapid one at that Anon: Hike on, but
not in jolting verse Winiata: Phar Lap poem,
bathetic as most of them, all the way from Africa.
We expect one from Kamschatka yet... .A.WAV.:
Halting verse. Contrast it with the swing of “The
Sick Stockrider” on much the same theme....
Caliban: Laborious as one of Parkes’s sonnets....
D. : Stereotyped openings and disjointed endings.
W.H.: “Ride to hounds at a merry pace,” “Out
to the field with dog and gun”—it sounds much too j
exotic... .J.S.: Has some good lines, but most I
of it rough as bags J.L.: Well, we hope so
F. : No, we can’t even sky it. ...Covot: The
refrain is over-weak W.G.8.: Somewhat obscure.
... .A.G.: Crude.... S.E.L.: Daydream stuff....
L. Sympathetically written, but there’s little
point in the tale C.D.M.: It didn’t thrill
R.A.: Story placed on summit of hill found its
way to bottom of basket W.K.: What a melo-
dramatic lot they must be in your part of the
world!... .J.8.W.: “Green Dog” gets no bone here.
. ...C.M.: Too sketchy.... G.J.: Three duds....
E. : Too long for a short story H.S.G.:
Ending was obvious and trite P.J.N.: An old one.
. ...V.C.: You write as if you were preparing a
sermon... .J.G.; The end is not so bad, but what
goes before is poorly done W.F.T.: “A Lucky
Tenner” isn’t worth a cent E.H.L.: Failed to
stay the distance....E.L.: Conventional... .P.K.P.:
Found James a trifle wearisome... ,G.W.: It’s
drifting back... .E.R.E.: Primitively written....
A.J.L.: Creaks in several places R.R.: Turning
of worm is unconvincingly told E.M.: Nothing
in it K.H.T.: Matter for a par. or two V.G.:
Some editress might fancy it E.W.S.: Lost count of
the misspelt words before we finished the first page.
• ...C.C.F.; Told baldly... .W.D.C.: Neither has
enough meat on it....T.5.: Wearisome dissertation
on subject that’s been done to death P. J. : Tired
of that harrowing sort of tale R.C.D.: You slow
the yarn down by indulging in too many asides....
H.T.: Prince Lee 800 was the Pelew Islander taken
to England by Capt. Wilson after the wreck of the
Antelope; he died in England in 1784. The book
you have in mind is “The Interesting History of
Prince Lee Boo”... .L.T.: There is a trustworthy
account of Boyd’s life in the “Journal of the Royal
Australian Historical Society” (vol. 2) ; an account
of Boyd Town is given in Wells’s “Gazetteer of the
Australian Colonies” (1848). Webster’s “Last Cruise
of the Wanderer” is also useful M.N.: “Bracken”
was written by Bernard Cronin; “Thirty Pieces of
Silver” by Monty Grover.... Delver: Contributors to
those pages (“Other Fellow’s Mind” and “Any Sug-
gestions?”) cannot be given more than about 300
words. Old arguments or suggestions are expunged
to give others a chance. There is always a waiting-
list of others... .Stan W.: But rhyming is not the
soul of poetry, and "hydraulic-frolic,” even though
it were the perfect rhyme, wouldn’t give you a
foothold on Parnassus Tony T.: Hesitated before
putting R.I.P. to your Requiem Jeans: Meaning,
if it ever had any, has got lost in the post
C.G.C.C.: Your flowers have been made into too many
nosegays... .F.W.D.: A fine, fat lump of sentimental
dough Bilgerim: Shows a good feeling for earth
sounds and smells, but the expression is common-
place Mos: 5h00... .A.H.S.: Distinctly not
Ivor N.: A good beginning. Keep on, and let’s
hear from you later M.H.: Technique all right;
matter without distinction... .A.G.S.: You’ve got im-
agination. Carry on 5.8. T.: Only moderate when
it jingles, and pretty dreadful when it jangles.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
V.C.: A lot more could have been made of it....
E. No opening for you in the art world
C.G.1.: A washout F.H.: You will have to do
better. ...D.8.: Figure in bed reminds one of the
wolf who swallowed Red Riding Hood’s grandma..
A.B. and C.G.1.: Stiff... .8.W.: W.p.b. claimed it.
W.J.C.: An eyesore L.T: Dreary dialogue
between a crumpled bolster and a tottering lamp-
post—at least, they look like that C.xV.: That
Hebrew has been pouring kerosene into his fire-
extinguisher for half a century E.H.: A melan-
choly specimen 8.G.: We were not amused
M. : Sort of jest an amiable old man would
inflict on his three-year-old grand-daughter K.S.:
Very careless work H.M.: Couldn’t pass the bald-
head with two right hands L.K.: No sparkle in
any 0 f them F.N. : Humor weak, but drawings
show improvement M.H.K.; A lesson in time
might have saved nine sketches from w.p.b
F. ; A ragged lot L.T.; Apart from making
Binghi look like a cross between a Zulu and a
coon, you haven’t done badly... .G.F.P.; Still trying
to puzzle out the gag about the oyster... .A.M.:
Scratchy,


sdf
i/i
r mn
A
■
\
!«-
w <
/
&
m
&
V
4k
m
mSm
sdf


The Bulletin
Vol. 53. —No. 2733.
June 29, 1932.
ORDERLY-ROOM.
“The Royal Commission into the affairs of Mr. Goode, whom Cleary dismissed from the railway service but whom the Lang Government made chief of all transport,
is in the midst of its inquiry. The Royal Commission into tin-hares and fruit-machines and late Ministers' connection therewith has been openned."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; >.Phone 87971.
Victoria: lli-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, H Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: SG Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months. Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for hoe. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
CAULIFLOWERS, 3d. A DOZEN.
There is no good reason why every em-
ployable man in Australia should not be
at work. At present probably 300,000 per-
sons are idle; but, though some of them
are not getting all to eat that they should
have, none of them are starving. This
means that the community is keeping itself
without getting any assistance at all from
300,000 people. If a man has three sons
and two of them are at work while the other
only turns up at mealtimes, the position
of the family would obviously be better
even if the third son merely went down
to the river and caught a fish now and
then.
We have, however, deliberately made the
position difficult for ourselves. The young
man will not perhaps strike any obstacles
so long as he sticks to fishing; but the
moment he approaches work usually done
by a member of an organised union, he is
up against a difficulty. He must not accept
a job at less than a rate fixed by some tri-
bunal or other, and at that price lie can’t
get it. He turns to other work which he
is qualified to do, and finds the position
just the same there. So he remains on the
dole; that is to say, the rest of the com-
munity keeps him.
Now if the rest of the community keeps
him, it is quite clear that it must be get-
ting a bit more than is necessary to keep
itself; so it would pay the community to
take a bit less if thereby it could get the
unemployed back to work that they might
keep themselves. What, however, those
who are in employment have a right to
consider is whether a reduction of pay
would put the unemployed into work. It
would obviously be bad business to accept
reduced pay in return for being relieved
of having to support the unemployed, and
then find that the unemployed still had to
be supported.
Nobody knows exactly what would hap-
pen if wages were reduced. It is certain
that in S. Aus., where the basic wage has
been cut most severely, the position and
outlook are steadily improving. Also it is
certain that Melbourne has been improving
its position at the expense of Sydney, where
the basic wage has been maintained by a
trick. But the thing cannot be put to a
serious test until the basic-wage machinery
operates again in N. S. Wales. If a cut
in the wages there is followed by a sub-
stantial improvement in the unemployment
figures, the problem will be more than half
solved.
The suggestion that wages may have to
come down is never a pleasant or a popular
one to make. But those who oppose it
because it is neither pleasant nor popular
must take the responsibility of telling us
how otherwise they propose that the un-
employed shall be set to work. Mr. Lang
admitted that responsibility. He would not
take the risk of reducing wages as a means
of removing unemployment; and the only
alternative he could find was —what? Put-
ting a tax of Is. in the £ on the wages of
those in work, accompanied by a scheme
for dipping into the savings of the people.
It was thus merely a scheme for maintaining
a fictitious rate of wages—fictitious because
5 per cent, of what the employer paid was
to be taken by the State—and it discour-
aged every form of new employment.
“High wages mean prosperity,” those say
who oppose wage reductions; “the more
money in circulation the better.” Quite
true —the more money in circulation the
better, provided it has been earned. But
high wages do not necessarily mean much
money in circulation. If the wages are too
high, money may absolutely cease to cir-
culate. Fortunately in our case we can
tell pretty well when wages are too high.
This is not an entirely self-contained coun-
try; and moreover in order allegedly to
hurry up development we have borrowed
abroad about 500 millions. For many years
we took very little interest in our second-
ary industries; the Labor party in N. S.
Wales, for example, refused to put protec-
tion on its platform. The result is that to-
day we are still dependent on overseas
countries for many of our necessaries. We
are also pledged to pay 30 millions a year
interest on money borrowed mainly to
cany out the Labor policy of public owner-
ship of public utilities. Export of goods
to pay for these necessaries and this in-
terest is therefore incumbent on us; and
the prices we get for the things we have to
sell are fixed by competition in foreign
markets. Our wages must, then, be gov-
erned by the prices we can get for those
goods.
Now, how have those prices behaved?
If we turn to the price index of the N. S.
Wales Statistician we shall find that, tak-
ing the average price in 1911 as 100, wool
in 1929 averaged 162, but in 1931 only 104.
That is to say, the price of wool fell 36
p.c. between 1929 and 1931—averages for
both years. Wheat fell just 50 p.c. But
non-rural commodities fell less than 1 p.c.
—from 181 to 180. To the primary pro-
ducer this means that, while the Austra-
lian wool- and wheat-growers can get over-
seas an average of, say, 12s. for what would
bring them 20s. in 1929, they have to pay
19s. lid. for the commodities for which
they paid 20s. in 1929. How can the farmer
carry on under such conditions? Yet if
the farmer does not carry on, we simply
can neither buy any imported necessaries
nor pay our overseas interest.
The whole explanation of our difficulties
is that we have got lopsided. We have
more or less maintained the prices of goods
produced in the cities, these being governed
by local wages, while the prices of goods
produced in the country, being governed by
world markets, have crashed. The primary
producer, being paid on the low scale, can-
not afford to buy the goods produced on
the high scale; therefore city goods and
services are in comparatively poor demand,
and they cannot be anything else till the
primary producers are able to buy them.
We cannot put the farmers’ prices up; the
only alternative is to bring the other prices
down. •
The great unions of workers of Australia
are in very much’ the same position as the
United States. Uncle Sam owned half the
monetary gold of the world, and all the
other nations were heavily indebted to him.
At the same time he had a high Customs
tariff. His debtors wanted to pay him.
“We have no gold,” thejr said, “you must
take goods.” “We don’t want your goods,”
he said—“we won’t have them.” “Then,”
they said, “you simply can’t be paid.” The
Australian primary producers say to the
unions, “Our earnings have fallen by about
one-half. You must reduce yours to cor-
respond.” “No,” say the great unions, “we
have fought for and won a high standard
of pay and hours, and we won’t lower it.”
“Then,” the primary producers reply, “we
simply can’t buy your goods and services.”
Uncle Sam begins to realise that he is no
better off for all his gold and for all his
foreign debts. He has 12 millions unem-
ployed. The workers of Australia are no
better off for their high standard either.
They can have the standard, but so long as
it is out of harmony with world prices, at
which our export products have to be sold,
they cannot have the work. A high stand-
ard of wages and hours, instead of being a
blessing, can be a curse.
Cauliflowers were sold in the wholesale
markets this month at 3d. per dozen. Three-
pence per dozen! Why? Work could not
be got in the secondary industries of the
cities because the primary producers could
not afford their prices. Men thus thrown
out of work turned to the primary indus-
tries, and found that even a bare living
was almost impossible for a beginner in
wheat or wool or cattle. Thus shut out of
the great industries, thousands of men have
dug up a few square yards of ground and
planted vegetables in the hope of getting
some food for themselves and families, and
probably a little money to add to the dole.
For cauliflowers, the crop of the moment,
they get threepence a dozen! For peas the
other _ day they got a shilling a bushel!
That is the price they pay for the mainten-
ance of wage standards which are out of
harmony with the markets of the world in
which our primary products have to be
sold. The position is almost beyond bear-
ing even with good seasons; and we have
had such a run of good fortune that a bad
year or two are as certain as anything in
this world can be. We ought to make veiy
earnest preparations for that turn of the
tide, and we ought to make them now.
Of course it will be at once said that we
are asking more sacrifices from the work-
ing man. It is not true—a thousand times
it is not true. The Bulletin is only con-
cerned about putting an end to the appal-
ling sacrifices which the unemployed and
the half-employed are making—especially
the battlers who try to do something for
themselves and have to sell cauliflowers for
3d. a dozen.
WRITING DOWN DEBTS.
Dear Bulletin, —Like thousands of other farmers
I could not help feeling that the N. S. Wales man
Lang was right in his attack on the banks and
other financial institutions, which are squeezing the
lifa out of us. Yet I hate ta think contracts should
not be respected; and Lang “put his pot on” so
far as most landowners are concerned when he
scoffed at the “written contract,” whether it is
mortgage or anything else. Can you help me—and I
suppose there are many like me—to see daylight
through this complicated business?— A Mallee
Farmer, Hopetoun (Vic.).
Well, what actually happened? Prices were
high, and tales were told of men who had
paid for their wheat farms in two years;
sheepmen were credited with making as
much as 255. a head in a year. It may
be that the banks and other moneylenders
were partly responsible for the high prices
which men paid for land after hearing
these stories; but if ever a public meeting
was held anywhere to protest against the
ease with which advances could be got
The Bulletin had no notice of it. There
was, in fact, only one audible complaint
about the banks of Australia during 1921-29
—they were refusing to give enough help
to men to get on to the land; and almost
every State Government was cajoled into
doing more than the banks were willing to
do. So this paper repeats what it has said
a dozen times or more—that this country
owes the banks a debt of gratitude for
keeping their heads in the years of hard
borrowing, and repressing that furious land
boom which might so easily have been
promoted and which thousands were eagerly
striving for. Yet, as things turned out, the
banks compromised far tOo much on the
side of liberality, and made advances which
never should have been made. A crash in
Australia was easy enough to foresee; the
world crash it is doubtful whether anybody
fully foresaw.
The question is who ought to pay for
it all. Ordinarily, of course, there is no
uncertainty about the relative positions of
mortgagor and mortgagee. Here is a man
who has £2OO and wants to buy with it a
property worth £2OOO. He raises £lBOO on
mortgage. If the property increases in
value to, say, £2300, he sells it, pays off the
£lBOO and pockets the £5OO. He has made
a profit of 150 p.c. Not a penny of that
belongs to the mortgagee; no. accretions or
bonuses are due to him. The most he can
expect to get back is the amount he
advanced. The mortgagor may thus make
a fortune out of a boom; the mortgagee
makes nothing. When a slump comes
there is, nevertheless, a widespread demand
that the mortgagee shall suffer—the man
who accepted a low rate of interest and
renounced all hope of accretions in return
for safety of principal. On the face of it
that looks entirely wrong.
The point around which discussion must
turn is whether there is anything in pre-
sent circumstances to call for or justify
exceptional treatment. Has anything hap-
pened to entitle us to tear up a scrap of
paper? Should the “written contract” be
adhered to at all times and in all places?
The letter of a contract is less to honor-
able men than the spirit of it. The mone-
tary system of the world, most people will
admit, has failed badly. Index figures
show that our export commodities, after
doubling in price in a few years, as sud-
denly toppled; and last year wheat was
worth only 14s. in the £ of what it was in
1911 and 10s. in the £ of what it was in
1928-29. The London “Economist” takes
the British average wholesale prices for
1927 as a basis (=100). In the intervening
period the textile group has fallen as low
as 41, food products to 57, and the complete
index stood at 59 on June 15. In other
words, prices on the average have fallen
very nearly one-half, and in some indus-
tries more than one-half, in five years.
There might be great changes in the prices
of a few commodities due to special cir-
cumstances; when this terrific fall happens
to commodities in general it is certain that
it is our standard of value which has gone
wrong.
As we have, seen, the long-term lender
accepts a low rate of interest because, as
hie asserts, he wants as near absolute secu-
rity as he can get: he doesn’t look for any
bonuses or capital accretions; he just wants
an assured income of a certain size and
the return of just as much money as he
lent, no more and no less. But, so long as
money is worth twice as much at one time
as it is at another, obviously a fixed rate
will not give him always an income of the
same value, nor if he is paid back exactly
what he lent will he receive money always
of the same value. The farmer who bor-
rowed in 1928-29 did it on the assumption
that, say, four bushels would pay £1 of
principal debt or interest; in 1931 he had
to pay on an average eight bushels. And it
can be looked at from the other side. The
lender, who said he wanted no accretions
or bonuses, wherefore he sought mortgages
instead of shares, was content with four
bushels; to-day he gets eight bushels. He
may hold the mortgagor to his contract
and collect the eight bushels; but though
the letter of it upholds him, it is gravely
doubtful whether the spirit does.
Some of the best brains available are
turned to this problem of stable money.
On all hands it is admitted that a money
system tied to a metal susceptible of such
vicissitudes as gold is no longer practicable.
The economists and statesmen of the world
are seeking a plan by which the price level
can be lifted; and that means neither more
nor less than reducing all debts and all
fixed money payments. So far as The
Bulletin knows, nobody suggests that this
is immoral or dishonest; on the contrary,
there is a very strong feeling that, for a
creditor to take advantage of the break-
down in our money system to demand pay-
ment of a sum which has a much greater
purchasing power than when the loan was
made, calls for a good deal of justifying.
But there is a better way of tackling the
problem than by direct reduction of debts,
and that is through the general raising of
prices. On present appearances that will
come through international action within
the next year or two; and if the moratorium
is extended for three years, as the Stevens
Government proposes in N. S. Wales,
present mortgagors and similar debtors will
be pretty fully shielded.
OUR LITTLE NEROS.
So that the State basic wage of N. S.
Wales might be kept at £4 2s. 6d. a week.
plus family endowment (ss. a week for each
child after the first) and workers’-compen-
sation insurance, two members of the late
Industrial Commission, a Deputy Commis-
sioner and certain chairmen of conciliation
committees were paid for nine months for
doing nothing. But the machinery for in-
creasing wages was allowed to go on work-
ing. One of the many conciliation commit-
tees, the members of which all receive fees,
is inquiring into the grievances of Govern-
ment railwaymen, who, by order of the
Lang Government, had four hours knocked
off their working week, a boon which con-
tributed to railway expenditure exceeding
railway revenue last year by just on 41-
millions. The secretary of an anti-Red
union attended the other day to say that
his concern was interested in the case, and
had a right to be joined as a party, but had
been ignored. It was explained with some
heat that if he persisted with his objection
the proceedings would have to be begun
all. over again, and that would mean an-
other eight months of taking evidence, run-
ning to 2000 or 3000 pages; so he agreed
to come in at that point and let the 2000
or 3000 pages of evidence stand. It was
alleged by persons like Mr. Badly, as an
argument for the creation of these concilia-
tion committees, that they would be com-
posed of “practical men,” and that the pro-
cedure would be almost as simple and ex-
peditious as falling off a log.
Another conciliation committee gave an
award last week in the case of the State
lottery employees, now collected in a de-
partment of their own. The award pro-
vides for the 44-hour week, with 45 minutes
for the midday meal; overtime at the rate
of time and a half is to be paid after the
44th hour, and there are to be annual holi-
days and sick leave on full pay —24 days
after one year’s service (which most of the
employees have rendered), and 42 after two
years. And the pay for the 42 days is to
be for “full working days”—none of your
Saturdays or Sundays. Accountants are to
get £550 a year, rising to £600; mail super-
intendents, £5OO, rising to £550; ticket
writers and listing clerks, £6 ss. to £6 15s.
a week; change clerks, £5 15s. to £6; “bulk”
clerks, £5 10s. to £5 155.; other clerks, £5
to £7. An office girl is to receive £1 ss.
a week the first year, a machine operator
£1 155., ticket writers £2 6s. to £3, ticket-
sellers £3 10s. and £3 155., a “special female
assistant” £4 and “secretary to director
(female)” £248 a year. Every Minister has
his private secretary, so the lottery director
must be in the fashion. To these salaries,
for men and girls alike, annual increments are
to be added, and it is confidently expected
that before long they will be all qualifying
for superannuation benefits, like the 50,000
railwaymen and tramwaymen, and the
30,000 civil servants, largely at the tax-
payers’ expense. These benefits have cost
the taxpayer as much as three-quarters of
a million in a year, and at the rate Mr.
Goode’s Transport Commission has been
putting off railwaymen, whom it reckons
too old at 60, and whose superannuation
fund long ago became insolvent, the tax-
payer may be called upon to dig in his
pockets for a million, especially if the pre-
sent Government does as Mr. Lang did.
Declaring that the civil-service superannua-
tion fund had been “starved,” Mr. Lang
paid nearly £700,000 of tax-revenue into it
in one year.
While these triumphs of the wage-fixing
business were being celebrated, a represen-
tative grazier made some startling remarks
on the state of Australia’s greatest indus-
try. He said:—
The wool industry is on the point of collapse.
It costs an average of lid. to produce a pound of
greasy wool. The average price at all the sales
held in May was 64d. a pound; the average of all
wool sold this season to date, including all the
best wools, was 81d. a pound. Railway rates, shear-
ing and selling charges amount to 3d. a pound.
Land tax takes £3 to £5 a bale. Ocean freights
have been increased because empty ships are coming
to Australia; the increase is from fd. to lfd. a
pound. No interest is being earned, and capital is
stagnant, and so far from getting anything for their
labor, growers are losing £2,000,000 to £5,000,000
a year. What we must do, and do quickly, is to
check the drift by reducing costs, otherwise the
industry will go under. And it will drag every
other industry down with it.
One way of showing that Governments
are determined to cut costs —to the end,
among others, that the employee may get
more for £3 and the old-age pensioner
more for 15s. than they could for £4 2s. 6d.
and £1 respectively a while ago—would be
to put a legislative ban on the hearing by
wage-fixing tribunals of applications for
higher pay and shorter hours until w'ool and
wheat prices become payable again. That
done, there should be an immediate reduc-
tion of railway freight rates and fares; a
ruthless abolition of all ornamental Gov-
ernment jobs (the Stevens Administration
has made a good start by recalling the
superfluous Agent-General); a survey of all
social-service expenditure, designed to do
away with all duplication and punish
fraud; a return to 1914 rates of Ministerial
and Parliamentary pay, and the abolition
of the fraudulent and crippling Federal
land tax which was to “burst the big
estates,” and is helping to burst owners of
big and small estates alike.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mr. Lyons’s Job.
Now that Lang and his celebrated Plan to
Scale are off the map, it is high time that
Mr. Lyons took off his coat and buckled
down seriously to the business of easing
the intolerable load of Federal taxation.
This is his essential job. He was returned
to do it, and it can be done in only one
way, that is by pruning off every unneces-
sary penny of Commonwealth expenditure.
So far he has produced nothing except ges-
tures, chessplay with a few better-paid offi-
cers of his vast, redundant and overlapping
public service, solos on his own trumpet
concerning the prospects of balancing the
Budget. The same old waste goes on in
the public service: Canberra allowances,
district allowances, higher-duty allowances,
officers awaiting (on full pay) suitable
vacancies, child endowment, automatic in-
crements to thousands of unnecessary clerks
appointed in the days when the golden flood
of loan money was flowing to placate poli-
tical supporters.
No serious attempt is made to reappraise
services on a basis of actual work-value, to
reduce staffs—the Taxation Department
was given 170 new officers during the cur-
rent financial year—or to deal with the
pernicious and inequitable assumption that
every appointee to the public service has
the right to be supported for life by the
taxpayer without contributing anything to-
wards the common burden. The service
unions show their teeth openly, denouncing
the Premiers’ Plan and other essential fea-
tures of the policy of Mr. Lyons’s Govern-
ment, but nothing is done to curb the
dangerous rebels who act as the union
spokesmen whilst living on the same tax-
payers whose interests they oppose and
denounce.
Outside the service the millions flow out
merrily enough for old-age pensions, invalid
pensions, repatriation pensions, maternity
bonus and the rest. Now and then a
shocked press announces that someone has
got away with a pension he did not deserve,
and the trumpet is blown in praise of the
lynx-eyed officials who watch over the
public interest. It is common knowledge,
especially in country districts, that a sub-
stantial proportion of pensions are drawn
on a fraudulent basis. The casual Austra-
lian only laughs, and reckons that they are
smart to make a bit out of the Govern-
ment. Old Bill makes over the farm on
an arranged mortgage to Young Bill, and
gets Buggins, M.P., to fix up the pension
for him and the old woman. Young Bill
supplements it on the quiet, as the old
man’s cut on the farm, Buggins gets the
family vote, and everyone lives happily
ever after. There are a dozen other ways.
Mr. Lyons is an experienced politician,
well versed in every trick of both parties.
Apart from the noble sentiments and gen-
eral eyewash which he is expected to pro-
vide for public consumption, he must know
well that these things go on, to the detri-
ment of the taxpayers who returned him to
office with orders to lighten the load as
much and as quickly as possible. He has
had ample time to make a beginning; he
has ample opportunity to his hand to save
the country millions of pounds without
creating a single case of unemployment.
There is only one way in which he can
ease the cruel load of taxation which his
Government imposes on Australia; that is,
to spend less. Mere budget-balancing is
beside the point—the budget itself is far
too extravagant, far too full, of items which
the country would be better without, mor-
ally and ethically, as well as financially.
The Ottawa Conference.
Last week a Pilgrim Band of delegates
left Australia for Ottawa, in Canada, where
another conference is to be held. So little
definite good has come from modern confer-
ences and so much definite harm that The
Bulletin views the approaching one with-
out enthusiasm and with some apprehen-
sion.
During the past few years civilisation has
been overloaded with politicians and
bureaucrats; and the world has good reason
to suspect that conferences are designed
mainly for the purpose of glorifying this
new aristocracy and fastening them a little
more firmly upon the backs of the people.
Not the least of the curses which the war
brought us was the knowledge of how easy
it is to multiply departments, and how
patient the public is under the burden
which they represent. Some sort of a case
always can be made out for the new
growths; and the gentlemen who conceived
the idea of the Ottawa Conference had
even better material than usual. Just as
it is easier to “get away with” a crime com-
mitted in the name of patriotism than with
any other, so is it easier to get away with
a great plundering of the public in the same
name. Thus far nothing has been done
in connection with Ottawa but to beat the
big drum. The multitudinous speeches
have been full of fine platitudes; and none
have been more platitudinous than those of
Mr. Bruce, the delegation’s leader.
The general idea seems to be that the
Empire ought to be more of an industrial
trading entity: that the paddock which can
best grow wheat should be kept for wheat,
and the ideal turnip patch kept for turnips.
There is a school which believes that, in
pursuance of this idea, the Empire’s manu-
facturing ought to be done in Britain, with
“the colonies” growing Britain’s raw mate-
rial and food. The idea will, of course, not
be put so bluntly to the Conference. Brit-
ain has ceased to be a Freetrade country,
and, as more than one of her spokesmen
have lately told us, has now something to
bargain with; She may, therefore, offer cer-
tain of our raw materials more or less
easy access to her markets in exchange for
more or less easy access to our markets for
certain of her manufactured products. Here
the Australian foreign-trader sees an oppor-
tunity which he has not had for years; an
opportunity to represent patriotism—the
Empire—as calling for the modification of
our Protectionist policy. And it is our mis-
fortune that Labor has been so grievously
misled in Australia that we cannot make
an effective reply. We must export largely
to pay our foreign debts; and the only
things we can export are raw products,
which we have to sell at world prices. But
we have refused, to a great extent, to cut
our industrial costs to correspond with the
reduced prices of our exports, with the
result that, in the words of the N.S.W.
Statistician, “the marked disparity between
the relative price levels of the principal rural
products and the non-rural group has been
a prominent feature of price movements
since the early part of 1930.” In short, the
rural producer gets for his goods one-half
or thereabouts of what he got in 1929, but
he has to pay practically the same as he
did in 1929 for the mostly-manufactured
Australian goods he has to buy.
No doubt something will come out of
the Conference: the politicians and bureau-
crats are far too good showmen not to
produce something. Australia will have to
watch the proceedings closely to see that,
in order to produce this something, too
much is not given away. Meantime, the
Government ought to be told very plainly
that the delegation, absurdly cumbersome
and pretentious, gives further uncomfort-
able proof that Ministers have not yet
begun to understand what that economy is
which is required of them.
♦
The Aeroplane in Modern War.
“Carisbrook, Jun.,” from Shanghai:—
“Ribemont” (B. 9/3/ 5 3 2) errs in saying that
bombing from the air in the recent Sino-Japanese
conflict at Shanghai played no bigger pavt than it
did at the end of 1918. Without their aeroplanes
the Japanese forces would have been annihilated by
the overwhelming mass of Chinese troops. Whatever
the merits or demerits of the Japanese oifensive
may be, there is no gainsaying the fact that until
Chapei was levelled the Japanese forces could not
hope to conquer their opponents, ill-equipped as the
latter were. Chapei was systematically bombed
from morning to night until it was reduced to a
shambles. The country was riddled by Chinese
underground mines, death traps to the unwary
Japs. Tanks were useless, artillery could not be
used to any great extent because of the danger to
the International Settlement, and bayonet charges
were met with withering fire from concealed machine-
gun nests, against which the pick of the Japanese
forces hurled themselves fruitlessly. There was
only one thing left for the Japanese forces to do
and they did it. They retired from the field, and
left the fighting to their aeroplanes, which rained
death on the demoralised Chinese day after day until
they could stand it no longer. During the aerial
offensive the total Japanese casualties were six!
The losses sustained by the Chinese will never be
computed—they were enormous. The Chinese forces
were beaten by the fact that they had no effective
reply to the Japanese offensive in the air.
Let “Ribemont” rid his mind of the idea that
because the Japs did not use gas in their offensive
at Shanghai they wouldn’t use it if they had their
backs to the wall. The Shanghai offensive was only
a minor engagement; had the dispute broken out
into a world-wide conflagration there would have
been a different tale to tell to-day. Japan, for a
multitude of reasons, did not even contemplate the
use of gas. Only two need be mentioned: the
desire not to agitate world-wide opinion, and the
danger to the International Settlement.
In Shanghai we only had the same war as the
Diggers experienced in 1914-18 until the Japs found
that, better armed and efficient as they were, they
could not defeat an army 10 times their strength.
But when they brought their aeroplanes into use,
not all the overwhelming numbers of the Chinese
army could withstand the deadly rain of death from
the air. One must see Chapei and Woosung to
comprehend just how much the Japanese aerial
offensive must have demoralised the Chinese forces.
The Chinese army, at the time of writing, is still
within 20 miles of Shanghai, but the Japs, secure
in the knowledge that they have their aerial fleet
as protection, have withdrawn practically all their
troops from the war zone.
The Smith Problem.
Even with a working majority of four the
Forgan Smith Government in Queensland has
a bleak task before it. The niceness of Mr.
Moore, as displayed by his failure to squash
insubordinate supporters and reconstitute
the Leg. Council, has, of course, left his
successors an unlimited advantage in the
field of State taxation. The chief item
of the Smith policy, as announced so far,
is a “drive to restore prosperity.” In terms
of practical politics, this may be taken as
meaning a strenuous attempt to keep the
civil-service unions sweet by relieving their
members of the irksome duty of sharing
in the common burden of financial loss, and
to bring back the golden age of job-control
and liberal awards. For both of these
money is essential in large amounts. To
obtain it Mr. Smith will have to accept
the Premiers’ plan—in which case he will
instantly be banned as a heretic by the
most powerful of the influences which have
Put him in office—or he will have to con-
sider State taxation carried to limits be-
those of Langism at its worst.
lr. Smith is not a Lang in his capa-
city for ruthless control of his colleagues,
among wffiom there was some wild talk
during the election—not the least wild
that of his chief lieutenant, Mr. Pease
vrnii° U v h se , ve r al of, the young lions kept
' m . their revelations of what
was to happen to the rich banks and com-
panics who are grinding the face of the
worker for the profit of the capitalist. Mr.
Forgan Smith may be depended on to see,
as clearly as anyone, that this sort of rant,
put into practice, is exactly what brought
N. S. Wales to disaster and Australia to
the brink of ruin; and on his powers of
keeping his party in hand will depend
whether or no Queensland is to be forced
on to the same perilous path.
♦
Australian Wines.
A couple of decades ago veiy nearly all
the dinner and dessert wines drunk in
Britain came from France and Portugal.
Those countries supplied, too, practically
the only wines drunk by the rich in Aus-
tralia. Guests at Government House balls
and the like would have felt wounded in
their tenderest susceptibilities if they had
been offered Australian champagne; and no
Australian wines were stocked by the lead-
ing clubs. Time, science and local enter-
prise have changed all that. French cham-
pagnes and clarets and imported ports are
rarely seen on an Australian table nowa-
days, and Australia is selling Britain three
times as much wine as France is. Last
March—the latest month for which figures
are available—Britain imported 390,137 gal-
lons from the Commonwealth as against
120,908 from France. Australian wines are
given special counters at Selfridge’s, Har-
rod’s, the Haymarket Stores and similar
big establishments, they sell freely at the
city bodegas, and the longer they are before
the public the more popular they become.
Imperial patriotism lias very little to do
with it, as is indicated by the huge quanti-
ties of wheat, etc., that Britain has bought
from Russia of late. Our wines are scor-
ing on their merits.
If anyone had said as recently as 10
years ago in Australia what thousands of
sound judges have been saying for much
longer than that in the U.K.—namely, that
much of the wine exported from France is
chemicalised rubbish—he would have been
accused of Philistinism by those who believe
that whatever is Continental is best. Yet
the whole world has been coming round to
that view since the war. In 1913 the French
exported 36,564,000 gallons; last year they
exported only a little over 18,000,000, and
the consumption of all but vintage wines
has decreased in France by about 25 litres
per consumer per annum. It is a great
chance for Australia, whose wines, both
light and heavy, have improved out of
sight since the war, and should go on
improving provided the industry has the
right support and control. The area on
which it is possible to grow wine grapes of
a high quality has hardly been scratched
so far. Taking one thing with another, it
is possible to envisage a day when wine
may be worth more to this country than
wheat. It is one of the few commodities
that will always be in demand and can
never be synthetised.
Small Sistei* Murmurs, “Et Tu, Joe!”
Ip the language of Tas. Parliament during
the week is any criterion, Small Sister is
sorry she ever discovered Joseph Aloysius
Lyons; and last month’s idol is this month’s
cock-shy. Acting-Premier-Treasurer Lee,
finding his revenue down £400,000 and his
expenditure up £300,000, and with an out-
size in deficits staring him in the face
despite extra taxation and flea-skinning eco-
nomies, applied to the Commonwealth for
aid in his extremity. But, instead of an
expected £200,000 or thereabouts, all Lyons
would spring was a wholly inadequate
£50.000, though he could find £1.000.000 for
South Aus. And the Prime Minister ex-
plained that even this £50,000 was to be
regarded as a temporary advance to relieve
the small State’s admittedly shocking bud-
getavy position, and not as a grant in aid
of Tasmania’s “alleged” disabilities under
Federation. The “alleged” was the last
straw; it enraged all Small Sister’s political
parties, and the air was thick with paper
reports of Lyons’s election speeches and his
various “Case for Tasmania” pamphlets
urging some £500,000 a year as the mini-
mum the Commonwealth should pay Tas.
on account of those same disabilities.
Eventually Parliament resolved to send
Acting-Premier Lee and Opposition-Leader
Ogilvie (perhaps) to Canberra to ask the
Prime Minister for an explanation. The 11
Federal members were also co-opted for
the mission. What will happen if the Prime
Minister won’t listen nobody can tell. But
Small Sister is seething with something or
other; perhaps indignation, possibly hope.
New Guinea and the U.S.A.
Professor Mackay, of Rangoon University,
who recently visited Melbourne, called
attention there to the refusal of the U.S.A.
to recognise the Australian mandate over
New Guinea, though the one held by Japan
over the Carolines had been accepted.
The professor warned Australians that, if the
economic development of New Guinea
assumed complications”
might arise between the U.S.A. and this
country.
America’s ostensible objection to the Aus-
tralian mandate is that it permits the man-
datory power to impose a policy of “eco-
nomic exclusiveness.” America considers
this violates the principle underlying the
mandatory system—that mandates must
be held as a sacred trust for civilisation.
Another objection put forward is that the
complainant was not consulted as to the
terms of the mandate. But surely if
America was not consulted, this was
entirely due to its own action in declin-
mg to become a party to the League and
undertake the responsibility of mandates.
Though the complaint of “economic, ex-
clusiveness” also falls curiously from the
lips of a nation; which has shut out trade
and immigration from other lauds by the
strongest tariff barriers and the most rigid
immigration laws, there is little doubt that
Professor Mackay is justified in his appre-
hension that the discovery of gold and oil
—especially the latter—in large quantities
may urge America to revive its objections
to the mandate. At present the exclusive-
ness is nominal. American goods are sub-
ject to tariff, but so are those of other
countries; and American ships ply freely
between New Guinea and the United States.
The real flies in the ointment are prob-
ably the Ordinances issued ordaining that
no company may be formed to operate in
New Guinea unless two-thirds of the shares
are held by or for British subjects. Since
New Guinea now promises to become a
gold-producer on a large scale, and since
the possibility of extensive oil deposits in
the Territory is seriously regarded by ex-
perts, it must be admitted that the prospect
of being debarred from having a finger in
such a pie may be displeasing to the great
financial interests of the United States.
No such cause of friction ought to be
permitted to exist. Steps ought to be taken
to have the position clarified.
+.
“What’s Wrong with Australia?”
From an Australian in New Guinea: —
My answer, as a self-exiled Australian, is "the
Australians.” Some time ago a number of them
were brought here by a certain co. on two-year
contracts at the average wage of £7 per week
and found, fares one way paid. The item “found”
costs the co. £ls per month per man. It means:
Bed and bedding; house and lighting; meals (three-
course, with ice-cream) ; morning and afternoon teg;
medical attention by qualified man; medicines,
including quinine; soap and matches; Chinese cooks
and sundry native servants to wash clothes, clean
houses, wait on tables and carry out the empty
bottles. We are cut off from the outside world, but
have a daily aeroplane service for transport. We get
news from the world daily by radio. We have a big
recreation hall (built by the co. at its expense). We
don’t have to work in the rain and we have native
labor to do the lifting and the dirty work. We do not
have to work when not feeling well, but get paid
"sick or well.” Some of us were advanced money
on our first month’s wages to send to our wives and
families. About 80 per cent, of us were on the
dole before we were employed by this bloodsucking
company.
Are we satisfied? Could we be otherwise, do you
think? Alter the dole? I am ashamed to say,
we arc not satisfied. Let the potato supply run
out for a day and serve us with the local sweet-
potato; let us be served with tinned meat or local
game instead of the best cuts of fresh (frozen)
meats; let ns be asked to do a few minutes’ work
after "knock off” time (we may not have worked
at all yesterday on account of rain ot disinclination
to work, known here as "fever”); let us eat
biscuits for a few days instead of bread; let one
of us get a little more consideration from our
employers than another, through concientions
attention to the job—let any of these things happen
and then listen to our howls! No—we didn’t
come here to be fed like Kanakas. (This generally
refers to the sweet-potatoes—same article is sold in
Sydney markets at £4 a ton.) We didn’t come here
to eat “emu and crow” (cassowary steaks and
pigeon pies) ; if we don’t get bread we’ll stop work
till we do get it; if we have to work after "knock
off,” we want time and a half for it (certainly we
had a holiday and got paid for it yesterday, but
what has that to do with it?).
This is not just a "knock” at the country, but
a plain statement of facts. They are not just a
few remarks culled from a few discontented red-
raggers, but are heard in general conversation
wherever the men congregate.
What is wrong with Australia? That’s what's
wrong with Australia.
♦
War and Trade.
Melbourne has just launched another anti-
war association, and The Bulletin wishes
it well, regarding war as the world’s great-
est horror. But there seems something
wrong with these associations. This one, as
usual, passed resolutions demanding, among
other things, that the Federal Government
should prevent the dispatch of war
materials to China. Millions of such resolu-
tions have been passed without causing
Beelzebub Mars the slightest inconveni-
ence. But if the Federal Government had
been asked to take steps to prevent the
dispatch of commercial goods to China,
the meeting would have shown that it had
a suspicion of one of the prime causes of
international belligerency.
The position to-day is that a faulty
adjustment between purchasing power and
production in every country automatically
causes a surplus of goods which cannot
be absorbed internally. The alternative
is to sell the surplus abroad. But all
other countries are in the same predica-
ment, so we get the spectacle of every
country trying to sell more to other coun-
tries than other countries sell to it. All
are trying to perform this miracle, and if
all succeeded there would be a world sur-
plus concentrated somewhere that could
only be disposed of to another planet.
What is actually happening is that the
powerful countries with surpluses are trying
to force the weaker countries to accept
the unequal trade relation. A conspicu-
ously weak country is China, and that is
why China is the most dangerous present
storm-centre. Japan saw the opportunity
and got in before the other powers by
seizing the potentially enormous market
of Manchuria. In Japan, therefore, Beelze-
bub Mars is to-day regarded not as a devil
but as an angel. He means industry in
motion and employment.
The anti-war societies won’t frighten
powerful nations into peace while it is a
case of sell abroad or starve at home.


In Craven “A” I always find what I expect
... that extra touch of Quality
CRAVEN "A”
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years’ Reputation for Quality
Mi#
.
POLITICAL
POINTS
So far as the wool-man is concerned May
figures (as prepared by the N.S.W. Statisti-
cian) were worse than ever. For what the
wool-man got £162 in 1929 (average for
the year) he got £B7 in May, and that was
a shade worse than the figure for any month
last year ( it was down to £BB in August and
September). But the non-rural commodi-
ties which on the average cost £lB4 in 1929
still cost £l7B in May. This means that
what the woolgrower has to sell has fallen
46 per cent, and what he has to buy has
fallen only 3 per cent.
Queensland gets more kicks from the
other States than it earns. Last year it
bought from them goods of Australian pro-
duction valued at £11,332,617, and all it
sent them of its own production was valued
at £9,314,658. And two-thirds of that was
sugar. Queensland is thus a fine customer
for other States’ goods, while most of its
own don’t compete with those of the States
which import them.
Premier Mitchell has half-decided to sell
some of Westralia’s Government enterprises.
His State has been running factories for
20 years, and has lost £1,384,074, besides
taxes. And it has paid for the tomfoolery
in other ways, for the public-service vote
lias always to be placated, no matter how
much the services may lose.
Victoria will after all be able to keep
within the £1,610,000 deficit allowed under
the Premiers’ plan, but in order to do it
the Argyles are “borrowing” £150,000 of
Country Roads Board funds, the proceeds
of car licenses. The Government has had
an amended Financial Emergency Bill re-
enacting the percentage reductions in public-
service pay put through the Assembly. The
voting on the third reading was 40 to nine
—all Laborites.
The conference of nations at Lausanne is
considering whether it is worth while for
one Government to keep on trying to collect
Avar debts and indemnities in full from
another. Uncle Hoover, the principal and
most pertinacious creditor, isn’t officially
represented, but he has sent a man to
another conference of the same nations at
Geneva to propose a one-third reduction of
armaments. Italy is willing; France and
Japan are not. Moist of the other countries
would like to hear something about Uncle’s
attitude to the war debts before they commit
themselves.
“The Vic. Government has decided to require men
to work for their sustenance.”
PERCY REDTAPE: “Boys, if we don’t take a
firm stand, they’ll be applying that to
us next.”
The U.S. President is elected for four
years, and it takes about a year to elect
him. The new man (or the old man re-
elected) starts work early in March in each
fourth year, but, though the nation knows
by the previous November who he will be,
the interval is often an awkward period of
suspended animation. As the election of
the Lower House and one-third of the Upper
House happens every second year, Uncle is
seldom without a political crisis on hand.
The only time when his politics move fast
is when the President dies during his term
of office. Then the Vice-President succeeds
automatically. He can be sworn in by any
J.P. by candlelight in a barn and take office
right off.
By the narrow margin of nine votes ex-
Attorney-General Slater missed the Labor
nomination for Carlton; and had he got it
he might have become leader of. the party.
So many unionists are “unfinancial” and so
many others were indifferent that only 602
out of 3000-odd voted. The man chosen
is Barry, a tobacco-worker, a member of the
Trades Hall Council, and a delegate to the
A.Ij.P. conference. He is 32 and is described
as a fluent talker; but Australian Parlia-
ments are over-supplied with talkers and
dreadfully short of thinkers and doers.
As soreheaded now
as they were vain-
glorious before the
electors booted them
out, the Langsters
stonewalled for 12
hours when the new
N. S. Wales Assem-
bly met, and Speaker
Levy had to present
himself to the Gov-
ernor at half-past
twelve on a bitter
winter morning. The
country has shown
that it is in no mood
to have its business
held up by the gang
that defaulted, and
finally let it in for
a deficit of nearly
£12,000,000; and the
Stevens Government
will be expected to
take drastic action
if political larrikin-
ism breaks out
again. Suspension
of offenders for the
rest of the session,
with deprivation of pay, would meet tne
case.
Lang must have known that an election
couldn’t be avoided. A monthly estimate of
the number of unemployed has been furnished
by the Director of the State Labor Exchange
to the Government Statistician. The January
figure was 105,000, and February showed a
reduction of 5000. There was a rise m
March, when the Commonwealth Statistician
reported that 31.8 p.c. of N.S.W. unionists
were workless; but no more Labor Exchange
estimates were published. They were given
for March, 1929, 1930 and 1931; but in the
table for March, 1932, there is a blank, and
under it the note “Discontinued at end of
February.”
Now that N. S. Wales has a sane Govern-
ment, the question of cutting the State into
three or four will shortly arise; the Couhtry
party of 25 will see to' that. N. S. Wales
has had a good many vicissitudes. Y\ hen
it was at its largest it measured 2,076,308
square miles, and its population was set
down at 33,500. It has been subdivided
seven times since then, and now measures
309.432 square miles, with a population of
2,517,758 Since self-government began
about 1860 there has been no subdivision,
except that the Ma State parted with 940
square miles for a badly-situated Federal
capital, it being apparently assumed that
only under direct British rule was the mak-
ing 0 f new States possible. During recent
years the congestion of population in the
capital has gone on apace. In 1871 as many
as 72| per cent, of the State’s inhabitants
lived outside Sydney. By the latest calcu-
lation only 49f per cent, were to be found
outside.
The Lang Ministry did one noble action
by hastening the abolition of the N.S.W.
Agent-General’s billet in London. Even
though the flotation and renewal of British
loans had become a Federal affair, the A.-G.
might have remained as a harmless frill if
Willis hadn’t made him a comic nuisance.
Willis’s warning, which he professed to have
received through a meeting of British mem-
bers of Parliament, of a scheme to throw
Lang off the Harbor Bridge with a devil of
a splash was a silly invention. British mem-
bers, who don’t travel all that way to' throw
inflated house-agents over bridges, were
almost inclined to demand that Willis
should supply names, but they decided to
put it down to imbecility.
When Argyle submitted a revised amuse-
ment-tax schedule in Vic. Assembly with the
view of raising an additional £lOO,OOO or
£150,000, Tunnecliffe lost his temper. What
particularly riled him was. the enormity of
clapping a penny on the sixpence Bill pays
to see Richmond play Collingwood, and the
added wickedness of making even a four-
penny ticket taxable—in Tunnecliffe’s time
anything under lOd. was exempt. Tunny
accused Argyle and other Ministers of hav-
ing “deliberately lied” to the electors by
asserting that taxation had reached Satu-
ration point, and now proposing more of it.
Argyle replied that he had deprecated addi-
tional burdens on industries; amusements
were “luxuries.”
The Queensland deficit is expected to be
£2,300,000. According to Forgan Smith it
hag been swelled to the extent of £725,000
by reductions in railway charges, so the
reductions are to be abolished. If Smith
has a reason for thinking that the amount
he mentions would have come to hand if
freight rates and fares had not been cut, he
is keeping it very quiet.
De Valera has decided that the Irish Free
State won’t appear to defend an appeal
before the Privy Council, because he holds
that the, Free State has left the empire. It
is his own constabulary, or ex-constabulary,
who are appealing. If they lose despite the
Government's non-appearance they will pro-
LANG (to Badly) : “Give him a hand, hoys. , Cut his traces.”
bably say it is all one. But if they win and
De Valera caves in he will “lose face,” and
if they win and De Valera insists that they
have lost because he has retired from the
empire they will be a disaffected and huffy
lot of policemen.
Three of Lang’s Ministers, a minor mem-
ber of his Caucus and his newspaper wei’e
mentioned in the tin-hare charges as out-
lined to Justice Halsc Rogers, who is to
wrestle with them as Royal Commissioner.
Of “Judge” Swindell it is alleged, among
other things, that he demanded “£2OOO for
the Labor fighting fund” and parcels of
shares for politicians from an applicant for
a tin-hare license at Broken Hill, and it is
also asserted that shares in a tin-hare con-
cern were distributed among unnamed mem-
bers of the Leg. Council. It will be a couple
of months at least before the Royal Com-
missioner hands in his report; in the
meantime the Government will have to
decide what it is going to do about the
“sport.” Obviously the ban on night bet-
ting will have to be restored; and the sooner
the better. If gambling is allowed it should
only be at fortnightly meetings on non-
working days,: no proprietary concern to be
licensed.
J. M. Keynes, English economist, was
asked to write his opinion of the so-called
“experts’ plan,” which was handed to and
not accepted by the Premiers. Dog doesn’t
eat dog, and Keynes doesn’t exactly curse the
plan; but he hasn’t much good to say for it.
He obviously can’t see what they want a
high exchange rate for:—
The trade balance now seems fairly satisfactory.
....I doubt if I should alter the exchange unless
the banks and financial institutions were to tell me
that it would make them more comfortable and more
willing to expand credit; or a proposal was put
forward as a substitute for tariffs.
But tariffs have this advantage; they pul
money into the hard-up Treasuries, whereas
high exchange rates dip it out.
After the extraordinary proceedings in the
Court of Judge Curlewis, seven of the eight
New Guardsmen concerned in the “assault”
on Garden the Red were taken away to serve
their ruthless sentence —three months’ hard.
His Honor has since reduced the eighth
man’s sentence to a month on. the odd
ground that he was bitten by Garden’s dog
(“that is to some extent a punishment”)
and “did not attempt to evade.” But, accord-
ing to the police, one of the other young men
gave them every assistance, though he was
not tenderly cared for by the victim of the
outrage. The Premier has promised to make a
statement about the New Guard. He is ex-
pected to say that he regards these young
men as political prisoners, whose offence
was committed at a time of great public ex-
citement, when their own State Government
was setting them a rotten example by de-
faulting and then resisting the enforcement
law, and that they will be liberated on sub-
stantial bonds. Perhaps he may order them
to be also bitten by the dog.
Queensland’s new Government has earned
a pat on the back for one of its perform-
ances. Minister Bulcock announces that
there will be no open season this year for
native bears and ’possums. Some of Bul-
cock’s predecessors sanctioned -the wholesale
slaughter of the little furbearers to oblige
the unemployed. During the past, four .sea-
sons 7,250.000 furskins have; been sold m
Queensland, and no doubt millions mare
wounded animals and young ones died m -
gering deaths.
Linton, the Vic. M.L.A. who founded, the
Big Brother movement, points out that it is
possible in Australia for a Parliamentai.v
candidate to preach sedition oil the hustings
and then take the oath of allegiance with
his tongue in his cheek. Linton suggests
that the oatli should be taken when, the
candidate signs his nomination paper. A good
idea, but a rider should be added requiring
him to tell the truth, the whole truth and
nothing but the truth, so.< that if he gives
cause tor it he may be tried for perjury.
South Africa has its secessionists also.
Natal is talking of breaking away from the
Union because the Dutch-Nationalist Gov-
ernment has decided that bi-lingualism shall
not in future be essential for entry to and
promotion in the civil service. When the
Hertzogites came to power bi-liugualism was
optional, though a man who could speak
the awful, lingo then known ,as the ‘Taal.
as well as English, was always sure of pre-
ference. Then the Government invented an
artificial language which it named “Afri-
kaans” —a hotch-potch of the Taal and Hol-
land Dutch—and insisted that all its em-
ployees should know this as well as English.
Now it proposes that Afrikaans shall be the
only language used in the departments.
Hence the kick from English-speaking Natal.
Another legacy of Langism:—
Astounding evidence has been given at the. inquiry
into the charges against 0. J. Goode, who, after
being dismissed from the Railway ; Department by
'Commissioners Cleary and Brain, was appointed
adviser on transport matters to J. T. Lang, then
chairman of the Transport Co-ordination Board,
then Chief Commissioner of Transport at £3500 p.a.l
Oleary being “removed.” Lang and Lamaro, liis
Attorney-General, were called, and said they couldn’t
account for the disappearance of papers matei'ial
to the case. Lang added, for liis own part, that
, he had not read the Crown Solicitor’s report on
the charge?; that Goode had been “dealt with and
punished,” and that the inquiry was “a man-hunt.”
A cheque for £lOO, drawn by S. E. Vernon, a carri/v
with railway contracts, and endorsed “C. J. Goode,”
was put in. Goode refused to answer questions about
it on the ground that it might incriminate him.
So did Vernon. That witness replied in the same
terms concerning a cheque for a similar amount,
but would not swear that he had not given Goode
a cheque for £5O, “though I do not think I ever
gave* him any.” W. J. Cleary stated that Goode
had been reduced in rank, and then dismissed, for
“gross misconduct and maladministration” in the
Vernon affair and related matters, and that, long
after his dismissal, he had asked to be reinstated,
“if only for half an hour.” Evidence to the effect
’that Goode had been paid £5 a week for services
rendered as “honorary director” of a carrying co.
in which Dr. Wall, M.L.C., was. concerned was being
taken at the end of a hectic week.
“The N.S.W. Lottery Department has just had its
salaries fixed at high rates by an industrial tribunal.”
JUDGE: “You are charged with growing
sheep and wool instead of helping to
run a two-up school. You are sen-
tenced to another year’s starvation.”
The Federal Constitution contains ela-
borate provisions for the making of new
States and new State capitals, and for the
better diffusion of population which must
result. The great difficulty is the division
of the railways, and the railway losses, and
the insane railway debts, and" the adjustment
of the diverse and crazed railway gauges.
The most hopeful solution is to present the
entire hash to the Commonwealth with in-
structions tp find a way out. It might sub-
divide the job as much as it pleased, and
might end by selling or leasing the lines if
they became saleable • but there would be
uniformity.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Kingsway”: There is something comic
about the last of any once-glamorous insti-
tution. The last of the Mohicans, the last
of the Barons, the last of the Bourbons
-—all inspire the grin of derision rather than
the sigh of sympathy. They are among those
who have, outstayed their welcome; lingered
too long on the stage ; become futile. Fuitliei,
they usually represent unnecessary - 4 expense.
So with poor old “Bull Ryrie, the last ot
the High Commissioners. Bruce may be
acquitted of a subtle desire to kil t < j< b
when he sent his friend to London, and set
him up in a splendid West End mansion,
six years ago. Yet almost fiom the day
of the gallant old warrior’s arrival at
Australia House it became apparent that
he would be the last of his tribe. Every-
body liked him, and everybody laughed at
him. Some of his gaffes— as when he told
a luncheon-party of British car manufac-
turers that he always used American cars
himself —made thousands realise that the
Commonwealth was an exporter of oddities
who had only known of it previously as a
breeding-place of cricketers, shock troops and
billiard-players. He certainly got the laughs :
but always peevish voices kept asking:
“What on earth’s the point of him? Hhat s
lie supposed to do ?” And no answer was
forthcoming. I don’t include the last of the
N S.W Agents-General (bracketed with the
name of Mr. Willis) in this note because the
billet never had any, glamor. It was a Home
for the Dying, politically, almost from the
jump.
“Strict Veg.” : I have often wondered how
Health' Boards and the like dispose of the
whisky they seize. As far as Melbourne
is concerned, the secret is out. Accord-
ing to the chairman of the local body, it is
stored to the end of the year and then
mixed and distributed to old people’s homes
and similar institutions. A confession as
to what is done witli the books confiscated
by the Customs, would be of equal interest.
“C.Q." : Sunshine (Vic.), was the scene
of a complicated tragedy the other day. The
bodies of two little children were found in the
local swimming pool, which is in a secluded
spot. There v-ere indication that they were
dead before they got into the water. Dragging-
operations brought to light, first a perambu-
lator, then a man’s coat, and finally a
woman’s body. The woman was identified as
the mother of the other victims; the man’s
coat is as yet an unsolved mystery. Search
for the woman’s husband ended unexpectedly.
He turned out to be a mechanic living at
Maidstone, and lie has been charged with
having gone through the form of marriage
with a young woman, his wife being then
alive.
* * * *
“10-2-4” : I struck an explanation of that
half-million Lang Plan vote in the person of
a Domain orator on the Sunday after
the fray. He removed his collar and tic
before ascending the rostrum, by way of prov-
ing his democratic outlook, but there was no
need. He was theatrically a Man of the
People—a type rarely seen in this country
off the stage or screen —from his voice and
articulation, which produced the effect at
times of- onc using a foreign language, to his
habit of frothing slightly at the mouth, and
the defiant gesture with which he wiped his
nose with the back of his hand at intervals.
An immigrant I took him to be, masquerading
as an Aussie proletarian (he kept using ex-
WHERE THE INTEREST LIES.
IKEY JUNIOR: “Fader, why do the newspapers call a new baby an ‘interesting ’ event?"
IKEY JUNIOR: “Because the fader often has to borrow from us at twenty-five per shent.
my poy!”
pressions like “I’ll tell ee for why,” which is
pure Sussex), but it was neither Ins
nationality nor his manners that interested
me. but his logic.
“Woodger like ter learn the truth about the elec-
tion that licked Jack Lang, Comrades, the best
h’en’ you bone-’eaded Aussie workers ever ’ad?
R . gM ,■> u was c? . see . an , rn tell ee for why .
I goes ter vote, an’ no one arsts me if I’ve voted
before. No one arsts anyone if ; they’ve voted before.
An > m tell ee for why. Becos the ’ole thing was
crook, first and larst, an’ if 1 ’ad me w’y I’d go
ter the coves wot slung- Jack out, an’" I’d s’y
‘ ’Ave yer electin’ on yer own next time. Orstrylia’s
toilers ain’t goin’ ter vote becos the marster clarss
is crook see.’ An’ now I got a word ter s’y ter
- vou workers wot lorst the election for the whitest,
cleanest-livin' pollertishun wot ever fort the peopled
Uattle. Why did ’e lose? Why’s ’e on the outer
ter-dy? I’ll tell ee fer why. Becos you voted fer
Bert Stevens, the biggest liar wot ever went inter
a pulpit. Yus, you turned Jack Lang down, an’ now
Gord ’elp yer. You’ 11 soon see if Lang was l-ight
orl l say, ( when yer do see, is
Bene J er aa “ we “ llsht ;
He had the biggest crowd of all the speakers ;
hardly anyone interjected or seemed to
notice a flaw m his reasoning; and as he
emitted J. us concluding shower of saliva and
retired there was considerable applause. A
Lan« Ilanner personified if ever I listened
1 c.
; " ’•= *
Gwi : The cigarette habit may have
been widespread in Southern Europe long
befoie northern took to it wliole-
heartedly (B. 10/6/’32), but I susnect Hint
it had plenty of votaries hi England long
before the Crimean War. Doesn’t Black-
more in “Lorna Doone” represent Tom
Faggus as rolling his own, and that in the
seventeenth century? And I have an idea
that the gradual decay of the snuff-taking
habit in the eighteenth and nineteenth cen-
turies was largely due to the advance in
favor of the cigarette, which took the place
of snuff as a mild and fleeting stimulant or
ELECTIONE BRING.
The man who cheered in the wrong place.
sedative —or both. But, of course, mass
production was only in its infancy in those
days; even 50" years ago tobacconists were
selling little machines wherewith the smoker
could manufacture his own fags more neatly
than with the hands. The first time I
saw hefty manual workers unanimously con-
tenting themselves with “paper cylinders'’
in the intervals of hard graft was in Lisbon;
it was a strange sight to one fresh from the
blackened clays of English navvies and
bargees. But possibly even navvies have
acquired the cigarette habit since then, and
Thames bargees, too —if there are any left.
“Naklioda”: Automatism, advanced as a
defence in the Moxley murder trial, is usually
associated with epilepsy, but
in Malaya it is so common
that there are grounds for re-
garding it as present or latent
in the bulk of the population.
There it is known as latah.
The sufferer from latah is
usually aware of aud ashamed
of his condition and endeavors
to conceal it, but a sudden
shock will bring it to the sur-
face. The will goes out of
control, the orang latah usually
proceeding to imitate the
actions of whatever person or
object has caused the original
stimulus. There is an authen-
ticated story of a native who,
startled by a tiger, went on all
fours and gave leap for leap,
until the astonished animal
bounded back into the jungle.
In the old days a criminal
who pleaded latah was tested
in this wise. The clerk of
the court suddenly shouted in
his ear and started thumping
the edge of the dock. The
prisoner would immediately
start doing likewise. A board
studded with nails was then
thrust under his hand and if he went on
pounding it. oblivious of the pain, this was
considered as convincing evidence of his auto-
matism.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: German republicanism, like
the Chinese variety, strikes me as a skin
disease, rather than a fundamental change in
mentality. When the Celestial Revolution
broke out, the Son of Heaven did not abdi- ,
cate. He retired like a company director
and hinted that he was available for re-
election. Ilis farewell edict to his beloved
subjects was unique in history. It even
appointed the president and laid down on
broad lines the republican constitution. Its
author then retired to sumptuous apart
ments in the Forbidden City. The first
attempt to restore him to the Dragon
Throne only failed because it was inoppor-
tune and lacked the support of powerful
foreigners. The second attempt, having the
backing of Japan, was more successful and
the erstwhile private citizen now reigns in
Manchuria. Then, so-called German republi-
cans have taken care to keep their late ruler
handy in Holland. They have even allowed
him to retain his property so that his royal
dignity would not be compromised by lack of
a shirt to cover it.
* * * *
“D.” : I notice in the “Sun” that
More, than 350 oyster leases in New South Wales
have reverted to the Crown because the lessees have
been unable to pay the rent. The oyster business
is in a parlous condition.
Let me, as an ex-oyster-eater, supply the
explanation. When I last visited the mar-
kets oysters were being bought at £1 a bag
—llO dozen going to a bag. That is to
say, the retailer was paying considerably less
than a farthing apiece. Yet nearly all
Sydney fishmongers charge Is. 6d. a dozen,
or lid. apiece. Say, 700 per cent., for open-
ing the things and putting them on a plate.
It is the same in other lines. At the mar-
kets last week farmers and gardeners were
glad to get 3d. a dozen for the cauliflowers
which they had grown and transported to
Sydney, in some' cases from long distances.
Y r et the Dago whom I sometimes allow- to
swiudle me had no cauliflowers in his shop
which he was prepared to sell for 3d.;
most of them were fid. Some growers are
coping with the situation on original lines.
At an orangery which I sometimes motor
past on Sundays, the proprietor displays
on a roadside stand honey and marma-
lade which are, inferentially, home-made.
He charges a shade over the city price, but
then you have the pleasing knowledge that
the stuff is fresh. And if you go to a shed
near his home you will see the packing-
cases in which his supplies have arrived over
the road you have just traversed.
“Klip”: Indications are that the oncc-
precious diamond will soon be bringing
lower prices than decent paste, which re-
quires skill and labor to manufacture. The
Diamond Corporation, which controls the
output from South Africa, has closed down
on all production, and Kimberley has practi-
cally gone on the dole. In spite of a couple of
years of restriction of output, the world’s stock
of unsaleable stones to-day is estimated at.
£20,000,000, more than a third of it in Lon-
don alone. Before the glut the normal
world demand was represented by about
£12,000,000; last year less than £2,000,000
worth of diamonds was sold. Holders of
the rarer stones, such as emeralds and
rubies, should find the wicket improving,
while Queensland’s many beautiful jewels and
gem stones may look for an improved market
if the “sparklers” go right out of fashion,
as they surely will with cheapness.
“Ex-Sosh”: I didn’t object to N.S.W.’s
Caves express, as “F.M.” absurdly implies
(B. 25/5/’32), because it provides no dining-
car on the run from Sydney to Mt. Vic-
toria (10.35 a.m.—l p.m.). The complaint
was that, unlike England’s Brighton express,
it doesn’t give passengers a chance to dine
in the average first-class passenger’s normal
dinner-hour; namely, on the run in the other
direction between 7 and 9 p.m. Of course,
it wouldn’t have been fair to compare the
speed of an English train running across
flat country with the Caves express, “which
climbs 3142 feet between Emu Plains and
Leura,” but I did no such thing-. I said
the Caves express was slower and less punc-
tual than the Brighton express on its
eastern trip, 31 miles of which are down-
hill, while the rest of the journey is on the
flat.
THE DOUBLE.
JACK: “Do you dance?"
JILL: "I love to."
JACK: “So can I. Let’s do a bit of both."
“Tyke” : The use of the word “merry” to
describe a mild degree of conviviality (B.
22/6/’32) is common enough in England to
make one wonder at the Sydney magistrate
being unaware of it. There are many
euphemisms for the allegedly delectable con-
dition known in Devonshire as “market-
merry.” In Yorkshire it becomes “market-
fresh.” Apropos, in Lancashire to ask a
lady in any of the mill towns if she has
been “shopping” is to invite a black eye
with, perhaps, a bit of “clogging” thrown in.
Harmless enough in Sydney, for instance,
the phrase carries an invidious meaning in
Bolton or Burnley.
RECALLED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. A. C. Willis, , Mr. Lang’s London agent, is
on his way back to Sydney, his position having
been abolished.”
Gome back from that cushy and frilly
Soft job that in England you’ve had.
Nay, you’ve got to return willy-nilly,
For it’s wilted and vanished, my lad.
The pangs of dismissal may trouble you,
Still a comradely welcome awaits--
Condolences, too —A .G.W.
Come back to your mates !
They’ll feel for you. Faith ! you have
fellows
In the frownings of Fortune enow,
Whose billets are gone (like Othello’s),
: Whose barrows, are bogged in the slough.
They fell in the ’lectoral blizzard,
Went down in the ballot-booth wreck:
They’re wise to the axe in the gizzard,
The knife in the neck.
Were you hag-rid in dreams, were you
haunted
By spooks of departed A.-G.’s
Who wakened to find them unwanted
When Governments crashed overseas?
Still you’ve not been, like such, superseded,
And therein some solace may lurk.
Your office is simply un-needed,
There being no work.
Time was there were schemes for promoting
Our welfare in dozens of ways;
There were lasliin’s of loans for the floating
(Ah, me! they were halcyon days!) ;
Time was there were divers and dinkum
And recognised tasks to perform,
And a chap could earn some of his income
And keep himself warm.
But for feeding on venison and turtle
At worshipful companies’ boards;
For jaunts through the may and the myrtle,
For week-ends with ladies and lords;
For wearing glad rags at a levee,
Knee-breeches and shimmering hat—
Two thou, is a trifle too heavy
A figure for that,!
O; Willis, the watchful and wily,
If there’s one of the woodened-out gang*
Who’ll vow that they’ve treated you vilely,
I venture you’ll find him in Lang.
Unless you had made it your mission
To broadcast, that Commons-hatched plot,
He’d have gone off the Bridge to perdition,
More likely than not.
Come back, and the coves of the Caucus
Will see that there’s corn in the crib.
There was never more room for the raucous,
There was seldom such scope for the glib.
If the land of your birth grows abhorrent
At this thrust of malevolent I ates,
There’ll be sympathy here by the torrent
(And they’ll fall on your neck, too, ID
warrant).
Come back to your mates.
N.s.w.
T. THE E.


“Norbell”; The pride and joy of two
maiden ladies who live near me in tot.
Kilda was an old and stiff-jointed tomcat
named Prince. The animal had been ailing,
and most of his teeth had fallen out. His mis-
tresses .took him to the animal clinic at Royal
Park, where the vet. sympathetically sug-
gested that Prince should be painlessly elimi-
nated. The ladies couldn’t bear the idea, and
mournfully carried the patient home again,
where he grew worse. At last they decided
that his blameless life must end, and, ten-
derly stowing Prince away in an old and
battered suitcase, with a chunk of blue
metal as a sinker, they carried their burden
to the far end of St. Kilda pier, and sat down
to screw up their courage for the final act.
As they were hugging the suitcase as if it
contained something supremely precious, a
gushing gentleman came up. “How are you.
how are you, my dears!” he exclaimed
heartily. “Sir! we don’t know you,” was
the frigid reply. “Oh, yes, you do!” said
the chegry one, and suddenly grabbing the
AS ALL WIVES DO
FRIEND: “And do you still sing to your husband?”
SHE (at the piano) : “Oh, I just run through a few notes for him now and again ”
suitcase he dashed down the pier and van-
ished from view. Bagsnatchers are very
active in Melbourne just now.
* * * *
Ruggieri: No need for anyone in search
of magical practices to go as far afield as
the Carpathians or Malaya (B. 22/6/’32).
If Helen Simpson looks nearer home, in
some parts of Yorkshire, Wales or the West
of England—to say nothing of Ireland—she
can find all the belief in witchcraft and black
magic she desires. Indeed, if she comes to
Sydney, she will find more than a smatter-
mg of it in Darlinghurst or Surry Hills,
The baby's thumb, which serves the Javanese
magician for a familiar, according to “F. 5.,”
is a necessary appurtenance to a magician.
All witches and warlocks of good standing
employed them in the Middle Ages, usually
in the form of various animals. As in the
Javanese instance, also, they were supposed
to be fed on the blood of their employer.
* • * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The latest balance-sheet
of Victoria’s War Shrine, still rising on the
Domain. Melbourne, refutes the doubts
originally expressed by many pessimists that
the donations promised would not be forth-
coming in their entirety—and that was
before the arrival of the depression. Only
£5OO is outstanding of the £lOOOOO promised,
Up-to-date £210,000 has been spent on wages
and material, the latter being almost en-
tirely Victorian. The City Council is the big-
gest donor with £50,000; but the State
Government has also been liberal. There
are three million bricks already in the edi-
fice and an enormous quantity of the beauti-
ful Buchan marble. A much-criticised em-
bellishment is the ornamental bronze work
and crowning feature, which were made in
Sydney. The crown weighs three tons and
is as high as two men, but as it perches
200 feet above sea level its artistic defects
are not. likely to worry the public.
* * * #
“Chevroford”: It is now 15 months since
the Syduey-Melbourne airliner Southern
Cloud disappeared in a terrific storm with
six passengers. Within a few hours reports
came that it had been heard in the Federal
Territory, near Kosciusko, and in various
places in the Australian Alps; seamen saw
it falling Into the sea in Bass Straits; a
farmer’s wife witnessed it vanish into a
raincloud near Geelong; it was seen crash-
ing in flames in the Dandenongs, and several
householders watched it glide above their
roofs in Malvern, Toorak, Brighton and
Kew. Since then its remains have been
discovered again and again. The latest
report was that it had been found at War-
ragul; in a few hours the story had spread
from one end of Gippsland to the other. As
far as could be ascertained, the rumor was
started by a stranger who passed through
Neerim South a few days before. Even the
most sceptical minds are liable to be affected
when the public is deeply stirred. One of
the soberest men I know told me that he
heard the ’plane pass over his house on the
day it disappeared. After a lengthy dis-
cussion and recollection of related incidents,
it turned out that he had actually seen the
Southern Cloud, but the time was a week
before.
❖ * *
“Stone”: Unless Sydney papers belie them
the N.S.W. police haye been a long time
tumbling to one of the most notorious ramps
of the jewellers’ trade—the “swiping” of
valuable diamonds given to tradesmen to re-
set. It is not suggested that reputable
firms would stoop to such a fraud, but there
are jewellers who are mostly receivers of
stolen property. Unless the stone is an
exceptional one—and the greediest thief
usually takes care to let such a one alone
—diamonds are difficult to identify, even by
experts. The crook jeweller’s method is
simple. He just says that the substituted
stone is the same one he received for re-
setting, and that ends it
* * * s’:
“The Langsuyar”: As a Malay spirit of
great antiquity, very sinister attributes and
considerable experience, I have taken a great
interest, as have all my professional col-
leagues, in the foob'sh attempt made by cer-
tain English and German scientists to dis-
credit my respectable calling by the anoint-
ing of a he-goat with the object of turning
it into a comely youth. As a test of our
powers the experiment was ridiculous. Even
supposing all the appropriate rites had been
properly observed, including the employing
of a maiden in w r hite garments to smear the
animal with a decoction of bat’s blood, soot
and honey on a moonlit night on a high moun-
tain, there was no guarantee of a successful
transformation. The spirit invoked might
have been at a stopwork meeting or on strike
for higher wages. Some of our evil spirits
are out of work, and, through being on the
dole so long, have lost much of their cun-
uing. I am myself a graveyard ghoul, and
have not suffered as much as have some
of my confreres, but I know of a number of
djinns, spooks, apparitions, warlocks, wizards,
sorcerers and bottle imps who have not had
a job for years. The Pontianak, one of the
most potent and dreadful spirits in the East
Indian archipelago, has been compelled to
accept a trumpery commission to haunt
American millionaires. This accounts for
the great increase in suicides in that coun-
try.
* * * *
“Tango”: The depression in Maoriland
has brought some queer experiences. The
recent offer of a Canterbury farmer to give
a bale of wool, 4001 b. in weight, in payment
for a suit, only to be told that the value did
not equal the price of the clothing, prompted
a Christchurch butcher to take a hand in
the discussion. He stated that he would
have to sell five to six hides to buy a pair
of boots and 80 sheepskins to purchase a
leather coat.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The underground postal service
is not the only means of at least one-way
communication with the outside world avail-
able to prisoners at the Geelong gaol. A
prayer-book measuring four inches by three
inches, with a depth of one inch, was recently
confiscated by the authorities. On the front
cover was an incised cross and inside the
pious volume was a crystal set capable of
pick ; ng up near-by stations. Still, this par-
ticular prisoner was only guilty of individtial-
ism and inventiveness. ’ The institution has
a large official receiving-set.
* •& * $
“F.S.”: A belated controversy has broken
out in Melbourne over Web Gilbert’s statue
of Flinders which gazes from the west eleva-
tion of St. Paul’s on the crowds hurrying to
the p ; ctures along Swanston-street. It is sug-
gested that the site is bad and the eoncep-
tion rotten. The eminent navigator is repre-
seated stepping ashore from an incredible
SO PROVOKING.
“Bush boys never seem to have a word of praise jor a girl’s dress.”
“No, they’re so provoking! The first time I asked my husband what shade he
preferred, he said a clump of she-oak was as good as any!"
boat with his cocked hat under his arm. Two
sailors are steadying the craft, which never
was on land or sea. The mixture of realism
and decoration detracts from the dignity of
the principal figui’e, which looks like an
actor in a melodrama posing for his photo-
graph. The removal of the boat would pro-
bably improve matters, but it is doubtful
whether a city has any moral right to inter-
fere with a sculptor’s creation after his death,
any more than it has a legal right to tamper
with it while he is living. When the late
Lord Leverliulme and his butler carved up
a portrait by Augustus John in order to
stow it in the family safe, the leading vandal
had to sustain a writ for damages from tiie
indignant painter.
“Cato”: European royalty goes
its way supremely unaffected by tne
clean-shaving fashion —if, indeed, it
is a fashion outside of Europe and
the U.S.A. Europe has but nine
male sovereigns left nowadays, the
tenth hereditary ruler being Queen
Wilhelmina of the Netherlands, and
a recent display of their photos, in
an American magazine shows that
Italy, Belgium, Denmark, Norway,
Sweden, Jugoslavia, Bulgaria and
Roumania all possess moustachioed
monarchs, while King George, of
course, clings to his naval beard.
Even among kings in exile, whose
thrones have slipped away from
them since the war, a clean-shaved
face would probably be hard to
find. With princes it might be dif-
ferent. If kings have a tendency
to fall behind the modes of the
period, princes may be relied on
to keep up with or a bit ahead of it.
“C. Sandig”: Captain Heron was by no
means the only one-eyed Digger to return
to the line (B. 15/6/’32). I knew person-
ally two such cases. One, with whom I was
in hospital, was a Light Horseman who hailed
from Norfolk Island. The other was Cap-
tain Fred Aarons, who lost one eye on Gal-
lipoli, and on returning to France had his
other eye damaged with a piece of h.e.
:|: a: * *
“Zog”: The late Tommy Walker, West-
ralia’s ex-Speaker, spilt a lot of ink as the
editor of Sunday newspapers before he got
a goldfields electorate to return him to Par-
liament. As a journalist he was a product
of the Nortonian school, with a great liking
for “u r ords of learned length and ponderous
sound” and a craving for sensationalism,
which found ex-
pression in savage
•attacks on magis-
trates, police and
other buttresses of
the body politic—
whom, by the irony
of fate, Tommy,
when he presently
became Attorney-
General, was ex-
pected to defend.
Walker enjoyed
some reputation as
a student of history
and a scholar, and
he loved to garnish
his philippics with
classical quota-
tions; but, as his
acquaintance with
Greek and Latin
writers had been
made entirely
through the medium
of translations, he
never wrote over
his readers’ heads.
And. like Norton,
he was seldom
stuck for an alli-
terative word. I
recall a torrent of
labored invective he
once directed at
the head of some
hapless member of
the police force,
who was accused of
having exceeded his
duty by arresting
for drunkenness a
citizen who was
partially sober.
The constable’s
name was Zeitch
anu over the blast
of comm ination
that was designed
to hold him up to
the obloquy of all
right -thinking
people sprawled the huge caption “Zeitch
the Zibet,” which scut a lot of puzzled
readers to the dictionary. There they
learned that a zibet was a Peruvian skunk.
“D.”: gays “Kerys” (B. 8/6/’32) : “No
hilly city retains cycling enthusiasts for
long”; and he specifically mentions Sydney.
Well, this is from the “Sun” (20/G/’32).
apropos the fact that “over 600 cycles have
been stolen in the Metropolitan area in the
past three months” :
Half the people in the Western Suburbs ride to
work on bicycles and even girls are taking to
them, because they do not have to pay tram and
train fares if they use a bike.”
They never did it till they got hard up; but
just so long as they remain hard up—that
is, till the depresh. lifts—they’ll go on doing
it. In England, where people know a lot
more about economy than we do, thousands
ride bikes in hilly towns; for example, the
watering-places on the South Coast. The
same on the Continent and in India and
Malaya. They wouldn’t do it if they could
afford cars, but its easier and more expedi-
tious than walking, and that’s the whole
explanation of the phenomenon.
* :!: * *
“S.T.S.”: Lots of old yarns about John
Verran are being revived in Adelaide, now
that he is not here to contradict them. For
example: (1) (Possibly true.) : At a memo-
rial to Tom Price, he said, “We are here to
perpetrate the memory of our friend.” (2)
(Probably true, but told also of George
Reid.) : To a fat woman who was interject-
ing, “Give us the figures !” —“The less you
and I say about figures, ma’am, the better."
Sfc ❖ % &
“S.M.G.: Recently Melbourne’s city fathers
took a general survey of their employees
in connection with the economy campaign,
and it was decided to give every indispen-
sable member an official title. The munici-
pal ratcatcher now figures on the records
as the Master of the Hounds.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Coats are on the green over the
centenary celebrations in Melbourne not only
over the question of who founded the city—
the “Commonwealth Year-Book” says it was
John Pascoe Fawkner, but the man in the
street will tell you Batman did—but also over
the form that the celebrations should take.
The city council stands for an international
exhibition, which, according to Gaud-Mayor
Smith', will bring £10,000,000 of fresh money
into the country. The “Age” points out that
previous exhibitions were disastrous white
elephants involving their promoters in huge
losses. Tlie town-planning association, of
which James Barrett is president, suggests
that a fitting method of commemoration
would be to create a civic centre, finish the
JUST PLAIN GIRL.
SHE (scrutinising scantily-attired, young thing) : “But don’t you
think she’s rather plain?”
HE: “Er — well —nearly
Yarra boulevard, beautify the Yarra basin
and erect a gateway from Port Melbourne to
the city. This might lead to a great influx
of loan money, if not of overseas visitors.
IF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Bald heads are more numerous than ever in the
hew N.SiW. Assembly, but there is only one beard.”
If wit and width together
Are bound by tie and tether,
The same as wind and weather,
The same as cups and plates,
Are eminences mental
And manners suave and gentle,
I wonder, incidental
To bald and shining pates?
Do shorn and shaven faces
O’er which the razor races
Each morn, to sweep all. traces
Of hair from youth and age.
See things from clearer angles
Than in the old-day tangles
When whiskers waved in wrangles
And beards were wagged in rage?
I wouldn’t like to say so.
Still, one may trust and pray so.
With all these M.’sL.A. so
Smooth-mown on cheek and chin.
Be sure, if wisdom matches
With ever-rounding- patches
And lost or thinning thatches.
There’s whips this House within !
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY"
for July
ON SALE SATURDAY.
EXCHANGE & PRICES
POSSIBLE EFFECT ON
MARKET
TOBACCO SHARES
AND DEBENTURES
TIMBER & FORESTRY
OUTLOOK FOR
METALS
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.J.
--g-SIZW^VM.
tor yi A S toarXet- 1 p tte -
iact,^
V\
i drPS,
A?.,
visit
tel
dat.^r^ 0 :
stt
ib ate :^vestiss aU °^X te sses an A ftep* esel ?
<*^“4?r&
o> 2 «*w^ v SttBteg*sU ar -°
#s£««*£• tf&><*’ BOX _
«»?*l&3ss
A PATENT RIDING-BOOT
Every Horseman Should
Wear
“THE MEXICAN” patented
Riding Boot has special fea-
tures that make it the most
popular and serviceable boot for
stockmen in Australia. It is
fastened by two-fold strapped
tops that prevent sand and i
grass-seeds from entering, and
ensure a perfect fit over the
instep irrespective of size.
Obtainable in Black Box Calf,
soft Black Wallaby or Tan
Calf in all sizes.
Price, per pair .. XO/O
Send your order to Desk S.B.
Pike Brothers Ltd.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE .
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some July birthdays:—
High Commissioner Ryrie, 67, and Prof. Heinze
(Melb.), 38, on Ist; Prof. Bragg, F.R.S. (formerly
of Adel.), 70, on 2nd; Theo Fink, 77, and ex-Federal
Minister Blakeley; 46, on 3rd; Speck’s Premier
McPhee, 64, on 4th; Justice Piper (S.A.), 67, on
sth; S. Aus. Gov. Hore-Ruthven, 60, and Vic.’s
C.J. Irvine, 74, on 6th; Percy Grainger, 60, on
Bth; Justice Milner Stephen (N.S.W.), 62, Canon
P. Slaney Poole (Adel.), 87, and Harold Boyce
(British M.P., b. at Taree, N.S.W.), 37, on 9th;
Chief Justice Belcher, of Trinadad (b. at Geelong),
56, and Brig.-Gen. Lachlan C. Wilson (Q.), 61, on
11th; Brig.-Gen. Leane (S.A. Police Com.), 54, and
A. M. Eedy (Mutual Life and Citizens’), 62, on
12th; Spencer Browne (Brisbane), 76, on 13th;
Lloyd Dumas (Adel. “Advertiser”), 41, on 15th;
ex-Federal Minister Forde, 42, Prof. Davies, Mus.
Doc. (Adel.), 65, and bibliographer Percival Serle
(Melb.), 61, on 18th; Vice-Admiral CresweU, 80,
and Prof. Brigden (Q-), 46, on 20th; E. F.
Mitchell, K.C., 77, Dr. Cunningham (“Argus”), 73,
and “Smiler” Hales (b. at Adel.), 72, on 21st;
Q’land’s Minister of Mines Stopford, 54, on 22nd,
Robt. C. Packer (Associated Newspapers), 53,’ and
Rev. G. E. Hale (Adel.), 48, on 24th; Bishop
Moyes (Armidale), 48, on 25th; W. R. Alexandei
(Vic. Parliament), 61, on 27th; Randolph Bedford
(Q.), 64, on 28th; Adel, lawyer Tom Holland, 78,
on 29th; and surgeon Alexander MacCormiek, 76,
on 31st.
Those who spend their working lives in
the home of The Bulletin lost a solid
friend and a valuable colleague last week.
Alex. Dunlop, chief reader for nearly 36
years, died suddenly. Not many papers
carry fewer mechanical errors than IHE
Bulletin, and Mr. Dunlop has been largely
responsible for it. Yet you could pick fewer
holes in his life than you could in Ms
“proofs.”
“Ex-Copyholder”: In build Alex. Dunlop
suggested Oswald Pryor’s Cousin Tack, es-
pecially his locaLpracher Cousin Jack,
though Dunlop was not adorned with a tar-
brush beard. A militant evangelist, he
preached earnestly on street corner and in
pulpit, including that of Australia’s oldest
church, the dour stone kirk at Ebenezer, on
the Hawkesbury, built in 1810. And, as
well as spiritual, he always had material
help for God’s poor. Henry Lawson knew
this. Some Saturdays he would mooch into
the old reader’s cubicle and, shoving his
hands deep into his trousers, would with-
draw the pockets inside out, “Empty, Dun-
lop !” Henry would observe. “Not even
thrippence for the plate on Sunday! The
chink of coin changing hands would be sure
to follow.
Probably because N.S.W. North Coast
towns haven’t been made suburbs of Sydney
(they weren’t even joined up by rail until
lately), they have always cultivated a good
crop of local patriots. Taree’s best exhibit
for years past has been L. O. Martin, the
new Minister for Justice —a man who, hav-
ing graduated brilliantly in arts and law,
has practised there as a solicitor for 3b
New N.S.W. Minister for Justice MARTIN.
years, has been an alderman for 26 years
and mayor more times than anybody remem-
bers. Besides clients Mr. Martin also attends
to cows —two of his sons are graziers—and
few men know more about the butter busi-
ness. He has been in the House for five
years, and during that period has established
a very solid reputation.
Major Alan Currie, of Ercildoune, Bur-
rumbeet, M.L.C. for Nelson Province, who
made a most arresting speech on the col-
lapse of the wool-growing industry which is
threatened, unless taxes and charges, inchid
ing freight, are reduced, has been improv-
ing his status ever since lie entered the
House four years ago. McPherson made him
an honorary Minister when Menzies left
the Cabinet. A grazier himself, Currie knows
what he is talking about and this latest
speech has made a deep impression. Currie s
bit in the Big War won him his majority
and an M.C.
The Yic. joined with the Speck’s kirk
last week "in mourning the Rev. James
Crookston, of
Chalmers Church,
Hobart, and a
former Moderator-
General, who died
suddenly at 72. A
native of Newcastle
(N.S.W.), he was
ordained in Queens-
land, and, having
gone through a post
course in Scotland,
shepherded flocks in
N.S.W., Vic. and
Tasmania, served
as chaplain during
the war, and was
Moderator in Vic.,
before becoming
Moderator - General
in 1924-26. A fine
stamp of man and
an eloquent pulpit-
eer he made troops
of friends. A
widow, three sons
(one a Sydney
med.) and two
daughters survive
him.
A rem a r kable
pair of brothers
are the Smiths.
Bruce, K.C., who
will be 81 this
month, travels
from Browral to
Sydney every Mon-
day to sit on the
Insurance Board,
of which he is
chair man. His
brother Ormonde,
who is older, lives
up the North Shore
(Sydney) line, and
Although an artist
refused to exhibit.
S.A.’s Governor
HORE-RUTHVEN,
who will have a births
day (6oth) next week.
paints nearly every day.
of merit, he has always
Bruce was Minister for
Works under Parkes.
Mrs. Kitty Woods, who has died at Burran-
gong (N.S.W.) was said to be 105. Born
at Colac (Vic.), she married at 15 Peter
John Woods, an Irishman, and the pair
wcto among the earliest settlers in the
south-west of N.S.W. She could tell of the
tribal wars among the natives in the early
days, particularly the battle where Harden
now stands, when the Lachlan tribe anni-
hilated their Murrumbidgee foemen and car-
ried off all the lubras. She had lived i all
through the roaring days of the goldfields,
including the riots at Lambing Mat, and the
bushranging era, and she retained personal
recollections of Hall, Gilbert, Dunn and
other noted outlaws. One son, William,
survives her; her husband and 13 other
children went before. Right up to her death,
she was a familiar figure in the streets ot
Young.
There was pretty good proof that Robert
Cox, who died last week, had reached his
103. Something like 25 alleged centenarians
die in Australia every year —in 1929 there
were 26 and in 1930 there were 28. They
do what they can at the Registrar-General s
offices to check the figures; but there is
often a heavy fog about them, even when
they are accepted. The greatest age claimed
for any Australian person who has died in
the last two years, for which a complete
search is possible, was the 112 of a Rr is "
bane man, born in the South Sea islands;
but for two others 110 has been claimed
and the claim has been accepted. One man
died at Tamarang South (N.S.W.) in 1929,
who, so it was alleged, had been born m the
State 104 years before, and that seems a
record for a male Australian, though an un-
married lady said to be 105 and born in
N. S Wales died on the Manning a couple
of years ago. Robert Cox, the centenarian
who was the cause of all this searching,
came from Ireland, and lived in reasonable
comfort on the N.S.W. North Coast most
of his life.
Francis Kenna, who called it a day in
Brisbane last week, at 67, was a Bulletin
verse and short-story contributor of charm.
Born at Maryborough (Q.), he was first a
school-teacher, then an M-L.A. in four Par-
liaments, and always a writer —he was editor
of the “Worker” for a while. He published
two books of verse, “Songs of a Season” and
“Phases,” both of which enjoyed a consid-
erable vogue.
The Speck is farewelling its most eloquent
Congregational parson, Arthur Nelson, who
has filled Hobart Memorial Church for seven
years or so, and will be next heard of at
Port Adelaide, whither he goes in the sure
knowledge that he will earn a much bigger
stipend than he can ever hope to receive.
Official reps, of practically every local
society and denomination crowded his fare-
well platform, and flung oratory and more
tangible gifts at him. The prominents in-
cluded the Anglican bish. and the Salv’army
brass-hats, and Lieut.-Gov. Nicholls cheer-
fully announced himself present as an un-
invited guest.
One of the last of the Kangs of the Over-
land laid down his sceptre at Emmett Downs
(C.Q.) when W. Cameron, of Aramac, was
drafted through the gates at 74. H'e began
life in Victoria, where he learned about sheep
with “Money” Miller. Followed a trip to
India with horses, which ended disastrously
—the vessel piled up on the Barrier Reef.
After that came years of droving from one
end of Queensland to the other, until he took
over the job of looking after the W.Q. in-
terests of Vickery and Field. He was thus
engaged at the time of his death.
Commendatore Antonio Grossardi, who has
been Italian Consul-General for Australasia
for more than ten years, has been promoted
to New York. Commendatore Agostino Fer-
rante, now Italian Consul in Philadelphia,
will take his place. The New York job is
a sizeable one, for there are nearly a million
and a quarter Italians in the city alone.
Probably the best-known sheep salesman
in Victoria was J. C. Stanford, of Powers,
Rutherford and Co., just dead at 84. He
was the doyen of the auctioneers of the
Flemington saleyards, where he had sold
cattle and sheep for 62 years. With his
parents he came from the Channel Islands
and landed here at the age of six. He ran
away to sea as a youngster and after a turn
on a sheep station settled down to his life s
business.
R. A. C. (“Reg”) Hockings, whose death
in Macassar is reported, was one of the
Queenslanders who have bulked big in the
pearl-shelling trade. Born in Brisbane, or
one of that city’s pioneer families, he was
some vears in commercial life, going to
Torres Straits with Jas. Clark, who then
maintained a large pearling fleet at Thurs-
day Island. As the result of Queensland
legislation he and his associates shifted to
the Aru Islands, in the Dutch East Indies.
Later. Hockings brought back his own sec-
tion of the fleet— the Wanetta Pearling Co.
—to Thursday Island, and in course of time
retired from the co. and settled down to
cocoanut-growing in the Celebes.
J. T. Lutey, who died at Fremantle at 56,
had held the Brownhill-Ivanhoe seat in the
Assembly for 15 years. Situated right on
the Golden Mile it is about the most impreg-
nable Labor fortress in the • State; its
former member, ex-Labor Premier Scaddan,
after he had left the party and accepted office
with' the other side, pluckily re-contested it
in 1917, but hadn’t the ghost , of a chance.
Lutey was a working miner, Bendigo-born,
he rose to be Chairman of Committees m the
last Labor Administration.
A. R. WALLIS, presi-
dent of the Trades
Hall Council (Melb.).
A. R. Wallis, re-
cently elected pve-
sident of Vic.
Trades Hall Coun-
cil, was . contem-
porary with J. P.
Jones, ex-Premier
Tunnecliffe, the
late Frank Hyatt,
Jack Curtin and
the late Senator
Russell, a school
of, bright young
men who had their
steps guided to-
war d s Socialism
when Tom Mann
was in Australia a
couple of decades
ago. He started
as organiser of the
Vic. Clothing
Trades and is the
main force behind
the present cam-
paign against
sweating in that
sector. When
Lang made his
famous effort to
convert Melbourne
to Langism, Wallis
caused a painful
stir by accepting
the chair at a
Lang meeting. He
has since been
pushing the indus-
trial wing of the
Trades Hall junta
towards a Lang Plan modified out of con-
sideration for local susceptibilities.
Prof. Wood Jones (Melb.) will not eat
the bread of idleness during the next vaca-
tion. He has accepted the job of tempor-
arily directing the studies of the young men
of the Peiping (Pekin) Medical College, while
its head is touring places where relics of
ancient man have been discovered. Jones,
who is one of the world’s authorities on
primitive man, will have under his charge
the famous Peking skull discovered near the
college. Scientists tried to get the relic
out of China, but the Celestial Government
refused to let it go; so the professor goes
to it. He will be accompanied by his wife,
whom he met and married at the Cocos
Islands, which her family owns and rules.
Ned Hanlon, Forgan Smith’s Home Secre-
tary, used to be a railwayman, and he had
a leading part in the strike of 1912. After
that he went to the w r ar, and wasn’t much
New Queensland Home Sec. HANLON.
heard of when he came back until 1926. In
that year Ithaca sent him to Parliament;
and within a year he was one of the best
debaters it had.
Yic. is not so rich in baronets as Maori-
land (B. 15/6/’32). Nowadays only two are
heard of —Edward McKenzie McKenzie, Who
turned up at a recent levee in kilts; and
John Barnwell, an elderly farmer up Alex-
andra way.
S.A. Leg. Council gets another newspaper-
man as a member, R. C. Mowbray, who runs
the “South Eastern Times” at Millicent, in
the Mount Gambier district. He was elected
without opposition for the vacancy caused
by the death of Lance Stirling.
Everard, U.A.P. member for Evelyn, who
beat Cotter by 40 votes to 12 for the Chair-
manship of Committees of Yic. Assembly,
had first to run the gauntlet of a combined
meeting of the parties on the right of the
Speaker. Sitting together the U.A.P.’s and
Cockies rejected in turn Groves, Old and
Lind; then Everard won by three votes from
Lieut.-Col. Knox. The four unsuccessful
ones have already had good pickings in the
last few years. Premier Argyle rejoiced at
having secured a joint meeting of the two
parties at last on-some issue. Everard is
the fruitgrowers’ chief champion in Parlia-
ment. Ilis dad was a member of the
Assembly for several years, having been
elected first in 1858.
At 70 “Good Old Piddo” is returning to
practise at the Bar. He will be chiefly seen
as an advocate i,n the Industrial jurisdic-
tion. There are some who don’t expect to
notice much difference.
It is expected that newly-appointed N. S.
Wales Divorce Court Judge Boyce will not
look on complacently while cases are strung
out. At the Bar he was never guilty of
that sort of thing, and has often shown his
distaste for it. Senior men are the worst
offenders in Sydney. “Why, you are as
tedious as a Silk!” one learned D.C. Judge
said lately to a junior who wasn’t getting on
as fast as his Honor wished.
A. Mair, new M.L.A. for Albury, told a
public meeting that, although not a rich
man, he would not hold on to a penny of
his Parliamentary salary above out-of-pocket
exes. —he would hand the balance to a com-
mittee to distribute amongst the unemployed.
Patrick Joseph Duggan, a veteran school-
master, has answered the last roll-call at
Oamaru at 77. H'e was a brother of Edmund
Duggan (Melbourne), actor, playwright and
scenario writer, and his pupils may be found
all over Australasia. For 55 years he was
secretary of branches of the Hibernian
Society, and counted Maurice Healy, M.P.,
brother of the late G.-G. of the Irish Free
State, among his classmates in Erin.
Argyle, Menzies, Macfarlan, Kent-Hughes
and Harold Cohen are the University gradu-
ates in Vic.’s all-party Ministry. Minister
Jones, M.L.C., who had to be content with
a limited primary-school education before he
faced up to the world, is on the University
Council as one Parliamentary rep., and
Marcus Wettenhall, a Cockyite, who got no
further than matriculation, is another. A
third will be chosen to succeed the late Bob
Solly. Maurice Blackburn is Labor’s sole
’Varsity man in either House. The other
parties have 12.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tobacco Debentures Now!
Under the Scullin tariff, since amended,
the immediate outlook for the tobacco-
grower became so enticing that there was
a rush to get into the industry. The sale
of forestry bonds had become increasingly
difficult; so Amalgamated Forests (Aus-
tralia), Ltd., one of the interlocking units
of the Moulton bond-selling group, turned
its attention to the vending of so-called
tobacco debentures. As generally understood
a debenture, like a mortgage, implies the
existence of special protection for both capi-
tal and interest. No interest is offered in
respect of certain Pomonal debentures, nor is
there any guarantee in respect of capital
redemption, or that the dividends spoken of
will be realised. Actually the debenture-
holders shoulder all the risks worth men-
tioning, while the co. itself enjoys a inore
or less secured income on a commission
basis.
The co. is at the moment offering 400 deben-
tures (B series) at £3O apiece in respect of
100 acres of land, said to be suitable for
tobacco-growing, at Pomonal (Vic.). For this
fee, plus a commission of 10 p.c. on sales, and
a further 10 p.c. of any net profits, the co.
undertakes to plant the area with tobacco,
instal the necessary plant for flue-curing,
storage, etc., and generally to care for, har-
vest and market the crops until Dec. 31, 1941,
when the debentures are said to “mature.”
All exes, in connection with planting, har-
vesting, etc., are to be paid from the
proceeds of each year’s crop. Debenture-
holders, therefore, are entitled to nine-
tenths of whatever net profits are earned.
Out of this nine-tenths a “cumulative” divi-
dend of 10 p.c. p.a. on the amount invested
is spoken of; the balance is to be placed in
trust, and paid as an accumulated bonus,
together with accrued interest (rate not
mentioned), at the end of 1941. In what
way the money held in trust is to be
invested is not mentioned either; presum-
ably it is to be re-employed in the tobacco-
growing business. It is estimated, though on
what basis is not stated, that accumulated
profits and interest on each debenture will
amount to £173 within the contractual
period, or to £450 if invested with the
trustee for a further 10 years. The £173 is
equal to an average of 47§ p.c. p.a. for 10
years, with your original capital (£3O) back
as well; again allowing for return of capital,
the £450 works out at an average of 70
p.c. p.a. over 20 years. They are audacious
estimates in times like the present. The
10 p.c. “cumulative” dividend in this case
means nothing; it stands in nobody’s way.
Apart from whatever may be contained in
the trust deed, the only security offered
debenture-holders in respect of both their
capital and dividends is the prospectus esti-
mates.
What becomes of the land when these
pseudo-debentures “mature” is not made
plain in the prospectus; apparently it is
retained by the co. The title deeds of the
freehold are to be deposited with the trus-
tee as a guarantee that the co. will do the
cultivating, planting and marketing, etc.,
and collect its 10 p.c. on sales and on net
profits.
As a sheltered industry tobacco-growing
is assured of a large but not unlimited local
market. At the moment good profits are to
be won from soundly financed and well man-
aged farms, provided the soil, climate, etc.,
and quality of the leaf are right. As to the
future, chief dangers lie in the wrong selec-
tion of soil and/or climate, along with the
possibility of over-capitalisation and over-pro-
duction. as Maoriland and S. African experi-
ences show. After the tariff on imported leaf
was raised to ss. 2d. a pound, and excise left
at 2s. 4d., the average price to the Australian
grower sprang from Is. 9d. to 3s. a pound.
Recently the Federal Government lowered the
tariff to 35., raised the excise to 4s. 6d., and
arranged for growers to be paid an average
of 2s. 3d. a pound for the current season’s
crop, which, owing to seasonal conditions,
is variously estimated at from five million
to ten million pounds. The Tariff Board
figures future Australian consumption at
about 171 million pounds. Last season the
acreage under tobacco in the Commonwealth
expanded tenfold, reaching approximately
20,000 acres. Additional areas have since
been planted, and, given good seasons, the
yield looks like overtaking manufacturers’
requirements of local leaf in a year or two.
At the moment fair leaf can be bought in
the world’s markets at about 7d. a pound.
The cost of local production varies, of course.
The Government expert in Victoria puts
it at about Is. per pound; so export would
be unprofitable with world prices and ex-
change as they are. What the local price
will be in the future it is impossible to say
at the moment.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1922 237,039 65,641 15 p.c. = 137,527 651,297
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd. (N.S.W.), bought out.
Premiums on new shares, £37,500.. 688,797
1923 230,833 65,324 15 p.c. = 145,027 709,279
1924 290,259 64,569 15 „ „ 145,027 789,942
Bagot, Shakes and Lewis, Ltd. (S.A.), bought out.
Premiums on new shai-es, £186,113 976,055
Additions to reserves, £280,947.. 1,257.002
1925 372,313 63,346 15 p.c. = 212.592 1,353.377
Premiums on new shares, £187,500.. 1,540,877
1926 378.325 63,233 15 p.c. = 250,000 1,605.969
1927 373,377 63,091 15 „ „ 262,500 1,653,755
Premiums on new shares, £187,500. . 1,841,255
1928 374,847 62,967 15 p.c. = 287,500 1.865,635
Badgery Bros., Ltd. (N.S.W.), bought out.
1929 381,572 62,925 15 p.c. = 300.000 1,884,282
Premiums on new shares, £199,543 . . 2.083,825
1930 253,465 62,646 10 p.c. = 200,000 2,074.644
Premiums on new shares, £457 ..2,075.101
1931 177,529 62,553 5 p.c. = 120,000 2,070,077
1932 125,847 62,553 2$ „ „ 60,000 2,073,371
It used to be a fairly steady 15 p.c. pro-
position for the 20 years to the close of
accounts in 1929. But the recent quick
development (hastened by the absorption of
Harrison, Jones and Devlin and Badgery
Bros., in N. S. Wales, and of Bagot, Shakes
and Lewis, in S. Aus.), followed by the
collapse of prices, has greatly increased the
risks and reduced the earnings. Of the
£2,400,000 of capital no less than £1,149,151,
which brought with it £761,113 of share
premiums, has been gathered during the last
eight years. The new money, together with
about a million of borrowed funds, has been
laid out mainly in advances on stock and
station properties, etc., all over Australia.
These advances had a book value of
£5,367,542 at March 31.
For 12 months to that date an extra 28,409
bales came into the co.’s wool-stores; but
the number sold and shipped (280,283) was
59.447 less, due to the heavy carry-over in
1930. The average price for the Australian
clip, which was £34 19s. Bd. a bale in 1924-
25, was about £ll for the last season, when
the slip was 3s. a bale, notwithstanding the
exchange premium and the fall in sterling;
and there has been almost as steep a de-
cline in prices for cattle, sheep and hides.
So, after setting aside whatever was con-
sidered necessary for contingencies, there
was a contraction of £131,085 in the year’s
gross earnings, making the slide £414,572
over the last three years:—
Provi-,
Gross Debenture dent Net
Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
£ £ . £ £ £
1922.. 377,655 138,616 65,641 2000 171,398
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, I.td., purchased.
1923.. 431,112 197,779 65,324 2500 165,509
1924.. 498,039 205.280 64,569 2500 225,690
Bagot, Shakes and Lewis, i.td., purchased.
1925.. 806,413 429,100 63.346 5000 308,967
1926. . 846.050 462,725 63,233 5000 315,092
1927.. 855,272 476,894 63,091 5000 310,286
1928.. 889,060 509,213 62,967 5000 311,880
Badgery Bros., Ltd., purchased.
1929.. 914,201 527,629 62,925 5000 318,647
1930.. 795,752 539,787 62,646 2500 190,819
1931.. 630,714 450,685 62,553 2500 114,976
1932.. 499,629 371,782 62,553 2000 63,294
£25,000 drought exes.
A saving of £78,903 in exes, left the net
result at 2.6 p.c. on capital as against 4.7,
9.5, 15.9, 36.3, 17.7, 18.9, 21.8 and 23.3 p.c.
back to 1924 —the persistent slip is due to
the inflow of new capital and then slump.
So the div. was again cut in halves, re-
ducing it to 2i p.c.
All this, the exchange position and poli-
tical developments have caused wide fluctua-
tions in the market for the scrip. Three
years ago the pound shares fetched 51s. 3d.;
the figure dropped to 18s. 6d. before the fall
in sterling, then it strengthened to 2Ss. 6d.
in December last, but was back to 245. lOd.
early in May. Following the dismissal of
the Lang Government it rose sharply to
265. 3d. on an ovei*-bought market, which,
disappointed by the further cut in the div.,
had shortened its bid to 225. at last week-
end. The return at 225. is 2.2 p.c. on a
21 p.c. div. basis, or 51 p.c. on a 6 p.c. dis-
tribution ; and share premiums make 6 p.c.
worth only 3.6 p.c. on nearly half the capital.
To pay the debenture interest and 6 p.c. on
capital as it now stands would call for but
3.5 p.c. on total funds (debentures, capital
and reserves combined) at March 31. Owing
to the unsettled condition of Europe and the
appreciation of sterling, Australian wool
prices have eased, and the outlook is uncer-
tain at the moment.
The next table shows the financial struc-
ture and other things:—
Liabilities.
1920. 1930. 1931. 1932.
£ £ £ £
Capital . . 773,010 2,399,892 2,400,000 2,400,000
Debentures 1,504,648 1,418,702 1,418,702 1,418,702
Other liabili-
ties .. 118,411 1,309,596 944,736 780,283
Assets
Liquid assets 647,455 398,515 342,697 401,710
Advances .. 1,967,430 5,886,051 5,608,741 5,367,542
Pro perties
and stock 220,723 290,904 251.907 266,659
P r e m ises,
etc. .. 212,803 649,158 643,968 632,828
Other assets 64,105 166,564 124,940 104,731
The reduction in the book value of advances
and other assets enabled the board to streng-
then liquids by £59,013, and knock £164,453
net off the outside debt. The amount com-
ing to sundry creditors (£290,849) was re-
duced by £260,723, and an extra £96,270 of
deposits was gathered; mortgages (£44,800)
were unchanged. Leaving debentures out
of the reckoning, liquids amounted to 10s. 3d.
of every pound of outside money in the
business at March 31, as against 6s. Id. two
years earlier. The other 9s. 9d. was covered
more than 14 times by advances alone. Pro-
perties and stock are mainly the co.’s runs
in Queensland and N. S. Wales. The deben-
ture debt, a reminder of the ’nineties, is
interminable, except that the co. has the
right to purchase.
Mark Foy's, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends v
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1922.. 90.518 16,374 13 p.c. = 58,500 15,944 181,958
Profit from sale of assets .. 29,338 211,296
1923.. 497 16,374 15 p.c. = 67,500 35,623 .246,919
1924.. 16,374 15 „ „ 67,500 32,447 279.360
1925.. 122.395 16,374 15 „ „ 67,500 38.521 317,887
1920.. 107.690 16,374 15 „ „ 67,500 23,816 341,703
1927.. 133.021 16,374 15 „ „ 71,250 45,397 387,100
Assets written down, £112,500 .. 274,600
3 928.. 100.901 16.374 15 p.c. = 75,000 9,527 284,127
Reserve adjustment, £5500 .. 278,627
1929.. 76,272 16,374 10 p.c. = 50,000 9,898 288,525
Reserve adjustment, £7500 .. .. 281,025
1930.. 61,359 16,374 8 p.c. 40,000 4,985 286,010
Reserve adjustment, £25,500,. .. 260,510
1931.. 20,80*6 16,374 Nil 223,330
Reserve adjustment, £4,600 . . . . 218.830
1932.. 37,652 Nil Nil 181,178
After the public became interested in this
cash-drapery concern in 1909 it made extra-
ordinary progress. Lumped together the
div. and bonus climbed from 8 p.c. to 15 p.c.,
and wide margins remained. Thus, after
rubbing £lOO.OOO of goodwill out of the
accounts, and transferring £150,000 from
reserves to capital. £387,100 had been
accumulated to support and assist a share
register total of £772,902, including £272.902
of 6 p.c. pref. money, at the close of accounts
in 1927. Then it was decided to reconstruct
the co.’s main premises. The old building
was pulled down, and with it £112.500 of
reserves were demolished. The new store
included an extra five storeys, and tfie board
went to its bankers for the money, raising
the overdraft to £349,337 at March 15, 1931.
The work interfered with earnings, and the
5 p.c. bonus was jettisoned in ’29, leaving
the div. at 10 p.c. It dropped to 8 P-c- m
the following year. But falling prices,
lighter pay-bags and the spread of unemploy-
ment further reduced turnover, while the
larger premises, taxation and the weight ot
the overdraft have made it impossible to get
exes, back in proportion; thus losses instead
of profits have shown up for the last two
years.
During the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts trading ill N. S. Wales was handi-
capped by political misfortunes, and though
the downward swing of prices lost its momen-
tum, stocks proved troublesome, especially
in the furniture section. After taking
the item into account at £53,153 below
the 1931 figure, gross earnings (£220519)
fell away £42,170, making the drop £169,299
over the last two years. Exes. (£258,170)
were pulled back £25,325, leaving the loss
£16.846 greater than the previous years at
£37,652; and both lots of shareholders went
hungry. Also, there was an unexplained
reduction of £4500 in the tax reserve (now
flS.000), thus reducing the lay-by to
£181.178 at March 15.
The financial position slipped, of course: —
1920. 1926. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £722,902 £722,902 £772,902 £772,902
Liabilities .. 27,181 35,572 383,801 390,053
Property .. 306,000 371,641 723,629 731,386
Plant, etc .. 20,805 76,420 160,260 163,320
Stocks . . 494,611 630,482 453,096 399,943
Book debts . . 17,114 62,195 38,300 36,716
Cash, etc. . . 92,818 35,126 12,935 12,769
During the year £21,635 was added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors
(£56,100), and £15,383 was clipped off the
overdraft (£333,954). Including stocks,
which have been reduced by £230,539 since
1926, the more or less liquid surplus
(£59,375) was £61,155 lighter than at the
close of accounts in 1931.
Now that prices have steadied somewhat
stocks may become less troublesome. Results
will largely depend upon the extent to -which
turnover can be livened. The outlook in
this respect has improved. The co. manu-
factures much of its own requirements, and
enjoys an extensive goodwill. But at the
close of next accounts there will be £32,548
coming to the prefs. This and the difficulty
of further reducing overhead may stand in
the way of the ords. for a while. The market
prices them at 10s., as against 495. three
years ago. Allowing for the accrued div.
(Is. 2d.), the prefs. at 13s. 6d. return 9.6
p.c. The net tangible backing is £3 9s. lid.,
prefs.; 275. 3d., ords.
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd.
, Dividends ,
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., f Loss. (6 p.e.) Ordinaries. serves, serves.
1922.. 90,074 12,231 Nil 53,623
Deficit.
Assets apparently written down, £119,400 65,777
Profit. Reserves.
Capital reduced £87,000 .. .. . . 21,223
1923.. 26,856 12,231 Nil 14.625 35,848
1924.. 50,092 12,373 4 p.c. = 20,201 17,518 53,366
1925.. 59,233 12,514 5 „ „ 25,252 21,467 74,833
1926.. 66,670 12,598 6 „ „ 30,302 23,770 98,603
Reserve.taken in, £15,000.. .. .. 113,603
1927.. 70,328 12,898 7 p.c. = 35,442 21,988 135,591
Transferred to Provident Fund, £5000.. 130,591
1928.. 73,515 13,152 7£ p.c.= 39,031 21,332 151,923
1929.. 77,090.13,152 8 „ ~ 41,633 22,305 174,228
1930.. 73,276 13,152 8 „ „ 41,633 18,491 192,719
Assets written down, £15,000 .. .. 177,719
1931.. 54,272 13,152 6 p.e. = 31,224 9,896 187,615
Assets written down, £20,000 .. .. 167,615
Hurricane losses, £12,400 .. .. 155,215
1932.. 27,254 13,152 4 p.c. = 20,816 148,501
Slump and a hurricane have bitten deeply
into the figures of this big Fiji merchant
and plantation-owner. The price of copra,
upon which activity in island trading largely
depends, fell from £27 a ton in March, 1928,
to £l4 15s. three years later. In. June
last year the figure was £lO 10s., but had
recovered to £l7 when the books closed.
The quantity of copra exported from Fiji
w r as 33,226 tons in 1929, and 16.917 last
year, when the contraction was 6965 tons.
Other prices sagged, too, along with trade
generally.
So, despite a little benefit from exchange,
there was a drop of £31,587 in the year’s
gross earnings (£104,073) . Exes. (£80,463, in-
cluding provision for sundry losses) were
£6056 lighter; actual working charges were
got back about £13,000. In addition re-
serves were visibly tapped for £20,000 to
write down the book value of plantations,
and for £8756 to cover part of the losses in
connection with the 1931 hurricane. A
further £3644 on account of the hurricane
(making £12.400) was charged against the
year’s earnings. Disregarding the £3644. and
allowing for the pref. div., enough remained
to show but 2.7 p.c. on the £520,407 of ord.
capital as against 7.9, 11.5. 12.2, 11.6, 11.3,
10.7 and 9.2 p.c. back to 1925. Still, 4 p.c.
was distributed, making an average of 5.5 p.c.
over the last decade, though reserves had to
be tapped for a further £6714 to do it,
reducing them to £148,501 at March 31.
However, the co. is well equipped to make
progress again immediately opportunity
offers, as the following comparison of bal-
ance-sheet figures shows: —
1922. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. .. £795,887 £739,613 £739,613
Overdrafts . . .. 145,763 33,603
Mortgages .. .. 21,675
Deposits . . . . 35,985 30,528 25,532
Sundry creditors . . 66,088 36,705 22,512
Plantations .. .. 73,269 89,051 67,174
Land, buildings, plant, etc. 233,823 278,431 285,430
Stocks, etc 225,397 228,490 168,985
Investments and cash.. 248,212 207,403 245,604
Capital value of
branches, etc. .. 212,461 142,234 94,438
Book debts, etc. .. 144,518 108,773 97,596
Last year the book value of stocks was
reduced by £59,505, debtors’ balances by
£11,177 and the capital value of branches by
£47,796. Thus the management was able
to wipe out the overdraft (£33.603 at the
previous balance), knock £4996 off mort-
gages, £14,193 off the amount coming to
sundry creditors and strengthen cash and
investments by £38.261. Cash and public
securities alone (£62.149) more than cov-
ered all outside liabilities when the books
closed, though the more or less liquid sur-
plus ( £558.639, including stocks) slipped
£27.425 during the twelvemonth.
The immediate outlook in Fiji is for a
bigger tonnage of both copra and sugar, and
prices are better than they were, though
they lack strength. On Sydney ’Change
the pound ords. fetch 17s. Allowing for
exchange at the current rate, the return at
that figure is 5.2 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis.
At 19s. 9d. the 6 p.c. cum. prefs. return
6.8 p.c. The net tangible backing is £4 Is,,
prefs.; 255. 9d., ords.
Swan Portland Cement (W.A.)
Net To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
Preliminary exes .. .. £8,273 I . ,
1928*.. 16,708 10 p.c. = 6,315 10,393 )
1929 .. 18,101 1 i„ „ 12,158 5,943 7,763
1930 .. 20,773 12* „ ~12,528 8,245 16,008
1931 . . 12,302 9 „ 11,052 1,250 17,258
1932 . . 13,210 9 „ „ 11,052 2,158 19,416
*ll£ months..
It used to be the Westralian Portland Cement
Co., which set up works on the river-bank
near Perth in 1920. The Lake Clifton'scheme
failed, so a license was obtained from the
Government to take shell from the Swan
River. The quality of the cement improved;
but though the co. struggled on till 1927, it
then went into liquidation.
The undertaking passed to the present co.
f0r.£110,998, or approximately half the figure
at which the old co. was capitalised. No
goodwill figured in the deal. With the busi-
ness on an even keel and a flying start, the
management was able to capture more,'ofThe
local trade, despite keen competition from
Victorian and English manufacturers; and,
over the last five years, shareholders have
averaged 10.6 p.c., and £19,416 of free re-
serves had accumulated at the end of Feb-
ruary. In Westralia the slump in construc-
tion work has not been quite so pronounced
as in the Eastern States, and there was an
encouraging improvement in activity: towards
the close of last accounts'. For the 12 months
to that date the profit claimed was 10.7. p.c.
on capital as against 10, 20.7 and 18:2 p.c.
for the three preceding years, and tne 9 p.c.
div. was repeated.
In concerns of this kind actual profits
largely depends upon whether allowances for
depreciation, etc., prove to be adequate. Last
year £11,300 net was added to the reserve for
this purpose, raising it to £50,006, equal to
33.3 p.c. of the book value of the plant at
Feb.. 29. Appearances are, therefore,'that
the provisions have not been skimped.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances: —
1928. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £97,269 £117,538 £123,040 £123,040
Liabilities .. 8,161 7,738 3,001 1,98)
Freeholds . . 10,373 14,054 14,226 14.262
Plant.. .. 91,647 125,479 149,327 149,971
Stocks, etc. .. 8,757 11,677 9,495 6,193
Book debts . . 9,650 8,975 5,681 10,065
Cash, etc. ~ 3,941 23,923 8,703 22,664
Most of last year’s surplus earnings, includ-
ing the allowance for depreciation, were put
into the bank. The more or less liquid sur-
plus (£36,941) was £16,063 stronger than
at the previous balance. Modernising addi-
tions and improvements have been made to
plant to the benefit of costs, and paid for
out of earnings. At the moment the board is
considering the installation of the latest type
of grinding mill.
The co.’s outlook at the moment is better
than it was 12 months ago. The fully-paid
pound shares are covered by net tangibles
with a book value of 235. 2d.; there is another
Bs. Id. in the depreciation reserve.
Automobile Fire and General
Bonus, Dividends ——\
to Prefs. Nominal
Sur- Policy- 8 To Re- Re-
April, plus, holders, p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1923.. 997 209 797 400
1924.. 3,556 2QO 8 p.c. - 432 2,924 3,324
1925.. 6,905 1250 200 8 „ „ 586 4,869 8,193
1926.. 14.791 3000 200 8 „ „ 964 10,627 18,820
Premiums on new shares, £694 .. 19,514
1927.. 17.461 4500 200 8 p.c. = 1136 11,625 31,139
Premiums on new shares, £330 .. 31,469
1928.. 8,827 4011 200 8 p.c. = 1268 3,348 34,817
Premiums on new shares, £1135 .. 35,952
10 p.c.
1929. .11,011 3196 250 10 p.c. =2042 5,523 41,475
Premiums on new shares, £521 .. 41,996
1930.. 5,986 4381 250 10 p.c. =2250 41,101
12 p.c.
1931.. 9,996 3745 300 12 „ „ 2700 3,251 44,352
1932.. 8,764 2796 300 12 „ „ 2700 2,968 47,320
Shareholders in this little 10-year-old
have enjoyed a lift, in the div., despite slump.
That is mainly because reserves equal to
nearly twice the paid capital had been accu-
mulated and invested mostly in Government
securities at the close of last accounts. lor
the 12 months to that date interest, etc.,
turned in £2351, Or 9.4 p.c. on capital.
The co. was given a flying start by the
Royal Auto. Club of Vic., but severed its
connection with that body about four years
ago, when it was decided to' accept all classes
of risks, and “Fire and General” was welded
into the title. The connections have since
been strengthened by ■ the patronage of the
United Travellers’ Association of Australia
and the “Herald” Touring Club, and though
a smaller amount of mixed business has
been written, underwriting has continued to
show satisfactory surpluses : —•
Net Pre- Loss Expense
miums. Claims. Exes. Rate. Rate.
1925.. £26,055 £6,200 £13,800 23.8 p.e. 53.0 p.c.
1926.. 50,819 16,871 22,520 33.2 „ 44.3 „
1927.. 83,028 29,206 38,370 35.2 „ 46.2 „
1928.. 63,711 41,501 16,065 65.1 „ 25.2 „
1929.. 58,765 34,999 15,859 59.6 „ 27.0 „
1930 51,344 29,469 18,801 57.3 „ 36.6 „
1931.. 43,380 21,650 14,307 49.9 „ 32.9 „
1932.. 38,989 16,182 16,394 41.5 „ 42.0 „
The most encouraging feature there is the
recent downward trend of the loss ratio, due
largely to the patronage already referred to.
Owing to the drop in net premiums and
spring in exes., last year’s underwriting sur-
plus was £lOlO lighter at £6413. Of this
£2796 was set aside for bonuses (5 p.e.) to
policy-holders. Thus, including interest,
etc., there was £5968 (=23.8 p.c. on capi-
tal ) available for shareholders; so the 12
p c div was repeated with comfort.
At April 30 policy-holders could see net
tangibles equal to 185 p.c. of the year’s net
nremiums • it is more than is usually con-
sidered adequate. There was £13,996 com-
ing to outsiders. Cash, book debts, etc..
totalled £6147: public securities, £45 593:
freehold etc., £43.327. Capital is in 50,000
£1 shares paid to 10s. There are 5000 8 p.c.
cum prefs., which advance with the ords.
beyond that rate. The .scrip is not listed.
(Continued on page 16.)


ft
■ '
Ms
I
ft
rumKM ftV
111
.
immma
1
■
:
S®
g?:3
IO 8’
20^1 ; -
Also in Round Hermetically
Sealed Airtight Tins of 50,
and Boxes of 50 and 100.
Cork and Plain Barristers.
Distinctions vast come thick and fast
They’ve called us the
Our fame is great —in every srare
We re very popular.
344-3 B-s'l
CAPSTANS
PURE VI RG IN I A
HOW CORK TIPPED OR PLAIN


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coddison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
:i= * * S
THAT MORTGAGE.—Thank Heaven for the Mora-
torium, say the Mortgagors, but the Moratorium
won’t last for ever, and, anyhow, the Interest has
to be paid. Protect the security, just as you do
the building against fire, by a Life Policy. That
will repay the Mortgage should you die or when
you reach retiring age. Half the battle is. over
if your dependants can face a hostile world without
debts. Ask the T. and G. Mutual Life for its
Mortgage Policy. Ring or write any of its Offices.
—Advt. [7
AMP
Happy are the families who
are protected by the A.M.P.
a
I-
y a
lu
v;
i
1,
«a<5
m
A
ir~z
WA
m
A.M.P. Policy for £500 costs
only a few shillings a week
THERE is not a man in the land who cannot afford to give his
wife and family the protection of an A.M.P. policy; the cost
is much less than most people think.
A man in good health, aged 27, can have an A.M.P. whole-life
policy for £500, for a quarterly investment of £2/17/1, which
is less than five shillings a week.
A policy for £500 is an excellent start for any man to make. It
is not enough, of course, hut it is a good beginning; a beginning
any man may feel proud to make. The £5 00 will grow with bonuses
(it will double in time) and, as his earnings increase, he can take
out another £500, and another, until his family is adequately
protected.
Early membership in the A.M.P. Society is a wise step for a man
to take. The earlier he starts to assure, the less it will cost him.
The A.M.P. is the largest mutual life office in the Empire. It has
assets of £86,600,000. It is impregnable. Don't deny yourself
the peace of mind that membership gives. Use this coupon to
find how little it will cost
USE THIS COUPON FOR INFORMATION
TO THE
Australian Mutual Provident Society,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.I.A., General Manager.
1 should like to feel that I had made adequate provision for my family.
Yoxi may —
(1) Send an officer to talk things over.
(2) Send me full particulars by post.
NAME
ADDRESS
Cox Bros. Reconstruction
The parent co., Cox Investments, Ltd.,
owns all the 104,250 ords. in Cox Bros.
(Aust.), Ltd., which operates drapery and
home-furnishing stores in Vic., S. Aus., W.A.
and Tas. The present working co. brought
together three separate subsidiaries in 1925;
and up to 1930, when turnover (mainly on
a t.-p. basis) was brisk, 20 p.c. divs. were
handed to the parent, which paid two 10
p.c. and an 8 p.c. div. on its own ords. dur-
ing that time. Both cos. showed losses in
1931.
The public is interested in the 104,250
9 p.c. prefs. of the working co., and in both
the prefs. and ords. of the holding co. Apart
from the slackening in home-furnishing, etc.,
which makes profit-earning at present very
difficult, the working co. is now faced with
the possibility of heavy loss on the lOU’s
of its boom-time customers. These people
owed £341,595 at July 31 last, against which
there is a bad debts reserve of £42,008. The
working co. then owed the parent £158,222,
and outsiders *.±00,913. Super-tax (10 p.c. )
must be paid on the interest received by the
Investment Co. from Cox Bros. To avoid this
and the duplication of administrative exes.,
and to bring about co-operation between the
various classes of shareholders (otherwise
liquidation of the business might result)
amalgamation of the two cos. is proposed.
The prefs. in Cox Investments are at
present in the strongest position, because the
parent’s deposits with the working co. rank
before the prefs. in that co. Also, the sur-
plus of the deposits (plus interest) over the
parent’s pref. capital and div. arrears is
equal to ss. 6d. per parent’s ord. share; so
these ords. have an equity in priority to the
working co.’s prefs. for that amount. Thus,
the parent’s prefs. are to be offered 116 7 p.c.,
Ist cum. prefs. and 12 ords. (to compensate
for the loss of 2 p.c. in interest) in a recon-
structed working co. for every 100 prefs. at
present held. The ords. in the holding co.
(44,000 have been forfeited) are to be
offered 30 Ist prefs. (equal to 6s. per
share) and 70 ords. in the new work-
ing co. for every 100 shares now held. The
prefs. in Cox Bros, are to receive 118 new 7
p.c. 2nd prefs. (ranking after the Ist’s for
capital and divs.) and 6 ords. for every 100
shares now held. Capital of the reconstructed
working co. would then be £372,126 in
167,475 first and 123,015 second 7 p.c. prefs.,
and 81,636 ords. Leaving out inter-company
holdings, the capital of the two present cos.
combined totals £308.500, of which £228,250
is in 9 p.c. prefs. Though the new work-
ing co. will thus be capitalised at £63.626
more than the two old ones (the difference
represents funding of div. arrears, and com-
pensating shares), the annual pref. div.
charge would be £lB5 less.
On a capital basis the priority rights of
the various shareholders seem to have been
strictly observed in the proposal. As far
as future divs. are concerned, the ords. and
prefs. in Cox Investments are favored at
the expense of prefs. in the work-
ing co. to the extent of about £3OOO
a year. This could have been avoided
by creating a third class of preference shares,
ranking with the firsts for capital, but after
the seconds for divs. On holdings in the two
existing cos. the distribution of profits in
the new co. works out as follows: Firstly,
8.2 p.c. to the parent’s prefs. and 2.1 p.c. to
its ords., shared rateably; secondly, 8.3 p.c. to
Cox Bros.’ prefs.; balance shared rateably
amongst holding co.’s prefs., holding co.’s
ords., working co.’s prefs. and fractional
shares in the proportions of 18.2, 68.4, 7.7
and 5.7 p.c. respectively.
Broken Hill is financing a few prospect-
ing parties, and something worth while may
be dug out of the Mannahill district (S.A.)
—about half-way between the Barrier and
Terowie. All that country is mineralised,
and it produced Teetulpa, one of the best
of S.A.’s gold rushes —though that isn’t say-
ing much. Two or three likely surface shows
are being scratched at present: none of the
syndicates have enough capital to do more.
* * *
An expedition of 20 men under the leader-
ship of C. H. Chapman, of Roma, has been
formed in Brisbane to search for gold in
the little-known country nor’-west of Alice
Springs. The party includes experienced
miners, a metallurgist, assayer, -water-boring
expert and a wireless operator. The equip-
ment, which includes coring plant capable
of going to 600 ft., an electric water-finder,
diamond drill and wireless, will be carried
on a couple of two-ton trucks and a utility
waggon. A start is to be made from Ten-
nant’s Creek, where a depfft will be estab-
lished, some 250 miles north of Alice
Springs. The expedition plans to explore
nearly 700,000 square miles of country.
❖ ❖ ❖ sfc
During May Golden Surprise, North Arm
(Q.), took out its second crushing—l 76
tons for 3940 z.. equivalent to £4 15s. per
ton. At the 50ft. level the reef has been
driven on for 230 ft., and shows good values
over a width of Ift. The battery is now
working two shifts, aim a pump has been
installed at the creek. Twenty men are
employed. On the Golden Wonder, near by,
costeening is in progress on a quartz lode
2ft. 6in. wide.
#
A promising iron-stained outcrop in por-
phyry country has been located *on the
United Empire lease, near Chillagoe (Q.).
The width of lode is 12ft., and the length
exposed 1000 ft. A sample over a width of
10ft. assayed 4dwt. gold, 19oz. silver and
12 p.c. lead. Development work is in hand.
-•!= !l« if- s&
James Bowry has taken an option over
some leases at Lolworth, Charters Towers
(N.Q.). on behalf of an Adelaide syndi-
cate, which is also interested in Mt. Coolon
(N.Q.), Broken Hill and some Westralian
mining properties.
* * *
The Diamond Drill Syndicate, which is
testing the ground at St. Patrick’s Reef,
Charters Towers (N.Q.), did not get any
promising colors in the first hole. A second
one is now being drilled.
* * * *
There was mild excitement at Edie Creek
(New Guinea) when carpenters recently
began to remove the Government buildings
on the reserve to a new site. The abandon-
ment of the reserve means that at least nine
new claims will be available for alluvial
mining. They are to be balloted for, and
may turn out to be a lucky dip for the suc-
cessful candidates, for the area is right on
the gold-bearing run.
* * * *
o^.^ e „View and Star’s yield for May was
fine ounces from 32,693 tons. Assuming
tne value of gold in London continues round
about ±o 14s. per fine ounce, and that the
whole proceeds of the above consignment is
remitted to Australia, the yield would be
worth about £lOO,OOO in Australian currency.
In addition there is the gold bounty, 2s. 9d.
P*r r fine ounce, to be added later. Portion
ot the proceeds, however, may be retained in
London.
* * * *
Encouraged by the high price of gold.
W- A. prospectors are searching for it in
great style. Private owners are erecting
three new treatment plants at promising
spots along the main strike of the Yilgarn
lodes, over a length of 15 miles. In addi-
tion to the revenue expected from the leases
on which the mills will be erected, there is
plenty of other crushing in prospect.
* ft * *
t» en Hill Prop, is now testing the old
Kothsay, south of Yalgoo (W.A.). Thirty
years ago the show yielded thousands of tons
°dwt. ore; exchange has, of course, made
odwt. a different proposition from what it
used to be. One bore, to be followed by
others, has been put down
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
/ am a bondholder in N.Z. Perpetual
t orests; suppose the co. got into difficulties,
what is my liability, if any? —s72.
None, provided your bonds are fully-paid.
Ihe co. has contracted with bondholders to
do certain things, which are set out in the
terms or conditions of the bond. As a
guarantee that it will carry out its part of
the contract, the co. had lodged £589,479
in trust with the trustee for the bondholders
°f March. The trustee reports
that the co. has carried out its obligations
to date, and its ability to continue to do
so has been certified by the auditors to the
trustee. Suppose, however, that the co. did
get into difficulties, and failed to carry out
ms obligations to bondholders; then bond-
holders,. through their trustee, would have
a claim on some or all of the money held in
trust for maintenance purposes. When the
contract created by the bond is discharged
(broadly, it is a contract of maintenance),
the relationship between the forestry co. and
the trustee for bondholders will become one
of principal and agent, by reason of an
agreement recently entered into, whereby
the forestry co. has undertaken to harvest
and market the forest products on a commis-
sion basis. The trustee concerned is a
limited liability co., the Australasian Forestry
Bondholders’ Trust Go., Ltd. Provided bond-
holders have given it the powers it recently
asked for, they stand in the same position
as a beneficiary does to his trustee.
(1) Is production of gold in the future
lilccly to exceed demand for the metal?
(2) What of prices? —32l.
(1) No. In millions of dollars the Gold
Delegation of the Financial Committee of
the League of Nations figures world pro-
duction of gold for 1933 at 407; non-mone-
tary demand is put at 186, leaving 221 avail-
able for monetary purposes. Allowing for
average cover at 33 p.c. and for an increase
of 3 p.c. p.a. in the world’s note issues, the
221 would be about 55 short of requirements.
On the same basis the shortage is estimated
at 170 for 1940. (2) If the world is to
be freed of a continuously falling price-level,
the two chief monetary factors in the pro-
blem are (1) economy in the use of gold, and
(2) managed international credit: control.
Both call for international co-operation. The
first could be brought about through what is
now known as the gold exchange standard,
or by a reduction of the gold content of gold
coins or both, and the second probably
through the Bank of International Settle-
ments.
Can an ordinary business man act as a
stock- and share-broker icithout holding a
seat on the Stock Exchange? If so. what
would be his chances of success in this line?
—056.
Yes; but he could not operate on the
Exchange without being a member, and every
member must hold a seat. Moreover, a
member is prohibited by the rules from mak-
ing rebates of commissions, etc., to anyone
other than a member of a recognised Stock
Exchange. It would be practically impossible
for an outsider to successfully set up in the
stock and share business. Circumstances
would certainly compel him to do most of
his buying and selling through a member,
which means that, if the said outsider was
to be reimbursed, his clients would be pay-
ing a lot more than they need pay to have
their business transacted.
(1) Any method , other than levigation,
by which platinum may be extracted from
a clean concentrate of tin oxide? (2) Books
on the metallurgy of platinumj elementary
works on general metallurgy, and where
obtainable? —7o2.
(1) By careful panning platinum (s.g.
16-19) can be separated from tin oxide
(s.g. 0.4-7.3) by reason of difference in
specific gravity. A partial separation can
be made by means of a fine sieve (120 mesh),
the platinum passing through, or by smelt-
ing with lead and then cupelling. Another
way is by dissolving in Aqua Regia, then
precipitating with ammonium chloride and
recovered as a metallic sponge. (2) “Metals
and Metallic Compounds,” by Ulik R. Evans,
Yol. 111, p. 230 et seq. “The Mineralogy
of the Rarer Metals,” Cahen and Wooten,
p. 78 et seq. These may be consulted at
the Department of Mines, Sydney, at chief
libraries, or possibly obtained from Tait
Book Co., Queen-street, Melbourne. Refer-
ence works on general metallurgy are “Metal-
lurgy of Gold, Silver, Copper, Zinc.” the
I.C.S. series (Angus and Robertson, Sydney;
price 55.), and “An Introduction' tto the Study
of Metallurgy,” by W. C. Roberts-Austin
(Dymocks, Sydney; price, 375.). It would
be difficult to gain a working knowledge
from book study alone.
(1) Is yellow ochre used in the manufac-
ture of paint in Australia? (2) Locality
and cost? —424.
(1) Yes. (2) Chiefly S. Aus. ; various
localities. Prices vary from £1 to £6 per
ton for crude ochre, according to quality.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
S.W. (N.Q.): E. H. Evans, Guinea Gold, Brook-
man Buildings, Adelaide... .W.H.8.; Depends on
sum assured and date of maturity. The secretary
will tell you what surrender value is R.1.F.:
Bank of N. S. Wales, N.Z. Insurance and United
Insurance... .Investor 8.H.: No reliable idea of the
value of the whole property can be formed from
work done thus far. Behavior of lode on adjoining
block suggests that its continuation may pitch south:
but this remains to be proved... .T.Y.8.: (1) At
X?,J al, £ A
Po. o -7.’r l2^tj eXCee t! e ?i. th ° i. ll£C q fU , nd (£<4.297) by
.€34,715. _ But whether the fund covers liabilities
under policies is another question. Position in this
respect will not be known until actuary's figures
are made available, probably at the end of this year.
Taxation, legislative cuts in interest, a high ex-
pense rate and surrenders have increased the co.’s
difficulties. (2) Yes; write to the secretary....
Long’s Bridge: Co. not now at address given; will
„„ D , . “ B_. 8 _. ’ ...
make further inquiries. G.E.8.: tD Yes. (2)
Cannot say; the bonds have not an open market.
(3) Through the eo.; get in touch with the
secretary... .M.J.: Provided you are satisfied with
the interest, leave it where it i5,...C.0.: (1)
Age would be taken as 23 years. (2) A.M.P. But
bonuses on the same scale as of recent years cannot
be counted upon F.H.8.: (1) Bonuses depend
tipon annual surpluses, which are not likely to be
mi No ,i„rino- tr,,. i n +i,„ .
T oJ! aS 7* "'T
ul 1 ® P decade. Impossible to say definitely
what rates will be 12 years hence. (2) No. (3)
You can inspect list of shareholders at Registrar-
General’s Office on payment of 2s 8.J.H.: No.
Hop B.: (1) It is a speculation, not an invest-
ment. Thus far rock bars and sunken timber have
been the trouble. If the co. can get free of these
it should make a better showing.


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
The Cost of Living
Dear B., —“The plain fact is that the £
has enormously increased in purchasing
power,” The Bulletin says. Yes, I know
all about the price of wheat and wool. But
let me tell my own Melbourne experience.
I am a clerk, and my wages have been
drastically reduced. I live very frugally,
hut find it hard now to make ends meet.
To buy a suit of clothes of the same quality
as I used to afford, I would have to pay the
same price. I cannot afford to do this now,
so I buy a slop-made inferior one at about
half the price. This does not mean that
clothing is cheaper; it merely indicates that
I am buying an article only half as good as
the one I used to get. This applies to all
articles of men’s clothing. As to other
living costs, I pay the same amount for my
board and lodging; I pay the same tram and
train fares; pay the same price for my
newspapers; the same premium to my in-
surance company; and I pay more in taxes
than ever I have done before! My £ has
not increased in purchasing power. On the
contrary, it has decreased. —Yours, Tee.
What Can Be Done for Producers?
Dear Bulletin, —Make no mistake, the
position of the primary producer is getting
worse, in spite (or because) of the efforts
of “experts” and politicians. When Aus-
tralians realise that these producers cannot
keep on selling at less than cost, something
may be done to help them out. We cannot
control the price of staples overseas; but
we can to a large extent regulate costs at
home. Great relief would be given) by reduc-
tion of costs, such as interest, transport,
taxation and the machinery bill. Failure
to realise that the producers must keep on
producing, and pay their way, will lead to
more unemployment and national disaster.—
Yours, J.F. H.
Can We Hold Communism Off?
Dear B., —Lang is wrong; but the old
Tory ideas of sound finance and good gov-
ernment—-i.e., big profits for the big man
and low wages and long hours for the little
fellow—will do no longer. The “best men”
in the past have been those who, by means
fair or foul, have made big profits. In the
near future, however, the mob orators, the
militant union organisers and their kind,
with real grievances of the masses to play
upon, are in danger of becoming, for a time
at least, more powerful than the captains of
industry.
In the people’s genuine distress and justi-
fiable discontent there is ample material
everywhere for combustion, if suitably
fanned ; and it is up to our new Government
to see that Lang’s or Lenin’s ideas of read-
justment are given less fertile ground in
which to root and flourish.
I cannot say how it should be done; but
I know that the working man, with a gener-
ally lower standard of intelligence than his
boss, is always horribly suspicious of wage
cuts: and wages are the first things attacked
by Nationalist Governments, as a rule. I
would therefore suggest starting at the other
end, reducing the inflated debts on mort-
gages, and begging bank shareholders in
particular to be satisfied with very small
profits for a year or two. Nothing less will
convince the “wage plug” that the “tall
poppies” are as much concerned about recon-
struction as they profess to be. —Yours,
Limers.
Reduce Our Taxes!
Dear Bulletin, —The average citizen pays
fair taxation willingly, but considers it a
grievance that a Government can spend it
anyhow without reference to him. Nearly
every election in recent years has been won,
not by the sitting party, which should have
an advantage, but by the Opposition. It
really shows that the public is sick of the
politicians. They all start at the wrong
end with their economy stunts. They should
start with themselves. Our little State
(Tas.) could do with a 50 p.c. reduction of
members and a further reduction of 50 p.c.
in salary, the two representing a 75 p.c.
saving, and we are certainly no worse than
other States. I cannot see how any honest
man can have the hide to accept full-time
salary as a member when he devotes only
a few hours on a few days or nights a week
in a verjr few weeks a year to his job, and
most of that time is waste. Occasionally
we hear of an individual politician suggest-
ing reductions; but the National Govern-
ment has a large majority and could carry
ic through very quickly if members were
genuine instead of mere humbugs.—Yours.
Tasmanian.
The Federal Public Service
Dear Bulletin, —“Mr. Lyons can be too
kind.” Not only are Federal public servants
within the Federal Territory too numerous,
they also receive a generous territorial allow-
ance and are exempt from State income and
unemployment relief taxes, whilst their
fellows in Victoria suffer a “Premiers’ Plan”
reduction of their salaries, averaging 20 p.c.,
and pay Federal and State income taxes as
well as a heavy unemployment relief tax.
Much of the leeway we arc called upon to
make up is due to the gross (not to say
criminal) extravagance of Federal politi-
cians. It disgusts me to hear Federal
public servants whimpering over their
totally inadequate contributions to rehabi-
litation.—Yours. V. P. S.
Payment of Members
Dear Bulletin, —Half a century ago,
when M’s.P. gave their services, advocates
of payment contended that those dependent
on their earnings, no matter how brilliant,
were debarred from the Parliaments. On
the other side it was argued that if the
member became a full-time paid politician
ho would be more concerned about the votes
of lus constituents than the welfare of the
country. Time has demonstrated that the
average politician is a place- and pay-
hunter A comparison of the personnel of
recent fnil-time paid Parliaments with those
unpaid of 50 years ago is an interesting
Study, conclusively proving the superiority
<d the latter. In this time of stress, when
income has been reduced and taxation
heavily increased, highly-paid members of
Parliament should by example have shown
their patriotism; but the trifling sacrifice of
121 per cent, by Federal members, who, with-
out the approval of the taxpayers, increased
their salaries by 150 per cent., is evidence
that the full-time paid politician is more
concerned about his perquisites than his
country. Members should be paid reason-
ably for their time in attending Parliament.,
plus their travelling expenses to and fro.
This with the honor attaching to the posi-
tion should be sufficient to induce men of
character and capacity to serve their coun-
try, and so end the present dishonorable
system adopted by the professional vote-
catcher. —Yours etc., Edwabd T. Miles.
Unemployed and the Land
Dear Bulletin, —To attempt to “settle"
any old untrained mob on the land would
certainly “settle” them and the blocks, too.
What is wanted is something on the lines
of a labor colony (like those in Germany
and Holland), with strict discipline, good
plain food and hard work (six davs a week).
By such means the Salvation Army in
America has trained men in six to 12 months
and fitted them to take blocks which are
then allotted them, and the majority of
trainees have made good. My experience,
both long and very intimate, is that the
average newly-arrived unemployed in this
country is degenerate both physically and
mentally, and that it is necessary to have
a period on a farm colony under strict dis-
cipline to tune him up before he is fit for
a block. I also think that it would be wise
to work through the Salvation Army, the
Church Army or similar body, otherwise the
scheme would be too costly. Of course, there
are feeble-minded men—Aristotle’s “natural
slaves”—who require to be perpetually in a
subordinate position; but these are a minor-
ity ; discipline, hard work and good food can
make fanners of the majority.—Yours,
R. V. R.
Prohibitive Prices
Dear Bulletin, —There is no surplus
production of commodities in Australia
unless you count petrol bowsers, small retail
shops and civil servants as commodities.
I am a harassed housewife, and I speak
from bitter experience. The only trouble
with commodities is their prices are so high'
that no conscientious housewife can afford
to buy them. Take bananas. Here in the
nor’-west of N. S. Wales bananas, however
small and inferior, are always Is. 6d. a
dozen, except when they are 2s. So although
my family love them, we have no bananas,
as we know this commodity could never be
worth more than Is. per dozen on present
values, and we hiave to study values these
days. And peanuts! I
noticed a wail from a
Queensland peanut-
grower in a recent Bul-
letin. They got only
2d. per pound, and re-
marked that the Austra-
lian market is very limit-
ed. And no wonder —
our local shops charge
2s. How many seem-
ingly well-to-do Austra-
lians are enduring this
bleak winter weather
with insufficient warm
underwear, owing to the
prohibitive cost of the
ordinary woollen singlet?
The same with fruit and
vegetables; they are
luxuries to most of us,
although we know that
thousands of tons are
wasted every year. The
high prices, for some in-
explicable reason, must
be kept up, although no
one seems much better
off, and most of us are
going without these com-
modities which our fami-
lies need, and which we
hear are over-produced.
If a loaf of bread cost £1
wouldn’t most of us go
without or make scones;
whereupon some genius
would discover that there
was a glut in bread —it
was being over-produced,
and the only remedy
would be for all the
bakers to do less work!
It seems to me our mar-
keting methods are mad.
Yours, Tails Up.
The Sugar Business
Dear B., —The south-
erner is unfair to the
sugar industry, simply
because he does not un-
derstand the conditions
of the great scattered
North. Again and again
we up top hear that
sugar would be much
cheaper if we didn’t
waste our by-products.
Why, we are asked, don’t
we turn ' our molasses
into power alcohol? Well,
this matter was exten-
sively investigated last
year by the Common-
wealth Sugar Inquiry
Committee, and the un-
a n i m o u s conclusion
arrived at was that pro-
duction on any scale
worth mentioning was
not economically possible
under present conditions.
There is an up-to-date
plant for the production
of anhydrous alcohol
from molasses at Sarina,
near Mackay—capacity,
1,000,000 gallons of alco-
hol per annum. The out-
put is mixed with motor
spirit and recognised as
a first-class motor fuel;
but the supply is greater
than the market can
absorb, owing chiefly to the expense of trans-
port from Sarina. The great bulk of the
molasses produced by the sugar mills nowa-
days is being utilised in one way or another
—35 p.c. is sold to distilleries, 26 . p.c. is
used as fuel in the mills and 35 p.c. as food
for stock. Not very much lias been used as
fertiliser so far, but the tendency is to-
wards greater use in the canefields. Freights
are said to be abnormal. But why blame
us? The sugar industry isn’t responsible
for the Navigation Act. Nor are we respon-
sible for the southern demand for. highly-
refined sugar. “Mill white” sugar is avail-
able to the public at per lb. less than
refined; yet, though one of the mills
specialises in this brand, 100 tons was all
it could sell last year. Yours, Northerner,
t ~ :
Our Exporters Faults
Dear 8.,—1 have had a long experience
of trade conditions in the F.M.S., and
below I give a few instances of how, and
how not, to treat a buyer. .
I ordered a quantity of S|lb. tins of boiled
lollies. The goods arrived packed in second-
hand tins, the. inner discs missing, the lollies
massed; the tins had to be cut up before
the contents could be extracted. The greater
part of the sweets had to be given away
to native biddies. No claim was made, but
I pointed out the trouble to the manufac-
turers. They replaced the whole of ' the
goods, plus 50 per cent, added to refund the
cost of freight, duty, etc. That firm will
have my business as long as I have any
t° do.
Some burgees were wanted by a local
company, special lettering. They were
ordered for 28-foot launches. In error the
makers made them to suit 28-ton vessels
They admitted the error and made a small
allowance. I have a number of burgees
absolutely of no value on account of the
special lettering. Account closed; the next
order went to Britain.
Two local companies wished to adopt a
type of lamp that would burn kerosene, give
sufficient light for emergency use in the
factories, not be affected by moderate winds,
and portable, as they would be used on the
wharfs. There was a likely lamp advertised
by an Australian house. Two sample lamps
were ordered. Shades were mentioned in the
advt.; the lamps arrived without them.
Spare glasses sent were useless, as they
belonged to another type of lamp. Both' the
oil containers leaked and had to go in tc
the plumber. An English lamp was found,
Why do the names of some firms become
household words on the outer rim of Aus-
tralia and beyond ? Because they make
good their errors. .Those who look only
to to-day’s results will never become house-
hold words, lours, H. D.
Are We Bad Salesmen?
Dear B.,—One product of this country
sells without fierce competition from other
countries, and that is eucalyptus oil, which
can only be produced in any substantial
quantity in Australia. Yet it is not very
valuable to us. In 1928-29 the export figure
was 114,004 gallons, valued at £85,009, of
which 35,955 gallons went to Britain. In
1930-31, the figure dropped to 86,128 gallons,
valued at £47.090, of which 17,810 gallons
went to Britain. “Are we poor salesmen?”
The Bulletin asked. This seems to give
another reply in the affirmative.—Yours,
Wyara.
. , D . - ,
ls the Dole a Right.
Dear B.,—“Hugh G.” (B. 15/6/’32) says
he has a right to the dole. Why? My
father, a carpenter, has been out of work
for 21 months. My father-in-law, a brick-
layer, has worked less than three months in
two years. Each reared a family of four
children. Each has an unemployed daughter
t 0 keep at home, yet neither are on the
dole yet, nor likely to be for a long time.
Of the present dole-takers 75 per cent, have
o nly their wanton extravagance in the good
times to thank for their present plight, If
a man doesn’t have to suffer for thriftless-
ness, how can we expect him to be thrifty?
We lack courage—the courage to make men
suffer for their follies.—Yours, Emell.
The Preferential Vote
Dear b.,—The system of preferential vot-
ing in N g _ Wales isn - t fl aw i ess . For
instance, in an electorate where, say, 15,000
vo tes are recorded •
_ _ .„. "
Smith (U.A.P.) polls .. .. 4000 votes
Brown (A LT.) ” " 6000 ”
, ’ ,
Under the present system, bmith drops out,
and as he and Jones have agreed to ex-
change preferences the latter wins over
Brown by 9000 to 6000. Brown s 6000 pre-
ferences are not utilised. If these were
allocated, and Smith got a large majority ot
them, then with Jones s added
must have the greatest number of votes
recorded in his favor. Yours, L. Liz.
Boiler Insnection
Dear Bulletin, At Grafton (N.S.W.) a
Municipal Council boiler lately collapsed and
did a lot of damage. This boiler was not
subject to any Government control, like
hundreds of others. Parliament should
remedy this. All pressure vessels, especially
steam-generators, in dairies, irrigation plants,
road-rollers and tractors, municipal asphalt-
ing and other plants, should be brought under
a new Act, the administration of which
might easily be carried out by the Mines
Department or the Labor and Industry
Department, without harassing industry or
adding to the already over-staffed civil
service.—Yours, Safety First.
TOO MANY TO KEEP.
“Between the political cockatoos and the middlemen parrots, they're starving us, Mr. Lyons."


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s (com. Saturday) . | air y»
Criterion jes and Talkies
State • •
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMMOWE:RK.^
“Saint Joan”
State* ••’ • ’Movies and Talkies
♦
Behind the Scenes „
“Come with me behind the scenes,
one of the pillars of a Sydney repertory
theatre society, “and I’ll
a few of our unsung heroes.’’ The hunhry
Showman accepted the invitation Ihe di
Dlaces at the back of the stage are always
intriguing, particularly at playhouses where
a ballet is one of the attractions, since
it is not always even f lorn
“Others have to disrobe
behind packing-cases.”
the front row
of the stalls,
to correctly
estimate the
merits of a
stage-wide line
of high-kick-
ing belies.
The pillar
portly- one
—escorted the
S.S. along a
dark and nar-
row alleyway
at the side- of
i the theatre, a
converted auc-
( tion-room, and
pushed him
into a cramped
space between
the backdrop and the rear wail. Here
were two cubicles, little larger than
telephone booths, which serve for dressing-
rooms. Only two players can change gar-
ments in the boxes at the same time;
the others have to disrobe behind, pack-
ing-eases, odds and ends of furniture and
sections of unused scenery. The society’s
wardrobe was displayed on coat-hangers
strung along a length ,of rope. Scattered
haphazard were the “props”—a decrepit
golfbag, a rusty blunderbuss, . cracked and
grimy crockery, a stuffed kookaburra, and
other strange pieces which might have been
looted from a pawnbroker’s shop. Wooden
frames covered with painted canvas were
strewn around; a stepdadder, coils of rope,
pots of paint and an enormous fly-specked
mirror helped to complete the ensemble.
Already about a dozen human beings were
squeezed into the space.
The monarch of this little kingdom was the
producer, a young man with a high forehead,
side-levers and lilywhite hands. Next in
order of im-
portance came
a group of
callow Thes-
pians, chang-
ing garments,
applying make-
up or quiver-
ingly awaiting
cues. The “un-
sung heroes”
comprised the
prompter, the
property man,
a lone scene-
shifter, a
wardrobe mis-
tress, the
youth who
made the
“noises off-
stage” and one
or two others.
“Quiveringly awaiting cues.”
In the commercial theatre, members of the
technical staff lire important and touchy
persons who are treated with deference. As
trade-unionists, they know their rights, and
woe betide the management which expects
a stage carpenter to do a job that rightly
belongs to the scene-painter’s apprentice.
In the amateur theatre all back-stage labor
is carried out by unpaid workers.. And they
are far more tractable than the mummers.
An amateur who has played lead, and is
cast for a minor part in the next produc-
tion, is as likely as not to resign and join
another society. That is why Miss Gladys
Gadfly, of Darling Point, is seen with the
Basement Barnstormers, the Attic Actors
and the Pillbox Players within two or three
months. Indulgent newspapers are largely
to blame for this. Nearly all amateur
actors and actresses depend on press notices
to keep them in the limelight. The stage
craftsmen get no puff pars. Therefore they
have no need to be continually transferring
their allegiance from one body to another.
An alert young woman was introduced.
She sat on a soap-box with the “prompt
copy” in her hands, and could only murmur
“How do you do?” for she was being kept
busy. She is expected to speak clearly and
loudly enough to be heard by the players but
not by the audience; a ticklish task when
the front row of the auditorium is about a
“me sat on a soap-box.”
foot away
from the foot-
lights. Nor is
it conducive
to popularity,
for she was
once invited
by a dis-
gruntled mem-
ber of the
audience to
come out and
take the part
of a tongue-
tied actress
whom she had
been endea-
voring to
assist. Even
such press
notices as she
receives make absent-minded members of the
acting circle wrathful.
“Noises off-stage” was a zealous youth
whose tools of trade resembled the gleanings
of a junkyard. There was a box of broken
glass which had to be energetically deposited
in an empty box when the sound of smashing
crockery was called for. There was a lamp-
chimney through which he had to howl to
imitate the roar of wild animals. Whenever
a champagne bottle was uncorked on the stage
his job was to burst a blown-up paper bag;
for revolver shots he hit a leather cushion
with a thin cane; by rolling shot in a tin
he supplied ,an illusion of falling, rain, and
hoofbeats wer;e mimicked, by an ingenious
affair made . out of. cocoanut-shells. In his
tiny corner were further intricate and
apparently ; home-made contrivances for
manufacturing the sound of , howling gales,
surf pounding on a rocky coast, trains, in
motion, thunder and heavy gunfire., “Noises
off-stage” held the mummers, in utter con-
tempt.' According to him their rantings and
ravings might impress a few simple souls,
but when he got-properly into action every-
one' in the audience sat up and listened.
Ohce he had nearly emptied a theatre during
the progress of a Grand. Guignol play in
which , a ghost ascended stairs, off-stage drag-
ging yards of chain behind him. He regarded
it. as a tribute to his art that he had been
tlie cause of more faintings and fits of
hysterics than all. the stage performers put
together. A resourceful lad I
Nearly as interesting was the bald-headed
little man who kept an eye on the proper-
ties. It is his business' to obtain all that
is needed on the stage, except the scenery,
and to have the objects in readiness for
going into action. If the play demands a
rocking-horse, a grand piano, a canary in
.a cage, a tombstone, a bust of Mr. Lang, a
live turtle, a basket of eggs, or anything
else, lie must scour the city until he finds
it—or a good
imitation. Yet
he knows next
to nothing re-
garding the
text of the
plays for
which he gath-
ers the stage
material] ; It
is told of him
that when the
society was
contemplating
a,production of
O’Neill’.s “The
Hairy Ape”-
which didn’t
c-ome ! off—
he wailed
“•’S truth, I
ho p e that
doesn’t mean
a visit to
Taronga!”
“He hit a leather cushion
with a thin cane.”
The wardrobe mistress has a fairly easy
time, as-the majority of the cast' furnish
their own costumes, hiring them if necessary.
Still, even the most humble society accumu-
lates a wardrobe of .sorts, and this she must
keep in, good repair. She also is expected
to change the fit and style to suit require-
ments. A cursory glance at her stock of
haberdashery revealed a priest’s ’ cassock, an
old A.I.F. uniform, a Judge’s robes and a
loincloth! Nowadays costume plays grow
rarer, the amateurs preferring modern,
realistic pieces wherein they can wear clothes
of their cwn.
The electrician is also underworked, but
he was bitter about it. An enthusiast, he
had drawn up elaborate plans for the in-
stallation of arc-lamps, focus-lamps, flooding-
lanterns, corner-lights, bulb-reflectors and
various other illuminants, and the City
Council’s minions had vetoed them. He was
stat ; oned at a primitive and insignificant
switchboard gazing mournfully at an elabor-
ate “light-plot” which had been rendered
useless by officialdom.
“Well,” said the pillar, after the inspec-
tion was over, “what will you have to
drink?” The S.S. chose port from what
was offered. He has since every reason to
believe that what he consumed was a stage
decoction of water and cochineal. There is
a way of getting home on a dramatic critic.
“The Good Fairy,” who fluttered on to
the Sydney Criterion stage last Saturday
evening, hails from Vienna, and has none
of the wistful, gentle ways of the elfs of
bedtime stories. Her thoughts dwell on
champagne, diamonds and automobiles, and
some of her artless expressions would shock
a suburban sewing circle. She appears in
“Expect to erntnye one
fit and style to suit all
requirements.”
the guise of
Lu, an unem-
ployed usher-
ette in search
of a good time
and a rich
man, and
happens on the
latter in
Konrad, the
middle - aged
and portly
president of a
South Ameri-
can meat-pack-
ing company.
They meet in
the dining-
room of a
f a s h i o nable
hotel, but
Konrad’s
amorous aa-
vances are
repulsed, Lu informing him (untruthfully)
that she is a married woman disinclined for
crude intrigues. The news doesn’t disturb
Konrad, who offers to purchase her favors
by placing riches in her husband’s way.
This imposes on Lu the necessity of invent-
ing a husband. She picks haphazard from a
telephone-book a lawyer named Max Sporum,
who is to become Konrad’s legal represen-
tative at a fabulous salary. Further com-
plications enter at this stage in the acquies-
cent fairy’s attachment to Kellner, the head
waiter at the hotel, and ; the advent of a
third admirer, in Dr. Metz, a tippling Cabi-
net Minister. The second act reveals
Sporum as an elderly, nervous and ineffec-
tual bachelor, besieged by debt-collectors,
and only kept afloat by Karoline, bis very
capable secretary. Lu arrives in the rflle
of his good fairy, but when he learns that
he can only benefit financially by her lies
and immoral intentions, he is horror-
stricken, and upbraids her with her wicked-
ness. He is eventually persuaded to become
her accomplice. There is to be no marriage
ceremony • she is simply to stay in Sporum’s
office and act as if she were his wife. The
meat king then puts in an appearance, and
the affair is partly finalised, but the scan-
dalised lawyer enters only half-heartedly
into the elaborate plans for the reorganisa-
tion of his business, and is tortured by
visions of Lu’s sacrifice. Lu calmly tells
him that she didn’t keep an appointment
with Konrad, who had caught , her with
another man. The indignant Konrad stalks
in and seizes upon Sporum’s indiffer-
ence to his. supposed wife’s infidelity
as an excuse to cancel the contract.
Sporum is left, his dreams of wealth
crushed, amid the piles of unpaid goods
which his secretary is gathering together to
return. His chief regret is that he must
E art with a pencil-sharpener to which he
as taken a childish fancy. The' play might
as well have ended with this masterly revela-
tion of'what can sometimes befall the object
of an irresponsible person’s good intentions,
but to give the comedy the essential happy
ending there is an epilogue. The time is
ten years later, and the scene is a celebra-
tion in honor of the tenth anniversary of
Lu’s marriage. The audience is kept in
doubt as to the identity ,of the husband as
each successive male guest is greeted effu-
sively by Lu. It is Kellner, the head waiter.
With a few minor exceptions, the players
captured the frothy spirit of the play. Even
in the frequent risque passages they spoke
their lines naturally. Margaret Rawlings,
beautifully gowned, was captivating as the
good fairy, though one found her slow
manner of speech a trifle tedious before
the finish. And she was overshadowed
in the scenes with Sporum by Barry K.
Barnes, whose rendering of the fussy, wor-
ried lawyer was the most delightful feature
of the performance. E. Bellenden Clarke,
though' spirited at times as Konrad, lapsed
into periods of stolidity; Gabriel Toyne, who
also produced the play, was a creditable
Kellner, and Kenneth Brampton struck a
hilarious note, as Dr. Metz. Mary Cobb
furnished a well-studied interpretation of
Karoline..
* * *
“The. Big Show,” the latest presentation
by Ernest C. Rolls at Sydney Theatre Royal,,
loses nothing by comparison with its pre-
decessors. “Bright Side Up” and “Venus,,
Ltd.,” while as a spectacle it outvies them.
One or two of the ballets, notably Faisan
Dord, are brilliant in coloring and finely
staged: and presented. Of the innumerable
sketches a few were like the curate’s egg, but
clever acting and bright music distinguished
many. The most popular with the ground-
lings was “The Political 1 Mikado,” in which
the actors in the recent election drama were
presented as seen through the not always
rose-colored spectacles of Nick Morton, Jennie
Benson, (disguised as “Good ole Piddo”),
Charles Stevens and others. The dancing of
Mae Baird, Archie Thompson and Billy Ker-
shaw is another feature of an attractive
show,
« * at
Scott Alexander cast most of his youthful
Sydney Repertory “featured players” in
“Camille”; Dorothy de Sallis was the out-
standing one. The others remembered
to act only when they had something to say ;
she acted all the rime she was on the stage.
Her Camille was a tall, svelte figure,
sheathed in floor-length gowns and crowned
with hair of jet; and her voice, rich in inflec-
tions. gave naturalness to the stilted lines. She
was at her best in her farewell with Armand
(William Gates) at the end of the third act.
Gates as the ardent French youth was typi-
cally British; he registered intense passion
by gazing at Camille with a pained expres-
sion. Keith Cribb. in whom Alexander has
a clever “character” man, was comfortable as
De Varville, and so was Daphne Winslowe as
a cattish, if rather too-youthful-looking, Mme.
Prudence. The others were bright, Greta
Hunter (Nanine) especially.
* * #
Guiseppe Federici’s locally-enlisted corps
followed up its success in “Traviata” with
“Rigoletto,” at Melbourne Princess on Satur-
day night, not quite so tnumpnantly. Com-
panies more hardened by experience than the
present crew have failed to make the drama-
tic side of this early work of Verdi anything
more than an insensate bellowdrama. Never-
theless, the music, than which Verdi never
wrote anything much better, was given a fair
hearing. Gladys Verona made a slight,
pathetic and attractive figure of Gilda and
her voice was equal to the occasion. The
Duke’s luscious canzone received a clear
passage to the eardrums of the audience via
Vincent McMurray’s melodious baritone and
the house demanded more of it. It also
threw a spanner in the works of the crazy
libretto by asking for a second serving of
the famous quartet, in which the Duke
(McMurray) and Maddelena (Agnes
Sanders) harmonise their passions with the
emotions of Gilda and Rigoletto (Count Fili-
pinni) over the wall of a wayside inn in the
middle of a thunderstorm. Ralph Illidge’s
Sparafucile lacked criminal intent, but the
count’s hunchback jester was by turns malig-
nant and touchingly paternal. The staging
was an immense improvement on the pre-
vious production, the sinister terrors of the
tempest being painted with a lavish brush
bv the scenic artists and the electricians.
The orchestra rode the storm under the skil-
ful navigation of Madame Ezio Giannaccini.
* ■ #
The first public appearance of Fritz Hart
after his trip as guest-conductor to the muni-
cipal orchestra at Honolulu drew a large
but not overflowing audience to the Town
Hall, Melbourne, on Saturday. Beethoven’s
“Coriolanus” overture and the “Eighth Sym-
phony” were the main business of the even-
ing. The Bulletin found a place in one of
the notorious blind spots of the conceit hall
where the mechanical noises of the instru-
ments appear to be magnified while the
music passes overhead, and this probably
accounts for the fact that the allegretto
scherzando and menuetto of the latter work
were lacking in richness; but none of the
rough humor of the last movement failed to
reach its destination. The pure and flowing
lines of Haydn’s “London” symphony were
in sharp contrast with the dim expressionism
of Stanford’s “Irish Rhapsody, No. 1 in
D,” one of those works which set out for
nowhere and get there after a great deal
of unnecessary pedestrianism. The local
Esther Rofe’s “Tone Poem for Orchestra”
proved a thoughtful composition, with some
lively passages for the strings sprinkled
about it.
* * *
John Brownlee’s golden baritone will be
reinforced by Rita Miller’s soprano at a first
concert in Melbourne Town Hall this even-
ing (June 29). Miss Miller is the brilliant
young Australian who has been singing for
the Toulon municipal opera.
Poverty Point
“L. de Rideau”: Argument has arisen as
to whether the. epilogue to “Saint Joan ’ is
a masterpiece of stagecraft or ; a. tedious
excrescence on the. drama- It is neither. It
is merely a Shavian preface dressed in theat-
rical costume. If Shaw likes to write a
preface to a printed play or tack an adden-
dum to a spoken one, that is his business.
If the public doesn't, like either it needn’t
read the, preface and- it can Walk out on
the epilogue. The only objection to the
stage preface is ■ that 'an audience doesn t
know it. is coming, and so it is apt to walk
out in the middle—as some have done at the
Melbourne presentation. On the whole. _how-
ever, the attention accorded to G.B.S.’s in-
tellectual drama- has, reflected credit on the
Australian theatregoer’s-intelligence.
“Fort” : The critic who insists that Dame
Sybil Thorndike shows, “no understanding’
of “Saint Joan” (B. 15/6/’.32) must know
more about what Shaw wants than the
playwright himself. Sybil Thorndike
played the Saint in the first performance
on March 26, 1924. T\vo months later Shaw,
replying to ; “critics on both sides _ of the
Atlantic,” who had. offered suggestions' for
improvement, declared, in effect, that he liked
his > play as it was—and. as we are now
seeing it. Shaw’s description of John — :
“eyes very wide apart and bulging, as.they
often do in very imaginative people, a long
well-shaped nose with wide nostrils, a
short upper lip, resolute hut. full-lipped
mouth, and handsome fighting chin”—-is a
description of Sybil Thorndike herself. The
critic found the actress’s voice monotonous.
To-mie it seemed full of life and fire; it was
audible even to the, last syllable, whether
she whispered, shouted or imitated the
great bell of Rheims Cathedral. And if
Joan rushing on to the stage in - armor
reminded the writer of a “stage Cinderella? ’
he must have seen some unusual Cinderella*.
“Cauboy”: After half a lifetime _ of ex-
perience I find; the theatregoing animal as
mysterious as ever. Take his _ attitude
towards stage drama. If a straight play
contains a. murder, suicide or other tragedy
he calls it sordid and avoids it like the rate;
collector. Yet .lie : and his missus will attend
opera; in droves to see Mimi die of consump-
tion and starvation ; Scarpia succumb to
Tosca’s carving-knife; Thais perish miser-
ably of religious mania; and Tristan and
Isolde' take poison in a frenzy of amatory
intoxication. I know one mart who refuses
to go to a straight play unless it has a
happy ending; yet he will sit through
“Samson and Delilah,” although it concludes
with a mound of corpses; and the insensate
horror of the last act of “If Amove de Tre
Re” sends him home spiritually rejuvenated.
If the average opera were spoken instead
of sung it would reveal itself as the shod-
diest kind of bellowdrama, but everything
is forgiven a fat tenor if he commits suicide
at the top of his voice while his mistress is
expiring from malnutrition and in the.
middle register.
“Hamfat”: The curtain was rung down
suddenly for Nat Phillips, who died -as he
sat in his car in Ca stl or eagh -street,
Sydney. For a couple of decades Nat
was better known as “Stiffy,” of '“St-iffy”
and “Mo” —the combination which first
familiarised Australia with vaudeville
farce-revue. The pair did good business
for the Fullers and Stiffy was the orga-
nising brains of the combination. His
father, Joe Tolano, was the idol of a
former generation. Nat toddled on in opera
when he was only five years old, and-kept
going for 45 years.
“Cauboy”: I have often wondered how
just-departed “Stiffy” put up with the daily
showerbaths he got from comrade “Mo” dur-
ing their ,14 years of partnership. “Mo’s” most
trenchant piece of wit used to take the form
of what looked, from my side of the foot-
lights, like a genuine expectoration full in
the face of his fellow-conspirator. A similar
form of martyrdom had to be endured by the
actors and actresses who played opposite a
Shakspearean actor well remembered in Aus-
tralia. In this case, however, it was in-
voluntary. The actor had some vocal defect
which, combined with emotion, produced a
state of foaminess as distressing to watch
from the front stalls as it must have been
painful to face by a Desdemona or a Juliet.
“Say Bo”: The examples I have seen do
not encourage me to hope that the stage,
having had several pages of its book pinched
by the talkies, will make efforts to recover
the documents (B. 22/6/’32). There have
been several attempts seen on the Australian
boards lately, obviously inspired by the
movies. All that one gets out of them is
the impression of a playwright too lazy, to
compress his ideas into the three conven-
tional acts and endeavoring to make him-
self interesting by changes of scenery. _ In
one such a married couple are depicted
approaching a wealthy relative for a loan.
The husband doesn’t want to do it, so there
is a scene on a bench outside the relative’s
apartment in which the wife bolsters up
her man’s failing courage. Then there is
a long wait while the bench is dragged off
and some more furniture is dragged on, and
the curtain rises on the office. A
competent dramatist would have condensed
the two scenes into one, making the dialogue
between man and wife occur while the butler
is going to call the relative. Most allegedly
new devices on the stage are like that —
mere substitutes for intelligent writing. And
they are not even novel.
“Lights”: Among the hundred or more em-
ployed in the production of the Efftee musi-
cal talkie, “His Royal Highness,” was Billy
Coleman, the scene-painter. An ex-Digger,
Coleman had the congenial job of providing
scenes for “Diggers,” which is still drawing
well. He designed the trench scene, shell-swept
houses and even Flanders mud. Billy was a
camouflage artist with the A.I.F. After his
return, he painted the scenery for “Mademoi-
selle Mimi,” which had a run of six weeks at
Melbourne Playhouse in 1920, being staged
entirely by ex-Diggcrs. For a scene in “His
Royal, Highness” he. built part of, an ocean
liner on such a scale that the studio had to
be enlarged.


■
I
' Ixl'l
8883
Hi
888
m
m
mSmMh,.
-
111
5 xl^x
m
m-
■ ■■■ I
•J
P"l
K * X XX;
ggllilllillil
mtmi
m
-
m
mm
V.' : : ■.-
•x.: ■:•■■:•
X ;■>.;
m
X
'lx'-
•xx '•’
m
m
ilil.
111
.■x ‘ll
1 •' 1
V9&3&
ini
xx|l
:x:,xg
.I:..,;::.
'I;X XX;' '
SS!
§1
XX
sm
*
iK
m
m
.
H
m
MA
m
H
Hi
mmm
<sm
Xxs?X:
1x1:
i i
'-.■■X
' : ; .
.
m
X-
m
m
®B®
; 5 'X'.':
X
fltaMi
XXX
'XX
X ffii
KrasS
■1:;
M
- : : ;:;; x
11.1
m
1
xxx
H §§
■
XXsXS'Xx
S ■:
m
% m.
wmmm
m
m
■
XXX
V
m.
m
3*
x-X.
m
m
I
P
8 .• ••' ; ;:- , l'
lx- X
.
•■'.xx'.-x.
m
iii
HH
l ; l ;
ii
fSSSKS
XIW
X:
■
:-xXl'
■X- ■:
m
H
i xlx -il ; ; ill |
WMMswm
■S
X
err
Ml
-111
.lli/li-
m
: m
H i
es . ■■
■
■
sms
a
MS
X
P
P
a*
M
raniwi
orl
■m mu
uv
O STiUtc -» *orr!(X Sr
fIsBERAL DfSTiUERtfSPUIx
fct'L&OkJft f<£ A visriil: <-
P!sto»TOtir#i t j*wr S mao
■ <<**mmio***"
■
ne morning over
five years ago
m
JA.
zA
V
iM
first thoughts there may seem to be but a
slender connection between Australia’s barley
crop of five or six years ago and the Old Court
Whisky you buy to-day.
But the connection is not slender: nor is it
unimportant.
Federal Distilleries have for many years been
prominent buyers of Australia’s prime barley.
Thus conies the first step in this great industry’s
material support of the Nation’s primary produc-
tion. And ever this industry is buying in advance.
The Australian barley crop of five or six years
ago is the basis of the Old Court Whisky you order
to-day,just as this year’s barley will reach you in the
form of Old Court Whisky five or six years hence.
For, to continue as the Nation’s Favourite, Old
Court Whisky must come to you as a mellow spirit,
rich with the smoothness, flavour and beneficial
properties of full maturity.
w
tfoufT
tOftisfcu
THE WORLD'S PUR.EST^^
AND THE NATION'S FAVOURITE.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales,: also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Send Your Tyres to “Southern Cross for Retreading
We pend C.O.D. to any part of N.S.W.
FLAT RATE RETREADING.
All car sizes
17/6
All car sizes
(With supertough Rubber Retreads with
popular diamond pattern for long life and wear.)
22/6
All truck sizes
30/-
Also full stocks of new tyres and tubes, also J. 0.8. tyres.
Send them along to-day. Write or ’phone.
’PHONE 81110. ’PHONE 81110.
SOUTHERN CROSS TYRES, LTD.,
75 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridg, es
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. ~ .. .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. •• .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 “ £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AOBORIGINALITIELS
“Wandi” : The kajalga-tree (Erythro-
phlaum lahoucheri) of North Queensland is
reckoned the most poisonous of all the
baneful tribe in Australia, and probably in
the world. It is a rather handsome tree,
with very hard and nicely-grained wood; but
its leaves, flowers, beans, sap, bark and wood
are fatal to stock. Some years ago 4000
sheep out of a travelling mob of 10,000 died
quickly after eating the leaves of a patch
NO CAUSE TO GRUMBLE.
DOCTOR: “I don’t like the look of your wife, Mr. Blank.”
BLANK: “Yes, but, Doctor, she’s a good woman, and looks after the house and the
children.”
of young plants. The blacks declare that
even the smoke from the burning wood is
dangerous; but in the days of tribal wars
they used it for making spearheads. It took
a fine sharp point, and when it penetrated
aft enernv blood-poisoning resulted.
* * *
“Velveteens”: The wire noose suggested
by “Lucerne Flea” as a bettor means of
catching rabbits for road trav
ellei's than the cumbersome
traps (B. 15/6/’32) is merely
the “wire” of the English
poacher—“L.F.” can hear
about it all in the old song,
“It’s my delight of a shiny
night in the season of the
year.” Two sticks (not one)
are needed to set the wire. The
first, to hold the rabbit when
caught, should be fairly stout,
and the wire should be tied to
it with cord ; the other, a twig
slit at the top, is to hold the
noose in position. To get the
proper height, set your clenched
hand on the ground with the
thumb pointing upwards. The
bottom of the noose should just
touch the top of the thumb.
“Baldy”: Queensland saw
the Australian record for
cattle sales bi'oken at Eids-
vold, in the south-east, when
7000 head, all from the Bur-
nett country, were put through
in one go. Eidsvold, once a
mining centi’e of note, was in
the doldrums for years until
Martin Snelling, a Brisbane
stock salesman, conceived the
idea of building big yards and
selling wholesale. The sales
have brought back life to the
half-dead town, and buyers
now come from all over
Queensland and N.S.W. in
hundreds, some by aeroplane.
The 7000, mostly high-class
Herefords, went under the
hammer between 11 a.m. and
4 p.m. the same day, and it is
hoped befoi'e long to put a
mob of 10,000 through.
“McNoon”: I am obliged to “Single-Shot”
(B. 8/<V’32) for describing how a wedge-
tailed eagle at Ulna helped its wounded
mate to safety. He has satisfactorily ex-
plained something that puzzled me for yeai's.
About the time he mentions, I was camped
in the bush at Ulna. Returning one evening,
I found my first-aid cabinet had disappeared
from my tent. Weeks later I was out shoot-
ing, and, seeing two wedge-tails on a tree,
I vainly tried to get close enough for a
shot. As they flew away I noticed that one
did not fly as strongly as the other, and that
there was something white on its body. Pros-
pecting about, I found a large nest and another
object on the tree. It was my first-aid cabinet
resting firmly in a fork of a limb near the
nest. Beneath the tree lay my iodine bottle
—empty—also a number of blood-stained
bandages and antiseptic dressings. The
white that showed on the' weaker bird’s body
must have been a bandage.
HOW McSTINGY GOT RID OF HIS SCRUB.
“My word, you working hard-pfeller, Flourbag!”
“No fear! This bi-i-g joke. Old McStingy ’im bet me fi’ bob 1 couldn’t chop this
plurry little bit o’ scrub in free days. My word, old McStingy ’im be wi-i-ld-
I do it in two day and get that-feller fi’ bob.”
• “Kooragai”: A cunning fisher is Widli,
the pelican. He can’t dive, so he watches
the cormorant when his own fishing suc-
cesses are not commensurate with his colos-
sal appetite. As soon as the cormorant
pops up with a fish the waiting pirate darts
forward, and an exciting chase commences.
The cormorant tries to escape by diving, but
that is not so easy with a sizeable fish in
his beak; the pursuer can follow his course,
and is ready to grab the prize when it is
thrust up again. And Widli has other
ti'icks. He sneaks up behind reeds and rushes
and waits for a chance to spring on the fisher.
He is a patient bird, and when catching for
himself will float motionless for an hour if
necessary, his neck and huge bill drawn
back as far as possible, so that only the
motionless body can be seen by the prey.
When a fish swims within range a swift
lunge of the beak engulfs it. A favox-ite
spot of the pelican is a narrow passage be-
tween reeds where he can grab the unsus-
pecting mullet almost without shifting from
his cover. He explores the swamps for such
places, and often when he seems to be asleep
oit the water with his head tucked down on
his shoulders he is very keenly watching for
his dinner.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: I have the best of reasons
for believing that those drawings of Oswald
Pryor are faithful records of the Cornish
miners he knows so well. Some yeai's ago
there traded between Singapore and Cocos a
schooner commanded by an old Cousin Jack
named Matey Trevallick. He was before nxy
period of exile on Cocos, and although his
name was a household word amongst the
staff I had never seen the old chap. My
Malay boat crew were the medium on which
I practised my rather imperfect Malay and
I hit upon the idea of making the practice
interesting by translating from Tiie Bulle-
tin. The Malays were frankly incredulous
of most of the Aboriginalities, maybe due to
my translation, but all the jokes were fully
appreciated, and none so much as Pryor’s
drawings. According to Ahmat it was
Matey Trevallick looking out at him from
the sketch, and competition was always keen
for discarded issues. I suppose that even
now dozens of Cocos huts have one of Pryor’s
sketches pasted on the wall and that visitors
are proudly invited to inspect “the photo-
graph of Tuan Matey.”
* * * *
“Mulgrave”: Touching “Macti’s” account
(B. 8/6/’32) of that small reef-fish of Torres
Strait, I caught a pair; during a visit to
Green Island, off Cairns, and gave them to
a Swedish scientist; they are, I understand,
now in the museum at Upsala. The scien-
tific name is Amphiprion, and the “curious
spongy growth” referred to by “Macti” is
one of the sea anemone family; the fish
lives with the anemone. It was observed
by me in shallow water on the dead
reef at low tide. In my efforts to catch
specimens I noticed they would not leave
the anemone, but swam at times into the
tentacles to avoid capture. This rendered
them an easy catch, as I was enabled
to herd two into a wide-mouthed bottle.
When the tide recedes the anemone retires
to its hole or crevice in the coral and the
fish descends with it, enveloped in its folds.
The variety taken by me was marked in
bands colored orange, red and white alter-
nately. The colors faded when the speci-
mens were placed in a solution of formalin
diluted with water. Better results were
obtained by substituting glycerine as a pre-
servative.
* * * *
“Yaidei” : If the Motuan language is lack-
ing in expletives (B. 15/6/’32) that of some
of the other Papuan tribes certainly is not.
Among the Binandele of the northern divi-
sion some of these are up to best Hindu
form, including scathing and unprintable
references to the objective’s personal appear-
ance and the general morality and pedigree
of his relatives. At the time I speak of the
Goiaribarian was little heard of in the Far
North, but as far as the local natives and
especially those in the police were con-
cerned, it was sufficient to refer to them
as “Kiwais.” The Kiwais, who formed the
greater part of the Armed Native Constabu-
lary in the early days, also come from far-
western Papua, and, though a long way
above the swamp-dwelling Goaribari, have
certain habits and customs of their own
which did not recommend them to the North-
erners, though as soldiers and especially as
non-commissioned officers they were excel-
lent metal.
* * * *
“Macropus”: Vic. Chief Secretary Mac-
farlan has been asked to sanction the thin-
ning out of a mob of 3000 kangaroos which
are ravaging the Quamby district, and says
lie won’t. Before the station known as
Quamby was cut up a mob of 300 was
jealously preserved. Under Government pro-
tection this has increased tenfold. One in-
dignant complainant, who says he carries
1000 kangaroos on 2300 acres, besides
other livestock, alleges that, in addition
to each eating as much grass daily as a
sheep, the hoppers do much damage among
young lambs, which, attracted by the speedy
strangers, attempt to follow them and thus
lose their mothers. A remedy suggests itself.
Why not train the kangaroos to pick up
the lost lambs and return them, either in
arms or in pouch 1 , to the heartbroken
mothers? If there were a, reward of a lump
of sugar or some other titbit the whole
tribe would soon eatqh on to the advantages
of my scheme.
SNOW ON THE MOUNTAINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thei’e’s snow upon the mountains,
You feel it in the air;
On sheltered beach it’s fairly cold,
And on the wind-swept weald and wold
You don’t require to be told
It’s real winter there.
Pile on fresh logs, as Horace wi’ote,
When tall Soracte’s gleaming coat
Was definitely donned.
There’s snow upon the mountain heights,
And biting days and bitter nights
For certain Out Beyond.
Thei’e’s snow atop the mountains;
It’s middling chill beneath,
And western winds that shrewdly strike
Convey a hint of what it’s like
By cliff and goi-ge and craggy dyke
On Leura and Blackheath.
The rows of stately English trees
Shiver, as in an English breeze,
Gaunt, spectral, leafless, bare,
Aligned upon Mount Wilson’s brow.
It’s wintry hei-e, but you’ll allow
It’s real winter there.
There’s snow upon the mountains,
And winds that pierce and freeze
Across Monaro’s plains of gray;
And Kosciusko day by day
Sees tourists out in brave array,
Equipped with skates and skis.
In short, my son, compared with us
They’re on the frosty Caucasus,
So from complaint foi'bear.
There’s snow upon the mountain-side
And in the Outback, wild and wide;
It’s real winter there.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


Complete
Banking Facilities
are available at the offices
of the National Bank of
Australasia, Ltd. Its com-
prehensive service covers
the financial requirements
of business men, tourists
and settlers. The Bank has
438 offices and branches
throughout Australia, two
branches in London, and
agents in all important
world cities.
&/>e National Bank
of Australasia, Limited.
Principal Sydney Office: 3.42-346 George Street.
Capital and Reserves . . £8,300,000
Total Assets . . , . 44,000,000
Plum Razor Guard
4|
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and sin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 2/9 each, post free.
&/>e PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle ...... 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle ...% 21/- each,
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case-
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST PKEE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
■ —Sin. and Jin.
Each razor set, ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
/r..
MEMORISE WITH!
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Cauifleia,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
BOOMERANGS!
Solid Blackwood Boomerangs. Almost
unbreakable.
GUARANTEED TO RETURN!
Full instructions attached. Successful throwing
assured. See them travel, circle and come right
back. With little practice, a display will amaze
your friends 23in. long, 3/0; 27in., 4/6. Long
distance. 27in., 7/0. Post free, Australia and N.Z.
BENTLEY MANUFACTURING CO.,
E. Brighton, 5.6., Victoria.
If any illustration in "The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
“H. Hardupp”: The goldfish craze is a
queer feature of the times. Every boat from
the China Seas or thereabouts brings to
THE BEWILDERING BUSH.
NEWCHUM VISITOR: “Could you tell me how far it is from here to
the beach?”
OLD-HAND FENCER: “Well, from that corner past the ’ut there it’s
about thirty strainers to the next corner. Then yer gotter go
ten or twelve panels inter the scrub and yer’ll come to a bit
of a rise. If yer get up to the top o’ that y’ll see the sand-
hills bearin’ away to the left, and if y’ll keep goin’ towards
’em y’ll hit the beach at the back of ’em.”
Sydney swarms of the decorative, though
otherwise uninteresting, pets, together with
lamentations about those that died on the
way. And street-sellers of the fish are mostly
to be found in thoroughfares used by people
on the dole, or near it, though goldfish
fanciers are to be encountered in all sorts
of places. Going home in a tram I sat
beside a drunk who carried in one hand
a caged canary and in the other a bowl
of goldfish. He gurgled with delight as lie
told the other passengers of the joy his
gifts were going to bring to “Charlie”—•
“it’s Charlie’s birth—hie—day,” he ex-
plained. The tram lurched a lot, and before
the end of the journey a very drowned
canary was floating in the bowl whilst three
goldfish, equally dead, were spread on the
floor of the cage. But Charlie’s pa—one
judged he was that—was too far gone in
beer to notice the full import of the tragedy.
* * * *
“G.G.6” : That Queensland dingo-poisoning
scheme (B. 1/0/’.‘<2) is taking on consider-
able proportions. A special drive is to be
made this winter wdth baits prepared to a
formula discovered by D. E. Donkin, of
Meteor Downs, near Springsure (C.Q.).
Baits of “annealed” blood containing strych-
nine are manufactured at the Government
poison store in Brisbane, where the plant is
capable of turning out 20,000 baits a day;
while still hot, they are wrapped in grease-
proof paper and spread to dry. This done,
they are packed 250 to a case. The price is
os. a case—slightly less than actual cost,
and the Government pays railage to the
address. The material of the bait is said to
be specially attractive to the dogs, and it
will keep in good condition for some months
after distribution. Baits are merely thrown
into a tuft of grass or alongside a stock-pad
where the dingo is sure to find them. Over
half a million had been distributed up to
the middle of June, and before the end of
the winter, which is the dingo’s breeding sea-
son, a million will have gone out.
❖ ❖ # $
“Uramao”: A rare visitor to Maoriland is
the Australian curlew. One was recently
captured at Lake Ellesmere and presented
to the Canterbury Museum, making the
fourth; two were caught at Kaiapoi in 1876,
and another at the Waimakariri Biver about
five years ago. Like the godwits .of Maori-
land, the Australian curlew goes to Siberia
to breed and returns to the south for the
summer.
* * * *
“La-si”: Though I consider it rather far-
fetched, that yarn about the crow taken in
adultery (B.
15/6/’32) reminds
me of a similar
incident related
to me years ago
by a highly-re-
spected resident
of Samarai. He
was bound for
that island from
Cooktown in a
, keteh owned by a
poultry fancier
who had brought
on board a setting
of fancy duck-
eggs in process of
hatching, together
with the duck and
her drake. The
duck was sitting
on the eggs up
for’ard when she
was killed by a
flying rope-end.
Some time later
when the owner
came aft for the
eggs he found
that a—presum-
ably—female fly-
ing-fish had come
over the bows and
was sitting on
them. It was un-
usual, even for the
Western Pacific,
but all agreed to
make the best of
the situation—
except the drake,
lie seemed dumb-
founded. In a
day or so the
eggs were hatched,
and the spectacle
of the complacent
fish sitting on the
downy ducklings
delighted everyone
—the d ,- ake again
excepted. Pie took
one look, hopped
on to the gun-
wale and dived
over. Though they
put about to res-
cue him he never
came up again.
My informant in-
sisted it was suicide. I leave it to you.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: There is a lot to be said for
the institution of a wild zoo in the h’lls
near Melbourne (B. 15/6/’32), but it will
have to be on the limited lines of that now
“MAESTER CHAERMAN.”
“Mary Ann Pellew will now sing jor ’ee ‘What Be the Wild Waves Speakin ’ Of?"
nearing completion at Whipsnade, some 40
miles from London. This is an open pai’k
of about 1000 acres, and though, naturally,
some of the animals have to be separated,
everything from the elephant to the field-
mouse may be seen there uncaged. The
great South African game reserves are not
fenced, and cai*nivores and other species
roam together on the same terms as in the
wilderness. When the lions get a bit too
thick—they are free breeders in the wild
state—rangers thin them off. With adequate
fencing such little-known Australians as the
Tasmanian devil and wolf could help to make
a Victorian holiday.
* * * *
“Shugger”: The art of rain-making (B.
l/6/’32) has its humorous side. On Lake
Nash station (N.T.) we had a so-called
rainmaker who had a following of a few
husky young men. On one occasion,
following a droughty period, we noticed
a bank of dark clouds in the north-
west at midday. King Yarrie went into all
sorts of weird contortions and moanings,
and with liis I followers danced and yelled to
bring up. “beeg fella rain.” The clouds
gathered into a storm, and boomerangs were
thrown towards them to break them; but
although it appeared certain that the dis-
trict was about to be swamped, the storm
passed over to the south, where it rained
heavily. . “ ’Nother fella been stealem rain
I been sing up!” Yarrie replied gutturally
to questions. Next day he and his followers
journeyed south until they discovered the
successful rainmaker beside a flooded creek.
They almost belted the life out of him. It
seemed a queer custom, but inquiry revealed
that Yarrie had also been punished on pre-
vious occasions for being too successful in
his art.
*s*
“Eureka”: This octopus argument reminds
me that while I was in the Coast Hospital
at Little Bay (N.S.W.), a fellow-patient,
a Greek, caught an octopus on the rocks.
He cut the tentacles off, roasted them over
an open fire, smothered them in butter and
ate them with apparent relish. But during
the cooking octo. smelt like burning leather.
* * * *
“Ex-Cavalryman”: My last reply to “Kell
B.” (B. l/6/’32). (1) It is always unwise
to establish general conclusions on isolated
instances. The horsemanship of British
cavalrymen cannot be judged from the riding
ability displayed by (alleged) ex-cavalrymen
“holidaying” on stations; nor yet from my
“admissions,” because I made none. (2) I
did not state I saw anything “clever” in
teaching a horse to cantor backwards. It is
no more clever, nor cruel, than teaching a
horse to “rein back,” which is done in all
army riding dep6ts. (3) “Kell B.” may
fancy it is “unfortunate” to ride with the
feet “home” in the stirrups; nevertheless all
hunting nolo and racing men do it. (4)
Let “Kell B.” put up the money and the
L illis disciples will be forthcoming.
* * * *
“Cuddie Elliot”: That shooting match
“Query” saw in Victoria (B. 15/6/’32) was
the ancient sport of “shooting at the popin-
jay,” once universally practised in Europe.
Readers of Scott will recall that the open-
ing chapter of one of his novels—l am
ashamed to say I cannot recall it, though
I fancy it was “Old Mortality”—gives a
spirited account of such a shoot, which was
then a sport only for the nobility and
gentry, in Scotland. Those of lesser import-
ance had the privilege of standing round
and barracking for their fancy. Brisbane
Danes, by the way, hold a similar celebra-
tion annually; an account of one appeared
in the Abo. columns some time ago.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“Pofar”: “Franciscan” (B. 8/6/'32) has
slipped. At least two breeds of poultry,
Dorlpngs and Faverolles, have the fifth toe.
Lack of it is a fault that would disqualify
a bird at a show.
* * * *
“Herpes”; One of the Sydney papers re-
cently published a picture of “the egg-eating
snake from South Africa,” before and after
a meal. In my experience, most snakes will
eat eggs, given the chance. I had the fact
brought home to me in Papua when I was
under the impression that Eve’s cobber would
only touch living tucker. The egg supply of
my hen-house fell off, and as the local store-
keeper’s carriers were wont to pass close by
when going to and from the boat landing-
stage, they were suspected. Their innocence
was established with the discovery in a hatch-
ing box of a somnolent snake containing
three recently-swallowed eggs. Others re-
mained in the nest, as, curiously enough, did
an evidently puzzled hen. The snake, as far
as I could judge, was the ordinary poisonous
brown variety so common in Australia.
* * * *
“Jesses”: Mating for life among birds is
far commoner than supposed (B. 22/6/’32).
The practice is by no means universal among
the pigeons, but is the invariable rule with
eagles and hawks. Geese have a strong ten-
dency to monogamy also, as swans are said
to have, especially in a wild state. A notable
monogamist, scarcely to be described as a
bird, though he is a very far-off relation, is
our own Australian goanna, whose heart
is said to remain always true to the same
Poll. As the go. has not many engaging
characteristics, he deserves credit for this one
—if it is an engaging characteristic.
A SPORTING CHANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m sittin’ in me lonely ’ut an’ broodin’ on
me cares,
An’ mixin’ latest market news up with me
own affairs.
From wheat an’ wool to fickle girls me mind
perversely strays,
When suddenly I comes to life. This advert,
’its me gaze:
“A widder, young, affectionate, of cultivated
mind,
Would like to meet a farmer of the ’and-
some, manly kind.”
So when I got the gist of it I ’ad to slap
me knee.
A farmer, ’andsome! ’Oly smoke, it fits me
to a T!
“Photos, exchanged.” Well, I admit there’s
lots of sense in that.
But wot’s she mean by saying that she wants
a view of Mat.?
Mat who ? I ponders for a while; then in
a brace o’ shakes
I twigs she wants a flutter in the Double
’Arness Stakes.
An’ seein’ ’ow my girl ’as gone an’ left me
’igh an’ dry,
I’m game to take a sportin’ chance an’ give
the thing a fly.
There’s still good fishin’ in the sea, Eliza
Jane’ll find,
When I trots out mo widder with the culti-
vated mind.
I reckon plenty blokes who’d been rebuffed
as much as me,
Weak-minded coots, would live their lives in
single misery.
But I don’t moan and whip the cat like
those dejected swains,
I simply casts me optics round in search of
other janes.
There’s only one thing in the ad. that
troubles me at all:
I ’aven’t ’ad a photo, took since I was very
small.
Meanwhile, before she gets a snap, to show
me in me best,
I’ll send a picture of me cow that won the
milkin’ test.
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
(Opp. Railway Station'),
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms :: 200 Baths
V.
tV'ii
mbit'll
iilii Siiliiiiil
m! f»
;»»?! fl M
Id
.Melbourne's Most Modern Hotel.
Tariff per day:
Room and meals from 22/6
Room and Breakfast from I^/6
AGENCIES
A valuable feature of the Commonwealth Savings Bank service
is the establishment of agencies in practically all Post Offices
in Australia, as well as in many business houses. Altogether
there are nearly 5000 of these agencies in the Commonwealth,
from which it will be readily seen that the Bank’s service is
extended wherever there is population.
In every city, town and district, therefore, Savings Bank
facilities are available to men, women and children, for the
Savings Account may be used by all.
Wherever you may live, wherever you may travel within the
Commonwealth, you can utilise the Savings Account for your
profit and convenience.
iflommoTOcaltb Savmasßank of Hustralia
{<Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the
Queensland are justly proud. It is brig
and reliable. It presents the latest local.
Interstate and world-wide news to Its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State., It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81622.
SMOKE-OH!
“I have always been a Labor man, and I will die
one.”— J. T. Lang.
The question is; Does he mean it, or is
it only a promise?
* *
“Evidence showed that accused, who was a sailor,
was at a dance and gave wine to girls.”
—Melb. “Herald,”
One of those sailors who like a port in
('very sweetheart.
* *
“Mrs. Marion Egges, of Los Angeles, is suing a
friend for alienation of her husband’s affections.”
— “'Film, Weekly.”
The question “How d’you want ’em cooked?”
Heed not to her be broached,
For she has lost, the Egges she hooked—
A friend her Egges has poached,
TALE OF HORROR.
Wanton Sacrifice of Beauty.
The Man Who Would Not Slim.
Why should all Australia’s self-consciously beauti-
ful or blurb writing be confined to murder stories?
The following collection of purple or guff patches
.—exclusive to the ‘Dribble’—shows how slush
in literature may be applied in other directions.
• “H”m, six pounds over weight. A very fine
child,” said the clinic matron, and changed
THE UNDERDOG : “Of course I was an idiot
when I married her.”
THE COMFORTER : “Oh, well, you gotter make
the best of it—I suppose she thought
at the time you’d improve.”
the subject. Friends of his Mother (ah,
Heaven, that gracious word!) peered at him.
nnd remarked politely; “I’ve no doubt it’s
quite healthy to look like that.” Came ado-
lescence—and ever-increasing adiposity. At
18 he tipped the scale at 17.8; at 20 he
broke a railway station weighing-machine;
at 30 —
Did he dream, then, one wonders of Eng-
land's nonpareil, Daniel Lambert?
Had he visions, even in the first rosy
dawn of his career, of Barnum's world-
famed mountain of fiesli?
Ah, which of us shall guess at the long,
long, thoughts of youth?
“Tubby!” and again “Tubby!” Like
some wild Muezzin-call to devotees it rises
and falls o’er the hills and dales whereon,
and wherein, dwell and bolt for trains <»’
“Goodness! Old Colonel Stubbins left forty thousand pounds. And he wouldn’t let
his girls spend a penny without his authority.
“No, my dear — that’s what they call will-power"
mornings the myriad tribes Nat., C-Uo
U.A.P., A.L.P., F.L.P., aye even Com.—ot
Croydon.
Has he heard of “Reduceyu”?
Away in the laboratories _ of Europe
chemists are toiling and moiling selflessly
for the benefit of just such cases as hts.
Does he ever think of them, think you, a
light of gratitude in his fine eyes?
Me fears not.
WHO GOES THERE? The chill, white
sunshine seeps down from a frigid winter
sky; glints fragmentanly amid the grey tol-
licles of his Akubra; spreads tide-like to the
dark blue of his natty serge suiting; strikes
upon the calf binding of the Good Book
’neath his arm. “Fatty!’’ cries a small
b 0 certainly q Lang llanner
Yes, ye myriad readers of the “Dribble,”
it is indeed he; the Hon. B. B. Stevens, the
weightiest Premier, for his inches, whose
tread the sun-drenched Mother State has
ever groaned under.
“One man, who used to be a cleaner in the city,
Is now doing well as a scrubcuttei.
It is a trifling change of chores
By which he earns his grub•
He used, of old, to scrub the floors
And now he floors the scrub.
* *
“I always feel ‘windy’ when I look at my bank-
book.”—Melbourne witness.
Moral: Avoid over-draughts.
* x
“With a shiek the woman fell In from off the
train.” — “World.”
Another double tragedy.
SYDNEY PROVISION MARKET.
June 11 marked the beginning of the open
season against Tin Hares. The guns or
sportsmen have been banging away vigh -
merrily ever since, the crack of the vine
being heard with particular insistence on the
moors round Macquarie-street.
N S W.’s fruit supply is seriously menaced,
a number of Fruit Machines, in full bearing,
having been wantonly pulled up by a certain
for the first time in 18 months,
are in no demand whatever. Thousands
refused to look at so much as one early this
month. _
There is also a slump in Ganders. It was
expected amongst the agriculturists of
Goulburn-street that Mother Goose ot
Auburn would shoo her Gander off its nest
and occupy the site herself, but the bird is
broody or something, and seems reluctant
to move. An unfortunate feature of the
business is that Mother Goose’s feathered
friend is sitting on billiard-balls —an un-
economic proceeding at best.
¥ *
“Should Patients Pay?”
They should, judging by the number of
doctors there are.
They call June 12 Stunday at Sydney
Trades Hall.
THE GIGGLEHOUSE PLAN.
Dear B„ —I have evolved a plan (“Gigele-
house is Right!”) for the economic rehabili-
tation of Australia, as follows:
Declare the recent N.S.W. elections bogus
and reinstate Mr. Lang with a manda e
bilk the entire world. Phis will foice om
overseas £lOO bonds down to approximately
Is lid. Now comes the master-stioke.
Appoint an agent (modesty debars me from
naming him) with instructions to get around
and quietly snap up the bonds. As there
would be no Government interest to pay
abroad, the exchange could then be pegged
at 625 p.c., tnus bringing our now modest
cheque for wheat and wool up to the 606
million-mark.
My close friends Cesare Borgia and Napo-
leon think highly of the plan, as does an
attendant friend. What say the electors of
our great State?—Yours etc., Gregory
Gigglehouse.
# *
He’s now a Jack-out-of-oftice.
* *
“She had first spoken to him when he asked her
to share some chips.”
The intro, was a dinkum one
By this we may infer:
He showed he wished, all said and done,
,To have a chip with her.
* *
MODEL ANSWERS.
(For Use of Sydney Sub-editors .)
Q. —-In writing up State _ Lottery drawings
a certain whimsy is essential. State it.
A. —“The presence of Mr. Whiddon’s
‘ballet’ of pretty girl-typistcs
lent a delightful touch of color
to the ballot.”
Q. —In describing trial of un-
known thug charged with razor-
slashing, what descriptive para-
graph will be most favored by
news editors?
A. —“Accused is one of Syd-
ney’s most daring gangsters —a
typical underworld leader.
Frank (“Scarface”) Mulligan
entered the dock clad in a well-
fitting suit of ox-blood serge with
a neat pencil stripe, a fashion-
able tie of orange and purple
diagonal bars, with a neat shirt
and collar to match. He lis-
tened nonchalantly while the
Crown case was being outlined.
occasionally conferring, a quiet,
confident smile on his mobile face, with his
counsel, the eminent Mr. Briefchaser, Iv.C.”
Q. —The special Wall writer has submitted
half a column of copy about an octogenarian
couple. lie has omitted the one phrase with-
out which the article could not be allowed
to go to press. Supply it.
A.—“ Darby and Joan, who still take a
keen interest in their trim garden, now
spend the twilight of their days quietly in
their neat suburban home, made happy by
the joyous laughter of their grand-children.
They are lovers still, though over half a
century has passed since, as a young man,
he took her for his blushing bride.”
Q. —You are confronted by two items of
outstanding interest. One is of vital import-
ance to Australia, the other deals with a
revolting murder. Choose your screamer
headlines.
A. —“Mutilated Blood-soaked Body Found
in Lonely Scrub.” y
ALAS, FOR CULTURE!
“I heard a youngster of eight summers address
his father as ‘big boy.’ At the time , the remark
passed unchecked, but when he desired to ask his
mother a question, and coriimenced with Say, Kia,
his father who, by the way, is an English master
at a Great Public School, stepped in and threatened
chastisement.” — F. A. Napier in “S. M. Herald.
Eight is, of course, the dangerous age.
Get an Australian kid safely into double
figures and the English master may be said
to have him. It is then the Antipodean
parents’ bounden duty, and should bo their
chiefest joy, to encourage me lad to be as
like a character in “Sandford and Merton
as possible. Yet what do we find? 1
recently heard the following dialogue between
one of ten summers, who had had the advan-
tage of tuition by an English master
Great Public School, and his father, who
emphatically hadn’t: —
Child: “I am desirous, Sir, of going with my
little playmate Alfie (I crave your pardon, Sir,
should have said Aelfred), to an improving lecture
by the Rev. Boils, M.A., on ‘The Humanism nt
Homer.’ Have I your permission?”
Father: “Er —what ?”
C.: (with exemplary patience ) : “The Rev. Boils,
M A., proposes to lecture on the ethical and philo-
sophical outlook of Homer, an eminent poet_ -of
ancient Greece. His works are possibly unfamiliar
to you, Sir, whose mental processes have been limited
these 30 years past to the intricacies —such as they
are —of the ironmongery trade”
F • “??!!!”
Mother: “Now, now, dad, don’t you go for to get
violent with ’im.”
C.: “Mentally improving, morally stimulating,
culturally inspiring, aye, I will go so far as to say
exciting”
I heard no more, for at this stage the
father removed his offspring’s spectacles,
took down the unhappy child’s tr-s-rs, and
gave him a sound thrashing. Such are the
handicaps under which English culture
labors in this barbaric land.
* *
MODERN ENDING.
I discovered that her cooking was awful
and that she thought man’s chief province in
life was to make money for his wife. At about
the same time she found out about the bill of
sale on my super-charged, straight-sixteen
limousine. So we didn’t marry and have
lived happily ever since! p o M C
H- *
DINKUM.
The sustenance official looked up sternly.
“You have made an application for relief,
he snapped, “stating that you have done no
work for 12 months.”
“Exactly. I’m an ex-M.L.A.
Application granted.
HIGHER COST OF LOVING.
“The Vic. Cabinet means to impose a fee on
church marriages, to be paid by stamp affixed to the
marriage notice.”
When a chap intent on duty
Is conducted by some beautu
To the halter,
He may falter
At the sight
Of the stamp that, costs a dollar,
lie mag/ fiddle with his collar,
Sihk with fright.
For the stamp’s distinctive figure
Symbolises the gold-digger
Which a maid,
I’m afraid,
Often is.
It may make him think sweet marriage
And resultant baby-carriage
Costly bis.
Still the chances are his terrors
Will be lulled. Men make these errors.
He and she
Will agree
To be one.
Few will let the grim reminder
On the matrimonial binder
Spoil their fun.
MOLLY M.
DESPERADO.
I’ve bearded lions in their lairs, shot jag-
u-ars Brazilian, and in the East’s bazaars
and fairs thought I was gone a million.
I’ve been where revolutions moved, and
helped (or foiled) the plotters, seen duch-
esses pursued by Reds and saved them from
the rotters. Many the furnace that lve
stoked to drive ships tempest-battered. With
queens I have serenely joked while army
corps were shattered.
I’ve solved grim crimes and scorned the
risk that faces interlopers; I have known
bootleg-vendors brisk and dull besotted
topers. And still upon my desp'rate road
“Can I assist you in any shape or form?”
I wander without flinching, while two-gun
men their shooters load or truss folk up tor
lynching, until my book falls to the mat and
I start widely yawning, put out the milk-jug,
light a nd cat, and go to sleep till morning.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


SHADOW SHOWS.
The pietists have done it at last. For
years Hollywood has been showing slabs or
life —political, financial, criminal, theatrical,
journalistic and so on —as it is actually
lived in the U.S.A., amid bleats of dis-
approval from the righteous. Much of it
was sordid; but then much of life is sordid,
as every newspaper reader knows. Now
George Arliss has come along in “The Man
Who Played God” with a talkie capable of
being shown at a Sydney Plaza preview to
1500 nuns. It should appeal to members
of the community who have deliberately
withdrawn themselves from life, or are re-
mote from life for other reasons, since it
has no more relation to the realities oi
existence than some of the popular dramas
of the pre-movie era. Arliss is a musician
who loses his hearing when, a bomb meant
for a royalty bursts near him. Instead of
taking his bad luck like a rational being, he
makes a whining old pest of himself to his
friends and servants, tries to commit sui-
cide, and denies his Maker in a speech which
probably hasn’t been surpassed. for bathos
since Henry Arthur Jones wrote his “Put back
Thy universe and give me yesterday” ora-
tion nearly half a century ago. His line of
argument is that the Creator, whom he pre-
sumably believed in while the World War
was on, is too cruel to be credible for having
let him get deaf! Later, he learns lip-
reading. becomes reconciled to' his fate, helps
those in trouble, and marries Violet
Heming. Moral: Be good and you will be
happy. Arliss gives a flawless performance of
its rather old-fashioned kind, first as the
spoiled darling of his public and the ladies,
and—-after the childish phase already men-
tioned—as one with a heart of gold and
plenty of money. But the mannerisms of
a charming old man which suited the part
in, say, “Disraeli” are painful when applied
to a love affair with the pretty flapper that
Bette Davis portrays. The other princi-
pals are efficient, but it is essentially a one-
man show. There is nothing arty about
the photography—it is just good, clear re-
presentational stuff, designed to heighten the
illusion that you are looking at a great
pianist in his habit as he lived—and the
sound-cutting and all technical effects are
excellent.
# * *
“The False Madonna,” the first of the
Sydney Regent features, is a variant on an
old, old theme. Kay Francis, one of a gang
of crooks, masquerades as the mother, of a
blind boy who is dying, and gets fond of
him. Inspired by a synthetic form of
mother-love, she refuses to go on with the
job, and before William Boyd, the head
crook, can make further trouble the boy
dies. So she marries Conway Tearle, de-
ceased’s guardian, who knew she was an
impostor all along, and Boyd slinks off
baffled. This is another one that might be
screened in any convent.
“The Devil’s Lottery,” which follows,
proves how good an English talkie can be
when it is made in Hollywood. The action
takes place in Devon, and all the principals
are English except a couple of colorless
American lovers. This critic only noticed
one slip: Elissa Landi and Ralph Morgan go
for a ride on hacks whose tails almost sweep
the ground. If you can accept the original
premise*—that the owner of Porlock Castle
should have asked the chief winners in a
Calcutta sweep to stay with him —it is easy
to believe what follows. Everybody behaves
in character. Elissa Landi, an adventuress,
turns up with Paul Cavanagh, who was
kicked out of his London club for card-
sharping. He cheats Victor McLaglen, a
Cockney wrong-’un, and Beryl Mercer,
McLaglen’s mother, is accidentally suffo-
cated While trying to safeguard the money
her son has tried to steal from her to pay
his debt. McLaglen, who has left after the
inquest, comes back when he discovers he
has been swindled, and murders Cavanagh.
The young American, who has been sepa-
rated from his ; fiancee by the charms of
Elissa, is suspected of the murder. The girl
stands by him and so wans him back, and
Elissa pairs off with a war-casualty whom
she met in the long ago'. Halliwell Hobbes
wanders through the piece looking and be-
having as an elderly peer might be expected
to behave in the circumstances. The set-
tings of Epsom and the West country are
beautifully contrived and photographed, and
the dialogue is bright.
* * #
Adolphe Menjou plays “The Great Lover”
at Sydney State. Oddly enough it isn’t as
effective on the screen as it seemed when
seen here some years back with a mediocre
stage cast. Menjou isn’t as convincing as he
might be as Paurel; he seems a shade light
tor the part. Irene Dunn and Neil Hamil-
ton are also disappointing. But for the
humor of Ernest Torrence and one or two
others this would be a dull film.
¥ # #
‘The Easiest Way,” at Sydney iCapitol,
features Constance Bennett, Adolphe Men-
jou, Clark Gable, Robert Montgomery, Anita
Page, Marjorie Rambeau, and one or two
more, yet it remains a third-rater. Miss
Bennett, a woiking goil, is added to
Adolphe’s collection. She gives some of her
ill-gotten riches to her father, a bootleg
addict, but is rejected by her mother, and
by Clark Gable, her laundry-man brother-in-
law. He goes so far as to forbid her sister,
Anita Page, to have anything to do with
her. And now .Constance falls in love with
Robert Montgomery, a journalist. She
takes the easiest way when Robert goes
abroad on business, tries to regain hint
when he returns, but is exposed by
Menjou, and turned down by Montgomery.
Homeless and illclothed, she is eventualiy
sheltered from the wintry blast by Mr.
Cable, and so a stupid story ends.
* * *
Sydney Mayfair and Haymarket are shar-
ing police-court dramas. “Attorney for the
Defence” is commonplace, though' Edmund
Lowe presents an attorney who successfully
defends himself on a murder chai’ge. “Are
I liese Our Children?” is a morality play of
;°. rts - Erie Linden and his boy‘and girl
mends_ have many points of resemblance to
the celebrated “Wild Children” of Soviet
Russia. Eventually he commits a murder,
decides like the young ass he is to conduct
his own defence, is given away by a n accom-
plice, and is sentenced to death. Two of the
other morons get life. The lesson is there
tor all to see, but it is overstressed.
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY
Established 1879.
ACTUARIAL REPORT FOR 1931.
The Actuary, Mr. G. F. Diamond,
A.1.A., has reported to the Board that, as
the result of the annual actuarial investi-
gation of the Society’s liabilities on its
Policies to its members as at the 31st
December last there was a surplus avail-
able for distribution to the members of
the magnificent sum of over £460,000,
and that’ bonuses could be paid at the
same rate as last year.
Remembering that the Society’s re-
serves were added to at the close of last
year by £120,000 and that for the year
1931 Interest amounting to well over
£lOO,OOO was not taken into the accounts,
in view of the Moratorium Bill in New
South Wales whereby borrowers were
enabled to postpone their payments, the
result must be considered as extremely
gratifying.
WHAT TO DO WITH THE SURPLUS.
The question then arose, what to do
with the surplus, and the matter gave
the Directors anxious consideration.
As Chairman, I expressed the opinion
strongly that I would add it to the dis-
closed reserves of the Society, making
them well over £BOO,OOO on funds of
approximately six and a quarter millions
of money. My reason was simply my life-
long and continually repeated assertion
that the first, the last and the only duty
of the Directors of a Mutual Life Office
was to zealously guard and carefully con-
serve the moneys entrusted to it, and
make sure, so far as careful and honest
control could make sure, that the pro-
vision made by thoughtful heads of
families for those dependent on them
should be carried out.
Bonuses, I argued and have always
argued, were quite a secondary issue. It
was, of course, pleasant to pay bonuses.
It was gratifying to see a Policy double
itself, as so many City Mutual Policies
have doubled themselves during the years.
It was—and I quite frankly admit it—
something to preen oneself about that the
Company with which he had the honor to
be connected was handing out the largest
bonuses in the world for the past 15 or
20 years.
But it was not everything.
THE SHADOW OF A GREAT
TROUBLE.
The shadow of a great trouble has
fallen across Australia. We are an export-
ing country, and we are at the same time
a debtor country. Our exports have fallen
in value by fully one-half. Our debts have
not decreased by one fraction. In fact,
they are more now than they ever were
on account of the adverse exchange of
25 per cent, and more.
In the past we made but poor attempts
to pay our interest out of our income.
We paid it too often out of the proceeds
of more borrowing.
And now we cannot borrow any more,
at all events for the present.
Perhaps it is just as well for us all
that we cannot do so.
There comes a time in the history of
a nation as well as that of an individual
when he realises that he must live within
his own resources, for the present at all
events.
And then he looks round and takes
stock, as it were.
Well, I can foresee heavier taxation,
and still more belt-tightening. I am sorry
to say it, but I think it is as certain as
that the sun will rise to-morrow morning.
And of this I feel sure, too, I can fore-
see Australia manfully standing up to it.
Australia has already during the past six
months given evidence of that. I need not
go into details. So far as one experience
is concerned, it is much too sordid and
too degrading. It has been a nightmare
for all of us.
But it is going to hurt while the pain-
ful process of reconstruction takes place.
I wish I could see some other way out
of it, but I cannot.
OLD MEMORIES.
Year after year, you may remember, I
kept pointing out at the Society’s Annual
Meetings (and I think I was the only Life
Assurance chairman in Australia who
gave the subject the slightest considera-
tion) that in the years of plenty we were
then experiencing Australia should make
some provision for the lean years which,
if history repeated itself as it always does,
were sure to follow. The City Mutual
did it, why not the nation? I had not
forgotten 1893 and the time we then
went through.
Ah, well, let it go.
There are four words no considerate
man ever likes using, and they are, “I
told you so.”
“But,” argued Mr. George E. Bryant,
the Deputy Chairman, “the surplus is there.
It belongs to the Policy-holders. It does
not belong to posterity. And I agree
with the famous Sir Boyle Roche in the
House of Commons many years ago,
when he asked, ‘What has posterity ever
done for us?’’’
UNSCRUPULOUS RIVALS.
“One point,” continued Mr. Bryant, “I
want to mention. If we pass this bonus
as you suggest, and put the £460,000 to
reserves, the men who have built up the
City Mutual in the past, the hard-working
men in the field who too often get all the
kicks and very little of the recognition,
will be seriously handicapped by the slan-
GEORGE CROWLEY
derous tongues of your chivalrous rivals
in the Life Assurance field, who, with one
or two exceptions, have as much sense
of the decencies of honest competition as
the North Australian aborigines had
a few days ago when they dined on the
German aviators who appealed to them
for succor while cast away on an inhospit-
able shore.”
I recalled a conversation which I re-
cently had with that thoughtful citizen,
Mr. James Ashton, M.L.C. (himself Chair-
man of a kindred Life Assurance institu-
tion), in the course of which he expressed
the decided opinion that the great cause of
Life Assurance would be affected most
adversely by the circulation of slanderous
attacks and unworthy guerilla warfare
between the old and tried, well-established
institutions.
“The agents are fighting for a living
quite possibly,” he said, * but if in fighting
for a living they destroy the confidence
of the people in the stability of their well-
proved auxiliaries for sustenance in their
old age or the security of their families
for whom they have deprived themselves
of luxuries the best part of their lives, the
effect would be deplorable.” I heartily
agreed with him.
A THIRD REASON.
But Chevalier Bryant had another and
a third string to his bow. In an elo-
quent peroration he said, “Will not the
declaration of this bonus—small and all
as it is compared with the aggregate
bonuses of Australia’s Life Offices—be a
beacon-light to the public that someone
has confidence in the future of this great
country, the wealth-producing sources of
which have yet scarcely been tapped?
Will it not show clearly and unmistakably
that we, at all events, have the utmost
confidence in the speedy restoration of
normal conditions?
“And that, anxious and all as we are
to preserve in the first place the absolute
safety of the millions of funds entrusted
to us (for, after all, that is our main con-
sideration), we say boldly and without
reserve that the triumphant march of
this Australian nation to an even higher
era of prosperity can under proper safe-
guards be well within our ambit.”
That settled it so far as I was con-
cerned, and his Co-directors agreed.
Mr. Diamond’s recommendation was
adopted. The certificates will go out
during the next few days, and nearly
£lOO,OOO be carried over to the current
vear.
A FINAL WORD.
Now, just one word more, and I am
done. I always come back to the same
theme, like King Charles’s head.
When I was talking year by year the
way I used to do at the annual meetings
and endeavoring to arrest the attention
of those responsible, I was the victim of a
tirade of abuse from all quarters, not even
omitting the Federal Government repre-
sentative at the time in London, Mr. J. R.
Collins, through the “London Times.”
Here in my own State I was called “a
calamity howler,” “a pessimist,” a “tra-
ducer of his country,” among other choice
epithets, some of which are unprintable.
Day by day 1 got numberless anony-
mous letters traducing me and mine to
the fourth generation. “Why didn’t I
mind my own business?” “Let the shoe-
maker stick to his last,” and other advice
ad infinitum. “An advertising blather-
skite,” “ignoramus.” These were mild
words in the vocabulary of abuse.
And now let me take another risk and
chance being called an “inflationist,” a
“nation wrecker,” a “German copyist.’
I was recently reading the Presidential
Address of Mr. Henry Moir in connec-
tion with the proceedings of the Insurance
Institute of America, and 1 was struck
with one of his thoughtful remarks:—
"The economic pendulum always
swings too far. The boom times con-
tinued too long and were too enthusi-
astic; the break when it came was
severe, will be too severe, and continue
longer than it ought. At the same
time, we cannot cure a disease by pre-
tending the disease does not exist, nor
by talking enthusiasm when everyone
has in the back of his mind the feeling
that optimism is out of place. We have
to look seriously and soberly at any
situation and plan earnestly to bring
stability out of disorder.”
I say to the Federal Government, as
I have said before over and over again:
“Let loose 10 per cent, of your internal
Commonwealth Stock, 50 millions of it.
It is going to give us currency. It is going
to reduce interest. It is going to mean
50 million benefits to Australia with, so
far as I can see, no material adverse
results.”
When, last year, I was offered a seat
on the Board of the Commonwealth Bank,
I would willingly have accepted it, solely
to promulgate this view. And if I had
not been obsessed by the fear and dread of
what was likely to happen in my own
State of New South Wales (and goodness
knows there was reason for it) I would
have been sitting on that board to-day
endeavoring to persuade my Co-directors
to look at the matter from my point of
view.
Let loose 50 millions of currency.
Don’t worry over Germans and what
Germany did. That was done deliberately
to defeat the hated reparations. France
managed things better, much better. And
Australia, with proper safeguards which
are, needless to stress, essential, will
manage even better still.
GEO. CROWLEY
Chairman.
24/6/’3 2.


A Graceful Tribute
FROM A DISTINGUISHED OPERATIC ARTIST
iiiiilliiiiillllii
W-.
III1II! 1
; mm j
mm
lililllll!
ipiipiifl
■i
iiiiiii
Pliip*
mil®
Pplii
ssSs
msiiifi
ipiill
PSP®:
sSISii
lllllltli
■I
■■Mi
Sjt
m
rnmmm
:
-Si
iiSSSixSSSsisSSSSSs;:;
:
iiiiiir
sdf
sdf
CESARINA VALOBRA
Lyric soprano of the Williamson-
Imperial Grand Opera Company, and one
of the most distinguished artists from
La Scala, Milan. Chosen hy Toscanini
and members of the Puccini family to sing
the roles of “Mimi” in “La Boheme ” and
“Madam Butterfly* ’ on the occasion of the
opening of the new theatre, built in
memory of Puccini, in Milan.
o
I cannot say how delighted I am to
visit Australia. Your people are so
friendly and have such a high appre-
ciation of the best music. I feel sure
I will be happy among you.
“I am amazed at the tone of your
Radiola. It is perfectly beautiful.
It almost seems as if the broadcasting
artists were in the same room.”
<== 'FISK SERIES
RADIOL A 55
sdf
In this remarkable Radiola A.W.A. has
introduced an entirely new and amazing
radio development, giving Interstate recep-
tion without aerial or earth and with no
interference. The Radiola is also extremely
silent in operation. Priced at £37/10/-,
equipped with Radiotrons.
Hear for yourself the magnificent tone of the
Radiola 55E at your nearest Radiola Dealer.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS CA/SIA) LTD.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DITBCtOTS •
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW. V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
sdf
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
YEARS ago,, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
<3g PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD*
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
VS.vv.. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ 00-operative Grain Insurance and
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
FERTILISERS AN INVESTMENT.
“N. P. Kay”: It is a mistake to skimp
the fertiliser, and a tragedy to do without it.
Fertilisers on the farm are an investment, not
an expense. After many years of study and
experience I am convinced that we are be-
hind the times in fertiliser practice, except
as regards wheat and pastures—and pasture
fertilising is still in its infancy.
The three fertilising constituents are
phosphoric acid, nitrogen and potash. It is
interesting to learn the ratio in which these
substances are included in certain crops.
The average pasture will contain a pound of
phosphoric acid for every 41b. of nitrogen
and 3slb. of potash. The following table
of ratios shows the pounds of nitrogen and
potash to every pound of phosphoric acid
contained in plants, etc.: —
Phos. Acid. Nitrogen. Potash.
Lucerne . . . . 11b. slb. 41b.
Rape . . . . lib. 31b. 211 b.
Pumpkins . . . . lib. -Jib. lib.
Carrots . . . . lib. 1 Jib. (ilb.
Tomatoes .. . . lib. 31b. Sib.
Citrus leaves . . lib. 71b. 511>.
Wheat plant . . lib. 2.21 b. 411 b.
Cow’s milk . . lib. 31b. lib.
A cursory glance at these ratios will show
the wide range of plant-food demands. A
moment’s reflection will suggest the advis-
ability of manuring with a complete fer-
tiliser in all cases of intense culture.
Provided the humus and lime content of
the soil is attended to by means of green
manuring and dressings of mild lime, a com-
plete fertiliser judiciously applied will satisfy
requirements, both in quantity and quality.
Of course, one must have a good idea of
the strength of the soil in potential plant
food —that is, fertilising constituents which,
by means of cultivation and crop rotation,
the use of ameliorators and the attendant,
changes, may be made available for use of
the crop. A clay soil comparatively rich in
potash, with a subsoil containing a heap of
potash, should not be dressed with a coxn-
plete fertiliser very rich in potash. Sinri-
larly a soil rich in nitrogen should not be
dressed with a complete manure containing
more than, say, 2 per cent, of nitrogen.
Light sandy soils may be taken to be poor
in plant-food content; they should be ti'eated
with a complete fertiliser, with a well-
balanced ratio of plant food. No hard-and-
fast rule can be laid down for calculating
a correct formula, nor is it suggested
that a different complete fertiliser should be
used on the different crops.
The natural complete manure is animal or
human excreta. The complete artificial fer-
tiliser is a splendid substitute when used in
conjunction with gi'een manure and mild lime.
Complete fertilisers of varying strength are
available from the manufacturers. These
do great woi*k, but it seems a pity that they
are not blended for use in the various soil
types; for example, a complete manure for
loam soils, for sandy soils, for mild clay and
so forth.
If the crop won’t pay to manure, don’t
grow it; look for one that will. And do not
attempt to gi'ow any crop without using
supei - . as a starter.
BLOOD-MEAL FOR MERINOS.
A successful experiment in feeding blood-
meal to merino sheep is reported by Hedley
R. Marston in a bulletin issued by the Coun-
cil for Scientific and Industrial Research.
Portion of Meteor Downs, a typical Central
Queensland run, was chosen for the experi-
ment ; it is blacksoil country, heavily
grassed, but the natural pasture for many
months is deficient in protein. The blood-
meal from the slaughter-house contained
SO-85 per cent, protein, and approximately
2.7 per cent, cystine. It was sterilised,
finely-ground and put in covered troughs
near drinking-places.
Four hundred ewes in lamb wei-e divided
into two groups by alternate selection as
they passed through a race. The animals
were drenched with carbon tetrachloride to
combat the infection with Ileemonchus con-
tortus, generally experienced ixi Central
Queensland, and the lambs subsequently
dosed at frequent intervals. The paddocks
on which they wei'e placed were of the same
size, the conditions being as even as pos-
sible. The group whose lambs were to act
as controls was selected by the toss of a
coin.
When the lambs were dropped they wei'e
eai'-tagged and weighed, and the date of
birth recorded. As soon as the quota (120)
were born in each group, the excess ewes
were removed. The animals utilised for the
eyperiment were weighed each week over
the experimental period of two years. The
croups were periodically interchanged from
paddock to paddock. At six months the
lambs were weaned and the ewes removed.
Both groups were offered a salt-lick consist-
ing of ground Nauru phosphate, 60 parts,
and salt, 40 parts.
Throughout the first year the sheep which
got the blood-meal grew better, and afishear-
ing their mean weight was some 10 per cent,
above that of the controls. They cut a
mean weight of 110.90 z. of wool; the other
group cut a mean weight of 80.90 z in-
crease of over 30 per cent, of wool, the
quality of wdiich tended to a well-grown
64’s. The fleeces of the sheep that did not
get blood-meal were predominately 64’s, but
many poorly-grown and tender 70’s were
represented. The intake of blood-meal varied
with the prevailing fodder conditions, more
being taken as the fodder conditions became
worse during the winter months, when the
quantity reached a maximum of 6oz. per
head per week. Second-year fodder conditions
were more evenly distributed, and the mean
body ■weight of the sheep deprived of blood-
meal reached that of the other group at
the time of the 1930-31 shearing. But the
difference in wool clip was greater than at the
first shearing. The group receiving blood-
meal cut a mean fleece of 130.30 z.; the
others cut 95.60 z. The quality of the clip
was not changed perceptibly; in both groups
fleeces of 64’s quality predominated.
The classer’s report on the first clip was
that the wool from the blood-meal animals
was better nourished and showed “a better-
defined character” than the fleeces from the
other lot; on the second clip, that the
blood-meal group “cut bulkier and denser
fleeces with a bolder staple of better-nour-
ished wool—the difference is decidedly more
outstanding than last year.” So Mr. Mars-
ton is strongly of the opinion that “the
supplement of blood-meal taken by sheep
during the seasonal protein shortage experi-
enced in Central Queensland results in a
material increase in the amount of wool.”
He adds, however, that “it would be un-
reasonable to expect a response of such mag-
nitude from supplementing pastures which
are already rich in protein, or by feeding the
supplement at a higher level.” By way of
conclusion, he glances at a South African
experiment, in the supplementary feeding of
sheep on poor pastures. In this case the
sheep were given a mixture of fish-meak
40 per cent., meat-meal, 10 per cent., and
Sim-Sim cake, 50 per cent. This resulted
in an increase of about 30 per cent, in the
weight of fleece grown, and a general im-
provement in wool quality.
NO SECOND CUTS!
“Murrawong”: I once knew a shearing
contractor whose stock form of “ch’pping”
a rough shearer was: “Look, Bill, the
owner wants the wool and the sheep wants
his skin. Unnerstand?” There are several
ways of taking off a fleece. The right way
is that of the shearer who keeps down on
his sheep; the wrong way, that of the man
whose machine works faster than his eye
can keep up and has to go over the same
ground twice, producing a mutilated fleece
and a harvest of second cuts.
The wool market is in such a state that
low lines of wool such as locks, which in-
clude the short second cuts, are not worth
marketing. It would be a much saner plan
to sacrifice the appearance of the shorn
sheep by leaving that little wool on them
to add to nex:t year’s fleece than to lose it
altogether as unsaleable locks. Shearers
should be notified before the start that no
second cuts are to be made. I know
one large N.S.W. station where this policy
has been successfully carried out for years.
Contrary to the popular notion, it is con-
ducive to better shearing, as the shearer
must keep down and make a clean first blow.
Under present economic conditions it could
profitably be made a general rule for the
coming season.
ARTHRITIS IN LAMBS.
“Valerin”: In parts of Riverina this sea-
son lambs from a week old are being affected
by arthritis —“lameness” is the word most
used.. The joints develop a slight swelling,
and become so stiff and hard that the lambs
can only hobble about. This disea-e is not
a new one, because odd lambs with swollen
joints are found in nearly every flock, but
its rapid increase is causing some concern.
It is due to the entrance of a germ through
the unhealed umbilical or navel cord, which
sets up blood-poisoning and the formation
of pus in the affected joints. There is no
remedy. The best preventive is, as soon
as it is noted, to remove the flock to an-
other paddock. Some owners recommend
marking the lambs as early as possible, but
it is doubtful if that can be termed a
“remedy.”
NEW VARIETIES OF OATS.
The N.S.W. “Agricultural Gazette” will
miss the contributions of Allan R. Callaghan,
D.Phil., B.Sc. (Oxon.), B.Sc.Agr., who at the
age of 27 has been appointed principal of
Roseworthy College (S.A.). A Rhodes
scholar from Bathurst, Dr. Callaghan is
assistant plant-breeder at the Wagga Gov-
ernment experiment farm. His series of
articles on varieties of oats in N. S. Wales
has been read with interest and profit by
a multitude of farmers. In the latest (not,
it is to be hoped, the last), he mentions
some new varieties of promise.
One of these is Bombo, bred from the
cross Abruzzes by Victory. Bombo matures
a few days later than Algerian. Says Dr.
Callaghan: “It bears a dense productive
panicle, tillers well and possesses straw of
medium height that is fine but strong, clastic
and capable of standing. It has no tendency
to shatter and yields a good sample of
brown grain. Under tableland conditions
it should do very well, and in such districts
it is likely to be a strong rival to Algerian.
It has yielded most satisfactorily in the stud
plots at Bathurst. Although susceptible to
stem rust, it does not appear to suffer as
severely as Algerian. It is susceptible to
loose smut.”
Of Lampton, the Bathurst scientist
writes: “This variety was bred by crossing
an unnamed strain of Abruzzes x Victory
with Reid. It also is a few days later-matur-
ing than Algerian and has tall medium-coarse
straw. Its large ovoidal panicle is thickly
laden with spikelets; this, combined with a
high tillering coefficient and exceptional
vigor, accounts for its productiveness. The
grain of Hampton is quite satisfactory and
is of a shiny brown color. It is of especial
promise at Bathurst and should suit table-
land districts well.”
Then there is Ivareela, which “originated
as a selection from Fulghum. It is later
than either Mulga or Fulghum, but slightly
earlier than Guyra. It has stronger, better
standing straw than Fulghum. The grain
characters of Ivareela are only average, but
in point of yield it has given better results
than Mulga in the stud plots at both Cowra
and Wagga. In the grazing oat tests it has
given consistently good results, which are
accounted for by its early vigor and
recovery power. It is as a grazing type
that Ivareela is of most promise. It is
highly susceptible to stem rust, but it has
proved highly resistant to loose smut.”
Lastly Boppy, “bred by crossing two un-
named strains of the cross White Ligowo x
Algerian. It has a very high tillering capa-
city ; its straw has the "fineness and strength
of Algerian, but is slightly taller and its
panicle is large, open and spreading. In
grain characters and maturity it is very similar
to Algerian. So far it has given very sat-
isfactory yields in the stud plots at Wagga
and as a dual-purpose type it shows evi-
dence of rivalling Algerian.” But Boppy is
highly susceptible to stem rust and oak
smut.
The work of our plant-breeders has had
scant recognition in Australia. It is inspirit-
ing to see one of the youngest—and, of
course, not the least distinguished—of them
selected for so high a post.
DRIVING BELTS.
“Kripple”: “Bill R.” (B. 18/5/’32) tells
how to fix a driving belt when it inclines to
run off pulleys. Good advice when the belt
is at fault, but as a rule the trouble lies
elsewhere. The most common cause arises
through driving and driven shafts being
out of parallel. To rectify, stretch a line
from outer rim of driving pulley to outer
rim of driven, keeping it as near hubs as
possible. Daylight just showing between
string and inner edges of pulleys will give a
good setting. Shafts should, of course, be
level. Crowned pulleys (convex surface)
tend to keep belts running centrally, but
are not advisable where shifting belts are
required.
Overloaded belts will leave pulleys, though
setting be correct otherwise. See that there
is no foreign matter jambing the machine or
causing undue friction. Belts may be too
narrow to convey sufficient power—fit
wider ones. Avoid short drives —have noth-
ing under 15ft. between shaft centres, if pos-
sible. Tight belts throw excessive strain on
bearings without advantages. Plastering
sticky stuff on belts and use of crowbars to
keep them on their job are sure indications
that expert attention is required. A dreadful
amount of time is lost in the bush for lack
of knowledge on the subject of driving belts,
and these remarks may be helpful, though
much more could be written.
SELECTING A DAIRY HEIFER.
A Queensland correspondent wrote to The
Bulletin’s Service Department for infor-
mation to guide him in the purchase of a
dairy heifer. His letter was referred to
the State Department of Agriculture and
Stock, which with its customary courtesy
and anxiety to help settlers —a character-
istic of all these departments in Australia,
as The Bulletin has found —prepared a
most instructive reply. It is published
below for general information.
“In the choice of a dairy heifer, the form
and general character will, to a great ex-
tent, indicate whether she is fitted by nature
to develop into a good producer. Careful
selection and breeding of high-class dairy
stock establish conformation and type. A
calf bred on dairy lines possesses dairy form
and character, as distinct from the beef
form and character. The trained eye of
the judge can gee the dairy value of the
calf and can discern the dairy type, as dis-
tinct from the beef type, in a heifer when
quite young.
“Pedigree and production records of her
dams on both sides are important factors
in determining the future dairy value of the
young heifer and as a guidance in the selec-
tion of better-class dairy stock. Constitu-
tion is important in the young heifer. A
deficiency in any quality necessary to ensure
a well-grown, well-developed, thrifty animal
indicates that the heifer will not make a.
profitable dairy cow.
“The form of the heifer with a future is
in miniature a duplicate of a good-type,
fully-developed dairy female. The dairy
characteristics of the calf are indicated by
an absence of any surplus flesh; she is
somewhat angular and spare.
“The head is typical of her breed, the eye
large and bright, the muzzle large, the ears
of average size, the neck lean and lengthy,
sloping with the shoulders. She is sharp
over the shoulders, and the ribs are well
sprung, with good heart girth. The fore-
quarters are light. The digestive capacity is
indicated by the depth through the barrel
from the centre of the back to the navel.
Good depth evidences ample power to con-
vert the food into milk; the greater the
death through the middle the greater the
production is likely to be. The back is
straight. There is good length from the hip
to the pin-bones, and from the hip to the
flank. The thighs are flat and free from
fleshiness; the line of the thigh is in-curv-
ing. The bones should be light and not
coarse. The tail should be thin and free
from flesh. All of these points should in-
dicate that there is no tendency to lay on
flesh.
“The as-yet undeveloped udder, milk veins
and wells are reliable indications of the
heifer’s future value as a dairy animal. The
skin covering and surrounding the imma-
ture udder is soft and loose, with teats well
placed. The milk veins can be followed
with the finger, and milk wells gauged.
Comparatively well-developed milk veins and
large milk wells indicate usefulness as a
dairy cow. The hair is soft, fine and oily;
the skin thin, loose, soft and, pliable to the
feel. The animal should be bright and
thrifty, indicating a good constitution and
capable of development by proper feeding
and handling.
“Select the heifer with care. Pedigree, as
stated, is important, but do not allow the
influence of pedigree to override your better
judgment as to grave faults that she may
possess, especially lack of constitution.”
MAKING A DAM.
“Booraby” : There are many ways of dam-
ming a creek or gully, but making a bank
across with earth and stones is only a waste
of time and effort, if the course is subject
to a strong rush of flood waters. One way
is to dig a trench well into the bank on
each side and across the creek bed. Then
drop in heavy logs to form a wall to the
top of the bank. Another way to make a
wall is to drop a heavy log in the bottom,
squared on the upper side, and place a
longer log across the top, also squared on
the side that faces upstream. Then spike
heavy slabs, fitted closely together, to the
two log::. The bottom ends of the slabs
should rest on rock or be well embedded in
stiff clay.
When the wall is complete, pug the upper
side; that is, make a bank of stiff clay
right across and sloping from the top of
the wall to the bed of the creek. Finish with
a layer of stones. Next make an overshot
with long saplings, laid s : de by side to cover
the whole of the clay and stone bank. Sink
bottom ends of saplings a couple of feet
in the bed of the creek and spike the top
ends to the top log. If the dam is wanted
to hold water right to the top of the bank,
another log will be necessary, Bft. or 10ft.
from the other, and the space between filled
with clay.
The saplings break the force of the flood
water, which shoots along them and over
the log as the creek fills. At the same
time silt from the flood is caught by the
stones and fills up the crevices, making the
dam more compact and watertight, whereas,
without the protecting saplings, the shock of
a heavy rush of water would break up the
(Continued on next page.)


V
SJ
ET
0
A special fitting in
shape, width and length
There’s no tightness over the
instep arch with this Abbey
Shoe. Its upper curves to
accommodate the curve of the
foot. And it is more comfort-
able because you are fitted
exactly for both width and
length.... each full and half
size is made in four fittings.
Australia’s toughest leather is
used for the sole.
ORDER BY POST.
State whether you need narrow,
medium, wide or extra wide fitting,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or
a handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY. BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 287
For Sale.
jgUOKEYE INCUBATOR FOR SALE.—
6144-egg capacity, setting weekly. Auto,
trays, fans, thermometers, copper boiler and
piping and all fittings solid brass. In
splendid order, and owner will sell cheap.
Apply MANN & GAMBLE, LTD., 193
Valentine Street, (near P.D.S.), Sydney.
"THE AGE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 119,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
mono?
aaaslSn jo
33N3553 ONflOdWO) ,
£AV.
BUSINESS IS
BOOMING!
BE IN THE BOOM
Note the Perth
Progressive gross circulation figures
from February 7 to June 12, 1932:
February 7 28,200
„ 21 30,600
March 6 31,400
„ 20 32,100
April 3 34,250
„ 17 35,590
May 1 37,400
„ 15 41,250
„ 29 42,400
June 12 47,000
The “Sunday Times” is the most
widely-discussed paper in the West.
As an advertising medium for results
it stands alone. Why not try it?
TRADE 0 MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAYBESTOS
“Silver Edge ”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
lan inexpensive stock saddle
Iff
■
ll
. I*
Price Bare
£5/2/6
Mounts extra.
Leathers 6/-
Girth . . 5/-
N.P. Irons 6/6
Complete £6
Freight paid for cash
with order to any
N.S.W. railway station.
Write for list of cheap saddles, bridles, whips, collars, <fcc.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 George Street, Sydney.
35 YEARS’ TRUTHFUL ADVERTISING.
THE “STOCKRIDER”
This saddle is exceptionally good value
for the money, and has pigskin seat
and capped pads set well up along the
rider's thighs. The position of the pads
gives greater security to the rider.
N°B
STATION
STOCK
WHIPS
ALL KANGAROO
PLAITED INSIDE
BELLIES.
No. 8,
7ft.
No. 9,
Bft.
Postage;
with 10-plait handle, and
10-plait thong . • 19/6
with 12-plait handle, and
12-plait thong . • 25/-
• N.S.W. 1/-. O.’l’d and Vic. 1/6-
clay bank by continually churning it, though
it might be well packed and of a greasy
nature.
Finally, make a good bed of heavy stones
on the lower side of the wall to prevent
erosion by the overflow. If there is a rocky
bottom this is unnecessary.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) How to collect subterranean clover
seed, and at what stage to harvest it? (2)
Best market for marram grass, roots or
seeds. What is their value? —3Bo.
(1) Sub. clover is ripe when the seed has
set hard. At this time the stems and leaves
will be quite dry. The crop is then raked
(with hand-hoes for maximum returns or a
horse-rake for lighter yields) and passed
through a power thresher, which separates
the seed burrs from the stems. For the pre-
paration of commercial seed the pods and
burrs are run through a special hulling
machine, which removes the outer covering.
(2) As marram-grass seed lacks fertility and
Usually shows a very low-percentage germin-
ation, there is very little market for it.
Roots are always preferred. Price varies,
but is usually about 4s. to ss. per hundred.
(1) Will olives grow in Queensland?
What class of soil is required, and is irriga-
tion needed? (2) How many trees to an
acre, and are they raised from seeds or
cuttings? (3) Where can seeds or cuttings
be procured? (4) What yield per acre of
olives, also gallons of oil and price per
gallon?—- 458.
(1) Yes; they grow well along the West-
ern line, at Moola, Roma, Miles and War-
wick. The soil most suited is of a light
loamy nature, though they will grow well in
other soils. Coastal districts with their low
altitude and humid atmospheres are not
entirely suitable. So far as irrigation is con-
cerned, though the olive will stand a lot of
dry weather, an occasional watering is of
undoubted benefit. (2) Planted 24ft. apart,
75 trees go to the acre. Plants are easily
raised from cuttings or truncheons. (3)
Cuttings or truncheons may be obtained from
the Stoneyfell Olive Co., c/o Crompton and
Son, Flinders-sti-eet, Adelaide. This firm
has the biggest olive plantation in South
Aus. (4) The l’eturns from an olive plan-
tation are given as up to 20901 b. per 109
trees, yielding 600 gallons of oil. The price
paid for imported olive oil is about 15s.
per gallon.
I leant to instal a pumping plant in my
W.Q. garden. Jt is 250 yards from a water-
hole, with a 30 -feet lift. What pump do
you recommend? What horse-power engine
for 2 in. piping? —4so.
It would be impossible to instal a pump
250 yai'ds from supply water and i*ising
30ft. The practical height a pump will
draw water at sea level is 25ft. To be
effective the pump would have to be placed
near the waterhole. The pump recom-
mended is a double-acting brass-lined liori-
zontal-piston pump. The output could be
up to 5000 gallons per hour, and the h.p.
recommended is 71. Smaller plants, less
output and less h.p.
(1) Would the farming of silver foxes be
profitable in Victoria? (2) Book on the
subject? (3) Has any such venture been
tried in Australia?- —153.
(1) Impossible t 0 say. No data on which
to base an estimate of the cost of farming
them and the value of the skins. (2) Try
“Fur Farming for Profit,” by F. G. Asli-
brook. (3) The Yic. Agricultural Depart-
ment knows of none. Before silver foxes
could be farmed it would be necessary to
obtain the approval of the Governor-in-
Council.
In pruning Granny Smith trees —mine arc
three-year-olds—what is the best method of
dealing with lateral growth, more especially
the strong growth? —3lo,
In various types of soil in certain dis-
tricts of N. S. Wales the Granny Smith
makes very strong growth, but the limbs re-
main almost bare. In other districts the
trees develop laterals and blossom buds
freely along each limb, there being no diffi-
culty in furnishing the trees with spurs. In
districts whei’e the limbs are inclined to run
bare, hard pinching back of the leaders dur-
ing the growing season is essential in order
to force out lateral growth to form into
spurs. When leaders do not develop laterals
and spurs freely they are susceptible to sun
scald, which lias a hai’dening effect upon
about sin. of growth. The Granny Smith
tree should always be cut back. Weak and
medium laterals should be shortened to about
sin. of the main or secondaiy limb, and
strong laterals to about lin. of the limb
from which they are growing. If Granny
Smith laterals are left long they do not
spur satisfactorily, most of the blossom buds
being carried on the tips of the laterals.
Strong laterals when cut back to about Jin.
usually send out the following spring three
or four medium-sized laterals; these may be
cut back dui’ing the following winter, leaving
about sin. of gi’owth. The Granny Smith
tree should ~be pruned in such a manner
that; a large number of main and secondary
limbs are developed.
A few of my black Orpingtons have be-
come mopy and have lost their t appetite;
combs have turned black, and droppings are
milky-green. They are fed on bran and
pollard in the morning and wheat in the
evening. What is wrong, and can you sug-
gest a treatment? —36s.
The birds are probably suffering from
enteritis, which could be caused by the con-
sumption of some mouldy food or contami-
nated drinking watei-, perhaps from stagnant
pools. Ti’eatment suggested is a dessert-
spoon of castor oil, followed with doses,
twice daily, of a teaspoon of olive oil and
five drops of chlorodyne, until recovery.
My hens lay eggs with very pale yolks.
Is this caused by the health of the birds or
diet deficiency?-— 422.
Pale egg-yolks are caused by lack of green
feed, feeding of excess meat or meatmeal, or
when wheat and wheat by-products only are
fed. Feeding of ample supplies of finely
chaffed succulent greenstuff, combined with
yellow or red maize, with 10 per cent, of
meatmeal in the mash, will produce rich-
colored egg-yolks.
I am working up an interest in the
extraction of essential oil from melaleuca.
What are the most suitable districts in
A r ./S'.IF. for the industry and the most suit-
able varieties for extraction purposes? Also,
cost of suitable plant, and probable weekly
output of a two-man show ? —389.
Melaleuca alternifolia; it ocurs abundantly
in the Coraki district. But the principal
areas of this species are now controlled by a
co., Australian Essential Oils, Ltd., Dalton
House, 115 Pitt-street, Sydney, which is en-
gaged in the distillation and marketing of
the oil. In the circumstances very little
information of the sort required can be fur-
nished. Regarding the properties and uses of
the oil, write to the Technological Museum,
Sydney, for a copy of Bulletin No. 14, “Aus-
tralian Tea-trees of Economic Value.”
Do most of the veterinary-science students
at Sydney Uni. secure positions after com-
pleting their course? What are the pros-
pects in this profession? —49S.
Prof. J. Douglas Stewart, Dean of the
Faculty of Veterinary Science, states:
“Hitherto our students have been placed
before they graduated. Of the 12 who passed
last December all have gained lucrative em-
ployment but two. It is expected that these
two will be well placed before the end of
the month, and as there will then remain
three positions for which we have no can-
didates, it will be seen that the present
supply of qualified veterinarians is not suffi-
cient to meet the demand. As a future pro-
fession, the prospects of veterinary science
are undoubtedly bright, especially for in-
telligent youths who are fond of animals.”
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Wandi”: A device I have seen in use
for weaning a big calf without separating
it from its mother is a headstall with a few
nails through the strap that goes over the
nose, the points of the nails standing up.
It doesn’t inconvenience the calf, except that
the cow soon objects to it.
“Gumblegubbin”: The advantage of a
clean milking-yard is often lessened by dirty
approaches, such as a boggy gully or creek.
A day or two spent in making good fords
pays in the saving of time and the un-
pleasantness of milking cows with wet and
muddy underparts. A couple of loads oi
sandstone usually suffices, but where banks
are steep a bush culvert, made with a few
logs and slabs, is the best. It doesn’t take
long to make and is a better job than the
corduroy.
“Tanta-Tyga” : A new spade makes a lot
of hard work. Put the implement on an
anvil and beat the front edge down to sharp-
ness ; by this means the whole of the metal
is saved for use. whereas if the spade is put
on the grindstone or cut down with a file,
there is waste of material. A solid-back
scythe-blade may be sharpened in the same
way.
“W. 0.”: A .410 shotgun is a useful
weapon where parrots or crows cause damage.
If the barrel gets too dirty for the ordinary
pull-through to clean, a piece of wire, thin
and pliable, but strong, about two and a
half times the length of the barrel, will fix
it. Make a loop in the centre, to which fasten
a piece of cloth which will be a moderately
tight fit inside the barrel. Put one end of
wire through, then fasten it to a nail or
put your foot on it. Draw barrel back and
forward, and with kerosene and then oil on
the cloth (and plenty of elbow grease) the
dirtiest barrel can be made as clean as a
new pin.
“Yarri”: Many a wallaby can be caught
in the scrub by setting a thin wire with a
running noose on its track, under a low
limb or bough. Scrub wallabies going to
feed on water invariably follow a beaten
track. But hide the snare as much as
possible, or paint it a dark grey to resemble
a twig or vine.
“TY1”: “Alcibiades” (B. 8/6/’32) says
the back of the knife should point towards
the lamb’s belly when tailing. Wrong, as
the cut leaves the skin a half-inch up from
the bone and gristle of the tail; result, a
wound that takes a long while to heal. The
knife should be held with the back sloping
towards the operator. In cuts thus made
the skin is forced upward and the stump
is left with a good flap of skin round the
bone.
“TY1”: A common mistake in bowing
rabbit skins is to have each side of the bow
down the sides of the skins. Bow them so
that each s'de of the bow is down backbone
and belly lines.
“Beady”: When filling in rabbit burrows
take a few pumpkin and melon seeds with
you and scatter them about the filled-in
burrow. I experimented last spring and as
a result have a winter’s supply of pumpkins
and pie-melons on hand.
“Odd Job”: Don’t waste water that could
be turned to good use. Make an open V-
shaped cement drain, with a receivei’, near
the kitchen door and run the waste house
water there by pipe or bucket. Further on
let the drain be eax-th with a stone-lined
bottom, which will absorb odors, and let the
water percolate into the gai’den. At the
dead end plant a fig-tree. By judicious side
drains you can iri'igate a small gai-den.
“Ancyra”: Westralian Premier Mitchell,
opening a “Commercial Rabbit-wool” show
in Perth the other day, gave the nascent in-
dustry what must be quite the best official
boost it has received to date. One pound of
Angora wool, he said, was worth 24 times
as much as one pound of sheep’s wool, and
the rabbit produced as much wool in a year
as thi’ee sheep. Further, the demand for the
pi-oduct was unlimited and there was no
danger of supply catching up with it. Mitchell
has a closer acquaintance with the pastoral
industi’y than most bankers, but the figures
are incredible. If one Angora rabbit can
be made as valuable as a wool pi-oducer as
72 sheep, the Turkish bunny has been a long
time coming into his own.
“Valerin”: Half a century’s expei’ience as
manager and owner has taught me not to
dogmatise on sheep management; but I
have to confess I have never known of
“Alcibiades’s” (B. 8/6/’32) “vital point” of
yarding the sheep overnight. As for mus-
tering in small mobs it is palpably absurd.
Anyway, what is the advantage of mothering
before marking? After is the time. As for
disturbing sheep by having a look at them
next morning, a careful man need not worry
about that aspect. I have saved many a
lamb by this small attention.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection 'and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are, not admissible.
Wants.
Married man (28), Sydney, indoor advertising
exp. with Sydney daily newspapers, seeks position,
knowledge book-keeping and general office work. —603.
Lad (15), N.S.W., tall, strong, good milker, wants
work on farm.—s 37.
Refined young lady, Q’land, requires position. Will
assist household duties, fond of children. Refs.
—579.
Lady (28), Tas., cultured, healthy, can drive car,
competent housekeeper, seeks engagement town or
country, any State. —508.
Woolclasser, N.S.W., knowledge experting, requires
sheds, July-August; will overhaul machinery.—sBs.
Typist, Sydney, senior, with telephone switch-
board exp., wants position, city or eastern suburbs.
—602.
To buy Medici or other color prints suitable for
schools.—sBB.
To buy second-hand copy of “Son of Woman,” by
Middleton Murray, and “Portrait of the Artist
as a Young Man,” by James Joyce.—6o4.
To buy life photographs of the platypus, the
echidna and other- animals, birds, etc. —538.
To buy a vest-pocket camera with big aperture
lens. — : 551.
Wordy of verse “The Victorious Bunny.”—so2.
AVords of “On Board the Nancee Bell,” “Nine
Miles. from Gundagai” and “The Old Bark Hut.”
—485.
AVords and music of old song “Hurrah! Hurrah!
Diana’s to be Married!”—4Bl.
Information Sought.
(1) What tvould be the cost of hiring an
aeroplane in August to carry a lady pas-
senger from Broken Ilill to Winton (Q.)?
(2) How much luggage would she be allotved
to can'y without extra cost? —312.
(1) Q.A.N.T.A.S., Brisbane, quotes £l2O.
(2) Two suitcases not more than 26in.
long and weighing approximately 301 b. each.
A simple method for ascertaining the
moisture in transformer oil?-— 486.
Draw a sample v of oil from the bottom
of the transformer. (Water being heavier
than oil collects at the bottom.) In
the sample thus taken place powdered
anhydrous copper sulphate. If moisture is
present, the salt will be dissolved, produc-
ing a blue color that will be diffused through
the oil. Since enough copper sulphate must
be added to ensure a saturated solution, the
intensity of the blue tint Avill be a measure
of the amount of moisture present. As small
percentages of moisture have an adverse
affect on the insulating properties of oil,
the lightest shade of blue indicates that the
oil should be dried by filtering.
(1) When was Kanaka labor last used in
the Queensland sugar fields? (2) When did
the N.S.W. and Queensland sugar mills first
employ resident chemists at their mills to
test the sugar contents of the juice? Had
they any means of testing before the employ-
ment of resident chemists? —208.
(1) The Kanakas were practically all re-
patriated in 1907. (2) The C. S. R. Co.
began to keep resident chemists at their
N.S.W. mills in 1882, and at their Queens-
land mills in 1884. At that time their juice-
testing Was confined to factory control. In
1899, for the first time, their work was ex-
tended to include tests of cane juice for the
purpose of valuing purchased cane accord-
ing to its quality. The C. S. R* Co. was a
pioneer in such matters, and _ other factory
owners were doubtless later in introducing
resident chemists. Before that rough tests
were commonly done with the Baume hydro-
meter. Though much less accurate than the
more modern methods, these Baume tests
were very valuable in their day.
Certain high-pitched sounds, such as
scratching a piece of tin with the finger-
nail, appear to jar some people’s nerves.
What is the cause of this, and why does
such a sound affect children more than
adults? —376.
No satisfactory explanation is available,
save that such sounds unduly stimulate
ultra-sensitive nerve-endings.
(1) Can I charge 6-volt batteries off a
110 -volt 8-amp. dynamo? (2) I have a
resistance for reducing the voltage; does this
reduce the current? (3) Can I charge more
than one battery? (4) Should batteries be
connected up in series or in parallel? (5)
What current tvould each, battery get con-
nected (a) in series, (b) in parallel? (6)
Booli on accumulator-charging? —3o9.
(1) Yes, provided their total voltage does
not exceed about 90. (2) Yes.. The current
falls as the voltage. (3) Yes; any number
up to 15 6-volt batteries, but the machine
will have to deliver the same current whether
one battery or 15 batteries are being charged.
(4) In series only. (5) Depends upon the
uumber of batteries being charged, on their
internal resistance and on the voltage de-
livered by the machine. (6) “Accumulator
Charging, Maintenance and Repair,” by W.
S. Ibbetson: 6s. 3d.; Angus and Robertson.
Who was the greatest of English Parlia-
mentary orators ? —413.
Probably the younger Pitt, of whom a
contemporary of an age that enabled him to
compare his gifts with those of earlier and
later statesmen wrote that he was, as a
speaker, “above Burke, above Windham,
above Sheridan and not below Fox. In
power of sarcasm he was probably not sur-
passed by any speaker, ancient or modern.
He could with ease present to his audience
a clear, popular and comprehensive view of
the most extensive and complicated subject.
He was the only Parliamentarian who could
open a budget without, notes.”
(1) What causes waterspouts? (2) What
height do they generally reach? (3) What
aistance do they travel and at what speed?
(4) Do they occur frequently in Australian
waters? —342. .
(1) A waterspout consists of a central
core or funnel in which the pressure is very
low, and around and up which the air
revolves and ascends at tremendous speed.
The funnel extends downward from the
clouds, and, where it meets the sea, the
water is violently disturbed and in the centre
is actually drawn up to some distance.
Tornadoes and waterspouts, when they
occur, are associated with a wide area or
trough of low-pressure and with warm, un-
settled, thundery weather. (2) The dark
funnel or core reaches up to cloud height,
which may be up to 3060 ft. or 4000 ft. (3)
Up to 50 miles at a speed from 10 to 50
m.p.h. (4) Only occasionally. The majority
of those reported have been off the east
coast.
(1) What is the flash-point of xiitro-cellu-
lose lacquers? (2) How ascertained? —84.
(1) Ranges from 40deg. to 70deg. F. (2)
By testing the material in the Cleveland
closed cup.
(1) In a reply (B. 8/6/’32) the odds
against an event are stated as “sixteen
billion billion to one.” How many noughts in
this figure? (2) How does 635,013,881,095 in
the same reply read in words? —466.
(1) 24. (2) Six hundred and thirty-five
thousand and thirteen million, eight hundred
and eighty-one thousand and ninety-five.
Where in the Pacific are the Phoenix
Islands? Who owns them and are they of
any economic importance? What are their
chief products? —46s.
The group comprises about a dozen small
islands, with a total land area of about 19
square miles, lying 800 miles due north of
Samoa. Although formally annexed by Great
Britain they are of little economic import-
ance. All the islands, except two, are leased
to the Samoa Shipping and Trading Co.,
which maintain 'upon them a European over-
seer and a small gang of native laborers. The
guano is all worked out and copra is the
only product.
(1) Did European navigators visit Maori-
land before Tasman? (2) Who discovered
Norfolk Island and was it inhabited at the
time of its discovery? (3) Who discovered
Lord llowe Island? —469.
(1) It is possible that Maoriland was
sighted by Portuguese or Spanish navigators
at an early date; but there is nothing to
prove that any part of it had ever been seen
by a European navigator before Tasman’s
voyage of 1642. (2) The island was dis-
covered by Captain Cook on October 10,
1774, and named by him “in honor of the
noble family of Howard.” It was unin-
habited ; Cook and his men were probably the
first to land on it. (3) Lieut. Henry Lidg-
bird Ball, commander of H.M. tender Supply
on February 17, 1788, during a passage from
Port Jackson to Norfolk Island.
(1) What is a fair “B” battery life when
used on a three-valve receiver employing
three 45-volt batteries? (2) What is the
correct “C” battery voltage to use? (3)
There arc three aerial terminals on the set;
what are they for? —429.
(1) Depends upon many things, princi-
pally upon the capacity of the battery, the
type of valves and the grid bias voltage.
Some valves take much more battery cur-
rent than others. Six to nine months would
be a fair average. (2) The bias voltage
varies with the type of valve used. The
first L.F. valve usually requires a bias of
from 44 to 9 volts, but the bias of the last
valve may be much higher. Use as much bias
as possible, consistent with good quality
and volume. By so doing the “B” battery
life is increased. (3) Probably for adapting
the set to aerials of different lengths and
characteristics.
How to apply for provisional and full
letters patent in India, M.L.. 8. Africa; costs
and duration of rights? —4o6.
Application must be made in each country
on the prescribed form; a resident patent
agent must be appointed in each country to
conduct proceedings on your behalf before
the patent office; specification and drawings
in duplicate must accompany each applica-
tion. together with' copy for agent. Provi-
sional term in M.L. and South Africa is
nine months. Provisional protection is not
obtainable in India. Full patent term is 16
years in each country. Approximate fees are:
M. provisional £5 55., full £lB to £22:
S. Africa, provisional £8 Bs., full £25 to
£2B; India, full £23 to £26; all plus ex-
change.
(1) What amount annually is contributed
by N.S.W. motorists towards the cost of
main roads in the State? (2) Do owners of
horse-drawn vehicles share in the cost? —34o.
(1) The proceeds from motor taxation in
N. in 1931 were £1,218,002. Ninety-five
p.c. of this money is paid to the Main Roads
Board for use on main roads. An official
analysis shows that during the five years
to June 30, 1930, the motorists of the State
contributed, including loans for which motor
taxation has been hypothecated, £10,675,000
(or 60.06 p.c. of the total) for main roads,
in addition to the Federal petrol tax of 24d.
per gallon, repaid by the Commonwealth to
the State. (2) No.
I live in the hush. llow can I make my
own drills for drilling glass? How is the
operation carried out? —24B.
Take any good piece of steel wire, file
to the shape of a drill, hold in a flame till
it is at dull-red heat, then quench in metallic
mercury. This should bore through glass
as easily as through soft metal. In use,
lubricate with oil of turpentine in which
some camphor has been dissolved. When the
point, of the drill has touched the other side
put the glass in water several inches deep,
and proceed with the drilling very slowly
If not possible to do this, reverse the work
by turning tlie glass over and drilling very
carefully from the opposite side. In making
the drill, be sure not to make the point and
cutting edges too acute ; the drill cuts more
slowly hut more .safely when point and cut
ting edges are at a low angle.
Can you furnish particulars regarding a
rare marsupial (Calopyrmnus campestris)
rediscovered last March on the Diamantinas
—343.
Calopyrmnus campestris, a species of rat
kangaroo, was considered to be practically
extinct until recently, when H. H. Finlay-
son, of Adelaide, collected specimens on the
Diamantina. This small marsupial is known
as the plain rat kangaroo' or “Oolacunta.’
Its range probably extends into the far
south-western border of Queensland. Mr.
Finlayson, c/o South Aus. Museum, Adel-
aide, could give additional details if required.
(1) Percentage of members of trade
unions unemployed in each State at March
31 f (2) Basic weekly wage rates (metro-
politan) fixed by State industrial tribunals?
(3) Federal basic weekly tcage in each, of
the capital cities? —317.
(1) N.S.W., 31.8 p.c.; Vie., 20 p.c.;
Queensland, 18.2 p.c.; S.A., 33.1 p.c.; W.A.,
28.6 p.c.; Tas., 27.3 p.c. (2) N.S.W.:
Males, £4 2s. 6d: females, £2 4s. 6d. Vic.
follows Federal rates to a large extent.
Queensland: Males, £3 145.; females, £1 19s.
S.A., £3 3s. and £1 11s. 6d. W.A., £3 12s.
and £1 18s. lid. Tas., none declared, but,
like Vie., follows Federal rates to a large
extent. (3) Sydney, £3 Bs. lOd.; Melbourne,
£3 3s. lid.; Brisbane, £2 18s. 6d.; Adelaide,
£2 IXs. lid.; Perth, £3 Is. Bd.; Hobart, £3
ss. 3d.
/ have a number of Australian 1 Id.
“Swan” (W.A. Centenary) and 6 d. Kings-
ford Smith stamps. I understand that in
both these issues varieties exist which are
comparatively rare. (1) How inay they be
distinguished? (2) What are they worth?
—5lO.
(1) A distinct re-entry occurs on plate 2
of tlie lid. Swan. The “T” of Australia is
double-lined and a tliin red line funs parallel
to the front of the swan’s neck. In the 6d.
Kingsford Smith a re-entry occurs on the
45th stamp. The . “T” of Australia, “FO”
of Kingsford and the “LD” of World ’are
double. (2) Orlo-Smith’s catalogue prices
the l|d. re-entry at 10s. unused, and 7s. 6d.
used; and the Od. re-entry at 10s. both
unused and used.
'Number of industrial disputes, workers in-
volved, and working days lost during 1930 in
(1) Australia, (2) United Kingdom, (3)
U.S.A., (4) Germany, and (5) Sweden ?■—•
143.
(1) Disputes, 183: workers involved,
54.222; days lost, 1,511,241. (2) Disputes,
422: workers involved, 308,000; days lost.
4,400.000. (3) 653: 158,114; 2,730,368.
(4) 366; 224,983: 3,935,977. (5) 261;
20,751; 1,021.000.
(1) Can you .suggest any special wire-nct-
ting for fish Haps to withstand the action of
salt water? (2) If not can I get a heavier
gauge than usual? (3) Any good painting
or dipping the xietting in anything to pre-
serve it? —332.
(1) and (2) Cannot suggest any netting
that will withstand the action of salt water,
but 14-gauge is specially manufactured by
Lysaghts, 17-19 Bridge-street, Sydney, for
the making of fishtraps. With care, such as
hosing down with fresh water on special
occasions, these traps should last a long
time. (3) To preserve wire-netting it should
be thoroughly dressed with boiling coal-tar.
Method of preserving maiden-hair fern and
bracken in N. S. Wales to facilitate mar-
keting ? —496.
They are usually tied in bundles of about
50, tlie fronds being placed on top of each
other. They are then left under cover, still
in bundles, until thoroughly dry, when they
are packed in crates holding 50,000 fern's
or so. Ferns can be dyed by using a solu-
tion of an aniline color dissolved in methy-
lated spirits, to which shellac is often added.
Palms could be treated similarly.
(1) Number of females in Australia over
16 years of age, and number over 16 and
under 60? (2) Number of married women
in Australia? (3) Number of married women
under 60? (4) Estimated number of homes?
275.
(1) Approximately 2,200,000 over 16;
1,900.000 over 16 and under 60. (2)
1.200.000. (3) 1,080.000. (4) 1,400.000. In
addition to the married women mentioned in
reply to the second question there were
approximately 200,000 widows. In ail cases
the figures refer to December 31, 1931.
Tell me hoiv to French-polish a tabletop.
—272.
It is difficult for an amateur, and most
laborious work. See that wood is clean and
smooth, and stain it any color which may
be required. If it is of an open grain or
shows small crackles, rub well with fine
plaster of Paris in a wet state, and rub
off .surplus before it dries. When quite dry
rub well with raw linseed oil, and wipe off
cleanly and well. Make up a solution of
shellac in metli. spirit, about 4oz. to the
pint, and when dissolved, either by heat or
by standing a day or two, commence polish-
ing with a rubber made of cottonwool
wrapped in three or four thicknesses of
linen. Dip rubber in polish, and begin on
wood, working up and down in the same
direction. After each application of polish
let. it dry thoroughly, then rub with fine
glass paper to get another smooth surface.
Tear off soiled outer-linen rag from rubber,
and polish again. This process is repeated
until the desired brilliance and surface are
obtained, A few drops of linseed oil after
the glasspaper has been applied will make
the work go more smoothly, but do not allow
it to become oily.
Is bank gravel a suitable coarse aggregate
in making good concrete? —506.
Yes; it can be used with satisfactory, re-
sults provided it contains no deleterious
matter. It. should be remembered that
gravel from bank or pit contains a varying
quantity of sand, and therefore cannot be
used as though it were all coarse aggregate.
The only safe way of treating such material
is to screen or sieve it on -{in. mesh; the
sand will pass through and the coarser
material will be retained on the screen. The
two materials can afterwards be mixed in
the pi’oper proportions.
Brief Answers.
I P.: (1) No reliable list exists here.
W rite to the Paymaster-General, Supreme Court Pay
Office, London. (2) There are no files of the paper'
in any of the Sydney libraries... .W.R.H.: Submit
full particulars to the Customs Dept., Circular Quay,
Sydney... .8.D.J.: 1,752,000 sals, of Australian wine
and 33,000. gals, of foreign were consumed in N.S.W.
in 1929-30. This was .71 gal. Australian and 0. t
gal. foreign per inhabitant. Wine consumption in
recent years has' increased by about 25 p.c. on 1911
figures... .11. P.: (1) Depends entirely upon the
nature of the work. (2) It is better to deal with
one at a time. (3) By registering it at the
Copyright Office, Commonwealth Bank Chambers,
Martin-place, Sydney.... J.P.W.: Out of print. Copies
can be occasionally picked up at from ss. to 10s.
. ...P.S.: Let us know the brand of axe and we
will make inquiries... .J.C.: If you are working
under a N.S.W. State award, apply to Dept, of
Labor and Industry, Sydney; if under a Federal
award, to the Deputy Registrar, Federal Arbitration
Court, Sydney.... G.C.M.: Write K. Pribil, Box
368655, G.P.0., Sydney... .E.J.N.: Write Lecturer-
in-Charge, Tanning School, Bourke-street, Waterloo,
Sydney... .L.NcP.: A dressing of lime and fine wood
ashes may get rid of tlie moss, but the primary
cause is insufficient drainage.. . .E.J.: 32,231 West-
raliacis enlisted for the Great War (188.43 per
1000 of mean male population) ; 23,670 returned. .. .
A.D.W.: From Thomas A. Edison, Ltd., 364 Keiit-
street, Sydney, £5 10s H.T.: The aboriginal
name for the islet occupied by Fort Denison, Port
Jackson (N.S.W.), is Mattawunga. . . .11.A.J.: A
five per cent, solution of sodium salicylate in water
can be used instead of potassium salicylate....
P.J.C.: Your ticket did not draw a prize... .B.O.:
Communicate with the District Naval Officer, Edward-
street, Brisbane, from whom full particulars call
be obtained J.K.: Most forms are treated now by
injection. The method is generally painless and
satisfactory. Other remedies are generally merely
palliative... .T.G.: The major elements of food are
proteins, carbohydrates and fats, so it is hard to
differentiate for you. The predominating element
in the ones you ask about are: (1) Proteins; (2)
carbohydrates; (3) fats; (4) proteins; (5) (6)
and (7) carbohydrates; (8) proteins and fats. .. .
K.0.R.: The medical word for dandruff is seborrhoea.
.. . .J.W.: Write Griffith, Ilassel and Griffith, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack streets, Sydney... .AV.A.H.:
Common salt has no manorial value. It is occa-
sionally used on such crops as mangels and asparagus,
but its use is not advocated... .F.G.C.: Get in touch
with N. D. Lackie, Superintendent, Viticultural
Nursery, Griffith (N.S.W.) W.H.C.S.: Write S. A.
Parker, 219 George-street, Sydney.... R.D. : Highest
temperature recorded in Perth during 35 years,
108 degrees F. ; lowest, 34 degrees; mean, 64.2
degrees... .E.R.1.: The book has no value... .S.V.F.:
“Engineering of Power Plants,’’ by Fernold and
Orrok (445.), and “Power Plant Testing,” by Moyer
(445.), obtainable from Tait Book Co., 39 Queen-
street, Melbourne... .R.C.8.: Divorce cannot be
obtained in Judge’s chambers unless exceptional
circumstances warrant hearing in camera. “Undue
familiarity,’’ unless it constitutes adultery, is not a
sufficient ground for divorce... .R.S.T.: The validity
of a contract is decided by the law of the place
where it is made. Your contract, if made in Vic.,
may be sued on in that State... .W.G.: “Australian
Stamp Monthly,” Box 1657 N, G.P.0., Melbourne, 6d.
. ...D.T.: Write P. Neville Barnett, hon. sec., Aus-
tralian Ex Libris Society, Los Angeles, Challis-
avenue, Turramurra,... J.W.K.: Federal “Hansard”
is obtainable from the Federal Govt. Printer, Can-
berra ; N.S.W. “Hansard” from N.S.W. Govt. Printer,
Sydney... .J.C.: None. The Act was amended three
years ago... .D.A.: Information is not available in
Sydney H.F.: N.S.W. Real Property Act provides
that when any land under its provisions is to be
leased or demised for any term exceeding three years,
a memorandum of lease must be executed. No
provision is made for lesser terms. Forms supplied
by trustee and other cos. should be adequate....
M. : W.A. exported overseas £175,000 worth
of pearls and shell in 1930-31... .E.C.: (1) (2)
and (3) Insanity is not a ground for divorce in all
the States of the Commonwealth. In Queensland
and M.L. it is. In M.L. the provision is “being
of unsound mind continuously for seven years.”
U.S.A. practice varies; some States have it, others
(including California) not. Residence is required;
in some a year, in others a few months. (4) Im-
possible to Say; depends on the case. (5) If
granted a divorce recognised by the local Court,
he could marry in any Australian State....
R. : The executors are bound to answer to
the beneficiaries for their acts but not to outside
inquirers. To bring the matter before a Court of
Equity would involve expense and the executors
may show good cause for their delay... .L.M.F.:
(1) He is Australian-born. (2) R.C W.P.:
Write Director, Technological Museum, Harris-street,
Sydney, for pamphlet, price Is M.B.AV.: (1) and
(2) Depends entirely upon the standing orders. In
the absence of any rule debarring him from voting
he could exercise his vote. (3) The fact has no
bearing on the secretary’s position. .. .R.T.Q.: In
the winter months in the Southern Hemisphere the
moon is always far south about the time of full
m00n.... J.C*.: England accepted offers of naval
volunteer contingents from Australia, on the out-
break of the Chinese Boxer' rebellion in 1900.
N. furnished 260, Vic. 200 of all ranks and
S. sent her gunboat Protector... .W.H.: String-
halt is caused by some deficiency in the pastures on-'
which the horses are grazed, and may be overcome
by a change of pasture... .G.F.D.: The 1914 Mel-
bourne Cup was won by Kingsburgh, with St.
Alwynton second and Moonbria third. Time, 3min.
26see T.P.: “How to Make Good Pictures” (45.),
obtainable from any photographic dealer, should
suit your purposes.... E.H.C.: The goods are subject
to a duty of 50 p.c. (British preferential) and 65
p.c. (general tariff). In addition a special duty of
50 p.c. of the duty calculated at those rates is
also payable, plus 10 p.c. primage duty and
6 p.c. sales tax. In cases of bequests from deceased
relatives the department takes a lenient view as to
valuation S.M.: J. F. Hogan’s “The Gladstone.
Colony.” There is a small article on the scheme
in “The Australian Encyclopedia,” vol. 1, page 554.
• E.P.: (1) The only full and accurate account
of his life is contained in Ida Lee’s “Commodore
Sir John Hayes” (1912). (2) l'es, he kept full
journals of his voyages of 1793-94 and intended to
publish them, but could not obtain financial support.
They have since been lost. According to one account
they were captured by a French warship and taken
to Paris, but no trace of them has been found there.
A.W.: Kent-street, Sydney, is named after
Edward, Duke of Kent, a son of George 111
H.A.: Get in touch with Hennningway and Robertson.
16 Barrack-street, Sydney T. 8.: Consult the
“Commonwealth Official Year Book” at the nearest
public library G.R.: (1) “Johnston’s Pianoforte
Tutor,” published by Allan’s. (2) MacFarren’s
“Harmony and Counterpoint.” (3) Gerald Dillon’s
“Why Editors Regret” and the “Aust. and N.Z.
Writers’ and Artists’ Year-Book,” each 2s. 6d.,
Angus and Robertson (Many others mailed.)


Dope
BY
GRANTLEY LORRENS.
Synopsis: Ernest William Johns,
M.A. Oxon., cocaine addict and desti-
tute, saves Etty Smith from a
hal{-breed's knife in a Sydney water-
front “dive.” Aboard the Surf
Queen, he accepts her father’s offer
of a steady job and a chance to regain
his health. Etty helps him fight his
cravings, and after a few weeks h-e
has to go to her for dope rations less
frequently; as she tends Mm Johns
realises that she, who is far short of
his ideal, loves him. Captain Smith,
her father, realises it, too; he sacks
the drunken mate for assaulting Johns,
whom he makes acting first mate,.
When Varley, one-time medical stu-
dent, now the cook, confesses he
loves Etty, Johns agrees it is only
right to tell her he, Johns, does not
love her; but keeps putting this of}.'
At Lola-Panga Fay Campbell, on
a cruise in her father’s steam yacht,
Arethusa, visits Etty—and Johns
meets his ideal. Campbell is astounded
when Johns refuses his offer of assist-
ance. That night, inspired by Varley,
Johns deserts, stowing away in the
Arethusa’s lifeboat. The yacht sails.
Planning the great book he hopes to
write helps Johns through the follow-
ing exhausting hours. He hears Fay
discuss him, and she scarcely conceals
her interest in him from her father.
Racked by his cravings, Johns sneaks
ashore at Zandavar, and manages to
give a letter of credit to Varley's
friend, ■ Wooden Charlie, half-caste
owner of a drinking-hell. Charlie gives
dope and, later, a job to Johns.
BOOK II—SHIPS THAT PASS.
Chapter V.
JOHNS at first, alert and optimistic after
his cocaine, had been all for getting a
passage to England in the first forecastle
that offered. But Wooden Charlie, with the
unassailable logic of the Orient, had finafiy
brought him to see that the path to salva-
tion lay in Zandavar. He must stay with
Wooden Charlie, get himself rid, once and
for all, of his craving, and rehabilitate him-
self. Then, with the money he had saved,
and, if necessary, assistance from Wooden
Charlie, he could travel to England as a
passenger, and take with him the many
manuscripts that he would surely have
written by then. For Wooden Charlie took
pains to point out to him that at least a
year and a half would be necessary to make
sure that the craving was finally cured. By
that time he would have quite a creditable
balance in the bank, for the ten shillings a
week was not to be the total of 1 his salary.
The other two pounds, however, his em-
ployer was to pay into an account for him,
so that there would be no opportunity to
waste the money. And Johns, realising that
some protection of that sort was necessary,
for the time being at least, had accepted
gratefully.
*As the warming fumes of the cocktail
seeped through his veins, Johns eyed the
long bar and the adjacent lounge compla-
cently. It was good to be back in the era
of prosperity; to know that, for the first
time in more than three years, he could
look forward to the future confidently. His
future was assured at last. It was a pleasant
thought.
He ordered a second Manhattan.
A few minutes later, as he walked confi-
dently across the lounge to greet Fay and
her father, he looked as he felt—very neat
and correct in his tussore silk; a man whose
future was assured. And with his assurance
the years had slipped away from him, so
that George Campbell, as he stared in
puzzlement at the face smiling its greeting,
was for the moment at sea.
“You’re not that chap Johns, are you?” he
asked uncertainly. He did not look at his
daughter. If he had, her eyes would have
given him the answer. They were fixed on
Johns, and the light in them was one that
she was scarcely quick enough to veil as
Johns glanced at her before he answered
her father’s query.
“That’s right, Mr. Campbell. Strange
that I should run into you again so soon.
The world’s a small place, isn’t it? I saw
the Arethusa in port to-day when we came
in, but I hardly expected to run into you
my first night ashore.”
“But, dammit man, you look ten years
younger!”
George Campbell was still half-incredu-
lous. It was Johns, and yet it was not
Johns. The day had been hot—damnably
steamy; just the weather he loathed most—
and he was in no mood for puzzles.
Johns laughed. “Perhaps it is because I
am feeling particularly happy to-night,” he
suggested; but his eyes were on the girl,
although the words were addressed to her
father.
Old Campbell nodded. “Ah, that must be
it.” Now that the riddle had explained
itself he became genial again. “Glad to get
back to civilisation, eh? Not enough luxu-
ries on that little windjammer.”
“It was not luxuries that I was missing,
Mr. Campbell,” Johns corrected him; but
again his eyes were on the daughter. “Not
luxuries, sir. Let us say a necessity, rather.”
But George Campbell had lost interest in
the subject. It was nearly dinner-time. He
nodded vaguely.
“Well, well. They serve quite a decent
meal here.”
Johns seized the opening he had been
seeking. “I should be very glad if you and
Miss Campbell would dine with me
to-night,” he suggested. “And perhaps a
drive afterwards. Out to Fairy Point—the
sea breeze”
The cocktail that they drank while Fay
was taking off her hat stimulated the older
man’s cerebration. “Those obligations you
told me about, or didn’t tell me about,
rather—you seem to have honored them
pretty quickly?”
It was Johns’s third drink, and the heady
liqueurs were w r arming his veins. “They
were obligations that cannot be wiped out
—ever, Mr. Campbell. One can repay
money or physical help, but not psycholo-
gical support. I owe Captain Smith and
his daughter an imponderable debt—of
gratitude.” The Surf Queen lay in the past;
it did no harm to speak of her, or her com-
plement, as things of the past also. “They
were kind to me when I needed kindness
most. They took me for a health trip
when I needed it very badly.”
“Not t.b.?” George Campbell had a com-
plex. He had spent the last few years of
his life avoiding sickness in any shape or
form. Invalids scared him stiff. After fifty-
odd years of perfect health, he had suddenly
turned his mind towards the thousand ills
that he had not had, and he felt himself to
be due at any moment to make up for lost
time.
Johns laughed softly. “No, not t.b. It
was a sickness of the soul rather than the
body.”
Campbell nodded uncomprehendingly.
“Better now, is it?”
Fay had just re-entered the lounge, and
Johns’s eyes were on her. “Yes!” His
voice had a resonance that was unusual.
“Yes, I am better now. I’m almost cured.”
(“Fool!” his conscience snarled at him.
“Good-forsaken fool! You know it’s only
the cocktails. You’ll be back in hell again
to-morrow!”) “Yes,” he repeated earnestly.
“Yes, I’m quite cured.”
As they moved towards Fay, her father
said:
“It’s a mighty funny thing, isn’t it? I
mean, what you said about the world being
small. Fancy running across you again, and
so soon!”
“It was by the sheerest chance that the
other boat called in at Lola-Panga.” Johns
felt himself to s be near the edge of a pre-
cipice. It would be better to give an ex-
planation unasked. “I think that it must
have been your invitation that unsettled
me. After the Arethusa had left, I was
sorry I had not gone with you. And then,
when the Ailema drifted in the very next
morning, I could not resist the temptation,
and I came away on her.”
“H’m, yes.” Campbell nodded his agree-
ment. “Still, all life is strange, you know.
Look at me and Fay. Who’d have thought
a year ago that we’d have been here to-
night?” He shrugged his inability to wrestle
with the laws of Fate. “Lucky you didn’t
get here to-morrow instead of to-day,” he
added. “We are sailing again at eight
to-morrow evening.”
They moved towards the dining-room, the
older man, who found his romance in
food, a pace or two ahead. And it was he
who monopolised the conversation during
the meal. The tasty food stimulated him as
alcohol might have done another man, and
Johns was quite content to listen, nodding
occasionally, and here and there interspers-
ing a remark. But his gaze scarcely left the
face of the girl, save when she chanced to
look at him.
His feast was of the eyes and the mind.
It was imperative, he knew, to store up
memories against the days to come. Memo-
ries of hair that flashed with a turn of the
head into new-minted bronze, and again,
where the relative shadows lay, toned down
to the mellow tint of autumn leaves. Memo-
ries of a white neck that rose, pillar-like,
from smooth shoulders, and of eyes whose
blue irises ringed dark pools of mystery,
their violet shadows at times almost jet
black.
When at length the older man leaned
back replete, sighing his satisfaction and
his lack of appetite, Johns was still at his
feast of beauty, but
realising the pangs of
a hunger that had
been gnawing for
years.
“Well, that was
good!” George Camp-
bell nodded vigor-
ously. “I enjoyed
your dinner, young
fellow, thank you,
But I don’t fancy the
idea of a probably
bumpy road, and
from what I’ve seen
of them a certainly
rackety car, reputedly
under control of some damn half-caste jehu.
No, thank you! I like peace after my
meals.”
“Well, father dear, you find yourself a
nice comfy chair in a nice quiet corner”—
Fay’s eyes were twinkling at Johns as she
spoke; they brought him into the conspiracy
of filial teasing—“and have a good snooze.
And then, when you’re ready, sneak off to
bed. It’s your last night ashore for a fort-
night, so you’d better make the most of it.”
Her father shook his head at Johns in
mock despair. “That’s how I’m bossed,”
he complained. “Can you beat it?” Fay
rose, and leaned over to pat her father’s
head. “No, darling,” she agreed. “It can’t
be beat! That’s why we are going to beat
it—to Fairy Point. I’ll see you in the
morning.” She laid her hand on Johns’s
arm. “The moon will be rising in less than
half an hour,” she told him, half-jokingly,
“and I’m sure that that’s when the fairies
all come out to romp at their Point!”
Chapter VI.
The road to Fairy Point lay along the
foreshore, a thin ribbon of white which
uncoiled snakily as the glare of the head-
lights searched out its curves. At times it
plunged desperately into the thick jungle in
a vain effort to evade the eagle eyes of the
car, and then, in a forlorn hope, rushed
madly towards the ocean, until, at the last
moment, just when it seemed it must leap
into the quiet sea, it would veer suddenly
parallel ■ with the dimly seen shingle as
though weary of the game of hide and
seek. Then the pursuit would be on again,
until it seemed to the fascinated eyes of
the girl that they had turned and twisted
so much that they could never hope to find
their way back again.
The last mile of the journey was through
dense jungle, and the car seemed to be run-
ning between solid embankments. Every
now and again even the sight of the stars
would be cut off as the road was swallowed
in a tunnel where the foliage had grown
across, in one part so low that the leaves
swept the car’s hood as they shot under-
neath.
Then once more the road headed for the
sea. But this time there was no detour
inland again. Almost at the water’s edge
the car came to a standstill, so that its
headlights cut a path across the still ocean.
Then, as their driver switched out the lights,
the night closed round them swiftly, wel-
coming them in an embrace so eager that
all sight was for the moment occluded.
It gave to Fay Campbell the impression
of utter oblivion. Death would be like that,
she thought. The long journey, the many
twists and turns, the ups and downs, with
hope always running on before, a dazzling
beam, just as the headlights of the car had
seemed to be always luring them on. Ami
then life would stop, the beacon would no
longer burn, and there would be nothing—
simply utter silence and utter blackness.
“Well, here we are.” It was Johns’s voice,
and the words fell banally on the stillness.
With an effort Fay recalled herself to the
present. Her retinae were accommodating
themselves to the darkness, so that the stars
were once more scintillating brightly, and
the ocean was slowly separating itself from
the shingle. The atmosphere of utter tran-
quillity remained, but it had taken on a
less sombre aspect. It was Death no longer
—it had become a balm which seeped gently
through her veins, and, stealing along her
nerves, soothed her to a sense of rest. She
leaned back against the cushion and was
glad that her companion, after his one
remark, had kept silent. The beauty was
too absolute to have been enjoyed fully
otherwise.
In front of them their driver sat motion-
less, head bowed a little as though in prayer
and silent worship of the night’s glory.
For a space—it must have been ten
minutes, she reflected afterwards—there was
silence, save for the crooning of the ocean
on the reef and the occasional faint creak
as the springs of the car, cooling in the
evening air, settled a little. It was a silence
of companionship; each was acutely con-
scious of the other’s presence and completely
satisfied to sit unspeaking. The faint snor-
ing of the driver served only to emphasise
their aloneness.
It was Fay who first broke the quietness.
“Look!” she whispered.
Over the rim of the ocean, discernible as
the line where the stars ceased to be. there
was stealing a faint luminescence. It was
not light, but the wraith of light, the promise
of light to be. Slowly it grew in brilliance
until the eastern stars were paled, and then,
like some cautious eye peeping from ambush,
the moon crept into the night.
The sea mist magnified it to a golden ball
of vast dimensions, and for a few minutes it
hupg suspended on the water’s ed° r e. doubt-
ful of its welcome, more than half-inclined
to steal softly back to cover. Then, with
sudden resolution, it freed itself of the sea
mist, and, changing to a creamy silver disc,
set out on its passage among the twinkling,
scintillating jewels that decked its path.
“No wonder Gilbert called it ‘Bright
beacon of the Heavens,’ ” Johns said, and
his voice was muted; but the other detected
the hint of bitterness in it.
“But surely,” her voice, too, was little
above her breath—“but surely you aren’t
as badly off as Captain Corcoran?”
Her hand was lying on the seat between
them, and it did not move as his fingers
strayed lightly on to it. She sat very still,
and her eyes were on the path that stretched
in silver ripples from the shingle to the
moon’s horizon.
“Worse!” Johns tried to make his words
lightly humorous, but the effort was not a
success. “Things are at worse than sixes and
sevens with me.”
“But I thought that your obligations
were with the Surf Queen? I thought that,
as you had left her, things must be all
right.”
She sensed rather than saw the negative
shake of her companion’s head.
“I don’t want to seem curious,” she said
softly, after another silence, “but”
Johns’s fingers tightened their clasp.
“It’s funny, isn’t it? I mean,” he said,
“the way we seem to have known each
other always. It surprises me to hear you
say you’d like to know. I have the feeling
that you do know—that you’ve always
known, as long as I have.”
Fay nodded. “Yes,” she said tunelessly.
“Yes—l know what you mean. One gets
these feelings every now and then.”
“I have never had it before.” Johns’s
voice was strangely different; not louder,
but more resonant, more vibrant, so that
it sent an odd thrill through her. She with-
drew her hand suddenly.
“It’s cold sitting here!” The laugh that
accompanied her words rang false in the
simplicity of the night. “Let us go for a
walk and look for fairies!”
She held out her hand to him. But her
clasp was that of a child persuading another
child to “come and look for fairies.”
The movement as she stood up aroused
the driver. Fie grunted, sat up with a jerk,
rubbing his eyes, and, in his yawning and
stretching, his elbow found the klaxon
button. The raucous noise shattered the
illusion and the mystery of the night.
“If we find any fairies after that,” Fay
said, half-peevishly, half-humorously, “I’ll
go ‘he’!”
The clear space where the car was stand-
ing was a natural clearing in the dense
jungle. On either side along the shore the
trees grew practically down to the water’s
edge, leaving only a narrow strip of shingle
which, at high tide, was barely more than a
yard in width. But now the water was
out, the tide was nearly at its full ebb.
and the wet sand, recently uncovered, was
a band of phosphorescence marking the
playground of a million tiny animalculse.
whose silver glow was not entirely out-
shone by the brilliance of the moon.
Two dozen paces saw them out of sight
of the car, and alone.
“It’s almost like being in another world.”
The girl’s voice was hushed. The spell of
the night had crept over her again.
“It is another world for me.” Johns turned
to her suddenly. “Fay, it is always another
world for me when I am with you. If
you only knew how I felt that day on the
Surf Queen. I had been down in Hell,
and I came out on deck to find—you! It
was Heaven. I had lived in Hell for three
years and more.”
What did it matter? She was. sailing
to-morrow; going out of his life for ever.
He knew that he could not accept the offer
of a passage with them, even should her
father feel disposed to make another after
his refusal of the first. He would never
see her again—except in his dreams. Why
not tell her? He hated the role of poseur.
He had not hesitated to lay bare his soul—
or parts of it—to Etty. Why, then, should
he hesitate when Fay was a woman of his
own stratum in life? And it would help
in the time that lay ahead.
“I had lived in Hell for three years. Four
years a.go I was a tutor at Oxford. Yes,
it does seem incredible, I know. But it is
a fact. And then, like a fool, knowing
how strong-minded I was—strong-minded,
my God!—l took some cocaine by way of
an experiment. It was to settle an argu-
ment I had had with the lecturer in bio-
physics; he had some theory about meta-
bolic changes being the cause of drug habits.
And I said it was just a matter of strength
of mind. That it was only the weak-willed
who would give in to it! I, in my arro-
gance of an Exhibition or two, considered
myself far above any such weakness.”
He broke off suddenly with an expressive
gesture.
Neither spoke for a minute; then Fay
stretched out her hand.
“You poor thing,” she whispered. “So
that was the ‘obligation’ that had father
so puzzled, was it? That blond giant and
his giantess daughter were curing you
of it? And father, I think, disbelieved you
when you told him that your obligations
were not—what he thought they were.”
“And you?” Johns brushed aside the
opinions of her father. They were of no
account. “And you?”
It was the girl’s turn to spread her hands.
“I thought not,” she said at length, slowly.
“But nowadays one hardly knows what to
think —or what not to think. I suopose it’s
the effect of the war. But one always has
the feeling that it is wiser neither to trust
nor to distrust. A man’s past is his own


>7%
rf9»
s
w,
vr t.
’•••••-' . ':
m>
3<^
■
m
J
&
it
>?A
:a^-
b;o
■a;;
’ ir t
t„V.fi!s -
1
ft,?. I
•Y'S
CHAMPION reserve
I PORT
e BOTTLED BY THE makers
THOMAS HARDY B.SONS LIMITED
; W T. «USTC»I_,A~ w, N 6 —'
1 PINT 6 FLUID Qzs~—
S 3
Fortunate
Tintara
OLD-tinted by the rays of a happy
v “* sun, the broad vineyards of Tin-
tara smile and gladden to a rich
success.
The dominating factors of purity and
excellence, which have achieved for
Hardy’s Champion Reserve Wine (Gold
Label) their enviable popularity, were
created on these glowing fields.
The fact that Hardys place these
very high-quality wines before the
public at such moderate prices
sets their competitors furiously
to think.
Procurable at all Botch and
Incensed Stores which spe-
cialise in stocking the higher
grades of wines.
■ssn
■ i nn
Will
Work
Against
Any
Pressure
Approved by the
various Water and
Sewerage Boards.
Constructed for
Fitting on Either
Hand.
“HUSH” Silent Flusher
This very efficient Flushing- Valve is now extensively installed throughout
Australia. It stands alone for reliability, and the materials used in its manu-
facture ensure many extra years of service. After a very exhaustive test
the “Hush” Silent Flushers were selected for installation in the New Harbor
Trust Building, Melbourne. We can report that they are giving every
satisfaction. The “Hush” will work efficiently against any Water Pressure,
even Yan Yean. This was proved by the following incident. Owing to the
necessity of occupying the lower portions of the Harbor Trust Building
before the completion of the structure the Flushers had to be connected
direct to the main, and with this pressure of about 1001 b. the “Hush” gave
no trouble whatever.
The price of the “Hush” Complete with Nickel-plated Flush Pipe is
£5/5/-
HIGH QUALITY BATHROOM WARE
And Bathroom Fittings can always be seen in our Melbourne and Sydney
Showrooms. Inspection and Inquiries are invited.
BRASS AND COPPER TUBE AND FITTINGS,
WROUGHT IRON PIPES AND FITTINGS,
ALL SIZES AT LOWEST PRICES.
gmmmiminir
1 JOHN
iQ
immmnmtiQ
&SONI
iiiiiiiiiittimiiiiic
a*
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
affair. Wise women leave it at that mostly,
I think.”
“You need have had no fears.” Johns’s
voice was bitter. “There are still a few
gentlemen left in the world. But I suppose
one can hardly blame you for doubting—
or refusing to think. And yet you treated
me as an equal, and a friend?”
The humility in his voice roused the
maternal instinct that is never far below
the surface in any woman. She suddenly
felt an overwhelming pity for him. He
was a little child who needed comforting.
She stifled the impulse to soothe him as .she
could have wished. Instead, she laid her
fingers gently on his shoulders as he faced
her.
“You will conquer it,” she told him; and
her eyes, with the moon lighting the violet
shadows, were wells of truth as he looked
into them. “You will conquer it, I know.
Even three years of Hell cannot kill a
man’s spirit. You are getting control of
it now, aren’t you? Didn’t I hear you say
to father this evening that you were quite
cured?”
Johns nodded. “But it was a lie,” he
told her humbly. “I am a little better
than I was, certainly. But there is a long-
way to get yet. The bio-physics man was
right. There are metabolic changes in-
volved. One’s body cries for it, one’s
nerves nag ceaselessly until they get it.
And when the craze is on one, everything
else is of minor importance.”
His voice died away into the night. He
had said enough, more than enough,
already. He was not going to let his emo-
tions and the moon-magic play traitor to
his self-respect.
“But you’ll conquer,” she said again.
“Oh, I know you will! Won’t you let us
help you?” Her voice was diffident and
very low, so that Johns had to strain his
ears to catch her words. “It doesn’t seem
fair for us to go off to-morrow, and leave
you here to fight it out alone.”
Johns threw back his head in a gesture
that was wholly confident. “You have
helped me more than you will ever know,”
he told her, and again the glow of exalta-
tion was on him. Again, for the moment,
he felt assured of victory. “But I could not
possibly go with you. In the first place,
I have refused your father’s offer once.
And in the second”—his voice was less
confident, less assured, and he seemed to
be searching for words—“in the second
place, I would not care to risk you seeing
me in my—my weaker moments.”
The girl was disappointed, and yet glad.
“I knew you’d say that,” she nodded. “And
yet it seems so ridiculous, so illogical. If
we were in London, I suppose it would be
different. We wouldn’t think twice about
you.” She broke off as though about to
refute her own suggestion. Then, hurriedly,
she went on: “But out here, amongst all
these savages—why, it’s like leaving a ship-
wrecked sailor on a raft!”
“I know how you feel about it.” Johns
spoke slowly. “But can’t you see that a
man’s self-respect is more precious to him
than anything else—where some people are
concerned, anyway? I feel that it would
kill me to have you see me as Etty and her
father have. It’s hard to explain. They
were good to me; wonderfully good. It
was they and another man—an Italian, the
owner of a low-down grog-shop in Sydney—
who put me on the first step towards re-
generation. They battled for me. They—
Etty and her father—dragged me back from
Hell more than once. And they saw me
at my worst.” He shook his head as
though puzzled. “And yet it didn’t seem
to matter. It didn’t hurt my pride. It
was rather the other way about. I knew
that they recognised me for what I had
once been—a gentleman—and that know-
ledge made me proud. It was the only
thing that I had to be proud of, I sup-
pose. It’s queer psychology, isn’t it? But
with you” He shook his head again
and then, suddenly, spontaneously, he held
out his hands in a gesture of supplication.
“You can understand, can’t you? With
Etty and her father I didn’t care. Their
opinions were nothing to me. They
were”
Fay supplied the words that gratitude
restrained in him. With the camaraderie of
a child, she took his hands in hers. “They
of the Hundred Names, the Po Sing, the
Hoi Polloir
The words were not snobbish. They were
a simple statement of fact, unaffected as
had been her sudden gesture. And, as
simply, Johns nodded. Without assump-
tion or arrogance, he knew that such was
so. He and Fay were of the classes—
their instincts and breeding had been
handed down to them through generations.
They had been born into a certain stratum
of society, and nothing could ever alter
that fact, or disguise it, either from them-
selves or from other people.
“But you”—Johns picked up the thread
again—“you are different. I feel that,
when the time comes, I shall be able to
lay bare” He stopped abruptly. He
had not meant to say that much.
As though sensing his embarrassment, in-
tuitively scenting an awkward pause, Fay,
with an impatient laugh, snatched off her
hat so that the moon turned her hair to
a golden halo.
“We can’t be worried!” she quoted, and
the words took Johns back to a sweltering
theatre in somnolent Melbourne. “We
can’t be worried! Things always turn out
for the best sooner or later.” She grew
serious again. “I remember a dear old
man we met out along the beach towards
Waikiki. A dear old man who had been a
sea-captain once. Adam Bray his name
was. He used to sit all day long in a deck
chair set in a sheltered nook, with his sight-
less eyes out on the horizon. He was always
glad to chat with anyone who happened
along; and he could tell you all sorts of
wonderful stories if ever he took a fancy
to you. I spent a lot of time with him.
and it used to fascinate me, the calm
philosophy with which he accepted his
blindness. I said something to him about
it one day, and while he answered me he
turned his eyes on mine. I felt that he
was looking at my soul, that blind, gentle,
little, old man, as he said, 'Of course,
missie, we must just accept these things.
The Master Pilot pricks the course, and
we can only follow.’ ”
Johns shook his head. “I don’t think
so. Henley was nearer to the truth, I
think. You know:
'/ am the master of my fate,
I am the captain of my soul.’ ”
“That was just the argument I used on
him.” They looked at one another sud-
denly; it was another bond between them.
“But he had an answer to that, too. 'Per-
haps so, missie’—the old dear was far too
gentle to contradict me flatly. 'Perhaps so,
missie,’ he said, and, if you please, quoted
Omar to me.”
Johns shook his head again. “Who
knows?” he admitted. “Sometimes I think
that I am pricking my own course as your
old captain would say, and sometimes I
know that it is not so; for it surely was
Providence that sent the Arethusa to Lola-
Panga. I was in the Slough of Despond
then, with a vengeance.”
A dazzling smile suddenly lighted the
girl’s face. “It doesn’t matter!” she
assured him, and her eyes had suddenly
become two glowing diamonds. “It doesn’t
matter! Fate or yourself, it’s all the same.
I think the fairies must be here, after all—
I can hear them whispering. I am ‘fey’
to-night, and I know—oh! I know—that
you’ll win out!”
Johns was staring at her in amazement.
Her face had been transfigured for the
moment. But the moment passed and a
second later she was laughing shame-
facedly.
“Forgive me!” she apologised. “I’m get-
ting melodramatic!” She laid her fingers
on his arm. “And now you’ll take me back
to the car, won’t you? And see that we
have a nice, mundane, heavy supper? We’ve
been living in the clouds quite long enough,
haven’t we?”
Her father was waiting up for them
when they returned. “Thought I’d stay up,”
he explained as they found a table. “Give
you a farewell supper party—unless you’d
like to change your mind, and come along
with us?”
Johns felt the gill’s eyes on him. He
was afraid to look at her lest, even now,
his resolution should weaken.
“No, thank you. I should like to come
very much, but—I have work to do here.”
The elder man accepted the refusal with
a nod. “By the way, you weren’t at that
party they gave us aboard the little wind-
jammer?” The question seemed to hang
suspended in the air.
Again Johns felt the girl’s eyes on him.
And again he kept his own averted. “No,”
he answered, and he was surprised to find
that his voice could manage to sound
casual. “No, I wasn’t able to be there.”
“Yes, I remember now. That long,
gaunt chap—the cook, wasn’t he?—told us.
It was a good supper, too. Clever chap,
that cook.”
“Yes.” Johns’s voice was contemplative.
He was weighing the statement in his
mind. “Yes, Varley was certainly a clever
fellow. A well-educated man, really. He
had been a medical student once, he told
me.”
The other’s eyebrows elevated. “Bit of a
comedown, eh? Wonder why?”
“Facile est descensus” Fay had
lighted a cigarette, and was absorbed in
rolling it backwards and forwards between
two fingers and a slim thumb. “But it is
really only a man who is a man that can
come back again.”
“And even then,” Johns nodded his
agreement—“and even then only when he
has the incentive.”
Fay put the cigarette between her lips.
“And that is?”
“Whatever he has set his heart on—
provided he wants it sufficiently earn-
estly.”
Ten minutes later, when they left the
table, the elder man was still talking of
gastronomic interludes, satisfying or exas-
perating, that he had known, and his last
words to Johns were a promise to dine
him royally when he looked them up in
London.
“You’ve got the address all right?” Camp-
bell’s voice was anxious with the hospitality
that one white man feels for another in the
outposts of civilisation. “Philippi’s the
name of the house. We’ll have a real
dinner—you won’t forget?”
Johns was at the head of the stens lead-
ing to the pavement. The light from the
chandelier in the lounge was slanting
through Fay’s hair. He shook his head.
“No,” he promised. “No, I won’t forget
Philippi. It’s an easy name to remember.”
(To be continued next week.)


Keep hopping and hoping if you wisl
to succeed-
1/
yy
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sidney.
Patents.
BOTTLE CLOSURES AND A METHOD
OF PRODUCING THE SAME.
'T’HE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 7939/27 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
CLOSURE APPLYING MACHINE.
’"THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 7661/27 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Patents.
A METHOD OR PROCESS OF
OPERATING AUGERS.
HTHE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 16257/20 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale or its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
J 7
Monarch
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
To pick the winner of the V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle this year is a problem.
Claude Grice’s prad, Nauru, is favorite, and
certainly reads well at 9st. 91b. He won the
V.R.C. Marlborough Hurdle with lOst. 21b.,
but did not appreciate the rise to list. 41b.
at Caulfield on June 18 and was unsighted.
Redditch carried list. 21b. to splendid victory
at Williamstown last Saturday. He comes
down nearly a stone in weight, but will have
to concede Nauru 191 b. over a three-mile
journey, which is a tough undertaking. Bay
of Biscay might have vanquished Redditch
at Williamstown, but for over-reaching and
slightly injuring the fetlock of his off-fore-
leg. Two years ago Bay of Biscay ran third
to Kentle and Chumree. He exhibited a dis-
like to jumping last winter and was with-
drawn from the “National.”
Bhopal was favorite for the race that Red-
ditch won on Saturday. She fell seven fur-
longs from home, when going really well and
just beginning to gather in the leaders. St.
Magnus forfeited his Williamstown engage-
ment, the trainer desiring to keep him fresh
for Lis Flemington contract. This young
gelding has only 9st. 21b. Wingarara (1912)
and Will Comfort (1919) landed the Grand
National Hurdle after a Port Phillip Hurdle
success at Williamstown, and, if for that
reason alone, Redditch will be strongly sup-
ported next Saturday.
Bert Leonard, the Queensland pastoralist,
who won the National last season with Cock-
crow, could not understand the gelding’s
recent displays, and remarked that he would
have to reveal considerable improvement at
Bert; / 1m <=,oinq home to e>Eot
<SERT :*WHy, WHATS THE MATTER
GOT a COUO IM THE HEAD*
QERT '• *\NEU_, THAT'S SOMETHIHC? ’ "
Williamstown to liave any chance of repeat-
ing the 1931 triumph. Cockcrow and Daily
Mail were leading when the former fell,
seven furlongs from home. To some extent
Cockcrow rehabilitated himself, but he will
have to meet Redditch on nearly a stone
worse terms on Saturday. Ithuricl disgraced
himself. No line could be obtained about
Poidale. as he unseated Winks at the first
flight of battens. P. G. Hay owns Poidale,
who is by Poitrel, and won at the Warrnam-
bool Cup meeting'in May
No great light was thrown on National
Steeplechase prospects by the cross-country
contest at Williamstown. Precocious, the
winner, is a half-brother to Rakwool, who
scored so brilliantly over the Flemington
fences 12 months ago. He is owned and
trained by Miss Dorothy Sheil, a dashing
follower of the hounds; her father bred both
Rakwool and Precocious. At the Y.R.C.
June meeting, Precocious was third to Arche-
son and West Wing. He measured the
fences very carefully on that occasion, but
showed considerably more dash on Saturday.
Appellant, with 161b. more than his National
impost, could not get nearer than third.
Sarocto and Boonerah shaped a long way
below expectations, and Congoola ran off at
one of the fences. Unless the Maoriland
aspirants are something out of the common
it looks, at this stage, as if the second leg
of the big jumping double will go to either
Archeson or Precocious.
Ronald Cameron, who rode The Parisian
to victory in a Melbourne Cup and was nar-
rowly beaten in the same race on Trafalgar,
is now one of the leading Victorian trainers.
Cameron has versatility. He landed the
principal fiat event at Richmond on June
18 with Prince Don, and ran first and third
in the Maiden ITurdle at Williamstown with
Claronga and Caramelo. The last-named two
horses are in the Grand National Hurdle.
Eric Connolly imported Caramelo from Eng-
land.
Harry Telford, of Phar Lap fame, is
achieving a reputation for first-up surprises
in Melbourne. Petit Fils, who had never
raced before, lost the juvenile event at Caul-
field on June 18 by half a head, and another
debutante. Eastern Ally, lost the youngsters’
race at Williamstown by the narrowest of
margins. Neither was backed by the stable.
Myarin, who is well known at Rand wick, was
unluckily beaten in the Point Cook Handi-
cap, but a stablemate, Lancegay, compen-
sated by taking the Esplanade Welter.
* * * *
For Flemington on Saturday:—
Grand National Hurdle: St. Magnus, 1;
Nauru, 2; Bhopal, 3.
Kensington Steeplechase: Copey or
Appellant.
Winter Handicap: King Mart or Myarin.
* » * #
“Mr. Constable” has got hold of a good
horse in Dover Patrol, by Heroic —Winter,
and it is a pity the youngster was gelded.
Dover Patrol is a thick-set chestnut, like
his sire, and he gave a rare exhibition of
galloping in the Juvenile Stakes at Rosehill
on Saturday. From the extreme outside
position he was soon in front, and when
half the six furlongs had been traversed
he was so far ahead of the 13 others that
Bartle began hanging on to him. Un-
troubled, the chestnut won by lengths from
Wet and Timorous, both recent winners;
and he is unlikely to go out at fours next
time he starts.
The Three-year-old Handicap looked open,
and McShortodds offered fives the field.
Wawina (Roubaix —Rodan) wound up favo-
rite at that price, Maybe and Herolage being
at sixes. Le Legion had not raced for a
couple of months, but he looked so bright
that a few shrewd heads specked him; then
a bit of money came for the Legionnaire
gelding, and he went out at eights. Coutts
got him away pretty well, and he had his
field settled at the home turn; Maybe, on
whom Jimmy Munro was having his first
ride after an enforced spell, was second,
but could not pace it with Le Legion, who
stays fairly well and may be a Metrop. pos-
sibility. Celebrate, a Magpie gelding, who
was evidently in need of a few gallops, was
third. He is worth bearing in mind.
Backers wanted nothing but Celtic (7
to 2) and Sunlit Reef (5 to 1) for the
Flying Welter, and they finished first and
second. Port Said drifted from threes to
tens; he also ran accordingly. Pike had an
easy ride on Celtic —at least, he made it
look easy.
It was thought that Pike and Egli, the
rider of Sunlit Reef, would have their tussle
over again in the June Handicap, Pike being
on the favorite, King March, and Egli on
Khartoum (5 to 1). And so they did. in a
way; but both their mounts were downed
by an outsider, Flinders (20 to 1). Khar-
toum’s backers were unlucky, as he got out
too late after running erratically and then
being pocketed in the straight; but he is
a pig of a horse, and stronger boys than
Egli might have had the same experience.
W. Kelso, who owns and trains Flinders,
had Khartoum in his stable for a while, and
was not sorry to get rid of the brute. King
March, who .shows quality, ran pretty well,
and is capable of improvement. The three-
year-old Sassanides was backed, but failed
to see out the 11 furlongs, which were
left behind in 2min. 21fsec.
The Maiden Handicap was another good
betting race, the call being 11 to 2 the
field. With a clear run Nord (11 to 2), also
from Kelso’s stable, would have placed the
issue beyond doubt; in a bumping finish he
was narrowly beaten by Magnitas (6 to 1),
a three-year-old by Magpie—Saintly Ida,
owned and trained by Peter Riddle. A pro-
test was dismissed.
* * * *
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Flying Welter; Truesign or Senator;
next, Bowery.
July Handicap: Chuquisaca or Wallace
Mimi; next, Firbolg.
Hurstville Mile: Chuquisaca or Senator;
next, Beau Dennis.
Four-year-olds look like playing a big
part in the spring handicaps. Except Night-
march, Veilmond, Second Wind and two
or three others, of whom the handicappers
have taken good care (for example, Night-
march has lOst. 21b. in the Metropolitan and
Veilmond lOst. lib.) the older horses are
not much good. At present this Page likes
Jacko (Bst. 21b.) for the Epsom and Sat-
moth (Bst. 61b.) or Agincourt (7st. 101 b.)
for the Metropolitan; Agincourt (7st. 111 b.)
or Viol d’Amour (Bst. 111 b.) for the Caul-
field Cup and Middle Watch (Bst. 111 b.)
or Satmoth (Bst. lib.) for the Melbourne
Cup.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“Tom Cribb”: W. L. Stribling, who landed
in Sydney last week, booked for a series .of
fights in Australia, is unquestionably the best
Yankee pug to visit this country since the
days of Jimmy ,Clabby and McGoorty. A
heavyweight, he has always been noted for
his willingness to take on all and sundry at
any time, the elephantine Camera included.
A fast two-handed fighter with a devastating
punch, Stribling has 152 knock-outs to his
credit, and has fought as many as 55 fights
in a year. His theory is that ring-fighting
is the best and least expensive method of
training: “I’m just as likely to smash a
hand in a training bout as in the ring;
besides they pay me for smacking people in
the ring, while if I have sparring partners I
have to pay them to let me hit them.” A
sound outlook. Stribling is to meet Palmer
on Monday night.
* * # *
“Mitt Shover”: What most of the news-
papermen voted a rotten decision gave Jack
Sharkey the world’s heavyweight boxing
championship after his match with the Ger-
man title-holder, Max Schmelling, had gone
the full 15 rounds. The judges (there were
two) were divided, and the referee gave his
easting vote in favor of Sharkey. The Ger-
man, always aggressive, nearly had Sharkey
out in the last round.
* * *
Some real wrestling was seen at the
Stadium on Saturday night, the parties
being Sam Clapham (I3st. 91b.) and Harry
Mamos (I3st. 131 b.), two of Mclntosh’s im-
portations. Ringsiders appreciated the clean
work, but the back-benchers wanted fancy
stuff, and counted the newcomers out a
couple of times. Mamos was nimbler than
the rather rotund Englishman, and won the
first fall in the third round. iClapham got
even in the seventh with a crotch-hold and
body-press. Mamos on points.
*•»
King Elliott (13st. 101 b.), a newcomer
to Leichhardt, was too fast for Tom Lurich
(14st. 31b.) at the local arena. With a
flying-tackle, then an aeroplane-spin, he
scored a fall in the third round. He was
still the speedier man in the fourth and
fifth, but Lurich, with a body-scissors, put
his opponent down in the sixth. They were
thus equal in falls, and the match was de-
clared a draw, but Elliott was a hatful of
points ahead.
Footbrawl
Though wintry and wet conditions lsept
some away, the meeting of South Melbourne
and the Richmond Tigers, in the Vic. League
competition, drew nearly 40,000 to the Rich-
mond ground on Saturday. There was little
science about the game, but it was vigorous
enough for any barracker, and exciting
withal. The Tigers, having been put wise to
the virtue of marking the slippery ball on
the chest and being nippier all round, got
away with a tidy lead; then the Red-and-
Whites settled down to play a strong game,
which slowly brought its reward. By lemon-
time the scores were level. The last term
was a give-and-take struggle. The Tigers
managed one goal, the others one goal and
two behinds. That was all between them,
but it sent the Southerners home still unde-
feated—s 7 points to Richmond’s 55. Essen-
don, which had had difficulty in beating
Hawthorn. shocked Geelong barrackers
by defeating their pets on their own ground
—’Don, 78; Geelong, 63. Collingwood
avenged its many defeats on St. Ivilda’s
ground by a paralysing last quarter that
caught and left the Saints with only 88
points to ’Wood’s 105. Melbourne, any-
body’s plaything nowadays, scored a miser-
able 27 points to Footscray’s 67 ; litzroy
achieved its second victory this season by
notching 93 to Hawthorn’s 63; and Carlton
outed North Melbourne with 100 to <o.
m * * *
The opening match of the All Blacks
tour against N.S.W. at Sydney Cricket
Ground was something of a disappointment
to the 27,000 who attended, for the expected
sparkle was conspicuous by its absence.
There were occasional bright intervals,
especially in the closing stages, but much
of the play was far below the standard one
looks for in the men across the Tasman.
The visitors won in the last minute by
13-11 (3 tries, 2 converted, to 2 tries, a
converted goal and a penalty) when the
home players had a two-point lead. _ Usually
the opening match between the visitors and
N.S.W. is looked on as a good thing for the
home side, many a M.L. team which has
walked off with the subsequent Tests having
gone down in this fixture. On this occasion
the tourists were fortunate to get up on the
post, but that is all part of the game. This
match was one of the rare occasions when
an Australian team has had the better of it
in the forwards against the All Blacks. They
definitely held supremacy in scrums, line-
outs and ruck work, and had they been sup-
ported by their inside-backs, who were feeble
in the extreme, the game would have had
a different ending. King ivas unhappy at
five-eighth, and Towers and Campbell at
centre were not up to interstate form, and
gave their wings no chance. Bland was
supreme in the line-outs, while Morton and
Cerutti earned every ounce of their oats.
Weakness in the centre was also marked
among the All Blacks. Kilby is a fine scrum-
half, but five-eighth Lilburne was very oft.
though Pollack played a great game along-
side him. Two sterling wingers in Ball and
Bullock-Douglas had to make their own
openings. In the Black pack, McLean stood
out by himself. Purdue and Steere were
two other good men. The Samoan break-
away Solomon failed to shine. The tackling
by both sides was the most attractive fea-
ture of the game. Hard and deadly, it was
largely responsible for the failure of the
back divisions to open up play.
$ $ * £
The Australian team for the _ first Test
against the All Blacks in Sydney is a strong
one on paper, and the three leading Rugby
States have all been drawn on. The side
comprises Ross, King, Malcolm, Bland,
Love and Cerutti. of N.S.W.; Steggall.
Lawton, Clarke, White, Cook and Bonis, of
Queensland; and Cowper, Sturtridge and
Bridle, of Victoria. With Lawton at his
best, this will be a hard lot to beat.
"1* •!* *l*
The Sydney Rugby League competition
games on Saturday provided a couple of
surprises. One was when Balmain downed
Eastern Suburbs 7-5, thanks to solid defence.
The other was University’s success against
North Sydney, 4 goals by Mclnerney help-
ing the Students to 11 points against 8.
Western Suburbs gave Newtown an awful
towelling by 38-5, and South Sydney had
no trouble with St. George, scoring 22-5.
$ $ $
After winning two matches at Mary-
borough and Rockhampton on their way up
the Queensland coast, the English Rugby
Leaguers tackled North Queensland at
Townsville on Saturday and won 20-2. The
tourists are due back in Sydney to play
N.S.W. on July 4.
(Continued on next page.)
The N.S.W. amateur golf championship
was won by R. H. Bettington by 7 and 5
after a final in w T hich he and opponent W.
R. Dobson alternated some fine patches of
play with some that were not. Bettington
putted with deadly accuracy all through the
competition, and this feature of his play
was largely responsible for his success. The
winner, who has played for Oxford, last
year took the Australian foursomes with
C. H. Fawcett.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUS TRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
OLD GOLD AND BROKEN JEWELLERY PURCHASED
At highest ruling rates.
Special Services available for country clients.
BUYERS AND SELLERS OP
New Zealand Notes,, English Notes, English Silver, and all Foreign Currency.
ROYAL GOLD & CURRENCY EXCHANGE CO.
40 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. 'Phone 85417.
c,W
Now in its 91st Year
“The Examiner” is still the trusted Friend of the Family in
Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in Tasmania,
and is the acknowledged Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
sdf
THE GENUINE WATERPROOF BLUEY
MINERS’ BLUEY (Guaranteed Waterproof).
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHNSTONE BROS. PTY., LTD.,
Derwent Woollen Mills, Hobart.
Footbrawl
“Mutton Bird”: One of the troubles of
the Tasmanian Football Association is the
perennial question as to whether some of
its best players may not be induced to cross
the creek to Victoria. Knowing the reputa-
tion of the Victorian League clubs for pinch-
ing good players from other States —many
of the stars in Melbourne this year
are South or West Australians —the Speck
heads kept a darned careful eye on the Vic-
torian team which recently visited the Apple
Isle. There were some 25 players and, by
Tassy reports, about 250 secretaries and
similar agents of the Melbourne League
clubs. The local press sarcastically asked
whether the unofficial visitors were there
for the sake of fresh air and a change of
scenery—Tassy being in these respects far
ahead of Collingw’ood and Footscray.
“Hotham”: St. Kilda, a club which has
always kidded itself a bit, but lias done
little of late years to justify its opinion by
performance, has fared worse this season
than ever. The blame has been laid on
the shoulders of coach Hardy, who has been
invited to w’rite his own walking ticket. In
reply Hardy referred in scathing terms to
the people the committee had supplied to
him with the idea of making up a team —
Victorian League football is, of course, a
professional game, and the St. Kilda authori-
ties seem to have been poor buyers of stock
'on the hoof. He wound up by refusing to
turn in his ticket, and there the matter ends
for the present.
“Old Q.”: I notice the English Rugby
League footballers who arc now touring
North Queensland have been complaining
about the hard grounds. A pity that Charters
Towers is not in their itinerary. Writer
once visited the field w’hen it was booming
in the mid-’nineties, playing with a Bris-
bane Rugby Union club known as the Past
Grammars. Across the centre of the Towers
ground of those days ran what later ex-
perience taught me was a schist-quartz for-
mation—-they referred to it up there as a
“bit of an outcrop.” When we got back
to our hotel after a gruelling match most of
us had hot baths. In my case, with both
knees and elbows full of gravel—l was play-
ing scrum-half, with a pack of Towers
miners averaging 14 stone to face, plus a
short-sighted referee —I had an extra-special
boiling. Hot water was not laid on in those
days, so it had to be done in a tub. Next
morning, when turning out the tub in the
bathroom, I spotted a “speck.” Washed up
in a hand-basin the recovery was eight
pennyweights. I have often wondered since
then if I should not be rated as a profes-
sional.
“Birkenhead Park”: The Rugby Football
Union, which amounts to the united forces
of England, Wales. Scotland and Ireland,
lias for years steadily opposed all attempts
by “Colonial” unions to gain effective repre-
sentation on the International Board which
controls the conduct of Rugby football.
Lately the Board has made a tentative
attempt to deal with a source of growing
discontent by suggesting the inauguration of
a “Commission,” in which the four British
Unions and those of South Africa and Aus-
tralia would bo united. As, however, the
proposed commission is only to be advisory,
it is unlikely that the proposal will meet
with approval in Australia or South Africa.
It is becoming evident that if the Inter-
national Board, swayed as it is by the Scot-
tish and Irish Rugby Unions, does not climb
down from its high horse and permit the
“Colonials” to have an actual hand in the
conduct of the international amateur code,
there will be a big boil-over.
“Jolimount”: Recognising that the fine
Australian game is unknown outside our
boundaries, the Victorian League is dis-
turbed at the strong trend in Melbourne
University and in some of the Great
Public Schools towards the world-wide
amateur code. At a meeting of the
League last week, a delegate from the
North Melbourne club urged the League to
combat, by all means at its command, the
proposed introduction of the Rugby game
to the G.P.S. Two Victorian schools which
have definitely decided to give the Rugby
eode a chance are Scotch College and Gee-
long Grammar. Both, the latter particularly,
send many men to Oxford and Cambridge.
Fine footballers under the Australian
code landing on the other side have to
begin all over again. By adopting Rugby,
the Australian schools and universities would
find themselves in accord with nearly every
other school or university in the Empire.
Racquet and Bawl
“C. Court.” : Wimbledon was thunder-struck
at the defeat of the mighty Cochet by the Scot
I. G. Collins. The, winner was in Australia
with the British team in 1.928, and though he
proved a sound doubles player, was not rated
highly here as a solo artist. With Dr.
Gregory, however, he proved a formidable
snag to the Australian players in the doubles
events. Sproule, who must be considered
fortunate to have reached the Australian
Davis Cup team ahead of Turnbull, was
knocked out early by Man gin, American
indoor champion.
“Amateur Pro.”: Marvellous what a lot
of money it needs to keep the average “ama-
teur” going in sport, nowadays. Austin let
the cat out of the big the other day, when he
told a London journal that the annual ex-
penses of a Wimbledon “aspirant” run to £BOO
a year. He writes off £4OO of this for loss
of earnings, but reckons that court and
club fees run to £35 for the season, travel-
ling expenses to £l5O, training costs £4O
and £l7O for “sundries.” The question is
where the money comes from. Most tennis-
players of note are men in comparatively
humble walks of life —certainly few of them
are of excessive wealth. In the case of
Betty Nuthall one can understand Austin’s
assertion that she spent thousands learning
the game and that her annual tennis exes,
work out at about £6OO, for Nuthall pere et
mere sit behind stacks of brass. But about
most of the others-—I dunno. Perhaps if the
makers of racquets, balls and other tennis
gear would talk they might be able to en-
lighten us.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: The members of the
Maoriland Kirk-Windeyer Cup team got
rather a towelling in the open stages of the
N.S.W. amateur championship. Silk, w
his easy, flowing style, w 7 as greatly fancied
for the semi-finals, but he was outed by his
compatriot, Brinsden, the only All Black to
reach the deciding rounds. One surprise of
the show was the defeat of another M.L.
crack, H'ornabrook, by Hambledon. The
winner is a gunner officer in the Indian Army
and is spending his leave in Australia. Wher-
ever he learned his golf, he imbibed it
thoroughly.
RUGBY UNION HEADS.
1— S. Malcolm (N.S.W. captain). 2 — F. D. Kilby (Maoriland captain). 3— E. R. Steere
( vice-captain, M.L.). 4— W. Wallace ( manager, M.L.). Noseda ( secretary,
N.S.W.R.U.). 6 — R. A. Martin ( chairman, R.U. management committee).
“Carnoustie”: It is unfortunate that the
loss of the Australian Golf Club’s building
b Y firc necessitated the transfer of the
N.S.W. contests for the amateur champion-
sbi P s and tbe Kirk-Windeyer Cup to the
Royal Sydney course at Rose Bay. The
arrangements made there were unsatisfac-
tory. ’The large gallery surged all over the
place at its own sweet will, and packed the
sides of the green to such an extent that
competitors had more than once to wait for
some minutes before they could play up.
Surely to goodness tlie Royal Sydney is
affluent enough to afford a length of rope
wherewith to keep the crowd off the
approaches to the greens.
* * * *
“Brassey”: With the golfing season in
full swing, the usual tales of ball-stealing
by crows arc flowing into The Bueletin.
swartsrWMSra
At Killara, Sydney, tlie sooty nuisances
were so bad during the annual tourney of
the 01d Sydneians that most of the players
* ost va l ua ble pills during the round, one
ma P f,° re ,P* ace a ® mmiy as three •
aad with balls at 6d each that is no
light matter. Une associates louisome came
back to tbe 49tb eigllt down between
them. Crows in other countries seem to
have no taste for golf balls. In South Africa
and India, where the black ruffian is always
ready to thieve anything else, golfers make
no complaint of him. In Britain one hears
of an occasional theft by a seagull from sea-
side courses. Anyway, what does the crow
do with the balls? He is a wise fowl and
is not likely to harbor the delusion that
the things are edible after one experiment.
“Miaow”: Susie Tolhurst, the Victorian
golferette who did so well on Stanton Sands,
rather fluttered the golfing dovecotes in an
interview given to one of the London papers
after the tourney was over. One of her feats
was the defeat of Diana Fishwick, an ex-
champion of England, in the closing rounds.
Diana, according to Susie, had fairly to be
shoved up to her to congratulate her on her
win, and the “congrats.” were then given
with all the enthusiasm and heartfelt warmth
of a cold boiled potato. Generally, the Vic-
torian said, her intrusion was regarded as
a piece of “colonial” impertinence, and her
subsequent knock-out by an English player
was received with hardly disguised approval.
“Hamilton” : This is the season when the
golfing female of the species rushes into
championship contests. Queensland has just
completed its ninth tussle for the champion-
ship belt or whatever it is that the associates
battle for; and Victoria is getting set for
the 22nd go for the blue ribbon, which begins
at Royal Melbourne on July 11. only dames
with a handicap of 15 or less being allowed
in. There will be two 18-liole stroke rounds
on the opening day (the first eight to
qualify) ; the two other rounds of IS
will be match play. The final will be over
30 holes on July 15. One item in the pro-
gramme which doesn’t seem likely to attract
a heavy entry is the Veterans’ championship.
The titleholder is Susie Tolhurst. at present
in Britain. If she gets back in time to com-
pete. the race should be all over bar shouting.
“Marino”: Royal Adelaide Golf Club is
tucking up its shirt-sleeves and geicing busy
for the open, amateur andprofessional eham-
pionslups of Australia, which will be played
for on its course at Seaton during the. 12
banning August 13. The carnival
will luck off with the foursomes champion-
My on August 15 and the 18th, 19th and
-oth will be demoted to the big turn—the
open championship, four rouuds of 18-hole
stroke, the leading 60 players after tlie first
two rounds to have the right to show in
the remaining two. Only amateurs with a
club handicap of six and under can enter,
and at least 24 must qualify to play m the
concluding rounds The amateur champion-
ip. Wl l. occ .”P y tbe las jL f . oU 1 r day ? .°f * bc
S the firJ'lG amateurs intheTimm’ e ?ent
nUv nff T !
U j4"/ A ™ cm rofessionah will take
f -kmsss
’'
r , r ,
v - ar ana v^ycie
“Differential”: Since Joan Richmond and
jj rSi Wisdom won the 1000-mile motor race
BrooklaßdB> there has been no holding
, .„ .. . TT .,. ,
the women drivers of Great Britain. Hitherto
tlie British motoring authorities have
frowned on attempts by women to compete
with men drivers in the events for high-
powered cars, but Mrs. Wisdom has now
insisted on the acceptance of her entry for
a coming race in which she proposes to
drive a big Leyland-Thomas capable of 150
m.p.h. Her entry with this car last year
was turned down, but this time she intends
to go through with it. On the Continent
women drivers compete freely with men,
notably in the Le Mans circuit, one of the
most gruelling of 24-hour contests.
* « * *
“Hotham”: That suggestion for a motor
rally on the lines of the Monte Carlo event
(B. 8/6/’32) is being taken up in Victoria,
where the Bight Car Club, the first to stage
an Australian Grand Prix event, last year
made a success of a somewhat similar run
with Mt. Buffalo as the rallying point. Those
interested propose that the rally conclude at
Melbourne on October 28, the day before the
opening of the Melbourne Cup carnival. A
committee is in course of formation to
promote and organise the affair. Entrants
will be given a wide choice of routes, and
towns will be marked as controls, with de-
fined times for arrival and departure duly
indicated. Cars will be classified according
to power, each section having its average
speed allotted. For light cars this will
range from 20 to 23A m.p.h., with from 2o
to 27 m.p.h. for others. Points will be
allotted according to distance travelled, the
minimum distance of any of the official
routes being fixed at probably 1000 miles,
and there will be many other tests for which
points may be awarded or deducted.
A publication invaluable to motor-cyclists
is “Your Motor-cycle on Road and Track,'’
a pamphlet issued by the Vacuum Oil Co.
Excellently illustrated with diagrams show-
ing all details of m.-c. mechanism, it is full
of advice and instruction on every aspect
of motor-cycle work, and is right up to the
minute with its information.
Miscellaneous
“Shell”: Rowing men all over Australia
will hear with regret of the death of Harry
Floyd, one of the Grand Old Men of Austra-
lian sculling. A more than useful performer
in a shell himself, he will best be remem-
bered as a coach and trainer, many of this
country’s best having benefitted by his in-
struction, both among the professionals and
the amateurs. He was largely responsible
for the success of Dick Arnst, which was
the more remarkable since the Maoriland
giant had never sat in a boat until he had
made fame as a cyclist. James Paddon was
another 0 f Floyd’s proteges, and, among the
amateurs, Bobby Pearce, J. R. Scott and
H. Turner, all State and Australian cham-
pions, were under his wing at one time or
another.
:Js £ *
“Viti Levu”: The tin-hare industry was
formally opened in Fiji the other day, when
the first meeting was held on Brighton Park
racecourse, lent for the occasion. The show
was not a success, only about 400 turning
up. The Government refused to permit a
tote, and not a single Fijian native paid for
admittance. Though not so long ago tne
Fijian was a bloodthirsty cannibal, it is
evident that he knows when to draw the line.
“Blue Chalk”: One result of Walter Lin-
drum’s visit to America will be the intro-
duction to Australia of the American pool
game, which Walter describes as a kind of
glorified snooker. The returned traveller
has brought two American pool tables back
with him and expects the game to catch on.
It is played bn a smallish pocket table with
very large bails, which are distinguished by
stripe patterns of all the colors of the rain-
bow. Tom Newman. Lindrum’s sparring part-
ner in the States, is breaking the new game
gently to Britain.
“Bramall Lane” : Marathon cricket reached
its zenith in Yorkshire the other day, when
the Tykes’ opening batsmen, Sutcliffe and
Holmes, hoisted 555 runs for a first-wicket
partnership, Sutcliffe throwing his wicket
away when 313. As neither batsman is in
the dasher class, the proceedings must have
been dreary in the extreme. The previous
record had stood since 1898, when J. T.
Browm and Tunnicliffe. also of Yorkshire,
put up 454. Brown will be remembered as
the sterling professional batsman who was
in Australia with Stoddart’s side of 1894-95,
and materially helped the visitors to win the
Test rubber.


sdf
By Marking with
NAMES
Saves loss in the laundry
Fadeless and Durable,
"A few Stitches and they're on.'
sdfs
Actual Size, Style No. 6.
Price*: 12 doz. 7/6
6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6
Sold by all Best Drapers .
Write for Style Circular to
J. & J. Cash Australian
Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd.
Richmond, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
\Y7OULD HILDA FLORENCE ADEL-
AIDE McDONALD, formerly of Dun-
edin, in New Zealand, but now of Sydney,
or any person knowing her present where-
abouts, kindly communciate with MESSRS.
EDMUND J. SMITH & LOUSLEY, Solici-
tors, 11 Bond Street, Dunedin, New Zealand,
immediately.
FREDERICK VINCENT ANGELL, son
1 of the late Nathan David Angell, late
of Ashwell, Herts, England, or anyone who
knows his address, please communicate with
P. WORBOYS, 523 Kent Street, Sydney.
The New Upper House for
New South Wales.
Read “THE BARRIER MINER” scheme for a
reformed Upper House that will be a bulwark
and a shield against all repudiation and all
destructive legislation for all time.
“THE BARRIER MINER,” of Broken Hill
and the Far Western district, is always in the
forefront with sound suggestions and advice
to readers.
Published every day at. Broken Hill.
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
Williamson Imperial Grand Opera Co.
Commencing with a Gala Performance of
AIDA,
on SATURDAY, JULY 2.
KING’S THEATRE: SAINT JOAN,
By Bernard Shaw.
Dame Sybil Thorndike and Complete English Co.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD.
M’g Directors: E. J. Tait, Frank Tait, J. H. Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: BITTER SWEET.
(Commencing Saturday.)
CRITERION: THE GOOD FAIRY.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
CHRONIC
RHEUMATISM
OR ARTHRITIS
Turns Active People into
Dependent Cripples
There are three main types of Rheumatism,
ail painful and dangerous. The Arthritis type
causes intense suffering; interferes with work
and pleasure; frequently disables, and some-
times leads to other ills resulting in death.
Among the signs of Arthritis are: a “below
par” feeling, bowels disordered, digestion
poor, breath bad, headaches, feverishness,
aches and pains, stiff, sore joints, stiff back.
If the disease is not treated it progresses,
causing overgrowths on the joints and thus
crippling. Loose bodies of bone and gristle
may form, suddenly wedging in the joints and
preventing movement. The thing to do is to
tone up the kidneys; assist the urinary organs
and eliminate uric acid by taking Harrison’s
Pills. This remedy of a London doctor, being
effective in all three types of rheumatism, is
fast supplanting old-style kidney pills.
Harrison’s Pills accord with recent scientific
findings in regard to kidney, bladder, urinary
and rheumatic disorders—they are antiseptic
in action, and give such quick and positive
relief that most sufferers regard them as
“miraculous.” Harrison’s Pills clear up aches,
pains, stiffness and swellings where other
things fail; chemists sell them in three inex-
pensive sizes, and the distributors offer money
back to any sufferer trying this remedy and
failing to get prompt relief from it.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
Among the birthday cheerios received by
the Prince of Wales this year was one from
the combined younger sets of the U.A.P.
At the youngsters’ first dance on June
23, they farther testified their loyalty at
the midnight hour by playing a floodlight
on his portrait while the. band hit up the
National Anthem. There had been friendly
competition between the young hostesses
over their table decorations, and one of the
most outstanding was a centre-piece of
Prince of Wales feathers, carried out in
white jonquils, the base a mound of orange
poppies. At first glance it seemed that
every member of the party and his wife
had come to the frivol, among them such
highlights as Premier Stevens aud Mrs.
Stevens, whose gown was of black Chan-
tilly lace; and Mrs. T. R. Bavin, her brown
chiffons kept warm with a beaver-trimmed
short coat of gold tissue. Black tulle was
the choice of the Mayoress, who with her
Lud was in the oflicial group ; and the S. M.
Bruces gave the show part of a crowded
evening. ....
There wei*e send-off parties by the dozen
to the people who were just about to climb
aboard the Aorangi for Ottawa and the Con-
ference. You couldn’t make one party of it,
because it’s a queer mixture, this expedi-
tion; delegates and their personal belong-
ings ; official and paid consultants and their
belongings; semi-official and unpaid con-
sultants, who mostly haven’t any belong-
ings at all; experts to devil for the consul-
tants ; experts who go because their em-
ployers think that something may be in the
wind that their bosses would like to know
about, in case there should be any loose
strings that may be pulled one way or the
other. As usual, one of the biggest lun-
cheons was the Royal Empire Society’s, at
which Mrs. Bruce listened to the speeches
in a smartly-cut black cloth costume and a
small black hat. Mrs. Gullett went with her
husband, Mr. Bruce’s offsider on the dele-
gation proper.
One time it looked as though only one
professor would belong to the party. But
besides Professor Melville, who will devil
for E. G. Riddle, the Commonwealth Bank’s
governor, Professor Shann joined the pilgrim
band to watch the interests of the Bank of
N. S. Wales.
Somewhere about SOO people walked up
the gangways of the Otranto, which the
Orient Co. had lent for the Mayoress’s
Winter Clothing Appeal party. When you
got on board you could play bridge in the
smoke-room, dance to the music of the Can-
berra’s band on deck “D,” listen to opera-
stars Grace Angelau and Mollie de Gunst
(in this musicianly group was Agnes
Caspers) in the lounge, or just mooch around
greeting friends near the entrance to the
saloon.
But whatever you started off to do, you
finished up in the saloon eating cakes and
drinking tea, served with a pageantry of
fashion, ranging from 1823 to 1932. Manne-
quins walked in on the right, up between
rows of tables on to the tiny stage, the
different periods announced by a white-
satined, golden-sashed herald. (Afterwards
he presented flowers to Lady Isaacs, the
Mayoress, Grace Angelau and Molly de
Gunst, and a floral horseshoe to Captain
Staunton, of the Otranto.)
According to this show, trousers are defi-
nitely here. The ski-ing, tennis, aviation
and golf kits all included them. The up-to-
the-minute golf outfit with its plus-fours
was serviceable, but the ski-ing girl and the
Hying girl called forth a prolonged “ha!”
of admiration. Then, of course, there were
the beach’ suits, most of them backless and a
few not far from frontless —something about
the size of a handkerchief, the ends tied
behind the waist, and supported by narrow
neckbands. The cocktail suits and evening
pyjamas all had their little coats. One of
the most fascinating day frocks was of
maize georgette, inlet with panels of lace
and carrying long, tight lace sleeves. With
this was Avorn a mushroomy hat, the crown
garlanded with buttercups. Evening frocks
called for the most luxurious fur wraps. A
bride and four ’maids, the bride in white,
complete with’ A*eil, the ’maids in amber
satins, with honey-colored crinoline wide-
brimmed hats, made a colorful finish to a
show that had been admirably directed by
R. G. Lamb, of British Australian Productions.
_ The Mayoress was helped in the recep-
tion by the Orient’s general manager, D. L.
Dowdell, N. S. Wales manager W. C.
Andrews and Mrs. Andrews, Miss Shepherd
Smith and Captain H. G. Staunton, com-
mander of the boat. The Justly Rawlings
couple (it was Anthony Horderns who sup-
plied the frocks) and the hon. secretaries
(Mrs. David Cohen and Mrs. Albert Little-
john) were in the official party.
The big local event of the week was the
G.-G.’s opening of the Sheep Show, to which
came also Sir Philip. Last year we didn’t
have a show, and this year, too, we would
have had to go without only for the willing-
ness of competitors to forego prize money.
The town is sprinkled with sheepmen, and
they and city brother travelled out in fair
numbers to see the best display of purebreds
in Australia. But there was none of the
hearty entertaining of other days. Aarons’s
Exchange, which used to be thronged when
the pure merino came to town, felt scarcely
a ripple.
To the Alasonic Ball this year came the
G.-G. and Lady Isaacs and 39 white-clad debs.
There was the usual arch of steel, only this
time it was interlaced with roses, all held
aloft by Right Worshipful Brothers in full
regalia. Under this walked the official party,
to which Grand Alaster Aubrey Halloran was
host. In the group were Mrs. Stevens, in
jade satin; the Alayoral Walders —Mrs
Walder in leaf-green wool laces—and Mar-
jorie Halloran, whose cyclamen chiffons
swung a short velvet-trimmed cape. Mrs.
P. C. Marlow in graceful champagne laces
presented the debs., among whom was the
State Premier’s young daughter Gwen. It
was at this stage that Lady Isaacs’s beauti-
ful frock was best seen. It was of oyster
satin moulded to the figure, and was finished
with a bustle bow. One youngster asked
the G.-G. to autograph the ribbon on her
flowers; the other 38 rallied round, and soon
each girl was holding the ribbon tau-t while
Sir Isaac made his mark.
Up on the first floor of the Queen Victoria
Alarkets you will find the Lady Mayoress’s
Clothing Appeal Fund. Here parcels of
blankets, clothing and hoots are made up and
sent to the various benevolent societies; for
nothing is given direct —each case must be
vouched for by some institution, and to that
institution the parcel is sent for delivery.
Wherever it is possible new clothes are given,
to help the wearer’s self-respect. A number
of the retail shops have co-operated to such
an extent that voluntary workers are able to
keep the sewing-machines running at full
speed. But although the response has been
so great, the demand has been greater, and
money (no matter in what small amounts),
clothes or materials will be enthusiastically
welcomed.
Here is a picture of Nelle M. Scanlan,
whose novel “Pencarrow” was lately pub-
lished by Jar-
rolds, London.
“The Top
Step” and
“Primrose
Hill” are other
novels of hers;
the former had
a tribute
from H. G.
Wells himself.
Miss Scanlan
is well known
in newspaper
offices in
M a o r i 1 a nd,
where she
broke-in her
pen. But there
is very little
of the world
she hasn’t seen,
as before mak-
ing her home
in London she
travelled for ten yearsi, two of them spent
in America; and Russia and “the East” she
has also studied on the spot. Photo, by
Paul Tanqueray, London.
Young Stribling, who arrived from the
U.S.A. last week, has created, a tremendous
sensation among the feminine frequenters of
the Australia, where he and his father are
staying. He doesn’t in the least resemble
the pugilist of tradition; what he resembles
is the latest style in movie star —Hollywood
model. Six feet in his socks, straight-
featured and square-jawed, with pleasing
teeth and wavy dark hair, he would con-
stitute the complete answer to some lonely
local maiden’s prayer, but for the fact that
he is already married and the owner of a
family.
The Stadium directors gave a reception in
his honor in the big room over the Australia
Winter Garden on Thursday, and there were
several ladies present, as there are these times
at every Stadium contest. Stuart Hervey
was in the chair and spoke eloquently about
the ennobling influences of noxing. So did
the Henry Braddon knight—he doesn’t look
it, but he was a great football and boxer
in his youth—and the evergreen Hugh D.
Mclntosh.
In a burgundy crepe-de-Chine frock, a
black cloth coat, fur-trimmed, a tight-fitting
small black hat, and carrying a posy of
violets, Gladys Owen, 0.8. E., exchanged
vows with John D. Moore at St. Michael’s
at half-past ten one morning last week. The
bride’s father, Justice Langer Owen, gave
her away, and Mrs. Owen poured morning
tea to the small group of friends and rela-
tives who had been at the ceremony. Bride-
groom is an architect, and both are members
of the Society of Artists.
Strath, near Bathurst, which Mrs. Stewart
Jamieson lent the John I). Moores for their
honeymoon, would be called a Dower House
in Britain. It is half a mile or so on the
river side of Mount Stewart, which old
General SteAvart, Mrs. Jamieson’s grand-
father, built in imitation of his ancestral
castle in Scotland nearly a century ago. The
bride has many friends in the neighborhood
—Brooke Moores, Lees and McPhillamys.
Mrs. Kelly is returning to Europe with
part of her family next month, and VVirian,
which hasn’t been so cheery since the Par-
burys had it six years ago, will revert to
the O. E. Friends. Her younger boy is going
up to Oxford soon, and she will reopen the
flat in Florence, which is where Patricia,
her married girl, lives.
W. H. Kelly, ex-M.P.. returned on the
Alarella after six years in London and Paris.
He might go back to Federal politics if a
chance offered. Meanwhile, he is staying
at the Australian Club and indulging liis
hobby of writing stories and plays.
Looking at you from this Dorothy Weld-
ing photograph is Millie Hughes (in private
lite Airs. vv.
Moran), who
so sympatheti-
cally played
the rdle of
Mimi in “La
Bohfeme” last
week. Miss
Hughes, a
pupil of
Roland Foster,
is quite well
known to Syd
ney concert
audiences, and
it is not the
first time she
has sung in
opera either.
She has ap-
peared in
many of the
Cons ervator-
ium opera pro-
ductions, and
many will remember her fine work as Etain
in “The Immortal Hour.”
The engagement of Seppy Alison and the
handsome daughter of Lou Davies, which
was hinted at in this Letter some months
ago, has been formally announced. They
met on board ship early in the year on the
way to Sydney, and have been much together
in London. Both are going to be extremely
rich one day. He is the only son of Jim
Alison, who married the eldest Burdekin
heiress 40-odd years ago; and her father
made so much money here in the days when
the motor-car industry was booming that he
had to get rid of some of it in the form
of settlements on his sons. Seppy Alison
was in a Guards regiment when the war
began, was captured by the Germans at an
early stage in the proceedings, and spent
the ensuing years in a prison camp.
An interesting personality at the Sheep
Show and Rosehill races last week was
Rupert Greene, the V.R.C. starter, who
some Victorians say is the best-liked man
in the Melbourne Club., He is Melbourne
society’s wittiest conversationalist, and man-
ages to sustain his reputation, year in
year out, without hurting anybody’s feel-
ings. A daughter married Keith Murdoch
of the Melbourne “Herald.”
The death at Yass of Mother M. Xavier,
at 81, breaks the last link connecting the
Convent of Mercy at Yass and its daughter-
houses with the Irish homeland. Late in
1875 six Sisters of Mercy left Rochford
Br’dge.West Meath, for the bush country of
southern N. S. Wales; Sister Xavier Was
the last surviving of them. She it was who
formed the branch houses at Murrumburrali
and West Wyalong; and her last work was
to mother the aborigines at Yass, -which
work she continued until two or three years
ago.
The nurses of two hospitals are in mourn-
ing. Those of Prince Alfred are sorrowing
over the death of Sister Margaret Kitley,
who through her days of sickness had held
the love she had won as a nursing sister.
She was a daughter of Canon and Mrs.
Kitley of Raymond Terrace. And those of
the Coast are grieving over the too-early
death of Diana Brackenridge, who developed
t.b. at the hospital, and died after months
of patient suffering at Wentworth Falls.
She was one of those whom this Letter had
in its mind when it lately begged hospital
authorities not to put very young nurses
to care for t.b. patients; older nurses seem
to be much less liable to infection.
Charlie Fairfax, whose brothers Geoff and
Jim have died since he was here last, arrived
by the Otranto. Old-timers Avho remember
him when he and his wife, who was Ewan
Frazer’s sister, were living at Caerleon, on.
Bellevue Hill, say it’s amazing mow little he
has changed in looks and ways. He spends
most of his time in England playing goiii.
collecting china and pictures, and meeting
friends at the Oriental Club, which has a
number of Australians, on its membership
list. His son, Griffytli, the poet, who repre-
sented Norwich in the House of Commons
for five years, is one of the most brilliant
Australians that England has taken over
from this country.
An unusual decorative note was struck at
Scots’ Old Boys’ dance. Tall thistles, gum-
tips and the Black Wateh tartan mingled
with such effect that congratulations poured
on Byram Mansell, himself an old boy.
originator and carrier-out of the idea. Tin-
heather atmosphere was intensified by the
Glengarry caps worn by the dancers, and
the Black Watch tartan wristlets which
committee members sported. But don’t think
for a moment the school’s colors, blue and
gold, were neglected—blue and gold parch-
ment shades were on the lights, and the
pennant of blue and gold hung on the wall
opposite the door. Mrs. Cox, wife of E. B.
Cox, president of the Union, wore a silver
lame coat over her backless and bustled
white lace frock. In their big party w T ere
representatives from all the G. P. schools
and Scots’ own Parents’ and Friends’
Association.
Not a bad idea, either, was the Victorian
tippet, of velvet mostly, which many of the
nurses of the Royal Alexandra wore to
their dance at the Blaxland Galleries. These
tippets are fascinating affairs (and cosy,
too, on a cold night), especially when they
button high up to the neck, like that worn
by Joan Evans with her trailing black net
frock. Eileen Bell’s matched her powder-
blue satin frock and was fur-trimmed.
Doctor-knight Clubbe’s lady, wearing pastel
floral chiffons and a gold embroidered coat,
was one of the official party hostessed by
Matron Kircelore, in whose frock apricot
net and taffeta was allied with much success.
Brisbane brevities:—
A civic reception awaited the new Governor and
Lady Orme Wilson, with daughter Marjorie, at the
City Hall. The party was fully choral; Ted England
and Beatrice Pugh sang and Harry Borrodale gave
patriotic elocutions. A noteworthy feature was the
applause with which ex-Premier Moore was greeted
when he rose to speak. The Lud Mayor presided;
Lady Wilson was in vellum with a green feather fan.
A recent foursome on the beautiful Yeerongpilly
golf links consisted of the Governor, the C.J., S. P.
J. Macrossan and knight Edward Macartney.
Nineteen debs, were presented to their Exes, at
the Mater Misericordise Sick Children’s Hospital ball
held in the City Hall. Archbishop Duhig helped
to receive the v.-r. party. Lady Wilson wore black
mariette and a diamond necklet with a diamond
filet on her hair; Marjorie AVilson was in green
with a floral design in pink. His Ex. danced with
the Mayoress, who was in snowdrift lace, and her
Ex. danced with the Mayor.
At the Country Women’s welcome Lady Wilson
wore black satin and cream needlerun lace; her
daughter was in mustard color, with royal blue
scarf; the Mayoress wore brown with a skunk collar;
Mrs. Graham Mylne was in brown; dove grey was
chosen by Mrs. Peterson and navy by Mrs. Moore.
It was mentioned that there are 330 branches of the
C.W.A. in the State.
St. George’s, Windsor, saw the wedding of Samuel
Nixon and Dulcie Cameron. The bride, who was
given away by her father, wore ivory bridal satin
and ’broidered tulle veil. Glen and Beryl Cameron
’maided in apricot georgette. The ’moon rises on a
tour of North Queensland.
In the absence, through illness, of M. Forrest.
Stanhope Hobday read her paper on “Literary and
Artistic Lights I Have Known” before a meeting
of the Authors’ and Artists' Society. Thelma
Champion and Emily Bulcock spoke on Australia’s
last year’s literary output. The Bamard-Eldershaw
“Green Memory” was reviewed by Mrs. Champion;
some of Mary Gilmore’s and James Devaney’s verse
by Mrs. Bulcock.
The Queensland Press Institute welcomed the
Governor and Lady Wilson in Rowe’s banqueting hall.
Feeling references were made by Mrs. Young to the
vacant chairs of the late Sanderson Taylor and C. A.
Macfarlane. Lady Wilson wore flecked brown; her
daughter, bottle-green.
Hot-water bottles and rugs were part of the
equipment of those who filled Oremorne when the
Repertory Society staged “Many Waters.” Beryl
Telford did well as Freda Barcaldine, in nut-brown;
Dolly Sales was played by Darley Cooper, in wine
color; George Eaton was, as always, excellent.
Rhoda Felgate produced and Dr. J. V. Duhig stage-
managed.
Mother Andeon Fitzgerald, daughter of the late
Thomas Fitzgerald, died at All Hallows this week.
She was one of the first Queensland girls to enter
the Order of the Sisters of Mercy, 55 years ago,
and was head of several of the branch houses of the
Order.


How to Fit Yourself
for Life’s Fight
It is up to you to say whether you will be
nervous, weak, sickly, or whether you shall
glow with vitality and strength. It is now
possible to prolong your life and rule your
health just as you govern your actions. You
can throw off the shackles of advancing age
—step back into youth—become virile, vigor-
ous. You can rekindle your old energies,
put more vim into your work and play, and
make every organ of your body act as Natur?
intended.
Modern methods of eating, lack of exercise
cause weakness and flabbiness of the abdo-
minal organs. Particles of decaying food
waste are not completely evacuated. This
waste encrusts and accumulates in the
creases of the intestine, and harbors disease-
breeding germs, which enter the system and
pollute the blood. Result is dreaded self-
poisoning ( autoxima ), from which nine out
of ten suffer —caused by hidden and unsus-
pected constipation. This self-poisoning is
the origin of constipation, headaches, indi-
gestion. gas in stomach and bowels, catarrh,
weakness, rheumatism, neuritis, eczema,
pimples, etc., and hosts of other ailments.
You and practically everyone else is more
or less in the grip of autoxima. But you
can change this by washing away the germ-
laden mass with COLOSEPTIC. It promptly
rids vou of self-poisoning. Gently, without
griping, COLOSEPTIC loosens and dis-
solves off the encrusted waste, and then
passes it smoothly out of the body. It rids
the system of all circulatory impurities
through the other outlets provided for that
purpose—the kidneys—pores of the .skin—
and respiratory apparatus. You can get
COLOSEPTIC in regular full-size jars, from
all chemists. Send 1/- stamps or postal
note to COLOSEPTIC CO.. LTD., Dept.
G 4. 24 Jamieson Street, Sydney, for a
Special Demonstration ,1 ar of COLOSEPTIC,
and the interesting book “Autoxima.”
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
The Melbourne Hunt Club held their first
race meeting at Moonee Valley in mid-week,
and many of the younger set were there,
smartly-tailored. In the wintry weather fur
coats, some very lovely ones, had a day out.
Mr. C. C. Moore, deputy-master of the Mel-
bourne Hunt Club, was accompanied by
Mrs. Moore, in brown and fawn speckled
tweed suit topped by a beret of the same
material. E. C. Robertson, master of the
Oaklands H. C., brought Mrs. Robertson,
wrapped in a musquash coat allied to a
black felt hat. Dr. A. E. Syme, master of
Yarra Glen and Lilydale H. C-., was there;
also Mr. W. Magennis, deputy-master of the
Oaklands, along with other pillars of the
chase: Gaud Mayor Gengoult Smith is
another hunting enthusiast who attended
the meeting.
After the first race at Williamstown on
Saturday a cold rain swept the stands and
lawns became sodden. The most comfortable
spot was the committee’s dining-room, deco-
rated with golden-brown chrysanthemums,
blue lupins, carnations and pansies for the
four-o’clock tea-brew. The only seasonable
covering for the human frame was a leather
raincoat lined with fur, but none was to
be seen. Judging from whispered conversa-
tions, however, it seemed that many women
had been thoughtful enough to equip them-
selves with “two of everything” beneath
musquash or kolinsky or tweed coats.
A proud girl was Dorothy Shiel, whose
Precocious won the Williamstown Steeple-
chase. The young rider trains her own
.jumpers and had schooled this one over the
fences herself, so the credit was largely
hers. The miss looked attractive in a sul-
phur-colored tweed frock and felt hat, with
a dark green leather sports jacket. The
Gaud Mayor was there; the chairman of
the Williamstown Racing Club brought Mrs.
Liston, in tones of brown and amber, tweed
coat, fur-collared, and a pretty velvet toque.
Mrs. Ben Chaffey came with Miss McPher-
son ; Mrs. A. V. Ivewney wore bottle-green
coat with brown fur collar and matching
felt hat. Dr. and Mrs. J. G. Sheahan, the
Percy Blacltbourn couple, Mr. and Mrs. T.
M. Burke and Mrs. T. Burke, Mrs Alec
McCracken and Mrs. P. G. Play were others
glimpsed between showers.
Dame Sybil Thorndike, wearing the
smartest of turnouts of brown with a short
coat of sulphur hue and a small shiny brown
straw hat, took tea the other day with over
150 members of the Lyceum Club. A bright
and fluent speaker, site remarked that the
two things that have impressed her most
in her short stay in Australia were our wild
flowers and the amount of work done by
women in their various organisations. Inci-
dentally, she paid a tribute to our florists,
“who can fashion the most charming bou-
quets of berries and leaves”—an accomplish-
ment she had never seen anywhere else. It
was when speaking of women “getting things
done” that she raised a smile by expressing
a fear that this spirit was largely responsible
for St. Joan’s end. “Poor dear, she simply
wouldn’t let any of those men sit back and
be satisfied —they had to be up and doing.”
Instead of giving the usual invitation
Mayoral Ball this year, the Mayor of Essen-
don and Mrs. Reid made the function at the
local Town Hall a subscription one, handing
over the proceeds to the district’s unemploy-
ment relief fund. Some 600 filled the ball-
room and a score of debs, entered by way
of the stage, which was transformed into an
old-world garden. English landscape trees
formed the background and there were beds of
gay blossoms scattered about. The newly-
fledged wore pretty white frocks and car-
ried posies of orange-colored marigolds, ber-
ries and autumn foliage. Their bouquets
and dainty pearl and silver chain necklets
were mementoes of their coming-out from
the Mayoress herself. Mrs. Reid’s gown of
old-gold velvet and her bunch of Duchess
of York pansies matched the color scheme.
Mrs. Reid, who is a sister of the Alex-
ander Peacock lady, had with her another
sister, Mrs. PI. Boyd B’laxmau, becomingly
gowned in ruby-colored velvet, and her niece,
Jean Horsfall, who wore silken lace of
golden lime hue. Town-clerk Wellington
was the hon. sec. of the ball; Mrs. Welling-
ton was in pale green moire with a coat
of bottle-green velvet. Mrs. John Golds-
worthy was in dark green taffeta; Mrs. A.
F. Showers was there in black lace; Mrs. A.
V. Pliskens had some slipper orchids as
shoulder spray on her black gown; Mrs.
P. M. Salmon was in a frock of smoke-grey
georgette; Mrs. J. B. Hunt’s upholstery was
flame-colored satin; daughter Phyllis came
in emerald-green satin. Dr. and Mrs. S. G.
Strahan, Dr. and Mrs. A. Gordon, Dr. and
Mrs. R. Park, she in a delightful brocaded
tourmaline-pink taffeta frock, the Rex Old-
ham couple, and J. 0. Dillon, M.L.A., and
Mrs. Dillon were others present.
The Norman Brookes couple put on a
five-o’clock tea gathering at their home at
South Yarra for a welcome to Phyllis Best
on her return from overseas. The hostess,
who had her three daughters as support,
wore a gown of grey satin and black velvet,
with black felt hat. Miss Best, who was
accompanied by her mother, wore all black,
with a touch of brightness in a tricolored
scarf.
The Proscenium Club staged an excellent
performance of Iladdon Chambers’s “The Sav-
ing Grace” on Saturday evening, in aid of
the Ministering Children’s League. Numbers
of charmingly clad damsels vended flowers
and sweets for the good cause. The Irvine
lady was present; Mrs. Scarlett, Mrs. Harry
Tavlor, Mrs. G. Gardner and Mrs. Hugo
Wertheim joined her in the official box.
Godfrey Cass produced the piece, in which
an outstanding success was scored by Jos.
Ambler as Binn Corbett, the officer who
eloped with his colonel’s wife (Marguerite
Cockerton). Mavis Terrell, as niece Susan,
wore a couple of delightful gowns ; Francis
Dillon, usually a songbird, made an impres-
sive Mrs. Guilford. Those old favorites of
the days of melodrama Mr. and Mrs. Bland
Holt were among those who witnessed the
performance.
At Melba Hall,, lately, the University Con-
servatorium Students’ Club mingled in the
dance. Thither came Professor Bernard
Heinze and his fiance, Valerie Hennessy, her
biscuit-colored lace gown topped with a
crimson velvet coatee. Their wedding takes
place at the chapel of Newman College on
July 6. The Hennessy lady is giving a
late afternoon party at No. 9 Darling-street
on the previous day.
St. Kilda Town Hall saw the yearly dance
engineered by members of the Methodist
I,a dies’ College Old Collegians’ Club. Eleven
of the just-left-school brigade in dainty white
gowns made their bow to the club’s presi-
dent, Mrs. V. G. Anderson, in black chiffon
and filmy lace. Then the bevy and their
partners stepped a measure. The hon. sec-
retary of the 0.C.C., Edith Barker, was in
the offing in upholstery of pottery-blue satin.
Eva Hayler, in apricot-pink lace, and Nancy
Lee, in draped vellum-tinted velvet, were
the hon. secretaries. Official guests were
the president of the M.L.C., the Rev. J. W.
Grove, and the head-mistress, Mrs. R.
Landen. »
At the annual show by artists and crafts-
women of the Lyceum' Club the walls of
the big reception-room were hung with pic-
tures ; and some excellent stitchery and
pottery were to be seen. Mrs. Woodruff, wife
of Professor H. A. .Woodruff, said the con-
gratulatory words. Among exhibits that
caught the eye were a set of crocheted mats in
filet lace design, and a stool featuring some
lovely tapestry by Mary Campbell. Katie
Liddle, a well-known pianist, showed a
white bridge cloth, embroidered in original
design of poinsettias in natural color. Dr.
Younger Ross, whose chair seat was much
admired, evidently took tapestry as a second
string to medicine. Margaret Alston showed
some fine examples of book-binding. Rose
Rigg introduced a fresh theme in her stained-
glass window designs. Wee pictures in
colored enamels by Mrs. Vale Gilfillau, and
miniatures by Agnes Paterson were other
notable bits of art. Mrs. J. C. V. Behan
made her pottery interesting by showing it
from the very earliest stages to the finished
article. Among the artists represented were
Mrs. J. T. Tweddle, who showed landscape,
still-life and a very clever portrait; Mrs.
Lakeland, Esther Paterson, Jessie Trail! and
Miss Spowers. Mrs. Russell Jackson sent
along a trio of her clever personalities in
clay. The only nude study, an attractive
water-color, was by Inez Abbott, who has
lately had a couple of pictures accepted by
one of the Paris salons.
Another young artist, a graduate of the
National Gallery, looks from out this Page
in Sybil Craig, a former Toorak College
student, only
daughter o f
the M. F.
Craig couple
of East St.
Kilda. S h c
is holding this
week at the
Afhenseum
Gallery ho r
first lone
show, which
covers still-
life studies in
oils and por-
traits in
pastel. She
hopes to make
portraiture her
chief work; of
her sitters for
this exhibi-
tion are etcher
John Shirlow
and Knight
Edward Mackenzie. Unlike most artists,
Miss Craig herself has been a subject for
such well-known painters as Rupert Bunny
and Leslie Wilkie. She lias Titian hair and
the coloring that goes with it. The picture
is from the Broothorn studio.
The draw of the Ball of Youth, on July
6, at the Plaza, is the chance for six of the
dancers, three girls and three young men, to
secure a contract with Efttee Films. Mr.
F. AY. Thring has promised to give a screen
and voice test to a selected half-dozen.
Knight John Longstaff, Beatrice Day, Mrs.
Norman Brookes (one of the organisers).
Gregan McMahon. Ray Fisher, Cecil Scott
and Mr. Thring himself will select the like-
lies. The Melbourne Legacy Club, the Big
Brother movement and the Australian Boys’
Employment movement will benefit from the
proceeds of the function.
Phyllis Clark, daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
J. Kenneth Clark, of Malvern-road, was
married last week to Captain Clement Grey,
of the 47th Sikhs. The early-morning cere-
mony took place at St. George’s Church,
Malvern, the bride wearing her travelling
suit of tweed, with furs and a felt hat.
The honeymoon is being spent in Queens-
land and the couple will leave at the end of
the year for India.
Snow on tlie highlands, rain, hail and
cold winds in most other places summarise
recent weather conditions. Yet, even when
the city streets are running bankers and the
wind whistles round every corner, women per-
sist in dragging suitcases to sales and lining
up for the early-door morning rush at the
picture-shows. Of course there are seasonable
recreations, too; over 500 people motored out
the other Sunday to indulge in snowballing
and ski-ing at Marysville and beyond. Snow
sports at Buffalo, Mt. Hotham and there-
about are drawing week-end crowds.
Trinity College held its annual ball at
Wattle Path, St. Kilda, on a stormy night,
even the dancers found it cold. In the
absence of the warden, Dr. J. C. V. Behan,
through illness, the Rev. T. M. Robinson
(chaplain) deputised and with Mrs. Behan
received the guests. ’Twas largely a dance
of nicely-upholstered youth, satin and lace
being favorite materials for flared robes that
just swept silken shoes with shiny buckles.
The master of Ormond. Mr. D. K. Picken,
was accompanied by his wife, in draperies
of lace of cornflower blue; Miss E. Joske,
principal of Janet Clarke Hall, wore a chiffon
gown of emerald shade.
Mrs. 11. S. Gullett, who is accompanying
her husband to the Ottawa .Conference,
drank a farewell cup of tea at the Alex-
andra Club, the party being hostessed by
Mrs. Norman McLean and Mrs. Stanley
Hammond. Hoses, wattle and jonquils deco-
rated the reception rooms. Mrs. Hammond s
daughters, Pat and. Joyce Hammond, and
Peggy Essington King lent assistance in
entertaining the guests, who included Mrs.
Stanley Bruce (also bound for Ottawa),
Mrs. Colin Fraser, who is shortly off to
Canada, and Mrs. Dudley Trenchard, who
sails for England at an early date.
Mi*. J. P. Bainbridge, registrar of the
University, is about the only official these
days who gets an occasional thrill from an
unexpected big cheque in his mail. Since
1921 an anonymous patron of learning—
believed to be a woman —has been regularly
sending the Uni. handsome donations through
a bank. The money is never earmarked for
any particular purpose. Last week brought
a gift of £lOO, making the mystery benefac-
tions £2150 in all.
A Broothorn camera here depicts Premier
Stanley Argyle’s lady. She is a daughter of
the late
Thomas Lewis,
formerly of the
Bank of Aus-
tralasia i u
Tassy. She was
some time ago
on the commit-
tee of the Lady
North co te
Free Kinder-
garten, but
now devotes
her charitable
energies to the
Alfred Ho s-
pital, being a
vice - president
o f t h e South
Yarra - Toorak
branch of the
auxiliary. The
Argyles have
two sons and
two daughters,
the latter being Mrs. Esmond Lillies, ot
Geelong, and Mrs. E. W. Hill, of Glenlonan,
in the Gippsland district.
The younger bunch of Melbourne artists
went to the chase for their decoration ideas
for the first of painters’ dances of the season
at St. Peter’s Hall, Eastern Hill. Certainly
they who muster to hunt-club runs in the
winter might have failed to recognise in the
weird futurist wooden-like dogs the hounds
that pursue bold Reynard over hill and dale,
or themselves in the wild woolly-looking
riders, but the atmosphere was there. H.
L. Fern, the lion, sec., was the master of the
revels (and the hounds), and called with
his horn the variedly dressed company to the
hop. He had able support from Mrs. Mar-
jorie Fitzgerald; Misses M. Dyring and J.
Burberry, candy girls; S. Atyeo, a sailor;
and F. Noonan, a fierce bushranger.
Mrs. J. M. Pittendrigh and her son David
gave a dance on Friday night in honor of
Sylvia Lawrance and David Syme, who are
to be wed this week. The pretty bride-elect
mingled in her gown vellum-toned satin
and lace ; the hostess was garbed in a lovely
shade of pink satin, with a coatee of the
same. Miss M. Kennedy, a sister of Mrs.
Pittendrigh, wore black lace. The floral
decorations of the reception-rooms were car-
ried out in the pale blue and gold of Geelong
School.
Members of the local auxiliaries of the
R.Y.1.8. —there are over 50 branches around
Melbourne —forgathered for their annual
dance at the Ormond Hall. Mrs. J. Frost,
president of the combined auxiliaries, was
there with her husband, and the junior
auxiliaries, Malvern and Brighton, came in
full force. There was keen interest in
the lottery for a cycle, presented by Mr.
and Mrs. Roberts, of Moonee Ponds; the
amount raised for the institute in this way
was very little under £2OO. all in threepenny
tickets. Matron Briggs deputised 'for Mr.
S W. Hedger, the superintendent of the
R.Y.1.8.
Adelaide events: —
The Goodman lady, with her two daughters, Joan
and Zell, and Pattie Smeaton are off for a trip to
England.
At St. Andrew’s Church, Walkerville, the other day,
Nancy, daughter of Agent-General Barwell, was
married to E. B. Farmer, of Barmera. Mr. E. A.
Brooks, of Buckland Park, gave the bride away;
the reception, at which only a few old friends were
present, was held at the residence of the bride’s
godmother, the Stirling lady. Cream satin cut on
Empire line and a Brussels-lace veil were worn by
the bride. Bridesmaids Barbara Brooks and Marjorie
Futcher were frocked in delphinium-blue georgette,
with blue velvet leaves as a bandeau. Ted Miller
was best man, and Victor Wilson was groomsman.
The E. W. Holden couple entertained about 150
of the younger set at their residence, Kalymna,
Dequetville-terrace, Kent Town. Dancing and supper
were in marquees on the lawn. The hostess looked
charming in prune faille, and her two daughters,
Margaret and Nancy, were in green lace and Lido-
blue ring velvet respectively. Red japonica deco-
rated the supper tables.
To raise money for St. Mary’s Mission of Hope,
the old scholars of Woodlands C. of E. Girls’
Grammar School gave “The Importance of Being
Earnest” an airing in the school theatre. The
masculine roles were cleverly sustained by the
girls, Alison Murray and Nan Gossc being specially
successful. The play will be repeated in town.
Betty, the youngest daughter of the Allan Mac-
Farlanes, of Lake Alexandrina, has become engaged
to Henry Youngman, of Casterton, Victoria.
The matron (Miss L. Daw) and nurses of the
Adelaide Hospital gave a cheery dance in the
nurses’ quarters, Frome-road, many of the medical
staff being among the guests.
The combined Insurance Ball at the Palais Royal
was a crowded function, over 700 being present.
Vice-president A. V. Le Page and his wife enter-
tained the heads of the different ecompanies, Mrs.
Le Page wearing a pink silk lace toilette.
Swan-side sociabilities: —
Hockey fans and players stepped it with a will
in the Parish Hall, Claremont, at a frisk to aid the
hockey carnival fund. Mrs. Giles wore black and
Mrs. Max Rutter, rain-washed sky-blue; rhinestones
glistened- upon Mrs. Jo Stevenson’s periwinkle
chiffons; Mrs. Rex Norrie was in emerald-green;
Mary Farrelly slipped a platinum lace coat over
her lame frock; Peggy Gillespie’s black chiffons
were interspersed with lace; Billy Atkinson’s showcr-
of-hail net was pink and befrilled; Phyllis Thiel
displayed, berry-red georgettes; Barbara Qlauert,
black lace draped over emerald satin.
Vera, third daughter of the Bellcvue-terraee
Willie Saws, has plighted her troth with Conrad,
son of Mrs. L. B. Chase.
Nancie Armstrong and Peter Rockingham were
married upon the wedding anniversary of the bride’s
parents by the Rev. Clairs, who had performed the
first ceremony. The bridal gown of ivory satin was
embellished with a shirred-satin train and a veil
of Brussels net and lace. All-white clad attendants,
Pat Saw, Isabel Greig and Mrs. Bob Leiper, wore
floral head-dresses to match their armfuls of pale
pink roses.
Old Girls of Perth College forgathered to dance
in the Y.A.L. hall. Mrs. Russell Smith, in a black
frock and white-furred black jacket, represented the
sisters. Florence Armstrong, in pillar-box red and
a twinkle of diamente, and Marjorie Stoddart, in
blue, were to the fore with the organising. Kitty
Macartney wore wedgewood-blues; Pippin Reid
danced to a tune of pink and green chifforis;
Flower Southwood wrapped herself in black ring
velvet; Plyllis Brazier’s laces blushed a faint pink;
Joan Mitchell chose waterlily-green; and Theone
Couch was a youthful maid in her vermilion ninon.
The Uni. Boat Club put its best foot forward
in honor of the victorious inter-Stace oarsmen. The
coveted Oxford and Cambridge Cup, brought from
the Apple Isle, backed by the boat club flag, was
on view in the refectory, transformed for the evening
into a ballroom. Prof. Beasley’s better half kept
out the wind’s icy fingers with her velvet coat;
Mildred and Nancy Le Souef wore cornflower-blue
and peach-pink respectively; Pat Sanderson’s tangee
chiffons were dashed with black and white; a big
pink velvet bow bobbed upon Raina Rotenburg’s
black laces; Yvonne Brinkley chose white satin, and
her pal, Sheila Clement, satin of a lilac tint; Ray
McClintock trailed an angel’s skin of delicate
Chinese blue.
Repertory folk excelled themselves at their party,
a welcome-home for Molly Ick, who has spent a
year in the Fog, and a good-bye for Joan Good, who
has looked after Molly’s secretarial job. A skit on
the movies, “Wild Nell of the Plains,” was a breezy
bit of originality; a male ballet gave the audience
convulsions; a slice of Yankee comedy and a charade
disguised as melodrama got a heap of applause.
Cecilia Brennan is packing up for a trip to
Ceylon, where she will visit her sister, Mrs. Peter
Vigne, who lives near Kandy. Cynthia Dunman is
also collecting featherweight clothing. Her destina-
tion is India.
Florence Renou and Sydney Elliott were made
one in St, Mary’s, Colin-street. The bridal velvets
were cut with a high waist-line and elbow puffs to
the long tight sleeves. A cascade of tulle veil
descended around a sheaf of golden roses. The
three attendants wore flowing georgettes made with
a caped and sashed effect. Bride's sister Yvonne
wore poppy-pink; another sister, Mrs. Eric Arm-
strong, was in flame, and bridegroom’s sister, Mrs.
Roy Saw, was in orange. Sheaves of gladioli to tone
with each gown were carried.
Speck items:—
The social workers who run the Girls’ Industrial
School have been celebrating the institution’s birth-
day ; it was founded 7 0 years ago and the first
patroness was Lady Gore-Brown, wife of the then
Governor. Guests brought gifts in the shape of
household linen and a musical programme made
entertainment during the afternoon.
A Tasmanian, Capt. M. J. Clarke, who married a
popular Hobart girl, Rhona Lyons, has figured in
the Birthday Honors List as a Companion of the
Order of the Indian Empire. He is a Deputy Com-
missioner for the district of Tharrawaddy, in Burmah,
and he and his wife are looking forward to a
long furlough in the Speck very soon.
Sue Cragg, one of Launceston’s most popular girls,
is home from a two-year trip to Europe. On her
return journey she stayed in Rangoon with her
married sister, Mrs. James Forrest. She was in
Switzerland for the 1931 skating and bob-sleighing
championships, and had a glimpse of Vienna, Paris,
Berlin, Bruges and Prague in her itinerary.
Betty Giblin has been renewing old friendships
with ex-Tasmanians in the Big Smoke. Among
others, she has met and stayed with Nan and Jan
Masterman, who have a smart flat in London and
a houseboat on the Thames.
Sybil Sale, who has decided to try her wings in
England, sailed in the Ballarat with Mrs. J. E.
Thorp, and several other Tasmanians. Among them
were the T. A. Gepps, Charles Benson, the singer,
and E. L. Roberts.


Soon ~ the calm
of the lagoon
and the placid
stillness of sun-
enchanted South
Sea Isles.
Mm
'7 MB .
V
(fill!
9 rr
**wsrn§sSS
mm*
&T ’'■■!
RAROTONGA and Papeete, with their languid tropical appeal,
never fail to charm their visitors. Within easy reach of Sydney
by modern trans-Pacific liners, their fresh, unspoiled loveliness makes
them ideally suitable for those seeking to escape the crowded
thoroughfares.
HOLIDAY EXCURSIONS AT REDUCED RATES!
NO EXCHANGE.
247 George Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 87671.
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
UNION
LINE.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: Central 8393.
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of ‘ ‘The Bulletin.
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office—
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
JO
aseai
(jrREASE” is a word costing motorists many
thousands of pounds each year. The modern
motor car repays care in freedom from trouble
and repair bills. When metal meets metal—not
“grease” but the best of lubricants is needed.
Insure perfect lubrication by demanding
Alemite Lubricants for differential and transmis-
sion, for water pump, for all chassis bearings, for
springs, shackles, and wheel bearings. K-Aust4-32
ALEMITE CORPORATION • % Chicago. U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT- Chicago;- •
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
654 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St.. Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
ALEMITE
A Story that Was Never Written.
BY D. H. SOUTER.
FARRAR was about the only man left
in the office The final edition was on
the street the staff had gone home, and
only the clerks were waiting for 5.30 to
close their working day.
Tim Farrar fifty, genial but dictatorial,
as his job of city editor demanded, had
cleared his desk of the day’s debris by swip-
in»- it all on to the floor. Such fixtures as
the ’phone, a small filing cabinet, his paste-
pot and scissors and a shallow cardboard
box where he kept pins and his spare pipes
were there for all time.
Galley slips lay on the floor, with slashed
exchanges. Some held-over matter that
might come in handy for to-morrow’s first
edition hung by the window'. He was filling
his pipe; in two more jiffs he would change
his coat, grab his hat, light up and walk
downstairs. Three flights, but Jim always
walked down—a man had to have some exer-
c j SP .
Slow' footsteps came cautiously along the
corridor. An apologetic tap and a sw'arthy,
lightly-bearded face peered round the edge
of the half-open door.
“Well!” barked Jim—“what can I do for
you?”
“They tell me a Mistaire James Farrar I
might find here.” .
“Been five.'minutes later and you wouldn’t
have. I’m him—what can I do for you?”
The stranger wus at the desk now. Tall
and fortyish. Beaky-nosed and beady-eyed,
A thick crop of crisp dark hair lightly
touched with grey. Good clothes, but last
year’s. Linen clean, and the golden opal
on the third finger of liis right hand was a
fine stone. Jim noticed it as the man drew
a wmllet from his inside. pocket and fumbled
amon 0- the contents. He picked out a visit-
ing-card, showed both sides and laid it on
the table.
Jim read, “Sandy Boyd introduces Sam
Thanus to Jim Farrar,” written in ink on
the back. The front bore in thin type “S. A.
Thanus ” and down in the corner “Agent
Generate ”
“Whv, where did you get this?” spluttered
jj m
“From Mistaire Boyd himself.” and the
eyebrows lifted in query and full red lips
parted in a smile. “Nine weeks ago, in his
studio in the Rue Volte Face. Paris. He
know that I come here on beesinuss, and he
say be sure to call on Jim Farrar.”
“Then you don’t know that Sandv was
killed the day before yesterday in Paris?
Knocked down by a motor-car?”
“No But certainly?” .
“Oh it’s true Cabied out Par. in yes-
terday’s paper. ’ Old frien’ o’ mine, Sandy,
Bovs together at the Shore. Damn sorry I
was to hear it.”
“And when I see him in Paris he was so
full of health He look so young. Ah, it
is true all must die; but need some of you
die so soon as—as some of you do?”
“Beyond me; but if any man can guar-
antee me forty more years of health and
mental vigor I’ll talk business with him.”
“May I” : -
“Let’s step over to the club and tell me
something about Sandy. Four years since
1 .saw him, and we only wrote about once in
a blue moon.”
* * * *
It was nine o’clock.
They had had a couple of cocktails, dinner
and a bottle of wine. They had talked Sandy
Boyd and the tragedy of his being struck
down at the prime of his powers, when he
was just assured of recognition and reward,
It needed several drinks t 0 keep Jim from
crying like a child. He had rung up his wife
and told her that he was on the trail of a
big story and wouldn’t be home for dinner,
Advised her to take the kid to the flicks, and
when she came home he’d have a cup of tea
waiting for them.
Yes, nine o’clock and the great idea taking
.shape. Much talking made them thirsty,
“You say that if Sandy hadn’t been hit
he’d have— why, Voronoff isn’t in it with
you! You can’t expect me to come at that
stuff.”
“And yet, my friend, we live in an age
of marvel.” He shrugged his shoulders,
cocked his head on one side and waggled
his hands Hebraically. He did look some-
thing like a Jew as he lay back in the lounge
chair, long, lean legs crossed, a black cigar
cocked between his teeth, his face flushed
with a good meal and his eyes bright with
the good liquor.
They were in one of the small semi-private
rooms where members could talk privately
or play poker beyond the limit. “If you
will permit me,” he pleaded, “I will give
y°. u —what? Ah, yes, the exposition. A
trial of six hours of what I so wonderfully
claim. If you do not believe me, there is
nothing done. Six hours, and it is all as
if was before. No obligation. No nothing.
If you are satisfied, we shall the matter
discuss further. Hein?”
It seemed fair, but it was perfectly
absurd. Even Jim, with more liquor under
his vest than he was accustomed to have was
still sober enough to give the matter seri-
ous consideration. It would make a good
story, anyhow
How can I? I don t believe m you. No-
body does.”
“I understand: but business is so bad. I
have to look for it. One time, my dear Jim,
it come to me. Often I have had to turn
people away.”
“Well, I’m a sport; anything I’ll try
once. Go to it. But. mind, no funny busi-
ness or you’ll be sorry. Yes, by gee, Sam, you
will. , . . -
The formula is of the most simple, Jim.’
They had been Sam and Jim since the middle
of the bottle; and here he drew a finger-long
P hia l from nowhere filled with a liquid color-
Jess as spring water. Uncorked it and poured
fialf! in his own glass and half in Jim’s.
, To show you it is the most harmless, I
drink mine so. And he tossed it down
his gullet, smacked his lips, rubbed his palms
together and stuck his cigar between his
teeth again.
I think its all bulls wool,” sniggered
Jim, raising his glass and leering at Sam;
but I m a man o’ my word, and here goes”—
and down the dose went to mingle with all
* , *“&<* ?. one
Yes. In the half-hour from now it will
begin the work. In five and the half-hour
it will begin the undo. In six hour from
now it will be all gone and you Jim will be.”
“Ha. ha!” laughed Jim, hammering on the
table for two more whiskies. “It’s time I
was getting home.”
Half an hour later he stepped jauntily off
the tram and set out on his six-minute walk
to his Bondi bungalow. A bright starlit
night. Mary at the pictures. Just time to
change boots for slippers, set the electric-jug
going and wait to give her the surprise of
her young life.
He sat down on the couch in the lounge.
He smiled sleepily. He slept.
$ * * *
A heavy hand seized his shoulder and
shook him awake.
“Hey, boy, what’s the little game?”
Jim blinked awake. A big policeman was
standing over him; Mary in the background,
pale and flustered.
“Know this fellow?” the policeman asked
her.
“N-no, I don’t,” she stammered, “b-but I
know somebody that... .long ag0.... looked
a little bit like what he does.”
“Strikes me he is tight. Charge him with
breakin’ an’ enterin’, bein’ onlawfully on
premises. There hasn’t been anything took,
have you noticed?”
She hadn’t really looked. Hadn’t been
surprised that the light was on in the room,
as she expected her husband to be home. He’d
told her to go to the pictures, and when she
came in and found the man asleep in the
chair she almost screamed, and went and
rung up the station and then
She would have talked for hours about her
great adventure, but the policeman had a
talking machine at his own place, so he cut in.
“Let’s have a look if he’s done any
damage,” he said. “He’s set here for the
next two ];ours.”
With a curiously scared look at Jim, Mary
stood aside for-the policeman to pass into
the hall. Jim watched her through half-shut
eyes and gave her a leery wink. With a
strangled shriek, Mary dashed after the
constable.
Jim wasn’t so tight as he looked. H'e sal
up, and the first surprise he got was when
he put his hand to his head and found his
hair quite thick and riotously long, instead
of being thin and indecently scant. He leant
over to look at himself in the mirror on the
opposite wall. He saw a gangly youth in his
very early twenties with a shock of brown
hair, a suggestion of a moustache, side
levers and.... He stood up. His clothes
hung loose on him. He flexed his muscles;
they were pliant, unburdened by fat, not
flabby by lack of use.
“Gee!” he gasped. “That Sam fellow
wasn’t a takedown, after all.”
Mary and the policeman were in the back
bedroom. Jim drew a ring of keys from his
pocket, tiptoed out and let himself into a
room on the opposite side of the hall. Closed
the door without turning the light on and,
still smiling, groped his familiar way to a
divan cumbered with books and papefs. Some
he put carefully on the floor, and lay down
in their place.
Mary must have come back to have another
look at him, for her voice shrilled: “P’lice-
man, the man’s gone!”
* * # *
Next morning she and Jim talked it over
at breakfast.
“Funny you being in your room all the
time. Why, the row I made would have
woke the dead.”
“No doubt, Mary dear; but you forget
you’d hopped it to your mother’s before I
came in. Must have been all of one o’clock
when I got here. The house was quiet, I
thought you and the kid had gone to sleep,
so I just ducked into my den and was dead
to the world in two ticks. My surprise came
this morning when I found nobody at home.
Then I rang the old lady up.”
“Oh, I thought I should have died. There
he was. Jim, looking just like that picture of
you taken years before I met you—you know
the one, but in ill-fining clothes.... goodness
me I couldn’t sleep a wink all night! Who
could it have been?”
“Don’t worry, you’ll never see him again.
Some idiot who got screwed and wandered
into the wrong house.”
“Yes, Jim, but how could he?”
“Maybe you didn’t slam the door properly
when you went out. Don’t talk about it;
it won’t happen again.”
And they didn’t, and it didn't either.
To My Heart.
O my heart, what would you cherish,
Store and keep against the years,
If the roses fade and perish,
If the joy dissolves in tears?
What of summer’s light and laughter
Can you carry to the cold,
Sad and silent days thereafter?
What of youth when you are old?
While you dream, the dream is over.
As you kiss upon that breath
You are parted from your lover;
She has kept a tryst with Death.
While you run, the race is ended,
Laurels fallen to the dust.
Fight, the cause is undefended,
And the blade is dark with rust.
All your , pride and vaunt must measure
, At the end this common grave;
Heed and hoard no more vain treasure!
But, O my heart, be'brave !
ENGLAND.
D. P. MCGUIRE.
Road of Dreams.
A narrow grey road in the south
Through memory ever gleams,
Out where the gumboughs, arching, made
At brightest noon a twilight shade,
And where the stream that slipped along
Was like the echo of a song.
I call it Road of Dreams.
We parted there when brooding dusk
Was soft and grey and dim,
For lure of far roads, wide and long,
Is mons old, and wizard-strong,
And shall be while they compass earth;
But all life’s laughter, love and worth
Went out and followed him.
What hopes the grey road shared of old,
’Neath whispering leaf and bough !
Their memory shall be stars to me
Through all the long grey years to be.
For him, glad-eyed and debonair,
Time cannot bring one cloud or care;
His sleep is dreamless now.
O Road that knew the parting pain,
That heard the passionate prayer,
That knew of love most true and deep
The longing soul might ever keep,
When woods are hushed and winds are low.
I think that you, remembering, know
My spirit lingers there.
For, Road of Dreams, ah, Road of Dreams.
When night the hills has crossed,
I turn to you, by memory’s grace,
And walk your ways a little space,
And hear the well-loved voice of old;
For night, the pitiful, can hold
The treasures day has lost!
And yet with mortal eyes again .
Your ways I would not see
By dawn of rose or silver bright,
Or any splendid noon or night,
Lest time had changed the path we trod ;
And I would carry up to God
One perfect memory.
ST.S.W.
NELLIE A. EVANS.


AREERS
8y
y ® RbBERTSC
AL'STIiAI.ASI^
A FAMOUS BOOK
spec bis famous book is posted free to anyone
i Si Es »■ in business or wanting to be in business—
-96 PAGES, men and women—youths and grown-ups.
This book is called “Guide to Careers, ’’
and it is the most complete handbook that
has ever been issued on Australian con-
ditions of business. It gives in detail par-
ticulars of every avenue of approach to
success in business, what to do and how
to do it.
It is the literal truth to say that “Guide
to Careers contains information about
what can be done to increase one's busi-
ness acumen and knowledge which is
new even to many leading business men,
and every page is of practical value to
the ambitious and self-respecting man
anxious to fit himself for the arduous time
through which we are now passing and
for the opportunities which are coming
and coming quickly.
Be ready. The opportunities are on
the way. Some are here, and more than
a few of these have been seized by
students of Hemingway and Robertson
whose first step to success and security
was the possession of a copy of “Guide
to Careers”—the present or a previous
edition.
Young men in business are particu-
larly urged to get a copy of “Guide to
Careers.” The fact that they are in
business now is one good reason why they
should read it and take action to make
their positions secure and their futures
progressively better and brighter. Those
just entering business and the parents of
such will get a fund of exact information,
a precise and particular help that will clear
the vision and lead to a right decision as
to the course they will pursue.
“Guide to Careers” will put you on the
right road, will show you the way, and
will give you a stimulus to effort that will
be invaluable to you. Copies are posted
free and without obligation.
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
The Accountancy—Secretarial Specialists.
HEAD OFFICES.
38 BARRACK HODSE, 1(5 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
38 BANK HORSE, BANK PEACE, MELBORRNE, Cl.
Offices at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane; Newcastle, Perth, Adelaide, Hobart
Launceston.
- DETACH AND POST
1 To HEMINGWAY & KOI’.EUTSOX at ■
1 i Jiisi add capital city name) >
• I would like to have..' gpniplete information about your .
i i
, training in .•
Name .
■}
Business Address : 58/128' ,
SPECIALIST TUITION IN:
Accountancy
’ Secretaryship
Cost Accountancy
Banking and
Securities
Bankers’ Exams.
Insurance
Municipal Exams.
Scientific Marketing
and Merchandising
Advertising
Salesmanship
Commercial
Bookkeeping
Farm and Station
Bookkeeping
Effective English
and Personal
Development
Correspondence
Handwriting
Arithmetic
Business shorthand
All Business Subjects
ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE
Training for■ Executives
dfs
SAFE MEN for
Dangerous Times
dfs
BUSINESS today needs, and needs desperately, executives
with fresh minds and up-to-date equipment —men who
are safe, not in the discarded sense of dodging decisions,
but in the modern sense of making them and making
them right.
During the next five very dangerous and exciting
years, the new competition will make the fortunes of a
lot of such men —and force a number of others to the wall.
We are not in the least exaggerating this demand for
trained executives. So badly are they needed that the
key men of business today have gone to extraordinary
lengths in helping the Alexander Hamilton Institute to
train such executives. They have actually prepared for us
a whole new Course, designed to meet the new conditions.
The authors of this new Course are men whose
success belongs to the present —not the past. Their
own success in the future depends in some degree upon
their ability to find and develop capable assistants. That
is why they have co-operated so enthusiastically with
the Institute.
In preparing the new Course and Service, we have
drawn, without regard to cost, on the time and interest
of these outstanding business leaders. It is new,
challenging, utterly un-academic, vibrant with the energy
of men whose names are magic in the councils of modern
business. This Course and Service is so new that the
latter sections are not yet off the presses, although the
work of assembling and editing is now complete.
We have prepared a new book which describes
this new Course and Service, It is entitled "What an
Executive Should Know.” It is for men of a serious
purpose only. It will take about thirty minutes to read,
and it is free.
You must equip yourself to deal with what
lies ahead. Send for your copy of this
booklet today. It will come to you by mail,
without obligation.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
{Division of Hemingway &- Robertson)
To ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE
MS Barrack House. Barrack Street, Sydney
38 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne
Please send me, without obligation, your book—
“ What an Executive Should Know.”
NAME
BUSINESS ADDRESS
MS/r,
Thousands Subscribe to Australia's Great Weekly Newspaper
feuLletCn
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
fs
r
0
0°
4\C\
<**<>#
S 6
s 6
\\ e
\6'
9'
,V- o< ■
C»y.^


COMING HOME
is something to look forward to
these cold nights...A cosy fire and
a comfy chair, a tot of Gilbey’s
before dinner and another before
turning in and what’s wrong
with Winter?
Gilbey’s Dry Gin, owing to its tonic and warming
properties, is a splendid Winter drink. Taken
hot with lemon and sugar it’s one of the finest
preventives for incipient colds and chills.
DON’T SAY G1N.... SAY
CILBEV’S
DRY
EM
o«
BY appointment
TO H.M.THE KIfM G
GIN
roT-TtSO
c wroQum
- /(HrflU
’vM//MmM'L'-- r^rnm
\ n c*t»
vuartuixtit.
HP*
‘ "“*' t> 1 '^t^!
Nif r^--f :
£?-» |C *tafflngg-»rje
&
SsJSSS'S
M
,<$
rr» “Yi«t?iiWC
3 SaSs
-»\i
'x±s* -***i
to-**
* .■::,# ' li WWmwt 1 '
■■'• :. '"■■'• i<9
