

Australian Metropolitan Life
Assurance Company Ltd.
The Metropolitan was incorporated in 1895. Its
business is confined to the Commonwealth and
its Head Office is in Sydney.
Its Assurance Funds at 31st December, 1931, were
£1,035,740 Bs. 2d.
It has in Reserves, against depreciation of invest-
ments and for other contingencies, more than
£lOO,OOO.
Bonuses are declared annually.
it is noteworthy that Metropolitan Bonuses have suffered ho
diminution despite falling values during the last couple of
years. The maintenance of a high standard of Bonus has been
possible, because provision was made in past years for just
such conditions as those which have temporarily held up
progress in Australia. While Investments in Stock. Exchange
securities and in Real Estate have generally depreciated since
1929, policies issued by the Metropolitan have steadily
. increased in value.
There is no better investment than a Metropolitan Policy.
Head Office:
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING,
Corner Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
Directors
Dr. A. MURRAY WILL
W. A. H. ALLWORTH
D. F. STEWART
J. A. HENDERSON
F. J. EATON.
d
General Secretary:
F. J. EATON.
1
Bankers:
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
General Manager: J. A. HENDERSON.
Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance Coy. Ltd.
Victoria.
The Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
BRANCH OFFICES:
Queensland.
Metropolitan Buildings,
Albert and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
South Australia.
Trustee Building,
22 Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
The Bulletin
WUu ? (Pafle 8
Vol 53.—N0. 2722.
Wednesday, April 13, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


QUR Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
with full terms and particulars post
free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 232
V
\
/
Protects
While It Cleanses
You cleanse your skin
regularly—why not pro-
tect it as you cleanse it?
Cuticura Soap
contains the medicinal,
antiseptic and healing
qualities of Cuticura.
It is soothing, fragrant
and refreshing.
Soap Is. Sample free.
Address: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S.W.
“THE AGE”
Established, 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 117,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—-this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
everyone agrees that
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and , stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
Che Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Sowing the Seeds of Better Business.”
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Cbe Dominion
“THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
Do You Know THIS?
Western Australia embraces a third
of the Commonwealth of Australia,
and could comfortably hold England,
Ireland, Scotland and Wales, France,
Germany, Hungary, Norway, Italy,
Portugal, Switzerland and Belgium,
with room to spare.
It could very nearly accommodate a
third of the United States.
The BIGGEST PAPER
in the
LARGEST STATE
is the PERTH
A GREATER VOLUME OF NEWS
AND ADVERTISING PER ISSUE
THAN ANY OTHER PAPER IN THE
GOLDEN WEST.
Sell through the Popular
Western Advertising Medium.
—BEST BY TEST—
THE PATRIOT
E^CTOEDIIJy^WOMENI
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep-: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Among the Reformers
Here are three striking books by pro-
fessional teachers, two of whom have been
nothing else all their professional lives,
while one abandoned the old job to become
an eminent novelist, and has since gone back
to teaching as a publicist. All say the
world is heading for disaster, and all have
different remedies. They only agree on two
points: the desirability of more and better
education for the masses, and the impera-
tive necessity of getting rid of the war
spirit.
An English Public-school Master
L. B, Pekin, author of Public Schools,
Their Failure and Their Reform (Hogarth
Press; 7s. 6d,), writes as an expert. He
was at “a public school which has been
honored as a leader of English education
for half a thousand years,” and he has been
a master at other great schools. He accepts
the conventional definition of a public
school—one of those boys’ secondary
schools which are represented at the Head-
masters’ Conference. As our G. P. Schools,
such as Geelong Grammar and King’s, are
organised on much the same lines as English
public schools, his criticisms, for what they
are worth, have an Australian application.
He thinks that militarism in all its forms
should be got right out of the schools. In
England—speeches and sermons about
battle, national flags and patriotism apart
—it takes the form chiefly of Officers’
Training Corps. An O.T.C., he says, cannot
help being “a jealously-watched depart-
ment- of the War Office.”
At the present time every public school practically
without exception has its O.T.C., and there are no
less than 6(1,000 boys between the ages of fourteen
and eighteen- being carefully trained for war. The
cost to the parents of this organisation is something
under £50,000 a year; the cost to the taxpayer
is £160,0t)0 a year. Our country contributes to
the expenses of the League of Nations to prepare
for peace £120,000 a year; on the training of
schoolboys to prepare for w r ar it spends not far short
of twice that sum.
The object- of the O.T.C. is admittedly to
provide a reserve of officers for the Terri-
torials. The Eton O.T.C. was recently
told by the King that “in war the valuable
works of the Corps can never be estimated,”
and a War Office report read:—
Young officers are not coming forward in suffi-
ficient numbers. This is a serious matter, and the
co-operation of the headmasters is necessary with
the object of maintaining the popularity of the
O.T.C. and keeping up the supply of officers for
the Regular and Territorial Army.
He denies that drill is even physically
beneficial. Lieut.-Colonel Deans, of the
R.A.M.C., has condemned it in “The
Irritable Heart in Soldiers,” and in France
military drill in schools was abolished
“expressly owing to the bad effect it was
observed to have upon the boys’ physique.”
Side by side with the military spirit goes
conservatism. At his school “the boys’
social opinions were nourished on trash
like the ‘Daily Mirror,’ ” while the “Man-
chester Guardian” was discouraged. Hence
political prejudice, and ignorance of the
machinery of government:—
I feel pretty sure that only a handful of boys on
leaving school at 18 have a clear idea of the
difference between rates and taxes, the constitution
and powers of the House of Lords, or the meaning
of municipal enterprise. The average boy travels
all his life in communised trams along communised
roads lit by communised light and enjoys all the
amenities of communised property in his town —and
remains the whole time under the impression that
communism is a thing which nobody but those
fools of Soviets would ever dream of trying.
An Australian Educationist
M. P. Hansen is less explicit in Thoughts
That Breathe (Robertson and Mullens;
6s.). He doesn’t commit himself to any
immediate changes of a revolutionary
nature. As Victoria’s Director of Educa-
tion he naturally agrees with the Aristote-
lian theory that culture must be the chief
concern of the State. More and more edu-
cation of the right sort, he considers, will
cause the masses to realise the futility of
war. Nothing else will make them see the
economic waste of group action opposed to
the general welfare of the community—in
short, of strikes and lockouts. Teachers
must inculcate “love, service and sacrifice”;
the aim being to instil the spirit as well
as the forms of democracy into the schools
—for “if democracy fails, we fail.”
Life at school should, possibly on a higher plane,
represent the life of the community. Thought for
others, service before self, justice for all, freedom
within the law' accepted as the guiding rule to secure
the common well-being, the encouragement of self-
government—all of these should be part of the
school life of to-day.
What will follow? Internationalism in
place of the intense nationalism of to-day,
which is such a'
fruitful source of
racial hatreds and
jealousies. A de-
sire to help, and
not to oppress or
exploit weaker
nations. The abolition of war as uncivilised
and unworthy of mankind. But he has no
desire, as his fellow-reformer evidently has,
to see strife on behalf of King and country
stripped of all its glamor. In his chapter on
“Literature and Art” he quotes approvingly
two conspicuous nationalist poems—
Henley’s “Last Post,” and one which ends:
O England! I heard the cry of those that died for
thee
Sounding like an organ voice across the winter sea;
They lived and died for England, and gladly went
their way.
England! O England! How could I stay ?
And one of the school institutions which
he recommends as “a preparation for com-
plete and worthy living” is a Military Club
in which “drilling and study of manual of
arms, signalling Morse code and sema-
phore” may be learned. Briefly, Mr. Han-
sen’s idea seems to be that nations of light
and leading should hope and strive for inter-
nationalism, and meanwhile keep their
powder dry.
The Prophet Wells
H. G. Wells, in What Are We to Do with
Our Lives?. (Heinemann; 3s. 6d.), confesses
that after the educationists had finished
with him, after the University of London
had given him a degree, and the London
College of Preceptors a license to teach, he
had to begin educating himself all over
again.
There is hardly any intelligent mental training-
done in the schools of the world to-day. We have
to learn this art [the art of thinking], if we are
to practise it at all. Our schoolteachers have had
no proper training themselves, they miseducate by
example and precept, and so it is that our press and
current discussions are more like an impromptu
riot of cripples and deaf and blind minds than
an intelligent interchange of ideas.
He found himself in a society of hostile
groups professing ready-made loyalties, but-
tressed by cant words of opprobrium—
“bolshie,” “bourgeois,” “utopian," “dis-
loyalist,” “conchie” and so on. And . the
same in the international sphere. Every
important modern Government is particu-
larist, and organised on a military or naval
basis. There is something beguiling about
the sentimentalities that surround the
world’s old combative traditions:—
It is difficult to resist the fine gravity, the high
self-respect, the examples of honor and style in
small things, that the military and naval services
can present to us, for all that they are now no more
than noxious parasites upon the nascent world
commonweal.
There you have his vision—a world com-
monweal, an era in which economic co-
operation shall be universal. It may be
more practicable than it soiinds. In theory
George V. is the personal proprietor of the
Post Office.
But the Postal Union of the world which steers a
registered letter from Chile to Norway or from
Ireland to Pekin is almost completely divorced from
the convention of an individual owner. It works ;
it is criticised without awe or malice. Except for
the stealing and steaming of letters practised by
the police of various countries, it works fairly well.
And the only force behind it to keep it working
well is the unconscious common sense of mankind.
Nationalism is the enemy, and all the pat-
riotisms, prejudices and enmities which are
bound up with it. But before nationalism
goes tens of thousands of vested interests
ranging from reigning sovereigns to the
humblest private soldiers will have to be
disposed of.
It is no good to operate for cancer unless the
whole growth is removed. Leave a crown about
and presently you will find it being worn by some-
one resolved to be a king. Wave a flag and it
will wrap about you.
He claims that the young people who have
seen their elders make hopeless messes of
both the war and the peace are ready for
the experiment; youth being what it has
always been, “eager for fine interpretations
of life, capable of splendid resolves.” It
may be so. He has proved a true prophet
more than once.
RED PAGE.
Some Russian and German Films
The awakening interest in the Continental
film in Sydney has prompted me to write
about some experiences I had recently in
Munich. One of these was the showing
at one of the best-known cinemas—the
Luitpold—of what one might call an “ab-
stract film/’ made under the direction of the
man who is probably the greatest genius
amongst present-day film producers—Eisen-
stein. The title was “Longing” (“Sehn-
sucht”). There was no plot whatever, and
the sub-heading explained that it was a
picture of autumn sadness, longing and un-
requited love. This theme was used as the
basis for some of the most glorious photo-
graphy I have ever seen. The film opened
in a furious storm. One had the illusion
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.”—The Foundation of Confidence.
LX,-
IS
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
Pure Wool Travelling Rugs
Anthony Horderns’ Travelling Rugs are renowned both for Quality and Low
Price. Only Pure Wool is used, and the rugs are designed to give the utmost in
wear. Satisfaction is guaranteed.
54 x 74 ins. . . . 13/6
Pure Wool Rugs; fringed ends. In a
good variety of serviceable designs.
Sizes, inches 54x74
Anthony Horderns’ Price, ea., 13/6
Pure Merino Wool
Pure Merino Wool Rugs
reversible. These Rugs
have fringed ends.
Beautiful designs and
color effects. Soft, smooth finish.
Size, inches 60 x 80
Anthony Horderns’ Price, ea., 39/6
39/6
60 x 78 ins 19/6
Pure Wool Rugs with fringed ends.
Heavyweight in a wide range of the
newest colors and designs.
Size, inches 60 x 78
Anthony Horderns’ Price, ea., 19/6
Super Merino Rugs
Super Merino Wool Rugs /''V J
of a reliable medium I I /
weight. Reversible; with \JI
fringed ends. Select from a
wide range of most beautiful designs
and color effects.
Size, inches 60 x 80
Anthony Horderns’ Price, ea., 50/-
( Travelling Rugs—Ground Floor, George Street. We Pay Carriage.)
Anthony Horderns'
All-Wool
Cot Blankets;
“Hordura”
White “Hordura” Cot Blankets of
All Wool.
Cream Cots
Plain Cream Cot Blankets of All
Wool. Boxed.
Inches, 30 X 40 32 X 52 36 X 56
Anthony Horderns’
Prices, ea., 4/9 6/6 8/3
Colored Cots
Plain Colored All-wool Cot Blankets.
Blue or Pink. Boxed.
Inches, 30 X 40 32 x 52 36 x 56
Anthony Horderns’
Prices, ea., 5/11 7/6 8/11
Fancy Cream
Cots
Fancy Cream Cot Blankets of All
Wool. Boxed.
Inches, 30 X 40 32 X 52 36 x 56
Anthony Horderns’
Prices, ea., 5/6 7/6 8/11
Fancy Colored
Cots
All-wool Fancy Colored Cot
Blankets. Boxed.
Inches, 30 x 40 32 x 52 36 x 56
Anthony Horderns’
Prices, ea., 6/6 7/11 9/11
Self-Colored
Blankets
Self-colored Australian Blankets, in
Blue, Pink, Rose, Lemon, Mauve,
Champagne and Green.
Inches
54 X 78 63 XBl 72 x9O 81 x 99
Sgl. Bed. f bed. Double. Lg. Dbl.
Prices, pair—
-39/11 48/6 59/6 72/6
Tasmanian
Mid-Grey Blankets
All-wool Tasmanian Grey Blankets.
Inches
54 X7B 63 XBl 72 X9O 81 x 99
Prices, pr.—
18/6 22/11 28/11 35/-
(Blankets — First Floor. We t’ay Carriage .)
•- ■ V5~ -f..
II
m
' Yt "- .''l/
m
mm
n
d
Jjj
'V'.«X-.. re
m
tsa?f \
M
t*§li
3Sfc
p*"
Prepare for Colder Nights! Purchase
Quality Winter Weight
jV
' % .'*ts r wfcVS&'O >s£?>**£«
9MI fliite
"HORDURA” White All-Wool Blankets
Our special All-Wool AVhite Hordura’ Blankets with two-tone heading of Pink and Blue. Excep-
tional value. Warm and serviceable. Guaranteed full standard size and weight.
Sizes, in.:
Prices:
54 x 78
Single Bed.
21/6
63x81
| Bed.
26/3
72 x 90
Double.
33/6
81 x 99
Lge. Double.
39/11
White “ Hordura ” Blankets
White “Hordura” Blankets.
White Australian Blankets
White Australian Blankets of excellent value. Soft,
warm and fleecy.
54in. x 72in. Single Bed. Price, pair, .... 16/11
54in. x 78in. Single Bed. Price, pair, .... 17/11
63in. x 81 in. Three-quarter. Price, pair . 22/6
72in. x 90in. Double Bed. Price, pair, .... 25/11
81 in. x 99in. Lge. Double Price, pair, .... 35/-
Grey 44 Hordura ” Blankets
Silver and Dark Grey “Hordura Blankets.
Sizes . . Sgl. Bed. f Bed. Double. Lg. Dbl.
Inches 54 x7B 63 xBl 72 x9O 81x 99
Dark Grey, pr. . . 21/6 27/6 3S/- 42/-
Silver Grey, pr. .. 22/11 29/6 37/6 45/-
Grey Australian Blankets
Silver and Dark Grey Australian Blankets—soft and
fleecy.
Inches, 54 x 72 54 x7B 63 xBl 72 x9O 81x 99
Sgl. Bed. Single. % Bed. Double. Lg. Dbl.
Prices, pr., i4/6 15/6 19/11 24/6 29/11
Check C amp Blankets
Check Camp Blankets. Well assorted, in light and
dark checks. Sizes, inches 54x70 60x80
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, each .. 9/6 12/11
(Blankets —First Floor. We Pay Carriage.)
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.
SYDNEY.
f
’Phone M 2401
Day and Night.


Every Evening...
there is no better aid to
relaxation than a glass of
that true lager—Tooth’s
K B—rich in the vitamins
that come from pure malt
and freshly picked hops.
Try a bottle to-night.
A co °L PTT
r
m
~8
jm
/
i
3?
#
jr
Will
A
*
»
JK/5
TOOTH’S
LAGER


BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
PRACTICAL BIRTH CONTROL, by Hornibrook, 5/-
Married Love by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/3; Wise Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/10 ; Sex at
Choice by Mrs. Erskine, 11/5; The Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10 ; Enduring
Passion bv Marie Stopes 7/10; Contraception—Birth Control, Its Theory, History and 1 lactice,
hv Marie Carmichael Stopes, 22/4; Badiant Motherhood, by Mane Stopes, 7/10 ; Sex and the
vLnl hv Stones4/10- The New Toxology—The Science of Sex and Life, 8/-; The Sex
Facto g r’ il Marda-e. by Helena Wright, 5/9; Sex Knowledge, by N. 'March, 1/8; Love and
Marriage by Scott Hall, 13/3: Exercises for Women, by Hornibrook, 5/4; Seciets of Successfu
Marriage! by D°G Courtenay Beale, 10/4; Realities of Marriage, by Dr G Courtenay Beale,
10/4- Youth and Maidenhood, bv W. M. Gallichan, 4/6; The Perfect Wife, by Dr G.
10/4, n ' Hannv Lover bv Dr G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11; Eugenics and Birth
Courtenay ] Beale 111 , Happj 1 over by m con llicban e/s . Wise
Wedlock bv hr Courtenay &, 10/3; Medical Views on Birth Control, 6/4; Canary
Breeding for Beginners 2/9 ; Physical Culture Simplifted-A . Complete Course of Physical
Culture 8 6/3- Better Sight Without Glasses, by LI. Benjamin, 6/4; The Guttuie of the
Abdomen, by Hornibrook, 7/10; Sox Problems and Their Solution, by Haydn Broun, 5/o,
NEW TECHNICAL HANDBOOKS, 1932, FOR MECHANICS
Fowler's Electrical Engineer’s Pocket Book, 1932.
Price, 5/6 posted
Fowler’s Mechanic’s and Machinist’s Pocket Book, 1932.
Price, 3/9 posted
Mechanical World Year Book, 1932. Price, 3/- posted
The Woodworker Annual. Price, 12/- posted
Calvert’s Mechanic’s Almanac, 1932. Price, 1/- P osted
Sexual Science by Dr. A. A. Phillip. 4/6; Knowledge a Young Husband Should Have,. by
Sp 4/6 Knowledge a Young Man Should Have, by Phillip, 4/6 ; Knowledge a Young
should Have, by Phillip, 4/6; The Book of Nature, 3/9; Contract Bridge, by Ely
i 'iithhprtson 8/6" Contract Bridge in Twenty Minutes, 1/11; How to Become an Effective Public
Speaker 2/2 ; Mayes’ Australian Builder’s Price Book, 15/6: Menus Made Easy, by Nancy Lake,
r./i • Cocktails and How to Mix Them, 3/11; Aust. Nuts and Nut Growing m Aust > by Rumsey,
o m’. Foulsham’s Letter Writer 3/4; Chambers's Twentieth-century Dictionary, 13/4; Cards fo
bv BaSp Dalton, M.A.! 3/1; Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date”). 2/8;
Popular Card Games and How to Play and Win. by F. Ings, 1/5 ; The Book of Luck by •
Souter 1/5; Foulsham’s Best Short Prose Recitations, 3/4; House s Canary Manual 2/9, Table
Rapping 2/6: 12 Best Indoor Games for Two, by A. Belasco, 1/6; Yard Locks Lettei M rite
for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2; The Letter Writer 2/8 ,
How to Read the Hand, by Karma, 4/-; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/11, Plumbing,
Soldering and Brazing for Amateurs, 1/11; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1 : ' "a/V'-
for \mateurs 1 /II • What to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Cassells Concise English Dictionaq, 3/-,
PaintSg Ironwork/Steel and Metal, by W. L. Savage, 1/6; Every Man His Own Mechanic, 9 - ;
Home Carpentry, bv John Barnard, 4/1; Aust. Book of Ready-made Speeches anil oasts, 3/-,
BoS and Shoe "Repairing, 1/11; Clock and Watch Repairing, 1/11; Double-bed Dialogues 1/2 ,
Modern Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 6/-; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes, 26/-; Napoleons
Book of Fate, 3/4; Zadkcil’s Dream Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4 ; Cheiro Guide to the Hand,
4/1- The Angora Rabbit Book for Australia, 2/3; Universal Trade Reckoner 4/3 Bulletin
Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2 ; Prospecting for Gold $
lon Idriess, 5/6; Novelty Evenings (all lands of games), 2/9; A to Z of Australian Tiu
growing by Rumsey, 2/2; Fortune Telling by Tea-leaves, 2/-; Diesel Engine, by Jonffl
Special Price —15/-; Crystal Gazing and Clairvoyance, 5/3; 1001 Riddles, New and Old, 2/2 ,
Lee’s Guide to the Game of Draughts, 4/6; Chess Lessons for IBeginners, 2/6; Cl‘ ir
Draughts, by Belasco, 1/5; How to Repair and Restring Tennis Racquets, 3/-; Motor Kepai
Manual, 4/7; Motor Electrical Manual, 4/7; Guide for the Chairman and becretary, 3/2, 1
Modern Letter Writer, 2/9; Hypnotism Simplified, by Martin, 1/11; Hand : readmg Made Easy,
bv Noel Jaquin, 4/6; Parenthood —a Manual of Birth Control, by Fielding, c
Marriage, by Winifred Scott Hall, 13/-; Sex Knowledge—with special chapter on birth contiol,
1/S; The Why and How of Birth Control, by Dr. Adamson, 4/7; How to Mesmerise, by Jane
Coates, 3/3; The Mastery of Sex, by L. D. Weatherhead —a vital book, 5/5.
Try the Bookstall Co. First
WRITE FOR LISTS OF BOOKS ON SUBJECTS IN WHICH YOU ARE INTERESTED.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
of being driven at great speed along a road
on either side of which trees stripped bare
of their leaves were being hurled to the
ground. There were rapid interpositions ot
scenes on a seashore in which the waves,
lashed to fury, were seen breaking wildly ■
on the rocks. Then one saw the reflections
of wind-tossed trees in a lake. Its ruttlea
surface subsided to a mirror-like calm, and
the spirit of storminess was gradually suc-
ceeded by one of autumn sadness.
The scene then changed to the interior of
a country house. The details of the room
were shown one by one—the flickering ot
the flames on the hearth, the wrought-iron
firedogs, the softly-shaded lamp and the
figure of a girl seated at a grand piano.
She goes to the window and looks out on
the storm, then returns to the piano and
sings softly a wistful air expressive of loneli-
ness and unrest. This scene, with its mood
of anxiety and longing, is prolonged with
all its details in order to produce a certain
atmosphere, and the sombreness of the
dimly-lighted room, the black grand-piano
and the black-clothed girl is emphasised.
Suddenly the mood changes completely, and
the scene switches to a meadow carpeted
with flowers dancing in the spring breeze.
One sees the girl again, in floating white
voiles, singing a song of jubilation, exult-
ing in the return of the season of blossoms.
That was all there was to this film—no
plot and no action, yet a masterly induce-
ment of atmosphere through the appropriate
use of inanimate objects and of light and
shade. The Russians and, of course, also
the Germans are masters in the use oi
lighting in order to gain certain effects, and
their photography attains thereby an artis-
try never approached by the Americans. I
have seen Russian films in which the types
and the lighting were such as to make one
think of a painting by Rembrandt. Notably
“Transport of Arms,” a picture of the be-
ginnings of the revolution.
The screening of Russian films in Eng-
land has been opposed because of their
Communist propaganda. Yet Germany,
with more cause to fear Communism,
admits them freely. As a matter of fact
what propaganda they do contain is of a
ridiculously obvious kind. It is as though
the producer, who is invariably an artist,
introduces it almost contemptuously, being
obliged by the Government to put in, let
us say, 10 per cent, of propaganda in every
film made. However, films like “Earth”
and “Mother” do not really contain any
Communist propaganda whatever. The one
tells simply the triumph of machinery over
manual labor for agricultural purposes, and
the other depicts the struggle of a poor
working woman with a drink-sodden hus-
band to live decently—excellent propa-
ganda for the prohibitionists, which they
would undoubtedly decline to use on
account of its extreme frankness!
Although the Germans do produce a
fair amount of trash on the Hollywood
model, the percentage of worth-while films
is remarkably high. One could be assured
that any film in which Marlene Dietrich
or Brigitte Helm was starring would be
well acted and artistic in its settings and
photography. The plot may be trifling, but
the other things give ample compensation.
I saw a very good film starring one of the
greatest' actors of the present day—Albert
Bassermann. It was about a professor who
pretended he could synthesise living beings
from mandrake roots. The supposed pro-
ducts of this experiment—a beautiful girl
who was really the offspring of criminals —
has a fatal influence on anyone who falls
in love with her, and finishes by drowning
herself. This all sounds rather stupid, but
it w T as acted so well and restrainedly that
it soared far above melodrama.
An unusual film was provided by the
screen version of the recently-produced
“Dreigroschen Oper,” the music of which
was composed by Kurt Weil. This is a
German version of “The Beggar’s Opera”
brought up to date, in which scarcely any-
thing of the original, apart from the names
of the characters, is retained. The scene
is changed to the London of 1909-10. Mac-
heath is a robber-king, and he has a gor-
geous wedding with Jenny, at which the
entire furnishings and banquet are the
spoils of numerous robberies! Various
underworld dives, including the shop in
which the “Beggar King” fits out his clients
for their trade, form the subjects of
some extremely effective photography.
There is also a splendid crowd scene, in
which the beggars march relentlessly on, as
unstayable as the tide itself. There was
something sinister and terrible about those
set faces and shuffling steps. The opera is
the vehicle for much bitter sarcasm at the
expense of the smug and self-satisfied
middle-class, a tone very prevalent amongst
the German youth of to-day. The music,
by Kurt Weil, is written in the jazz idiom;
but, witlvffhe exception of one song, which
is in everybody’s mouth at present, it is
too advanced to become generally popular.
It has a quite unusual punch about it, how-
ever, and is extremely interesting and
stimulating.
SUZANNE REICHARD.
Fashions in Art
Edgar Holt’s exhortation to Australian
authors, painters, poets and critics, "Let Us
Catch Up!” (R.P. 23/3/’32), reads to me
more like a fashion note. Our Australian
intelligentsia, according to Mr. Holt, are
in the position of the Toorak lady who,
owing to the depression, did not do the
European trip in 1931 —they are wearing
last year’s hats. Mr. Holt is, intellectually
speaking, in the position of the lady who
has just come back and is able to tell us
what color the women of Paris are paint-
ing their finger-nails this year. He speaks
with the utmost familiarity of the 1 hats
now being worn by T. S. Eliot,(James Joyce
and W. B. Yeats. More, he is able to prog-
nosticate what, hats their successors will
be wearing in 1942. In the realm of art,
according to Mr. Holt, we are equally
dowdy and out of date. It is pathetic, he
says, that the Melbourne “Herald” should
have “actually permitted a controversy in
its columns recently about Post-Impres-
sionism.” As a fashion expert Mr. Holt
is able to tell us that this question (of the
value of Post-Impressionism) “was settled
20 years ago,” and that Cezanne, Van Gogh
and Gauguin have been absorbed
into the tradition of great art. Now who
told Mr. Holt that? Few artists, unless they
be Post-Impressionists themselves, would
dare to say as much. Rembrandt was a
fashion until he began to offend against the
conventions of his time. Then he went out of
fashion—he was seen to be wearing the
wrong hat. He died in abject poverty,
though still with a brush in his hand. Over
100 years later an eminent critic wrote a
history of art in which he ranked Rem-
brandt. lower than a dozen of his contem-
poraries whose very names have been for-
gotten while Rembrandt’s steadily grows in
significance. Mr. Holt is also an expert in
musical hats. Apparently he finds Debussy’s
topper and Rimsky-Korsakoff’s oriental
turban hopelessly out of date. Yet a few
years ago they were considered extremely
smart. He does not give the names of more
modern and fashionable composers whose
lids we should emulate. Perhaps Honegger’s
bowler is the correct wear for a musical
gentleman of fashion nowadays. Mr.
Holt’s silence on the point is hard on Aus-
tralian composers.
F.S.
A Satchel of Books
O Providence, by John Hampson (Hogarth
Press; 7s. (3d.). Another book about boys
by one who is probably still a boy. The
career of Justin Stonstun is traced from liis
nursery days to the time he is ready to leave
school. Ilis little problems, his lickings, his
unrequited passion for Dicky, a much older
lad, are described in detail, but one reader
at least found them very boring.
Brief Youth, by F. E. Mills Young (John
Lane; 7s. 6d.), is one of tlie many novels
that are appearing now about the depresh.
Sir Joseph I’epperil makes a huge fortune
out of Cash Stores, Ltd., begins to feel the
breeze in 15)26 and is stonebroke four years
later. Nell, his wife, is a charming charac-
ter. lie is the traditional profiteer, yet you
like him. Brief Youth is as good as any-
thing this prolific writer has done.
A. J. Evans supplies an admiring preface
to The Escapes of Captain O’Brien, R.N.
(John Lane; 7s. 6d.). O’Brien was a
prisoner of war in France during the Napo-
leonic campaigns, and his story will interest
those who know Flanders quite apart from
its appeal as a story of high adventure. It
contains absorbing pictures of Boulogne,
Etaples, Verdun and other places that the
Diggers knew in 1915-18 as they were in
1804-08.
The Great Breath, a book of lino-cuts by
Christian Waller (Mrs. Napier Waller), is
the first-born of the Golden Arrow Press, the
Geelong fine-art enterprise of* H. Tatlock
Miller. Miller aims by handprinting to get
back to the craftmanship and intimacy of
the pre-machine age, and this production
goes a considerable distance in the chosen
direction. Mrs. Waller’s designs depicting
the evolution of the human race are less
interesting for their subject matter than for
the balance of their arrangement and the
rich beauty of their blacks. Other hand-
made books are to follow.
And a Little Verse
FALLACY.
When they told me she had died
I caught my breath:
That such a brittle thing should bear
The ravishes of Death!
Death carves us to a stern design,
Stark and austere;
Death seized and snapped her pliant limbs,
Death huddled her.
I said: “She did not die like that:
Death was a drowsy word
In a sentence sung by Sleep.
Death was a silver bird
That nestled into the curves of her throat
And wheedled her soul, soft note by note.”
But the chill in my blood was a bitter cry :
“You lie!”
N.S.W.
ADRIAN SUMHERS.
TO STRANGERS.
I will not weary you with songs of praise
For very Beauty and essential Truth,
Though there be in me the desire of youth
For Truth and Beauty, and my dream delays
Beyond all patience. Beauty will not be
For my much speaking, nor, being cried upon,
Will Truth give answer; therefore go you on,
Having not ears to bear nor eyes to see.
Though I should bring you sunsets and tall
trees,
Or courage and sweet quiet for your store
Of lovely thought, or tales of blood and lust
For your repelling, I cannot with these
Bring you a gift jvm never knew before,
Teach you delight or anger or disgust.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.
Answers to Correspondents.
„ . , , , ,) vrill he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. A amt
10 n and e addres?mit appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.F.W.: You haven’t seen any new thing
or dressed any old thing in a new pinny... .Azrael:
Not sure we know what you’re driving at...,.
Clare S.: There’s too much window-dressing—and it’s
too obvious... .G.S.McL.: Buck up; things might be
worse. Lang might have gone to Enzed... .Sherry:
Should be poured out into the girl’s own goblet.
J.W.H.P.: There’s a promise in it H.M.G.:
Sony, but it’s quite hopeless... .R.H.D.: A bit
con’ugated; and the thought is not very fresh....
B. Cheer: All jingle and sentimentality.... Caboola:
Nothing that grips. But it shows very fair crafts-
manship. .. .lt.E.: No value... .C.G.O B.: Expect
you to offer something acceptable when you get
away from the too obvious in the scenery.... G.0.C.:
Lacks suspense; and the dialogue is poor E.M.E.:
Very well done in its way; but the way is too
worn E.M.G.: On the brink, but the last verse
is p00r.... Ariadna: Trivial... .John Mcß.: Careless
work; a writer who can do as well should blush
for that second stanza... .L.G.M.: “Byways” got to
a third reading.... Les B.: You “tossed it off. ’ So
did we 11.0. C.; Sorry couldn’t ask your
cheerful old lady to stay.... Edna C.: Suit a
church magazine better... .W.R.M.: Vou supplied
the marble, we wrote the epitaph M.8.C.: Try
something simpler. Look to your grammar.. ..
Obligato: There is no melody in it Vlex. P.: Holds
promise; but the catalogue form is never ve 1 y
interesting. ... K.J.M.: Well, if that is music, a
whale is a crow.... John H.: Go on. Vou seem
always to .be trying to express a thought, and that’s
promising. But so far your flow is muddy....
J.8.C.: Pretty good of its unreal class ; and for present
use a thing of that length has to be exceptionally good.
....Noel R.: Sorry to say no, but the plot is too
thin G.M.H.: You’d have to be a rare genius
to make a passable yarn out of such materials
Michael O’J).: Well, that critic had over 25 years’
experience of the Service, and reached the top of it.
E. Mansfield: The mask isn’t well enough
described to make the man inside interesting....
Bulgar W.: Didn’t propose anything of the sort.
What we proposed was that Australia should “re-
employ” 100,000 men —at a thousand or 10,000
different jobs G.F.L.: “Irish Repartee” too local.
. J.McI.: Written for too specialised an audience.
. ...H.L.T.: As matter-of-fact as a death certificate.
....L.S.: “Squeals” failed to move us... .W.M.F.:
Too much repetition E.M.: Some swing but little
freshness. . . .R.N.C.: Couldn’t find a pinch of grain
among the chaff Blackboy: Below the mark....
Joke: There’s one in it, but it needs better phrasing.
....Sisyphus: A few fair-to-middling lines, but it’s
hard work rolling a cask of that size uphill ....
p.j.1.: Too long and not strong enough.... Artiker:
You make heavy going of it Bos: Procumbit humi.
A.M.H.: Sorry stuff P.S.L.: Your heart may
be “all aglow with melody,” but you don’t put
much of it into your quatrains. .. .F.P.: Cannot
do anything with them. . . .H.8.M.: Time De Groot
had a rest... .E.L.T.: Feeble to pitifulness
I-1.D.W.: Well, you’ll have to be hurt, then.... Q. 8.:
Bridge poems ai'e 0ff....J.8.: From “The Coup-de-
grace of Cap. do Groot”: —
Lang sent him to the madhouse,
As he had power to do.
But, while the world with laughter rang,
There were a lot who reckoned Lang
The madder of the two.
....P.J.1.: The erotic poem about the shearer who
“wooed and won the super’s laughing daughter one
sunny noon, when songbirds softly fluted songs of
love” strikes us as infernally unreal... .V.M.W.:
Yes, you may well “hesitate to call it a poem.
....Platypus: We might like it, but we don’t,....
G.H.: No, it isn’t worth publishing. In fact, we
wouldn’t publish such appalling stuff, 150 lines of
it, at advertising' rates.... C.T.K.: Too right, another
ballad for the basket Oileo: You can rhyme all
right. Now rhyme something reasonably readable.
Elsie: Nothing in it Heresone: Fearsome
P.0.M.C.: Old joke, ill versified G.W.P.: Sound
tipping, anyhow:—
What’s the use of writing all this tosh?
The editor will only say it’s a lot of bosh.
So what’s the use?
Brady’s Lookout: “The Bridegroom” doesn’t pull
even that weight.... Iloboe: You ask us to run a
critical eye through your verses and advise you as
to where they fail to please. Everywhere
X.X.: Tame E.F.: At least 2000 words too long.
W.O.: Dead G.E.: No kennel for the dog.
F.11.W.: Didn't quite grip C.E.S.: It might
make a par L.M.: Arrived conventionally at
expected destination S.H.: Melodramatic and un-
convincing... .M.E.M.: Might suit a woman’s paper.
V.W.: Mere fact that a girl went for a motor
ride after midnight doesn’t make a story.... E.K.P.:
Needs to be stronger... .N.A.A. and K.C.8.: Nearly
got there R.M.C.: It petered out H.C.: The
handwriting beat u5....A.5.: Plot doesn’t warrant
all those words... . J.S.: Too long. . . .Muriel: Thread-
bare. Three last lines alone would make it impos-
sible U.J.: Oratory perhaps; but not poetry
Francis J. B.: Far too long for us; but there is a
fine surge in the religious piece. “Scribner’s” or
“Harper's” might take it; but they would want it
pruned. “Flute” says nothing new at great length.
E.L.P.: Idea is worth better work.... Abe G.:
You must be young to hate the sex so much. ...
Maurice M.: Moralising in last half-dozen lines
would have been fatal if the “rosy sheep” of the
sunset hadn’t made dead mutton of it. . . .Eva: Poem
of the Paper Rose made even the basket dr00p....
Deirdre I: Too many old properties E. Els: No-
thing in it S.J.W.: Less Alimor: Your verse-
form is all right; now get some less-worn themes.
Idea in “Good and 111” was getting old when Adam
sank his teeth in the apple... .E.M.E.: “Enemy”
goes back with considerable regrets... .J.B-C.: Not
The Bulletin ; but some boys’ paper should jump
at it Jancey: A hopeless tangle.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.R.: Drawing looks as if it had been dug up
at Ur of the Chaldees with joke attached....
M.T. : Collections of fashion-plate figures. One under
consideration as suggestion L.A.L.: Only medium.
F.J.K.: Lines look as if they had just strayed
on to the paper A.E.M.: Drawings show promise.
J.J.V.: Artistic misfits... .L.D.: Not a hope
j.y.M.: On the weak side... .R.L.: You have a tre-
mendous climb ahead of you. ... J.G. ; : Two marble
busts perched on a corrugated-iron sea refused....
.T.T.H.: Still a bit stiff E. 1.: No cheques fluttering
your way W.M.: Thumbnail sketches of Trotsky
and small boy from Tottenham declined... .D.M.: An
outsider C.H.: “He looks nearly dead!” He is.
AV.O.R.: If that’s how wireless announcers look,
thank the Lord we don’t know any M.T.: Fashion-
plate drawing and antiquated jest A.L.M.1.: Un-
suitable for reproduction.


ds
d
-
il
V
m
IK
■ i
»
m
s s>
■
■
MW.
gk. , u
i&i
n
3r
II 3
•fe:.
li§§§|
K»
£
*V
11111 l
■ *
HHNi
mm.
m
|1 : - ■ IH ill pi
/
I*llllBl
m
WM
mam t m
w
ď


Vol 53. —N 0.2722.
April 13, 19.32.
HIS MAJESTY’S GOOD NAME.
HIS MAJESTY: "And great care is taken, I trust, Sir Philip, that my Minister, reflect no discredit upon the Crown."
HIS EXCELLENCY: “Oh, great care, your Majesty! For instance, the Federal High Court has just locked up the public rewenues so that your Ministers may not
get at them and misapply them.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
VicToitiA: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s,
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id, jor 60s.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. Jor 4oz. To all other
places: Id. Jor 2os.
NEW SOUTH WELSHERS.
There is really nothing complicated about
the dispute between the Commonwealth and
the Lang Government of N. S. Wales. It is
a simple matter of business morality. The
State of N. S. Wales incurred certain debts;
a great many of them were incurred by Labor
Governments to carry out the Labor
policy of State ownership and control of
public utilities—railways, tramways, water-
supply, etc. Mr. Lang says there is not enough
money to go round and, therefore, he will
not pay his overseas debts, in the shape of
interest on money borrowed for these and
other purposes. The Commonwealth says
that, apart from the fact that these are just
debts, it would seriously damage the credit
of every Government in Australia if default
was permitted. Many loans will fall due
during the next few years, and if the credit
of the Governments is bad the loans will
either not be renewed at all or only at an
excessive rate of interest. The Common-
wealth, by an agreement with the States
entered into in 1929, took over all State
debts, making itself responsible for the
interest, which was to be paid to the Fed-
eral Treasury as it fell due. The Federal
Government accordingly paid the interest on
which the Lang Government defaulted; and
the High Court has decided that the Com-
monwealth has the right to collect enough
State revenue to reimburse itself. If it had
not that right, then either the Commonwealth
must allow N. S. Wales to default, and put
up with the consequences, whatever they
might be, or use its own revenues and the
revenues of the other States to pay the just
debts of the defaulter.
Mr. Lang says that he has no regard for
just debts when he wants the money for
certain other purposes. Now, many an
honest man has been unable to pay his
debts. We have indeed set up a Bankruptcy
Court to which citizens may go, and this
Court is authorised to give h man a dis-
charge even though he may be able to pay
only a few pence in the pound of what he
owes. Btit Mr. Lang has not gone to any
Bankruptcy Court. Instead, he has himself
decided what debts he will pay and what he
will not pay: he even paid American
creditors while leaving British creditors un-
satisfied. Moreover, he took to himself the
right to say what would be done with the
new money that came into his hands. This
is a thing no Bankruptcy Court in the
world would allow. On the contrary, the
Bankruptcy Court which finds that a debtor
has been favoring some creditors at the
expense of others has an unpleasant habit
of calling him a rogue and sending him to
gaol. And it would certainly have no hesi-
tation in doing this if it could be shown
that the favored creditors were those from
whom the debtor might expect favors, while
the creditors from whom he could expect
nothing got nothing.
Mr. Lang claims, of course, that it is
statesmanship to take from those who have
to give to those who have not. Robin
Hood had ideas of the same sort. But at
least Robin Hood was not a politician
dependent upon votes and aware that some
votes could be bought with stolen money.
Certainly, though there may be strong sus-
picions the other way; it is quite possible
that Mr. Lang does not give a thought to
votes, one way or the other. He may
honestly believe that the circumstances of
the time demand that those who have any-
thing should be despoiled of it for the
benefit of those who have nothing. He may
honestly believe that contracts should be
tom up when they do not suit one party
to them, and promises to pay disregarded.
But it is nothing at all that Mr. Lang
believes this; he might honestly believe that
savings bank deposits should be comman-
deered for the public benefit and workers’
homes made public property for the general
use of the community. Many of the great-
est crimes the world has ever witnessed
have been committed by men who honestly
believed they not only had a right but
were required by their duty to God and
man to commit them. There is scarcely
a criminal lunatic in our asylums who did
not honestly believe he was called upon
to do some outrageous thing for the benefit
of humanity.
We can therefore give Mr. Lang the
benefit of any doubt there may be as to his
personal honesty and disinterestedness, and
still believe that he and his Government
are a menace and a curse, and that the
greatest sufferers from their policy must be
the very people whom they profess to serve.
For Australia there is only one way out of
its distresses. It must have confidence in
itself, and it must win the .confidence of
those overseas with whom it necessarily
must have dealings. The bookmaker on the
racecourse may win temporary release from
his troubles by welshing; but it will be hard
for him to get back the confidence which
alone can give him prosperity. He might
plead that what he did he did for the sake
of his wife and family. We should tell him
that he could best serve his wife and
family by going straight. And that is the
simple, straightforward thing which, in
effect, the Commonwealth Parliament, with
the sanction of the High Court, has told
the Lang Government of N. S. Wales.
WHY DO LOW PRICES MATTER?
At first sight the cause of our distress seems
quite plain. There has been such a fall in
che prices we get for our products that
wool, wheat and other staples for which
we got £2 in 1924-25 now bring us less than
£l. And the same is true of almost every
nation; the crash in prices is universal—
it affects coffee as much as wheat, and
rubber more than wool. The raw-product
countries were first to feel the pinch; they
were the direct sufferers. But soon the
great industrial nations were floundering,
too; for as the value of the raw products
fell away, so did the orders for manufac-
tured goods. Indeed, though the industrial
countries’ sufferings did not begin quite
as soon, they were greater when they did
arrive; for whereas a man can live on the
unsaleable grain he produces, he can get
no sustenance at all out of an unmarket-
able motor-truck.
But it is not a good thing to accept
any apparently obvious truth with the eyes
shut; and this apparently obvious truth is
well worth analysis. First, is a variation
in price-levels, either a rise or a fall, neces-
sarily of any consequence at all? Second,
if it isn’t, what makes it of consequence?
If prices are high a wholly self-contained
country merely takes out much money from
one pocket to put it back, neither more nor
less, into the other pocket; if prices are
low, then it both gets little and pays little.
But though the national wealth is thus un-
affected, one group may become rich at the
expense of the other. If a farmer borrows
£3OO at a time when wheat is 6s. a bushel,
what he really borrows is 1000 bushels of
wheat; he could repay the debt the next
day (if repayment at his option were pro-
vided for) by selling that quantity of
his crop. But if wheat falls to 25., then the
farmer must produce and sell 3000 bushels
of wheat to satisfy the debt. The lender,
if the interest were fixed at 6 p.c., got
enough in the first year with wheat at 6s.
a bushel to buy 60 bushels of wheat. If
wheat falls to 2s. a bushel, he gets enough
to buy 180 bushels. But he does not need
any more wheat than he did before; he
has therefore a surplus of 120 bushels either
to spend on other things or to put away.
It is the same with all fixed incomes. If
prices fall one-half, the man on £3OO a
year is as well off as he would previously
have been on £6OO.
It is these fixed charges and commit-
ments that cause all the trouble. But for
them, variations in prices would not matter
two straws so far as the self-contained
country in the mass is concerned. If to-
morrow we cut all our notes in halves and
made it law that each half would be there-
after a complete note, we would be not a
penny either worse or better off; the shop-
keeper would simply double his prices;
the article that was marked £2 would be
raised to £4. But if a man owed £3OO on a
mortgage at 6 p.c., he would not take £S
along when the next quarter’s interest fell
due—he would proffer only the old £4 10s.,
though it would now buy but half as much.
And if the principal were repayable he
would tender the old £3OO and not £6OO.
On the other hand, if through a fall in
prices the £4 10s. would buy twice as much,
the lender would still insist upon getting
the full amount.
But while a wholly self-contained nation
is neither better nor worse off in the mass
through price variations—the individuals
making up the nation, of course, may be—
as soon as a country goes into debt to some
other country, then price variations are a
matter of enormous national importance.
So long as it does not borrow it can look
with indifference, as a rule, upon a great
fall in what is called the price index—that
is, the general average level of commodity
prices. In 1926-27 Australia got just about
twice as much for its exports as it would
have got had the 1901 prices prevailed; on
the other hand, it paid almost exactly the
same percentage more for its imports. Now
this meant two things in particular: (1) that
£lOO borrowed by Australia in 1901 could
have been repaid in 1926-27 by the delivery
of half as much wool, wheat, etc., as it
would have had to deliver in 1901; (2)
that new loans were raised on the basis of
high prices, and that, seeing that they all
came to Australia in the shape of imports,
we were getting rather less for each £lOO
than we would have got for £5O a few years
before. The painfully obvious thing to do in
the circumstances w r as to pay off old debts
and refuse to enter into new ones. The
times had loaded the dice against us. Yet
we were fools enough to play. And not only
play, but do it more recklessly than we
had ever done before. That is what has
landed us in the mess.
Not a word can be said in defence of the
present monetary system. A yardstick that
is capable of measuring 15 inches at one
time and 36 inches at another is too absurd
altogether. Actually our Australian exports
in 1924-25 were valued at £162,030,159,
whereas on the 1901 prices they were worth
£58,373.048. Thus the yardstick which meas-
ured out 36 inches at one time measured
out only 13 inches at another! One inevit-
able result is that every time prices are high
there is a boom, because everybody with
money is urging people to borrow and spend,
knowing that they will lend on the 13-inch
yardstick, and stand a very good chance
presently of being paid back on the 36-inch
basis. And every time prices fall there is a
cry, mainly from those who are pinched,
to stop the deflation and puff up prices
again. For 150 years at least attempts have
been made to solve this problem of vary-
ing prices: as far back as that, a “goods
standard” was produced. It is a matter for
serious consideration, however, whether we
should not leave the standard alone and
concentrate on fixed charges and commit-
ments. For, as we have seen, they consti-
tute practically the whole of the trouble.
Two and a half years ago The Bulletin
put forward the proposition that Australia
might, at its next loan-conversion, under-
take to pay interest of a constant value —
in other Words, that the nominal rate of
interest should move up and down with the
rises and falls in price-levels. Most people
take these investments in order to get the
utmost security of principal and interest.
Under the present system they get neither;
they never know when half their capital
or their interest may melt into thin air
Under the plan proposed, people would
know what their income would purchase at
any given time; and the purchasing power
of their capital would never vary. Actually
we are already adopting a modification of
that system: our basic wage is governed by
the cost of living, which again is deter-
mined by index price-figures of commodities
—where, that is, some rascal does not
sabotage our social machinery.
The efforts at stabilisation have thus far
been direct. It is worth considering whether
this indirect method would not offer far
less difficulty and remove nine-tenths of the
ill-effects which variations in price-levels
produce. It would be no more difficult
to provide for “fixed” payments to be made
on the basis of commodity prices than on
the present basis.
UNCLE SAM PASSES THE BUCK.
No sooner had the Japanese guns ceased
reverberating at Shanghai than Uncle Sam’s
Lower House passed, with a big majority,
a bill granting independence to the Philip-
pines on the expiration of eight years. The
reasons given were economic. As part of
the United States the ex-Spanish colony
could send her sugar into the States tariff-
free and undercut the domestic product as
well as the Cuban crop, in which Sam has
invested millions of dollars. Moreover, the
Filipino is immune from the immigration
laws.
But, though the reasons given were eco-
nomic, there may have been others.
When Nippon seized Manchuria and
devastated Shanghai, using an American
settlement as a base, Uncle Sam began to
talk war and even moved his Grand Fleet
into the Pacific. But he didn’t use it.
For one thing, the distance seemed so great.
For another, there was a dark suspicion
that the Fleet wasn’t as grand as it looked,
so that if war were declared the Philippines
cocoanut might fall into Nippon’s lap, and
Uncle’s prestige would be damaged con-
siderably. But if the Filipino were granted
the independence which he says he wants,
then Uncle would be under no obligation
to protect him from a foreign foe. Further-
more, he has been promised independence
continuously since 1898, and has been pro-
gressively educated in the art of self-gov-
ernment on Yankee lines ever since—so
much so that the American Governor has
been reduced to the status of an Australian
Governor-General, and the country swarms
with native politicians and bureaucrats who
have nothing to learn from their white
friends in the matter of corruption and
nepotism.
A free and self-governing Philippines
would immediately become of first-class
interest to various Powers, those most
closely concerned being Britain, Holland,
France and Japan. Holland and France
can, however, be ruled out. They would
have to align themselves with either Britain
or Japan. Japan is the handiest and has the
most to gain. There is four times more
rice land in the Philippines than there is
in Japan. The Jap has never showrn any
eagerness to migrate to lands colder than
his own, but he might be induced to migrate
to the warm climate of the Philippines.
Also, the acquisition of the islands would
complete the blockade of the Asiatic coast.
The line now runs from Saghalien, through
Japan to Formosa, with an offshoot into the
Pacific via the Caroline and Marshall
Islands. British Hongkong would be
isolated, and China would become a Japan-
ese preserve. If unaided by Britain, the
JNetneilands Indies would be an easy mark,
and part of the Dutch dominions touches
Australia in New Guinea, while Timor is
within eight hours’ flying distance of the
Northern Territory.
Ihe Philippines comprise seven thousand
or so islands with a population approaching
20 millions. Except for some insignificant
aboriginal tribes in the mountains, the people
are a branch of the Malay race. Of course,
the Filipino may develop a hitherto unex-
pected capacity for governing himself, like
the Siamese. But the Siamese are only
semi-Malay stock, they have a distinguished
imperialistic history running back 500 years,
when they conquered Burma, Cambodia
and part of Malaya, and they are ruled by
a thoroughly efficient autocrat. There is
no record of a successful Malay democracy.
The Malay proper has produced only two
individuals of note—a painter in Java and
the revolutionary patriot Rizal in the
Philippines. In British Malaya the Malay
makes a capable if leisurely subordinate.
The native Malay kingdoms are notable
mainly for ineptitude. When foreign rule
has been withdrawn they have usually taken
on the profession of piracy—all the inde-
pendent Malay kingdoms of the Dutch East
Indies have been piratical.
The Malays of the Philippines are
divided into Christians and Mohammedans,
and they fly at each other’s throats when-
ever the opportunity occurs. The commer-
cial community is composed of Chinese
and Japs. Whenever in the past they have
become uncomfortably numerous, the indig-
enes have reduced them to handier propor-
tions by massacre. If Uncle hands the
Filipino the ■ sacred charter of liberty in
eight years’ time, the fighting Mohamme-
dans will descend on the white-collar
Christians of Manila, and there will be
hell to pay. The Filipino of Manila has a
passion for education, because it enables
him -to buy a white collar and become a
lawyer or a politician with the typical
Malay talent for loquacity. The Com-
munist party, which is strong in the
Philippines, will also make itself heard. In
the resultant chaos foreigners—including
Japanese—would be likely to get hurt.
Plenty of good reasons would thus be pro-
vided to justify the intervention of a reso-
lute and energetic Power. And all the world
knows what intervention means in all such
cases.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Eight Months’ Trade.
The overseas trade figures are still quite
satisfactory. For the first eight months of
this financial year, converting everything
to sterling, we are £22,050,000 to the good
on merchandise exports over imports; and
if the excess of gold shipments over imports
is added, the total goes up to £26,162,000.
But of the £4,112,000 of gold exported in
excess of imports, exchange and prior hoard-
ing may be responsible for close upon one-
half. Exports of current production for the
eight months are probably a little less than
25 millions ahead of imports, as compared
with about 6 millions in the corresponding
months of 1930-31; for the same eight months
of 1929-30 the excess of merchandise imports
was no less than £31,657,000. Looking back
even from this distance on those figures,
they seem almost incredible. It was the
end of a drunken orgy; and the man who
wants to pass his share of the headache on
to the next person has queer ideas about
plajdng the game.
The job the surplus of exports has to do
is to pay the interest on our overseas debt.
Approximately, this takes 30 millions a
year; and at our present rate we shall lay
up another 12 millions, independent of any
old gold we may put on the market, in the
remaining four months. On present figures
we shall therefore have at least 8 millions
sterling waiting in London at the end of
June. The fact that we have this nest-
egg will greatly help us in handling over-
seas debts as they fall due. Fortunately,
our overseas maturities during the next
few years are not staggering:—
1932- . £12,992,904 1936-37. . £3,409,706
1933- 13,713,586 1938-39.. 1,246
1934- 15,603,139 1939-40.. 2,526,478
1935- 14,312,201 1940-41.. 5,606,500
After that our liabilities will begin to pour
in upon us—in the ensuing four years we
shall have to face maturities of no less than
105 millions. What we shall be able to do
with them depends upon our behavior
meantime. A saving of 2 p.c. on the maturi-
ties of the next 12 years will make a differ-
ence to us of no less than 3i millions; and
2 p.c. is a very small figure to allow for
the difference between a good risk and a
doubtful one.
O
The Worker Who Has Lost Hope.
This comes from an old 'contributor whom
The Bulletin has long known as a thought-
ful member of one of the biggest city labor
unions:—•
1 work among a big body of plain men, who make
no attempt to hide their thoughts and have not
developed the art of dissimulation. It is not the
sacrifices that matter, they could be put up with;
it is the hopeless outlook that is getting them down.
They have no fixed views about the cure of their
ills, they only know that a Labor party will stave
off disaster for a while by a still-heavier wage tax
and that a Nationalist party will try to solve the
problem with drastic wage-cuts. The future to
them being black, they are ready to embrace any


policy that promises a solution of the V™b\em,
all they are concerned about is stopping the drift
They are not concerned overmuch whether S
or W! they «* to w, « “
why their children should go without for the ben
of oversea bondholders. 1 have already remarked
that thev are not analysts, 'the first body of thought
that comes out with a concrete plan is going to get
thousands of adherents among the workeis I W°u
suggest that a body representing all fought be
immediately set up to bring about a five ;^ r
of reconstruction. The future of our nation Is <
stake, and surely Australia is worth saving.
I want it to be distinctly understood that I am
writing of a body of men who are among the best
citizens of the State, law-abiding, with a clean
industrial record and with probably _ the _
percentage of home-buyers in any union in IN. is.
Wales. They have, with few exceptions, taken on
commitments, and with wage tax and rationing
(many of them are supporting fathers, brothels “
sisters out of work), they see nothing ahead of them
but the loss of the savings of many years invested
in homes or furniture or insurance policies or tne
like. It is up to thinkers to find a way out, oi
a way out will be found without the thinkers.
On which The Bulletin makes these obser-
vations in a spirit of utter friendliness.
Let us first clear our minds of cant. “I am
writing,” our friend says, “of a body of men who
are among the best citizens of the State, law-abiding,
etc And no doubt they think they are. But
“they are not concerned overmuch whether Lang
defaults or pays; they want to pay, but cannot see
why their children should go without for the benefit
of oversea bondholders.” Let us ask ourselves
whether a person who would like to pay his debts,
hut is only prepared to do it if it causes him
no inconvenience, can be even a decent citizen, le
alone a good one? In ordinary iife and in normal
times we should simply call him a rogue
Can we therefore be surprised if we find that
what these people really want is not a solution of
the problem, but a solution that doesn’t hurt them
very much? The hard facts of the case they will not
face. Those facts are that for many years Australia
has been living partly on the pawnshop; between
1925 and 1930 the States alone pawned over
£100,000,000 of their assets and spent the proceeds
in inflating the people’s incomes, including wages
and salaries. Now, of course, there have to he cuts
in our wages and salaries. We can repudiate every
public debt we’ve got, and we will still he driven
to make cuts in our wages and salaries.
No doubt there is one other way ; we can go in
for a more vigorous policy of inflation than we have
hitherto practised. But that will be only a policy
of self-deception—like the man who, having punished
the whisky bottle too severely yesterday, pours in
water to make himself believe that he will not have
to go on short commons to-day and to-morrow.
If the situation is faced there is no hopelessness
about it. Few of us, certainly, are as well off as
we thought we were; but many of us are a great
deal better off than for the moment we think we
are. Moreover, what many of us have lost we really
never had —it was only boom froth. If, instead
of thinking of our present condition compared with
that of, say, three or four years ago, we compared
it with that of, say, the few years before the war,
we should get a truer view. What happened fiom
1914 onwards was entirely abnormal; and we can
no more use it as a standard of comparison than a
man under dope can use the period of his exaltation
as a standard. One set of figures alone is sufficient
to show what a dope-dream we have been living in.
The value of Australia’s material production in 1911
was £188,359,000, equal to £4l 4s. per head of
the population. By 1924-25 the value of the Pro-
duction had grown to £454,634,000 or £77 Bs,
per head. That looked fine; and we threw out our
chests and went off and borrowed another 50 millions.
What in our dope-dream we did not realise was
that prices averaged 88 per cent, more in the latter
than the former year. Our real production per head,
measured in retail purchasing power, was on the
average less than it was in 1911. In 1929-30 it
was no less than 17 per cent, below the 1911 figure.
(‘‘Commonwealth Year-Book,” 1931 ; p. 746.) xet
we thought that we could afford to live far more
extravagantly 'than did in the pre-war days.
It is time we left off tolling ourselves that we
are plain men, who make no attempt to hide our
thoughts and have not developed the art of dissimu-
lation. It is time we asked ourselves whether we
are not dishonest men who won’t let ourselves think
thoughts that might lead us to awkward conclusions,
time we asked ourselves whether we are not the
worst and most dangerous kind of dissimulators in
the world—the sort that gull themselves, that mislead
themselves into doing all manner of foolish and
disastrous things.
The Right of Comment.
The De Groot incident at the opening of
the Sydney Harbor Bridge and the subse-
quent police-court proceedings may well be
forgotten; but one matter arising out of
the commotion on the first day of the trial
calls for a protest, There is strong evidence
that on this occasion the police discrimin-
ated between members of the New Guard,
who are known to be hostile to the Lang
Government, and their opponents, who may
be taken to be enthusiastic supporters of
that Government; and if it is _ true that
unnecessary violence was used in dealing
with the Government’s opponents, while
equally and possibly more demonstrative
friends were disregarded, a very serious
state of things is disclosed. Hitherto the
N. S. Wales public has had the greatest
confidence in the impartiality of the police;
and it will be a tragedy if that trust is lost
or even shaken. The Lang Government
has sovietised many State institutions; it
would be the last straw if it attempted
with any success at all to sovietise the
poliee.
Printed descriptions of what occurred
during the commotion are liable to be
biased; on such occasions men see pretty
generally what they w T ant to see. But
moving pictures were taken of the occur-
rences, and this was one of the occasions
when the camera would provide the best
possible evidence of what actually did
happen. Yet, on the ridiculous ground
that the case —presumably the case against
De Groot over something that occurred a
fortnight earlier —was svp judiee, Lang’s
Chief Secretary Gosling ordered that the
pictures should not be shown. The next
step (and a proper step if this was a
proper step) will be to order the news-
papers not to print any reports of incidents
which might reflect upon the Government
or any body acting under its direction; and
from that to an order forbidding comment
upon any Government action whatever will
be a very short step. Already, indeed, some-
thing approaching that step has been taken;
for. if there are not obvious rewards in the
shape of copious Government advertise-
ments for papers that will _ say Lang is
right, there has been the denial of Govern-
ment advertisements to a paper of such high
repute as the “S. M. Herald,” which dares
to say that Lang is wrong.
Lang may be right, so far as his past
policy is concerned. Whether he is right or
most wrong is a matter of opinion. But
if the people are to be denied an oppor-
tunity of judging on the facts, then Lang
cannot be right, because he will be making
an attack upon the very foundations of our
system of self-government.
Southern Ireland.
The admirable Mr. Lyons will be regarded
by many people in Australia as having ex-
ceeded his duty in appealing to the Gov-
ernment of the Irish Free State not. to take
action likely to endanger the unity of the
British Commonwealth of Nations and the
relationship of the Free State to the
United Kingdom and the sister Dominions.
The evident spirit of friendship behind the
Australian Premier’s appeal will, however,
excuse what otherwise came near to an im-
pertinence. Any attempt on the part of the
Free State to intrude on Australian political
questions would not be received with popu-
lar approval in this country, and the con-
verse is as true.
Notwithstanding Mr. Lyons’s message, it
is doubtful whether the secession of the
Free State would cause the other units of the
British Commonwealth of Nations to shed
many tears. To put the matter bluntly,
the Free State and the people it stands for
to-day have long been accorded tocy great
an importance by Britain and the Umpire
generally, while its nationals, living. undci
the protection of the British flag in the
other Dominions, have always been fore-
most in anti-imperial propaganda, which
has sometimes, as in the case of the second
Boer War, been extended to physical
opposition.
It has been suggested that there is
danger to the Empire in the adoption of a
separatist attitude by the Free State, since
the latter might be used by an enemy
attacking Britain as a point d’appui from
which to menace the centre of the Empire
and the great trade routes to America and
the south and east. The danger, though
tangible, is remote. The experiences of
invading armies which have gained a foot-
hold in Ireland have not been agreeable.
There is no reason to suppose that such a
force could not be as effectively isolated
and dealt with, if necessary, as others before
it have been. As to the possibility of the Free
State assisting the enemy in other ways,
the danger would probably be no greater
than it has been. Anti-British Ireland has
always been an espionage centre for enemy
Powers, while during the Great War German
submarines found shelter and fuelling facili-
ties in the deeply indented coastline of
south-western Ireland without question. At
the worst, in northern Ireland the Empire
has an ideal position on a vulnerable flank
wherefrom to control, in conjunction with
the naval forces, any serious threat from
the South. But it is not likely any serious
threat would come—we should probably be
a great deal better friends separated than
ever we have been united.
♦ .
This and Past “Famines.”
It does nobody any good to be continually
told that the depression which has hit us
is by far the worst that ever was, and that
no other period and no other people was
ever set- such an appalling task. It is ridicu-
lously untrue, anyway: there was never a
time of world-wide adversity and unemploy-
ment when those unable to find work suf-
fered so little. For the most part they are
comparatively well fed and the hospitals are
quite capable of caring for their sick; m
past times of great distress men, women and
children have died by the thousand of star-
vation and disease. “Mechanisation,” we are
being continually assured, is responsible for
to-day’s unemployment: the machine has
displaced the man. We have only to turn
to the history of the world’s famines to find
an answer to that. Modern industrialism
has brought its disadvantages, but it has
practically eliminated that positive shortage
of production which in the Irish famine ol
1846-47, to mention only one of hundreds
of similar horrors, was responsible for oyer
half a million deaths. The world to-day
suffers not from famine but rather from
glut; and those administrators of the past
who had to deal with famine would surely
regard it as the supreme jest if they were
told that an over-supply of food is as bad
as a terrible shortage of it.
“The Business of Dying.”
“Puyyaka” further discusses this:—
To me it seems that the writer (B. 30/3/’32)
confuses the business of dying with its preliminaries.
You and I and all humanity will die from one
cause, and one cause only—lack of oxygen. Whether
that ’lack will come about from failure of the brain-
cells which control the breathing muscles, or of the
lungs, or of the heart, matters not. What will
actually deprive us of life will be a breakdown
of the mechanism which supplies the body tissues
with oxygen. Whether the preliminaries leading up
to this failure are consumption or cholera or hanging
or cancer or starvation or typhoid fever or a bullet
or apoplexy, matters not. Oxygen is essential to
the body tissues; when the supply fails they can
function no more, and we die.
The first effect of oxygen deprivation is on the
brain. For the vast majority the process of dying
will begin by a steady dulling of the intellectual
faculties, will go on gradually to failure of the
senses, and will pass into unconsciousness. Less than
five minutes of total deprivation of oxygen is
sufficient to kill the brain, although the heart may
continue to beat feebly for hours It is * mererful
business; Nature anaesthetises us for the operatio ,
as she does for the much greater physical discomfort
° f Modwn b knowledge does an incalculable kindness
in mitigating the preliminaries of dying, physical
and mental. Pain can be prevented, discomfort from
a failing heart or lungs mitigated by drugs,
example, oxygen, properly administered, a ®
miraculous effect in pneumonia, bringing the suite. ei
back from stress of suffocation to comparative p y-
sical comfort, in a few minutes, Even if the over
taxed heart fails later, his last hours have been
freed from great bodily distress. Social conditions,
too, have mitigated much of the mental shock
attendant on the realisation of impending death. A
man with a dependent family, struck down by
sudden fatal illness or accident, will face his ending
more calmly if he knows that they are armed agains
want by an insurance policy or other inheritance.
Of the actual sensation of death I can speak
from two personal experiences. By drowning, the
last conscious reaction was one of fierce inten
struggle to reach the sunlit surface, of a grim
fighting resolution to hold on to the air in my lungs
-then a swirl in the head like milk boiling over
and extinction. There were no pictures of the
past, no fear, nothing except a concentrated effort
to hold on. From septic poisoning, it was a painles ,
lazy slide into sleep, with a faintly amused realisa-
tion that this was the rather futile ending to such
a lot of fuss and bother of living.
Uncle Sam as a Taxpayer.
Uncle Hoover, of the United Sta..t es , is
winding up his financial year with a big
deficit, which is an unusual experience ior
Uncle. As a consequence his political parties
tend to get together and consider schemes
for raising revenue. It is a habit of Uncle
to regard direct taxation as a sort ol per-
sonal insult, and he never inflicts it on him-
self if he can help it. This, according to
“Whitaker’s Almanac,” was the taxation per
head of nine countries for 1925-26:
U. Kingdom.. £l5 2 8 France 5 10
Australia .. 12 19 9 Canada •• 6 19 4
Maoriland ■. 12 7 11 U.S. .. • • „ r
S. Africa „ „ Germany ®
(white) .. 11 17 2 Italy .. -.3 8 9
These were good times for Uncle, for his
country hadn’t been damaged by war. He
wasn’t' borrowing money abroad like Aus-
tralia, but had money to lend abroad. In-
stead of importing largely and exporting
little, as England did and as the Australian
did even worse, he cultivated an enormous
surplus of exports, and collected the favor-
able balance in gold till he became the
greatest gold-owner and gold-hoarder m the
world. Then the United Kingdom decided
to buy less abroad, even if the Freetrade
fetich was damaged to some extent, and
Australia and certain South American
States, which had the bad habit of paying
for their ridiculous superabundance of
imported goods with borrowed money, had
to do the same. As a result of these and
other things, Uncle Hoover’s foreign sales
fell off, and for the first time in many years
exports were less than imports, and a big
shortage promised in his revenue accoimt.
It was quite an ordinary circumstance, but
it is nearly breaking Uncle’s heart to pay
taxes on something like the same scale as
an ordinary person. Even when a big deficit
became practically certain, a proposal for so
ordinary a thing as a sales tax was rejected
as beneath Uncle’s dignity. Still, after the
first petulant resistance, there was enough
Puritan commonsense on the premises to
make Congress realise that dignity and a
huge deficit don’t make a pair, and parties
have come together in a manner that others
in worse difficulties might profitably follow.
Education in Australia.
The judgment of a teacher of wide experi-
GIICG I
The real trouble with our system lies in the
tendency to magnify secondary training at the
expense of the primary. Too much stress is placed
upon pushing all and sundry into the high schools,
with the result that primary-school pupils get an
insufficient grounding and the secondary institutions
contain large numbers who can never benefit
by their course. More discretion is needed in
selecting candidates for higher education, and
the standard of entrance should be so arranged that
the State can be assured that it is giving oppor-
tunities to the best brains. _
Australia scatters its annual 121 million pounds
over a wide area, so that the reward to individual
teachers is not great; consequently the best types
(of young men, particularly) are not attracted to
the teaching profession in normal times. Economy
with increased efficiency could be effected by centrali-
sation in rural districts; and where this is im-
practicable an extension of the correspondence
system is possible, the latter method being capable
of assistance from wireless with intelligent organi-
sation Incidentally, I have had experience with
several children taught by correspondence, and they
compare very favorably with those instructed orally.
In every ' case, too, the curriculum is so over-
loaded that the essential subjects cannot get the
attention they deserve. Each year primary school
teachers are increasingly concerned at having turned
out pupils without the ability to “figure” accurately
or to write intelligible English. If there is much
about Australian education that is unwanted, there
is still more that is urgently needed.
Christ and the Bagman.
“Gad”: The prevailing opinion on the road
in regard to Christianity seems to be one of
sturdy pessimism. I have met at least
a dozen intelligent bagmen who tried to
prove to me that Jesus of Nazareth never
lived. The majority, however, seem to
take for granted the existence of Jesus, but
are generally of the opinion that His
mission was political rather than religious;
that he was a sturdy Communist, occupy-
ing much the same position as Gandhi does
in the political arena to-day; that he
martyred in the same sense as they believe
Saccho and Vanzetti were; and that it
Jesus were to return to earth He would be
done to death exactly as the two Italo-
American Communists were —at the .behest
of capitalism and with the connivance oi
those very ministers who have turned the
mission of Jesus into, they aver, a huge
monev-making concern.”
In the whole course of my experience on
the road (now extending into a period ot
over eight months) I have met only one
bagman who admitted going to church even
as a matter of occasional practice; and 1
have met droves of men who viewed the
Church, as an organisation, with great
enmity and contempt. Searching for
reasons, I discovered these two principal
sources of hostility:—
(1) The belief—very strongly held—that all
clergymen are parasites, and members of the
“exploiting class.”
(2) The belief that the Church is always arrayed
on the anti-labor side and against the interests of
the working class generally.
Yet I have noticed that in individual cases
where a bagman has been helped by a
priest or parson, this fact is generally (even
generously) acknowledged; but I have not
come across a single instance of any bag-
man acknowledging the good deeds or
organised charity, though he may have
derived substantial assistance from it. And
I have particularly noticed an extreme
form of hostility displayed—quite unani-
mously—against one particular organisation
of this sort, whose comprehensive schemes
of “charitable” assistance might have been
presumed at least to earn the passing tribute
of a brief acknowledgment. But no!
It might be asked why people expect
assistance, or seek it, from church ministeis
when they are so frankly out of harmony
with them. The answer is that the average
bagman (by this term I mean men on the
road at the present time) expects assist-
ance because he firmly believes he has been
cheated out of his proper share in the dis-
tribution of the nation’s wealth—as a
worker, when in work. And that it is his
right to be assisted now. Which, in this
particular connection, means that he be-
lieves the clergyman is still living on him
(because the clergyman has never worked,
according to his view), and should sur-
render part of his ill-gotten goods (food,
etc.); also he is prompted by curiosity to
discover whether these people (clergymen)
“practise what they preach.”
Of course it might be pointed out that
the bagman expects a greater measure of
consideration than he is willing to extend
to other people. This is undoubtedly so:
and from my own experience I would say
that very few men on the road possess any
very clear insight into the true essence of
Christian teaching, and have no really inti-
mate knowledge of the Bible—even as a
historical record.
Something is wrong somewhere when, in
this allegedly Christian country, such views
as I have indicated can be so strongly held
by so many people.
♦
The Sacredness of Contract.
The most disquieting feature of Australian
politics to-day is the wide acceptance of the
proposition that no irksome contract oi
agreement need be honored. This is really 7
what the newest development of the Lang
Plan means: if it would inconvenience us
to pay interest, then we need not scruple
to leave it unpaid. It is the gospel of the
strong and merciless. Civilisation, struggling
to protect the weak, has affirmed the sanc-
tity of contract; otherwise only those who
could enforce payment ever would be paid.
It is a dreadful thing to see such safe-
guards attacked by Labor, of all parties.
Women especially _ ought to set them-
selves resolutely against this assault upon
the citadel of the weak. If the policy of
encouraging men to tear up agreements that
don’t suit them becomes established, no-
body is going to suffer like the wives and
the children.
Boiler Inspection.
Dear Bulletin, —It is time attention was
drawn to the unsatisfactory condition of
steam-boiler inspection in N. S. Wales. The
Department of Labor and Industry put
through Parliament a measure giving it con-
trol of boilers in factories, and proceeded
to carry out periodical examinations by
persons adjudged by the Minister to be
competent. This arrangement worked satis-
factorily. The steam-roller and tractor on
a public highway are not affected. Its boiler
can burst if it feels that way, and the reason
it. doesn’t burst is that it is constructed
to stand five times the working pressure
assigned, and by the time it becomes Dan-
gerous through corrosion it will not hold
enough steam to burst a kettle. Mr. Badly
wanted to improve matters. His first inten-
tion under pressure of the Boilermakers
Union was to appoint a board to control all
steam boilers, but opposition narrowed his
sphere to factories. When certain clauses oi
the bill were rejected by the Legislative
Council, Badly assumed the rqle of the nark,
and sacked all the inspectors, without pro-
viding an alternative safeguard against
accident. Steam-users are now at a loss to
know what to do. There is the law: Thou
shalt have thy boiler inspected”; yet appli-
cants for an inspector receive a reply
to the effect that there are not any autho-
rised persons to do the inspecting. \' hat
the outcome of this muddle will be remains
to be seen; meantime, if a boiler bursts
the guilt is Badly’s.—Yours faithfully,
Safety First.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
..,™„JL STABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID TH UP R, . S “ „„ 50 „
RESERVE FUND 4300000 5 a
RESERVE CAPITAL iS 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
M lAupc AJUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
H Ma i° r -General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
nMY^ASJ H D,TF?, r !' SLOW ' V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
_ _ General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street,
ii u London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Federij TprHtorv o * l4 NeW u S ° Uth Wale ?* Victori a> South Australia, and at CanDerra,
Ter itory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
n the world.
a r-f- Ban^n S anc * Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Diamond Engagement Mings
£2O
The di.iuno.uLs used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems. the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
ra
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE:
I I 6 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET 1
POLITICAL
POINTS
After all the fierce talk, in Parliament
and elsewhere, about the sacred duty of
seceding from the Commonwealth if the Com-
monwealth didn’t let Lang bilk his State’s
creditors, or pay the bill itself and go bung
that way, secession was not mentioned at
the conference of the Lang faction. But the
savage threats as to what would happen if
Lang lost the High Court case had to be
implemented if the Strong Man pose were to
be maintained. One difficulty was lack of
precedents. Karl Marx omitted to provide
for such a contingency, nor could any en-
lightenment. be got from Miller’s “Sporting
Guide.” But the idea of repudiation is
“There you are, old bird. Wings clipped at
last.”
“You’re a Tory liar.”
always in Lang’s mind; so when N.S.W.
income taxpayers were directed by proclama-
tion to pay the swindled Commonwealth,
Lang repudiated the agreement under which
Federal and State taxes are fixed and col-
lected by the State office and had the assess-
ing branch closed. It was an utterly futile,
as well as lawless, proceeding; but it is held
by fools to justify the claim that “Lang
does things.”
When the Financial Agreements Enforce-
ment Bill became effective, Gosling, who
as Chief Secretary, might have been
expected to ride the whirlwind and direct
the storm, found it convenient to re-
move himself to Temora. There he
delivered a speech asserting that Lang’s
name would go down to posterity along
with those of Parkes and Wentworth.
The comparison is rough on both departed
worthies, especially Parkes. Henry’s private
finances were .sometimes embarrassed, but he
never broke a bank or cheated the public
creditors of their interest. Neither did he
have the receiver in when Premier—and he
was five times Premier —of N. S. Wales.
The people who stage unemployed demon-
strations in Melbourne have no luck. One
procession was spoilt by a dog fight; another,
arranged to coincide with the opening of the
State Parliament, was moving along Flinders-
street when “Herald” vans exhibited the
poster “Phar Lap Dead.” Depression van-
ished from every face, there was a rush for
first editions, papers were passed from hand
to hand, and the protest against capitalism
degenerated into an argument as to “who
poisoned him.”
In the carefree Labor days it was common
for a Queensland civil servant to send in his
resignation—with a string to it—and then
stand for Parliament. Provided he was of
the right color his job was always waiting
for him if he had to go back to it. Civil-
service candidates will be numerous next
month ; one, J. P>. Costin, is opposing Premier
Moore in Aubigny. Costin is a district in-
spector in the State Insurance Department.
The “Labor Daily” reports a harrowing
result of the depression—the hat is being
taken round for Alderman Donald Grant,
M.L.C. This has happened before when the
impecunious party was a plain M.L.C.,
but never in the case of an M.L.C. who was
also an alderman of the city with the motto
“I Take but I never Surrender.” Times are
indeed hard.
The Sydney Harbor Bridge having been
completed, and Captain de Groot having
opened it, while Premier Lang looked on
with an agitated expression like Jonah’s
when he met the whale, there was the un-
pleasant necessity of getting rid of the
bridge-builders. Because their work was
done, there was apparently no other expedi-
ent, for it is difficult to go on fighting for
the sake of the pay after the war is over.
But in the “S. M. Herald” of April 5
appeared the news: “A large number of
Public Works employees who were dismissed
immediately after the Harbor Bridge was
opened will be reinstated to-morrow- •• •
They will work 30 hours per week.” Appa-
rently they are to build the bridge over again
and vote for Lang at the same time.
“Of course, you can never be like us,” the
song runs, “but be as like us as you’re able
to be.” One can imagine the Sydney A.L.P.
singing it to the Sydney U.A.P. and the
latter listening intently. Having committed
itself to pre-selection, and having put
Stevens in the place left vacant by Bavin,
the U.A.P., as the “S. M. Herald” said,
“decided that Caucus should select the per-
sonnel of future Ministries, the leader of
the party merely allotting the portfolios.”
It only needs a few ballot-boxes with sliding
panels to make the new machine a perfect
replica of “the common enemy’s.”
A rehash of mouldy courses was served up
as a vice-regal speech at the opening of the
Vic. Parliamentary session: it was remark-
able only for the omission of a pledge that
the Premiers’ plan would be continued in
1932-33. A test vote on unemployment
administration is likely this week. Sub-
tracting the absent Hogan and his pair, the
tally is: Labor, 29; U.A.P., 16; Cockies. 14;
Independents, 3. So the Independents
(Glowery. B. Gray and McLachlan) still
hold the balance of power.
Lang’s newspaper, the one to which he lent
£13,000 at 5 p.c. (and no dashed mora-
torium !), excelled itself when the Boss was
beaten again in the High Court. “The
Financial Agreements Enforcement Act,” it
yelled, “was born in political spite, nurtured
on spleen and matured on threats”; “four
Judges sacrificed the public good to political
expediency”; and the hideousness of the plot
against poor old Ma State had now been
disclosed; —
In the Commonwealth Bank—now appointed the
agency for the collection of taxes on behalf of the
Commonwealth—are deposits of over one million
N.S.W. citizens who were inveigled into depositing
their money there when the N.S.W. Savings Bank
was closed. The real purpose behind the closing
of the Government Savings Bank is thus revealed to
have been a determination to make the savings of
N.S.W. citizens readily accessible in the event of
the Commonwealth deciding to seize them to make
up the bondholders’ interest payments.
The journal which is stuffed with Gov-
ernment advertisements paused in its ravings
to compliment itself on having predicted that
the Americans would poison Phar Lap.
The want of a sense of humor is a great
drawback. If Lang had given way to inno-
cent merriment when De Groot bounded
along on his horse and cut twopenn’orth of
ribbon, and had called to the police to take
no notice instead of being convulsed with
rage, the thing might have fallen rather flat.
There would have been no legal proceedings,
no witnesses testifying to De Groot’s sanity,
and no chance to drag in the fact that Camp-
bell had proposed to have Lang arrested for
corroboree on the high seas or something,
and that this had been suggested as a better
joke. Lang’s friends might have professed
doubts about De Groot’s sanity, and his mili-
tary record, and even about Dublin having
been his birthplace, if they hadn’t been so
darned anxious to prove something.
FOGHORN SMITH (Labor Opposition leader
in Queensland): “Watch me, gentle-
men. One golden promise after an-
other I throw into this little purse.
There you are, gentlemen—one more.
Now, who will give me a vote for the
lot?”
UNEMPLOYED MINER FROM DOWN SOUTH:
“Not on y’r life, Mister. Your late
cobber Theodore caught me that way
two years ago, and I been out of work
ever since!”
The new Free State Parliament hasn’t
met yet, but the assurance of De Valera that
his policy includes separation from the
Empire, so far as it can be done by abolish-
ing the oath of allegiance and by repudiating
the Free State’s debt to (mostly) British
lenders, has already aroused protests.
Maoriland sent its protest to London, thereby
refusing to recognise Ireland as a separate
State. Australia’s went direct to Dublin.
“G. B. Shaw says the Irish people haven’t yet
awakened —they still think they are slaves.”
JOCK GARDEN (to De Valera) : “That’s where
we got the pull over you, Senor. Your
Parliamentary followers think they are
enslaved; ours jolly well ARE!"
If the Free State secedes, its subjects who
have been coming here since the Free State
began, or at least those who come here in
future, will rank as foreigners. Further,
almost everything that Ireland exports to
England competes fiercely with something
that both Maoriland and Australia export,
especially butter, and they will both object
bitterly if the competition continues on the
same basis after secession.
In the middle of the worst outbreak of
infectious disease since the Great ’Flu,
Melbourne was without a Public Health
Commission for seven days. The mistake
occurred through the Easter holidays and the
Bridge celebrations happening at the time
when the Executive Council should have met
to renew the board’s authority. Luckily
neither the community nor the various
bacilli concerned were aware that anarchy
prevailed.
There was a stir in Queensland Labor
circles when W. H. Demaine, president of
the central A.L.P. executive, stigmatised pre-
selection ballots as “a mass of corruption.”
Nothing new in the denunciation, of course,
but it is unusual for a Labor serang to release
embarrassing eats just before a general elec-
tion. Meanwhile the “comrades” are wrang-
ling in the Kilkenny fashion over plebiscite
results. Mick Kirwan, sometime one of McCor-
mack’s Ministers, appealed against the selec-
tion of Funnell for Brisbane, but lost his
case. Gair, the winner of the squabble in
South Brisbane, has been asked to give rea-
sons why he should not be disqualified for
“non-continuity of membership.” Floyd,
formerly M.L.A. for Kelvin Grove, has
resigned from the party on the ground
that he was deprived of the Kelvin
Grove nomination by Tammany tricks. When
Justice Evatt, of the High Court, was
M. for Balmain (N.S.W.), he was of
opinion that pre-selection should be made
illegal. Pity he didn’t remain in politics
long enough to carry his point.
Sir Philip Game opened the Hawkesbury
show on the day when Lang seized and
closed up the Federal income-tax office, and
made these few kind remarks :
In spite of the present alarm, dissension and
discord, I am perfectly convinced that the heart Of
N. S. Wales beats true. Differences of opinion there
are bound to be, but do let us believe that they are
honest differences of opinion, and do let us get
away from all that personal abuse, recrimination
and bitterness which really do not get us anywhere.
But it is difficult to believe that there are
no liars, swindlers and thieves in the State,
and that all the people who look like that
sort have nothing worse the matter with
them than “honest differences of opinion.”
It is hard to believe that even Governor
Game believes that. Anyhow, he believes
that “the heart of N. S. Wales beats true,”
which makes a third party to whom the
matter can be referred. If there is any
doubt as to whether Lang wrecked the Sav-
ings Bank and defaulted on the public debt
from the vilest motives or from honest dif-
ference of opinion it has only been necessary
for some time for his Ex. to let the true-
beating heart of the people decide.
_ Lang’s winning-bets tax must be a source
of great merriment to McShortodds. -A
leading member of the fraternity was charged
the other day with having “failed to record’’
a booked wager. At Randwick on March
I** he , vvas seeu . to make a bet of £2OO to
£5O about Tom Pinch,’’ but instead of doing
what the law enjoins “his clerk pencilled an
entry on a slip of paper.” The horse won,
and the tax (which could not have been im-
posed if no one had been looking and the
P a l )e r had been lost) amounted to
the bookie was fined £lO and his clerk
, ' / wonaer “the department estimates
that £250,000 a year is being lost in ‘eva-
sions’ ” “evasions” of which the tote is
never guilty.
After 17 months of chronic misgovern-
ment, N. S. Wales is apparently resigned to
anything that the Lang mob may do; all the
same, its indifference to the setting up of
a transport monopoly, with a politician and
a discharged railway employee in control,
might be considered strange. Stranger stili
is the silence of W. J. Cleary. When he
was Chief Commissioner of Railways the
reporters could draw Mr. Cleary on any
subject. He was always willing to oblige
with his views on accountancy, surf-bathing,
philosophy and the cultivation of rambler-
roses ; and always ready to deny copiously
that he had arranged to leave his job and
stand for State or Federal politics and suc-
ceed Bavin or Latham. Yet at the most
exciting moment of his career, when his posi-
tion was abolished, and the man he had
sacked was placed in the saddle with greater
powers than any Commissioner of Railways
ever had, Mr. Cleary did not say a word
for publication. The third week' after he
was “removed” so characteristically found
him still giving a life-like imitation of a
mussel.
Papua’s half-yearly report contains the
familiar administrative moan about the cost
of providing retiring allowances. Before the
Commonwealth took over the public service
was sweated outrageously. Work in the
outlying districts was difficult and danger-
ous, while tropical diseases were regarded
as the common lot, to be accepted as a
matter of course. At the instance of a Com-
mission appointed by the Commonwealth,
many improvements were made, one of them
being the institution of a superannuation
fund. This year, due mostly to a fall in
investment values, the Government has had
to make up a deficit of £lB4l. Total invest-
ments, all in Commonwealth bonds, amount
to £209,406, and in ordinary times the in-
terest would meet all demands.
McTiernan, J., seems fated to be con-
cerned in the vicissitudes of Lang. He and
John Thomas became Ministers for the first
time on April 12, 1920, and lost their port-
folios on the same day, April 13, 1922.
Made Attorney-General in the first Lang
Ministry, the Strathfield young man was
involved in the Boss’s abortive attempt to
tax newspapers (he advised against it, but
was overborne), was sent to London to
secure Dominions Office sanction for the
flooding of the Leg. Council, and, returning,
cabled the vote which saved Lang from being
“Labor politician ’e was. Labor put ’im
on ’lgh Court Bench. An’ now ’e goes
an’ gives a rulin’ accordin’ to ’ees
conscience!”
“Scab!”
deposed by Caucus. Nevertheless, Lang dis-
missed him along with fellow-Ministers
Dunu, Lazzarini, Fitzgerald, Flannery and
Coates in May, 1927. He did not stand
again for State politics, and was warmly
praised by Lang’s newspaper for not coming
out against Lang. As a High Court Judge
Mr. McTiernan was with the minority when
the Lang measure abolishing the Leg.
Council was pronounced unconstitutional,
with the majority when the Lyons measure
impounding Lang’s revenues was pronounced
constitutional. Now he is being foully abused,
but it is no unfamiliar experience.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“El Teb” : Bill Adams is not wholly dead.
The 47th anniversary of the N.S.W. Soudan
Contingent’s smell of powder led an enterpris-
ing Sydney journal to interview one of the
survivors of that expedition. He waxed
eloquent on the subject of the frightful tur-
moil on April 4, 1885, “when 800 Austra-
lians figured in the onslaught at Tamai, an
Arab stronghold.” Three Australians were
wounded on that occasion, but the chronicler
says that this gives little impression of “the
Hell that raged while the battle was
in progress.” H'e adds that “we left Tamai
a smoking ruin.” The last bit of informa-
tion seems pretty authentic. Reading the
dry pages of official history I find that
“General Stewart advanced on Tamai and,
finding it completely deserted, withdrew
without opposition aiter burning the town
to' ashes.”
* * * -r-
-“Epee”: The court proceedings in the De
Groot case included some discussion about
the sword used for the ribbon-cutting ex-
ploit. One prominent John Hop went so
far as to state that it could cut a
man’s head off; but the truth is that
it is quite unsuited for such a pur-
pose. The modern cavalry sword is employed
for thrusting only and has no cutting edge
whatever; De Groot admitted that he pur-
posely ground an edge on the “forte” of his
near the hilt. A whack from this type of
sword wielded by a strong arm would be
an unpleasant experience, but not a dan-
gerous one.
THE LATEST DOMESTIC TIFF.
“But why did you hit him with a decanter?”
“I couldn’t lift the sideboard.”
“C oif” : How
hard tradition dies
is seen in the re-
cent attempt by the
churchwardens of
the Anglican parish
of St. Barnabas in
Sydney to keep an
undesired rector off
the premises. Ap-
pointed by the
Arch bishop the
ecclesiastic, it might
have been thought,
would have no
trouble in stepping
into his job in a
country like Aus-
tralia, where one
sect gets no more
license than the
next one. But he
found himself locked
out of church and
rectory. New locks were fitted to over-
come this difficulty, but they were tampered
with by the malcontents or their agents. At
latest advices, the venerable newcomer had
occupied the rectory, and was consolidating
his position. In England, where the Estab-
lished Church is still something to reckon
with, the aid of the Consistory Courts might
be invoked. In this instance the only remedy
open to the complainant seems to be a bunch
of skeleton keys.
* * * *
“Mugge” : An acquaintance of some years’
standing put a neat one across me yester-
day. Over and over again I had paid his
fare to H'omebusli, Chatswood, Cronulla and
other suburbs where jobs were said to be
awaiting him; lent him money to get clothes
out of pawn so that he might make a good
impression in new jobs: advanced small sums
for the purpose of soothing a wife who was
supposed to be threatening him with a main-
tenance order; but he invariably came back
smelling more and more strongly of drink.
So I lost patience, and cut him out. Abso-
lutely, and for ever. Disregarding an
alleged service together in the A.I.F. I
accused him of being an irreclaimable waster,
loafer, drunk and liar, and said he would
never get another farthing from me as long
as he lived. “Where’s your self-respect?” I
declaimed. “Why don’t you work?’’ And so,
with gestures of scorn and repudiation, on to
a convenient tram and away. Yesterday a
familiar voice smote my ear, a familiar odor
my nostrils. “Good day, Mr. Mugge,” and
lie ranged up beside me. A tram was
approaching, my eye wandered, but lie was
too quick. “Well,” he said lightly, with a
hint of triumph in his voice. “You’ll be
pleased to hear I’ve made good this time, Mr.
Mugge. Yes, I’ve started on my own, and
I’m doing well at it.” I was rooted to the
spot. “You don’t mean to tell me you’re
in a job!” “Better, Mr. Mugge, far better ;
I’m working for myself.” My brain was
still whirling when he struck. His hand shot
into his pocket, emerged and was extended.
“Buy a pair of laces, Mr. Mugge?” I'm still
cursing over the loss of that bob.
*#‘ * *
“Chevroford” : Anzae Day is more closely
observed in Yic. than in any other State,
even garages being obliged to close, but there
is a strange anomaly in the metropolis. Show
houses registered under the Theatres Act
may not perform “an entertainment of the
stage,” but the Act doesn’t contemplate the
vocal screen. Various attempts have been
made to include it; they have all. been set
aside, possibly because the talkie is not re-
garded as entertainment. So if an Austrn-
tralian wrote a stage play about Gallipoli he
wouldn’t be allowed to produce it on Anzac
Day, but there would be no official objection
to the showing of an American film depicting
the Doughboys winning the war.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Was this association of ideas?
A Melbourne citizen who had been celebrat-
ing the opening of the Sydney Bridge was
on his homeward way when he came to the
safety zone in Wellington-parade. This
refuge of pedestrians has been the scene of
unnumbered motor smashes, and after each
smash the City Council has put up more
elaborate danger signs. Nowadays it is
guarded at each end by a tall concrete tower
with winking red lights, has another red
light over it and a flood light over all. The
impression of a warm if somewhat aggres-
sive homeliness doubtless attracted the way-
farer. Anyhow, he took off all his clothes
except his under garment, neatly folded them
and lay down to sleep. A horrified lady rang
up the police, and the mistake cost the
sleeper one pound or three days, despite his
plea that he thought he was at home.
:J: : i : *!•
“Kabbala” : It is worth noting that in the
same poem wherein Dr. Erasmus Darwin
visioned the bridge over Sydney Harbor (B.
23/3/’32) he also predicted the first aero-
plane “on wide extended wings.” In this
last respect, however, he is beaten down the
course by the prophet Ezekiel, who flourished
2400 years earlier. In the opening chapter
of that notable Israelite’s book, there is an
extraordinary forecast of a modern aero-
plane squadron. “Out of the midst thereof
came the likeness of four living creatures.
And every one had four faces and every one
had four wings. And their feet were straight
feet and the sole of their feet was like the
sole of a calf’s foot, and they sparkled like
the color of burnished brass. Their wings
were joined to one another; they turned not
where they went; they went everyone
straight forward. As for their rings they
were so high they were dreadful; and their
rings were full of eyes. And when the living
creatures went the wheels went by them;
and when the living creatures were lifted up
from the earth, the wheels were lifted up.”
If that is not a first-class description of an
Allied bombing squadron setting out to a
strafe then the writer has never seen one.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Actors may be denied admis-
sion to Sydney’s leading clubs, but I can
recall at least one English club that drew a
much sharper line against “members of pro-
fessions that the rest of the world thinks a
lot of” (B. 6/4/’32). One of the printed
rules —not mere conventions —of the club I
have in mind ran, “That no solicitor he
admitted.” It was in a fashionable West-
of-England. town, largely inhabited by
choleric colonels on half-pay and dignified
admirals, who made a fetich of “the service”
and a religion of the game of whist. But
that was 40 years ago, and I suppose this
sort of ultra-snobbishness had gone by the
board before the Welsh solicitor Lloyd
George rose to be Prime Minister.
* * *
“C.Q.”: The wooden miniature cenotaph,
modelled on the London monument, will pro-
bably make its last public
appearance on the steps of Par-
liament House, Melbourne, next
Anzac Day. By April 25, 1933.
the Shrine of Remembrance in
the Domain should have been
completed, at least, in essen-
tials, and the saluting point
will probably be transferred
there. Despite the fact that
thousands of Diggers have
joined the Great Majority since
the peace—the total for all Aus-
tralia now exceeds the deaths
on active service—the annual
procession grows bigger in
dimensions year by year, and it
is changing in another charac-
NOT INCLUDED IN THE ETIQUETTE OF GOLF.
“Why not help the professor find his ball, Steve?”
“He’s found it, Jack. He’s looking for his club.”
teristie. Last Anzac Day a small boy shouted
to a marching relative he recognised, “Why
aren’t you wearing your uniform, Uncle.
Uncle smiled grimly and pointed to his waist-
line.
“E.O’S.”: The suggestion by Dr. Brad-
field that Sydney might some day have a
bridge across the Heads is no new idea. In
the archives of the Patent Office is a design
for a bridge from South to' North Head,
estimated to cost (at time of planning)
about £4,000,000. The designer, who took
out his patent more than 25 years ago, made
plans to include a hotel at each end of the
bridge with a restaurant in the centre.
“Mako”: The story of the Sydney Bridge
ashtray marked “Made in Japan” (B.
6/4/’32) recalls a terrible war-time happen-
ing in our village. There had been a com-
petition carrying a prize for the collector
whose list showed the largest amount con-
tributed to the local patriotic fund; the
prize, donated by a society dame, was a
china fruit-dish. After several fiery anti-
German speeches, the clergyman arose to
make the presentation. He opened with an
oration on patriotism, turning at the right
moment to receive the dish and present it to
the proud damsel, a farmer’s daughter,
awaiting it. She bore it in triumph down
the hall, where Dad and Mum sat beaming
upon the proceedings, and passed it round
for inspection. Suddenly the gathering was
startled by a loud crash. The prize had
fallen to the floor in a hundred pieces ; Dad,
who had two sons in France, had glimpsed
on the back the legend “Made in Saxony.”
The base rumor ran round afterwards that
the village store had thrown out its Ger-
man goods at a terrific reduction, to the un-
doing of the economical donor.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“K. Bill”: “Bogaduck” (B. 30/3/’32)
doubts whether one German settler in a
thousand goes back to the Fatherland. He
might have added that few Bananaland Ger-
mans who return to the land of their birth
remain there. I know of a number of in-
stances in which S.Q. cookies sold all their
belongings, after making good, and recrossed
the German Ocean with the intention of
staying; in every case Fritz and his frau
were back in Queensland inside 12 months,
resolved never again to'take their feet from
the land of their adoption. A young Ger-
man who arrived here with nothing, and
returned to his homeland a few years later
a comparatively wealthy man, remained
away 10 years; but it took him that long
to persuade the wife, whom he married in
Germany, to come out to sunny Queensland.
And at 79 he is still here.
* * *
“P.A.L.”: The discovery in Auckland of
a piano alleged to have once been the pro-
perty of R. L. Stevenson (B. 13/3/’32) will
probably arouse a controversy, for collectors
of Stevensonian relics have some reason to be
sceptical. Some years ago I wrote an
article in all good faith recording how a
Wellington (M.L.) resident, present at the
sale of Stevenson’s belongings, had had
knocked down to him the machine on which
“Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde” was written;
my informant assured me that he had bought
the typewriter for 40 dollars and had sold it
to a friend for 100 dollars, and that finally it
was sold to Glasgow University for £oOO
The article went the rounds, and caused
“John O’London’s Weekly” to hazard a
doubt as to whether R.L.S. ever had such a
machine. Later the Glasgow University
authorities denied having purchased anything
of the sort. Further investigation disclosed
that Stevenson had had a typewriter, which
was in the possession of Mr. H. T. Moors,
author of “With Stevenson in Samoa” ; this
machine was eventually given to an Ameri-
can Museum. In due course we may learn
that ILLS, had several pianos.
* * * *
“Jute”: I know no city in the world —not
even in Asiatic countries, of which I have a
fairly wide experience—where business people
are so short-sighted as they are in and around
Sydney. Three examples out of a dozen
that could be cited :
Motoring with some friends on a Sunday we
stopped at a roadside fruit-stall which they often
patronise. They bought apples which the vendor
said were locally grown, 8 for Is. Next day we
saw similar apples offered in Sydney as Tasmanian
at 14 for Is.
A Darlinghurst fishmonger sold me a small lobster
for 25., claiming, when I objected, that it had cost
him Is. 9d. in the markets. A day or so afterwards
I saw lobsters of the same size and quality in a
Market-street (city) shop marked “Is. to Is. 3d.’’
The proprietor informed me that no one had paid
as much as Is. 9d. for a lobster at a market in
the history of fishmongering.
A Sydney hotel advertised a “businessman’s lunch,”
and I got into the habit of having it. I went along
during Show Week, and was informed by a' waitress
that the business lunch was “off,” they having
more lunchers than they wanted already!
All these traders have not only lost steady
customers for ever; they have given rise to
a particularly damaging form of criticism of
their businesses. It is Langism applied to
petty trading—the very methods that the
English became great commercially by for-
swearing.
* :J: if. *
“Umpteenth Guru”: Touching these un-
rhymeable words, “D.” refers to a quatrain
of Leigh Hunt’s which tells of a rajah “con-
ning every day his Grunth,” and adds that
the book in question was one on metaphysics
by a German named Grunth (B. 6/4/’32).
I doubt it. What the rajah was probably
reading was the “Adi Grunth,” the sacred
book of the Sikh religion, the latter being a
heroic attempt, attended with considerable
success, to convert the super-pantheism of
the Hindu to a monotheism.
* * * *
“F.D.S.”: There lias been some talk of
unusual suicides since an American mil-
lionaire-philanthropist ended his own life the
other day, but for sheer determination in
the matter of his exit from mundane affairs
a distinguished English jurist put up a
record. He was one Hughes-Onslow, Master
of the Supreme Court; a lot of assorted
diseases had made him so tired of life that
he propelled himself from his flat, three
storeys up, upon a cold London pavement.
Some hours later he awakened to find that,
although severely maimed, he wasn't dead,
and he climbed laboriously upstairs again
with the apparent intention of having
another try. But he passed a bathroom as
he crawled up and there was a razor on the
table ; this gave him a fresh idea and he cut
and drowned himself to death. A jury found
that he was of unsound mind.
THE MORNING COMES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The morning comes with smiles a-beam,
And with a rosy finger
My curtain parts to let light gleam
Where on my couch I linger.
For if I rise to venture forth,
With what can life provide me
That is to me of greater worth
Than I have here beside me?
For my wife is a winsome lass.
Her eyes are closed and billowed.
Her hair lies in a tumbled mass
Upon my shoulder pillowed.
Her white breast by the sunlight caught
With happy sighs is swelling,
And in that breast (ah, golden thought!)
Has love for me its dwelling.
The world from me may gifts withhold,
But how can Fate deride me
When I have, better far than gold,
A grace like this beside me?
Awhile I shall not stir, lest I
Disturb her in her dreaming.
With such a picture to espy
No wonder dawn is beaming!
N.S.W.
THE FREQUENT LOVER.


“Nikko”; At intervals some ardent dress-
reformer comes along with the suggestion
that the girls should go to business in uni-
forms. Indoors many wear ’em—witness the
smart damsels of the iCommonwealtli Bank
staff and the misses in large shops and
factories —but the street uniform has never
been popular. So when the haughty missus
o'f a Maoriland Governor indicated that its
general adoption would gratify her, the idea
was not taken up Avitli any particular enthu-
siasm. A pressman sought out the lady to
learn her vieAvs in detail. Her Ex. in all
seriousness said she would like to sec Maori-
land flappers and ex-flappers running for the
8.45 goAvned in grey or brown print, “with
the head covered by a neatly-folded shawl”!
It’s years ago, and the dame has good deeds
to her credit; but she has never quite lived
down the neatly-folded shawl.
ijs * $ *
“Apelles”: The Sydney Artists’ Ball
seems to have flopped again. I learn from
the papers that one reveller “left the dance-
floor arm-in-arm with two detectives”
(charge, “passing over 50 valueless cheques
on city firms”) ; that another Avas lumbered
for being drunk and disorderly; that some
of the ladies were “practically naked,” and
that hardly any genuine artists attended.
The absence of artists has been the most
calamitous feature of artists’ balls in Syd-
ney for over a decade. In Melbourne the
older and more distinguished a painter is
the greater the obligation in his eyes, and
those of his friends, to do his damnedest to
make a success of the annual frivol. The
same in London, Paris and elsewhere. It
used to be so in Sydney till the celebrated
orgie that caused the righteous all over Aus-
tralia to make Poises like the late Mr.
Pecksniff whenever the word “artist” Avas
mentioned. I doubt if anything can be done
about it; a dog has a better chance of sur-
viving a bad name than an annual ball. The
ALWAYS SOMETHING.
“I wonder if there’s anything between Jim and Nellie?”
“Why, yes; didn’t you know?. A husband
only feasible scheme I have heard is that
some veterans of unimpeachable probity like
Longstaff and Norman Carter should per-
suade Mrs. Double-Bay and the Misses
Bellevue-Hill (read for those names those of
some of the richest and the most overwhelm-
ing respectable females in the social world)
to promise to turn up at the next ball with
friends. If they agreed, and if some in-
ebriate, who was being looked for by the
police, and was accompanied by a lady friend
in a loincloth, didn’t hit one of them over
the head with a bottle in the course of the
evening, then there might be some chance
of making a do of the 1933 Artists’ Ball.
“D.”: A recent description of Soviet
Russia (by Edith Miller, a sympathiser m the
“Clarion”) proves once more that Napoleon
was right when he said that no nation could
get along without some kind of religion. She
found Moscow “plastered with anti-religious
exhibits denouncing idol-worship and tie
extortions of the priesthood. On the
other hand “hoardings screamed at us to
subscribe a rouble towards the dirigible so
as to knock another nail m the head of John
Bull” and “in the Red Square thousands
nightly file through to worship the body ot
Lenin'in its red marble sarcophagus. The
people don’t seem to have much money o
spare for amusements (“There was little
■ laughter in Leningrad—leaking sewers., cav-
ernous holes in the streets, flyblown dust in
shops, eternal drab rags of women ), yet
they are supporting the biggest, army and
air force in the world. In short, they are
as religious as ever. They have exchanged
the extortions of the priesthood tor the
extortions of bureaucrats; their money is
being used to build armies and air navies
instead of cathedrals; they listen to sermons
advocating hatred instead of brotherly love.
And they have turned from the Avorslnp ot
a Nazarene aaJio died on a Cross to the
worship of a cynical little politician who
died of syphilis. A poor exchange, no doubt,
but the point is they have still “got reli-
gion.”
“Centurion”: The latest cabled accounts
of a new rifle projectile invented in Ger-
many do not suggest anything very neAv.
It has tAvo circular metal
“wings” running round
it. The bullet is smaller
than the barrel calibre
and the wings engage the
rifling. This sounds mucn
the same as the copper
bands used on artillery
projectiles for the same
purpose; something de-
vised on the same lines
was in use in the days of
the muzzle-loading rifles.
The Minie, precursor of
the Enfield, had a bullet
which could be dropped
down the barrel, instead
of having to be hammered
doAvn through the grooves
as with the very early
rifles. In the hollow was
fitted a small wooden or
metal plug. This Avas
driven further into the
hollow by the explosion of the powder,
expanding the bullet to take, the grooving.
The same idea was followed in the case of
the Enfield, and even the breech-loading
Snider.
“Kyn”: Jewry was perturbed when the
bakery at North Melbourne which makes the
motzo bread for the Passover festival caught
fire and £7so’ worth of the unleavened product
was destroyed or rendered uneatable. There
was a sigh of relief when it became known
that oven and plant were undamaged, and
that plenty of the special flour was still
available; also that the orders for W.A.,
S.A. and M.L. had been dispatched. The
factory meets almost the whole of the Aus-
tralasian demand.
“X.S.”: A drama reminiscent of a Holly-
wood movie Avas enacted in Elizabeth-street,
Melbourne, the other morning. A car con-
taining three
men drew up to
the kerb a few
yards from the
Collins-street in-
tersection. One
of the passen-
gers stepped out
and, swinging a
brick on the end
of a cord round
his head while
scores of startled
pedestrians look-
ed on, sent it
hurtling through
the plate-glass
window of a
jeweller’s shop.
Then he thrust
his arm into the
rent, drew out
a tray of dia-
mond rings and
made back for
tlie car. All
elderly by-
stander threw
the thief on to
his beam ends,
but he scram-
bled to his feet
with the rem-
nants of his loot
and dashed into
the car. As it
moved off a
plucky small
boy jumped on
to the foot-
board, but was
i n c o ntinently
rolled off into
the gutter. A
few seconds
later the radio
manager of the
shop tore into
the street, took
in the situation
at a glance,
hailed another
car and went in
pursuit. Just as he got to the intersection
however, the red light showed, and he had
the mortification of watching liis quarry dis-
appear in the direction of Flinders-street.
The whole coup must have been carefully
timed in relation to the variations of the
lights.
“S.T.S.”: Professor Lodewyckx, of Mel-
bourne, tells South Aus. that its old German
place-names ought to be restored. After
1848, mainly at the cost of the Angas
family, a host of Danes and South Germans
came to Adelaide mainly to escape Prussian
domination. They gave the farming com-
munity a solid base that has always been
notable. Yet in the war-time bitterness,
although Schmidts and Mullers are thick
on every village’s memorial of the dead,
about 70 place-names were officially wiped
out; three experts, of whom journalist Rod-
ney Cockburn only survives, had the job of
inventing “Tweedvale” for Lobethal, “Yimy
Ridge” for Germantown Hill, and so on.
Denny, Whitford and other politicians agree
with the professor that the action of 1910
was absurd; but point out that to change
back now would cost probably £30,000.
* * * *
“Lex”: At the conference of the Asso-
ciated Chambers of Commerce a Syd-
neyite called for “steps in Australia,
as', in Britain, to combat bribery and
secret commissions.” What optimism ! Lon-
don is one of the homes of business bribery,
from tip-giving upwards. Mussolini him-
self hasn’t been able to completely stop
tip-taking, which is the fount and origin of
all bribe-taking. The ramifications of com-
mercial and political back-scratching are
usually so involved that it is impos-
sible to keep track of them. Often
a situation arises which looks suspi-
cious, yet may be perfectly innocent. Take
N.S.W.’s Manly-Palm Beach district. Its
only industries are surfing and golf, and it
ends in a barren peninsula. Yet in recent
years it has been benefited by the Harbor
and Spit bridges, some of the best stretches
“Can you swim?”
“Of course. I do the crawl:’
of concrete speedway in the State, and a
network of fine roads, most of which stretch
at present over untenanted, hills. As it ait
this wasn’t enough, there is a proposal to
build a high-speed railway to Newport, at a
cost of £5,000,000. You find phenomena of the
kind all over the place. Sometimes there is
a politician in the background, sometimes
not. Anyhow, Parliament cant do any-
thing to stop the business —that is, in the
cases where it should be stopped. It is the
fruit of, and inseparable from, Parliamen-
tary government.
v *!*
“Pawang”: Dr. Philpotts, the Melbourne
dentist who has made himself a specialist on
birth control, has been delivering lectures
on the subject at the Bijou. He addresses
the sexes separately at different sessions and,
being a male, I don’t know how he enter-
tains the women, but when I heard him uc
prevented his discourse from. becoming in-
tolerably scientific by dropping in occa-
sional stories and realistic details which
contrast quaintly with’ the passages in
which lie puts a sob into his voice and
moralises after the Marie Stopes model, it
is significant that his audiences are almost
exclusively drawn from the class ot low-
wage-earners and high-birthraters which
all Governments have hitherto done their
best to keep in ignorance of contraception.
1 leading medico to whom I mentioned Phil-
potts regretted that, the medical profession
did not do the job itself. I asked him why
doctors didn’t. He said that it would affect
their prestige. The professions passion tor
respectability is probably at the bottom of it.
“Molls” • Sydney may have had to wait
a long time for its Harbor Bridge, but I
wonder how long people in Bngland have
been discussing the Channel Tunnel with-
out it getting any nearer. Sixty years ago it
looked like a certainty of the near-tuture:
the first Channel Tunnel company was re-
gistered in 1872, and that was at least t U
years after this means of linking Dover and
Calais had caught the popular imagina-
tion. There was actually some preliminary
excavating and boring near Dover m
the early ’eighties, but high military officers
frowned on the project, and the work was
stopped by the Government. What a god-
send it would have been during the Great
War!—but in those days few visioned
Britain and France as Allies against a Ger-
many aspiring to world domination. Since
then the pros and cons of trans-Channel
communication, either by tunnel or viaduct
or tubular railway running on the sea-bed,
have been discussed repeatedly by Parlia-
ment but the scheme has always round
more antagonists than supporters. The last
occasion was only a few years ago.
“Trastevere” t Republican Spain lias ac-
quired its first divorce law, and it goes
further than that of any other country
except Soviet Russia. Marriage is to be
based on equal rights for both sexes, and
may be dissolved by mutual consent or at
the request of either partner if just cause
be shown. No distinction is drawn between
legitimate and illegitimate children, and
fathers must maintain their offspring,
whether born within the marriage pale or
outside it. A development which the Rus-
sians considered necessary was the teaching
of birth control and the legalising of abortion.
In Russia an unmarried mother must sup-
port her children if she is in a job and the
putative father is without one; otherwise
it becomes a State responsibility. Under
these conditions a people who bred as
ignorantly and proiifically as the Slav did
under tlfe C-zarist regime would soon create
an economic problem of the first order. The
Spanish cable is silent on this aspect of
the question.
“Feng-Shui” : Sun Yat-Sen, the anniversary
of whose death was celebrated the other day,
is now firmly established as the patron saint
of modern China. His portrait has taken
the place of the family shrine, foreign em-
ployees of the Republic have sometimes been
obliged to kowtow to it and his Three Prin-
ciples (Nationalism, Democracy and the
Livelihood of the People) are as fixed and
immutable as the Koran and the Buddhist
Jatakas. Yet he himself .was a fervent
seeker Miter truth, and-, changed his recipe
for social justice many times before death
took the brush out of his hand. In fact,
his writings very much resemble the opinions
of the inquiring secretary of an Australian
trade-union which reflect his latest visit
to a public . library. Sun was at different
times a socialist, an anarchist and a com-
munist. As a practical politician he was
indistinguishable from a mandarin of the
old regime. When the revolution occurred
he solemnly went in procession to the Ming
tombs at Nanking to acquaint former em-
perors that their kingdom bad now become
a republic. What the emperors’ comments
were arc not recorded. As Minister for Rail-
ways at Shanghai he was accused of divert-
ing funds into the rebel exchequer.' At
Canton he was a military dictator, like any
other tucliun, and lie bargained with foreign
countries, especially Russia, to further his
own ambitions. In the immemorial way of
Asia he found jobs for all his family, and it
is they who ruled the Republic until the
Japanese struck recently. That incident
did more to realise the first article of Sun’s
Three Principles than any of the author’s
own preachings; the other two are likely to
be realised almost any time now —geological
time, not Greenwich.
“Cinna”: Barham might have found
rhymes to words which tax lesser bards (B.
6/4/’32), but some of Browning’s efforts,
notably the oft-quoted “ranunculus —Tommy-
make-room-for-your-uncle-us,” seem rather
unworthy of a great poet. Tennyson is
charged with having rhymed “truly” and
“July” somewhere, but I could never find
the passage. Professor Saintsbury is
lenient to Browning’s eccentricities; he says
that the poet was merely “audacious” in his
rhymes, whereas his wife, the poetess, was
frequently vulgar and defiant of the rules
of pronunciation in hers. Saintsbury quotes
several of Mrs. Browning’s offences against
the canons, and concludes that anybody who
could rhyme “pyramidal” and “idyll”—when
nothing could ,be shorter than the “i” in the
first word, and nothing longer than the “i”
in the second —must either be a slovenly
A BRAND PLUCKED FROM THE
BURNING.
“I’m glad I’ve persuaded your husband to
cornel to church Sunday mornings:’
“Yes, I told him it was either that or he
could cook the dinner.”
writer or a sufferer from a defective ear.
Still, I don’t remember ever having heard
W. S. Gilbert criticised for his “Hey-diddle-
diddle will rank as an idyll” delightfulness.
But of course Gilbert, like “Ingoldsby,” was
essentially a humorist, and Mrs. Browning
was the reverse. It makes all the difference.
* * »I» *
“Moucher”: The British railways, finding
their revenues depleted by the “hiking” craze,
have sensibly gone half-way to meet it. The
Great Western and other companies are run-
ning “mystery trains,” at a flat ticket rate
of 45., from some of the chief termini at
holiday seasons. “Hikers” lray_ their tickets
without knowing their destination. On the
train this is disclosed to them, and maps
and directions are handed out; later on _ the
travellers are decanted in rural surroundings
and left to their own devices. The scheme
would seem to have its disadvantages. Foi
instance, visualise a “hiking” party of tin
New Guard in N.S.W. finding themselves
unexpectedly dumped at the gate ox Mr
Lang’s Hawkesbury farm.
“WITHOUT.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The would-be actor did his stuff:
The manager just raised his hand;
Ilis speech and tone were curt and gruff:
"Voice isn’t nearly loud enough—
You’d not be heard beyond the band.”
The actor bridled. “Have some sense!
You’ve heard of South-street trials? Well,
They took place in a hall immense
And I ranked first for Eloquence.
Am I expected here to yell?”
“Too right!” the fur-coat king replied.
“Just stand off there and raise a shout
As if defying Time and Tide.
The part you’ll play when fairly tried
Will be the classic Noise without.”
S.A.
BILL O’C.


Le Chapeau
Roll it up, pack it between a
novel and your pyjamas—
then take it out, unfold it
and you have a perfect HAT,
made of pure Fur Felt, abso-
lutely without a crease. Le
Chapeau is an uncrushable
Australian Hat, made from a
French model, extremely light,
smart, and available in all
sizes in colors of Drab, Steel
and Fawn. Send your If*
size to-day. Price, fci // O
Pike Brothers Ltd.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
IE!
I l:l< Til. in:lr '> t
J
R
1 h‘!f
Tszat&w
rti“ v
IF'
MAY’S
Fertilizer
Spreader
We can deliver from
stock.
Now is the time for
Top-dressing, and
here is the ideal
machine for the job.
Send for leaflets, or
call and inspect.
AGENTS:
Guthridge Ltd.
10-12 Parramatta
Road, Camperdown,
New South Wales.
’Phone: L 2715.
Pref. Shareholders
and Their Rights.
This is among the
many subjects of vital
interest to investors
discussed in the April
issue of
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY"
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Speacock faced his 50th session when
Vic. Assembly resumed; he completed 4o
years’ continuous service as a member on
March 28. He had 10 predecessors in the
chair whom he addressed from the floor as
Minister, Opposition-leader, or private mem-
ber ; only one survives—John Bowser, who
still’ runs the “Chronicle” in his home town,
Wangaratta.
In Frank Beaumont Moulden, passed out
at 55, Adelaide has lost one of its best
known citizens, prominent alike in profes-
sional, municipal and commercial life. Ihe
son of an old-time M.L.C., who was Attor-
ney-General in the Cockburn Ministry as
long ago as 1889, he made the law his pro-
fession, qualifying as a solicitor. He had
been a member of the Adelaide City Counci.
since 1904 and was Mayor in I.JIJ-21.
Knighthood came his way a year later. He
was a director of several well-known coni-
panies, both at Adelaide and .Broken Hill,
and a leading figure in many civic movements
and patriotic activities. He married in
1918 the widow of the late John Winthrop
Hackett, the Perth newspaper proprietor, to
whose generosity the University of W.A.
owes so much.
Western (“Wessie”) Walsh, dead in
Queensland at 71, was a member of one of
Queensland’s early-day families. His father,
W. H. Walsh, was an M.L.A. oyer 60 years
ago; he was secretary for Public Works in
1870 and Speaker from ’74 to ’76. The
son entered the Queensland railways as a
survey engineer and was associated with
the building of many important lines. In
the ’nineties he accepted an appointment
from the Government of the Federated Malay
States and did the surveys for several public
works, also acquiring interests in rubber and
tin ventures. Retiring some 20 years, ago
he returned to Queensland, where he lived,
with occasional journeys to Malaya, until
the end.
These days the big city tabernacles must
have their pulpit stars, too, or else go out
of business —the old “stock” parson, who
wasn’t much good as a preacher but was a
darned fine friend, isn’t in demand where
two-thirds of the congregation are birds of
passage, who only want to see and hear
what’s talked about. A few, like Pitt-streer,
Congregational, with fairly fat rent rolls,
pick out good pulpiteers and stick to them
for years; others, like Collins-street Inde-
pendent., bring stars from overseas on mid-
dling-long engagements. Scots, in Mel-
Dr. LAUCHLAN MACLEAN WATT.
bourne, best placed of all, through the Turn-
bull Trust, can offer terms for a short
season that will make any pulpit star think
twice; and its Sydney twin in Margaret-
street isn’t much worse off. Both have just got
in new men, pne from Glasgow, the other from
Belfast. The Glasgow man, Dr. Lauchlan
Mac Lean Watt, comes from the Glasgie
Cathedral, and is booked for six months in
Melbourne. He is a wit, a novelist, poet
and playwright, and his last book was a
detective yarn.
Probably the oldest woman on the West-
ralian goldfields is Madame Eugenie
Vauthier, who kept her 99th birthday the
other day at Bulong, a decayed mining
settlement 20 miles east of Kalgoorlie. Born
in France, Madame was a nurse in the
Franco-Prussian War of 1870; one of her
patients was the late General Pau, who lost
an arm in the war. After that Madame
became a ship’s stewardess and visited most
parts of the world ; 86 years ago she opened
a restaurant at Bulong, then a thriving
mining township, and saw it gradually go
down until there were only a few people left
there. When General Pa.u visited Ivalgoorlie
in 1918, Madame left Bulong to renew her
acquaintance with him, but she hasn't been
out of it since.
B. S. B. Stevens succeeds T. R. Bavin as
Opposition-leader in the N.S.W. State
Parliament after only four and a half
years in Parliament, a remarkable achieve-
ment for a man whose qualities are
solid and the reverse of showy. The new
leader was born at
liedfern (Sydney)
43 years ago. Muni-
cipal accountancy
occupied his early
energies; he had a
job with the Syd-
ne y Corporation
and another with
the Manly Council
before he entered
the Public Service
at the age of 23.
Within a dozen
years liis aptitude
for finance had
carried him to the
top at the State
Treasury, and cer-
tain extensive re-
organisations which
h e carried out
marked him out as
a victim for the
Lang Government
when it arrived in
office in 1925.
Stevens resigned
and started in pri-
vate practice, but
two years later
Croydon sent him
to the Assembly—
to become a Minis-
New N.S.W. Opposi-
tion Leader STEVENS.
ter almost immediately and a thorn in Lang s
side ever since. He has a knack of marshal-
ling his figures in the briefest compass, he
seldom loses his temper and he is never
deflected from his purpose.
Ernest C. Riddle, Governor of the Com-
monwealth Bank of Australia, who thought it
worth while reminding his countrymen the
other day that “the institution is not sub-
ject to political control and is the rock
upon which all Australian finance stands
to-day,” comes of pastoral stock; his father
owned Gundemaine station, near Narrabn
(NSW.), and the future banker was born
there 59 years ago. H'e began his career
with the Sank of A’sia at Narrabn at 16;
in 1915 he was appointed manager of the
Perth branch of the Commonwealth Bank;
five years later he became deputy-governor in
Sydney and for the last five he has been
governor.
While chairman of Bawra, knight John
Higgins gave half of his salary of £10,066
a V ear to educational and charitable insti-
tutions. Continuing the good work he has
just distributed £4250 of the £5652 commis-
sion he received as trustee for the Woolsell-
ing Brokers’ Commission Trust among 16
concerns —Melb. Uni. gets £2OOO of it.
Bonuses to officers connected with the trust
and an allowance for the incidence of taxa-
tion absorbs the rest of the commission.
An old Rhodes scholar of S.A., Dr.
Howard Florey, gets the Professorship ot
Pathology at Sheffield University. His wife
is a fully-qualified Adelaide doctor also.
N. J. McLeod, dead in Brisbane at 70,
was born in New Orleans and came to
North Queensland with his family during
the Civil War. H‘e began his workaday life
in the Customs, and became successively
Government audit inspector, Registrar-Gen-
eral and Government Statistician, retiring
from the last-named post in 1921. A prom-
inent upholder of the kirk, he was also for
some years treasurer to the Y.M.C.A.
Students for the priesthood from Corpus
Christi College. Werribee, and St. Colum-
ban’s seminary, Essendon, filled several
seats in the nave of St. Patrick’s cathedral.
Melbourne, the day Dr. Hayes was consecrated
Bishop of Rockhampton. Dr. Hayes is Aus-
tralian-born and bred; he was a senior boy
at Xavier College, Kew, in 1911. His youth-
ful appearance as he passed up and down
the aisle bestowing his blessing attracted
more attention to the students, one or two
of whom may themselves be croziered and
mitred some* day. It was in obedience
to a broad hint from Rome that it was time
Australia provided its own clergy that Wei-
ribee College was set up to supplement the
seminary at Manly.
The Beaverbrook press is reported to be
preparing another grand reception for Sena-
tor Elliott. When Theodore Fink’s son-in-
law landed in Rome three years ago Beaver-
brook emissaries met him, and within a
few days millions of Englishmen were con-
fronted at their breakfast tables with his
portrait, and glowing accounts of his states-
manship. His sojourn in England was a
sort of royal progress, and on his departure
he was presented with a campaign truck,
beautiful in blue and gold, decorated w } ‘
Empire Crusade slogans and replete with
apparatus for broadcasting the aims ot ins
journalistic patron. The ornate vehicle was
taken out of the Elliott garage at T 001 <
and used in the Federal election campaign,
though the Empire Crusade did not make
much impression on Victorian electors, in
his spare time Elliott is a connoisseur ot
art, and his house is full of Johns, Orpens
and Brangwyns.
Dr A J. W. Pliilpotts succeeds Dr. Clar-
ence Godfrey as Vic. Government medical
officer, a job carrying £lOOO p.a., less per-
centage deductions. Like Godfrey, Pliilpotts
has had a long career in the State service.
His previous post was superintendent ot
Royal Park mental hospital and receiving
home.
“Spectioneer”: Wonderful how well some
men stand the stress of public and profes-
sional life. At the End Mayors Ball in
Sydney I met seven of the 14 men who con-
stituted the first Solidarity Labor party,
elected just 38 years ago. All of them were
still active and fit. Two, V atson and
Hughes, have been Prime Ministers; Hol-
man rose to be Premier of N.S.W,, and
Griffith and Cann were Ministers in two suc-
cessive Governments.
Ernest Lucy, just retired from the N.S.W.
railways, held the position of Chief Mechani-
cal Engineer for 22 years. He began •
railway service with the Great Western i
England 53 years ago, chipping rust on
boilers and filing castings; his progress was
rapid, and he was placed in charge of the
company’s Wolverhampton worksi when stall
a young man. In 1905, when the N.S.W.
railways wanted an assistant C.M.E. with a
thorough knowledge of engines, Lucy caune
this way, and he became full C.M.E. five
years later.
Glowrey, M.L.A. for Ouyen (Vic.), who
has leased a Riverina station, intends to
hold on to his seat if the electors will let him.
He is a party all on his own now the Rural
Prog. He had three pals m the Assembly
(Dunstan, Cleary and Allnutt), but they
joined the United Cockies.
J. W. Hickey, just dead in Perth, was a
strenuous trades-union organiser who found
the job a stepping-stone to Parliament and
a seat in Cabinet, though he was never a
full-blown Minister. Hickeys activities
began on the Murchison goldfields; in ldlo
he won a seat for the Central Province,
rather unexpectedly defeating William 1 at-
rick, a successful Cue storekeeper of the
early days, and held it for two six-year
terms. He was an honorary Minister in the
second Collier Cabinet, and an offsider to
Johnny Drew, who has led every Labor
Government in the Upper House, mostly as
Chief Secretary, since the very first one
in 1904.
Joseph Conrad could have woven a strik-
ing yarn round the end of the old paddle-
wheeler Hygeia, now hard and fast on the
E. J. McMAHON ,
N.S.W. Commissioner
of Taxation, at present
between the Devil and
the Deep Sea.
( P.S.: Lang isn’t the
Deep Sea.)
foreshore of the
charming seaside
resort of Rosebud
(Melbourne). After
40 years of carry-
in g excursionists
about the Bay she
was pensioned off,
and last July ship-
breaker H. W.
Morris bought her,
stripped her and
chartered a tug to
tow her outside the
Heads and sink
her. One of the
worst storms _in
Melbourne’s hi s-
tory hit the proces-
sion, and the shell
broke loose, and
for 30 hours was
lost amongst the
mountainous seas
with two seamen
clinging to her.
When next seen
she was almost
high and dry at her
present berth. Her
owner was under a
bond of £lOOO to
see her to her
watery grave, and
for months he tried
desperately to shift
her. In December
the Port authori-
ties obtained an
order from the
District Court
compelling the un-
lucky owner to
complete his con-
tract, but it was
suspended when he had a nervous break-
down due to his realisation of the im-
possibility of the job. Now he is dead, and
fresh complications are foreshadowed. An
island has formed around the craft, and
the task of getting her off devolves upon the
Port.
Sam McKay, of the big harvester works
at Sunshine, is packing up for a five months
trip abroad; he has obtained leave ot
absence from Melb. Uni and other concerns
with which he is associated. He is going
to look in at Ottawa while the representa-
tives of Britain and the Dominions are there
in July.
G. F. H'eazlewood. who has retired
from the management of the western (Temple
Court) branch in Melbourne of the Commer-
cial Banking Co. of Sydney, was in charge
of the Walhalla branch of the Bank of Vic-
toria when the Long Tunnel goldmine was
a rich yielder and was on the directorate
of the mining co. It was a far cry from
the Gippsland town to Collins-strcet west,
but after the Victoria’s amalgamation with
the Commercial of Sydney, Ileazlewood
made the new branch one of the bank s
biggest in Victoria.
Tom Pascoe, one of the veterans of the
S.A. Leg. Council, has spent practically half
a lifetime among the greybeards. He has
been a member since 1900—the Midland
District counts him as one of its represen-
tatives. His father was one of the many
Cornishmen who settled in S.A., and the son
The Honorable TOM PASCOE.
was born at White Hut, a little farming
settlement outside Clare. In his 73 years he
has held various positions in more public
bodies than he can now remember. Outside
North-terrace he is interested in farming,
and used his knowledge as Minister of Agri-
culture under Peake and Harwell.
Lord Harris, dead in England at 81, held
some high offices, Parliamentary and admin-
istrative, in middle life —he was successively
Under-Secretary for India, Under-Secretary
for War and Governor of Bombay—but he
will be best remembered as a great cricketer
of 50 years ago and an even greater cricket-
ing institution, the G.O.M. of the game, right
up to the last. He brought a team to Aus-
tralia in 1878-79, and captained England in
the first Test match against Australia in
1880. Three years younger than W. G. Grace,
lie outlived the champion by 16 years. And
what a link between the old days of cricket
and our own has vanished with him! At
the dinner held to celebrate the centenary
of the Oxford-Cambridge match, he men-
tioned that from the very first game in
1827 to the one that had finished that day he
had known one or more of the players.
T. W. Watson, one of the new N.S.W.
Western Lands Board Commissioners, is an
old Sydney High School boy, who entered the
N.S.W. public service as a cadet draftsman
in th'e Lands Department and qualified as a
licensed surveyor. After some years of Gov-
ernment work he resigned to start for himself
at Forbes. Specialising in land settlement
and land problems he appeared for numerous
settlers’ cases before land boards at Con-
dobolin, Nyngan and elsewhere; and also on
appeals before the Land and Valuation
Court. He stood as a Lang-plan candi-
date for Calare in the Federal elections.
Peter Campbell succeeds A. E. W, Tobin
as Surveyor-General of Vic. As ho is 62 he
will only have three years’ tenure of the job.
Francis Moore, who passed out at Mait-
land (N.S.W. ) recently at the hge of
96, had met more of Australia’s bushrangers
than most men. He used to tell how he was
once having a meal with the Kelly family
in Victoria when word was brought that
the troopers were after Ned and~Dau. They
hurriedly left. Later he returned to N.S.W.,
to be relieved of a particularly fine horse by
Thunderbolt. He was dining at the Bush-
man’s Arms Hotel at Murrurundi when the
place was stuck up by Wilson and Clarke ;
the men in the pub showed fight and one of
the bandits was killed. Finally, at Rocky
Creek gold diggings, Moore saw something
of Ben Hall, for whom he always expressed
some sympathy.


đ
BELTING for Long Service
HTHE many long-service records established
by Pioneer Leather Belting justify its
specification for the hardest and most diffi-
cult drives. There is no guesswork when
you buy Pioneer Belting, because there is a
special grade to suit each type of drive and
every working condition. For many years
of dependable service specify
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
Made and guaranteed since 1858 by
J. C. LUDOWICI &. SON
LIMITED
117 York Street, Sydney, and 20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
AGENTS :
QUEENSLAND: HOEY FRY, LTD., 170 EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: J. McKELL & SONS, 129 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: MR. HORACE SUMMERS, 9-11 HOWARD STREET PERTH
TASMANIA: CHAS. DAVIS, LTD., 60 ELIZABETH STREET, HOBART ’ ™ KXH '
IvEW ZEALAND: G. W. ARNOLD, LTD., A.M.P. CHAMBERS, WELLINGTON.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
£241,341
£3,500,000
£900,000
£500,000
Subscribed Share Capital
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds
Total Reserves approximately
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately . .
Area Planted Approx. 130,000 Acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA; 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace,'Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
om ay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong and San Francisco.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Life Department. Added
Ex- Written to
Dec., Income. Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1905.. 255,130 64,962 33,454 20,572 136 051
1915.. 1,174,039 666,113 98,695 6,986 402,245
1920. . 1,383,575 789,726 131,286 10,245 452,318
1923. . 1,537,907 962,022 136,227 646 439,012
1924. . 1,613,372 987,867 137,112 488,396
1925. . 1,685,960 1,036,473 140,373 509,114
1926.. 1,777,280 1,143,303 137,169 1,255 495,652
1927.. 1,834,631 1,208,544 138,508 1,558 \ , r o
To General Reserve, £32,318 j
1928. . 1,941,408 1,187,815 146,746 3,321 ( , KQ
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £50,000 ) 0dd > & 26
1929. . 1,997,015 1,279,446 159,340 |
Transferred to General Reserve, £50,000 ;.}■ 498,229
to Income Tax Reserve, £lO,OOO J
1930.. 2,109,372 1,379,792 183,170 10,870 |
Transferred to General Reserve, £200,000; [-267,640
to Income Tax Reserve, £68,000 J
1931.. 2,022,483 1,518,274 182,488 131,981 1 177 7 , n
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £12,000 j
■"lncludes dividends to shareholders.
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1905.. 199,426 51,095 84,039 8577 55,715
1915.. 337,959 72,835 143,912 121,212
1920.. 446,911 154,264 201,103 1619 89,925
1923.. 571,676 177,315 255,621 2222 136,518
1924.. 606,121 199,890 248,667 3010 154,545
1925.. 647,779 210,802 260,596 3003 173,378
1926.. 702,441 220,950 266,648 3726 211,117
1927.. 748,088 266,027 284,818 2512 194,731
1928.. 774,993 270,683 283,702 2610), Qn7 QQQ
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £lO,OOO ) ■ au '»99B
1929.. 786,542 324,782 290,392 4438 ]
Transferred to General Reserve, £50,000; [■ 115,930
to Income Tax Reserve, £lOOO J
1930.. 815,475 342,047 294,398 5138 ( 1( - 7 BQ ,
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £16,000 )
1931.. 761,017 298,868 284,'009 267 \ 17 , R 7„
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £2OOO j
The business in force at the end of December
(£56,072,761) was £250,315 greater than the
amount on the books a year earlier. Thus
the co., which gathers about three-quarters
of its income in Australia and the balance
in Maoriland, Canada and the U.K., con-
tinues to make headway, despite the difficul-
ties. The rate of progress has been checked,
of course. But the board’s treatment of the
figures should give policy-holders a comfort-
able feeling with regard to the future.
The slip in the amount of new Ordinary
business written last year (£4,408,192) was
£803,340. In both departments combined, sur-
renders (£408,307) were £95,117 heavier. Yet
net premiums (£1,940,852) were only £4596
lighter, though interest and rents
(£1,011,200) fell away £36,265, due to legis-
lative cuts. After paying all legitimate
claims and exes., including an extra £100,506
of taxes (£168,552), sending £14,000 to the
tax reserve (now £169,000) and striking
£132,248 off the book value of securities,
£353,613, or £71,819 less than in the previous
year, was added to the assurance fund, rais-
ing it to £18,484,153 at the end of Dec. In
addition there was £400,000 reserved for con-
tingencies besides the provision for taxation.
Moreover, the “Wild Cat” believes that last
year’s writing off was an addition to inner
reserves. By thus locking up large amounts
in addition to the strong actuarial reserves
the management is providing for the main-
tenance of satisfactory bonuses in the future.
The amount available for distribution
amongst policy-holders and shareholders each
year is the difference between the assurance
fund and the liability under policy contracts.
These surpluses compare as follows:
1920. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Ordinary ... £388,556 £692,946 £661,468 £560,967
Industrial .. 66,267 76,730 77,438 66,022
The shrinkage in the figures over the last
two years is due to the substantial provision
made for contingencies, the growth in taxa-
tion and interest reduction legislation. There
are grounds for hopes that the worst of the
co.’s troubles in these respects, and also in
connection with surrenders, have passed; but
the political crisis in N. S. Wales and other
things make the future very uncertain. Not
less than 80 p.c. nor more than 85 p.c. of
the profits in both departments go to'policy-
holders, and the balance to shareholders, who
guarantee to handle the business at a cost
not exceeding 15 p.c. of the Ordinary and
45 p.c. of the Industrial income. Of last
year’s gross takings exes, made off with only
8.3 p.c. in the Ordinary and 26.2 p.c. in
the Industrial branch.
Policy-holders in the old Widows’ Fund
section received a compound reversionary
bonus (a bonus on the sum assured plus pre-
vious bonuses) of £2 p.c. last year as against
£3 p.c. in 1930. Still, the £2 was equal to
£3 6s. lid. p.c. on the sum assured alone.
Excepting n-on-profit policies in the Indus-
trial branch (valued on a p.c. basis) the
office assumes that its funds will earn only
3 p.c. net. After deducting taxes, last year’s
net interest was £4 11s. lOd. p.c. in the Ordi-
nary and £4 Bs. 7d. p.c. in the Industrial
department.
Assets are a satisfactory lot: —
1930. p.c. 1931. p.c.
Public securities. £16,709,964 83.2 £16,946,873 83.2
Mortgages .. 875,257 4.3 811,061 4.0
Loans on policies 1,612,939 8.0 1,820,538 8.9
Cash, book debts,
etc 531,424 2.6 510,211 2.5
Property.. .. 90,773 .5 90,773 .5
Other assets .. 275,641 1.4 180,488 .9
£20,095,998 £20,359,944
Liabilities* .. 892,687 780,543
Net assets ..£19,203,311 £19,579,401
•Other than under policies.
Thus last year’s spare cash was invested in
public securities, which consist largely of
Commonwealth paper, and in loans on
policies.
In 1930 shareholders received 100 p.c. on
their capital; the amount of last year’s dis-
tribution will be announced at the annual
meeting this week. It should be remembered,
however, that the management has to earn
£4 or more for policy-holders before £1
can be taken for shareholders.
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
, Dividends N
„ Pref. To Re- Re-
Nov., Profits. p.c.) Ord, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 182,090 26,791 Nil 155,299 155,299
1929.. 215,040 73,714 5 p.c. =91,675* 49,651 204,950
1930.. 76,430 75,000 Nil 1,’430 206,380
1931.. 18,071 Nil Nil 18,071 224,451
•Declared but not paid.
This co. is the outcome of the plan patiently
developed by the Hoskinses for the establish-
ment of steelworks on a large scale at Tort
Kembla, on the N. S. Wales South Coast.
It took over the Hoskins Co.’s assets at
Lithgow and elsewhere for £1,771,400, or
£443,731 less than the net value at which
they appeared in the old co.’s books. Dor-
man Long’s structural steel business, etc.,
in Australia, excluding the Sydney Harbor
Bridge contract, was bought for £399,130.
and a heavy steel-rolling mill was purchased
from Baldwins (Eng.) for £168,000. Howard
Smith also became interested, and the public
snapped 675,000 prefs. At Nov. 30 last
paid capital was £3,279,257 in a round mil-
lion 7i p.c. cum. prefs. and 2,700,007 ords.;
there was £420,750 still to come on the ords.
Incidentally, out of their allotment (1.446,400
ords.), the Hoskinses handed Dorman
Long 396,400 shares and Howard Smith
50,000 shares for coming into the venture.
The first blast furnace, capable of turning
out 800 tons pig-iron per day, was blown in
during August, 1928. But it was not until
the 12 months covered by the latest accounts
that the merchant bar and structural steel
mills were transferred from Lithgow and
erection of the 36in. mill from Baldwins was
completed. Nevertheless, results for the
first two years exceeded prospectus esti-
mates. In 1929 enough profit was claimed to
meet the pref. requirements and show 7.7
p.c. on average ord. capital, and a 5 p.c. div.
was declared; it was not paid owing to the
sudden change in the outlook. Then the
plant slowed down as public loan money gave
out and slackness in the construction and
other trades reduced the demand for iron
and steel products. Thus the profit claimed
m 1930 was little more than one-third of
the previous year’s, and only £1430 in excess
of the pref. div. Last year’s figure (£18,071),
which slipped £58,359, w r as not quite one-
quarter of the annual pref. requirements.
The co. does not broadcast output of the
various units of its big plant.
At Nov. 30 the book value of fixed assets
was only £177,216 less than paid capital and
reserves combined. So to carry shares in
other cos. with a book value of £391.309 and
more or less liquids totalling £499,226, the
board had gone to its bankers and others for
£605,932, as the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures shows:—
1928. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. £2,741,037 £3,253,007 £3,279,257
Sundry creditors. . 475,215 678,768 605,932
Fixed assets .. 2,277,672 3,212,596 3,326,492
Shares other cos... 242,918 391,309 391,309
Stocks .. .. 494,361 430,907 289’938
Book debts .. 351,617 188,652 191,814
Investments, cash, etc. 21,695 22,078 17,474
The year’s additions to the plant are 're-
flected in a spring of £113,896 in the book
value of fixed assets. To finance the outlay
and knock £72,836 off the debt, the stocks
item was reduced by £140,969 and £26,250
of fresh capital was gathered. When the
books closed outside liabilities exceeded the
more or less liquids, including stocks but
not shares, by £106,706, which was £69,576
more than the excess at the previous balance
The shareholdings are mainly scrip in
Southern Portland Cement and Southern
Blue Metal, both disappointments.
Until the relaxing of political and social
tension permits a restoration of confidence
and of business activity, appearances are
that the co. will have a struggle to earn
enough to pay pref. divs. Still, it operates
a key industry, and its plant is highly effi-
cient, which ought to mean satisfactory re-
sults as soon as sufficient orders can be gath-
ered.
On the market the prefs., which were at
par a couple of years ago, are now offered
at 10s. The backing is £3 10s. in net tan-
gibles, all in plant, etc., worth what it can
earn. The ords. are not listed.
Carlton Brewery, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Nominal
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
Dec., £ £ £ £
1921.. 62,195 3 p.c. = 1,234 60,961 800,095
Unexplained additions, £33,718 .. .. 833,813
1922.. 64,638 24 p.c. = 1,196 63,442 897,255
Cash distribution, 2s. per share, £41,127 856,128
1923.. 94,602 5 p.c. = 2,392 92,210 948,338
Cash distribution, 4s. per share, £79,906 868,432
Unexplained additions, £10,786 .. 879,218
Reserves capitalised, £770,017 .. .. 109,201
1924.. 97,485 * = 86,083 11,402 120,603
Unexplained additions, £20,786 .. 141,389
1925.. 112,060 12 p.c. = 98,038 14,022 155,411
1926.. 121,010 14 „ ~ 114,379 6,631 162,042
1927.. 130,616 14 „ ~114,379 16,237 178,279
1928.. 131,188 14 „ ~114,379 16,809 195,088
1929.. 130,021 14 „ „ 114,379 15,642 210,730
1930.. 102,022 104 „ „ 85,784 16,238 226,968
1931.. 73,925 8 „ „ 65,359 8,566 225,534
*Div. at rate of 5 p.c. p.a. with 2s. bonus paid in
first half; 11 p.c. p.a. paid on increased capital
in second half.
This is the second largest of the holding cos.
through which the public is interested in the
Carlton and United Breweries. It inherited
£893,502 of debt from the old Carlton and
West End cos. after the crash of the ’nineties,
and led the way in the big merger of 1907.
Divs. were anchored at 3 p.c. until the slate
was cleaned, which was in 1923. Then the old
capital (£46,975) was lifted to £816,992 by
a transfer from reserves, which had accu-
mulated as the debt was reduced, and a run
of 14 p.c. divs. followed. These were inter-
rupted by the change in conditions a couple
of years ago, and 10| p.c. was paid in 1930
and 8 p.c. last year.
Carlton’s own holding in the C.U.B. and
that of its subsidiary, in which it owns all
the shares, are as follows: —
C.U.B. Shares. Book Value.
Carlton .. .. 400,000 ords. £400,000
36,203 prefs. 45,254
Victoria . . .. 167,500 ords. 167,500
15,160 prefs. 18,950
What these and the co.’s other investments
have turned in this next comparison shows:
C.U.B. Vic. Co.’s
and Vic. Rents, Surplus
Dec., Cos.’s Divs. Interest, etc. Profits.
1926.. £100,883 £27,821 £2366
1927.. 106,336 26,985 5446
1928.. 106,336 28,638 5493
1929.. 106,336 28,310 5121
1930.. 89,430 30,910 3532
1931.. 75,384 25,654 599
For the 12 months to June 30 last the C.U.B.
sliced 3| p.c. off its div., reducing it to 11:1
p.c., the final being at the rate of 10 p.c.
p.a. Thus £14,046 less was received in divs.,
while rents, interest, etc., slipped £5256;
exes. (£18,311) were £3540 lighter, despite
extra taxation. The net result was 9 p.c.
on capital as against 12.5 p.c. and 15.9 p.c.
in 1930 and 1929 respectively. On the basis
of last year’s p. and 1. figures Carlton could
show 8.4 p.c. on its capital provided the
C.U.B. maintains its distribution at 10 p.c.
But the 10 p.c. is by no means certain.
For the 12 months to June 30 last the
C.U.B. showed 12.3 p.c. on its £1,950,000 of
capital as against 17 p.c. for the preceding
12 months, and an average of 23.3 p.c. for
the three years before that; and the full
effect of interest-reduction legislation and of
extra taxation had not been felt. Still, busi-
ness generally is now reported to be taking
on a slightly better tone in Vic., and the
operating co. has seized the opportunity which
the slump in hotel values gave it to secure
more of the trade. Nevertheless, the immediate
future is full, of doubt, depending largely
upon world price movements for our staples,
the seasons, Government finance and the
trend of taxation. All that can be said defi-
nitely is that the co. is well equipped to
benefit from any improvement in conditions.
At 295. Carlton’s pound shares return 5.4
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. Including the
co.’s proportion of C.U.B.’s visible layby,
the backing is approximately 30s. in net
tangibles.
Southern Portland Cement, Ltd.
t Dividends Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
Oct., £ £ £ £
1929*. 9,866 8549 Nil 1,317 1,317
1930.. 19,149 Nil Nil 19,149 20,466
1931.. 1,530 Nil Nil 1,530 21,996
*Five months.
Much was expected of this co. at the begin-
ning, it missed the market. It has
£849,889 of capital to feed in 300,000 8 p c
cum. prefs., called to 145., and 639,885
fully-paid ords. A year or so ago Howard
bmith and Australian Iron and Steel each
held 138,299 prefs. and 248,000 ords., and
Dorman Long and Noyes Bros, ai’e also
said to be interested.
The co. was formed in 1927 to manufac-
ture cement by the wet process, and it took
up the freehold of some 430-odd acres of
limestone, _ shale, barite and coal deposits
near Berrima (N.S.W.) for the purpose.
Some, of the land was cut up and sold, the
deposits were opened up, an electric-power
plant was installed, and cement works cap-
able of turning out 150,000 tons per annum
were erected on the spot. Production began
in May, 1929, and for the five months to
the end of Oct. a net profit of £9866 was
claimed, of which the pref. div. took £8549.
Since then there has been such a heavy and
continuous falling off in the demand for
cement that the works have had to close
down from time to time as stocks accumu-
lated, and prices have been lowered in an
effort to encourage business. Hence the poor
showing in 1930 and the meagreness of the
figure last year, when both lots of share-
holders were passed by again.
Moreover, there is a substantial overdraft
and trade debt calling for reduction, as this
next comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows:—
1928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £510,495 £849,739 £849,889 £849,889
Overdraft . . 106,473 246,785 234,753 240,075
Sundry creditors 132,056 143,685 119,617 91,106
Freeholds, plant,
rights, etc. 767,034 1,136,650 1,138,775 1,115,489
Stocks .. 36,177 54,589 52,163 55,132
Book debts . . 5,570 56,207 33,550 32,408
Ca.sh.. .. 241 2,629 236 38
Last year there was a net growth of £5322
in the overdraft. This, the allowance for
depreciation, etc. (£23,286 more was written
off than was spent of fixed assets) and a
reduction of £1142 in debtors’ balances
enabled £28,511 to be clipped off the amount
coming to sundry creditors, and £2969 to be
added to the stocks item. When the books
closed outside liabilities exceeded the more
or less liquids, including stocks, by £243,603,
which was £24,818 less than the excess at
the previous balance.
There is no danger of the eye being dazzled
by the brightness of the outlook for the
industry, which is heavily over-capitalised.
Public loan expenditure lias practically
ceased, and is not likely to be revived on
the old scale, while the construction trades
have come almost to a standstill. In N. 8.
Wales the position has been made worse by
industrial legislation, actual and threatened,
and the Government is being urged by some
of its supporters to put up cement works of
its own. The annual plant capacity of the
five chief producers in the State is some
750,000 tons of cement. Sales in 1928 were
282,800 tons ; 1929, 280,000 ; 1930, 177,300 ;
1931, 116,500. That is to say, assuming that
plant cost on the average £5 per ton of capa-
city, which is somewhere near the mark, no
less than £3,167,500 of capital invested in the
industry was not earning anything last year.
Until better times come along, this is pretty
certain to mean severe competition and
narrow profit margins.
The Southern co.’s prefs. carry a fixed
cumulative 8 p.c. and have priority as to
capital. Including an unspecified amount
for rights, etc., the net asset backing is
58s. 6d., all represented by fixed assets, wbrth
what they can earn.
Spencer’s Pictures, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £>£,£,
1921.. 10,361 10 p.e. = 12,000 194
1922.. 5,434* 2-J „ „ 3,000 2434 2628
1923.. 9,882 7* ~ „ 9,000 882 3510
1924.. 8,230 7J „ „ 9,000 - 2740
1925.. 12,808 10 „ „ 12,000 808 3548
1926.. 10,089* 10 „ „ 12,000 1637
1927.. 13,044 10 „ „ 12,000 1044 2681
1928.. 12,762 10 „ „ 12,000 762 3443
1929.. 19,612 10 ~ „ 22,606 449
1930.. 15,167 5 ~ ~ 14,883 284 733
1931.. 2,430 Nil 2430 3163
*lncludes £2352 and £72 respectively, profit on
sale of freehold.
This is one of the holding cos. through
which the public is interested by a tangle
of interlocking share interests in the now
very sick group of Union picture theatres.
The Union Co. was the outcome of a merger,
in 1913, between Amalgamated, West’s and
Spencer’s, all of which sold their showing
rights, etc., to a new concern, the General
Film Co., for scrip. This new co. then
formed Australasian Films and Union to
do the hiring and showing respectively. All
the scrip in these two operating cos. is held
by General Film and Greater J. D. Williams,
which also joined the organisation. Until
about five years ago, each of the operating
cos. had a paid capital of £300,000. Union
recently lifted its figure to £1,000,000 by
cash issues.
Hence Spencer’s put out an extra £177,714
of its own paper, making its paid capital
£297,714, of which £275,269 was represented
by shares in General Film at Aug. 31.
1931. Other assets at that date were deben-
tures in General Film, £32,900; freehold,
etc., £3244; sundry debtors, mainly other
members of the family, £14,577; cash. £l9.
There was only £760 coming to creditors.
No divs. were paid by the operating cos., so
Spencer’s shareholders went hungry for the


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
:£ * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and- Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES-
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fus?
Detonators
Cartridges
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LTD. AND REDUCED.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores, Silver and Silver Ores,
Gold and Silver Bullion. Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates, Scrap Copper,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS of Refined Gold. Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate
(Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the
Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or
Port Kembla Office. The company will realise it on your account at current
London prices plus exchange, and will issue you a certificate to enable you
to collect the Gold Bounty.
ROYAL GOLD & CURRENCY EXCHANGE CO
(Registered)
Highest Rates for the following Currency:
40 MARTIN
PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Phone:
85417
English Silver Coin.. & 1 3 8
English Copper Coin. . 116
English Notes . . 14 8
Gold Coin . . .. 111 0
sd
Licensed Buyers of Alluvial Gold and Broken Jewellery of all
kinds. Specialists in Black Opals.
Reference:
E„ S. & A.
Bank, Sydney.
New Zealand
and Interstate
clients consign
all goods
direct.
Your Altered
Financial Position
will probably necessitate your making a new will. If-so, appoint
as your Executor and Trustee, Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited), a corporate body which has had forty-five years
experience in the administration of Estates and which can never
die or leave the country. Write or call for free explanatory
Booklet.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director.
H. Y. Douglass, Manager.
12 months covered by the latest accounts,
and it is difficult to say when they are likely
to come into the picture again.
Following the failure of two subsidiaries
in which the public is interested to pay their
S p.c. pref. divs., which Uniop and Aus-
tralasian Films had guaranteed along with
£600,000 of capital, the veil was drawn
from combined figures of the guarantors in
August last. The position disclosed at Dec.
27, 1930, compared with that four years
earlier as follows :
Combined Figures Union and Australasian Films.
1926. 1930.
Paid capital £600,000 £1,300,000
Mortgages 193,119 56,645
Debentures . . . . ■ ■ 73,800 „oq’i qq
Overdrafts 24,610 223,199
j joans 90,207
Sundry creditors . . . • 171,986 368,813
Freeholds . . .. • • 254,509
Plant .. . . . . . . 66,002 204,402
Stocks .. -• •• •• 212,096 96,956
Deposits on contracts, etc. . . 148,340 170,117
Investments . . • • • • 10(i >221 Uh 92,970
Leases and goodwill . . .. 599,767 603,707
Thus, in addition to £700,000 of fresh capi-
tal, £361,349 net had been added to the out-
side debt, raising it to £824,864 at the end
of 1930. The £1,061,349 of extra funds
thus raised was used mainly to help finance
the building and purchase of theatres and
their conversion into talkie houses. Except-
ing the comparatively small amount of film
stocks, the co. had no readily liquid assets.
Investments included 693,800 ords., paid
to £658.800, in the two subsidiaries which
own the “State” theatres in Sydney and
Melbourne. At their last balancing dates
the combined debts of these pups (£322,093,
of which £290,000 was mortgages) exceeded
their combined liquids by £249,015.
Toward the close of last year Union went
into voluntary liquidation, and a receiver
was appointed on behalf of the bank. The
assets, or most of them, were sold to a
group of new cos.—Greater Union Theatres,
Ltd. (nominal, £500,000), which is now the
chief operating concern, Greater Union
(Extended), Ltd. (nominal, £500,000) and
Greater Union (Tas.), Ltd., which are
mainly holding cos., and Greater. Union
(Management), Ltd. No hint is given as
to the basis on which the various deals
were put through. Apparently most of the
old debts remain, though the reconstruction
probably brought some relief through the
termination of old contracts. The shares in
the new concerns are all held by the cos.
which owned the scrip in the old Union Co.
Hence Spencer’s say their interest in the
business remains undisturbed. Since the new
cos. were formed in October last they are
reported to have earned moderate profits.
But takings in the business are nothing like
they used to be, special taxation has
been imposed, and until the amount of
outside debt is substantially reduced it is
very doubtful whether there will be enough
to enable Spencer’s, West’s, Amalgamated
and Greater J. D. Williams to pay anything
worth mentioning in the way of divs. on their
respective capitals.
The market prices Spencer’s pound shares
at 4s. 6d.
Southern Blue Metal
Estimates got all awry with this co. from
the jump; shareholders have not received
any dividends, nor are prospects of one in
sight. The co. was launched in Oct., 1926,
to w T ork large blue-metal deposits near Moss
Yale (N.S.W.), on the Southern railway
line. The vendor took £65,000 in paids, and
the public rushed to put up £lOO,OOO. Pre-
sently Australian Iron and Steel and Howard
Smith became interested, taking between
them some 83,000 shares. Thus paid capital
grew to £248,000, at which figure it still
stands.
The prospectus saw a div. of 15 p.c. in
the third year on an output of 300.000 tons
p.a. But shortly after production began un-
expectedly heavy overburden was met with ;
this restricted output and increased costs.
Then fresh troubles cropped up—the old
steam-shovel failed to do the work expected
of it, and had to be replaced by a new elec-
tric one early in 1929. Thus the board w y rote
net profit at £1522, 1928, and £l9l. 1929.
Since then the plant is reported to have
worked smoothly; but with the exception
of repair work there has been an almost
complete cessation of road and other con-
struction activities. Thus the demand for
metal has been greatly reduced, and prices
have had to be cut in order to hold business,
while costs remained rigid. So a loss of
£827 showed up in 1930, followed by a loss
of £6864 for the 12 months to the end of
last October. There whs then £5979 of the
share capital unrepresented by tangibles in
the books.
The real value of assets, however, is what
they can earn. At the close of accounts free-
holds figured at £68,900; leasehold, £21.615;
plant, etc., £164.115; stocks, etc., £11.138;
book debts, £2308; cash, etc., £263. Thus
there were more or less liquids totalling
£23.709, including stocks, to meet outside
liabilities of £26,317 —overdraft, £19,784;
sundry creditors, £7060. During the year
debtors’ balances were reduced by £9205 and
the stocks item by £2533; but owing to the
loss only £6924 net was snipped off the debt.
With both public and private expenditure
cut to the bone, it is difficult to find a bright
spot in the eo.’s immediate outlook.
Queensland Forests, Ltd.
('Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) When does repayment of the £lOO per
bond in Queensland Forests beginf (~)
What will be the legitimate method of dis-
tribution ? (3) To what extent, if any, will
holders of “early marketing ccrtificates ,, be
entitled to prior payment? —B9s9.
(1) The conditions of bond state that
the trustee for the bondholders shall hold
the milling and marketing trust fund
(£26,379 at June 30 last) “until such time
after June 1, 1939, as the co. shall deter-
mine to sell” the forest products, etc.; there
is a proviso that, should the co. fail to
begin marketing within one year after June
1, 1947, the trustee, by direction of a
majority in value of the bondholders, shall
direct the co. to do so. (2) ‘The net
proceeds of all sales, realisation, marketing
and conversion shall from time to time imme-
diately upon the receipt thereof by the co.
be paid to the trustee in trust for and on
behalf of the bondholders. Bondholders shall
be entitled to receive from the trustee the
net proceeds until a' sum of £lOO in the
aggregate for each £5 bond (and not inclu-
sive of any interest or any payments) shall
have been paid to the bondholders, respec-
tively, when the bonds shall be deemed to be
fully paid.” (3) Under the co.’s early mar-
keting scheme bondholders are asked for an
extra £2 per bond in order that the co. may
proceed with conversion and marketing of
the timber immediately. Amongst other
things, this means that the co. will imme-
diately begin to earn a commission of 5 p.c.
on sales. It thus gets its cut before bond-
holders, who are entitled only to net pro-
ceeds, after all exes., including the commis-
sion, have been paid. According to litera-
ture that was sent out by the co.’s managing
agents, E. S. and B. C. Moulton, Ltd., the
bondholder who does not take .up certifi-
cates “is content to receive nothing for the
next 10 years or more.” Apparently the
intention is to pay the net proceeds of sales,
etc., to certificate holders until June 1, 1939,
and thereafter to distribute net proceeds
amongst all bondholders of the series con-
cerned. This appears to be in direct con-
flict with the first condition of the co.’s
bonds, which says: “Each and every bond
... .is part of a series of 18,000 bonds... .
all of which are to share equally in the
whole of the net proceeds of the produce of
certain land, hereafter described, without
any preference or priority as between them-
selves.” But the land from which it is
proposed to take timber for these early sales
was not described in the circular asking
bondholders to take up the certificates
referred to. At June 30 last the co. .had in
reserve 3345 acres, estimated to contain over
33 million feet of timber. It may consider
it better business to mill and market this
timber on a commission basis for bond-
holders than attempt the job on its own
account.
Bulolo’s first returns are not so good as
many hoped they would be. But it is too
soon yet to form any worth-while opinion
as to how the property will turn out; not
until the dredge settles down and has opened
up a wide face will it be able to show what
it can really do. For the week to
March 28 the machine was digging itself
flotation room, and the material was put
through dry. Bottom was reached on March
30, and for the six days to April 3 42.000
c.y. were turned over for 9000 gold dollars,
an average of about per yard, with
the dollar at par. Costs were not stated.
The prospectus put values at 2s. Id. and
costs at 74d. On the market Bulolo’s scrip
eased slightly to 535.; Placer’s, after touch-
ing £B. fell sharply to £7 7s. 6d. (forward).
Both are five-dollar (Canadian) shares.
3; * * *
Queensland Minister for Mines Atherton
says that Mt. Wandoo has possibilities, but
values between the veins have yet to be
proved. In other words, there seems to be a
lot of Queensland mixed up with what ore
there is in sight. Original estimates varied
from 460 z. of gold and 112 oz. silver per ton
to 4.730 z. gold and 21.40 z. silver. Government
Geologist L. C. Ball pronounced the out-
cropping to be low grade. There are some 80
persons on the ground, and the Government
is helping to sink a well for drinking water.
The battery, now being erected, will be sup-
plied from a creek near by. Concentration
will be necessary'for some of the ores, which
carry a high percentage of arsenic, but others
are said to be amenable to ordinary amal-
gamation.
* ❖ ❖
“Old Warden”: The isolated Batavia
River goldfield, on the western side of Cape
York Peninsula, was discovered in 1892
by William Baird, and has since enjoyed
fluctuating fortune as a digger’s field. Now
that the new motor road from Port En-
deavour, on the east coast, has made the
field more accessible, two batteries and a
dewatering plant are being erected. Under
the new conditions Peninsula Mines, recently
floated in Brisbane with a capital of £20,000
in 4s. shares, look to be the most promising.
On the board are Edward Densley, John
English and A. H. McKenzie. Densley is
also in the new New Year’s Gift (Batavia),
which has yielded over £12,000 worth ot
gold, and another £40,000 worth is expected
to be taken out by the end of this year.
There are 26 men working on the Gift, and
adjoining leases are being explored. Also a
deep shaft is to go down on the John Eng-
lish lease, and it will not be a poor man s
job. Most of the shallow ground has been
worked out.
* * * *
No. 4 Extended of the old Sunset Mine
at Ravenswood (N.Q.) has been dewatered.
Six men are hard at work under Mr. Judge,
and have struck promising stone. The old
lode is thought to be very handy; if so,
there will be some kick left in Ravenswood.
*❖**
Diamond drilling continues at Mystery
Flat, Charters Towers. The directors an-
nounce that subscription lists have been
closed, and the latest report states that
147 ft. have been cored; only hard granite
has been disclosed. The objective is the old
St. Patrick’s Reef, 500 ft. depth.
$ * * *
Promising developments are reported from
Gulgong, one of the richest N.S.W. alluvial
fields of long ago ; it was abandoned when
heavy water intrusion and the dipping of
the wash under a basalt blanket made work-
ing exes, prohibitive. Gulgong Gold Options,
recently formed to trace the old Happy
Valley and Black leads, has bottomed on
the wash with a 150 ft. shaft through the
basalt. Trial washes of the drift show
good gold, and the shaft is being further
deepened. Some of the wash from these leads
went as high as 40oz. to the yard in the
roaring days.
*•* * *
A couple of months ago two experienced old
hands, looking over part of the old Barossa
diggings (S.A.), noticed a good big speck
washed clear by the previous night’s rain on
a dump beside a pothole. They ran the
heap through the cradle, and were rewarded
with a little over soz. of gold. Then they
went right over the patch, and got another
60z., mostly coarse stuff, and passed on.
Next a surly old hatter shifted camp to a
patch which bore every indication of having
been thoroughly prospected in the early days.
He ran a trench across the head of it. putting
anything that looked like pay-dirt through
the cradle. As the work proceeded he
bought a new tent, a fresh outfit of clothes,
new tools, a good horse and a second-hand
dray, and later set off to have a look at
some of the Victorian fields.
* * * *
The secretary Amalgamated Kawarau
Gold Claims writes :
“Miner” (B. 16/3/’32) has not stated the position
quite correctly. There were no bondholders in the
parent co.; claimholders and tributors found the
capital to complete the dam at Wakitipu Falls.
The amount was approximately £120,000, of which
not more than £25,000 was Australian money.
The lease of the river from the Maoriland Govern-
ment has 35 years to run. Together with the dam
and other assets, it was recently taken over by the
claimholders, and a new co. was formed with a
capital of £500,000 to work it. Professor Hornell,
the Swedish engineer, inspected the Kawarau in 1930
and advised an efficient scheme of water control.
Presently £250,000 worth of ss. shares will be
offered simultaneously in London, Australia and
Maoriland to provide working capital.
* * * *
A rich strike is reported from Karanga-
hake (M.L.), a locality well known for
its °old and cinnabar deposits. Claims cover-
ing over 300 acres of the reef system have
been staked, and interested parties are look-
ing to London for backing.
* * * *
A Wellington syndicate has acquired the
McNeill group of mines—the Red Trail.
Lone Trail and Golden Trail all noitli or
Coromandel (M.L.). Samples have shown
4oz. gold to the ton, and a Diesel-powered
crushing plant is being installed.
Enterprise (late Boulder No. 1) at Ival-
goorlie (W.A.), over which the B. H. 1 rop.
has taken an 18 months’ option, has im-
pressed many mining geologists. Dr. Stii-
well in 1930 said the occurrence in the lease ot
an untried greenstone belt, in whieh_a substan-
tial ore body was found at the 350 ft. level,
provides scope for prospecting both in depth
and along the strike. Also known but un-
tested lode channels enter the Enterprise,
and these may contain payable shoots at
depth. In 1929 the Westralian Govern-
ment put out three bores horizontally west
and south from the 773 level of the Ham-
ault mine These showed that the main
Enterprise lode at this level, where pene-
trated, was 2ft. wide as against Bft. to 20tt.
in the upper levels.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
If more nations of the world went, off the
gold, standard, would this off
the price of the metal?. 9a—3.
After Britain went “off gold the price or
the metal rose in terms of the English paper
pound. That was because Britain s costs,
compared with those of other countries wet-
previously too high with gold at the statu-
tory price of £4 4s. lUd. per ounce fine It
more countries went "off gold the tendenc.i
would be for their costs and price levels
to strengthen. Leaving other tactois
out of the reckoning, this could be expected
to raise the price of gold in their paper-
units of account. Rising prices however,
tend to decrease the value of gold in terms
of commodities. Take wheat, for instance.
In September, 1931, the average price m
Australian notes was 28d per bushel; sterl-
ing (English paper), 21.5 d.; gold. 20d. For
the week ending March 17 last the figures
were Australian, 39.1 d.; English, 31.3 d..
gold, 23.3 d,
(1) Value of (/old produced in Australia?
(2) Value of gold held in Australia to-day
by Governments, banks and private holders,
etc. ? —9335.
(1) From 1851 to 1929 total value
£629,666,921. No official records of produc-
tion kept prior to the discovery in 1851.
And early official records fall short of
actual production; large quantities of gold
were taken out of Australia without the
amount being declared. (2) Trading banks
have handed their gold to Commonwealth
Rank, which now holds £10,500,000 against
note issue. Private holdings are mainly in
the form of jewellery, ornaments and per-
haps hordes of coin; no statistics relating
thereto are available.
(1) Quantity of charcoal required to pre-
cipitate one ounce of gold? (2) Will copper
or zinc if present in solution be precipitated
with gold? (3) Will charcoal precipitate
gold from an acid solution? —9045.
(1) The limit of charcoal precipitation
from cyanide is about 2000 oz. of gold per
ton of charcoal. (2) and (3) Yes.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
F.E.8.: (1) All three are soundly financed;
Tooheys, for preference. (2) N0....P.5.: (1) Pro-
vided the shares have been properly allotted, you are
liable to pay the full amount, no matter what the
share salesman said. Any redress you may have
would be against him. (2) Prospects appear to be
hopeless. See B. 18/11/’3l F.J.M.: No, only the
profit on share transactions is taxable. (2) Aus-
tralian Consols show a higher return, free of State
taxes, but the market is liable to fluctuate with
political and fiscal developments. Melbourne and
Metropolitan Board of Works debentures are worth
considering. (3) The management is right and the
finances are comfortable, but past performances are
no guide to the future in this class of business.
The immediate outlook is full of difficulties. .. .
Childers: (1) No. (2) Write Queensland Mines
Department.... Bonds: See B. 2/3/’32. . . .M.H.: (1)
Last div. 74 p.c. in Aug., 1930. (2) It is proposed
to return Is. per share; to cancel 6s. per share
unpaid ; and to write off 2s. per share in order to
wipe out preliminary exes. ( £40,373). When com-
plete, all this will leave co. with paid capital of
£217,917 in 11s. fully-paids. (3) Everything
depends upon soundness of advances ( £217,495 at
June 30, last) .. . .C.B. and J.M.: Yes, it. would be
possible to crush and cyanide 200,000 tons per
month. Capital required would depend upon many
things, including nature and extent of deposit. You
can make up your mind that £1,009,000 would not
be sufficient.... Anxious Policy-holder: See B.
30/12/’31... .C.0.G.: Until results of recent develop-
ments are made known, future of New Deloraine
remains uncertain. Cannot trace New Guinea Aero-
gold; not at address given.... Anxious: (1) All new
ventures are speculative, and this one doubly so.
Don’t touch it. (2) Not unless the co. is prepared
to enter into a contract to purchase the product....
R.C.: Mr. Campbell has been appointed official
liquidator by the Court. (2) Apply to the liqui-
dator ; if he refuses, the only course open is to
apply to the Court. Consult your solicitor first.
(3) Cannot say; depends on legal fees.... Perth:
(.1) The Bank of N. S. Wales did not close its
doors in 1893 or at any other time. (2) The
standard price, of gold was and still is £3 17s.
IOJd. Standard gold is 11-12ths fine.. . .D.J.C.:
See B. 23/12/’31... .Western (1) Sydney, 1926.
(2) Net tangibles were £60,093 .short of the
assurance fund at June 30 last. (3) That would
depend upon what the co.’s actual position was at
the moment. (4) and (5) Yes, write to the co.
and ask for the surrender value of the policy.
(6) See B. 21/10/’3l.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Grand Opera Season
Criterion “Blue Roses”
“ OYAL “Bright Side Up”
&TATB Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
® oyAl ‘ “Bitter Sweet”
'’ ,TATE Movies and Talkies
♦
The opening of the Firm’s 1932 opera
season at Sydney Her Majesty’s on Satur-
day night reintroduced to the Australian
public that very gifted conductor Emilio
Rossi, who had under his baton an adequate
orchestra and some highly-polished singers.
“Aida,” begun by Verdi as an irksome task
but blossoming as the work proceeded into
the finest flower of the elderly composer’s
art, occupied the stage. There is no room
in opera for emotional ambiguity, and this
romantic drama is clothed in music which
adorns it like a beautifully-woven glove on
a shapely hand. The conventions of opera
—particularly of Italian opera—being
accepted, “Aida” approaches near to perfec-
tion as a vehicle for the art of singers, instru-
mentalists and the other people who contri-
bute to the theatrical illusion. The choice of
this work for the opening, therefore, must be
taken as a token either that the company
which performed it is very sure of its pow-
ers, or that it did not expect to face a very
critical audience. And as the principals
were recalled with enthusiasm, not once but
many times, after each curtain-fall—at one
stage a misplaced salvo of applause held up
the action of the play—it was certainly right
on one count or the other. The kindness of
the audience, the fine singing of all the
leading characters, the impeccable musician-
ship of the conductor and the general
adequacy of the staging notwithstanding, this
Showman didn’t get out of this “Aida” what
Verdi put into it, for the simple reason that
he found it impossible to swallow Anna-
Surani’s Aida. Miss Surani is a charming
singer, and, as far as operatic requirements
go, a competent actress. But as the shrink-
ing, timid slave-girl who infatuated the aris-
tocratic Rhadames, she placed too much
strain upon the imagination. A suitable
Brunhilde, perhaps, but no Aida. And her
Ethiopian complexion was spotty and smudgy.
The rest of the cast was more appropri-
ately chosen and less grotesquely made up.
Bruna Castagna, another buxom lady, put
a lot of fire into her Amneris. Pedro Miras-
sou, though he sang “Celeste Aida” rather
tamely, was later equal to the demands the
role of Rhadames made upon him, and Apollo
Granforte has lost not one whit of the force
and agility, both vocal and physical, that
characterised his performances when he was
last in Australia. His Amonasro left little
to be desired. Pharaoh and his chief priest
were imposingly bodied forth in the portly
frames of Michele Fiore and Albino Marone
respectively. The chorus, whether supposed
to be at a distance or running full throttle
in the rousing finale to Act I, was effective,
and would not have disgraced soloists of
greater fame and brilliance than those who
took the stage.
A feature lacking, unless this Showman’s
memory is at fault, in previous produc-
tions of the opera, was a grotesque dance of
little blackamoors in Act 11. It was cleverly
done, and fitted neatly enough into the
picture.
One doesn’t, of course, go to opera for
ethnological exactitude, but it should be pos-
sible to get the complexions of the Egyp-
tians standardised to some extent. Rha-
dames, Ramphis, the king, and the priests
exhibited various shades of saffron. Am-
neris, all her. ladies and the priestesses of
Isis were white, though there is no warrant
from Verdi, his librettist, Locle, or the his-
tory of Egypt for believing that they were
imported Circassians. Following an error
that has become traditional, though it re-
mains a clumsy anachronism, the Egyptian
band in the triumphal scene sported nickel-
plated euphoniums and cornets of the most
modern pattern. The Firm, however, is to
be congratulated on providing no fewer than
four of the long straight trumpets that give
the march its. essential character, and on
making a particularly good job of the moon-
light in Act 111.
* * *
Noel Coward’s “The Vortex,” staged by
the Pickwick Theatre Group at Sydney
Savoy Theatre, is even worse than what one
might expect from a work of the author’s
immature period. The first act is tedious.
The audience is introduced to an assembly
of decadents and degenerates in a London
apartment. There are Florence Lancaster
(Patricia Pantin), an excitable middle-aged
woman, desperately striving to keep young;
Pauncefort Quentin (R. E. G. North), a
lounge lizard with a paunch and greyish hair;
Clara Hibbert (Dorothea Vautier), a jaded
singer; Tom Veryan (Bill Firth), an athletic
young man infatuated with Florence; and
Nicky Lancaster (Phillip Lewis), son of
Florence and a musician. The only normal
people are David Lancaster (Crofton Hal-
lam), Florence’s hudband—though he is a
washed-out specimen, Helen Saville (Phyllis
Fuller) and Bunty Mainwaring (Mary
Wells), Nicky’s fiancee. ' From a torrent of
dull small talk one learns that Florence is
very gay and has had a string of lovers, and
that she is attached tocher son, who is irri-
table. Act II is slightly enlivened by a
quarrel between Nicky and Bunty. Helen
Saville later takes the young man aside and
accuses him of being a drug addict. Nicky
admits that he is. Bunty and Tom drift
into each other’s arms and are observed by
Florence, who orders them from her house,
but, when Tom is leaving, cries to him to
come back to her. Nicky is disgusted, and in
Act 111 he tells his mother exactly what
lie thinks of her conduct. After a merciless
flaying he confesses his addiction to nar-
cotics, and promises to break the habit if
Florence will swear off philandering and
become a good Wife to her neglected hus-
band. She swears. Curtain. Miss Pantin
did her best to brighten the earlier acts and
was spirited in the last act. Phillip Lewis
gave her excellent support in the tempes-
tuous parts. Phyllis Fuller was natural
and Mary Wells spoke charmingly. A. C.
Winn produced the show.
Last week two more evenings were devoted
oy the Australian Play Society to its one-
acter tournament at iEolian Hall, Sydney.
\ B. Lenehan’s “Lottery” deals with the
effect on a family of a false rumor that they
have won a large lottery prize. Enid Baum-
bcrgs Hereafter” depicts a scene outside
the Pearly Gates, with Gabriel sitting in
judgment on those who seek to enter. The
Hevil lies handy in the offing to take de-
livery of rejects. K. M. Michael’s “The
twelfth Man” describes the uproar in a jury-
room at a manslaughter trial when one juror
holds out for an acquittal against all the
others. .Llie dissentient knows that another
juryman had a hand in the crime. James
Glennon’s “Dream Errant” is a wistful item,
the scene a hermit’s hut. “Spero’s” “Memo-
ries ranges over 30 years and is concerned
with a woman’s internal controversy as to
whether she will become a wife or pursue a
career. T. Inglis Moore’s “No Robbery” is a
tale of wife and husband swapping, an experi-
wHi didn’t turn out successful. Doris
V\ alker s “Strained Relations,” in the same
strain as “Lottery,” but with a little more
humor, suggests that sudden riches don’t
bring harmony and happiness. “Olio’s” “Rich
Man, Poor Man” was also among those
staged. The final batch will be presented
this evening.. A pleasant feature of the
tournament is the sporting way in which
members of most of the am. dram. socs. in
the city have given their help.
V- * *
Nellie Bramley continues her revivals of
the classics at Melb. Comedy. Her second
offering was “Pollyanna,” the piece which
started the plague of Cinderella plays whicli
has since spread from the United States
to every habitable corner of the universe
despite quarantine precautions. Miss Bram-
ley does the little orphan girl—nearly si's
feet high in Miss Bramley’s case—who
twiddles her thumbs, bangs her knees to-
gether, stutters and stammers, puts one foot
on top of another, says “Ooh, ooh,” when
“AIDA.”
Top to bottom, left to right: King of Egypt makes an Empire-day speech. Conductor
Rossi approaches a dangerous passage. Amneris discourses of love. Last of the
little Hottentots. Rhadames looking superior. Aida sobbing her soul out.
Amonasro telling his troubles. Ramphis, a little nastier than usual.
spoken to, writhes like a lizard on a red-
hot plate one moment and is struck by
paralysis the next, and generally behaves like
a complete imbecile, while displaying the
wisdom of a Solomon and an Abraham Lin-
coln rolled into one as far as the rest of the
cast is concerned. It is a remarkable per-
formance for an actress of Miss B.’s
maturity.
# * #
“The Barretts of Wimpole-street,” which
has held the fort at Melbourne King’s for
eight weeks of well-deserved good business,
will cease on Saturday. On Monday the
garrison will turn to “Happy and Glorious,”
a dramatic spectacle in 15 scenes by Wilfrid
Walter. A Ballet Burlesque after the popu-
lar Russian manner will precede it. The
curtain-raiser is by Gabriel Toyne, the eo.’.s
producer.
¥ *
Adelaide Repertory’s first three-acter of
the 1932 season is Ben Levy’s “This Woman
Business,” light and witty, but stagey and
wordy. Given five woman-haters, professed
and proud of it, in one lonely house, and any-
body could safely predict the arrival of a
girl who will convert the lot of them —and
marry one. The first act consists mainly
of speeches denouncing women; and three
largely-feminine audiences took it all in a
merry spirit. Thelma Baulderstone rose well
to the demands of a character that must be
daughter, sister or lover as required. The
men were finely differentiated by Downey,
Glennon, Matthews, Crauford and —getting
most of the laughs as a much-married man
out of place in that crowd —Whittle.
Reginald Roberts lias made a fine
comeback as hero jin “The Chocolate Sol-
dier” at Adelaide Royal. Gladys Moncrieff,
though battling with a wayward larynx, sang
the trying “My Hero” finely; Foran is _ a
sound tenor, Molly Tyrrell an almost Gil-
bertiau mother, and Brett a comic figure
without buffoonery. The co. has also earned
good opinions by its work for charity. It
wrns funny to see Adelaide endanger its
Sunday-school certificate by witnessing one
act of the above choc, soldier at a “con-
cert” —in the theatre —on the Sabbath !
Poverty Point
“A. Flat”: This year, if everybody had
their rights, the memory of Muzio Clementi,
who died in March, 1832, ought to have had
some respect paid it by musicians. Though
born in Rome he lived most of his life in
London, and his bones are in the Abbey. Ho
was a composer and a craftsman—one of the
first of the piano-makers. Three sonatas he
wrote when he was 18 are the very first
works published explicitly for the "piano e
forte.” His dual capacity brought him in
touch with John Tschudi Broadwood, founder
of the piano-making firm, who took his advice
on various technical points. While working
in Longman and Broderip's factory in Paris
Clementi had as a fellow-apprentice
Frederick Collard, and the pair in 1800
founded in London the business so long asso-
ciated with Collard’s name. Though not in
the first flight of composers Clementi wrote
some very fine sonatas, and in his “Gradus
ad Parnassum,” still used by many teachers,
practically laid the foundation of pianoforte
technique. Another musician of note who
died in 1832 was Friedrich Kuhlau, composer
for the piano and a virtuoso of the flute. He
had one eye and a jovial disposition, being-
one of the very few of Beethoven’s contem-
poraries who was able to get that great, gloomy
soul on a binge. There’s a record of the
occasion among Beethoven’s letters, a note
to his dear friend Friedrich enclosing a
composition which is intended to replace one
Ludwig had dashed off the night before—the
answer to a canon extemporised by his
visitor. Beethoven confesses he had so much
champagne that he completely forgot what
he had written the night before, but is sure
that his sober effort will be very much better.
“L.H.P.”; A lot of Australia’s old stage
favorites are in collar in Fogland. Oscar
Asehe succeeds Holloway (ill) ag Fal-
staff in “The Merry Wives of Windsor”
at the Duchess in London. Sydney
saw Asche in the role in 1913. Elsie Prince,
so long with Fullers, is principal boy
at the Newcastle Royal, sister Kitty is
principal girl at Hanley Royal, and Edna,
the third sister, is Aladdin at Bournemouth
Royal. Barry Lupino, Harry Wotton and
Laddie Cliff are in “The Millionaire Kid”
at London Prince Edward, and Charles
Quarter main e (here in 1913) and Seymour
Hicks are in “The Gay Adventure” at the
Whitehall. The revived “La Poupee” at
Daly’s has Harry Hilliard (here in 1922)
as a monk, and George Zucco (here in
4,927) is supporting our coming visitor Sybil
Ihorndike at her “farewell” season at the
Old _ Vic.. Roy Russell (here in 1922) is
Achilles in a revived version of Offenbach’s
“La Belle Helene.” at Manchester Opera
House. Marriott Edgar, seen here in a
J.C.W. panto., is dame in a Belfast Opera
House show that includes Will Fyffe, of Tivoli
Show memory. Kitty Roidy, an Australian
lass, is the Prince of London Lyceum’s “Cin-
derella,” and Naughton and Gold are also
m the cast. Maie Bacon, here with Fullers
nanto 2G anrf p bin r lood at the Wimbledon
fs the life of thf Cy Lc Frf;l ' e > here in 1925,
p u a °' at the Bristol Princess.
is probablv• 'tn : London theatre
teaching § ff -ST?? just now , iu
new styles of int-, • t, I t 't set used to the
eyerv SLr ,! ? 1 ' decoration. Nearly
a modern er 1 !? P la J Produced has either
Platini all Ho Ur - IStIC settin B- usually dis-
and color. k JViore^ve n r eW it a ?/ ldeas in design
“advarrced” SS^the
coior UC a e nd there V'° - two abstr act designs in
carving n a HCI e IS , tIC T° 0 ¥ ,lg bit of wood-
the ontv ou.f,r at t 0 n et ’ ’ at tlle Criterion.
Mr ' ' A W a ? ezam,e ; iu “ M ax and
ax ’ - ?t the Vaudeville, there is j
•i Phi” i ' of the primitives. “It’s
mcal metal f «™iture and
The film? f Ju “ ost u P-to-date pattern,
id o ?.!o , aio fol] owing the same trend, but
sr , 0 ' tag ' J ma kes a deeper impression. A
acf B or n h f S to bo 100 hod at for a whole
film ilifs P frn apS a w hole play, whereas a
nun tuts from scene to scene.
est ?«?,? F . dgar Wallace had his great-
MV., U u -Australia when the Russian
teffifl^ M W, diBc^ered that the
one didn t want 'Sliakspeare, or at any rati
m™ IvS '"■* Sl».kspL re -a„d turned to
Of a'-ir e staged one after another
r s thrilling absurdities, and packed
?msct r fw dt,(l f hi !i d-oscieuce. K
infm? ? .ot other entrepreneurs stag-
evey a * U crook dramas which, while
laoUii v!L a s the Wallace’s,
ached his efficiency. A whole mythology ot
unreduced to spice things up—
-l as, Alsatian dogs masquerading as
%' d-fudung wolves, bats and what not.
tor? 2?n° tvere showers of gold from monas-
P’dais and lepers chasing passengers
beffon' t / oppehns. As the public interest
XT,:;* t 0 drag fresh devices were invented.
Auises and doctors stood ready in the
t heatres and ambulances waited without to
w ?\ y i uva -V Cm people whose nerves were torf
y ak for Wallacian horrors. Finally, some-
body thought of the bright idea of incor-
poiatmg the spectators in the play, and there
was a rush of bellowdramas in which the
audience was the jury at a murder trial and
so forth. Ihe craze collapsed as suddenly a«
it Had risen, but in the meantime the origin-
ator of the reign of terror had escaped from
the country with a fortune. I had no objec-
y.o.ll to Mosco. staging the sort of stuff'he
clul. but my soul revolted at his habit of
blaming the public taste for it, as he did
at every hnal-curtain speech. A potboiler is
a grievous spectacle,, but a potboiler with a
bad conscience is atrocious.
11 F^ n d’ : An almost incredible show is
old Ben Jonson’s “Volpone the Fox” as
pmyed at the Garrick by the Venturers’
bociety (to' a large house, on a Sunday even-
ing, having been “prohibited for public per-
formance —this is where you laugh—by the
Lord Chamberlain !) One Zweig made a
German play out of the original; this has
now been translated into American, and is
so played m Jonson’s own town, with all
his fine lines missing. But what does that
matter t As Herbert Farjeon, the critic, says
savagely, The smut remains—three hours
of unremitting Spice.”
Cauboy” : Is there any living playwright
who shows the same vitality as the octo-
genarian and vegetarian Shaw? Certainly
not Galsworthy, and A. A. Milne and Noel
Coward seem already old. But Shaw is as
fleshy and original as evor. His “Apple
Cart might have been the work of a hois-
terous youth. His latest work is “Too True
to Be Good” and is described by the author
as a collection of sermons by a Fellow of
the Royal Society of Literature. Hiddent-
a j’ ..Judging by the fact that “St. Joan”
aid B & ck to Methuselah” are still awaited
on the Australian boards, the young play-
goer will have to be as long-lived as G.B.S.
lf . he hopes to see it here. There is talk
of Margaret Rawlings doing the first and
last acts of “Methuselah” after the public
has done with “The Barretts” at Melb.
King s, but one never knows with the Firm.
Ihe same lady was going to do Wilde’s
palome, but after one rehearsal of the
piece J.C.W. got an attack of stage fright
from which it has not yet recovered.
“C. Ma.”: F. W. Thring is at present
engaged m the production of a musical
comedy for the screen. The stage has been
enlarged until it projects well into the
burnt-out stalls of His Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne. A royal palace set by Cole-
man is an _ excellent bit of scene-painting,
some of wiiich may be done in color. The
play is by Bijou comedian George Wallace,
who appears as a fish-vendor placed on a
European throne by one of those coinci-
dences that are common in musicomedy.
There are about 150 performers, the ladies
being culled from the ranks of the best
society. Some of them are buoyed up by
the belief that their voices will soon be
heard all over Australia, but as a matter of
fact the noises they are supposed to make
will be supplied by products of the local
conservatoria when the show comes to be
talkied.
■ “Playback”: According to a Hollywood
blah bulletin, Victor McLaglen has laid out
in his sumptuous Flintridge home (about
12 miles from Hollywood) a “garden of
friendship,” which consists of .shrubs and
trees presented by his movie friends; at the
base of each plant a copper plate embedded
in concrete bears the name of the donor and
his; or her position in the Hollywood flicker
business. A poetic and ladylike notion, but
what’s come over Victor? Can this be the
same “big Vic” McLaglen who wielded pick
and shovel on the Kalgoorlie goldfields in
the ’nineties; the same wandering battler
who traversed Australia, trying everything
once, and ultimately leaving it penniless to
chance his luck abroad? He was prize-
fighter, acrobat, soldier (he was in the
march into Bagdad) and movie extra before
he got his chance in “Wliat Price Glory?”
He and his brothers had a vaudeville act
(strong-man classical pose-stuff) in Aus-
tralia only a few years ago. His “garden of
friendship” was designed by his brother
Arthur, the Gabbett of “For the Term of
His Natural Life,” which was made here
a few years ago by Australasian Films.
Arthur went to Hollywood to crash the
movies, too, but so far he doesn’t seem to
have got anywhere.


THE SOAP-BOX
An attempt to answer some of the questions asked by correspondents.
Back to Man-power
Every machine attended by om operative
replacing an older type that cmployed ten
means nine families less to be served by
batcher, baker, builder, proprietor of the
picture theatre, etc. When all the ramifica-
tions of these various industries are affected
in their turn, industry as a whole is
ened with annihilation by the very labor-
saving devices which it uses so pioudy.
Meed' we look further than mechanised in-
dustry for the cause of the present economic
distress? — Philm (W.A.).
Probably there never was a time wnen all
this wasn’t said. Always the present genera-
tion has been so clever that it has done every-
thing that ought to be done. Had the same
plea been listened to, say, 50 years ago we
should now be without the motor vehicle,
wireless, moving-pictures, the aeroplane and
a few other things that have become neces-
saries. Two-thirds of our comforts, have
come to us through mechanisation; and still
the world is not saturated with comfort.
For example, half the people still live in
homes which the other half would call com-
fortless. though they are as comfortable as
those the richest could command 100 years
ago. Mechanisation does put men out of
jobs, but it opens up new jobs; what we
are suffering from is merely non-adjustment.
Through the ages this adjustment has had
to be made ; we had to find other jobs lor
the teamster, the coachdriver, the coach-
maker. the harness-maker; and we did it.
And we shall do our present job without
putting the clock back or even asking it to
stop.
Who Is Responsible for Lang?
Though I have no time for Lang and co.
I cannot understand The Bulletin’s atti-
tude towards Sir P. Game. After the people
of M.aS'.IF. had landed themselves in a mess,
the Governor is expected to take the respon-
sibility of dragging them out, even when so
many signify their preference for remaining
where they are. The Lang Government
should have been forced to the country long
ago by the banks, the Loan Council and the
N.S.W. Upper House; the former two in
the restriction of credit, and, the last in the
restriction of taxation. To my mind it, is
not the place of the Governor of N.S.W. to
interfere. —F. P. (W.A.)
Certainly the Governor has not the right
to interfere so long as his Ministers are
carrying out the policy with which they
went to the country. The whole point is
that Lang and his Ministers are doing things
which they undertook they would never do.
The Bolshevik teaching is to get control —
: mellow. “The tactics used are determined
solely by the power of the organisation to
make good in their use,” says a leaflet of
I.W.W. “principles.” “The question of right
or wrong does not concern us.” Thus, accord-
ing to Communist doctrine, _ a Communist
group would be justified in lying and making
false promises in order to secure control of
the government of the country, and the
question is whether a Governor has the
power in those circumstances of preventing
Ministers who got office by false pretences
from functioning. Tiie Bulletin says he
has that power; indeed, it is the most im-
portant of the powers and obligations which
have been left to him.
Capitalism or Communism?
It, is evident from many Buletin articles
that you realise Capitalism has failed, inas-
much as it places the cunning and the un-
scrupulous in the highest places, and, forces
honest men to beg their bread. The wise
men who manage the Soviet put Communism
in place of the thing that has failed. What
would you put there? —P. Jones (N.S.W.).
Tiie Bulletin doesn’t realise that Capi-
talism has failed. It does realise that Demo-
cracy, as practised, lias failed; and it is
mainly because of this failure that Capi-
talism is giving poor results. It was in
need of regulation ; and it has been so over-
regulated that it has not been able to func-
tion. Communism is merely being tested in
Russia; and every month it is finding it
necessary to throw some of its early prin-
ciples overboard. It is now paying more or
less according to merit (“merit” being the
qualities which made some men rich under
Capitalism), and the extra money these
men earn they can now spend as they please
in “open” shops. This suggests that Com-
munism sees that to succeed it must pick the
eyes out of Capitalism.
Capitalism and Unemployment
Under Capitalism it has to be admitted
there has been a failure to keep men em-
ployed. It is equally clear there has been
no such failure in Russia under the Soviet.
Does not this show the superiority of Com-
munism in dealing with the world’s great-
est problem? —S. C. IT. (Queensland).
There was a time when there were no
unemployed under Capitalism either. Nor
would there be to-day if Capitalism were
given the right to take men and force them
to work at the rates fixed by itself. Yet this
is the right the Communist Government pos-
sesses. If Communism is superior to Capi-
talism because there are no unemployed
under it, then our ideal is the dairy-farming
family in which boys and girls are made to
work from the age of 10, and are kept at
work until long after they should have mar-
ried and had places of their own. Absence
of unemployed doesn't prove superiority. It
may prove merely the existence of slave
conditions.
Elective Ministries
It seems to me you arc speaking with two
voices on the question of Elective Ministries.
;There was a time when you were all in
favor of it ; now you say that the muck-up
in the British Cabinet through tariff reform
being left an open question was inevitable.
Does The Bulletin see a way out, or is
party conflict inevitable? —B. E. J. (Papua).
It is a poor paper that doesn’t speak with
two voices about lots of things. It recom-
mends something; the thing is tried; it
fails. The paper which goes on recom-
mending the old tiling in those circumstances
is a rogue. Conditions also change; and,
partly because of those changes, nobody can
be certain how an experiment will pan out.
In theory it is absurd that a whole mob
of Ministers should have to pretend that
they agree upon a certain legislative. pro-
gramme, while a whole mob of Opposition-
ists should have to pretend that they see
disaster in every item of the programme.
The system explains why modern politics
are riddled with humbug and pretence and
make-believe and dishonesty. Yet so long
as members are elected as they are, The
Bulletin can see no hope for Ministries
representing all parties. The reform will
have to go back far beyond the manner of
appointing Ministers.
Is Protection a Fraud?
Do those protected industries whose busi-
ness it is to produce the articles required
by the primary producer in the prosecution
of his business, and which he miist have to
enable him to continue production—l say,
do they produce those articles in quantity
and quality required? In short, is the so-
called Protection of manufacturers a decep-
tion and a fraud? Is it in its final analysis
merely a protection of the Trades Hall
crowd ? —A. T. D. (Queensland).
Suppose a law were now passed in
Australia that in the control of racehorses
the owners should not be supreme, but that
the trainer and the jockey and the stable-
boy and the assistant stable-boy and a few
others must have an equal say. If, after
this queer medley had debated matters, and
formed committees, and set up policies and
rival policies relating to the training and
riding and racing of Middle Watch, could you
honestlv blame the horse if he failed? It
would be no more his fault than it is the
fault of Protection that, it has not been a
complete success. The same charge is made
against Capitalism—it is alleged to have
failed, whereas the fact is it hasn’t had
the ghost of a chance in the past dozen
years especially.
Communism and Religion
You lately pictured a Communism that is
not irreligious. But is that possible? It
is essential to Communism to regard men
in the mass. The rights and needs of the
individual don’t count. The essence of
religion is the value of the individual and
his right to “be different.” Religion tells
Bill Smith that he counts just because there
is no one else in the world who can be Bill
Smith. Communism and religion are there-
fore necessarily opposed.
Since religion makes men
refuse to be cogs in a
wheel , both it and the
men it gives the nerve to
have to be crushed. —
Caecilian (Vic.).
Granted that under
Communism a citizen is
a cog in the wheels of
the machine. Is not
many a man merely a
eog in some great indus-
trial or commercial
machine? And cannot he
be nevertheless a reli-
gious man? When Wil-
liam Lane led the New
Australians to the Com-
munist experiment m
Paraguay, no attempt
was made to interfere
with the members' reli-
gious practices. On the
contrary, there were
members who declared
they were Communists
because they were reli-
gious. It is true the
New Australia experi-
ment failed. But it was
never suggested that it
failed because religion
was not suppressed. In
Russia the early efforts
to suppress it have been
to a great extent aban-
doned, and complete aban-
donment seems to be only
a matter of time. This
doesn’t, of course, prove
that Communism isn’t
necessarily anti-religions ;
it suggests very strongly,
though, that if it is anti-
religious it is impossible.
The Tariff and the
Unemployed
A. G. Huie has me
bothered. I have been
reading The Bulletin
for years and want to be
a Protectionist, yet there
is the apparent fact that
following the Sculhn-
Forde tariff unemploy-
ment increased. I can t
believe that without the
tariff we should have had
more than 28 p.c. of our
people unemployed; and
it is Quite certain we
should have had cheaper
living. For goodness sake,
tell me what’s what! —
J. F. D. (N.S.W.).
The old Freetrader,
who said that the more
you imported the more
you could export, liadn t
provided for the sort of
difficulty which confront-
ed Scullin and Forde.
Their problem was, not
to make trade movements
balance, but to prevent
default; and default could
only be prevented by
shutting down hard on
imports, and to a great
extent leaving exports to
take care of themselves
since nothing they could
possibly do would pro-
duce an immediate increase in exports.
Incidentally, Britain tried Mr. Huie s I ree-
trade prescription (or as near to it as any
country ever dares go), and has had to throw
it overboard after it had landed the nation
on the very brink of disaster.
Farm Settlements
You advocate the establishment of farm
settlements to absorb the unemployed. Ihe
idea seems to be that these men should pro-
duce eggs, butter, vegetables, etc. But hun-
dreds of farmers now depend on these by-
products and would themselves have to go
on the dole if they lost their market. How
are you going to get over that, difficulty /
G. T. 1,. (Westralia).
Farm settlements are not suggested as
permanent institutions. They would give
men who now have to be kept by the labor
of others a chance of keeping themselves by
their own labor. It is possible that to a
small extent they would produce for them-
selves what others now produce and sell to
them; but the money the latter pay is pro-
vided out of taxes, and if the farmer wasn t
so heavily taxed he wouldn’t have to depend
on by-products. The ideal is to get the
unemployed producing (1), goods for export;
(2) goods to take the place of articles now
imported: (3) articles not now produced
because the people haven’t the money to buy
them. One strong reason why these things
are not produced is that the cost is so
enormously increased by the necessity to
maintain hundreds of thousands who are
burdens on production. The first step neces-
sary, therefore, is to put these men in a
position to maintain themselves ; farm settle-
ments are suggested only as a plan for
doing this pending their absorption in other
jobs.
Exchange and Inflation
I am a member of the Graziers’ Assoc.,
and as such am supposed to be getting my
views expressed by the executive. When in-
flation was on the menu, my views icere
adequately put forth by the heads, in an effort
to down it. But since the executive has
recently had a deputation to the Common-
wealth Bank in an endeavor to keep up the
rate of exchange to the then level, am I
"for” inflation or “against ” it? —F. A. Q.
Just as there is never a boom until it is
over, so there is never inflation until it is
over, In either case you go out then and
clean up the wreck. If a rate of exchange
maintains itself, there is nothing deliberately
inflationary about it. But if active steps
are taken so that a section of the people
shall be paid in gold or sterling while they
themselves pay in a currency deliberately
depreciated, it is inflation of the very worst
character.
Monopolies .
There is much talk and _ more lonting
against Communism and Socialism. I can-
not hear or read a■ word against the twin
evil of Monopoly. Even The Bulletin is
silent. Once the Labor party had opposi-
tion to trusts, combines and monopolies as
a chief plank in the platform. And now
they make monopolies legal. During the last
two or three years several monopoly cos.
have been registered. Monopolies are crush-
ing the very Ufa out, of us. Borne are world-
wide, some are limited to Australia, some
even to a State. What do you suggest ice
should do about them?— Muogee (N.S.W.).
Pity the names of a few of these life-
crushing monopolies were not mentioned.
We don’t hear s,o much of monopolies as we
used to because, so far as Australia is con-
cerned, they were mostly found to be a myth.
And we found out other things, too—especi-
ally that while an amalgamation of interests
might conceivably result in high prices and
exploitation, far oftener it resulted in the
elimination of waste, the reduction of costs
and the lowering of prices. The world in
general and Australia in particular are not
suffering from excessive profits so much as
from waste and overlapping in production
and distribution ; and any attempt to reduce
some of that, even if it looks like establish-
ing a monopoly, ought to be encouraged. In
most cases it won’t be a monopoly ; and if
it is it can be easily controlled —so long as
it is a domestic and not a foreign concern.
Low-wage Jobs
Losing my job I went digging postholes,
and, working hard, earned 9s. a day. From
that time I’ve been an outcast and have
hud a trip to the hospital out of it. It makes
me love the boss class to think that this will
continue till I die. Tlmt’s what happens to
anybody who accepts the low-wage jobs The
Bulletin has been talking about. —Stick
the Boot.
A man can accept 10 bob from another
for doing nothing and is still held in respect
and esteem; but if he says “No, I don’t
want your charity—give us work,” then he’s
an outcast if he does it for less than some-
body else says he ought to get. In this case
the'man got less than somebody else said
“the work entitled him to.” But what did
it entitle him to? Those postholes may
have been worth very little to the owner;
why then should he pay more for digging
them? Whether the other man would accept
the low wage for the job or accept 10 bob
as a charitable gift is for this other man him-
self to say. But if a “class” says it ? s better
to accept charity than to do a job for what
the job is worth to the man who offers it,
then the thinking of that class is all wrong.
And so is the thinking of the man who
blames “the boss class.” and not his own.
THE MAD DOG.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE: “Here’s the muzzle you asked for. But if it’s a mad dog, as you say, why
muzzle it? Why not help to get rid of it?”


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A Christchurch (M.L.) gentleman who
had ideas about bleaching clothes by elec-
tricity lately fixed up a wire for a clothes-
line and connected it with a strong battery.
He was called out after dark by fearful
howls in the garden, and going to the spot
he found the lady who lived next door writh-
ing in agony a-nd vainly trying to let go a
wet tablecloth and a garment which she
had grasped, one in each hand. She hadn’t
meant to steal them, but she had been over-
come by the yearning to find out whether
the other woman’s tablecloth was as fine as
her own, and whether she had real lace on
her nightdress, and she had leant across the
fence to feel these two articles. Then in
some horrible and unexplained manner they
seemed to seize her and drag her bodily over
the palings, and after that she had a vague
idea that she was hanging by the hands and
.someone was beating her with a red-hot
poker. Before the current could be turned
off the articles tore in two and let her down
with a whack on the garden path, and then,
feeling that the situation was too difficult
of explanation, she gathered up her skirts
and ran for it. But next day she apologised
by letter, and peace was nominally restored.
[lO/6/’93.]
The late James McCulloch was the third
party in the oft-told story about Macßain
and his frivolous acquaintance. The frivo-
lous one. coming across McCulloch in Col-
lins-street, Melbourne, observed: “Look here,
Sir James, just now I met Macßain coming-
down the steps of Parliament House, and
said, ‘All hail, Macßain!’ but he just stared
at me and said, ‘lt’s all hail, Macbeth, I’m
thinkin’.’ Now, was there ever such a
man?” McCulloch stared at the would-be
joker, just as Macßain had stared at him,
and replied, “Weel, I’m thinkin’ he was no’
so verry far -twang.” And solemnly the
knight passed, on. He was the typical hard-
shell Scotchman who would like to have all
jokes, save Scotchmen’s jokes, suppressed by
the Legislature, [ll/4/’93.]
We had a curious dream last Sunday
night. We dreamed that the convict hulk
Success had been duly floated into a co., as
per prospectus in the Australian metropoli-
tan press; and had. as proposed, started for
Chicago with a cargo of wool, after being
insured at very little above ordinary cii-r-
-rent rates—all as per advt. in the morning
papers. Then we lost sight of the old craft
and forgot about her. Years rolled on, and
in 1923 we somehow found ourselves in
Chicago. There was a vessel coming in—
an unspeakably ancient, bleached, cracked,
sun-dried and rotted vessel of venerable
build. There were festoons of seaweed hang-
ing from her sides, and oysters and mussels
were clustered on her planks. She had
one broken mast and a shapeless sail made
of bagging. An old, white-bearded man on
crutches stood on the quarter-deck, and a
multitude of withered patriarchs looked with
bleary eyes over the bulwarks. Also, there
were about 20 black women on board and
a number of children. None of them had
anything on except a scrap of old sailcloth
round the middle. An unspeakable reek of
fish hung over the vessel like a cloud, and
almost everybody on board was gnawing a
fish of some kind and the deck was ham-
pered with fishbones and festering heads
and tails. We climbed aboard, and then
it suddenly dawned upon us that the aged
hulk was strangely familiar—it was the
same old Success which sank in Kerosene
Bay, Sydney, in ’92. The captain took
no notice of us and wouldn’t speak—he was
obviously in the last stage of senile decay.
The naked crew smiled drearily out of their
toothless f jaws, and the black women and
the children fled into the forecastle. We
went below, and amid darkness and a fear-
some stench, we found the board of directors,
chained up and evidently out of its mind.
The board had nothing on at all except its
hair, which hung down to its knees; it was
unspeakably dirty and gaunt and cavernous,
and it groaned dismally. The chairman
tried to bite as we passed, and broke his
last remaining tooth in the effort. In a
far corner we found a shareholder who
seemed to have a lucid interval; he was
also naked and encrusted with salt, and he
was gnawing a piece of stale dugong. In
a shrill whisper he furnished some par-
ticulars about the voyage. It had been
unusually protracted, he said, and they had
called in at 16 different ports for repair.
The cargo of wool had all been sold to pay
for repairs. They rounded Cape Hern when
they were 16 years out,, and then the board
of directors went mad and insisted on pay-
ing a dividend every three months. The
captain, kidnapped a number of black women
at Tierra del Fuego in the hope that mar-
riage would calm the . board’s mind, but
instead the directors 'grew so violent that
they had to be chained up in the hold.
They had been there "ver since, and lived
entirely, on fish and rain water. At this
point fearful shrieks. rent the dank atmo-
sphere ; the chairman had broken loose and
scuttled the vessel. We made for the
deck and went overboard accompanied by
the oldest of the black women—a party with
one short leg and a .twisted back—and when
we reached the. shore the-Success had alto-
gether vanished. [4/3./’93.]
Hon. Thomas Lodge de Montmorency
Murray Prior, just deceased, was one of
the notable figures of early Queensland his-
tory. His home was at the very head of
the Logan River, almost under the shadow
of Mount Lindsay, the supposedly inacces-
sible sides of which were scaled by his
eldest son, Tom. Despite his array of names
and his early-century manner, Mr. Murray
Prior was one of those squatters who worked
as hard as their men. and prospered in
consequence—for work in those times did
bring its reward. His family are all fine
specimens of Australians, with plenty of
pluck and brains. Tom, the eldest, went
to the Palmer with horses during the first
A CERTAIN TEST.
“There’s Brown over the road. Peculiar
sort of fellow. Doesn’t seem to know
his own mind about anything.”
“Ah! Doesn’t he, though! Just ask him.
to have a drink!” [31/12/92.]
rush, where he nearly lost the number of
his mess by fever: he returned about the
gauntest six-foot-three of skin and bones
ever seen, and then went squatting out
Bully Creek way. The eldest daughter
has made a name for herself in the world
of letters ns Mrs. Campbell-Praed. Prior
himself was for some time Postmaster-
General of Queensland, and passed through
his political days with a stainless name.
To 11'ior is ascribed the story of how,
when times were hard in the early days,
he was bull-punching for himself and met
another team, by the driver of which he
was familiarly accosted in a hail-fellow-well-
met sort of way. “I am not a bullock-
ttl j er ’ said Pri °r indignantly. “What the
-blades are you then?" demanded the other.
A gentleman squattah, driving mv own
teams.” For a long time after that, bul-
iockies were known up north as “gentle-
men squatters, driving their own teams. '
Aot far from Prior’s station, Maroom. is
i d A vldln £ watershed between N. S. Wales
and Queensland, and on the station, on the
extreme head of the Richmond, on the
IVS.W. side, Brunton Stephens was for a
long time tutor. It was there he wrote
“Convict Once.” fl4/l/’93.1
A MOUNTAIN STATION.
I bought a run a while ago,
wP n countr y rough and ridgy,
'' mi lo wallaroos and wombats grow—
the upper Murrumbidgee.
ahe grass is rather scant, it’s true,
But this a fair exchange is,
1 he sheep can see a lovely view
By climbing up the ranges.
And “She-oak Flat’s” the station’s name;
I’m not surprised at that, sirs—
The oaks were there before I came,
And I supplied the flat, sirs.
A man would wonder how it’s done,
The stock so soon decreases—
They sometimes tumble off the run
And break themselves to pieces.
I’ve tried to make expenses meet,
r But wasted all my labors;
The sheep the dingoes didn’t eat
Were stolen by the neighbors.
They stole my pears—my native pears—
Those thrice-convicted felons,
And ravished from me unawares
My crop of paddymelons
JUST CAUSE FOR HOMICIDE.
(Johnson for once in a blue moon had taken his wife to the
theatre.)
DEAR OLD PAL ( behind, slapping him, on the back, loq., in a
loud voice): “What, ANOTHER girl. I’ll put you away to
the missus.” [G. R. Ashton— 5/11/’92.]
sometimes under sunny skies,
TW M“r™mbidS “to rise
And OTM-flow tte station.
But this was caused (as now I know)
When summer sunshine glowing
Had melted all Kiandra’s snow
And set the river going.
And in the news, perhaps, you read:
“Stock passings. Puckawidgec,
Fat cattle: seven hundred head
Swept down the Murrumbidgee.
Their destination’s quite obscure,
But, somehow, there’s a notion,
Unless the river falls, they re sure
To ranch the Southern Ocean."
So after that I’ll give it best;
No more with Fate I’ll battle.
I’ll let, the river take the rest,
For those were all my cattle.
And with one comprehensive curse
I close my brief narration,
And advertise it in my verse—
For Sale! A Mountain Station.
ri9/12/’9l 1
1/7 1-J
BANJO.
ANOTHER OF MITCHELL’S PLANS
FOR THE FUTURE.
“I’ll get down among the c-ockies along
the Lachlan or some of them rivers,” said
Mitchell, throwing down his swag beneath
a big tree. “A man stands a better show
down there. It’s a mistake to come out
back. I knocked around a good deal among
the farms. Could always get plenty of
tucker, and a job if I wanted it. One cocky
I worked for wanted me to stay with him
for good. Sorry I didn’t. I’d have been
better off now. I was treated more like
one of the family, and there was a couple
of good-looking daughters. One of ’em was
clean gone on me. There’s some grand girls
down that way. I always got on well with
girls because I could play the fiddle and sing
a bit. They’ll be glad to see me when I
get back there agen, I know. I’ll be all
right—no more bother about tucker. I’ll
just let things slide
as soon as I spot the
house. I’ll bet my
boots the kettle will
be boiling, and every-
thing in the house
will be on the table
before I’m there
twenty minutes. And
the girls will be
runnin’ to meet the
old cocky when he
comes ridin’ home at
night, and they’ll let
down the sliprails,
and ask him to guess
‘who’s up at our
place?’ Yes, I’ll find
a job with some old
cocky, with a good-
looking daughter or
two. I’ll get on
ploughin’ if I can;
that’s the sort of
work I like; best
graft about a farm.
“By-and-bye the
cocky’ll have a few
sheep he wants
shore, and one day
he’ll say to me,
‘Jack, if you hear of
a shearer knockin’
round let me know
—l’ve got a few
sheep I want shore.’
“ ‘How many have
yer got?’ I’ll say.
“ ‘Oh, about fif-
teen hundred.’
“ ‘And what d’yer
think of givin’?’
“ ‘Well. about
twenty-five bob a
hundred, but if a
shearer sticks out for
thirty, send him up
to talk with me. I
want to get ’em
shorn as soon as pos-
sible.
t “ ‘lt’s all right,’
I’ll say; ‘you needn’t
bother. I’ll shear
your sheep.’
“ ‘Why,’ he’ll say,
‘can you shear?’
“‘Shear? Of
course I can! I shore before you was born.’
(It won t matter if he’s twice as old as me.)
, i il shear his sheep and make a few
pounds, and he’ll be glad and all the more
eager to keep me on, so’s to always have
someone to shear his sheep. But by-and-bye
J *' S et tlre <i of stopping in the one place
ami want to be on the move, so I’ll tell
hiffl ( l’m going to leave.
‘‘‘Why, what do you want to go for?’
<:*,/??y, sur P ri sed. ‘Ain’t you satisfied’’
" Oh yes, I’m satisfied, but I want a
change.’
ni < i. on ’ t; S°,’ he’ll say; ‘stop on and
we H call it twenty-five bob a week.’
But I 11 tell him I m off—wouldn’t stay
tor a hundred when I’d made up mv mind:
so when he sees he can’t persuade me he’ll
get a hit stiff and say:
“‘Well, but what about that there girl?
Are you goin’ to go away and leave hornlike
that?’
“ ‘Why! What d’yer mean?’ I’ll say
Beave her like what?’ (I won’t pretend to
know what he’s drivin’ at.)
“ ■’ he’ll say, ‘you know very well what
I mean. The question is: Arc you going to
marry the girl or not?’
“I’ll see that things are getting a little
warm and that I’m in a corner, so I’ll say •
. “ ‘Why, I never thought about it. This
is pretty sudden, and out of the common,
ain’t it? I don’t mind marrving the giri
if she’ll have me. Why. I ain’t asked her
yet!’
W ell, look here,’ he’ll say, ‘if agree
to marry the girl—and 1 11 make you marrv
her, any road—l’ll give you that'farm over
there and a couple of hundred t 0 start on.’
“So, I’ll marry her and settle down and
be a cocky meself; and if you ever happen
to be knockin’ round there hard up. you
needn’t go short of tucker a week or two ;
but don’t come knockin’ round the house
when I’m not at home.”
U/7/’93.]
HENRY LAWSON.
ON A DRY PLAIN.
Midday in January, on a far-west plain—
not even a camel-bush to throw shade enough
to. cool a grasshopper. A solitary swagman
without even a dog. The man was grey and
old, and the sweat of weakness oozed from
beneath his hair and trickled down bis face,
while his lips were stuck together with the
grey mucus of thirst. But he was still sen-
sible, and know that the beautiful lakes that
A CLINCHER.
QUEENSLAND LIAR: “Why, you N.S.W. chaps
don’t know what heat is. You want to
go to Queensland to feel heat.”
NEW SOUTH WALES LIAR: “Well, I dunno,
some places down here I’ve seen it 130
in the shade for days and nights at a
stretch.”
QUEENSLAND LIAR: “Hundred and thirty in
the shade! W T hy, up on the station
we’ve had it 150 in the water-bag at
four o’clock in the morning!”
["Hop.”— 24/12/’92.]
quivered and glistened in front of him,
around him, behind him, were utterly unreal,
and that he must keep his eyes due south
and his head level.
If he could only meet someone ! Or if it
were only coach-day! Then he fancied he
heal’d the sound of wheels, but was too much
afraid of the horror of disappointment to
look back —afraid that lie had heard only
the first mocking overture of the thirst jim-
jams
At last, thank God! A horse blew his
bugle beside him ; tied to the horse, in the
usual way, was a buggy with one man on the
seat. • , -
Down went the old wayfarer’s swag, and
for a moment the dank, straggling hair
seemed to shrivel under the awful focus
of heat from the disc above
“flow far to the water,- sir?”
“Eight- miles, my man. Good day”—and,
before he had time to ask for a lift, salva-
tion had whizzed away through the rents of
the quivering mirage like a dream.
Now ugly faces began to leer at him, jeer-
ing voices' to speak to each other about
him Why doesn’t the old fool take off his
boots and run for •it?”. ... “Take-off your
hat, your’boots, your shirt, or you’ll never
make the water.” ’ • ’
He tookroff liis boots arid ran for it. His
trousers were heavy and they must come off.
What a weight his shirt was I And his old.
floppy hat was as lead on his brain! All
off now, and a naked, grey-headed man was
running—such pitiful running—in circles.
While the jeering devils in the air made
audible wagers with each other as to whether
he’d do the laps in even time or break the
record.
The next day is Sunday—Sunday in the
township, and Sunday, in its way, in the
bush. In the township, a small building full
of tidy people—old men, old women, young
men and maidens, listening to precepts of
love and charity. The buggy-occupant of
yesterday—in no hurry now, but in an
ecstasy of peace and restfulness—is among
them.
Presently sweet voices.blend in:—
Rescue the perishing, care for the dying.
Snatch them in pity from sin and the grave.
Away out on the plain tin’ kites and crows
hold their “Sunday service” on something
that was once a man, strong and kindly,
something that might still have been a man.
strong and kindly, but for the want of a lift
across that eight miles of Hell to the water.
[3O/9/93.]
MULGO.
TO MY SHILLING.
Go! insignificant yet potent; disc.
Upon a single word tliy fate I risk.
Seek thou the pocket of sorhe hungry sinner,
And spread for him a good, substantial
dinner.
Or, should grim thirst some torrid gullet
sear.
Assuage its torments with cool draughts of
beer.
[ll/3/93.1


[YOUR DOCTOR'S FIRST QUESTION
DONT NEGLECT
CONSTIPATION
Once you try Figsen you will
know what thousands have al-
ready discovered that FIGSEN
CORRECTS CONSTIPATION.
Figsen is easy to take—it does not
purge or gripe—it does not tend
to promote the “laxative habit.”
Figsen assists the bowels to per-
form their natural function. It is
equally effective, equally safe for
young or old, strong or delicate.
Figsen is a good friend which
should always be with you.
FHKL
Your Chemist
sells and
recommends
©
FIGSEN
FOR CONSTIPATION
Th,s BRITISH
EMPIRE FORD
is the ONLY car
you can really
afford to-day . . .
THIS is not the time for whims
and fancies in car buying—it
is the time for hard-headed
practical business judgment.
From this viewpoint, the Ford is
the obvious choice for Australians
today. For these vital Ford quali-
ties are envied by owners of heavy
cars and light cars alike . . . the
Ford’s big-car comfort, roominess
and speed at half the big car’s
running costs; its slow depreci-
ation and high resale value; its
small purchase price, easy terms
and low-cost service; its fine ap-
pearance ; its unusual strength for
roughest roads; its £3O
worth of extra equip-
ment at no extra price.
In brief, the Ford is neither a
baby car nor a big car, but com-
bines the best qualities of both—
the power and performance of the
heavy car; the low price and
economy of the small.
And the Ford is British to the
backbone—9s% an Empire pro-
duct, of which 78% is Australian
made . . . Ask your Ford Dealer
for Ford economy facts and for a
valuation of your present car.
Drive the Ford for proof of its
performance . . . Prices range
from £2lB to £315 completely
equipped , f. o. b. nearest
Ford Works; Sales Tax
extra.
ďsf
THE BRITISH EMPIRE CAR
95/ BRITISH
sdf
m
AUSTRALIAN
NC 58
LTD
FORD MOTOR
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY.
SHADOW SHOWS.
It will be a pity if people are put off
First National’s “Letters of I ire, at Syd-
ney Plaza, by its asinine title. It is tne
best American talkie, take it tor all in all,
that Sydney has seen. The casting, actiug,
sound and mechanical effects are mas-
terly, and the story has an /Esehyleau inevit-
ability ; you believe practically every word
of it. The circulation of a great paper,
published for the people’s good, lias begun
to drop and the proprietor is perturbed, it
has become too conservative for the pur-
poses of true morality. Someone must be
exposed at once, in the interests ot the
public. Edward G. Robinson, who plays the
editor, doesn’t like his holy mission, lie lias
eaten filth, as - he puts it, for ten years, and
is getting tired of the flavor. However, lie
has his speakeasy expenses to think ot; and,
when it is decided to expose a woman, whose
daughter is to be married in a few days, lie
runs the juicy sensation for all it is worth.
Frances Starr is the woman, IT. B. Warner
is her devoted husband and Marian Marsh is
their daughter. Most directors would have
been tempted to melodramatise the situation
which develops after the storm breaks, but
Mervyn le Roy has refrained. The wife
does her futile best to save the day—appeals
to the proprietor and editor for mercy, and
so on—and the husband puts up a fight, too;
but they only make things worse. A sym-
pathetic caller in clergyman’s clothes, whom
rhey haw confided in and trusted with their
daughter’s photograph, turns out to be a
member of the paper’s investigation staff.
That, so to speak, puts the lid on it. The
wife poisons herself, and when the. husband
finds her body he follows suit. Their agonis-
ing is done with fine restraint, and you
don't see them dying or dead. The only rant-
ing occurs at the end, when the daughter
arrives at the office while the editor is being
congratulated on the jump in circulation by
his gratified master, and yells at each in
turn: “Why did'you kill my mother? Why
did you kill my father?” It so gets on the
editor’s hooch-frayed nerves that he throws
journalistic ethics to the winds, and tells
her why; then he warns the proprietor that
he (the proprietor) will yet suffer the tor-
ments of remorse for their public-spirited
work (thereby showing that after ten long
years he hasn’t got the measure of his smug
old friend), and turns in his job. It is
impossible, in a necessarily short notice, to
even hint at the hundreds of subtle, ingenio.is
and imaginative touches that go to the
building up of this picture. And the acting
is even more remarkable than the produc-
ing. Any one of the small-part players
Purnell Pratt, as the proprietor; Boris Kar-
loff, as the ghoul who gets holds of the
photograph; a little straw-hatted Jew, who
is mostly seen at a telephone—might shine
as a star in an average show. They blend
into the whole here. If this critic had to
pick the best he would choose Warner; bin
someone else might choose Robinson . and
someone else Frances Starr, and either
might be right.
# * *
“Condemned to Death,” the British mys-
tery-thriller at Sydney Mayfair, dispenses
with the usual trimmings of maidenly
shrieks, clutching hands and bodies that fall
out of cupboards. Before retiring from the.
Bench Judge Wallington (Arthur Wontner)
condemns t 0 death Lantern (Bernard Bru-
neel), who says nothing but transfixes
the Judge with eyes like bubbles on stalks.
Lantern is hanged. Three years pass, dur-
ing which, one by one, the witnesses who
gave evidence for the Crown are murdered.
When Knudge (Gordon Harker) and Bant-
ing (Edmund Gwenn), burglars, find that
their leader Lefroy has murdered Sir Ran-
dolph, who prosecuted Lantern, they come to
the conclusion that he is conducting the ven-
detta. Banting is horrified, for his daughter
Kate is in love with Lefroy. Professor
Michel (Griffith Humphreys) is refusing to
let the young detective Wrench (Cyril Ray-
mond), who is searching for the murderer, in-
terview Judge Wallington, when Kate bursts
in to warn everyone that Lefroy, who has
been overtaken by a fit of homididal mad-
ness, is coming. The Professor commands
them all to remain perfectly quiet when
Lefroy enters. The door slowly opens and
in walks Judge Wallington, hideously trans-
formed. He is about to stab Wrench when
the Professor breaks the hypnotic spell cast
over the Judge by the hanged Lantern —but
not before Wallington stabs himself, thus
destroying the last of those who condemned
Lantern to death. A cheerful thing.
“Mischief,” also at the Mayfair, is a
Ben Travers meringue, served up by
British Dominions. Ralph Lynn pre-
vails upon Bingham (James Carew) to
go to Paris on business for him and imposes
on himself the task of looking after Mrs. Bing-
ham (Jeanne Stuart), a flighty thing engaged
in an affair with beautiful Bertie (Ken
Kove). Following them to April Cottage,
Lynn is met by Diana (Winifred Shotter),
who frantically implores him to climb upon
the roof to quench a fire in the chimney.
By the time lie has fallen (1) off the roof
into the water-butt, and (2) in love with
Diana, the fire is out. It transpires that
Diana has bundled Mrs. Bingham and Bertie,
her brother, back to London. Bingham,
whose sister has told him of his wife’s
escapade, returns and thinks Diana is liis
faithless one, and Lynn his prospective co-re.
He pursues them back to town. In the end
the Binghams are reunited and Lynn taxies
off with Diana.
* * *
Ferenc Molnor’s comedy “The Guardsman”
(M.-G.-M.) is entertaining Sydney State
Theatre audiences. The leading roles, played
by Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne, who
starred in the original stage production on
Broadway, are those of a Viennese actor and
actress, married. The husband is jealous. Leav-
ing home he returns shortly made up with
consummate skill as a Russian officer (this
must have been before the days of Lenin).
He makes love to her and she responds so
artfully that he doesn’t know whether her
emotions are genuine or she is merely
playing with him. Later, in his capa-
city as husband, he confronts her and
charges her with carrying on behind his
back. She tells him that she was aware of
his identity all the. time. He accepts her
word, but—well, that “but” is the whole
point of the comedy. The principals handle
their rOles with great aplomb and vivacity,
and Zasu Pitts squeezes every ounce of
humor out of the part of a maid.
“Street Scene” (M.-G.-M.), at Sydney
Capitol, based on Elmer Rice s play, is a
line achievement in the way of naturalness.
David Landau presents the sort ot surly,
straight-laced father one might meet in anj
working-class neighborhood. Estelle layior
as the erring wife is also typical, Sylvia
Sidney makes the daughter, Lose, yet an-
other fine study in universality. Many other
characterisations are equally well recognis-
able, and the camera man has done his work
splendidly. For once in a way the screen
adaptors have evolved an ending as natuial
as and a little more effective than the one
the playwright devised. The film fades out
with a shot depicting a group of kiddies
playing one of those games that are played
all over the world. The voices of the young-
sters diminish in volume as the camera moves
back.
* * H-
Why Australians are considered likely to
be interested in the peculiar game that is
called football in the TJ.S.A. is one of those
things no fellow can understand. In “Play-
ing the Game” (Universal) at Sydney Hay-
market, five-sixths of the action takes place
on “the gridiron,” and two hard-faced col-
legians compete for newspaper publicity. One
is put out of the team, and put in again to
save an important match because there’s a
poor young feller in bed sick and he’ll die
if his side is defeated.


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ulysses . . 14,500 tons, April 23
tEuripides . . 15,000 „ May 3
*Ascanius . . 10,000 ~ June 13
fThemistocles 12,500 ~ Sept. 6
♦First class only. tFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Go., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
DlRECTOits— James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. s
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
blanches m Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank oners the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
r-
v*
Kg:!
6 D
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
I ■
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Bool:let Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B. Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartment?
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ABORIGINALITIES
“.Tu-Ju”: If the cables are correct the
Christian Council of the West African Gold
Coast is taking a chance. It has offered £lO
to any native warlock, wizard, porro man or
magician of any kidney who can transform
himself into a beast, bird or creening thing.
MODERN ARTIST DOES A BIT OF FENCING DOWN AT HIS WEEK-END
CAMP.
the idea being to impress on the ignorant
natives that the “magic” of the professional
practitioners is,as empty as the promise of
a politician. There is always the danger
that the pellcr, as the Cornish folk call him,
may turn the tables on the investigators.
Papua long ago afforded a famous instance,
when Bishop-designate Maclaren challenged
a local warlock to cure an attack of ear-
ache from which he was suffering. After
preliminaries, the magician extracted a small
snake from Maclaren’s ear, as it appeared
to the onlookers. So flabbergasted was the
churchman that he had to admit when asked
by the operator that his earache had van-
ished utterly. There is also the case, de-
scribed by James Cowan in one of his books,
where a Maori tohunga challenged, the great
Bishop Selwyn to a combat in necromancy.
The Bishop declined, but the tohunga, as a
small sample of his powers, so Cowan avers,
showed that he could make a cabbage palm
wither away in a few moments and then
restore it to fresh vitality.
* * * *
“Padriag”: “Whin Oi was young,” re-
marked Sergeant O’Toole, “Oi tuk great
shtoclc in these tongue-twisting sentences as
a test av drunkenness. Rut Oi was cur d.
Oi had wan dinnyhayser av a complication
—‘Repate aftlier me; “the copper kciue, uie
copper coffee-pot, an’ the copper bottle’s
copper stopper-top.” ’ But ’twas too much
av a complication. The magistrate or the
jay pay wud be sure to try an’ say it him-
self an’ get tangled, an’ thin—‘case dis-
missed.’ Nowadays Oi’m prepared to admit,
under cross-examination, that a man may
be sober in some since av the wurrd if he
can lie peaceable on the flure without
holdin’ on.”
❖ * * *
“Te Kaben” : Have any boats of like size
propelled solely by wind-power attained
greater speeds than Gilbert Island racing-
canoes? Averaging from 30ft. to 40ft. in
length, with a beam of from 30in. to 4Sin.
and a depth of about 4ft., these beautifully
modelled craft can sail faster than anything
under canvas that I have met with. It is
asserted that in Tarawa Lagoon a racer tra-
versed a mile in three minutes. At the same
island a seven-fathom canoe with 12 natives
and their luggage aboard sailed 15 miles
(by chart) in one hour and five minutes. As
the weather was squally, she must have been
doing a good 16 knots during the puffs. These
instances I cannot vouch for, but at Butari-
tari some months ago our vessel, steaming up
the lagoon, was met by the native Govern-
ment canoe, which covered seven cables to
our three. And we were doing eight knots,
so she must have been making 18 —pretty
tall sailing!
❖ %
“Ikolal”: Having risen from an excellent
dinner one evening in Papua, my host, the
Government officer, inspired by a glorious full
moon, suggested a walk along the beach. Forth-
with we strolled along, pleasantly garrulous, to
where several canoes lay moored in the shal-
low water. The largest one had a small
glowing fire alight on board, and round this
the natives squatted, smoking, laughing and
chattering, while a weird, sonorous, yet
rhythmic din, which only a paha (native
drum) can produce, came to our ears.
“Who’s the half-caste?” I inquired pointing
to a figure clad in white rami and singlet,
who sat in the circle with the others. My
’BOUT TIME HE DID.
MRS. CHENOWETH : “Feyther, what do ’ee think o’ this — here’s a great-gran’feyther been
and got married.”
MR. GHENCTWETH : “Well, ’most time ’e did, wadn't it, ’Lizabeth Ann?”
host gave a short and bitter laugh. “That's
no half-caste,” he said. ‘Tie’s a white man
gone native, and the worst nuisance.l ever
had to put up with. He’s married, native
fashion, to about three women and lives with
the niggers in a village about a mile from
here. I’ve heard it said lie used to be a
barrister or something. But now all he does
is stir up trouble among the natives, gener-
ally over women, and make himself the
curse of my existence. I know quite a lot
about the gentleman—enough to put him in
gaol if I wanted to. I really ought to have
him deported from the country.” “Then
why don’t you?” I asked. Again my host
laughed shortly and bitterly. “Unfortu-
nately,” he said, “he happens to know quite
a lot about me.”
'fi ❖
“Pick”: Certain aboriginal customs of
olden times seem to have been tribal rather
than universal. The use of string projectiles
in hunting, apparently, was confined to the
N. S. Wales southern tableland, the only
place where these weapons have been found.
They consisted of two rounded grooved stones
tied at the ends of a twisted 4ft. stringy-
bark rope. When wallabies or kangaroos
passed, hidden hunters suddenly whirled
the weighted lines amongst the bounding
feet. Often the legs of the fleeing marsupials
were so hobbled that they were made easy
of capture. On the Avoca, Loddon and
lower Murray, in Vic., the tribes constructed
ovens, remains of which are not elsewhere
found. Of burnt clods they made bricks,
irregular in shape and size; from these,
with much ingenuity, they built circular en-
closures sometimes 3ft. in height and up to
20ft. in circumference. They were used for
roasting in one operation the large amount
of game required for tribal feasts.
* ❖ ❖
“Larrapinta”: I was sitting just inside
my tent at Miriam (Vic.) on Easter Satur-
day, watching vivid violet and green light-
ning flashes, when the wind suddenly fell to
a dead calm, then chopped around from
north to south. Immediately a heavy rumb-
ling sound broke out overhead, like that of
an express train passing over an iron bridge.
I took it for a long peal of thunder at first,
but when it failed to die away I looked out
to see a mighty cloud sweeping down in the
direction of my camp. It had a most peculiar
oily look, fold upon fold, and shone as if
from the reflection of a fire. Below it 1
could just see a long tail, wriggling snake-
like, and I thought to myself, “Here’s where
my tent, honey-house, bees and truck all go
west.” With a loud rumbling and rattling
sound the cloud swept overhead, an almost
continual flicker of lightning showing the
whirling, dancing funnel-cloud below it. A
few violent eddies of air made the scrub
bend as they roared through the branches,
the tent canvas flapped madly for a few
seconds, and it passed growling into the
distance. The tail of the thing hadn't
reached to the ground, and it had spent all
its titanic energy harmlessly in the upper
air. The damage which these tornadoes do
if they do touch earth is confined to the
narrow strip along which the tail of the
funnel-shaped cloud passes, but they cut a
clean path through the heaviest forest trees.
Many years ago, at Coromandel Valley, in
the Adelaide hills, I saw one go roaring
through the heavy scrub, twisting off trees
and whirling them aside as if they had been
weeds. After it had gone there was a clean
track a chain wide and a mile long, with
only jagged stumps standing.
* * -jf *
“Static” : As soon as the Sydney Harbor
Bridge was opened for traffic it was discov-
ered that motorists handing their toll fares
to collectors, and also the collectors that
took the money, received unpleasantly
acute electric shocks. Dr. Bradfield evolved
the theory that this was caused in some way
by the car’s electrical equipment; others
have attributed it to the accumulation by
the car of a static charge due to the friction
of the air on its body as it passed over 1 -
Bridge, which seems to be insulated no.
or less efficiently from the earth by ivs
granite pylons. This theory is supported
by a considerable body of experience, owing
to which motor petrol-tanks are provided
with a chain which drags along the roadway
to conduct the electric charge safely away as
soon as it is generated. A spark anywhere,
save in the motor-cylinders on su<sh a vehicle,
might, of course, produce an explosion.
Another theory of the effect experienced on
the Bridge is that the electricity is generated
in the same way as on a Wimshurst machine
in which scattered bits of metal-foil set on
glass discs, which are revolved in opposite
directions on the same axis, produce a high-
tension current. My own idea is that the
vast mass of steel of the Bridge, being set
approximately on a line south to north, is
polarised by that great magnet the earth,
and is itself a magnet. Steel cars passing
rapidly through its field become charged in
the same way as the armature of a dynamo.
To obviate the shocks a means has now been
provided whereby the body of every car
before it reaches the toll-collector comes in
contact with a wire attached to the metal of
the bridge, thus drawing off the accumulated
current.
A DIGGER’S ODYSSEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I used to dream of starry eyes that o’er a
yashmak shone;
But the General gave instructions and the
regiment moved on.
After weary months at Anzae came the order
to retire,
And a bint in Mudros village set me blinkin’
soul afire.
But the bugles started blowing, and the
transports put to sea,
Leavin' miles of dreary ocean ’twixt Terpsi-
chore and me.
’Er flashing eyes, ’er twinkling feet fair put
me in a trance;
But the Admiral ’ad ’is orders and ’e landed
us in France.
Fair Angelinc of Gerberoy!—no other lips as
sweet.
Yvonne of old Rambouillet, so charming and
petite.
But at last the war is over, and we cross
the heavin’ foam ;
Though the Kaiser gave no orders, Jerry’s
streakin’ fast for ’ome.
At the Wirra-Wirra races she comes flashin’
down the straight,
Riding out a wondrous finish. ’Struth, I
knew I’d met me fate!
The sparkle of ’er vi’let eyes! ’Er lovely
cheeks aglow !. . . .
When the padre gets ’is orders, little Willie
won’t say “no.”
S.A.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
BIG ADVERTISERS use
this great paper.... exclusively
The Brisbane “Courier” is read in every corner of Queensland:
read for its authentic news, its authoritative articles, and for its
sound guidance on all public questions. Big advertisers know this:
they invariably use the Brisbane “Courier” —sometimes ex-
clusively. In 1931 the ‘‘Courier” carried at least 160,000 inches
more advertising than its mornipg rival: it carried almost as
much as two other Brisbane dailies together. Be guided by those
FACTS—largest circulation—widest coverage in city and country.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
QueenslancPs Leading Daily Newspaper—Established 1846.
Representative: ROBERT D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. (B 5007.)
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
(Opp. Railway Station"),
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines)
200 Rooms
200 Baths
r r 3 3
ff f 4! M
<f «! tt i ! 1 *
IfH
itll 1
«
Melbourne's Mast Modern Hotel.
Tariff per day:
Room and meals from 22/6
Room and Breakfast from 12/6
“Planter”: Traders in Papua are becoming
lestive at what they consider the Govern-
ment’s exaggerated concern for the welfare
and interests of the native citizens of Port
Moresby. One trader tells the story of his
own grievance with great bitterness. On
one occasion he was obliged to leave a native
employee in charge of the store. Along
came several lads from the same vil-
lage as said employee, who didn’t have the
heart, to refuse them ahito7'i (credit). Mr.
Trader had deep emotions when he returned
and discovered how much these old pals
owed him. For months he tried every means
AFTER-DEATH OCCUPATIONS.
“Wonder where Edison is now?”
“Purgat’ry, o’ course.”
“What’s he doin’ there?”
“Thinkin' out new coolin’ systems, I s’pose.”
to obtain payment and eventually threatened
to prosecute. His debtors rushed to their old
friend the Native Affairs Department for
help, and received the comforting advice that
they need not pay a penny. And they haven’t!
Mr. Trader now keeps a large piece of
quartz on his counter, and any Lang-
planner from that village who enters without
cash is apt to encounter this mineral sample
in mid-flight—the simplest method yet de-
vised of discouraging inopportune demands
for a “release of credits.”
if * *
“Der Jong”: That curious and —as a
pure-blooded people—fast-vanishing race the
Hottentots have been investigated by
American scientists anxious to ascertain
their origins, which have been much
disputed. The “Tottie,” or, as he calls
himself, the Khoi-Khoin, exists in num-
bers in civilised South Africa, but nowa-
days as a person of very mixed breed. There
are still a few tribal remnants in remote
Namaqualand, and these have been visited
by the American ethnologists. The puzzle of
the Tottie is that he is utterly unlike any
other South African race. Originally a
nomad herdsman, he was in striking contrast
with the agricultural Bantus, who were for
the most part tall and black, whereas he is
short and yellow, with slanting eyes and
high cheek-bones. The resemblance to the
Chinese type is pronounced except for the
woolly hair that grow’S in curious separated
tufts on head and chin. A recent theory
is that the Hottentots are sprung from an
invasion of Chinese adventurers who. are
supposed to have come seeking on the coast
of south-west Africa the gold which is mined
there to-day.
* * * *
“E.S.”: An arresting call in the big
eastern brashes is that of the wompoo, or
purple-breasted pigeon. The early Scottish
settlers on the northern rivers of N.S.W.
nicknamed it Bubblo Mary, from the re-
semblance of its notes to the gobble of the
domestic turkey cock, their name for which
was Bubbly Jock; and the handsome fruit-
eater is still known as Bubblo Mary to its
farthest Queensland haunts. This pigeon
and the cat-bird often duped the newclium,
who looked for strayed turkeys when the
purple-breasts were calling, and was lured
after the “scrub baby” when the peculiar
cry of the cat-bird was heard. Though
never very plentiful, the pigeons muster in
force when the wild figs are ripe, and they
get very fat during the fruiting season.
Another denizen of the same brushes that
has a surprising voice is the little green
pigeon. Its bellowing note has been joined
by dyspeptic poets with the “mopoke’s
mournful call,” the “curlew’s lonely cry”
and the “dingo’s dismal howl.” But to flic
its utterances are not at all lugubrious.
:]; t'fi * -4s.
“Fells” : One of the Sydney dailies has been
making quite a fuss over the ingenious
“invention” of a Moss Vale (N.S.W.) indi-
vidual who has been able to shoot many
foxes by means of a decoy call that ex-
actly imitates the cry of a rabbit in pain,
with the result that the fox comes along to
put the poor creature out of his misery. The
“invention,” made of a flat piece of tin
doubled, has been in use for centuries in
Europe and other countries as a decoy, not
on j y f or f oxes t, u t for other beasts, and
birds in addition, for the notes can be varied
j-q imitate any shrill call. For foxes it has
long been utilised in Cumberland, where the
rough going makes legitimate hunting impos-
sibleyand the same is true of the moun-
tainous parts of Scotland where shooting is
the only wuy of keeping Reynard down.
A SINGLE SENTENCE DID IT.
MISSUS: “Well, you can try ’im, but so far there’s been only one man who’s been able
to keep my husband of} the drink for any time.
VISITING PARSON: “Ah, and was he a clergyman, too?"
MISSUS: “No, he was a Judge.
“Wyara” : Now departing from our eastern
coastal waters after their usual annual visit
are the “oyster-eater fishes” (Trachinotus
anak). These fishes, as their name implies,
have a great liking for oysters, and annu-
ally they visit our eastern coast from the
open sea, arriving towards the end of
October and remaining inshoß? for about five
months. Of an average length of four feet,
they generally travel together in swarms of
a hundred or so, and raid the oyster-beds
at every high tide. From the stomach of a
moderately-sized fish—three feet—l have
seen taken the crushed remains of what must
liave been fully four dozen or more oysters;
so it is pretty easy to judge what damage
they do annually to the oyster industry. The
fish is toothless, but in its gullet are four
enormously powerful movable plates (two
above and two below), between which the
stoutest shell is crushed with ease.
* * * *
“Laloki” : The Kuku-kukus were the cause
of many unpleasant alarms to the party of
Europeans who for the last year have been
prospecting the headwaters of the laven
River in Western Papua. The white men
never slept, ate, worked or pertormed then
toilet without a revolver close to band.
When contact could be established, safety-
razor blades were found to be the best
“trade,” hut at first six wax matches would
buy 201 b. of native food for carriers. These,
however, the Kuku-kukus soon eschewed, due
to the fact that they would immediately
strike the matches one.after another, to the
immense delight of their relations, and then
have nothing left to shWw for the food
they had sold. When the used matches failed
to ignite a second time they regarded it as
a callous swindle and demanded the return of
the food, and this being refused, an ugly situa-
tion was barely averted. Culturally the Kuku-
kukus are still in the Stone Age. Tools and
implements are all made of stone, and the
clearing of a few acres of timber is to them
a very extensive work, entailing months of
arduous toil. It takes them a week to fell
one tree, 2ft. in diameter, so that when they
first saw a steel axe in use, one man com-
pleting in a day what would take them a
month to perform, they were overcome with
astonishment. But later on their surprise
could not be compared with that of the
Europeans when two mysterious Kuku-kuku
implements wore found. A steel axehead,
presumahly stolen, had been cut through and
the two halves thus procured were fastened
with lawyer vine to handles formed like the
figurc 7.' The result was two adze-shaped
implements, and these, with other tools
which were found, made from shovels cut in
pieces, greatly intrigued the Europeans, who
wondered how these primitive people had
contrived to cut steel. It was concluded
that the steel had been sawn or rather worn
through with incredible patience by means of
a length of lawyer vine and sand, a conjee-
ture which, if correct, will make the ant, which
has so long served as a model ot industry.
appear as a futile dodderer beside the Kukn-
kukus. * *
*
“Pick”: About a blue-gum growing by
o ur camp a daily evening performance is
staged by a pair of peewees and our cat.
it began as a deadly feud. When the magpie-
larks nested in the tree they resented the
mouser’s frequent intrusions—lie used to
enjoy a sunbath among the branches. With
snapping beaks the birds made vicious on-
slaughts to drive out the trespasser. Puss
fought back savagely. Long ago the young
birds forsook the parental home, and the
gyrations of the one-time foes now continue
j n playfulness. When the birds return from
foraging, puss attracts them by rolling on the
grass, and a game begins that lasts in amia-
bility until the dusk.
* * * *
g L .». Norman Tindale, ethnologist at
the g A Museum) has proved that Truga-
nini wag not the i ast 0 f the Tasmanian
na H V es d j e ; the distinction belongs to one
of three women wno were taken to Kangaroo
Island by the early-day sealers, and who
wag sti]l a n Ve i n 1886. This fact might
j iave been established nearly 40 years ago if
it ha d not been for the rudeness of an
ethnologist. My father, the late Arthur
Lindsay, was invited to meet this big-wig, a
v i sitor to the colony, about 1890. My father
sa j d t 0 him, “Here is something worth in-
vestigating. The last of the Tasmanian
aborigines died much later than is gener-
auy supposed. I can vouch for the fact that
a t 'least one, and possibly two, women were
s till alive on Kangaroo Island only a couple
0 f ye ars ago”- The visitor interrupted
with “Impossible! Truganini was the last
survivor, and she died in ’76.” My father
bad another try. “I am chairman of the
Restitute Board here,” he said, “and I assure
you that my department was maintaining
three women on the island until quite re-
cently who were described as aborigines of
Tasmania. And they had that negroid
appearance tvnical of the Tasmanians”
The visitor again interrupted with a snort
of “Rubbish!” and turned his back; my
father thereupon departed in a towering rage
and decided to let the matter rip. Mr. Tin-
dale would very much like to hear from any-
one who lived on or visited Kangaroo Island
between ISBO and 1890 and can give him any
further information about the three Tas-
manian lubras who lived there; they were
called respectively “Betty.” “Bumblefooi”
and “Old Suke.”
THE CURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A bloke may think he knows a lot,” quoth
Ted, “an’ yet he’ll always find
That every day he gets a chance to further
cultivate his mind.
I thought that I was pretty wise an up to
all the bushland ways,
For I was born and bred among these ills ;
I’ve lived ’ere all me days.
An’ so, a week or two ago, when that black
mare o’ mine took bad,
I set to work to bring ’er round with all
the knowledge that I ’ad.
A reel good ’andy moke she was, that prad
o' mine, with all ’er faults,
So all me favorite cures I tried, from aconite
to Epsom salts.
"But all in vain, an’ I’d begun to wonder
where I’d dig ’er grave,
Till as a last resort I sends a message to
me neighbor Dave,
A bloke who’ll sit the roughest ’orse—’e
knows the game from A to Z;
But when he sees the way she is, he looks
at me an’ shakes ’is ’ead.
‘Your mare is aivful crook,’ he ses; ‘she’s
sinkin’ fast, but listen ’ere,
There’s just one thing may save ’er life, an’
that’s a quart or two of beer.’
To fill a flamin’ ’orse with beer! At first
I reckoned it a joke,
But he persuaded me at last, he reelly meant
it for the moke.
“An’ did it fix ’er up? you ask. Well, this
is ’ow it came about:
I got the medicine all right, the mailman
brought a gallon out;
I drew the cork an’ sniffed at it; then lugged
it over to the nag;
But, Lord, that day was boilin’ ’ot, a hundred
in the water-bag.
So when the ale came bubblin’ out I sampled
just the smallest taste,
Then starts to give the mare a drink, but,
’strutk, it seemed a sinful waste.
The day was ’ot, as I’ve remarked, an’ now at
’ome I’m in disgrace.
But, as I tells the wife, maybe the mare was
done in any case.”
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


After all theres only one‘Australia*
' .
r~——zrr
jr^^OSGI
o
m
jrr
Sydney’s Centre
THE NEW DECORATIONS
The Winter Garden, the Dining-room, the Ballroom Lounge—
these have all been entirely remodelled and redecorated in the
modern manner. The whole forms a glamorous and enchanting
setting that is without an equal in Australia.
REDUCED TARIFF—"ROOM ONLY" RATES.
Single Room from 10/6 per day
Double Room. . . . . . from 20/- per day
WRITE FOR RATE CARD.
Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
sdf
The Hotel of the
C omm'onwealth,
Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
“Camera wants £16,000 to come to Sydney.”-
It’s a lot of money, but since Lang took
over a good many people won’t cpme here for
anything.
* *
NEW RULE.
The Golden Rule in pre-Lang days
Was “Do as you’d be done to.”
But he has coined, a sterner phrase —•
Viz., “Do the mugs who dun you!”
it X
At the present rate. Judge Swindell will
soon be a millionhare.
. “Mr. Lang may go to England to discuss N.S.W.’s
financial situation.”
It’s doubtful if they’ll even. lend an ear
to him.
* *
“I first became suspicious when my wife gave
co-respondent a pair of my old trousers.”
— Melb. divorce petitioner.
It’s known amongst amorists as getting a
leg in. '
* *
They’ve just had a Red Letter Week at
Mascot. For seven whole days no world-
flier, male or female, has arrived and been
given a hearty welcome by Captain Geof-
frey Hughes and a representative committee
of the Aero Club.
Further proof that history more or less
repeats itself: The ban on “The Wearin’ of
the Green” havingi been lifted in . Dublin,
Superintendent Mackay has banned the
wearing of the brown in Sydney.
* *
GAFFS, CONTERTOMS AND FOPARS.
“One dear old lady, afraid that she would be left
out of the introductions, plucked at the sleeve of
the Governor'General, and when' he swung round
said, ‘Excuse me, I’m Mrs. So-and-so. ’Ow d’you
do? This is my friend —go on, bow.’ To which
the friend replied with a bob and a smirk. Ye
gods!” —“Sunday Sun” on “Garden Party Gaffs.”
Our Government House, set. is undoubt-
edly becoming less patrician in its habits,
yet many will recall equally
shaming gaffs by society load-
ers of the past. Mrs. Willie
Mumble —one of the Double
Bay Mumbles; she was a
Woggle, of Blithero Downs,
and all that lot drink—was
being presented to an Edward-
ian vice-reine who happened
to be a Rechabite. “Mrs.
Mum b 1 e,” quavered the
A.D.C., all too conscious, poor-
lad. of his companion’s condi-
tion. “Pleased ter meet yer,
old dear,” hiccuped Winnie,
“and I’d just like ter shay
that someone’s bin and pinched
the metho. out of my bag in
the cloak-room, hie !” Gosh !
And who of the Older Set
will readily forget the contor-
tion, amounting virtually to a
fopar, perpetrated by that
staunch Empire and King’s
Man Reggie Bludsome, who,
by assiduously avoiding the
danger-zones in all our Em-
pire wars, succeeded in fight-
ing his way, scatliless, to a
Long Service decoration and
the rank of lieut.-general?
Noticing an old man who re-
sembled a Socialist wearing
his hat during the playing of
what sounded like the National
Anthem, the Lieut.-General
knocked the garment off with
a bold cry of “Cur and Dis-
loyalist !” It transpired that
the tune was “The Blue
Danube,” and the assaulted
ancient the G.-G.’s uncle,
Admiral Thruster, V.C.
Lawks-a-mussy! j
“Fiery resentment has been aroused among Gun-
bower tobacco-growers by Mr. Guliett’s price-fixing
arrangement.”
Where there is smoke there is fire.
¥ *
“Kill those germs—twice a day.”
— tooth-paste advt.
That treatment ought to settle them, unless
they are exceptionally long in the tooth.
* *
A SIMPLE ONE.
“Electric shocks received by toll-collectors and
motorists crossing the bridge are puzzling experts.”
“Bring me,” said Forelock Groans, “the
‘Daily Blithergraph’ describing the opening
of the Bridge.”
Shotson obliged.
“I thought so,” said Groans. “See here:
‘The Bridge—positively the greatest magnet
Sydney has known. For weeks a steady cur-
rent of visitors has been flowing Sydney-
wards.’ Aaid again: ‘A battery of cameras
THE VANISHING POINT.
“The doctor told me to-day I’d have to cut down my diet. He
says I probably eat more than I think. ”
“Oh, but, my dear, he surely can’t expect you to starve to death.”
was in position, and the atmosphere was
electrical when, like lightning, De Groot
charged the ribbon. The shocked audience
was transformed’ There you are.
Clearly De Groot is the culprit.”
“But,” objected Shotson, “if he charged
the Bridge, 1 why isn't he still shocking
people?”
“Don’t yon remember, ass, that the Lunacy
Court discharged him?” , .
“Watts that got to do with it? ’ asked the
perplexed Shotson.^
“A baker on a Japanese ship has made a model
of the Sydney Harbor bridge in sugar. ”■— “Herald,”
There’s a lot of sugar in the original, too.
“A French Court has ruled that a husband may
open his wife’s letters.”
It acts as a check on a giddy one’s co-
respondents.
SLOW GOING.
“I’ve seen her out with the same man three days
running.”
“Yes, poor girl — WHAT a monotonous existence!”
An amateur statistician declares that if
all the cars in Victoria were placed end to
end it would be the week-end on the Morn-
ington-road.
* *
“The artist described the methods of the Art
Show committee as murder.”
No doubt, the word was justified.
When judges fail to flatter
An. artist’s pictures or his pride,
It is a hanging matter.
AUCTION BRIDGE.
“How much am I offered for this mag-nif-
icent structure? Built only 25 years ago at
a cost of ten million pounds, and as good as
new.
“Now! Will someone give me a start?
What ? A fiver! Ha, ha, you gave me a
‘start’ all right, sir. I thought for the
moment you were serious.
“You are serious! It’s incredible. I know
the depreciation on used bridges is enormous;
but five pounds! Preposterous! This
bridge in its time
was the largest
Single Arch Four
Track, Million Rivet
bridge in the world.
Built by a genera-
tion which couldn’t
see further than its
bridge the great
advance in aviation
was not contem-
plated at the time—
this lot is now, like
the State railways,
which will follow it
under the hammer,
more or less unpro-
fitable. But a fiver!
What’s that? Seven-
ten I’m bid.
“Any advance on
seven-ten?
“No, sir, we won’t
take half-crowns!
“For the first
time, the second
time going at
seven-ten. This beau-
tiful edifice —; For
the third time.
Gone !
“What name, sir?
“Wang? Oh! Lang!
“Yes, Mr. Lang. Would you see that the
debris is removed before the week-end?
“Bob. see the old gentleman gets his bridge.
“Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.’’
WHEN THOUGHTS FAIL.
“Really what the Earl of Jersey must have
thought of all those pushing and staring people at
the Victoria League reception in the Hotel Australia.
.. . .They simply stood and stared, having almost
to be pushed away. . . .It just doesn’t bear thinking
about.’’ —“Sunday Sun.”
I’m a patriotic Aussie —
Leastways that’s the way I feel
When movin’ in Society
As is what 1 call genteel.
But when ladies take to starin’
At a nobleman and glarin’,
And when gents, shove roughly parst ycr
With “ ’Ere, let me see ’im, blarst ycr!” —
Well, I arst yen
Fancy what the Earl will tell ’em
When ’e gets back to is ’All,
With its butlers and its footmen,
And the peerage starts to call. ■
He’ll no doubt begin complainin’
To their lordships and explainin’
What our Smart Set’s like to meet. It
Turns me cold. I know they’ll cat it —
Can ycr beat it!
SO INTERESTING!
MAY: “I was talking to Jim for a couple of hours yesterday.”
FAY: “Were you? What was he talking about?”
MAY : “He didn’t say.”
Just suppose our Gracious Sowings
Get, to ’ear of the affair!
Think of Royal George’s sorrer,
Think of Mary’s black despair
When they ’ear their subjects lovin’
Took to starin’ and to shovin’
Just because an earl said rashly
That ’e’d meet the creatures! Dash me! —
Ain’t it, gasiily!
D.
ITALIAN OPERA TAKES A HINT
FROM THE TALKIES.
Can It Be Love?
IS PASSION ENOUGH?
SEE this super-production of
“FAUST”
(Words by Jack Goethe, Incidental music by
Charlie Gounod, the Melody King) and learn
for yourself.
FEATURING:—
PIETRO (“Buddy”) BROCCOLI,
Milan’s Boy Friend,
AND
The Neapolitan “It” Girl,
MARIA CASCARA.
Music’s Answer to Clara Bow.
Look out for the Song Hits, including “Sol-
diers’ Chorus” (rendered by a mighty en-
semble of 8 male voices) and “Jewel Song,”
which all you parlor soprani will be trilling
soon. It’s admitted by the cognoscenti to
be quite the equal for power and passion of
"Blah, Blah, Blah” in “Delicious.”
SEE old Doc. FAUSTUS, millionaire, at
work in the studio of his luxurious Fifth-
avenue apartment.
See him RAISE THE DEVIL.
And then watch him stopping out as a
fashionable young clubman with winsome
little Marguerite, the janitor’s daughter.
LA BOIIEME!
This one, from the deservedly popular
PUCCINI LOT, has already woven its fan-
tastic spell over Sydney’s millions.
For the HEART-SEARING ROMANCE
of MIMI, the 14-stone consumptive, is the
romance of us all.
Will the starving Bohemians BEAT
DEATH TO IT?
Will the slow-falling, pitiless snow enwrap
them, weakened as they are by their bitter
privations, or will they bellow and yelp their
way to a SQUARE MEAL?
The answer is revealed at The Paralysis,
Sydney’s Theatre Beautiful, where the
Patron’s comfort is the Management’s First
.Consideration.
SEE and HEAR
CO LOSS A DELLA ROTUNDA, the Dream
Heavyweight. Stages shake beneath her
majestic tread —Beds
collapse when she
lies on them—Win-
dows crack when she
hits a top note.
It sure is ONE
LONG THRILL
when Colossa’s on
deck.
Co-starring with
the Rotunda is
DAMIFINO OR It I
BILL!, who plays
Rodolfo. Opera-fans
will be interested to
know that Signor
Orribilli really was a
Bohemian, who fre-
quently had no
money whatsoever,
bilked his creditors
right and left, and
got tight when liquor
was available for the
purpose. In seeing
this great star, at
the Theatre Beauti-
ful, contributors ;o
his fan mail will
therefore have the
poignant pleasure of
knowing that he has
been thru it all him-
self.
Damifino has been
divorced SEVEN
TIMES up to the
present—-twice from
the Rotunda, whom
he proposes to remarry when their engage-
ments permit. They have fallen passion-
ately in love since the beginning of the pre-
sent season, and are earning £5OOO a week
each.
10-2-4.
OUR LANGUAGE.
“Defendant: ‘I wasn’t in the place; I just happened
to run into the police Anthony Hordern’
“S.M. {sharply): ‘What’s that?’
“Police Prosecutor: ‘He means “police cordon,”
your Worship.’ ” —netting charge report.
Amongst the Prouds of happy Coles
With Mark Foy on their jowls,
You might have seen him gaily Snow,
Cot up to raise McDowells.
But as he ogled, as they passed,
Some Farmers most superb, he
Fell down. He broke some David Jones
And took the Nock and Kirby.
P.


“ There’s life ill the
mellowness of
McCallum’s....
ask for it!
(TfCctUum’s
(Uhisl^y
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide. LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
BARTLAMS LTD., Townsville. NORTHERN AUSTRALIAN BREWERIES, LTD., Cairns.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart. === ___,
AN ISSUE OF HISTORIC INTEREST
msupp L
ov
Published on March 12, 1932.
This story of nine decades of Tasmanian history consists of 56 pages,
and is a record issue of a daily newspaper in Tasmania. On this date
“The Examiner” had served Launceston and Northern Tasmania with its
daily news and advertisements for 90 years. It is still the Home Paper
of Launceston and the North. Advertising in The Examiner is
supported by the prestige and goodwill of 90 years’ service.
Full information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from—
W. R. ROLPH & SONS
Pty. “Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson-street,
Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN,
National Bank Building,
271 Collins-street,
Melbourne.
W. G. DOUGAN,
Kyle House,
31 Macquarie Place,
Sydney.
o o o
r ARMERS
P
& n Rural.Topics.Dairying.
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
Horticulture. Veterinary
1.. Notes Etc All in „
■THE AUSTRALASIAN
■ ON SALE ALL STATES €>-
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everythin!) a woman needs to know.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. .. .. .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. ~ .. .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. ~ .. .. .. .. .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 7! £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
News Reel
* T HE EXIDE
b ATTEKY
'M,
fa
M in
ms
toe/'
fn J J rici
o/l
e.
9 l J
htuiiUHHi'.
6 Volts
13 Plates • *S>I
Also J 6 VOLTS 15 PLATES
Obtainable 112 VOLTS 9 PLATES
Prices as at Capital Cities
he Quick Starting
♦
99
When it’s an You START
STATE DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane—Exide Battery Service (Q.).
Ltd. ; Sydney—Exide Battery Service (Gibson, Battle and Co.,
Ltd.); Melbourne—A. P. Sutherland; Adelaide —Unbehaun and
Johnstone, Ltd.; Perth —M. J. Bateman, Ltd.; Hobart —Medhurst
and Sons Pty„ Ltd.
AUSTRALIAN ART EXHIBITION
A permanent show of Australian Art and Artcraft in the
Macleod Gallery, Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street. Sydney.
The following pictures have been sold since the opening
of the Exhibition on March 22:
“The Jetty” Robert Johnson
“The Egyptian Singer’’ .... Norman Lindsay
“An Interior” L. Bernard Hall
“Bobbin Head Boat Shed J. J. Hilder
“Petunias” Hilda Brewer
“The Fiddle Doctor L. Hopkins
“I Thought I Had a Stamp” .. L. Hopkins
“The Cavalier” Norman Lindsay
“Middle Harbor”
“Cottage, Hartley”
“Nasturtiums” ..
“Omeo”
“Geraniums” ....
“The Bathers” ...
“Aboriginal Head”
“Carnival” ......
.. Olive Birkenhead
S. Ure Smith
.. It. W. Phillips
.. Robert Johnson
. .. . R. IV. Phillips
Mrs. Florence Blake
B. E. Minns
Mrs. Florence Blake
The admission is Free; art-lovers are cordially invited to
view this most representative collection of over 300 works.


HANDY HINTS for the FARM
How Many Subjects Does This
Shilling Book Cover"?
Here is the Index of subjects under the letter S:
sdf
Sheep (continued)
“off the board” ..
pecked
teeth
among wheat
Sheepskins ...
to dye
and rats
Show, preparing for . .
Silage ..
pits
for cows ..
Silos
trench
Skim milk, food value
Skins, rabbit ..
Sledge for hay
Slugs
Smokehouse, bacon ..
Snakebite
Snakoskin, to cure
Soap, sand
toilet
without caustic . .
yellow
Soil renovation
sour
Soldering, paste flux . .
Sore shoulders, horse
54
45
51
5
54
24
25
21
6
20
4:;
20
20
43
22
18
78
60
90
24
84
84
84
84
4
12
17
32
Sore eyes, clogs . . .. 61,
Sore mouths, lambs
Sow, brood
Sparrow trap
Spaghetti, to make
Spiced beef .. . . • •
Spider, red-back .. ■ • TO,
Splint, horse
Split hoof
Sprays, spreaders
Stable, first aid
Stinkwort
Strangles
Strawberries . .
Stumps, to pull out . .
Strychnine poison, dogs
humans
Sub. clover
as binder ..
Sucker-lambs, marketing
Suckering
Sudan grass ..
Sunstroke
Super, in dry years
in Malice
Super, bags, to clean
Sweet potato ..
Swingle-bars
79
40
59
77
82
SO
92
32
32
74
36
77
32
70
88
61
90
10
10
52
08
10
92
3
3
24
72
89
Every effort has been used to make the book of the greatest practical value on every kind of farm.
The experienced farmer will know hundreds of the things in it. It is the few he doesn t know or has
forgotten that will make it worth pounds to him.
Price, 1/-; by post, 1/2. From the head office of “The Bulletin,” 252 George Street, Sydney; or from
any branch office: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; James Place,
Adelaide; 33 Barrack Street, Perth; 14 Panama Street, Wellington (N.Z.).
Dragging-down Pain
and
BACKACHE
A Sore, Tried and
Trusted Remedy
Backache is seldom, if ever, just backache.
The dull aching, the sharp stabbing twinges of
pain, the down-dragging, head-aching, nerve-
depressing misery has a deep-seated, dangerous
cause—weak or diseased kidneys.
Always ailing, pain-ridden men and women,
you must face the facts. Men—in these
anxious times you cannot afford to start and
carry through the day crippled with pain,
showing in every movement, in your face, your
very eyes, signs of age-giving, wearing-out
kidney trouble. Women—you cannot wilfully
neglect or tinker about with your health until
breakdown comes in sight.
When we firmly state that De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills will end the suffering you now endure and bring
back days of happiness, there are thousands of wives and mothers,
nurses, clergymen, chemists, and a host of men and women in all
walks of life glad to tell you how De Witt’s Pills ended their
“untold agonies,” “maddeningtorture,” “crippling pain”—in some
cases after years of suffering.
Mrs. A. Weightman, 3 Bridge Street, Granville, N.S.W., writes “It is with
the greatest gratitude I write to tell you about the wonderful benefit I have
derived from your pills. I was a great sufferer for eight months from
kidney and bladder trouble, and my back was very bad. I could scarcely
walk any distance. I was hardly ever out of my room, and I was often
confined to my bed for weeks at a time. I suffered torturing pain day and
night. I was nearly at death's door , but since using De Witt’s Pills I feel
like a new woman. My backache has completely gone, and I am able to
feel that life is worth living now. I cannot speak too highly of your
wonderful pills, and will never be without a bottle in the house."
2!Sa
Gy
Mi
■
w
*r>:-V
an
"
w
I
in
■
&■:
V* ;
sss
Worn-out, iU, life a misery one day, the next—free from pain,
able to enjoy work and pleasure—this is the experience of thou-
sands who have taken De Witt’s Pills for Backache, Rheumatism,
Swollen Joints and other painful complaints caused by Kidney
Trouble. Why wait a day longer ? Get a bottle of this 40-year-old
remedy from your chemist to-day and enjoy good health again.
De Witt’s Pills are recommended by one-time sufferers every-
where, and used the world over. You will see and know they
are doing you good within twenty-four
hours. There is no other medicine which
gives this safe, quick and certain benefit.
There are cheap imitations. You will
wisely ask for the genuine De Witt’s
Pills. Sold by all chemists in two
sizes, 3/6, or larger, more economical
size, 6/6. Never sold loose.
De Witts
Kidney
and
Bladder
sdf
m
WA
m


The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local.
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance.
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414,
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
Victoria: THE WESTINUtiUUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO.. LTD., Adelaide.
Posted
FREE
Established
over 82
Years.
m
is#
fa
Our 1932-3
Publication.
The Finest
SEED AND PLANT
CATALOGUE
in Australasia.
Everything for the Farm,
Garden, and Orchard.
SOMNER
PTY.
LTD.
Seed Merchants and Nurserymen
21-23 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE. C.l
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
WILL WHEAT PRICES RISE?
The Imperial Economic Committee dis-
cusses this question in a general survey of
the world’s wheat situation in 1931, and
concludes with the observation that hope
for better prices must rest at least as
much on a general recovery from the depres-
sion as on any restriction of production.”
It nevertheless sees some signs encouraging
to growers.
itor one thing, the world demand for
wheat is increasing in consequence of the
growth of population. Consumption per
head is increasing in Russia, the Orient
and tropical countries—in those countries
not only absolutely, because of increased
population, but also per head. There are
more people, and each person is eating
more wheat. Against that the American
who, 30 years ago, used to eat 5.4 bushels
now eats only 4.2 bushels; still, there, has
not been any great drop since the war either
in the U.S.A. or elsewhere. And an ener-
getic campaign has been started in the
U.S.A. to feed livestock with cheap wheat,
and “this movement may assume large pro-
portions.”
Then “the result of quota legislation has
been to raise prices” in the country resort-
ing to it “above the world prices in a free
market,” such as has hitherto obtained in
the United Kingdom. “Quota- legislation
exists in Germany, France, Italy, Holland,
Sweden, Czechoslovakia, Greece and Latvia;
the French quota for domestic wheat is 97 p.c.
In France and Germany there was a sharp
upward rise of prices in 1930 and 1931, and
prices for wheat in France were nearly
double the prices in England.” The British
Government is now 7 committed to the quota
system, and (although the committee does
not say so) Australian in common with
other Dominion growers may look forward
with hope to the outcome of the conference
at Ottawa. TT _ A _ , , _
For the rest, the U.S.A. Federal Farm
Board held a 450-million-bushel surplus in
July, 1931. This it kept off the market in
the hope of helping the price ‘and the
mere existence of this stock had a depressing
effect.” But the surplus is being reduced by
free gifts of wheat and flour to the unem-
ployed, who, according to a recent calculation
numbered eight millions. And the 1930-31
North American harvest shows a reduction of
79 million bushels compared with the previous
year. “Apart from the uncertainty introduced
by Russia this smaller crop would lead to an
improvement in price. Uncertainty as to
Russia contributes greatly to instability of
Pr There are clear signs that, the ex-
portable surplus from Russia m smaller
Zt,n smSr, ?s fn The Xle
insufficient to cover the requirements of con-
sumption. The European demand is likely
to be larger because of puoi iye ci P •
extent like IIKA bnshels.
And recent cablegrams suggest that the
Russian crop outlook is much worse than
when the committee’s report was published.
u>t?OTiTTP' r rTO'\r OORT'S ABROAD
PRODUCT-lON COSIS ADitUAD.
An official publication issued by the Can-
adian Bureau of Agriculture, and quoted
by T. H. Bath in Westralia s Primary Pro-
ducer,” gives estimates of the cost of produc-
ing wheat in that Dominion, in the 1939
season. Expenses incurred in connection
with a 10-bushel yield averaged ss. 31 d. a
bushel; on a 15-bushel yield, 3s. Sd.; 20-
bushel yield, 2s. 10Jd.; 25-bushel yield, 2s.
sd. Farm wages were £8 6s. Sd. per month,
and Is. 51d. an hour during harvesting.
Horse-labor is reckoned at 3d. per hour, the
working day at 10 hours. Rent is put down
at 10s. per acre; interest, depreciation, seed,
tillage operations and two-thirds’ share of
the cost of summer fallow bring the total
fixed charged up to 48s. Id. per acre.
Mr. Bath adds: “Some time ago I pub-
lished an official report of the Agricultural
Bureau of Argentina, in which the average
cost of wheat-production in the latter eoun-
try for 1930 was found to be 2s. 6?jd. per
bushel, a reduction of 20 per cent, from
that of previous years. In the Malmesbury
district of South Africa, the cost of growing
a bushel of wheat in 1929-30, including in-
terest and deducting value of grazing, was
estimated at ss. 6d. per bushel, but the profit
per bushel averaged Is. 3d. as a result of
the Government fixed price.”
In Westralia, as stated by “Dandarra-
gan” (B. 23/3/’32), a company which last
season stripped 70,890 bushels, averaging
18.08 to the acre estimated its costs at just
under 2s. Id. a buslio .
rniniNif WHIfAT POMPUTITIONS
THESE W HEA L CUMI L.LIT •
'Valeria ; It seems to me that in times
when every penny has to be carefully
watched the judging of crops, cereals especi-
ally, should be as much on an economic as
a production basis. Many farmers compet-
ing for the wheat trials devote special atten-
tion to the selected areas, going in for moie
cultural workings and heavier applications
of seed and super, to obtain a higher yield,
With wheat at less than 2s. per bushel on
the farm these extras are a doubtful econo-
mic proposition.
The farmer who gives lus land the mini-
mum of cultivation and uses the customary
amounts of seed and super, may not get the
heavier yield, but liis actual cash profit per
acre is higher. Points are awarded for true-
neSs of type, evenness and freedom from
disease. It might, be worth while awarding
s ome for economy in relation to the apparent
yield.
„ TTT . rnD
DOUBTS CONCERNING GLUCLUB.
“Wescocky” : A controversy is raging in
w es tralia over the milling qualities of the
Qj uc lub variety. Recently a shipment of
ver light and shrivelled wheat left Fre-
manGe for Europe; this was immediately
declared to be Gluclub, and the Chamber of
Commerce, perturbed at the effect such ship-
ments might have on Westralian wheat
pr j C es decided on 4d. dockage on every
bushel of Gluclub wheat delivered at West-
rajian flour mills.
Millers’ opinions differ; while many regard
Gluclub unfavorably, others say they get
tbe ir hardest wheats from districts where
Gluclub is practically the only variety grown,
ome months ago Director-of-Agriculture
Sutton stated Gluclub’s milling qualities as
onl two po j n t s below those of Nabawa.
Though not so disease-resistant as Nabawa,
Gluclub a mid-season variety, compares
f avor abiy in resistibility with all other high
and on a State-wide average sur-
basses their yields; this fact explains its
po p U larity. Should’ the dockage of 4d. per
bughe] be enac ted this year it will prove a
ser j ous matter for hundreds of growers who
b this varietv for seed.
‘ p
BULK-HANDLING FOR SOUTH AUS.
t i: ” . “Xamoev” (B 23/3/’32)
caut ion in regard to the introduction
n Xndling into S- Aus. Good advice
up to a point but it
obgtruct progre ss and deprive farmers of a
= Sf “/ucfthoS
(1 T 1 Westralian experiments have
of an econo mically conducted scheme. The
N .eyeten, meet be taken a, a warning
Admittpdlv the main difficulties will be
* , in tered norts but a°-ain the example
of N .gw. need 1 not ’be followed.. With im-
proved loading and transport facilities lai^e
storage accommodation need not be provided
at tbe seaboar( j. The Westralians found
tbat tbeir wbeat cou id be handled with' con-
gjderably fewer than half the usual number
of corn g ac kS; This, in conjunction with the
saying in twine and labor of sewing, is an
appreciable item.
According to Sydney market reports
quotations for bagged wheat are usually from
i d to under those for bulk. The dif-
£erence fl as been explained by the deduc-
tion handling charges being id. per. bushel
-higher on bulk wheat, which brings the value
to the farmer to about the same level. There
appears to be no good reason for any appre-
ciable difference in the price of bagged and
hulk wheat for shipment, as the difference in
value in the European markets rarely ex-
ceeds 3d. per quarter (§d. per bushel) ; this
j g more than compensated for by the lower
rates of ocean freight for bulk wheat—they
have recently been quoted at from 2s. 6d. to
fld. per ton below the rate for wheat in
bags. This works out at nearly Id. per
bushel on the average. The loss in the
value of the bag when sold as wheat is
only about l|d. at present prices. Last
season’s payments on bagged and bulk wheat
from tbe N.S.W. pool showed a difference
of only a fraction of a penny per bushel,
Altogether the odds seem greatly in favor
of tbe bulk system, even after allowing for
a reasonable increase on the costs estimated
in connection with the W.A. experiments.
And it seems possible for a system to be
installed in the principal S. Aus. wheat-
growing centres without the expenditure of
any large sum of public money.
FEEDING WHEAT TO SHEEP.
“Marsh”: In drought periods wheat can
be fed to sheep with advantageous results.
It is unnecessary to soak it; whole grains
of dry wheat are easily digested by the
animals. But another fodder must be given
to act as a form of ballast, and nothing is
better than scrub; belah or mulga for pre-
ference. In conjunction with scrub feed, a
ration of lib. of dry wheat to every six
to eight grown sheep will be found satisfac-
tory.
I have seen sheep fed on dry wheat alone.
Several died, through being unable to digest
the grains. Had those sheep had access to
scrub fodder they would have lived. Lay a
trail of wheat through the scrub country.
This method is better than broadcasting;
with the latter the sheep are liable to lick .
up too much dirt, with injurious results to
the intestines.
If it is desired to feed soaked -wheat to
sheep, soak it in water overnight, and bag
it up again in the morning. To keep the damp
grains from gathering up dirt, feed the sheep
from troughs.
GROWING BLUEBUSII.
“Mulgo”: Stockmen say that where the
bluebush grows it is useless to look for per-
manent: water. But what a boon it is to
stock in the arid regions, when drought has
burnt up the grass and herbage and other
succulent feed ! This lover of the dry coun-
try has few equals as a fodder plant and
drought-resister. In the Darling country it
occurs in patches from the western side of
the river to the north, flourishing in the hot
and rainless belts when other vegetation is
perishing. The bluish woolly covering from
which it gets its name is said to protect it
from the direct rays of the sun. Most
drought-resisters are deep-rooted, but blue-
bush may be propagated when little or no-
thing else will grow.
It is a stout, densely-branched shrub, three
or four feet high, and covered with soft,
thick leaves. Those leaves, cooked like
spinach, make a capital vegetable, and are
relished in many a bush camp and hut where
other “greens” are unobtainable. Horses,
sheep and cattle eat the slender twigs as well
as the leaves. Severe grazing in bad times,
when nothing has been left but hard wood,
and the bark has been stripped from
that, has resulted in numerous once-flourish-
ing patches being destroyed. In such cases,
so far as my experience goes, nothing has
been done to replace them, though it is in
the interest of every grazier in dry parts to
look after what nature has given him.
The -way to propagate bluebush is to
plough and harrow, say, 50-acre patches, sow
the seed and roll the ground. Then keep
stock off it until the plants have made strong
growth, and never - allow them to be eaten
down to bare wood. Near homesteads stock
may be kept off it altogether, and the bush
harvested. The cuttings can be fed green
or chaffed. In localities where farm crops
can’t be grown bluebush is very useful for
stable feeding, and for keeping up the condi-
tion of milkers, for it is green and succulent
when no other green forage is to be had.
The plant is a perennial, and stands close
cutting periodically.
BOISON WEEDS ON STOCK ROUTES.
“Booraby” : Drovers usually ride ahead of
the mob to pick a night camp, and take
notice of the grass and water on the way,
but not all bother to look about for any-
thing else. Danger lurks •in many unsus-
pected places, through poison weeds of
various kinds being spread about the stock
routes, and along the rivers and creeks in
proximity. Drovers from the clean far-back
regions are usually the sufferers, many of
the poison plants being new to them, and
some that do not affect the local herds being
fatal to travelling cattle that gorge on them.
Local reports as to the safety of any part
of fhe route cannot always be depended on
for that reason.
A mob of 575 on the way to Goondiwindi
(Q.) struck a patch of wild mint at Pitts-
wortli, and half of them died in a few
hours ; at the same time local cattle, horses
and other animals feeding regularly over the
same ground were unaffected. This plant is
poisonous only at certain periods. The drover
may not know such plants or their peculiari-
ties, and he can’t rely on the experiences of
residents. The condition of his mob, the
nature of their customary grazing hitherto,
and the circumstances of their feeding and
watering tend to make the animals more sus-
ceptible than stationary cattle. Another
thing: the latter may ignore certain plants,
whereas the travelling mob, coming on to
the pasture hungry, will ravenously eat any-
thing and everything, and perhaps drink
heavily afterwards.
There are thistles that are dangerous at
certain times. The problem of the drover is
to know when. The variegated thistle vs
considered an excellent fodder plant, and
makes good ensilage ; sheep and cattle fatten
on it when it is green. But when its growth
has been checked, or it is wilted through
drought, it is deadly to both sheep and
cattle, and travelling mobs have suf-
fered heavily through eating it. The
mortality from poison weeds is nearly always
among travelling mobs. Another snare for
the drover is that certain plants may be
harmless in one district and deadly in
another. Much depends on the kind of soil
in which they grow, and the seasonal condi-
tions through which they have passed.
The safest plan for any drover is to pro-
vide himself with a list of plants that, are
poisonous, or dangerous at certain periods,
from the Stock Department,, to watch for
them on his route, and avoid them at. all
times. It is not always possible to deviate
from a dangerous patch, but no harm will be
done if the cattle are allowed to graze before
reaching it, and then hustled over it. The
greatest risk is in halting them on the
banks of rivers and creeks without looking
to see what is growing there.
SPELLING STRAWBERRY.
“R.E.” : Other factors must enter into that
lowa claim (B. 23/3/’32) that “cows spelled
three months gave twice as much butter-fat
as when milked from calving to. calving or
given only two or three weeks.’’ The fat
content of milk is influenced only by breed-
ing ; the alleged increase implies that special-
ised feeding doubled the milk volume in a
period shortened by the spell referred to
which is a tall order. Granted that a cer-
tain daily balanced ration will give, say, a
25 p.c. increased milk flow, it does not fol-
low that the same ration quadrupled will
yield 100 p.c. increase. There is a struc-
tural limit to the animal’s capacity to deal
with the greater quantity.
If the three months’ spell means turning
the cows adrift —as against an eight or nine
weeks’ gradually receding production, with
reasonable care—it is a doubtful economy
of the cow’s nervous energy. Heavy milkers
require time to dry off, and in the case of
heifers a protracted lactation period culti-
vates the faculty of milk secretion. Herds
allowed to run down by a long winter spell
cost more than is saved by the time normal
conditions are re-established after spring
calving.
“Mclron”: Men with extensive dairying-
experience are familiar with cows which
dry themselves off, and thereby automatically
give their owners the benefit of the advice
provided in the lowa bulletin referred to by
“Upper Murray”; but those are the dairy
co-ws one usually finds in the saleyards as
culls. How often many of us are told, in
confidence that the reason splendid-looking
dairy cows, guaranteed sound by their
owners, are being sold is that the cows won’t
hang to their milk! How different is the
story of cows which give a long milk yield
and 'which are dried off with difficulty! Many
owners speak almost reverently of such and
keep them on until they are stricken in years.
In my experience the cow that hangs to
her milk yield is a profitable one, either for
milk supply or for butter-fat production. 11
a cow is naturally a long milker and is pro-
vided with a fairly well-balanced food supply
I fail to see how it will harm her if milked
to within several weeks of calving. I have
known many cows which, if dried off three
months before calving, would have been
ruined through inflammation of their udders.
Six weeks is ample spell, always provided
cows are properly fed.
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION.
“Old Toolong” : My irrigation scheme, for
10 acres, cost me 10s., but that was because
I was extravagant enough to cross a gully
witli a length of 2in. pipe, instead of get-
ting a long tree-trunk and cutting a flume
out of it. Having a water-race running
round a half-mile slope for domestic supply,
I cut outlets there, from every chain or so,
with a Y-shaped discharge: this gives about
a half-chain overflow.
The water trickles down the slopes, irri-
gating about a half-acre in each 24 hours.
A few handfuls of mud serve as a flood-gate
when one ’ needs to turn the stream on or
off. No check-banking or grading is neces-
sary, while the natural slope gives a perfect
drainage.
Thousands of small permanent water-
courses in this country offer similar or
better facilities at the cost of a little in-
genuity and odd hours of labor.
STORING LEMONS.
“W. 0.”: I have had over 12 years as a
citrus-grower, and one thing I have learnt
■is that the best theories, methods and sys-
tems are dependent for most of their sue
cessful working on local conditions. If
“R. K. Deea” (B. 16/3/’32) finds his har-
vesting methods suitable to his locality, he
should by no means alter them.
My trees are not 20ft. high; if they were
I would not allow lemons to drop that
(Continued on page 26.)


aw
The comfort of better
leather
It fits softly and smoothly. . . .flexes
without cracking. And for this
Abbey Shoe, built on an exclusive
Abbey last, nothing but the finest
calf, kid or patent leather is used.
The upper, moreover, is shaped in a
distinct curve that accommodates
your instep arch, allowing full play
of the foot muscles. The sole is
tough and pliant.... guaranteed for
maximum service.
ORDER BY POST
Every half size is available in three
fittings narrow, medium and wide.
That guarantees made-to-measure
comfort. Specify width, and order,
also, the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin), or a complete cleaning
outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf 50/-
Glace Kid 50/-
Black Box Calf 47/6
Patent Leather 57/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 276
Notice.
""pO become acquainted with the ex-
tended collection of Choice Flower and
Vegetable Seeds, including Valuable
Novelties, offered by Fosters, Ltd., it is
necessary to obtain their 1932 Catalogue.
Posted free to intending buyers.
FOSTERS, LTD.,
192 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
“The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from “The Bulletin” Office,
all States. *
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller .
CHARLES MORGAN’S NEW
NOVEL.
The Fountain
February choice of the Book
Society. By the author of “Por-
trait in a Mirror.”
[Empire Library.
“Mr. Morgan, with this volume, takes rank
among the abiding storytellers.... ‘The Foun-
tain’ will keep a place among the works that
are called, on a long survey, the literature of
England.”— Gerald Gould in the “Observer.”
The Seven Stars
By ANDRE MALVIL.
[Empire Library.
A translation of the very success-
ful French novel ‘‘La Grande Ourse.”
For the Delight of Antonio
A novel by BEATRICE CURTIS
BROWN.
[Empire Library.
“It has a' sweet, dusky, whispering beauty
that really does touch your nerves.”
—Mary Crosby in “John o’ London.”
NOVEL BY THE AUTHOR OF
"THALASSA.”
The Bud of the Spring
By MARY FRANCES McHUGH.
[Empire Library.
The gradual unfolding of a boy’s
mind and life makes the central theme
of this novel.
Camilla’s Banquet
By ONE OF HER GUESTS.
7s. 6d. net.
In this book a group of friends dis-
cuss some of the main problems of
faith and conduct. But the old form
of philosophical dialogue is here used
in a new way. ,
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
sdf
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Ij
HEls
J*!-- >■
>vhtf
NOT
am i non
UJiV.
gPECIAL concessions have brought Pacific
Island tours within reach of all, so why not
spend your next holiday amid ideal surroundings?
Excursions to SUVA—HONOLULU—RAROTONGA—PAPEETE via N.Z.
For full particulars apply
UNION S. S. CO., Ltd.
247 George Street,
Sydney.
and Union Lines
59 William Street,
Melbourne.
distance to the ground. If any retailer pays
“R. K. Deea” even 2s. fid._ per case for those
he is lucky. My trees are cut up from the
ground all around, and I use a wheelbarrow
frame and boxes.
Incidentally, my present end-of-summer
crop is the best yet, both in quantity and
quality, despite the dryest summer for 30
years. They will be sold fresh, not cured.
My main crop, of course, was picked about
six weeks before those mentioned in my par.
(B. 10/2/’32).
THRIPS IN VICTORIA.
Thrips has been engaging the attention of
entomologists in Victoria, as well as other
States. One result is the discovery, men-
tioned by K. M. Ward in an article appear-
ing in the March “Journal of Agriculture,
that the pest has an effective natural enemy,
a pale red mite known as Anystis baccarum.
Anystis has “large pointed mandibles, pro-
jecting from the front of the head.” With
these it hits Thrips maginis below the belt
and settles its hash. “in a few hours,” Mr.
Ward relates, “a number of the mite.s de-
stroyed an average of as many as 30 thrips
each. During the experiments they increased
i:i numbers until as many as 90 could be
shaken from each plant in the control plots,
and 30 from the treated plants.”
Mr. Ward suggests that “the appearance
of thrips in large numbers is influenced
greatly by high temperature and low rain-
fall in September and October.” Also that
“thrips was not entirely responsible for the
non-setting of fruit this season.... In
general, the pollen was much less viable than
would be expected in a normal season” ; this
was true of berries as well as fruit. Moreover,
“Smith’s seedling, with the heaviest crop of
fruit, showed the highest percentage germi-
nation of pollen (71 per cent.). In some
apple districts in which thrips were in
plague numbers, good crops were obtained.”
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to prepare tobacco which I have
grown myself for pipe-smoking? Would a
letter copying-press do for pressing? —B9s6.
The cured leaf should be allowed to age
for two years. To make plug, place one
bar of liquorice, half a cup of treacle, honey
or molasses, and half a shilling bottle of
glycerine in a vessel containing sufficient
boiling water to dissolve these ingredients.
Sufficient water is then added to the mix-
ture to steep lib. of stemmed leaf, and the
whole is then steamed for four or five hours
by standing in a copper of water over which
a lid is placed and boiling the water. The
leaf is removed partly dried out and pressed.
A letter-press will do the work admirably.
(1) Quantity of sand and cement required
for a 1000 -gallon galvanised iron tank (2)
Thickness of concrete on sides? (3) Propor-
tion of sand to cement? (4) Can I do it
aid in one g0? —9103.
(1) 22 cubic feet of sand and 11 cubic
feet of cement. (2) 2in. (3) One of cement
and two of sand. (4) No. Plaster tank in
layers of |in. Write to Australian Cement
Manufacturers’ Association, 14 Spring-street,
Sydney, for leaflet giving full instructions.
What thickness could a ?,k-li.p. engine and
a 24 in. 10 -gauge circular saw rip comfortably
in cypress pine and spotted gum respectively?
—8907.
The outfit described is a very weak one,
and it would be hard to cope with anything
beyond a 4in. deep cut in any timber.
How are data concerning the rate and
distribution of evaporation in Australia
obtained ? —9002.
Iron-jacketed tanks, 3ft. in diameter, con-
taining 130 gallons each, have been sunk at
selected centres so that their tops! are within
an inch of the surface level of the ground.
In order that the exposed level may be
fairly constant, and that the added water
may not materially affect the temperature
of the main body, the contents of each tank
are replenished when, or before, a fall of
fiiu. has taken place through evaporation.
The information so far obtained is not very
extensive, and observations have been made
in some centres for a few years only, but
a rough approximation to the times of equal
evaporation and the aggregate annual
amounts can be satisfactorily made.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Wescocky”; It pays to damp the hay
previous to cutting small quantities of chaff.
Stack hay in layers and sprinkle each layer
lightly with a watering-can; let it stand
overnight and cut next morning. When
dampened it cuts crisply, doesn’t dust, and
is much more palatable for the horses.
“Sheep-o”: A fault commonly found in
the catching-pens in shearing-sheds is that
too much room is left between the battens.
Grown sheep may not get their feet down
between them, but lambs do, and a struggle
to release the imprisoned foot may mean a
broken leg. If the battens are too far apart
lay some old woolbales over them .and nail
them down temporarily.
“Mug Bushman”; A chaff-bag makes a
handy fly-proof safe for the camp. Hang it
by two wire hooks —one through a bottom
corner and the other about half-way along
the side. Put the top of a petrol-case in it
for a bottom, and tie the slack at the mouth
with twine.
“Cass” ; Touching thistle-root poisoning of
rabbits, the successful rabbiter in my N.S.W.
district uses only black roots growing on
black soil; he says those growing on sandy
soil are almost valueless. For a day’s setting
without a cart his requirements are a gallon
oil-tin with wire handles, a large spoon and
a setter with a four-inch wire prong (or
nail) driven into the handle of setter-head.
The spoon filled with baits is held in the
hand carrying the can. As each hole is made
with the setter, the prong is used to shove
one bait from spoon to hole. A spoon can
be made from a piece of heavy-gauged gal-
vanised iron—lOin. long and 4in. wide. Cut
a handle 2in. wide and fiin. long. Shape the
whole as an ordinary spoon and roll handle
with a hammer.
“Gumblegubbin”: When burning down
trees, the practice is to make a fire in a
hole at one side and cover it up. That
doesn't answer with all soils, and where
the tire can’t be covered, it has to be fed
until the tree is burnt down. The abo. idea
is more economical. He puts a couple of
small logs, end on, against the tree on the
windward side, and lights them at the tree
end. The logs burn slowly, and are moved
up when necessary, while the wind keeps
the flame blowing on to the tree.
“Dimon”: A bush way of destroying mice
when they appear in hordes is to mix a little
strychnine with flour, and place it in wooden
troughs. Wood is better than metal, as it
can be burnt when there is no further use
for it. A “wholesale trap” is made with a
large tub, half-filled with water, and a bottle
laid on a box alongside, with the neck pro-
jecting over the rim of the tub. A bit of
cheese or bread is fastened near the mouth
of the bottle, and in going after that the mice
slip off the neck into the water.
“Bill R.”; When requiring to bend a
down-pipe or any metal tubing so that it
may retain its cylindrical form, and not
flatten at the bend, fill it tightly with sand,
and, if possible, bend cold by leverage
across the bench or anvil. If it is too rigid
for cold bending, plug the ends to prevent
the sand running, and heat the section to
be bent. Still bend by pressure, with as
little use of the hammer as possible.
“Wanganella”: Hoop-iron should be kept.
Used in wooden gates in place of the second
and fourth rails the iron makes a neat job.
Fix one end to gate-head and rivet a bolt
to the other end. Bore through gate-head
and put bolt through, and by tightening the
nut you can always keep the gate rigid.
Iron laths from old lids are excellent for this.
“Dave Cow-cocky”: Get those rugs out
now and overhaul them. It’s the first breath
of winter that makes the milk yield fall
off, so don’t hesitate to use rugs when the
milkers look pinched up. Bags and rope will
make a rug and a canvas cover improves it:
felt or sheepskin is a good backpiece lining.
Sprinkle well with disinfectant prior to use.
and expose to the sun every day when in
use. “A rug’s as good as a feed.”
“Floodmark”: Now that winter is
approaching, keep a tin of mutton fat, mixed
with a little kerosene, in the cow yard
ready for use on the first sign of a cracked
teat. Quickly applied the stuff will effect
a cure overnight. In cold weather badly-
cracked teats are obstinate healers, and mean-
time Strawberry is touchy and won’t let
down her milk.
“Gumblegubbin”: It is always a good plan
to handle foals, whether they are saddle or
draught, beginning by gently patting and
stroking them. Then put a light headstall
on thqm, and from that learn them to lead
with a halter, but always take them quietly.
Horses that have been handled and taught
to lead when foals are more amiable and
give comparatively little trouble when being
broken into saddle or harness. Branding
time gives the foal a shock, and some horse-
men believe in beginning the kindergarten
lessons then, dispelling his fears and shyness
by gentle handling before turning him out.
“Karaway”: Goats make good foster-
mothers ; they are particularly useful when
lambs have lost their own mothers, or when
the latter are unable to rear their progeny.
It is necessary to bail the nannies up a few
times, but after that there is no trouble.
During the 1902 drought several squatters
in southern N.S.W. bought goats to keep
their stud lambs alive. The hardy, omniv-
orous fossickers thrived where sheep starved.
“Searchlight”: On the N.S.W. Northern
Rivers I have often seen maize chosen for
seed purposes in the barn. Such a method
can only lead to disappointment. The first
choice must be made in the field, when the
plants are tliree-parts grown; those seem-
ingly suitable at that time should be marked.
Later they should again be gone over to see
that they have lived up to promise. The
cobs should be perfect in formation and
well filled with good sound grain, but the
plant should also have a sturdy stalk and
good vital coloring and- carry two or three
cobs of good average size.
“Homby”: For hand-cleaning bore drains
in between sledging (which, with ordinary
care, is only necessary every six months)
a handy instrument has been devised by
Walgett farmers; they have named it a
“gadze.” It is made from the top end of
an ordinary oil-drum, and Bft. or 10ft. of
lin. sapling. The drum-end is about 18in.'
in depth, with a semi-circle a foot deep cut
from the under or working side. The sap-
ling is barked, and one end passed inside the
drum and through the bung hole (which, of
course, is on top), and secured to the drum
by copper or zinc wire passed through
punched holes. With it a steady worker
can clear three miles of drain of roly-poly,
etc., in a day.
“Mug Bushman”: Ever tried motor tube
for a saddle-cloth? Use a big balloon tube
and slit it down the wide side. Holes
punched all over make it an air-cushion,
equal to horsehair. Should the neddy have
a saddle gall a hole cut in the “saddle-
cloth” to fit over the spot will keep pres-
sure off it and give it a chance to heal.
“Gardener” : Visiting a large mixed N.S.W.
orchard the other day, I saw a map in the
office showing the whole of the trees. The
owner said it was a great help when giving
directions to casual labor, hired for picking,
pruning or spraying.
“Dimon”: Ducks usually foul all drink-
ing-water they can get at. To avoid that,
where fowls and ducks run together pro-
tect the water trough by nailing some narrow
battens in front of it, a couple of inches
apart, so that the birds can get only their
heads and necks through. To keep the ducks
away from the fowl water, rig the trough
a foot or so off the ground, and place a
perch for them in front of it.
“Dai R.”: When you are post-boring in
sandy country the life of bits will be quad-
rupled if the bit greasepot is kept covered.
This can be conveniently done without loss
of time by using a hinged-lid tin. Nothing
wears (and blunts) bits as quickly as sandy
grease.
“Yarri”: If you want to lift the hind foot
of a colt, move him till the foot is forward,
then take hold of it from the inside. He
may pull away a time or two, but in the
nosition you are quite safe; he has to draw
his log back before he can cow-kick, and
that gives time to step clear.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible,
Wants.
Ex-bank officer, N.S.W. (30), single, unemployed
12 months, seeks work anywhere at anything. Refs.
—9102.
Young lady, Sydney, senior, able type, attend
telephone switchboard, carry out general office
assistant’s duties, varied exp. hotel, insurance and
newspaper offices, requires work. —9122.
Wanted position as married couple in Q. or N.S.W.
Wife, cook and bake; husband, general station-
hand. Refs.—9l9s.
Middle-aged man, Australian, well-read, travelled,
very limited means, wants meet person similarly
situated for companionship, Sydney.—9lo9.
Young lady, Tas!, dressmaking and business exp.,
wants position as companion-help to lady travelling
abroad. —9093.
Woman graduate of Sydney Uni. (22), trained
teacher, seeks post as governess, secretary, com-
panion or tutor, anywhere. —9136.
Teacher (8.A.), N.S.W., offers services as tutor
or governess, city preferred.—9o9o.
Ex-librarian, Sydney, seeks research work in all
branches. Australiana a specialty. Will classify
catalogue and value libraries.—9l2l.
College professor (32), French graduate, desirous
to improve his English, would help persons studying
French in exchange for hints, criticisms, corrections,
through correspondence. —9107.
Settler, Q’land, wishing to build homestead out
of logs, would like to hear from others who have
built similar houses.—9lsB.
To buy Ince and Gilbert’s “History of England.”
—9137.
To buy “Editing the Day’s News,” by Bastian,
and “The Column,” by Hallam Davis. —9140.
To buy “The Sketch,” October 31, 1928.—9194.
To buy “How to Handle and Educate Vicious
Horses,” by Gleeson. —9190.
Words of song, “Miss Hourigan’s Christmas Cake.”
—9183.
Words of bush ditties “Waltzing Matilda” and
“The Genteel Bullock-driver.” —9154.
Words of verse, the initial letter of each word of
which is a separate letter of the alphabet, beginning-
“ Apparently believers can’t deny established faith
gets half in jeopardy.” —9094.
Information Sought.
To what does the phrase “Mason and
Dixon’s line’’ refer? —9089.
It is the popular name of the boundary-
line surveyed by two English surveyors,
Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon, in 1767,
to settle the constant dissensions between
the Baltimore and Penn families, proprietors
of Maryland and Pennsylvania respectively.
The name was afterwards currently applied
to designate an imaginary boundary-line
between the free and the slave States, a
practice which took its rise in 1820, when
in the debates upon the Missouri Compromise
Bill a legislator made use of the phrase.
Did William Charles Wentworth ever
make an effort to establish an Australian
peerage, and if so, what prevented him from
carrying out the idea? —9096.
In 1853 Wentworth’s select committee,
appointed by the N. S. Wales Leg. Council
to draft a Constitution bill, recommended
the creation of peers with hereditary titles
to form a body from which members of the
Upper House under responsible government
should be drawn. Henry Parlces, through
hi.s newspaper, the “Empire,” called on all
citizens to oppose the establishment of a
colonial aristocracy with legislative func-
tions. As a result of the determined opposi-
tion to the proposal,' Wentworth reluctantly
agreed to abandon it, accepting instead the
nominee principle for the Upper House. '
(1) Where can training as a masseur be
obtained in Melbourne? (2) Length of
course? (3) Approximate cost? (4) Pros-
pects of employment when qualified? —92o2.
(1) At Melb. Uni. (2) 2k years. (3)
£lOO, inclusive of books. (4) Fair. All
students who have qualified seem to have
jobs,
(1) Number of pei'sons killed last year in
U.B.A. in the enforcement of the prohibi-
tion law and number killed up to date? (2)
How many alien boats are seised each year
for rum-running? (3) Number of arrests,
automobiles seised, liquor and braving
material confiscated? —9080.
(1) Latest available return, fqr the year
ended June 30, 1931. shows that 5 enforce-
ment officers and 7 civilians were killed. The
total killed from the commencement of pro-
hibition was 70 enforcement officers and
162 civilians. (2) Twenty ships, all
British, were seized for rum-running in
1930-31. (3) During the year prohibition-
agents made 63,177 arrests, seized 8499 auto-
mobiles, 76 boats, 21,541 stills, 14,904 fer-
menters, 5,319,613 gallons of beer, 1,934,628
gallons of spirits, 291,582 gallons of wine,
approximately 4,076,0141 b. and 142,785
gallons of distilling and brewing materials,
together with 32,061,497 gallons of mash.
(1) Is Australia the headquarters of the
marsupials? (2) Is the order confined
strictly to Australia? —9015.
(1)" Yes. (2) No. An entire family
(that of the true or American opossums,
comprising about 24 species) is confined to
America; the only living representative
(Cwnolestes ) of an entirely distinct group
is an inhabitant of the same continent.
Tasmania and New Guinea, formerly con-
nected with the mainland, contain over 60
species of marsupials. A species of wallaby
occurs in the Aru Islands, *and another
species in the New Britain group. There
is a cuscus in Amboina. the Solomons,
Timor, and some of the smaller islands, and
another cuscus in Celebes.
Of what benefit to taxpayers is the Indus-
trial Hygiene Division of the Commonwealth
Health Department? —9ol7.
It collects data, investigates industrial
conditions affecting health, and issues advice
to employers and employees for the improve-
ment of conditions of work and for the
safeguarding of health. Publications have
been issued.
In a story dealing -with life in early iSyd-
ney a reference is made to a person as being
a writer of “pipes.'’ (1) What were “pipes”.
(2) Where could I obtain full information
regarding them and see specimens? —9o22.
(1) The name given to scurrilous papers
lampooning high-placed officials or other well-
known persons. The word is a slang term
and is the noun of the verb “to pipe’ ;
that is, to watch a rqan and in some way
victimise him. The first “pipes” were cir-
culated in 1803 against Governor King, whose
efforts to prevent the sale of rum met with
much hostility. (2) See article on the
subject in “The Australian Encyclopaedia.”
The Mitchell Library, Sydney, has a collec-
tion of manuscript and printed copies.
How was the Shasta daisy evolved? —
9025.
The pollen of the dog daisy (Chrysan-
themum maximum) of Europe, placed on
the stigma of the Japanese ox-eye daisy
( G. nipponicum) produced the seed from
which it Avas raised. The dog daisy was the
male parent; the ox-eye daisy the female.
(1) Can a winner of any of the first four
prizes in “a certain’’ lottery have his
name and address kept secret should he so
desire? (2) Can the purchaser of a ticket
give a fictitious name to hide his identity
and, should he win one of the first four
prizes, receive payment? —9oll.
(1) No. (2) Yes, but it will be neces-
sary for him to prove that he is the person
entitled to the prize.
What is the Australian War Railway
Council, and its strength? —9olo.
It is a council consisting of military and
railway officers, instituted in 1911. Its
chief duties are to furnish advice and infor-
mation regarding railway transport for
military purposes, and to secure co-operation
between Defence and Railway Departments
in regard to concentration and mobilisation
of troops. An Engineer and Railway Staff
Corps has been instituted, and numbered
58 officers on March 31, 1931.
(1) When Australia captured German
Hew Guinea what happened to the German
civil officials, army officers and residents?
(2) What was done about property belong-
ing to German residents? —9020.
(1) Civil officials were retui-ped to
Ger-many, and officers of the regular army
sent to Australia as prisoners of war. Of
the other German colonists, many were
deported for military reasons and others
left voluntarily. (2) The Treaty of Peace
provided that German nationals resident in
her former colonies might be repatriated;
and that their property rights and interests
might be retained and liquidated by the
Allies, the proceeds being credited to
Germany in part payment of reparations.
In pursuance of these powers, in September.
1920. the property of the principal German
cos. in the Territory, and in March, 1921,
that of a large number of German planters,
was vested in the Public Trustee. In 1926
and 1927 these plantations were transferred
to private owners.
(1 ) Area and population of Guam Island
in the Mariana Group? (2) Principal
industries? (3) Is land available and cost?
(4) Taxation? (5) What is the native and
official language? (6) Is the island subject
to serious climatic disturbances? —9030.
(1) Length 32 miles, breadth 4 to 10
miles, area 325 sq. miles. Pop., about 500
whites, mostly American, and 16,517 natives.
(2) Copra, cocoa, coffee and sugar-cane are
the principal products. (3) Aliens cannot
purchase land, but can lease it for five
years. The price of freehold is 3 to 10
dollars per hectare. (4) Poll tax of two
dollars p.a.; real-estate tax of 3 and 34
per cent, on appraised valuations. (5) The
native language is Chamorro, but Spanish
and English are also spoken. The official
language is English. (6) Typhoons and
earthquakes are of common occurrence.
(1) How to differentiate between the
thrde types of overprints in the early n.-w.
Pacific Island stamps? (2) Which is the
rarei • type? (3) Did the three types all
occur on the same sheet? (4) In what year
were these overprints superseded by the
“village” type of Hew Guinea? (5) Is the
bird-of -paradise issue a permanent one? —
9185.
(1) Type A, both “s’s” in the word “Islands”
are normal; type B, first “s” of “Island” has
a small head and large tail, but the second
is normal: type C, both “s’s” of “Islands”
have small heads and large tails. (2) Type
B. (3) Yes. (4) 1925. (5) No. Probably
a new issue will be made this year, or the
present design will be altered in some way.
(T) I am told that the wave-length of cer-
tain wireless broadcasting stations is con-
trolled by means of a crystal. llow is this
brought abotit? (2) Is the crystal used
similar to the type employed in crystal re-
ceivers ? —9ISO.
(1) There are a number of crystalline
substances, such as Rochelle salts, tourma-
line and quartz, known as piezo-electric cry-
stals, which, if cut in a certain manner and
mounted between parallel metal plates con-
nected to a source of alternating current,
expand and contract as the charge on the
plates reverses its polarity, and generate
alternating electric charges in the two plates.
This property is used to control the fre-
quency of certain valve transmitters where:
the weak impulses generated by the crystal
are amplified to a strength sufficient to
drive the transmitter. (2) No. Galena,
carborundum, pyrites, etc., are used in re-
ceivers.
(1) How can 1 remove the pictures f ro ™
exposed films to leave them clearf (2)
How can I obtain a negative film from a
positive movie film? —8967.
(1) Immerse in a strong solution of soda
carbonate and warm water, increasing tem-
perature until the coating of the celluloid
flows off. (2) Print in the same manner as
when making contact prints from a nega-
tive, using Kodak copying film.
(1) What procedure is necessary to obtain
a copyright for a musical production? (-)
Where is copyright obtainable in N.S.W..
(3) Cost of copyright for a musical play .
(4) Does a copyright obtained in Australia
apply to all other countries? (5) Is «
necessary to copyright music before submit-
ting it to a publisher? —9o79. _ *
(1), (2) and (3) Forms, obtainable from
the Copyright Office, Sydney, should be hik'd
in and lodged at that office with fee of os.
and a clear copy of the work. (4) R
applies throughout the British Empire, xou
can also copyright the work here in tle
principal foreign countries, except tne
U.S.A., where the work must be both copy-
righted and published, and within 14 days
must also be published in some part of the
British Empire. (5) Registration is
optional, but certain summary remedies a e
available only to registered owners.
The first stamps issued in N.S.W. in 1850
were printed from plates , the individual im-
pressions of which were engraved by hand.
Thus each stamp on the sheet differed slightly
from all the other stamps on that sheet.
(1) How can I determine the positions of
the various stamps? (2) Number of plates
used for the penny value? (3) Chief differ-
ence between them? (4) Meantng of J " e
motto “Sic fortis Etruria crevit ?—9178.
(1) Chiefly by studying the positions or
the letters in “Sigillum Nov.; Camb.; Aust.,
relative to the various objects in the central
design. This can be done by paying a visit
to the White collection in the Mitchell
Library, Sydney. (2) Two. (3) Plate one
contains no clouds, whereas plate two, witn
the exception of No, 15 on the sheet, has
clouds. (4) “Thus mighty Etruria grew.
How to propagate carnations and verbenas
by ‘■‘layering ”?•—9loo.
‘ Peg down the drooping branches or shoots
to the ground, and cover a portion with a
few inches of newly-dug soil, leaving the
end just above the ground. In a few months
the new plant may be cut from the parent
and be moved. As a rule, spring layers of
hard-wooded plants will be ready for trans-
planting the following autumn. It is often
advisable to cut the branch partly through
on the under side, where it is pegged into
the ground.
How does the letter “z” come to be used
in connection with the word ounce abbre-
viated to “oz.’’? —9086.
The “z” is the old-fashioned long s
corrupted.
(1) I am told that only those stamps that
have passed through the post are of value
for a collection. Is this correct? (2) Gan
obsolete Australian stamps , such as the Can-
berra and W.A. Swan issues, still be used
for postal purposes? —9o2l.
(1) No. For instance, early Australian
State issues command very high prices un-
marked. (2) Yes.
Before a youth is permitted to become an
apprentice to a pharmaceutical chemist in
Queensland what examinations must he pass?
What subjects must he pass in and at what
standard? Fee for such examination? —9098.
He must obtain at least a second-class
(B) pass in Latin, English, arithmetic,
algebra and geometry in the Junior Public
Examination of Q’land Uni. Applications
to sit for examination must be sent in can-
didate’s writing to the Registrar, Pharmacy
Board, Brisbane, accompanied by a fee of
£4 4s.
(1) Area and population of Norfolk
Island? (2) What taxes are paid by the
inhabitants? (3) Are there any hotels on
the island, and, briefly, what is the island’s
liquor law? —9099.
(1) Area, 8528 acres; pop., 942. (2)
No taxes are, levied on inhabitants, but
every adult male resident is obliged to work
15 days annually on the roads or public
reserves, or to pay a sum in lieu of such
work. (3) No licensed hotel. The Adminis-
tration controls the importation of liquor and
its supply to residents. A permit is granted
to a resident only if he is considered a
“fit and proper person” by the Government
medical officer. This permit allows him one
bottle of spirits or six bottles of beer per
fortnight.
(1) Are there preferential railway rates
in operation between Sydney and Riverina
stations, designed to secure trade to and
from the latter area to Sydney? (2) Ditto
between Sydney and Broken Hill and Syd-
ney and far-northern N.S.W. stations for
purpose of keeping trade from Adelaide and
Brisbane? (3) Any preferential rates
operating on N.S.W. railways? —B9B3.
(1), (2) and (3) No. Many years ago
preferential rates did operate, but were abol-
ished with the advent of Federation. The
special rates for agricultural produce at one
time applied only to consignments conveyed
from the country towards the seaboard. This
distinction was abolished many years ago,
and the rates now apply irrespective of the
direction in which the traffic is carried.
(1) What is the difference between im-
pedence and resistance? (2) When coupling
a loud-speaker to a valve, the speaker resist-
ance should be about double the valwe imped-
ence. Does this refer to the impedence or
the resistance of the speaker? (3) Reason
for this? —9189.
(1) Resistance is the opposition offered to
the flow of direct current; impedence is the
opposition offered to alternating current. The
impedence of a coil increases with its resist-
ance and inductance as well as with the
frequency. (2) Since alternating current is
involved, the impedence of the speaker is
implied, not its resistance. (3) For maxi-
mum output, the speaker impedence must bo
equal to the valve impedence. but for im-
proved quality, maximum output is sacrificed
by increasing the speaker impedence to
double that of the valve in the case of the
triode.
Brief Answers.
J.N.P.: To treat carpet-snake skins before
sending to the buying agents, scrape off any; surplus
flesh, nail out on a plank and dry slowly in a shed.
Do not expose to the sun when drying M.R.:
Write to Q’land Agriculture Department for booklet.
B.F.: Neither ticket drew a prize L.G.: A
Burns-Philp steamer leaves Sydney every five weeks
for Norfolk Island. The trip occupies five days
each way, and passengers must wait on the island
about 18 days to connect with return steamer.
Fare, £9 each way....H.5.: Bradman would be
required to live in England for four years before
being eligible to play for England and during that
time he must not have played for Australia. Even
then he could play against Australia only after
obtaining the consent of the Board of Control....
H.T.M.: We know of no method of treating coir
mats that would lengthen their life... . Arg.:
Although payments under the Wheat Bounty Act
are not exempt from attachment for debts contracted
by farmers, so far as regards the Rural Industries
Branch, N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture, it has been
decided that no claim to the wheat bounty will be
made. . . .F.P. : (1) Not so far as we know. (2)
He would be taken prisoner. If he tried to escape
he would run the risk of being shot. . . .N.H.: Per-
mission to republish must be secured from holders
of copyright and the source acknowledged in the
republication F. 11.5.: A Queen Anne guinea, if
in good condition, is worth 30s. A reliable dealer
is Lyster Ormsby, 233 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
... .L.R.: The Institute of Architects of N. S. Wales,
Sydney, will furnish you with a scale of professional
charges upon request. .. .E.G.: Students may enter
the Norland Nursing College between the ages of
17 and 30 years. Further particulars from the Matron
at 68 Charlotte-street, Ashfield. .. .E.H.P.: Sec.
Australasian Massage Association, 185 Elizabeth-street.
. ...W.S.: See “Pulverised Fuel To-day,” by J. C.
Brand, reprinted from the transactions of the Insti-
tution of Engineers and Shipbuilders in Scotland....
R.W.K.: Marsden Island in Torres Strait is said to
have been discovered and named by Matthew Flinders,
and named after William Marsden, of the Govt,
service at Bencoolen, Sumatra, 1770-78. .. .S.K.:
By a special Customs proclamation works of art
given to public institutions are exempted from
payment of duty.. . . A. 8.: Approach inter-State
shipping cos. and indicate nature of employment....
E.C.D.: Write Chamber of Commerce, Calcutta....
R. : The Monroe Doctrine is the doctrine formu-
lated by President Monroe, of U.S.A. that any
attempt at colonisation by a European Power within
the American area will be regarded as an unfriendly
act R.H.: See “C’wealth Official Year-Book,”
1931, page 415 C.H.: Try frequent wash-
ing of the scalp with soap spirit. This soap should
be thoroughly washed out, not only with; the water
in which the washing has taken place but with two
or three fresh waters as well. .. .A.G.S.: Get a glass
boat-shaped douche and irrigate the nostrils twice
a day with a little salt and water. Keep the
throat clean by gargles. Attention to the teeth is
important, as is also the general condition of the
patient. Possibly there is some cause of the catarrh
which might be removed by medical attention....
P.H.: No difference between the drugs mentioned.
Get the cheaper E.M.G.: (1) Apparently not. For
the purposes of the Moratorium Act the transaction
is a mortgage. A mortgage which has expired
during the continuance of the moratorium is main-
tained in force, the rate of interest being fixed
at seven per cent. This, however, does not appear
to be your case. (2) and (3) You are entitled to
a reduction of interest... .V.F.: We know of no
method of increasing one’s height, except to take
general physical culture and to make a point of
walking perfectly upright. .. .M.P.: Anybody can
contract cancer, though it is mostly a disease of
middle age. Babies have suffered on occasions....
E. J.N.: You should join the Saddlers, Tanners and
Leather-workers’ union... .R.T.N.: (1) M 2 carried
one 3in. and two Lewis guns. (2) She originally
carried one 12in. gun. This was removed and a
seaplane was carried. (3) Ml was the first, lost
by collision on November 12, 1925... .S.R.: It will
be necessary to secure permission to reprint....
H.H.: Bland’s “Shadows and Realities of Govern-
ment,” White’s “Public Administration,” Willough-
by’s “Principles of Public Administration” and “The
Development of the Civil Service,” Munro’s “Prin-
ciples and Methods of Municipal Administration” *
and Bluett’s “N.S.W. Local Govt. Handbook”
S. : The best time to prune wattles is immedi-
ately after the flowering period.... F.C.: Communi-
cate with Paymaster-General, Supreme Court, London.
R.D.: (1) All to the widow. (2) Up to £5OO
all to the widow. She takes one-third of the re-
mainder and two-thirds go to children equally. (3)
If the property was situated in a county, write to
the County Clerk of the Peace; if in a burgh, to
its Town Clerk. .. .T.H.M.: It was announced that
the race was worth exactly 50,000 dollars to the
winner. .. .L.C. : We know of no books dealing with
tobacco manufacture in a small way... .A.L.C.J.:
In Q’land there is no State or Federal tax on the
winnings from any lottery... .D.R.P.: The great
difficulty in marketing pawpaws is getting them to
Sydney in a marketable condition. There is only
a limited sale, even if in good condition, Present
price is about 10s. to 12s. per banana case....
A.A.0.: (1) Apply to successful contractors when the
contracts have been let. (2) Probably be at an
early date. (3) Fair chance, but you should make
sure of engagement before travelling to Q’land. . . .
G.F.N.: W. Elliot was apprenticed to J. Tie, Mel-
bourne, on 24th September, 1923, and was granted
a permit to ride on 4th June, 1924. His age is
23 T.J.R.: See “Aust. and N.Z. Writers’ and
Artists’ Year-Book” (2s. 6d.), any bookseller....
G.R.: Write Under-Secretary, Agriculture Dept.,
Brisbane.. . .R.W.E.: Five field ambulances are main-
tained in and around Sydney. Apply to Deputy
Director Medical Services, Victoria Barracks, Pad-
dington. Highest rank attainable by a member not
a qualified medical practitioner is quarter-master.
. ...F.G.S.: (1) It covers an area of two square
miles. (2) About 200. (3) Write Burns Philp,
Bridge-street, Sydney. (4) The island is over-
populated already. No land available for outsiders.
(5) From Parkin Christian, Chief Magistrate of the
island L.H.8.: Tuition by correspondence in
printing by the Sydney Technical College is restricted
to apprentice and journeymen compositors residing
at distances from Sydney which preclude personal
attendance... .A.C.: You must, as advised, look to
the land. In the meantime the Moratorium Acts,
which do not expire till the early part of next year,
stand in the way of repossession without the consent
of a Moratorium Court. You cannot sue for interest
meanwhile D.F.8.: (1) Yes. (2) You could
compel them in a court of law to produce them.
(3) You would be liable for the unpaid balance of
the face value of the shares. (4) You would have
judgment entered against you for the balance due
on the shares and have to pay legal costs... -
G. 8.: (1) and (3) Curio value of the coin is
destroyed by the engraving. (2) The addresses of
gold-buyers are advertised in Sydney newspapers.
. ...Aimee: This page doesn’t express opinions on
political controversies. . . .A.G.8.: The book has no
commercial value J.M.N.: Bulletin containing
article has been posted... .J.J.8.: 12 per cent
(Many others mailed.)


Blue North
By
H. Drake-Brockman.
Synopsis: In 1876 John Fordyce,
leaving his extravagant and discon-
tented wife Euphemia, sails from Fre-
mantle for the Blue North in search
of pearls and freedom. At Cossack John
wins the hero-worship of Sophie, Ma
Gannet’s little slavey. Bella, the hand-
some barmaid of Mark's pub, becomes
infatuated with him; they spend the
night together. Meeting again before
he sails he is casual, but she restrains
her passion only because Baia Bud-
son, a brutal pearler whose woman she
is, is present. Fordyce’s divers make
a good, beginning; he is fishing a bank
when he sees Budson kill a female
diver. Captain Mac Koo tells him to
forget it. Blaming the girl for For-
dyce’s neglect of her, Bella, by insi-
dious suggestion, gets Ma Gannet to
sell Sophie to Baia. John decides . to
take Sophie with him on the Sprite.
Budson goes to drag her back, but
Fordyce belittles him before ribald
Cossack. Sophie is ranidly recover-
ing, but cannot bear to face the other
pearlers, and John sails further north.
Before leaving an uncharted harbor
they call Paradise, John becomes
Sophie’s accepted lover. Wood-gather-
ing, they are attacked by natives whom,
they manage to frighten off. Aboard,
they learn Budson, vengefully follow-
ing them, has landed —not suspecting
hostile blacks. With a laugh John pre-
pares to rescue him.
CHAPTER XIX.
Concerning an episode wherein John
Fordyce, to his regret, is jorced to
save the life of Captain Budson.
SOPHIE lay sobbing on her bunk when
John entered the cabin. The sound of
her misery came to him through the
thin partition, and he could not help but
comfort her.
‘‘Don’t be a child, Sophie,” he said strok-
ing her hair from damp, flushed forehead.
“Bea woman. How can Baia harm you now
you belong to me? Have you lost faith in
me because I love you?” Sophie clung
passionately to him in mute denial. “Then
be brave —you have courage enough for
two over anything else! You didn’t lose
your head when the natives were after us.
I think they are after Baia now, or soon
will be. He followed us to shore—and I’m
getting ready to go to the rescue should
need arise.”
Sophie sat up and clasped her hands.
“You are not to go, John! I hope they do
get him—he has always been cruel to his
divers.”
“I know all about that,” John replied,
secretly amused at the contrast between
Sophie’s bloodthirsty vehemence and the
childishness of her appearance as she sat
with slender bare legs swinging over the
side of the bunk. “But though I happen
to think a decent boy worth twenty Baia
Budsons, I can’t leave him and his men to
be murdered by niggers. Now come up and
watch with me, like a good girl.”
He possessed no inkling of the super-
human effort the girl made as she dutifully
rose to follow.
Through his glasses John spied Budson’s
dinghy drawn up on a beach at the near side
of the promontory which made one arm of
the cove wherein they had encountered the
wild natives. Rocks and scrub cut off
view of the little bay itself. One man —
the boy. John guessed from his dark naked-
ness —had been left with the boat. The
others were nowhere to be seen.
In hopes of a better view John swung
into the rigging; from there he could see
right into the cove. He soon distinguished
natives moving amongst the bushes, still
brandishing their spears in a great state of
excitement.
Suddenly a tiny puff of smoke, like a
ball of cotton-wool rose up from the scrub.
Report of a gun rattled across the water.
Came a second puff, a third, a fourth, and
after them the echo of gunfire. The natives
rushed forward.
John slid down to the deck, shouting as
he came. “They mean to attack, all right,
guns or not. We’ll go, Wilson. The way
those shots showed up means the whites
are making a running fight of it. Send
Nguri and three pull-away hands to the
dinghy.”
He dropped a kiss on Sophie’s cold lips.
Inside three minutes he was flying to the
rescue as fast as four oars and a sail, could
take him.
Baia and his crew appeared over the
rocks, running for their lives. And as they
ran they dodged, and one would pause
to fire backwards into the bushes.
“This is a damned ironical business,”
said John to Wilson. “Imagine having
to save that fellow from a spear, when it
would only be a sort of poetic justice.
Quick feller, boys! One big-feller pull!”
Black forms came into sight behind the
fleeing whites. Spears answered shots,
whistle of their flight reaching the ears of
the men from the Sprite.
Madly Baia pounded towards his boat.
He did not pause to shoot; it was his mate
who every now a.nd then checked the
natives with shots which fell wide of their
mark.
A spear caught Budson; he stumbled and
fell. Two of his crew turned to help him
up, whilst the mate fired on their pursuers;
but John realised that, without something
more effective than those random shots, the
four whites could not reach their boat in
time—they would be massacred before his
eyes. He yelled to his boys to steady the
boat and prayed that he would not miss.
As the smoke cleared from the barrel of
his gun he beheld the magnificent buck
into whose face he had so closely gazed
throw up his arms and topple backwards.
The natives stopped dead. Baia and his
men tumbled into their dinghy and pushed
off.
“A good man for a bad,” said John
savagely. “Racial prestige is all very well,
but believe me, Wilson, I personally had
rather seen Budson speared than shoot that
native!”
By this time the panting runaways were
alongside. Budson’s cheeks were white. His
shirt hung in rents, ahd beneath his arm
John noticed a mark, like a lash from a
riding-whip, oozing blood. He grinned.
The sight pleased him more than he cared
to admit. He was glad Baia had not got off
scot-free.
But reaction in Budson, from fear of his
most precious skin, had turned to white-
hot rage.
“The devils!” he roared. “Give ’em a
volley—that’ll teach ’em!”
John looked to where the jabbering
natives were carrying off the man he had
shot.
“If you dare, Budson,” he retorted coldly,
“I shall be more than ever sorry I came
to the rescue.”
“Rescue!” Budson sneered, looking now
at John for the first time.
“Mr. Fordyce saved us right enough,”
put in his mate. “We’d be dead meat now
but for him.”
“Do you expect me to thank you?”
Budson asked.
John shrugged. “I expect that distaste for
the favor is mutual.”
Budson leant across the gunwale towards
John, and heaved his great shoulders. Then,
pointing to the weapons; “I brought these
guns to shoot you with, I might say!”
John bowed. “If you want a duel, I am
willing to oblige you. It would give me far
greater pleasure to fire at you than at
the man I dropped to save you!”
John’s lips met in a grim line, but he
knew he would laugh if he had been able
to see himself glaring at Budson glaring
back, whilst four other white men sat un-
comfortable spectators, and his boys glow-
ered at Baia’s.
“Oh, I fight no duels over a slut!” Bud-
son at last exclaimed.
“None of that! You are asking for
trouble, goon I may make you regret the
natives missed their chance.”
No thought of farce on the part of John
now. He spoke through clenched teeth.
“Leave her out then. I’ll say thank you,
young Fordyce,” replied Budson with a
grand flourish. “Baia Budson never minds
acknowledging a service. And I’ll refrain
from shooting you. But I think the Nor’-
West coast is scarcely long enough for the
two of us!”
“That possibility had already occurred to
me.”
“Well,” smiled Baia evilly, twisting his
restless body, “I shall not be the one to
go. If you want my advice you’ll take
your catch south, including the girl, with
you —if you mean to keep ’em.”
“I go south when it suits me and return
when it suits me,” Fordyce answered levelly.
“But remember to watch that your oars hit
no more gins, Budson! You may thank
your crew now for your life—not me! It
was they I came to rescue —I’d not save
even a white man from black justice!”
And John ordered the boys to pull away,
and instantly his dinghy was hauling off
towards the Sprite.
“Now let us forget about him,” said
John to Sophie when he told her what had
occurred. “He won’t try to kill me any
more—even if you think he meant to, which
I rather doubt. You should have seen
him running for his life from the niggers!
He’s a coward really. Think no more of
him—promise me, Sophie?”
She lifted sombre eyes. “I can’t promise
a thing I might not be able to do-—but HI
try. Oh, John,” she said wistfully, “how
did he ever come to think of me? lhat
is what I always wonder!”
In answer John caught her close and
kissed shut the clear eyes he dared not face.
Whatever happened, never would he tell
Sophie about Bella. How could he? Jo the
young girl he was clothed in the shining
garments of perfection. How could he strip
off such a cloak to display his nakedness?
Sophie was no fool, for all her youth. He
could not help but feel that she would be
swift to leap to the inevitable conclusion
that Bella’s jealousy had made a burnt offer-
ing of her. He could not let her in any way
suspect that a thoughtless affair on his own
part had ended by enmeshing her in tragedy.
The sound of her soft voice asking
the question tortured him almost beyond
endurance.
“Darling,” he said in muffled tones. “Has
it not occurred to you that you would never
have been here on the Sprite with me had
it not been for that horrible man?”
She trembled against him; and presently
two quivering lips pressed his with passion.
John was almost startled. Sophie might
have responded ardently to his caresses, but
this was the first she had bestowed of her
own accord.
“I shall never feel so bad about him
again,” she whispered.
And John, embracing her, tasted bitter-
ness in the winning of that first eager, shy
kiss, that avowal that she counted no price
too high to pay for love of him—bitterness
because he felt he had won it by no more
than easy sophistry.
CHAPTER XX.
Concerning Mrs. Coffey’s difficulties;
and a news-sheet wherein John For-
dyce learns the last of Mr. John Collins.
The heat poured off the spinifex hills
behind Cossack and prostrated Mrs. Coffey.
The fat little woman lay gasping in the
precious rocking-chair, with its hot carpet
seat, on the verandah overlooking the
creek. Coffey would be back presently, and
she would have to continue with her valiant
effort at complacency. Each day it grew
more difficult to pretend she liked this exist-
ence so far removed from even such com-
forts as were available in the South. Had
she and Coffey really courted in green lanes
where hawthorn drifted across their path
in a shower of sweetness, where lambs that
were white frisked round their mothers,
wagging their tails in joy as they sucked,
tiny spots of snow on the lush green
meadows? Here the lambs were brown as
the soil—when there were any lambs. Yet.
Coffey and the rest of them declared that
inside a lifetime a whole crowd would be
making fortunes out of wool! Well, she
didn’t know if they would. Men were so
queer about the things they liked.
Anyway, this was a man’s country. But
she wasn’t going to be like some women
she knew'. Her mother had ahvays said a
true lady stuck to her husband through
thick and thin. So stick she w'ould, brew-
ing Coffey’s tea just as he fancied it; mak-
ing as far as possible in this extraordinary
place, a home for her sons when they came,
one from the schooner on which he worked,
the other from an inland job of well-sink-
ing.
Those crows —if only they would stop
caw-cawing and for ever sailing about over-
head! And how she longed to take off
her stays and the black-boned dress, with
its yards of trailing skirt! But had not her
mamma also impressed upon her that no
lady ever went without stays? She put
the thought resolutely aside. Something of
heroism clothed the smiling, cheerful way
in which she brought her husband’s tea
from the kitchen.
“I hear,” Coffey told her, noisily sipping,
“that Mrs. Bell has a son. That be the
fourth since she come up.”
“And miles away out in the ranges,” ex-
claimed Mrs. Coffey. “I call it real brave
the way these young wives come up here.
I’m glad I’m done with all that!”
She thought about Mrs. Bell’s baby as
she washed up; she never allowed the
natives to handle those precious china cups.
Probably the poor thing had only her hus-
band and a gin to help. After all, here
at the port, with ships coming and going
and people round and her babies behind
her, she was pretty well off. She felt more
braced to bear the heat, to endure the
burning thirst which increased the more she
quenched it from a water-bag hanging out-
side to catch the breeze.
Thinking of babies led to thoughts of
Sophie Gannet. How that child had loved
them!
It was months now since Mr. Fordyce had
taken her off in such gallant manner—she
had a stack of mail waiting for him in the
store, letters and newspapers and parcels.
She wondered how Sophie was getting on,
and hoped the child had not forgotten her
reading.
Of course, all sorts of rumors had flown
back to Cossack. Bella believed them; what
else could you expect of a girl like that?
Coffey had told her the men all said Bella
had meant to have Handsome Jack Fordyce
for herself. Certainly she had failed terribly
in looks before she went off in a great
hurry with the skipper of a brigantine bound
for Singapore ; Mark at the pub had sworn
like a blackfellow about it, and declared she
went out of pique because Sophie was
aboard Mr. Fordyce’s Sea Sprite. As for
Ma Gannet, the horrible old hag was gone
away south now—good riddance for Cos-
sack! —some said to open a wineshop in
Fremantle.
However that might be, Sophie’s pro-
blem occupied Mrs. Coffey a great deal.
She wondered what Mr. Fordyce meant to
do when he returned to port. Sophie would
be a grown girl soon, and it wouldn’t be
decent—for she absolutely refused even to
think what the rest of them openly said.
The year was getting on. Christmas in
a few weeks—Christmas with dry earth,
grass long burnt to wisps of straw, with bat-
talions of flies clinging stickily to every-
thing, and great white cockeye clouds roll-
ing across a brassy sky. It was high time
the last of the boats came down from the
North. Here they at least had a chance if
a willy-willy blew up; the creeks were
safer, and the crews would not be speared
by wild savages, as Coffey said they were
sure to be if they were wrecked higher up
the coast.
The veiy next morning, following on her
cogitations, she saw Mr. Fordyce walk into
the store!
He looked more noticeable than ever,
burned deep mahogany, his teeth flashing
ivory-white when he smiled his engaging
smile, and his lively blue eyes glinting like
Cossack Creek when the tide was at the
full. Taller and broader, too, Mrs. Coffey
thought, every inch the gentleman in spite
of his attire, a shirt open at the neck and
a pair of well-worn dungarees.
He swept off his hat to the good lady
with the same careless gesture that so long
before set Bella’s heart thumping, and led
eventually to much anguish and much joy.
“And how, may I ask, is Mrs. Coffey?”
he grinned. “Everyone,” he remarked with
emphasis—“everyone of my ship’s company
is in the best of health. And longing for
letters. I trust you have a big bundle for
us, Madam?”
A hundred queries sprang to the woman’s
lips, but she bustled off to fetch the mail.
He looked so mightily attractive, so burst-
ing, as it were, with some kind of secret
pleasure in life which he could not dis-
semble, that the sight of him made her heart
flutter —and she middle-aged and the mother
of sons! Surely he had not been just so
before! He always looked well, of course,
and the men liked his appearance no less
than the women. Good-natured affection
as much as anything else had earned the
soubriquet which he found greeting him in
the North quite as frequently as it had in
his former existence in Perth. But when, on
the occasion of his earlier visits, Mrs. Coffey
met the blue eyes of Mr. Fordyce she had
not immediately remembered the days of
her jmuth. Now, as she tumbled letters
and papers on the counter, amongst the
bacon and boots and tarpaulins littering
its surface, she found a clue to that exalted
expression which yet held a hint of laughter.
He was in love! Of course!
Mrs. Coffey blushed, recalling the tales
she had hitherto refused to believe. Her
heart fluttered.
John Fordyce only beheld a fat little
woman, red with the heat, as he thought,
of an uncompromising black dress. How
trussfed-up women were, to be sure! So
long had he been accustomed to gazing on
Sophie, supple and lithe in straight gar-
ments of white silk fashioned by her un-
skilled hands, that he had forgotten the
unnatural shapes into which the silly crea-
tures pushed themselves—and thought they
were beautiful! John lived in an age when
women cluttered both person and clothes
with elaborate and ungainly trimmings.
How exquisite he once thought Euphemia.
with her laces and bustles; her cumbersome
skirts and massive jewellery! So elegant!
So ravishing! So altogether a woman of
taste and refinement ! He knew, though he
must always admit her beautiful face, that
should he meet her now in the most fash-
ionable of toilettes, a vision of languor and
grace, with downcast eyes fluttering up in
coy invitation, flirting with scent of powder
and perfume of rose, he knew he would not
waste a second glance in her direction, so
completely had the innocence of Sophie,
the natural fragrance of her, the youth of
her, closed his eyes to studied artifice.
“I should be charmed, Madam,” said he.
collecting his mail, “if you would take tea
with us this afternoon aboard the Sprite.
Sophie is still very shy and will not come
ashore. I should like you to see her,” he
added on a more serious note. “Please do
not refuse. She frequently talks about your
kindness to her.”
Mrs. Coffey left the Sprite at sunset in a
dither of conflicting emotions. From the
moment she set eyes on Sophie, so much
taller, so rounded, grey eyes alight with a
happiness more vital than the carefree
joyousness of childhood, she guessed the
truth; she did not need the assurance of
their enamored looks—glances so fondly


“We changed to CHEVROLET
\
IkN
ms
because we wanted a thoroughly modern car.”
You have a right to expect every worth-while
improvement in each new car you buy. The
Chevrolet tradition is to give it. That, in a
nutshell, is one of the main reasons why so
many discerning motorists are changing to
Chevrolet—the 1932 models are so thoroughly
modern.
But what makes a car modern? It must be the
current production of the factory. It must in-
corporate the very latest features of motor car
design. This year, Chevrolet offers new beauty
in the bodies by Holden, greater power and
speed without increase to running costs, a
cushioned engine, Silent Synchro-Mesh gear
shifting—a feature hitherto found only on such
cars as Cadillac, La Salle and the big Buick
eights. Simplified Free-Wheeling, Down-draft
Carburettion, and an exclusive front-end
stabilising design—such a combination of
features has never before been found on any
car.
Chevrolet has always had a high resale value
and now with these ultra-modern big car
features an even higher resale value is assured.
Arrange for a trial run to-day—no obligation.
General Motors-Holden’s Ltd., Brisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
free wheeling, as simplified by
Chevrolet engineers, brings a new
thrill to low cost motoring. It
gives greater petrol, oil and tyre
mileage, and increases the life of
the engine. Its operation is
optional and is controlled by a
button located on the dash.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
CHEVROLET DEALER
imagined by lovers to pass unnoticed—to
inform her that rumor for once stood vin-
dicated.
She chattered volubly throughout the
meal served with much elegance upon a
cloth edged with fringe. A sumptuous re-
past ; sandwiches made from tinned sheep s
tongues, and cake from tins; biscuits ami
Babbet’s feathery scones, running with
melted butter. What matter if the butter,
too, came from a tin? Babbet knew how
to serve well when need arose; and Sophie,
with the guileless snobbishness of make-
believe, cocked her little finger, the essence
of refinement, as she poured the tea.
Tea finished, John made some pretext to
depart with Wilson, leaving woman and
girl alone.
“There is no need for me to ask if you
are happy, Sophie,” said Mrs. Coffey imme-
diately, eyeing Sophie with curiosity.
The girl hung her head and the blood
. poured into her cheeks. She made no reply,
sat staring into her lap at interlaced and
twisting fingers.
“There, there, child,” continued the
woman after a moment’s strained silence.
She leant forward to pat Sophie’s shoulder.
“I’m very glad to see it. Don’t you worry.
Go on being happy—you’re only young
once!”
Mrs. Coffey could hardly believe she
heard her own voice. What would her dear
mamma say to such sentiments? But, in
a sudden flash of rebellion against precepts
which for close on fifty years had guided
her very thoughts, she knew that in no
circumstances would that dear mamma —
who had most efficiently maintained what
she believed to be a gentility compatible
with the fashionable tailoring business her
husband so adequately managed—in no cir-
cumstances whatsoever would her dear
mamma have taken tea on a schooner. She
would have swooned at the thought. Had
she, by some miracle, indeed arrived at
such a pass and discovered herself the guest
of people—there was not the slightest good
in begging the point—of people living in
sin, she would have left at once. Yet here
sat her dutiful daughter, who thus far had
allowed her to govern even from the grave,
not only taking tea, but patting the wanton
on the shoulder!
What a world! Living in sin sounded
ugly; but Mrs. Coffey could see no ugliness
aboard the Sprite; she heard instead the
silver voice of romance finding echo in her
own middle-aged heart. How could this be
wrong? Sophie had sailed away a miser-
able waif and returned a loved and loving
mistress of both the Sea Sprite and her
captain. Gone away a thin scrap of- a child,
returned like a rosebud just unfolding. Mrs.
Coffey shook her head in perplexity. She
had stumbled on a problem too great for
her conventional mind. She could not say
what was right and what was wrong—she
could only feel glad to see the girl so
radiant.
But respectability had its way as she bade
John good-bye.
“Perhaps Sophie will land when you come
in next time, Mr. Fordyce,” said she. “Will
you bring her to visit me?”
“Thank you,” answered the man. They
were standing among the mangroves near
the landing. “I hope you think she looks
much happier?”
“Indeed I do!”
“I hardly need to say,” he hesitated a
moment. “Well, things are not quite like
I meant them to be. Sophie and I—l’m
very attached to her, Mrs. Coffey.”
“Yes, yes,” Mrs. Coffey spoke hastily. “I
do not need to be told. I’m sure you are
very good to her, and I could see she dotes
on you. She is a dear little girl—but, oh,
Mr. Fordyce, why do you not make an
honest woman of her? The Government
Resident could”
“Unfortunately, Madam, there is already
a Mrs. John Fordyce. Otherwise nothing
would give me more pleasure.”
“Oh!”
The fat little woman felt the sweat pour-
ing off her body in the effort it had cost
to make such plea on behalf of Sophie. The
information just received made matters
worse than ever. She was relieved to see
Coffey striding along to meet her, flick-
ing the flies away with a switch as he
walked, and glancing up every now and
then at deep slate and purple clouds. A
few drops of rain, big as marbles, splashed
on her face.
“Well, be sure to bring her,” she said
hurriedly, pushing aside the last thin cur-
tain of her conventional upbringing. “It
isn’t,” she thought to herself, “as if I have
daughters myself; I do like them both so
much. And he is one of the Fordyce
family!”
“Thank you,” said John again, and this
time he really meant it, because he thought
Sophie still cared what the woman thought
of her, not knowing that in her youth and
inexperience she cared for no other opinion
than his own.
“I have enjoyed my visit tremendously,
Mr. Fordyce,” vowed Mrs. Coffey as her
husband came up and the two men turned
to discussing the weather.
“They need the rain inland,” said the
storekeeper.
“I have no objections to a cockeye or
two,” replied John, “but I should not care
for a hurricane like the ones you anchor
the houses against.”
“Coffey,” interposed his wife, “I am really
too hot here—and the sandflies are a tor-
ment. Let us go home.”
John Fordyee sat up half the night an-
swering letters. He meant to be off with
the ebb in the morning. Early in the day
he had instructed Wilson to load the cargo
he had been requested to take with him
to boats already on the Western Grounds.
On the whole the pearlers were a hail-fellow-
well-met collection of hard-doers. They
helped each other considerably, it being a
point of honor never to refuse a man a free
trip out to his schooner if you were going
that way, and to carry also, without charge,
as much dunnage as you could. John had
met a crowd at the pub anxious to rejoin
their boats; and he had said the more the
merrier. He heard his guests arrive through-
out the night. Some noisily, some faceti-
ously, but Babbet possessed instructions
to see each was led to some vacant spot on
deck where he could unroll his blankets and
snore till dawn.
(IZ'o be continued next week.)
Jetty Nights.
Murmur of wind and water ; phantom-white
Sails of the luggers, wraith-like stealing
by;
The sleeping, moonlit bay; the breath of
night—
These have we loved in loving, you and I.
Or nights with slap and suck of rising seas
Sending their hungry music echoing
Through the long nave of piles, as, swift
a-wing,
The gulls sail, screaming, landward on the
breeze.
And after rain, when some damp evening
spreads
A white mist-mantle, so that, sky and sea
Meeting in dim embrace, the darkness weds
Those ancient lovers. Muffled and eerily
Sounds, in the fog-walled night, a lost gull's
cry ;
While, glimmering overhead, a spectre
moon
Swims in a mist of stars, as half a-swoon.
This have we loved in loving, you and I.
Or nights when summer lightning darts and
plays
Among the dim, domed clouds, and the
black roofs
Of Heaven shudder with sudden, aching
blaze,
Whilst ragk of wheels and whip and mad-
dened hoofs,
As the gods’ chariot hurtles down the sky,
Fades, as the thunder faint and fainter
peals.
And, muttering, dies away among the
hills.
These have we loved in loving, you and I.
These we have loved; and though the old
gods less
And less tread mortals’ Earth, I think
that still
The Nereids leave their pearl-pale palaces,
Their windless halls; and rising through
the chill
Sea-dusk, old bearded Proteus delights,
Throned on some silent island’s moonlit
sands,
To hear, as each cold courtier glittering
stands,
The stately symphony of summer nights.
W.A.
ALEXANDER TURNER.
A Sanctuary.
In this green place of trees,
Afar from seas that foam
And fret on callous coasts,
And weary-hearted folk
Who hither, thither roam
In fruitless quest of her,
Peace has her haunt and home.
Bequeathing unto all
A soft and soothing spell—
While tree and flower and fern
And blade and bird and stream
Of her charmed presence tell —-
Through shadow and through shine
Here, hidden, does she dwell.
Though burthened down by care,
Who hither strays shall find,
All strange and stealthily,
A tide of sweet relief
Wash through his heart and mind,
And all his troubles speed
Before a cleansing wind.
111-usage by the world
He shall forget, a while,
And (like a harried thing
Safe-sanctuaried at last
In some deep forest aisle)
Here cloistered, here at ease.
Find hope, find heart to . smile.
Lush grass beneath his feet,
Above him pine and palm,
In song and silence here
For aching wound and scar
He shall find sovereign balm,
And know the joy of peace,
The bliss of utter calm.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


YOU’LL STOP, ANYWAY, BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
SILVER
EDGED
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Insist on “RAY BEST OS”—with the Silver
Edge. Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
sdf
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
<M> r
The Renrut Quadruple is the most efficient hand-pump on
the market. It is the result of over 30 years’ experience
in pneumatic engineering.
This remarkable pump works on a quadruple compression
principle, and although smaller in diameter than many otheT
Dumps it delivers far more air per stroke —with the
minimum of effort.
RENRUT QUADRUPLE
Supplied with Push-on Connector.
Price, 60/- (With gauge, 5/- extra.)
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
WIIXIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD,,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England. i
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne,
sdf
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Phar Lap is no more. He died suddenly in
California last week. Tlie veterinary sur-
geons diagnosed colic as the cause; it is now
supposed that arsenic, blown from oak trees,
which had been sprayed to kill caterpillars
lodged on grass' that the chestnut grazed and
did the mischief. Phar Lap was bred in Maori-
land by Kain Bros, and bought at Trentliam
vearling sales in 1928 by 11. R. Telford on
behalf of D. J. Davis. Probably the best and
certainly the best advertised horse Australia
has seen, he was exceptionally well
bred on-both sides. Ilis dam, Entreaty, went
back through her sire, Winkie, and grandsire,
William the Third, to the mighty St. Simon,
and there is plenty of the same blood on the
other side, including a Carbine strain
through Spearmint, the sire of Night Raid s
dam. Sentiment. Phar Lap’s turf perform-
ances in Australia are too recent and well
known to particularise. He was a great
horse from six furlongs to three miles, and
his greatness was recognised by the Ameri-
cans, who showed generous hospitality to
horse, owner and trainer, and genuine regret
at the last.
Owners and trainers evidently regarded
the Warwick Farm races as a consolation-
prize meeting; there were 128 runners, and
only one, Aorangi, had won at Randwick.
Tliree-year-olds demonstrated that they were
a cut above the older horses, even in second-
and third-rate company. Rowan (8 to 1),
who was second to Jacko in the Novice
Handicap wherein the Doncaster winner
inaugurated his career of successes, ran
away with the first division of the Maiden
Handicap, the favorite, Wawina, being third,
along with Lanacian. Wawina and Flying
Johnnie (second) are also three-year-olds.
And Sweet Maggie (4 to 1), another of the
age, had just as easy a victory in the second
division from Samite (a four-year-old) and
Sir Ewan (three years).
Rowan is a chestnut gelding by Saltash,
sire of Strephon and Dominant, out ot
Bundie ; Sweet Maggie is by Magpie—Sweet
Lady. Further successes arc probably m
store for both, and the same may be true
of Circus Star, a rather taking sort ot
four-year-old mare by Spearhead—Circus
Queen, who proved a class above her oppo-
nents in the Novice Handicap. She was
runner-up to Rodondo in a seven-furlong race
at Randwick last month.
Rodondo was produced in a division of
the Glenfield Handicap. On Circus Star’s
showing he looked a fair thing, but lives
could be got and plenty of 9 to 2, thanks
to the backing of Lotus Lily—a filly owned
and trained by J. M. Cameron, by Chief
Ruler out of his pony Egyptian Flower —
and old Royal Tune. Lotus Lily’s day may
come, but it wasn’t Saturday; after a rather
indifferent start Rodondo came through to
win handsomely from Hampton Plane (12
to 1) and Lady O’Clare. He must be
accounted Manfred’s best son to date, and a
mile, at least, should not come amiss to
him. The other division went to Celtic (7
to 1), on whom Pike rode a nice race^
Another three-year-old was to the fore in
the April Handicap—Ethics (4 to 1), the
brother to Magnetic. There are probably 20
better three-year-olds than Ethics in Sydney
and Melbourne, but he is very shrewdly
"placed” by Jack King. This race provided
the most interesting finish of the day; six
of the nine starters fought it out closely.
Warneton and Lord Eudorus were placed
second and third respectively.
Dead Phar Lap's sister, Nea Lap, was a
starter in the Minto Handicap, and a lot
of people wish she had been kept in her stall.
Aorangi (7 to 1) prevailed after an excit-
ing set-to with another old stager, Killarney,
who was favorite.
* ❖ ❖ *
For Moorefield on Saturday :
Kogarah Stakes: Irish Eyes; next, Samite.
Flying Welter : Gloriole ; next, Cleave.
Anzac Relief Handicap: Rogerson; next,
Dilemma or Intrepid.
Carlton Handicap: Rodondo; next, In-
trepid or Celtic.
>•: $ %
Sinclair, the Williamstown trainer who
prepared Madstar for his Australian Cup
triumph, led off at “the Valley” last Thurs-
day by taking the April Hurdle with India’s
Hope, a winner at Williamstown on Easter
Saturday. Sinclair’s former apprentice. Alf
Marriott, rode the chestnut son of Lucknow
a well-judged race; but India’s Hope was
lucky to catch the judge’s eye, as Bright
Prince was pulling the leaders m stride
after stride when he toppled over m the mud
at the last flight. Bright Maid, the dam or
Bright Prince, captured an Australian
Steeplechase 10 years ago. She was a notori-
ously slow beginner, and her gelded son in-
herits that disability. By the way, Sinclair
has had Madstar “fired” and turned out for
a spell of six months.
The going at the Valley was very heavy.
A sharp storm on the previous night drenched
the course and flooded the sunken tote stand
on the flat, which was put out of commis-
sion. Flat punters had to make their
machine gambles on the hill, reached from
the flat by a subway. The Great Star geld-
ing Star Watch, which scored so nicely at
Williamstown on March 26, was produced
for the Juvenile Handicap, but being a long-
strider he could not act in the mud. Winner,
Ruach, belongs to and was bred by “S. A.
Rawdon,” whose colors were carried in Syd-
ney by Waterline. This sportsman, who
owns a big share of the “Age” newspaper,
and officiates on the Caulfield and Williams-
town committees, did not appreciate the
weights that Waterline got at Randwick, and
later in the Albury Cup. He is waiting to
see what impost is allotted before sending
the Maoriland-bred prad over to compete in
the Adelaide Cup.
First division of the Highweight Han-
dicap resulted in a well-deserved vic-
tory for Sonnica, owned and trained
by Frank Godby. Ray Wilson, pilot
of Johnnie Jason in the Sydney Cup, was
on Sonnica. He is riding in great form, and
triumphed over a lot of difficulties to get
Sonnica first past the post. She was fol-
lowed home by Royal Blaze and the versatile
Isocrates, who has won over hurdles twice
this season and may be a “National” hope.
Adelaide sportsmen on a visit to Mel-
bourne raged over the bad passage encoun-
tered by Gay Girl in the Trial Mile. They
blamed Duncan, on Affability, for the filly
being knocked back several lengths three fur-
longs from home. Gay Girl, a daughter of
King of Mirth, finished third, and ought
to have won. Her turn is bound to arrive
soon, but Melbourne punters will help them-
WHEN McINTOSh REOPENED THE STADIUM.
selves to any decent odds obtainable, and the
stable coup that was attempted on Thursday
cannot be worked so advantageously again.
!!= * * *
Ascot (Melbourne) gets a few Saturdays
in the year and makes the most of them ; a
£5OO stake was provided for one event last
Saturday. Substantial buildings have been
erected on the course, together with a com-
modious stand; in fact, there has been a
general metamorphosis. All V.T. and R.A.
galloping meetings are held there, Fitzroy
being closed and Richmond used only for
trotting, which will be transferred to Ascot
on Monday, May 2. A cinder track is being
laid down which will, it is claimed, be the
most perfect trotting rink in the Southern
Hemisphere. When those improvements are
effected and the tote is installed, Ascot pro-
bably will come under the jurisdiction of the
V.R.C., and may occasionally be patronised
by a few of the turf elite.
Credence, who has raced in Sydney and
Brisbane, captured the Five Hundred. He
has, been banned on V.R.C. courses for un-
ruliness at the post; this fault, combined
with a disbelief that he would see out a
mile, caused the grey son of Chrysolaus to
be allowed to start at Bto 1. He got off “on
the fly,” gaining a lead of four lengths,
which was doubled before two furlongs were
covered. Nothing could get near Credence
for the remainder of the journey. Rhine-
stone —who also is by Chrysolaus and a grey
—romped home in the' Trial Handicap at the
close of the day.
For Caulfield on Saturday:—
Khartoum Hurdle: Taciturn; next, Iso-
crates.
Glenhuntly Handicap: Shadow King;
next, Aleman.
:js # &
“Trentham”: Maoriland stipes have been
very active lately, and some of the training
and riding fraternity on the eastern side of
the Tasman are suffering from lacerated feel-
ings. The lid went on from the point of
view of these gentry at Ellerslie the other
day, when the Auckland stewards dumped
movie operators at different parts of the
course, and particularly at turns where funny
business might be anticipated. It sounds
fascinating. A slow-motion of a Johnny
Armstrong gradually getting a drag on would
be fascinating to watch.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Herb Bishop (9.0) was much stronger
than Billy McAlister (8.8) at Leichhardt
last Friday night. McAlister, however,
knew too much for the young Sydneysider,
and was well entitled to the decision that
went his way, though the ruling was badly
received.
* * *
“Tom Cribb”: The mountainous Camera
continues to draw gates that are the envy of
much better boxers. The other day he
crammed the Albert Hall, which holds about
8000 people, in a match with McCorkindale,
the Scottish heavy. Most of McGorkindale’s
time was taken up in keeping half a lap
ahead of the lumbering Italian, and by these
tactics he managed to go the full 10 rounds
without being obliterated. The verdict went
to Camera, "who is to meet the Canadian
negro Larry Gains on May 30.
Lurich is still supreme at Leichhardt.
Meeske (14.0) was tipped as certain to beat
the Russ (14.2) last Saturday night, and the
Australian heavyweight champion looked
more attractive, as well as effective, before
a figure-four body scissors made him sur-
render a -fall in round two. A toehold levelled
the score in the fourth. In the fifth the Rus-
sian got really rough and, putting a body-
press to work, won the deciding fall.
Footbrawl
“ Jolimount”: The Victorian Football
League opens its season on April 30 and will
stqige 18 sets of matches in all during the
year. The Association begins a week earlier
than its rival, and the pair will meet in the
annual charity match on King’s Birthday,
June 6. The League finals have been set
down for September 12, 17, 24 and October
1 at Melbourne Cricket Ground.
i{: sis #
“Fitzcray” : The Victorian Football League
has resolved to revert to the old rule regard-
ing kicking out of bounds, the abolition of
which has been made the cause of a lot of dis-
sension in the various States. The decision
will have to be ratified by the Council, on
which the other States are represented. As
some of these are opposed tot a return to the
old methods, the trouble, which has been
smouldering for some time, may blaze up
again. The old rule, slightly modified at its
readoption by Victoria, penalises a player
kicking or forcing the ball out of -bounds
without its having touched another player.
The free kick is given to the nearest
opponent.
* * * *
“Gate”: The two Australian Rugby
Leagues are girding up their loins in anti-
cipation of the arrival of the Englishmen in
May. The tourists open in Sydney against
a Metropolitan side on May 28, and will
play 18 matches in all in N.S.W. and Queens-
land, including three Tests, the first in Syd-
ney on June 6. The Queensland tour will
take the travellers as far north as Cairns
on this occasion. They will play in Sydney
again on July 9 against N.S.W., the fund
game being at Wagga, on July 20, alter
which the team leaves for Maoriland. M.L.
has asked N.S.W. to send over a coach to
be in Maoriland by July 19. He will receivi
all his expenses and a bonus of 139, bis
job ending on August 20. The N.S.M.
League will look over applications on
April 19.
“Cash Amateur” : For a long time past the
N.S.W. country League football clubs have
provided lucrative billets for metropolitan
players acting as player-coaches. Up till
recently a man with an inter-Statc reputa-
tion could draw a double-figure salary, often
with board and lodging thrown in. lhe.
money came from the big gates drawn by
the frequent “cup” matches which were con-
stantly waged to the accompaniment of much
betting and bash between rival centres. Now
the good thing is petering out, clubs realising
that the game is not worth the candle.
Wagga, one of the leading distributors ot
largesse in the past, has decided to rule out
all paid players. Other clubs are cutting
the money offered down to chicken feed.
“Reformed Wig”: Footballers, who are
generally able to find all the trouble they
require in their own sphere, rarely resort,
to the law courts. It comes, then, as a sur-
prise to hear that the ’bailers of Temora
have resolved to sue the N.S.V . _ Lugbi
League, or rather to apply for an injunction
against that body. Recently the League was
called on to decide who should hold the
Maher Cup, Temora or Tumut. It found
for Tumut. In consequence the fiery cross
is being .sent round—or rather its modern
equivalent, the hat —and all the local nobility
and gentry are being called upon to throw
in for the good cause.
# # * •
“Glenelg” : The Rugby Union, which seems
now established in Victoria and West-
ralia, is pushing forward its pickets. A
move has been made to establish a branch
of the union in Adelaide, where there are
said to be good prospects of recruiting play-
ers from the many residents who do not
profess the national code. The English game
was established in Victoria before Australian
football was invented, but though after many
vicissitudes it is fairly flourishing again, it
has never captured popular imagination like
its Australian contemporary. So far as
the writer can recall Adelaide has never
known the blessings of the world-wide ama-
teur code, and Norman Arnold, late of Syd-
ney and Melbourne, ivho is pioneering the
venture, may have to plough a pretty lonely
furrow at first.
“Stand Off” : A meeting of great moment
to Australasian Rugby takes place in Maori -
land this week, when the All Blacks will con-
sider a motion to cut adrift from the Rugby
Union and to enroll in the Rugby Football
Commission, which is not yet a. constituted
body, though draft laws for its formation
have been drawn up. The real bone of con-
tention is the refusal to permit Dominion
unions a voice in international Rugby con-
trol ; Scotland and Ireland have prevented
it. The Australian Union is a spectator of
the shindy. Repudiation of the Rugby
Union might mean a split in the Rugby
world. If tliqt happens Australia and Maori-
land will probably be left to their own de-
vices, for it is certain that South Africa,
almost as conservative as Scotland, will
refuse to break with the international board.
* * * *
“Fly Half”: Some of the new rules which
the International Rugby Board have insisted
Australia and Maoriland shall adopt are
giving the referees a headache, especially
that relating to the new scrum formation,
which is to be 3-4-1 in lieu of the Australian
3-2-3 of other days. As M.L. has renounced
the wing-forward and resolved to follow the
former Australian formation, a further
change will not be welcomed by the All
Blacks. Another of the changes insisted on
is the adoption of the European rule that
players may not leave the field at half-time.
N.S.W. has sensibly decided on a “local”
rule permitting five minutes off. In view
of the hard grounds and warm weather,
which are often accompaniments of football
in Australia, the decision is a wise one.
s|s •i' H*
“Inside Right”: It is possible that Aus-
tralia may have another visit from a Chinese
Soccer side. It is some years since this
country was first invaded by the Celestials,
who were all students of modern Chinese
universities and played a fast and bright
game of Soccer. The crowds that thronged
to their opening match in Sydney to see a
sort of rare show were agreeably surprised
and the tour was subsequently well patron-
ised, the Chinese population also being much
uplifted by the prowess of their country-
men. As the suggested team has already
arranged to tour Java it is not unlikely that
the Australian Soccer authorities will bring
it the rest of the trip.
(Continued on nesut page.)


d
The COST of are-
tread is measured in
MILES!
YOU don’t buy retreads by the pound, you pay
for the mileage you receive from them.
When more and more motorists insist on Advanx every year —therje
is a reason.
Advanx compounds its own rubber —manufactures its own
vulcanising machinery and operates a retreading plant
capable of turning out 500 retreads a day.
The reason why motorists insist on Advanx is because they
know that they receive long, satisfied mileage from their
retreads.
Take your worn tyres to your nearest Advanx Dealer and
know what long, trouble-free mileage really means!
AN AUSTRALIAN I
INDUSTRY TWAT
LEADS TW£ WORLD l
Branches Everywhere
Bertl*We didn't hwe our usu^l.
GAME OF GOLF THIS WEEK''
Gert », ''''Disappointed'?''''
BERT’/VeS I FEEL AS IF I
MISSED SOMETHING,
Gert vou would have
Missed more had we plaveoV
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray” : The old scrap _ between the
hoary Victorian Football Association and its
sefpent-toothed offspring, the League, still
flourishes. Recently a conference was held
for the umpteenth' time with the . idea of
finding some basis for amalgamation. It
seems to have rather aggravated the split,
for the League delegate in his report of the
pow-wow said that though the Association
heads had denied the existence of a pact to
prevent the clearance of good Association
players to the League, there could be no
doubt that something of the sort existed. The
indignation of the League when it got this
information was reminiscent of the wrath
of a cattle-duffer on discovering that his
intended victim had fenced his herds round
with barbed-wire and was defending them
with a gun.
$ * * Sfc
“T.S.”: S.A. Football League, which has
always made a point of having a prominent
lawyer as president, has re-elected O'llal-
loran, K.C., for the seventh time, with Eric
Millliouse, also of the profession, as “vice.”
* * * *
F. Marlow, secretary of the South Aus-
tralian Football League, celebrates his com-
ing of age as an official this season. In 1894,
as a delegate of the South Adelaide club,
he started many reforms which have since
borne good fruit. An ardent supporter of
the game in the country, lie has recently
been responsible for the revival of country
week, while among his important perform-
ances was the persuading of the Australian
Council to alter the rules with a view to
preventing the promiscuous transfer of
players. He is also an uncompromising-
advocate of the old playing rules and pro-
minent in the agitation to revert to them,
especially the out-of-bounds and handball
laws.
* * $ *
“Birkenhead Park”: The British Rugby
internationals ended in a win for Ireland,
which took all three matches, scoring 43
points to 26 against, though the match with
Wales was a tough one, only two points
separating the pair. Ireland was long over-
due for a win. Wales was second with
two wins, and England scored a single vic-
tory over pointless Scotland, taking the Cal-
cutta Cup as well. France has dropped out
of the tourney.
$ . #
“Amateur Pro.”: The Sydney press had a
lot to say the other day about the likeli-
hood of Steggall, the crack Queensland Rugby
Union back, coming to Manly, a Sydney
club, a billet having been found for him.
Later it was announced that Steggall will
remain in Queensland. In this connection,
purists might note the Rugby Union rules
as to professionalism. The first of them
denounces as an act of professionalism by an
individual “asking, receiving, or relying on
a promise, direct or implied, to receive any
monetary consideration whatever, actual or
prospective; any employment or advance-
ment, any establishment in business, or any
compensation whatever for playing football,
etc.”
Racquet and Bawl
“Mt. Eden”: The Australian Davis Cup
players gave a big crowd a good run for its
money in the exhibition matches against a
team in Auckland, llopman succumbed to
Sturt, but the other Australians won the
double and singles matches in which they
Were engaged, Sproule’s defeat of the M.L.
hope, Stedman, being noteworthy. Honolulu
will be the next stamping ground.
* H* H*
The American Davis Cup team to meet
Canada in the opening round of the Ameri-
can zone on April 28 comprises Vines,
Shields, Van Ryn and Allison, Lott having
been unable to turn out. Canada’s contin-
gent will be Wright, Nunns, Martin and
Rainville, and the match will be played on
the Chevy Chase courts at Washington
(D.C.).
❖ ❖ *
“Double B.” : After all McGrath is not to
bo dragged away from his education to play
at Wimbledon. It is not that the lad is not
willing to go, or that qualms of conscience
have overtaken those prepared to launch a
raw schoolboy on what is to all intents and
purposes a professional athletic career. The
facts are that “McGrath’s guide and mentor”
finds he can’t make the journey, and without
him there is not half enough money in the
hat to finance the project.
* * * Jfc
“Hotham”: The Australian tennis heads,
who revere the financial side of the game
almost as much as the sporting one, and are
known to have hoggins o’ brass stowed
away, are overjoyed with the clean-up from
(the Australian championships in Adelaide,
which panned £1356 clear. The balance
sheet of the Japanese tour cannot be final-
ised until some of the States concerned
have sent in complete statements. So far
it is certain that, after paying the Austra-
lian body £3OO for the second Test against
the Nipponese at Perth, the local lads
pouched no less than £629. Brisbane made
a profit of £262 for the first two days of
the Japanese tour in Queensland, and the
result of the third day is yet to come. There
was no Test match in this case.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Quark”: The out-back crows have not
been slow to spot the opening of the official
golf season and have, by all accounts, brought
off some clever coups on the country courses.
One paid dearly for his fondness for the
royal and antient the other day at Junee.
He got away with a new ball driven from
the first tee. The golfer, evidently no nature
student, went home and got his gun prior
to driving off again. When the crow —
which must have been a very young and in-
experienced one—swooped down again, it was
shot. , Not everyone will condone the execu-
tion of the fowl. I don’t know if there is
a professional at Junee, but if I were one
there I should have a soft spot in my heart
for corvine ball-collectors. Given a fair
club membership and a good mob of crows,
the trade in new golf balls at the profes-
sional’s shop would look after itself.
* * * *
“Hotham” : Golfers will note with interest
that Dunlops are erecting a plant in Mel-
bourne for the manufacture of golf balls
specially suited to our conditions. The
special ball will be similar in all respects
to the widely-known Dunlop ball, and the
cover will be carefully designed to withstand
abrasion and cutting. The news of the in-
novation will be welcomed by players on out-
back courses, where imported balls _ some-
times fail to stand up to the severe conditions.
* -l' ❖ *
“Sandringham” : Susie Tolhurst and Cecily
Lascelles, who are to represent Australia in
the British women’s open championship in
May, will have a tough lot of opponents to
tackle at Staunton Sands in Somerset, where
the tourney is to take place. The Americans,
who have never yet been able to take this
British title, are going for the gloves this
time. In addition to Glenna Collet (Mrs.
Vare), five times American champion, there
will be Helen Hicks, Yankee champion in
1931, Maureen Orcutt, and Virginia Van Wie.
The last three are able to rank as juniors,
and as such will take place in an inter-
national match with England for the Curtis
Cup, a trophy given by a party of American
associates. Of the Australians, Susie Tol-
hurst has been three times Australian cham-
pion. Cecily Lascelles is a noted match
player, and in the last two years has defeated
her fellow-tourist for the Royal Melbourne
club title.
* * *
The “Australian Golf and Tennis Maga-
zine” is the latest addition to the list of
Australian publications dealing with sport,
Each section is under control of a different
editor, and both contain matter of high
quality. The outstanding features of the
first issue are a sketch of Ivo Whitton’s golf-
ing career and an article on the stance by
Bobby Jones. The illustrations are numer-
ous and excellent.
rl U 1
C.ar ana
“Tenakoe” : Norman Smith, who left Aus-
tralia some months ago to beat the world’s
r ?f r s Hr^fH^i ao fol ai c d orSn;
to sni? him So ie C the Li been on
the beach that it hacf to be yanked back to
Auckland the other day for an overhaul, the
S c? iSh c t oidiHoo e s en iu XP th t e d, defici n te
set up lust conditions in t e delicate
machinery. Smith is having a new wind-
screen fitted, his difficulty with the original
one when making the 10-mile record since
bettered by Malcolm Campbell being given
as a reason Two of Smith s friends have
evolved the idea of a revolving screen duven
by an electric-motor. If this pusses the
tests it will be fitted to the car, which will
be back to the beach by April 18, when the
Kaitaia Beach should be favorable. If it
Lsn t successful, and the beach isn t favor-
able, the attempt may be postponed on
present indications, probably to the Greek
Kalends.
v , ” , ’
‘ Whizz : One Australian at least will
figure in that British 1000-mile motor race at
Brooklands (B. 6/4/’32). This is Joan
Richmond, of Victoria, who was one ot the
large party that drove “overland” through
Darwin and Asia to Europe to take part in
the Monte Carlo rally. The Brooklands
event will occupy June 3 and 4, the cars
being locked up at night. The Australian
driver will have as an offsider Mrs. T. H.
Wisdom, a notable British woman driver, who
specialises in hill-climbing events. Each will
take a three-hour turn at the wheel of their
Riley car, the first time that two of their
sex have attempted such a feat.. Both . are
undergoing special technical instruction;
competitors must be mechanics as well as
drivers. If the pair win, mere man is in
for a hot time. The opposition includes such
super-motorists as Ivaye Don, Henry Birkett
and George Eyston.
* * * *
“Formulae”: Reliability and similar motor
competitions have been in abeyance in N.S.W.
fer some time, so the revival of the always
popular events by the N.S.W. Light Car
Club recently has met with gratifying re-
sponse. The second outing drew 27 entrants,
and three classes were subjected to test in
reliability, hill climb, half-mile acceleration,
and flying half-mile. In A-class, up to 1000
c.c., li. Althouse (Morris) scored the possible
with 375. In B-class, up to 2000 c.c., D
Irons (Riley) recorded 352.0 points out of
375. In the associate class L. Burrow's
(Vauxhall) headed the list with 366.6 points.
Tiie trials organised by the L. C. Club are
not con fi n °d t° members, and the “associate
class” is also open to non-members.
Miscellaneous
“Backwoodsman”: The mighty clan of
bowlers which gathered from all parts of
S;
awav The star turn Jas the
Angles, which amounted to an All-Australia
c i iam pi ons hip. The winner proved to be
j£ eers> Waverley who beat Harrison, of
gjjore, 31-30 after a neck-and-neck go
g 0 exc iting as to almost induce each’individual
g co tsman present to offer to set them up
for the cr “ wd . How close the match was
can be geen f rom the fact that there was
never m ore than a two margin between the
• throughout the game,
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Great preparations are being
made j n Melbourne for the inter-State row-
d alld gcu ifi n g championships on the lower
Y £ rra on April 23. The race for the King’s
Cup will be over a 2J-mile course and the
sculling event the same distance. Of the
crews, Westralia, which has been doing its
10 m ji cs da i] y f or some time, is already in
Melbourne with South Australia and Tassy.
Queensland will be represented by the Mary-
borough club crew, said to be one of the
heaviest boated in Bananaland. Mosman
clu b will represent N.S.W., and on its recent
performances should start a strong favorite,
though the Westralians like their chances,
The Victorians, holders of the Cup, have
been disappointing the critics since getting
irdo their racing-boat,
* * ’ * *
“Aigburth”: Lancashire county, which
b as long been a home from home for Aus-
tralian cricketers, has signed up a pair of
the breed for the coming season, Horrocks
and Bennett. Horrocks, once of Westralia,
fig Ured in the Red Rose side last year, and
W as fourth in the county averages with
30.11 and a highest of 100 n.o. against Notts.
In all first-class matches he averaged 34.40.
Bennett, who hails from Port Kembla
(N.S.W.) and played one game with in-
different success for the Ma State against
the West Indies, was engaged all last Eng'
lish season with the Lancashire second eleven,
and has evidently justified his promotion.


Amusements,
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: E. J. Tait, Frank Tait, J. H. Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
CRITERION: BLUE ROSES.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.15.
Ernest C. Rolls’ Greatest Revue,
BRIGHT SIDE UP.
GUS BLUETT and JENNIE BENSON.
Now in its sixth Week in Sydney.
7 cT WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: BITTER SWEET,
First production in Australia.
POWER OF THE PENNY
How many realise, genuinely and understandingly realise, the
power of the penny?
The old exhortation, “Take care of the pennies and the pounds
will take care of themselves,” has more significance than most
of us realise.
Think it out —better still, try it out —the steady, sincere con-
servation of the small coins, the proper practical appreciation
of the value of small things, and their cumulative qualities.
Save the pennies, and the pounds, too, if you can, but let
the Savings Account take care of them for you.
That is the better way by at least 3 per cent, per annum.
famonwealtl) Savings JBank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
.Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA
(In forma pauperis).
No. 472 of 1931.
Between MYRTLE DOROTHY FEDER Plaintiff
And GEORGE ERNEST FEDER (known as
George Ernest Fader) Defendant.
To GEORGE ERNEST FEDER formerly of Orroroo
South Australia.
NOTICE IS HEREBY' GIVEN to George Ernest
Feder whose last known address was at Orroroo South
Australia that a Writ has been issued in the Supreme
Court of South Australia, in an action in which his
wife Myrtle Dorothy Feder claims an order for
divorce on the ground of his desertion for five years
and upwards and in such action his wife intends to
ask for an order for custody of the child and for
costs and if George Ernest Feder desires to be
heard in opposition to the claim for any of such
orders he must file an appearance in the office of
the Master of the Supreme Court of South Australia
within forty-five days of the publication of this
advertisement otherwise orders may be made against
him in his absence.
CHARLES ARTHUR SANDERY,
Victoria Buildings, Victoria Square, Adelaide,
Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
Rear-Admiral Dalglish was last week duly
introduced to what is left of the Australian
fleet; and thereafter, in between calls and
return calls and shaking down in his new
quarters, he set out to find whether there
was anything in Sydney he could remember.
In a manner of speaking Broken Hill made
him an admiral. Dad was district surveyor
at L>ubbo, and Dad’s friend Willie Jameson
was a staff surveyor who had been sent out
beyond the Darling to do a long job. While
he was there the men on Mt. Gipps formed
a syndicate to tickle a mineral outcrop on
the run, and Willie Jamieson was allowed
to put his chief Dalglish in for a share too.
They paid in 10s. a week to sink a shaft —
and that was how Broken Hill started. And
that, too, was how young Dalglish became a
rear-admiral. The family took its fortune
off “home” almost at once, and the boy never
saw his native land again until the other
day.
The Rear-Admiral may still find one mem-
ber of that early syndicate in these parts—
Philip Charley, now of Richmond, then a
youngster gaining experience on Mt. Gipps.
They say that if the traveller drinks the
waters of the Nile, some day he will return
to its banks. “Aida” has the same compelling
power. Those who have once heard it return
again and again, and this Letter wonders
how much of the magnetism is due to Mari-
ette, the little French archaeologist who
breathed the breath of life into these mum-
mies of Memphis and Thebes, till, king and
warrior and princess, they walked again their
ways, with pride, jealousy and stormy love
weaving their own tragedy, inevitable, com-
plete !
In “Aida” the scenes are blazing with so
much color —golds, Nile greens, cobalt blues,
rose, whites, purples, splashes of crimson—
that any audience must look drab by com-
parison. At Saturday night’s performance
the women in circle and stalls looked pallid
and devitalised in the pastel tones, the
flowered chiffons, the black laces and moires
of the moment. Especially was this so in
contrast with the triumphal scene where.
Rhadames returns from victory with his train
of captive Ethiopians. Hero the storm-
tossed Aida brought her mossy-green robes;
there stood Amneris, her towering head-dress
of turquoise ostrich plumes seeming to chal-
lenge the blue of the sky seen through and
above the white and gold arches of Thebes.
Here were dancing girls in Nile green;
there among the populace a veil of scarab
green deepened the tone, the brass of trumpets
gave back the hard light of the day, palms
towered moveless in the breathless heat. The
priests in their white and gold stood impec-
cable and pitiless; more and more Nile green
was worked into the pattern. The populace
crane too far and step beyond the boundaries.
Efficient soldiery (perhaps Superintendent
Mackay is a reincarnation) push them back.
Everybody bursts into song or dance or both.
The dark Aida seems to grow here and there
slightly more blonde in the turmoil of pas-
sions, especially when with papa’s arrival
she finds the dice even more heavily loaded
against her. Are we in the Thebes of slaves
and chariots and foot messengers, thousands
of years ago? Are we in the Sydney of
electric trams and the greatest bridge in the
world? The curtain goes down. How drab
everything looks! What about an iced
squash ?
It was in going and coming along the
back of the circle the clothes of the women
took on significance. Yice-regals were in the
middle front of the dress-circle, whose wide
railing served as a platter for pink and blue
posies. Pale pink satin sheathed Lady Game.
Lady Goodwin, wife of the retiring Gov-
ernor of Queensland, shimmered in blues,
and her frock boasted epaulettes of tulle.
Little Rosemary Game, all pinks and blues,
was among the applauders. Small girls were
scattered throughout the audience. A little
Le Soci'f drank in the music, and an iced
drink in the interval. Mrs. Norman Lowe,
cloaked in silver tissue, brought daughter
Noel; and several starry-eyed little Italian
girls, black satin hair bunched up with pink
or blue ribbons, were among the minority
who could follow the words of the libretto.
The Mervyn Finlays were punctual. Mrs.
Finlay’s pearls and black lace called a second
glance; so did May Sheehan’s lily-leaf-green
kid gloves that toned in with the lining of
the bustle bow of her black taffetas. Ermine
and pgarls and white chiffons spattered witli
great red leaves were brought by Mrs. Charles
Lloyd Jones, Mayoress Walder’s milk-white
satins were worn with a short-caped coat
of black velvet that, like the political situa-
tion, had a silver lining. Mrs. Bertie Kelly
was there with daughter Beatrice; the rosy
glow of pink enfolded both. Mrs. Kelly’s
frock was crusted with diamente and pearl;
the sleekness of velvet sheathed her daughter.
Australian song-girl Molly de Gunst was
near the front of the circle, watching in-
tently. She is the next Aida to be starred.
With her sat Margaret Chalmers in blue,
and on the other side of the circle Agnes
Caspers in cosmos-pink. These two have
served as accompanist and coach to the
chorus. Claude Kingston and Charlie West-
macott hovered in the background. Mrs.
E. J. Tait and Dorothy sat in one box. Mrs.
Hubert Fairfax added a splash of gold and
Mrs. A. Edward purple drapes to the color
scheme. Palest lilac chiffons with sleeves
ruched early and flowing late were Mrs. F. J.
Davy’s contribution, Italy’s Consul-General
and Donna Grossardi with daughter Adrienne
made a notable group; here diamonds and
pink and black laces gleamed. Mrs. Roland
Foster wore a beautiful old paste brooch,
very French in design, on a background of
black velvet. Mrs. Wunderlich, Mrs. A. C.
Godhard and Mrs. A. E. Grace, indomitable
first-nighters, were among the well dressed.
Paling’s Mr. and Mrs. Dibley, Irene Ander-
son, the Judge Gordon couple—simply hun-
dreds of everybody. Somebody whispered
that Mr. Lang was there. Great craning of
necks —but no Mr. Lang. At the end there
must have been a lorry-load of laurel wreaths
distributed; but the display of flowers was
not so good as at many an amateur show.
There was a stir on Garden Island on
Sunday when the band from the Australia
was called out to honor a double christening.
The young men who were the cause of the
spirited scene were Roger Neville Haine
Currey, son of Lieut.-Commander Currey, and
David Loftus Cant, whose father also is a
lieutenant in the Navy. Both fathers are
attached to the Penguin, and if the two
youngsters don’t grow into men of war
there’s nothing in early environment; they
were borne into church through companies
of white-clad sailors. A party followed on
the Penguin.
We used to call them Shanks’s ponies, a
trusty pair in emergency. The moderns
boil it down to hiking. A Brisbane girl,
Daryl Tindale, who worked off youthful
energy in welfare work up north, persuaded
her family to let her try her hand at similar
work on the other side. As an interlude
she’s going hiking with a pal, Miss Beetson,
of the Y.W.C.A. Scandinavia and Germany
are on their road maps. The dark-eyed lass
left Sydney in a recent Orient liner. Mother,
by the way, gave up a medical course at
Sydney Uni. in the years ago for Mr. Tin-
dale and matrimony.
After eight years in Italy, Beatrice Kelly,
the elder daughter of the Bertie Kellys, has
returned an artist whose etchings show
strength and
whose paint-
ings have a
nice color-
sense. Most
of her sub-
jects are, of
course, foreign
to Australia, as
Beatrice and
her mother
have lived so
long in Flor-
ence, holiday-
ing in Eng-
land and in
t h e beauty
spots of
Europe. The
artist is a
slim girl with
a pale face and
red-gold hair.
Her father and
younger sister,
Patricia, are musicians ; her mother has writ-
ten several novels; but so far she is the
only one of the family who has expressed
her artistic self in color. Her show opens
to-morrow at the Grosvenor Galleries.
Dorothy Welding made the picture.
Not only are the works of the painters
and etchers shown in the Macleod Gallery;
tall glass cases prison the rich blues and
greens of pottery, the fires of opals, the dull
glovr of brass, the white gleam of silver.
These cases are an exhibition within an
exhibition, and contain some of the best out-
put of our Arts and Crafts workers. Here
are specimens of the potter’s art that would
grace any collection. Ada Newman and Vi
Eyre show originality and great observation
of nature in their fine modelling—of frogs
adorning a garden-piece by Vi Eyre, of
locusts about a bowl from Miss Newman’s
hands. These ladies dig their own clay,
handle it, inlay it and fire it. Ethel Atkinson
does the same, and the rich blue-greens of
her vase with their native-flower designs,
make a striking splash of color. Rhoda
Wager shows some fiery opals in finely
wrought hand-made settings. From pen-
dant, earrings, brooch and ring, they dart
their vampire fires, seeking to ensnare the
more steady gaze of Mrs. Sweetapple’s spoons
and the brasses of G. E. Mann. In this
glass-house the workers of the Arts and
Crafts Society display a comprehensive
exhibit, which includes hand-woven linen,
silk and woollen scarves and bags, beads,
tiles, leather work, carved tortoiseshell and
painted china.
Gladys Owen, in spite of all the flutter
of her swiftly approaching wedding with
John D. Moore, has found time to hang the
Macquarie Galleries in Bligh-street with a
collection of water-colors of Sydney’s streets
and bays. The drawing is good, the coloring
delicate, and in these pictures romance and
actuality go hand in hand. Still another
representative tea-drinking was staged in the
artist’s honor last week. This time the
Sailors and Soldiers’ Mothers, Wives and
Widows’ Association were her hostesses, and
presented her with their good wishes, a cry-
stal rosebowl, and some beautifully worked
hankies. President Mrs. May Mercer spoke
of the notable war-work and Red Cross work
done by Gladys and her mother, and accom-
panied her eulogy with a handful of red
roses.
The New Repertory Society has discov-
ered a fresh playwright for Sydney. She is
Alon Hynes,
the subject of
this picture,
and she wrote
“Black Bond-
a g e,” pr o-
duc e d re-
cently at St.
James’s Hall.
This carries
on the story
o f “W hit e
Cargo,” the
play in which
Leon Gordon
gripped Syd-
ne y. Vera
Simonton, the
author of
“Hell’s Play-
ground,” the
novel on which
“White Cargo”
is based, is
said to have
been greatly impressed with Miss Hynes’s
effort. Another Alon Hynes play, “A Child
is Born,” is now in rehearsal.
These poets will have children who grow
up. Old-time Bulletin writer Oliver Noel
Gillespie, these days much too solemn a busi-
ness man of Wellington (M.L.) to even flirt
with the muse, gave eldest daughter Moiiie
away in matrimony recently and thereby
acquired as son-in-law Arthur Sutherland, ot
Palmerston North. Mollie is a dark-haired,
sonsy lass, and as a small girl was the centre
of much of father’s verse in his slim book
“The Road to Muratai.” A decade or so ago
the too-soon-dead Boyce Bowden, Bartlett
Adamson (now growing health and oranges
up Penshurst way) and O.N. were a trio
of poets that not all the winds of Welling-
ton could blow apart.
Elly Beinhorn has been the girl of the
week, and why not? -She flew all the way
from Berlin to look us over, and apparently
we please her, for she has never stopped
smiling since she landed at Mascot. She
has visited the Governor, been the guest of
the Mayoral Walders, has officiated at our
principal industry, the State lottery, has
gone shopping, and has already given two
lectures in aid of the Sydney Hospital. She
has a quick brain, this German girl; it shows
in the changing lights in her clear eyes, in
the voice with its many inflections, in the
swift movements of her hands. Her hair is
cut to show the shape of her head (not a
square one), and the frock in which she
appeared with most regularity was cut to
show the line of her throat. Not without
her vanities, Elly, although she travels with
a light wardrobe.
• Her description of her first solo flight
across the Alps drew hundreds to the Aero
Club’s exhibition. Flying men were there
in great force. Everybody paid a shilling
to go in, and you got a picture of the dash-
ing fraulein but no chair. The heat was
intense; two people fainted and were car-
ried from midstream to the outer edges of
the crowd. So quick is the flying girl that,
just before her woman-listener swayed and
collapsed into a neighbor’s arms, she looked
down in consternation and paused in her
speech. She has the Continental way of
saying “Yes” on a rising inflection at the
end of her sentences; at other times she
gropes for a word, explains what she is try-
ing for, then appeals to her listeners: “What
is the word I want?” When a listener sup-
plies it she smiles radiantly, leaps at it
and continues. But her English vocabulary
is so extensive that she makes little jokes
and keeps her audience in a gentle bubble of
laughter.
In one respect at least the Australian girl
in opera can more than hold her own with
the imported songbirds, and that is in figure
and general upstandingness. Some of the
Italian prima donnas, though they have eyes
soft as doves and milk-soft skin, are de-
cidedly on the plump side. Lina Paliughi, the
Lucia of the new company, is of a round-
ness not unlike that of Toti dal Monte—
probably a vase of comfortable flesh keeps
the coloratura voice liquid and golden.
Cesarine Yalobra, the Madame Butterfly of
the season, is with one group putting up
at St. James’s Plats, while others of the
principals are at Hampton Court. A Cre-
morne girl who was the high-priestess in
“Aida’’ was Nora Mack, niece of brilliant
Louise and Amy. Mary MacCormick, daugh-
ter of Judge MacCormick, of Auckland, is
raising her soprano in the chorus; so is
Effie Lynch, another Maorilander.
You can always trust Tom Henley and
his lady to make the homely appeal. So this
Letter wasn’t surprised to get a card invit-
ing it to a wedding party: Tom and his lady
were celebrating the wedding of the National-
ist and All-for-Australia groups by a Foci” I
and a dance in the Stratlifield Town Hall.
This Letter confesses it didn’t go, but will
swear, all the same, that it was all very
hearty and fervent.
Maisie Swann, who proved her mettle witli
the Pickwick players as Clemency in
“Cynara,” has been annexed by J. C. Wil-
liamson. By now she is down in Melbourne
rehearsing for “Whistling in the Dark.” Be-
fore the budding Tempest flew south .she and
chum Joyce Beazley. beckoned all their
friends to a dance at No. 11 Onslow Gar-
dens. Red roses, black candlesticks and
green candles cheered the supper-table.
Maisie Swann’s white taffetas were long, and
wore a bustle bow and t-iny puff sleeves,
while Joyce Beazley was like a bright bird
in royal-blue chiffons lit with diamente. Mrs.
Beazley and Mrs. Swann, the latter very
up to date with her mid-Victorian frock of
black moire, saw to it that the party slid
along on ball-bearings, and Barbara Read,
from Boggabri, was the night’s deb. She
wore soft green satins and carried a tight
little fragrant posy.
Brisbane’s gaieties :
Forty of Lady Goodwin’s friends clubbed together
to give her a Queensland sapphire surrounded by
diamonds and mounted on platinum, forming a clasp,
with a pink suede booklet holding the names of
those who made the gift.
The much-prayed-for rain fell upon the crowd of
guests who went to Parliament House for the farewell
party to the Goodwins. The v.-r. pair were received
by the Premier and Mrs. Moore, who presented a
bouquet of pink gladioli, roses and caladium leaves.
Love-in-a-mist blue satin was worn, by her Ex. Mrs.
Moore chose lido blue with squirrel fur. A musical
programme was given by Pat and Bob Pike, Harry
Borrodale reciting. The Blair lady was in black silk
mousseline with touches of gold; Mrs. Green chose
white with a pink design ; the Macartney lady wore
black lace, her large ostrich feather fan being tinted
in blue ; Mi's. Niel Macgroarty wore pearl and black.
Sir John was presented with a case of pipes by the
Ministry, and a beautiful table was the gift of the
National Association. Lady Goodwin also received
a gift.
At Edward Cahill’s concert at Lennon’s ballroom,
Phyllis Dauth and pretty little Marion Taylor
(daughter of the “Courier’s” editor) helped; Marion
played the second piano. The chief event was Cahill’s
playing of a Liszt “Hungarian Rhapsody.”
Married in All Saints’ was Dr. Vivian Leigh
Barlow, of Mater. Hospital, to Queenie, widow of the
late A. P. Greenfield. The bride wore orange and
brown, and Mrs. Leigh Barlow, the ’groom’s mother,
was matron of honor in a blue ensemble.
Fifty thousand people thronged Grey-street Bridge
on the night of the opening ceremony. His Ex. had
declared the bridge open in bright sunshine during
the afternoon. The Social Service League gathered
in nearly £Bo'o by stalls, chocolate wheels and other
devices, added to the blandishments of pretty collect-
ing girls. The crowd rushed the barriers and the
Selling of tickets had to be abandoned.
Distinguished guests included Lady Goodwin, the
Lud Mayor and Mayoress, Fraulein Beinhorn, Federal
members and aldermen galore, and Blair, C.J. and his
lady. Premier and Mrs. Moore received the vice-
regals, with whom was Madge Macdonald. Her Ex.
was in ash rose with a bowler cloche. Lime and
brown was donned by the C.J.’s wife. Mrs. Moore
wore white ’broidered in green; tweed patterned
saxe blue was worn by Mrs. Greene in the after-
noon, and white in the evening. Green and beige
were chosen by Mrs. Harding Frew ; Mrs. Horriibrook
was in navy and rose; Mrs. Will Huggins sported
navy and pale pink; Mrs. Macgroarty, patterned
black with jade feathers and black hat; the Hardie
lady, mastic and black.
The French aviators were welcomed by the Alliance
Francais in a tea at the Cosy Dell. Griffith Oxley
and his wife in nut-brown and fawn did the welcom-
ing, Baron de Veinich responding. Fraulein Bein-
horn chummed up with the fliers and the entente
cordiale went as far as surfing at Southport. As
she flew over Southport on the trip south the fraulein
dropped a brooch there for the Mayor.
Mrs. Harry Mills, who was Hilma Oilman, is ex-
pected from England soon.
A wedding of interest to Brisbane folk was that
of John Francis Paget, an Englishman, to Ann,
daughter of the P. A. Blundells, Ridgelands, Coor-
paroo, in St. John’s Cathedral. The bride was in
magnolia satin, the veil of cut tulle, and she carried
Eucharist-lilies tied with silver ribbons. Naera
Sampson ’maided in delphinium-blue with coronet
and posy of frangipanni. The Strathaird carried the
bride and bridegroom off to England, where they
will live.


Missing Friends.
A FFLEOK, DAVID GEORGE, son of
John Affleck and Wilhelmina Underwood
Wells, last heard of 24 years ago at Alex-
andra, Victoria, will hear something to his ad-
vantage if he communicates with NATIONAL
TRUSTEES CO., 113 Queen St., Melbourne.
Rheumatism and
Neuritis
relieved by
COLO SEPTIC
No matter how regular your
daily habits, through faulty
action of the bowels particles
of food waste become encrusted
on the walls of the intestine.
The result is dreaded self-poi-
soning ( autoxima ) or unsus-
pected constipation. To this
imperfect elimination of waste
matter can be traced the cause
of rheumatism, neuritis, and
similar ailments. Such internal
poisoning makes you old before
your time.
Be internally clean. Regain
the old energy of youth. Build
up strong, robust health and fit-
ness from the inside. Dislodge
this crust from the intestine
and cleanse the blood stream,
free the system from this sick-
ening, poisonous waste. Drink
COLOSEPTIC the prompt
way to health—vigour— to a
new life new vitality new
energy. Gently and smoothly
COLOSEPTIC forces out all the
poisons and impurities through
the bowels, kidneys, pores of
the skin and respiratory organs
—Nature’s four great channels
for the disposal of waste mat-
ter from the body. It brings a
new kind of internal cleanness
to your system.
Do you suffer from constipa-
tion. headaches, weakness, indi-
gestion, gas in the stomach and
bowels, catarrh, backache,
eczema, pimples? Then take
the first step towards health re-
storation by means of the
method directed to outroot self-
poisoning. Drink COLOSEPTIC
and personally prove how
quickly it surmounts your par-
ticular health difficulty—renews
your youthful energies—gives
you power to resist sickness
and disease. Test the powers
of COLOSEPTIC by sending
1/- in stamps or postal note to
COLOSEPTIC CO. LTD. (Dept.
D. 4.), 10 O’Connell Street,
Newtown, N.S.W., for a Special
Demonstration Jar and the valu-
able health booklet “Autoxima.”
COLOSEPTIC is sold in regular
full-sized jars at all Chemists
and stores.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 8200for [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
The opening of Parliament was very much
a family affair. When the Air Force gmirtl
inarched into position in front of the bund-
ing an hour before the opening ceremony,
even the backless front seat of the ladies
gallery had but a few occupants. The
Council chamber looked gloomy and dull,
the electric lights not being turned on until
close to the appointed hour of 2.30. An
extra line of maroon-upholstered leather
chairs was brought in for the ceremony,
being perched on a temporary step covered
with baize of a crude red hue that swore at
the deep wine-color of the tabletops. By
degrees, the pink, yellow and white ticket-
holders were sorted into their proper pens,
and, the stage being set, Lieut.-Governor
Irvine, looking very swish in his gold-
embroidered uniform, entered with his body-
guard, representative of Navy, Army and
Air Force —five minutes late. Putting on
his plumed millinery, his Ex. read a speech
to which nobody paid very much attention.
The whole show occupied about 10 minutes,
after which the non-Parliamentarians filed
out to explore the precincts. Refreshments
had been cut out, but a few members had
guests t 0 tea on the terrace, or in private
rooms.
The Lieut.-Gov.’s wife, in navy tailored suit
and matching felt millinery, was companioned
by the Clarke lady, who wore a dark blue
coat with a beige fur collar over a powder-
blue gown, her small hat being of mole hue.
Mrs. Iviernan’s black skirt was allied with
a French blue basqued jacket, and she wore
black felt hat. Mrs. W. Angliss’s _ light
brown suit of sports mode went with a
darker felt hat. The Peacock lady was in
black, relieved with amber-tint; and Stanley
Argyle’s lady favored the magpie blend in
her dressing and millinery. Mrs. James
Morrison brought her two small boys along.
Others in the throng were the Lud Mayor,
Mrs. Claude Couchman, Mrs. W. Mortill,
Lieut.-Col. and Mrs. G. IT. Knox, Patricia
Clarke and Mary and Grace Turner.
The annual conferring of degrees took
place on Saturday afternoon in Wilson Hall,
on the walls of which are arrayed portraits
of all the Uni.’s bigwigs, past and present.
There was the usual full complement of
sheepskin winners in arts, science and law,
but only a few medicoes and a solitary
Master of Surgery. Bachelors of Music
numbered seven. Girl graduates were well
to the fore, though none claimed degrees in
medicine. Senator Brennan put in an appear-
ance to bag an LL.D.; his daughter Laura,
already a Bachelor of Laws, took her M.A.
There was a round of applause' for the Sena-
tor, who looked distinguished in his scarlet
gown faced with white. The Chancellor spoke
a few words of special welcome to Lieut.-
Governor Irvine, who is a graduate. Emeri-
tus Professor Tucker gave an address on the
text of “More light.”
Following the ceremony there was a garden
party, at which Chancellor MacFarland and
Vice-Chancellor Barrett did the honors.
Guests were received in the quadrangle, re-
cently beautified by addition fronts and
cloisters and connected to Wilson Hall by an
arch. The display of academic dress put
feminine attire in the shade. In the
crowd were the Irvine and Barrett
ladies, Archbishop Head and his wife,
Lud Mayor Smith, Mr. and Mrs. Her-
bert Brookes, she in suit and felt hat of
bottle green, Mrs. T. A. Beckett, Mrs. T. C.
Brennan in tweed of tones of lime-green and
fawn, the Masson lady and Mrs. Edward
Stevens. The new rector of Xavier, Father
O’Brien, was also there.
The undergrads, staged their street show
on Saturday morning. References to Phar Lap
and Carbine were made in models of sack-
cloth, there was a burlesque surgical opera-
tion, and a hint at the depleted conditions
of Vic.’s Treasury. A fire brigade turnout
showed a crowded fire-cart, with the
chief, a lone figure on the back of a huge
char-a-banc, following on. In full regalia
and an eyeglass he bowed grandly to the
gazing crowds. An echo of the departure of
our acting-mayoress was the farewelling of
Mr. and Mrs. Hyer, the lady in smart
tailored suit waving a white gloved hand in
a triumphal progress per motor-car. Stu-
dents sold “Shop Soiled,” the magazine issued
for the occasion, proceeds going to the Lud
Mayor’s Fund.
St. Ivilda Plaza was the scene of the
Commem. Week Ball, sponsored by the Stu-
dents’ Association. B. IT. Taylor, president
of the Students’ Representative Council, and
Jean Gardner, vice-president, in dark-green
moire, gave greeting to the guests, who, in
eluded medical-knight James Barrett and his
lady, she in trained gown of black velvet;
Registrar ,T. P. Bainbridge and his wife, Prof,
and Mrs. Ken Bailey and Prof. Agar. Hon.
secs, were Agnes Scott, whose lace draperies
were of mushroom-pink hue, and R. Mac-
farlan.
Invitations were issued by the Lud Mayor
and Mrs. Dyer to a reception at the Town
Hall, at which farewells were said to the
Acting-Mayoress. Guests were received in
fhe vestibule by the Lud Mayor (in full
regalia) and by Mr. and Mrs. Dyer. The
floor of the big hall was strewn with the
golden and brown leaves of poplars and
elms, and beds of tuber begonias and glox-
inias clustered around miniature pine-trees.
A reed-grown pond with water-lilies formed
an effective centre-piece. The stage was
transformed into a bit of bush, with bam-
boos, ferns, maples, willows and fronds of a
cream and purple blossom mixed with fuchias
and crimson petunias. A waterfall tumbled
through this glen, splashing noisily into a
pool. _ Ivy clustered around the balconies.
Lighting was subdued to something approxi-
mating moonlight. In the supper-room there
were grape-vines and apple-trees. To enter-
rain the guests barefooted girls in diaphanous
draperies performed classic dances in the
autumnal setting, and realistic frogs frolicked
beside them. Jennie Brenan’s pupils, led by
Pan with his pipes, flitted and gestured to
the singing of the unseen St. Cecelia Choir,
or to the music of the Blise Steele string
quartette, with occasional passages from a
harp and a muffled drum. Mrs. Dyer’s gown
was turquoise-blue angel’s skin; a garland
of deep red roses dangled from one arm.
Among the guests were Lieut.-Governor
Irvine and his lady, she in trained gown of
sapphire-blue georgette. His Ex., of South
Australia, Sir Alexander Hore-Ruthven, was
also present with Lady Hore-Ruthven, whose
gown, shaded from palest grey at the waist
to black at the skirt hem, was scattered with
rhinestones. Gilded baskets of russet leaves
and berries were presented by the hostess to
tne v.-r. ladies, and similar compliments were
paid to Mrs. Tunnecliffe, wife of the Acting-
Premier, the Clarke lady, and some civic
womenfolk. Frank Clarke’s wife, who was
accompanied by her husband, waved a white
plumed feather-fan over black lace apparel;
Mrs. F. Stapley and Mrs. T. Tunnecliffe, who
came with Mr. Tunnecliffe, also chose black
lace. Mary Tunnecliffe was in dark green
georgette. The De Bavays brought their
daughters—Marie in pale green and Vera in
ivory satin. Mrs. Vernon Cole, of Sydney,
who came with the Weedon lady, was a strik-
ing figure in floral-patterned pale blue taffeta.
Mrs. W. Cass was elegant in white chiffon
with a necklace of black beads, and Mrs.
Norman Brookes’s parchment-satin gown
showed up her sun tan. Her three
daughters were with her. The Robinson lady
sported vellum-colored satin. National dress
was worn by Madame Chunhow Pao, wife of
the Consul-General for China. Her long
straight frock of the loveliest shade of pink
was embroidered in cherry blossom, and she
added a string and earrings of crystal. Mrs.
Angliss was in a beautifully cut midnight-
blue velvet gown. Mrs. Rupert Downes wore
Lido-blue chiffon with a wee jacket outlined
in diamente. Helene Best’s taffeta frock of
the faintest green was made with a bustle
effect. Mrs. Tweddle, the George Bells, Mrs.
S. J. Davis, Margaret Mac Lean and John
Longstaff represented the brush-and-palette
brigade; and Mary Campbell, Raymond Lam-
bert and Harold Elvins gave the gathering
a musical flavor.
For the charity race-meeting at _ Moonee
Valley the weather was spring-like and
the 'attendance was satisfactory. The
president of the Council of Benevolent
Societies, Mrs. G. G. Henderson, was there
accompanied by her daughter Mrs. Frank
Sampson and Mrs. Kenneth Henderson, of
Westralia, the last-named lady a symphony
in, two tones of blue. Mrs. J. H. Hewison,
Mrs. Rogers Thomson and Kathleen and
Mrs. A. V. Hiskins were also in the throng.
At the Nurserymen and Seedsmen’s Asso-
ciation’s show, held in Wirths’ enclosure, a
strong attraction was a plantation of minia-
ture ornamental trees. In the collection were
a bear with extended paws clipped from a
box shrub, and other animals. Fountains
and lily-ponds added charm to the garden.
A doll’s house, large enough for a couple of
children to fit in, had all the comforts of a
modern home including electric light and
a watchdog. Of course, it had a garden in
which were vegetables, flowers and fruit
trees, and there were a tennis court and some
crazy pavements. The big building that
houses the circus when the Wirths come to
town was a mass of riotous color, in which
dahlias, gladioli, roses and other blossoms
figured. Dahlias are getting bigger and
bigger. Among the latest varieties are “Kath-
leen Norris” and “The World,” both pink.
Sunset and amber tints mingle in the species
known as “Kingsford Smith” and “Queen of
the Garden Beautiful.” The Chatterer’s
fancy leaned towards a giant ruby-colored
specimen, “Lady Kidman.”
A Dickinson-Monteath camera here por-
trays Mrs. Tom Tunnecliffe, whose lius-
band is Acting-
Premier while
Mr. Hogan is
abroad. Mrs.
Tunnec liffo
was a very
small child
when she came
here with her
parents from
Hamburg. She
is an active
worker for the
Blind Insti-
tute, and de-
votes a good
deal of her
time to unem-
ployment re-
lief in her
own locality.
A daughter of
about 17 and
a son a few
years younger
constitute the rest of the Tunnecliffe family.
Owing to illness Mrs. Tunnecliffe was un-
able to be present at the opening of Par-
liament.
The first reunion of the newly-formed
Queenslanders’ Association was held at the
Australia, when there were a dance and
supper and a great deal of chatter. The
president of the Tassie association, Mr. L.
S. Bruce and his wife, and the president ot
the. Maoriland association, Mr. H. R. Hill
and his wife, were bidden to join the party.
Office-bearers of the Q.A. are General
Chauvel, patron; Brigadier-General Brand,
president; A. F. Ware, lion sec. Among
those present were the Brands and their
daughter Lorna, Mrs. Charles McDonald,
Mrs. Oscar Lempriere and Mrs. T. J. Ryan
and Jill. The Queensland Government sent
along a display of bananas, pineapples and
sugar-cane.
Melbourne is to be the headquarters of the
Australasian College of Surgeons. The State
Government has leased to the college for
a long term the old Model School site
bounded by Spring, Victoria, Evelyn and
Lonsdale streets, pretty close to Parliament
House. Before Melbourne Girls’ High
School was shifted to Fed. Government
House it was housed in the old building. A
condition of the lease is that an appropriate
new building be erected within a reasonable
time.
When Rebe, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
W. O. Griffiths, of Aspendale, wed Russell
Scholz, of Goulburn, the whole village
crowded about the Mordialloe kirk. The
bride, still in her teens, is the youngest
aviatrix with a pilot’s certificate, and her
husband is also a flier, his father, F. W.
Scholz, being president of the Goulburn Aero
Club. Two attendant ’maids, in pink gowns
and matching hats, and a couple of train-
bearers made a background for the ivory
satin and lace draperies of the leading lady.
Barrie’s “Quality Street” was performed
by the Loreto Players, under the direction
of Mrs. Maie
Hoban, to hoi])
the Free Kin-
dergarten. The
show ran
smoothly,
dressing was
charming and
staging good.
The cast was
similar to that
of an earlier
production by
the same orga-
nisation save
that there
was a new
“P hoe b e of
the ringlets”—
Nancye Con-
nell, pictured
here by Ronald
Esler. Miss
Connell, who
showed a good
deal of talent, wore white Chantilly lace and
fluffy tulle in the ball scene. Wyn Breheny
again made a hit as Susan, Phoebe’s elder
sister. The co. handed a present to Mrs.
Hoban, and there was also a souvenir for
George Walton, who was stage manager and
played the part of Captain Valentine Brown,
on the eve of his departure for England.
Mrs. S. J. Davis, the miniature painter,
persuaded Mrs. Dyer to give her a sitting,
and the lady will take back with her to Paris
a charming study which shows her in a blue
gown with white fox furs.
A tweet from Tassy:—
For the race meeting at Elwick the weather
was doubtful and the attendance thin. Autumn and
early winter frockings were worn, and tailored models,
furs and small hats were well to the fore. Club
president Jack Swan had daughter Nancy with him.
The rain fell and the wind blew in gales on the
Deloraine races, and dressing was a matter of mac-
intoshes. These, nowadays, are gaily colored, and
the stand and lawns were brightened by a kaleido-
scopic display. The racing was thrilling, and every-
body made the best of a bad day.
Popular little Ethel Tinning’s friends kept her
on the go before her wedding to Forbes Ireland,
with bridge and tea parties every day and night
of the week. Some of the hostesses were Mrs. Ire-
land, Jean Johnston, Naomi Kennedey, Mrs. Old-
meadow, Mrs. Meagher, Pixie Tabart, Enid Lord,
Helen Gray, Katherine Pitt and Nancy Hamilton.
The Lieut.-Gov. and his lady patronised the Bach
concert, got up in aid of Child Welfare Funds. City
organist J. Scott-Power gave a few minutes’ talk, on
Bach, and others on the programme were Madame
Helen George, Mrs. B. E. Saunders, Jessie Wakefield,
Linda Sheen, Stella Green, Molly Whitelaw, Pearl
Dunham, Glanville Bishop and an orchestra.
George Jackson conducted at the Philharmonic
Society’s Haydn bi centenary concert at the Town
Hall. There was a big attendance. Singers were
Mrs. S. Cox, Mrs. G. Thorne, Doreen Bidencope, G.
Lowe, R. Cooper, C. Clay and A. C. Paton. Violinist
David Fierclough, ’cellist Alan Mclntyre and pianist
G. A. Jackson gave the allegro movement from the
sixth trio.
Mr. Webb, a well-known collector of animals and
birds, is in the Speck platypus hunting. The crea-
tures are shy and scarce nowadays and London Zoo
is keen on having a specimen or two.
Socialities from S.A.: —
The bridge party in the Town Hall brought in
£6B for the Mothers’ and Babies’ Health Association,
and the gift tea at Mrs. E. W. Holden’s residence
nearly as much. Lady Hore-Ruthven was present
at the latter, where she was received by Mrs. Napier
Birks (president) and Mrs. Holden. Buffet tea was
served at the end of the lawn.
This is evidently going to be a great season for
debs. The ball given by Mr. and Mrs. Gordon
Sunter at the Mount Osmond Country Club saw
Honor Young and Pauline Brooks come out, as well
as daughter Catherine. At the ball at the Palais
Royal, organised by Mrs. Lavington Bonython as
one of the Baby Week functions, there will be 11
debs.
Dr. and Mrs. L. G. Muirhead have returned to
Henley Beach after a holiday in Tasmania.
Mrs. K. B. Harper, who is back in Adelaide after
five weeks at Port Lincoln, returns to Burma at
the end of the month.
There is a rush of dances and bridge parties to
bring in money for the various queens at the
Angorichina Flower Festival. The crowning cere-
money on the last night promises to be a spectacular
pageant. The regal robes combine all the most
perfect hues, in rich brocades and satins, and every
queen will be attended by two maids of honor, two
pages and a herald. Two of the queens have been
fortunate in having trains lent to them by Mrs.
Wynyard and Mrs. T. E. Barr Smith. All the
heralds will wear tunics and hose in pale almond
green. The names of the girls filling the star rBles
will be kept a profound secret until the last day.
Space will be reserved in the Exhibition Building
for the display of the furniture made by the patients
at the Angorichina Hostel. The small rose gardens
of genuine flowers will be judged by competent
growers, and the public will also be asked to vote,
prizes being awarded to the successful ones. The
objective is £2OOO and it looks as if it will be
achieved.
Tattersall’s meeting at Victoria Park was held
under dull and cloudy conditions and black pre-
dominated in the frocking. The chairman (Mr. P. J.
Flannigan) and his wife entertained at tea, the
hostess and her daughter Eileen both wearing black
tailored suits and black felt hats. The Mayoress
(Mrs. C. J. F. Glover) chose a black ensemble
flecked with white and a small velour hat.
The garden fete at St. Wilfrid’s, Aldgate, for the
Free Kindergartens looked as if it would be spoiled
by persistent rain. The committee of the Free
Kindergartens were in despair, but the public rose
to the occasion and over £73 was taken.
Westralia weighs in:—
A good crowd gathered at the sandy paddock
locally known at Hurlingham for the polo gymkhana,
and the equestriennes furnished a gay spectacle
as they careered over the course. Maisie Moore
mounted her gee in pink silk shirt and gob hat;
Barbara Naim’s green shirt and beret harmonised
with her greyish-green breeks ; Pat Hamilton galloped
easily in fawns with matching headgear ; Peg Watson
Williams’s cream silk shirt ballooned under a brown
felt pull-on; Edna Smiley stuck smartly to navy;
Mrs. Jack Butcher’s beiges helped to win the paint-
and-lipstick race, and Greta Mitchell’s sleek grey
Judhpurs carried off the prize for bending. Peggy
Sundercombe made a good get-away in the apple-
in-the-bucket event, but her mount played pranks
and she was carried off for a while. This, and
Norm Barrett-Lennard’s loss of a couple of front
teeth as he stopped a ball with his mouth in the
Perth-Irwin match, were the only mishaps of the day.
The final flutter of the cricket season was a
match between Old Boys of the two Adelaide schools,
St. Peter’s and Prince Alfred’s. Hale School pitch
wae the venue, and there Max Rymill and Geoff
Burgoyne gathered their teams. There were some
ardent feminine partisans. Mrs. Percy Armstrong
cheered the players in ochre-spotted blacks; Mrs. Ned
Stirling added her quota in flame silks; Violet
Holmes, bound by moss-green repp, came with sister
Mavis, a tailored figure in warm brown tweeds; and
Mrs. Auld clapped lustily in post-summer rig.
The Historical Society foregathered at the Karra-
katta Club to bid au revoir to its erstwhile
research and honorary secretary, Paul Hasluck, who
is skipping off to Fogland on the very day of his
nuptials with Alex. Darker. President Premier
Mitchell exhaled admiration and good wishes and
presented the travelling-case and illuminated address.
A couple of days later the same Paul was entertained
at a dinner by the Journalists’ Association.
King’s Park pavilion loomed white and stately in
the moonlight, with dozens of eyes glittering welcome
to the Polo Ball. Debutantes were noticeably absent,
quite a number of the floor-tappers being ladies
who are apt to consider their dancing days over.
Mrs. Darlot swung scarlet draperies at the official
table in the huge flower-strewn marquee erected on
the lawns for supping purposes. Mrs. Irwin Burgess’s
diamente heels twinkled ’neath black georgettes intri-
cately woven with rhinestones; Mrs. Alec Grant
greeted old friends in peacock blue; Mrs. Olden
was swathed" in sombre chiffons; Barbara Clarke’s
oyster satin had bell sleeves lined with apple green;
Mrs. Doug. Moore revolved in a pyjama suit of pea-
green satin; Yvonne Nairn carried a coy bow at
the back of her silver tissue coatlet; brown taffetas
and lace in tiers formed Joan Drummond’s quaint
model.
Benno Moiseiwitsch opened his series of concerts
on the palm-laden platform of Government House
ballroom. Music-lovers poured in and sat entranced,
mentally thanking the master for his generosity with
the encores. The D. D. Patons were there, the
Vincents, the A. J. Leckies, the Cockshotts and a
host of others.


11
A Matchless New Line
“WILL CORRY
Steel Shafted De Luxe
GOLF CLUBS
featuring the New
CUSHION NECK
. . . the most advanced
scientific development
in golf club construction >
1
I
f
V \ »
The Section of a “Carry” Club
showing the new Patent Inter-
locking device which securely
dovetails the head to the shaft.
Patented Cushion Neck Rubber
Sleeve stops vibration and shock
. . absolutely no metal to metal
contact.
Used and endorsed by the world's
most famous Golfers!
The result of the Cushion Neck is the
handling of club by the player; a new
feeling to the hands; straighter shots of
length.
perfect
sweet-
greater
“Corry” De Luxe Stainless Steel-shafted “Cushion
Neck” Graded Irons. Graded Club number button
on end of shaft. Nos. 1 to 9 37/6
OTHER “CORRY” (Steel-shafted) CLUBS
The Last Word in Club Manufacture and Finish.
“Corry” Super Steel-shafted Matched Woods. Inlaid Face,
Top Spot, Tru-temper Steel Shaft. Nos. 1 to 3 45/-
“Corry” De Luxe Steel-shafted Matched Woods. Plain Face,
Top Spot, Tru-temper Steel Shaft. Nos. I to 3 37/6
“Corry” De Luxe Steel Shafted Matched Woods. Plain
Face, Cold Sight Line. Nos. 1 to 3 30/-
“Corry” Lightning Steel Shafted Matched Woods. Plain
Polished Head. Chromium-plated shaft. Nos. 1 to 3, 25/-
“Corry” De Luxe Stainless Steel Shafted Graded Irons. Tru-
temper Steel Shaft. Nos. 1 to 9 • ■
“Corry” De Luxe Stainless Steel Shafted Graded Irons.
Plain Shaft ~
“Corry” Lightning Graded Irons. Rustproof He d,
Chromium-plated Shaft. (In Nos. 2,6, 7 and 9 only), 21/-
“Corry” Special Putter. Long Face. Corrugated Sole,
Steel Shaft 35/-
fJOTE. Every purchaser of a set of “Corry” Clubs is entitled to a free
Lesson from Will Corry
PROFESSIONAL GOLF TUITION
By Will Corry and Assistants, on Roof Sports Ground. Moderate Fees.
{Carriage paid on Golf Material). All Letters to Box 18 8, P. 0., Haymarket, Sydney.
MickSimmonsLtd.
720-2 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
"The Prent' 0 * Starts House of Australia”
sdf
&
©0
The Clerk of the Mine.
J. H. V. ABBOTT'S TERRIBLE PICTURE OF CONVICT LIFE AT THE
COAL RIVER.
OLD Jimmy til’ Coot was an encyclo-
paedia concerning the plans and pro-
jects of those high-and-miglity beings
who controlled the destinies of Lagdom in
the Sydney of the eighteen-twenties.
He was a First Fleeter —there were many
of Phillip’s pioneers still living in lh'-o
and a privileged peddler of trifles who was
admitted everywhere, as a sort of tribute
to his good memory and the entertaining
quality of his reminiscences. He had been
employed in the kitchens, at Government
House soon after the arrival of the Mac-
quaries, and, on account of his notable
faculty for anecdotage, had been made rather
a pet of by Mrs. Macquarie and her hus-
band, who were always entertained .by _ his
picturesque and more or less veracious
chronicles of Sydney’s infancy. Chapter and
verse he gave for his every statement and his
judgment of it, and he had become a kind
of unofficial historian of the Territory.
So when .Timmy carried his tray one morn-
ing into the yard of Sydney Gaol, the motley
horde of prisoners crowded round him, not
so much with the object of purchasing Ins
wares as of learning something as to how
the world outside —their overwork! —was
shaping their destinies. . Jimmy always
suited his news to his public.
To the babel of questions which smote, his
ears as the gaoler closed and locked the iron
wicket that had admitted him, Jimmy held
up a protesting hand.
“Aw, hold y’r tongues, ye chatt’rin’
magpies! I’ve no partic’lar news for none
o’ ye, but one—and him I’ll speak with pri-
vate. So stow y’r gab, an’ I’ll give ye th’
very latest.”
The comparative silence that ensued made
it plain enough who was the cock o’ the
walk on that dunghill.
“Well, I’ll tell ye. Word’s come down
from Jimmy Morrisett up at th’ Coal River
that ’e wants more ’ands for tli’ coalmines
an’ th’ eedar-gettin’—not to say nothink , o’
th’ limeburnin’. So they’re a-gettin’
ready th’ Gov’ment schooner to take a
hunner or so o’ ye to Noocastle. So ye can
be makin’ ready. for to meet, th’ Major in
a few days’ time. Th’ Crocodile’s all cleaned
out an’ waitin’ for ye, and most like ’twill
be to-mo.rry ye goes aboard. Ye can chew
on that now!”
A howl and moan of disgust and dread
went through the throng. It was not good
news that Jimmy th’ Coot had brought into
the prison, and the best that anyone could
hope for was that some oversight in; the
office of the superintendent might leave him
out of the list of those destined for the
dreaded Coal River.
Jimmy th’ Coot singled out a young man
and beckoned him into a corner of the yard.
“Look ye, Mr. Tolhurst,” he. said in a low
tone to the man he had taken aside—a young
fellow of better appearance than most of
his fellow-prisoners—“ ’tis sartain sure ye’ll
be for th’ coalmines, Gawd ’elp ye!
Strong young coves they want for them
stinkin’ ’oles in th’ ground. Ye’ll sail to-
morry as like as not, so there’ll be no more
chance this long time for to think o’ findin’
a ship to carry ye away. Twelve months
they’ve give ye at ’Unter’s River, and ye’ll
find it ain’t no soft livin’ place, wi’ Jimmy
Morrisett in charge. But my boy Ben’s
th’ clerk o’ th’ mine—th’ one they’ll send
ye to, for they don’t put Johnny-come-latclys
into tli’ noo one—’tis th’ hold mine, as they
calls it. Well, you tell ’im y’r a friend o’
th’ Bandicoot, an’ most like ’e’ll ye
some soft job like ’is. That’s all. Keep
quiet, an’ don’t run foul o’ Jimmy Morri-
sett. Good-bye, and good luck to ye. Gawd
knows ye’ll need it. An’ w’en.ye comes back
we’ll find a way to get ye out o’ th’ country.
Good-bye.”
*
It was a devil of a voyage to Newcastle
in a small convict transport in 1825, as
Mr. Charles Tolhurst, lately of Coutts’s
Bank in London, very well realised before
another forty-eight hours had gone by. Early
in the morning of the following day the
gaoler had assisted the Superintendent of
Convicts to select 120 of the strongest
prisoners in the Gcorge-street establishment
to fulfil the requisition for labor reinforce-
ments that had lately come from Major Mor-
risett, and, as Jimmy th’ Coot had pre-
dicted, young Mr. Tolhurst found himself
numbered amongst the compulsory migrants.
Handcuffed to a long chain, they had been
marched down to the Government jetty in
Sydney Cove in the early afternoon, and
dumped aboard H. M. Colonial schooner
Crocodile.
Before being sent down into the ’tween-
decks —a gloomy space below the upper
deck that was hardly four feet high—the men
were ordered to strip themselves naked.
When he got helow, each man was shackled
by his leg-irons to a chain that was clamped
to the middle planking of the deck. A mist
of reeking steam rose through the hatch-
way, and the stench was dreadful. They
met a stiff sou’-easter outside the Heads,
and the skipper sought shelter in Broken
Bay, so that the sixty-mile voyage lasted
for two days. A weevily biscuit and a drink
of water was the only refreshment allowed
the prisoners during that time.
And then the, King of the Coal River
bade them welcome to' his dominion in
characteristic fashion.
“A nice-looking lot of gallows-birds, you
are,” said the Major, hospitably. “But
we’ll straighten you up at Newcastle, you
can take my word for it. All right—march
’em to their gangs.”
It was a brief address, and much to the
point, and there was nothing in it that was
not quite true, as Mr. Charles Tolhurst
very speedily became aware.
Without any particular process of selec-
tion, the schooner’s passengers were divided
up into parties and sent to various employ-
ments. More than half of them went to
what was called the “old” coalmine, to dis-
tinguish it from a new shaft that was in
process of sinking, and amongst these was
Mr. Tolkurst.
V huge and brawny overseer known as
Red Mick received them from their mUitarj
escort at the mouth of the shaft ou the hil
side above the straggling village. Here,
Benny,” he bellowed, —come and take tn
likenesses o’ this ’ere lot o’ mothers’ daiim s.
Lumme, they’re a poor lot!
\ dejected individual shambled out of a
slab hut near the pithead, and noted down
rough descriptions of each _of the men as
they took their turns at being lowered into
the pit, one at a time, in an iron. bucko
that dangled from a windlass. This Ben.
thought Tolhurst, must be Jimmy th .Boot s
son. He contrived to whisper to him tm
introduction recommended, but the other
merely stared at him without any acknow-
ledgement. “Go on,” he growled, Ive got
yer. Inter th’ bucket.” ,
“Hurry up, you! Don’t stand a-dawdlin
there.” roared the overseer, as Tolhurst
paused on the brink of the abyss. ‘lnto th
bucket wi’ ye.”
At the bottom of the short shaft an
eerie prospect greeted the newcomers as
they stepped from the bucket. Seven low
tunnels ran into the earth, and at the end
of each the glow of a great coal hre lit the
strange place into' the semblance of an
inferno. Against the blaze, the silhouettes
of naked men toiled and labored like devils
in Hell, hewing coal and shovelling it lnt/i
little trucks that ran on wooden tramways
to the bottom of the shaft. After the last
of the new hands had been lowered down,
the overseer himself descended, and divided
them up into parties, to each of which was
given a truck. He led the party to which
Tolhurst had been assigned along one ot
the galleries, and committed them to the
overseer in charge. ;
“Knock ’em about; Tom,” he advised plea-
santly ; • “they ain’t ' got' no t friends.'> If: ye
don’t, blast ye, I’ll knock you about!’ ■ /
The work never ceased until long after
the daylight above ground had faded into
darkness. All day the miners ,were driven
by blows an d threats ' in strenuous toil that
exacted every, ounce of ; strength they had.
until they? were so weary that they almost
slept as they-pushed ..the heavy trucks along
the low-roofed galleries to the bottom of the
shaft. When the principal overseer'at length
decided that the day’s work was over, each
nian received a little boiled maize, a bit of
salt junk and a drink of water! Naked: be-
cause of the stifling heat, they- slept , where
' they could, find a level place to lie upon, and
in the morning their dreadful labors were
resumed again. They only left the mine at
midday on Saturday, when they: were taken
above ground to wash themselves .and their
clothes in the sea. ■ Sunday was flogging-
day, when they received their wages.
•4: * , , *
The famous banking-house of Coutts and Go.
had monopolised the activities of Mr. Charles
Tolhurst’s working years—that is to say,
from the time he left school until a little
matter of forgery had severed their rela-
tions, when he was 25 years of age—but had
never made him toil and sweat in the man-
ner he had toiled and sweated during the
first week of his residence at Newcastle,
Never would lie have believed that it lay in
a human being to work so hard and fare
so hard. When he emerged from the mine
into the sunlight of Saturday afternoon, he
was so weak and weary that he fell to the
ground, and .it was only a vigorous appli-
cation of the boot on the part of Red Mick
that enabled him to march with the re-
mainder of his miserable companions to tlie
beach for the ceremony of the weekly ablu-
tion.
They . bathed on the harbor side of the
entrance to the river because the surf was
too : convenient for suicide. It was the
strangest bathing party that has ever been
seen in Australia.
The chill of the salt water and the nippy
breeze revived Mr. Tolhurst a little, and, sit-
ting on the sands at the edge of the ebbing
tide,' he regarded his companions—the two or
three hundred emaciated men who slooshed
themselves under the eyes of the red-jacketed
sentries with fixed bayonets who ringed the
back of the beach. Only in one respect,
Tolhurst thought vaguely, did they resemble
one another. There were not a dozen of
them whose backs did riot show the weals
and seams of former floggings, and there
were many still exhibiting raw lacerations.
It was a kind of uniform, that criss-cross
pattern on the white backs between buttocks
and shoulders. Young Mr. Tolhurst shivered
as he looked at them. When, since it seemed
to be inevitably certain that everyone who
came to the Coal River must wear those
brands of shame and tyranny —when would
his turn come?
Suddenly he caught sight of the Clerk of
the Mine, Red Bill’s secretary and account-
ant, the wizened and dispirited creature
whom he knew for Jimmy th’ Coot’s off-
spring. He was rubbing himself down with
wet sand in a feeble fashion that seemed
altogether in keeping with his miserable
appearance. Tolhurst remembered that,
beyond the whispered word that he was a
friend of old Jimmy’s, uttered below his
breath as the clerk took his “likeness” at
the pithead four days before, he had had no
communication with the man who was to
help him to some better condition. Old
Jimmy th’ Coot was to be trusted —-every-
body said so. Of course, the son was only
a prisoner, like all the rest of them, but he
knew the ropes of this strange place, and
could at least advise him liow to make the
best of it. No doubt the proximity of Red
Bill had made - him surly a few days ago.
A man couldn’t take risks here.
The Clerk of the Mine waded out into
deeper, water; to wash the sand .off, and Tol-
hurst followed until he ;was close behind
him, beyond the outer line of bathers. Then
someone behind, catching sight of his un-
seamed back, guffawed some filthy obscenity.
“A vargin, boys—a vargin!” the
fellow yelled.
Jimmv th’ Coot’s son looked round, grin-
ning at the well-worn jest, and recognised
Tolhurst as the man who had spoken to
him of his father at the mine. u His gnn
changed to a leer of malice, and he cackled
with laughter.
“Oh, never mind ’im, Bob. Jimmy 11 meet
him to-morrow morning; all* right. , I’ve see d
to that. He won’t long be a virgin.
“Lor’ lumme, Ben —wote’s tli’ pore ■ dear
bin a-doin’ hof? Wo teller goin’ ter ■■ mter-
dooce ’im to th’ Major for?'- Amt e oin
pleasin’ Red Bill?"’ . , v. . ..;
••rph’ dog!” responded Jimmy . th’.
Coot’s sou. “He-tole-me. he was-a friend
o’ me farver’s —an’ -I’ve - ’ad enough o’ me.
farver’s friends.' No more o’. ’em for . me!
Sam KivvinS-V’e '• was-and farvers lnend,,
an' th’ swine comes- a-crawlin’ to Red Bail,
an’ nigh does-me-bout • o’, me job. So I’ve
fixed up this ’ere-last one.” •
‘Wotcher done to’, ’im, Ben?” •
“Aw ’tain’t wot I’ve -done—tis wot til
Major’ll do that counts. • AIL it's got to do
wienie is I’ve" entered ’im'uip for .hinsoleuce
an’ hinsubor’nation to Red Bill —to Mister
Flaherty. ’E’ll get a ’undred for that little
lot. No —me farver’s friend won’t be no
virgin artel to-morry moruin’, that ’e
won’t!” ' /, , ■ m ,,
Amazed and sick, young Mr. lolhurst
gaped at the miserable, little wretch before
him! Could such malicious devils really
exist? For a while he could hardly think.
Then, suddenly..the infamous, thing-that had
been -done to him sent a wave of red-hot
blood surging through his brain. _
“Christ!” lie grunted. “You've done
that!”
The miserable Clerk of the Mine had no
more time than to let out a yelp of aston-
ished fear before Mr- Tolhurst had him under
the water. When they were dragged apart
Jimmy th’ Coot had no heir —he had been
drowned.
Major Morrisett happened to be strolling
outside the line of sentries, and made inquiry
as to the commotion in the water. When
they brought young Mr. Tolhurst, naked,
before him, he looked at him curiously.
“Ha,” he remarked. “A cleanskin
That’ll never do. Well, then, why did you
drown the fellow? Answer me, now —or
I'll soon find means of making you.”
Tolhurst gulped.
“Well?”, snarled the Major.
“He’d put me down for a crime, sir—
something I never did—so that I would bo
flogged.”
“Well, ' that was no reason for killing
the man.' It was‘only his joke. And you
will be flogged, you know.”
Young Mr. Tolhurst, in the folly of his
youth, thought' tliat he could at least refute
the Commandant on this point. Foolishly,
he did so.
“I’ve killed a man, sir. I can be tried
and hanged for murder. But I can’t be
flogged. I’d rather be' hanged than flogged.’
Major Morrisett regarded him for a few
moments with a smile. ■ Then lie turned to
the • sergeant of the prisoners’ guard.
“Sergeant,” he said, “send one of your
men up for Rooney. And tell him to bring
a cat with him. Tie this fellow to that
post. My man, you’ll find that I can do
nearly anything— here. This is the Coal
River, you know.”


sdfd
d
New Zealand readers send N.Z. Postal Notes only with orders.
“LOVE,” by Elinor Glyn
Elinor Glyn, famous author of “Three Weeks,” has written an amazing book
that should be read by every man and woman—married or single. “Elinor
Glyn on Love” is not a novel—it is a penetrating searchlight fearlessly turned
on the most intimate relations of men and women.
LOVE’S VITAL PROBLEMS SOLVED.
In “Love,” Elinor Glyn courageously solves
the most vital problems of love aiul marriage.
She places a magnifying-glass unflinchingly
on the relations of men anti women. A T o
detail, no matter how avoided by others, is
spared. She warns you gravely, she suggests
wisely, she explains fully.
“Love” is one of the frankest books ever
written. It had to be. A book of this type,
to be of real value, could not mince words.
Every problem had to be faced with utter
honesty, deep sincerity and resolute courage.
But while Elinor Glyn calls a spade a spade—
while she deals with strong emotions and
passions in her frank, fearless manner —she
nevertheless handles her subject so tenderly
and sacredly that the book can safely be
read by any man or woman.
In fact, anyone over eighteen should be COM-
PEILEb to read “Love”; for, while igno-
rance may sometimes be bliss, it is folly oi
the most dangerous sort to be ignorant of the
problems of love and marriage. As one
mother wrote us: “I wish I had read this
book when I was a young girl—it would have
saved me a lot of misery and suffering.”
GET “LOVE” TO-DAY.
Send a 8/G Postal Note to the London Book
Co., Ltd.. Box 38, G.P.0.. Sydney, and you
will not "only receive a copy of “Love” by
return mail, but a copy also of Health and
Beauty Secrets.
Please mention “The Bulletin” when ordering.
NOW OBTAINABLE AT LAST—THE GREAT BOOK OF
SEX KNOWLEDGE FOR MEN AND WOMEN.
“SAFE COUNSEL”
By Prof. Jeffries, M.D., Ph.D.; Prof. A. L. Nichols, A.M.; Dr. Emma F. A. Drake,
M.D., Ph.D.; and Zora S. Davis, Ph.D.
And have it Posted right to your very door for £1
Must every woman pay the price of a moment’s happiness in bitter tears and years of regret ? Must
millions of homes be ruined —lovers and sweethearts driven apart—marriages totter to the brink of divorce—
the sacred joys of sex relations be denied? YES—just as long as men and women remain ignokant of the
simple facts of life. ,
An Unpardonable Sin is total ignorance of the most important subject in the life of every man and woman
AWAY WITH FALSE MODESTY!
Let us face the facts of sex fearlessly. and frankly, sincerely and scientifically. Let us tear the veil of
thame and mystery from sex and build the future of the race on a new knowledge of all the facts of
sex as they are laid bare in plain, daring but wholesome words and frank pictures in this huge new library
of Sex Knowledge—“SAFE COUNSEL.”
fsd
sdf
sdf
FOR MEN AND WOMEN—OVER 100 ILLUSTRATIONS.
EVERYTHING A
MARRIED WOMAN
SHOULD KNOW
•V'
How to preserve
youth—Warding off
other women —Keep-
ing yourself attractive
—Why husbands tire
of wives—Dreadful
diseases due to ignor-
ance Diseases of
women Diseases of
children Family
health guide
Change of life; hygiene—Why children die
young—lnherited traits and diseases —
What will you tell your growing girl—
Hundreds of valuable remedies.
Secrets for Men
Mistakes of early
carriages Secrets
of fascination —How
to make women love
y o u—Bringing up
healthy children —
Nursing and weaning
—Fevers and con-
tag io u s diseases
—A ccide n t s and
emergencies
—-Hygiene in the home —How to care for
invalids —Limitation of offspring—Warn-
ing to young men—Dangerous diseases
Hygienic precautions Anatomy and
physiology—The reproductive organs—
Education of the family.
r
\0 I
GIRLS, DON’T MARRY BEFORE YOU KNOW THIS.
Beauty diets and baths —Do you know:
How to attract desirable men? —How to
manage men?—How to know if he loves
you?—How to acquire bodily grace and
beauty ?—How to beautify face, hands, hair,
teeth and feet?—How to acquire charm?
—How to dress attractively ?—lntimate per-
sonal hygiene?—How to pick a husband?
Enclosed please find £1 (one
pound), for which please send me
one copy “Safe Counsel” by return
mail.
N.Z Readers send £1 N.Z. Bank
Note. v
SEND £1 FOR A COPY OF “SAFE COUNSEL” TO-DAY.
Use this form, or if averse to cutting the .paper.
ention The Bulletin when writing.
■ ■■■
Address
sdf
ALL THE ABOVE
ONLY OBTAINABLE
All orders sent by Return Mail.
•5
REGISTERED OFFICE: 228 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PERMANENT POSTAL ADDRESS:
BOX 38, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Send postal notes or cheques.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia's Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS ....
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/»
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
sd
sds
0°
,\0 6
...
S 6 ?
U0 V ' >3^
A 3 ** ~
. . • * ,• • ■
*V£V*
. * .A ;f4.ffvC e ’ 0 .
o*'


♦♦
s'
m
1
JP&L
.
M
1
mm
m
r*
V*2
m&
•»
waHP
-
’. >V
.
as
WM
U
m
»»*
,y.;
»*r,
lilf
*v.*
SB£ i
■v, V;
<3BO
■if-
01
Break the seal and disclose the message —an intro-
duction that is sincere and letter perfect J.W. M
Mellow as its own )| century-old reputation, Johnnie
Walker is Scotch Whisky at its best, a blend that is the
permanent choice of more good fudges than any other whisky
in the world. — — Pour it out ..... taste it..... can
you describe that mellow excellence? Yes —it’s on
the tip of your tongue —J.W.
Johnnie Walker Whisky
is guaranteed produce of
Scotland and of uniform
quality the
world over, and
since it is bottled
in bond under Common-
wealth Customs super-
vision, its guarantee is
endorsed by the
Commonweal th
Government.
JOHNNIE
SCOTCH
:
m
3 ■
Mf7 . Oiw-r 6fl OZJ
WALKER
WHISKY
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON and KILMARNOCK
