

, . M
mm
■i
*,.s
■I
HI
m
m
y :
■
jjgH
II
m
mm
tern
mm
r
m
■
■
HI
fills
? Scl ■■
H H
m,
m
■■
■
‘
wmm,
i
Ans tates express
glowing tribute to
Stqte(xpress
GLOWING praise is all that counts
where Cigarettes are concerned.
As soon as Three-Three’s came
down to the pocket-pleasing price of
Nine for Sixpence, the volume of praise
devoted to them spread like a blaze.
To-day,Three-Three’s have eclipsed every
other quality Cigarette because of the
perfect 333 blend, the unchanged Ardath
quality, the choice of cork or plain tips—
and the price—Nine for Sixpence.
è
é
%
A
A
M
0.
0.
l
u
®s
®s
E?.
<3ta
2*tr
o
ê
Also Flat 50s, Flat 100 s and
Round Air-tight 50s.
OR K TIP
N
PL A I
The Bulletin
' fi 8
Vol. 53.—N0. 2721.
Wednesday, April 6, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


o uR Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
with full terms and particulars post
free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
w
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
tSooklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
Mv Address
S:B. 132 ... T V.
JJYSAGHT"
O
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
rrmmmmimmmmmmm,
/uticura
i y: *kiß c n kJim i
V/-Si
a±t
For over a half century the
name Cutfcura has been
before the public. Have
you ever wondered what
the name means? Derived
from Cutis-cura, it means
just this, "care of the skin,”
and that is what Ciati-
cura Preparations
have been doing for mil-
lions of people throughout
the world.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d. Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
inmmm
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,"
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 117,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Special Announcement
to National Advertisers
Cbt tncrcurv
Tasmania’s National Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an ►
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
1 9 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart. '
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building
Elizabeth Street.
THE PATRIOT
KDIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” ia re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freed om from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane "Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The * Telegraph”
leads the way
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
the new Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and “up-to-the-minute”
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the “N.Z. Referee”
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
A ustralian Rejnesentative :
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2. where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency. Ltd.. 54a I’itt Street, Sydney; or
40f>-f>s Collins Street. Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
The Young and Miserable
England has an immense number of
youths who write well. Probably more
than any three Continental countries put
together; certainly more than ever before.
They possess wit, style and technical
ability, as a rule; their trouble is that they
know so little of life. A novelist can only
write confidently about things he is familiar
with, and that accounts for the recent spate
of novels on the subject of public, private
and preparatory schools. There is an odd
sameness about them. They all deal with
homo-sexuality—a subject which British
novelists rarely so much as hinted at until
10 years ago—and tljeir perverts live. All
try to describe normal love affairs, and in
almost every case make a hash of it. And
one and all are abysmally gloomy. “What
is England coming to ?” ask the right-think-
ing when they encounter one of these
works. The answer is that adult England is
as righteous as ever. Alec Waugh, for ex-
ample, who was expelled from his Old Boys’
Association for “The Loom of Youth,” has
just written in “Leap Before You Look” a
story that Queen Victoria might have
applauded. He has grown up. Yet he isn’t
writing so brightly as he did, or anything
like so brightly as the tw y o clever youths
whose novels are discussed below.
Love as a Destroyer
It is explained in the preface of J.
Keith Winter’s The Rats oj Norway
(Heinemann; 7s. 6d.) that thousands of
Norwegian lemmings swim regularly to an
island, which disappeared beneath the sea
ages ago, and are drowned. So with love.
We seek it in our blind stupidity, and only
find spiritual or material death. To prove
this cheery thesis Mr. Winter takes a pre-
paratory school in Northumberland. Mrs.
Claydon, the head’s wife (36 and “very
beautiful”), has fallen in love with Sebas-
tian; the second master. He is unresponsive
at first, but she eventually seduces him.
Her niece Tilly, and Stevan, the junior
master, also have a love affair; but it is
innocent. The effeminate Oxonian Chet-
wood ecstasises about Peter (“A divine
child! Oh, definitely a masterpiece”), and
heaps chocolates on him. Peter, another
good study, is what Americans call hard-
boiled. He strings the wretched Chet-
wood on. devours his chocolates and jeers
at him behind his back, and even
to his face. Then Peter’s mother decides
to take him away, and Chetwood suffers
tortures. Mrs. Claydon wearies of the
frenzied ardors of Sebastian, and tells him
so. At about the same time Stevan finds
himself tiring of Tilly, and the harder
she struggles to hold him the greater his
revulsion becomes. Both affairs are epi-
sodes of a schoolboy past. Sebastian, in
spite of his alleged war record, dipsomania,
hard, bitter face and nature, is essentially
a lad of, say, 17, having his first rapturous
affair with a sophisticated married woman.
Stevan is the same boy a year or so
younger, and poor Tilly isn’t a day over
14. Grown-up men don’t take to drink on
being told that they are too passionate, or
fall in and out of love as abruptly as
Stevan.
A Grey World
The hero of Christopher Isherwood’s The
Memorial (Hogarth Press; 7s. 6d.) is
Edward Blake. Like Sebastian, he is old—
old enough to have been to the war. Eric,
a Cambridge undergraduate, objects to his
friendship with Maurice because of the dis-
crepancy in their ages;—
Edward laughed, but Erie could see that he was
taken aback.
“Do I seem old to you?’’
“It doesn’t matter what you seem to me”—Eric
was contemptuous-—-“the point is: you are old.”
Maurice, also a Cantab and Eric’s cousin, is
a charmer of an exasperating type. He
calls his men-friends “ducky” and “darling,”
is “smartly dressed, and rather conscious
of it, in a fashionable little double-breasted
waistcoat and pointed shoes,” and has a
school-boyish love of making people
feel awkward. When last encountered he is
using his charm to take down the cus-
tomers of a car-selling business. His
mother, Mary, was deserted, without warn-
ing, by his Irish father. Mary’s sister-in-
law Lily, who is Eric’s mother, lost her
husband in the war. and spends her futile
life trying, ineffectually, to marry a man
who is too stupid to understand. And then
there are old My. Vernon, Lily’s father, who
is paralysed; and the rich, vulgarian Rams-
botham, who is. guilty of striped cuffs and
a Midland accent;
and Margaret, an
artist, who is inter-
ested in , Edward.
Margaret eventu-
ally persuades Ed-
ward to live with
her, and they are treated as married by
those who know them; but it doesn’t work.
He strikes up a friendship with Mimi, a
handsome young lighthouse-keeper. Then
he takes Mitka to live with him in Paris:—
One evening Mitka left the studio. He was going
downstairs, he said, to the cafe for a packet of
cigarettes.
Mitka never comes back. We leave
Edward living dejectedly in Berlin with a
German youth named Franz. None of the
characters get anywhere except Eric, who
at Cambridge was a proselytising atheist.
He springs a last-minute surprise on Edward
(and the reader) by announcing his
version to Roman Catholicism, and he gets
a further kick out of life by running a
workers’, club. A sample of the dialogue
“Come and see the hen,” said Edward.
“Are you coming?” they asked Mary.
“No, children; 1 think I’ll go and sit down. 1
shouldn’t be sorry to get my poor old feet off the
ground for a few minutes,”
“Lazy old sow!” said Maurice.
“Thank you for them kind words, my child.”
Unsightly words like “sow” and “bitch”
are used with youthful gusto, and there is
the usual quota of “bloodies.” Summed
up on necessarily scrappy lines these novels
may seem, to quote the N. S. Wales Act
under which the De Groot film was banned,
“harmful to manners and decorufn,” but
they are nothing of the sort, which is no
doubt why the censor passes them and the
best libraries stock them. Their biased
memories of school days—biased because
clever, original boys are traditionally un-
happy at English schools—and their sad
imaginings of the lives of ancients of 30
and over don’t make misbehavior appear
glamorous but sordid and disgusting. They
are disguised tracts. A summary also fails
to do justice to the humor which keeps
flashing out through the gloom; to the sure
touch with which the modern voices are
registered, and, above all, to the writers’
honesty. They may be misguided, but
they have the courage to show life as the
unmitigated catastrophe many imaginative
lads think it is.
RED PAGE.
France and Germany
"In France,” Whistler once remarked
grimly, “you are taught which end of
brush to put in your mouth. In England it
is a matter of taste.” Substitute Germany
for England, and you have, from one aspect,
the theme of Friedrich Sieburg’s brilliant
book which, after immense success in Ger-
man and French, has now reached English
with the title “Is God a Frenchman?” To
the writer of this book, who is a German
with an enthusiasm for France, the Gospel
of St. Joan i:i, largely a matter of educated
taste, traditional taste, gout: —
Intelligent foreigners, he says, are reduced to
despair the first time they come up against the law
of gout...-. When the Frenchman numbers gout
among the highest human values and can find' no-
thing better than pleine cle govt to express his
approbation of a, philosophical deduction of first-
rate importance; when he speaks, like Lasserre, of
an inelegance morale.... truly these are the words
of a foreign language which has entirely ceased to
be European but is all the more truly French for
that. The Frenchman lumps an act of Wedekind
together with, say, the Bismarck Tower as “lacking
in taste." without giving a thought to the features
which really do make the Bismarck Tower a horror.
There in that last phrase you have the
singularly German tolerance of Herr Sie-
burg. Could a Frenchman admit that any
typieally French monument could be a
horror? On the other hand: in August,
1914, I met a wounded Zouave invalided to
a remote Breton village after the battle of
Charleroi. Referring to the staple matter
of the newspapers at the time, I asked if he
had witnessed any German atrocities. His
fatigued voice became a little wearier: “I
saw the late Kaiser’s monument at Stras-
burg,” he murmured. He could have said
nothing stronger.
What is the basis of this French self-
complacency? Herr Sieburg’s book has for-
tunately evoked a reply from his French
publisher, Bernard Grasset: a long, orderly
statement following just the chief argument
and refusing to be diverted from it. This
“Open Letter” is extraordinarily well
written, providing in itself a specimen of
the taste and style and restraint that are
Sieburg’s admiring despair. Look at these
sentences, from a passage near the close, in
which Grasset concedes the value of Sie-
burg’s book not only as a document for
German readers but as a book helping
Frenchmen to realise the function of
France, “to maintain her conception of
human good in the face of the various
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


TRUTH in ADVERTISING.”— Always the Truth. “The Senior Store:
are richlq fur trimmed
9/66
OL
I
m
m
m
m
n
Man-tailored Faced-cloth Coat. Coney fur collar, and
sleeves trimmed to elbow with Coney. Half-lined. New
military revers. Fawn, Bottle, Brown, Navy and Black.
Sizes, S.S.W. 44in., S.W. 46in., W. 47in., O.S. 48in.
Anthony Horderns' Price 60/-
Wool Diagonal Coat. Large collar and revers of Coney
fur Half-lined. In shades of Bottle, New Brown, Navy
and Black. Sizes, S.S.W. 44in., S.W. 46in., W. 48in ,
and O.S. 50in. Anthony Horderns’ Price 707-
Face Cloth, with a satin finish. Large pulled Coney
collar and band of Coney on sleeves to elbow. Half-
lined. New wide sleeves. Nigger, Bottle, Burgundy,
Navy and Black. Sizes, S.S.W. 44in., S.W. 46in., W.
47in., and O.S. 48in. Anthony Horderns’ Price . . 99/6
Faced-cloth Coat. Man-tailored on good straight lines,
empiecements on sleeves forming cuffs. Crush collar.
New Brown, Bottle, Wine, Navy and Black. Sizes, S.S.W.
46in., W 47in., and O.S. 48in. Anthony Horderns’ Price .
Department—Third Floor. We pay carnage.
Reversed
Half-lined.
44in., S.W.
/- 5O-
Coat in wool-f ac e d
cloth. Large Coney
crush collar. Cordings
trim sleeves, centre-
back and hipline. Half-
lined. Nigger Brown,
Bottle, Navy and Black.
Sizes, S.S.W. 44in., S.W.
46in., W 47in., and O.S.
48in. Anthony Hor-
dern’s Price .. 39/11
a
ms
ffnh
Reveals aneiD nole.of Ski|le Economy
Write for
our
Fashion
Catalogue
A perfectly illustrated Cata-
logue of authentic Autumn
and Winter Fashions, will
be posted to you on request.
It is a guide to the styles
of the moment.... frocks,
coats, sports wear, hosiery,
gloves, bags, etc. The very
latest dress materials, etc.
Write for it to-day. It will
help you to decide your new
winter’s wardrobe and how
to choose it economically
from Anthony Horderns’.
FUR • • is Right • •
for this Smart Season
Evening Coat m Pony Skin at
Evening Coat of Fabric Pony Skin. Cut on Q i I
newest lines. Well made. Finished with r\LL
silk lining. In Brown* Hunter s Green* I i
Royal Blue and Black.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 84/-
Also in Leopard or Panther.
Anthony Horderns’ Price . . • 84/-
FUR TRIMMINGS
Full-size, well-cut Collar and Cuff Set of Mink-stripe
Rabbit. Lined ready to ,sew on. This certainly is won-
derful value. Anthony Horderns’ Price, set .... 15/11
Beautiful, lustrous Astrakhan Trimming, obtainable in Brown, Grey or Black.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices 3in. wide, 3/11, sin. 4/11
Fur Trimmings—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. We pay carriage.
IV
T
’Phone M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


* *‘ f \ -•> : *-iC • ; 1.--J
. • .. ..- - { vvj-.->-'i.
* '* *1 \9r*
■■■■■a
1
'-J* : -•
H
•:>f\
1
n
....,,.
/V
■
,a
■ 1 jF;
m . a
■IMMMi
; :
*■*■ '
H
, ,v;,<
;
H .A®
« I
Pi >'•
m
Jj? <* /• ’ ' 'i
'' ' VMs.V ' ■>■■■•
uas
i l
i ■ A
ii
Jr 111
9j9B| I
" ' f flmmmM , « ''Wlf # ,'
1
•p.;a >
W
W At. . .
:
%■ . J
m
if
m
i s*•
M
■ :
...........-'.J
' -aiMii
■
'
'
M
m
r
m
p
,
- fi
k
■
§ms§ *
mm
p
w
■
*
; :
k
■
■
111*1
IP
Hr' sJ$
WRam- -.;
W wwWS
. iSI
m
m
m
i
V
• s
■
Hi i
H
By the Mossy Banks of Spey
DEWARS
SCOTCH WHISKY


HARDY'S
Sparkling
©
WINES
%
tk th eiv Special
Cold Label Still daps
resu llof
« 72,
Years of mine gro unrig
and njahinQ
<<•
m
M
m
SPA
IL at,
a
'm
BLJ- *»£
SJ®T4 -
£
hi 111 Jjhvirh,.« l Ww. . ~i
conceptions of Power by which other nations
are inspired.” Grasset says-, in passing,
that if he had time he would not merely
accept this tribute to France but would
express his admiration for the special quali-
ties of Germany. Listen to the superb,
half-insolent clang of this aside:
As you are not unaware, we are inclined to find
superiorities in other nations even where those
superiorities are in no way evident. It comes
naturally to us to admire. I hope I may some day
have the opportunity of proving it to you, by
telling you how many things we envy you, and how
valuable we feel your tenacity, your methodical
spirit, which is never disturbed by irony, and your
foresight, which is the condition of all growtn,
would be, if those gifts were employed in the service
of a humanism such as our own.
Humanism: that is, the right of every indi-
vidual to realise himself as fully as possible ,
as Sieburg puts it, “The shoemakers m
France are unable to put a patch on prop-
erly or within the required time, but make
up for it by shutting up shop for the whole
of August and going into the country to
fish.” Humanism: that is, as Bernard
Grasset says, the words dearest to French
people are indeed limiting words, mesure,
gout, horizon, precisely because they answer
to the French belief in the constancy of
human nature. “We believe in the man-in-
himself; you do not. Our conception of
Man as ‘constant’ in Time—that is what
makes us resist these supposed discoveries,
these new gospels by which the world con-
tinues to be menaced.” France dfeads the
mechanisation of life and sees it, not as
“progress” and “culture,” but asi mere
“means to conquest.”
There’s the rub. Wistfully, in the open-
ing of his vivid book, with its pictures of
the France he has known and loved since
before the war, Sieburg sums up his reasons
for writing this book. He sees all round his
subject at once, puts down contradictory,
suggestive, hit-or-miss ideas. “I write,” he
says, “because machinery ought to provide
humanity with leisure instead of enjoying
divine honors” (one for France). “I write,
again, because France regards every step
in technical and social progress taken in
other countries as a personal injury, and
not without justification; for what can
people be about, drafting plans for a world
when they have not even thoroughly
absorbed the ideas of the French Revolution
yet?” (Half for France, but with a flicker-
ing smile.) “I write,” he declares, “because
it is high time the question was cleared up,
whether God really is of French nationality,
and, if so, whether we must contrive to get
on without Him.” (Here is no derision, but
grief.) “For,” he said earlier, “one needs
to bear on one’s forehead the mild sunset of
that evening’s rest to which France has
given herself up, in order to come unharmed
through the cold workaday morning of our
times.” It is such metaphors, with their
numbed, question-begging determinism,
that in their unfairness will never fail to
astound a French controversialist. Why
this resignation? Why no criticism of
modern developments? Has the German
no standards? France, on the other hand,
insists on applying standards. Is it worth
sacrificing humanity to efficiency? What is
humanity? What is efficiency? What is
the meaning of tradition? For Germans,
as Grasset works it out, progress works by
the law of substitution; for the French it
comes by “filiation”—sonship. A man
“guards the treasure which he is to pass on.”
Such is the gospel of St. Joan. Sieburg
finds the world moving away from it at a
great pace. Is he right?
NETTIE PALMER.
The Australian Writer in England
I read “F.S.’s” attack (R.P. 23/3/’32) on
my article “The Australian Writer in Eng-
land,” noted his personal vindictiveness and
wary anonymity, and remembered Kipling’s
lines on The Little People:—
Mistletoe killing an oak —
Rats gnawing cables in two —
Moths making holes in a cloak—-
How they must love what they do!
Yes; and we Little Folk, too,
We are busy as they—
Working our works out of view—
Watch, and you’ll see it some day!
Had I in my article assumed the conven-
tional, and in these days so commonly-worn,
cloak of mock modesty, and depreciated my
own work and apologised for it, then prob-
ably “F.S.” would have applauded with all
the strength of his conventional little mind.
But I did not do that. I know that I
have done quite exceptional literary work
that some day will gain due recognition in
this and other countries. Because I dare
to say so, and quote from the letters of
famous men who hold high opinions of
that work, obscurities like “F.S.” work
themselves into a fury of personal resent-
ment. My article might have read as pure
self-boost. What if it were! There was no
word in it that was not true, and the letters
quoted from (though “F.S.” seems to think
they were bogus) were genuine. But how
foolish to expect men of his type to recog-
nise genuineness or truth or sincerity in any
form! Such men are too small. In one
of Eugene O’Neill’s letters he wrote: “Gen-
erally speaking, the critic of any kind of
art is simply a defeated, envious, inferior
type who knows nothing whatever about
his subject. He is cheap, and the only
sane attitude is to take him cheaply.”
“F.S.” is clearly a critic of that breed.
ALAN D. MICKLE.
A Satchel of Books
Clive Bell’s An Account of French Paint-
ing (Chatto and Windus; 7s, 6d.) was de-
signed primarily to help those _ who had the
luck to visit the recent exhibition of French
art in London. But it should interest thou-
sands of Australians. Bell has no bigotries
at all, and the happiest knack of justifying
his enthusiasms. There are a couple of
dozen fine reproductions of masterpieces,
primitive, Italianate and modern.
Ernest Benn, Ltd., are putting out a series
of ninepenny novels by leading modern
writers. “Love Is a Flame,” by Mrs. Belloc
Lowndes; “The Next Generation,” by J.
D. Borcsford; and “Incredible Tale,” by
Naomi Royde-Smith, have appeared. They
are about 25,000 words shorter than the
average novel of the day, and immeasurably
more respectable. Bonn’s message to the
authors seems to have been: “Be amusing if
possible, but in any case be edifying.”
Joseph Roth’s Job (Heinemann; 7s. 6d.)
is one of those utterly lugubrious works that
militarily and economically defeated Germany
takes a masochistic pleasure in reading.
Between early manhood and decrepit old age
Mendel Singer experiences every imaginable
misfortune. Then a miracle happens. His
son Menuchim, whom he had forgotten,
turns up. He is rich. The old man will
spend his few remaining days in comfort.
Dorothy Thompson has made a good job of
the translation.
Peter Craven tells the story of Martin
Porlock's Mystery in Kensington Gore (Col-
lins; 7s. 6d.) iii the racy, colloquial style
of the casual adventurer he is. He was
burgling a house —having been impelled
thereto by starvation —when he ran across
the corpse. After that it was mystery,
mystery Jill the way till he ran down the
murderer and achieved a nice wife and the
respect of the police. An ingenious crime
yarn with hardly a page,that you want to
skip.
If you want to know all about mosquitoes
and sandflies, Tahitian midges, which dance
beautifully, trap-door spiders and their resi-
dences and other lowly denizens of the New
Hebrides and the Marquesas Islands, then
get Evelyn Gheesman’s Hunting Insects in
the South Seas (Philip Allan; 10s. 6d.).
Miss Cheesman is a charming writer as
well as a distinguished entomologist, and
she seems to have a genuine affection for
the little creatures she describes. Her book
has a number of full-page- illustrations.
We That Were Young, by Irene Rath-
bone (Chatto and Windus; 7s. 6d.),
suffers from being a twice-told tale. It
might have been a best-seller in 1918. To-
day most of the war-time Y.A.D.’s, munition-
workers and drivers of staff cars are vaguely
embarrassed when they recall the lies they
believed and the rubbish they talked. “Iso-
thing Matters but Killing Huns.” “A War
to Make the World Safe for Democracy.
“We will Never Forget the Ones who
Fought : We will never Forgive the Ones
who Shirked.” That is the spirit that runs
all through this record of the lives of four
nice girls who “did their bit” from 1010
onwards. One of them looks round her
sadly ten years after^the Armistice: —
At Pamela in that home of hers, accomplishing
courageously the “daily task” but withering under
it —Pamela, who, more than any woman she knew,
needed and would have been made by love. At
Barbara, running Girl Guides in her Sussex village,
not embittered, but growing yearly a little more
old-maidish. At Betty, married now, but after how
many years?—and not to the man of her heart.
Miss Rathbone has revealed the period. She
remembers all the “ags, songs, heroics, re-
sentments and jokes of the men and women
in hospitals and base towns. Her book is
an effective sermon on human folly and
credulity. But the young won’t understand
the enthusiasms of her characters, and the
elderly are trying to forget that, they were
as mad as that themselves a decade ago.
And a Little Verse
GOOD WINE.
My wife is like a wine that’s still,
Yet with the splendent sun lias link:
Hock, claret, chablis, what you will,
So it be kindly, honest drink.
Her savor sends transmuting joy
Alchemic to my flagging brain.
A sweeter draught the mind would cloy:
With her I fill my glass again.
More cheering to the lips and breast
Than Devil’s dram or monk’s liqueur,
I know a vintage Heaven-prest;
And I’m intoxicate with her.
VICTORIA.
ALDMOR.
OLD PICTURE.
Pour high the beaded wine,
Frothing in gold it is;
See, in the taper-shine,
Cups curving like a kiss!
See in the taper-shine
Breasts curving like a cup;
Pour high the golden wine,
Fill the dark goblets up!
By time-wan tapestries
Hands seek through folding lace,
Out on black balconies
Face smoulders up to face.
Smoke curls and music falls,
Cups flash and bottles beam ;
Mark each bright bubble crawls
Up to the crystal rim.
Pass up the platters there,
Girl with dream-taunted face —
You with the rose-in-liair,
Curved shoulders drenched in lace!
Pass up the flagon, too,
Toss me a soft-skinned peach!
(Breasts like two globes of dew,
Close-pressing each to each.)
Smoke curls and candles bend.
Plates pile in careless heaps,
Prelude of yawns—the end —
Soft words —and softer sleep.
See, the last candle drips;
Fill the last cup, my dove;
Drain it with laughing lips—
Is it good-night, my love?
N.S.W.
ADRIAN SUMMERS.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) uriU be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Rougass; Don’t remember; but we prob-
ably told you this was a poor market for those wares.
.... H.P.: Just about as original as bacon-and-eggs
for breakfast.... H.J.: Much the same; but you
did add a little pepper and salt. ... G.E.8.: Don’t
like your rhyming scheme —especially the “evermore
must” and the “inmost core must.” It spoils the
dramatic effect... .Spind: Chances are that that idea
was in Cleopatra’s potpourri b0w1... .L.J.8.: Hope-
less; the rhyming is pathetic... .E.V.8.: Technique
is all right; but not much emotional quality....
Nawai: See “Exchange and the Leg-puller,” B.
2/3/’32. At the moment The B. has nothing to
add to that... .Diog. Jun.: Obliged; but rather off
our beat.... George M.: Rambles along with over-
done dialogue and explanations... .E.A.A.: Can’t
get ourselves to believe either of them....
Sylvia J. : Those four opening lines would kill any-
thing. Rest is better, but rather obvious... .N.P.:
Not within miles.... Feelicks: Come in, last verse of
your suggestion that one week we should print all
the verse that other weeks we reject:—
The sales would increase,
Your baskets be clean,
And we poor would-be poets—
Should we think you so mean?
At this stage your face,
I imagine, is grim.
Well, aim for the centre,
And don’t hit the rim.
E.S.C.: Now that’s a neat idea —your contri-
butions are like carrier-pigeons, they always return.
Anybody who can think things like that will be
disappointed some day. . . .S.N.Z.: Might have been
expressed in a dozen lines; you talk your gossamer
idea to shreds C.G. : Your question has been
referred to the basket. It yawned, too. . . .D.L.M.M.:
Well, at least it’s a new note, though not a strong-
one. . . .11.T.8.: Welcome, little stranger. We thought
that style was as dead as Prince Albert. ... H.P.W.:
Try a kiddies’ page Allan C.: Some feeling, but
no originality. Any good bookshop will have works
on the art of versifying. For the rest, read the
good poets. ... J. 1.: Sonnet nearly did it.. . .M.M.8.:
There’s little hope for anyone who tries to rhyme
“grandeur” and “languor”.. . .H.T.8.: About as
poetical as a railway guide. .. .H.H.: Doggerel, all
right, but not without a gleam of promise. .. .P. 8.:
It might make Goldsmith turn in his e->-ave. . . .
L.G.M.: One verse :
Then out spake brave De Grooty,
A captain in the Guard:
“A chap must do his duty
However harsh and hard.
And how can man be getting
The bells of Fame to clang
Louder than by upsetting
The apple-cart of Lang.
B.L.; —
It will go down in history,
How Lang failed to ope the Bridge.
It may do, but your “poem” won’t help to per-
petuate it....Esses Toe: Don’t doubt it, but it’s
been done to death in rhyma for half a century
E.L.T.: Pure silliness. .. .P.0.M.C.: Pleasant trifling,
no more.... The Bohemian: Reminds us of a prize
poem we wrote at school and failed to score with.
The judge pronounced it bald and turgid.... E.T.H.:
No use for reprints, translations from Goethe or
anything else... .R.H.D.: It doesn’t rhyme and it
doesn’t scan and there’s precious little sense in it.
....Casson: Well, we won’t cut a word of it this
time:—
THE CRITIC (A SERIAL)—CHAPTER 11.
You perpetrate a Threnody. Your girl says oh how
sweet!
And the critic goes for it. “Aha! Here’s something
good to eat.”
He chops it up and cuts it down, and worries it
like mad, M
Then hands you back, perhaps, half a word, remark-
ing, “Not so bad.”
(To be continued .)
....J.M.S.L.: Memorable to you, perhaps; not to
us F.E.0.N.: Flat-footed humor... .J.D.: Un-
polished, and your handwriting won’t improve editors’
tempers. .. . V.E.C.: It gets nowhere. . . .P.E.W. :
Obscure and over-padded... .A. 8.: Like a thousand
other reformed-crook yarns, except that you’re
wobbly on police procedure. .. . S.H.C.". Futile efforts
of newchum to kill a pig have had their day in
literature W.E.R.: Passing it on to the other
paper, as requested. .. .F. 11.: Too sugary for our
palate. .. .W.D.F.: All talk and no action E.A.W.:
Juvenile. .. .G. 8.: Would prefer one big tale to a
dozen little fellows D.P.C.: Sending Ikey home.
R.E.B.: The curtain lifts —to reveal nothing
unusual C.R.F. and D.C.: Readers could guess
the end before they were half-way through....
H.S.G.: Too long getting under way. .. .11.L.Y.: No.
E.C.R. : Hopeless... .J.A.8.: Has sincerity, but
is a bit thin R.T.A.: Conventional.... C.W.&'.
A literary squib 8.C.D.: Poor stories written in
eye-wrecking handwriting make even the Religious
Editor eurse H. 8.: Breaks no new ground
R.L.T.: A, splurge of words... .R.D.C.: Not worth
the writing.... Anon: “Morning Waits” is twice the
length required G.E.: Absurd C.E.: They need
to be shorter and more smartly written. .. .G.G.S.:
Mere wordspinning. .. .R.W. : Shows promise; the
end could be strengthened. .. .N.Iv.C.: A germ of
a notion there. . . .M.F.G.: Brightly done, but no room
for travel articles. .. .J.C.: It would take a Lewis
Carroll to handle the idea... . J.G.P.M.: Been done
before... .S.H.C.: Both lack polish... .E.P.: Frank
disappeared the second time into the w.p.b.....
F.C.A. : It has good points but writing lacks color.
. ...V.M.S.: Even a casual glance at the paper
should have shown you that we don’t print that
sort of nonsense. .. .0.W.8.J.: Heavy.. . .P.W.:
Would prefer something Australian... .F.II. (Coogjee) :
Not enough meat in it....F.11.: Third-rate tom-
foolery. .. . J.S.J.: Awful. . .B.S. : Put “The Bush-fire”
out. .. . J.T.: Crude, trivial and unoriginal. . . .A.C.:
Leave satire to satirists. .. .L.F.8.: Seven Days to
Live! Scotched it in seven seconds... .Foot-slogger;
“Ribemont” said it all p. 12, B. 9/3/’32.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.N. : Much obliged ; but far too complicated....
E.D.: About 20 fathoms below the mark... .R.E.:
One would need a long stretch of imagination to
visualise it in print K.U.F.: Don’t try to cover
every square inch with a mark of some sort....
L.J.G.: Stiff. .. .A.D.: You’ll need sharper tones
to get good reproduction... .J.T.: As unbending as
concrete F.D.R.: Get a clear idea of what you
want to draw before putting pencil to paper. ...
W.C.8.: Figures badly drawn, and too many scratchy
lines.... T.R.: Awful.


w
G
mm
i
■
mm
mm
mm
i
f
M 3 i
iiiiii
Ad
■
■ §
■HM
IMRW
1
■
P
i llitsili wtii
■
I
* 1
nr
#
i
Pi
wmmm
.
:
®Biili
.
y *
f
■ ■ ■ ■••. '■■■,:■ . ■ •■
i\ JH
Wmm /> _ “
w \ j ; v '
H
-
i—
' -P '/"p
■
s
|Si |§!|®Sj
■ ■
iSHHI
HHI
*
• - . - <i£S&is3®^®?3K
. w
■
ŵ


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 2721
April 6, 19325.
THE QUACK AND THE LEG-PULLER.
IVAN: “You poor fellow! You verra near starving, isn’t it? You all rotten insides. All vurms biting avay all der nourishings. But I can cure you, make you pig,
strong—like me. You take this!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252188 ; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 11, Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
S months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
S months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id., for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for l,oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
THE PIEBALD COMMUNIST.
Every political movement knows how
important it is in these days of a green
democracy to create the right atmosphere.
Every circus manager knew it long ago.
Every sideshow spruiker knows it now.
The big drum must be banged, the proces-
sion must parade, the impossible must be
promised; it must be the greatest show on
earth, the wonders the most wonderful, the
marvels the most marvellous. Mr. Theo-
dore must promise the Maitland miners
that they will be back at work in a fort-
night with not a penny off their pay or an
hour on their time; Mr. Lang’s men must
promise industrialists cheaper bread and
farmers dearer wheat. They must denounce
their political enemies as ruffians whose
dearest object in life is to throw hundreds
of thousands of men out of work and lock
up millions in the banks so that wages
may be reduced to £2 a week. And once a
year, when the men who have got them-
selves chosen as representatives of the
various branches of the Labor party meet
in conference, they must vie with one an-
other in picturing the miseries which the
people suffer in order that they may justify
the fantastic schemes which they put for-
ward to cure them. No Chinese “herbalist”
ever did better with his descriptions of
loathsome worms and other crawling devils
ravaging the patient’s interior and only
to be overcome by the mysterious mess
which he, Ah Slim, was able to concoct.
The more philosophic leaders of the
forward movement have, of course, tecog-
nised all this and have sometimes dreaded
the results. “Why does this tyrannic
minority lead the Socialist party in the
way it is not willing to go?” M. Fourniere
asked in “The Socialist Crisis,” and an-
swered: “All of us, beginning with extreme
Anarchists and ending with genuine Par-
liamentary Socialists, drag along the same
chain, the chain of fear, lest we should
appear not advanced enough to lead. Pale
and disconcerted, we all press forward to
a state of revolutionary panic which
would be ridiculous were not the abyss so
close.” It is the dread of the “basher”
gang over again—the dread of the indi-
vidual to be thought not true-blue or
courageous unless he does things which he
would otherwise never dream of doing.
The misfortune is that so many of these
fantastic propositions, put forward and
accepted by men who fear that otherwise
they will be thought less advanced than
leaders should be, become the policy of a
party; and that is true of movements out-
side Australia as well as within it. It
explains why in Russia Kerensky is fol-
lowed by Trotsky, and Trotsky by Lenin,
and Lenin by Stalin. Nobody can do the
impossible things that are promised; and
when one fails another more unprincipled
promiser takes his place, until somebody
comes who so entrenches himself that he
need not even pretend to be capable of
carrying out his programme. The success
of the leader in these circumstances thus
depends not so much on his ability to do
things as on his ability to prevent trouble
because they are not done. This it is that
made Lenin great; but he had to get rid of
Trotsky first—Trotsky, who now lives in
exile in Turkey and dare not move even
into Slovakia without permission and with-
out leaving his wife behind as a hostage.
To-day in Russia half the fantastic pro-
gnoses that were made by men who feared
that they would not be thought advanced
enough if they did not make them have
been forgotten. The flat rate of pay for
workers has been abandoned. The active
and intelligent and diligent are rewarded;
the pay is based not upon needs but upon
output; and the man who earns good money
can spend it in getting those luxuries for
which only a few years ago it was fatal to
even express a wish.
This fear of being thought not advanced
enough for leadership produces another in-
teresting result. Just as Captain de Groot
got more attention than Premier Lang be-
cause he did something that was not in
the programme, so it is possible for any of
these other gentlemen to get the limelight
by submitting what they regard as very
daring propositions which have nothing to
do with the matter in hand. Thus we had
at a recent Labor conference in Sydney,
at which Communism was cordially
endorsed, a proposition warmly approving
of “self-determination” for Ireland. And
there were bold hints that if there is any
attempt by the Commonwealth to make
N. S. Wales pay its debts, force will be
used in favor of “self-determination” there
also. Now, self-determination is merely
another name for individualism. A group
of men believe that they will be better off
ruling themselves, managing their own
affairs in their own way, and the men who
approve of self-determination say that they
have the inherent right to do it. In a
general way organised Labor and in a
particular way Communism denies them
that right. The good of the mass, it holds,
is the first and only consideration. You
cannot give self-determination to a group
of a million and deny it to a group of a
hundred; and if a hundred have the right,
so has one—the right, for example, to
decide whether he will belong to a union
or not.
You can have Communism, then, or you
can have patriotism; but you cannot have
them both. One or the other must go.
“The working class must rid itself not only
from party obligations and from solidarity
with Democracy, but from all pledges to
nation and State,” one internationalist de-
clares. “The idea of native country,” Brouil-
het writes, “associates groups whose inter-
ests are conflicting, and it directs that
loosely connected aggregate called patriot-
ism against classes whose interests are
identical.” “The Workmen’s Fatherland,”
writes another, “is our class. Our inter-
nationalism knows no boundaries. Capital-
ism is for us the only enemy to fight.”
And Lagardelle, the most famous expositor
of them all, declared that “the destruction
of the State is a preliminary condition to
the triumph of the proletariat The
existence of the State is possible only so
long as it bases itself on the fiction of
general citizenship, and throws into the
shade the difference between working men
and capitalists.”
The position, then, is that, under our
system of rich rewards for all manner of
delegates and representatives, the candidates
are driven by fear of not being thought
advanced enough—driven to make promises
which cannot be fulfilled and which, in
many cases, they know cannot be fulfilled.
It is all an elaborate system of leg-pulling,
ah an exercise of precisely the same arts
as those of the spruiker at the door of
the sideshow. It explains why every ex-
periment in Communism has failed
hitherto, and why almost every other poli-
tical system or policy falls short of expec-
tations. It explains why there is a change
of Government at almost every general
election, through the swing-over of dis-
illusioned electors. At one time we were
content to make changes merely of Min-
isters. To-day the spruikers outside the
political tents must have something more
startling than that to catch the ear, and the
pay and power which are behind the ear.
They propose, therefore, to upend our whole
system of civilisation. Well, they will not
do much harm if only we will realise that
they are spruikers outside the political
tents; that they are driven to offer absurd
things by fear lest they should not be
thought advanced enough for the job to
which they aspire. And we ought to realise
as well that, while most of the good fruit
which the spruiker promises to pluck from
the tree of Communism never ripens, there
are things which have to be definitely
abandoned. And not the least of these
things is love of country.
THE WORLD’S DEBTS.
Inasmuch as they seem to have given
the nation a new point of view, it is
impossible not to extract a little satisfac-
tion out of the difficulties in which the
U.S.A. find themselves. They had a period
of extraordinary prosperity, dating from
the first days of the Great War, when the
nations of Europe were driven to make vast
purchases abroad. Later on, when it was
not possible to finance the purchases other-
wise, America lent Britain and, through
Britain, the other warring nations very large
sums of money, with which it paid itself
for supplies; and thus began the unprece-
dented flow of gold into the republic. Gold
attracting gold, holders voluntarily sent
other large amounts in the same direction;
and the boom that followed was the great-
est in history. Then the whole economic
structure of the world crashed; and to-day
the U.S.A. have a larger army of unem-
ployed than ever before afflicted one
country in the world’s history.
During the flush years there was the usual
burst of extravagance. The public debt
of the United States on Federal, State and
municipal account was equal to 1010 mil-
lion pounds in 1912. It is now, 20 years
later, 6067 million pounds. In these 20
years five times more has been added to the
public debt than had been accumulated in
all the country’s long previous history.
Australia has done badly enough; its history
over 20 years was:—
1911. 1931.
Commonwealth . . .. £15,580,000 £388,718,000
State 267,127,000 767,317,000
£282,707,000 £1,156,035,000
But while the American public debt in-
creased sixfold, that of Australia multiplied
no more than fourfold. And with the
increase in American debt has come a col-
ossal increase in expenditure on revenue
account. The total outgoings of govern-
ment increased from 2040 million dollars
in 1912 to 12,000 million dollars last year.
In the course of that great boom which
followed the unprecedented flow of gold into
America there was, among other things,
a huge appreciation in ratable property
values. These were among the first to col-
lapse, and great cities, with vast works pro-
grammes in hand, were in instant difficulties.
The troubles of New York itself, falling on
top of a steady crop of bank failures aver-
aging 300 a month for months past—the
October record was 522—came as a shock
to the nation. In the last 12 weeks of the
year deposits in the reporting banks—cover-
ing most of the field—fell no less than 2315
million dollars: approximately £480,000,000.
The ordinary stock of 46 listed companies
had an aggregate market value of 4600 mil-
lion dollars at the beginning of 1931; by
the end of the year they were down to 1100
million dollars, a shrinkage of 76 p.c. Still
earlier there had been a movement in that
very sensitive commodity, gold. For years
it had seemed to flow naturally into the
U.S.A.; in six weeks to the end of October
it had flowed out to the extent of 408 mil-
lion dollars, and another 408 millions had
been transferred to . foreign ownership,
which was equivalent to export—a total
equal to £170,000,000 in gold lost in six
weeks. Setting off 86 million dollars brought
in, the net loss in six weeks cancelled the
increase in two years. Publication of such
figures produced a hoarding of gold un-
known in any previous period in any other
white country, accompanied by almost fren-
zied liquidation. The whole position was
reflected by the announcement of an esti-
mated Federal Treasuiy deficit of 2122 mil-
lion dollars (£442,000,000) for the fiscal year
to June 30, 1932.
America has so much bullion that aban-
donment of payment in gold need not be
seriously considered. But other very im-
portant results may follow. Probably the
war debts constitute the crux of the world-
position; more and more certain it seems
that there can be no quick recovery, if any
recovery at all, without the cancellation of
the bulk of these debts. Thus far the
United States have, officially, declined to
listen to any suggestion of that hature.
To every approach Congress has replied:
“You owe us this money; pay us. Others
owe you money; collect from them.” It
does, however, seem that from its difficul-
ties America is learning wisdom—is learn-
ing that the creditor may suffer just as
much as the debtor if the latter is held to a
bargain which he cannot fulfil. Especially
what America seems at last to realise is that
it is not the debt which is challenged: it is
the impossibility of paying the debt in
the currency of the creditor nation. It is
significant that the National City, one of
the great banks of New York, should be
now found putting this difficulty in a cir-
cular:—
The view prompting the demands is perhaps
accurately reflected in the comment that Germany
could pay reparations by reducing the consumption
of beer to the extent of one glass daily per person.
If that quantity of beer would equal in value the
reparations payments and the creditor powers would
accept it as covering the payments, there would be-
some point in the comment; but the creditor
powers want gold instead of beer.
Whether the * settlement of these inter-
governmental debts will be sufficient to get
the world out of its troubles is neverthe-
less uncertain. Everything depends upon
the extent to which such a settlement would
result in a recovery of prices. If prices
do not rise, then all international debts
may have to be revised before world pros-
perity can be restored. “If,” Sir Joseph
Stamp, foremost of English economists, said
the other day—“if real prices do not rise,
obligations will have to be written down.
Otherwise you will bankrupt all the debtor
countries and ruin all the creditor countries.
You have, for instance, a South American
State owing so much coffee. The value of
gold rises and you find yourself entitled
to claim double the amount of coffee your
debtor originally bargained for. You really
ought not to be surprised if, in the cir-
cumstances, you get over-production.”
ARE WE POOR SALESMEN?
In one week The Bulletin has had letters
from three continents declaring that local
people are anxious to buy Australian goods
but can’t get them—either can’t get them
at all or can’t get them regularly. The
first cry came from Rhodesia, in Africa:
this correspondent alleges that, so far as
he can ascertain (and he is the managing
director of a local trading co), no attempt
has been made to sell Australian goods
there, though it is a large buyer of tinned
meats and similar products. The second
complaint is from Calgary, in Canada; a
few months ago, this writer says, the whole
Dominion was talking about the possibili-
ties of trade with Australia, and a good
buying atmosphere was created—and then,
apparently, no attempt was made to keep
up a supply of goods. The third letter is
from Kampar, in the Federated Malay
States, and puts the case with rather
startling directness:—
Many Chinese shops carry an odd line or two of
Australian goods, and if you ask why they do not
stock more, the invariable reply is ‘We can’t
get them.’ Lately one of the biggest wholesale
houses in Singapore advertised IO'O lines of Rosella
goods. Greatly interested, I talked to friends of a
good time coming, and got them keenly interested,
t°°- Then came this letter from the wholesale
oase:
R f ell a manufacturers have not been
fOTe very s^ x , t ‘ of ° st r o(^ < ll lirements and we al 'e there-
i used t 0 live in Australia n i„«
parts 12 years ago), and know the Australian's
casual habits, and am therefore not greatly surprised -
hard to mak e other people understand. All
th ® ' lh j: wol ' ld J s so eager to sell things
supplies to its wholes w not , keepillg up ' suttidcn t
They simply will not fcountJy 0 aniged
to be as hard up as Australia is could be so in-
Afferent to trading possibilities,
, A ) nd the lieglecd leal b 7 is the more astounding
favorable exchange has been ver y
l , to Audral,a ; It never has had so good
a chance to develop Its dealings with Malaya • and
m a commercial assault on these parts it would be
greatly helped by that stiffening of Australians who
co .”[ lt tor a good deal in the community, and who
0 exee P tlon known to me are good
p ,
X lie ma n which brought that letter an-
otner came from Ipoh (F.M.S.): this corre-
s Pon ent had sent to one of the large whole-
f a]e nouses tor various lines of two other
T / g j- j uytlaJ)an iood-manuifacturing firms,
. not have them, had not even got
( ie ustralian firms’ price lists, and, as
lar as tne manager knew, had never been
a PP loi }ched for orders, nor received any
m oin ri c s as to the possibility of business,
. R , 1S difficult to do the things
wfuch the foreign buyer asks for. But it
18 Jnst as dirhcult for others as it is for us:
* n ° re difficult, for people who speak a dif-
eio l n l ' f° n gue. Yet they are tackling the
P ro .~lem m a thorough-going way. There
18 nardiy & country in Europe which has
Export Bureau, from which
lfcS . u ® reports of the exporting industries
P 1 'ntcd m; half a dozen languages—the
ftahan monthly export bulletin in English
a perfect document of its sort; and the
Swedish is even more impressive. Only
Australia, of all the exporting countries,
B ® ems f° think that the buyer will come to
d,be _ se er a . save him the expense of
a sa e 8 OTF'Tnisation. Our experience with
w ° ol ar ? d wbeat doubtless has been mainly
ies Ponsible for this. The buyers for these
&oods have come to us; to the extent that
y 0 | ia^e sold vheat abroad, the selling
I S , done by, at most, half a dozen
broker firms, who have probably never had
send out a salesman in their lives. Now
, e fl ue ß l( ? n begins to be very seriously
a sked whether even as to our wool we have
a dopted the best system of selling—whether
our nice > ea sy way is not, in fact, a very
na ®J :y ’ wasteful way.
Whatever the fact may be as to wool and
w ? there can be no question that our
° ther Products will not sell themselves; and
j, 18 very doubtful whether a sales service
that seems to meet all requirements in Aus-
traha wIU meet foreign requirements. Here
a § ai ? l our T^ ay of has moulded our
conduct. We h&ve all of us lived more or
less the pioneer s■ life, putting up with things
which are not tolerated by people who have
,ed in an older civilisation. It is no good
telling these people that they are too fussy,
the quality of the goods is not im-
Proved by better wrapping, that our food
is good and sound and wholesome, and that
if it is not always exactly of the same
quality—what does it matter? If the buyer
„„ v „ rT , n r+ p ..„ u 1 u i •
matters, it does mattei , and that is
there IS aDOUt it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Federal Government and Langism.
Addressing a party meeting in Sydney, Pri-
minister Lyons last week said that “so long
as Langism remained the position for Aus-
tralia as a whole was hopeless. If the
opportunity was given to-morrow to the
people of N. S. Wales to pass judgment
upon the N. S. Wales Government, he
had no doubt whatever about the result.”
Well, what has Mr. Lyons done about it?
There is only one direct way to get Lang
and his Ministers to the country, and that
is to dissolve Parliament; and this can be
done only by the Governor. The Federal
Government has no control at all over a
State Governor; has no right even to com-
municate with him. But it has a right to
communicate with his employers, and his
employers have a right to consult with him
and even direct him.
And they must be prepared to exercise
that right. We know what the Internation-
alists are doing; we know that, directed
from Russia, a world-wide Communist
propaganda is in progress. We know that
part of this Internationalist propaganda is
the dismemberment of the Empire. We
know that, admittedly, the rule of a “con-
scious minority” is the first thing aimed at.
How this “conscious minority” is to get
control is to be left to time and circum-
stance. We know that it is possible to cor-
rupt Governments. But it is not necessary
to assume corruption; no doubt a Ministry
might be convinced by argument that the
best course is to dismember the Empire
and embrace Communism. It is not, how-
ever, enough for a Ministry to be convinced.
If the people say yes, no more can, of
course, be said about it. But if it is pro-
posed that the people’s self-governing rights
shall be stolen from them—if their rights
are to be taken without their sanction and
authority—then obviously it is the duty
of the Crown (in the first instance the
Governor) to insist that nothing shall be
done until the people are consulted.
But now another possibility arises. If it is
possible for the Internationalists to persuade


Ministers, corruptly or otherwise, we have
to consider the possibility of the persuasion
of a Governor, corruptly or otherwise. It is
not necessary, nor is there any reason, o
suggest that anything of the sort has hap-
pened, but the possibility of it makes _it
necessary that the Crown, represented by
the British Government, should be pre-
pared to exercise its right not only of con-
sultation with a Governor but of direction.
If it is not prepared to exercise that right,
then the Imperial connection becomes m
that respect a danger, inasmuch as it then
sets up a rampart behind which the Empue-
dismembering Bolshevik might work without
danger of disturbance.
In this case Mr. Lyons says that while
Langism lasts the position for Australia as
a whole is hopeless. He declares, moreover,
that he has “no doubt whatever” that N. o.
Wales would dismiss the Lang Government
to-morrow if it could get the chance. Surely
that warrants even the most extraordinary
action on the part of the Commonwealth
Government. Is there a single thing short
of crime that it is not only justified m
doing, but called upon to do to save the
country from its hopelessness? Thus far it
has played about with indirect methods.
It would probably have saved months of
national “hopelessness” if the unorthodox
but entirely democratic method had been
adopted of asking the British Government
to instruct its representative to order an
appeal to the people. That request should
have gone from the Commonwealth Par-
liament three months ago.
4
Plot fox- a Great Australian Novel.
He was a freeborn Australian. He breathed
the air of liberty in a land where free-
dom had been fought for by innumerable
patriots. He enjoyed the benefits of the
most enlightened constitution in the world.
He was protected by the noblest body of
laws ever concocted. The police who
administered those laws were above corrup-
tion. The Judges who interpreted them
had never been suspected of partiality.
But he was also a barber, and he had a
wife and five children. As a barber he was
a member of the barbers’ union. As a
member of the barbers’ union he was sub-
ject not only to the laws of the State and
the Commonwealth, but also to the rules
and regulations of the barbers’ union. As a
matter of fact, he knew next to nothing
about the laws of the State, but by pain-
ful experience he knew quite a lot about
the rules and regulations of his union. He
had only faint knowledge of Chief Justice
This and Chief Justice That, and he was
but dimly aware that there was somebody
called a Prime Minister. But he knew,
definitely and absolutely, that there was a
union secretary.
One of the rules of the union was that
if he took a job without the written consent
of the union secretary he was liable to sus-
pension or expulsion or a fine of £lO. If
he were expelled he could starve before he
could get a job. If he remained in the
union and the union secretary didn’t like
him, he could starve just as effectively
inside the union as outside it. Somehow
this irked him. Perhaps he had the feeling
for liberty in his blood. He didn’t like the
union secretary, and the union secretary
reciprocated his lack of affection. He took
a job without the secretary’s consent in
writing or otherwise. The union secretary
told him he was a traitor to the Movement.
He was told he would be suspended at the
next meeting. They had words and got
heated. He couldn’t remember afterwards
who got in the first blow, but at the end of
the scuffle he was lying on his back on the
floor of the Trades Hall, his citadel of
liberty, looking very hurt and indignant.
He felt he had been unfairly treated—in
fact, brutally assaulted. When a free citi-
zen of the Commonwealth is assaulted he
usually calls for the police. But the barber
was a unionist as well as a free citizen.
The rules and regulations of the union for-
bade a unionist to appeal to any Court for
redress of a grievance, real and/or imagi-
nary.
So the barber got up, dusted himself,
bought a piece of plaster from a chemist
to put on the crack in his head, and went
home to his wife and children. In due
course he received by post the information
that he was no longer a member of the
union. He then proceeded to starve com-
fortably.
4
The Doomed Monster.
Characteristic letter from Darwin:—
In Bulletin 27/l/’32 a contributor wrote about
“the self-conscious Australian.” A youth, a blind-
hanger, had to go into the boss’s room in a city
office to do a job, and, so the contributor thinks, he
was so self-conscious he forced himself to whistle
as he worked, and only left off when he saw that
nobody was taking any notice. The boy’s behavior
was, in fact, but an incident in .a world-wide moral
revolution, the shedding by the masses of the age-
old inferiority and servility complex, which has so
long held them in bondage to the exploiter. It is
essential to the existence of capitalism that this
complex be maintained, and the already great rips
in it repaired. That the exploiters with the army
of canines, courtesans and catamites, who lick their
hands, are feeling less and less sure of themselves
is shown by the ever more and more frantic anti-red
howl, ranging from the senile droolings of the dotard
Beale a few years ago to the brilliant onslaughts
of Sir Ernest Benn recently. The anguished howls
of the doomed monster make good listening.
Granted that the youth in this case wanted
to show that he was as good as the other
fellow, the question still remains: What did
he want to do it for? Who said he wasn’t as
good? The boss never suggested it. No
modern boss ever does suggest it. He is too
busy telling his staff how important every
member of it is.
But who is the exploiter? Last month the
balance-sheet and accounts of a company
called General Industries, Ltd., were pub-
lished. For several years this inter-State
co., the leader in its line, paid very mod-
erate dividends, averaging, for itself and its
predecessor, under 8 p.c. p.a. In the past
two years it has made a loss of £146,000;
and it now owes the bank and sundry
creditors over £200,000. Who are the ex-
ploiters in this case—the handful of men
who have lost money by the bucketful in
trying to keep this business going and the
workmen engaged, or the workmen who
have obviously been paid more than they
have earned?
Fifty-two years ago two young fellows
named Haynes and Archibald started a
weekly paper in Sydney. They had a couple
of hundred pounds or so, and they risked the
lot. Haynes had to drop out, and lost every
penny he put in; the brilliant Archibald’s
interest was only saved through the gener-
osity of his friend Macleod. After 30-odd
years Archibald, who had. ruined his health
by his prodigious efforts, sold his interest
and retired with a moderate fortune. Who
was the exploiter? Was Archibald —this
man who used his genius to build up a
business which, as it was announced at a
small ceremony recently, has in its career
been a market for upwards of 55,000 black-
and-white drawings, besides tens of thou-
sands of short stories and millions of articles
and paragraphs? Those are the entries on
one side; and what did he get out of it?
No more than a frugal living. But after he
was dead the artists of Australia got £lO,OOO
for a portrait-prize, the city got £lO,OOO for
a fountain, and science got a handsome
bequest for cancer research.
Would Archibald have done all this (and
Archibald’s case is merely one of thousands)
if there had been no possibility of profit?
He had to . make his living: therefore, he
certainly would not have started the thing
except with the hope of profit. Later, had
there been no hope of profit, friends with
money would certainly not have gone to
the rescue and enabled the thing to be car-
ried on. And a hundred times afterwards
he would not have spent himself as he did
had there been no promise of reward.
“Capitalism” can stimulate effoi-ts which
yield the “exploited” a million times more
than tlj.e “exploiter” ever gets; and without
capitalism, without the hope of reward, no-
body has yet shown how those efforts can
be stimulated. In Russia they no longer
pretend that it is possible.
• ♦
Mr. Bavin.
If Mr. Bavin had more imagination he
might have made a more successful party
leader. It was his misfortune that he came
to the front when the electorate was to a
great extent demoralised, and a very low
conception of the purpose of Parliament
prevailed. He was too unbending for the
times: he insisted upon putting the case
as starkly as it presented itself to him,
modifying nothing, offering nothing which
he did not believe the future could pay.
But he always stopped too soon. “You
must go through purgatory,” he told the
people in effect; and every time he painted
a gloomy picture of the proceedings in that
state. A leader with more imagination
would have gone on to picture the delights
of the paradise which purgatory would
open to them. Mr. Bavin was too ready to
pull up on a note of expiation and suffer-
ing instead of one of reward and joy.
And, after all, a party leader’s job is to
put his case in the honest way best calcu-
lated to get it accepted. For that purpose
he has to know the electorate, its weak-
nesses as well as its robust virtues, and on
the depth of that knowledge and on his
capacity for responding to its needs his suc-
cess will mainly depend. Mr. Bavin has
all the qualities of a high-principled gentle-
man and a sterling patriot; if other quali-
ties—no doubt poorer qualities—were half
as well developed, N. S. Wales might have
been much less the Mad Dog of the Federa-
tion than it is to-day.
+
The Real Mackay.
Two years ago certain high police officers
in N. S. Wales fell under the displeasure
of “the movement” because of their exer-
tions in the cause of order during the New-
castle-Maitland strike. It is customary for
threats to be issued against policemen on
these occasions, threats of what “Labor”
will do to them when it has the oppor-
tunity: but after the suppression of the
riot at Rothbury Superintendent Beattie,
who was in charge of police operations there,
and Detective-§uperintendent Mackay, his
chief lieutenant, were assailed with particu-
lar fury. Amidst the cheers of the mob,
Mr. Mackay was hotly described by Mr.
Badly, now Minister of Labor and Industry,
as “this Flying Scotsman.” “The time will
come,” Mr. Badly added, “when the
Mackays will be put in their place, where
they should have been long ago.” Rather
forcible-feeble stuff, but in another sentence
the delighted mob was assured that when
“Labor” got into power Mackay would
“either be sacked or transferred to some
out-back town.” -
Superintendent Beattie has not been dis-
missed, but he has not been forgiven. The
other gentleman has won sudden and
astonishing favor in the sight of “the
movement” which denounced him so pas-
sionately. He has been lifted over the
heads of Superintendent Beattie and other
officers, his superiors in rank, to the post
of Acting-Metropolitan Superintendent, and
it is confidently expected that he will be
Commissioner before long if the going
remains good. During the week before he
was thus exalted he delivered himself of
the opinion that Captain de Groot, ot
bridge-opening celebrity, was off his head.
Asked for the evidence on which he based
this conclusion, he said (“S. M. Herald
report) “he had met de Groot before, in
connection with Communist meetings at
King’s Cross. De Groot had said that the
depression and economic state of the
country had ruined him, and, blamed the
Government in power for it.” If this is
proof of insanity, then quite 50,000 N. »•
Wales citizens should not be at large; but
the testimony must have been immensely
gratifying to politicians previously hostile.
The “Labor Daily’s” remarks on the
Mackay appointment are significant:
Mr. W. H. Childs, the Commissioner of Police,
reached the retiring age of 60 last Thursday. Jt
is a matter for Cabinet to decide whether the usual
extension of five years is granted to Mr. Childs In
his capacity as virtual Metropolitan Superintendent,
the activities of the 800 Guard will come under the
personal supervision of Mr. Mackay. Should his
appointment as Metropolitan Superintendent be con-
firmed after the usual period, he will be next in
line for the Commissionership. For that reason, his
handling of the 800 Guard will be watched very
closely by the Labor Movement.
On Friday, when De Groot figured in the
Central Court on the three charges laid
against him after the fatheaded and insult-
ing attempt to prove him insane broke
down, police under Mr. Mackay’s direction
hustled the public away from the approaches
to the court, and citizens who were not
interested in the case, and were going
about their lawful occasions, have protested
that they were roughly handled in the pro-
cess. Be that as it may, the “Sun” printed
the following:—
When all the excitement had apparently passed,
Supt. Mackay was walking slowly down Liverpool-
street, from the direction of Pitt-street. Almost
opposite the court gates he came face to face with
a New Guardsman, wearing a brown armband. Mr.
Mackay walked straight up to him, and, saying
“You have no right to wear that in a public street,
tore the band from his arm. The New Guardsman
stepped back in surprise and said to Mr. Mackay,
“Pardon me. I” Mr. Mackay turned to a con-
stable, handed him the armband and said, “Put
him off the street!” The constable caught the man
by the arm, and marched him up Liverpool-street
towards Pitt-street.
Talleyrand had a standing instruction to
his staff: “Above all things, not too much
zeal.” The words are as applicable to
police-superintendents who bask in the un-
certain smiles of Labor politicians as they
are to young diplomats.
♦
The Navigation Act.
No law was ever better intentioned than
our Navigation Act, and few laws have
witnessed more serious changes during a
brief currency. Our inter-State trade has
fallen away, half our ships are tied up or
sold, services have been abandoned, and,
in days when coastal passenger traffic ought
to have benefited greatly by the practical
suspension of overseas travel, there are
less than half the sailings of a few years
ago. Further, there are, it is declared by
union officials, 2000 unemployed seamen in
Australia; and unemployed vessels mean
also few repair jobs and slack times in the
bunkering and other trades.
Yet while so many of our ships are rot-
ting in the bays, foreign ships are busy
loading our wheat and our wool. Lately
a Jap fleet has come to Sydney for wheat
and flour: scarcely one of them was the
equal of many of our own steamers that
are out of commission. Ships of almost
every other nation of the world come into
Australian ports for loading. Most of them
have lately come this way in ballast.
Apparently it pays everybody but Aus-
tralians to carry Australian produce, de-
spite the fact that the Australian freighter
would have a far better chance than most
of the tramps of at least some back-loading.
Is it any wonder that so many of our
ships have been sold in despair and at such
absurd prices that, in some cases, the wheat
or other freight which has been arranged for
them has paid a large part of the purchase
price? The story that the men would not
accept lower wages or worse conditions is
rubbish; and it is proved to be rubbish
by the keen demand for those few jobs in
foreign ships which become available in
Australian ports.
The whole business wants overhauling.
When this Act was passed and when rates
and conditions were fixed under it, we were
enjoying a bogus prosperity. We have now
reached the uncomfortable stage of paying
the bill; and everything that was done in
the former days calls for review. We can
only make matters worse by postponing
that operation, no matter how painful it
may be.
Java and Russia.
The biological aspects of the Russian Five-
year Plan deserve more attention than, they
have had. Male statesmen have a habit of
making elaborate arrangements for the
future, but the human mother has a habit
of going on her immemorial path and up-
setting the political apple-cart.
The experience of Java is instructive in
this respect. Our near neighbor had a
“plan” once. It was started in 1833.
Holland had expended her wealth in. the
war of secession with Belgium. There was
no money in the coffers, and the milch cow
of the Indies was running dry; debts were
piling up, and the prospect looked dis-
astrous. Then the famous Governor Van
den Bosch came to the rescue by establish-
ing the cultuurstelsel. This was a method
of forced labor, much on the Soviet model.
Bosch took one-fifth of each native’s land
in place of rent; and the native himself
was obliged to work a variable number of
days for the State. Sometimes it amounted
to as much as 60 days devoted to cultivat-
ing “rich erops” for the Government. Sugar,
coffee, indigo and tobacco were planted on
the land taken from the peasant. The State
leased the land to contractors, who under-
took to feed the workers sufficiently to keep
them alive and pay a fixed price for the
crop in advance, again on the Soviet model.
In a very short time a rain of gold began
to fall upon Holland. Despite the fact that
Java then had only a tithe of its present
population, it was estimated that 166 mil-
lion pounds was extracted from the island
in a single decade. The chiefs, who might
be called the Communist party, were won
over by liberal bonuses on their extortions.
Incidentally, Van den Bosch wished to
crown his work by building fortifications at
Sourabaya, Samarang and other places, just
as the Soviets are building the largest air
fleet in the world and maintaining an enor-
mous standing army.
Then Holland got a bad conscience.
Java’s Stalin was universally execrated and
his system was abolished. Nevertheless, it
produced effects which are still being felt
in that tropical paradise. The natives
acquired habits of industry, a vast amount
of jungle was turned over to production,
roads and railways opened up new country,
and on the trade figures the colony has
grown ever more prosperous. The increase
in production led to a slight improvement
in the living standards of the native, but
to a tremendous increase in the population.
In 1813 it was less than six millions. To-
day it is nearing 40 millions.
There is no reason to suspect that it will
be any different in Russia. The Russian
peasant is on little higher cultural level
than the Javanese tani. His needs are as
small, his desire for progeny just as exces-
sive. It may be that in another 100 years
there will be seven moujiks scratching the
soil of Russia where there is one to-day.
Of course the Soviet may realise the situ-
ation and include a birth-control bureau
amongst its numerous departments, for ele-
vating the status of its helots; if so, it
will be the first Government that ever
did it.
4
Wireless and Culture.
The Post Office has evolved a scheme
whereby the standard of our broadcasting
programmes will be improved. It proposes
to establish “C” stations, “C,” it points
out, standing for “culture,” not . “cant,” as
some have supposed. The idea is to trans-
fer the highbrow music from the existing
stations, where it causes acute discomfort
to the noisiest of listeners, to the new
stations, which will work on wave lengths
above 1000 metres. This means that many
—perhaps most—lovers of highbrow music
will have to buy new sets if they want to
avail themselves of the scheme. Few of
them are well supplied with this world’s
goods, so the scheme is apparently designed
for the benefit of the inhabitants of Mars
—music is an international language which
all can understand, and there is no reason
why it shouldn’t be an inter-planetary lan-
guage as well. The English 8.8. C. still
works on the old-fashioned idea of inter-
polating good music with ordinary enter-
tainment, and it is claimed that this has
had excellent effects on the nation’s ear.
With us it has remained for a good demo-
crat, badly advised, to make fine music the
privilege of the well-to-do.
4
Sugar.
Dear Bulletin, —There would be little agita-
tion to cut the assistance given to the sugar-
grower if the public were not compelled by
a powerful combine to use only the highest
grade of sugar in the world, dhe Austra-
lian housewife is not allowed to rise any
other grade but refined, and in this respect
is placed at a disadvantage in comparison
with the householder in Britain, where vari-
ous grades of useable sugar are sold ovei
the counter. This is denied us only be-
cause the Australian refiners can make and
are making large profits out of refining. Co-
operative mills in the N. Queensland sugai
districts turned out a first-class mill-white
raw sugar, and still could if they were per-
mitted to do so; and if the consumers
could purchase this mill-white product a
lot of the prejudice , against the industry
would vanish.
Mill whites are good enough for any-
body, and if sugar direct from the raw
manufacturer to the consumer could be
obtained, a lot more of the product would
be used. This would help the over-produc-
tion problem and, incidentally, help to-
wards lowering the cost of living.
The growers of sugar-cane cannot be
blamed for the high retail price of refined
sugar. Growers receive well under £2O
per ton as a basic price for the product,
whilst the refiner gets about £36 per ton;
the consumer living in the districts where
the product is grown pays at the rate ot
£46 13s. 4d. per ton over the retailers
counter—Yours, A. D. S.


“Never let smoking
give you a sore throat”
CRAVEN “A
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years’ Reputation for Quality
■ -■
POLITICAL
POINTS
J. Bull has wound up his financial year,
which ends in March, with a surplus of
£364,000. When six months had gone he
was threatened with a deficit of £75,000,000.
Lang in the same situation would have
started a daily Government lottery; filled the
land with tin-hare courses, “fruit” machines,
milk and meat boards, transport commissions
and dole inspectors; raised the income tax
to 19s. in the £; brought in a 44-hour
week; established a moratorium (and con-
tracted out of it as regards the interest on his
loan to the “Daily Herald”) ; denounced the
public creditors as bloodsuckers and cheated
them of their interest; given himself three
cheers for “deleting that iniquitous thing
the sanctity of the written contract,” and
announced that “the Revolution” had
arrived. J. Bull just relied on courage and
honesty, and courage and honesty have
pulled him through.
A large portion of the money which Lyons
is trying to recover from Lang by summary
procedure is owed to the people of the Com-
monwealth and the people’s bank. A lot
of it was raised on the pretence that Lang
would adhere to the Premiers’ plan, since
repudiated. As the Auditor-General has cer-
tified, £152,698 represents discount at 4 p.c.
“on £18,320,000 Treasury bills issued by the
Commonwealth on behalf of N. S. Wales in
Australia,” and £111,740 is interest and
exchange “in respect of the N.S.W. propor-
tion of Commonwealth debentures held by
the Commonwealth Bank, London,” £40,400
being “due in Australia.” Perhaps bilking
is the Lang way of “building a Bridge of
Common Understanding that will serve the
Whole of the People of our Great Continent,”
as he blithered on the morning when De
Groot —the “foreigner,” the “Dublin-born
Dutchman” of “Labor Daily” invective —
forestalled him.
The U.A.P., N.S.W. branch, has started
badly by wrangling at, its first convention
and declaring for pre-selection—“only one
candidate to stand.” The N.S.W. Cockies
have never found “the open go” a handicap ;
on the contrary, it has given them a better
lot of members, taking them by and large,
than the Nats. A delegate from Singleton
strove to get the democratic principle
adopted, saying that some of the Nat. pre-
selection swindles were “just as bad as the
Labor ballots at which we point the finger
of scorn” ; but he strove in vain.
Lang has defaulted on three more lots of
overseas interest—two due in London and
the other in New York. The Commonwealth
Government paid all three, the bill amount-
ing to 1,110,000! Australian pounds. When
the tin-hare and bank-smashing Premier
entered upon his career of default, he
“scaled” the British and paid the Ameri-
cans, hoping, as it now seems, that the
latter would be so gratified that they would
“The N.S.W. Government defaulted in payment of
interest on the first of April, as it did on the
first of April, 1931.”
Still the April Fool.
come to light with more loans. But there
is a freemasonry in these matters, and the
Yanks made common cause with the Eng-
lish ; in fact, their newspapers flayed Lang
savagely, whereas English criticism was com-
paratively restrained. So the tin-hare dic-
tator now “scales” both John and Jonathan
—as far as he can manage it. Probably
he gets a bit more pleasure out of “scaling”
Jonathan since his anti-British gesture was
unappreciated.
The heads of the sugar industry in Queens-
land heap scorn upon the Auditor-General’s
recent statement that “to import the sugar
required for Australia would cost about
£2,000,000.” This, they say, is “equivalent
to stating that sugar can be landed in Aus-
tralia for £6 13s. 4d. per ton.” Actually,
according to the official committee whose
business it is to determine the price at
which sugar can be landed in Australia, to
land refined sugar would cost £l3 17s. 6d.
per ton from Czechoslovakia, or £l4 13s.
2d. from Java —both free of duty. Add the
duty which has been in force for 10 years
past, and the landed cost would be £5,700,000
if Java raws were imported and the refin-
ing done here at a further cost of £1,250,000,
or £8,200,000 if fines were imported.
THE BAVIN WHO IS TO THE BAVIN WHO
MIGHT HAVE BEEN : “My boy, if I
had known how to smile, Jack Lang
might not have! been Premier to-day.”
An uncomfortable time is in store for the
Hogans in the Yic. Parliamentary session
which begins to-day. The Appropriation Bill
for 1931-32 was not passed in December. A
dissatisfied Upper House sent it back with a
minor suggestion, as a pretence for trans-
ferring the custody of the measure, so that
the Assembly might forward instead a bill
covering supply to April 6. Labor Ministers
did not want to precipitate an appeal to
the country after the crushing defeat of the
Scullidores. so' there has been a few months’
respite. But a general election for the
Assembly must be held within seven months,
and there is a general desire to take the
plunge by July.
Gullett has scored a point for the Lyons
Ministry by getting the tobacco manufac-
turers to sign a guarantee that they will
buy 7,200,0001 b. of this season’s leaf at
an average price of 2s. 3d. a pound. They
stipulate, fairly enough, that the leaf must
be “flue-cured, properly, graded and of rea-
sonable marketable quality,” and reserve the
right to make their own deals with indivi-
dual growers, paying more or less as they
think fit; but if their total outlay averages
less than 2s. 3d. a pound, they will make
up the difference by a pro rata distribution.
When the duties were altered, Thompson,
the member for New England, who has
played a creditable part in the revival of the
industry, expressed the fear that “the manu-
facturers would reject a big proportion of
the crop and pay Is. 6d. or Is. 9d. a pound
for the balance.”
How consistent they are. these knights of
Labor! At the A.L.P. Easter conference
the first proposition that was assented to
was that cushy jobs should be reserved for
‘ well-known workers in the Labor move-
ment.” Some objected to Whiddon. others
to Scott (chairman of the Meat Board),
others again to A. D. Kay, none of them
being “valued members of our party.” There
must be spoils to the victors, it was insisted;
the most important qualification for any job
was close association with “the movement.”
Then said Mr. McKillop (Tramways) :
The Government appointed a Minister for Agri-
culture who doesn’t know a pumpkin from a
water-melon.
Still, if he is a stalwart Laborite, what does
it matter?
De Valera, second Prime Minister of
Southern Ireland, is taking his own fol-
lowers by surprise with his velocity. A
half-Spaniard from New York, be has the
sort of picturesque courage which leads a
man to pick up lions by the tail, and whirl
them round his head, and then throw them
away—not so much as a business proposition
as to hear the animals cuss. One of Dewy’s
problems concerns what are called the land
annuities. To avoid more civil war tbe
late Government borrowed money, mostly in
England, and bought out the remaining land-
lords in a compulsory and rather economical
way, and sold to small farmers who com-
plained that there wasn’t enough to go round.
This was something like what the Lawson
Ministry did in Victoria after the war. De
Valera says he will repudiate the debt; and
the Sydney “Labor” party has expressed its
delight with a policy which so greatly re-
sembles its own. But De Valera also says
that the new farmers will gain nothing by
the repudiation. He will collect the instal-
ments from them, and will spend them him-
self; in fact, he assures them he has a per-
fectly reliable idea for spending them or
anything else that heaves in sight.
Article IV of the Treaty of 1921: —
The oath to be taken by members of Parliament
of the Irish Free State shall be in the following
terms: “I (Blank) do solemnly swear true and
faithful allegiance to the Constitution of the Irish
Free State as by law established and that I will
be faithful to H. M. King George V., his heirs
and successors by law in virtue of common citizen-
ship of Ireland with Great Britain and her adherence
to and membership of the group of nations forming
the British Commonwealth of Nations.”
“Ah, no,” says De Valera, “that doesn’t
mean ‘an oath shall be taken.... in the fol-
lowing terms. It means that if an oath is
taken it shall be in those terms.’ ” But
when did it become the Irish way to shuffle
out of a difficulty?
Queensland politicians must suffer from
an inferiority complex. The new bridge over
the Brisbane River has been “opened” by
the State Governor, though Premier Moore
and all his lieutenants were available. This
is in strong contrast to the sturdy assertion
of self in evidence at the Sydney Bridge
ceremonies. There, in spite of the presence
of the Governor-General, the State Governor
and the Prime Minister, a come-and-go local
politician cast himself for the part of cut-
ting the ribbon, though he was anticipated.
The fraudulent Federal land tax which
wa4 to “burst the big estates,” and has burst
many leaseholders in arid parts instead, has
been condemned at 'a Sydney Town Hall
meeting. “If the Government doesn’t re-
move these unjust taxes,” said D. R. Casey,
a Victorian accountant, “the taxpayers
should rise in a body and say they won’t pay
them.” It may come to that, especially if
there is much more of “the bluffing, buffet-
ing and bludgeoning” (another Casey ex-
pression) which taxation departments prac-
tise. Possibly it will start with a refusal
to pay income tax on “income” which the
victim has never received. In N. S. Wales,
for instance, 5 p.c. of a man’s salary is
deducted at the source for the unemployed-
relief tax; but Federal and State income
taxes are imposed on the 100 p.c. In effect,
the victim pays two taxes on what has been
taken from him by a third tax. And it is
by no means certain that this utter swindle
has been legalised in advance.
There was a vacancy on Sydney’s Taronga
Park Trust, and the Royal Zoological Society
nominated W. J. Dakin, Professor of Zoo-
logy at Sydney Uni. The Government
DANIEL (Lang plan) : “What’s me policy?
A five-day week for the animals, a
twenty-five per cint. increase in the
dead-horse ration, an’ no further im-
ports from the London Zoo
appointed Clyne, the “Labor” member for
King. Dakin is a distinguished scientist, but
what does that matter to the mob? He has
never been known to bellow for the Lang
plan, nor did he take part in the 1917 strike.
Lang’s plans, or rather those which are
evolved for him by “ghosts,” have a curious
knack of miscarrying. The drive to swell
the membership of the A.R.U., which belongs
to the Red International group,Jby compelling
members of “loyalist” organisations to join
“a bona fide trade union” has proved a dud.
Nearly everyone concerned has joined the
railways branch of the A.W.U., which is
anti-Lang. The Lang mob had tried to
ditch that concern in the interests of the
United Laborers’ Union, so Lynch, the secre-
tary of the threatened branch, whose per-
tinacious criticisms have made Mr. Badly
feel wretched, is amply avenged.
Lang’s newspaper announces in gleeful
headlines that Tasmania Will Fall in Behind
N.S.W. It will fall sure enough if it fol-
lows Lang, but it is a long way from doing
that. Even the Labor-conference resolution
which inspired the transports is gentlemanly
compared with the Lang “plan.” Consider-
JOHN THOMAS: “Come on! Fall in behind
me!”
McPHEE: “Not on your life!”
ing it “impossible for Tasmania to pay its
overseas interest and exchange,” conference
“requests the State Parliament to propose
the postponement of payment until the Brit-
ish Government and the British bondholders
have agreed to equitable reductions in in-
terest and a just scheme for the liquidation
of capital liabilities.” Not being a creditor
of Tasmania, the British Government can’t
“agree” to anything of the sort; but that
is a detail. Lang, instead of proposing re-
duction of interest by negotiation, trucu-
lently refused to pay a cent until overseas
interest was reduced to 3 p.c.; and he has
twice defaulted on interest at 3 p.c.
It was admitted the other day by a bar-
rister with a Crown brief that bookmakers
who are supposed to collect Lang’s winning-
bets tax are defrauding the Treasury whole-
sale, and that the fool of a Government can’t
stop them. A Government with a bit of
gumption and force of character could do
it easily; but such a Government wouldn’t
bother with such a tax. It would rely upon
the tote instead. Rightly handled —-and that
means providing for all ways of betting on
horses and limiting the tax to 5 p.c.—the
tote would settle the hash of both course and
shop varieties of McShortodds. Even with
the extortionate deduction of 12| p.c. and
fractions of sixpences, dividends at the
Sydney Cup meeting made bookmakers’
prices look ridiculous. A man splitting a
pound on the Cup winner, buying a tote
ticket with one 10s. and a bookmaker’s
ticket with the other, would have got £l9
Os. 6d. from the machine and only £7 14s.
from the man. Another div. for 10s. was
£5B 165.; the return from the bag at the
best price quoted would have been £l5 Is.
What the Brisbane taxing-master did to
the bills put in by the Mungana defendants
was calculated to make the original Gent.
One in Jehannum shed tears. The total
claimed was £12.668; £6185 was allowed.
Ex-Premier McCormack asked £940 for
“loss of business as a stockbroker in Syd-
ney,” 47 weeks at £2O per week. He is to
get £4B 6s.
A favorite diversion in South Aus. is to
guess how many local Labor factions there
are. Premier Hill leads one, composed of 18
Assemblymen and two Councillors; the State
A.L.P. bosses, who expelled Hill and his fol-
lowers, command the allegiance of another
(one Councillor and six Assemblymen) ; a
third consists of three Assemblymen who
were expelled by the A.L.P. but have seceded
from the Hill group; and a gentleman who
“remains a member of the A.L.P. but has
supported the Government all through,
except on the Financial Emergency Bill,” is
held to constitute a fourth. Then there is
a tribune who “resigned from the Govern-
ment party but is applying for readmission”;
also the Lang faction, with' two men in the
Assembly; finally the A.W.U., which is back-
ing the moderate unemployed against the
militants and supports the Federal A.L.P.
executive. Now the Langsters have expelled
portion of their following for “disloyalty to
‘the movement’ during the Federal elections”;
and it is confidently expected that the dis-
severed remnant will forthwith announce
that it is “ ‘the movement,’ ” all the other
remnants being bogus.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
# h= * *
“Cauboy”: I have often wondered exactly
how much notice the average orchestrion
takes of the animated gestures of the gentle-
man who holds the baton and shakes his
locks at the violins or the drum with an
agonised expression on his face. Some light
was thrown on the question at a concert
in Melbourne the other night when the con-
ductor suddenly flung both arms in the air
and then almost hurled himself at the per-
cussion group. This band of heroes remained
as silent as the grave, but from the piccolo
came a mild “tweet, tweet, tweet!”
The conductor hastily looked down at his
score and discovered he had turned two
pages instead of one!
* * *
“Bloggs”: Sydneyites who frequent the
Domain on Sundays take their pleasuresi
sadly. The crowds that shout witticisms at
the Bolshies, Indian Swarajists and Empire
men near London’s Marble Arch on the
Day of Rest are carefree merrymakers by
comparison. Our speakers may be partly
to blame; they are awful. The biggest gath-
ering surrounded one of the Lazzarinis last
time I attended. He has the outward appear-
ance of a mob orator —a wealth of violent
gesture,' an enraged expression, fluency, a
loud voice—but he never says anything. I
listened to him patiently for 23 minutes, and
in all. that time he didn’t complete one argu-
ment or sentence. What made it worse was
that he always seemed on the verge of get-
ting somewhere; it was like being cheated
out of a series of beers on a hot day. Near
by was a girl Bolshie. Small, sandy-haired,
stockingless, gimlet-eyed, she kept up an in-
cessant jabber in a shrill, toneless voice.
Like Lazzarini, she never finished a sentence ;
her speech was one long breathless shriek.
Around these not merely boring but exas-
perating blithcrers were thousands of Aus-
tralian men (there were hardly any women
or children) with faces as expressionless as
bricks. They never laughed, never cheered,
rarely even interjected. Most Domain crowds
are like that unless roused on a racial or
religious issue—the most joyless, apathetic,
mentally constipated gatherings on earth.
* * * *
“H.S.” : The Earl of Jersey hurt the feel-
ings of some pressmen who called at the
door of his shipboard suite in Melbourne,
according to the current “Journalist.” His
wife’s maid was trying to get rid of the
news-hounds when the young man, who was
talking to some friends, shoved his head out
and said: “Be at Menzies’ at eleven.” Just
like that. As if the Inky Wayfarers were
caddies being given a hitting-off time. It
bears out a long-held theory of mine that
no Englishmen of position should be allowed
to visit a self-governing dominion or the
U.S.A. before 30 —and 40 would be better
in the case of many. It takes 10 years to
knock the Eton manner out of the average
lad. Our visitor is probably as sound
at heart as his gregarious grand-dad, who
was a success as Governor of N. S. Wales
40 years ago, but his sense of relative values
is undeveloped. The Prince, in similar cir-
cumstances, would have asked his enterpris-
ing visitors in, perhaps stood them a drink,
certainly sent them away feeling friendly.
So would almost any British elder states-
man. But feats like that call for experience
as well as poise, good feeling and intelli-
gence.
* * *
“Master Mariner”: I was working with
my fleet near the late Captain Harry Tal-
boys, of Broome, when the pearl of great
price was dropped overboard from his lugger
off the Ninety-mile Beach (B. 9/3/’32). I
know that it was recovered, but this was
not done by throwing over a lifebuoy to
mark the spot—that would have been useless
with a tide running five to six knots per
hour. What Captain Talboys did was to
drop the hand lead over where the pearl
went down. The diver, who was on deck at
the time, went down at once, followed the line
and found the pearl close to the lead. He
was handsomely rewarded; the pearl was
sold to a dealer at Broome for, I think.
£l4OO.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Aperture sights on the
British Army rifle are by no means a new
thing (B. 23/3/’32). The long Lee-Metford,
which succeeded the Martini, was fitted with
an aperture sight on the side of the stock,
used in connection with a dial foresight
placed on the right side of the fore end of
the rifle, and the contraption was continued
in its successors. The combination was
originally designed for long-distance volley
firing, but I fancy was rarely employed. The
aperture sight itself goes back a long way.
like many other “modern” military devices.
The hand-grenade of the Great War, for
instance, had its genesis in the Chinese
“stinkpot,” and was in common use in
Marlborough’s time. In Elliot Warburton’s
history of Prince Rupert’s campaigns in
Britain its successful at the taking of
Bristol by the Cavaliers is described. The
“fire-pike” was also employed with advan-
tage during the final assault. The King’s
men were charged by Roundhead horse, but
“Captain Clark and Ancient Ilodgkinson run-
ning upon them with fire-pikes, neither men
nor horses were able to endure it.” This
reads like our old friend the flammemoerfer.
“Cope”: Rev. Harold Davidson, rector of
Stiffkey, Norfolk, is the latest parson to be
charged with “consorting.” Gladstone was
the most eminent victim of the Phari-
saical British convention that respectable
males must pass by
on the other side
when fallen sisters
are about. He made
a habit of rescuing
girls from souteneurs,
sending drunken
women home in cabs,
and interfering when
he thought street
women were being
ill-used by arresting
constable s—and
ended by getting
arrested himself. His
habits inspired many
malicious stories in
Ins lifetime, and led
to a big lawsuit in
1927. His son, Lord
Gladstone, forced it
on a posthumous de-
tainer, and got a ver-
dict that completely
cleared the G.O.M.’s
rep u t a tion. Sir
George Alexander,
the actor-manager,
was another cele-
brity who got run in
for interfering be-
tween the police and
a woman. The Lon-
don police won’t
stand criticism of
their methods from
laymen while on
duty, but take a lot
from parsons and
priests, particularly
if they know them
as they knew the late
Fa th e r Bernard
Vaughan and the
present Bishop of
London. Many Lon-
don clerics, such as
“Dick” Sheppard,
who was at St. JVlar-
tins-in-the-Fields till
his health broke
down, have done
splendid work for
the prostitute class,
but the Anglican Church has never favored
it. Anyhow, fully 75 per cent, of those who
have appeared before the Consistory Court
in recent years have been punished.
:j- t'fi
“Trammie”: After read-
ing several paragraphs in
The Bulletin about hon-
esty being the outstanding
characteristic of the China-
man, I decided to experi-
ment. The results were dis-
couraging. Out of five Mon-
golians who got on the tram
in the first section, and
whom I purposely “missed,”
only one drew attention to
my omission when we were
in the second section and
paid the extra fare. That
proportion is not as good as
that of the Australian. As
far as courtesy and appre-
ciation go, however, John
deserves all the nice things
said about him. One old
Chinaman, a regular travel-
ler with his baskets, first
asks permission to board the
car, then he hands over fare
for baskets and self, arfd always adds some
fruit for both driver and conductor.
$ v
Nicholas Lockyer has another word: —
The first official claim to British possession over
the whole continent of Australia was an event of
prime historical importance, and I agree with
“Ootacarra” (B. 23/3/’32) that it is high time inaccu-
racies appearing in printed records should be cor-
rected. That, however, is not easy. There are not
BEATEN AGAIN.
“My boy’s a lifesaver. He’s got a wonderful medal.”
“Mine’s got better—he has a wonderful clasp.”
a few writers of ©ur early history who much prefer
the easier course of copying others to seeking veri-
fication in the original authorities. “Ootacarra”
naturally accepted as sufficient authority Dr. J. S.
Battye, who wrote a book entitled “Western Aus-
tralia,” and also an article on that territory in
the “Australian Encyclopedia.” On page 755, vol. 1,
of the “Encyclopaedia” there is another article,
entitled “Edmund Lockyer,” in which the date of
hoisting the flag at King George’s Sound, and the
THE SECOND FIGURE.
“Wealthy? Why, my dear girl, his income runs to five figures.”
“I think that would be about the second of them I saw him with
last night.”
taking possession of the whole continent thereby, is
correctly given. The editor of the “Encyelop<edia,”
Mr. Arthur Jose, writing to me some time since,
mentioned: “It is quite clear that the establishment
at King George’s Sound was never a penal establish-
ment, for which purpose Darling „ himself declared
it thoroughly unfit, and in Stirling’s dispatch
(30/1/1830) he calls it a military post under the
command of General Darling, which seems to me to
be decisive.”
Dr. Battye, however, has persisted in the conten-
tion that “the occupancy of King George’s Sound
in 1826 was by convicts under Major Lockyer,” and
hence that it was a convict settlement. I have
already challenged these and other absurdly inaccu-
rate statements in what purports to be an historical
record. Failing to obtain any satisfaction I offered
two years ago, in the “West Australian,” to pay to
the Perth Historical Society £5 ss. in respect of
each of 12 statements of alleged fact in Dr. Battye’s
brief reference to the event if he could produce any
authoritative historical evidence in support of them.
That reasonable offer has so far not been accepted
and) it is still open.
* * * *
“D.”: I see “Oxmead” (B. 23/3/’32)
quotes a Bulletin writer of 40 years ago
on the difficulty of rhyming either “month”
or “orange.” There is a yarn that Leigh
Hunt was faced with this problem. He
pondered for a few seconds and then pro-
duced this: —
From the Indus to Mount Blorar.ge
Came a rajah in a month ;
Sucking now and then an orange,
Conning every day his Grunth.
Mount Blorange (or Blorenge) is in Mon-
mouth, and Grunth was a Gorman who
wrote on metaphysics.
“Bumpkin”: The depression doesn’t seem
to have reached the high seas, judging by
the new ships that
are coming to Aus-
tralia. The P. and
O. turb o-electric
Strathaird is the lat-
est Word in naval
construction. There
is no stigma attached
to anybody who
doesn’t travel first-
class in this hand-
some vessel. You
are a “tourist-class”
passenger, with your
own swimming bath,
male and female hos-
pitals, and other faci-
lities which would
have caused pre-war
pressmen to spill all
their superlatives if
they had appeared in
the first-class. The
engine-room, where
they turn the oil on
from a tap instead
of throwing coal
about, is almost as
refined-looking as the
dining-rooms. It is
a triumph of youth;
none of the designers
was over 37. A. C.
Mitchell, of Melb.
Uni., was responsible
for the design of the
thl'iist on the pro-
peller shaft. The
only thing that
hasn’t been much im-
proved on thus far
is the temperature in
the engine-room. It
averages 104, accord-
ing to the chief engi-
neer. and is 145 in
the tropics sometimes,
according to a stoker.
“X.S.”: Ingenious advertisement? A bird-
fancier drives through Melbourne streets
with a cart fixed up as an aviary and full
of parrots. Across the cage is the slogan,
“Guaranteed 100 per cent, tallrcs!”
I WANT TO KNOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I want to find some bony-fide
Prophet of either gender
To tear the future’s veil aside
A la the Witch of Endor.
I tire of all the skimpy skeins
And ultra-mystic fancies
You get from crystal-reading janes
And mediums at seances.
I want the riddles read that bear
On ev’ryday existence;
And they may wait, for all I care,
Tire problems in the distance.
The shibboleths of Lodge and Doyle
Let spiritualists patter.
I want a drop of dinkum oil
About the things that matter.
I want to know, if Lyons win
First blo'od ’gainst Lang the Planner,
Whether he’ll put the bailiffs in
In the accustomed manner;
And how the ten-to-four brigade
Will view their erstwhile hero
When chances of their screws being paid
Recede to chilly zero.
I want to know how long he’ll crow
Defiance from his midden ;
A GOOD UNDRESSER.
“Muriel dresses well.”
“Yes, she looks nice in anything she takes off.”
And what will happen, if he go,
To Goode and Kay and Whiddon;
To know when wheat will rise, and wool,
When jobs no more they’ll ration,
When grim Deprcsh will take a pull
And doles go out of fashion.
I want to know when flapper-sports
Will cease to flaunt their muscles
In bathing suits and hiking shorts
And turn again to bustles;
To know how long will be the spin,
In suffering Australia,
Of basher gangs and hares of tin,
New Guards, free verse, et alia.
I want to know—well, ’tisn’t much,
But, in the mood I feel in,
I’m sick of airy nothings, such
As fortune-tellers deal in.
The simple things ahead, I’m sure,
Cute Merlin seldom slipped on;
They never bothered Ancient Moore
Or puzzled Mother Shipton.
I want to know—but what’s the use?
No seers are left to speak up.
I tire of tosh that dames deduce
From studied palm or teacup.
The mediums spill you any amount
On spooks and what befel them.
I want to know the things that count;
And (woe !) there’s none to tell them.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Hs * ❖ *
“X.N.0.”: “Jeames’s” reference (B.
30/3/’32) to London’s Bright Young Things,
shortened to “B.Y.T.’s,” reminds me that
the Royal Navy started this alphabetical
nomenclature many years ago when it divided
its officers unofficially into “BAT.F.’s” and
“5.0.8.’5.” Readers ‘ may expand these
initials according to their individual tastes,
but I might say that the Digger version
would probably be correct.
* * * *
“Farleigh”: O. Henry has a story of a
fashionable American country hotel which
included among its attractions a picturesque
hermit, victim of unrequited love, who lived
in n romantic cave on a neighboring hill.
THE OPTIMIST.
CONJURER: “And now, for my next experiment, I will ask some gentleman in the
audience for the loan of his silk hat.”
He even had a mention on the menu, between
the savories and the dessert. A Pitt-street
(Sydney) restaurant has. gone one better by
giving its customers a close-up of Lang, in
the flesh and over the fish, four or five
times a week during the lunch-hour. Not
even a new giraffe at the Zoo could be a
greater draw, for the establishment’s patrons
mostly come from a class which is never
likely to see Lang.at close range otherwise.
unless from the public gallery of Parlia-
ment. The dictator and his private secre-
tary have a corner table specially reserved
for them, and their arrival always means
a buzz of excitement as they are indicated
by habitues to country visitors. One gets
the impression that quite a lot of lunchers
would sooner go away without coffee and a
cigarette as without* a glimpse of the State’s
Mussolini; he has come to rank as an essen-
tial part of the meal. Meanwhile the Great
Man and his offsider—they somehow recall
a Thibetan lama and his chela —negotiate
their Murray cod and other delicacies
in a businesslike manner, trying to appear
sublimely unconscious of being the cynosures
of all eyes—a thing which, as Dickens some-
w'here remarks, no one has ever yet sue-
ceeded in doing and nobody ever will.
* * * *
“Turpin”: This is the age of youth, in
crime as well as other callings. “Criminals
of 20 Fill the Gaols,” was the headline in a
London paper over a report by a Royal Com-
mission which had investigated present prison
conditions pretty thoroughly. Almost all the
Dartmoor mutineers, according to another
account, were quite young men; there was
only one grey-haired convict among the lot,
although only men convicted of serious
crimes go to Dartmoor. Similarly, most of
Australia’s criminals, established or suspect,
who have been in the limelight of late have
been well under 30. The three men convicted
in Melbourne for robbery under arms,
which involved the shooting of a police-
constable, were under 30. The age of
Richards, the Yatala (S.A.) gabl-breaker,
recaptured in Brisbane with a kit of bur-
glars’ tools, is given as 27; so is that of
‘‘Snowy” Rowles, sentenced to death for
murder in Westralia; and Morton, the
housebreaker who took the life of poor
old Barrie, aged 85, at Paddington,
Sydney, is 26. One explanation advanced
for the rush of crime among compara-
tively young men is the kind of Ameri-
can film which presents law-breaking in
its most attractive aspect. Another is the
period of weakened or non-existent paternal
discipline for children which marked the
war years. The fact remains that not long
ago the average age of prison inmates was
46 or more. It has gone down these last
few years with a run.
“Yarrer”: The ribbon-cut-
ting epidemic has spread to
Melbourne. Some 800 Soviet
supporters assembled at Port
Melbourne to farewell delegates
departing by the Orsova for the
Russian May Day celebrations.
Like other citizens, they bought
ribbons to throw at their
friends, but they had a curious
preference for the color red. A
woman passenger found a
ribbon of the offensive hue held
by a departing Communist was
interfering with her line of
vision, and she broke it. A
storm of hoots and threats arose
from the wharf; the “Red
Flag” was sung on shore and
the passengers aboard attempted
to drown it with the National
Anthem and “Rule Britannia.”
The excitement grew so intense
that they sent for the police
patrol. A male passenger
poured iron filings on the
troubled waters, and some of
them landed in the hair of long-
shore Communists. Six of
these, with red in their ties and
eyes, promptly clambered on to
tire ship, but a cordon of pas-
sengers surrounded the object
of their exasperation and he
escaped into the ship’s interior.
As the vessel departed red,
green, blue and yellow ribbons
mingled happily in her w T ake.
but the factions continued to
boo at each other until distance made their
demonstrations superfluous.
“C.Q.”: A Melbourne politician, regarded
as the best-dressed member of his profession,
was recently addressing an audience in the
middle of a heatwave. He hadn’t got far
in his impassioned demand for somebody or
other to do something before the perspira-
tion began to pour down his visage. He
thrust his hand in his pocket and pulled
out what looked like a neatly folded handker-
chief. When he shook the folds out and
proceeded to wipe his forehead he got his
first laugh of the evening. The article was
a pair of baby’s pants—l think they call
them pilchers!
* * „
“ Jeames”: Of course, as Old Timer
notes (B. 30/3/’32), Jews are admitted to
Sydney’s leading clubs, and always have
been; but members of professions that the
rest of the world thinks a lot of are not.
Take artists. George Lambert belonged to
a London club and was very popular socially
in Sydney; but no one ever,, suggested put-
ting him up for the Union. John Lougstaff
belongs to clubs in London and Melbourne,
but not in Sydney. An eminent overseas
painter might get into the Union Or Aus-
tralian as an honorary member provided his
financial respectability ivas unimpeachable,
but no actor would have a hope. Members
0 f the theatrical profession, some of whom
a re welcomed to the Athenaeum in London,
are still regarded as rogues and vagabonds
j n the chief Sydney and Melbourne clubs,
* *. * *
“Nix Mangery”: Italian propaganda in
Malta is again in evidence, and there are
threats of trouble if the teaching of Italian
i s discontinued in the schools. This Italian
claim to interference in the domestic affairs
of a British possession is based on dubious
foundations. Italy has had little to do
with Malta since the day of the Roman
Empire. Tlfe people are not Italians but
largely of Moorish ancestry, and the lan-
guage partakes more of Arabic than any
European tongue, while the Turkish rovers
have also left a strong imprint thereon,
The knights of St. John, who are generally
associated in popular imagination with
Malta, were recruited from all the Christian
races of Europe. The hostels or barracks
in which the members of each nation lived
together are still standing there, that of
the Italian knights being only one of many,
* * * *
“Varastad”: President Taylor, of the
Australian Olympic Federation, referred the
other day to the antiquity of the Olympic
Games. When these actually began nobody
knows or ever will know; but there is
some reason to believe that they were re-
vived in the eighth century 8.c., which is
not long after the date when the Homeric
poems are believed to have been written.
Certainly the Greeks used them for chronolo-
gical as well as athletic purposes from the
seventh century B.c. to the fourth one of the
Christian era; there had been 305 Olym-
piads, at four-year intervals, when the
Emperor Theodosius shut down on the pic-
turesque function in a.d. 394, shortly before
the Roman Empire split in half. The other
point that the speaker deemed worth a men-
tion, possibly in view of the increasing pre-
valence of the girl athlete, was that in
Greece women were not permitted to see
AFTER THE SHOW.
“I’m getting so fat I couldn’t drag one of my costumes together to-night. I don’t
know what to do about it.”
“Ever try recalling things you want to forget? They’re splendid for making people
shrink.”
the games, let alone take part in them. Pos-
sibly it was as well that any idea of fem-
inine emulation in such exercises as wrest-
ling and boxing and javelin-throwing was
severely discouraged, or the Greek sculptors
might 'have had to model their Venuses on
different lines. And there was *no swim-
ming. Neither the Greeks nor the Rom'ans
ever seem to have regarded that as a sport.
“Ituna”: Maoriland, like S. Aus. (B.
30/3./’32), has had satisfactory German
colonists, but an even finer type of immi-
grant were the Danes and Scandinavians
who settled in the Hawkes Bay district many
years ago. Farming and dairying were their
chief pursuits; very few failed to make good
in their adopted country, and the thriving
town of Dannevirke owes its foundation to
their business capacity.
. * sji *
“G.H.H.”: Our ship had been to
Sydney for overhaul, and upon her
return to the Gilbert Islands all
hands were loud in praise of the
Harbor Bridge. The second engi-
neer produced a souvenir, an ash-
tray of white metal with a picture
of the bridge stamped in relief. It
was a nice little ornament, and after
having been duly admired, was
passed to me. Turning it over, I
noticed in minute printing on the
back the words “Made iu Japan.”
“Platypus” : Links with the beginnings of
Australian history? There is in Ipswich
(Q.) the grand-daughter of a man who
landed on these shores with Cook in 1770.
His name was Meredith ; later he returned
to the infant colony in some military capa-
city with Governor Phillip, bringing a young
wife with him. The pair brought up a
numerous family and have many descendants
in N. S. Wales and Queensland to-day. A
great-grandson of Meredith’s applied for a
place on the Captain Cook float at the
Bridge opening but. found all vacancies filled.
However, he was given a position on another
float, the Old Colonists’.
SEASIDE BREEZES.
“You an actress! Why, you can’t even remember your lines!”
“No, and when I’m as old as you are, I won’t be able to forget them."
“Centurion”: I am expecting to hear
that a number of the senior officers of the
British Army, especially those on the retired
list who frequent service clubs, have taken
to their beds. Some time ago the War
Office announced that it was contemplating
changes in the attire of the private soldier
and n.c.0., but it was hardly expected they
would be as revolutionary as the sug-
gestions which have no v been sent to the
various commands for discussion and
opinions. A new jacket of the “Indian pat-
tern” with open front, shirt collar and neck-
tie, will replace the old lnitton-up tunic that
covered such a multitude of sins of omis-
sion. The trousers will be of the plus-four
type with leather or canvas gaiters. In
short, Thomas A. is to be garbed exactly as
his officers are to-day. To Thomas the
change will merely mean more fatigues. He
will have to wash his shirts as well as his
socks, seeing that the former can no longer
be hidden beneath the tunic, and there will
be more articles to go missing at kit inspec-
tion, with the consequent docking of pay.
# * * *
“F.1.A.T.”: In confirmation of my claim
(B. 23/3/’32) that “a speed limit rigidly
enforced in the populous areas is the only
cure for motor accidents,” consider the just-
arrived report of the English Pedestrians’
Association. Owing to the slump there has
been a great decrease in motor traffic, par-
ticularly in London and suburbs. Yet nearly
as many people were killed and injured in
the Metropolitan Police area in 193 l as in
the previous year. The reason, according
to the association, is the recent abolition of
the speed limit in England:—
It has proved so far as the walking public are
concerned —by far the most numerous class of victim
—nothing less than a disaster.
It is significant that “the largest increase
in the number of deaths was amongst chil-
dren under five years.” In other words,
amongst those who are least able to dodge
speeding ears and bikes. Australia is pay-
ing at the rate of four or five deaths, and
Lord knows liow many broken limbs, every
day of the year so that a comparatively small
number of morons may retain the right to
road-hog through cities and crowded towns.
Where’s the sense?
$ * *
“X.S.”: Judges are not usually troubled
with aesthetic feelings; I suppose they would
be out of place in the atmosphere of a law
court. There used to be a magnificent gum-
tree near the Burke-road bridge, Ivanhoe
(Vic.). It was said to be 200 years old,
which is quite probable; there is one in a
near-by park which is computed by botanists
to have been a healthy sapling in the days
of Queen Elizabeth. The Burke-road gum
stood on a vacant allotment. A timber-getter
felled it, cut it up into handy lengths and
removed it for firewood. When the woman who
owned the block and the tree saw what had
happened she said she would bo inconsolable,
but subsequently assessed the damage to her
emotions at £5O. Leading residents gave
evidence that they had known and loved the
tree from childhood, and their fathers had
loved it before them; other witnesses stated
that the tree had no commercial vane,
except for burning purposes. Sonah Judge
Winneckc said the tree, from the evidence,
appeared to be almost worthless, ilaintin.
however, was entitled to some recompense
for the damage done to her property; also
there was proof of technical trespass. So
he gave judgment for a liver.
THE BUSY COINER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Counterfeit florins are met with less frequently,
but Sydney is being flooded with bad shillings and
sixpences.”
The florin base and bad
Its little day has had,
On trade’s well-beaten pad
It groweth rarer.
But keep your eyebrows knit
Lest lesser coins outwit,
My estimable cit.
And bold wayfarer.
Scan well the nimble bob!
The counterfeiting mob
Have made as neat a job
Of that, they -rumor.
It may, .on overhaul,
No shilling prove at all,
But what the ,Cockneys call
A blinkin’ stumer.
And bend a watchful eye
Upon the currency
We’re wont to specify
In various manner:
The “tickpen” of the black,
The little piece of jack
Some designate a zack
And some a tanner.
Ah, me! Unless the d.’s
Upon the knaveries
Applied to mere bawbees
Can put a stopper,
I fear the day will come—
The prospect makes one glum—
When crooks will fake a thrum
Or forge a copper!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
{Opp. Railway Station),
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms :: 200 Baths
la
w
ft n
*1 5
mu
m it
J
■ m i
Melbourne’s Mast Modern Hotel.
Tariff per day:
Room and meals from 22/6
Room and Breakfast from 12/6
ROYAL GOLD & CURRENCY EXCHANGE CO.
40 MARTIN
PLACE,
BYDNEY.
Phone:
85417
(Registered)
Highest Rates for the following Currency:
English Silver Coin. .£ 1 3
English Copper Coin.. 11
English Notes .. 14
Gold Coin . . . . 1 11
Licensed Buyers of Alluvial
N.Z. Notes .. .. £1 1 8
Canadian Dollar Bills 5 8
American Dollar Bills 6 3
American Silver Dollars 5 3
Gold and Broken Jewellery of all
kinds. Specialists in Black Opals.
Reference:
E„ S. & A.
Bank, Sydney.
New Zealand
and Interstate
clients consign
all goods
direct.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
Victoria: THE WESTIKUHUUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House.
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
y-
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
MUEDOC H.—THOMAS WALKER
MURDOCH, Retired Railway Regis-
trar 34 Wilton Gardens, Glasgow, died
September, 1927, aged 83, and his sister
Anne or Annie Murdoch, January, 1932 .
children of William Murdoch Wine and
Spirit Merchant, and Jeame Walker. Hah
brothers William and John. They, then
descendants or other relatives apply JAMLo
S. FULTON, Solicitor, 131 West Regent
Street, Glasgow.
FANNY.—WiII FANNY TEW
1 (sister of William Burcombe, of Brad-
ford, England), last heard of at Carlton,
Victoria, or her descendants, or any person
having information as to tlieir present where-
abouts, please communicate with LYNCH
and MacDONALD, Solicitors, 360 -Collins
Street, Melbourne.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
If Bavin, who has renounced the Nat.
leadership in N.S.W. to resume practice
at the Bar, finds plenty of briefs awaiting
him, lie will be more fortunate than some
Victorian lawyer-politicians. Alfred' Deakin
returned to chambers after his long innings
in the Service-Berry and Gillies-Deakin
coalitions (1883-90) ; but beyond being
junior counsel in Speight v. Syme he found
little demand for his services. Isaac Isaacs
and Irvine had little trouble in regaining
their legal eminence; they, however, never
lost touch. George Turner and Harry Law-
son, both solicitors, lost clients by becoming'
Premier and failed to lure them back when
they shed office.
The doyen of mining men on the Golden
Mile is Richard Hamilton, who has just been
re-elected president of the Westralian Cham-
ber of Mines for his 32nd successive term.
Born in Victoria nearly 77 years ago he lias
been associated with the Great Boulder since.
1896, when he became general manager. Since
resigning that position he has been local
attorney and director for the co. “Hamilton
of the Boulder” is a product of the Bendigo
School of Mines, and had mining experiences
in India and Arizona before he settled down
to the most successful work of his life in
Westralia.
Major-General Spencer Browne, who has
recently celebrated his 50th year of service
with the Brisbane “Courier,” of which lie is
the financial writer, was one of the pioneers
of the Mounted Infantry in the days when
Queensland ran its own defence forces. His
first taste of active service was with the
First Q.M.I. in the Boer War, where he
picked up a C-B. as a special-service officer.
Continuing his service with the Common-
wealth forces, he left for the big argument
with Fritz in 1916 as C.O. the Third L.H.
Brigade, with which he saw service on Gal-
lipoli. He can boast a wide and many-
sided experience of Queensland.
Dr. Frank Apperly, who is leaving Mel-
bourne to take the chair of Pathology at Vir-
ginia University, was recently presented with
a unique pencil portrait of himself. It was
commenced at a gathering of his friends by
Digger-artist Pat Hanna, and portions of the
remainder were completed and signed by
H’arry McClelland, W. B. Mclnnes and M.
Napier Waller, Space was reserved for
John Longstaff, a maternal uncle of the
subject, to “put the boots in.” Dr. Apperly
is a Victorian Rhodes scholar; he studied
his medicine at Oxford. London and Dublin,
served in the war with the R.A.M.C., and
since his return has held the senior lecture-
ship in Pathology at Melbourne Uni.
L. H. HOWIE, president of the S.A. Society
of Arts, principal of the Adelaide School
of Arts and Crafts, the guide and friend
of most of the State’s young artists.
“H.M.”: Major David Millar Forsyth,
who, when he was in charge of Sydney
Repat.’s medical section, was “Dad” For-
syth to all Diggers, has gone west, his wai
wounds being a contributing cause. He felt
Repat. to go to Papua, where he acquired a
couple of plantations, and engaged m
some successful gold ventures. The last
time writer saw Forsyth “Dad” had hotly
tackled a man who had made disparaging
remarks about a crippled Digger somewhat
the worse for liqqor, demanding to know
from the offender if he had been to the
war himself, and whether he knew anything
about the effects of war-strain. “Dad” was
like that.
Au important
member of Maori-
land’s newly-fledged
Development of In-
dustries Board is
G. W. Clinkard,
who has had a
fairly varied ex-
perience in his 2b
years of earning a
crust. He started
as a cadet in the
Taxation Depart-
ment ; resigned to
become assistant
secretary of the
Employers’ Federa-
tion in 1914; left
that for Gallipoli,
and, returning in-
valided, went back
to the public ser-
vice, in which he
climbed successive-
ly to the posts of
advisory account-
ant t 0 the Board
of Trade, secretary
to the Administra-
tion of Western
Samoa, and, lastly
and presently, man-
ager of the group-
ed departments of
Industries, Co m-
merce, Tourist Re-
sorts and Publicity.
Now that London
loans can no longer
be depended upon
to keep the Domi-
nion flooded with
J. Bull’s manufac-
tures there ought
to be plenty of
scope in Maoriland
for new factories,
so the board _ of
which Mr. Olink-
ard is a member
G. W. Clinkard, who
is helping to lift
Enzed out of the bog.
has a fine spacious
field in which to ramble.
Chauvel, succeeding; the dead Monash, will
lead the march of 25,000 Diggers through
Melbourne on Anzac Day. Close behind
him will be Brig.-Gen. Stewart a member
of the Closer Settlement Board, Dud Mayor
Smith and the Chief Commissioner of Police.
Ewen (Ilughie) Cameron, of Tori, near
Balranald, who died in Sydney recently, was
a nephew of the late Tom Cawker a friend
of Lindsay Gordon and probably the best
known of all the old-time coach-drivers ot
the western district of Victoria. Hugme
took after his uncle in being a wonderful
judge of horses. In his younger days he was
a fine amateur rider.
Out of the fortune he accumulated as a
tailor and mercer in Smith-street, Colling-
wood, and Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, just-
dead George Gavin Wardrop built a mansion
at Norihcote, Wardrop House, which he
handed over to the Y.M.C.A. as a hostel foi
youthful artisans from country districts. The
philanthropist passed out in Sydney at 71,
and was buried in Coburg cemetery—a few
miles from his hostel.
An occasional birthday notice is all that
reminds the world of the existence of many
a Federal politician who had a long innings
before electors tired of them. Ex-Senator
de Largie, who lives at St. Kilda (Vic.)
nowadays and was 73 the other day, repre-
sented Westralia from 1901 to 19-3. .He
was one of the wildest and woolliest
of Laborites in the beginning, but mel-
lowed with the years, like his run-
ning mate George Pearce; he followed
George out of the party at the Con-
scription split, but, unlike George, he failed
to keep himself acceptable to the National-
ists. In 1903 De Largie’s stock was highest.
That year he topped the Senate poll in his
State, but thereafter he was always the last
man elected. Though he never attained
office he was Ministerial Whip for eight
years in all.
W. Smart, dead in S. Aus. at 90, did
his bit in making Australian history. As a
young man he cut timber for many of that
■State’s jetties and bridges; and he was the
last survivor of the party that, starting
southward from Darwin, put up the tele-
graph line to link Australia, through
Adelaide, with the outside world.
After nearly 40 years F. W. Browne gives
up the job 'of managing director ot the
Wright-Heaton firm, which specialises in back-
country carrying and supplies, but ‘he will
stand by to advise. It was really as an
adviser that lie came to Sydney first; tfio
firm, founded by a well-known poliLcian ot
the Parkes days, had got into difficulties,
and Browne, of the then more flourishing
firm of William McCulloch, was brought
from Melbourne to put it on its feet. He
stayed, and turned the concern into easily
the most profitable thing of its kind in the
Continent.
“W.D.”: In a paragraph (B. 16/3/’32)
concerning a pioneer family there is a slight
inaccuracy in the statement that “Horsley,
near Prospect (N.S.W.), was built by
Colonel Johnston. It was built by Captain
Weston (whose second wife was a daughter
of Col. Johnston).- “Horsley” is interesting
and possibly unique in N.S.W. in being built
mainly of teak, Captain Weston travelling
specially to India to ship the necessary teak
and sandalwood for the house. It was named
after his birthplace in Kent.
The Rev. Charles Frederick L’Oste, of
Pyengana (Tas.), who has just kept his
103rd birthday, must be easily the oldest
cleric in Australia. He entered the Anglican
ministry very late in life, having! been
ordained deacon at Goulburn in 1880. He
held several incumbencies in the Speck, re-
tiring 14 years ago.
“Kildare”: There won’t be any bloodshed
under the new Free State regime, judging
by the bourgeois complexion of Do Valera’s
Cabinet. The most important and dangerous
job is that of Minister of Justice. De Valera
has given it to James Geoghcgan, a genial
old gentleman who didn’t participate in “the
coldness” as a combatant, and has been a
popular member of the London Bar for years.
He was made a K.C. seven years ago. Pat
Ruttledge, Minister for Fisheries, is another
moderate —a sporting solicitor who is said to
be hail-fellow-well-met with every adult
Catholic and Protestant in Mayo. Dr.
Ryan (Agriculture) and Messrs. McEntee
(Finance) and Derrig (Education) are also
law-abiding professional men who have long
left the follies of youth behind them. In-
cidentally, it’s a much more affluent Cabinet
than the one Cosgrave started with' in ’22.
Sir Francis Wylie, the retired Oxford
secretary to uie Rhodes Trustees —he held the
job for 28 years—is himself a scholar of con-
siderable distinction. A Balliol man he took
a double first in the Schools in the ’eighties
and was subsequently elected a Fellow of
Brasenose. During his visit to Australia lie
renewed acquaintance with every Rhodes man
there is in this country, and lie goes on to
Maoriland and Canada on a similar mission.
R. G. Casey, who has supplanted Laborite
Arthur Lewis as M.H.R. for Corio (Vic.),
is a man who may go far in his country's
R. G. CASEY, M.H.R.,
formerly of the Common-
wealth Office in London,
who has a scheme to put
before the Premiers’ Con-
ference which he thinks
will absorb at least 20 p.c.
of the unemployed.
service. Queens-
land born, he is
the son of that
fine sportsman
and good fellow
“Dick” Casey,
who for many
years bulked big
in Queensland
squatting in
partnership with
Donald Wallace,
of Carbine fame.
Both his dad
and Donald
were Victorians,
as so many
Queensland sta-
tion-owners on
the Barcoo were
in those days;
young Casey
went to Mel-
bourne for his
early education,
later to Cam-
bridge. His
fine war record
led to his
appointment as
liaison officer
between the
Australian High
C o mmissioner’s
office and the
British Foreign
Office, and here
he did good .ser-
vice until the
Scullin Govern-
ment abolished
his job. Like
his father ,be-
, fore him, Casey
is a brainy and
level - headed
chap, and if
young men are
given the chance
they merit in
the new regime,
he should be one of the first promoted.
It has taken Acting Superintendent Wil-
liam James Mackay only 22 years to climb
from the bottom rung of the N.S.W. police
ladder to the second-highest. He had been
in the detective force in Glasgow before
coming to Australia; and it was not long
WILLIAM JAMES MACKAY, the new
Metropolitan Superintendent of N.S.W.
police—the “real Mackay" of a “Plain
English” this week.
before he was picked out by Commissioner
James Mitchell for a place in the super s
office, where lie rapidly climbed to the chief
clerkship. Ilis work in securing evidence
for the I.W.W. prosecutions in 1917 made
his reputation; in 1928 he became chief of
the C. 1.8.
“Cauboy” : Nothing has impressed me more
with the world-wide nature of the depression
than the cabled report that Jan Kubelik and
his wife have been examined in bankruptcy
at Vienna. The liabilities of the pair are
stated at £30,000, and they attribute their
losses to depreciation of their investments
in America and France. If the distinguished
violinist confined his Stock Exchange opera-
tions to only two countries he is an exception
amongst virtuosi. Most of them broadcast
their earnings as far afield as possible.
Chaliapin put some of his Australian profits
into Commonwealth bonds. Two eminent
entertainers —a pianist and a singer—who
met in an artist’s studio in Melbourne car-
ried on an animated conversation in F'rench,
and a guest, hoping to hear their views on
temperament, soul and other topics which
are supposed to be the _ chief concern of
great musicians, listoned-in. She reported
afterwards that they were discussing the
respective merits of Canadian and Argentine
railway stock.
C. A. M. West, an Adelaide man who has
been secretary to the Commercial Travellers
in S.A. and latterly in Sydney, moves to
Melbourne as permanent secretary of the
united Association. As a sideline, he was
deputy-manager of the Australian team at
the Olympic Games in Paris.
Brig.-Gen. J. C. Stewart, Chief Inspector
of Settlement, succeeds just-retired 65-year-
old George Moore as third member of Vic.
Closer Settlement Board. N. C. Malcolm,
the second member, is also a Digger, so that
soldier-settlers have plenty of representation.
The chairman, W. Dempster, Sec. for Lands,
is a skilled accountant.
One of the finest addresses delivered in
England at the centenary of the death of
Crabbe, the poet (the celebrations were held
at Trowbridge, Wilts, where “Pope in home-
spun” was for years the rector), was that of
the Right Rev.‘ St. Clair Donaldson, Bishop
of Salisbury. Referring to the deplorable con-
ditions of English agricultural laborers at
the beginning of last century, to which
Crabbe did sf> much to call attention, the
Bishop mentioned that when in Australia
he had seen many grim relics of the days
when men were transported for poaching. Ihe
Bishop, though born and educated in Eng-
land, was Archbishop of Brisbane from 1904
to 1921, and his connections with Australia
date much further back than that. His
father, Stuart Donaldson, was the first
Premier of N. S. Wales.


The WILD CAT COLUMN
«
Howard Smith, Ltd.
f Dividends;
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dee., Profits. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1922.. 272 24,534 15 p.c.= 225,000 6,738 665,116
Profits. Ordinaries.
1923.. 159.410 15 p.c. = 225,000 629,526
Reserves capitalised. £500,000 . . . . 129,526
1924.. 265,464 12 p.c. = 240,000 25,464 154,990
Profit on liquidation of subsidiaries £91,976 246,966
1925.. 221,041 10 p.c. = 200,000 21,041 268,007
Taxation reserves taken in, £lO,OOO .. 278,007
1926.. 211,608 10 p.c. = 200,000 11,608 289,615
Pref., Ord.,
C p.c. 10 p.c.
£
1927.. 200,979 762 200,000 217 289,832
74 p.c.
1928.. 161,348 11,780 150,000 289,400
24 p.c.
1929.. 75,874 15,000 50,000 10,874 300,274
1930.. 18,801 15,000 Nil 3,801 304,075
1931.. 15,172 15,000 Nil 172 304,247
There is £2,250,000 of capital to feed in
250,000 6 p.c. cum. prefs. and 2.000,000 ords.
The latter include £1,550,000 of bonus scrip,
most of which was scattered shortly after
the co. passed over its coal and shipping
interests to subsidiaries in 1914. Since then
the ords. have averaged 9.4 p.c.; but they
have gone hungry for the last two years, and
the investment outlook for the scrip lias
changed completely. Over the last half of
the decade covered by the table net profits
averaged only £94,435 as against an average
of £225,759 for the first half.
Chief causes of the slip, which began in
1924, have been (1) general slump, (2)
labor troubles and the plight of the coal
industry, and (3) heavy investments in
new ventures which, for the most part, have
not sent along any divs. Also the co. has
leant heavily upon outsiders, and, of course,
the weight of the debt has made itself felt.
Thus last year’s profit was little more than
the pref. div. called for. After paying this
the balance of net earnings in 1929 was
only 3 p.c. on ord. capital as against 7.4, 10,
10.5, 11, and 13.2 p.c. back to 1924.
The co.’s main source of income lias been
the old Howard Smith line, now Australian
Steamships Pty.; next are its coal interests.
A couple of years ago holdings in the prin-
cipal subsidiaries were as follows :
Howard Last
Issued Smith’s Ord.
Capital. Holding. Div.
Australian Steamships. . £1,850,002 £1,849,990
Caledonian Coal . . 1,487,894 1,191,276* Nil
Invincible Coal . . 104,000 66,321 Nil
Aus. Iron and Steel . . 3,253,007 400,000 Nil
S. Portland Cement . . 849,889 368,299 Nil
Vickers Commonwealth
Steel 318,193 61,300
Southern Blue Metal.. 248,000 48,000 Nil
*325,034 6 p.c. prefs. and 866,242 ords.
In addition the co. has a substantial interest
in Australian Sugar (paid capital £207,915),
which, after a run of 20 p.c. divs., has paid
a steady 12 p.c. since 1924. No hint is given
as to what the shipping co. pays; the profit
earned by other inter-State shippers last year
came mainly from their investments outside
the business. For the last three years Cale-
donian has passed its divs., and Invincible
showed a loss of £1342 in its latest accounts.
The ords. in the Iron and Steel Co. got 5 p.c.
in 1929, but have gone hungry since. The
cement and metal ventures have been dis-
appointing ; Vickers does not broadcast its
figures.
The extent to which the co. has gone into
debt to finance its investments is shown in
the next table :
1928. 1930. 1931.
Liquids.. .. .. £420,711 £271,890 £229,619
Liabilities .. ~ 664,333 1,001,567 961,813
Excess liabilities .. £243,622 £729,677 £732,194
At the close of accounts liabilities comprised
£597,310 coming to subsidiaries; overdraft,
£210,912; deposits, £96,757; sundry credi-
tors, £56,828. The book value of share-
holdings (£3,094,378) increased £3424 during
the year. There was little change in the
property and plant figure (£195,513).
Shipping promises to remain the backbone
of the business; earnings from that source
should revive as conditions become more
settled. The prospect of legislative in-
terference with the N. S. Wales coal
industry makes the outlook there obscure,
and the slackness in construction has affected
the steel, cement and metal trades.
The market prices the ords. at 7s. The
return at that figure would be 8.5 p.c. on a
3 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. seldom appear
on ’Change.
Commonwealth General Assurance
Excess Out-
Dec., Revenue. Claims. Expenses, goings. Deficit
£ £ £ £ £
1922.. 45,861 9,316 47,701 11,156 24,695
Premiums on new shares, £231 (net) 24,464
Share-selling costs . . 1,360 25’824
Paid for Co-op. and L.C.A.
Industrial departments . . 16,585 42 409
1923.. 81,519 23,567 70,846 12,894 55,303
From Sale of Fire business, £25,378 31 299
1924.. 97,609 33,161 65,822 ' 1,374 56,677
From Fire Dept., £3BB . . . . 30,911
To Reduction
of Deficit.
1925.. 77,258 18,648 47,701 10,909 20,002
Added to establishment, £6Bl . . 20 683
1926.. 75,130 12,760 44,129 18,241 2,442
Net unexplained reduction in Reserves, £461 2,903
Funds.*
1927.. 80,583 17,504 44,056 19,023 16,120
Added to establishment, £8394 . . 7,726
1928.. 91,531 17,233 56,015 18,283 26,009
Loss on security, £503 . . . . 25,506
1929.. 105,379 14,674 64,585 26.120 51,626
1930.. 105,505 19,532 62,361 23,612 75,238
Forfeited shares,, etc., £17,811 .. 93,049
1931. . 100,326 21,036 44,084 35,206 128,255
*After deducting intangibles.
This post-war stripling—it was promoted by
Thomas Foster in 1920 —has got itself into
a precarious position, and is now struggling
desperately for existence. When the books
closed at Dec. 31 last the Life Assurance
fund appeared at £279,537; the book value
of net tangible assets was £227,130. That
is to say, assuming the life fund exactly
covered liabilities under policy contracts, the
whole of the paid-up share capital and
£52,407 belonging to policy-holders besides
had been lost or. at any rate, was no longer
visible.
At the end of 1929 the difference between
the fund and net tangibles was £33,240, so
shareholders were asked for an extra £30,000-
odd (2s. per share), of which £18,531 had
been gathered at the close of 1930, making-
paid capital £114,097. But the figure had
dropped to £98,829 at Dec. 31 last; 52,610
shares (10s. face value) having been forfeited
during the year. The books were adjusted
through the establishment account; yet
£21,820 net was- added to this intangible,
raising it to £86,696. Meanwhile the actuary
had completed his quinquennial over-
haul of the business (to Dec. 31, 1930), and
the result has been “incorporated in the
accounts.” Thus, though last year’s surplus
of incomings over outgoings was only £35,206,
no less than £74,837 was added to the assur-
ance fund; the other £39,631 was apparently
the amount by which the fund fell short of
requirements. It appears therefore that
£17,811 was struck off establishment and
charged against forfeited shares account,
etc.
The protection that remained for policy-
holders was in this form :
1929. 1930. 1931.
Government securities.. £78,934 £112,155 £119,929
House-purchase loans .. 47,821 47,355 47,130
Cash and deposits .. 6,069 2,317 2,521
Loans on policies, etc. 2,941 6,202 40,866
Book debts . . .. 10,543 24,832 12,526
Owing by other cos. .. -
Agents’ balances .. 632 609 1,415
Shares in other cos. . . 1,107 1,107 1,066
Furniture, cars, stationery 3,744 3,860 4,186
£151,791 £198,437 £229,639
Sundry creditors . . 3,944 4,922 2,509
Net tangible assets . . £147,847 £193,515 £227,130
Thus all but a trifle of the year’s surplus
(£35.206) was paid out in loans on policies,
etc. Of the £34,664 by which this item in-
creased, £20,152 was on account of pre-
maturities. These are advances on policies
which will become claims within the next
few years; the claims, of course, will result
in a corresponding decrease in the actuarial
liability. When the books closed shareholders
could be called upon for a further £25,072;
but it is doubtful whether much, if any, of
that could be got in now. However, taking
the lot into the reckoning, and assuming that
house-purchase loans, secured by first mort-
gage, and other assets are worth their book
value, net tangibles were still £27,335 short
of the assurance fund.
What then are the co.’s prospects of re-
covery? With conditions as they are they
appear to be very slender. Recovery, never-
theless, is not impossible provided costs can
be got back quickly enough and far enough,
and provided also that lapses do not place
the goal out of reach. But what the direc-
tors need to consider is whether they are
justified in exposing policy-holders’ funds to
the possibility of further loss. Policy-holders’
prospects would be enhanced if the contracts
were taken over by a robust concern.
Certainly in the Ordinary department exes,
were almost cut in halves last year; they
made off with 35.6 p.c. of the net premiums
as against 63.3, 58.6, 59 and 41.6 p.c. back
to 1927. The amount of new business
put on the books (£95,125) was little more
than one-third of the previous year’s figure.
Renewals were only £17,310; whereas re-
newals plus first premiums amounted to
£26,855 in 1930. Lapses accounted for
most of the difference; hence the cost of
new business was 155.5 p.c. as against 16S,
157 and 144 p.c. in each of the three pre-
ceding years. That is on the generally
accepted basis that first premiums are 10
times more expensive than renewals.
In the Industrial section the slip in the
amount of new business written (£281,642)
was £121,133. Exes, took 53.2 p.c. of the
net premiums as against 65.5, 72.5, 68.5
and 63.8 p.e. back to 1927.
Interest, etc., brought in £10.910, equal
to 41 p.c. on mean funds. The office assumes
that its funds will earn 4 p.c.
The position in which the co. now finds
itself has been due chiefly to (1) the high
cost of putting the business on the books ;
(2) heavy lapses; (3) large losses in the
fire and marine section, sold in 1924 for
£25.378 in scrip; (4) the purchase of some
ready-made industrial contracts at too high
a price.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £> £,
1920.. 102,846 10 p.c. = 75,000 27,846 27,846
1921.. 57,549 71 „ „ 56,250 1,299 29,145
1922.. 4,192 Nil 4,192 33,337
1923.. 37,791 5 p.c. = 37,500 291 33,628
1924.. 51,272 64 „ „ 46,875 4,397 38,025
1925.. 60,806 6H „ „ 50,000 10,806 48,831
1926.. 56,725 6§ „ „ 50,000 6,725 55.556
1927.. 64,104 7.1 „ „ 53,125 10,979 66,535
1928.. 65,141 71 „ „ 56,250 8,891 75,426
1929.. 62,995 71 „ „ 56,250 6,745 82,171
1930.. 60,489 7-J „ „ 56,250 4,239 86,410
Jan.,
1932.. 56,695 64 „ „ 46,875 9,820 96,230
This lusty youngster of the 8.-P. group took
over the parents’ extensive island produce
and shipping business for £500,000 in
scrip in 1920, and 8.-P.’s shareholders
put up a further £250,000 (cash), making
paid capital £750,000. No goodwill figured
in the deal. The policy has been to keep
the div. moderate and extend and strengthen
the business. Thus shareholders have aver-
aged slightly under 6J p.c. since the begin-
ning. and the board has been able to wipe
£262,648 off the outside debt and add
£308,94S to the book value of plantations
and other properties since the close of
accounts in 1920, all out of earnings.
The state of island trade and the earn-
ings of those engaged in it depend very
largely upon the price of copra, which fell
sharply from £27 per ton in London about
three years ago to £lO ss. in June last,
and then rose to £l4 ss. at the end of
December. The effect upon this eo.’s mer-
chandise and other sales, shipping revenue,
etc., is reflected in a contraction of £22,955
in gross earnings over the last two years,
despite continued expansion of tlie business
and the spring in exchange—£loo in London
is now worth £llO in Fiji:—
Gross Exes. p.c.
Dec., Profit. Exes. of Gross.
1925 .. .. £169,632 £108,826 64.1
1926 .. .. 163,457 106,732 65.3
1927 .. .. 161,785 97,681 60.4
1928 .. .. 181,584 116,443 64.1
1929 .. .. 192,137 129,142 67.2
1930 .. .. 155.060 124,571 67.0
Jan.,
1932 . . . . 169,182 112,487 66.4
For the 13 months covered by the latest
accounts exes, were got back £12,084, leav-
ing the net result at 7.5 p.c. on capital as
against 8, 8.1, 8.0, 8.5 and 7.6 p.c. back
to 1926. But the cautious management
knocked 1-J points off the div., reducing it
to 6±- p.c., and more was visibly ploughed in.
During the term two new branches were
opened, one at Sigatoka (Fiji) and another
at Niue Island (Cook group), and the new
concrete headquarters which the co. is build-
ing itself at Suva (Fiji) were nearing com-
pletion when the books closed. Hence
£60,451 net was added to the properties
item, etc.:—•
1923. 1929. 1930. 1932.
Paid capital.. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities . . 57,058 85,092 67,104 41,753
Proper ties,
wharves, etc. 190,740 435,890 420,557 481,008
Stocks afloat. . 353,549 ( oqv «-tq °qo 919 <)Si
Merchandise.. 179,665 j J 12.981
Book debts . . 126,148 189,962 201,302 204,668
Cash . . .. 28,083 60,048 47,055 36,?01
Thus, to meet fhe outlay on fixed assets,
knock £25,351 off the amount coming to
sundry creditors and carry an extra £3366
of book debts’ the stocks item was reduced
by £77,569 and cash was drawn upon for
£10,854. Again the year’s expenditure on
fixed assets shows up in a contraction of
£60,006 in the more , or less liquid surplus
(£412,097, including stocks).
Much of the fall in the price of copra dur-
ing the last few years has been due to com-
petition from whale oil; and the outlook in
this respect has improved, though present
prices lack strength. Still, the co. is un-
affected by the disturbed conditions in Aus-
tralia, and the market prices the pound
shares at 31s. as against 275. a year ago.
At 31s. the return is 4.1 p.c. on a 6J p.c.
div. basis, or 5.1 p.c. should the distribution
rise to 8 p.c. The book value 1 of the backing
amounts to 225. 7d. in net tangibles.
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
Dividends and To Be- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Jan., ’24 .. 13,073 13i p.c.= 9281 3,792 121,209
Internal reserves disclosed.. £20,000 141,200
July. ’24 .. 17,028 15 p.c. = 10,312 6,716 147,916
Jan., ’25 . . 16,476 16i „ „ 11,344 5,132 153,048
July, ’25 .. 18,242 19 „ ~13,063 5,179 158,227
Jan., ’26 .. 14,945 20 „ ~13,750 1,195 159,422
July, ’26 . . 15,227 20 „ „ 13,750 1,477 160,899
Jan., ’27 .. 15,710 20. ~ ~13,750 1,960 162,859
July, ’27 .. 17,785 20 „ ~13,750 4,035 166,894
Jan., ’2B . . 17,799 20 „ „ 13,750 3,049 170,943
July, ’2B . . 15,085 20 „ ~ 13,750 1,335 172,278
Jan., ’29 . . 15,375 20 „ „ 13,750 1,625 173,903
July, ’29 .. 15,527 20 „ ~ 13,750 1,777 175,680
Jan., ’3O . . 15,074 20 „ „ 13,750 1,324 177,004
July, ’3O . . 17,448 20 „ „ 13,750 3,698 180,702
Jan., ’3l .. 3,281 14 ~ „ 9,62 k - 174,358
July, ’3l .. 1,141 1,141 175,499
Jan., ’32 .. 6,747 8 p.c. = 5,500 1,247 176,746
Not since the financial blizzard of the ’nine-
ties has this solidly-established and hitherto
very prosperous carrying, produce and agency
concern, whose business is scattered through
the N. S. Wales back country, been hit so
severely. During the post-war decade the
business expanded rapidly; surplus earnings
and a lot of outside money were used mainly
to finance clients and carry extra merchan-
dising stocks. Owing, to a dry spell,. which
increased the demand for stock food, earnings
were unaffected by the sharp fall in the
national income until the latter half of 1930.
Then, because of keener competition for the
better class accounts and the perplexing
nature of the debts problem, the management
decided to shorten sail; and the reduction of
stocks on a falling market and the need for
special provision against bad debts have
resulted in the collapse of profits and of
dividends.
For the 12 months to Jan. 31 gross earn-
ings (£88,300) fell away £25,609, making
the slip £19,964 over the last two years.
Exes. (£50,413) were pulled back £12,767,
leaving the year’s net result at 5.7 p.c. on
capital as against 15, 22.2, 22.1, 25.8, 22.5
and 24.1 p.c. for each of the preceding six
years. No div. was paid for the six months
to July 31 last —it was the first time since
1895 that shareholders failed to receive a
half-yearly distribution—but things im-
proved towards the close of accounts, and
the distribution for the next six months was
at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a., making 4 p.c. for
the year as against 17 p.c. for the preceding
12 months and a steady 20 p.c. for 41 years
before that.
With accumulations visibly £39.246 in
excess of capital, the two combined need net
only 4.3 p.c. to cover a 10 p.c. div. More-
over, the management has always shown a
remarkable capacity for adapting itself to
the many changes that have occurred in
trading conditions “out west,” and at inter-
vals has owned up that earnings have been
better than the published accounts claim.
Since 1910 divs. have averaged a fraction under
13 p.c., sweetened with £45,000 of gift scrip,
a cash bonus of £25,000 has been paid.
£55,195 has been brought from hiding and
put in the window, and another £20,000 of
inner reserves was used to write down the
book value of premises.
As usual there is nothing to worry about
in the finances :
1919. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £137,500 £137,500 £137,500 £137,500
Liabilities . . 70,930 131,331 86,314 78,239
Premises, plant,
etc. . . 21,152 51,236 50,479 47,209
Stocks . . 57,728 129,410 101,008 82,924
Book debts .. 125,170 217,913 183,272 173,004
McCulloch Co. 44,766 68,022 59,943 51,189
Cash & invest-
ments .. 46,330 7,943 23,163 48,914
Thus over the last two years the book value
of stocks has been reduced by £46,486.
debtors’ balances by £44.909, and £53,092
has been struck off the debt/ and the cash
holding, etc., has been strengthened by
£40,971. The co. holds £25.000 of scrip in
McCulloch’s, the Vic. subsidiary; the differ-
ence between that figure and ‘the entry in
the table represents advances, which were
reduced £8754 last year. Including advances
but not shares, the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£202.792) slipped £3280 during the 32
months.
There are 55,000 shares fully-paid to 50s.
each. They are priced at 725. 6d. on tin-
market as against 70s. a year ago. and 1455.
a year before that. The return at 725. 6d.
is 5A p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The back-
ing is £5 10s. 3d. in not muiiily
liquids and semi-liquids, including,book debts.
Mangrovite Belting, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Patent rights and trade-marks.. 6,782
1921.. 10,407 8.8 p.c. = 7729 2678 4,054
1922.. 13,201 10 ~ „ 8834 1 llin ~ 0 , ,
Special tax provision, £3257 j 11 u
Reserves.
1923.. 12,804 10 p.c. = 8834 3970 1,026
1924.. 12,642 10 „ ~ 9622 3020 4,046
1925.. 8,481 8 ~ „ 7993 488 4,534
1926.. 8,765 8J „ ~ 8834 4,465
1927.. 7,876 8 „ „ 8077 4,264
1928.. 9,066 84 „ 8552 484 4,748
1929.. 6,071 7 „ ~ 7067 3,752
Deficit.
1930.. 544 54 „ „ 5553 1,257
Added patents, £2B .. .. .. 1,285
1931.. 3,440 44 p.c. = 4542 2,381
For eight years after this co. took over
Charles Ludowici’s tanning and leather busi-
ness in 1917 shareholders averaged a shade
under 10 p.c., and bonus scrip, one for three,
was handed out in 1920. To provide tin-
gift, patent rights, not treated as an asset
herein, were given a book value- of £6732,
and tangibles were written up £13,000-odd.
After that, erratic markets, mounting costs
and industrial and other troubles affected
earnings, and for the five years to the close
of accounts in 1929 it was a struggle to
keep the div. around 8 p.e.
Last year the spring in exchange gave
export earnings a lift, pricesi were less
erratic and exes, were pulled back. So, de-
spite conditions in the home market and in
Southern Asia, where the co. lias developed
an export trade, the board was able
to show 3.1 p.c. on capital as against 0.5.
6. 8.9, 7-8, 8.6, 8.4 and 13.1 p.c. back to
1924. But times are hard and since there
was nothing uneasy about the finances 44
p.c. was distributed, the final div. being at
the rate of 4 p.c. p.a.
Including stock, the more or less liquid
surplus (£37,936) was £1063 lighter than
at the previous balance, as this comparison
of balance-sheet figures shows: —
Dee., Dec., Dec., Dec.,
1923. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £88,333 £100,963 £100,963 £100,963
Liabilities . . 7,008 1,70.6 879 1,481
Property & plant 54,040 65,437 64,694 63,932
Stocks.'. .. 39,123 34,134 30,928 31,743
Kook debts .. 11,061 7,883 4,912 5,991
Cash, etc. . . 818 5,914 4,038 1,683
Much, of course, depends upon the stock
figures, the soundness of debtors’ balances
and upon the efficiency of tire plant. Tin-
fact that the works are in N. S. Wales is a
handicap so far as outside competition is
concerned.
The' scrip, covered by net tangibles with a
book value of 19s. 6d., is offered at 10s.
McDoilnell and East, Ltd. (Brisbane)
( Dividends
Pref. To Re-
Jan., Loss. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1922.. 1,080 720 3 p.c. = 5,436 1,060
Profit.
1923.. 9,428 720 5 „ „ 9,060 1,412
Loss.
1924.. 2,211 720 Nil —• 4,343
Profit. Reserves.
1925.. 17,277 720 6 p.c. = 11,015 5,542 1,199
Deficit.
Added goodwill, £2750 .. .. 1,551
Reserves.
1926.. 20,381 720 7 p.c. = 12,851 6,810 5,259
Added goodwill, £2750 .. .. 2,509
1927.. 14,195 720 7 p.c. = 13,015 460 2,969
Added goodwill, £2750 .. .. 219
1928.. 11,240 720 Nil 10,520 10,739
Added goodwill, £2750 . . . . 7,989
1929.. 14,234 720 6 p.c. = 11,162 3,294 10,341
1930.. 10,746 720 3 „ „ 4,651 5,375 15,716
Loss.
1931.. 970. 720 Nil 14,026
Profit.
1932.. 2,505 720 Nil 1,785 15,811
At the beginning—tlxe co. took over the then
19-year-old business of McDonnell and East
in 1920 —it looked like a steady 8 p.c. pro-
position. But following the short, sharp
post-war slump cuts had to be made in tin-
book value of stocks in 1921, and again a
little later. After this misadventure was
past the directors decided it was time the
co. had a home worthy of what they hoped
the future would he; and they went outside
for most of the money. Meanwhile, drought
laid a heavy hand on the west of Queens-
land, and narrowed the city merchants’ mar-
gins ; thus the co. got little out of its bigger
trading, and the ords. averaged only 4.5 p.c.
for the decade to the close of accounts in
1930.
Then slump and the tariff, exchange and
other difficulties brought a small loss for
the year to the end of January, 1931. Trade
brightened a little during the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts; still, though
more customers were served, turnover shrank
and gross earnings (£64,237) fell away a
further £B9BO, making the slip £31,617 over
the last two' years. The outlets were over-
hauled, and exes. (£61,732, including £1049
specially set aside for advertising) were got
back £12,455. Nevertheless, after paying the
small pref. div., there was enough to show
but a wink over 1 p.c. on the £172,027 of
ord. capital; so no div. was paid. Interest
reduction legislation has afforded the co. a
little relief, the full benefit of which will
not be felt until the close of next accounts;
but the position will look a lot better when
the outside debt is substantially reduced.
There is nothing in sight to suggest anything
but moderate returns.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it: —
1926. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £170,338 £181,027 £181,027 £181,027
Mortgages .. 16,200 53,000 52,500 51,760
Overdraft . . 28,862 77,343 66,878 66,296
Sundry creditors 32,045 38,336 19,349 15,356
Land, buildings,
plant, etc... 64,107 131.730 130,135 129,828
Stocks.. .. 111,617 120,079 102,025 101,211
Book debts,
cash, etc. . . 94,825 117,216 103,697 100,624
Last year’s net reduction in the debt was
£5325, and the improvement in the more or
(Continued on page 16.)


BBHHM HBmpBSI
m m
&
TO IMITATE IS
NOT TO EQUAL
NlVld
JO
SdIJL MOD
il M /Ol
o9VDI
AMD CORK TIPS DO MOT
MAKE OTHER CIGARETTES
AS GOOD AS BJMC
B.D.V’s are well filled, well packed cigarettes, manufactured
only from pure imported Virginia tobacco. Quality alone has
been the cause of their achieving such amazing popularity
within a year.
D
□
AUSTRALIA'S POPULAR
CORK TIPPED CIGARETTES


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* $ * $
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.-—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
:a-m-p
m
ts
1
ffre
m
"’C' ■
&
i
l\U\\
i\ \
Their Happiness and Security
can be linked together
IT is a rare marriage that does
not begin in happiness. It
is a tribute to the good sense
and companionableness of men
and women that most marriages
continue in happiness. When
responsibilities are accepted
and shouldered cheerfully, mar-
riage is a triumph.
The first responsibility of
every bridegroom is to insure
his life—to provide that his
wife shall be able to “carry on”
in the event of his death—and
it is a responsibility that is
easily shouldered by becoming
a member of the A.M.P.
Society.
For what amount should a
man assure himself? That
depends on his income. To
ensure that his widow shall
have an income of £3 a week,
a man should leave a policy or
policies valued at £3OOO. Few
men v can begin at that figure.
The first policy is usually one
for £5OO. A man of 27, in
good health, can have an
A.M.P. policy for £5OO for an
Annual Premium of £ll/3/9,
a little over 4/- a week.
Other policies may be added
as income permits. Besides,
A.M.P. policies grow by the
addition of bonuses. Many a
£5OO policy has grown to
£ 1 000 before the member died.
Wise, therefore, is the bride-
groom who makes an early
start to build up assurance.
Doing it, he can link security to
happiness and give himself
peace of mind.
LEARN HOW LITTLE IT WILL COST.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
This advertisement has set me thinking. I am
years of age. Tell me what it would cost to carry enough assurance
to give my wife £3 a week after I’m gone.
Name
Address
A • MP>
less liquid surplus (£68,433, including
stocks) was £1438. Much depends upon the
soundness of debtors’ balances and the figure
at which stocks have been taken into the
sheet.
The pound ords. are priced at 4s. 6d. on
the market. At that figure the return would
be 8.9 p.c., on a 2 p.c. div. basis. The cover
amounts to 225. lid. in net tangibles. There
are 9000 8 p.c. cum. prefs., which rarely
appear on ’Change.
Metal Market Crash
The London average price of lead in
February was £l4 11s. 3d. and of spelter
£l4 Is. 7d.; and on the strength of these
much-improved figures the Sulphide Corpora-
tion decided to reopen the Central mine at
Broken Hill. The registration of men began,
and it was hoped that 600 would have
regular employment. The decision had not
been reached, however, before the market
began to weaken, due mainly, no doubt, to
the improvement in sterling. As the Budget-
ary position in the U.S.A. grew worse and
in Britain better, the disparity between ster-
ling and gold was further lessened. This
was reflected in the averages for March,
which were down to £l2 9s. 9d. for lead and
£l2 16s. 4d. for spelter. That was bad
enough; but during the last days of the
month the metal markets simply crashed;
and last Friday the London prices were for
lead £9 17s. 6d. and for spelter £lO 15s.
Apart from monetary causes no explanation
is forthcoming, so there are no grounds on
which to judge whether the crash is likely
to last. The Central • shut down with lead
at about £l5, and, though some improve-
ments and economies have since been made,
they certainly can’t offset so great a fall in
quotations.
The markets for other metals are also
seriously disturbed, as the following com-
plete table shows: —
Last
Feb. March Week’s
Average. Average. Closing.
Copper (elect.) £4l 15 11 £37 5 1 £34 0 0
Lead .. .. 14 11 3 12 9 9 9 17 6
Spelter.. . . 14 1 7 12 16 5 10 15 0
Tin . . . . 139 4 8 129 18 2 106 15 0
Silver (fine) .. 19 1 7| 1 6f
The agreement entered into between the
cos. and the labor union at the end of 1930,
before the big leap in exchange, provided for
suspension of operations should the London
price of lead remain below £l5 per ton for
24 consecutive days. With exchange as it
is £9 17s. 6d. in London is worth £l2 6s.
lid. in Australian notes.
Bulolo Gold Dredging
Bulolo Gold Dredging, an offshoot of Placer
Development, was registered in Vancouver
on June 11. 1930, to take over and work
the Bulolo River flats in the mountains in
New Guinea. The prospectus estimate was
that No. 1 dredge would begin in about 21
months ; and No. 2 six months later. Actu-
ally the hydro-electric plant has been in-
stalled, and No. 1 dredge began digging on
March 21, only 10 days behind schedule.
All equipment had to be transported by large
’planes, built for tlie purpose in Germany and
operated by New Guinea Airways, Ltd.,
a prosperous Adelaide-controlled concern. To
date over 2400 tons of equipment lias been
tlius transported without mishap. Costs,
too, are reported to be thus far within the
original estimate; and nearly all material
for the second dredge is on the ground. It
is all a fine testimony to the enterprise, care
and thoroughness of the management. The
market anxiously awaits results of the first
run of the dredge which should be announced
any day now.
Taking gold at £4 per ounce, Bulolo’s ori-
ginal area was estimated to contain over 40
million c.y. of 2s. Id. dirt, and,there is a
further 25 million c.y. of Is. 4d. gravel
measured up in the new’ Bulowat and Burn-
side areas, recently taken over from Placer.
Untested ground is said to contain at least
another 10 million yards of payable stuff.
To finance equipment of the new property,
on which two new dredges arc to be in-
stalled, making four in all, Bulolo recently
accepted the offer of the Oroville Co. and
the International Mining Corp. to take up
65,000 new five-dollar shares. Placer, which
holds 151,000-odd Bulolo shares, is to
receive another 75,000 f.p. two months after
the first dredge begins, and a further 75,000
f.p. two months after the second one sets in.
A final allotment to Placer will be made two
. years after dredging begins on the new area;
the amount of this will depend upon results
obtained by Bulolo.
Last week-end the Sydney market priced
Bulolo’s scrip at £2 135., and Placer’s at £7
155.; both are five-dollar (Canadian) shares.
Appreciation of the value of gold in terms
of paper has made production of the metal
more profitable, thus livening the output of
existing producers and causing more ginger
to be put into the hunt for new finds, as well
as reviving many old low-grade deposits
which became unprofitable with the metal at
the statutory price of £4 4s. llld. per fine
ounce. The spring in the aggregate output
of the six States last year was 125,1630 z.
fine, as the following table shows: —
Gold Production.
1929. 1930. 1931.
Fine oz. Fine oz. Fine oz.
Westralia .. .. 377,176 416,369 510,570
Victoria .. . . 26,275 24,119 43,637
N. S. Wales .. .. 11,096 12,493 19,673
Queensland .. .. 9,476 7,821 10,321
Tasmania .. .. 5,597 4,466 4,759
S. Aus 1,099 1,311 2,782
Total .. .. 430,629 466,579 591,742
Thus each State contributed to the increase.
Of the growth in the Westralian figures
Wiluna accounted for 58,9540 z. and South
Kalgurli 10,6000 z. The current year’s figures,
to which Lake View and Star should make
an extra contribution, promise to further
expand. The price paid by the Mint and
the banks for fine gold is the London price
plus exchange at the ruling telegraphic rate
Australia/London, less estimated cost of re-
mitting the metal, at present about 1-| p.c.
Settlement is made within 14 days after
lodgment.
At the end of 1930 the Commonwealth
Government agreed to pay a bounty of £1
per fine ounce on all gold won in excess of
451,4320 z., the average production for the
three years to the close of 1930. Payment
was to be made in Australian notes for 10
years from Jan. 1, 1931. Six months later
the bounty was reduced to 10s. per fine
ounce from July 1, 1931, with a proviso for
an increase of Is. per ounce for every fall
of 3 p.c. in the exchange.
* * * . *
B. H. Prop., which is interested as a share-
and debenture-holder, has been asked to do
something with the Westralian Manganese
Co.’s derelict venture. The co. built SO
miles of railway and partly opened up the
outcrop of a huge manganese deposit before
providing facilities for shipment or securing
a market for its product. Then, when Rus-
sian and other competition forced the price
of manganese down and funds became ex-
hausted, disheartened shareholders moved
out and debenture-holders reluctantly moved in.
$
South Kalgurli, according to latest esti-
mates, has liquid assets, including £SO,OOt)
cash in London, amounting to nearly 12s.
a share. Including exchange and the gold
bonus, the co. is reckoned to be earning at
the rate of 100 p.c. p.a. or thereabouts on
its £150,000 of share capital. Ore reserves
are roughly three years ahead of the mill, but
new finds in old workings of the South
Kalgurli and Hainault leases are expected
to lengthen the life of the property. Of
course, there is always the possibility of
amalgamation with the North Kalgurli or
another neighbor.
* * !f.
Pilbara, Westralia’s furthest-out mineral
field, is being described by interested persons
as a place worth attention. Certainly the
field has produced a million pounds’ worth
of gold, but its inaccessibility, and therefore
the cost of transport, is a big handicap.
Short, narrow and unreliable shoots is
another.
* * * «
There is talk of Whim Well Copper Mines
(W.A.), now in the hands of debenture-
holders, being raised from the dead. The
last act of the old co. was to experiment
with a new type of sulphide plant; but
results were unsatisfactory, both as regards
recoveries and costs.
sse :’s
Claude de Bernales is hopeful of raising
enough capital in' London or elsewhere to
give the Sand Queen-Gladsome goldmines
(W.A.) another start. The shoot is of fair
length and grade, but the old price of gold
was not sufficient to overcome drawbacks.
ijc i|s v v
Despite restrictions, two of Alluvial Tin’s
Malayan subsidiaries have given a good
account of themselves for 1931. Changkat
recovered 605 tons of tin oxide, averaging
1..151b. per cubic yard, at a cost of 2 15-16 d.
per yard. Net profit for the year was £23,976.
From this two dividends totalling £6500 (Is.
per share) have been paid ; £2948 was written
off, and £5OOO was reserved for additions and
alterations to the dredge. The credit at
p. and 1. was £22,933 at Dec. 31. Kramat
treated 2,635,000 c.y. for 841 tons of
ore, an average of 1.341 b. per yard. Re-
covery costs averaged 2 3-16 d. per yard. The
year’s net profit was £36.754, out of which
three 6d. divs. took £12.375. and another 6d.
per share has been declared, payable at the
end of April. The credit at p. and 1. was
£24,544 at the close of 1931. The annual
meeting of both companies will take place at
Selangor (F.M.S.) on May 17.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What is the premium per cent, and the
price per fine ounce paid for gold by the
Mint in Australia for each of the last 10
weeks ? —9051.
The price per ounce, including exchange,
is fixed by the Commonwealth Bank every
Tuesday. It applies to gold lodged at the
Mint during the preceding week. The figures
for the last 11 weeks compare as follows: —
Week Premium, Price
Commencing p.c. Date Fixed. per Fine Oz.
Jan. 11 72 Jan. 19 £7 6 1
„ 18 75 „ 26 7 8 8
„ 25 74 Feb. 2 7 7 9A
Feb. 1 731 „ 9 7 7 4
„ 8 74 „ 16 7 7 91
„ 15 73-1 „ 23 7 7 4
„ 22 72 Mar. 1 7 6 1
„ 29 701 „ 8 7 410
Mar. 7 65 „ 15 7 0 lj
„ 14 64 „ 22 619 Si
„ 21 57J „ 30 613 91
From these prices Mint charges must be
deducted.
With copra quoted at £l4 10s. in London
what should we be getting in New Guinea?
—9210 a.
At present rate of exchange £l4 10s. in
London is worth £lB 2s. 6d. in Australia.
But from that has to be deducted the costs
of shifting the copra from plantation to
London, plus the cost of shifting money from
Australia to New Guinea.
(If Any market for mica in Australia?
(2) Export prospects? (3) Would a vein of
mica, black at outcrop, become ivhite with
depth? (4) To ivhat depth has mica been
mined? (5) What other minerals are likely
to be associated with it? (6) Composition
and theory of formation? (7) Any uses and
demand for ilmenite? —9061.
(1) Electrical insulating firms are the
most likely purchasers. Mica must be in
large sheets to be saleable; small flakes are
of no value. (2) Central Australia is the
only place where saleable mica has been pro-
duced. Cost of transport would seriously
affect export prospects. (3) A vein of black
mica would not become white with depth;
color depends upon composition. Black mica
is known as Biotite and white as Muscovite.
(4) In India the natives have mined mica
for centuries, the workings being several
hundred feet in depth. In Canada a depth
of 100 ft. lias been reached by open pit
methods. (5) Mica usually occurs in asso-
ciation with large masses of quartz and fel-
spar, forming pegmatitic dykes. (6) Com-
plex silicates of potash and alumina, often
containing sodium, iron, magnesium, calcium
and fluorine. Mica is formed by crystal-
lisation from material of igneous origin.
(7) Ilmenite is used for the manufacture
of a titanium oxide pigment, a very opaque
white paint.
(1) Australian market possibilities for
quicksilver? (2) Export possibilities and
price? (3) What is considered payable,
price ? —8892.
(1) Elliott Bros, or H. B. Selby could
probably furnish the information. (21
Export possibilities depend upon the price
at which the metal can be sold. Quick-
silver is quoted in London at £l7 15s. per
bottle of 72 pounds. (3) Depends upon
a number of factors, including the grade
and class of ore, size, nature and location
of deposit.
(1) When were the Copeland ( N.8.W. )
diggings worked? (2) Tonnage and yields?
(3) Population during the boom? (4) How
far are mines from Gloucester? (5) Any
other details ? —9057.
(1) From 1576 to ISBI. (2) There were
8553 tons of ore crushed for 22,6750 z. of
gold. (3) In 1878 population was 1100, of
whom 800 were miners. (4) Ten miles.
(5) Reefs were numerous, but the shoots
of gold-bearing stone were short and irre-
gular.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.8.C.: At present div. rates and market
prices none of those stocks are earning bank interest.
Nos. 3 and 4 have slumped least; if pressed, sell
those and reduce overdraft. No. 2 next in order.
No. 1 is very low, owing to moratoriums, etc. ; it
is probably worth nursing. The recovery in sterling
should tend to lower Australian prices... .G.E.W.:
Not recommended. See B. 25/11/”31 X.T.C.:
You are liable for the balance for the payment of
outside debts, but in view of the fact that the co.
is not carrying out its original plans you may
make that grounds for refusing to pay further calls.
Wait until they talk of suing, anyway K.F.a!
(Kojomup) : (a) The formation of Anzil Hemplands,
Ltd., was part of the scheme as outlined in the
prospectus. This is the point where bondholders get
control of the business. We are not aware of the
“guaranteed” issue; if there is such a thing, forma-
tion of the co. would probably relieve the promoters
from the guarantee. So, if you want to be on the
safe side, don’t convert until your guarantee expires.
(6) Cannot say. (c) They will still own their
land, etc., but will probably be. left out in the cold
as far as further development is concerned. (d)
Very slight. .. .H.G.S.: The promoters were arrested
and charged with conspiracy, but were discharged.
The co. appears to have faded out.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Trade with Rhodesia
Rhodesia wants to trade with Australia ;
and The Bulletin receives from one of the
largest distributing houses there an assur-
ance that there is a good market awaiting
our tinned meats, flour, biscuits, jams, wines
and brandy. There is, it is said, a strong
feeling throughout the country in favor of
Dominion trade, and it would very gladly
exchange Chicago and other American pro-
ducts for those of Australia. Dealings with
the South African Union have hitherto been
considerable; but the Union’s currency has
made these more difficult, and in any case
the range of goods S. Africa can offer is
small. Mr. D. A. Phillips, of Tenth Avenue,
Umtali, S. Rhodesia, is interesting himself
keenly in the matter, and suggests that Aus-
tralian exporters should get into communi-
cation with him.
Rubber
The rubber industry is at the lowest ebb
in its history. The price is down to under
2d. per pound. There are, it is estimated,
600,000 tons in stock, an enormous surplus.
The recent conference between the British
and Netherlands Governments came to the
conclusion that, if this total could be reduced
to 300,000 tons, prices might improve; but
it sadly admitted that it didn’t know how to
achieve this end. The Dutch are still the
stumbling-block to the proposed renewal of
restriction. When the British decided to go
in for restriction five or six years ago on
their own account, it was feared that the only
result would be to promote growing in the
Dutch East Indies. This actually happened
and on an unpredictable scale. Natives
started planting in their back yards all over
the vast Dutch dominions. It cost them
nothing and was a sort of sideline. The
British planters loyally observed restriction,
and an expensive preventive service had to
be maintained to stop smuggling by native
growers in Malaya, who sold their product
in the open markets of Sumatra. Despite
heavy penalties this smuggling went on
merrily, and by the time restriction was
abandoned the Malayan gaols were over-
crowded with captured smugglers. So large
and diffused is the native rubber-plant now
that even the Dutch Government doesn’t
know the exact acreage; and one reason
why it doesn’t favor restriction is that it
fears endless trouble with its huge popula-
tion of colored subjects and possibly rebel-
lion. Hence the poor prospect of an early sub-
stantial improvement in price.
The Dominions in Glasgow
I have just witnessed a unique occurrence
(a Glasgow correspondent writes) : a civic
reception accorded to a ship. The vessel
was the Federal liner Middlesex; Lord Pro-
vost Sir Thomas Kelly came down to' the
dock, and in his chain of office knocked out
the first wedge in the hatch covering, and
thus formally welcomed a direct shipment of
M.L. produce. After that there was a pro-
cession of 60 decorated vehicles loaded with
M.L. foodstuffs, and a mass meeting arranged
by the Overseas League, at which an appeal
was issued to Scottish housewives to “buy
Empire.” Harold M. Ford, the commercial
manager of the Clyde Navigation Trust,
whose friendship for Australia and Enzed
The Bulletin has already noted, was in
charge of the whole affair.
Thieving Shopkeepers
“Scot” : Dole inspectors are appointed to
keep in check the rascality of the man on
the road, though he is so seldom a rascal
that it is doubtful whether these inspectors
save sufficient to pay their salaries. Why
not inspectors to ensure that the man on the
road has some protection from rogues who
bleed him? A man who draws rations is
given a list of articles which he may re-
ceive and which is valued at, say, 6s. 6d. If
he does not care for articles on that list, he
may exchange for others on a second list;
and almost certainly he will be badly caught
in making the exchange. Only the other day
I found that bacon had gone up 3d. a pound
to the swagman, and that eggs, tenpence a
dozen to the ordinary customer, had leapt
to Is. 3d. when I and others asked for
them. Of bread, again, the man on the road
in N. S. Wales receives three loaves per
week. But many dole bakers have raised
to a fine art the business of palming off
stale bread which has been reconditioned and
which goes stale quickly. The third loaf
has often to be thrown away. It is surely
possible to evolve a system of coupons (at
least for bread and meat) whereby a man
could draw half of his rations in one town
and the other half, some days later, in a
town 20 (more or less) miles away. That
would ensure his receiving and being able to
eat all of his bread and meat. But it may be
too. intricate a scheme for the official brains
which granted the swagman 41b. of meat
weekly and denied him a match with which
to light a fire to cook it.
The Small Farmer in Russia
On page .1240 of the “Statesman’s Year-
Book” for 1931 appears a brief record
of how Red Russia’s Five-year Plan
was getting on so far as the small farmer
was concerned. An almost identical
explanation appears on page 861 of
“Whitaker’s Almanack.” It was late in 1928
that the populace received notice from
Stalin and its other omnipotents that a new
and tremendous step was to be taken. In
that year, the tenth of the glorious revolu-
tion, the little individual farmer was to
begin to be “socialised” in definite earnest.
He was to hand over his farm and become
a socialised item, working for his own good
°d huge. State farms, in which thousands
of the little old individualistic farms had
been swallowed up. He became pretty mad
at this, and among other wild proceedings
be. began a general slaughter of his animals,
thinking he might as well eat them as lose
them. This is the official record of animals:
TI 1929. 1930. Decrease.
Horses.. .. 34,000,000 31,200,000 2,800,000
•Swine . . .. 29,900,000 12,200,000 17,70-0,000
Oattie.. .. 66,700,000 62,600,000 14,100,000
Sheep and goats 147,200,000 89,900,000 67*300,000
About the slaughter of humanity in the
struggle of unarmed peasants that followed
and the wholesale deportations to Siberia
very little is known. Little is always known
where the State owns all the newspapers.
The Fishing Industry up North
“C. Coral” (Thursday Island) : An enter-
prise just started at the Murray Islands, in
Torres Strait (right up at the head of the
Barrier), is the preserving of sardines and
similar small fish. This is not the first time
the thing has been tried, the late J. S. Bruce
having 30 years or more back tinned them in
oil; but the present co. plans to dry and
salt for export to Java and thereabouts. Over
two years of preparatory work has been put
in ; and Professor Goddard, of Brisbane Uni-
versity, who has made a trip to the islands
to study the habits of the fish, etc., is return-
ing well satisfied with the results. The co.
hopes to handle 250 tons a month ; and this
will absorb some of the native labor of the
islands, both in catching and preparing what
Professor Goddard calls “Torres Strait
herrings.” There is, of course, the question
whether supplies are large enough to meet
requirements; at times the sardines (of
which there are four varieties at least) are
scarce, and nobody knows where the shoals
go at certain periods. However, on this point
Professor Goddard declares himself well satis-
fied. If the project turns out successfully
something may be done with the shoals of
mullet and other fish which abound in the
Straits waters. One fish of the unicorn
species ought to be also productive; it pro-
duces a very rich oil, which may possess
medicinal properties; a couple make suffi -
cient to fill a beer-bottle. The natives use
it in cooking. One of the outcomes of tbe
visit of Professor Goddard will probably be
the establishment of a biological station at
Thursday Island ; there is a great field for
research in the Straits.
The Malaria-prevention Monopoly
When seeking new industries Canberra
might do much' worse than consider the
cultivation of cinchona. Not long since
the League of. Nations health bureau esti-
mated that 650 millions of the earth’s inhabi-
tants suffer from the disease which helped
the downfall of the Roman Empire, frus-
trated the first attempt to build; a Panama
canal, and keeps millions of the King’s sub-
jects in a state of. semi-somnolence from
the cradle to the grave. - It was also esti-
mated that it would require 26,000 tons of
quinine annually to maintain health amongst
this mass of suffering humanity. The worid’s
supply of quinine is little more than 500
tons, and it is to all intents and purposes
a monopoly,’of the Dutch Government, since
about 97 p.c. of it comes from Java. To
abuse our Dutch cousins for this state of
affairs is to beg the question. They had
the enterprise to get tbe seeds from South
America when the world’s need was desper-
ate, and by dint of scientific development
under Government supervision they built up
a great industry. Attempts to break the
monopoly in Ceylon and India came to
naught owing to Dutch efficiency, though
there are plenty of areas in the British
Empire where the plant could be grown
in similar conditions to those in Java, and
probably Northern Australia is one of them.
The monopoly has really come about through
the inability of other countries to produce
the drug at a price that will compete with
the price fixed by the Dutch Kinabureau in
Amsterdam. It might be argued that for
Australia to attempt the task would be to
court disaster, but the same thing was said
about rice, yet Australia now produces most
of the rice she eats at a figure that com-
pares favorably with the native-grown
article. That is solely due to the superior
science employed by the Australian pro-
ducers. Malaria is liable to become a scourge
in Australia’s tropics at any time, and to
have tbe cure plentiful and handy would
be an advantage.
Westralian Timber
Nothing better illustrates the rapid decay
of the bush-timber industry in Westralia than
employment figures for the past five years.
In 1920 the total employed was just on
4500; in 1925, 3750; 1926, 3000; 1927, 2500 ;
1928, 2250; 1929, 2000; 1930, 1750; 1931,
1500; at present it is doubtful if this year
will end with more than 1000. In the early
part of 1930 one of the largest of the milling
cos., which commenced its business in 1885,
had all its eight mills in operation—Jarrah-
dale, Marrinup, Nanga Brook, Hoffman,
Mornington, Kirup, Jarrahwood and Canning.
To-day only Mbrnington (on a reduced
scale) and Canning are at work. It was in
June, 1930, that the men swung into the
State Court for an award, and got it, with
an increase in wages, etc., amounting to
£25,000 per year; thus an industry already
knocking at the knees found itself reduced
to working with a skeleton staff, and that
only in the hope of something better turning
up. And it should be remembered that
Westralia has the finest tariff friend of them
all —the white ant, which has effectively kept
out softwoods such as are used in the
Eastern States. The industry has simply
gone the way of others to uphold a standard
of living which has collapsed of its own
weight, leaving the great majority of men in
the industry without any living at all.
N. S. Wales Friendly Societies
Dear Bulletin, —Mr. Williams says (B.
16/3/’32) “the granting of ‘subvention’ has
not resulted in any financial advantage to
the societies, but has conferred benefits upon
the aged and invalid members which could
not be paid prior to its introduction.” Isn’t
this an admission that the Government, and
not the societies, is carrying the members?
If the £77,483 granted in 1930 to the friendly
societies does not benefit them, as stated by
Mr. Williams, why all this talk about de-
stroying politicians because they intend to
take away £27,433 from an amount that is
of no benefit? “The medical and chemist
fees paid by the Government under ‘sub-
vention’ goes to the doctors and chemists,”
says Mr. Williams. This is confirmation of
my statement that we are getting something
for nothing, and that, in many cases, men
of means are receiving their medical and
chemist benefits at the cost of a suffering
country. I don’t object to members of
friendly societies holding their hand out with
the rest of the community for Government
pap, but I do object to them doing it when
they call themselves “independent" and talk
about their thrift—Yours, Oddfellow.
Some little while ago a printed sugges-
tion was made that the petrol blended with
Newncs spirit—distilled from kerosene shale
—was below standard, and motorists were
warned against using the product. Recently
officials of the N.R.M.A., accompanied by
Prof. Eastaugh, of Sydney Uni., visited
various service stations and took 10 samples
of the Newnes-blended petrol. An analysis
by the prof, shows that in the matter of
volatility (the point on which the attack
was mostly concentrated) the spirit at every
part of the temperature range is well inside
the U.S.A. Government specifications, and
follows with very slight and unimportant
variations the same curve as other good
petrols on the market. As to risk from cor-
rosion, Cooksey, Newman and Co., analysts,
Sydney, certify that the sulphur content is
extraordinarily small —only 0.017 p.c.,
whereas the U.S.A. Government specification
allows 1 p.c.
* * * *
The most surprising item in the first quar-
terly report of the Queensland Meat Indus-
try Board is the large proportion of “con-
demned sundries” at the Brisbane abattoirs.
“Rigid inspection” resulted in the condemna-
tion of no less than 80 p.c. of pigs’ livers,
40 p.c. of pigs’ kidneys, 38 p.c. of ox livers,
33 p.c. of sheep’s livers and 23 p.c. of pigs’
heads. “The parasitic diseases which cause
most of these condemnations are controllable
by the producers of livestock,” the board
declares ; and it is “considering the question
of providing some means whereby individual
consumers can be assisted to eliminate such
diseases.” The proportion of whole carcases
condemned is, on the other hand, quite small
—5 bullocks in 1000, 20 cows, 3 sheep, 3
calves and less than 2 pigs; of lambs only
1 in about 14,000.
* * * *
“ j.S.L.” : I’ll agree with “Spinifex” that
the new Queensland District Improvement
Boards are an imposition; but at least they
are a smaller imposition than the Rabbit
and Dingo Boards which they superseded.
Last year the latter cost me £O9; this year
the D. 1.8. is costing me £B.
* * * *
Holdens-General Motor’s (S.A.) have now
landed the job of building bodies in Australia
for the British Vauxhall car. The works
already keep 700 men going.
* * * *
“Murrawong”: Be fancy prices paid for
certain super lines of wool (B. 2/3/’32).
Unfortunately, the man in the street only
sees the record prices and is seldom suffi-
ciently interested to find out for himself
that, while one grower may pick the eyes
out of his clip for a fancy price to adver-
tise his stud, the big Western (N.S.W.)
clips of 500 to 1000 bales don’t average
more than 7d. per pound.
LANG AND THE WORKERS.
THIRSTY WORKER: You’ve been leading us to that river you’ve promised us for over a year, and it’s as far off as ever.”
INCOMPETENT EXPLORER: “But look at the beautiful puddles I keep finding for you.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Grand Opera Season
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
royal “Bitter Sweet”
King’s “The Barretts of Wimpole Street
State Movies and Talkies
»
“Black Bondage,” written by Mrs. Alan
Hynes, and produced at St. James s llall by
the New Sydney Rep. Soc., takes up the story
of “White Cargo” where the Leon Gordon play
ends, with Allan Langford being shipped home,
a piece of human wreckage. Left behind
amidst the mosquitoes and the damp rot was
Tondeleyo, the dusky belle whom he had
married. When the curtain rang down it
was doubtful whether the dark-hued charmer
would live or not. The authoress begins the
continuation of the play in London. Lang-
ford, still highly strung and given to fierce
mutterings against Africa, is living with Ins
mother, who feels that something tragic hap-
pened to him while he was abroad, but is un-
able to persuade him to tell her the facts.
Grace Witzel, sister of the embittered planta-
tion manager wdio had made Langford s stay
so unpleasant in Africa, is attracted to the
young man, and it is mother’s wish that they
should marry. Then the kindly, boozing
doctor who was a spectator of Langford s
folly abroad puts in an appearance. He
informs the young man that Tondeleyo
vanished after her husband’s departure,
and had not been seen since. vVitzel
also arrives in London. On meeting
lie and Langford bicker. Witzel, with his
taunts regarding Tondeleyo, goads Langford
into declaring that Witzel’s sister is in love
with him. Witzel demands that the young
man shall make known his marring t to a
native. Langford, knowing that if he
doesn’t Witzel will, tells Grace how he came
to marry Tondeleyo. Grace weeps copiously,
but promises to wait until Langford is free.
Mother promptly disowns her offspring.
Langford leaves home for parts unknown
to the accompaniment of tears, faintings
and hysterical words with Witzel. The last
net finds him back on the plantation seek-
ing news of Tondeleyo. His efforts are
unsuccessful, and when Witzel makes a
surprise entry he is still in doubt
whether he is a widower or not. Wiizel’s
aim js to aid Langford in the search, the out-
come of tearful pleadings on the pai t of
Grace. It is eventually learned that Ton-
deleyo has shinned up the golden s’airs.
The acting was fairly satisfactory. William
Gates (Langford) was impressive from start
to finish, Gilbert Unsworth (Witzel) played
his r6le a trifle too intensely, William Hynes
was happily cast as the doctor, Thomas Lowe
was colorless as the padre, and J. O. Harvey,
Dennis Glenny and George Reid provided
interesting character studies in minor roles.
Dorothy De Sallis was effective as Ton-
deleyo. Muriel Connors (Mrs. Langford)
didn’t look old enough for the part, and over-
acted. Noreen Malone, who played Grace
Witzel, is better fitted for comedy than for
tragedy.
* * *
At. Sydney Savoy last week Doris Fitton’s
Independent Theatre players provided an
extremely entertaining double bill. The pro-
gramme opened with “A Masque of Old
Sydney,” by Kathleen Monypenny, who
is on the staff of the Mitchell Library.
The scene of the masque, which throws
back to 1832, is the corner of King and Eliza-
beth streets, where the Supreme Court and
St. James’s Church stood and still stand. It
begins with a scarlet-coated officer of the
watch chanting the time and the condition
of the weather. He is followed by a milk-
man, who has a few pleasantries to say to
a maid awaiting him with a jug. Then
follows a procession of tradesmen, Govern-
ment officials, ragamuffins, convicts and other
characters of the day. Mr. Justice Roger
Therry (Charles Arundel-Nott), very dapper
in a green costume, was among the throng,
and so was Billy Blue (Dick Hahn), wrongly
described as an aboriginal, the waterman who
used to carry passengers between the points
now traversed by the Sydney Harbor Bridge.
Bungaree (Leslie Frederick) and Gooseberry
(Ailsa Sutherland), an aboriginal couple
well known in Sydney in the ’thirties, were
also present. Among the fictitious characters
who stood out from the rest were the quaint
hot-cross-buns man (Albert Collins), a jovial
fiddler (J. E. Campbell) the town-crier (Cliff
McDonald) —the Independents should use
his talents in the front of the house —*
Drunken Moll (Joyce Smith), a pair of con-
victs (H. L. Badham and Arthur Lane),
and a fisherman and a toy-vendor (both
played by Hal Henshaw). Don Finley fur-,
nished the backcloth. The spectacle la ffed
a little less than half an hour.
C. K. Munro’s “At Mrs. Beams’,” which
followed, had been done before in Sydney—
two years ago at the Turret Theatre. It is
a laughable, well-made comedy, Racked with
neatly-drawn characters and effective cur-
tains. Except that the intervals were in-
ordinately long the play was well produced.
Gertrude Johns ably sustained the role of the
talkative Miss Shoe. Clarence Murphy,
as Dermott, repeated the success lie
achieved at the Turret. Doris Fitton,
as his partner, handled her more tempes-
tuous passages better than the more
subdued ones. Carolyn Forsythe, who seldom
fails to give a delightful performance, was
highly amusing as Mrs. Bebb, and so was
Kitty Horne as an ancient with an ear-
trumpet. Garry Byrne looked and talked the
nart of Mrs. Durrows to the life. Sibyl
Barncastle made Mrs. Stone, the pretty
grass-widow, convincing, and Sylvia Lance
Thomson, as Mrs. Beams, might have walked
out of a Darlinghurst residential. John
Wyndham, who was the callow youth in-
fatuated with the exotic Laura, showed con-
siderable skill.
# * *
The third annual one-act play tourna-
ment organised by the Sydney Community
Playhouse (now called the Australian Play
Society) is well under way at iEolian Hall.
Up to the end of last week eight of the
twenty-two plays listed for production had
been staged. Mrs. Thorburn Suttee’s
“Matilda’s Mistake” dealt lightly with a
matron who discovered that she had pur-
chased by mistake a crate of dinner-sets in-
stead of the sole set she wanted. Hope
Suttor’s “David and Truth” is a small piece
that begins to brighten up when David learns
that his beloved has played a trick upon him.
“Gorona’s” “The Raid” is a sentimental
tabloid wherein a wounded Maoriland soldier
meets a Red Cross nurse and finds out that
she is the grand-daugliter of a woman who
had at one time been a secret lover of his
grandfather. Marguerite R. Shirlaw’s “22
Rowe-street” started promisingly .as . a
comedy—the scene was laid in a matrimonial
agency—and ended like a trashy novelette.
John P. O’Callaghan’s “Nemesis” was in the
Grand Guignol manner. A scientist, jealous
of an army major, plans to poison him.
In the carrying out of the deed he falls dead
beside the defunct major. “Callboy’s” “Three
Peer in a Window” was also in a grim vein.
A mother is killed by her son, who to cover up
his misdeed also slays a magistrate who, as
a matter of fact, does not suspect him. T.
S. Gurr’s “Hypocrites” introduces a rascally
business man and his wife, who has been
carrying on with an outsider. How she extri-
cates herself from a tight corner is cleverly
told. Arthur W. Dibley’s “The Slender
Threshold” is an excursion into romantic
tragedy. The tournament, which will be con-
tinued this evening and next. Wednesday
evening, is under the direction of Carrie
Tennant, and the judging committee com-
prises Dr. George Mackaness, Dr. W. R.
Firtli, John Gould, Miss Gladys Marks and
Mrs. W. Bell Allan.
* * *
This Showman hands it to Noel Coward,
as the Hottentots say. For the first half-
hour of “Bitter Sweet,” at Melb. Royal, he
(the Showman) was vaguely conscious that
he missed something. After another half-
hour he discovered what it was. Nobody
had yet said, “How can I get rid of my
liver?” and nobody had answered, “Give it
to the cat.” Nobody had told the story
“MASQUE OF OLD SYDNEY,” AT SYDNEY SAVOY.
about the girl who wouldn’t go to the country
for the holidays because of the bareback
riders there, or of the spinster who left the
table because they served the salad all un-
dressed. The Showman looked anxiously
at his watch. Another half-hour had slipped
into the abysm of time and no wife had yet
said, “Good-night, father of three,” and no
husband had replied, “Good-night, mother of
one.” In short, the funny man hadn’t
appeared. Perhaps there wasn’t going to be
a funny man. Two hour’s went by, eleven
o’clock struck, the final curtain came down.
Only too true. There was no funny man.
Mr. Coward wrote the play, composed the
music (without bothering old Wagner with
acknowledgments) and designed the costumes
of “Bitter Sweet,” and he forgot only one
thing. He omitted to put any new ideas in
it. This isn’t an omission the average
playgoer worries about if sketches are short
and bright. But whilq the good old vaude-
ville turn in which an old lady laments her
vanished youth, and sings about it, while the
scene slips back 50 years or so is first-rate
entertainment for 20 minutes, it has to be
extraordinarily well done to fill out an even-
ing. However, this is an operetta, and per-
haps it is the mission of an operetta to be
dull. A character in the second act is
effectually prevented from singing more of
Mr. Coward’s lyrics, set to his pseudo-Wag-
nerian music, by being murdered. Otherwise
there is a lack of sensational incidents. The
action is mainly of the peripatetic variety,
It-begins in 1932 in Grosvenor-square, where
Margery Ilicklin, as the Marchioness, of
Shayne, registers a tuneful protest against
modern jazz. Then it shifts to Belgrave-
square, 1875; then to Herr Schick’s cafe in
Vienna, 1880; then back to London, 1895;
and finally to Grosvenor-square, 1932, again,
The Marchioness’s objections to jazz are dis-
regarded and the curtain comes down to the
tune of a modern foxtrot. Most of the
honors of the evening go to Miss Hicklin.
who effectively presents the sentimental
Marchioness and the same lady grown young
again. Some of them also go to the local
Saffo Arnav, as a cafe dancer with a vigorous
voice and a dramatic style of acting. Her-
bert Browne is too .solemn as the musician
who bolts with the Marchioness and has a
sword run through Him- by Sydney Bur-
chall. but he is not a bit more solemn than
Mr. Coward, who is deadly, serious about his
operetta and has dressed it more elaborately
than any. musical comedy seen* in Australia
'for a long time. There are .beautiful ladies
inside the beautiful costumes of a period
when milliners used enodgh material on a
single female body to clothe all the flappeis
in a modern factory. The . thin thread ot
romance which runs through the elaborate
confection mav save a piece which delighted
London for three years, but which seems
a trifle too slow in tempo for this country.
“Anne 100 Per Cent.,” with which Nellie
Bramley has started her new career at Melb.
Comedy, is the story of an American mil-
lionaire soap manufacturer’s daughter
(Nellie), who finds that her dear dead daddy’s
business is being ruined by a rascally rival
soapmaker (Austen Milroy) so that he can
buy it for a pittance. She moves in, sacks
the superintendent (William Ralston), who
is in with the plotters, engages a new super-
intendent (William Raymond), falls in love
with him, engages an advertising manager
with vision (Victor Knight), lands a big
contract which Will put tlie business on its
feet again and. is having a passionate love
affair with William Raymond at midnight
when .the enemy blows up the factory. Un-
deterred, the indomitable Nellie; gathers up
the fragments and emerges triumphant with
her superintendent-lover. No doubt this sort
of thing used to happen in the good old
days of big business, but since Miss Bram-
ley’s last visit to Melbourne the State has ex-
perienced the worst depression in its his-
tory and these are the days, of small business.
Consequently “Anne 100 Per Cent.” appears
as quaintly old-fashioned as a balanced bud-
get. Nevertheless, it is a highly, entertain-
ing bromide, especially as Nellie is still the
excellent comedienne she always was, rattl-
ing off her lines like a well-oiled machine-
gun and never letting the interest flag for
a moment; and her f.a.q. company succeeds
for the most part in keeping pace with her.
* * *
With the assistance of Josephine Trix,
Harry Kelso. Eddie Fields and others, Ernest
Rolls is. making “Laughing Eyes” at holi-
day audiences at Melb. Palace. The new
opus (No. 8) follows the usual lines, plus
some pantomime items thrown in for the
benefit of the largely juvenile audiences. Mr.
Rolls is hereby congratulated for his “Soviet
Sorcery,” in which some Bolshevik bush-
rangers hold up the mail (a sledge) and
seize a bottle of vodka which turns out to
be a bomb. Included in the sketch is some
excellent dancing, of the variety known as
Russian,
¥ ¥ ¥
Milton and Adams, from the wilds of
Westralia, have been giving Melb. Bijou
patrons “The Love Pill,” washing it down
with song, stylish stepping and bedroom slap-
stick. The new company, which includes
Charles Sherman, Les Adams, and sundry
ladies with over-painted faces and under-
developed voices, just puts it over, though
the personality of Lulla Fanning should help
to swell the traffic at - the box-office.
*Tt_ pk Pnlpffo
*
W. Lister Lister, who shows 20 oils and
half a hundred water-colors at Hordern’s
gallery (Sydney) has achieved a scrumptious
sea and a fine impression of distance in his
biggest, canvas. The Sydney Harbor Bridge,
which is the principal point of interest in a
capitally balanced composition. doesn’t
lend itself to impressionism, but Mr. Lister
manages to convey it passably enough with
some apparently careless lines. Another
accessful essay is “Old Cremorne, Mosman
Ihe general weakness of the Lister
andscapes, both oil and water-color, is the
eas > A ■ f°^ ia § e °f which hardly ever sug-
texture °f masses of leaves. Best
ot the water-colors is “The Path Round the
Harbor, and there is also beauty in “Sydney
Harbor from Athol.”
Good Christians received a shock when
they stood in front of one of the pictures
sent by the French to the exhibition of
trench art in London. It was an Annuncia-
tion painted in the Middle Ages. The angel
r.? wings of an owla ray of celestial
light tails on a monkey at a reading-desk
before reaching Mary; the Father and the
angel have the thumb advanced between the
third and middle fingers, in the gesture
anopted by the Devil when blessing a
' ’ itches Sabbath, and there is a decoration
composed of the. deadly herbs used by the
witches m their incantations. Archaeologists
say that it is a typical example of the
jokes perpetrated by mediaeval artists, such
as the portraits of eminent persons inter-
polated into Gothic sculpture.
The opening winter show at S. A. Society
ot Arts Gallery is by Gladys Good; one of
those pretty and pretty-good' displays that
banie a critic, who could wish that, being
so good, they were just a bit better. This
one has two unusual features. It illustrates
a recent world-tour—voyage, ports of call,
rural England, Europe. And the painter has
the pluck to fill one wall with her own
artistic photographs of similar scenes.
Among the first shy debutantes of Mel-
bourne art shows is Clarice Beckett’s at the
Meldrum Galleries. There is less an obvious
jump in her performance than a steady pro-
gression in subtlety of vision. Miss Beckett
is .content with portraying the small sub-
division of Nature —something that doesn’t
require a tour of inspection but can be
grasped in a single glance and described in
a few rapid brush strokes. Forms are not
defined as. things in themselves, but in broad
relationship to their surroundings. There
is sometimes difficulty in deciding whether
a patch of color is a bather, but there is
never any difficulty in deciding the general
character of a scene—a misty morning, sun-
shine dimmed with bush-fire smoke or figures
seen through a pale evening drizzle.
Arthur Streeton, in his show at Melbourne
Fine Arts, gets near to revealing a general
truth in “Romance in Blue and Gold,” in
which the figures resting on a cliff in the
foreground, the deep blue sea and the dis-
tant coastline are brought into more than a
conventional harmony, and nothing is taken
so far as to be unnecessarily obvious. There
is rich color, too, in “The Garden Screen,”
which is a refreshing change from the usual
still-life, since the flowers are growing. A
couple of illustrations for the Rubaiyat by
Mrs. Streeton are no worse than the many
other attempts that have been made to im-
prove on Fitzgerald’s poetry.
“Cauboy” : It doesn’t say much for Aus-
tralian producers that one-time Bulletin
contributor Harrison Owen has had a second
play highly praised in London, while his
previous comedy “The Happy Husband,”
which scored well in both N’York and the
Old Smoke, has not yet reached this country.
His latest, “Doctor Pygmalion,” is described
as “brilliant.” Sir Gerald du Maurier,
Gladys Cooper and Ronald Squire were leads.
“Craiser” : Melburnian Percy Gi'ainger has
landed the job of musical director of the
New York University College of Fine Arts.
It is a tribute to enterprise and a foster-
ing mother’s care and ambition. Grainger
has always acknowledged the fact. Mrs.
Grainger is said to have remarked that if
her son had not come up to expectations
she would have mothered the talent of Cyril
Scott, or some other promising composer.
Grainger’s last visit to his native city set
a new standard in conducting in its purely
physical aspects. Nobody threw himself
about with such abandon before he came, but
now all are doing it. Delight in exercise
for its own sake is as characteristic of
the man as of his music. When he was
in South Australia in 1924, he humped a
bluey 80 miles in the Mount Gambier dis-
trict to visit relatives.
. “L. de R.”: The list of grand-opera selec-
tions makes melancholy reading. “Trov..”
“Rig.,” “Trav.,” “Aida,” “Carmen,” “Faust,”
“Cav. Rusticana,” “Butterfly,” “Pag.,”
“Bolffime,” “Tosca,” “Andrea Chenier,”
“Manon,” “The Barber” and “Lucia”—what
a hackneyed collection! The gramophone,
the pianola, the talkies, . the wireless and
innumerable local orchestras have rubbed the
nap off most of them. The managerial argu-
ment will be, of course, that they are sure
box-office attractions, but if the canned
musical instrument has made the multitude
familiar with them, it has also made music-
lovers aware that there are other operas as
good or better awaiting an Australian pre-
miere. The only comparative novelties in
the schedule are “The Valkyrie,” which has
not been done for some time, and “L’Amore
De Tre Re,” which was the only first pro-
duction in 1928. except “Turandot.” The
Firm evidently doesn’t believe in educating
us too quickly.
' “Cauboy”: The only names in the list of
grand-opera selections that are familiar to
Australians are those of that accomplished
actor and robust baritone Apollo Granforte
and Emilio Rossi, who was assistant con-
ductor to Bavignoli in 1928. Rossi earned
bis inclusion by a fine effort he put up in
Melbourne when Bavignoli threw down the
baton ■in the middle of the rehearsals for
“L’Amore De Tre Re,” declaring in sul-
phurous language that the new piece was
unproducable in the time allotted. Rossi
seized liis chief’s staff and went on with the
preparations, and the production was declared
by critics and audiences alike as the fine
flower and crown of a remarkable season.
Where the new team will be at a disad-
vantage, at least as far as the box-office goes,
is in the total absence of Australians, a
lack that it is not too late to remedy. Amy
Castles is a trained hand, with a European
if somewhat suspended reputation; and it
would be interesting to see how Gladys Mon-
crieff would shape in gr’opera. The pres-
ence of Geelongite John Brownlee in the
1928 team was not only a grand advt. for
the Firm’s patriotism but a tribute to its
musical judgment.


BATTERY BUYERS
WANT FACTS
and here thejj are/
TN every test of dry-cell batteries conducted by
■ independent experts, New Diamonds have been
proved superior to all other makes.
They have given longer effective discharge—quicker
and more complete recuperation—and better service
under all conditions.
That is why it coats less per radio hour to operate
your set with New Diamond Batteries.
4 points of NEW DIAMOND superiority
1— EXCLUSIVE CONTAINER PROTECTION.
—Battery cannot be tampered with or mis-
used before purchase—because of patent
sealed container lid.
2 RAPID RECUPERATION—the reason for
their extra months of effective working life.
3 CONSERVATION OF CURRENT.—No
leakage of current is possible, because of the
unique method of cell insulation.
4 COMPREHENSIVE GUARANTEE.—There
is a written guarantee of quality enclosed
with every batten’.
New Diamond Batteries —for radio, torch cases, and every electrical purpose—
are sold by every Dealer throughout the Commonwealth.
Direct Factory Representatives:—
HENDON ELECTRICAL* CO., N.S.W. Representatives:
“Whitehall,” Bank Place, Melbourne, Cl. REG ROSE & CO., Sydney, N.S.W,
And distributors in every State.
Hem
ib-batteries
MORE POWER LESS COST
Legal Notices. __
IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACTS
1863 TO 1913.
And in the matter of the Primary Producers Bank
of Australia Limited in Voluntary Liquidation
under the Supervision of the Supreme Court of
Queensland.
Dividend of 5/- in the £.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a first. dividend
of Five Shillings in the Pound on claims of Creditors
is intended to be declared in the above matter on
the thirtieth day of May 1932. All persons whose
debts or claims against the Company have not been
admitted or proved before that date will be excluded
from the benefits of such dividend.
Dated this first day of April, 1932.
ROBERT HAROLD CUMMING,
RALPH BARNES FORD,
Joint Liquidators,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
JN THE ESTATE OF CATHERINE MARY DOWN
late of Adelaide South Australia deceased.
WILL ANY PERSON having information of the
present whereabouts or decease of BRIAN
O’LOGIILIN sometimes known as Ben O’Loghlin
last heard of by relatives in South Australia in 1898
formerly a drover in New South Wales Queensland
and South Australia now if living of the age of
72 years, son of Cornelius O’Loghlin late of County
Clare Southern Ireland deceased and brother of
the abovenamed Catherine Mary Down or any person
having information of the present whereabouts or
decease of a wife or children of the said Bryan
O’Loghlin KINDLY COMMUNICATE with the under-
signed.
A person answering the above description was said
to have been recently in the Jerilderie district of
New South Wales and to have been travelling towards
Echuca and South Australian Territory.
ELDER’S TRUSTEE AND EXECUTOR COMPANY,
LIMITED, Currie Street, Adelaide.
X
Tia&i/ies'&cZ&ri&e,
*s<turz£ SictlcJ, Stupe
$■ S&teen ?ur&<i, /fa&e<s f&t
tAc &\rC%L<i.
TheAUSTRALASIAN
JDN SALE ALL STATES &S
N HI " +
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
“The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from “The Bulletin” Office,
all States.
£5O Deposit ! Balance over Two Crops
ORDER NOW!
These terms cannot last long.
THIS remarkable offer is made .to you
by Ford Motor Company of Australia
Pty. Limited. You are now able to
obtain the improved, all-British Fordson
Tractor for £5O deposit, with the balance,
including freight, payable over your next
two crops. Only 5J% per annum hiring
charge will be made on the outstanding
balance.
This opportunity is provided as a help and
inducement to farmers who need a Fordson
Tractor and have not been able to buy.
The new terms make it possible for practi-
cally every farmer to secure an all-
British Fordson, which stands alone for
quality, ad up tabi lity, economy and low price.
The offer is made for a limited period
only. Therefore, book your order now if
you wish to obtain a Fordson under con-
ditions never offered before and not likely
to be offered again.
These remarkable terms have been made
possible by arrangement between Ford
Motor Company of Australia Pty. Limited
and the Traders Finance Corporation
Limited. Take advantage of them without
delay. Get in touch with your nearest
Ford dealer immediately. The cash price
of the Fordson Tractor is £220, f.o.b*
nearest Ford works; Sales Tax Extra*
So, secure your
FORDSON TRACTOR
without delay.
F.N.18
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
SHADOW SHOWS.
The premiere of Thring’s “The Sentimen-
tal Bloke,” at Hoyt’s De Luxe, Melbourne,,
was surveyed by packed and appreciative
audiences, day and evening The him taiiois
have made the Bloke’s clobber fit him better,
dramatically speaking, since the private
screening at the' Plaza. Show is prefaced by
some new shorts. Eight feminine violinists
come out from the enormously exaggerated
skirts of a ninth and discourse music which
the vochl mechanics reproduce with perfect
fidelity. The Melbourne Chinese orchestra
and a survey of tlie flora and fauna of the
Great Barrier Beef, by Noel Monkton, are
two other items, both, in their way, equally
Australian. George (Wallace, whose musi-
cal comedy is at present being put into him
shape at Thring’s studios, gives a, brief taste
of his quality, which is full of promise.
Thdre is also a jazz band conducted by a
gent, who bears a striking resemblance to
the Ormond Professor of Music—physically,'
not musically.
* * *
The reception of Thring’s screen version
of “The Sentimental Bloke” at Mclb. Hoyt’s,
which has been holding seven sessions a
day, has surprised even the producers, though
the reason is not far to seek. The film is
by no means a dramatic masterpiece, but it
talks to its audiences in a familiar tongue.
The characters appear against backgrounds
equally familiar to all. The wit is not con-
spicuously acute, yet when Ginger Mick ex-
plains to a housewife that his rabbits have
gone up tuppence on account of the tariff
the house is duly convulsed. A similar jest
would pass unnoticed at the Tivoli, because
there audiences are used to local comedians
adorning their tale with Australian themes.
But it is an entirely novel experience for
the H'ollywood-fed patrons of the screen.
When the 'novelty wears off Thring’s talkies
will begin to be judged more on their merits
and less as a welcome antidote to overmuch
Americanese.
* * *
“Ladies of the Big House” (Paramount).
Sydney Regent’s chief attraction, suffers
from its resemblances to previous gaol talkies.
The death house, the finger-printing ritual,
the gaol yard, corridors and all the rest have-
lost their novelty. Anyhow, it isn’t a good
picture. Sylvia Sidney and her husband,
Gene Raymond, are framed by a gangster
for a murder which the gangster committed
himself. The gangster (Earle Fox) objected
to the lady stepping out with Gene, and
this was his revenge. Husband and wife are
put in the same prison, and spend a. lot of
time agonising in each other’s arms. When
not so employed they agonise solo, roaming
all over the gaol to give the photographer a
show. The riot in “The Big House” was
hard to swallow, but the heroine’s escape by
swimming in this show is harder still. She
has to escape in order to reach the District
Attorney and explain who did the murder,
and why. Miss Sidney has a frail and
sensuous Mongolian beauty which' helps her
to carry off wronged-girl parts; young
women who look like her ustially strike
disaster. But she is a one-track actress, and
she is too much in evidence. The miseries
of Gene Raymond occupy a lot of super-
fluous time, too. There are moments _ when
the spectator finds himself hopefully imagi-
ning the unimaginable; namely, that they
will hang the blameless lad, flaxen top-khot
and all, and be done with it. The small
parts-—gangsters, women convicts and law-
yers—are well acted, and the prison shots
look real.
“This Reckless Age,” the other Regent
feature, is a much better job. It is a slice
out of the life of an American one-servant
family. Nothing happens beyond a rather
futile attempt to blackmail Richard Bennett,
the lugubrious father of Charles Rogers and
Francis Dee. But you get one or two new
insights into the way of an American young-
ster with a parent, and into the reactions
of the elderly to treatment which would
lead to a charge of offensive behavior, or
worse, if meted out to, say, Inspector
Mackay, of Sydney. One bright young uni-
versity product, in a coonskin coat and smrw-
boots, has his feet on the family sofa a
couple of minutes after his introduction to
the owners. The dialogue is clever, the
stars don’t over-assert themselves, and the
interest doesn’t slacken right up to the
moment when it is revealed ; that the way-
ward Francis and that fine actor Charles
Ruggles—the butt of the family, but a regu-
lar guy for all that —are to be married. The
Regent also has some first-class newsreels
and musical items.
¥ ¥ *
“White Shoulders” (R.K.0.), at Sydney
Ilaymarket, is a celluloid potboiler. Gor-
don Kent (Jack Holt), having accumulated
20 million dollars mining in South America,
sets out to have a gay time and buy a wife.
He meets Norma Selbee (Mary Astor) at
a party he gives. Norma is an unemployed
chorus-girl, starving, though she dresses like
a mannequin. Kent marries her out of
hand, takes her abroad and showers her
with jewels. But she is unhappy, for she
does not Love her Husband. At Biarritz
she meets Laurence Marchmont (Ricardo
Cortez) and does a bunk with him to another
town. Kent discovers that Marchmont is a
confidence man who specialises in swindles
on women, and that Norma has committed
bigamy. He informs the pair of each other’s
records and tells them that as long as they
live together he will not put the police on
their tracks, but should they attempt to
separate he will give them away. Detectives
shadow them wherever they go. Marchmont
tries to steal Norma’s jewels, but she can-
not do another bunk for fear of being lum-
bered. Finally Marchmont shoots Norma’s
first husband and is arrested for murder, and
Norma falls into her s.econ'd husband’s arms.
Moral seems to be that baby should stick
to the daddy who has the most sugar.
Penrod and Sam” (First National), based
on larkington’s essay in boyology, occupies
the other half of the Haymarket bill. Bar-
ring a sentimental interlude wherein all
are plunged into deep grief over
the death of a dog, the film is merry and
bright. Leon Janney plays the part of
1 enrod, but is overshadowed by the quieter
and more effective acting of Junior Coghlan
as -iY I, Zasu Pitts enlivens the picture
with her presence, and Matt Moore is the
mischievous Penrod’s papa.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872
Directors— James Love, Esq (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. :
¥. E. Lorton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
r"V nd r divers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Head Office,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and tor cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
iWonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Ku 99
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 181 T.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital £8.780,000
Reserve Fund 6,150,000
Reserve Liability 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
ranches and Agencies in the Australian Stales, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ABORIGINALTIES
THE COOKING LESSON.
“Here’s a ticket fer th' conjurin’ show, Maggie!”
“That’s vera kind of ye, Donald, lad!”
“Ay — an’ when he comes to that trick where he takes a teaspoon
o’ flour an’ one egg, an’ makes twenty oam'lettes, watch
vera closely!”
“O. W. Waireki”: H'enare limped into
the garage after the ancient motor-car in
which he was having a trial spin had gone
over a 30ft. embankment, its brakes having
failed. “You werry near terra me te truth,”
he informed the agent. “You say, ‘You pc
getting t’at car for a song, Henare’; an’, py
Chove, if I never make te smart jump t’at
song pe going strong now. Wit’ te harp.”
“Gumblcgubbin” : A city man
recently started a poultry farm
a little way out of Sydney with
two _ ducks and eight roosters.
He intended to breed up from
these by setting all the eggs he
got. Which recalls “Pearson's
wethers.” Shortly after his
Australian advent, this gentle-
man, known as Professor Pear-
son, started sheep-farming with
a flock of wethers, and was
greatly concerned when they
didn’t increase in due season.
He spoke to a neighboring pas-
toralist about it, and had the
breeding peculiarities of sheep
explained to him. When he
later figured in politics he was
frequently bantered over his
breeding wethers.
* * :|:
“Waranbini”: The climbing
fish of Queensland coastal
waters is often referred to as a
real instance of “a fish out of
water.” But the climber does
not entirely cut off connection
With its watery base. With its
fins and scales, it can climb on
to a branch or up the stem of
a mangrove, and bask there as
long as it likes, admiring the
scenery of the strauge dry world,
provided its tail remains im-
mersed in its native element. At
such times the tail does the
work of the gills. Without tin?
immersion the climber would
suffer the same fate as any other
fish that got out of its natural
home. A better example of “a
fish out of water” is the eel
That slithery rover can travel
a considerable distance over-
land, provided there is enough
moisture in the grass and on
the ground to keep its skin
wet. The tortoise, or fresh-
water turtle, can travel miles
over dry land, and is often met
“on the track.” If that amphi-
bian can be called a fish, it takes
the belt.
-T- ij:
Ivooragai : The sudden appearance of
plagues of mice from no discoverable place,
and their equally sudden disappearance, have
always been something of a mystery At
pi'esent the rodents are plaguing parts of
three States simul-
t a n e o usly, the
swarms in S.A.
being joined by
thousands of i*ats,
which are killing
large numbers of
fowls and pigeons.
At Den iliquin
(N.S.W.) the mice
have swarmed into
houses, eating the
paper from the
walls. These
plagues occur only
at intervals of sev-
eral years, and dur-
ing the brief period
of destruction the
bush becomes alive
with the pes t.
Thirty years ago a
vast army descended
on the south-west
Queensland
border towns, and
it was estimated
that a million were
killed in Hunger-
ford alone. A store-
keeper captured a
thousand while un-
loading a waggon,
and later the same
evening killed an-
other _ thousand.
There is nothing
unusual about a
plague in grain
areas, but there
are no farms about
Hungerford, an d
the country is dry.
The visitation re-
vived memories of
the great rat inva-
sion of Queensland
in ISBG-87, when
yarns’ of swagmen
being chased up
trees, and of hav-
ing their boots eaten
off while enjov-
nig a siesta, went the rounds. Those rats
appeared first on the northern coast whence
they travelled about 200 miles inland ; they
then disappeared so quickly and unanimously
that it was supposed that they had eaten
one another.
* * * *
, ’ : Farmers in New England
(.N.fe.W.) are perturbed at the newest pest
NOT A MINUTE TO WASTE.
HAM (on Ark—to Noah): “We’ve touched ground, dad; we’re on Mount Ararat.
There’s our dove, perched on the signpost.”
NOAH (to family): “Then hurry up, hoys, and get her moored. It’s nearly six!”
to attack their potatoes. Iteally it is an old
pest at a new game. The white ant has
discovered that spuds are edible, and con-
signments shipped to Q’land have been com-
pletely ruined in four days. There’s no
precedent for such a calamity, and there
doesn’t seem to be any remedy.
=l=
“Groper” : I am puzzled about something.
Captain Stirling at the end of 182!) put
his signature to a return which showed that
the Swan River Settlement then possessed
204 cattle, 57 horses, 1096 sheep and 103
hogs. Now, what’s biting me is, how he cams
to overlook the camel. It was there all right.
Sydney newspapers have been publishing-
whisky ads. showing “Perth 103 Years Ago,”
and right in the middle of the street is the
camel. Why did Stirling conceal it?
* * * *
“Mack”: An Australian George Stephen-
son landed on Thursday Island the other day
with a steam-engine under him arm which
lie proceeded to demonstrate to an interested
group ; part of it was made from an oil-drum,
but the fittings were all carefully adjusted,
and the accuracy of the machine surprised
the engineers who inspected it. The designer
and builder was a half-caste lad from Grooto
Eylandt, over to the western side of the Gulf
of Carpentaria, where he had been on a
mission station; his age is somewhere about
14. He is now with an engineering company
in T.I.
“Tiki”: A properly constructed Maori tapu
lasts for ever. This fact is well known to
natives of the older generation, but pakehas
don’t pay much attention to it until a tapu
rises; up and hits them, so to speak. In the
’sixties there arose a great warrior chief. To
Kooti, who was also a bit of a tohunga. Left
to himself, without pakeha interference, he
might have had a Napoleonic career like
Te Rauparaha, but his raiding and murder-
ing were checked by the English, who ban-
ished him and many of his followers to the
Chathams and kept them there under a
guard of three soldiers. But Te Kooti was
cunning and resourceful. .Tust before the
time came for the arrival of a schooner that
periodically brought provisions ho pounced
on the soldiers and tied them up. Then he
and his mates went out, rounded up the
few white settlers, and tied them up. When
the schooner arrived Te Kooti and co. cap-
tured it and made the skipper take him and
his followers back to M.L. But before
they did this Te Kooti paid a visit to
another schooner that chanced to be in the
bay. He didn’t want that schooner chasing
after him. so he went and slipped its anchor,
at the same time' declaring it tapu. Where-
upon the schooner driftecT ashore and was
dashed to pieces by the waves. Her remains
can still be seen. Just a week or two ago
that old anchor that Te Kooti slipped was
brought up fouled in the anchor of a steamer.
But that anchor, belonging to a schooner
that was tapu, was also tapu , and should
not have been touched. Mark what hap-
pened : When the crew of the steamer were
putting the old anchor in a boat, its rusty
old stock came off and fell on the head of
the second engineer, who was directing the
impious operations. It nearly killed him.
* * * *
“Macduff” : The long arm and long mem-
ory of the white man’s law had its parallel
in Binghi’s judicial arrangements. In the
’fifties Paddy Whitelock, a young black of
the Manning River tribe, when on a visit to
the Macleay River, married a gin of the
Macleay tribe. Not long, afterwards, con-
vinced that she was unfaithful, he killed her
—and slipped back to his own tribe. For
30 years Paddy could never be induced by
his employer, Sandy MeDonell, one of the
cattlemen of the N.C., to revisit the Macleay
when there was a mob to be driven over or
back. At last, in the ’eighties, to the sur-
prise of the boss, Paddy consented to accom-
pany him there. The first morning after
arrival at Kempsey Paddy was missing, and
the boss had to get another man to take his
place. When MeDonell arrived back on the
Manning almost the first man to meet and
welcome him was Paddy. Asked to explain,
Paddy said that within a few hours of their
arrival on the Macleay he was tipped off
by a friendly abo. that his defunct wife’s
father, brothers, uncles, etc. knew of his
presence, and were about to execute long-
delayed justice. So Paddy did the prudent
thing and started for home. But not by the
shortest road—that was probably guarded,
he reasoned. He made top speed up river,
and when well up among the mountains re-
moved his boots and threw them in the scrub,
travelling thenceforth in the stony bed. He
took the route up Ounderang Creek, dropping
into the head waters of the Hastings and
then into those of the Manning River, which
he followed down home. The day following his
return he was interviewed by five Macleay
blacks, who returned him his boots. They
told him they had been just a little too far
behind him all the way to offer him the medi-
cine they had prepared for him. He was
now out of their jurisdiction, but if he ever
came within it again tribal justice would not
fail to be executed. Paddy never took a
second chance.
BALLADE OF PLATYPUSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A Sydney newspaper notes that the platypus
flourishes* from tropical creeks near Cairns to up-
land lakes at Kosciusko and in Tasmania, frozen
over in winter. Does this curious compound of
animal and bird, it asks, hibernate when the sur-
roundings demand it?”
Beast, bird, or what the blithering blue
Blazes you are in creature kind,
You’re always bringing problems new
To my already burdened mind.
And here’s another nut to grind,
Whereto the answer I await.
What verdict does The Council find?
Do platypuses hibernate?
Most things these-freaks appear to do
Beyond the faculties assigned
To things in fur, and feathers, too.
With bills in front and tails behind.
But this I’m somewhat disinclined
To add to the elaborate
Perversities around them twined.
Do platypuses hibernate?
I never cared about the ’roo,
Or how li'is mother was confined,
When bushmen with intense ado
Each other’s theories undermined.
But this intrigues the undersigned,
Who tires of academic prate,
The simple query, underlined:
Do platypuses hibernate?
Prince —Burrell, rather—tell me true,
Give me the answer plain and straight
In confidence, and entre nous,
Do platypuses hibernate?
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


Pref. Shareholders
and Their Rights.
This is among the
many subjects of vital
interest to investors
discussed in the April
issue of
“THE 'WILD CAT' MONTHLY’’
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY 2/•
PER ANNUM 22/6.
Prom Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
w
e
è
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., £in. and sin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 2/9 each, post free.
Uhe PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case—
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
■—Sin. and Jin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,600,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
“C. Coral” : An Act has just been passed
making it illegal to collect trochus-shell
under 2i inches in diameter. “Yes,” said
Jimmy Susu mournfully, “he got some new
law now belong trochus-shell. Them Guv'-
ment he been send every island small piece
iron with handle, for measure that shell;
'spose he too small, you must chuck him
back along salt water again, or they make
fine five pounds along you. ITim been speak,
he say some white man he been take glass
and look along that trochus for see how
THE WRONG CLASS.
EXHIBITOR: “ ’Ow dedden' you give my cow a prize?”
JUDGE (who has had a few ): “What class did you put she in?”
EXHIBITOR: “’Olstein, av coorse!”
JUDGE: “Thash where you went wrong; she’s — hie — wyandotte.”
long ho take for make breed, and that white
man he finder-out plenty things. We got lot
trouble now for measure that stuff—you got
bring that shell to boat and put that iron
along every one, and might you chuck away
half. But when you chuck away, you don’t
stop along same place where you been find
that shell —might you been bring that shell
in dinghy from long way, and bottom of sea
come different, where you stop, he no got
good ground for trochus. That trochus he
fall down when you chuck away, and ’spose
he don’t fall down straight, them other fish
come and kai-kai him. We see plenty time
— me, I been look along my own eye too—
them snapper and other fish he like kai-kai
trochus-meat too much. ’Spose you can put
that trochus back along same place and make
him stand straight, no upside down, then he
all right; but this way I think plenty trochus
lie dead when you chuck away, then he no
good for nothing, he can’t grow more big
like that white man say. ’Spose you got
garden for keep them young one and make
iiim grow, might that good ; but this way, 1
think we lose time finding trochus for
tucker for them other fish !”
Hi * *
“Bihai”: “Amburagi” (B. 16/3/’32) in
his reference to the Kuku-kukus of Papua
has overlooked a few interesting facts. The
first batch of three was captured on the
Olipai Heights and sent to Port Moresby
to be civilised. They were quartered with
the native police, and, messing with them,
learnt to eat rice, biscuits and bulamakau,
and to smoke —a hitherto unknown luxury
—as well as picking up a smattering of
police Motu. Two died of nostalgia, and,
fearing the survivor might go the same way,
the Government sent, him to the R.M. at
Nepa to be returned to his village. The
R.M. was jubilant. With this man to tell
his pals that a Government patrol was a
friendly party, and not a moving target,
there would be no more flights of arrows to
dodge when traversing the Olipai River
territory. But he was too optimistic; the
youth', told to hail his village, had com-
pletely forgotten his own language! How-
ever, recognising the returned exile, several
Ivuku-kukus came down, greeted him with
no particular enthusiasm, but helped carry
his goodwill presents back to the village.
Three months later, when the patrol re-
turned, the youth came to see them, but
was as wild and suspicious as when first
caught, refusing to take any tobacco or kai-
kai. Apparently he had forgotten how to
speak Motu. Kuku-kuku, by the way, is
a name given to these semi-nomads by the
coastal people, and simply means “bushmen”
—a good name. With their stubby bows,
ideal for use in the tangled jungle-scrub
they inhabit, they can send the tiny, plain
shafts double the distance attained by the
terrible, barbed arrows sped by the six-foot
weapons of the Western bowmen. Both
wearing scanty grass kilts, the sexes arc l
almost undistinguishable to the uninitiated.
One particularly queer thing about these
weird people is that they have no fear of
demons. As everyone knows, vata-vatas
abound in the bush, at night, and an average
Papuan would turn pale (or as pale as he
could) with fear at the idea of nigh't-ramb-
ling. Not so the Kuku-knkus. With bamboo
torches or resinous gum they wander
through the darkest jungle, and midnight
raiding on the timorous coastal folks used
to be their pet diversion. They have -some
of the finer feelings. A Karama woman who
THINGS THAT ARE THE SAME THING ARE DIFFERENT.
SOAP-BOX ORATOR: “When yer see the way the goods are exposed to tempt people,
y’ can’t blame the shoplifters. They can’t help themselves.”
THE LOGICIAN : "Cripes, can’t they! That’s just what they get pinched far ."
was kidnapped lived with them for many
years, bearing two sons to her captor. On
reaching manhood these lads took their
mother ag closely as they dared to her old
home, pointed out the track and bade her
be gone. “But, my sons, my own people are
probably dead,” she protested. “I would
rather stay with you.” “Please yourself,
mother,” they replied. “But you are getting
old and useless. If you wish to remain, you
can, of course, but in that case we shall be
obliged to kill you; still. .. .please yourself.”
“But mind you,” the old dame said, when
she had staggered to Karama and was tell-
ing her tale, “beyond trifling things like
that, my sons were really good boys.”
* ;S * ;|;
(<T , „ . „ „ _ „ . ' „ .
Ex-Cavalryman’; “Kell B.” is talking
through his spurs when he says (B.
36/3/’32) that the most comfortable
and businesslike way of riding is
not with the feet well home in the
stirrups. I know that there is a
prevalent idea in Australia that
British cavalrymen cannot ride, so
it is with trepidation I mention
the fact that in British mounted
regiments, except on ceremonial
parades, orders are for the feet to
be thrust “well home” in the stir-
rups, I hasten to add that polo-
players and hunting-men generally
follow this fashion, too. With the
feet thrust home in the stirrups,
the rider does not ride with a
straight leg—it is just the other
way about. Years ago in the
British Army they used to ride “on
their toes,” with a straight leg ; so
many got ruptured in consequence
that the authorities abandoned the
habit. Moreover, the Tod Sloan
crouch was adopted to offer less
resistance to the wind, and not for
the reason assigned by “Kell B.”
Possibly neither “Worsted Spur”
nor “Kell B.” has ever “lifted” a
horse by the way they ride, but if
they try riding with their feet well
home in the stirrups and the leathers pro-
perly adjusted they will find they will be able
to do so.
* * * *
“Nap”: Neither Ralph Freeman nor Dr.
Bradfield designed the Sydney Harbor Bridge.
The credit belongs to Henry Ford. The
whole design is to be found in the front
axle and spring. The spring is the arch,
the front axle is the roadway and the king-
pin bosses represent the pylons.
»s * * *
“Hamer” : Somebody told me that pepper
was good for barring the trail of ants to
the larder, or any other place where they were
not wanted ; from that, the idea struck me
that a judicious use of the stuff might
induce the inhabitants of a large antheap
to leave. Half a pound worked miracles,
Scattered over the antheap it fell on some
of the insects; it produced the same effect
that would be caused by the singing of the
“Red Flag” in a gathering of Rotarians.
I couldn’t hear the sneezes, but the attitudes
and movements of the ants showed how
their feelings had been outraged. Ihe popper-
powdered beasties, when they recovered,
decided apparently that there was no place
like home, and made quick tracks for various
holes; but their entry must have caused
some perturbation inside, for shortly there
was an outrush like the emptying of a rac-
tory at 5 p.m. Some of the outrushers had
evidently made up their minds to keep out
the laggards of the peppered lot; but as they
approached them they were seized with a
sor t of palsy. Next morning there wasn’t an
an t about the place.
* * * *
“Cowongnat” : Gould, the bird man, discov-
ere(j a marsupial in the ’forties which was
labelled Caloprymnus campestris. Sir George
Grey sent three specimens to the British
Museum- then the species disappeared, and
it was reckoned extinct. A bushman thought
he saw one in ’76, but bushmen were liable
to see que er things in those days, so he
wasn ’ t taken seriousiv. The'other day 11. 11.
Finlayson, of Adelaide Uni., drifted back
from prowling over tableland and plain in
the Diamantina country, where good after-
rain conditions had led to rapid increase of
the local fauna, bringing specimens. They
included skins of Caloprymnus campestris—
be j ia d rediscovered a species of rat-kangaroo.
jt is not to be confused with the common
rat-kangaroo; there’s a slight difference in
head-shape, C. campestris being broader and
its teeth quadrangular. A foot high, it is a
comparatively slender marsupial, sandy-
colored, with grizzled hair on head and back,
The short ears sport yellowish hair; all paws
are white; the tail 'is 12in. long, and bald
except at the tip. There’s a curious hair-
iess pa t c h in the centre of the chest. One
s kin has made Adelaide Museum happy,
* * * *
“Gad”: Talking of cassowaries (B.
2 3/3/’32), I met one up in North Qneons-
land last winter, on the road between Mt.
Molloy and Pt. Douglas. In the distance
I mistook it for a bullock (it was on the
roa( j) but as I approached it ambled into
the b^,sh and j coll ] d hear its heavy tread
through the scrub for a long time after. I
cou ] dn ’ t examine this specimen, but the
wings of these birds, which, with the rhea,
ostrich and emu, are probably closely re-
lated to the moa, show a stage in the flisap-
pearance of the organ of flight. In both
emit and cassowary the primary feathers of
bbe w ing are greatly reduced in number. The
quills of the cassowary’s wing project as
bllge opines, whilst the vane has been thrown
off j n tb ' e moa G f cour se, the extinction
0 f tbe w ing was complete.
A LITTLE BIT OF LAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve been working in a fact’ry, but I’ve
turned my billet in,
For my nerves are worn to fragments with
the bustle and the din.
It’s a hand-to-mouth existence through a
ceaseless dull routine,
Where a man is just a robot, just a cog in
the machine.
So I’m leaving it for ever, and I’ve got my
future planned
Now that I’m at last the owner of a little
bit of land.
When old Adam took to farming, as the
Bible bids us b’lieve,
After he’d been sacked from Eden through
the cussedness of Eve,
I've no doubt he growled a little when he
had to drive the plough
Or discovered after sundown it was time
to milk the cow.
But I bet the pair were happy as they wan-
dered hand in hand
Hound the waving corn in springtime on
their little bit of land.
When you reach the age of forty, and you
want to settle down,
You will find there’s little prospect in the
selfish, sordid town.
You will just keep drifting, drifting, in an
aimless sort of way,
Kicked about from post to pillar, living just
from day to day.
But you’ve got a solid anchor, and I think
there’s something grand
In the feeling that you’re owner of a little
bit of land.
I was reared ’way up the country, but I left
it long ago,
For the thoughts of city pleasures set my
youthful heart aglow.
Now, however little profit there may be in
wool and grain.
At least I feel a partner in the seasons once
again.
And I think that God intended, when this
universe He planned,
That we all should be the owners of a little
bit of land.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


|“EOTHEN
128 East Terrace
332 Wakefield St.'
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
PAYING GUESTS
f. GARAGE
Inclusive Tariff, £4-4-0
”■* Centra! 528
Mrs. PARKER
w
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu<I
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
e
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts o 1
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local,
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
SMOKE-OH!
THE IMITATORS.
“Trouble still threatens in the East.”
“Civilisation spreads from sea to sea.”
At school the matter thus was taught to me.
And that the dinkum oil it seems to be
Must be confessed.
A shindy of our own we lately staged ;
That others should be just like us engaged.
We might have guessed.
Hammer and tongs they’ve gone into the
scrap,
Pugnacious Chow and unpacific Jap,
Each yearning to annihilate the least
Of his opponents. Verily the East
Is going West!
¥ V
“What is Australia coming to?”
—Returned tourist in “Sun,”
Well, what with Bridge Week, tin* races
and the Show, most of it was coming to
Sydney last. week.
EXIT THE SHAMROCK.
“President de Valera has chosen the lily as the
emblem of Republican Ireland.”-— Cable.
It’s going to make a big difference to the
national songs. The downtrodden little sham-
rock suited the poetic Ireland of the past,
and it was easy to versify about on plaintive
lines. The flaunting lily only calls to mind
the celebrated one of Laguna, about which
the new President, no doubt, often sang while
BEYOND REPAIR.
“Look at me —I never use cosmetics or make-up.”
“No, dear. They have their limitations.”
in the U.S.A. A suggestion for an ant.i-
Cosgrave anthem
THE WEARIN’ O’ THE WHITE.
Oh, A 1 Capone,
Old Erin’s phoney.
The Free State’s Big Shot,
Believe it or not,
Is putting dames as well as guys on the spot
(Sober or tight,
Day and night:
It sure don’t seem right)
For the Wearin’ o’ the White, -
That universal favorite at St. Patrick’s
Day gatherings, “Dear Little Shamrock,” will
presumably give way to something less im-
personal, more passionate.
GREAT BIG LILY.
I love a girl:
My head’s in a whirl.
An’ she ain’t called Tilly,
Nor her name ain’t Milly.
Boy, don’t be silly.
No, it’s Lily,
Big Lily,
That’s this guy’s baby,
An’ I don’t mean maybe.
When I sigh,
When I cry,
When I talk,
When I walk
It’s with Lily,
Big Lily,
My Great Big Lily from Cork.
With the nation’s songs reformed on the
above lines, and the Mighty Wurlitzer
substituted for Tara’s harp as tjie national
instrument, Erin should soon be fit for a
Spaniard born in New York to preside over.
“Girls of 1922 laughed at the dress trammels
of their mothers; girls of to-dav think the flappers
of 1922 were ridiculously overclothed.”
Our brave girls keep on laughing it off, so
to speak.
* ¥
“A gathering was held in the Lord Mayor’s rooms
at the Town Hall yesterday morning, when repre-
sentatives of churches united in prayer for the
‘continued stability’ of the Harbor Bridge.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
So much for those who say t Sydneyites
aren’t concerned about the financial interests
of remote posterity.
* *
“The effect of the economic improvement is
delayed. That which was apparent in March is
really a result of the January benefit.” — “S.M.H.”
Our hopes undoubtedly were dished,
Yet we to sorrow are immune.
March did not give ns all we wished,
But haply April May in June.
* *
“Dust-storms are less severe in Australian cities
since motor roads arrived.”
Quite. Before you can have a dust-storm
you've got to raise some dust.
* *
the superman.
“Every man worships some particular hero.”
— “Sun,”
Little Pamson agreed. “Yes,” he said,
“I have always in my mind’s eye a man of
brains, insight, vision, imagination and good
judgment. His foresight, his ability to esti-
mate character are supreme. He is not
swayed by deceptive appearances, but makes
his decisions unerringly. I can only admire
him from afar. He”
“Some great captain of industry?” I
hazarded.
“No,” said Pamson, “he’s only a three-
pound-ten-a-week clerk. But he’s the man
who had the chance of marrying my missus
before I did!”
* *
“The bridegroom gave up his seat to a lady.”
After which the “Standing ’groom only”
notices were put up.
* ¥
FROM A BACKBLOCKER’S DIARY.
Sydney is situated near the Bridge; and
is entirely surrounded by lottery queues and
racecourses.
The chief industries are pony races, dog
races, horse races and collecting the dole.
Business is. brisk. During my stay I heard
the Bridge sold 23 times. Other things
that change hands frequently at absurdly
low prices are Government House, the City
Railway and the G.P.0., of which I am
the present owner.
The Sydney Show is a place where people
assemble annually to get samples.
When the people are not collecting the
dole, buying lottery tickets or attending
horse or pony meetings they have gone to
the dogs.
* *
“An extensive scheme for amalgamating several
departments in the interests of economy has been
announced by the Prime Minister.”
They call it the Shrivel Service at Can-
berra now.
“In some ways the Harbor Bridge is unique
amongst the wonders of the world.” — “D.T.”
Quite right; it’s the only Wonder on earth
that hasn’t been paid for.
* *
“The average Australian’s apathetic attitude to-
wards public affairs amounts to a disease.”
— A.N.A. speaker.
A doctor who recently attended a political
meeting has diagnosed the complaint as sleep-
ing sickness.
HE KNEW, HE KNEW!
“Hullo, old man, I haven't seen you for
years. And I can see no change about
you whatever.”
“No, old boy—not a bean.”
IF DE GROOT HAD BEEN A RUSSIAN.
De Groot was lucky,
Comrade-Premier Bhang, of Tiradesorlia.
Eastern Russia, had a practical joke played
on him by one Giggleski, shortly after the pro-
vince acquired the inestimable, boon of free
Parliamentary government. Giggleski was first
charged with champerty and lese-majeste,
but got acquittals on both counts by bribing
the Comrade-Judge. H’e was rearrested
under the Transport Act, and fined for carry-
HE JUST HATED PRESENTS.
’SONOR: “A man of your age should be a much surer witness.
What is your age? When is your birthday?”
VACILLATING WITNESS (suddenly terrified): “Your Honor isn’t
going to give me anything!”
ing passengers in contravention of Section
10. A further charge was laid against him
of sleeping while under the influence of
vodka, and the Comrade-Premier simulta-
neously lodged an appeal against his acquit-
tal on the champerty issue, accompanied by
a claim for the customary 50 per cent, of
the bribe-money paid to the Comrade-Judge.
The criminal charge (“in that accused
dropped, or caused to be dropped, a dead
mullet on the head of a Soviet Commissar,
to wit the Hon. Comrade-Premier Bhang )
was meanwhile gone on with, and proceed-
ings were begun under the Bankruptcy Act.
A few days after the sequestration of Giggle-
ski’s estate the Comrade-Crown Solicitor
advised that there was a case for libel against
him, and a writ was issued. Damages were
laid at 1,000,000 kopeks (be., 3s. 6d.).
There was a separate action in the District
Court in connection with a dishonored
cheque. The matter of the alleged larceny
of a gold pass and 500 shares in Tin Hares
Ltd., came on at the Quarter Sessions, but
a squared jury disagreed, and a like result
followed when Giggleski was rearrested and
indicted for mullet-stealing. A heavily-
bribed Comrade-Judge directed the jury to
acquit on the murder charge, which only
left the “grievous bodily harm” and offences-
against-decency issues to be disposed of. So
the Government ordered his arrest for arson.
Giggleski was now a mental as well as a
financial ruin, while the Comrade-Premier,
who had been doing it all on the comrade-
taxpayers’ money, was as fresh as paint.
On the very day that an Order-in-Couneil
was gazetted forbidding photographers to
take or offer for sale pictures of. the Com-
rade-Premier’s assailant, Giggleski went rav-
ing mad, and was arrested as “one deemed
to be insane.” A Comrade-Doctor certified
him as homicidal (which he indisputably
was) , and the command of Commissar Donall
Grantski (viz., “Shove him in the rathouse”)
was obeyed amid cheers for justice and the
liberty of the subject from every true demo-
crat in Tiradesorlia.
D.
v
TOUPEE TROUBLES.
“Plaintiff insisted on going to defendant to have
her hair waved.
“His Honor: ‘Yes, I know, women will go on
doing this until they have no hair left.’ ” — “Age.”
The lady gave a happy sigh.
“From shame,” she cried, “ I’m saved.
The Judge declares that hy-and-hye
All hair is to he waived.”
* *
Isn’t it time something was done to solve
America’s unemployed capital problem?
“Mr. Gullett said that the reasons for the reduced
tariffs would soon be understood.”
He means that we’ll get their full import.
FOR THE HOSPITALS.
“Licensing of ‘fruit machines’ for the benefit of
the hospitals has been approved by the N.S.W.
Government.”
There was no doubt people were cold-
shouldering Huggins. I asked a hard-faced
acquaintance why. ,
“That swine!” he sneered. Bah! the
cow won’t help our hospitals.”
“I thought he had a high reputation as
a Christian”
“Him a Christian !
Why he has never
backed a dog or
played licensed dice
in a pub in his
natural! Before I
knew what a mean
cow he is, I met him
one day and sug-
gested a game of
poker. I pointed out
that, under the Poker
Licensing Act, the
winner would help
the hospitals unless
the Govern inent
wanted the cash. His
answer brought him
under Lang’s new
Blasphemy Act
unless I’m very much
mistaken, viz., ‘Don't
believe in poker!’
Afterwards I found
he’d opposed a license
for the Crown-street
Two-up School. The
heartless blighter!
No bowels of com-
passion whatsoever!
I honestly believe the
cow ’ud see the hos-
pitals go broke rather
than have a stab at
pi t c h-a n d-toss or
housey or the like of
that for ’em.”
“You don’t say so !”
“I do say so !” lie
came bac k. “He
opposed every
humanitarian act of
our Government de-
signed to enable us to
play faro or euchre
in the name of sweet charity. Why, he’d
even stop a philanthropist marking a pak-a-
pu ticket if he could! He. raised a regular
howl when the three-card trick and thimble-
and-pea industries were licensed, if you’ll
believe me.”
“But someone told me that he gives
cheques every year to”
“Pah! Merely straight-out cheques!
Imagine the plight of the hospitals if they
had to depend on cheques and no one had a
fly at the tin hare or fruit machines, or gave
it a go at two-up now and then !”
He paused. “An’ what the hell would
become of coves like me?” he inquired pas-
sionately.
I saw his point.
P.


:m r\] i
S!NGLOC£
Stockproof $
cannot stretchy
sag or r
» Ml
m
w
odCi^i!
S-
w
%
>
MATERIAL:
LABOUR:
“Cyclone” is the
proved perfect stock-
proof fence! The
patent Ring-Lock
keeps it rigid; it
cannot sag or stretch.
•It is practically everlasting! No
maintenance is required.
If used with Cyclone steel posts,
Cyclone Ring-Lock Fencing is also
fire-proof, rot-proof and white-ant-
proof. Insurance is unnecessary.
Erect “Cyclone’’ and your fencing
worries are over.
Costs no more than the ordinary
wire-and-dropper fence.
The saving is. approximately £8
per mile,; for it can be erected in
a little more than half the time.
=££
=<!
=<
>=
=3(2
<5?
<#>=
©
=4
4
)=
»
=3rt
W 3
=#=
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE C?P"L T ?
24 Jamieson St.,, Sydney ; and. at Melbourne and Adelaide. (
funSi
M
Please send me by return mail your free
and priced Catalogue of “Cyclone” Metal
Ring-Lock Fences, and comparison of costs.
illustrated
Gates and
I
I
I
Name ..
Address
B. 6/4/’S2.
Q.P.S. THE BIG MONEY-SAVERS
TwS
FENCING Wllte
FENCE STANDARD!
WIRE STRAINERS
e
Autoscrew Droppers
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES 1 LIMITED.^
NOTE FURTHER REDUCTIONS IN
IRON, WIRE AND NETTING.
We are the largest supplier's in Queens-
land, if not in Australia, of iron, wire
and netting, hence it is impossible for
any firm to quote below our prices. We
invite comparison and want you to share
in with our big buying. You get a fail-
deal. We advertise the truth. There
is no catch with additional sales tax of
6 per cent, when you send the- order in.
REMEMBER, WE NEVER CHARGE THE 6 P.C. SALES TAX.
It is a condition of purchase with us and we repeat it all through our
catalogue that our prices are never above any other wholesale houses,
otherwise the buyer has the right to deduct the difference. No other firm
can give you this privilege.
O'lt-r large 200-page copyrighted catalogue gives you full details of all our lines.
We mention a, few taken at random.
IRON.-
Prices further reduced. Ton
10ft.
5/-
per
—Best British Crown, or Australian Orb.
lots, £2 7—and NO SALES TAX.
Sheet Prices: 6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
2/10 3/3 2/10 4/5
AND NO SALES TAX.
HIBISCUS COTTON-SEED MEAL.—£6/1 7/6 per ton of 20001 b., or 15/-
bag of 2001 b.
NETTING.—36 x 2 x 19g. . . 9/6 roll of 50 yards \ AMr . Mr . CAI ,-. c -p AV
72 x 2 x 1 9g. . . 20/- roll of 50 yards j AND NO SALES TAX '
K. WIRE.—2O p.c. off Maker’s List, AND NO SALES TAX. 10 x 12g. Oval
Banana Wire, 26/- cwt.
HEATING STOVES.—Queen, for Wood, No. 6, 45/-; No. 7, 50/-. Hibiscus
Kerosene Room-heaters, 35/-. AND NO SALES TAX.
PAINT. Sole Agents for Blundell & Spence’s Famous British Paint, which we
sell regularly at 25/- per gallon. This month, for cash, we are autho-
rised to sell White and all Colors at 17/6 per gallon. Don’t miss this
opportunity
DOVER STOVES.—No. 7, 75/- net; No. 8, 85/- net. All other makes of
stoves we give 1 0 p.c. off Makers’ lists, or other advertised prices, and
DON’T CHARGE SALES TAX.
CEMENT.—£6 per ton. In single bags, 5/- bag, and NO SALES TAX.
Special prices for a quantity.
Big Colored Free Pamphlet of Scientific Feeding of Sheep and Cows now ready.
Write for it if interested.
HIBISCUS CATTLE DlP.—Concentrated—l gallon makes 300 gals.—4s/-
drum of 5 gals.
ALSO LOWEST FOR Tea, Salt Crude (£5/5/- ton), Butcher’s Coarse Salt
(£5/10/-), New Era Separators, Cream Cans, Coleman Lamps and
Lanterns, Arzeen for tree-killing, Furniture, Venus Motor Spirit,
Molasses (£5 ton), Sisalkraft Building Paper (8/9 per 100 sq. ft.).
GET OUR COPYRIGHTED CATALOGUE—IT WILL SAVE YOU
POUNDS. WRITE TO-DAY.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Limited
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade & Ambulance)
BRISBANE.
WITTNER’S offer
real “money-back”
GUARANTEE
Throughout Australia, Wittners is known as a
firm that gives a genuine Money-back guaran-
tee. Mail-order buyers, make no mistake about
that; if you are not completely satisfied with any
footwear that you buy from Wittners, you will
receive your money back in full! Therefore, you
mav order either of these Rubber Boots NOW
with perfect confidence, for Wittners are respon-
sible that the quality of these Boots is all that
is claimed for them.
Guaranteed Rubber Knee
Boots for Men and Youths
2173B —This is of special quality, in spite of its low price,
and will give, under the most severe wearing conditions,
remarkable service. Made on a full-fitting “Comfort” last;
vulcanised seams ; tough friction lining ; thick black rubber
soles and heels and REINFORCED at all points of possible
strain. Guaranteed by Wittners, of course, to be a quality
boot.
When ordering by
mail, please quote
21738, Men’s sizes, 5
to 11, 17/6: Youth’s
sizes, 2 to 5, 15/9,
All Post Free.
21G3B—Similar to above, extra
quality RUBBER KNEE BOOTS.
Men’s sizes, 5 to 12, 18/6,
Post Free.
©
w
21738,
m
. i-yt-w t- i i «s
e
21588.
For Mud and Slush
these “extra” Quality
Rubber Lace Boots
2158B —Recommended and guaranteed
by Wittnei's to be absolutely water-
proof to top. On big fitting last with
water-tight tongue and
reinforced at all points
of strain. Made for
women and children as
well as men. Order as
follows:
2158B —Men’s sizes,
5 to 12. 14/6
*2ls9B—Women's sizes,
2 to 7, 12/6
2159 B—Children’s sizes,
9 to 1, 10/6
All Post Free.
Send for Catalogue! When ordering Rubber Roots, please quote number, but when
giving size, mention size worn in ordinary footwear —do not male allowances.
1
MAIL ORDERS.—4S-47 LEEDS STREET, FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
CITY BRANCH.—234-236 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
w
ON IT OVER
2200
JIMES A YEAR
•k A recent survey shoved
that the average motortst
steps cm his Starter more
than 2200 times a year.
'You’ve got t'* have a good
battery to stand this strain
and arain. Extdes are built
to start your car in any
weathe , any climate, fora
long lime. See the nearest
Exiae dealer
HAVE you ever thought how much you use the
Starter on your car? Just keep count for a week.
Then you’ll see why it’s vital that you have a
good battery—a battery that will give you ACTION.
That’s what Exides are built to do ... to give you
plenty of power. That’s why millions of motorists all
over the world say, with confidence, When its an
Exide ... you START/ 7 Buy from your local garage,
car dealer, or Exide Service Station.
£xii>e
The Long Life Battery
F n»t CARS. RADIO .nj HOME lIOHTINO
STATE DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane —Exide Battery
Service (Q.), Ltd.; Sydney—Exide Battery Service
(Gibson, Battle and Go., Ltd.) ; Melbourne —A. P.
Sutherland; Adelaide —Unbehaun and Johnstone,
Ltd.; Perth—M. J. Bateman, Ltd.; Hobart —Medhurst
and Sons Pty., Ltd.
C 5 7
WHEN IT'S AN...
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.


WSmm
#* ♦ l #'» a
Illliiiilia
„ , „ ~x[/tiiji Melbourne Cemetery. The low chimney, 25 feet high, is
The Melbourne Crematorium at Fawkner, controlled by the trustees of me \ i possible by the use of oil-burning furnaces,
completely hidden from the front view by the facade of the n Sotion ’’Provision is made in the building for a chapel capable of
lends itself to an evenly-balanced design, and conveys «npictt.san* s TI , ‘ litcct an n surveyor to the Cemetery Trust, and the
accommodating 200 persons. uX ,«n,J Unco.
Prospectus
Brisbane Crematorium Limited
The Company is now proceeding to registration under the Queensland Companies Acts ISOS, 1913. 1931.
NOMINAL CAPITAL £20,000
Divided into 20,000 shares of £1 each, of which 10,000 shares are held in reserve.
Bankers:
COMMONWEALTH-BANK OF AUSTRALIA,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Provisional Directors :
T. L. JONES, Director Foggitt Jones, I’ty., Ltd., Brisbane.
W M L’ESTRANGE. Director City Electric Light Co. Ltd., Lnsbane.
K. F. MARLAY, Stock and Share Broker, 212-14 Queen Street, Brisbane
M. S. HERRING, Manager Queensland Trustees, Limited. Queen Jnsban .
And two others to be appointed at the discretion of the Slnndio-dms.
Solicitors:
McGREGOR, McGREGOR, GIVEN <5
Y.M.C.A. Buildings, Edward Street,
CAPNER,
Brisbane.
Secretary (pro tem.):
M. S. HERRING, Box 296 E, G.P.0., Brisbane.
SHARES NOW OFFERED FOR PUBLIC SUBSCRIPTION.
10,000 shares of £1 each are now offered for public subscription,
payable 2/6 per share on application, 2/6 per share on allotment, and the
balance in calls as required, not exceeding 2/6 per share at intervals of
not less than two months. No cash is being paid to the promoters, and no
free shares of any kind are being issued. In fact, some part of the initial
expenditure has already been borne by the Brisbane Cremation Association.
5000 shares are now subscribed and underwritten.
GENERAL.
Out of the crucible of comparison, the Press throughout the world is
unanimous in support of Crematoriums.
As pioneers in Australia, the public Company in Sydney and t^ie
Melbourne Crematorium disclose the fact that good profit is available even
with low charges.
N S V/. Company reports: 1925—58 Cremations 400 in 1928.
Melbourne „ „ 192 7—32 „ —162 in 1929.
For many years it has been deemed desirable by a large number of Brisbane
citizens that a Crematorium should be established in this city.
It has therefore been decided to follow the action taken by the
cremationists and to establish a public Company under certain definite
conditions set out below, having sufficient capital to erect and equip a
modern Crematorium.
As the appeal for support is mainly to those who already favor
cremation, any further advocacy of this method is unnecessary. For the
information of those who may not be aware of the widespread feelin'g
in its favor, we give the following facts.
On October, 4, 1931, the Secretary of the B.M.A. wrote as follows,
confirming resolution passed on February 18, 1930:
“I am directed to inform you that my Council approves of the
establishment of a Crematorium in Brisbane.”
Without any systematic canvass, signatures to over 100 declarations
of belief in the necessity for a Crematorium were obtained as far back
as 1916.
At a public meeting held in Brisbane on February 20, 1930, a motion
was carried, without a dissentient, approving of a Company to carry out
cremation.
THE CREMATORIUM. From the plan of the above illustrated
Crematorium, by Mr. Charles Heath, Architect and Surveyor, it is
intended to contruct a suitable edifice for the Brisbane Crematorium
Company. Cremation is by oil-fuel combustion, the method being
with two retort casques.
THE ENTRANCE AND PORCH lead into THE CHAPEL, where SERVICES
are held, with accommodation for a considerable number of mourners
and friends in sympathy. Either side of the CHAPEL a decorative
and distinctive COLONNADE and PERGOLA is planned to suit the
general tempo and character of FUNERAL SERVICES.
In every way true FUNERAL AND BURIAL RITES,
with any service, in no way different except change
in definition.
THE APSE at the rear of ROSTRUM, leads to the VESTRY AND COLUM-
BARIUM. In the latter several hundred URNS, each one for the
remains of the dead, with INDIVIDUAL NICHE ALCOVE and
INSCRIPTION TABLET; or for FAMILY GROUPS or ALCOVE
VAULTS, in soft, mellowed shadows.
It should be borne in mind that usual GRAVES may be used if desired
for the remains of the departed, and the usual GRAVESTONES, MONU-
MENTS, or other types of MEMORIAL.
SITUATION. —It is proposed by the Directors to erect a Crematorium
within the bounds of one of Brisbane’s existing cemeteries, and it is
anticipated that the completion will not be longer than three months
from the closing of this subscription-list.
The idea of fashion of passing era is entirely eliminated,
because CREMATION is rapidly becoming a standard-
ised method, with outstanding characteristics in praise
of popularity.
Love, fidelity, integrity and beauty are impressed with
greater inspiration for devotion to this ideal and definite
rewards.
INVESTMENT. —The profits disclosed from balance-sheets of Australian
Crematorium Companies, even with charges as low as £7/7/-,
inclusive fee for Cremation, Service and all attendance, show definitely
that the Brisbane Crematorium Company, by following their methods
and organisation, will be enabled to secure revenue from a minimum
of only 8 Cremations per month, sufficient to provide for all working
expenses and administration costs.
This is a very small percentage of an average total of over 200
Funerals per month in this State, and the number of Cremations in N.S.W.
is over 30 per month.
CREMATION ASSOCIATION. For many years this Association, with
life membership, has been in existence. This is sound guarantee of
success for the Company and its shareholders, with future publicity
that must ensure State-wide popularity.
Devotees to this ideal can, if they so desire, donate such profits that
may be obtained for the dedication of special additional stained-glass
windo’ws for the Chapel, or other purposes. This is, of course, entirely
the sole option of a shareholder.
TRUE VALUE.
Cremation embodies an immutable law of nature, this pre-
ference with success achieved for the completely satisfying per-
petuation of memory, by such precious tribute, impressive,
hallowed, and the comfort of realising this better choice to
contribute in an active way to the peace and charm of life.
THE BRISBANE CREMATORIUM, LIMITED.
APPLICATION FORM.
To the Directors of
THE BRISBANE CREMATORIUM, LIMITED, •
212-1 Jf Queen Street ( Herrington House), Brisbane.
I hereby apply for shares of 'll each in the abovenamed .. . -
Company's Prospectus dated , and I a.orrce to accept the same or any less number of shares that may be allotted to me, and to
pay the balance in terms of the said prospectus, and I authorise you to register me as the holder of the said shares. I enclose herewith £ application at
2/6 per share.
Company, and I request you to allot me such shares upon the terms of the
FULL NAME OF APPLICANT .FULL- ADDRESS
OCCUPATION SIGNATURE ...
DATED 1932.
NOTE- Applications may be sent to the Secretary, c/o G.P.O. Box 296 E, Brisbane, or any recognised members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange. All remittances should be made payable
to the’ Company and made Not Negotiable and crossed A/c Payee only.
Intending investors are reminded that applications should be sent without delay, because recent applications are adding
to total subscriptions. Proportionate allotments with over-subscriptions. ADDRESS: Box 1580 V, G.P.0., Brisbane. C. Ewart B.*


5
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
9S PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO OPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Managing Director: H. Fell
I i e o d J? fflce: P ' &C - Buildin £» corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
A.S.w. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd. ‘ j~
POWER OF THE PENNY
How many realise, genuinely and understandingly realise, the
power of the penny?
The old exhortation, “Take care of the pennies and the pounds
will take care of themselves,” has more significance than most
of us realise.
Think it out —better still, try it out —the steady, sincere con-
servation of the small coins, the proper practical appreciation
of the value of small things, and their cumulative qualities.
Save the pennies, and the pounds, too, if you can, but let
the Savings Account take care of them for you.
That is the better way by at least 3 per cent, per annum.
Commonwealth Savings lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
THE SMALL FARM.
“Booraby”: Small farms of 10 aci’es or
less, distinguished from the market garden
and the orchard, have proved successful in
numerous instances when in the right hands
and the right situation. Many people just
now have this idea of a home and a liveli-
hood in mind. The first things to consider
are conveniences of marketing and the nature
of the soil. Your farm must be handy to
a populous centx-e. You can’t go in for
grain and fodder ci’ops, except for home use,
whilst existing poultry farms and vegetable
gardens already supply the demand in most
places. Poultry, however, and also pigs, are
good sidelines if feed for them is produced
on the ground.
The small farm, to a great extent, has to
specialise. It has to get in early with such
crops as tomatoes, to have something to
follow when tomatoes become a glut, and
to depend on crops that are not regularly
grown to the glutting stage. There are farms
in Victoria devoted wholly to the cultiva-
tion of herbs. This crop needs very little
attention. One Victorian grower kept a few
sheep, and when his field needed weeding he
turned the woollies into it; they cropped
down the growths between the rows, but left
thyme and marjoram. Besides doing the
cleaning, they helped to manure the ground.
The herb crop also eixabled the grower to
keep several hives of bees —and honey is
another good sideline for the small plot.
There are small farms growing native
flowers, such as boronia, waratali and
wattles, for which there is always a good
sale. These flowei-s, as well as many other
attractive sorts, arc quick growers and easily
cultivated. The native flowei-s last longer
when cut than the ordinary garden flowers,
and there is always a demand for new sorts.
The brown boronia, originally from West-
ralia, is now cultivated in N.S.W. and
Victoria, together with the native rose and
some lighter pink varieties. These flowei-s
make a regular standby on the small farm,
and at the same time provide honey.
The rest of the plot could be utilised for
various crops according to circumstances.
For instance, in centres where there are
many stabled horses a patch of lucerne, fox-
sale in small green bundles, ia worth while. The
lucerne stand lasts for years, and the surplus
is good green stuff for fowls. In planting
the plots, the requirements -of the fowls and
pigs must be kept in mind. They’ll bring
in money some time, apart from the regular
supply of eggs.
Small as the farm is, there is still room
to keep a couple of cows, with the help of
the lucerne patch and the waste on the farm.
If there is bush around, several cows may
be kept, as they can be turned out part of
the time. In that way the farm is profitable
by what it saves in household expenditure
plus the income derived from it.
But choose a fertile plot where there is
water and good natural drainage, and don’t
be deterred if there is heavy timber on it.
The timber is usually a sign of fertility, and
it will more than pay for the work of clear-
ing. Much timber is needed for fencing and
building. Split the best of the sxirplus into
palings, posts and rails, and the rest cut
up for firewood. But leave as many trees
as possible in the pasture section —which
also makes a shaded poultry-run. Wattle-
ti-ees for flowei-s, bark, fuel and bee-food
can be planted along the outside bouixdai-ies
of this.
BORE WATER FOR IRRIGATION.
"Alf Alpha” : It has long been recognised
that, soluble salts (mineral), when present
in the soil to any appreciable extent, become
toxic to plant life. This toxicity will vary
with plant, salt (mineral), soil and climatic
conditions.
Certain soft, tender plants, such as let-
tuce, are the most susceptible to soluble salt
concentration. Grasses, for the most part,
have such a dislike for the usual soluble
minerals found in nature that the condition
of pasture is often a very good gxxide to
the presence or absence of soluble salts.
I have destroyed potato plants by grow-
ing them in a one-tentli of one per cent,
concentration of soluble salt, whereas
mangels and the like can stand quite a lot
of solxxble mineral —as a matter of fact, a
dressing of common salt will in this case
improve the yield. Sugar beet has a liking
for common salt, but the salt depreciates the
purity of the juice, and thereby causes loss
and trouble in the factory. Certain hardy
perennials, such as asparagus and the salt-
bush family, may be cited as salt-loving
plants, but exceptions do not prove the rule.
Bore water which is mineralised usually
contains common salt, gypsum, Epsom salts,
lime carbonate and magnesia carbonate as
the principal dissolved salts. Common salt
is the main toxic salt, but Epsom salts (mag-
nesium sulphate) are also capable of being
destructive to the growing plant. Gypsuni
and the carbonates of lime and magnesia
probably do more good than harm, particu-
larly in the case of legumes, sixch as lucerne,
vetches and peas. It is possible, but rare,
to find a mineral water almost deficient in
the toxic salts, i.e., common salt and Epsom
salts, but waters of this description do not
have a high content of dissolved mineral
solids. They therefore may be used for irri-
gation, and are eminently suitable for the
culture of lucerne and the like.
Water for irrigation should, as closely as
possible, approach the composition of rain
water. Mineral waters of approved quality
which do not contain more than 70 grains
of dissolved solids (mainly common salt)
per gallon are useful, if used judiciously, but
the use of bore waters with a heavier con-
tent of soluble salts than that quoted will
either (a) destroy the crop or pasture, or ( b)
gradually contaminate the soil until it be-
comes toxic to plant life. In dry areas
there is more danger from irrigating with
mineral waters than in wet districts, where
the heat is not so intense and there is
always a chance of a shower of rain.
MAKING CHARCOAL.
A Grenfell (N.S.W.) correspondent, in-
spired by what he has read about the growing
use of charcoal gas for power pxirposes on
farms, sent along a series of questions about
burning charcoal in a pit. They were sub-
mitted to the State Department of Agricul-
ture, which, always obliging, has supplied
the subjoined precise and very useful infor-
mation on the subject:—
Wood should be cut into lengths not
exceeding 6ft.; .shorter lengths are advisable.
The pieces should be from 3in. to 6in. in
diameter, with smaller pieces to fill in spaces.
The wood should be as straight and clean as
possible.
The site of the kiln should be level, shel-
tered from winds, and near water if pos-
sible. Clay loam is the best soil. A kiln
of 12ft. in diameter and sft. to Bft. high
will hold about four cords of wood and yield
about 12001 b. of ehai*coal.
To make the kiln, drive a stake into the
centre of the spot selected, and build round
this some brushwood twigs with which the
fire is to be started. Next, make flues on the
ground by. placing two logs about Bft. long
and Sin. to lOin. in diameter parallel on the
ground, about I2in. apart. These are to
be set in the line of the prevailing wind.
Then pile l'ound the central brushwood and
over the flues billets of wood standing nearly
upright, with a slight lean to the centre,
and stacked compactly. These billets should
be about 2ft. to 2ft. 6in. loixg. Pack all the
spaces with small pieces of wood. Proceed
then to stack wood round this until the stack
is completed. When finished, the pile will
be about sft. to 6ft. in height. When this
stage has been reached all the crevices should
be filled with small wood; the logs on the
ground forming the flue skoxild be projecting
at each end about Ift.
The kiln is then to be covered, but before
doing this short lengths of wood, about 18in.
long and 4in. thick, are set lying on the
ground 18in. to 2ft. apart round the base.
On these, brushwood is laid i-eaching tlu-ough
the outer covering of earth. The arrange-
ment permits air to enter the kiln at the
bottom, thus aiding burning.
Two kiln coverings are required. The
inner one is made by thatching the stack of
wood with grass-—dx-ied or green—or twigs
and leaves, to a thickness of about 3in. or
4in. This is then covered with sand ox-
earth to a depth of 9in. to 12in. The kiln
is now ready for kindling, which is done by
introducing a long firestick or torch at the
end of a pole thi-ough one of the flues to the
bx-ushwood at the centre.
The kiln should be set alight on a still
morning about daybreak. Tlie fire works
from the top of the kiln downwards and out-
wai-ds. If the burning is not proceeding
satisfactorily vents may be opened or closed
below the line of fire. When the flames
reach the bottom of the kiln, all vents must
be closed. During the burning the kiln must
be carefully watched to see that no cracks
or hollows occur, as these will cause it to
cave in and the whole burst into flames,
burning the wood to ash. A kiln of this
kind will take from 8 hours to 12 hours for
burning, and one to two days for cooling
down. The cooling down may be accelerated
by watering. To remove the charcoal, the
kiln may be allowed to cool dowm for two
weeks, the charcoal being then removed.
The secret of success in making charcoal
in a kiln is to have the w 7 ood well packed
and the spaces filled up with small wood.
The covering should be made very compact,
and during burning it should be filled in
when any cracks develop. If the covering
is showing signs of forming into hollows,
wood should be handy, the cover removed,
fresh wood placed in, and the cover of earth
replaced immediately. Before opening up,
however, all vents should be closed in order
to exclude air.
FLOCK IMPROVEMENT.
“Liss”: “Cass” (B. 9/3/’32) must achieve
some queer results if he really classes young
ewes in the way he describes. The system
is an old one as applied to the judging of
show 7 sheep, and for many years has been
the subject of argument. What would
“Cass” do with the ewe wdiose conformation
was almost all that could be desired, but
whose fleece was all the reverse? Or vice
versa? The possible combinations of good
and bad points a ewe could have and still
aggregate the required 30 under the system
are almost endless. Let us suppose that
one year (or two, or three) very few sheep
beyond the usual percentage of wasters fell
below the 30-point mark. What then of the
improvement to the flock? “Cass” may
argue that these are exti'eme cases, but any
system (if it can be called such) that would
permit such positions to arise is useless.
The only sound method is to know what
you w 7 ant and to go for it. Set your
standard pretty high, and raise it as your
flock improves, culling always from 30 p.c.
to 40 p.c. When the flock has reached a
high level the quality of these culls will be
pretty good; one should then take out
the culls of the culls and feed them to the
dogs, calling the balance “cast” ewes.
Whereupon their value will appreciate; it’s
wonderful what’s in a name!
With all respect to “Cass,” his failure to
grow a “medium to strong” wool on hill
country does not prove that it can’t be done.
True fine wool —or perhaps I should say
superfine wool—can only be grown in cer-
tain fairly well-defined districts, it is agreed,
but if there is any sound merino sheep coun-
try in N.S.W. that will not grow strong
wool I have yet to see it. I am at present
living on the Monaro, where I am a new-
comer. A great deal of it, in my district
anyway, is the steep hilly country, finely
grassed, such as “Cass” describes, and, though
no one would take it for fine-wool country,
I was astonished at the recent Bombala
show by the display of stud sheep in the
strong-wool sections. Every enti-y in the
fine and medium classes had a walk-over,
while every prize in the sti-ong section was
keenly contested. Incidentally I saw there,
in the section for a pen of tln-ee fat wethers,
the three biggest merino wethers I have ever
seen; and they were bred locally, too.
CAGING RABBITS.
“Pine Scrub”: There are two objections
to steel traps as a means of eradicating
rabbits. First, the traps must be visited
early each day or the catch will consist
chiefly of legs; secondly, it is impossible to
avoid catching sheep. That means loss of
time seai-ching for them, as they invariably
pull out the pin, and if not found quickly
get down across a log or in a gully, and
the crows are there first. With cages the
rabbits can be cleaned out without making a
full-time job of it. This trap is always set
and will hold the rabbits until removed.
Best results are obtained in the warm
weather, as bunny can i-emain in the burrows
a long time in cold weather and consequently
more cages are needed.
Making the cages is a simple job. I found
that after a little practice I could turn
out three per hour. Cut a strip 2ft. 3in.
wide from a roll of 42in. netting and shape
into a cylinder, reducing one end to about
4in. at the mouth so that it will fit tightly
into the burrow. Make a trap door of No. 8
wire and netting and swing it inside cage
about 15 inches from the mouth, at an angle
that will prevent the rabbits forcing back
past it once they are caught. Next close
the large end by folding the netting over, and
hold it closed with a double-ended wire Ixook,
attached so that the case may be opened to
remove rabbits. One man can work 100 to
200 cages according to the country.
Set the cages across the paddock, working
on a face, and place two or three in the large
warrens. All uncaged openings must be
securely close. For this purpose paper is
best, as rabbits will not face it, but stones or
sticks make a satisfactory block. Most of
the kittens will enter the cage the first night,
but the old rabbits usually hang in the
burrows for two to three days. Then the
burrows may be dug-in and the cages moved
on. The quicker the paddock is covered, the
fewer loose rabbits there will bo left to
re-open the burrows. A pack of dogs is
essential in cleaning up, as in addition to
catching those rabbits which make back over
the caged country, it ensures the rabbits
being in the burrows before the cages are set.
Fumigating is a quicker job than either
trapping or caging and quite as efficient,
but it is more costly and there is no return
from skins. There is only one argument
against the superiority of digging-out to all
other methods of eradication and that is, to
many, the unanswerable argument of cost.
DWARF DISEASE OF SUGAR-CANE.
This new and “serious” disease is the
subject of a pamphlet written by A. F.
Bell, of the Queensland Bureau of Sugar
Experiment Stations. It has been discovered
chiefly in the Rosella (N.Q.) district, “in
15 fields distributed over nine farms,” the
most susceptible variety apparently being
P.O.J. 2714, introduced from Java. Says
Mr. Bell: “The owner of the farm on which
the disease was originally found received
three sticks of P.O.J. 2714 in 1927; these
gave rise to well-grown stools, which in
1928 were harvested and planted out in
three rows. This cane was used in 1929
to plant two small blocks, one of which
remained healthy, but in the other 69 to 70
diseased stools were found in 1930. Exam-
ination of the ratoons of the three rows
from which these plants were taken revealed
the presence of three diseased stools • two
adjacent in one row, the third immediately
opposite in the next row. Q. 813 grown
immediately adjoining the worst-infected field
of P.O.J. 2174 has remained disease-free
throughout.
“The leaves of diseased canes are stiff
and erect, thus imparting a fan-like appear-
ance to the cane top; the spindle and the
younger leaves are usually twisted and de-
formed, of a lighter color, and shorter than
normal. As in the case l of mosaic, there is
a progressive masking of the streaks in pass-
ing to the older leaves, but with dwarf
disease the older leaves are of a darker
green than normal. The most striking symp-
tom is seen in the case of primary infection.
Here the stool consists of a number of
stunted shoots which form no cane; the
leaves are erect, stunted and clustered, and
bear the typical yellowish streaks, with, as
a rule, scalded or reddish tips, margins or
stripes, and later becoming frayed and torn.
The majority of the plants produced by
planting infected cuttings have died out
without producing many shoots, but those
which persist eventually produce a greater
number of small shoots and resemble a tuft
of grass. This stage of the disease much
resembles extreme cases of s,ereh and Fiji
diseases. Ratoon plants from diseased stools
present a similar appearance, and also form
the grass-like cluster, wdth no production of
cane. The life of such stunted shoots is
usually very short.”
Mr. Bell rejects the supposition ,£hat the
disease has been brought from Java, where it
is seemingly unknown; lie thinks it pos-
sible that it has been present in wild
plants or other cultivated plants, and has
been transmitted to sugar-cane following the
growing of susceptible varieties. No sus-
picious symptoms have been observed on
adjacent grass and weeds, but droughty con-
ditions for two seasons have been unfavor-
able for this type of observation.
He recommends control measures similar
to those effective in the case of mosaic and
Fiji diseases. In effect: (1) “Study the
symptoms in order to be able to recognise
disease in the field. (2) Inspect young
plant and ratoon cane regularly and uproot
any diseased stools as soon as they are
found; also reject that particular field as a
source of plants. (3) Keep fields and head-
lands as clean as possible. (4) Avoid plant-
ing P.O.J. 2714 if other varieties will give
satisfactory yields. (5) In any case of
doubt, refer the matter to the nearest officer
of the Bureau of Sugar Experiment Sta-
tions.”
MOLASSES AS FERTILISER.
“Ex-grower”: Molasses has proved its
value as a fertiliser in the Mount Bauple
(Q.) district. About 15 years ago, the
local sugar-mill management' dumped many
tons on a poor plot of forest land, at that
time thought to be useless for cultivation.
Later the owner of the land placed it under
cane, and also an adjoining patch which
had never had molasses dumped on it. At
the present time, with a drought in the
district, the molasses-fertilised area is show-
ing cane sft. 6in. in height, whereas that
on the unfertilised land is scarcely 2ft.
high.
A STANDARD DIP FOR SULTANAS.
Convinced that the adoption of a standard
dip would eliminate many of the variations
that now cause dissatisfaction overseas, the
A.D.F.A. has decided to recommend the
mixed dip as the standard for the industry.
The ordinary types of dip tanks used for
(Continued on page 26.)


E: . , _; j
Nothing but
superfine calf. . .
is used for the upper of this
special Abbey Shoe. Glossy,
pliant, it rises in a gentle curve,
whe're the lacing is, and so fits
with utmost comfort over the
instep- arch. The sole, made of
the hardest-wearing leather, is
of even thickness right from toe
to heel. That guarantees extra
strength. And, because'it fits so
perfectly, a shoe like this pre-
serves its smartness longer.
Postal Orders: Narrow, medium
and wide fittings are available in
all full and half sizes. Specify
width and order, also, a supply
of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d. per tin), or a handy clean-
ing outfit (2s. 6d).
DARK TAN CALF, 48/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years.
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 275
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Legal Notices.
|N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND
(Wellington District).
In Divorce.
No. 3937.
To LESLIE GEORGE LAURENCE WILSON
formerly of Petone near Wellington in New Zealand
Painter but now of address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Wel-
lington citing you to appear and answer the petition
of Ivy Myrtle Wilson wherein she prays for a divorce
from you on the ground of desertion and such
citation intimates that in default of your so doing
the Court will proceed to hear the said petition
and to pronounce sentence therein notwithstanding
your absence. NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid you are within forty
days after the date of this publication to attend
in person or by your Solicitor at the Supreme Court
Office at Wellington and there to enter an appear-
ance without which you will not he allowed to
address the Court at any stage of the proceedings.
A copy of the said citation and petition will
be supplied to you on your applying for the same
at the Supreme Court Office at Wellington.
Dated at Wellington this 21st day of March, 1932.
[L.s.l C. MASON,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the respondent are particularly requested
to forward to him the foregoing advertisement.
PERCY WYNDHAM JACKSON is the Solicitor for
the petitioner, whose address for service is at the
offices of Messieurs Levi Jackson and Yaldwyn,
Solicitors, Bowen House, Bowen Street, Wellington.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 762 of 1930.
Between EDNA VIVIAN HANORAII BRIEDIS
(by her guardian Mabel Amy Maybury)
Petitioner
And ALBERT RRIEDIS Respondent.
Ta_ALBERT BRIEDIS late of Point Piper Sydney
Gardener.
TAKE NOTICE that a Decree for Restitution of
conjugal rights dated the eighteenth day of
November one thousand nine hundred and thirty-one
has been made against you in a suit wherein EDNA
VIVIAN HANORAII BRIEDIS was Petitioner and
you the said ALBERT BRIEDIS were Respondent
requiring you within twenty-one days from service
of the said Decree to take back or return home to
the Petitioner and render to her conjugal rights and
further requiring you within four days after the
expiration of the said twenty-one days to file in
the registry of this Honorable Court a certificate
of compliance with the Decree. AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that by an Order made on the
twenty-thdrd day of March 1932 it was. ordered that
•substituted service of the said Decree be made by
advertisement and as otherwise directed. AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the consequence
of your non-compliance with the Decree is that the
Petitioner may at once present a Pe'tition asking ‘for
a Decree against you for judicial separation or for
dissolution of your marriage. AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that service is to be taken as complete at
the expiration of four weeks from the first publica-
tion of this notice in pursuance of the said Order
from which date the twenty-one days in which you
are to take back or return home to the Petitioner
will commence to Am.
Dated this thirtieth day of March, 1932.
For the Registrar,
[L.s.l E. L. - DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
NEVILLE W. MONTAGU & LAPTHORNE, Solici-
tors for Petitioner.. 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Notice.
’T’O become acquainted with the ex-
tended collection of Choice Flower and
Vegetable Seeds, including Valuable
Novelties, offered by Fosters, Ltd., it is
necessary to obtain their 1932 Catalogue.
Posted free to intending buyers.
FOSTERS, LTD.,
“ 192 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
AN INEXPENSIVE STATION SADDLE
No. 131,
“THE BOUNDARY RIDER”
STOCK SADDLE
A substantial saddle suitable for ordinary
station work. It has Hogskin Seat and the
capped pads are set well up into the skirts and fitting along
the rider’s thighs. The panel has wide facings at back and
leather points down sides and the flaps are of kip leather.
Price, £6/15/- bare.
No. 3B Bevelled Leathers .... 7/6
Folded leather girth 5/-, and
No. 4 Bar Irons, 7/6, are extra.
Freight Paid for Cash with Order
to any N.S.W. Railway Station.
GENUINE BEENIE
PATENT HORSE RUGS.
PUT ON —STAY ON. Every genuine Beenie Rug has the
name stencilled on it. Refuse imitations.
Write for Fug Price List and Special List of
Low-priced Saddles, Whips, etc.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. (See you get into the ri£ht shop.)
e
VVs
•Wg
the caustic dips are declared to be suitable,
and the following advice is given :
For 50 gallons of water use 2Jlb. potassium
carbonate, in which 14 pints olive oil are
emulsified. Add 111 b. caustic soda per 50
gallons of the mixture. Heat to a tempera-
ture of ISO degrees Fahr. and test by dipping
some of the sultanas. Add additional caustic
soda (Jib. at a time) until slight _ cracks
appear on the berries. The dip is then
ready for use at 177 to IS3 degrees Fahr.;
it should not be heated to higher tempera-
tures when not in use.
Make all necessary additions to the volume
of the dip by adding the solution prepared
as stated. (A stock solution prepared m a
separate tank is found useful.) Additions
in volume usually necessitate additions of
caustic soda. The appearance of the fruit
should at all times be taken as a guide to
tlie concentration of the caustic soda. If
over-cracking, decrease concentration by add-
ing solution. If under-cracking, add caustic
soda (Jib. to 50 gallons) until cracks are
in evidence.
Dipping should be carried out as rapidly as
possible. Careful handling from vine to rack
is essential, and shading of the sunny side
in very hot weather is recommended to prevent
excessive browning. Should rainy weather
occur, spraying with the cold-dip solution is
useful after the rain to prevent darkening
and to hasten drying. The spray is prepared
by dissolving 4lb. carbonate of potash in
8’ gallons water and adding half a cup of
olive oil. Stir thoroughly and rapidly to
form an emulsion.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Price of grazing land in New Eng-
land ( N.S.W.)?' (2) Terms of purchase?
(3) Cost per head of fine-wool sheep? (4)
Size of area needed to carry 1000 sheep ?
(5) Freight of stock on railway? (6)
Capital necessary to begin? —B72B.
(1) From 30s. per acre, mountain
granite country, to £6 per acre for
flats with established lucerne. These
depend generally on class of title. (3) Six-
tooth to aged ewes, 7s. 6d. to 10s. per head.
Young ewes will cost more. (4) Depends on
the class of country. Average New England
country will carry one wether to one and
a half acres. (5) Selling charges (which
include freight, selling agents’ commission,
etc.) amount to 2s. 3d. to 2s. 9d. per head,
depending on distance from the market. (6)
Governed by the type of sheep-farming to
be undertaken and extent of operations.
How to eradicate blackberry bushes? —
8955.
Spray the plants with' sodium arsenite and
burn when they become dry. Further appli-
cations of the spray can then be given to
destroy the young plants, or these can be
hoed out. The most suitable time for treat-
ment is just when the plants are fruiting.
Young plants can be kept down by running
goats in the paddock. Kikuyu grass sown
after burning helps to smother the suckers.
I am growing umbrella grass and lucerne.
The lucerne is green and growing, while the
umbrella is dead on top. Why?— B742.
This grass is a perennial. Probably it
has seeded and has now become dormant for
the winter. It should reappear early in the
spring.
Recipe for whitewash for iron buildings?
—BB3l,
Slake down half-bushel of freshly-burned
lime and keep covered with bags. Add lib.
soft soap dissolved in hot water; add lib.
alum, also dissolved in hot water. Make up
mixture with hot water to the thickness of
cream, cover and leave for a few days. Thin
down with hot water to the consistency of
paint and apply hot. If two coats are
needed, allow about a week to elapse between
each application.
I have heard that male pawpaw-trees may
be made to bear fruit by driving big nails
or wooden pegs through the trunk. Is this
correct ? —8833.
No. Nails have no influence. Male trees
occasionally produce female flowers (amongst
males) on’ racemes. The fruit is inferior.
How can I destroy crickets, which are a
pest in my garden? —BBl3.
Spray the plants which are principally
attacked with arsenate of lead, at the rate
of 2oz. to 4 gallons of water, using a spray
with a very fine nozzle or a syringe with
a fine rose so that all parts of the foliage
are covered.
What would it cost to purchase a pair
of tanks for the distillation of eucalyptus
oil in the field, transport to field (within
County of Cumberland) and erection? —
8913. '
Tanks cost anything from £5 to £l2 each,
according to quality. A handy man, with the
assistance of a fitter, can set up a plant
of two tanks in a day. Usually in the
eucalyptus-oil districts good second-hand 2in.
black piping may be purchased at Is. per
foot, which is quite suitable. Clips are
considered to be the best for fastening down
the tanks, and the cost of these is about
6s. each. Stirring tanks are cheaper, because
the cost of the more expensive clips is saved,
also the 16ft. of 2in. angle-iron used as a
flange. A good deal depends upon the
locality to which the tanks have to be
transported and set up. In somewhat in-
accessible places it might cost up to £4O
to £5O to erect a pair of tanks. Usually
the expense incurred is about £25 per pair.
Transportation of plant is very costly.
What arc the chief by-products of maize?
—9003.
From the endosperm are obtained corn-
flour and starches, used in laundries and in
the preparation of baking powders and in
the treatment of baking powder and cotton.
From maize starch is also obtained maize-
syrup (glucose), which is used in technical
processes connected with confectionery, jams
and jellies, and fruit preserving, as well as
by tanners and brewers. Power-alcohol,
dextrine (an adhesive) and gluten meal are
also obtained from maize, and the germ
removed in the preparation of starch yields a
valuable oil, which is used for soap and
paint-making, lubricating and lighting, and
can be converted into a rubber-substitute.
The mqss from which the oil is expressed
makes nutritious stock food.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Beefo”: Barbed and plain-wire gates sag
to blazes if some support is not given
between posts. Twitch two light saplings at
intervals between the posts. Use tie-wire
and twitch tightly to each wire in the gate;
the thing will then hang firmly and all slack-
ness is prevented.
“Homby” : It pays to search for the bands
amongst broken sheaves when feeding them
out to stock —it doesn’t take a great many
inside an animal to kill it. Horses are
particularly susceptible. Employees are apt
to be careless in this matter, especially when
feeding late at night or in inclement weather,
and it’s the owner’s job to neutralise that
carelessness by vigilance. Also don’t allow
bands and ends of twine balls to be left
amongst the stubble where you'll be turn-
ing the sheep later on. Quite a lot of mys-
terious deaths are due to twine balls picked
up in cultivation paddocks.
“Beady”: My pony got at the chick-
wheat and foundered badly. A comfortable
bed of bracken ferns was made, and a drench,
a cupful of bicarbonate baking soda dis-
solved in a quart of water, administered
every two hours, with, three hours after the
first drench, 1 to 14 pints of raw linseed oil
mixed with four tablespoons of turps. On
the second and third days the soda drench
was repeated morning and night. The pony
was supplied with plenty of water to drink,
and was fed lightly with freshly-cut green
lucerne. She was soon ready for work again.
“R.E.”: There’s no job for a dog other
than watchdog on the dairy farm. Worth-
while dairy cows are nervous creatures,
and should not be run in by barking tykes.
The heavy milker will always present her-
self at milking-time; if regularity in hours is
observed she will readily x’espond to a call
even on dark mornings.
“Sativa” : My experience of lucerne bloat
(“Pine Scrub,” B. 2/3/’32) is that it is
chiefly caused through animals being turned
on the lucerne hungry. No harm will come to
them if they are full-bellied when they are
put into the lucerne paddock and allowed to
stay there. I give empty stock ten minutes
on the lucerne, with an interval of half an
hour; then 15 minutes, with 20 minutes’
spell, and so on until past the gorging stage.
It is a troublesome job and even then uncer-
tain, for some gather too much and others
not enough. It is perhaps best to cut and
feed lucerne to them till well fed.
“T.F.W.”: To protect our pants against
the splashing of the milk, which after a
day or two becomes rather high, a Sydney
lady on a visit to our place made up aprons
out of 701 b. sugar-bags. She split them tip
the middles to within Bin. of the top or belt
line, bound the raw edges with tape and
stitched a tape on for belt. Result, an
apron which does not hinder you in any way.
“Bill R.” : A veil for the horse? Cut a
patch of basil 14in. by lOin. into |in. strips,
leaving an uncut 2in. margin for attachment
to the headstall forehead band. Soak basil
in water and when it’s sopping wet twist
strips into rounded strands. When dry they
will retain the corded shape, the horse can
see between them, and their dangle will
scare off the flies.
“Karaway”: If you haven’t a raehet
brace, and want to bore a hole where you
can’t turn an ordinary brace, put a door
knob on the end of the bit and use it as a
gimlet.
“Dai R.” : Instead of throwing your spare
nuts and washers unmethodically into the
toolbox, thread them according to size on a
piece of wire, dip in oil and hang them up.
They’ll keep rustless and easy of action, and
you’ll be abjc to see at a glance the size of
nut or washer you want in a hurry. Same
applies to spanners and other small tools.
“Mug Bushman”: Across gilgai country
all little, knobs and hollows, don’t try to put
all the fencing posts the same height above
the level of the ground. Have longer posts
for the hollows, and stand them so that their
tops are about level with the posts on the
knobs, and bore an extra hole below the
bottom wire. Run an extra wire through
this and through the ordinary bottom wire
hole of the posts on the knobs. Then you’ve
got a fence that follows the contour of the
ground, yet will not pull the posts in the
hollows out.
“Syce”: When loose corrugated-iron
sheets are used for covering haystacks, lay
four logs on the ground the dimensions of
the intended stack, and run lengths of No.
8 wire from end to end —also crosswise.
Each alternate wire should be attached to
the logs at opposite ends or sides, the free
end of each wire to project about a foot
from under the log opposite that to which
it is attached. When the stack is covered
with the iron each loose end is joined with
a sufficient length of wire to go across
stack lengthwise or crosswise. Then a
heavy stone or other weight is attached to
each wire, high up. With the sinking of
the stack the wire will always be kept taut,
and coming from under the side, logs and
stack maintain a pressure which will keep
the iron in its place in any weather.
“Karaway” : If you want a good butcher’s
block, use tallow-wood ( Eucalyptus micro-
corps), which is a very hard and slightly
greasy timber, free of veins, and has the
least tendency of all woods to absorb water
and meat juices. Red-gum and scrub-box
are commonly used, because more convenient
to get, but they are more absorbent than
tallow-wood, and gums wear to a rough sur-
face under the constant use of the chopper.
“Wescocky”: Two summers’ experiments
carried out at Muresk (W.A.) Agricultural
College to test relative values of supple-
mentary feeds for sheep showed that silage
with a small proportion of oats, and wheat,
plus silage, gave tlfe best results. Oaten-
hay proved the least satisfactory. Taking
wheat at 3s. and oats at Is. 6d. a bushel,
silage at 12s. and oaten-hay at £2 a ton, it
was found that the silage-oats rations were
the cheapest, and wheat plus silage the most
expensive. Though all the sheep lost weight
more or less, those receiving a ration of
silage and cereal while feeding on wheat
stubble lost least and their wool tended to
improve.
“Sturt”: A regular old-time demand for
horses faced auctioneer Ross Coles in a
Goldsbrough Mort sale at Riverton (S.A.).
A State-wide crowd turned up, and paid an
average of over £3l for 70 draught-horses.
Several fetched £45 and over, and the top
price was £56.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (21), five years’ sheep and cattle exp.
seeks job on large cattle property in N. Westralia
or Q’land. Refs. —9074.
Cook wants job in Vic. institution or hotel. Refs.
—9OOO.
Old-age pensioner seeks home in exchange for
light duties, anywhere in N.5.W.—9056.
Home, within 00 miles of Melbourne, wanted in
return for services, by gentlewoman, near 60. Refs.
—9055.
Vic. lady will give morning services for good
home in Sydney.—B9B9.
Wanted, man to give 3 to 6 months’ service, cook-
ing and odd jobs, for two holiday campers on island
in Whitsunday Passage (N.Q.). —9047.
Dairyman (Q.) wants dairy on halves, 50 to 20
cows.—9ooB.
To buy “Nicholsen’s Encyclopsdia of Gardening.”
—9073.
Copies of recitations “Old Kate,” “Thunder Jack
in the ’Frisco Cricket Match” and “The Train to
Morrow.”—9os2.
To buy “Sir Nigel,” by Conan Doyle.—9oBl.
To get in touch with suppliers of beeswax, rabbit-
skins and dried fruits suitable for export.—-9041.
Words of poem beginning “Now Mrs. Delaney
was Frinch, and though as rich as the richest.”
—8997.
To buy “The Egoist,” by Meredith. —8987.
To buy Oscar Wilde’s “Salome” with Beardsley
illustrations.—9o26.
To buy a back number of Gibbon’s All the World
Stamp Catalogues; also novels in two or three
volumes, any dates. —9038.
Information Sought.
Is there any scientific basis for a belief
that a finite term can be put to the exist-
ence of the universe, and that it will some
day pass away ?— B9lB.
. Professor Einstein claims that he can
prove mathematically that this world began
from nothing and eventually will shrink to
nothing. Sir Arthur Eddington, Professor
of Astronomy at Cambridge, in a recent
address to the Physical Society said that in
a few thousand million years the earth would
shrink; atoms, animals and planets would
share the same contraction. The velocity of
the earth’s journey round the sun would
grow ever more rapid and the orbit gradu-
ally narrower. As everything grew smaller,
speed would increase. There would finally
be one last microscopic blur of intense agita-
tion, and then nothing. It is not quite clear
that these deductions were meant to apply
to the whole cosmic plan, but Einstein’s
generalisation, logically, would seem to affect
all matter.
Origin and meaning of the word “ Tory ”?—
5387.
The term was first used in 1679, during
the struggle in Parliament due to the intro-
duction of the bill for the exclusion of the
Duke of York from the line of succession,
and was applied by the advocates of the bill
to its opponents as a title of obloquy or con-
tempt. “Tory,” says the “Encyclopaedia
Britannica,” “is derived from the Irish Tar
a Ri, ‘Come, oh king!’ associated with the
creed of the Irish native levies enlisted in
the civil wars on behalf of the loyalist cause ;
the outlaws who fought for James in Ireland
were similarly nicknamed Tories.” The
Tories later became one of the two great
English parties, standing in general for the
authority and power of the King and the
Established Church. The name is now
applied only to a person of extreme conser-
vative views.
How to adjust the breaker contact points
in the electrical system of a Ford new
model-A car? —8884.
The gap when the breaker-arm is raised on
tne highest point of the cam should be .OlSin.
to ,022 in. Check this occasionally. Should
the points become burned or pitted rub them
down squarely on an oilstone. To adjust the
points, remove the distributor-cap rotor and
body. Turn the engine over slowly with
the starting crank until the breaker-arm
rests on one of the four high points of the
cam. Test, and if gap is not correct, loosen
locking screw and turn the contact screw
until the gap is correct. A gauge is used
for making the measurement.
(1) Particulars of the seabird known as
the skua? (2) Its feeding habits? (3)
How did it get its name? —BBB9.
They are gull-like, dark brown birds, with
hooked beaks. Two species visit Australasian
seas : Catharacta lotinbcrgi and tUercorarius
parasiticus. The former—the Egmont hen
to Maorilanders —-comes north in winter,
breeding south towards the Antarctic; the
latter comes in summer, going back during
our winter to breed in the Arctic regions.
(2) A few hover whilst other seabirds fish.
When one rises, down swoops the skua, force-
ing the bird to drop its catch, on to which
the skua darts, taking it before it hits water.
It also eats eggs and smaller birds. (3)
From its cry.
Why cannot a. board be cut by a blade
with a knife-edge when such a blade is used
in the same manner as a saw?— B9l4.
An instrument of this kind will sever
very thin planks, but when it comes to a
board of over a quarter of an inch in thick-
ness the knife edge will jamb, because there
is no displacement of wood to allow the cut-
ting edge to go further.
(1) What causes the common cold? (2)
Is there any evidence to show that the pro-
phylactic administration of vaccine has been
of value in preventing the occurrence of
colds? (3) Arc any such vaccines issued in
Australia? —8915.
(1) There are two theories. One is that it
is caused by a filterable virus, and that the
organisms commonly isolated from noses and
throats of people suffering from a cold are
only secondary invaders. The other is that
those organisms are the cause of the cold.
(2) Yes. L. 8. Dudgeon states that patients
can be protected against common colds by
stock vaccines. (3) The Commonwealth
Serum Laboratories issue suitable vaccines
for prophylactic use.
My cypress-pine trees are being attacked
by borers. Now can ] save them? —8819.
Possibly the weevil (Acsiotes leucurus) is
responsible. The larva} bore in the wood
under the bark and may cause the death of
the entire tree. Only possible treatment is
to go over the tree and dig out the larva 1
located.
Dates and other particulars of fires in'St.
Mary's Cathedral, Sydney? —B94o.
A fire that originated (cause unknown)
near the high altar totally destroyed old St.
Mary’s on the night of June 29, 1865. No
lives were lost, but one old man had a narrow
escape. An organ, costing £2OOO, and the
Archbishop’s crosses and rings were de-
stroyed ; vestments, altar vessels and paint-
ings were mostly saved. These, however,
were burnt in a conflagration that destroyed
the pro-cathedral, a temporary wooden build-
ing, on Jan. 6, 1869.
(1) Under what conditions is a member
of the Royal Australian Navy permitted to
purchase his discharge? (2) Are sailors
who are retired on account of illness or
injuries entitled to compensation, and how
much? (3) What annual and other leaves
do sailors receive ?■ —8998.
(1) Under exceptional conditions in indi-
vidual cases where good reasons can be
shown. The purchase money payable repre-
sents a proportion of the expense incurred
in training him. (2) Men who are
retired from the service on account of
injuries received on duty may receive com-
pensation varying up to a maximum of
three years’ pay, according to circumstances,
and similarly the widows and children of
men who lose their lives on duty, or from
the effects of injury or disease contracted
on duty, may receive compensation amount-
ing to three years’ pay. (3) 42 days’ leave
per annum on full pay, plus travelling time,
is granted when the exigencies of the service
permit, and six months on full pay after 20
years’ service. During periods of leave
an allowance in lieu of rations of Is. 9d. per
diem is paid. Short leave is also given from
the shore establishments and at the various
ports of call when cruising.
In what do the methods of brewing ale and
stout, differ? —8720.
No substantial difference in brewing
methods. Ale is a light, pale beer with small
alcoholic content; stout is a liquor con-
taining more dissolved solids than ale, and a
much higher proportion of alcohol, up to as
much as 6 or 7 per cent.
I have a tall tree-fern stump which is too
big for the position. How can I transplant
it? —B9B4.
Cut about 3ft. off the top and plant it
in soil containing a big percentage of sand.
New fronds will soon appear. On the old
tump hang staghorns and elkhorns, or trail
over it a flowering vine.
There is a powdery,' frosty substance on
the leaves of my roses. Cause and remedy?
—9OOO.
Mildevv fungus. Dust both sides of the
loaves with flowers of sulphur or equal pro-
portions of lime and sulphur in the morning
when the dew is on them. The addition of
potash (or wood ashes) to the soil at the
base of the plants is advisable. Do not
water the roses while the treatment is being-
given.
(1) What is the difference between a ship
and a barque? (2) What is a barquentine?
(3) What is a top-sail schooner? (4) In
a two-masted schooner, which is the main-
mast? (5) What is the forward mast in a
ketch called,? —9005.
(1 -> A ship is a vessel with not less than
three masts, square-rigged on all three. A
barque lias not less than three masts, but is
square-rigged on the fore and main masts
only, and fore and aft rigged on the mizzen.
(2) A barquentine has not less than three
masts, and is square-rigged on the foremast
only. (3) A topsail schooner has usually
three masts, is fore and aft rigged on all
of them, and carries square topsails on the
foremast. (4) and (5) A schooner’s main-
mast is the after mast because it carries
the mainsail, but a ketch carries her main-
mast forward as the mainsail is roughly
amidships, and the mizzen (a much smaller
sail) is aft.
(1) When a woman marries docs she re-
linquish all rights to her maiden name? (2)
Would, a, document signed with her maiden
name be valid? (3) If she wished to assume
her married name after• using her maiden
name would it be necessary for her to adver-
tise the fact? (4) Is a woman entitled to
use her ex-husband’s name after a divorce 9
8917.
(1) Yes, and during her married life the
husband’s surname becomes legally hers.
(2) All documents signed by her should be
in her married name. A signature in her
maiden name, if not absolutely invalid,
might involve doubt and expense in proof
of identity. (3) She cannot jump from one
name to the other at her own sweet will
(4) Legally she reverts t 0 her maiden name.
(1) At the end of a tennis match one of
the two players measured the court and
found that it was incorrectly marked He
demanded that the, match be replayed What
is the position? (2) The same player dur-
ing a rally ran into a roller drawn up against
the stop netting, and as a result failed Jo
return the hall and claimed a let. The
umpire disallowed the claim. Was the um-
pire correct ? —9033.
(1) The match stands. The player has
the privilege of asking that the court be
measured before the match commences. It
he fails to exercise that prerogative he does
so at his own risk. (2) Yes. Objection to
the roller should have been made before the
match started.
After the Armistice various Australian
and M.L. mounted units were engaged in
fighting in Egypt. _ (1) Nature and (2)
range of their activities? (3) Any pitched
hat-ties and how many lives lost? (4) Who
led the forces?. —9035.
(1) Suppressing a rebellion which broke
out in March, 1919. (2) From Upper Egypt
to the Delta. (3) There was no actual
organised fighting, but a few sharp decisive
brushes with the rioters cost the Australians
about 20 casualties. (4) Brig.-Gen. L. C-
Wilson.
(1) What particular waters does the
Murray cod inhabit? (2) Length and weight
of the fish ? —9012.
(1) The whole Murray River system and
the headwaters of some coastal streams of
N. S. Wales and southern Queensland. (2)
Maximum length, about six feet; max.
weight, 1501 b.
What are the most famous Australian
pearls ? —9028.
Most notable is the cluster known as the
Southern Cross, found off Baldwin (W.A.)
in 18S3. It is formed of nine separate
pearls, grouped in the form of a cross 14ih.
long; seven form the shaft, two —not well
balanced —the arms; the individual pearls
are not of unusual size or beauty, and the
gem’s value depends upon its rarity. The
finest pearl yet found in Australian waters
is a drop-shaped gem the size of a sparrow's
egg, weighing 100 grams, which was found
on the W.A. coast in 1917. It was named
Star of the West and valued at £14,000.
I intend motoring from Sydney to Mel-
bourne in May. (1) Is the first half of
May considered a wet or dry period? (21
On how many days have there _ been regis-
tered more than 10 points of rain on May 7
during recent years? —B7B4.
(1) Usually wet. (2) On four occasions
in the last 15 years.
(1) Can a poker-player who finds that
he has more than five cards after the draw
win the pot? (2) Can a player holding
less than five cards win the p0t? —9037
(1) No, even though he bets and is not
seen. The pot in this case is left and re-
played for. (2) He can win the pot if he
bets and is not seen. He cannot, however,
win the pot if his bet is seen, and it is
discovered that he has less than five cards.
Who holds the world's non-fuelling endur-
ance record in aviation, and whose record
ivas broken by the holder? —9009.
Walter Lees and Frederick Brossy. of
Detroit, on May 28, 1931, set a world’s
record of 84 hours 23 minutes for a non-
fuelling endurance flight, using a Diesel
motor. The previous record was 75h. 23m.
by Lucien Brossourot and Emile Rossi,
French fliers, in Algeria, on March 1, 1931.
(1) What constitutes a motor-omnibus
under the N.B.W. Transport Act? (2) /
run a party of six daily to and from the
city (Sydney) in a private-hire car and am
paid by one of the party. How do I stand
under the Act? —9031.
Section 39 («) of the N.S.W. State Trans-
port (Co-ordination) Act 1931 defines a motor-
omnibus as “any motor vehicle, including
a service car or tourist motor vehicle, which
is used for the conveyance of passengers
on the public streets for payment or any
consideration, where the vehicle is fitted,
equipped or constructed so as to seat more
than eight adult persons or where (irres-
pective of the seating capacity of the
vehicle) a separate fare or consideration is
received in respect of each passenger. (2)
Taxi-cabs and private-hire cars which are
equipped so as to seat not more than eight
adult persons, and in respect of which a
single charge or lump sum is received for
an exclusive hiring, are not regarded as
motor-omnibuses.
'How many fatal accidents have occurred
in connection with the building of the Sydney
Harbor Bridge, and how many were caused
by falls?— 8313.
There were 16 fatalities, eight of which
were due to falls.
What is the difference between the account-
ant and the secretary of a company as
regards their respective duties and qualifi-
cations? —8893.
An accountant, strictly speaking, is respon-
sible for the proper keeping of the financial
and/or factory books of a business. He
usually attends to the receipt and payment
of accounts, etc., and comes mostly in con-
tact with people doing business with his
firm. A secretary is more concerned with
the constitutional affairs of a limited liability
company; he is responsible for the proper
keeping of the share-register and the filing
of statutory returns. He should be present
at meetings, and is usually the public officer
for taxation purposes. He may also do the
work of an accountant or manager. Where
there are both an accountant and a secre-
tary in a business, the accountant usually
has much the wider book-keeping experience;
the secretary, on the other hand, is usually
much better qualified as regards knowledge
of company law, conduct at meetings, corres-
pondence, etc.
Best method of treating a linen fishing-
line?— 8902.
To one gallon water put about one handful
of crushed and chopped wattle-bark, and
boil for half an hour. When partly cool,
pour over the line, which should have been
loosely coiled in a wooden or enamel recep-
tacle ; the tan should be the color of strong
tea. Let the line stand in the tan for six
to eight hours, then spread it in the sun
to dry. Repeat the tanning till a good
brown shade is obtained, the first bath
merely producing a light red shade as a rule.
Add fresh bark to the bath, and boil up
again for repeated baths. After using the
line, wash in clean water, and loop up
loosely to dry. Repeat the tanning at the
beginning of each season. The wattles
Acacia dccurrens and A. pycnantha yield
suitable bark.
Brief Answers.
B.B.: (1) gt. Peter’s graveyard, Rich-
mond (N.S.W.). (2) A large collection of
newspaper cuttings regarding her has been assembled
in book form by J. Padley, and is in
the Sydney Public Library... .A.L.8.: Peter
Hopegood’s address is 15 Clifton-crescent, Mount
Lawley, Perth (W.A.). “Austral Pan” was pub-
lished by Imperial Printing Co., 397 Hay-street,
Perth.... E.E.H.: Not advisable to use containers
stamped with other people’s brands or names.
Write Aus. Glass Manufacturers, Waterloo,
Sydney, and Grainger Glass Co., 32 Chalimers-
street, Sydney. No tests are necessary, but
fancy trade names should be registered....
A.A.: The Excise Department takes no exception to
persons rolling cigarettes for their own use....
S. : Woy Woy means deep water ; Tuggerah, cold ;
Kincumber, belonging to an old man; Patonga, a
small wallaby; Wyong, running water; Terrigal,
place of little birds.... F.N.: The National Art
Gallery (Sydney) collection is valued at £157,000.
“Rorke’s Drift,” estimate, £ 20'00 ; “Wedded,” £ 1500 ;
“Queen of Sheba,” £2900 ; “The Widower,” £1975. . . .
T. : “Sterling” in these days merely means the
currency of Britain. It ceased to connote gold in war-
time, when notes were made inconvertible. The use of
the term on cheques is unnecessary. . . .L.M.H.: Can’t
say without inspection. Submit it to a Sydney art-
dealer... .A.L.V.: The result of the inquiry by
Federal officials into the price of petrol is printed
in Parliamentary Paper No. 180, obtainable from the
Govt. Printer, Canberra... .C.L. : Can’t trace a book
on the subject.... 1.D.: Neither ticket had any luck.
.. . .A.A.: Consult “S. M. Herald” files J. 8.:
From this office, Is W. 11.8.: “Radio Telegraphy
and Telephony,” by Duncan and Drew, 795., Angus
and Robertson... .A. B. : The boiler would hold about
13 or 14 tons, but it is inadvisable, for many reasons,
to use it as a silo. You would do better to
enlarge one of the old mining shafts to about
12ft. diameter and Uffe it as a pit silo. .. .
F.W. (Nyngan) : Keep your money in your pocket.
E.M.S.: Mooltan 21,000 tons, Maloja 21,000,
Mongolia 16,504, Moldavia 16,449, Narkunda
16,572, Naldera 16,088, Chitral 15,248, Comorin
15,132, and Cathay 15,121 M.T.: Ruby W. Board’s
“Pupils’ Practice Book of Vowel Sounds,” from
N.S.W. Govt. Printer, Sydney. . . .U.S.: John F. Mann’s
“Eight Months with Dr. Leichhardt” (1888) is worth
at least £l. .. .D.R.K.: The motto of the City of
Adelaide is “Ut prosint omnibus cou.juncti”; “United
for the common weal”. . . .8.L.: Write Will Andrade,
173 Pitt-street, Sydney J. 8.: Write E. Esdaile
and Sons, 42 Hunter-street, Sydney... .J.0’8.: The
hostess should ask the guests what stakes they like
to play for C.L.S.: (1) It isn’t a matter of
process. Dark tobacco is generally the product
from heavy fertile land, the light bright leaf being
grown on light sandy soil. (2) The fees for a
license to manufacture tobacco are: Not exceeding
50001 b., £5; 50001 b. to 10,0001 b., £10; 10,0001 b. to
20,0001 b., £2O ; 500,0d01b. to 1,000,0001 b., £500...
A.J.: (1) Yes. (2) Apply at the Patent Office,
Melbourne. (3) Australian fees amount to £l3.
Other information obtainable from countries con-
cerned. You should employ a patenf attorney....
Val: Ask the Town Clerk... .C.D.: “For Sale”
notices arc not permissible upon the Service Page.
.. . .A.G.S.: Write American Consul, Sydney. .. .
E. 8.: Three drachms tincture of cantharadin, two
dims, spirit of rosemary, 30 grains precipitated
sulphur, 3 drms. glycerine, bay rum to 6oz. Rub
into the scalp once daily and brush well. . . .W.M.:
Sample too small to determine. Send about lib. of
bark to Lecturer-in-charge, Tanning School, Water-
loo. .. .G.E.S.: She should become apprenticed to a
working hairdresser and serve the usual term....
J.R.D.: Siubmit it to any of the following Sydney
amateur theatrical cos.: Independent Theatre Society,
60 King-street; Pickwick Theatre Group, 156 Pitt-
street ; Community Playhouse, TEolian Hall, Pitt-
street ; New Sydney Rep. Soc., 188 a Pitt-street;
Players’ Club, 67 Middle Harbor-road, Lindfield.
.. . .F.M.: To anyone with a knowledge of
mathematics the formula is quite clear. Get the
local schoolmaster to explain. .. .A.D.: Local gov-
ernment authorities could, and probably would, re-
quire the removal of factory premises situated in a
residential area. Refer the matter to the Depart-
ment of Labor and Industry, Sydney. The penalty
for being in occupation of unregistered premises is
£lO. . . .L.B.D. : A. E. Smith, 68 Hunter-street,
Sydney. .. . J.D.: The season for Murray River steam-
boat trips extends from July to November. Vic.
Railways Dept, will furnish full information regard-
ing routes and fares P.K.: Candidates for mem-
bership of the Australian Aero Club (N.S.W.
Section) must be nominated and seconded by
members. Committee can arrange if refer-
ences are provided.... W.W. : The matchbox-
bean grows on a tropical woody climber (Entada
scandens) ; there are from 10 to 30 seeds in the
pods, which are from 2ft. to 4ft. long and 3in. to
4in. wide. .. .E.N.: Robert Howe, editor of the
“Gazette” was stabbed in 1822 by a drunkard, who
thought a friend had a grievance against Howe.
Howe recovered; his assailant was transported....
A. J.S.: Write T. D. J. Leech, Horn Sec. Royal
Aeronautical Society, Madleay House, 16 College-
street, Sydney... .P.J.C.: Get in touch with the
Chief Inspector of Fisheries, Marine Department,
Brisbane... .A. B.: He cannot avoid his contract by
simply clearing out. He is liable for rent for the
balance of the term. Probably the landlord would
consent Ho Ms subletting the premises tot an
approved sub tenant. .. .C.N.: (1) No. He cannot
demand the goods unless he tenders the
exact money for them. You are not required to
give him change out of a Commonwealth note of
higher denomination than will cover the cost of
purchase... .G.G.: The co. cannot sue if the amounts
are not paid monthly, but they will have to be
met eventually... .M.C.: (1) He did not serve in
the war. (2) He was a member of the N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly during the period... .F.C.A.:
Legal adoption requires the consent of the Court.
Write to the Master in Equity, Supreme Court,
Elizabeth-street, Sydney... .S.T.: (1) The duty is
determined by the value of the property and is
payable by the purchaser. (2) Where mortgagor
and mortgagee are residents they are subject to
Moratorium Acts. Point you raise has not been tested.
... . J.A.M.: W’e are not aware of any Sydney co. Try
Inventors’ and Investors’ Alliance, 499 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne. . . .E.J.N.: If using cheese, press it
into the hole on the spring very tightly and sear
the top with a match. Bread or meat should be
tied to the spring firmly, and singed with a match.
Tie the traps with string to something immovable.
... .0.5.A.0.: Officers who were transferred from
the Civil Service of S.A. to the Commonwealth
service are entitled to remain in the service during
their lifetime, subject only to the right of the
Government to dismiss or remove them for causes
specified in the South Australian Acts in operation
at the time of their transfer. Under those Acts
retirement of an officer could be effected without
compensation if he was in excess of requirements.
... . J.L.M.C.: (1) W r rite Australian National Air-
ways, Martin-place, Sydney. (2) From Angus and
Robertson W.T.: No S.M.G.: No allowance
for postage is made to members of Cabinet, but
“O.S.’’ stamps are affixed to any correspondence
posted by them in connection with their official
duties.... (Many others mailed.)


Blue North
By
H. Drake-Brockmen.
Synopsis : In 1876 John Fordyee,
leaving his extravagant and discon-
tented wife Euphemia, sails from Fre-
mantle for the Blue North in search
of pearls and freedom. Getting divers,
including Nguri, from the Gascoyne
River tribe, he reaches Cossack. John
wins the hero-worship of Sophie, Ma
Gannet’s little slavey. Bella, the hand-
some barmaid of Marie's pub, becomes
infatuated with him: they spend the
night together. Meeting again before
he sails he is casual, but she restrains
her passion only because Baia Bud-
son, a brutal pearler whose woman she
is, is present. Fordyce's divers make
a good beginning; he is fishing a bank
when he sees Budson kill a. female
diver. Captain Mac Koo tells him to
forget it. Blaming the girl for For-
dyce's neglect of her, Bella, by insi-
dious suggestion, gets Ma Gannet to
sell Sophie to Baia. John decides to
take Sophie with him on the Sprite.
Budson goes to drag her back, but
Fordyee belittles him before ribald
Cossack. Sophie is rapidly recover-
ing; but when other pearlers sail into
Cygnet Bay she cannot bear to face
them, and 'John sails further north,
to anchor in an uncharted harbor. On
its beautiful shore John confesses his
love to Sophie.
CHAPTER XVIII.
In which John Fordyce and Sophie-
bid farewell to Paradise; and Babbet
declares Captain Budson to be a bird
of ill-omen.
COCK-EYE clouds came drifting over
the ramparts of the hills in crags of
snow for days before John Fordyce
would consent to lend an ear to the mate s
warning that the season was far advanced
and it behoved them to make for the
South. Heat increased with each succeeding
day; now the water of the inlet gleamed
smoothly iridescent except when the spring
tides ruffled its oily surface, and at night t e
Sprite swam in starry skies or rode like a
fairy craft beneath the moon.
John Fordyce thought no more of iree-
d°The daily routine of diving for shell, of
rowing or sailing dinghies between the
islets in search of richer banks, went mono-
tonously forward; but for him the days
flew, long only the hours spent sculling
beneath a hot sun away from Sophie. The
schooner’s tanks were brimming with water
fresh and sweet as rain-water. They had
been filled from a stream which tumbled
down the cliffs, leaping from ledge to ledge
in the “downward smoke” of Sophies Mr.
Tennyson, splashing into a deep basin its
own force had worn in a great flat slab
of stone just above high-water mark. More
than once John and the mate went off to
revel like a pair of schoolboys in a shower-
bath from its crystal spray.
The ship’s company was not long m
guessing a.t anew state of affairs. How
could they fail to notice the change m
Sophie? Asa plant tended by a loving
gardener flowers with grateful extravagance,
so did the girl respond to John’s inter-
pretation of life. No longer did a shadow
of fear lurk in her eyes; slender and tall
she grew, with a delicacy of feature which
was not lost upon John.
“Who are you, Sophie?” he said one day,
spreading her fingers in the palm of his
own hand. It was an idle lovei s Question,
a passing thought that the hands of his
adored were exquisite as those of any
daughter of the race. He was surprised to
see the girl hang her head and draw away
from him.
“I don’t know,” she whispered.
“But you told me Peter was your father?”
exclaimed he, astonished at such an unex-
pected reply.
Sophie shook her head. “He wasn t. He
and his wife adopted me when I was a
baby. I can’t remember his wife, but dear
Peter was like a father to me. Ma told
me he wasn’t. She must have wormed
something out of him. She called me”
John slid a hand over her mouth. “Never
remember anything that harpy told you!”
he ordered. “Did Gannet himself never
tell you anything?”
Sophie shook her head, and drew Johns
hand down to her heart. “He had for-
gotten when I asked him. He could only
say my mother was one of the quality. He
called me a love-child.” f ,
A rush of tenderness for this waif of the
sea made the blood pound in John’s veins.
What matter who she was; sufficient that
fate had seen fit to give her into his keep-
ing. She was his, his, his, he exulted, to
have and to hold for ever.
“And so you are,” he muttered passion-
ntelv “A love-child made for love, Sophie
—for me to love ”
The young girl leant against him and her
heart sang a paean of joy. She felt like a
rose unfolding to the sun; she longed to
tell him the immensity of her emotion, but
knew no words to express such worship.
“I love you, John,” was all she ever
found to say.
The strength of his passion hurt John
Fordyce like a knife-thrust in his side, but
a thrust from a clean shining blade carry-
ing ecstasy in the fever it engendered.
When had he known such depth of feeling
as shook him now? His infatuation for
Euphemia, his wife, had been a boy’s emo-
tion compared with this, a candle-light soon
guttered by the draught of her bitter
tongue. Other women—they had been no
more than flaring torches passing in a
night! Euphemia’s disparagement had all
but killed the finer instincts of a nature
ever eager to give what others expected of
it; the blind adoration of Sophie called for
the best in John, spurring him on towards
that nobility of spirit with which she so
transparently endowed him.
One evening he drew her aside. “I’ve
something to give you,” he smiled. “Open
your hand and shut your eyes.”
Obediently Sophie complied.
But the cry of delight John expected to
greet his gift never came. She shrank
away staring at the gem lying in her palm
as ff it were Medusa’s head.
“Don’t you like it?” he asked, dis-
appointed. “It is quite a fine one, Sophie.
The very first I found. I thought I would
like you to keep it as a—as a wedding
gift,” he finished lamely, for the girl’s
face was not such as to encourage lover’s
speeches.
“I hate pearls,” she answered in a flat
voice.
“Do you really? Then give it back to
me.” He put the gem in his pocket and
walked off. Instantly Sophie was at his
side.
“Don’t be cross with me,” she implored.
“Oh don’t!” John looked down into a wild
face; his beloved Sophie vanished—in her
place cowered the terror-stricken child of
Cossack. “How can I help but hate them,
John?” she wailed. “Baia gave some to
Ma, and offered me one like if I
would stop crying. Oh, I hate them!”
Bitterly he cursed the clumsiness which
had led him to reopen the old wound.
“Stop that, Sophie!” he ordered in the stern
tones which alone quelled her hysterical
reactions. “We have forgotten about that.
And we’ll forget this pearl, too,” he said
extravagantly. “It will bring us no luck
if we keep it.”
With a single gesture he took his hand
from his pocket and tossed the gem over
the side. . .
Sophie cried out in dismay. What
have you done! It was worth a fortune!
“I don’t care if it was,” he replied, putting
his arms round her as she hung over the
rail, staring into the dark water. “There
are as good still in the sea, and that one
was blighted! What do I want with a
fortune? Have I not got the Sprite with
all I ask in the world aboard her?”
Luckily Wilson, who was snoozing in his
hammock, awakened to hear no more than
John’s last words. Had he witnessed the
whole incident and perforce been obliged
to believe the evidence of his eyes, he
might have feared for his master’s reason.
As it was he felt they had philandered
long enough in this land-locked sanctuary
—even should they get no more pearls
that year, the voyage was bound to prove
a financial success.
Sadly John Fordyce took the helm of
his schooner when at last "Wilson’s counsel
prevailed. Into the clutch of the tide must
he swing her, out through gates of rock
into the world beyond.
A question of name had arisen the day
before at supper-time, as they ate the
curried periwinkles and rice with which
Babbet sought to break the monotony of
salt beef and pickled pork.
“We had better mark it Eden on the
chart,” said Wilson slyly, for Sophie was
by this time acknowledged mistress of the
Sprite. , , , . ,
The girl blushed; but John cried no.
There had been a serpent in Eden.
“I wish I could remember the name of
that piece of poetry,” said she.
“Wot’s wrong with Paradise?” inquired
Babbet as he brought in a plate of scones.
And since no one could suggest a bettei
name, Paradise they called it. “But do
not mark it on the chart, Mr. Wilson,
admonished John. “We’ll keep it to our-
selves awhile. And next year we shall
come back.” . , ,
The gaze he bent on Sophie forced her
eyes down to her plate. She gave a sigh
of happiness.
They sailed out from Paradise in the
morning. Sophie stood like a figurehead
in the bows as the Sprite was swept between
the cliffs to the open sea. Amid the flying
spray and deafening roar every head, even
to the dullest among the diving boys, turned
to catch a last glimpse of the blue inlet
and mountains blue beyond.
“Where have you been?” demanded other
pearlers of John ; for almost immediately
they fell in with a small fleet working the
eastern shore of King Sound. “Several of
us have been north, but we never sighted
you!”
In a week’s time he felt he might have
dreamed of the hidden gulf, were it not
for the new bliss of Sophie’s presence, the
wonder of their life together. And some-
times they would take stock of the peails
to remind themselves of Paradise, and
John would promise to buy her a diamond
brooch when they went down to Fremantle
to sell the take.
Sophie was slow to overcome her shyness
amongst the men who visited the Sprite,
although John refused to allow her to hide
any longer. But he would tolerate no
rough speech in her presence, and the men.
knowing her pitiful history, tried theii
utmost to be pleasant. She soon knew
almost every pearler on the coast.
Day by day the fleet in King Sound
diminished. Night after night lightning
streaked the cock-eye clouds. One by one
the schooners sailed round Swan Point for
the South. But John Fordyce lived in a
trance of happiness; his every thought of
Sophie, with no other desire than to please
her. Up here she shared his dream; but
try as she might to banish her fear, she
grew pale and silent at thought of a return
to Cossack. Occasionally the man recalled
his life in the South; and he was filled with
pity for the poor fool who had once tried
to please a wayward wife, a woman who
would never have recognised the beauty
of Sophie in her straight white frocks, her
youth outlined against the azure of the
sea; Sophie, who asked nothing and adored
him with her eyes! The Sea Sprite floated
like an isle of peace where John reigned
king, a Cophetua worshipping the beggar
maiden he had made his queen.
Drawn up the Sound by the luck ever
attending his choice of banks, John pre-
sently left the sparkling seas of the outer
sound to sail on forlorn and mud-red waters
where even the mangroves lining the shore
took on a sickly tint.
Sophie hated the place where they
anchored in five fathoms close to the mouth
of a river. She yearned for clear waters
and sandy beaches; but since John’s merest
wish was her law, she dropped no hint of
her depression, of how the glare struck
upwards from the muddy water with re-
doubled force, and rendered the Sprite,
even when she lay in the shade of the
mainsail, a very purgatory of heat. She
longed for the men to return with a poor
catch. Instead they came home weary but
elated, a fine take lying with stone-dry
water-bags in the bottom of the dinghies.
John was loud in praise of the boys; he
bade Babbet serve an extra ration of the
limejuice and molasses they loved so well,
vowing they could hold their own now with
the best upon the coast —had they not been
diving all day in dirty water to a depth of
thirty feet and doing well? He kissed
away Sophie’s depression—and even those
dreary waters took on deceiving beauty
beneath the light of the moon.
“Someone is on our tracks,” he said next
morning, nodding to a white glint showing
far across the Sound. “We’d better put
our best dives forward. In you get, boys!”
Away sped the dinghies to the bank, a
ridge running out beneath the water from
a wall of mangroves fringing the river’s
mouth. By mid-day a couple of other
pearlers had turned up, and their boats were
soon working near John’s. His dinghy and
Wilson’s lay close together. One moment
John could see only the shining surface of
the Sound, the next a dozen black heads
were bobbing around as his boys rose.
He had barely made a stroke towards
his crew when he was stunned by a blood-
curdling scream.
So dreadful the shriek of agony that for
a second he sat petrified, hands tui’ned to
ice upon the oars. Recovering, he twisted
to look in the direction whence came the
cry.
The water frothed round Wilson’s boat,
and he, grey in the face, was clutching one
of the boys. The other divers swam round
and about, yelling as they splashed to the
gunwale.
For one instant John wondered what in
the world was amiss. The next, a tail
lashing the water to foam sent a shudder
down his spine.
With desperate strength he whipped the
heavy dinghy forward. A crocodile was
among his boys!
Though it felt an hour to John, scarcely
a minute elapsed before he was alongside.
The brute had snapped at Jacko as he
clambered up to the gunwale. The unfor-
tunate little man had been" seized by the
arm, and would have been dragged under
had not Wilson promptly dropped his oars
and caught hold of him.
The ghastly tug-of-war, with Jacko
screaming in torture, ceased for a moment
when the arm in the maw of the reptile
tore off below the elbow; but as Wilson
made a valiant effort to pull the boy into
the boat, the crocodile, returning to the
attack, seized the poor wretch by both legs.
The scaly tail ceased to thrash about; the
monster might have been lying asleep but
for the shine of its tiny pig’s eyes.
John stood up and brought his oar down
on the brute’s snout with all his might.
Jacko screamed and screamed. The sea
turned from clay to crimson. The terrified
divers scrambled panting and sobbing into
the boats—and still the crocodile held on.
John smashed the end of his oar into its
eyes, battered it on the head, but he felt
he might as well have been fighting a man
in armor with a walking-stick.
As though faintly annoyed by the on-
slaught, the great saurian gave an im-
patient jerk. Jacko’s jaiw dropped, his
tongue fell out as a scream ended in a
ghastly rattle. His legs snapped off like
matches. Wilson fell back into the dinghy
with a mangled trunk toppling after him.
The crocodile disappeared.
Sick and shuddering, John bade Wilson
and all the boys clamber into his boat.
They sailed back, a miserable party, towing
all that was mortal of the once cheerful
Jacko in the blood-bespattered boat behind.
•‘We go south to-morrow,” was all John
could say to his shivering boys.
“Get below, Sophie,” he shouted, when to
his dismay he beheld the girl hanging ovei
the taffrail of the schooner.
For once she disobeyed him. Where
ordinarily she would have disappeared with
the utmost docility, she continued to stare
down her face a white blob against the
sky. She ran to his side the moment he
stepped on deck, and the hands she placed
on his arm were trembling, her grey eyes
dilated in horror beneath their fringe oi
John spoke shortly, he was annoyed that
she had witnessed such a sight by disre-
garding his behest.
“It serves you right, Sophie!, I did not
wish you to see. Poor Jacko!”
“Jacko?” she repeated vaguely. JNot
see Jacko? What has Jacko to do with
it?”
John suddenly realised her very visible
distress had nothing to do with the ghastly
corpse lying below in the dinghy, those
wide eyes had stared down upon horror
and seen it not, so intent were they upon
some spectre invisible to others.
“What is the matter?” he demanded.
“Baia!” she whispered and shuddered and
crept closer. . ~ ,
Babbet came up the deck, his ruddy face
streaked a.nd livid. *
“Good God, sir, wot deviltry be this:
Jacko, the pore little feller! Many s the
laugh I’ve ’ad with Jacko! Whod ave
believed such a thing? ’Appy as the day
was long, ’e was, an’ a fair caution tei joke.
It don’t seem natural ter lose ’im that
way, any more than it was ter lose, that
other feller wot died so strange. It’s me
own belief that Budson -
“What about Budson? asked John.
“Sophie just said something about him.
What’s the matter with the pair of you?
“Just take a look across yer shoulder,
sir.”
John turned. Beyond the other boats,
not half a mile from the Sea Sprite, lay a
three-masted schooner.
He swore beneath his breath. What an
unfortunate moment for that man to arrive
on the scene—when he had promised to up
anchor and away from the accursed spot
at once! How Baia would laugh! And
the other fellows, they would all think he
was frightened of the bully.
“Bad, ain’t it, sir? As I was saying, 1 m
beginnin’ ter think ’e’s got a hoodoo on
us Things always go wrong w’en we sights
’im First time a nigger dies for no reason
any white can see; next a nigger gets
chewed just as ’e comes aboard. ’Oo’ll be
the third ter go, that’s wot I’m wondenn ?
“Comes aboard?” cried John. “Did he
dare?”
“He dares all right. W’en me and Missie
was ’a.vin’ a siesta, there bein’ no need ter
keep a lookout fer anything. I was laym
up on the deck ’ere and Missie up in yer
’ammock under the ’awning readm’ one of
her books. ’E shakes me by the shoulder,
sir blarst ’im. ‘Where’s the master?’ ’e
sez, cool as yer like. So I tells ’im and sez
> e ’d better go quick. But he laughs and
asks ter see the mistress, and before I can
stop ’im ’e strides along aft and spots er.
John put his arm tightly round the girl,
who was trembling with suppressed sobs
that tore at his heart.
“Get on,” he said.
“Well, you may say I didn’t know wot
to do fer a moment; but wen ’e talks foul
to ’er and went to lay ’ands on ’er, I goes
below fer a gun. ‘Get out,’ I says, ‘before
I ’as ter drop yer dirty carcase overboard.'
’E sees I mean it, too. And ’e goes. And
that’s all, sir. But I don’t like it, sir, fer
as ’e goes ’e sez ter tell yer that ’e come


TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAYBESTOS
“Silver Edge ”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
Coming
w
e
MARIPOSA and MONTEREY
TWIN SOVEREIGNS OF THE PACIFIC
BRINGING .
Airier, faster service to AMERICA
Over the shortest route to ENGLAND I
■ i
'
e «*iy
• • «
© •
*-w
//■////
ii i iii|L|ii||i iiitmri—
MONTEREY
M4-5A
Through the Heads to the Golden Gate in 18 days . . ,
from Australia to England in 28 days! Over the cool,
fascinating route . . . New Zealand . . . Fiji . . . Samoa
. , . Hawaii . . . California and on through the continent
of wonders, America!
Aboard the "Mariposa" or "Monterey" this voyage will
be a day by day celebration at the shrine of gay,
gracious living! Cool, spacious staterooms, furnished with
individual beds and telephones in both First and Cabin
Class. Nearly all First Class rooms have private or con-
necting bath. Tennis courts . . . outdoor swimming plunges
. . . talkie theatres . . . night club . . . nine decks of
convenience, comfort and diversions at NO INCREASE
IN FARES!
This double triumph in trans-Pacific service begins with
the "Mariposa's" initial departure from Sydney, June 4;'
from Melbourne, June I. The first sailing of the "Mon-
terey" will be from Sydney, July 2;~ from Melbourne,
June 28. Through transportation can be arranged to any
point in America or England.
FARES .. . Sydney to San Francisco
First Class from £73. Cabin Class from £5O/10/-.
FARES . Melbourne to San Francisco
First Class from £75. Cabin Class from £52/10/-.
Write for the interesting particulars.
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge St., Sydney. Tel. B 7981-3.
Agents: DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED
461 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 'Phone: Central 288 [5 Lines)
K
m
BIG ADVERTISERS use
this great paper.... exclusively
The Brisbane “Courier” is read in every corner of Queensland:
read for its authentic news, its authoritative articles, and for its
sound guidance on all public questions. Big advertisers know this:
they invariably use the Brisbane “Courier”—sometimes ex-
clusively. In 1931 the ‘‘Courier” carried at least 160,000 inches
more advertising than its morning rival: it carried almost as
much as two other Brisbane dailies together. Be guided by those
FACTS—largest circulation—widest coverage in city and country.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland's Leading Daily Newspaper—Established 1846.
Representative: ROBERT D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. (B 5007.)
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ter square accounts, and next time ell
the gun, and ’e’ll shoot yer like the dawg,
beggin’ yer pardon sir, that y are, sn.
Babbet did not add that Budson also
told him to compliment his master on the
improvement he had wrought in Sophie.
“She’s a fine wench now,” he had leered,
“though Handsome Jack don’t spend much
on her. She’ll be some looker when she
comes back and gets some fancy gowns.”
“You won’t let him near you?” implored
Sophie. “Oh, up anchor, John. Take me
away. He’ll kill you if he can and then I
shall drown myself. He tried to kiss me.
Oh, promise me we’ll go now!”
“Better let me see him and have it over,”
said John. “He’s only bluffing and I’ll soon
call his bluff.”
He wished he felt as sure as his words
sounded. Mac Koo certainly believed Bud-
son a coward; and had he not with his own
eyes seen him murder a gin? He had
better offer to fight the fellow on the deck
of one of the other ships. Perhaps that
would satisfy him.
But he looked at Sophie and his heart
quailed. His eyes were sharpened now by
love; the demon of fear, blurring her fea-
tures, twisting her sweet lips, staring in-
sanely from her eyes, made his blood run cold.
He may have been overwrought by the
ghastly sight he had just witnessed; at any
rate, soothing Sophie, he decided he could
not torture her by meeting Budson then.
He would have to wait, to hope to en-
counter the man unknown to her, or tarry
till the day came when her unreasoning
terror dulled with the passage of time.
“We’ll go,” he promised. So soon as I see
these fellows. Run below, darling. I promise.”
He turned from Sophie to greet the
masters of other vessels, coming off to in-
quire about the tragedy.
That afternoon they gave decent burial
to Jacko, his poor body wrapped in anew
blanket, a happy thought on the part of
the boss, which made the boys respect him
still more. And John, as he watched the
corpse committed to the sea. and listened
to the wailing of his boys, bitterly regretted-
that he had ever left the sea-coast.
“I bin see plenty ’gater,” the Malay sea-
man smugly informed him. “Lie along banks.”
“Why the devil you no say?” demanded
John angrily.
“Oh, I not think matter. Sometimes
’gater eat’m Malay. No matter!” He
laughed so over it that John wished it
was he who had been killed instead of
Jacko. He was a good seaman, that fellow,
but John had never liked his shifty eye,
whereas Jacko and Nguri, undoubtedly the
pick amongst his boys, were men for all
their black hides.
The Sprite raced away from the other
vessels, but one by one they followed. Not
even an inhuman Budson cared to search
for pearls in blood-stained waters.
“Be we set straight fer Cossack, sir?”
inquired Babbet that evening.
“Yes. We’ll catch the ebb tide in the
morning. Perhaps take a run off to the
Lacepedes for turtles and give the boys a
spell to recover their dash.”
“Well, I ain’t exactly flush fer firewood.
I’ll not last out till Cossack without some
more, sir. Would y’ be able to git some?
There seems a few likely spots back on
the way to Swan Point.”
Accordingly next morning John went off
to gather wood, taking only Nguri and one
other boy to help. At the last moment
Sophie clambered down the rope into the
dancing boat.
“I can’t stay aboard without you,” she
said. “I’m frightened. I can help as much
as the boys.”
John, sick at heart from the disaster of
the previous day, yet felt his pulses bound
as he sat close beside her in the stern and
allowed the boys to sail the dinghy. Into
a tiny cove they sped, where sand ran into
a belt of scrub and low hills rose behind.
Jade-green and crystal sparkled the sea;
overnight some magician might have waved
a wand, so changed the scene from the
sinister anchorage of the day before.
Wood in plenty lay awaiting them above
high-water mark. John and the boys went
off to collect, Sophie staying in the boat
and stacking what they brought with the
skill of an old sailor. She colored in pride
at John’s praise, and he, finding carrying
wood a tedious hot business, lingered to
help—though she told him he was but a
hindrance—leaving the boys to bring down
the last loads.
The girl stood up, laughing, some jest
upon her lips, but her hands flew to her
throat, her open mouth grew taut and spoke
no word.
At the same instant a crash of falling
wood made John turn towards the beach.
Nguri and his mate had dropped their
bundles. They were running towards the
dinghy; as they ran they shouted, and
twisted their heads to look behind into the
hills.
“Behli punjum, Boss,” they called. And
into the hills John looked and beheld a
crowd of wild natives pouring down to the
beach, spears poised in womeras, ready to
let fly.
The boys gained the boat. They leapt
in, they seized the oars without a word of
command and laid on with haste. John
called to Sophie for assistance with the
sail, but he never took his eyes from the
natives on shore. They halted at the
bundles dropped by the boys, and to his
surprise laid down their spears. He won-
dered what that might portend. He did not
trust them, for he had never forgotten
Captain Mac Koo’s warning. He felt thank-
ful for the heavy Colt snug in his belt,
and the cartridges under the stem sheets, but
he cursed himself for allowing Sophie to come.
As he struggled to step the mast, and
the boys pulled with all their .might, a
dozen warriors ran down to the water’s
edge; the remainder squatted on their
haunches beside the spears.
“Look out, John!” screamed Sophie.
In the space of a second the blacks had
dashed into the water; they were along-
side; they had laid hold of the gunwale;
they were forcing the dinghy back to shore!
John found himself staring into a fierce
black face, drawn-back lips curling from
red gums whence two top teeth had been
knocked out; his nostrils were assailed by
the pungent smell of unwashed blackfellow;
he felt the boat rock and quiver as
strong arms rushed her back, heard terror
in the cries of his boys, as they hit about
with the oars.
He dragged out his revolver and pointed
it directly into the grimacing face at his
elbow. Then he jerked the muzzle up an
inch or two and fired over the native’s
head. The report echoed away into the hills.
The effect was magical. The blacks let
go of the boat as though it had turned to
hot iron beneath their hands. They bolted
for the shore. Their mates rose yelling,
running pell-mell to the water’s edge,
brandishing their spears.
“Pull like hell!” John roared to the
boys, but found that Sophie, so quiet
throughout the intense excitement of the
racing seconds, was already hauling on the
sheet. Wind caught the canvas; in less
than a moment they were beyond reach
of the longest spear.
“A close shave, Sophie,” said John,
grinning. “You are a brave girl! I won-
der what they meant to do? Let us
heave to and watch ’em for a bit.”
The natives ran up and down the beach,
yelling and dancing with rage. Some, spear
in hand, tumbled into the water again; one
or two even commenced to swim, but re-
membering the thunder in the white man’s
hand, turned back to shore. They were
magnificent men, many of them six feet
high and broad in the chest, and each one
had two teeth knocked from his upper jaw.
a tribal custom bestowing a most ferocious air.
“All the better to eat us with,” suggested
John, who laughed at Nguri’s suggestion
they most certainly would have been cooked
like dugong steak. “Still, I am glad we
are not called upon to find out. They gave
me a nasty shock; I had no idea they would
try to bring us back. No wonder you turned
pale, Sophie; I could not think what was
the matter.”
The girl hung her head. “It wasn’t the
natives, John. I had just seen something
else. Look beyond the rocks.”
The masts of the Sprite showed up be-
yond a rocky point they had rounded to
reach the cove, and beside them rose three
other masts, black against the sky.
Mr. Wilson met them at the top of the
ladder. _ The mate’s serious face was lined
with worry. For some time past John had
noticed a softening of the crust enclosing
that worthy seaman, due, without a doubt,
to Sophie’s winsome presence, although the
girl confessed herself a little frightened of
his austere and somewhat morose manner.
Now an immense relief flooded his features
at sight of them.
“Glad to see you b?/ck, Mr. Fordyce,”
was all he said. “Captain Budson was here
again.”
All the way home to the schooner Sophie
had implored John not to wait the turn of
the tide, as had been his intention. Now
he bade her leave him whilst he discussed
the affair with the mate. She wqnt, but
with lagging step and backward glance.
“Now, Mr. Wilson, this business must be
brought to a head. Did the man actually
come to the boat again?”
“He did, sir. But I may say he remained
in his dinghy. I informed him you were on
shore. And he immediately set sail to
follow. His mate, two white crew and a
boy were with him.”
“Follow, eh? Strange I did not see him.”
“He tacked east of the point, sir. I
hardly took the liberty of telling him he
was wrong,” answered Wilson drily.
John laughed his easy laugh. “I think
he’ll meet with an even warmer reception
than he’s expecting,” he said, and told the
mate about the natives. “It appears to me,
Mr. Wilson, that we are called upon to go
to the rescue—or at least stand in readiness.
Those binghis meant mischief. Their blood
is up and they’ll spear any white man on
sight. Get the guns into the dinghy, Mr.
Wilson, while I go for my glasses.”
(To he continued next week.)
Mystery.
Listen, oh wind and sea!
Hearken, oh grass and tree!
Out of your inmost selves,
Something has come to me!
Something of joy is mine
Out of the rain and shine,
I have stepped airily,
Drunken on beauty’s wine.
Like an unloosened flood
Surges my chiming blood,
Quickened by salty scents.
Quickened by leaf and bud.
Something has come to me!
Hearken, oh wind and tree!
I have walked secretly,
I have found mystery !
VICTOBIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Three-year-olds were predominant on the
third day of the A.J.C. autumn meeting, as
they were on the first and second days. Yet
Irnmon Ra was beaten out of a place in the
All-Aged Stakes, for which he was 5 to 2 on,
and Middle Watch did not appear. This
Page has never considered Ammon Ra the
champion he is rated in many quarters. In
the spring he had no Phar Lap, Nightmarch
or Amounis to meet, and some of the three-
year-olds he encountered were, for various
reasons, not at their top. With a few more
gallops Johnnie Jason would'certainly have
downed him in the A.J.C. Derby, as Johnnie
did in the Victoria Derby; and. Middle Watch
has definitely proved his master over the St.
Leger distance. In the All-Aged Stakes the
gelding from Maoriland could not get a place,
lie never reached Winooka (33 to 1), wliu
pulled his way to the front (he was ridden
by a small boy) and held on tenaciously
wlien tackled by Viol d’Amour (12 to 1).
The big chestnut from Victoria, however, pre-
vailed ; then Waterline (20 to 1) came with
a rush on the outside and was only beaten
a head, Winooka being half a neck away.
Ammon Ra and Chatham followed.
Viol d’Amour’s showing was a great'lm-
provement on his poor sixth in the Biragan-
bil Handicap, won by Chatham, on the
Monday; but people are becoming resigned
to sudden improvements and’unexpected com-
missions. Anyhow, the Violoncello colt,
Chatham and Winooka (these sons of Wind-
bag are pretty sure to improve) will give
the Amnion Ra people a run for their money
over any distance up to nine furlongs in
the spring.
Version (The Verderer —Bonny Sox) was
another three-year-old to distinguish him-
self, though not in such select company.
He cleared out with the first division of the
Coogee Handicap, for which he was a 10-
to-1 chance, and two other horses of his
age, Ranchero (7 to 1) and Le Legion (5
to 11. followed him home. Version comes
from Newcastle, where the punters are very
Bert: u \ take this <same very
Seriously now ; c^eßt"
GIERT •ITS THE ONLV WAV TO BECOME
PROFICIENT*
Bert : *Mot\ce anv improvement
SINCE LAST TIME WE PLAYED ?"
GERT '/ Vouve HMJTbUR clubs
HPWEINT vou *■”
loyal to their horses. Lightning March was
favorite for this race, but he is only a little
fellow, and the Sst. 111 b. perhaps anchored
him; though with 71b. less in the second
division of the Final Handicap he did little
better. Version, 5 to 1 this time (Waterline
was favorite at twos), made a great effort to
win the first division of the Final Handicap.
Another three-year-old, Phlare (20 to 1).
encompassed his defeat, but it was only by
half a head; Roley (20 to 1) was a fail-
third and Waterline, who did not produce
the finishing run that electrified watchers
of the All-Aged Stakes, was fourth.
Referring in B. 23/3/’32 to the three-
year-olds engaged at the meeting this Page
characterised them as “a particularly fine
lot,” adding that it expected them to show
themselves “superior to the older horses in
w.f.a. and handicap races alike.” They cer-
tainly donkey-licked the older brigade in the
handicap events for all ages, and with the
tote paying dividends which dwarfed the
prices obtainable in the ring, followers of
three-year-olds must have had a very pro-
fitable meeting, though, taking operations in
general, the bookmakers were on top each
day. In the Rous Handicap on {Saturday,
as in the Coogee Handicap, first division, on
Wednesday, three-year-olds, Golden Gate,
Gloriole and Bold Boy, had the finish to
themselves; and though there was an Sst.
minimum, the time for seven furlongs was
Train. 24-lsec. Golden Gate’s s.o. div. for
10s. was £6 10s.; place divs.. same stake,
were £2 Is. 6d.. £4 19s. and £4 2s. respec-
tively. Tote backers of Phlare in her divi-
sion of the Final Handicap collected £l4
iSs. and £3 9s. for 10s. each way; Roley. a
winner on the first day, returned £3 15s. 6d.
for 10s.
Ivuvera did w-hat Ammon Ra failed to
do last season —won both Sires’ Produce
Stakes and Champagne Stakes. He hasn’t
been defeated in his last four starts, and
he is unquestionably a fine advertisement for
his sire. Brazen. A massive, mettlesome
brown colt, he is certainly in a class of his
own among the two-year-olds, but young-
sters of his build and disposition are apt
to disappoint when tried as stayers.
An old stager in Tangible, by Lilyveil—
Coolan Dhu. made a successful return to
the business in the City Handicap on the
Wednesday. His sire won the Sydney Cup
in 1914, his full brother, Lilypond, won it
in 3.925, and Tangible himself was second to
Winalot four years ago. But he had shown
no glimpse of his old form, so he _ was
neglected by all but a few speckers. Ridden
by Lightfoot, the very promising boy whose
clever joekeyship contributed to Jacko’s vic-
tory in the Doncaster, Tangible led nearly
all the way, and the tote got a great adver-
tisement out of his triumph—divs. for 10s.
were £5B 16s. and £6 19s. 6d. The price m
the ring was returned at 100 to 3, but a lot
of paddock bookmakers, so called, wouldn t
lay 100 to 3 against a camel racing Phar
Lap. Tangible, again ridden by Lightfoot,
nearly brought off another victory in the
Dangar Handicap on Saturday, but Chide (8
to 1), relishing the change from w.f.a. com-
pany, proved just a bit too good for him at a
mile and a half—the City Handicap was
a furlong further. Webster has a better
horse than Tangible in his stable, the Spear-
head mare Agincourt. Fourth in the Sydney
Cup, Agincourt. was kept for the last race
of the meeting. A commission for Pentheus
enabled supporters of the stable to get up
to tens for their money, and the mare, with
Lightfoot on top, won “in a walk” from
Pentheus and Intrepid, who should be useful
in suburban company.
After the Cumberland Stakes people who
had pronounced Johnnie Jason a very fluky
Sydney Cup winner were not so sure.
Johnnie came out against Nightmarch and
Veilmond in the Stakes (meeting the latter
on 81b. worse than Cup terms), kept beside
Nightmarch most of the way—mud the thing
was run at a sound pace, the 14 furlongs
being traversed in 2min. 59Jsec. —and
finished only a length behind him after a
stout finish, Veilmond separating _ them.
Johnnie Jason did not take part in the
A.J.C. Plate on Saturday, in which Veil-
mond (9 to 4) turned the tables on Night-
march, who was the last to finish, the last
of four. People remembered —too late —
that he had failed badly in the Plate two
years before, being distanced by Phar Lap
and hard put to it to head the ancient
Donald. He has now taken his farewell of
the turf and will go to the stud.
* * * #
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Maiden Handicap: Rowan or Wawina;
next, Moratorium.
Glenfield Handicap: Rory O’More or
Ben ; next. Rodondo.
Farm Novice: Rowan or Wawina; next,
Circus Star.
April Handicap: Bawn-na-Glas; next,
Ethics.
Minto Handicap: Rorv O’More or Ran-
chero ; next, Black Douglas.
Williamstown punters have won a lot of
money lately try backing horses under the
care of the local trainer Dick Sinclair, who
prepared Madstar for his Australian Cup
victory, and Dominant for his successful
sequence. Sinclair works his team within a
stone’s-throw of the site of James Redfearn’s
dismantled stables, where Etienne de Mestre
quartered his string from Randwick in the
days of Archer and later celebrities.
India's Hope (Seaford Trial Hurdle) and
Dominant scored for Sinclair at _ the last
Williamstown meeting, and Devonie, second
in the Maiden Two-year-old, might have won
if she had not hung out badly coming to
the home turn. With Dominant (V.R.C.
Bourke Handicap and Leonard Stakes and
Williamstown Easter Stakes) Sinclair has
done splendidly for Joseph Fell and Norman
Robinson, of the V.A.T.C. committee, who
now own the Saltash gelding, and the N.S.W.
studowner who bought Saltash cheap after
Strephon’s failures in England must be now
feeding that he got a bargain.
There were no races in Melbourne on
Satprday. Rain had fallen during the pre-
vious night, and was still coming down in
the morning, so the Epsom people decided
not to go on with their fixture. Then the
weather cleared up, and it was a fine after-
noon. Clubs which operate the Flemington,
Caulfield, Williamstown and Moonee Valley
courses race on a moderately wet day; but
Epsom is a proprietary concern, and the
management shuns financial risk.
At Mentone on the Wednesday it was so
warm that McShortodds hoisted his um-
brella. Tindall had a nag in the Two-year-
old Handicap—Ghetowaik, a gelding by
Manfred from Gay Element, by Comedy
King from a mare of the Sappho family.
Greenlaw (7 to 4), who, of course, is by
Greenstead, broke a long run of bad luck
for Burbidge by winning; but if the finish-
ing run of .Chetowaik (8 to 1) had been un-
wound a little earlier, the placings would
have been reversed.
It was only a division of the Mentone
Purse that Nokila won, but this handsome
four-year-old stallion promises to develop into
a very useful performer. He is trained by
.Tames Truskett for R. T. Lane.
$ # #
For Ascot (Vic.) on Saturday:—
Juvenile Handicap: Chetowaik; next,
Admiral Drake.
Ascot £500: King Mart; next, Karomin.
“Middleham”: One interesting result of
Phar Lap’s win in Mexico was the declara-
tion of the Englishman who owned his sire,
Night Raid, arid sold him to go to Maoriland
for a so.ng, that he could not believe that
his one-time property could sire a horse like
Phar Lap. There seems to be no mystery
about it, but the doubter is an acknowledged
British breeding expert. There have been
many analogous cases in the past. Best
known, perhaps, is the bitter dispute over
Bend Or, winner of the 1880 Derby. Many
held that he was really Tadcaster, bred at
the same stud, and that the pair had been
mixed in the transfer to Newmarket. The
Jockey Club finally decided in Bend Or’s
favor. There is additional interest in the
fact that Bend Or sired Radium, one of
Phar Lap’s grandsires, when he was 25.
Another mystery was the breeding of'Thor-
manby, the Yorkshire horse that won the
Derby for John Merry in 1860. His dam
was Alice Hawthorn, but no one knows to
this day whether his sire was Melbourne or
Windhound, and lie is credited to both in
the studbook and pedigrees.
* * * *
“Knavesmire” : Racing is probably respon-
sible for more odd developments than any
other sport. One such cropped up the other
day in England when a Mrs. Russell at her
demise left all her property to her daughter,
Mrs. Saunders, on condition that she gave
up racing. Discussing the matter with the
usual press fiend, the legatee said she had
maintained racing stables in India at the
same time as in England. In consequence of
the maternal will, she had cabled to India
for her string there to be sold, while she
had disposed of 11 others of her English
team. She couldn’t understand her mother’s
objection to racing, for mother had once
bought a horse from her and won with it
ne'xt day. A sporting family, evidently, but
I should say the late dowager was on the
right track when she made her will.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Welterweight title-holder Russ Critcher
(10.44) fought his most aggressive fight to
date against Jack Carroll (IO.Sf) at Leich-
hardt last but was outboxed and lost
on points. An accidental head-bump knocked
Carroll over in the ninth round, and Critcher
scored well for a while after that. The
last four rounds saw Carroll land both
hands continually, but many hoots were
heard when he was crowned. Carroll’s left
hand was broken in the eighth round, and
this injury will keep him out of action for
six weeks at least. Carroll was ljlb. above
welterweight, so Critcher’s championship still
stands.
* * * *
Russian Tom Lurich (14.2) dropped Alex.
Lundyn (13.10) with as pretty a punch as
could be seen at any boxing contest, and
won Saturday’s Leichhardt Stadium “wrest-
ling” match by two falls to one. More
spectacular showmanship than usual was
seen before Lurich’s figure-four body-scissors
scored a fall in the second round. Lundyn
evened in the fourth, but was knocked un-
conscious with a right swing to the
jaw before being slammed for the deciding
fall.
“Huon” : Tasmania is confident it has the
Australian sculling championship in the bag,
following on a fine performance by K.
Beauchamp, who won the State title on the
Derwent the other day. Though not troubled
by the opposition, Beauchamp covered the
21 miles in 14min. 53sec., very good going,
and faster than Bobby Pearce’s best over
the same course. Beauchamp will have two
hot men to beat in the Australian event at
Melbourne in the Victorian Peppier and
Cornstalk H. Turner. At the .same time,
Tassy is due for a score in this race, the
Apple Islanders’ last victory being when
G. A; Westbrook won at Launceston in
1921. Of the 33 races for the title, Tassy
has won eight.
* * * *
“Touch” : Mrs. W. Chambers, who is to
chaperon the women competitors from Aus-
tralia at the Olympic Games, is the natural
choice for the position. Secretary of the
N.S.W. Women’s Amateur Swimming Asso-
tion for the last 20 years, she has been a
mighty fighter for women’s swimming
throughout Australia, and the pinnacle on
which the sport stands to-day is largely due
to her unswerving determination and organ-
ising capacity. There was a heavy entry for
the job, some coming from as far away as
Maoriland.
5* * * *
“Hotham” : G. Vockler, a one-time Sydney
swimmer, broke a couple of long-standing
swimming records in Melbourne city baths
last week. He covered 300 yards free
style, in 3min. 31 2-ss.ee,, two-fifths of a
second better than the late Barney Kieran’s
Australian record made 27 years ago. Going
on to the quarter-mile, he established a new
Victorian standard for that, with smin.
24 l-ssec. —2 l-ssec. faster than Beaure-
paire’s time, made in 1910.
“Shrewsbury” : Though the recent Oxford-
Cambridge boatrace was the first in the history
of the race in which an Australian stroked
the winning crew, other Antipodeans have
figured in one boat or the other on occasion.
Rhodes scholars from the Dominions have
filled places in more than one Oxford crew,
but “colonials” have not been common in the
Camside boats. One of the first the writer can
recall was Colin Bell, a Queensland member
of a famous rowing family, most of whom
learned the game at Eton before going up to
the Light Blue University. The latest race
was notable in other respects. Owing to
repairs to Putney Bridge, the course had to
be shortened by about a quarter of a mile.
In its time the event has seen several
changes of the kind. For several years in
mid-Victorian days the race was from West-
minster to Putney. Later it was rowed from
Mortlake to Putney, in the opposite direc-
tion to that in vogue to-day.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The outstanding figure of
the cricket season now on its last legs is
unquestionably Clarrie Grimmett. The South
Australian’s consistency with the ball is
marvellous, and be seems to bowl better as
time goes on, a fact which promises trouble
in store for the Englishmen next season. In
the past three seasons his tally of wickets in
first-class cricket has been 74, 76, and 77,
227 wickets at an average of 21.3 runs.
If O’Reilly and Fleetwood Smith reproduce
the good form they have shown this season,
the little googly expert will have a lot more
assistance in the big games with England
than he has ha'd for some time past.
% * * *
“W. Horse”: Australians will hold Lord
Harris in special remembrance as captain of
the first English team to meet Australia on
British soil. That was at the Oval in 1880,
when England beat Billy Murdoch’s men by
five wickets. The late lord brought a side to
Australia in 1870, and lost the single Test at
Melbourne by 10 wickets. It was on that
tour that the famous riot occurred at Sydney
Cricket Ground; the mob rushed the playing
area and the fielding Englishmen, headed
by that great Rugby three-quarter A. N.
Hornby, had to fight their way to the
pavilion.
* * * *
“Subiaeo”: Ernest Bromley, the young
Westralian batsman, who has been perform-
ing so notably in Groperland of late, has
refused the offer of an engagement by Wor-
cester county, which wanted to sign him
up as a professional for a two years’ term.
Bromley is keen on working his way into
Test-match company, and will make a bid
for it when the Englishmen are next here.
His chance is not a rosy one. Outside
N.S.W. and Victoria, and in a lesser degree
South Australia, a player must border on
the miraculous before be is given a chance.
* * * *
“Mat”: John Scott, who has held down
the presidency of the N.S.W. Bowling Asso-
ciation for six years, is retiring on June
30. The North Shoreman has been an inde-
fatigable chief, and his propensity for going
out back and planting bowling clubs where
none grew before has done a lot to popu-
larise the game outside the N.S.W. metro-
polis. H'e has acquired additional merit from
the fact that never once in his presidential
career has he referred to Sir Francis Drake
and the mythical game on Plymouth Hoe, a
thing that cannot be said of some of his pre-
decessors. His pet antipathy is the move-
ment now gaining ground among N.S. W.
bowlers to allow expenses to representative
teams touring other States, a practice which
he considers amounts to sheer professional-
ism. - *
“Muffler”: South Australia maintains its
stranglehold on the Australian motor-boat
championship. This year’s race was won by
W. Macfarlane’s Tilmerie Two, which col-
lected two of the three heats, another local
boat, Vixen Two, winning the first.
Queensland took third place with Golden
Slipper in spite of a temporary breakdown.
The Northerners made amends by collecting
both the B- and C-class championships, the
winner of the latter, Mistree, cutting out
the five-mile run round a cramped course in
the good time of Bmin. 39sec.
* * * *
“Whizz”: France, which was one of the
earlier competitors in the battle for motor-
speed records, is to come back again into
the game after an absence of some years.
One Stapp has announced the completion ot
a giant car in Paris which he intends to
take to Daytona in May to attack Malcolm
Campbell’s record of 253.968 m.p.h. The
job, which has taken two years to complete,
has three 800-h.p. Jupiter engines, which are
fitted into the rear of the car. In the
bonnet is a 60-h.p. engine for starting up
the driving units. Stapp, who designed and
built his car himself, is satisfied his bantling
will easily top 300 m.p.h., but he is under-
taking a scries of test runs on La Baule
sands before departing for America. Norman
Smith, still waiting for a smooth beach m
Maoriland, may yet find the Frenchman get
in ahead of him, just as Malcolm Campbell
did.


rag
> j
L' '
21/-
Rugs
Now at
MURDOCHS
Indications point to it being a
“nippy” Winter. Now’s the
time to couple comfort and
economy with a Murdoch
Rug! All-Wool Rugs, with
overcheck designs on light or
dark grounds; dimensions,
60 x 80 inches; with fringed
ends.
Usually 21/-
Now
42/6 Merino
Rugs
30/-
Pure Merino Rugs with a
saving of 12/6! Assorted
overcheck designs and deep
fringe.
Cosy winter-weight
Blankets
You can defy the severest
Winter with Murdoch
Blankets.
Ex. Lge.
Single Bed. Bed. Dbl. Bed. Dbl. Bed.
54 x7B 63 xBl 72 x9O 81 x 99
Dark or Silver Grey—
-21/6 27/6 33/6 41/6
White Wool Blankets
22/9 29/6 34/6 44/6
Superior Quality White Wool
29/6 34/11 44/6 54/-
We Pay Freight.
Kindly address all letters to
Desk “R.”
Murdochs Ltd
SYDNEY
Footbrawl
“Hotham”: The V.F.L., which has a repu-
tation for pinching players from country clubs
and those in other States, is not so keen
on letting its own lambs stray from the
fold G Strang, a Richmond (Vic.) star,
recentlv applied for a clearance to Tasmania,
where 'he had been offered a job at £lO
a week as skipper and coach of the New
Town club Richmond fought the applica-
tion tooth and nail, stating it had spent a
lot of money on the Strang family, and had
obtained only one year of toil in the foot-
ball field from the applicant. Further it
was urged that if transfers on such terms
were permitted the bottom would be knocked
out of tlie Coulter rule, which enjoins a
payment of £3 a week to Victorian League
players, and all the Victorian cracks would
migrate elsewhere. The clearance was refused.
* * * *
“Richmond”: K. Hough, the Westralian
Australian-rules footballer, whose transfer
from Perth to South Melbourne last season
nearly led to civil war between Victoria and
Westralia, was to have made the attempt to
cross over again this year—it will be remem-
bered that his last attempt failed owing to
the dogged refusal of the Westralian foot-
ball authorities to grant him a transfer.
However, the hopes of “Sowths” have again
been dashed, for the much-desired one has
notified them that he will remain in Groper-
land after all. . There is, nevertheless, a
strong impression in South Melbourne that
some funny business is toward and that
Hough is being held, chained in a dungeon
or something of the kind, by tlie wild men of
the West.
* ❖ ❖ ffi
“Rochdale” : The English Northern Union
team due in Australia shortly is a formid-
able one on last season’s performances,
though a fair sprinkling of oldsters are in-
cluded. Two teams have been chosen, 14
backs and 12 forwards. Fullback Sullivan
and front-row forward Thompson are mak-
ing their third trij) to Australia. Five of
the men came in 1928: Ellaby, the
wing-threequarter, Byrn Evans the serum-
half, and Williams, Horton and Fildes, for-
wards. The side is particularly strong in
the forwards, and the outlook is not rosy for
Australian exponents of the game, who seem
to have lost their punch in this respect dur-
ing the past two or three seasons.
* * # *
“Old Q.”: The .Queensland Rugby League
got a shock the other day when one of the
leading clubs in the State, the Ipswich Star-
lights, went over to the Rugby Union.
The reason given is that the players object
to Sunday football, which is befitting the
inhabitants of a spot tliat has for long been
known in Queensland as the Holy City. This
will give the Union its first important foot-
hold in Ipswich for some years. In days
gone by Ipswich always boasted teams of
good quality, notably the Athenians and the
Rangers. These used to play in the metro-
politan competitions, the various clubs en-
gaged travelling up and down the 30 miles
between Ipswich and Brisbane as occasion
required.
❖ * ❖ ❖
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
season opens on April 16 and will switch on
to the All Blacks two months later, the
opening match taking place between the
State and the visitors in Sydney on June 25.
This year, the Bledisloe, Cup, won for the
first time by the Maorilanders at Wellington
last season, will go to the victors in the
three Tests. N.S.W. plays its first game
with Queensland in Brisbane on May 14,
and the Maroons will open in Sydney on
August 13. Victoria will also play in Syd-
ney on May 21, and all these matches will
be taken as trials for the all-important trip
to. South Africa next season. Westralia
will be represented in the final trials for the
first time, the W.A. Union having accepted
an invitation to send one player over to
Sydney at the expense of tlie Australian
authorities.
Racquet and Bawl
“Let”: The grading list of the N.S.W.
tennis authorities at tin' end of the season
provides some surprises. Crawford, of course,
is at the head, but not everyone will agree
that Sproule should be second, though he
has been picked for the Davis Cup side.
Perhaps the biggest surprise is the putting
of young McGrath at the bottom of the list.
There are not many of those placed ahead
of him outside Crawford who would care
to lay even a shade of odds on themselves if
stacked up against the Sydney schoolboy.
He, by the way, leaves Sydney by the Strath-
aird for Europe on May 8, and should bene-
fit by the tennis court on this ship. In the
meantime the youngster is to be yanked
across the Continent ro show at Perth in
mid-April.
* * * *
“Milton” : The testimonial tennis tourna-
ment to C. B. St. John in Brisbane (B.
16/3/’32) featured some unusual matches.
One was a mixed doubles game purporting to
portray tennis as it was played in 1870 —-
some years, by the way, before the game was
invented. Two weirdly-dressed couples
played with the lop-sided rackets which were
in vogue at the beginning of the sport, but
erred in using modern balls instead of the
uncovered rubber contraptions which figured
in the game of the long ago. The other show
purported to exhibit tennis as it will be played
in 1970, and naturally no one was in a posi-
tion to criticise the accuracy of this por-
trayal. The women players in this event
wore shirts and shorts, and as a result the
turn was even more appreciated than the
other.
* * * *
“Top Spin”; The International Tennis
Association has fixed the dates for the various
Davis Cup rounds, that for the first being
May 10. The European zone final is set
down for July 18, and the inter-zone final for
July 22—both commencing dates. The chal-
tenge round begins on July 22. The final in
the North American zone, in which Aus-
tralia will figure, will be held at Phila-
delplua on May 27-28-30, the winner playing
the leaders in the South American zone the
following week. North America includes
Canada, Mexico and Cuba in addition to
America and Australia, while Brazil, Chile
and Paraguay will fight it out in South
America.
“Rev. Knucklebone” : Australia’s much dis-
cussed Davis Gup team took its departure
for America last week, but not without pre-
liminary alarums and excursions. Harry
Hopman, aggrieved at having to sign an
agreement not to write for the press, refused
to do so on the ground that Mrs. Crawford,
travelling as an unofficial member of the
team, was to be allowed to write. Henry
suddenly changed his mind and signed on the
dotted line. There was a rumor abroad that
the Australian tennis heads had warned the
emergency player, Turnbull, of South Aus-
tralia, to get his flannels home from the
laundry in case he was wanted at the last
moment, but whether this influenced Hop-
man’s change of front is not divulged.
The Nineteenth Hole
“The MclJaggis”: An unusual golfing inci-
dent is reported from Britain. A golfer and
his caddie were killed by lightning, the un-
fortunate man’s opponent being also knocked
down and stunned, with the result that he
had to be removed from the links. _ The
sad happening raises an interesting point in
golf law. The respective scores of the play-
ers are Hot stated, but even if they were the
legal position would be a matter for argu-
ment. In the writer’s opinion, the matter
is governed by rule 2 of the special rules
for stroke competitions. This states very
definitely that players having started “shall
not discontinue play on account of bad
weather or for any other reason whatever.”
The penalty for breach of this rule is dis-
qualification of all parties concerned, which
seems to settle the question satisfactorily.
* * * *
“Rus” : The Easter golf carnival at Dubbo
drew a big entry of N.S.W. players, the pro-
fessional element being particularly well re-
presented. The hero of the occasion was
the Sydney professional Sam Richardson,
who brought off a profitable double. The
first event, the Cameron Cup, was an open
one and , Richardson annexed this with
rounds of 70 and 72.; then he took
the Western District championship, and
with it the Macquarie Cup, a £25 purse and
a gold watch for the best handicap score. His
two rounds of 68 and 70 were course records,
the previous best being 72. This was also
beaten by Tommy Howard, who returned a
card of 70, 70, to fill second place.
QUITE LIKELY!
HOPELESS GOLFER (after ploughing up the green): “I suppose
the chap who looks after this green will know a beginner
has been here.”
CADDIE: “Oh, no. ’E'll think they’re bandicoot 'oles!”
“Shirley” : After giving it a miss last year-
on account of the hard times, Maoriland
golfers have decided to defend the Kirk-Win-
deyer Cup, which they wtested from a
N.S.W. side at Christchurch in 1930. Of the
four matches played, beginning in 1927, M.L.
and N.S.W. have each won two. Victoria
has not been a regular competitor, but
threatens to send over a powerful team this
time. The match will be played on the Royal
Sydney course at Rose Bay. where Maoriland
won the initial game in 1927, the opening
date being between June 11 and 18.
* * * *
“Brasscy”: Sydney will lose one of the
best of its amateur golfers when S. A. Keane
goes north to Brisbane, where he intends to
dig in. A fine all-round player, he has not
been able to land an important singles title,
though he was narrowly beaten by Tas-
manian Len Nettlefold for the Australian
amateur championship in 1927, and was in
the semi-finals last year when he was outed
by G; Thompson. Ivo Whitton also beat him
for the N.S.W. amateur title in 1929. In
foursomes, Keane has done much better. With
Hattersley, he won the Australian title in
1930, and with G. Thompson is the holder of
the N.S.W. championship. He has also
figured for N.S.W. in the Windeyer Cup
games.
* * Sfe $
“Divot Digger”: The N.S.W. amateur golf
championships, which were to have been held
this year on the Australian club’s course at
Kensington, will be played on the Royal
Sydney links at Rose Bay following on the
destruction of the Australian body’s club-
house by fire. The fight for the title this
year promises to be unusually interesting.
Apart from the Maorilanders over here on
Windeyer Cup business. Victoria is sending
a strong lot, including Williams and Whit-
ton. The star turn of the show should be
the meeting of young Jim Ferrier, holder of
the State amateur championship, and his
equally youthful rival Williams, Australian
and Victorian title-holder.
Car and Cycle
“Differential”: Though it is early in the
season, established motor records overseas
are already being upset. The latest to go was
the small-car record of 137.58 m.p.h. over
a flying lap put up last year by Kaye Don.
The new figures of 137.96 m.p.h. were hoisted
by Sir Henry Birkin. Driving a Bentley
Four, he covered the lap in 72 l-ssec. Eng-
lish designers, who were the first to evolve
the small car proper, seem to be keeping as
far ahead of foreign competitors in the
matter of speed, both with the babies and the
big ’uns, as they have done in aero sprinting.
* ❖ * sj«
“Disc Clutch”: With the British motor
racing season well under way, there is in-
terest in the announcement that Brooklands,
where the track has been relaid and gener-
ally brought up to date, is staging two new
races which will be annual affairs. _ One is
a 1000-mile run for light cars, which may
be stripped to racing trim, but must be locked
up for the night after the first 12 hours’ spin,
no repairs being permitted. The second in-
novation will be an international scratch
race. It will comprise four heats run over
50 miles with a final of 100 miles. Victory
goes to the car completing the course at
the highest speed, and since most of the
European cracks are expected to be driving,
there should be some hair-raising runs.
* * * *
“Plug”: Rc “Benzine’s” query, “Anyone
know when the first motor-cycle was in-
vented?” (B. 3/2/’32). Gottlieb Daimler
was responsible, he having actually ridden
a quaint contraption on the roads in Ger-
many in ISBS. The first machine was put
together in the workshop of the Otto Gas
Engine Go., of which Daimler was a direc-
tor. It was a four-stroke engine with hot
tube ignition, and was only partly success-
ful. In the following year there appeared
Daimler’s two-cylinder invention, this per-
forming fairly well. It was not until 1894
that motor-cycle design was stabilised into
something like modern construction. In
that year De Dion brought forth his first
petrol-driven tricycle, which we might regard
as the first modern motor-cycle ever produced.
Miscellaneous
“Backwoodsman”: The Australian Bowl-
ing Council, which met in Sydney during the
De Groot festivities, has decided to cancel
the invitation to the British Bowling Asso-
ciation, which was to have sent out a team
next September. In some ways the decision
is to be commended. The Australian body,
first of its kind to do anything of the sort,
recently lacerated the feelings of the older
generation of players by insisting that all
bowls he made to conform to a fixed
standard. The re-
sult was that many
players of emi-
nence, used to
using bowls adapt-
ed to their special
style of play, found
that after their
woods had been in-
spected and altered
by the authorities
their names, in-
stead of being writ-
ten in letters of
gold in the club
annals, were paint-
ed in plain mud, so
to speak. English
bowlers suffer no
such trammels, but
play with any sort
of bowl they like,
so long as it dimly
conforms to the
idea of a wood. To
these insistence on
inspection and
alteration would be
infuriating—and an
infuriated bowler is
as dangerous as a
ferocious rabbit.
* *
“Bias”: E. J.
Beard, manager of
the Queensland
bowling contingent
which invaded
Sydney for the Bridge carnival, added
his quota to the history of bowls during his
visit when he presented ex-M.H.R. Wally
Marks with the game in which the two were
engaged after Beard himself was home and
dried to all appearance. Beard had the
match won with one bowl to play. Instead
of ditphing his shot he made a characteris-
tically sportsmanlike attempt to improve his
lie. In doing so he took the jack from his
own woods and laid it comfortably alongside
those of his opponent, who thus emerged the
winner. “Ted” is one of Queensland’s lead-
ing accountants. In the days before bowls
claimed him, he was a star Rugby referee,
officiating for some years in all big matches
in the Bananaland capital. Among his other
vices he grows orchids, of which he is a
notable collector.
* * * *
“Ace” : The Australian handball champion-
ship, played for in Melbourne recently, was
easily retained by the Victorians. In the
inter-State matches, the locals outed South
Australia and N.S.W., while the singles were
taken by G. Lewis. The doubles went to
Victoria, represented by Maomahon and
Jeacle, and T. Kelleher also collected the
schoolboy title for the Cabbage Garden. It
is a pity that this interesting game and its
much superior senior, fives, find so little
favor in Australia. The expense of the walled
courts is a deterrent, no doubt. To improve
and maintain physical condition for any other-
form of sport, fives or handball have no equal.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: The Stawell Gift was won
by Roy Barker, of Essendon, who ran
off the llf-yard mark and was clocked
to do 12$sec. for the journey. In spite
of the hard times the betting was very heavy,
the winner and his crowd cleaning up over
£3OOO in wagers alone, while the stake was
£350.
* * * *
“Kelly”: “Watta” Green, who won the
Australian standing block championship chop
at Sydney Show, is a person of some deter-
mination. Four years ago he left Maoriland
with the announcement that he would not
return until he had won the world’s and
Australian axemen’s championships. He was
successful in his attempt on the world’s title
in Tasmania, but failed to collect the Aus-
tralian title until the other day. Now that
is accomplished, he proposes to turn his
steps homewards.


AUSTRALIAN ART EXHIBITION
macLeod gallery,
Bulletin Buildings,
252 George Street, Sydney.
For the exhibition and sale of
Australian art and artcraft.
The public may turn to this gallery at all times and be sure of
finding a representative collection. The works are for sale at
prices from three guineas upwards. Admission is free; and
the public is cordially invited.
The gallery will be glad to sell the artists’ work; but it will
give just as warm welcome to those who only come to admire.
Pictures now on exhibition include works by Sir John Long-
staff, Will Ashton, Streeton, Hans Heysen, Norman Lindsay,
Hilder, Penleigh Boyd, Max Meldrum, J. R. Jackson, Bernard
Hall, Syd Long, B. E. Minns, Chas. Wheeler, Fred Leist, John
Rowell, W. B. Mclnnes, Howard Ashton, Dora Wilson and
many others—2sB pictures in all, with artcraft work by
members of the Society of Arts and Crafts, Vi Eyre, Miss
Newman and Miss Atkinson.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
Nowhere, except at the races, is there so
comprehensive a collection of Sydney who s
who as at a vice-regal garden party. Even the
smallest who, whom scarcely anybody compli-
ments with a careless “Who is she?” walked
the Government House lawns last week when
the postponed open-air party bloomed in honor
oi the Bridge opening. Sir Philip and his lady
had cast a wide net when they sent out
3000 invitations, and, judging by the billows
of chiffon and the forest of black silk hats,
all the fish, great and small, had wriggled in.
The loaves to go with them were spread
in marquees on the lower lawn and along
the grey stone terrace that runs along the
drawing-room and the ballroom.
For once Sydney woman was picturesque.
In rhythmic and flowing chiffons and laces
accompanied by hats of wide brim and
graceful line, she was a tremendous relief
from the aggressive self-consciousness of the
long-endured boyish silhouette. Lady Game’s
contribution to the color scheme was the
brown of autumn leaves. It started in her
hat of panne velvet and ran through shoes
and gloves and sunshade. The Governor-
General and Lady Isaacs were there, her
tall figure carrying a swirl of caramel-
brown laces. Her small hat had an eye veil,
and she carried a white arctic fox neck-
let. The Jerseys arrived late, after the
great handshaking of the Victoria League
reception. She wore the berry-red frock she
had aired at the races, and the most envi-
able things about her were her pearls and
a diamond brooch. He looked very young,
his hat and smile very shiny. Mrs. Norman
Lowe’s powder-blue frock and brown platter
hat were pictorial in the Watteau manner;
and Mrs. Bertie Kelly made an entrance in
white chiffons covered three-quarter way by
a black velvet coat, about knee-length at the
back and cut round in the front. But the
eye-arresting figure- on the lawn was the
Honorable Mrs. Roland Kitson. Her beige
laces swathed her long slim figure to just
above the knees, thence flowing wide and
full; the neckline was shaped scarf-wise, and
where it knotted over the left shoulder was
a green flower. Her hat and shoes were
green and her beige parasol was knotted with
green ribands. Another decorative person
in beige lace was the wife of South Aus-
tralia’s Governor. Her dark brown straw
hat was finished with the übiquitous quill.
And so many others it was dizzying to
watch them.
Though cocktail parties have been raging
during the past fortnight, the olive of com-
mendation, complete with stone rampant and
couchant, has been awarded to that tapped
by the G. IT. Rayners in their flat at
Onslow Gardens. Hundreds turned up to
sample the brew, among them, of course,
Mrs. Rayner’s son “Giff” and daughter Joan.
Drinks circulated merrily below stairs, but
it was on the roof the real surprise was
waiting, for the ingenious hostess had turned
the laundry into a jolly little cocktail-bar.
Beatrice Kelly was there, and tried the ex-
periment of a small hat with red feather
against her red locks. “Did” de Pledge,
from Perth, and Mrs. Faviell (soon to be
married again), who was there with her
mother, Mrs. Pickburn, turned up in very
smart kit, and all the usual young things
included Margaret Honey, “Jimmy” Borsdorf,
Joyce Beazley and Valerie Purves. Civic
dignity was added by Lud Mayor and Mrs.
Walder.
lii front of an altar dignified and beauti-
ful with Easter lilies and gladioli, Dr.
Micklem, rector of St. James’s, gave the prom-
ises which he has so often extracted from
others. He gave them firmly and clearly, and
the ring was produced without fuss or delay.
In short, Dr. Micklem had arrived in his
own church at 8.30 in the morning to be
married, and he went about it with the
directness you might expect from one who
has, so to speak, stage-managed hundreds of
nuptials. He is handsome, a little worn
as though with thought, a little ascetic. His
bride was Miss Evelyn Auriac, who had
been coaching at one of the Tamworth col-
leges for some time. Her father is Paul
Edmond Auriac, of Ayeres, France, and so
her eldest brother, Guy, armed her to the
altar. She wore white marocains and a
white straw hat, but from what this Letter
saw of her nice profile there’s no need for
her to become addicted to the droopy shapes.
Her white roses and string of jade (botli
gifts from her ’groom) caught the gaze. June
Britten was the one bridesmaid, Padre W.
H'ume tied the knot, the choristers sang like
the cherubim, and Mrs. Hubert Fairfax host-
essed the breakfast at the Queen's Club.
Any woman of a vivacious and imagina-
tive disposition who starts a speech with
“Fifty years ago, I remember,” has riveted
her audience to her. They feel she is a
link with the belles and the bucks of other
days. Mrs. Aronson’s outline of the life of
Sydney during half a century was one of the
hits of the “Women of Sydney” dinner
organised by Mrs. W. Epps in honor of the
H'on. Mrs. Roland Kitson and Mrs. Ennis.
Two poetesses who spoke with charm were
Dora Wilcox and Mary Gilmore. Dora took
her listeners rambling with her across
bridges of two continents, whose beauty had
held her in thrall; Mary paid the company
the compliment of reading to them two of
her own unpublished poems; and _ Mary
Booth, whose diction is like spring in
a Devon garden, had the last word of all.
The guests, who were about 40 in number,
are among the contributors to Mrs. Epps’s
new venture, a magazine called “Women of
Sydney.”
The week has been stuffed with doings,
one of the most formal being the Victoria
League’s reception in honor of the Earl and
Countess of Jersey. This was by way of
compliment to the Earl’s mother, who was for
many years the League’s president, and is
still a vice-president. Many of the Leaguers
were fitting in the Government House garden
party, so this handshake served as a curtain-
raiser to the pastoral affair. Other eat-
drink-and-be-merrys were a small affair at
Romano’s given by the Jerseys, about 20
all told; the cocktail hour on board the
Canberra, when Commander Holbrook was
mine, thine and everybody’s host; and a
ball in aid of the Benevolent Society on
the Kitano Maru, in which the Japanese
colony was actively interested. At this last
an eye-dazzling iced replica of the Bridge,
complete w'ith flags on pylons and blazing
with lights, turned out to be a cake, the
cunning work of the ship’s chef. The
Wongi, arranged by that close little clan
the Westralians, was another success. Sena-
tor Kingsmill’s lady, Mrs. Goodison and
Mrs. Foster Mattei helped this to its happy
ending, when, speeches being over, _it was
a case of all-talk-together. The Historical
Ball, in aid of the Far West Children’s
Health Scheme, filled David Jones’s ballroom
with vice-regals and celebrities of every
stage of this fair continent’s history
One of the most popular of the C.W.A.
indomitables j_s
Miss S. F.
W a r b y, a
member of an
old Riverina
family. Since
the associa-
tion ’ s birth
Miss Warby
has been an
active worker
in the cause,
and since 1927
she has been
its treasurer
for love of it.
One of the most
tumult uous
moments dur-
ing this year’s
conference was
when Lady
Isaacs pr e-
sented her
with the life-
membership badge. Picture from May
Moore.
Society at Morna MacCor-
mick’s wedding to Colin Anderson, and St.
Stephen’s, in Pliillip-street, was besieged
hours before the time fixed for the bride’s
arrival. Over 200 guests were shown to
their pews by nine well-tailored ushers, and
until the arrival of the principals the in-
terest centred in the flower arrangements,
the chief 0 f which was a curtain into which
blue flowers of every shade were woven, and
against whose soft toning vivid reds and
pinks and yellows flamed a sort of triumph.
Entwined on the fragrant surface in golden
roses were the names, “Morna” and “Colin.”
As Australia’s famous surgeon Alexander
MacCormick is away in England, uncle C. W.
Cropper (he’s the secretary of the A.J.C.)
squired the lovely little bride up the church.
She was radiant in ivory satins (long, tight,
sleeves, a cowl neckline and a long train
were the frock’s features), its shimmer
misted over by miles of tulle. Her mother’s
coronet of pearls and a small posy of orange
blossoms were details which went to the
dressing of this orthodox bride. The ’groom,
who is the elder son of Sir Alan and Lady
Anderson, of Palace Green, London, and one
of the pillars of the Orient Company, has
been in Sydney studying the Australian end
of the business, and that’s how Cupid las-
soed him. His sister Diana was the only
’maid, and she was a froth of golden laces,
frilled about the hem. Her head-dress was
a mediaeval affair, a halo of fine lace in the
same coloring, as were her handful of gerberas.
Little relations Jill MacCormick and John
•Cropper, in Greenaway frock and suit of
white satin, followed in the procession.
Padre Hugh Paton blessed the vows, and
later, at Kilmorey, the MacCormick lady
received the long stream of guests, chief
among them being ’groom s parents, Sir Alan
and Lady Anderson, and Sir Kenneth and
Lady Anderson.
This Letter could fill itself by just record-
ing the gifts sent to Morna MacCormick and
Colin Anderson, but there’s only room for
a word about the jewels and the pictures. A
diamond and pearl bracelet, a diamond
brooch and a diamond ring came from the
parents; a diamond bracelet from Dr. Jarvie
Hood, and a diamond brooch from Mr. and
Mrs. Charles Cropper. Among the pictures
were a Gruner, a Lister Lister and a Nora
Heysen; Mr. Dowdell, of the Orient line,
gave the young couple, whom he had known
since childhood, a painting by John -D-
Moore; and the glowing color of a Margaret
Preston woodcut shone out from a great dis-
play of wealth. Perhaps, though, the one
the" girl will treasure most in her London
home (another present from Sir Alan Ander-
son) is a water-color sketch of the harbor
from Kilmorey, her old home. Some imagina-
tive person had made articulate Morna’s
dumb friends and sent it from Hector—he’s
her Scotch terrier—the magpie Jacko and
the canary Dickie.
The lady in this Falk picture is Mrs.
Primrose, now
in her sixth
year as
Mayoress of
North Syd-
ne y. She
anil her hus-
band were very
much in the
picture during
the Bridge cele-
brations— M r.
Primrose cut
the ribbon at
the northern
end on the
great day (the
New Guard,
of course, calls
it De Groot
day). Mrs.
Primrose is a
noted charity
•organiser, and
has done much
to relieve the distress of North Shore un-
employed.
While most of Sydney has- been tilting a
cocktail glass, or trying to catch a waiter’s
eye, the musicians have been gathering and
quavering and airing a few crotchets about
mechanical music and the need for young
people to take up music as a means of self-
expression. Yes, and when they’ve learned
to do it and an opera company is being
formed, off we go to Europe and bring back
all the principals, the only expression left
to the native music-wise being a choral
amen or so. However, as usual, the lectures
during this conference were both instructive
and interesting, Walter Thorman, on junior
pianoforte playing, and Faunce Allman, on
junior and intermediate violin, being parti-
cularly gripping. The latter’s talk on the
literature of music has probably sent hun-
dreds already to the shelves of the libraries.
The social fireworks of the music con-
ference were the reception to the principals
of the Imperial Opera Co. Over 700 mem-
bers of the Musical Association turned up,
president Cyril Monk and Minister for Edu-
cation Davies welcomed the imported aviary,
and Italy’s Consul-General made a speech
first in Italian and then in English. The
ladies are graceful frockers, and made a
sparkling little group. Nina Pagliughi
acknowledged the welcome in a stream of
fluid vowels.
If this Letter had had anything to do with
hatching this year’s Artists’ Ball _ it would
have felt ashamed of the poor, pitiful thing.
The committee apparently had been too busy
to arrange sets that were either spectacular
or poetically beautiful, and, although the
night was called Hawaiian, no scheme of
pageantry had been worked out. The decora-
tions were supposed to represent a jungle;
but there were so many serpents thrusting out
their tongues it might have been the family
doctor’s visiting day at the snake-house in
the Zoo. Of the women in evening frocks,
most appeared to be wearing their second-
best, and half the fancy costumes would have
been the better for a 15-minute interview with
the pressing iron. An evening paper referred
to one lady as a “Baccanti,” and as for the
poor out-of-the-worlds who thought they were
attracting attention by stretches of bare
anatomy, their expectations were blighted—
the backless frock has robbed us of any thrill
over that. This Letter has seen more_ spirited
and pictorial scenes on carnival nights at
the skating-rinks, and if the art societies
and the theatrical profession are going to
stage another artists’ ball thq» should for
the sake of the arts they represent do the
thing with some sort of an air.
A thin sliver of ice slipped into the air
midway through last week, and women race-
goers sighed with relief. At last there was
an excuse to introduce Randwick to that
new short fur coat or cape, the new tweed
frock, so snugly fitting, and the postage-
stamp hat. The G.-G. and Lady Isaacs
gave a lunch party, and the State Exes, did
likewise. Among the Games’ guests were
the Hubert Murray lady, of Papua, still in
georgettes and a wide-brimmed hat. Lady
Game, on the other hand, was in honey-
colored wool marocain served with sables and
a brown panne-velvet hat; Mayoress Walder,
too, protected herself in sapphire-blue cloth
lavish with fur. Lady Isaacs slung a white
fox across her black maroeains, and our
youngest countess compromised between
summer and autumn in n white-aud-red pat-
terned crepe-de-Chine frock, a shady white
hat and rich furs. Mrs. Rayner, one of
the afternoon’s hostesses, was sleek in black
satin. Many girls took hints from the hair-
dressing of the newly-returned Irene and
Jean Anderson, so curled and waved on the
nape of their necks that not the smallest
hat need daunt them. Janet Thatcher, in
pink-flecked jersey, was one of the afternoon’s
sweets; and Mrs. Tom Rolin, in black and
white, looked more than ever like a French
marquise.
Three dances it was really smart to be
asked to were the Matrons’, the dance on
the Canberra, and the Rose Bay Golf Club’s
effort on Saturday night. The Matrons’ Ball
was the combined effort of 10 Sydney host-
esses, who invited 250 guests to dance at
Farmer’s, and apparently pooled the expenses
—quite a good, hard-times way of giving, a
large party. Nine debs, fluttered into social
being, there was a profusion of pink roses
and ferny fronds in the decorations, there
were programmes, and the roof garden was
used as a promenade.
Nobody enjoyed the Lucky Key .Ball more
than Lady Isaacs —not even Captain Forrest,
who was in attendance on her and the
Governor-General, and whose, key was one
of the 14 that opened a cabinet, with the
result that a nice bit of Satsuma went home
in the vice-regal car. Lady Isaacs is a good
dancer, and the official group, which included
the State Governor and Lady Game (an-
other tireless dancer), Mrs. R. D. Kitson
(tall Oswald Cheeke squired her and Joan
Osborne and Valerie Purves to the flutter),
Chief Justice Street’s lady, Mrs. Norman
Lowe and the Mayoral Walders, was one
of the gayest in the room. Lady Isaacs was
impressive in silver-grey satins, the State
vice-reine was sheathed in gold lace,. Mrs.
Norman Lowe’s silver and gold lame sug-
gested some tropic butterfly, and notable
were Mrs. Kitson’s red-gold hair and gold
brocades. This dance was one of the un-
doubted successes of the . festivities. The
ballroom at David Jones’s was pleasantly
full; and the cabinet and the fan dances
supplied the stir of novelty. . Furlough
House and Karitane, the Australian Mother-
craft Training Centre, share the profits. Mrs.
F. W. Taylor and Mrs. J. C. Leete were the
secretaries, and Mrs. H. Clayton and Gordon
Keesing the treasurers.
Queensland queues up :
When the Goodwins paid their farewell visit to Ascot
her Ex. wore cedar-brown with a pink scarf, and a
tagel straw hat. Madge Macdonald, who was with her,
was ini nut brown. Mrs. George Mocatta wore blue;
Mrs. W. Kent favored honey-colored crepe de Chine;
Mrs. R. M. King chose navy, patterned ini blue and
amber; Mrs. M. B. Beel (Cunnamulla) wore prune
marocain; Mrs. Colin Campbell was clad in cherry;
Dorothy Webster’s pretty peach shantung had a
white lace straw hat with black feather ; Joan Bond
was in green and white; Freda Stewart wore white;
Mrs. Pitt (Charleville) chose black; handsome Mrs.
J. L. Woolcock, the Judge’s widow, wore ivory and
dark blue; Mrs. R. J. Spence’s black was worn with
a green and white scarf.
Lady Goodwin unveiled the Women's Memorial
tablet, finely sculptured by Daphne Mayo. Mrs. E.
B. Harris, chairwoman of the Queensland .Women’s
War Memorial Committee, presided. The Governor,
the Premier and Mrs. Moore, the Mayor and Mrs.
Greene, Archbishop Sharp, Brigadier E. M. Ralph
and Commander J. C. McFarlane were amongst the
throng. There is a drinking fountain attached to
the tablet. A leather wallet with a photo of the
memorial was handed to her Ex.
Two old pastoralist families were joined in the
marriage of E. D. Wilson to Ethel P. Green. Canon
Frost tied the knot in St. Paul’s, Rockhampton.
The bride, who was given away by her father, was
in ivory bridal satin with Brussels-net veil. Gwen
Green and Nancy Wilson ’maided in buttercup.
The feasting was at Kirby’s.
Another Easter wedding was that of Roy Douglas
Burnett, to Olive Rhoda Lewis, in the Albert-street
Methodist church. The bride wore white angel-skin
satin with veil of ’broidered tulle. Misses G. Lewis,
J. Bleeck and J. Paulsen ’maided in coral. Atcherley
saw the feast.
Robert Wallace Docker, grandson of the late Judge
Docker, Sydney, married Eunice Salmon in the Ann-
street Presbyterian church. The bride was in citrus-
tinted broderie Anglaise and green summer felt.
Mrs. Salmon, in agate brown, hostessed the party
at the National. The ’groom is a popular member
of Brisbane’s younger set, and, like his close friend
Captain Brain, never more happy than when in
the air.
Stephanie Munro, of Toowoomba, announces her
engagement to George Taylor, of Fittsworth.


s
/
n
Perfect
Shoulder
Strap-"
* For
Lingerie
And there’s
no need
to remove.
e
[Washing RIBBONSI
They look like new
after repeated washing.
Made in dainty, fade-
less, Pastel Shades
with Brocaded or Floral
Effects.
Ask your Draper for Cash’s
J. & J. Cash Australian
Weaving Co. Fty. Ltd.
Richmond. Melbourne. A
Amusements.
QYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: E. J. Tait, Frank Tait, J. H. Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
Commencing with a gala performance of
AIDA
next Saturday.
I. c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: BITTER SWEET,
First production in A /India.
KING’S THEATRE:
THE BARRETTS OF WIMPOLE
STREET
With MARGARET RAWLINGS.
The Greatest Proof
of Reader Value!
Crosswords are booming in Western
Australia, and the
fortnightly competition has been re-
markably successful. The latest result
shows that within 14 days
42,144
entrants at sixpence each subscribed
£lOO6/10/-
towards the prize money.
The number of entries received, when
considered in relation to the weekly
circulation of
32,000
copies, demonstrates in a remarkable
manner the wonderful reader-value of
the big pink Sunday paper.
FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISERS
there is nothing like it in the West.
The rate per inch represents wonder-
ful buying for such splendid coverage.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800for [?]
Buckley e-Nunn [?]
[?]
A deluge of rain washed much of the lustre
off the Back-to-the-Horse procession on
Saturday. Crowds turned out and lined the
route, and gee-gees to the number of about
1000, all polished and combed, stepped along
in various forms of usage. There were a
Cobb and Co.’s coach with passengers in old-
time costume, and carriages, buggies and
hansom cabs. Saddle mounts included hacks,
hunters, war horses and the beautiful greys
of the mounted police. Phar Lap was repre-
sented by a stable-mate, a grey pony ridden by
little Il'arry Telford, who sported the red,
white and black racing colors of his father.
Magnificent Clydesdales in waggons and lor-
ries evoked great admiration. The cavalcade
wended its way to the Show Ground, where
there was a gymkhana, which was better
favored by the Clerk of the Weather than
the earlier proceedings were.
Mr. and Mrs. Jimmy Dyer’s parting gift
to the British Music Society was a picture
by Dora Meeson of a flower market in Paris.
This, which was accompanied by a framed
print of the French composer Tully, was
given as recognition of the work of the hon.
sec., Sybil Hull. Dora Meeson, an Austra-
lian artist now in England, is a .sister of
Mrs. Victor Wischer, who is on the com-
mittee of the society. The announcement of
this present was made at a gathering of
members at the Lyceum Club, when good-
byes were said to the Dyers, who are return-
ing to France. Mrs. Dyer had a wrap of
wine-colored and slate-blue velvet over her
gown of apricot georgette. She had to say
“Thank you” for a paper-knife in a gum-
leaf design, a memento from the society,
which was handed over by Miss Hull. Some
modern French music which M. Albert Rous-
sell had sent to Mrs. Dyer was performed.
Roussell was represented by a trio for flute
and strings, in which all three parts were
in different keys. It sounded just like that.
A sonatina for piano by Ferroud was equally
incomprehensible. Jean Christie received
applause for tackling the monstrosities. Rita
Coonan, backed by Katie Liddle at the
piano, extracted pleasanter strains from a
group of songs by Jean Cras and Francis
Poulenc, and was successful also in Rous-
sell’s “Jazz dans la nuit.'” Flautist Richard
Chugg was heard in a composition by Jacques
Ibert.
A large audience filed into the Town Hall
at five o’clock on Friday afternoon at the
invitation of Mrs. J. Dyer to listen to an
hour of Haydn’s music, since the day was
the 200th anniversary of the great composer’s
birth. Organist W. McKie spoke a few
words about the old master as a preliminary.
Raymond Lambert played The “Theme and
Variations in F minor” for pianoforte, and
Elise Steele and three other ladies performed
Quartette No. 50 in D major. Eda Bennie,
clad in fine black lace, lifted her light
soprano voice in three songs to English
words. Lud Mayor Smith and the Dyers
were there.
Mrs. Jimmie Dyer carried away as a
memento of her short reign as Mayoress a
gold travelling clock, the gift of the wives
and daughters of city aldermen and coun-
cillors. Over a billy-boiling at Menzies’ Mrs.
Frank Staplcy, whose husband is senior
alderman, passed over the tribute, with a
posy to Mrs. Dyer, whose begonia-red suit
had touches of white. A silver fox necklet
and a small felt hat with a white feather
mount were also in the picture. The Morell
lady and Mollie Elliott organised the good-
bye gathering, at which Mrs. Harold Luxton
and Mrs. Stapley did the honors.
The ' University Symphony Orchestra
placed Papa Haydn’s works in the forefront
of the programme of its first concert of this
season’s series, playing the “Clock Sym-
phony” and the concerto in D major for
piano and orchestra. Bernard IJeinze con-
ducted and Roy Shepherd was the piano
soloist. Smetana’s “The Bartered Bride”
and Cesar Franck’s Symphony in D minor
concluded a well-rehearsed concert. In the
audience were knight James Barrett and his
lady, Mrs. Dyer, the Maudsley lady. Dr.
Leon Jon a and his two daughters, Prof. ;vid
Mrs. Ernest Scott, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert
Brookes and the Robert Bests.
Mrs. Walter Berry, 0 n the eve of taking
passage in the Orford for England, enter-
tained her friends at a cocktail party. This
form of entertainment is growing here.
Guests are asked to drop in for just an
hour or so before dinner, when a cocktail
or some other sort of spot, with a savory or
a saveloy, sufficient catering for the informal
gathering.
The Alliance Frangaise, at its latest
soiree, produced Rostand’s one-act comedy
“Les Deux Pierrots.” A chat on Iceland
by Prof. Lodewyckx and a little singing and
dancing also figured on the programme. Fare-
wells were said to Mrs. Dyer. Madame Gay
came forward with an armful of gladioli for
the lady, and president Rene Vanderkelen
spoke the general adieux, to which Mrs.
Dyer made reply in fluent French. In the
Rostand play Mrs. Cockerton, who was Pier-
rette, wore white tarlatan and satin ballet
attire, with powdered hair, and . the pierrots,
Messrs. Damesin and Studer, were also in
white satin. Four fair attendants were in
white suits touched up with silver, the set-
ting being a garden.
Girl Guides of the First Middle Park Com-
pany were right in the front of the picture
when their leader, Miriam, daughter of A. W.
Barnes, of Ivanlioe, was wedded on March
28 to Harold, son of Mr. and Mrs. H.
Holmes, of St. Kilda. Ivory satin and beau-
tiful antique lace were worn by the bride,
whose attendant ’maid was clad in pale green
topped by a pale-pink hat. The brides aunt,
Miss E. Barnes, of Rose Bay, Sydney, was
hostess at a reception at the Oriental.
The Rev. G. Douglas Brimacombe, son of
the J. G. Brimacombes, of Warniambool, took
to wife Gertrude Margery Holden at the
Kew Methodist Church, where the bride s
father, the Rev. A. T. Holden, tied the knot.
Two ’maids in leaf-green velvet with wreaths
of roses attended the bride, whose white
satin draperies had an overlay of old lace. A
small trainbearer sported a high-waisted frock
of ivory satin. At the after-reception at No.
9 Ilighbury-grove, Kew, Mrs. Holden was
hostess in black lace and black millinery
with touches of white.
Jocelyn, only daughter of the _ William
Purves Smiths, of South Yarra, is off _to
England by the Orford to keep a wedding
date with Lieutenant Forbes Robertson-Aik-
man, R.N., second son of Colonel and Mrs.
T. Robertson-Aikman, of Lanarkshire. The
bridegroom-elect, who is a godson of Sir
Alexander Hore-Ruthven, Governor of South
Australia, was A.D.C. to h'is godfather for
a while. Mrs. Purves is accompanying her
daughter, who only recently returned from
a lengthy stay in England. Audrey Pool-
man goes along to be attendant ’maid at the
ceremony.
At the opening of Arthur Streeton’s show
of paintings Mrs. Streeton was a study in
warm sepia tones. Among those who admired
the exhibits were the Frank Clarkes, and
Richard Stawell’s lady, Mrs. G. Landale and
Mrs. G. Fairbairn.
The party of six Australians who set out
from Melbourne several months ago' to
travel as much as possible of the way to
Monte Carlo in motor-cars lias decided to
extend the tour to include Central Europe,
the Sahara, West Africa, the Congo and
Capetown. The members of the party —Mrs.
F. Coldham, Joan Richmond, Jean Robert-
son, Kathleen Howell, R. Beatson and J. P.
S. Morice —are reported all well.
During Wool Week there will be exhibited
in various forms a poster design showing
a small girl
knitting and a
sheep in the
backg round.
T his, the
work of Athol
Thompson, is
the winning
entry in _ a
c o m p e tition.
Mr. Thomp-
son’s success
is almost
m i r a culous,
for, as the pic-
ture shows,
he draws and
paints holding
pencils or
brushes in his
mouth. Since
he was nine
—he is now
20 —he has
had no hands,
but dogged perseverance for five years has
enabled him to follow his artistic bent despite
a terrible handicap. He is a student of the
Working Men’s College.
The Foundling‘Hospital at Broadmeadows,
has engaged Sister Maude Primrose to look
after some of the babies and train a number
of the nuns according to the Truby King
methods. Dr. Truby King visited the estab-
lishment last year, and the appointment is
the result.
Dr. Jean Macnamara, who went abroad
last year on a Rockefeller Research Scholar-
ship to study infantile paralysis, was operated
upon for appendicitis in London. She is
convalescing at the Hertfordshire home of
Lady Somers.
Prof. Scott’s wife has returned from a
sojourn of several months in Peking. She
was one of the delegates to the Institute of
Pacific Relations at Hanchow in October,
and tarried awhile to pursue her hobby,
which is musical research. And she brings
back a rich harvest, including photographs
and gramophone records.
The W. A. Gibsons, of Toorak, gave a
bridge party at Grosvenor as a farewell to
Mr. and Mrs. George Lemon on the eve of
their departure for Europe. The hostess
and her daughter Elaine wore black chiffon,
Mrs. Lemon choosing draperies of bronze lace.
Passed over recently, at 94, Mrs. Rebecca
Morrison, widow of Dr. George Morrison
who founded Geelong College, and mother
of Dr. G. E. Morrison, sometime Peking
correspondent of the “Times,” and later poli-
tical adviser to the Chinese Government.
The death of Mrs. Frank Tate at 68
removes one who has spent a long life in
the cause of true education, particularly in
the interests of children in lonely outposts
and their teachers, mostly young girls. A
trained teacher of outstanding ability before
her marriage, she later worked by iier hus-
band’s side in country inspectorates; then
managed the domestic affairs of the Teachers’
Training College during his term as princi-
pal ; and finally loyally seconded him for the
BO years he was Victorian Director of Educa-
tion.
Portrait-painter Marion Jones, who hails
from Bendigo, but has been established, in
London for some years, is here on a visit.
She was a student at the National Gallery,
where she won a travelling scholarship, and
has resided abroad for the last 10 years.
Dr. J. A. Gilruth’s daughter Margaret,
who is on a visit to relatives in Scotland,
has lately become a journalistic freelance,
and reports that Fleet-street has been accept-
ing her contributions with great cordiality.
Geelong is launching a Rep. Theatre Soc.
which is to make its debut in Shaw’s ‘ Pyg-
malion.” Mrs. Allen Meakin (Dulcie Bland)
is directress and producer.
Hope, daughter of surgeon George Syme
and his widow, who resides at Malvern, is
receiving congratulations on her engagement
to John Holmes Shaw, of South Yarra, son
of Mrs. S. Shaw, of New Plymouth, Maon-
land.
While Lord Sherborne was in Hobart he
received a memento of his visit from his
relatives, Sylvia Sherborne Pedder and her
brother Louis, of a roll-blotter set in Tas-
manian blackwood and mounted in gold.
In the recent production of “The Queen’s
Husband,” by the Gregan McMahon Players,
the royal lady was played by Mrs. Evelyn
Burnett, here
pictured b y
Dickinson
Mcuitcath. She
earned fame
on the stage
by being a
member of the
sex tette in
the first Aus-
tralian per-
formance of
“F 1 o rodora,”
but had not
again appeared
behind the foot-
lights until she
played in the
Robert Sher-
wood comedy
last month.
II e r appear-
ance in “Floro-
dora” when
she was Eve-
lyn Muret was her only theatrical experi-
ence. Her sister, Hetty Muret, who is now
married and resides in Europe, was known
as a dramatic actress of considerable talent.
Mrs. Burnett, who was in business as a cos-
tumi&re here for some years, now spends
most of her time in travelling.
A recent gift to St. Paul’s Cathedral is an
episcopal stall of marble from N. S. Wales,
presented by the Misses Turner in memory
of their father, George Turner, who was
twice Premier of this State and served a
term as Federal Treasurer.
Ilosa Pinkerton, of this city, who has
been understudying Marie Burke in a Eon-
don production of “Waltzes from Vienna,”
had her chance the other night, and the
critics were kind.
The small scholar of the family had done
particularly well in her class exams., and
had walked home with top marks in Christian
doctrine; and the parish priest, to mark the
event, brought her a present. “I do like
Father Kerson,” said ■ the six-year-old theo-
logian. “Pooh,” said giftless three-year-old,
“I like Father Christmas best.”
A recent invention is a reflector fitted on
to the handle of an umbrella for use on
country roads to reveal traffic approaching
from behind. It might be an advantage as
well to pedestrians crossing busy city streets;
©nly pedestrians crossing busy city streets
shouldn’t carry open umbrellas.
S.A.’s sub.:—
At the Onkaparinga races Lieut.-Governor Murray
represented vice-royalty in the absence of the Hore-
Ruthvens in Sydney. Chairman Mr. H. 13. Young
and his wife entertained at afternoon tea, Mrs.
Young wearing a brown tailored suit and a blue hat.
The Walkerville Babies’ Home benefited to the
extent of £7B by a gift fete held in the grounds
of Mrs. H. C. Downer’s residence. Stalls were
arranged beneath the trees and tea. was served in
the rose garden, beneath large beach umbrellas.
The home is quite a small affair, about a dozen babies
being its average, and it is entirely dependent upon
the generosity of the public. Mrs. Julian Ayers
supervised a bridge party in the house, which
helped to swell the funds.
The Mayor and Mayoress (Mr. and Mrs. C. R. J.
Glover) and their son Jack have returned to
Kingston-terrace, North Adelaide, after spending
Easter at Port Noarlunga.
This week is beipg devoted to a drive by the
Mothers’ and Babies’ Health Association. There
have been bridge parties, a concert and a ball; and
there was a garden f6te at St. Wilfrid’s, Aldgate,
the beautiful home of Miss Hilda Snow, in aid of
the S.A. Free Kindergartens.
Although the Angorichina Flower Festival is still
a fortnight ahead, it is being kept well in the
public eye. Among the 10 industries running Rose
Queens, the Retail, with its Golden Emblem, is well
in the lead. Sweets and ice-cream will be the only
offerings of the stalls. The floral decoration will be
carried out in wistaria; the sweet-sellers, some of
Adelaide’s prettiest girls, will wear wistaria frocks.
Miss Gladys Moncrieff, who witnessed the yachting
tragedy at Glenelg from the Pier Hotel, is organising
a concert, at which she will sing, to raise money to
purchase a lifeboat for Glenelg. The concert will
take place on a Sunday during her present season
at the Theatre Royal.
Spindrift from the Speck:—
Jean Mandeville, whose marriage to H. Minton-
Taylor (Sydney) takes place in a few weeks, has
been farewelled extensively by her friends. One
of the most successful shows was a. dinner and bridge
party at Hadley’s, got up by a committee of
matrons and maidens.
The last trip of the Zealandia took av'ay several
mainlanders, among them the T. H. Browns, who ■
have been at their Femtree house all the summer,
and Mrs. Hilmer Smith. Mrs. Hawker and her
daughter, Mrs. Geoff Payne, were passengers for
N.S.W., and Mrs. E. McConnel, who has been
spending the summer with her sister, Mrs. Godfrey
Rivers, for Brisbane.
Mrs. Ruby McLaren organised a personally-
conducted tour of visitors over Jones’s IXL factory,
the small fee charged going to the Girls’ Industrial
School. It was a capital notion, many ship’s
passengers being glad of something to do in port.
Dora Sparke, who has been in the Speck for
several weeks, teaed a smart crowd at Hadley’s
before returning to Newcastle. The lounge was
decorated with dahlias and colored foliage and
there were quite 50 guests.
Marion, only daughter of the Ernest Gibsons,
walked down the aisle of the Evandale Presbyterian
church, as Mrs. Kenneth Morton Douglas, in a frock
of white suede georgette. The bodice was cross-
over, with sleeves puffed at the elbow, the skirt
flared. A tulle veil was caught to the hair by a
circlet of orange blossom. Elvina Mackinnon ’maided
in pink organdie, with head-wreath of pink and
blue flowers. The bride’s mother held a reception
at the Point, her Evandale home, after the ceromeny.
The Hobart Repertory Society sponsored one of
its best sideshows in the interim performance of two
one-act solutions to Barrie’s puzzle play, “Shall
We Join the Ladies?” The plays had been judged
by the president of the Launceston “Players.”
J. A. B. Forster got away with the first prize, the
second being written by H. Warlow-Davies. This
is the first time the society has tried the home-
made article, and one hopes it won’t be the last.
Artist Florence Rodway is paying a brief visit
to her people in Hobart.
The Eric von Bibras ar e in the Speck on a
visit from Calcutta. They have been staying with
the L. von Bibras, Woodstock, and other friends.
Westralia’s whack:—
Headquarters wore its gayest mantle for the open-
ing day of the Easter races. Beds of vivid cannas
and amaranthus flanked the emerald lawns and
plane-trees flashed their autumn tints overhead.
Dresses were in keeping, a blend of summer frocks
and autumn outfits. Betty Goff moulded Y-shaped
stripes to her lissom lines; Dot Quid matched the
lawns with coatee and figured skirt; Helen Vincent’s
fair locks formed a halo for her Mercury hat, which
topped a sienna marocain and lace; Mrs. Frank
Davies punted in tailored black sprinkled with
white; three sausage-rolls of hair appeared from
under the brim of Pat Sanderson’s walnut velvet
tricorne; Nan O’Connor’s apple green gown was
faggot-stitched and short-sleeved; and Jean Robinson
aired her father’s racing colors in diagonal stripes
of orange and green.
World Peace funds will benefit from the moonlight
f6te held in the grounds of Mrs. Rischbeith’s home
in Cottesloe. The Women’s Service Guild arranged
the show, and although the weather was a bit nippy
for Jean Wilson’s scantily-clad eurhythmic dancers,
Beryl Seward’s “Trojan Women’’ and Laurel Berry-
man’s “Merchant of Venice” players appreciated it.
Mrs. Spencer Cook sang the Easter Hymn to a
terpsichorean accompaniment, and a tableau of The
Dawn finalised affairs. Mrs. Rose Atkinson, Mrs.
Spencer Cook and Mrs. Cecil Evans were respon-
sible for the programme.
Patrons of the new Rex Carlton cabaret’s opening
night went underground and found themselves in a
large low-ceilinged room, massed with palms and
roses and rainbow lighting effects. Colin Smith’s
orchestra supplied the music; Mrs. Max Rutter
swept the floor in Grecian robes; Mrs. Gordon His-
lop’s satins gleamed snow white; Edith Trethowan’s
almond blossom chiffon was minutely tucked; Tessie
Nunn fox-trotted in fluted floral blues; and Gretchen
Hardy was swathed in Nile-green satin.
Mrs. Victor Mackay, J.P., of Maoriland, was
lunched en route to London by Mrs. Mervyn Griffiths
and Mrs. J. H. Brooking, and came to thp feast
in gold and black figured suiting. She made her
mark in the Dominion by founding the Pen Women’s
Society, which has evolved into a Three Arts Club,
combining music, drama and journalism.
King’s Park Tennis Club started the season’s
dances with a hop to open the tournament. The
clubroom was lavishly adorned with dahlias and
roses, and the orchestra played from a palm-embowered
alcove. President McGibbon’s wife saw to the
supper arrangements in handsome black lace and
georgettes; daughters Mollie and Rita assisted in eiel-
blue lace and eau-de-nil chiffons respectively. Julie
Lazarus rushed up from Fremantle, where the
Orsova was waiting to take her to England, and
joined the throng in Medici-cut parchment satin;
Dorothy Solomon dangled jade ornaments on her
blush pink laces; Darrell Harford had glittering
diamente straps to her black taffetas; Mollie Noble
caught the eye in midnight-blue georgette; Joyce
Burridge was demure in Alice-blue ninon; Yvonne
Brinkley showed judgment with straight-cut black
velvet; and Betty Wood made her first appearance
after her stay in Colombo in clinging ivory lace.


ISLAND
HOLIDAYS
at concession rates !
t
Why spend holidays locally when Pacific
Island Holiday Tours cost less ?
EXCURSION FARES: (No Exchange.)
SUVA,-FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days.. . Ist Class Return, £35
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via} Auckland and Suva .. Ist Class Return, £75
Seven-weeks’ Tour ..... 2nd ~ „ £55
/RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Twenty-three Days’ Tour. .Ist Class Return, £45
Via Wellington, N.Z. .. . 2nd „ „ £34
PAPEETE, TAHITI.
Via Wellington and
Rarotonga ... Ist Class Return, £55
Seven-weeks’ Tour 2nd „ „ £4O
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney;
59 William Street, Melbourne.
X-
win
m
\\
//trVZj, ■■ 11 '\\\\\\\\\\%^^
RADIO B BATTERIES
V TORCH REFILLS - '
7\(eu) es&eiler""
%
miiiu
'us
£o
S£S
£9
SEAL or GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVERY DOTTII
BOTTLED & GUARANTEED
PURE BY THE FRENCH
COVERNMENT
ETAT MEANS
"STATE vis
OWNED BV THE
STATE OF FRANCE
The .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen*
ncicy and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters, is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
CCLESTINS it the
NAME or THE SPRING
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
((She following statement defies contradiction!
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
hut, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what you should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumat-
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
1 complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.
Gxamine the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes..
Sole Ajjents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER,
VICTORIA:
STATE
distributors
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
16 Bridge Street, Sydney, iV S.W.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Dad and Dave on the Air.
STEELE RUDD REPORTS THE PERFORMANCE.
IT was evening. Dad, having returned from
the city with Maloney in his new tin-
lizzie, was rendering Mother a spirited
account of the trip.
“Would you believe it, Mother?” he said.
“They want me down there to talk some
day on th’ air, along with Dave, an’ give
people all our. experience of farmin’, an’
our opinion on public questions of th’ day,
an’ th’ causes of th’ dern depression an’
how to ov.ercome it:an’ get back to normal!”
“And aren’t you going to do it for them.
Dad?” Sarah, who always favored a place
in the public eye; more than the rest of
the family, . asked .eagerly.
“Cripes, an’ they want me to talk, too,
do they?” Dave enthused; and, rising, he
walked about the room 'hitching his pants
proudly. “Both of-us to talk same as they
do in th’ pictures?”
“They would be only joking, Father,”
Mother commented with a smile.
“They was l earnest, woman! Damme,
don’t I know!” Dad flared up. “An’ they’ll
pay me for‘doin’ it—an’ him, too.”
“By cripes,; if they’ll pay,” Dave said,
“I’m willin’ to talk all day an’ all night
for them. It’d/be a lot easier than ploughin’
or pullin’ corn.” And lie hitched his pants
again.
“You do, Dad,” Sarah urged. “You might
get a lot for it. And. you could tell things
a lot more interesting than the silly stuf T
they broadcast about. country people that
no one but 'themselves . believes !”
“Th’ darn lies they put in th’ mornin’
paper the other evenin',” Dave added —
“about them kids from th’ Baekblocks gorgin’
on ginger-beer at th’ Town H'all, as if none
of them had ever .sin ginger-beer in their
lives before!”
“W-w-well, let y’ b-b-botli have a prac-
tice now,” Joe interrupted. “The two of
yon t-t-talk into th’, m-m-macliine that I
made, an’ s-s-see how y’ get on' at it.”
And while the. others laughed, i and. Dad
grunted and shook , his head disparaging]v,
Joe rushed out to the verandah room, which,
with ancient shotgun's and discarded car-
tridge-belts and broken stockwhip-handles
and hoe-handles and abo. relics, was a curio-
sity shop, to secure an apparatus of his own
invention for transmitting messages oyer the
air—messages which no one ever heard or
received.
“There’s no harm in practising,” Sarah
contended; “it will make you both sure of
yourselves, and then you’ll know what to
say when you’re speaking into the real mike,
or whatever it is they call it. I heard them
talking into one once.”
“I’ll soon have a go at it when he comes.”
Dave grinned, “an’ try me voice out.” Then
he ambled round the room again.
Back Joe hustled, carrying his invention,
a crude arrangement built on three legs, not
unlike a theodolite, which he planted in the
centre of the room, to the accompaniment of
stuttered directions as to the working of it.
Mother smiled in a kindly way on him, as
only mothers can, but Dad grunted again,
and, snatching up the paper, buried his head
in it in deliberate disrespect to the inventor.
“N-n-now then, go on,” Joe urged at his
grinning brother. “S-s-see what you can
s-s-say, an’ if they can hear you.”
“If who can hear me?” Dave queried in-
dignantly. Sarah laughed.
“Everyone of kuk-kuk-course, for ’undreds
of m-m-miles around —p-p-perhaps thou-
sands” —this from Joe.
“Pshaw!” Dave sneered. “But I’ll have
a go, to practise a bit o’ thinkin’, an’ get
me hand in.”
“But d-d-don’t stand too close to th
m-m-mike,” Joe warned. “Just s-s-speak
about a couple of f-f-fect from it. That’s it.”
Then Dave, grinning more, stood up to
the invention and cleared his voice.
Sarah smothered her mirth.
“Keep s-s-still, everyone !” Joe commanded,
casting a look at Dad, who rattled,the paper
and groaned unnecessarily. Dad look over
the sheet arid scowled at Joe, then at Dave.
Mother lowered her eyes.
' “Hello! Who’s there? Are :y’ there?”
Dave began. “Are y’ lookin’? Well, listen.
I was readin’ about th’ feed th’ Mayor give
at the Town Hall to all them kids from, th’
Backblocks of Noo South Wales—do y’ hear?
Well, what I’m goin’, to tell you, an’ pretty
straight too, it’s this. Don’t any of you city
coots run away with th’ idea —an’, accordin'
to what’s in th’ paper, you got comic ideas
—because them kids come from th’ bush they
hadn’t ever seen ginger-beer! By cripes.
hadn’t they—an’ swilled kegs an’ buckets
of it, an’ ■ hop-beer, too, till they nearly
busted themselves of’en enough! And” —■ —
“And tell them, Dave,” Sarah prompted
eagerly, “that it’s all home-made beer they
get, too, and” —-—•
“Sh-sh shut up, c-c-can’t y’!” Joe com-
manded of Sarah, “an’ d-d-don’t ,be inter-
ruptin’ him !”
“By cripes, an’ it’s a lot better beer they,
get too,” Dave went on—“it’s all home-
made.”
“And they don’t have to pay sixpence a
glass at a counter,” Sarah; shouted in again,
“for what isn’t worth a ha’penny.”
Joe pulled Sarah away from the mike.
“Cripes, yes,” Dave picked up, “an’ it’s
home-made beer they get, a ri’ they don’t .have
to part out sixpence a nobbier for it. Are
y’ lookin?’ Well, it wasn’t much of a treat
to feed them kids on ginger-beer. An’, look
here, what did y’ think you was givin’ us
busliies about th’ nipper you reckoned never
see ice-cream and would sooner be home sky-
larkin’ with his pet billygoat than eatin’ it?
You must think down there that bush kids
make bedmates o’ billygoats—eh?”
“Give it to them, Dave,” from Sarah.
“Sh-hut up!” from Joe.
“By cripes. I’ll give it to them,” Dave
continued. “An’ 100k —are y’ still lookin’?
No one ever sees real bush kids messin’
about billygoats ; . it’s. on’y, th’ town kids who
can’t ride a.’orse or a calf, an’ don’t know
one when they sees it, that take to billy-
goats.”
“Here,” Dad, who was getting carried
away in spite of himself, suddenly inter-
rupted. “Why can’t y’ tell them about
something important, an’ not be talking about
darn goats an’ drinkin’ ginger-beer!” And
casting aside the paper he fell into thought.
Just then there was a loud knock on the
front door, and promptly Sarah admitted
Bob and Mary Carter, on whose faces were
looks of amusement.
“Hello! Is this what you’re at?” Bob
questioned, gazing first at the apparatus,
then at Dave.
“Could you hoar mo speakin when .you
was cornin’ along. Bob?” Dave, flushing with
mental exertion, asked proudly. _
“Could hear you a mile away, Bob lied
cheerfully, “but couldn’t make out what the
sound was swisliin’ over our heads like birds
flyin’ swift in th’ night.” ,
“Cripes!” Dave rejoiced. “They 11 be
hearin’ me in Victoria and them outlym
places as well.” .. . ,
“It’s a s-s-success, all right,” Joe claimed.
“And we’ll m-m-make y’ heard all over th
w-w-world before mornin’.”
“Before morning?” Bob echoed. “Before
ten minutes at the rate the sound was
travellin’ over our heads !” =
“Did you hear it, Mary?” Sarah asked
with enthusiasm. 1 ' 1
But Mary,, who in sincerity was an object-
lesson to most of her sex, only ‘ looked in
silence at her brother. To .her brother,
though, sly ■ humor was The salt of life.
“When you’ve finished your oration,
Dave,” he said,' “I’ll put- a word or two
over, too.” ,
“Right-oh, Bob,” Dave concurred.
“W-w-well, don’t anyone open-th’ d-d-door
. again,” Joe counselled, “an’ everyone
k-k-keep quiet,”
“Here, dammit, let me!” Dad broke out
- impulsively, ; and rising out of, liis chair
advanced on _the apparatus like .the leader
of an army. >
“Dad’s going, to talk!” Sarah announced
excitedly, pulling Dave aside.. *
“Well, sh-sh-shut up, can’t y’!” from Joe.
But Mother didn’t get excited. Slie
dropped her sewing and stuck her fingers
in her ears. .
“D : d-don’t speak too 1-1-loud,. Dad,” Joe
advised, “an’ they’ll hear you all th’
b-b-better.”
“They’ll hear me,” Dad answered with
thunder in his voice. Then: “Now, what
th’ devil’s alb this talk an’ writin’ to th’
papers on th’ openin’ of the Bridge, an’
givin’ it a noo name goin’ on about? An’
.spendin’ a million more of th’ people’s money
in celebratin’ the'openin’ of it with ’lumina-
tions, an’ fireworks, an’ flower-works, an’
lettin’ off cracllers an’ damfoolery! Who do
y’ think in th’ country cares what y’ call
it —whether y’ 'call ; it th’ Sydney Harbor
Bridge, or th’ Sydney Barber’s Bridge, or
any other darn bridge? It ain’t the only
bridge in ,th’ country, or th’ first bridge that
.were ever built, is it? An’ what darn use
is it . going to be to anyone except them
wiio wants to use it? An’ do y’ think th’
people in th’ country cares a darn whether
them livin’ at North Sydney,, or at any
other end of your Sydney, gets across ten
minutes sooner or later after' it opens, or
whether they never gets across at all? Do
y’? Eh?”
“Cripes, that’s th’ stuff to give ’em, Dad!”
from Dave. ,
“Keep a-a-quiet!”-from Joe." And broad
grins from Bob Carter. •
“An! who do you reckon cares., either,”
Dad roared on, “except th’ taxpayers who’ll
have to foot th’ bill for tli’ paintin’,' whether
you paintit blue or red, ,or yaller an’
green? An’ what in Heaven, or in Pinch-
gut, makes you all believe that it’s a hand-
some stru’ture an’ is a improvement to the
beauty of th’ harbor? Why, damme, it’s
only addin’ one more sore eye to th’ multi-
tood of mootilations that’s been disfigurin’
the Almighty’s handwork in landscape-
makin’ for a hundred year!”
“Now, now, Father, Father!” Mother in-
terrupted, “that’s enough. You’ll be making
yourself ill again. And when they can’t hear
a word you say!”
“What?” Dad stared at her, and started
wiping perspiration from his face.
“You know they can’t hear you,” Mother
repeated.
Dad suddenly became himself again, and,
turning from the “mike” in silence, dropped
back into his chair and reached for the
paper.
Sea Echoes.
Oh, where is good old Reuben gone,
That celebrated tailor
Whose name was once the lips upon
Of ev’ry proper sailor V
Reuben’s gone,
Reuben’s gone!
He’s gone to bide where dead ships ride
That watch no wind and wait no tide;
The grave is long and deep and wide
Of Reuben Ranzo.
Oh, where is Sally, Sally Brown,
And her mulatto daughter,
Who’d lovers white and lovers brown
Across the brave blue water V
Sally Brown!
Sal-ly Brown!
Sing soft and low, all ye who know—■
Oh, wey-hey-ho ! We’ll roll and go
Around the Horn to Callao
With Sally Brown.
Now, where’s that gallant Yankee ship
With her star-spangled banner,
That down the. Channel coast did slip
In famous fighting manner?
Ahoy, Paul Jones!
Paul Jones, ahoy!
The great guns roar, the flintlocks pour—
Decks red with gore—their hot slugs o’er,
But you will heed them nevermore,
Brave John Paul Jones!
Oh, heave away, ye sons of guns,
The stiff fore-braces hauling!
Hurrah, my John! the bullgine runs
And Rio Grande is calling.
• Now, heave away !
Aye, heave a-way !
On less we drown, we’ll don the gown
Of high renown in Rio town —
We’ll blow them up ; we’ll blow them down
In Rio!
Oh, bullies of the Blackball Line,
And deckhands smart and dandy,
With handy Jim from Caroline—
So handy, boys, so handy!
All bound away
We sail to-day!
Farewell, sweet maid, our anchor’s weighed,
The crimps are paid, her course is laid
Along the roaring tracks o’ trade
That Westward lay.
Old Stormaiong, you Shanandore,
So- cheerily and canty, .
The sailormen will sing no more,
In rolling rhyme and chanty!
No lilting song,
Fair ports along,
The landsman’s ear at dawn will hear
For far and near, fast, year by year,
The old windjammers disappear;
Soon all are, gone.
And Bill he bunks in Burma green,
And Tom sleeps snug in Hilo;
They dance no more, tlieir drinks between,
The hornpipe or the reel-oh;
And no winds blow,
And no ships go.
But down below, > sung soft and slow,
Its echoes flow, this song ye know:
“My love lies in the Lowlands low,
The Lowlands.
My heart is in the Lowlands low,
The Lowlands.”
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


the BERNARD
CRONIN STORY-
WRITING COURSE
10 LESSONS.
Mr. Bernard Cronin, whose latest novel,
“Bracken,” before being published by
Hodder and Stoughton, London, ran through
The Bullet# as a serial, is conducting a
Story-writing Course and is doing it, as
is his habit, efficiently and thoroughly.
Mr. Cronin’s course is, indeed, a master-
piece "of expert practicality. The components
of a story—theme, plot, openings, dialogue,
characterisation and description—the very
names of which excite the imagination, and
the awe, of literary aspirants,' are con-
sidered in detail with a wealth of illustration
and practical advice that at once removes
many of the more serious obstacles from
the path of the beginner.
The instruction is given in ten lessons
and three supplements. Mr. Cronin’s own
enthusiasm is so great, his sympathy so
large and his handling of the practice work
sent in so competently confident that the
interest of his pupils never- flags, and they
very soon make a good job of every piece
of work they send in. They are helped the
more inasmuch as they are never kept wait-
ing for their revised work.
It is true that pupils have to work. Mr.
Cronin is not content with less than the
best they can do; and neither are they
allowed to rest content until he lias, __ by
instruction and illustrative revision of parts,
trained them to polish and repolish until
the whole is a finished piece of work truly
expressive of the writer’s intention and
individuality.
Lat6r, during the advanced lessons, the
pupil is sometimes asked to return to such
a story, and in the light of his —and fre-
quently her—-added experience and increased
knowledge improve it to publication stand-
ard. Mr. Cronin is most insistent, however,
on his pupils submitting to editors none but
good work. Not, of course; the best they
ultimately will do, but work of such a stand-
ard as will preclude the possibility of their
being classed by editors as permanent medio-
crities.
The results are becoming increasingly
apparent. Although Mr. Cronin has been
accepting pupils for only a few months many
of his xpupils have already had stories
accepted and published. One of these stories
was published in The Bulletin of March
2, and was described as “a brilliant story.”
In February another was featured in "The
Listener-In,” Melbourne. The writer of the
latter story has not yet finished the course,
and the writer of the first had had acceptances
by The 'Bulletin and “Sydney Morning
Herald” before he had finished the course.
Stories by other pupils who have not yet
completed the course have appeared in the
“Australian Journal” and several weekly
papers, and editors have asked to see more
of the work of some of these young writers,
Mr. Cronin’s success as a teacher is due
to a combination of forces. He knows his
subject. He has published several novels in
London and New York, and has had short
stories published in every part of the
English-speaking world. In all lie has had
hundreds of short, stories published.
In the lesson papers and in his revision
of the work of pupils his methods are
orderly, his manner direct and liis matter
clear and definite. In criticising a story
he takes first things first, dealing with the
real essence of the story and showing its
inherent worth as an idea to be developed.
Itemised criticisms follow, illustrated by the
remodelling of parts. Frankness and honesty
of purpose are the substance of each criti-
cism, and all Mr. Cronin’s relations with
his pupils are colored by his own early
experience as a writer. His object is to
save each pupil much of the time and effort
and many of the discouragements which try
the strength of every writer who has to find
his own way amongst the pitfalls in the
patli that leadsi to publication.
In addition to teaching story-writing, Mr.
Cronin criticises the MSS. of writers who
have had only a limited success. This
critical service hag proved of great value
to many whose work, through minor faults
of construction or presentation, has just
failed to get publication.
Mr. Cronin’s Story-writing Course is fully
described in an illustrated pamphlet, “Writ-
ing to Win.” Copies will be sent post free
to any reader of The Bulletin wlm would
like one. Those specially interested in the
criticism of MSS. are requested to mention
the fact.
The services Mr. Cronin offers to writers
should be known to everyone interested in
writing for publication. Letters can be
addressed to Mr. Bernard Cronin, 39S
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
The Key to a Man’s Career
Dr. Norwood says that “a proper grasp of
Pelmanism would save any life from futility.'*
DR. F. W. NORWOOD, D.D.,
the well-known minister of
the City Temple, London,
is an ardent admirer of Pelman-
ism.
He, like Sir Herbert Austin,
who also speaks highly of Pel-
manism, is one of the noted
Australians who have achieved
distinction in the Old World.
“Pelmanism,” Dr. Norwood
says, “is sound Psychology and
an admirable system of Mind-
training. It is more than
mere Memory-training. There is no co-ordination of
knowledge without a retentive memory, but the mind is
more than memory. It involves the whole man.
“Pelmanism reduces to a coherent system what every
person who lives intelligently and strongly must at least
partly carve out for himself. A proper grasp of it
would save any life from futility, and would cause many
to discover powers latent within themselves of the exist-
ence of which they had not dreamed. It teaches that
man has the key to his own career, and enables many to
find the key itself which, for want of self-knowledge,
had lain undiscovered.”
If you wish to live “intelligently and strongly,” to
impress your personality on others, to_ advance surely
and firing along the path to responsibility and authority,
you must develop certain qualities and attributes inherent
in every ambitious man: —
m
xW
Dr. IT. W. NORWOOD,
D.D.
Concentration
Judgment
Decision
Will-power
Initiative
Self-confidence
Presence of Mind
Organising Power
Courage
Cheerfulness
and a Reliable Memory.
The development of these strong, positive, vital
qualities contributes to one’s earning capacity, makes
for security and leads to a full and happy life.
There are Pelmanists in every walk of life. Because
it is fundamental, Pelmanism helps them all:
AN ACCOUNTANT states that Pelmanism lias shown him
“how to overcome that paralysing feeling of inferiority.”
A SHOP-ASSISTANT reports that he has secured a better
position and attributes this to Pelmanism.
A FARM-WORKER writes: “Thanks to Pelmanism, I am
feeling more confident and more alive.’’
A MANAGER reports an increase in self-confidence, “which
has brought me the respect of my colleagues.”
AN ENGINEER writes: “I feel especially an increase in Self-
Confidence, which gives professional status.”
A CLEEK writes that he has improved in memory, concentra-
tion and will-power, and that his mind is quicker and
more alert.
A DOCTOR writes that he has improved his powers of Obser-
vation. Concentration and Memory, and has increased his
Self-Confidence.
AN INSURANCE CLERK writes: “Financially I am over 30
per cent, better off than before; mentally and physically
1 am hundreds per cent, better off.”
A WOMAN CLERK writes: “I can concentrate for quite a long
period without toy mind wandering. I observe things
far more quickly, and have ever so much more confidence’
in myself and my abilities. My thoughts are far more
orderly.”
A TEACHER writes: “This Course has had a remarkable
effect on my physical and mental health. What pleases
me most is the certainty that I have lost my fear. My
self-confidence has returned, and my whole outlook on life
seems to be reconstructed.”
A CLERGYMAN writes: “1 have,experienced much benefit and
wish I had undertaken the Course earlier in life. Had I
known at the age of 30 certain things which I know now
—largely through the I’elman lessons —I think I could have
avoided one or two painful.' nervous breakdowns To
summarise (and employ a fashionable word), I think I
have gained a better orientation towards life.”
A BANK CLERK writes: “This Course has enabled me to see
clearly what I want in life and how to get it. it has
taken'me out of the rut. It has shown me that, whatever
the circumstances may he, life holds infinite possibilities of
enjoyment and improvement.”
Thousands of similar letters could be printed did
space permit.
You will be interested in the wealth of positive and
helpful information in the 76 illustrated pages of “The
Efficient Mind,” a copy of which will be posted free to
you on request.
Pelmanism is quite easy and simple to follow. It
takes up only a short time daily. The books are printed
in a handy “pocket size,” so that you can study them
when travelling, or in odd moments during the day.
Even the busiest man or woman can spare a few minutes
daily for Pelmanism.
Post the form below to-day to the Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and
by return you will receive a free copy of The Efficient
Mind.” Call or write for this free book to-day.
“THE EFFICIENT MIND.”
Tlic Pehnan Course of Training is fully described in “The Efficient Mind,” which contains 76 pages of matter and
illustrations of very great interest. Copies are posted free. Call or write for one. Inquiries are regarded as confidential
communications. The Pehnan Institute has no outdoor representatives.
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE
for the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and Personality
3 GLOUCESTER HOUSE, corner of Market Street and Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
CUT OUT AND POST TO-DAY.
To the Secretary, THE PELMAN INSTITUTE, |
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
Please send your free book, “The Efficient Mind.” In asking for it I incur no obligation. I
Name • • .
Postal Address |
320.
I
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GR.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/«
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/»
ck
k
a<>
o°
e
S e
r
A
t^ v '^
©V
#:
tT
.•* ..* ..* 'JV’


TYRE SENSATION ujj- 1932
.VS\\\\\\\\\\\\\\W\\\\\W\\\V
t L
1
SSJS 5
#
i#
PS
%
-
B
*
Si
S'
M
m
S#
s
*
s
m
m
m
1
ii
s
s
mm
n»8
m
MB
m
s
s
1
rS
\
Sf
s
>vv
r M
GREAT
IMPROVEMENTS
...JVo Increase in Price
1 Its centre non-skid design is cut 10% deeper.
2> Its shoulder non-skid design is 50% deeper.
3 Its non-skid blocks are placed with wider grooves.
4 It has full centre traction, eliminating the sub-
merged centre rib.
5 Its non-skid blocks have slightly rounded points
for slower wear.
£ Its riding ribs are braced on the outside, as on
the latest truck tyres.
Outer non-skid blocks are braced on outer edges,
as on latest truck tyres.
0 The sidewalls are embellished with two decora-
tive ribs.
9 The outer non-skid blocks are strikingly prismed
into the sidewalls.
10 In s * zes cross sections are made equal to
Heavy Duty measurements.
11 These changes in design make the whole tyre
heavier—bigger.
™‘ NEW
IMPROVED
GOODYEAR
STANDARD ALL-WEATHER
WfHEN Goodyear brings out some-
thing new, it means something
better. And the New Improved Standard
All-Weather is distinctly better than
its justly famed predecessor.
There is longer wear, extra traction
and added safety in this New 1932
Model Ty re.
Note the deeper cut centre and
shoulder blocks of the tread this
means additional security for a longer
time than ever before.
Note also the extension of the tread
blocks down the sidewalls. These sharp
tapering prisms insure added traction
in mud, on soft roads, in deep ruts,
around curves ... at vital moments
when that extra grip is most needed.
Nothing will add more to the smartness
of a motor car than this modern,
stylish tyre with its rugged carcass of
extra-elastic Supertwist Cord, and its
famous diamond-shaped blocks of the
road-gripping All-Weather Tread.
It is truly "the Tyre Sensation of
1932”. Your local Goodyear Dealer
will gladly show it to you.
C7-*3-3*
&
MADE IN AUSTRALIA I
