

New Kodaks ■*
roR Christmas
KODAKS SIX-20 & SIX-16
Newer, smarter, slimmer, trimmer, the favorite gift presented in
new and distinctive form. For pictures x inches, prices
from 70/-; for pictures 2| x inches, prices from 85/-.
NEW CONTINENTAL KODAKS— KODAK RANG A
Only E5/ISA for this precision miniature camera! Takes sixteen
pictures, size If x inches, without reloading, with f/4.5 lens
in focusing mount. In soft leather purse. Price £5/15/-
e
è
é
gyfry sv.-
m
VEST POCKET KODAK
Modal B; slips into a man’s
pocket or girl’s handbag. Takes
marvellous pictures size If x
2f inches. This handy little
treasure would make a wel-
come gift for anyone .... 26/6
ê
■
m
BEAU BROWNIE,
with its matching case
and decorated front,
makes a particularly ap-
propriate Christmas
thought. Price .... 30/-
ë
ē
BOY SCOUT KODAK
The official camera of the
organisation and carrying
the Scout emblem in relief.
With waterproof case. Just
the gift that every
wants! Price ... 35/-
%
m
GIRL GUiDE KODAK
Specially designed for Girl
Guides. In dark blue, with
the official emblem of the
organisation in relief with
matching case for belt.
Pictures 2| x l{. Price, 35/-.
ĕ
ė
i mm
m
COLORED BOX BROWNIES
are now offerer! at the same price as Regular
models in black. With a choice of five gay
holiday colors, it makes a truly delightful gift.
No. 2, for pictures
2i x ins 14/6
e
CINE-KODAK
Model BB Junior. The
family gift that keeps
everyone young that
provides thrills that last
for a lifetime. Start mak-
ing home movies this
Christmas. F/3.5 lens.
Price £l4
e
CINE-KODAK EIGHT
represents an entirely
new principle that tfuts
the cost of movie-making
by two-thirds welcome
news for those who fee!
they cannot afford regu-
lar 16 mm. equipment!
Full details on request.
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS,AND
KODAK
(AUSTRALASIA)
379 George Street, Sydney; "The Block," 284 Collins Street. Melbourne. Cl ;' 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane;
37 Bundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; 662 Hay Street. Perth ; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba;
East Street, Rockhampton ; Flinders Street. Townsville. ‘
Also stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND LTD. 162 Queen Street. Auckland ;40 Princess Street, Dunedin :
294 Lambton Quay. .Wellington; 681 Colombo. Street, Christchurch.
The Bulletin
e
Vol. 53.—N0. 2754.
Wednesday, November 23, 1932.
Price 6d.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'J’HE 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
lUu
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street. Melbourne. ‘
Please send, without oblination, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writ bin £
advertised in the Sydney BULLETIN',
My Name
My Address
S.B. 882
Stop Itckinq
-and Sleep!
#
What marvelous relief!
Just bathe with Cutieura
Soap, anoint with Cutf-
Cura Ointment and the
irritation, itching and burn-
ing of pimples, rashes and
eczema are soothed and
healing soon follows. Mil-
lions throughout the world
know Cutieura’s reputa-
tion for results and use it
with success for all kinds
of skin irritations.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Australian Depot; R. Towns & Co. s
Sydney, N. S. W.
A JOURNALIST’S LIBRARY,
including books by Cabell, I>. H, Lawrence,
Shaw, Barrie, Kipling, Wilde and others, at
low prices. A number of these are first
editions.
H. A. EVANS & SON,
358 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Specialists in Amt ration a.)
“THE AGE”*
Established ISSIi.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
You do not leave it to chance in choosing a
newspaper for your advertising campaigns. You
require evidence of its stability and inquire
fully into its claims for- preference before
entrusting it with your sales message.
No discriminate buyer of newspaper space can
afford to overlook
“THE AGE”
when contemplating future allocations for
Victoria.
Make your first, preference “THE AGE,” and
you will be convinced that in choosing this
medium to broadcast your sales message
throughout the State your choice has been
fully justified.
“The Age” CIRCULATES in the
homes and offices of 115,000 sub-
scribers daily, and publishes over ONE
MILLION Advertisements annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office. 43 Hunter Street.
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUM IQ WOMENI
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia Blouse, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ONE
ADVERTISEMENT
BRINGS MANY
THOUSANDS
OF POUNDS.
A large contracting
firrn, Hornibrook High-
way Ltd., advertised
their prospectus in all
Brisbane daily papers,
and called for capital.
The one advertisement
obtained magnificent
financial response
OVER 99 PER CENT.
OF WHICH WAS
THROUGH
The
Brisbane
Courier,
Member of Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
Representative:—
Robt. D. Fisher—Bsoo7,
74 Pitt St., Sydney.
hat a market
for the manufacturer is presented in
a big centre. Thousands of poten-
tial customers gathered together
on a fraction of land. Whole-
sale and retail distributors
centred in accessible points.
A concentrated market for luxuries
with a surrounding trade area in-
satiable in its demands. This market is
penetrated thoroughly and successfully by
“THE TELEGRAPH”
Brisbane s Leading Home Newspaper.
The manufacturer is more
often Wrong than righ
when he says, “My busi-
ness is different.” Often
it is exactly that differ-
ence which is fairly
crying out for expres-
sion in print.
“Is that so with
you ?
m
I
A VAX 3HI SQV3I
HJTaOll3lt
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Essayists
An attraction of the essay is that it has
the personal interest of an autobiography.
A novelist' may handle the problems of a
set of people with insight and sympathy,
yet keep so far in the background as to
be almost indiscernible. Most of the
moderns pursue this method. Anyone could
reconstruct a complete Dickens from “Oliver
Twist” or a Trollope from any of the novels
of the Barchester series. But what sort of
person is the author of “The Waves”? Who
could see Aldous Huxley in “Crome Yellow”
or Evelyn Waugh in “Black Mischief”?
The essayist has to drop objectivity and
come into the open with confessions of
faith, enthusiasm and prejudice as a first
condition of success. Affectations and high-
browisms are as out of place here as they
would be in general conversation.
A Woman’s Essays
Virginia Woolf was so self-consciously
mystical and profound in “The Waves”
that she exasperated some and puzzled
othe'rs. In The Common Reader (Second
Series, Hogarth Press; 10s. 6d.) she is as
deliberately plain-spbken as she has been
deliberately obscure in so many of her
novels. The reader is warned of what to
expect from the beginning; the inspiration
of her title is Dr. Johnson’s “I rejoice to
concur with the common reader.” Miss
Woolf has a tremendous vocabulary, and a
poet’s instinct for the right word, but clarity
of expression doesn’t come easy to her. Per-
haps for that reason she has turned to
France for her critical style. Whole pages
of her reviews might, have been written
by Taine. She is.- discussing a- famous pas-
sage in “Richard Feverel.”
We forget that Richard is Richard and
that Lucy is Lucy; they are youth; the
world runs molten gold. The writer is a rliap-
sodist, a poet then ; but we have not yet
exhausted all the elements in this first
novel. We have to reckon with the author
himself. He has a mind stuffed with ideas,
hungry for argument.
Not only is her method of approach that
of the great French critic of English litera-
ture ; the very cadences are his. In addition
to its appraisals of Swift, De Quincey,
Hazlitt, Donne and others, this interesting
book has a number of essays pure and
simple, each of which reveals some essen-
tial characteristic of the writer, as every
good essay should. In “How Should One
Read a Book?” she pictures the Day of
Judgment, and herself and the others who
have loved books coming for their reward.
As the Almighty sees them approaching,
their books under their arms, he says to
Peter (“not without certain envy”), “Look,
these need no reward. We have nothing to
give them here. They have loved reading.”
It tells book-lovers more about her nature
than all her romances.
The Writings of “Y.Y."
Robert Lynd, whose Rain, Rain , Go to
Spain, has been published by Methuen and
Co. at 5/-, is in the tradition of Addison;
a born essayist and a master of his craft.
He writes essays as glitteringly and effort-
lessly as the sparks fly upward. Week
after week they appear in the famous weekly
which shares him with the London “News-
Chronicle,” whose literary section he edits,
and week after rveek he maintains his own
astonishing standard. He is an odd blend;
an Ulsterman bom and bred with the wit
of a Dubliner and the good temper and
tolerance of the best type of Englishman.
Humor of a benign order and a certain
clear-headedness which he uses with deadly
effect are his strong suits. In “The Sins
of Society” he examines a book which was
published half a century ago by the Rev. T.
do Witt Talmage of America. Talmage
wrote of the theatre as many modern
moralists do of the cinema, but more
colorfully. Do persons of “spotless virtue”
go to the theatre? he asked.
No. No. Husbands who have lost all love
for home go there. Horse-jockeys go there.
Spendthrifts go there. Drunkards go there.
Lost women go there. They hang over the
gallery and ogle and smirk and shout aloud
in the applause tha't greets a brilliant
passage, or one that caricatures religion or
sneers at virtue.
Here is the divine’s notion of a ladv who
became “unfitted for the duties of wife,
mother, sister, daughter” through novel-
reading :
There she is, hair dishevelled, countenance
vacant, cheeks pale, hands trembling, burst-
ing into tears at
midnight over the
fate of some unfor-
tunate lover; in
the daytime, when
she ought to be
busy, staring by
the half-hour at
nothing; biting her finger-nails into the
quick.
Mr. Lynd has a way of demonstrating that
this kind of thing never goes out of fashion,
though it may change its form. Sport is
the corrupting influence of our day. People
say: “You can see how demoralising pony-
racing [or tin-hare racing or boxing or what-
ever it may be] is if you look at the
faces of the patrons.”
It was exactly the same thing that Tal-
mage said of the faces of the people who
go to the theatre and read novels.... If
you dislike a thing you dislike the faces of
those who are addicted to it. The atheist
dislikes the faces of priests; the teetotaller
dislikes the faces of publicans.
you feel sure, doesn’t dislike any-
body’s face. He may laugh at your face
in his disarming Irish way, but then he
has the saving English virtue of being able
to laugh still more heartily at his own
face. A most engaging character.
A Victorian
R. S. Garnett,, who wrote Odd Memories
(Blackwood; 7s. 6d.) shortly before he died
last July, belonged to a generation which
has almost vanished. He was a bibliophile
and an admirer of good writing who had
been meeting famous writers since his
childhood in the late-Victorian era. The
articles in this book deal with all kinds of
literary experiences, some personal, others
related to him by members of his family.
His father once heard Swinburne read a new
poem in the home of a friend.
The triumphant close reached, Mr. Swin-
burne was assisted down from the table and
felicitated, each of his hearers letting fall
a word: —
“Glorious!”
“Grand!”
“Divine!”
“Incomparable!”
The poet was rewarded with punch, and
presently disappeared. Not till the party
was over did they find him slumbering
deeply in an upstairs room.
“Will you take Swinburne’s feet?” said
Marston’s voice. And my father found him-
self clutching tlte feet of the illustrious being
whose other eild was held by Marston.
He tells a charming story about Christina
Rossetti. A girl, and a beautiful one at
that, asked him to find a publisher for
her poems. He was with her when he “sud-
denly became conscious of a tiny lady”
(Christina was a family friend) who asked
him to read one of the poems.
Rather badly than well, for my voice
faltered, I began to read Eleanor’s poem to
the author of “Goblin Market.”
As I reached the end of each stanza she
inclined her head gently.
Then when I had done. —addressing Eleanor,
“You have written a most beautiful poem,”
she said; and smiling, added. “Dear sister
poet, as I must c.all you, I should like to
congratulate you and, if I may, kiss you.”
You see the amiable, lovable old gossip he
was. He also had humor, and a style that
is fragrant with the courtesies and reticences
of a more mannerly age than ours. Not
a great writer in any. sense, blit a very
charming one.
RED PAGE.
An Australian Poet
Cuckpoz Con trey, by Kenneth Slessor
(Frank Johnson. Sydney). Here is no dead
Parnassus: but a Beardsley volcano, val-
aneed with smoke of hippogriffs, and spout-
ing jewelled ear-rings, bunches of rapiers,
feathers, masks, bracelets, lanterns, barrels
of wine and figures of Death.
Yet Slessor is not exclusively Orpheus to
a cloak-and-dagger generation; and,
although still within coo-ee of boyhood, his
knowledge of ways and conditions of twen-
tieth-century life becomes often apparent.
He sings of love, too—love that belongs to
all ages:—
In tile autumn I came
Where spring had used me better.
Like crystal water, falling from a fountain,
the words of the verse ~echo his loneliness.
He has returned to the gardens
.... to the dead grove
Where we had kissed ; to the Tristania tree
Where we had kissed awkwardly.
Y very thing is the same; yet everything is
different. The old house loses its resem-
blance to Headlong Hall and becomes
... .truly, and without escape,
THE NATIONAL HERBARIUM,
Repeated dryly in roman capitals,
THE NATIONAL HERBARIUM,
Inexorable lot. We read the painted letters:
smell the mixture of flowers with leaves;
and know the sun is cold.
On another page he has included, within
a sonnet’s length, feelings too deeply corn-
(Red Page continued on page d.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—PIain Facts , Open Dealing.
"THE SENIOR STORE"
Anthony Horderns’ offer
GIFT BOOKS FOR EVERYONE
And all reasonably pricedl
What could be a more pleasing Christmas gift than a well-selected
book?
Books. . . .always safe. . . .always correct. . . .and always welcome!
This year, cease wondering and wandering—and mark the happy
occasion with a gift that will give lasting pleasure.... a book!
WARNES
ADVENTURE
for BOOK
boys
Price, each, 3/6
Postage, Bd.
ues fortheTinies
RING O'ROSES SERIES
n
&
THE FOURTH ROOK. OF Si* STORIES
CASSELL Aho Co L to
lw*0«lrl TOJOHIo.ISertWItJ 'YIM«J
Price, each, 1/-
Postage, 3d.
Price, each, 67-
Postage, 6d.
RIVER
TES
P
Price, each, 2/6
Postage, 6d.
-ffrffttrirftfhrjt
ou
s
tr,ff I
nix
Price, 1/9; Postage, 9d.
Price, each, 2/6
Postage, 4d.
'AMONG
THE
USHRANG]
G'A'Heni
Price, each, 1/9
Postage, 4cf.
az
ft
£
COVINGTON CLARKE
Price, each, 4/6
Postage, sd.
E
i«
COVINGTON CLARKE.
Price, each, 4/6
Postage, 6d.
it r. _ !>/7 1
Price, 10d.; Postage, 3d.
SOME
INTERESTING
VOLUMES
By HAMILTON
Lord Frederick Hamilton. These
delightful volumes are most in-
teresting tales of travel, history
and biographies. Price, 6/9 each;
Post, 6d.
The Days Before Yesterday.
Here, There and Everywhere.
The Vanished Pomps of Yester-
day.
gißLe großies
Price, 2/9; Postage, sd.
MY BOOK:
OF STORY
PICTURES.
a
n
Price, 3/6; Postage, 6d,
'lf/
HOLIDAY'S AT
THE SEASIDE
i m
M
“a®
**hrif*
ftin
Price, 3/3; Postage, 6d.
And..... not illustrated
Works of H. V. Morton
“The Call of England.”
“The Heart of London.’
“The Nights of London.
“In Search of England.’
“In Search of Ireland.”
“In Search of Scotland.’
“In Search of Wales.”
“The Spell of London.”
Price 12/6, post. Bd.
Price 6/- , post. 4d.
Price 6/- , post. 4d.
Price 12/6, post. Bd.
Price 12/6, post. Bd.
Price 12/6, post. Bd.
Price 12/6, post. Bd.
Price 6/- , post. 4d.
Biography, Reminiscences
“March or Die.” By Michael Donovan (ex-
Legionaire 21,748). This is the true narrative of
a man who enlisted in the French Foreign Legion,
and after experiences that daunt description,
made his escape at the risk of death. Price., 8/-
(Postage, 5d.)
“The Great Victorians.” Edited by H. J. and
Hugh Massingham. A new critical estimate of
the outstanding figures of the Victorian era by
the famous writers of to-day. Forty contributors.
Price 11/6
(Postage, lOd. extra.)
“The Story of San Michele.” By Axel Munthe.
The autobiography of a doctor, whose keen
understanding, sympathy and irresistible humor
make a delightful book. Price 10/-
(Postage, lOd. extra.)
Essays and Belles Lettres
By FRANK W. BOREHAM, Tasmanian Preacher
and Essayist.
“A Bunch of Everlastings” ....Price, 8/-; Post., 6d.
“The Blue Flame” Price, 6/9; Post., 6d.
“When Swans Fly High” Price, 6/9; Post., 6d.
“Witch’s Brewing” (1932 Title). .Price, 6/9; Post., 6d.
POCKET EDITION, Cloth, 3/6 each. Postage, 4d.
“Faces in the Fird" “Mountains in the Mist”
“The Golden Milestone” “Mushrooms on the Moor”
“The iSuggage of Fife” “Bubble and Roseleaves”
Price, Bd. each; Postage, 3d.
“An Arch of Boses” “My Manse in Maoriland”
“Green Chair” “The Pressed Nasturtium”
“Honey Out of the Bock” “Song Among the Stars”
“Little Palace Beautiful” “A Village Lattice”
(Books —Second Floor. Postage as quoted.)
Anthony Horderns
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
SYDNEY
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.


Willara
è
THERE If NO WOOD
IN THIf
BATTERY
Convincing proof of Willard Battery satis-
faction is found in the fact that more Willards
are sold than any other Battery made!
The plates in which electricity is generated in a
storage battery must be separated, positive from
negative, by an insulating material.
Wood separators usually give satisfactory service
under average requirements, but hard usage,
vibration, and the results of overcharging often
wear out wood separators before the battery
plates have been used up.
This is the most common cause of battery failure.
Insure against it with a Thread Rubber Willard.
Its insulation is made of threaded rubber, rein-
forced with hard rubber ribs.
There is no wood whatever used in a Willard
Thread Rubber Battery.
é
STORAGE
BATTERIES
Motor Supplies, Limited,
Brisbane, Rockhampton,
Townsville.
Westcott Hazell & Co., Limited,
Sydney and Newcastle.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Brooklands Accessories Pty., Limited,
Melbourne.
Automobile Electric Service, Limited,
Adelaide.
Atkins (W.A.), Limited,
Perth.
Robt. Nettlefold Pty., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.


h
LNRD
DON’T WASTE LEISURE HOURS
In your spare time you can learn to Sketch in a way
which will amaze you and your friends, and, what is
more, you can become a high-salaried COMMERCIAL.
ARTIST at the same time.
Work is a pleasure to an artist. Imagine a job in
which all you do is sketch all day. Fancy being able to
draw a salary for what men and women have long
regarded as a pastime.
Throughout these difficult times it is wonderful to be
able to feel that you are never without a means of earn-
ing money. The market for illustrations is always open.
The ART TRAINING INSTITUTE always ascertains
by means of a Test Drawing whether a person is suited
for a Commercial Art Career before undertaking his or
her training.
If you are fond of drawing, copy the above drawing
(which is a specially prepared and difficult Test) and
send it to us for FREE CRITICISM; then if we consider
you sufficiently talented, we will send you without cost a
70-page book as an introduction to this Profession.
Do not forget to add your Name and Address; also
state Age and Present Occupation for our guidance.
4RI TMIPIIING IWWITUtt P^Cg
e
prehended to be mistaken for the assumed
emotions of a poet forced to sing.
The crow’s voice trembles down the sky
As if this nitrous flange of stone
Wept suddenly with such a cry.
Lines with a cutting edge to make us
weep: they bring before us a country
“graped with dung.”
Past gullies that no longer Bpvv
And wells that nobody can find.
A representation through invisible media;
as near to actuality as it is possible to be.
Slessor has a special gift for remembering
into life things of the past....exemplified
by “Post-Roads.”
And smells of hackneys, mohair sour with damp,
Leather and slopped madeira, partridge-pies
Long buried under floors; and yawning Fares
With bumping flap-dark spatulas of cards
“Knave takes the ten —oh, God. I. wish that it,
I wish that it was Guildford”
At first sight, “bumping flap-dark spatulas
of cards” seems meretricious cleverness,
fluked on the typewriter; then, afterwards,
retained: but it certainly isn’t. “Flap-dark”
must allude to sudden obscurations of the
carriage-lamp, owing to positions of “hands”
while wheels clattered from rut to rut.
Now we arrive at the heart and well-
spring of the poet’s high endeavor.
“Five Visions of Captain Cook” becomes
the noblest memorial this sailor ever had;
and the future must find it hard to produce
a better. Quotations, whether taken care-
fully or at random, would spoil the value
and count about equal with a chip cut from
the neck of Shakspeare’s chair.
Of Slessor’s book itself remains this firm
impression: times have changed favorably
since the ’sixties—since the ’seventies—:
and where, once, half a dozen men offered
matches to light a gaselier, a youngster of
our own period lays his finger to a button;
and, immediately, it is as though we had
been given new eyes, new minds; and,
through consequences, a new universe.
HUCH McCRAE.
The Book and the Ring
Louis Esson, after his last trip to Eng-
land, startled many innocent Red Page
readers by suggesting that there was in
London a close corporation of book review-
ers; that disinterested criticism was hard to
come by; that much of the criticism was
nothing of the sort, and that the writer
without a Bunty to pull the strings was
bound to have a rough trot—or words to
that effect.
Then the Book Society appeared, and with
it a number of people who set themselves
up as judges of what novels ought to be,
and with the ability to impose upon the
unwary a “book of the month.” This clique
has done much to kill what little critical
faculty the layman was wont to exert. It
is a sorry fact’ that since “books of the
month” have become fashionable book
criticism has become feebler than ever. It is
painful to read the splurges of the re-
viewers of the London popular press. Their
passion for superlatives and their unquench-
able lust for finding a “genius” a week are
tragic. Even Hugh Walpole has pulled the
literary leg of many an English reader with
signed boosts.
Now comes Frank Swinnerton, novelist
and critic of parts, to add his modicum of
admonition to his fellows in criticism. Yet
he keeps his tongue in his cheek at times.
He does real service in discussing the “awful
fate of being a professional writer, that is, a
thin-skinned, nervy scribe, who writes
books in order that hysterical critics may
bury him with absurd praise or abuse him
with incredible vulgarity.” He gives a
bright picture of the literary agent—the
genius who is able at all times and in all
places to collect a perennial 10 per cent,
of the scribe’s earnings. But he does not
go out of his way to rail at the Book
Society, though he is virile on the matter of
the notorious literary cliques of reviewers,
and he states with conviction that prac-
tically the only disinterested reviewing
comes from the provinces. Cecil Roberts
flays the critic praising a book from the
house of which he is himself a paid reader.
And justly, for the number of books that
are reviewed hot from the press' by these
publishers’ readers-crities to the immediate
exclusion of better stuff is a glaring and
growing scandal.
It is a truism that the mortality among
good books- is appalling, while the immor-
tality among bad books is ludicrous. Every
scribbler ought to read Swinnerton’s
“Authors and the Book Trade” (Howe; ss.
in London), even if only to learn that he
can never make headway without someone
in the right place to pull the strings. Mr.
Swinnerton has merely caressed the bubble
in places; it is time somebody lanced the
sore. Whatever we may think of Australian
newspaper criticism—and I agree with John
Dailey that most of it is rubbish—at least
it wears an air of honesty, and is not flag-
rantly “inspired.” But London’s “Book
and the Ring” is as old as the century.
K.S.
Wreaths for an Originator
In two recent books of Australian verse
occur long and sprightly greetings to. The
Bulletin. “Father Bulletin” is the heading
for Mary Gilmore’s lines, while R. H.
Croll describes an apociyphal “Bulletin
Gathering” at Fasoli’s, Melbourne, giving
the firm date as 30/7/1907. Croll begins
with memories of those Bulletin writers
who had died years before: then he pro-
ceeds to name and place those who fore-
gathered on that date—O’Dowd, Dyson,
Quinn, Lawson, Brady, “Banjo” Paterson,
“Steele Rudd,” Bedford, Grant Hervey,
“Kodak,” Dennis, Tom Collins and Hugh
McCrae. Did one roof shelter, even for a
night, all those heads? A fantasy? Then
why the arbitrary date?
And Den, with an eye on the town and the busli,
Rescues his Bill from the Angel’s push.
Had Dennis done his rescue-work as early
as that, even before Little Lon had been
charted as ground for ballads? On the
whole, one has to decide that the date is
a sort of joke. One more protest: Mr.
Croll rhymed “Bulletin” on win and thin,
but this is hardly an Australian rhyme.
Tom Collins—whose verses are too much
forgotten—says of our bushmen,
Their Bible is the “Bulleteeu.”
Mary Gilmore’s verses are written as if in
The Bulletin office itself, and of a date
further back: 'Ceorge-street was George-
street, then.’ In the copy before me, Mary
Gilmore has dated each poem. This one
was written in 1920: it is a wonder it was
not quoted at The Bulletin jubilee. The
verses have as refrain, “We laughed in
rhyme,” and it is important to recognise
that in The Bulletin light verse and black-
and-white have been two sides of the coin,
two forms of cartoon and caricature.
NETTLE PALMER.
A Satchel of Books
The Kingfisher Library consists of works
by leading English writers in pocket-size
volumes at Bs. 6d. each. Ed. Arnold and
Co. are the publishers. E. M. Forster’s
“Howard’s End” and “A Passage to India” ;
Maud D. Haviland’s bird book, “The Wood
People,” and the late Mary Skrine’s “Shep-
herd Easton’s Daughter” are the latest to
reach Australia.
Idle Thoughts, by Robert Hartman (Ed.
Arnold and Co.; 65.), has a number of amus-
ing line drawings by the author. Captain
Hartman is England’s favorite broadcaster
of drawing-room humor: a kind of “Mr.
Punch” of the ether. His material doesn’t
suffer as much as might be expected by being
transferred from the air to print. His
style is almost as individual as a voice, and
he is comic without being facetious.
S. Elliott Napier’s The Magic Carpet
(Angus and Robertson) contains essays on
such diverse subjects as “The First Armis-
tice Day,” “Cricket and the Poets” and “The
Loveliest Lyric in the Language” (the
“Nightingale” of Keats is his choice, by the
way), and all are as interesting and some
as finished in their style and kindly in their
humor as any of Robert Lynd’s. A de-
lightful collection and a credit to the “S.
M. Herald” and Brisbane “Daily Mail,” in
which the best of them first appeared.
In Prairie’s End , by Robert J. Horton
(Wild West Club; 7s. 6d.), the reader first
meets Hope Campbell near a hitching rail ip
early September:—
Came a scented breeze to laugh in the trees and
purr soothingly in the nodding grasses. The girl
ran with the lightness of a nymph to the rail, and
leaned on it with her hands.
And now for Ricky Odell: —
His eyes were a blue which seemed shaded with
green, and they sparkled magnificently as he took
in the scene about him. He was tall, with wide
shoulders, and the tapered waist of the born rider.
Gamblers (tin-horn and otherwise), double-
crossers, gun-fighters (straight-shooting and
the other sort), in short, all the concomitants
of life in the Wild West, pervade the yarn
till at long last, love triumphs and Hope
and Ricky “walk out into the first purple
mist of twilight,” an engaged couple.
Home Braced, by Oswald 11. Davis (Dent;
7s. 6d.), is about the liquor trade in the
English Midlands. The hero, Hilary Measures,
is a young publican beset by teetotallers.
One of these scheming pests —Utley by name
—causes both the hero and his uncle to
lose their licensee. Utley continues his spy-
ing ways, till Hilary turns on him:—
“Bv God, I’ve a good mind to lay you flat! If
I catch you dodging round me again I’ll strike
you down as an imp of the devil! Hear me?”
“You hear that threat, C'andrell?” said Utley,
drawing away as if from a flame.
“I do,” said the other retreating.
“Ga-a-a-r-r-h! Get away to your teetotal hell!”
menaced Hilary.
But Utley beats him in the end, and he
decides to sell out.
The tradition of hostship and individual drink
set up by Uncle Joe and Uncle Clem would, in the
name of progress, vanish, and there would now
be left in a city of a million souls only three home
brewers.
No book for a Band of Hope circle, but an
inspiration to every good toper.
And a Little Verse
DANTE’S GARLAND.
I think, when dark-eyed Beatrice passed
In some cathedral, dim and vast,
That Dante stood with those who mourned
The noble Florentine,
And saw the splendid pomp of woe
Pass on, for her who lay below.
The pallid blossoms strangely still,
With lips that gave no sign.
The age-old banners swayed and sighed;
Through lofty windows poured the tide
Of sunlight strong and golden bright
O’er haughty beads low-bowed,
While altar lights before him set,
Like stars of rose and violet.
Through cream and crimson blossoms massed
Burned through the incense cloud.
He had no gorgeous wealth of bloom
To paint with life her marble tomb
As those who loved her, prince and peer;
No costly gifts to bring.
Instead, by hills and haunt of birds,
He wove a wreath of singing words
With tender touch and faultless art,
Love’s truest offering.
To dust, the mourners long ago,
With poppies’ flame and lilies’ snow,
That glorified the gloom of space,
Have passed and ceased to be.
But still his living garland glows,
Each word a flower of gold or rose
That keeps her name, a sacred thing.
From Time’s dominion free.
N.S.W.
NELLIE A. EVANS.
Answers to Correspondents.
Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will he. taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Austral B.: No doubt composers will be
invited to supply a musical setting if any of the
songs submitted are thought by the judges to be
worthy. All in good time... .8.R.; Pull it to-
gether. And, having some rhymes, it should have
more. The idea makes this worth while... .S.J.R.:
Till the afternoon
Glides on dancing shoon
’Midst the fallen showers
Of the golden hours—
Oh, pretty, pretty!... .A. G.H.: Follows an old
track, and doesn’t point out anything new' on the
way... . Di-Zux; Too impressionistic; yet “Economic
Muse” called for a second reading.. .Louisa O.: Very
slight... .R.D.H.; More rhymes than reason....
A.D.L.D. ; Coming on, but still a bit anaemic. And
this isn’t much of a market for scenic verse....
Guy B.: Another “Morning” poem, with the good
old sun god and his chariot, and the clarion laugli
of the jackass ! Yet it doesn’t try to rhyme “morn”
and “dawn,” so things might have been worse....
D.A.S.; Too fragmentary... .8.F.R.; Last figures
are to the end of 1931; at that time U.S.A. agri-
cultural wage rates had got back to within 10 p.c.
of pre-war level. They reached their highest
towards the end of 1929, when they were 71 p.c.
above pre-war rates... .H.R.G.; Jingly ; but there’s
promise in it.... Printemps: Off those stilts!....
G. : Made no impression on the scales... .F.C.D.;
It’s happened to fathers before... .D.J.C.: Daily-
paper material.. . .L.W.S.: No cheque for you
H. : Anticipated blowing up of rascally husband.
L.T.: Tame C. 8.: We’re old birds and shy.
... .W.L.: Might find an overseas market for it....
Terence L.; Timeworn moralising... .P.E.A.; Much
obliged. .. .P.T.J.; Absolutely nothing in the story.
Davidson is an Australian—a Queenslander —born in
the bank of which he is now g.m. ; his father was
in its service for many years. .. .Yad; Poor stuff.
Acres of better are waiting a chance to get into
type... .L. 0.; Very slight. .. .8.D.H.; Too many
rhymes, not enough reason, in your verse.... J.W.:
The woodenest we’ve lead for many a long
day... .F.J.F.: A lachrymose and thoroughly unreal
lot, these swagmen of yours.... Atlas; You show
observation and humor, but you can’t rhyme for
nuts... .S.T.S.; A kind of hymn and a dreadfully
bad one at that T. 1.; “Things Might Be Worse”
hardly applies to your effusion... .M.8.G.: If that’s
a sample of the book of verse you’re writing better
abandon the idea. . . .H.D.: Tolerably done, but
hardly w'orth doing... .Sarge; Out of date and out
of joint and out of tune.... A.L.D.: Poor stuff in
the light of one of Noyes's masterpieces.. . .
W.A.O’N.; “Dear” would be that at a farthing.
W.M.: “A Bush Idyll” pure twaddle
C.W.S.; Neither rhyme nor free verse; a ragged
mixture of both.... Hoey: Too labored.... Busliic
Bill: No meat on them. .. .G.R.: “She Could Not
Smile”—neither could we C.G.G.: We like ’em
nearer home... .M.M.: Flapper fodder... .5.8.: Don’t
care for fiction served up in that form. .. . A.D.:
Humorless L.£.; Two misfits.... AV.B.; To us
they were painful moments... .G.H.W.; Just ordi-
nary, and rogues are not like that... .D.L.: Under-
nourished. .. .R.R.; Not buying the porkers
J. ; Ghastly W.J.M.C..: Hasn’t improved since
we'saw it last... .D.G.S.: Characters only puppets.
W.S.: All hopeless 5.E.8.: Middling
C.R.A.; Well done, but a bit up in the air
K. J.L.: Embezzlement stories have to be remark-
ably well done to pass 8.M.: Promising; strive
for stronger plots... . C.J.0.5.: A small pebble.. • .
H.T.G.; Almost got there.... .M.M.; Returning the
pea-picker....H.G.; You could have squeezed a lot
more fun out of it.. . .R.F.S.: Hasn’t much point.
M.M.T.: Here’s the old rule. For the
octave, ABBAABBA; for the sestet, CDECDE.
Only practice can give the needed beauty of line.
C.J.E.:
My question took her by surprise;
She pondered, then answered maybe.
She 1 promised to write
But since that night
No letter has arrived for me.
Try a reply-paid telegram... .W.F.: You have some
gift for rhyme; now you need to polish and con-
dense W.R.C.: Worthless.... Abe Arracker:
Basketed in the absence of a bag... .C.E.B. : A heavy-
footed creature, that Muse of yours... .Adrianne: The
dead limit in trite reflections and aching rhymes
B. : They’re not up to any standard, book or
newspaper that we ever heard of. .. . A.L.H.: The
Vision” suggests nightmare... .E.V-B.: Inconsistent,
isn’t it ?: —
Cow is a popular epithet of abuse
And yet once a year, at show-time,
Every paper is full of praise,
For the cow and her ways
Of helping our country through the slow time.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.M.; Don’t care for sketches which require about
a gross of explanatory labels K.J.: Time that ill-
treated suitor turned on her old man, for a change.
W.J.C.: Melbourne Cup drawing perfectly useless
now C. 8.; Stiffly treated, and the gag is sprout-
ing grev hairs. .. .W.N.E.; Jokes have seen then
best ° days H.R.11.: Don’t care for either....
C. J.F.: Jerrybuilt.... G.T.: That’s Oswald Pryoi s
c ] a im 11. K.: Conventional composition.....
P.A.G.: Drawing of shapeless swagman roasting
what looks like his dog... .R.J.C.: AVeird-looking
sketch without letterpress received and basketed....
O.B.; Summer always brings a swarm of jokes like
yours about flies in beer... .F.F.: Obviously the
work of a novice. •• .C.P.M.; Very wooden attempt
to illustrate a vulgarism.... S.N.: Just thrown
together K.M.MI; Nearly the worst received this
year A.W.G.; The good points are outnumbered
by the bad ones... .T.R.J.: Trite jest illustrated
presumably with a cold chisel dipped in cieosote.
. ...8.5.; It was dying on its feet when it reached
us L.H.; Amateurish, but. keep 0n... . E.N,P.:
You’re still floundering... .S.L.G.: Do studies from
life and beware of imitating.. . .T.A.: Drunk,
lobster, fountain and copper arc a wornout com-
bination P.H.K.: Disliked the bumpy females and
their skyscraping escorts... .D.W.0.: Shows an in-
experienced hand R.A.L.: Style is undistinguished
and jokes arc ambiguous.


è
é
ttt0
t ti
m
»
■I 1
K I
W$F,4m
* *ASk;,
'WKm 8
i
iwrv/
m
K
g 8w
Jr*
H
2H
I
t
**
as?
■
HI
■
>
Hi
Hil
m
■ ■
■
m
mm& ::
J^/wu/f/know andc7r/o/


The Bulletin
Vol. 53. —No. 2754.
November 23, 1932.
WOE TO THE CONQUEROR!
UNCLE SAM: “Say! does a man always feel like this after winning a war?"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack .Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12c. 6d.;
S months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
<5 months, 15s. t id.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Itoute”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for )oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
THE WOOL INDUSTRY.
The committee which was appointed to
inquire into the wool industry and make
a report upon it has not been able to recom-
mend any short cut back to prosperity.
All it could do was to suggest a reduction of
costs in various directions—'the State Gov-
ernments should reduce rail freights on wool
and livestock; further reductions should be
made in handling and selling charges; inter-
est rates should be further lowered; Federal
land tax should be substantially reduced;
and the “draft”—an allowance of lib. per
cwt. to the buyer—should be abolished. It
thinks that the present rate of exchange
should be maintained for the current wool
season (to the end of June, 1933), with a
rise in the rate if there should be a further
fall in wool prices. It discusses wool-mar-
keting schemes, and apparently cannot see
much hope in that direction; all it is pre-
pared to recommend is the establishment of a
Commonwealth Wool Executive, with power
(through the Commonwealth Government)
to prohibit the export of wool if such action
should be deemed necessary in order to
prevent a fall in value.
The average price for the last two seasons
in Australia had been, about 83d. per pound.
The committee found that the average typi-
cal cost of production, exclusive of interest,
was now Bid. at the stations and 91d.
at the sales. Taking the value of the area
to carry a sheep at £3, interest at 5 p.c.
would mean per pound of wool. Costs,
the committee says, are falling, but are
still 2d. per pound above the market; and
“when monetary exchanges are restored to
parity an increase of 7d. per pound is
required on the present gold price.” As to
interest and broking charges, “we consider,”
it reports, “that the institutions should offer
to share in the general reductions more
quickly than they are doing, and that this is
no time to make profits out of the wool
industry.” It does not share the fore-
bodings that future prices will not be
higher than pre-war prices, neither does it
anticipate a return to the average prices of
the 10 post-war years. “The problem, there-
fore, is not only a temporary one, but it
involves a revision of costs imposed upon
the industry during those years.”
The committee was handicapped by the
short time at its disposal: it would take
more than two months to thoroughly ex-
plore all the problems and difficulties of this
industry. So we have no guidance upon one
most important point. Australia is easily
the world’s largest producer of high-grade
wool; and its supremacy is not threatened.
No largely increased quantity of this wool
could come quickly from any other country.
Further, the world has been consuming
current production. Of almost every other
agricultural product there are large stocks;
of wool there has been practically no carry-
over for years. Yet the committee finds
that Australian wool is costing a great deal
more to produce than it is fetching in the
market. This suggests that there is some-
thing radically wrong somewhere. Unless
competition in some shape or other is
driving us to it, why are we selling at a
loss? Obviously that point ought to be
cleared up at the outset. It may be that
the organisation which is buying from us is
better than the organisation which is selling
lor us. It may be that we can accomplish
higher prices as easily as we can bring
about lower costs; and from the national
point of view higher prices are, of course,
far more desirable than lower costs.
But, even assuming that it is not possible
for us to get more money for our goods,
are we facing all the facts squarely? The
committee agrees with The Bulletin’s
conclusion that, while we shall probably not
return to pre-war wool prices, we cannot
expect post-war boom prices. “The problem
therefore involves revision of the costs im-
posed upon the industry during those years.”
But does it not also involve revision of
the capital values imposed upon the indus-
try during those years? Thus far we have
been trying to retain those figures by a
variety of stratagems. We have had mora-
toriums and compulsory reductions of rent
and interest. We have tried also the ex-
periment of a high exchange rate. The
object in every case has been to reduce
the burden of the debt without writing off
any of the debt itself. It might be well
worth while going back over the history of
the ’nineties to see what we did then, and
how the means we adopted helped or hin-
dered us. The position at that time was in
most respects quite as bad as it is to-day:
in comparison with costs, prices were lower;
the actual distress was undoubtedly
greater; business in every capital of Aus-
tralia was far worse than it has been
at any time during the past three years.
Capital was written down wholesale as lost
or no longer represented by assets. We
can only judge by results: within 10 years
there were very few traces of the disaster
left, and those chiefly where the men. in
charge tried to pull through without blow-
ing off the froth of the boom.
The same thing ought, of course, to be
done with the railways. Our freights are
absurdly high, partly, no doubt, because of
overmanning, but largely because we are
endeavoring to make the traffic carry a
load of capital which is not represented by
valuable assets. The mere writing down of
capital would not get rid of the burden
of debt; but that burden could then be
divided equitably between traffic charges
and taxation: the latter and not the traffic
should provide interest on capital which is
not represented by earning assets. And just
as wool freights were the offspring of days
when the industry was flourishing and out-
goings were not very closely watched, so
were many other of its practices. Chief
among them is that “draft” allowance of a
free pound of wool for every hundred-
weight bought—a so-called concession made
in the days when scales were said to be
often defective. The fact that it was the
buyer who had to be put on the safe side
—though it was just as likely that the
seller suffered—offers evidence of what has
previously been suggested: that always the
buying organisation has been stronger than
the selling. Whatever other inquiries are
made it seems to The Bulletin, then, to
be a first essential that that aspect of
the question should be looked into.
SAM AND THE WORLD.
“The supreme question, of the time,” an
American financial head put it a year ago,
“is not whether the foreign debts due to
the United States shall be collected or not
collected, but how this country may co-
operate with other countries in restoring
industry and normal living conditions for
the American people.” Those in authoi’ity
in the U.S.A. had thought it could be done
by calling on the enormous credit resources
of the country. The Presidential election
shows what success has been won that way.
President Hoover’s vast plans for recon-
struction through Treasury-backed corpora-
tions no doubt eased down bank failures,
and his other measures arrested the flight
of gold; but the army of unemployed con-
tinued to grow, and the great agricultural
population could see not the smallest rift in
the clouds. The most prodigious crash ever
suffered by the party in office followed as
a consequence; and this has been succeeded
by a formal call on America by the great
Powers of Europe to once more reconsider
the whole question of war debts, including,
presumably, German reparations.
The new German Consul-General in Aus-
tralia took an early opportunity of denying
his country’s war guilt; he seemed to put
insistence upon this as almost his first
duty and the first duty of every German.
Now', this is not wholly a matter of senti-
ment. The only moral ground for holding
the German to the reparations demanded
of him is that he and he alone was respon-
sible for the war—that it was his crime,
to be paid for by him to the uttermost
farthing. Fourteen years have worked
many changes. In particular, they have
taught us to mistrust almost everything we
were told while the war was on. Looking
back on that period, it is not possible to
say now without the shadow of a disturb-
ing doubt that the whole blame was the
German’s. And if the whole blame was not
the German’s, then the world has no right
to demand reparation from him “to the
uttermost farthing.”
National animosities have never per-
mitted the world to seriously consider the
question from the moral standpoint, or
even from the standpoint of pure justice;
all attention has been given to the eco-
nomic aspect. And even that was not at
once given full weight. So far as the
forms of payment were prescribed at Ver-
sailles, the governing idea was to make
Germany impotent for as far into the future
as possible. It was required to surrender
all its merchant ships of 1600 tons gross
and upwards and half of the smaller ones;
it was to restock the devastated areas, and
it was for 10 years to find over 20 million
tons of coal annually for France and Belgium
and Italy. A Commission was to estimate
Germany’s further liability and its cap-
acity to pay. But capacity to pay was
not taken to mean ability to make payment
in a creditor country. Yet that is and
all along has been the kernel of the whole
trouble. And it is not only Germany’s
trouble, because more than half the nations
of the earth emerged from the war the
debtors of other nations.
Most of these debts were more or less
a matter of book-keeping. The money had
been spent, generally by the lender, on a
multitude of things. Australia, for in-
stance, found itself at the end of the war
owing Britain sums totalling 43 millions-
odd for thousands of small payments made
on its behalf, though often without autho-
rity, for services rendered and for goods
supplied. Hence it became necessary, as
it was in our own case, to arrive at
“settlements” of debts outstanding. So
far as reparations were concerned the Com-
mission which followed on Versailles found
that Germany owed 6600 millions sterling
(on the gold basis); France owed Britain
and America about 1300 millions; and Italy
owed them nearly 1000 millions. Later,
when an agreement wag reached, America
was acknowledged to be a creditor for 2200
millions, including interest; Britain claimed
1300 millions from her allies, but from 1922
onward had made it clear that she would
not ask from her debtors more than she
herself had to pay to America; her debt to
America was 945 millions.
Germany’s problem arose first: how was
it to make the reparations to be paid in
cash? It had no gold worth mentioning;
and wherever it turned for markets it
found them closed; no country struggling
to get back on its feet wanted its efforts
nullified by shipments of German goods
made under stress and sold at a sacrifice.
In view of this threat to the markets of the
world, the size of the reparations began to
look as appalling to the victors as it had
always seemed to the vanquished. Nothing
at all like it had been known to history: at
the end of the Franco-Prussian war what
had been regarded as an indemnity of ven-
geance had been extorted from France, yet
it amounted to only 210 millions sterling
as against this colossal 6600 millions. The
Dawes Plan, originated in America, was the
first attempt at overcoming the difficulty of
making such a payment. It postponed in-
stalments and provided for their increase
with a restoration of prosperity. Inciden-
tally it did something more: it directed
American attention to Germany as a likely
field for investment; and soon Berlin be-
came almost a suburb of New York. But
all this merely cloaked the difficulty: during
this period Germany paid its instalments of
reparations with American money, just as
for many years Australia paid its foreign
bills with English money. When these
American investments in Germany ceased
—and many of them were short-term loans
—the position was just as hopeless as ever.
Yet this must be said for the Dawes Plan:
it never professed to be anything but ex-
perimental. It laid it down as a funda-
mental principle that payment could only
be made by an excess of exports over
imports'; wherefore the success of the Plan
depended not only on Germany’s proffer of
goods but on other countries’ acceptance
of them.
What Uncle Hoover will do, or what
his successor will do, nobody knows: it
may, however, be taken for granted that
there will be a meeting of war-debtors and
-creditors, and that the American attitude
will be - less difficult than it has been
hitherto. Nobody knows either what effect
even the total cancellation of war debts
would have upon the world’s industrial dis-
tress. It may be possible to expect too
much from it; yet it does not seem possible
that the results can be anything but good.
Especially must cancellation produce an
immediate response in Germany, which is
being crippled by uncertainty and the con-
sequent scarcity of capital; and a country
so important as Germany cannot be as
distressed as it is without serious conse-
quences to all Europe and indeed all the
world.
The world lacks confidence more than
anything else—a thousand times more than
it lacks gold. And it does not seem within
even the outer realms of possibility that
the world can regain confidence by any
plan which economists or statesmen can
devise so long as these vast international
liabilities hang threateningly over it.
THE DISARM-THE-OTHERS
CONFERENCE.
if the proposals regarding Disarmament
submitted by M. Herriot, Sir John Simon,
Messrs. Bruce and Latham and the German
Chancellor, among others, were made by
an ordinary citizen in a cafe, they would be
regarded as (a) dishonest or ( b ) ridiculous.
But when put forward by eminent states-
men they are cabled round the world,
and leader-writers solemnly spill ink over
them. And so the shoddy farce goes on.
The French proposal is that national
armies should be disbanded, except for a
nucleus to be placed under the orders
of the League of Nations. When trouble
breaks out the League will decide who is
the aggressor, and the neighboring Gov-
ernments will be instructed to promptly
fall on the criminal and annihilate him.
It is hardly necessary to point out that no
impartial Court has yet decided who was
the aggressor in the Great War; and the
French still believe Napoleon was forced
into his career of aggression by British
machinations. It is over a year since Japan
moved in Manchuria, and a large Chinese
city has been demolished since and three pro-
vinces occupied; but the League itself hasn’t
decided yet who was the aggressor. Even
if the League did make its mind up quickly
under such circumstances, no national Gov-
ernment would dare to place its manhood at
the disposal of an extra-national authority
unless its people agreed with the League’s
finding; which means that the various sec-
tions of the international police force would
take sides along the lines of national ego-
tism, ambition and supposed self-interest,
as has always happened.
Sir John Simon proposes to have air-
craft outlawed; I am not surprised, since
Sir John lives in London. I once circled
over that vast wen looking for a landing-
place, and it struck me, as the palaces and
houses whirled round like the spokes of
a gigantic wheel, that it would be a target
difficult to miss and impossible to effect-
ively defend. The Australian Attorney-
General Latham says if there were another
conflict bombers would be able to drop
more bombs on London in 24 hours than
they did in the whole 1914-18 war; he also
asserts that some European Governments
have perfected plans for evacuating their
largest cities on the outbreak of hostilities.
It would be impossible to evacuate London
without causing famine and pestilence, fol-
lowed by nobody knows whaL Mr. Latham
says that, in view of the possibility of these
horrors, Britain must seek security. Sir John’s
idea of security is to get the Powers to
promise not to use their flying arm. Obvi-
ously France is the country in the back of
his mind. But if security for Britain depends
on France not using her aeroplanes, then
Britain will have security but France
won’t, because the only secure person in a
fight is the victor; in fact, what these tauto-
logical gentlemen really mean by security
is superiority.
The German proposal is that the other
countries should disarm down to Germany’s
level, or she should be allowed to rearm
up to their level. It is difficult to see'how
the argument behind this can be contro-
verted, since the members of the League
claim that a country arms purely to pre-
vent aggression.
There was a time when the Church had
some say in these matters. That was
when the Pope declared a Truce of God to
enable the feudal barons to wipe the blood
out of their eyes. Nowadays insensate
nationalism has taken the place of feudal-
ism; but the Churches have lost prestige,
and can only say that goodwill is what the
world needs. No person unless he is a
pervert really wants to hurt another person,
much less himself. There may be a few
cynics who would get pleasure out of seeing
the world more miserable instead of hap-
pier, but on the whole we are idealists
as regards the general well-being. Yet a
system of economics has set every country
in the world hurting every other country
in order to avoid hurting itself, though in
the final result it gets hurt as much as its
neighbors. Germany can’t pay its foreign
creditors except in goods, and the creditor
countries won’t take the goods for fear it
will increase their own unemployment.
Japan can’t get rid of its surplus products
to America because of the tariff, or to China
because of the boycott, so it makes war
on the Manchurians, and everybody at
home applauds because it is better to make
the Manchurians suffer than to stop Japan-
ese factories and cause more unemploy-
ment. Britishers, finding their goods shut
out of America, try to make their Empire
self-contained, which means inflicting suffer-
ing on people outside it. If there is any
country too weak to maintain a tariff wall
for its own protection, there is a scramble
amongst the Powers for exclusive posses-
sion of the market, and that means building
navies and raising armies to hold the
market.
All the parsons in the world preaching
goodwill seven days a week won’t alter
these facts; but the economists might do
something. They have got into such an
extraordinary muddle that, while thousands
lack bare necessaries at home, every country
wants to sell as much as possible abroad
and take as little as possible in return. The
orthodox school of economists say there
is nothing wrong with the present system,
but the politicians won’t let it work prop-
erly. Yet the politicians have been faith-
fully following the advice of the bankers,
who are the executive of the present system,
for three years, and the results we see
around us. Mr. Montagu Norman,
of the Bank of England, described in a
recent biography as the “permanent Prime
Minister” of Britain, says he doesn’t know
what is wrong or what to do about it. In
a case like this, in other businesses, it is
usual to call in fresh advice, of which there
is plenty. There is one new school of
economists who say that, while industry
is ever increasing its ability to produce
and is constantly tending to increase its
production, there is not a corresponding
increase in purchasing power. This leads
to goods remaining unsold, which leads to
the sacking of workers, which leads to a
further decrease in purchasing power and
so on. If the new economists are right,
the chief incentive to war can be removed
by each country making a relatively simple
adjustment in the relationship between pro-
duction and internal purchasing power;
foreign trade would take its place as a fail-
exchange of essential commodities, and the
absurdity of poverty amidst plenty within
a country’s borders would cease to arouse
the gods to laughter.
Sir John Simon’s phobia against aircraft,
M. Herriot’s comic-opera League scheme
and the parsonical pleas for a general
change of heart are only funk reflexes. Fear
only inhibits the intellectual faculties.
M.G.S.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Clumsy Ottawa Compromises.
The Ottawa agreement is admittedly a
series of grudging compromises, into which
each party is trying to read meanings not
obvious to anybody else. So we have Mr.
Baldwin and Mr. Chamberlain on the one
side and Mr. Lyons and Australian Minis-
ters on the other offering entirely different
interpretations of various clauses. lhat
the Conference should have produced such
an agreement is to be deplored; it means
that apparent harmony was achieved at the
peril of future discord. It would be far
better even at this late hour to ask the
British Government what it really under-
stands certain clauses to mean, and in the
light of that to endeavor to reach formulas
about which there could be no doubt at all
and no possibility of future ill-feeling.
Above all, it is necessary that the British
Government shall be approached regarding
the article which lays it down that no new
duty may be imposed and no existing duty
against Britain increased in excess of the
rate recommended by the Tariff Board. No
Parliament ought even to be asked to con-
sent to such an article. Provisions might
be made to ensure that the recommendation
of the board is given the most adequate
consideration; it might even be provided
that before Parliament imposes a higher
rate than the one recommended the board
shall be called to the bar of the House and
heard. But no Parliament should be asked
to say that its powers shall be kept within
limits laid down by some outside authority
quite unrepresentative of the people.
Effort should be made to reach the
British Government’s interpretation of the
articles which are supposed to be designed
to give British industries a reasonable
chance of competing with home industries
in Australia. What is a reasonable chance?
Freetrader and Protectionist will inevitably
disagree on the point, and it will be almost
impossible to avoid disagreement between
Britain and Australia. What Britain ex-
pects ought to be disclosed to us; then
we could decide how far we are prepared
to go, and lay it down definitely. Nothing
could be more likely to produce misunder-
standings and strain friendship than the
present vague and clumsy phrases.
♦
Small Farms for Unemployed.
Of all the schemes hatched for the relief
of unemployment the one showing the
best prospects is Maoriland’s Small Farm
Plan. The idea is to acquire on lease, with
a view to ultimate ownership, small areas
of good land, each capable of running six
or seven cows and a few pigs and poultry,
as well as yielding such vegetables as the
settler can consume or sell. In the selection
of applicants preference is given to men with
country experience who can do seasonal
work likely to be offered by neighbors.
From the relief tax (now Is. in the £, as in
N. S. Wales), the Unemployment Board
grants a sustenance allowance of a pound a
week, reviewable periodically. A special
type of four-roomed cottage, made cheaply
under mass-production methods, is erected
by the Public Works Department. Total
capital expenditure runs to about £250,
on which the settler is to pay interest at
54 p.c., also sinking fund, as well as rent
for the land.
In each district small committees of
good farmers and representatives of the
Department of Agriculture help the new
settler with advice. Farmers offering land
for the scheme have the right to nominate
their settler, so that he is assured of being
persona grata in the neighborhood. The
whole business is administered by the De-
partment of Agriculture. So far over 500
small farmers have been given a start, and
the plan is to be extended.
In Australia money is still being squan-
dered in “works” of the sand-shifting and
footpath-patching order. Half of this use-
less expenditure would be sufficient to get
a Small Farms Plan going in every State,
and assist the stricken building trade in the
process; and something substantial ought to
be done before the fourth depression-winter
is upon us.
♦
What Are Schools For?
An Australian conference on education,
organised by various teachers’ federations,
is to be held in Sydney in January. The
subjects to be dealt with, so far as they
have been chosen, cover a wide range; it
may be the range is too wide, and that it
would be well if attention were confined to
the subject of the inaugural address, “Edu-
cation to meet the needs of the modern
State,” combined perhaps with “Standards
of evaluation in education,” a subject which
Professor Mackie has undertaken to intro-
duce. The thing we really need to make
up our minds about is the purpose of the
primary education undertaken by the State.
What are we aiming at and what ought we
to aim at?
The modern educational movement was
based on the belief that men would do
better in life—would make more success-
ful farmers or carpenters or blacksmiths
—if they could read and write and do a
few sums. Then with the growth of democ-
racy the idea w T as developed that we ought
to “give the children of the poor a chance”
—ought to give the brainy youth whose
parents could not afford to buy him a
higher education an opportunity to become
a doctor or a lawyer or a professor. Thus
far, therefore, the purpose of State educa-
tion was entirely utilitarian: it was to put
more money into the' pockets of those who
accepted it.
But simultaneously vast political changes
were taking place. Even up to the end
of last century one man had many Par-
liamentary votes and many men had none
at all. "How many votes do you give
people in your colony?” a ribald delegate
from the mainland asked Henry Dobson of
Tasmania at one of the first meetings of
the Federal Convention. “As many as they
deserve!” the answer was flashed back. Un-
fortunately neither in Tasmania nor any-
where else did people get as many votes as
they deserved: here and there they got a
vote or an extra vote for learning, but
generally if they had a vote at all it was
because they had property, and if they had
more votes than one they got it because
they had more property than most. It was
an entirely unsatisfactory arrangement; but
at any rate it strove to give control of
the affairs of the State to those who had
generally shown capacity for managing their
own affairs. Under the new order, which
presently arrived with extraordinary speed,
every man was given a vote —and soon, in
many countries, every woman—and nobody
was allowed more than one. There was
no selection for the franchise; and, more
than that, there was no special effort to fit
the great majority for their new duties and
responsibilities. As problems of vast com-
plexity arose, is it any wonder that men and
women, untrained even to think, have in
despair responded to the call of class
consciousness and such like, and handed
over their votes to others whose capacity
for dealing with the problems they have no
means of checking?
Compared with anything else that modem
education might do, preparation for the
exercise of political rights seems, then, to
be of overwhelming importance. But even
when we have agreed that this is so, the
problem is not solved: indeed, the solution
is properly the work of the professional
educationist. All the lay public can do is
to say what it wants. In this case it wants
boys and girls to be trained to think. It
is not of the smallest importance whether
they know the capes of Europe or the
names of the eighth Henry’s wives. Know-
ledge they must acquire in the course of
their training to take their part in the
management of the biggest and most com-
plicated business in the country; but the
teaching of facts ought to be only inciden-
tal to the training of the mind to think,
to marshal facts, to arrive at independent
conclusions. Upon the success of the teach-
ing profession in giving this training it may
be that our civilisation depends. Certainly
upon it will depend the very existence of
democracy. The approaching conference
may therefore easily be a matter of the
very greatest importance.
*
More Exchange Tangle.
The £ sterling is quoted in New
York at 3 dollars 28 cents —say 13s. Bd.
The Australian £ is worth there, say,
10s. Bd. Then Australian assets valued
on the basis of Australian currency are
nearly 50 p.c. fictitious. Is this so? —
A. P. Downey (Q.).
Payments between countries are ordinarily
made either in gold or in goods that can
be sold for gold. When, however, gold is
no longer available for correcting balances,
then other means must be used to preserve
a balance —that is to say, to prevent too
great imports, so that exports shall pay for
them and also meet any foreign interest
payments falling due. .The regulation is
for the most part done automatically
through exchange. If imports are excessive,
then the demand for money abroad to pay
for them raises the price which the im-
porter must pay for the money; and this
premium is added to the price which the
exporter gets for his goods. Thus the bal-
ance of trade is automatically regulated
where exchange movements are unhindered.
But the question is, why does trade tend
to become unbalanced? Why is it necessary
for exchange to take a hand in regulating
the flow? To answer that question it is
only necessary to ask another one —why
don’t they grow asparagus at Broken Hill
for export? The obvious answer is because
it costs too much to grow it there. When
a country’s exports are too little to pay
for its imports, the reason generally is
its costs are too high. To overcome that
difficulty, a country may do one of two
things or some of both: it may reduce
costs or it may debase its currency. That
is to say, it may pay less money to pro-
duce, say, a bushel of wheat for export, or
it may pay the old amount in a debased
currency, and give the exporter the benefit
of the debasement.
At the present time the Australian £ is
worth only 16s. in London and 10s. Bd. in
New York. In theory this means that., in
order to maintain our balance of trade, it is
necessary to give the exporter a premium of
25 p.c. and to put on imports an extra
charge of 25 p.c. Now, if this meant that
our costs to produce a given quantity of
goods are and always will be, say, 25 p.c.
higher than they are in Britain and nearly
50 p.c. higher than they are in the U.S.A.,
then it would be a fair thing to say that
our £ is and always will be worth only
16s. in English money and 10s. Bd. in gold.
And this would mean that a property valued
in Australian money at £lOOO would be
worth only £BOO in English money, or
£533 6s. Bd. in gold. But —and this is a point
which is persistently overlooked —the fact
that our exchange is at 125 does not mean
that our costs necessarily are 25 p.c. higher
than British costs and the Australian £
able to buy only as much as 16s. in Eng-
land. What it does mean is that our bal-
ance of trade has been disturbed. If we
could not borrow abroad, and this country
were hit by a widespread drought, then our
balance of trade would be still more dis-
turbed, and, in order to make our interest
payments abroad and purchase indispen-
sable imports, it might be necessary to in-
crease our exchange rate to 150. But that
would not mean that our ordinary costs ot
production had jumped so much that our
£ bought no more than 13s. 4d. in London
or 9s. in America, and that the real value
of our property had fallen another 20 p.c.
or so.
And it is only misleading ourselves to
take: an article here and an ai’ticle there,
and argue from these that costs are so
high in Australia that the Australian £
hasn’t a hope of ever being equal to the
English £. We said just now that fresh
home-grown asparagus is probably a shock-
ing price at Broken Hill, and if crayfish
were reared in Stephens Creek they might
fetch 10s. each. Yet Broken Hill’s balance
of trade is enormously on the right side:
what it can produce crayfish and asparagus
for can be entirely disregarded; it is what
it can produce metals for that counts.
4
Jock Mackenzie and His Work.
“Pay Jay”: The Bulletin (12/10/’32) tells
Maoriland. it ought to erect a statue to
Jock Mackenzie and his plough. True, a
statue has not been erected; but on a
dominating hill near Palmerston, where Jock
had his homestead, a stone cairn rears
towards the sky, that the stranger may
know the memory of the best Maori-
lander after Seddon is not forgotten.
But the real intention of his labors has
been utterly destroyed. Jock’s leasehold-
tenure scheme pulled men from the roads,
the bush, the plains and the dead-end jobs
of the cities to people productive holdings
on the land. He burst the power of the
squatter,to give the underdog a chance in life.
Nine hundred and ninety-nine years lease-
hold, a nominal rent (the first two years
being free), money advanced on the value
of holdings at 3t p.c., work at wages on
adjoining roads to keep the tucker-pot lull
while awaiting production—thus men were
given every show to make good. And, of
course, they made good. Many a man had
gained a competence 10 years later. They
were almost all satisfied, but had one com-
plaint: “If it was only a freehold! I could
retire comfortably to-morrow if the deeds of
title went with the land!” Mackenzie died
and Seddon died, and the Lib.-Lab. party
died with them. Massey granted the freehold
at upset value. Enter Mr. Private Mort-
gage on the land, followed by Mr. Spec-
ulator; followed in due time by the first,
second, yea, even the fifth cousin of Mr.
Private Mortgage. We’d like to go back to
Mackenzie, but the road is blocked with
the carcases.
Yes, we should erect that statue —within
a temple. And every year on a given day
we should make a pilgrimage to it, with
ashes in our hair and haircloth (if we
can run it) about our necks, and abase
ourselves and say: “What —— fools, what
fools we are!”
4
The “World” and the Flesh.
The death of the “World” in Sydney last
week ended another chapter of a tragedy.
Eighteen years ago the A.W.U., greatest of
Australian unions,, decided that the chief
city of the Commonwealth ought to have
a newspaper to put the Labor view. The
home was built, the plant was put in, the
staff was engaged, printing paper was
bought. And then the war arrived. In
ordinary circumstances that should not have
made any difference; but the capital had
been used up in bricks and mortar, and
those responsible were not prepared to face
so uncertain a future with an almost empty
treasury. The launching of the paper was
therefore pushed into the indefinite future.
In course of time the unions quarrelled,
and eventually the “Labor Daily” was
established. It represented the group which
had for many years been unfriendly with
the A.W.U.; and the breach between them
widened until the A.W.U. was driven to
produce at last its own daily paper.
Now, there are three ways of running a
Labor paper. It may get the unions to
compel their members to subscribe to it;
or it may employ a species of blackmail
with advertisers; or it may trust to its
merits as a newspaper and an organ of
public opinion. The “World” took the last
course, and it is chiefly because of this that
its passing out is to be regretted. There
still are half a dozen papers in Australia
owned by labor unions; but as far as The
Bulletin knows not one of them lives
except by virtue of some form of compul-
sion. The “World” tried the other way,
and could not command the circulation
that would have commanded the advertis-
ing.
It raises the question whether Labor poli-
tics really do interest the great majority
of those who at one time or another cast
a Labor vote. Have they, men and women,
really any politics at all? Could they pass
even the most elementary examination in
political science? They know, or think
they know, that the boss is on one side;
therefore their own place must be on the
other. Is that a good enough reason for
giving a man or a worn ait a vote? Or
should the voter be required to show, on
challenge, that he has some real qualifica-
tions for his job?
♦
The Threatening Rabbit.
The rabbit plague followed the depression
in the nineties, and another threatens now:
over a great part t>f the middle-west of
N. S. Wales the invasion is already a
serious matter, and the army is moving fan-
wise northward. So long as he can be
kept under control bunny is a blessing;
during the five .years before depression hit
the world Australia exported £1.654.000
worth of frozen rabbits and hares and
£13,305,000 of skins. But safety can only
be bought with eternal vigilance; and
vigilance costs money. Once it is relaxed
and the rabbit gets out of control, what
was a national asset (though rarely much
of an asset to the grazier) becomes a grave
menace and a liability. Australia is at the
moment in great need of every pound of
wool it can grow, every pound of mutton
and lamb it can fatten; and every half-
dozen rabbits dispossess a sheep. The records
still tell of the droughts of the 'nineties.
It is a solemn fact, and one that ought
to be remembered now, that depression
made those droughts just as much as the
weather did. For low prices of wool and
over-capitalisation of country produced
overstocking; with overstocking went
neglect, as it nearly always does; with
neglect came the rabbit plague; and soon
sheep and rabbits were competing for
the feed. Drought is not bad weather;
drought, out back, means failure of supplies.
The country is better fenced than it was
40 years ago, and netted fences simplify
rabbit destruction; but the countiy is not
so well fenced that the rabbit is not
liable to again be a national disaster. He
must be watched carefully; and if it comes
to a contest between the sheep and the
rabbit, the Government —in this case of
N. S. Wales especially—must not hesitate
to open its purse freely on the side of the
sheep.
*
The Rights of the Mortgagee.
Dear Bulletin, —The N.S.W. Moratorium
Bill fails to face the facts in two material
respects (and, incidentally, I am a mortga-
gee) ;
(1) Owing to the deflation which has
taken place since 1929, mortgagors will, in
effect, be paying not only the principal
sum, but at least a third more; and great
numbers will have a millstone round their
necks with no prospect of ever being able
to free themselves. Anybody who antici-
pates we are going to get back to 1929
price levels is a super-optimist. This is the
underlying principle of the movement
for a revision of war debts. It will be
argued that an adjustment of debts accord-
ing to the change in prices of commodities
would be repudiation; but the repudiation
is not by the borrower but by the lender,
who is demanding much in excess of what
he is entitled to. Those who oppose
adjustment are the greatest enemies of
capitalism and are doing most to promote
Socialism and Communism. The next gen-
eration will be amazed at the short-sighted-
ness of the present one in neglecting to
hasten this adjustment.
(2) The present interest relief is in many
instances not nearly sufficient, particularly
for the men on the land, who have suf-
fered a fall in prices of upwards of 50 p.c.
A fair thing would be to provide that a
person can apply to a Court for interest
relief up to a maximum of one-third of the
rate specified in his mortgage, according
to the circumstances of the case. This
would not abrogate the present 224 p.c., but
would enable those entitled to do so to
apply to a Court for further relief. Pro-
vision could also be fnade, as.in the Queens-
land Act, that, if the mortgagee unreason-
ably refuses the further concession, he pays
the costs of the application; on the other
hand, if the mortgagor unreasonably de-
mands the further concession, he should be
mulcted in the costs. The present 224 p.c.
concession is in many instances altogether
inadequate.—Yours faithfully, Lex.
*
Leg-roping* Loans.
“Lomkey Bee”: The suggestion (B.
26/10/’32) that the borrowing fever might
be checked by a Constitutional provision
that two Parliaments should be required to
sanction any loan seems hardly drastic
enough to deal effectively with the disease.
Practically it means that the electors should
control borrowing by the election of reps.;
but it is the electors who have been chiefly
responsible for past outbursts of loan fury,
because they have elected the borrowing
brutes oil their promises to spend, and
mainly because they promised to borrow.
C. C.' Plehn, in his “Public Finance, notes
what looks like a more effective and satis-
fying cure. He savs that many Constitu-
tions of the United States, besides limiting
the amount of debt that may be created,
also provide that, whenever a debt shall be
contracted, a tax shall at the same time be
levied sufficiently large to pay the interest
charge and provide a sinking fund. Ihe
distrust of Legislatures is emphasised in the
Constitutions by making such tax laws irre-
pealable until the debt is repaid.


James Murphy Bursaries
for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
teiiable at either
(a) The University of Sydney
providing all tuition fees (if chargeable) and £7O per annum
towards the cost of residence at St. John’s College
OR
(b) Hawkesbury Agricultural College
providing £4O per apnum towards fees, residence, etc.
Applications are invited for the above J'ursaries, made
available under the will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient to enable their
sons to study Agricultural Science, and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the
University of Sydney or of entrance to Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later than sth January
1933, in the case of Bursaries tenable at Hawkesbury Agricultural College, and not later than
10th February, 1933, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney) and further
particulars may be obtained from
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Diamond Engagement Mings
e
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, _ with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
HARDY BIOS. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE.
! ! 6 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Rural opinion was so hostile to the pro-
posed bounty of £1,000,000 on super, that
the Lyons Government changed its mind.
It now proposes to provide £2,000,000 “for
the relief of distressed wheat-farmers” and
£250,000 as a super, subvention to “all other
primary producers,” many of whom do not
require it. Indications are that the wheat
harvest will go about 180 million bushels
—it can’t be much more or less. A bounty
of threepence a bushel on 180 million bushels
works out at exactly £2,250,000. It wouldn’t
call for that much, since .seed require-
ments and inferior grain have to be allowed
for; but it should be paid, on deliveries at
siding, to all growers of f.a.q. wheat, with-
out discrimination. The balance could be
reserved for assistance in special cases.
There won’t be much Queensland wheat
this year—certainly not enough for Queens-
land requirements. The Government offered
to buy the whole crop at 3s. 61d. a bushel,
but the Wheat Board thinks it can do
better. Consignments of N.S.W. wheat have
been selling up to 4s. Id. a bushel. If
growers in the four big wheat-growing States
could get that price they would do without
Lyons’s £2,000,000.
Jackson, Stevens-Bruxner’s Minister of
Local Government, wants to be Lud Mayor
of Sydney again—he is still an alderman.
He says he could easily be Lord Mayor and
Minister, too. Then Local Government is
not a full-time job, and he has no right
to be getting a salary as Minister. As a
matter of fact, Jackson a nd Vincent (Mines)
have so little to do in their departments
that it’s a wonder they manage to keep
awake. Stevens-Bruxner should relieve the
taxpayers of the incubus of paying both.
It is denied in Fiji that there is a general
skying _ of hats in those parts because a
share in the Australian banana market is
to be regained. The islanders look on the
concession as a Greek gift. As a result
of it Fiji will have to increase by 10 per
cent, the duties on many foreign imports
which are in general demand in the group,
among them hams, bacon, biscuits, fish, fresh
fruit and vegetables; and the prospect of
getting all these articles from Australia
does not please. The Fijians say they will
lose by the Ottawa agreement. Still, people
in every country affected by the agreement,
whether parties to it or not, are saying
that.
Disregarding Deputy-Premier Menzies,
Vic. Assembly decided by a majority of
seven on a 22\ P-c. interest-reduction on
mortgages renewed since Oct. 1, 1931. Relief
is to be given from the date of the passing
of the bill, and the 5 p.c. minimum is to be
preserved. Other amendments were carried
against the Government; Argyle said he
“Vital amendments to the Mortgages Bill were
carried against the Vic. Government by its Country
party ‘supporters.’ Premier Argyle gracefully
accepted the verdict of the House.”
“Calm yourself, my rustic follower, and
look at your leader. Ever seen any-
thing more graceful?”
would accept them all, but if there were
any interference with the principles of his
Budget the House would have to get
another Administration. So the “crisis”
which was splitting the Cabinet and
the U.A.P.-Cocky alliance is over—at any
rate, for the present. Of course, there is
a second Chamber, which may have a word
or two to say.
A few years ago the N.S.W. Water Board
spent a million on a pressure tunnel from
Potts Hill to Waterloo, and, the thing hav-
ing failed, a committee is trying to find out
why. Tom Henley, one of the oldest mem-
bers of the board, probably furnishes the
true explanation—and it is a tragedy to have
to admit it: day labor. Contractors are
generally experienced men who check up
the work of engineers and architects; also
contractors are bound by the specification
to use certain materials. On a day-labor job,
if the costs are piling too high, a saving can
be made by cheapening materials.
Gujlett took upwards of three hours to
explain the Ottawa agreement, as it affects
Australia. Ilis speech and the tariff altera-
tions he announced occupy 109 pages of
“Hansard.” When he fell ill, the debate
was adjourned; then the Government de-
cided that there was no occasion for debate
since it had the numbers. So, as Scullin
protests, “16 articles of the agreement were
“Under one of the articles of the Ottawa Agree-
ment, Parliament may not impose a higher duty
against Britain than the Tariff Board recommends.”
THE OTHER PERSON: “Yes, Mr. Speaker,
there are now four estates of the
Realm: the King, the Lords, the Com-
mons and the Civil Service.”
bludgeoned through in six hours”; on two of
the most important clauses the time allowed
for discussion was 15 minutes. Gullett’s
successor Forde, objecting to these proceed-
ings, and interrupting—as 20 other mem-
bers were doing—was suspended for a sit-
ting without being allowed to withdraw.
And when the sorry farce was over, the
Government discovered that it wasn’t ready
to proceed with other measures, so no work
was done on Friday. This may be playing
the game of party according to Marquis
of Rafferty rules, but it is no good to Aus-
tralia.
Politicians escape with their lives only
because the public doesn’t know how it is
being taxed. It sees its income assessments,
but it knows very little about most of
the other bites that are taken out of it,
chiefly because the tax-gatherer makes some-
body else do the biting. The amusement
people long ago refused to take the blame
for Government’s exactions, and always
make their charge so-and-so “plus tax”;
and now the petrol people are being urged
to do the same thing. Before long, therefore,
the chances are that, in place of the present
sign on the bowsers, “First grade, Is. lid.,”
we shall read “First grade, Is. 3Jd., pills
tax, lf that plan had been adopted
from the beginning, the tax wouldn’t have
crept up as it has done.
It is complained at Canberra that the
revenue from rum has fallen away dread-
fully. reason is that the excise (30s.
a gallon) is too high. Queensland distil-
lers sell the stuff for ss. Bd. a gallon. It
costs 6s. 6d. a pint in Sydney hotels.
Trade-union bosses are quite sure they
could run banks and the like (that is what
they mean when they demand “the national-
isation _ of banking and credit”) ; but they
are failures at running daily newspapers.
The A.W.U. has dropped the best part of
£lOO,OOO in its two “Worlds.” Funds for
the Sydney enterprise extinguished last
week were collected 20 years ago. A levy
of £1 a head was exacted from members
of the union even in the remote north of
Westralia. It is doubtful if half of those
who paid it ever saw the paper. Thousands
sleep on foreign battlefields.
Maoriland has just witnessed the con-
cluding eddies of a storm in a teacup. Alex-
ander Mackintosh, an elderly ex-banker, in
an addendum to the main report of the
National Expenditure Commission, expressed
the opinion that the country’s financial
troubles could be traced in part to pur-
chase of votes with public-works expendi-
ture. Parliamentarians—among them Labor-
leader Holland—read into the observation
a charge of personal bribery and corruption.
Mackintosh and editors whose journals had
applauded his candor were called to the
bar of the House and catechised by a
Committee of Privilege. The editors apolo-
gised, but withdrew nothing; Mackintosh
neither -withdrew nor apologised. And there
the matter ended.
Tlie latest from Lionel Hill, the Premier
without a party, is that he is going to
stand for Burra Burra. Burra Burra—a
three-member district—is represented by
McHugh, George and Critchley, who were
elected as supporters of Hill, and were
expelled along with him by the A.L.P.
bosses for supporting the Premiers’ plan.
There is also to be an A.L.P. ticket, if
one can be got. Hill entered the Assembly
as member for East Torrens, and trans-
ferred to Port Pirie, for which he has
sat since 1918. He was one of the anti-
conscription group which turned against the
Labor Government of Crawford Vaughan.
\ aughan found that South Aus. had no use
lor a Premier without a party, but Ilill
thinks he can hang on to a seat
Donald Cameron, sometime M.H.R. for
Brisbane, was a startled spectator of the Rod
riots at Geneva, where the mob broke loose
and soldiers sent to assist the gendarmes
joined the rioters. The same tiling happened
in Petrograd during the Bolshevik coup, but
the Swiss Government acted with more
energy than the windbag Kerensky. Apart
from . having no use for Communists, it
doesn t want to lose the League, which is
its country’s leading industry, after watch-
making. If Geneva became unsafe for peace-
makers, flocks of secretaries, stenographers
and what not would have to pack up and
look for quarters elsewhere.
President Wallace, of Melbourne Trades
Hall Council, who thinks most of his mem-
bers are mugwumps, was one of Tom Mann’s
young men when that world-adjuster and
watered-beer purveyor was telling the Mel-
bourne worker that he had nothing to lose
but his chains. Wallace’s present grouch
is that Ills mugwumps won’t meekly follow
the fool-decisions of the recent Australian
Trade Union Conference. The mugwumps,
as a rule, represent men in trades jobs ; the
conference represented men in Trades Hall
jobs—which makes all the difference.
Queensland Premier Smith, whose elec-
tion promises were so much like Lang’s,
though he said he repudiated Lang and all
his works, is imitating Lang by diverting
funds raised by special taxation for a spectic
purpose to other uses. He is having
£250,000 of Main Roads money transferred
to consolidated revenue. The proceeding
was described by Russell, M.L.A., as “on
the . border-line of robbery.” Bruce, the
Minister of Works, came back with a hot
attack on Russell, and the Speaker inter-
vened to preserve the dignity of the House.
But no one will intervene to preserve the
quarter-million for main roads.
M. L. Reading, of Brisbane “Telegraph”
and sharpest critic of Forgan Smith, was
charged with sedition because he had printed
a letter suggesting that Smith was going
the same way as Lang, and that the good of
the State called for a New Guard and a
strike of taxpayers. Justice Macrossan
took the case from the jury after quoting
Dicey on the Constitution. Dicey said “the
legal definition of a seditious libel might
easily be so used as to check a great deal
FOGHORN SMITH: “Ah, a capital idea! We
might absorb the unemployed building
a thousand of them—a couple outside
every newspaper office to start with.”
of what is allowable discussion, and would,
if rigidly enforced, be inconsistent with pre-
vailing forms of political agitation.” In
other words, it might be used by some
Forgan Smith to put his political opponents
in the stocks once he had managed to get
into office. But isn’t it time it was made
impossible for a Judge to hold to such a
“legal definition”? For it has to be remem-
bered that the Forgan Smiths can choose
and appoint Judges, too, and some day every
Judge may not be a Macrossan.
Captain Eckersley, a British authority on
broadcasting, cast up in Australia recently
and made some pointed remarks on the
system he found here. Among other things,
he said that, in the choice of wave-lengths,
only city-dwellers had been considered, and
that the authorities ought to remember they
were catering for a continent. He was told,
in effect, that he didn’t know what he vvas
talking about, and that in the determination
of wave-lengths the P.M.G.’s department
must be right, as it never did anything
wrong. Eckersley has closed the contro-
versy from the other side of the Pacific, as
it were. lie writes that the Americans
enjoy better transmission and programmes
than the British receive from their
and immeasurably superior to what the Aus-
tralian gets for iiis 245. p.a.
In Australia, under Government control, public-
utility and sponsored programmes are given side by
side, and the worst features of each kind have been
achieved.
Distinctly unpleasant, but true.
“It was suggested in the Leg. Assembly that
Mr. Lang was ‘running away to the Federal Parlia
ment ‘That’s not running away,’ replied Mr.
Lang; ‘that’s promotion.’”
LANG'S BULL ( to the Bovril) : “Ah, so you’ve
been promoted, too, I see.”
To assist the Stevens Government to make
up its mind what to do about the tin hares,
Judge Swindell has retired from or been
pushed out of the management of tin-hare cos.
whose interests he nursed so assiduously.
Now that his “Labor” friends are in Oppo-
sition, and likely to remain there for a long
time, the outlook for his Honor in Australia
is gloomy. It may be worth while calling
his attention to the fact that Tammany has
again captured New York. There should be
some good openings there for a man of his
peculiar talents. He would have no trouble
in getting a passport.
Labor politicians affect to believe that,
unless farm mortgagees are restrained by
special legislation, a ravening horde of them
will descend on the settlers and sell them
up. When the theory is tried in Victoria
hundreds of farmers, most of them young
men and many of them Diggers, roll up at
the auction. A shilling will be offered
for a cow, and there the bidding stops and
the animal has to be knocked down to the
bidder. After the sale the stock and fur-
niture are handed back to their former
owner. The row in the Leg. Assembly over
the Mortgages Bill is a reflection of this
new temper in the Mallee, and so i,s the
stand of country Ministerialists against their
own Government.
Income reaching N. S. Wales from other
parts of Australia is subject to (1) income
tax and (2) unemployed-relief tax in the
State of origin; (3) ordinary Federal in-
come tax; (4) special Federal tax (2s. in
the f), and (5) N.S.W. relief tax (Is. in
the f). And the fifth tax is imposed on
what the victim pays in (1) to (4), as
well as on what he actually receives. This
swindle has been exposed times without
number, but the swindled can get no
redress. Queensland does not exact relief
tax on income reaching it from other States,
but it taxes pensions going to ex-Queens-
landers in N.S.W.—the argument being that
they were earned in Queensland —and so, of
course, does grasping Ma. The matter was
brought up in the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly,
and Stevens made the stereotyped reply that
he would see what he could do about it. He
added: —•
It is competent for any State to impose a tax
upon a resident of that State in respect of income
derived from any source whatever, whether within
or without the State. That principle is embodied
in the unemployed-relief taxation of N. S. Wales,
as well as of Queensland.
It might be said that the same “principle”
was embodied in the practice of Ned Kelly,
but he wasn’t so dashed self-righteous
about it.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Nikko”; The old gentleman who earns
a crust by singing in the gloaming down
our way is locally known as “The Last
Minstrel,” and his voice is not what it may
once have been. But he has a high sense
of duty, and when he has accepted our
donations he feels it incumbent on him to
finish the item. “The Last Rose of Summer”
is his masterpiece, and it goes off some-
thing like this: “ ’Tis the last rose —Thank-
yer, lady. Yes, me rheumatism’s a lot
better, thank-yer kindly—of summer, left
b loom in g- -T hank - y er, miss. Yer never fer-
gits me —alone. All her lovely—Thank-yer,
missus, I cud do with a bitta meat to take
home fer supper—companions are faded —
No, lady, I never refuses a cuppa tea—and
gone.” It takes him some time to sing- a
verse and acknowledge the hospitality of a
whole street, but he manages it.
* * * *
“Exon”; It is seldom that any pother
is raised over the selection of a Rhodes
scholar, although inevitably there must be
disappointments, but there was a rumpus in
West nil ia when an eminent divine on the
selection committee acquiesced in award-
ing the prize to his own son. Had he
excused himself from adjudicating on a
matter in which he had an obvious personal
interest, the result might have been the
HER EARLY NIGHT.
“It was such a gorgeous sunrise this morning. Did you happen to see it, dear?”
“Why, no —I was home by three."
same; but he didn’t, and by his ill-advised
action lie raised a lot of sympathy tor. the
runner-up. The feeling ran so strong tear
a local newspaper started a fund to send
the unsuccessful candidate to Oxford, and
thither lie went. Within a year or so both
were in France. The unsuccessful candi-
date fell there; the Rhodes scholar was
taken prisoner in the retreat from Mons.
He survived the war, only. to be murdered
in China by brigands disguised as soldiers.
“Tric-Trac” ; In that description of the new
machine used for drawing the Golden Casket
lottery in Brisbane (B. 0/11/ it is
stated that no number can be repeated, no
matter how numerous the drawings. In pre-
liminary trials of the machine, special tests
as to the recurrence of numbers were made.
The figures run from 9 down to 0 and the
drawings showed that the appearance of each
number was practically the same in each
instance, ranging from 518 times for num-
ber 1 to 48€> for number 4, the lowest
total. Possibly the writer of the par. in
question meant that no complete ticket
number can be repeated. Professor Simonds,
the Maths, man at Queensland Univer-
sity, says in this regard that “a ticket
may possibly win more than one prize, blit
this should occur very seldom and should
be no disadvantage.”
“Cine Ma”: The other day a friend was
passing in his car along a Footscray thor-
oughfare when he saw two men bashing each
other, while a girl looked on weep-
ing. As one was half the size of
the other, and was getting much
the worse of the combat, my
friend, who is an amateur pugil-
ist. got out to inquire into the
rights and wrongs of the busi-
ness, and nearly stepped on a
cinematograph operator turning
a handle. Closer inspection re-
vealed that the blows apparently
being delivered on the face of the
little man were stopping just
short of their objective. Inci-
dents like this are getting so
common in Melbourne that sophis-
ticated citizens automatically con-
clude that any unusual happen-
ing is due to Mr. Thring’s myr-
midons being at it again. A
motor thief who was shepherded
on to a fire-alarm standard by a
pursuer in another vehicle got
clean away because bystanders
thought it was a rehearsal for a
screen masterpiece.
“Patch”: The intimation that
the seats of the new Sydney
trams are to be covered with'
crepe rubber is gladdening news
for the tailors and outfitters of
the community. Some years ago,
when the stuff first came on the
market, an enthusiastic friend
presented me with a cushion cov-
ered with the new product for my
office chair. It took only about
a fortnight to set me studying
Henry Lawson’s threnody on defi-
cient pants with renewed interest.
It was not until three pairs had
gone west that I tumbled to the
cause of the mysterious. happen-
ing and cast the cushion into
outer darkness.
“C.Q.”: Australian religious institutions
get some queer benefactions, but it would
be hard to beat a legacy which has just
come the way of the Cardinal Archbishop of
Paris. It consists of the twin cabarets of
“Heaven” and “Hell” at Montmartre, where
foreign tourists are taken to see what they
fondly imagine is the real night life of the
Parisian. In “Heaven” the waiters are
dressed like angels and m ‘Hell like devils,
The Cardinal Archbishop is already the pro-
prietor of the largest cafe-ctim-dance-hall m
Montparnasse, as the result of a previous
benefaction,
*
“Exdig” : A point m war neurology was
touched when counsel for the defence m a
New Plymouth (M.L.) murder case brought
out the fact that the accused killed his
wife and children at 6 a.m. on beptember
15, exactly the time when he had taken
part in a hop-over on the Somme 16 years
before—his most nerve-racking war experi-
ence. The tendency to lose self-control at
certain recurring seasons, such as the anm-
versaries of their woundings, lias been noted
by doctors in charge of mental cases at
military hospitals. This is natural enoug ,
stirred memories being responsible; but
there are puzzling variations. Such a one
is that of a loss-of-memory ex-Higgei,
whose mind is a complete blank as tar as
his war experiences are concerned. His
mental balance has been completely restored
except for half-yearly lapses when he cannot
remember anything, these periods coincid-
ing regularly with the anniversaries of
Bullecourt and a minor war incident at
Strazeele in which he took part. Since, as
part of his treatment, this ex-soldier has
never been, reminded of his war history,
the periodicity of his trouble appears to be
quite automatic. Similar cases arc well-
known in England, but are less remarkable
there, where seasonal conditions are much
more conducive to the reviving of sinister
memories.
“Oxmead”: “There is no part of Aus-
tralia that can compare with Tasmania,”
said Prime Minister Lyons with patriotic
-enthusiasm the other day; “its beauty has
become a byword throughout the Common-
wealth.” Which suggests that the meaning
capable of being assigned to “byword” must
have altered a good deal since the trans-
lators of the Bible rendered a sentence in
Proverbs “Thou makest us a byword among
the heathen,” or even since Adam Lindsay
Gordon wrote in “The Rhyme of Joyous
Gard”
1 would languish thus in some loathsome den
As a thing of naught in the eyes of men,
In the mouths of men as a byword.
But has it altered so much that it sig-
nifies the exact opposite of. what it did ?
I am quite aware that the dictionaries give
“a trite saying, a proverbial phrase,” as a
TOO LITERAL.
“Is it true you’ve chucked that boy who was in the' movies"
“I have, dear I saw him driving a f urniture van last week.”
secondary meaning of “byword, but Y\ eb-
ster. qualifies this with the statement that
the word is “usually employed in a bad
sense” • and Lyons was a schoolmaster.
“Household word” would have been much
better.
“S.V.”: Melbourne fire-fighting authori-
ties are seriously perturbed about thefalse-
alarm nuisance, and one proposal is for
a type of alarm switch which can only be
operated by inserting the hand upwards
through a hole. As soon as the switch is
turned the hole contracts, imprisoning the
alarm-giver’s wrist. He is thus faced with
the alternative of biting or sawing his hand
off or waiting for the brigade. The device
is said to work satisfactorily in many
American cities, but I think that the free-
born Melbourne citizen would sooner see
even the State Theatre burnt to the .ground
than submit, to mechanical arrest in this
fashion. Moreover, no account is taken of
such a contingency as a householder rushing
out to give the alarm and then being pre-
vented from tearing back to rescue his wife
and children.
“Turl” • The old type of magistrate who
had no legal qualifications or training is
fast dying out in these enlightened days.
Yet some of those who had to learn as they
went along kept up their ends pretty well.
Westralia’s early-day goldfields wardens
were almost all of this type, and most of
them were creditable administrators of
justice. Thev came from, various countries
and classes. I was at Oxford with a man
who rowed in the college boat when it was
head of the river. Like many fine athletes
of those days he could not pass exams., and
the authorities, tired of his repeated failures,
suggested that lie should go out of resi-
dence. Seven or eight years later I was
amazed to encounter him presiding over a
Westralian police court. He wasn’t at all a
bad beak, either, having plenty of knowledge
of human nature to make up for other defi-
ciencies. Curiously enough, some 25 years
after his appointment he went back to
England on long- leave, passed the final
exam, at Oxford which had always beaten
him in his youth, and returned with his
belated B.A. degree. I don’t know that it
did him any good, but he seemed to get
a lot of satisfaction out of it.
* * * *
“C.M.”: There was a fresh outburst of
beards when the steamer Autolycus arrived
in Melbourne the other day, the captain and
officers having taken a vow not to allow
a razor to touch their chins during the ou-
tlays’ voyage from Glasgow. Moreover, before
starting they consulted a book on beards,
and each selected a variety. The first mate s
was an Imperial, the second’s a Dundreary,
and the captain sported a Louis XIV.
“Esters”: The repeal or modification of
prohibition is not going to be the unmixed
blessing that Uncle Sam anticipates, it a
recent cable is correct. This states that
plants for converting still wines into spark-
ling are all ready to operate in the TJ.S.A.
Genuine sparkling wines derive tlieir special
attraction from natural fermentation, due
to the addition of a small quantity of sugar
at a late stage of manufacture, and the
process takes some considerable time. What
are known as “cheap” sparkling wines are
simply still w T ines injected with a heavy
dose of carbonic acid gas. If this is the
sort of stuff that is about to burst on
thirsty Yanks, I would prefer their syn-
thetic gin.
“Bill O’C.” : In my paragraph in The Bul-
letin of 2/11/’i>2 I mentioned my hazard that
the downfall of a lawyer-civil servant was due
to the costs amounting to a few thousand
pounds which he had to pay to his own
solicitors and counsel in souie litigation. As
a matter of fact, that was not wholly a
hazard. It was based, partly at least, on my
reading of the press report of a statement
made by the lawyer-civil servant himself upon
his arrest. I drew the inference —and it may
be other people drew the same, inference-
that the accused himself had given this as
the reason for his downfall. The paragraph
does not necessarily refer to what the man
had to pay to bis own solicitors. In the
light of the facts since known to me, it could
not have been intended to mean any more
than that the money which the lawyer had
to find for out-of-pocket expenses, such as
printing of transcripts, fees in England, etc.,
was part of, of the beginning of, his financial
troubles. The statement in my paragraph
that shark bites shark with relish has, I am
informed and believe, caused pain among the
lawyers in the city mentioned and I am
afraid that I did an unintentional injustice
to them and in particular to the counsel and
solicitors who were concerned for the lawyer-
civil servant. I believe the approved prac-
tice amongst lawyers is the same as amongst
other learned professions. It is recognised
that they should not charge one another for
acting as solicitor or counsel for a profes-
sional brother, and this practice is, generally
speaking, loyally followed. There have been
exceptions to this rule, but these exceptions
are looked upon with, disfavor by the profes-
sion generally as things which should not be
done. The counsel and solicitors who acted
for the lawyer-civil servant concerned fought
the heavy and lengthy litigation in the State
Supreme Court and in the High Court of
Australia, the case ultimately going to the
Privy Council. They carried out the usual
practice and did not charge. I am sure they
did not regard themselves as having done any-
thing out of the ordinary in so refraining.
Naturally I regret any disparagement of the
profession, and more particularly of the
particular gentlemen concerned in the liti-
gation mentioned.
“S.YV': A budding lady novelist is
engaged on a story whose theme is the
eternal triangle, the three points being
composed of a beautiful and cultured heroine
who marries an honest but obtuse aviation
officer and falls in love with a good-looking
actor. Having as much idea of the propo-
sitions, problems and theorems of domestic
Euclid as she has of pegged exchanges,
she approached a couple of newspapermen
and begged them to take her to hear a
divorce suit. The pair were realists,_ and
after consultation decided that in the l inter-
ests of Australian literature it was then-
duty to help the lady. They told her
a case was coming on which should suit her
exactly. She turned up with' a large note-
book and a battery of pencils, in readiness
to take down the romantic details. The
case was one in which a shearer sued for a
decree against his wife, alleging that she had
been entertaining a commercial traveller. It
was unfortunately necessary for witnesses to
describe in detail the language used bv the
shearer on certain occasions, and there was,
other devastating evidence. The newspaper-
men had found a place for the literary damsel
between them, where she was so wedged in
by the narrow rows of seats that escape was
impossible except by the exercise of violence.
They are awaiting the appearance of the
novel with interest.
* ❖ * *
“C. Coral”: When H.M.A.S. Australia
gave her ’plane a run over the islands and
reefs of Torres Strait the other day, on
her way from Darwin to Port Moresby,
natives who had never seen a flying-machine
before fled into the scrub. At Darn-
lev Island a note was dropped- on to the
school-ground where the excited children
were assembled —the island’s first delivery
bv air-mail. Tbc ’plane should help con-
siderably in charting the waters of. Torres
Strait, only a portion of which job has
been done by the survey-ships; and possibly
new passages may be foiling for steamer
traffic going through the Strait.
BALLADE OF BABE BACKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“This season’s backless bathing costumes are viewed
disapprovingly by the wool industry.”
Phyllis, the harmless, necessary sheep
For long upon his back this land has borne,
But pride of place how may he hope to keep
When less and less of wool on yours is
worn ?
Beauty with next-to-notliing to adorn
May make enraptured artists’ senses totter
With positive delight, but (I’ll be sworn)
It hasn't that effect upon the squatter.
Though bigot wowsers wring their hands
and weep,
And sourly reckon modesty is torn,
When bare of back about the beach you leap,
And Mother Grundys snort in virtuous
scorn,
I’m not concerned for them a peppercorn.
If semi-nudeness jars they shouldn’t potter
About our golden foreshores, noon and
morn.
But, Phyllis, think a moment of the squatter.
At your anatomy he takes a peep;
He sees the rose but oh! he feels the
thorn.
With costs still piling up and wool so cheap,
Plow long, he asks himself, can flocks be
shorn
When these bewild’ring fashions maids
suborn
To flaunt more charms and more ’twixt neck
and trotter?
That stretch of flesh, I feel impelled to
warn,
Awakes antagonism in tlie squatter.
Phyllis, when next into the waves you’re
borne
Clad very near as lightly as an otter,
Think (if the mode continues) how forlorn
Ai.d desolate the outlook for the squatter.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


. '/Bloggs : The Sunday papers and tabloid
dailies have a trick of attaching photographs
to their news-items whenever possible. A
London cable about a riot in Trafalgar-
square usually leads to the publication of
a blurred object labelled “Nelson’s Pillar”;
a railway accident is responsible for “Char-
ing Cross Station,” the death of a famous
doctor for “Guy’s Hospital,” and so on.
“Parliament House, Canberra,” accompanies
local references to Federal politicians (I
have seen this edifice in a dozen papers
within the past month or so), and “Sydney
Trades Hall” is as sure to appear witn in-
formation about the doings of the Lang-
planners as “Sydney Town Hall” is to
illustrate the activities of city aldermen.
Does anyone take the slightest interest in
these niurky little reproductions of familiar
objects? I don’t, and I am satisfied that
the editors of the journals responsible take
a similar view. Last Wednesday the “Labor
Daily” mentioned that “the proposal that
the band of the Grenadier Guards should
tour Australia had been dropped.” The
announcement was decorated with a picture
of a French cuirassier caracoling along a
Paris street on a black charger. The fact
that the Grenadiers are foot-sloggers made
the thing all the more idiotic; but it pro-
bably wouldn’t have mattered if a photo-
graph of a Gurkha or a Chinese airman had
been used. Not one reader in a hundred
bothers to glance at the things.
“Ibn el Issar”: The Australian prospec-
tor has penetrated to most corners of the
earth, but G. P. Blue, who passed through
Sydney recently, has found new ground to
fossick in after 50 years of gold-hunting
in various countries. At the invitation of
the Government of Afghanistan he is going
to try to locate gold deposits in that delec-
table country, though many folk with some
knowledge of the Afghan would give the invi-
tation a miss. Gold-mining has never been
seriously tackled in Afghanistan, except fora
little alluvial work, but there is a fairly
extensive output of silver, some of the
mines in the Hindu Kush being regular pro-
ducers, though worked by primitive methods.
It will be interesting to see what happens
if big gold deposits are opened up. The
Afghan lias even less time for the out-
lander than old Paul Kruger had, yet the
Johannesburg discoveries proved too power-
ful in the end for the Boer reactionary.
* * =l= *
“Juggum": Officialdom must have done
pretty well over the sending of those Christ-
mas lambs to the U.K. (B. 9/11/’32). Con-
sidering that a 301 b. lamb, skin and all,
can be bought for about 2s. 6d. and that the
skin is worth about the same sum—in short,
that the carcase costs nil—it would appear
that the charge of fl 2s. 6d. to deliver the
lamb in the British Isles goes entirely in
transport costs at the rate of 9d. per
pound ! If 5000 lambs were dispatched by
well-meaning gift-senders, the transport ser-
vice and its branches received £5625.
■i* * * *
“H.A.L.”: I’ll back up “Croweater’s”
statement (B. 9/11/’32) that the colony of
South Aus. was not proclaimed under the
old bent tree at Glenelg. Mrs. Mantegani,
who was present as a child of 11, assured
my grandfather that the ceremony took place
on a blazing hot day, and, as was only
natural, the proclamation was read in the
shade of a tall red-gum, later cut down for
posts and firewood. But the vanished tree
stood fairly close to the old bent one, so
the tablet is not so far out.
* # * *
“Pawang”: Curious how easily the news-
papers dropped into war-time phraseology
over the machine-gunning of the Westralian
emus. “A war to
end war” was liow
one Melbourne daily
described it, though
anything less like a
battle than the
shooting of birds
could scarcely be
imagined. After the
first encounter the
Sandgroper war cor-
respondent reported
that reinforcements
were moving up
along the rabbit-
proof fence, the rein-
forcements being
more emus ignorant,
of what was in store
for them. One of
the officers in charge
of hostilities is
stated to have said
that if he had 300
soldiers with the in-
vulnerability of the
emu he would back
them against any
army corps in exist-
ence, but he forgot
that for every bird
killed 20 fled with
iron rations some-
where in their
bodies. An animal
that rivals the emu
in toughness is the
slow loris of Borneo,
a heavil y-furred
lemur. A charge of
small shot at close
quarters has no
effect on it what-
ever, and even a
rifle bullet does not
seem to interfere
with its digestion.
Consequently the
natives credit it with
magical qualities, and a loris bone carried in
the pocket confers invisibility, as well as
invulnerability, on the owner. The bones
are much sought after by burglars.
* * * H:
“Uncle Toby”: In a special article in
the Melbourne “Herald” an old gentleman
was introduced as having seen every Mel-
bourne Cup, excepting one. Old gentle-
men’s memories sometimes play them queer
tricks and this one’s seems to have been
particularly erratic. He remembered the
Savage Club’s coach leaving the Albion
Hotel, although the Savage Club was
founded in 1894 and the Albion Hotel had
disappeared years before. Cobb and Co.’s
coaches owed their success to their “mag-
nificent springs.” Actually they had no
springs of any kind whatever; they were
swung on leather thoroughbraces. Finally,
“My telephone rang one morning ; it was
June 24, 1890,” and a friend told him of
Adam Lindsay Gordon’s suicide. Gordon
shot himself, as most sub-editors know, in
1870, years before a telephone was heard,
or heard of, in Melbourne or anywhere else.
* * * *
“Strict Veg”: The Seven Wonders of the
World were, according to Philon of
Byzantium, the Hanging Gardens of Baby-
lon, the Pyramids, Phidias’s statue of Zeus
Olympms, the Wall of Babylon, the Colossus
of Rhodes, the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus
and the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus. A
correspondent of Melbourne “Sun” gives
his list of the Seven Wonders of Australia
as Sydney Harbor Bridge, Hume Weir,
Kalgoorhe pipe line, Mt. Buffalo Gorge, the
Blue Lake at Mount Gambier, Phar Lap
and Don Bradman. I think it is a very
honest list. _ There is no pretence about it.
iNo notice is taken of man-made works of
aesthetic aim, such as the Archibald Foun-
tain and the State Theatre, and quite rightly,
because those are a matter of taste, and
tastes vary not only individually between
man and man but between one age and
another. But it is scarcely fair to give
Australians the credit for wonders that were
executed by Nature. The principal difference
between Philon’s list and the Melbourne
writer’s is that the last-named includes
movable wonders. Phar Lap has been re-
moved to the other world, and Bradman has
to be chased, with autograph books, from
one capital city to another. It is curious,
however, that the Melbourne selector didn’t
include the Victorian Shrine of Remem-
brance, because that happens to be a copy
of the Mausoleum of Halicarnassus.
“They say she’s good for a quarter of a million.”
“Gee, I’d be good for half of that.”
“Weeton Whin”: One of the post-war
afflictions of once-Merrie England is the
propaganda against what are styled ‘‘blood
sports.” In the old days there was always
some self-advertising ass who inveighed
against fox- and stag-hunting, and even
shooting, though I never heard of one who
declined to eat venison or grouse. Of late
the crowd has been increasing in numbers
and virulence and has acquired a “good
press.” One result is the formation of
“The British Field Sports Society,” the
main object of which is to expose the, falsity
of much of the “anti” propaganda and to
watch the interests of field sports. Many
of the extracts from the “anti” press make
amusing reading. The training of young
fishermen in acts of cruelty such as “lacerat-
ing the mouths of fish” is one. Another is
the account of a badger being drawn from
his earth by ferrets! As for fox-hunting,
one learns that “Only arrant cowards can
follow to its death either fox or hare. It
is much more merciful to shoot the fox.”
Shades of Jorrocks and James Pigg! Again,
a lady with the fine old English name of
Mrs. Pinto Leite complains that the Prince
of Wales “is a cad” because, though he has
all he wants, he goes out and hunts “some
of God’s most beautiful creatures.”
* * ••[: *
“D.”: There’s another possible explana-
tion of Ruggles’s good luck, as recounted by
“P.X.” (B. 26/10/’32), in trading in an
Overland for which he had paid £2O as
w r orth £llO. Perhaps it was worth that to
the people who took it over. You can get
a few pounds—sometimes as much as a fiver
—on an old typewriter, however ruined it
looks to the lay or unprofessional eye. When
it goes to be reconditioned it resembles the
pig of Chicagoan tradition; nothing is lost
but the squeak—or, anyhow, not much.
Astonishing effects can be got from old cars
with the introduction of a few spares and
a lick or two of paint and duco., And
remember that in these hard times only
about 5 per cent, of the motoring population
of Australia are buying new cars.
* * * Hs
“H.C.W.”: I have seen a cleric in a
barber’s shop, if no one else has (B.
2/11/’32). It was at Sydney in January,
1926; in the chair next to me was the Arch-
bishop of Melbourne, the late Dr. Harrington
Lees. He was attired in a sac suit, and
was not wearing a clerical collar, so possibly
he may have acquired some of the latest
racing information.
❖ * ❖
“Coif”: How’s this for legal hair-split- j
ting? In Sydney the other day a trap was
set for a suspected postal
employee. A letter con-
taining marked notes was
stamped and posted, but
detectives collected it and
took it by hand to the
suburban office where the
suspect worked. It is
alleged that one of the
marked 10s. notes placed
in the letter was
found on. him. He was
charged with stealing a
note, “being portion of a
postal article, a letter
sent by post, the property
of the P.M.G.” His
counsel promptly took
the point that the letter
and enclosure were not
“postal articles,” having-
been carried by hand to
the address given. The beak upheld the
contention and discharged the accused.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: “If Melbourne adopts the
new styles of beach wear it will be an un-
mistakable sign that we are going the way
of ancient Rome,” says an indignant reader
of the “Sun,” Melbourne, signing herself
“Miss Modesty.” The remark suggests a
mind which has graduated in the history
course provided by the movies. Roman
civilisation didn’t become more licentious
as it decayed; it became more moralistic.
When the capital of the empire was shifted
to Constantinople a frenzy of asceticism
seized the population. Thousands of people
turned monk or nun and retired into the
desert to spend their lives in prayer, fast-
ing and meditation. Many were no doubt
tormented by visions of the opposite sex
costumes even scantier than those winned a
by the Brighton council. Far from tn
decline of Borne being due to excess iv
bathing, the surest way to sainthood wa
to eschew soap and avoid the razor iiKe
the Devil. Despite this austerity tlie
empire continued to decay, though it t<ioK
1000 years to go completely rotten. Duri.n»
all this period, though the youth wei e
familiar with Socrates, Plato and Aristotle,
the descendants of Rome did not produce a
single painting, statue, scientific idea or
work of literature worth a moment’s con-
sideration.
* :!= *
“Sans Culotte” : Photographs of the recent
rioting in Belfast make a feature of the
piles of cobblestones torn from the pave-
ments and ranged in orderly rows along the
gutters as ammunition for the mob. It
is surprising that a turbulent city like
Belfast should still cling to the dangerous
—in a double sense—cobble-paved streets.
When Baron PTaussmann re-designed old
Paris he not only laid out long, straight
boulevards, in which artillery could operate
efficiently, but paved them with asphalt
which, even when dug up, was little use
for missiles and less for making barricades.
# H! * *
“Dromio”: The emu battle in Westralia
—“an offensive against vermin” one paper
sweepingly terms it—has at least done
something, to enlarge one’s knowledge of
natural history. That is, if the following
from the pen of the “West Australian’s”
special representative is to be accepted as
hard fact:—
The emus are not so stupid as they are usually
considered. Each mob has its leader, always an
enormous black-plumed bird standing fully six feet
high, who keeps watch while his fellows busy them-
selves with the wheat. At the first suspicious sign
he gives a signal and dozens of heads stretch up out
of the crop. A few birds will start a headlong
stampede for the scrub, the leader always remaining
until his followers have reached safety.
South African baboons throw out scouts
and sentinels when raiding the farmers’
crops, but when their warning has been
given they streak for safety as quickly as
the rest. With the emus, apparently, the
captain must be the last to leave the sinking
ship.
UNDER OBSERVATION.
SALESMAN: “Is your mother at home?"
BOY: “D’you think I’d he clipping the lawn
if she wasn’t?”
“Clarence Cafeteria”: A superstition that
dies hard, even in these times, is that the
unemployed are unemployed because they
won’t work. It is a belief that plays right
into the hands of muddling politicians, and
it is held most firmly by people who by luck
rather than any intrinsic virtue find, them-
selves still in jobs and resent having to
pay relief taxes. One such, a woman, was
holding forth on this theme in mixed com-
pany when one of her hearers suggested
that she should test her theory by adver-
tising that her position was available to
suitable applicants. It stopped the flow of
her eloquence.
SPARTANS.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
“The depression has served to bring the character
of the Australian into closer line with that of the
ancient Spartan.”— Melbourne “Age.”
Has’t given you a Spartan complex, brothers
And sisters, this infernal lack of pence
That vexes public men (and countless
others),
This slump from affluence to indigence?
D’you feel, ’neath these financial coercions,
Like those indomitable hundreds three
Who stayed the onrush of a myriad Persians
Before they perished at Thermopylae;
Who died obedient, beyond dispute, to
Their country’s bidding and their race’s
weal,
And went contentedly to sup with Pluto?
Is that the way you feel?
O, they were tough and veritable he-men,
A blend of whipcord and of steel allied,
Those products of historic Laeedanuon
Whose prowess was to humble Athens’
pride.
To stoic hardihood they won their titles,
Not warriors only, but the veriest weans,
Like him who stole a fox and had his vitals
Gnawed by his prize before he’d spill the
beans.
What though they set no store by art or
science,
Iu patriotism glowing and complete,
Valor, frugality and self-reliance,
They’ve never yet been beat.
D'you feel, now worries nark and taxes
flay us,
And piping times into the past have slid,
More like the townies of Agesilaus,
My brothers and my sisters, than you did ?
They fed, you know, in communal content-
ment,
Black bread and soup their sustenauee-in-
chief;
I doubt they ever knew what lamb-and-mint
meant
Or in a month o’ Sundays tasted beef.
Still, it would seem your urge for whisky’s
waning,
With imports scarce a tenth of wliat they
were.
Maybe there’s something faintly appertaining
To Spartanism there.
SIR!
“It's been a great run. Where can I grab hold of you to-morrow
night?”
Hyperbole or not, at least it heartens
To learn that in these times of strain
and stress
We’re getting closer into line with Spartans
And Sybaritic traits grow less and less.
There’s lots to’ copy in those patriot-zealots
Who aimed at keeping in condition’s pink,
And poured their wine into receptive Helots
To show what sorry pranks men play in
drink.
Spartans ! The very simile’s a tonic.
It only needs, to make the figure good,
For politicians to become laconic.
Say, don’t you wish they would?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


1
NO HIGHER QUALITY MOTOR OIL
THAN
SHELL
CAN BE PURCHASED TO-DAY
5.1357
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Archdale Parkhill, Postmaster-General,
has already had a spell as acting-Prime Min-
ister at Canberra, which shows how the
value of portfolios alters with the years.
When the first Federal Cabinet, consisting
mostly of State ex-Premiers, was formed, in
1901, this office, regarded as the least, im-
portant of all, was assigned to John Forrest,
and John regarded it as rather a slight.
However, he took it, and the death of James
Dickson, very soon afterwards, moved him
up a step to the Department of Defence.
For some years afterwards the P.M.G.-sliip
ranked as the “wooden spoon” of the Cab-
inet, the portion of the last man in. Hugh
Mahon held it in the first Labor Govern-
ment, and Sydney Smith in George Reid’s
only Administration. After that, for some
reason, it began to appreciate in value, and
now a P.M.G. may rank nearer the top of
the list than the bottom.
Leslie Blackwell, K.C., one of the members
for Johannesburg in the Union Parlia-
ment, who has been denouncing Hertzog
as “the greatest curse S. Africa has
ever had,” was born at Ballarat, and got
his early education there. In these days
he is recognised as one of the finest advo-
cates in the Transvaal, and has a very large
practice. He asserts that Hertzog is
steadily pushing the British out of every
public position—“and I make this pre-
diction, that within 10 years it will be almost
impossible to find an English-speaking South
African serving in any capacity under the
Grown.” Incidentally, a writer in the Rand
“Daily Mail” predicts that “at the next
general election General Hertzog will come
in with a working majority of liis own, in-
dependent of the now-defunct Labor party,
and then things will occur rapidly as they
have done in Ireland.”
Dr. Horace Belshaw, of Auckland Uni.
(M.L.), was born in Lancashire, but his
parents brought him to the Shivery Isles
at an early age, and he is a graduate of
Canterbury College. He went to Cambridge
as Gresham scholar and added Ph.D. to his
degrees. For the last five years he has occu-
pied the Chair of Economics in Maoriland’s
northernmost city. Recently he has been in
the public eye as an advocate of a higher
exchange rate and lower bank rates. Also
he has been examining the affairs of forestry
Professor BELSHAW (M.L.).
bond companies and has asked the Govern-
ment to set up a Royal Commission to inves-
tigate such flotations and devise legislative
safeguards for investors. Prof. Belshaw’s
special subject, however, is agricultural
credits, and some of his ideas on that sub-
ject have found their way into the M.L.
Statute Book.
Bernard C. (“Barney”) Olde, M.L.A. for
Leichhardt (N.S.W.) since 1927, died on
Sunday after a long illness. He was born at
Bathurst 50 years ago, and most of his life
had been spent at Petersham, where his
connection with the Labor movement began.
He was one of the original members of the
Clerks’ Union, and after several bids for
Parliament he defeated J. J. Fitzgerald, a
former Minster, in the Labor selection ballot
and secured the Leichhardt seat. He held
it during the landslide of a few months back,
fatal to so many of his Langite colleagues.
“Barney” was on the staff of the “Labor
Daily.”
Some time ago Justice William Floyd
Webb, of Queensland, decided a question
about peanuts, and set all the Constitutional
lawyers buzzing. A Queenslander wanted
to send a few bags of peanuts to Victoria
and had them on a wharf for the purpose,
but there is a Peanut Pool, constituted
under the State Marketing Act, so the board
collared the lot. Webb, J., said it had no
right to do it—that this was an infringe-
ment of the Federal Constitution, which
gave freedom of trade between the States.
Now the High Court has to decide just what
that means —anyhow, whether it means that
Justice WEBB (Q.).
a State can order any group of producers
to pool their products, even though one of
them wants to ship his little lot to another
State. Webb is one. of the many home-
grown and home-trained lawyers on the
Queensland Bench, and graduated through
the public service—he was, first, Public De-
fender and afterwards Crown Solicitor
before he became president of the Arbitra-
tion Court. The High Court thinks the
appeal from his judgment raises such im-
portant issues that it has refused to listen
to suggestions for a postponement of hear-
ing. Personally it might be glad to put it
off for a while, because several High Court
Judges have lately been on the sick list —
including the nearly-81-year-old Chief.
“Spasebo” : I came upon evidence of the
late Sam McKay’s enterprise in pre-Bolshe-
vik days in the middle of Siberia. One
night the transcontinental train was drawn
up on a siding to let a freight go by. A
string of trucks passed, each with some
object in it shrouded in a tarpaulin. One
of the coverings blew aside, and I saw a
gleam of scarlet and the Sunshine trade-
mark on a harvester. It was Sam himself
who, on a visit, drew the attention of the
Czar’s advisers to the existence of the Aus-
tralian invention. As keen on breaking the
conservatism of the moujik as the Commun-
ists are now, they were engaged in planting
Siberia with colonies of settlers.
There have been a lot of “Fighting Macs”
since Hector MacDonald, but the best-
known one in these parts is essentially a
man of peace—Salvation Army Commis-
sioner McKenzie. McKenzie has been com-
manding officer in Melbourne of the Southern
Australian territory of the Booth-lliggins
organisation for the past three years, and
is to be transferred to Sydney (and rhe
Eastern command) early next year. The
Commissioner had his sobriquet conferred
on him when he served with the A.I.F. dur-
ing the war; and both then and afterwards
lie did good service for the Digger.
The Coal Commission sitting in West-
ralia has revealed some interesting things
about profits made by individuals out of
Collie mines. One of “the fortunate ones,”
as the Commissioner put it, was ex-Prcmier
Wilson, who has been dead some years ; in
1920, as general manager, he received
close on £5OOO, his remuneration being based
on 5 per cent, of the coal sales. Wilson,
who was a shrewd Yorksliireman and a very
able speaker, was a prominent figure in
Parliament for 20 years, and was a member
of many Ministries, eventually heading two.
In the' war years his party grew tired of
and deposed him —it was alleged that he
was too autocratic and didn’t suffer fools
as gladly as a Premier should —and soon
afterwards he lost his seat. Few discarded
politicians find their business talents valued
so highly outside Parliament as Wilson did.
Had Sydney acquired a new evening paper
last week, as' it very nearly did, the infant
would have been called the “Star,” and old
Sydney ears would have heard again a
familiar street cry. For the “Sun” was
the “Star” before Fordyce Wheeler per-
suaded Hugh Denison that there was a
fortune in newspapers. The “Star” —“Aus-
tralian Star,” to be exact —was originally
set up as the organ of the Protectionist
party, and after William Henry Traill left
The Bulletin to go into politics he to ole
a hand in guiding it. It never had a large
capital, but a good deal of what there was
came from the brewery Tooheys and their
friends. Its best-known manager in its
later years was J. Milton Sanders after-
wards a practising barrister. It was he
who, having to explain to still another share-
holders’ meeting that there was no dividend
for them, thought to bring consolation with
the remark that financially their position
was quite O.K. —they had a fine stock of
paper in store, all paid for. “Then why
not sell it before you spoil it?” came from a
cantankerous shareholder in a back seat.
These cantankerous shareholders always are
in back seats.
Dr. Richard Kleeman, whose death in
New York is reported, was another talented
Australian who had to go abroad for recog-
nition. Born at Rowlands Flat (S.A.), he
was assistant to Sir William Bragg at Adel-
aide University in 1901. In 1908 he secured
the degree of D.Sc.; a travelling scholarship
took him to Cambridge, where he carried out
research work in connection with radium
radiations and landed numerous prizes. In
1915 he was appointed to the chair of physics
at Union College, Schenectady (U.S.A.), and
was for years consulting research physicist
to the General Electric Co. of America. He
published several works on liis special sub-
jects and his name was known throughout
the scientific world.
John Liverseed, who has turned his last
furrow in Brisbane at 74, was one of Queens-
land’s first exponents of scientific farming.
A Durham man, he entered the Agri-
cultural Department in 1894, subsequently
taking charge of the State farm at Hermit-
age, which he conducted for 20 years until
it was closed down in 1928. He was deeply
interested in the production of rust-resisting
wheats, and met with considerable success.
At an earlier period he was a member of a
party sent to Papua to obtain fresh varieties
of sugar-cane, and these were introduced to
the Queensland plantations with satisfac-
tory results. In 1901, when the Indian
Government acquired a number of high-
class dairy-cattle, Liverseed took them to
India.
Malcolm Brown, C.P. member for Upper
Hunter in the N. S. Wales Assembly, owes
his election to the fact that he declined to
knuckle down to the party bosses. When
Bill Cameron, who had represented Upper
Hunter for 13 years, died about 18 months
ago, it was thought he would be followed by
a Nationalist nominee. There was an un-
written understanding between the Nation-
alist and Country parties that seats regarded
as Nationalist should not be contested by a
C.P. candidate, and that C.P. seats should
not be contested by Nationalists. Upper
Huftter farmers, however, wanted Malcolm
Brown so strongly that they persuaded him
to run as an Independent C.P. candidate in
opposition to A. M. McMullin, the Nation-
MALCOLM BROWN, N.S.W. Country
party ML.A.
alist. Although the C.P. gave him no offi-
cial support, Brown, with the aid of Labor
second prefs., defeated McMullin by 584
votes. At the election of last. June he was
given an open go by the Nationalists, and
easily disposed of the Lang-planner and the
Independent who stood against him. He
is cheery and corpulent, around about the
half-century mark. A native of Jerry’s
Plain, near Singleton, he has done practi-
cally every kind of rural work, and has
given half a lifetime of useful service to
the welfare of his district.
Wesley Lathlean, dead in Adelaide at 67,
was a zealous Methodist from his cradle, and
filled about every office open to a layman. He
was also a sound business man, director of
Crooks and Brooker, and treasurer of Prince
Alfred College. His son Clifford lives in
Sydney.
Another oilman who has travelled far and
wide in the course of his career is Murray
Tenison Lloyd, managing of the
Commonwealth Refineries. Born in Kent and
educated at Cambridge, Lloyd was in India
in his early twenties in one of that country’s
famous merchant firms. He joined British
Petroleum in 1922, and nine years ago was
asked to acquaint himself thoroughly with
The Chief of the C.O.R.
Australian conditions. His official appoint-
ment came in 1932. He is best known as the
man who introduced “leaded” petrol to the
Australian market. Sir John Lloyd, director
of Anglo-Persian, is a brother.
Robert Connell, the Westralian Police Com-
missioner, is retiring at 65 from the job he
has held for nearly 20 years. His regime
has been an even and uneventful one, quite
unlike that of his predecessor, the late
Frederick Hare, who once threatened a
paper with a libel action for charging him
with having used a Government launch
for taking chorus-girls on a picnic up the
river, and on another occasion was sus-
pended for expressing the opinion that a
visiting Commissioner, employed to investi-
gate the conditions of natives in the North,
had obtained material for his report from
“the scum and riff-raff of the seaports.” Con-
nell, a man who had worked his way up the
force, was quietly efficient and happier with-
out any sort of limelight.
There is something to be said for the
purchase of titles the way .William
McGregor, president of the Queensland Cale-
donian Society, did it. On a recent visit
to his homeland lie became the Laird of
Lethermweel by the simple process of buy-
ing the village of that name —his birthplace
—-lock, stock and barrel. The Brisbane
Scot tended sheep on its hillsides in his
boyhood, and he now proposes to improve
the condition of the villagers without making
money out of them.
Archibald Campbell, passed out at 70,
was formerly one of the best-known figures
in the wool trade of Sydney; he was the
senior auctioneer of the firm of Harrison,
Jones and Devlin, and conducted the Wool
Column of the “Daily Telegraph” in the
’nineties before becoming an estate agent at
Waverley. For many years he was an
alderman of Randwick, and Mayor in 1913-
14. He was a life member of the committee
of the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, and
during the war was associated with the late
Judge Hamilton in the conduct of the Divi-
sional Ammunition Park Comforts Fund. In
his spare time he was a Shakspearean
scholar.
Just retired from the position of Engineer-
in-Chief and Under-Secretary of the M.L.
Public Works Department, Frederick Wil-
liam F'nrkert, who has been associated with
the biggest engineering achievements ever
carried through in the Dominion. These
include the Main Trunk railway (Auclcland-
Wellington), the Otira tunnel and the
electrical works of Arapuni and Waitaki.
Furkert, who was born in Westland 56 years
ago, tried to get away to the war, but the
Minister of Railways refused to spare him,
giving him the job of constructing military
camps instead.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire „
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Geligrnite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.,
Reserve Fund ~
Reserve Liability
£8,780,000
6,150,000
8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Buy Standardised
Belting
There’s a Pioneer Leather Belt
to suit every type of drive.
■WHEN you specify Pioneer Leather
Belting you are sure to get depend-
ability, plus extra years of sendee.
Every Pioneer Leather Belt is made to
a definite standard of thickness from the
best quality belt leather, and carries
our replacement guarantee should
defects in quality of material or work-
manship develop
If you have a belting problem our
experts will advise you without obli-
gation.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING.
Manufactured since 1858 by
J. c. LUDOWICI & SON, LIMITED,
117 York Street, Sydney; and
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
«
Adelaide Electric Supply Co., Ltd.
i — Nomi-
I Net Ords. To Rc- nal Re-
Aug., Profit.* Prefs. 12 p.e. serves, serves.
*j££ £ £ £
1923. .143,268 50,997 60,000 32,271 343,875
1924. .1170,131 81,877 60,000 28,254 372,129
1925.. 243,554 97,400 60,000 86,156 458,283
Loss on Grcnfell-street plant, £321,737.. 136,546
1926.. 307,208 119,482 60,000 127,726 264,272
1927.. 338,879 134,952 60,000 143,927 408,199
1928.: 320,260 155,857 60,000 104,403 512,602
1929.. 366,261 166,406 60,000 139,855 652,457
.Written off plant, £99,398 .. .. 553,059
\1930.. 344,518 172,500 60,000 112,01 S 065,077
Written off plant, £20,146 . . . . 644,931
84 p.c.
1931.. 354,797 172,500 42,500 139,797 784,728
Written off plant, £67,906 .. .. 716,822
Transferred tej suspense account, ]
£40,000 .1 .. .. j-100.747 817,569
1932.. 355,747) 172,500 42,500 J
*lncW3es provision for debenture sinking fund.
The committee appointed by the Government
to inquire into the co.’s affairs reported “the
undertaking efficiently managed, and con-
ducted with due regard to the obligations
of a co. holding a public franchise.” How-
ever, unless something unexpected prevents
net revenue increasing with output, it is
considered that charges to consumers should
be reduced by the equivalent of at least
£40,000 as from the beginning of September;
and further reductions might be expected
later. It is also recommended that £40,000
bo held in suspense pending settlement of
the exchange question in connection with
London capital; if not so required this fund
to he used to reduce further the charges to
the consumer.
Broadly, these charges are governed by
interest and divs. on the borrowed and share
capital, allowances for depreciation, etc.,
arid the cost of generation and distribution.
The share and debenture capital is made up
as follows:
, Capital Stock Debenture Stock
Adelaide. London. Adelaide. London.
£ £ £ £
Pref. 6 p.c. 149,500 100,500 5 p.c. 49,979
„ 5 „ A 250,000 6 A A £42,900
„ 8 ~ B 249,450 530 74 „ B 350,000
„ 64 „ O 578,046 421,954 54 ~ G 18,700 932,274
P.Ord.Bp.c. 742,976 7,024 6 ~ D 260,000
Ords. 491,417 8,583
Headquarters were transferred from Lon-
don to. Adelaide in 1922. Owing to rapid
expansion during the period of dear money,
the share and debenture capital combined
was costing the co. 61 p.c. at Aug. 31,
whereas the average interest payable on
Government-owned public utilities in S. Aus.
was 5 p.c. The difference would mean a
saving of nearly £70,000 p.a. to the co. on
the figures at Aug. 31. But consumers
would got no immediate relief in this respect
if the Government took over the business;
compensation would have to be assessed at
a figure sufficient under existing conditions
to . yield. the owners the amount they now
receive in interest and divs. Moreover,
plant capacity is well in excess of demand
at the moment. Whether the co. lias power
to .repay capital has not been made clear.
Price fixing is not favored by the committee,
though there is always the possibility that
the Government may bring down legislation
in this respect.
As for depreciation, the co. makes no
specific allowance under this head. Over
the 26 years to the close of accounts in
1931 allowances for sinking funds, etc.
(£1,020,434), averaged 2.14 p.c. on capital;
the amount actually written off was
£482,599, chiefly on account of obsolescence.
The efficiency of the plant, price of coal and
level of wages are the chief factors affecting
generating and distributing costs.
The co.’s trading figures compare as
follows: —
1922. 1931. 1932.
Gross revenue .. .. £372,466 £747,826 £750,136
Operating exes. & taxes 215,924 299,015 289,772
Net revenue .. .. £156,542 £448,811 £460,364
After deducting debenture interest (£118.253)
and allowing for an unexplained addition
(£13,636) to reserves, there was £140,747
more than last year’s pref. requirements
and 81- p.c. to' the ords. called for. Of the
£140,747, £40.000 was earmarked for ex-
change, as recommended; the £100,747 that
remained was 2.01 p.e. on the book value
of the undertaking (£4.954,364) at Aug.
31. Incidentally, share premiums make 81
p.c. worth no more than 6.7 p.c. to original
holders of the ords.
To meet £84,747 coming to sundry credi-
tors, there were stores (£94,066), book debts
(£124,850) and cash and investments
£520,388), totalling £739,304.
On the market the prefs. ax-e priced to
yield a shade under 5 p.c. At 31s. 9d. the
preferreds return 5.1 p.e.; the oi-ds. at 355.
6d. yield 4.8 p.c. on an 81 p.c. div. basis.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
, Dividends N
Net Pref. Ord. To Nominal
Profit. 8 p.c. 10 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1924. . 62,277 1,358 37,500 23,419 277,426
1925.. 61,655 9,881 37,500 14,274 291,700
1926.. 62,935 11,981 37,500 13,454 305,154
Unexplained addition to Reserves,
£20,000 325,154
12$ p.e.
1927.. 79,684 12,000 46,875 20,809 345,963
10 p.c.
1928.. 85,002 12,000 37,500 35,502 381,465
1929.. 50,804 12,000 37,500 1,304 373,394
Unexplained reduction in reserves,
£73,589 299,805
Loss 2 $ p.c.
1930. . 18,504 12,000 9,375 259,926
Debt recoveries and capital profits,
£8172 268,098
1931.. 32,930 Nil Nil - 235,168
1932.. 4,759 Nil Nil 230,409
There is £525,000 of capital in 150,000 8
p.c. cum. prefs. and 375,000 ords. The
public took up the prefs. in 1924, mainly to
pay off the debt on Her Majesty’s Theatre
block, Sydney. Since then the talkies and
broadcasting have greatly altered the out-
look. The co. itself plunged into the pic-
ture-theatre business, but without success
financially. Slump and taxation have made
the business generally unprofitable, and the
pref. div. had fallen two years into arrears
at June 30. “The Firm” has more theatres
on its hands than it knows what to do. with
at the moment. Some it has leased to the
picture cos.; of others it is making the best
use it can without much capital expendi-
ture. When the outlook clears and the board
can see more definitely where the business
stands, assets are to be revalued and the
capital account reconstructed.
How severely earnings have contracted
over the last live years the following table
makes plain
Gross 1927. 1930. 1931. 1932.
earnings .. £206,195 £61,570 £21,687 . £34,031
Exes. . . 126,511 80,074 54,617 38,790
Net profit .. £79,684 £18,504* £32,930* £4,759*
*Loss.
There was- a welcome turn of the tide last
year. Gi-oss earnings sprang £9344; and
exes., with the assistance of interest reduc-
tion legislation, were pulled back £15,827,
reducing- the loss to £4759. Operations for
the last half of the term showed a profit,
the chairman says, and the outlook has
brightened since. Allowing for the statutory
cut (221 p.c.), there will be £30,500 (-2s.
Id. per share) of accrued divs. coming to
the prefs. at the close of next accounts.
But balance-sheet figures are riot inspir-
ing:
1925. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £525,000 £525,000 £525,000 £525,000
Liabilities . . 270,738 626,418 617,200 604*234
Freehold, ward-
robe, good-
will, etc. . . 606,654 700,022 070,755 063,144
Shares other cos. 394,325 315,128 278,888 279,966
Book debts .. 94,681 384,173 420,929 409,535
Public securities,
cash, etc. .. 10,529 12,022 6,795 6,997
Last year £3950 was snipped off the over-
draft (now £178,875) and £9OlB off the
amount coming to sundry creditors
(£425,356, including debentures and mort-
gages) . Still, the outside liabilities exceeded
debtors’ balances and cash, etc., combined
by £187,702 at June 30. Shares in other
cos. consist chiefly of scrip in Hoyts,
which took over J.C.W.’s picture theatres
seven years ago; but no divs. have been
paid by that co. on its “C” or ord. shares
since 1927. Hoyts (now controlled by Fox
Film Corp., U.S.A.) and the Greater Union
group have decided to weld their interests
in a new concern, General Theatres Corp.,
as from Jan. 1. Details have not yet been
announced.
The market prices Williamson’s, prefs. at
10s.
Clifford Loyg and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
!~sTeir To Nominal
Sept., iProfit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1922.. 19,646 10 p.c. - 12,861 6,785 28,123
Premium on shares .. 10,000 38,123
1923.. ’AS,SOI 10 p.c. = 16,911 1,590 39,713
1924.. 123,762 i 10 „ „ 16,911 6,851 46,564
1925.. ‘>28,100 124 „ „ 21,138 6,962 53,526
1926.. ;28,989 12$ „ „ 21.138 7,851 61.377
1927.. * 28,757 124 „ „ 22,896 5,861 67,238
1928.. 132,337 i 124 „ „ 25,599 6,738 73,976
1929.. 132,958 i 124 „ „ 26,423 6,535 80,511
1930.. ,27,633 • 124 „ „ 2G,423 1,210 81,721
1931.. 125,539 f 10 ~ „ 21,138 4,401 86,122
1932.. 1 23,1251 10 „ „ 21,138 1,987 88,109
This dfFgOTkls merchant turns out several
well-established proprietary lines, and its
new plant lias helped to keep down produc-
tion costs. But competition has sharpened,
and demand swung towards the cheaper-
priced goods, carrying narrower profit mar-
gins. Thus turnover inis fallen, away, and,
after setting aside £lO,OOO for taxation and
openly reserving £5OO for doubtful debts, the
declared profit for the past year was £2414
short of the previous year’s at 10.9 p.c. _on
capital as against 12. 13. 15.5, 15.4, 15.6
and 17.1 p.c. back to 1926.
That raises the question whether the 10
p.e. is likely to be maintained. There is
no certainty that it will be. Much depends
upon whether the co. can hold turnover at
present prices, and upon the extent to which
outgoings can be further curtailed. Taking
net additions to reserves for contingencies,
depreciation, insurance, etc., into the reckon-
ing (£9lO last year as against £12,620 in
the previous term), the net result was 11.3
p.c. on capital as against IS, 19.9 and 20.5
p.c. back to 1929. On the market the price
of the fully-paid pound shares dropped
sharply from 435. to 38s. following publica-
tion of the sheet. The return at the lower
figure is 5-2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis-, or
4.7 p.c. on a 9 p.c. distribution. Including
the reserves for depreciation, etc., the net
tangible backing is 38s. lOd.
For nearly half a century family interests
held the scrip tight. The public became
interested 10 years ago, when Brown and
Poison’s business was absorbed. Since then
£155,936 net has been added to' the hook
value of premises and plant, £82,776 of
fresh capital has been gathered and £30,938
has been knocked off the outside debt: —
1922. 1931. 1932.
Faid capital .. . .£ 128,607 £211,383 £211,383
Mortgages and overdraft 47,027 18,332 15,623
Trading debts . . . . 17,351 23,244 17,817
Properties 66,265 146,481 146,813
Machinery, plant, etc... 59,541 133,277 134.929
Stocks 48,347 82,362 70,613
Book debts . . . . 32,540 32,391 29,250
Cash and sundries . . 5,285 9,399 15,067
Last year stocks were reduced by £11,749
and debtors’ balances by £3141. Cash, etc.,
was strengthened by £5668, and £2709 was
clipped off the mortgage, etc., and £5427 off
the trade debt. Altogether, the more or less
liquid surplus (£81,490, including stocks)
shrank £lOB6.
James Stedman Henderson’s Sweets
, Dividends Nominal
l’ref. To Re- Re-
Profits. 10 p.e. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ .V £ • £ £
1925.. 33,379 10,000 2J p.c. = 13,267 10,112 83,544
Deficit.
Transferred to specific reserves, £35,874.. 2,330
Nom. Res.
1926.. 40,035 10,000 4 p.c. = 21,228 8,807 6,477
1927.. 47,118 10,000 6 „ „ 81,841 5,277 11,754
1928.. 50,024 10,000 6 „ „ 31,841 8,183 19,937
1929.. 52,912 10,000 6 „ „ 31,841 11,071 31,008
1930.. 26,072 10,000 3 „ „ 15,921 151 31,159
1931.. 13,011 10,000 Nil 3,01134,170
1932.. 17,124 *8,031 l£ p.c. = 7,960 1,138 35,303
*22-$ p.c. statutory cut from Oct. 1, 1931.
Confectionery is a luxury easily dispensed
with. Hence the sharp contraction of 75
p.c. in net earnings over the two years
to the close of accounts in 1931. Pref. divs.
then took all but £3Oll of the profit, and
the ords., which averaged 5 p.c. for the
five years before that, were passed by. How-
ever, during the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, turnover held well (the
new branch in Maoriland helped), despite
u cut in selling prices; also, exes, were
pulled back. Thus the net result benefited
by £4113. The pref. divs. (now 7f p.c.)
called for £1969 less, owing to the statutory
cut; so the ords. got 14 p.c. In addition
to reserves shown in the table (they are
labelled nominal because they are subject
to £48,250 of patent rights), there are
specific reserves totalling £169,364, up
£13,137 during the twelvemonth, as against
£15,453 in the preceding term.
It was the success of “Minties” that
enabled the ords. to get a' long-delayed taste
in 1925. Before that the business was not
robust; hence the high rate paid for the
pref. capital, got in during 1920-23. Sted-
mans started manufacturing sweets in the
’fifties or thereabouts; Hendersons linked
up much later. There was a reconstruc-
tion in 1920, when paid capital became
£530,630. The combined capital of the
two separate concerns just before the war
was about one-tenth of that figure; in be-
tween the small business of Dillon, Bur-
roughs and Co. had been bought. Also,
Nestles became interested, thus ensuring a
wider distribution of Stedman-llenderson’s
products, and with the help of new, lines
the business began to make steady progress.
There is nothing- uneasy about the
finances:—
1928. 1930. 1931. 1932.
£ £ £ £
Capital . . . . 630,690 630,690 630,690 630,690
Mortgage .. . . 45,000 45,000 45,000 45,000
Overdraft .. .. 57,803 36,815 37,855 30,261
Sundry creditors.. 62,886 57,619 33,109 27,098
Freeholds.. .. 107,070 167,106 167,106 167,106
Plant, etc. . . 454,273 471,045 475.696 476,351
Stocks .. .. 114,280 140,308 106,975 112,310
Debtors . . . . 129,280 89,215 81,481 86,258
Investments & cash 72,299 31,134 62,543 59,276
Plant is the item which catches the eye.
It means brisk turnover if satisfactory pro-
fits are to be won, notwithstanding th‘
specific reserves already referred to. -
year £7504 was snipped off the ojvertiraix
and £6Oll off the amount coming to sunn •'
creditors. The more or less liquid _u P •
(£155,485, including stocks and invest-
ments) was £20.450 stronger than at
previous balance.
Only the prefs. (there are 50,000 hrsts
and a like number of seconds) are l* s •
The price rose sharply from 225. 3d. ■
265. 6d. following publication of ih.sc
accounts. At the higher figure the return
is 5.8 p.c. on a7l p.c. div. basis. Ibxciua-
ing specific reserves, the net tangible cover
is £l2 7s. Id., firsts; £6 17s. 7d., seconds.
Queensland Probate Insurance Co.
Or dinar y Life Department.
Excess
Sept., Income. Claims. Exes. Income. Deficit.
£ £ £ & ‘f.
Promoters' shares, preliminary exes., etc. 20,3 h.»
1923.. 7,319 Nil 12,888 31,9,1
Added establishment account, £10,149- • n’inl*
1921.. 8,134 600 8,530 -'l?.
Added establishment account, £9892.. 62,6J1
1925.. 15,036 19 13,924 1093 51.59 S
Added establishment account, £14,386..
1926.. 22,027 3909 15,211 2907 63,0 n
Added establishment account, £3452.. 66,529
1927.. 27,333 1394 19,807 6132 60,397
Added establishment account, £lBO..
Transfer from Accident Dept., £3OOO. . 57,57 <
1928.. 38,536 2451 28,872 7213 50,364
Added establishment account, £4997 . . 55,361
1929.. 43,153 3587 28,393 11,173 44,188
Forfeited shaves, £397 .. .. •• 43,791
1930.. 48,902 1897 33,172 10,833 32,058
Forfeited shares, etc., £lB9 .. 32,769
Written off assets, 122,428 .. -- 55,19.
1931.. 46,239 786,s 27,286 11,085 44,112
1932.. 40,275 7070 21,183 12,022 32,090
With the latest accounts the co. closes its
second quinquennial period. But until the
actuary completes liis overhaul, and the figures
are made available, the "Wild Cat” cannot
say precisely where either policy-holders or
shareholders stand. What can be said defi-
nitely is that, following a change in control
about eight; years ago, there has been an
encouraging reduction in the ratio of exes,
to net premium income. But whether the
excess of incomings over outgoings has yet
overtaken the growth of liabilities under
policies is another question.
Few life offices turn the corner inside
their first decade. This one, which special-
ises in probate insurance (a form of policy
writing in which a high percentage of
renewals —73 p.c. last year—and early matu-
rities can be expected) was hamstrung by
extravagance at the start. Of its £152,999
of paid capital £120,757 was represented by
intangibles at Sept. 30 —establishment.
£78,846; assets reduction suspense account.
£22,428; accident p. and 1. debit, £19,483.
It enjoys a measure of protection, inasmuch
as, excepting mutual offices, new life cos.
are not permitted to Register in Queensland ;
but competition is already very keen.
Last year there was a sharp contraction
in new business figures, due to the times.
But that should not do the co. any harm
in the long run; taking the business as a
whole, costs were lighter;—
1924. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Policies . . 325 1,473 1,147 728
Assuring . . £105,045 £578,646 £366,813 £194,100
First premiums 4,121 16,214 10,342 6,058
Renewal pre-
miums . . 3,560 27,354 29,856 29,018
Single premiums —■ 1,134 782
Exes, made off with 59 p.c. of the net pre-
miums as against 66, 76.1, 75 and 56.1 p.c.
back to 1928. As for new business, the
board figured the field cost at 107 p.c. of
the first premiums as against 140 p.c. for
the previous year. But on the generally-
accepted basis that new business costs 10
times as much as the care of the old, the
year’s first premiums were gathered at an
all-in cost of 217 p.c. as against 188 p.c.
in the previous term.
Balance-sheet figures now present a
healthier appearance; £22,428 was written
off the book value of assets (mainly agents'
balances) at the close of accounts in 1931 ;
1930. 1931. 1932.
Government securities.. £63,334 £68,465 £70,108
Mortgages, etc. . . 12,980 10,016 7,262
Loans on policies . . 2,103 3,171 3,370
Book debts .. . . 25,473 6,436 4,670
Cash, etc 5,448 1,178 3,813
Equipment, etc. . . 8,195 5,065 3,955
Freeholds . . . . 9,272 9,760 10,135
Total tangible assets . . £126,805 £104,091 £103,313
Sundry creditors . . 5,735 10,947 888
Net tangible assets ..£121,070 £93,144 £102,425
Life fund .. :. 46,077 57,162 69,184
Paid capital .. .. 153,123 152,999 152,999
Thus, while £12,022 was added to the life
fund last year, the growth in net tangibles
was £9281 —the difference is due to a loss
of £2740 in the Accident department. How-
ever, net tangibles were still £33,241 in
excess of the fund. In addition there was
£140,298 of uncalled capital, but that is a
dubious asset these days.
All the eo.’s fire and accident risks are
now reinsured.
(Continued on page 16.)


map-
m
mmm
mmm.
mwmi
V:
*K
WWW!??
w*
■
*l£J
4
q
fi
m
CORK AND PLAIN
- /n Aot places
Experienced travellers, Cork and Plain,
The heat affects them never.
For even in the hottest climes
They're fresh and cool as ever.
SrISjUM STRENGTH
WILLS
SVDNO
“strat
stay
Ltd
SfliS
i§si
kkS.(AuSTHAI.I*!i
Wherever you travel you
can always be sure of a
perfect smoke. These air-
tight tins keep Capstan
Cigarettes (both Cork-tipped
and Plain) and Capstan
Tobacco as fresh and
fragrant as the day they
left the factory .
lO to 1 it's a
CAPSTAN
4-752010*2


“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
November Issue Now on Sale
Is 4 p.c. Cheap Money?
Position of Banks.
Interest Rates and Share Prices.
Which Section Has Suffered
Most?
Trading Results Compared.
These and many other questions of
vital interest to investors will be
discussed in the November issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
*
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Comjson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Oollison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hvdraulie Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* # * *
LARGE CAPITAL AVAILABLE.—I have London
Capital available for Proved Gold Properties, also
Capital to develop. Inspection made in any part of
Commonwealth. Reply with some details to
“LONDON,” e/o Mercantile Exchange, 380 Collins-
street, Melbourne, Cl. — Advt.
* * * *
MINES AND FIELDS EXAMINED. Reports
furnished. Write to William Bradford, late special
Examiner of Mines for Victorian Government.
Address William Bradford, Ballarat East. —AifvT.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne. Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through 'he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business,
Your Altered
Financial Position
will probably necessitate your making a new will. If so, appoint
as your Executor and Trustee, Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited), a corporate body which has had forty-six years'
experience in the administration of Estates and which can never
die or leave the country. Write or call for free explanatory
Booklet.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
YOU’LL STOP, ANYWAY, BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
SILVER
EDGED
MARK REGIS TER ED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Insist on “RAY BEST OS”-—with the Silver
Edge . Your Garageman knows it
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
w
Representative:
■ ARNOLD , G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
Commonwealth Life (Amalgamated)
This co. took over the businesses of the
Commomvealth Life and Citizens and Graziers
at the end of Sept., 1926. The net book
value of the tangible assets then transferred
exceeded liabilities under policies by £28,835.
At Sept. 30, 1931, the actuary figured liabili-
ties under policies at £288,957 (Ordinary,
£146,772; Industrial, £142,215). The Assur-
ance fund stood at £179,442, to which a
further £48,885, represented by tangible
assets, was transferred, leaving the figure
still £60,660 short of the mark. To square
the accounts, the actuary recommends that
£60,660 of capital be called up. Delay in
this respect would cost the co. £16,577 for
five years, and £37,734 for ten years.
So, instead of being handed a div., those
on the register of the two holding cos. have
been asked for another Is. per share. If this
is all collected, it will provide £18,959. Imme-
diately prior to the call, issued but unpaid
capital of the two holding cos. combined
amounted to £122,423 —Commonwealth Life
£24,791, C. and G. £97,632. To wipe out
the £60,660 at once it would be necessary
to get in all unpaid capital in the Common-
wealth, and a like amount plus a further
£11,078 from the C. and G., leaving the last
named co. with £61,763 still at call.
Shareholders, of course, are most anxious
to know when the business is likely to turn
the corner. It is impossible to say defi-
nitely. Amongst other things, much depends
upon the extent to which exes, can be
further curtailed. Over the three years to
Sept. 30, 1931 (accounts to Sept. 30 last
have not yet been presented), definite pro-
gress had been made in this respect. In
the 1931 term there Avas a sharp drop of
£12,962 in net premiums (£109,892), due
partly to lapses. These usually mean a dead
loss to both the co. and policy-holders. To
combat this wastage new business was more
rigidly selected. Combining the figures of
both departments, exes, got off with 52.3 p.c.
of the net premiums as against 60.2, 66.2
and 76.2 p.c. in the three preceding years.
But lapses lifted the cost of new business
in the Ordinary department to 198 p.c. as
against 192 p.c. in 1930; that is on the
generally-accepted basis that new business
is 10 times more expensive than old. Appear-
ances are, therefore, that reneAvals in this
section are being handled at about the rate
allowed for. In the Industrial section the
actuary allowed approximately 19 p.c. for
exe.s. Actually they got off with 59.1 p.c.
of the net premiums as against 69.2 p.c. in
1930.
It was assumed that the Life fund would
earn 4 p.c. The net return on the mean
fund was 6.9 p>c. in 1931, compared with 7,
7.9 and 6.4 p.c. for the three preceding years.
Assets consist chiefly of Consols, so a further
drop in the interest return can be expected.
The position is not hopeless. A lot will
depend upon the support which both policy-
holders and shareholders continue to give to
the co., as well as further reductions in
exes. As the “Wild Cat” has frequently
pointed out, the most satisfactory solution
of the difficulties of these young offices lies
in wholesale amalgamation. But that means
dispensing with a lot of people’s services,
etc.; hence the disinclination of manage-
ments to move in the matter.
N.S.W. Associated Blue Metal
. Paid capital advanced from £112,711 in
1922, when the co. was formed to take over
Prospect, Minnamurra and Bombo quarries,
to its present figure (£339,407 in 64.407
10 p.c. cum. prefs. and 275,000 ords.) by
par issues. The expansion was hastened by
developments in road construction and con-
crete work, which resulted in a strong-
demand and good prices for metal. Then
slump and curtailment of public expenditure
changed the outlook, no divs. have been paid
for the last three years, and the co. finds
itself heavily overcapitalised.
In December last the board proposed to
slash 10s. off all shares, and to make the
pref. 5 p.c. non-cumulative, with the right
to advance beyond that, point with the ords.
This Avas rejected as an abrogation of pref.
rights for the benefit of the ords. Then a
committee of pref. shareholders and the
board drew up separate schemes, but have
failed to agree on all details. The directors
now propose to write off ss. per share of
the pref. and 10s. per share of the ord.
capital; to make the pref. div. 5 p.c. cumu-
lative, with the rights to. advance to 74 p.c.
Avith the ords., and to cancel arrears of divi-
dends, now ss. 6d. per pref. share. The
committee has agreed to forego these
arrears, and to reduce the div. to a mini-
mum 5 p.c. cumulatiA’e. It considers, how-
ever, that the face A’alue of the shares should
remain at £l, that they should advance with
the ords. beyond 5 p.c. without restriction,
and asks that the prefs. also be given prior-
ity as to capital, and the right to appoint
a director to the board to represent them.
The position in respect of the prefs.’ capi-
tal rights, if any, has never been clearly
stated. The prospectus said the shares were
first cum. prefs., with preference as to divi-
dend ; no reference was made as to priority
to capital. Neither is there any special
reference to this matter in the Articles of
Association. If the board’s proposals for
capital reduction and modification of divi-
dend rights are agreed to, the request for
priority as to capital is a reasonable one.
No harm would be done by granting the
prefs. representation on the board.
The future for both classes of scrip de-
pends upon the earning capacity of the
plant, and that is doubtful. On the market
3s. 6d. is asked for the prefs., and 2s. 6d.
for the ords.
Aladdin Tyres (Queensland), Ltd.
The patent is held by Tyres, Ltd., of
Auckland, which sold the Queensland rights
to Tyres (Queensland) Pty., Ltd., for 7500
fully-paid £1 shares. The latter co. is now
passing its rights on to Aladdin Tyres
(Queensland), Ltd., for £24,000 —£21,500
in cash, to be paid by instalments
over three years, and £2500 in 50,000
deferred shares of Is. each. Though
the abridged prospectus points out that
the Maoriland parent and its shareholders,
own the bulk of the shares in the Queens-
land vendor co., unless it takes up shares for
cash it will only have an indirect £2500
interest _ in this ultimate working co.; but
its holding will have certain privileges.
The patents are for rebuilding motor-
tyres. Not merely for retreading them, but
for stripping all the old rubber off the cases
and rebuilding as if they were new tyres.
This is to be done by the Hadley process,
and the job is finally vulcanised by the
Watson Tyre Mould, another of the patents.
The tread is claimed to then have a life
equal to that of the original, and the price
(retail) is put at £2 7s. 6d. per tyre. In
the co.’s second year it is estimated that
180,000 tyres will be rebuilt, this being based
on the fact that there are something like
80,000 motor vehicles registered in Queens-
land. Profits, after providing for income
tax, are put at £96,981 p.a., or almost equal
to the proposed capital of £102.500, of which
the public is being asked for £lOO,OOO in
£1 ords.
The vendor’s deferred shares do not rank
for divs. until the ords. have received 20s.
per share in profits. After that they are
to rank share for share in the surplus. In
other words, the shilling deferred and the
20-shilling ordinary will carry the same divi-
dend. In addition, they appear to have
equal voting power per share.
The directors may go to allotment when
35,000 shares have been subscribed. That
Avould little more than cover the ven-
dor’s cut and preliminary exes. Just what
initial capital outlay will be necessary is
not mentioned in the abridged prospectus.
There are possibilities for the invention if
it will do all that is claimed, but indepen-
dent opinion is necessary on that point. The
co. will also have competition, as the Advanx
people are already operating in Brisbane.
Invincible Colliery, which is Iloward-
Smith controlled, and works the Litligow
seam at Cullen Bullen on the western
N. S. Wales field, has presented another
dry sheet. For the 12 months to Sept. 30
a profit of £229 was claimed, but no provi-
sion had been made for depreciation. In
the previous year there was a loss of £1342.
For the five years t 0 the close of accounts
in 1930, profits averaged 9.4 p.c. on the
£104,000 of capital, and the average div. was
7.5 p.c. The co. lost its contract with the
N. 8. Wales Government Railways in 1929.
When the books last closed there was £2437
coming to creditors. Cash and -Consols
totalled £29,572; book debts, £11,149; stocks
and stores, £3056; mine and plant, £99,691.
* * * *
. Mount Coolon’s first crushing of 1600 tons
yielded bullion estimated to contain 1116 oz.
fine gold. The recovery would have been
better but for two days lost owing to a
mechanical defect. The clean-up for the
experimental run to the end of October was
17250 z. of bullion, containing 11350 z. gold
and 4740 z. silver. With gold worth £7 16s. •
an ounce in Australian notes, the 1600 tons
averaged over 108 s. It is not stated where
the ore came from. According to the pros-
pectus, there was a lot of stone on the 300 ft.
level averaging 555. per ton, with gold at
84s. an ounce. On the same basis the aver-
age value of the 106,000 tons which had
been proved over 12 months ago was 90s.
After spending several years in the
Georgetown district (N.Q.) and thereabouts,
Oliver Reece, a Californian mining engineer,
has obtained overseas backing for the pur-
pose of opening up the old Hodgkinson field,
first Avorkcd in 1876. Already 16 claims
have been pegged near Kingsborough, and
an extensive programme is said to have been
mapped. The Hodgkinson Avas a good gold
producer in the past, but sulphides and water
came in as the shafts went down, and for
many years now the field has been prac-
tically abandoned.
* * * *
“Old Warden”; The old quicksilver field
near Kilkivan, in the South Burnett district
(Q.), first worked over 65 years ago, was
taken in hand by the Queensland Quicksilver
Development Syndicate about 12 months
ago. Twenty-three bores 25ft. to 40ft. deep
have been put down, and IS shafts have been
sunk from 20ft. to 40ft. All show mineral,
estimated to be 99J p.c. pure, but small of
vein. Water is convenient and thqre is
plenty of timber. Also work has been re-
started on the old Commotion: a large dam
is being constructed, and retorts erected;
when the dam is ready a powerful sluicing
pliant will be installed. The price of mercury,
however, has slumped to a record low figure
following termination of the Spanish-Italian
cartel.
* * *
Several ore bodies are being opened up in
the Tuena district (N.S.W.). One at Aber-
crombie assays Bdwt. gold, 2 p.c. arsenic
and 3 p.c. copper; another, east of Tuena,
shows lOdwt. gold and 3 p.c. arsenic. This
class of stone can now be treated by flota-
tion, followed by roasting of concentrates
and cyaniding.
Asia Amalgamated has taken a six
months’ option over a gold show at Wyalong
(N.S.W.). The lode, tested to a depth of
50ft., shows ounce stuff over a w-idth of 2ft.
* =!= *
During the 10 months to the end of
October 89 mining cos. were registered in
Victoria, of w-hich 59 were to operate in
the State. The aggregate nominal capital
of the 89 was £2,184,600, of which
£1,731,550 Avas subscribed. For the whole
of 1931 the corresponding figures were
£780,745 and £674,820 respectively. At
Bendigo alone 40 separate cos. will shortly
be in operation.
sj: X
During the September quarter £248,837
worth of minerals was won in Tasmania.
Copper accounted for £109,675; cement,
£34,644; tin, £29,171; coal. £23,673; car-
bide, £14,856; silver, £10,991; gold, £9859.
The Electrolytic Zinc Co. recovered 13,232
tons of zinc, valued at £236,963, and 45:;.
tons of cadmium, worth £6405, from other
than Tasmanian sources.
Aberfoyle’s new mill at Storey’s Creek is
treating 200 tons Aveekly. About 150 tons
is mined, the balance being taken from the
dump, in which there is now 600 tons. Con-
centrate production is 51 tons of tin oxide
and 12cwt. of wolfram. The London price
of wolfram recently eased from 11s. 4d. to
10s. 9d. per unit, due to 1 cheap supplies from
China. Still, Aberfoyle is efficiently handled,
and looks like becoming profitable.
:Je ❖ sj:
Improved recoveries have followed the use
of a new flotation reagent at Wiluna, thanks
to the work of a young research metallur-
gist, Ley, formerly on the staff of the Elec-
trolytic Zinc Co. at Rosebery. Wiluna’s
working costs for September were 20s. Sd.
per ton of ore milled compared with 21s. 6d.
in July. When the two new Diesel engines
have been installed, increased tonnages can
be expected.
:\i i\i * $t
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) has closed
down its old crushing and roasting plant,
and the mine output, about 7000 tons a
month, is now being treated by the new
bromo-cyanide mill. Operations for October
show-ed a working loss of £390, making the
total working loss for the last five months
nearly £5OOO, with gold at the statutory
price. But over the same period the amount
receiA-ed on account of exchange exceeded
£50,000 in Australian currency.
Princess Royal and Kimberley Options are
reckoned the best of the small gold-mining ven-
tures in the West. The former has a few
thousand in the bank, a small mill and
cyanide plant, both paid for, and expanding
ore reserves and bottom Avorkihgs that in-
spire confidence. The appearance of Kim-
berley Options is not qn o so good, but the
intersection of the shoot at the next level
(200 ft.) should improve its prospects.
>:• * * *
Burbanks Mining and Investment Trust,
another reconstruction of Burbanks Birth-
day Gift. (W.A.). has secured prospecting
rights OA-er a gold-bearing area in the Trans-
vaal. where there is “evidence of a banket
reef.” The co.’s other assets include two
copper-mines and one asbestos show in
Westralia. It has plenty of assurance but
little cash.
* * *
Ernest Williams, a prominent member of
the Gold Bonus Delegation and mining engi-
neer of world-wide experience, is returning
from London. His association with West-
ralian gold-mining dates back over 38 years.
For a time he was partner in the firm of
BoAvick, Moreing and Co. Later he man-
aged Boulder Perseverance. He is noAV said
to. have become interested in the Paringa
and other mines at Kalgoorlie.
* * * :)i
Siamese Tin Syndicate has taken over
the Brilliant at Higginsville (W.A.), and
is erecting a treatment plant there. The co.
is also developing an extensive low-grade
tin property on the north-east coast of Tas.
Frank’s Reward claim (W.A.) has been
taken up by a newly-formed Perth syndicate.
A shaft is down 55ft., where the lode, 6ft.
wide, is said to be worth loz. per ton.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Position Twentieth Century Building
Societyt —32o3.
In July £lO,OOO of the capital was con-
verted in “B” deposits, reducing paid capi-
tal to £9208 at Sept. 30. The deposits,
which can be returned at any time, are to
carry interest, at the same rate as the div.
There was £2790 coming to other depositors.
£691 to the bank and £221 in a taxation
suspense account. Advances figured at
£23,854; sundry debtors, £l9; branch sus-
pense account, £ll. The year’s profit was
£B2B lighter at £527. Two points were
knocked off the div., reducing it to 3 p.c.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
•I.B.: On the basis of last year’s figures, about
Cl 4 per ton in Australian currency... .T.L.G.: A
lot more information would be required before reliable
advice could be given. Discuss the matter fully
with the secretary-; it is a mutual society F.C.:
A paid-up policy represents the reversionary equiva-
lent of the surrender value. The amount granted
varies in different offices. Where the number of
premiums is definitely fixed, some of the big offices
give a proportionate paid-up policy. Thus, if six
premiums out of 30 have been paid in respect of
an assurance for £lOOO, a paid-up policy for £2OO
or thereabouts would be issued G.J.J.: They are
not a very impressive lot. Electrolytic and Dunlop-
Perdriau offer prospects. Morris Iledstrom, C'astle-
maine-Perkins and City Electric are worth considera-
tion H.E.M.: The whole question is fully discussed
in the “‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” for August, 1932....
M.A.N.: The bonds are a long-term speculation. If
you cannot afford to lose, keep out A.R.W.: (1)
If not offset by other factors, such as bigger tonnages,
new developments, better assays, reduction of operat-
ing costs, etc., a drop in the buying rate Australia/
London would reduce the revenue of local base-
metal producers. The market for the scrip could be
expected to ease accordingly. (2) Nothing in sight
at the moment to suggest a sharp reduction in
exchange rates... .D.F.: The outlay- on development
and new plant may stand in the way of divs. for
a while. All the co.’s ore cannot be handled so
cheaply as that now being treated C.H.McG.:
(1) and (2) You can ask the chairman what price
was paid, but you have no legal right to demand
the information. (3) The share register may- be
inspected by any member gratis, and by any other
person on payment of Is. or such less sum as the co.
may prescribe... .Babinda: Although latest figures are
not available, the prefs. appear to be worth buying
or holding. They- represent only £30,000 in a
capital of £130,000, but there ia* £68,000 of other
liabilities ahead of them. The ords. are speculative,
evc-n under better conditions.


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
The Granites
Dear B„ —As all experienced mining men
expected The Granites boom has collapsed.
The claim that an Eldorado had been
located in an area that has been combed,
off and on, for thirty years by many ot
Australia’s most experienced prospectors
has proved an unblushing ramp. As usual,
most of the harm has been done by the
boosting of the field by an ignorant and
sensational press whose one object seems
to be to get the public’s pennies. The first
qualified men to report on the field pricked
the bubble.
Almost as reprehensible as the tactics ot
those engineering the boom has been the
indifference of the Federal Government,
which controls the territory in which The
Granites is situated. The dispatch at the
beginning of an official expert to tell the
truth about the field would have saved tax-
payers many thousands, while the rush of
deluded adventurers which set in as the
mirage developed would have been pre-
vented or checked until the definite stand-
ing of the field had been authoritatively
settled. Not only was this obvious duty
neglected, but no attempt was made to con-
trol the field beyond the belated appoint-
ment of a Warden. The authorities are
fortunate that the early collapse of the
boom will save them trouble and expense,
though assistance will have to be given to
some of the disillusioned to return to the
civilisation they should never have been
beguiled into leaving.—Yours, Old Warden.
Give Youth a Chance
Dear B., —A boy of fifteen who had been
hopelessly hanging on to school for a year
came rushing in. “Oh sir,” he gasped, “I’ve
got a job—with a grocer —-in a big shop—
permanent. Start to-morrow.” Then, before
I could congratulate him, he was off like a
flash to spread the glad news further round.
It is more than a mere step in life for a
boy to get a job nowadays. Later I talked
with a lad of eighteen, keen, vigorous and
enterprising, who has hiked all over the
State looking for work—fanning, laboring,
anything; but, save for odd jobs that lasted
no more than a week, he has never had a
real billet. “Ive had my name down at. the
Government Labor Bureau for months,” lie
explained ; “but I am never offered a job,
even on relief work. All that seem to get
any relief work are married men and a lot
of loafers who refuse to go anywhere out-
side Melbourne. I’ve offered to do anything,
go anywhere—but I’m too young to work,
I suppose,” he added bitterly. When the
recent attempt was made to reduce old-age
pensions, the howl from press and pulpit
almost split the welkin; youth’s bitter
struggle has been for two years treated with
an indifference barely short of criminal by
every Government in the Commonwealth.
But, then, Age has votes, and Youth has
none. If the kindhearted reverend gentle-
men, editors and others who bestirred them-
selves on behalf of old-age pensioners would
only work half as hard in helping our boys
to find employment, they would do far more
for the future of the nation.- —-Yours, Coun-
try Fed (Vic.).
Exchange and the Woolgrower
Dear Bulletin,—The crux of the posi-
I ion appears to be what is the value of the
£ Australian compared with the £ English.
With our depreciated currency, our liabili-
ties of over £1,000,000,000 for borrowed
capital, no assets to show for half that
amount, the other half represented by un-
productive Government buildings, obsolete
and. obsolescent public works and undertak-
ings, the principal section of our taxpayers
so impoverished that they can no longer
pay their taxes, what is the value of the £
Australian in terms of sterling? Undoubt-
edly it is far less than that denoted by the
artificial exchange rate of 125. Are we not
using the pegged exchange rate to conceal
the truth from ourselves just as the bor-
rowed millions concealed the true position
up to 1930? With the exchange rate allowed
t 0 run freely, the world would tell us in
24 hours what the £ Australian is really
worth.
Meanwhile the woolgrower and other pro-
ducers by reason of the untrue and_ arti-
ficially pegged exchange rate of 125 are
providing a bonus of many millions per
annum for the following interests: —
(а) Governments which would have to pay more
to remit interest overseas.
(б) Anglo-Australian financial interests who have
dividends and other funds to pay abroad.
(c) Importers who have to pay for foreign goods.
The argument is heard that if the exchange
rate went up it would cost our Govern-
ments so much more to remit their interest
and they would have to recover it by im-
posing further taxation, and that the im-
porter would have to charge more for his
goods. That is precisely what should be
done, and the cost would be borne by the
whole community. With the exchange run-
ning freely, the woolgrower would receive a
great deai more in Australian currency for
his wool, and he would contribute to the
increased costs referred to in so far as he
paid taxes or consumed imported goods
(which is not very much these days). —■
Yours etc., Bush Economist.
Monopolies
Dear Bulletin, —“Mudgee” doesn’t tell
the whole tale (B. 26/10/’32). Immedi-
ately on the formation of the combine
among the chief Australian drug-houses,
drugs increased in price, despite the fall of
the basic wage. For example, ether has been
sold for years at 3s. 3d. per lb. bottle; on
the formation of the combine it jumped to
4s. 9d., thus adding to the troubles of the
medical profession, the most downtrodden
of all trades and callings.—Yours, Country
Practitioner.
The Drift to the Cities
Dear Bulletin,—Dad has been largely
responsible for the drift of young farmers
to the cities. Their irascible, fault-finding
and generally parsimonious parent proving
unendurable, in disgust they have packed
their few belongings and consigned Dad and
the farm to Hell. The other type of Dad
who has much to answer for is the one
who, despite there being plenty of good agri-
cultural colleges available, has sent his sons
to be educated at urban public schools, where
they have learned to despise agricultural
pursuits. Beyond that, Dad often failed to
make the farm attractive enough for the
Daves. Often he lacked enterprise and
scorned the use of the scientific methods
propounded by his son; so the son, being
forced to retain his parent’s antiquated
ideas, and, perceiving the farm becoming a
greater problem every year, has decided that
his old schoolmate Jack Smith —the next-
door neighbor’s son who left home and now
owns a motor-cycle—is far better off than
himself; and he, too, has drifted citywards.
A better-tempered, more enterprising, more
prudently generous and understanding lot
of Dads would have done much to stop that
drift to the metropolitan areas which is
one of Australia’s greatest sorrows.—Yours
etc., CURRAGII.
The Farmer and His Farm
Dear Bulletin,- —-No farmer takes into
consideration the value of his property, once
it is paid for, in arriving at his earnings
for the year. If throughout life he had
to earn 6 p.c. per annum on the value of
his farm and possessions, in addition to
the equivalent of the basic wage for him-
self and the members of his family working
on the farm, he would get off in quick time
and hunt round for some other job. It is
the paying of the 6 p.c. or 8 p.c. in trying
to make; the farm his own that cripples so
many; until he has paid for his farm, his
net earnings, with that of the family thrown
in, often do not amount to £5O a year. That
is why a bad year so often “knocks” the
man on the land. That is why also the
farmer does actually go on producing at
prices which are quite impossible to the
man who has to really pay interest.—Yours
etc., Cockyson (Q.).
Wool Stabilisation Schemes
Dear Bulletin, —The object of the Roma
(Q.) wool committee is fixation of wool
prices. No good can be accomplished that
way. The position of the wool trade and
other primary industries is due to the large
number of unemployed throughout the world
—25.000.000 in Europe and America alone.
The best, types of cotton
are produced in Egypt;
they are largely used in
rubber tyre manufacture.
The Egyptian Govern-
ment tried to stem the
tide of low values, but
failed in the attempt,
leaving the nation heav-
ily in debt. So, too, with
coffee an d rubber.
Brazil’s attempt at .stab-
ilisation of coffee has led
to huge loss of capital
and the encouragement of
the growth of the plant
in other lands. It may
be said that wool is in
a particularly strong
position. This is exactly
what the founders of the
other schemes said. We
can’t afford to forget that
artificial textiles are keen
competitors with wool,
especially when values ;
are high. I do not wish
to convey that all is per-
fect. The cost of pro-
duction must be adjusted
in keeping with world
prices. The suggestion
that the extra costs can
be forced from the
world’s buyers is fantas-
tic, and I cannot under-
stand graziers supporting
this false doctrine. The
demand for wool at pre-
sent is only equal to the
supply ; when the world’s
unemployed are absorbed, j
the demand will be
greater and prices will
rise of their own accord.
Some wool-growers with
colossal egotism have
affirmed that the appoint- ,
meat of the Federal Wool '
Commission was the
cause of the recent rise.
This reminds me of
Rostand’s play in which
the rooster tells the hen
hits crowing causes the
sun to rise.—Yours etc.,
Kat.oola (Q.).
Still Paying for the War
Dear 8., The guns
have ceased these many
years, but certain phases
of the war spirit linger
like hideous scars on the
people’s psychology. The
war generation continued
to cry out for emotional
stimulants, and these
were found, as ever, .in
personalities, not in prin-
ciples. So we have had
since the war years an
outbreak of journalism
of the personal and scur-
rilous sort. Real pro-
blems of an impersonal
nature have been pushed
into the background in
favor of exposures and
scandals. Anything crude-
ly exciting found a ready
sale. Only the other day
a very large section of
the people of N.S.W.
went round the State
proclaiming “Dang Is
Right,” not because of
any particular principle
Lang upheld, but simply
because Lang was a
striking personalty iu
the political world.
As one result integrity has diminished in
recent years. Note, for example, the deter-
mined manner in which we have flirted with
repudiation and inflation; the widespread
dole frauds; the appalling theory held by
all classes that to rob the Government is
proper, if not praiseworthy; the cynical dis-
regard of obligations where obligations can
be disregarded without legal consequences.
Not one section of the community is free
from this malignant cancer. From those
poor desperate devils whom the depression
has impoverished much might be forgiven,
but the worst offenders are in higher places.
—Yours, T. Jasper.
Subsidies and Land Values
Dear B., —Put crudely, Ricardo’s Theory
of Rent is that any surplus over the cost
of production goes, not to the producer,
but to the owner of the land in the form of
rent. A high price for wheat means a cor-
respondingly high price for wheat lands;
and the owner-farmer generally takes advan-
tage of that fact to sell out and retire. The
new proprietor finds that his capital cost
lias been so great that he can at best just
make a living; and a sharp fall in prices
means bankruptcy. The property is then
sold at a fraction of what he paid for it,
on which basis it can be profitably worked.
This process is inevitable, not only in farm-
ing, but in all industries capitalised on a
basis of boom prices. Its chief drawback,
apart from painfulness, is that it is not
permanent, and that sooner or later the
whole cycle repeats itself.
Subsidies, bonuses, artificially fixed high
local prices, may help the producer for a
time at the expense of the rest of the com-
munity ; but ultimately their effect is to
raise the price of the land on which the
protected products are grown; and new-
comers, attracted by the high prices, must
pay much more for their land than its real
value. Any suggestion to remove the sub-
sidy on the grounds that the industry is
now firmly established is met with howls of
dismay. We see this in the case of the
sugar industry—compare the prices of sugar
lands now with those ruling before the
war. The whole community is taxed to an
outrageous extent (according to the authors
of “The Australian Tariff,” not less than
£4,000,000 a year) to make fortunes for
land-jobbers in Queensland.
The same thing must happen in the case
of any other primary industry to which a
subsidy is granted. The industry is not
encouraged, for people who enter it are no
better off, owing to the higher price they
must pay for their land; while those for
whose benefit the subsidy was granted make
use of it chiefly to sell out profitably.
Yours, H. L. Ward (S.A.).
Light Wool Cheques
Dear 8.,—1t is safe to say the wool
clip in Riverina this season is 20 p.c.
lighter than last, due to over-stocking, sparse
winter rainfall and rabbits. For the week
to October 7, ’32, average price in Sydney
was 9.02 d.; week to October 3, ’3l, 8.42 d.
As the advance is thus only 7 p.c., the
Riverina grower’s cheque will be appreciably
lighten- than in 1931-32. According to the
press the position is satisfactory and the
industry flourishing. This ballyhoo is not,
only stupid, it is mischievous. Politicians
are only too glad to grab at any straw as
a pretext to avoid cutting costs. —Vale bin.
. t
The Sydney Tramways
Dear Bulletin, —The Sydney tramway-
men’s union is perturbed about the current
year’s balance-sheet. Everything that the
Stevens Government has asked from the
Arbitration Court has been granted. Apart
from the Court, speeding up lias taken place,
which means that we do considerably more
work in 44 hours than we did in 48 hours.
Men arc wearing patched and dilapidated
uniforms in the name of economy. Many
employees get no railway benefits. A big
percentage of the others have given up rail-
way-pass privileges voluntarily. Wages are
lower than they were in 1920 and fares
are higher. Yet the estimated deficit this
year is 1155,000 (Arbitration Court
evidence) or £250,000 (press report). Surely
a commission of inquiry (with protection
for employees giving evidence) should be
instituted. There are plenty of subjects to
look at: Overlapping in administration ; lack
of co-ordination within the service; the
legal department, (trial of men charged with
offences) ; the espionage system employed
and its cost in relation to results ; waste of
public funds in useless buildings (the Leich-
hardt depbt will do for an illustration) ; the
waste of scattered offices with rental charges ;
the cost of the Railway and Tramway Insti-
tute, with its multiplicity of officers; why
the P.-type car was put on the road when
it was obsolete; the growth of the officer
caste while the wages staff was being re-
duced. Bavin was not game to open up
the administration to public gaze, neither
was Lang, and I venture the opinion that
Stevens’s courage has departed with the cut
at the basic-wage earner. —Yours, A Union
Officer.
SOMETHING IS BITING THEM.
“The Wool Committee has reported that costs are too high, that interest is too heavy, that
freight rates are excessive, that wool-selling houses charge too much and that the draft concession
of lib. per lewt. made to woolouvers should be abolished.”
“What’s the matter with ’em, do you think?”
“Well, whenever I see sheep all tucked-up like that, I say ‘Look for parasites.’”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hek Majesty’s (com. Sat.), “The Chocolate Soldier”
Royal “Autumn Crocus”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Lilac Time”
.King’s “Ghosts”
State Movies and Talkie«
At a Whiddon Matinee
Though doubtless there still are round
pegs in square holes, this lively Common-
wealth of ours with its adventurous national
temperament generally offers a man in the
course of a lifetime a fair variety of means
of discovering what he is best fitted for.
Take Mr. Whiddon. His good stage presence
and felicity of diction were wasted on a Com-
missioner of Taxes, and had but limited
scope in the functions of a choirmaster. And
then, after the curtain had been rung down
“Good morning, everybody.”
ou Ms career of tax-collecting, came a turn
of the N. S. Wales kaleidoscope; the grub
emerged from its chrysalis, and Mr. Whiddon
became the leading man in a weekly theatri-
cal performance that attracts the most
attentive audiences Sydney has ever seen.
His fame in this capacity has become
established. Whereas, in the past, his name
was associated with an aspect of life tax-
payers tried hard to forget, lest they suffer
the dreary terrors of insomnia, it is now a
synonym for good fortune and sprightly
gaiety. To discover and analyse the secret
of his charm, Frith and the Showman
attended on a recent morning at Her
Majesty’s Theatre. The house was full of
solemn-looking people. No chatter, badin-
age or frivolity. A few read newspapers.
The rest gazed broodingly at the curtain.
After some minutes a man came out with
a microphone and erected it just over the
footlights. Simultaneously there came from
backstage the long sighing sound that by
theatrical convention indicates heavy rain,
but which really is more like the sough of
a lazy tide upon a shingle beach. Then
the curtain rose six inches, disclosing at
least 20 pairs of nicely-polished shoes. Then
it went right up, revealing an impressive
tableau of lottery officials, reporters, the
Auditor-General (attended), and an inspector
of police. In the background a huge contrap-
tion, all polished walnut, a sort of cross
between a fruit machine and a cash register.
Arrayed near it, glittering implements.
Strolling carelessly on to this carefully-set
scene came an elderly gentleman, beautifully
arrayed. “Good morning, everybody,” he
chirruped in a light tenor. “I suppose [this
with gentle contempt] not one of you knows
the number of this lottery. It is the one
hundred and sixty-first? No it isn’t. It’s
the eighty-ninth.” Having thus introduced
himself the great Whiddon, for it was he
and none else, made light observations on
the lack of reason displayed by people who
favor five-figure numbers; imitated the dis-
gust of an old lady who was issued with
ticket 960; threw a handful of bouquets at
the absolute rectitude of the drawing
methods, and with an air of indifferent de-
tachment urged the public to surge on to
the stage—“in battalions, if you like”—to
scrutinise. He theu introduced “Mr. Schu-
bert, president of the Commercial Travel-
lers’ Association,” who looked a bit ner-
vous, which must, have been a new experience
for anyone in his line of business. The bag-
“Withdrawing it with the little steady
wriggle.”
men’s president was handed a long nickelled
rod with one end like a cleek and the other
like a corkscrew and instructed that when he
thrust this into the barrel it would pick
up one marble. The barrel was slowly
turned round, first this way, then that. Then
a trapdoor in the side of it was opened, and
the iG.T.A. man, more nervous than ever,
dipped his cleek in. withdrawing it with the
little steady wriggle that is the paradox of
the dentist's craft. Approached then the
great Whiddon, extending what looked like
a silver soup-spoon with a handle suited
to supper with the Devil. Into this there
was dropped from the end of the cleek thing
something invisible—something signifying
£5OOO.
Messrs. Whiddon and Schubert, keep-
ing their unoccupied hands studiously by
the seams of their pants, preserved their
stance like graven images while a large
gloomy gentleman in solemn blaek, with his
hands well down, too, peered at the little
something in the soup-spoon. He recited a
number. He recited it twice, and a man
wrote it on a blackboard opposite the sym-
bol Ist. Mr. Schubert again officiated. Mr.
Whiddon did the soup-spoon act, and the
gloomy gentleman peered and recited a
number. The space opposite “2nd” on the
blackboard was filled. And so it went on.
The audience preserved the respectful silence
of pallbearers at a funeral.
A simple but impressive ritual.. But,
granting the charm of Mr. Whiddon’s his-
trionic powers, a bit monotonous, like all
rituals. Not the sort of thing the average
theatregoer would care to see twice.
Sir Roger Ackroyd was killed with a
paper-knife one evening in his country home,
which was filled at the time with relatives,
friends and servants. Mrs. Ackroyd, the
dead man’s sister, benefited under his will.
Flora, his charming niece, also- a beneficiary,
needed money badly and had quarrelled with
Sir Roger. Parker, the butler, was a sliifty-
eyed eavesdropper. Ralph Paton, the
corpse’s stepson, though engaged to Flora,
was carrying on with the parlormaid,
Bourne, whose movements about the house
were mysterious. Abrupt-spoken Major
Blunt was given to nocturnal prowling, and
nervous Geoffrey Raymond, Sir Roger’s sec-
retary, had as good opportunities as any
to commit the crime. The only member
of the household above suspicion is upright
Dr. Sheppard, Sir Roger’s oldest friend.
This is the stage set for “Alibi,” a play
adapted from Agatha Christie’s novel by
Michael Morton, and performed by the Pick-
wick Theatre Group at Sydney Savoy last
week. Phillip Lewis was M. Poirot, who
solves the mystery. A. J. Nixon dragged
red herrings across the trail of the guilty
Dr. Sheppard (however did you guess it?),
Wilfred Blacket was a police-inspector (a
stupid fellow, of course). No rah Cazabon
was convincing as Flora; and Jean Black,
as Caryl Sheppard, the doctor’s sister,
Muriel Coberoft, as the parlormaid, and
Meg Service, as the dignified Mrs. Ackroyd,
were avoll cast. Dorothy Mannix made a
brief but lively appearance as a French
girl and scored the few laughs of the even-
ing.
“MRS. MOONLIGHT” AT SYDNEY SAVOY.
(Top to bottom, left to right ): Jane Conelly as Jane Moonlight;
B. Bennett-Smith as Willie; Alfred Race as Percy; Doris
Fitton as the second Mrs. Moonlight; Marie Rosenfeld as
the first Mrs. Moonlight; Richard Parry as Mr. Moonlight.
The Montgomery Stuart Players grappled
with “The Father,” Strindberg’s powerful
but depressing drama, at St. James’s Hall,
Sydney, last Thursday. The central char-
acter is a cavalry officer on the verge of
insanity, who divides his time between exam-
ining meteoric stones for signs of organic
life and warring with his wife Laura, who
is as black as Strindberg could paint her.
Resentful of his learning, and jealous of
his affection for their daughter, Laura em-
ploys one mean trick after another to dis-
turb the wretched fellow. Finally she
insinuates that he is not the girl’s rather,
and the captain beats her. Laura calls in a
doctor and demands a certificate of insanity.
The doctor, who formerly posed as Adolph’s
confidential friend, agrees, but before they
get the captain into a padded cell he dies.
The play is largely autobiographical, and in
this centres its vitality, but it is the vitality
of dementia. Montgomery Stuart as Adolph
could have put more light and shade into
liis acting. Myra. Leard played the part of
Laura with such sombreness and intensity
that the males in the audience thanked
their lucky stars they were not in Adolph’s
shoes. Others in the cast were Walter
Taylor, Beulah Mayliew, Frederick Harvey,
Dick Thornton and Eileen Robinson.
# ¥ *
The New Sydney Rep. Soc. had a full
house for the presentation of Keith Cribb’s
three-act play “The Kingdom of Pretence,”
in which the author, who was also the pro-
ducer. took the principal r6le. The piece
unfolds the story of a man’s love for his
adopted daughter, and of the fiendish be-
haviour of his missus. The characters are
given sub-titles indicating the moral qualities
they represent. The ending is happy. The
bright acting of Gwen Griffiths as the
adopted, daughter and the competent sup-
port given by Daphnie Winslow, Alice
Bolger, Henry Farrell and Thomas Lowe
made the fantasy interesting.
Theo Shall (the man who was kissed by
Greta Garbo) is off the menu at Melbourne
King’s. Ibsen’s “Ghosts,” raised by Sybil
Thorndike, will haunt that playhouse from
Saturday until exorcised by the general
public.
“Dropped from the end of the cleek.”
Shadow Shows.
“The Impassive Footman,” at the State, is
the first all-English film that Sydney lias
seen which is equal in nil respects, and
superior in more than one, to anything of its
kind achieved by Hollywood. Betty Stock-
field is the neglected wife of a detestable
valetudinarian. She turns to Owen Nares
for solace, but their friendship remains inno-
cent. The husband suspects the worst just
before he is to undergo an operation which
only Nares (a specialist in this branch of
surgery) can perform. The footman, superbly
played by George Curzon, baulks the hus-
band of the dastardly revenge which he had
planned. All the defects that one has been
accustomed to look for in English talkies
are absent from this one; it moves fast, the
cutting is masterly, and there is hardly a dull
line or a superfluous bit of business. Also,
it has none of the defects of most American
films which deal with the lives of the rich.
The servants are servants and not knock-
about comedians, the interiors have been
arranged so skilfully that their luxury never
diverts the eye from the performers, and
the voices are delightful. Betty Stockfield
is bewitching in appearance and ways as
usual, and Allan
Jeaves is effective as
the husband, but the
mysterious footman
attracts most of the
attention. His final
exit is a finished
example of dramatic
restraint.
“R oar of the
Dragon,” which fol-
lows* is a deafening
melodrama. The
people in the be-
leaguered Man-
churian inn are
Americans where
they are not natives
—Richard Dix, a
gallant sailorman,
Eddie Everett Hor-
ton and his girl
Arline Judge, Zazu
Pitts and Ghili
Andre, whom the
bandit (C. Henry
Gordon) loves, but
who loves Dix. Some
of the most likeable
characters bite the
dust, but otherwise
all is according to
formula. The photo-
graphy is good and
the big crowds have
be e n brilliantly
handled.
* # #
“Devil and . the
Deep,” at the Prince
Edward, would be
as commonplace as
its title, but for the
English star Charles
Laughton. He has
put on weight since
the writer saw him
in London some years ago, but he is one
of those whom avoirdupois cannot rob of
dignity and the power to terrify. What
a Count Foseo he would make! In
this play he is Tallulah Bankhead’s
jealous husband, who can smile and
smile in public and be a villain as cold and
cruel as the grave at home. He sinks the
submarine of which he is commander to
avenge himself on Tallulah and her lover
Gary Cooper (one of his subordinates), who
are on board. The underwater shots would
be exciting if they hadn’t been seen in so
many other sea-pictures. Miss Bankhead
“Peered at the little something.”
has nothing much to do except droop about
and look lugubrious, and Gary Cooper’s
job consists chiefly in saluting acquiescently,
with _ lips set in disapproval, when his
superior delivers strange orders and cryptic
insults. The right people escape, and the
demented Laughton meets an awful end. The
picture should have ended t> u L o*
course, being American, it doesn't. ±ne
closing sequences are ridiculous.
¥ * V
Good march music saves “Good-night,
Vienna,” at Sydney Mayfair, from being
completely ordinary. Otherwise the story,
lyrics and melody arc of the tritest. Jack
Buchanan—if he can sing, which is not
evident—is given nothing worthy of _Jn in-
and Anna Neagle, a newcomer to the talking
film, though appealingly pretty in hrst
sequencies, flattens her top notes. The old,
old story tells how Max, an officer in the
Austrian Army, loves Viki, who works in a
flower shop and has a voice. The
war sweeps Max out of Yiki’s life, and its
end finds Viki the premier prima donna or
Europe and Max a boot salesman. Viki
scorns Max, but Max sings to her over
the ’phone a song about clover and 10-yer.
She is so impressed that she decides
to accept his penniless hand. Her song in
the flower shop and his ’phoned appeal are
the show’s best items.
Maisie Gay is a comic servant in “The
Old Man,” at Sydney Mayfair. The sup-
port, headed by Anne Gray and Lester
Matthews, is evenly excellent. The story
is one of blackmail, vengeance, mystery and
threats of murder, with a dash of irregular
love and an Australian as the villain.
* ¥ X
Can Love and Business go together?
“After Office Hours,” at Sydney Haymarket,
supplies the answer. Garry Marsh has
tried out his theories on all his typistes
with indifferent success until along comes
one who is anxious to have a good time at
liis expense, regardless of her nice boy down-
stairs. Frank Lawton is excellent as the
boy friend who forms the worst view of
things till a hard-boiled key-thumper takes
a hand and —well, it all comes right in the
end. There is tragedy in the love affairs
of some of the other girls, but the story has
humor and it never lapses into mawkiness.
Heather Angel and Frank Lawton are
attractive lovers in the parts they had in
the stage-play, “London Wall.” Many
details in the lives of those London business
people are given, and all of them—the shots
of tubes, ’buses and scurrying crowds —add
to the effect.
* * *
An examination of “His Royal Highness,”
at the Regent, confirms the opinion of The
Bulletin’s Melbourne critic. George Wal-
lace is an entertaining little clown, but he
has been allowed too much latitude as re-
gards slapstick. Furthermore, his support
is poor, and the settings are artificial. The
film begins brightly, but gets more discon-
nected and banal as it goes on. “Country
Fair,” on the same programme, is an Ameri-
can racing yarn. The poor but honest
trainer is played by Hobart Bosworth. and
his daughter, who know 7 s as much about
horses as he does, is Marion Shilling. Wm.
Collier, jun., is the ex-jockey in love with
Marion, and Ralph Ince is the crook. Chiefly
owing to the machinations of Ince, Little
Alice, the speedy mare, her owner and
friends have some anxious moments before
the big race is won.
The Palette.
One of the best pictures in the show of
the late John Ford Paterson at the Gros-
venor Galleries, Melbourne —a study of
quiet evening at Bacchus Marsh —is 50
years old, but looks as fresh as the day it
was painted. Paterson exercised his talents
in a variety of styles. The solidest, remi-
niscent of Constable, have their feet firmly
on the earth. Others are ethereal to the
point of dream-like fantasy. “Romance in
Blue and Silver,” a large painting of swans,
cows and sunset at Lakes Entrance, is in-
debted to Nature for no more than a sug-
gestion, an effect of light which could not
have lasted for more than five minutes hav-
ing taken the artist three years to expand
into a picture.
Beatrice Chettle, the Anglo-Australian
water-colorist, has a successful if unambi-
tious show at the Society of Arts gallery
in Adelaide.. Her pictures of local scenery
are reinforced this time by gleanings from
Tasmania and England (Shropshire and
Cornwall mainly). Unusually sound
draughtsmanship and close observation are
still her strong points, and the modestly-
priced pictures have found ready sale.
Herbert Rose, the Victorian artist, has
been ransacking Europe for popular beauty
spots and selecting fine weather for his
excursions. The results have been hanging
at the Sedon Galleries, Melbourne, and leave
nothing to the imagination. Each picture
is an encyclopaedia on its subject. Another
artist who has been trying to beat that
recent invention the photograph in natural
colors at its own game is Dora Wilson, at
the Fine Arts. Miss Wilson’s model is
Melbourne, but the result is much the same.
Marguerite C. Mahood’s ceramic figures
at Everyman’s Library are a development
of decorative art new to Melbourne. Miss
Mahood does her own firing, and beauti-
ful color combinations make her pottery en-
chanting.
Poverty Point
“Tidapa”: Claimed as the smallest
theatre in the Southern Hemisphere is the
Greenwood Tree at Cremorne, Sydney. This
ex-garage has comfortable seating accommo-
dation for fifty and its miniature stage is
well equipped. The founder is E. P. Perd-
riau, late of the Allan Wilkie Co'. It is
intended to perform Shakspearean plays
there, as well as modern dramas.
“C. 8.”: Apropos the revival of “Pina-
fore” at Melb. Royal, the oldest living
Dick Deadeye is A. 11. Capper, of East
Melbourne. He played with Mrs. G. B. W.
Lewis in the G. and S. repertoire over half
a century ago.
“Cauboy”: Datas, the memory man who
was in Australia on the vaudeville circuit,
has sold his brain twice in his lifetime.
Twenty-eight years ago some American
doctors paid him £lO,OOO for his head, but
they all died, so the mortgage lapsed, so
to speak. He has lately resold his top-
piece to King’s College Hospital, London,
for £lOOO down, £9O a quarter for life and
a family grave for himself, his wife, son
and daughter.


“As I was just saying..
f/i?
£2
I’ve proved with case after ease
/^-7n
fefl
* $
' ' t
that it pays to have things in ...
Fine
D Scotch wkfj
black
white
IJIUCHANWO
ttHCOWj
® v A|jpo.i»
'’//era to H
HR H fhe PRlNCtol.'H^
„ «*OOuCC C* SCOTV AN °
scotch whisk’
ChQi
'black & whitP:
- J ‘CE OLD SCOTCH.' „
s£^,f
SKV O» St ' Ll, -
AND
WHITE
Guaranteed
Pure Scotch
Whisky , and
bottled only
in Bond under
Government
supervision


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL:
CAPITAL PAID UP
RESERVE FUND -
RESERVE CAPITAL ------
£12,000,000.
- . £4,739,012 10
. - 4,300,000 0
- - 4,739,012 10
0
0
0
£13,778,025 0 0
DircctoTS *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, 13.0.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
-world. ,
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . . . .
Total Reserves approximately . .
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately
£241,341
£3,500,000
£900,000
£500,000
Area Planted 132,126 Acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong, San Francisco, Vancouver and rans.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Delia” : By cable from Maoriland comes
an account of how a dog chased an Bft.
shark into shallow water and landed it after
a fight in which he was bitten. Usually
meetings between the two animals end the
other way. A dog which goes swimming in
sliarky waters is taking risks that no sen-
sible bookmaker would countenance. The
shark, like the crocodile, is extremely partial
to dog, and sometimes this taste carries him
to extremes that would astonish the library
naturalist. At Buna Bay, a Government
station right on the beach in north-eastern
Papua, it used to be impossible to keep a
dog because of sharks. Miners down from
the Yodda goldfield, of which Buna was the
port of- entry, or on their way back from
a Samarai holiday, would invariably have
c>ne dog and sometimes several. They used
to put up at the traders’ stores and tie the
dogs up outside to prevent them going in for
a swim. Nevertheless the dogs began to dis-
appear, their heads being usually the only
part left of them. After much investigation
the problem solved itself one night. Someone
heard a frenzied flopping about on the sand
outside. He found a 10ft. shark had swallowed
his dog holus bolus and, since it had failed
to bite off the head, was securely held by
the chain. It was 50 yards to the sea, and
search showed that the shark, like his pre-
decessors, had crawled out. of the water
through the dew-laden grass and seized his
prey. After that no more dogs were lost.
We shut them up in kennels and hoisted
them every night to the top of the cocoanut
palms. Up to the time I left no tree-climbing
sharks had been evolved.
He * * IS
“Beta”: A Muscovy duck visited my
front garden. “Hey,” yelled a small girl
through a panel in the fence; “that’s
me mother’s duck.” “ ’Tain’t,” jeered a lad
from the side gate. “We lorst ’im yester-
day. Hey, Mum!” “Fight it out among
yourselves,” I suggested; and I gave my
visitor a vigorous shoo. He took the fence
safely, but committed a bad tactical error
when he landed at the feet of a fat lady
arriving at the double in response to her
son’s hail. The lady weighs eighteen stone,
and as she is the acknowledged champion at
any weight round here I considered the
question of ownership settled. Escorted by
four dogs she crossed the street in triumph,
to be halted by the lady from the corner
house. “Oh thank yer, Mrs. Brown, I’d
never ’a’ caught ’im on me own.” Amazed,
I watched the duck change hands. Tactics
beat the fat lady. She knew that the other
lady didn’t keep ducks, either, but polite-
ness had found a hitherto undisclosed weak
spot. It left her speechless, Muscovy-less,
beaten.
“Frigid”: Joe went to the quack and
requested treatment for his ankle. After an
overhaul, the medico asked, “How long
have you been going about like this?”
“About two weeks,” said Joe. “Why, man,
your ankle is broken! How you managed
to get around is a marvel. Why didn’t you
go to bed and send for me?” “Well, it’s like
this,” said Joe. “Every time I say some-
thing’s crook with me tlie wife says I’ll have
to knock off smoking.”
s;< ❖ Jk ❖
“Waukaroo”: Is this anything like a
record? In our family castle we lately had
an invasion of rats, which swam the moat
and sealed the portcullis and began to make
a mess of the family plate. So the village
armorer was visited, and he sold us a couple
of rat-traps—the ordinary tuppenny things
with a bit of board for a base and a spring
designed to make a nice collar for any
rodent visitor. Maybe we fastened the bits
of bacon down too firmly; anyway, when
we inspected the premises next morning
there were three rats in one trap and two
WEIGHT TEST.
BOSS: “No, Jacky. Two pounds of iron weigh only the same as two pounds of
feathers!”
JACKY: “Ah, that-one good joke. You drop ’m on your plurry pfoot, you soon find
out.”
in the other. Evidently in each case it had
taken a combined pull to set the works
going; and they none of them had time to
blame the other.
*■ * * *
“Avon”: “Chevroford’s” championship of
the poplar (B. 2/li/’32) as an adjunct to
the urban land-
scape will re-
ceive sup-
port from
M a o r ilanders.
The indigenous
trees of the
Shivery Isles
lack variety,
and the best of
them, such as
the kauri and
tot a r a, are
hard t 0 culti-
vate. The pion-
eers, especially
on the wind-
swept plains of
the South
Island, planted
such vast quan-
tities of Eng-
lish trees that
the oak. elm,
ash, pine (in-
signis), willow
and poplar are
much more
familiar to the
people than the
native trees.
One of the
glories of that
p i e t u resque
little creek the
Avon, which
winds through
the heart of
Christchurch, is
a long, sinuous
row of poplars
on the northern
bank. Of 70
years’ growth,
these trees are
as even in
height as pins
in a card, and
in a utum n.
dressed in
bright gold,
they are a sight
toi gladden an
artist’s eye.
Rows of these
trees, miles
long, have been
planted on Can-
terbury plains as windbreaks, and there is at
least one road in the province boasting a mile-
long avenue of them. They are, however,
not at all suitable for city streets or small
gardens of any sort, and the Maoriland
pioneers, whose tree-lore was profound,
never planted the species where it wasn t
likely always, to have plenty of space
around it.
“Solander” One of the curio-
sities of nature is the un-
dying antagonism between
cat and dog. They are the
only animals of different species
who habitually wage war on
each other for the love of it;
naturalists have been _ unable
to discover any other instance
among animals or birds. One
animal may chase away another
to get food for itself, as a
tiger will terrorise a jackal,
while animals of different
species will, slay each other for
food, but real scraps between
strangers seem to be barred. On
the other hand,, beasts and birds
of the same sort will fight at
the drop of a hat and even kill.
=l= * '
“Tamata”: That Sepik lady
(B. 9/11/’32) was not the
only one of her kind who has
walked in dread of magical
assaults on her affections. In
northern Papua the placing of
leaf bundles, etc., across the
path the desired one had to
tread was also utilised by the
desirous, but since these had
to be imbued with occult power
by a professional sorcerer the
recipe came expensive. A
cheaper and just as effective
method was to somehow induce
the damsel to smell a piece of
bark from the . cinnamon tree,
which has a sweet, heavy scent.
This took a j»it of doing, but
with persistence could be
achieved. The quaint thing
about it is, that it always worked. I was
assured that, once the most unwilling lady
was. entrapped, she philosophically accepted
the inevitable, such were the trammels of
local convention.
“Bingera”: At Murranji waterhole, 60
miles west of Newcastle Waters, there is a
very old tree on which have been carved
THE MORALIST.
MUG: “But is he free from vice?”
OWNER: “Free from vice? I’ll tell you what that ’orse thinks of
vice A bloke pinched T im, and. woddoes ’e do? Bolts straight
for the police station and shoots the bloke off into the
sergeant’s arms.”
words that the locals interpret as “Reader,
please dig.” A careful examination of the
decaying letters confirms the first word as
“Reader,” but the other letters look more
like “Plid Gin,” then down below some
more letters like “Ulike.” This waterhole
broke what was in the old days a dry stage
of over 100 miles, but in the last 10 year's
the Federal Government has sunk and
equipped bores, so there is now ample water
for travellers and travelling stock between
Victoria River and Newcastle Waters. Years
ago, I suppose, somebody did dig, but it
isn’t on record that anything was found.
Can any North Australian cast any light on
the history of the inscription?
* * * *
“Kopina Kava”: The folk of the Suki
tribe (of the Upper Fly River. Papua)
have developed an interesting technique in
the matter of preserving heads —human
heads. The hair is first removed, then the
skin, the latter by making a cut from the
nape of the neck to the centre of the scalp.
After careful scraping and the removal of
adhering flesh, the skin is placed in the sun
to dty. The. skull is treated in a like
manner. Skin and skull are left in the sun
for one day only, just sufficient to dry both,
and at night are placed on a platform to
smoke. On the following morning the skull
cavities are filled with mud, then the skin is
drawn back over the skull, with a filling of
dried grass stuffed hard between it and the
skull to tauten the skin and prevent decom-
position. The skin is then sewn up by the
original cut at the back of the head. Ears
and nose are kept in form; and artistry is
employed to present the head as the man
appeared in life. After a week of smoking
it. is ready to be decorated and hung
up in the house of the owner. A head so pre-
pared will remain in good condition for two
or three years. Then it will go to a burial
place in the forest.
:'J ❖ *
“Awani” : It’s hard to keep a good man
down. Jimmy Doyle, having fallen on
lean times, pitched his tent on the bank
of the Gwydir River at Yagobie (N.S.W.)
some twelve months ago. Instead of apply-
ing for food relief, he bethought himself
of his trade as a baker, built himself an
oven from mud and poles, made baking- and
cake-tins from discarded kerosene-tins and
sardine containers, and turned out bread and
cakes as good as you'd get anywhere. He
has now worked up quite a good business.
THE VALKYRS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In days of old the Valkyrs, fast riding o’er
the sky,
Bore souls of fallen heroes to Odin’s feast
on high;
But now the grey Cloud Maidens, in times
of drought and dearth,
Spread banquets for the heroes who battle
with the earth.
Our fathers, -when they saw the clouds drive
on before the blast,
Knew well some doughty warrior had met
his match at last;
But now to us their children, when wearied
with the strife.
The thunder of the Battle Maids foretells
not death but life.
The armor of the Valkyrs was cloudy grey
and wan,
Of dim unearthly lustre, and dread to look
upon.
Now, when they draw their lightning swords
that split the sky in twain,
With hope, not fear, we listen for the rattle
of the rain.
All hail, then, Odin’s Choosers! from
Earth’s nativity
In triumph, song and saga men sought to
honor ye.
In peace, not war, now come, and as you
sweep the sky along.
We’ll greet your march with gladness, your
banners with a song.
QUEENSLAND.
HERESONE.


PROGRESS
If you contemplate the future, as we all can and do, you must
gather some conception of the enormous progress that civilisation will
inevitably make within the probable period of your life.
You must realise, too, that such progress will be the sum total of
all individual endeavors. Thus you will realise, no doubt have already
accepted, your own part in this great forward movement which is
progress. If you are to play your part valuably, you must not be a
drag upon any other section of the community, but in one respect at
least you can provide against this.
The Savings Account will help you build your career, help you
to independence, and therefore to a useful place as a citizen. Very
little money is required to start an account, which will cost you only
the decision to open it, and to faithfully maintain »t, for your own
and, therefore, for the general national welfare.
Cbmmomvcain) Savinas JBank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
BRITAIN—MaKe Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities arc all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman"—BJ hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
ŵ
t
** ' mb
■4HT h m
i ■•;
%
“Bma”: Touching that attempt in West-
ralia to destroy the flocks of emus which
have been invading wheat farms, there
should be other means than destruction of
dealing with one of the world’s unique birds
—the emu is found nowhere but in Aus-
tralia. The concentration in Westralia was
THE VARIABLE PERCH.
TADDY: “Dad, a rod’s equal to a perch, isn’t it?”
DAD (an unsuccessful angler) : “I’ve known times, my boy, when a perch was more
than equal to a riverful of rods.”
due to foodless conditions outback driving the
birds into the cultivated area; in short, the
situation was entirely a temporary one.
Though the emu. a prolific breeder, increases
rapidly if left alone, the extension of settle-
ment will inevitably bring about his extinc-
tion in time. The less need in that case to
hasten the day.
“Whizz”: One result of that emu affair
has been an argument as to the speed
attained by these birds. Observers rated it
as high' as 50 m.p.h. when escaping from the
bursts of fire, but this is nonsense. With
a good deal of experience, the writer never
met an emu that could outrun a good kan-
garoo dog, even with a decent start. .Not
every dog takes to emu-catching. Rover is
apt to grab the big bunch of feathers adorn-
ing the fowl’s stern and come a terrible toss
as a result. Many a dog has sworn off emus
after such an experience. Those who per-
severe soon learn *to make the thigh their
objective, with successful results.
“Wandi”: Being flightless, emus can be
driven like brumbies. . I saw that worked
in the north-western corner of N.S.W.,
where the birds were fouling tanks. They
were driven miles away by horsemen to a
creek where there was plenty of water, and
they, never went back.
“Dera” : Another case of male impersona-
tion was reported in Sydney last week.
A post-mortem on Skipper, a shark which
had lived in captivity at Taronga Park
for 22 months, disclosed the fact that “lie”
was *a female. Among birds, particularly
cockatoos, deceptions of this kind are not
uncommon, and are usually exploded when
the impersonator beams to lay eggs. In
justice to the late Skipper it must be said
that she never betrayed herself by a faux
pas of the kind.
“Mako”: Maoriland acclimatisation soci-
eties decided recently in conference to
again search for the huia, the royal bird
of the Maoris, which many authorities
believe is extinct. From time to time re-
ports filter through that huias have been
seen by deer-stalkers and other hunters, the
bird being easily recognised by the white-
tipped tail feathers so esteemed by the
Maoris as a mark of rank, and by the fact
that the female has a long curved beak,
designed for inserting in holes and crevices.
Information, kept secret to circumvent
collectors, has been given various bird-
lovers’ societies, and expeditions will en-
deavor to capture huias alive with a view
to releasing them on bird sanctuaries.
* * * *
“F.”: Long before Queensland brewers
discovered that pink tamarind bark is a fine
flavor for cordials, Binghi used it as a fish
poison. He scraped the bark from the
tree and cooked it in an oven for half an
hour; a dilly-bag containing the stuff put
in a pond and wriggled vigorously paralysed
the fish in it. If the dose were a strong
one in ratio to the size of . the pool, the fish
were killed, but remained eatable.
“G.A.S.”: Australia has its thermal
regions, but as they are remote from civili-
sation not much is heard about them. Near
the Musgrave telegraph station, between
Laura and Cape York, a fine bath has been
built about a hot spring, and you can have
a luxurious refresher for the trouble of strip-
ping and hopping in. In the same belt are
mud springs, apparently bottomless. For
all any one knows they may have the same
therapeutic qualities as the ALL. ones, but
there isn’t much rheumatism to cure in the
Far North.
$ ifc v #
“Dera” : The attack by a shark on a
surfer at Redhead (N.S.W.) the other day
is a reminder that
these brutes are
now commencing
their annual patrol
of our surf beaches,
following the great
shoals of salmon on
their way north to
spawn. During the
past two or three
years there has
been a. falling off
in shark attacks
on bathers, due
possibly to the
multiplication of
enclosures and the
more elaborate
precautions taken
to detect the pres-
ence of the enemy.
The last, previous
N.S.W. attack was
in 1929, when W.
,T. Oakley was
seized at Bald
Rock, but that is
no reason why
surfers should be
lured into a false
sense of security.
There seems to be
no particular rule
as to. avo id in g
attack, for as many
have been made on
members of large
crowds in the surf
as on solitary
swimmers. One
worth noting, how-
ever, is to keep
out of the water in the late evening, It is
at dusk and early night that the prowler
comes close in on the lookout for his
supper.
“ J.A.”: Australia easily holds the giant
rat championship. The other day a Traves-
ton (Q.) man killed a rat that scaled over
41b. and Avas I3|in. from snout to tail-tip.
Scientific name of this species-is Hydro my*
chrysofjaster, but plain blokes know, it as
the goiden-bellied water-rat. Its tail is usu-
ally long and partly white. These are true
rats, not marsupials.
«.* * *
“Werrimee” : Even the dingo is not with-
out- friends. Farmers in the Mackay (Q.)
district regard him as a useful ally, and
give him sanctuary. The local pest is the
wallaby, Avliich shelters in the scrubs
and raids the crops at night. The dingo
helps to keep the nuisance in check. With
the freedom and encouragement lie. has
enjoyed in that part of the country, Warri-
gal has become uncommonly bold, and in
some places prowls about the homesteads
at night. In such places he does no harm,
whilst his presence about the farms scares
off the wallabies that he doesn’t kill.
“Harold Hardupp” : A truce to all these
half-baked schemes to rid Sydney - beaches
of sharks! If the Gov-
ernment will give me
£50,000 I’m prepared to
deal with the matter
finally and comprehen-
sively. My plan is on
the “Pied Piper of . Ham-
elin” lines. The Pied
Piper will be represented
by a launch patrolling
the beaches, towing an
odoriferous cargo of par-.
'Ocularly dead.meat. Fol-
lowing this decoy every
shark on the coast will
be lured to-a spot, well
out at sea. A mosquito
fleet of launches laden
with kerosene will steal
tip' and surround them.
The oil will be poured on
the sea, which will then
be set on fire. I\ esti-
mate that, my modest fee
will be recouped to the authorities within
five years by the sale of the partially-boiled
sharks to fish-shops as snapper.
“Hamer”: The N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture has, taken charge of a freak ram
bred oh" a western station which 'is a re-
markable, throwback to the stock;from which
the merino was evolved, probably 2000 years
ago. The ram has abnormally long legs, no
neck folds of wool, and a coat full of the
coarse hair which was only eradicated from
the original stock by centuries of breeding.
Experiments are to be made to see whether
txic ram will pass on his atavistic character-
istics to his progeny or breed normal merino
lambs. .
“Double Express”: While agreeing with
“G.M.7” (B. 16/11/’32) that the .32
Winchester s is an admirable arm for the
kangaroo-shooter, I am not willing to admit
TRIAL AND ERROR .
that it is superior to the high-velocity
service type of .303 calibre when soft-nosed
bullets are used. The Winchester bullet
is a lead one —though there are makes bring
the nickel—and all lead bullets if driven
hard enough set up on impact and cause
a killing wound in any vulnerable part.
“G.M.T’s” experience of the .303 seems to
have been confined to nickel ammunition.
If he will try again with soft-nosed bullets
I think he will find that the combination
of high velocity and “set-up” will boat any-
thing the .32 can accomplish, while the
advantages of a 300-yard fiat trajectory
should also be taken into consideration.
These things are largely a matter of per-
sonal predilection. I can recall when the
Winchester .44 was all the go and its
champions scoffed at the smaller-bore rifle.
It remains to be said that big-game hunters
in Africa and elsewhere are adopting the
.303 high' velocity rifle in preference to the
old big bore expresses, which hit the shooter
almost as hard as they did the target.
:Js sfc
“Green Chequer”: As one associated with
homers from boyhood. I can assure “Dogs-
body” (B. 16/11/’32) .that the birds have
to be taught the routes They are expected
to fly. His war-time experience goes for
naught, since the. distances to the lofts from;
the line or a ’plane were trifling. “D.”
asks how pigeons ' could be trained to fly
from Vienna to London. The. answer is that
they are —and they are trained to fly from
Spain to England, and for other long-distance
flights. In Australia, too, are held annual
races of many hundreds of miles, the chief of
them being between Victorian and South
Australian centres. The big percentage
of birds lost on long flights is clear.'proof
that, apart from accidents and birds of
prey, it is the .highly-ttained homer who.
comes through best. If the horiier had an
infallible sense of direction we should not
find so many birds' casting up among
.strangers after a race, obviously lost. If
“D.” takes the trouble to hark hack to
the par. he criticises, he. will note that
there is no reference to “direetioiyfinding
sense.” The liomer certainly has an instinct
that way, but it is not so fantastically
developed as many mug experts appear to’
imagine. .
“Agama” : When the well-advertised Lady
Chayter passed through Sydney recently,
the local press .went into> v ecstasies over her
pet “chameleon” Egbert. We 11,.. Egbert, has
given, this mortal sphere a miss. ‘Whily on
a' tour of N.Q. with his owner, lie was found:
to have hanged .himself by his'tether. .lie
was immediately, cut down, hut all ,efforts at
resuscitation proved "fruitless, as “the local
correspondent put it, arid he was interred
on Dunk Island. The reason for liis suicide
is a mystery, but writer is strongly of opinion
that it was due to disgust at being described
as a chameleon, a foreign beast, when he
was an Australian spined lizard, the Moloch
horridus of Westralia.
THE COOK’S SPECIFIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The state of things is pretty crook,
Admitted Ginger Joe, the cook.
“And, ’less I’m very much mistook,
The only way to end it
And make this darned depression go
Is for the chaps who’ve got the dough—
There’s plenty of ’em left, you know—
To loosen up and spend it.
“There’s money in the world galore,
More than there ever was before,
A clinking, gleaming, rustling store
In lots of. strongrooms lying.
Stacks, too, to buy therewith, you bet,,
Bargains in ev’ry line —and yet
It’s queer,- the cheaper that they get
The less there is for buying.
“These cure-alls politicians flap
Before your face, they tire a chap;
These- remedies professors yap
I reckon mere flapdoodle.
I tell you straight, it’s time they found
Some way to free the .prisoned pound,
To send the hoarded, million round >
And thaw the frozen boodle.
“In bursting vaults their gold they cram,
Those thrifty Frogs and Uncle Sam ;
They lack the nous to see the jamb
In which it deeper sets them.
When all the world. is in the slough
It’s not the time- for hoarding now.”
Said Ginger Joe.’ “I wonder how
The League of Nations lets them.
“In storage cold away it’s laid,
The medium that mints have made
To grease the creaking wheels off trade
Where things are bought arid paid for.
It’s up to all, I don’t care who,
From nations down to me and you,
To see our nimble' shillings do
The work that coins were made for.
“For money’s round,” said Ginger Joe,
“And round and round ’twas meant to go;
And when the outlook's crook, you know.
Why, that’s the way to mend it.
In times like these he’s but a swab
Who’d jib at shouting for the mob.
Now which of you’ll take on the job?
It’s up to him who holds a bob
Or two just now to spend it.”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


THE
AUSTRALIA
Christmas in Sydney
Ausi
a
ia /Hotel
Christmas in Sydney— enchanting things to do and see on every hand.
of h aol maS r at 7 he crowds and brilliant social life, entrancing splendor
of appointment, standards of comfort and luxury most happily conceived.
Early boohing is desirable for so delightful a holiday. Illustrated folder free on request.
New reduced tariff—Room-only rates:
'7 ', 0/6 "" ?** r‘ h * DOUW<! R °°'" only 20/- per day.
' V-, andl ala carte. Luncheon and Dinner, .la carte, Minimum 4/-.
Light Luncheon m the Winter Garden, 2/-
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “Amtraotel, Sydney.”
SMOKE-OH!
Indiscretion seems to be the better part
of De Valera.
H- *
Ambiguous tribute to young Mrs. Flirtte:
She has a most devoted triangle of
admirers.”
* *
MORE SIDELIGHTS ON OUR
VISITORS
Voce exerts a quiet yet decisive influence
on his team-mates. Even the mercurial
Duckworth is beginning to roar his
“ ’Owzats?” sotto voce.
Although Voce couldn’t get leave to write
it is understood that he is allowed to broad-
cast reports of matches viva voce.
On festive, occasions he could also speak
blotto voce, if indulgence in strong waters
were a vice of Voce’s.
Voce is thought to lie one of England’s
best bowlers. In the Tests Voce and Lar-
wood may open the attack, to be followed
by Tate vice Voce or vice versa.
Verity is another interesting personality,
lie is believed to be a direct descendant of
the man so frequently mentioned in the
Bible: “Verity, Verity, I say unto y0u”....
In view of Verity’s ability to' make a
rain-sodden pitch a veritable Slough of
“You'll only drink it,, I suppose, instead of
taking it home to your wife.”
"I ain’t got no wife, lady — I’m earning my
own living."
Despond for the opposing side, one such
passage seems distinctly prophetic: “And
when the. waters are upon the earth and
the waters are under the turf, Verity, Verity,
I say unto you, the wicket shall' be o’er-
thrown, the stumps of thine enemies shall
be scattered and their efforts set down at
nought; they shall depart sadly unto their
pavilions; sackcloth shall be their portion
and the ashes shall be denied them.” (Revised
Version - — Exodus, Gliaps. 1-XI.).
Effigee.
“Lyons will cut taxes.’’
Let's hope he doesn't use a safety razor.
“The defaulting solicitor is said not to have kept
any hooks.”
The trouble with most defaulters is that
they kept too many “books.”
* *
RAMBLE THROUGH THE ETHER.
S.O p.m.—
“Ai lurv you, Ai lurv you.
With a lurv that will not groo coo-old.
Ai lurv you”
(Silenced.)
8.1 to'B.s—
Explosions.
S. 6—
“And the goods, Ai can assuali you, list-
eners, are of the veray haighest qualitay.
Now all that you good people
requiah to doo-oo is visit the
luxurious showrooms of Messrs.
Boggle and Company at 129 —one-
two-nine, remember—B laig h t-
strcet, City. Doon’t forget the
neem-ah, BOGGLE ”
( Gagged. )
8.7 — _
“Ai lurv you,
With a lurv
( Silenced. )
5.7
“Rum-ti-tum. I gotter goil,
Rum-ti-tum. My haid’s in a
woil.”
( Silenced. )
B.B—
nex' message is for Gladys
Bunkum, aged 18, of 27 Squid-
street, Cascara. Puttin’ on a bit
of weight, aren’t yer. Glad? Wod-
dabout gettin’ up a bit earlier an’
helpin’ mum with the breakfast?
] hat ud bring the old waistline
down a bit, an’ get the boys round
more than-what they been doing
lately. Ha! Ha! On’y my joke.
Glad. Well, Glad, if yer look
under the sofer in the sitting-
room’’ ■
(Closure applied.)
Atmospherics.
,8.91
“Rum-ti-tum, I gotter goil”
{Silenced.)
B.lo 1
“So surrely, eomrrades, as the Capittalees-
ne _ State poor-sues its preesent policee o’
gn'indm’ selfushniss; so surrely as members
o the prroleetanat have their reets filched
tra them be a purrse-prood oligarrchy o’
bankers an’ their dupes an’ hirelings in
high places’
(Off.)
S 1;9 V " ’ ■
And T doo-oo imp/oh// yon, listeners to
beah in maind this useful little—ah—gadget
9 oi’., the vera V moderate praice of
•is. bd.
(Silenced.)
8.13 ’
the Capittaleestic State, eomrrades”
8 14 (Gagged.)
, •’•••■look on the gasbox, young ’Arrv
an see what dad’s put there”
81g __ (Gagged.)
Explosions, whistles, spittings
B.lo b •
goods”—- 0 ASSUAIF YOU that the
8.16
“Rum-ti-fum”
8.17- <°*>
• • • • 'Capittaleestic State, eomrrades”——
(Silenced.)
(Burnt of profanity from, rambler.)
Ramble Ends.
* * 10 - 2 - 4 -
UP-TO-DATE VERSION.
I r pusc to go hiking with Bert.
He likes- in far places to roam,
And he s known as a terrible flirt.
1 m afraid / might have to iude home
* » '’■"'•«••
the killer.
Watson gasped.
Holmes ?“ ean t 0 Say you know his
laugh? Sr ° at investigator omitted a hollow
mojS-Srs f ” 10W ’ 1 have known i<: foi ‘
i And is actually one whom our be-
h* d< - IW,tcd f ° iloTlor • A
“He wears braces, as a rule, but he’s a
knight, all right.”
“Appalling!”
“The slayings have been marked by a
similarity of technique which betrays the
master hand. The victims have been dis-
patched, one and all, as you may have
noticed, with the resolute promptitude which
one noticed in that melancholy case of ours,
‘The Viscount and the Keg of Dynamite.’ ”
“Can you put your hands on him if neces-
sary?”
“His business address is Castlereagh-
street, City. He usually lunches”
“Then you will act, Holmes —and soon?”
“Not so, my dear Watson. Several of
his victims _ richly deserved their fate, and
I have an idea that if we give him enough
rope he may yet kill his own ‘Sun.’ ”
D.
* *
“Most of the men at The Granites came from
Melbourne.” —News item.
It takes a man who’s used to the Mel-
bourne Sunday to put up with hardships.
“Terence, ye look crook!’
“Aye, an’ lam crook. Lumbagey tuk me
in the back the other night an’ I had to
be carried home.”
“The dirthy dog!”
“She represented herself as a widow, but shortly
after midnight her husband arrived at the flat.”
Exactly—her late husband.
THE CHAT.
“Hello!” “Hello, my dear!” “Fancy
meeting you!” “Isn’t it funny?” “We
haven’t had a. chat for ages.” “Not for
ages.” “And how are you?” “Splendid.”
“That’s splendid!” “How are you?”
“Splendid, thanks!” “Splendid.” “You’re
looking well.” “I’m feeling well.” “You’re
looking well yourself.” “Oh, I can’t com-
plain.” ,
Pause .
"How’s your family?” “They’re all
well.” "Splendid!” “How are your
people?” “Splendid.” “Splendid!”
Pause.
“My dear, have you ever known more
awful weather?” “Isn’t it awful?” “Fright-
ful !’’ “Too cold.” “Gives you the creeps.”
“You’d think it was winter.” “You would!”
"Not a bit like summer.” “Not a bit. I
don’t know—the weather seems all upside
down these days.” “Doesn’t it? You never
know how to dress !” “Never ! It’s awful!”
“Now this morning—who’d have thought
one would need a coat?” “Awful!” “And
the annoying thing is if one had brought a
coat one wouldn’t have needed it!” “Isn’t
it terrible? I remember thinking when I
left home ‘I won’t need a coat to-day.’”
"So did I!” Isn’t it terrible?” “It’s the
limit!”
Pause.
“What haw; you been doing with your-
self > “My dear, I haven’t been doing any-
re,?lly*” “ Just dodging about?”
lhats all. What have you been doing?”
Nothing, really.” “The usual things?”
Same old things. Dodging about, you
know.
Pause.
“Well, my dear, I suppose I’d better be
getting along.” “So must I.”
t „ Pause.
•WeH, It’ve thoroughly enjoyed our chat.”
Ive enjoyed- it, too!” “There’s nothing
like a good gossip, is there?” “Nothing.”
Pause.
Well, good-bye, my dear. Good-bye.”
Dive, me a ring sometime.” “Yes—l will.”
"Don’t forget!” “I won’t forget!” “Well
good-bye!” “Good-bye!”
D. E.
Text for Test skippers:—
“Let not their right-handers know what your left-
handers are doing.”
¥ *
“In the City Court, a naval rating charged with
having been drunk stood very penitently.” ,
— Melb. “Herald .
Yet some say sailors don’t care !
* *
“During the second reading the Minister kept
the House amused with his witty remarks.”
It's what they call “gagging” a bill
through.
* *
THE GRAN-ITES.
{By Hot-air Mail.)
The temperature rose to 185 in the sun
last night (there’s no shade even at night
up here), and this morning four strong men
have been detailed off to hold the thermo-
meter down on the ground. Everybody car-
ries a tree round in order to walk in its
shade, but several adventurers got caught
in a sun-shower without umbrellas this
morning and were severely scalded. Water
is the big problem. Milkmen get all their
supplies from Adelaide. The only local water
to be had smells like a tin-liare license. The
latest scheme evolved to avoid using it is
to carry an onion. When thirsty you simply
take a whiff of the onion and drink your
tears.
Sydney folk will be surprised to learn
that there are nearly as many aboriginals up
here as at La Perouse, and they’ll be more
surprised still to hear that the Northern
Territory abos. don’t try to sell you boom-
erangs. They are as bare of clothing as a
Bondi beach beauty’s back, and, owing to
the poor nature of the country, life to them
is just one long depression. But perhaps
the Ottawa Agreement will fix all that.
Some of the fellows haven’t struck enough
gold to fill a tooth yet, but most of them
are old-timers and quite philosophical about
things. As soon as they realise they have
pegged out their claim in the wrong spot
they simply pull out and peg somewhere
else. The idea seems to be to keep on doing
this till you peg out yourself.
* ¥
“The sight of the uniforms infuriated the mob,
which assailed and disarmed the soldiers, smashed
their rifles and knocked off their steel helmets.”
—Report from. Geneva.
The League has evidently decided to start
at home.
¥ *
“Of course, a dry batsman’s wicket will deprive
Verity of 80 per cent, of his effectiveness.”
— Melb. “Herald.”
But he should recover his form after the
dry batsman has had a few.
TEACHER: “Why are you late?”
BOBBY: “Well, the sign down the”
TEACHER: “Well, what’s the sign got to do
with it?”
BOBBY: “The sign says: ‘School—go slow!’”
TO GINGER MEGGS.
Greetings, immortal offspring of the “Sun”!
Week after iceck I’vc followed your
career
IT hile old, friends died, their earthly courses
run,
i Ami young ones grew maturer ev’ry year.
Empires have crashed since you first came
to light,
Talkies, the Bridge and Bradman have
arrived —-
This world of ours has altered out of sight.
You, and you only, seem to have contrived
Nature’s inexorable laws to flout.
Still, as in decades past, you are a child,
Tearing with long, dishevelled locks about;
And still your humor makes staid neigh-
bors wild
Until they are reminded of your youth.
How is it done , you back-yard Peter Pan?
In Charity’s siccet name reveal the truth.
Is it some magic drug or talisman?
A social star who’s lost that girlish glow
(She’s sixty-odd, and looks it) wants to
know ?
SOCIETY GOSSIPER.
NEW VERSION.
“There's a hit of a flaw,”
Raid Marjorie Daw,
“In that tale about Jack
And his master,
Who only would pay
Jack a penny a day.
{He said Jack was slack —
A disaster.)
I am happy to find
That somewhere behind
The Boss is the Premiers’ Plaster,
Which the bankers control
With a plentiful roll.
Ensuring enough to keep
Jack on the dole
Prom the taxes —the smashing big taxes —
they heap
On his master!”
L. A.


AN INEXPENSIVE STATION STOCK SADDLE
m
m
WE STAND ALONE
FOR COWBOY
SADDLERY.
WRITE FOR OUR
CATALOGUE, No. 329.
The No. 130 “STOCKRIDER”
This i s exceptional value for the money. It
lias hok skin seat, strong firm, capped
kneepads set well up in the skirts and the
favorite long flaps and panel, with leather
points.
PRICE, £5/2/6 Bare.
heathers, 6/-. Girth, 5/-. Good n.p. 3-Bar
Irons, 6/6 extra.
£6 Complete.
For cash with order we will send freight paid to any
N.S.W. Railway Station.
No. 146 Ringliead Bridle, with n.p. ring bit, 12/-; post 1/-
Enough Collar Check for Saddle Cloth, 5/6; or 7/6 per yd.
No 45 Plain Hide Saddle Pouch. 6/9; post. 1/-
Above all Freight Free, if sent with saddle.
SAY GOOD-
BYE TO
SORE BACKS.
Our No. 300 Horsehair Saddle Cloth is
a sore back preventative. Made
entirely of woven tail hair. Easy to
wash—-swill it in the creek before
you have your lunch and the sun will
dry it by the time you’re finished.
21/-. Post: N.S.W., 1/6; Q, Vic., 3/6.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
SADDLERS, 391 VO 395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
■':Vvv :;*(L
I
'- . ..'V"":'. ‘ :
6 Jk
1
ẁ
I think I’ll be
pushing off
£xU>e
m
lor Instantaneous
pushing off
—when you’ve said “good-bye
and, by way of further empha-
sis, "Well, good-bye”-at this
point it is best and happiest for
all that you should get away.
If the engine declines to start
—then the situation is ruined,
and your smiles begin to look
as if they were fixed on with
pins. Fit an EXIDE Battery
and when you want to start
—START*
STATE DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane—EXlDE BATTERY SERVICE (Q) PTY.
LTD.,; Sydney —EXIDE BATTERY SERVICE (Gibson Battle & Co. Ltd.) ;
Melbourne—A. P. SUTHERLAND; Adelaide UNBEHAUN & JOHN-
STONE LTD.; Perth—M. J. BATEMAN LTD.; Hobart MEDHURST &
SONS PTY. LTD.
ẃ
Obtainable from Fxide Service
Stations or your Garage.
Exide Service Stations give ser-
vice on every make of battery.
ECS
When its an Exide you START
c fe CKarm of the
PACIFIC
INLANDS'
v y
w
i-
$
IE
3
m
PuTcnfteU)
For less than the cost
of a city holiday!
EXCURSION FARES
{NO EXCHANGE)
SUVA, FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days, Ist Class Return, £35
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva, Ist Class Return, £75
Seven-weeks’ Tour .... Cabin,, „ £65
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Twenty-three Days’ Tour, Ist Class Return, £45
Via Wellington, N.Z... Cabin,, „ £34
PAPEETE, TAHITI.
Via Wellington and .
Rarotonga .. Ist Class Return, £56
Seven-weeks’ Tour .. Cabin,, ~ £4O
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street. Sydney;
69 William Street, Melbourne.
and U nion Lines
MORE TO ENJOY on land and sea
.. . enroute to
ENGLAND "‘AMERICA
on the > *
MARIPOSA & MONTEREY
NEW nine-deck ocean triumphs
m
I
mmn
I*
Moderate Fares from
SYDNEY to ENGLAND (
FIRST CLASS from J
Single Return s
£105.10 £194.10
CABIN CLASS from
• £B3 * "£152
qfmp&r&ani . . .
Special Reduced Seasonal Fares to America in
effect December, January and February, Book early!
SYDNEY™
LOS ANGELES or SAN FRANCISCO
FIRST CLASS
ROUND TRIP from
CABIN CLASS
ROUND TRIP from
£99
£7O
HOLIDAY IN THE SOUTH SEAS with economy
NOW" moderate fares and faster time bring these treasured vacation lands to you
MINIMUM FARES from SYDNEY to
FIRST CLASS
Single Return
CABIN
Single
CLASS
Return
SUVA, Fiji 25.0.0 35.0.0 18.15.0
PAGO PAGO, Samoa . . 33.5.0 65.0.0 24. 5.0
HONOLULU, Hawaii . . 55.0.0 75.0.0 38.10.0
47.10.0
55. 0.0
On a "pound and pence” basis THESE SHIPS and
THIS ROUTE set a NEW standard in accommo-
dations, service and value. 18 days to CALIFOR-
NIA! 28 days to ENGLAND. .Through trans-
portation to any point in England and America.
Next Sailings to Ameriea
via Auckland, Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii
“Monterey,” Dec. 17. “Mariposa,” Jan. 14.
Many other attractive fare
combinations to Europe
and Around-the-World
Fares subject to exchange.
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON LINE
M11-7A i2 Bridge Street, SYDNEY. 'Phone: B798I-S


SUNSHINE HARVESTING
Sunshine Auto Header.
wwIe
Sunshine Header Harvester.
w
Sunshine Stripper Harvester.
THE SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
12ft. Cot. Self-Propelled. (See top illustration.)
Will harvest 40 acres in a day. Petrol consumption half a gallon to the acre.
Two men only required, one to drive and one to tend the bagging on the
bagging platform. The Auto Header secures the maximum yield of grain
from every condition of crop, heavy or light, storm-flattened or weed-infested.
It is Quick, Efficient and Economical^
THE SUNSHINE HEADER HARVESTER
6ft., Bft. and 16 ft. cut. (See centre illustration.)
Sunshine Header Harvesters are renowned for their ability to pick up and
successfully harvest the worst down and tangled or thistle-choked crops.
They are equally effective in clean standing crops, whether heavy or light,
on hillside or level ground.
For work on very sandy or hilly country, or for rice-harvesting, the machine
can be supplied with a 4-cylinder petrol engine incorporated to drive the
mechanism. A small team suffices for haulage.
The Sunshine Header Harvester also harvests field peas, and for this purpose
a special pea-reaping front is attached to the 6ft. or Bft. machine. In conse-
quence, peas can be profitably grown as a rotation crop.
THE SUNSHINE STRIPPER HARVESTER
Type A.L., Bft. and 16ft. cut, (S ee bottom illustration.)
The light-draught harvester. Five horses pull it in normal crop, six horses
in heavy conditions. Side draught is reduced to a minimum. Successfully
harvests light and heavy crops.
ALSO THE SUNSHINE REAPER AND BINDER
Sweet running, sure tying, neat sheafing, long lasting—6ft. and Bft. sizes.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD.
(SUNSHINE SECTION)
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
BRANCHES: 664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne; 27-39 George Street West, Sydney; 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide; Corner Murray
and King Streets, Perth. Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Q’land) Pty., Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Illustrated Descriptive Catalogues, Prices and Terms, Posted Free on Request.
K
%
•>
tSs*»*s *■#*
, ••
6
S'-:
i
■
HhHH
MM
m
\
ZOT
m
T"
■
Sis
11PV ,
l s f f A
KL t. f i i #
%Cy><¥
BACKACHE
M They did Mother
so much
good
SHE LOOKS l\ll FEELS
TEN YEARS YOUNGER!
99
“You know those wonderful pills that did Mother so much
good when she was crippled with backache? You remember
those pills were good for my bad back, and rheumatism, too. I
couldn’t sleep, and was in terrible pain all day long. Everybody
told me that De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills were really
wonderful, and when I realised my weak kidneys were the real
cause of my trouble I got a supply of these pills, and they did
work wonders.
I am going to get you a supply right away. They’ll stop
your pain and make you feel altogether stronger. I’ll get you a
3/6 box—or perhaps I had better get a 6/6 size, it’s much more
economical. You have only to take two pills at night, one before
meal-times, and your pain, like mine, will go for good.”
Thousands of men and women have come to the brink of
breakdown*by chronic symptoms that actually reveal deep-seated
kidney trouble.
But there are thousands of one-time sufferers, now restored
to health, who will tell you there is no surer, safer, more certain
and inexpensive remedy for lumbago, chronic backache, rheu-
matism, sciatica, and all the sure signs of kidney trouble, than
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
Where other remedies fail, in cases where men and women
have been bed-ridden, or perhaps have suffered—not weeks, but
years—De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have banished the
old pain and their wonderful tonic powers have restored health,
vigour and vitality.
There is no mystery about this remedy. Your own chemist
can tell you all about the prescription printed on each box. Get
a 3/6, or the larger and more economical 6/6 supply, and get back
health to-day. Ask for and see you get the genuine De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, in the blue, white and gold box. These
pills are never sold loose.
Dewitt’s
KIDNEY &
BLADDER
PILUI


r-;
csat
snrt&\ -
DIAMONDS FOR SERVICE
THE batteries used in railway work must stand up, to
hard service.
Consistent performance is essential—dependability, ions
life, rapid recuperation and economical operation.
Diamonds supply the Victorian and Queensland railways
—which means that Diamonds have proved their superior
quality in many long, hard tests.
Diamonds also hold the exclusive contract for supplying
radio batteries to the P.M.G.’s Broadcasting Department
throughout Australia—which means that once again
experts have proved the superiority of Diamonds.
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES-TORCH REFILLS
DPS.!
YOU should buy Dia-
monds. Every battery
is guaranteed identical in
quality with those sup-
plied to the experts. Fit
Diamonds for Service—
a id get it!
I-
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
PASTURE-SEED PRODUCTION.
Victoria is not lagging behind its neigh-
bors in this matter, which has been discussed
in recent M.O.L. articles, though it; is back-
ward compared with Maoriland. There is a
pasture-plant research field in Burnley Gar-
dens, Melbourne, where useful work has
been done, and the Department of Agricul-
ture has secured the co-operation of farmers
in the policy of making the State sell-con-
tained as to its seed requirements. Those
interested are encouraged to organise for
their mutual benefit; for example, there is
a Perennial Ryegrass Growers’ Association
at Colac. An interesting account of opera-
tions at Burnley, with pertinent remarks
on facts established there, lias been fur-
nished to the November “Journal” by Senior
Agrostologist Harrison.
The research field consists of live acres of
stiff, grey clay loam, well drained, with a
26in. rainfall. In 1929, following on strain
investigations begun in the autumn of 1928,
150 lines of sub. clover seed were sown
there, seed being obtained “in Victoria and
other Australian States, England, M.L.,
Germany, France and America. There have
been separated early-maturing and late-
maturing strains, leafy and stemmy strains,
free seeders and shy seeders. Some wilt
and die in late November ;• others keep green
into early January.” A promising mid-
season selection is Burnerang, “developed
at Burnley from the seed of one original
plant which was isolated from the Wan-
gafatta strain. It has short runners, and
its leaves have an upright habit of growth
and are relatively abundant in proportion
to the amount of stem. This selection is a
perfect example of the self-fertility of sub.
clover, in that the seed from that original
plant has been multiplied in two years up
to 201 b. without any variants having
appeared.”
In the case of Wimmera ryegrass, breed-
ing of a pure strain is impracticable, since
this grass is an annual requiring cross-
fertilisation for propagation. Existing
strains have, however, been classified into
early, mid-season and late, and development
of still earlier- and later-maturing strains is
aimed at. Mr. Harrison has a high opinion
of Wimmera ryegrass. “It makes splendid
winter growth, is , able to take advantage
of short seasons, and may be satisfactorily
maintained from year to year by reseeding
and light cultivation.’
Regarding perennial ryegrass, the inves-
tigator repeats the warning of the N. S.
Wales authorities that much of the seed sold
as perennial is not true to name. He
singles out Maoriland certified seed for
praise, and has a good word for seed from
old Victorian pastures: “The majority of
the samples from these old pastures have
proved to be productive and long-lived types.
Many, collected from old pastures not pre-
viously harvested, indicate that it would be
possible to harvest very much larger quan-
tities of good seed than are at present col-
lected.”
Investigations with cocksfoot have demon-
strated that Victorian seed is as good as
Akaroa and better than Danish. There is
emphatically no need for the importation
of so much Danish seed. “The possibilities
of a considerable expansion of the cocksfoot
seed industry in Victoria are very favor-
able,” provided “clean viable seed of
superior strains is harvested.”
White-clover seed is not harvested for
sale in Victoria. Supplies come partly
from Maoriland and partly from Europe.
Yet “trials have demonstrated that there
are distinct local Victorian strains in which
early- or late-flowering, leafy or stemmy,
and short- or long-lived plants may pre-
dominate. Many of our volunteer stands
of white clover, more particularly those in
the irrigation districts, are of an excellent
type and well worthy of harvesting for
seed. It is a definite loss that the com-
mercialisation of our own strains has not
been undertaken.” This is unfortunately
true of other pasture plants as well as
white clover, and of other States as well
as Victoria.
HORSES AND TRACTORS.
“Jay Gee”: “Jamwood” (B. 9/11/’32)
will need to produce sounder evidence to
convince me that the tractor can be com-
pared with Dobbin when it comes to a
question of making wheat-growing pay.
Twenty years’ experience with horses and
many years’ observation of my neighbors
who have employed mechanical power have
satisfied me that the man who is farming
for profit must use horses. If, on the
other hand, farming is taken up as a hobby,
use the tractor by all means, and thus obvi-
ate the extra work necessarily connected
with horse teams.
The price of a tractor fully equipped for
farm work is £5OO. Operating cost per
acre varies with the work done and the
implement hauled, but during every work-
ing moment the tractor is consuming fuel
and oil and wearing itself out. The aver-
age useful life of a tractor that does the
whole of the work on a wheat-farm is
approximately six years; it may be much
shorter if the owner or operator is not a com-
petent mechanic. As against this, a team
of ten four-year-old farm horses, together
with harness, may be bought for £3OO. They
will do the whole job just as efficiently as
the tractor, but will take a little longer.
Often the horses are at work on soil with
boggy patches weeks before the tractor
could operate on such land. Cost of horse-
feed per acre in all but drought years is
considerably smaller than the cost of fuel
and oil for the tractor. Much light work on
fallow can be done with horses off the
grass in favorable seasons. Your ten horses
at the end of six years are worth as much
as (often more than) they were when bought,
and should be good for a further twelve
years. Cost of upkeep, apart from fodder,
is practically nil.
Thus we have the ten-liorse team at £3OO
outlasting three tractors at £l5OO (£5OO
apiece) plus the cost of imported duplicate
parts when renewals and replacements are
necessary—a heavy expense when the life
of the engine nears its end. “Jamwood”
quotes figures to justify his arguments for
the tractor, but he must remember that the
proficiency of the farmer is of paramount
importance, no matter what means are
employed. In the instances he gives the
better yields obtained by the tractor-
farmers were probably due to their greater
farming knowledge; and the extra yield
would be more than offset by the greater
cost of production.
SORTING OR CLASSING.
“Murrawong”: I put the argument before
the director of a woolbroking firm, a wool-
buyer and a manufacturer. A summary of
their opinions is that good classing is as
acceptable to them as any shed-sorting. The
broker cited the case of a well-known N. S.
Wales station where the matter was put
to the test, shed-liands being replaced by
skilled sorters at special rates of pay. The
first year’s sales were disappointing. But
the owner decided to give the scheme a fair
trial, and the clip was sorted to quality the
second year. It was then found that results
did not justify the innovation, with its addi-
tional expense, and the clip is now* classed
as before.
The woolbuyer and the manufacturer
replied, in effect, that wool sorted to quality,
whether in a shearing shed or in a repacker’s
store, so seldom suited their needs that
almost every parcel purchased by them had
to be resorted by their own men before pro-
cessing. Certainly, under competent sorting
the percentage of outsorts would be mini-
mised, but any carefully-bred flock, care-
fully classed, would yield equal results.
The point that militates against sorting is
the elasticity of wool standards. One
buyer’s idea of a GO’s may be different from
another man’s, and the disparity between
Bradford and Continental “counts” is well
known in the trade. The essential part of
preparing the clip for market should be
done by the owner or manager with the cull-
ing raddle before shearing commences. There-
after, if the classer knows liis wool and
groups his lines honestly according to type,
quality and yield, there will be fewer com-
plaints about bad classing.
DINGO-POISONING IN QUEENSLAND.
The dingo-poisoning campaign undertaken
in Queensland is referred to in the • eighth
(and last) annual report of the Prickly-Pear
Commission, which, having stopped the con-
quering march of the pear (it was spreading
at the rate of 800,000 acres a year) and
reclaimed, chiefly with the aid of the cacto-
blastis insect, millions of acres regarded as
hopelessly infested, is handing over to the
Land Administration Board. Winter is the
time for poisoning wild dogs, and strychnine
is the bait generally used. Darcy Donkin,
of Meteor Downs, Springsure, made avail-
able his formula for a bait used by him with
.success on his property; this was manu-
factured in large quantities and distributed
at ss. per case of 250, rail freight paid to
the nearest station. To June 30 2536 cases
had .been sold; to the end of August 78840 z.
of strychnine had been supplied to graziers
who preferred to make their own baits.
“Reports as to the effectiveness of the
Donkin baits have been conflicting,” the
Commission says, but it declares itself
“satisfied that the campaign was a success.
Although many baits have been found un-
touched, it must be remembered that they were
sold at a very cheap rate, and consequently
most of the* landholders distributed them
very generously. Several cases came under
notice in which domestic dogs were destroyed
deliberately with these baits, and the poison
took some two or three hours to act. Thus
a wild dog would, after taking a bait, easily
reach his lair in rough country, and would
not be found close to the spot at which he
got the bait, as very many persons have
seemed to expect, and as is most frequently
the case when fresh-poisoned animal baits
are used.”
Still, poisoning, undertaken voluntarily,
is no permanent solution of the problem,
effective though it may be for a time here
and there. What is needed is a national
campaign against the dingo, mobilising
settlers, poisoners and trappers, and employ-
ing every weapon and contrivance that can
be brought to bear on the work of isolation
and destruction. The dingo roams un-
checked over vast tracts of the interior.
He is more numerous in Westralia than
in Queensland. In the Westralian wheat
belt farmers unable to afford dingo-proof
fencing can’t keep sheep. Thus a vast
amount of good feed goes to waste.
ON STONY GROUND.
“Tumbe Munda”: “Yarri” (B. 2/11/’32)
puts in a good word for stony ground, and
I can support him from South Aus. experi-
ence. My stony ground is really a limestone
rubble. It is almost useless as far as natural
feed is concerned, for neither in winter nor
spring will it give a growth ; and for cereal
growing it is poor. But for summer crops
I have found it superior to the loam.
Lucerne does well on this land, and I have
even had self-sown crops. On the limestone,
moreover, Sudan grass germinates more
quickly and does better than on other classes
of soil. During the 1914 drought I sowed
a paddock down with marrow kale (cliou
moodier). The soil was sandy loam, red
clay loam and this limestone rubble. On
the limestone the marrow kale grew to about
2ft. high and lasted through the summer;
on the loams there was nothing. I can’t
tell the reason for this, but the fact remains
that for grazing the limestone is very poor;
for summer crops it is very good.
LIMING IN GIPPSLAND.
“A.F.M.”: Let me tell “O’Gorman” (P».
26/10/’B2) that acid soil will not give the
best returns from leguminous crops under
any manurial treatment unless it is first
neutralised by the application of lime. Most
Gippsland soil gives an acid reaction. The
only reasonable argument against liming in
Gippsland is its cost. This is not enough
to stop many farmers from trying their
luck, so they might as well pick a crop that
has been proved sensitive to lime. Accord-
ing to C. E. Thorne, plants relatively sensi-
tive to soil acidity are lucerne, asparagus,
barley, beet, bluegrass, cabbage, cauliflower,
clover, maize, cucumber, lettuce, onion, pars-
nip, pea. rhubarb, spinach, sunflower and all
fescue. J. T. Ramsay, potato expert to the
Vic. Department of Agriculture, says of
potato crops at Childers (Gippsland) : “This
class of country is one of the few in _ \ ic-
toria which seem to be materially influ-
enced for the better by liming, as is shown
by the following table: Average of nine
plots, limed, 5 tons 12cwt. lqr; unlimed,
4 tons’ 13cwt. 2qr.
“O’Gorman’s” remark that, burnt and
ground lime is twice as effective a.s pulver-
ised limestone or burnt and air-slaked
lime may be misleading. It has not been
proved that one is better than the other so
long as the weight of calcium is the same.
IRRIGATION PROBLEMS.
“Woqrinen” : Few Australians.realise the
keenness with which irrigation practice is
being studied by Professor Prescott, of
Adelaide Uni., and the C. 8. and I. R. under
A. V. Lyon at Merbein (Vic.). These
investigators are aiming at the discovery
of the most economical method of giving
plants their water requirements; of the
exact, water requirements of all sOils 4 and of
the way to prevent seepage and the
creation of watertables. The Waite Insti-
tute, under Prof. Prescott, has a soil-survey
staff at work, paid by the C. S. and I. R.
Soil surveys have been made of a number
of settlements, and ultimately the whole of
the Murray Valley usable for irrigation will
be examined and set out in a series of soil
types. The next step is to find the “wilting”
point and “sticky” point (field saturation)
of all these soil types. It is between these
points that growth of plants takes place.
Plants will not grow in a waterlogged soil
any more than they will in a dry soil.
Discoveries at Merhein are gradually
revolutionising Victorian irrigation practice.
Experiments were set out to show the
manner in which water penetrated the
ground from a furrow in various soil types,
and the time taken to wet these soils to
saturation point or field capacity. Profiles
were cut across these furrows in soil sec-
tions and the results plotted out in graphs.
These graphs showed a wide variety in
regard to lateral spread, downward percola-
tion and time taken. Mr. Lyon is of
opinion that in many soil types an efficient
irrigation, taking in the whole root zone of
vines and trees, can be done in six hours.
To test this'a block of several acres of vines
las been planted out; larger outlet pipes
than usual are placed in the head-ditch, and
at no time will these vines be watered for
more than six hours. In the Mildura dis-
trict irrigations of up to 48 hours are com-
mon. And pumping water comes expen-
sive ; the rates at Mildura are £3 10s. per
acre. Now reduction of costs by these
methods is in sight. Mr. A. Lochead, a
leading grower and one of the oldest resi-
dents of Mildura, has adopted the six-hour
principle, and has increased his yield con-
siderably.
POTATO-PLANTING.
“W.J.W.”: The sprouting of seed prior
to planting is now an accepted routine in
the growing of potatoes, but often difficulty
is experienced in so handling the sets as to
avoid injuring the shoots. On my West-
ralian place I have found the following
method speedy and satisfactory.
Seed should be placed in trays or shallow
boxes in a darkened shed into which a
certain amount of heat can be introduced. A
building of timber and perforated sheet-iron,
with shelves about 9in. apart to allow of
free air circulation after the sprouting has
commenced, serves excellently. When the
trays are filled, preferably not more than
two potatoes deep, the perforated walls are
covered with paper (newspaper and a little
glue) and, when quick shooting is desired,
a slow cooking-lamp under a bowl of water
is placed in the centre of the shed. If
stable manure is available it can be used
instead, if room permits, turning it when
its heat decreases. When the sets are well
sprouted, say three-eighths of an inch, re-
move the heat supply and the paper from
the walls and expose the seed to air
and light. The shoots will harden, will
grow slowly, and will stand more rough
handling during planting operations.
It it is desired to plant cut sets they
should be spread out, immediately after
cutting, under damp bags, and allowed to
harden gradually before shooting. They will
soon assume a corky hardness over the cut
areas and will not rot after planting. Many
growers have no trouble in this respect, and
then the precaution may be unnecessary ;
but heavy clay ground, which ff handled
right will produce good potatoes, is often
subject to rot.
Now for the planting. I have constructed
a machine for carrying the trays, copied
from an illustration in an English agricul-
tural journal. It is horse-drawn, and con-
sists of two platforms, one above and in
front of the other like steps, erected on a
crank axle to keep it near the ground.
Each platform holds three trays, and three
men can plant from it simultaneously, if
necessary, taking a row i each. I drill the
land first, allowing 2ft. (fin. to each row,
plant in the furrows, and then split the
drills. This ensures that, as the ground
is all thoroughly stirred, no rough clods
will fall; on, and consequently damage, the
shoots. The wide rows admit of frequent
cultivation until the crop is almost fully
grown. I broadcast the artificial manure over
the area to be planted instead of placing
it in the furrows, lo avoid any danger of
burning the shoots.
As the boxes on the lower platform are
emptied they are replaced with those on
the higher one. The empties ai’e then
deposited on the headlands, from where they
can be gathered later. A good farm horse
can be 'trained to travel at a suitable pace,
and the advantage of having no seed to
Carry lightens and quickens the work.
GERMINATION OF MANGEL SEED.
“Tenrag”: Experiments carried out. at
Canterbury College, Lincoln (M.L.), have
proved that the treatment of mangel seed
with sulphuric acid hastens its germination.
In parts of Maoriland and Australia where
the soil is dry germination of mangel seed
often takes two weeks. With ordinary
seed slow germination results in losses, as
the soil cakes and hampers the growth or
destroys it.
This year over 1001 b. of seed was treated
for farmers and used at the college, cost of
treatment being Is. per lb. Mange] seed is
normally worth 3s. a lb., and to ensure a
(Continued on newt page.)


ms
m 9
• C
i
W(Va
Ax
M
K I
Never stiff or tight
Complete foot-ease is guaran-
teed with this handsome Abbey
Boot, soled with the hardest-
wearing leather available. It is
cut down slightly at back of
ankle and so doesn’t bulge, but
fits more comfortably. The
upper follows the natural curve
of the instep arch. It is shaped
to avoid any tightness when
laced.
Order by post
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in both full and half
sizes. Specify width when ordering,
and ask, also, for the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin) or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN CALF 43/6
BLACK CALF . . . . 43/6
PATENT LEATHER . . 52/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY".
PPL 308
:::
6
the
For
MADE IN
ENGLAND
•Swan' Pens Black and Coloured from 20/--
•Swan' Minors from 15/-, 'Blackbird' Pent
from 10/-. 'Swan' Ink from 6d. per bottle.
&WAN
“ PINS
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.l.
Factories : London & Liverpool,
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Patents.
PROCESS FOR PREVENTING INCRUS-
TATION AND CORROSION IN WATER
PIPES AND THE LIKE.
r TTIE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 22872/29 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a licence to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hasse]
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
D
U
L
.. IV' v? .
REGD. TRADE MARK
THE MIRACLE FINISH
Not a paint, varnish, lacquer
or enamel .... An entirely
new finish for all types of
surfaces backed by the repu-
tation of one of the finest
research and control labora-
tories in the world. Learn
how DULUX FINISH can
reduce maintenance costs,
give increased protection and
save money for you. Infor-
mation without obligation.
Obtainable from principal Oil and Colour
Merchants in all States
British Australian Lead
Manufacturers Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE SYDNEY ADELAIDE
ẅ
ANOTHER USEFUL
CHRISTMAS PRESENT.
“The Lighter that Lights.”
The THORENS AUTOMATIC LIGHTER is excep-
tionally well built and well finished. All parts
replaceable and all working parts completely enclosed.
Container for 2 spare flints. Safety locking device.
Ivey chain ring. Uses ordinary motor spirit. Length,
2} inches. Width. If inches. Nickel-plated.
PRICE 12/6, post free
Selected by us for the smoker who likes a good article.
Dept. 12, AUSTRALIAN MAIL ORDERS,
Box 3504 RR, G.P.0., Sydney.
The Expert
View
Che n.z. Referee
THE NATIONAL SPORTING
WEEKLY.
The week’s activities in Racing,
Trotting, Horse Breeding, Boxing,
Wrestling, Rugby, Soccer, League,
Coursing and Racing are
reviewed in each issue by expert
writers.
Exclusive features in the “Referee
are a National Kennel section, a
Sportsman’s Radio Log giving the
week’s Sports Schedule on the air,
and the Racing and Trotting Guide
to Form.
Year in and year out the
“Referee" leads the way in
Racing and Trotting Selections.
Prove it for yourself.
Australian, Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
Head Office:
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
GOOD information about newspapers can be
got from travellers. For instance, a dentist
who has been all round the Western interior of
N S. Wales recently has been telling people how
he found “The Barrier Miner” everywhere on
his tour —at every station and homestead. Of
course, that’s no news to most of us, but it is
interesting to be reminded of it now and then.
“The Barrier Miner” has been published at
Broken Hill twice or more every day for the
p ast 44 years, so it is no stranger at any out-
back place in this State, in the real Far West.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
v’our fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
good strike farmers sow up to 61b. to the
acre. With treated seed, a smaller quantity
per acre suffices. The seed is treated for about
an hour in very strong acid, and then washed
in ammonia and dried again. The result
is a smaller seed with the husk removed
and the discs covering each of the tree sec-
tions somewhat loosened. Further experi-
ments are being carried out on seed of con-
struction similar to that of the mangel.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from ServiDepartment.)
(1) How can I destroy a large antbed in
a horse’s exercise-yard? (2) Is the plant
Patterson’s curse poisonous to stock? (3)
Method of eradication? —2969.
(1) Pour one cupful of carbon bisulphide
down each entrance hole, and cover eacn
hole with a spadeful of mud to keep in the
fumesr These fumes are highly inflammable.
(2) No, but it is only eaten by stock in
its young state. (3) Hoeing the plants up
and preventing seeding will eventually eradi-
cate the plant. Land, if possible, should be
kept under cultivation until all the seed in
the soil is exhausted.
(L) Which is the best mixed-farming dis-
trict in M.L. and the nearest township to
it? (2) What is the value of the Australian
pound in M.L., and where can it be
exchanged? —26ss.
(1) There is good mixed-farming land in
every province in M.L. For cereals and
potatoes the Lincoln district, Caiftcrbury, is
as good as any. It is within 15 miles of the
city of Christchurch and port of Lyttelton. If
dairying is to be the main line, the Palmer-
ston North district, in Wellington Province,
is excellent. (2) About 17s. (id. Exchange
can be made through any bank.
(1) How is lime-water prepared for calves,
and. what good does it do them? (2) Recipe
for meal to be mixed with fresh milk for
calf -raising ? —2988.
(1) Add half a bag of slaked lime to a
cask of rain-water. Stir well with a clean
stick. When allowed to settle it forms a
clear, colorless and odorless liquid. In addi-
tion to its value in food as a mineral con-
stituent, it acts as a corrective and antacid.
It renders curd in milk less dense and more
digestible. (2) Calf jelly is given when the
milk fed to a young calf is being changed
from whole to separated milk. To make
this take crushed linseed 31b., pollard 21b.,
and stir well into 4 gallons of water. Heat
to boiling point and boil for 20 minutes.
When cool this forms a jelly.
a) What charges cause the difference
in the London price of butter and the local-
price of butter-fat? (2) What were the
charges when butter-fat was more than it
is now, say 2s. per lb.? (3) How much
butter does lib. of butter-fat make? —3039.
(1) Freight, landing and selling costs
as deductions ; bounty and exchange as addi-
tions. (2) This would be influenced by the
variation in the rate of exchange and
bounty. (3) Approximately 1 l-51b.
Method of tanning hides white and time
taken in process? —3o24.
Soak the hides in clean water for four
hours, then run off dirty w'ater and cover
with clean water; leave for 24 hours. This
should be sufficient for fresh or salted hides.
Dry hides should be soaked for a further
24 hours, or until they are soft. Remove
hair by soaking hides in milk of lime —301 b.
lime per lOOgal. water. Handle each day,
and leave until hair can be removed. Time,
six to seven days in summer. Wash well
with a lot of water after removing the hair
and pieces of flesh, fat, etc. Tan in solu-
tion of alum lib., salt jib., per gallon of
water. Drain well, but do not wash; then
cover both sides with fish or neatsfoot oil
and hang up and allow to dry slowly. When
dry, stretch until soft. If dry skins are diffi-
cult to stretch, sprinkle with water and
cover up for two days; then again stretch
and dry. Use sufficient liquor to cover the
hides, and leave them for seven days in the
alum solution, lifting and draining each day.
Method of waterproofing a 15 os. duck tar-
paulin for farm use? —3007.
Dip the tarpaulin in water, and hang up
to drain. When all water has dripped out,
but while still damp, spread out smoothly,
and coat with waterproofing, to make which
set one quart boiled linseed oil in a tin on
a stove to become hot, and stir into it 4oz.
of common yellow soap shredded and dis-
solved to a jelly in hot water. Stir well
together, and paint on to the damp tarpaulin
while hot. Allow to become thoroughly dry,
then give a second coat of the same mix-
ture ; and when dry again give a third coat.
Process for making unfermented wine
from small fruits?* —2930.
Pick fresh, quite ripe fruits, discard any
imperfect ones, and wash well. Drain off
all water, and set in a preserving-pan with
1 pint water for every 3 quarts fruit. Cook
slowly for about half an hour, till all the
fruits ai’e burst, then drain through a jelly-
bag. Measure the juice, add fib. sugar to
every quart, and boil for five minutes.
Skim, pour into hot sterilised bottles, cork
with new, sterilised, dry corks, and seal
with wax. Store in a cool, dark place.
Recipe for “No Time ” bread? —2839.
Two pounds flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2oz.
butter, 1 tablespoon baking-powder, 1 pint
milk or milk and water. Sift dry ingredi-
ents together, rub in butter, and mix to a
firm dough with the liquid. Divide into
portions, and bake at once in a hot oven.
(1) What does tansy consist of? (2)
Its uses? (3) Where grown, and can it be
grown in Australia? (4) Where can seeds
be obtained? —2878.
(1) It contains a volatile oil, tannic acid,
gum and tanacetic acid. (2) Leaves dried
and made into a tea by infusion produce an
aromatic bitter tonic. The oil of tansy is
used as a vermifuge. The young leaves are
used by some cooks in England to give flavor
to puddings, omelets, etc. (3) It is a
familiar herb in English gardens. It could
be grown in any of the cooler districts of
Australia. (4) Not usually catalogued in
Australia. Any seed firm could procure
you some from England.
(1) Average yield of potatoes per acre
in the Castle Hill (N.8.W0 district? (2)
What should I pay per bag or P er ncrc t°
have them dug? —27l7.
(1) Not more than three tons per acre
as a general rule, but ■with the season experi-
enced this year and a forward crop, a yield
of five tons would not be excessive, provided
a good strain of seed was planted. (2) In
crops of this standard it should be possible
to obtain diggers at Is. per bag. The crop
is usually marketed in three-bushel bags,
which must be branded according to regula-
tions, obtainable from the Government
Printer, Phillip-street, Sydney, 3d. It is
wise to consult the selling agent, as he may
favor putting up in sugar-bags or even cases,
as many of the new potatoes in the metro-
politan area are marketed in this manner.
(1) How can I learn bee-keeping? (21
Is it possible for a person ignorant of the
business to manage successfully? —293l.
(1) Best way is to put in a season’s work
as a learner with a competent apiarist,
studying available Australian literature on
bee-culture at the same time. Another plan
on which' many succeed is to make a study
of bees from books, and purchase a couple
of small colonies from a reliable source,
building up the apiary as knowledge is
gained. (2) No. A good knowledge of the
work is essential.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“4BC”: It pays to take those wool-blind
sheep off periodically—six or nine months
after shearing.—and wig them. Wig them
thoroughly too —across the forehead, well
down the neck and back behind the ear.
Cull those that grow the wrinkle under the
eye.
“Gres”: Wash' the saddle-cloth in boiling
water with washing soda and soap-suds, and
rinse in water to which is added a little dis-
infectant. This is important in summer;
done once a month, it will obviate many sore
backs.
“Narran River”: “Mulyan’s” pen trap
for rabbits (B. 2/11/’32) is good, but a
more effective one is shaped like a capital
C. The netting is in one piece, attached
to the netting fence, and then bent at. a
very acute angle, the apex being just wide
enough to allow a rabbit to negotiate it.
Cut the mesh next to the ground at the very
apex, and turn the ends of the wire inwards;
then bring the netting round. Do the same
at the other end if a double-ender is re-
quired. It is safest to “roof” the apex, and
a few light green bushes in the centre of
the pen will keep the rabbits quiet till killed.
“Minthall”: To farmers growing vege-
tables for sale a packing and storing shed
is an asset. No need for anything elabor-
ate —slabs or old sleepers make ideal walls
and the floor may be of well-packed earth.
There should be a gable roof with tie
beams across—-handy for storing on—doors
and windows opening to the north, and a
lean-to verandah, high enough to run cart
or truck under. Benches (about 4ft. high
and the same width) are best made with
2in. x Sin. planed battens, spaced an inch
apart. A few sets of rough trestles and
frames, made with battens and covered with
fine mesh netting, are needed for drying
and cleaning off peas and beans.
“Gardener”: A near-by N.S.W. farmer
specialises in root vegetables—parsnips, car-
rots and long beet. After drilling his bed
he goes along with a sharp-pointed crowbar
and works a deep hole, dribbling in soft soil,
and allowing two seeds per hole. Generally
one is weeded out. He grows stuff 18in.
to 20in. long in a stiff soil that, unaided,
grows only stumpy-forked lines. It’s a bit
more time, but it pays.
“Deejay” : To grow potatoes in tight soil,
open a deep trench and fill it with garden
rubbish, dry grass or waste hay. Place a
layer or two of soil on this, set your seed
and build the trench up, cone-shaped, with
the remaining soil. I have grown tip-top
tubers this way.
‘Tcna”: Often calving heifers will kick,
and ill-treatment may make them outlaw's.
They should be treated gently and examined
to see _if teats are sore; then water
and a little feed with salt should be placed
near their heads. Thus handled, they will
let the milk down freely. Most weil-bred
cows are nervy and easily upset. That is
why women mostly succeed better with them
at first.
“Dimon”: The head of a rusted bolt is
often screwed off or damaged in the effort
to remove the nut. If the bolt is heated in
the fire, then dipped in water or tallow, the
nut will screw' off easily.
“W.J.W.”: If you are harvesting, a thin
crop and prospects of a burn are poor, try
dragging a pole, the width of the cut, cross-
wise behind the machine. The fire will
follow through the beaten-down straw more
readily than through standing stubble.
“Yowrie”: Where stone is obtainable, a
pavement suitable for bailing-up yards,
ramps leading down from bails and up to
shearing-floors, gateways and paths about
premises can be made this way. Fix side
boards, as in concreting; then, beginning at
bottom end, bed in stones which have a
flat enough side, leaning up against each
other, and levelling with a straight edge.
Break up stones which have no flat face, and
fill the interstices. Then mix clean sand
with cement into a thin grouting, and pour
into the remaining interstices, leaving an
inch or two on top to be trow'elled off with
a stronger and drier cement —say 4 or 5 to
I—made1 —made with a fine sand. Working thus
one can lay 20 square yards of everlasting
pavement to each bag of cement.
“Gres”: Collect all the old bolts from dis-
used gates, etc., next wet day and save
buying new' ones. Can’t get - the rusted
nuts off? Throw them in the fire for
a while, tap with a hammer when they’re
cool again, and with a vyce you’ll do it.
Then grease the threads, replace nuts, and
put them where you can find them when
W'anted.
“McNoon.”; Should herd-test results be
published in newspapers? I think not.
Amongst dairy-farmers, as in other sections
of the community, there are people w'ho
thirst for limelight, and some of them are
not above resorting to —er —smart practices
w'liich increase the butter-fat production on
testing days. Others, just as anxious for
publicity, but more scrupulous, will, on find-
ing their herds not placed among the first
half-dozen, withdraw, and thus weaken the
unit.


HOTEL
METROPQIE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
£■ “
ŵ
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed— think of
SCHUTE,
BELL & Cut*
if you have
Wool & Skins
Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ẁ
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection arid rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell’’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Youth (17), Vic., wants job on station.—3o3s.
Gentleman, Sydney, wants position as accountant
or salesman; knowledge typing- and shorthand. —3022.
Young lady, Q’land, used to home life, seeks
position as companion. Kefs. —3004.
Married man (28), N.S.W., 10 years’ exp. in sheep
and wheat, capable of taking- charge, or will work
on shares, wants employment anywhere. Refs. —3036.
To buy “Hits, Skits and Jingles.”—3o62.
Words of “Maloney’s Cockatoo,” “The. Stockman’s
Tale” and “The Riding of the Rebel.” —3063.
To buy illustrated A.I.F. book “From October,
1917, to End of War.”—3o6o.
To buy MacMillan’s “Tropical Gardening.”—3oBs.
Information Sought.
Ii General Von Mackensen of British
extraction ,* —2850.
There is no evidence that he is. Llis
father was a landholder in East Prussia.
The name seems to come from North
Germany, where the ending “sen,” equivalent
to the English “son,” is very common.
I understand that Norman Lindsay, while
in America, sold a hook of 'pen and ink
drawings to a Chicago publisher. Has the
book been published yet? —>Bol2.
A contract was made for such a book,
and the drawings are at present in the
possession of the Argus Book Shop,
Chicago. Publication is held up because the
reproductions do not please Mr. Lindsay,
and also because he has not written a com-
ment on the outlook of the designs which
the publisher thinks will help the book. He
intends to do that shortly.
(1) Is it compulsory in Queensland for
n person on coming of age to be immedi-
ately enrolled, or only just before an elec-
tion? (2) What procedure must be followed
to claim enrolment? (3) Jlow long must
one be resident in a place before one is
able to enrol? —2983.
(1) Immediate enrolment is compulsory.
(2) Obtain a State, electoral claim form
from any electoral registrar or police
station, fill in, and forward to the State
electoral registrar for the district. (3)
Six months’ residence in Q’land and three
months’ continuous residence in an electoral
district. A bill is at present before the
Legislative Assembly amending this provi-
sion to six months in the Commonwealth,
three months in Q’land, and one mouth in
an electoral district.
How can scenery and stage curtains be
rendered fire-proof? —3o66.
Treat with 4 parts borax. 4 parts potash,
to 100 parts of boiling water; stir in 100
parts silicate of soda. Keep hot until all
is dissolved, then add enough' ' working glue
size to bind it and thin with a little water.
Break up enough whiting in it to render
it opaque and use the same as ordinary
priming. Set pieces should be coated on
both sides, including the frame.
I am joining a trading expedition to the
Islands, and intend to make pictorial notes
of costume detail, unusual flora, etc. (1)
Are wash drawings practicable in such cir-
cumstances? (2) What materials are re-
commended? They must pack into a small
space and have little weight. — : 3o7l.
(1) Yes. (2) Black non-waterproof stick
ink or black-water color pigment in pans
which can be kept moist with a little glycer-
ine. A red sable water-color brush, No. 6,
two or three finer ones, and a large wrash-
brush. Whatman’s cold press water-color
paper with a fairly rough tooth, bound into
a sketch-book of a convenient size, to be
carried in a coat pocket. Two or three stiff
illustrator's boards. Tlu-sc can be packed
flat, and carried for occasions the sketch-
book will be too small for. Hard and soft-
pencils, conte pencils, and a box of colored
wax crayons to add color notes to the
sketches when necessary; a small sponge
and a thick pad of clean white blotting-
paper. Any sort of white dinner-plate can
bo used as a palette.
(1) Principal air routes in Australia on
which mails and passengers are (a) subsi-
dised by the Commonwealth Government and
(b) not subsidised? (2) Are there any regu-
lar air services operating between Australia
and other countries? (3) Has any attempt
been made to establish a speed record be-
tween Australia and Asia? (4) Where
can I get a timetable covering all air routes
in A ustraMa ? —2632.
(1) (a) Perth to Wyndliam (2067 miles)
and Perth to Adelaide (1453 miles), both
operated by W. A. Airways, Ltd.; Brisbane
to Camooweal and Norman ton (1484 miles),
operated by Queensland and N. T. Aerial
Services ; Camooweal to Daly Waters (475
miles), operated by Larkin Aircraft Supply
Co.; Daly Waters to Birdum (50 miles),
operated by Queensland and N. T. Aerial
Services. (ft) Brisbane to Sydney (500
miles), operated by New England Airways;
Launceston to Flinders Island (120 miles),
operated by Tasmanian Aerial Services. (2)
No. (3) No. A. M. Loew flew from Wynd-
ham to Shanghai in five days, in a Lock-
heed-Orion ■’plane, but he was not hurrying.
His flying time was about 30 hours. .T. A.
Mollison's time from Wyndham to Calcutta
was approximately three and a half days.
(4) There is no comprehensive schedule.
Timetables of routes are obtainable on
application to the companies operating the
individual services.
(1) What methods arc. employed by
modern salvage cos. in raising bullion , etc.,
from sunken ships? (2) What is the most
costly feature of such work? (31 What,
is the limit of depth, and does the condition
of the sea-floor affect the problem? (4)
On what terms, financially, are searches
usually undertaken? (5) In reports of a
new diving dress tested in Sydney a few
weeks ago it is suggested there is no limit
to the depth the diver can descend, yet
photographs show lie wears the ordinary
rubber dress. Wouldn’t pressure kill him
at, say, 300 ft. ?—3074.
(1) .11 el hod most in favor for depths
below about 120 ft. seems to be the use of
a diving bell, equipped with powerful search-
light. An observer in the bell directs the
application of grabs and the placing oi
charges of explosive. (2) Most _ costly
feature of such'searches, as a rule, is find-
ing the wreck. The Italian co. that sal-
vaged the Egypt’s bullion worked, at inter-
vals for a couple of years to find the hull.
(3)’The Egypt, lay in 400 ft. of water on a
rocky bottom. The hull was located by tow-
ing a loop of hawser, high enough to clear
rocks, deep enough to catch the hull. (4)
In the case of the Egypt the terms were
“no salvage, no pay.” (5) Can’t say, as
the principle lias not been disclosed. The
fact that water pressure is an important
factor to be reckoned with' is shown by the
development in recent years of armored div-
ing dresses, jointed on ball-bearings. Possibly
the Sydney co. lias the use of such devices
in prospect for great depths.
How to cure a cockatoo of the habit of
picking out his feathers? The bird is fed
on sunflower seed and parrot food. —3014.
Stop giving the bird sunflower seed or
oats. It should be fed on cracked corn and
wheat, with fruit, lettuce, and radio-malt,
spread on bread.
(11 Is the original movie film photo-
graphed in the negative as in ordinary photo-
graphy? (2) is a positive film used to
project on to the screen? —2935.
Process is exactly the same as in any
other sort of photography. The film exposed
in the camera develops as a negative, from
which positive films are made for projec-
tion.
(1) Is a girl allowed to have her full
training for a nurse in Queensland in a
, children’s hospital? (2) What is the age
limit? (3) When training for obstetrics, is
there a salary? —2BB9.
(1) No. (2) No limit, but trainees must
be 21 before being eligible for final regis-
tration. (3) Yes, 7s. 6d. per week.
Assuming that, the best method of getting
rid of mosquitoes is to spray stagnant water
with kerosene, (1) how often should it be
done? (2) What period elapses from the
laying of the egg until the mosquito takes
wing? (3) How long do mosquitoes
live? (4) How far do they travel from
their home? —2914.
(1) Once a week during summer. It
two parts of castor oil are mixed with 100
parts of kerosene the surface film lasts longer
and spreads better. (2), (3) and (4) The
complete life history is about 14 days. The
male mosquito lives only a few days, the
female for weeks. Usually they do not fly
very far, but they may be carried by the
wind for miles, or they may be distributed
gradually from their first breeding ground
if there are favorable pools in which to live.
See ‘ Mosquitoes: How to Get Rid of Them,’
issued by the Board of Health, N.S.W.
What was the ease of cannibalism for which
two white men were sentenced to impris-
onment in England in the SO’s? It> followed,
I think, the wreck of an English yacht? —
3001.
The Mignonette, a yacht bound from
Southampton for Australia, foundered during
a gale on July 5, 1884, when 1600 miles
from Cape Agulhas. Three men and a boy
escaped in a boat without provisions. The
proposed killing of one of the survivors by
lot was rejected by a seaman named
Brooks. The boy (Richard Parker), how-
ever. was killed by tile captain (Thomas
Dudley) and eaten, 20 days after the found-
ering. On the 24th day the men were
picked up by the Montezuma a .German
barque, and carried to Falmouth. .Dudley
and the mate (Edwin Stephens) were tried
for murder and sentenced to death, but were
reprieved and imprisoned for six. months, ns
the boy was dying when they killed him.
'How can I rid my flower plants of
stick” grubs? —3olo.
Spray with weak Black Deaf 40, and
afterwards go over the plants and pick ott
the pest, which will wilt under the treat-
ment. Decorative leaf-plants should be
sprayed with clean water a short while
after the spraying.
Jlo v: to grow flowering gums from seed?
—2900. ' . „
Put the seed pods or nuts on a sheet ot
paper, or in a shallow tray in. the sun, and
wait until they burst or open sufficiently
to allow the. seed to be shaken out. Sow
this at ouce, the seed’s own depth, m a
pot or pan, well drained, in sandy soil.
See that the soil surface does not become
too dry or too wet. When the seedlings
have made two sets of leaves, transplant
into small pots in sandy soil that will not
cake or bake, and when six inches high they
can be planted where you want them to
grow.
Mg pup, three months old. healthy and
free from vermin, is continually scratching
himself. He is washed once a week with
dog soap. What’s wrong, and the cure ? —
281 S. _
Probably due to wrong diet, heed him
onlv twice a day on raw meat and very
little porridge, potatoes or other starchy
foods. Wash once a week in a solution of
potassa* sulphurata loz. to a gallon ol
water. Cease using dog soap.
(1) How much would £lOO Australian,
amount to if transferred to Japan? (2)
Mow much if transferred to China? (3)
Or, if £lOO Australian were transferred first
to England, and then to China or Japan,
would one be able to avoid the 2b p.c.
exchange? —2992.
(1) The usual method of transfer of £lOO
in Australian currency to Japan would be
to purchase a sterling draft drawn on a
Japanese bank. At the present rate of
exchange, £lOO Australian would purchase
a sterling draft for £79 15s. 2d. The amount
realised in Japanese currency would depend
oil the rate of exchange, offered by pur-
chasers of sterling in Japan on the day of
negotiation. (2) The same applies to China.
(3) No.
On what grounds does the United Aus-
tralia party flavor the retention of capital
punishmen t ?—2868.
The party has not made any pronounce-
ment as to its views on the subject, nor has
it laid down any policy in regard thereto.
What are sumptuary laws? —2960.
Sumptuary laws or regulations were such
as restrained or limited the expenses of citi-
zens in wearing apparel, equipages, the
pleasures of flic table, furniture, etc. Such
laws in former times were frequently enacted
both in England and in Scotland, but have
been in desuetude for centuries. Those of
England were repealed in 1601 by one of
the first Acts of the reign of James I.
(1) What is the outlook for the account-
ancy and auditing profession? (2) What
chance has a youth of 18, with six years of
farm, experience, of employment on a farm
or station in Southern Queensland or North-
ern N.S.W.? (3) Wages? —2s96.
(1) In common with people of other
trades and professions, accountants and
auditors are having a lean time, but when
things are normal the profession offers
worthwhile opportunit.es for good men. (2)
Should stand a fair chance with the
approach of harvest. (3) No fixed rate.
(1) How to make a mercurial barometer?
(2) Where to procure necessary materials,
and approximate cost? (3) What allowance
in calibration should be made for height
above sea-level? ' (4) Would such an instru-
ment be accurate? —2943.
(1.) Obtain a glass tube 33in. long which
is sealed at one end, and thoroughly clean
and dry on the inside. Introduce clean
mercury by means of a tapered glass tube,
the small end of which has a considerably
smaller diameter than the inside boro of
the barometer tube. When filled, invert and
heat in sand tray to expel air or water
vapor, then immerse open end in cistern of
mercury and bring the tube to a perpendicu-
lar position With cistern fixed at the base.
(2) E. Esdaile and Son. Sydney, or simi-
lar firms in Brisbane. Cost, of tube about
2s. 6d., and £lb. mercury about 4s. (3)
It would be better, not to calibrate the
instrument, but to measure the height of
the mercury column from the top surface
of mercury in the cistern at each reading.
(4) Accuracy depends on care taken in
construction.
Information Supplied.
2659. —A rabbit decoy whistle is made of
a thin pliable metal strip 2in. long and
1 Jin. wide. Double the strip over a thin
wire or nail, leaving the lips slightly open,
round off the edges, and centrally punch
a small hole through both flaps. Much
practice upon the instrument is needed
before the whine of a rabbit in distress
can be faithfully imitated. —“Pick.”
Does Anybody Know?
How to build a pair of water skis? —30S1.
Brief Answers.
E.S.: Crain’s “American Youth and the
Liquor Problem” (2s. 6d.) ; Binkley’s “Responsible
Drinking” (245.) ; Passe’s “Bankers and Bootleggers”
(125.) ; and Barbican’s “Confessions of a Rum-
runner” (245.) ... .C.J.C.: (1) No. (2) Apply for
copyright. A fee of ss. and a copy of the
work must accompany the application... .J.P.: Can't
explain the process in print without diagrams. A.
Forsyth and Co., 339 Kent-street, Sydney, are pre-
pared to send an expert to do the job, and no doubt
you could pick up sufficient information from him
to carry on yourself afterwards.... Ritchie: (1)
No quota, except in Vic., where 1000 ft. per pro-
gramme, British or Australian, is stipulated. (2)
5 p.c. (3) Local censors everywhere. (4) No
quota; few shown. (5) (<i) British International
Pictures, British Dominion Films, Radio Corporation
Pictures, Twickenham Pictures, British Lion and
Gainsborough, (ft) Gaumont Productions, about 45
per cent, shares held by Fox Films, U.S.A
L.M.: Swiss products. Sydney retailers say they’re out
of stodkY.. .P.H.E.: The songs sung by Gene Gerrard
in “Let’s Love and Laugh” include “Gipsy Fancies,”
“My Share of Love” and “The ABC of Ixive”.. .A.J.:
Get Bulletin on “Grass-tree Resin,” 7d. posted, from
Technological Museum, Sydney. .. .A.8.N.: Sec
Bulletin No. 12, “Tung Oil from Australian-grown
Trees,” issued by Technological Museum, Sydney, Is.
Id. posted. Director gives additional information.. . .
JJLD.: Having placed the estate in the hands of
the Public Trustee, your duties and powers have come
to an end and the Trustee may exercise his dis-
cretion without reference to y0u.... R.R.: See
Stewart’s “Heat Treatment of Steel,” obtainable
from H. P. Gregory and Co., 74 Clarence-street,
Sydney. See also “The Engineers’ Year-Book” and
Ilarbord’s “Metallurgy of Steel” at N.S.W. Public
Library, Sydney.... Hiatus; Mathematically, at £2
10s., 27| years; at £3, 20$ years, allowing quarterly
rests for interest. The bank’s computation may be
slightly different. You will have to notify the bank
of your intention to draw periodically upon the
deposit. ... V.L.E.: Ferrier and Dickinson, Ltd., 20
Clarence-street, who are the sole agents in Australia
for monel metal, or Poldi Steel Co., 343 Sussox-
street —both Sydney N.A.W.: Cannot trace any
agents for the system A.T.8.: The naming of
localities in N.S.W. is ordinarily the function of
the Lands Department, which consults with other
State and Federal bodies where circumstances require.
J.E.; The Shell Co. is answering you direct....
D.V.S.: Write N.S.W. Agriculture Dept., Sydney, for
free leaflet, “White Ants” W.A.T.: The price you
are paying suggests you arc using crude fish oil and
not shark oil, which is sold at 4s. 6d. to 6s. per
gallon. Return of oil is dependent on species; up
to 15 gallons has been got from the liver of one
shark A.A.A.: You would have to write to
Lawn Tennis Assocs. in each of the capital cities....
W.E.D.; Car no longer on the market. ... M.S.H.:
Can’t trace it G.E.P.; Very little available. Only
chance is to keep in touch with authorised agents.
. ...H.8.: (1) Depends on sub-agent’s handling of
the business. In the majority of cases sub-agents
have no proprietary right. (2) 12$ p.c. com. on retail
prices. (3) It would be a very good sub-agency to
return £1 per week net out of papers... .D.M.8.; (1)
Submit particulars to any leading second-hand book-
seller. (2) Postage stamp dealers will furnish quota-
tions J.M.: Interview the Tobacco Expert, N.S.W.
Dept, of Agriculture. .. .A.F.; Can’t advise without
inspection. Consult a vet W.P.: (1) and (2)
Can find no record of the sort. (3) and (4) Several
did so in past years. The last was J. B. Hobbs
when playing with Chapman’s team of 1924-25. (5)
No record. (6) With Maclaren’s amateurs who toured
Australia and Maoriland 10 years ago, and with
the English XI captained by Gilligan in 1924-25.
. ...G.0.8.: No rule can ,be made retrospective
unless the fact is specially stated in the rule itself.
Players leaving a club under the conditions you
outline would certainly not be bound as far as past
happenings are concerned. You should ask for a
special general meeting of the association to clear
up the tangle R.U.8.: The preparation is un-
known in the trade.... Dilga: (1) Johnson was
counted out in the 26th round. (2) Moodie knocked
out Milligan in two minutes when they fought at
Glasgow on August 6, 1928.... J.A.S.: No Q’land
publication other than agents’ weekly reports.
“Weekly Dairy Produce Notes” from Empire Market-
ing Board, London, £1 p.a., post free, might be
helpful... .H.C.D.: Has no special value. The book
was turned out in hundreds... .A.S.D.: (1) Not
much opening in Vic. Better prospects in Govern-
ment employ in N. S. Wales. (2) One year at
Melbourne Uni. and four subsequent years at
Sydney Uni. (3) No scholarships obtainable
D. ; The prickle shark (Oxynotus) is entirely
covered with short spines; its curious angular body
is compressed, and sharply marked off from the
perfectly flat belly. It is allied to the dog-fishes
E. : The treatment is not yet recognised, its
chief drawback being that, whilst you can give a
man young ideas, you can’t provide him with a
voung heart to stand the strain of them.... D.M.L. ■
Place the facts before the N.S.W. Workers’ Compen-
sation Commission, Bridge-street, Sydney A.M.K.:
If you called on B to assist when the fence was
erected and h e refused or neglected, then he has no
right of part-ownership, and you may remove it
and erect it elsewhere. You should inform the
mortgagee of your intention... .L.A.S.: There is no
evidence that iodine treatment is successful in arth-
ritis. When there are bone and joint deformity and
changes, nothing can alter the condition, though
relief may be obtained in various ways H.S. •
The “personal clause” is a covenant by the mortgagor
to pay to the mortgagee the amount of the debt
irrespective of the security on which it is owing,
as if it were an ordinary unsecured debt. .. .F.S.U,:
Beasley’s “Pharmaceutical Formulas” could be
ordered from any leading bookseller, price 11s. 6d.
L.: Write N.R.M.A., 30 Grosvenor-street, Sydney.
....S.D.: Kiara means “white cockatoo”; Thirroul,
“a valley” ; Uambi, “pine scrub” ; and Doogan, “a
camp”... .H.N.: Write League of Nations Union, 32
Castlereagh;street, Sydney.... (Many others mailed.)


V/ N
CDPvmrfhfVj
Build New Energy for Business
Nerve strain and bad digestion—the penalty of overwork
and worry —can be soothed and overcome by Nestle’s
Malted Milk. Taken during the day or at bedtime it
builds up the system and ensures sound sleep.
MALTED MIL
*tESTLE’ s
tIT
NVtIOMT
ẅ
Bwjlheheslf
Australian
made
Super
Quality
1
a
2
Easy rolled—
no better sold
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Coolan Dhu, dam of Lilypond, winner, of
the Sydney Cup in 1925, and of Tangible,
second in 1928, gave the turf another service-
able neddy when she threw Balgay, by
Bachelor’s Persse. Balgay races in the colors
of J. J. Leahy, who owned Tangible. With
no public form to recommend him, the four-
year-old was neglected by punters for a divi-
sion of the Ivogarah Stakes at Moorefield,
and the bookmakers called 20 to I—in1 —in a field
of eight! The price firmed a few points
before the barrier rose and there was a bit
of tote money for him. Putting in a strong
finish, Balgay won nicely from Patiala (8
to 1) and Chrystal Tin (10 to 1) ; and he
won’t be neglected next time he starts, especi-
ally if it is over a middle distance —he looks
like one who could go a fair journey. Cher-
bourg shaped shockingly; and he was an
odds-on favorite.
Considering his comparatively short
period at the stud, Tippler has sired a re-
markable number of winners for Hunter
White, who has retained an interest in most
of them. Curagoa may not be a Catlimar or
a Dormid, but she is fast, as she showed in
the Juvenile Stakes, in which she left the
others standing. She is trained by Jamieson
for the A.J.C. committeeman and was ridden
by MeCarten. Byramjee, favorite at evens
—Curagoa was at 9 to 4 —could not get
a place.
Running Greensea out of his class has
done him no good. The big Greenstead geld-
ing returned to suburban company in the Fly-
ing Handicap at Moorefield, and went out at
5 to 4 in a field of 10, but was never a pos-
sibility after he missed the jump-out. Ford-
light (8 to 1) came into the straight with
what seemed a. lead which could not be
wrested from him, but he stopped when
tackled by Orpah (10 to 1), and was cut out
Gert’.'That new member plays a
<3OOO game')
Bert I ." Think so - ? his service isn't
too good*
GERT’/VoURE JEALOUS, Hes VERY x%
smart with his 6^k-hinders.
o>ert; "force op he useo
TO BE \ WAdTEPt * v
of third place by Pcponaise (4 to 1)- —the
only thing backed with any confidence against
Greensea. Orpah, an honest little Moabite
mare who keeps improving, was ridden a
clever race by O’Sullivan.
Don Moon’s victory in the Moorefield Han-
dicap does not say much for the horses lie
met. He carried top weight, 9st., and is
now in his eighth season on the turf. He
won the Doncaster at Easter, 1927, and had
done heaps of racing before that —the latS
Bailie, who owned and trained him, made a
habit of saddling him up twice a day. The
truth may be that a lot of horses who get
more notice than Booth’s ancient are raced
too little. There was no doubt about Don
Moon’s superiority; but Greenoak (second
favoi’ite at threes; Don Moon was favorite
at twos), made an interesting finish of it,
helped by Lovely Balloon and Wallace Mimi.
The last-named, as in other recent essays,
was doing his best work when the issue had
been decided.
Largely because of the unfashionable
jockey (Harvey) on top, backers of Mag-
netic for the Ilurstville Mile got twos in a
field of seven, Koda Pen —one of Jamieson’s
—being at 6 to 4. Magnetic won easily from
Koda Pen and Autumn Leaf, and is gallop-
ing better at seven years than at any pre-
vious stage of his career. Of course, he
hasn’t done half as much racing as Don
Moon.
* * x *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday :
Park Stakes: Samian King; next. Moun-
tain View.
Flying Handicap: Sweet Maggie; next,
Fordlight or Gay Ballerina.
Canterbury Handicap: Maurice Bede;
next, Wallace Mimi.
Highweight Handicap: Fordlight or Con-
fab; next, Poponaise.
Ashbury Handicap: Rogerson; next,
Servius.
* # ❖
Maurice Tate was personally conducted
by a V.A.T.G. official through the Caulfield
enclosures last Saturday. If the itch to
wager overcame the big-footed trundler it
is to be hoped he fared better than the
general body of punters, who. found picking
’mn difficult to the point of exasperation.
Rulanut, in the Ormond Stakes, was the
only absolute favorite to score. This Chief
Ruler colt on the previous Thursday had
captured the Cranbourne Cup. He then
was owned by W. R. Kemball, the ML.
sportsman, for whom George Jones trains.
On Saturday morning Rulanut was bought
by a woman patron of Frank Robinson’s
stable. Plunged on at the last moment,
he ousted Lancegay from favoritism and
vanquished My Talisman gamely. Jones
can be excused for having tired of the colt;
time after time, he declined to reproduce
his two-year-old form.
Karomin, who finished third in Rulanut’s
race, carried 9st. 91b., inclusive of 51b.
penalty for his victory in the Woodend Cup.
James Wilson bred Karomin at his Queens-
cliff stud, and sold the chestnut for 125gns.
as a three-year-old. In the past year Karo-
min has credited S. Masters, with numerous
stakes. He is a half-brother to Outlook,
for whom Wilson got 3000gns. after that
son of The Welkin had won the Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes and Champagne Stakes at
Randwick in 1918.
Guided by what they had seen at Wil-
liamstown, punters made Appledore a red-
hot favorite for the Kasouka Hurdle. Bob
Inkson got off Dark Dawn to ride Apple-
dore, replacing Tucker, to whom the mount
on Dark Dawn was entrusted at Caulfield.
Appledore failed to get nearer than fifth,
while Dark Dawn (9 to 2) scored, running
away from Trireme (12 to 1) and Chryso-
colla. The. Tara Steeplechase was a still
greater boil-over. Inkson weighed out for
Dongola, a stablemate of Dark Dawn. The
October gelding stifled a fence near the mile
post and dropped out of the hunt. Success
rested with Nunkumbil (15 to 1), who, like
Dark Dawn, was sired by All Black. Of
the dozen runners only one was at a longer
price than Nunkumbil; yet he literally
romped home in advance of Fred McCabe’s
Apellant and Prince of Samos, winner of
the steeplechase at Williamstown.
_ Some of the Melbourne juveniles are be-
ginning to feel the strain of their spring
efforts. Harry Freedman intended to send
L’Elite out for a spell, but he regarded the
Stansmore Two-year-old at Caulfield as easy
money, and N accordingly sent the Gay
Lotltario colt to the post for a final occasion.
Backers shared the trainer’s confidence, and
the closing price was 6 to 4. The race went
to Maid of Orleans (8 to 1), a filly held on
lease by Alan Lechte, a patron of Steve
Murphy’s stable; she is by Heroic from
Spearette. Second money went to Chief
Mate, a colt by Eastern Monarch from
Sayonara (imp.) by Valens. More will be
heard of Chief Mate in the near future.
He is raced by the breeder, J. P. Arthur,
who won the Metropolitan with Cragford,
another son of Eastern Monarch.
Lou Robertson staged a big surprise when
Cimbrian appropriated the V.R.C. Handi-
cap on November 5. He was responsible
for a further sensation at Caulfield in con-
nection with the Armadale Handicap, for
which King Colossus was backed down from
12 to 1 to half those odds, going out in
equal demand with Viol d’Amour, Mira
Donna and Celotex. If Celotex had not
worried him by disputing control for the
greater part of the journey King Colossus
might have won. Tiring towards the finish,
he lost by half a length to Viol d’Amour.
* * * *
“Hotham” Touching that Williamstown
handicap in which Golden Lullaby finished
first. Without waiting for the weight flag
to go up, the tote posted the dividends with
Golden Lullaby as winner. Many backers
of other horses threw away their tickets;
and then Golden Lullaby weighed in
light and was disqualified. Years ago
a similar happening in Brisbane nearly
ended in a riot, some of the owners
of discarded tickets pulling the palings off
the saddling paddock fence to emphasise
their dissatisfaction. On that occasion many
backers of the first horse had been paid before
the mistake was discovered and the tote
windows closed.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Tony Gora (12st.) has won a fight at
last. Bob Thornton (list. 61b.) knows
more about boxing than the man from Hono-
lulu, but he attacked rarely, whereas Gora
was nearly always aggressive. A nicely-
timed inside right knocked Thornton to a
knee in the third round, and another right
opened his left cheek-bone later; but this
punishment only made him more cautious.
He was still on his feet at the end of the
fifteenth round, when the referee pointed
to. Gora.
* :!: * *
“Mitt Shover”: Sydney is to have a
glimpse of Ron Richards, the abo. pug. All
liis fights in Queensland have been won —the
list includes a decisive victory over Tony
Gora —and most of them by the k.o. Richards
is to meet Ambrose Palmer at Sydney
Stadium on December 5, and Harold Baker,
one of the best judges of a boxer in Aus-
tralia, and now resident in Brisbane, is
confident he will beat the white boy.
* X X ' X
It was obvious at Leichhardt on Friday
that Walter Browning and George Penchiff
had never met before. With many rabbit-
killers, then a Boston crab, Browning gained
the first fall, but Penchiff made it level
pegging with a crucifix-hold. The Bulgarian
had Browning gripped in a short-arm
scissors through most of the sixth round. Lie
won on points, but the usual draw was declared
Racquet and Bawl
The N.S.W. tennis championships ended
on Saturday at Rushcutter Bay with a win
for the Americans in the men’s events. It
seemed likely that Crawford would reach
the final by beating Allison, but though he
carried the game to five sets he was outed
himself. It was announced that he was suf-
fering from a strained back, and this will
keep him out of the Australian team for the
first Test in' Brisbane. Allison and his com-
patriot Vines met in the final and Vines
had to go all out to beat his man, scores
being 4-6, 6-1, 2-6, 6-4, 7-5. It was great
tennis by both men. In the doubles final,
Allison and Van Ryn defeated Vines and
Gledhill, 7-5, 10-8, 6-4. Mrs. Crawford won
the women’s singles from Joan Hartigan,
and the latter, with Miss Bickerton, took the
women’s doubles.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: No sensible person
was surprised at the news that Vivian
McGrath was off color. Since the boy
emerged into, the limelight, the writer has
protested against his exploitation ,by concerns
hungry for gate-money. He has been dragged
all over the country without a respite for
months, and the wonder is that he was able
to show such staying power in his games
with the Americans. Fortunately a strained
muscle prevented him from taking part in
the N.S.W. championships; •otherwise he
might have been carried to the courts on
an ambulance stretcher.
Ins and Outs
„ 1 he opening stages of the match between
England and an Australian combination in
Melbourne resolved themselves into a dull
duel between batsmen and bowlers, with oc-ca-
smnal bright flashes. England dropped Ham-
mond, Jardine, Verity and Ames, and included
all tour fast bowlers. Larwood, Allen. Bowes
and Voce, in an evident attempt to find if
Bradman’s alleged susceptibility to speed
merchants is a fact. England’s 282 took
all day and a bit of another to make and
sent the crowd asleep, though Allen (48),
Leyland (38) and Brown (27) were fairly
bright. Sutcliffe played one of the most
wearisome innings of his career for 87. At no
time was the batting on top of the bowling.
Oxenham finished with the good average of
5 for 53 off 24 overs, and another good per-
formance was Ironmonger’s. The veteran
took only 2 for 90, but had everyone guessing.
Nash also did well with 3 for 39. The Aus-
tralian innings was little more enterprising,
save for a dashing 36 by Bradman, who went
l.b.w. to Larwood, as Woodfull (18) did to
Bowes. O’Brien collected 45 and Lee 28.
Stumps were drawn with 9 wickets down for
216. Larwood bowled with great pace and
hostility to take 4 for 52. Bowes had 3 for 68.
Australia added only two runs to the over-
night score, and England started the second
shot with 64 in hand. An extraordinary
debacle followed, the whole side going for
60. On a wicket with which there was
apparently nothing wrong, Lisle Nagel, the
Victorian fast-medium trundler, took 8 for
32, a performance almost unparalleled in
first-class cricket in Australia. At lunch he.
had six (Sutcliffe, Wyatt, Leyland, Allen,
Paynter and Larwood) for 21, three clean-
bowled. Oxenham secured the other two
wickets for 4 runs. Rain interrupted play
before the Australians, wanting 125, com-
menced batting.
* * *
“Trundler”: Bill O’Reilly followed up
his success against Vic. witli a grand show-
ing in Brisbane; on a pitch that gave him
little assistance he had the Bananalanders
(defeated by an innings and 274) guessing all
the time, and finished with 9 for 66. O’Reilly
has shown that he has the qualities that
make a really great bowler —length, spin,
stamina, courage and intelligence.
(Continued on page 30.)
“Toowong” : Once more the cream of Bris-
bane rowing men have been tow r elled up by
country oarsmen. The Wide Bay club from
Maryborough fell upon the Brisbaneite.s at
the championship regatta in Brisbane and
took the State champion fours, the senior
fours, the challenge fours (for rowers of
senior-junior status) and the maiden fours.
There were three other events on the pro-
gramme, but the countrymen mercifully
refrained from starting in them.
..* * * *
“C. 8.”: There are some pretty ancient
cars on the roads these hard times, but few
of them could equal this record for serv-
ice, held by a humble push-bike that still
forges along the streets of St. Kilda (Vic.).
Its owner has ridden it for 32 years, 48
weeks a year, and estimates its mileage
at 64,512.
* x * *
“Jolimount”: The Australian Rules Foot-
ball Council has fixed Sydney as the venue
for the triennial carnival next season. West-
ralia was the only objector, and that on the
ground of expense, but an attempt is to be
made to raise a special fund, and there is
no doubt the Sandgropers will toe the
scratch.
H* *!• ❖ i\i
“Long Dog”: “The poor man’s sport”
seems to be getting well into line with the
Red Hots and the Macaronis in the matter
of clever work. A witness in a case of grey-
hound-stealing at Parramatta, a breeder and
owner, confided that it was the practice to
dye young dogs that run well. He added re-
gretfully that he had dyed a dog himself, but
something went wrong with the stuff, and
the tyke came out a bright pink. Owners
of racing ponies have had equally painful
experiences.
❖ sj:
“Ball Race”: Every year British cyclists
hold a competition to decide who is the
best road-race rider of the year. It has
been won for the third time by F. W.
Southall, who was sixth in the Olympic
road race in California. Southall’s fastest
time for 50 miles was 2hr. 7min. 7see. and
for 100 miles 4hr. 36min. 20sec. In the 12
hours’ unpaced event he rode 233 f miles,
his average speed for the three events being
21.597 m.p.h. Southall’s time for the 50
and 100 are well behind those put up by
Lautwesser and Marshall, both English
riders, but the 12 hours’ unpaced beats
C. Rossiter’s world record by a mile and
three-quarters.


' --
$
I
H
mi
f
6
\
\
\
!p!
'the finest tyre
YOU CAN BUY
*T"HE FINEST TYRE you can buy is the Goodyear Tyre .... This
" is not an advertising claim .... It is the experienced judgment
of motor car owners all over Australia.
This judgment of Goodyears as the best tyre value finds expression
in the most convincing terms known. People do more than SAY
they prefer Goodyears. They buy them in preference to all others.
That is why it is true that “In Australia, as the world over, more
people ride on Goodyear Tyres than on any other tyre.”
Goodyear Tyres are made in Australia and are better today than
ever before. The famous All-Weather Tread is 10% thicker.
Punctures are less likely to happen with Goodyears. Mileage
averages 30% greater.
These are the things which make Goodyear Tyres best in the
experience of the public. And since Goodyears cost no more,
naturally they outsell any other tyre.
MORE PEOPLE RIDE ON
GOODYEAR TYRES THAN
ON ANY OTHER TYRE
BUILT WITH
CORD
Supertwist is exclusive to
Goodyear Tyres and as-
sures a carcass of superior
vitality and extra-long
wear


w
SEND
NOW
FOR
A COPY
OF OUR
NEW
CATALOG
No. 33.
ENTIRELY NEW/
The “TRITON” Vertical Plunger Pump
Those requiring a small, inexpensive, yet powerful
pump will find that the newly-designed “Triton”
measures up to requirements.
It is small—l9| inches high.
Low power required—£h.p. is ample.
500 r.p .m. gives 600 gallons per hour. Can be
operated at a higher or lower speed if desired, the
output varying accordingly.
Fitted for lin. suction and delivery pipes, and can be
supplied for Belt, Chain or Gear Drive.
Altogether the “Triton” is a splendid unit, needing
but little attention and is practically noiseless.
Its low price is also a decided advantage.
Full particulars and prices on request.
M-PliersoilS)
V Proprietary Limited v
51 Bathurst St. - - - - SYDNEY
582 Collins St. - - - MELBOURNE
116 Waymouth St. - - ADELAIDE
532 Murray St. PERTH
Wilkinson Safety Razor
5 IN
MADE IN ENGLAND.
Hoaow
GROUN
BUAO eS
EMPIRE MODELS.
Set.
E.7—Self-stropping Razor, complete with two
Hoi low-ground Blades and Strop, in
Oak Case 14/6
E.10 —-Same as E.7, with six Hollow-ground
Blades 18/0
E.21 —Highly-finished, Silverplated, Self-
stropping Razor, with six Hollow-ground
Blades and Shell Horsehide Strop, in
Solid Niekelplated Case, Oak-lined, 35/-
Obtainable at all Stores.
Wholesale Distributors:
E. H. CODLIS PTY., DTD.,
413 Eonsdale Street, Melbourne;
And 103 York Street, Sydney.
Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: C. T. B. Turner celebrated
his 70tli birthday in Sydney the other day.
Among cricketers it has always been a
matter for argument as to whether Spofforth
or “the Terror” was the greatest of spin-
bowlers. A perfect length, great pace off
the pitch, and a devastating off-break were
Turner’s assets, and he did some great
things with them. At Sydney Cricket
Ground against Shrewsbury’s 1887-88 team,
Turner took 14 wickets for 59, 11 clean
bowled. Among his victims was Arthur
Shrewsbury himself, whose stumps were hit
twice. Turner’s 101 Test wickets cost 16.53
runs apiece.
“Bumpk”: The perennial topic of bar-
racking was brought to the fore as soon as
the Englishmen set foot in Melbourne. In
reply to a reference by the Lud Mayor, P.
L. Warner delivered himself to the effect
that England and Australia were two great
cricketing Powers, that everything they did
was criticised, and therefore both had to
set an example. Was it quite dignified that
the greatest cricket match in the world be-
tween the two greatest cricketing Powers
should be interrupted? The answer to that
is that Australians don’t think a game is a
fit subject for pontifical language. Cricket
performed in the spirit of an Armistice Day
silence would be unbearable. The crowd
has usually a better attitude towards the
game than the players.
“B.”: At least one ray of sunshine illum-
ined the gloom induced in Melbourne by
Warner’s speech from the throne on the sub-
ject of local barracking. The English team
attended a perfoiunance of “The Gondoliers,”
and Ivan Menzies, an Englishman with a
sense of humor, seized the opportunity to
thank the visitors for refraining from bar-
racking his performance.
* t? *
“Hotham”: The match between England
and Victoria, which England won by an
innings and 83, had some unusual aspects.
In the Englishmen’s innings four batsmen
went 1.b.w., while Victoria lost a man in
each knock the same way. In the Victorians’
first innings, Allen and Voce bowled 20
no-balls; in the second, 3. Dragging over
the bowling crease was the trouble.
❖ * ❖ *
“Aunt Sally” : A lot of interest is being
taken in the appearance for N.S.W. against
England this week of “Young” Bill Howell,
since Papa Howell was one of the best
spin-bowlers Australia has produced.
“Young” Bill, who plays with Cumberland
in Sydney grade cricket, was a hope as a
fast bowler a season or so ago, but he has
since changed to his father’s style and has
this year proved very effective in district
cricket. Old Bill was first chosen against
Stoddart’s 1894-95 team as a batsman. He
was put on to bowl as a last resort, and
did So well that he became an institution in
the State side, and in 1899 proved a great
success with the ball in England, taking 117
wickets at 20.35.
“Five Ways”: The N.S.W. cricketers
recently in Brisbane struck an unusual
windfall. A local firm presented a ticket
in the Golden Casket lottery for every catch
taken, every man bowled, every century and
every sixer. Seventeen tickets were gathered
in by the team, the only man to miss being
McCabe, who scored 91. However, the
briefs are being pooled, so the Grenfell lad
will get his whack if there is any going.
v •!* "!• sJj
“Aigburth”: Writing of the arrival in
Melbourne of the English cricketers, the
correspondent of a Sydney paper wrote that
they wore the colors of the Marylebone C'.C.
—scarlet, gold and blue. The M.C.C. colors
are red and yellow, a devastating combina-
tion which clashes with the color scheme
of most cricketers privileged to wear it.
The tricolor mentioned is the livery of an
English Eleven going abroad under the
banner of the big St. John’s Wood club.
Racquet and Bawl
“Swan”: The Westralian tennis authori-
ties resent the sudden determination of the
Australian Council to cancel the scheduled
trip to Perth by the Americans. They had
gone to a lot of expense, and, with a Test
match to stage in addition to one with the
State, visualised badly-needed profits. They
are recalling that the three Japanese
who toured the Commonwealth last year
cheerfully tackled a long and heavy pro-
gramme, including the journey the Ameri-
cans have jibbed at.
“Laudator”: In other days people were
able to play games and indulge in sport
generally without incurring any damage that
amounted to anything. Now when a bowler
rubs a bit of skin off his toe—l am thinking
of Larwood in Adelaide —he is immediately
taken off and sent to the pavilion; and the
same is true of other sports. I never hoard
of Tony Wilding, Brookes or Tilden com-
plaining that strains or something of the
sort were preventing their playing up to
form. At time of writing, Vines, McGrath
and Crawford among the tennis players are
all bemoaning minor casualties. Of the
cricketers, Ponsford, Grimmett and several
of the Englishmen are nursing more or less
serious injuries. Indeed, if a man gets his
finger barked to-day he goes off and a sub-
stitute fields in his place. One never heard
of that sort of thing in the past. I can
recall one wicket-keeper who sustained a
compound fracture of the thumb. He tied
it up with his handkerchief and finished the
innings.
* * * *
“Moron”: One of those quaint incidents
that only crop up in tennis occurred at
Rushcutter Bay during the N.S.W. tennis
championships, in a match between Mrs.
Van Ryn and Mrs. Utz. The latter hit a
high ball which landed just outside the line.
Mrs. Van Ryn was between the unhappy
official and the ball, with the result that
he gave it a let. Subsequently he found
WELL ON HIS GAME.
VISITOR: “Where can I find Mr. Mugg?”
GOLFER : “He was playing from the first tee an hour ago, so he should be near the
green by now!”
it necessary to correct a wrong decision in
favor of the Australian playbr. The Ameri-
can lost that game, and asked for a new
ump. The abashed official saved the situ-
ation by retiring.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: An amazing golf fluke
was perpetrated in Sydney a few days ago,
the scene being Manly links. A player in
a chemists’ tournament sliced a tee shot.
Travelling 100 yards or so, the ball hit a
pipe in the mouth of another player at the
sixth hole, and then disappeared. The search
was abandoned. The man at the ninth hole
put his hand in his coat pocket, and there
located the pill, which had broken his pipe.
* Ijs * *
“Hutt” : A. ,T. Shaw, winner of the Maori-
land open golf championship (B. 16/11/’B2),
did not rest content with that, but went on
to clinch his hold on the professional title.
He first won this in 1928, and took it
again in 1929-31-32. The amateur cham-
pionship, played for at the same meeting,
was retained by Rana Wagg, who beat T.
11. Horton 1 up at the 87th. Both men
are well known on this side of the Tasman,
having been members of the last Maoriland
Kirk-Windeyer ,Cup team. A. D. S. Dun-
can got as far as the semi-finals, where he
was knocked out by Wagg.
❖ * * *
“Sandringham”: One reason why Vic-
toria has so many good golfers is that the
clubs pay particular attention to the encour-
agement of young players. ■ One event which
was inaugurated last year is the tourney
for assistant professionals, who are prac-
tically apprentices to the trade. The second
meeting last week at the Woodlands course
saw Bert Ferguson, winner last year, again
come home first in the scratch event, his
card reading 160 for two rounds. Biliings,
who filled second place, is only 15, but
impressed onlookers with his game. With
a handicap of 8 this boy won the handicap
section with 154. He should be heard of
in the near future.
❖ * ❖ *
“Hotham”: Melbourne stages an annual
golf match between associate players and
club professionals. The pros, go the full
course and the girls, while playing from
their own shorter teeing grounds, receive a
stroke at every second. The associates won
by 81* games to 81, the men being routed in
the foursomes. Susie Tolhurst beat the Vie.
professional champion, George Naismith, 4
and 2 in the singles, and with Miss M.
Marrie in the doubles downed the Naismith
brethren. Other associates to do well were
Mrs. Gatehouse and Miss B. Nankivell.
“Hoylake”: Tlic predicament of a golfer
in Sydney last week who broke his braces
in the middle of a round and was conse-
quently compelled to finish under wraps
reminds one that a great percentage of
modern players wear belts. Harry Vardon
has laid it down that braces are the correct
wear. Without them the shoulders are apt
to have too much play, with the result that
oyerswinging- follows. Similarly, the old-
time British professionals never allowed
their pupils to play without a coat, the
theory being that freedom from this slight
restraint induced the “pressing” habit which
is so fatal to good golf. Unfortunately,
summer conditions in Australia forbid the
wearing of a coat when playing. That may
account for the fact that our golf standard
is below that of most other countries. All
the same the Americans, who first intro-
duced the fashion of playing in shirt sleeves,
do not seem to have suffered much by it.
Car and Cycle
“Gas”: If the claim of Herr Erren, a Ger-
man scientist, is correct, the petrol and fuel
oil trouble which besets all motorists will
soon be a thing of the past. His process
consists in converting plain water into a
fuel for internal-combustion engines. It is
treated by electrolysis so us to break it up
into its constituents of hydrogen and oxygen.
The gases are then fed to the cylinders and
exploded by the usual electrical ignition.
The car can be fitted to manufacture its
own explosive compound or this may be
carried in high-pressure cylinders, 1 here is
a third alternative by which the gases may
be taken directly from the air.
* :l: * *
“Buzz”: What is claimed to be the first
air motor-cycle will soon be on the market.
It is a two-seater aeroplane built by the
British Aircraft Co., and consists ot a
Lowe-Wylde glider fitted with a 6-li.p. Doug-
las motor-cycle engine. The machine has
proved very successful after exhaustive
trials, and has a speed of 48 ln.p.h., with a
landing speed of 20 m.p.h. The price is
to be about £2OO, and with the slow land-
ing speed no great area of ground is neces-
sary when coming to roost.
* * * *
“Formula”: In the annual race at Brook-
lands for the Old Crocks’ Cup, G. L. Rey-
nolds drove a 499c.c. belt-driven Triumph
of the 1909 vintage and won comfortably
from scratch, putting up the very decent
average of 38.16 m.p.h. The hit of the
day was an unnamed machine ridden by
li. Leveson Gower. This was fitted with
ordinary pedals as well as the motor power,
and whenever the rider helped his engine
along by recourse to the pedals he brought
down the house.
“Sprocket”: Elsa Barbour, who recently
essayed a Sydney to Melbourne bike-ride,
made a very fair job of it. Her time for
the 565 miles was 3 days 71ir. 25min.:
deducting stops for sleep the actual pace
maintained while riding was over 10 m.p.h.
The young woman had scheduled herself
to do the trip in 41 days. She proved
unlucky in one respect. She asked the
N.S.W. cycling authorities for permission
to make the attempt before she approached
the officials of her own State organisation.
As a result, the Victorians will not
uise her achievement, though the N.S.W.
people will. The lady thus is a record-
holder as far as the Murray. On the other
side of that noble stream she is just a
touring cyclist.
Miscellaneous
Jan McShane, the N.S.W. Rhodes scholar
for 1933, will make another of those fine
Rugby Union footballers whom Australia
has contributed to Oxford, the list begin-
ning with the late Charles Wade, Premier
and Chief Justice of N.S.W. An engineer-
ing student, McShane came into the athletic
limelight last season as a Scrum half. He
was a certainty for the South African tour,
but wisely put his work first and declined.
His fellow-Uni. and N.S.W. player Lam-
port is captain of Oxford Rugby this year,
and McShane will have some trouble in get-
ting his blue when his senior is in residence,
for Lamport also is a scrum-half. Bettington.
Wallace, Lawton and Forsayth are a few
of McShane’s other predecessors in the Bark
Blue XV, Wallace and Forsayth playing for
Scotland in addition.
“Rufus” (Transvaal) : “Gate” is slightly
ajar (B. 31/8/’32). No seats have yet
been booked for the Rugby Tests against
Australia, and prices will range from 3s.
6d. to. 21s. Also the Johannesburg match
will be played at Ellis Park, where the All
Blacks won. This field has been laid down
to Kikuyu grass. All of the leading
clubs, including the Wanderers, have now
Kikuyu fields for Rugby and plain fields
for Soccer. When All Blacks met Spring-
boks at Ellis Park 37,000 paid about £20,000
to see the match—sufficient to cover the
whole expenses of the tour. The Waratab
tour will no' doubt be a record one, as there
are many Australians in South Africa.
“Blade Sight” : The Commonwealth Coun-
cil of Rifle Associations, which met in
Melbourne the other day for the first time
for four years, has decided to invite a
British team to shoot in this country in
1934. If the invitation is accepted the
Britons will visit all the States, and prob-
ably M.L. Only two British rifle teams
have come this way, in 1907 and 1920.
Another made a start in 1914, but w r as re-
called when it had reached Suez to take
part in a. more serious shoot. The Vic-
torian King’s was one of the prizes taken
back by . the 1907 party, Warrant-officer
Raven being the winner. In 1920 another
naval man, P. O. Gray, bagged another valu-
able Victorian prize, the Syme aggregate.


c
%Jm
f *
RM
llfflll
I /
refill ‘
|r,r -aM^iiSBi
ir-jl jj£H|
I 1
mm
m
SgTsOaSS
e nan njffi5nls%i‘
6*
It K Klt/a GOOD for YOU!
The medical profession has never hesitated to endorse the
health-giving properties of good pure beer. For many years
leading Physicians have recommended beer, in whatever
form their patients most enjoy, as a tonic, a health food and
as a refreshing beverage which will restore energy lost
through work and worry.
Here are the words of Lord Dawson of Penn , Physician to the King
—words which have a special significance for most of us tn these
times of stress:
"A glass of beer at the end of the day will lighten the mental
horizon, brighten the outlook, enable a man to drop those grey-
colored spectacles with which he views the world after the
hardships of the day, and give him content, ease of mind and
happiness”
Lord Dawson’s verdict is endorsed by another of the World’s most
famous medical men, Sir James Crichton -Browne, M,D,, LL.D
F.R.S. He says:
“Beer acts as a means of relaxation. It quickens the emotional
responses of individuals, and therefore helps them to bear the
troubles and anxieties which beset them in these strenuous
modern times”
Dr. Josiah Oldfield, M.D., quite frankly states that good beer has
played an important part in the development of the British race.
He writes:
*7 attribute very much of the stamina which the British race
possesses to the phosphates and salines contained in beer.
Sir William Arbuthnot Lane, C. 8., M. 8., Lond., 8.5., F.R.C.S,,
world-famous physician and surgeon, makes a statement which
definitely and finally ends all argument:
"J do not hesitate to assert that 1 have saved more lives and
rendered others healthier and happier by the reasonable use
of alcohol than by the administration of any drug.”
In a recent contribution to the News-Chronicle (London) " A
Family Doctor” states:
“The best and safest taste to cultivate is a taste for beer; the
percentage of alcohol is low, and its volume self-eliminating.”
DRINK
ẁ
ẃ
REGULARLY
Its good for you f
BREWED UNDER PERFECT HYGIENIC CONDITIONS IN YOUR OWN STATE
TOOTH’S
TOOHEYS
RESCH’S
B-3--75


THE MACLEOD GALLERY
OF AUSTRALIAN ART,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street, Sydney.
THE ANNUAL EXHIBITION
OF THE
SOCIETY OF PAINTER-ETCHERS
will be opened at this Gallery by
EARL BEAUCHAMP
On WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, at 3.30 p.m.
w
* r*
»eot „,.1d 1S '
• t»rta* co— . s tine
v u ' , o .twe-® 0 . vfOvAd ve vi'
' „ r itv t 9 te « p * ve Iti tVve oi ex
SS Can ftta geov^Sc CC ot 11500 193 3
S?H?Sr«£.““ up . s 5, « _
W W o rU"g . r uxS
jve Ip f CDW . r ® ng ~
s p R rti . utt e, G _ &ava^
tL„vett ieS ’ s-nnstia*®*’
?^ ceS ‘
GooA*j
iPR\» cf , b „.p«» frV‘»"’ le3 b
SJS***
\,a
, tu» r 'f=al debates JtiS a^°tativeS ’
S w «V W pl!t S, S 'pi ’ w*. * S
.vital 1 * ~7
c T?o-
-« Street, i****.*.
Tii »■ n U**" 1
W-A-
vue 1?»
Expenses to
#dtt^ tal BrV-df
4*
li
n
lil
Mil
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
Sydney enjoyed a Sunday afternoon .of
smiling sky and warm sunshine after staging
in the morning one of the most spectacular
storms sbe has known. Between 7.20 and
7.50 no fewer than 210 points of rain fell,
the heaviest fall in 30 minutes over registered
by the Weather Bureau. Fortunately it
wasn’t a working morning for John and
Jennie Citizen, but, of course, the poor milk-
man and the paper-deliverer got it in the
neck. City stores were flooded, and at least
one bank got a hint to keep its assets liquid,
for the rain-water, gurgled over its gutter-
ings and into its lift wells. Narrow streets
around the sides and back of The Bulletin
office were a rushing stream of storm waters;
the soil was washed in layers off the flower
beds in Hyde Park, and in the suburbs the
market garden and the poultry run paid
toll to the tropic downpour.
The Victoria League decided on an open-
air party in honor of Australia’s former
High Commissioner Granville Ryrie and his
lady: and the setting was a typical hit of
bushland. This is part of the grounds sur-
rounding Glen Roona, the home of Mrs.
Alfred Lee, tin: league’s secretary; here
bush and tree and fern grow in native
beauty, and birds build unafraid of rivalry
witn builders in brick and mortar. The
afternoon was all blue sky and the song of
cicada and bird; the guests were numerous
and the summer frocks of the women (far,
far more of them than of men) were vivid in
the sunlight. Chief Justice Street’s lady
and Mrs. Alfred Lee were the hostesses, the
former wearing currant-red chiffons pat-
terned with beige leaves, the latter black
lace and georgette. The Ryrie lady’s raiment
was very correct black marocains and black
millinery, and she was armed witli pink and
red roses of high lineage. Muriel Lee moved
through the afternoon, good-looking and un-
usual. She wore a black frock, a tiny flat
black hat, and long green earrings. Sister
Mrs. Butter wore a jacket of chenille-
embossed georgette with her dark brown
georgette frock.
Charles Lawrence Regan deserves a
special word for his wedding garments,
which were as glossy and as correct as if
he were being married in the Brompton
Oratory. He looked very nice, too, and for
once the bride didn’t share all the glances.
The knot-tying-, which was inset in a Nup-
tial Mass, was an early-morning ceremony
at St. Mary’s, and the bride ivas attractive
Claire Porter of Ocean-avenue, Double Bay.
Her frock of magnolia satin was cut on
mediaeval lines; the sleeves were long and
tight, and the train was three and a half
yards long. A coronet of ivory wool lace bound
the usual billows of tulle to the bride’s
head; sister Dorothy and cousin Irene
Anderson in pale pink chiffons, their hands
filled with pink water-lilies, and Claire’s
father, who gave her away, made up the pro-
cession. Later Mr. and Mrs. W. T. Porter
spread a breakfast at Brooksby, Double Bay,
which had been lent by the Charles Duvals.
The ’gi’oom is a son of Mrs. Charles Regan
of Tamwortli.
There was joy aboard the lugger when
the cheque from the Bush Nursing Fete
was handed over last week. The pleasing
ceremony took place at Government House.
The net result of the fete was £6761 14s. 5d.,
and this was served up to the vicereine by
Victor Neilley, of the Commonwealth Bank,
with paeans and huzzas from the multitude.
Finally it reached the pocket of Dr. Millard,
president of the B.N.A. The doctor, incident-
•ally, intends to spend his holiday in inspect-
ing some of the centres; one of the first
results of the cash in hand will be to open
up some which had been closed owing to a
dwindling treasury.
Everybody was in high good humor, and
speeches were both witty and pretty. H'is
Ex. spoke, so did the Premier, Henry Brad-
don, Dr. Millard and Lud Mayor Wakler.
Lady Game was cheered to the echo; and
official secretary Budge and General Ander-
son added to the flow of oratory. All of
which led up to the presentation to Mrs.
A. O. Godhard of a silver cigarette case
bearing the legend “To the perfect organi-
ser.” This was from Sir Philip and Lady
Game, and Mrs. Godhard took it with the
becoming blush of modesty.
Very rarely has this city to record a knight
as a bridegroom, for knighthood as we know
it is the red carnation in the .buttonhole of
middle-age. But last week St. Andrew’s
Presbyterian kirk at Longueville blessed
the vows of knight William Brunton, of
Malvern (Vic.), when he married Christina
McFadden, of the same city. The ’groom,
thrice Lud Mayor of Melbourne, was a
widower, and the bride was one of his first
wife’s greatest friends. The wedding gar-
ment was very handsome, a flowing affair of
deep-toned parchment lace, which had for
accompaniments a wide brown straw hat
splashed with orange and an armful of glow-
ing gladioli. Sister Grace ’maided and
brother-in-law H. G. Willmott was the
escort. Later Mrs. H. C. Willmott hostessed
a family party in her Longueville home. The
Maloja carried off the William Bruntons
for a holiday in Colombo and Singapore.
Racial Hygienists entertained their orga-
nising secretary, Mrs. Goodisson, before she
went to Melbourne as a delegate to the first
Australian Conference of the National Coun-
cil of Women. The Allora was crowded with
doctors and professional people for the fare-
well, and there were flowers for the guest
of honor, a speech by Senator Kingsmill,
and a fine programme of music. In short,
the thing was done as handsomely as such
a public-spirited citizen deserved. Mrs.
Goodisson has done political and welfare
work in Westralia and Victoria, and now
her energies are directed to building up the
Racial Hygiene Society.
Earl Beauchamp and his son, the Honor-
able Hugh Lygon, have dug themselves in at
Cathona, Darling Point, the home of the
A. E. Hugheses; and now that Lord Beau-
champ’s ankle and the young man’s throat
are nearly well there will be no end of visi-
tors at their summer home. One of our
former Governor’s pastimes is the working
of a special bit of tapestry. This is to
cover one of live famous chairs in Madres-
field Court. Some time ago it was noticed
that the tapestry on these chairs was becom-
ing very shabby. Inquiries were made, and
it was found that to cover them tapestry
would have to be specially worked, and it
would cost more than £lO a yard. “Good-
ness !” said the Earl, opening his artless blue
eyes; “now, what’s the good of having four
daughters?” One of the girls laughed and
said, “Very well, each of us will work the
tapestry for one chair, if you will do the
same by another.” “Done,” said their
father; and here he is in Australia working
out the intricate old design, and doing it
Very well.
Lady Angela St. Clair Erskine (Forbes
by marriage), about whose views on Sydney
Government House the cables have been
exclaiming, is among those present in “My
Gamble with Life,” a book, published in
1928, by her brother James, fifth Earl of
Rosslyn. He tells of his half-sisters, the
Countess of Warwick and Lady Algernon
Gordon-Lennox, and of the sisters who be-
came Duchess of Sutherland and Countess
of Westmorland. Then he adds: “Last,
but not least, came Angela (Lady Angela
Forbes), who to-day earns her living by
dressmaking and writing for the press.
Angela is too businesslike and hard-working- in
the material sense of the word to quite come into
the picture with her two elder sisters. Her brain
is as quick and resourceful, but she has never had
the opportunity the other two had thrust upon them
to satisfy tile ambitions she, too, had acquired from
her father and mother. Her good work in France,
as pioneer of all canteens, will never be forgotten
by the troops who were in the neighborhood of
Etaples.
Vance Palmer, his blue eyes cunningly set
about by wife Nettie with a grey suit and
a blue shirt (no man ever picked that color-
ing unaided by woman’s taste), looked in on
this Letter on Monday. He and Mrs. Palmer
are on their way to Melbourne after sampling
for some months the joys of the Barrier
Reef. They had an island to themselves —
Green Island —and they set their camp on
the beach under the shade of tall green trees.
In front of their tent was a beautiful silky-
oak table grown on the island and fashioned
and planed by some long-ago campers; their
fireplace was an open one on the beach, and
here they cooked the fish they had caught or
the stores from Cairns which came up every
week. When the tide was full they were
in the midst of a lagoon six or seven feet
deep, and when the tide was out they could
paddle from one atoll to another acquiring
naturalistic knowledge. With the south-east
trade blowing, and the air opalescent with
the wings of Torres pigeons, the two writers
felt a tremendous urge to creative expression,
and Australian literature is going to be all
the richer for this retreat.
Taffeta petticoats and cross-over bodices
are two of the things coming within the
next week or two. The taffeta slip is the
last word in foundations for satin or crbpe
evening frocks, and the cross-over is popu-
lar when it ties at the back with a bow.
Even the flimsy capes to chiffon and lace
frocks achieve this cross-over by means of
their ties, winch slip beneath the arms and
then are knotted at the waist.
The star of the P.A. Hospital Carnival
pageant was Patricia Minchin, a pretty girl
who does a lot of amateur acting. She was
sheathed in gold, as befits one who repre-
sents this land of the sun, and was pre-
ceded by two youngsters whose green and red
outfits suggested the waratah. The States
in their shimmering- green satin robes made?
an impressive entry, a white satin pennant
blazoned with the arms of each State
attached to the extended right and left wrist
of each alternate girl. Enid Lacliszyrma
made a tall and graceful Prosperity, her
frock of gleaming white having vine leaves,
wheat and many fruits appfiqued on its
yards-long train. She carried in her arms
a long boat-shaped basket brimming with
the fruits of the earth, which, at the end
of the pictured turmoil of fear and sus-
picion and war, she presented to Australia.
A striking looker was Mary Martin, who
trailed the green robes of Geres, her arms
filled with golden sheaves, and, of course,
the goddess of the flocks was a Maearthur,
descendant of the original wool-grower.
Ethelwyn Kirk, a student of design at
Sydney Tech., told this Letter something
of the building-up of color to represent emo-
tions that a show of this sort entails. Deep,
strong blues were used to dress Justice and
Strength; Fear, on the other hand, had
a fluctuating kind of blue that somehow
suggested nameless terror and inaction.
Yellows and crude greens were mixed for
the raiment of Suspicion; and on this
played the red light of Anger. As usual,
Ethelwyn spent a lot of time over the dye
pot, with paint brush in hand, to achieve
the desired shades.
A walk around the stalls again forced
on the mind the tremendous amount of work
done unostentatiously by the hospital auxili-
aries. Here were piles of fine needlework,
a hundred and one useful and ornamental
things that wives and mothers need for their
daily food, as it were. The nurses, too,
had done their bit. and not only furnished
a stall, but looked after it day and night. The
Fine Arts stall hold some real treasures:
a dog study by Scorfield, an amazing cat
that D. H. Souter saw one night at Bondi,
aborigines that only B. E. Minns could
paint. Mrs. Hal Capper gave a valuable
old Italian print, Mrs. Toby Brown pre-
sented a steel engraving and some Aus-
tralian woven rugs, there was a peuscapo
of Dee Why, Sir Hugh Poynter sent some
prints from his store, and John Banks sent
some engravings. Other things that caught
the eye were a blue plate that had once
been in a dinner set of Queen Victoria’s,
some bits of Florentine silverwork, and lots
of well-bound books. All the furnishings
that weren’t sold at the Fair will be sold
later in the city.
Surely no mother has dowered the art of
her country so richly as the lady in this
picture. She was Mrs. R. C. Lindsay, who
died last week in Victoria, and she gave five
artists to Australia, among them the provo-
cative, always interesting, always brilliant
Norman. Percy, the eldest of a family of
which all the members are good lookers and
good talkers, is noted for the early-morning
freshness of his landscapes. Lionel, who in
the world’s younger days might have been a
troubadour, delights in reproducing the color
and line of many lands. Then there’s
Daryl, forceful in black and white, and
there was Ruby (afterwards wife of car-
toonist Will Dyson), acclaimed by those
who knew her a golden beauty, whose draw-
ings graced many a Bulletin until her
untimely death. Mrs. Lindsay was bom at
Telcva, Vanua. Levu, Fiji, in 1848, and was
a daughter of the Rev. Thomas Williams
(originally an architect), a native of Horn-
castle, Lincolnshire. In 1569, then a re-
markably handsome girl, she married Dr. R.
C. Lindsay, who had come to Australia in
’66 in charge of an immigrant ship and
settled in Creswick, Victoria. There were
10 children, four girls and six boys, one of
whom was killed in the war. Robert, who
comes next after Percy, is a dress and
theatrical designer, whose work is known in
England and America. Domesticity and
matrimony have claimed Mary, Pearl and
Isabel, but they all draw, and Mary has
decided literary leanings.
Professor Arnold Wall, of Christchurch,
passed through Sydney last week, arriving
by the Strathnaver from India, where he
spent a summer botanising, photographing,
writing and. walking. He put in some of his
time in Srinagar, not so healthy for Luro-
peans as the rest of that much-sung district,
but noted for its shawls, its woodcarving and
silverwork. The professor walked right up
into Central Asia and back, over 500 miles,
and takes back with him a most varied
series of photographs. Incidentally, this
Maorilander has been a Bulletin contri-
butor for over 20 years.
Marjorie Ilambridge, a talented young
violinist who interrupted her studies at the
Royal Academy to pay a visit to father
and mother, went off again to _ London by
the Maloja last Friday. Marjorie, a pretty,
tall girl, was surrounded by friends and
banked up with flowers saying farewell.
Early next year brother Rhodes, now at
King’s, goes to Cambridge to study medicine.
Mrs. F. Aronson, the newly-elected presi-
dent of the Society of Women Writers, was
the founder of this weekly lunching club of
the city’s penwomen. She was one of Syd-
ney’s earliest women journalists, and in
addition is a notable cook. One of her
proudest recollections is being shown over
the kitchens of Buckingham Palace by the
Royal chef. During the war she was a con-
sistent worker for the soldier.
Another titled group has arrived —Lieut.-
General Sir Sydney and Lady Lawford, and
son Peter, who at nine years old is something
of a film star, having appeared in “Old Bill"
and “A Gentleman of Paris.’’ Sir Sydney,
who served in the Boer War and later in the
Great War, has a string of medals that
would be dazzling in any company. Besides
British, lie has French, Belgian and Russian
decorations, so it’s no wonder that the boy
is already an accomplished linguist. The
family should have something stimulating to
throw into dinner-party conversation —
rather a millpond with us—as they have
known life in most parts of the world, in-
cluding India, where Sir Sydney was general
officer commanding the Lahore district. Lady
Lawford’s father was the late General A. C.
Bunny, of the Royal Artillery, and Sydney’s
Women Writers are keen to entertain her, as
she writes for a number of London dailies.
To learn to surf is the family’s ambition
while they are in Sydney.
At the Dramatic Circle gathering of the
Lyceum Club the other afternoon, Mrs. Coul-
son Davidson, a vital personality in a smart
striped confection, gave a talk on the Little
Theatre .movement in general and how it
applies to Melbourne in particular. Mrs.
Davidson, with her husband and daughter, is
spending a holiday in Sydney. In her own
city she is well known among the dramatic
lubs as a producer and playwright.
Daughter Joan has very decided views of her
own on things artistic, and is one of our
budding writers.
Bananaland bits:—
Dame Sybil Thorndike was entertained at tea by
the Lyceum Club, Mrs. W. Young presiding. The
guest of honor wore yellow, black and white, with a
yellow hat; Mrs. Young was in black with touches
of white. It was tile Philp lady's birthday and
she, too, was among the recipients of roses.
A pageant of shawls was arranged at the Women’s
Club. Colored lights were on the platform and
before a cheval glass the wearers draped their old-
time wraps, some of which were 200 years old.
There was a musical programme and Estelle Cor-
mack gave a Spanish dance.
Dorothy Chapman announces her engagement to
Dr. Malcolm Carseldine.
Ronald Francis Olapliam was married to Winnie
Clark in the Clayfleld Baptist church. The bride,
who was given away by H. W, Tate, was in white
satin and lace. Olive Tate ’maided in pink lace.
At St. Mary’s. Kangaroo Point, Joseph Greyson
Scott and Phyllis Buckland exchanged vows. The
bride, a well-known hockey player, was given away
by her father; she wore ivory bridal satin and a
broidered veil. Peggy Buckland and Vera Nairn
’maided in eau de nil striped organdie and Dolly
Varden head-dresses of Dorothy Perkins roses.
Something new in dinner parties has been staged
by some of our young people. At 6.30 soup was
served at the G. L. Websters’ home. Separate courses
were served at other houses to which the diners
proceeded by car. Dr. and Mrs. A. H. Marks, the
John Flowers, the W. F. Gardiners, Dr. and Mrs.
S. Cook were the progressive hosts and dancing at
Lennon’s finished the entertainment.
Edward Francis Hubbard married Gloria Viola
Martin in St. Andrew’s, Lutwyclie. The bride, who
was given away by her mother, was in -white
mariette and lace. The church bells pealed and
the Toombul club made an arch of lacrosse sticks
and a guard of honor.
Archbishop Sharp went to Southport for the dedi-
cation festival service at St. Alban’s Chapel. An-
other visitor of note was Dame Sybil Thorndike,
who, with Lewis Casson, lunched in the main hall
of the school. Thence the actress went to St.
Hilda’s School and addressed the girls.
A reception was given to Dame Sybil Thorndike
by the Town and Country Club. Dame Sybil was
in brown and white; Merlinna Llewellis and Acie
Gillies played and Ruby Massey recited. Merna Gillies,
president of the club, wore black lace with black
and red hat.


Clearance of
CHRYSLER
Stocks
At values impossible to duplicate by the late
distributors for New South Wales, who are
now concentrating on the sale of Chevrolet
products in the metropolitan area.
The following is a typical example of outstand-
ing value.
Chrysler Model “66”
Tourer £365
Sedan £445
Sales Tax Included. (Equipped with Bumper Bars)
NOTE.—Chrysler owners are assured of
adequate stocks of certified spare parts for all
models and a continuance of guaranteed service
by highly trained Chrysler mechanics.
Full particulars from
LARfiE NEAVE & CARTER LTD.
177-185 William Street - - - Sydney
Phones FL 3001 (10 fines)
s
MAKING THE XMAS GRADE
Give mechanical toys for Christmas. They interest and charm children and develop
their physiques and minds as well.
CYCLOPS MECHANICAL TOYS
A group of strongly-made Australian beautifully finished in colors.
Motor Cars—“ Star” Car 28/9, 31/6
00 36/-
00D 39/6
30 63/-
Aero plane 61/-
Motor Truck 80/-
Tricycles, 6RT 21/9
„ 7RT 34/9
Tubular Tricycles, No. 4 83/6
„ „ „ 5 87/6
tSr'
m
MAGIC MECCANO
The magic of engineering made plain.
No. 000 4/6
„ 00 8/-
„ 0 11/3
1 33/6
„ 2 35/-
„ 3 54/-
„ 4 113/6
Other sets up to B'o/-
Dinkies, No. 5 11/6
„ „ 4 12/6
„ 6 15/-
„ „ 2 17/-
..00 18/-
„ .. 3 21/-
Dinkie Express 23/-
Scooters, 9/-, 10/9, 12/9, 15/-, 23/6, 36/-
Doll’s Pram 17/6
HORNBY RAIL ROMANCE
The romance of railroading: in nvniature.
MO —Goods Set 13/6
MO —Passenger Set 14/6
M—Goods Set I 18/6
Ml- —Passenger Set 24/-
M2 —Passenger Set 28/-
Ml—Goods Set 26/-
M3 —Tank Goods Set 39/-
o—Goods0 —Goods Set 45/-
o—Passenger Set 42/6
Accessories and other sets up to 170/-
SPORTING CARTRIDGES
For Rifle or Shotgun make useful gifts.
See us for Nobel. Eley, Ivynoch brands.
&
£
m.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CHRISTMAS GIFTS for LADIES
mw 1
ifa
Ladies’ Scissor-case, hand made of
finest fancy leather, velvet-lined,
containing 3 pairs Nickel-plated
Scissors 257-
Similar Case, with 4 pairs Scissors,
37/6 per case.
Post Free for cash with order.
W. JNO. BAKER, LTD.
3 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
Special Announcement
to National Advertisers
Che mercury
Tasmania’s National Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with ' the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
1 9 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—•
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
THREE
BIG FACTORS IN THE
PROSPERITY OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
WHEAT, WOOL,
GOLD
STUDY THESE FIGURES!
WHEA r.
1931 .. 41,000,000 bushels
1933 .. 45,000,000 bushels
WOOL.
1931 308,000 bales
1933 . . 310,000 bales
The number of slieei> in W.A. this year is
a record, the total being 11,000,000.
GOLD.
1931.. 510,5730 z.
1933.. OOO.OOOoz. (est’d)
If you desire to advertise in the West,
there is ONE big factor to help YOU
to Prosperity. It is Western Australia’s
largest newspaper,
THE
Sales 38,0uu copies weekly.
Office: Wingello House, Angel
Place, Sydney. 85690.
TT’S handy, this new
A British portable, and
takes up so little room
that it can be used any
time, anywhere. Just
take off the cover of the
“Good Companion” and
it is ready to type what-
ever you wish, quickly,
neatly and legibly.
In the home or small
office, the “Good Com-
panion” has a hundred
uses. And authors or
journalists find it indis- <
pensable because it s so
easy to operate. Ask to
see the New British
Imperial “Good Com-
panion” at the nearest
agent.
Imperial
A GOOD
COMPANION
for the
traveller...
£l9/191-
The
British
Imperial
GOOD COMPANION
n
v
£
L “BELL & CO., LTD., IMPERIAL TYPEWRITER SALES 00., GKO. RAITT &CO PTY LTD.,
43 Creek Street, Brisbane. 22 Martin Place, Sydney. 4 ° pY?w<s CO
OFFICE EQUIPPERS, LTD., JOHNSON & HEY, OF* ICE SUPPLIES CO
GaWler Place Adelaide: Hunter Street, Newcastle. 10.) Macquane Street, Hoba.t.
BURRIDGE & WARREN, LTD., 69 King Street, Perth.


*sa
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Win. Fowles, of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne, offers you this season not
only Victoria’s greatest refined hotel values
thus: Single Rooms
from 4/6 day ; Double
from 7/6; and meals
optional; also at re-
duced rates in Tea-
rooms or Cafe; Room
with Breakfast from
6/6 Single or 11/6
Double —all less 10
p.c. if staying one
week or more; and
complete Board from
10/6 day or 65/- week
(both net) ; but, in
addition, •if you
motor, Win. Fowles
m
garages your car free of charge in the hotel
garage, next door, during your entire stay.
Such value service and convenience is not
obtainable at any other hotel in the Mel-
bourne city. Please write for tariff card,
which gives all information, or state your
requirements and we will gladly quote.
Special rates for clubs, conferences, families,
etc. The Manager, Carlyon’s Hotel, Mel-
bourne, is sufficient address for your letter.
IF WEAK, ILL
& KEN DOWN
TAKE CREAM OF YEAST!
Many men and women are prematurely aged
through a run-down condition caused by long-
continued nervousness, allied to constipation.
Their ill-health may not be serious, but con-
stant nagging pains and tired-feeling rob life
of interest for even the most stout-hearted.
Such below-par conditions are soon corrected
by taking Cream of Yeast. This tonic restora-
tive, “pick-me-up” and internal cleanser com-
bines concentrated yeast with other valuable
medicinals, and is remarkably effective in
cases of “Bad Nerves,” Debility, Headaches,
Dizziness, Sour Stomach, Skin Troubles. Tired
Feeling, Low Vitality and many other dis-
orders. Now, while you think of it, get a
flask of Cream of Yeast tablets from your
nearest chemist. Take two or three of the
tablets to-night—as early as to-morrow you
will be delighted with the improvement in
your looks, health and bearing. Thousands
have quickly and effectively put their dis-
ordered internal mechanism right by taking
handy, effective, inexpensive Cream of Yeast;
why not you?
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. NOW IN ITS 91st YEAR
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
The Victoria League had an evening
reception in honor of E. T. Crutchley,
British Government representative in Aus-
tralia, and Mrs. Crutchley, who are
transferring their residence to Canberra.
Hostesses were Mrs. Arthur Hordern, Mrs.
Harry Emmerton and the Stawell lady. A
dissertation on Empire problems was given by
Mr. Crutchley, and knight Harrison Moore
made a speech. Old English songs were
warbled by Mrs. Fleming Dunstan. Among
the guests were Vice-Admiral Hyde, the
Mitchell lady and her daughter Janet, just
returned after travels in Manchuria, Uni.
Chancellor MacFarland, medical-knight James
Barrett and his wife, and Air-Commodore
Williams and Mrs. Williams.
Alfred Hospital received financial help
from a bazaar in the garden of Mrs. A. 0.
Barrett’s home, Armadale. A string band
played outdoors, and indoors there was a
programme of music, vocal and instrumental,
with dancing by Beryl Miller’s pupils.
Madeline and Barbara Barrett, grand-
daughters of the hostess, w T ere among the
trippers. Members of the committee of the
Armadale auxiliary assisted their president.
Mrs. Harry Heath, wearing opal-green
georgette topped by a black straw hat, staged
at her Toorak home an afternoon party to
introduce Adrienne Healy, of Sydney, who
is to marry lan Heath. The bride-elect was
in grey-crinkled crepe with a large grey hat
of the same shade.
At the Melbourne C. of E. Girls’ Grammar
School the junior pupils performed an Aus-
tralian fairy play, “The Spirit of the Bush,”
iu which animals, birds, butterflies, flowers,
sprites and elves were delightfully repre-
sented and youngsters camouflaged as abos.
did a weird corroboree. Iris Turnbull spoke
the story, and Katie Dougharty was pro-
ducer, aided by Thelma St. J. George and
Miss A. Rowed. In the evening there was
a bridge party, with intervals of dancing by
pupils of Eunice Weston. Miss Gilman
Jones, the principal, and Mrs. W. K. Burn-
side extended the greeting hand to parents
and patrons.
Knight James Barrett opened a bazaar
for the Bush Nursing Association, held in the
garden surrounding George Connibere’s
home at Launching Place, which is among
the hills on the way to Warburton.
The Weedon lady, wearing gown and hat
of dark primula mauve, poured tea at the
Wattle for several guests as a farewell to
her sister, Mrs. J. V. Collins, who returned
in the Mariposa to her home at King’s Col-
lege, Auckland (M.L.).
At the latest gathering of the Standard
Verse and Music Club, Lilian Stott sang
songs composed by Mona Mcßurney, of this
city, including excerpts from Miss Meßur-
ney’s opera “The Dalmatian.” Mrs. Frank
Anderson read verses.
At a gathering in Margaret McLean’s
studio Flora Mclver read some of the
recently-published verses of Bernice Lum, a
17-year-old girl, who is also a composer of
music, her efforts in that direction including
a sonata or two, other pieces for piano and
strings, and several songs. A composition
which gained the approval of Moiseiwitscli
and is dedicated to him is called “Heron
in the Water Shallows.” A book of 12 of
Miss Lum’s songs, under the title of “Sugar-
lumps,” is shortly to be published by Allan
and Co.
Air Force officers’ wives and mothers and
some friends played bridge after a business
meeting at which Mrs. Eric Harrison pre-
sided. The card-gathering proceeds went
towards the upkeep of a bed at the After-
care Home.
Among the attractions of tlie P.L.C. ex-
students’ garden party were a tennis tourna-
ment for past and present pupils and a dis-
play of arts and crafts work by girls of
the school. Wyselaskie Hall, of the seminary,
where the guests had tea, was decked with
rhododendrons, stocks and foliage. Many of
these blooms came from the home at Emerald
of the president, of the Old Collegians’ Club,
Mrs. J. H'. Mirams, whose residence was
once the famous Nobelius Nursery. Bertha
Braithwaite, president of the Old Collegians’
Association, whose presentation bouquet of
yellow roses toned with the brown and
amber shades of her floral chiffon gown and
brown straw hat, shared the duties of hos-
pitality with Mrs. Mirams, Principal Gray
and Mrs. Gray. The present scholars beat
their opponents in the tennis match, and
for the first time will hold the Kellet Cup.
Among the guests were Uni. Chancellor
MacFarland, the Rev. Dr. and Mrs. Borland
and Mrs. I. H. Moss.
Singer John Brownlee and his wife enter-
tained guests at Maple Grove on a recent
afternoon. Mrs. Brownlee wore flat crepe
figured in beige and pink. Mrs. James
Brownlee, Rear-Admiral Sarel and his wife,
Mrs. H. Emruerton and her niece Mary
Emmerton, Mrs. George Chirnside, Mrs. R.
G. Casey and the Clive Millers were there.
The knot-tying of Betty, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Selwyn Cox, of Launceston, and
William, son of the late Campbell Guest
and of Mrs. Campbell Guest, of Toorak,
took, place at. All Saints, Kooyong. The
bride, who had no attendant 'maids, wore
a simple frock of white crinkled crepe with
a shoulder spray of orchids and a shady
white straw hat.
A romance that began three years ago
when a Melbourne girl visited the U.S.A.
ended with a marriage at the Congregational
Church, San Mateo, San Francisco, last
month, when Cara, daughter of the late
F. W. Waters and of Mrs. Waters, of Kew,
exchanged vows with Leonard Maxwell
White, who hails from Los Angeles. The
bride wore apricot-hued satin with a match-
ing toque of velvet and tulle. The wed-
ding took place from the home of Mrs. W.
Sprott Boyd, who is a sister of mrs. Murray
Black, of Tarwin Meadows, South Gipps-
land.
Among the tributes received by Arthur
Stigant, who plays Christian Veit, the glass-
maker, in “Lilac Time,” on the opening
night was a toy lamb, a reminder of the
fact that the mummer was a pioneer of
the idea of sending a frozen lamb to friends
in Britain at Christmas-time.
A recent addition to our singers is Madam
Edith Elischer (Mrs. Burnett), who sang
at the Lyceum Club’s lieder and chanson
evening. Others who contributed to the
programme were Mrs. W. Finley and Mrs.
11. L. Wilkinson.
Yallourn, which has raised a memorial to
Monash, who was head of its electricity
works, has selected David Monash Bennett,
the schoolboy grandson of the big soldier, to
unveil the tribute on Nov. 27.
Mrs. Percy Alderton, wife of the general
manager of the P. and O. Co., was hostess
at a luncheon aboard the Strathnaver, at
which arrangements for the Navy League’s
ball aboard the liner were discussed.
Gorgeous flowers from the home of Mr.
and Mrs. Alfred Perry, of Sale, made a set-
ting for a reception at the Windsor after
the knot-tying of Brenta, daughter of the
Thomas Brentons, of Pascoevale, and
Richard, only son of Dr. and Mrs. Charles
Perry, St. Kilda-road. The bride was un-
attended/and wore a simple frock of berry-
red silk and wool georgette with a honey-
tinted straw hat.
This is Eileen Edwards, one of the pioneer
exponents of physical culture for women in
this State. A
Tasmanian by
birth, Miss
Edwards for
many years
conducted a
gymnasium in
Melbourne
with a staff of
10 teachers,
having as
many as 3000
pupils a week.
She has also
be e n as so-
eiated with the
Weber and
Rice school.
Ten years ago
she founded
the Institute
of Physical
Culture Teach-
ers of Vic.,
w hie h now
has 130 members and holds examinations
three times a year. Miss Edwards is the
author of “Modern Physical Culture,” pub-
lished in London in 1914. She has retired
from the business of instruction, but writes
for various newspapers.
An attendant maid and trainbearer in
dark orange velvet frocks, with coronets of
leaves of the same color, furnished the back-
ground for the ivory velvet draperies and
lace veil worn by Dorothy Corben when she
exchanged vows with Angus Roffey, of the
National Bank, Lake Boga. The bride is
a daughter of the late Hedley Corben and
of Mrs. Corben, of Corio, Portarlington. The
after-reception was staged by Mrs. Corben
at Grosvenor, Toorak, where the ’groom’s
parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. D. Roffey, of
Coburg, assisted her in welcoming the guests.
When Cynthia, younger daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Edmund Collins, of Frankston, was
married at St. Paul’s in that. suburb to
Robert Taylor, she wore ivory-tinted angel-
skin lace, mounted on pale pink chiffon.
There was also a faint glimmer of pink
beneath her Limerick lace veil, which
descended from a wreath of orange-buds.
Her ’maids were her sister Norme, Joan
Christian and Cherry Singleton, all iii green
floral chiffon traced in autumn tints, with
little jackets of apple-green velvet. Wreaths
of nasturtiums trimmed their hair. There
were rejoicings afterwards at the home of
the bride’s parents, Mrs. Collins extending
a greeting hand to guests in a gown of
reseda green flat crepe fashioned with a
fawn lace coatee, topped by a toque in
matching hues.
Bella Sutton, who recently retired from
the position of directress of the Boroondara
Free Kindergarten, as she is to be married
to John Curnick, of Ararat, early next year,
was guest of honor at a party given at the
Lyceum Club by Mrs. J. Caldwell Thomas,
the president. . The bride-to-be received a
painting by artist Knox and some books,
the gifts, of the hostess and the committee
of the. kindergarten, for which Miss Sutton
has given fourteen years’ service without
salary. Mrs. T. a’Beckett (president of the
F.K.U.), the Spencer lady and Misses Gut-
tendge and Rosner, of the Kindergarten
training College, paid tribute to Miss
Sutton’s valuable assistance.
A Broothorn
camera made
this portrait
of Edith Noall.
secretary of
the Englisli-
S pea king
Union, who is
very busy
organising a
show, to be
held at the
To w n Hall
u n d e r the
joint auspices
of the E.S.U.
and the Young
Australia
League. Under
the title of
“Happy Holi-
days’’ stars in
the fi r ma-
in e n t s of
cricket, golf,
tennis and other sports will give displays,
and travellers will tell of trips to places
far and near.
In the revival of “Lilac Time” at the
Iloyal the trio of Veit girls trip daintily in
pale blue-and-pink frocks with bonnets and
parasols to match. Later two make nice
brides in white satin and tulle, their brides-
maids in flower-sprinkled white frocks, and
juvenile attendants in pink, with plenty of
lace-trimmed pantalette showing. Evelyn
Gardiner wears the pink brocaded taffeta
gown and feather-trimmed millinery of tlie
Italian prima donna Marini. In the first-
uight audience were Mrs. Fred Thiel, Mrs.
Hewlett and her daughter Nancy, Mr. and
Mrs. Philip Nunn, H’. H. Smith, M.L.C.,
and Mrs. Smith, Mrs. T. a’Beckett and the
Charles Taits.
The Russell Gtimwades have returned
after a tour abroad that included England,
the Continent and South Africa.
From beyond Bass Strait: —
The profits of the Launceston Turf Club’s opening
meeting of the season were devoted to the Anti-
Cancer Campaign. The course and its surroundings
looked as charming as the summer frocks and
hats. Dr. and Mrs. G. E. Clemons' (he is
the chairman of the T.T.C.), were there, with
daughter Anne, and most of the northern medicos
came with their womenfolk to help the good cause.
Mrs. Andrew Raeburn supervised the tea tables. In
the throng were the R. R. Fields, Mrs. Roy O’Connor,
Mrs. W. K. Maclntyre and daughter Peggy, the W.
F. Archers, the Geo. Craggs, Mrs. Robt. Wall, the
0. N. Gunns, Mr. and Mrs. Alee Boyes, the E. V.
Chapmans, Mrs. Charlie Martin, the R. Agnews, the
F. V. Youls, Mrs. Thyne, the F. F. Fairthornes, Mrs.
Cain Hinman and the Geo. Canns.
For the Armistice Ball, held under the auspices
of the R..5.5.1.L.A., with Mrs. Howard Buchanan
and Mary Caulfield organising, the City Hall was
decorated with a “tank” discharging balloons, sheaves
of wheat and Flanders poppies and the inevitable
“Old Bill.” In the official party were Col. and
Mrs. Elliott, Lt. Commander and Mrs. Heriot, Col.
and Mrs. Lord, Col. and Mrs. Winston Thirkell,
Capt. and Mrs. Perkins, Mr. and Mrs. Eric Johnston.
The Sandy Bay Auxiliary of the Queen Alexandra
Hospital engineered an American tea at Mrs. Basil
Crisp’s pretty house overlooking the water. Tea was
served in the loggia and in the dining-room, and
two or three stalls were filled with useful produce.
Lady Allardyce is in the Speck on a visit to her
stepdaughter, Mrs. C. T. Butler, and other friends.
The lady, who was very popular here during her
husband’s governorship, has been warmly welcomed
by her old friends.
Hugh Webster, son of the E. JI. Websters, Gray-
staines, Sandy Bay, has taken his Ph.D. at Cam-
bridge.
Eric Water worth, who went back to London last
autumn to finish his studies in wireless and radio
work, has married Lilian Davies, a violinist and
a pupil of Madame Isolde Meiig'es. The young
couple expect to leave for tlie Speck early next year.
Groperland garnerings : —•
Felicitations are being heaped upon Bonnie Sander-
son and Bob Giles, who have announced their matri-
monial intentions. Bonnie treads the Inky Way on
the “Daily News,” and Bob has a finger in the
financial page of the “West Australian.” . He is
also a pilot of skill and one of the bright lights of
the Aero Club.
Guildford is famous for its flowers and Mrs. C. H.
E. Manning’s garden was aglow with, roses, flowering
cactus and verdant shrubs and ferns when she
entertained the women scribes of Perth. Colonel
Manning arrived home from the service at the
South African War Memorial when the tea party
was at its height. He has an interesting collection
of souvenirs, including a B.C. coin and some Russian
jewellery.
Holiday-bound for the U.K., Ena Cockram clutched
flowers and streamers on the deck of the Mongolia.
Ena was a much-feted miss. Bonnie Spencer, Alson
Abbott and Jean Lang had bridge parties and
Marjorie Tindale poured a farewell cup of tea at
the Palace for her.
The Kalplend String Quartette won much applause
at its first recital. Fiddlers Hyman Lenzer and
James Drummond, David Powell and his viola and
’cellist Zlata Kalmikoff provided delightful chamber
music. Gertrude Hutton, who warbled in German,
Italian and English, w;ore orange satin; Miss
Kalmikoff was in greeny chiffons and dangly ear-
rings ; Nora Coalstad accompanied the songstress
in white, with quaintly embroidered little puff sleeves.
The Naval and Military Club had a housewarming
on its new premises. Supper tables were gay with
crimson blossoms, there were billiard-rooms for non-
dancers and a balcony for those who felt like an
interlude of river and moonlight. The Hobbs lady
and Mrs. Martyn, botli in black, were with their be-
medalled spouses. Mrs. Manning’s black gown showed
a glitter of jet; Frances Corbet wore green angel-
skin; shell-pink laces foamed about Hetty Forbes;
Mrs. Silverston looked nice in her cream satin; Mrs.
Donald Smith wore black laces; Mrs. Booker was
swathed in chilli-red georgettes; Mollie Mahood
danced in pink; Mrs. Geoff Drake-Brockman wa-
noticeable in her parchment laces; Joan Bessell
Browne’s choice ran to a tangee shade; Mrs. Camp-
bell Egan was in cafe-au-lait and Mrs. Henriques
favored black satin a-twinkle with jewelled
’broideries.
Pupils of Anita Fitz Gerald and John Le Tessier
gave a dramatic recital in a packed Assembly Hall.
Miss Fitz Gerald found time to play Queen Margaret
in an excerpt from “Richard III.” In “The Queen’s
Jest” talented juvenile Betty Higham became Pierre
the shepherd boy, and Maude Dingwall was queen of
a retinue of lovely ladies.
From among seven candidates Arthur Edward Finn
has been chosen Rhodes scholar for 1933. Hq was a
pupil of Perth Modern School and is in his third
year at Science at the Uni. Chemistry will be his
choice at Oxford.
A line from S. Aus.: —
At the Theatre Royal, Nora Stewart staged her
annual entertainment; over a hundred children took
part. Toe H ran the flower stall in the vestibule,
which raked in an extra £lO for the charities bene-
fiting by the show. Miss Stewart and her pupils are
also helping the Largs Bay Orphanage with a concert.
By the Orontes Kathleen Campbell and Betty
Morgan are leaving for Colombo and a visit to
Alison Sharp (Alison Thomas prior to her marriage).
The travellers are being given a series of farewell
parties, with. Mesdames Clifford Deeley, Ronald Orr,
J. H. Hill and Albyn Rankine as hostesses.
F. A. Lakeman has now made our Mission to
Seamen at the Outer Harbor an object lesson for
other Australian cities. In addition to the spacious
hall, offices and museum, to which he has contributed
ail sorts of treasures, his latest gift is the Anglican
Chapel of St. Nicholas that has just been dedicated
by the Bishop of Adelaide. Guy Makin designed it
and the fittings are carried out in Australian wood.
The Cathedral choir and a number of the clergy
were present; so were his Ex. and Lady Hore-
Ruthven. After the service Mr. Lakeman entertained
the guests at afternoon-tea.
Mrs. E. L. Noble is again visiting her parents,
Dr. and Mrs. R. H. Pulleine, of Mitcham. Mrs.
Noble’s husband is a member of the Royal Air
Force in Egypt.
The financial result of the combined dance clubs’
effort for charity in the form of a ball at the
Palais Royal resulted in £B4, which was divided
between the Ivuitpo Colony and Minda Home.
A gipsy camp cabaret is to be held in the cloisters
of the Adelaide University on December 9. The
committee which is looking after the supper arrange-
ments includes the wives of the professors.
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Gard have formed the
Adelaide School of Opera. The members are gaining
experience by holding operatic concerts.


5 hard-hitting, well-aimed
Shots in less than half
that number of seconds
...arepossible wi h the reliable
Winchester
.35-Calibre
Self-loading
Rifle
No lever, slide or bolt to operate—simply
press the trigger for each shot. Ideal for
saddle use. Sufficiently powerful to deal
effectively with buffalo and alligator.
Accurate, powerful and absolutely reliable.
To-day’s Price £lB/18/-
iPECIAL £B/B}-
MARLIN
MODEL 38
(bin. tapered octagon barrel.. . tubular
magazine of unusual design and large
capacity... .an action that operates
as though running in 0i1.... the
simplest and quickest ‘‘take-down’’
system ever devised... .specially
selected high-grade walnut pistol-grip
stock. .. .ivory bead front and elevat-
ing rear sights. .. .and ACCURACY,
for which the name "MARLIN” has
always been famous.
One of the most per-
fectly balanced .22
Repeating Rifles ever
produced ! . . .
To-day’s Price
£7/10/-
SPECIAL £4/17/6
ŵ
ẁ
High-grade
SHOT
GUNS
Reduced!
W. DAREOW (Birmingham) 12-
GAUGE 0.8.8. L. HAMMER GUN
SOin. Barrels, Hop Lever Fastening.
To-day’s Price £l5/15-
SPECIAL £7/7 -
N. R. DAVIS &L SONS 12-GAUGE
D.8.8.h. HAMMER GUN
30in. Barrels , Top Lever Fastening.
To-day’s Price £9/9/-
SPECIAL £.5/15/-
(Carriage Paid.)
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0,, Haymarket, Sydney.
MickSimmonslxd
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“The Premier Sports House of Australia.”
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: LILAC TIME.
KING’S THEATRE :
DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE in
GHOSTS.
Wanted.
FLORISTS’ SEEDLINGS.
"YY^ANTED. —Information re Sale of Kapok
Seeds in Australia. Communicate H.
CRAWFORD, 963 Pacific Highway, Pymble,
New South Wales.
Missing Friend
DANNISTER, WILFRED EWART
BEECHER, is urgently requested to
communicate with the undersigned.
CLYDE SMITH, Solicitor,
170 Phillip Street, Sydney.
ẃ
household paces
SOCIAL NOTES-ALL STATES.'
LAOYS LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD.
•• Etc - Etc. Etc. „
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON_SALE ALL STATES 62
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Saturday
is the most popular 64-page woman's
Paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
It’s up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
COMMONWEALTH
LOAN
£8,000,000
The Commonwealth is now receiving applications for
a 3| % Loan, repayable December 15, 1942.
All persons with money available for investment —from
£10 upwards— can invest in the Loan. A £10 Bond will
yield 7/6 interest yearly.
There is nothing more readily saleable than Common-
wealth Loans. This is important, as the investment can be
turned into cash at any time.
Money put into this Loan will earn interest from the
date of its lodgment—and all interest is FREE OF STATE
INCOME TAX AND COMMONWEALTH SUPER
TAX
Full particulars and application forms obtainable from
Banks, Savings Banks, Money Order Post Offices,
Members of Stock Exchanges.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra, F.C.T.
J. A. LYONS,
Treasurer.
South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
:i Anchises . . 10,000 tons, Dec. 6
*Ascanius . . 10,000 ~ Jan. 10
tThemistocles 11,500 ~ Jan. 31
tNestor .. 14,500 „ Mar. 11
* First class only. t First and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
Queensland's Great
Morning Newspaper,
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
Is Read By Those Who
Spend Most Freely!
It enjoys marked popularity in city and
country alike —a widespread distribution
that is the, desideratum of merchants and
manufacturers whose goods are everywhere
procurable. The “Daily Mail” will get
you results. It is read by all classes and
particularly by young married folks, whose
wants are many and varied. Its favorable
circulation position has been definitely
established. Rates, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
41
if
/
few
;>k
-
.
.
■:l
■
,V
i:S
DECKSPACE
ALWAYS, deckspace has
been one of the best
known features of Orient
Liners. Ample opportunities
for "outdoor” pastimes mean
so much to the enjoyment
of a voyage. Orient deckspace
evidences the Line's consider-
ation for passengers' well-
being and pleasure. This
consideration extends to
the smallest detail
of Orient ships
and service.
ẅ
20.000
TON
STEAMERS


One Punch Patsy
By Montague Grover
Sykocsis : Patsy Quirlc, Illawarra
miner and amateur middleweight
champion, turns professional. Stan
Carlisle, an artist friend, slioics Patsy
and his trainer, Buff Cody, a drawing,
The Awakening of Titania.” Buff
considers it “ ’ot stuff” j Patsy,
acknowledging its beauty, thinks it too
daring. He asks Phyllis Deane, an
attractive commercial artist, to conic
for an outing. She declines, telling
him she is sitting for Stan’s “Titania”
picture, Patsy is shocked, and she
pronounces him a wowser. He bays the
drawing and presents it to Stan. Des
Quirk gets five years for attempted
■murder during a coal strike. Patsy
fights grimly to raise money to free
his brother. But Des is quite re-
signed, Patsy is imposed upon by an
adventuress, but by following Buff’s
advice he is rid of her. De Vernay,
the Stadium’s press agent, tries to end
Phyllis’s estrangement with Patsy;
but it is Stan who brings them to-
gether again. On his advice Phyllis
takes some ad.-designs to Gaffney, Aus-
tralian sub-manager of the Toms A dver-
tising Agency. Buying a bundle, toiler
astonished delight, he sends proofs of
them to head office in Los Angeles.
Patsy has three more easy wins over
imported men; and then Phyllis re-
ceives an invitation to join the head-
office staff of the Toms Advertising
Agency. She apeepts, and crosses
the Pacific to California. Luella Gaff-
ney meets her, and they become great
friends. Phyllis is still with Mrs.
Gaffney when they read a cable that
Patsy has defeated the American
middleweight champion. Phyllis cables
congratulations. Patsy next turns his
attention to the heavyweight cham-
pionship of Australia, and, having won
it, accepts an offer to tour America.
He takes De Vernay and Buff with
him. On the Ventura De Vernay be-
comes engaged to Edna Kelogg. ' The
tourists go ut once into training camp
at Rio Nido. After Patsy's first fight
—m which he wins the championship
of the Pacific Coast —he goes to Los
Angeles, meets Phyllis and instan-
taneously becomes engaged; but they
agree not to think of a wedding until
the tour is finished. His next fight
—An Ban Diego—he wins with a single
hit, and so becomes “One Punch
Patsy.”
Chapter XNXV.
Til LA stopped at Los Angeles for three
days on the return trip, and • Luella
made the acquaintance of De Vernay
and Buff Cody. While Patsy and
were rushing about sightseeing in a heaven
of delight, a trifle modified by public recog-
nition from their broadcast photographs,
their three friends entered into a conspiracy
designed to keep Patsy’s mind on his
approaching contests. Luella persuaded
Phyllis to agree that they should exchange
only one letter a week, with no long-
distance ’phone calls or telegrams, until
Patsy had won or lost the middleweight
championship of the world. De Vernay
and Buff contrived to pledge Patsy to the
arrangement. De Vernay wondered
how he and Edna would care to be bluffed
into a similar compact. He smiled; there
are some compensations in not being able
to fight your way up to championship
heights. He realised full well that, had
Fate not taken charge of Patsy’s publicity,
it would have suffered considerably since
he first took Edna in his arms.
“It seems incomprehensible,” confessed
Phyllis to Luella when Patsy’s car had dis-
appeared on its .way to San Francisco. “A
month ago I just looked forward to seeing
that boy as an old friend—or thought I did.
Now it seems a tragedy to leave him for
a couple of months or so.”
“What about me?” cried Luella. “No-
body has any sympathy with little me,
because I happen to be an old married
woman of seven years’ standing. Does it
ever occur to you that I’m crazy about
George and that we haven’t seen one an-
other for a. year—a whole damn year?”
“Oh, I’m so sorry being so selfish! I
really never thought about it at all.”
“No,” z-eplied Luella. “And I tell you
it’s ten times as hard to do without any-
body you care for. after you’ve lived with
them, seen them every day, been at their
side in all their spare hours. It’s Hell!”
“Oh, Luella, it was terribly selfish of me
to think only of myself. I don’t know
how you’ve .stood it.”
“I’ll tell you. I just thought of the other
women whose husbands and lovers were at
the war. They had to put in a year”
“Four years, some of our Australian
women,” corrected Phyllis with some pride.
“Four years! You don’t say? I had no
idea of that. Well, fancy four years, not
only separated, but wondering every day
whether you’d. ever see them again, or
whether they’d return broken, hopeless,
mentally-wrecked or strange men from the
men you knew and loved. I thought of
what those women had passed through, and
then I guessed I was a mighty lucky little
girl. You get a think on about those
women of the war years, and then you
won’t fret so much.”
“You’re right, Luella; I’m a mighty lucky
girl—luckier than you, dear,” remarked
Phyllis after a pause. “When are you going
to see George again—have you any idea?”
“Directly I see you and Patsy settled,
Phyllis. I heard from him last mail, saying
that he’d fixed everything up for me to go
out in a couple of months, but I’ll hang
on till the great event comes off.”
“You’re not going to do that for me—
I won’t have it! You’ve done too much
for me already. Luella.”
“Look here, little girl. You’ve known me
long enough not to try to shift me when
I’ve made up my mind. What I say goes
in this household. I’m not going to leave
two plugs of dynamite lying round loose
in this Republic of mine. Somebody might
get hurt. A few weeks more won’t make
any difference.”
“You are a dear, Luella; I only hope
some of my people in Sydney’ll be as good
to you as you’ve been to me.”
“My! I’m just selfish doing what pleases
me most.”
Phyllis kept to her compact, wrote to
Patsy one letter a w r eek and received one
from him.
His third came from New Orleans, where
he was about to start training for a fight
with a colored boxer who had been winning
all along the line in l the Southern States.
Patsy had expected to meet a. negro; he
found a well-spoken, good-looking young
fellow, almost as white as himself, but in
whose family tree was a remote ancestor
who had been brought from the jungles
of the Congo—and so he was classed as
colored in accordance with American
custom.
“The cruellest part of slavery is that the
sins of our fathers—not their fathers—are
visited on the children even to the twentieth
generation,” said De Vernay. “Have you
noticed the girls—the “high yallers” and
“golden browns,” as they call them? They’re
probably the most, beautiful women in the
world, and anywhere outside America would
be regarded as pure Caucasion. But no
white man can marry one of them; he’d be
outcast as well. They’ve got to marry
colored people, including hundred per cent,
niggers, when they’re probably about ten
per cent, themselves.”
Patsy liked Absolom Peters, his adver-
sary; he got to know him better than any
of his previous opponents, and he felt
genuinely sorry that he had to stop his
onward march to fame and fortune. This
he did in the ninth round, before a house
that, established a record for Louisiana.
They put in a fortnight in the quaint old
French city before they made their w T ay
northward through Birmingham and Atlanta
'arid Washington, D.C., to Philadelphia, there
to ‘ spend 'a week at Atlantic City. The
match with Hooker Fenner for the world’s
championship was fixed to take place in
New York six weeks after' the New Orleans
fight. They swam and sunbaked and
danced and saw the sights along the board-
walk without tiring, and were regretful when
they had to take the train to New York.
Neither Patsy nor De Vernay permitted
his love, affair to interfere with the busi-
ness in hand or the pleasures that came
his way, but they were sobered. Patsy
had lost his usual lightness of heart, and
Do Vernay no longer delivered himself of
philosophical monologues. Buff Cody was
the odd man out. He yawned and longed
for the camp at Ben Buckler. The pictur-
esqueness of New Orleans, the glorious sur-
roundings of Atlantic City, which had
raised a mighty joy-centre on a sand flat,
the marble dignity of Washington and the
historic interests of Philadelphia alike failed
to take from Buff Cody the longing he felt
for the surf of Ben Buckler and the slum-
land declivities of ; the ’Loo. Of the three,
he was the most sorrowful. Even the
majestic skyline of New’ York itself, with
its architectural apotheosis of the vertical,
won from him neither praise nor censure.
Buff, like the abbe in the Terror, “just
lived.”
They were located at the Pennsylvania
for the week that elapsed before they
started serious training once again at Bear
Mountain. This was a holiday, largely.
They went the round of sporting rooms in
newspaper offices until they lost their bear-
ings: they did Central Park, saw Old
Masters at the Metropolitan Museum and
dinosaurs’ eggs at the Natural History.
They motored over Westchester county,
ascended the Woolworth Tower, breakfasted
at automats, lunched at Child’s and had
dinner at eccentric' restaurants in Green-
vvich Village. Buff Cody was more thrilled
by the automats than anything of late,
until he went to Coney Island. There his
eyes bulged, his moustaches grew almost
Prussian, his figure regained the erectness
of youth. He became himself again. He
gazed pop-eyed at the revolving barrel, the
bump-the-bumps and the rest of the joyous
inanities which acted as an additional excit-
ant to an already excited Youth, and pulled
up before the lingerie display of the
spinning wheel.
“Come on, yous; I’m in this lot,” he
cried, putting down the money for three
tickets. Patsy and De Vernay followed
him down the steps and joined the dozen
people seated in the centre.
“At last,” cried De Vernay, “I feel my-
self a hundred per cent. American. I have
joined the Rotarians.”
Faster and faster the wheel spun. One
by one the girls were thrown from the
seat to whiz grotesquely to the barrier. Patsy
felt his hold give and he slithered over the
polished surface. De Vernay and others
followed until only Buff Cody and one of
the girls were left. The wheel was now
revolving at a high speed and Buff felt
the girl move. He reached out to hold her,
and the inevitable happened. Buff and the
damsel spun together to the barrier. Wild
shrieks arose from the onlookers above;
never in the history of Coney had there
been such revelations—a source of delirious
delight to the spectators and of overwhelm-
ing embarrassment to the victim. Buff
Cody disengaged himself from the tangle
into which they had been thrown. The
girl sat up, arranged her skirts and blushed.
But her blushes were pale beside those of
Buff Cody. He was scarlet to the nape of
his neck.
“I beg your pardon, Miss,” he faltered.
It had not been Buff’s fault in any way,
but he felt guilty, with the eyes of two
hundred people on them and the knowledge
that the girl was eager to hide herself any-
where.
“That’s all right, big boy,” she gasped.
“If you’d guarantee to do that every
night. Cert,” called one of her companions,
“you’d be pulling down a big salary here.”
“And the people who made those step-
ins’d hand you three cents on every sale,”
laughed the other.
They jumped up, she seized Buff by the
arm and they rushed into the crowd at the
exit. Outside the gate they joined De
Vernay and Patsy and the two other girls,
whose names, it appeared from their con-
versation, were Ola and Jill.
In a few moments they had mixed with
the crowd and Gert was no longer worried
by the stares and laughter of groups of
sniggering youths. “Overalls for mine next
time I come to Coney,” observed Gert. “I’ll
never grudge the ten cents again.”
“Why rob the deserving poor of a long-
waited spectacle?” remarked De Vernay.
“Such a remark Verges on the uncharitable,
and charity covers a multitude of sins. It
uncovers, too, a multitude of shins.”
“Well, thank you so much for what you’ve
done for me,” said Gert to Buff.
“It’s nothin’,” replied Buff, modestß’. “I’d
do it fur any young lady.”
“Now, you’re not nice to say a thing
like that,” pouted Gert.
“I never meant no offence,” said Buff
with dead seriousness.
“You oughta said, ‘l’d do it for you, but
I wouldn’t for anybody else’,” explained
Gert.
“That’s what I meant,” said Buff.
Gert smiled. “Well, take me on the
bump-the-bumps and I’ll forgive you.”
The six of them spent ten minutes slither-
ing down the slope of the bump-the-bumps.
They rolled joyously in the spinning barrel,
munched hot-dogs and drank orange juice
at the stalls, and finished the evening in
the dancing booth. The three girls were
good-looking specimens of New Yorkers,
bright, alert, full of the wise saws of Man-
hattan, utterly unmoral, but utterly un-
mercenary, though certainly not averse to
a good time.
“The grisette knows neither time nor
latitude, Patsy,” commented De Vernay as
they parted with the girls at the Grand
Central and left Buff to see Gert home.
“But for their language and their manner
these three might have come straight out of
Montmartre or straight from the Manly
boat. If we could put the time-machine
into reverse we would find their counter-
parts in Elizabethan England or in Peri-
clean Athens. They are eternal—a gift to
humanity, a proof of the. wisdom and kind-
liness of Providence.”
“Not baddies,” agreed Patsy, “If I wasn’t
thinking of somebody else too much I’d
have seen the night through.”
“You’re mistaken, Patsy; you forget that
there is a divinity that shapes the ends of
successful pugilists; in your case a divinity
named Buff Cody, a severe critic, a stern
moralist, a very wowser when there is any
suggestion of amorous dalliance on the
part of his charges.”
“But'where’s Buff now?” demanded Patsy.
“It’s time he was back.”
“It looks suspiciously as if the Moralist
had fallen from grace,” remarked De Vernay
as they went to bed.
Chapter XXXVI.
Buff Cody made a blushful entrance to
the breakfast room next morning. He
waited for De Vernay and Patsy to revile
him for his lapse. They simply stared at
him and left the opening to him.
“I’m sorry 1 didn’t git ’ome las’ night."
he began. "I’ve ’ad breakfast,” he added to
the waiter. "But Gert’s an awful nice girl
—looked after me like a mother she did:
give me breakfast an’ everything. 1 didn’t
intend ter slip yous blokes up, but when I
got with ’er she was so decent an’ all.”
“Lovely Thais sits beside thee; take the
goods the gods provide thee,” quoted Do
Vernay.
“That’s right,”. assented Buff. “I s’pose
yer’ve all bin through it,” he mused. “I’d
like ter see that there girl again,” he
observed after a pause. “She works in a
fur store on th’ East Side. Whur’s that?"
“At the risk of being dictatorial, might
I suggest that this grand passion be resumed
after the fight?” protested De Vernay.
“We’re running a boxing contest, not a
grand opera.”
“That’s right,” agreed Buff. “But I got
her address.”
That afternoon they motored out to
Bear Mountain, occupied their camp and in-
spected the sparring -partners who had
been provided by their New York agents.
They were three likely-looking lads, younger
and less battered than the average chopping
blocks of champion pugilists. One, Hamil-
ton Yann, was a student at New York City
University, who chose the profession of
sparring partner as a means of carrying him
through the vacation until he could resume
his study of law. Yann had no aspirations
towards pugilistic greatness; his aim was
to be on the Supreme Court judiciary, and
the punches he gave and took were merely
means to an end.
They found, among' the vacationists at
Bear Mountain, the usual collection of uni-
versity athletes. Dozens of these deemed
it an honor to act as honorary sparring
partners, and three or four were men of
value. The work of preparing for the big
fight brought hundreds to the camp daily.
The New York daily and sporting papers
had representatives living at the inn, and
the publicity given to the training was in
itself an attraction which crowded all the
holiday resorts in the vicinity.
Had Patsy and De Vernay not given way
to kisses of impulse, that camp would hare
been a joyous adventure instead of being
merely the setting of a task to be accom-
plished. The young men were companion-
able and of diverse tastes, the young women
were good to look at and intelligent, the
older men and women were undignified and
ready to meet youth on equal terms. But
Patsy was thinking of Phyllis and De
Vernay was thinking of Edna, and the
sadness of Buff Cody led them to the con-
jecture that he was thinking of Gert. When
a ’phone message came demanding that
Buff return to New York to complete some
overlooked part of legal ritual, he did not
rail at the Fates in accordance with his
custom at interruptions. He even smiled.
“I fear for the future of our ascetic
friend,” observed De Vernay.
“What’s that?” demanded Buff.
“I was saying that I fear for your future.
You are too philosophical, too unmoved,
too callous in the way you received that
’phone message. You should have cursed
the gods, torn your hair, rent your gar-
ments —in plain Australian, you should have
roused like billy-o.”
“What for?”
“Because that is your invariable proce-
dure when anything interferes with the even
tenor of your training. I suspect that a
certain damsel in a First Avenue fur shop
is responsible for the placidity of your
demeanor,” replied De Vernay.
Buff sighed. “She’s a nice girl. She
gimme scrambled eggs fur breakfast. I’ll
see her when I go down, a course I will. ’
It was next day when Buff returned. He
had seen Gert, but he was still moody. Sud-
denly he realised that both De Vernay and
Patsy were moody, too. He gave no thought
to De Vernay; he could depress himself
into an asylum for all that Buff cared pro-
fessionally. But for Patsy to be moody
just on the eve of the biggest fight of his
career was impending tragedy. Buff deter-
mined to be jolly, jocund, humorous. To
do him justice, he put Gert out of his
mind, and tried hard. But it was useless.
At any time, Buff was a man who joked
with difficulty, and with Patsy thinking,
not of the fight, but of the time he would
see Phyllis again, he was a ghastly failure
as a humorist. Nor did De Vernay’s mental
attitude help matters. He was no more
inclined to respond to Buff’s quips and
cranks than Patsy himself. Buff longed for
Bert Burnett to appear from the air. He
appealed to several of the lads with whom
he had grown friendly to cheer up Patsy
and keep his mind off his love affair. But
they also proved powerless to effect the
cure.
Not that Patsv neglected his work. He
had never trained more conscientiously. He
was in the pink of condition, and while
he had lost none of the brilliancy which
made him champion in Australia, he had
mastered the peculiarities of American box-
ing so well that they appeared to come
natural to him. But the moment the train-


Si
! iii
m.
Ifiis
liW
1
:
iilliiii
II
AROy
a -\i
IWMMWi
■Hivia
it imm
Itll
nil
M
1 ■■
mm
©i
■^o.^sSir‘ T-ypsa^shfi
Si
1:
m
mmiimmmM
•• - --■ ■ .
iii,
li^pi.
. Hi S 'fin ' '
lisps
PION RESERVE
," - -;J ;;i/ ' V *V 'T~ t
IliaiililSifili iillttSlß II WMiim V m
PORT
■OWN BOTTLING '■ !• jSjjj^Kff
fMAS HAROY £ SONS LTD j B'. -s'MMm
FaiOE.MELBOURNE ISYOWfcY ;•-•■:!
SOUTH AUtTRALIAW WINE..,.
~NETiriHTCriuio 070 ~
. ... - ■■ v; .- : r -;■ ,
“***■■ if
. ■. : e m Is
E I
ms*.
ios
a
. r . : ■■
»»
“.. . ‘ -' ~
M!
mm
■ %
■
i fe mm
HARDY’S
TINTARA WINES
The Champion Reserve (Gold
Label) qualities, in particular, pos-
sess that perfect balance for which
a connoisseur always seeks.
Extracted from the rich grapes grown
on the chosen vineyards of South
Australia, they are “crisp ’ (not-
withstanding their great age),
rich in flavor and have an
exquisite bouquet.
That Hardy’s place wines of
such high quality before the
public at such very moderate
prices sets their competitors
furiously to think.
Obtainable from all hotels and licensed
stores specialising in the distribution /
of the higher grades of wines. / 1
HARDY’S WINES OF TINTARA
w
Son succeeds father at
Stuarts—preserves the
unbroken line ofhered=
itary skilly of the crafts=
mans simple pride in
honest work. On every
piece is etched the reg-
istered name Stuart, so
that wherever beautU
ful glass is sold/ this
lovely English Crystal
is known and loved.
And yet it may be
bought for as little as
a few shillings.
A
GENUINE
EXAMPLE.
i jyy
If » mM * *t|
111
IMfc'
5*
ass
£
311
hJ&Smi
i&&
■
rt
■i
Be sure to look for the registered name cc Stuart ” on every piece you buy.
ing was over, Patsy was not the same spare-
time Patsy that Ben Buckler had known.
Buff was growing apprehensive. Then a
cable arrived from Sydney. Patsy scanned
it, gave a wild hooray and cast it into the
U “Read it; read At!” he yelled, tears
starting from his eyes, the muscles of his
face quivering.
De Vernay picked up the slip of paper
and read:
“Patsy Quirk boxer new york des released
Carlisle.”
He and Buff shook Patsy’s hand, while
the score or more of onlookers wondered
what had happened.
“Good news from home?” queried one
of the college boys.
“That ain’t no name for it,” replied Buff.
“It‘s aw right now. Yer can pile a few
dollars more on my boy if yer want ter
clean up a bit. He’s gointer win.”
A load was moved from Buff’s chest. The
one thing he had feared had been swept
away by that cable. Thoughts of Phyllis
would no longer take possession of Patsy;
his thoughts were now all for his brother,
who, at that moment, would be back at
Illawarra with Dad and Mum. He won-
dered how it had been worked. But what
did it matter now? Des was a free man
again. That was all there was in the world.
His fight—he would try to win, do his
utmost to win. But what did it signify if
he were beaten? Des was free!
For the last three days of the camp, Patsy
was the life and soul of the place—the
same light-hearted lad who had played
around the hills of Illawarra. He joined in
the games of the boys and girls, spent as
much of his evenings in dancing as Buff
would permit, and when they struck camp
to return to New York he was the happiest
man of all the gay company which assem-
bled to cheer him on his way.
They had scarcely made themselves com-
fortable in New York when another cable
arrived from Stan in Sydney. This was a
week-end cable and told at length the
reasons for Des being released. Young
Jackson—a patient in an insane asylum
since the affray at the mine—had been
operated upon and made a complete
recovery. For the first time he had realised
what had happened, and, knowing that Des
Quirk had not thrown the casting at him or
anyone in particular, had taken the initia-
tive towards obtaining him his release.
The movement had been in operation for
some weeks, but Stan had refrained from
sending Patsy any news until it had been
attended with success. Des, it concluded,
had announced his intention of leading a
religious life.
“Well,” said Patsy, leaning back in the
lounge of the hotel as he finished reading
the cable, “Des out of gaol, Phyllis going
to marry me, money in the bank! Cripes,
if I only win the fight I’ll have everything
in the world a man can ask for.”
“Too right,” said Buff. “Th’ influence
of a good woman’s ennoblin’ ter man.”
Chapter XXXVII.
Madison Square Garden was filled to the
topmost seat. The whole Republic seemed
to be there. A list of those in the front
seats read like “Who’s Who in America.”
Shoulder to shoulder with them were trans-
Atlantic visitors, and a score of times dur-
ing the night some old schoolfellow or
college-fellow or club-fellow or regiment-
fellow stepped up and slapped De Vernay
on the shoulder. A great part of import-
ant England seemed to be there, as well as
all important America. From one far
corner of the bleachers rang a succession of
loud coo-ees when the cheering for Patsy
died down. Patsy turned in the direction
of the place where the handful of Aus-
tralians had gathered and waved a glove
to them. The cheers for Patsy from the
rest of the spectators were complimentary;
those for Fenner came from the heart, and
could be heard ringing down Fifth Avenue
almost to the forties. Everybody was at
concert pitch.
Patsy had not seen Fenner stripped be-
fore this night. He summed him up as
they stood in their corners awaiting the
gong. He appeared to be the usual well-
built athlete, much the same in form as
Patsy himself. Facially he was a good-
looking lad with dark curly hair, his eyes
close and determined-looking. Fenner
scrutinised Patsy similarly. He concluded
that this Australian would be none too
easy. His record, apart from his appear-
ance, showed that. Fenner had unpleasant
memories of his contest with Bark McCabe
and reckoned himself lucky to have got
through that fight with a decision in his
favor.
From the first round it was plain that
there was nothing to choose between the
men. Both were highly skilled, and the
skill of the one was matched with the skill
of the other seemingly in every particular.
They were both hard hitters. It was rarely
that either could pierce the other’s defence,
but when he succeeded the blow was made
to tell.
East almost to the East River, West
almost to the Hudson, the roar from the
ringside swept along Twenty-third street
over the roar of New York as Fenner, time
to his nicknarne, hooked Patlsy in the
second round and sent him to the floor.
The Australian comer howled with frenzy
when a body blow in the fourth forced
Fenner to cling to Patsy till the gong
bounded. As the rounds entered double
figures both men had been down half a
dozen times; a clip on the jaw in the
eighth had forced Patsy to take his nine
seconds, not prone, but kneeling; Fenner
had sprawled at full length from one of
Patsy’s straight lefts flush on the mouth in
the ninth.
Both men were bleeding freely; both were
obviously weak with the vigor of the fight.
The first minute of each round saw some
solid punching, but they tailed away to-
wards the finish and, when blows got home,
they did little damage. Only the referee
knew which boxer led; the Australians were
sure that Patsy was winning by a street;
the Americans were equally sure that
Fenner was an undoubted winner.
Then, in the fifteenth, when it looked a
certainty that the decision would be left
to the referee, Fenner came from his
corner, worked Patsy into a good position
and swung a mighty left. Patsy ducked
just in time to convert a knock-out blow
into a graze, rose with a short half-arm jolt
and landed on Fenner’s chin. Fenner
staggered. Patsy took after him to finish
the fight. He landed him right and left.
But Patsy’s blows had lost their fire. He
could not land a heavy punch, and Fenner’s
courage was so great that he refused to
quit. He fell against the ropes, smother-
ing as well as he was able. Patsy, hitting
with his body muscles rather than with the
tired arms, punched him right and left. He
became aware of the referee touching him
on the shoulder. He turned. Beside the
referee was a man in policeman’s uniform.
The fight had been stopped. The referee
raised Patsy’s hand, and the Australian
corner rose in a delirium of delight and
made inarticulate noises.
Buff Cody was in the ring to shake
Patsy’s hand, but Patsy had not the
strength to press it. He fell on Buff and
was half carried to his corner. He was
just one degree less exhausted than 'his
adversary.
Five minutes had elapsed before he was
able to rise from his seat in the comer and
realise that he was champion of the world.
He also realised various things that had
escaped his notice during the last twenty
minutes —the thousands of people who sur-
rounded him, the hum of debate, the occa-
sional cheers and coo-ees which still arose
from the spot where his fellow-countrymen
had gathered. He was like a man waking
up in the morning.
Fenner had made a quicker recovery than
Patsy. He was conversing with his seconds
when Patsy walked across the ring with
some difficulty to take his hand.
“Well, Patsy,” said Fenner, “I guess you
won it fairly. It’s a disappointment to me,
but it’s got to come to all of us some time.
But.l’m pretty well fixed, so I’m not break-
ing my heart.”
“Glad of that,” replied Patsy. “I don t
care to profit by another man’s loss. It
was a good fight—anybody’s—and you
fought fair.”
“And I’m ready for you again any time
you like,” called Fenner as Patsy turned.
“In Sydney next time,” replied Patsy.
“Sydney or Hell, I’m willing,” retorted
Fenner.
“’Struth!” said Patsy as he looked m
the mirror in the dressing-room, “I’m glad
it wasn’t in Los Angeles. Phyllis wouldn’t
know me.”
{To be continued next iceelc.)
Hospital Impressions.
Con valescen ce.
The sun now rises on another world;
Gone are the hideous shadow shapes that
mocked
Terror and pain, to lowest limbo hurled
(God send!), in strangling, last embraces
locked.
Now Nature’s, cornucopia pours the wealth
Of her most priceless gift, returning health.
Vanished, yet lingering in narcotic mist.
That much-maligned but Heaven-sent skil-
ful pair,
Surgeon and acolyte anaesthetist. .
You stay, O bedside leech, but not so fair
Are you as this your ally that I see
Behind your shoulder, Vis med. Naturae.
Now is the season mind and hand combine,
Or should, they say, to clear the mental
decks
Where once Procrastination set his sign
On duties undischarged and doubts that
vex.
Yet vagrant thoughts predominate mean-
while ;
Do all the nurses have that charming smile?
The generous sunshine floods my balconette;
The harbor waters sparkle on the sand;
While soft-toned voices pleasantly abet,
My book and pen evade my nerveless hand.
Sensations strangely soothing lull my brain ;
Oh, hang it all, I’m off to sleep again!
The rising saps new energies attest
And convalescence puts upon probation
Endowments, powers, demanding of the best
Whether for self or problems of the nation.
Yet here’s my only thought, as I’m a sinner:
Shall I take Hebe surfing or to dinner?
“Manana” says the Spaniard; perhaps to-
morrow
Will serve to plan, maybe begin to fashion
That pregnant poem plumbing depths of
sorrow
And touching empyrean heights of passion.
To-morrow then, profounder themes and
verses.
A deuc&d pretty girl this little nurse is!
S.A.
BILL O’C.


YOUR DOCTOR'S FIRST QUESTION
Ml.
wmmm
wim
mm
DONT NEGLECT
CONSTIPATION
Children love it.
Figsen the gentle
laxative.
Once you try Figsen, you will know what thousands of persons
have already discovered that FIGSEN CORRECTS
CONSTIPATION. Figsen is easy to take—it does not purge
or gripe—it does not tend to promote the “laxative habit.”
Figsen assists the bowels to perform their natural function.
It is equally effective, equally safe for young or old, strong
or delicate. Figsen is a good friend which should always be
with you.
Sold and recommended by your chemist.
L
NX
FIGSEN
FOR CONSTIPATION
ŵ
World's Greatest
Travel System
Through Canada's
Rockies to England
THERE'S nothing to
compare with the
daylight journey
through this region of
scenic grandeur.
i i \ HOLIDAY in itself” is
x\. the verdict of those
who have travelled the Canadian
Pacific route. Vast panoramas —
a world of snow peaks and glaciers,
of flower-strewn valleys and scented
forests, waterfalls and rushing rivers.
View this masterpiece of nature from
a comfortable lounge observation car
on a C.P.R. train, or, if you wish,
motor through the Rockies over per-
fect roads. Stop-overs at Lake Louise
and Banff easily arranged—city hotel
service and thrilling pleasures entice
hundreds of visitors each year to these
famous resorts. The C.P.R. route is
through the best of Canada’s Rockies.
Write for illustrated booklets.
CANADIAN PACIFIC
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
e
è
Trains, Steamers
Hotels
'32/9
Trochus Island.
BY VANCE PALMER.
WHENEVER McGroarty, looking out
from liis strip of garden above the
beach, saw the weather-darkened
sails and green hull of the Tessa making
for the channel, curious vibrations of under-
ground passion were set working in him and
he hobbled in to his eyrie on the verandah
from which he kept his telescope trained
like a gun. If lie could have put a shell
through the frail hull it would have given
him relief.
“That nigger again ! Bringing his crowd
of myalls here to make a little hell of the
island. One of these days I’ll”
Vague threats rumbled through him as
he put his eye to the glass and watched
the Tessa fold her wings like a bird, taking
up an anchorage a hundred yards out from
the beach'. Through the glass he could even
seo the features of Monty as he stood with
one hand on the mast giving instructions
to the boys—stout, powerfully-built, with
cropped, grizzled hair showing beneath his
cap, and shrewd eyes that had a lurking
devil in them. A tough customer, Monty,
who had climbed up in the world since the
days when he worked on a Japanese lugger!
lie now owned as much property as most
of the white people in the little sugar-port
on the mainland, and wouldn’t give place
on the footpath to anyone.
McGroarty’s greetings when they met
later on the beach only veiled thinly the
secret war between them: “Well,' back
again? Want to make a second home of
this island, don’t you?”
Monty’s smile flashed with apparent ami-
ability from the dark of his face: “Might
be. Not a bad home, this place, when the
weather’s rough outside. You think so, too.
eh ?”
McGroarty’s only answer was a grunt.
Then, as he took his leave, he flung back
over his shoulder: “Tell those boys of yours
that if they use any dynamite in the
lagoon I’ll lay an information against them.
Yes, I’m not merely talking this time. I’ve
warned them before.”
Monty laughed easily : “Dynamite ! They
wouldn’t find none of that stuff aboard a
boat of mine.” But his eyes told the old
man to go and drool over his butterflies
in the tin hut on the headland.
With all matters of law that concerned
him at the tips of his fingers, he knew
McGroarty’s rights as well as his own. The
old man had a lease of the two square
miles of island that gave him some of the
powers of a ranger; and it was as well not
to offer him any direct chance of using
his powers. But when it came to a con-
flict of will, Monty, with his craft, his physi-
cal strength, his reserves of dark violence,
felt he could grind the other into powder.
And McGroarty, making back to his strip
of clearing, somehow felt that, too. Monty’s
easy smile, with its flash of gold fillings,
sometimes kept him awake at nights. He
hated this Torres Strait islander, who had
all the intelligence of a white man and
all the devious cunning of a black.
The sound of Monty’s double-barrelled
gun remained in his ears for weeks after
the boat had gone. The black devil—kill-
ing things just for the sake of killing them!
They ought to drive him back to where he
came from.
People on the mainland said that
McGroarty was a cranky old chap who had
gone off his head and turned hatter because
his wife had left him; but they did not
understand the deep happiness he drew
from the life on the island. There was his
small strip of cultivation, the patches of
jungle-growth filled with birds that had
never become man-shy, the absorbing areas
of reef at low-tide. From daylight to dark
he pottered about collecting specimens and
arranging them, and at night he made
exhaustive notes in his diary. He could
sit for hours on the rickety jetty watching
the red cod and parrot-fish among the coral,
or the sardines moving over the face of
the water like a cloud. At such times his
sun-blistered face, with its pale eyes and
drooping moustache, had tlie solemn intent-
ness of a crab contemplating a piece of
swaying weed. He could never have the
same affection for a human being again as
he had for the island and the reef.
But there was the sinister figure of
Monty, forming a centre of irritation in
his mind like a sharp stone in a shoe. All
his deep content with life was gone as
soon as the blistered hull of the Tessa
appeared above the horizon.
One day, when he was lying hidden in
the jungle, watching two sunbirds at work
on a nest, he heard a loud, ground-shaking
report quite near him. Quickly he broke
from his cover to the beach. He had not
seen Monty’s boat come in, but there it
was, lying with a coral anchor out at the
other end of the island. And there on the
beach, his gun upraised and his eyes fixed
on the sky, was Monty, while three or four
black heads showed in the water.
McGroarty took in the situation at a
glance, and a purplish flush spread over
his face as he came along the beach.
Monty met him with a smile. “Had a
Pot at a sea-hawk.” he said easily. “Cheeky
fellows those birds are.”
The storm burst in McGroarty. “Cheeky,
is it!” lie roared. “Anyway they’re not
liars. Trying to bluff me you fired a shot!
Why, there’s not even a shell in your gun.
And what killed those fish in the water?”
He pointed to the swarms of sardines that
were floating belly upward, the blackboys
gathering them in with scoops.
Monty gave a mocking smile as lie took
a live cartridge from his pocket and slipped
it into the breech. “Well? What about
it?” he asked with maddening calmness.
“You’ll see,’’ McGroarty told him.
He could not trust himself to argue.
Behind the smile in Monty’s eyes was a
lurking menace, a slight tension in the
hands that fingered the gun. McGroarty
was not ccuite easy about what might happen
behind Ifis turned back as lie shambled off
along the beach; but brooding that night
upon the verandah he determined to put a
stop to Monty’s depredations. Even yet
he had some influence with the police and
the council in the port. He would go across
to the mainland and see them; and if they
didn’t act....
A week later, when Monty was fixing
his boat at tlie wharves of the inlet, the
sergeant of police wandered down and said
with bland authority:
“You’ve got to steer clear of Trochus
Island after this, Monty. , Understand?
There’s plenty of other fishing-grounds along
the Reef, so keep well away from it.”
Monty looked up, his dark eyes smoky
with a growing indignation.
“What’s the joke, Sergeant? That old
mollyhawk over there been telling lies about
me?”
“Never you mind. Trochus Island’s out
of bounds for you, from now on. That’s
all you’ve got to remember. It’s an order,
mind you. You don’t want to lose your
license ?”
The tone of his voice showed Monty that
there was no room for argument. He had
always made a point of keeping in with
the police: he knew that, to some extent,
he was an outsider, living at the little
sugar-port on sufferance. They could make
the place too warm to hold him if they
liked. But as he put out to sea, anger
spread through him like some slow poison
in the blood.
“All right,” he muttered to his boys.
“That ol’ crab put me away, did he? Told
’em to warn me off. Well, he don’t know
Monty. I’ll get him. Even if I have to
wait a year—might be two. You see.”
With all the reef in front of him it
seemed as if he were being shut out of the
one place he really hankered after. Trochus
Island was a handy refuge for fishermen
to run to when dirty weather blew up out
of the south-east. It provided good shelter,
and there were always grey snapper to be
found on the weedy flats inside the reef
when fishing was bad outside.
But the knowledge of that was not what
exasperated Monty. He had been beaten
in his conflict with McGroarty, injured in
the very centre of liis pride. They had not
taken him to court for an infringement of
the law, but warned him off like a nigger.
The dark violence that in the easy days of
his prosperity had been sleeping in his
blood, like a coiled-up snake began to lift
its head again. “I’ll get him,” was his
refrain. And the loungers along the shore-
front said with uneasy conviction: “It’s
not just froth—he’ll get the old man all
right. Not like a white man, Monty ain’t;
remembers everything that ever happened to
him and lies awake thinking of how he
can get his own back. Somebody ought to
warn old Mac.”
But no one did. The old hatter, released
from the thorn that had been pricking him,
went on pottering about among his paw-
paws and vegetables, wading among the
coral of the reef with a fish'-spear, writing
his lengthy notes in the diary. He did not
even load the revolver he had bought on his
last visit to the mainland.
One day the crew of the Tessa, fishing
off a remote cay, saw clouds the hue of
bruised flesh appear on the horizon, and at
the same time felt the bare rigging vib-
rate with a faint hum. When the anchor
had been heaved up, and they were spinning
over a sea that was beginning to show
angry caps of white, Monty said with an
abrupt decisiveness “Make for Trochus
Island.”
Perhaps it was something in the weather
that roused an ugly mood in him. The
dark clouds had taken on a greenish tinge;
there was a sour froth on the sea. He
stood in the bows, watching the low jungle
of the island take shape, a queer glitter in
his 'eyes. His lips were moving to form
words, but no sound came from them.
Once inside the reef, he unloosed the flattie
and rowed for the beach, his tongue free
again as the spray blew about him. It
was almost as if he had McGroarty at the
other end of the boat.
“Thought I wouldn’t come back, eh?
Thought I’d let them bluff me into keeping
away from you? Well, you don’t know
Monty. One year, two year—it don't
matter. Oh, yes, I know how to wait till
the right time.”
He left the flattie on the beach and strode
up to the house, The blow had eased off,
and the greenish-black clouds were passing
round to the east; but so full was Monty
of what was happening inside him that he
hardly noticed them.
There was no one moving at the house.
He hesitated for a while by the tank, and
then went along the verandah, stepping
with light feet on the creaking boards.
When he reached the window he pressed
Ins forehead against the glass.
McGroarty was lying on the sofa just
beneath him, and there was something in
his face that showed he was conscious of
every sound.
For a while they stared at one another.
The old man could not speak, but his eyes,
riveted on the dark face flattened against
the pane, said plainly enough:
“Well, you black devil! Got me where
you want me now, haven’t you? I don’t
care. I’m through.”
He had been lying for over a week with
a poisoned leg, and there was only a flicker
of consciousness left in him. A mouldy
heel of loaf was on the floor beside him,
a pannikin of unfasted tea.
Monty, gazing through the window, felt
the passion leak out of him, leaving him
flat and depressed. There was an empti-
ness in his mind as he unlocked the door
and went inside.
A little later, when he went down to
the beach, the sight of the boys coming
ashore with their fish-spears unloosed his
bottled-up feelings.
“Hey, what d’you think the game is?”
he roared. “Think we’re going to put in
here for a week with all that fish aboard?
Not likely; we’re making for home right
away. Blow? This ain’t a blow. Two of
you come up to the house here. We got
to carry that old crab down to the boat.”
Something had been released in him. He
was full of quips and good-humor as he
helped to row McGroarty out to the lugger
and make him comfortable with blankets
and coils of rope. A ribald song roared
from his throat as he himself took the
tiller and met the big seas that swept down
on them outside the entrance of the channel.
What had been liberated in him was his
conception of himself as a white man —
Torres Monty, owner of two boats and a
house in the main street, a good fellow
with no bad blood in him! In the eyes
of the people in the port he could see that
image of himself as soon as the story got
about.
Six weeks later, McGroarty, coming out
of hospital, was embarrassed to meet him
on the water-front, a smile on his fattish
face, a cigar between his gold-filled teeth.
After a few speculations about weather
and the arrival of the kingfish on the coast,
the old man said jerkily: “And come in
next time you’re near the island. Some
things I want to show you—bugle and hel-
met shells.”
Monty gave a complacent chuckle.
“Thanks. But I don’t guess I’ll be going
out on the reef no more—don’t have to.
Handling the fish on shore that’s my line
from now on. Opened a place of my own
last week; the hotels told me they’d stick
to me if I did.”
And taking a leather case from his
pocket he patronisingly offered McGroarty
a cigar.
New Life.
When I go holidaying
In the gay and golden weather,
Down leafy pathways straying,
Where shine and shade are playing
At hide-and-seek together,
I go where none may find me,
And leave all things behind me
That fret and tire and tether.
How different are green valleys
. And mountain-’tops unclouded,
Where beauty daylong dallies,
From narrow slums and alleys,
Where life, like death, goes shrouded!
Fine ’tis to take it easy
In spaces, blithe and breezy,
Un-elbowed and uncrowded!
To all who wane and wither
With toiling, thinking, caring,
There Nature says, “Hie hither.”
And if they go but thither,
To her green haunts repairing,
Tall hill and gracious hollow,
Good balsam they shall swallow,
And grow in strength and daring.
N.S.W.
BRIGILOW.


Ask for
ty
Scots 0^
~'"=u
nrcallums
ESTABLISHED iBu 7,
this fine old Scots Whisky
has 120 years' reputation for
outstanding quality. It is skil-
fully blended for mellowness
and flavour and no better
whisky can be produced.
PERFECTION
SCOTS WHISKY
D.IJ M°CALLUM IZS BD/NBUR QH.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE
HOUSE OF Me CALL UM :
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
THOMAS BROWN & SON, LTD., Townsville
and Rockhampton.
NORTHERN AUSTRALIAN BREWERIES,
LTD., Cairns.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
fyuLletCn
Every week since 1 880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia 12
Overseas— I 2
months, 24/-; 6
months, 30/-; 6
e
3 months, 7/-
3 months, 8/-
Vf
0
0
\V
0°
IV
e
5 6 &
■
\V
•A"
■ <o*o*
*» “&V" 1
ivy.
V <^£
0^


MON
DIEU
BY APPOINTMENT TO
HIS ' MAJ ESTY.TH E 'KING!
lEN
BY APPOINTMENT TO
[H.fcH.THE PRINCE OF WALES
LUBRICATE
EMPIRE
TRADE
with
WAKEFIELD
MOTOR OIL
A Grade for Every
Motoring and
Engineering Purpose
Buy from your local garage
C.C WAKEFIELD & CO. LTD. {The All British Firm)
