

’Evidence in
BLACK.-!
fmEOu>
SCOT€UWHim
Bt.ACK 1
WH
GLASGOW
ft LONOOH
■
&
m
- ■:
- _______
I
JT 6f
ffrtsftfleri. to H. M- ANe YM
mmm ms
:£•'
/
/
:
- '
-A
!
. or scortANo
SCOTCH WHISKY
HACK* WHITE
SPECIAL. BUENO Or .
Choice oto scotch whisky
Scotch whisky. o»stiluers
GUSSOWtiONOOH
qzS-
FUHD
BINT
The first appreciative sip
tells you that here indeed
is "a special blend of
choice old Scotch Whisky”
•—and the case for Black
& White is complete.
Bottled under Supervision of the Commonwealth Customs
The Bulletin
WL> ownd CoijuJbai' — WkitfaiAtf T—Pam 8
Vol. 53.—N0. 2728.
Wednesday, May 25, 1932*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


o uR Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
with full terms and particulars, post
free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
è
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence Colleae
100 Russell Street, Melbourne ’
Please send without obligation . your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised m the Sydney Bulletin. 1 > as
My Name .
ill v Address
S.B. 132 ..
I Hi*
The World’s Gayest Book.
THE FRENCH PICTORIAL NUMBER.
“THE MUSTARD POT”
Twice the size of “The Mustard Pot Annual” and a
hundred times better. Eighty pages of Pictures with
a I uneh, .Jolly Jokes. Jovial Jests, Verse and Short
Snappy Stones. This issue will make even a glass eye
S . P * r ™ e ' Punch - aml Pictures and lots and lots of
Art Photos of Lovely Girls.
Only 1/- at all Bookstalls; or send 1/2 in stamps and
a copy will be sent by return mail in plain cover and
securely wrapped. Don’t delay, send to-day.
“SINS OF SOCIETY”
It Is a powerful plea for tearing away the veil of mystery
that has so universally shrouded this subject of the penalty
of sexual immorality. It is a plea for light on this hidden
danger, that fathers and mothers, young men and voting
women may know the terrible priee that must be paid not
only by the generation that violates the law, but by’ the
generations to come. Price 2/6. We pay postage
Alt Orders Posted by Return Mail.
LONDON BOOK CO., LTD.,
Permanent Postal Address:
Box 38, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Qcr
( cfc
m
Shampoo Yourself
witli
Cuticiira Soap
Anoint the scalp with fbutieura
Ointment. Then shampoo
with a suds of Cuticnra Soap
and quite warm water. Rinse
thoroughly.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum
Is. 3d. Sample each free. Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
"THE AGE”
Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE, - ’
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 117,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
Clk new Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and “up-to-the-minute”
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the “N.Z. Referee”
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH"
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
Special Announcement
to National Advertisers
Clk mercury
Tasmania’s National Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
1 9 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: "Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney ; -or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Mixed Bag
Primage and sales' tax notwith-
standing, books continue to arrive by the
dozen from England and the U.S.A.—not
only fiction, which Australians have always
read voraciously, but technical and scientific
works, memoirs, nature books, and studies
made at first hand of the troubled regions
of Europe. In one sense taxation seems to
be beneficial; it is keeping out rubbish. If
Australia is missing a little that it should
be reading it is also missing an enormous
amount of trash which used to be dumped
here because it was unsaleable overseas.
The books reviewed below represent an
average consignment, exclusive of fiction.
They may not be works of genius, but
they are all educative, in one way or
another, and they are just the kind that
are displayed prominently in London and
New York. They help to explain why, in
spite of restrictive legislation, a general-
literature counter at Dymoek’s or Robertson
and Mullens’s looks remarkably like one
at Hatchard’s in Piccadilly.
A Russian Sportsman
Pavel Nazaroff, author of Hunted Through
Central Asia (Blackwood; 8s. 6d.), joined
in the anti-Bolshevik rising in Russian
Turkestan at the end of the World War,
and was proscribed, He was what the Irish
call a squireen; the owner of a small pro-
perty, friendly with his neighbors of all
classes, a good shot and horseman, and a
nature student. The Comrades took a
frightful revenge on his town:—
Before my eyes I saw the head of the Swedish
Red Cross killed and a Sister of Mercy. More than
5000 educated people were arrested. They were
ordered to dig a common grave, stripped naked and
all shot. A little earth was: hurriedly scattered
over them. Many were buried still breathing.
He fled, in disguise, crossed the Tien Shan
Mountains, and reached Kashgar, where he
lived for four years. Much of his book
consists of observations about birds and
animals, which he obviously loves. But
his most interesting disclosures concern
social customs. Free love, companionate
marriage, and all the rest of the post-war
improvements on Victorianism have pre-
vailed among the Sarts and Kirghiz for
centuries.
In the language of the Uzbeg Turki, in the
Kirghiz, Kashgar and Tartar dialects and the allied
idioms, there is no word conveying our idea of “to
marry.” They can only say “to take a woman.”
“Men take women and get rid of them as
lightly as we dismiss a servant.” And if
the woman is dissatisfied “she simpty goes
to the hazi, asks for a divorce, and gets it.”
Women “move from husband to husband
as long as there is a demand for them.”
He -attributes to this materialistic custom
the fact that the races of Central Asia
have no poetry and few songs. The trans-
lator is Malcolm Burr, who wrote “In Bol-
shevik Siberia.”
Free Love
Meyrick Booth is well known for his
translations of the works of leading Ger-
man psychologists, and for his book about
Rudolph Eucken. Youth and Sex (Allen
and Unwin; 55.) is a summary of conclusions
he has arrived at after working under
Eucken, Liebmann and Foerster at Jena
and Zurich, and devoting four years to
the study of social conditions in Germany,
Austria, Italy and Switzerland. He has
much to say about the “new Russian ethic”
which is conquering the mind of modern
youth. He denies that the revolt against
monogamy, and the Christian sex ethic
generally, is confined to a few “advanced”
cliques:—
The sentiments of “the new morality” are heard
just as frequently from the lips of factory girls,
young engineers or shop assistants in Lancashire
and Yorkshire, or the Midlands, as they are in
London.
Propagandists like Dr. Watson, the Ameri-
can psychologist (who argues that young
men should find “by trial and error” which
girl suits them best), and Lord (Bertrand)
Russell (who clhims that “no marriage
ceremony should be valid unless accom-
panied by a itiarital certificate of the
woman’s pregnancy”), are said to be largely
responsible for the Nordic vision of a
sexual New Jerusalem—a pleasurable era
in which, with all inhibitions got rid of,
couples shall be as free as air to unite and
separate. But this particular scientist won’t
have it that the sex problem is so easily
disposed of among civilised people. The
psyche of an educated European is too
complicated to be
satisfied by laws
which work well
enough on a stud
farm. His main
objection to the
new credo is that
it is impracticable:—
tV hat %ve here encounter is not in any sense
“wicked” or “daring.” It is best described by the term
“childish.” A person must be ■very innocent indeed,
and very inexperienced in realities, to be capable of
assuring that the mere liberation of the sex impulse
will make us all happy.
He draws a conclusion similar to that of
Mr. Nazaroff that promiscuous races are
never creative. “It was Dante who wrpte
immortal poetry and not Casanova.”
Australian Birds
We get away from controversy in Alec
H. Chisholm’s delightful Nature Fantasy
in Australia (Dent; 12s. 6d.). Sydneyites
will learn a number of interesting things
about their city, and the country round it,
from this book. The County of Cumber-
land is largely a reclaimed Triassic waste.
Vast tracts in the neighborhood of Kuring-gai
Chase and National Park are chiefly sand-
stone, which accounts for the gnarled trees
and stunted shrubs that are common near
the coast. The fertile plains between
Hawkesbury and Parramatta and the
Nepean were once an immense lagoon, and
oases of shale amongst the surrounding
sandstone explain the patches of lush sub-
tropical growth which are found along the
coast from Broken Bay to the Illawarra
Range. It is to these conditions that Syd-
ney owes its wealth and variety of wild
flowers and bird life. Mr. Chisholm is a
prose poet as well as a naturalist. The
whole book is informed with a lyric wor-
ship of birds and their beauties. Some
of his deductions are fascinating. Many
before him have remarked on the pre-
dominance ol black-and-white birds in the
open spaces of Australia and on their
pugnacity. He explains that it would be
futile for, say, magpies to be furtive. So
black-and-white birds come boldly out into
the open,, and rely on attack as their
defence. This fine book, in addition to a
colored frontispiece by Cayley, has a
regional map and 80 photographs.
A Man Who Has, Met Everybody
Before I Forget, by David Williamson
(Sampson Low: Robertson and Mullens;
17s. 6d.), contains gossip about all sorts and
conditions of celebrities and near-celebri-
ties whom the author came across during
his long career as a" journalist. The index
has over 700 names the owners of which
range from emperors, statesmen and pre-
lates to cinema stars and music-hall artists.
One chapter begins: “It has been my great
privilege to meet and converse with seven
Prime Ministers of Great Britain.” There
you have the man’s style and character.
He is a born hero-worshipper and collector.
A kinder commentator never put pen to
paper; he lias something amiable to say
about practically everybody; yet it is not
hard to discern his preferences. The men
he admires and loves belong to his own
profession, as a rule. For example, Hutton,
the famous editor of “The Spectator,” part
of whose noble article on the death of
Cardinal Newman is quoted. He tells a
number of anecdotes, some old—such as
the one about the Judge who asked a wit-
ness who boasted that he was wedded to the
truth how long he had been a widower—
while others are new, or anyhow less
familiar. One made by a Scottish big-wig
at the expense of Alfred Austin hasn’t
figured in previous reminiscences of the
Victorian era. It is almost impossible, by
the way, to imagine a compilation of the
sort without at least one joke at the ex-
pense of the self-satisfied little man whom
Lord Salisbury made Poet Laureate because
he was a good leader-writer.
RED PAGE
Nothing New Under the Sun
Russia has had a Five-year Plan before.
You can read about it in Imperial
Majesty (Elkin Mathews;,Bs. 6d. net), by
Alexei Tolstoy, who fled Russia during’ the
Revolution, but returned and made himself
sufficiently acceptable to the Soviet authori-
ties for them to publish a uniform edition
of 20 of his works. The novel has been
immensely popular in Russia and it is easy
to see why. It purports to depict Peter the
Great’s gigantic seventeenth-century attempt
to turn Muscovy into a civilised European
State. The picture is one of hopeless misery
and oppression, incredible barbarity, a truly
Asiatic-crm-Byzantine disregard for the free-
dom of the individual. No doubt the modern
subjects of the Soviet make flattering com-
parisons between their conditions and those
of the Russians under Peter. But the de-
tached reader is constantly smitten with the
impression that time scarcely exists for
Muscovy. Peter is no more autocratic, no
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


m
SB
m
I
mm
ill
H
H
- ✓
I
8
M
Y.JI
<4rV
11
I
ir>fc
k
BSk3h£ El
J*
as:
m
•ir*
m
STYLE 2
STYLE 4
m
m
iM
■
STYLE 5
✓ •
»* #
♦-*- w '
Jifcpi
: vs:
Hfl'
iO
71
/„ 1 i
-i \ Mmm
7
s
■iV
»
v 'MJa«
;
H
/It JCf
nt
L / 1
m- v. s*
IS
lii
B
m
IR
sr
1/ '4';^^
I
* >*
J
liMPllll
■
M
, *
ifcf
1.1
mm
STYLE 5
W ( ~
STYLE 5
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—The Highest Ideal.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
e
■;
I
r>tZ
i
L
Style 1: With Cambric Covering, 21/-
Pretty Down Quilt, with floral cambric cover and one plain
panel. In Rose and Blue. Size, 6ft. x sft. Price .... 21/-
Size, 6ft. x 4ft. Price 19fll
Style 2: Satin, with Cambric Back, 79/
Down Quilt, with floral satin centre, three plain satin panels,
one of which is goffered. Back is of floral cambric. In Rose
and Blue. Double-bed size only. Price 79/6
Style 3: In Satin and Cambric, at 29/6
Quality Down, covered in pretty floral cambric, with sateen
panel and border to tone. Rose and Blue shades.
Double-bed size. Price 29/6
Single bed. Price 25/-
Style 4: Rose, Blue and Black, 92/6
Covered in satin, with floral centre and two plain panels, one
of which is goffered. Colors are Rose, Blue or Black.
double beds only. Price 9Z /
Style 5: High-grade Satin, at £J
Features floral diamond centre and plain panel with goffered
strapping. In high-grade satin. Rose, Blue, Gold, Green or
Black. For double beds. Price
Style 61 Covered Floral Sateen, 70/ 1-
Smart floral sateen covering, with plain goffered panel an i
border in satin. Smartest colorings.
Double-bed size. Price /'a
Single bed. Price ;•’ • " /
(Manchester—First Floor. Carmine paid within the State.)
è
é
ê
Anthony
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNE Y.
Postal Address:
Box 27 12C, G.P.O.


EVERYDAY PROMISES WILLARD HELPS YOU KEEP:
m
n
4*
u
fo-e)ije. to £?cu\ aJ
/
99
Another promise among the many that crowd
your daily life...made confidently—kept faith-
fully! A dozen times a day you are able to
keep such promises because the car you drive
will start quickly, unfailingly... because the
battery in your car is so consistently dependable
that you’ve come to take certain starting for
granted. Car owners prefer the battery that
gives them carefree performance. The fact that,
year after year, they buy more Willards than
any other make is ample proof that Willards
do just that. Willard Batteries are as depend-
able as batteries can be made.
WILLARD BATTERIES
DELIVER MAXIMUM
SPEEDOMETER MILES
FOR THE MONEY.
Whether you drive five,
ten or twenty thousand
miles a year, be sure that
the next battery you buy
will deliver dependable
mileage. The safest way
is to buy a Willard.
Service records have
proved their reliability
and long life.
m
m
Willard
STORAGE
BATTERIES
Motor Supplies, Limited,
Brisbane.
Westcott Hazell & Co., Limited,
Sydney.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Brooklands Accessories Pty., Limited,
Melbourne.
Automobile Electric Service, Limited,
Adelaide,
Atkins (W.A.), Limited,
Perth.


BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
PRACTICAL BIRTH CONTROL, by Hornibrook, 5/-
Passion by Marie Stopes, 7/10: Contraception—Birth Control, Its Theory, History and Practice,
by Marie Carmichael Stopes, 22/4; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the
Young, by Marie Stopes, 4/10 ; The New Toxology—The Science of Sex and Lite, 8/- , sex
Knowledge, by N. March, 1/8; Love and Marriage, by Scott Hall, 13/a; Secrets of Successful
Marriage by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4; Realities of Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale,
10/4- Youth and Maidenhood, by \V. M. Gallichan, 4/6; The Perfect AVife, by Br.G- Courtenay
Beale 1/11; The Happy Lover, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11 ; Eugenics and Birth Control,
by J. Rutgers, M.D., 15/6; Pitfalls of Marriage, by W. M. Gallichan, 6/3 ; Wise Wedlock, by
Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/3 ; Medical Views on Birth Control, 6/4;_ Canary Breeding for
Beginners, 2/9; Physical Culture Simplified—-A Complete Course of Physical Culture, 6/3 Sex
Problems and Their Solution, by Haydn Brown, 5/5; Knowledge a Young Wife Should Have, by
Phillip, 4/6; The Book of Nature, 3/9; Contract Bridge, by Ely Cuthbertson, 8/6, Contract
Bridge in Twenty Minutes, 1/11; Mayes’ Australian Builders’ Price Book, 15/6; Menus Made
Easy, by Nancy Lake, 5/4; Aust. Nuts and Nut Growing in Aust., by Rumsey, 2/4; Foulsham s
Letter Writer, 3/4; Chambers’s Twentieth-Century Dictionary, 13/4; Cards for Three, by Basl
Dalton, M.A., 3/1; Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date ), 2/8; Popular Card
Games and How to Play and Win, by F. Ings, 1/5; The Book of Luck, by H. G. Souter, 1/5,
NEW TECHNICAL HANDBOOKS, 1932, FOR
MECHANICS.
Fowler’s Electrical Engineer’s Pocket Book, 1932.
Price, 5/6 Posted.
Fowler’s Mechanic’s and Machinist’s Pocket Book, 1932.
Price, 3/9 Posted.
Mechanical World Year Book, 1932. Price, 3/- Posted.
Calvert’s Mechanic’s Almanack, 1932. Price, 1/- Posted.
_, , . o hnrt p rosP Recitations, 3/4; House’s Canary Manual, 2/9; Table Rapping, 2/6;
Foulsham s Best Belasco 1/6; Ward Lock’s Letter Writer for Ladies and
> 2 ® l eSt l nd 2??. G The Bulletil feedteV; 2/2 ; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/11 ; Furniture
Gentlemen ,4/1 .The "uuetin necrct , / , Amateur 1/n . what to Do at Weddings, 1/6;
Repairing for Amateu , / , P t B k f R eadv -i]iade Speeches and Toasts, 3/-;
Boot and Shoe P I > , Book of Fate 3/4; Cheiro Guide to the Hand, 4/1; The
Century Recipes, 26/-, hapoleons kook 01 •*"«» j d R ecko ner, 4/3; Bulletin Book of
Angora Rabbit Book for Austral , 2/3, L p tin for Gold (Australian), by lon Idriess,
S°Celly2/9 ; A to Z of Australian Fruitgrow Rumsey
o'/o’ Sm. Tellina- bv Tea-leaves, 2/-; Diesel Engine, by Jones—Special Price—ls/-, 1001
2/2 , Fortune Tell ng y Guid e to the Game of Draughts, 4/6; Chess and Draughts, by
Riddles, NewandOld, 2 R /2i, Lee« d G "“?ri° Tennis Racquets, 3/-; Motor Repair Manual, 4/7 ;
Belasco, / , Manual 417. Guide for the Chairman and Secretary, 3/2; The Modem Letter
Writer 2/9 Hypnotism’Simplified, by Martin, 1/11; Hand-reading Made Easy, by Noel Jaquin
J/6* Parenthood—a Manual of Birth Control, by Fielding, 4/-; Love and Whiand
Scott Hall 13/-; Sex Knowledge—with special chapter on birth conti 01, 1/8 . The Why a d
bcott "an, 1 , Dr Adamson 4/7- How to Mesmerise, by Janet Coates, 3/3, The
Farrow 6/4; The Horse—Method of Handling and Educating, Telling and lreating
Diseases, Illustrated, 2/7, post free; Model Yachts, Sailing-boats and Submaunes, 2/9, Canoes,
Dinghies and Sailing-punts, 2/9.
WRITE FOR LISTS
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Booksellers, Librarians, Tobacconists, Stationers, Newsagents, Kodak Suppliers,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
more ruthless, than the present Communist
oligarch)". If he wants anything done he
gets it "done, with a sublime disregard for
humanitarian considerations. The boyards
and nobles of the time are told that they
must establish industries, make roads and
otherwise modernise the country, and' if
they don’t they are buried up to the neck
or hanged or otherwise brought to face
reality, just as the managers and engineers
of collective enterprises to-day are shot or
gaoled if they fail to satisfy the Commis-
sars. The serfs are shifted about from
one part of the Empire to another for the
purposes of the new economic policy of
Peter, just as the proletarian is used as a
pawn in the N.E.P. of to-day, and in the
statecraft of Peter there is the same mix-
ture of militarism and pacifism as is obser-
vable in present-day Soviet policy. The
moujik of to-day is prevented from brood-
ing on the exceeding emptiness of his
stomach by being told that he is the leader
in a mighty international revolution, which
will give Russia the spiritual hegemony of
the universe. Peter’s serfs were buoyed up
in their troubled sojourn between the
cradle and the grave by the thought that
Russia, the inheritor of Byzantium, was
going to revive the Holy Roman Empire.
The story of Peter’s Five-year Plan stops
before results are achieved. The book is
long, diffuse and badly organised, but paints
a vivid picture of the seventeenth-century
bai’barism which is so very like twentieth-
century barbarism. Also, it is without the
sentimentality that distinguishes most of
the - historical novels of other lands.
M.G.S.
Art and Morals
Of the five Australian plays which reached
the final of the competition recently con-
ducted by Miss Carrie Tennant, two pro-
vided a lesson for writers and would-be
writers—whether of plays or stories. It
deserves a paragraph to itself.
Artists cannot successfully ignore morality.
The author may handle an immoral sub-
ject; his characters may flout the moral
code; but the author, either through one
of the characters or by means,of the story
itself, must pass judgment on them. The
apparently guilty must be proved innocent,
or, if guilty, marked with the stigma of their
offence. That is not a wowser preach-
ment but a note on mass psychology. The
world a.nd his wife (and his son and
daughter) still pay respect to moral issues.
The obvious retort that the author is con-
cerned with art and not with ethics won’t
hold water. Unless the author wishes to
provide entertainment only for a small and
select audience of moral imbeciles he is
expected to exhibit the same sense of moral
values that he would in the ordinary affairs
of life. A classic example is afforded by
Shakspeare. His plays contain much lewd-
ness; but in no place does the student
receive the impression that the author has
lost his own moral sense. The two plays
objected to by Lady Game did. “The
Hypocrites” concerns itself with three
adulterers: a loose-living man. his wife and
the wife’s lover. The chauffeur has em-
bezzled £5O from the husband, and the wife,
because he knows about her affair, gets him
out of his difficulty. He, in return, tacitly
agrees to keep his knowledge to himself.
The curtain falls with the parties at liberty
to continue as before. That sort of dra-
matic dish is not acceptable to the public,
That such things might, or do, happen is
no answer. The author raised a moral issue
and then omitted to deal with it.
In “No Robbery” two young couples
agree to swap over. Some months later,
in a moment of sentimentality, they swap
back again. The fault of the theme is not
that the characters did these things; but
that the author shows no awareness that
anything was wrong. It resembles a
piece of deliberate misbehavior of the
kind indulged in by small boys who chalk
dirty words on footpaths.
One wonders how many manuscripts are
rejected by editors because the authors, in
a frantic endeavor to concoct a theme of
interest, decide to abandon ethics and pro-
duce something indecent in the guise of
modernism. It is worth noting, in this
connection, that the first and second places
in the competition were awarded to whole-
some plays, by Dora Wilcox and Ruth Bed-
ford respectively.
F. D. DAVISON.
Book Publishing in Australia
“Gad”:—
Once upon a time I was a journalist, mostly a
freelance, and my name used to appear in print so
widely and so often that people (complete strangers)
used to write and ask how it was done. Further,
they used to bombard me with MSS. asking would I
read, and advise, and be generally helpful. All, of
course, for nothing.
I had never managed to accumulate much of what
the economists call “the medium of exchange,” so
I decided to answer all these folk collectively, by
means of a book. I wrote half of that book myself;
the other half was contributed by various well-
known poets, authors, journalists, and one or two
editors. It was not, of course, an attempt to win
the Nobel prize, nor yet to produce a best-seller.
It was simply intended to be a helpful practical
manual for all such as were bursting to market their
writings and didn’t know how to proceed about it.
I decided to produce the book myself. This I
did, at a cost of some £l2O. So far as the book
went, I felt I had got full value for my £l2O.
As a book it was beautiful. It was flatteringly
reviewed —in fact, one Sydney paper said it was
“not only an outstanding contribution to the journal-
istic art, but a unique and original book”—and I
began to think my fortune was made. Then I got
in touch with the distributors.
The local retailers offered (in a very half-hearted
way) to take “a few copies” (on sale or return).
The price of the book was 2s. 6d. and their fee for
vending it was to be lOd. per copy. I suggested
to one of the largest local retailers that they might
display a copy in their window. The reply was
that they might do so, but of course their com-
mission on sales (lOd. per copy) was so small that
it would hardly be worth their while. “You see,”
said this great man grandiloquently, “that window
costs us about £7O per week in rent. We get as
much as 3s. commission per copy on the sale of
overseas books. On yours, only lOd. So there you
are.” I saw. He might have added, though he
didn’t, that the authors of overseas books get only
3d. a copy in Australia.
However, this treatment was generous compared
with that which I received at the hands of the whole-
salers. They agreed to take “a certain number”
(on sale or return, of course) for distribution to
their branches. But in this transaction I was to
lose a whole Is. 3d. on each copy if a sale were
effected. It was understood they were to send free
copies for press reviews and I was to get cuttings.
Well, the retailers sold a few. The wholesalers
sold a few (but I saw no press cuttings) ; and I
sold a few—on the review notices locally.
The rest are in cold storage.
And that’s why I’m on the track.
And “F.S.” adds a note on Book Pub-
lishing in England:—
I have just received an intimation from my London
agent that my publishers have disposed of 5000
copies of two books of mine which are to be issued
together in one volume. As they have the blocks
and type ready and the books are sufficiently well
known not to require advertising or copies to
reviewers, it seems to be a proposition without much
uncertainty about it. Moreover, the entire edition
has been purchased by a firm running a chain of
stores. At half-a-crown the 5000 represent £625
in sales if they are all disposed of. My proportion
is £3O, less agent’s commission and British income-
tax, which, when last heard of, was five shillings
in the pound.
A Satchel of Books
H. de Vere Stacpoole covers a lot of
ground in The Lost Caravan (Collins;
7s. 6d.). The yarn begins in Sarajevo,
where Jean Matisse, the handsome young
Anglo-French hero, is discovered at the Hotel
de l’Europe, and passes on to North Africa
where —yes, reader, you have guessed it —he
enlists in the Foreign Legion. Sidi, the
Muezzin calling, corv6e, the tyrannical
n.e.0., the legionnaires’ soupe —we get them
all. Also a pleasing love-story in which Karan,
a gypsy girl, shares the honors with Jean. If
you aren’t absolutely fed up with novels
about the Legion you should like this one.
The Sunnybrook Press has turned out an-
other beautiful book in The Earth Lover
and Other Verses, by Katharine Prichard.
The decorations are by Eileen McGrath.
This book, like “Trio,” has been printed
by hand, signed by the printer and con-
tributors, and is limited to 75 copies. One
example of Katharine Prichard’s command
of atmosphere and the right word: —
DURING THE WAR.
In back yards, gardens, and old hedges, pittosporum
blooms beneath the blue night sky;
Its crowded flowers are milky ways of fragrance in
the dark.
So exquisite their breathing, and the light of the
dim stars,
The soul knows Nirvana on a draught.
Immortal loveliness,
And that immeasurable horror!
Desert Ranch, by Charles Westey Sanders
(Collins; 7s. 6d.). Billy Salladay married
a dance-girl and liis twin, Bob, lit out after
them. A.D.C.’d by Mournful Martin. That
was how Bob came to meet and wed Lola
and turn over the scoundrelly Block to the
sheriff. This critic has only seen sheriffs
at the talkies, but he is disposed, on that
evidence, to endorse one of Mourniul’s dicta:
“Sheriffs is a noosance. They don’t earn their
wages. All they ever do is to shine their stars, dean
guns they never use an’ sit with their feet on their
desks.”
And a Little Verse
THE IMMORTALS.
“We are for ever young!” aloud we cry.
Time, with his grasping hands, cannot
destroy
The bright beliefs that we have throned so
high,
Nor shatter all our palaces of joy.
Death has come close, and peered desirously
At lithe young limbs, godlike, sword-
straight and clean—
He cannot crush our glad vitality,
He cannot hurl us from the heights
serene!
We shall live on when weaker things are
dust,
God’s great creations, and man’s frail
mould.
Youth is a song, and Life a golden trust;
We cannot die, our hearts cannot grow
old!
Star-crowned like kings we go, supreme of
will,
We are unconquered—we are victors still!
N.S.W.
S. A. R.
ROCKS ON THE SHORE.
Two lions couchant by the water’s edge,
Looking beyond tlie sea’s infinity,
Fearsome, not savage; satisfied and free,
And proud as if with guardian privilege
They watch the changes tirelessly
Across the all-changing sea.
A strong man kneeling at a woman’s feet,
A woman bending in still tenderness;
Wistful, I know the hidden eyes must bless,
And wonder if mere pardon be so sweet
In giving, or if love’s caress
Must follow love’s distress.
A mute Madonna, smileless, pondering
The many-visaged crowd that clamors by
With the same glance that watched a sea-
bird die,
Or looked on one that went with broken
wing;
She hears the laughter and the lie .
And every seagull’s cry.
Down by the sea the scarred rocks watch
and wait.
The winds have broken them to many forms,
A thousand stories in each semblance hid,
A thousand varied tales of love and hate,
A thousand fancies nurtured ’mid
The bearing of the storms.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.W.L.: “Birthdays” marred by a few
clumsy lines. “Jaearanda” gets close. Take care
impressionism doesn’t dip into incoherence....
C.E.H.; Trite E.V.B: Too tinkling Alfred
R.: “Memory” struck no spark and your lion
rants too much....S.A.R.: Pretty warblings on
threadbare themes.... Charles C.: That’s right; it
was the woman.... Ken D.: There is promise in
“Hands”; the other is negligible... .M.M.C.: Keep
going; but aim at simplicity... .J.R.K.: Not yet,
though we still have great expectations Tom H.:
Deft rhyming; but not poetry.... John H.: A long
way to Tipperary... .K.E.C.: Not suitable for us;
but the definitely religious papers ought to wel-
come it... .C.J.A.S.: Too vague; give us definite
proposals... .Ex-Landowner: That may explain how
they got there, but it doesn’t show a way out.
....J.G.R-: Flimsy as the subject... .The Pros-
pector : It isn’t only undue length that kills it;
it’s as stodgy as a half-baked damper... .Twilight:
Some craftsmanship in “The Line.” But it echoes
Kipling far too closely... .Aldmor: “Sonnet to a
Sausage” regretfully rejected... .H.W.D.: Ending
rather too obvious... .O.B.: We might have credited
you with some ear for verse if you hadn’t tried to
rhyme “doormat” with “store-cat”... .V.G.W.: “The
Blind Bushman” suffers from assonance as well as
astigmatism. The other yam is an oft-told one. .. .
M.W.W.: Too bald a tale... .0.K.: Lacks polish.
....W.J.A.: Nonsense... .S.H.C.: It’s an old trick.
....8.8.A.: All been better said before C.K.W.:
Parable merely made us thirsty... .J.S.M.: Only a
par. in it....J.C.: Began promisingly but trailed
0ff.... J.E.S.: Germ of a story in it, but treatment
fails... .R. 8.; One more cowyard romance blighted in
basket... .1.W.: Too small a peg on which to hang
a tale. ... J.R.: Too rambling... .R.J.W.: Crude.. ..
H.F.: Not for us C.R.M.C.: Try it on a woman’s
paper E.K.P.: Isn’t convincing... .S.H.: No
eobstufl, please... .L.E.W.: Try to present your
material readably... .A.D.: Breaks no new ground.
Alex. L.: But tell us how you’re going to get
this land 8.8. A.: She might love you for your
heart, never for your art....C.8.: The bloom is
off the clover... .A.J.A.: There’s a good directness
about them. Keep going... .N.A.H.: Work poor
and meaning obscure... .0.T.: Received three poems,
with this introduction:—
This is my first attempt at verse;
I don’t mind saying I’ve seen worse;
And if they don’t your sweet thoughts match,
Send them back with a quick dispatch.
After consideration: —
To these imperious words we say
There is a rule you should obey:
Since rejects will not homeward tramp,
To pay their fare enclose a stamp!
S.M.: Limpy verse G.L.: There was some
human interest in the first two verses; after that it
settled down... .N.M.T.: Original, doubtless. Also
punk... .C.J.W.: Ship becalmed... .C.C.: Something
in the refrain, but not enough to carry the ballade.
A.R.J.: An inartistic ending... .E.F.: “Luck”
had none J.R.M.: Plot is on the lean side....
M.A.H.: Found them twaddlesome H.M.G.:
Amateurish.. .J.8.W.: You say nothing that matters
and say it poorly... .D.E.W.: None of the charac-
ters is vital enough... .M.T.: Reads unreal....
W.S.: Incident not sufficiently important to string
out to story length W.H.: Have read many
better “other-pebbles-on-the-beach” stories D.D.:
Style not good enough to carry the yarn....
J.W.H.P.; All we can say is that the young man
had a dud lawyer A.C.G.: Too brief an odyssey.
... .E.P.M. • Ending was never in doubt... .W.C.C.:
Lacks reality... .F. 0.5.: Finished in the ruck....
J.F.L. : No plot L.8.H.: Rambles too much
H.C.G.: Let us have something Australian F.C.:
Bodywork weak, but nicely varnished... .E.K.P.:
Well told, but bottle turning up at precise spot is
too far-fetched... .R.A.8.: Would prefer the material
used in fiction form... .H.J.N.: N0....8.5.: Learn
not to repeat a word or phrase to tiresomeness. Can’t
tell your capabilities from one example... .Rizzio:
Do autumn leaves really fall on aerodromes ?....
A.C.: Obvious that you are “young and have much
time to improve.” Study the standard poets and
burn nine-tenths of what you write for the next two
years.... V.J.: “Have you heard the ocean’s chatter?”
No, but we hear the presses clatter, and they’re not
printing your screed... .8.5.: Your storm clouds
shan’t lower here... .H.8.F.: Articles, 3d. a line;
stories (minimum), 375, 6d. a col W.W.G.:
Convict transport story tedious repetition... .M. 8.:
Blow the futile efforts of a novice to milk a stubborn
cow! That theme has been done to death... .A.S.:
A loser... .E.K.: Suicide ending spoilt it....H.H.:
Sisters talk like a pair of Dorothy Dixes... '.T.F.:
Cut down by half and strengthen the finish.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.D.; Not even mediocre.... A.M.P.: Still search-
ing for point in jest J.R.: The week’s weakest.
... .W.C.S.: That rent collector has been calling
on us for 40 years... .M.S.L.: Yes, you do need
tuition R.A.C.: Angular art and threadbare
humor... .W.T.: Have cremated hundreds of draw-
ings of gents, standing in their bath-tubs while the
National Anthem was played... .D.J.: You’re so
thrifty with the ink that the drawing is almost
invisible... .D.W.K.; Get more life into them
W.P.: To quote the lady in the picture, “We’ll not
buy your inadequate goods”... .A.R.: Some promise.
H.T.: Needs a lot of polishing up. .. .F.E.C.:
Not suitable for reproduction... .L.0.M.: For a start,
use proper ink and pens... .R.E.: Might do as
fairy-book illustrations... .S.W.: All smudges and
straggling lines H.A.P.: Don’t fancy the giant
astride a toy bike T.A.C.: Many a strange thing
comes out of the sea, but never a fish like that
N.N.: The ladies are top-heavy 8.W.: “A Shot in
the Dark” missed D.P.R.: Interesting as students’
work... .N.J.: Fifth-rate fashion-plates D.R.G.:
Read the same joke in a ten-year-old paper in
dentist’s waiting-room C.L.8.: Overburdened with
decorations P.V.: Awful M.S.: Your inability
to draw any line longer than one-sixteenth of an
inch is a disadvantage G.lf.: Months too late;
keep it till the next war... .A.S.C.: No children’s
pages here... .W.R.: Brushwork too heavy....
M.J.S.F.: More bad patches than promising ones.


9
EM
■
V
WmlM
w.
\&s&*
m&Mm
mmm.
■H■
/M
I //
i
1
/y
*!■
Hi
WW/mt,
w$imwmmi09*i JS' 1 -. • t (IS
•/••. ! .«
■M
Jv, „ .
« - pw<
■HEH
.VV-,:
:
T - ' * J
-V - •* i
■
■
.\r
nH
t%Y/
*Mw M
»
■
vl
■ n.r
s
IMiHHnHfliii
WKmsKMSmKtttm
iggpiMli
''■ .■'::■■ r-:/.
■ **mszv ■ ./*
■ . -\\ s , ••>
:■; ' {j < ' . . ■ ■ V
‘
* '
;•§ ■ ..
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
YoV. 53.—No. 2728.
May 25, 1932.
UP TO THEM.
MOUNTED-CONSTABLE GAME: “I’ve put him out, but remember it’s your job to keep him out.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: lVf-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, l-'i Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 3G Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
S months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
C months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Ss.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua. Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea, Route”: Id. for Ooz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id, for l/oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
WHO OWNS MOST CAPITAL?
When the Communists took charge of
northern Italy after the war the workmen
at a factory outside Milan dismissed the
heads, who were also the owners of the
show, and proceeded to carry on themselves.
A council of workmen was formed, and
the usual programme of the “new industrial
revolution” introduced. Within three
months the business was in disorder; tools
and plant were in disrepair, much work-
ing-time was lost, and costs bounded ahead.
In five months orders ceased to come in; in
six months so many of the employees were
out of work and saw so little chance of
getting back that they sent out an SOS
to the old heads to return and take charge.
It called for nearly two years’ strenuous
effort to repair the damage that had been
done in little more than six months. Yet
the men who took charge of those works
were tremendously in earnest. They wanted
to make a success of the business, and they
tried their hardest to do it. All that was
the matter was they didn’t know how.
Forty-odd years ago the Labor party
was bom in Australia, and from that time
onward many people have assumed that
whatever the leaders for the time being
of this party may propose must be right
for the workers. There is no “must” about
it. The leaders for the time being may be
the best-intentioned people in the world,
but if they don’t know how they may make
just as much a mess of the workers’ cause
as those men did at the Italian factory—
or as the average editor or Chief Justice
would of a stop-watch that he undertook to
repair. Mr. Lang and his. colleagues may
have been honest and earnest and ener-
getic; the sincere desire of their lives may
have been to do good to the workers. But
that would not necessarily benefit the
workers at all. Nor will any amount of
confidence in themselves do it. The cap-
tain who piles his ship on a reef thinks
he knows the course; the doctor who pre-
scribes a treatment which hastens death
believes he knows the proper thing to do.
No amount of shouting that Lang is right
will make him right; only by their fruits
shall ye know them.
But, while there are many who will
agree that the leaders of the Labor party
may be wrong, and may, therefore, lead
the workers into trouble instead of away
from it, others will say in their despair that
if this is so then the workers can have no
hope at all. Now, that is not only one of
the silliest, it is also one of the wickedest
things that modern men and women are
asked to believe. For it means that nobody
else is concerned about the welfare of the
workers of the community except a small
section which carries a certain brand; and
that is a cruel lie. Nine-tenths of those
who constitute the parties outside Labor
are workers. To ask the Labor man and
woman to believe that nobody is really
interested in the workers’ welfare except the
Labor party is, therefore, stupid; and be-
cause it is this creed which makes honest
and sincere Labor people hate other parties,
it is wicked as well as stupid.
In some countries it would be easier
to separate the workers and the capitalists
than it is in Australia. Here, to a very
great extent, the workers are the capitalists.
The other day Mr. Lang proposed to col-
lect a tax of 10 p.c. from mortgagees. At
once we had word-pictures drawn for us of
fat, paunchy money-lenders living on their
interest and growing richer and harder and
greedier. It may be that was the sort of
man Mr. Lang thought he was getting at. But
very soon other pictures were presented.
The chairman of the A.M.P. wrote saying
that his society had £20,000,000 out on mort-
gage, every penny of it the savings of
policy-holders. At the end of 1929 the total
Australian assets of this and other life-
insurance offices were £134,598,978, belong-
ing to no less than 2,549,796 policies: that
is to say, the average policy was represented
by no more than £53 ‘of assets. The
£20,000,000 of money lent on mortgage
by the A.M.P. Society, which Mr. Lang
proposed to tax, was really owned by the
holders of over 760,000 policies. Similar
astonishing results emerge from Australian
banking figures. At the end of 1930, when
the population reached 6,476,000, there were
no less than 5,105,000 of Savings Bank
accounts, and the total sum held on deposit
was £217,610,000. That looks, and is, an
enormous sum; 'it amounts to very nearly
as much as the deposits in all the joint-
stock banks. But it is owned by so many
people that, the average deposit per account
is under £43. How widespread is the owner-
ship of Savings Bank money we had brought
home to us only a few months ago when
the N.S.W. Savings Bank suspended pay-
ment, bringing trouble and sorrow to two
out of every three homes in the State.
The tale which Labor men and women
are asked to swallow is that the world is
divided into two classes, the workers and
the capitalists; that there is a great gulf
between them which it is not possible to
bridge; that the Labor party represents
the workers and every other party repre-
sents the capitalists, whose whole purpose
is to grind down the workers. The figures
quoted show that so far as Australia especi-
ally is concerned it is not possible to divide
the people like that. The workers are the
capitalists; they own over 217 millions in
the Savings Banks and 134 millions in the
insurance offices: they own more than one-
half of the wealth of Australia; including
farms worked by their proprietors, they
own probably two-thirds of the entire
wealth of Australia.
There is no political party in Australia
whose job in life is to exploit the
workers. So far as there is a capitalist
party at all it consists of workers. It differs
from the Labor party not in having less
sympathy with the workers, but in having
more; and especially with that vast body of
workers who have put by something in
some form or other—in life insurance, in
friendly society, in savings bank, or in
home as a. provision for old age, for sick-
ness, or for their widows and orphaned
children. With these men and women
Mr. Lang and his Government have
again arid again shown no sympathy what-
ever; on the contrary, they have always
grouped them with the capitalists who are
fit subjects for exploitation. That is the
difficulty and must be the downfall of any
Australian Government which, taking its
instructions from overseas, makes a fetich
of attacking the capitalist. In Europe there
is a great capitalist class; and it may be
good politics there to attack it. But in
Australia you can only attack the capitalist
by attacking the hundreds of thousands of
thrifty workers who have contributed the
bulk of the funds of our greatest institutions
and still own them.
IF LANG SHOULD WIN!
The dismissal of Mr. Lang and his Mini-
sters and the advent of a Government which
has pledged itself to be honest were followed
at Canberra by the suspension of the Finan-
cial Agreements Enforcement Act and the
revenue-attaching proclamations issued
under it. But the suspension may be lifted
at any time by Governor-General’s pro-
clamation; and lifted it certainly will be
if the Langsters are returned and the
repudiation of just debts is resumed.
This is a possibility which will have to
be reckoned with. It is not going to be
easy to beat a party which boasted 55 of
the 90 seats in the Legislative Assembly,
and which had substantial majorities in the
nominee House for the plunder, under
legal forms, of mortgagees. This plunder-
party, in a time of vast unemployment,
is appealing to the cupidity of the have-
nots; it is also making audacious bids for
the support of the Government employees,
of whom there are about 85,000, and of
the old-age, invalid and military pensioners,
and the families receiving child-endow-
ment. and child-welfare payments, who
number at least 200,000. Nevertheless,
the plunder-party will probably be beaten,
for it has outraged feelings which are
stronger than selfishness in the average Aus-
tralian breast. But suppose it wins? And
suppose (what is extremely probable in any
event) New England and the River in a
declare against it? Rather than submit to
Sydney capital levies and Soviet control,
rather than be parties to the destruction
of the Commonwealth and of the whole
financial fabric (which in its turn might
mean an overseas boycott of Australian
goods), these dissatisfied sections will un-
questionably want to break away from
Sydney and remain in the Commonwealth
as new States, or—in the case of Riverina
and the South Coast—as parts of a loyal
State. What is to prevent their breaking
away?
_ Certainly the Commonwealth Constitu-
tion forbids the formation of a new State
or States, “by separation of territory from
a State,” without “the consent of the Par-
liament thereof.” But so does the Consti-
tution of the United States (section 124 of
our Constitution is virtually a copy of
article 4 of the American instrument of
government); yet the western counties of
Virginia separated from that rebel State
and were admitted to the Union as the
State of West, Virginia during the Civil War.
And this proceeding was held to be con-
stitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court after
the war.
At the Presidential election of 1860,
which preceded the Civil War, Virginia
rejected the disunion party, just as N. S.
Wales did last year, though not by so
vast a majority. Before Lincoln entered
upon his duties the Governor of the State
summoned a convention to consider the
situation. This body sat for months; at the
outset most of the delegates were against
secession, but when the Federal Govern-
ment, six weeks after Lincoln’s inaugura-
tion, called upon the State to supply its
quota of soldiers to suppress insurrection
in States actually in revolt, a secession
ordinance was passed for reference to the
people. Without waiting for the people’s
vote to be taken (it showed a majority
for secession, but the western counties
polled 44,000 to 4000 against it) the dis-
unionists carried Virginia over to the rebel
States. The western loyalists thereupon
summoned a convention, which pronounced
the secession ordinance null and void, organ-
ised a pro-Union Government and sent
two Senators to Washington, where they
were recognised. All this was before the
disunionists had passed from defiance of
Federal law and seizure of national property
to fighting. The actual admission of West
Virginia to the Union was delayed for a
couple of years, owing to the tedious pro-
cedure adopted. The convention adjourned
for a couple of months; then it adopted
an ordinance providing for a popular vote
on the formation of a new State; then the
vote was taken (18,489 for and 781 against);
then three months were occupied in framing
a Constitution; then it was decided to
have another vote (18,162 for the Constitu-
tion, 514 against), which was followed by a
reference to the reorganised State Legis-
lature. And when application for admis-
sion had been favorably received by Con-
gress, Lincoln caused another long delay by
demanding the insertion of an anti-slavery
provision in the Constitution. Even so the
new State became part of the Union nearly
two years before the close of the Civil War.
Given a repetition of recent events, with
disaster as the certain outcome, New Eng-
land—to take only one dissatisfied section
—would really be in a better position to
form a new State than West Virginia was
in 1861. For one thing, it could point out
that the Constitutional amendment which
the Langsters would nullify was accepted
at a referendum by a great majority of the
N. S. Wales people—the voting was 754,446
for and 415,846 against—and by the New
Englanders above all. Then it has a much
greater population than the West Virginia
of 1861-64, which mustered only 33,670
voters at its first Presidential election. Nor
would it have any Robert E. Lee to fear.
Instead of a Lee in command of 10,000
good local troops, the Red disloyalists of
Sydney would have to rely on Lang, who
has no organised force, no military experi-
ence and no stomach for a fight. Nominally
any Government would have the right,
under section 119, to apply to the Com-
monwealth for protection “against domestic
violence”; but if such protection were re-
quired it would naturally be forthcoming
for those who are loyal to the Common-
wealth, not those who are disloyal to it.
In any case the Government of a State in
rebellion against a Federal union, even if
the rebellion does not take violent forms,
has no constitutional rights.
A GOVERNOR’S JOB.
The Bulletin does not want to turn aside
an atom of the goodwill which, after being
dammed back for many months, is now
rolling in upon Governor Game, of N. S.
Wales. His Excellency’s personal qualities
have never been in question; the State has
recognised in him a kindly, amiable gentle-
man, with a sincere desire to do right and
with a fear amounting almost to terror of
doing wrong. But the fact that such a man
should have regarded it as no part of his
duty to ask J. T. Lang to produce the
people’s warrant for his acts shows how
badly the position of Governor needs re-
viewing and re-stating.
The duties and functions of a Governor,
like those of the Crown, are continually
changing. More and more the power of
government has passed into the hands of
the people; little by little the power of
the Grown and the Crown’s representatives
to govern has been whittled away until
practically there is none of it left. The
Crown has adapted itself entirely to the
new conditions, under which its principal
duty is to prevent the usurpation of the
people’s powers of self-government. That
is what almost every exercise of the royal
authority amounts to to-day. “I do not
believe,” the King or the King’s represen-
tative says in effect, “that this action is
what the people really want. I will there-
fore give them an opportunity of speaking.”
This attitude can be traced in even the
minor activities of the King and Queen.
There was a story in the papers the other
day about a very old lady who was to be
turned out of the home she had occupied
for many years in connection with some
road-widening scheme that was not veiy
urgent. The Queen intervened, not because
she had the smallest legal right to do it,
but because she saw that the public con-
science was being outraged. The expulsion
of the old lady was suspended for six
months.
It is quite true that rules cannot be laid
down to meet such cases. The royal power
in these days is very much like the con-
tingency account or inner reserve in a busi-
ness; it is a special provision to meet the
unexpected—the things for which it has not
occurred to anybody to make specific pro-
vision; things which have not happened
before and probably will never happen
again. There are, of course, certain royal
jobs to be done which can be and are
specified; the calling and proroguing of
Parliament, for example. But on investi-
gation they will be found to be all part
of the same great purpose—to ensure to the
people their self-governing rights.
The Governor—of N. S. Wales, as of
other States—is appointed by the Crown,
and receives his instructions from the
Dominions Office. But there are obvious
reasons why the Dominions Office should
be careful not to put into the hands of
the Governor, its nominee, any large power
of interference with the self-governing
rights of a Dominion or any part of it.
Generally, it lays down that there is to be
no interference whatever so long as the
peace of the Empire is not imperilled.
And even then the right of self-determina-
tion has been so extended that it is doubt-
ful whether the Empire would hold any
part of it after positive proof had been
given that the people wanted their freedom.
But the Australian people are concerned
with something more than that; we accept
a Governor not merely as the protector of
Imperial interests, but as the protector also
of our own institutions. He is something a
great deal more than an Imperial agent;
he is to do_ for the people of Australia
what the King does for the people of
Britain. Admittedly the British Govern-
ment would hesitate to specify what its
agent should do in that way; it is for us
to specify what we desire he should do.
As an old officer of the Imperial service
—he was for many years in the War Office
Sir Philip Game knows the disposition of
the Imperial authorities to allow the
Dominions to go their own way wherever
possible. They are quite right in assuming
that we should resent any attempt on the
P.art of any Governor to take from us the
right of self-government. But if we say we
want some protection against usurpation,
and that the only one who can protect us
is the man who has the power to dissolve
Parliament and order a general election,
then they can have no reasonable objection
to instruct him accordingly.
It has been said that if Sir Philip Game
had exercised hi s right and sent the Lang
Government to the country, he must have
resigned had the country then given Lana
a majority. It ought to be clearly laid
down that no such result should follow.
A Governor cannot know beyond doubt
whether his Ministers have the people be-
hind them or not; if he is not to act until
he knows beyond doubt, he never can or
will act. If he has doubts and evidence
to support those doubts, he ought to be in
exactly the same position as the president
of a convention calling for a division; and
no more odium ought to attach to him if
the answer is for the Government than
would attach to the president of any
deliberative body who required that a divi-
sion should be taken after a debate in order
to put the wishes of the body beyond
question.
The position ca.n only be clarified by
consultations between State Governments
and the British Government, and no time
should be lost in opening them. It is un-
fair to Governors that their duties should
not be clearly defined. It is quite as un-
fair to the people. Indeed, as we have
lately seen, it may imperil the very exist-
ence of the Commonwealth and drive a
wedge into the Empire itself.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
As Shakspeare Saw It.
Colonel Bruxner, Deputy-leader of the
N.S.'W. Government, is M.P. for Tenter-
field, beyond 1 amworth, and from there-
abouts he will deliver the opening address
of his campaign this week-end. Stevens, the
Premier, will speak at Croydon on Wednes-
day ; so before Colonel Bruxner gives his
first address he will have got reports of the
reception the Ministerial policy has had.
The Bulletin supplies an advance
report of the proceedings at Colonel Brux-
ner s meeting written some time ago by
William Shakspeare :
RICHARD 111.
Act V, Scene 2—The Camp near Tainvvorth.
(Enter: Richmond, Oxford, Blunt, Herbert and
others, with drum and colors.)
Richmond (Bk'Uxner) :
“Fellows in arms, and my most loving friends,
Bruised underneath the yoke of tyrannv,
Thus far into the bowels of the land
Have we march’d on without impediment;
And here receive we from our father Stanley
Lines of fair comfort and encouragement.
The wretched, bloody and usurping boar
That spoil’d your summer fields and fruitful vines,
Swills your warm blood like wash, and makes his
trough
In your embowell’d bosoms, this foul swine
Lies now even in the centre of this isle,
Near to the town of Leicester, as we learn:
From Tamworth thither is but one day’s march.
In God’s name, cheerly on, courageous friends,
To reap the harvest of perpetual peace
By this one bloody trial of sharp war.”
Oxford :
“Every man s conscience is a thousand swords,
To fight against that bloody homicide.”
Herbert:
“I doubt not but his friends will fly to us.”
Blunt:
“He hath no friends but who are friends for fear,
Which in his greatest need will shrink from him.”
Richmond (Bktjxner) :
“All for our vantage. Then, in God’s name, march:
True hope is swift, and flies with swallow’s wings;
Kings it makes gods and meaner creatures kings.”


Lang and Forgan Smith.
Did Forgan Smith, leader of the Queensland
Labor Opposition, study Lang’s policy
speech, delivered at Auburn on September
23, 1930, before delivering his own at
Mackay last month? It looks like it; on
material points the Queensland gentleman
spoke in the strain of a pupil imitating his
master. But let Queenslanders judge for
themselves: —
LANG.
Every public pledge
Premier Bavin gave he
repudiated. Was there
ever such an ignominious
record of repudiation?
There is sufficient
money in our own State
to finance the Govern-
ment, provided it has a
sound and economical
policy of expansion to
inspire the confidence of
investors. Labor, if re-
turned to office, will find
the money to complete
all those uncompleted
public works.
A vigorous policy of
road construction will
absorb many thousands
of our unemployed. In
addition, special efforts
will be made to assist
and stimulate industry
generally. These pro-
visions, coupled with the
speedy application of
the law to divide up the
big estates, will relieve
the unemployment posi-
tion and restore that
prosperity associated
with the former Labor
Administrations.
The Labor party, if re-
turned, will restore arbi-
tration and return to
the Court its full func-
tion of regulating wages
and conditions of indus-
try. It will restore the
44-hour week.
Organised marketing
.... reafforestation o n
suitable lands and the
introduction of a fodder
conservation scheme are
measures that Labor will
take.
We will remove the
legislation by which
salaries were reduced
and allow the remunera-
tion of public servants
to be governed by the
Arbitration Court.
FORGAN SMITH.
The [Moore] Govern-
ment’s record has been
one of cynical repudia-
tion and callous infidelity
to their pledges.
Labor will pursue a
financial policy in keep-
ing with the resources of
the State. A special
loan of £2,500,000
from Queensland citizens
will be invited and
Queenslanders will be
asked to become partners
in this onward drive to
better times. The money
so raised will be utilised
for reproductive works.
The policy of road
construction will be con-
tinued. A vigorous
land settlement policy
will be pursued. The
public expenditure gen-
erally will be devoted to
those activities which
will increase employment
and develop industry.
Had the Government
properly utilised the
resources conserved by
the Labor Government,
over 8000 additional
workers per annum could
have been employed at
award rates.
Labor will restore
access to the Arbitration
Court and grant the full
protection of the in-
dustrial code to all sec-
tions of wage-earners.
The 44-hour week will
be restored.
Labor will provide for
a system of orderly
marketing... .a drought
insurance scheme and
introduce a Forestry Bill
that will put the indus-
try on a sound basis.
The Public Safety Act
will be repealed, and
dismissed men will be
reinstated, if Labor is
returned. [This was said
at. Bowen on May 9.]
In one respect, the pupil, if he becomes
Premier, is not likely to rival the master.
It will be difficult for him to break Queens-
land’s Savings Bank, since that institution
was long ago transferred to the Common-
wealth. But a Government that tried to
restore boom-time conditions by boom-time
methods—paying award rates for relief
work, reviving 1928 salaries in the Govern-
ment departments and giving railwaymen
the 44-hour week—could do a power of
mischief, and retard Queensland’s recovery
for years.
The very effort to fulfil impossible pro-
mises produces a reckless state of mind in
which dangerous things may be done, as
N. S. Wales has learned to its sorrow.
Queensland Labor’s bid for the public-
service vote, and the aggressive pro-Labor
attitude of the public-service organisations,
reproduce what was perhaps the worst
feature of Lang’s election campaign. Yet
the N.S.W. public servants never saw the
Salary Reduction Bill he promised to intro-
duce without delay. A time came when
they would have got no salaries at all but
for the Scullin Government and the Com-
monwealth Bank. And by involving them
in his rebellion against the Commonwealth,
Lang made the outlook for a lot of them
extremely bleak. Queensland public ser-
vants would do well to ponder on these
considerations instead of following the
leaders of their unions blindly into the
Labor camp.
The Relief of Mortgagors.
The Federal Labor party has drafted a
programme for the N. S. Wales State elec-
tion, and very properly devotes much atten-
tion to mortgages and other fixed charges.
It would prefer to see the restoration of
price levels to those of 1928-29; but as we
ourselves can bring that about only by
inflation of our currency, which would not
affect overseas prices in the least, it suggests
as an alternative a 221 p.c. reduction of all
fixed money charges due by farmers and
others.
The Bulletin has already said that
something ought to be done in this matter
to facilitate national recovery. The Pre-
miers, when they drew up their plan, saw
this, too, though apparently they did not
go into detail—they were too much con-
cerned at the moment with balancing their
own budgets. They did, however, say that
“concurrently with the reduction of bond
interest must go a reduction in private
interest,” and added:—
This is mainly a matter for the banks, who are
co-operating to that end.... This reduction of
interest will be supplemented by legislation giving
relief to mortgagors. This legislation forms part of
the plan.
But the agreed-upon reduction of Bond
interest had an important addition. It
was realised that not only would the pay-
ment of the old rates of interest be an
“intolerable burden,” but the repayment ot
principal at the due dates would be an
impossibility. Therefore a conversion loan
was decided upon, “to be spread over 1U
fixed maturity dates as a general rule
each holding to be spread equally over'the
10 dates.” The first period was fixed at
seven years —that is to say, the first repay-
ment was to be made in 1938; the last ran
to 1961. r
The justification for all this, apart, ot
course, from our national necessities, was
that the purchasing power of money had
enormously increased; and, though there
was no writing down of principal, care
was taken that no instant or even early
demand might be made. Time was secured
for a possible recovery in prices.
The difficulties of many of the mort-
gagors are at least as great as those of the
Governments. And they spring from the
same causes. When most of the advances
on farm lands were made, prices were
approximately twice as great as they are
now. A calculation made by the U.b.A.
Department of Agriculture shows that the
average price of all farm produce in Janu-
ary of this year was only 63 p.c. of the
average over the last five pre-war years,
while the prices of goods which farmers
are accustomed to buy were 121 p.c. greater;
which means that the farmer’s produce is
worth to him only 51 p.c. of what it was
in the pre-war years. Our own index-figures
show that Australian exports which realised
£2803 in 1924-25 brought no more than
£1591 in the 1929-30 season; and commodi-
ties that were worth wholesale £lB6 in
Sydney in 1929 were worth at the end of
March only £153. But obviously if the
farmer can get no more than half as much
for his produce, the person to whom he pays
money can buy twice as much with the
money he receives from the farmer whether
it comes by way of interest or principal.
Some relief has been given to the farmei,
no doubt, through reduced interest and the
moratorium provisions. But he has not
had the definite relief which the Govern-
ments assured to themselves through the
conversion loan and the wide spread of
repayments. Nor would the proposal of the
Federal Labor party give him the same
relief. The two schemes are entirely differ-
ent. The Governments neither sought nor
got any reduction of principal; they got
a 221 p.c. reduction of interest along with
extended time for repayment of principal.
That meant, certainly, a reduction of the
present market value of loans; but it did
not amount to 221 p.c. At the present
time the earliest maturities (1938) are worth
about £94 10s.—a reduction of 51 p.c.—
and the most remote (1961) are worth
£B7 10s.—a reduction of 121 p.c. The Fed-
eral Labor proposal would thus put mort-
gagees on a worse footing than Government
bondholders, and there seems no justifica-
tion for that. There is, however, strong
justification for giving mortgagors relief
equal to that which the Governments
secured for themselves, although it can
obviously not be done in the same way—
a compulsory deferment of payment of any
part of a mortgage for 30 years would be
out of the question in the vast majority
of cases.
♦
Unholy Traffic in Votes.
At the bottom of it all lack of sincerity has
been the cause of most of our troubles.
When the unions were fighting their battles
in the ’eighties and early ’nineties, the
unionist was one by conviction, and his
affairs were in the hands, chiefly, of zealous
missionaries. Then unionism was made
compulsory, and the old missionary spirit
was lost; men became unionists not be-
cause it was right but because it was profit-
able. Inevitably the control of the unions
soon changed to correspond. The Trades
Hall ceased to be a place where unpaid
or illpaid lovers of their fellow-men toiled
on behalf of their unions; it, became
instead the headquarters of brisk gentle-
men capable of winning, by hook or by
crook, the best possible terms for the body
which employed them. No high moral
purpose actuated them; you would prob-
ably find a good deal more of that among
the bookmakers at Tattersall’s Club.
But if the Trades Hall has ceased to be
a meeting-place of zealous, unselfish mis-
sionaries and has become the headquarters
of a new profession of cunning negotiators
and wire-pullers, Parliament has suffered
a still greater change. It, too, has become
a profession, offering men as much as six
times more than the basic wage, with
abundance of pickings, and requiring no
serious labor at all—offering, moreover, the
job for two or perhaps three years cer-
tain. with the promise that- if the holder
“works his nut” he may either go on hold-
ing it for life or engineer himself into such
a billet as he could never hope for outside
of politics. In the circumstances it is not
surprising that Parliamentary membership
has become one of the most sought-after
jobs in the country, especially among those
who have never been able to make much
more than the basic wage for themselves.
But even that might not be a matter
of much consequence if it were not for
the method by which the appointments are
made. Unfortunately that method lends
itself to colossal corruption. This is mainly
due to three facts: (1) everybody, man
and woman, has a vote in the selection of
candidates for these extraordinarily profit-
able jobs; (2) the control of tax and loan
money is in the hands of the men who have
hitherto won the jobs ana in the vast
majority of cases want desperately to win
them again; and (3) the party system
allows of team work in the purchase ot
votes. ...
For 20 years the politicians had been
buying their jobs at the expense of the
public; and the money had come mostly
out of loans. In the financial year 1905-06
the total amount of loans spent by all the
Australian States was no more than
£3,556,955; and that had been a fair aver-
age for several years. By 1913-14, the year
before the war, the competition for votes
had carried the total spent in the year up
to £20,737,984. By 1927-28 it had reached
no less than £35,024,668. Down to 1906
the total amount of debt outstanding was
238 millions—the accumulated debt of over
100 years; and of the total amount ovei
two-thirds was represented by railways that
were earning over 4 p.c. Between 1918
and 1928—in 10 years—the same States
spent 330 millions of loan money.
In the years prior to 1906 members had
not found it necessary to bribe the electors,
though already the of the
demoralisation were to be seen. Since then
politics—in N. S. Wales especially—have
become little more than a competition m
corruption.
The inevitable crash came late m 1929.
In the following year Bavin said they
must live differently—his party was defi-
nitely out of the unholy competition. Lang,
on the other hand, promised to carry on;
he and the bulk of his followers, brought
up in the new Trades Hall school, knew no
other way. To them office was the one
thing that mattered; purchase was the only
way they knew of getting it. Two courses
had been open: they could depend upon
their own merits to get votes or they could
try to get the money for vote-buying pur-
poses elsewhere. They decided to try to get
it elsewhere —by not paying their debts
and by fleecing the “capitalists.”
The early Labor party, with its high
ideals, sought the public good, and was
one of the most unselfish bodies in the
world. The gang of professional politicians
which now calls itself the Labor party seeks
first its own good, and everything else
has to serve that purpose. Of that there
is unhappily overwhelming proof. What
would the great founders of the Labor
party have said of a Ministry which, while
professing to be the special protectors of the
widows and orphans, withheld payment of
the widows’ and orphans’ pensions, though
they had over a million in the Treasury, in
the hope that they might score off then-
political rivals —willing, in order to save
their own jobs, to coin votes out of the
hunger of widows and children!
4
Where They Do Things Differently.
When the institution of kingship was in
its infancy, the ruler, royal or political,
was held responsible for the country’s woes.
If the rain failed and the crops were ruined,
the king was killed; similarly if he failed
to defeat his country’s enemies. When kings
became strong enough to alter a rule that
caused them inconvenience, they instituted
puppet kings, just as newspapers m China
have shadow editors who go to prison when
the real editors have overstepped the mark
and committed lese-majeste or libel. The
puppet king was hanged and the real king
ruled on. It may have been a dim recol-
lection of this old European custom which
prompted the demand to hang the Tvaisei
for causing the l\orld War.
Japan has copied the West in this as in
everything else. In the good old days it
was the custom for statesmen who had
lost the confidence of Heaven to remove
themselves from this earthly sphere without
putting the private executioner to the
trouble of doing the job for them. But
the corruption of Western ideas has gone
on apace, and the defeated Japanese poll-
tician nowadays retires to his farm, or
joins a bank directorate, or bobs up again
with a party of his own. This is the real
reason for the increase in political assassi-
nations in Japan. That the assassins regard
their crime as a public duty is shown by
the fact that when Prime Minister Inukai
was shot the other day, the 30 murderers,
who were not anarchists, but conserv ativ e
young army and navy men, gave them-
selves up. the army and navy Ministers
resigned, and the Government took the
hint and followed them.
Tobacco.
In connection with tobacco-growing in Aus-
tralia. we shall have to pay now for past
neglect Encouragement of the industry
hitherto has been almost entirely lacking,
and when it came it was because we obvi-
ously hadn’t the millions the imported leal
had been costing us. But, unfortunately, it
is not a business which can oe successfully
built up in a hurry. Tobacco of all major
crops is the most uncertain; the best seed
planted in a new region cannot be depended
upon to produce the leaf it did m its old
habitat. There almost certainly are places
in Australia where leaf as good as that of
Havana and the Philippines can be grown,
but we shall have to find by trial and error
where they are. It is not a matter only
of soil; it is a matter of soil and climate
together. In the past years we should have
been putting our climates and our soils to
the test, slowly learning by experience as
we learned by experience how to produce
wines. That we can grow enough tobacco
for our use is certain; and past neglect
and present necessities may oblige us for
the next few years to , smoke a leaf of poorer
quality than we have been accustomed to.
The danger we ought to avoid (and Thk
Bulletin has a good deal of sympath}'
with Minister of Customs Gullett in trying
to avoid it) is the giving of encouragement
to growers of indifferent leaf to continue
growing it. Something like that is one
of the main reasons why we are paying far
too much for sugar; too much of the crop
comes from land not best suited by soil
and climate for its production.
4
Stevens and the Labor Vote.
Dear Bulletin, —Mr. Stevens has an oppor-
tunity to capture the old-time labor vote
such as no man before him has had. Dis-
satisfaction was never as obvious. Messiahs
are at a discount, except with the loud-
mouthed. For every one in employment
who is crying “Lang is Right” a dozen are
busy thinking. The period of crisis, if it
has done nothing else, has brought with it
a realisation that politicians are not
miracle-workers. But the message has to
be one of hope. Mr. Stevens will have to
state plainly that sacrifices are necessary,
but that no sacrifice will be asked for that
is not imperative. Let him tell the workers
that sacrifices, as far as is humanly possible,
will be equal. He must have the courage
to say that a 15 per cent, reduction to a
man on the basic wage is a greater sacrifice
than a 15 per cent, reduction to a £l5-a-
-week man. If he will say things like that
and act upon them he will gain the con-
fidence of the wage-earner, and he will be
surprised at the vote, even in industrial
strongholds.—Yours, An Old-time Unionist.
4
“Ya Hassein, Ya Hossein.”
If there are any who still persist in the
obsession, popular a year or two ago, that
India is ripe for self-government, recent
happenings in Bombay may shake their
faith. The Hindus and Moslems of the big
city have been at each other’s throats
according to age-old tradition. Not even
the presence of British and Indian troops
availed to instantly quell the outbreak.
Every year, when the Moslem month of
Mohurrum comes round, the members ol
the Shiah sect, which is one of the great
divisions of Islam and comprises the majo-
rity of Indian Moslems, mourn for the
death of Hassein and Hossein, sons of All
and nephews of the Prophet, who were put
to death by the Sunni sect many hundreds
of years ago. The mourning lasts for a
week and takes the form of processions
in which are borne gaily-decorated shrines
emblematic of the martyrs. The processions,
chanting continually “Ya, Hassein, Ya Hos-
sein,” work themselves to a state of frenzy.
Even outside India these celebrations are
familiar to folk who have lived in South
Africa or Fiji, where the Indian Moslems
are strongly represented. The ceremonies
give the bitterly antagonistic Hindu the
chance he is always spoiling for. Usually
he begins proceedings by throwing a dead
pig into the nearest mosque. Then, while
local Islam is buzzing like a nest of hornets,
he attacks the processions and, if possible,
destroys and pollutes the sacred shrines.
It is hardly necessary to say that on the
eve of the Mohurrum in every Indian
town of importance which has a Moslem-
Hindu population the civil police make
elaborate preparations, while the military
garrison is called on to stand by. If inter-
vention is possible early in the proceedings,
a few broken heads and looted shops result,
at the worst. Occasionally the trouble
develops so quickly and on such a scale
that the forces on the spot are helpless in
the initial stages. In the latest case the
situation has been aggravated by the fact
that Bombay lias developed into a huge
manufacturing centre on modern lines, full
of great mills employing many thousands.
Factory operatives anywhere are notoriously
turbulent. In Bombay a great many of
them are Pathans lured to the city from the
North-West by the wages to be won. These
people are the most fanatical of Moslem*
and a fighting race to boot.
What has been happening in Bombay
happens annually throughout India on a
varying scale. Much more virile and
aggressive than most of their Hindu com-
patriots, the Moslems are in a great mino-
rity. They are watchfully resentful of
Hindu claims to self-determination for the
whole of India, realising that if anything
of the sort were granted it would mean
their practical obliteration as a separate
entity; and the only possible outcome of
a grant by the British Government of
complete Home Rule to India must be a
welter of disorder and bloodshed.
4
Let’s Loaf While Others Work.
The visit of two Japanese training ships
ought to set us asking what we are doing
for our own lads with seagoing aspirations.
The discreditable fact is that we are now the
one white nation which is content to let
others do all its sea-carrying jobs. We have
the goods, the ships and the men; but we
allow our ships to rot, and our men to
swell the unemployed, while we pay vast
sums to foreigners for carrying our wool
and wheat and other staples to then-
markets. All we can plead is that it
wouldn’t pay us. What are we—so in-
fernally inferior or so infernally superior
that we can’t do what otheis aie mighty
glad to do?


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
D'I'VCCtOTS *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW. V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND-
ED WARD RITCHIE KNOX. ’
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and at Canberra
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
0 . __ t- , of , . G l n 4 ral Bankin S and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Diamond Engagement Mings
£25
£2O
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
HARDY BROS. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE.
116 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
With the help of the Coekies and of Jones,
who led for Labor in the Upper House, Stan-
ley Argyle has formed a national Ministry
in Victoria. Jones will assist Argyle in the
Treasury besides resuming control of Works,
Mines and Immigration. Dunstan, Mani-
fold and Cohen are the men new to office:
Ivent-Hughes, in as an honorary, was secre-
tary to the McPherson Ministry. The Young
Nat. section of the U.A.P. has three Min-
isters (it wanted more), and so have the
Coekies.
According to a cable, a former Premier
of Lithuania, one Vytautas Petrnlis, has
been fined £2OOO and sentenced to 18
months’ imprisonment for maladministration
while in office. The Lithuanians have come
to the conclusion that Petrulis was Wrong.
By a majority of nine Republicans the elec-
tive chamber of the Free State Parliament
has decided to abolish the oath of allegiance.
But though this has been advanced as a test
of republicanism or separation, Prime
Minister do Valera proposes to be present
at the Ottawa conference with a delegation
of 18. Australia and Maorilaud have a say
in that matter, and may refuse to sit with
the De Valera party. If the Free State has
seceded, then every Irishman from the Free
State who came to Australia since the Free
State became a dominion will rank as an
alien.
Gullett got his tobacco duties accepted by
the House of Reps, after an all-night sitting.
The voting was 37 for the duties and 30
against; the noes consisted of the two Labor
factions and the Coekies, Gregory excepted—
Gregory voted with the Government, as also
did his fellow-Westralian Watson, the Inde-
pendent. But eight U.A.P.’s joined the
Coekies and the Labor factionists in asking
for further consideration of the reduced
duties on edible nuts, and the Government
found itself eight votes down. Tariff revision
downward is now to be shelved.
Mr. Piddington, chairman of the N.S.W.
Industrial Commission, resigned last week
because he disagreed with the Governor in
dismissing Lang. Mr. Piddington has a per-
fect right to disagree with the Governor:
so has Mr. Smith, the stock inspector at
Bourke. But if Mr. Smith resigned as a
protest, we should say it showed that he
“Don’t shoot —I’m coming down.”
was not well-balanced enough to be a stock
inspector. There is no visible reason why
we should think any different with regard to
Mr. Piddington and his job.
Piddington’s resignation relieves Lang of
an election embarrassment. He will be 70
on September 9, and in the ordinary course
of events would have to retire then —a.s Alex-
ander Gordon had to retire from the Supreme
Court and Edward Scholes from the District
Court in the same month. But ordinary
rules do not apply to “Piddo,” who if Lang
gets back is to have his appointment re-
newed for seven yeai's at an increased salary.
The declared “policy” of Lang’s party is
that Government employees must go at
65, and in pursuit of that “policy” his Trans-
port Commissioners set out to retire 900
railway- and tramway-men. These men all
have votes and control other votes; many
of them have sons and brothers in the de-
partment ; and there are probably 2000 others
(also with votes and the means of influenc-
ing other votes) who will turn 65 during the
uext three years. The Langsters are sure
to be tackled on their rank inconsistency in
sacking workers at 65 and keeping a lawyer
on till he is 77. Now, thanks to “Piddo,”
they can sidestep.
Tas. Parliament is booked to reopen to-
day for a brief session. It will be without
Premier-Treasurer McPhce, who is off on a
health trip, leaving Lee to present the un-
cheerful financial statement. McPhee has
been exhibiting signs of weariness, and no-
body would be violently astonished to hear of
him handing over the leadership to the much
tougher deputy for keeps.
Vic. Labor used to be fond of pointing
out that it was impossible to reach Mel-
bourne from any part of the State without
travelling extensively over territory it held.
The late election has made a big difference.
Seven rural seats were lost, and the outer
rim of the north-of-Yarra constituencies
has been lopped off by the U.A.P. conquest
of Pleidelbcrg and Essendon. Port Mel-
bourne, for which Murphy got a walkover,
is Labor’s solitary fastness south of the
Yarra, Albei't Park, Prahran, Oakleigh and
Dandenong having been collared by the
Argyle-Menzies bunch.
“In the lobbies it is believed that Mr. Lang will
soon transfer himself to Federal politics.”
“It’s a poor mouse that has only one hole.”
In the dying hours of the session the M.L.
Parliament extended its life for a year. It
is now absolved from the necessity of con-
sulting the electors before December, 1935.
The Massey-Ward war-time Administra-
tion did the same thing, holding office from
1915 till 1919. A few Government supporters
went into the “noes” lobby on the latest
occasion, among them one of Massey’s sons
and ex-Minister A. D. McLeod. McLeod
said he favored four-year Parliaments, but
legislation of that sort shouldn’t apply to
the Parliament that enacted it.
Lang’s newspaper describes the sudden
promotion of Police-Superintendent Mackay
as “the reward of dogged perseverance and
a capacity for handling any situation.” For
example, Rothbury.
Lang is putting up Eldridge, sometime
M.H.R. for Martin, against Stevens in
Croydon. The U.A.P. is nominating P. ,T.
Wilkins, a nephew of Digger Gordon Wilkins,
who is getting the support of both Ministerial
parties, for Bathurst, against Lang. Some-
U.A.P.’s would like to withdraw the Auburn
Wilkins and let Coleman, the Federal Labor
man, oppose the boss-defaulter and bank-
smasher. These tactics would do Stevens’s
party harm. Lang would say, and his mob
would thunderously repeat, that it was afraid
to tackle him in his own electorate, and this
would be believed to the new Government’s
detriment. As the Federal and municipal
elections showed, there are thousands of
U.A.P. supporters in Auburn, and these
people should not be compelled to choose
between Lang and a member of another Labor
faction. Nor should any seat be regarded
as hopeless. Batman (Vic.) looked a far
tougher proposition than Auburn has ever
done; in 1929 Frank Brennan, M.H.R. for
Batman since 1911, polled over 3 to 1 —
46,666 to 14,896. Yet Brennan, standing
as Attorney-General, was beaten by 959 in
December.
Sydney “Worker” quotes with approval
the assertion of a Queensland Labor can-
didate that “the worst Labor Government
is better than any Tory Government.” Then
in the very next paragraph a contributor
asks: “If Lang is Right, how does it happen
that everything in the Lang State is wrong?”
The “Worker” man goes on to say:—
The number of the unemployed doubled while
Lang was in power, an ever-increasing proportion of
the population had nothing but the miserable dole
between them and starvation, and a truly staggering
deficit was piled up. In addition, he finished up
by giving the Governor an excuse to sack him when
he had been in office only half his time.
To complete the story, Lang burst his Sav-
ings Bank, had to surrender it to the Com-
monwealth, couldn’t pay his civil servants,
accepted the Premiers’ plan in order to ger
money for them, repudiated it, defaulted
in 1931 and 1932, had his revenue garni-
sheed, tried to rob mortgagees (including
the A.M.P. and Sydney Uni.) of 10 p.c.,
violated his own Audit Act, violated the
Financial Agreements Enforcement Act,
and was dismissed because he was involving
the Crown in his campaign of lawbreaking.
No Tory Government ever had a record like
that.
Though he was met with organised oppo-
sition at his Toowoomba and Brisbane meet-
ings, Premier Moore has had a triumphal pro-
gress in North Queensland. The North used
to be solid for Labor. It began moving away
when it realised that the Millennium had
been indefinitely postponed, and Mungana
accelerated the movement.
Acting-Governor Irvine is credited with
having blocked Executive Council approval
being given to a recommendation by the
outgoing Ministry that defeated-colleague
Webber should be appointed a trustee of
Melbourne Cricket Ground and defeated-
colleague Slater a trustee of the Amateur
Sports Ground. At any rate, the draft
orders did not go through. The crew that
was only minding the ship till the Argyles
took charge next morning could do nothing,
except, perhaps, console itself with the re-
flection that it had already put Slater,
Bailey, Hayes, Cotter and Calwell (ex-
president of the A.L.P.) on the M.C.C.
trust. There is no pay, but there is free
admittance and an occasional lunch with
Somebodies.
Stevens, coming N.S.W. Premier, under-
takes not to do anything rash with regard
to the personal-covenant clause in mortgages.
The Lang Government deleted the clause
without knowing in the least what it meant:
all that mattered was that deletion .seemed
a fine smack in the eye for mortgagees. But
it is a worse smack in the eye for the honest
mortgagor, who finds himself on the same
footing now as the shark. Also hundreds
of thousands of pounds which were formerly
available for mortgages have gone into bank
deposits; and the effect of that must be to
put up mortgage rates. Where mortgages
have been signed without the personah-cov-
enant clause, of .course it shouldn’t be in-
serted ; but it ought to be made possible to
put it into all new ones.
It is a good augury for the success of the
Stevens-Bruxner Government on June 11
that the Melbourne Trades Hall bosses, who
wrecked the Hogan Government, are cham-
pioning Lang. These foolish fellows have had
the face to demand that the Federal Labor
group, led by Joe Coates, should withdraw
and leave the field to the Langsters. The
attitude of Labor Jeaders in other States is
significant. South Aus. Premier Hill has
sent a congratulatory message to Stevens.
Forgan Smith, while making up to look
something like the Lang of 1930, protests
JACK LANG: “What bait ’re you using,
Forgie?”
FORGAN SMITH: “Same as you did the time
you caught so many.”
LANDG: “You’re gone a million, Forgie.
They found out all about that bait a
year ago.”
that to represent his party as following the
1931-82 Lang is to “defame” it —“the state-
ment is as ridiculous as it is malicious.” And
Collier, in Westralia, denounces Premier Mit-
chell for “having coupled my name with that
of Mr. Lang.” “Never in my political life
have I advocated repudiation or dishonesty
in political finance,” says Collier, who has
more brains in his little finger than Lang
has in his whole carcase.
One of the trials of Forgan Smith’s life
at present is the attitude of his deputy, Percy
Pease, who sits for Herbert. Percy insists
on proclaiming at every meeting that his
party is in favor of reducing all interest,
payments to nil, and will do so if returned
Smith hasn’t been able to find a definite
slogan for his party as yet. Perhaps “Pease
be still,” would do.
“The chairman of the Commonwealth Bank Board
rebuts Mr. Bang's assertion that the Lang Govern-
ment could not pay widows’ pensions and other
social-service allowances ‘owing to banking facilities
being denied.’ He says that when N.S.W. revenue was
attached under the financial-emergency legislation
he wrote to the N.S.W. Treasury saying that the
bank would still provide the facilities for making-
such payments.”
“But why won’t you give me food, Mr.
Lang?”
“Because, living you are worth only one
vote to us. Starved to death, we
might make you worth a hundred.”
On an unemployed-relief tax of 3d. in the
£ the Bavin Government provided a fair
amount of work, and in Queensland only
nomads can say they have had no toil from
the relief tax of 3d., since raised to 6d. But
thousands of N.S.W. unemployed registered
at labor exchanges haven’t had a tap since
Lang raised Bavin’s tax (he promised to
abolish it) to Is. Government jobs were
nevertheless found for 258 Lang-planners,
mostly as “dole inspectors” or election can-
vassers; also fat advertising contracts were
given to a Labor sheet circulating in Adel-
aide ; and three chairmen of conciliation
committees, with little to do, were appointed
at £l5 a week, the salaries being debited to
the unemployed-relief fund. “Lang-is-Right”
lawyers have also fared well. After two
appeals the conviction of Eric Campbell, of
the New Guard, for “insulting” the darling
of the mob has been quashed, with costs
against the Crown; but in this case and
others fees have been fed to young lions of
the University Labor Club, which was the
first to pronounce Lang Right, so defeat has
its consolations.
Piddington to the Governor: “I resign
because everything I have revered and served
in British rule in this State seems to me
to be overthrown.” Not, it seems, by Lang,
w r ho defaulted to British investors, the
Commonwealth Government and the Com-
monwealth Bank, in repudiating his pledge
to the electors that he would not repudiate—
not by the Government which tried to drive
a carriage and four through the Federal
Constitution (all these proceedings left Pid-
dington’s withers unwrung, as also did
Lang’s boast that he had had “that iniquitous
principle the sanctity of the written contract
’deleted’”), but by the King’s representa-
tive when he caused the guilty Administra-
tion to face its masters, the people. “This,”
said “Piddo,” “destroyed constitutional
government.” Piffle, thine other name is
Piddington !
An appeal to a Sydney magistrate against
the revocation of a license to carry a pistol
had curious features. Appellant took out
the license in 1931 and it was renewed in
January. Foreman of a carrying business in
Pyrmont, he has to bank or withdraw con-
siderable sums. In trying to recover stolen
newspapers, he was set upon by four men
and surrounded by a menacing crowd. He
drew his pistol and held off his attackers
until the police came to his rescue and made
an arrest; shortly after that his license
was revoked. The district police inspector
gave the man an excellent character, but
said he did not think him fit to carry a
pistol. On this point the inspector was
flatly contradicted by the district sergeant.
The (no doubt) puzzled magistrate allowed
the appeal, and it is not now likely that his
decision will be reversed. If N. S. Wales had
remained safe for mobocracy, it is unbeliev-
able that sportive Pyrmont bashers would
have been subjected to the risk of being
plugged in self-defence by a mere “boorjoiee.”


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“M.G-S.”: I am interested in the state-
ment of one of the successful candidates in
the Vic. election that he probably lost a
number of votes because he was classed as a
gentleman. He felt obliged to deny that he
was a gentleman, as opposition canvassers
were using the accusation to sway public
opinion against him. W lien he sent in his
nomination paper he omitted to state his
occupation, so the electoral officer filled in
the blank with “gentleman ; actually he
is not a gentleman but a retired faimei.
Apparently a man can’t be a retired farmer
and a gentleman at one and the same time,
unless he has presented some ot his earnings
to party funds and been made a Sir or an
0.8. E. or something. H'e may be a gentle-
man by nature, hut when he enters politics
he has to become a sort of surreptitious or
concealed gentleman, like a secret drinker
in a family of Presbyterians, practising his
vice in holes and corners and strenuously
denying it in public. ...
“Nakhoda” : Ballarat turned out cii masse
to witness the ceremony of uniting the spirit
of .Casa Singh, a local
hawker, with his
fathers. Under the
supervision of the
city health officer a
funeral pyre of three
tons of firewood was
piled on the Ballarat
common. The body
was brought by his
co-religionists from
Mount Pleasant and
placed upon the pyre,
and another three tons
of fuel completely
buried it. After a
priest had performed
the simple rites appro-
priate to the occasion,
a match was applied
to the pyramid, and in
a short time nothing
but ashes remained.
These were well mixed
and a portion col-
lected. In happier
circumstances the. soul
of Casa Singh would
have been consigned to
the Ganges. The best
equivalent for the
river which flows from
the toe of Brahm was
a neighboring dam, and on its still surface
the remains of the exile were reverently
scattered.
* $ $ *
“Panis” : It looks as if the original source
of boarding-house bread has been discovered
in Brisbane. The site of an old bush-house
was being dug over when a small loaf was
found three feet in the earth. It was quite
eatable, though it is supposed to have been
underground for 40 years. The bush-house
site w r as established as long ago as that, ami
had never been disturbed in the meantime,
save for a shallow bed in which Amaryllis
lilies have been growing for a generation.
* * * *
“Bloggs”: At Kirribilli the other night
W. M. Hughes called Lang “one of the
bubbles of a hell’s broth,” and “a tangled
skein that someone had to unravel, also a
“delusion and a snare.” It helped to per-
petuate his reputation as Australia s cham-
pion platitudinarian, though for a wondei
there were no references to the writing
on the wall, nor to the grand old flag
which has braved the battle and the
breeze, nor even to that wealth which
gotten by vanity diminishes, and when
heaped on wealth nor truth nor safety
buys. Billy, like most successful mob-
orators, has a third-rate mind. He thinks
in cliches, bellows his shop-worn gags out
as if he had coined them himselt, and is
cheered by morons who love old thoughts
because the mental strain of coping with
new ones worries them. The very qualities
which made Hughes a platform success
made him the abject failure he is as a
writer. There is no demand, nowadays, for
false sentiment, decorated with stale quota-
tions, outside those journals which make a
feature of “human interest stories about
murderers, ravishers and the like.
“P. Pawnticket”:
A backwash of the
Lindbergh affair has
been felt in our
Sydney suburb.
Babies began to
disappear from go-
carts and lawns.
Recovery was not
difficult, but some
of the matrons
complained to the
police, and suspi-
cion fell on a group
of small boys who
had a knack of
arriving at places
where distracted
mothers were weep-
ing for their van-
ished offspring
with an offer to
make a search for
a bob. The search
was always suc-
cessful. One search
party was follow-
ed, and members
of it were yarded
up as juvenile
menaces to the
peace of the community, a hey will now-
have to look for another way of making
pocket-money.
* *
“H.A.L.” : If I wanted to hide from the
police, give me Adelaide rather than Sydney
(B. 4/5/’32). Between the Holy City and
the sea, around the tidal creeks forming the
headwaters of the Port river, are tea-tree
swamps and sandhills covered, with native
pines ; a good runner could be hidden in them
within an hour of leaving the G.P.O. Farther
north are thickets of mangroves which stretch
for miles up the coast; on the other side ot
the city are the foothills of the Mt. Lofty
ranges; within a mile of the plains, are dense
scrubs and thickly-timbered gullies. Yet
almost every criminal or gaol-breaker who
has sought shelter in any of these hiding-
places has soon been laid by the heels in a
very short time, the average gaolbird being
no bushman. The few exceptions have
led the police a merry dance. One was a
surly old German market-gardener who was
wanted for the war-internment camp.
Warned by his dog, he took to the hills and
hid for three weeks in a gully. A bad cold
made him give himself up. When asked
where he had secreted himself, he replied
scornfully, “In der bracken.” ..
“I) J.” ; A bankrupt Sydney florist told
the Registrar last week that, “being forced
to move from King-street to George-street
was the firm’s undoing.” The Civil Service
Stores were ruined by having to move Irom
Pitt-street to George-street. It doesn’t mean
that there is anything wrong with George-
street as a trading centre (Anthony Hor-
derns’ have been there for nearly .10 years) :
only that it isn’t suited for certain businesses.
A firm that has been shifted from the site
on which its original success was made never
does so well if it struggles back. The florists
above-mentioned are once more in King-street,
"Where, according to evidence given in the
WONDERFUL PARENT!
“Isn’t our daddy wonderful? Nobody told
him we’d got colds, yet as,soon as lie ”
came in last night he told mummy something had gone wrong with the clutch."
Bankruptcy Court, “their earnings used to
be £l5O a day” ; they will never make any-
thing like that again, though flowers sell better
in King-street than in any other thorough-
fare in Australia. Old Frederick Lassetter
made a fortune out of ironmongery on the
site that brought about the downfall of the
Civil Service Stores: but when Lassetter 11.
(“the Colonel”) made.a general store of the
concern it began to go back. Why will
. people buy pots and pans in a certain part
of a city and not, say, softgoods? A few
yards make all the difference. .On the other
side of the street from the area where the
Civil Service failed is Farmers’. Some busi-
nesses go phut through sticking to their sites
too long. The Quay and environs were ideal
places to sell plants (not flowers), small
goods, drinks and fish before the Bridge
closed down the Milson’s Point, Lane Cove
and other wharves. Now things are rela-
tively slack in that part of the city—as
slack as they would be among the barbers
and tobacconists of the Castlereagh-Hunter-
street area if the Union, N. S. Wales and
Australian clubs all failed together and the
Stock Exchange were moved to the site it
should occupy in the vicinity of the G.P.O.
NO SAY.
THE MAN: “Great range, hasn’t she—voice enough for two?”
THE WOMAN: “Yes. I suppose that’s why she doesn’t allow her husband to have any.
[A hitherto unpublished drawing by Ruby Lindsay, the gifted sister of Norman, who
died in London a dozen years ago.]
“Chevroford” : There is a baby racing-cai
in Melbourne whose record of outrage and
murder during the last two and. a halt yeais
exceeds those of some of our leading criminals.
At an inquest on its latest victim, a motor-
mechanic engaged in testing it after repaiis,
a colleague stated that it had been m 1
accidents to his knowledge. On . one
occasion it hit a firecart and badly twisted
its chassis; this had caused a disease ot the
steering gear. Subsequent accidents had ex-
aggerated its evil propensities until it was
a death trap for anybody to drive it. More-
over, its brakes were so defective that at
15 m.p.li. it was impervious to suggestion.
A human being as evilly disposed as that,
would be removed from. the care of his
parents or guardians and incarcerated in an
asylum, but there is no preventive legisla-
tion controlling ungovernable cars.
* * * *
“Bloggs”: London “Daily Mail” marvelled
recently because, in a lilm-star populaiity
competition “organised by leading newspapers
in the States,” Janet Gaynor and Charles
Farrell led “by many thousands of votes in
their respective divisions. What more
natural: There is no worse actress on the
screen than Janet, no rottener actor than
Charles. Analyse the people who get worked
up over beauty competitions, queen-ot-the-
harbor tourneys and street newspaper stunts
generally, and you will find that they are,
almost without exception, what the Labor
Daily” recently accused the toilers
Wales of being ; namely, morons. The Labor
Daily” generalisation was, of course, unjust.
There is an enormous section in every com-
munity composed of people who are virtually
mental defectives, but they are not all poor;
far from it. The one and only feature they
have in common is an illimitable capacity
for having their legs pulled, forming wrong
judgments —about actors and actresses • about,
stunt newspapers; about political pro-
grammes ; about political leaders like Honest
Jack Dang, the Workers’ Friend. They don t
do much good for themselves, but they are
a steady source of revenue to another sec-
tion —the one which is composed of puzzled,
fretful highbrows who keep turning out pon-
derous works with titles like, Why is
Democracy an Abject Failure
N: *
“Lex” • The impotence of the Bar Coun-
cil was exhibited again in connection with
ex-Attorney-General Lamaro’s attack on the
Hmh Court. A similar larrikin outburst
might well have got' a solicitor suspended
from practice, or a doctor kicked out ot
the B.M.A. The Bar Council took no
notice, though the Law Institute (the
solicitors’ organisation) passed a resolution
which virtually called Lamaro a liar, lhe
Bar Council has a number of rules designed
to keep the profession in good odor with
the public. A barrister must not advertise
himself by writing to the papers on legal
questions or supplying the press with photo-
graphs ; lie must not consult clients excepi
in the presence of an attorney; or press for
a conviction as prosecutor (the idea being
that he is a sort of assistant-Minister of
Justice) ; or string out suits for money, or
do a dozen other things that are done by
leaders of the Bar every term of the year.
It is the same in England. Ilewart (L.C.J.)
recently denounced a speech by counsel at
the Central Criminal Court as ‘ unworthy
of a member of the English Bar,” but the
local Bar Council, after consideration, took
no action. It wasn’t in a position to take
action, as a matter of practical politics, and
the same applies here.
rjc *
“C.Q.”: Joy-riding is not peculiar to the
motor age, despite popular opinion to the
contrary. In Melbourne “Herald” of 188-
appeared the following item :
The practice of illegally using horses, cabs and
waggonettes is becoming a daily occurrence. A cab-
man dare not leave his vehicle to go into a house
to collect a fare for fear that some person imnpc
into his cab and drives away—just for the fun of it.
The notion of a sheik taking his bit of skirt
for an exciting dash in a growler seems conne
these days, but a fiver, equal to at least £l-
- present currency, was the usual penalty.
* * * *
“Strict Veg”: Local nudists should be
interested in the trouble these Doukhobors
(B. 11/5/’32) arc giving the authorities in
British Columbia. The recent unclothed
parade is by no means the first of these
demonstrations. A body of Doukhobors horri-
fied citizens a couple of years ago by stripping
on a railway station as a protest against
being refused free passes. They are perfectly
peaceable people if left to their own devices
in their own settlements, but all the efforts
of the authorities to date have failed to
prevent them employing the no-clothes argu-
ment when asked to pay a dog license.
Itching-pow T der devices will probably only
gratify their taste for martyrdom. The B.C.
Attorney-Gen eral is now asking for legisla-
tion prescribing three years’ imprisonment
for the favorite form of Doukhobor argument.
... jtj * J'i
“Gad” moves south :
For more than two months I have been a resident
dole-drawer in a N. S. Wales South Coast town.
Which is to say that in place of a track card I
now have another sort, showing that I am registered
as No. 4443 at the labor exchange in the So-
and-so electorate, and would probably be called up
for work if such a thing ever came hack to these
parts again. By virtue of this card I am entitled
to draw 15 shillings’ worth of rations every fort-
night. . . ...
I live in an empty house, by permission of the
landlord, discharging in return the duties of honorary
caretaker. I sleep on the floor. I eat standing up
against a shelf in the kitchen. I calculate the
time by the sun, and the days of the week by
a church bell—so I know for certain when it is
Sunday. I sometimes wonder what Mr. Lang has
in mind when he speaks of “the gypsy standard.
Those Argentine gypsy friends of his must be in a
very bad way, indeed.
Most of the inhabitants in this town are on the
dole. Many of them are immigrant miners from
England whose last job ended two years ago. They
are ready to admit, individually, hut not collec-
tively, that their union bosses piled on the last
straw which broke the unfortunate camel’s back. I
think they realise also that Mr. Badly is not
spending many sleepless nights on their behalf, and
that their jobs in the mines are gone for ever.
Most of us have left off worrying much about
anything; still we are rather doubtful whether
Lang is right. Personally, I know that mv five bob
a week in Queensland went further than my is. 6d.
a week does down here.
THE SPIDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the Gardens she sits on a seat by the side
of the way, , . . .
Against the green background a vision of
elegant frocking, , , ,
With a little leashed lapdog, a book and a
luring display
Of neat shoe and trim stocking.
Then when her dog barks as you pass she
says: “Fido, behave!”
And she tells you that he is quite harm-
' less and never will bite you,
In well-balanced sentences, quite sympathetic
and grave, , . . ,
And eyes that so brilliantly shine you teel
they invite you , ,
To pat the wee dog on the head and ask ot
its virtues and vices,
Till she takes it up into her arms and
calls it her “darling,” her only.
When you don’t care a damn if you ve heard
that’s one way maid entices
Man from the pathway that’s holy and
righteous, but lonely. , , ,
And you ask her the name of her book, and
you talk, and she murmurs: * How
clever! ,?
And she tells you that she has no brains
but she knows you are wise.
And she holds Fido up to her face and
clutches him tighter than ever,
With the friendliest look in the world m
her uplooking eyes.
So you turn from the book and yourself, and
talk of the flowers and the sun,
Till she asks: “Won’t you sit?” which you
do, with vour heart moving faster,
And you start on a trip that may well leave
behind when its done,
A memory of pleasure, or interest, or just
plain disaster.
In the Gardens she waits on a seat by the
side of the way, . . „
Against the green background a vision ot
elegant frocking,
With a little leashed lapdog, a book and a
luring display
Of neat shoe and trim stocking.
VICTORIA.
ALAN D. MICKLE.


“Ivavagura”: One of the amenities of
Papuan life these days is the “Papuan Vil-
lager,” a journal compiled by natives for
natives, with the more or less judicious guid-
THE BONDS OF MATRIMONY.
“What is meant exactly by ‘the state of marriage,’ Dad?”
“Well, I suppose one could define it as that tied feeling.”
ance of the white Government tauhada. It
is printed in English, and is a striking ex-
ample of how the old “Pidgin English” and
“Police Motu” of 30 years or so ago has been
supplanted—a thing for which wise old
William Macgregor strove. An extract from
the contribution of a district correspondent
breathes the very spirit of the Proverbs of
Solomon. He writes: “Plenty of marriages'
have taken place in the district, in which some
took second wives, by which the first wives
are angry and fight the second. It is a silly
thing to do; the man only makes more
trouble for himself or gets more worried.”
Too true! Ask any Judge in Divorce.
V ❖ 'l* «Jc
“Chev”: As Empire Day drew near, the
Union Jack began to appear in Melbourne
on motor-car windscreens. One feminine
patriot had a dinky little specimen in silk
flying from her radiator-cap. On approach-
ing one of the city’s busiest intersections
she was somewhat surprised when the traffic
crp held up all traffic and deferentially sig-
nalled her to proceed. She had got only
half-way across, however, when the police-
man realised his mistake. He stopped the
vehicle, removed the flag and handed it to
the owner, remarking politely, “I thought
you was a vice-regal, Madam. Only vice-
regals are allowed to fly Unions.”
* * * *
“F.S.”: A Vic. Rhodes scholar, A. Garran,
speaking to a Melbourne audience, declared
that “Rhodes scholars have achieved the suc-
cess in public life that Rhodes aimed at.”
When Rhodes met Stead in 1889 he was not
thinking of assisting ambitious young Mel-
burnians to become prosperous professional
men. “What do you think?” Stead asked.
“Should we not join the American Republic,
the whole of the British Empire being re-
organised on the basis of the American Con-
stitution?” “How our ideas grow!” cried
his fellow-visionary. “Our two minds are
moving exactly alike. I understand you mean
to say that if you secured the union of the
English-speaking peoples you would be will-
ing to be annexed to the American Republic.
So would I! Yes, yes, you are quite right.”
It is true that the cold blasts of reality
later compelled Rhodes to qualify his dream,
but he and his journalistic confrere got as
far as drawing up the plan of a secret
society to run the British Empire provi-
sionally, the Americo-Britjsh Republic later,
and finally the Confederation of the Earth.
Rhodes was to be, General of the society.
Stead his successor and Rothschild a possible
successor to Stead. A college was to be
established to train young men in the ideal
of an English-speaking hegemony of the
world. All but the scholarship part of
the scheme was shelved, owing partly to
Rhodes’s habit of recovering quickly from
his emotional excesses and partly to Stead’s
opposition to the war in South Africa.
* ❖ * *
“F.M.” : Forged finger-prints (B. 18/5/’32 i
may be new in the law courts, but Austin
Freeman in his “Dr. Thorndyke” detective
stories mentions them several times. In the
“Red Thumb Mark” he gives a detailed de-
scription of the modus operandi of faking
finger-prints, and the prisoner whom Dr.
Thorndyke defends is acquitted, a thumb-
print identical with that of the prisoner being
proved a forgery.
❖ $ #
“Clarence Cafeteria”: That was a grace-
ful idea of the Governor-General to present
the wig he wore for so many years above
the High Court bench to Speaker Mackay;
and it might be extended. Mr. Lang might
present to his successor the trousers he wore
during the late Golden Age of N.S.W. poli-
tics. Tucks could be taken in the legs when
the stature of a Premier falls below normal,
and a very tall Premier could have frills
sewn round the bottoms. Parliamentarians
are whales for ceremonial insignia, which
give them an appearance of dignity which is
not always obvious in their speeches. When
the mace was stolen from Melbourne,
members searched for it with all the frenzy
of a man who has gone nude-bathing only
to discover that somebody has pinched his
clothing. This regard for toys is common
to persons before they reach the age of
discretion, a period which is apt to be in-
definitely postponed in the case of politicians.
❖ * ❖ *
“Ivnockem Down” : More sheep are sold in
Australia than in any other country in the
world, and more are sold at New-
market yards (Vic.) than anywhere else in
Australasia. No fewer than 60 auctioneers
(each of whom pays an annual license fee
of £25) can be seen and heard on any day
at Newmarket. The daddy of the crowd is
Harry Peck, with his white-grey beard and
wide-brimmed bat. A son of one of Mel-
bourne’s first auctioneers, he has wielded the
hammer for over 50 years at Newmarket, and
is still acknowledged the greatest stock sales-
man in Victoria, with an unerring judgment
of values. Another of the old school is Bill
McLean, dour, unflurried, and with a gift for
turning interjections to account by biting-
rejoinders. Jack Ballantyne, another of the
old brigade, has never been able to desist
from bobbing up and down on the fence
when knocking ’em down, hence his sob-
riquet of “Jack in the Box.” Then there are
Jack Hall, who dresses immaculately and
plays bowls on Saturdays; “Mo” McNamara,
one of the keenest sheep judges in the coun-
try ; Hector McKenzie, the silver-tongued
store-sheep expert; Ted Lynott. the cham-
pion pedigreed-cattle salesman, who swims as
well as he sells; Stan Sanders and Alex.
Biggar, brilliant all-rounders, in build
as _ well as in performances ; Gordon Fair-
bairn, the calf and cow specialist and
drover’s friend ; Dick Oolclough, who always
says what he thinks; and Wally Cameron,
the ex-football crack, tallest of a lot of tall
men. And there are notables among the
young men: Eddie Moylan, George Clarke,
Ernie Donovan, Bert Clyne, Jack Cordner,
Harold Cornish and Clyde Kirk.
* * * *
“Cheviot”: Someone has discovered that
Berwick-on-Tweed is in a fair wav to rival
the parties to the Hundred Years’ War. When
Queen Victoria declared war on Russia
in 1854 she acted for Great Britain and
Ireland arid Berwick-on-Tweed, the border
city having been declared an independent
principally in the days of Richard I. When
peace was signed in Paris in 1856, the name
of Berwick was somehow omitted from the
treaty, so the war is still on, as far as she
is concerned. No one seems to know quite
what to do about it, though it is suggested
that the Russian Soviet, with the complica-
tions in Manchuria on its hands, would be
well advised to square things with Berwick
before it is too late.
* * * *
“Badili”: As a character in “Green Car-
nation” said when his tailor quoted a Latin
proverb, “The spread of civilisation is becom-
ing alarming.” Following on the mutiny of
HIGH FINANCE.
MISSUS: “I was just looking to see if you could change a pound note”
HUSBAND ( suspiciously ): “Where’s the quid?”
MISSUS: “You haven’t given it to me yet, dear.”
convicts at Dartmoor comes the uews of a
similar rising in the native gaol at Port
Moresby. The dusky savages seized their
opportunity and attacked tlieir warders with
whatever weapon came to hand, just as did
their white exemplars on the Devonshire
moor. But no serious injury seems to have
been done to anyone, and the incident closed
with the handing out of extra clink to the
intransigents, the leader, Lopi Mairi, of
Mekeo, getting a special allotment of one
year. Let Lopi Mairi be remembered as a
pioneer among his people. He is the first
Papuan on record to record dissatisfaction
with that homo-from-home a native gaol.
“White Pile”: Stories of cock-
fighting in secluded suburbs are
appearing in Sydney papers. How
it is managed these hard times
makes one wonder, since a cock
has to be as fit as a boxer, and
that means good food. The train-
ing menu in the good old days of
the game consisted of eggs, sugar-
candy water, hot bread and milk,
barley, rye, butter and rhubarb;
in addition, each pen had to be
supplied with a freshly-cut sod every
day, as well as a carefully-washed
spadeful of gravel taken from an
adjacent river-bed. That was the
regime for the birds owned by a
famous Cheshire cocker Dr. Bel-
lyse, who bred a thousand chickens yearly,
of which some 200 might be adjudged fit to
take their places in the pit.
“Bumpkin”: A small boy at Yambuk
(Vic.) has been in direct communication
with Uncle Sam’s Navy De-
partment. In 1930 lie found
a bottle on the beach which
contained a message request-
ing the finder to return the
missive to New York. The
urchin is now the proud pos-
sessor of a large-scale map
of the world, a present from
Uncle, showing the voyage
the bottle probably made m
following the ocean currents.
“Runa”: Here is a case
that should interest the
criminologists or the psycho-
analysts. Grandma was a
locally-famous kleptomaniac.
For years the family had an
understanding with the re-
tailers, who used to keep an
eye on the old lady and make
out a list of the goods she
collected and didn’t pay for.
Friends und acquaintances,
aware of her failing, remov-
ed their valuables when they
expected a call. It was
thought that Grandma’s sins
were buried with her, but
now, 10 years after her
death, the family are watch-
ing fearfully the develop-
ment of a nine-year-old
grand-daughter on precisely
the same lines. The young-
ster, normal in other. re-
spects, has to be searched
after each outing, ' and
already reveals astounding
cunning and dexterity in
getting possession of the
trifles she selects. Precept
and punishment have no
effect, the child having an
uncontrollable urge to pilfer, though most of
the things she takes could have neither in-
terest nor value for her. And, like the true
kleptomaniac, she reveals neither resent-
ment nor shame when stripped of her spoils.
“Firelock” : The objection that fast shoot-
ing means extra expenditure of ammunition
(B. 11/5/’32) is a very ancient one. The
Duke of Wellingtou strongly deprecated the
replacement of the flintlock Brown Bess with
the percussion-cap variety on this very
ground. Later authorities damned the
Enfield and Minie rifles because the bullet
went down the barrel more easily than in
the case of the older weapons. The introduc-
tion of the breech-loading Snider and Martini
met with the same opposition, and the maga-
zine rifle was hailed as an invention of the
Devil. Somehow or other, ammunition supply
has managed to keep up with the demand
fairly well, though it was often a serious pro-
blem in the Great War. The aeroplane was
used with good effect in the later stages to
keep ammunition up to front-line troops, and
probably this or some system of heavily-
armored tanks may help to solve the problem
at the next, turn-up.
“Sheffield Poodle” : The “Christian Science
Monitor” suggests that the tiny flat with
the kitchenette has evolved the microscopic
dog, so popular with flat-dwellers to-day, by
a sort of natural selection. There is some-
thing in the theory. Where are the big beef-
eating dogs of yesteryear? In a few places
where there is room for a big dog to move,
and cash to furnish his weekly table, some
may be found; but the craze for the Alsatian
is dying, as the craze for the Great Dane and
the St. Bernard died long ago. and for the
same reason. The urban world is getting
NOT EVEN WITH AN ANAESTHETIC.
“But surely you can get a car of some sort out of
one of your wealthy patients?”
“My dear, surgery has made great advances, but it has
its limits.”
too crowded for big dogs. Even in the country
the same story is told. The small kelpie and
his cousin the barb keep the paddocks where
once the lordly collie gloried and worked
sheep.
BALLADE OF A COLD IN THE HEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An autumn ballade is presumably due,
But rhapsody’s off —for I snuffle and sneeze
And curse in an atmosphere tainted with eu-
calyptus, and burn, though I’ll presently
freeze.
A noise like the buzzing of thousands of
bees
Resounds in my ears as I toss on the bed.
The mainsprings have vanished from both of
my knees:
I’ve fairly been caught with a cold in the
head.
To him in the clutch of incipient ’flu,
With its microbes as eager and agile as
fleas,
The outlook appears most infernally blue
As he thinks of his sins’ inescapable fees
That are charged up to all for such matters
as these—
-1 Under every heading from A down to Z.
Joviality’s friendless at hundreds to threes
When a cove’s fairly copped with a cold
in the head.
Yet sweet as the diamond’s ray to the .Tew
The thought that the doctor this imp will
appease,
And that then I may swallow my favorite
brew,
And at Randwick find fortune in picking
the gees.
In the meantime, there’s little do to but to
wheeze
And croak like an old atrabilious gled,
And ponder the weird the unfortunate drees
Who’s fairly sewed up with a cold in the
head.
Envoy.
Prince, not for this wight the Elysian leas
At judgment for all I have done and have
said.
No, Hades, plain Hades, I’ll have, if you
please!
No danger in Hell of a cold in the head.
N.S.W.
J. B. H.


WINTER 1932 HU
INSTANT STARTING
INSTANT ACCELERATION
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Ex-Premier Hogan established one pre-
cedent. He resigned by wireless telephone.
The call from London was booked at 3 p.m.,
but unsympathetic atmospherics delayed the
connection till 7 p.m,
John Newlands, former president of the
Senate, w T ho died at Glenelg (S.A.) last
week, was probably the only ex-sleeping-car
conductor who ever reached a knighthood
(he was with the Terowie-Broken Hill
express all through the days of the silver
boom). It was largely the railwaymens
vote and influence that got him into the
S.A. Parliament, where he stayed for six
years before he reached the Senate. I here,
later on, he was a capable President, dis-
playing those same qualities of courtesy ancl
tact which had led to his selection as a car-
attendant many years previously.
Argyle is the second med. to be Premier
of Vic. William Clark Haines, head of the
No. 1 and No. 3 Cabinets (between 1800
and 1S58) was the first. N. S. Wales never
had even a first.
Memories of Dame Nellie Melba came back
when a cable told us that her one-time hus-
band, Charlie Armstrong, had been injured
near Vancouver by a “panther presumab y
the American puma or cougar. An irisii-
man, he came to Australia many years ago,
and after his marriage with Nellie Mitchell, as
Melba then was, managed a sugar plantation
near Mackay (N.Q.). A splendid all-round
athlete, he excelled in horsemanship and
shooting and also in fencing then very little
known and practised in Australia. The pair
parted in the early ’nineties; since then
Armstrong, wlio is now 74, lias spent most
of his time in Canada, where he is a ranch-
owner.
E. A. Atherton, Queensland Minister tor
Mines and candidate for the Tablelands, is a
sou of the John Atherton who first found tin
on the tableland now called after him. Old
John” was a son of Edmund; Edmund had
seven children, John had eight, and most of
the others had a good tableful. Edmund,
who had at first settled at Annulate
(N.S.W.), trekked north with his family m
IB6o—they took one horse- and three bullock-
teams, with riding and packhorses and
shorthorns, and were four months on the
road. Later oh John, E.A. s father, took
up the country where Mareeba now is, and
Queensland Mines Minister ATHERTON.
formed Emerald End station, where the
family was born. E.A. was brought up in
the North and educated there, and nobody
knows it better. He went into public lire
through the local shire council, and is one
of Queensland’s authorities on sugar.
That mighty family of brawn and broad
acres the Fairbairns will have J.V. as its
representative in the next Vic. Parliament.
He is a nephew of Knight G. b airbairn, a
former Agent-General, was a noted ace oj.
the Iloyal Flying Force, and brought down
several enemy machines before lie crashed
behind the German lines. Severely wounded
he spent 14 months as a prisoner of war
before he was repatriated through Holland.
Fairbairn defeated Minister of Lands
Bailey for the Warrnambool district, where
his sheep and cows do their grazing.
On the very morning of the Vic. general
election for the Assembly came word that
Fdmond John Hogan, the Premier, had paid
his respects to George V. at Buckingham
Palace-getting in evidently while he was
somebody. Still he didn’t hang on; he wired
his Ministry’s resignation to Acting-
Governor Irvine as soon as he had got official
news of the poll.
If Dr. Arthur had lasted another 12 hours
he might have known the name of his suc-
cessor in the Mosman (Sydney) seat. But
he would have been disappointed; among
the dozen nominees his choice was Adrian
Curlewis, lawyer son of the Judge. On his
Dr. RICHARD ARTHUR.
deathbed the little doctor helped the young
man with the speech with which he sought
the nomination of the local league. But
Brig.-Gen. Lloyd topped the poll.
In Parliament they all were very fond of
Dr. Arthur, but they all loved to pull his
leg. It was after he, as Minister for Health,
had inaugurated his “Drink More Milk
campaign in Martin-place, where the juice
-was retailed at a penny a paper cup, that a
colleague came upon him gloating over the
scene. Arthur expressed his gladness. Yes,
a great sight. It makes one feel thirsty!
said his friend. “Come and have a whisky.
Allandale, outside Ballarat, has an Aus-
tralian record —it has had the one Assembly
member for 43 years. That one man, Alec
Peacock, holds an Australian record, too.
He had been in 14 Governments before he
went to the more comfortable Speaker s
chair five years ago. He will go back to it
now unopposed.
When T. S. Clibborn died, a few years
before the war, the late Charles Cropper was
the obvious man to succeed him as secretary
of the A.J.C. It is a social as well as a
business job, and Croppers have been JN. ► •
Wales pastoralists for over a century and
members of the Union Club since, it staited.
Mr Cropper was cheerier and more
approachable than the somewhat dour Irish-
man whose work he carried on so success-
fully He had been educated in Sydney, had
spent most of his life there, and knew and
had a pleasant word for everybody, high and
low, in the local racing world. He was a
surveyor by profession, and bad been a nrst-
class horseman and tennis-player in his youth.
He never married. He was 72 when the eno
came after a few days’ illness.
An unusual Labor candidate is Alex. Card
ner who is standing for Mirani (Q.). Born
in the Scottish manufacturing town of Pais-
lev he got his schooling there, subsequently
entering one of the Scottish banks, and later
o-oing to France. There, when Avar broke out
in 1914, he enlisted in the Foreign Legion,
but later transferred to the Scottish Horse,
a yeomanry regiment. With this he saw
service at Suvla Bay. and was;, one of the
200 men selected to go under Lawrence to
Arabia. Queensland saw him in 1920, and
after a spell of droving in the Nor -West he
settled down in the sugar country at. Ayr.
He is 37, and has been an A.W.U. official foi
seven years. .
Vinton Smith, who won the Oakleigh
(Vic.) seat for the U.A.P., is a young-and
energetic member of the Melbourne Stock
Exchange. He was an artilleryman m the
war, and his campaign secretary was a
fellow-officer in the 113th battery at the end
—Warwick Gregory, tlie cricketer was
another. In those days he was better known
as a horseman than a politician; as a jajung-
ster he rode with the Hunt CJjib in south
Aus., where he was born. Finance has been
both his business and his hobby during the
last few years, and his career m the House
should be worth watching.
1 Japanese official, who has been com-
missioned to tour Europe in the interests
of Nippon’s export trade, wanted a secre-
tary who could speak Japanese as well as
the language of every country he was to
travel through. His choice fell on It. Russo,
a graduate of Melbourne University. Russo
won the Mollison travelling scholarship in
Japanese in 1930.
Sid Kidman, the “Cattle King,” was To
the other day. He is still very active, but
leaves things mostly now to ‘the boys.
(“Things” include about 40 stations.) The
boys haven’t been brought up to be office
bnslimen. One of them took stores up to
Cooper’s - Creek lately and saw more pelicans
than he had thought there were in the world.
The birds have had a great nesting season.
H. S. Williams, Inspector of Aerodromes,
went on liis last flight from Cloncuriy
(N.Q.) recently—a victim of angina pectoris.
He died as he would have wished, practically
in the air. He was making one of his
periodical tours of inspection through
Queensland and the N.T. when the local
medico advised him to go into hospital tor
rest and overhaul. He had selected ana
designed Queensland's landing-grounds and
was a well-known and respected hgure
wherever Q.A.N.T.A.S. flies.
Sam McKay, of the Sunshine Harvester
works, is president of Vic. Chamber ot
Manufactures for 1932-33. James Mac-
Dougall, who makes way for McKay, was
president for five years the same as. the
late F. T. Derham (Swallow and Ariel! ).
Harold Luxton, who held the Caulfield
seat easily, is to get the knighthood he has
been yearning for in recognition ot his three
years’ meritorious service as Mayor of Melb.
(1928-31). The gaud will probably arrive
on King’s Birthday (June 3).
Colin A. Sinclair, of Glen Innes, the
U.C.P. candidate for the Namoi, is a bar-
rister as well as a grazier; in the long ago
he was with Minter, Simpson and Co., m
Sydney. For the past 20 years he has - been
on the executive* of the Graziers’ Associa-
tion and is largely responsible for its pre-
sent constitution. He used to race a good
deal on northern picnic courses, but two
years ago he did a Characteristic thing—
decided to cut out racing and spend the
money in giving tobacco-growing a lift.
The Rev. Clyde Leonard Carr, who has
represented Timaru in the M.L. Parliament
since 1928, is a Parliamentarian of a type
more prevalent in the Dominion than Aus-
tralia —a Nonconformist parson who takes
his politics as seriously as his religion. He
first came into public life while lie was
shepherding a suburban flock in Christ-
church, becoming a member of the City
Council in the Labor interest. Transferred
to the southern seaport, he challenged J. 1.
Rolleston, son of a former Superintendent
Rev. CLYDE CARR. M.U.R. (M.L.).
of the Province, for the Timaru seat on more
than one occasion, and at last succeeded.
A fluent speaker, Carr is more at home
addressing a friendly meeting than in debate
and he doesn’t give the “Hansard repoiteis
much work unless he has to take his tun
in a stonewall.
William Alister Fisher, Mt. Morgairs sur-
veyor from the first days of the co. till its
finish, has put his own family into mourn-
in" The Fishers were old Vic. squatters
who went north in the ’sixties and settled
at Pt Curtis. When William Alister
wasn’t doing his regular job he was mos.
likely helping some student of the Tech.-
the present Surveyor-General of Queensland
was one of scores who thu-s went through
his hands. His own only boy was killed on
Gallipoli.
Frank Moulden, lawyer and ex-Mayor of
Adelaide (who married the widow of VViu-
throp H'ackett, of Perth) left £37,000.
New French Consul-General DUSSAP.
Arnold Weinholt, who is trying to do
away witli party politics in Queensland, is
used to excitement and hard work. A
Queenslander by birtli, he has spent much
time in Africa big-game hunting. He was
mauled by a lion just before the war, and
after he had recovered he joined up with the
South African forces and did fine work as a
scout before he was captured. Weinholt wit.
again be the member for Fassifcrn in the
next Assembly, having been returned un-
opposed. He is on the land himself, and
knows the problems that beset the country
people. In the last year he has shown his
faith in Queensland by purchasing three
station properties in the Central District tor
nearly £50,000. His sincere manner and in-
cisivc speech have made him one of the
notabilities of the Assembly.
Curator of the Launceston (Tas.) City
Park, with its imposing Albert Hall and
miniature zoo, William McGowan, a Scot-
Australian of 73, recently crossed Bass
Strait to take a close look at the con-
servatory in the Fitzroy Gardens, which
cost £4OOO. The veteran master-gardener
has in hand a £lO,OOO bequest for park im-
provements in Tassy recently wished on the
city corporation by a wealthy garden-lover.
With that money McGowan may outdo the
Fitzroy conservatory, and build in Laun-
ceston one of Australia’s greatest liot-house
parks. The veteran joined the Launceston
City Corporation about 50 years ago and lias
well earned retirement, but he wants to
superintend this job, and is having his way.
Miss Margaret Jane Clayton, who has
died at Campbelltown (N.S.W.), aged 83,
was born at Gunning, where her father, Ben-
jamin Clayton, was a doctor. Her mother
was a daughter of Commissary-General
Broughton, who arrived with the First lUeet.
Broughton took up land-grants at Appm at
the request of Governor Macquarie, and
later was a Governor of Tasmania. After
leaving Gunning, Dr. Clayton settled at.
Appin—his property, Rockwood, was close
to General Broughton’s Lachlan Yale and
Macquarie Dale. Miss Clayton, who lived
for many years at Rockwood, was a pillar
of every philanthropic movement in her
neighborhood. Brothers and sister surviv-
ing are: Kennedy Clayton, of Yass (86) ;
Bland Clayton, of Minto (84) ; and Ultima
Clayton, Campbelltown, who will be 80 m
August.
Tommy Walker, ex-Speakcr of Westralia.
took most things as they came; he dull)4
even make «rv bn-- -
as Attorney-General the day aftei he had
been admitted to the Bar.
Slater, Webber, Pollard and Bailey, the
four Hogan Ministers defeated at the Vic*
o-eneral election, were ex-soldiers. Bailey
served in S’Africa at the end of last cen-
tury; the other three lent a hand in the
Great Scrimmage. Slater is a lawyer (an
ex-president of the Law Institute) ; Pollard
has his farm near Woodend; Bailey was a
law clerk; and Webber made politics a full-
time job.
Frederick Warwick, whose death has
occurred at Duntroon, was part of the early
history of Canberra. He used to be in
charge of the post office on the Y ass-road,
a familiar landmark to the old. hands if
was close to where the Hotel Ainslie now
stands. He was christened, confirmed ami
married in the Church of St John the
Baptist, which has liust celebrated its 31st
anniversary.


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the most significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.’’
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is payable in monthly instal-
ments during the balance of a period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid also to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital . . . . . . . . , £241 341
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . . . . . . . . £3,500,000
Total Reserves approximately . . . . . . . . _ £9OO 000
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and *
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately . . £500,000
Area Planted Approx. 130,000 Acres
Bankers; Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong and San Francisco.
Here’s the Belt for
Difficult Drives
Chromol Leather Belting will soon
tame that troublesome drive in
your plant. It has no equal for
long and dependable service under
constant shock loads; it is
weatherproof, steamproof and does
not slip. Let us show you how
to get more efficient transmission
for every type of drive with
CHROMOL
THE SUPER DRIVING BELT.
Manufactured and guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LIMITED,
117 York Street, Sydney; and
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
Dividends Writ- To
Mar., Profits. (9-J p.c.). ten Oil'. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1921.. 336,610 190,000 20,000 126,610 1,376,625
Bank of Queensland purchased.
Premiums on new shares, £163,164. . 1,539,789
(10 p.c.)
1922.. 350,168 203,050 25,000 122,118 1,661,907
Premiums on new shares, £14,739. . 1,676,646
1923.. 442,178 272,500 40,000 129,678 1,806,324
Premiums on new shares, £191,823.. 1,998,147
1924.. 498,168 307,973 40,000 150,195 2,148,342
Premiums on new shares, £167,529.. 2,315,871
1925.. 538,833 400,000 40,000 98,833 2,414,704
1926.. 568,254 400,000 50,000 118,254 2,532,958
1927.. 581,645 400,000 70,000 111,645 2,644,603
Premiums on new shares, £411,577.. 3,056,180
1928.. 640,401 498,086 50,000 92,315 3,148,495
1929. . 659,278 500,000 50,000 109,278 3,257,773
1930.. 655,134 500,000 50,000 105,134 3,362,907
(84 p.c.).
1931.. 561,206 425,000 50,000 86,206 3,449,113
(6 p.c.)
1932.. 276,838 300,000 3,425,951
Exchange adjustment, etc., £300,000.. 3,125,951
Last year there was a contraction of
£2,522,643 in advances and a growth of
£1,312,986 in deposits. Money was wanted
to finance the various Governments—in
other words, to make good their deficits —
and enable them to carry on their social and
other services; and it could only be got by
reducing advances and/or getting in more
deposits. Circumstances favored both move-
ments ; and the funds that became available
and more were invested in 4 p.c. Common-
wealth Treasury bills (£3,900,000 at March
31). The movements reflect the decline in
business generally, the lack of employment
for capital and the drift in the public
finances.
It all means lighter earnings for the banks
as well as others. Interest on fixed deposits
has been lowered to relieve the pressure
there, but old deposits continue to maturity
at the old rates ; hence the prompt cut, of 1 'p.c.
(more in some cases) in the charge for
advances bit into earnings, and so did the
cut in the return from Government securities.
Turnover in the exchange market was lighter,
and the drop of £5 per cent, in the rate on
London meant some loss on funds there;
it was the other way around, of course,
when the rate was rushed up to £l3O in the
previous term. Of the visible lay-by £300,000
has been earmarked to provide against
possible losses from “exchange adjustment.”
Any portion of the amount not required for
that purpose is to be used to further
strengthen inner reserves.
After providing for contingencies—and the
need was very large while the Lang Gov'ern-
ment existed in N. S. Wales—the slip in the
year’s gross earnings was £370,767: —
•Gross
Capital. Reserves. Profits. Expenses.
1921.. £2,000,000 £1,376,625 £862,102 £525 491
1923.. 2,725,000 1,806,324 1,114,392 672,214
1925. . 4,000,000 2,414,704 1,321.419 782,587
1927.. 4,000,000 2,644,603 1,444,329 862,684
1928.. 5,000,000 3,148,495 1,548,480 908,079
1929.. 5,000,000 3,257,773 1,602,091 942,813
1930.. 5,000,000 3,362,907 1,624,924 969,790
1931.. 5,000,000 3,449,113 1,596,756 1,035,550
1932.. 5,000,000 3,425,951 1,225,989 949,151
inc ! lldin S £185,322 for taxation, were
£86,399 lighter, leaving the net result at
p.c. on capital as against 11.2, 13.1, 13.2
12.8 and 14.5 p.c. back to 1927. Still, 6 p.c.
was distributed, as against 81 p.c. for the
previous term and a steady 10 p.c. for the
nine years before that. Share premiums,
hoivever, make 6 p.c. worth only p.c. on
three-fifths of the capital. On capital as it
now stands, 6 p.c. would call for 3.7 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined).
Balance-sheet figures disclose a sound
financial structure :—-
„ . 19 20. 1931. 1932.
2°t es • • • • £49,809 £47,827 £47,708
Bills, etc. . . 962,908 238,062 264,891
Free deposits . . 11,926,167 10,064,536 11,477,025
Fixed deposits . . 11,472,035 23,241,541 23,142,038
Liquid assets . . 13,194,160 9,937,675 13,748,702
Advances . . 13,903,139 31,671,405 29,148,762
Premises etc. . . 643,636 1,418,757 1,369,724
The sworn quarterly averages show that the
growth in deposits was mainly in respect of
the Victorian and Queensland sections of
the business at the expense of N. S. Wales.
When the boobs closed, depositors and others
could see 39.3 p.c. of their money in liquids
(though the liquidity of some liquids is not
what it used to be), as against 25.9 p.c. at
the. previous balance. Also the bank was
holding only £4 ss. lid. of the public’s
money for every pound of its own. It is
a strong position, but it means only mod-
erate earning power.
The market prices the £lO fully-paids at
£ll 45., and the £8 shares paid to £5 at
£5 12s. 6d. The return in each case is 5.3
p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The visible back-
ing ls 325. ne t tangibles per pound
or paid capital.
Country Producers’ Selling Co. (Sydney)
Bonus
. to Con- Written Re-
March, Profit. Dividend. signors. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1922.. 4,237 10 p.c. = 2500 4,307 500 14,541
1923.. 10,872 10 „ „ 2500 6,880 16,033
1924.. 12,171 10 „ „ 3750 7,434 17,020
Profit from sale of assets, £8742.. 25,762
Building depreciation reserve taken
in, £6OOO .. .. . . . . 31 762
1925.. 10,983 10 p.c. = 3750 6,972 32,023
• J 6 >£ 87 10 ~ „ 6823 7,864 33,723
1927. . 21,738 10 ~ ~ 7500 10,578 37,383
1928.. 22,404 10 ~ .. 7500 11,251 - 41 036
. 24,146 10 .. „ 9981 10,548 44,653
10ll 0 " 7 ’ 489 7 ” •• 7000 Nil 45,142
inlo" 10 Jl 98 7 ’• " 7000 1> 233 ~ 17.507
1“32. . 7,766 5 „ „ 5000 1,056 49,217
Shareholders averaged 5.8 p.c. for the first
oi For the next eight (to March
01, 1.J29) they got a steady 10 p.c., and
o'ionts, who are mostly shareholders, received
£05,804 in rebates and £27,042, or more
than one-fifth of the aggregate net earnings,
remained in the business. Since then the
collapse of prices, growth of taxation and
need to provide largely for contingencies
have bitten deeply into earnings. Still, divs.
have continued to flow, and bonuses to con-
signors, which were interrupted in 1930, have
been resumed, both on a lower scale.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, 1529 fewer bales were put
under the hammer. That was because the
co started the previous term with 20,071
/o/wU-?? tlle tore; last year’s receipts
(80,031) were 12,870 better. The average
per bale for the 10 months to the end of
April was £ll 4s. 2d. (Australian) as
against £ll 2s. lOd. for the preceding season.
Also, more livestock was handled at fairly
steady but low prices
Wool Gross
__ (bales). Sheep. Cattle. .Earnings.
1920 . . 35,998 287,138 12,314 £49,158
• • 38,164 118,343 21,415 51,042
1927 . . 80.157 334,162 20,035 83 969
1929 . . 82,562 286,196 15,165 91,392
1930 . . 88,707 392,371 14,632 73 581
1931 . . 87,232 389,065 14,286 70 132
1932 . . 85,703 391,183 15,466 65,451
Thus, after providing for bad and doubtful
debts, etc., gross earnings slipped £4681.
Management charges (£54,186) were £2348
lighter; but an extra £5OO was set aside for
taxation (£3500). After refunding 10 p.c.
of the wool commissions there was enough
to show 7.6 p.c. on capital as against 9.5,
7.4, 13.6 and 14.8 p.c. back to 1928, when
wool averaged £25 4s. 9d. per bale. So a
couple of points were knocked off the div
reducing it to 5 p.c.
At the close of accounts in 1930 the co.
was leaning heavily on outsiders in order to
assist clients. But as the wool was sold
the position improved :
1923. 1928. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £25,142 £75,124 £100,124 £100,124
Mortgages . . 22,290 _
Other liabilities 15,117 79,317 63,791 91,935
Freeholds . . 52,305 103,240 146,523 146,523
Plant, shares in
other cos.,
etc- • • 5,566 7,505 10,210 15,652
Public sec’ties 3,000 —.
Debtors & cash 28,211 96,232 64,689 87,601
Last year’s heavier clip is reflected in a
growth of £18,219 in debtors’ balances
(£82,908) and the addition of £28,144 to
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
which includes provision for taxation. When
the books closed, liabilities exceeded the
more or less liquids by £4334, a swing of
£5232 during the twelvemonth.
The immediate outlook is for another good
clip, and with exchange and prices" as
they are, most growers can balance on the
right side of the ledger. The co.’s pound
shares are covered by net tangibles with a
book value of 29a 10d., nearly all in free-
hold, etc. The scrip is not listed.
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
, Dividends ~
Pref. To Re-
Feb., Profit.* 71 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£>£,£,
1927. .150,320 39,221 8 p.c. = 69,589 41,510 20,283
Nominal
Reserves
1928. 56,250 8 „ ~100,000 40,697 20,414
1929. .200,404 56,250 8 ~ ~100,000 44,154 64,568
1930. .187,049 56,250 7 „ „ 87,500 43,299107,867
1931.. 55,280 56,250 2 „ „ 25,000 81,897
Loss.
1932.. 16,907 Nil Nil 64,990
*After deducting debenture interest.
The co. bought the big business in 1926
for £2,900,000, paying partly in cash
and partly with a million 7 p.c. first-
mortgage debentures. The public snapped
up 750,000 p.c. cum prefs. and
1,250,000 ords. Goodwill, etc., figured at
£272,373, or less than 14 months’ profit at
the average rate of earning (£241,763 p.a.)
of the old business for its last three and a
half years. The properties were conserva-
tively valued, too. Those in Sydney were
taken over on the basis of 1920 figures, less
whatever had been written off since, while
the London premises were paid for on the
basis of a valuation made in 1912. In addi-
tion to these advantages the co. has a very
able management, with extensive connections
in the country, and it handles a large slice
of city trade.
After making all allowances considered
necessary, declared net earnings have moved
in this way
Net Debenture Available for .
Feb., Profit. Interest, etc. Shareholders.
1927.. £262,922 £112,602 £150,320
1928.. 267,714 70,767 196,947
1929.. 270,404 70,000 200,404
1930.. 257,049 70,000 187,049
1931.. 125,280 70,000 55,280
Loss.
1932.. 46,530 63,437 16,907
Thus encouraging progress was made until
exchange, tariff adjustments and taxation
made it impossible to get overhead back in
proportion to the fall in turnover. Though
the business held well, comparatively speaking,
there was a sharp drop of £78,750 in last
year’s profit. But that was after taking stocks
into the sheet at £150,533 below the 1931
figure, which may mean that lines slow to
move have been replaced by more readily
saleable goods. The £46,530 netted was
£16,907 short of the debenture interest, so
both prefs. and ords. were passed by.
To what extent the debentures are likely
to continue to stand in the way of divs. it
is difficult to say at the moment. Allowing
for statutory cuts, the debenture interest,
pref. div. and 4 p.c. on the ords. would to-
gether call for 4.8 p.c. on total funds at
Feb. 24 (“total funds” here means debenture
and share capital and reserves combined).
Though they lack strength, merchandise
prices generally are firmer; hence stocks
promise to be less troublesome. As for trad-
ing conditions, much will depend upon the
result of next month’s elections.
Financially, the co. is ready to take prompt
advantage of any improvement in conditions :
] 927. 1931. 1932
Ord. capital .. £1,246,250 £1,25’0,000 £1,250,000
Pref. capital .. 750,000 750,000 750,000
7 p.c. debentures 1,000,000 1,000,000* 1,000,000*
Sundry creditors 249,210 138,430 112,808
Freeholds, lease-
holds, plant,
goodwill, etc. 1,750,237 1,749,262 1,742,126
Stocks . . . . 1,130,878 824,997 674,464
Book debts, cash,
etc 441,777 674,193* 761,207*
*lncludes £lOO,OOO of debentures held by
trustees on behalf of the co.
Thus, as stocks have been worked down, the
amount coming to trade creditors has been
reduced and liquids strengthened. Though
the book value of stocks was reduced by
£150,533 last year, only £25,622 was wiped
off the trade debt; £87,014 was added to
debtors’ balances, cash, etc. Over half this
composite item consisted of Government
securities a couple of years ago.
Allowing for the statutory cut (22J p.c.),
the prefs. return 8.6 p.c. at 13s. 6d. ~ There
will be over £94,000 coming to them at the
close of next accounts. At 9s. sd. the ords.
would return 8.4 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis.
Including intangibles, the net asset backing
is 555., prefs.; 215., ords.
Nicholson and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re. Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 21,161 10 p.c. = 19,225 1936 7,716
1923.. 21>357 10 „ „ 19,244 2013 9,829
1924.. 23,811 10 19,282 4529 14,358
1925.. 25,062 10 „ „ 19,282 5880 20,138
1926.. 26,141 10 „ „ 21,123 5018 25,156
1927.. 25,117 10 „ „ 21,912 3205 28,361
1928.. 21,633 9 „ „ 19,720 1913 30,274
1929.. 16,149 7 „ „ 15,338 811 31,085
1930.. 7,746 24 „ „ 5,478 2268 33,353
Provision for bad debts, £15,000. . 18,353
Loss.
1931.. 4,881 Nil 13,472
1932.. 1,034 Nil, 12,438
Considering the nature of the business —-
the co. deals in musical instruments, etc.,
largely on a t.-p. basis —last year’s loss of
£1034 was not so discouraging as might have
been expected. Dealers in these lines began
to feel the pinch early. As the scattering
of loan funds ceased, competition sharpened;
later the market was flooded with second-
hand instruments, the debts problem became
perplexing, while forced sales by small im-
porters, the rise in popularity of wireless
and the N. S. Wales moratorium aggravated
the troubles.
Thus the co.’s gross earnings fell from
£113,297 four years ago to £34,920 for the
12 months covered by the latest accounts,
when the slip was no more than £4Oll.
After providing for taxation, etc., exesi
(£35,954) were £7858 lighter; so there was
an improvement, of £3847 compared with
the previous year’s result. Much, of course,
depends upon whether debtors’ balances turn
out to be worth their book value. A year
ago £15,000 of reserves was specially set
aside against possible losses on hire-purchase
agreements; this and another bad debts
reserve of £5OO remained intact at March 31.
Before the close of accounts in 1930 the
co. sold its Pitt-street freehold and bought
another in George-street. The profit on the
deal was £75,689, which was struck off the
book value of the new premises. Whatever
money became available from this and other
sources has been used to reduce the outside
debt, which is still substantial:—
n , Mar.,’2s. Mar.,’29. Mar.,’3l. Mar.,’32.
Paid capital.. £192,820 £219,114 £219,114 £219,114
Mortgage .. 28,500 99,500 89,500 84,500
Overdraft .. 43,499 73,298 58,145 44,797
Other liabilities 152,548 117,660 29,369 24,863
Stocks, hire
a g r eements,
book debts 325,518 312,458 223,942 203,246
Plant,, etc. .. 5,056 1,888 1,068 926
Freeholds . . 94,199 219,017 186,810 183,726
Sundry assets 22,873 14,367 13,281 13,314
Last year stocks and hire agreements—an
untidy entry—were worked down £20,696 and
i£)00 was clipped off the mortgage, £13,348
off the overdraft and £4506 off the amount
coming to .sundry creditors. The more or
less liquid surplus (£50,125, excluding shares
in other cos.) was £2191 stronger than at
the pevious balance. The co.’s interest in
the Concord Piano Co., in at £12,272, makes
it more or less independent of the imported
article.
The market prices the fully-paids around
os. as against 225. 9d. three years ago. Each
pound of paid capital is covered by net
tangibles, with a book value of 21s. 2d.
Robur Tea Co., Ltd. (Melbourne)
, Dividends.
.Net Pref. Re-
Mar., Profit. 74 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1929 25,211 9375 84 p.c. = 10,625 5211 61,874
1930 14,436 9375 Nil 5061 56,813
Added reserves, £11,877 .. .. 44,936
1931 13,106 9375 Nil 3731 41,205
Added reserves, £12,938 .. .. 28,267
1932 6,166 9375 Nil 31,476
Paid capital is £250,000, half ords. and the
other half preis. The ords. are held pri-
vately, public interest being confined to the
7-t p.c. cum. prefs., which enjoy priority as
to capital, and are not to exceed half the
total scrip issued. The co. took over in
1928 the tea business of .Tames Service and
Co., including the Robur Tea Co., for
£275,689, of which £75,000 was for good-
will, not treated as an asset herein.
The ords. got 8-| p.c. in the first year, but
nothing since.. Early in the piece it was
decided to go into the tea-room business, the
manufacture of table pottery, etc., was
undertaken, and activities were extended to
N. S. Wales, where the business of the Orien-
tal Tea Co. was bought. The initial expense
in connection with these new activities, in-
cluding interest on borrowed funds, made
itself felt. Then slump stood in the way of
recovery; taxation became onerous, com-
petition severe, and exchange complicated
the difficulties.
Last year the board decided to shorten
sail. There was a slip 0 f £5940 in the de-
clared net earnings, and reserves were tapped
for £3209 to pay the pref. div. That was
after £12,938 as against £11,877 in the pre-
vious year had been added to resei’ves, raising
them to £43,925, which includes an unspeci-
fied amount for depreciation. Subject to
this, the amount of capital unrepresented by
tangibles has been reduced in the books from
£61.874 to £31,476 over the last four years.
There is nothing uneasy about the finances :
1929. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities . . 57,551 84,464 94,286 92,029
Property, shares,
etc 53,491 129,117 148,001 149,140
Stocks . . 156,076 114,826 125,784 91,232
Book debts . . 41,800 39,395 34,983 44,431
Cash .. .. 9,623 31,435
Last year the overdraft (£44,673 at the
close of accounts in 1931) was wiped out,
£42,416 was added to the amount coming to
sundry creditors (£92,029), stocks were re-
duced by £34,500, debtors’ balances were
increased by £9448 and £31,435 was held in
cash when the books closed. The more or
less liquid surplus (£75,069, including
stocks) was £B5BB stronger than at the
previous balance.
Doubtful of the future, the market prices
the prefs. at 16s. 6d.; at that figure the
return is 9 p.c. Subject to the allowance
for depreciation, the cover is 355. in net
tangibles.
Victoria Nyanza Sugar Co., Ltd.
To Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 1,699 Nil 1,699 4,486
Reserves.
1924.. 37,179 124 p.c. = 32,500 4,679 193
1925.. 10,408 Nil 10,408 10,601
1926.. 43,699 174 p.c. = 52,500 1,800
April,
1927*. 75,158 20 „ „ 60,000 15,158 16,958
1928.. 44,963 15 „ „ 45,000 16 921
1929.. 62,338 15 „ „ 45,000 17,338 34,259
1930.. 55,003 10 „ „ 30,000 25,003 59 262
1931.. 799 Nil 60,061
*l3 months.
Headquarters are in Melbourne, where most
of the £300,000 of capital was subscribed,
but the plantations, mill and refinery are all
in Kenya, East Africa. There the co. shares
the local trade with four other mills; a new
one was recently erected and overproduction
threatens. During the 12 months covered
by the last accounts (they are to be presented
(Continued on page 16.)


Mj
After illness your
Doctor will prescribe
Tooth'S SHEAF' STOUT
LoWERED vitality calls for
special nourishment Then is the
time you need Tootles Sheaf
Stout. Rich in essential vitamins,
this easily digested beverage is a
definite aid to bodily health. It’s
food as well as drink.
Tooth’s “Sheaf” Stout costs no more than
bottled ale.
In quarts and half-bottles.
-IT MUST BE


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* * # *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Colmson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
INVESTMENTS.— What about Investment in peace
of mind with interest payable in future comfort ?
Nothing* does this like a Dife Policy in a sound
Society. What you put in that little flutter in tin
(and lost) would have paid you handsomely if put
in Life Assurance with the T. and G. Ring or
write the T. and G. Mutual Life for your Special
Policy.— Advt. r-2
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Aet J930-Sl.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores, Silver and Silver Ores
Gold and Silver Bullion, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates, Scrap Copper
and of all materials containing any of these metals. ’
PRODUCERS of Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate
(Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the
Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 380 Collins Street
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or
Port Kembla Office. The company will realise it on your account at current
London prices plus exchange, and will issue you a certificate to enable you
to collect the Gold Bounty.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THe Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, °etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, eent free, on request.
Directors:
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD THOS. BUCKLAND
CECIL 11. DOYLE (Chairman; .T. H. S. ANGUS
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital £8,780,000
Reserve Fund 6,150,000
Reserve Liability 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 .. .. ... 7! £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
iii Melbourne ou June 3,' over 12 months
after the books closed) an extra 26,959 tons
of cane passed through the rollers, despite a
dry spell and much destruction by locusts: —
1925. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Cane grown .. 14,774 41,436 36,978 50,389
Cane purehased .. 5,299 39,546 35,494 49,042
Sugar (white) pro-
duced .. .. 1,385 5,723 6,215 7,457
It thus took 13.2 tons of cane as against
11.6 tons in the previous term to make a ton
ui! sugar, and there was such a sharp fall
in the selling price that, after striking off
£14,084 for depreciation, only £799 of profit
remained. No div was paid. For the five
preceding years divs. averaged 15.5 p.c., and
profits averaged 18 p.c.; but the conditions
which made those results possible no longer
exist.
At the close of accounts the co. had gone
outside for an extra £32,201, mainly to
finance sugar stocks :
1925. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liability on land .. 3,404
Other liabilities .. 34,982 26,662 58,863
Mill 160,475 134,602 132,891
Land, buildings, etc. .. 45,902 66,624 63,758
Rolling stock, tramways,
plant, etc 63,347 93,355 84,084
Plantation development 52,434 43,518 47,388
Sugar stocks .. .. 5,975 28,482 62,760
Book debts .. -.. 2,856 17,388 19,782
Cash, etc 12,997 24,456 8,259
Thus the more or less liquid surplus
(£31,938, including sugar stocks) slipped
£11,726 during the twelvemonth. The plant
is reported thoroughly efficient and the plan-
tations in good order. On development £3870
more was spent than was written off, raising
the account to £47,388.
During the year to April 30 last, the
locusts destroyed a lot of cane; only 3248
tons of sugar had been manufactured at
March 23. But prices strengthened, follow-
ing the formation of a millers’ co. to control
distribution. The pound shares fetch 18s.
on the market as against 40s. a couple of
years ago. At 18s. the return would be
5.6 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The backing
is 245. in net tangibles, mostly fixed assets,
worth what they can earn.
Civil Service Stores (Sydney)
The Stock, book debts and plant were sold
to Anthony Horderns; the net proceeds were
sufficient only to discharge the debt
(£62,761) to the Commonwealth Bank,
charges due to the Crown and liquidators’
expenses, and show a balance of £lBO in
hand. The only unrealised asset is the free-
hold, valued at £373,995 before liquidation
commenced. The liquidators doubt whether
it will fetch enough, when it can be sold,
to cover the mortgage of £163,421, held by the
Lassetter family. Unsecured creditors (about
£30,000) thus don’t look like getting any-
thing. while shareholders, of course, will also
be right out of the picture unless property
values show a miraculous recovery.
N. S. Wales Shale Industry
The prospectus upon which it is expected
that sufficient capital will be raised to turn
the Newnes field into a large oil-producer is
now on the stocks in Melbourne. Tart of
the scheme is to complete the tunnel through
from the Wolgan Valley, where the works
are, and along which the railway line from
Newnes Junction runs. This will make avail-
able the deposits in the Capertee Valley,
and they are much larger than those on the
opposite side of the dividing range. The
result should be a great reduction in mining-
costs, which John Fell blamed chiefly for
the failure of the enterprise when it was
in his hands. He, of course, could tap only
ihe Wolgan seams.
Disagreements are blocking the progress
of Baerami, which is 60 miles or so north
of Newnes. It is admitted that success de-
pends largely upon the lease-owners joining
forces; but thus far these people have shown
more ingenuity in discovering obstacles than
in overcoming them.
“Spare Towkay”: Siam’s decision to sus-
pend the gold standard and revert to sterling,
with the tical stabilised at 11 to the £, will
be welcomed by Australian companies operat-
ing there. They nearly all market their ore
in the F.M.S., but pay labor and other exes,
in Siamese currency. Among Australian cos.
affected by the change are Ivatu Tin, Renong
Consolidated, Muang, Ratrut Basin, Ronpi-
bon, Satupolo, Takuapa Valley, Tongkah
Compound Nos. 3, 4 and 5, and Tongkah
Harbor.
* * * *
Gem production in Queensland was valued
at £3OOO for 1931 as against £5OOO in 1930.
About 140 men were engaged in prospecting.
Important finds were a 2oz. blue sapphire
at Mt. Leura, and a 12oz. corundum from
the same locality. Prospects of finding sap-
phires in the vicinity of Mt Leura are con-
sidered bright. Opal production did not
exceed £6OO worth. There is little demand
for gems nowadays.
=i= * * *
Western Petroleum, N.L., which holds
large areas in south-western Vie., has com-
pleted an agreement with the Vacuum 0i1,G0.,
whereby the latter, as a preliminary, will
check the result of two years’ work in that
area by geologist Mclntosh Reid. Prospects
are said to be bright, but only the drill can
give the final answer,
* * * *
At North Mt. Farrell, on the west coast
of Tas., only 300 tons of ore are being
treated weekly. The flotation mill (capacity
1000 tons per week), which was erected to
treat an accumulation of zincy tailings, is
idle owing to the low price of the metal.
Trouble with the 600-h.p. Diesel engine,
which supplies the power*, has hampered
operations, too.
* « « *
A London financial paper acclaims the
Rrownliill and Lake View shoots, worked out
years ago, as the two richest gold-bearers
ever discovered on the Kalgoorlie field. For
their size they probably were, but other
shoots, notably the Boulder Horseshoe boun-
dary lode, yielded more bullion, and are still
producers. The Brownhill dipped sharply
southward from the surface, and extended
through three other properties into the Asso-
ciated; there it ended. The Lake View
bonanza was first struck at the 400 ft. level.
It was a cigar-shaped body, and for each of
six consecutive months it contributed a ton
of gold to the mine’s output. Altogether it
yielded bullion valued at nearly a million
sterling.
❖ :]t sj: :j:
Sulphide”; At Lake View and Star
(W.A.) splendid results have been obtained
from flotation. The final residue from crude
ore assaying 335. per ton is less than 2s.
per ton, or £dwt., the recovery being 94 p.c.
This is much higher than is possible with
the old method of cyaniding the whole of
the ore, either with or without roasting. For
flotation a rich pyritic concentrate (about
one-tenth in bulk of the crude ore) is made.
It is expected that the cost of ore treatment
can be reduced to 7s. per ton when the plant
is treating 30.000 tons per month.
* * * *
In addition to carrying out extensive de-
velopment work, North Kalgurli is putting
its mine in order for full-scale production.
On the 250, 350, 500, 600 and 700 feet levels
stopes are being prepared and ore chutes
placed in position. Managing-director Whit-
field, who visited the mine at the beginning
of March, will give the shareholders first-
hand information at the meeting next month.
It is exjiected that an announcement will
be made as to how the co. proposes to treat
its ore.
* * * *
Rich yields are being obtained from a
number of Westralian shows. At Cue a
small parcel of 2cwt. returned 25|0z.; at
Ora Banda 70 tons yielded 2670 z., and from
another show 37 tons gave 2550 z. At Sand-
stone, in the East Murchison area, a trial
lot from the Lady May, taken from a 70ft.
shaft, gave 12oz. per ton, the lode being
bit. wide. These high returns stimulate
prospecting.
* * =!: *
The bore put down on the old Lancefield
property at Laverton (W.A.) is to be fol-
lowed by another to greater depth. The
Lancefield is one of W.A/s t)ig shows. In
its early stages gold extraction was a pro-
blem, but this was solved eventually. Still,
costs kept on mounting, and the mine had
to shut down.
* * * *
Leaseholders at Glenelg Hills, 60 miles
south of Southern Cross, have faith in the
£? ld - , Dunleavy is doubling the capacity of
his o-head mill. At Great Beacon two heads
are falling. There water is the trouble, but
chances of striking a good supply are said
to be encouraging.
* * * *
What might prove to be a new mine has
been found by a lad—Bert Franetovieh-—at
Birthday Gift, Brown Hill, Kalgoorlie. Bert,
who is fresh from school, “blind stabbed,”
and it came off. Ounce ore is being raised
from the shaft, and prospects look bright.
* * * *
At Donnovanille, between Nannup and
Greenbushes (W.A.), a promising alluvial
tin area is being investigated. At depth of
about 50ft. a width of over 3ft. 6in. of dirt
averaging fib. to lib. tin oxide per c.y. has
been met.
* * * *
Claude de Bernales expects to leave for
London within a few weeks. There he hopes
to _ get capital to develop and work the
Wiluna Moonlight group of leases (W.A.) ;
it is a low-grade proposition which calls
for mass-production methods.
* * :>
Gt. Boulder’s ore reserves continue to
increase, and the cash position is steadily
getting better. Another div. is expected to
be declared in June.
* * * *
Many rare minerals are found in West-
ralia. Some arc widely distributed, but few
have been produced in other than very small
lots. Their commercial value is mostly dis-
counted by the cost of mining and transport.
* * * *
The appeal to the Privy Council by the
Westralian mining cos. against the State
Court’s decision in favor of tributors on the
exchange question is expected to be heard
in July.
* * * *
Freney Kimberley Oil Co.’s new bore, over
the site of which there was wrangling among
the oil geologists, is down 1110 ft. The first
800 ft. was hard going; softer strata is ex-
pected to result in faster and cheaper work.
*S * *
Owing to over-production, De Beers Con-
solidated and the Premier diamond-mines,
S. Africa, closed at the end of March. When
sto'eks are reduced sufficiently they are to re-
open. In 1931 the Premier treated 3,275,000
tons of blue ground for 604,217 carats, a
decrease of 100,000 carats compared with
IP3O. The loss on the year’s operations was
£190,241. The co. has 11,000.000 tons of
ground in reserve.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How are Gaidwell’s ( Sydney ) likely to
pull through the difficult years which appear
to he ahead? —7s.
It is not possible to say definitely at the
moment. The business is in N. S. Wales;
much therefore depends upon the re-
sult of next month’s elections. Caldwell’s
began collecting champion ribbons and
medals for its wines in the 1880’s. After
the public became interested in 1920 the
business continued to make encouraging pro-
gress. For the nine years to the close of
accounts in 1928 the ords. averaged 10.6 p.c.
Owing to the difficulties heaped upon the in-
dustry, none have squeezed much profit out of
it since. Hence Caldwell’s ords. have received
no divs. for the last three, nor the prefs. for
the last two years. In 1930 the board was
fortunate to be able to claim a profit of
£228, after allowing for depreciation and
bad debts, but not taxation. There is some
doub.t about the book value of licensed pro-
perties, in at £ll4,7ss—these were bought
to anchor trade, mostly during the last
decade. There is, however, a revaluation
reserve of £61,486, or sufficient to entirely
offset the co.’s extensive goodwill (£25,000)
and one-third of the figure at which licensed
properties appear. But he would be a bold
man who would venture to say what values
are at the moment; and it does not follow
because the board earmarked £61,486 for
revaluation- that the whole of it will be re-
quired for that purpose. Recently the trade,
locally and overseas, has brightened a
trifle, but the outside debt (£83,664 at the
end of Dec.) and the amount coming to
the prefs. threaten to stand in the way of
the ords. for a while. But they are not
without hope, by any means.
(1) What is sterling? (2) In what way
has it differed from the gold standard? (3)
What is meant hy the gold. standard and
the gold exchange standard? —9993.
(1) and (2) Sterling is the British unit
of account, which is the English pound note.
The Bank Act of 1844 provided, amongst
other things, that (a), all notes issued by
the Bank of England in excess of £14,000,000
were to be secured by gold and silver in the
ratio of not less than 4 to 1, and (6) on
demand the bank was to pay for notes in
gold at the rate of £3 17s. 9d. per standard
ounce. Thus sterling and gold became syno-
nymous terms. No radical change occurred
until 1914, when, to help finance the war,
the British Treasury was given power to
issue unlimited amounts of paper money.
Thus the fiduciary issue (notes not covered
by gold) grew to £320,608,000 at the end
of 1919. The English paper pound was
then worth less than 70 p.c. of the gold
contents of a sovereign. After that the
Treasury went out of the note-issuing busi-
ness, and in April, 1925, the right to de-
maud gold (in bars of 400 oz.) for notes at
the bank at the old statutory price was re-
stored, and the embrago on the export of
the metal was lifted. Hence sterling and
gold again became synonymous terms.
Meanwhile the amount of the fiduciary issue
was limited to £275,000,000.. At Sept. 21.
1931, the right to demand gold for notes at
the bank at the old fixed price was sus-
pended. Thus Britain again went “off gold,”
and again the value of sterling in terms of
the metal depreciated. (3) A country is “on
the gold standard" when it can and does
concede the right to freely import and ex-
port gold, which must be bought and sold
by the central bank in any quantity at a
fixed price. Chief uses of gold are: (1) to
adjust a debit in the foreign ledger account,
and (2) to provide an anchor for the paper
currency. When the backing for a country's
note issue consists largely of foreign securi-
ties, which are convertible into gold, that
country is said to be on the gold exchange
standard. For instance, if Chile sold Ameri-
can securities in New York, it would estab-
lish a claim to gold there, while cancella-
tion of the notes received in payment for
the drafts would, by reducing the currency
in circulation, tend to adjust the rate of
exchange.
(1) Brief description of the recovery of
gold by cyanide process? (2) Strength of
solution? Can it be used again? (3) Use-
ful booh on subject? —97l7.
(1) Finely-crushed gold ore is placed in a
tarred iron vat. A weak solution of cyanide
of potassium is allowed to percolate through
the ore, leaching out the gold. The solu-
tion is then passed through boxes contain-
ing zinc shavings, on which the gold is pre-
cipitated. The shavings are then washed to
remove the gold, which is in the form of a
black or brown powder. This powder is
cleaned with sulphuric acid, washed, dried
and then smelted into ingots. The process
is used only where the gold is present
in a finely-divided state. Impurities such
as copper or antimony are detrimental. (2)
About 31b. of cyanide to 224 gallons of water
is usually sufficient. The used solution is
tested, brought back to its original strength
by the addition of more cyanide and used
over again. (3) “Manual of Cyanidation."
by Hamilton, sold by the Tait Book Co..
49 Queen-street, Melbourne ; price about 15s.
/ have a gold-reefing prospect in N. S.
Wales. How much ground can I take up,
and hoio do I go about securing it? —9614.
Anyone holding a. miner’s right seeking a
new and unworked reef or vein shall be
entitled to take possession of a quartz pros-
pecting area on vacant or available Crown
lands of 480 ft. in length by 400 ft. in width
if less than one mile from the nearest bound-
ary of any other mining tenement producing
gold; 720 ft. x 400 ft. if one mile and under
three miles distant; 960 ft. x 400 ft. if three
miles or more away. The area may be
pegged in accordance with the Mining Act
and Regulations, and a calico notice, which
can be had on application to the Mines
Department, should be placed on the datum
post.
brief answers.
Anxious: Australian Diatomeel, Ltd., National
Mutual Building, 350 George-street, Sydney....
Wants: The Long Tunnel, V’alhalla (Vic.) produced
815,5690 z. gold, and paid £1,283,400 in divs
F. J. 8.: Owing to lack of funds, Amalgamated
Hawkins Hill and Hill End has let its leases on tri-
bute, thus complying with labor conditions and
retaining its interest in the property F.J.W.:
(1) Uncertain. Co. leased theatre to Union Theatres,
Ltd., (now in voluntary liquidation), for 25 years
at £42,000 p.a. Whatever new arrangements were
made, if any, have not yet been announced.
Accounts to March 31 are due for presentation in
July. (2) Broadly speaking, the directors are
trustees or agents of the co.—trustees of the co.’s
money and property which they handle, agents in
the transactions which they enter into on behalf
of the co. They are responsible to the shareholders
who appoint them; the ordinary shareholders in
this case, as in most others.


Mining Machinery
7
T
'
% A / f
if ■*
n
Ft ! H J
i j
* H
■ ■
1. f/
II
r,'
1 nwHim ■'
jipgiii
111g| ■ || iiip|| |p : /■ |p| ■. g|1§.11 m • . 1 g M S ipilgs*
1 . ;
■ iiiiiiiiiii
:
SHHII ■
.. ■ 1 t
«vg «h 9b
One of Four Ball Mills recently made and supplied by us to THE LAKE VIEW
AND STAR, LTD., KALGOORLIE.
Weight: 22 tons without Ball Load, which weighs 1\ tons.
We are the principal Mining Machinery Contractors in Australia and during the
1st few years we have supplied ALL the Primary Crushing and Grinding Units
that have been made in Australia. This includes 37 Ball and Tube Mills and in
j], . T M;1 l £__ t u e Mount Coolon Gold Mines, we are now making for
THE MOUNT LYELL MINING AND RAILWAY CO., LTD., the largest Ball
Mill ever constructed in the Southern Hemisphere.
This Mill will weigh 72 tons without the Ball Load of 30 tons.
FEEDERS
CRUSHERS
SCREENS
BALL MILLS
(Grate, Overflow or Conical)
or
STAMP
BATTERIES
RAKE CLASSIFIERS
MECHANICAL THICKENERS
“Fahrenwald 5 ’
FLOTATION
MACHINERY
(Patented, Sole Aust. License to
Manufacture)
“CR”
MANGANESE and
CHROME STEEL
WEARING PARTS
FOR ALL MAKES
O F MACHINES.
THE "WILFLEY” CENTRIFUGAL
SAND AND SLIME PUMP (Patented),
used in every large Milling Plant in
Australia.
Low Operating Cost
Extra Heavy Parts
Ball-bearings Throughout
NO Gland or Stuffing Box
We are the Sole Manufacturers for
Australia and carry full stocks of Pumps
and Parts.
m
V «
■
m w
A 4in. “Wilfley” Pump opened up showing
facilities for very quick change of parts.
To MINE MANAGERS AND PROSPECTORS:
Our Mining and Metallurgical Engineering Staff will be glad to assist you m advising an equipping a y
genuine Mining Propositions that you may have. Please send us full particulars.
CHARLES RUWOLT PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Victoria Street, Richmond (Melbourne), Victoria, Australia.
TELEGRAMS: RUWOLT, MELBOURNE.


WOODS
GREAT
PEPPERMINT
CURE
For Coughs, Colds
and Influenza.
Never Fails.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: E. J. Tait, Frank Tait, J. H. Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
Jit AM) OPERA SEASON.
CRITERION: THE BARRETTS OF
WIMPOLE STREET.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: BLUE ROSES.
With MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITCHARD.
Missing Friends.
DONNELLA, THOMAS, Mechanical Engi-
neer, deceased, formerly of Brunswick,
born in America; any relatives communicate
with NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY,
113 Queen Street. Melbourne.
AY/ILLIAM PELCHEN, formerly S
Hamilton, Victoria, Farmer. Will the
abovenamed, or any person knowing his
whereabouts or able to give any information
regarding him, please communicate with his
brother, Harry Pelchen, Hamilton, Victoria,
when the said William Pelchen will hear of
matters to his advantage. He was last heard
of in Sydney, New South Wales, in 1920.
ESTATE OF ELIZA MALONE, of
Lisbareen, Bodyke, Co. Clare, Ireland,
Widow, Deceased.
INFORMATION is sought for MARY ANN
1 .TEFFSCOTT, daughter of Michael Fitz-
patrick, of Corbally, Ilunmore East, Co.
Waterford, niece of deceased, supposed to
have emigrated to Australia. If she will
communicate with the undersigned she will
hear of something to her advantage.
JAMES LYNCH, Solicitor,
Ennis, Co. Clare,
Ireland.
Ist March, 1932.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
♦
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Grand Opera Season
Criterion “The Barretts of Wimpole Street”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Koyal ' “Blue Roses”
State Movies and Talkies
Guns
[Scene: Main deck of 11.1.J.M.5. Asama,
Prince’s Pier, Port Melbourne. An at-
home in progress. The ship is dressed for
the occasion. Over the gangway float side
by side the Japanese flag and the White
Ensign. lied and white awnings, lanterns
and festoons of paper flowers make the deck
an attractive setting for the reception. Each
party of guests is received first by the cap-
tain, then by the vice-admiral and the Con-
sul for Japan. It is then placed under the
care of a
midshipman,
who methodi-
cally leads
it towards
where the
jamb of visi-
tors is thick-
est. Here and
there about
th e ship
little bowers
ha v e been
built repre-
senting some
of those
si g h t s for
“Very-well-fed schoolboys.”
which the island empire is most famous —
not the great naval shipbuilding yards of
Kure, the immense factory areas of Osaka
and Kobe and the vast munition works
at Yokohama, but Mount Fuji, towering in
miniature above a snow-clad landscape;
cherry blossoms framing a view of Arashima;
a typical house and garden of dwarf trees,
miniature waterfalls, toriis and bridges; a
model teahouse.
Despite the fact that the Asama has fought
with distinction in three engagements, the
whole ship looks like the creation of preco-
cious juveniles. It might be a giant toy
Noah’s Ark if it weren’t for the smoke-
stacks. The diminutive stature of the sailors
and their perpetually smiling or preternatu-
rally solemn faces add to this impression.
Even the cooks in the tiny galley look as
if _ they were playing at kitchens. In the
fo’c’s’le sailors are knitting jumpers. Others
are walking to and fro hand-in-hand in
couples. On the bridge a band is
playing English airs with instruments two
sizes _ too big for it. On the wharf is
a. display of Japanese national sports
—judo Icon juts it, or fencing, and sumo, or
"They bow to each other
profoundly ”
wrestling; also
of the ancient
two- handed
sword - fighting
-—real swords
with shar p
edges which
are brought
down towards
an opponent’s
nead with ter-
rific speed but
stop dead when
within an inch
of his occiput.
The wrestlers
stretch their
legs comically
before start-
ing and look
like very well-
fed schoolboys. One i,s the proud possessor of
the only .beard in the Mikado’s service. They
bow to each other profoundly, but go about
the game seriously. There is no boisterous-
ness.
For the purposes of the following one-act
dialogue the relevant characters are an
eminent Australian orator, charged with the
duty of returning thanks for the Asahi beer
and the saki; and a stout Australian matron
in charge of a small boy.]
“On behalf of the people of Victoria I
desire to extend a cordial welcome to the
officers and men of the Japanese train-
ing’’-—-
•‘Mummy, what is that man talking for?”
“The admirable discipline and courtesy of
your seamen is recognised wherever”
“Sh-sh, dear. He is making a speech.”
‘ Why is he, Mummy?”
“Your eagerness to study all those fea-
tures of our civilisation which”
“Why is he what, darling?”
“Have made us what, in all humbleness I
might say we are” •
"Making a speech?”
“A nation destined”——
“Oh, because he has to. I suppose, dear.”
"To share with yours in the cultural”
“Mummy, I
want to go
home. I don’t
like speeches.”
“Uplift of
races less for-
tunately”—
“Sh-sh, dear!
Wait till the
gentleman has
finished an d
I’ll show you
the pretty
guns.”
“The rela-
tionships of the
gi*eat empire
of Japan and
the great de-
ni o e r a c y of
Australia, as
countries on
the same litto-
“But go about the game
seriously."
ral of the Pacific Ocean, are happily of the
most”
“Mummy, what are guns for?”
“The great nation for which I am the
humble spokesman surveys with interest and
admiration the amazing growth which has
characterised your recent”
“Warships always have guns, dear.”
“A growth, which, if I may say so, offers
the happiest augury for the peaceful develop-
ments of our common heritage”
“But what do they have them for,
Mummy?”
“The amazing industrial and cultural
development of your country is not regarded
in tiiis country with any feelings other
than”
“Have what, dear?”
"The Japanese people supply an example
of patriotism, national citizenship, unity,
scientific progress and”
“Guns, Mummy?”
“The exchange of visits such as yours
between Japan and the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia will help to strengthen the national
friendship and help to promote the produc-
tion of”
“Guns, dear? Oh, to shoot with, of
course.”
“Goodwill”
“What do they shoot at, Mummy?”
“Increases with the years and should go
on”
‘‘What do what shoot at, dear?”
“As a lifelong student of the manners and
customs of your charming country and as
one who has been fortunate enough to visit
it in the world-famous cherry-blossom season,
might I say that a nation which so whole-
heartedly loves”
“The guns, Mummy.”
“The chrysanthemum, your national
flower, symbol of”
“Oh, the guns, darling! Why, at other
ships, of course.”
“A nation of flower-lovers, of poets, of
artists, of”
“Their own ships, Mummy?”
“Your quaint houses, your dainty gardens,
the tea ceremony, your charming little
geishas, your”
“No, of course not, darling.”
“As part of a great Empire, Australia”
"Then what ships do they shoot at,
Mummy?”
“Offers the tribute of her admiration to
a nation which, in a single generation,
has”
“What do what shoot at, darling?”
“Created a mighty empire of her own.
spreading over less fortunate countries her
“The only beard
in the Mikado’s
service.”
culture, arts, industry
and civilisation, by
reason of the superio-
rity of”
“The guns, Mummy.”
“The guns, darling?
What about the guns?”
“In conclusion, the
peace, if I may say so,
of the Pacific —nay, of
the world —depends on
the good understanding
and co-operation of the
countries that face that
ocean, and with that
thought in mind it is
the earnest desire of
the nation for which I
have the privilege to
speak that the visit of
your squadron should
contribute in no small
measure to an increase
in mutual understand-
ing and goodwill, and
thus further cement the
fraternal links that
unite the two great
nations of the Pacific, two peoples which
front each other across the Equator.”
“Is he finished now, Mummy?”
“Yes, dear.”
“Aren’t you glad, Mummy?”
“Yes, dear—no, dear. Come along and
I’ll show you the guns.”
»
Verdi put at least a dozen good honest
melodies into each of his ante-“ Aida” operas.
Puccini, wearer of Verdi’s mantle, learnt the
Wagnerian lesson of melodic economy before
he started to compose, with the result that
“BohSme” is built of two tunes and three
fragments, “Butterfly” of about four short
motifs , and “Tosca” 0 f one air and two
phrases. In each case the rest is amor-
phous recitative of the sort Papa Haydn
used as a representation of chaos in “The
“Within an inch of his occiput.”
Creation.” When on this arid desert an
oasis in the shape of something “distinctly
resembling a tune” (Sullivan must have
suggested that line to Gilbert) emerges,
audiences are expected to go mad with
excitement and generally give a fair imi-
tation of doing so. In “La Tosca,”
which the Williamson co. performed last
week, the richness of the orchestration and
the juiciness of Sardou’s mildly salacious
melodrama (written in an age when stage
heroines were supposed to go into hysterics
and swoon if their virtue was threatened)
are relied upon to hold the listener’s interest.
This throws a big strain on Sardou, the
orchestra and the histrionic talents of the
singers, and in last week’s Sydney produc-
tion the trio didn’t get within ‘ miles of
propping up the structure. Anna Surani,
who played the pestered and tempestuous
Floria, is no Bernhardt, and though her
scenes with Granforte (who made an elegant
Scarpia) were probably the most remark-
able ever witnessed on the stage of Her
Majesty’s, they didn’t come under the
heading of dramatic art. Mirassou, who has
some very good notes and makes the most
of them when he gets the chance, was a nice
Cavaradossi, and Michele Fiore got a lot
of low comedy out of the r6le of the" sac-
ristan. But both he and Mirassou should
learn something about painting. Brushes,
Signor Fiore, cannot be cleaned by rubbing
them the wrong way, and in painting the
hair of a brunette. Signor Mirassou, one does
not apply, alternatively or otherwise, strokes
of vermilion and ultramarine. A distracting
figure who hovered about most of the time
was Roy Glasheen, whose idea of a police-
spy seems to be a combination of Napoleon
and Uriah H’eep. Ilio del Cliiaro was pictu-
resque but ineffably stagey as a fugitive.
If the costumes sported by the cast really
were worn in Rome in ISO0 —men in perukes
and top boots and ladies in hobble-skirts
“The wrestlers stretch their legs.”
with five-feet trains —social functions in that
city must have been extraordinarily interest-
ing. The Firm’s latest “Tosca” .leaves in
the mind of this Showman one abiding
picture—Scarpia, roaring out a “soliloquy”
in a vain effort to drown an energetic
orchestra of 40, in a cathedral, with his
back turned to a solemn ecclesiastical pro-
cession that included a cardinal and two
bishops. In Rome in 1800 he would have
been lynched, were he forty chiefs of police.
In the play the Cardinal, who must have
“Sumo, or wrestling.”
been stone deaf and nearly blind, wafted
him a special episcopal blessing.
The evening’s great ovation went to Sir
Philip Game on his first public appearance
since he came to the rescue of the badly-
damaged Constitution of N. S. Wales. His
grave, preoccupied expression slowly relaxed,
and he colored slightly as wave after wave
of applause swept the house from gallery to
floor and back again. First he rose ‘and
bowed; then he induced Lady Game to join
him in a second acknowledgment.
* * ¥
* “La Traviata,” the answer to the prima
donna’s prayer, occupies itself with the
affairs of the Germonts, father and son. As
represented by Granforte and Alfieri respec-
tively in the Williamson co.’s performance
of the opera at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, both
“Kenfutsu, or fencing.”
the Germonfs suffer from a strange affliction,
doubtless hereditary. In conversation, how-
ever intimate and important the topic under
discussion, they address their remarks not
to the other person in the conference, but to
a point anywhere from 45 degrees to 90 de-
grees divergent therefrom. Signorina Valobra,
who otherwise gave a charming picture of
Violetta, punctuated the frequent and ela-
borate soliloquies, some of them very tragic
and pathetic, that belong to her part -with
bows and .smiles addressed to someone in-
visible. The audience, its respectful atten-
tion and its plaudits, were thus made a party
t'o proceedings 300 years and 12,000 miles
away. In the circumstances it was impos-
sible to feel any sympathy _ with the Ger-
monts or Violetta. They obviously preferred
applause, and plenty of it.
Dramatic values being thus abolished, it
remains only to praise the tine concert-stage
performance of some of Verdi’s most appeal-
ing baritone arias by Signor Granforte, and
the beautiful flexibility of Signorina Valo-
“The referee."
bra s voice. She is mistress of a clear pianis-
simo, which enables her to build up con-
siderable crescendos within the volume of
her rather light soprano voice. As in other
productions of the season the intervals, which
occur between every change of scene, were
unduly prolonged. On Saturday night a
space of close on an hour devoted mostly to
a. magic-lantern display of advertisements
of corsets and hosiery was alleviated by
12|- minutes of operatic excerpts.
¥ * *
Between the half-hundred or so of pianists
whose names are known throughout the
world of music and tb* half-million intelli-
gent and industrious performers in public
Jft? any, is localised
theie is no great gull fixed, though the
prestige and, in many cases, the appearance
and showmanship of the executants of the
fnst-named class give them a hypnotic power
that tips the scales of purely musical
appraisement very heavily in their favor.
>o Gale, who gave a Chopin recital at
. ydney Arts Club last week, played some
of the works in as satisfying „ this
Showman has ever had the pleasure of lis-
tening to. She has a tine sense of rhythm,
steers her way surely between the Scylla and
Chaiybdis of Chopin-players, woolliness and
li*!! dncss, doesn t nbuse the license of
rubato, pedals discriminatingly and presents
clearly the outline of the musical picture.
,® r I'Gadmgs of the Fantasie Impromptu
minor Polonaise (Op.
J\°- were so confident and impressive
that had she been hidden behind a screen
find the audience told they were listening
to some extensively press-agentcd foreign
person with a name like Pompovitzkv or
Stompovitch they wouldn’t have doubted it
£?. r . a . moment. Gwen Selva, who sang
Chopin s •Lithuanian Song” and “Maiden’s
\i ish and some lyrics to Chopin airs, gave
acceptable variety to the programme with a
pleasant, well-trained voice
* * *
Constance Burt, whom Melba admired
gave a vocal recital at Sydney Arts Club
during the week. She lias to some degree
the bird-like production of the late Dame
and sings Mozartian melodies beautifully
She has no great dramatic skill, her art
being that of the somewhat rare classic
school of Lino, centuries ago.
* * *
Sydney songbird Peggy Dunbar has de-
cided to fly to London for further experience
and her farewell concert occupied the Con
ball on Saturday night. This young con-
tralto has a rich voice, accurately produced
but needs more color and vivacity. She has
scored her most notable successes in
oratorio.
The New Sydney Rep. Soc.’s latest lot of
Grand Gliignol plays was particularly grim.
“Cavalla of the Russian Ballet” depicts the
meeting between an escaped prisoner, con-
victed of the murder of his sister, and the
person who really did it. O. J. Harvey and
Dorothy de Sallis kept the audience shudder-
ing. “Satan’s Daughter” is a stage nightmare
wherein an elderly woman is sent to her
grave by her niece. Dorothy Whiteley's
naturalness as the corpse-to-be made the
piece effective. “The Delta Wife” shows
a man and woman imprisoned in a hut with
flood waters rising around them. The bodv
of the woman’s lover, killed by the other
man, floats on. the rising water. Keith
Gribb and Marie Terry squeezed the last
ounce of horror out of the morbid item.
“Buried Alive” is concerned with the killing
of a woman, the concealment of the body
and the discovery of the crime in dramatic
circumstances.
# # w
At Brisbane City Hall the State and
Municipal Choir and Orchestra combined
in a performance of “Elijah,” with Archie
Day at the organ. The soloists, Mrs. N.
Bell, Nancy Muirhoad, Miss B. Dougall.
Herbert .Tones and W. Ashlin, were compe-
tent and the performance w 7 as impressive.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
N. S. Wales Interest Rates
One of the matters which probably made
ex-Premier Lang feel hot under the collar
in his dealings with Railway Commissioner
Cleary was a frank statement in the latteFs
long-suppressed annual report that N. S.
Wales now pays the highest interest rate on
its pile of borrowed money, and that it
would have saved these amounts if it had
only to pay :
Commonwealth rate.. .. £2,143,870
Westralian rate .. .. 1,359,822
Maoriland rate .. .. 1,068,431
Tasmanian rate .. .. 1,015,316
Queensland rate .. .. 454,339
Victorian rate •. .. 344,783
South Australian rate .. 58,355
If the report had added something about
the waste forced upon the Railway Com-
missioners in other directions, the ex-Premier
might have been even hotter —in fact, it
might have been a case of spontaneous com-
bustion, which is always serious and often
fatal.
Profits in the U.S.A.
The last American mail brought the official
returns showing how U.S.A. cos. fared in
1931. A tabulation of 1620 cos. had been
made and divided into 60 groups. Of these
60 groups 25 showed a loss on operation.
The unprofitable groups included makers of
agricultural implements, apparel, auto acces-
sories, building materials, cotton-mill goods,
fertilisers, furniture, hardware and tools,
railway equipment, rubber tyres, silk and
hosiery, heating and plumbing supplies, iron
and steel, leather, lumber, machinery (gen-
eral) and paper; also meat-packers, copper-
miners and producers of petroleum.
Mail-order merchandising, formerly a very
profitable business —it showed 14.4 p.c. in
1929—made a loss in 1931; wholesale mer-
chandising, which made 7.6 p.c. in 1929,
showed no profit in 1930 or 1931. Fire and
accident insurance cos. also made in the
aggregate a loss in the last two years: 1929,
profit, $72,988,000 ; 1930, loss, $107,503,000 ;
1931, sl44,99B,ooo—which shows once more
how inflammable things become when you
can’t sell them. Furniture-making has also
had two dry years; likewise the silk and
hosiery trade.
Throughout the three-year period the follow-
ing groups stand out as the most consistent
money-makers (1929 was a very prosperous
year, 1930 was a year when the U.S.A. tried
to persuade itself that it wasn’t going to
follow the rest of the world into _ the soup,
1931 was the year when it knew it had got
well into the tureen) :
1929. 1930. 1931.
Bakery 15.1 p.c. 13.8 p.c. 11.0 p.c.
Confectionery & beverages 25.0 „ 23.3 „ 20.3 „
Drugs and sundries . . 21.9 „ 19.1 „ 15.6 „
Food products .. .. 15.3 ~ 11.7 ~ 8.4 ~
Chain stores . . • • 19.3 „ 12.9 „ 12.7 „
Tobacco .. .. • • 14.6 „ 14.4 ~ 14.4 „
Dairy products .. .■ 20.8 ~ 17.1 ~ 12.2 „
Laundry and cleaning'. . 13.3 „ 10.8 ~ 8.4 ~
Groups showing very erratic figures (the
group therefore whose stocks are liable to
burn the fingers of the market-dabbler) are
as follows: —
1929. 1930. 1931.
Agricultural implements 14.3 p.c. 7.3 p.c. Nil
Amusements . . • ■ 17.0 „ 11.8 ~ 3.9 p.c.
Automobiles (m’f’g) .. 22.0 ~ 9.2 ~ 4.0 „
Auto accessories • • 19.7 ~ 5.5 ~
Hardware and tools .. 15.7 „ 4.4 „
Heating & plumbing goods 34.8 „ 10.8 „
Mail-order stores.. .. 14-4 „ 2.0 „
Restaurant chains .. 15.1 ~ 10.0 ~ 6.5 „
Groups showing 8 p.c. and over in the bad
year 1931 were: Bakery, chemicals, confec-
tionery and beverages, dairy products, drugs
and sundries, food products, laundry and
cleaning, chain stores, petroleum (pipe-line
owners), printing and publishing, stockyards,
tobacco, electric light, finance.
And now if he is going into*nianufacture
or merchandising the young man knows
which way to turn with the best chance ot
landing a million.
The Wool-growing Business
Dear Bulletin, —In Winchcombe Car-
son’s 43rd Annual Review, just published,
there appears the following: —
But in Australian currency, growers generally
received prices which compared favorably with the
previous year’s rates and were considerably higher
than those obtained in a few selling years in the
early part of this century. In 1900-01 the season’s
greasy wool in Sydney sold at an average of s§d.
per pound, 1901-02, 6jd., and 1908-09, 7Jd. Irhm
July 1 to March 31, this season, the greasy average
for the market was 8.5 d. per pound.
The implication, of course, is that the wool
industry has passed through harder times
and survived, and it conveys to the man in
the street the impression that growers are
making much ado about nothing.
I have worked out from the estimated pro-
duction of wool in Professor Shann’s “An
Economic History of Australia” the averages
(on a greasy basis) ; the disparity being so
marked I checked them by the world’s aver-
age prices from Appendix “A” of Professor
Melville’s Report on John Higgins’s Stabi-
lisation Scheme, and he states the figures
compiled from 1900 “are reasonably
accurate.” Summarised, they are :
Winchcombe’s
Year. Report. Shann. Melville.
1900- s§d. 8.2 d. Bd.
1901- 6jd. 7.3 d. Bd.
1908-09.. 7|d. 9.1 d. 10s.
And that’s that.
It must be obvious, moreover, that any
analysis or comparison of averages which
ignores costs of production is misleading.
Taking the wool seasons under consideration
and comparing them with the present, _ I
estimate from my own experience the in-
crease in actual costs of growing wool-
wages, transport, handling charges, interest,
station requirements, etc. —at 130 per
cent. But it is when we come to taxation
we get the spectacular rises; my authorities
are “Chambers” and the “Official Year
Book,” and the figures quoted embrace taxa-
tion by the Commonwealth, States and local
Government:—
Total
Year. Taxation. Per Capita.
1901- £13,630,964 £3 11 3
1902- 14,963,705 3 17 3
1908-09.. 17,586,432 4 3 1
1929-30.. 107,284,850 16 10 0
Total taxation has jumped up nearly 700
per cent, and per capita payments 475 per
cent.!
Even these figures do not adequately cover
the full burden imposed on primary produc-
tion. Until 1905 in N.S.W. the Shires Act
was not in force; the Commonwealth did
not come into the field of direct taxation
until 1910 for land and 1915 for income.
Every other section of the community has
had the ever-increasing load eased by arti-
ficial methods, but the primary producer has
to bear the whole brunt. —Yours, T. J. A.
Fitzpatrick (Junee).
Australian Failures Abroad
“E.M.S.” (Shanghai) : There are three
causes of Australian trade failure in Asia,
from Java to Manchuria. (1) The Aus-
tralian who comes to establish connections
is the wrong type. He has not a sufficient
command of English, let alone any other lan-
guage, to put his claims lucidly and briefly.
Next, the man for the job requires some
social qualifications; social intercourse
between white men and women is a bigger
business factor in the “Far East” than it is
at home, and social sensitiveness is inclined
to be far more acute. (2) Australian firms
lack enterprise. They seem timid about
advertising their wares as Americans do, and
assume a take-it-or-leave-it attitude which
may go down in Australia, where the brands
of their goods are almost household words,
but is ineffective in the Far East, where
their goods are unknown. (3) Australian
firms are careless about the packing and
general appearance of their wares —a care-
lessness that is taken to imply “anything
is good enough for a pack of niggers.” (That
explains why this carelessness is so much
resented.)
The Manufacturer and the Trader
Australian manufacturers complain that
many Australian traders are inconsiderate
in lodging orders for quick delivery, expect-
ing the supply to come out of stock. They
are not warehousemen, these manufacturers
say; practically all the capital they have is
wanted in the business of manufacturing,
which includes holding often large quanti-
ties of raw and partly manufactured mat-
erial. No doubt the traders can’t easily get
out of the old habits and practices of the
importing days, when goods were drawn from
warehouses which “chanced” the demand,
and of course had to pass on to the re-
tailer the cost of any unsold stock as well
as the interest on the money represented
by stock in store and transit. In course of
time the Australian manufacturer will be
able to maintain large warehouse stocks, if
the retailers insist upon it by a policy of
demanding instant delivery; but the retail-
ers and their customers
will inevitably then pay
more—pay for stocks
manufactured in excess
of demand plus interest
on the production value
of stocks held.
Meantime the manu-
facturer thinks kindliest
of the retailer who will
make an estimate of his
minimum requirements a
few months ahead, and
order accordingly; and it
is just as well to remem-
ber that there is a valu-
able goodwill in buying
as well as in selling.
“On Consignment”
Recently in Melbourne
a wholesale trader who
had supplied goods “on
consignment” demanded
their return when the re-
tailer assigned his estate.
“No,” said the assignee;
“you sent invoices with
these goods : —‘Sold to So-
and-so’ and now the
goods must be realised
for the benefit of the
estate, and you must come
in as an ordinary
creditor.” The question
was taken to the County
Court, and, on production
by the wholesaler of a
tliree-year-old letter set-
ting out that goods would
be sent for sale, the re-
tailer to be entitled to
return them at any time
and the wholesaler to call
for their return, verdict
was given for the whole-
saler. An appeal was
mentioned, but apparently
has not been proceeded
with.
The custom of the trade
is pretty definite. Never-
theless, in the absence
of a specific document,
setting out the terms of
the delivery, it looks dan-
gerous to let an ordinary
“Sold to ” invoice
accompany the goods.
Motor-Railway
Co-operation
A carrying firm ran
eight motor-vehicles be-
tween Adelaide and Mur-
ray Bridge (50 miles).
Government restriction
stopped the service. The
owner got a special rate
from the railways for 150
tons of freight a week,
and hired two 30-ton rail-
way trucks for his ex-
clusive use. The traffic
has already reached 450
tons a week- —more than
was evter previously
obtained by the railways
from the area. The rail-
ways don’t ask what
goods are carried: the
consignors are the motor-
owner’s customers, not
the railways’, and the
motor-owner actively can-
vasses for custom. All
three parties declare
themselves satisfied. It shows what can be
done by eo-operation between railways and
private feeder-services.
The Sugar Embargo
“8.0. P.”: Some authorities, such as Sey-
mour Howe, the capable manager of Mul-
grave Mill (Q.), say all our molasses and
most of our export sugar should be made
into power alcohol; but no one will invest
capital in alcohol distilleries without a
guarantee from the Federal Government of
sufficient protection. At present some
molasses is used for cattle- and pig-feed, and
some for fertiliser. But better ought to be
done. As a fertiliser it is worth only about
fl 10s. per ton on most soils —that is, com-
paring its manurial contents with those of
other fertilisers on the market.
Except for some high prices for cutting
crops of cane over 20 tons per acre which
require adjusting, labor in the canefields is
not overpaid; but the same cannot be said
of capital. In certain sugar areas you can
see families living in iron shacks and
humpies of the poorest kind, while money-
lenders in Cairns, Innisfail or Townsville
bleed them for 12, 15 and, in some cases, 20
per cent, interest for money lent. This
blood-sucking ought to be regulated. The
embargo is only justified if it maintains a
contented population in reasonable comfort
on the land.
The Bulletin lately named three points
on which the sugar industry should satisfy
the people in return for the embargo. There
are two others. First, that the raw sugar is
carried at a reasonable rate from the mills
to the refineries. (Actually, the shipping
cos. charge almost double the rate of some
years ago when wages were higher and
strikes and hold-ups more common.) Second,
that there is no unnecessary outlay in re-
fining and distribution. (Actually, there is
no need to send the greater part of the sugar
to the refineries. It could be manufactured
into white sugar at the mills and distributed
to the consumers all over Australia in 51b.
and 101 b. calico bags, if only the Federal
Government or the Commonwealth Bank
would finance the Sugar Pool.)
Apropos the writing down of values, one
share in each of 20 leading representative
stocks on the Sydney market would have
cost £99 15s. in 1929. This year the same
shares could have been bought for £37 16s.
This means that, on an average, the share
which was valued at 20s. at the peak in
1929 has been written down by the market
to 7s. 4d.—a reduction of per cent.
*.* * *
Comparison of the registration of new
commercial motor vehicles in the four
eastern States in the first three months of
1829 and 1932:- m 9. 1982 .
New South Wales .. • • • • 122
Victoria.. .. ■ • • • • - .
Queensland ■ . • • • ■ • • “'! r
South Australia • • • •
Restriction of motor transport, of course,
has been one factor in reducing the number
of registrations; but the figures give also
a line to the varying intensity of the depres-
sion in the several States.
Till recently it has been a proud boast
in M.L. that broadcasting has been free
from advertising. Following on the estab-
lishment of a controlling board, advertising
has crept into the programmes of B-class
stations, notwithstanding that there are re
gulations prohibiting it. Meantime, while
B-class stations are making the most of their
chances, the impoverished advertising
columns of the daily papers are looking
positively amemic; and latest advices are
that the Post and Telegraph Department is
taking notice.
* * * *
From Thursday Island :
The Murray Island sardine fishery has been
launched here. If it succeeds it will be mainly
because of Professor Goddard, the man at the head ;
if anyone can make a success of the business, the
island cheerfully admits it is he. Local pearling
has had a slight boost owing to Gerdau’s efforts
to popularise the use of shell. Nearly one-third more
has been ordered this year than last.
Recently 500,000 feet of sawn timber
left Cairns (N.Q.) in one overseas vessel—
a record. From this port, in the 20 years
1911-31, over 291,000,000 feet of log and
sawn timber has been shipped, and it is
roughly estimated that 3,000,000,000 super,
feet is still standing.
si: * *
From Pretoria (S’Africa) :
You will be able to judge how the farmer is far-
ing in S’Africa from the fact that 800 good merino
sheep, carrying 16 months’ wool, were sold at Harri-
smith, Orange Free State, in the middle of April
for £lO the lot. The country’s export trade —•
apart from gold—has been almost flattened out; the
one bright spot in our outlook is the steady movement
of Britain back to the gold standard.
* *
Some splendid turpentine piles were
brought from Fraser’s Island to Mary-
borough (Q.) recently, railed to Brisbane,
thence shipped to England, where they are
to go into a deep-water dock at Falmouth.
The splinters are 72-75 ft. long and not less
than Ift. through at the small end. The
shipment amounted to between 4000 and
5000 tons. Supplies had been drawn from
Portland, Oregon (U.S.A.), until the “Buy
British” bee got busy.
WOE TO THE DEFENCELESS!
"Undefended Australia is the ultimate objective of overcrowded Asia"-From "Th e Pacific:
A Forecast,” by Col Etherton (late Consul-General in Chinese Turkestan) and H. H. hitman.
LITTLE AUSSIE: “What are they fighting for, Grannie?”
GRANDMOTHER EUROPE: “The right to something they won’t have to fight for, my child.


OJ.
r.
¥
Heating Large
Buildings.
“Ideal” Radiators, used in
conjunction with the
“Ideal” Boiler, heat
average-sized rooms for
about twopence per room
for 24 hours. Cheaper
than other systems.
Write for particulars and
booklet.
a
sr
f
n
t'
HOT WATER BILL FOR TWO
BATHROOMS & KITCHEN 2/3 PER WEEK
The three aims of a good hot-water system, viz., continuity, high temperature and
low upkeep, are solved by the
IDEAL DOMESTIC BOILER
It is compact, runs for long periods with one charging of coke, and requires no shilled
attention. The charge for fuel is small. A hotelkeeper tells us: “My Ideal Boiler
keeps the kitchen and two bathrooms supplied with hot water all the time for 2/3
per week. If I were looking after the boiler myself, I could bring the bill down to
l/o per week.
Thousands of installations throughout Australia in homes, hotels, clubs, colleges,
hospitals, factories and poultry farms, etc. Saves more than it costs.
John Danks & Son Pty., Ltd.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
391-403 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
Made by the National
Radiator Co., Bull,
England, and distributed
by DANES.
SMOKE-OH!
It was touch and go with Lang.
. * *
“There seems to be everlasting change in Govern-
ment in Australia. Why?”
—Overseas visitor in “Sun.”
Well, a man needs some change.
* H-
“Vic. chemists complain of unfair competition from
private traders.”— “Herald.”
But the Water Commissioners are the
narks who sell the most profitable line of all.
K- *
Lang is certainly out. for the good of the
people.
“Can you prove that the square of the
hypothenuse is equal to the sum of the
squares of the other two sides?”
“I don’t have to prove it, sir; I admit it!”
Germany wants to treat them as R.1.P.-
arations.
TRAGIC TRIOLET.
It said on the ticket, quite clear,
That the line was “a regular snap."
A dance frock, and “not very dear,"
It said. But it’s perfectly clear
Why I soon felt decidedly queer!
For rather in firm' was the strap....
It said on the ticket, quite clear,
That the line was a regular snap.
T. P.
¥ *
“While the pre-selection candidate was speaking
at Ryde, a cow crossed the road and stood as if it
wished to hear.”
Silly cow!
* *
ENGLISH UNDEFILED.
OK
Making It Perfectly Clear.
“Ex-Solicitor-General Garran, at the annual dinner
of the Australian English Association, said he hoped
that the name of the association did not suggest
that it was to perpetuate Australian English. Sim-
plicity had its merits, but it should never be allowed
to degenerate into baldness. His own collective
works were the Commonwealth Statutes. He belonged
to that deserving class of writers who tried to write
English, and he hoped that the statutes approximated
to the language.”— “S. M. Herald.”
“WHEREAS, my Well-beloved and Trusty
Jane,” said the earnest young lover and
student of Quick and Garran, “by our War-
rants of the 9th ult. (See provisions of Sec.
10, Para. 2, Jane-William Proposed Matri-
monial Agreement, 1931), it
was projected, or intended,
to make divers plans,
arrangements and schemes
in terms, as per schedule, of
said Warrants”
“What English!” sighed
the girl ecstatically. “What.
lucid i ty ! No Lawson
character ever spoke as
William does.”
“And NOTWITHSTAND
ING,” proceeded her admirer,
“all or any, provisos or pro-
nunciamentos me n t ioned,
adumbrated, or in any wise
referred to in the above-
mentioned Section, or any
other such, as shall, or may,
from time to time be men-
tioned, adumbrated or re-
ferred to hereafter, let it be
hereby and hereunder under-
stood that”
The maiden’s illiterate
Aussie father stirred restively
in his seat near the fire.
“Sounds to me,” he
growled, “as if he was try-
ing to crawl out of the en-
gagement.”
“Don’t be silly,” whis-
pered his wife. “I expect
it’s his cultured way of ask-
ing her to name the day.”
The commanding tones of
the lawyer, employing tin-
fair tongue which Shakspeare
never spake, again domin-
ated the room.
“PROVIDED ALWAYS
that where, and so far as,
the said Agreement, and any others there-
unto annexed, does, or do, not otherwise
direct, then let the position stand in toto as
though the said Agreement had' never been
made, signed, sealed, delivered, or otherwise
come to, ALWAYS EXCEPTING”
“The style of the Bible is positively bald
compared to his,” cooed Jane.
_ “On the other hand,” objected her incor -
rigible sire, “a cove can understand the
Bible.”
“NOW THEREFORE, my Will and
Pleasure is, my dear Jane, and I do, by our
above-mentioned Warrants, direct, authorise,
and ORDER, irrespective of anything which
may have previously been authorised, or
settled, to the contrary, and giving preferen-
tial consideration where due, but subject to
and under, such orders and regulations as
may, from time to time, be made, that our
debts, whether to widows, orphans, dependent
relatives of soldiers, citizens or nations, shall,
in due course, and, whosoever may direct to
the contrary notwithstanding, BE PAID.”
“I i knew- it,” cried Jane, worship shining
through her double-lens spectacles. “My
hero!”
“What’s he been saying?” demanded her
father.
“That he has no time for the Lan<r Plan.”
D. J.
¥ ¥
N.S.W. has dropped its bundle.
¥ ¥
This man Mollison seems to be an engag-
ing sort of cove.
BARGAIN HUNTING—I 932.
“Ho, Mrs. Muggins, come right in! I
thought you’d be over ter see what I got.
’Ravens, I did find a crowd; but in I works
me frame, an’, er course, that cat Mrs.
Smutts must go fer th’ things I’m after. We
’ad a fair tug-er-war over some silk stockin’s,
an’ when that shopwalker Wilkins tried to
interfere they banged ’im with a bottle. I
was sorry, ’cause poor old Wilkins ’as always
bin so nice an’ short-sighted with shop-
lifters in the parst.
“Anyhow, after an ’our or so I gets me
load. ‘Cripes!’ says ’Enry, when ’e sees
the ten-quid suit I got ’im. ‘Yer did do
well.’ I did, so I agrees corjially. Yer can’t
beat an En-Zed riot fer bargains.”
o. w. w.
BEATEN!
It was obvious to his confreres at the
Bar table that Bob Bigfee, K.C., the divorce
matinee idol, was all in. In the 95th hour
“You did!”
“No, I didn’t, dear”
“Yes, you did, darling.”
But I tell you, dearest, I did not”
"Well, look here. One of us isn’t telling the truth, and
there’s only one thing prevents me saying which
of us it is.”
"Well, it isn’t modesty, anyway.”
of his marathon address he had just com-
pleted his 4784th case law submission And
now lie had exhausted every known barris-
terial device for stringing out profitable suits.
Long, heated, even insulting, rallies with his
learned friend, over which they were wont
to have a joke and a drink at the luncheon
adjournment; the 18 irrelevant pages from
Blah on Torts that were got in despite
frenzied opposition from the other side; the
1700 adroit side-trackings from • the main
issue, involving 3252 intricate legal argu-
ments—to think that, after all this, sheer
physical disability was likely to rob him of
victory!
The end came _ suddenly. Swaying gal-
lantly on his blistered feet, his outraged
throat refusing continuance of its natural
functions, he tottered, word-drunk, to the
Bar table and, mutely signalling his Honor
his capitulation to the inexorable forces of
Nature, he crashed, a beaten man, into his
chair. Silent handclasps betokened the
admiring sympathy of his colleagues, but the
gall of defeat was bitter in his soul. Win
the case he might—doubtless would, he re-
flected despairingly—but victory—the only
victory he craved —had eluded him.
Admittedly he had set new figures with
38,922 “I objects”; but it was hard to think
that he had only missed the record put up
by Wally Gasbagge, K.C., by a mere Bmin.
17sec. and 24 jokes.
K. W.
¥ *
“He fired at the men who had broken into his
shop as they ran away.”
So even this weather isn’t keeping some
people from shooting the breakers.
V- *
“At Bath a man named Broom appeared on
the platform in a crowded hall without any clothes.
The hall emptied rapidly.”— Cable.
A nude Broom mostly sweeps clean.
¥ #
DEFYING THE COLD.
“What is the best way to keep warm during the
winter.” —Useful Hints query, “Sun.”
Always eager to be helpful, “Percy Pawn-
ticket” obliges:—
Get into hot water with the boss. This can
be done by persistently turning up late.~"
Get fired.
Enter into a heated political argument at
a pub.
Ask the income-tax people to send j r ou your
poultice.
Return to pub and stay there telling
smokeroom stories.
Arrive home at 9 p.m. for dinner. Your
wife will then give it to you hot and strong.
If you still feel the cold, get under the
sheets and blank it.
‘‘When the electric light is switched on and no
light appears, look first to see if the fuse is faulty.”
Another method is to look and see if the
bill has been paid.
# *
“Constable Atkins said that accused was standing-
in George-street, singing. She was intoxicated.”
— “World.”
The John Hop quickly made his choice;
A scent of gin encumbered her;
She had no timbre in her voice,
And so he kindly lumbered her.
BOOSTING THE CIRCULATION.
“To me, the pre-occupation of your papers with
hideous crimes makes for dulness.” —Overseas visitor.
A girl has teen stabbed at Coogee.
At Manly, in pools of gore,
And, shrouded in blood-soaked soogee.
They’ve turned up a couple more.
Now forward, ye Masters of Tripe, and
splurge as ye never splurged before!
Let camera fiends take pictures,
With crosses to mark the spot ;
Let clergymen publish strictures,
Rebuking, in language hot,
The modern lass who gives church a miss,
and goes off and gets stabbed or shot.
Get interviews with the mothersj
Don’t worry if they object;
The artist in horror smother's
His writings with slush direct
From homes where the Reaper (Grim) has
stalked—it heightens the grisly effect.
And so, with the moron stripling,
Your rag will achieve a pull;
And you, to paraphrase Kipling,
May say: “.Though some find it dull,
Tf blood be the price of Improved Net Sales,
Lord God we ha’ paid i’ full!”
D.
PIETY AND PIETSGH.
“ ‘Unless there is a revival here there will be civil
strife,’ said the American evangelist the Rev. Dr.
W- E- Pietsch. ‘Every Christian who goes to the
movies is a backslider and should be fumigated.’ ”
0 shun flic shameful picture show!
Beivare the sinful song and dance!
The theatre is vile and low —
It doesn’t give our show a chance!
0 won’t you in psalm-singing join?
Coyne, say your prayers with the elite!
We only aslc a silver coin —
All ■ other shows are counterfeit.
We're businesslike, you understand,
Our methods are most up-to-date;
We've one eye on the Promised Land.
And. one on the collection plate.
NORBELL.
ON THE ’AIR.
This is station GAB, Melbourne. The
time is now 7 p.m. The number you
have just heard is “By the Sad Sea Waves,”
played by Honey Mellody’s orchestra. The
sea shore naturally suggests shingle and
Madame de Menti’s famous hair-waving
salon. If you are undecided where to go for
a corps-de-ballet shingle, a permanent wave
or an embonpoint emollient, scientifically
administered by an acknowledged artist, go
to the most up-to-date hair-waving establish-
ment in Melbourne. Madame’s charges are
as moderate as her methods are marvellous.
The time is now 7.15. The selection you
have been listening to is from “The Barber
of Seville.” He was a good barber, but for
superb, up-to-the-moment liair-dressing you
should consult Madame de Collete. She has
the best-equipped beauty parlor in Mel-
bourne, with all the latest impediments.
Her treatment of the hair—tinting, waving,
bleaching, shingling and immolating—is the
very best procurable in Australia. Her
terms are reasonable. Be up-to-date and go
to Madame de Collete.
The studio clock is now chiming 7.30. That
jazz number was “The Red-H'eaded Widow.”
Maids, matrons or widows with red hair—
or black, browrn, white, grey, corn-yellow,
ash-blonde or Jamaica ginger hair —should
lose no time in going to the beautifully
appointed parlors conducted by Madame
Chevelure. Her treatment of the hair,
whether by electricity or auto-suggestion, is
famous throughout the Commonwealth and
is the last word in pilose art. Her fees are
so moderate and her treatment is so price-
less that I cordially recommend her to the
woman who cares. The best is not good
enough for you !
The time is now a quarter to eight and
you have just heard grandmamma’s favorite.
“Silver Threads Among the Gold.” That
song reminds us that woman’s crowning-
glory can best be treated by Madame Patty
de Fois Gras, the Parisian specialist and
world-famed wizard of the waves. All
society women flock to her and proclaim her
“It.” Why not pay her a visit? Her terms
are embarrassingly small.
The post-office clock is chiming (fight. The
number you have just heard is “When the
Corn is Waving, Annie Dear.” In the elec-
tric hair-waving salon of Madame Faux Pas
the waving, at any rate, is not dear. Ha.
ha! Madame is recognised by all as the
ne plus ultra and chiaroscuro of the hair-
embroiderer’s art. Madame stands alone.
ISLAND PLANTER: “What is the difference,
Professor, between a flapper and a
cannibal?”
PROFESSOR: “Er-er—what do you think is
the difference?”
ISLAND PLANTER: “Well, the flapper enjoys
herself and the cannibal enjoys other
people.”
assisted by a large staff of Paris-trained
experts. Have afternoon tea, eyebrow-
plucking, cup-reading,' pedicure, mud-mas-
sage, a permanent wave or a decree nisi
with her. Curling a specialty. She it was
who put the bend in the Yarra, and her
charges are very moderate.
Kinky Joe’s orchestra will now play for
you, “In ’Er ’Air She Wore a White
Camellia.”
NORBELL.


l esterdau...
GERMAN U BOATS’ PART IN DEVELOPMENT
OF A LEADING AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
It was back in those dark, anxious
days of 1917, when the fate of the
Empire was in the balance, that
Holden’s Motor Body Builders Ltd.
first took shape.
Shipping space at that time was
greatly restricted owing to the re-
quirements of war, and to the
tremendous losses which had been
suffered by the British mercantile
marine as a result of the ruthless
submarine activities of Germany.
The Commonwealth Government
wanted more shipping space than
was available, and, realising how
much space was being lost to them
through the employment of ships
carrying bulky motor cars to Aus-
tralia, it was decided to restrict
their use for this purpose by plac-
ing an embargo on the importa-
tion of motor car bodies. Chassis,
however, were still permitted to
come in. Naturally, the embargo
threw the whole motor trade into
a furore. It meant financial ruin
to many engaged in the importa-
tion and selling of cars. It meant
unemployment for thousands of
Australian workers employed by
the motor industry.
A solution of the problem had to
be found—someone had to build
bodies locally. But who was there
capable of quickly taking over this
heavy responsibility?
“HOLDEN & FROST LTD.”
Up to that time, there was a busi-
ness in South Australia operating
under the name of “Holden &
Frost Ltd.,” which had been well
and favourably known throughout
the Commonwealth as manufac-
turers of saddlery, harness and
various other types of leather
goods. Owing to the gradual de-
crease in the use of the horse, how-
ever, the business was becoming
less profitable, so the owner of the
business, Mr. H. J. Holden, and his
son, Mr. E. W. Holden, were look-
ing round for further avenues of
development.
Just before the imposition of the
embargo Holden & Frost were en-
gaged in the manufacture of a few
special bodies for the Cheney
Motor Co. in Adelaide, so that
when the embargo was officially
announced in the press the sugges-
tion was made to Mr. Holden senior
that there might be an opening for
the development of the motor body
building business in Australia.
At a subsequent meeting of the
Federal Council of Motor Traders,
convened in Melbourne, Mr. H. J.
Holden propounded his scheme
for supplying the needs of the in-
dustry with bodies. The prices he
quoted were considered by other
body builders present as impos-
sibly low. However, the exigencies
of the situation demanded that
something should be done, and
eventually the Federal Govern-
ment was induced to release the
embargo to the extent that one
complete car he allowed out of
every three chassis imported.
Mr. Holden undertook to supply
the balance of bodies required on
the definite understanding that he
would be protected when the em-
bargo was lifted. This has been
the policy of each successive Gov-
ernment since that time and it is a
lasting tribute to the management
of Holden’s that no increases of
duty have been requested since the
JBHh
* f
mmrnm
■■'Wmmi
.
£s#
.
•.•••'•' .
: v.: ;
N
WHm
■ ■
KM
■
hi
Hi
£M V. : -
■
;-:ahV:
1 ■
■•:■■ ;
wm
Wm
I
■:
■
.
Mr. H. J. Holden, who started business in a modest way as
saddle and harness maker, and later laid the foundation
Holden Motor Body Builders Ltd. was built.
a wholesale
upon which
whole matter was investigated,
when the embargo was lifted and
the original duties imposed in
1918.
First Loss —Then Profit.
The development of the business
was intensely interesting. Com-
pletion of the first order —for
twelve Dodge car bodies —resulted
in a loss of £l5 per body—truly a
day of consternation and dismay
for the Accounting Staff! The sec-
ond order, for twenty bodies, was
received shortly afterwards, and
again the Accounting Staff was
amazed —this time because the loss
per body was only about £5. The
third order for fifty resulted in
breaking even, and thereafter, by
the development of mass produc-
tion methods, losses were avoided
and a small profit shown.
The second company to place
orders with Holden’s was the Over-
land Organisation, under the guid-
ance of Mr. Fred Z. Eager. It is
interesting to note that Messrs. E.
Mr. E. W. Holden, son of Mr. H. J.
Holden and Chairman of Directors of
General Motors-Holden’s Ltd. He suc-
cessfully took up the development task
which his father so ably began.
• ® @ ®
G. Eager & Son Ltd. are now the
distributors for all General Motors-
Holden’s Ltd. products throughout
Queensland to-day.
At this time, General Motors were
not operating in Australia as a
Company, but various dealers were
importing their chasses and buy-
ing the bodies from Holden’s.
General Motors Places Big
Contract.
A survey of the position was made
by Mr. J. D. Mooney, President of
General Motors Export Co., New
York, and after a most searching
investigation and careful consid-
eration, he decided to make a con-
tract with Holden’s for the supply
of all General Motors’ body re-
quirements in Australia.
This association with General
Motors made possible the further
development of the Holden body-
building business, with the tem-
porary assistance of experts in all
departments sent from America.
To-day, the body-building factory
at Woodville is run entirely by
local personnel and is as well-
equipped and modern in its
methods as any body-building fac-
tory in the world. Its products, as
proven in a recent General Motors
world-wide competition for stan-
dard production jobs, compare
more than favourably with the best
from overseas.
Turnover of Nearly £3,000,000
in 1929.
The growth of the Holden organi-
sation is indicated by the follow-
ing figures. In the year 1918 the
output of bodies was approxi-
mately 300 for the whole year. In
the peak year of 1929 the output
increased to 46,000 bodies.
The original number of employees
was approximately 30, and in the
peak year there were actually 5,200
employed.
The capital of the Holden organisa-
tion reached the figure of
£1,174,000 and the value of plant
and machinery alone was worth
nearly £BOO,OOO. The turnover in
1929 ran to nearly £3,000,000, of
which stupendous amount the body
contracts of General Motors
accounted for about 50%.
LTD
'm
m
HOLDEN’S MOTOR BODY BUILDERS
Division of
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LTD.


r Vodmf
• • e
AUSTRALIANS PL A 1
QUALITY
MO
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
E. W. Holden
Chairman and Managing Di-
rector, Director of Bank of
Adelaide.
HR
Sir John Butters
Well known as former Gov-
ernment Commissioner in
charge of building Canberra.
One of. Australia’s leading
consulting engineers.
A. G. Ryntill
An extremely able, business
man. Chairman of two com
panies, director of the Ban!
of Adelaide, and three, othei
prominent companies.
J. D. Mooney
A non-resident director. Pre-
sident of General Motors Ex-
port Co., New York. Con-
trols destinies of all G.M.
organisations outside the
United States.
A< N. Lawrence
Vice-President G.M. Export
Co. and Australasian Regional
Director. A Canadian, lie
has spent a lifetime in the
motor business. ‘
Sir W. Bruce
Senior partner, Wallace
Bruce & Co. Director of six
other companies and twice
Lord Mayor of Adelaide.
V
■
■
mm
m
1 ®
■i
A
a
J. R. Holden
Responsible for control o'
factory operations of ,tCom
pahy. Long experience unde:
Mr. E. WJ Holden make
him particularly suited foi
this work.
*
■
Hi
A-
G. K. Howard
Another non-resident direc
tor with headquarters in Nev
York. He is General M.ana
ger of G.M. Export Co. Ha:
wide experience of motoi
industry.
.
■H
S 3
| j[SEDER its Australian Direc-
■ torate, General Motors-
Holden’s Ltd. has a definite
objective—to completely iden-
tify ~ its t organisation as an
Australian entity. But this 1
objective must only be achieved
through rendering honest ser-
vice to the Australian motoring
public. To seek spurious adver-
tising and publicity by merely
raising the percentage of Aus-
tralian content in its vehicles,
without having fully proved
that the quality of the material
and workmanship locally pro-
vided was at least equal to the
imported equivalents, would
not suffice. It would mean that
the Australian purchaser would
obtain less value than he was
justly entitled to, and that
General Motors-Holden’s Ltd.
was able to offer.
General Motors-Holden’s Ltd.
consider that such a policy
would be un-Australian in every
sense of the word. It would be
unfair to the Australian motor
user, reflect adversely on Aus-
tralian manufacturers and,
workmen, and would be un-
sound from an economic view-
point.
AUSTRALIAN FACTORIES
CO-OPERATE.
To-day scores of Australian fac-
tories are working with General
Motors-Holden’s Ltd. to the
ultimate end of making every-
thing necessary to produce
motor vehicles that are 100%
Australian in workmanship and
material —cars and trucks that
will compare favourably in
every respect with present-day
importations.
And so, slowly and with meticu-
lous care, General Motors-Hol-
den’s Ltd. are heading for their
objective, the progressive and
ultimate attainment of which
means more wealth for Aus-
tralia and more jobs for
Australians.
AFTER SALE SERVICE.
This short account of the com-
pany’s policy would be incom-
plete without mention of what
is virtually the corner stone on
which General Motors-Holden s
Ltd. rely, for the success of their
enterprise—SEßVlCE.
One of the major desires of the
company is to keep its custom-
~,
r' :
•*«
m
UK
The British Australian Lead Manufacturer Pty. Ltd., Cabarita, Sydney.
Mahers of “Duco” used by General Motors-Holden s Ltd.


PROMINENT
PART IN BUILDING
OR VEHICLES!
i ■
■
%
W
I
gS?»“S£j;i
i«¥2
t~m>™
3K«ass
*- s *2r? ) ***
*
«#
SS***
KN
***•£
***
aw"**
***
5>2
KP!
M
«*<
1
"*i #.
f,
. te>&< - *
■ ■
■
■ 11
&§?gfg*§*
: asail wsk
*
.
: m
:
H
>v
...
f**-sn
i f-tTVirwf' J^i’inwWiVriii
ig ; :; 11 ip.
1 1.11 ■l.
f&p.;.;..,,;,/* -,pg 4L :
■
-
0
L
vii p. P'
I
m
z
mm
___.
Showing at left the fine, modern building which houses the headquarters
of the company in Melbourne. Here also the building of cars for all Aus-
tralia is carried on under supervision of highly skilled, experts. Below is a
bird’s-eye view of the Holden Motor Body Building Plant situated at Wood-
ville, S.A. From the standpoint of buildings, machinery and equipment,
and the quality of its products, this plant compares favourably with the
major body building factories of the world. It occupies 40 acres of land,
of which 21 acres are covered bx buildings.
ers satisfied. To do this a vast
network of authorised General
Motors-Holden’s Ltd. dealers
operate throughout the Com-
monwealth always ready to
meet the requirements of the
huge army of owners of General
Motors-Holden’s Ltd. products
and imbued with the same de-
sire as the main company, to
render honest service to the
public.
Supporting this, the most exten-
sive organisation of motor deal-
ers in Australia, is General
Motors-Holden’s Ltd. Spare
Parts Dept. Here, stocks valued
at many thousands of pounds
are carried, so as to ensure the
ready availability of genuine
spare parts of guaranteed qual-
ity for all General Motors-Hol-
den’s Ltd. car and truck lines
at minimum cost.
General Motors-
Holden’s Ltd., show-
ing panel assembly
lines. Panels, cowl,
doors, etc., are added
in proper sequence,
until the body is
completely panelled
at end of the line.
Typical of the Australian Factories supported
iy General Motors - Holden’s Limited
Where Australian replacement
gears are made for General
Motors-Holden s Ltd. One section
of the shop in the establishment
of John Sonnerdale & Son,
Sydney, gear manufacturers.
preading room in the mill of Leathercloth
'ty. Ltd., Melbourne , where Australian broad-
loth for General Motors-Holden s Ltd. cars is
manufactured from Australian ivool.
Assembling Australian batteries in the plant
of the Chloride Electrical Storage Company
Ltd., Sydney. General Motors-Holden s Ltd .
is a large user of Australian Batteries.
Read overleaf what J. D, Mooney has to say about
the future of the motor industry in Australia,
CHEVROLET • V AUXH ALL » PONTIAC • OLDSMOBILE • OAKLAND ® BUICK
LA SALLE ® CADILLAC CARS © AND CHEVROLET • BEDFORD • G.M.C. TRUCKS
Products of
GENERAL M 0 TO R'S- HOLDEN’S - LIMITED


omorrow...
Said J. D. MOONEY
DURING RECENT VISIT TO AUSTRALIA
4 iTOURING periods of stress
and difficulty, those guid-
ing principles that have con-
tributed to our success and are
the foundation of our business
tend to become obscured in our
day-to-day problems.
“In reality they become even
more important in maintaining
an even keel in rough weather,
forming, as they do, the actual
foundation of our business.
“Therefore, I think it oppor-
tune to outline those principles
upon which General Motors-
Holden’s Limited have been
and will depend upon for their
success.
“1st —Fine materials, quality,
craftsmanship must be built
into every product we manu-
facture.
“2nd —Full capitalisation of
Australian manufactured qual-
ity materials.
“3rd —Lowest possible price
commensurate with full equity
in the purchase price of our
products in relation to the value
of the product.
“4th —Careful and conscien-
tious service to the users of our
products.
“We are proud of our par-
ticipation in Australian indus-
try, and confidently expect to
progress as a part of future
growth and prosperity of the
Commonwealth.”
President,
General Motors Export Co.,
N.Y.
■IB
wm
g&Aafc*
s
m
■I
ill
JAMES D. MOONEY.
Hill
■■
■
.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All yon have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell’' or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Ex-Digger (Vie.), clerical and motor-driving exp.,
wants position.—9B43.
Nurse-housekeeper, Sydney, wants daily occupation.
—9901.
Two tradesmen (N.S.W.), exp. in building repairs
and renovations, want work. —9863.
Scotch engineer (42), N.S.W., first-class B.T.
certificate, eight years’ exp. in charge of power
stations, used to tropics, wants employment anywhere.
Refs.—9B7l.
To buy “Such Is Life,” by Tom Collins, and
Bui.ljETlN’s “History of Botany 8ay.”—9854.
To buy “Power-plant Testing” (third edition), by
James Moyer, and “Engineering of Power-plants,”
by Fernald and 0rr0k.—9867.
To get in touch with suppliers of smoked mutton
hams suitable for export.—9Bs7.
To get in touch with small amateur theatrical
societies, with view to exchanging information and
ideas. —9922.
Whereabouts of William and Walter Gordon?—
9921.
Words of verse “The Call of the Bush,” which
describes how an Australian family in England pines
to go back. —9884.
To buy war medals. —9937.
Information Sought.
On what ruling did the Governor of N. 8.
Wales rely when he dismissed the Lang Gov-
ernment without reference to higher autho-
rity?—-9409.
Sir Michael Hicks-Beach, then Secretary
for the Colonies, laid it down clearly in a
communication to the Governor-General of
Canada in 1879 that the Governor of any
British Colony “has an unquestionable con-
stitutional right to dismiss his Ministers if
from any cause he feels it incumbent upon
himself to do so.” That doctrine was not
challenged while N. S. Wales was a colony,
and there has been no alteration of the
State’s Constitution specifically removing
the implied power.
(1) What Australians who served in the
8. African war are entitled to wear the
King's Medal? (2) If a soldier served with
two different contingents , say, the 2nd _ and
the sth, is he entitled to wear the King's
as well as the Queen’s Medal? (3) Is the
decoration for officers only?- —9443.
(1) and (3) The King’s South Africa
Medal was issued to officers and other ranks
who were actually serving in South Africa
on or after- the Ist January, 1902, and on
that date had completed 18 months’ war ser-
vice, or subsequently completed such service
before the Ist June, 1902. (2) A member
who served in two or more contingents would
be eligible for the award of the King’s
Medal provided he fulfilled the above-men-
tioned conditions. The Queen’s South
Africa Medal was awarded to all persons
who served in the campaign of 1899-1902.
(1) J am a maker of catgut in a small
way. How can I rid- the finished product
of a muddy discoloration? (2) I make the
catgut from pig’s intestines. Is that what
it is usually made from? (3) Arc there any
manufacturers of catgut in Australia ? —
9506.
(1) It can be avoided by strict cleanli-
ness in all operations so as to avoid bac-
terial decomposition. With this end in view
dried intestines and strings are sulphured,
an action which also bleaches them. (2)
Usually made from the intestines of sheep.
(3) Several in the Eastern States.
(1) When and where was Marie Tempest
horn and educated? (2) llow many times
lias she married? (3) Where, when and in
what role did she make her debut? (4)
When did she take the name-part in
"Dorothy” and how long was its season?
(5) Did she ever sing in opera? (6) When
did she renounce musical for comedy parts?
(7) Most popular rdles? —9710.
(1) Born London, July 15, 1864; edu-
cated in a Belgian convent, and musically
in Paris and London. (2) Three. (3)
As Fiametta in “Boccaccio,” London
Comedy, May 30, 1885. (4) On Feb. 19,1887,
after Marion Hood had played* it five
months; the run closed in April, 1889, after
931 consecutive performances (a comic-
opera record). (5) Yes, in the U.S.A. as
Carmen, Manon and Mignon. (6) At the
close of “San Toy” in 1900. (7) Popular
in almost anything: but, judging by revivals,
“Becky Sharp” (title-role), Kitty (“Marriage
of Kitty”), Molly (“At the Barn”) and
Annabelle (“Good Gracious, Annabelle!”).
What is the Judas-tree, and how did it
get its name? —97ss.
It is a name applied to Cercis siliquas-
trum, a handsome tree general in Southern
Europe. In spring it is covered with a pro-
fusion of purplish pink flowers, which
appear before the leaves. The flowers have
an agreeable acid taste, and are eaten mixed
with salad or made into fritters. It is a
legend that Judas Iscariot hanged himself
on a tree of this species.
I have made my son executor* of my will,
and since then he has gone bankrupt. Can
he act as executor before he gets his clear-
ance? —9721.
It has been held that the Court cannot
refuse to grant probate of a will to a
person appointed executor on account of
his bankruptcy, but it has, where circum-
stances called for it, controlled the bankrupt
by the appointment of a receiver, and, where
action at law became necessary to recover
effects in the estate, it compelled the executor
to allow his name to be used. On the whole,
it is wiser to appoint another executor.
(1) What are the largest islands in the
British Solomons? (2) Most important
town in the group? (3) Area and popula-
tion of the group? (4) What are the larg-
est islands in the portion of the Solomon
Islands held by Australia? (5) Most
important town in that group? (6) Area of
Aust. territory in the Solomons? —9748.
(1) Guadalcanal, Malaita, San Cristoval,
Ysabel, Choiseul, New Georgia, Kolom-
bangara, Vella Lavella, Vanguna, Rennell,
Shortland and Florida. (2) Tulagai. (3)
Area, 14,600 sq. miles; population (1960),
whites, 447; natives, about 150,000; Asiatics
and others, 256. (4) Bougainville and
Buka. (5) Kieta. (6) 3400 square miles.
(1) What is koumiss and how is it made?
(2) Is kefir similar? —9770.
(1) A fermented alcoholic beverage pre-
pared from milk, generally mares’ or camels’
milk, by adding to fresh milk a small quan-
tity of the finished article. (2) Yes. It is
usually prepared from cows’ milk, and the
fermentation is brought about by the so-
called kefir grains (derived from a plant).
Iloto to play heartsette. Is it anything
like hearts, which I can play?- -9747.
Played in the same way as hearts, with
the addition of a “widow” and an arrange-
ment by which the game can be adapted for
any number' of players from three to six.
When there are three br four players
the deuce of spades is taken out; the full
pack is used when there are five or six.
When there are three players 16 cards are
dealt to each; when there are four, 12;
when five, 10; and when six, eight, one at
a time. The remaining cards are left face
downwards on the table, and form the
“widow,” which must be gathered up and
added to the hand of the player who takes
the first trick immediately that trick is
complete, he alone being allowed to see
what it contains. The game then proceeds
as in hearts; payments are made to the
pool for all hearts taken in, and the pool is
then won, divided, or left to form a jack.
The chief difference between the two games
is that in heartsette the other players do
not know whether the winner of the first
trick is loaded or not, and only he knows
how many or what hearts are to be played.
(1) Is the Moor double-keyboard[ piano
recently on show in Sydney recognised by
leading musicians as a meritorious invention?
(2) Is.it manufactured by reputable makers?
(3) Has any great pianist adopted it for
recitals? (4) Name and address of the in-
ventor, and what nationality is he? —9746.
(1) A very appreciative and commenda-
tory notice of the invention appears in the
latest edition of “Grove’s Dictionary of
Music,” written by Prof. D. Tovey, who says
it “opens up a vast new technique for .study
and exploration.” Many of the world’s lead-
ing pianists and composers have expressed
a similar opinion. (2) The instrument
shown in Sydney is by Beehstein, a firm of
the very highest reputation. (3) Baikhaus,
Godowsky and others have experimented with
it privately. The only recitalists we know
of who have used it in public are Winifred
Christie (Madame Moor) and Winifred
Burston. (4) Emanuel Moor, the inventor,
was born in Budapest. He died last year.
I have started painting in oils. What is
the correct order in which to lay out a
palette in this medium? —9744.
The palette is held in the left hand, lay-
ing along the forearm to the elbow. Work-
ing backward from the thumb the order is
as follows: White, deep cadmium, light cad-
mium, yellow ochre, French blue, cobalt,
alizarin crimson, light red, raw sienna, burnt
sienna, green, raw umber and black. For
landscape work the order is usually white,
cobalt, French blue, alizarin crimson, light
red, yellow ochre, cadmium, green, burnt
sienna, raw umber and black.
What is the difference between Sovietism
and Communism, and who was the founder
or originator of both?— 9B42.
Lenin, who shaped the development of the
early stages of Russia’s attempt to operate
Communistic government, seems to have been
influenced most by the teachings of Karl
Marx. Communism, considered as an indict-
ment of the capitalistic system on the ground
that it is anti-social and enslaves the prole-
tariat, is a political theory as old as history.
Its essence is the negation of property rights,
a principle to which the founders of the Rus-
sian Soviet Republic have not found it prac-
ticable to rigidly adhere.
Is it possible to vary the capacity of a
fixed condenser by introducing different
materials between the plates? —97o4.
Yes. The capacity of a condenser varies
with the nature of the insulating material
placed between the positive and negative
plates. If an air dielectric condenser has
a certain capacity, its capacity will be
doubled or trebled by filling the air space
between the plates with ebonite. If mica
is used as a dielectric, the capacity will
increase by five times; castor oil nine times;
transformer oil two and a half times, assum-
ing that the distance between the plates
remains the same. If the distance is halved,
the capacity will be doubled for any given
dielectric.
(1) How was the Australian terrier'
evolved? (2) What are its distinguishing
characteristics ? —9581.
(1) Probably from the Yorkshire crossed
with the Scotch terrier. (2) Typically
rather low set, compact and active; hair
of wiry texture, coat about long;
weight, 101 b. or 111 b.; head long, with
powerful jaw; eyes small, keen and dark
color; ears small, set high on skull, pricked
or dropped towards the front; free from
long hairs; back straight; forelegs straight,
well set under body; slight feather to knees;
black toenails; hocks of hindlegs slightly
bent; thighs strong; color (a) blue or grey
body, tan on legs and face; top not blue or
silver, ( b ) clear dandy or red.
What is “ Wilson’s Rule” for calculating
the bursting pressure of a steam boiler. >
9705. . ,
To find the bursting pressure in pounds per
square inch, divide the thickness of the shell
in sixteenths of an inch by the diameter or
the shell in quarter feet and multiply the
result by 1097 for single-riveted wrought
iron, 1372 for double-riveted wrought iron,
1723 for single-riveted steel and 2156 for
double-riveted steel. For example, a 4ft.
internal diameter boiler _ shell, Ijn. thick
(double-riveted wrought iron t will have a
bursting pressure of 6 multiplied by lolZ,
divided by 16, or 5141 b. per square inch.
(1) What do weaver finches feed on? (2)
Do they congregate in large flocks? (o)
What sort of songsters are they? (4) What
sort of nests do they make? (5) How many
eggs does the female lay and what color?
9735. . „ ,
(1) Small seeds, especially grass-seeds. (2)
Many species do, especially in Northern Aus-
tralia. (3) Their notes consist mainly ot
chirpings and twitterings; they are not song-
sters like many of the true finches. (4)
Their nests are bulky, untidy structures of
grass, domed, with the entrance at the side,
and are placed in bushes. (5) Five or more
pure white eggs.
Value of threepenny diadem stamp of New
South Wales? —9691. #
Gatalogue value varies from od. to ±l2o
according to perforation and watermark, the
imperforate copies being scarce. If your
stamp is perforated it is probably not worth
more than a few pence.
(1) What preparation is used on railway
tarpaulins and how is it mixed and applied?
(2) Where could I purchase a railway tar-
paulin or one of the same quality? —9643.
(1) Take 4oz. common yellow soap, shave
it up, and dissolve it in enough turpentine to
cover it. Stand the vessel containing the
soap and turpentine in another vessel of
boiling water, and stir till dissolved. Heat
one quart boiled linseed oil in a tin, and
when it is very hot, remove from the fire and
stir in the soap mixture. The tarpaulin
should have been wetted and hung up to
drain. When it no longer drips, but is still
damp, lay it out flat, and paint on the dress-
ing as hot as possible with a stiff brush.
Allow to dry thoroughly, then give another
coat. Apply further coats if required, allow-
ing it to dry well between each. (2) Walder’s
Tarpaulins, Ltd., 227 Sussex-street, Sydney.
Recipe for office paste which resembles a
solid cream and smells of almonds? —9617.
Boil together half-teaspoon powdered alum
and half-pint water. Mix 1 tablespoon of plain
flour to a smooth paste with a little cold
water, and stir into the boiling liquid. When
clear, remove from the fire and add half-tea-
spoon essence of' cloves. Bottle in wide-
mouthed jars and cover from dust. Use very
sparingly and spread thinly. The “almond”
smell comes from the clove essence, which is
included as an antiseptic and preservative.
Not being a doctor, is it illegal for me to
advertise for sale a cure for a prevalent com-
plaint?—973B. . .
That will depend upon the composition
of your “cure,” the label and the claims
made for it. Get a copy of the N.S.W. Pure
Food Act 1908, and Regulations from Gov-
ernment Printing Office, Sydney, 2s.
What qualifications must a man desirous
of becoming a pilot in the Q’land Naviga-
tion Service possess? What examinations
must he pass? Age limits? Commencing
salary? —97sB.
He must possess a foreign-going masters
certificate, a medical certificate of good health
and physical fitness, and should not be more
than 45. Practical experience in the naviga-
tion of the port at which the vacancy exists
is taken into consideration when dealing with
applications. Salary varies according to
port. No examinations.
What have been the lowest known readings
of the barometer and dates (1) in Victoria?
(2) In Australia? (3) Elsewhere? —9771.
(It 28.942 inches, December 14, 1563, at
Melbourne. (2) 27.55, January 21, 1918, at
Mackay (Q.) ; cyclone. (3) 27.02, in a
typhoon in the China Sea, August 2, 1891.
What are the flag and colors of the League
of Nations? —9767.
The League of Nations has neither flag
nor colors. It has an emblem —a map of
the world (in oval), surrounded by 55 stars
(one for each member-State of the League).
The colors of this emblem are dark blue and
white.
How to make an impedence type of wave-
trap for suppressing interference on broad-
cast wave-bands? —9915.
Wind 65 turns of No. 22d.c.c. wire on a
2|in. diameter cardboard former, and connect
the two ends to a .0005M.F.D. variable con-
denser. The aerial is now connected to the
fixed condenser-plates and the receiver to the
moving plates. The coil and condenser may
be placed in a small wooden box with
bakelite front panel holding the aerial and
receiver terminals and condenser-dial.
(Ij A reply to a Service question states
that the ancient Romans made great use of
concrete. How. did they get on without Port-
land cement, which I understand is a fairly
modern invention? (2) Photographs of
Roman ruins show that walls and domes
were made of bricks. Why didn't they make
them of concrete? (3) Anything known
about the Roman “mix,” and the size and
material of stuff with which they made their
concrete? —9939.
Cl) The Roman builders used a hydraulic
cement quite as strong as Portland, made
of pozzolana, which looks like red, sandy
earth, and exists in vast beds round and
under Rome. This was mixed with lime.
(2) They did. The bricks were used merely
as facings for concrete, and domes and vaults
were cast in semi-fluid concrete. When set
these had the advantage that they sat like a
rigid lid, and did not exercise the lateral
thrust on the walls that a brick or masonry
construction would have entailed. (3) Pro-
portions not known; probably they varied
according to the class of work. For filling,
pieces of rock, lava, broken bricks, marble
and all the refuse of a mason’s yard were
used, in lumps about the size of a man’s fist.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of “Abbott-tracks” in Will
Ogilvie’s poem “The Bushman’s Book” :
He sees the well-filled purses
From Abbott-tracks like wires?
—9756.
Brief Answers.
D.H.S.: The correct rendering of the Irish
oath is: “I do solemnly swear true faith and allegi-
ance”. .. .E.W.: (1). Twelve months, studying three
hours a day. (2) Vacancies are not frequent. Mini-
mum salary is £330 ; average about £450. (3) The
N.S.W. Local Government clerks* certificate is not
interchangeable with any other State’s H.E.: Can’t
say. Get a copy of the Restaurant, etc., Employees’
(State) Award from the Govt. Printer, Sydney, 6d.
....W.P.: Write to Australian Cement Manufac-
turers’ Association, 14 Spring-street, Sydney, for
leaflet on cement tanks 8.A.8.; Legal Aid Office,
Queen’s-square, Sydney... .8.R.0.: Notices of that
nature are not admissible in the “Wants” column.
C.H.: Applications should be made to the
shipping cos N.D.: Get in touch with Mick
Simmons, Ltd., Sydney... .A.S.: The lady was at
one time attached to the Vic. Dept, of Agriculture.
A letter care of that department should reach her...
H.L.P.: The maximum rate of interest that local
authorities in Q’land can charge on overdue rates
is 8 p.c. W.D.: “Hoyle’s Games Modernised,” by
Lawrence H. Dawson, obtainable all leading book-
sellers. .. .A.J.H.; “Public Speaking for Business
Men,” by Wicks (10s.), and “How to Become an
Effective Public Speaker,” by Bottomley (2s. 3d.).
....T.M.: The symptoms described are not typical
of any particular disease. Get in touch with the
local stock inspector... .N.M.: It is desirable for
the plot to be made rabbit-proof and an early plough-
ing should be carried out as soon as possible. A
leaflet on potato-growing, obtainable from the Dept,
of Agriculture, Sydney, will be found helpful....
P. J.F.: The principal naval stations are: Rosyth,
Chatham, Portsmouth, Devonport, Gibraltar, Malta,
Aden, Trineomali, Singapore, Hong Kong, Sydney,
Auckland, Esquimalt, Halifax, Bermuda and Simons-
town. Coal and oil fuel can be obtained at most of
these stations... .G.T.: Would be better able to
advise if we could inspect some of his work....
A.W.N.: Write Bernard Cronin, 398 Flinders-lane,
Melbourne... .R. 5.8.: The Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research, Melbourne, can furnish full par-
ticulars ... .Dick I.: On August 27, 1931, an Austrian
schoolteacher, Karl Naumestnik, shod with water-
skis 6ft. long and Ift. wide, walked from Cape
Gris-Nez across the Channel to Shakspeare Beach,
near Dover, in eight hours.... F.T.: Eighty natives
murdered the crew of the schooner Peri, which
was taking them to Fiji. The schooner drifted for
five weeks, 1800 miles, to the Q’land coast, where
H.M.S. Basilisk rescued 13 starving survivors on
Feb. 5, 1871, landing them at Cardwell... .R.T.:
Lesseps was attached to La Perouse’s expedition
Appointed to carry back to France the
various documents and charts which were
the results of the first part of that voyage,
he travelled overland across Siberia, whilst
La Perouse went on with his expedition to Australia
and to ultimate disaster among the South Sea
Islands.... E.L.S.: A. S. Meek’s “A Naturalist in
Cannibal Land” is worth 7s. 6d.; Frederick O’Brien’s
“White Shadows in the South Seas,” £1 10s.; and
E. S. Armstrong’s “The History of the Melanesian
Mission,” 15s N.G.S.: (1) Doubtful, but im-
possible to say without seeing it. (2) Lyster
Ormsby, 233 Oastlereagh-street; or J. R. Tyrrell,
143 Castlereagh-street—both Sydney. (3) Try
rubbing very lightly with a cloth wrung out in
petrol, or sponge with lukewarm lux and dry in
the air, but out of the sun L. 8.: Marangaroo,
little blue flowers; Tomingley, the death-adder;
Boorong, big rock; Cannonbar, place of the shingle-
back lizard... .W.C.0.D.: Get in touch with the
Secretary, Prisoners’ Aid Association of N.S.W., 3
Richmond-terrace, Sydney... .C.K.: Of the 1226
N.S.W. accidents (to 963 males and 263 females)'
that had fatal results in 1930, 664 happened outside
the metropolitan area....L.L.: J. C. Williamson was
born at Mercer, Pennsylvania (U.S.A.), on August
26, 1845. He started his stage career at 16, and
came to Australia in 1874... .C.McN.: In N.S.W.
there were 164 private and 77 commercial licensed
aeroplane pilots in year ending June 30, 1931. In
that year approximately i,640,130 miles were flown
during 33,383 flights, which took 18,933 flying hours.
K.J.D.: “Why Editors Regret,” by Gerald Dillon,
Angus and Robertson, 2s. 6d D.V.: Broken Hill
has a population of 22,990 11.J.8.: Write Ferrier
and Dickinson, 26 Clarence-street, Sydney G.M.:
(1) and (2) An official statement regarding Mount
Wandoo appears in the April issue of the Q’land
Government “Mining Journal.” (3), (4) and (5) No.
....A.R.N.: (1) and (2) No figures for N.S.W.;
Australia, 220. (3) From automobile accidents,
966 ; from aeroplane accidents, 18. (4) 579,782,
including motor-cycles, in the whole of the Com-
monwealth... .J.H. M.: Write C. J. V. Weaver, 11
Carlisle-street, Leichhardt G.R.: It would be to
his financial advantage to remain here C.F.C.: A
Diesel-engined tractor is manufactured by Ronald-
son Bros, and Tippett, 628 Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne. In addition the “Mercedes Benz” Diesel
tractor and the “Lanz Bulldog” semi-Diesel trac-
tor have been sold on the Australian market....
W.A.W.: No record of previous question. Repeat
the request R.R.: Best plan would be to adver-
tise E.K.P.: We do not know the body. If you
send us some of their literature we will examine
it and advise y0u....J.5.D.; The use of anti-
tuberculosis vaccines is only in the experimental
stage, and the efficacy of them is as yet open to
question. In view of recent researches doubt, has
been cast on the value of the treatment mentioned.
... .Lin.: Application might be made to the Home of
Peace for the Dying, Marrickville (Church of Eng-
land), or the Hospice for the Dying, Darlinghurst
(Roman Catholic). In addition there are institutions
under the control of the Director-General of Public
Health to which such cases are admitted. Application
should be made to the Hospital Admission Depot,
Macquarie-street, Sydney.... J.L.A.: Get. in touch
with Dalgety and Co., 291 Elizabeth-street, Bris-
bane 8.N.P.: Copies of the report and all rela-
tive correspondence have been supplied by the. Aust.
Woolgrowers’ Council to graziers’ and farmers’ associ-
ations throughout Australia. You should be able
to peruse the reports on application to the Pastor-
alists’ Association of W.A., the Primary Producers’
Association of W.A., or the Southern Woolgrowers’
Association of W.A R.J.C.: He has no connection
with the firm mentioned... .J.A.0.D.: Would have
to see some of their literatu’• before advising
P.S.W.: Can’t trace any su ’ body... .G.P.: (1)
Get in touch with Hugh 1. Taster, Buckingham
Downs, Dajarra (Q.). (2) Edwards and Co., Mel-
bourne, and Andrew and Gabb, Sydney M.E.R.:
Export of fruit to M.L. is subject to regulations
imposed by the M.L. authorities, and requires
special forms of certificate and other special con-
ditions, The regulations under the Commonwealth
Commerce (Trade Descriptions) Act also apply;
Further particulars from Export and Import Branch,
Dept, of Agriculture, Day-street, Sydney M.MI:
Write East Sydney Technical College, Darlinghurst.
A.S.: Write Real Estate Institute of N.S.W.,
Soa Martin-place, Sydney.... D.R.8.; A Judge or
magistrate should not actively participate in any
phase of politics... .J.H.M.: (1) 4d, to Is. A
variety on very white paper is priced at 16s. (2)
Id. (3) Stanley Gibbons Catalogue, from J. H.
Smyth, 121 a Castlereagh-street, Sydney. British
Empire, 155.; Foreign Countries, 225.; Whole World,
35s (Many others mailed.)


EXPLOSIVES
AKL KINDS STOCKED.
Sole Manufacturers of
REN3ROCK
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary
goods by rail or steamer at
usual rates of freight.
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers of all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast-
ing Machines, Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Send Your Tyres to “Southern Cross'for Retreading
We send C.O.D. to any part of N.S.W.
FLAT RATE RETREADING.
All car sizes
17/6
All car sizes
(With supertough Rubber Retreads with
popular diamond pattern for long life and wear.)
22/6 ■ . .
All truck sizes
30/-
Also full stocks of new tyres and tubes, also J. 0.8. tyres.
Send them along to-day. Write or ’phone.
’PHONE 81110. ’PHONE 81110.
SOUTHERN CROSS TYRES, LTD.,
75 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius .. 10,000 tons, June 13
fThemistocles 12,500 ~ Sept. 6
*Nestor . • 14,500 ~ Oct. 18
JCeramic . . 18,500 ~ Oct. 25
•First class only. tFirst and third class,
tCabin class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt # Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
ABORIGINALITIES
“Laloki”: The medical officer was making
a visit of inspection in the village of Hanua-
bada, near Port Moresby, and was con-
fronted by a deaf and dumb native. That
native had been as garrulous and able to
hear as well as any other Papuan a week
or so previously, so the m.o. inquired of the
village constable how he became affected.
“Well,” answered that gentleman cautiously,
“I understand it was a punishment for
blasphemy. The man would not listen to
the talk of Tau, the missionary, and one
day, in Tail’s presence, he tore a page from
the Bible to use as a cigarette-paper. So
Tau said he would ask God to strike him
deaf and dumb. And God did.” The m. 0.,
who realised he was up against a case of
pourri-pourri, sent the sufferer to hospital
and there gave him the only possible treat-
ment for his trouble, counter pourri-pourri;
and was gratified to see an immediate re-
sponse. In fact, so sedulously did he cast
his spells that the man was completely ctired
in the course of a day. Later the m.o.
learned that the pious Tau had once sought
the afflicted one’s sister in marriage, and met
with a refusal. Tau no longer interprets
the Gospel in Hanuabada.
* ❖ ❖ *
“Viau”: “Tomyodai” (B. 11/5/’32) says
Mrs. Drake-Brockman was all wrong in “Blue
North,” and m.-0.-p. shell cannot live
on a sand bottom. A shilling a shell for every
gold-lip I dug out of sand bottoms amongst
the reefs off part of the New Britain coast
in 1928 would enable me to laugh at the de-
pression. The same rate for black-lip shell
would keep me in smokes for a long time.
Having read that the Germans had taken
thousands’ worth of pearls from the district.
I scratched about while waiting for a boat to
pick me up, and, knowing nothing of pearl-
ing, contented myself with the shell that was
easiest to get hold of. All were quite healthy,
of fair size, and were usually submerged in
the sand to about one-half or more of their
depth. Huge iridescent mussel-shells were
there in plenty and were completely buried
in the sand.
“Gulliver”: Thorny is the track of the
rural pedagogue. I discovered in the course
of my duties in a Westralian country school
that most of my charges were fixed in the
belief that the sky was a solid roof and
that the stars were merely evidence of bad
workmanship. I introduced a short but com-
prehensive course of elementary astronomy,
establishing that beyond the earth (which was
round) there was just space, more or less
MORE MUSCULAR RELIGION.
LOCAL PREACHER : “The words av the text ’port which I shall base my discoorse to our
footballers this morning are from the eighth chapter of Matthew and the 32nd
verse , ‘Into the swine.’”
punctuated with planets and stars. All 12
of the school seemed to accept this find-
ing, and, justly proud of my achievement, I
was preparing lessons on the latest develop-
ments in modern science when a “Please
explain” came from the Education Depart-
ment. Enclosed was a letter in which an
irate parent demanded to know, (a) why an
avowed atheist should be allowed to teach
in a Government school, and.(b) how long
he was to be allowed to continue.
“ Murrungurry ” :
Nothing in abo.
customs is more
closely guarded than
the secret of -the in-
itiation rites. No
woman is allowed to
know it, and the
punishment for
breaking the law in
the old days was
sudden death. Old
Ben, a big black-
fellow who worked
on a cattle station
on the Manning
River, used to tell
of an erring couple
who belonged to his
tribe when he was
a boy. One of them
was Crammering
Micky, noted for his
th i e ving- proclivi-
ties and also for
loquacity in camp-
fire councils. His
gin, a lady of a pry-
ing nature, wheedled
the secret of the bora
from him. and after-
wards talked about
it to her sister?.
When that became
known to the men,
one of them took her
for a walk near Man-
ning Brush, ostensibly
to look for something,
but hours afterwards
he returned to the
camp with her skill,
which was exhibited as a warning to inquisi-
tive wives. Meanwhile, Micky had gone hunt-
ing with another blackfellow. The latter got
a ’possum, and’Micky was asked to make a
fire to roast it. When he bent down to
light the fire, the executioner split his
head with a tomahawk.
* * *
“Darby” : A few seasons ago I was clear-
ing wild pigs off some back-country sheep
stations in Marlborough (M.L.). The
porkers were pretty numerous and the job
was worth while, despite the rough country,
At the end of the contract I was puzzled to
find that, though my half of the block was
reckoned the better prospect and I knew
how hard I had grafted, the old-timer who
had the other half-block turned in over 120
tails more than my tally. I learnt his secret
later, when a deer-culler was charged with
defrauding the Government of a considerable
sum of bounty money paid for deer tails. A
piece of hot wire laid along a strip of pig-
skin causes the strip to fold neatly over the
wire. If mutton-fat, melted in a pot con-
veniently near, is run into the space left
when the iron is withdrawn only an expert or
one wise to the game can detect that the
object isn’t a tail when the time comes to
check the tally.
* * *
“Wook” : The tallest orchid ever recorded
flourishes in far southern Queensland. A
specimen bearing hundreds of pretty flowers
was found to be 45ft. in height. One spike
of flowers alone was found to measure
nearly six feet in length and _ about three
feet in width. This plant, which grows in
an almost inaccessible gorge, belongs to the
family Galeola foliata, and the flowers are
golden yellow with a white, pink-dashed
labellum. Until the discovery of the Queens-
land giant it was believed that the height
limit of orchids was 30ft.
* * * *
“Coral Island”: There is a _ good solid
reason for the regulations governing the size
of trochus-shell, at which “C. Coral had a
tilt (B. 6/4/’32). A trade worth £70,000
per annum was being wiped out by trochns-
hunters who would persist in taking
immature shell. Moorhouse, M.Sc., Marine
Biologist of Queensland, has conclusively
shown that trochus is mature only when
to 3in. in diameter and that it grows
at the rate of lin. per year. It w T as there-
fore time to prohibit “chicken” shell-collect-
ing, so a regulation making 2Jin. the mini-
mum shell was brought into force on the
first day of this year. “C. Coral” can help
a good cause by making the truth known
through Jimmy Susu to the natives.
“Nerraw”: A strange combat was wit-
nessed by a Gayndah (Q.j farmer while
working in a shed on his farm. Entering
through the open doorway, a 10-inch brown
snake crawled across the room and coiled
its length around the leg of a table, thus
breaking portion of a web spun by a red-
backed spider. Red-back came out and fast-
ened itself on to the head of the reptile.
Writhing and coiling in desperation, the snake
sought to dislodge his foe, but to no avail.
The liome-wrecker’s struggles became less
and less potent, and in a few minutes ceased
altogether, as Red-back’s poison took its toll.
IF I BUT DARED!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The same small houses, smug and spruce,
Run up and down
The city street where I sojourn,
Run up and down,
With walls of white, and roofs of red,
And bands of brown.
There’s Number One by Number Two,
Then Number Three,
With Number Four and Number Five
To screech at me.
Beneath the hills the old farmhouse
That haunts my dreams
lues basking bright in homely peace,
And haunts my dreams,
Soft-smiling in the summer sun’s
Rich golden gleams.
Oh! there my soul might wander free,
With room to grow,
Not cramp’d and dull’d, in tune with homes
Set in a row.
Violas, purple, gold or blue,
Run up and down
The trim and tidy beds I tend,
Run up and down
In order’d rows, with ne’er a gap;
And pansies brown
Stand soldierwise in straightest line,
While round beds three
Concentric rings of color show
That shriek at me.
Where baby brooks slip burbling by,
All silver-sweet,
And gurgling down their gullies glide,
All silver-sweet,
And sing a sunny song,' and smile
Fern-fronds to meet —
Oh! there, in Nature’s garden wild,
My feet would stray,
Where mating birds make melody
The livelong day.
The children in my classes sit
All in a row,
Small girls, tall girls, shy girls, sly girls,
All in a row,
With pencils, books and watchful eyes
THE FIRST PERAMBULATOR.
Arranged just so.
It’s “Oh, may I?” and “If you please,”
So meek and mild,
With every girl intent to seem
A model child.
But while they drink my wisdom in,
Attentive all,
And sit there trim and orderly,
Attentive all,
I look them o’er with a secret sigh,
Big girls and small.
Oh ! give me any naughty child —
Poor spinster lone! —
Some saucy imp with sticky hands,
But all my own!
Oh ! if I dared but dash the ink
All up the row,
And stamp my foot, and shake my fist
All down the row,
And bang the door of a smug, small house,
And gaily go
Out where the old farmhouse smiles soft,
And, silver-sweet,
The gurgling runnels whisper peace,
My own I’d greet,
My babe I’d meet!
QUEENSLAND.
SHEENA WEST.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Rvan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra. (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
...
6
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
„iih new
rinjifastener
PRICE-
mm MMrßflSßSuri
in. Queen St. Brisbane
mm'
r H4ND
SKIN BELT
/yx'
'■Hihai” : “Kuipaua” (B. 20/4/’32) slips
a bit when he tells of women being rescued
trom a Papuan lakatoi which was breaking
up m heavy weather. By the rules of the
business, which are as immutable as the
laws of the Modes and Persians, no women
are allowed to go on the voyage' to the west,
enough they take part in the ceremonial
nances and songs performed on the cumber-
some crafts prior to starting.* The initiator
nt the annual trip for sago was the legen-
dary Edai Si a bo, a malformed little Motuan
P°°r as only to be able to get a wife
similar, to himself, a cripple whom no one
else wanted. During a season when the
crops had failed he was out fishing when a
seagod took him overboard, down to his
cavern, and gave him some lovely new kai-kai.
He was so entranced with this that he begged
bis. host to tell him what it. was, and the
amiable deity told him not only that, but
where it. could be obtained, gave him instruc-
tions how 7 to build a lakatoi, and laid down
ceremonial to the minutest detail, obedience
to which w 7 ould ensure success in the ven-
ture and a safe return. Then he packed
him off ’to tell the good new r s to the home
folks. As they were all on famine rations,
a number agreed to give it a trial, and, build-
ing the first lakatoi, sailed away into the
unknown. The adventurers were so long
gone that their wives gave them up for lost,
took new partners and let the sacred beacon
fire.s die out; only Edai Siabo’s despised wife
remained faithful, and kept her tiny fire alight.
Guided by it, the argonauts safely made
harbor, when there was a panic amongst the
faithless women, and not a few broken heads.
Nowadays, when rice and biscuits can be
obtained at the stores, the necessity to pro-
vide for famine times is not so great, and
yearly the number of lakatoi,s dwindles; the
glamor has to a great extent departed from
the voyage, though sporadic efforts are made
to. revive its former glories. Edai Siabo is
still a tribal hero, and anyone with a Motu
crew. may. expect them to break into song
in bis praise at any old time.
* * * *
“Weeloona”: The tragic death of two pros-
pectors near Windage, SO miles north of
Wiluna (W.A.), 18 months ago bears out
“E.S.S.’s” contention that (blood-drinking
does , not relieve but rather accentuates the
agonies of thirst. Harry Dyer and Lauri
Rauni were two' days’ absent from their
camp when their companions, after fruit-
lessly searching for the overdue men, dashed
into Wiluna for the aid of the police and
a black-tracker. Following the wanderings
of the missing men the searchers came upon
the body of a kangaroo shot by them. None
of the flesh had been taken, but it was evi-
dent that some of the blood had been drunk.
That this availed little was apparent when
the men’s bodies were discovered four days
after their departure from the camp. They
had shot themselves rather than become a
prey to' the madness which they must have
felt approaching.
“Pioneer”: I wonder how
many Australians have eaten
flying-fox. I have, and found
it about the most delicious
food I have ever tasted. The
first time it was offered to
me —cooked native fashion —
1 should certainly have shied
off it had I known what it
was. The. repugnance people
have to flying-fox is because
of the smell. That disappears
when he is skinned and
dressed. The flesh is white
and nicer than chicken, more
tender and juicy. If the pre-
judice against it could be over-
come (and one trial would do
that) it would provide a cheap
and acceptable variation in
diet for many. Indeed, a pro-
fitable industry might be
created by preserving and can-
ning it.
* * *
“Mulgo” : A shower of small
fish or frogs is not an uncom-
mon phenomenon in parts of
Queensland during thunder-
storms. About midway be-
tween Charleville and Adavale
I rode through a trekking
swarm of small brown frogs on
a narrow, timbered flat. There
were millions of them, all going
in one direction, though the
procession was not more than a
quarter of a mile wide. A man
who lived on the edge of the
flat told me that they had
fallen in a storm the previous
afternoon. He had been out
after horses, and was aston-
ished to find himself being
pelted with the things. “I
don’t mind frogs,” lie said, “I rather like
’em ; but when they come flyin’ at you from
the clouds, an’ droppin’ down the neck o’
your shirt, like animated ice, it’s time to
go home.”
* * * •};
“Nyanza”: The crocodile has never been
popular anywhere, but a recent discovery in
Uganda has lowered the beast even further
in public estimation. The discovery is that
the croc, is the chief food supply, and in
some instances the only one, of the dreaded
tSetse-fly, the carrier of sleeping sickness.
The fly is never found far from water, and
some attempt has been made to eradicate it
by clearing the waterfronts of any native
population and of the thick undergrowth in
which it delights to dwell. The crocodile’s
blood is the attraction for the fly, so now
war is to be declared on the crocodile itself.
Not only is a bonus to be given for the de-
struction of the brutes, but for the locating
of their nests and the gathering of the
eggs.
GOOD GROUNDS FOR ANNOYANCE.
“If you can’t tell this pfeller’s eye from, a plurry fly, it’s ’bout time your plurry tail
got some sense knocked into its plurry head.”
ENVY.
“Gawd, matey, I wisht I had your job I goiter crawl through the blinkin’ roof to
get out o’ my missus’s way.”
“Krait”: Recent references to the pre-
paration of anti-venine for snakebite in
Commonwealth laboratories remind me that,
in addition to finding a serum which is effica-
cious against the poison of single species, in-
tense efforts are being made to find a uni-
versal serum which will counteract the venom
of all poisonous snakes. The job is a
slow and expensive one —one dose of tiger-
snake serum costs about £25, for instance —
and begins with the collecting of the various
types of poison. After preliminary experi-
ments with guinea-pigs and other small
deer, horses are inoculated with gradually
increasing doses of the various venoms, this
taking from three to four years. After that
the serum is extracted from the horses’
blood, and fresh tests to ascertain its proper-
ties must be made—and so on, ad infinitum,
as it sometimes appears to the experimenters.
* * *
“E.S.”: A few miles out
from Broken Hill our road took
us close to a soakage that is
known as Jacob’s Well, and a
curious track led us to the spot.
There we found an old man
lying on the sand with an in-
jured hip. He had been thrown
from his horse up the road, and
had crawled there for a drink.
By many old friends, he said,
he had been “last heard of” at
Jacob’s Well. He and several
mates had discovered it in
1575, and he had not been
there for 25 years. The dis-
covery was made by his party
when they were tank-sinking on
Mootooroo, on the S.A. side of
the border, and, being dried out,
were forced to trek to the Bar-
rier Ranges. They were mak-
ing for Campbell’s Creek when
they noticed kangaroos scratch-
ing for a drink at the foot of
a big rock. There they camped
and made the well by sinking a
cask. For several months they
watered 40 bullocks, 12 horses
and a small mob of ration
sheep daily from the soakage.
“That little w 7 ell saved us from
a smash that year,” said the
old chap. “An’ I suppose it’s
saved hundreds since.”
❖ ❖
“Gulliver”: Here’s a tip that
“Gad” might relay to his fel-
low-pedestrians. If swagmen
took the trouble to include a
rabbit-trap in their equipment
it would soon prove worth its
weight in dole tickets. The cost
is roughly Is. 6d., and it weighs
only 14oz. One trap, carefully
set nightly, should average at
least four cotton-tails a week.
During the last six months I
have come in contact with quite
a hundred knights of the road. Not one of
these was enterprising enough to carry a
trap, though some of them carried guns and
one a violin.
“Tano”: The old-time Maori Beat Hie
world in the matter of the great size of the
nets used by him in sea-fishing. Nets over
1000 yards long, requiring upwards of 500
men to manipulate them, were common.
Polack speaks of seine nets “several thousand
feet” in length. Sir Joseph Banks remarks
that the Maoris laughed at the size of the
ship’s “King’s Seine.” Captain Gilbert Mair
described a huge net made in late times by
the Ngati-pikao folk of the Bay of Plenty.
This monstrous affair w T as 2090 yards in
length. The hauling of it and the tremen-
dous catch of fish was a wonderful sight.
These gigantic dragnets w 7 ere called kaharoa
and were constructed in sections. Each
family in a community of several villages
would make a certain length, and then all
the parts would be assembled and fastened
together. The making of such nets was
tapu, and it meant death to any stranger who
approached the place where they were being
fashioned. In taking the nets out for casting,
two canoes 50ft. to 70ft. in length were
used. The paying out was accompanied by
much ritual, chanting and the repeating of
charms.
“Mogul”: Poverty Bay (M.L.) has been
■rudely and frequently shaken during the last
12 months, and some queer psychological
effects are showing up amongst' the residents.
Our neighbor’s 10-year-old boy has developed
a faculty for anticipating the earthquakes.
When a shake is due he gets upset, feels
seedy and can’t sleep. After it is over he
feels all right again. This has occurred so
often that there is no doubt about it. When
the symptoms recur the shake is sure to come
in the course of a few T hours.
“Gumblegubbin” : Most, if not all, of the
precious stones used by jewellers can be found
in Queensland; but excepting opals and sap-
phires, very few prospectors bother to go
after them." The great majority are looking
for gold, for which there is a standard price.
When a prospector gets a bit of gold ho
knows at once what it is worth. But there
is no standard for the sale of the gems, and
the handicap of the gem-miner is that he
never knows the value of what he finds unless
he is an expert, and even then he is at the
mercy of fashion and an ever fluctuating
market. Fortunes have been made from a
single stone, but most often by buyers.
* * * *
“Weka”: Maoriland trout fishermen ‘ are
feeling somewhat sore over the appearance
of a brown trout nearly a yard long and
weighing 251 b. The fish sheds no glory oh
any angler, as it was not caught with rod
and line, but was found stranded on the
banks of the Tongariro River after a flood.
The conservator pronounces, it the heaviest
fish of bis experience, and it heads the list
of authentic catches in putting up a condi-
tion of G 7 out of a possible 70 per pisca-
torial chart. Rotorua claims it for exhibition
purposes. a''


RHEUMATISM
<*?
G
O
N
E
HARRISONS
PILLS
Those twinges in legs, knees and teet, tha;
nagging backache and headache, those puny
eyes—they spell “ u-r-i-c a-c-i-d 1 Get the
acid out by taking Harrison’s Pills. Rebel
follows immediately. Any Chemists, H-
-3- or 5/-. Quick benejit certain !
Rgmovelße QauM / fJ
'"THE only two Australian newspapers
whose reviews of the wonderful
colored picture issue of “The Times
Weekly Edition” were quoted m ‘The
Times” were “The Argus” and
“THE BARRIER MINER,”
one a metropolitan and the other a
provincial daily newspaper.
All the Broken Hill people and the Far West
people are proud to see their own daily paper
thus picked out by “The Thunderer” as repre-
sentative of Australia.
'MEMBER
llBuibieavl m
IRCiUIAJril®»*
Oi
THE PERTH
is one of the foundation members of
the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
ADVERTISE IN A POPULAR
PAPER.
Note how the weekly output has
increased since February last: —
Feb. 7 . . 28,820 Apl. 3 . . 34,250
„ 21 . . 30,600 „ 17 . . 35,590
Mch. 6 .. 31,400 May 1 .. 37,400
~ 20 . . 32,100 „ 15 . . 41,250
An increase in less than four months
of 12,430 copies weekly.
The above figures represent gross circulation,
but it is circulation without unnecessary waste.
The opportunity presents tor advertisers to
book space at no extra charge for the increased
circulation.
We have something to say
about the price of jam!
/
Wd
m
V /
\ l
*
each?
It isn’t the cost of (he Sugar
that makes \am seem dear!
we find people writing m the papers about the prices for jam and
f canned fruits being due to the high cost of sugar. T. hey write without
knowing the facts!
The cost of the sugar in a standard 1 jjrlb. tin of average jam manufactured in
a capital city is 2.9 pence, or barely threepence. Before the war the cost of
the same sugar was 1.8 pence, so that the cost of sugar in a 1 |lb. tin of jam
has “gone up” one penny. But, look you, the price of the jam has “gone
up” from 6d. per tin to per tin! Sugar accounts for one penny of that
but what of the other 3^-d.?
The jam manufacturers are not making bigger profits. The explanation is
that all Australian costs have * gone up. Freights, machinery, cases, wages,
every item that enters into the cost of making jam is “up.” Hence the higher
cost of jam.
With canned fruits the position is even more remarkable. A standard 30oz.
tin of average fruit now contains 0.62 pence worth of sugar if canned m a
capital city. In 1914 the cost of the sugar was 0.37 pence a can, so the
increased cost due to sugar is only one farthing a can.
Who gets the difference? Many people; but you can’t blame us!
inserted bu the*
Su&ar Grouiers of Australia
foir the, information of the S/eople
Persistent and injurious attacks on the Queensland Sugar Industry have
compelled the Industry to defend itself by setting forth the actual truth of its
position.
The Industry earnestly appeals to the Australian people for attentive
consideration of its case, being confident that nought else is required to ensure
its permanent occupation of that place in public esteem from which its
calumniators have sought to dethrone it. The Industry asks not for mercy
but for fair play and justice.
SHADOW SHOWS.
Linda Watkins and Constance Bennett,
the respective heroines of “Good Sport and
“The Common Law” at Sydney Regent, re-
semble each other in appearance Both have
graceful figures, and round, flat, pale anu
expressionless faces, vaguely suggestive of
muffins. In short, they are typical scieen
charmers. Linda’s picture is a study of a
side of New York life which is said to be
vanishing in face of diminished incomes and
higher whisky prices. Her unwoithy hus
band leaves for Paris on business, and she
joins a gang of gold-diggers in order tq learn
their knack of alluring and holding men.
John Boles comes into her life at an orgy,
and of course they win, through.tears and
travail, to love and peace. The O old-dis,ge rs
and their boy friends, old. and young, aie
cleverly cast; and Allan Dinehart depicts a
roysterer with a shifty eye and a trick of
pulling out the vox-liumana stop when,
called on for explanations who will be
recognised by many an Australian wife.
Some of the business is new. Boles
is discovered haranguing. a sotatul or
daughters of joy in informative polysyllables.
He seems a boring as,s till you find it is his
way of choking the ladies off. Also there is
no final close up. The lovers part, to meet
again after the divorce, as her train is pull-
ing out of a station.
“The Common Law” is slower, duller and
wordier. Stock shots of the Eiffel Tower
and the Place de I’Opera carry the action to
a studio. Here Joel McCrea engages Con-
stance Bennett to sit for his half-finished
nude without asking her if she has worked
before, or can hold a pose, or even what her
price is. She has become a model, it appeals,
because she is destitute except for the. costly
frocks she stands up in, when not in the
altogether. The course of true love is inter-
rupted when Joel makes the ravaging dis-
covery that he is not the lady’s first admirer.
It isn’t an inspiring effort even if you happen
to like the stars; and this critic can’t stand
them.
“Aloha” (Tiffany) at Sydney Haymarkct
is a story of miscegenation which differs
little in plot and characters from others of its
screen genre. There is Jimmy Bradford (Ben
Lyon), six feet tall and handsome, son of
a wealthy San Francisco merchant, who
lives on a tropical island buying copra for
dad. In San Francisco is Elaine (Marian
Douglas), Jimmy’s sweetheart, rapidly be-
coming just a memory to the absent one.
The inevitable half-caste charmer, Ilanu
(Raquel Torres), links up with the young
copra-buyer, despite the protests of her
copper-colored brethren. James takes her
back to ’Frisco. Ilanu’s wild ways begin
to irritate Jimmy, and when she gets tipsy
on a yachting trip and their child is almost
drowned, he upbraids her vigorously. Ilanu,
realising that she is a dud in domesticated
surroundings, swims ashore with the inten-
tion of hurling herself into the crater of a
near-by volcano, and for a wonder she is
allowed to do so. Nicely photographed and
passably well acted. The Haymarket’s second
string, “The Perfect Lady” (British Inter-
national), is crisp and amusing. It is con-
cerned with the predicament of a weak-kneed
young aristocrat —Elstree joins Hollywood
and the English comedy stage in propagating
the theory that English peers are silly asses
—who is cornered by a husband-chasing
actress, though he is engaged to the “only
girl in the world.” His fiancee plans to
circumvent tlie actress by getting aJIJ
in the latter’s household as a mam
and the usual complications follow. Letty
Amann, Moira Lynd, Fred Lloyd and Lairj
Wilcoxon make laughs.
# * *
In “Broken Lullaby” (Paramount), at Syd-
ney Prince Edward, Phillips Holmes plays
Paul, a French soldier. Paul bayonets a Ge -
man private. He looks upon himself as a mui
derer and his self-hatred increases when he
peruses his victim’s personal papers. lhe
Armistice brings him no peace of mind, ana
he decides to make a confession to the dean
soldier’s family and beg forgiveness. lhe
German’s father, Dr. Holderlin (Lionel
Barrymore), lives with his wife (Louise
Carter) and the girl who was Ins boys
sweetheart, Elsa (Nancy Carrol), m a little
country town. When Paul first meets him
he orders the young Frenchman out of Ins
house, but softens a little when he learns
that Paul had met his son—the old man
believes that it was in Paris and 1 aul is
too scared to tell him otherwise. Paul
visits the ITolderlins frequently, and he
and Elsa fall in love. Elsa is told by
Paul that he killed her former lover, but
what’s that to her now? He wishes to tell
the Holderlins, but she won’t let him. Con-
vincing acting makes the story interesting.
* ¥ *
“West of Broadway” (M.-G.-M.), which
occupies the second half of Sydney State s
programme, is the story of a drunken mil-
lionaire who marries a shady lady while
tight. On the morning after he regrets his
foolishness, and tries to buy her off,
but she refuses, having decided that it
is her mission to wean him from the bottle.
Of course she’s successful, and wins his love
into the bargain. John Gilbert plays the
sozzled person with understanding, and Lois
Moran fills the bill as the bad girl who takes
the right turning.
¥ * *
Sydney Mayfair lias two Columbia pot-
boilers. “The Deceiver” is on the “Who
Killed Cock Robin?” formula —Cock Robin
this time being Reggie Thorpe (lan Keith),
“great lover” actor on the stage and pro-
miscuous philanderer off it, who is found
in his dressing-room after the evening
show, stabbed. Suspicion falls on every-
one. After a second murder, necessary
to remove someone who knows too much,
and the arrest of Thorpe’s jealous under-
study (Lloyd Hughes), the father of a be-
trayed girl is tricked into revealing his guilt.
A paraphrase of Othello’s death scene is a
feature. “High Speed,” the other Mayfair
offering, is mostly ex-cowboy Buck Jones
careering madly around in motor-cars to
defeat schemers in league with his sweet-
heart’s father’s business enemies. Virtue
triumphs. Suitable for children of all ages,
who will love the well-faked car smashes.


fw
m
kid
r.
è
THE NEW DECORATIONS
The 'Winter Garden, the Dining-room, the Ball-room
Lounge—these hare all been entirely remodelled and
redecorated in the modem manner. The whole forma
a glamorous and enchanting setting that is without
an equal in Australia.
Reduced Tariff —"Room Only” Rates.
Single Room from 10/6 per day
Double Room from 20/- p er day
WRITE FOR RATE CARD
Telegraphic Address:"Austraotel, Sydney
Australia
mm
mmsa
The Hotel of the
C ommonwealth,
Sydney.
é
'THE WORLDS
MOST PERFECT
PUMP
The “Kismet” Duplex Master
is the aristocrat of Pumps.
Because of its patent super-charged action, it delivers
twice the volume of air with half the effort. Strongly built to
give lasting service, it is an engineer’s job throughout. It makes
tyre inflation a pleasure, and is unconditionally guaranteed.
IT’S THE PUMP YOU NEED.
Kismet
DUPLEX “MASTER”
FOOT-PUMP
Two
ê
in One
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD., Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
ë
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, C.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
TOBACCO-GROWING.
“Penfield”: The tobacco crop is being
harvested, and the official estimate is any-
thing from 10 million to 12 million pounds;
as late as 1926-27 it was less than If million
pounds. In the last year or two there has
an astounding increase in the number
ot farmers; registered growers are distributed
this way:—
1929. 1932.
Queensland .. .. .. ~ 48 H 63
Victoria 66 1160
X S. AVales 203 560
NVestralia .... .. ~ 47 345
S. Australia .. .. .. 18 230
Tasmania .. .. .. .. 84
Total 372 4032
Most of the new growers know nothing about
the business: in Victoria and S. Aus., at
any rate, many are young sons of people in
pretty good positions, who at ordinary times
would be found city jobs. It doesn’t cost
a great deal to set up as a tobacco-grower.
Some of the Crown land used in Queens-
land was valued at 2s. 6d. an acre; much
of the country planted near Stawell—at the
eastern foot of the Grampians, in Victoria —
is poor scrub land; and it is third-class
country which is occupied outside Mt. Gam-
bier, in S. Aus. Quite obviously most of
the growers are feeling their way, Hoping
to learn as they go: what they produce
meantime is in the lap of the gods. Thus
far great differences in results are visible.
Many of the crops show striking lack of
uniformity—even in the Moyston-Stawcil
district of Victoria, which the former Vic.
tobacco expert Temple Smith has chosen
for his own camp. In N. S. Wales the old
tobacco districts (especially Tam worth) have
got the bulk of the new growers; but tests
are being made in the West under irriga-
tion. One of the most interesting is at
Boggabri, where a firm of growers has 70
acres under cultivation, with drying and
curing facilities to match.
Australia’s neglect of tobacco has been
shameful: in 1930-31 the leaf imported
amounted to 22,393,0451 b., and, though there
had been a great fall in price, it still was
worth £1,413,374. For many years the Aus-
tralian leaf used was no more than 6 p.c.
of the total; and only five years back
the managing director of the B.A.T.C. told
the Tariff Board that, if the co. had to con-
sult the public taste, there was not much
prospect of using more. But that was before
the crash; since then we have had to suit
our tastes to our circumstances.
After looking over some of these new
tobacco districts one can’t help thinking that
it would have been far better if the indus-
try had grown up gradually, improving itself
as it Avent; we should not then at any time
have had any very large quantity of rubbish
to smoke. As it is we shall for some years
probably have a great deal. But that won’t
justify the withdrawal of substantial tariff
protection; we neglected an industry we
should have encouraged, and now we ought
to pay a penalty.
There is a point, however, which protec-
tion ought to stop short of. In Queensland
the protection given to sugar has been gov-
erned largely by the requirements of the
poorest people in the industry—people who
at this time of day shouldn’t really be in
it at all. The men who are battling for
the tobacco industry ought to make it quite
clear that they are not going to attempt to
save the duds—that their concern is only
Avith the reasonably efficient growers on
reasonably suitable land bought at a reason-
able price.
SUPER. ON THE N.S.W. SOUTH COAST.
“Azac”: There are few far South Coast
(N.S.W.) dairy-farmers who cannot get re-
sults from super, applied as a top-dressing
to their pastures. On the poorer hill land
paspalum rarely becomes a nuisance; the
pastures are often harsh, sparse and lack-
ing in clovers. An application of 2cwt.
super, in the autumn brings along the clovers
almost immediately. It has not been found
necessary to repeat the dose of super, the
following year, it being most economical to
make subsequent applications of lewt. per
acre in the autumn of every second year.
Generally speaking, the super, more than
doubles carrying capacity and—what is per-
haps more important—the spring growth
comes away fully three weeks earlier on
treated than on untreated land. Too many
farmers apply the fertiliser Avithout stirring
the surface of the soil with a harroAv or
other suitable implement. Spreading it on
top gets results, but, as I heard a puzzled
dairy-farmer say, the improvement is often
more noticeable where the grasses were
shortest at the time of top-dressing; where
they were long the super, perhaps never
reached the soil.
When viewing some of these treated areas,
although the increased growth was some-
times astonishing, one could not but help
being struck w'ith the yellowish-green color
of the pastures and the amount of weed
growth of a kind—factors suggestive of soil
sourness. It was surprising to learn that
lime had never been tried, especially as the
hill land is generally poor in legumes.
One farmer passed on a useful hint con-
cerning the use of super, for control of
bracken where there are numerous scattered
clumps. The bracken is cut or slashed and
burned; the patches are then top-dressed
with super., which, in conjunction with the
ashes and the sterilising effect of the fire,
soon brings along a vigorous growth of suc-
culent pasture. The cattle concentrate on
these patches and the constant trampling
and grazing soon thin out the fern.
An indirect benefit of applying super, to
paspalum pastures —paspalum usually chokes
out all other grasses and then grows in such
profusion that it becomes rank—is that it
makes the paspalum more tasty. Hence the
cattle keep it grazed short, thus giving the
clovers, principally white clover, a chance to
compete. Paspalum is cursed by many dairy-
farmers, but short, young paspalum is rich
in protein—the most important food con-
stituent from a milk-producing point of view.
THIS YEAR’S WOOL.
Winelicombe Carson’s annual review of
the wool situation is far from pessimistic.
The clip for the past season was a l'ecord
for Australia; it totalled in the vicinity of
three million bales for the 12 months, beat-
ing the previous best (1929-30) by 133,000
bales. Though the Continent and America,
both on the gold standard, were able to buy
at exceptionally low cost in Australian cur-
rency, growers received prices comparing
favorably with the previous year's rates and
higher than those ruling in the early .part
of the century. In 1900-01, greasy aver-
aged s§d. per pound; in 1901-02, 6£d.; in
1908-09, 7£d. From July 1 last year to
March 31 of this the average was 8.5 d. A
good growing season during the present year
resulted in a heavier fleece cut per sheep,
and growers generally realised from Is. 6d.
to 2s. per head more than in 1930-31. The
close of the present year in June should see
£3,000,000 more earned in Australia than
for the previous wool year. At the same
time, wool worth 34 millions in Australia
will only realise 251 millions in English
money, and Commonwealth overseas commit-
ments must be paid in Britain.
The year opened badly in Australia, but
the suspension of the gold standard by
Britain brought about a swift improvement.
The rise in prices in Britain encouraged
Continental buyers, with the result that in
November the low prices of August had risen
35 p.c. in Australia. The average price for
the early September wools was 6|d. per
pound. Fleeces were unusually heavy, how-
ever, and growers averaged from ss. 6d. to
(is. 6d. a head for their clip; though the
average for the first month’s sales was nearly
2d. per pound lower than 12 months before,
their returns were usually higher. The
advance in prices for the October-November
sales to an average of 9d. per pound meant
a further improvement of Is. Od. per sheep.
Perhaps the most satisfactory feature of the
sales was that, in spite of the general econo-
mic position of the world, the Australian
clip found such a ready market. The highest
price for the year was 384 d. for merino
fleeces, as compared -with 31Jd. the year
before. Fine wools were less in demand and
the average for 70’s fleece was 22d.
As to buyers, Yorkshire this year has
played a big part, the improvement in
British wool trade conditions following on
the imposition of a 50 p.c. duty on textiles
and yarns entering the country being largely
responsible. Japan repeated last year’s in-
tensive buying activity, having taken
505,968 bales to the end of March, compared
with 513,968 for the whole of the 1930-31
period. French buyers were not so forward
as in the recent past, textile exports to
Britain having diminished. The German
demand also fell off, but Italy made a con-
siderable advance, her buying being now five
times greater than before the war. The
U.S.A. was also a limited but useful buyer
of free-spinning wools, taking from 50,000
to GO,OOO bales, which can be considered an
annual order. Australian mills have played
a most important part this season, buying
freely and paying some of the best prices
for the choicer wools. The Commonwealth
now contains 58 combing and spinning mills,
and the local trade promises to become almost
indefinitely expanded.
CONSERVE FODDER!
“Sativa”: Many wheat-farmers could do
with a mob of sheep or dairy heifers, but
can’t raise the money. I advise such wheat
men, during this lush season, to conserve
fodder. They have the plant, and at little
or no cost, other than their owm labor, that
unstocked black-oat paddock with the usual
prolific growth of rubbish could be turned
into a couple of hundred tons of pit or
stack ensilage. And that amount of ensil-
age will carry 500 sheep over 12 months.
N. S. Wales is undoubtedly over-stocked
should that inevitable dry spell come, and
wheat-farmers who now prepare for such a
contingency will be rewarded with sheep,
cattle or cash. Well-built stacks of first-class
wheaten or oaten hay are more costly and
laborious than ensilage, but not beyond the
average wheat-farmer. During those fair
seasons prior to 1914 I conserved in the
Lockhart district 200 tons of good green
wheaten and oaten hay, and cashed it that
year for £3OOO gross. Again, in the Junee
district in 1919 I sold the standing crop
of 1500 acres in the stook at £6 per ton. It
averaged a ton per acre. Admittedly more
money was about in those days, but the time
is approaching when farmers who have on
hand an abundance of well-conserved fodder
will be backing a winner.
A BLOW TO “F.A.Q.”
“Valerin”: The report of Dr. Kent Jones,
a leading British cereal chemist, on baking
tests made from a trial shipment of Pusa
No. 4, a strong flour wheat grown in the
north-west of N.S. Wshould put another
nail into the f.a.q. coffin. Dr. Jones writes:
“We made excellent tin loaves, using 57.1
per cent, water absorption. This is a parti-
cularly strong and in every way satisfactory
sample of Australian flour, much better than
normal samples of Australian. This wheat
could be used in quite large proportions in
strong English blends without difficulty.”
As the water absorption of average Aus-
tralian wheat varies from 42 to 46 per cent,
the Pusa sample is remarkably high. The
measure of strength, or water-absorption
capacity, is usually indicated in quarts of
water absorbed per 2001 b. Thus Pusa would
require 57 quarts to be added to a 2001 b.
sack of flour to make a dough fit for baking.
The millers’ and bakers’ ideal variety is one
yielding a flour of high strength; ‘that is,
one capable of yielding a maximum of loaves
of good color, texture and quality per sack
of flour. It is obvious that flour requiring
57 quarts of water is a better monetary
proposition than one requiring 44 only; the
former will yield 20 21b. loaves more, which
at 4|d. per loaf means an extra £3 15s. per
ton of flour.
Under the crude f.a.q. system the farmer
has no inducement to grow strong wheats
like _ Pusa No. 4. Comeback, Florence,
Minister and Corrabin, which arc sparse
yielders. What lie wants is a “bag-filler”
irrespective of quality. Under a proper sys-
tem of grading for quality Australia could
cut into the Manitoban monopoly for making
strong blends.
CONTROLLING BUFFALO-FLY.
“The buffalo-fly is thought to nave been
introduced into Australia with buffaloes
landed at Darwin. In 1911 it attracted
attention as a pest of cattle in the Northern
Territory. From 1911 to 1926 extensive
movements of cattle occurred in northern
Australia, and Murnane recorded the range
of the buffalo-fly as from Broome, West-
ralia, to the Robinson-River on the east.
In 1928 the fly first crossed into Queensland
on the far north-western border. It has
since spread south-eastward to the Leich-
hardt River, and now, in 1932, is well east-
ward of this river, and is a most serious
menace to Queensland, and, incidentally, ro
N. S. Wales, should its spread not be held
up.”
So say Max Henry, chief veterinary sur-
geon, and W. B. Gurney, entomologist, in
an article published in the May issue of the
N.S.W. “Agricultural Gazette,” an article
which conveys a grave warning to those who
have the ordering of State and Common-
wealth expenditure. The fly does a power
of mischief when it confines its attentions
to beef cattle. “In bad seasons in north
Australia it attacks the cattle in clouds.
The amount of blood withdrawn becomes
considerable; the irritation caused leads to
the cattle damaging themselves by rubbing
and scratching, and sores are frequently
formed which may lead to further trouble.”
The effects on dairy cows would be immea-
surably worse. “In order to produce the
maximum, a dairy cow requires rest and
comfort. If she is continually subjected to
the attacks of a number of blood-sucking,
irritating insects, that rest and comfort will
be seriously disturbed,” with serious loss of
production, to mention only one certain con-
sequence.
Control measures adopted in North West-
ralia have been successful. Cattle intended
for the Perth market are sprayed imme-
diately .before they are placed on the boat
at the northern port; and the precautionary
measures are extended to the manure on
the steamer —the fly lays its eggs in cattle
manure. Several types of repellent have
been used; .“some have not only driven the
fly off the beast, but have destroyed the
insect.” But Westralia is favorably situated
in this regard. Vast distances separate the
infected northern cattle from clean cattle
in the south; there is no north-south rail-
way or any regular stock route. It is dif-
ferent in Queensland, where the fly is
approaching the railhead, from which lines
traverse pretty well all the cattle country,
communicating with the N. S. Wales and
Victorian systems. Then there are the stock
routes, which increase the difficulty of apply-
ing control measures.
The writers suggest that cattle movements
in Queensland may have to be “concentrated
on a smaller number of routes.” In North
Westralia cattle are passed to the boats
through long crushes, from which “they are
subjected to a spray given out under pres-
sure which comes in contact with all parts
of their bodies.” It is considered that an
adaptation of this treatment, applied in North
Queensland “immediately before trucking”
(the train to move off as soon as the cattle
are on board) “and again at some point of
the railway journey, would retard the move-
ment of the fly onwards to a very. great
extent.” In other words, “a double spraying
carried out. under appropriate conditions
might be an almost complete safeguard.”
TREE-PLANTING TIME.
“R.X.8.”: Autumn is tree-planting time,
and the man who has the comfort of stock
to consider, or who wants to improve the
value and appearance of his holding, should
start to get trees and shrubs into position
now. There is a big selection offering at
most nurseries, and you can buy a bigger
or older tree by paying more for it than for
a seedling. The extra expense is worth
while; buy and plant the most advanced
stuff you can afford.
When you send your order, be sure to
inform the supplier what you w'ant the tree
to do, and what soil and situation are like.
If you don’t know what is best, you i can
safely leave the choice to the nurseryman.
Give a thought to planting a breakwind
and putting in stuff that will soon replace
fences as hedges. Don’t begrudge the trees
the food and moisture they take from the
ground. None of them are as greedy as they
are generally thought to be, anyhow.
Don’t risk losing your money and time by
wrong planting methods. Never dig a bigger
hole than the rooting system needs. Put
a stake in position before the tree. Let
the roots lie out naturally, and alter the
shape of the hole rather than cramp them.
Shake the tree as you put the earth in to
let it settle among the roots, and tamp the
soil firmly with the foot before giving the
planted tree a bucket of water. Let it have
water for the first three days at least.
Don’t be too keen on the utility value of
fruit trees. They require a lot of atten-
tion, and the time you have to give them
may not be worth the value of the fruit.
And give a place on your list to the honey
locust. It does well in all climates and can
hold its own through dry spells; it provides
shade and ornament, and beans that all
.stock, especially pigs, relish and fatten on.
But there are many others, and if you don’t
know about them, drop a line to the Agri-
cultural or Forestry Department in your
State and see die help it will offer you.
THE SOIL FOR POULTRY.
“Jack Point” : A light sandy soil is almost
invariably recommended for poultry-keeping;
but a fertile soil, producing better pasture,
is much more conducive to the quick growth
of young stock and the development of a
first-class layer at the earliest possible age
commensurate with proper growth. This
is the most vital part of a hen’s life, and
if she is on first-class range from eight weeks
old until she is ready to be drafted into the
laying-house, she will undoubtedly put up a
better egg record than the pullet reared on
poorer soil.
And on the more fertile soil the poultry-
farmer has a much better chance for his side-
lines—cows are a great help and so
are pigs. Better green feed can natu-
rally be grown, and such rich greens as
lucerne may take the place of up to 15 per
cent, of pollard, bran and other more expen-
sive ingredients of the mash. The heavier
soil can be sweetened occasionally with lime,
followed by the growth of a quick-growing
green crop, which will naturally absorb much
of the lime and be more beneficial to the
hens.
The one thing to remember is that no
land on which poultry are run should be over-
stocked. There is more danger of this on the
heavier soil than the light, but no efficient
poultry-farmer will overstock.
(Land Page continued on page 30.)


HAND SEWN
Ready made. . . .but hand-sewn
throughout.... this Abbey Shoe is
easily the best in stock shoes. It
wears longer and preserves its shape
better than any machine-sewn foot-
wear. It stands more resoling and,
in the long run, actually saves
money. In workmanship and quality
of leather it’s unsurpassed. And
you will notice its extra comfort
straight away.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also,
a tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.) or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF . 70/-
BLACK BOX CALF . 70/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
•ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 282
CONSTIPATION
KILLS THE
JOYS OF LIFE
At the first sign of Constipation—
take FIGSEN. Figsen is as prompt
as it is gentle and natural. No
purging. No griping pain. Nc
unpleasant after-effects. Figsen
acts gently on the intestinal
muscles and helps them to per-
form their natural functions. Fig-
sen is easy to take and will not
upset the most delicate stomach.
For yourself—for the kiddies —
always keep a tin of Figsen handy.
FIGSEN
FOR CONSTIPATION
Your Chemist
sells and
recommends
©
THE
BllkfllTEfl
(Jill 1 LU
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
[effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, See. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance.
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH-
k
YOUR SEARCH
IS ENDED-
In Diamond Radio Batteries and
Torch Refills you will find the
best, the most satisfactory, and
the cheapest batteries procurable.
Diamonds have been tested and
proved over many years to give
longer service, which means
greater dependability and less
cost.
Sold by every dealer throughout Australia.
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES 6,
TORCH REFILLS.
BREEDING WILD DUCKS.
“Larrapinta”: It has been done, but there
are drawbacks which “E.S.S. (B. 4/5/02)
doesn’t mention. A squatter I know has a
swamp which is an ideal breeding-ground.
Over a square mile in area, it never goes
drv it is fringed with red-gums and box-
trees full of hollow limbs for nesting, the
centre is open vrater, and the place is tuu
of natural duck food. Bags of seed rice
were broadcast around the edge, and the rice
attracted ducks in countless numbers, lhe
young ducks to be seen every spring showed
how well they were breeding, and my friend
began to consider the swamp as a business
proposition. It was calculated that £3OO
could be made from it annually from the
sale of ducks at 3s. per pair Then it was
found that the S.A. game laws prohibits
the sale of wild ducks, no matter how or
where bred. . , , ~
Similar swamps exist through the s.-e. of
SA and the Western Wimmera (Vic.).
In my friend’s case, a vermin-proof fence
was the only expense, the grazing value of
the swamp was not decreased in the slightest,
and the ducks were rendered quite tame by
coming up to feed with domestic ducks aloO
kept in the enclosure. Any wanted for the
table were easily trapped with bran and
pollard placed in a small covered yard. Late
in the spring nearly all the ducks would
clear out for other feeding-grounds, but as
soon as the season opened they were back
within a week. .. ,
The existing laws will have to be altered,
in S.A. at any rate, to allow those who breed
ducks to sell them, and then we will have
a new form of primary production well
worth taking up. As for hatching the eggs
of wild ducks and geese under hens, as
“E.S.S.” states, it is now being done to an
extent that proves it to be capable of being
turned into a profitable sideline. The duck-
lings must be brought up with those of
domestic ducks, to make them tame, and their
wings must be kept clipped. Foxes must be
fenced out, however, and the birds allowed
plenty of room to roam in, with water in the
form of a dam or swamp. If penned up in
small yards they fret, sicken and die.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Simple process of fellmongering sheep-
skins? (2) How is the wool now prepared for
market? Is it scoured and classed before
sending away? (3) Any hook on the sub-
ject?—B966. . . .
(1) Skins can be brought into condition
for de-woolling (provided the value of the
pelt is not a consideration) by soaking in
cold water. The skins should then be stacked
in a heap, flesh-side to flesh-side, and covered
with bagging to retain heat and humidity.
Testing by plucking will show when the
skins are ready to work. (2) If in sufficient
quantity, classing is advisable, in which case
the skins should first be classed according to
(a) merino or crossbred, (b) length or
growth of wool. The wool could be dried
and sold as slipe, or scoured., (3) None
known.
In what district in N. S. Wales are orange-
growing properties of about 500 trees, navel
and late Valencias, proving commercially
successful? —9715.
Satisfactory results in such circumstances
are attained by only a comparatively few
very skilful growers. Suitable districts are
the central coast (in the vicinity of Moor-
land) and Mangrove Mountain, as well as
inland areas where irrigation is available,
but difficulty would be experienced in
locating an area that is for sale and
which possesses ideal conditions. Advertise
requirements in “The Fruit World of Aus-
tralasia,” 78a Victoria-street, Melbourne; or
“Fruit Culture and Small Farming,” 59
Regent-street, Sydney, and arrange for ex-
pert inspection and advice before purchasing.
My fowls have contracted a disease the
first symptom of which is leg-weaknessj then
the eyes get filmy and full of thick, white
pus, which rapidly produces blindness. They
are in clean, dry pens, with concrete floors,
and food, water, etc., are clear and suitable.
Cause and cure, and can it be carried by
flies? —9701. .
Symptoms suggest roup. Kill badly-
affected birds, and burn their carcases. The
heads of those with only a slight discharge
from the eyes or nostrils should be washed
in water made wine-color with Condy’s cry-
stals. The vessel used should be deep enough
to allow the head to be immersed, and the
bird’s head should be held under for a few
seconds several times. This should be done
daily until the discharge stops. These birds
should be isolated and kept in dry, well-
ventilated pens, free from draughts, and fed
on easily-digested food. Epsom’s salts should
be given in the mash at the rate of one pound
to 200 birds once a week. The salts should
be dissolved in the liquid the mash is mixed
with. Sulphur at the same rate should be
given once a week, allowing three or four
days between. The sulphur should be thor-
oughly mixed through the bran before it is
wetted. Two or three weeks of this treat-
ment should effect a cure. The disease can
be transmitted in various ways.
(1) Where is the best cigar-leaf wrapper
grown? (2) What part of Australia is most
adapted for growing cigarette tobacco? —
9606.
(1) Havana and Sumatra. (2) Probably
the eastern seaboard of Queensland.
Could a wood gas-producer be fitted to a
motor-bicycle or baby car? —9578.
No. The smallest equipment now on the
market weighs a quarter of a ton and occupies
15 cubic feet.
(1) What vegetables are used for the pro-
duction of power alcohol? (2) Methods of
production? (3) Any literature applying to
Australian conditions available? (4) Is
power alcohol an economical fuel? —9692.
(1) Any sacchariferous or starchy plants.
(2) Fermentation by special yeasts. (3)
Council for Scientific and Industrial Re-
search’s Bulletin No. 33. (4) Cheap and
high-grade raw materials and other favor-
able conditions are required for success in
competition with other fuels.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Wandi”: Where a temporary fence is
required, the quickest and cheapest is the
lightning fence. Place the posts about 45ft.
apart, and put three droppers—light, split
battens —between. To run the wires through,
stand each set of droppers together against
the post, and run them along into position
after the wire has been strained. Where
battens are not easily got, use pieces of
wire, each about 6ft. long. Ivey the top
end to the top wire of the fence, and loop
it round the other wires. This fence will
hold sheep as long as the wires are taut
“Wrash”: The time to deal with weeds
that spring up over the freshly-ploughed
cultivation patch after rain is before they
have grown to half-sized plants. Remove
the three back tines of the one-horse scuf-
fler. Then run a length of No. 8 wire,
stretched tightly, through the bolt-hole of
the rear tine, and fasten its ends to the
other bolt-holes. Where the herbage is new
and the ground fairly soft,, this device
drawn over the field will root out every weed.
“Willeroo”: A publican accidentally dis-
covered a simple trap for rats and mice. He
left a lot of corks soaking in a tub partly
filled with water, and during the night rats
jumped down on to the corks and were
drowned. Small flat pieces of deal or pine
would do as well as corks; and to make the
trap more efficient, suspend a tempting bait
close over the floats on a thin wire, hung
midway from another wire tied across from
one handle of the tub to the other. Then
set it alongside a box, or lean a board against
“Dimon”: A few penn’orth of animal char-
coal from the chemist, placed in the tool-
box will keep the tools from rusting by
absorbing the moisture. Put the charcoal in
a perforated tin, renew when the absorbent
turns grey. A small quantity lasts a long
time. . . - j
“Ben Warm” : To ascertain the dressed
weight of a sheep when large scales are not
handy, multiply the weight of a shoulder
bv ten. It will not be many ounces out.
“Bushman”: Cover your exposed piping
with strips of hessian and a coat of tar, and
you may save pounds in split pipes in the
dead of winter, and perhaps hours waiting
for water from frozen taps.
“Dimon”: A good way to provide a lick
for dairy cows is to put a lump of rock
salt, in the bail. Place it on a stand or m
a small .box a couple of feet from the ground.
It induces more contentment in restless or
impatient cows, and makes most of them
eager, when they have become used to it, io
go into the bail.
“Kooragai”: Crows are trapped very
simply in some parts of the bush. A few
stakes are driven into the ground in a small
circle and about 3ft. high. On the ground
within a rabbit, offal or other bait is placed.
The crow alights on top of the stakes, then
drops down on to the bait; when he tries
to fly up again there is not enough room to
spread his wings. When one crow is seen
feeding in the trap others are induced to
“Gumblegubbin”: It might be asked of
graziers who are busy trapping blowflies it
they know what they are catching. Hr.
Tillyard says it is important to bear in mind
that under normal conditions the hairy or
secondary maggot flies are not ot
initiating strike in sheep, and that their
larvse are enemies of the smooth flies which
do initiate strike. All baits tested so far,
he states, have been found to attract more
female flies than males. But the ordinary
baits in use, such as liver, offal and blowfly
“soup,” tend rather to attract secondary flies
than primary ones. A trap and bait which
reduce the comparative number of secondary
flies, and so favor the primary species, can-
not be scientifically regarded as of any value
at all.
“Jack Point”: A hen in full lay that does
not get enough lime will draw on the lime
in her skeleton for the deficiency, with un-
fortunate results. The best way to supply
lime is either in the form of oyster-shell
grit or ground coral. Failing these, pul-
verised mortar from an old building or pul-
verised limestone would answer. Egg-shells
should never be wasted, but it is a mistake
to feed them straight to the hens from the
kitchen—cases of egg-eating have been traced
to this cause. They should be dried in the
oven, then ground up finely and mixed with
the other grit.
“E.H.M.”: To kill the young green cater-
pillars that infest cabbage and cauliflower
plants, dissolve a tablespoonful of salt in a
gallon of water. Spray after sundown and
the mixture will not harm the leaves.
“Ben Warin”: Strutting of posts can be
done without going to the trouble of build-
ing-on sills and liousing-in legs. Simply
nail across the post two pieces of hardwood,
one approximately 18in. and the other
2ft., the former at the bottom and the
latter 6in. below ground level. They should
be placed at right angles to the strain. If
the strain is both ways, as it is on some
posts, two sets may be attached; they stick
closer than a brother. I know, for I have
had to pull some out after they had been in
the ground for 15 years.
“Floodmark”: When stock horses get
staked in the hoof cut away the hoof until
the stake is exposed, draw the wood out
with pliers, syringe out the wound with a
strong solution of lysol (one part lysol to
ten parts water), and afterwards daub well
with Stockholm tar. When it is staked above
the hoof wash and shave off the hair round
the wound with a safety-razor blade. If
unable to secure the stake by gentle prob-
ing put on a poultice of one teaspoon of
sugar mixed well with a teaspoon of soft
soap, and apply each morning till the stake
comes out, bandaging the leg firmly to hold
the noultice in position.
“Werrimee”: A good fodder plant is the
supplejack (Ventilago vim,inilia). Much of it is
cut down for stock; unlike most other fodder
trees, however, it suckers freely. This curi-
ous tree can be made to spread into dense
clumps by operating oh the lateral roots.
“C.P.”: A Ganmain (N.S.W.) man sowed
a paddock with oats, and harvested a crop
of wheat averaging six bags to the acre. The
only feasible explanation is that when sowing
the oats he turned up self-sown wheat from
the 1930 harvest, and, owing to the long
period of extreme wet, the sown oats rotted
While the wheat nearer the surface was un-
affected, and germinated. The only drawback
to the transaction was that the farmer was
docked a penny a bushel because there were
too many oats in the sample.


m
V’TT
% \mf
m
r
We have a large range of Pruning cl
Tools. Scccateurs all prices, 1/10,
3/*, 4/6, 5/«. Genuine "Mexcur,” V,
8/- and 8/6. " Wiss” 17/- and
19/9. "Duplex” Pruning Saw has
ordinary teeth one side, lightning teeth f I
on other.
Price 12-in. l4-in. 3/6
One of the greatest time and
labour savers on any Farm is
a " Macson ” Earth Scoop
Strong Steel.
3 cub. ft. * 79/6
85/
88/
€7/-/
r
- hr
Pti
MJI
The ideal Hand Pump for general pur
poses is the ''Acme.” 1600 gallons/
per hour. Price £5 F.O.R.
bourne. —\
r For heavy hau
ling work get a
"Star” Rope Hoist,
i, from / »/
Four sizes, fn
5001 b. to 1,500
lb. capacity. V
Prices from /
17/3 to 50/6/ 1
n
m
m
Forge very strongly made,
22in, Firepan. Powerful
Blower.
£4/10/.
Other types available.
m
u.
iiiiiii/iiutjuii'iniii
Anvils, British Steel,
various weights. 1/3 lb.
See our Catalogue for
Hammers, Tongs, fiCc.
"Disstoms” Crosscut Saws
from sft. Peg Tooth at
23/6 to 6ft. 6in. 30/6.
3ft. One-man, 20/6.
Many* others available.
An "Apex” Petrol
Pump Outfit enables
you to buy and store
petrol in bulk. Also
useful for filling tract-
ors out on the work.
Large size Pump with
%in. fittings 42/6.
Smaller size with Yl in.
fittings 37/6.
A glance through the
pages of our Free Cata-
logue reveals hundreds
of lines to interest
Farmers.
>E “Ricksha” Paint is un-
' doubtedly the best in Aus-
“ tralia. Outlasts three coats
; of inferior paints. Send for
1 color card and prices. We
■ carry large stocks of
~ Painter’s Brushware.
002
V
Exceptionally strong all-
metal Barrows at lowest
Lift your Car by Oil Power Hydraulic
Jacks. Enables a child to raise the
heaviest car. As illustrated, 2 ton
capacity Price 50/* Others also
stocked.
b
prices.
Write for particulars
Jj ” Motomac ” Electric Vul
cantser will amaze you with its efficiency
Just connect it to your battery and in
seven minutes the patch becomes act-
ually part of the tube. Complete with
patches, Price 10/6.;r^C
il The quickest way to dig post holes. Get an
j Earth Auger and you’ll never use anything
.... /n else for this work. Sizes range from 3-in.
»■ * dia. to 10-in. Prices from 16/- to 18/*
W
A few of the many lines stocked by
McPHERSON’S
- FOR -
FARM and HOME
USE
£Pfterson%)
Proprietary, Limited.
551 Collins Street, Melbourne
116 Waymouth St., Adelaide
51 Bathurst Street, Sydney
532 Muraay Street. Perth
UNRIVALLED IN
QUALITY AND
EXCELLENCE—!
m
H
H :
H
■
M
HTHE housewife is
**■ saved a World of
work and worry by
Goldo Puff, Sao and
Thin Captain Bis-
cuits, because they
are each adaptable
to so many forms of
variation.
The addition of savoury
or sweet items, or fresh
or stewed fruit to either
of these three biscuits
makes it a different
delicacy, whilst retaining
to the full its delicious
quality ; they are always
so crisp and oven warm,
made of such carefully
selected ingredients that
they never fail to please.
Try also Spicy Fruit Roll.
Chocolate Nutty Crisp,
Raspberry Fruit Cream,
Shredded Wheatmeal
and don’t forget MIL K
Arrowroot, childhood’s
Perfect Biscuit.
OTT,
D
ID,
FAMOUS
iiOlß
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR THEM.
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman. HUGH M. STRACHAN, Vice-Chairman.
ALEXR. F. BELL, C.M.G. SIR HENRY CHAUVEL, G.C.M.G., 1v.C.8.
HON. SIR FRANK G. CLARKE, K.8.E., M.L.C. SIR JAMES A. M. ELDER, K.B.E.
D. YORK SYME, Jun.
Heart Office: Melbourne, 271-79 Collins Street.
Branches throughout Victoria, New South Wales, South Australia, Western Australia and Queensland,
and at Hobart and Launceston in Tasmania.
Agents in all parts of Australasia, the United Kingdom, and throughout the World.
London Office: 7 Lothbury, E.C.2.
Sub-Branch: Australia House, Strand.
Balance Sheet of The National Bank of Australasia, Limited, at March 31, 1932.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
Proprietors’ Capital—
-200,000 £lO
Shares fully
paid up ..£2,000,000 0 0
600,000 £8
Shares paid up
to £5 per
Share.. .. 3,000,000 0 0
£5,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund
Account . . £3,000,000 0 0
Exchange Adjust-
ment Reserve 300,000 0 0
Profit and
Loss Account 275,950 18 10
£8,575,950 18 10
Notes in Circulation . . . . 47,708 0 0
Bills in Circulation .. . . 204,891 7 1
Government Deposits—
Not bearing
Interest .. £178,926 14 0
Bearing Interest 202,624 0 9
£381,550 15 3
Other Deposits-
Not bearing
Interest . £11,298,098 3 1
Bearing Interest 22,939,414 4 11
£34,237,512 8 0
— 34,619,063 3 3
Interest Accrued and Rebate on
Current Bills .. .. . . 414,336 14 2
Balances due to other Banks . . 345,238 15 0
£44,267,188 18 4
Contingent Liability, as per contra, in regard to
obligations of Customers and others on Letters of
Credit and Guarantees, £1,110,756 13s. lOd.
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion,'
A u s t r a lian
Notes and
Cash at
Bankers
C o mmomvealth
Treasury Bills
(Including
£400,000 at
London)
Cover nnient,
Municipal and
other Public
Stocks, De-
bentures and
Funds
Bills and Re-
mittances in
transitu
Bills and
Cheques on,
and Notes of
Other Banks..
Balances due
from other
Banks
Duty Stamps . .
£6,470,762 9 7
3,900,000 0 0
1,141,667 3 3
2,054,839 0 0
75,677 2 4
69,756 1 1
36,000 6 1
Real Estate, consisting of Bank
Premises ..
Other Real Estate
Bank Furniture
Advances and Bills Discounted,
less provision for all ascertained
Bad and Doubtful Debts and
other contingencies
£13,748,702 2
1,240,688 19
63,578 4
65,457 6
29,148,762 6
4
6
1
2
3
£44,267,188 18 4
Liabilities of Customers and others on Letters of
Credit, Drafts and Guarantees, as per contra,
£1,110,756 13s. lOd.
PROFIT ANI) UOSS ACCOUNT.
Cr.
To Expenses at Head Office, 330
Branches and 110 Agencies ..£763,828 13 3
„ Income, Land and Note Taxes . . 185,322 3 3
~ Interim Dividend . . .. . . 150,000 0 0
„ Balance 275,950 18 10
£1,375,101 15 4
By Balance brought
forward. . .. £349,112 14 11
Less Dividend, May,
1931 .. .. 200,000 0 0
£149,112 1
By Gross Profits, including Re-
coveries, less Rebate on Bills
Current, Interest Accrued on
Deposits, Repairs to Premises,
Rents, etc., Appropriations for
Contingencies, and Bad Debts
written off (all other ascertained
Bad or Doubtful Debts having
been provided for from internal
reserves for contingencies) .. 1,228,989
4 11
0 0
£1,375,101 15 4
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
Cr.
Dr.
To Transfer to Exchange Adjust-
ment Reserve ..
~ Balance
£300,000 0 0
3,000,000 0 0
£3,300,000 0 0
By Balance last year
. . £3,300,000 0 0
£3,300,000 0 0
The Statutory Declaration made by the Chief Manager, the Auditors’ Report and Certificate and
the Statutory Certificate signed by two Directors appear on the original Balance Sheet, and are printed
in the Annual Report, a copy of which has been posted to each Shareholder.
The Balance Sheet brings under notice that an amount of £300,000 has been transferred from the
Reserve Fund (which previously stood at £3,300,000) to a Special Reserve for Exchange Adjustment
which is designed to provide for possible adverse movements in Overseas Exchange. In the event of
this Reserve or any portion of it not being required for the purposes of Exchange Adjustment, the
amount available will be added by the Board to the Bank’s Inner Reserves.
The Net Profit, after deduction of all expenses, etc., including £185,322/3/3 for Income, Land and
’V’/vj-A Tovpq •
Amounted to £276,838 3 11
Add Balance brought forward from previous year .. .. .. . . 149,112 14 11
Making available .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £425,950 18 10
From this sum the following appropriation has been made:—
Interim Dividend of 6 per cent, per annum on the £lO and the £8 shares
paid in November last for the Half-year ended September 30, 1931.. £150,0'00 0 0
And it is recommended that a Dividend be paid on the £lO and the £8
shares for the Half-year ended March 31, 1932, at the rate of
6 per cent, per annum .. .. .. ... .. .. .. 150,000 0 0
and to carry forward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125,950 18 10
£425,950 18 10
■F^ckta,^
aoutm
>go^
&to
?q»G
\%. A "'M
/
h^o
I
f ESSENTIAL V
TO GOOD
COCKTAILS
CINZANO
VERMOUTH
The bulk of a cocktail, in most instances,
is composed of Vermouth. ... It is
obvious, therefore, that the success of
the cocktail depends on the quality of
the Vermouth used. That is why con-
noisseurs insist on Cinzano.
the famous brand
of French or Dry
type Vermouth, is invariably used, either
by itself or in combination with Cinzano
for the drier cocktails.
Obtainable from all Hotels and Wine
Merchants in full size 34 and 17 oz.
bottles.
Manufactured from matured Australian
Wines by
F. CINZANO & CIA
(AUST.) LIMITED
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY. 2
FONTORICE
CINZANO


/EAT A\
NEst LE’tf
TABLET
, EVERY )
3d 6d>
*l/-
LMO
i i
T.»”*
nCpi:
CH
eel
sy»
Tt el
“The man’s chocolate —
dark, bitter-sweet, smooth-
eating, blended with
choice roasted almonds.”
/TAKE A\
Nestle's)
TABLET
V HOME J
Vtoniohv
rrz
PM
n
9
‘tvs
CHOCOLATE
N¥stles outdoor
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
SCHUTE,
BELL &C ud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
è
é
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
It was queer to see Nut Cup go . out Je
short-price favorite for the first division ot
the Flying Handicap at Canterbury Pai k.
Certainly he had Pike on top—and Pike has
a great following—but he was never muc
of a six-furlong horse, preferring eight 01
nine furlongs at welter weights, nor had he
shown form for several months. Hackers
of Cleave rejoiced; fours were offered,
though before some of the bagmen shut then
books they would lay only sto 2. Fhe good-
looking daughter of Wedge— Nellie Grafton
had a comfortable win from Sunlit Rce
and Senator, both outsiders, who dead-
heated ; Nut Cup was never m the hunt.
Sunlit Reef looked as if she needed the lace,
and ought to be strung up for a handicap
at her home course, Warwick I arm.
Brazenface exhibited great speed as an
early three-year-old last season, but was per-
haps over-raced; anyway he lost all form.
Taken to the country and raced sparingly
after being spelled, he has picked up a handi-
cap or two, and has recovered his healthy
appearance, also his slickness. Five to one
for the second division of the Flying Handi-
cap, he pulled it off nicely, although be had
nothing much to spare from George Talto
(4 to 1) and Hard Words, a noddy from
Maoriland, trained by J. T. Jamieson. There
was not much money for Hard Words; there
was a good deal for George Talto, Auda and
Labor Girl, as well as Brazenface.
Rogcrson was saddled up for the Canter-
bury Handicap, and McShortodds was
anxious to lay him, offering fives (twos at
first) in a field of six. The Roger de Busli
gelding had been badly kicked by Exact at
Randwick on the previous Saturday, so he
was a surprise acceptor. As is generally the
Bert: seem to qe much
DOINS HERE?
GiEI?T ; # WHM &*\T A.RE VoU USIN3 T?
fly fishing* t oont you
SEE Tr "
Geßt: Thek 'woulokx you hnmg better
LUCK. \F- VoU USED FLr/-PAPERS
case, the ring’s information proved sound.
Taken to the front by Roy Reed, who slowed
down the field, the topweight shaped fairly
well for a mile or so, but finished feebly, and
was well beaten by Wallace Mimi (6 to 1),
a gelding bred by “John Brown”: he is by
Wallace Mortlake—Duchess Mimi, and went
cheap at the dispersal sale of “Brown s
untried stock. Lady Treclare was a poor
third; it was a poor race altogether, and
Intrepid’s display was shocking.
Both divisions of the Trial Stakes went
to three-year-olds from Chris O’Rourke s
stable, Dun ere (Dunnottar —Boon tree) and
Questionnaire (Legionnaire—lnitiative).
Knox rode both, and they were well backed.
Questionnaire is probably the better of the
pair, up to six furlongs, anyhow; she ran
her six, easing up, in lmin. 14isec. —fast for
Canterbury.
A horse of which this Page formed a good
opinion last year is New King (Flying King
—Black Eyes). At Rosehill one day he ran
clean away from Greenbird and Ring Boy,
who showed good form subsequently. There
was a little support for this Menangle-tramed
nag in the Ashbury Handicap, and a speedy
return to the winning list is indicated by
the way he shaped. The boy on top tried
to make an all-the-way success of it, but such
tactics rarely answer in these once-round
events at Canterbury Park and New King
faded into fourth place. Alienor (5 to 1)
won from Cylanta and Firbolg, and the
stable has a lot to thank Pike for. The
great Jimmy could probably have got home
on any of the other three.
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Farm Novice Handicap: Rowan; next,
Segovia.
Prospect Handicap: Sunlit Reef; next
Sweet Maggie.
May Handicap: Trenette or Gallant Top;
next, Spartel.
Casula Handicap: New King or Trenette;
next, Kavalli.
ifc ***
Williamstown (Yic.) racing last Satur-
day served to further demonstrate the
strength of Fred Hoysted’s jumping team at
Mentone. Hoysted, who had scored pre-
viously with Taciturn (hurdles) and Solo
King (fences), produced Redditch for the
Kororoit Hurdle at the seaside course, and this
son of Red Dennis was made a pronounced
favorite. Redditch had not sported silk
since he finished second to Arcadius in the
V.R.C. New Year Hurdle, yet the most re-
nowned punter in Melbourne declared him
to have a “lay-down-misere” chance. A
late rush for Ronald Cameron's candidate,
Claronga, caused Redditch to go out at
longer odds than he opened at, but Claronga
was beaten at the end of a mile. Ithuriel,
brother to The Dimmer, fought out a tight
finish with Redditch, from whom Bob Ink
son extracted the last ounce of effort; Red-
ditch, who was conceding Ithuriel 271 b., won
by a length. Taciturn may be the main
hope of Hoysted’s stable in the big July
event.
If Epical could have gone to the post for
the Grand National Hurdle of 1929, L. K. S.
Mackinnon, the V.R.C. chairman, might not
have won with Iventle. Unfortunately Epical
went wrong in one of his legs after regis-
tering several brilliant victories over the
battens. The trouble recurred at intervals,
and it took Harry Gymer nearly three years
to build the gelding up into apparent sound-
ness. Epical backed for the Kororoit
Hurdle, dislocated a fetlock after negotiating
the last obstacle. The poor brute was pulled
up in the straight with portion of his near
foreleg swinging loosely. His obvious suffer-
ing was ended by a friendly bullet.
In the Autumn Steeplechase G. P. Nailon,
of Sydney, was represented by Chatswood,
who is looked after by Hasler, one of Pat’s
lads. Chatswood contributed to the record
for the race being equalled by helping Hy-
ing Craze to make the running for half the
journey. TVhen old Giff supplanted Flying
Craze coming to the turn it looked a moral
for him, but Appellant finished too strongly
for Quinn’s chestnut. Appellant resisted a
late challenge from Wirrate, and gained
victory ,by three-quarters of a length. See-
ing that he lost a lot of ground by hitting
a fence in the first circuit and almost fall-
ing, Wirrate performed most impressively.
He belongs to Vin O’Neill, who won a Mel-
bourne Cup with Spearfelt and a Grand
National Hurdle with Longlands. Wirrate
(by Great Star, the sire of Mira Donna and
Lampra) is engaged in both “Nationals, and
might win either of them.
Jumna, favorite for the Steeplechase, had
every chance, but failed badly. Though a
half-brother to Mosstrooper, he will never
rival that gelding’s achievements. Before
retiring from the saddle, F. W. McCabe,
who trains and races Appellant, won a Grand
National Hurdle on Obi and an Australian
Steeplechase on Bullawarra. While on ser-
vice in the war McCabe rode m the Liver-
pool Grand National.
Love Song, well known on Sydney courses,
opened his winning account in Victoria by
taking the Bay View Handicap. He had
charge a long way from home, but defeated
the outsider Liquid Cry by a mere half-
length Once more Thrawn was a good
thing beaten. Third-last at the back of the
course, he finished at terrific speed to gam
a minor place, a neck behind Liquid
Cry. Thrawn needs a longer distance than
10 furlongs to do himself justice. S. A.
Rawdon,” the original owner of Thrawn, cap-
tured the Juvenile Handicap with Ternlet.
Paquin followed up his Ascot triumph by-
taking the Beach Welter at 20 to 1, and
Illustrious gave Heroic another stud adver-
tisement by appropriating the last event o
the card.
***"
For Moonee Valley on Saturday
Commonwealth Steeple: Nauru or Wir-
Mount Alexander Handicap: Thrawn or
Mural Crown.
* * m *
C. W. Cropper, dead in Sydney at 72
after a short illness, was one of the most
competent of the many exceptional racing
officials Australia has produced. He was ZZ
years secretary of the A.J.C., and Randwick
and Warwick Farm won’t seem quite
the same without him. Cropper s con-
nection with racing began in W estralia,
whither he went from his native N.fe.'V.
as a surveyor. Becoming secretary ot
Kalgoorlie Racing Club in 1900 he con-
verted what was originally a hard cement pan
into one of the prettiest garden courses in
the Commonwealth. He succeeded 1. S.
Clibborn with the A.J.C. in 1910, and great
progress was made by the club under his
hand, the stands being rebuilt and, later, the
totalisators installed. He was a fine tennis-
player in young days.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Mclntosh is bringing Stribling, who beat
Camera, to Sydney. Stribling is to meet
Ambrose Palmer at the Stadium on July 4.
Then he may tackle Camera here again.
* * * *
Labriola (14.3) began as if he would
beat Lurich (14.2) at Leichhardt last
Saturday night. The heavier-looking Russ
was thrown everywhere before a headlock,
then a body press, lost him the first fall in
the third round. Mussolini’s countryman
continued to outwrestle the Russian, who
appeared very sick at one stage, until Lab-
rioli was trapped into a backslam. He was
groggy when the sixth began, and fell after
making a futile dive at his foe. Lurich once
more. He is making a lot of money at
Leichhardt.
Footbrawl
Drizzling rain affected the gates at Satur-
day's Vic. League games; still, 20.000-odd
pushed into the Footscray ground to watch
the locals collide with Richmond’s Tigers.
Play was more vigorous than skilful, and,
except in marking, Footscray had the better
of it. With a 13-point lead on starting the
last quarter they looked like winners, but
faulty kicking in that spell—4 behinas from
four easy chances —lost them the day by 3
points—*Scray, 48 ; Richmond, 51. The one-
time gluepot ground at North Melbourne saw
another great tussle, the Hotliamites, under
Dick Tavlor, Melb.’s former star, Tunning
all over undefeated South Melbourne, coached
by Jack Leonard, of W.A., and starting the
last quarter with a 9-point lead. But again
poor goal-shooting lost the bacon and South
went home w’itli still a clean sheet —73 points
to North’s 70. Usually hard to beat on
their own ground. St. Kilda proved a gut
for the fast men from Essendon: ’Don, 87
points; St. K., 57. The other games were
exercise canters. Carlton outed Hawthorn by
112 points to 49; Geelong smothered Mel-
bourne at the Motordrome —133 to 95 —and
Collingwood walloped an old rival, Fitzroy,
by 106 to 75.
* * * *
In their match against N.S.W. at Sydney
Cricket Ground, the Victorian Rugby union
side utterly failed to display that _ respect
for the aged which must have inspired the
Ma State selectors when choosing their team.
Though barely 24 hours off the. mail . train
from Melbourne, the young ami virile visitors
outclassed the home players in all depart-
ments until condition cracked up in the
closing stages. N.S.W. emerged victors by
26 points to 19 (6 tries, 4 converted to 4
tries 2 converted, and a penalty goal), but
actual scores were 21-19, an amazing try being
awarded by referee Mayne after the hall was
over the marked deadline —it was converted.
N.S.W. played the South African 3-4-1 scrum,
but did not meet with conspicuous success,
Carr hooking ably for Victoria until the
weight behind him slackened in the second
half, when Morton took command. The Vic-
torian forwards, fast, tall and eager, out-
shone the opposition in the earlier lineouts
and rucking, Green, a breakaway, being the
best forward on the field. In the backs
Cowper excelled, though in Gee at five-
eighth, Sturtridge at centre and Ward on the
wing, he had good support. Taylor at half
outpointed Malcolm in the first spell, ami
Beyers, the Victorian fullback, was right up
to reputation, his handling being exceptional.
Ross and King were the best of the home
backs. Towers gets worse every game and
Malcolm is evidently slipping. The for-
wards, listless and ineffectual in the first
spell, improved as the opposition weakened.
Love, Morton and Story were the best of
them.
* * *
N.S.W. Rugby League, having completed
its strafe with Queensland, resumed the
grade games on Saturday in Sydney. Scor-
ing was heavy in all the matches, and there
were no surprises. The big game at the
Sports Ground saw Eastern Suburbs run all
over St. George, winning 23-7, or 5 tries and
4 goals to a try and two goals. At North
Sydney Oval, South Sydney galloped away
from the locals, scoring 6 tries and 7 goals
(32) to a try and two penalties (7). Ben
Wearing, who is to play in the first match
against the Englishmen, scored 2 tries and
kicked 4 goals, two of them penalties. New-
town obliterated Balmain by 36-11 on the
latter’s ground at Birchgrove, the one-time
Tigers being now- shrunk to the status of
kittens. University suffered its weekly
martyrdom, this time at the feet of Western
Suburbs, who won 36-13. West and East
continue to head the competition.
* * *
“Broken Time”: The English Northern
Union players now in Australia to tour
under Rugby League rules in N.S.W.
and Queensland, the only two States pro-
fessing the code, are the usual hefty-looking
lot. Only seven of the side here in 1928 are in
the present combination. These are Sullivan,
the ex-Welsh Rugby Union player, who is
famous for his fullback play and goal-kick-
ing : Bryn Evans, another recruit from the
Welsh Rugby Union; Ellaby, noted for pace
and clean play on the wing; Fildes,
a fine forward who specialised in going as
near the knuckle in offside play as he could
get away with on his last tour; W. Horton,
a big and clever forward; and W. A. Wil-
liams, another solid vanguarder of the hard-
working type. The side is said to be the
best which has ever left England under the
professional code. If so, it is not likely to
lose the Test-match rubber.
**# ■ •
“Linesman”: The Maoriland Rugby
League recently asked the sister body m
Sydney to select a coach to prepare men for
the tour of the English side which is to rage
in MX. when the Australian programme is
over. Choice has fallen on W. J. Kelly, him-
self a Maorilander, who came to Australia
with a League team in 1912. Settling in
Sydney, he appeared for Australia against
Wagstaffe’s English side in 1914. Kelly
played with Balmain club, and later made a
reputation as a coach for the University
League club. In his playing days he was a
high-quality centre three-quarter.
:j: ❖ ❖ *
“Past Grammar”: Those Rugby Union
enthusiasts in Sydney who have been anxious
to see Jack Beaton, of St. Joseph’s College,
given a gallop in big football will be dis-
appointed to hear that he will only be
allowed to play in school competitions for
the present. Many good judges are of the
opinion that the hefty lad has no peer in
N.S.W. as a centre. One press authority, m
approving the ban, remarks loftily that
school stars should never be selected for the
State while playing school football. In the
name of the Prophet, rats! H. P. Abbott,
one of the greatest centres Australia has
produced, was still at Brisbane Grammar
School when lie played for Queensland
against the New Zealand Native team in
1889. So was the late Tom Bell, who figured
against N.S.W. the same year.


M 72
VALUE the Universal Appeal!
The consistent demand by dis-
criminating men for Rameno
Knitted Garments is founded
upon many tilings, not the
least of which is VALUE....
value from every point of
view—price, quality, appear-
ance and dependability.
Rameno for
Dependability.
Modelled on the latest English
and Continental Fashions,
Rameno Garments are made
from Wool only—the finest
and best quality Australian
Wool. Appearance, comfort
and long life are found in
every Rameno Garment.
Rameno Garments are the
exclusive production of
Merino Woollen Mills Pty.,
Ltd., Collingivood, Victoria
A popular Ribbed Pullover, No.
2445, in Basket Stitch, with con-
trasting colors. With or without
pockets.
iLwE&wo-javzr’’
* CARDIGANS
SOCKS <wm?GOLF stockings
Sold by all the best Men’s Stores.
How to Fit Yourself
for Life’s Fight
It is up to you to say whether you will be
nervous, weak, sickly, or whether you shall
glow with vitality and strength. It is now
possible to prolong your life and rule your
health just as you govern your actions. You
can throw off the shackles of advancing age
—step back into youth—become virile, vigor-
ous. You can rekindle your old energies,
put more vim into your work and play, and
make every organ of your body act as Nature
intended.
Modern methods of eating, lack of exercise
cause weakness and flabbiness of the abdo-
minal organs. Particles of decaying food
waste are not completely evacuated. This
waste encrusts and accumulates in the
creases of the intestine, and harbors disease-
breeding germs, which enter the system and
pollute the blood. Result is dreaded self-
poisoning (autoxima) , from which nine out
of ten suffer —caused by hidden and unsus-
pected constipation. This self-poisoning is
the origin of constipation, headaches, indi-
gestion, gas in stomach and bowels, catarrh,
weakness, rheumatism, neuritis, eczema,
pimples, etc., and hosts of other ailments.
You and practically everyone else is more
or less in the grip of autoxima. But you
can change this by washing away the germ-
laden mass with COLOSEPTIC. It promptly
rids you of self-poisoning. Gently, without
griping, COLOSEPTIC loosens and dis-
solves . off the encrusted waste, and then
passes it smoothly out of the body. It rids
the system of all circulatory impurities
through the other outlets provided for that
purpose—the kidneys—pores of the skin —
and respiratory apparatus. You can get
COLOSEPTIC in regular full-size jars, from
all chemists. Send 1/- stamps or postal
note to COLOSEPTIC CO.. LTD., Dept.
G 4, 24 Jamieson Street, Sydney, for a
Special Demonstration Jar of COLOSEPTIC,
and the interesting book “Autoxima.”
Footbrawl
The N.S.W. Rugby Union side in Queens-
land had an exceptionally good run, winning
all its four matches, though the opening
affair with Queensland was a narrow squeak.
In addition to taking the two big games,
Brisbane was easily beaten by 24 to 8, and
at Warwick, another Darling Downs centre,
a team of local players were downed 22-5.
The Union will not figure in any more big
stuff—the match at Sydney Cricket Ground
with Victoria being a thing of the past—
until June 25, when N.S.W. will engage the
All Blacks in the opening game of the
latter’s tour.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Drayton”: The last-minute inclusion of
some extra Toowoomba players in the inter-
state Rugby Union match played at Too-
woomba (B. 18/5/’32) is likely to bear good
fruit. One of the absentees in Brisbane was
the scrum-half, a position which the Banana-
landers have found it hard to fill this year.
His substitute, Broadfoot, played such a
sterling game against the Ma Staters that ho
is pretty sure to catch a trip south in August.
Lie is one of a family which has made a great
name for itself in Queensland football, both
in the Union and League codes.
* * * *
“Mark” : Melbourne C. G. has been closed
for regrading in view of the next cricket
season. The announcement that the fami-
liar gates will open again on June 11, with
the Victorian-South Australian match as the
attraction, has uplifted the heart of every
barracker. Victorian football on the M.C.C.
ground has a flavor quite apart from that
discernible elsewhere.
* * :!: *
“Cross Keys”: Dr. C. B. Sangster, who
has decided to retire from amateur Australian
League football in Adelaide, is one of the
best athletes St. Peter’s College and Adelaide
University have produced. He was at his
best in football, and figured in the Uni. side
for six years, being skipper for the last four,
while for the same period he led the inter-
state amateur team. A big and powerful
ruclcer, he was meticulously fair in his
methods, and in 1930 won the coveted H'one
medal for the best and fairest player in the
League.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Vic Richardson, who was in his
time captain of S.A. at football as well as
cricket, has been chairman of the Football
Umpires Board since its foundation. He has
been given leave of absence for his visit to
Canada as cricket captain.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: Australian Davis Cup
players, after a not very convincing start,
came through their opening match with Cuba
with success, not losing a match. Hopman
beat Morales in the second round of singles
in a game full of double faults. Crawford
could not play, the asthma which has always
been his bane keeping him out of the game.
It is reassuring to note that Cliff Sproule,
who took his place, beat the Cuban Vollmer
in three straight sets—on cabled figures,
quite the best performance of the match.
Sproule’s selection for this tour has been
criticised severely in some quarters. It is
not out of the question that he may prove
the success of the team. A sound player,
with all the strokes, he is an indomitable
fighter as well as a student of the game.
* * # :!s
“Cut Shot”: By the time this is in print
the Australian Davis Cup team will be on
the eve of its momentous match against
America. To win will amount to practical
certainty of the right to challenge the cup-
holders, France, in Paris. To lose will mean
that, though the side may snoop round the
British and Continental tournaments gather-
ing appearance money, its name will be Mud
as far as the great international contest is
concerned. The result of the Australia-
America match depends entirely <in Crawford
and Vines. Vines has had a bad spin in minor
contests, but anyone accounting him a dud
for that would unhesitatingly take the advice
of an urger at the ponies. If Crawford can
beat Vines —and, given good health and the
will to win, there seems no reason why he
should not do so—Hopman, Sproule and co.
should between them account for the rest.
There is probably no better doubles combi-
nation in the world to-day than Crawford
and Hopman at their top. It is in the
singles, however, that the match will be lost
or won.
* * * *
“Let” : The annual match between N.S.W.
and Victorian tenniseers in Sydney saw Ma
win on her head. The tourney was notable,
though, for the promise shown by the young
Victorian player J. Purcell. He is a stylist
witli first-class stroke production, a strong
server and sound overhead. He made that
accomplished player Aubrey Willard look
like an amateur in their match. Ma won the
men’s games by 18 rubbers to 3. The women
also scored heavily with 12 rubbers to some-
thing infinitesimally indefinite.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: Wizard Smith, after many
weary weeks of waiting on Kaitaia Beach, in
Maoriland, to get a smooth track for his
attempt on the world’s motoi’-car speed
record, has thrown in the towel for the
present. He has returned to Sydney and his
Harkness machine will shortly follow him.
The beach has never been known to
behave in this disappointing fashion since
Maui came to Maoriland, and the dry, smooth
conditions so characteristic of it have not
been in evidence for months. Smith had
bad luck in his final attempt, the carburetter
catching fire when he was travelling at 170
m.p.h. Another try is to be made after the
M.L. winter rains.
* ❖ ❖
“Pore du Chemin”: There has been a re-
crudescence lately of attempts by motor-
drivers to lower records on the public roads.
I 1 lit' police of several States have frequently
stated their intention of dealing with
offenders against the speed laws, but no
action has ever been taken. The National
Roads and Motorists’' Association and the
Royal Axxtomobile Club of Australia have
again decided that the occasion is ripe for
registering their definite objection ..to this
speed-hog practice. They did that once
before.
“Deagon”: Queensland is still bent on
having the Australian Tourist Trophy races
for motor-cycles held in the northern State
next year, and has put in a formal applica-
tion for the events. Failing this being
granted, Bananaland has asked that the 1934
races be earmarked for their State. It is
about time something of the sort was done.
Victoria and N.S.W. have done their best
to monopolise these important events, though
South Australia and Tasmania have been
graciously allowed a nibble. Queensland has
produced many motor-cycle riders of the
first class, as the history of track-racing in
this country and Britain proves, and it is
up to them to get a turn at the big road
shows.
* * * *
“Sprocket” : One of the early results of the
depression in Sydney was the sudden re-
surrection of the push-bike. Apparently they
have been experiencing the same thing in
Britain. At the latest estimate there
are now over seven million cyclists wheeling
Delaney and Blay, who put up a
wonderful fight at the Stadium.
Two of their supporters, whose verbal
display was almost as good.
Mclnstoush smiled all the
while.
“Can’t separate ’em,
r/enelmen !”
“Hooray!”
about the roads and streets of England, or
more than the entire population of Aus-
tralia. That famous old institution the
Cycle Touring Club, which had for some
time taken on a somewhat dodoish aspect,
has added 20,000 members to its list within
the past 12 months—not surprising when
one considers that a used machine in good
order can be bought in Britain to-day
for 30s.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hamilton”: Queensland’s eighth open golf
championship drew golfers from far and near
to the Bananaland metropolis, the N.S.W.
professionals fielding a specially strong con-
tingent. The winner was C. Brown, profes-
sional at the Goodna (Q.) club, who was the
holder of the title. Brown’s four rounds were
74, 71, 72, 69, a trifle under four sti-okes a
hole. This must be counted a great perform-
ance, since Brown was three strokes down
to the N.S.W. crack Tommy Howard when
the fourth round began. Howard filled second
place, only a stroke behind the winner, and
J. Cohen, in the past a caddie at Moore Park
(N.S.W.), -was third with a 290 card. The
best of the amateurs also learned his golf
as a caddie. This was N. von Nida, of
Queensland, who filled fourth place with a
score of 292. H. R.. Sinclair, who showed
brilliantly in some of the preliminary tour-
neys, faded right out of the picture, while
C. Gray, open champion of N.S.W., also ran.
* * * *
“Hoylake” : Though there are 252 entrants
for the British open golf championship, only
eight Americans are among them. Certainly
the holder of the title, the American-Scot
Tommy Armour, is one; still, this is a poor
show for Uncle Sam. No Australians are
facing the barrier, but entrants include
players from France, South America, Japan,
the Malay States and Jersey, this last not
accounting itself of the Empire though within
it. For the first time the event will be held
on the Sandwich course, which is 7608 yards
long with a bogey of 79. It is a seaside
course, with plenty of wind as a rule, so more
than one reputation is likely to take a toss.
“Prestwick”: Walter Hagen experienced
a couple of shocks last week. One was when
his entry for the British open golf champion-
ship arrived three days late and was thrown
out. Walter has won this event four times,
and no doubt feels a proprietary interest in
it. Still, the refusal of his entry will do
him no harm. H'e has achieved an intex--
national reputation for inconsiderate unpxinc-
tuality, and this happening should “learn”
him, as the school-kids say. The second
shock was the topping of his long-standing
record for the Mooretown course in the
Leeds £lOOO tourney. Hagen’s figures stood
at 69, but two English professionals, 11. A.
Whitcombe and Tom Green, returned a 66
apiece in the annual event.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer” : I note by the Sydney papers
that my old cobber “Mick” Terry, trainer
and coach of the famous Jack Donaldson,
has been busy in Sydney coaching the
Olympic runners, of whom he is to take charge
for the Los Angeles Games, One critic takes
exception to the fact that he is showing
George Golding some hurdling points by
sending him over a worsted thread instead of
wooden hurdles. The dodge is an old one.
Not only does it obviate the risk of a hurdler
putting himself out of action by “kneeing”
the wooden battens, but it cultivates his eyes
to such an extent that he can get his clear-
ance to a fraction of an inch. As every
gun in the game knows, every quarter-inch
saved in height when going over the sticks
counts in the finish at the tape.
* * * #
“Blade” : June 4 will see the annual eight-
oar race between the Australian Universi-
ties for the Oxford and Cambridge Cup. This
will be held at Franklin, on_the Iluon liiver
in Tassy, the pot at
present being in the
keeping of Sydney
Uni., which won it
in Brisbane last
year. Only three of
last year’s crew are
in the boat this time,
though Lahey, row-
ing 4, stroked the
Queen sland Uni.
eight last year. An
early departure from
Sydney will give the
Welshmen nearly a
fortnight to get the
feel of the course.
Westralia is already
in the Speck, and
there is a full entry
of all the Australian
universities.
sit sic
“S hrews bury”:
L. Buxton and W.
Sambell, the Vic-
torian oarsmen who
respectively stroked
and rowed No. 4 in
the recent Cambridge
eight which defeated
Oxford, have added
to their fame by win-
ning the Magdalene
pairs, one of the star
turns at the Cam-
bridge “May Week”
festivities. The
British press is
strongly urging the
two to enter for the
classic Silver Goblets
at Henley, one jour-
nal referring to pair-
rowing as “the
highest form of oarsmanship.” The claim
is not exaggerated. In pairs there is no
cox and the course has to be kept by perfect
co-ordination between the rowci’s. Steering
a sculling-shell is one of the hardest things
a single sculler has to learn about his job,
and in the case of pairs the difficulty is
intensified.
* # * *
“Aigburth”: There are less unlikely things
than that Australians may see their well-
liked friend Percy Chapman included in the
coming English Eleven. He had a lean time
with the bat last year, but this season, so
far all in favor of the bowlers, he has been
running up a chain of spanking innings, all
made in his usual hurry-up style. Inciden-
tally, he was chosen to captain the Maryle-
bone club side against All-India last week,
and it will be interesting to see whether he
or Jardiue will lead England against the
visitors from Hind in the single Test game
at Lox-ds which begins on June 25.


e
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Oauitieiu,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
***&&&«»
« wjvS?
-s£sg2!3Ss:*ss2£"
;TVOVJ n :
ol
ssss-gS^sgSS
wf*ss
* ecl L ? U1
V a v \xn, -Buyers d ® bs tantra
v***** ft X^ t)V tinfs a® is -woit
L’XU r
to
itrai
\ -a «ottt
SSir •»;' -i^^ssrvfcffis
ve bate. ttvest i g atro a ot ised
ba^. 0 " tisation- se s a nu B^ 06 ’ i
db °ume. \
&. r^f>r^’*l k dc f^ w
s?*&- <* tv iinnn
mi l 11
S 3
mm
, ?vl» i
I
Circumstances
and CHOICE
CIRCUMSTANCES compel some people to holiday at
winter-time.
Others do it from choice—they’ve ski-ed and tobogganed
through exhilarating days and danced through cosy evenings
at Mt. Buffalo National Park before.
During the four weeks of the official Mt. Buffalo snow-sports season
in July-August, the tariff at the luxurious Chalet for those staying more
than 48 hours is only 17s. 6d. a day. At other times it is 15s. Book
now at Government Tourist Bureau, Queen s Walk, Melbourne; or
Martin Place, Sydney.
The Chalet, MT. BUFFALO National Park (Vic.)-
best holiday!
-for Australia’s
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
Wliat he was waiting for came early on
Saturday morning to Dr. Arthur, the
mother’s friend—Minister of Health he was
in the Bavin Government. Until the last
day he managed from his bed to do a little
for others; his last enthusiasm was to pro-
vide wireless sets for sick people —he knew
how greatly a set helped to pass the weary
hours. iCanon Hammond, with whom “the
little doctor” had done much philanthropic
work, was an almost daily visitor; and the
progress of the scheme for getting unem-
ployed on small blocks of land cheered the
patient tremendously. One of the Canon’s
last stories made him very happy. Arrange-
ments had been made to put a man, his wife
and three children on one of the unemployed
settlements; but just before the time for
their transfer the wife and mother died.
The man reported that relations had taken
two of the children, but the youngest, a two-
year-old, he would not part with. Hammond
set to work to get over that difficulty. On
the settlement he found a married couple
with eight children; it was suggested that
room might be made for one more. _ There
wasn’t a moment’s hesitation. “Why, of
course. Bring the poor little motherless mite
tb us.” Brought it was, and the father was
provided with a camp next door.
The wives of the new Consul and Vice-
Consul for France- —the quartette of hus-
bands and wives arrived by the Eridan last
w T eek —have a busy time ahead of them, for
neither of the ladies speaks English. At'
least there will be this to say for their
vocabulary after 12 months’ struggling with
domestic help and tradesmen—it may not
be so academic as if acquired in youth at
the Sorbonne, but it will be a dashed sight
more colorful. The new Consul is Edgar
Dussap, the Vice-Consul Albert Zarzecki.
Mrs. Dussap is an authoress with several
novels to her credit, two among them, very
well-known, being “La Passagere” and
“L’lnconnue Bien Aimee.” She and her
husband have mingled in the Consular sets
of Turkey and Greece.
The Aerial Pageant had to finish off in a
tailspin set to jazz, so friends of aero-
nautics landed at the Blaxland Galleries
one night last week and danced by the
light of the electrics and the dazzlings rays
from the table of silverware plucked by
competitors from the terraces of air.
The trophies were presented during the
evening by Captain Johnson, Acting-Con-
troller of Civil Aviation, P. IT. Vyner, who
banded over the tlii'ee Vyner memorial
cups, and C. W. A. Scott, who passed their
cup to the “Hell divers.” Lady Chaytor,
small, fair and active, came to the party,
after gracing the Stadium for an hour;
Major and Mrs. de Havilland were among
the entertainers, she in black lace and a
glittering lame coat; and president Geoff-
rey Hughes and his wife brought a party.
Dresses were almost all new, and many were
backless. (Though an artist mould the
dress, forget not, O sister, that the potter
Nature made the back, and, as old Omar
observed, the hand of the potter sometimes
slips!)
Bertie Kelly had a birthday last week,
and Mrs. Bertie arranged the most dazzling
dinner party for him. The initials of the
items on the menu spelled the host’s age—
-57 —and at the end of the dinner a life-
size violin was brought with a great flourish
to table. It turned out to be the cake,
caramel-coated.
With 2000 people anxious to buy tickets,
where could the Undergrads’ ball be housed
but in the Palais Royal? By nine o’clock
the dancing floor was as closely patterned
as a crazy quilt, the pattern blossoming and
mingling or slipping into a gaily-colored edge
to the tune of Commem. songs. The Uni-
versity’s blue and gold floated everywhere,
and was not to be sneezed at in the wide
blue streamers and the gold wattle that
decked the official box. Here Dr. C. R.
Laverty, president of the Undergrads’ Repre-
sentative Council, with Dr. Beryl Plummer,
of Melbourne, and Nancy Burton and A. D.
Gillies (council’s vice-president), received the
Vice-Chancellor (Dr. R. S. Wallace) and Mrs.
Wallace, Prof. Peden and daughter Mar-
garet and other notables. In this group Mrs.
Muscio and Miss Isobel Fidler looked femi-
nine and fluffy, the one in sweeping black
lace, the other in pale rose lace, the sleeves
of the short jacket deeply banded in fur.
Dr. Beryl Plummer’s dress was worth a
second look. Of vellum chiffon, with a
shoulder cape of caramel velvet, it was long
and flared, and just above its billows on the
right side it wore an organdie rose. The
professorial Osborns were among the
dancers, her burgundy georgettes warmed
with the usual fur borders. Pretty amateur
actress Adele Quinn wore a graceful sea-
blue scarf with her black satin frock;
Philip Game, junior, brought a party of
young things; all the colleges within the
Uni. were officially represented. Most of the
dresses were backless, the noise was terrific,
the music up to the minute.
It was quite a relief to get away from the
dim lighting of the Middle Ages and come
to the more brightly illuminated, more sophis-
ticated Rome of Tosca’s time. Anna Surani,
as Tosca, was a bit of a surprise; either the
long green Empire frock of" the first act
was particularly contrived for Surani’s
figure, or Anna lias been slimming. She
looked her best of this season when, her
pretty face and fine eyes framed with feath-
ered bonnet, she stepped in, one hand lightly
clasping a tall cane, the other hand an arm
filled with roses for the altar of the
Madonna. Later on, when she circled Scar-
pia’s table, questing the knife to slay the
treacherous policeman, she managed to look
sinister in a frock of black moire that trailed
a train about a mile long. A black velvet
cloak collared in ermine wrapped her about,
when, after leaving such a trail of finger-
prints as a mere apprentice detective couldn’t
fail to find (she wipes her bloody hands on
the napkin, she drops the knife carelessly,
she brings not one but two candlesticks and
a cross to place beside the prostrate Scarpia),
she takes her departure.
When Sir Philip and Lady Game, escorted
by manager Charlie Westmacott, walked to
their places in the circle before the curtain
rose on “Tosca,” the house broke into a
frenzy of clapping. The applause had all
the unexpectedness and deafening quality of
a tropical storm. Whatever the individual
reasons behind the clamor, Sir Philip and
his lady had to rise twice and bow before
the noise died away. With the vice-regals
came the Alan Footts, of Melbourne (she was
Betliia Anderson) and her mother, Mrs. A.
T. Anderson. Songbirds Paliughi, Castagna
and Molly do Gunst were boxed together, and
at the last curtain cast a garden of roses
down about the feet of the triumphant
Surani. Nora Hill, who made the dearest
little Gilda (away from the footlights she is
Mrs. George Warnecke), sat in the circle
as colorful and featherweight as her trills
wero in “Rigoletto” a day or two before.
Here’s Grace Scobie, with her blue eyes
and a head full of politics and economics,
who is taking time off from her job in the
Department of Labor and Industry for a
three weeks’
whirlwind
campaign in
the Bondi elec-
torate. So far
she seems to
have the
brightest hope
among the
three women
announced as
c a n di d ates ;
Dr. Lucy Gul-
let and Mrs.
Ruby Duncan,
the other two,
are up against
tougher pro-
position s.
Grace is a
strong speaker,
logical and
cool, and you’ll
always find as
many men as
women listening to her arguments. She
comes from old political stock —her father
was Labor member for Wentworth in the
happy days when Labor was the. working-
man and -woman’s friend. . She is a well-
known club woman, and is recognised in
public and private affairs as having wisdom
in her head and truth on her tongue. It
would be a great feather in the sex’s cap
to have such a one to represent it in Parlia-
ment.
Back to Sydney for three months came
Marjorie Hambridge, very shining of hair
and eye, by the Cathay. Marjorie,
only daughter of the Frank Hambridges,
is studying the violin at the Royal
Academy, and went to London equipped
with an Australian instrument —the one
she still uses.. One day when she was
in the shop of Alfred Hill, London’s
big maker and dealer in violins, she hap-
pened to mention she was a student from
Australia, and played a Griffen instrument.
Where was the violin made? In Australia.
Next time she called that way would she
bring it in? She did so, and the heads of
the firm held quite a conference over it.
“Yes, it was an excellent instrument. Not
perhaps so excellent as some European
instruments, but to come out of Australia —
remarkable!”
The academy is not far from Regent’s
Park, and the thrill of every day riding by
’bus from Hampstead Heath to this six-
storey building, whose stone walls enclose
musical aspirations of every nation, never
fails. Neither does her work with teacher
Marjorie Hayward, whom she reached
through the brother of her Sydney teacher,
Gerald Walenn. Then there’s practice xn
Sir Henry Wood’s orchestra. They played
Edward German’s Norwich Festival Sym-
phony in the Queen’s Hall at their last con-
cert, keyed up by the knowledge that the
composer himself was a listener.
It isn’t all hard work being a student.
There’s the Russian Opera, with Chaliapin
singing and Sir Thomas Beecham conduct-
ing, or perhaps there is a 8.8. C. or Berlin
symphony orchestral concert, or there are
the Proms., or Oscar Asche in his richly-
mounted production of “Julius Caesar,” or
there’s a French or Italian exhibition where
you can visit again a picture you have seen
in the Louvre or in Florence, or perhaps
you take a morning among the glories that
are Kenwood and see the rich, suave colors
of an original Rembrandt. Or, for a change,
you have a glorious morning on the Thames
seeing the Oxford and Cambridge crews.
Last New Year was spent with Lord and
Lady Ducie, in Gloucestershire, and this
meant the experience of riding to hounds.
This Sydney girl has found London as
teeming with music and color and art as any
Continental city; but, then, she’s had excel-
lent guides in the Walenn family. There
are 10 Walenns, all interested in some ex-
pression of art, and each a leader in his
own line. One of the family helped to
found Roedean, the famous girls’ school:
one is a black-and-white artist; music and
the stage claim the others—the latest pro-
duction of “Peg o’ My Heart” was a Walenn
show.
This is one of Australia’s, youngest doctors
of science; she is Ida Alison Brown, and
her subject is
geology. She
has made a
survey of the
South Coast
from Nowra to
Eden that is
one of the
prides of the
Linnean So-
ciety. The
study covers
an area of 100
by about 50
miles, and her
thesis, which
had special
bearing on the
origin and re-
lationships of
the igneous
rocks, gained
her her docto-
rat e. Miss
Brown was
from 1922 to the end of 1926 a demonstrator
at the University; from 1927 to 1931 she has
held the Uinnean-Macleay Fellowship in
geology. She hails from Ooogee. Dorothy
Welding made this little picture of her.
Who has yet forgotten little Stella Marina,
one of the old Repertory Society’s prettiest
amateurs? Stella belongs to a well-known
squatting family in N. S. Wales, but has
been living for some years in Perth at the
rectory, Queen’s Park, with her brother
Leonard, and has herself just decided to enter
the church by way of matrimony. The
bridegroom-to-be is William Patrick, an Eng-
lishman, rector of St. Hilda’s, North Perth,
and chaplain to the Archbishop. Wedding
bells ring in late June.
“Traviata” marks another step nearer our
own time. Authors are becoming aware of
other ways of killing off a heroine than a
prick of the dagger or a draught from a
poison ring. By the time this story opens
medicine had left its mark on the conscious-
ness, so we have Violetta dying in her bed,
burnt up by disappointed love and T.B. Up
to the circle and into the stalls the old com-
pany of first-nighters rustled again on Satur-
day, and, suddenly looking across the circle,
this Letter saw, among the living, the smiling
ghosts of other opera-nights, a radiant Melba
among them.
Were the garments paraded at the Lady
iChaytor matinee the design of that busy,
bustling little blonde? They were, at any
rate, so like the wearing apparel to be seen
in the big department stores that one couldn’t
tell the difference. Why are Australian
women so trained to the idea that only the
garments of London or Paris are fit to- wear?
We all know there are a handful of fashion
studios whence the clothes edicts of the
season issue. But many a frock that’s
marked Paris, London or Vienna has never
even glimpsed the Worth, Chanel or Moly-
neux stores. Given the designs, the local
cutter and needlewoman are as capable as
any overseas to do the right thing by the
Australian figure and deportment.
The matinee was very dull or a great suc-
cess according to your degree of interest in
raiment being worn more or less beauti-
fully by amateur mannequins. Two of the
most sparkling song numbers were sung by
Nora Hill and Grace Angelau, the theatre
was crowded and artistically decorated, and
the promised afternoon-tea failed to material-
ise. The Far-West Children’s Health
Scheme and the Industrial Blind Institute
benefit.
By the Niagara last week arrived Mrs.
J. W. Bellah, who was Bernice Vert. She
is the younger daughter of Mrs. J. W. Vert,
the elder being the wife of Dean Talbot. Ber-
nice, who made her beginning as a picture
actress in “The Blue Mountains Mystery,”
afterwards went to Hollywood, and later
played lead in one of the well-known stock
companies. The Heifetz family were among
her great friends in New York, and it was
in New York she married. Her husband is
a well-known short-story and scenario writer.
Perhaps because the Forum Club is next
door to a real theatre, the St. James, it has
developed a stage of its own. This will be
opened to-night (Wednesday) by Chief Jus-
tice Street, when the programme will be
Sutro’s “Open Door” and “The Lovely
Miracle,” by Phillip Johnston, both pro-
duced by Mrs. Hope Suttor. Mrs. W. J.
Chandler is responsible for designing the
little playhouse and its decorations.
Aletta Lewis, the striking-looking English
artist whose pictures, whether you liked them
of not, always gave visitors to the art shows
something to talk about, was married re-
cently in London to Denis Dunlop, a sculp-
tor. After Aletta left Sydney she went to
Samoa, and after that, on her return ti>
London, she colored her studio all pink and
gold—to get something of the effect of the
light and sun she had left behind her.
“Black” Sandy Jaques—brother of “Red”
Sandy, ex-M.L.A., and Charles, of Stephen,
Jaques and Stephen—has found a new
method of defeating the depresh. lie has
arranged with the Prince Edward that as
often as he can deliver a party of 20 or
more for the show which starts at 5.30 p.m.,
stalls in any part of the auditorium will be
available at a shilling each. Young men in
banks, offices and the like have been jumping
at this chance of taking their best-girls to
a show under a system that doesn’t hit their
depleted pockets hard. There have been
parties of 30 and over. The lads, or lasses,
as the case may be, decide which afternoon
they want to go, get in touch with Mr.
Jaques, and he does the rest.
Some Brisbane doings :
The Firm opened its Brisbane Cilsullivan season
at His Majesty’s with “The Gondoliers.” Gregory
Stroud was off color and the - Australian Clifford
Cowley did well in his place. In the audience
were Administrator Blair and his lady, Mr. arid
Mrs. W. 11. Cummins, the J. B. Brigdens, the E.
Dolmans and Mr. and Mrs. J. E. England.
There was an outcrop of furs at Ascot races.
Mrs. Macgroarty was in ruby and brown cheeked
crCpe de Chine with a Burgundy-red hat. Mrs.
Gregory Archbutt (Berenice Cadell-Garrick that was;
she now has her home in Ilong Kong) wore black
with white vestette. Mrs. J. Cadell Garrick was in
sapphire marocain; Mrs. D’Arcy Winten (Smith-
field) wore black and white; Mrs. Bimbah Edkins
chose brown with brown furs. Black was worn by
Mrs. A. F. T. Ruthning; Margaret Cummins chose
jade and lime; Constance Cummins navy; Phyllis
Atlee-Hunt picked brown and rose; Cecily Cadell-
Garrick, Oriental crepe de Chine.
Stanley, son of the late Samuel Bee, of Stan-
thorpe, married Frederica, daughter of the T. I.
Merrys, in the Warwick Methodist church, the bride
wearing white mariette and hand-broidered veil, -with
a wreath of lilies of the valley. Marion Merry
’maided in cornflower-blue.
Melbourne Old Boys had a regatta, and afterwards
there was a dinner party at Lennons, many of the
women present wearing rosettes of public school
colors. School songs were played by the band.
At All Saints’, J. M. Hamilton, son of the J. M.
Hamiltons, Fairfield, married Irene (Pat), daughter
of the D. J. McEncroes, South Brisbane. The bride
was in ivory satin with an embroidered tulle veil.
Rita Simpson and Winifred Thomas attended her in
apricot georgette. Beryl Thomas, in powder-blue,
was trainbearer and Ronda Bond was flower-giil.
A party arranged by the Presbyterian Manse Club
was held in the lounge of the Canberra for the
ministers attending the Assembly and their whe-.
Mrs. W. S. Laurie, the new president, received,
wearing brown with gold stitchery. Mrs. Thomas
Hardy, the Moderator’s wife, was in navy and white,
and Mrs. Millar presented her with pink and white
roses, welcoming her on behalf of the club. Theie
was a musical programme.
The Old Victorians had a party in the Jenolan
Cafe ; the Victorian girl rowers were the guests of
honor’. There was a musical programme.


m
m
r
r Prices £lB/18/0 to £5O/10/0
Send enquiries to local Dealer or
A. G. HEALING Ltd.
Manufacturers and Master Distributors
(Wholesale Only)
MELBOURNE: 1674 73 Franklin St. C.l
ADELAIDE : Cr. Pirie &. Pulteney Sts.
SYDNEY : 164470 Goulburn Street
'Retail T Distributors
MELBOURNE : Healings Pty. Ltd., 101 Elizabeth
Street, C.l
HOBART and LAUNCESTON: Medhurst and
Sons Pty. Ltd.
PERTH: Bay’s Transport Ltd., 917 Hay Street
Queensland “Dealers write to—
R. J. ROSE, C/o T. W. MOSS &. CO.
121 Eagle Street, Brisbane
EMINENT MUSICIANS say
m
ea
GOLDEN VOICED RADIO
Is different
Mr. GUSTAVE SLAPOFFSKI, Celebrated Orchestra Conductor
of J. C- 'Williamson Opera fame
“I had the pleasure to-day of hearing several items from a
Healing Golden Voiced Radio Receiver The reproduction
was amazing Particularly the clarity with which one could
distinguish the various instruments of the orchestra .... much
more so than I have ever heard from any other radio receiver.”
Mr. GEORGE ENGLISH, Conductor, 'Victorian e Postal Institute
Choir, probably the foremost Choral Conductor in Australia:
"Its transmission of the voice is remarkable, inasmuch as it
preserves the peculiar characteristics of the various singers,
known as 4 timbre *.. .. Another feature is that in concerted
music the whole of the chords are heard, not the melody only,
as in most sets.”
m
HANDY HINTS for the FARM
How Many Subjects Does This
Shilling Book Cover'?
Here is the Index of subjects under the letter S :
è
Sheep (continued)
•‘off the board” ..
pecked
teeth ..
among wheat
Sheepskins
to dye
and rats
Show, preparing for ..
Silage . .
pits
for cows ..
Silos
trench
Skim milk, food value
Skins, rabbit ~
Sledge for hay
Slugs
Smokehouse, bacon ..
Snakebite
Snakeskin, to cure ..
Soap, sand
toilet
without caustic ..
yellow
Soil renovation
sour
Soldering, paste flux ..
Sore shoulders, horse
Sore eyes, dogs
Sore mouths, lambs ..
Sow, brood
Sparrow trap
Spaghetti, to make ..
Spiced beef
Spider, red-back
Splint, horse
Split hoof
Sprays, spreaders
Stable, first aid
Stinkwort
Strangles
Strawberries
Stumps, to pull out ..
Strychnine poison, dogs
humans
Sub. clover
as binder
Sucker-lambs, marketing
Suckering
Sudan grass ..
Sunstroke
Super, in dry years ..
in Mallee ..
Super, bags, to clean
Sweet potato
Swingle-bars
79
46
59
77
82
80
92
32
32
74
36
77
32
70
88
61
90
10
10
52
68
10
92
3
3
24
72
89
Every effort has been used to make the book of the greatest practical value on every kind of farm.
The experienced farmer will know hundreds of the things in it. It is the few he doesn t <uiow or has
forgotten that will make it worth pounds to him.
Price, 1/-; by post, 1/2. From the head office of “The Bulletin, 252 George Street, Sydney; or from
any branch office: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; James Place,
Adelaide; 33 Barrack Street, Perth; 14 Panama Street, Wellington (N.Z.).
OR FROM ANY NEWSAGENT.


HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartment?
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM T 9 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. O. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
AGENCIES
A valuable feature of the Commonwealth Savings Bank service
is the establishment of agencies in practically all Post Offices
in Australia, as well as in many business houses. Altogether
there are nearly 5000 of these agencies in the Commonwealth,
from which it will be readily seen that the Bank’s service is
extended wherever there is population.
In every city, town and district, therefore, Savings Bank
facilities are available to men, women and children, for the
Savings Account may be used by all.
Wherever you may live, wherever you may travel within the
Commonwealth, you can utilise the Savings Account for your
profit and convenience.
CoMonwealtb Savinas JBaiik of Australia
{Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
“ Mother and baby
both doing well”
These are magic words
that have brought happi-
ness and joy into many a
home.
To ensure healthy mothers
and bonny babies, robust
and well-developed, it is
essential that a spoonful of
Radio-Malt should form
a part daily of the
mother’s diet. It will
safeguard her against in-
fections at the critical time
and lay the foundation of
sound health in the child.
RADIO-MALT
Ask your doctor about it.
è
If your chemist does
not stock Radio-Malt
write to
THE BRITISH DRUG
HOUSES ( Australia )
LTD., 250 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
> SOCIAL NOTES-ALL
LADYS LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD,
it Etc. Etc. Etc. a
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES ©2
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
The afternoon was cold, breezy and
showery for the Williamstown races, but the
attendance was good. Warm frocks covered
with warmer coats and allied with felt or
smart little knitted woollen hats were the
only feminine wear. Mrs. J. J. Liston, wife of
the chairman of the W.R.C., was trimly
clad in a fur-collared diagonal tweed coat
in two shades of brown, topped by a match-
ing felt hat. Secretary J. F. Nagle’s wife
came in all black with a touch of beige hue.
Mrs. Ben Chaffey was accompanied by Miss
McPherson. Others who watched the racing
were Mrs. A. V. Kewney, Mrs. Murray Hef-
fernan, of Sydney, the Percy Blackbourns,
Mrs. V. J. Nicholas and Dr. and Mrs. Barry
Thomson. Lud Mayor Smith was in the
committee box.
At the opening of the show of antiques
there were speeches by Knight Frank Clarke
and Bernard Hall. A posy was handed to
the Clarke lady, who wore the palest of
mauve satin with coat of deeper hue. There
were also bouquets for Mrs. Harry Emmer-
ton and the president of the Free Kinder-
garten Union, Mrs. T. a’Beckett. Among
those gathered on the dais amid Louis furni-
ture and miniature box-trees were Lud
Mayor Smith, Mrs. Norton Grimwade, the
Spencer lady and hon. organiser Marcus
W. Martin. Some young folk roamed
about in the garh of other days selling cata-
logues or just being decorative, among them
Jill Page and Betty Wilkinson, the three
Norman Brookes daughters, Cora O’Farrell,
Margery Stevens, Rosemary Downes and
Ruth Russell. Mrs. Ross Grey Smith (she
was Betty Fairbairn), Marie de Bavay,
Nancy Syme, Marjorie Millear and Helen
Rennie directed the supper arrangements
below stairs. In the crowd at the open-
ing were General Chauvel and his lady, Mrs.
Bundock, Admiral Hyde and Mrs. Hyde, she
in black chiffon and black velvet coat, Mrs.
Colin Fraser, Mrs, Fred Thiel, Mrs. Oswald
Syme, the Morell lady and daughter Sheila,
Mrs. W. Merry, the Richard Lintons and
Prof, and Mrs. Woodruff.
Mrs. Alec Russell has sent to the Chinese
section a screen in which the fruit and floral
decoration is appliqued in crystals and jade.
Mrs. Edward Stevens shows a couple of
brown Nankin plates from a set made for
the Duke of Connaught. There are a dinner-
set brought here by Governor Latrobe, a wee
sunshade that belonged to Queen Victoria,
a couple of elegant spinets and a four-poster
bed that dates back to 1601, with never a
scratch on its many black spirals.
At her Toorak home, Whernside, Mrs.
Colin Fraser collected some friends to give
a welcome to the wife of General Higgins,
of the Salvation Army. The guests were
members of the executive of the N.C.W. of
Victoria and Salvation Army officers. The
hostess, who is a vice-president of the N.C.W.,
chose a black-and-white effect. Mrs. I. H.
Moss, president of the N.C.W., gave thanks
to Mrs. Higgins for an address,
The nurses of the Victorian Eye and Ear
Hospital gave a dance at a near-by hall to
add to the institution’s funds. The matron,
Miss L. Jones, in black chiffon, was hos-
tess; Sister C. Kilmartins, in black velvet,
and Sybil Taggart, in powder-blue satin,
were hon. secs. Students of the Emily Mc-
Pherson Domestic College provided supper.
There was bridge for non-dancers. Lud
Mayor Smith was among the patrons.
Old Grammarians of Lowther Hall,
Essendon, staged a hop at Ormond Hall
for the school funds. The school’s dark
blue and gold figured in the decorations of
the ballroom. Mrs. Crosbie Morrison, presi-
dent of the dance committee, was gowned
in dark green satin with a matching velvet
coatee. Among her helpers were Pheme
Darbyshire, in cream taffeta, and Vera
Quinn, in myrtle-green satin.
At a bridge party and dance at Block
Court tea-house, to benefit the funds of St.
Anne’s Hall, William P. Carr, director of
the Melbourne Catholic Players, was a guest
of honor, and received a gift in recognition
of his services. Among the ladies who
engineered the gathering were Miss E. Cor-
mick, in black lace; Mrs. J. J. Daly, in
ruby-red satin; and Mrs. W. T. Crosbie, in
black lace and chiffon.
Chief Arbitration Judge Dethridge and his
wife gave a dance at Grosvenor for the
friends of their daughter Violet. A flowing
gown of black crepe romaine was worn by
Mrs. Dethridge, Violet sporting vellum-
tinted satin, with a shoulder-spray of
orchids. Phyllis Dethridge chose deep blue
chiffon and lace.
To add to the library funds of St.
Catherine’s the Old Girls’ Association gath-
ered for bridge at the school. Patricia
Peterson was hon. sec. of the party.
Mrs. Guy Innes, who has booked her return
passage to England by the Nieuw Holland
next month, was farewelled by Mrs. Hylton
Dale at the Quamby Club, the hostess wear-
ing a black lace gown with velvet coat and
millinery. Chiffon, flowered in mixed tints
and topped by a black hat and furs, was worn
by Mrs. Innes. In the throng of guests were
Mrs. Kaspar, mother of the hostess, the Best
lady, Mrs. J. Dye, Mrs. A. M. Dale and Mrs
Fred Bishop.
A charity ball at Fitzroy Town Hall,
engineered by a committee headed by Mayor
Apps, was well attended. The Mayoress,
who was in black lace, was handed a posy.
Hunting is now in full swing. Oaklands
Club had the first meet of the season, fol-
lowed by Melbourne. The latter club had
an ideal day, frosty and clear, and about
150 followed hounds. There was the usual
large entourage in motor-cars. Though many
a fox was disturbed there was no kill.
C. C. Moore, M.F.H'., and huntsman Norman
Wood kept the pack in order; Major-General
Johnston was among the followers in pink.
Wearing cyclamen-pink satin, a coatee
bordered with fur and a felt hat, Dorothy,
second daughter of the S. Gordon Moores,
of Bendigo, exchanged vows with Archibald,
youngest son of Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Johnson,
of London. Marjorie Alice Moore, in pale
green, was attendant maid. After-rejoicings
took place at the Windsor.
Mary, elder daughter of Otway Falkiner,
of Widgiewa (N.S.W.), was wedded at St.
John’s, Toorak, to Harold Weedon Benson,
whose station, Goondoobluie, Mogil Mogil, is
near the Queensland border. The chancel
was decked with crimson and gold chry-
santhemums and autumn foliage. The
bride trailed ivory satin, over which cas-
caded an old Limerick lace veil mounted on
tulle and anchored to a wreath of orange-
buds. The ’maids, Laure Falkiner, the
bride’s stepsister, and Betty Mills and
Audrey H'ordern, of Sydney, wore frocks of
hyacinth-blue lace with detachable capes and
floral wreaths circled their coiffures. They
carried bouquets of delphiniums and pansies.
Tea was spread at the Toorak home of Mr.
and Mrs. Fred Knight in honor of their
niece’s nuptials. Mr. and Mrs. Otway
Falkiner extended the welcoming hand —she
in a gown of dark green wool lace and a
velvet hat of the same shade. Mrs. Knight
sported golden-brown velvet gown and mil-
linery.
The exhibition of antiques at Rocke’s, in,
Collins-street, organised to help the Free
Kindergarten, has been liberally contributed
to by various friends of the cause, and includes
S heraton,
C h i ppendale,
Adam and
II e p p lewhite
f urniture
and china,
silver, pewter,
lacquer ware
and gorgeous
bric-a-brac of
many periods.
Dicken son-
M o nteath
here pictures
Mary Emmer-
ton, who shares
secreta rial
duties with
Lucy Rowe.
Miss Emmer-
ton, a gradu-
ate of Girton,
is a niece of
Mrs. Harry
E m m e r t on,
and partly an Australian by adoption, for
she resides sometimes in England and some-
times in Melbourne. Her present stay has
extended over some years. Besides her secre-
tarial work for the antique show, she has
undertaken the supervision of refreshment-
rooms downstairs, where charming maidens
in blue linen smocks will hand round
Devonshire teas —hot scones, strawberry
jam and cream. The improvised tearoom is
equipped with Jacobean dressers, willow-
pattern china and a brave show of pewter
and copper ware.
C. A. Hoadley, Chief Scout Commissioner
for this State, took to wife Rita, a daughter
of the late Mr. and Mrs. J. H. MoComb, of
Lilydale. The ceremony was at Holy Trin-
ity, Kew, and the bridegroom and his sup-
porters wore Scout uniform. The bride’s
gown was of velvet of the new deep blue
styled Adriatic, allied with lace of the same
shade and felt hat. Her two ’maids wore
velvet of a paler hue and felt millinery.
After-rejoicings were staged at the Windsor.
Mr. Hoadley is the principal of the Foots-
cray Technical School.
G. N. I. Morrison, son of Dr. and Mrs.
R. H. Morrison, of Vermont, and nephew
of “Chinese” Morrison, has been here on
furlough from his job in the Soudan civil
service. He was accompanied on his holi-
day by his wife, whose late father was a
Westralian medico. Mrs. Morrison remained
in W.A. with her mother, Mrs. Trethowan,
while her husband visited relatives m Mel-
bourne.
In the Loreto Players’ performance of
“Milestones” Wyn Brehny and Claire
Coffey, who wore frilled muslin crinolines in
the first act, played leading roles cleverly,
and Philip Russell and Tom Minogue were
well in the picture.
Margery King, pictured here by Spencer
Shier, a re-
cent addition
to Victoria’s
Bar, is carry-
in g on a
family tradi-
tio n. Her
late father,
Thomas King,
was a part-
ner in Gavan
Duffy and
King. The
new Portia
was a student
of Loreto
Abbey, Mary’s
Mount, Bal-
larat, and
graduated in
law at Melb.
Uni. in Decem-
ber, 1930. She
is a very fine
tennis - player
and took part in pennant matches during
her ’Varsity career.
Among the smartly-dressed girls who sold
flowers, sweets and programmes at the Pro-
scenium Club’s performance, for charity, of
Noel Coward’s “The Marquise” at the Prin-
cess Theatre on Saturday night were Romola
Smith, whose figured silk frock was topped
with a darker velvet jacket, and Thco Syme,
whose scarlet velvet robe with long sleeves
had a girdle with huge gold tassels. Henri
Penn conducted the orchestra, and Prances
Dillon, in black chiffon, warbled songs before
the curtain rose, accompanied by Iris Rot.li-
stadt. Madame Marguerite Cockerton was
the Marquise; Irene Mitchell was Adrienne,
her daughter. Edgar Veitcli had the r6le of
Le Comte Raoul and Alan Nicholson played
the care-free Esteban.
Mrs. Andrew Chirnside, junior, Elsa
Andrew that was, has joined the Firm’s
“Barretts of Wimpole-street” co. as under-
study for one of the principal characters.
She has had some stage experience with the
Grogan McMahon Players.
Adelaide’s contribution: —
The weather was perfect for the final day of the
racing at Morphettville. His Ex., with Lady Hore-
Rutliven, attended, she in a cornflower-blue cloth
ensemble trimmed with black Persian lamb. Her
hat was a blue felt. Chairman Whitmore Carr did
the honors at afternoon tea, with Mrs. S. J. Jacobs
as assisting hostess, she in a nutria fur coat and a
black marocain toilette with a black velvet hat.
Mollie Mcßride, of Glenelg, returned by the Cathay
from Ceylon, where she has been staying with friends
since February. Her engagement has just been
announced; he is Leonard Pounds, whom she met in
Colombo. Miss Mcßride was the bridesmaid of Mrs.
Kingsford Smith.
F. H. Faulding and Co. celebrated the 87th
birthday of the firm with a dance and bridge party
in the Freemasons’ Hall. Employees, numbering
several hundreds, were received by Mr. and Mrs.
Luther Seammell, the hostess a striking figure in
daffodil flowered chiffon and a coat in yellow ring
velvet trimmed with brown fox fur.
The Home School project is in need of funds, so
the committee arranged a bridge party at Prince
Alfred College. The Mawson lady and many other
enthusiastic workers are taking a keen interest in
the movement. Over 40 tables were booked. The
floral decorations were in roses and irises.
On Exhibition day at the Uni. the new Barv-
Smith library was open for the first time, and supper
was served in the refectory. On carnival night
three shows were given by the Footlights Club in
the Elder Hall, and a breach-of-promise ease was
conducted by the law students in the physics theatre.
Other shows included an original farce, “A Comedy
of -Errors,” by the pharmacy students, and “Just
Before the Battle,” by the budding medicoes.
The nurses of the Parkside Mental Hospital gave
a ball at the institution. The ballroom, designed as
a rose garden, was massed with paper blooms beauti-
fully made by the nurses. Medical-Superintendent
Downey and Matron Rice received the guests.
Galli-Curci was given a wonderful reception when
she opened her Adelaide season. Wearing white
tulle and a profusion of diamonds she looked very
smart and Parisian. Flowers were showered upon
her, and she was brought back again and again.
A twitter from Tassy:—
The charity meeting at Elwic-k fell on a heavenly
day. The Japanese Navy was strongly represented,
and the flag with the rising sun flapped over the
pavilion where the visitors were entertained.
There was fine weather for the Newnham races,
Launceston, and the crowd was large. Dressing was
wintry, but smart. In the stand were the Percy
Harrissons, the V. C. Halls, the Charlie Martins,
Mrs. Guy Meredith, the Tom Fields, Mrs. C. Lyne,
the Allan Stewarts, the Rupert Agnews, Mrs. Leeming
and daughter Nancy, Mrs. R. Green, the Fred
Lakins, Peggy Williamson, Winsome Warren, Meg
Grub, Joan and Pat Harrison and the Hugh Ritchies.
The slopes of Mount Wellington were dotted with
small blue figures from early morn till eve during
the visit of the Japanese warships. Many of the
visitors from Nippon remarked on the similarity
of the scenery to that of their own country.
Mayor and Mayoress Soundy bade the Town Hall
staff and a crowd of civic and other folk to an
at-home in the Mayor’s reception-room on the eve
of their retirement. After supper, Town Clerk
Brain handed to the host and hostess a silver rose-
bowl, the gift of the staff. Alderman AVignall is to
be the next wearer of the chain and bunny-skin.
The Old Virgilians spread themselves in their
annual hop at the Continental. Chrysanthemums and
other autumn blooms and vivid foliage made the
supper tables gay. The Continental orchestra played
attractive music.
To raise funds for the Launceston Free Kinder-
garten, Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Maekay threw two large-
rooms in their home into one, had cosy fires
burning in both fireplaces, and assembled a crowd
of guests to the B. B. Choir’s broadcasting of
“Faust.” After the opera a good supper was served.
Marjorie, only daughter of the Murray Murdochs,
Hobart, became Mrs. Fred Skinner at Chalmers
Church, looking like a lily in a sheath-tight gown of
heavy white satin. The Limerick veil had belonged
to her grandmother and saw its first wedding service
over 70 years ago. Mollie Kerr (cousin) and
Constance Skinner (’groom’s sister) ’maided in pink
georgette with large roses of a deeper shade round
the hem, and pink felt hats. Two wee maids,
Helen Thompson and Margaret Lavendar, followed,
carrying silver baskets of pink roses. The newly-
weds will settle at Huonville, all among the apples.
Perth and its parties:—
The Repertory Club staged a reception for Dame
Sybil Thorndike at the Karrakatta Club. Rabbi
Freedman introduced Dame Sybil, who chose a
suit of beige crepe, collared and cuffed, to
match her nut-brown hat. Under her wing was
blonde Phyllis Best, in a black cloth suit. Miss
Kenniwel and Mr. Drummond discoursed, with piano
and violin. Amongst the assemblage, which over-
flowed into the winter garden were the Nathan lady,
Mrs. James Brennan, Mrs. Paton and her daughter,
Mrs. Young, Mrs. Allan Bean, Betty Simpson and
Marjorie Battye.
Molly Ross, of South Perth, and Lieut. Ronald
Eustace Wade, elder son of the Rev. Eustace Wade,
of Melbourne, have announced their engagement.
Parties have been showered upon Mrs. Bob Hawson
and Mrs. Scott, known better here as Mary and
Gwen Williams. Both sisters live in Singapore,
and Mrs. Hawson has two small offspring and an
ayah in tow. Among their shipmates on the north-
ward-bound Minderoo were the Jim Withnells and
Mary Meares, on holiday bent.
There is a movement afoot to raise a bank account
for Norbert Coomber, an 18-year-old violinist oi
amazing talent. The lad has won a scholarship
which provides him with three years’ tuition at the
Royal Academy. Mrs. Joyner and Mr. Musgrove
are putting their weight into the effort.
A message flashed under the ocean for Prof, and
Mrs. Nieholls with news of the wedding of their
son, Dr. Aubrey Gordon Nieholls, to a fellow-medico,
Dr. Mabel Borden. The link was forged in Glasgow
on Anzac Day.
Tom Tracey, a Repertory actor of some distinction,
emerged from Sybil Thorndike’s Perth season with
a contract in his pocket for the co.’s Australasian
tour. Another prominent Repertory player, good-
looking Lennox Cleland, is off next week for London.
In fareweU to its two departing members the club
gave a fancy dress party mixed up with competitions
and a lot of cheery noise. Mr. Cleland’s dame’s
get-up evoked bursts of applause, as did Phil Shap-
pere’s amazing rig. Mr. Bishop was a barefooted
Arab, Vern Lyall a Scotchman, Barbara Clarke a
baby and Joan Good a. coolie.


we've beenfooled
lona enough /. . . Lets have a
long enoug,
Government that’s HONEST
99
Every day Lang remained in power
more Workers lost their jobs, more
went on the dole, while hangers on
were given Government posts at
enormous salaries. To-day New
South Wales has the highest percent-
age of unemployed in Australia. Lang
could do nothing, yet, in one week,
the Stevens Government obtained
£600,000 to provide jobs at once, and
with another £600,000 to follow.
This will make work for 30,000
men. That’s the only kind of Govern-
ment for the workers.
Honest Government is the only
Government that Pays!
SBvi
V?
m
-
v
<*»•«&*
m
* \>IPS
£ <•' .1
K
i
i-fc
$3
laa
r
r3S
IKK
*?V*tf
»7i*i
£
t
Work and Vote for a
UNITED AUSTRALIA
Authorised by H. W. Horsfield, 15 Bligh Street, Sydney.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
The other day a Melbourne auctioneer was
driving over a railway-crossing about 30
miles from the city. The gates being open, he
took it for granted that no trains were about,
but just then an engine came along, burst
through the gates, smashed the buggy, broke
A PROBLEM.
ONE MAN: “And do you always pay as
you go?”
THE OTHER MAN: “Well, when they won’t
let me go without, what’s a fellow to
do?” [“Hop.”—18/2/’93.]
up the horse, and, by amazing good, luck,
landed the auctioneer in a sitting position on
the hard road 22 yards away, hatless and
infuriated, but uninjured. When lie had
gathered himself up and shaken his fist after
the retreating engine, and blasphemed at the
guard, he walked to the adjacent station to
ask what in thunder it all meant. The result
of his inquiries was as follows. The station
was in the sole charge of a woman. It was
her business to sell tickets to intending pas-
sengers, to collect tickets from passengers
arriving, to dispatch telegrams, to receive
telegrams to work the block system, signal
advancing trains, run along the line for a
furlong or so to open the gates at the cross-
ing, scuttle back to shift the points and slam
the carriage doors and tell the driver to “go
ahead,” refix the points once more, hoist up
the signals, gallop another 200 yards along
the sleepers to open the gates again, rush
back again and fill out returns for the traffic
manager and the superintendent, tidy her-
self up before the looking-glass and then, be
blocked in the middle of changing her frock
to receive a telegram, then try to do her
hair and be interrupted by .somebody who
wanted to know when the next train started
for Nowhere, sit up late at night on aecount
of some stray freight train, and get up in
the small hours of the morning to see the
milk train or the fish train through in safety,
and several hundx-ed other things of greater
or less importance. She was a careworn-
looking woman, and when the bruised auc-
tioneer started to storm at her on account
of the mistake about the gates she gave way
to tears in the middle of her explanation,
and implored him not to report her and
deprive her of her billet. And when she
finished up by stating that the only time she
could get a bath without interruption was
between 2.30 and 3 a.m. he swallowed his
indignation and told her that the buggy and
the dead horse didn’t matter, after all. Then,
in the fulness of his heart, he got the affair
hushed up somehow or other, and the bless-
ing of the tired little woman at that lone-
some railway station rests on his head in
consequence. The incident is worth men-
tioning because he is the only Melbourne
financier who has a blessing of any kind on
his head these times. [ll/2/’93.]
The elder Dillon was playing a very un-
profitable engagement at “The Lane” [Drury-
lane, London], while Irving was on the
full tide of success at the Lyceum with
“Hamlet.” It was “treasury day,” and
several of Dillon’s pals—most of them old-
timers—surrounded him in the private bar
of the Wellington Tavern, which was next
to the Lyceum. Enter Irving—“ Glass of
sherry, please.” While drinking it he
observed- Dillon. Approaching, “Good day,
Mr. Dillon—fine weather, eh?” said he.
Dillon quietly surveyed him with a who-the-
devil-are-you ? gaze. “Perhaps you don’t
recognise me. I—er —played Horatio to your
Hamlet at the Theatre Royal, Manchester —
er—l2 years ago.” Dillon pondered with
a pompous, puzzled air for some time. At
last, seeming to recollect; “Yes! Yes ! Of
course—l remember now. Let me see—your
name’s Irving—yes, yes. Doing anything
now?” [7/2/’9l.]
A cross-examining lawyer in the Sydney
Insolvency Court was baffled by the fogginess
of a bankrupt. Lawyer: “Do you gamble?”
Insolvent, with solemn expressionlessness:
“No. I’ve never been on a racecourse since I
married.” Lawyer: “Now, sir, be very careful
in your answer. Don’t forget, sir, that you are
on your oath. Do you—er —excuse me now,
but it is my duty to ask you—is it —er —a
fact that you keep two establishments?” The
insolvent’s face underwent no change,- but
lie paused stolidy for several breaths, and
then replied with matter-of-fact gravity : “Oh
dear, no. Although m.y wife has been very-
ill and my children also wanted a change,
I haven’t been able to take them anywhere,
not even for a trip up the mountains, for
the last five years.” Here all the flash
little attorneys in court sniggered in, their
chests, and nudged each other, and winked
and raised their eyebrows amusedly, as per-
sons able to say: “Ha, ha! We all know
what it is to keep two establishments, thank
Heaven!” The cross-examiner returned to
the assault; “I am afraid that —er —possibly
you _ don’t quite understand me.” (Here
the insolvent tried painstakingly to look in-
telligent.) “What I meant was —er —do you
—er —that is to say, do you, or did you
ever, maintain, or help to maintain another
lady?” With a flash of thankful understand-
ing, the response .came briskly: “Dear me,
no. My wife and I—our female relations
are all very comfortably off.” Then the
foiled attorney sank into his chair, van-
quished and undone., [2B/10/’93.]
One incident. of Sir George Grey’s visit
to. Sydney has not yet been fully recorded.
It was the funniest thing seen in public, for
a good while and occurred at the meeting
between Sir. John. Robertson and Grey at
the historically enthusiastic reception given
to the latter by the Maorilanders in Sydney
Town Hall. Neither of the two knights
knew the identity of: the other, but old Jack’s
flowing locks and the cheers of the crowd
indicated that he was a popular old fossil
of some kind, and. when he went to sit
down next to Sir George, the latter put out
his hand as if to welcome him. But Sir
Jack hadn’t been introduced, you know, .and
being perhaps .in one of his tantrums,' quietly
turned away—didn’t like liberties. Then
people laughed, and he had 1 another look at
Grey, and they both looked at one another.
In a few moments they began to whisper,
and finally (after having sat together for
about , five minutes) they started to shake
hands vigorously—which dumb show set the
house in a roar. From that out Sir Jack
was the most hearty in his applause of his
brother veteran. In fact, so boisterous did
he become that at the-close of the proceed-
ings he started to rush everybody forward
to present them to the great pro-consul, and
amongst others took the hands of Mrs. Sey-
mour George (Sir George Grey’s niece) and
her daughter to lead them up'to, him! At
this the Maorilanders simply screamed.
[ 1 8/4/’9l'L ]
Man isn’t the only animal , that loves to
sup the barley bree. The other day a Scotch
poultry-keeper proceeded against a distil-
lery co. for turning its refuse into the “burn
which ran through his yard. Before the old
co. did this his hens and ducks were good,
useful, conscientious birds, laying their three
eggs regularly every day and five on Sab-
bath. Afterwards they all went and got
drunk in the burn all day, and wouldn’t lay
worth a cent. On Sundays the distillery
stopped working, and the hens, deprived of
their daily grog, suffered horribly in the first
stages of “recovery.” The birds would never
eat their breakfast in the morning till they
had been to the burn for a drink, and they
were always more or less under the influ-
ence of liquor. Prosecutor thought a hen
he had bought at Fort William found out
the burn first, and she led the rest astray.
He produced the Fort William hen, which
was not sober. It sat on the bottom of the
cage and put its long neck through the bars,
AN ADELAIDE INCIDENT.
EXCITED SPEAKER: “Wot I says is, why ain’t the workin’ man g-doin’ nothink Why
ain’t ’e workin’ now? Why is ’e hidle?”
One of the Audience (who has been there himself ): “P’raps it’s ’cause the foreman
ain’t lookin’.” [Phil May. 9/7/87.]
looked sideways at the ceiling, ’ crooning to
itself in what was termed a “maudlin style”
by the prosecutor. This was always noticed,
he further stated, when it was “far gone.”
At this stage the hen woke up to address
some forcible remarks to the Judge, who
ordered it to be taken away. Examination
continued: “Was this hen at the distillery
burn this morning?” “Anyone could see
that.” (Laughter.) “How are the other
hens to-day?” “Worse than this one.’
“Was this the only one you could take to
court?” “Yes.” “Why?” “The rest were
too drunk.” “So that on the whole the
Fort William hen is not the worst ?” “That
is so.” “How do you account for that?”
“She can stand it better.” Cross-examined:
“What do the hens do when they return
from the burn?” “Sleep.” “Anything else?”
“After a sleep they generally fight.” “Have
you no sober, hens at. all?” “Yes, but the
drunk ones break their eggs.” The Judge
reserved hi,s decision. [27/2/'97.]
There are the usual premonitory signs of
another silver, boom —-this time in Tasmania.
First of all, there'was the inevitable pros-
pector, who was found pounding up some
specimens, and who then went and sold the
product and got very drunk on the money,
•and woke with a dreadful head on him next
morning. Then came the rush of a lot more
prospectors, all anxious to find out where
the. specimens came from, and the usual re-
port concerning “indications’’ and the cus-
tomary rumor about the formation of a
powerful syndicate. Next, the original dis-
coverers got. gently frozen out in the usual
way, some of them trading off their interest
for an ■ old horse, and some being bounced
off, while v some were run in by the syndi-
cate for trespass, and a few more sold out
for a song after the syndicate had inebriated
them, and a benevolent speculator came
along and induced the rest for their own
good to sign a legal document about two feet
long, and threw them over the fence when
they had signed it. About this time a hook-
nosed race began to pour into Tasmania and
to, sell shares and interests to each other, and
to .swap “specimens,” and to take up leases,
anj whenever a plain, ignorant digger found
anything some financier came along and
jerked him out by Act of Parliament. Then
in a few .months more the boom will begin
in .earnest, and every bird of prey will sell
hi.s lease to a company at a high figure, and
when the company bursts he will buy it
back with his pro. note at 18 months with-
out endorsement,. and he will liquidate it,
and finance upon it, and consolidate it, and
reorganise it, and float it into 100,000 shares,
7s. 6d. paid up ; and finally the boom will
burst', and the public will find that it has
paid about £2,000,000 for an old hole in a
damp hillside, and a dead horse, and a rusted
pickaxe, and will Wonder in the same in-
variable old way how the whole affair came
about. The public always wonders a good
deal over this question, but it never seems
to make any discoveries. [24/l/’9L]
FELLOW-FEELING.
So, lie you there, you faded, tattered glove,
Cast off, that once enclosed the hand I love,
That shielded it from sun and biting wind.
Or , yielded to my hand-clasp not unkind.
How low to fall from such a height! Ah
me!
I wot you’ve fallen in good company.
For would not I have served that hand as
well
As ever you ? And yet I also fell!
And still you bear the impress, faint, but
true,
Of those small, taper fingers that I knew.
And there you lie, a relic of the past,
And keep the shape she gave you to the
last!
You were a faithful friend. In confidence
Have you conveyed full many a sweet pre-
tence,
Returned the gentle pressure which I gave,
And made me, even like yourself, a slave.
Dicl you believe her when, with dainty care,
She smoothed you out upon her hand so fair,
And vowed, by Cupid’s dart and Venus’
dove,
That thenceforth she would wear no other
glove ?
What thought you when she raised you to
lier lips
As I passed by, and kissed your glossy tips?
Confess! You dreamed of favor in her
sight?
Alas, my friend, I shared your sorry plight.
F<'r know, poor comrade in my vain regrets,
Not always faithful service love begets.
Your usefulness is past; my day is over—
She has obtained new gloves and a new
lover.
[4/12/’97.]
NIL.
WAITIN’.
The one o’clock whistle from the factory
opposite blew shrilly. Hoolan, hearing .the
welcome sound, dropped his hod of bricks on
the scaffolding, and hurried to , where the
ladder had been all the morning.
“Hi! below there, Kevin !” - ,
“Yis, what is ut?” '
“Where’s the: ladder gone to at all? It
wuz here a few minutes back.” 1
“Oh, the boss tuk it wid him down, to
Mills’s pub about half an hour ago to do
somethun to the roof. I thought he’d a-bin
back be now.”
“And how the blazes will.l get down?' I
couldn’t get down erra wan uv thim poles
if I thried.”
“Ye’ll have to jump, thin.”
“Jump is ut? My oat’, but that’s nice
now.” ,
Kevin below made no reply. ‘ He began to
put on'his coat. '
“Would ya catch me, Kevin? , Could ya
catch me?”
“Yis—aisy.”
“Git riddy thin. Are ya riddy?”
“Ay! Ay!”
“Now, luk out. Wan, two, three!”
Hoolan jumped—and fell in a huddled
heap. It was a miracle he did not kill him-
self.
“My oat’! Yur a nice cove to promise to
catch me. It’s a wonder I’m not sKtiffened
out. Why the divil didn’t ya catch me?”
“Sure I wuz waitin’,” said Kevin,
seriously.
“Waitin’,” groaned Hoolan; “what wuz ya
waitin’ for, I’d like to know?”
“I wuz waiting forr ya to bounce!”
JIMMIE PANNIKIN.
ON THE EDGE OF A PLAIN.
“I’d bin away from home for eight years,”
said Mitchell as he dropped his swag in the
ihulga shade"and sat -down. “I hadn’t writ-
ten a letter—-kept puttin’ it off, and a blun-
derin’ fool of a feller ,that got down the* day
before me told the old folks that he’d heard
I was dead.”
Here he took a pull at his water-bag.
“When I got home they was all in mourn-
in’ for me. It was night, and the girl that
HE COMET RATHER STRONG.
ENGLISH SWELL (on tour): “Haw! Give
me a glass of three-star brandy.”
COUNTRY PUBLICAN: “Drink this, old man,
and you’ll see sixty blanky stars.”
[Frank P. Mahony.— 12/11/’92.]
opened the door screamed and fainted away
like a shot.”
He lit his pipe.
“Mother was upstairs howlin’ and moanin’
in a chair, with all the girls boo-hooin’
round her for company. The old man was
sitting in the back kitchen cryin’ to him-
self.”
He put his hat down on the ground, dinted
in the crown, and poured some water into
the hollow for his cattle-pup.
“The girls eame rushin’ down. Mother
was so pumped out that she couldn’t get
up. They thought at first I was a ghost,
and then they all tried to get holt of me
at once —nearly smothered me. Look at that
purp? You want to carry a tank of water
on a dry stretch when you’ve got a purp as
drinks as much as two men.”
He poured a drop more water into the
top of his hat.
“Well, mother screamed and nearly
fainted when she saw me. Such a picnic
you never saw. They kept it up all night.
I thought the old cove was gone off his
chump. The old woman wouldn’t let go me
hand for three mortal hours. Have you got
the knife ?”
He cut up some more tobacco.
“All next day the house was full of neigh-
bors, and the first to come was an old sweet-
heart of mine; I never thought she cared for
me till then. Mother and the girls made
me swear never to go away any more; and
they kept watchin’ me, and hardly let me
go outside for fear I’d”
“Get drunk?”
“No, for fear I’d clear. At last I swore
on the Bible that I’d never leave home while
the old folks was alive, and then mother
seemed easier in her mind.”
He rolled the pup over and examined its
feet. “I expect I’ll have to carry him a bit
—his feet is very sore. Well, lie’s done
pretty well this mornin’, and, anyway, he
Avon’t drink so much when .he’s carried.”
“You broke your promise about leaving
home,” said his mate.
Mitchell stood up, stretched himself, and
looked dolefully from his heavy swag to the
wide, hot, shadeless cotton-bush plain ahead.
“Oh, yes,” lie yawned, “I stopped at home
for a week, and then they began to growl
because I-couldn’t get any work to do.”
The mate guffawed and Mitchell grinned.
They shouldered the swags, with the pup on
top of Mitchell’s, took up their billies and
water-bags, turned their unshaven faces to
the wide, hazy distance, and left the timber
behind them.
[6/5/93:]
HENRY LAWSON.
A TOAST.
Death holds a cup
That holds the doom of Fate;
Life holds a cup—
And Death comes soon or late.
Let’s drink of Life’s!
The toast? A death to Fate!
[2/1/97.]


DOPE
BY
GRANTLEY LORRENS.
Synopsis: Ernest William Johns,
ALA. Oxon., who precariously sub-
sists by freelancing, goes for “c°PV f°
Gabriel’s Heaven, a crowded dive in
Sydney. Gabriel finds him frantic
for cocaine and, though notoriously
hard, compassionately slips him some,
and Johns is soon confident and ambi-
tious to write again. But the craving
for more “snbw” is racking him when
he instinctively saves Captain Smith s
beautiful but raucous daughter, htty,
from a half-breed’s knife. Aboard the
Surf Queen, he accepts an offer of a
steady job and' a chance to regain his
health. Etty, watching him take his
first trick at the wheel, makes him
anxious for her approval. However,
the effects of his last “sniff" wearing
off, he has to let the wheel go. Ols
Jornscn, mate, knocks him out. Etty
turns on Ols, in whose slow mind
seeds of jealousy are sown.
BOOK I—THE SURF QUEEN.
Chapter V. ■
STRIKE me!” Sam Hollis spat over the
rail to emphasise the words. “Strike
me, but you’re right for onst, Skin!
Skinny Graham nodded slowly. O
course,” he agreed simply and without
assumption. “Any fool could see wots
goin’ to happen.”
“I’m not so sure about that.
“The doctor,” aloof to the lifted eyebrows
of the other two, continued to stare im-
passively across the blue reaches of the
Coral Sea. It was almost as if he had not
spoken. His eyes, behind the filmy veil oi
blue smoke, were expressionless, as befitted
the eves of an Oracle. His four voyages
in the galley of the Surf Queen gave to his
utterances an unassailable authority. He
was the only member of the crew who did
not fear the mate Jomsen—who was the
Bullroarer” in the privacy of the 1° c s le
and too, he was the only man aboard the
Surf Queen who might have laid claim to
the least intimacy with the Bullroarer.
“Ah?”
It was Sam Hollis who broke the ensu-
ing silence. It was obvious that they were
expecting some explanation The doctor
took the rather choice cigar from his mouth
and studied the evenly-burning end of it
complacently. His commissions from the
shipchandler always kept him in tobacco
throughout each voyage. Then he nodded.
“You don’t know Johnny, he conde-
scended to explain. “And you dont know
Etty what’s more to the point. louam t
ever ’come across them two reading poetry
in the saloon, have you?”
This was a revelation as astonishing as
it was obviously circumstantial.
“Poitry?”
The others stared at the doctor in
amazement.
“Yes, poetry.” .
The doctor was getting a certain amount,
of quiet satisfaction out of the reception
of his news.
“Yes, poetry,” he repeated. So it looks
as though Skinny ain’t right, after all.
Looks to me like Etty’s fallen for him.
Queer devils, women, at any time, am t
they? And if so is so—well, then, Mr. Bull-
roarer won’t get no opportunity for bump-
ing him off. And supposing he did—well,
I wouldn’t like to be in his shoes as soon
as Etty found out. No,” he added, with
unusual emphasis in his voice the Hull-
roarer may be jealous of Johnny there
ain’t no doubt about that —but he s scared
of Ettv, too.” ,
“Well of course,” said Skinny Graham
almost regretfully, “in that case I dont
suppose he’ll do anything.”
There was a contemplative silence for a
while, and the Surf Queen slid evenly on
across the blue water, calm in its protec-
tion by the Great Barrier Reef that
stretched along, in a series of atolls and
occasional palm-clad islands, parallel with
the starboard beam. The day was hot, and
conversation tended to be spasmodic, even
when the subject was interesting.
Sam Hollis tapped his pipe against the
rail. “’E must be clever, that little runt,
he suggested. “Ain’t he got some degrees,
or something?” ,
“M.A. Oxon.” The doctor supplied the
information with a nod. But his com-
panions did not seem impressed. _
“It’s a high degree,” he explained to
them. “They say a man’s got to be pretty
.clever to get any Oxford degree.”
“What? Oxford—in England, you
mean?” Sam Hollis evinced a little inter-
est. “Didn’t know you was talking about
that.” . ,
“Oxon. is the way they shorten it, the
doctor explained. “Spelt with an o,
an ‘e.’ But he didn’t pick up the snow
habit there, I reckon.” ,
“Gawd, he was bad at first, wasnt
marvelled Skinny Graham, the doctor s
references to the “snow” recalling memories
of Johns’s first few days aboard the burl
Queen. “See that barmy look e used to
get in his eyes. And did you ever hear
’im talking when ’e was wanting his snow .
Swear like Hell, he could, and yet Etty cl
just take ’im by the arm and lead him
down below. She’s fallen for him all right,
I’ll betcher. Who else ’d ha’ had him
moved out of the fo’c’s’le to the saloon.
Puzzled, he shook his head. “Women sure
is funny,” he told them. “Damn mad, 1
reckon.”
The doctor grinned down at his toes. He
had been about that day when Skinny
Graham had tried the effect of some lan-
guage on Etty. And, later, lie had ia
to sacrifice some of the steak that was
waiting to go in the stew. If you looked
closely, he suddenly realised, you could see
traces of discoloration round the others
eye.
“Yes,” the doctor agreed, “they re cer-
tainly funny. Ain’t got much time for them
myself. They haven’t any taste, that s the
trouble with ’em. Go in off the deep en
about a little runt like Johnny, and turn
down a man that’s got a bit o guts m im
just because he happens to let a word or
two slip. Augh!” He spat neatly over
the rail and tossed the stump of his cigar
in pursuit. , , .
Another silence followed. The doctors
words had set his companions thinking.
They were due to raise Townsville that
evening, and there were women there who
weren’t quite so pernicketty as the daughter
of the Surf Queen’s master.
“There’s Magnetic Island, the doctor
said a few minutes later. The other’s eyes
followed the direction of the speakers nod.
A dim shape, purpled into insignificant
individuality by distance and the heat
haze, had come gently into view, insinu-
ating itself into the present.
“That means Townsville,” he added un-
necessarily. “We’ll be there by eight.
A solitary bell rang out. The two sailors
climbed leisurely to their feet.
The doctor watched them on their way
towards the fo’c’s’le with the detached an
that comes automatically to those whose
duties are more or less a matter of per-
sonal convenience. He was the only man
on the ship who did not have to move when
the warning bell rang. He and the skippei,
of course. They were immune, beings apart.
The reflections always gave him an oddly
satisfying sense of aloofness from the trani-
mels' of shipboard routine, a superiority
that was soothing to the senses.
He lighted another cigar, and leaned back
against the rail; his eyes, as they followed
the measured pacing of the mate, were
speculative, but dreamily so. The day was
too balmy, the caress of the warm air too
sensuous, for undue mental effort.
Then, lazily, his gaze turned back towards
the distant Magnetic Island. Townsville
was a good spot; one of his favorites.
Mother Molloy kept a big ice-chest; and
up in the top room, attic really, he could
always be sure of finding a school where
they played real poker.
As the four double clangs rang out, mark-
ing the end of another watch, the doctor
stirred slightly, easing his six feet two of
boniness into a more comfortable position,
and his eyes rested incuriously on the figure
of Jornsen. It was ten to one, he knew,
that the Bullroarer, off duty, would gravi-
tate to where he sat.
But he was not looking in that direction
when, a moment or two later, the mate left
his post, as Johns came up to relieve him.
The doctor was engrossed in a study of his
toecaps, and it was, apparently, only the
other’s surly grunt of greeting that made
him look up. ,
“Shore to-night?” the doctor remarked by
way of return greeting.
The Swede nodded, but his brow was
wrinkled in a scowl.
“What’s the matter?” The doctor was
eyeing him in apparent surprise.
The other shook his head. “I bane want
no shore,” he growled. “Stay sober, God-
dam” ,
The doctor grinned. “It’s wonderful the
effect a bit of skirt can have, isn’t it?” he
remarked. “Look at little Johnny, now.
D’ y’ ever see such a change in a feller?”
He comes aboard a snivelling mess of nerves,
and inside a couple of weeks he’s got the
skipper an’ Etty eating out of his hand.
I told you about him and Etty reading
poetry together, didn’t I?”
The mate scowled
more deeply, but
made no answer.
“Yes,” the doctor
went on, more to
himself than to his
companion. “Yes, it s
a mighty wonderful
thing what a woman
can do to a man 1
reckon Etty
Johnny out of tne
gutter just m time.
He inspected the end
of the cigar he had
just lighted. Yes,
it’s a wonderful thm^,
the way Johnny’s cut out the d °Pe- Hardty
needs it at all now. Just one or two snitts
a day, instead of all the it’s
made anew man of him, w heel
done.” He nodded towards the whee .
“Look at him now. Got the sh V
alone —the Old Man trusts him, sure- I ell
you what —we’ll be having another Mist
on board soon. Mister
funny, don’t it? Can’t hardly fancy hm
with gold braid on his sleeve, thong ,
Mister Jornsen, can you/
The doctor’s voice was guileless, and n
shook his head slowly, as though marve-
ling at the visioned metamorphose Jom
sen was scowling blackly at the distant lme
of blue land. .. .
The doctor stretched his bony l‘ m ,
and yawned gapingly. “Still and all, what s
it matter? He’s only a little runt at best.
Him and his blasted poetry! Wonder »ha
’d happen to his poetry book if Etty
here to keep him off the dope? Haw!
he laughed scathingly-“she doles it out
to him like he was a kid with l° llies -
He nudged his surly, and
chuckled softly. “By cnpes, ltd be inter
esting to see what ’d happen if .he man
aged to lay in a private supply ak Towny,
wouldn’t it? But still a “ d a Vtv le£g
likelv to happen. I can’t see Etty leuing
the Old Man give him any dou ® h
ashore. If you ask me”-he nudged the
Swede again, furtively and dropped h
voice to a confidential whisper- if You ask
me, I reckon Etty’s set on Johnny. What s
the betting she don’t marry him, eh.
The Swede said nothing, but scowled
more blackly than ever.
“Funny thing, ain’t it,” the doctor pur-
sued the subject remorselessly, the way
women fall for these helpless little chaps.
They like to mother ’em, that s why. t te
laughed suddenly. “Funny thing, too, about
Towny. It’s hotter than Hell, and yet a
man can always get plenty of snow there.
Provided, of course, he knows his way
about.” He rose and stretched his un-
gainly limbs. “Maudie Brand’s the one
whataells the best. She’s got a little place
along the pier road. But a man wants t
be mighty careful there. They do say as
how some of her little ones have got the
leprosy. Well, I’ll get along-got to get
dinner ready.”
He nodded at the mate, but received no
acknowledgment. Unperturbed by the
other’s surliness, he grinned complacently,
and strolled towards the galley.
Chapter VI.
Johns stood at his window and gazed
dreamily out on the gathering mists ol
evening. He was at peace with all the
world, and, by its very hushedness the
world seemed to pause to keep his day-
dream company. The somnolent old-world
dignity that hangs over the grey stone
buildings seemed to him more digmfic
than usual. It was as though the very
stones, in their own quiet way, were wel-
coming him back with joy as intense in
its silence as had been vociferous the greet-
ings that the undergraduates had given
him earlier that day, at the termination ol
his inaugural address in the college where
once he had been a student, and to which
he had returned at last as master
He had appreciated to the full that
clamor of youthful acclamation; but this
silent hour, alone in the solitude ot his
study, was infinitely more precious to him.
Old memories came crowding back on him,
half-forgotten voices of fellow-undergrads,
seemed to echo in his mind. Well, they
couldn’t say now that he had not made a suc-
cess of things. He had kept up the promise
that his student days had shown. It was m
this very room that old “Bullswool _ had
talked to him one day—had told him of the
high ambitions that he had aroused in his
master’s mind. Even now he could remem-
ber the fear and trepidation with which
he had knocked at the door that day,
wondering what it could be that old Bulls-
wool had discovered of his occasional pecca-
dilloes. , ,
A tiny frown puckered his forehead as the
sound of knocking came to him. Surely
they could leave him alone just for a
little while.... He decided to ignore the
sound. It was probably one of his juniors
come to ask him something—if he re-
mained quiet the intruder would soon tire.
But the knocking, instead of ceasing, grew
more insistent, and another sound began to
intrude itself upon his consciousness—an
unpleasantly hoarse voice that reminded
him of something distasteful in his earlier
years Just what it was he could not re-
member- and with an impatient shrug he
turned back to the window But the voice
persisted, and its presence had broken the
spell of peace that had lam on his little
world.
And then, suddenly, as realisation came,
Ernest William Johns, M.A. Oxon., sat up,
groaned “O Christ!” as he threw one leg
over the edge of the bunk, and, a second
later, stumbled, still half asleep, to the
door.
As he opened it the bear-like figure of
the mate sidled into the cabin.
“Hey, Johnny,” he whispered, and Johns
shuddered involuntarily as the other s
breath caught his nostrils. “Hey, Johnny,
I bane get you some ‘snow’!”
The Swede sat down rather precipitately
on the edge of the bunk, his eyes, dilated
with alcohol, making his face ludicrously
like that of some nightmare owl as he
nodded foolishly.
“Snow,” he repeated, and rumbled with
suppressed mirth. “Snow for leetle Johnny,
eh?”
The contrast of the present scene with
the dream from which the lumbering Swede
had dragged him caused a flood of passion
to well up in the other’s veins. He saw, in
that moment, and in the person of Ols, the
embodiment of all that he hated, all that
he loathed. The descent from the idyll
to the present had been too abrupt. It
sapped his sense of judgment; removed all
thoughts of personal safety. With a sudden
clenching of his fists he hurled his body at
the drunken giant.
“You swine!” he screamed, his voice
cracking into a falsetto under the impetus
of his emotion. “Oh, you bastard!” The
Swede put out one hand. It was to fend
the smaller man off, and it was a gentle move-
ment, so that the muscles in the giant’s
arm scarcely transmitted the stimulus of
movement to his sodden brain. But added
to the force of Johns’s rush the fending
movement became a blow, and the Swede
stared in astonishment as the Englishman
staggered back, hands clapped to mouth,
and trellised fingers slowly disappearing
under the warm blood.
The Swede rested both hands on the
bunk, and, leaning his body slightly for-
ward on their support, blinked perplexedly
at Johns as his knees suddenly bowed out-
wards, and he crumpled to the floor.
He was not a pretty picture, the English-
man, as he lay on the threadbare linoleum
that carpeted the floor. His body was
twisted, lying on one side, with arms and
legs curiously awry, and the blood still
welled slowly from his bruised mouth. But
the spectacle, to the mind of the Swede,
was an amusing one that suddenly con-
torted his great body into a jelly of mirth,
and drew booming guffaws from his slaver-
ing mouth. .
It was Etty who terminated the out-
burst, and brought the slow-witted Swede
back to a realisation of his incautiousness.
She suddenly appeared in the doorway like
an avenging angel, eyes aflame as they
took in the details. Then, with a little
crooning sound, she was down on her knees,
wiping the blood from Johns’s unconscious
lips A moment later, as if he had been
a baby, she lifted him and carried him to
the bunk, moving the gaping Ols with one
imperious glare of blazing contempt.
Carefully she adjusted the pillows, bend-
ing over the bunk, indifferent to the cling-
ing vividness with which her single gar-
ment of sheer silk revealed the curving
lines of bust and torso. To her, at that
moment, only one person existed; that the
drunken mate was drinking m the scene
made no impression on her, because it did
not occur to her. For the time being she
was Madonna-like in the sudden flame ot
compassionate adoration that the uncon-
scious Johns had stirred in her.
Then as she straightened from her com-
pleted task and turned towards the bwede
she caught the expression in his eyes bhe
laughed sharply, bitterly. She read his
mind as she would have read a child s.
She stared at him, stared him out ol
countenance until a flush of shame showed
in his cheeks, and his burning eyes ceased
their eager gluttony. . ,
“Swine!” she said calmly, dispassionately,
forcing his reluctant eyes to meet hers.
“What were you doing in here ! bhe
spat suddenly as a wave of nausea rushed
over her. The cabin seemed redolent ot
Ols and his breath. “You stink, she added
disgustedly. “Stale whisky and cheap scent
—harlot’s scent!” She stamped her foot
in a sudden access of contempt.
“Out of here!” she commanded, and
pointed to the door.
The Swede lumbered slowly but obedi-
ently across the floor, his mouth working
in inarticulate obscenity as his bloodshot
eyes turned first to the still-unconscious
Johns, and then on Etty He paused for
a moment at the threshold, his evil, love-
bemused soul in his eyes, and then, voice-
lessly, merged into the obliterating shadows
of the alleyway. ~ .. oTi
Etty Smith laughed again, half-angnly,
half-contemptuously. The gross
adoration for her was a thing that she
neither desired nor encouraged bhe had
never, at any time, encouraged him or his
attentions, but since the coming of Johns
she had realised that constant propmq™ty
in the narrow confines of the buri queen
had been tending to lower somewhat the
barriers that her own innate, though not
always apparent, fastidiousness had natu-
rally raised. She guessed, too, that the
sudden change in her attitude since John
had been aboard had not been lost on the
mate His mind, ponderous and ungainly
as his body, required a sharp stimulus, con-
stantly repeated, to arouse it; but once
aroused it could be as implacable, through
(Continued on neat page.)


its own inertia of change, as the slowly-
moving glacier. And she guessed, too, that
his presence in the cabin that night had
been due in some way to his jealousy
against Johns.
But the realisation that the lumbering
Swede could return from his amorous mis-
adventures in the foetid pleasure-houses of
tropical Townsville to look upon her with
eyes of love revolted her. The association
sullied her.
She laughed again as she turned back to
the bunk. A soft laugh this time; a croon-
ing half-sob of some emotion that she
did not try to analyse.
For a long time she stood motionless,
staring down at the other’s pale face, dream-
ing, lost in a reverie. It was not, in fact,
until Johns had been looking at her for
almost a minute that she realised that his
eyes were open.
“Are you feeling better?” she asked with
soft anxiousness, and knelt impulsively by
the bunk. Her hair, burnished to a halo
of glory by the moonrays filtering through
the porthole, was almost touching his cheek.
He nodded slowly. “Yes,” he managed to
articulate, but indistinctly through the clog-
ging blood. “Yes, thank you. But you—
what are you doing here?”
(( “That drunken swine!” the girl explained.
“He laughed while you were unconscious;
laughed at you." Neither of them noticed
the pregnant emphasis of the pronoun.
But Captain Smith, silently looming in
the doorway, did, and his great hand car-
essed his golden beard. Yet he made no
movement, so that the other two remained
unaware of his presence.
“What was he doing in here?” Etty asked.
Johns frowned unhappily. “Ah, yes, I
remember,” he said, and his voice was life-
less. “I was dreaming—dreaming of the
old college.” He noticed that no light of
understanding came to the girl’s eyes, and
he went on hurriedly: “Dreaming, when a
knocking at the door woke me. It was
Jornsen. He wanted to give me some
more of that infernal cocaine.”
“Snow?”
“Yes. And suddenly I felt that I couldn’t
stand things any longer. I was fed up with
life, utterly fed up with the ungodly exist-
ence I’ve dragged out for the last three
years. And I saw red—and tried to hit
him.”
Etty Smith nodded comprehendingly.
Johns started imperceptibly. Was it
imagination, he wondered—some trick of
the tropic moonlight silvering her features
—or was that really the light of love that
transfigured her, and flickered from her
wide-pupilled like summer lightning?
Or was it just a caprice of his own still
half-befuddled mind that he thought he
saw her worshipping him with those eyes,
that he thought he heard the tremor of
passion in the words that she was speak-
ing?
“You poor dear!” she whispered. “Don’t
think that father and I don’t know the
hell you’re going through. But it’s worth
it, isn’t it? Or it will be soon—when you
can look that damned snow in the face,
and laugh at it!”
He passed his hand across his forehead
in a weary gesture. All very well to talk
of that time—but would it ever come? He
had been without it now for nearly twenty-
four hours—twenty-four hours of Hell!
He had fought a long battle that evening
to get off to sleep without it, and then that
damned Swede had come to torture him
with the promise of the drug. God! every
nerve in his body tingled at the thought
of it, so that he forgot the girl kneeling
by his side, forgot the adoration that was
glowing on him from her eyes, forgot every-
thing save the lure of the drug.
He rose unsteadily to a sitting posture.
“What’s the matter?”
The girl’s voice was sharp with anxiety.
She had caught the sudden glint of mad-
ness in his eyes, and did not know what
next to expect. It was she who had kept
him from the cocaine all that day; not by
force, certainly, but by persuasion, and
she suddenly felt a fear that she had
strained his will power too far—that her
encouragement and cajoleries had mis-
served their purpose and had created in
him a longing for the drug greater than
ever.
Johns started, and stared at her. Her
voice had recalled him to the present, and
had discovered in him a strength of purpose
greater than he had dared to hope for.
The madness left his mind. The aching of
his nerves for the cocaine still racked him,
but the purpose that it had engendered
ceased to be. It was annihilated.
He nodded slowly at the girl. “It is
wonderful,” he said softly. “A moment
ago I was mad with one purpose, and now
it is gone!”
He nodded again, and shook his head in
wonder.
“You are getting better!” Etty whis-
pered. “You are losing the craving!”
Johns nodded. “Thanks to you,” he whis-
pered back.
Ihe silence of the night; the soft lapping
of the waters against the Surf Queen’s side;
the moonlight flowing whitely in through
the porthole; the crisis through which he
had just passed—all these- combined to
,^ 1C hour one for hushed voices.
Thanks to you,” he whispered again, and
took her face in his hands.
Slowly, and wish a subdued fierceness
that thrilled Etty as nothing else in her
de had thrilled her, he bent and kissed
her forehead. She sighed and, for a
moment, surrendered herself to her feelings
Her arms wrapped themselves round his
neck, and she lifted her face for the kiss
that she craved. It mattered nothing to
her that his mouth was bloody, that already
a red stain on her forehead stood as tribute
to his reverence.
She may have sensed the fact that that
kiss of his had been one simply of grati-
tude and reverence for her womanhood,
but, if so, she blinded herself to the realisa-
tion. It was not reverence that she longed
for at that moment. She ached to feel his
lips crushing hers in a caress that would
sear her to the soul. She had been denied
nothing in her life, so far, that she had
ever wanted; her slightest whim had always
been more than a command to her adoring
father. And it did not occur to her that
Johns—“poor little Johnny,” as she usually
thought of him—would be the one to first
deny her anything. Raised as she had
been in primitive surroundings from her
earliest recollections, she herself was primi-
tive in her feelings. Johns had kissed her,
and the caress had stirred in her mind the
knowledge that had been lurking half-
submerged for many days'—Johnny was her
man.
There was something of the sublime sim-
plicity of the wild in her attitude of mind.
The subtler shades of feeling and emotion
were not within her ken, for she had lacked
the opportunity of learning them. Between
man and woman there could be, she had
always believed, but one, emotion, one
flood of feeling that swept over two people
as it was then sweeping over her—swept
over them and then, lifting them to its
crest, held them there for ever.
It was Captain Smith who broke the
tension. Just what motive impelled him to
make his presence known in time to save
Etty from suffering the sharpest disappoint-
ment of her life he could not himself have
said. But he had the irresistible, although
rather inchoate, conviction that this was
the psychological moment—that the happi-
ness of all three of them depended on his
intervention.
But Johns was the only one who appreci-
ated to the full the utter providentialness
of the bluff old skipper’s intrusion.
“What the devil have you been doing?”
the blond giant demanded of Johns as he
struck a match to light the hurricane-lamp.
The yellow glare, after the soft sheen of
the moonlight, dazzled them, and Johns and
Etty blinked their eyes as their outraged
retinas protested.
“Good God!” Captain Smith went on as
he caught a better view of the blood on
Johns’s face and hands. It had mostly
congealed by then, but- an ugly patch on
his pyjama coat showed where it had been
flowing but a minute before in a quick
stream. “My God, did Etty do that?”
The question, coarse as it was in its
attempted humorousness, brought a twisted
grin to the other man’s lips. That the
humor he saw in it was not the humor with
which Captain Smith had endeavored to
endow his words, was immaterial; it broke
the tension, which was the main thing, and
he saw Etty wrap her nightdress more
closely round her body, as though suddenly
aware of the inadequacy of its sheerness.
The movement caught her father’s eye also.
“You’d better get to bed,” he told her,
not unkindly. A silent onlooker at part
at least of the scene, he had sensed more
than a little of Etty’s feelings. As so often
happens when father and child are thrown
together in. one another’s company for
months on end without any other congenial,
or even possible, companionship, a strong
bond of understanding had grown up
between them, and Captain Smith, over-
bearing tyrant though he was with his
crew, had nevertheless developed an almost
feminine sense of intuition where Etty was
concerned.
And ignorant though he was of the cause
of Etty’s presence there, and whether she
had arrived before or after the Swede, he
was yet c/srtain that the whole thing had
a perfectly innocent explanation; and the
revelation that staggered him rather, as it
came to his consciousness, was that he was
as satisfied of Johnny’s innocence as he was
of his own daughter’s.
Chapter VII.
When Etty had gone—suddenly, precipi-
tately, as though all too unexpectedly
aware of the sheer nightdress and its reveal-
ing filminess—a silence fell on the cabin.
Captain Smith pulled out his pouch, and
filled his pipe with slow, deliberate fingers;
as for Johns, he was content to lie back
on his pillows, and seek respite from the
throbbing that pounded through his head.
Events had happened too suddenly for his
liking. The sudden transition from the
dream-world of Oxford to the sordid reali-
ties of his cabin on board the Surf Queen
had been too great an anti-climax to
leave anything but misery and disillusion-
ment behind. And added to that had come,
load upon load, the assault of the lumber-
ing Swede, and the subsequent awakening,
not only to the pain in his head and jaw,
but also to the knowledge that Etty Smith
had found in him the only man in the
world.
It was a knowledge that brought noth-
ing but anxiety. For Johns, in his drug-
freed normal mentality, was, as he had been
four years before—a decent-minded, studi-
ously ascetic Oxford don, and, as such,
possessed cherished ideals of some subse-
quent day, as yet a totally indefinite and
hypothetical day, when he should meet the
girl whom he had visioned in his mind as
his mate. (For the intelligentsia of the
universities, at heart, are as romantic as
the average man in the street, and cherish
the same hopeless ideals.) It was, as a
matter of fact, a problem that Johns had
discussed more than once with his own par-
ticular crony in college. The memory of
it came back to him as he lay, with half-
closed eyes, waiting for the captain to
speak.
“Snocker” Shaw had been his room-mate
in those days, and a very real bond of
friendship had sprung up between them.
Snocker had been doing Medicine, and, as
the years went on he became, with each
succeeding step, as do all medical students,
more and more of a cynic.
“Women?” he said one memorable even-
ing when they had started a discussion at
half-past seven, and forgetful of work, of
the fifty pages of textbook that lay waiting
to be read, had continued it until nearly
three in the morning. “Women? Forget
’em, my boy! What are they for but to
harass us men? You only want to come
with me down to the clinique any day you
like, and I’ll show you what women cause
in this world! Women? Faugh!”
Johns nodded soberly. “That’s one point
of view, of course,” he agreed. “But, then,
you have a mother, haven’t you?”
“We’ll leave her out of this discussion, I
think!”
Snocker’s voice had been cold and dis-
couraging, but Johns laughed aloud in his
triumph.
• 7 here you are!” He thumped the table
m delight at having “caught out” the other.
“Why should we leave your mother—or my
mother either, so far as that goes.—out of
the question?”
“One doesn’t discuss one’s own mother.”
“No!” retorted Johns. “And there you
are! There’s the whole thing in a nut-
shell! Every damn medical student’s the
same. You pose as hardened cynics, and all
the time you’ve got that damned attitude
of ‘I’m a medical student, and therefore I
am exempt, as is all my family, by the
special grace of God and the medical curri-
culum, from any personal significance in
generalisations on humanity!’ It’s a rotten
mixture of snobbishness and idealism gone
wrong, and the result is that you get the
idea that other people may be human—
unpleasantly human—but that you, and all
connected with you, are just a little more
than human, and utterly divorced from the
common clay of the hoi polloi.”
Snocker stared at the usually quiet Johns-
in amazement.
“I say, Johnny!”
“That’s it! And we’re all tarred with
the same brush to a certain extent! All we
’varsity men. Although the other courses
don’t bring it to light in quite the same
manner. But we all of u3 think that we’re
a cut above the other people, don’t we?
And why?” Johns shrugged helplessly, and
laughed shortly. “God knows why,” he
went on, “if it’s not that we’ve got swelled
head. We think, just because we use our
brains and never soil our hands—except at
games—that we must, of necessity, be a
class apart. The elect of God! Lord, but
how He must chuckle if He ever bothers
to think about it! And we’re all the same.
It’s only that you meds, when you get
brought into, I suppose, rather horrible
intimacy with the unpleasant parts of life,
adopt an unconscionably blatant cynicism.
But I wonder if you’ve ever analysed the
psychology of it?”
“Well, Herr Freud?” Cynicism and a
tolerant amusement were in Snocker’s voice.
“Don’t be a fool! Freud be damned!
It’s just because at heart you’ve got the
same ideals as we other course-men have.
But you chaps have got to put on an
extra-heavy armor to protect those ideals
against the influences your work has on
you.” Johns laid his hand on the other’s
arm, and his eyes softened. “I bet you,
Snock, that you’ve got an ideal hidden
away behind all the ramparts, the same as
all the rest of us—a wife and kids!”
The medical student had tried to brazen
it out, refusing to acknowledge, in public
at least, that such might be the case. Cyni-
cism was “the thing” for men of his year,
and he did his best to remain loyal to
his—or his course’s—tenets. But the other’s
earnestness was too much for him, and he
grinned sheepishly.
“P’raps so,” he admitted. “I notice that
all the honoraries are married, or going to
be.”
“We’re all the same,” Johns had nodded
sagely. “The only thing is that we so-
called highbrows like to disguise it a little
—perhaps because our ideals are actually a
little bit higher than other people’s.”
Ernest William Johns, M.A. Oxon., re-
called those words now, vividly, as he
lay on his bunk waiting for the father
of Etty Smith to speak; and an imp of
mischief in his mind added the rider: “And
so may sometimes crash the further!”
He had no idea of how long Captain
Smith had been standing in the doorway.
He could only hope that he had been
there long enough to realise that the situ-
ation had been forced on him. But he
wondered anxiously just how a man like
Smith, idolising his daughter as he so
obviously did, would construe that kiss
that he had given her. With the captain
there, silent and ruminative, it seemed to
his still-overtaut nerves that the stain his
lips had left on Etty’s forehead was a cross,
the stigma of a sin that only some terrible
sacrifice could wipe out.
(To he continued next weelc.)
The Horn.
Th T e ; r^° f c ?? stant tra ffic flies
wings that, round and round
Through endless effort to arise ’
In vortices are bound.
The ceaseless wheels devour the day,
The streets are hoof-forlorn •
rn, I ” e ? 10r y holds > amid the bray,
The far sound of a horn.
Mailman and horse, huntsman and hound
tlow long since ye were known?
Yet am I haunted by that sound—■
A horn in distance blown!
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.
Rain in the Bush.
The rain is in the bush, soft silver rain!
A rabbit s pelt is splashed with glistening
drops. *
The fallen gum bark lies in cylinders—
feome dark and .sodden, drowned in the cold
pools
Of shining water, strangely still and dead;
V\, hue others, soft protected by the scrub,
lae in dry curls like narrow pale-rose shells
Laght to the touch, and smelling faintlv
sweet.
The moist mouth of the rain upon the grass
Makes tender kissing sounds, and through
the leaves
Come low persistent splashings, as the wind
With playful fingers ruffles the drenched
boughs
And drums the mould with thousands of
rain-pearls.
The bracken trembles for its glowing leaves;
-then, like a flame unquenehed despite the
wet.
Forgets that half its splendid beauty lies
Mudspattered on the earth, and with a last
Brave blaze of pride hangs all its banners
out,
And sees them perish, burnished, one by one.
ihe rough scrub cattle call, and deeper
plunge
Within the thickets to more secret haunts;
And all the while the .silver mist of rain
Is loosing magic down the wide bush ways!
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.
Egypt.
Come not too soon, denying Death, for I
Would like to hear, among the Theban
hills,
The brown owl’s hoot, and see across the
sky
White moonlight beckoning where the
Pharaohs lie,
Ere Death refuses all that fancy wills,
from some half-remembered past
There come to me strange sounds, strange
perfumes blown
Through corridors of Time, gay garlands
cast
On grey forgotten streams, that are made
fast
To the frail bridge of things that I have
known;
That stretch across the dark dividing
streams
To link To-day with Yesterday for me;
t 3 right colors shimmer in a mist of dreams,
fc»low orange suns in sandstorms, or the
gleams
Of little moons pale in their mystery.
shadows on the sand I know —
lhese are things I have seen, that once
again
I would that I could find: the scent, the
glow
Of gardens where the mauve-sweet roses
grow,
The trembling flute whose ecstasy is pain.
Co ™‘ not too soon, denying Death, for I
Would like to see once more the desert
sand,
The condor like a speck upon the sky
rnt tln ? °’ er camel trains that straggle by—
.the beauty and the terror of that land!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Forest.
The forest is very silent, never a bird;
And the mountain-ash has a menace all
of its own.
Only airy ocean of leaves is stirred
1 o a somnolent monotone.
Alien and aloof, with the sunlight altering,
In rough frescoed frondage, into a strange
green shade.
And the silence almost smothers the silver
faltering
Sound of the young cascade.
You are all too small, in these vast cathedral
places,
A pygmy strayed to a giant’s citadel!
Better for you the plains and the sun-bright
spaces,
Back where your kinsfolk dwell.
Where the parrots dart and flash in the
stunted mallee,
Chatter and whistle and climb the live-
long day,
And the black ducks feed in the blue lake’s
reedy alley,
And the league-long wheatfields sway.
Where a cloud of grey galahs wheel over the
stubble,
As English starlings wheel at a flock’s
caprice.
Oh, the perfect days when a man can forget
his trouble.
Steeping his soul in peace!
i? et to a l° Wer measure?
Ihe height, the breadth of this music not
for you?
Yet the soul of the lowlands knows no sloth
or leisure,
Striving the seasons through.
Here the magnificent march of the wilder-
nesses,
PSa "" npward ’ B"“.'’
But “hSfxsr" oproM wt *“ ,a
And you are afraid—afraid.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


-
¥
: i
ra *
s§ i
3$
m
■ ;
m
■ V
I
tai—v
"lx? Ji '■%
i¥¥*!>¥s fi
.
HARDY’S
TINTARA WINES
The Champion Reserve (Gold
Label) qualities, in particular, pos-
sess that perfect balance for which
a connoisseur always seeks.
Extracted from the rich grapes grown
on the chosen vineyards of South
Australia, they are “crisp” (not-
withstanding their great age),
rich in flavor and have an
exquisite bouquet.
That Hardy’s place wines of
such high quality before the
public at such very moderate
prices sets their competitors
furiously to think.
Obtainable from all hotels and licensed
stores specialisinp in the distribution,
of the higher grades of wines.
HARJDY’S WINES OF TINTARA 1
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. NOW IN ITS 91st YEAR
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
< in
urn
v"j
1
Soon ~ the calm
of the lagoon
and the placid
stillness of sun-
enchanted South
Sea Isles.
RAROTONGA and Papeete, with their languid tropical appeal,
never fail to charm their visitors. Within easy reach of Sydney
by modern trans-Pacific liners, their fresh, unspoiled loveliness makes
them ideally suitable for those seeking to escape the crowded
thoroughfares.
HOLIDAY EXCURSIONS AT REDUCED RATES!
NO EXCHANGE.
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO,, LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 87671.
William Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: Central 8393.
UNION
LINE.
The Bandmaster’s Bride.
J.H. U. ABBOTT DRAWS ANOTHER LITTLE PICTURE OF SYDNEY’S
EARLY DAYS.
IT was a sunny and glorious blue morning
in April, 1827, when his Majesty’s 3rd
Regiment of Foot —the famous “Buffs” —
marched out of the barracks for the last
time on their way to Sydney Cove, to embark
themselves upon the two transports which
were to carry them back to England. In
the expectant crowd waiting in George-
street on the southern side of the .big gate-
way, dwarfed by a large, top-hatted police
Constable in a blue tailcoat and white
trousers, dainty Francesca Dimity, only
daughter of the truculent gaoler of the grim
establishment of high walls and bolts and
bars further down the street, strained eagerly
forward as the band crashed out into the
opening bars of “The British Grenadiers.”
A little lace handkerchief was crushed in her
gloved right hand, ready to wave to the
brave soldiers and ready also to dab those
blue eyes, even then a little a-glisten with
the anticipatory moisture she was not alone
in displaying amongst the many women and
girls who had come to whisper choking
“good-byes” as the regiment began its jour-
ney out of their lives. Good women and bad
women and indifferent women were there,
and for the most part their charming or un-
lovely countenances would lose their air of
sadness very soon when the 39th, at pre-
sent camped out on the Grose Farm by the
Parramatta-road, should come swinging
down the street from the direction of the
Brickfields to fill the big empty .barrack-
rooms the Buffs were evacuating this morn-
ing.
But that wouldn’t be the case with pretty
little Fan Dimity. There was somebody
going away this morning who was taking
her heart with him —and the tragic, the ter-
rible, the unbelievable thing was lie didn’t
know he was taking it. He hadn’t the faintest
notion there was a pretty, sweet, dainty
little fair-haired girl who would wake up
in the night and sob for him when the ships
were far away. Oh no, he’d never know;
and that was the very wretchedest thing
that any girl had ever had to endure with
a smile before. He would go away, and
With the blare of brass and crash of
drums, and amidst a chorus of strident
cheers from the crowd, the band passed
under the high, lamp-crowned arch into the
street and swung round to the right when
they reached its centre, the sun sparkling
on their instruments and sidearms and
almost making the pipe-clayed cross-belts
shine in its brilliant hard glare. And at
their head, magnificent and glorious, beating
time with his long drum-major staff, strode
the greatest and most splendid man in all
Francesca’s world—Mr. Michael Duvanny,
the bandmaster. Only a glimpse she had of
him, as the head of the column wheeled, but
she saw no more of the long scarlet proces-
sion, with its hundreds of black shakos and
gleaming bayonets twinkling, in the sun-
light, as it poured like a trickle of blood
through the sandstone gateway and along
crowded George-street towards the water-
side.
The Colonel on his black charger, pacing
majestically with reefing neck, the stately
captains at the heads of their companies,
the officious adjutant’s chestnut mare lash-
ing out at the spectators with her trim heels
when they crowded too close into the column,
the sternly-disciplined soldiers, with their
ramrod backs —she did not see. The cries
of the people, picking out individuals for
their farewells, the receding music of the
quickstep, she did not hear. She wept
silently by the rough stones of the barrack
wall, a crushed little ball of dampness
squeezed tightly in her clenched fist, until
she realised that she was alone in the street,
save for an odd shopkeeper or two who had
not followed the crowd trailing after the
soldiers to the harbor.
“Goodness,” she whispered, composing her-
self and hurrying along too whilst she
searched her reticule for a dry hanky that
wasn’t there, “I must see him again. He’ll
be going off in one of the boats if I don’t
hurry. Oh, I must see him again ! Oh dear
—oh dear —so this is being in love!”
Often and often in Hyde Park and the
Botanic Gardens, when the band of the
Buffs entertained the citizens of Sydney,
Fanny Dimity had gazed with admiration
upon the handsome, stalwart bandmaster,
Mr. Duvanny, as, with a grace and elegance
that were native to him, he conducted the
playing of the fine musicians to whose train-
ing and turn-out he devoted, it was said,
such meticulous attention. In her opinion
none of the officers of the battalion could
compare with this hero in good looks or
martial quality. She knew very well who
would save the regiment if ever it got into
a tight corner, just as she well knew how
much more important her idol was than that
showy, dandified martinet who commanded
it with such an obvious conceit of himself.
As to who was the better soldier of the
two there could be no question. Colonel
Marjoribanks might bully and bedevil his
men into the condition of routine efficiency
that had earned the Buffs the reputation
of being a smart regiment; but who inspired
their marching, quickened their weary steps
and could be relied upon to play them into
the achievement of the most glorious heights
of warlike gallantry when the time came to
do it? Why, who else but brave and hand-
some Michael Duvanny, the very Prince of
Bandmasters!
Timidly and heartbrokenly she made her
way down the winding street to the King’s
Wharf by the Commissariat Stores —the
only bit of Sydney left to-day upon which she
looked that morning—whence their boats
were ferrying the soldiers, company by com-
pany, to. the two transports lying with loos-
ened sails out in the mouth of the blue
cove opposite Fort Macquarie. Here she
arrived just after his Excellency Lieut.-
General Darling had addressed the troops
and ridden away to Government House.
They were “standing easy” along the wharf
with the people moving amongst them, whilst
out on the roadway the band rested from
its labors and jested privately concerning the
forgiveness due to it for having intimated
to Sydney, as he departed that Governor
Darling was “A Jolly Good Fellow. No
one in the colony, it was agreed, was going
to be misled by that piece of hypocrisy. In-
deed, it might have been sarcasm on the
part of Mr. Duvanny. At any rate, that
was how the rank and file regarded it.
With a thrill that was half-pain, and half-
delight, Francesca saw her hero standing
apart from the musicians, with folded arms,
somewhat gloomily contemplating the pro-
cess of embarkation. Seized of a sudden
impulse, she made up her mind to the boldest
action of her young life. She could not let
him go out of it without receiving from him
one spoken word, to treasure and preserve
through the miserable existence which was
to be her after life. At least, she would
wish the beloved soul good-bye. Only a
little courage—that was all that was neces-
sary ! With a lump in her throat she
approached the splendid figure of the chief
musician, her heart beating rapidly and her
lower lip tremulous.
“Oh, Mr, Duvanny!” she half-whispered
with a piteous and beseeching look in her
sweet little anxious face.
He turned and stared down at her, the
tall shako with its glittering embellishments
adding to the stiff perpendicularity of his
six-feet-one of imposing stature. She felt
very little and very much afraid.
“Hey?” he said, in a slightly startled
fashion. “Did you address me, Miss?”
“Oh, Mr. Duvanny,” she managed to gasp
out with difficulty, “I —I only wanted to
thank you for all the nice—the nice music
you’ve played—and—and to wish you good
luck and—and happiness—after you go
away. Oh,” she murmured confusedly, and
blushing prettily as she strove with her
embarrassment —“oh, I am so sorry you’re
going away.”
Mr. Duvanny looked startled, but pleased.
“Gor bless y’r ’eart, Miss,” he grinned,
“I ain’t a-goin’ awye—not ’alf, I ain’t. Syd-
ney’s good enough for Mick Duvanny, that
it is I’ve got me discharge, Miss, an’ I’m
out o’ th’ harmy these two days gone. On’y
put on me uniform to-day at th’ Colonel’s
request for to play th’ laads aboard. I’ve
done with ’em now. I ain’t no longer drum-
major o’ th’ Buffs, Miss —I’m just plain
Michael Duvanny, an’ landlord o’ the Blue
Cow in King-street—at y’r sarvice, Miss.
Yours for to command —an’ honored for to
be commanded.” He saluted stiffly, and
then bowed elaborately while Fan Dimity’s
little heart missed a beat or two with excite-
ment, and she became so pale that he
couldn’t help noticing it.
“Oh dear me!” was all she could say,
her left hand pressed to her fluttering bosom.
“See here, Miss,” the bandmaster sug-
gested, a little eagerly, and with some con-
cern, “you ain’t well —I can see that. Lemme
take you ’ome, Miss. Too much excitry
for you—all this ’ere. Lemme see you to
your door. Where d’ye live, Miss? —I don’t
rightly know y’r name.”
“I’m Fanny Dimity, please,” she mur-
mured faintly, “and I live beside the gaol.”
“Ho, Jack th’ gaoler’s gal, are ye? Then
come along, Miss Dimity. We needn’t wait.
I’ve done wi’ all this, an’ bidden all these
gravel-crushers good-bye. Come along then
—we’ll go ’ome.”
“Gawd!” murmured drummer Bates to
Lousy Charley, his friend the bassoon-
player, “look at Mustard Mick —look wot
’e’s got ’old of ! Strike me !”
“ ’Eaven ’elp’ ’er, that’s wot I says!”
responded his fellow-musician with bitter-
ness, scowling after the retreating bandmaster
and the dainty figure beside him as they
walked slowly up the slope that leads into
George-street. “Th’ dawg!”
* * * *
Mr. John Dimity, the gaoler, found the
Blue Cow a mightily convenient house of
call, now that he was related to its land-
lord. Nearly every evening he went there
to drink the rum of the country and pass
an hour or two in boastful discourse with
his son-in-law, whom, for his free-handed-
ness, he greatly esteemed. He was, of
course, quite willing to return such generous
hospitality—he was extremely grateful for
the fact that never was he called upon to
pay for a drink.
“Mick, me son,” he announced one even-
ing as they sat in the verandah smoking,
“should ever ye come into th’ hands o’ Gov-
ernment, an’ come to stay at my place, ye’ll
have th’ very best cell in th’ gaol—that ye
will! Ye’re a true-blue, Michael. Yus.”
Mr. Duvanny laughed the laugh of con-
scious rectitude.
“Ha ha, very good, Mr. Dimity, sir-
very good indeed! I’ll remember it. ’Tis
not everybody enjoys such an offer of the
best accommodation at your inn, and I
deeply appreciate your kindness. Ha ha —
ha ha!”
“Oh, well, ye never know. Ye never know.
Twenty year ago, Mr. John Macarthur him-
self, of Camden Park —why, they locked him
up there for a night. An’ ’tis always a
wonder to me that the bold Jack Macarthur
didn’t put Billy Bligh in Sydnev Gaol a
day or two after, when he had th’ power.
He might ha’ dqne it —easy.”
“Still, I don’t think I’ll trouble ye,
Mr. Dimity. Not yet a while, anyway.”
“Ah, I’ve heard others say that. Ye
never know—ye never can tell.”
That night week Mr. Michael Duvanny
became an inmate of Sydney Gaol, in Lower
George-street. True to his hospitable word,
Mr. John Dimity gave him the best apart-
ment at his disposal—which was the con-
demned cell.
“ ’Tis on’y for a day or two, Mick, me
boy,” he said soothingly, as he closed the
door upon his son-in-law. “On’y for a dav
or two.”
But Mr. Dimity had his doubts. He
handed his charges over to the care of the
assistant-gaoler, put on his best coat, and
hurried to the Blue Cow.
(Continued on page %2 .)


Seven Years’ Rlieumatis
Ended
A Gold Miner’s Striking Testimony
Here is just one of a number of splendid
letters that afford “proof positive” that
rheumatism in its most chronic stages can
be banished easily and inexpensively.
Mr. W. Healey, Willoughby, N.S.W., writing in
May, 1918, says " 1 have been a miner; my photo
is on the back of every one pound note. I am
represented there driving a drill. That photo-
graph was taken 4,156 ft. underground, at the
Victoria Quartz, Bendigo, which was at the
time, about eleven years ago, the deepest gold
mine in the world. I have been an invalid for
seven years with miner’s complaint and rheu-
matism. About four months ago I had a severe
attack of rheumatism and sciatica. Nobody
knows the agonising, sleepless days and nights
that I went through. A t times I could not lift
my right foot off the floor to get from one room
to another. I had to lean on a stick, walk
backwards and drag my foot after me. After
trying several liniments and not getting any
relief I got a bottle of De Witt’s Pills and gained
relief. That was three months ago, and every
night since then I have had eight and nine hours’
Peaceful and refreshing sleep."
Later Mr. W. Healey writes “ I have not had
any symptoms since I first took your Pills. My
appetite is better and I continue to sleep well."
(Mr. Healey in this illustration is marked with a cross).
\
r
£
*
.
m
S'
■■m*
m
me.
k
0
m
<s2r
■
m
k
X
m
«T«w»
h
7. *.
¥: !
4,156 feet below surface,
Victoria Quartz Mine,
Bendigo.
FROM FLASHLIGHT PHOTOGRAPH By VINCENT KELLY, BENDIGO
Mr. Healey’s experience proves that the health-restoring
value of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills is permanent. Pain
banished by De Witt’s Pills is banished for good. Mr. Healey’s
testimony is one of thousands telling of chronic rheumatism,
dreadful backache, serious kidney trouble ended—thanks to
this 40-year-old remedy.
In 24 hours from the first dose you will see and know this
remedy is doing you good. De Witt’s Pills are no ordinary
pills, but are specially prepared for the relief of pain and
weakness caused by kidney disorder.
Because they are so good, so popular, De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills have been imitated. Beware of cheaper,
so-called “kidney pills.” If you want to end your pain and
suffering, see you get the genuine De Witt’s Pills, sold by
chemists everywhere, in the white, blue and gold box, price 3/6,
or the larger, more economical size, 6/6. De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills are never sold loose.
Why delay this matter ? Why continue suffering when
Mr. Healey’s experience can be your own? Make up your
mind now. Say:—“l will give De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills a fair trial.” If you will only persevere we are confident
that this famous remedy will not only banish your pain and
suffering, but will give you a store of health, strength and vitality
that will mean a new lease of life and happiness.
»e WITT’S
Kidney
and
Bladder
PILLS
“In th’ name o’ Gawd, Fanny,” he cried
out to his daughter, when he found her weep-
ing in. her bedroom upstairs, “what th’
devil’s all this? Has he done it —or ain’t
’e? What d’ye know about it?”
“Oh, my poor Michael, my darling boy!
He’s done nothing—nothing at all. ’Tis all
my fault. Oh, I’m a wicked woman—a
wicked, wicked woman!”
It was some considerable time before Mr.
Dimity could obtain from his daughter any-
thing like a coherent account of the singular
and startling event that had taken place
in the early evening at the Blue Cow. Even
then he remained a little befogged and be-
wildered as to who might be held responsible
for his son-in-law’s being an inmate of the
establishment he controlled at the other end
of the town, instead of continuing in un-
trammelled enjoyment of his rights and privi-
leges as landlord of the Blue Cow and a
free and independent burgess of the metro-
polis of New South Wales.
So far as he could make out this was what
had happened.
. Maggotty Dan, a besotted and unclean indi-
vidual, notorious and odoriferous in Sydney,
who had once been a bandsman in the Buffs
—he played the cymbals—and had suffered
ignommous discharge from the army at the
instance of Drum-Major Duvanny, had paid
one of his pestilential calls at the Blue Cow.
At first affectionate, flattering and fulsome,
the studied coldness of the landlord had
induced in him that resentment which, more
and more, as his degradation progressed, Mr.
Daniel Duggan was beginning to manifest
towards the despicable behavior on the part
of Sydney’s citizenry to a man and a brother
who had fallen upon evil days. “Maggotty
Dan,” they called him —him who had enter-
tained and inspired them, not so long ago,
with the clashing noises that give character
to a military band and had especially dis-
tinguished that of the Buffs when he was
responsible for them. “Flyblown,” they said
he was. To his wheedling demand, as an
old comrade and a fellow-artist, for a free
libation of Bengal rum, Mr. Duvanny had
hinted in the rudest fashion that he should
remove liis objectionable person out of the
taproom—had called him an eyesore, a bit
of dirt and a disgrace. Wherefore he had
been inspired to a very natural retaliation
by the entrance of Mrs. Duvanny carrying
a cup of tea to her husband.
“Yah,” he gurgled, “ye think y’self a fine
lady, don’t ye, now! Ye pore liddle trollop,
ye’re on’y one more o’ Mustard Mick’s mis-
fortins. ’E’ll leave ye w’en y’r time comes—
like ’e lef’ Polly Sanders at Chatham, an’
Meg Martin at Portsmouth. Y’ll be ’is
leavin’s, ye pore deluded liddle insec’, ye!
’Tis a month I give ye; then ye’ll be glad
to come an’ live wi’ me, in a ’ole in th’
rocks, roun’ be Garden Island —so ye will!"
The utter horribleness of this suggestion
had been too much for Mr. Duvanny. With
a wrathful curse he had taken the loath-
some creature by the collar, kicked him
severely behind, and had heaved him down
the front steps of the Blue Cow on to the
stone-flagged pathway leading through the
front garden of the inn into King-street,
The crash of Dan’s skull as it smashed on
the sandstone had sounded like the bashing
of a pumpkin. Blood flowed from his bulbous
nose, and oozed out of his dirty ears, and
when Mr. Duvanny went to haul him away
from the entrance to his licensed premises,
he found that Maggotty Dan had suddenly
ceased to exist. This was what, with much
difficulty, Mr. Dimity was able to gather
his distressed daughter,
<^ nd then what happened, he asked,
, constable came, and put him in a
Harrow, and wheeled him round to the
, k irmary in Macquarie-street. Oh God,
me ; Bada, I m a kad woman •
wnat next t ...
, T ke , constable came hack and took
away to the watch-house,
_ Dh yas > sighed her father, an’ then
I was called on for to find him a bed. But,
cheer . U P> “ e S irl > he’ll be all right in th’
~ f n P°hce
magistrate. iwas but a mischance—and,
anyway, Dan Duggan’s a d—d good rid-
dance. Las’ time I had him he nigh poisoned
th > gaol . The on - y way to clea £ him up > s
to cover ’im wi’ six foot o’ soil. Go ye to
bed, now, Fan, me dear. I’ll look arter
Mick Duvanny. I’ll drink to’s ’ealth as I
g 0 ou t me <nrl.”
But it was not all right in the morning,
or> indeed, for twelve months afterwards,
w jth the landlord of the Blue Cow. He
was committed for trial in the morning on
a charge of manslaughter, and, . although
they gave him bail for the month that was
t Q run before he should face Judge and
jury, the latter held that even so foul a
creature as the late Mr. Duggan was not
entitled to a fractured skull and a nameless
g ra ve in “the Sandhills” for being merely
beastly, and Mr. Justice Forbes said that
twelve months in Parramatta Gaol would
teach Mr. Duvanny that gentleness was a
virtue in a licensed victualler,
it was a subdued and chastened penitent
who emerged on to the north bank of the
Parramatta River on a spring morning in
the following year. He was welcomed at the
g a t e 0 f the prison by his father-in-law. In
those days the penal establishment at Parra-
matta stood in the little park where the
war memorial has been erected in recent
yea rs.
“How’s Fanny?” he inquired of Mr.
Dimity, as they walked across Lennox
Bridge to the White Hart, where the gaoler
had his horse and trap,
“Well, then, Mick, me boy, I hardly know
what to say to ye, and that’s the truth,”
said Mr. Dimity with some embarrassment,
“She’s a changed woman.”
Mr. Duvanny stopped in the middle of the
bridge, and took his father-in-law by the
lapel of his coat. His face had gone a little
paler than the year of confinement had left
it naturally.
“Why what’s the matter?” he asked
anxiously.
“She’s got religion.”
“Well, she always was a bit that way.
She was always a-wanting me to go to St.
James’s Church o’ Sunday mornings. How’s
she got it worser’n that? How’s it took
her beyond ehurch-goin’?”
“Aw, wait till ye see her y’self, Mick. It’s
done her no harm, to be sure; but ye’ll find
a change in her. I was on’y a-warnin’ ye, me
boy, so’s ye’d not find her anyways strange.
Ye’ll find out for y’self soon enough, that
ye will.”
As they drove back to Sydney, nothing
would induce Mr. Dimity to any more ex-
plicit explanation of his daughter’s state
of mind, and, although he was free
enough in his information regarding most
of the matters his son-in-law was interested
in, he became almost dumb when any refer-
ence was made to Francesca’s altered being.
“See for y’self!” was all that Mr. Duvanny
was able to extract from him, so at last he
gave it up. They dined at the Half-way
House at Homebush, and drove into Sydney
early in the afternoon, Mr. Duvanny
anxious and miserable, with some vague
dread of trouble to come; but his father-in-
law philosophically informative about recent
happenings in the town. As they turned
out of George-street and up the slope of
King-street, he remarked enigmatically to his
somewhat dejected companion:
“Never say die, Mick—never say die!”
The Blue Cow, to its landlord’s notion
looked just as trim and neat and as pleasantly
inviting to thirsty souls as it had a year
ago. He could see nothing in the outer
aspect of the inn, at any rate, to indicate
any change of habit in his wife. It was
the same well-kept establishment it had
been when he went to gaol, with the aspect
of careful housekeeping that had always dis-
tinguished it since Francesca had come to
look after it. A few idlers on the verandah
raised a welcoming cheer as he came up the
steps. But he hardly noticed them, for, sil-
houetted against the sunlit garden beyond
the door at the end of the passage, was the
trim and lovely figure of his little wife. In
half a dozen strides 1 he was in her arms.
She had wept a little on his shoulder as
he smoothed her fair hair and kissed her
again and again, and presently they went
into their living-room at the back of the
house. And then he asked for an explanation
of the changed attitude towards life Mr.
Dimity had hinted was hers. He told her
of the gaoler’s mysterious hints. How had
she “got religion.”
“Fan, my dear,” he said, “whatever it is,
I’m with ye. I’ll go to church every day, if
you says the word. I never knew, till I
was in th’ clink, how much ye was to me.
How’ve ye got religion?”
She laughed merrily, as she stroked his
face with a soft little hand. “Oh, Michael,”
she said, “I was proper miserable over the
whole business, for I thought ’twas my fault
you’d been so hard with poor Dan. So I
made up my mind there’d have to be a
change for the better in this house. I was
doing you wrong—l should have done it
long before. So I did it.”
“Lord! You did what?” he asked.
“I stopped father's grog!"
Distant Fields.
Those distant fields they are so green!
Alas! Alas!
So oft I’ve seen
The sheen
Of golden fruit from pest immune,
Of fadeless flowers,
Nor ever heard
One bird
Sing out of tune.
Those distant fields how green they are!
Maybe one day
On some far
Star
I’ll prove the vision true;
An ideal You
Will tell
The tale and tell it well
Mid shining rows
Of asphodel.
But doubtless that Elysian field,
Alas! Alas!
Too soon will yield
An asphodel more fair,
More rare,
In places far beyond the spot
Where we have got
Our plot.
N.S.W.
LAUREL GADEN MILLS.
Good Fellows!
Since Fortune’s bones are out of joint
And in their sockets creaking,
What say you if we cast off care,
Good fellows all, and forward fare
Peace seeking and joy seeking?
Haunts left beliind where worries lurk
And hopes grow wan and wither,
Brave, hrave of heart and wise of mind,
Where hither-thither blows the wind,
Let us fare hither-thither!
A-nigh us through the glowing hours
Birds singing and flowers blowing;
In spite of what the world may say
We shall not ask the time o’ day,
Nor heed where we are going.
As over shining paths we wend
Or paths of sun-flecked shadows,
We’ll find, our hearts and minds to ease,
That grief dwells not in leafy trees
Nor pain in breezy meadows.
Forsaking crowded haunts for scenes
In which bright birds are dwellers,
Where hills uprise and hollows sink,
Air, sweet as wine, our lungs shall drink,
The wine of forest cellars.
Then until Fortune, grim of mood
And sour of visage, mellows,
What say you if we turn our backs
On her and wander carefree tracks,
Tracks green and gay, Good Fellows?
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Ask for
Sv‘ :
ftvA
;•
:'vv
• ■ .Xy
•:£Sfcv C i
> .*
[tV.
S cots«/H
TO
ESTABLISHED 180 7 r
this fine old Scots Whisky
has 120 years' reputation for
outstanding quality. It is skil-
fully blended for mellowness
and flavour and no better
whisky can be produced.
PERFECTION
SCOTS WHISKY
D. tJM°CALLUM ILS EDINBUR GH.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE
HOUSE OF IVIc CALLUM :
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO„ LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
BARTLAMS, LTD., Townsville.
NORTHERN AUSTRALIAN BREWERIES,
LTD., Cairns.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD..
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS ;
RATES; Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, //*
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months. 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
b
cv.
o
i>v
o
e
%
1
s 6
s®
>3*
w e
.
&
\\i°
>V' 4
v°.,\S'^
\v »?> <&
#•’


<, \v m
v. i'll
mi
siSjsvs
#
Site
m
m
m
>Xr ‘ <> *<
>
> V,>v4 v ";^
tMKWttK:
m
? - -
■ss
IP llllit
&•*£
ssss?
fmmmw
MIT.'
WHEN you order Old Court Whisky
you order a spirit of mellow maturity.
Every drop of Old Court Whisky sold
to-day has been maturing in the wood
for over five years.
No other Australian Whisky now sold
can make this claim—no other can give
you the pleasure, the value, the certainty
of excellence that this, the World’s purest
and the Nation’s Favourite, provides.
and'>
Old Court Whisky is the
only Australian Whisky
sold to-day that can make
this claim —Over five years
old before it’s sold.
Wi
It?):
♦
'W
THE
WORLD'S
PUREST
THE
NATIONS
FAVORITE
