

ii
1
•NX
m
m
M*
m
m
vi-.
i
-...'v
m
XX cv
X
m
*
m
X
UJ
x
1
u
Or
Or
iu
Z.
m
x
UJ
<
bjUpX
Cfc
sx»s
m
f-
:t
u
Ad
x:
frVv^
&
&
X
&■
1
ofi
zs
X
?N
X
ffll
*»
$$P
rf\
**
ii;/'
(/)
71
iS
•^L-XjCrT
V*
:^r
ss^s
v-
rC
C/V'
x
a
<i>
i
PX>
■
si
U
N
I
X,
x.
A
\
%A
m
UJ
X
m
Ul
Ct
4
K H
o
o
*
o
xx
6b
%
>*
ii
«
p
r
"Sg
ai
%
f:
VfA
>ssri
ii
CX
l£x*A
vVhen you’re feeling gay,
smoke gaily. Consult your
pocket, certainly, but consult
your palate first. Your palate
will not hesitate —it will want.
State Express. And your
pocket will agree, for, de-
spite the famous Ardath
blend, despite the special
treble wrapping, despite the
choice of Plain or Cork tips,
Three-Threes are only six-
pence for NINE.
CORK TIPPED
OR PLAIN
9<- &
184,1'-
274, Ife
Also in Flat 50s,
Flat 100 s, and Round
Airtight 50s.
The Bulletin
f\ju*r JiijLSfcafljieM Co.' — f! 8
Vol. 53.—No* 2751.
Wednesday, November 2, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


r J"'HE 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, yTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney,
initial
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence Collene ****
100 hussell Street , Melbourne ° "
Please send, without obliqation, your New P*..
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explains
your Muscular Movement System, of Writinn Z.
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ***
My Name
My Address
S.B. 332
J_'VS^VGHT7
o
B
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
AH users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
cvomest a-ie
a/
(uticura
C "fonp
ISOIP
For the Daily Toilet
Used regularly, this pure,
fragrant, delicately medi-
cated soap keeps the skin
fresh, clear and glowing
with health.
Price Is.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established, 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
The service “The Age” renders is
essentially practical.
Being a publication of the highest
prestige, it enjoys close and continu-
ous contact with adult minds through-
out Victoria, thus assisting t'he
conduct of business by linking up
with the everyday domestic needs of
its readers.
“THE AGE”
circulates in over 115,000 homes
daily, and publishes 1,000,000 adver-
tisements annually.
KEEP THIS IN MIND
when planning future allocations.
Kates on application to the leading service
agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europ-
and at home. Australians’ are. cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
•New Zealander' Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
\\ .C. 2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
*d the paper ana general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney or
493-95. Collins Street, Melbourne.
5A
[DIRECT MEDIUM TP WOMFM
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C, IHNCHCLIFFE
2 HUNTER STREET.
/member's.
4mJ!D!|H |
JlB'inijiEA't. ®ir
'GiIRC'WIApiDS*
Has a Greater
Circulation and a
Greater Number of
Ho m e Deliveries
Than Any Queensland Daily
Newspaper.
The
Sunday Mail
Brisbane
This great newspaper goes into the homes of
the people of Brisbane when they have leisure
to read. It is a journal of character and
distinction and presents features that appeal
to everj- member of every household. If vou
want to fully cover the Brisbane market at
small cost, this is, your paper.
Rates -and other particulars from
RQBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
r*.y
*5
Ml
‘‘Lost that morning" headache
Now I stick to Dickens”
lhe genuine Old Scotch.
Bottled in Bond.
Oickens
Scotch illl) jsitu
<* clfetoW, <4g^
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Middle-class Ireland
Ever since the Restraints, which did so
much to transfer prosperity from Dublin
to London, it has been the fashion to
accuse Ireland of having no middle-class
comparable to “England’s backbone.” Like
the equally popular generalisation about
Australia being all middle-class, it is a
half-truth. Australia has no aristocracy or
peasantry as Europe understands the terms,
but it has proletarian classes which are
growing with the growth of industrialism;
and similarly Ireland, while it has lost many
of its bearers of historic names—some by
'emigration to England and elsewhere, somfc
by inability to stand up to modern condi-
tions—has acquired, and is still acquiring,
families of a type it hardly dreamt of in
the eighteenth century. Wars have been
largely responsible (every war outside Ire-
land, from the American Civil War to the
World War, has helped to found Irish
middle-class families); British paternal
legislation of the late ’eighties and onwards
and the wealth-bringing Cosgrave regime,
following on the checks imposed by “the
coldness,” have furthered the movement.
According to a cable of a few days ago,
“the Free State has imposed new tariffs
on yarns, jewellery and metalware”—a sign
of the times. Whatever the party changes
may be, there are not likely to be great
changes in tariff policies. Thus the country
is being revolutionised socially as well as
economically. Here are two delightful
novels which reflect the phenomenon.
Irish Forsytes
The founder of the Considine family
whose history is related by Kate O’Brien in
Without My Cloak (Heinemann: The Roy-
croft, Sydney, 11s. 6d.) was a horse thief.
He came to Mellick in 1789 and put the
come-hether on the widow Doonoy, tvho sold
potatoes and pig’s-feet in Lady’s-lane. He
died in a. brawl. His only son John, who
had always been interested in horses, bega
by making a small deal in hay. Presently
he opened a forage store. His trade ex-
panded. The Potato Blight set him back
the Crimean War phf him on -his feet agaii
At 70 he was one of the wealthiest men i
the south. His eldest son became a doctoi
his second a priest; two" daughters marriee
well and one became a nun. “He hac
25 grandchildren and possessed the mean
to provide for all of them.” The stor;
chiefly concerns John’s youngest son
Anthony and Anthony’s son Denis. Ye'
Anthony and Denis are inejgtricably bounc
up with their family. They are variant
on the duty-loving and somewhat unimagi
native Considine type—dreamers who ar
always liable to yield to passionate impulse
—and they strain at the leash, but th
Considines get them in' the end. So in th
sum the novel is j ust another picture of
successful commercial house in the making
It differs from all the others in being an
authentic Irish picture. Old John lives nea.
the business, dines at half-past two, am
enjoys his tea; Anthony has a big place
some miles from the town, dines late anc
is a .judge of port. Here is Anthony’s
brother, who is also a judge of port a.n<.
other good things:—
This admirable handsome priest had
knack of boring his brother. Father Tom
was hard-working, virtuous, courtly, zealous
and intelligent—a credit 'to his cloth and to
Maynootli. He was also pompous and a
bit touchy, liking to lay down the law am
strike attitudes.,.. On the subject of
morality, which lie .scanned to take to mean
exclusively man's conduct of his sexual lit'*;,
Father Tom was fanatical. He could be
hair-raising about the night life of cities
he had never seen, and his hints as to the
prevalence in Ireland of what he called “the
social evil” were nightmarish.
Outwardly they are a worldly, pleasure-
loving lot; inwardly they are as puritanical
as Father Tom. They are shaken to their
foundations when Caroline leaves her hus-
band. She doesn’t leave him far another
man, but in London for. the first time in
her life she happens to fall in love. Richard
Frond is trying to persuade her.
He gathered her to his breast. His em-
brace was fierce now, his mouth imperious,
but there was no answering urgency in herl
The ghosts had chained her back in her own
place where wives are faithful.
“You see it was a dream we bad,” she
said, “a kind of madness, Richard.’ Let
me go.”
“Go where?”
“Anywhere. Away from you. I’m going
home to-morrow.”
Poor Christina, the peasant whom Denis
falls in love with, is less resolute. A word
would have saved her.
Strangely, she
did not say that
word.... Wiser
and more fatalistic
than he, n o
dreamer or lover of
the world as, he so
often was, no
heedless girl in the sense in which he
was a heedless boy, but conscious, as a
well-trained Catholic, that she was gambling
an eternal heaven for a fleeting one. and
newly aware with a shock that made her
smile that it was possible to commit what
priests call mortal sin without the faintest
sense of guilt, she gave herself up, with the
catechisms “perfect knowledge and full con-
sent,” to her desire for Denis. '
The reactions to the affair of all concerned
are characteristic. Father Tom has packed
Christina off to New York at his own
expense before learning of her sin. When
he does learn he puts duty before pride,
like the other members of the family, a.nd
agrees that Denis must many her. Denis
follows her, but she won’t marry him. In
the end he makes a suitable match else-
where, and the family carries on.
On the Down Grade
The Pallisers, whom Martin Hare ;
describes in Butler’s Gift (Hememann: The
Roy croft, Sydney, Bs. 6d.), are members
oi a failing family. The Rev. Ralph
i alliser, a younger son of an impoverished
squire, lives at Kilmartin Rectorv with his
fatuous wife, idle son and three daughters.
iJee, the son, has' £7O a year, a legacy from
his godmother.
M?. Church-af-Ireland, diehard-Fnioaist.
son-of-landlord, rector-of-parish father could
possibly have been proud of Dee as he
lounged over the breakfast-table, teacup in
one hand and paper-backed volume in the
other. Air. Palliser could have told without
looking that the volume was the work of an
Irish poet, probably extremely minor and
almost certainly killed in Dublin in Faster
i' -i Dee was hit idealist. In Ire-
land, if you are an idealist, your natural
means of self-expression is Nationalism so
lfee was an ardent Nationalist, to begin
with and passed on logically to being an
apostle of Sinn Fein.
Charm is as hard to isolate and define and
as easily recognised in literature as it is in
human beings. A disproportionate number
ol Irish writers have it—-wits like G B
Bmmmgham, and those creators of an Irish
R.M. .who keep their readers in a continual
simmer of amusement, varied by occasional
surprised guffaws. Martin Hare—a woman
probably—is another of them. Her plot is
slight, and the humor never flags. Yet it
is tiagedy after the Aeschylean formula
from the moment Philip Silver, the English
bank clerk who is distantly related to" the
Pallisers, comes to live with them it is
clear that they are doomed—doomed as
much by their lax overbred natures as by
their miserable environment—and that his
only hope of happiness is to leave them.
• u < T, ; ; nictf 'rs are drawn with piercing in-
sight Ihe Rector—upright, learned, simple-
minded and kindly—lives uncomplainingly
m sordid discomfort with no companionship
but that of his idiotic wife, irresponsible
offspring and illiterate parishioners.
For thirty years or s 0 ho had dis-
pensed medicines, stitched and bandaged in-
juries. written, wills; and, more difficult,
administered them later, advised, comforted
scolded, and, if driven to it, prayed with a
parish ot thirty square miles. Both Pro-
testant and Catholic came to him in diffi-
eulry a s a matter of course, and nobody was
ever refused his aid. There were not a
tew who, -like Stephen Jagoe, believed tha*
they owed to lam the best of what they had
in the world.
His eldest daughter falls in love with Jagoe,
vr dOC /°j’ 10 son a Peasant.
Wounded to lus patrician depths, the Rector
reius.es lus consent, and Jagoe knuckles
under; but the daughter doesn’t. She talk-*
her father round—and then tells Jagoe she
won’t have him. / ,
"You knew you were in the right; but
you tell you were in the wrong because
father .said so and father’s father'was your
giandfather s landlord, and your people have
been paying rent and tithes and lip service
to my people* for generations, hatting them
hearS’’ r ° ads and hating thoni >" yonr
She has seen the light and will die lonely
ike her clever, friendly sisters and brother,
oi this is rural Ireland, compartmented,
rancorous, chaste, secretive, mediaeval and’
to the conventional visitor from Liverpool’
as strange as a ward in a lunatic asylum. ’
RED PAGE.
The Digger as He Was
L e °n ard Mann’s Flesh ' In Armor
(Phaedrus, Melbourne) is the best war-
novel by a soldier of any nationality that
Inis critic has read. To the average En<dish-
man of the war years the Diggers "were
uke the cheery buccaneers of the book by
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—The Foundation of Confidence
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Anthony Horderns'
TURKISH
TOWELS
SUPREME VALUES for SUMMER SURFERS
m
f
, A
xy
0 cS.
w
1- -
I
inlltlvjl
m
milll
as illustrated
60,000 Colored Turkish Towels
EIGHT
DESIGNS
/
6 for 14/3
SIZE
24 x 48 inches
• •
SYDNEY S SUPREMETOWEL VALUE
Representing the entire output
of a Sydney Towel Mill for 3 Months
A huge purchase of Australian-made towels, bought from one of the leading Mills.
Positively Sydney’s supreme Towel value! And there are eight attractive designs
for selection. Suitable for both-beach and bathroom use. Large size, 24 x4B in.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each, 2/6; 6 for 14/3.
(Towels—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Freight -paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and
railway stations in N.S.W.)
Buy a
12ft. x 12ft.
“MARQUEE”
AUTO
TENT
for a Perfect Holiday.
Every Motorist who takes
care of his car and who
wants the full pleasure of
a tour should take this
tent. It is a thoroughly dependable shelter,
easily erected, compactly folded, and
quickly repays its cost.
( Manchester—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free
Delivery to the City and Suburbs .)
I
I
I
mm
£
m
asp
PHI
M
O l *6j
■■■■■
£7196
Complete
12ft. x 12ft.
“MARQUEE”
AUTO
TENT
Specifications:
Khaki Birkmyre Proofed
roof, with White Duck
walls. This tent, as illus-
trated, is the most popular
one for the week-ender
or the constant tourist.
Workmanship and finish unsurpassed. Com-
plete with ropes, Bft. centre pole, 8 side
poles, 6ft. (telescopic), 16 small and 12
large galvanised tent pegs; also tent and
pole bags. Size, 12 x 12. Price, £7/19/6
ANTHONY HORDERN AND
’Phone: M 2401.
SONS LIMITED, SYDNEY
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


“—instilled
new life
Into me”
“ Three months ago I started
taking Sanatogen on the advice of
my doctor. My system had been
undermined by years of neurotic
strain and mental debility and I
could not expect miracles to happen.
But a miracle did happen, and
in a few short weeks I found
myself acquiring a new sense of
well-being. Depression disappear-
ed. All neurotic tendencies have
gone. Now after three months of
regular treatment of Sanatogen, I
am reborn. Sanatogen has instilled
new life into me. It is amazing.”
J.M.
m tzm
,
m
V.
&
\\
r- ■■r^y
if
h : -
.-’f-
-
M#®*. •'
(3;
s •?
A miracle? No ! Simply the logical effect of a
true scientific nerve-food on weakened nerves.
Sanatogen contains the two vital elements
phosphorus and pure milk albumin —your nerve
cells need. It must strengthen and revitalize
your body and nerves.
Why not try it for yourself and feel the wonder-
ful influence of Sanatogen on your whole
health and happiness.
sanatogen
Sanatogen is obtainable at all Chemists.
Made by Genatosan Ltd., Loughborough, England.
a®;
m
i
m
i
m
Diagram of nerves in the body ,
Weakening of the nerves may result in
irregular functioning of almost every organ
of the body. ‘Nerves’, digestive troubles,
stomach pains, sleeplessness all these
different complaints are usually due to one
and the same cause: Weak Nerves. But by
taking Sanatogen you can feed and strength-
en the weakened nerves and so regain new
health.


Mil
yPW \' f p s S s. V
“PLAY SAFE!”
• • •
u
I
ds
when buying RADIO
Unfortunately, many people do not get the
opportunity to actually see the games, hut they
do the next best thing, and that is to listen, to
them —faithfully reproduced on their Healing
Golden-Voiced Kadio.
If you are unable to see a Test Match, you
will not want to miss any of the thrills, so
why not take a grandstand seat de luxe—in
your own armchair and enjoy every moment
of the game.
If your present equipment is inadequate to
flawlessly reproduce every magic moment of
the game—if you want perfect reception which
ordinary sets may not give you, get in touch
with your nearest dealer, who will show you
why Healing Golden-Voiced Radio alone can
give you the best in home entertainment.
A. G. HEALING, LTD.
SYDNEY:
164-170 Goulburn ■ Street.
MELBOURNE:
167-173 Franklin Street, G.l.
ADELAIDE:
Corner Pirie and Pulteney Streets.
Lieut. MaxAvell, V.C., Avhich Avas reviewed
in last Aveek’s Bulletin. Their battle
discipline Avas admittedly splendid, but
their discipline out of the line Avas supposed
to be bad, and so Were their manners.
Actually, most of them were quiet, rather
shy idealists, the products of conventional
and often religious homes, who had all sorts
of early-Victorian notions about Avoman-
hood, friendship and duty in general. Mr.
Mann’s book concerns such men.
Hig hero, Frank Jeffreys, was a State
school-teacher of 28 Avhen the Avar began:—
He had waited for more than a year before he
had enlisted, weighing during that time in a torment
of conscience the right and wrong of the issue, and
whether war was itself an answer to Avrong.
On short leave in London he meets Chari
Bentley, a 19-year-old reinforcement, who is
on the list for the next draft for France.
At a friend’s house they meet Mary Hatton,
a city typiste. Mary is no Avar film-
producer’s dream-heroine; merely a decent,
fairly good-looking English girl, troubled
by the knowledge that she is getting on,
and by the sexual neuroses of the period.
She yields to Chari on the last night of his
leave. It means nothing to either of them.
Later, Frank is wounded and sent to a
London hospital. He and Mary see a good
deal of each other, and fall in love. Frank
and Chari are in the same platoon. If
they had been the roystering cynics of
military tradition, taking their pleasures
where they found them and passing on care-
lessly, there would have been no trouble;
but they are nothing of the sort, so all the
materials for an inevitable tragedy are
there. Their grim and touching story is
interwoven with that of the platoon. Its
doings between the autumn of 1917 and the
Armistice are described Avith fine reticence.
You see the men in billets, in the line, in
raids and hopovers, and gradually come to
know and respect them all and to like
most of them. Everything is right; idioms,
jokes, prejudices, aspirations, brutalities—
the very names and nicknames are racy of
Australia. There is a brilliant description
of a London air raid, and an account of a
visit by some unwilling hospital patients to
a ducal seat which states the Digger atti-
tude towards such functions with consider-
able humor; but it is the stuff about the
front line which, in conjunction with the
poignant story, makes the book. Frank gets
blown up:—•
The battalion’s line was a series of holes in-
habited here and there by one pi an, but usually by
two or three. They (the men who were carrying
Frank) stopped at the first hole, occupied by a man
alone, who was peacefully smoking. He looked up
with a welcoming grin on his ugly chivvy.
“Got room for one?” asked Jim. “It’s Corporal
Jeffreys; he’s about ; been buried.”
“All aboard. Chuck him in,” agreed the other.
“You’re Dick Walton, aren’t you?”
“Yer; still.”
They lowered the corporal down and went off to
dig a funk-hole for themselves.
Frank sat back against the side, his nerve broken
and the tears dropping slowly down his cheeks. His
companion, rough diamond—usually no diamond
cither—looked at those tears with distress and a sort
of shame; shame not of the corporal, hut of him-
self for being squatted there to see them. He tried
to while them away with uncouth blandishments.
Here is the platoon after its last fight:—
They were seven—Bentley, Jeffreys, Mullane, Heeht,
Mclntosh, Johnny Wright and Thomson. The latter
had a deep cut across the back of his left hand
and Avas useless. Sergeant Burke was dead in the
communication trench, and so Avas Fatty Gray. Jim
Blount was missing; Darkey Landsdowne . wounded
in the mouth, and Dopey Kendall in the shoulder,
were lying in the support trench. They would do
well enough, hut Artie Fethers, who was at the
corner, was hopeless. A shot, or several, had taken
him in the chest and he was bleeding from the
mouth. Every few seconds his drowning lungs would
heave up and a fresh flow burst from his cluttered
lips. The others, with the exception of Frank
Jeffreys, who, with closed eyes, leaned his head
against the moist Avail of earth, looked on with
almost intolerable anguish. If Artie would only die!
It is all as simple as that; never two words
where one Avill do, never a pretentious word
Avhere a plain one can be found. No heroics,
no bragging, no sneers at other units, enemy
or Allied, and no false sentiment. Several
Australian books have been Avritten lately
Avhich, apart from being Avorks of art, are
accurate registers of vanished, or vanishing,
periods and conditions: Davison’s “For-
ever Morning” and Miles Franklin’s
“Blastus” are examples. This is another.
They should be kept alive, if only for the
sake of future historians.
J.D.
National Song Competition
A fortnight from to-day—on Nov. 16 —
the National Song Competition Avill close
at The Bulletin Office, Sydney; and
thereafter the judges Avill at once begin to
consider the entries, of Avhich nearly 300
are already in hand. The judges will be
Professor Brereton; Mr. Ross Thomas,
Director of Education, N. S. Wales; and
Dr. Arundel Orchard, Director of the State
Conservatorium of Music, Sydney. The
present competition is for Avords only of a
national song suitable for use in schools
and elseAvhere; and prizes of £25 and £lO
and five of £1 each are offered.
A Satchel of Books
In .False Truth, by E. Charles Vivian
(Ward Lock; 7s. 6d.), the murder occurs
“off,” so to speak. The story begins with
the conviction of the innocent but objection-
able Cosway and the remorse of his counsel.
Then a splendid young American plutocrat
butts in and sees justice done. The chief
interest consists in the sidelights which are
cast on the methods of London cocaine-
runners.
That prolific and admirable writer of light
romances Alice Grant Rosman has just
produced Benefits Received (Mills and Boon •
7s. 6d.). Biddy Kerlin is the nice girl this
time. _ She has no money, and loves beauti-
ful things, so her thoughts stray in the direc-
tion of the antique furniture trade. lloav
ever, she hasn’t to Avorry for long about
money matters. She inherits a fifth share
of her grandmother’s large fortune, and gets
engaged to Sholto Fenwick, who is an ex-
tremely nice young man. A delightful story
with plenty of shreAvd characterisation.
The heroine of Flora Sandstrom’s Let Me
Go (Ileinemann; 7s. 6d.) is one of those
wayward modern lasses avlio inspire lasting
infatuation in a number of remarkable men,
but can’t stick to any of them. The reviewer
has av atched many young women of the kind
in action in different parts of the world, and
in his experience they are invariably
ditched, and ditched hard. In novels, how-
ever, _ they usually get aAvay with it, and
that is what happens in this one. “Let Me
Co” has distinction of style and form, and
the characters talk cleverly; but their very
intelligence implies that they would have
seen through Mitzia without difficulty.
Empresses _ are about the only women who
can be socially popular though promiscuous.
The author of Ten Commandments by a
Merchant to His Son (Read Press, Brisbane ;
2s. 6d.) is Chas. 11. Gough, who made a
success of a paint business in his native city.
You can learn liis character from his book—
a “good citizen,” a bit of a wag, a church-
goer yet anything but a Avowser, and, though
no Einstein as regards his capacity for
original thought, yet the possessor of tons
of horse-sense. His opus consists chiefly
of advice on the art of self-advancement:—
I remember cases of members of Organisations
and Clubs of which I have been a member button-
holing me for business at a meeting, on the bowling-
green and in the Lodge. This form of business-
getting is obnoxious. Never tout for orders in these
places.
The world would be a pleasanter place—and,
incidentally, the criminal courts would have
a lot less to do—if the principles of this
cheerful moralist were widely adopted.
Faire Chapelle is the heroine of May
Edginton’s Tropic Flower (Collins; 7s. 6d.).
We have all met this pure, bone-headed lass
—at the movies. Left by her aristocratic
father on his death in charge of the cocaine-
vending island-hotel proprietress Avhom lie
married in his old age, She passes through
many unspeakable tribulations. She loves
the Governor. One of the A.D.C.’s —a
delightful boy—gets mixed up Avith Lady
Mira Worcester and Worcester gets nasty.
So Faire agrees (for love of the Governor)
to throw the enraged husband off the scent
by being discovered instead of Lady Mira.
It isn’t in the bargain, but she readily
agrees—shuddering with maidenly revulsion
the Avliile —to be found bathing in the alto-
gether with the A.D.C. Unmitigated balder-
dash? No doubt. But Miss Edginton’s public
will love it frorn the first page till the last,
on which' the Bismarckian young Governor
says (“and his voice sounded strangely
humble”) : “Faire, I’m yours.”
The Singer's Catechism and Creed, by
Blanche Marchesi (Dent; Bs. (jd.). A famous
teacher describes here the methods em-
ployed by members of her family during 220
years of teaching. “Those who seriously
wish to learn the truth about the voice and
its production may find it here,” she writes.
The only three A'oices she ever kneAV (other
than those of professionals) in which she
found little to correct belonged to Austra-
lians. They were the pupils of a nun Avho
had been a professional singer (Mrs.
Christian), and who used the Garcia method.
“Melba, too,” she remarks, ‘Avas a pupil of
Mrs. Christian in Australia.” There is a
striking chapter on ruined voices, and in
one, headed “The Intellectual Side,” she
points out that a voice without a high order
of intelligence is a wasted gift.
In a special article in next week’s “Red
Page,” Mr. P. R. Stephensen, who will
have charge of the Australian Book Pub-
lishing Co. (referred to in this issue on
Page 8), will set out his plans for this
new and important venture.
And a Little Verse
TRIBAL DANCE.
“We have grown pliant with life’s many
needs,”
They seem to say;
And so
In a long row
They crouch and sway,
Whistling like wind in reeds.
Their thoughts with fears are thick as shade
in leaves;
So each pretends
To be
A tall gum tree,
Blown till it bends,
And as it bends it grieves.
N.T.
FREDERICK T. MACARTNEY.
SONG.
The day springs up with a shout of greeting,
And the wind cries “Come away !”
Though the clouds that rollick above are
black.
The streets arc morning-gay.
In the noons the sun is warm, when the rain
Has tied, like a silver dove;
Although the summer was my girl
The winter is my love.
And in the dusk there’s tenderness;
The purple clouds are full
And soft as ripened berries, soft
And deep as banks of wool.
The trees arc sweet and quick with bud.
The mists close as a glove;
Although the summer -was my girl
The winter is my love.
Beyond and all about the stars
There’s space and endless space,
And avc are lost as avcll as they,
Running an unplanned race;
But for my comfort is the moon
Flying not far above;
Although the summer was my girl
The winter is my love.
VICTORIA.
JEAN IRWIN.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a. hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted ;
and no MS. will he returned unless stamps accompany.
Deekay; “Summer” is the better. But
there’s not much room for the nosegay poem even
when it’s more thickly studded with rhymes than you
fasten yours with K.K.: Not very g00d....
G.A.H.: Grand collection of commonplaces... .Bob
G.: It sounds real; and that nearly carried'it through.
But there are too many imperfections... .Ancel G. :
First stanza of “Orbost” is excellent;. rest ordinary.
The ballad is well enough done, but the atmosphere
is not Australian... .J.T.8.: It too often loses its
wings and flops into poor prose... .Tom A.: Don’t
know any paper that would print that last verse.
All crudely handled, anyway..'. .F.E.J.: Theme
beyond y0u.... J.L.': No new thought,-no picture, no
anything...A.G.B.: Underweight.. .Joan T.Forget
Swinburne and try again.. .H.C.M.: It is now playing
a requiem in the basket J.E.S. : A very imperfect
b100m.... E.M.R.: Kindergarten w0rk..... R.E.8.:
Judge that your pen hasn’t had much practice;
but it’s worth encouraging. Keep off “didst” and
such old forms. .. .S.A.: Hopelessly commonplace....
R.C.8.: Labored and threadbare Hotpoint: Get
off those stilts. People don’t talk like that —or, if
they do, nobody listens to them ... .T.F.: Sentimental
sing-song. .. .D.A.S.: A good lyric touch. “Desire”
gets very close. Illabo: Neither thought nor music
there .A.N.S.: You’ve got the spirit, but so far
know hardly a thing about the way it’s done....
R.8.C.: A picture; but don’t care for the staccato
manner...-Rxs: Greek galleys are old timber in the
verse market.. .Nancy C.: Try a children’s page
A.8.C.: “Our day is dark and yet Our night is
darker still; Night follows on the day”—tut, tut!
Don’t be such a Bolshevik!.... F. de J.: These hos-
pital nurses are responsible for a lot of murder. We,
alone, kill on the average every month half a dozen
songs in praise of Sister Nightingale... .Ross G.:
Merit in them. The Beethoven one might have been
embraced in more spacious times... .Avon: Quite
true. AVe’ve given it attention. .. .H.M.C.: “A.G.S.”
(Mr. A. G. Stephens) left The Bulletin staff
nearly 30 years ago... .Bellerive: Natural history
this time, and White of Selborne never wrote any-
thing like it:—-
DISCUSSION ON BUGS.
“I acknowledge,’’ said Jinks,
“That bugs have their faults.
But I’d never believe that
They take sumersaults.”
“You’re mistaken,” said I,
“In your opinion, my friend.
From crusty old ceilings
I've seen ’em descend.”
“A fairy tale,” he replied.
“You can tell it to mugs.”
“Go to blazes,” I snapped.
“I’ve lodged with bugs.
I’ve witnessed their feats,
And the truth I declare:
They can frolic and sprint
Like a bally hare.”
.. . .A.C.: Impossible at present... .Trebco: Much too
long; demand these 'days is chiefly for yarns of less
than 2500 words. Darcy N.: Off our beat....
Heresone: We weren’t talking about Ottawa at all.
When that article was published the Ottawa tariff
hadn’t been disclosed. .. .Hoviri: Only one tolerable
verse in four G.C.P.: Rhymed commonplaces
GIT.G.L.: But we don’t want the sort 'of verse-that
cah be turned out “by the yard.” You’ll have to
concentrate on. inches if you are ever going to see
print... .A.C.W.: The road in this case led down-
wards. .. .R.W.A.: Pretty enough, but we can’t pin
any worth-while meaning to it.—J.B.C.: Bald and
sterile , stuff, even for a hymn... .G.R.E.: Alleged
poems beginning “Awake, Australia fair” make us
groan in bitterness... .H.Y.: Not a penn’orth of thrill
in it....Le C.: Over-didactic and insufficiently
musical... .H.H.J.: You should have given more
attention to the girl... .L.J.G. and L.W.P.R.:
Exceeds space limit... .W.L.: Send it to Fleet-
street; it might be swallowed there... .A.W.:
Trifling .W.M.F.: Save it up for the reunion....
S.F.C.: A lean offering... .D.E.M.F.: No room for
that sort of travel' article... .8.C.: N 0... .Z.U.W.:
Lost no sleep over sick c0w.... A.E.C.: Wordy and
empty.. .‘.J.N.W.: Only, the skeleton of a yarn....
N.L.: You usually write better... .E.B. and N.R.:
Don’t know whether to blame E.B. or N.R. for the
mechanical plot. ’.. .C.J.A.: Cut down, it might do
for Smoke-oh..’. ;N.C.F.: Melodramatic... .R.S.C. •
A bit hardboiled here for that sort of stuff....
N.W.: Where’s the plot?. .. .W.H.P.: Just misses
E.M.: You were right; it wasn’t worth the ten
minutes... .W.F.: Heavy going. .. .D.C.P.: Nothing
striking about it... .E.A.A.: A fizzle. .. .M.P.:
Read Somerset Maugham’s “Rain” and see how close
your idea resembles his W.H.J.: Could have been
said in a par.... .H.W.: Stereotyped... .A.W.: Sensa-
tional nonsense... .M.D.S.: “The Voice” does not
cry loud enough for publication... .F.G.8.: An old
trick poorly described... .M.P.: Steele Rudd does it
much better... .8.L.P.: Tame p10t... .E.A.S.: You
must have got your ideas about Russia from American
movies A.H.: Both featherweights... .E.C.N.M.:
The end was never in doubt... .W.L.L.: Stronger
finish needed A. de R.: Turned down after hesi-
tation. But we’d knock out that “right” in the
second line.... Near Broke: Certainly the Service
Dept, would help you. That’s what it is f0r....
William H.: Yes, but exactly what reform do you
suggest ?.... Tresco: Sorry. Fact that a contribution
isn’t printed doesn’t indicate it was unsuitable;
may be simply space wasn’t available... .Alan W.:
It has an idea. But it is so slight.... Douglas S.:
“Auburn” has merit; but it is rather muddled....
E. : Spoiled by archaic phrasing. These Petrarchan
sonnets have to be done exquisitely. —Tyers: Fired,
and. no second thought needed.... Le G.: “Triviali-
ties’* rather too much so; still it’s neatly done.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M. 8.: Those wooden females!... .P.H.0.: Draw
the next lot in vanishing ink... .W.0.H.: You were
beaten to the post....Kut: Not even a starter....
G.E.H.: Don’t do it again... .M.E.: Atrocious sketch.
... .L.P.W.: Hopeless... .F.C.: Among the week’s
returns... .N.A.: Buy yourself an eraser... .V.J.:
Conversation between bluejacket and bluestocking
sent to Religious Editor for report... .D.S.: Work
doesn’t warrant such self-satisfaction... .P.R.M.:
What is the shrivelled object on the left?
F. : Might suit a comic paper for kids... .W.M.:
Jest pensioned off last century... .L.S.H.: Merely a
vulgarism illustrated.


v»)l
c
m
■ : “ v ,
p|§g
11*11
r~
»«. 'i
SSk
\x
I I j I
M m, Mi y/ v H
111 '"“xsi » * M a “$*
r *
■
■-v—'
■
*
§£/
mss
■ PPPIPPW
''fPPHE
B • gßk ; : : ' ■;:
mmM -m
f|p H M 11l *£', pßilll . 3 Mj?£* ’< ?' </k' M
■* : ' pH|b 19k, ,
<■>?■ •
: ; 4 «ff»R!iii: Iftiliit
.
■ - :
;*, " ■ ’-;■?.
I
sflp| L.i|l^
f
i
■" I-
k \
■Mf
■
:
I H
fds
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 2751.
November 2, 1932.
THE REWARD.
"The workers must show the spirit of Anzac in their fight against the dole questions.”—A. C. Willis, M.L.C.
AGITATOR: “Down with law and order, men, and if you come through alive you may have the privilege of being ruled by someone like my friend here."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
meekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12c, 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas i 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route’’: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for 4oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
THE CASE FOR A WHEAT
BOUNTY.
The suggestion that the wheat-farmers of
Australia should be again provided with a
bounty, this time contributed by the people
through a sales tax on flour, met at once
with almost fierce opposition. The “S. M.
Herald,” which a year ago approved of a
bounty, on this occasion set its face
against anything of the sort, on the ground
apparently that the proper thing to do is
to reduce costs. Said the “Herald”:—
The spokesman of the wheat-growers supports
their claim by pointing to the disparity between
the price of the loaf and the value of the wheat
which goes into the loaf. That is a matter of the
cost of production from the country siding to the
consumer’s door. Just as well might the miner of
iron ore complain of the amount he receives for the
ore out of which is smelted the iron entering into
the plough which the farmer uses and the cost of
the plough delivered to the farmer’s siding. Were
there no resistance to the reduction of costs, and
all costs were reduced proportionately, the economic
crisis would not have occurred.
If that is the best argument that can
be produced against the bounty, then the
bounty is as good as granted.
If the Australian wheat-farmer produced
grain only for Australian, consumption,
there vvould be not much difficulty about
maintaining a price on which the farmer
could live in reasonable comfort. His posi-
tion would then be precisely that of the
man who mines the iron ore. That ore
goes into a protected industry; and the
miner is protected along with the others
whom the industry employs. What iron ore
is worth in Spain or anywhere else is of
no concern to the Australian iron-ore
miner: he does not have to compete with
the outsider. On the other hand, of 500
million bushels of wheat grown in Aus-
tralia in the past three years we have had
to export 320 millions. Hence it is merely
absurd to compare the iron-miner working
for the protected local market and the
wheat-farmer working for the unprotected
markets of the world.
The “S. M. Herald” reminds us, how-
ever, that “the miners of the base metals
—copper, tin and zinc” (and it might have
added lead) —are in the same boat as the
wheat-farmer. They are; and what is the
result? Only one copper-mine ip work-
ing in Australia to-day; except very spas-
modically tin-mining h#s ceased; and of
all the zinc-lead mines at Broken Hill only
three are at work, half the population of
the town is on the dole or receiving some
other form of relief, and those who are at
work on the “Big Three” are at this
moment in great danger .of losing their
jobs. We can, no doubt, shut up the wheat-
farms as we have shut up the base-metal
mines; but only a madman or a fool would
suggest that we should do it.
And, anyway, the position of these two
industries is not the same. The ore that
is not worked to-day is there for to-morrow;
not an ounce of metal is lost by leaving it
in the ground. On the contraiy, when a
mine is worked at poor metal prices, only
the richer ore is taken; and thereafter it
is impossible in many cases to ever work
the low-grade ore at all. From that point
of view it can be a national loss to encour-
age the working of a mine at low prices. But,
except through the good that lying fallow
may do the land, the crop that is missed
on a wheat-farm can never be recovered.
That we cannot afford to subsidise base-
metal mining is therefore no reason at all
why we should not offer a bonus to the
wheat-grower.
At the back of the minds of some who
are resisting this proposed bounty is
glimpsed the idea that if the wheat-farmer
and his family can be starved sufficiently he
will cry out against Protection. This is
as cruel a piece of political strategy as
was ever employed. “With costs on the
basis of a protective economy and sales on
a Freetrade basis,” the “S. M. Herald” says,
the farmer “finds it difficult to make ends
meet.” Therefore, say certain people who
resist this bonus, let the farmer continue
to have a difficulty in making ends meet
until in his extremity he joins up with the
opponents of Protection and forces a reduc-
tion of costs. That thousands may be sub-
merged in the process is conveniently over-
looked. Many heartless things have been
done and advocated in the name of Free-
trade; but none in this generation, at any
rate, quite so heartless as this.
But while some may be prepared to let
the wheat-grower and his family starve till
“the protective economy” under w’hich he
produces is altered, the “S. M. Herald” is
not willing to go quite that far, having
some bowels of compassion left. “If,” it
says, “Governments consider that it is
inexpedient to force a further reduction of
costs, there remains only the raising of
prices to the grower.” Instead, however,
of adopting the straightforward method of
a bonus for raising prices to the grower, the
“Herald” suggests the backstairs and clumsy
and infinitely more expensive way of tin-
kering with the currency. “When the
bounty bill of 1931 was first considered,”
it says, “the price of wheat at the sidings
was Is. 7d. While the proposal was under
discussion Britain suspended the gold stand-
ard”—which, by the way, it didn’t—“and
the price rose to 2s. Id. To-day, when the
gold price of wheat is almost at its lowest,
wheat at the sidings is 2s. 4d. Exchange
has done more for the farmer than the
bounty.” The plain interpretation of which
is that if the wheat-farnjer wants further
help and the Governments will not or can
not bring costs down lower, the proper
course is to further depreciate our currency
by raising the exchange. Now, this means
that every kind of export, whether it is
already bonused or not, shall get exactly
the same advantage as wheat. Butter, for
instance, which because of the Paterson
scheme was 56 p.c. above the 1911 average
when wheat was 25 p.c. below it, would be
on exactly the same footing as grain. And
the same bonus would be paid to the pro-
tected Australian manufacturer who, hav-
ing unloaded the bulk of his goods at high
prices at home, shipped his surplus over-
seas. So, in order to pay an essential
bounty to a threatened industry of the
highest national importance, money would
have to be raised to pay precisely the same
bounty on every single thing that was
exported; and the producer who, by reason
of an extra-low price, is in the most despe-
rate straits would get less help than lie
whose goods fetch a high price, and who
is in little or no need of help.
It may be impracticable to offer any con-
siderable bonus to the wheat-grower. Bor-
rowing for the purpose is not to be thought
of; nor can we afford anything out of pre-
sent taxes. In those circumstances the only
method offering is to add something to the
price of flour sold in Australia. Approxi-
mately one-third of the wheat grown in
Australia is consumed here, so that each
3d. per bushel added to the price of wheat
con- limed in Australia will add Id. to each
bushel delivered at the sidings. In the 10
years prior to the war the lowest average
price of wheat at Australian shipping ports
for any one year was 3s. 3d. (1906); and
the average wage is at least one-third
higher now than it was then. It is wickedly
unjust that of all Australian workers the
farmer alone should be denied the benefits
of those higher earnings that have been
made possible by Protection; and if any
cry is raised against an increase of the price
of his commodity in this protected market
in order that he may be put on the same
footing as the great majority of the popu-
lation, it ought to be disregarded as an
utterly selfish cry. The case for a bounty
thus provided is complete.
THE CROOK IN HIGH PLACES.
If various Commissions which have lately
sat in N. S. Wales and Queensland have
not told us that we have suffered ourselves
to be over-run by crooks, it has only been
because they have been too polite. We
have been drifting that way for years past,
and the whole explanation probably lies in
the fact that nothing which money could
not buy has been regarded as of much con-
sequence ; almost, at the end, all our values
have been money values. It has not been
surprising in such circumstances that what
in times of clearer thinking would have been
regarded as corruption and crooked practice
became rife, and that the acquisition of
money became of infinitely more import-
ance than the manner of acquiring it.
The politician was responsible for much
of this degeneracy. There was a time when
our M’s.P. were unpaid; then for a per-
fectly good reason a small payment was
provided for them. The crows were soon
around the carcase; and little by little the
payment and the perquisites were increased
until membership became a financial prize.
Soon the crows were fighting desperately
for a handy perch on the fence. Having
command not only of the people’s funds
but of their credit as well, professional poli-
ticians learned an easier way of getting
votes than by earning them': votes were
things that could be bought with the
people’s own funds. It is not too much to
say that the competition for the purchase
of votes has thus cost Australia 500 million
pounds; yet so insidiously had Parliaments
been demoralised that probably not one
politician in a dozen of those who have
practised the corruption has realised the
depth of their turpitude. It was “ail in the
game.”
If only the politician had been demoral-
ised it would have been bad enough; but
besides being victimised, the constituencies
were demoralised, too. Here, again, good
had been turned into evil. In the ’eighties
and early ’nineties tremendous conflicts
had been fought by the trades unions, and
the results were not governed at all by the
merits. Out of that came the splendid
struggle for industrial arbitration—that right
and not might should decide these disputes,
But presently the vote-hungry professional
politician saw a new field opening before
him; and for a good many years past, at
every general election, he has been un-
ashamedly trying to bribe the electors with
a promise of a few shillings a week on the
wages or a few hours off the work or a
few pence a day on the pension. Mr. Lang
can be cynical in his at-times quite obvious
contempt for democracy. “I know which
party will win,” he told, his brother-Premiers
in Melbourne last year—“it is the one that
will promise two or three shillings more on
the wages.” Equally significant is a little
note printed to-day in “The Other Fellow’s
Mind.” Apparently quite unconscious that
he is saying anything dreadful, this con-
tributor warns any politician who may think
of making economies by reducing old-age
pensions to remember that old-age pen-
sioners command 200,000 votes of their
j „ _ r ( lu • t ■ j >
own and as many of their friends .
It might have been expected that educa-
tion at least would have resisted these
materialistic influences. But for the most
part it has succumbed, too. From first to
last it has become chiefly a means to earn
more money; and the change is defended
on the ground that it is “practical.” But
is it practical? Here is one man who
under one policy is happy with his ten
shillings a day and his books and his
garden; here is another who under a differ-
ent, policy has a pound a day but has
never been encouraged to cultivate books
or garden or anything else except discon-
tent and a “class consciousness.” Which
is the “practical” policy—-the one that gives
10s. and happiness or the one that has been
content to win for a man an extra 10s.
and has assumed that there is happiness in
that? Not for a moment is The Bulletin
suggesting that money has nothing to do
with happiness. A fat purse can help one
to be happy; but it cannot make one happy.
The trades unions have forgotten that.
They have even destroyed that pride in his
work which at one time meant so much
o i.;n„i i i
to the skilled craftsman. Indeed, of late
JZVIb 6 i- bee r\r°T A
m m the Policy of the Trades Hall than
m any other political or industrial body.
it has even associated sport and money-
making, it was the Trades Hall influence
which gave us the tin-hare betting device,
aiM loaded N. S. Wales with a State lot-
tery, turning even the State Savings Bank,
aftei its doors had closed, into head-
quarters of the public gamble.
T here was a time when the Church would
have been called upon to stop such a drift.
The Church may help to-day; but largely it
has lost grip. Other forces must be called
up. But they are forces which will lie dor-
mant until that vast majority of citizens
who are decent and honorable realise the
extent to which the lapse has gone,
Crookedness and corruption have made
such headway, not because any great
number of people actively and consciously
approve, but because most of us have taken
the easy course of non-resistance—as in
the matter of the N. S. Wales State lottery,
for example.
THE NAVIGATION ACT.
The Navigation Act presents one of our
knottiest problems, especially in regard to
what are known as the coastal clauses. For
very many years overseas companies com-
peted with those of Australia in the coastal
trade. The Navigation Act did not pro-
hibit this: it only said that things that
were required of the Australian lines should
be required of the overseas lines also. It
was in a position to order Australian ves-
sels to observe certain conditions; it was
not in a position to order overseas vessels
in the same way. But it was in a position
to say that if they did not fulfil the same
conditions as the Australian ships they
must not compete in the coastal trade.
And that was an entirely proper thing to
say. Since that time the overseas lines
have been out of the coastal business. It is
true that under amending Acts they may
secure permits to carry passengers in cer-
tain events; but except in the rarest cases
no advantage is taken of this.
Had all been well, inter-State shipping
thus protected should have made great
progress. But look at the figures—stopping
at 1929, because conditions since then have
been abnormally bad. Going back to the
year before the war (1913), there were in
the regular inter-State and coastal services
190 steamers, of 364,937 tons gross, with
accommodation for 9826 first class and 7635
other passengers. By 1929 there were only
181 steamers of 360,459 tons gross, with
accommodation for but 7983 first class and
1755 other passengers. During this period
of 16 years the gross revenue of the State
railways of Australia had increased from
19 millions to 48 millions; and the revenue
of the inter-State and coastal shipping cos.
ought to have grown in something like the
same proportion. But, as we have seen,
there were actually fewer vessels and of a
smaller aggregate gross tonnage in 1929
than in 1913; and the passenger accommo-
dation had been reduced greatly. And
apparently the further we went the worse
things got. Figures of cargo handled for
the whole period are not available; but in
1927 the inter-State cargo shipped was
5,764,631 tons (weight) and in 1929 it was
only 4,381,692 tons.
It is quite obvious that something nas
been radically wrong. Though we hav e
been practically debarred from using °' el "
sea s vessels proceeding coastwards, ° | j 5 ’ 1
empty, yet something has so stood m tne
way of our use of inter-State ships tna
their number is fewer than it was lo y eais
a £°> and their tonnage and passengei
accommodation less. Inter-State trade am
commerce should have grown enormous y,
and our steamer services should have P aye
a . vei T great part in promoting it. <•
a ™ie fleet, instead of being < ou
and trebled, as it should have been, ia»
a uS n a way.
16 Navigation Act was passed on h
assu mpti°n that inter-State services cor ll
, e - e ®iciently maintained by Aus ra
o n Australian conditions. The » '7
®^g est . that it is not being done, and
“ at raises Question whether the con-
dltmns are too onerous The idea was
° build Up - a st ™ n " Australian mercantile-
1° £ H* been £
.ci\ u e wea -er than it was ■
Zwln t 3 d T Thb
our national trade has been checked, inis
is not to be tolera ted.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS.
Six years ago The Bulletin, having seen
a school of Australian short-story writers
firmly established, decided that the time
had come to do something for the long
story—the full-size novel. Some good work
had been produced in Australia; but in the
absence of any regular facilities for the
publication of fiction, little attention had
been given to this form of literary writing.
Competitions were therefore promoted with
the object of ascertaining whether the Aus-
tralian would show the same skill in
handling the long story as he had the short,
and within the next three and a half years
£2OOO had been distributed by The Bulle-
tin in prizes. Since the first competition
was announced over 600 full-size novels
have reached The Bulletin office, and at
least 50 of them have been worthy of
print. Of those which have been published
abroad, in England or in America, six or
eight have won the warm praise of over-
seas critics. Of this number are “A House
Is Built,” “Coonardoo,” “The Passage” and,
latest of all, “No Escape.” The competi-
tions have shown quite conclusively that
not only the materials but the workmen
also are here.
Two years ago Norman Lindsay began to
interest himself in the question of book-
publishing in Australia. Lindsay had seen
brother-artists driven out of Australia
unable to find a market here for then-
works, and he realised that writers were
now going the same way. As a patriotic
Australian he rebelled against this. He
knew that for a nation there is no publi-
city as effective as the publicity of fine
literature; and he saw in this fact a national
call for a publishing house which would
nurture Australian writing. With that in
his mind he left Australia two years ago on
a visit to the U.S.A. and Europe; and with
it still in his mind he met P. R. Stephen-
sen in London.
P. R. Stephensen was the Queensland
Rhodes scholar for 1924. Having graduated
with honors in philosophy and economics,
he had proceeded to do something which"
Cecil Rhodes himself would have greatly
approved—to equip himself to be of some
special service to his home-country. He,
too, saw that Australia was without that
publishing centre which was indispensable
for the development of an Australian litera-
ture; and to him a nation without a litera-
ture was incomplete—was without the
means of satisfying a civilised need. Mr.
Stephensen proceeded to immerse himself
in the publishing business. He was still
engaged in it when Mr. Lindsay persuaded
him that the time was ripe for him to
return to Australia and give it the benefit
of his study and experience.
Arriving in Australia a month or so ago,
Mr. Stephensen turned to The Bulletin.
The Bulletin had., he said, been connected
with practically every Australian literary
movement of the past 50 years; the Aus-
tralian short story had grown up with its
encouragement; it had nurtured generation
after generation of verse-writers; and finally
it had encouraged some hundreds of Aus-
tralians to turn their thoughts to the novel.
Mr. Stephensen put it to The Bulletin
that it was the proper Australian institution
to come into the scheme for the establish-
ment of a publishing house in Australia.
When to his own representations he added
those of the largest distributors and retailers
of books in Australia, The Bulletin
agreed to put its resources at the disposal
of the venture.
So the Australian Book Publishing Co.
will be planted in the shelter of The Bul-
letin, though the two will have an entirely
independent existence: Mr. Stephensen will
be the manager of the book-publishing co.
How far it will spread, how great work it
will be able to do for Australian literature
and education and for Australia, will depend
upon the support it gets from the Austra-
lian press and the Australian people; and
it is wise enough to know that that will
depend largely upon its own conduct. It
will, of course, not be content with fiction
only. There are Australian “classics” of
an older generation which should be better
known to this. The publishing house will
try to make them better known. It will
give attention to poetry, biographies,
essays, plays; to reference books and hand-
books and educational books. All indeed
that a publishing house can do it hopes
to do.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
World Distress and the Basic Wage.
It was reported the other day that the
governor of the Bank of England had said
he could see no way clearly out of the
world’s distress. “I approach the whole
subject,” he said, “in ignorance and humil-
ity. It is too great for me.” All along it
has been submitted that one of two things
or some of both things had to be done:
costs must be reduced or prices raised; and
there were many reputedly competent
judges who had not much hope of the
raising of prices. Mr. Norman, the
governor of the Bank, has apparently been
watching the American experiment. He
has seen hundreds of millions of dollars
made available there during the past
nine or ten months in a prodigious effort
to raise prices; and the operation has
had hardly any effect at all. Certainly
there has been no visible improvement of
prices, and no alleviation of unemployment
has been reported. This has probably
killed what little faitfr Mr. Norman ever
had in any effort to raise prices as a means
of salvation. If that is so, it throws him
back on the reduction of costs; and here
he meets a vast difficulty in the shape of
resistance from the millions, of highly-
organised workers, especially in the manu-
facturing industries.
In Australia some of that difficulty is
apparent; and yet our system helps to make
a reduction infinitely easier than it is in
most places. We alone among the nations
of the world had legislation establishing a
basic wage to be governed thereafter by
the cost of living. It is true that this legis-
lation provided for a swift and automatic
raising of wages; but it also provided for
a swift and automatic lowering of wages.
Mr. Lang saw what that would mean in
N. S. Wales, and with his usual lack of
scruple spragged the wheels of the indus-
trial-legal machinery; so we had the
remarkable spectacle of a State basic wage
held at £4 2s. 6d. in N. S. Wales, while
next door in South Aus. the Common-
wealth basic wage had been reduced auto-
matically from £4 7s. 6d. to £2 18s. Id. If
we had not been provided with that
machinery for automatic movements we
know what difficulties we should have had
to bring about any such reduction; and
what difficulties we should have had others
actually have.
The Bulletin has from the outset been
opposed to the principle of the basic wage,
but it realises that in the circumstances
the two-edged sword now puts Australia
in a better position than perhaps any other
country in the world to meet and overcome
the depression. Might not other nations
now adopt something of the same sort with
great advantage? It is not necessary to
accept the principle of the basic wage:
indeed, it may be taken for granted that
hardly another nation in the world would
seriously look at the stupid thing. But to
require all wage-rates to automatically
follow the officially ascertained cost-of-
living figures is quite another matter.
Granted that the wage rate to begin with
is right, the automatic variation of it
according to the rise and fall of the cost
of living—which in practically every case
means according to the rise and fall of
the value of money—is a fundamentally
just and proper thing. It is not submitted
that the Australian system is perfect. It
allows, for instance, employers of labor
to disregard these variations; and so
long as such disregard is permitted, so long
will employees struggle to obtain it
for their benefit. Thus we have the mine
workers at Broken Hill and the employers
haggling as to the amount by which the
statutory basic wage shall be varied in
that industry. Such a system is wrong.
The law acknowledges the interdepend-
ence of industry. It says that when costs
(which means prices) fall, wages shall
fall, in order that other people in inter-
dependent industries may be able to carry
on. From that point of view what wages
they pay is not a matter that concerns
only the Broken Hill companies: it con-
cerns all industries which are in any way
dependent upon the Broken Hill industry.
Can Thrift Be Overdone?
A cable tells us that a group of a dozen
British economists have put their names to
a statement declaring that what the times
call for is freer spending. They are prob-
ably right. A business cannot become pros-
perous through at all times keeping its
money in the bank; and neither can a
nation or the world. The fact is that thrift-
lessness is so easy and so common that for
many years we tended to over-stress the
virtues and the value of its opposite. And the
campaign had tremendous results: through
so many people limiting their expenditure
and putting by their savings, the world was
supplied with railways, steamships, tele-
graphs and a million machines at a speed
which would not otherwise have been pos-
sible; and in the end the world has been
equipped with factories far beyond its im-
mediate needs. Even in Australia, so back-
ward industrially, we are greatly over-
supplied with certain plants—for cement-
and brick-making and motor-body building,
for example. The impulse behind it all was
no doubt admirable: men aimed at provid-
ing for their dependants or for their own
old age. But obviously the point can be
reached when the provision fails; for the
value of a plant lies wholly in the custom it
can command, and if people are too busy
providing other plant to be customers of
those already in existence, then the money
is not saved at all. Tlie time will come
when the world will have to again spend
enormously on equipment; for the present
it seems to be generally true that it is over-
equipped.
This, of course, does not suggest that
there is a call for waste. Times have, how-
ever, greatly changed. The enormous ex-
pansion of life assurance has to a great
extent displaced the necessity for making
individual small investments as a provision
for old age and family dependants. And
the well-placed insurance is infinitely better
for the purpose: the pooled funds are in
the hands of investment specialists, and,
if one here and there fails, the loss is
distributed over so large an area that it
is not felt. There will be some, of course,
whose income, being beyond their reason-
able requirements, will and should con-
tinue to supply that investment fund which
is the basis of modem progress; but for the
great majority of people of modest means
the better policy for the occasion seems to
be to make prudent provision through in-
surance, and, letting the individual small
investment pass, spend as freely on current
needs as their circumstances will allow.
♦
The Conquering Clerk.
Someone suggested that a reduction of
Commonwealth expenditure equivalent to
the total saving on a cut of 2s. 6d. a week
in the maximum rate of old-age and
invalid pensions could be effected by per-
forming another operation on the salaries of
Commonwealth officers receiving £lOOO p.a.
and upwards. Considering that there were
just on 258,000 old-age and invalid pen-
sioners at the end of September, this was
patently ridiculous; but the Government
obligingly produced a return of the officers
in question for the edification of the
House of Reps. This showed that they
number 57, and, allowing for financial-
emergency reductions, will receive in the
aggregate £174,404 this year. It showed
also that men doing work of high import-
ance to Australia are paid less—in some
cases considerably less—than others whose
duties are in no way urgent or onerous;
and new members were not slow to express
astonishment and disgust.
The list is headed by Mr. H. P. Brown,
secretary of the P.M.G.’s department, which
has been so heavy a burden on taxpayers,
though its counterparts in Britain and else-
where return steady profits. Mr. Brown’s
salary is £3OOO p.a.; the telegraph branch
lost nearly £400,000 in 1930-31. Then come
Rear-Admiral Hyde (£2250) and Railway
Commissioner Gahan (£1702). The next
highest salary is £1550, and 13 are drawing
it. Among the 13 are Mr. M. L. Shep-
herd, Secretary of Defence, or what re-
mains of it; his predecessor, Mr. Trumble,
who has been doing something or other in
London (he is called “liaison officer,” what-
ever that may be), and Mr. J. C. West-
hoven, the Public Service Arbitrator. Mr.
Westhoven has had at least one case since
he was appointed; in that his ruling was
disallowed by Parliament, and his position
is likely to be a sinecure as long as the
depression lasts. ' These very fortunate gen-
tlemen get £193 more than Auditor-General
Cerutty, whose criticisms and recommenda-
tions have been of great value; £194 more
than Mr. G. S. Knowles, who combines
the posts of Solicitor-General, secretary to
the Attorney-General and Parliamentary
draftsman, and £387 more than Major-
General Bruche, Chief of the General Staff
of what the Scullidores left of the army.
With these extraordinary facts in his pos-
session, McNicoll, the member for Goul-
bum. who was a Brigadier-General in the
war, took up the cudgels for his old comrades
of the A.I.F. and the R.A.N. who are
still in the fighting services. “Major-Gen-
eral Bruche,” he said, “is our leading pro-
fessional soldier, and would be the execu-
tive commander in time of trouble. __ Yet,
leaving percentage reductions out of the
question, his salary is £5OO a year less than
that of the civilian Secretary.” But this
was no isolated case. Since the depression
began the clerical staff of the Defence De-
partment had received far greater considera-
tion than the technical officers, all specially
trained men. There had been fewer dis-
missals among the clerical staff and more
had been retained than were necessary:—
In the ordnance branch of the C.M.F. the military
staff numbers 45, the civilian and storehouse staff
242. We have 1552 trained soldiers, officers and
men; they receive on an average £255 a year.
In the clerical branch of the R.A.N. there are 111
officers of all grades who average £353 a year; in
the sea-going service, 3160 who average £272. In
the Naval Reserve there are 23 on the clerical side
averaging £428, and 119 on the sea-going side aver-
aging £343.
In short, it is much more profitable to
tap typewriter keys and build files in the
Defence Department than it is to learn how
to fight for the nation, and keep fit, and be
readv to die.
♦
Is There Room Now for the Country
Party?
From W. M. Fleming, former M.H.R.:—
The Bulletin (26/10/’32) questions the
wisdom of the Country party’s continued
separate existence. A few reasons in favor
of such continuance are :
(1) It is the only political party in Aus-
tralia in which the electors have the right
to choose their man.
(2) The C.P. is based on the universal
truth that the human race depends for its
being on the soil; therefore primary produc-
tion. being the basis on which everything
stands, must be kept sound.
(3) Communism is a growing menace to
civilisation as we know it, and Communism
is the child of congested areas, over-centrah-
sation.
(4) There is a widespread and growing
belief that the power of money has become
too great and that the former Nationalist
party (now the U.A.P.) is too much
influenced thereby. As a matter of practical
politics, many electors, having to choose be-
tween Capitalism as it is and Communism
as it might be, would prefer the might-be.
(5) The C.P. offers escape from both
these dangers by saying “Choose your man,
and where possible let him be one who under-
stands the sheer necessities of primary pro-
duction and the worth of individual effort
in the sum of human happiness.”
(6) Without the Country party in the
field to hold out some hope, many primary
producers would give up the struggle and
strengthen the forces of disruption.
In reply :
The Bulletin could easily furnish a
dozen other reasons why the Country party
should maintain a separate existence. But
when the dozen have been added to Mr.
Fleming’s six, the whole lot would have to
be put into the balance against the threat
of Communism. Of course, if, as Mr.
Fleming suggests, a great part of the
Country party might prefer Communism to
Capitalism, there is no reason why they
should not fight to maintain the C.P.’s
separate existence. But those who are not
prepared to risk Communism will seriously
consider whether a united front should not
be offered to the danger which threatens to
overwhelm our civilisation.
4
Dame Sybil and Russia.
Dame Sybil Thorndike, the English actress,
and her husband, saying their so-longs to
Sydney, took the opportunity to gently re-
prove Australia for showing its displeasure
of some of their public utterances. For the
most part The Bulletin cordially agrees
with Dame Sybil: a hundred times it has
protested against various Australian cen-
sorships, against too general an Australian
inclination to resent criticism and to show
an intolerance of opinions which don’t
agree with our own. But The Bulletin
definitely parts company with the visitors
when they ask us to listen to those who
may want to preach to us the Russian
policy of Communism.
Whether capitalism or Communism is the
better policy for the world ought to be
quite a proper subject for debate; but, un-
fortunately, the Communists have made
the suicidal mistake of _ attaching them-
selves to the revolutionaries, and that puts
them and their theory quite outside the
toleration of a democratic community. If
Communism was prepared to adopt and
respect constitutional methods, it would
command exactly the same rights and privi-
leges as every other political theory—free-
trade, protection, single-tax, liquor prohibi-
tion and all the rest. But it is confessedly
prepared to take advantage of any and
every opportunity to establish itself—as
it did in Russia, where a mere handful of
men, reckoned at not more than 600,000,
imposed Soviet rule upon 150,000,000. and,
having control of the military, maintain
that rule. “We must at the first favorable
opportunity,” the Third International
ordered, “proceed to seize all means of pro-
duction and all articles of consumption. At
the same time we must mercilessly destroy
all remains of governmental authority and
class domination by liberating prisoners,
demolishing prisons and police offices and
destroying all legal papers pertaining to
private ownership, all field fences and boun-
daries, and bum all certificates of indebted-
ness.” If it was a small thing the minority
aimed at, less might be said about it; but
no quarter can be given to any organisa-
tion which proposes to do such things as
these by a sudden seizure of power on the
part of a “conscious minority,” and in de-
fiance of the will of the majority.
4 '
A Challenge to Capitalism.
“Fitz william,” a lawyer, explains:—
It is not altogether strange that capital-
ism and private enterprise are not more
enthusiastic about the development of the
Wolgan Yalley shales (B. 12/10/’32). The
average capitalist is not a wealthy man, but
is more likely to be an industrious sort of
chap who has saved up a few hundred
pounds, and expects a profit from its use.
I have recently had to advise a syndicate
of such capitalists with regard to a pro-
jected enterprise essentially similar to the
Wolgan Valley scheme. To begin with, I had
to advise that, before pooling the money
they were prepared to risk, it was essential
to form themselves into a limited company.
The risks attached to an unlimited partner-
ship in a speculative undertaking are too
serious for any intelligent men to incur.
But the law in N. S. Wales regards joint-
stock companies in much the same way as
the Middle Ages looked at the leper.
Having passed this hurdle, my capitalists
would have to acquire the land. This would
involve further heavy taxation, in the way of
stamp duty and fees to the Registrar-Gen-
eral’s Department, the Lands Department
and the Mines Department. Having acquired
the land, and the right to mine on it, they
would further have had to submit some
rather complicated returns to the local shire
council and pay rates on an undeveloped
mine. They would also have had to endure
periodical inspection and inquiry as to their
compliance with working conditions, and
pay more fees. The working conditions in-
volved the employment of workmen. These
workmen had to be paid wages at fixed rates
whether they earned them or not. The rates
and working conditions were fixed by a tri-
bunal in Sydney, not with reference to the
conditions under which the new enterprise
had to work, or the possibility of its making
a profit, but on what the tribunal considered
a fair thing for the support of the workman
and his hypothetical family. The workmen
then had to be insured against disease and
injury, whether or not caused by their own
neglect, disobedience or even deliberate
action. The insurance rates were heavy,
owing to the nature of the work. A further
tax calculated on the amount of the wages so
fixed would have to be paid by my capitalists
to provide for the endowment of other
families not employed by them. Further,
the employment of labor would have made
us liable to constant inspection and inter-
ference by union delegates, industrial inspec-
tors and others.
My capitalists were more or less dis-
couraged by this time, but they persevered,
and called in an accountant to give them
an idea of the possible profits of the concern.
That gentleman reported that if the property
contained as much raw material as we
hoped, and if the price of our product did
not slump, and if there was no further tax-
ation or alteration of working conditions or
wages, we might reasonably expect at the end
a development period of about five years to
make a net profit of 10 p.c. on the capital
invested. However, he warned us that, on
past records, it seems more likely than not
that a Labor Government will be in power
before the five years are up, and in that
case it is certain that further irritating
restrictions will be imposed.
At this stage the scheme blew up, and
my clients who, in spite of being capitalists,
are almost human, decided to leave their
money in its present investment. They can
get an inglorious 5 p.c., without much risk,
from Government loans.
♦
Dairy Farm Children.
Dear Bulletin, —A dairy farmer who
recently gave Melbourne “Herald” an
account of the daily round said, inter alia : —
The children, who have been doins their share, too,
since 5 a.m., have to get off to school, which may be
three or four miles away—but first they can wash
up the breakfast things. For everybody has to work
on a dairy farm.... By four o’clock the kids are
coming, hungry and tired. But there is no play
for them, either.
Every teacher in the dairying districts knows
that not only play but most of the things
which make for normal, happy childhood
are denied to these unfortunate youngsters.
A boy who has risen at sunrise, milked a
dozen to twenty cows, helped in odd jobs
and, after a hasty breakfast, trudged up-
wards of three miles to school is obviously
physically and mentally tired before school
work commences.
After some years’ experience observing
and testing children in a district where
dairying and grazing are the chief indus-
tries, the writer has found that boys and
girls from dairy farms are less educable,
less alert, poorer in physique and general
health, and less responsive to games, recre-
ative exercises and the lighter side of sehool
life than the graziers’ children. When asked
to describe activities of a daily farm they
write without enthusiasm, and their labored
sentences symbolise the disgust, weariness
and bitterness engendered by their experi-
ences. To them the cow is the embodiment
of negation, denying not only play but
most of the other joys of childhood; to
them the earth presents little of “the glory
and the freshness of a dream.” Parents
who have been repeatedly fined for their
children’s non-attendance at school have
said that they have at least secured inex-
pensive labor. Poorly educated themselves,
they set a low value on education, and look
forward to the day when the boy will reach
the leaving age. Having completed his
school career, with the educational qualifi-
cations of a child of 10 years, the lad
tolerates the home' conditions for a year or
so and then clears out.
If dairying cannot at present be profitably
carried on without exploiting child labor,
the remedy lies in more efficient organisa-
tion, increased knowledge of herd-testing
and modem developments in the industry,
and in equitable adjustment of the propor-
tion of returns to costs. The provisions of
the law relating to employment of children
should be extended to cover specifically all
occupations in which children are employed
on dairy farms. In all cases of callous
indifference to the educational and gen-
eral welfare of a child, there should be
rigid enforcement of the provision which
empowers the State to remove such children
from the parents’ custody.—Yours faith-
fully, Ratio (Vic.).'
♦
White Ants in India.
The real threat to British supremacy in
India does not lie in the spectacular political
agitation which is attracting so much public
attention, but springs from the carefully
camouflaged intention of prominent Indian
interests to supplant the British in every
department of trade and commerce within
the borders of Hind. It is these interests
which are financing the Indian National
Congress and encouraging its vociferous
activities.
So far considerable success has attended
their campaign. The great mills of Bombay
and other manufacturing centres which have
sprung into prominence of late years in
India are now largely owned by Indians,
and their output, while enriching their
owners, has ousted British cotton goods
from the country that was once Lanca-
shire’s most lucrative market. These and
other undertakings in which Indian capital
has been invested have been greatly helped
by the “Swaraj” boycott of British goods
preached and practised by the Nationalists
and fostered by their unseen backers.
But ascendancy in the industrial sphere
is not enough. As long as the banks, in-
surance and shipping companies remain
under British control, the dream of the
Indian extremists cannot be realised. The
gradual acquisition or replacement of these
bv Indian-governed institutions is the ulti-
mate goal of the movement. That attained,
there will be no need to expel the British
from India. The eviction will be automatic.


MS
m I
Said the doctor...
‘change to
CRAVEN “A”
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6. 50 in flat tins, 3/9. 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years’ Reputation for Quality
POLITICAL
POINTS
It was virtuously announced that the
Mouse of Reps., like the R.A.N., would break
with tradition and work on Melbourne Cup
day, but it made holiday instead, The
adjournment was carried in a confused
fashion after an all-night sitting, and cries
of “Crooks!” “Liar J” “Scum !” “Gutter-
snipe!” and “Rafferty rules!” rent the
atmosphere. Two or three weeks before this
outbreak a country member complained that
the tone of the debates is sinking to the
N.S.W. Assembly level. He blamed the
Gangsters, but they are by no means the,
only offenders (indeed, Beasley, for one,
rarely transgresses nowadays and is putting
some thought into his speeches), though
Ward may be the worst.
The official theory is that the financial-
emergency cuts are only temporary; thus
the salary of M. F. Shepherd, the Defence
Department secretary, is still listed at £2OOO
p.a. Nairn, the member for Perth, tried to
get £5OO knocked off it the other day, and
would have succeeded if four of Scullin’s
Ministers (Scullin himself was absent) and
his Speaker hadn’t followed the “Tory”
Parkhill. making a first appearance as leader
of the House. So the services of the gentle-
man in the Canberra office will still be
reckoned 25 p.c. more valuable than those of
the A .I.l'. general responsible for the train-
ing, equipment and leadership of the army
in all the States and Territories.
Australia is getting an excellent return
from its investment in Amalgamated Wire-
less, in which it holds half the shares and
one over. It drew a dividend (the fifth) of
just on £30,000 last year, and taxes and
other charges brought its cut to £153,500,
while the progressive concern is an increas-
ing employer of labor. If the Government
telegraph and telephone offices continue to
be sinks for public money the question of
handing them over to Amalgamated “Wire-
less will have to be seriously considered. It
would be one way of getting rid of the blight
of bureaucratic control.
The Premiers have been in Melbourne
considering what they will bite the public’s
ear for. Some of the banks wanted to make
it 20 millions, three-fourths of it to be used
to pay off temporary advances; the suggested
rate was 3£ p.c. To this Stevens objected;
his idea is that money will be much cheaper
presently. In the end all hands compro-
mised on a par issue of 8 millions for 10
years at 3| p.c., half to pay off old bank
advances and half to be available for new
works. The recent London conversion loan
was at 31 p.c., but it was issued at £97 10s.
on a five-year currency, so the cost was just
GIBSON: “Go on, Joe. Add a few more
noughts, and you’ll probably persuade
John Bull to lend you eighteenpence.
over £4 Is. p.c. Before that the last 31
p.c. loan raised in London by any Australian
Government was as far back as 1911; and
Queensland issued that one at £97 10s. too.
Yet Stevens has hopes of a 3 p.c. funding-
loan within 12 months —if Australia behaves
itself meantime.
Mobs of men who hew combustible
material for a living have an odd tendency
to express rage by setting fire to things.
When ‘ Darcy was declared the loser of his
first fight at the Stadium his supporters
from the northern coalfields relieved their
feelings by trying to burn the place down.
The Sydney timber workers made a bonfire
of Judge Lukin’s strike-ballot papers; unem-
ployed coalies in the Newcastle-Maitland
district did the same last week with bundles
of printed forms designed to separate de-
serving applicants for unemployed-relief
from loafers and impostors (one of Lang’s
Ministers confessed that loafers and impos-
tors were getting 30 p.c. of his crowd’s dole
expenditure). This was hailed as a victory
over the capitalistic Gevernment, but when
the leaders of the silly demonstrations pro-
ceeded to demand that all the mines and
shops should be closed and all the children
in the Government schools kept. ;at- home it
became clear that they were just a parcel
of Communists and blatherskites: So
the good sense of most of the coaly people
reasserted itself.
Corser and Roland Green, who represent
banana-growing districts, are resisting the
Ottawa arrangement on a new line. They
have asked the Agricultural Departments of
N.S.W. and Vic. to prohibit the admission
DAMOCLES LYONS ( bitterly): “I suppose
it’s one of the fruits of office they talk
so much about.”
of Fijian fruit, on the ground that it was
the medium by which bunchytop was intro-
duced. If there is real danger of bunchytop
infection the State authorities will have
every right to act. But there must be no
nullification of national policy on a pretence.
Vic. Cabinets nearly always have trouble
at Cup time. The Argyles’ worry is the
attitude of Cockies, Independents and some
U.A.P.’s, as well as Labor, on the farm-
mortgages issue; they want greater relief
given to mortgagors than is proposed in the
bill before the Assembly. To gain a little
more time existing legislation has been re-
enacted until Dec. 1. But for this mortgage
snag the Government would be getting on
very well with its plans for keeping the
deficit down to £851,000.
An American movie man has given a
striking illustration of Eric Harrison’s argu-
ment in the Reps, that our days of more
or less splendid isolation are no more. He
arrived in Sydney with a ’plane capable of
doing close on 250 m.p.h. Though taking
things easy, in a manner of speaking, he
was in Sydney one day, and in Melbourne
and Adelaide the next; then he crossed the
continent to Wyndham in a couple of hops,
and went on to Bima in two hours and a
half. Had the tripper and his pilot been
out to break records, they could have made
their whole Australian tour inside 15 hours,
for they flew the 1000 miles between Hong
Kong and Shanghai in 51 hours “against
strong winds and in poor visibility.” As
modern military ’planes fly, Darwin is only
ten hours from the nearest outpost of a
Great Power..
Replying to a deputation from the Council
of Churches, Cooper, the Queensland Minister
of Public Instruction, said his Government
wouldn’t dream of abolishing the Golden
Casket lottery. It would, however, be glad
to do away with starting-price betting, and
was considering whether it shouldn’t estab-
lish official totalisators in the cities and
towns. There is something to be said for
this proposal, but Cooper’s Government ought
to try letting people telegraph wagers to the
racecourse totes first.
Strange as it seems from this side of the
Commonwealth, the Westralian Labor Oppo-
sition fought every clause of a bill imposing
an unemployed-relief tax of 4|d. in the £.
In N. S. Wales a “Labor” Government raised
the relief tax from 3d. to Is. in the £, and
was with difficulty restrained from making
it ss. Westralian Labor rejects the view
that you can tax a country into prosperity
or industry into giving employment. Its
Collier Government applied a Commonwealth
grant to the reduction of State income tax.
It also refused to penalise old people in
receipt of income from property, and past
earning any other sort, for being thrifty.
Rates of tax on property income are the
same in Westralia as on personal income;
they are higher everywhere else, and the
Commonwealth fleeces the aged of a “special”
2s. in the £.
Not satisfied with its four monopolies,
the P.M.G.’s department is cutting into the
advertising business. N.S.W. country news-
papermen, in Sydney for tlieir annual con-
ference, had a go at. it on this account, and
Federal members are tackling it on other
scores. Thorby, the Calare member, de-
mands to know why country telephone
exchanges are “closed from 6 pan. till 9
a.m., and very often from noon on Saturday
till Monday morning,” without arranging
for urgent trunk-line calls—it could be done,
he_ points out, by plugging in at least one
private ’phone before the office is shut.
Riley, the man from Cook, is trying to probe
the mystery of the chronic deficits
(“£1,162,910 on the telegraph branch alone
in four years”) when substantial profits arc
the rule elsewhere:—
Last year the Maoriland P.M.G.’s department made
a profit of £980,000. Yet I find its charges for
certain services much lower than those made here.
Parkhill, the new Minister, started by being
affable to all hands. It is a discouraging
sign ; the Fentons, Greens and Gibsons were
too dashed affable.
Lang’s substitute, Badly, made a show of
being indignant when people on the dole,
which lias been so shamefully abused, were
asked to supply information for checking
purposes. He was icily reminded that many
more questions had to be answered in his
time by applicants for child-welfare and
family-endowment grants, and that the form
to which he objected was merely an ampli-
fication of one which his own Government
had issued, and withdrawn when its feet
grew cold. Then said the blundering Badly:
Our form was confined to the metropolitan area,
because experience on the South Coast showed that
the relatively low degree of imposition outside the
metropolitan area did not warrant the creation of a
costly checking system.
The truth about that “experience on the
South Coast” is tlmt the local Communists
roared at Badly, and Badly squibbed. Brux-
ner is not squibbing.
When Gandhi announced his fast unto
death because the British Government pro-
posed to give separate representation to un-
touchables he horrified caste Hindus. He
doesn’t want communal representation be-
cause it is too much like European party
politics, and party politics, so far from re-
moving caste restrictions, crystallise them
for ever. An Australian Trades Hall official,
or a Nationalist campaigner never thinks
except in terms of caste.
The Communist white-anting goes on
steadily, unceasingly. The plan'in hand at
the moment is to get hold one by one of the
more important branches of the N.S.W.
Labor leagues—the bodies which constitute
“You come with me, dearie; and if that
brute asks us where we’re going, you
just dong him one.”
the Labor party. The Paddington branch
finally passed over to them last month ; and
now attention is being given to Surry Hills
and Glebe. It is proposed to run a ticket
of Soviet candidates for the next Federal
and State Parliamentary selection ballots.
_ An American parson once lost a presiden-
tial election for the Republicans by describ-
ing the Democrats as “the party of rum,
Romanism and rebellion.” He was a mem-
ber of a deputation to Blaine, the Republi-
can candidate, and his seven-word denuncia-
tion cost Blaine the R.C. vote, though it
was urged on his behalf that his sister was
a nun. Al Smith, the defeated Democratic
nominee in 1928, has revived memories of
the parson's blazing indiscretion by letting
fly at the Methodists and their Mabel Wille-
brandt, most famous of Prohibitionists: —- .
Here are a few of the things in this life for
which I have no time. There’s the Methodist Con-
ference, the Ku Klux Ivian, all the organised Drys,
and that famous Methodist deaconess Mabel Wille-
brandt. Let’s go “Up in Mabel’s Room.”
The report says that 50,000 people who
heard, this outburst “rocked with laughter.
It is improbable that Franklin Roosevelt
joined in, if he was listening.
THE MONEY-LENDER: “Veil, von’t that suit
you?”
THE HARD-TIP: “No. If you was national-
ised like y’oughter be, we’d get it for
nothing.”
There have been hunger-marches in England,
and burning of dole papers on the N.S.W.
coalfields, and mob bashing of policemen in
Sydney, and savage talk about using machine
guns. Something of the sort always happens
when tilings have taken an unfavorable turn
for the Red Republic, and a very decided check
was administered to it at the Ottawa Con-
ference. Meanwhile, the law, which the
rowdiest “comrades” affect to despise, is
asserting itself at last. Sydney members of
the Communist organisation known as “the
Unemployed Workers’ Movement” have been
sentenced to terms of imprisonment for being
concerned in rioting at Bankstown. And
one F. H. Devanny, of the so-called
“Workers’ Weekly*” has been convicted-sunder
the Crimes Act of having solicited contribu-
tions to an unlawful association, “the Com-
munist party of Australia,” aiming at the
forcible overthrow of our institutions and
sieziire of property by violence. His coun-
sel protested that the information was “the
greatest insult ever offered to the trade-
union movement”; but the magistrate was
not impressed, and gave Mr. Devanny six
months. The section provides for deporta-
tion, as well as imprisonment, if the con-
victed person is not Australian-born.
From H. M. Russell, M.L.A., re the find-
ings of the latest Queensland Royal Com-
mission—
Messrs. Waugh and Josephson have been charged
with paying' secret commissions to butter factory
managers and directors, and it might be inferred
(B. 26/10/’32) that we were associated with them.
We have not been, nor are we in any way, con-
nected or associated with Waugh and Josephson.
My firm, in common with many other butter agents,
had been granting without permission of the Butter
Board greater discounts than the rate prescribed in
the Board’s regulations; also several agents, including
ourselves, have received a higher rate of commission
from the butter factories on the sales of butter than
the percentage allowed under the Board’s regulations.
During over 2| years my firm paid away in extra
discount to the buyers £1336 9s. 6d., and the
factory had reimbursed us by way of extra com-
mission £1302 3s. 7d., so we were short paid by
the factory £34 ss. lid. We were authorised by
our principals to meet competition by granting-
greater discounts to buyers. We contended that the
Butter Board was fully aware of the practice since
1929, and we produced correspondence to this effect.
The Commissioner declares that the commission
received from our principals and the discount we
paid buyers are secret commissions. We absolutely
deny this. In regard to the methods we adopted
for the payment of the extra discount to the buyers,
we are charged with paying secretly £9 13s. Id. as
discount on other commodities, and with crediting
one buyer with £9B 10s. Id. over a period of 2i
years as discount on kerosene; but in regard tp the
balance, £1228 6s. 4d., these discounts were paid
straight out to our buyers by cheques. We claim
we have a right to conduct our own business in
our own way. In regard to the Commissioner’s
statement that “Russell denied all knowledge of
the transactions,” it will be found on referring to
my evidence that I was only alluding to the pay-
ment of £9B 10s. Id. out of a total of £ 1336-odd,
and nothing else.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“L.R.G.”: At a recent sale of furniture
and fittings, which included a small statue
of the Mater Dolorosa, a Melbourne auc-
tioneer dropped this brick: “Lot 256, statue
of the Virgin. Now, ladies and gentlemen.
I would like you not to miss this. Wonderful
opportunity of securing a masterpiece. This
beautiful little statue is by that world-famed
sculptor M. Dolorosa.”
$ sfc *i» * s *
“C.Q.”: Marriage by proxy is not valid
in Victoria. A foreigner may stand in front
of a priest in Melbourne while his betrothed
is standing before one in Europe, but they
are not man and wife until they have
hurried off to the registrar when the lady
arrives in Australia. In Java proxy mar-
riage is an established institution. The
parties exchange gloves by post and the
gauntlet is an essential figure at the
separate marriage ceremonies. The necessity
arose during the sailing-ship days, when it
took months or years to travel between the
colony and the homeland, and anything
might happen. Even to-day the system has
its advantages. An F.M.S. planter paid for
his fiancee’s passage from England to
Penang and prepared a lavish wedding festi-
val. When he tore up the steamer’s gang-
way he was met by a perfect stranger, who
nervously explained that the beloved object
had become engaged to him between Port
Said and Colombo and they were going
on to Borneo. He offered a cheque
for the girl’s passage money. After
u moment of intense emotion the planter
said. “Well, you look as unhappy about
it as I do, and Allah alone knows
who’s the lucky one. Let’s go ashore and
bust the cheque up.” A few hours later the
jilted one returned, dragged his extremely
drunk acquaintance up the gangway, dumped
him at the feet of his ex-fiancee, said, “Best
day I’ve ever wasted,” and leapt for the
shore as the vessel cast off. The pair lived
in married unblissfulness for three years,
after which the lady bolted with a Govern-
ment official.
“Hotham” : The periodical argument about
the derivation of* “Digger” has been revived
in Melbourne.. One ingenious individual pro-
nounces it a corruption of the French “de
guerre,” which seems far-fetched. One thing
can be taken as certain —the term had its
origin somewhere in France. In the early
days of the war it was unknown in Egypt
or Gallipoli, though the troops had plenty
of trench-digging. Furthermore, it was
never used by the Light Horse on Gallipoli
or in Sinai and Palestine, though on the
Peninsula they did as much digging as their
infantry cobbers beside whom they fought
on foot.
“Esters”: “Wine Week” in Sydney aroused
a host of arguments for and against the
contention that habitual drinking of light
wines makes for national sobriety. One
temperance official struck a new note when
he averred that the “long-continued sterility,”
as he put it, of the French was due to wine-
drinking. Spain, Italy and Greece drink
as much wine per head as France, but no
one makes the same complaint about them;
in point of fact, small families came in
after the Revolution with small holdings.
The temperance gentleman also asserts, on
the authority of a school manual, that 100,000
French people die per annum from tubercu-
losis “due to wine-drinking,” and adds that
France is the heaviest consumer of alcohol
in the world. Both statements are far from
the truth. The drink trouble in France is
due. not to wine, but to the cheap brandy
so freely drunk by the lower classes. Den-
mark aiid Sweden, to name only two coun-
tries, have France badly beaten in alcoholic
consumption, most of it in the form of spirits.
* « * *
“D.”: A disappointed Sydney crowd takes
some subduing, but that it can be done, if
sufficient hardihood is employed, was proved
at Rushcutter Bay Stadium on the night of
the Palmer-Chastain fight. The prelim,
referee gave one of the most unexpected deci-
sions in the history of boxing when he indi-
cated the well-nigh unconscious Art Harvey
as winner over Max Raynor; and the crowd
went mad. Refinement, good form, dignity,
old-world courtesy—all the social virtues
which commonly reign at the establishment
directed by Mr. 11. D. Mclntosh—were dis-
carded. Howls and curses rent the air.
The referee was counted out repeatedly.
Came the Len Levy-Al Christie scrap, in
which Levy fared as badly as Harvey had.
There were idle speculations as to what
would happen if the referee did it again. The
general impression was that he would be mur-
dered, and the Stadium razed to the ground.
He did it again. For a few seconds there
was a deadly hush, and then a weird mutter-
ing broke loose. It sounded like the appalled
gibbering of a herd of monkeys in the pres-
ence of some frightful convulsion of nature.
Men cursed—but in whispers. Instead of
full-throated yells they fell back on feeble
moans and whimperings. I have an idea that
if the referee had come boldly amongst them
they would have grovelled at his scornful
feet. Ex-Premier Lang can get away with
this kind of thing at Sydney Trades Hall;
but there were over 9000 people at the
Stadium, and they can’t all have b.een
unionists.
* * * $
“Adel”: S. Aus. has appointed a strong
committee to arrange for its centenary cele-
bration four years hence. Adelaide was defi-
nitely founded on December 28, 1836; but
Kangaroo Island suggests that it had colo-
nists as early as July of that year.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Sydney’s first hangman,
according to one of the “S. M. Herald’s”
historical authorities, got his grisly job
very soon after the colony came into
being. “At the second court held two
men were convicted of stealing flour valued
at 15d.; one was sentenced to death, but was
pardoned by Governor Phillip on condition
that he should become the public execu-
tioner.” One sees Phillip’s dilemma and
admires his way out of it; who was to hang
the first man sentenced to death? And if
there was any hanging to be done—and
there was to be plenty—who so fitted to
operate as one who had escaped the rope by
undertaking to noose it for others? The
only thing history is silent about is for how
long the flour-stealer pioneered an old craft
m a new land, arid what fees he received.
Some hangmen have been themselves
hanged in the end: on the other hand,
there are instances of criminals having been
hanged for refusing to be hangmen. I think
it is Price Waning, in “Tales of the System,”
who narrates how in the early days of Tas-
mania, when the official operator jibbed at
ALI-BABA AND THE FORTY THIEVES.
his job or got too drunk to appear on time,
half a dozen or more of the men who were
waiting his ministrations were successively
offered a pardon by a perplexed Sheriff if
they would deal out death to their mates.
All refused flatly and dramatically, but an
outsider was secured to do the needful in
the end. Warung’s desperadoes, if there is
any substratum of truth in the story, must
have been made of much sterner stuff than
Phillip’s flour-stealer. Still there is always
courage in numbers and camaraderie, even
on the scaffold, inspires emulation.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Fifty or sixty, years ago
Maori members of the M.L. legislature were
viewed a little dubiously. It wasn’t that their
speeches wene found tedious; often enough
they were models of brevity. For instance,
old Mete Kingi once rose to pay tribute to
his race’s acquiescence in British rule. “Eng-
land is a great nation,” pronounced Mete.
“The Maoris are a great people. The Eng-
lish have called us to this great House. We
sit here. They have ’pounded my cow at
Wanganui. I have spoken.” But it was
the same old chieftain who was seen one day
emerging from a fishshop and carefully carry-
ing a small shark. For a week after that no
European would sit within a dozen yards
of him in the House.
“Dunkirk”: There is an historical flavor
in the cabled announcement that Lord
Howard, of Effingham, has been committed
for trial for the manslaughter of a pedes-
trian whom he ran over with his car.
The accused is a descendant of the man
who commanded the English ships in the
great running fight in the Channel which
ended with the de-
struction of tli o
Spanish Armada.
Effingham’s histori-
cal connections did
not prevent the
people in court loud-
ly applauding the
coroner’s fi ndi n g.
which just shows
what a fleeting thing
is fame. Even Brad-
man will one day be
one with Nineveh
and Tyre.
# & *
“Der Jong”: To
most people the in-
side of a whippet-
armored tank would
seem a pretty safe
possie in a little
war against a native
race. The crews of
a couple of tanks
who recently cam-
paigned with the
South African
troops against the
rebel Ovambos are
not so certain. When
the chief’s kraal was
captured the cars
disturbed the bees
maintained by the
inhabitants. These
declared a war of
their own, and
swarming through
the slits in the
conning-tower pro-
ceeded to deal faith-
fully with the in-
truders. As the
Ovambos were keep-
ing up a hot rifle
fire from the bush
close by, it was a choice between the bees
and the bullets. The lid was put on when
the tank crew tried to disperse the swarms
by firing Verey lights. Accompanying aero-
planes took this for a signal for help, and
dutifully bombed the kraal, including the
tanks.
“Uskub”: Curious how the same sort of
domestic trouble tends to recur in Balkan
royal families. Fifty ytears ago Milan
Obrenovitch was proclaimed King of Senna,
and he arid his wife Natalie began a period
of much the same infelicity as Carol of
Roumania and his queen have been experi-
encing these past few years. They quar-
relied and were
divorced, were
reconciled and
the divorce was
annulled; then
each in turn
tried to get con-
tr o 1 of their
only son, and
each in turn
was forced to
leave the coun-
try. Fin a 11 y
Milan abdicated
in favor of his
offspring as
Carol has
already done
once—but that
didn’t end the
trouble either:
he had a way of
returning when
least expected
and creating
fresh rumpuses.
All through, in
Ser v i a as in
Itoumania, the
sympathy of the
people was
mostly with the
queen, the mon-
arch being gen-
erally regarded
as a bad hat.
Finally Milan
was shot out
for good, after
having been
more than once
shot at, and
spent the brief
remainder of his
inglorious exist-
cn c e in the
gambling hells
of Paris and
Vienna. Alexander, probably as the result
of his stormy upbringing, came to a worse
end, and the dynasty ended with him. One
wonders what the future holds in store for
Prince Michael.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: It looks as if the Back to
the Horse movement is spreading to the
seaways. The sailing-ship L’Avenir, which
used to be a Belgian Government training
ship, has been purchased by a Swede and
will carry first- and second-class passengers
to Australia when she comes to pick up
Croweater wheat. This is the first time since
the ’nineties that a windjammer has engaged
seriously in the passenger-carrying trade,
though odd people have always sought the
old mode of conveyance, as more leisurely,
less expensive and more interesting than
being earted about by luxurious steam-liners.
v »<• ijc
“Rosario”: Jabez Balfour (B. 26/10/’32)
bolted in Dec., ’92; his place of refuge was
soon located and the extradition treaty was
signed at the end of ’93. The absconder was
arrested but managed to prolong his fight in
the Argentine courts for another 15 months,
and it wasn’t till November, ’95, that he stood
in the dock to receive a portion of his deserts
in the form of 14 years’ penal servitude. So
bitter was the resentment in England against
the master-hand in the Liberator frauds
STILL ON ITS TRAVELS.
“Marie was afraid her engagement ring wouldn’t he noticed
“Noticed? Why, at least three of the girls recognised it at once.”
that it was seriously proposed to scud an
expedition to South America to drag him
back —he was reported to be. living in
luxury, while hundreds of his victims were,
destitute. Something of the same sort is
hinted at in the case of In sail, the Chicago
swindler, who has found refuge in Greece.
PA’S PARADISE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In an address on ‘ltaly Under Mussolini,’ Dr.
H. M. Moran, of Sydney, said that parenthood was
encouQiged by all sorts of inducements; the worker’s
wages were increased with every child and the father
of a large family was relieved from all taxation.”
What though the family that’s teeny-weeny
In other lands displays a growing pull,
This .birth control enrages Mussolini,
Much as a scarlet rag annoys a bull.
’Neath Fascist despotism, nota bene,
It pays to keep connubial cradles full.
They bless the Duce, dads of tens and
twelves,
And just as heartily commend themselves.
On smiling plains or under mountains stony,
In city din or in the vineyard’s peace,
Pietro and Nina, Tessa and her Tony,
Manipulate the axe and comb the fleece,
And munch contentedly their macaroni,
And watch complacently their tribe
increase,
Assured that, each addition to the score
Will keep the wolf still further from the
door.
Want’s menace, unemployment’s evil spectre,
With ev’ry new arrival swift recede;
Where bold Benito is the boss director
Husbands and wives to concert pitch are
keyed.
He snaps his fingers at the tax-collector,
_ The Roman father, yes, he does indeed —
Not the old sort that histories admire,
The modern pattern is the multi-sire.
He’s paid to heed the Scriptural injunction
That fewer elsewhere practise than
profess.
Where Mussolini rules and black-shirts
function
Twins are emphatically tilings to bless;
THE REBOUND.
“And doesn’t he return your
affection?”
“Return it! Why, he throws
it hack at me!”
The thought of such occasions no compunc-
tion, , ,
And that of triplets obviously less.
The stork’s imaginative offerings
Get warmer welcome, all the more he brings.
O land of wine and oil, of milk and honey.
The home of poets and the shrine of
Popes,
Where fields are always green, skies ever
sunny .
On teeming orchards and on vine-clad
slopes,
Where being a parent pays and kids mean
money,
I wonder what you’d do with Mane
Stopes.
No loving cup upon Italian soil
They’d brim for her—except in_ castor oil!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Nikko” : My neighbor Biliks lias a hasty
temper, so when I heard sounds of an niter-
cation the other afternoon I was not unduly
perturbed. Mrs. Binks seemed to be keep-
ing her end up ; her observations on the new
portable wireless set B.inks had just bought
were extremely forcible. Five minutes later
Binks dashed to the fence and asked fi'*'
the loan of my dinghy. He boarded it with
the set, rowed to 'a point just opposite his
own flat, and dropped the thing into ten
feet of water. Long before lie reached the
shore Mrs. Binks was upbraiding him and
asking how her party on Tuesday was going
to listen-in to the Melbourne Cup. When
Binks arrived to borrow the dinghy the
second time he added a request for a clothes-
prop, so I decided to join the rescue party.
We probed the harbor bed for two hours,
and brought up everything except a wireless
set. Then my wife and Mrs. Binks, having
borrowed another dinghy, joined in the search,
and in three minutes their clothes-prop tri-
umphantly.brought up the gadget. I thought
to myself it was a thousand to one against
its being any good after its immersion, but
peace was restored in the Binks household
for the time being.
* * * H:
“Feng-Shui”: The worst faux pas com-
mitted by the London “Daily Mail” for a
long time was the offer of £lO,OOO towards
WHEELS MAKE NO DIFFERENCE.
“Speeding along like that makes life worth living, doesn’t it?”
Yes; and yet, don’t you know,, the people who walk jump out of the way just as it
their lives were worth living, too.”
the release of Mrs. Pawley and Cockran,
the two Britishers who were captured by
Manchukuo bandits. The reception accorded
to this munificent gesture by English-speak-
ing people in the bandit-ridden parts would
have surprised the journalistic stunters re-
sponsible for it. The bandits bank on foreign
Governments and relatives being ready to
pay large sums to save kidnapped foreigners
from outrage, but until the “Daily Mail”
butted in the full possibilities of the busi-
ness hadn’t occurred to them. Evidently the
London journal doesn’t know that in China
the last ten years 39 foreigners have been
murdered, 15 injured, and 151 kidnapped
and held for ransom. These figures should
be improved on considerably now that
Smooth Egg, White Wolf and Yellow Terror
know that eminent newspaper proprietors
are likely to come into the market with
competitive offers for the goods the bandits
trade in.
“S.T.S.” : Port Adelaide is losing a land-
mark in the Sailors’ Home, of which the
Duke of Edinburgh laid the foundation stone
in 1569. It was popular for a few years
till seamen thought its rules did not give
enough freedom. It proved too big for au
ordinary boarding-house, and to-day not
even a public institution will move into an
old-fashioned building of (JO rooms. So it is
being pulled down.
‘‘Savile Row”.: The Sydney “Sum” butted
into the Bulletin controversy about accents
the other night, and published this from a
correspondent:—
A speech by the Prince of Wales was heard on
the news reel in a Sydney theatre. 1 compared his
tone and accent with those of many Australian
friends, and failed to find any serious difference.
It doesn’t mean that the writer’s friends talk
like West Enders, but that the Prince
doesn’t. In Mayfair they say he has a
Cockney accent —particularly in his pronun-
ciation of “a” sounds. The explanation is
that he was never at a preparatory or public
school as a youngster, and that he has been
knocking about the world in all kinds of
societies since. English people with sensitive
ears claim to be able to notice American as
well as Australian intonations in his speech.
Compare his voice with that of Prince George
on the screen, and you will see what they
mean; Prince George spent his formative
years at sea and has a R.N. officer’s (i.e.,
a public school) accent. In this connection
there is a yarn that someone complained at
a hunt ball that the Prince didn’t use “the
accent of his class” —meaning the class at
the ball. His brother told him. “Which of
them belongs to my class?” asked the Prince.
* * :!: *
“0.M.” : Two years ago Wurdi Bulloc, an
artificial lake near Geelong, was secretly
stocked with trout by the local acclimatisa-
tion society. When the fish reached matu-
rity and the news got round anglers
descended on the lake in droves, using any
sort of equipment, including snapper lines
with hooks galore, and individual catches
of 2cwt. were recorded. A local M.L.A.
has been raising his voice against the
slaughter. Anglers replied by dropping
parcels of trout in his letter-box. The Parlia-
mentarian says he cooks and eats the bribes
and finds them fine; but if they put a
whale oyer his front fence they won’t
silence his protests.
“Bill O’C.”: “Chevroford’s” par. (B.
19/10/’B2) about the two partners who were
compelled in the end to sell their joint invest-
ment to pay the law costs involved in deter-
mining to whom it belonged is a story always
cropping up in some form ; but even lawyers
themselves may strike trouble in that
quarter. Recently I was asked to account
for the downfall of a highly-placed lawyer-
civil servant found short in liis trust funds.
I could only hazard as a reason that he had
been salted with costs amounting to a few
thousand pounds as the finish of a claim
by him to a supposed family inheritance.
“But surely,” said the shocked doctor who
had put the question, “his fellow-lawyers
would not charge him for their services in
that affair?” I had to confess that as a
matter of legal practice as well as natural
history shark eats shark with relish.
“F.S.”: Melbourne is on the whole a clean-
shaven city, but a chapter could be written
on its beards. Several painters wear beards.
A glance will tell you whether the wearer
belongs to the orthodox or unorthodox school
of artists. A few wu-iters sport beards, and
then there are sectarian beards, and idiosyn-
cratic beards, the latter belonging to citizens
who pride themselves on a resemblance to King
George or like to be different from the
majority. Recently'there was a fresh eruption
of facial herbage due to the presence of the
Fleet in port. It appeared that in the tropics
some of the tars grew lazy and for-ot to
shave, and it is an unwritten law of the
Navy that if a rating offers as reason for
his upshaven chin the excuse that lie intends
to grow a beard he is obliged to go on -tow
ing it for three months. Uninformed
patriots, no doubt influenced by the car-
toonists, associate a bushy face with Bol-
shevism. Local Communists. I believe are
to a man clean-shaven,
* * *
“Innisfree” • Thai- Rtttt™ a ■
the Papuan ° ; irl whn drawing of
in w Mch her & h» d t 16 canoe
and was told that tS ltf I ', ?™n a 'Y. ay ’
it rp, , bad supplied
0 f ovei" a c/nturv ara Th?? V' 3 ff n
0 f Abereorn toolf hfmsplf^f' l
serionsW that S Z ? and V? 80
« b bon even when shootmgT°and
hls housemaids to don new white kid gloves
before making his bed. He managed to get
Lady Cicely Hamilton, a cousin, made a
peeress in her own right before he wedded
her. It. wasn’t long before the lady got fed
up and arranged to bolt with a less terri-
fying personage. A post-chaise was to
be waiting for her outside the park gates.
Just as she was preparing to depart the
Groom of the Chambers handed her a note
from her lord. It said briefly that he had
been informed of her intentions and that,
since he did not approve of his wife leaving
his roof in a common hired chaise, he had
ordered a coach and four with outriders to
be placed at her disposal. \vblcssc oblige.
FORCE OF HABIT.
DENTIST: "Gats, sir?”
ABSENT-MINDED MOTORIST: “Yes, four gallons, please."
“Lucerne Flea”: In the German cocky
districts of S. Aus. sheep milk is used for
human food (B. 19/10/’32). Many farmers
not only use ewe milk at lambing time, but
also make a tasty cheese from it. Sauer-
kraut is common in these homes. “Gar-
gantua” is all at sea in his description of the
way in which it is made. It does not fer-
ment ; it is merely pickled in much the same
way as a gherkin, and in the windjammer
days was an excellent anti-scorbutic, taking
the place of limejuice on British ships.
Anyone who likes pickled gherkins can eat
and enjoy the genuine sauerkraut.
'C v v
“Lord Luvus”: Melbourne University will
soon be a museum of Victorian antiquities.
It was recently presented with the doorway
surmounted by statuary of the demolished
Colonial Bank in Elizabeth-street. Its
latest acquisition is the entire facade of the
Bank of N.S.W. in Collins-street. This
fine piece of architecture was erected in
1857 from designs copied from the Library
of St. Mark’s in Venice by Joseph Reed.
The sculptor was Charles Summers. The
stones are to be removed separately and
stored, to be eventually built into some uni-
versity extension. Another facade on offer
is that of the old London Bank in Collins-
street. The University’s own experiments
in architecture have not been particularly
happy. In fact, the academic village is such
a queer jumble that if the facade of the
State Theatre were offered to the council
it would find difficulty in producing logical
•esthetic grounds for a refusal.
* * * *
“Bill O’C.”: “Strict Veg.” (B. 19/10/’32)
should liave been more discriminating in his
wholesale lumping together of the German
publications that used to reach us, “Klad-
deradatsch,” “Fliegende Blatter,” “Jugend”
and “Simplicissimus,” as “pornographic.” It
was only the last of them that appealed
to the taste for coarse literary and artistic
provender. The others were (and probably
are; I haven’t seen one for a few years)
run on the lines of the standard old-
fashioned English and American illustrated
comics. To put the respectable old family
“Fliegende Blatter” in this category of nas-
tiness is much like levelling a charge of
indecency at London “Punch.”
❖ * *
“Jeames”: English film-producers make
quite as many bloomers about social condi-
tions in England as American producers of
English pictures. Iu “Frail Women,” for
example, an erring mother agonises all
through a movie, and finally puts her head
in a gas oven, because her daughter was
born on the wrong side of the blanket.
Absurd! Illegitimacy has never been much
more than a legal disability in tolerant
Britain. Nearly all the oldest and most
illustrious peerages have bars sinister in
their coats of arms. The Stuarts had
illegitimates in their own family, and
gave many to other families. The Richmond
and Gordon dukedom was one of several
founded by .Charles 11. Some members of
a very ancient family were legitimised
a few years ago. Not for social purposes—
the ones born out of wedlock have always
belonged to the same clubs and known the
same people as the others —but to avoid
inheritance difficulties. It was said before
the war that there hadn’t been a
House of Commons without at least one
member who was illegitimate, and at one
time there were three. As showing the
point of view of English country folk the
current issue of “The Countryman,” a quar-
terly which has such distinguished contri-
butors as the Duke of Montrose and Sir
Austen Chamberlain, contains this note:
“Basket”—This used to be the local word for
children born out of marriage. “It do run in the
family; my Mary wor a ‘basket,’ and I wor a
‘basket,’ and my mother she wor a ‘basket afore
me! ”
“Biunpk”: A lot of city limelight has
been turned on the Victorian Malice lately
owing to a learned Judge’s discovery that
settlers were showing contempt for law and
order by “Hogging wheat” and otherwise
evading their creditors, and Melbourne poli-
ticians have hastened to deliver sermons to
the Cockies on honesty and other virtues. The
note of recalcitrancy isn’t confined to the
country. It came out in a theft case that
out-of-works in an industrial suburb had
commandeered almost a whole street of
vacant houses. Nobody talked of having them
evicted. Following on a threat to stop sus-
tenance unless work was done for it, many
unemployed have accepted the jobs of super-
fluous beautification of the metropolis which
is all the Government can offer. One gang,
put on to demolish an old brick building in a
public reserve, registered its protest by
painting on the edifice in large letters
“Forced Labor.”
sje i'fi :1c
“Retired Volt” : A prophecy in the Mel-
bourne “Herald” of 50 years ago: “There is
no reason why people should not be able to
converse telephonioally over 12,000 miles as
well as 1000, and it is quite on the cards
that before this generation passes away a
merchant in London will be able to con-
verse with his correspondents in Melbourne.”
As the writer was thinking of the deep-
sea cables he was only exercising an undisci-
plined imagination. Attempts were made
long ago to use the cable between Tas. and
Victoria telephonically, and the Sydney-
Maoriland cable was handed over to an
inventor for the same purpose. He spent
a whole day joining up his apparatus and
rang his bell, but either the operator at the
other end wasn’t attending or the inventor
hadn’t anticipated certain technical diffi-
culties. Anyhow, the silence was terrific.
The technical obstacles still remain unsur-
mounted ; it was the undreamed-of Marconi
who fulfilled the “Herald’s” prophecy.
* * * *
“Mells”: If I live long enough I expect
to see Christian denominations steadily cut
down and amalgamated until there are
only a handful left. The movement has
been in the air for years, but a prac-
tical start was made the other day
when several Methodist communities in
Britain sank their differences and divid-
ing lines and coalesced. Sooner or later it
looks likely that all the Nonconformist
churches will follow suit and pave the way
for bigger amalgamations. The creeds are
only following the lead of trade and com-
merce. In my young days there were hun-
dreds of banking cos. in England; nowadays
half a dozen huge banks have swallowed up
all the rest. It is the same with newspapers,
chain groceries and 50 other co-operative
enterprises. It cuts down the overhead, the
weaker go under and the survivors wax all
the more vigorous.
* * * *
“Franzac”: While our A.I.F. battery
was camped in Egypt, Abdul, the cook, went
on leave to Cairo to have his teeth removed.
Before he could obtain new ones the battery
was sent to France, and after a lot of fight-
ing it stuck for the winter in Green Valley.
Behind was all that remained of Delville
Wood, a mangled horror of shot-torn tree
trunks and unburied dead. All this time
Abdul was toothless; fortunately his job
enabled him to get plenty of soft food.
Presently it was noticed that he was spend-
ing all his spare time in that dreadful wood,
.which most of us shunned. His objective
leaked out in the end; it was said that he
was methodically going through that awful
shambles in the hope of finding a set of
teeth to fit him. Anyhow, he had some teeth
when we left Green Valley.
FOR BEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I am for Beer— Presidential candidate Roosevelt.
“When I am a free agent I will stay wherever the
best Munich beer is to be had.”— Airman Bertram
after draining a tankard at Mascot.
\ou, whom our dads were fond of designating
As humming stingo or October brown.
1 doubt the dourest excommunicating
Will ever keep you permanently down.
When from earth’s ends these tributes simul-
taneous
Strike, like the pop of corks, upon the ear,
'These testimonials pleasantly spontaneous,
You haven’t much to fear.
What controversies fierce have raged about
you,
i And what elections have been won and
lost!
But those who deem a land will do without
you
Are mostly disillusioned—to their cost.
Twelve years have Yanks (in theory)
abhorred you,
The shell and schooner scorned and banned
the bowl;
Now Hoover travels half the way toward
you,
And Iloosevelt the whole.
The Vikings .sang you in their rugged runic
Staves, though the tang of hops they never
knew.
What memories you raise of stately Munich,
Of malt-bred Burton—and Milwaukee, too.
And statesmen streaking o’er the land’s
expanses,
And aviators shooting through the sky,
Still feature foaming pots among their
fapeies,
The same as you or I.
The Gyppos brewed you, time of Tutan-
khamen,
Herodotus and Xenophon agree.
They gave a mug of you to doomed highway-
men
To break the journey grim to Tyburn tree.
You’re ages old and deathless. Come, how
goes it?
The sun is high enough in heaven now.
Let’s take a leaf from Roosevelt, then.
Prosit!
Or, better still, here’s how!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


WHEN PROVIDING FOR YOUR DEPENDANTS
be sure you are in a sound, bonus-paying office.
Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Most Solidly Progressive of the Younger Offices
Has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin” 30/3/’32.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. MOONEY, Managing Director.
P. J. RYAN, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
yj, 1 IT!? C° llins Street, Melbourne ; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
King . William Street, Adelaide; F. 0. Lock, Resident Secretary.
\\ jshi r.KiN AUSTRALIAWarwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith, Resident Sec.
District Offices and Agenci es Throughout the States.
m
*
<0
$
c O.
v>
a
fsd
It pays you to
test your tyros
regularly once a
week—test them
with the All -
British Kismet
Tyre Gauge.
SMEI
-i,
f
The Kismet Tyre Gauge is the most scientific
and accurate tyre gauge on the market. It is as
beautiful as it is accurate.
The calibrated hexagonal scale is easy to read —
the pressure being recorded in large figures and
rising in individually calibrated 11b. units.
The external design makes it easy to fit the
gauge squarely on the tyre valve.
Supplied in neat leather wallet of handy vest-
pocket size.
Price 1 2/6
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD, G..P.0. Box 71, Melbourne, C.l.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some November birthdays :
Bishop Frewer (W. Aust), 49, Bishop McCarthy
(Sandhurst), 74, Prof. Skeats (Melb.), 57, and
sculptor Paul Montford, 64, on Ist; T. A. White
(“Diggers Abroad”), 46, on 4th; J. Maitland Paxton
(Syd.), 79, and Dr. Catalan (Abbot of New Norcia),
54, on sth; N.S.W. Senator Massy Greene, 58, on
6th; Prof. Woodhouse (Syd.), 66, and Atlee Hunt
(formerly of Federal Public Service), 68, on 7th:
knight James Elder (Melb.), 63, Rev. J. W. Grove
(Methodist Ladies’ Coll., Melb.), 64, and James
Cowan (Boys’ Gram. Sch., Bris.), 77, on 10th;
knight Hugh Denison (Syd.), 67, Prof. Cotton (Syd.),
49, and Vic. Govt. Statist A. M. Laughton, 64, on
11th; Samuel Mauger (formerly P.M.G.), 75, on
12th; Dr. Heavey (Vicar Apostolic of Cooktown),
64 on 13th; Rabbi F. L. Cohen, 70, and Dr. J. S.
Battye (Perth Public Library), 61, on 14th; Justice
Long Innes (N.S.W.), 63, and knight Arthur Rickard
(Syd.), 64, on 17th; War Historian Dr. C. E. Bean,
53, and knight pastoralist Norman Kater (N.S.W.),
58, on 18th; ex-Vic. Governor Earl Stradbroke, 70,
and Col. Donald Cameron, ex-M.H.R. for Brisbane,
53, on 19th; Major-Gen. G. W. Barber (Director-Gen.
of Medical Services), 64, on 20th; Principal Griffith
(Congregational Coll, of Vic.), 57, on 21st; Willie
Watt (formerly Federal Treasurer), 61, on 23rd;
Bishop Ashton (Grafton), 66, on 24th; O. J.
Cerutty (Federal Auditor-Gen.), 62, and Col. H. E.
Cohen (Vic.), 61, on 25th; Bishop Grans wick
(Gippsland), 50, and poet Rod Quinn, 63, on 26th;
Kenneth Binns (Federal Parliamentary Librarian),
50, on 28th; Justice Cussen (Vic.), 73, on 29th;
N.S.W. Speaker Daniel Levy, 60, and poet Sydney
Jephcott, 68, on 30th.
Two reminiscences told by Jimmy Thomas.
When a railway porter he was given a
shilling tip by a young subaltern. The other
day he appointed the sometime sub. to a
Governorship. Becoming a fireman, he
stoked tlie engine of the train which
carried the Colonial Secretary of the period
(the late Viscount Long) from Swindon to
London. Jimmy has lived to' be a Dominions
Secretary carried by that same train.
Archbishop Kelly, of Sydney, who was 82
in February last, yesterday celebrated the
60th anniversary of his ordination as a
priest. His Grace was born in Waterford
(Ireland), and was Rector of the Irish
College in Rome during the closing ten years
of last century. It was at the Eternal City
that he was consecrated Coadjutor Arch-
bishop of Sydney; he succeeded the late
Cardinal Moran as Archbishop a little over
21 years ago.
Walter Nash, who hopped into Tom Wil-
ford’s seat when the knight became High
Commissioner, hails from Birmingham,
where he was in business for several years
as a manufacturer of bicycles. He arrived
in M.L. in 1909 with a group of English
manufacturing agencies, and shortly after-
WALTER NASH, Maoriland M.P.
wards became a member of the Labor party,
lie represented the Dominion at the 1920
International Labor Conference at Geneva,
and in 1922 became secretary of the N.Z.
L.P. He is strongly anti-LOmmunist, a
pillar of the Church of England Men’s
Society, and a vice-president of the Insti-
tute of I acific Relations.
Because of illness W. L. Baillieu, now 73,
has retired from the directorate of the North
Broken Hill. W.L. was honorary leader
for the first and second Watt and second
Peacock Governments in ' the Upper House.
having declined a salaried job. He had
previously been Minister of Works and
Health under Jack Murray.
Sydney lost a shipping identity whose
name had become a household word when
Captain J. Vine-Hall passed out at 88. Salt
was in the Vine-Hall blood; an uncle was
in command of the Great Eastern when she
laid the first cable between England and
America in the ’sixties. The captain was
born in Kent, and spent 25 years at sea,
rising to be master of the Orient . mailer
Chimborazo. He established himself in Syd-
ney in 1883 as a marine surveyor, and began
a long connection with leading shipping and
insurance companies, in the course of which
his services were retained by Governments
on several Royal Commissions and Courts
of Marine Inquiry. He founded the firm
of Vine-Hall, Howell and Gibson, and only
retired from active work a few years ago.
A widow, five sons and two daughters sur-
vive him; one son was killed on Gallipoli.
Harold J. Stewart, who will be headmaster
of Wesley, Melbourne, when L. A. Adamson
retires next month, is one of the school’s old
boys. He has taught at his old school for
more than 30 years, and has been acting-
ft
HAROLD STEWART, Melbourne
Wesley’s new head.
head on several occasions. Wesley, which
was established by the Methodist Church of
Victoria in the middle ’sixties, has a fine
record of scholarship—due largely in the
early years to that brilliant scholar M. H.
Irving, who gave up a University professor-
ship to take charge.
Bill Blackler, just 70, has quickly fol-
lowed his fellow-sportsman Seth Ferry to
the grave. He was a boy when his father
founded the Fulham Park stud in S.A., and
succeeded to the management of it. He
was Master of the Hunt Club long ago, and
filled about every possible post on a course
for the Adelaide Racing Club.
Thomas, Sloane, who died at Young
(N.S.W.) last month, was not only a lead-
ing pastoralist and merino breeder. —he man-
aged Moorilla station in the family interests
—but an entomologist whose researches had
won him a world-wide reputation. He
specialised in beetles, especially the Cicen-
delidw and the Carahidw, and studied them
as closely as naturalist H. J. Burrell has
studied the platypus. Some of Sloane’s
classifications of beetle tribes are regarded
as the most careful and valuable in exist-
ence, and they kept the compiler in close
touch with British and European entomolo-
gists. He did a lot of travelling in pursuit
of his hobby, and his knowledge was always
at the disposal of others.
_ Douglas McKay, who is to return to Adel-
aide Children’s Hospital as superintendent,
has been getting three years’ invaluable
experience in London, Edinburgh and Man-
chester. He is a fine all-round athlete; was
a Sheffield Shield cricketer before he left,
and lias played for Scotland.
Viscount Byng, who has been appointed
a field-marshal, started his army life as a
cavalryman in the Tenth Hussars, and saw
close on 40 years of active service. Aus-
tralians will recall him as commanding the
Suvla area on Gallipoli at the end of 1915,
and in France later he took over the Cana-
dian Army Corps. In 1917 he was given
command of the Third Army, and was re-
sponsible for the unheralded tank attack at
Cambrai. After the war Byng (who had
been granted £30,000 by Parliament for his
services) was Governor-General of Canada,
and in 1928 was appointed Commissioner of
the London Metropolitan Police, a job from
which he retired last year.
Hugh Wright, Mitchell Librarian since the
opening in 1909, commenced a year's furlough
last month and thereafter retires. Born
in Sheffield, England, 64 years ago he is
an Australian by a half-century’s adoption.
He has always taken a keen interest in the
early days of Sydney, and will retain his
editorship of the Historical Society’s maga-
zine. He founded the Australian branch of
the British Astronomical Society, and is
sec. of the National Rose Society.
Field-Marshal Paul Methuen, whose
death in England at 87 is announced, was
a typical British regular of the old Eton
and Guards school. Of an old Wiltshire
family, he first smelt powder with' Garnet
Wolseley in the 1873 Ashanti campaign ; he
was once more with Wolseley in Egypt in
1882, and he took part in the Bechuanaland
expedition a couple of years later. In the
Boer war he commanded the first division
of the first Army corps which was detailed
by Buller to relieve Kimberley. He won
three hard-fought actions at Belmont, Grass-
pan and Modder River and was shatteringly
repulsed at Magersfontein by Cronje. Later,
he had his flying column cut to pieces by
Delarey, being himself wounded and cap-
tured. Delarey sent his injured enemy many
miles over the veldt under escort to a British
hospital. Always rather favored by the
gods, Methuen held many high commands in
the piping days of peace that followed, his
last being Governor and C. in C. at Malta.
A fine personality, persona grata to all sorts
and conditions of men in the service and
out of it.
Jim McCarter, whose novel, “Pan’s Clan,”
has just been published privately in Sydney,
is one of the “World’s” bright young men.
Born at Rutherglen (Vic.), he went jacke-
rooing and stock-droving in N. S. Wales and
in Queensland worked as horse-breaker, pro-
fessional fiddler, drover, boundary-rider, over-
seer, mining engineer and windmill expert.
He began to make a whole-time job of
journalism about eight years ago on the
Melbourne “Herald,” subsequently editing
the Forbes “Advocate” and the Bathurst
“Times.” “Pan’s Clan” deals mostly with
the Outback the author knows so well.
T. P. Derham, partner in the legal firm
of Moule, Hamilton and Derham, who died
in Melbourne last week at 85, was admitted
to practice 53 years ago. One son, Frank,
is a lawyer; another, A.P., is a doctor;
two daughters married meds, and a third,
Enid, is lecturer in English at Melb. Uni.
Herbert Middleton Hawkins, honorary
Minister assisting Jack Dunningham to run
the N. S. Wales Department of Labor and
Industry, has an unenviable job at present.
Dunningham has entrusted him with most
of the work in connection with the dole, and
some of the recipients are causing a d ea l
of trouble. In the Northern coalfields and a
few Sydney industrial suburbs the more mili-
tant unemployed, incited by Communist
agitators, have made bonfires of the new dole
question-forms. Like all honest citizens the
benevolent Hawkins must be puzzled at the
workless making such a fuss over the Gov-
ernment’s attempt to stamp out the fraud
that has been robbing deserving citizens. The
Minister was born in London in the ’seven-
ties, but for nearly 40 years has lived in
Sydney. He is managing director of H. W.
H. M. HAWKINS, N.S.W. Minuter in
charge of the Dole.
Horning and Co.. Ltd., president of the
Federated Ideal Estate Institutes of Aus-
tralia, past president of the N.S.W. Ideal
Estate Institute, and a member of the
Federal Valuation Board. He has always
been a keen social worker. The United Chari-
ties Fund, which has handed out £140,000
amongst Sydney metropolitan charities, has
him for its managing treasurer, and he also
looks after the cash-box for the Waverley
War Memorial Hospital and the Central
Methodist Mission. The Bavin Government
put him in charge of a committee which did
a lot of good work finding jobs for the unem-
ployed ; and he is still continuing his efforts
in that direction.
Prominent among those who said “How do
you do?” to the English cricketers when they
arrived in Adelaide early this week was B.
V. Scrymgour, the G.O.M. of South Austra-
lian cricket. This veteran has just com-
pleted 40 years’ association with the game in
that State, and to mark the occasion there
is to be hung a life-size picture of him in
B. N. SCRYMGOIJR, G.O.M. of S. A.
cricket.
the pavilion of Adelaide Oval. He first
became a member of the committee of the
S.A. Cricket Association in 1892 —the year
the Sheffield Shield contests began, and at a
time when George Giffen and Jack Lyons
were at the top of their form—as a delegate
of the Adelaide club. Since then lie has
filled practically every important position
S.A. cricket has to offer, including hon.
treasurer, trustee and chairman of the ground
and finance committees, and in 1928, on the
death of Harold Fisher, he became president
of the association. Since 1914 he has been a
member of the Australian Board of Control,
of which body he has been chairman.
Colonel H. K. D. Macartney, whose sudden
death at 52 is reported from Brisbane, was
born on a Central Queensland station. A
son of one of the State’s pastoral pioneers,
he was a grandson of the late Dean Macart-
ney, of Melbourne, and a cousin of Edward
Macartney, late Agent-General for Queens-
land. He made soldiering his profession,
joining the Australian permanent forces,
and went to the Great War as C.O. of the
Ist. Battery R.A.A., ending up. as com-
mander of the 3rd. Artillery Brigade and
winning the D.S.O. and C.M.G. A Sydney
resident, he was in Brisbane on a health
tour when the end came.
Judge Moule, of Vic. County Court, who
from his perch denounced as “pure anarchy”
any combination to defy the law relating to
creditors’ rights, represented Brighton in the
Leg. Assembly from 1894 to 1900. Williams,
the brother-Judge whom Moule consulted on
a point of law in the case wherein he made
this caustic comment, had also a glimpse of
law-making. He was a member for St.
Kilda in 1901-02.
J. N. D. Campbell, dead in Brisbane
recently, was for many years in the Papuan
Civil Service, retiring in 1920, when A.It.M.
at Losuia in the Trobriands. He was born
in Sydney in 1860, and prior to joining the
Papuan service had been on the staff of
the G.P.O. in that city.
Matthew Jasprizza, just dead at Young
(N.S.W.), was the son of Nicholas Jas-
prizza, a Dalmatian, who pioneered the
fruit-growing industry in those parts.
Cherries were his specialty; and the son
carried on the good work, being one of the
first to export his fruit to Maoriland and
even sending a trial shipment to China.
Celebrated his 100th birthday, in Adel-
aide, George Brown, a quiet citizen with
only one oustanding feature, a deter-
mined attendance at Parliament. After he
had been in his accustomed place in the
“gallery” for nearly 40 years, the members
of the Assembly gave him a gold-mounted
stick and a luncheon-party.
Colin Courtice, Queensland’s latest
Rhodes scholar, comes of a family well-
known in the sugar country. After taking
a leading part in A.W.U. affairs for years
Ben and Fred Courtice went on sugar
land in the Woongarra area and have done
well there. Turning old union energies to
public service they have become closely iden-
tified with local government, hospital man-
agement and the like. Fred was one of the
batch of “suicide M.’sL.C.” appointed by
Labor after the referendum that went in
favor of the Legislative Council.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
Written
June, Loss. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
£ £ £
1922.. 105,593 29,000 256,667
Profit.
Charged to Development .. £8,343 1 oc - 091
Debenture Costs .. £ll J “ ’
Pref. Shares.
1928.. 398,073 8 p.c. = £149,116* 92,304 108,367
Vote to Risdon Co-op. Council, £7,600 116,867
All Shares.
1924.. 401,953 9 p.c. = 169,131 212,020+ 35.065
Reserves.
1925.. 542,109 10 „ „ 216,269 148,536 142,240
Charged to Development, £7172 .. 135,068
1926.. 557,029 12 p.c. = 311,845 133,205 247,047
1927.. 544,607 12 „ „ 312,000 150,145 329,509
Charged to Development, £1369 .. 328,140
1928.. 513,732 12 p.c. = 312,000 145,452 384,420
1929.. 513,660 12 „ „ 312,000 138,828 447,252
Charged to Development, £lB4l .. 445,411
1930.. 428,156 12 p.c. = 312,000 137,632 424,035
1931.. 158,239 4 „ „ 104,000 142,768 335,507
Charged to Development, £4l .. 335,466
1932.. 234,903 4 p.c. = 60,000 151,000 359,369
•Including arrears.
tlncluding special amortisation reserve, £lOO,OOO.
The action of the international zinc cartel,
of which the co. is a member, in restricting
outputs to 45 p.c. of capacity, then to 50
p.c. and later to 55 p.c., improved the statis-
tical position of the metal, thus enabling
producers to market their outputs. But
prices continued to fall, as the following
comparison of London spot quotes shows:
Silver
Average:— Zinc. Lead. ("fine).
5 years, June, 1929 .. £3O/7/1 £2O/8/- 2/6.9
12 months June, 1930. 20/15/5 20/19/6 1/16.9
12 months June. 1931. 13/13/2 14/16/1 1/3.8
12 months June, 1932. 12/18/10 12/16/7 1/6.4
October 20 . . . . 14/17/6 11/15/- 1/7.3
Still, taking exchange into the reckoning,
zinc averaged £l6 9s. in Australian notes
for the 12 months to June 30, or about Bs.
more than for the preceding year. Also, by
arrangement with other members of the
cartel, practically full-scale production has
been maintained at Risdon, costs were
lowered, and surplus metal stocks, which had
accumulated and caused trouble at the close
of accounts in 1931, have been sold.
So the board put net profit at £85,090
as against £567S and £283,015 for the two
preceding terms —in the table net additions
to the reserve for depreciation, etc., which
now totals £1,541,656, are included with pro-
fits and then shown as written off —and the
prefs. again had to he content with half their
minimum requirements (they got a further
4 p.c. on Oct. 27), while the ords. were
passed by.
Zinc production was only 2197 tons below
the 1931 figure :
Cad-
Zinc Silver Lead mium Copper
Tons. Oz. Tons. Tons. Tons.
1923.. 31,283 691,062 4344
1925.. 46,929 929,500 7030 168 256
1927.. 48,605 1,134,000 7620 150 243
1928.. 49,117 994,000 7340 162 229
1929.. 50,001 806,000 6889 176 212
1930.. 54,150 669,800 5466 218 179
1931.. 55,282 708,000 5091 235 127
1932.. 53,085 367,000 2915 153 106
The concentrates, bought from the cos. at
the Barrier, assayed 50. S p.c. zinc, 2.6
p.c. lead and 2.80 z. silver as against 47.8
p.c. zinc, 4.4 p.c. lead and 6.20 z. silver.
Though the higher zinc and lower lead and
silver content helped costs greatly, it also
greatly reduced the quantity of silver and
lead in the residues. The production of
mono acid (56,822 tons) was 2046 tons
lighter, owing to contraction in the demand
for super, generally. However, the co.’s
own sales of super. (20,565 tons), which
are confined to Tas., were 3 p.c. better.
The extensions to the Risdon plant, to
enable, it to give 30 p.c. more output, and
operations on the West Coast, where the
mines and the mill at Rosebery are ready
for production, ceased nearly two years ago,
and the board set about reducing the short-
term deposits got in to finance the work:—
1929. 1931. 1932.
Debentures and interest £404,033 £404,033 £401,728
Sundry creditors .. 114,085 274,082 202,193
Deposits and interest.. 203,294 240,835 34,950
Overdraft . . . . 68,523 37,563 68,440
Mt. Read-Rossebery mines 442,205 449,783 451,955
Properties, plant, etc... 3,298,540 3,654,539 3,676,244
Book debts . . .. 310,277 238,804 159,034
Shares 68,311 226,179 229,148
Stocks 459,335 444,088 410,152
Cash, etc 405,887 281,694 304,760
Thus a further £205,885 of deposits w r as
returned last year, £71,889 was clipped off
the amount coming to sundry creditors, while
cash, etc., was strengthened by £23,066 and
£22,877 was added to the book value of fixed
assets. To do all this the overdraft was
increased by £30,877, and debtors’ balances
and stocks were reduced by £79,770 and
£33,936 respectively; surplus earnings and
the allowance for depreciation, etc., pro-
vided the balance. Altogether, the more or
less liquid surplus (£395,783, including
stocks and shares in other cos.) improved
£161,531 during the twelvemonth.
Thus far the co. has had no return from
its large expenditure on the mines and mill
on the West Coast, where only a skeleton
staff remains. But the outlook is not all
deep gloom: zinc was fetching £l5 Is. 3d.
per ton in London last week-end, the British
10 p.c. duty on non-Empire metals means
much to Empire producers, and largely
owing to the restriction of outputs already
referred to, the co- is meeting with no diffi-
culty in finding markets for its products.
Hence the prefs.—they carry a cumulative
8 p.c., advance with the ords. beyond that
point, and have priority as to capital—are
priced at 295. 9d. as against 19s. lOd. a
year ago. The return at 295. 9d. is 5.4 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The ords. fetch
19s. 9d.
Australasian Paper and Pulp Co., Ltd.
Writ- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves.
£ £ £
1922.. 69,421 8 p.c. = 59,720 10,000 10,509
1923.. 77,913 8 „ „ 63,885 14,000 10,536
1924.. 79,553 8 „ „ 67,720 12,000 10,370
Preliminary exes., £7675 .. • ■ 2,695
Pref. Ord.
1925.. 91,027 8 p.c. 6 p.c. =57,258 30,000 6,464
Deficit.
Reserves disappear, £lO,OOO .. 3,536
1926.. 97,177 8 p.c. 7 p.c.=72,585 23,500 2,394
Reserves.
Premiums on shares, £14,344 _ .. 11,950
Assets transferred to subsidiary.
Added to reserves, £89,107 .. 101,05/
1927.. 95,923 8 p.c. 8 p.c. =83,000 113,980
Sept.,
1928 t. 70,781 8 p.c. 6 p.c. =71,3961 113,365
1929.. 28,848 8 „ 2 „ „ 36,762 105,451
1930.. 73,978 8 „ 6 ~,, 73,727 251 105,702
1931.. 68,628 8 „ 5£ „ „ 71,417 102,913
1932.. 92,931 8 „ 8 „„ 92,209 722 T 03.635
♦Ten months.
tFifteen months. JDivs. to June 30, 1928.
Paid capital is £1,152,618, including 228,500
S p.c. cum. prefs., which advance with the
ords. to 10 p.c., and enjoy priority as to
capital. At Sept. 30 the lot, together with
the so-called reserves and £22,832 coming to
outsiders, was represented by shares in Aus-
tralian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd., and
£93,432 of deposits, etc. The manufacturing
co. took over the assets of A. P. and P.
and the .Cumberland Board Mills (Sydney)
in 1926 for scrip. Later it struck 4s. per
share (£320,000) off its capital, reducing
the figure to £1,280,000, in order to clear
the deadwood out of its accounts. No
adjustment in this connection lias been made
in the A. P. and P. Co.’s books.
The destruction by fire of the Cumberland
mills affected the 1929 figures, but there
has been an encouraging improvement since.
The extra £24,303 of profit shown by this
holding co. for the 12 months to Sept. 30
enabled an all-round 8 p.c. to be distributed,
free of the special 10 p.c. tax on incomes
from property. This tax, however, may be
deducted from the prefs. should conditions
become less favorable, the board says. Still,
the prefs., priced at 225. 6d. a year ago,
now fetch 30s. 3d. The return at the higher
figure is 5.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis, or
4.7 p.c. - on the same basis less the special
tax just referred to. At 295. the ords. yield
5.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. distribution. To pay
an all-round 10 p.d., the operating co. would
need to send along more than 12 p.c. on
its capital.
Trading results in the operating co. com-
pare as follows:—•
Net Profit
Year, p.c. Average
June 30, Net Profit. Capital. Dividends.
1928 .. £96,147 6.2 5J p.c. = £90,826
1929 .. 45,797 2.8 21 „ „ 40,000
1930 .. 102,720 8.1 7| „ „ 96,000
1931 .. 99,372 7.8 7 ~ ~ 89,600
1932 .. 141,201 11 10 „ „ 04,000*
♦lnterim.
Last final div. was not disclosed, but the
holding co.’s figures suggest that it was not
less than the interim. Exchange and the
tailff brought much business formerly placed
overseas this co.’s way, keeping the mills
fully employed, to the benefit of costs.
Hence the spring in earnings, notwithstand-
ing a reduction in selling prices. More and
more products are being packed in card-
board and paper containers, and, under
existing conditions, further improvement in
earnings is anticipated. However, the declared
policy is to pass on further gains to con-
sumers, which makes anything more than
10 p.c. to the holding cos. doubtful.
Payment of the insurance in ’29 and
substantial provision for depreciation have
resulted in a marked improvement in
finances:—
1928. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. £1,600,000 £1,280,000 £1,280,000
Loans, etc. .. 447,704 104,887 39,250
Sundry creditors. . 52,991 26,235 52,067
Freehold and plant 1,406,202 1,176,807 1,201,105
Shares other cos.,
etc 25,668 36,626 36,658
Stock . . .. 475,116 327,597 288,212
Book debts .. 151,593 193,390 266,933
Cash .. .. 17,311 32,604 48,445
Last year £65,637 of loans, etc., was repaid,
£24,298 was added to the book value of
fixed assets, £73,543 to debtors’ balances and
£15,841 to the cash holding. To do all this
stocks were reduced by £39,385, and £25.832
was added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors. The improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£512,273, including
stocks but not shares) was £89,804, making
the spring £368,948 over the last four years.
South British Insurance Co.
Net. To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1922.. 160,343 111-9 p.c.= 83,333 77,0101,006,098
Premiums on shares .. .. 34,013 1,040,111
1923.. 176,688 llj 90,268 86,420 1,126.531
1924.. 186,644 12J ~,, 98,866 86,779 1,213,310
1925.. 206,597 13.9 „ ~107,463 99,134 1,312,444
1926.. 232,030 14.4 „ ~111.761 120.269 1,432,713
1927.. 237,035 16 ~.,116.060 120,975 1,553,688
Unexplained additions to reserves, £57,910 1,611,598
Reserves capitalised, £257,910 .. 1,363,688
1928.. 214,333 12.1 p.c.=124,657 89,676 1,443,364
1929.. 233,831 12.9 „ ~133,253 100,578 1,543,942
Written off premises, £20,000 .. .. 1,623,942
1930.. 211,037 13.3 p.e.=137,552 73,485 1,597,427
Leasehold sinking fund included £9073.. 1,606,500
Unexplained addition to reserves, £66,776 1,673,276
1931.. 137,042 13.3 p.c.=137,552 1,672,766
1932.. 194,443 13.3 „ „ 137,552 \ lfi sql , fiB o
Written off premises, £40,000 j 1b,b91 I’bB 1 ’ b8a * 6 ° 7
The surplus from the last 12 months’ under-
writing was £60,255 as against a loss of
£6ll and surpluses of £70,221 and £92,287
for the three preceding terms. Interest and
rents were £4746 lighter at £132.908, or 12.8
p.c. on capital. The 13.3 p.c. dividend was
repeated with comfort, £40,000 was written
off the book value of premises, and, includ-
ing an unexplained addition of £l2BO, £16.891
was visibly added to reserves, lifting them
£658,017 higher than paid capital at Aug. 31.
The capital and reserves (together
£2,721,297) are invested in sound securities,
returns from which have followed close on
the heels of advancing dividend charges for
over a decade, thus leaving the underwriting
surplus available to swell the investments
and returns therefrom. So, although share-
holders have not put a penny of new money
into the business, 13.3 p.c. now calls for
nearly twice as much as 14 p.c. did in 1920.
However, now that we appear to have
entered upon a period of low interest returns,
gift issues are likely to be less frequent than
in the past. On the market 595. is asked and
525. offered for the fully-paid pound shares;
the return at the middle price is 4.8 p.c. on
a 13.3 p.c. div. basis.
Shareholders’ prospects depend largely
upon underwriting results, which have be-
haved in this way since the nineties of last
century:—
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. penses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £209,239 £136,160 £50,229 65.0 p.c. 24.0 p.c.
1905.. 297,822 180,009 82,366 60.4,, 27.7 „
1915.. 553,297 287,117 159,063.51.8 „ 28.7 „
1920.. 792,664 369,194 256,543 46.4,, 32.3 „
1925.. 905,917 496,709 313,382 54.8 „ 34.6 „
1926.. 939,533 521,003 318,358 55.4,, 33.9 „
1927.. 1,046,753 617,562 311,806 59.0 „ 29.8 „
1928.. 1,038,048 628,659 322,513 60.5 „ 31.1 „
1929. . 1,051,842 641,433 318,072 61.0 ~ 30.2 „
1930.. 991,647 617,069 304,357 62.2 „ 30.6 „
1931.. 847,718 566,942 281,387 66.8,, 33.2 „
1932.. 804,634 470,290 274,089 58.4 ~ 34.0 „
Thus there was a further shrinkage of
£43,084 in last year’s net premiums, due
mainly to the continued evaporation of in-
surable values. But claims, an uncontrol-
lable factor, were £96,652 lighter, and exes.
w T ere got back £7298. As trade generally
recovers, and merchants begin to stock up
again, premium income can be expected to
benefit. Results wall be governed largely by
the loss experienced.
Apart from £167,503 set aside to meet
outstanding losses, policy-holders could see
net tangibles equal to 295 p.c. of last year’s
net premiums, or nearly twice the amount
usually considered adequate. The funds
were invested in this way:—
1931. p.c. 1932. p.c.
Premises .. .. £549,965 17.5 £513,529 16.2
Mortgages .. .. 36,053 1.1 41,185 1.3
Deposits, cash, etc. .. 296,792 9.4 360,136 11.3
Stocks, debentures, etc. 586,081 18.6 590,027 18.6
Municipal debentures, etc. 446,809 14.2 443,347 13.9
Government securities. 1,149,134 36.6 1,152,244 36.2
Book debts .. .. 81,018 2.6 80,182 2.5
Thus most of the year’s surplus earnings
was held either in cash or deposits, etc., up
£63.344. The reduction of £36,434 in the
premises item, which appears at a con-
servative figure, was on account of the writ-
ing off, already referred to.
Smith’s Newspapers, Ltd. (Sydney)
To
f Dividends ~ Reduce
Pref. De-
June, Loss. 9 p.c, Ord. ficit. Deficit.
1924*. 63.961 11,346 Nii 175,"307
Profit.
1925.. 18,357 13,497 5 p.c.= 7,500 177,947
1926.. 35,199 13,497 7J „ ~ 11,250 10,452 167,495
1927.. 48,747113,499 12£ „ ~18,750 16,498 150,997
Portion of goodwill apparently sold to
Victorian co., £40,000 .. .. 110,997
1928.. 33,130 13,499 10 p.c.=15,000 4,631 106,366
1929.. 37,332 13,500 124,. ~18,750 5,082 101,284,
“Guardian” sold; “Referee” and
“Arrow” bought.
Net reduction in goodwill, £41,500.. 59,784
Added reserves, £39,807 .. .. 19,977
1930.. 14,874 13,500 t 1,374 18,603
Unexplained reduction in reserves,
£14,100 32,703
Loss.
1931.. 11,476 13,500 Nil 57,679
Unexplained additions to reserves,
£41,553 16,126
Payments to Vic. co.. £33,194 . . 49,£20
1932.. 17,186 3,.375§ Nil -- 69,881
*l4 months, tlncludes £9406 unexplained additions
to reserves. JUndiselosed special distribution made
to ords. out of profit on sale of “Daily Guardian.”
§For quarter ended June 30, 1931.
The goodwill of the now defunct “Daily
Guardian” and “Sunday Guardian” was
.sold to Associated early in 1930 for
£575,000 —£400,000 in 7 p.c. cum. prefs.
and the balance cash. After wiping
out the £lOO,OOO of goodwill, at which
the “Guardian” had been capitalised,
most of the balance, including all the
prefs. (Joynton Smith, 200.000; R. C.
Packer, 150,000; D. F. H. Packer, 25,000;
L. Deer, 25,000). was handed to the
ords. Thus the co. lost the right to
£28,000 p.a. in divs. (now subject to
the statutory cut of 22|- p.c.), or more
than twice the annual requirements of
its own pref. capital, which was got in
10 years ago to finance the launching of
the “Guardian.” Then the goodwill of the
“Referee” and “Arrow,” two sporting jour-
nals, was bought at a “satisfactory price,”
reputed to be £40,000; and, after capitalising
over £lB,OOO of exes., net profit was
put at £14,874 for the 12 months to June
30, 3930. In the following year the declared
loss was £31,476; in addition £14,100 of
reserves disappeared.
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts the trading loss was figured at
£17,186. Also £12,340 was handed to the
Victorian subsidiary (this was on account
of agency rights and dividend guarantee on
£150.000 of 8 p.c. pref. money) ; another
£20,554, paid under the same headings in
’29 and ’3l, but which had been unobtru-
sively capitalised, was written off as irre-
coverable ; and £3375 was handed to the
prefs. in respect of the June quai'ter of
1931. But while £53,755 of sundry reserves
was thus rubbed out, £41,553 was added to
them, leaving the figure (£48,619) £69,881
short of the goodwill and establishment
account (£118,500) at June 30. The addi-
tion represented the market value of 80.000
Associated prefs. which Joynton Smith had
handed back to the co. Incidentally, when
R. C. Packer joined the staff of Associated,
he sold his ord. shares in Smith’s to Joynton
Smith, but held on to his Associated prefs..
and Joynton Smith agreed to indemnify him
against any liability that might arise in
respect of the distribution of these pref.
shares.
The position so far as balance-sheet
figures show it is as follows:
1924. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £299,966 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities . . 55,277 271,528 255,456 204,621
Freeholds .. 43,155 161,857 161,857 161,857
Plant, etc. .. 67,427 68,986 62,433 56,685
Stock .. 17,735 23,409 ] I 17,121
Book debts, cash,
etc. .. 51,536 237,592 j- 273,488 j 111,991
Shares in other
cos. . . 84 61,081 J [ 87,095
Despite the year’s loss and payments already
referred to, £50,90S was clipped off the over-
draft, reducing it to £54,277 at June 30.
The amount coming to sundry creditors
(£50,036) was £662 lighter, while mortgages
and accrued charges (£100.308) advanced
£735. Associated had reduced the cash
owing in connection with the purchase of
the “Guardian” from £140.000 at the end
of September, 1931, to £84,000 in March
last. But notwithstanding this and the
pref. shares that were taken into account,
the more or less liquid surplus (£11,576.
including stocks and shares in other cos.)
was £6456 lighter than at the close of
accounts in 1931.
The return of 15s. per pound of pref.
capital by the Vie. co. (it put a blister on
its freehold for the purpose) has lessened
the parent’s contingent liability in this con-
nection : there is, however, the possibility
that litigation may involve the parent in
heavy expense. The market prices the profs,
at ss. as against 10s. a year ago. Allowing
for the statutory cut. there will be 2s. lid.
per share (=£21,686) coming to them at next-
balance. The book value of the net tangible
cover is 31s. Id.
Adelaide Cement Co., Ltd.
f Dividends
Pref. Depreci-
(7J Re- ation
May, Profits, p.c.) Ord. serves. Reserves.
££& £ ■ &
1925.. 20.773 1163 124 p.c. = 18,967 10,738 32,500
(8 p.c.)
1926.. 19.217 1200 10 „ „ 16,592 12,163 50,000
1927. 1200 15 „ „ 24,888 12,505 75,000
1928.. 28.425 1200 15 „ „ 24,888 14,842 92,500
1929. 1200 15 „ „ 24,888 12,420 110,000
1930. 1200 15 „ „ 24,888 11,482 117,500
1931.. 21.238 1200 124 ~ ~ 20,740 10,780 119,000
Invest, fluctuation reserve, £2500 . . 13,280 119,000
1932.. 17,980 1200 10 p.c. = 16,592 13,468 120,000
This well-handled concern and the South
Aus. Portland Co., each with a plant capacity
of around 70,000 tons per annum, share the
cement market in their home State, where
the industry is not nearly in such a bad way
as it is in the Eastern States. Yet quite
bad enough. Sales in S. Aus. reached their
peak (170,000 tons) in 1926; the figure had
dropped t 0 71,300 toms in 1930, and to
46,900 tons for 1931.
But this Adelaide Cement Co. has nearly
as much invested outside the business
in “Government stocks and other in-
vestments” as in it, and that has helped to
steady earnings. Including £2500 earmarked
as an investment fluctuation reserve, de-
clared net earnings for the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts were only
£758 short of the 1931 figure. Allowing for
the pref. div., there was enough to show
11.6 p.c. on the £165,923 of ord. capital, as
against 12, 13.8, 13.5, 16.4 and 15.2 p.c.
back to 1927. So 21 points wmre chipped off
the ord. div., reducing it to 10 p.c., making
the average over the last eight years 13.1
p.c. Moreover. 10 p.c. is now equal to
14.9 p.c. on capital as .it stood before the
gift issue (£55,028) in 1925. But all this
leaves out of the reckoning the depreciation
reserve, to which £87,500 has been added
during the last seven years, lifting the figure
to £120.000 at May 31. The net addition
for the 12 months to that date was £lOOO as
against £l5OO, £7500. £17,500 and £17,500
for the four preceding years. Include a
substantial part of these additions with
profits and the “Wild Cat” won't quarrel
with you; it was out of this fund that most
of the gift already referred to was provided,
At the close of last accounts the deprecia-
tion and other reserves, and more besides,
were all represented by Government securi-
ties and other investments, in at cost
(£152.470, up £2320 during the year)
1925. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £18’0, 773 £180,923 £180,923 £180,923
Other liabilities 9,841 5,434 3,795 3,400
Freeholds, plant,
etc. .. 146,108 152,245 152,220 152,154
Stocks .. 18,580 6,960 10,712 5,3/9
Debtors .. 19,070 7,648 4,979 8,503
Investments .. 64,583 162,150 150,150 152,4(0
Cash, etc. .. 2,460 11,295 15,764 19,830
Thus tile more or less liquid surplus
(£1.82,782, including stqeks) improved £4972
during the year. After allowing bare cover
for the £15,000 of pref. capital, the balance
was equal to 20s. 2d. per pound of paid-up
ord. capital.
So, although it may be a while before the
plant, which is reported in good order and
thoroughlv up-to-date, again works to any-
thing approaching capacity, the market
offers 325. for the fully-paid £1 ords. The
return at that figure is 6.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. At 265. the strongly protected
prefs. return 6.1 p.c. Assuming that the
whole of the pref. and half the ord. capital
was returned, the investor at 325. who looks
for a shade under 6 p.c. on his money
counts on a 13 p.c. div. oh the remaining
capital.
Hordern Bros., Ltd.
, Dividends x Towards
Prefs. Re-
Fcb., Profit. 9 p.c. Ords. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1923. .13,515 5,079 Nil 8,43 6 49,480
July,
1924*. 11,547 13,500 Nil 51,433
1925.. 14,460 9,000 Nil 5,460 45,973
1926.-30,857 9,000 6 p.c. = 13,500 8,357 37,616
1927.. 40.639 9,000 6 „ „ 13,500 18,139 19,477
Reserves.
1928. .42,596 9,000 6 „ „ 13,500 20,096 '619
1929.. 43.046 9,000 6 „ „ 13,500 20,546 21,165
Preliminary exes., £3275 .. .. 17,890
8 & 9 p.c.
1930. .27,725 12,939 4 p.c. = 9,000 5,786 23,6/6
1931. .17.319 17,000 Nil 319 23,995
1932.. 28.231 14,291 6 p.c. = 13,500 440 24,430
♦Seventeen months.
When the public came in 10 years ago there
was trouble with stocks, but the misealeu-
-1 ation was rectified inside three years, and
earnings lumped from 0.7 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal in 1926 to 14, 15 and 15.1 ptc. in the
three following years. These results were
achieved despite prolonged structural altera-
tions to the premises; so at the end of ’29
the board had no difficulty in raising
£lOO,OOO of 8 p.c. second pref. money to
ease the strain on finances.
Then slump lightened turnover, and
caused trouble with stocks and debtors’
balances. Still, the co. pulled through with
enough to pay the pref. divs. in 1931, and
there was an encouraging spring of £18,925
in gross earnings (£214,408) for the 12
months covered by the latest accounts. Exes.
(£186,177) took £BOl3 of the increase, leav-
ing a net gain of £10,912. After handing
the prefs. their statutorily reduced divs..
there was enough to show T 6.1 p.c. on ord.
capital (£225,000), and shareholders, who
had been passed by in 1931, were handed
6 p.c., making the average 3.4 p.c. over the
last decade.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 16.)


:»!!*!{[{
Mo
i
m
nmn:
Vjp
m
ll* v\
x- >W; ,
111
n
3P
»'■ 1
Co
US
hfftOH
CATERPILLAR
TRACTION
TREAD
•
ARMOURED
WALL
Standard High-Grade
MOTOR TYRE
HOW to minimise that main cause
of tyre destruction—the terrific
heat generated by road friction--is a
problem at last mastered in the new
design Barnet Glass Tyre. . . . Heat is
reduced by a new scientific balance be*
tween the stretch of rubber and cords
... . Heat is dissipated by the famblade
action of the buttressed side walls.
These stout buttresses also provide an
effective armour for the casing, pro-
tecting it against curb cutting and
abrasion and preventing distortion
. . . . The new Caterpillar Traction
Tread maintains positive road grip
at all angles, ensures direct driving
without slip and perfect control when
accelerating or braking. . « ♦ • •
Barnel Glass
Tyres
%
* for 6n durance
——CP


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
$
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coluson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
LARGE CAPITAL AVAILABLE.—I have London
Capital available for Proved Gold Properties, also
Capital to develop. Inspection made in any part of
Commonwealth. Reply with some details to
“LONDON,” c/o Mercantile Exchange, 380 Collins-
street, Melbourne, Cl. — Advt.
* * * *
MINES AND FIELDS EXAMINED. Reports
furnished. Write to William Bradford, late special
Examiner of Mines for Victorian Government.
Address William Bradford, Ballarat East. — Advt.
Wanted to buy Battery Tailings. Apply
Lovely, Hillgrove Gold Recovery Works,
N.S.W. — Advt.
W. H. C.
Hillgrove,
“THE “WILD CAT’ MONTHLY"
108 NOVEMBER NEXT SATURDAY
Is 4 p.c. Cheap Money?
Position of Banks.
Interest Rates and Share Prices.
Which Section Has Suffered
Most?
Trading Results Compared'.
These and many other questions of
vital interest to investors will be
discussed in the November issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
5*3
as
mil
AMICUS CERTUS IN RE INCERTA
“A sure friend in uncertain times”
M ortgages
THE Society is prepared to consider applications for
Mortgages on First-class Freehold Properties and
for Loans to Local Governing Bodies at Lowest
Current Interest Rates.
While writing of Mortgages, it might be pointed out that
every Mortgagor should have a Life Policy in the A.M.P.
to protect his family and estate; a Policy that will serve
as a Sinking Fund to wipe out the Mortgage at a certain
date, or at death should that occur first.
Here are two little “histories” that point this moral:—
(1) A.B. borrowed £lOOO to build a home, and took
out an A.M.P. Whole-life Policy for a like amount at a
half-yearly premium of £l4/1/8. He died 10 years
later, when he had paid only £2Bl/13/4. The mortgage
of £lOOO was wiped out at once and his widow received
£277, the result of added bonuses.
(2) B.C. borrowed £5OO for a similar purpose, and he
took out an A.M.P. Endowment Policy for £5OO, pay-
able in 15 years or at previous death. The half-yearly
premium was £l6/15/-. He had the good fortune to
live to the end of the term, when the £5OO was available
to pay off his mortgage, and there was £149 in accumu-
lated bonuses that he drew in cash.
Thus do men win peace of mind and security.
Full information regarding mortgages and/or the
numerous A.M.P. plans of assurance may be had from
any of the Society’s offices or representatives.
Australian Mutual Provident
Society
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
F. F. McBRYDE, C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Assistant General Manager. Actuary.
Branch Offices in Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
A-M-P
Ossets:£B6,6oo,ooo.
Gives best possible contract.
Premises, with frontages to the busiest
parts of Pitt and George streets, now domi-
nate balance-sheet figures:—•
1923. 1929. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £325,"b00 £325,000 £425,000 £425,000
Liabilities .. 195,693 325,646 273,913 229,511
Premises, plant,
etc. .. 192,127 375,318 405,858 406,015
Stocks .. 223,723 200,291 175,683 147,926
Book debts .. 36,788 47,894 49,956 51,148
Cash, etc, .. 18,573 61,807 91,410 81,731
Thus last year’s surplus earnings, together
with a reduction of £27,757 in the book
value of stocks (now lower than at any
time during the last decade) and of £9679 in
cash, etc., enabled £44,402 to be clipped off
the outside debt. Exactly how much of this
is fixed is not disclosed in the sheet. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£51,294) was £Bl5B.
Market interest is confined to the prefs.
. —there are 100,000 first 9 per cents., and
a like number of second 8 per cents., rank-
ing in the order stated. Allowing for the
statutory cut, the firsts at 255. 6d. and the
seconds at 21s. 6d. return 5.4 p.c. and 5.8
p.c. respectively. The net tangible cover
is £4 9s. lid. firsts, £3 9s. lid. seconds.
B. H. South ceased hauling ore through
No. 1 shaft at the end of September. Since
1909, when first used, over 6,000,000 tons
of suphides passed up this shaft. The new
No. 7, which has been taking over the load
since December, 1931, now produces 7500
tons per week. It is of the double-purpose
type, one winder being used for two double-
deck cages, holding 36 men, and the other
for two 51-ton skips. The skip attendant
starts the* engine with a push button;
acceleration to 1750 ft. per minute and stop-
ping and tipping the skip are all performed
by the electrical controls in the winder
house. In conjunction with the new crushing
and treatment plant, it all means a vigorous
assault upon costs.
* * * *
New Guinea Goldfields’ alluvial production
for September was 30200 z. of bullion, valued
at £SOOO in Australian currency. The mill
is working satisfactorily, the grade of the
ore is higher than was anticipated, and the
gold is responding readily to cyaniding. It
is expected that difficulty in getting proper
distribution when charging the vats will soon
be overcome, and that the mill will be run-
ning to capacity.
* * * *
If boring tests are satisfactory, Alluvial
Gold proposes to form a co. to work Bulolo
Gold Deposits’ leases, New Guinea. The
capital spoken of is a million pounds. The
Deposits Go. is to receive 20 per cent, of
the amount issued, and has the right to a
like proportion of further issues.
* * * *
For the year ended April 30, 1932, New
Misima Gold Mines, Papua, treated 14,040
tons for a yield of 71350 z. bullion, valued
at £24,295, including exchange. Working
costs were low at 16s. 3d. per ton. The
total profit was £13,670. Ore reserves stand
at 62,750 tons, worth 30s. per ton, an in-
crease of 7750 tons for the year. The co.
has a paid capital of £14,000, and distri-
butes Is. per share monthly. Eleven whites
and 180 native boys are employed.
* * *
Guadalcanal, Ltd., with a capital of
£30,000 in ss. shares, has been incorporated
in Fiji. The vendors, who are to receive
one-third of the issued capital in fully-paids,
are residents of the Solomon Islands, where
the property is. It consists of some 14,000
acres of auriferous areas. A. Penman, of
Alluvial Gold and Alluvial Tin, is satisfied
that it has possibilities.
* * # $
Kingston Gold Mines, Ltd., has been
formed to work the old property at Kingston,
a few miles out of Brisbane. Nominal
capital is £70,000 in Is. shares, of which
300,000 paids go to the vendor, 45,000 paids
to the owners of the freehold, and 900,000
are offered. The other 155,000 are in pickle.
The property was first opened up about 40
years ago. It is a large low-grade show
worked by open cut. Since A. Kussman re-
opened it some months ago, he has equipped
it with a battery, Wilfley tables and acces-
sory plant. About 2000 tons, averaging
7dwt., has been treated during the last few
months. The gold is worth £2 10s. per
ounce. It is claimed that there is a good
deal of payable alluvial, too, on the property.
The Queensland Government has intro-
duced a new prospecting scheme. Subject
to the approval of the District Warden, a
leader is appointed, who selects a small
party. Pay at prospecting rates is granted,
and equipment is provided. The scheme is
in operation between the Palmer River and
Stockyard Greek, with base camps on the
Mitchell. Several parties of three men each
are out.
* * * 41
A new find is reported from Multy sta-
tion, about 10 miles north of Cracow (Q.),
and pegging has begun. At Hawkwood, 55
miles south-east of Cracow, a Brisbane syn-
dicate has purchased three of the best claims
on the field, the Narayan, Goldcrest and
Hope of Hawkwood. At the Narayan, about
11 miles from Hawkwood Post Office, a
shaft has been sunk 50ft., and a drive has
been made 35ft. along a 4ft. lode. An offi-
cial bulk sample recently shot out of the
face of the lode assayed 9oz. sdwt. of gold
to the ton. This is the only show being de-
veloped on the field, where upwards of 100
claims have been pegged. There is not the
scarcity of water there is at Cracow. At
Brovinia, about 40 miles south of Mundub-
bera, upwards of 40 prospectors are at
work, and several small crushings averaging
over 2oz. to the ton have been taken out.
The old May Queen, a profitable producer
40 years ago, is also being further developed.
At Titi, 22 miles west of Mundubbera, a
five-head battery is being erected to treat
ore from a promising gold-copper show. The
old British Empire mine, outside Gayndah,
is also receiving attention.
Since the Palmer River Gold Co.’s dredge
(N.Q.) started upstream values have im-
proved, 16oz. 6dwt. being obtained from 5600
c.y. For the whole of September 32,300 c.y.
yielded 550 z. lldwt,, valued at £3BB, making
the return £l5OO over the last four months.
Plans to reopen the Ajax South, at Dayles-
ford (Vic.), are iu preparation, and London
capital is being sought to revive other
members of the Ajax group. The Ajax itself
has produced £500,000 worth of gold in its
00 years of life. Last time it was opened
up the shares soared from 6d. to £S in a
few months, while the paper of two pups
(Central and North) went to £5 and £3
respectively. At Trentham, not far away,
the old Yankee has been unwatered and
fitted out with a new suit, whiie further
south the Sultan and other Blackwood shows
are preparing for a new era, also with the
assistance of John Bull and Co. The Sultan
yielded about 2J tons of gold down to 400 ft.
❖ *
Rose, Thistle and Shamrock, Harrietville
(Vie.), obtained 5990 z. gold from 1425 tons
for the half-year ended July 31, and showed
a loss of £ll6. The future of the mine
depends upon the success obtained in driving
the level at 1380 ft. and in shaft-sinking.
Stone assaying over loz. has lately been met
above the 800 ft. level, and an intermediate
level is to be driven 100 ft. below to test the
downward continuation.
❖ ❖ ijc
Tingha Tin, which in July last talked of
liquidation if a suitable gold property was
not obtained inside twelve months, has
acquired the Waverly at Woods Point
(Vic.).
* * * *
“Tanami”: At The Granites, Centralia,
the reefs are very small, and, with few
exceptions, hard and hungry. Rich dabs
may be obtained in proximity to the granite,
which comes to the surface in places, but in
my opinion nothing big or lasting is likely to
be discovered. My mate and I gave the place
a good go a few years back.
* * * *
The recent rise in Wilunas is due mainly
to increased gold extraction, more promis-
ing developments in the mine, Yankee and
Continental buying and the satisfactory gold
bounty arrangement, which stabilises the
price of the metal at a comparatively high
figure for the next eight yeai*s.
* * * *
Paringas have appreciated a little lately.
The co.’s Kalgoorlie show is well situated at
the north end of the Golden Mile, but funds
are low. Efforts are being made to raise
more in London to do some diamond drilling.
* * 4=
As a sop to the ords. in Boulder Per-
severance, the board intended to issue the
balance (31,050) of the 10 p.c. 10-year
profit-sharing £1 notes in September, but the
British Government’s embargo on new issues
has thus far stood in the way. A suggestion
to offer existing noteholders shares in
exchange is not likely to come to anything.
* * * *
Great Boulder is trying to develop enough
ore to justify the erection of a new 12,000-
ton flotation plant. Ruwolts have the
design in hand. The co. has paid over
£6.000,000 in divs. At the moment tributors
provide most of the profits.
* # * *
Tongkah Compound is searching for gold
at Grossmont, near Coolgardie (W.A.), and
stories of good values in bores and of big
bodies of payable stuff are being broadcast.
While Grossmont’s performances to date as a
gold producer have been nothing to rave
about, it has possibilities.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Any advantages in changing a Vic-
torian grazing property , worth about £15,000.
into a proprietary limited co.? (2) Would
it reduce Federal Land Tax , Probate and
other taxes, and what altered arrangements
would be necessary in managing the pro-
perty ? —2258.
(1) Speaking generally, the greatest
advantage in working a property as a pro-
prietary limited co. is to secure a limitation
of liability and continuing ownership in the
event of the death of the present proprietor.
(2) A lot of information would be required
before a satisfactory answer could be given
to this question. Suggest that you communi-
cate with a firm of accountants.
(1) What percentage . of wolfram in ore
would be payable? (2) Uses of the metal?
(3) Market value? (4) Likely buyers?—-
2668.
(1) Depends upon many things, including
location of deposit, presence of other minerals
in the ore, water supply, etc., all of which
affect the cost of treatment and transport.
(2) Chiefly as an alloy in the manufacture
of tungsten steel tools, etc., and for tung-
sten electric lamp filaments. (3) About
£37 per ton. London, for 65 p.c. ore. Stone
containing less than 60 p.c. tungstic acid
is difficult to sell at all. (4) O. T. Lem-
priere and Co., Collins House, 360 Collins-
street, Melbourne.
Capacity of the Beach Sands Co.’s plant?
Production, etc.? —2B76.
The co.’s plant, at Tugun Creek on the
south coast of Queensland, is capable of
treating over 200 tons of black sands daily.
At present it is producing 10 tons of zircon
concentrates per week. These are being
marketed in Germany. Zircon is being used
in increasing quantities as a high-grade
refractory, and in alloy steels.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.P.H.: Yes... .N.8.P.: (1) Wiluna, Lake View,
Mt. Coolon, Great Boulder Prop., Mt. Morgan, Bulolo
and New Misima are amongst the most promising.
(2) No. (3) With exchange as it is, yes; but
the probable effects of a drop in the rate should not
be overlooked R.F.8.: (1) A lot more work needs
to be done before any reliable opinion can be formed
about this field. (2) Cannot say. (3) Several cos.
are installing plant. Write to W. R. Stringer,
Secretary, Golden Plateau, 422 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne; T. A. Billerwell, Secretary, Golden Mile
(Cracow), 115 Pitt-street, Sydney; E. R. Tonkin,
Secretary, Dawn of Cracow, Bank of Australasia
Chambers, Queen-street, Brisbane... .A.J.8.: It is a
speculative investment; if you cannot afford to
lose, leave it alone H.C.: See “‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,” November, 1931. The plant, one of the
most modefn of its kind, is due to start up within
the next few weeks F.A.C.: There is not much
on which to pick and choose between them; in
each case the protection for policyholders is equal
to the amount usually considered adequate J. J.G.:
See “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” November, 1931
2.P.Q.: Will review both in next issue of Tin;
Bulletin. .. .H.E.M.: X.Z. Perpetual Forests is doing
all it has legally undertaken to do for its bond-
holders, and promises to do more besides... .J.L.S.:
Companies: Formation, Management and Winding-up,
by Sidey. The Australian Company Director, by
Keith R. Yorston. Both can be obtained from Law-
Book Co. of Australasia, 425 Chancery Lane, Mel-
bourne.


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
The Name of Labor
Dear Bulletin, —The Australian Council
of Trades Unions lately held a corroboree
at Melbourne Trades Hall with the object
of organising and regulating the affairs of
the Commonwealth. Judging by accounts
of the proceedings, there does not seem to
be a man in the crowd fit to organise a dog-
fight. Yet this crowd of political penshers
has the damned impudence to pretend to
control what it calls “the Australian Labor
Movement.” Is it not about time this mob,
or, for the matter of that, any other mob,
should be prevented by law from using the
word “Labor” as a political label? The
word automatically enrols thousands of igno-
rant, class-biassed voters, and at the same
time stigmatises as traitors thousands of
workers with hand and brain to whom the
policy of the so-called Labor party does
not appeal. This is a labor Commonwealth,
and no section of _ its people has any just
claim to the exclusive use of a word descrip-
tive of the economic status of the bulk of
its population.—Yours etc., Unionist of 40
Years (Vic.).
Crime and Punishment
Dear B.,—Not so long ago the insane and
feeble-minded were whipped and chained
and eked out their lives in foul “madhouses”
—that was the recognised treatment, as
contemporary records show. Fortunately,
owing to the struggle of a few humane
people, these conditions have been radically
changed. Yet such methods still prevail,
though in a more genteel fashion, and _ the
band of scientists who realise the futility
of the present system of punishment are
derided as idealists. Here is an actual case.
A youth found guilty of interfering with
little girls was sentenced to three years
imprisonment. Not long after his release
he was arrested again for a similar offence
with boys (evidently his sojourn in prison
had converted his tastes to homosexual prac-
tices), and this time was awarded five years.
On his release the poor wretch repeated his
offence, and was returned to gaol for ten
years. Presumably he will spend the rest
of his life in this manner. Nothing has been
done to help this unfortunate, though every
thinking person must realise that he is men-
tally unstable where sex is concerned, and
that the punishments inflicted have not acted
as deterrents. Apart from the wrong turn-
ing that his sexual life has taken, he is a
person of high intelligence and normally a
useful economic unit of society. I have
collected data concerning his early life which
would quite easily explain liis condition:
even now psycho-therapeutic treatment would
in all probability render him normal. Such
treatment, however, is not provided by the
authorities for criminals, and most people
would regard it as pampering. Yet should
this man become ill of a physical disease,
every effort will be made to restore him to
health. His mental illness or well-being is
of no concern.
We have our “health weeks,and empha-
sise the necessity of mental hygiene. Mean-
while the Children’s Courts are carrying on
their almost impossible task of attempting
to reform youngsters who have made a first
essay in criminality. Psychological assist-
ance is what these youngsters need, as _ ex-
periments in other countries have plainly
shown, and there is no one to give it. Can
it be wondered that most of our habitual
criminals make their debut in the Children’s
Court? —Yours, Jayde.
Small Pegs in Large Holes
Dear Bulletin, —Inheritance and influ-
ence put many a well-connected dud into a
position of authority in the days that were
flush; and while values and profits kept
going up and up, nobody, except perhaps
the chap who found the bluffer pushed up
over his head, could establish much definite
ground for complaint. In Australia, as well
as in the U.S.A. and other parts of the
world, people of quite small real capabili-
ties became, through luck or by bluff, “mag-
nates” overnight. But with the depression
has come what the Yanks call a “showdown”
for figurehead administrators, whether they
be business men or politicians. Particularly
in business circles has it been brought home
to the public—very sadly to the investing-
public—that the management of many con-
cerns, some of them very large, has been
much over-rated.
Small pegs will not successfully fill large
holes, and if, in the same machine, a large
peg is being forced into a small hole, the
workings of the machine are not likely to
be very harmonious. It behoves share-
holders, when their opportunity comes round
periodically, to use a little more care in
selecting these pegs, and to be influenced
by nothing but men’s ability to do the parti-
cular job for which they are paid. —Yours,
Auditor.
Pensions and Economies
Dear Bulletin, —On your figures there
must be further economies, but I would
remind those who have to make them that
old-age pensioners command 200,000 votes
of their own, and another 200,000 or 300,000
votes of their friends and relations. If
something has to be saved I would suggest
cutting out free schooling, free travelling
to and from school and payment of Members
of Parliament in Federal and State. These
together cost much more than the pensions.
—Yours faithfully, T. Y. Martin.
A Bureau de Votes
Dear B., —Carelessly reading a slightly
misprinted sentence in The B. (14/9/'32).
I met a momentary puzzle. The words ran:
“The party’s Publicity Bureau de votes.”
For a second or two I failed to realise that
“de votes” was merely a decapitated verb;
but it was a printer’s inspiration. Imagine
it organised and efficient! What a god-
send t 0 the wavering politician this (as yet
inchoate) Bureau de Votes! I picture the
Minister of any Department in any Govern-
ment, say the one charged with* the pro-
posal to revise and reduce State pensions.
He sits before a sheaf of reports, resolu-
tions, protests, etc., from the Progress Com-
mittee of Pickanshovel, the Communist
Brotherhood of Dolesville, the Synod of the
Soft-boiled Anglicans, the Metholean Com-
bine and the Primitive Romans, that fairly
make his heart bleed. Then he grabs a pen
and endorses the docket: “Referred to the
Bureau de V. to inquire and report: 1. How
many normal party votes there are in Pick-
anshovel ? 2. How many of these are likely
to change over if the Government adheres to
its announced policy? 3. How many are
likely to accept a ‘last-minute’ compromise,
already up the official sleeve, as a noble and
sympathetic concession to etc., etc.? 4.
Formulate a temporising reply for use mean-
while.” Thus we have Democratic Govern-
ment made Easy, or Patriotism without
Tears. Let the Bureau de Votes come if
it isn’t working already sub rosa. I sus-
pect that all that is needed is the official
creation of a Department with the custom-
ary President, Registrar, clerks, typists and
messengers, all on salaries properly fixed
and protected by another set of Presidents,
Registrars and corresponding outfit. Or
perhaps it will take shape as a travelling
political Commission with Mr. , K.C.,
“to assist the Commission” and the usual
expensive entourage.—Yours, Bill O'C.
(S.A.).
Victoria, the State that Carries the Baby
Dear Bulletin,, —Gain in State popula-
tions under Federation has been this:
N. S. Wales 1,153,130
Victoria .. .. .. 705,081
Queensland .. .. . . 469,864
South Australia . . . . 251,640
Westralia .. .. . . 233,451
Tasmania . . . . . . 50,490
The frequent yarn about the decline of Vic-
toria’s population because its. membership
in the Federal Lower House has declined
is a crazy invention of people who are igno-
rant of arithmetic, and it is based on the
old jealousy of the alleged Freetraders of
the Ma State of their more enterprising
neighbor. The State affairs of the Common-
wealth are strangely mixed. Tasmania,
South Australia and Westralia have set up
as permanent pensioners on their neighbors.
The brotherhood is quite indiscriminate. It
includes the largest State and the smallest
State; the one with the biggest income per
head and the one with the smallest income;
the one with the biggest debt and the one
with almost the smallest debt; also the most
arrpgant State and the most deferential
State. Westralia and South Australia, in
addition to their cash aids, have been sup-
plied with 1000 miles of railway. South
Australia has been relieved of the Northern
Territory and its debts and railways.
Queensland has had the benefit of the sugar
monopoly. N. S. Wales has got whatever
profit was to be made by defaulting and
leaving its neighbors to meet its interest
bills; also it has secured the Federal capi-
tal. Victoria is the only State which has
neither asked nor prigged anything.—Yours,
James Edmond.
Shearers’ Wages
s
Dear Bulletin. To those who contem-
plate sheep-shearing as a profession I offer
my experiences this year. Commenced
shearing at Eulolo (Q.) in February. Shed
run, three weeks. By shearing 1200 sheep
at 365. per hundred I earned £2l 12s. ~ *Ex-
penses: Working clothes 18s. lid., gloves
4s. 10d., 8 combs £2 3s. 4d., 18 cutters 18s.,
mess account £5 145., fare from shed £1;
total £lO 19s. This subtracted from £2l 12s.
leaves a balance of £lO 13s. Next start,
Boobera (Q.), first week in August; run,
four weeks. Shearing 2300 sheep at 365.
per 100 = £4l 19s. 6d., including comb and
cutter allowance 11s. 6d. Expenses: 10
combs £2 14s. 2d., 24 cutters £1 45.. work-
ing clothes 18s. lid., gloves 4s. 10d., mess
account £6, relief tax £2 25., insurance 25..
fare 65.; total £l3 11s. lid. Balance £2B
7s. 7d. Commenced shearing Hazefield first
week September; shed run, four weeks,
Shearing 1856 at 365. per 100 = £33 17s. 6d.,
including 9s. 6d. comb and cutter allowance,
Expenses: Mess account. £5 6s. 7d., _unem-
ployed insurance 25., relief tax £1 155., 18
cutters 18s., 8 combs (ss. 6d. each) £2 Bs..
gloves Is. Bd., return fare 10s.; total £ll
Is. 3d. Balance £22 16s. sd. Total for three
sheds £6l 17s. Deduct £5 ISs. fares to
and from Brisbane, and the total for the
three sheds, spread over nearly eight months.
is £55 19s. Even if you counted only the
11 weeks of time at the sheds, it is a poor
return, considering the irregularity of the
work and the wasted time.—Yours, Sam
Slocum (Q.).
•
Orchardists and Wages
° •
Dear Bulletin, —“ Bonzo ' (B. 28/9/ 32)
talks of ss. to 9s. a case for oranges and
mandarins; but in Queensland prices
through the main part of this season ranged
between 2s. and ss. a case. In Roekhamp-
ton, usually one of the best markets in the
State for citrus fruit, prices for a long
while never exceeded 55., and as late as
the middle of August prime mandarins and
oran g e s could be bought in any quantity for
3 S . to 4s. a case. This season the highest,
return we got for our oranges was 6s. 6d.—
a few cases only—and for Emperor man-
darins 7s. 6d.—two cases. One of the
largest citrus growers in Central Queensland,
who, when wages were high, employed an
average of six men at a minimum of 10s. a
day, for the last few seasons has not been
able to employ anyone, save one man for
a few weeks at the beginning of each season
for orange picking. There is no room to-day
for even low-paid help in a Citrus orchard. —-
Yours, Joiinno (Q.).
THE WELCOME.
“An Australian Book Publishing Co. has been established in the shelter of ‘The Bulletin?"


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOK COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Hold My Hand”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
King's “Autumn Crocus”
State Movies and Talkie*
♦
Wirths’ Circus is back in its old haunts
at Olympia, Melbourne, but the populace is
only allowed to reach it after filing through
the dance hall of the Green Mill adjacent,
the idea of the management being to kill
one bird with two stones, apparently.
Wirths’ is still Wirths’, though the odorous
menagerie at the entrance gates looks
smaller, some of the animals only making
their appearance in the illustrations in the
booklet—an entertaining publication, by the
way. Mechanisation hasn’t touched the show
proper, except that the human orchestra has
been replaced by Wirths’ Wonderful Pana-
trope. Everything in a circus is wonderful,
and when this Showman wanted to wash
some of the sawdust down his throat he felt
constrained to ask the way to Wirths Won-
derful Watertap. It was behind the baby
rhino’s cage. Philip Wirth, grey-bearded,
leonine, his breast clanking with enough
decorations to supply an A.I.F. company,
opens the proceedings by playing “Two
Little Finches” on his cornet. It is partially
lost in the roaring of the lions, who are offstage
clamoring for the limelight; but no matter.
The Grand Parade of Artists, Clowns, etc.,
follows, and then the Wonderful Perform-
ing Pure White Polar Bears are presented
by Capt. Zaph. They are only pure and
white by a polite fiction of the programme.
Miss Silverlocks dances amongst them, and
is not eaten. Wirths’ Wonderful Performing
Lions are presented by Capt. Flyger. One
of them jumps through a flaming hoop with
the alacrity of a State Treasurer negotiating
a deficit. Meantime the two Santeys have
climbed to the roof and are now being whirled
round and round on an arrangement like a
ship’s propeller. It is a relief to the neck
to transfer attention to two clowns, who
are pulling banknotes out of their pockets
and iaying them on the sawdust in connec-
tion with a wager about whether the human
hand has 10 or 11 fingers. The stake rises
to an incredible figure, and then Dummy
arrives and makes off with the bank and
the clowns go off to file their schedule. The
Wonderful Elephants now roll in like mol -
ing mountains, and Doris Wirth, a mere
slip of a girl, makes them do things that
would have astonished a caveman. Kaz-
berg’s Wonderful Troupe of Russian .Cos-
sacks performs amazing feats of horseman-
ship, and equally amazing feats of elocution.
One of them walks all over a galloping stal-
lion with a naked sword in his mouth and
as much nonchalance as if he were walking
the corridors of a city building looking for
a stockbroker. Les Quatre Hirondelles (in
English, the four Wirth sisters) are hoisted
to the roof and whirl round in the air sup-
ported by nothing but their wonderful neck
muscles. Down below the clowns have recov-
ered from the shock of their recent mone-
tary misadventure, and are plastering each
other with custard pies. The Seven Won-
derful Nelsons, direct from the R.M.S. Mon-
golia, leap into the ring and proceed to set
an astoundingly high standard in acrobatics.
While the clowns are backing themselves
to answer each other’s conundrums, the way
is being prepared for Doris Wirth to pre-
sent her Wonderful Golden Statue Horse
Queenie in artistic poses. All the items
hitherto catalogued, however, pale into insig-
nificance when Wonderful Alloys Peters, the
Bravest Man in the World, of which he is
apparently weary, climbs up to the ceiling,
puts a hangman’s noose round his neck, and
by flinging himself 40 feet into space makes
a determined attempt to commit suicide. He
is happily unsuccessful.
* * #
Sydney’s recently-formed Musical Asso-
ciation Ohoii’, 80 strong, made its debut at
the Con. Hall under Lindley Evans’s baton.
Save for a slight weakness in the tenor
section—and it usually takes all the re-
sources of a bigger nation than Aus-
tralia to mobilise a choir in which the tenors
aren’t a weak link —the new organisation
is -frell balanced, and its voices are fresh and
clear. It showed intelligence and musi-
cianship in a rendering of “Hiawatha’s
Wedding Feast,” a work full of pit-
falls round which Mr. Evans steered his
team very cleverly. Equally good perform-
ances were given of Elgar’s “Challenge of
Thor,” Fletcher’s “Song of the Grey Seas”
and Bairstow’s “Dawn of Song,” the last
unaccompanied. The National Broadcasting
Symphony Orchestra, in addition to provid-
ing an effective background for the accom-
panied choral items, gave an impi’essive pei’-
formance of MacDowell’s second piano con-
certo, the soloist being Bessie Coleman.
* * *
A fine exponent of the sadly-neglected
art of chamber music is the Sydney Quar-
tet, consisting of George White, Robert
Miller, William Krasnick and Cedric Ash-
ton. In the Sydney Corn’s small hall they
played Ravel’s Quartet in F Major, musi-
cally not of much worth save for its pretty
opening, but a searching test of technique,
and registered a practically flawless per-
formance. A Handel passaeaglia for violin
and viola was charmingly interpreted by
Miller and Krasnick. In the Schubert
Quintet in O Major the performers were
joined by Rosamund C'ornford, who took
second ’cello, and the irresistible gaiety of
the composition earned a storm of applause.
* ¥ *
With a choir of well over 100 under-
graduates Sydney Uni. Musical Society gave
its second concert of the year in the Great
Hall last week. The freshness of the voices
was a welcome feature, and conductor
Faunce Allman controlled the singers very
deftly. In the madrigals there was just the
right amount of refinement and restraint.
The soloists were all youngsters. Dagmar
Roberts at the piano. Zena Moller as song-
ster, and George White, the violinist, are in
the end of their ’teens or just over. There
is a wealth of young talent in Sydney at
present.
Musicians who happened to be present at
Sydney Con. Hall on Saturday night were
amazed to hear a young girl with a voice
capable of singing notes an octave higher
than the usual soprano range. It was Zena
Moller, a young graduate in science who has
suddenly decided to become a singer. The
voice is clear and sweet if not over-large, «nd
its range offers possibilities.
* * *
Another event in one of the most musical
weeks Sydney has had for a long while was
a recital by ’cellist Bryce Carter. The high
light was a performance of Schubert’s very
long but very interesting B Flat Trio, in
which Edith Kilminster was at the piano
and Dagmar Thomson provided the leading
voice with her violin. It was a very worthy
rendition.
* * *
“Hello Everybody,” presented by Jack
Russell and co. at the New Tivoli, Sydney, is
f.a.q. fun. Russell figures as a millionaire
with one leg in the grave but a cheery out-
look on life. His daughter (Evelyn Du
Fresne) is wooed by a crusty major (Robert
Roberts) and a good-looking secretary (Len
Rich). Members of the cast break into song
frequently. The best voice in the collection
belongs to Angela Parselles, who is entrusted
with only one song. Interspersed through
the story are numbers by the big Four ; Dolly
Donoghuc and Alex. Carr, dancers; Lee and
Barry, also dancers; Patillo and Presco,
acrobatic clowns; and the Harris Sisters,
contortionists. Ballet and orchestra sub-
stantially help the show.
C. L. Cunnington’s one-act play “The
Cudgewa Outlaw,” first-prize winner in the
Fellowship of Writers’ competition, was pro-
duced by the Australian Theatre Society at
Sydney’s Tom Thumb Theatre. The dialogue
moves briskly and the characterisation is
well done. The piece was capably acted by
Frank Hidden, Gordon Bowman, Noela
Marienthal, John Ogden and others. Also
on the bill was Dulcie Deamer’s morality
play “In the Heart of a Woman.” showing
the triumph of Pity over Vanity and the
“HOLD MY HAND,” AT HER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
(Top to bottom, left to right): Cyril Ritchard as Eddy Marstone; Leo Franklyn as
Cuthbert, masquerading as a sweet young thing; Madge Elliott as Paula Bond;
Rene Murphy as the secretarial Jane Howard; Dulcie Davenport as Helen
Mil Chester; Cecil Kellaway as Lord Milchester; Frank Leighton as Pop Curry.
awakening which comes with the birth of
“The King of Kings.” It suggests compari-
sons with Mrs. Hynes’s “A Child Is Born,”
which had its first performance earlier in the
week. In the Deamer play the brunt of the
acting fell on Marie Boyers as Intellect and
Reg. Bolton as the Intruder. The show will
be repeated on Saturday.
* v *
New Sydney Repertory Society had
another orgy of Grand Guignols on Satur-
day night. William Rees, in the part of a
broken-down mummer in a playlet from the
Russian, “The Swan Song,” kept sus-
pense alive during every second he was on
the stage. Gilbert Unsworth also scored
heavily as a blind but enormously strong
crook in a grim little Parisian sketch, “The
Underworld.” An attempted hanging and
a double suicide were among its features.
“Unclean,” another French hair-raiser, with
leprosy as its theme, was rather overdone
“The Ghost in the Pantry” and “Coffin Nails”
rounded off an eventful evening.
* # *
Maeterlinck’s miracle play “Sister Beat-
rice,” was staged with modest settings and
played by a well-rehearsed cast at Bryant’s
Playhouse, Sydney, during last week-end.
Lela Forsayth portrayed the Madonna with
quiet and effective dignity. Audrey Nichol-
son invested the part of the runaway devotee
with delicacy, and Otto Bohrsmann was
an understanding Prince Belliton—the
reason for Sister Beatrice’s disappearance
from the convent. George Bryant as the
priest and Frances Ellis as the abbess also
gave of their best.
* * *
The Players’ Club and the Play Society
combined forces for the production of F.
Sladen-Smith’s “Wonderful Zoo” at St.
James’s Hall, Sydney. An escaped lunatic
talks with a gardener, a policeman, a hussy,
an archbishop and various officials on a
variety of subjects, and comes to the conclu-
sion that he is saner than any of them,
Shaw would have handled the theme effec-
tively, but Mr. Sladen-Smith merely flounders.
Joyce Lambert and Carrie Tennant, who
was the producer, were the pick of the actors,
* * *
Mrs. Alon Hynes’s play “A Child Is
Born,” performed at St. James Hall, takes
as its theme a second coming, the dream of
a street preacher. There is some deft charac-
terisation in the piece, which is well con-
structed. Marjery Jones, Dorothy Whitely,
E. Jackson and L. Hay Simpson were the
best of the actors. F. Appleton produced.
Shadow Shows.
“Murders in the Rue Morgue,” at the
Ilaymarket, is supposed to be based on Poe’s
famous tale of mystery and imagination, but
is nothing like it. The homicidal ape is
owned in the film by one Dr. Mirakle. A
quartette of young Parisians out of “La
Boh&me” come to see and be gibbered at
by the ape, and then the trouble begins. The
hero, a scientist, takes an unconscionable
time to discover by blood-tests what the
audience is aware of already—namely that
the ape is doing the slaying—and then there
is a dreary examination by a French official
of a number of people who claim to know
all about the murders, and don’t. The clos-
ing sequences show the ape careering over
house tops with the heroine, and finally meet-
ing his end in the Seine. Some of the sets
are picturesque and the photography is good,
but stupid anachronisms abound. For
example, a man appears on a bike, though
the period is supposed to be the early forties
of last century, and Ueichanx didn’t invent
his improvement on the velocipede till 1869!
# * #
A large audience came to shudder and
stayed to guffaw at “White Zombie,” which
arrived on Friday at Sydney Capitol. Blurbed
as “more awe-inspiring than ‘Dracula,’ more
imaginative than ‘Frankenstein’,” it turned
out to be less rational than either. Haiti is
the venue. Here, by the art of a sinister-
looking scientist, the local corpses are raised
from their tombs and employed as workers in
sugar mills. They are known as Zombies.
A plantation-owner, who has designs on a
virtuous American girl, gets her poisoned,
buried, raised from the dead and handed over
to him. However, since, like every other
Zombie, she is speechless and powerless to
move unless ordered to do so by her creator,
the villain fails to profit by the transaction.
The girl’s husband and a doctor track the
abductors to their lair and, in a rough and
tumble scrap, put the Zombie-army to flight.
Shrieking vultures, bottomless pits, gibbering
negroes, etc., add to the amusement. Madge
Bellamy, John Harron, Bela Lugosi and
Brandon Hurst are the chief mirthmakers.
“Down to Earth” at the Regent continues
the life story of the wealthy Pike Peterses,
of Oklahoma, who had tfl see Paris. In this
instalment they have returned home to a
mansion built in imitation of the shatto
they had in France. Misfortune overtakes
them, and, after happenings comic and serio-
comic, they are left back in the old cottage
on Cherokee-avenue, chastened but happy.
Pike’s humor tends to become thin; lie is
sometimes a boor and often a bore. Irene
Rich is a graceful foil to the pawky Pike
of Will Rogers.
So gradual and involved is “Lady and
Gent.” that it is hard to extract the theme.
It seems to be something like this: George
Bancroft, professional pug, who hides a
soft heart behind the facade of a thick head,
and Wynne Gibson, night-club queen, who
conceals an equally tender organ behind a
brassy cheek and a viperish manner, team
up to devote their lives to a schoolboy left
on their hands by George’s doublecrossing
manager, James Gleason. George takes to
toil and Wynne t 0 a cottage life far, far
from the bright lights of Broadway—in a
country small town so incredibly obtuse that
in ten years it doesn’t discover that George
and Wynne are living together in sin. Not
for a moment does the story ring true to
life, though the principals, who are a very
sound lot, do their best.
* * *
“Is My Face Red?” at Sydney State might
have been a first-class movie if the producer
had had the courage to end it truthfully.
Ricardo Cortez plays a columnist of the
Walter Winchell type with .brazen cynicism.
He exposes the secrets of his best friends,
and swaggers through life in grinning in-
difference to their fury. The girl he loves,
if he loves anybody, is Helen Twelyetrees.
That doesn’t prevent him from starting an
affair with Jill Esmond, a flirtatious society
lass. He blunders into an engagement with
her, gives her Helen’s ring and informs his
public that “she was ringed yesterdawn by
their correspondent.” As a result he tempo-
rarily alienates the affections of both ladies.
However, he goes on peering through keyholes
and under window-blinds with unabated zest
and effrontery. One of his discoveries is a
murder, and despite horrific warnings from
the Sicilian assassin he writes it up. The
Sicilian arrives unexpectedly with a revol-
ver. It would have been the right finish
in all respects if the columnist had been
exterminated at this stage—he deserved
death if ever journalist did, and his visitor
gets an easy shot at him from a distance of
a few feet —but the director, as above-men-
tioned, was afraid of grieving the flappers.
The last sequence shows Cortez in bed, still
grinning widely, with Helen Twelvetrees
worshipping'on one side and a fellow-jour-
nalist whom he has libelled in the past
handing him a tribute of flowers. Zazu Pitts
and Robert Armstrong are in the cast, and
the acting of all concerned is excellent.
In “Peach o’ Reno” Wheeler and Woolsey
are divorce lawyers with an ornate motor-
’bus which bears the name of the firm meet-
ing the Reno trains, and an office in which
clients state their grievances by day and
revel by night, the place being so built that
it can be turned into a speakeasy at a
moment’s notice. As Eclipse was to racing
so are W. and W. to low-brow art; for irre-
levance. imbecility and boisterous vulgarity,
they stand alone. Few of their jokes are under
25, and some are centenarians, yet they get
laughs with them all. The one about the
man who was “good as husbands go and as
liusbauds go lie went” produced yells of joy
on Saturday; and so did “Do you drink?
That’s my business. Any other business?”
Like all their filrfis “Peach o’ Reno” shows
indications of having cost a mint of money,
and the action is breathlessly fast.
Poverty Point
“Garrick”: Harrison Owen, in denying
his authorship of the play “Bush Fire” (B.
31/8/’32), goes too far when he implies that
no such play has been produced in London
in the last dozen years. Harry Tighe, who
wrote “Bush Fire,” a four-act drama with
but three characters, had it produced at the
Fortune Theatre in April, 1931. Nancy
Price, Mary Hinton (Mrs. Pitt-Rivers) and
Charles Carson comprised the cast. Many
Australians in London witnessed the pro-
duction.
“H.M.”: The last survivor of the first
performance of “Pinafore” in Australia -was
Marie St. Clair (Mrs. Lloyd), who died in
London recently. She was the Buttercup
of the 1879 production, in which J. C. Wil-
liamson was Sir Joseph Porter and Maggie
Moore, Josephine. The programme included
“a display of cutlass drill by sailors from
the H.M.S. Wolverine.” Marie St. Clair
was at that time an oratorio soloist, and
was induced to play Buttercup because there
was no one else available. She sang in the
Christmas 1885 rendering of the “Mes-
siah” at the Sydney Town Hall, in which
Madame Melba, merely Mrs. Armstrong in
those days, was the soprano soloist.
“Lond.”: The easy game of making a
modern play out of each “Decameron” story,
for five centuries confined to the study, goes
on merrily. In “Pleasure Cruise,” at
the Apollo, the charming heroine gives
a 2 a.m. appointment in her cabin to a
casual shipboard acquaintance. When next
morning he apologises for non-attendance
(having been fastened in his own cabin all
night), she does some hard thinking; for a
visitor she had all right, and her cigarette-
case has been taken as a souvenir. The
audience knows all the time that it was
her husband, who hud followed her disguised
as a steward; and the adultery-that-wasn’t
is accepted by all parties in the best Boccac-
cio spirit.
“Pangloss”: Paris has shown what can
be done in the way of realism in the staging
of “Aida.” It was proposed to aid unem-
ployed musicians with a performance of
Verdi’s work at Colombes Stadium. To make
the event a popular success the animals from
the Vincennes Zoo, or as many of them as
could be expected to refrain from eating one
another, were marched on in the scene
where Rhadames returns in triumph to the
court of Pharoah, while press photographers
scrambled about amongst the singers taking
records of the proceedings. Still, the Firm
can claim that there was an animal element
in its recent Melbourne production of
the same opera. In the death scene between
Aida and Amneris in the vault of the temple
of Vulcan on the opening night the famous
Theatre Royal cat made an unauthorised
appearance.
“Cauboy”: It shows how modei'n play-
goers have been conditioned to the form of
high-powered, quick-firing entertainment pro-
vided by the talkies that it took several
weeks for Melbourne to accept “Autumn
Crocus” on its artistic merits. On the first
night the cast was stunned by its reception.
The crowd grew restless when Theo Shall
was building up a situation by quiet and
thoughtful touches, and it giggled in all the
wrong places. It couldn’t get over its amaze-
ment that the Firm had not used Dorothy
Peters, the leading lady, as a hanger for
inappropriately expensive dresses. Added to
this was a suspicion of anti-German feeling
in some parts of the house against the
leading man. The last-named sentiment was
curious in view of the fact that the screen
is cluttered with actors of ex-enemy nation-
ality, against whom the cinema addicts show
no resentment, though that is possibly
because shadow actors are not regarded as
ro;al human beings. Still, it says something
for the adaptability of audiences that
“Autumn Crocus” eventually became a best-
seller, though the management has mhde
some concessions to popular taste by reliev-
ing the tension in some passages.


■m
mm.
m
m®
wm
mm
mm
m
■m
m
mm
vm
ms
mm.
m Sggg
asga
■M ”
m
wmmm
■ K
I
NNMMNMNI
I 11111
*
m
iiiiiiiip*
ss?sw»
mil
iiii
m§
Higp
m®.
m i
mm
m
tm.
mmm
m m
; 8® ;
S vv
mm®
i m
wm
sss
IMS
f 8 KSBS
1 v' ,
m
WM
%Bm§%
.. 1 a?
1 11
8368
;;yv
. 1 .
ne morning over
five years aqo>
v/,
A
t&a
&
kkst-
*
111
mm
mm iwi
Cismifß * sorn.K*; s?
fIOtRAL DISnUfJ^SPiTL
KlhOis (U<t • A
ON,0 N , first thoughts there may seem to be but a
slender connection between Australia’s barley
crop of five or six years ago and the Old Court
Whisky you buy to-day.
But the connection is not slender; nor is it
unimportant.
Federal Distilleries have for many years been
prominent buyers of Australia’s prime barley.
Thus comes the first step in this great industry’s
material support of the Nation’s primary produc-
tion. And ever this industry is buying in advance.
The Australian barley crop of five or six years
ago is the basis of the Old Court Whisky you order
to-day,just as this year’s barley will reach you in the
form of Old Court Whisky five or six years hence.
For, to continue as the Nation’s Favourite, Old
Court Whisky must come to you as a mellow spirit,
rich with the smoothness, flavour and beneficial
properties of full maturity.
ffDUlt
iUhislut
THE WOFLLD'S PUR.EST^^
AND THE NATION'S FAVOURITE.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL -------- 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DITBCtOTS •
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Plum Razor Guard
A
- >■
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., |in. and |in. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy, 3/- each, post free.
Sfce PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle ....... 12/6 each.'
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided Iree with each razor.)
Sevon-dav sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case-
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—fin. and fin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN. 654 George Street, Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
THE LUCKY LOT.
FATHER O'FLYNN : “Share
it’s a foine family yer
rearin’, Pat.”
PAT: “Begob, Father, if Oi’d
known as much about
married loife whin Oi was
young as Oi do now, Old
have bin a 'priest.”
“C. Coral”: Like a dog led out at the
end of a l'ope to be shot, the old steamer
City of Ilangliow followed the ’plane-carrier
Albatross to Darwin from Thursday Island
a few weeks ago, after serving as a naval
hulk at T.I. for a number of years. At
Darwin she was dismantled and the coal
was taken out of her; after that she was
once again towed to sea and the Albatross
men put three charges of guncotton aboard
her. Three explosions occurred almost simul-
taneously and she sank in about 20 minutes.
The Hangkow was once in the China tea
trade. Her keeper disappeared mysteriously
one night after he had gone aboard at T. 1.,
no trace of him ever being found.
4 * * * *
“R.Iv.R.” : I witnessed a peculiar spectacle
between Southport and Burleigh Heads
(Queensland S. Coast) during one of the
cyclonic winter gales. Before the 70 m.p.h.
breeze the big breakers, their tops being
whipped off. to leeward in spray that drove
like hail, at first ran parallel to the beach.
Then the wind shifted until it was directly
off-shore, and the surf actually began to
break the wrong way. Beginning at the
beach, for about, ten minutes or a quarter
of an hour the breakers ran straight out
until they were lost in deep water.
:J: Hs % ❖
“Pick”: Eagerly snuffling on the scent of
a blue-tongue, my, mate’s mong Puddle slid
with a heap of loose slate over the brink of
High Rock on the N’.S.W. South Coast and
landed on a ledge of that sheer precipice 30
feet below 7 . Eighty feet farther down the
Pacific surged over the reefs. We thought
the poor fellow hadn’t a hope. In response
to his wailing appeals we wasted hours try-
ing with our lines to lasso him under the
shelving cliff. Then we dropped him our
lunch and left with his distracted howls in
bur ears. My mate resolved next day. to
tramp the five miles back with a beef bone
and can of water. I busied myself construct-
ing a rope ladder. But that night tlm tent
flap was suddenly pushed back, and Puddle
waggled in. It remains a mystery how lie
got out of his predicament.
“Wolverfontein”: Melbourne Zoo is
mourning the death of its veteran hyama. In
his native haunts:,,there is - no animal more
despised by those who know 7 him. The
hyaena is the coward, murderer —when the
odds are in his favor—and champion ghoul
of the four-legged kingdom. At the same
time he is feared by the helpless. The
greatest horror of the wounded in the East
African section of the Great War vtas the
sneaking, humpbacked brute. Many a man
overlooked in the search for the wounded in
the thick bush has shot himself when dusk
came on sooner than be submitted to the
hyaena’s tender mercies. Yet this Melbourne
specimen w 7 as a model of all the virtues.
When the man in charge of him took ship
from South Africa there was not much meat
available. lie had the brilliant idea of feed-
ing his carnivorous friend on bananas, and
made a success of the experiment. Per-
haps this converted the deceased from the
.surliest, and most unapproachable. of caged
animals to tlio gentleman he proved to be
during his Yarraville career.
“W.S.”: Rarey’s system of horse-training
is very simple. It consists of tying the near
foreleg of a horse
up with an ordi-
nary stir r u p-
leather and then
pulling up the off
foreleg by means
of a strap round
the fetlock. One
end of a hobble
will serve if you
put a strap or
rope from this
through the .sur-
cingle. T h e
trainer then
stands against
the shoulder of
the horse on the
near side, takes
the strap or rope
in his hand and
pulls. As soon
as the horse feels
his off foreleg-
pulled from un-
der him he natu-
rally rears. The
trainer keeps his
left hand on the
reins to keep the
horse off, and if
necessary to pre-
vent him top-
pling over back-
wards. T h e
horse then comes
do w n to the
ground on liis
knees and rises
off them again,
but he soon finds
his struggles
futile and gives
up. The trainer,
when the horse
has tired, guides
his head away
from him by pull-
ing on the off
fore rein, and
then encourages
him to fall over
on his side by pressure on the withers.
If the horse wants another go. and
springs up he can have it, but if he
lies quiet the trainer unbuckles the strap
round his near foreleg and the hobble strap
round his off fetlock, pats him, and lets
him get up “tamed.”
* * * *
“Strainer”: A milkman driving along a
r ad outside Newcastle heard lamentations
from the bush. Investigating, he found a
man strapped tightly to a fence post by in-
numerable coils of wire. Milko was unable
to release the prisoner
from his. bonds, so
summoned the ambu-
lance. The attend-
ants cut him loose
with some difficulty.
There was no hint of
an Edgar Wallace
mystery about the
happening. The im-
prisoned man had
been straining wirfe
on a fence when the
wire broke ancU the
backlash wrapped him
tightly to the post.
Anyone who has seen
the havoc which a cable or hawser, whether
wire or rope, can cause on board ship when
breaking under excessive strain will con-
sider the wired-up captive fortunate, to
escape with his life.
“Storm”: The brolga has a gullet which
circles to its stomach like a spiral stair-
east 1 . (live one a piece of bread and watch.
A lump appears at the back of the bird’s
neck. Then a slowly-moving bulge in the
neck traces the passage of the food round
and round the neck till it disappears into
the breast. The food moves at a slow, even
pace. Before the first lump has disappeared,
two or three others are following the same
trail, keeping a set distance between each
other like fixed figures on a moving platform.
* ■:= * *
“M.L.C.”: Not only do all freshwater
eels return to the sea to spawn, as “Elver”
remarks (B. 12/10/’32), but all the cels
from European waters, including the Baltic,
English and Mediterranean rivers, travel to
the same spot in the far distant Atlantic
Ocean between the West Indies and Ber-
muda. Strangely enough the breeding-
ground of the American eel also lies in the
same region and the two areas partly overlap.
The young lame, known as IcptoccphaU, are
at first flat, and leaflike in structure and
begin to migrate back to Europe soon after
they are hatched. It takes them about 2i
years. to reach coastal waters, - where they
become elvers and change their shape to
the characteristic serpentine form but, are
still protected by their transparency—m a
glass of water only their colored eyes are
visible. In the following spring they pass
THE BAND OF HOPE.
up the rivers and slowly adopt the habits
and appearance of the adult eel. Some
seven or ten years later another change
occurs when the first and only breeding
season arrives. The fish ceases to feed, the
color becomes white and silvery, the eyes
enlarge: he has changed into what is
known as a silver eel, which was formerly
believed to be a distinct species. _ A mig-
ration, similar to that of the birds, then
occurs; the long journey back to the Atlan-
tic breeding-ground is undertaken. The eel
is unique among fishes on account of the two
transformations through which it passes and
the period it takes to reach maturity. Its
life history remained a mystery until the
last fifty years and all kinds of curious ideas
were put forward, as, for instance, tne fable
that they arose from horse-hairs.
* * * *
“Macti” : A young Torres Strait islander
who had procured his bride’s outfit, in
accordance with native custom, and bought
the wedding-cake, was left at the last min-
ute with these on liis hands, the frizzy-
lieaded damsel having suddenly returned the
engagement-ring arid fancy handkerchiefs
and other gifts wjth the message, “I no
like!” That didn’t upset him in the least,
for he knew his sea was full of fish. With
his friends, he sailed down to another island
and, selected another bride. He explained
to me the necessity 7 for haste in this matter.
“He like tM& —I get wedding-dress, and
cake. That dress, he can’t spoil; but that
cake, well he only keep good six week, and
two week he go finish, so that wedding only
got another four week!”
“Coir” : One can collect more misinforma-
tion from the Sydney afternoon press than
from any other quarter. The limit was
reached in an article which began with a
description of the West African oil palm,
and the benefits it bestows on mankind, and
ended up with a hopeless confusion of this
strictly West African product with the
cocoanut palm, which grows from China to
Peru. The oil palm bears clusters of
small nuts which are boiled down for
their oil. The cocoanut palm carries nuts
as big as a football. To get the oil
the nuts have to be husked, opened and the
fleshy lining extracted and dried as copra,
from which in due course the oil is extracted
by pressure and distillation. Most interest-
ing to me was the statement that “the great,
green triangular hut” of the oil palm is full
of the most refreshing drink, “resembling
ginger beer.” It is a most misleading descrip-
tion of the contents of the green cocoanut.
This fluid is the most insipid drink known
to humanity. With the addition of a “dash”
•—preferably gin—it is another story.
TUB DEAD HEART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They’re somewhere north of Alice Springs,
The Granites, as they’re called;
South-east they lie from Tanami, a far
and frowning setting.
But, howsoever hard the going, they’ll soon
be overhauled;
The roughest track won’t head men back,
where gold awaits the getting.
From Cancer unto Capricorn, the Arctic to
the Line,
There’s treasure hid bare wastes amid
and deserts—Devil doubt it.!
Adventurous spirits only need a token or a
sign
It’s here or there or anywhere—they’ll
soon be roundabout it.
The dead heart of a continent ’twas pictured
in the past,
Grim, frowning, fell, unspeakable, with
nought to draw or wile there.
A risky prophecy—that heart will soon be
beating fast
If aught they strike that’s faintly like
another Golden Mile there.
Past scorching plain, through scowling gorge,
it holds alike, the lure;
Nor mulga checks nor spinifex: the urge,
the <road, the same is.
To open pathless regions up there’s nothing
half As sure,
No recipe or sesame like Auri sacra fames.
It’s somewhere north of Alice Springs; it’s
east of God-knows-where;
It’s west (about) of Furthest Out —a for-
midable setting.
But howsoever hard the way, you’ll see them
flocking there.
No terrors haunt, no dangers daunt, where
gold may wait the getting.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


V
_ l ith new
rind fastener
PRICE-
MjlSXnmßßSna
o “i Queen St. Brisbane
riIANDiS
PLAITED
KANGAROO
SKIN BELT
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobc!
£ a msonito
Celatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital £8,780,000
Reserve Fund 6,150,000
Reserve Liability 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 “ £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory oi New Guinea, and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE : 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEQRGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to tlie Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
“J.C.M.”: In a valley in Kent, on the
site of an old Roman temple whose ruins
peep out from among briars and elder-
hushes, is the world’s only parrot-farm.
Though that sounds exotic it’s an all-Brit-
ish institution, for the 3000-odd birds
that inhabit the big aviaries are almost all
of Australian extraction. There’s money in
the game, as some of the species bred here
BEAKS ARE HARDER NOW.
DEAR OLD GENT.: “Look at me, my man. I took the pledge over
forty years ago!”
’ORACE: “Y’ might ’a’ got out of it like that in them days, boss;
but they don’t give y’r th’ ( hie ) option now. It’sh ‘pay up
or take it out’!”
are very rare. A pair of Bourke parrakeets,
for instance, commands a price of £5O.
King George is the owner of a Bourke cock,
and he sends the bird to the farm at Keston
occasionally for a holiday and a taste of
home-life, as it were. Other birds for which
a demand is being built up are Brown’s.
Swainson’s and Leadbeater’s parrakeets,
rind the Norfolk Island and Stanley breeds.
Budgerygalis are available in almost any
shade, and as a change from the parrot tribe
there are flocks of.Gouldian finches.
* * * *
“Erua”: An inoffensive cyclist riding
along a Featherston (MX.) road had the
excitement of his career the other day when
an infuriated bullock broke away from a
herd and selected him as the object of his
attentions. The cyclist abandoned his machine
and dashed for a near-by house, which hap-
pened to be shut up, leaving as the only place
of safety a small wooden shed, in which
lie hid v behind a closed door. But the bul-
lock was in no mood to be baulked by a
mere shed, and after several furious on-
slaughts' he managed to topple the building
completely over. He was rolling it about
on the ground in an effort to dislodge tin-
unhappy inmate when help arrived.
* * *
“Miro”: A fishing launch at Whangaroa
(MX.) was to dump us on a small sandy
beach we had selected as an ideal bathing
spot and call for us three, hours later. We
had to swim ashore, and it didn’t take us
moi'o than five minutes to discover we were
not the only inhabitants of the beach. We
signalled vainly for the launch to return
immediately,, while millions and trillions of
small black ficas came from the sand and
the undergrowth and attacked us. The day
became intensely cold, but we had no option
but' to stay in the water to escape our
enemies. The launch broke down and was
two hours late, find came in to discover three
dejected young women marooned in a biting-
wind on a rock four feet square. The beach,
we afterwards learned, had months before
been the scene of a timber camp, and the
fleas were assumed to be the descendants of
a prolific variety the Maoris had left there.
:!-• * * *
“Chevrofoid” : Touching street trees (B.
10/10/’32). Why don’t councils plant more
poplars? There are plenty of spots in
streets, especially at corners or the intersec-
tion islands, where the tall columns of ver-
dure could grow to maturity without having
an annual controversy with telephone wires.
These green fingers pointing to Heaven
would correct the low, flat, monotonous roof-
line of the modern suburb and make John
Citizen feel more jolly. Since churches
ceased to be built or are being built without
steeples some substitute of the sort has be-
come a spiritual necessity.
* ❖ * %
“Aquila”: There can be'no doubt that the
vast nests which puzzled Captain Cook and
other early explor-
ers of the North
Queensland littoral
(B. 19/10/’32) were
those of the great
fishing eagles so
plentiful there. As
a rule these birds
prefer to build in
trees, like the
wedgetail ...of the
mainland, rearing
their edifices on the
ground wli ere
trees .of sufficient
size are not avail-
able. All the' eagles
and falcons mate
for life, and that
is one explanation
of their returning
year after year to
the same nest,
which is built up
every season until
it attains hu g e
proportions.- Th e
wedgetail of West-
ern Queensland is
fond of a big dead
tree which forks
well up from the
ground. In that
fork the nest is
built, and in the
course of years it
becomes a wide
platform of com-
pacted sticks and
small logs, spread-
ing far beyond the
circumference • of
the tree, and the
devil’s own job to
climb into, suppos-
ing the climber has
managed to ascend
the trunk. In
Europe the eagles
seem to be rock-builders. Probably civilisa-
tion has driven them to more inaccessible
quarters than any tree can afford.
•I: =5 *
“Hinemoa”: Long ago a Maoriland river
board wished to restore connection' between
its river and a large lake, separated
by a sandspit that accumulated periodi-
cally. The Maoris of the locality strenu-
ously objected. They said they owned the
sandspit. well knowing (for the Maoris
ANOTHER GLUTTED MARKET.
SALESMAN : “These books will make a better fanner of you, sir."
HAYSEED: “I don’t need no books, young fellah. I ain’t doing as well now as I
know how.”
keenly appreciate the twists and quirks of
Pakeha law) that, the claim would involve
a welter of litigation if contested. The
board decided it would cut a, drain through
that spit, which the Maoris had meanwhile
fenced. Police went along to watch pro-
ceedings. As soon as the board’s' men
started, to dig a trench, each man found
his shovel gently but very firmly grasped by
the hands, of a 14- or 15-stone Maori. The
board members present called on the police
inspector to arrest those Maoris. “Can’t
be done,” said the inspector. “That’s pas-
sive resistance, and I can’t interfere unless
there is violence.” “All right,” said the
board’s spokesman; “we’ll join hands in a
circle round the men, and if the Maoris try
to break through your course will be clear.”
No sooner said than done. But now the
wahines took a hand. Dodging under the
legSi.of the. men in the cordon, they plunged
into the drain and restored the sand as soon
as. it was shovelled .out. This fun continued
awhile,' and then the Maoris tired of it.
They sent their lawyer to suggest that the
matter be taken to court. The board
agreed, but its men went on digging, and
soon the lake, which was high, was pouring
through the narrow ditch, carrying the,
natives’ fence with it. There was litigation,
and eventually, as an alternative to an
appeal to the Privy Council, tlie matter went,
to Parliament for arbitration. Seddon was
then Minister of Native Affairs, as well as
Premier, and enjoyed the advice of Timi
Carroll. The next that was heard was that
the Maoris had decided to make a present, of
the lake to Queen Victoria. Timi Carroll,
to whom this decision was communicated,
bnmediately made a return present, on
behalf of her Majesty's Government, of
2000 sovereigns. All this was accord-
ing to precedent and custom. The Maoris
felt that they had managed the matter very
gracefully, and they gave a great picnic to
the pakebas. Seddon was there, and Carroll
got up a race between him and the heaviest
chief— lS stone. Seddon, who weighed IB
stone, gave the chief a start and won as he
liked. Afterwards there was speechifying.
Seddon said: “I have been asked t 0 drive
a peg on the shore of the lake to commemo-
rate this happy settlement. T am not going
to do it. I [here he smote his breast drama-
tically]' am the peg!” He understood his
Maoris, did Richard.
‘ I)r. Mivart” : The fly-screens outside my
laboratory windows have been in places
criss-crossed with chalk—l suspect my off-
spring. Tigelinus, who has no respect for
science. The other day a small spider—l
am no entomologist, but I think he belonged
to the tribe GasUracantha —inspected these
fly-screens and decided that they would
afford him a livelihood. So he. set to work
and made a most beautiful circular web over
a little inward bulge in the netting, and
then stationed himself in the middle of it,
on the inner side of tlie. web, with his back
to the netting, arranging his eight legs in
pairs so that they seemed to be but four.
He was distinctly visible -from outside, his
body being striped in lemon yellow and white,
and'l said to him : “You silly little fellow,
you’ll never catch flies if you show your-
self like that.’’ His legs quivered with in-
dignation. This was at 5 p.m. Next morn-
ing I found that Mr. Gasteraeantlia knew
more about his own business than I did.
Passing down the garden path outside my
laboratory, I noticed a new clialk-cross on
the fly-screens. Looking at it a little more
closely ere I should tax Tigelinus with the
crime, I discovered that it neatly concealed
Mr. Gasteracan tha and his long legs. But
how could this be? Mr. G. lived outside the
fly-screen! still closer inspection solved
the mystery. Mr. G., in the silent watches
of the night, had woven what looked like
two slender ribbons of silvery silk across
the centre of his web, passing the thread
round and round a pair of parallel radials
in each case, and was not only ready for
business but already doing well, judging by
a shell-like corpse that lay on the ledge
below his net. I’ve seen those St. Andrew’s
Cross webs in other places, but I take off
my hat to my little eight-legged, six-eyed
friend for adapting his architectural specialty
so neatly to circumstances.
*** ■ x
“J.C.”: To travel through Japan is to
meet the “ben-to” boy. He stands on the
railway platform and sells sandwiches. At
his cry “ben-to” passengers reach out from
carriage windows and huy his wares; and
it ‘ is on record that no one, has ever re-
ceived two of the one (kind of sandwich.
You can guess what your next ben-to box
will contain, but you’ll guess wrong! The
sandwich-box is as important to the Jap
vendor as the contents, for color combina-
tions rule the whole business. If the back-
ground of box is white, the contents will be
reds, pinks and greens, and maybe a brown.
Brown sandwiches contain seaweed.
THE FLAW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"A bloke ’oo stops at ’ome too much gets
narrer in ’is ways,’’ said Dave;
“ ‘E wants to move around a bit. an’ see ’ow
other folks behave.
Now, I’m a reel broadminded coot, an’ why?
Because I make a point
Of spendin’, ev’ry now and then, a week
away from this ’ere joint.
Once ev’ry year or thereabouts I make to-
wards the city lights,
Where, if a man is keen enough, he’ll find
some educatin’ sights.
I’ve travelled an’ improved me mind an’
that’s the reason, like enough.
When you’re comparin’ them with- me, the
neighbors seem uncouth and rough.
“I like the city sights an’ sounds, an’ yet
you know, there’s always flaws.
It narks a feller when ’is pipe gets clogged
each half a dozen draws.
An’ often while in town it makes me smokin'
go in fits and starts —
I never ’old with cigarettes—such fodder’s
only fit for tarts.
An’ once I went so far’s to aslc a natty
lookin’ city bloke
Why townies set so little store upon a com-
fortable smoke.
The only answer I received was just a sort
of frozen stare;
As far as I could tel]; it meant ’e didn't
know an’ didn’t care.
“It wa’n’t as if I missed a chance; when-
ever I was knockin’ round
I took partic’lar care to keep me optics
glued upon the ground.
But though I roved up quiet streets an’
alleyways I never could
Pick up a solitary quill, not one, to clean
me chcrrywood.
In other ways the city’s fine: flash pubs
where beer is cool an’ choice,
Where waiters ’over round an’ ask your
needs in ’ushed respectful voice;
’Ot water in the rooms- as well, with whips
of soap an’ extra towels.
But more than once it’s spoiled me trip—-
this scarcity of moultin’ fowls !’’
VIC.
ELLENVALE.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
( Opp. Raihvay Station),
’Phone F 4141 (10 line's).
200 Rooms
h
33
1
t if
ft
ii
hi
II
'ft
m
200 Baths
Melbourne's Most Modern Hotel.
Bates per clay:
Room and meals from 22/6
Room and Breakfast from 12/6
THIS LARGE INSURANCE COMPANY
CONSIDERED THE “COURIER” TO BE
The Very Best Medium
The Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance Co. sought the most effective and economical
method of making an announcement to Queensland people. They chose the “Brisbane
Courier,” and wrote us:—
you may be interested to know that those present were unanimous in
saying that the ‘Brisbane Courier’ was the very best medium, for that was the
papci they always noticed in the homes of the people with whom they came in
( Signed ) “A. J. HENDERSON,
‘‘General Manager.”
The Brisbane Courier” has been “the very best medium” for 87 years
S*/>e
Brisbane Courier
Representative: ROBT . D. FISHER, 7$ Pitt Street, Sydney—Bsoo7.
.
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Loelffe Ritual, etc.
8001.-let Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Cauitiein,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
v'our fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
[><l
• 42,
ds
SMOKE-OH!
“Can you name a pest—slightly larger than
Thrips—which has attacked my "fruit trees?”
— “Argus” garden notes.
What about Fourps?
* *
“The racing was warred by a considerable amount
of interference.” —“Sunday Sun.”
You always get it when the riders start
fighting for positions.
¥ ' *
“ ‘Despite her promises to be true,’ said petitioner,
‘she left with the milkman and was still living
with him.’ ”
Not the first wife who promised to be
true to the core, ahd meant to the co-re.
* *
THIS PUZZLING AGE.
“At Lido few of the bathers ever seemed to enter
the water.” — “Sun.”
But look at Sydney. It has thousands
of workers who never work, winners that
don’t win, bottle-openers that open nothing
and golfers that don’t golf. Also egg-boilers
SONGS WITHOUT WORDS.
that don’t boil eggs and tourist trips that
don’t trip tourists. For years we’ve had
Governments that don’t govern; and unless
the Board of Control alters its rules we are
likely to have a cricketer who doesn’t
cricket. q fd
* *
“Certain wind instrument's, according to one
doctor, can produce melancholia.” —“Sunday Sun.”
A politician blowing his own trumpet, for
instance.
¥
Fiji bananas have become apples of dis-
cord.
The story goes that Tate’s baby boy takes
an outsize in booties.
* *
If Grimmett’s ankle doesn’t improve before
the first Test he’ll only have one leg to .stand
on and Australia won’t have any.
* *
REVISED VERSION.
In the Spring a young man’s fancy
Used, to turn to motor-biking ;
Note he’s broke, and so with Nancy
( That’s his girl) he’s turned to hiking.
O. W. W.
* *
COMPENSATION.
Recently I bought a cottage. Miles from
anywhere, badly ventilated, poky, leak-
ing roof, no garden, and I fancy the drains
are defective. It cost me £2OOO cash. How-
ever, the view from the back verandah is
so glorious that it leaves my wife speech-
less. So I don’t begrudge the £2OOO.
P. O. M. C.
V *
“He had seen his wife teaching the children to
put vermilion on their finger-nails.”
— Divorce-court report.
It’s known as catching them red-handed.
THE MISSING FEATURE.
i(o “Constant Reader” frowned. Was the
V, M * Herald” slipping? True, the old
pfiiase. Strengthening the bonds of
Empire,” still adorned the lead-
ing article; the traditional
examples of elegiac verse still
hovered above it aptly in the
In Memoriam columns; the
weather map was running true
to form by accusing the blizzard
that was raging without of being
a heatwave. Yet unaccountably
lor. the past two days a feature
which “Constant Reader” had
come to regard as a permanency had been
missing. Puzzled, lie had searched the
paper through, yet, incredibly, he, had not
been able to find one reported speech by
.Mr. Weaver attacking an assailant of the
State Lottery.
S. W. K.
* *
The banks seem content to rest on their
owers.
* #
“Mothers Take a Back. Scat.’’— “Herald” headline.
And tell fathers in the front how to drive !
“Herbert Blank and Herbert Dash, charged with
vagrancy at Sydney Central, were found to have
long lists of convictions.”
And now those Herbs are in the soup.
* ¥
“From their cave the outlaws could see the
police toiling through the bush with the temperature
over 100 degrees.”— “Storyteller.”
It’s known as being hot on the trail.
* *
Rumored that a Sydney syndicate is rais-
ing money to send Mr. Lang to Monte Carlo.
The idea is that if the Auburn marvel can’t
break the bank there no one can.
“Why did you buy me shirts ten times too big? You
know my size!”
“Yes, but I didn’t want the salesman to know I was
married to such a squib.”
“Protests are being made about the cost of the
League of Nations.”
The objection being to the billing of the
dove of peace.
# ¥
QUESTION OF ACCENT.
“You’re hiking, I see.”
“I am, lad,” replied the Cockney, “in
every joint.”
* *
Life’s a gamble for the basic-wager.
* *
MR. LANG’S NEWSPAPER REPORTS
THE FIRST TEST.
Yesterday a vast crowd—mostly of the
parasitic classes, since under the tragic
regime of our unctuous Premier of the
Wilted H'alo the great mass of the workers
now on coolie wages cannot afford the exor-
bitant entrance price demanded by the auto-
cratic nabobs of the Board of Control —saw
the curtain rise on the first Test match of
rhe series, Niemeyer-ridden England versus
Australia, democratic and free, yet with a
democracy and freedom fast becoming vitiated
under the reactionary influ-
ence of the treacherous Alias
and T.B. political half-wits.
Jardine won the toss—yet not
one word of protest from the
canting, hypocritical, saintli-
saying humbug who deplores
gambling in any form, and who
would scotch our great leader’s
lottery were it not a money-
spinner!—and elected to bat-
on a good wicket, as good a
wicket as his bondholding
compatriots of the “tight little
isle” enjoy at the expense of
our overburdened country’s
struggling wage-plugs.
Sutcliffe and Wyatt faced
Wall and McCabe. In the
fast howler’s first over a
beautiful inswinger just miss-
ed Sutcliffe’s off stump by a
bare twelve inches—yet it is
highly significant that of this
incident our biassed Tory
press, steeped as it is in ail
egregious anti-Australianism,
maintained a contemptuous
silence. McCabe took up the
attack from the Randwick
end (of happy memories for
the opulent bookmaker friends
of our “Christian'’ Premier,
whose remission of taxation
of his fellow-members of
Tatt.’s at the expense of
Labor’s famished widows and
orphans is one of the greatest political
scandals of our age), though for the first
over his length was as erratic as the effete
banking system under which civilisation
groans.
Runs came slowly, though Sutcliffe was
cutting hard—a penchant of his that should
ensure his popularity with the wage-slashing
U.A.P. and their masters, the Employers'
Federation. The scoring was funereal until
Wyatt, when he had painfully reached 25
(curiously coincidental with the current
usurious exchange-rate kept high by the un-
scrupulous manipulators of High Finance).
touched a rising ball off Wall
and Oldfield made no mistake,
which is more than can be
said of the bunch of political
Aunt Sallies now on the Trea-
sury benches.
The Nawab of Pataudi —
compatriot of that courageous
Mahatma Gandhi who with
the undaunted Eamonn de
Valera is so nobly defying the
British Junkers and die-hards
—was first wicket down, and
immediately attacked tin
bowling with a zest equalled
only by the great Socialisa-
tion unit of the Movement.
Ten minutes later steady rain
set in, and play was aban-
doned for the day, with Eng-
land one out for 48,_ which,
curiously enough, has its poli-
tical counterpart, as there is
another who is out for 48 —
hours, and the specially-
appointed Industrial Commis-
sion of this alleged leader of
political misfits will do it for
him, despite his humbugging
about its being beyond his
control.
Apropos dc bottes, speaking
of that famous word that was
used ad nauseam during Jack
Lang’s Premiership, appa-
rently it isn’t repudiation
when the obnoxious anti-
Labor oligarchy known as the
Board of Control take the un-
fortunate toiler’s entrance-
money and when it rains cal-
lously repudiate their side of
the contract and leave him
cursing impotently on the
outer with no means of
getting his money back from the blood-
sucking octopi in high sporting places save
a threat of a general strike and the spec-
tacle of the gutters of the S.G.S. running red
with bourgeois blood. Faugh !
H. S.
"What do you think, dear? Baby can TALK!”
“Get away with you!"
“He can! He said ’yo-yo’ as plain as anything.”
THE FALL.
‘Another proposal is that the Castle should be
turned into a butter factory.” —Brisbane paper.
Alas! for poor Sir Blither Busts,
IHs scurvy fortune knows no bounds,
For yonder where his armor rusts
They’re turning butter out in pounds.
The heroes of the Table Round
No longer boast of foes they smote,
But take their seats with mien profound
And scan the latest market quote.
Odsbodikins! Busts’ family crest
Was never won in bloody scraps!
And see his motto: “Mine’s the Best
That Grocers vend in Butter-wraps."
But, saddest thing of all to see,
r Grimmest of fate’s grim paradoxes,
They’re cutting up his family-tree
Because they need more butter-boxes.
McM.
HOW HE DIED.
“Lipsticks and other cosmetics were produced
3500 years ago.”— “Sun.”
After kissing his thousand wiv>es good night.
King Solomon’s face was a painful sight:
For a Gyppo chemist had used his block,
And sold them the whole of his lipstick
stock,
The King said sternly: “Girls, this must
stop,”
But they couldn’t be kept from the chemist’s
shop.
Persisted with tinted lips to frolic,
And finally killed him with painter’s colic!
McM.
THE LAST JOY RIDE.
“A driver of a motor hearse, Reynolds William
Pettican, was fined 30s. at Bromley recently for
exceeding the speed limit of 30 m.p.h. To a. con-
stable he said ‘I am in a. hurry ; I have a body on
board.’ ” —Melbourne ‘‘Herald.”
Pettican, Pettican, burial man,
Make my last journey as swift as you can!
Accelerate, Pettican, now I am sped,
And see that, the quick gives a spurt to the
dead.
Though the cops rave, let the corpse go the
pace;
The last must be first at the end of this
race.
Hurry up, Pettican, my latest breath
Sounds the speed slogan: Be in at the death!
NORBELL.


66
‘Meet me at The Marble Bar
AND HAVE A
99
The Best Beer at the Best Bar
.From the romantic days of Cobb and Co. Adams’ Hotel has been a
land-mark in Pitt-st reet, and the “home from home” for visitors
from every part of the universe.
In 1878 the late George Adams took it over from one, George O’Brien,
and from an insignificant hostelry it has emerged into the most
luxurious hotel in the Southern Hemisphere, surrounded with
historic and sentimental interest.
“Meet me at the Marble Bar” has developed into more than a
meaningless phrase. It is a fact. This bar is an epic in Archi-
tectural beauty and cost £32,000 to build....
And where Richmond Bitter, Lager, Pilsner and Stout
are served to a highly discriminating public.
Dine at Adams’—stay at Adams’ —drink your Richmond there, too,
and you will receive a service that has stamped this famous hotel
as the most popular in Australia. The modern hotel backed by
a wealth of tradition.
ADAMS’ (“Tatt.’s”) HOTEL,
George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
1 I
1 i
Marble Bar
*3TTCC=
iTTTTTIW?
-^^TTTTTrnrrn-r^—
mm
mm
The Entrance
mm&titamH#
<S>
. >•*•'
I )r
m i
m
D/n/nq Room
.
SSlfei**-*"?*?#: • ■ :.: ‘
&
Ufttaa
>IL. -■
Hi.
i
I
1?
i..‘-.I "
""•Sw
I
rr
g-lJgjL^^SLr:
wrpl™
:■
I
Pa
If
&
S*
i
umsE
-
ii..
ill
I :jW
F"~»-i. .‘ST j .^•y J nfe«cr^s r i^c
I;
waypr 1
ifrpi
j 1:1
Mi
i lef
?S' IP rr*
i ! ■ WIW
■ 2ft«
r„.' r:nn(n*:]
mi
aaj
1
11-
I
TXrf ERSa-LL S HOTEL IN 1865


U
Ten seconds
to strop.
Ten seconds
to clean.
fsd
The VALET
Razor Strop & Blade form
the PERFECT SHAVING
PARTNERSHIP
Because the super-keen edge of a
“VALET” blade is perfectly strop-
ped each time you use it —you get a
better shave. Because the “VALET”
razor is so simple to use you get a
quicker shave. Because you definite-
ly want easier, quicker, better shav-
ing, get a “VALET” Auto Strop.
British Made—of all dealers.
Sets from 5/- to 65/ -
“VALET".
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australia
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIM TED,
181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
fsd
JEALOUS
STUART
CRAFTSMEN
Jealous of their past, jealous of
their present, jealous ol their
future, they etch the name
STUART on every piece of the
crystal they fashion, so lovingly,
so that it is known and admired
wherever beautiful glass is sold.
And because their skill is heredi=
tary, handed down from father
to son for many generations, you
can still pay as little as a few
shillings for a genuine example.
AA
zt.
s«C
S»s
m
m
m
B£>
mm
r«
2s^
Hi
m
Be sure to look for the registered name «Stuart” on every piece you buy.
MEETING the NEEDS
of MODERN FARMING with
THE EVERSHARP
QUALITY
Surmounting all
Ploughshare
Troubles of the past.
Superior to all others.
No Relaying or
Repointing Required.
Thousands of “Alloy” Plough-
shares have been sold during the
past few months, giving out-
standing results.
1
%
ti
i
/;
BS*ig
I
ECONOMY
Leading Farmers
Advise they are ,
NON-CLOGGING,
LONG WEARING,
DRAUGHT SAVING
UNBREAKABLE
AND EVERSHARP.
Write for the “Alloy” Plough-
share Booklet and read of its
superior performance in all parts
of N.S.W.
STEEL PLOUGHSHARES
FROM AUSTRALIAN MATERIALS —BY AUSTRALIAN LABOR-FOR AUSTRALIAN FARMERS.
The most important improvement in Ploughshares since the invention of the Chilled Iron Ploughshare P® te R °| >er ] t w ; t h the
-129 years ago. “Alloy” Full-socketed Ploughshares retain the best features of the Ch,lied Iron and trough Steel g
Superlative Advantage of being made from the Toughest Abras.cn and Shock-res.st.ng Alloy Stee known to Meta g
combined with a Patented Manufacturing Process ensuring Uniform Quality and Perfect Fitting Shares or a ma es o
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
AUSTRALIAN ALLOY STEEL LIMITED
REG. OFFICE: 3 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. WORKS: BOURKE ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W.
COUNTRY AGENCIES AVAILABLE


fsd
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
YEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS fi' CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
( liaii man of Directors: Hoii. A. K. Tret ho\v;t n, M.L.C. Managing Director ;H, .Fell.
r |i ;ad „ office: p - * Q- Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
t Agents: Farmers & Graziers' Co-operative Grain Insurance and
p Agency Co., Ltd. jg:
PROGRESS
If you contemplate the future, as we all can and do, you must
gather some conception of the, enormous progress that civilisation will
inevitably make within the probable period of your life.
You must realise, too, that such progress will be the sum total of
all individual endeavors. Thus you will realise, no doubt have already
accepted, your own part in this great forward movement which is
progress. If you are to play your part valuably, you must not be a
drag upon any other section of the community, but in one respect at
least you can provide against this.
The Savings Account will help you build your career, help you
to independence, and therefore to a useful place as a citizen. Very
little money is required to start an account, which will cost you only
the decision to open it, and to faithfully maintain it, for your own
and, therefore, for the general national welfare. '
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
GOOD AND BAD FARMING.
" Yqi’ke P.”: South Aus, Auditor-General
Rogers has been going into the accounts of
settlers who have been helped bv the Gov-
ernment. under the Farm Relief and Debt
Adjustment Acts. lie is a singularly out-
spoken public servant; when he thinks a
man lias no chance in the world of winning
through he says so, after setting down the
facts. And naturally he found such cases.
“Some farmers, are so heavily in debt that
they have no reasonable hope of again becom-
ing solvent.” One, who owes £2700 to the
Government and £lOOO to private creditors,
had “practically no crop” in 1926-27, ’27-'2S
or ’2B-’29, got 2$ bushels to the acre in
29-’3O and 11 in ’3O-'3l, and “has no sheep,
one cow and one pig.” Clearly, as the A.-G.
puts it, “a hopeless proposition. The farmer
could not pay his way with wheat at 10s.
a bushel. It would have paid to maintain
him in idleness for the six years he has
been on this farm.” Others of the same
kidney "have never had a payable crop, and
are never likely to have one, except very
rarely in a most unusual season”; they
. nevertheless “accumulated individual
liabilities as high as £ll,OOO, principally
(of course !). to the Government.”
But the shiftless cases are few; the sturdy
cases many. “Approximately 20 per cent, of
the farmers assisted in 1931-32 paid their way
and paid some amount off their other debts,
even up to half the total amount in arrear.”
Upwards of a thousand—lo6s at .Tune 30 —
are_ working their properties under the Debt
Adjustment Acts, getting, instead of Govern-
ment advances, the benefit of a kind of mora-
torium where such is considered necessary.
Of these thousand-odd farmers not more than
four are “regarded as being in a hopeless
financial position.” The 1931-32 operations
ot 40 are given in detail. Most of them
"paid the expenses of sowing and reaping,
interest and hire-purchase instalments, rates
and taxes. Some also paid substantial
amounts off tlieir antecedent debts. A few T
paid off the whole of their antecedent debts.”
And this with wheat at about 35., bounty
included, and with (in most cases) two
drought years preceding the two years of
depression !
On the evidence of these accounts, forti-
fied by personal observation, the A.-G. con-
siders that “efficient farmers can succeed on
light mallei* lands, with wheat at even less
than 3s. 6d. a bushel, if they can get an
eight-bushel average, and even lower.” For
“working expenses, excluding interest, on
mallee lands can be kept down to 17s. 6d.
an acre.” He thinks tractors have been over-
done (“on light soils they seem to be much
more expensive than horses, and on heavy
soils are a doubtful proposition”), but allows
that “a judicious combination of tractors
and horses, seems to be good practice when
the area is large and the yield per acre
substantial.” Among other features of a
most interesting report is an item showing
how greatly stock can contribute to making
wheat-farm operations payable, A man in
the mid-North put in 300 acres and got a
25-bushel crop. But his wheat realised
only 2s. 91d. a bushel without the bounty
of 41d., and costs were high: his is one of
the “many cases in which interest is more
than half the per-acrc cost of production.”
So, with taxes and everything paid, expenses
worked out at 35.4 d. a bushel and returns
at 38d. But “earnings from sheep, cows,
pigs, fowls, etc.,” made such a difference
that “he carried forward £330. paid his full
expenses for the year, and Bd. in the £ off
his antecedent debts.”
FALLOWING MUST BE THOROUGH.
“Wesco'ck.v”: The raising of good crops
in the outer parts of the Westralian wheat
belt depends mainly on the fallowing done
in .Tune, July and early August. It is best
to begin ploughing immediately the seeding
is completed. The main problem is the eradi-
cation of weeds, which not only choke out
the growing crop, but also supply hosts for
parasitical fungi, besides sapping the nour-
ishment being stored for the wheat.
A common mistake is to fallow more
ground than the plant will allow. It is
hopeless trying to fallow once the regular
winter rains cease and the ground com-
mences to harden, as generally happens dur-
ing the later days of August. By then the
weeds are rapidly maturing, and, though
turned in, the seed forms and ripens while
the parent plant is withering. This means
a fine crop of weeds to be coped with in the
next seeding period. It is essential, before
spring arrives, to send the cultivators, rigid-
tyned preferred, over the ploughed, areas.
The cultivating cannot be overdone; it. is
the only sure method of killing weeds and
retaining a good, surface mulch.
Wild oats, bariey-grass and mustard are
a nightmare to farmers in these arid parts.
To force them to germinate before the fal-
lowing, it is advisable to' dry-plough any
grass paddocks that you intend to fallow.
Wild oats and mustard will ofteu lie dor-
mant for at least two seasons if left on the
surface. I’ve seen wild-oat seeds clinging
to clods that have been turned up nine
months after the first ploughing. Many
of them were sprouting then; others had
sent out long, white shoots that were seek-
ing an outlet through the clay.
Xo matter how hard the ground has set.
or how badly the land is infested with weeds,
little benefit can be derived from re-plough-
ing just previous to seeding. By turning
the lower soil to the surface, much of the
accumulated nitrogen is released, and no
artificial fertiliser can replace the naturally-
stored nitrogen. The result will be a slow-
growing crop which the weeds will choke
back. Moreover, re-ploughing will not kill
all the weeds, for their seeds continue ger-
minating until the end of June; apparently
it is only the seeds of the domesticated
cereals that germinate en masse after the
first rains. I repeat that well-worked fallow
is the only sure method of producing boun-
tiful wheat crops in these districts. Bad
fallow' is worthless.
WERRIBEE SHOWS THE WAY.
“Young Cocky”: Twenty years lago a
Government research farm was established
at Werribee (Yic.) on “a bare, windswept
plain.” It was a fortunate venture for the
State, for on this farm were bred Free Gal-
lipoli, Ranee, Ranee 4H and other wheat
varieties which, all told, are reckoned to
have added two bushels an acre to the State
average. The advance in popularity of
Werribee-bred wheats in Victoria is really
amazing. In 1925 they were sown on a
mere 2 p.c. of the area under wheat. In
1926 they constituted 6 p.c. of the total;
in 1927, 16 p.c.; in 1925, 25 p.c., reaching
1,000.000 acres for the first time. In 1929
paddocks sown with Werribee wheats
totalled 1,480.000 acres, or 41 p.c.; in 1930,
2,650,300 —56 p.c.; in 1931, 2,116,500—66
p.c._ Free Gallipoli alone waved over
1,254,300 acres—39 p.c. of the total sown.
It may be that results equally striking in
their way will flow from the inanurial tests
on pastures and rotational-grazing experi-
ments being carried out at Werribee. One
hard lesson to be learned from the depres-
sion years is that the Australian wheat-
grower can no longer depend on wheat alone.
The vast U.S. and Canadian surpluses, the
re-entry of Russia into the field of exporters
and the emergence of Italy as a producer
have made the combination of stock-raising
with wheatgrowing imperative. Werribee
has shown that if permanent pasture is laid
down, top-dressing with super, practised (“an
annual application of 4cwt. per acre is pay-
able”) and rotational grazing gone in for,
almost any wheatgrowey can keep stock,
preferably sheep. If irrigation is practic-
able so much the better. The Werribee
farm has this advantage. On its irrigated
area there is a fine showing of permanent
pastures, which have “proved much better
adapted for grazing than lucerne.” As
regards irrigation, it has been found that
six waterings of 4in. each have given the
most satisfactory results.
Three years ago a 10-acre paddock at
Werribee was subdivided for rotational-graz-
ing purposes. The pasture was then 13
years old: Perennial Rye and Kentucky
Blue grass, cocksfoot, white, strawberry anil
sub. clover, all well distributed. An
autumn dressing of 2cwt. of super, has been
applied. In one portion of the paddock five
acres are divided into two, and each half
is grazed alternately for ten days. The
other five acres are subdivided into ten half-
acre lots; each of these is grazed for two
days in rotation. Sheep were put on, and
have been maintained in prime condition,
while under the controlled grazing the carry-
ing capacity has been rather wonderful
Here is the sober statement prepared by the
farm authorities and published in the “Jour-
nal of Agriculture”: “The sheep at present
on the plots are maiden ewes—mixed cross-
breds, dropped about September. 1930. They
were introduced to the tests as weaners on
April 2, 1931. In ihe winter of 1931 the
10 acres carried 108 sheep; in the summer up
to 200. Last winter 80 sheep (the same, but
a year older) were carried, and have made
slight gains in weight; these 80 have been
on the plots continuously since April, 1931.
The average number carried on the small
plots for 371 days ended April 6, 1932, was
15.03 sheep per acre ; on the larger plots
14.16. The sheep grazing on the ten half-
acre plots gained 28141 b. of livcweight, and
those on the two 21-acre plots 26191 b.”
Rotational, grazing on these lines is going
to do great things for Australia. Consider
the possibilities in the Murray Valley alone.
MARKETING EAT LAMBS.
“Golightly”: Prices for fat lambs this
season have been low. Good, prime, heavy
suckers average about 11s. «rross, and merino
ewes in the full wool about the same price,
ewe and lamb netting the owner about 18s.
Good five-year-old merino ewes can be bought
off shears in N. 8. Wales at 4s. to ss. per
head. This shows a profitable margin for a
farmer with suitable country.
When trucking l make a practice of send-
ing about 40 p.c. of mothers with the lambs.
AIJ the aged dry sheep go first (where the
pastures are good enough to produce fat
suckers dry ewes are usually prime) ; these
are followed by the best-conditioned aged
mothers of an earlier trucking of lambs,
which fatten quickly when their lambs arc
taken from them. By this method two im-
portant points of farm management arc
covered. The youngsters travel well on
track and train and the farm is well rid of
ageing ewes. To avoid sheep getting down
in the trucks, they should be rested and
watered at least four hours before loading;
eight or 32 hours is better still.
When I first started fat-lamb raising I
believed that keeping them on pastures until
the last possible moment was best, but I
paid for the. error. Prime lambs will bold
their condition from, say, 25 miles from
trucks until sale day, provided (1) three full
days are taken to the trucking yards, (2)
they are not knocked about by dogging, (3)
they are spelled in the heat of the day and
travelled only in the early morning and
afternoon, then watered and rested at truck-
ing yards. The modern truck will carry
comfortably 40 merino ewes in full wool and
70 of their cross lambs in wool, dressing
461 b. and 381 b. respectively. With anything
heavier the numbers should be reduced. In
consigning ewes with lambs most N.S.W.
farmers can fill at least three vans. This
has the advantage of securing a drover’s
pass and his subsequent care in transit. I
screw up all truck couplings until buffers
are pressed tight. A whole train so treated
is of great benefit to tlie stock —loose coup-
lings are one of the chief causes of sheep
going down. I also endeavor to avoid the
loading rush at trucking centres, when a
crowd of breathless men with sharp sticks
and biting dogs endeavor to break time
records by jambing lambs into trucks, heed-
less of the injury done them. In the
interest of tlie fat-lamb trade and of the
animals, sticks, if used at all, should have
padded ends. The ordinary rubber crutch-
tips (invalid) are just the thing for this
purpose, and a small slieep crook on the
other end is invaluable when sheep get down
in transit. All dogs at the yards should
be muzzled.
OATS FOR SILAGE.
“Valerin” : In my experience the best and
most economical crop for trench ensilage is
oats. The crop should be sown thickly,
about two bushels to the acre; this ensures
a very fine stand. In cutting with a reaper
and binder make the sheaves a moderate
size; they are more easily handled that way
and pack far better than heavy sheaves with
large butts. In placing the sheaves in the
pit, lay transversely, not “longways” as sug-
gested by many authorities. This makes it
very much easier to pull over the pit with
the loaded waggons, rack the sheaves care-
fully ; it may take a little longer, but it.
pays by getting more in and saves a lot of
bad temper when taking out.
By the way, I have noticed a good deal of
loose smut in oats this season in my Riverina
district. If not checked this may prove a
serious menace to future crops. When
smutted grain is sown it should be treated
with a good fungicide, but the “dry” process
of treating with fungicide is not satisfactory,
the oat hull being too thick. The old-
fashioned method of steeping in a 10 per
cent, solution of Milestone gives the best
results. After immersion the seed should be
spread out. dried and put into a disinfected
bag.
LUCERNE HAY.
“Mudgee”: The reference in B. 39/10/’32
to lucerne hay being cut and stacked on the
same day is quite correct, hut it can only
be done where crops are comparatively thin.
The time lucerne should stay in the pad-
dock is governed by a number of factors,
the chief of which is the weather. If rain
is threatening it generally pays to bring it
in on the green side, as it has been my
experience that buyers will pay more for
lucerne that goes brown in the shed through
sweating than for what goes brown in the
paddock through rain. Rain on freshly-cut
lucerne does not discolor it, so that if one
could be sure the next day would be fine
—-rather difficult, perhaps—one could safely
mow in the rain.
As regards the right stage of growth to
cut lucerne, disregard the bloom altogether
as a guide—look at the bottom of the stalk.
As soon as the bottom leaves turn yellow
is the correct time. If you leave it after
that the bottom leaves drop off and the hay
tends to become stalky. If you cut before
these leaves turn you are not getting the
full growth of the plant in your cut.
TEST YOUR COWS.
“Mulgo”: A dairyman who regarded two
Hue-looking _ cows as the pick of his herd,
for production as well as appearance, was
staggered when the tester relegated them to
the thirties, whilst cows that lie thought
little of were placed high up. This shows
the importance of herd-testing, and of re-
taining. only heifers from test-proved cows
for breeding. Looks are deceptive, and a
cow that seems all right as to quantity of
milk yielded may be unprofitable as to
quality. Fifty good cows are more profit-
able than a hundred of the medium sort,
and require only half the area to keep in
milk. Keeping inferior cows is a ruinous
policy.
Before the Babcock tester came, we used
to test _ our cows by a simple home method.
The milk from each, taking one to-day and
another to-morrow, and so on, was set in a
dish, and the thickness and quality of the
cream were noted. From'some of the cows
the cream was thin and white; from others
it was thick and of a light, golden color. The
latter were the good cows ; the rest, though
they might give a lot of milk, w r ere turned
out as useless—except for the butcher.
Short of the proper tester, this is a method
that every dairyman should use for himself
as an initial guide. When purchasing cows,
take them on approval, and try their milk
with the dish for cream content. We never
used the test sooner than a fortnight or
three weeks after a cow had calved, for the
reason that a cow may start fairly well and
.rapidly diminish, whereas a good cow main-
tains a high standard right through her
milking period.
WHITE PIGS PREFERRED.
“Rentpayer”: At Ottawa the British
representatives said it was the aim of their
Government to restrict imports of bacon so
as to bring about a wholesale price of not
less than 80s. a cwt. (best Danish has been
sold in Britain at 4Ss., “the lowest price
this century”). “The restriction scheme,”
says Minister Gullett, “will be of very great
value to Australian farmers; the way will
be open to them to engage actively in the
raising of pigs for the export of frozen
pork, to be converted into .bacon in British
curing factories,” two-thirds of which, he
mentions, have been closed by the glut of
supplies from the Continent. It is a rather
attractive prospect; but one important ques-
tion remains to be decided. Which breed
or cross is best suited for this export trade?
Departmental experts go nap on the Tam-
worth-Berkshire cross. But an increasing
number of farmers favors Large Whites,
or a cross in which the Large White pre-
dominates ; and the British buyer seems to
have the same preference.
The Westralian “Sunday Times” is con-
ducting a campaign in favor of the Lara-e
White. It says that “at the Royal Show in
Perth the entry of Large Whites showed a
remarkable increase, and at the Show sales
the demand for this breed overshadowed
inquiries and prices realised for either Tam-
worth or Berkshires” (this was also the
case at the Brisbane Show). The “Sunday
Times” mentions a Katanning sale at
which “a consignment of porkers bred from
Large White boars and sows of the Tam.-
Berk. cross established something of a
record in prices. Mr. Harold Watson, of
I remantle, who is in closer touch with
export-pork conditions than anyone else in
the State, said he had not iseen better
porkers, and had secured them specially for
export. Mr Watson strongly favors the
Large V lute. ’ The paper goes on to sav
that a trial consignment of pork from Gov-
-01 nment-bred Tam.-Berk pigs was sent to
London, and a great fuss was made of the
experiment, but the result has not been
published in Westralia, though repeatedly
asked for. This is curious, for the fact's
have been disclosed on this side of Australia
I hey appear indeed in an Empire Marketing
Board report.
Loss Grant, of the Chief Veterinary
Officers Department, London, “inspected 21
porkers shipped on account of the Department
of Agriculture, Westralia,” and his judgment
was.severe. “From the'pork butchers’ point
or view the carcases were over-fat, and there-
fore wasteful; as in a previous shipment,
(Continued on next page.)


It pays to buy a hand-
sewn shoe
Ready-made. . . .but hand-sewn
throughout. . . .this Abbey Shoe is
easily the best in stock shoes. It
wears longer and preserves its shape
better than any machine-sewn foot-
wear. It stands more resoling and,
in the long run, actually saves
money. In workmanship and quality
of leather it’s unsurpassed. And
you will notice its extra comfort
straight away.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also,
a tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.) or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 707-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 70/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 292
»
&
*0
*
11
m
The Sport Roadster
The Greatest Value in th
History of the Automohil
T HE New V-8 Cylinder Car by Ford is
the greatest value ever offered Australian
motorists. It is so new and different
so far ahead in design and perlormance
that there is no basis for comparison.
A mere listing of its features shows its
Quality. Smooth, vibrationless Eight Cyl-
inder engine. 65 horse-power. Remarkable
acceleration. 75 miles an hour. Silent
synchronised change. Automatic
spark control. Down-draft; carburettor
with silencer. Low, good-looking, roomy
bodies. Soft;, restful seats. Luxurious up-
holstery and fittings. Comfortable riding
springs. Self-adjusting Houdaille two-way
hydraulic shock-absorbers, with thermo-
static ride control. Remarkably low petrol
and oil consumption.
An Improved Four-Cylinder 50-horse-power Engine. Operating with new smoothness, is obtainable in
same eight beautiful body types. Has many of the outstanding features of the New V-8. See it. Drive it.
Know' personally why it is as sensational as the New V-8.
Prices and full particulars at all Ford Dealers.
THE NEW V-8 CYLINDER CAR BY FORD
FO R D M* O' TO ‘R COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PT Y . LTD.
some of the pigs were unfinished, and could
easily have carried another 30 or more
pounds, in which case they would have, been
better finished, but too heavy. The weights,
which ranged from 70-1001 b., were suitable,
and the pigs were well butchered and a
good color. Their out-turn would be hard
to improve on.” But when cut up at Smith-
field the carcases confirmed unfavorable
first impressions, “though they were evidently
intended as show pigs,” and Mr. Grant con-
cluded that the Tamworth, unless, perhaps,
entirely dairy-fed, cannot be finished to
produce a carcase suitable for the London
trade. He suggests that the. ideal porker
can only be produced by crossing the Laigi
Wliite boar with the Middle White sow. At
all events, “the Tamworth-Berkshire cross,
even from Maoriland, where it is reported to
be very popular, and particula.rly from VV est-
ralia, leaves much to be desired, and com-
pares unfavorably with the White breeds.
After all, the deciding factor m the case
is the taste and fancy of the British con-
sumer. We will have to give him wliat he
wants or we will get very little of his cus-
tom; and it ought to be comparatively easy
to find out definitely wliat he does want.
STONY GROUND.
“Yarri”: Ploughmen don’t like stony
ground; but there is something to be said
for it. At Gundurimba, on the Richmond,
and at Fassifern, south-east Queensland, 1
have seen many farms walled round with
stones picked up from the ploughed fields.
I have worked such farms, too, for maize
and sugar-cane, and found that crops did
well on the stony soil in dry weather, whilst
on neighboring ground free of stones crops
planted at the same time and of similar
kind fared badly. The stones just under the
surface helped to retain the moisture and
to keep the soil from caking hard.
On sheep-runs outback many of the low,
exposed hills are sprinkled with loose stones,
below and above the surface. I have
noticed that the feed remained longer on
those hills than on neighboring rises
that had no stones. In. that part, subject to
strong, hot winds, the stones serve a double
purpose: they prevent the porous soil being-
raked away from the roots of the grass and
herbage. ~
On sloping farms stones help considerably
in preventing soil erosion. Big chunks are
a nuisance in harrowing, but they don t
have to be bigger than what will pass
through the tines to benefit the ground ; and
they are better turned under with the
plough than left on tlie surface. The big
ones, gathered into a dray, need not be
wasted, for they improve the gully cross-
ings and the watering places for cattle.
Besides this, a dump of stones is always
useful, for numerous little jobs occur where
they are wanted. . _ ,
On fields where the mower is used stones
of course are impossible; though the roller
levels them down, a small one that breaks
loose can do serious damage. But in other
fields, including gardens and orchards, they
are an advantage.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What causes cow pox in dairy cows?
(2) How is it dealt with? (3) Is there
any means of preventing outbreak and
spread? (4) Method of treating large
common worm in pigs? —2so6.
(1) An ultra-microscopic micro-organism
called a virus. Infection commonly occurs
during hand-milking, being carried in that
way from one cow to another. Infection may
also occur through contaminated straw bed-
ding. (2) Broken blisters should be treated,
after milking, with a mildly antiseptic oint-
ment such as salicylic acid 1 drachm, vaseline
loz. Sponging the sores with a -A p.c.
solution of zinc sulphate after each milking
checks the inflammation. The affected
udders should be kept dry and clean. Affected
animals should be milked after the rest ot
the herd, aftd the milker’s hands should, be
washed in weak disinfectant after milking.
(3) Only precaution that, can be taken is
to keep straw, bedding, etc., as clean as
possible. (4) Starve for 18 to 24 hours, then
give areca nut, 4 to 2 drachms, dose accord-
ing to size of pig. The smaller dosage is
for a pig 1001 b. in weight. This should be
given with or be followed by a dose of castor
oil, loz. to 30z., with 4 to 1 teaspoon of tur-
pentine added, according to weight. With-
hold water and feed for three hours, and
when medicine has acted give milk food or
easily-digested slop feed till well.
(1) Is there a market for green ginger?
(2) How is it marketed? (3) What is con-
sidered a good price? (4) Nature of sod
best suited > for cultivation? (5) Rainfall
necessary ?—2517.
(1) Jam manufacturers, confectioners and
preservers buy limited quantities. (2) In
the raw form, clean and free from soil,
packed in Chapman sacks or 701 b. sugars.
(3) Anything over 34d. per pound. (4)
A well-drained, clayey loam, well fertilised.
(5) Nothing less than 65in. p.a. Ginger
will stand excessive rainfall if drainage con-
ditions are favorable, but dry conditions are
fatal.
(1) Particulars of the sweet, process of
pickling gherkins? (2) Names of books on
manufacture of pickles and ivhere obtain-
able?— 2514.
(1) Make a pickle of salt and water that
will float an egg, and pour it over the gher-
kins ; allow to stand about 24 hours. Drain
off the liquid, and simmer the gherkins in
clean water until they can be pierced with
a knitting needle. Place in jars, and cover
with this pickle: Iqt. vinegar, lib. sugar,
1 teaspoon cloves, 2 teaspoons peppercorns,
1 teaspoon pepper; remove the flower ends
from the cloves as they tend to darken the
liquor, boil all together for 20 minutes,
strain and pour on to the gherkins. Cover
when cold, and store in a cool place. (2)
“Jams and Preserves, Bottled Fruit and
Vegetables, Chutney and Pickles,” by Foul-
sham; 3s. 6d. from N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
Sydney.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Cooramin” : The broken flap of an old
saddle makes a first-class fire-beater. Attach
a handle and punch a few holes in the
leather for the air to pass through. With-
out the holes the swatter creates a swirl
of air that spreads the flames, and requires
more force to swing down.
“Mulgo”: Drinking troughs should be
sheltered in summer ; stock do not . relish
water that has been left standing in the
sun. A few forked uprights with poles
across and covered with bark, boughs or
cane-grass is sufficient roof. Don’t use iron
“Hatter”; There is a simpler way ot
mending wall lamps than that mentioned by
“Odd Job” (B. 19/10/’32). Melt a little
beeswax, pour it in the lamp and tilt it
so that it covers the hole till set.
“Mulyan”: Instead, of making pit-traps
alongside a netted fence for rabbits,, make
a netted pen, about 10ft. by 6ft.. in the
same position. Cut an opening in each of
the corners where it connects with the bar-
rier, and insert a funnel-shaped. tube of
wire-netting, about 2ft. long, the big end of
the tube flush with the end of the pen, and
the small end protruding inside. Rabbits,
following the fence in search of an opening,
go through the tube; looking for a
way out, they go round the pen and
over the tube. The small end of the
tube should be only just wide enough for
a rabbit to squeeze through. A dozen of
these traps can be made in the time that
it takes to make one pit-trap.
“Dimon”: A small anvil, useful for doing
many light jobs on the farm, such as mend-
ing chains and pointing picks and plough-
shares. can be made with an ordinary flat
iron and two pieces of Sin. hy 2in. hard-
wood. Cut a groove on the inner flat side
of each piece for the handle to fit in when
they are set on edge and the iron is placed
upside down on them. Bolt them tightly
together, and nail them to the top of a solid
block of wood. It is an advantage to allow
the point of the iron to project a little
beyond the ends of the clamps.
“N. de W.” : If you have a tree growing-
near a fence try this, provided the tree
hasn’t too much lean. Cut a belly scarf
two-thirds of the way through on the side
and in the direction you want it to fall;
then put a big gibber or chunk of wood in
the scarf, fence side, and back the tree
off. Using the gibber as a lever you will
slew it all right. The same effect can be
had with saw and wedges, but they ;l
awkward things to carry in the saddle-Da,,.
“Lucky Day'’: A good dog collar for tin
hot weather is made from No. 8 white wi •
Cut a piece about lin. longer than tne
dog's, collar size. Bend it in a circle, an
from each end make a loop in the ’wire-
Ii'ook around Fido’s neck and clinch togethei.
It’s cool and light.
“Hornby” : Storm-tangled crop causes a
lot of trouble in the matter of .sheaf-releas-
ing from the binder. Run a length or tni.
wire from the release mechanism to the sea .
and attach that end to an old clothes peg so
that the driver may operate the release wit 1-
out stopping the machine.
“Cavesson” : Should Strawberry be a per-
sistent kicker or if there is teat-dressing
to be done, try fixing a heavy liame-strap in
a figure-eight, tightly above the hocks. u
greater restraint is needed, take two oi
three turns of the strap around itself between
the legs—then buckle. Always adjust so
iliat the buckle is on the outer side of the
leg nearest you. , .
“Gumblegubbin”: Linseed-oil and large
petrol-drums, cut in two lengthwise, make,
good troughs about the farm. If a longei
trough is required, put a piece of sort wood
between the ends of two halves, and. screw
tightly together with small bolts. A hole
may be cut through the bottom of the par-
tition to connect the two sections.
“Gardener” : If slugs or snails worry your
seedlings, try a sleeve made from newspaper.
Take a sheet and fold in two or four, as
desired, and pin it with a piece of wire or
nail into a circle. Sink it an inch or two
into the ground.
“Jack Point”: Eggs showing watery
whites are objectionable. If the birds are
enjoying a good ration of mash, grain and
greenstuff and the whites still show watery a
mineral mixture is called for —preferably one
of the commercial ready-mixed ones—used
at the rate of 81b. per 1001b. of mash If
the mineral mixture does, not do the trick
the proportion of grain should be cut down
and the mash increased correspondingly.
“Musca” : The Queensland Animal Health
Station in Brisbane is tackling an interest-
ing job Mrs. Annhauser, a Cunnamulla
grazier, claims that she has evolved a breed
of sheep immune to the blowfly curse, and
that the sheep can transmit their immunity
to their progeny. She has placed a ram at
the disposal of the Health Station ; it is
a good type of merino flock ram, with noth-
ing to distinguish it from others of its type.
Experiments are now being made, and if tho\
support the contention of the breeder, the
value of the new type to the Australian pas-
toral industry will be incalculable.
“Purple Straw”: Gluyas wheat was bred,
not at Roseworthy College (B. 21/9/J_) .
but by H. I. Gluyas. of Goodwood (S.A.).
on his father’s farm at Telowie. The strain
has been known for over 45 years.


Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
s
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&O Ltd.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
s>
❖
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural.
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” is in its 91st year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania,
Full information, copies, advertising rates “The Examiner,’’ “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
dsd
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants.
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying aim
Selling .List l<’ree;
Established 49 years
Bankers: The Union.
NOTES-TIPS-RESULTS.
fHE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES* G?
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All yon have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell'’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To exchange vocal score “Arcadians,” “Lilac
Time” or “Chu Chin Chow” for “Merry Widow,”
“Going Up” or “Maid of the Mountains.”—2779.
To buy literature critical of theosophical move-
ment.—2776..
To borrow copies of “The Journal of the Royal
Statistical Society.”—2s99.
Gardener (25), single, exp. flowers and vegetables,
wants position anywhere.—27lo.
To buy Little Blue Book No. 1430, “Shorthand
Self-Taught.”—2732.
Words of “Nine Miles from Gundagai.”—27o9.
Words of old song, “The Lay of Ancient London,”
describing a prize-fight.—276B,
Whereabouts of Florence May Mathews, lately
residing at Cheltenham, Sydney.—2Bl2.
Information Sought.
I want, to enlist in the R. A. Air Force.
Qualifications, and any vacancies? —2772.
No vacancies at present. It is anticipated
that applications will be invited in July or
August, 1938, for cadetships for courses of
dying training to be held in 1934. To be
eligible fpr selection, a candidate must have
passed intermediate or junior, public examina-
tion, including a pass in physics or elemen-
tary sciences, and must be between IS and
22 at time of appointment.
Qualifications required of a candidate for
the office of councillor in Vic.? —2773.
He must have property in the municipal
district of the rateable value of £2O; must
not be an uncertificated or undischarged
bankrupt; must never have been convicted of
felony or perjury or any infamous crime, and
must not hold any office or derive any profit
under or in the gift of the council of any
municipality.
(1) What is the exact height of Mt.
Everest? 1 ash because various authorities
differ. (2) What is the greatest height to
which climbers have ascended? —27so.
(1) Latest estimate of* height is 29,141 ft.
Discrepancies in measurement are accounted
for by the fact that the mountain (or more
likely the ice cap on its summit) is
growing higher. In the early ’forties a very
careful measurement gave 28,100 ft. Two
years later it was 29.000 ft. In 1901. it was
29,002 ft.; in 1917, 29,140 ft. (2 ) 28,230 ft.,
attained by Mallory and Irvine. If they had
tackled the climb in 1840 they would have
conquered the summit.
I am the manager of a suburban grocery
store, 29, single, and I want to take up free-
lance journalism. Where can I get spare-
time training . and what are the chances of
success in this line? —276l.
Freelance journalists are born, not made.
The principal qualifications are a nose for
news, literary facility and experience. The
best way to learn the craft and test, your
aptitude for it at the same time is to pursue
it. \\Vrite, keep on writing, and try to soli
.vour} writings. And remember that though
there 1 ' are freelance journalists in the world
who earn more than suburban grocery
managers, there are many more who don’t,
and who would gladly chuck the game for a
steady job like yours.
(1) What literature is available regard-
ing television? (2) Approximate cost of
equipment? (3) Is it being sold to the
general public in Great Britain? (4) Where
can full particulars be obtained?— 2s67.
(1) Constructional details of a television
receiver were published in the June, July
and August, 1931, issues of the American
"Radio News.” See also “Fundamentals of
Television,” by Benson. (2) Television re-
ceivers are sold in kit form in America from
*50.00 to $70.00, and radiovisor kits at from
$40.00 to $60.00. Complete assembled re-
ceivers, in cabinets, up to $350.00 (3) Yes.
(4) Jenkins Television Corp., Passaic, New
Jersey” Short-wave and Television Corp., 70
Brookline-avenue, Boston, Mass., both
U.S.A.; and Philco Radio and Television
Corp., 1 Argyll-street, London, W.l.
How to make papier mdche suitable for
the manufacture of small articles? —2586.
For common classes of work old waste and
scrap paper is rcpulpod and mixed with' a
strong size of glue and paste. To this very
often are added large quantities of ground
chalk, clay and fine sand, so that the pre-
paration becomes a plaster held together by
the fibrous pulp. For the finest work several
sheets of a specially made paper are soaked
in a strong size of paste and glue, pasting
them together and pressing them in the
mould of the article to be made. The
moulded mass is dried in a stove and hard-
ened by dipping in oil. Processes are fully
described in “English Papier Mfiche,” by
G. Dickinson.
(1) (a) What is the approximate percen-
tage, male and female, of the people of Aus-
tralia? (b) Of Great Britain? (2) (a)
What is the approximate percentage of Aus-
tralians over 60 ? (b) Between 00 and 40?
(c) Between 40 and 20P (d) Between 20
and 10? (e) Between 10 and 1? (f) One
pear and under, not counting those that die
before they are one year 01d? —2716.
(1) (a) Male, 50.8 p.c.; female, 49.2 p.c.
( b ) Male, 48.9 p.c.; female, 51.1 p.c. (2)
(«) 7.7 p.c.; (b) 19.8 p.c.; (c) 32.1 p.c.;
( d) 15.2 p.c.: (e) and (/) are not available
separately. The proportion from 0-10 is 22 p.c.
(1) When was W. M. Hughes admitted
to the Bar? (2) Is he a K.G.? —2729.
(1) 1903. (2) Yes.
(1) Which birds are most useful in de-
stroying garden pests — magpies, seagulls or
spur-wing plovers? (2) Anything on the
debit side? (3) Bar ducks, are any other
birds better for the j0b? —2524.
(1) Seagulls. (2) No, but if you are
thinking of having them as pets it would
be necessary to have a permit; they are pro-
tected. And they would need to have their
wings cut. (3) No.
What, is the abo. word for “child” corres-
ponding to “ piccaninny ” among American
negroes? —27ll.
No single word can be given, for abos.
speak not one language but many. In the
language of the Kamal-arai tribe a little
child is “waggai”; a baby, “widyalang”; a
child, size and age not specified, “boori’;
children, '“gullingo-bangboor.” Other tribes
whose nortienclature has been classified have
a similar variety of terminology.
Recipe for a reliable spray to destroy mos-
quitoes?—233o.
One pound pyrethrum powder, 1 gallon
kerosene; mix together, shake well and leave
standing overnight. Strain through fine
muslin, then add 3oz. of methyl salicylate.
Keep well corked.
What is a Calcutta sweep, and how does
it work? —2641.
A form of lottex’y usually conducted on a
horse race. As many subscriptions as may
be required are obtained, and the horses
starting in the race are balloted for by the
subscribers. The horses are then put up to
auction. Half the money bid for each
goes to the man who drew him in the ballot,
and the other half goes to swell the lottery
fund. When the race is over the purchaser
of the winning horse at the auction (or the
drawer if he has elected to bid, and his bid
has been successful) takes the pool. If so
arranged, the pool may be proportionately
divided among the buyers of the first three
horses. Calcutta sweeps have been illegal
in Australia for many years.
(1) Value of lid. Papuan stamp of the
Mullett print, surcharged 2d. ? (2) Are they
likely to become rare? (3) Have Papuan
3d. air-mail stamps overprinted with a red
aeroplane been printed also on the Harrison
mark? —2541.
(1) 9d. or Is. (2) It will rise in value,
but will never be a rarity. (3) No.
(1) Quantity and value of gramophone
records imported into Australia? (2)
Quantity and value of gramophone records
manufactured in Australia?— 23o9.
(1) 1929-30. £29,159; 1930-31, £12,306;
1931-32, £8,126. Quantities not available.
(2) Value, 1930-31, £258,710. Quantities not
wholly available. For N. S. Wales the out-
put was: 1928-29, 5,905.619. valued at
£450,173; 1929-30. 4,238,225, £310,251;
1930-31, 2,576,586, £208,569.
Is there a genuine market for short
stories? One of my friends wishes to learn
through a correspondence school. —2635.
The market for short stories of high merit
is as good as it ever was, and writers of
outstanding talent have no difficulty in plac-
ing their work. But short-story writing—
and the making of fiction generally—isn’t
like plumbing or bricklaying, offering a fair
chance of a living to every journeyman. It
requires special qualities. The writers of
the short story who have acquired a world-
wide reputation can be counted on one’s
fingers. No system of training can mass-
produce Kiplings and O. Henrys, though a
correspondence course in short-story writing
may be useful.
(1) What Papuan stamps have been
printed on “ Crown C of A” paper? (2)
Will the remaining values of this issue be
printed on this paper? (3) Has any other
paper been used for the 9 d. and Is. 3d.
rallies? (4) Has this paper been used for
printing the Commonwealth stamps? —247s.
(1) Ninepence and Is. 3d. ordinary, and
OS. (2) Probably not, in view of the new
pictorial issue about to appear. . (3) No.
(4) Georgians: Id., 2d. and 5d.; and the
Is. 4d. has also been reported. Kangaroos:
6d., 9d. and 10s. Bridge issue, 2d., surface
printed. Some of these values have appeared
over-printed “OS.”
(1) What was the total cost per year
(before Mr. Lang reduced it), of N.S.W.
Main Roads Board, for offices, staff and
equipment? (2) The total amount spent on
road construction? (3) How much of that
amount was contributed by motor taxation?
—2256.
(1) Administrative expenses: 1925-26,
£23,856: 1926-27, £41,085: 1927-28, £59,418:
1928- £9O,S3S; 1929-30, £97,167: and
1930-31, £83,945. (2) Total expenditure:
1925-26, £1,562,842; 1926-27, £2,671,095;
1927-28, £3,365,601; 1928-29, £4,014,142;
1929- £4,606.835; and 1930-31, £2,915,236.
(3) Revenue from motor taxation: 1925-26,
£1,473,000: 1926-27, £565.000; 1927-28,
£1.337,000; 1928-29, £1,556,000; 1929-30,
£1,527,000; and 1930-31, £1,258,584.
I have a postage stamp showing a schooner
surrounded by a rectangular frame, bearing
the words “Central Pacific Cocoanut Planta-
tions, Ltd. Mail Boat Service, Christman
Island.” In what circumstances was it
issued, and what is it worth? —24Bs.
Christmas Island was leased to the co.,
which arranged for the dispatch of mails
from the island. The stamp was issued by
the co. to frank letters to the first port of
call. It was necessary to restamp the
letters to carry them to their respective des-
tinations. These locals, like those of the
New Hebrides Co. and Great Barrier Pigeon-
gram Agency, are not catalogued by Gibbons.
(1) Have any great musicians been of
Scottish birth or descent? (2) Of Irish
birth or descent? —2443.
(1) Vincent Wallace and E. A. Mac-
Dowell could claim Scottish descent. The
former was born in Ireland and the latter
in New York. Donizetti was partly of Scot-
tish descent, and so was Ole Bull, the
famous violinist, though the one was reared
in Italy and the other in Sweden. (2)
Michael Balfe and John Field were both Irish
and both born in Dublin. Arthur Sullivan
was born in London, but his father hailed
from Cork.
(1) How many Londons are there in the
world. (2) How many Londonderrys? —
2448.
(1) Three: the capital of England; a
city in Ontario, Canada (this is in the
county of Middlesex and boasts a River
Thames), and a city in Connecticut
(U.S.A.). (2) Five: the Irish one; two
towns in Pennsylvania, one in New Hamp-
shire and one in Ohio (U.S.A.). Also there
used to be a parish of that name near
Sydney.
Recipe for making black ink? —2l9s.
Take loz. powdered borax and 2oz. bruised
shellac; boil in 18oz. rain-water in a covered
boiler, stirring occasionally until dissolved.
When cold, strain through muslin and add
finely-powdered indigo and lampblack. Leave
standing for a few hours for the coarse
particles to sink; then pour off the liquid
from the sediment and bottle for use. it
would probably cost you less to buy a
much better ink ready-made.
What is the authentic historical version of
the diamond necklace affair in which Marie
Antoinette was involved? —2ls6.
The necklace was made for Louis XV.,
who intended it as a present for Madamo
du Barry. Louis died before the necklace was
completed, and its price (1,600,000 livres)
was beyond the reach of any subject.
Cardinal de Rohan was told by an adven-
turess, calling herself Comtesse de Lamotte-
Valois, that Marie Antoinette had expressed
a desire for the necklace, and, anxious to
reinstate himself at Court, bought it on
credit. De Lamotte arranged that he should
have an interview with a girl named d’Oliva,
who impersonated the Queen, accorded him
pardon for past offences and promised to
pay for the necklace in instalments if he
would act as security. Immediately on
securing the necklace De Lamotte and her
husband went abroad and sold the diamonds
separately. When the first instalment
became due the jeweller went to the Queen
and the swindle was exposed. De Rohan
and ,the girl Oliva were sent to the Bastille,
but acquitted after a sensational trial. De
Lamotte and her ' husband were captured,
the former branded as a thief, and the latter
sent to the galleys for life. There was a
strong suspicion that the Queen and De
Rohan w 7 ere not as innocent in the matter
as they appeared—-one of the factors in
Marie’s unpopularity.
(3) What does the spark across a spark-
plug consist of? (2) If it consists of elec-
trons what is the difference between a
discharge of 60 and 600 volts?- —2699.
(1) When a potential difference is
applied to the electrodes of a spark gap, a
displacement of electrons towards the posi-
tive electrode takes place in the atoms of
the gaseous medium between the electrodes.
The air becomes conductive, aided somewdiat
by the vaporisation of the metal of the elec-
trodes, which are heated by the bombard-
ment of electrons and positive ions. (2)
There is no fundamental difference between
sparks produced by various differences of
potential, but the convection current across
the gap increases as the applied potential
increases. Furthermore, the distance between
the two electrodes may be lengthened as the
applied potential is increased, as this higher
potential will break down the greater air
resistance.
Does Anybody Know?
How to make a rabbit-decoy whistle?—
2659.
Brief Answers.
11.C.M.: Estlaile and Co., Hunter-street,
Sydney. .. .Huija: It’s a pretty costly business; better
burn them... .G.D.MacD.: Demand a detailed bill
showing items of cost. If unsatisfactory, write to
the Taxing Officer, Prothonotary's Department,
Supreme Court, Sydney, and ask to be advised as to
the steps necessary to bring the matter before him.
. ...H.T.A.: Wildridge and Sinclair, 97 Pitt-street,
Sydney, could give you a quotation W.A.0.: Ther-
is a market for it. Get in touch with W. D.
Moore and Co., Perth. .. .R.C.: You can fish any-
where in the river, but you mustn’t trespass on
private property... .A. G.: A petition to the Governor
to alter the boundaries of a N. S. Wales shire must
be signed by 50 electors. Possibly the shires con-
cerned could be induced to agree to the transfer.
. ...J.C.S.: Most of the leading correspondence
schools have courses in story-writing. Try the I.C.S.
. ... W.S.: (l) (2) and (4) Not necessary. (3) To
the editor... .M.E.8.: 1100 ft. per second....
A.V.8.: Send a 101 b. sample to Sydney Tech-
nological Museum J.E.A.: See reply to 2034,
M.O.L. page, October 19 F.W.: Sydney dis-
tributors state that the Sutherland switch
can be used on the 1928 Chevrolet with entire satis-
faction .... W.E.T.: Reynolds, Rowe-street, Sydney.
... Bill: Apply to Registrar in Divorce, Prothonotary’s
Department, Supreme Court, Sydney. If you are
without means and can show good grounds, you
can sue in forma pauperis.... J.E.8.: It has been
held that such conduct may be construed as deser-
tion, constituting a ground for divorce, but it is a
difficult matter -to prove P.W.: Not illegal, but
he ought to retire while the matter is discussed....
H.H.: £4 7s. 6d. per week as from August 26
last... .H.A.C.: (1) Books and magazines from
U.S.A. are subject to primage duty 10 p.c. and
sales tax 6 p.c., the latter based on invoiced value
of goods, plus primage duty, plus an assumed profit
of 20 p.c. (2) Depends on the form in which pay-
ment is made. If you have a bank account and
payment is made in negotiable form, the bank
probably will allow you the advantage of current
rate of exchange C.A.S.: In N. S. Wales any
person who “grows or cultivates upon any land or
premises any prickly pear” is liable to a penalty'
of £2O. Direct your tenant’s attention to this
fact and call on him to destroy the pest. He is
primarily' liable, but should he vacate the land the
responsibility of eradicating it would fall on you.
. ...C.8.: In the case of an indictable offence the
offender is arrested, brought before a magistrate
and committed for trial, On trial before a Judge, a
jury is empanelled and members may be challenged.
The jury is sworn in and the indictment read, the
accused being called upon to plead. If he pleads
“not guilty,” counsel for prosecution opens his case
and calls and examines his witnesses, who may then
be cross-examined and re-examined; counsel for
defence opens his case and examines his witnesses, who
may then be cross-examined and re-examined; counsel
for defence sums up his case; other counsel replies;
Judge sums up, jury retires and returns with verdict.
Judge then pronounces sentence... .C.R.: (1) Each
case is dealt with on its merits. As a general rule, no
action is taken against an unemployed purchaser. (2)
If the contract is cancelled, his interest in the pro-
perty is extinguished. (3) N 0... .G.M.R.: (1) (2) and
(3) No. (4) and (5) Yes, (6) The deeds must be
held on behalf of all the joint tenants, either by
their solicitor or by on e of them C.F.: Write to
the Assistant Paymaster-General, Whitehall, S.W.I,
London, and furnish him with all the particulars in
your possession. Copy of the will, if made in Eng-
land, could be obtained from the General Register
Office, Somerset House, London, W.C.2, on payment
of fees determined by length. There are “Unclaimed
Money and Next-of-liin” agencies through which you
might be able to trace the testator. .. .W.F.P.:
Write to the Registrar General, Hobart, Tasmania,
for particulars and state reason for inquiry.... S.S.:
If the premises were let or leased both on June
30, 1930 and Oct. 9, 1931, the higher of the two
rentals should have been reduced by 221 per cent.
Assuming the rental on June 30, 1930 to have been
£2, the present rent should be 31s J.8.T.: Write
to the British Consulate in Chicago, and ask that
your communication be placed in the hands of the
local department dealing with such matters... .J. 8.:
Write to the Registrar General, Law Courts, Belfast,
Northern Ireland, giving all the information known
to you, and ask if he can assist.. . .J.T.8.: The
Council is within its rights. Write to it explaining
your contention.. . .D.A.S.C.: No information avail
able A.D.G.: (1) The right and left, one after
the other, a blow to the body twisting the arm
inward as contact is made, and an under and over
semi-circular swing employed in clinches. (2) There
are no local books to recommend. Jimmy Wilde’s
book on boxing is one of the best and most practical.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. will give you a list.... L.M.:
The W.A. Sandalwood Act 1929, provides that not
more than 10 p.c. of the total export of sandalwood
shall come from private property. Removal of
sandalwood from private property is illegal except
under a permit. Apply to the Forests Dept., Perth.
. ...J.C.L.: “Prospecting for Gold,” by lon L.
Idriess... .L.M.K.: Particulars too vague. Would
have to know Christian names and town. .. .E.A.P. :
Write Lyster Ormsby, Leigh House, Castlereagh-street,
•Sydney G.H.G.: Communicate with the Industrial
Registrar, Dept, of Labor and Industry, and the
Deputy Registrar, Federal Arbitration Court—both
Sydney... .A. 8.: Write Sec. Naval Board, Defence
Dept., Melbourne... .M.M.D.: The starting price was
20 to 1 S.H.W.: (1) There is a minimum width
of 65 metres between Port Said and the Bitter Lakes
and of 75 metres between the Bitter Lakes and
Suez, increasing on curves to 80 metres. (2) See
article on the subject in “Encyclopedia Britanniea.”
....8.8.C.: Write to promoters... .H.M. A.: See
“Little Theatre Organisation and Management”....
8.D.: Send specimens... .P.F.8.: Interest from bonds
converted under the Commonwealth Debt Conversion
Act, No. 18 of 1931, is not subject to Federal
special tax as from date of conversion... .D.M.D.:
Write Basement Bookshop, George-street, Sydney.. ..
(Many others mailed.)


HtSTLE’ s
***-•
MVtlfcMY n 1
• • •
The sportsman’s drink
Invigorating!
There’s new energy in this delicious drink . . . full of the
rich nutriment of pure malt and full-cream milk.
A daily glass of Nestle’s Malted Milk ensures perfect
physical fitness . . . always.
■w
NESTLES MALTED MILK
808 COPYRIGHT
Buy the best I
Australian
made
Super
Quality
ffi
ft
f
Easy rolled—
no better sold
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Liberal captured the Victoria Derby in
a style that left no doubt as to his superior-
ity over Sydney, Maoriland and local rivals,
Peter Pan excepted. Kuvera, when he
stumbled and unseated Maurice McCarten
after entering the straight, caused interfer-
ence to Oro. Oro’s rider Dempsey asserted
that his mount would have won but for
this occurrence; it is highly improbable.
Jack King, who trains the chestnut, also
started Turbine. He had expressed indig-
nation at sporting writers representing that
Turbine’s mission -was to make the pace,
asserting that Oro, if urged, could sprint
as fast as any other three-year-old, and needed
no pacemaker. However, Bob Lewis tried to
steal the race, as Delaney did the V.R.C. St.
Legcr of 1896 on Humphrey Oxenham’s
Cabin Boy, whose stable-mate, Waterfall,
was supposed to be the only danger to
Wallace.
Turbine shot his bolt half a mile from
home. Dempsey had allowed Oro to remain
at the rear of the field for most of the jour-
ney, but when Gaine Carrington, Kuvera
and Top Hole closed on the leader forward
moves also were made by Liberal and Oro.
At the liome turn, according to Dempsey, he
had trouble m keeping Oro off the heels of
Liberal, so well was he travelling. Then
came the accident. Oro, trying to evade
the stumbling Kuvera, collided with another
horse, and when McCarten was bumped off the
saddle Oro (again according to his jockey)
kicked McCarten along the turf for 12 or
15 yards. “The only stayer in the race,”
says Dempsey; “a good thing beaten.” Frank
concedes that Oro may have sprinting
ability, but argues that if driven along at
the beginning of a long journey he would
Bert • Theres Another out?
"How was he out ?"
Bert l* He placed himself out''
G*brt : 4 'Qh, isthact Hobbs?*
lack the capacity to come home satisfac-
tonly. Naturally, these notes were penned
before the Melbourne Cup. Dempsey re-
garded Oro as a good thing for that race
and longed to ride him, but was afraid he
would have to stick to the engagement to
pilot Induna.
‘. . * ‘
The Derby favoritism of Game Carring-
ton was surprising, in view of his failure in
the Randwick classic and his subsequent
downfall in the Craven Plate. Owners of
the Hunting Song colt are reputed to be
small bettors. Then whence came the money
piled on Gaiue Carrington? Liberal’s closing
price was 5 to 1, but many punters got
better odds. This Derby excited more ante-
post speculation than any for a decade.
The Maoriland colt had everything in his
favor during the contest, but Liberal wore
him down with remorseless determination,
and scored, running away, by three lengths,
Top Hole was a fair third. .
The absorbing topic of conversation at
Flemington 0 n Saturday was whether Peter
Pan or Liberal was the best three-year-old
on the course. Peter Pan, not having been
entered for the Derby, had to take on the
Melbourne Stakes as a preliminary to com-
peting in the Melbourne Cup. First money
in the Melbourne Stakes was only £525;
the Derby added £2BOO to Liberal’s turf
earnings. The fact of Middle Watch mak-
ing the running and of the 1J miles occupy-
ing 2min. SJsec. shows what a muddling
pace was set in the Stakes. Peter Pan’s
effort over the last three furlongs was the
redeeming feature from a spectacular stand-
point. With Duncan as pilot, Frank
McGrath’s young thoroughbred did not
repeat his Caulfield Cup behavior of loafing,
although he was a considerable distance
from the leaden at the end of half a mile,
Duncar had established good relations with
his mount by the time they headed for home,
and the fashion in which Peter Pan cut down
Rogilla and Middle Watch caused him to
become a pronounced favorite for the Mel-
bourne Cup. Nevertheless, Rogilla’s backers
were not discouraged, and Middle Watch’s
supporters remembered the old saw, “Third
in the Melbourne Stakes, first in the Cup.”
Frank McGrath was far more excited over
the Cantala Stakes victory of Denis Boy
than he had been when Peter Pan overcame
his weight-for-age opponents. Twelve
months ago Denis Boy landed the Caulfield
Cup, and, carrying Bst., ran . second to Der-
mid (7st. 31b.) in the Cantala Stakes. On
Saturday the burden of Denis Boy was 9st.
lib., and punters allowed him to ; go out at
14 to 1. Jack Donohoe feared that Dermid
had fallen away in fitness since the Caul-
field Cup, and regarded Chatham as un-
beatable. The ringmen would not offer
better than evens against Blair’s stallion,
but Chatham just missed a place, the prize-
money going to Denis Boy, Winooka and
Dermid. Winooka led to the half-distance,
where Denis Boy, with an overpowering
burst of speed, gained absolute mastery.
George Price’s Night Raid colt Blixten
was favorite (7 to 1) for the Maribyrnong
Plate, but went out only a point better than
Prestige, whom J. T. Jamieson apparently
preferred to Limarch. Both Prestige and
Limarch are by Limond, the sire of Lim-
erick, Yeilmond and Ammon Ra. Spoils of
victory went to Rapsonia (10 to 1), who beat
Blixten by half a length. Prestige finished
far back in the field. Curialis, the sire of
Rapsonia, is in the Seymour stud of A. G.
Hunter, who owns Liberal. He is by Spion
Kop from Curia, by Cicero from Sceptre.
With Curialis and Windbag in his stud.
Hunter is a fortunate fellow.
. For the remaining days of the meeting:—
Maiden Plate: Jimmie Boy; next. Metal-
lurgy.
Linlithgow Stakes: Chatham; next, Der-
mid.
Oaks: Protea ; next, Segati.
Batman Sttkes; Kuvera; next, Vauntry.
“Centurion”: Derby day drew 37.000
people to Flemington as compared with 27,000
last year, and the machines recorded a turn-
over of £47.288 as against £31,495. The
win and place totes have caught on well in
Melbourne and the ss. unit has been a big
factor in their success. A reduction to ss.
is overdue at Randwick, and it is more than
time the A.J.C. forced the “up-the-line” clubs
which still persist with the 60-20-20 system
to fall into line. Another innovation which
would add tremendously to the popularity
of tote betting in N.S.W. and Victoria is
a doubles tote. This has proved a great
success in Westralia and South Australia
and is to be adopted in Queensland,
,* * * *
No moaning was heard from MeShort-
odds at Canterbury Park on Saturday,
Results were greatly in his favor, and First
Balloon, a four-year-old mare by Air Bal-
loon—Princess Well, who led from begin-
ning to end of the Maiden Handicap, was
almost a skinner for him. The ring price
was alleged to be 14 to 1, but the tote paid
£l2 6s. for 10s., and there were two other
dividends. Also there was a bit more money
about than at the corresponding meeting
last year. But it comes in small parcels
nowadays. Gone is the spectacle of licensed
louts waving the small punter away, and
drawing the maximum of attention to be-
wildered offenders by shouting at the top of
their voices “No ten bobs.” Some of these
gentry are glad to take five bobs nowadays,
and even three bob is not despised,
- • '
There were cries of “Rub ’em out!” after
the Flying Handicap, in which Promptitude
(15 to 1) showed strikingly improved form,
His running at Moorefield had been inquired
into by the stewards, but the only action
they took on this occasion was to iuvesti-
gate the pronounced interference with
N.E.F., the favorite, who dropped back sud-
denly after leading into the straight. They
found that Promptitude had squeezed Orpah
the second horse, who had come in on
N.E.F., but decided there was no case for
taking the race away from the outsider; in
any event, N.E.F. had finished out of a place.
The Canterbury Handicap, the least un-
important race of a meeting at which it
is doubtful whether there was even a second-
rater among the starters, furnished the most
exciting finish, Fair Money (8 to 1) and
the two favorites, Dalmatic and Trenette,
passing the judge’s box almost in line, with
Flinders and Wallace Mimi close up. The
judge’s verdict was for Fair Money by a
half-head, with Dalmatic the same margin
behind Trenette. Fair Money is notorious
for bad manners at the barrier, but he be-
haved himself fairly well on this occasion.
So did Dord Ivennaquhair, who, threatened
with relegation to the provinces (the A.J.C.
starter reported that lie had had enough
of the chestnut), but given another chance,
went kindly for T. Webster and made all the
running in the Campsie Handicap. He was
3 to 1 in a field of 7; Servius (10 to 1) was
a fair second. He also likes to be out in
front, but Lord Kennaquhair—an eight-
year-old now—anticipated him.
* * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday :—•
Maiden Handicap: Forestry.
Clyde Handicap: Tilt; next, Wanderlust.
November Handicap: Circus Star; next,
Phlare.
Trial Stakes : Orpah.
Rydalmere Mile: Carat; next, Workman.
* * * *
“Thormanby” : The Cesarewitch and the
Cambridgeshire nearly always yield English
bookmakers a great harvest. McShortodds
was apprehensive when a 10-to-l chance,
Nifsichin, got away with the Cesarewitch.
His spirits revived when Pullover took the
Cambridgeshire. A three-year-old filly, she
went out at 100 to 1, as did the third horse,
Pharaoh. The tote paid 121 to 1. A special
tote pool is run at Newmarket on the two
races. Only one man struck the double ; he
gathered in £1775 for 10s. When are we
going to have a doubles tote at Flemington
and Randwick?
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Stribling’s last “fight” at the Sydney
Stadium was a confused affair. Il’is oppo-
nont wos Johnny Freeman, and they did so
much hugging that referee Barling repeatedly
ordered them to box and break clean Then
otnblinff varied the monotony of hitting
h arguing with the third man.
+ -^be II e:na<ed the eighth round, he
started what looked like being an all-in
battle. The scrappers would not be pulled
apart, and the referee, throwing both hands
skywards, declared it “no contest.” After
hooting Stribling till its throat was sore the
small crowd melted out into the night.
* * * *
«n >». Am™ mu i
. . After his with Palmer Strib-
ling announced that when Frankie Wine
arrived Australians would have the privi-
lege of seeing the ring methods of a couple
of American topnotchers. “We use what
you call ‘bung rules,’ ” he said with’ a laugh,
Sydneyites have been watching these
methods with growing contempt ever since,
Anything more painful than a good, hard
push makes one of these - U.S.A. heavies,
with the exception of the dauntless Chas-
tain, go into a clinch and try to foul his
adversary into inaction, or, that failing, get
disqualified. No wonder the N.S.C. houses
for all the Yanks, barring Chastain, have
been poor. _ It happened all over again on
Saturday night. Stribling managed to drape
a punch on Freeman’s chin in the first, but
it didn’t out the recipient,—only made him
nasty. So for the rest of the fight the
alleged killer from Georgia back-moved,
rabbit-punched, kidney-punched, hit with the
side of his gloves and claimed—above all,
claimed. So, to an extent, did Freeman,
After the referee told the older Stribling
that his offspring would be disqualified un-
less he stopped holding and hitting, both
members of the family replied that nothing
would please them better than to have the
affair declared off. All present agreed with
Barling’s decision, except those who thought
Freeman should have had it on a foul or
a couple of dozen of them,
* * * ‘
Royce McGrath, a husky young welter-
weight from Wagga, furnished a surprise at
Leichhardt by stopping Wally Plancock in
eight rounds. Hancock, following prece-
dent, went into reverse right away,, but
McGrath caught him with a couple ot stilt
punches in the third round, and in the sixth
nearly scored a knockdown with a neat right-
cross. Hancock then tried to emulate the
ivy., He was thrice upset by vicious rights
* n the eighth, and was on the floor for the
fourth time when the referee pointed to
McGrath. Hancock was just back irom
Perth, beat all-comers.
„ . _ ", . , , .’ , ,
~ E J^ as ’ champion, ha
fight of his i° r tbe against Le.
, at and was lucky to get. the
referees verdict. Terns attacked most o
the t lme ’ and had Evans rocky m the 15tb
roun< b ;!; # ;|!
„ , ,
, Queenslanders found compensation Tor the
failure Eddl ? Gllbert agaiast Via^ ia ™
);j ie s P ec taculai success of Lon Richards,
the abo. cruiser-weight, who in his latest
iaiU at Brisbane settled Jimmy Pearce, of
Newcastle, in a third of a round. A per-
feet right cross to the chin did ' the trick.
Richards weighed list. 111 b. In Brisbane
or Sydney he would draw £2OOO in a match
with Palmer.
* * * *
Bonny Muir (14st. 71b.), son of a Collins-
street dentist, accounted for Bull Montana
(«st. 31b.), the American wrestler and
movie-actor in a grannlino- match at Mel-
bourne Amidst cries of “Good ofd Mel-
boarne‘ Grammar” (he° f studied at that
institution, but not wrestling), Muir back-
framed Montana in the fifth round. “Bull”
was r . lr Hed o-entlv tn hi* dressing-mom
* d gently t 0 bls essm S ro ® m '
r,„ Mon ? y was turned away when Walter
Ib o T wl . liag aad L ™ch bad th eir return match
at Eei ch h ardt After six rounds of mediocre
mat '^ ol ' k ’ a draw was declared Lunch
exhibited spasms of showmanship, while
Browning stuck to straight stuff; but neither
able to score a tall.^
“Mitt ShovCr”: Australian boxing entliu-
siasts of an early day will remember Dan
Hickey, whose death in America is reported,
He left Australia with Bob Fitzsimmons, and
was in Fitz’s corner when the Maoriland-
Cornisher beat Corbett. In later days Hickey
made a big name in the States as a trainer
and manager of boxers, many prominent pugs
passing through his hands
I nQ --J Onto
ns ana . ts
The Combined Australian team made a
P°°r showing against the Englishmen at
Perth. Batting on Thursday and till late
on Friday, the tourists had 7 down for 583;
then the innings was closed. Sutcliffe
(169), Pataudi (129) and Jardine (98)
were the chief scorers. Rain on Friday
night was followed by a hot sun, and the
Australians collapsed before the Yorkshire
lefthander Verity, wh 0 had a wicket made
to order for him. He took 7 for 37. Fingle-
ton (29 and 53 n. 0.) and McCabe (43) were
the pick of the Australian batting. Brad-
man went for 3 and 10 in the two innings,
the first of which ended for 159, while in the
second 4 were out for 139 when stumps and
the match were drawn,
**‘ * *
At Brisbane, in the first Sheffield Shield
match of the season, the Victorian bowlers
played havoc with the Queensland batsmen,
and on a good wicket, too. Victoria ran up
552, Darling (185), O’Brien (145 n. 0.) and
Ponsford (98) being the chief contributors;
Darling gave a dashing display. Govan,
the schoolboy googly bowler, made a promis-
lag. if somewhat costly, debut, getting Wood-
full (35), Darling and Rigg for 194. Oxeu-
ham (4 for 95) had the best Bananaland
average. Fleetwood-Smith (6 for 22) and
Ironmonger (4 for 9) sent back the home
> s hle for 54. Queensland did a little better
the second time, but was beaten by an
innings and 300-odd runs.
( Continued, on next page.)


n, ltl
"in
x„
•
m a
"'ll.
as;
"mi,
ft
lisSs;
"""""'mini,,
OS
m
as
v«
DOUBLE-TOUCH
• The Perdriau Tyre with its tough, triangle-tread
has always been a high-grade tyre. This is proved
beyond doubt by thousands of letters received from
satisfied users. But, good as the Perdriau has been
in the past, it is now even better because of a new,
double-triangle tread of double-compressed rubber.
In short, it is the same tyre that has made the name
Perdriau famous plus a new tread into which greater
mileage has been built.
H. & D. Mcßae
CUSTOMS
AND
CARTAGE CONTRACTORS
All ordora punctually ottcndad to
Nauca. and with no,
i B 3833 Ctl\a
Telephone! ■ B 3123 Oftic.
' L 1534 Void
(''fzrtpft rtc/c it‘ /l
n-nc/ fPeat.
23.8.32
f/-ncy, t
*92
Messrs Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd..
Wentworth Avenue. SYDNEY.
Dear Sirs,
We do not as arule pass out compliments,but we do feel
that it is up to us.at this stage to congratulate you on your lat-
-est construction tyres.(those marked two triangles), and your ser-
vice.
Our fleet of cars and trucks do upwards of 290.000 mile
per annum and our recording system .(thanks to your representative}
has now shown us a truer value of Perdriau tyres. Many we find have
done over 20,000 miles and some over 25 ,000. which we think is ex-
-cellent considering the nature of our work,as we must maintain a
very strict time schedule.We therefore* cannot afford to take any
risks we must have the best tyres procurable for our business,all
tyres are the same price today,therefore we have every vehicle in
our fleet shod with Perdriau tyres for safety,security and economy.
Being Australians,we recommend to Australians,this
great Australian Tyre.
You are at liberty to make use of the foregoing aa you
■ay think tit.
fours very truly,
H. & D. MCRAE
Look for the
DOUBLE
TRIANGLE
The sign of the
DoubleTouyh Tread
m
'S
L'!
Hiii
m
""nil
/
!!!!!!!!!!! ililg
11
'■••»*ti»n ll(lll| *****
111.,
SHsshSssS
"•'"iim,,,,
SfiSSK
iti.i
PROOFof Perdriau
Service and Mileage /
Perdriau
DOVSLE . .TRIANGLE


MEN!
think of
your health
and comfort
NOW!
is
Camp-Berlei
Farmer’s Camp - Berlei
Physiological Belts for Men
are designed under medical
supervision for the relief
of Visceroptosis (fallen and
protruding abdomen);
Inguinal and Femoral Her-
niae, Sacroiliac strain
(Strained hip joints).
Model No. 86 illustrated em-
bodies an unique lacing adjust-
ment principle which imparts
wonderful support to the back
in cases of Sacroiliac strain.
Sizes: 30"t042". Price: 36/6
Persona! fittings in Tailoring Dept.
First Floor , Market St.
Country customers, write for booklet.
FARMERS
Mail Orders, P.O. Box 497 AA, Sydney
/fc.
y
made in
ENGLAND
•Swan' Pens Black and Coloured from 20/».
•Swan' Minors from 15/-, ‘ Blackbird ’ Pens
from 10/-. 'Swan' Ink from 6d. per bottle.
SWAN
w PENS
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free,
MABIE, TODD & CO.. LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.l,
Factories: London & Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
'A(2)
Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: Matches between English-
men and combined Australian teams are
ijegenerating into a farce. Some years ago
these games were welcomed, since they usu-
ally gave players who had not yet reached
first-class company, a chance to prove them-
selves. Now the difficulty is to get anyone
but hopeless outsiders to figure in the com-
bined teams. Both sides make a point of
holding back their star players, with the
result that interest in them vanishes, the
public rightly refusing to pay to see even
the most famous players pottering about
in picnic cricket, as was the case in the
match in Perth.
❖ * * *
“Bramall Lane”: Some idea of the in-
terest England is taking in the coming Tests
mhy be gained from the offer of London
“Daily Mail” to pay £15,000 for a correct
forecast of the four innings in the first
game in Sydney, beginning on December 2.
If the prize is not. won, £3OOO will be paid
for the correct figures for three innings and
£2OOO if only a couple are correctly tipped.
It is quite on the cards that the “Mail”
will be stung for the big money. With tens of
thousands of entrants, it is astonishing how
many hit on the .right figures. In Sydney
competitions of the kind some years ago the
prizes had to be divided.
* $ $ *
The N.S.W. “Cricket Year-Book” for
1932 maintains its reputation of being the
best publication of its kind outside “Wis-
den.” Details of all last season’s .big games
are set out in full, and N.S.W. club cricket
is also fully chronicled. An innovation is
the inclusion of the portraits of cricketers
and officials who have passed away, notably
W. P. McElhone, father of the Board of
Control. The book reflects the greatest
credit on its compiler, Harold Heydon, sec-
retary of the N.S.W.C.A.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Gaudy cricket raiment was
the rule rather than the exception in the
brave days of old (B. 19/10/’32). I often
wonder what the scribes who write with
SAFETY FIRST.
SKIPPER: “Chuck us a coin to toss with.”
THE MUG: “I suppose this won’t affect my amateur status?”
wearisome reiteration about Jardine’s Har-
lequin cap would say if he turned out in
a quartered shirt of the same colors with
a stripe of them running down the trouser
leg. That was the costume of the original
Harlequins somewhere about the middle
1850’s. One peculiarity of the Harlequins
is that they do not sport a blazer, being
probably unique among cricket clubs of note
in this respect.
*, # *
“Gash Amateur” : Alan Fairfax’s announce-
ment in England that professionalism in
cricket “will shortly be introduced to Austra-
lia” is a trifle belated. As far as Australian
teams in England are concerned, professional-
ism began in 1878, and the practice of paying
players has steadily grown ever since, until
it embraces Sheffield Shield cricket as well
as the engagements with overseas sides. Any
man who accepts money for taking part in
a game or in sport of any kind is a profes-
sional, whatever other name you may like
to call him.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: The Americans are due in
Sydney this week-end and will open against
N.S.W. on November 10. That match will
be followed by the Ma State championships
from November 14 to 19, all the visitors
having entered. In the mixed doubles, Alli-
son will have Joan Hartigan for partner;
another pair will be the Van Ryns, man and
wife. After the Sydney game the team goes
on to Queensland for the first Test and a
match with the State.
* * * *
“Statis”: Some fiend in England has been
figuring out the speed of a tennis ball. He
estimates a bard volley as sending the ball at
a rate of 93 m.p.h. Long ago C. T. B.
Turner, visiting Woolwich Arsenal, bowled
a yorker through the screen used for test-
ing the velocity of projectiles. His figures
were quoted at round about 70 m.p.h., and
C. T. B.’s yorker was about the fastest
thing cricket has seen. That a soft and light
tennis ball should beat that pace is not
easy to believe.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: There has been a lot of
wrangling in Sydney over an umpire’s deci-
sion. A hard-driven ball hit the net and
lodged in the mesh. The ump. gave it a
“let,” the shot to be replayed, and in this
he was supported by a slight majority of his
association when that body discussed the
matter. The ruling is against commonsense.
The ball hit the net below the cord and, but
for the amazing fluke, would have dropped
to the ground, the striker losing the point.
The fact it stuck in the mesh did not
in the least alter the fact that it was a lost
shot.
* * * *
“St. Colombes”: The Davis Cup authori-
ties believe in taking time by the lug. It
has been arranged that the first round ol
the next competition will be played between
Chili and Brazil, the winner to meet Uru-
guay. The Argentine tackles Peru and the
best of the five will meet the winner of the
new Pacific zone in the U.S.A. At present
it looks extremely doubtful if Australia will
be there.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The serangs of the Austra-
lian Tennis Association decided on the allo-
cation of the profits of the Australian cham-
pionships for the coming season at a meet-
ing last week. The championship and re-
serve funds will have the first mte, taking
enough to maintain their balance at xoUO.
Other profits will be divided. The Austra-
lian body will take one-third, as will the
State association —in this. case Victoria-
conducting the championships. If anything
is left after that it is to be whacked up
among the affiliated States.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”: Ivo Whitton, who had
been a bit o ff his game, came back to nor-
mal in Royal Melbourne’s 36-hole scratch
event after a tie with F. L. Bulte, winning
5 up on bogey. Bulte, who had also been
out of form, played capital golf in the morn-
ing round. Whitton set his teeth and went
after him, and pulled up steadily on his
opponent to tie at the 18th. In the play-
off Bulte went to pieces, and there was only
one in it.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The Bettingtons, hus-
band and wife, have had a wonderful run
this season. Mrs. Bettington has won the
Royal Sydney associates’ championship and
the champion-of-champions club title. Her
lord has bagged the Australian and N.S.W.
amateur championships, is. champion of the
Australian club and champion of club cham-
pions. The pair also got away with the
N.S.W. mixed foursomes.
:j! * * *
“Hotham”: Susie Tolhurst played her
best game since returning from England in
the associates’ stroke event at Royal Mel-
bourne. Off scratch she returned a card
of 77 (37 out, 40 in), a course record for
women. In the concurrent handicap she
had an allowance of three strokes, which
brought her into second place.
* * * *
“The McHaggis”: Recent discussions on
the holing-in-one menace remind me that
a player in the U.S.A. is said to have be-
come an addict in this respect. His name
is Washington—Tom, not George—and he
belongs to the Monomonock Club, which is
somewhere in New Jersey. He nicked his
24th in one, and then rebelled to the extent
of insuring himself against, repeating the
performance. For a modest premium, the
company will pay for the festival at the
Nineteenth. The cost of this is not so light
as many would suppose. One individual at
a big Sydney club found the ritual in his
case ran to £5. Feeling brash, he ordered
another round. By this time reinforce-
ments were pouring up to the line, and the
second round cost close on £2O.
* * #
“Koopa”: Your country golfer is inured
to vicissitude, but the experience of a couple
of players in a tournament at Gladstone
(Q.) lately was close to the limit. They
were half-way through a round when tor-
rential rain fell. Playing on, they could
only note where the greens were by the
flags in the submerged holes. When it came
to pitching on to the greens the slight slope
was responsible for a good “head” (as
mining men would say) of water which car-
ried their balls away to lower ground. One
player who pitched on to the upper edge
of a green in the hope that the current
would wash his pill into the cup found him-
self badly left. The ball was carried a
hundred yards downstream, and he took
four to get back to an unflooded spot.
« $ * *
Something new in golf contests will begin
at Orange (N.S.W.) this week-end—a tour-
nament organised by returned-soldier players
in the Western Districts and open to all
ex-servicemen. The Diggers’ Cup is to be
played for annually. It is a 36-hole stroke
handicap, and the winner, while holding the
cup for a year, will receive a miniature
replica. Special excursion fares have been
arranged for visitors.
* He *
“Shirley”: The 1933 contest for the Kirk-
Windeyer Cup will come off in Auckland at
Easter while the provincial championship
meeting is being held. This will be the
sixth match for the trophy. The touring
side for Auckland will probably be confined
to N.S.W. players.
H» sj? ij{
“Hoylake”: The U.S.A. amateur golf
championship has gone out of the country
for the first time since an Englishman,
Harold Hilton, won it in 1911—to Ross
Somerville, a Canadian, who beat Johnny
Goodman, an ex-caddie, by 2 and 1 in the 36-
hole final. Goodman, who was turned down
by the American selectors of the Walker Cup
team, must be rather an alarming person,
for, alluding to the “snobbery” of the selec-
tors, the press says it is “because of the
neckties he wears and his thorough demo-
cratic qualities,” a description which almost
paints a portrait.
Car and Cycle
S. F. Edge, one of the kings of the
British motoring trade, is expected in Aus-
tralia shortly. He was born in Sydney in
1868, but went with his people to England
as a child. He made a great name as a
cyclist, and later became one of the first.
Britons to take up motoring as a sport and
a business. In association with David Napier
h’e launched the “Napier Six,” for long one
of the finest cars turned out by English
workshops, and his firm’s cars and trucks
have been known in Australia for over a
generation. Among his racing successes was
the Gordon Bennett Cup for 1902 in a Dun-
lop-shod Napier, and two years later he drove
1582 miles in 24 hours, a world’s record that
stood for years.
* * * :i:
“Formula”: One of the most interesting
trophies for car-racing is the Wilson Cup.
offered twenty years ago by a cousin of the
late President Wilson for the first stock-
model touring car which could hit up 60
m.p.h. over a measured mile. Many motor-
ists had a shy at it, but none turned the
trick in three years of endeavor. Then the
donor withdrew the pot, which now graces
the family sideboard. To-day even the little
baby racing cars can top the 100 m.p.h.
rate, and there must be dozens of makes of
touring models which can easily beat 60
given a fair run.
* * * *
“Exhaust”: Dirt-track motor-cycling seems
likely to boom this season. Eight English
riders are on the water, bound for Australia,
and a ninth is flying out. On the Bendigo'
which is bringing the tourists, is also a strong
returning Australian contingent, including
Huxley and other champions, and several
English freelances. The English team will
show in all the States, and the programme
will include a series of matches against Aus-
tralia. The last series, ridden in England,
was won by the home side.
* * * si:
“Kick Starter” : The Autocycle Union of
N.S.W. has decided on a policy of decen-
tralisation. Under the present rules all
country clubs must affiliate direct with the
Sydney body, but it is proposed to delegate
powers to local centres, and hand back por-
tion of the revenue received from them.
Newcastle' and Maitland districts will be
the first to come under the new arrange-
ment.
* * * *
“Whizz” : Though the British cricket bar-
racker is described by his country’s press as
only a little lower than the angels, some of
the gents.—and ladies —who attend dirt-track
motor-cycle racing are different. There was
a big match at Stamford Bridge between a
team of Wembley gladiators and a local
combination. Wembley got the better of it,
and the crowd signified disapproval by throw-
ing bottles and similar trifles at the winners,
following this up with a concerted attack on
some of the riders. Wembley had to stay in
the dressing-rooms for an hour before the
officials and the police gave the all-clear
signal.
Miscellaneous
“Green Checquer”: Homer-pigeon owners
in Victoria seem born to trouble. Not long
ago there was a ruinous loss of birds on a
long flight, and now racing has been banned
for six months throughout the Common-
wealth because of an outbreak of the New-
castle disease among poultry in Melbourne.
’J’bough pigeons do not seem to be affected,
it is quite possible for them to carry the
germs to other centres and States.
He H* # H*
“Bandilore”: Yo-Yo is a very old game
revived under a new name. It consists in
the manipulation of a bobbin with a string
attached, the bobbin being unrolled from
the string and made to roll itself up again.
Skilful players have invented infinite varia-
tions. A great tourney was recently held in
London, 7000 entrants being narrowed down
to 100. The winner was a youth named
Everit. He has now to meet the “world’s
champion,” a 14-year-old Chinese from
Canada.
Hs # H« HJ
“Hi-li”: Pelota. the Basque game, is to be
introduced into England. It is a variant of
tennis proper, and is played on a court
200 ft. by 35ft. enclosed by cemented walls.
Four players take part, and as in tennis
the game consists in playing the ball to the
walls. The outstanding feature is the cesta,
a weird-looking, curved contraption, about
3ft. long, made of basket work and open
along the upper surface. The player’s hand
fits into a grip at one end. The ball is
caught in this and returned with tremendous
force. Pelota is one of the hardest games
in the world, and is a great gambling
medium, bets being laid on any one of the
40 points which have to be scored. Experts
are being imported by the company formed
to teach the Briton how to play it.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Most billiard-players would
consider snooker an ideal game for practis-
ing potting, in which many otherwise good
players are weak. But in England snooker
is not popular, and a form of the game
called potting billiards has been devised. The
three balls are placed on the billiard, pyra-
mid and centre spots in any order. Any
ball may be potted with either of the others
into any pocket, provided this is not used
twice running. Pocketed balls go back to
the billiard, pyramid and centre spots accord-
ing to which of these are unoccupied. A pot
counts one point, and the player continues
until he misses. In case of an in-off or foul,
any pocketed ball is spotted, and the others
are left where they are, or all the balls are
re-spotted. The choice is left to the follow-
ing player. It doesn’t sound very exciting,
but someone might like to try it.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAVMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ..... BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through *he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
the SCENIC
PLAYGROUND
of the PACIFIC
Here—in this fascinating land—lie deep-sea fishing
grounds, lakes and rivers teeming with trout, thermal valleys
with their spouting geysers and boiling pools, Maori "pahs,"
mountain chateaux, beautiful sounds, fiords, glaciers and
mountain peaks—all within a few days' travel of each other.
Write for complete information, suggested
tours, fares, etc.
LETTER OF CREDIT TOURS.
Genuine tourist visitors can obtain
travel tickets, accommodation, etc.* at
will in New Zealand, AND SAVE
EXCHANGE by booking with any N.Z.
Govt. Tourist Bureau in Australia.
N.Z. Government Tourist Bureau,
Box 365 F, Martin Place, Sydney,
and at 59 William Street, Melbourne.
Please send me illustrated leaflets
and full details of a holiday in New
Zealand.
NAME
ADDRESS «L
where you want ft/
and when you want it !
A plentiful supply of water at convenient points is invalu-
able to the man on the land. Here are two Pumps often
used for that purpose.
"Acme”
Lift & Force Pumps
Splendid Pumps for all-round use on the
land—general pumping, spraying, irriga-
tion, Filing tanks, fire fighting, etc.
A long handle and cog-
gear give great leverage,
making operation much
easier.
The “Acme” will give an
output of approximately
1600 gals, per hour. It is
fitted for 2in. pipes. The
“Ajax,” a similar type,
gives 700 gals, per hour
and is fitted for ljin. pipe.
Other sizes of pipe, of
course, may be used. Fur-
ther particulars on appli-
cation.
3*l
Rapid” Centrifugal Pumps
A Centrifugal has the
greatest capacity of
any Pump for its size,
and is generally used
for lower heads ant!
larger capacities than
Plunger Pumps.
“Rapid” Pumps are
of the most modern
design. In Single
Stage (for heads up
to 50ft.), Two Stage'
(for heads up ft
100 ft.) and Multi
Stages. All sizes from
2in. upwards. Par-
ticulars on request.
fsd
if eoixsidcring the installation of pumps to improve jour water supply
this summer, ask for our Pump Expert’s Free Advice before you buy.
It will be given without obligation.
FREE!
We have recently issued an .ex-
tremely useful Catalogue of Tools
and Hardware for Farm and Home,
In addition to nearly 250 pages
of illustrations and descriptions of
over 1400 articles, there are many
pages of valuable information com-
piled by a competent authority.
The many subjects included make
Catalogue No. 33 a splendid refer-
ence book for the man on the land.
T° make sure that you secure a copy,
fill m and send this coupon now.
Please send me, Post Free, a copy !
of your Catalogue No. 33.
I
NAME I
ADDRESS
ersons
Plppriclanj limited
“Dependable Goods Since 18G0.' r
51 Bathurst Street .... SYDNEY
582 Collins Street - - - MELBOURNE
116 Waymouth Street - - ADELAIDE
532 Murray Street ..... PERTH
fjL CHarm of the
PACIFIC
INLANDS'
0
m
if
PurcHttee-O
For less than the cost
of a city holiday!
EXCURSION FARES
(VO EXCHANGE)
SUVA, FIJI
Round Trip, 23 days, Ist Class Return, £35
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva, Ist Class Return, £75
Seven-weeks’ Tour .... Cabin,, „ £55
RAROTONGA, COOK IS
Twenty-three Days’ Tour, Ist Class Return, £45
Via Wellington, N.Z... Cabin,, „ £34
PAPEETE, TAHITI.
Via Wellington and
Rarotonga .. Ist Class Return, £55
Seven-weeks’ Tour .. Cabin,, „ £4O
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney;
59 William Street, Melbourne.
Lines
Uni
AND
MOKE TO ENJOY on land and sea
. . . enroute to
ENGLAND "AMERICA
on the
MARIPOSA & MONTEREY
NEW nine-deck ocean triumphs
w
v
m
Moderate Fares from
SYDNEY to ENGLAND
FIRST CLASS from
Single Return
£105.i0 £194.i0
CABIN CLASS from
Single £B3 Return £152
. . .
Special Reduced Seasonal Fares to America in
effect December, January and February. Book early!
SYDNEY-
LOS ANGELES or SAN FRANCISCO
FIRST CLASS
ROUND TRIP from
CABIN CLASS
ROUND TRIP from
£99
£7O
HOLIDAY IN THE SOUTH SEAS with economy
NO W moderate fares and faster time bring these treasured vacation lands to you
MINIMUM FARES from SYDNEY to
FIRST
Single
25.0.0
33.5.0
55.0.0
CLASS
Return
35.0.0
65.0.0
75.0.0
CABIN
Single
18.15.0
24. 5.0
38.10.0
CLASS
Return
47.10.0
55. 0.0
SUVA. Fiii ... . .
PAGO PAGO, Samoa .
HONOLULU, Hawaii
On a "pound and pence” basis THESE SHIPS and
THIS ROUTE set a NEW standard in accommo-
dations, service and value. 18 days to CALIFOR-
NIA! 28 days to ENGLAND. Through trans-
portation to any point in England and America.
Next Sailings to America
via Auckland, Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii
"MARIPOSA", Nov. 19 "MONTEREY", Dec. 17
Many other attractive fare
combinations to Europe
and Around-the-World
Fares subject to exchange.
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO
MATSON LIN E
Aill-7A 12 Bridge Street, SYDNEY. 'Phone: B 7981 -3


The Equitable Life Assurance
Coy. of Australasia, Ltd.
Head Office: Equitable Life Building.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Vic. Office: 360 Collins St., Melbourne.
Head Office
Brisbane.
The Company trans-
acts every variety of
PrQbate, Whole Pile,
Endowment, Children’s
Endowment, Family
Income, Combined
Benefits (all Sickness),
Personal Accident,
Fire, Motor Car and
General Insurance.
Policies cover
Hospital Benefits,
Partial and Total
Disability Protec-
tion.
FKEDK. BEVY,
Managing; Director.
,W- Vl'S''-"'’ ,M ««»“,««
ial »^ WS »<
’ 19**
b^?, c C oi
. e tMl ov
r>«fS
•#£> " ‘ „C9»** CW ■ e—
v „a; e ous -vet" 10
ot.afe'- '
5,
ty? c
S?«'"
of*'*
-te***T G« e
\'lVl V ’ n H9t e l
a va^ e
and n ' CataV^ C ,’ M V -JO S^gS^S’
.**S?
-* ***sss s&iVs? W • is *&*. *•*■
vflc»* ea gta&Y , s% l’ -|i
fe' r ii*!2iSS
in ll
s
*$
am
•»«
nn?=
a ife
Mm
1311111
»
Amusements.
|. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN SEASON.
KING’S THEATRE: AUJUMN CROCUS.
Legal Notice.
in the Supreme court op new south
1 WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1366 of 1932.
Between REBECCA MAUD SPEARS Petitioner
And RAYMOND SPEARS Respondent.
To RAYMOND SPEARS late of Muswellbrook.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Rebecca _ Maud
Spears has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court- and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an Appearance to the said Suit at the proper
of this Honorable Court on or before the eleventh
day of January One Thousand nine hundred ano
thirty-three and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be hear
and determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copv of the Petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitors free ot
Ch DATED this twelfth day of October, 1932.
For the Registrar,
(nsf) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
J. M. GLASS, Solicitor for the Petitioner, ttauchope.
By his Agents, W. S. Gray and Peikms, S 1 ’
376 George Street, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
There’s quite a revival of tapestries among
Sydney needlewomen. Two chairs with flow-
ered upholstery took the stage at the opening
of the Arts and Crafts Society, and on the
walls was a framed example of bottle-
brushes in the same embroidery. Public
librarian Ifould sang its praises loudly when
he stepped forth, a Daniel come to judg-
ment, and raised his voice among the hon-
esses in the ceramic, china-painting and
modelling section. Florence Sulman’s tap-
estry fire-screen* too, was an enviable piece.
The Governor-General’s lady came down
from Canberra with secretary Miss Graham
to do the official opening, and did it very
handsomely behind the azaleas that flowered
about the edge of the stage. She wore a
pink satin blouse with her black suit, and
her hat was feather-wreathed —quite impres-
sive. Miss Graham supplied a subdued
sartorial accompaniment in brown tones.
Florence Sulrnan added a frock and hat
green as young grass after rain, and Henry
Braddon’s lady was another of the decora-
tions of the platform.
The show, as usual, fills the big. gallery
of the Education Department with the
beauty of work done by hands patient m
the service of Art. The pottery , this year
has a glaze and a wealth of design which
is ahead even of last year’s display. Mrs.
Vi Eyre’s cleverly-modelled vase on which
a ’possum disports in a gum-tree has gone
to join the treasures of the National Gallery.
This will also be the resting-place of the
pewter blotter by Mrs. Scott Fletcher which
caught the trustees’ eyes. The Technologi-
cal Museum will be enriched by some pieces
of satin-glazed pottery from the. hands or
Miss Ilolden, who lias been working m this
medium for not longer than two years.
Twin beds snuggled under roseate covers,
topped by pale lemon eiderdowns, m a stage-
set bedroom. The William and Mary beds
and the low dressing-table were fascinating.
Mrs. Edith Spier and Mrs. Jocelyn Brown
designed this outfit between them. A writ-
ing table in polished cedar, the work of Dr.
Vivian Reiijafield, called aloud to have love-
letters written on it. There were hammered
brass and tortoise-sliell, cigarette-boxes m
Norfolk Island blackwood, parrots of gay
plumage perched within the rim ot blue-
bordered plates (Joan Maughan has. done
this), lacquered screens, silver, jewels
quaintly set and woven scarves heaped in
rich plenitude. Mrs. Dalgarno’s little vel-
vet evening-coats were colorful with flower
designs, and every woman will, crave the
pottery necklaces; one in a design ot blue
scarabs, and another with a cicada tor a
pendant, make an insistent appeal.
One of the buyers was Mrs. Christian
Thornett, whose small swathed headgear and
champagne-toned outfit was the last word in
smartness. With' her was Mrs. Rolin pic-
turesque in black and white. Mrs. John
McKelvey was another of the well-dressed.
Her white swathed toque had apparently
been put on to the side of her head with
a shoehorn. Dangling from it was a nose-
length veil of thin mesh, and her black
suit was enlivened with a round necklace
of woven beads, quite thick and garnet red.
'Others who came to buy were Miss Mary
Fairfax and the Barton lady. ,
Jean Garling has written a Grand Guignol
play, “Lunatic’s Loot,” which exudes such
delicious horrors that Scott Alexander in-
tends to produce it at the Repertory Theatre
on November 12. He is devoting that even-
ing to the works of Australian playwriters.
Even merrymakers blase with ships’
dances are talking about the fare on the
Atsuta Maru when that steamer of the
N.Y.K. line staged a “Night in Japan” for
the benefit of St. Luke’s. Not a little of
the thanks should go to Bertha Clarke, who
brought to the arrangement, of the show a
knowledge gained through several years’
residence in Japan. The gangways, thickly
roped with red and white, led to an archway
of cherry blossom, over which the flags of
the two countries were entwined. On the
deck were more cherry-blossom arches and
pergolas, and when they were not cherry
blossom they were wistaria and convolvulus.
Pagoda-shaped lanterns lit the decks, plump
baby ones in between big fat ones. On the
way to the saloon the walls were hung with
Japanese scenes, each picture framed
in cherry blossom. The sailors took part
in the gaieties, and on the hatch did
dances symbolic of such cartli-subjects as
the coming up of the rice. There was feuc-
ing, too, and there were lantern slides and
a picture of wrestling; and the monster cake
replica of a famous castle, made by the chef,
and the speedboat thrills (from Walsh Bay
under the bridge and back for one shilling)
were other excitements. Captain K.
Fukuda, the Wade lady, Miss Blomfield,
Mrs. A. J. De Baun and J. B. Williams
received the guests, of whom there were 600.
Roses and thoroughbreds are the theme
of Pat O’Shea, who with sister Ella has
been out through Bathurst and Orange and
Scone. Wherever they went they met beau-
tiful horses and beautiful roses. At the
Mick Daltons’ home at Orange the paddocks
were hedged with white hawthorn, and
poppies and roses and lilac were everywhere.
(Incidentally, Mick was at Riverview with
the late Chris Brennan, and he has stagger-
ing tales to tell of Chris’s erudition at the
age even of 16.) At the Macquarie stud
they tell of meeting a two-seater car going
out of the gates loaded with red roses. They
asked whence the cargo had come, and when
the corner was indicated they swear you
couldn’t have told a bloom had been picked.
Both the brother and sister own horses, and
their colors have many a win to their credit.
They went north to Brisbane and its races
on Saturday.
Ben Fuller gave his elder daughter Joan
into the keeping of Alfred Ernest Rainbow,
one of the city’s young barristers, last
Thursday. The knot was tied in the church
of St. Mary Magdalene at Rose Bay, and
the small bride glimmered in magnolia satin
and drew a long wash of tulle veil and train.
Her sister Fay ’maided in peach-pink
georgettes, and a young lawyer—Davoren,
of Broken Hill —was best man. The Ben
Fullers’ home in Elizabeth Bay was crowded
for the merry-making, bride’s mother wear-
ing orchid-toned georgette in company with
a wide biscuit-colored straw hat.
The new Rainbow couple are sampling the
honeymoon in Melbourne. Joan’s dog
Bouncer went off to the Cup with them, and
the southern capital is witnessing a great
reunion. All the Fullers are there.
Sir Philip Game and official-secretary
Harry Budge saw the Derby run, but cut it
fine They arrived on the morning of the
race; so if there were cinders in their hair
or cuts about the jaws, Melbourne is asked
to please excuse. .
The Arts and Crafts Society, now in the
last lap of its annual show, is alive,
not only by
the members
who actually
work with
their hands,
but by a group
of enthusias-
tic women
who know the
value to a
community of
hand- craft.
One of these
is knight
Henry Brad-
don’s lady,
who has been
an ardent
supporter of
the society
since its be-
ginning. She
was its presi-
dent for two
years. The
Enzed Women’s Association is another of
the lady’s interests —she is a Maorilander
herself. Last week the Enzedders spread a
party at the Lyceum Club in herlionor.Tie
photo, of the lady is from Dorothy Welding.
When the new headmaster and his wife
come to King’s they will surely sing many
a thanksgiving for the garden Mrs. Morgan
Baker left behind her. What that flower-
loving lady has done in ten years in the
way of making earth blossom is a marvel to
old boys who remember the head s garden
a s a place of a few scattered flowerbeds.
Now there are great sweeps of color where
delphiniums, columbines, roses, love-m-a-
mist - watsonias, valerian, nasturtiums, ger-
beras and many more from many lands grow
in an exuberance that only a Ileysens brush
could treat with justice. Theu there are
o- rea f beds of cinerarias, now thick with
bloom, and a space where only the lihes
for the chapel rise snow-white. Add lose
pergolas, brilliant rockeries and ancient
plane-trees, and you get the foreground to
the old stone house and the stone chapel.
The chapel is a place of memories, from
ihp stained-glass windows commemorating
as mSKSf the back of the altar to the
verv beautiful one at the end of the new
uart placed there as a memorial by Colonel
Arnott. Here, too, are the names m brass
•ind stone of those who died m the Gieat
n- ~. p 37 King’s boys served and 101 were
kmed A flag that went with them through
Gallipoli is in the sanctuary. Tattered and
torn it has been stitched on. canvas, and is
another thread of color to stir the imagina-
tion of those who now sit m the old cedai
benches. King’s School boys went to the
South African War, too— The Bulletin’s
John Abbott among them—and in the chapel
their high adventure is commemorated.
Firms in Parramatta, like everything else
about the place, are historical. So the carv-
ing of the walls in the new part of the
chapel was the work of a man whose grand-
father did the carving in the original building.
A brass lectern given by Mrs. Willie Col-
lins, of Beaudesert, in Queensland, takes the
place of the old reading stand, now a little
wobbly, that has been there since the begin-
ning of things. Two stones, one from Win-
chester and the other from Canterbury, are
among the treasures within the sanctuary.
In her home Mrs. Baker’s prides are her
flower arrangements, and the old English
multicolored china which frames her fire-
place. Here is such a wealth of flowers as
makes you think there must be a flower
festival round the corner. The top of Mr.
Baker’s desk is a hedge of roses: red, white,
pink and yellow, they flaunt a sort of gay
defiance to the flowers of learning prisoned
within the books that rise, shelf upon shelf,
almost to the ceiling. A curious visitor
one day counted no fewer than 40 vases m
that room. Only an artist could manage
such riches and still keep the room looking
the study that it is.
When the Rev. Morgan Baker took over
the school he set about bringing it up to
date. The council allowed £70,000 for exten-
sions and alterations, and of the debt thus
incurred not a penny is now owing. The
study hall and the dining-room of the school
are long and high; at one end of the dining-
room there is a raised dais where the
masters sit at meat —quite a feudal touch.
In the kitchen a fuel stove looks big enough
to roast an ox whole. It isn’t called on to
do that, but near by are the butcher’s shop
and the freezing-room where beef and
mutton in quantities to distract the ordinary
housewife are prepared for the sacrifice.
Across the park is the house for the small
boys of King’s. This is Australia’s first
Government House, with Mrs. Macquarie’s
bath in a green glade that rises above the
orchard which provided her with many an
apple pasty, and which is still in spring a
wealth of blossom. This house has deep-
set doorways, big brass knobs, Georgian
fanlights and windows set with small panes,
four rows in the bottom and three in the
top, and a graceful old staircase. Its hall
has photographs of all the early Governors,
and each of its rooms is named after one
of them. The front room on the right as
you enter is the scene of Jack Abbott’s last
Bulletin story, “The Astrologer.”
Sales at Norman Lindsay’s show at the
Macleod Galleries are now just on £600: an
easy record for a one-man show since Gen-
eral De Fresh took command. Obviously the
old warrior is retreating.
This reflective-looking girl is Joan
Maughan, whose exhibit at the Arts and
Crafts was
the centre of
much interest.
Among other
things Joan
showed a set
of fruit plates
on which par-
rots inconse-
que n t and
lifelike turned a
knowing gaze
to the public.
Joan’s father
is David
M aughan,
lv.C., and her
grandfather
was Edmund
Barton. a
member of the
first High
Court Bench.
Inc identally,
one of Joan’s
uncles —Toby Barton’s son—was recently
appointed an Acting-Judge in this State.
Sydney has never harbored a more popu-
lar visiting actress than Sybil Thorndike.
Every woman’s organisation, or so it seemed,
gave her a party; and last week four fare-
wells were tendered her. She spoke at all of
them, and to some of the parties she took
her husband and he spoke too. At
the Uuited Association’s tea-drinking Syd-
ney was reminded by Mis. Albert Little-
john that Dame Sybil is a musician and a
historian as well as an actress.
But it is in the crowds that wait around
the door of the star’s dressing-room that
you see her hold. Here come budding com-
posers and girl pianists and amateur actors
and actresses by the score. Probably never
have so many young boys found their way
through the stage door. She has a word
of encouragement and understanding for
each of them. In her few spare hours she
has listened to their compositions, their
poems and their plays, and youth has re-
sponded with a dog-like affection.
Doris Fitton’s Independents staged a mati-
nee performance of “The Constant Nymph
specially for the Dame, and Lewis Casson
and son Christopher and family-trieim
Bruce Winston came in her train. It was
Sybil’s birthday, and Albert Collins had
turned out a souvenir programme for the,
occasion. A neat result, for one of the
players, Arthur Lane, who took the part oi
the absurd young man Peverill Leyburn, is
that he has been asked to join the company
and will start in the Brisbane production
of “Saint Joan.” Arthur is a Lancashire
lad with a talent for character parts.
Harry Gullett was too sick, after all, to
open the Advertise Australia Exhibition;
and Postmaster-General Arclidale Parkhiil
did it. So Mr. Gullett missed at least two
posters that would have given him a laugh.
One is the picture of a poor traveller tied
to a stake in a trackless space set with
palm trees and eager-looking cannibals, while
streaking up to him comes the native cmel
with a hurt look on his face : “Why diant
you tell us before you were from Cooks.
I’m their local agent.” The other is the Zoo,
with humans instead of animals in the cages
and pits. The cage this Letter loves is
the one where learned counsel rears its bc-
wigged head and trails its black gown
somewhat sinister. The Australian National
Travel Association is responsible for the
show.
Old journalist George Galway’s host of
friends are sending him waves of sympathy
over the death of his wife. In the latter
years of the “Evening News” George did
the paper’s art notes, and he and his good
chum (they had no children) were well-
known figures at all the shows.
Dulcie Deamer’s “Heart of a Woman” was
one of the small things played at the Tom
Thumb on Saturday night. Dulcie, in a
black frock with gold stripes running round
it, had quite a reception after her one-acter,
which held a good idea ornamented with
good lines. Marie Boyers, Joan Marienthal,
Nora Satler and Noela Marienthal were the
four compartments of the heart: Vanity,
Indulgence. Pity and Intellect. The one man
was Reg. Bolton.
Queensland’s quantum:—
Sir Leslie Wilson, with Lady Wilson and Mrs. H.
King, went to Arthur Boyle’s concert in aid of Toe
H. The Arkells, Mrs. A. E. Moore and Royale
Journeaux received the party. A boy soprano, James
Buchanan, the Nundah Choir, Jill Manners and
Forrest Pearson, an Irish tenor, sang; Italia and
Leo Guyatt, Gwen Campbell, the Brisbane String
Players, Arthur Boyle and Miss Woodhead were
other contributors.
Brisbane’s first aerial wedding took place at
Archerfield. The ’groom was E. A. Ehlers; the bride,
Hazel Daddow, arrayed in white georgette and lace,
was given away by her father on the landing ground.
Rev. W. H. Lavers tied the knot and cameras clicked
in all directions. The ’maids were E. and A. Ehlers,
in lemon georgette. R. Adair piloted the Hawk
moth monoplane and after the ceremony there was a
cruise over Greenslopes.
For the Queen Alexandria and the Margaret Mari-
Memorial Homes, there was a fOte at Elderslie, the
Fred Trittons’ Clayfield home. Stalls were under
arches and shady trees. Mrs. Tritton and Mrs.
Abraham welcomed the throng, Mrs. Tritton wearing
amethyst, Mrs. Abraham black, and Mrs. Forgan
Smith beige and brown.
There was a large attendance at the Queensland
Authors’ and Artists’ evening in Albert House.
Several old Bulletin contributors, including Jack
Mathieu and Ashton Murphy, gave amusing papers.
Inigo Jones, Dr. F. W. Robinson and Dr. T. P.
Fry were other speakers. President P. Stanhope
Hobday presided.
The Governor and Lady Wilson were at the Too-
woomba Military Ball in the Royal Agricultural
Society’s pavilion. Regimental color patches
adorned the walls. Yellow broom and Iceland poppies
decorated the supper tables and on the dais pink
azaleas banked a machine-gun. The colors were
draped across piled arms before the dais. Lady
Wilson was in black satin, her daughter in duck-egg
green.
Eric Richards married Alma Shaw in St. Andrew’s,
Lutwyche. The bride, who was given away by her
father, was in ivory bridal satin and an Irish lace
veil. Mrs. N. Radford, in lemon crepe de Chine, was
matron of honor, and the ’maids, Pauline Shaw and
Enid Middleton, were similarly frocked.
The 100 tourists on the Ulysses who are having a
“look-see” at Australia lined up in jazz pyjamas
to get their first glimpse of Brisbane, and made the
craft look like an excited rainbow let loose on our
grey morning river.
Hans Hey sen is having an exhibition of his solid
and splendid gum-trees and other pictures at Hein-
dorff House.


hosiery
No 800
A Pure Silk stocking of service weight. Strong mercerised lisle
top, heel and toe, silk plaited foot and taper heel splicing. For
appearance and wear an established favourite with women. Per pair
f
FFI
Beauty and durability are
the features of this heavy
weight stocking. Closely
knit in Pure Silk throughout, with
taper heel splicing, it is
dedicated to those women
who call for service with
style. Per pair
I4ii
901
FULL FITTING —A stocking designed for the full-
shaped leg. Many Prestige patents are featured in the
composition of this stocking. Knitted in specially
twisted Pure Silk, for strength and elasticity, it has a full
expanding mercerised lisle top and extra strength in
heel and toe. These features combine in providing
a long-felt want—a full-fitting stocking —without loss
of style and durability. Per pair
I2ii
700
A service weight stocking
of Pure Silk reinforced
with fine rayon. Mercer-
ised lisle top, heel and toe.
A most attractive number
for country wear.
Per pair
7n
dfds


For Sale
Beautiful North Queensland’s Tableland
DAIRY FARMS FOR SALE
from £6OO to £5OOO. Easy terms. No
droughts, wonderful nights, no mosquitoes,
100 inches rain, rich volcanic soil.
Write for Price Lists.
J. A. PLANT,
P.O. Box 8, Atherton, N.Q.
Missing Friends.
TF FREDERICK HAMILTON, a son of
Claude William Hamilton, late of Lillies-
leaf, Upper Macedon. Victoria, grazier, de-
ceased, will communicate with the under-
mentioned, he will hear something to liis
advantage. Dated the 27th day of October,
1932.
GREEN, DOBSON & MIDDLETON,
Solicitors, 60 Market Street,
Melbourne.
Deaths.
P D CELL.—On August 28, 1932, at Ips-
■ L - 1 wich, Suffolk, England, William Edgell,
formerly of Teddington, Middlesex, aged 86-
Buried at Freston.
BROKEN HILL MINES.
The crosscut at 2150 ft. from the new shaft
in the North Broken Hill mine is now about
50ft. into the lode, in rich ore. This is 300 ft.
below the bottom level hitherto worked, and
looks like doubling the visible ore reserves,
already calculated at several million tons.
This means, of course, that Broken Hill city
will flourish till the young have become old. And
Broken Hill’s celebrated newspaper, “The Barrier
Miner,” looks forward to new generations of
readers.
f
Children love it.
Figsen the gentle
laxative.
w
mam
i Wmm
:
g
vmmmm,::::
mmmmM:
fflW:
lllll'fi^^H
CONSTIPATION
KILLS THE JOYS OF LIFE
At the first sign of Constipation—take FIGSEN. Figsen as
prompt as it is gentle and natural. No purging. No griping
pain. No unpleasant after-effects. Figsen acts gently on the
intestinal muscles and helps them to perform their natural
functions. ..
Figsen is easy to take and will not upset the most delicate
stomach. For yourself—for the kiddies —always keep a tin of
Figsen handy.
Sold and recommended by your chemist.
L
NY
FIGSEN
FOR CONSTIPATION
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
At Flemington on Saturday the sun
shone on flower beds gay with mauve, yellow
and brown pansies and a brave display of
standard roses. The dressing featured new
materials and colors. The filmy fabrics and
lace gowns that were in favor last year com-
peted on this occasion with cottons, .spotted
and striped; muslins, crepes, in silk and
wool; cloth and chiffon. Millinery ran the
scale from tiny caps to hats of cart-wheel
dimensions. First prize for originality should
go to a damsel who strolled the lawn in
hiking kit, wearing well-cut grey flannel
trousers, a white silk shirt and a small
droop-shaped white straw hat. To complete
the picture she carried a walking-stick.
Scarlet was popular, for both dress and mil-
linery, and many chose yellow. Green had
many followers and there were heaps of black
and white outfits. The all-white turnout-
frock, hat, hose and shoes —also had its
exponents once again.
The G.-G. was there with his lady, who had
a white fox fur with her ensemble of nat-
tier-blue cloth, and matching felt hat. Their
Exes, bid many guests to luncheon in their
suite where baskets of flowers were placed
about the damask. Majory Wilson, in black
and white figured chiffon frock, black coat
and large black hat, was of the party, others
being knight James Mitchell, of Perth, and
liis lady; Senator and Mrs. A. J. MeLachlan,
of S.A.; Mr. and Mrs. J. G. Latham and the
Itussell Clarkes. Lieut.-Governor Irvine and
his lady extended similar hospitality, she m
black crepe romaine cheered by a blue posy.
Among guests at the Irvines’ luncheon were
Lady Arthur Grosvenor, whose black crepe
de Chine gown was figured in red and bis-
cuit tints, her black hat being brightened with
red * Mrs. Robert Ritchie; Mrs. lan Hay-
ward, of Adelaide; the Frank Clarkes, the
lady in a smart suit of putty-toned silk
crepe with a small matching straw hat; the
Pat Osbornes; Mr. and Mrs. A. V. Hiskins
and E. Ilayne and liis recently-acquired bride,
she in ensemble of Wedgwood blue with lynx
fur collar and small felt hat to match.
Watchers of the racing included Sir Hugh
and Lady O’Niell. The lady, a good looker,
was in beige-colored georgette and lace allied
to an almond-green straw hat. The couple
were being shown round by General Ghauvel
and his lady, she in blue, and Mrs. Bundock,
a study in red. Mrs. Alan Currie topped a
white chiffon frock that featured faggoting
with a sappliire-blue straw hat. Mrs.
Norman Brookes, who was accompanied by
her three daughters, was in a lace gown of
caramel tint, and her knitted cap-like toque
was wreathed with paler leaves. Mrs.
Neville Fraser, a country visitor, had a touch
of pale blue upon her black gown and her
large hat was similarly lined. Just back
from England, Mrs. Purves Smith was a sym-
phony grey-green, with smart little hat, bag
and shoes all the same tint. \ aleric Purves s
pale primrose georgette was allied to a shady
hat of lace straw of deeper shade. Kitty
Currie’s mushroom-pink chiffon frock was
covered with a chocolate-colored coat and her
straw hat was pink. Mrs. H. H. Smith wore
a white feather boa and white hat with her
blue gown.
Mrs. A. G. Hunter, wife of the owner ot
Liberal, favored black and white, her hus-
band’s racing colors. Mrs. A. J. btaughton
and Mrs. Winter-Irving were in black and
white, and Mrs. Willie Knox, from the
Western District, achieved smartness in black
georgette with silver-fox furs and a large hat.
Aileen Mclnerey shaded a black georgette
gown yoked in cream lace, with a very large
black’ lace and straw hat. From South Aus-
trlia were the Bruce lady, Mr. and _Mrs.
Andrew Tennant and their daughter Joan,
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Porter and Mrs. Spngg.
Philippa Gordon and Mrs. E. J. Watt repre-
sented Sydney; and Mrs. E. "Weetman, who
came with Mrs. T. Smith, was a patron
from Auckland (M.L.).
Seven hostesses welcomed their guests to
a ball at No. 9 on the eve of Derby Day.
Six of them introduced debutante daughters,
and Mrs. McCulloch, of Dunneworthy,
Ararat, entertained the friends of her two
sons. The other matrons were Mrs. A. J.
Staughton, of Keayang, in parchment lace;
Mrs. T. McKellar, of Barwon Heads, who
also chose lace of currant-red hue; Mrs.
Edmund Thornley, of Gnotuk, whose prin-
cess robe of white crepe had a sparkle ot
diamente on the corsage; Mrs. Ronald Cum-
ining in caped gown of lobelia-blue georg-
ette ;’ Mrs. R. A. D. Hood, of Merrang in
nut-brown moire, and Mrs. Lionel Weather-
ley, of Woollongoon, who had touches of
silver on her dark delphinium-blue gown.
The buds were Judy Thornley, whose fair-
ness was enhanced by a frock of material
known as polar ice, with coatee and sash
ends of turquoise-blue velvet; Jane Hood
and Deborah Staughton, in dainty white
frocks; Heather McKellar, in vellum satin;
Frances Winter-Irving, in sunset-pink georg-
ette; Jean Weatherley, whose primrose-silk
pique had a black sash and black and yellow-
daisies about the waist line; Lorraine Cum-
ming, in jade-blue flat crepe fashioned with
a deep cape; Sue McKellar, in pale blue,
and Elsie Brett, whose ivory-tinted frock
had a pale-blue sash.
Mrs. Harry Henty was there in black
velvet. Major Edric Hentry was accom-
panied by his bride, whose black taffeta was
sprinkled with pink roses. Pat Wilkinson
wore pink taffeta shirred about the waist.
Marjory Clarke, in petal-pink crepe, was
accompanied by her guests of the Cup
season, Marjory Wilson, daughter of
Bananaland’s Governor, and Peggy Menzies,
also from Brisbane. Miss Wilson’s caped
gown was of lime-green chiffon, Miss Men-
zies sporting parchment satin. Joan Miller,
a recent arrival from England, wore pale-
oink net, the skirt flared and flounced. Jac-
queline Mackinnon, of Tintaldra, donned
Oriental silver ear-rings to go with hei
powder-blue gown of angel-skm lace.. Jess
Robertson was simply clad in white chitton,
and Rosemary Downes had flowers border-
ing the corsage of a blue frock. Prudence
St aught on was a wearer of lime-green crepe,
and Mrs. Andy Chirnside danced in soft
blue. Among visitors from S.A. . were Mrs.
lan Haywood, daughter of our Lieut.-Go ver-
nor Irvine, in white silk pique; Phyllis
Bray, in black tulle; Evelyn Scarfe, in
peach-pink satin; Ursula Barr Smith and
Joan Tennant, who wore a draped gown
of faint pink moire velvet. Others at the
well-attended hop were Major C. O. Fair-
bairn and Mrs. Fairbairn, she m lap l ®
lazuli blue georgette; Mrs. Gordon Chirn-
side, wearing flowered chiffon in gold and
brown, hues, the Stanhope Wmter-lrvings
and Mrs. Alec Russell.
The Naval and Military Club’s ball was
held at the Town Hall. Colonel J. M.
Semmens, president of the club, received the
guests, who included the G.-G. and the
Isaacs lady, she in white embroidered with
crystal bugles. Others on the v.-r. dais
were Lud Mayors Smith and Walder. Mrs.
Walder had crimson roses on the corsage ot
her silver lame gown. Kathleen Semmens
was clad in apple-green silk crepe. Lieut;.-
Colonel F. 11. Wright and Mrs. Wright
brought out their daughters Rosemary and
Margaret, lately returned from England.
The lassies wore charming white frocks and
carried contrasting posies. Yvonne Cox,
Betty James, and Nellie Todd were likewise
white-clad debs. Mrs. R. T. A. McDonald
was in pearl pink satin; Colonel Clive
Steele’s wife chose black velvet; Rear-Ad-
miral Hyde’s wife was in deep _ blue lace
with a cape and Mrs. L. S. Bracegirdle chose
blue satin. Captain and Mrs. Aubrey Gib-
son and Captain and Mrs. J. H. Moss were
among the dancers.
A dance for young people at Grosvenor,
Toorak, was given by Betty Journeaux, who
danced in white angel-skin, and Jean Crapp,
whose frock combined pink and deep blue.
Mrs. Crapp wore black crepe romaine
brightened with a spray of white blossoms,
and Mrs. Journeaux was in a black robe ot
satin and lace.
A Dickinson-Monteath camera here pic-
tures the wife of Alah Currie, vice-chairman
of the V.R.C. Mrs. Currie came from
the broad
acres of Ercil-
doune, Bal-
larat way, to
see the Cup
run, and is at
her flat in
Melbourne
M a nsions.
When the
Yorks were
here, the
Curries’ domi-
cile was one
of the station
homes selected
for a royal
visit, an
a r r a ngement
which fell
through owing
to the indis-
position of the
Duchess. The
chatelaine of
Ercildoune is ever ready to help any philan-
thropic cause.
A dance at the Embassy added something
to the bank account of St. martin’s _ and
St. John’s Homes for Boys. The president
of the committee, Alfred Stirling, came with
liis sister Dorothy, whose chiffon frock was
marine blue. Tempe Falkiner brightened
her black lace gown with a cherry red sash
and earrings of the same hue. Eleyne
Chauvel chose bright red taffeta and Betty
Clarke had a touch of pale green upon her
white satin gown.
Mrs. F. W. Eggleston gave a party at
her Caulfield home as a welcome to her
sisters, Mrs. E. Gerber and Mrs. Richard
Vaughan, of Brisbane, and a farewell to
pianist John Simons. Carrie Cairnduff and
Dr. Harry Shannon sang, Mr. Simons
played, and some dramatic items were given
by the Merton Am. Dram. Soc., of which Egan
Eggleston is producer. There were also
bridge and dancing. The hostess wore black
lace, her daughter Jean sporting figured
chiffon in tones of green. Mrs. Gerber’s
gown was begonia red lace, and black lace
was the choice of Mrs. Vaughan.
Mrs. Alan Currie gave a cocktail party
at her flat at Melbourne Mans’ons as wel-
come to her niece Joan Miller, who came back
in the Orontes after a prolonged stay in
England. The maiden, who was presented
at Court this year, was in blue, with silver
fox furs and a matching velvet toque. Mrs.
Currie was a study in black and white in
gown and millinery, and Mrs Clive Miller
also chose the magpie blend.
Mrs. W. Winter Irving poured tea to
welcome the Clive Millers, the lady being
her sister, and the Millers were also- guests
of honor 'at a similar party hostessed by
Mrs. Kenneth Mackinnon, of Tintaldra
station, on the Murray, who is at Melbourne
Mansions for the racing season.
On a visit to her mother, Mrs. W. J. T.
Clarke, of Melbourne, is Mrs. Godfrey
Moule, who has resided for many years in
England. Her schoolgirl daughter Marigold
is making acquaintance with Australia.
Adelaide doings:—
Although the lack of warm weather gives cause
for complaint, it was responsible for the perfection
of the roses at the show in the Town HalL There
was a record display of lovely blooms and the hall
itself, massed with roses of every shade by the
Moulden lady and Mrs. Fred Porter, was a rose
garden in miniature, with a fountain included, even
the huge organ being hidden behind a wealth of
flowers. Lady Hore-Ruthven performed the opening
ceremony and Mrs. T. E. Barr Smith entertained the
vice-regal guests at afternoon tea on the stage.
Hallowe’en was celebrated at the Palais Royal.
Chief David Gordon and his lady received. The
pipers met his Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven and
marched them to the vice-regal box, where a bairn
in Highland dress presented the lady with a bouquet.
Past chiefs and their families were present, and
there was not a dull moment.
Rear-Admiral Dalglish and the officers of the
squadron were entertained at the Town Hall in the
reception room of the Mayoress. There was such a
wholesale response to the invitation that the youthful
guests were dispatched to the Council Chamber to
make merry over cocktails with the junior officers.
Mrs. Glover wore black georgette with touches of
beige and gold lace, and a wide-brimmed black
straw hat wreathed with pink roses. The Lud Mayor
made a brief speech of welcome and the Admiral
jovially called upon one of. his officers to respond
for him. Altogether, a very cheery affair.
In the evening there were over 900 present at the
Legacy Ball at the Palais Royal. His Ex. and Lady
Hore-Ruthven were present, and brought the Admiral
and several of his officers with them, following a
dinner party. An innovation was a treasure
hunt, envelopes with clues being hidden about the
Palais. The lucky finder of the treasure, a gold
wristlet watch, was Mrs. C. R. Milburn. The Mayor
and Mayoress and Mrs. Lionel Hill were others in
the vice-regal party.
Mrs. George Ritchie opened an exhibition of
charming watercolors, the work of the late Margaret
French, at the Argonaut Galleries.
A word from Westralia:—
The marriage vows of Joyce Parsons and Dr.
Hamish Macmillan were spoken in St. Andrew’s
church. The bridal gown of magnolia-tinted satin
was moulded with simplicity, adornment being con-
fined to a trail of orange buds outlining one side of
the square-necked corsage. The veil was of Brussels
lace. ’Maids Margaret Paton and Margot Law carried
sheafs of gladioli against their frocks of gold
chiffons, and velvet flowers ornamented their gold
tulle turbans. Mr. and Mrs. J. Parsons entertained
in King’s Park pavilion.
Symphony orchestral concerts draw good houses,
but not so big as to necessitate opening the gallery.
For the two concerts during Prof. Heinze’s visit
the upper regions accommodated a considerable over-
flow of late-comers. At the second concert Prof.
Heinze was prevented through indisposition from
conducting, but G. J. Reid rose to the occasion and
took the players through Honneger’s sensational
“Pacific 231.” Roy Shepherd twinkled through piano
numbers and Alice Mallon sang delightfully, especi-
ally in the “Agnus Dei,” with Hyman Lenzer playing
the obbligato. Prof. Heinze has been created per-
manent guest conductor and was presented by the
orchestra —Prof. Ross and Roy Shepherd conveyed
the gift to his bedside —with a sheoak baton in a
case of polished jarrah.
After a few weeks’ holiday in Perth, songbird
Alice Mallon has returned to her medico husband
and the booming surf of Esperance.
Margaret, second daughter of the Rev. and Mrs.
Howes, announces her betrothal to Evan Nuttall
Taylor, of Singapore.
Mr. and Mrs. David Brisbane are settling into their
Claremont home after several months of wandering in
Europe. Among other returned travellers are the
Bob Cameron couple of Mount-street.
The Cancer Appeal exceeded all expectations,
£10,736 being raised. Nearly all the money resulted
from the “Ray” contest. “The Railway and Tram-
way Ray,” Daphne Reymond, gets the winner’s
holiday trip to Java and Singapore, “Country Ray,”
Mrs. Fisher, will have a jaunt to Melbourne, and the
“Buffaloes’,” Miss Molyneux, packs a suitcase for
Yallingup.
Roy Shepherd gave his concert in the lofty Win-
throp Hall. Upon the University’s magnificent new
Beclistein he displayed to a large and appreciative
audience the charms of Schumann, Chopin and
Debussy. Marcia Hodges, looking her best in ciel-
blue, sang sweetly in German, and baritone Charles
Jenking contributed French songs.
Mrs. Florence Dain presented her students, very
attractive in their dainty white frocks, at a recital
of verse-speaking in the Karrakatta Club. “Dawen-
dine,’’ from the Pauline Johnson group, was a
pleasing number. Helen Nelson, Mrs. Waddy, Eve
Clayton, Frances Leonard, Marjorie Green and Mrs.
Dain were among the soloists. Musical interspersions
were provided by Hyman Lenzer, who fiddled magic-
ally, as always.
Tas. tidings:—
A tablet commemorating the sailing of the first
body of Tasmanian troops for the Great War was
unveiled at the Ocean Pier. Mrs. C. H. Elliott
(Sister King), wife of the commanding officer of
the 12th Battalion, pulled the strings before a big
crowd of military folk and civilians, and the troops
then marched to the Domain, where a short service
was held before the Cenotaph. In the evening theic
was a* cheery reunion of the “Originals’ ” Assoc, at
Anglesea barracks.
Rain sluiced down unrelentingly from dawn till
dark and made a flop of the Royal Show. Othei •
wise it might have been a record exhibition; as it
was, the first day’s events were postponed to the
second, which was quite as bad, and the third dav
was little better. Among the women riders who
braved the wet were Mrs. Malcolm Gibson, who scored
a win with her beautiful Harmony ; Barbara Bennett,
Mrs. Arthur Bennett, Kathleen Mercer and K. Ward-
law'.
For the Show Ball, secretaried by Mary Watcboon
and Stella Shone, the Continental was decorated
with gold, blue and red, and a miniature parade of
toy animals made an amusing feature of one of the
supper tables. Over 300 danced to the Continental
orchestra’s music.
The Engineering Faculty’s shivoo in the University
Library went off veiy briskly. One of the graduates.
Cecil Jillett, was disclosed as the composer of some
of the dance tunes played by the orchestra. Supper
was served in one of the lecture rooms.
Winnie Gibbs, daughter of the late Rev. F. H.
and Mi’s. Gibbs, Beaconsfield, and Charlie Gardner,
Relbia, exchanged vows at Holy Trinity Church,
Beaoonsfield. The bride’s frock, of pale parchment
georgette, had a little coatee of the same with
puffed sleeves; the veil was of old Limerick lace.
Beryl Bennett and Beth Phelps 'maided in pink and
blue respectively, the first in a frock of floral taffeta
with a little coat of pink mirror velvet and a. big
panama straw hat, the second in pale blue taffeta
with many-frilled skirt and blue picture hat.
Mrs. Williamson and her daughter Peggy, who
are leaving the Speck to live in Melbourne, have
been extensively farewelled by their friends in
Launceston.
Professor Edgeworth David is paying a visit to his
daughter and son-in-law, the W. K. Maclntyres,
Launceston.


EOTHEN
PAYING GUESTS
128 Eaat Terrace
332 Wakefield St-
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
k garage
Fnchuive Tariff, £4-4-0
Central 528
Mrs. PARKER
Coromo
tbe dem of the £oast
QN the beautiful shores of
Lake Macquarie, surround-
ed by the beauties of nature,
with facilities for every sport,
Toronto is indeed the Gem of
the whole North Coast, right
at Sydney’s backdoor hours
by train.
The Hotel Toronto is the last
word in modern convenience
and comfort - and is famous
for its very moderate tariff
and excellent table . . fish
straight from the Lake every
day Dancing - wireless -
launch parties - prawning
parties - boating - swimming
- tennis - golf. Toronto, a
veritable corner of Paradise,
is the“Killarney of Australia.”
Come to the Hotel Toronto
Write for booklet or inquire from the
Govt. Tourist Bureau, Sydney
fiotel toromo
CHARLES BACON, Proprietor
Telephone Toronto 3
IF
you desire to reach that section of
the N.Z. public that moulds the buy-
ing habits of the rest;
IF
you have a message for New Zealand-
ers who have more money to spend
on more commodities than the many;
IF
your goal is a market with the maxi-
mum capacity to respond to your
advertising efforts, then cover the
Wellington Province, the highest in
spending power, by using the most
effective medium,
Clk Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
’Phone: 85241.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart,
jydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
sss
XV'MVM
M
8£^3$g8S&&: : : : :
mSmssMm
Xv.va'.v.v.:-
Iv.fevKvX:'.'^':
\V\Q*
WA
<•»
a'*'
tor ~
. "S'° r
,o^o»
as v^ e
bar 9
-* Va r
o
soon
few*
*fei?SS
as
as
fI>SK
mm
SSSSS
ifefeSSS'S
s«:
SSf
58s
••■A
®SS
fee
HSg
5®
•KM
Pf' C T
dord ' ,s '
* e r ea\ Bnt'^
feS
too
its
pw\
»Ks
no
a
m
a she
WE
an
m
Pf:fe
:•:%
“Well, Phil—how do you like it?”
“Tom, I’m really amazed at what
this car can do! I didn’t realize
it had so much power.”
“Yes! That’s what I like about
it! And it’s as economical as it is powerful!
Silent Second and Synchro-Mesh Trans-
mission are great features! I’ve never made
such perfect and simple gear changes!”
“There’s no doubt about it, Tom, Vauxhall
is an English car that is really different!”
• • •
With an R.A.C. rating of 26 h.p., and
developing 61 h.p., the six-cylinder engine of
the 1933 Vauxhall gives true English low cost
running. Insist on six-cylinders—no more,
no less! With more, you needlessly sacrifice
economy; with less, you get vibration.
General Motors-Holden’s Ltd.
Consult your :
LOCAL AUTHORISED VAUXHALL DEALER
Legal Notices.
TO CATHERINE FLORA MATSON (nee McLean)
the wife of DOUGLAS MATSON of the City of
Christchurch Clerk.
i TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Christ-
church citing you to appear and answer the Petition
of DOUGLAS MATSON of Christchurch Clerk wherein
tie prays for a dissolution of his marriage with
you on the ground of separation for three years
last past and upwards and such Citation intimates
that in default of your so doing the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition and to pronounce
sentence therein notwithstanding your absence. NOW
THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within forty-two days after the
date of this publication to attend in person or
by your Solicitor at the Supreme Court Office at
Christchurch New Zealand and there to enter an
appearance without which you will not be allowed
to address the Court at any stage of the proceedings.
A copy of the said Citation and Petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same at
the Supreme Court Office at Christchurch New
Zealand or at the office of Mr. G. A. Hilford 499-508
Little Collins Street Melbourne Victoria.
Dated this 13th day of October, 1932.
W. PARKER,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the respondent are particularly requested
lo forward to her the foregoing advertisement.
Mr. H. R. Sampson is the solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, whose address for service is 190 Hereford
Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
ESTATE THURZA CLAPP deceased.—Notice to
LESLIE CLAPP and his issue.
LESLIE CLAPP a. son of the abovenamed deceased
is entitled to share in the distribution of her estate
if be survived her. If he predeceased her leaving
issue surviving her such issue arc entitled to share.
It has been ordered that enquiry be made for the
said Leslie Clapp or his issue (if any) by advertise-
ment in the “Australasian” and Bulletin news-
papers. If no communication from the said Leslie
Clapp or his issue is received within sixty days
from the later of such advertisements the said Leslie
Clapp will be presumed to have predeceased the said
Thurza Clapp without leaving issue surviving her.
Her estate will thereupon be distributable amongst
the other persons entitled. Communications may be
addressed to Olive Mabel Forrester Administratrix
of the estate at the offices of her undermentioned
Solicitors. •
Dated the 18th day of October, 1932.
NAIRN & McDONALD, Solicitors, 69 St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, Western Australia.
Missing Friends.
pT ITZ GERALD. —Would anyone having
A information concerning PATRICK
FITZGERALD, son of the late Michael and
Margaret {nee O’Sullivan) Fitzgerald, and
brother of the late Maurice Fitzgerald of
Coleraine, Victoria, kindly communicate with
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, 333 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
LJANNIGAN or HOURIGAN.—In the
1 1 Estate of the late Maurice Fitzgerald,
late of Coleraine, Victoria.
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, 333 Collins Street,
Melbourne, desire any of the children of the
late Kate Hannigan or Hourigan to com-
municate with them. Mrs. Hannigan or
Hourigan was the daughter of the late
Michael and Margaret {nee O’Sullivan) Fitz-
gerald and sister of the above Maurice
Fitzgerald.
DON'T TAKE SALTS
FOR CONSTIPATION
Civilisation’s biggest curse is Constipation,
and the next biggest is the habit of taking-
harsh salts. To roots and herbs Nature gave
the power of making- and keeping human
systems sweet and regular—to salts, Nature
gave a powerful drastic action that may bene-
fit horses, but is not advised for the delicate
internal mechanism of men, women and children.
The perfect vegetable, non-mineral regulating
medicine for men, women and children over
three is Cramer's “Australian Root” Pills.
These pills prevent and banish internal lazi-
ness ; they tone the liver, stimulate the bile,
sweeten the stomach and breath, purify the
blood, and clear the eyes and skin as nothing
else can. A bottle of 50 “Australian Root” Pills
costs only 1/- at any Chemist’s, thus saving
your money, as well as your health. There's
nothing to equal Cramer’s “Australian Root"
Pills for gentle, safe, effective and health-
giving action. They’re the ideal laxative for
the Australian family.
Missing Friends.
pjUGHES, CLEMENT, aged about 43
years, son of James Hughes and Mary
Ann Martha Collins, will hear something to
his advantage if he communicates with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113
Queen Street, Melbourne.
£lOOO
FOR SIXPENCE
Awaits you in the Golden West.
TIIIC
®tiu££?
PERTH—WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Crossword Competition
IS BOOMING!
The fortnightly competition is all the
rage; over £3OOO in cash distributed each
competition. Interstate readers can enter.
Cut out and fill in the solution, send 6d.
with each coupon and you may win big
money.
l IRST. £1000: SECOND, £330; THIRD,
£lOO. Hundreds of other prizes.'
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
Sydney: Gordon & Gotch, Ltd..
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd.
Melbourne: Gordon & Gotch, Ltd.
McGill’s Newsagency.
Adelaide: Gordon & Gotch, Ltd.
Railway Bookstall.
PRICE, 4d. PER COPY.


One Punch Pulsy
By Montague Grover
Synopsis: Patsy Quirk, lllawaxra
miner and amateur middleweight
champion, turns professional. Stan
Carlisle, an artist friend, shows Patsy
and his trainer, Buff Cody, a drawing,
“The Awakening of Titania .” Buff
pronounces it ot stuff”; Patsy,
acknowledging its beauty, thinks it too
daring. He asks Phyllis Deane, an
attractive commercial artist, to come
for an outing. She declines , telling
him she is sitting for Stan’s “ Titania”
picture. Patsy is shocked, and she
pronounces him a woivser. He buys the
drawing and presents it to Stan. Dcs
Quirk gets five years for attempted
murder during a coal strike. Patsy
fights grimly to raise money to free
his brother. But Des is quite re-
signed. Patsy is imposed upon by an
adventuress, but by following Buff’s
advice he is rid of her. De Vernay,
the Stadium’s press agent, tries to end
Phyllis’s estrangement with Patsy;
but it is Stan who brings them to-
gether again. On his advice Phyllis
takes some ad.-designs to Gaffney, Aus-
tralian sub-manager of the Toms Adver-
tising Agency. Buying a bundle, to her
astonished delight, he sends proofs of
them to head office in Los Angeles.
Patsy has three more easy wins _ over
imported men; and then Phyllis re-
ceives an invitation to join the head-
office staff of the Toms Advertising
Agency. She accepts, and crosses
the Pacific to California.
Chapter XXVIII.
At)AY out Phyllis received a radio
message from Mrs. Gaffney, telling
her she expected Phyllis to come to
her apartment and stay there until she had
made her own arrangements.
The ship had hardly tied up at the’wharf
before a pretty, capable-looking woman of
about thirty stood framed .in the door of
the cabin. “I guess you’re Miss Deane,”
said the stranger. “I’m Mrs. Gaffney.”
“I’m so glad. It’s so good of you taking
all this trouble over me,” replied Phyllis.
“Cut it out,” commented Mrs. Gaffney.
“And tell me how’s my poor husband
getting along among the kangaroos in that
wild land of yours.”
“When I left him on the wharf he just
looked splendid.”
“000-hoo!” remarked Mrs. Gaffney.
“Now, that’s too bad. _ I was hoping he’d
be pining away over his absence from his
poor little wife.” She looked Phyllis up
and down. “But perhaps it’s just as well
to have you over here. You’re too good a
looker to have lying around loose with
spare husbands, and”—she put her arm
round Phyllis—“l think I’m going to like
you. So I’d just hate to have to take'suit
against you for fifty thousand dollars for
alienation.”
“I’ve got to look after my. baggage, Mrs.
Gaffney,” said Phyllis after they had been
speaking a few minutes.'
“Mrs. Gaffney nothing,” -retorted the
American woman. “You’ve got to call me
Luella; and as fat as that baggage is con-
cerned, it’s all fixed up. Just put on your
coat and step into my machine.”
There was a crowd outside the wharf
sheds, and Phyllis, suddenly realised that
she was in the sphere of .influence of .Holly-
wood. Three men with cameras were dotted
about the dusty street, a man dressed as a
convict was struggling desperately in the
grasp of another, and a masterful person-
ality was. ordering about a dozen myrmidons
who pushed back spectators liable to tres-
pass into the picture. Mrs. Gaffney was
not interested; such scenes were too com-
mon to justify more than a passing glance.
They joined the hundreds of cars speed-
ing along the road to Los' Angeles and
burst upon another scene that was familiar
enough to Phyllis in pictorial representa-
tion," but which she had never previously
seen in reality. On all sides rose oil derricks,
so close that they constituted a perfect
forest. Were a solitary one of these to
arise in Australia and pump out its petro-
leum, the news would ring from the Leeu-
win to the Line, and fortunes would be
made overnight. Yet here there were thou-
sands scattered about in a square mile and
nobody glanced a.t them. They were com-
monplaces of daily life.
They entered the outskirts of the city,
uninviting as the outskirts of Sydney or
Melbourne. Then the standard oi the
cottages began to improve and they ran
into one of tlio most beautiful resident! h 1
areas that Phyllis had ever seen—wide,
fenceless streets, paved and guttered and
Icerbed with the hygienic precision of a
modern bathroom, dividing green laws and
gardens tilled with shrubs and flowers. Be-
hind these lawns stood villas quaipt and
picturesque and colorful. Some approached
perilously to the border-line of vulgarity
in their wealth of color, but they fitted so
perfectly into the scheme of decoration
that Phyllis lay back and drank in their
beauty. They entered a broad boulevard
of flowering gums. There were seemingly
more flowering gums in Los Angeles than
in all the capitals of Australia put to-
gether, and Mrs. Gaffney was quite sur-
prised when she learned that they were
natives of Australia. The cottages began
to give way to large blocks of buildings—
apartment houses, Mrs. Gaffney explained—
and then business premises came into view.
“We’re getting close to the down-town
section now,” said Mrs. Gaffney. “We had
time to burn, so I thought I’d take you
the longest way round. I wanted you to
see the best part of the city. The quickest
way up from San Pedro’s likely to give you
a bad impression.”
“This is Hill,” she went on. “That’s
Pershing Square ahead. We regard that as
the centre of L.A., though that tower up
there’s the City Hall. That’s the Biltmore
Hotel behind Pershing Square. If you ever
get into the millionaire class that’s the
only place to stay, unless you care to go
a bit out to the Ambassadors.”
Mrs. Gaffney spun Phyllis about the prin-
cipal streets of the city, reeling off statis-
tics like a Government official. Phyllis
learned how the population of Los Angeles
had increased, how the civic area had been
added to, how Los Angeles had wrested
from Grand Rapids the honor of being the
world’s greatest producer of furniture, the
bank clearances, the average rainfall, the
number of sunny days per annum and the
expenditure on schools, police and fire pre-
vention. Her brain reeled.
They turned westward, and, skimming
past tramcar after tramcar, turned the
corner of a park. In it was a lake, and
Phyllis felt her heart leap with home-love
when she saw half a dozen black swans
swimming lazily in it.
“So they’re countrymen of yours! I
never knew that before,” remarked Mrs.
Gaffney. “That’s Westlake Park, where
'Charlie Chaplin made his first picture.” she
added. “We’re nearly home now. That’s
my place near the Elks’ Building.” She
indicated a huge stone-fronted block.
They parked the car beside the kerb and
entered the building. ' The baggage was
awaiting them, they found from the infor-
mation girl on the ground floor; and. when
they reached Mrs. Gaffney’s apartment, the
lunch was already on the table, prepared
by the woman who came daily to look
after the apartment.
“You’ll take my room,” said Mrs.
Gaffney. “I’ll sleep on the wall-bed in the
parlor.”
“You’ll do no such thing,” protested
Phyllis. “I’m not going to turn you out
of your room. Besides, it’s easier for me
to take the wall-bed. I’ll have to get in
to work early.” ‘ - -
The-argument appealed to the hostess and
Phyllis won.
After lunch they drove in to the Toms
Agency office in Sixth-street. Phyllis made
the acquaintance of the great Ezra Toms
and half a dozen of his staff., Toms was
the first American she had met who looked
the part. He was a big 'man, thick-set to
the verge of corpulence. His horn-rimmed
spectacles - looked like- the - headlights of a
car ; his . successive, chins served as the base
of a large mouth- which held an eternal
cigar. He wore no coat or.vest, apparently
that the world might sun itself in the
rays from his pink shirt. He handed out a
line ; of talk—the . phrase was his own-
suitable to .a newly-arrived .employee, and
■impressed upon Phyllis that Service to the
Community (he spoke in capital letters)
was of far more importance than salary to
her or profits to himself. Especially was he
strong on Efficiency, and created the im-
pression that the world would be a far
better place had Henry Ford been in charge
on the day of the Creation. He was a
member of all the luncheon clubs and up-
lift, organisations, and would have strongly
resented Copp’s heretical remarks concern-
ing the Rotarians and kindred bodies. Still,
he was courteous, fair and knew what he
wanted, and was able to convey his mean-
ing, so that Phyllis left the great man with
considerable admiration tempered with con-
siderable amusement.
In the room allotted to her Phyllis found
a red-headed eirl working on a sheet of
Bristol board. “I’m Sadie Mills,” she an-
nounced. “I suppose Ezra James tried to
pull the usual bunk. But don’t make any
mistake, he’s the goods. It’s no use tlying
to put it, across hini; and he’s the best ad.
man bar none along the Pacific slope.
“He certainly impressed me-strongly that
he knew his business,”- replied Phyllis.-
"He sure does and then some,” observed
Sadie. "But there’s one thing I ought to
put you wise to. I guess you’re pretty hard-
boiled?”
"Hard-boiled?” queried Phyllis.
"You. look like a girl who knows her
onions,” explained Sadie. "Well, watch out
for any disinterested philanthropy on the
part of little Willy. If you’re a gold-digger
he’s the easiest mark ever. One girl who
used to be here framed something on him
and stung him for five thousand bucks. But
if you’re on the level, don’t rush his charm-
ing hospitality; if he wants you to go to
dinner, you’ve just eaten good and hard;
if he mentions an auto, ride, remember a
date with a sick aunt or something. Get
me?”
It was not until six weeks • later that
Ezra Toms happened to enter Phyllis’s
room as she was leaving. He helped her
on with her coat, and squeezed her gently
as he did so. She did not push him away
or get indignant or even frown. She looked
at him quizzically.
“Mr. Toms,” she said, “I’m surprised that
such a great business psychologist as you
are should be so ignorant of the subject in
its other branches. When a woman wants
a man to do that she lets him understand
that she does. I haven’t let you under-
stand it.”
Toms looked at her with a suspicion of
a smile. “Little girl,” he observed, “you’ve
sure put it all over me. I apologise.”
From that time onward Toms was re-
spectful and friendly, and Phyllis grew to
like the man more and more as time
went on.
During the four days that passed before
she started her work, she and Luella spent
a strenuous time. Just around the corner
from where they lived was the Otis Art
Institute, where Luella was studying sculp-
ture —an institution so extensive and so
catholic in its interpretation of art that
they spent nearly a whole day among the
various classes. In Luella’s car they ex-
plored the outskirts of Los Angeles; they
saw part of a picture made in Hollywood,
they lunched on Ladies’ Day at the Up-
lifters’ Club at Santa Monica, they ran out
as far as Riverside to see the world-famous
Mission Inn, and swept past the weird,
eccentric road-houses on the road to Lanker-
shim. Phyllis b'egan to have a fair know-
ledge of the city—sufficient to carry her
through her work without error.
Before she had been in America a week,
Luella suggested that Phyllis should make
her apartment her home. Apparently this
had been her intention from the first; she
had just held off to learn whether Phyllis
would be an agreeable companion. Phyllis
was only too pleased with the arrangement,
beating down Luella’s opposition to her
sharing the cost, and, getting together a
few trifles for her own room, they settled
down to keep house.
Phyllis felt her heart fall a few days later
when a strange man came, greeted Luella
by her first name and kissed her. A grave
fear smote her that Luella was unfaithful
to her husband in Australia—a fear that
endured until, two or three nights later, they
w r ent out to Beverley Hills, to the house
of one of the people whose acquaintance
Phyllis had made on shipboard. There
Luella kissed not one male acquaintance
but several. One or two of them were
married men, and their wives standing by
their sides made no protest against the
kissing. Moreover, when other male
acquaintances arrived, the wives kissed them
without the husbands taking offence. Every-
body called everybody else by first names,
and these social gatherings of respectable
people, some middle-aged, seemed to be
governed by the social codes of a youthful
unchaperoned picnic in Australia. She
realised that she had done Luella an in-
justice, confessed her relief to her and was
greeted with laughter. "I guess you must
be very proper people in that little island
of yours,” commented Luella. “Kisses in
company don’t count here. Of course, if
any of those men tried to kiss me when
we were alone, he’d get a tin ear.”
Phyllis failed to adjust herself to this
American attitude; it seemed to her that
a kiss must be animated by love or passion
or affection or the stress of excitement or
emotion, like the kisses she had given to
Stan and Patsy in the studio. She could
not understand a kiss being given as a mere
salutation. Neither could she quite adjust
herself to the frankness of conversation
between the sexes. In Australia she be-
longed to the artistic-literary circle, frankest
of all; but here she found that people
neither artistic nor literary would freely ex-
change stories which even the boys and
girls at the art classes of Sydney would
keep until only one sex was within hearing.
Not that any of the conversation was
offensive; its very openness disarmed
criticism.
Accustomed to regard America as the
home of soulless materialism, she was
astounded to find a. people earnestly and
strenuously endeavoring, to advance all
things cultural. They might not have won
out as yet, but no eountiy in. the world
was setting out so deliberately and so per-
sistently to apply its methods of efficiency
in industry to efficiency in the higher things
of life. It made her smile when she heard
of the mayor of Smith’s Curse, Arizona,
initiating a drive for culture in a speech
before the Rotarians of Smith’s Curse:
“Folks, Smith’s Curse is the greatest little
city in the United States. We’ve got the
finest climate, the finest people, the finest
buildings for our age of any city in the
Union. We may not be as big as N’York
nor as highbrow as Boston, but per head
we leave every other centre on the discard.
But what have we done for culture? We’ve
made our name known from Portland,
Oregon, to Portland, Maine, for our advance
in material prosperity, but we’re in dark-
ness when it comes to literature or art or
music or the higher things. Now, it’s up
to us to put Smith’s Curse on the cultural
map, and I propose that this city votes
ten thousand dollars to culture. I don’t
care what form it takes'; I leave that to
the guys that know more about it than I
do. But I’m in earnest, and if the city
votes this sum I’ll blow a 'grand’ of my own
towards seeing it through.”
It sounded all very vulgar and very
ignorant, but the desire was there, and be-
fore Phyllis had been in America a few
weeks she realised that the effort would be
made. It was effort which had made
America great in material things; there was
a likelihood that effort would make it just
as great in other ways some day.
Not only was the effort confined to the
community. It was apparent in the indi-
vidual. Luella had washed dishes in a
restaurant during the time she was going
through the University of Southern Cali-
fornia, and it was Luella, with her national
love of statistics, who had assured her that
San Francisco, with a population of a
million, had two universities with more
students than Oxford, Cambridge,_ Liver-
pool, Manchester, Glasgow and Edinburgh
put together. Eveiy day Phyllis was running
across 'canvassers, shop-girls, ice-men, wait-
resses and occasionally policemen who were
in their spare time studying at a university
and preparing themselves for careers as
lawyers, doctors, scientists and newspaper
men and women.
She liked these people. They were so
genial, so modest and above all so Aus-
tralian. There were certainly no other
people on earth who so closely resembled
her own countrymen in the essentials of
Phyllis was a trifle homesick, but she
was otherwise happy in Los Angeles. Her
work was satisfying even so stern a critic
as Ezra J. Toms, her associates in the
office were congenial and her life with Luella
was delightful. Then one day she opened
the “Examiner” and her heart leapt. Across
the top of the front page ran a huge
streamer i
“Unknown Boxer K.O.’s Bark McCabe
in Kangarooland.”
“Unknown!” cried Phyllis, indignantly.
“And they’ve got a portrait of Patsy under-
lie“ What’s it cost to send a cable to Aus-
tralia?” she called to Luella m the next
room. . , I,
Luella rushed in. The mention of a cab
made her apprehensive that something
tragic had happened to upset Phyllis.
Phyllis waved the newspaper. friend
of mine has just knocked out your cham-
pion. Good-oh! Australia will be there.
How do you purse-proud and ostentatious
Yanks like that?” . . ~ ,
She was now on sufficiently friendly term
with Luella to insult her cheerfully. Luella
scanned the page. “Why, do you kno
this boy?” she asked.
“He’s a dear,” replied Phyllis. Hes one
of my best friends. Came down to see
me off when I left. Why, I’ve even kissed
him —me, a proper Aussie like me.
“He sure must be some boy, laughed
Luella. “Well, about two dollars fifty
for a week-end’ll see the cable thiough.
When Patsy visited the Stadium next
afternoon he was handed an envelope, ti
tore it open and read: ■nu,,u;< ! ’»
“Los Angeles Cal congratulations
Patsy grinned with joy. Thats good,
he commented to himself. „
“Who’s that one from? inquired Butt
Cody, who. to-day, was e , a !? n ? “jS
much as the late Kaiser Wilhelm
have borne himself on the outbreak of the
Great War. . „
“Miss Deane, in America. ,
“She’s a nice young lady, that, observed
Buff.
Chapter XXIX.
Patsy was the middleweight champion o
Australia. “The best man we ye had since
Les Darcy,” was repeated on all «
critics united to find virtues in his pecul a
ties hitherto subject to censure. Public
interest in his doings extended ai •
the sporting section. His personal p P
larity and his general character and
havior, carefully exploited to the utm_» .
De Vernay, led many people who had
looked askance on pugilism to regaid Pat.
as the one just man in a Gomonah o
punch. “That fellow Quirk seems to be a
very decent sort, according to all repoit--.
was a frequent comment among peop
usually had little interest m the ring and
De Vernay took good care to inspire them
and direct their steps towards the box-
office of the Stadium. , ,
“Who’s this ’ere Themy Stockels. asked
Buff Cody.


E&A
ROUT!
(Tjo CHI NA^jAPAN
San
/YOKOHAMA
KOBE NAGQY^
MOJI U Q%A*A
wkwmvjC
MANILA
A2S> __
/w
RABAUI
:::\ TnSvNSVlltt
.ftftJABANE
• •:■V-v’/.'-'VTsYON'ir
MLLaOURNt
from
Sydney
MSr«
■ ■
■■
mm
m
&
SSS3*
During December and January in Japan
the Winter sports, bracing air and
exhilarating clear freshness ensure an
invigorating, health-giving holiday.
A special inclusive tour, including twelve days
in japan, can be arranged for £135/10/- from
Sydney, first saloon, only the land portion being
subject to exchange.
S.S. Nankin sails Nor. 12
S.S. Nellore sails Dec. 14
S.S. Tanda sails Jan. 14
Round Trip Steamer Fares
Sydney to Yokohama:
First £9O; Second £56/15/-
(No Exchange)
Passengers making round trip may live on board
E. & A. steamers at all ports.
joint Passenger Agents'.
GIBBS, BRIGHT 8C CO.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON 8C CO.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
Patsy picked up the newspaper and read
an interview he was supposed to have
given full of poetic quotations and classical
allusions.
“Cripes!” he cried. “De Vernay s piling
it on a bit thick.”
“Have a heart,’.’ he protested later to De
Vernay. “I. don’t want to look a damn
fool. It’s all right with the push on the
bleachers, but people who know a bit about
these things’ll reckon I’m getting a head
like a pumpkin. They know well enough
that I’m as ignorant as Paddy’s pig. Any-
body would think to read this stuff that
all these old-time Dagoes were as well-
known to me as any mates of mine at the
Bondi camp. Cut it out.”
De Vernay smiled. “You have yet to
learn with what little wit the world is
governed. The earlier Moltke said that.
I think I’ll make you quote it in your next
interview. We’ll get away from the classics
this time.”
“If you do I’ll knock your block off,”
laughed Patsy.
“I’m not an aspirant for championship
honors, Patsy,” observed De Vernay, “so
I’ll treat your challenge with contempt. But
you must recognise that it’s more than ever
essential that your name is kept before the
public. The great adage that competition
is the soul of trade is never more strongly
exemplified than in that branch of com-
merce known as pugilism. A French philo-
sopher once observed that Fortune really
sells what we think she gives. Champion-
ships are one of her Grecian gifts. They
have a string on them which is a veritable
cable. Being a champion must be extremely
gratifying to one’s vanity, but it is apt to
curtail one’s earnings. Where are your
opponents coming from now, Patsy? Have
you ever thought of that?”
“Too right I have,” said Patsy. “Buff
and I have been worrying over it ever
since I outed Bark. I thought there’d be
a bunch after me, but they seem shy. Buff
doesn’t want me to go out of my class, but
I fancy I’ll have to.”
“We’ve got one fellow in view—Cleary,
of Cessnock. He’s got a great name around
the northern coalfields; a regular caveman
he’s supposed to be, more like a seismic
disturbance than a human being, and trains
on blood puddings.”
“Have a heart!” cried Patsy. “Keep
that for the publicity. But I guess there’s
something in what they say; nearly all
these fighters with big reputations in the
bush are strong as horses. The trouble is
they’ve lost their activity.”
Chop Cleary was the very antithesis of
a caveman in appearance. He was one of
those long, lathy men who can hit a much
solider punch than anticipated from their
physique, as sturdier men on the coalfields
had found. Neither was he entirely with-
out skill; his very awkwardness in the
ring proved disconcerting to boxers
accustomed to fight according to conven-
tions. His record was an unbeaten one—
a fact stressed by De Vernay in all the
publicity. What De Vernay did not men-
tion was that among all his victims was
not one man who had made a decent show-
ing in metropolitan company.
Largely through the efforts of De Vernay,
Patsy drew a solid cheque as the result
of the fight. De Vernay had hailed Cleary
as a new find—a tough, rough tiger-cat of
a man who had mown his way through a
score of adversaries by the K.O. route. He
broadcast the publicity throughout the
mining areas of the North, and worked up
the local enthusiasm until the blackened
residents veritably believed that another
Darcy had been unearthed. It was a repe-
tition of Patsy’s advent in Sydney, save
that the stream flowed from the North.
Not that Sydney failed to rise to the bait
so temptingly set; in addition to the
Northerners who came by the special trains,
there was a local attendance of fully five
thousand, eager to witness the crash of the
irresistible body with the immovable object.
Largely through Patsy’s tolerance, Cleary
stood up for fifteen rounds. To the on-
lookers it was an ‘even fight until the
twelfth; but to Patsy’s corner the issue was
never in doubt after the first exchanges.
Cleary was a tough snag to the man who
had known nothing better; but he was a
gift to any of the men Patsy had defeated
during the past eighteen months.
Six weeks later there was a repetition of
the Cleary episode when a crowd of Mel-
bourne sportsmen brought out one, Red
Smith, who had jumped into fame by
knocking out Loubet in the fifth. State
prejudice led these misguided people to
imagine that they had a champion in their
rufous boxer. Patsy found that he could
have sent Smith to sleep before the first
minute had been ticked off; but he had
become a master of his craft, and realised
that he was now a showman as well as a
sportsman. There is no great and lasting
popularity for the man who gives the
public little for its money; Patsy had
developed into something of a business man.
So it was that it was not until the eighteenth
round that he handed to Red Smith the
easy clip on the jaw that enabled the thou-
sands to reach their homes.
De Vernay failed to put it over in the
West. By some means or other the people
of Perth declined to accept their champion
at the estimate the press-agent had placed
upon him. Possibly they knew too much
about him. Whatever the reason, the
house was mediocre, and Patsy finished with
only a few pounds over his expenses.
They were at a dead-end again. Pats3’
was forced to go out of his class. He fought
and outpointed two Sydney heavies, and
had a third and highly profitable match
with Bark McCabe. The American made
a showing less favorable than in the earlier
fights. He was plainly on the down-grade,
while Patsy was continuing to improve in
every bout.
Then Patsy was left with only one possible
opponent—the heavyweight champion of
Australia. The match was made, and public
interest ran high, though the result was a
foregone conclusion to all who followed the
game closely. Douglas Ryan—as magnifi-
cent a specimen of man as the gladiators
at the gates of Centennial Park—was as
helpless as Chop Cleary when he was pitted
against the springs and steel which Patsy
Quirk had now become. Patsy could have
scored a knock-out had he wished; he chose
to pile up the points and let the fight run
the full distance. Patsy was champion of
Australia, with nobody within hearing to
throw out the challenge which would mean
more honor and'more profit.
“I didn’t say anything to you,” announced
De Vernay as he strolled into the camp
at Ben Buckler a few days after Patsy had
won the heavyweight championship. “But
I’ve been swapping cables with the other
side of the world for a couple of months
past. I’ve got one offer from the Ring at
Blackfriars—that’s London—and another
from Dreamland, San Francisco. The Eng-
lish one seems the best at first sight, but
there’s a catch in it. They offer a match
with the middleweight champion of Eng-
land. Of course, that’s a big thing for a.
start, but it means you’re cut off from any
other English matches if you win. But the
Yanks won’t give you a cut at their cham-
pion. They say you must work your way
up. To my mind, that’s an advantage if
you’ve got a winner. It means money,
money, all along the line. If you’re agree-
able, our people will see you through as
far as they’re able.”
For a week there were solemn conclaves
discussing probabilities and making esti-
mates. Patsy and Buff talked the matter
over, forwards and backwards, and sideways.
Patsy dashed down to Illawarra and saw his
people and Wellington. They had meetings
at Stan’s studio, where Stan and Jimmy
Packington took a hand in the debate. Copp
and Gaffney were called in to give expert
advice regarding the American end of the
project. At the end of the week De Vernay
dispatched a cable to Dreamland accept-
ing the offer, and announcing that Patsy
Quirk, with his trainer, Buff Cody, and his
manager, Cyril de Vernay, would leave
Sydney on the Ventura in a month.
“Yes,” said Gaffney when he heard the
news, “you’ll have a good time in San
Francisco. It’s a great little town, though
not many people down my way would
admit it.”
“What?” cried Copp, indignantly.
“ ’Frisco! Why, the place’s dead. It’s a
hick burg. Los Angeles has put it all over
it. That’s the place for you boys to go.
“All the same, I’ll give you some letters
to a few of the finest people you could
meet there,” persisted Gaffney.
Copp gave him a withering look, as if
he had been guilty of the deepest treachery.
“And I’ll do the same at Los Angeles,” he
retorted. “And you mustn’t forget when
you go down there to look up Ezra James
president of the Toms Agency, Incorpo-
rated. And, while you’re there you can
tell that little friend of yours that the
things Ezra James writes about- her work’d
put Ella Wheeler Wilcox on the blink.”
Patsy’s heart leapt. He had forgotten
that Phyllis was at Los Angeles, and that
Los Angeles was not so far from San
Francisco—not as far as Sydney is from
Melbourne. He might be seeing Phyllis—
he would see her. Even if his fights failed
to take him to the southern end of Cali-
fornia, he would certainly take a trip down
the coast to look up a fellow-Aussie—the
fellow-Aussie who had kissed him twice
and made him feel more helpless than any
of the solidest punches he had ever taken
in the ring.
(To be continued next week.)
Winter Afternoon.
A sea of level opal, and a sun
Already veering to a sombre west.
The mists have left the hollows and begun
Their wanderings on a chilly-handed quest
For something that was lately and is gone,
Some clue to summer’s kindness that is
lost.
The hillside oaks, cerise and cinnamon
Are haggard with the kisses of the frost.
One autumn lark still singing somewhere in
The last long golden glances of the sun ;
A little wind that fingers through the thin
Strings of the harping slmoaks, one by
one;
Odor of leaf and mushroom-scented mould;
Convolvulus closed against early dew ;
The few dim stars of dandelion gold
That spattered the .stiff grasses, folded too.
Down drops the sun, his lessened grandeur
lost
In waves of watery vapors, silver cool,
Blurred and indefinite, as though one had
tossed
A crimson pebble in a cloudy pool.
All dark, and from the curtained window
bars
Of Heaven, beyond the headlands and the
dune.
High in the west a branch of winter stars
Is flowering double, in the skies of June.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


*
3
5
S
Lubricate
me! \
dont
qrease
Drift
Apologies to .
“Life of Car Is Directly Propor-
tionate to Care of Lubrication—"
(Fred Berry In Smith’s Weekly, Dec. 6,1931)
ALEMITE
High Pressure Lubrication Sys-
tem services EVERY lubrication
point, every metal-to-metal bear-
ing surface with the special ALEMITE Lubricant designed to
give protection unknown to ordinary greasing methods.
To get more car miles—a year or more of added service—see
that ALEMITE —the high pressure System of forced lubrication
brings specialized ALEMITE Lubricants to the wear-surfaces
of your car. Order "ALEMITE” instead of "grease”—for
smoother, easier, more economical performance and longer
motor life. ALEMITE Service may be had at the better stations,
but if yours is not equipped as yet, a card to any of the dealers
listed below will bring all particulars: K-Aust. 11-32
ALEMITE CORPORATION Chicago,U.S.A.
Cable Address: ALMIT- Chicago
MR. KENNETH I. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S.W.
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt St., Sydney MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie St„ Adelaide
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
1
xV 1 //
//y
X
Mr Can
m
Mr Can’t
How are you spending the Summer ? Like
Mr Can—fit, happy right in the swim ?
Or like Mr Can’t —slack, irritable thor-
oughly out of it ? What’s spoiling all his
fun is neglected foodways. What’s making
Mr Can so joyous is Eno. For goodness*
sake, be like him and keep your system up
to the mark. It’s Eno every morning that
does it I
Enos Fruit Salt’
9t' n V
LrinJ
'3Z2
Nothing can be more important to your health
and happiness and success in life — than the
daily inner cleansing which Eno gives you. Even
as you drink your Eno, you know you need it —
you can FEEL it doing you good. Toning and tun -
ing'Up your system. Cleaning and purifying.
Relieving the cause of stuffiness and headaches
and depression. Take Eno every morning.
c&he words &no and "'tfruit Salt” are registered trade marks.
Sales exigents: c 3'Ae SBritish SMarold ( zf. Slitckie Go. £td. Sydney.
The Red Shilling.
BY MARGARET FANE AND HILARY LOFTING.
'"T'VHE small hissing sound that came from
Lewis Gale’s lips was the only sound
in the room for the moment. Old Pom-
fret’s first startled cry had risen and died
away, cut short by the axe and Lew’s tre-
mendous fist.... There’d be talk about this,
down at the Quincy pub and on the roads
and down in Sydney; and he, Lew Gale, was
doing it. Young Lew, as strong as three
men, as old Pomfret had often said. But
old Pomfret wouldn’t curse him any more, or
take the strap to him.
The red, brassy-looking sun was lower in
the sky now, when he came back into the
storeroom to take a last look round. He’d
been pretty cunning; but you cipuldn’t tell
—there might be some small thing left to
give it away. Pomfret was safe at the
bottom of the old disused well. The cashbox
was buried down by the creek—he’d come
back for that; it would never do to be
spending money in the township and neigh-
borhood. He’d come back for the cash when
it was all blown over and forgotten; and
what a time he’d have with all that cash!
The toe of his boot touched something in
the dust. He kicked it out. A shilling. He
stooped and picked it up. Red —red under
the dust. Watching it, his face was sud-
denly grey and haggard, as if a lost, help-
less shadow had darkened it. Panic seized
and shook him; swiftly he stooped again and
wiped the blood off the shilling in the dust —
feverishly, urgently, as if all the world
depended on this shilling becoming white
again. Now —in this moment... .his fumb-
ling great hands worked while his breath
came in short heavy gasps. Old Pomfret’s
shilling—in his pocket it had been.
At last it was white again, and Lew
slipped it into his pocket.
Suddenly very tired and empty, he shut
the storeroom door and walked away down
the track, his shambling, high-stepping gait
making grotesque shadows against the red
westering sun.
Sometimes it seemed that the night would
never come, sometimes that it would never
be day again, but always this red dusty light
staining the bush and the track and all the
twilit watching . world. He shambled dog-
gedly on, piling up the miles between Quincy
and himself. He was hungry and thirsty,
but it was nothing ; tired to the very bone,
but that was nothing, too —if you’d worked
since you were a kid for old Pomfret you
were used to going on long after you were
fit to drop.
Night did come at last, and a quiet cool
moon, bland and gentle in the sky where
the sun had been so red and passionate. A
little drizzle of rain washed the bush clean,
and ceased. He plodded on through it, glad
of the coolness, until at length he could
walk no more.
Day also came, sudden and fiery, burning
his eyelids until he rolled over and turned
his back on the rising sun. Hunger now was
a sharp pain, but the heavy fatigue was not
yet out of his limbs, and he remained in his
bracken bed in drowsy thought.
There was a good time coming, and he,
young Lew, was the fellow to tackle a good
time in style. A couple of new suits and
a pair of tan shoes: one of those soft white
collars «jrregson, the Quincy lawyer, wore ;
a good clean shave and a pocketful of cash —
they’d look at him all right, down in Sydney,
when he was all set. H’e’d give it a couple
of months, and then go back and dig up the
cash-box; there was enough in it to see him
through a real good time and still leave a
bit over.
Style—that was it. Do it in style. And
he knew what style was, too. They wouldn’t
forget him in a hurry, those that saw him
down in Sydney, spending his money.
Girls, too —they’d better watch it when
Lew Gale was out having his good time.
Girls were brittle; he could crush them as
soon as look at them.
The thought seemed to drive the fatigue
abruptly out of his body and to bring back
the hunger-pain. He stumbled to his feet,
shook the leaves and grass, out of his clothes
as a dog shakes rain from his coat, and
turned into the track. Below him a town-
ship huddled in the morning sunshine; he’d
walk down to it and try to get a bite of
food there. Try to? He would get a bite of
food there —he’d like to see the township
that could stop him.
This hit of a township would sit up if it
knew the kind of man that was walking
down into it now. It wasn’t often Horley
saw a real live murderer, he’d be bound.
The woman in the butcher’s shop glanced
up as he entered.
“You’re early,” she said, with a half-smile.
“On the road, missus,” he told her.
She glanced at him again. “Where’s your
swag?” she asked.
“A couple of pounds of steak,” he said
curtlv. “and no fat.”
She flushed, and cut the steak in silence.
He took ine newspaper parcel and gave her
the ten-shilling note. Still in silence, she
threw his change on the counter.
Picking it up, Lew started back, a sudden
stifled cry at his lips. One of the shillings
was red ! A monstrous hand of terror seemed
to touch his shoulder, crushing him.
Surprised, the woman’s eyes followed his
staring gaze. “Oh, sorry,” she said, and
picked up the shilling and wiped it on her
apron. “There was blood on my thumb
from the steak.”
Her steady, quiet eyes glanced at him for
the third time as he turned and shambled
out of the shop.
The glare of the dusty street seemed to
heave itself up into his face. He stumbled
out of the township with his parcels, and
took the first track away from the road into
the bush. He lit his fire; while the steak
was toasting he was eating great hunks of
bread-and-butter and staring bewildered at
the fire. But he felt that he was staring
at nothing but the red shilling on the
counter.
He got up at last and wandered on. The
red shilling that was ever before his eyes
started a flicker of terror in every patch of
undergrowth, every clump of grass—not the
fear of being caught and arrested for the
murder of old Pomfret, but a nameless
terror, a panic without shape or definition.
As if the world hated and despised him, as
if the undergrowth and grass were watching
and hunting him in contempt!
He wandered on bewildered through this
changed world while the sun rose to Ins
noon. He forgot the good time and the
style, the way all Sydney would be looking
at him spending his money ; the bottom had
fallen out of everything; he was helpless
and aimless. The sun came down from his
zenith to make the long afternoon shadows,
and dusk crept along the road on Lew s
heels, wandering doggedly on. The moon
rode softly into the sky; a little breeze
made the shadows whisper and mutter as
he passed.
Blind fatigue at last took the place of all
thought, all hopeless puzzles and bewilder-
ment, and he turned once more into the
bush, fumbling his way to a deep patch of
bracken again.
The sun, coming up like a vast red shil-
ling, found him awake and staring vacantly
at the horizon. Something must be done;
even now, in full daylight, the muttering
moonlit shadows seemed to be peering all
round him in mocking scorn.
A thought pierced, burning, through the
heavy confusion. Lew’s dulled unhappy eyes
gleamed; he licked his lips as the soft
chuckle sounded faintly in his throat. li'is
huge right hand on the grass opened sud-
denly and slowly closed again—ha'rd, so
that the great brown knuckles looked like
marble. That was it. That was the only
way he could become a man again, the
mighty man he was the day before yesterday,
with life and death in his hands. He must
do it again.
He stood up, shaking the leaves and grass
from his clothes, and turned towards the sun,
red and splendid, low down on the horizon.
It was hot and he was parched with
thirst; he seemed to have been walking for
days in the cruel heat without a sight of a
drop of water or a house where one could
be got. He turned into the bush for a spell
in the shade, following sub-consciously a
half-obliterated track. A hundred yards from
the road the track turned abruptly, and he
found himself looking at a small cottage
buried in the bush. Here was a drink of
water. _ •
The old woman shelling peas on the step
looked up.
“Hallo, son,” she said, smiling rather
rapidly. “You look all tired out. The heat
gettin’ you down?”
“Yes, missus.” Lew took off his hat and
wiped his forehead, making his heavy face
go soft and pathetic in the way that he knew.
“I’m on the road, and it’s a cruel hard game
looking for work these times.”
“I should think it was,” she agreed, her
eyes all sympathy and compassion. “And
you can’t find any?”
“No. You haven’t got a drink of water
you can spare, have you, missus?”
“Deary me, of course I have.” She hur-
ried into the cottage and brought him a tall
glass of sparkling water. While he was
gulping it her anxious, slightly vacant eyes
watched him. “Where’s your swag?” she
ftskcd.
His eyes drooped pathetically again. “I
haven’t got one,” he confessed. “I thought
I’d get work in a few miles.”
Her tongue clicked sympathetically. “Dear,
dear, it’s bad, isn’t it? When did you eat
last?”
“Yesterday, breakfast-time,” he told her.
“People are pretty hard, these times.”
“Oh my gracious goodness me!” she ex-
claimed in a flutter of anxious concern. “And
a great boy like you—you need your food,
son. You can’t go on without it.” She
wrung her hands nervously in her apron.
“You sit right down under that tree,” she
ordered, “and have a bit of a rest. And I’ll
have a good dinner for you in no time —a
real good dinner.”
Here it was!
He was half-way through his dinner before
he saw it; noticing the frailness of her neck
when she brought him his second helping
showed it to him.
“The times are bad,” she admitted, admir-
ing his appetite, “but a great lad like you
ought to be able to get a job. You must be
as strong as a horse.”
“Yes, I’ll get it in time, missus,” he said,
stretching liis legs under the table. t “How
do you make out in the bad times?”
“Oh, I’ve got the pension and a little bit
my husband left me some twenty years ago”
—her gaze fluttered uncertainly to the little
shelf in the corner and fluttered back —“bad
times don’t make so much difference to us
old folk, you know, son.”
“No, I suppose they don’t. You’re lucky,
missus.” He pushed back his plate and sat
in thought for a moment, watching the thin
lines of her throat. What was that she
said? Bit her old man left her? He glanced
over to the little shelf. That old-fashioned
tea-box —caddy, they called it. Pomfret had
one —that’d be it. The old girl was a fool
to give it away like that—bit silly in the
head, she seemed. His gaze came back to
her throat while he sat very still. A faint
tumult, like an echo, was beginning in the
room already.
She sighed. “If anybody’s lucky with the
country in this awful state,” she said, getting
up from her chair. “I’ll take your plate, son,
and get you another cup of tea.”
The tumult rose swiftly, filling the cottage
and the bush as he leapt upon her. Waves
of splendor swept over him, down his arms
into his great hands, iron round her throat.
Her staring eyes peered back into his, and
he laughed and shook tin; great hands until
her head rolled back and forth like the head
of a broken doll. A faint hissing came
softly from his lips until he could feel the
bones in her throat droop like water. He
loosed his hold, and the frail body crumpled
to the floor.
That was it. Here was the power surging
back, the glory that made him king of the
world.
But first, this tea-caddy. He hadn’t done'-
it for that, but you got what you could; you
never knew when you might want it. The
caddy was locked; but Lew’s hands were as
good as any key to a little box like that.
Soon it burst open.
The red shillings streamed out in a flood,
showering over his hands, over the table, on
the floor about his feet.
A wild scream from his throat tore up
into the brazen sky, and another and another.
He tried to leap away from the red shillings
about his feet, but they rolled, following him.
He brushed them off liis hands, while scream
after scream hurled itself at the listening day.
The tumult surged up into a monstrous
dread, heavy with horror, savage and impla.c-
able. Cringing in terror beneath its tide, he
was half-aware of running footsteps.
But the red sovereigns showering over the
world were still his spirit, crushing out even
the bursting-open of the kitchen door.


NEVER REAUY 111 - YET NEVER REALIY
I
We all know that half-and-half 1 feeling. Not downright
ill—-yet far from well. That feeling which comes on Mondays,
after an indiscreet week-end. You get it, too, with certain
winds, and at the change of the seasons.
When buying be sure
you get DR. MORSE'S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS ,
which are enclosed in the
familiar blue wrapper.
Often you get it without any apparent
reason. You are a bore to yourself and
a nuisance to others, and life seems to
have something missing. The trouble
may be trivial —it may be serious, but
in either case it is Nature’s warning, so
take heed in time.
You will notice an improvement
lll-111 immediately on taking Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. They rectify the trouble at its very source;
through the blood stream. Maybe it’s Indigestion or Dyspepsia;
perhaps it s Constipation or Liver I rouble. Is it Kidney
Trouble or Stomach Acidity?
In any case Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will help you.
Dr. Morse's
wWHwmnmminiHniiniiiH
*
M
tovvwvw
I
■fcs
PILLS
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY AUSTRALIANS FOR AUSTRALIANS
Fidgety
Children
Are often the
Victims of Worms
A child who is affected with Thread
)\ orms will often appear to the eye to be
in an indifferent state of health. It be-
comes peevish and irritable in its temper.
Another point to w’hich the attention of
mothers should be specially directed is
that the child is apt to start in its sleep,
its repose being in the way of a disturbed
nature.
Unfortunately, many mothers' fail to
recognise the fact, that their little ones are
suffering intense pain and distress, and
are practically irresponsible for the out-
bursts of temper, restlessness and peevish-
ness, and until some more serious symptoms
appear nothing is done to alleviate the
distress. The symptoms of this disease
are somewhat variable, but generally they
are so characteristic that no mother need
have any doubt. The best proof of worms
is worms, and if the general conduct of
the child is such as to give the slightest
suspicion a careful watch will give ample
proof.
Worms, by their movement and the inter-
ruption they offer to the contents of the
bowels, generally occasion pain or uneasi-
ness in the abdomen, sometimes spasmodic,
sometimes gnawing and biting, and not in-
frequently of a vague, indescribable charac-
ter, and yet Aery distressing. Sympathetic
with this is a sensation of itching at the
nostrils, producing a disposition to pick the
nose, which is characteristic of the affection.
The boAvels are often disordered, sometimes
relaxed, as in dysentery. The appetite is
exceedingly variable: in some cases natural,
in others deficient, craving or depraved,
one condition not infrequently alternating
with another. The abdomen is often hard,
swollen and tympanetic, the breath heavy
or foetid, and tongue furred, with disagree-
able taste, and a copious flow of saliva;
swelling of the upper lip, bleeding of the
nostrils, and disposition to grind the teeth
during sleep are other characteristic symp-
toms. The effects, however, often extend
beyond the alimentary canal, and \ r arious
derangements of health are experienced in
consequence, either of the direct irritation
of the worms or of the disordered digestion
which they occasion. Among the most
common of these are nervous affections,
such as fretfulness, irritation of temper,
wakefulness or disposition to excessive
sleep, disturbed sleep, sudden starting out
of sleep as if from fright, dizziness,
spasmodic movements of the eyelids, tem-
porary blindness and deafness. General
convulsions are not infrequent in children,
and symptoms strongly resembling “Water
on the Brain” have been ascribed to worms,
and have ceased on their expulsion.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal prepara-
tion compounded on a scientific principle
for the eradication of worms Avhich infest
the intestines. They contain specific
properties which destroy the w’orms, but
cause no injury to the stomach or bowels,
and do not weaken the system. The pellets
are prepared in the form of a confection
or lolly, have no disagreeable taste or smell,
but on the contrary inspire children to take
them as they Avould an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney.
Price 4/- per packet (six packets 23/-),
post free.
If writing, please mention “The Bulletin.”
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
iletCn.
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney
Please forward The! Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia 12 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas -12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
df
0°
e ,1)
A\ e ir
# s
•••;
.• • ’ o/*' 6 ’
■•' 4$ >'*>
c*V<i'


TQ HIS MfiJ€SfV
FINE
IQ&rhu
m
L
MS
m
John'De
NE
Distjii
ers
N£
CO
NT
°*&E*
r Mf
a Sk
\*
5
m
F
N
71
-
3*£
m
u
to
t >
m
is
v\w\
l\.
L 7
W
\
A
I I
THOROUGHBRED
In a man, in a horse, in a
whisky—one appreciates
the thoroughbred. And
fine breeding is ever
apparent. You would
recognise it in Dewar’s,
even though you knew
nothing of the age-old
Dewar tradition and repu-
tation. You would recog-
nise it in the fine, subtle
bouquet and the rare,
inimitable flavour which
Dewar’s possesses because
it is Dewar’s.
DEWARS
SCOTCH WHISKY
Bottled only in Bond under Government Supervision,
