

imperious Portus
C"i
a
i ,
JEKSSasi
£a£sfi&
iu !
...and indispensable Pelherbridge
l+m
.
re
.•and important Parkinson
i\^
(k
4i
ti
...down to poor plodding Peters
-IO k I». CAPSTAN
410 for 6d.
The Bulletin
f\fo<Af lAituxi AhjQiA&dL do P P.B
Vol. 53.—N0. 2709.
Wednesday, January 13, 1932.
Price 6d.
Eegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Qim Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
with full terms and particulars post
free, on application to
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
fee
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence Colleae
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. 0 ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ‘ 3
My Name
Mv Address -
s.b.m ~7.7.7***“'
L-'YSAGHT
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries*
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
\ Perfect Tellet Trie
ilk
g£?«m»rs3
MEDICINAL
To Keep Your Skin in
Perfect Condition
Cleanse your face regularly with
Cutieura Soap and hot water.
Rinse well. If there are pimples
or rashes gently smear with a
little Cutieura Ointment five
minutes before the bathing.
Cutieura Talcum gives the per-
fect finishing touch to the toilet.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free. Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Cutieura Shaving Stick Is. 6d,
“THE AGE”
Established, 1854,
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
In business to-day .it is essential to
keep moving forward—pushing ideas
and using every legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sales in Victoria have not
reached the high level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By
this means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence- in our
publication, which for three generations
lias been the Business Builder that dis-
criminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
Che Ww Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and up-to-the-minute”
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the “N.Z. Referee”
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
THE PATRIOT
dsf
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT
Sydney Rep.: H, C. HINCHCLIFEE
2 HUNTER STREET.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men l
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland*s
Entire Population .
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
Che Brisbane Courier,
has a Circulation which is
approximately
68%
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary .
* * *
You can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market from :
Che Brisbane Courier,
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
IIOBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STKEET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrbbe Streets. ’Phone F39(XJ,
London Agent*- H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
Special Announcement
to National Advertisers
Clk mercury
Tasmania’s National Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance .with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
AssociatioA of National Advertisers,
I 9 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—•
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” H.obart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building
Elizabeth Street.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-1 ( Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
ot the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
S 2 50 Geor « e Sydney"
or 404 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d .
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Short Stories
I he good short story is no more than
episode. The reader is allowed to pee
through a shutter during a brief epoch in
life. The stage in the life where the episod
occurs is immaterial. De Maupassant gav
his spinster heroine, Harriet, her grea
moment after death when, for the firs'
time, a man kissed her on the lips. A shor
story may be a social or a historica
criticism, or it may cast a sudden ligh
on a mentality. In “The Procurator o
Judaea” Anatole France shows the agein
Pilate and a friend gossiping about ole
times. The name of Jesus crops up:—
Pontius Pilate contracted his brows, and his han
rose to his forehead in the attitude of one who probe
the deeps of memory. Then after a silence of som
seconds—“ Jesus?” he murmured, “Jesus of Naza
reth? I cannot call him to mind.”
The surprise or shock ending, of whic
this is perhaps the best example in literature
is much favored by the modems. Bierce
Henry, Wells, Conrad, Maugham, Bennet,
and other masters have made free use of it
yet it is by no means essential to dramati
effect. Ethel Mannin, a notable technician
has few examples of it in her new boo
Green Figs (Jarrolds; 7s. 6d.). She is
social satirist with a witty, fleering touch
and she writes chiefly of cranky, rather dis
solute intellectuals for the good reason tha
she knows them best. The sketch which
gives her book its title is about two youn
people who meet from time to time a
London night clubs, insult each other afte
the manner of characters in a Noel Cowarc
play, and fall desperately in love. Th
young man announces his intention o
marrying Letty (“Sweet and kind...
Utterly feminine”). The girl says (“Some
thing in her was weeping”):—
“She’ll bore you in a fortnight.”
“I don’t know. Have you noticed that one neve
gets tired of bread and butter? Cocktails an
olives and green figs are an acquired taste lik
Gertrude Stein.”
After a while the girl marries anothe
man, and the story ends:—
If you mention Toby to Dale she smiles and says
“An amusing creature, but completely superficial.
If you mention Dale to Toby he shrugs and says
“She’s interesting, but she has no emotions, sh
merely reacts.”
But Miss Mannin is at her bitter, sophisti
cated best when she avoids sentimentalism
“Kept Man,” a wicked gibe at lovely youth
who think they have a right to be sup
ported in or out of wedlock by rich females
is the gem of her collection, in this Page’
opinion.
James Hanley’s Men in Darkness (The
Bodley Head; 7s. 6d.) deals with the othe
end of the social scale. Mr. Hanley’
characters suffer almost intolerable miserie
so that the people whom Miss Mannin
knows may drink and loaf. He isn’t
skilled writer. He repeats himself over anc
over again, uses a dozen words where six
or less would have sufficed, wallows in
emotionalism; but in the end he says what
he wants to say. “Greaser Anderson” is
typical of his method. Anderson is out of
a job and getting old. He has an orphan
grandson (“his last barrier against loneli-
ness”) and a precious document—a testi-
monial from the shipping company that he
worked for during the war. He takes this
talisman that will save him and the boy to
his old office, shows it to a doorkeeper, and
asks to be led to a director.
The big man tried his best to conceal a smile
that was slowly threatening to stretch from ear to
ear....
“Hell! Don't make me laugh. Why, thousands
of bloody men got those things. Even the King
had millions printed, but they’re no bloody good,
You ought to know that by now.” ..
The unfortunate old man persists mulishly
in his efforts to see the director; gets drunk;
pushes blaspheming into the office when the
doorman’s back is turned; is laughed at by
the clerks; falls doWh. Suddenly all the
virtue goes out of him:—
Mr. Anderson was dumb. It seemed that like
Moussorgsky’s Idiot he was empty. .He was done.
He had said his say. Nothing more to be said and
nothing more to be done.
The doorman throws him into the street.
This is the least pitiful of the five tales
that comprise Men in Darkness. They are
meant to be indictments of the social
system, yet, paradoxically, they supply
arguments in its favor. The system may be
cruel/ but one feels after reading this book
that remorselessness is implicit in a society
organised to control such men. Most of
them are as remorseless as animals them-
selves, and stupider.
Vance Palmer’s stories, which have been
drought together in Separate Lives (Stanley
Paul; 7s. 6d.), deal
with the sea, the
Australian coast,
the Backblocks,
Flanders in war-
time. He has a
piercing eye, and
the craft to put what he "has seen into crisp
prose. Not a word missing, not,a word too
much. His characters don’t agonise—they
are serene, almost stolid, as a rule—and
posture or talk for effect. “The
Lme is triumphantly Australian: it natu-
lalises the idioms and outlook of the bush
in France. Some Diggers are moving up to
the front trenches. Snowy hasn’t been under
fire, and is afraid of being afraid.
Suddenly a roaring like a. burst dam, a rocking
oi the ground beneath him, a blaze of light! He
*°“*l and hfte . d in tho air a,ld nun S across the
he fell The g h°T d f rl l? hed t 0 him and
'?. e T t * l< : shock of it against his body, the taste
of it in his mouth; but though it seemed that the
world around him had split and gone up in smoke!
he was conscious of still being alive. Alive in one
tiny bi lghtly-lit section of his brain, anyhow!
And then—exhilaration, confidence The
W , O T? I s , over - has been done before
of Englishmen, Frenchmen and others, but
never better. In “Mrs. Ryan’s Willie”
you see a dead-and-alive bush township
during the war. The women on the look-
out for those who ought to be in 'uniform;
the anxious mother; the tired recruiting-
sergeant,. Willie is a futile lad who honestly
longs to go to the war; he offers himself,
is medically examined:—
ing'up 1 ’ D0C? ” he asked the sergeant, without look-
‘‘Wash-out,” muttered the doctor
what!”
y ash-out. Hammer-toe and varicose veins ”
Oncc more Mrs. Ryan’s Willie had failed to come
up to the scratch.
Artistically these stories are of a high
Older; but Mr. Palmer has no malice and
little indignation in his soul, and he has an
austere dislike of over-statement, so his
work is unexciting on the whole. I
• batch under consideration
A re Liars , by Roland Pertwec
(Hememann; 7s. 6d.). The volume con-
tains 662 pages and 30 stories. Mr. Pertwee
has the narrative faculty, a kind heart and
the moral and social outlook of a right-
thinking English gentleman. He is also a
specialist in whimsy. A sample ending:—
he Said ’ “ we ’ ll SO for a walk on
the Embankment—you.and me.”
and Thames ad Httle reason for disappoint-
ment that night. Indeed those two absurd young
people stayed there so long that the grev tidal
waters rose ever so many feet to listen to what
they were saying to one another.
RED PAGE.
The Douglas Mystery
Mr. Patrick Braybrooke wrote “a small
book about Oscar Wilde as a Man of Lot
ters, and met Lord Alfred Douglas. He
was so impressed that he immediately
thought of writing Lord Alfred Douglas—
His Life and Work (Cecil Palmer; 10s. 6d.),
and the idea “was received with approval.’’
It would be. Innumerable books and
pamphlets have been written about Wilde
in the past 30 years, and Douglas and his
rows have figured in most of them, but
he never seems to weary of having the
story retold. We get the details all over
again here. The first meeting with Wilde:
rw W j S 111 Chelsea that the man from
Oxford met the man who wrote.” The
three trials, and the part played by Douglas
m them. Paris, and Wilde’s death Dou°--
las’s marriage to Miss Custance. with im-
passioned letter lrom the lady. His editor-
ship of the “Academy,” and rows with the
proprietor. His friendship (and rows) with
Crosland. The Mumiers-Sutton libel; the
Ransome libel =- the rows with counsel and
Lord Darling. The row with his father-in-
law, and the break with Lady Alfred. The
Ross libel, in which he was charged with
calling Ross, amongst other things, “an
habitual corrupter of young boys,” and pro-
duced evidence that caused the Crown to
enter a nolle prosequi. His successful case
against the Evening News,” which, having
received a report that he was dead, had
published a defamatory obituary notice.
His libel on "W inston Churchill, for which
he got six months.
Several things combine to make this one
of the most unsatisfactory works that have
been written on the subject;, chiefly the
affected and derivative style, and the
absence of any serious attempt to explain
Douglas. He has been hated in
dui ing most of his adult life, and there is
a disposition to this day to deny him his
rightful place in literature. IMr. Bray-
brooke blames pre war narrow-mindedness.
The book is dotted with pompous irrele-
vancies such as:—
• , w^e the dear old Queen dozes
m Bucking-ham Palace, while the Galsworthy For-
sytes go on “Change,” the potential poet gets his
ticket clipped at Waterloo.
The time is the first few years of the present
century, and Edward the Peacemaker simply loves
{Red Page continued on puje 5 .)


“THE SENIOR STORE”
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.'—The Conscience oj Business.
Anthony Horderns'
USE OUR
“D.P.S.”
Deposit Purchase System.
First select the goods you require.
Leave a deposit on them, pay off the
balance in instalments and the purchase
is yours. You pay no interest at all,
nor any increase in price for the accom-
modation, but, on the contrary, you have
always the advantage of Anthony
Horderns’ “Famous Low Prices.’’
GENUINE
HALF-YEARLY
SALE
Send for your copy
of the
SALE CATALOGUE
POST FREE
on request.
THE PEOPLE’S SALE”—lncreasing the Effective Value of Money
Special opportunity to save on
INCUBATORS
d
£l3/10/-
Incubator,
£l2/15/-
American Cypher’s Incubators—
-2 only. 240-egg size. Price £25
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £22
2 only. 390-egg size. Price £3O
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £26
1930 Pattern Petaluma Mentatiss—
Price. Sale Price.
4 only. 126 hot-air type .. £l3/10/- £l2/15/-
1 only. 126 hot-water type . £l4/-/- £l3/-/-
1 only. 202 hot-air type .. £l9/7/6 £lB/-/-
2 only. 202 hot-water type . £2O/-/- £lB/10/-
1 only. 404 hot-water type . £34/-/- £32/-/-
1 only. 404 hot-air type .. £32/10/- £3O/10/-
(Department, Fourth Floor. Free Delivery City and
Substantial Savings in
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES
d
jgg
VARIETIES O
VEGETABLES
detachable
ALUMINIUM
LID COVER.
CONTAINERS FOR
PUDDINGS
ROASTS
AND BAK.ES
CONNECTS TO ANY
POWER. SUPPLY
o
omtJol
SWITCH
WHOLE COOKER
IS TRANSPORTABLE
“ONI” WATERLESS COOKER, £4/17/6
“Uni” Electric Waterless Cookers. A decided
advancement over all other cooking methods.
Compact, clean and hygienic. Will cook an
entire meal consisting of meat, vegetables and
sweets sufficient for nine persons at the one opera-
tion. Constructed of heavy gauge polished alu-
minium. Partly finished pale blue enamel. Heater
is three-heat controlled; maximum current con-
sumption, one unit per hour. Supplied with
complete instructions for Baking, Roasting, Stew-
ing, Grilling, etc. Price, £lO/1 0/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £4/17/6
m
'
“Uni” Vacuum
Cleaner, £6/2/6
The “Uni” latest model “C”
Electric Vacuum Cleaners.
Exceptionally strong suction,
light and compact. Supplied
complete with attachments
for cleaning walls, curtains,
furniture, upholstery, etc.
Price £7/7/-
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price £6/2/6
(. Electrical, Second Floor. Free Delivery City and
Suburbs only.)
ď
£6llOl- CUTLERY
CASES now
Cases of Cutlery, Spoons and
Forks. Packed in leather-
ette case containing six each
Table and Dessert Knives,
mirror-finished stainless steel,
six each silver-plated Tea,
Dessert and Soup Spoons,
Dessert and Table Forks.
đ
Price, per set £6/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 95/-
Jacobean Oak Canteen, containing 42 pieces, A 1 quality.
Price, £6/10/-. Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, set, £5/15/-
60/- 400-DAY
CLOCK 40/-
400-c3ay Clock. Brass and colored
enamelled dial and pillars, complete
with glass shade. Height overall
diameter Price, 60/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, 40/-
QARRIAGE NOT PAID ON
CLOCKS,
m
mrtipi ii-i 'tiHi i -J - •- ■
17/6 Alarm
Clocks 12/6
“Apollo,” 7 gin. high,
repeating and long
alarm, bell at back,
4in. radium dial.
Price 17/6
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price . . 12/6
( Cutlery and Clocks,
Ground Floor, Pitt
Street. Carnage Paid
on Cutlery only.)
Compare Quality for Quality
and Price for Price
STURDY
BOOTS
For Outdoor Wear.
I3n
d
Men’s Derby Boots
Men’s Derby Lace Boots. Stocked in
Tan or Black. Strong sewn soles.
Sizes, 5 to 10. Black 16/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, 13/11
Tan 17/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, 14/11
14 6 SPECIAL
WORK BOOTS
i
Anthony Horderns’ famous Work
Boots. Made of stout box hide.
Tan or Black. Standard screwed
and sewn soles of extra stout
leather. All sizes, 5 to 10.
Price 14/6
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price ....
13/6
ď
176
Surveyor’s Boot
Anthony Horderns’ Surveyors’ Boots.
In Tan or Black. Stout sewn, standard
screwed soles. Sprigged cut. Extra
high around ankles. All sizes!
Price I 8/6
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price
22/6 Box Calf Shoes
17/6
“Tree” Brand Box Calf
Shoes. Three styles.
Genuine welted soles. Full
and half sizes.
Price 22/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, 19/11
Men’s Boots, Ground Floor, George
Street. We Pay Carriage.
19|11
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
đ


INDOOROOPILLY
TOLL BRIDGE
£?-;»
<sr
Let us build a strong suspension bridge
From Chelmer to Indooroopilly’s ridge;
There’s quite a lot for us to do,
In nineteen-hundred-and-thirty -two.
The Government’s sanction has been
obtained,
By Order in Council the facts are pro-
claimed ;
The Harbor Boards Act sanctions the
scheme
And the Main lioads Commission joins
the regime.
The company is formed and all is 0.K.,
And now we are asking for money all
day;
We cannot commence till we have the
cash,
For ’tis not our intention to go with
a crash.
We believe you are looking for some-
thing real good
To lift you right out of the depressing
mood;
So many investments can't pay a red
cent,
But with this investment you’ll be quite
content.
There are plans to brood over dav after
day,
Material to buy and wages to pay.
The bridge must be opened, so now
with a will
Let us get real busy—the conditions
fulfil.
The picks and the shovels will delve
in the ground.
Compressors will chatter to steel drills
around,
The mixers of concrete will clatter and
turn
As they stir up the mixture like cream
in a churn.
Steel bars will be bent here and there
to a plan,
Then laced up in sections with ribs
like a fan:
They will grapple and grip the con-
crete together
And make it withstand all strains and
foul weather.
So the towers in outline imposing will
rise
And in their great height the mind will
surprise;
Their purpose you know provides all
the strength
To bear the great bridge when loaded
full length.
The money we’ll take in by day and
by night
Will put our depression completely to
flight;
They will throw in their cash and speed
right along,
For the bridge will be high, the road-
way be strong.
So, like the stream rolling on and on,
Reflecting towers, girders and cables
strong—
So will the busy stream of traffic roll,
And swell the welcome coffers of the
toll.
W. T.
If you are interested, please write for Prospectus:
SECRETARY, INDOOROOPILLY TOLL BRIDGE, LIMITED,
CENTRAL BUILDING, GRACEVILLE, BRISBANE. Telephone: U 7243.
STATION & FARM SUPPLIES
GALVANISED IRON.
NETTING. IfWIRL
t> m m
&=m
HBBCB6 FEMCIIICWIgE.
■■M/ARN
SDPPtIES..
At Wholesale Rates
in Any Quantity.
MONEY SAVED IS MONEY
GAINED.
Our 200-page copyrighted
catalogue gives full details.
GROCERIES—AII quality
goods at bedrock prices.
WIRE. Sole Agents for the genuine Hibiscus. No other firm can supply
Hibiscus hence protect yourself by ordering direct.
Bg. Galvanised 19/- per cwt>
Hibiscus Barb. We manufacture ourselves prices from 16/6 per
440 yd. coil.
Netting.—36 x 2 x 19, in 50yd. rolls 10/- roll
Every size of wire and netting in stock at prices which defy competi-
tion. (See catalogue.) We are the largest Suppliers of Wire
Netting in Australia.
GALVANISED IRON. We are still the lowest new shipment of best British
material just to hand, and sold to you at prices that defy competi-
tion :
Prices—Standard quality 26g.:
sft. 6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft. 10ft. sheets.
2/6 2/11 3/5 4/- 4/6 5/2
Cash must accompany order to take advantage of these low prices.
MOLASSES. —27/6 per scwt. drum. Ton lots, 25/- per drum.
MOTOR SPIRIT. —Venus super first-grade, in 44-gallon drums, at 1/10 per
gallon.
BONEMEAL STERILISED. —In 1001 b. bags, £ll/15/- ton, or 12/6 per bag.
SPRAY PUMPS. —Copper Knapsack 75/-, less 10 p.c.
Bucket Spray Pumps 22/6
See catalogue for full details every class pump made, also latest
spraying mixtures.
ARZEEN. —For tree- and weed-killing, jetting, etc 1 Od. lb.
VALLO SHEEP DlP. —This month special price . . 65/- case of 10 x 10 lb.
packets.
LOWEST ALSO FOR--
Three-ply (2/3 sheet 6ft. x 3ft.), Joinery, Tanks and Tank material,
Enamel Baths, Bush Showers, Cold Safes, Tar, Nails, Galv. Piping,
Plows, Saddlery, Tents, Tarpaulins, Canvas and Sisalkraft, Alum.
Ware, Dugong Oil, Kitchenware, Furniture, etc.
Write for copyrighted catalogue. It will save you many pounds.
We supply anyone direct, and we don't charge sales tax.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Limited
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.
FARM ACCOUNTS
ItllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllinNflHlllfllfll/llfllHllNlHliniilflHfflHlflHFUlllllHfHllUlJilt ||i||f|||||||i||||i|||||||l||||l||||||||||i|||||||iilll||llllllllllllii
The articles published on “The Bulletin’s” Land page have been reprinted
and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about book-
keeping is carried along, step by step, and shown how accounts are kept.
Every entry is explained in the simplest and clearest possible language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a proper basis and
keep it there.
In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every branch of the business
and see where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was
going back a little further every year. Had he known in time he might
have made changes that would have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts
is that they assume he knows something about book-keeping.
“The Bulletin,” at the request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce
a cheap textbook in which the whole business of book-keeping would be
dealt with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the means of everybody.
It will be sent from any “Bulletin” Office for sixpence, to which must be added 2d.
for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be found just as valuable
to traders and others who have hitherto had only a foggy idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE.


PROBAK
THE BETTER BLADE
FITS GILLETTE TYPE
RAZORS OLD OR NEW
Every PRO3AK blade identical
made from long ribbons of steel,
ground, honed, finished in one con-
tinuous operation. Men everywhere
are forming this new PROBAK habit
—quicker, smoother, cooler shaves
than ever before. Dealers every-
where sell them. Prices: 2/3 small
packet; 4/6 large packet.
tm
rrcs
rsA
Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIMITED,
181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
siHSlr^f
jmm
sm
I
V 'it
rm
: •: *l§
■■
£“si*
I-*; 1 .:;
Kfo-SS
~+>3T-
SSfeHr.v';
Hi
*•«
5#
;';M
IS
:*5
Use |:
AutoStrnp l
Shaving
Cream
for best
results 'j
Homburg, and at present keeps his dear cousin the
Kaiser in his right place.
The prejudice against Wilde and his set
had nothing to do with eras, and little to
do with their habits. The English only
become intolerant where there is lack
of decorum. They have a 12th Command-
niGiit! “Thou sh&lt not brag about it.
The Wildites were bragging hard in the
’nineties, and that accounted foi Bun-
thorne, “The Green Carnation, Rabelaisian
jests in the “Pink ’Un” and the execrations
that burst over their leader’s head when
his case against Lord Queensberry tailed.
The mob had been worked up, as it can
always be worked up by anti-Semites, anti-
Bolsheviks, anti-Ritualists and so on. An-
other Braybrooke sentence: —
' To wish to get a son-in-law into prison is an
odious wish and ought to be replied to with a
good sound whipping.
Lord Alfred Douglas has always purveyed
that kind of stuff; and it is to blame for
many of his rows. But a bald recital
of the rows does not help us to “see him
plain.” What is at the back of them?
Admittedly, Douglas is as ready for a
scene in public as an underworld queen.
When he hears that Lord Darling is to try
one of his cases he calls on the Associate
and says, “If he attempts to try it I will
make such a row as has never been heard
before in the Law Courts.” dhe English
detect the same strain of un-English Vul-
garity in Douglas that they resented m
Byron. He hates to think of a generation
growing up that is ignorant of his misad-
ventures —as witness this book. And his
personal vanity is Byronic. He lias supplied
his biographer with pictures of himself in
his beautiful babyhood and early manhood,
and another as he is to-day at 61—a tragic
likeness, with made-up lips and eyes, and
all the lines of age ironed out by the photo-
grapher.
There is no doubt that he will be recog-
nised by posterity as one of England’s great
poets. He has written some splendid
ballads, but it is in the Petrarchan sonnet
form that he excels.
THE BEAU POET.
I dreamed of him last night, I saw liis face
All radiant and unshadowed of distress,
And as of old, in music measureless,
I heard his golden voice and marked him trace
Under the common thing the hidden grace,
And conjure wonder out of emptiness,
Till mean things put on beauty like a dress
And all the world was an enchanted place.
And then methought outside a fast locked gate
I mourned the loss of unrecorded words,
Forgotten tales and mysteries half said,
Wonders that might have been articulate,
And voiceless thoughts like murdered singing birds.
And so I woke and knew that he was dead.
How did the man who wrote those lines
come to write the venomous doggerel of
the Satires? That is the essence of the
Douglas problem, and Mr. Braybrooke ltas
side-stepped it.
J.D.
Realism in Literature
“M.G.S.” makes a novel and amusing
contribution to aesthetic theory by main-
taining that the art of literature has no
concern with actuality. Who cares now for
‘‘literal accuracy,” such petty details as
costume and appearance, period, scene, pre-
cision of speech or idiom? Poor old
Homer, with his elaborate but useless
descriptions, might be excused for knowing
no better; but, unfortunately, most writers
throughout the ages, and even in these
enlightened days, have followed his bad
example. Balzac, a great offender, could
devote 50 pages to the description of an
actuality like a house, including such things
as chairs and tables. Not that this literary
re-creation of a definite environment was
the only illusion aimed at, but Balzac
thought it a necessary introduction or back-
ground to a profound psychological study.
Insufficiently evolved, he was unable to see
that literature should be able to do what
nature could not, that is, present life in the
void.
It is interesting to learn that realism is
a futile thing in literature. In the depictive
cats many modern painters and sculptors
have shown the same contempt for “ out-
aide appearances” and “literal accuracy” as
“M.G.S.”; but perhaps it is too soon yet
to decide whether they have surpassed old
masters like Velasquez and Rembrandt, who
were unable to escape from nature and
objective reality, and even rendered faith-
fully the actual aspect of such trivial objects
as clothes and trees and faces and bridges,
instead of trusting to the working of their
inner consciousness.
That the writer should ignore actuality
altogether, like the modernist painter, may
be an interesting theory; but it is doubtful
if it would prove effective in practice. The
visible world exists for the writer as well
as the painter; and as we live in a world
of concrete realities, not of abstractions,
literature is concerned with characters and
events determined in their action by time,
place and circumstance. The universal
is not attained by the neglect of the par-
ticular; and in literature, as in other things.-
the transcendental is usually a bore. If
it is a fallacy, as “M.G.S.” asserts, that the
art of literature is concerned with actuality,
then all the great modern novelists, from
Flaubert to Marcel Proust and James Joyce,
have been sadly mistaken. But after all,
if we follow “M.G.S.” to his triumphantly
logical conclusion, whom then must we
acclaim as the great master of true realism
in literature? Not Tolstoi or Dostoievski,
not Balzac or Stendhal, feeble writers who
adopt the absurd and prosaic method of
writing about people and places and events
they knew, but that more potent genius
Lewis Carroll, whose masterpiece of truth
and passion is “Alice in Wonderland!
A number of eminent English writers, such
as Galsworthy, Brett Young and W. L.
George, have taken to introducing a
few Australian characters and scenes into
their novels with little or no first-hand
knowledge of the country. According to the
notion that .actuality, an acquaintance with
the mere outside appearance of things, is
of no account in a "work of literature, the
result should have been different from what
it turned out to be, a choice little collec-
tion of howlers. On the other hand, D.
H. Lawrence wrote many brilliant and
profound pages on Australia, descriptive as
well as interpretative; but then, quite apart
from the fact that Lawrence was a greater
writer, he happened to visit Australia and
employed the old-fashioned realistic method
of writing only of what he saw and knew.
LOUIS ESSON.
And a Little Verse
UNBELLEF
I fret not that you were untrue,
Nor that you could deceive.
Though for my broken faith in you
I know that I should grieve;
I weep for joy 1 never knew —
I did not dare believe.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.
CANZONET.
You are my palace, my autumn and my
evening,
my silken veil and my sacred spool,
my golden censer, my ivorinc smooth
stripling, . .
and the slim, lithe reeds round the iris poo..
You arc my amber, my honey and my
date-palm,
my bracken glades where cicadas sing,
snow-covered mountains like virgins in
devout calm,
and the shells and seaweeds the green waves
bring.
You are my great gong, monotonously
sobbing,
my assuaging well and my island cool.
You arc 'my palace, my autumn and my
evening,
my silken veil and my sacred pool.
S.A.
KESTER BARUCH.
THE DESIRED.
Oh, mantle of many colors!
Ob, Josepli-coat of my Love!
The dappled spoil of a leopard,
lied cloak in a royal grove,
And a young saint’s scarf of saffron,
And the lotus cloud above!
In the green-gold eyes of the hunter
A flash of your will was caught
Implacable, awful, lovely;
Thus, thus would the soul be sought—
The five-clawed gripe of the panther
With a rending rapture fraught!
I died for the leopard-fetich,
The lord with the beryl eyes;
But the transient lightning of summer
That lightens passionate skies
Had troubled me ere my dying
Like the fire of a glance that files,
Oli, Lover who masks his beauty
With death, a face or a cloud,
Whose breast may blindingly dazzle
In white o’ the spring, or proud
’Neath smeared asli, quicken my breathing
As a fakir threads the crowd!
Whose step down the aisles of living
Sounds sudden; and viols wake,
And the dove’s heart trembles with wisdom,
And its venom deserts the snake,
And shimmers a floor of silver
On the Galilean lake.
Oh, master of feints and disguises,
Your hand on my hand was laid
A morning ago where the wattles
Becloud with honey the glad*',
And I spoke with a just-met stranger
Whose calm eyes made me afraid.
The gold boughs shadowed his grey glance;
It seemed he had travelled far —
Poet, or tramp, or workman,
Or Prince of a Wandering Star?
And yet if the flower of magic
Opens, its fruit is a scar.
For ever a small door closes,
A secret gate in the heart;
And without the sound of a footfall,
The Lord and his joys depart
As a wind of the dawn goes onward
And his winged songs round him dart.
The stranger whose hand extended
Ilad power o’er the three days’ dead,
Whose voice uttered things unspoken,
Still stoops to your lips his head;
But you know him —a' mask abandoned
By the bridegroom the bride would wed.
Oh, fugitive dearer than life-blood,
Strong as death, whose brow is a dream,
Who ruled as the leopard-fetich,
Gave life as the sacred stream,
And melted the heart of the woman
With the mystic golden gleam
That lightens man’s - eyes a moment—
Beggar or king—and goes
Ah, will you return to the mourner
At dawn in the garden-close
As she sits by the empty grave-place
Enwreathed with thorns of the rose?
Oh. Lover who taught all lovers!
Panther-like hunter of souls!
Shepherd who seeks for the least one
Where the river of sorrow rolls—
Birthless and deathless magician
Inscribing our hearts as scrolls!
Oh, you whom the women follow
Afar off with bleeding feet;
Oh, you who have touched the heart-pulse
With a single finger, and, sweet,
Beateth the blood like music—
In what bride-bower shall we meet?
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications .
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily eubvi
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany .
, A.A.J.; It is the New Year, and we'd
hate to spoil it by telling you how bad it really is.
.. . . E.M.L.C.: They hold promise R.D.F.:
Until you cultivate a more sensitive ear you'll
never write well. .. .E.D.C.: Amen to the maiden’s
prayer... .D.S.M. : Well, you’re brave, any-
way. We don’t know another soul who would take
the proletarian by the scruff of the neck and try
to make him rhyme with aquarium.... Musette M.:
Too long by half. Tinkling, twinkling rhyming
soon irritates. .. .Reg K. : Loose rhyming, without
a striking line. . . .A.M.S.: Simple and homely; no
interest outside the circle of old friends. ... Minnie
M.: Your about-to-be-bride is a mushy person....
Margaret C.: Not enough deoch and dorises these
days to float your Scots poem into port.. . . A.J.M.:
“Bad verses praising a very good horse.” We pass
no opinion on the horse; but you are a good judge
of the poetry. Still, “Fire” is worth working on.
M.J.C.: You’Ve got the eye, but not the pen.
Robert C.: “La Flor” lias merit —hardly enough.
J.H.C.: Well, it was a spirited dream. But
you’ve only made well-rhymed doggerel out of it.
....Ming: Your “Flower” is no immortelle; others
dropped with a tear. .. .Claude S.: Read good poets
for a year. .. .C.J.K. : You’re lonely, that’s what’s
the matter with you Wallace G.: Well-constructed
yarn. Too long for present use. .. .L.R.S.: Don’t
need to assure us that it’s your own. A man.who
would steal that would commit burglary to get a
ease of measles... .Wager: It was C. E. Jones, of
Ballarat —the long slab of a political tailor who
later addressed his constituents; “Gentlemen of
Ballarat and savages of Bungaree”.... Austral: It
isn’t poetry. Can’t say what it is until we have
it analysed.... Helen D.: You’ve got a sense of
beauty, but you don’t know enough about verse
form.... A.ILL.: A hopeless muddle.... Alcazar: The
quaint touch at the end nearly saved “Confessions,”
the best of the bunch Rex J.: But not hopeless.
The Counter: Outed A.F.A.: Try to write
something that comes to grips with realities....
M.D.S.: Prospect is an arid desert at present....
Sigma: No, we’d drop you somewhere nearer Omega.
. ...J.11.K.: Not quite what we want. . . .E.K.P.:
Doesn’t bring home the bacon M.W.P.: Showed
promise that faded J.W.11.P.: “The Sunset Road”
is still bumpy. .. .K.S.A.: What you don’t know
about police methods would fill volumes... .F.W.:
Baldly and badly told W.E.8.: Neither shows
much improvement J.H.C.: Its fate was soon
decided S.U.D.A.: Excellent plot, but treatment
is crude. . . .E.M.: Improbable. . . .8.H.: Ghost stories
don’t belong to this age J.E.R. : Monotonous
J.8.C.: Might pass if you furnished a motive for
the crime and spread suspicion over more than one-
character D.W.F.F.: No R.S.P.: Try a daily.
.. ..C.J.A.: Not sufficiently rounded... .M.M.H.: On
the slim side... .E.J.W.: The same story is told in
the cable news about once a year... .E.K.P.: A pair
of poor shots.. , .K,E.: Might suit a women’s paper.
J.E.B.: Trouble with that type of story is that
readers always feel they have been cheated at the
end. .. .E.M.: A very dull tea-party W.M.lt.:
And didn’t you think of looking up Webster’s?....
P.K.: Not humoroue enough to carry the hackneyed
plot H.N.: Not an ounce of promise in it....
T.H.: Both just below the mark.. .. J.K.M.: "e
were out when it called. .. . K.S.S.: It doesnt grip-
. ...R.S.N. : Bill’s returning. ... J-C.G. : Set us
yawning... .U. 8.: Far-fetched... -E.8.: Nothing new
in it....R.8.: A “small offering.” It is—in interest
as we 11... .R.S.: Found it hard to wade through.
.... ..C.8.: Counted ten over pugnacious Maori....
5.8.: Fiction competitions are off for the present.
....Deeper O.: The pipe band played during the
obsequies.. . .Constance N.: Incoherent. . . .8.T.A..
And yours is like a telegram sent from a racecoui.se.
. ...H.8.J.: Quite agree with you that the ’possum
with the silver fur should be protected. Hope
you will agree with us that the poetry-reader with
the silver hair should be protected, t 00.... John S.:
“The Poet” is to have another reading; others not
up J.F.: Quite right. J. C. Watson (1904) was
inexcusably -omitted from Australia’s ex-Prime Mini-
sters Baldy: Thanks, but the rhymes are heart-
breaking Boobri; Lazzarini might be made to
rhyme with “any” at a pinch, perhaps, hut ’ not
“comrades” with “job raids” ... . Darawhackler : En-
closed you will find what 1 consider is a poem.” It
isn’t, although beautifully typed... .L.G.: No good.
Vat: Punk R.K.: “Collette” has some merit,
but you’ve a long way to go yet. .. .R.H.W., jun..
“Outlaws” counted out. .. .M.G.: Know of no instance
of the destruction or disappearance of an aeroplane
having been debited to lightning by a board of
inquiry. . . .J.B.T. : “S. M. Herald lias always pub-
lished racing resultsC.A.: Only one V.C. was
won in England. Lieut., afterwards Capt., Leete
Robinson received the honor for bringing down a
Zeppelin at Cuffley, in Hertfordshire, in September,
1910... . S.W.: Guy Boothby, the novelist, was a
nephew of William Robinson Boothby, sometime
Sheriff of S.A. and Chief Electoral Officer.... Frank
M.: Hot patriotism, tepid verse.... Gordon G.: Last
six lines spoil it A. de R.: No rhyme in it, no
reason for it Bob P.: Your bush flowers now
garland our biggest basket. .. .L. 8.: So weak it was
a shame to write it in good black ink... .D.J.G.:
All right as far as it goes ; but we’re still waiting
for the climax... .Valcum: The B.’s serial supply js
provided for till the end of the year or thereabouts,
but we’re still open to read masterpieces for
publication after that date Frank C., L.L.
(Bris.), Et.D.: Only lack of space crushes them out.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.8.W.: Out! F.C.: What on earth are the
girls going around in beer-barrels for?. .. .W.11.T. :
A hardy annual. . . .R.T.: Time that tramp told a
new tale... .H.J.: The jests pull them down....
VV.J.G.: Weak in all respects P.lv.: Its stay here
was brief W.A.: Not up to the mark L.M.:
Is it a stranded porpoise she’s addressing?....
C.T.0.: A wild trio F.D.: Were you awake when
you drew it ?... .P. 8.: Don’t run up the black flag.
. ...W.8.: Landlady is neither well drawn nor amus-
ing J.F.: Attempt to picture the Lang Plan a
failure, like the Plan J.A.T.: You draw slickly,
but you jest with difficulty R.M.E.: Subdued
little sketch and a wheeze that grandma used to
titter over at school.


d
ď
m.
w
.
..:
ITBWS ™
WBIMBMEBMi
<
EH •
MBR
■■
/
i 11
m
mm
■ : - :■:■■. >
: :
": . , .
wSßsm
m m
*•
m
s
WA
mm
m
W M?I
' ' .::- '■■■: ' ■
SHI
,xf
m
w
- :
1 • J
;
■
■
§L
m
m
■ :
:
smm ■:
m
WMk v
m tmmm _m
f
f t jm,
Mi
II
¥J4
£
# 1
• :
■
m
■
;'ul®
$ 3
L.&:.
1
I
ImM -rl
"&BH m
m
W
< -
m
i. : :
m
%
w
St-
ill
't &
■a
■ .. -
gisiii
i
đ


The Bulletin
Vol ■ 53.—N0. 2709.
January 13, 1932.
A MESSAGE FROM THE METROPOLIS.
“It is the duty of every good Australian to see that the wages and hours of labor of our city workers are protected. Almost any hades Hall M.P. almost any day.
TRADES HALL POLITICIAN: “And I do hope, brothers, that amid the joys of a rural life they will give an occasional thought to the hardship of their city
brethren on the basic wage.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 11J/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westkalia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any adduess overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for hoz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
A POLICY FOR AUSTRALIA.
Three problems face the Government.
First, to bring 300,000 people back to ordi-
nary employment and meantime put them
in the way of getting necessaiy food, cloth-
ing and shelter. Second, to secure and pre-
serve a balance of trade, so that, after
paying for necessary imports, there may be
enough over to pay our overseas interest
bill and other debt charges. Third, to keep
our Government outgoings within our
revenue, so that we may restore our credit
and enable our banks to proceed with
their proper job of financing private enter-
prise and industry. The three are not, how-
ever, separate and distinct problems, be-
cause at many points they dovetail.
In the first place we cannot hope to get
these 300,000 people back to their old jobs,
because many of those jobs are gone, if not
for ever, certainly for years: the vast
majority of those men who were employed
on public works, and on private works
which depended upon the boom, must look
in other directions. It is obviously pro-
ductive work to which we should put them:
they should keep themselves. If they don’t,
they can only be a burden on others, and
they are that to-day. Moreover, every man
added to productive employment makes it
easier to employ still another man, just
as every man added to the unemployed
makes it more difficult to keep the bal-
ance of the employed in their jobs.
But the wages at which they can be
employed are governed by the price which
can be got abroad for our products, whose
export is absolutely essential to the pay-
ment of our debts. At this point public
opinion divides. On the one hand there
are those who say that inflation of some
sort must be practised in order to preserve
nominal wages: in other words, we must
pretend we are getting more for our staples
than we are getting so that we may pay
more in a depreciated currency for produc-
ing them. On the other hand, there are
those who say that all such pretence, all
such deliberate depreciation of our currency,
must have disastrous results in the long
run. If that is accepted, as it seems to be
by this Government, then an inevitable
first step must be a revision of all arbi-
tration awards and agreements. There is a
loud call in many quarters for wiping out
all such awards, and if the unemployed
problem is not solved the call will be irre-
sistible. But arbitration can save itself
by proving that it can accommodate itself
to circumstances. If it can do no better
than maintain rates of pay which cannot
be paid, then it is a destructive agency,
making for misery instead of happiness.
This crisis has already lasted 2i years,
and unless more is done it will last another
twenty. If two years ago we had established
labor farms in every State and in every suit-
able part of every State, an indefinite number
of men might by now have been wholly
self-supporting: there need not indeed have
been an able man in this continent who
was not self-supporting. We did nothing
then because the pusillanimous politician
said the trouble would soon be over and
a scheme involving a great upheaval was
not worth while. The trouble will not soon
be over, and so long as low prices last it
will not be over until we actively help it
over. We must therefore turn now to the
establishment of those labor settlements
which we should have taken in hand long
ago. Some of them should be organised on
a military basis. There are unfortunately
quite enough men of a single famous bat-
talion out of jobs to people a settlement.
If it were necessary to raise a loan of a
million for this purpose there should be no
difficulty about it: the public will assist
heartily any serious practical effort to
grapple with the problem. There must
also be thousands of jobs to assist produc-
tion which private employers would pay
for if they could get them done for what
they will return—jobs which are not urgent,
yet are worth doing at a price. The average
worker will not take them at the price
offering because he fears to do something
damaging to his “class.” So the work is
undone, and men who would otherwise
gladly do it trudge the tracks and eke out
their dole by begging. These emergency
jobs should be officially listed, after exami-
nation by local committees; and it should
be made quite clear that in undertaking
them men are doing emergency work at
emergency rates.
The primary producer’s spokesmen are for
the moment obsessed, many of them, with the
idea that Protection is the great cause of
those high prices and high costs which make
his work hardly worth doing. He talks of
“back-yard industries” employing a hand-
ful of men, and wholly dependent upon
high duties. But how many farmers are
affected by the high prices which these men
allegedly charge? In 90 p.c. of cases the
farmer is not touched by them at all; but
w'hat does happen is that we are made inde-
pendent of a few more thousands’ worth
of foreign goods; and, so far as keeping
nationally solvent is concerned, the exclu-
sion of £lOOO worth of foreign goods is
as valuable as the production of £lOOO
worth of wheat or wool. Where it can
be shown that a high tariff or the product
of a “back-yard industry” is materially
affecting the farmer’s costs it ought to be
reviewed. But where the farmer’s costs are
not materially affected, it ought' to be
remembered that a “back-yard industry”
employing even half a dozen men is doing
as much to keep this country solvent as
half a dozen imposing wheat farms running
to thousands of acres.
1 here will be no serious effort to reduce
the cost of government, which means the
cost of production, until means are pro-
vided by which the displaced may support
themselves elsewhere. This makes the estab-
lishment of labor farms even more urgent
than it would otherwise be. Simultaneously
there should be a prompt analysis of our
former imports to ascertain what further
industries can possibly be planted here.
Old conceptions as to what are possible
industries should be carefully examined:
it should be remembered that a dozen years
ago the commercial production of rice would
have been ridiculed, yet to-day we are grow-
ing more than enough for our own needs
under perfectly healthy conditions.
But so long as the Lang Government per-
sists with its default and repudiation and
its sovietising of industry, there can be
nothing like complete success for any
policy which the Federal Government may
pursue. One might just as well ask a
doctor to cure ;» diseased body while deny-
ing him the right to have anything to do
with nearly half its organs. In ordinary
circumstances it would be no concern of
the Federal Government whether a State
handled its affairs intelligently or not. But
an entirely exceptional position has arisen
—the actions of a State Government are
so gravely prejudicing the success of any
endeavor the Federal Government may
make in this crisis that quite exceptional
action is called for. This might well take
the form of a resolution to be submitted
to both Houses of the Federal Parliament:
That in the opinion of this House the
peace, order and safety” or “the peace; order
and good government of this Common-
wealth require that the Parliament of the
State of N. S. Wales should be dissolved
with a view to a general election”; and
“that the foregoing resolution be communi-
cated by cable to the Secretary of State for
the Dominions praying that he will take
such steps as he may find possible to carry
it into effect.”
GOLD AND MISERY.
In the ’nineties there were a dozen Aus-
tralian mushroom banks which presently
withered with the first onset of adverse
conditions. Y et they had the right to issue
notes; and most of them exercised it. In
such circumstances it was natural that we
should connect a banknote with a gold
backing. But very soon a great change
began to take place in the world’s monetary
practices. Instead of banknotes being issued
by anybody who cared to pay, as a rule, 2 p.c.
a year for the privilege, Central Reserve
Banks began to be built up on the general
pattern of the Bank of England. In most
countries these were State ■or semi-State
institutions, more or less like the Common-
wealth Bank in Australia, though without
its general banking connection; and their
notes were lawful currency, with the back-
ing of the Treasury of the country of issue.
In every case, nevertheless, a certain gold
backing has been provided for. The idea
behind that was to provide gold, for export,
if necessary. This has been made clearer in
the most recent legislation dealing with
currency. For a few .years past, for in-
stance, the Bank ot England has not been
obliged to pay gold for its notes in the ordi-
nary way of business, but only to issue gold
in 400 oz. bars in exchange for notes; and
a still more recent law in France is to the
same effect. So long as a country can hand
gold in exchange for its notes to those who
want to make foreign payments, that
country’s notes are beyond suspicion even
though its people no longer have a right to
demand gold for domestic use. This is one of
the great changes which have followed from
the Central Reserve Bank system. Gold is no
longer required to support a note issue at
home; in effect, its function is to support
the note issue abroad. Paper money is not
money outside the country of issue; but
so long as the country which issues it will
pay gold for notes for export purposes, so
long is it first-class merchandise, worth very
little short of its face value. If one were on
an island of the Pacific which never traded
with the world and never was going to,
whether a man could get gold for his cocoa-
nuts would not matter at all. In such
circumstances gold might well be worth less
than three bananas per pound. Gold’s
monetary value is now wholly and solely for
international trading purposes.
A few years ago there was a pretty gen-
eral belief that gold supported the whole
economic structure of the world: in the
days of the bimetallist propaganda there
was a much-used figure of a vast triangle
of trade resting crazily upon a narrow apex
of yellow metal. There is no such general
belief to-day: if gold ever had that func-
tion it has been lost. The MacMillan Com-
mittee is the latest high authority to lay
that down definitely: the function of gold
is not to support the trade and credit of
the world, that being done by material
assets and goodwill, but to settle inter-
national balances. Gentlemen like Mr. Lang,
who talk about the fetich of gold and about
goods standards, do not, of course, under-
stand that. They think that the scarcity
or abundance of gold determines prices.
It affects prices, certainly, but it no longer
governs them, if it ever did absolutely.
America has a great deal of gold; Australia
has hardly any. Yet the general price level
is higher in Australia than it is in America.
And, as a great New York bank pointed
out a few months ago, the Bank of England,
with less then than 145 millions of gold,
was clearing more international business
and rendering more international aid to
business than the banking and currency
systems of the U.S. and France together,
with their 1450 millions of gold. “These
figures,” the great City Bank of New York
said, “afford a convincing demonstration
that something other than a lack of gold
in the world is responsible for the present
disordered world situation.”
The MacMillan Committee, searching for
causes, finds one of them in “the rigidity
of wage rates”; and that is our particular
trouble. A country could get along quite
well without any gold to speak of. It
would not want gold if it had no balances
to pay abroad; and it would have balances
to pay abroad only because it was export-
ing too few goods and importing too many.
In general, there is only one reason
why it would be doing that: because home
production costs too much. For over two
years we have been trying to camouflage
that unfortunate fact. We have been throw-
ing up tariffs sky-high without much regard
for our indispensable primary industries;
when those industries have threatened to
break down we have given them bonuses
and subsidies, and have struggled to keep
up exchange rates, which meant more back-
stairs subsidies. And all the time things
have been getting worse and worse—and
that in a country which should have shown
extraordinarily quick recovery, because we
do not have to depend on non-existent
markets for manufactured goods. Nearly
all our old markets were still open to us:
that prices were low was of no tremendous
consequence; it was a condition which could
be met by a reduction in our own costs
and in our own price levels. Instead, we
have been struggling to maintain those
costs and price levels; and we have been
able’ to do it only by camouflage and
subterfuge and pretence, by living on our
stored-up resources, and by condemning
some hundreds of thousands of our people
to privation and misery.
WAR DEBTS.
The following tables show the original
advances and the total amounts as funded
(including interest unpaid and accumulated
to the date of funding) of the more import-
ant debts owed to the U.S. and Britain by
other Governments:—
Debts Owed to the U.S.A.
Original. As Funded.
Great Britain* .. $4,074,818,000 $4,600,000,000
France . . . . 3,340,516,000 4,025,000,000
Italy . . . . 1,647,869,000 2,042,000,000
Belgium .. .. 377.030,000- 417,780,000
Poland . . .. 159,667,000 178,560,000
Czechoslovakia . . 91.880,000 115,000,000
Yugoslavia .. 51,038,000 62,850,000
Rouniania . . . . 36,128,000 44,590,000
Austria . . .. 24,056,000 36,000,000
Greece .. .. 15,000,000 18,125,000
Estonia . . . . 12,066,000 13,830,000
Finland . . . . 8,282,000 9,000,000
Lithuania . . . . 4,982,000 6,030,000
Latvia . . . . 5,132,000 J 5,775,000
Russia . . . . 192,601,000
Debts Owed to Britain.
Original. As Funded.
Prance (W) .. . . £392,726,000 £600,000,000
Italy (W) . . . . 347,624,000 560,000,000
Belgium (W) . . . . 90,084,000 99,133,000
„ (Post-Armistice) 5,800.000 6,721,000
„ (Reconstruction) 9,000,000 9,000,000
„ (Congo) . . 3,550,000' 3,600,000
Yugoslavia (W).. .. 22,383,000 25,591,000
» (E)-- 1,872,000 2,069,000
Greece (W) . . . . 16,391,000 21,441,000
Portugal (W) .. .. 15,611,000 20,134,000
Rouniania (W) .. .. 16,401,000 18,448,000
» (R) • • .. 2,196,000 2,200,000
Austria (R), about .. 8,985.000 13,240,000
Poland (R) .. .. 3,928,000 4,770,000
„ (other). . . . 174,000
Czechoslovakia (R) . . 474,000 474,000
~ (Repatria-
tion of prisoners) 826,520 826,520
Estonia (R) .. .. _ 251,000
„ (War supplies) 917,200
Latvia (War supplies).. 1,173,000
Russia 423,321,000
W = War debt. R = Relief debt.
The figures of the French, Russian and Italian
debts to Britain are net, i.e., after deduction of the
gold deposits made by the debtor Governments.
The earliest advances made by the United
States were at Si p.c. This rate was later
raised to 5 p.c. By the date of funding all
the advances carried 5 p.c., except the
advance to Austria, which was at 6 p.c.
The War advances made by Britain were
either at 5 p.c. fixed or at 5 p.c. average.
The Relief advances were at 6 p.c.
The settlement made bv the United
States with Britain, Poland, Czechoslovakia,
Roumania, Estonia, Finland, Lithuania and
Latvia represented, on a 5 p.c. basis, a
ieduction of about one-quarter in the amount
of the debt; the settlement with France
lepresented a reduction of between one-
half and two-thirds; the settlement with
Greece rather more than two-thirds, and
the settlements with Italy, Austria and
Yugoslavia about three-fourths. In the case
of the Belgian debts, the post-Armistice
debt carries interest on the same basis as
the British debt (3 p.c. and p.c.); interest
on the pre-Armistice debt was waived in
view of pledges given by President Wilson.
The War debt settlements made by
Britain with her debtors represent, in all
cases except that of Italy, on a 5 p.c. basis
a reduction by about two-thirds of the
amount of the debt. In the case of Italy
the reduction is over three-fourths. The
period of repayment is in all cases 62 years.
The Continental Allies, particularly
France and Italy, were heavily indebted
both to the U.S.A. and to the United King-
dom, and it is their aggregate indebtedness
which had to be considered in relation to
their financial resources. Further, the terms
obtained by these countries in the U.S.A.
tended to constitute a precedent and made
it difficult for Britain to obtain substantially
different terms.
1 he Relief and other debts shown in the
table were, except the Austrian debt, settled
on a 5 p.c. basis over comparatively short
periods; in the case of the Relief debts,
interest was charged at 6 p.c. up to date of
funding. The Austrian debt was settled
on the same basis as the Austrian debt to
the United States.
No settlement has been reached in regard
to the Russian war debts. Apart from this
there has been no case of repudiation or
proved inability to mako any payment.
If all War debts had been cancelled, the
U.S. Government, on the basis of the pre-
sent scale of repayments, would have suf-
fered a loss of 233 million dollars in 1931,
rising to 300 millions in 1935, and to 350
millions in 1941, thereafter rising gradually
to a maximum of 418,686,000 dollars in
1984.
The position of Britain is that up to a
recent date her aggregate payments to the
U.S. Government exceed her aggregate
receipts from reparation and war debts by
nearly 200 million pounds (allowing for
interest), but in future the current pay-
ments provided for would be covered by
the current receipts (including reparation
receipts from Germany) with a small mar-
gin (some £700,000 a year).
Thus the effect of the remission of war
liabilities (apart from its favorable influ-
ence on the economic position of the world
as a whole) would be to alleviate
budget difficulties in the Continental credi-
tor countries, but to enhance such diffi-
culties in the U.S.A.
The Dominion War debts are excluded
from the foregoing, and are not strictly com-
parable to the War or Relief debts owed by
foreign Governments, since the Dominion
Governments expressly desired to bear the
whole cost of financing their war efforts, and
the amounts were advanced by the British
Government, instead of being raised on the
London market directly by the Dominions
concerned. This was done to prevent com-
petition on the market and to save expense
to the borrowing Government. The Gov-
ernments of Maoriland and S. Africa became
indebted to the British Government in
much the same way. The M.L. debt as
funded amounted to £27,532,000, and is
repayable, like the Australian debt, by a
6 p.c. annuity, of which £4 19s. sd. repre-
sents interest. The S’African debt was
represented by £2,200,000 p.c. debentures,
£8,300.000 44 p.c. debentures and £2,556,000
5 p.c. book debt, and is repayable by 1945.
In the case of Canada, the balance of indebt-
edness was in favor of the Dominion.
The only foreign loan made by the British
Government during the war on terms com-
parable to those on which the advances
to the Dominions were made was the loan
made to Belgium on behalf of the Belgian
Congo. This loan was made under an agree-
ment of 1916, the most important provision
of which ran as follows: —
The loan will be made on the same terms as the
British Government loans to the British Dominions
for war expenditure, i.e., it will bear the same rate
of interest as the British Government securities out
of the proceeds of which it is advanced, and if
such securities are issued at a discount, the amount
of such discount will be added to the capital of
the debt.
This loan was funded in 1926 with interest
at 5 p.c. over a period of 30 years. The
funding terms are t’hus rather less favor-
able than those on which the Australian
debt was funded, as the Belgian Congo
debt is repayable over a period of 30 instead
of about 36 years, while interest is being
paid at the rate of 5 p.c. instead of about
£4 18s. 4d. p.c.—the rate charged to Aus-
tralia prior to the moratorium.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Even Lang’s Own Town Rejects His Plan.
John Thomas Lang lives in Auburn
(Sydney), carries on business as a house-
and-land agent there, was an Auburn aider-
man for 11 years and for two years mayor,
and is the local member. In the propor-
tional-representation days Auburn was
included in the three-member electorate
of Parramatta, and in 1925 its vote put
Lang at the head of the Parramatta poll.
A single electorate in 1927, Auburn gave
John Thomas an absolute majority of 3445,


the voting being 9429 for Lang, 3153 for
Paddy Minahan (sometime member for
Sydney, who had fallen out with John
Thomas and stood as Independent Labor),
and 2821 for Cheetham, another Indepen-
dent —the Nationalists very foolishly did not
run a man. In 1930, when Lang promised
to find work for everybody, give the
civil servants back their one-twelfth,
abolish the wages tax and balance the
Budget, and when he said “the Labor party
sets its face against all repudiation,” his
majority soared above 3 to 1. He got
13,174 votes, a Nationalist (Massey) 3885,
and two forlorn-hope candidates 324 be-
tween them.
Obviously Auburn thought a great deal
of John Thomas in those days. What does
it think of him now? W T hat is its opinion
of his “Plan”? It was asked at the Com-
monwealth elections on December 19, and
at the municipal elections on January 2. Its
reply on each occasion must have staggered
“the Empire’s greatest Premier.”
The Auburn State electorate is included
in the Federal electorate of Reid. Its sub-
divisions are Auburn (really Auburn South),
Auburn North and Flemington. For Reid
John Thomas put up his friend Gander on
the understanding (so it has been stated
again and again and never publicly denied)
that Gander should keep the seat warm
for him if he decided to go into Com-
monwealth politics. The subjoined figures
show how the Auburn people voted for
and against Lang and his cause in October,
1930, and December, 1931, postal and absent
votes omitted:—
( 1930. -v 1931. \
For. Against. For. Against.
Auburn . . . . 4257 1008 2262 3409
Auburn N. . . 3448 920 2068 I®®'’
Flemington . . 4438 1375 2207 3107
Totals . . . . 12,143 3903 6597 8511
A remarkable turnover, even if it is
allowed that there were two anti-Lang
candidates for Reid and that the Langster
got a little less than two-thirds of the Fed-
eral Labor man’s preferences for the whole
electorate.
The Auburn Council results are even
more significant, considering that every
adult in the place could vote. There were
12 aldermen to be elected, and there were
42 candidates —12 Lang-planners, 12 Pro-
gressives, 11 Municipal party, 5 Communists
and 2 Independents. Seven Progressives
and five Lang-planners got in: —
Cheetham (Prog.)
Atkinson (Lang Plan) . . . . • • • •
Lightfoot (Prog.) . . ■ • ■ • • •
Hevvson (Prog.) " i«s-
Miller (Prog.)
Watson (Prog.)
Cussen (Prog.) 1
Lamb (Lang Plan)
Plunkett (Prog.)
Herlihy (Lang Plan) ™°®
Upton (Lang Plan) ■ ■
Conway (Lang Plan) .. • • • • • •
Seven Progressives and five Lang-planners,
and the Progressives in first, third, fourth,
fifth, sixth, seventh and ninth positions!
In all, 21,352 votes were cast for the Pro-
gressives, 12,956 for the Municipals, 20.080
for the Lang-planners and 1089 for the
others. Dividing by 12 and excluding frac-
tions and Communists, 1673 voted for the
Lang Plan and 2894 against it. And m
Auburn, of all places! This is what the people
of Auburn think of Lang and his abominable
plan after 20 years of him as aider-
man, mayor and member, and after 15
months of him as Premier —the Premier who
swore he would not default, and did!
The U.A.P candidate for Auburn ought
to be announced this month. He need not
be a local resident —though there may be a
suitable aspirant among the Progressive
aldermen —but he should be a returned
soldier, with a mind well stored with facts
about John Thomas’s war and post-war
record, and a fighter from the ground up.
A man like Harrison, the new member for
Wentworth, or Clasby, who outed the
Langster in East Sydney, would prick John
Thomas till he roared again. A shrewd
suspicion exists that John Thomas hasnt
much stomach for a rough-and-tumble elec-
tion in which his own head would be at
stake. If the suspicion became certainty
in the mind of his mob, it would be good-
bye to John Thomas!
*
Doing Pretty Well.
An analysis of the trade figures for the
past five months, published on the “Wild
Cat” page, shows we have good reason to
expect that we shall pay our way this year.
To meet our interest bill we must export
about 30 millions more than sufficient to
pay for our imports; and on present figures
and past averages we should about do it
a very remarkable improvement upon the
trade deficit of 40 millions which now rises
up out of the records of the past (and
the not-so-long past) to upbraid us for our
folly.
We cannot, however, afford to put
feathers in our tail. The bulk of the great
change has been due, not to an increase
in our export figures, but to a decrease in
those relating to imports. Upon these we
must continue to keep the very firmest
hand; and for that reason any reduction of
tariffs must be stoutly resisted unless it
can be clearly shown that the present duty
is seriously prejudicing an exporting indus-
try. And proof must be forthcoming; vague
charges are no good—we have always got
to blame our misfortunes and our failures on
to something. Even our black brother
must have his pourri-pourri and his death-
bone.
Confidence and Credit.
Early in December the Commonwealth
Bank took over the Government Savings
Bank of N. S. Wales, which had suspended
payment seven months earlier, and within
a fortnight was able to announce that 10
p.c. of the deposits would be available
at once. This was at a time of year when
a heavy call on the liberated deposits might
have been reasonably expected; yet so
trifling was the call that the Commonwealth
Bank has been encouraged to make the
entire balance of the deposits available this
week. The Bulletin believed that so
complete was the people’s confidence in the
Commonwealth Bank that the entire de-
posits might have been safely liberated at
once; that the board preferred to put this
confidence to the test is further proof of
its cautious management, and strengthens
the grounds for public confidence.
The whole of the circumstances show both
what confidence and the loss of confidence
mean not only to a bank but to the public.
That the stupidity, if nothing worse, of Mr.
Lang and his absurd Plan was responsible
for the run is now beyond all reasonable
doubt: there is ample proof of it in the
fact that no serious drain upon the bank s
cash resources occurred for four or five
months after the last State election; then,
after promising the people—and, inciden-
tally, the Governor—that there would be no
repudiation, Mr. Lang made repudiation his
policy, and practised it by deliberately
defaulting on his interest payments. The
immediate result was a shattering of confi-
dence in the Government bank; the later
results were distress and misery to thou-
sands, many of whom were driven to accept
as little as 11s. in the £ for the small savings
of a lifetime.
There is further proof that the Lang Gov-
ernment was responsible for the disaster in
the fact that, when the Government Bank
reopened for new deposits, no deposits
worth mentioning were received, notwith-
standing that extraordinary efforts were
made to attract them, and notwithstanding
also that the bank had been placed under
Commissioners quite independent of the
Government. That it was the Government
Savings Bank of N. S. Wales, and that Mr.
J. T. Lang was still the head of the Gov-
ernment of N. S. Wales, was sufficient to
rob the institution of the confidence which
it otherwise merited.
One other thing is made clear. There has
been a flood of loose talk about creating
credit.” But credit naturally depends upon
confidence, ana you cannot create that by
Act of Parliament. Mr. Lang passed an
Act to re-establish the G. 5.8., but that did
not create confidence, and without confi-
dence it dared not open its doors to the
old depositors and give them credit even
for their own money. The Commonwealth
Bank has not the 50 millions which it now
makes available to old G.S.B. depositors.
Yet, the depositors having won the confi-
dence of the board, the latter establish
credit for the full amount.
There is as much credit in the world as
ever there was. There is no need to “create”
it. It is there waiting to flow. But only
confidence can turn the tap.
Gandhi.
It looks as if tile British Government has
at last determined to face the issue in India
and deal with the revolutionary section of
the population headed by the Indian Con-
gress as it should have been dealt with 10
years ago. Much valuable time has been
wasted by the pottering sentimentality of
previous British Governments, and many rank
weeds have been suffered to root deeply. But
it is still not too late to restore the old pres-
tige of the Raj, and to convince the tiny
section of India’s 315 millions which is
crying for the moon of national indepen-
dence that the time has not yet come nor
will for many generations.
The failure of the recent Round-table
Conference in London surprised no one-
least of all, perhaps, those responsible for
convening it. But it served one supremely
useful purpose in giving the public of
Britain a close-quarters view of that futile
though venomous personality Gandhi. A
considerable section of the British com-
munity, well primed with long-range propa-
ganda, had come to regard the megalo-
mania-ridden Bunnia as a martyr-saint and
a master brain directing millions towards
the dawn of liberty. The actual spectacle
of the “Mahatma,” with his mental inca-
pacity and inability to initiate any con-
structive policy, or to comprehend any
thesis running counter to his own positiv-
ism, came as a stunning shock to the
idealists. Even Bernard Shaw, fresh from
his adoration of the Russian Soviet, was at
a loss to speak good word or bad of the
pinchbeck poseur.
As far as the British people are concerned
and this includes the British of the
Dominions—Gandhi’s prestige as an evange-
list of an oppressed people is as flat as the
pomp of Nineveh. The odor of sanctity
attaching to him in the nostrils of the igno-
rant will be wanting in any of his possible
successors. There are no other saints in
sight. , , ~
One essential move on the part of the
Government not hitherto' undertaken is
the confiscation of the large funds
known to be at the disposal of the Congress.
While a portion of these comes to India as
subventions from the Soviet, a very large
balance is furnished, not by the patriots
struggling to be free, but by the huge
cotton-spinning and cotton-printing inter-
ests of Bombay and other Indian centres
specialising nowadays in goods which
England once supplied to India. These
interests are largely Parsee and Hindu in
tone —Gandhi’s own son is a partner in one
of the leading Bombay firms. When Gandhi,
some years ago, engineered his boycott ot
British manufactured cloths, and the Con-
gress he controlled paid hordes of “peace-
ful” picketers to enforce it, these manu-
facturing interests grew suddenly rich even
beyond a Hindu merchant’s dream ot ava-
rice. The last thing on earth these people
desire is the lifting of the ban on Bntis
cloth goods, and they are as ready to pour
out money in the future to ensure the con
tinuance of things as they have been in the
past. The moment they find that the Gov-
ernment of India is intercepting then
remittances the fount will dry up, and tha
will mean the end of the Congress as it
exists at present.
It is all a good opening to 1932. ine
failure of the governing body in India to
maintain its supremacy would inevitably
bring the vast edifice down in rums. 1 he
resultant rush for the spoils by land-hungry
European and Asiatic nations is not
pleasant to envisage, especially for Aus-
tralia, stripped by its vote-pandering P oll ‘
ticians to utter helplessness from a defence
point of view, and unblushingly dependent
on the Mother Country, itself harassed
to the point of desperation.
Our Friend's the Police.
“Gad” crosses into N. S. Wales:—
I find the average bagman very much like the
average Australian. Even the most sullen and surly
of them, if taken individually and treated consider-
ately, can be reduced to a state of complete tract-
ability. I have met, of course, many outlaws on
the tramp; and I know of many types with whom
1 would not choose to associate deliberately. Hut
even for most of these I can find excuses.
Throughout all Queensland, with a few notable
exceptions, the general policy of the police is to
treat all travelling ration-drawers as actual or
potential criminals. Most of the young bagmen (up
to 2:3 years) are subjected to insult and abuse on
almost every occasion of their weekly appearance
at the police stations. This varies Horn a sort of
searching cross-examination (wholly irrelevant and
unauthorised) —“Are you a Communist?” etc—to
inane questions as to whether they would be willing
to work for their tucker. Most of this (in Queens-
land, at any rate) comes badly from a body which
so strenuously resisted a cut in their own pay and
whose numbers include so surprisingly few ex-service
men.
Before I drew rations in N. S. Wales ihe other
day for the first time 1 had supposed that the police
might at least be less hectoring in their attitude;
since an indulgent relief policy is part of the
Government’s professed attitude. But this is actually
what happened. There were about 20 of us there,
including one man and his wife on the track. We
were there at 8.45; but it was not until about
10.30 that our presence was noticed, though the
station staff were there all that time doing nothing
in particular. Eventually a table and bench were
rigged up on the verandah, which simple operation,
being done with characteristic Government-servant
expedition, took about 2:5 minutes. Then an over-
sized young constable came forward to the fence
of'the station-house enclosure, beyond the limits of
which we had fearfully and humbly arranged our-
selves, and barked: “The rations are on 's store.
You must all go in there one by one, the rest
waiting outside. If there’s any crowding in and I
go up there, I’ll cancel all your tickets.” We then
approached his presence one by one, and each one
had to answer a series of questions (15 he put to
me), all asked in the same sort of manner as the
Chief of the “Noo Yarlc” detective force uses (on
the talkies) when handling a real “tough killer.”
Then the card was jerked at us and we went along
to the store and arranged ourselves humbly outside it.
1 have no doubt at all that it is the attitude of
the police that breeds that resentful spirit in certain
tvpes which outcrops as a sort of revengeful feel-
ing against society ; and undoubtedly it accounts lor
a lot of damage which bagmen are supposed to do.
The cumulative effect of this sort of treatment must
ultimately be to destroy the moral fibre of even the
most steadfast characters.
The question is not whether a dole policy is
right and proper ; nor yet as to whether men should
be forced to work. The business of the police in-
cludes, at the moment, the administration of Govern-
ment relief, and it is their duty to see that men
who are entitled to draw this relief are spared
all unnecessary humiliation.
+
The Scullins’ Good Qualities.
This at least can be said for the Scullin
Ministry: with all its leader’s weaknesses
and with all its Treasurer’s wrong ideas,
it had a fine sense of the people’s rights
and scrupulously avoided usurping them.
The moment it believed there was an honest
doubt as to whether it represented the
people, whether its opinions were those
of the majority of the electors, it hesitated
to do things which could not be quickly
undone by its successors; and when the
doubts grew, it promptly went to the
country, although by that time it must-
have known it had very little hope of
getting back to office.
Its refusal to fill the vacancy on the
board of the Commonwealth Bank is typical.
C. H. Reading’s term expired in October
The question was whether a man should
be appointed with known leanings towaids
inflation—a man who would assist actively
in carrying Theodore’s plans into effect.
The Ministry went out of office with the
vacancy still unfilled: in effect, the Govern-
ment left it to the electors t.O r decide what
should be done about it. The electors
having given -their answer. Mr. Reading was
very properly reappointed. The Bulletin
knows what Lang would have done in
similar circumstances —knows what he is
doing. And it knows, too, what many a
Nationalist Government has done. Even
the last one in N. S. Wales was npt blame-
less in this regard.
Exchange Rates and Protection.
The dear old “S. M. Herald” is getting
herself into a terrible mess. All her life the
old lady has been a Freetrader and a dis-
believer in all kinds of trade bonuses and
subventions. And then her ear was borrowed
by gentlemen who were deeply interested
in putting up the exchange rate and keeping
it up in the interests, allegedly, of tne
primary producers; and throughout she has
been the chief mouthpiece of this little
party. If it was suggested to these people
that what they had committed themselves
and the “Herald” to was inflation pure and
simple, “No,” they would reply, this is
not inflation. It is simply the natural
working of the law of supply and demand,
there is great Australian demand lor tne
English £; therefore the price goes up. lne
rate of exchange is the natural value ol tne
Australian £ in present circumstances.
The other day, however, the "Herald
seems to have had some doubts about this,
and it declared that Customs duties aie
“no longer required, because an effective
barrier is the rate of exchange, which has
heavily increased from £lO6 to £l3O. The
president of the Chamber of Manufactures
replied that if a protective tariff is eco-
nomically wrong, a high exchange rate,
which is an “effective barrier,” must be
economically unsound too. do which the
flustered “Herald” made the reply that ex-
change was a “natural barrier,” while tariffs,-
etc., are “artificial.”
Now, much as we should like to oblige
the dear old lady, she can’t have it both
ways. Either this exchange rate is a bar-
rier or it is not a barrier. When she has
been backing up the high-exchange party,
she has declared that it is not a barnei at
all: that, in effect, the Australian £ was
worth so little that 130 of them went to
the £IOO English. The contention was that
the Australian exporter didn’t get a faith-
ing more than he was entitled to, because
while he sold in English £’s he was paid m
Australian £’s, which were worth ever so
much less. Similarly, of course, the im-
porter, who paid in English money at the
other end, would sell in Australian money
at this end. and get 130 where he paid 100.
That is the theory of it: that is the case
on which the “S. M. Herald ’ supported
and approved of high exchange rates.
But now it says “Oh, no, this is a bar-
rier. The importer doesn’t get 130 where
he paid 100.” If that is so, then this
exchange business is a barrier, erected, not
because the English £ is really worth so
much more than the Australian, but in oidei
to benefit one class of our community. In
other words, it is what the “Herald” savs it,
is not, a thing artificially maintained as
a bonus to the primary producer.
As a Protectionist this paper has no strong
objection to bonuses and such things; but
it does object to anybody but Parliament
establishing them or collecting taxes to
pay them.
Boosting Farm-land Values.
The Australian farmer is overburdened
with debt. It is not that Australian rates
of interest are high: compared with those
ruling elsewhere for corresponding securi-
ties they are low. But every few years
the price of farm land, pastoral and agricul-
tural, is run up to absurd heights; and
when bad times come, with drought or a
slump in the prices of products, the interest
on the too-great principal falls behind, and
the wages offered to labor are whittled
down. Nobody benefits directly except the
owner who made a profit by a sale.
In most cases a small deposit is paid;
and it then depends on the future whether
the transaction is completed or not. So
far as the purchaser is concerned he realises
in most cases that the whole business is a
gamble: if things run his way he will be
able to pay and “make a pot”; if they
don’t he will not lose much. Whether he
undertakes to pay £6 or £8 an acre does
not therefore concern him a great deal. He
could not pay 10s. at present; and the luck
that will let him pay £6 is just as likely
to let him pay £B. What most concerns
him is to buy a chance in the great gamble
at a small figure. So the price of land is
pushed up and up. Because in this gamble
£8 was fixed as the figure, £8 becomes the
fair price in the neighborhood—or probably
£8 10s.. because the land that is to be sold
to-morrow is always a little better than the
land that was sold yesterday.
Yet what can be done about that? In
this way, we are told, the poor man can
get a start; and are we going to stop
him? The banks have been faced with
just the same question. In some countries
they are not allowed to advance money on
mortgage of farm lands; but in Australia it
has come to be regarded as particularly
their job, and they can cohimit no crime
greater than that of buttoning up against
the primary producer. Aet many things
that have seemed quite right hitherto are
turning out quite wrong. Here, for instance
—should a man have a right to gamble in
this way on a farm, seeing that the
immediate result is to make it fai moie
difficult for probably a thousand farmers to
pull through a period of stress? And im-
possible also for a thousand farm-workers
to get what they ought to get for then-
toil?
To attempt to put a limit to the price
which may be paid for farm property would
land us in a bog of difficulties. But, on
balance, the community would seem to be
justified in prohibiting a sale unless the
purchaser was able to produce of his own
money, say, 25 p.c. of the purchase price.
Nothing, however, can entirely take the
place of the stabilisation of currency. That
a bushel of wheat should be worth 2s. in
one year and ss. in another, irrespective
of any changes due to variations in world’s
supply and demand, is the overshadowing
cause of financial instability and disaster.


In Craven “A” I always find what I expect
... that extra touch of Quality
CRAVEN “A”
corviv- i u rED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 143 Years’ Reputation for
IS
POLITICAL
POINTS
V ictoria s gold yield for 1931 was valued
at .£202,000, as compared with £102,450 in
1930. The Federal Government’s promise of
a gold bonus helped. Then gold has lately
fetched £3 3s. per ounce extra by reason of
the vagaries of the exchange. And finally
the State Government has persistently be-
guiled out-of-works to go fossicking in the
wilderness, where the odd pennyweight is still
to be found occasionally. Westralia’s return
shows an increase of about £1,200,000, mak-
ing a total of £3,000,000. It is the best for
22 years.
Parkhill, who attends to Home Affairs in
the Lyons Cabinet, intimates that our Com-
munist brother must make a great deal less
fuss and froth than he has been doing,
else steps will be taken to send him where
he belongs. There is no objection to him
working for a living here, but there is every
objection to his attempts to boss the country
which gave him a refuge. In some cases it
is said that the police are waiting for him
with a long sentence should he be deposited
on his native shore. If so, he should have
made himself less unbearable when he was on
somebody else’s shore. It is much easier to
send him back as an undesirable immigrant
than to bother getting a conviction against
him locally.
The Commonwealth, having taken over the
busted State Savings Bank of N.S.W., has
found itself in a position to set the deposits
free. Nobody wants to draw all his money
out and bury it in the cellar now that Robert
Gibson, and not Lang, is in charge of the
show. The Lang concern at least carried
its point. It has got a long time in which to
pay the money over which it made default —
in other words it has got long credit over the
steal which brought about the smash, and
the smash came about because of the steal.
A lot of people see a long-delayed gleam of
joy now. But some don’t see it because they
lave committed suicide, or have sold their
life’s savings for a trifle and possibly wound
up with suicide.
There has been an inspired movement to
put Humpty-dumpty Theodore together
again after his crash in Dailey. The first
feeler hinted that a safe Victorian seat
might be found for him. Victorians of all
parties received the suggestion with a dis-
tinct lack of rapturous acquiescence, so eyes
were cast on Queensland. It was suggested
to Baker, the ex-civil servant who ousted
Bayley in Oxley, that he might make a
graceful gesture and step down to take over
the job of organiser of the A.W.U in
Queensland. Baker’s reply verged on the
vitriolic.
“What’s the matter with dear old Earle?”
“Oh, he started a non-co-operation move-
ment like Gandhi, and now he’s dress-
ing the part.”
Before the Scullidores went to the
country they reissued the familiar regula-
tions granting the Waterside Workers’ Fed-
eration the virtual monopoly of wharf labor
which the Federal Arbitration Court had
refused it. The regulations were always
cancelled by the Senate and always gazetted
agitin. Now the L*yons Government havS
made an end of them. That, of course,
doesn’t settle the question of waterside
but it paves the way to a settlement
that isn t half-fraud and half-farce. The
Sculhdores persuaded themselves that their
precious regulations were earning them the
undying gratitude of the union wharfies.
They were rudely disillusioned when they
lost Fremantle and saw their vote slump in
other districts where the union wharfie is
st rong.
As Lang’s paper saw it:—
Early Senate returns disclose the amazing anomaly
that although Labor has suffered a crushing defeat
in the House of Reps., it has a fighting chance of
gaining the Senate vote in three States. In N. S.
Wales the position is particularly hopeful.
Hope told a flattering tale. Actually Cox.
Massy Greene and Hardy scored the great-
est majorities ever given to an Australian
Senate team. Before Lang barged in N.S.W.
Labor’s worst showing at a Senate election
was made in 1917. when its No. 1
candidate, the late Dave Watson, finished
80,481 votes behind the third Nationalist,
Josiah Thomas. Cox beat the Langster who
figured in each final count by 165,144, Greene
beat him by 155,979, Hardy by 173,903. And
for at least 100,000 of each surplus they
can thank Lang.
Lidcombe and Newington State hospitals
are in Lang's electorate, Auburn, and in
PERCY ( leading a straight right) : “Take that
for a start. And it’s nothing to what
I’ll do to you in Auburn.”
Federal Reid, for which his tame Gander got
in last month. The inmates have the fran-
chise, and in 1930 the hospital boxes gave
Lang a majority of just on 41 to 1—960 for
and 215 against. Now little Coleman, the
defeated Labor member for Reid, asserts, re-
ferring particularly to Lideombe, that “the
inmates were offered free beer and bribes to
obtain their votes.” Coleman has offered to
come out against Lang when that gentleman
is forced to go to the country, and the
Federal A.L.P. organisation cordially
approves.
Thompson, M.'H.R. for New England, has
explained that the Country party will keep
the Lyons Ministry “up to the collar” in the
matter of the tariff. But there is always a
chance that the Ministry will recommend it
to boil the collar and hang it out to dry.
When 16 members think one way and 39
think the other way it is better for the 16
not to begin throwing language about.
The Commonwealth owed the Westminster
Bank £5,000,000 on New Year’s Day and
paid £250,000, wangling a renewal of the
difference. It was generally assumed that
it paid the quarter-million out of its own
money, but the “S. M. Herald” alleges that
it borrowed the amount from the Common-
wealth Bank. British loans being “off” at
present, Australia owes the Commonwealth
Bank a trifle of £30.000,000, in addition
to having annexed all the gold in the joint-
stock banks. One of the reasons why the
banks have so little money to lend to Private
Enterprise is that they have been cleaned
out in this wholesale fashion.
t A. C. Waters, general manager of the
Newcastle dockyard and engineering work-
shops, lias been sacked at two days’ notice
by Davidson, the Minister of No-Works—
the gentleman who, with five other Lang
Ministers, tried to convert Adelaide to the
Boss’s “plan,” with the result that the two
Lang-planners who stood for Adelaide Fed-
eral seats lost their deposits. The yard is
to be placed under a committee of manage-
ment, with a “workers’ representative” on
it, and Davidson to mess around generally;
so taxpayers may now expect the worst.
Waters believed in piecework and in paying-
bonuses for skill and devotion to duty; in
short, he outraged “Labor principles.”
“Labor principles” are that good amd bad
employees, workers and loafers, the brainy
and the brainless should be paid the same.
So exit Waters.
Davidson, who is member Cobar, in
which there -are many A.W.TI. men, must
be getting anxious about his seat. Inter-
viewing himself in the “Labor Daily” he
suggested a “unity conference.” “Let bygones
be bygones,” he said. The reply of Paddy
Keller, president of Lang’s organisation,
was to expel Blakeley, Watkins and Riley,
M’s.II.R., and all the defeated Federal Labor
candidates for four years; and now David-
son is expected to explain that he misre-
ported himself.
The proposed extortion of £5,000,000 or
so from the N. S. Wales insurance offices
may not come off, even if Governor Game
allows the Upper House to be crammed with
another batch of trade-union secretaries and
“organisers.” The Federal Constitution,
which Lang has almost forgotten, says that
the making of laws dealing with “Insurance,
other than State insurance, also State insur-
ance extending beyond the limits of the
State concerned,” is a Commonwealth
matter. . Scullin and Theodore might not
have insisted on this point, but they are out,
and Lang helped to push them out. Also
Bang’s law about the branding of goods to
promote the use of N.S.W. products is liable
to suffer skull-fracture through coming in
violent collision with the Federal excise law,
just as did a newspaper tax in other days.
The Bank of N. S. Wales has sent out
another booklet whoso aim is to hold up
exchange—the old 130 rate was general-
manager Davidson’s baby, and he hates to
see. her stature reduced. But the most inter-
esting part of the document —which is signed
by Professor Shann, among others—is that
which shows how the Commonwealth and
the several States are living up to the
scheme adopted by the Conference (June,
1931). The Commonwealth was asked to
bring its anticipated deficit down to 4.38 mil-
lion pounds; actually, it now expects a small
surplus. Victoria will also do a shade better
than it was expected to do; Queensland a
shade worse; W.A., S.A. and Tas. will about
strike even. But N. S. Wales, which the
Conference expected to show a deficit
of 5.41 millions —the figure Lang undertook
to attempt to reach—will have a deficit of
8 millions. It suggests, of course, that,
whereas the others have honestly tried to
reach the expected figures, Lang hasn’t. It
may be that a crash will suit his book
best.
Before the Federal dissolution it was im-
possible to reach Melbourne from any part
of Victoria without passing over large
stretches of Labor territory. It made no
difference whether a traveller set out from
the western border, from the source of the
Murray on the north-east, from Rochester
on the north, from mid-Gippsland on the east
or from Geelong on the south. Now only
three strips of inner Melbourne north of,
and a bit south of, the Yarra are dyed pink.
Scullin, Maloney, Anstey (who just scraped
in) and Holloway constitute the remnant of
the 13 Laborites elected two years ago
Scullin’s heart must sink when he thinks
of it, but he bears up bravely; indeed no
defeated Commonwealth leader has taken a
licking with a better grace.
It has, leaked out that Lang’s new Milk
Board is to get £3294 p.a. for its services,
whereas the old board did the job for £1599
p.a. Ex-Speaker Simon Hickey, who was on
the old board, was paid two guineas a sitting,
YOUNG MR. MARTIN: “Absolutely the best
cow I ever milked.”
or £lO5 p.a.; J. M. Martin, who supplants
Hickey, is to pocket £956 p.a. Of course,
Martin is a defeated Lang-planner, and if
Lang can't billet defeated Lang-planners on
the taxpayers and give them fancy salaries,
what’s the good of being Lang?
The people, of the Western Downs, of
which Dalby is the centre, are campaigning
briskly against the proposal of the Queens-
land Electoral Commissioners to abolish the
Dalby electorate and include it in another,
to. be named Auburn. Dalby’s association
with Parliament dates from the beginning of
self-government in Banan aland, and some of
Queensland’s big political guns have thun-
dered in the Assembly as Dalby represen-
tatives ; among them were Joshua Peter
Bell, his son J. T. Bell, Hugh Nelson, Wil-
liam Miles and J. S. Jessop. Dalby’s latest
member was W. A. Russell, who died in
Sydney at the week-end. Auburn was the
name of a station in the part of the Burnett
to be included in the new electorate, but
Dalby hasn’t the slightest desire to share
it with Lang’s constituency.
The Welsh National party has intimated its
desire to separate from England. It wants
FOUNDER OF NATIONAL PARTY, AUSTRALIAN
PARTY, ETC: “My ideal party at last!
Now I’m ‘set.’”
separate representation on the League of
Nations, a separate tariff, a Governor (or
possibly a King) who has been born in Wales
and can speak Welsh (this might supply a
billet for W. M. Hughes), full status as a
Dominion, and the return of the county of
Monmouth, which was swallowed by England
in 1535 when Henry VIII. was feeling
hungry. Wales spread over most of England
at one time when it was feeling fresh and
vigorous, and the Romans let it spread. But
the Saxons, Jutes and Angles chased the
nation into the west, and then followed it in
a persistent way until it lost its identity in the
south of Scotland, and in Cornwall, and in
the kingdom of Lyonesse. and in the centre of
England, and began to talk English. It retains
its racial purity in a small region because, as
with the Scottish Highlands, there is little
worth stealing except the scenery, but to sort
out the Parliaments, the debts and the
respective defence forces seems hardly worth
while. The two peoples don’t hate each other
enough to make it worth while.
After, the Armistice a few shiploads of
Australian wheat were sold to Roumania,
whose granaries had been emptied by the
hungry Germans, and Roumanian bonds
(face value, £120,000) were accepted from
the buyer, who was financially embarrassed.
They are among the possessions which
“Bull” Ryrie guards in London. Annual
interest was due on June 21, and Lang’s
share was to have been £1200; but the
Auditor-General notes sadly that “payment
has been postponed for one year in accord-
ance with the Hoover moratorium.” Now
that the Hoover moratorium has been ex-
tended, there won’t be any Roumanian money
this year either. Lang, who regarded the
moratorium as a weapon with which “Labor”
could smite its opponents without the slight-
est danger to itself, is naturally disgusted,
and another attack on Theodore, whose
father came from Roumania, is believed to
be imminent.
N.S.W. Labor has a Latin element, and
hitherto the Latins have been lucky on the
whole; but they are going under with the
Lang “plan,” which they all espoused. At
the municipal elections one of the three Laz-
zariui brothers was defeated in Young, of
which he was mayor, and Lithgow heaved
out Alderman Luclietti. That young gentle-
man got it in the neck again in Macquarie,
for which he was the Lang-pl'an candidate;
and Werriwa rejected Peter Lazzarini, who
had been its Federal member for 12 years.
Lamaro, Lang’s Attorney-General, was to
have been the Lang-plan candidate for Lang.
The hurrying on of the elections prevented
his nominating, otherwise he would have
probably have suffered a worse licking than
the man, Alderman Mulcahy, who took his
place. He went to Adelaide to spout for
the two Lang-plan candidates, who lost their
deposits, returned without doing any spout
ing, and found on studying the election
returns that Petersham, his electorate, had
turned down the “plan.” So did Marrick-
ville,. which is misrepresented by Carlo
Camillo Lazzarini; Petersham and Mar-
rickville are both parts of Lang. Carlo is
the Lazz. whom Lang dumped from his
Ministry five years ago.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Taylorpoint” : Annette Kellerman is tour-
ing Germany with a company of mermaids
and dancers, and in a Saxon town off the
beat of tourists the other night an attendant
was asked if there wasn’t an Australian in
the show —if there was, the inquirer would
very much like to meet the strange
creature. The attendant: took him along to
Fred Wooster, Annette’s brother-in-law and
manager. “I'm told there’s an Australian
in your company,” said the visitor, speaking,
of course, in German. “Yes, I’m Austra-
lian,” Wooster answered —-in bad German.
“Ah!” the Saxon exclaimed —and his face
beamed. Then, slapping Wooster on the
back, he shouted in one word, “Hullo you
old !” Wooster tried him then in
English. No, he didn’t know any English,
but" he’d been taken prisoner in the war by-
Australians, who had been kind enough to
teach him the national salutation. And he’d
come to the show expressly to show it off.
* ❖ *
“ Jeames”: Lady Yule, of the yacht Nahlin,
who annoyed lion-liunting Melbournites by
letting it be known that she didn’t want to
have anything to do with them, belongs to
a vanishing school. Before the war at least
80 per cent, of rich British tourists were
haunted on their travels by fears that their
social inferiors would try to strike up an
acquaintance with them, and boast of it
afterwards. I travelled on a P. and O. ship
20-odd years ago with an old peer and his
numerous family, and for three ghastly weeks
they huddled in a corner when on deck, spoke
to no one but the skipper and some stewards,
and wore the appearance of nervous sheep
when commercial travellers and the like
came near them. It was an extension of a
convention which still exists in England:
“Never talk to strangers in trains.” “Train-
babblers” are more abominated by frequenters
of first-class carriages than window-openers.
It is not so in the U.S.A. where everyone
train-babbles; and Americans, however rich,
are approachable, as a rule, on liners and in
foreign hotels. The Vanderbilts, who shunned
Australian society as carefully as Lady Yule
during their recent visit, were the exceptions
that prove the rule; like her, they are middle-
aged, and they are as English as she is in
their affiliations. It was the Prince who
broke a tradition which, until he began his
travels, had existed ever since Britons first
THE SPIRIT OF SACRIFICE.
HUSVAND (after sixty minutes’ storm):
“Well, if I make my own cigarettes,
will you make your own dresses?”
became world-wanderers; and he did it as
quickly as his great-grandmother ended the
custom of “sitting over wine.” Partly as a
matter of policy, but partly, also, no doubt,
because he is naturally gregarious, he made
a point of getting on friendly terms with
people of all classes wherever he went. He
barred nothing but smugness. Nowadays
when a travelling Briton is hail fellow wed
met with all and sundry he is much more
likely to be a member of the Marlborough
than a cardsharper.
* * * *
“Jules”: There is a Darlinghurst saying:
“In N. S. Wales 18,000 have gun licenses,
and twice as many have guns.” Residents
of Paris are required to carry identification
papers, and the haunts of the Reds and
other undesirables are regularly raided by
police patrols, those without papers being
removed in vans for further inquiries. If
the system were applied to the Sydney resorts
where crooks are known, to foregather, and
if magistrates were empowered to give
those found with unauthorised weapons sen-
tences at least as stiff as those regularly
handed out to sly-groggers (viz., nine
months), the city's enormous annual tally of
shootings would be soon lowered. As things
are it is safer for a criminal to carry an
unlicensed revolver than it is for a motorist
to drive on an old license.
“Busby” : The latest educational establish-
ment to stage an uprising against constituted
authority is Roseworthy Agricultural College
(S.A.), where over threescore lads obtained
wide publicity by going on strike last week.
They disliked the food, it appears, and they
disliked the discipline, which they regard as
over-harsli for youths between 16 and 20 —
in this regard an agricultural college seems
to stand somewhere midway between a public
school and a university—and in particular
they disliked the principal. The Minister of
Agriculture butted in by threatening to “sack
the lot” unless they returned to duty, but pun-
ishment on such an epic scale as that seems
hardly feasible and would come with speci-
ally bad grace from a Labor Government.
Even when “barring-outs” were occasionally
indulged at English public schools a century
or so ago, there is no record of the govern-
ing bodies ever having a clean sweep of the
whole student body and starting operations
again de novo. When authority must be
maintained and ringleaders are unidentifi-
able, there is something to be said for an
adaptation of the Roman military practice of
decimation.
-1: * * *
“Oxmoad”: The word “dole,” familiar
nowadays wherever English is spoken, is offi-
cially frowned on by the N.S.W. Labor Gov-
ernment ; a sergeant of police told a country
THE EVERLASTING CHASE.
“Mabel was lucky—she was in England all through the hunting season.”
“Splendid! Catch anythingf”
magistrate the other day that the force had
received instructions to substitute “Govern-
ment relief.” Why this should be regarded
as more pleasant-sounding Heaven only
knows; “outdoor relief” carries with it sin-
ister associations of English workhouses and
being “on the parish.” Webster schedules
“dole” applied to charity as archaic, and
another “dole” (from the Latin dolus ), mean-
ing “guile, deceit or fraud,” as rare. Which
recalls a delightful old whist story told
by Cavendish or Clay some 50 years ago.
An argument arose among a party of club
players as to what was the Latin for “trick”
in the card sense, and a looker-on was
deputed to settle the question by recourse to
a Latin dictionary. He returned with the
volume and solemnly read from it: '‘Dolus, a
trick; Doctus dolus, a taught trick.” One
player, who had just swept up his “book.”
secured the odd trick and with it game and
rubber at this point. “There you are,” he
announced triumphantly to Iris opponents,
“there’s the ‘Doctor’s bolus’ for you!”
* * * *
“Stars and Bars”: A statue has been
erected to an American who “invented the
ironclad Monitor, first of all armor-clad battle-
ships.” The first armored fighting-ship was
the French Gloire, completed in 1860. The
first to go into action was the Confederate
ship Merrimae, which sank the Yankee ships
Cumberland and Congress in Hampton
Roads in 1862. She was later engaged by
the Monitor; after a long contest both
retired. The Merrimae was a barge with a
hastily fitted penthouse, topsides armored
with steel rails, and was a wonderful job
considering the few engineering facilities at
the disposal of the Confederacy. The Moni-
tor was a low freeboard single-turret ship
armored with heavy plate, and was built in
Annapolis navy yards.
“Taltingan” : The gentlemen of the Purple
Press had a very good innings while the fires
were burning in
western N. S.
Wales; but the one
who said that “half
the State is a blaz-
ing inferno” prob-
ably wins the prize.
Of course, the
thi n g is very
serious, but a fire
out west isn’t a
blazing inferno or
even a seething
cauldron. The aver-
age of the country
where the fires have
been runs about a
sheep to 10 acres.
In most seasons
there isn’t enough
“grass” to keep
more than a bandi-
coot and a half
to the squaire mile; the
bulk of the fodder is salt
bush, cottonbush, mulga
and herbage, of quick
growth and rapid decay.
Last year, however, was
phenomenal; one man grew
a fair crop of wheat near
Menindie, in country that
is liable to five drought
years out of six. Drought
there means less than siu.
of beneficial rain ; that is,
rain which will do any good
—odd points can do more
harm than good. And
heavy rains can do harm,
too, apart from flooding;
most of this “grass” which
has been burned is dry,
decaying stuff which was
beaten down by the heavy
rains of early summer and
left good for nothing but
manure. Bush fire in that
country thus means a quick
run of fire along a patch
of tinder, leaving large
spaces untouched. But
often the patches of tinder
lead up to a stock-proof (maybe rabbit-
proof) fence, with dry grass and rubbish all
along it, either grown there or banked up
by wind; and that’s where the big
damage is done—a fence may run past £5O
a mile. Beating such a fire out isn’t ex-
citing, but no job could be hotter, because
it has all to be done with hand-beaters
(mostly leather), and so great an area has
to be covered in the process.
“Burschen”: In spite of the efforts of
the reformers and the growing vogue in Ger-
many of tennis and football, the old custom
of the schlagerfest, the friendly duel with
sabres between representatives of the dif-
ferent student corps, still flourishes. A test-
case in a recent Berlin court was dismissed,
the Judge holding that the schlager was not
a deadly weapon. As the duels are fought
with the contestants padded and begoggled,
leaving only the top of the head and the
face bare, a deadly weapon it is not, but it
can inflict a nasty cut. Only the head may
be played for and no moving of the feet is
allowed. The resultant scars used to be the
student’s most prized possession, though they
have been discounted since the war. when so
many soldiers returned seared with bayonet
and shrapnel wounds on face or head.
:|j * ❖
“Strict Vcg.”: Prof. Bernard Heinze, of
Melb. University, recently announced that
the day of the charlatan in Australian music
was done. Personally I think he has only
shifted his address to the broadcasting
stations. The A.8.C., for instance, is
obliged under its contract to blow an
occasional kiss to the classics, so it some-
times puts over a Beethoven concerto or
quartet or a Brahms symphony, if a
Rotarian luncheon or a cricket match doesn’t
interfere. But it seems that the music-
loving public, which provides the profits
for the A.8.C., finds it too much of a strain
to listen to a symphony or a concerto all
at one go, so it gets it in small doses —one
or two movements at a time. First comes
the allegro sostenuto, and then an interval
while Miss Worm-in-the-bud sings “You Are
My Heart’s Delight” and “My Unconscious
Is Longing for You.” This prepares you
for the adagio, if Miss Worm-in-the-bud
hasn’t driven you to bed. After the adagio
Mr. Kasnoops chats in his light-hearted way
about the cricket scores, or your attention
IF YOU WANT A THING DONE PROPERLY-
DEAR: “I’m not one to carry tales, Eunice, but for your late
dear husband’s sake I think you ought to know the
stories going about you and the old Colonel,”
EUNICE: “No need to worry, dear—I know. I started them.”
is respectfully drawn to Miss Amy Stringer
and her mandoline, or Mr. Hoarsevoice, bass,
obliges with some oid English ditties. And
so on. If somebody pasted a lot. of mbvie
posters over a masterpiece of painting the
effect would be the same.
****
“Mells” : The “Lancet” is responsible for
a quaint story about a Perth (W.A.) estate-
agent, who was found at midnight wander-
ing about Perth (Scotland) and demand-
ing to be told why he
couldn’t recognise his
surroundings. He had
£2OO on him, beside some
evidences of his iden-
tity., and he was taken
to an asylum, where his
memory slowly returned
and his toucliing story
was pieced together. He
had returned home, it
appeared, and purchased
a small business in
Somerset, but, “terri-
fied at the idea of sett-
ling down after the free
open-air life in Aus-
tralia,” he temporarily
lost his reason. In this
state of mind he rushed
to the nearest railway
station and took a ticket
for Perth —the trouble
was that the Perth he
had in mind wasn’t the
one he got to. The
“Lancet” says learnedly
that “this is an instance
of what doctors call
hysterical fugue, in
which memory is lost
but a single idea per-
sists.” Maybe, but Aus-
tralian estate-agents are seldom so addicted
to wandering about the wide open spaces
that the prospect of living among bricks and
mortar is liable to upset tlieir reason ; and
if it comes to “free open-air life” Somerset
could probably provide as much as. or more
than, St. George’s-terrace or Hay-street.
Considered as a medical diagnosis, it is just
possible that “hysterical fudge” would be
nearer the mark.
* * * *
“D. A. Goe”: Touching the Italian as a
gambler (R. G/l/’32), it is possible that
lie does not bulk big in the North Queens-
land two-up schools and kindred take-downs,
but he is an inveterate addict to flutters of
his own invention. One of these is morra,
which can be seen in action anywhere
between Gib. and Smyrna, or anywhere else
where a party of Italians, Greeks and
assorted Levantines are gathered together—
in several Sydney clubs, to go no farther.
Morra consists in guessing the number of
fingers held up simultaneously by an oppo-
nent, something on the lines of the mid-
Victorian parlor game, of “Peter says
‘Thumbs up!’ ” It sounds simple, but the
game is played at such bewildering speed
by the experts that any mug butting in is
not long in realising his deficiencies. It is
a heavy gambling game, and one entirely
lacking in the Olympian detachment of
two-up.
*
“Runa”: Quite true that when Federa-
tion was in the air (B. 6/l/’32) there were
many enthusiasts, Maoriland-born and other-
wise, who thought the .small Dominion would
be acting insanely if it kept outside the
partnership. One youthful cleric from Vic-
toria preached an impassioned sermon implor-
ing .Maorilanders not to miss the chance of
joining up with their “great sister” across
the Tasman. To-day. as an elderly and
popular canon, lie would probably disown
the greater part of that long-ago sermon,
particularly the concluding lines, wherein he
thumped the pulpit and said he would not
stay in MX. should it stand apart. The
late Robert Stout held very different views,
and when asked if he had a good argument
against Federation made his historic reply
of “Yes, twelve hundred arguments, each a
mile long!”
BALLADE OF CURVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Curves have returned to the feminine figure, but
they must not be allowed to run riot.”
-—Fashion note in Sydney paper.
Ring out the contours that conveyed
Suggestions of a boyish frame,
The envied dream of many a maid,
The shape at which full many a dame
With dubious success would aim
By dint of hard massage and diet!
Be careful, Phyllis, all the same,
Lest those alluring curves run riot.
No longer need you be afraid
Or pleadingly exemption claim
When slimmer girls are getting weighed.
Well-cushioned limbs are in the game
Once more. They’ll give your latest flame,
Believe me, not the least disquiet.
Your piquant plumpness none will blame
Unless you let those curves run riot.
Ring out the humbug that essayed
Our Venuses to cramp and maim—
How few there were that made the grade
And near-Adonises became
Beneath the duds that sex proclaim,
From Cora Lynn to Chiswick Eyot!
Now rounded forms shall none defame
Save when their fulness runs to riot.
Phyllis, you’ve never disobeyed,
Howe’er distasteful, Fashion’s fiat.
Now you can look as you were made!
But, mind, those curves must not run riot.
N.s.yv.
IFORD.


“Lao-dah”: When Mars is in the
ascendant nonsense comes into its own. Most
of the “news” from Tokio and Nanking
comes under the category of tripe, but it is
solemnly accepted at face value by Aus-
tralian papers not otherwise remarkable for
their gullibility. A cable gravely related
the other day that “extraordinary results
are accompanying the Japanese aggression,”
one of the extraordinary results being the
offer of 800,000 Chinese Buddhist monks to
take up arms in defence of the Fatherland.
Of this impressive force 200,000 are said to
be “fit for service.” A Buddhist monk is
usually a young calf wdio finds tilling the
family acres a tiresome job and applies
at the local monastery to be initiated into
the mysteries of the faith. He is garbed in
a yellow robe, his head is shaved and sundry
wafers are gummed on his poll. These are
lit, and he is expected to stand without
batting an eyelid until they have burnt
themselves out, leaving a large scar behind.
This is about the only austerity demanded
as a demonstration of his ability to renounce
the flesh and enter into Buddhahood. The
rest of his life he spends eating and sleeping
plentifully in the beautiful precincts of the
monastery, varying his strenuous life by
walking around the emblems in the temple
PICKED THREE WINNERS.
“Did she make all her money by good investments?”
“Every penny of it. She had three rich husbands.”
mumbling, “Namo O-me to Fu” in a somno-
Lnt voice. There is a Chinese proverb:
Over against the monastery there is a nun-
nery ; there may be nothing in it, but there
may be.” This reflects local opinion of the
Buddhist monk’s renunciation of the world.
FIRS T- HAND EVIDENCE:
THE SOLICITOR: “And you say that your husband, led an extremely loose life with a
woman before you married him.”
THE LANDY: “Oh yes. I can ;prove that, because I was the woman.”
“F.S.”: When Justus Jorgensen, the
Melbourne artist, was in Paris copying Old
Masters at the Louvre, a well-dressed gentle-
man stood behind his shoulder day after
day watching him at work. Subsequently
he introduced himself as an art dealer from
Holland, and arranged to see Jorgensen in
his studio. There he explained that he
had been so impressed at the painter's
facility in the art of making faithful copies
of other people’s pictures that he was
anxious to give him a permanent position.
He offered him £BO a week to copy, not
only Old, but more recent Masters like
Corot. The copies were to be handed to an
agent in Paris, who would forward them
to Amsterdam, where they would be duly
sold as originals to American, English
and, no doubt, Australian patrons. If the
police should suddenly take a professional
interest in the business a telegram with a
prearranged code word would arrive for the
artist, who would have plenty of time for
booking an air passage for England. Jor-
gensen turned down what was probably the
most, lucrative post ever offered to a junior
Australian painter.
* * * $
“Jungor” ; It was the liev. Collick, a big-
hearted and unconventional Anglican, who
hit on the idea at the end of last century of
mustering as many natives as possible at
Ivalgoorlie and giving them a Gargantuan
Christmas feed. As years went on the fame
of the shivoo spread far and wide, until
the festive season saw abos. from hundreds
of miles away converging on the goldfields
city for “big-fellow tucker.” Gins as well
as bucks would sit down to a blow-out
consisting largely of immense joints, backed
by stores of duff that might have taxed the
capacity of a regiment. It was a midday
swarry, in the blazing heat of summer, but
never before or since have I seen trencher-
men or trencherwomen who came within
coo-ee of Collick’s guests. After the annual
stoking ceremony, they would lie about
for hours, gorged like snakes, but there were
plenty to return for the residue of the vic-
tuals next day. Probably it was as good
a way as any other of introducing the
heathen to some of the blessings of Chris-
tianity, but it generally took the diners some
weeks to drift back to their.native haunts,
and there was a tendency to regard them,
with their mangy dogs and their mendi-
cant habits, as an undesirable addition to
the floating population. But the white com-
munity was prepared to put up with a good
deal to enable Collick to feed his proteges.
“Epee” : The savour of old tradition still
lingers about the sword, though the aver-
age soldier now buys his at an outfitter's
and has it girded on by an unsentimental
batman instead of his lady
love. Also it goes to parade
or battle unblessed by priests,
and the blade no longer
carries admonitions of the
“Draw me not without
cause, sheathe me not with-
out honor” vintage. In
spite of all that the cliival-
ric atmosphere cropped up
the other day when one
Baron von Lersner, a Ger-
man ex-officer, had his
sword, taken from him when
he and his Uhlan patrol
were captured by the British
in 3914. returned to him in
Berlin through the British
Embassy. His captor, Lieu-
tenant Marix, was then a
British cavalry officer ; after-
wards, joining the air force,
he served in the Dardanelles.
Hearing that hi* old-time
foe was working in a Ger-
man bank, he hastened to
make restitution.
* * Hi
“Censor”: The co-re. who
“does the right thing” by
espousing his partner in
giddiness as soon as the
weight flag—otherwise the
decree absolute—is hoisted
is going to get a set-back if
the latest move by the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury is fol-
lowed by the clergy. The
Archbishop cannot over-ride
English law, which permits
the remarriage of divorced
people, but he expresses his
desire that his shepherds will refuse,
to perform the ceremony if either party has
an ex-spouse living - . His Grace intimates
that the proper course in such cases is to
politely inform applicants that there is a
registry office just round the corner which
will be quite good enough for the likes of
them. That, is all very well, but the aver-
age padre will not view with pleasure the
prospect of turning away fees. Then there
are the vergers and pew-openers to be con-
sidered, not to mention the florists and
dressmakers.
‘‘Bert the Carpenter”: I quite agree that
it is often a fine point as to what consti-
tutes an accident arising out of a man’s
employment (B. 16/12/'3l). A brick-
layer working on a high scaffold at Port
Adelaide some years ago ate his lunch up
there; when the whistle at a near-by mill
showed that, it was time to resume work he
rose, put his lunch-bag to one side, tried
to toss the tea-leaves out of his billy, over-
balanced, fell, and broke his neck. As the
scaffold upon which he was standing com-
plied with all the regulations, and as he
should have been working ten seconds sooner,
the widow received nothing but what we
raised by voluntary subscriptions among the
workers in the building trades.
* * * *
Nakhoda : With a friend I dropped into
a meeting of the Communist party in
Lonsdale-street, Melbourne. The hall was
packed, women being almost as numerous
as men. An undergraduate from the Uni-
versity was telling them about the
Five-year 1 lan. When question-time came
queries were fired at him concerning
the politics of Germany, Italy, France,
America China and Japan, the subjects
dealt with being as numerous as the racial
origins in. the audience. Among the resolu-
tions carried unanimously was one demand-
ing the release of Noulens, the Com-
munist agent who was recently arrested by
the international authorities at Shirmhai
and sentenced to death by the Chinese
although probably SO p.c. of the con-reo-a-
Bon had never heard of the man before.
At the door was a table covered with Soviet
propaganda. Behind the chairman’s head
was a huge scroll on a roller with the
words of the “Internationale” printed on it in
large letters. Two of the lines exposed were:
We peasants, artisans and others, enrolled amoiw
the sons of toil, ‘ °
Let’s claim the earth henceforth for brothers, drive
the indolent from the soil.
t/w friend has a farm, with mortgage, in
* * * *
“Retired Beak”: The world is getting
very tired of the individual who “borrows”
motor-ears and leaves them in
a ruined condition, when he has
done with them. In N.S.W
and Victoria a trifling fine stili
continues to be the penalty in
most cases, but Queensland,
where special legislation has
lately been passed, is taking a
sterner view of the nuisance.
In Brisbane a youth of some
gilding was the first case pre-
sented under tlie new Act. He got six months’
hard without the option. lie might have
fared even worse in South Africa. Some
ear thieves there have been sentenced to
three years and a flogging.
* * " '* *
“Subbubs”: “Gad” wrote from the track
(B. 6/l/’32) : “There is not enough work
offering to absorb one-tenth of the men look-
ing for it.” And he dilated at some length
°n the sufferings of the work-chasers. One
F. Owen, of Mosman, wrote some time before
iii the “S. M. Herald,” after a 2000-mile tour
of the country: “It is astonishing to see
the hordes of well-dressed women and cigar-
ette-smoking men hanging round the police
stations in country towns waiting for the
dole.” And he went on, “To offers of work
the_ general reply is, ‘Yes. but I want the
basic wage.’ ” There you have the gist of
the problem. I would gladly give a charity-
seeker a few shillings, his dinner and a glass
of beer to mow and clip my small lawn (a job
I can do myself in a morning), but I have
never struck one who didn’t take the whole
day and demand 16s. 6d. afterwards. It
is the same with car-washing, hedge-clipping
and any other small service of the kind. The
casual works slowly, messes up the job three
times out of four (I have had one who got
speechlessly tight on it), and then expects
to be paid a pro.’s wages. At the Bar a
junior only gets two-thirds of his leader’s
fee. Why not apply the principle to the
juniors of the proletarian calling, namely
GIVING MOTHER NATURE A HAND.
THE PLAIN MAID : I wish my eyes were brown instead
of green, and. that my forehead was broader.”
THE PIOUS AUNT: “My child, you are as God made
you.”
THE P.M. : Yes, Aunt, but that was twenty-five years
ago, and girls have improved themselves wonder-
fully since then.”
the unemployed? Admittedly, there isn’t
work for one in ten at the basic wage these
hard times, but there might be work for one
in two, or better, if would-be employers
were allowed to come to arrangements with
would-be wage-earners •without fear of legal
trouble afterwards.
“Darlinghearsed”: Usually it is in the
small country town that the jaek-of-all trades
is found ; Sydney’s little Alsatia can supply
one. In the morning he collects bottles, skim-
ming the cream of a trade which is largely
dependent on the night before; later in the
day lie is a flower-seller, except on Friday
morning, when he bursts into the fish busi-
ness ; at night he enters into the musical
game as far as a wheezy gramophone, fitted
with out-of-date records, will allow. Sun-
day sees him selling papers. When the
agent was asked to send round a man to
clean the windows of our flat the same
chap surprised us by turning up in a new
capacity ; and on another occasion he was
discovered at the garage of a friend, clean-
ing a motor-car. I should not be surprised
if m man so industrious drew the dole and
the invalid pension as well.
* ❖ :f:
“Zodiac”: Touching the activities of
train-jumpers on the Trans, line (B.
23/12/’3I), conditions have been greatly im-
proved at the Ivalgoorlie end since “Macer’s"
paragraph was written. The State authori-
ties have fallen into line with those of S.
Aus., and any stowaways found on trains,
passenger or goods, travelling eastwards are
promptly returned to Ivalgoorlie. Two or
three such frustrations are a sufficient deter-
rent for all but the most hardened train-
jumpers. . Also, as far as the police can
manage it. men travelling per boot along
the railway track, unless carrying sufficient
food for themselves, are returned to Kal-
goorlie. The system is removing a menace
to the fettlers’ camps, for such travellers
bad a habit of banding together and demand-
ing food. If refused, they took it.
NO FLOWERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For the third time within a few weeks the
people have definitely rejected the Lang Plan, what-
ever that means.”— Ex-Speaker Dan Levy.
They’ve spurned it and they’ve slaughtered
it, they’ve hanged and drawn and
quartered it;
They’ve slammed it and they’ve damned
. . it for a bit of crooked biz;
Derisively or gloomily, they squelched it
with contumely ;
They shuddered at the stink of it. Strange,
when you come to think of it,
Considering that nobody could tell you
what it is.
The imprint was enough for them. The
source was quantum stiff for them.
The Lang Plan! The Gang Plan! To
veriest rags ’tis rent.
Electors made a dud of it, a thing of mock
and mud of it,
Though even the polemical and highly
academical
Dan Levy failed to figure out exactly what
it meant.
To draw a steady salary for playing to the
gallery ?
The Lang Plan! The Slang Plan!
They’ve tramped it in the mire.
To make a study sedulous of taking down
the credulous?
Is that the short and long of it? ’Tis hard
to get the strong of it,
They’re apt to shy at details, you will
find if you inquire.
To preach default unblushingly, and lavishly
and gushingly
To promise aught may sway a vote and
aught a cheer may win?
For loans to clamor roaringly, anon to
whine imploringly?
And, smothering the smirk of you when
people ask for work of you,
To fob them off with lotteries and whirl-
ing hares of tin?
Is that about the pith of it? Have voters
made a myth of it?
The Lang Plan —gone-bang Plan ! The
•squib that scarce would fizz.
With obloquy they’ve spattered it and bat-
tered it and shattered it.
You d wonder what's become of it, except-
ing for the “hum” of it....
Can anybody tell us what the Lang
Plan is?
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait. Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: FLORODORA.
CRITERION :
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT
(LAST FOUR NIGHTS).
I c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
PANTOMIME
SINBAD THE SAILOR.
KING’S THEATRE: AS HUSBANDS GO.
Public Notice.
The Producers’ Co-operative
Distributing Society, Limited.
NOTICE. Sydney.
MOTICE is hereby given that the SIXTH ANNUAL
GENERAL MEETING of Shareholders in THE
PRODUCERS’ CO-OPERATIVE DISTRIBUTING
SOCIETY, LIMITED, will be held at the CHAMBER
OF COMMERCE, GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY,
on THURSDAY, 28th JANUARY, 1932, at 10.30 a.m.
sharp.
BUSINESS:
To receive Directors’ Report and Balance
Sheet as at 30t.h September, 1931.
To elect Directors.
To elect Auditors.
To transact any other business that may
be brought forward in accordance with the
Rules of the Society.
Dated the 18th day of December, 1931.
By Order of the Board.
R. BLACKET, F.C.1.5., Secretary.
TO LET
FURNISHED. BRADLEY’S HEAD.
MAGNIFICENT HARBOR VIEWS.
GENTLEMAN’S BUNGALOW HOME, convenient
to tram and ferry, well furnished throughout, and
fitted with all modern conveniences, including refri-
geration and hot-water service, and comprising
3 reception rooms, 5 bedrooms, 3 bathrooms (includ-
ing maid’s quarters), and large garage.
This is a unique opportunity to secure the com-
forts of a spacious private home in ideal surround-
ings on the heights of Bradley’s Head for any term
to suit an approved tenant, at a reduced rental, the
owner being desirous of temporarily relinquishing
housekeeping.
For inspection ’phone Y 1442, or W\ D. GRAHAM,
Managing Agent, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone 840-76.
d
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Uauitieia,
S.E.B. Melbourne.
GOLD, GOLD, GOLD
The Best Market in Australia for your Gold,
M. FRANKLIN, 195 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
’Phone MAI 078.
References: Bank of Australasia, William Street;
Bank of N.S.W., Pitt Street, Sydney.
We pay the highest prices in Australia for all Gold:
Alluvial, Jewellery, Dental, etc. Register parcels.
Payment per return post. Sovereigns up to 33/-
each. Fine Gold up to £7/5/- per ounce, subject to
market fluctuations.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
George Pearce (62) seems to be the Old
Man of Australia’s new Ministry, unless
Fenton can give him a few years —the reconis
are queerly silent about his age. Ot the
others, Senator McLaclilan is 09, Mass,
Greene 57, Latham 54. Gullett and 1 erkms
53 Lyons and Parkhill 52. Marr 51 and
Bruce 48. Hawker is still in the thirties.
Walter Young, S.A.’s new knight, is man-
aging director of Elder Smith’s, Fred Young,
ex-Agent-General, who was knighted in lJlb
before he was elected to the House of Com-
mons, is a younger brother. The loungs
are the third S. Australian instance ot
brothers being knights at the same time, the
other cases being Lancelot and Edward
Stirling and aviators Ross and Keith Smith.
The Gaunt brothers, Ernest and Guy, ot
Vic., and the Vicars brothers, of Sydney, are
other Australian instances.
“Adelaide”: Never was a really pro-
minent citizen so little in the limelight ns
Walter Young, the most trusted man m
sight when any S.A. Ministry finds its
finances tottering. Elder Smith s, the
Adelaide Club, a stock-breeding home 30
miles out at Mount Pleasant, whenever he
can get away —such is his quiet round, and
his sturdy but rlieumatism-bent figure is not
known by sight to 10 per cent. of. Adelaide s
citizens.
Joseph Aloysius Lyons is Australia’s
tenth Prime Minister since the Common-
wealth began business, which suggests a
frequent liking for change. Still, during the
same 31 years Britain has had eight
Salisbury, Balfour, Campbell-Bannerman,
Asquith, Lloyd George, Bonar Law Bald-
win and Ramsay MacDonald. The job looks
a steadier one in South Africa, the Lmon
having had only three P.M.’s in its 22 years
of existence. And the first, Botha, died m
harness.
Brigadier-General Walter McNicoll, who
won Werriwa (N.S.W.) for the Country
party from Langster Lazzarini, has mixed
school-teaching and soldiering. Born at
Melbourne 55 years ago he was headmaster
of Geelong High School at the outbreak of
the World War, and he left Australia with
the rank of major. He was at the landing
at Gallipoli and was the first A.I.F. officer
to receive the D.S.O. Seriously wounded
while in charge of the 2nd Brigade at
Krithia, he was invalided home, to return
to the fighting • line as colonel in com-
mand of the 10th Infantry Brigade, which
helped to block the German advance between
the Ancre and the. Somme in March, 1918.
After the Armistice he became director of
the A.I.F. education scheme. Since his
return to Australia McNicoll has been prin-
cipal of the Presbyterian Ladies’ College at
Goulburn, which lie established in 1921.
Eric J. Harrison, who brought about the
downfall of Wally Marks, owes his election
to his A.F.A. connections and the district’s
cooling-off towards the “Admiral.” Il'e went
to the Crown-street Public School as a. boy,
and served for three years as an artillery-
man in the A.I.F. Tie pulled an oar in the
ERIC HARRISON, who beat “Admiral”
WALLY MARKS.
Diggers’ eight which won the King’s Gold
Cup at Henley, and is at home in the boxing
ring and the football field. For a crust
he has been managing a Sydney manufac-
turing business. The formation of the All
for Australia League gave him his chance
to reveal his strength as a debater with a
good grasp of current politics.
S Aus. has five ex-Prcmiers living—
Verran (1910-12), Vaughan (1915-17), Bar-
well (1920-24), Gunn (1924-26) and But-
ler (1927-30).
Among former M’s.H.R. who return to
Canberra is Charlie Abbott, Minister for
Home Affairs in the Bruce-Page Ministry.
Abbott wrested Gwydir from Laborite
Lucien Cunningham in 1925, lost it to
the same opponent in the 1929 swing-over,
and this time found himself in a majority
of nearly 4000 over his Federal and State
Labor opponents. Abbott’s father was a
police magistrate at Gunnedah and Ins uncle
was Speaker of the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly.
Now in his middle forties, he saw service
with the A.I.F. throughout the war. He is
secretary of the Primary Producers Coun-
cil.
A Digger reputa-
tion still counts for
a lot. Charley Cox
—"F i g h t i n g
Charley”—has led
the Senators in
N. ,S. Wales three
times now; and
Burford Sampson,
who led in Tas-
mania six years
ago, leads again on
this occasion.
Sampson, though a
youngster at the
time, won distinc-
tion in the Boer
War (Queen’s
Medal and five
clasps). He was
a 2nd Lieut, at the
Landing, but was
Colonel command-
ing the 12th Batt.
before the long
strafe was over.
W. A. Russell
whose death
occur r e d with
tragic suddenness
in Sydney last
week, was one of
Queensland’s lead-
in g pastoralists
and a prominent
P a r 1 i amentarian
to boot. Born in
Rockhampton in
1874, he came to
Sydney with his
parents, passed
through S y dney
Grammar School,
and took up wheat-
farming in the
Tamworth district,
going later to
Queensland, where
he bought Dalmon-
BURFORD SAMP-
SON —the scrutiny of
the Tasmanian Senate
figures was finished
first, and this was the.
first man counted in.
ally run, in the Roma country. A subsequent
acquisition was the Jimbour run, near
Dalby, once one of Queensland’s show places,
and here as elsewhere he introduced up-to-
date methods. He was a pioneer of motor
transport for moving sheep in drought-time
in Queensland. In the political world
Russell was a member of the Country party
before its fusion with the Nationalists. He
had been member for Dalby since 1926, when
he defeated W. J. Vowles.
Death of 80-years-old William Earnshaw
at Wellington (M.L.) removes one of the
quintet of working-men members of Parlia-
ment that was part of Maoriland’s reaction
to the maritime strike of 1890. Earnshaw
was a brass-finisher. He sat in two Parlia-
ments and disappointed his constituents by
developing into a Tory and a strong oppo-
nent of Seddon in his second term. He
nearly lost his deposit at next election.
Massey, who was fond of a mild joke, hoisted
him into the Leg. Council in 1913 as a
“Labor representative” and he was re-
appointed in 1920 and 1927. Not one of
the 1890 five was a Labor member as the
term is understood to-day, and only one,
W. W. Tanner, a boot-factory employee, was
a trade-union officer. He had a long and
useful Parliamentary career. T. L. Buick,
who was a carpenter when elected, was
defeated in 1896 by a very narrow margin,
chucked politics, became a newspaper pro-
prietor and journalist, and has written
many interesting books in a historical vein.
The others have faded out of the public
eye. Earnshaw became a marine engineer,
and was chairman of the institute of that
profession for many years.
Grey-bearded, spruce-looking Bill Graham,
of the Darlington (Sydney) Municipal Coun-
cil, will next month complete 45 years’ con-
secutive service as an alderman. He has
worn the rabbitskin four times. An Illa-
warra (N.S.W.) district native, he followed
farming in his early years, but eventually
drifted into Sussex-street as manager for
one of the big produce firms. He is 81.
Edward Riley, senior, who was defeated
in South Sydney, had held the seat since
1910. The electorate has been Labor since
Chris Watson, the first Labor Prime
Minister, represented it before Riley, but of
recent years it has lost industrial strong-
holds like Alexandria. Botany and Surry
Hills, and had Randwick and Coogce added
to it. Riley held the seat in 1925 and 1928
mainly owing to his personal popularity.
The new member. .T. T. Jennings, is an
alderman and a past mayor of Randwick.
Also, he is a Boer War veteran, and in
business hours runs a dental-supply con-
cern. i
W. R. Birks, principal of Roseworthy
College (S. Aus.), against whose rule the
students organised a strike, is himself an
old Roseworthy boy. After taking his degree
there he held various appointments in ex-
perimental farms, and both before and after
the war —where he saw service, besides
organising an agricultural training depot in
Wiltshire —he was an inspector in the
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture. From
1922 to 1927, when lie returned to liose-
worrhy, Birks was principal of the Dookie
(Vic.) Agricultural College.
H. O. Newport, who died in New
Guinea last month, was one of the
Mandated Territory’s best-known
citizens. A Queenslander, he went to
Rabaul in 1915 and took over
rhe Botanical Gardens as curator. Later
he became Director of Agriculture and held
the position until the sale of the expro-
priated properties; ho then bought planta-
tion interests in the Portland Islands, a tiny
group lying west of New Hanover, and
remained there until shortly before his death.
Newport leaves a notable monument behind
him in the remodelled Botanical Gardens at
Rabaul and the handsome avenues which are
a feature of the town.
Arthur F. Bell has been appointed Queens-
land delegate to the International Confer-
ence of Sugar-cane Technologists at Porto
Rico in March. Bell saw service with the
A.I.F. in Egypt and France, and returned
to enter the Queensland University. He
graduated ,in science in 1924, and was
awarded a four-year travelling scholarship
to study plant pathology. His investiga-
tions took him to Hawaii, Central America,
the West Indies, the Philippines, Java and
Europe, and he won additional university
degrees in California and London during the
process.
Robert Cox, of Cundletown, Manning
River (N.S.W.), hopes to keep his 103rd
birthday next month. He came to Aus-
tralia as a lad, and his first job when he
reached man’s estate brought him £l7 a
year and his keep. Later on he “worked
up” the first cedar cut. on Dumaresq Island,
on the Lower Manning. Shipwrights in
those days drew 4s. to ss. per day, and
reckoned themselves well paid.
The luck of some politicians! A few
years ago there were some hot exchanges in
the Senate between George Pearce and Teddy
Needham, sometime allies, later bitter oppo-
nents. Needham wound up by assuring
the Minister that his defeat was a certainty
at the next election. Pearce drily retorted
that he was “losing no sleep over it.” The
upshot proved that his seat was safe
enough ; it was Needham who went out with
a thud when Ms time came. He has since
made two unsuccessful attempts to return.
Now Pearce, who held office from 1914 to
1929 —a record term for any Federal Minister
—is back in his old job, with every pros-
pect of another good spin.
GANDHI, the Noisy Nuisance of India—
from a caricature in clay by Kitty
Russell-Jackson.
Richard Witty Foster, who passed out in
Adelaide last week at 75, came to Australia
from Yorkshire 51 yeaxs ago. His Parlia-
mentary career began in 1893; he sat for lo
years in the S. Aus. Assembly, and for 17
years in the House of Reps., and rose to
office in both. In his own State he was
Commissioner for Public Works in the
Premierships of Holder, Jenkins and Richard
Butler the elder, and lie was Minister of
Works and Railways (1921*23) in the
“DICKY” FOSTER, the old S.A. State
and Federal politician.
Hughes Government. He followed his old
chief Holder as M.H.R. for the Wakefield
division, and held it from 1909 until three
years ago. A bluff and outspoken politician,
Dicky Foster was always popular with both
sides.
With the retirement of Dr. Basil S. Foulds
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner Cleary has
lost a valuable officer and the employees
a good friend. He was born near Sheffield,
65 years ago, the son of Samuel Foulds,
surgeon—there has been a surgeon in this
Yorkshire family since 1781. Joining the
service in 1910 as R.M.O. in charge ot
railway camps, he was transferred to the
permanent staff in 1914, becoming in iime
chief assistant R.M.O. He took an active
interest in ambulance instruction, and the
presen! high standard of efficiency in that
branch is largely due in him.
Although 87 on January 12, Prof. \\ alter
Howchin, Adelaide’s eminent geologist, is
still physically fit and remarkably alert
mentally. Two years ago, unaided he
climbed 1200 feet at Blackrock, near Orro-
roo, in order to satisfy himself concerning
geological points of the locality. He still
pursues his research work in the interests
of science, including his contribution of
original data on pro-Cambrian fossils in tlie
Adelaide hills, and he continues to edit for
printing, as he has done for very many
years, the papers read before the _ Royal Soc.
of S. Aus., which awarded him its first Sir
Joseph Verco medal.
Britain has lost a figure who is euphemis-
tically described as its "most unconventional
nobleman” in the second Earl of Kimberley,
who certainly seems to have defied most of
the alleged traditions and obligations of his
order. Amongst other amiable eccentricities
he sought to force a duel on a fellow-county-
councillor, had foxes poisoned (and boasted
of it), frequently paid the fines of poachers
whom he had convicted from the Bench,
joined the Labor party in his old age and
backed an agricultural laborers’ strike, and
wound up by getting sued for breach of
promise of marriage when he was an octo-
genarian. His father, the first earl, was an
entirely decorous person and one of Glad-
stone’s most trusted colleagues; he was twice
Colonial Secretary, and his name survives
on the map in the huge Kimberley district
of Westralia, among other places. Lord
Wodehouse, who succeeds to the title, served
with distinction in the war, in which his
two younger brothers were killed.
Sir William Mills, dead in England at
76 will be remembered by the many Aus-
tralians who handled his firm’s most noted
—yet, according to him, far from. profitable
—product, the Mills bomb. Originally a
marine engineer, he rose to prominence as
an inventor. Britain owes to him the first
aluminium foundry established in that
country.
A much-travelled Queenslander has cast
up on his native heath in Major Leonard
Avery, D. 5.0., who has been knocking about
other quarters of the globe for over 40
years as doctor, soldier, big-game hunter,
and museum collector. He was a contem-
porary at Toowoomba Grammar School with
General Chauvel and Littleton Groom,
M.H.R., and in the long ago was prominent
as an amateur jockey and polo-player.
Indeed, he claims to have taken part in the
first game of polo played in Bananaland. The
game has always been a favorite with him;
he managed the last British team to visit
America in quest of the International
Cup.
Frank Clarke, President of Vic. Uppish
House, told that Chambah before it adjourned
that he was pretty quick on the draw with a
revolver and always slept more comfortably
when one was handy to the head of his bed.
It was the discussion of a Firearms Restric-
tion Bill that impelled him to this admission.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Five Months* Trade Figures
In November, 3929, our merchandise im-
ports exceeded our merchandise exports by
£3,002,000. Our crisis had begun, but it
was not yet old enough to affect imports. A
yoar_ later our exports for the month were
£3,058,000 ahead of our imports. For the
November lately passed our surplus was
£0,544,169. That is a performance of which
Australia has good reason to be proud.
And the performance judged by the figures
for the first five months of each of these
years lias been equally satisfactory. Still
confining ourselves to movements of mer-
chandise, we shall find that whereas in these
five months of 1929 our imports exceeded our
exports by £23,869,000, in the corresponding
months of tin* year just past the surplus was
£8,704,042. The figures have been converted
to sterling, that being the value in which
our British payments have to be made.
Actually we have done a little better even
than that. One result of Britain going off
the gold standard has been to make gold
worth in London over £6 per ounce; and
this added to the exchange has not only
increased our gold production (the gold
bonus helping there, too) but has sent large
quantities of old gold to the Mint for sale
and export. Allowing for gold imports,
adding merchandise and gold together, and
deducting a million of gold reserves exported
in .Tilly, the approximate- position is as
follows :—■
Five months 1929, Excess of Imports. . £23,244,000
» ■ .. 1930, Surplus of Exports.. 2,381,000
» » 1931, „ „ „ . . 10,722,000
May-September, both included, are the poor
exporting months of the year. Of the
£90,098.000 of merchandise exports in 12
months to the end of November, £35.557,000,
°r just under 40 p.c., was credited to the
five months. Assuming that the same pre-
parations will be maintained in the current
12. months, then the surplus of exports for
this year will be just under 27 millions
English. That is not quit* l enough to pay
our commitments. But. while it is quite
possible that some factors will work against
us—the meat-export trade, for instance, is
in a worse way than it has been for a long
time —the fall in sterling will make our gold
exports very much more valuable. These
gold exports have moved as follows in the
last four months: August. £242,065: Sep-
tember. £211.355: October, £575.494;
November, £502.949.
We may be just a little short of paying
our way this year ; but, on present appear-
ances, it will not be more than a million or
so, and, helped by the fall in sterling, we
may have quite as much to the good.
E., S. and A. Bank
Net
Busi- Profits on
ness Old Be- Written Re-
Profits. posits. Dividends. Off. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
10 p.c.
1921 202,976 4519 128,807 22,500 1,445.541
1922 330,474 7004 181,989 50,000 1,601^090
Premiums on shares, £18,150 .. 1,619,240
121 p.c.
1923 395,348 0004 178,494 50,000 1,792,098
1924 407,502 8002 187,500 07,500 2,012,602
Premiums on shares, £302,331 .. 2,314,933
Transferred to capital, £300,000 . . 2,014,933
1925 505,981 2500 243,750 05,000 2,214,004
1920 522,308 750 281,250 82,000 2,374,472
Royal Bank absorbed.
Net additions to reserves, £400,000 .. 2,774,472
1927 540,988 1250 295,313 95,000 2,920,397
Premiums on shares, £379,249 . . 3.305,646
1928 588,709 03 375,000 148,500 3,370,978
1929 591,263 375,000 159,500 3,427,741
1930 532,736 375,000 120,000 3,465,477
8 p.c.
1931 261,657 240,000 3,487,134
Contractions of £1,759,273 in deposits and
£3,168,844 in advances during the year meant
a smaller aggregate of interest margin ;
shrunken, though healthier, overseas trade
figures resulted in poorer exchange earnings
for all the banks. The loss of income follow-
ing the collapse in prices for our staples
called for a wholesale revision of asset
values; and though the position of the pri-
mary producer was relieved in January, 3931,
when the exchange rate went up to £330, it
was wholly at the expense of some other
section of the community. Thus further pro-
vision against losses on advances was still
a necessity.
The 10.. S. and A. usually informs share-
holders that provision for bad debts has been
charged against gross profit; this was done
in 3930, but last term the amount is stated
to have been debited to contingency reserve.
Though apparently relieved of a sub-
stantial charge, the admitted gross profit
(£1,275.826) slipped £33 3,932. Which sug-
gests that other assets, notably Common-
wealth bonds, may have been subject to a
more rigorous overhaul before arriving at
gross earnings. Administration exes, were cut
back £41.309, but the call for taxation was
no lighti r ; thus the net result (£261.657)
was less than half the previous year’s show-
ing ; the <li v. dropped from 324 n.c. to 8 p.c.
(payable in sterling), and £21,657 remained
for reserves.
With surplus earnings and share-premiums
visibly equal to £1 3s. 4el. per £3 of capital,
the co. is well equipped to show good returns.
Last year, indeed, tile net result was no more
than 3.3 p.c. on total funds (including the
perpetual stocks, which cost only a wink over
34 p.c.) compared with 6.3 p.c. in 3930. Yet
on share capital alone the figure was equal
to 8.7 p.c. compared with 17.7. 19.7, 39.6 and
°3.1 n.c. back to 3927. Earnings in the past
have been assisted by the co.Vinner strength ;
ever the last decade no less than £837.500
res vis’bl.v written off premises, etc.
Shareholders may rest assured that most of
(he 44 p.c. that was docked off their div. last
year lias been put by in some way or other
to safeguard assets. Because of the exchange
position £1,585,000 has been allocated to a
reserve for depreciaton of Australian cur-
rency ; but to investors who consider the
position in Australian £'s, that reserve may
be treated as genuine profit, as has been
done in the table above. Though the all-
round reduction of interest should not directly
affect profits on the lending of deposits,
it will affect the. earnings of the co.’s own
funds. A general drop of 1 p.c. in the
advance rate will mean a loss to the co. of
£41.750 p.a. in interest on the investment of
its capital, reserves and perpetual stocks.
Balance-sheet figures disclose a stronger
banking position :
Liabilities.
1926. 1930. 1931.
Notes .. .. £1,128 £1,062 £1,028
Bills, etc. .. 2,393,680 1,883,539 1,571,139
Deposits at in-
terest .. 15,538,685 20,165,727 18,735,567
Free deposits.. 12,879,946 10,115,967 9,786,854
Total . . £30,313,439 £32,166,295 £30,094,588
Assets.
Liquids . . £14,947,252 £11.256,073 £12,168,679
Advances . . 21,542,691 28,867,868 25,699,024
Premises . . 762,684 735,798 711,987
Total . . £37,252,627 £40,859,739 £38,579,600
The drop in advances exceeded the contrac-
tion in deposits by £1,409.751; thus the ratio
of the former to the latter dropped to 90.2
p.c., as against 95.3 p.c. in 1930, when the
banks were hard put to arrest a sudden de-
flation of values. The drop in bills payable,
etc-., was £312,400. while liquids were streng-
thened by £912,600, mainly by improvement
in the cash holding. Liquids were 40.4 p.c.
of outside liabilities when the books closed,
compared with 34.9 p.c. in 1930; and the
bank was holding only £3 12s. (as against
£3 17s. Id.) of the public's money for every
£1 of its own funds, including the debenture
stocks.
Scrip carrying an uncalled liability has
been rather unpopular amongst bank shares
during the past 12 months ; in the ease of the
National, for instance, the market has priced
the £lO fully-paids on a basis giving a 1 p.c.
lower return than the same co.’s scrip carry-
ing a £3 liability. The E., 8. and A.’s £3-
paids, with £2 uncalled, dropped as low as
£3 13s. in September, but have since re-
covered to £5 ss. That price returns 4.6 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Keuri Timber Co.
Written
Aug., Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1919. . 71,412 8 p.c. = 46,800 11,901 221,820
Capital returned, £135.000. Co. reconstructed.
Assets written up, £300,000 of reserves capi-
talised, one fully-paid 255. share issued for
every 15s. paid in old co.
158.883
1921.. 134,001 8 p.c. = 60,000 23,382 209,502
1922.. 87,044 8 ~ „ 60,000 19,896 216,650
Contingency fund (£11,084) taken in 227,734
1923.. 102,858 8 p.c. = 60,000 14,889 255,703
1924.. 104,569 8 ~ „ 60,000 15,822 284,450
1925.. 109,459 8 ~ ~ 60,000 14,691 319,21 S
Special depreciation .. 27,861 291.357
1926.. 71.255 8 p.c. = 60,000 13.580 253.732
Special depreciation . . 30,431 258,301
1927.. 45,88 r 6 p.c. = 45,000 11,560 247,622
Special depreciation . . 10,632 236.990
1928.. 14,069 3 p.c. = 22,500 10,951 218,208
1929.. 31,634 3 „ „ 22,500 10,752 216,590
1930.. 28,939 24,, ~ 18,750 1.0,374 216,405
1931.. 1,201 Nil 11,601 206,005
The building trade, both in Australia and
Maoriland, was dormant for most of the
year. Thus the timber business, which has
been ailing for many years, was forced, often
under financial pressure, to throw stocks
on the market at unprofitable prices. The
Kauri Co., though it got its full whack of
the business offering, lost 25 p.c. of its
turnover, and after taking stock at. £26.632
lower, gross profit (£40.696) fell sharply by
£43,917. Exes. (£39,421) could be cut only
£16,175; thus, allowing for minor reserve
adjustments, the net result was £27.738
lower at £l2Ol, and no div. -was paid.
After allowing an extra £1227 for depre-
ciation (£13,601. shown as written off in
the table) reserves were drawn on for
£10,400.
Over the past five years the lay-by has
been raided for £41,004 in order to pay
an average of less than 3 p.c. p.a. to share-
holders. and revisions of stock values have
bitten into savings for £10,632, thus reduc-
ing them to £206,005 (on paper) at Aug
31 last. But the co. remains well equipped
to take advantage of possible improvements
in trade, as balance-sheet figures show :
1922. 1926. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 161,178 80,630 13,275 11,956
Freeholds . . 155.646 146,048 98,891 90,479
Leaseholds . . 133,409 88,962 57,795 52,592
Plant, etc. .. 162,605 182,576 169,196 154,467
Stocks, etc. .. 412,997 364,333 226,303 199,371
Hook debts . . 116,718 124,178 74,218 54.752
Shares . . 93,166 143,471 148,471 1.48,421
1 n v e stments,
cash, etc. . . 94,072 99,569 223,549 267,872
Debtors (£54,752), down £69 426 in five
years, give an idea of how trade lias fallen
away. Stocks (£199,371) have been re-
duced £164,962 in tin' same period: and
as the money became free it was put out on
mortgage, etc. Including these loans and
stocks, the more or less liquid surplus
was practically unchanged at £530,039.
Shares in other cos. (£148.421) consist largely
of the holding in Vanikoro Kauri Timber.’
formed in 1926 to work concessions in the
Solomons. Earnings of this and other asso-
ciated cos. were very small last year.
The co.’s big timber holdings have been
written down £91,939 over the past five
years ; nevertheless, at 12s. (id. a share the
market values the undertaking at less than
the total of the liquid surplus. On book
values net tangibles amount to £1 11s. lOd.
per 255. share.
Mort’s Dock (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
.Tuno, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 36,637 5 p.c. = 32,500 4137 45,899
1925.. 35,857 5 „ ~ 32,500 3357 49,256
19.26.. 33,822 5 ~ ~ .32,500 1322 50,578
1927 . 40,695 5 „ „ 32,500 819.5 58,773
1928.. 29,416 5 ~ ~ 32,500. 55,689
1929.. 31,179 5 ~ ~ 32,500 54 368
1930.. 794 Nil ■ —.. 55,162
1931.. 6,626 Nil —61.78 S
The Balmain dock, established by T. ,8. Mott
in 1854 was taken over bv this no in
1875; the co. afterwards built the Jubilee'
dockyard at Johnston’s Bay and the big
Woolwich works, and in 1!)24 added two
floating basins at Waterview Bay. Though
there was a small one-in-four bonus issue
early in the piece, up to 1020 shareholders
had averaged less than 7 p.c. p.a. ; that was
partly because of liberal allowances for
depreciation. In 1920 it was decided that
assets were much undervalued, and a five-for-
eight bonus issue was handed out, mostly pro-
vided for out of sums allowed for wear and
tear prior to 1914.
Then came severe competition from the
Cockatoo (Federal) and Walsh Island
(State) docks; there was a succession of
strikes on the waterfront, and since 1920
shareholders have averaged 4.0 p.c. p.a. in
divs., equal to no more* than 71 p.c. to old
holders. Last term 125 ships were docked,
as against 102 in 1930 and 201 in 1929. The
general and electrical engineering branches
also worked at low pressure for most of the
term. The co. was fortunate in being able
to show a surplus of £6020 for the year, as
against £794 in 1930; but shareholders again
had to go hungry. Reserves now figure at
£01,758. But that, of course, doesn’t really
mean anything.
Balance-sheet figures tell no more than
they have to :—■
1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. £650,000 £650,000 £650,000
Debentures .. . . 168,735 167,9(15 168,030
Creditors . . . . 114,833 105,026 68,658
Freeholds, plant & stocks 896,025 903,631 903,005
Debtors and work . . 107,249 73,610 44,555
Cash 912 912 917
The lumping of .stocks with fixed assets at
£903,005 partly fogs tin* position. The item
covers the co.’s freeholds, two graving docks,
four floating docks, four slips and six dif-
ferent engineering branches, including a
heavy electrical department, and brass- and
iron-foundries, etc. Debtors and work
(£44,555, down £62,694 in two years) give
a rough idea of how business has fallen off.
The outside debt (£236,688) was worked
down £36,303, but the exact liquid position
depends on tlie figure at which stocks have
been taken in.
The outlook for the future largely depends
on the amount of shipping activity, and tin*
extent to which the Government dockyards
(which are being run at a loss) cut prices
to capture trade. At present about half the
inter-State vessels are laid up, and over-
seas traffic has slumped. The electrical and
engineering trades are very dull, too.
For the £1 shares, backed by 21s. lOd. in
net tangibles (book value), the market
pays 4s.
Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-op.
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Jane, 6,563
1926.. 17,166 8 p.c. = 9,503 7,663 14,226
Unexplained addition to reserves, £592.. 14.818
Special bonus of 2s. per share, £12,678_. 2,140
To Depreciation Reserve, £665.. .. 1,475
1927.. 12,385 8 p.c. = 9,909 2,476 3,951
1928.. 28,919 8 ~ ~ 12,874 16,045 19,996
1929.. 20.985 8 ~ 15,216 5,769 25.765
1930.. 17,889 8 „ ~ 16.496 1.393 27,158
1931.. 18,577 8 „ 16,998 1,579 28,737
One of Australia's most successful co-opera-
tive wool brokers, this co. last year made a
fine showing. Wool receipts touched a new
record, being 15,960 bales heavier at 112,334
bales. The carryover into the current term
was 3777 hades lighter with 14,473; thus
sales mounted to 116,111 bales, up 35,375: —
Wool Sold, Annual
Bales. Turnover. Movement.
1926.. 101,576
1927.. 66,559 £2,292,936
1928.. 75,045 2,803,130 4- £510.194
1929.. 85,896 2,714,334 88,796
1930.. 80,736 2,021,939 692,395
1931.. 116,111 1,907,366 114,573
Cash turnover (£1,907,366) was £114,573
lowed’, and commission earnings dropped
slightly. But a tight hold was kept on
outgo; and after writing off a loss of £lB7B
on rebuilding operations the year’s net
profit was £6BB better at £18,577. That was
after allowing rebates of 40 p.c. on all wool
commissions, 30 p.c. on fat stock and produce,
and 20 p.c. on all other sales. In the 1930
report it was stated that reserves were to
get more attention in future, but owing to
the past'oralists’ difficulties the board last
year felt justified in allowing the usual
rebates “after making prudent provision for
contingencies.’’ Growers have good reason
to feel pleased with results; shareholders,
too, received their usual 8 p.c. and reserves
benefited by £1579, making them £28,737.
It is about 11 years since the co. took
over John Bridge’s Queensland business and
started out to rope in producers as share-
holders. The scheme, as outlined in the pro-
spectus, provided for a 7 p.c. div. fo share-
holders ; after that the div. could not be
increased until consignors had received a
rebate of 20 p.c. on commissions. The
business went ahead rapidly, and by 1926
branches had been opened at Rockhampton
and Longreach, while in the next year activi-
ties spread to Cliarlcvillc. Those branches
continue to contribute largely to the co.’s
success, and on July 1 last the co. opened
up in Townsville. Since 1926 it has put
on an extra £102.066 of new capital (now
£216,725, up £5575 last term), commission
rebates on last year's scale have been main-
tained, and shareholders have boon handed
a regular 8 p.c., with a bonus of 2s. per
share in 1927, apparently taken out in scrip.
Though the div. is nominally 8 p.c., tin*
commission rebates put a different complex-
ion on the returns to producer-shareholders;
Clients, of course, called for more help
last year, and advances increased :
1926. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. £114,659 £211,147 £216,725
Liabilities, including
taxation reserve .. 165,124 222,593 286,423
Freeholds and lease-
holds .. .. 113,625 111,937 155,342
Plant, etc 9,908 11,281 11,246
Advances .. .. 180,013 353,389 381,377
•Cash, prepayments, etc. 1,086 787 918
Few. if any, of the advances ' are secured
directly on broad acres; they arc nearly
fill in wool liens. In order to cope with
business the'co. put, up am. additional wool
store at Bnlimba hist year, and £43,405 was
added to the premises item (£155,342) . Thus
the co. leant on outsiders for an additional
£63,830, making its total debt, including
taxation provision, £286.423. The financial
position, however, is comfortable enough, and
should give the board no grey hairs if debtors
are carefully watched.
Reserves can do with more attention, and
no doubt bonus rates and similar outgoings
will be reviewed as soon as the woolgrower
is on a better footing.
Concreters, Ltd. (Sydney)
To capture contracts for supplying drain-
age pipes to public bodies tenders have to be
cut very low these days. That, apparently,
is where this little co. scores over its bigger
competitors. Though it started off late in
192 1, just before outlay on public works
started to shrink, and paid away £20,008
of its £28,327 of capital for patent rights,
processes, etc., the co. has been able to show
£38,018 of profit during the past three years.
Shareholders received a total of 35 p.c. in
dividends over that period, and, after satis-
fying the taxgatlierer, £15.435 remained for
reserves.
Juast year the Water Board and other
bodies revised their estimates, but the co.
secured its share of the business offering.
Before providing for taxation a profit of
£7026 was disclosed, and though that was
£9366 short of the previous year’s figure it
was equal to 28 p.c. on capital, compared
with 61.1 p.c. in 1930. The div. was reduced
by 5 p.c. to 10 p.c., and after setting aside
£2200 for taxation, £2OOO was carried to
patents reserve and £893 to the general
lay-by. At Sept. 30 shareholders could see
all but £4573 of their capital represented
by tangible assets.
The scrip has an active market, the public
being attracted by the speculative value of
the patents. So far these have proved to be
well worth their book value ; but what the
future holds it is impossible to say. The
directors, however, are confident. The co.
has only £2517 in plant, etc., the more or less
liquid surplus amounting to £24.937. Sun-
dry debtors (£32,035, up £7520) comprise the
bulk of the assets. Outside creditors figure
at £8441.
Latest quotes for the scrip are buyers
18s. 3d., sellers 19s. Od. At 18s. Od. the
return is 10.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis,
and the backing amounts to 16s. Bd. per
share in net tangibles.
City Freeholds, Ltd. (Sydney)
To- Norni-
, Dividends x wards nal
t Net Pref. Re- Reser-
June, Profit. (8 p.c.) Oi'd. serves, ves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1925 f. 4,607 3,617 ~ 1050 1050
1926.. 19,210 10,400 6 p.c. = 9,600 260
1927.. 19.994 10,400 6 ~ „ 9,600 ' 254
1928.. 20,572 10,400 61 „ ~ 10,400 26
1929.. 23,509 10,400 8 ~ ~ 12,800 309 335
1930.. 29,684 10,400 12],. ~ 19,600 19
1931.. 19,616 10,400 5f „ ~ 9,200 16 35
•Preliminary exes., £9475 to commence, were
transferred to property account in 1927. fApproxi-
mately six months.
This co. took over Joynton Smith's Imperial
Arcade and tiie freehold of the Hotel Arcadia,
Ltd., in 1925, for £115,660 in cash and
±166,660 in ords. The public provided
£136,660 in 8 p.c. cum. prefs. to help finance
the deal; this scrip carried tiie additional
right, in the event of liquidation, of being
repayable at half the average premium quoied
on ’Change for the shares during the preced-
ing 12 months. The price paid for the pro-
perties was equal to Richardson and
Wrench’s valuation, and the prospectus put
profits, subject to certain alterations to tin l
building, at £18,783 a year.
After the first six months profits beat
prospectus estimates. Woolworth’s became
tenants in the basement, and in November,
1928. David Jones opened their new prem-
ises almost opposite the Castlereagh-street
entrance to the arcade, which thus became
the most convenient way through from the
I’itt-street fashion block to the big store.
This so enhanced letting values that the
co. was able to demand rents which sent
profits up to 12.2 p.c. on ord. capital in
1930. Last term, after reserving £16,600 for
taxation (as against £13,000 in 1930), the
net result was £10,068 lower at £19,616. As
usual, the ords. helped themselves to prac-
tically all the disclosed surplus after the
prefs. had been satisfied; the distribution
was 5j p.c. as against 12J p.c. in the pre-
vious term, and nominal reserves amounted
to only £35 when the books closed. They
are labelled nominal, because in 1927 £9l <5
of flotation exes, was welded on to the value
of the freehold item. Allowances for taxa-
tion appear to be on a liberal scale; thus
the £25,256 set aside in the balance-sheet
against Governmental demands may contain
some genuine profit.
Finances are comfortable. The freehold
remained unchanged at £292,806 last year;
debtors and cash (£21.885) were £11,170
heavier. The outside debt (£2392) is small.
It was recently proposed to issue 70,000 8
p.c. 2nd prefs. for the purpose of buying
an adjoining property, hut nothing further
appears to have been done.
The co. has agreed to bear the prefs.’
portion of the retrospective Federal property
tax for 1930 and 1031. For this scrip,
backed by £2 Is. 7d. in net tangibles, the
market pays 21s. Allowing for the statu-
tory cut, the return at that figure is
5.9 p.c.
South Australian Perpetual Forests, Ltd.
For the past five years this co. has been
selling forestry bonds representing acre lots
planted with 680 pi nun insignia seedlings at
I’enola and Mt. Gambier, where it owns
7000-odd acres near the S.A. Government
forestry reserves. The present price is £2 l
per bond. The co. started off in Adelaide in
1926 as Perpetual Pine Forests, Australia,
Ltd., and apparently had some connection
with 8. A. Pine Forests, Ltd., formed in
1925. Up to August, 1930, £141,917 had been
subscribed by bondholders ; that represented
about 5600 bonds. Recent progress figures
are not available, but sales appear to have
fallen away somewhat last year.
With tiie £27 received in respect of caclr
bond the eo. undertakes to maintain the tree:
until maturity (with a maximum of 20 years'
service) and to pay all rates, taxes and ether
outgoings. What is left over belongs to
shareholders. When bondholders decide (o
market the timber, the trustees act on their
instructions. Sections arc to be marketed
as a whole, each bondholder participating
proportionately in the returns. The contract
with bondholders provides, amongst other
(Continued on page 16.)


ijhelku)
CATERPILLAR TRACTION TREAD
J&~JL
k
X
V-
m
mwmm
*r-.
A
*
& J?
?SL
CATERPILLAR TRACTION-tested and
proved on many a battle-scarred
field—now available in principle in the tread
of the new Barnet Glass Truck Tyres. Like
the “Tanks,” they overcome every obstacle.
Heavy loads and steepest gradients merely
emphasise their sterling quality. The deeply
moulded blocks of tread rubber obtain a
positive grip of the road surface at all angles,
and convey without loss the engine’s maxi-
mum power.
Sinewy rubber-impregnated cords, made of
specially twisted treated cotton, form the
foundation of the massive carcass which is
armoured by powerfully buttressed sidewalls.
The buttresses protect the casing against cuts
and abrasion, prevent distortion, and rapidly
dissipate its greatest enemy —generated heat,
thus ensuring long life and greater mileage.
BarnelGlass
ARMOURED
_ WALL .
TRUCTrTYRES
. . . HEAT RESISTING


BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.B. : Send in a claim to the liquidators,
lOfi Pitt-street, Sydney... . N.D.B.: Don’t recommend
it. Seems to us to depend too ;nuch on one man.
He may have a good understudy ; but that’s to be
proved... .E.S.B,: See answer to 757S.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas.— Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coluson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * ’ *
Corrosion is the arch enemy of metal pipe, which
reduces the carrying capacity and eventually destroys
it. Pioneer Wood Pipe is absolutely non-corrosive,
and carries a full bore of water throughout its life.
1 his means long trouble-free service at practically
no upkeep cost, for, in addition to being non-corrosive,
Pioneer Wood Pipe is light, strong and durable,
easily handled and installed at a minimum of cost.
This excellent conduit has proved its remarkable
efficiency on many important installations. Remember,
too, that Pioneer Wood Pipe costs considerably less
than metal pipe. Full particulars gladly furnished
on application to The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove (near Figtree
Bridge), N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt
* =!= *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney J. R. Reid and Sons’
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used ali
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
AMP
A Farmer builds up bis Assets
His A.M.P. Policy serves as Security
MANY men on the land were “caught” this year. Some found
it difficult to borrow enough for fertiliser and seed; others were
unable to get credit for the groceries they needed. It was dif-
ferent with those who were members of the A.M.P. Society and who
had built up an asset in the form of a policy.
Take a certain Riverina farmer who
took out an A.M.P. policy for £lOOO
when he married. The annual pre-
mium was only £2l/17/6, which was
no burden to him. All through his
early struggles he paid this premium
regularly, and thus built up his
securities.
He expanded his undertaking—bought
more land, a tractor, labor-saving
equipment—using his surplus profits
for this purpose.
Then came the slump. He was
negotiating for an adjoining block, he
needed fertilisers and seed, but his
banker frowned on the idea of a
large overdraft. He produced his
A.M.P. policy with its substantial
value.
‘Ah,” said the banker, “that’s dif-
ferent. You can have £500”; and the
farmer’s anxieties promptly vanished.
vV) 111 >
n
mL
as:
t) V
m&
&
When a man builds up his Life Assurance through the
years, he establishes a double-barrelled asset. His A.M.P.
policies ensure his family’s security after his death, and
they give him security while he lives.
WHETHER YOU ARE A FARMER OR A DENTIST
A SCHOOL-TEACHER OR A CARPENTER YOU
CAN HAVE THE PEACE OF MIND THAT COMES
WITH MEMBERSHIP IN THE AMP
Learn how little it costs to build up Assets
To the AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
I should like to know more about A.M.P. policies.
1. —Send me full particulars by post.
2. Send an experienced officer to talk things over.
Name
Address
=
things, tor (1) the transfer of the title-deeds
to trustees, (2) the establishment of a reserve
fund for maintenance, and (3) proper main-
tenance for the stipulated time. The trus-'
tees give a satisfactory report on the co.’s
activities.
Subscribed share capital is £41,350, on
which £3O,O<JG had been paid at October 31.
1 hough apparently no timber has yet been
sold, shareholders have received several divs.
and a one-for-eight bonus issue in May, 1930.
These distributions have come from profits
on laud sales, estimated profits on mainten-
ance, etc. Last term a surplus of £3857 was
claimed (a drop of £O9 compared with the
previous year), and subject to the final div.
for the current term (8 p.c. on the ords., as
in the previous year) reserves figure at
£8137, less £5313 of intangibles.
The “Wild Cat,” as a rule, does not
approve of divs. to shareholders before com-
pletion of bond contracts unless there is a
substantial uncalled capital in the venture.
Profit estimates, even on shareholders’
account, before the 20 years’ maintenance is
completed, are largely a matter of guesswork.
Divs. in this case have not called for very
much, while they have probably encouraged
the raising of fresh share capital. In 1930
auditor .Tames Counsell declared himself satis->
fied with the co.’s ability to carry out its
obligations.
Balance-sheet figures compare as follows :
1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. .. £33,225 £36,600
Liabilities 12,161 11,831
Maintenance reserve .. .. 76,767 66,717
Land 25,130 28,909
Buildings 3,556 3,356
Bondholders’ debts, etc. . . . . 87,003 75,749
Trust funds, cash, etc 7,587 9,964
In addition, there are reserve forestry areas
valued at £7830 held in trust to replace pos-
sible damage to the bondholders’ property.
The year’s slackness is reflected by the drop
of £10,050 in the maintenance fund
(£00,717), and the reduction of £11,254 in
bondholders’ commitments, etc.
Bondholders’ prospects will depend upon
conditions in the timber and w r ood-pulp trades
many years hence. Thus no one can make a
reliable guess at the ultimate results: but
an idea of present conditions in the industry
can be got from a study of the Kauri Co.’s
figures reviewed in these columns.
As soon as copper prices improve suffici-
ently Amalgamated Metal Corporation (a
merger of British Metal Corp. and Henry
Gardner, Ltd.), in which the principal
Broken Hill cos. hold shares, plans to erect
a 200,000-ton copper refinery at Liverpool
to handle blister copper from Northern Rho-
desia. The capacity of the plant exceeds
England’s annual requirements by 50,000
tons. Already along the northern Rhodesian
copper belt 300 million ’-on", of 34 p.c.
copper ore has been proved; by 193 G it is
expected that the output win >
tons of metallic copper per year, and it is esti-
mated that five years later the output will be
500,(KX) tons. The folded ore beds vary in
thickness from 25 to 100 feet, and have been
drilled continuously over a distance of 10
miles. Ore has been proved to a depth of
2250 ft.
❖ * *
“Cuzinjan”: At Moonta (S.A.), the ex-
ploratory work subsidised by the Federal
and State Governments is showing great
promise. So far £BOOO has been spent on
development, employment being given to
(SO men, who work two weeks in three. Three
separate lodes have been located in shallow
ground along the southern extension of
Taylor’s main lode; where tested these lodes
assay 6 p.c. copper over an average width
of 4ft. Altogether 1975 ft. of development
has been carried out, and the ore at grass,
pending the erection of a concentrating plant,
is 2000 tons. Further north, at the Moonta
Extended mine, a lode 34ft. wide carrying
8 p.c. copper and 3dwt. gold is being de-
veloped by a tribute party. So far this lode
has been proved for 4(X)ft. High gold value
was a feature of the ore from the old mine.
* ❖ J*e sj*
Tributors at the A 1 mine, Gaffney’s Creek
(Victoria), are obtaining good yields—one
party recently cleaned up 520 z. from 70 tons
and a second lOOoz. from 400 tons. The A 1
mine is well opened up, having been one of
the most important gold-producers in the
Woods Point district. The reefs are wide
arid occur in cylindrical bulges in a diorite
dyke. The reefs z’gzag across the dyke, and
gold occurs irregularly. The crushing plant,
which is in good order, is equipped with
concentrating t-'Ades for the recovery of
auriferous pyrite
* * *
American Smelting and Refining co., which
has promised to furnish Mt. Isa with techni-
cal advice for the next 10 years, is the largest
smelter and refiner of non-ferrous metals in
the world. During 1930 it marketed 497,800
tons of lead, 440,000 tons copper, 66,040
tons zinc, 85 million ounces silver and
1,760,0000 z. gold. It owns eight lead
smelters in U.S.A. and three in Mexico, and
its technical staff is considered to be the
most highly trained of all U.S.A. groups.
Just recently the company has developed a
process for the recovery of sulphur dioxide.
/n liquid form, from furnace gases, and is
also experimenting in the use of natural gas
from oil wells in copper and lead smelting.
* * * *
Westralia, aided greatly by the exchange
premium, Britain’s abandonment of the gold
standard, and the bounty, in 1931 showed a
growth of nearly IOO.OOOoz. in gold output
over 1939. This year opens with prospects
of a further substantial increase. Some of
the old-established mines, notably Lake
View, are preparing to increase their returns,
crushings from' areas which have not been
heard of for years are helping to swell the
State battery yields, and new finds are being-
made here and there. British and Eastern
Alls, capital, which held back for a time, is
coming forward again ; some has just been
raised for testing mines on a number of
fields, and some to recondition old workings
and plant. The known limits of several big
Westralian mines don’t have to be extended
to find gold. Huge quantities of low-grade
rock are visible in present producing and
non-producing ground.
Large-scale low-grade enterprises, simila>
to Wiiuna and Lake View, must be encour-
aged. Two outstanding features of last
year’s Westralian gold-mining were the in-
retaliation of the flotation process on these
two mines and the sudden advent of Broken
Hill Prop, as an option-seeker and pros-
pective mine-owner.
=i= * * *
“Aqua” : Ivalgoorlie cos. will soon have to
come to some sort of an agreement to share
the cost of keeping out underground water
lrom adjoining mines. At present salt-
water drains from the old Oroya Links in
the north-east portion of the Golden Mile
to the mines in the south-west; no pumping
lias been done by the mines since February,
1931, when the Boulder Perseverance, Lake
View and Star and Associated were jointly
bearing the cost. Since then the Associated
main shaft lias been flooded to the 1700 ft.
level, with the water still rising. Boulder
Perseverance has been successful in damming
the soak, and is still dry.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia co. does not intend sink-
ing its 4000 ft. shaft for a while. Revenue
for 1931 (not including gold premium)
barely met expenditure. But during the year
the co. had been developing new ore reserves,
improving its plant and repaying Mines De-
partment loan. The mine staff reckons
results obtained for 1932 will give an impetus
to the getting on with the big job. The
new shaft would strike the lode at depth of
about 3000 ft., and would be the biggest mine
developmental work ever attempted in the
West.
* * * *
Great Boulder directors do something for
their fees. _ Recently they have been looking
into tributing accounts, and the big profits
a number of tributors are making so aston-
ished the old gentlemen that they are won-
dering what had better be done about it.
Certainly there are big prizes, otherwise
tributors would not be attracted to the game.
It may be decided to give tributing a spell,
but it is a delicate business, and directors
had better step warily. Five years ago the
mine was thought by many to be down and
out. Since then tributors have keep it and
the directors going in pretty good style.
* * * =i=
“Old Warden”: According to the cables,
an American company operating in the Philip-
pines has made one of the greatest gold
discoveries yet struck in that part of the
world. The property, owned by the Big
Wedge Mining Co., is situated near Dagulo,
on Luzon, and is reported to be an exten-
sive reefing proposition going 2000 dollars
value to the ton, which sounds pretty tall,
even for an American prospectus. In the
past the Spaniards took a lot of gold out
of the Philippines, but apparently it was
mostly alluvial obtained from the bush
natives, who still work it on a small scale.
It may be a false alarm, but the world sadly
needs a new rich goldfield, and the Philip-
pines seem a likelier place to find one than
many another.
* * * *
What strict attention to production costs
means in mining is seen in a recent summary
of the activities of the Van Ryn mine, one
of Johannesburg’s pioneer undertakings. In
its life of 37 years the co. has handled over
14 million tons of ore and paid dividends
totalling £3,244,500, or 6624 p.c. on capital.
Yet the ore treated for the year end-
ing June 30 last yielded less' than £1
worth of gold to the ton! Cheap native labor
has helped the Rand greatly, but. every credit
must be given to the companies for their con-
tinual search for improved methods of
recovery.
* * 4-. *
Austral Malay worked only two of its six
properties during December, Asam Ivumbang
and Pungali. The first recovered ore worth
£3651. which cost £lB5O to get, leaving work-
ing profit at £lBOl. Recovery values were
•851 b. and costs 3.8 d. Pungah, working in
Siam, earned £5900; working costs were
£3250, leaving £2650. Costs included main-
tenance and overhaul of one of the dredges
idle under the restriction agreement. In
addition, exchange from Malaya to Siam cost
£750. Recoveries averaged ,841 b. to the cubic
yard, with costs at 4.2 d.
New Misima Gold Mines (on the Papuan
island of that name) reports a satisfactory
condition of things. For October 486 tons of old
sand, 142 tons of old slimes and 597 tons of
crude ore were treated ; the 1225 tons handled
returned gold bullion valued at approxi-
mately £1355, to which was added £493 30s.
for a parcel of slag-ashes and sweepings sent
to Sydney. In November 682 tons old pro-
ducts went through the mill, as well as 500
tons crude ore, and the gold bullion was
worth £1347. A dividend of 6d. per share
was declared. Further progress has been
made with the new concrete vats, and mine
development steadily continues.
-4: * 4s 4:
Victoria’s gold output took an upward
curve last year, nearly twice as much being
won as in 1930. The total yield for the 31
months ending November 30 was 38.837 fine
ounces, worth £175,646, an increase of
17,6370 z. over the 1930 period. The return
for December should bring the total to
42,5000 z. fine.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I took out an ordinary insurance policy
three years ago with which I am now dis-
satisfied. The agent tells me that I cannot
withdraw. What is the position? —77ll.
Unless the policy is like no other policy
known to the “Wild .Cat,” the holder can
withdraw by the simple process of neglect-
ing to pay any further premiums. But if
three annual premiums have been paid there
ought to be some .surrender value; and this
should be forthcoming in the shape of a
paid-up policy. First, however, the holder
ought to be quite satisfied that he has made
a mistake. To allow the lapse of a policy
which is at all satisfactory is a great waste.
(1) Is the Australian Graziers’ Meat Co.
establishing killing centres in N.S.W. country
districts? (2) Will its agreement with the
Meat Board expedite development? (3)
What Parliamentary protection is to be
granted to the co.? (4) Arc the shares likely
to be a x profitable investment? —7s7B.
(3) -None, apparently, have been estab-
lished so far. The paid-up capital, and more,
has been swallowed in exes, of formation, etc.,
though 16s. on each of the 87,405 £1 shares
issued still remains uncalled. (2) At the
co. s last meeting it was said not to be
m the interests of the co. to disclose the
nature of its correspondence, etc., with the
Meat Board. An offer is alleged to have
been made by a London co. to establish a
chain of butchers’ shops, costing £1,500,000,
provided the A.G.M. Co. grants it a sole
London agency. But unless the A.G.M.
shows some sign of real activity this state-
ment should not be taken seriously. (3)
Most indefinite. (4) Very doubtful. Cos.
depending on Parliamentary favors are rely-
ing on a rotten stick.
/ had 25 shares in the Mercantile Bank,
which never got to business. They were
£0 shares; J paid £l. I am now required by
the liquidator to pay the balance of £4.
What can I do? 1 wouldn’t squeal but that
I feel J never had a run for my money.
—7786.
The prefs. put up money at a premium ;
and the Court held that on the terms of the
issue they were entitled to the full return
of capital but not of premium. Certain
payments were made which were at least
doubtful; if this money or any of it should
be recovered the ordinaries will be spared
something. But there is no question that in
law they are liable for the full balance of
the £5 unpaid.


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Low-paid Pastoral Jobs
Dear B., —Shearing, dam-sinking, horse-
breaking, fencing, ringbarking, etc., have
been carried out under the contract system
for years past, and even mustering and
lamb-marking have been done by contract.
Outside shearing, no strikes or troubles have
eventuated, and both parties have apparently
been satisfied with the procedure. A diversity
of opinion as to prices lias arisen at times,
but a happy medium has eventually been
agreed upon. The system should be ex-
tended.
Taking up the cudgels on behalf of the
pastoral workers I maintain that if any
industry should show appreciation of its
employees, it is this one; for never have these
workers gone on strike or objected as a body
to working overtime. Pastoral workers work
any old hours, and it is only in isolated cases
that they claim days off in lieu of payment
for overtime worked, and most of them take
a great deal of interest in the stock.
If all pastoral work that could be done
that way was carried out under the contract
method, and prices arranged between em-
ployer and employee, without Arbitration
Courts, it would be found that satisfactory
conditions would establish themselves. At
present the exploiting of the nomadic pastoral
workers (and it is being done every day in
the week) is having a boomerang effect on
the employers, for the unwritten law
amongst the workers comes into operation —
“£1 a week wages, £1 a week’s work.” As
a result, stock, fences, etc., suffer in that
only half-hearted attention is paid to the
job.' Eradicate all awards where practicable
in the industry, I urge, and institute the
contract system, and in both prosperous and
lean times an equitable arrangement will be
reached. Let the existing state remain,
with the prospects of arbitration being
revived by a different Government, and
there wall always be more or less enmity
between the two mobs. Let pastoralists
who have work to be done place more con-
fidence in the system, in preference to offer-
ing, as at present in so many instances, a
weekly wage so low that it precludes fair-
minded workers from accepting. It’s an un-
fortunate state of things that keeps so many
workers on the track, and it is sadly in need
of thoughtful revision.—Yours, Walkabout,
Unpopularity of Apprentices
Dear Bulletin, —Before the depression
many masters had a sickening of apprentice-
ship regulations—l speak of N.S.W. —and
in the end some employing a hundred or
so journeymen had only one or two boys.
It is held in some quarters that even
murder is not sufficient reason to grant
cancellation of indentures. The use of filthy
language, gross disobedience, irregular
attendance, chronic dirtiness, consistent
loafing and personal abuse of the master
are certainly not considered grounds.
Hence there are many masters who will
not for any consideration enter into inden-
tures, for once your signature is on .the
document the apprentice has you by the
wool. It is my experience that apprentices
know this; if they don’t, union secretaries
see that they don’t remain in ignorance
for long. Thus an apprentice may be the
greatest nuisance in your life for five
years and nothing can be done. Certainly
there is access to industrial tribunals, but the
less said about them the better.
It is generally recognised that our lads
must be trained to skill in their chosen
occupations, but the future will find that
employers wall not accept the tremendous
liability of apprenticeships until there
is relief from these lads who, knowing their
occupations and wages are secure for the
period of the indentures, become the
useless and expensive nuisances above
described. Boys must be protected from
unfair masters, but masters should equally
be protected from imposition and penalisation.
—Yours, Bemacauuit.
The Craze for Silk
Dear Bulletin, —I suppose I shall get
eaten alive, but I am afraid our continued
inability to balance the domestic budget is
due to our womenfolk and silk. Having been
an accountant before I became a tram-con-
ductor, and being interested in union activi-
ties, I have become a sort of father confessor
to many men, who complain about tlieir
inability to make ends meet. A quiet talk
on expenditure invariably brings in the
lottery ticket, the “few bob” on the ponies
and the couple of drinks on pay day ; but
the real hobgoblin is silk. Not the humble
fuji at Is. lid., but the exclusive silk up to
30s. The woman says she is entitled to at
least one good dress, and the daughter is
also entitled, etc. No amount of argument
can change this attitude ; if they cannot pay
cash, there is always a cash-order available.
If the Government will bung another 200
per cent, duty on “exclusive” silks they will
be doing the average toiler a good turn by
putting exclusives beyond the average toiler’s
purse. A proportionate lowering of duty on
the cheaper silks would be a quid pro quo. If
individual budgets are balanced it will be
a big step towards national stability.—Yours,
Keg.
Mortgages
Dear Bulletin, —Recently an Amending
Moratorium Act was passed in N. S. Wales
which provided that no action or proceeding
shall- be commenced for breach of any cov-
enant agreement or condition in a mortgage
of real property. I know of cases where
men of substantial means are dishonestly
taking advantage of this provision, and re-
fusing to pay interest even to women who,
two or three years ago, drew out of the
savings bank the savings of a lifetime, eager
to earn a little higher interest than the
bank was then paying. In order to meet
cases of this nature, I have asked the Gov-
ernment to make a small amendment in the
law by which, on proof by a mortgagee to
the satisfaction of a Court that the mort-
gagor is abb- to pay the interest without
hardship to himself or his dependants, leave
•shall be given to commence proceedings for
recovery of the interest due. Interest has
been reduced all round by 224? per cent. I
do not complain of that. But should the
Government stand idly by, and permit
wealthy dishonest people, within the law, to
wrong those who bona fide invested their
hard-earned savings on mortgage of real pro-
perty, and depended principally for their
means of subsistence on the modest pay-
ments justly due to them from time to
time? Even Mr. Lang might be expected to
make an exception to his recently announced
doctrine that the sanctity of contract is an
iniquitous thing ! — Yours, Daniel Levy.
The State’s Responsibility
Dear B., —Men must eat; but at current
purchasing power, the ss. per week dole
which the Queensland Government grants
its travelling unemployed is quite inadequate.
It is an atrocity that, in a country as fruit-
ful as this, men should be forced to beg—
and beg he must who is on the track in
Queensland. Remember, too, the man on the
track to-day is not a tramp or a beggar by
nature; and there is nothing so demoralis-
iiig to a decent individual as to have to
ask for food. When in employment
we contributed to the maintenance of
the country; and if the country cannot give
us work, then surely we are entitled to an
existence without begging. It may be a
principle of .the Church to advocate charity;
but it is nothing short of neglect of duty
for a Government, in a country like Aus-
tralia, to force its supporters to seek charity.
—Yours, Hugh G.
Westralian Secession
Dear B., —Quite a number of points in
the case for Westralian secession are not
calculated to improve by keeping. One on
which great and continuous stress is laid
is the very small representation (the shame-
ful under-representation, in fact) of the
Western State in the Federal Parliament.
As a matter of figures it is one of the three
States which have more members than their
population justifies. There are 112 legis-
lators in the two Federal Houses, leaving
out the non-voting gentleman (of lady) from
the N. Territory. This represents one
member for 58,040 inhabitants as a matter
of theory, but in practice this unavoidable
anomaly pervades the landscape:—
Should Too
Have, Has. Many Members.
Tasmania .. 4 11 7
Westralia .. 7 11 4
South Australia .. 10 13 3
Insufficient
Members.
Queensland .. 19 16 3
Victoria.. .. 30 27 3
N. S. Wales .. 42 34 S
112 112
The first column is as accurate as it can
be without cutting odd
members into halves and
quarters, which would be
cruelty to animals.
Westralia is alleged to
be charged, under the
Federal system, with lots
of things with which it
shouldn’t be charged.
This is proved by inquiry.
Five more inquiries would
prove that the five other
States are similarly
oppressed and swindled.
A sixth' investigation
would demonstrate that
the entire six, otherwise
the Commonwealth, are
paying immense amounts,
in cash or kind, which
should be dragged from
the other fellow if some
other fellow could only
be found. The problem
for all secessionists is to
cut off inquiry at the
right moment and not let
investigation reveal too
much. —Y ours, e t c.,
Titus Salt.
Economists and Bankers
Dear B., —During the
past 12 months it has
become almost the prac-
tice for professors of
economy in Australia to
retire from their chairs,
pro tern., to take jobs
or fees from private in-
stitutions —m os 11 y, of
course, banks. The r e
would be less to say
against this practice if
the professors merely
advised; but there is the
very great danger that
they are employed, or will
be employed, to bolster up
some policy or other
which would best suit
the financial interests of
their employers. These
gentlemen, seeing that
their professorial status
gives them the ear and
more or less the confi-
dence of the public,
should hold much the
same position as judges,
who would never dream
of coming down off the
bench to act even as
adviser let alone as advo-
cate for a client.
The position is all the
more serious because cer-
tain newspapers will
throw their columns open
to a professor, whether
writing under a nom de
plume or otherwise, and
permit him to put for-
ward views which would
not be given publicity if
submitted by anybody
else. —Yours, An Ex-
Banker.
The Responsibility of
Petrol
Dear Bulletin, —We
have a good land and
were getting along nicely,
if a little slowly, when
somebody invented the
internal combustion engine. That and the
development of the liquid-fuel business sent
the world speed-mad—over almost every-
thing. The -change hit Australia particu-
larly hard because she is not an oil-producer
and had and still has to import not only all
the oil but all the machinery to satisfy the
craze for speed, so far as travel is concerned.
This has done more to encourage extrava-
gance and waste than anything else; and
the best thing we can do is to go back on our
tracks and slowly restore coal and the horse
to the places of which they have been dis-
possessed. I doubt whether we shall ever be
able to get firmly on our feet otherwise. —
Yours, O. R. Mason.
“Christ on the Road”
Dear B., —As the Catholic priest referred
to in “Gad's” little homily (B. 23/12/’3l),
may I say that I am surprised at his inter-
preting anything in my previous letter as
contrary to any Catholic principle? Indeed,
appeals' to us clergy would be considerably
fewer if the Catholic teaching that charity
is an individual obligation were more recog-
nised and practised. To attribute, how-
ever, to Charitable organisations, such as
the St. V. de P. Society, the manufacture
of duplicity is contrary to my experience
and not quite fair to their self-sacrificing
members.
The principles of Christian conduct should,
moreover, be followed by the receiver as
well as the giver, and “Gad”' surely will not
deny me the luxury of speculating on the
mental processes of those men who rigorously
boycott clergy, religion and charity in their
good days, and are offended when a hard-
pushed clergyman rightly or wrongly de-
clines to be bitten. It is the humbugs who
make “mass-production charity” inevitable
and not lack of goodwill on our part.
“Gad’s” slab of autobiography and good
deeds, though interesting as a personal ex-
planation, is hardly relevant, and his repeated
and rather exclusive assumption of the
“divine impulse” of charity altogether
gratuitous.—Yours etc., —D. A. G.
The Work to Do
Dear B., —The Bruce-Page Government
made an appalling wreck of the foreign loan
business, and Scullin’s hope of getting a
valedictory trifle to ease his fall was shat-
tered during his visit to England by the
insurrectionary prancings of his worst fol-
lowers, who painted themselves Red and
began wild talk of repudiation. The Sculli-
dore Ministry was faced with the problem of
putting the balance of trade right by cutting
down imports wholesale, even if it sacrificed
paper customs revenue by doing so. At last
it reached a point when, for a month or
two, exports just about paid for imports and
oversea interest bills, and the Australian, ni
characteristic fashion, said: “At last we
have done it !” As a matter of tact i e
had only just begun to do it. Years ot
acute insanity are not put right by a lucid
interval of a few minutes.
A lot. of undesirable persons, though per-
haps not quite so undesirable as ex-
Trea,surer Theodore, have rallied round
Prime Minister Lyons. lie can’t prevent
them rallying. They are the kind who hold
that every manufactured product is better
and cheaper if imported, and hope for a
return of the good old days when Aus-
tralian Governments borrowed as much as
£50,000,000 in a year to pay for superfluous
imports and to defray oversea interest bills.
They will even swear in their excitement
that the agricultural and pastoral and min-
ing industries are under a cloud, not so much
because of low prices and high taxes (one
consequence of big debts and high interest
bills) as because there are insufficient
facilities for getting imported tools and
appliances.
The Country party believes that big
imports are a sign of prosperity, and if the
Lyons Government can avoid earning the
support of this party, except as regards its
policy of the subdivision of overgrown
States, it should have a long and useful
career. But it will be all the better if it
has no more stupendous triumphs like that
of 1931. That included too many dubious
recruits. —Yours, J. E.
Can Democracy Be Saved?
Bear B., —Yes, but the people will have
to be regenerated first. The seed of ethical
purity in politics, which the A.F.A. broad-
casted in its first days, failed because it fell
on the stony ground of cynical materialism
and petty jealousy. Long connection with the
philosophy that all movements must be used
as a means of personal gain and advance-
ment found hundreds of people ready to
.spring into the new breaker, trusting that
it would take them on their own desired
way. Even worse than the big log-rolling
at headquarters was the little log-rolling; on
the suburban committees. Paltry manipu-
lations and backslidings by paltry aspirants
for paltry powers and their paltry returns
choked the new baby before it had really
begun to breathe. Those who had failed to
use other movements hoped to use this new
one, and parasites of all colors and breeds
sought to gain a new life which they had
not been able to get elsewhere.
Therefore, I say, “Save the people first!”
Teach them that democracy is a national
philosophy, not a personal expedient. And
we’ll have to get down to the infant classes
to do the job properly—infancy in this
case being a matter of ethics and intel-
ligence, not of age—Yours, G. City.
“SWAT THAT FLY!”


Missing Friends. ■
MARTHA HOIK IIITON --Information is
sought as to the whereabouts of Martha
Houghton, believed to have resided in
bourne some few years ago. She will hei
something to her advantage by communion
in" with BARKER & .TONES, Solicitors,
31) Hunter Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Florodora”
Criterion “The House that Jack Built’’ Pantomime
State Movies and Talkies
MEI.BOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Sinbad the Sailor” Pantomime
Kino’s “As Husbands Go”
State ; Movies and Talkies
♦
The War of the Pantomimes
Melbourne , December 27.
Pantomime lias broken out on both banks
of the Yarra. The thunder of the puns can
be distinctly heard at Heidelberg, eight miles
away. The sound of exploding chestnuts
has caused nume-
rous cases of deaf-
n e s s amongst
adult citizens
hurrying horn e
across Prince’s
Bridge. Several
spectators in
neutral territory
have been injured
by flying referen-
ces to undercloth-
ing, but casualites
from this cause
have been
fewer than for
many years
past. Reports
from a reliable
source state
that the fight-
ing is concen-
trated at five
points the
Royal, the
Bijou, the
Tivoli, the
Playhouse and
the State. The
“General Wenman be-
longed to the old school
of cavalry officers.”
General Staffs of the four first-named
armiis. however, declare that the force at the
State is not a regular army but a guerrilla
band.
The fighting continues to rage. Gas is in
general use. It is not known definitely which
of the combatants initiated this loathsome
form of warfare, which has been banned by
every civilised State. Some say it was
started by General George Wallace at the
Bijou, but a competent authority states that
General Wallace only adopted the practice
after Field-Marshal James Gerard broke
silence, at the Tivoli on the 26th. On the
other hand, it is claimed that heavy stocks
of gas containers were seen being smuggled
in at the rear of the Playhouse by Col.
Alf. J. Broadway long before hostilities
were declared.
All parties are, however, unanimous
that by starting, without provocation, to
gas their audiences a few years ago, the
general staffs of the silent picture theatres
“Regard it as indispensable for the younger
generation.”
are primarily to blame. It has been pro-
posed that the League of Nations should
intervene to at least enforce silence, if not
adequate clothing, on the combatants.
December 28.
The battle is rising in intensity. Earlier
forms of gas, which were relatively inno-
cuous, and in fact were claimed to be bene-
ficial. since they sent their victims into a
deep slumber, have been abandoned by some
of the belligerents in favor of various forms
of poison gas. The churches view the latest
development with horror. They are said to
have appealed to the various parties to aban-
don the use of the joke about the envelope iu
which the ballet-girls’ costumes were sent
on from the last town and substitute the
one about the woman who went into a shop
and bought 12 eggs and ten were good, too
bad; or the one about the little dog that
got run over by a motor-car and had its
nose, cut off and a man said how did it
smell and a bystander said it smelt orful;
or, if they must have something sexy, the
one about the man who called his sweetheart
key because she was the girl lie a-door-ed. All
the generals, however, look on these sugges-
tions with disfavor. They declare that they
did not start the frightfulness but if their
opponents want frightfulness they can have
it.
Moscow, December 29.
Official. Soviet Government to-day issued
categorical denial of rumors that jokes about
seasick ness
being used by
at least three
of belligerents
in Melbourne
ope r atio ns
were supplied
by propaganda
department in
order foment
illwill amongst
capital istic
audiences stop
also stigma-
tise as ridicu-
lous assertion
Soviet smug-
gling fairy
queens of un-
certain age
“Claimed in some cases to
be actually beneficial”
and of no uncertain vocal accomplish-
ments into area of hostilities with view
further exacerbating already situ-
ation stop if Demon Killjoy at Bijou is Lang
in disguise they know nothing of it stop
they suggest sinister hand Hollywood stop
Melbourne, December 29.
According to a reliable report General
Wallace attaches no significance to the
opinion of a high theatrical authority that
General Wenman, of the Royal, has under
his command a very funny show. General
Wallace states that nothing is more likely
than that one of his smaller ammunition
trains has fallen into the hands of the. enemy.
When this statement was shown to Field-
Marshal Gerard at the Tivoli he smiled
slightly and said that General Wenman was
out of his element in pantomimic warfare.
He belonged to the old school of cavalry
officers who can’t get out of the habit of
wearing their spurs in the trenches. He
should have stuck to grand opera. Obviously
What had happened was that one of General
Wen man’s spies had pinched the book of
his (F. M. Gerard’s) next revuesical comedy.
December 30.
Dispatch to the Chamber of Manufac-
tures, Sydney. New note that has come
into sounds of fighting here said to be due
dames all. parties splitting pants to musical
honors: Inquiring.
December 31.
Further dispatch to Ch. of Mftres, Sydney.
Previous report re pants confirmed to-day.
Conscientious objector, who protested against
Gen. Gerard tearing trousers at Tivoli on
grounds that if, as alleged, Gen. Gerard
was an all-Australian comedian, then the
performance was a reflection on the Aus-
tralian textile trade, was shot this morning.
December 31.
Despite the intense heat of yesterday
the.fighting continued to rage on all fronts.
Dames,' heavily armored in skirt and bustles,
flung themselves into the fray with their
pants splitting continuously behind them.
Ballet-girls, tearing their clothes off for
greater freedom of movement, worked fever-
ishly to maintain the offensive. A comedian
in one sector yesterday plunged amongst the
audience and plucked the. fruit off a woman’s
hat and ate it.
None of the
combatants has
yet moved up
into the line
the turn in
which six
accomplices
rush up on to
the stage when
the manager
comes out and
says : “Would
the gentleman
who is in the
house with
another man’s
wife like to
leave* by the
stage door, as
the husband is
waiting in the
foyer?” but it
is expected at
any moment.
Spies appear
“A fragment of a joke
penetrated the brain of the
editor of the ‘Age.’”
to be everywhere at work. No . sooner does
a new form of attack develop on one front
than the same gag makes its appearance
ait all the ethers. The extraordinary effici-
ency of the espionage corps was demon-
strated yesterday when one of the
belligerents sprang a surprise on its
opponents by staging an Oriental scena of
unimaginable beauty, Within 24 hours every
army had been equipped with an almost
exactly similar weapon.
January 1.
The blackest New Year this city is ever
likely to see opened to-day. All the dramatic
critics have been rendered blind, inarticu-
late and incapable of saying “Constitution-
al.” A fragment of a* joke about a mother-
in-law penetrated the brain of the editor of
the “Age” two days ago and affected his
expression, it is feared permanently. Murdfrs
of the King's English are so frequent that
they are no longer mentioned in the papers.
There is not the slightest sign of a slack-
ening or cessation of hostilities anywhere.
Every general As claiming uninterrupted
“With their pants splitting continuously
behind them.”
success all along the line. The most opti-
mistic of them are prophesying Iho end of
the war next December.
Geneva, January 2.
With very grave concern and the closest
possible interest the League of Nations
to-day was following the outcome of the
fighting in Melbourne. It is recognised that
if a satisfactory solution is not reached soon
the prestige of the League itself will be at
stake. Worse still, it is feared that much
further delay may result in intervention by
Hollywood, with serious consequences to the
peace of the entire civilised world. An eminent
authority has pointed out that under Article
b 145 of the League covenant, sanctions may
be applied to an offending State, such as
cutting off its supply of puns, custard pies
and references to grandma’s lingerie. An
alternative would he the forcible evacuation
from the disturbed area of the entire
population between the ages of 14 and 90.
This, it is claimed, would cause hostilities
to cease automatically. Opposition is
expected, however, from parties in Melbourne
who regard the spirit of pantomime as
indispensable for the younger generation.
Australian Talkies and the Censor
Before the Australian talkie can hope to
get a foothold the problem of the censor-
ship will have to be tackled. Frank Thrmg
struck trouble at the outset when a Customs
clerk in Melbourne forbade children to see a
comedy because the actors played with inten-
sity and an eerie wind whistled through it,
though the ban was removed as a result
of a vigorous protest. The censors have
now consented to pre-read, scenarios,, though
without prejudice to future; action. This is
a useful concession, since previously pro-
ducers had no guarantee that if they spent
£lO,OOO on a film like “Bobbery Under
Arms” it would not be banned subse-
quently because it dealt with scenes of
violence. Nevertheless, everybody with the
slightest knowledge of the drama, i-s aware
that the written word is no indication of
what significance an actor can give ; to a
situation by means of the spoken word.
The silliest regulation is that which allows
the censor to interdict the showing of a pic-
ture to children. It ought to be amended so
that the censor's powers in that respect should
be limited to recommending parents and
guardians to prevent children attending. If
a parent is incapable of judging whether a
picture is good for his offspring he is unfit
to have any moral control over them, yet
he is allowed to direct their reading, instruct
them in the mystery of sex and train-them
to be Nationalists, Laborites or Communists.
The practical application of the child-ban
actually promotes all the evils, real or
alleged,' from which the censors are • so
anxious to protect the -children, as anybody
can see in. a tour of an industrial suburb
on a Friday or Saturday evening. Being
determined not to be deprived of their even-
ing’s amusement and being unable to take
their children with them, parents leave them
behind, and tell them to play in the streets,
in case the house should hatch fire or be
broken into. In any case, the film censor-
ship, in spite of having multiplied rulcfs to
cover every contingency, has completely
failed in its objective. The flicks are sillier,
more obsessed with the theme of sex, more
concerned with the exploitation of the semi-
clothed female, and less related to life than
before the censors began meddling with them.
The censors objected to direct statement, so
the producers resorted to the more effective
method of suggestion. The real reason why
so much more fussy interference is tolerated
over the movies than over any other , art
form' is' because of their novelty. They are
in the position ! of the first motor-cars, which
had to have a man with a red flag preceding
them.
Scott Alexander’s New Sydney Rep. Soc..
which has the courage of nine bulldog-ants
and tackles anything from Shakspeare to
Grand Guignol stuff, further demonstrated
its versatility at St. James’s Hall on Satur-
day by staging “Married,” by Alexandre
Dumas, a light comedy- of the period of Louis
XV., well peppered with "Gallic wit. It deals
with the amorous affairs'of the young Comte
de Candale, who wedded his cousin, the mar-
riage having been arranged by their rich
uncle, a straight-laced retired general. At
the time of the wedding the Comte is trailing
after a thrice-divorced lady, and the
Comtesse pines for her former sweetheart,
the Chevalier de Vale os, now the Comte’s
best friend and a frequent visitor to the De
Candale mansion. The Comte becomes aware
of the affection that existed between his wife
and his friend and of the Chevalier’s efforts
to re-kindle the flame, but is prepared to
overlook the matter, provided he is left, to
his own devices. Tlie Comtesse, however,
grows tired of the Chevalier and jealous of
her husband. Thereafter the play runs along
a twisted path, whereon the married couple
are united and separated and united, again
and the Chevalier finds himself alternately
welcomed and repelled by the Comtesse. The
arrival of the uncle brings everything to a
head. Uncle is shocked at the result of his
match-making, and repenting, seeks to have
the marriage annulled. The young couple
refuse, much to his delight. The piece went
fairly well. Kenneth Fowles worked hard to
exhibit the Comte as a care-free person but
relapsed into stolidity. Barbara Smith was
charming as the Comtesse, Frank Davis gave
a picture of the Chevalier that was good in
spots, and Crofton Hallam was appropriately
fiery as the avuncular general. William Rees
and Mrs. M. Burt, as a pair of servants,
helped considerably.
Having wound up a short panto, season
at Sydney’s Grand Opera House, George
Marlow has found other and darker work
to do. The current programme-starts with
a revue, which is just what, anyone would
expect, but after the comparatively brief
spasm of jollity the curtain rolls up on “The
Barton Mystery,” a crime-drama of. the
deepest dye. Of its sort it is a good play.
Coincidences are not inordinately strained
and quite a number of the characters -arc-,
at no time under suspicion.- The mystery-
is unravelled in the last act by a “psychic
investigator,” nine-tenths a fraud but
genuinely possessing an unusual power. A
dream, depicted in the course of the. play,
serves to deepen the mystery, which with-
out the dream mightn’t have been much
shakes of a mystery. There are no glaring-
misfits in the east, and Leonard Stephens
and Ronald Riley, who carry most of the
burden of making improbabilities seem pro-
bable, give commendable characterisations.
Sylvia Post Mason, who was in the panto-
mime co., has the principal feminine part
and hoes a hard row with a lot of resource
and ability.
* * *
Melbourne shows are as last week'. At
the Playhouse an unpretentious Red Riding
Hood is escaping from the wolf twice daily.
At the Tiv. Jim Gerald is providing a tip-
top vaudeville bill, which, in deference to
the prevailing fashion, is called a panto.
Tin* real thing is available ip “Sipbad” at
the Royal, opposite. Etlpd Mormon and a
competent co. are providing bright comedy
in “As Husbands Go” at the King’s, and
Jennie Benson continues to Tie Queen and
Gus Bluett court jester to “The League of
Happiness” at the Palace. The new Rolls
piece has been tightened up and cut down
and isn’t, any the worse for being shorter.
The best-attended show, however, continues
to be that great spectacular drama “Surf.
Sea. Sand and Sun.” The stage for this
magnificent production extends from the
South Australian border to a few miles
north of Mallacoota. Having inspected as
much of this year’s performance as he could
he reasonably expected to encompass, this
Showman is in a position to state that it
excels all previous productions for many
years past, largely owing to a satisfactory
arrangement having been come to between
the Producer and the Government Meteorolo-
gist. Sunburn and Sandfly, the villains of
the piece, once more give a vigorous account
of themselves. The ballets appear to he
both more colorful and more scantily clad
than last year. In a remote corner of the
stage, there was a nude male chorus, which
met with the unanimous disapproval of the
dramatic critics of the local council. There
seems to be no pleasing them.
Poverty Point
That very accomplished actress Mrs.
Robert Brough, who left life’s stage a few
days ago, made her first acquaintance with
Australia very shortly after she commenced
her professional career in London. She
and her husband, just newly wed, came to
Melbourne in 1885 to take part in a J. C.
Williamson production of “lolanthe,” in
which Brough was the Chancellor and his
wife, billed under her maiden name as
Florence Trevelyan, the Fairy Queen. Her
pleasant contralto voice and gracious person-
ality made her a favorite at once. The
couple commenced to make Australian stage
history in real earnest in 1887, when Brough
and the younger Dion Boucicault formed a
partnership, leased the Sydney Cri. and the
Melb. Bijou, and proceeded to give the public
a host of good plays in which Mrs. Brough
took important roles—some of those best
remembered are her Beatrice in “Much Ado
About Nothing, ” her Sophia in Robert
Buchanan’s play of that name, her Lady
Teazle in “The School for Scandal,” and.
pre-eminently, her Paula in “The Second
Mrs. Tanqueray.” Sin 1 had a talent for both
comedy and tragedy, and her portrayals of
deep emotion were always impressive.
Brough died in 1900 and his widow three
years later married Cyril Bell, the couple
thenceforth taking the name of Brough-Bell.
Mrs. Brough’s last stage appearance in Aus-
tralia was in “Aren’t We All?” at Sydney
Cri., late in the twentieth century. In re-
tirement she made her home at Cronulla,
near Sydney, whore she died.
“Cauboy”: Before departing to conduct
an orchestra in Honolulu, Fritz Hart gave
a pat on the back to the project of forming
a national orchestra in connection with
broadcasting. He said that 70 musicians
would be a bare minimum, that they would
have to rehearse three hours daily and should
be given six weeks’ holiday annually. Then
we might have an orchestra comparable
with, or better than, Verbrugghen’s. Noth-
ing short of Government action will over-
come the rivalries which have prevented the
formation of a first-class orchestra hitherto.
In Melbourne there are four of them leading
a precarious existence. None of them is
prepared to give up its chances of being
the orchestra, so the quantity of music has
been too great and the quality too little.
“Craiser” : I nominate the . constant play-
goer as the most uncritical person on earth.
He will accept a scene in which the last
word in realism is combined with details
that shriek their absurdity. In “Oh, Lady !
Lady!” at Melb. Royal, the curtain rose on
the second act with the moon, midway in the
backcloth, 'shining on the roofgarden of a
block of flats. The act lasts approximately
40 minutes and the moon, at the bidding of
the Joshuas behind the scenes, stays reso-
lutely where it was put.
“E.M.T.” : The programme at Sydney Ilay-
market, featuring a Ufa film with Cinesound
and other improvements, presented Julian Hux-
ley as "a famous Australian scientist.” Well,
his Huxley grandmother was a Sydney girl,
and his Arnold grandparents spent a year or
two in Tasmania, where his aunt, Mrs. Hum-
phry Ward, was born. But that’s the full
extent of his Australianism. One wonders if
the Brazilian public is told that he is a South
American. He put in some time on that
continent doing research.
“O. Kay”: Dale Collins’s “Rich and
Strange” is being made into a talkie by an
Elstree unit which has been shooting scenes
in the China Seas, where much of the story
is set. The part of Gordon is in the hands ot
Percy Marmont, who came to Australia to
play opposite Maud Fane in “The Monk and
the Woman.” Collins heads the list of Austra-
lian authors whose novels have been adapted
for the pictures. “The Sentimentalist” ami
“Ordeal” were taken up in Hollywood ; the
movie versions were “Sal of Singapore” and
“The Ship from Shanghai” respectively.
“Cauboy”: The 70fli anniversary of
Paderewski’s birth recalls the wonderful
veteran’s extraordinary outbursts of irritation
when Australian .critics raved about his
“genius and inspiration.” The artist in lnm
was exasperated beyond measure;at the con-
ventional epithets bestowed on a man whose
life was a long struggle with technical diffi-
culties. To overcome one of these, when lie
was a student at. Warsaw COnservatomim,
he shut himself in a room without food tor
two days, time and plabe being forgotten.
When the door was eventually forced he
was found ,in a dead faint, the skin on his
fingers was worn through and there was
blood all over the keyboard of the piano.
“L. do R.”': The liick of the game. “Wen-
nose Nights” was shown in' one Melbourne
house for a fortnight and failed to a.ttracr
notice. It was revived at another theatre
and proceeded to break records, as it has
done in Sydney.
“Craiser”: Athol Tier, the Firm s Sin-
badomime at Melb. Royal, had an unusual
courtesy paid him by a Parisian critic when
he appeared at the Theatre de Dix Ileures.
Laudatory remarks in French were followed
by, a translation irit.o English. ■ • s


m
HOSIEKY
• •
11
1
1111
I
igS?
J
m
m
m
mm
I
mi
H
' * •
#■
Mflft
*?
Eg
111
■
: . ■. . . ' .. ' ■ :
ass
if
m
»■
mi
jfl
m
l
m »§8
in
■ ,<•<
THE NEW PARISIAN VOCUE
. . . GENUINE GRENADINE
IS INTERPRETED IN THIS BEAUTIFUL PRESTIGE CREATION.
. . ITS DULLNESS PLEASES THE FASTIDIOUS .. ITS SHEERNESS
IS A FASCINATION AND DELIGHT TO THE SOPHISTICATED


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STIIEET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1:250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remittid. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL . 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
~ rAmjlr ,„ CEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
KA££F HUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHVRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
„ , London Office—lB Birch;n Lane. Lombard Street, E.C.3.
tfldorop 8 ™S° Ut Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
tederal lerritorj. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts o t
the world.
classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
WHAT WILL 1932
BE LIKE?
The January “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
discusses this question; and every
investor, great and little, will be
interested in the data brought
together and the conclusions
reached.
“The Monthly” puts the work
of a staff of accountants and
investment specialists at your
disposal.
No investor can afford to be
without it.
“7HE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY’’
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
ABORIGINALITIES
“E.S.” : There is or used to be a pub in
the far west of N. S. Wales which saw
exciting times when young bloods from
the stations came in and the one policeman
was in some other part of his vast dis-
trict. On one occasion the bloods rode their
ANOTIIER BANK SCANDAL.
OVERDRAFF (examining his passbook and finding he is in credit): “I’ll write ’em a
red-hot letter! D’you know, Melia, the blighters owe me a tenner!”
horses into the bar, all lining up as at a
starting barrier, and insisted on the land-
lord serving each moke with a bottle of
lemonade. Then they rode into the bil-
liard-room, driving the players out with
sheep-hunting yells. They carried . stools
and cases'out, and held up the traffic while
they had hurdle races in the street. On
another occasion they rolled out a cask of
beer, stove in the. head, and led their mounts,
to it. Subsequently seven drunken riders
risked their necks hurdling on seven
drunken horses, Bung looking on helplessly.
To ■qirarrcLwith free spenders-was bad busi-
ness ; the lunatics always paid their bills
without argument. Bung at last evolved
a fixed tariff: 2s. a drink for horses at the
bar, 10s. each for mustering indoors and
£2 from the lot for cleaning the premises
after the rumpus. He let his fancy play a
bit ivlien it came to assessing damages to the
furniture. The revellers were known as
the ’ Green' Hides, 'ail'd some t>f their doings
dimmed the exploits of the Ragged Thirteen.
:!: * *
“Spare .Walton”.: America is claiming the
fisjp-taming championship of the world, but
appears to have as little right to it as it
has to' many others. One Voght, of Minne-
sota, has trained the fish in a lake on his
property to swim for the shore when 1m
rings a bell, and there; eat. out of his hand.
The- 'tiling-'•has’ been "done before, A couple
of years or so ago The Bulletin fold of a
young .lady in the South Island of Maori-
laiuLwho regularly fed the eels in a stream
near her abode, these coming to her when
she. called them from the bank. A photo-
;graph*, which appeared later in the Sydney
press,' showed one of the eels on the bank,
quite out of the water, and eating from her
hand; Mr. Voght’.s fish do not seem to
have risen to these heights of intelligence,
for there is no record of tlieir leaving the
water voluntarily—and thereby hangs a sor-
rowful tale. Neighbors made a note of the
trainer’s methods, and, in his absence, went
down to the lake equipped' with bells. As
the confiding fish swam up, they were taken
in hand-nets, and later found their way to
frying-pans.
* * * *
“Dai R.”: The other day I was driving,
with Charlie Riggers in a spring cart.
Charlie is a stubborn bloke, and the horse
jibej on the slightest excuse. We came to
a sheet of. water an ’ inch deep on a , gravel
bottom. It was good enough for the nag.
He stopped and refused to budge, despite
enthusiastic belaboring with a spreader from
Charlie. Charlie swore lie would make that
horse pull if he had to spreader him till
Christmas. As it was then the 2nd of January,
it shows you how determined Charlie was,
Presently a man’ oil a horse hove over the
horizon. “Won’t, he pull?” he asked. Charlie
growled wicked words. The man, who seemed
sympathetic, went away and
returned with an empty
jam-tin. “Let me have a go
at him,” he said. The new-
comer took no notice of the
spreader, but started to dip
water and pour it into the
prad’s nearest ear. Charlie
w a tche d him for five
seconds and then started
to say something, . but was
interrupted by the horse
suddenly developing the
hallucination that he was
Phar . Lap winning a race.,
Charlie caught him seven miles, further
along. We saw the jam-tin man across
the street next day, and he sang out,
“Always pour water in their ears.”
“Delia” : As a specialist in explosive sur-
gery I am far from satisfied with “Lilliput’s”
notes on the case of a shearer he treated
by this method (B. 30/12/’3l). The
remedies exhibited as preliminaries, includ-
ing the half-plug
of fracteur and
the tamping of
plaster of Paris
—though bus li
damper woul d
have been even
more efficacious —
were quite all
right. But the
alleged final ad-
ministration of
wax-matches and
sandpaper casts
a doubt on the
whole story. Had
the explosive used
been ordinary
bias ti n g gun-
powd e r, the
matches would
probably have
done the trick.
None of the nitro-
glycerine explo-,
sives respond to
flame .in the
manner described
—they simply
burn. They re-
quire detonation,
and for this rea-
son the dose of
fracteur should
have' been electric-
ally exploded by
a detonator. The
tamp i n g, too,
should have been
done after, and
not before, the
administration of
the exp losive:
then there would
be nothing to do
but press the bat-
tery button. How-
ever. “L.” is ad-
mittedly a coun-
try practitioner
and cannot be ex-
pected to be up
in the line with
metropolitan post-
graduate special-
ists.
* *
“C.A.8.” : Hump-
ing his bluey in
out-back Queens-
land, a traveller
sighted a cottage.
When he drew nearer he realised that the
place was deserted. Tacked to the door was a
faded notice. It read: “Twenty miles from
a neighbor, 40 miles from a post office, 150
miles from a railway, 1000 miles from Bris-
bane, 3 miles from permanent water and
10 miles from the wood supply. Whoever
finds this humpy can have it.”
:Jc :]: ❖ ❖
“Dr. Mivart”: I am afflicted by Com-
; munists. Seated one night recently in my
study I was startled by a detonation which
made me jump. A search of tin; apartment
failed to disclose any cause, so I looked out
of the window. Nothing to be seen. I
attempted to open the window, shut because
it was raining, but it went up only an inch
or two and then stuck. The edges of the
sash seemed to be smeared with damp mud.
Like a bird to its nest or the com-
pass needle to the north, my
thoughts flew to my offspring,
Horatio Abednego Mivart, a youth
of some eight summers, at times
addicted to sabotage. But Hora-
tio proved to be sleeping soundly,
and, anyway, he couldn’t get into
my study and smear mud on my
window because I keep the key in
my pocket. So I cleared the mud
away and shut the window. Next
evening, the heat being oppressive,
I sought to open my window at
the top. It was stuck. I took a
very heavy long screwdriver and
attempted to lever it down. It
moved an eighth of an inch, and
then came a loud report, accom-
panied by concussion. But as
nothing seemed to be broken I con-
tinued to heave on my screw-
driver. and inch by inch forced the
sash down. Both cords were broken
—it was the fall of the weights
which had caused the bomb-like sounds that
had startled me —and the orifices through
which the cords run were blocked with green-
ish mud. Thoroughly aroused, I brought in a
cold-chisel and a hammer and proceeded to
take the window-frame apart. An easy
task. The seemingly solid planks were, mere
paper-thick shells, and their removal dis-
closed Communist cities on either side of
the window-frame. Gallery above gallery,
catacomb above catacomb, clear to the ceil-
ing, ran a busy termitorium, and the edges
were manned by countless pasty-faced blind
soldiers, sensing light and space where none
should be by some sense denied to humans.
I left the room for bucket, broom and
shovel. When I returned the soldiers had
THE ONE TRUE REFORMER.
BITTER BILL: “As far as I can make out, Joe, only one man ever got
into Parliament who ’ad the right idea.”
JOE: “Who was that, Bill?”
BITTER B.: “Guy Fawkes!”
gone. Not a single termite remained. I
have cleared out the nest, and now bdilders
and “white-ant exterminators” (why people
call termites ants when they aren’t isn’t
clear) are endeavoring to trace the ramifica-
tions of the organisation in the walls of my
abode. Serves the termites right! If they
hadn’t resorted to terrorism I would never
have known they were there. Now they’ll
all be deported.
* * :t: *
“Gumblegubbin”: A man who has lived
through the whole story of the Darling
Downs is squatter Harry Bracket’, of
Waroo, who was born on the Downs four
years after Pat Leslie, with his ticket-of-
leave man, Peter Murphy, went out along
Cunningham’s track to settle at Toolburra,
the first squattage formed in Queensland.
Murphy’s Creek, by the way, was named
after the faithful Peter, who was also
responsible for the naming of Eton Yale,
taken up by Arthur Hodgson. Murphy,
while exploring with Leslie, lost a pocket-
knife on which the name Eton was engraved,
and Hodgson found it. Later, Eton Vale
was divided between Hodgson and Ramsay,
and Ramsay called his half Harrow. The
Darling Downs were cheaper then than the
empty central regions are to-day. The first-
comers took as much as they liked for a £lO
license fee, the only boundaries being
natural features. With a sweep of his
arm that embraced all within the wide en-
circling horizon, the squatter said, “This is
my run.” And it was. When I crossed
from Jondaryan to Waroo, in the years that
the locusts have eaten, the most con-
spicuous feature was the number of wind-
mills that met the eye on all sides. More
mills were visible at a time than could be
seen in any other part of Australia.
❖ i\i #
“Maca”: At Mount Dryander, Bowen
(N.Q.), in the late ’seventies a settler named
Toll was killed by the blacks. Black-
trackers traced the murderers to a lagoon
where all signs of them ceased. One of
the trackers said “Blackfollows longa
lagoon.” The inspector laughed. “You can’t
tell me that,” he said; “they can’t breathe
under water.” “Ha! You see em lily there,
got em no leaf, that him !” said the tracker,
and jumping in he pulled out a black. The
gang were all there, under water, breathing
through plucked lily stems.
THE FERRYMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beating down to Half .Moon to the jib’s and
mainsail’s draught,
For> the engine stopped, an hour back—
I cannot get it right;
Five hundred ‘bunphqs forrard, a thousand
more stowed aft,
And’ the freeboard’s next to nothing—
■ walk > her -down there through the
night.! ; iF
See the oily-gleaming;water sliding through
- past Ripple. Reef..
A nasty joggle here, lad; hold her to it,"
full and by!
If you rqll her gunnels qhder .yoil’ll feed the
fish beneath. ' J ' .
Old moon ; peeps through .the--cloud wrack
arid the’ gusts - come- piping high.
Oh, my .'forebear rail a ’slaver in tile black
bhd days of old,
But tliey burnt the ship beneath him, and
lie. was left to drown; •
And all -1 iiie -before him;knew. the-swing-
ing seas and cold;
But me -I. punch bananas from the
Narrows to the Town I
Still I always have the hope that when the
last Great Chanty sounds,
And the gaunt : and battered sailor men
arise from out the deep,
I may take my place among them where
the Lord hath set His bounds,
For I ran my one-man cargo boat from
spring tide through to neap.
QUEENSLAND.
RALPH' W. ADENEY.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. liyan, Esq. i
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq._, C.M.U.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Males, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,_ this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles —Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA,
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
LTD., Chancery House,
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Wonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonator?
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 18 n.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
...... £8,780,000
' •• . 6,150,000
•* ’ • ” “ . 8,780,000 . t
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
£23,710,000
£90,111,427
, AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 .. .. • •
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAYIDSON. ,
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.L.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ATT, CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
“FY7”: The pull-up shower-bath (B.
25/11/’3l) which one meets outside the
limits of water reticulation has been respon-
sible for many nasty accidents. I can
recall a mate at Toowoomba (Q.) being
fearfully cut about the head when the
“shower,” carrying four or five gallons of
water, fell on him. A worse thing happened
in Innisfail (N.Q.) the other day. A
Spanish cane-farmer had just got his shower
hoisted to the block when the rope slipped
from his hand. As the shower dropped, the
loose rope-end took a flying hitch round the
man’s neck, which was broken by the sudden
jerk.
“Mulgo”: The wildest and wariest game
birds I have seen were domestic fowl that
had gone bush. We had a little flock of
these on a Richmond River farm. The
house stood between a belt of river scrub
and a deep-grassed gully, where truant
pullets nested and hatched their eggs. Most
of them brought their chickens home, but
others reverted to the wild. The remark-
able thing about the progeny was that the
hens were never heard to cackle, even when
laying, nor the cocks to crow. At times
JUST MISSED IT.
THE SHEPHERD: “You don't mean to say you're drinking beer!”
CHARCOAL: “Poor-pfeller you, boss—we bin just finish Chrismis!”
w r e flushed some of them in the corn.
They would run like scrub-turkeys, and it
chased would rise and fly better than some
of the big birds of the bush. While pigeon-
shooting we got two high in the branches
of a scrub tree. At last we found their
roosts, lofty perches in the edge of the
scrub, and shot five. The others dis-
appeared ; it was supposed that they flew
over the river to bigger scrubs.
;jj * * *
“Mauri”: When orthodox prayer and ex-
hortation fail, the New Guinea native mis-
sion teacher is often not averse to employ-
ing some of the methods of his pagan fore-
fathers. Recently one of these gentry
startled his community by the prophecy that
their village would be destroyed in a mighty
earthquake, and he pointed to the spreading
fissures in the clayey soil as proof thereof.
(There had been a prolonged spell of dry
weather.) However, at tlieir earnest en-
treaty he interceded with the Powers and had
the dread day postponed, temporarily at
least. Then there appeared in the village
four natives, resurrected from the dead to
show the people the error of their ways. These
ostensibly lived without food or drink, and
they beat with rods the recalcitrant members
of the pastor’s flock who failed to work in
his garden and attend church twice daily.
It is not known how the resurrected ones
will return to the Golden Shore, for a
sceptical official has landed them in the
local gaol, from which, so far, their super-
natural powers have failed to deliver them.
* * *
“Bigada”: Three weeks ago I threw my
tent up here on the bank of the Ashburton
River (W.A.), and after getting things up
nice and snug I noticed a bull-ant’s nest
right against my tent flap. Bnll-ants being
no friends of mine, 1 poured in half
a bottle of kerosene and packed the hole
tight with a foot of soil, using an iron rod
as a rammer. I then retired purring with
satisfaction. When I awoke next morning
there were bull-ants everywhere. I found
they had cleared away the obstruction and
were busy dumping it grain by grain a few
inches away. Every evening this last three
weeks 1 have rammed that hole tighter and
tighter, in fact it lias become a fetich with
me; and every morning I find the ants, appa-
rently unconcerned, conveying the last par-
ticles away with a cheerfulness which fairly
radiates.
* * *
“Kooragai” : Far-northern blacks make use
of two kinds' of ants, the green and the honey-
hag. and they also have discovered the edible
qualities of the termite. The green ants
are crushed and the juice is diluted with
water and drunk as a nerve tonic and pick-
me-up. After a bout of opium Binghi
searches the scrubs for the palliative till
there is hardly a greenie left in the vicinity
of the camp. The sugar-ant provides a
choice dainty. Binghi digs down into the
nests, being very careful not to damage the
“womma” lie is after. The ants store honey
in the bodies of selected members of the
colony, and these honey-bag ants, -which
become so distended that they cannot move,
hang in clusters to the. sides of the cells
“SHELL SHOCK.”
like bunches of grapes. Binghi squeezes
the honey from the bodies; but if lie is
very hungry when he taps a nest, honey and
ants go down together. Termites ar.e caught
in the winged or swarming stage.: a job that
is generally given to the gins. The catch is
gently tossed about "in bark or wooden
vessels, and the easily-detached wings arc
blown away. In the final cleaniug the
squirming collection is poured from one
vessel into another, like a prospector dry-
blowing with two dishes. They are then
roasted on heated stones,
and when properly cooked
have a toasfy, nutty flavor
that Binghi smacks his
lips over. Sometimes a
few thousand ants are
crushed with a stone
roller and mixed into a
paste, called mungo,
which is baked in , the
ashes or on heated stones.
With mungo and womma
and a yard of rock snake,
Binghi dines well.
jj: *
“Pearler”.: The tele-
gram > announcing the
attack by abos. on a
Japanese pearling lugger
in nor’-west W.A. waters
does not present ebony
brother in any new light.
For over 40 years Binghi
lias buccaneered on the
nor t h and nor’-west
coasts. In 1886 Captain
Rickenson, coasting from
Darwin to King Sound,
pulled into one of the
dent's in tlife mainland to
effect repairs. He was
attacked by blacks and
put out by a stroke from
a waddy. His mate
Shenton snatched Rieken-
son’s revolver and made
good practice while the
ammunition lasted. Then
the blacks accounted for
httn. Taking possession
of the boat in which the
"white men had coihe
ashore they pulled off to
the schooner and looted
it. In 1926 a Japanese
lugger was lying off Bick-
ertoii Island, where her
captain had gone ashore. She was boarded
by Caledon Bay natives, who massacred the
crew. The captain, unaware of the a Clack
on liis boat, returned while the work of loot-
ing was proceeding. Two blacks came at
him with iron bars, and he rushed for his
cabin to get a rifle. Before lie could reach
it he was struck from behind, and his body
was thrown overboard. The pirates,, lost
ohe man; who was left dead on the deck
This casualty prevented their taking posses-
sion of the lugger, as tribal superstition
prohibits the use of anything held by the
dead, and the body could not be disposed of
by dumping it,. as in the case of the white
men. The first recorded case of a white captain
killed by blacks on his own vessel was that
of .Captain Towns, of. the cutter Smuggler, in
the Gulf of Carpentaria in 1886. With a
crew of four lie was sleeping below when
natives came aboard and in the absence
of a watch took possession of the deck.
Hearing their movements the captain went
up the companion-way. Immediately his
head appeared above deck-level it was split
with a tomahawk. The crew made a good
fight, and eventually drove the blacks over
the side.
* * * ’ *
“Nulliguna”: Credit and currency aren’t,
as some people seem to think., civilisation’s
pinnacle, but belong somewhere near the
foundation-stone. In the. Banks Islands,
where they have .shell money, credit is
highly developed. Interest, the risks being
considerable, runs at about 10 per cent.
Civilisation has nothing to teach, savagery in
the matter of dunning: the Bank Islands’
creditor has an unpleasant habit of being
his own bailiff, quartering himself upon, his
debtor and forcing his victim to borrow from
friends in order to get rid of him, which
causes great complications. But. dunning is
.subject to the rules of etiquette. If you
owe a man anything, no matter how little,
you shouldn’t dun him. Hence if A borrows
100 shells from B, he will, in some cases,
insist on lending 10 of them back to B.
* * :]t
“Bad Australian” : “Madox” (B. 16/12/’3l),
in commenting on a raid on a gambling-den
in Tully (Q.), says the Italian does not
gamble to any extent. This does not dove-
tail with my experience. For something
over 15 years I handled labor recruited from
Southern Europe—Maltese, Turk, Polack,
Slav, Montenegrin, Gallego, Neapolitan and
Sicilian. The Naps: and the Sicilians were
the most inveterate gamblers of the crowd,
also the noisiest and most quarrelsome, with
Abdul and the men from the Black Moun-
tain at the bottom of the list. 11l camps where
the Italians predominated the vigilantes :aud
the “practicantes” (five-eighth doctors)
worked overtime, and the calaboose was never
empty. Incidentally, the Montenegrin was
the best muck-shifter I ever met, except the
old-type Australian navvy who hailed from
the Devil’s Bit or the Shadow of the Kerry
mountains. ,•
PROSPECTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-night I’m going prospecting
Across the rolling sky !
I’ll hear the songs the comets sing
As they go flashing by.
The finger of the Southern Cross
Will point which way to go;
And with a heart as light as floss
I’ll journey on aglow.
Perhaps I'll snatch Orion’s belt
To hitch my dungarees;
And steal the Great Bear’s snowy pelt
To lay across my knees.
And where, with wolf-head backward thrown,
The Dog Star bays the moon,
I’ll halt and win him for my own
And name him Silver Croon.
I’ll pitch my tent of Dream beside
The red camp-fire of Mars ;
And delve for treasures deep that hide
In white mines of the stars.
I’ll sink a deep shaft in the blue,
Then throw my pick away
And pan my dirt the whole night through
Beside the Milky Way.
But Avhen my heart yearns for mankind,
And thought turns home once more,
I'll make a packhorse of the wind
And load him with my ore;
Then down the steep wide trail again
And where the eagle wheels,
I’ll trek across the sky’s blue plain,
The Dog Star at my heels!
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


Plum Razor Guard
'SS
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and fin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 2/9 each, post free.
Uhe PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case —
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—gin. and Jin.
Each raxor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, LTD., 654 George Street, Sydney.
IT IS SO EASY
Just a stroke of the pen, the mere recording of a signature, is
all that is required for the establishment of a Savings Account
that may eventually mean more to you than any business
arrangement you have ever undertaken.
Of course, a Savings Account may not be commenced without
some money, but since a sum so small as 1/- will be accepted
as the first deposit, hardly any person, man, woman or child,
need be without this simple, easy and profitable aid to the
accomplishment of financial independence.
Record your signature now and start your shillings to working
for you.
Commoiiwcaltl) Savinas Bank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
SMOKE-OH!
“When Sydney nudists bathe a guard is posted to
keep inquisitive onlookers away.’’
Would this be the Nude Guard?
* *
Rumored that Mr. Gander, the ex-billiard-
marker who won Reid, will take his cue in
future from Mr. Rang.
* #
Mr. Scullin considers the Melbourne
“Age’s” new series of articles on “Famous
Fires” extremely tactless.
* *
“Chicken for slimness.” —Poultry advt.
The wife, who is of portly build,
With joy this announcement heard,
And hopes that, shortly, she’ll have killed
Two stones with a single bird!
X *
OBITUARY.
“Alderman Gander (Lang Plan) beat Coleman
(Fed. Labor), the retiring member, in Reid.”
H.c fell beneath the junta's ban.
To Lang he would not pander.
And now he's lost his scat. The man
Who cooked his goose was Gander.
Scullin handed over the ruins of Govern-
ment last week.
* *
“The Communists had arranged for the bomb to
go off during the singing of the National Anthem.”
-— Cable.
On the principle, presumably, that every-
one should rise on such occasions.
THE BLOOD DRINKERS.
Synopsis of the New “World” Mystery
Serial.
The Nark gets off an Edgecliff tram at
the Cross, closely followed by McNab, of the
O.I.D., who has noticed Chesterton Smythe,
the Government House A.D.C., furtively
entering a notorious “snow” dive. McNab
THE FIRST NEW QUID.
NEWQUIDS : “That’s the suit of armor one of my ancestors
wore at the battle of ’Astings!”
Antiquarian Guest: “Er, I don’t think your ancestor
wore a suit like that at Hastings!”
NEWQUIDS: “Oh, I dunno. It would look smart enough
when it was new.”
refuges with the Mystery Woman, Macleay-
street Kate. Meanwhile, Adaminaby Ike
has parked his shooter, hurried to the
Pimento gang’s Woolloomooloo hideout, and
given the alarm. All is confusion at the
luxurious Potts Point home of Hon. Gran-
dison Vere, the Lang-plan M.L.C., whose
daughter, Eleanora, unbeknownst to her
father, is in league with The Nark, though
desperately in love with Smythe, and the
wife (in name alone) of the unscrupulous
Ike. Ike’s innocent child Gladys, by a former
wife who is still living (supposedly in
Central Africa, where she was born of a
union between a missionary and a chief’s
daughter—actually at No. 2 Waterside-ter-
race, Five Dock), is being used as an inter-
mediary by The Blood Drinkers, a gang of
thugs in the pay of The Nark. McNab (really
Dr. Jules Loulou. a dangerous international
criminal) joins the New Guard, posing as
an expert disseminator of anti-Communistic
literature, with the object of spying on
Smythe, whom he suspects of an illicit
love-affair with Eleanora. One night Mc-
Nab, while making a bet at Harold Park,
has one of his dogs shot by a masked
miscreant on the roof of the grandstand.
In the confusion the killer—identified by by-
standers as The Nark —escapes, leaving no
clues but his visiting-card, a blood-stained
sandshoe and a photo, inscribed “To Elean-
ora : Here’s hoping.” Simultaneously, there
is a deafening explosion at Hon. Vere’s
house, and The Nark (disguised as Ike)
walks coolly out of the smoking garage. “I
want you, Loulou,” he says curtly, and slips
the bracelets on Vere.
Now, if you can make head or tail of it,
read on.
ft ft
“A steak-meter, invented in the U.S.A., makes it
unnecessary to ask if steak is tough.”— “Argus.”
Up to now we’ve had to wait till the tooth
snapped off.
ft- ft
What’s wrong with Contract Bridge?
ft- ft-
Pity so many U.S.A. talkies are released
with a flourish of strumpets.
ft- ft-
PROGRESS OF A RUMOR.
“Feeling a trifle weak by this time, I staggered
into the Stadium as the midnight hour chimed and
almost tripped over a tiny black kitten, also inter-
ested in the Palmy Days Fiesta.” — Lady gossip-writer.
Rose Bay Tran\.
“So sad about that nice Miss Miffins, my
dear. The society reporter, I mean.”
“ ! ? ?”
“Not that I believe a word of it, mind
you. but I always think it’s a pity to see
a woman take even a ’ tiny drop
too much”—
“! ! !”.
“Of course it’s probably only
a wicked lie, but they do say
she was absolutely staggering
at the Stadium the other night.
Fell over a cat, if you
please”
Queen’s Chib, Monday.
The Editor. Sir, —I must ask
you not to send your Miss Mif-
fins to my ball in aid of the
Distressed Woollahra House-
maids next Thursday. Word
has reached my committee from
a most reliable source that the
condition of the unhappy young
woman at the recent Stadium
Fiesta was deplorable. I under-
stand that the R.S.P.C.A. is
considering the advisability of
taking action in respect of
wanton injuries done to a cat.
Need I say more? —Yours faith-
fully, IsOBEL VINNIGAB.
Sa.mmond’s Hotel, Tuesday.
Dear Miss Miffins, —I wonder
if I could prevail on you to
attend one of our “Short Talks
on Temperance”? I feel sure
y*u would be interested, and
that the arguments put forward
in favor of Commonwealth-wide
Prohibition would appeal to one
of your trained intellect as # un-
answerable. Remember, 'dear
Miss Miffins, that the effects of
booze, while temporarily pleas-
urable, no doubt, are fatal to
efficiency, more especially in so
exacting a profession as that of
literature. Wine was ever a
Mocker. Believe me—Yours for
teetotalism, T. T. Sammond.
Royal Hotel, Wednesday.
Madam, or Miss, —Have re-
cently purchased bankrupt stock
of wines, spirits and beers, which
I am placing on the market
at practically half-price, to advertise my
old-established business. Goods are on offer
to well-known connoisseurs in a position to
give publicity to my establishment, at a
20 per cent, discount, making the greatest
bargain ever offered to convivialists in our
fair Harbor City. Trusting I may have a
call from your good self and/or boon com-
panions (or ’phone YYOIIO, when carter
will deliver in any quantities).—Yours to
command. Mick Rafferty, J.P.
Chambers, I>Mllip-street.
, ’ T ‘ ..
‘Of course it won t be another Field case,
Mr. Liinelighter, hut m giving you an
opportunity to Dad for my grossly-wronged
client, Miss Miffins, I consider I am doing
you a very good turn indeed. We are
asking for £oo,ooo damages at. present, but
AND THAT’S THAT.
“But why shouldn’t I go with you ? Don’t you want me to know what you’re about?”
“Oh, if that’s what you want to know, I’m about fed up.”
the sum is likely to be increased at any
moment by the publication of fresh libels.
I might mention that plaintiff, in addition
to being a total abstainer, is . a prominent
Girl Guide, a Rechabite and past-president
of a Dorcas Society. A resounding success,
in my opinion and that of my partners, is
assured.”
ft -t
“Hird lifted the next ball on to the awning of
the grandstand.”— “Herald.”
The idea being to stop the yawning in
the grandstand.
ft %
Objectives for 1932 of the Never-Say-
Die League:—
Deportation of wireless uncles and taxa-
tion officials.
Electioneering campaigns to be con-
ducted in the deaf and dumb language.
Lang to be appointed Trade
Commissioner for Australia
at South Pole.
Garden to be appointed
High Commissioner for Aus-
tralia at North Pole.
System of exchanging ani-
mals between Taronga Park
and foreign zoos to be altered,
enabling politicians to be
shipped from this end.
Restoration of Governor
Bligh’s rum currency, every
citizen to have the right to
constitute himself a bank of
issue.
* ft
PROVING IT.
Hiram van Skight, presid-
ing genius of the Mighty
Howlitzer at the Theatre Out-
rageous, was dead. A Satanic
floor -captain showed him over
his new home: “In this'new
Gothic-Georgian chapel we
treasure the nagleejay of
Norma Garbage, which she
didn’t wear in ‘Nood.’ Heah
we house a plasster cast of
Rudolf Giblert’s footprints.
which were miraculously revealed to Miss
Maiden do Spair on the doorstep of the
Reno (U.S.) Divorce Court after his 51st
visit”
“This ain’t Hell,” yawned -Hiram; “it’s
more like the Outrageous.”
The floor-captain indicated a Mighty
H'owlitzer.
“Don’t you tell me thissis Hell, Buddy,”
chortled Van Skight; and, taking his seat
at .the console (U.S.A. for keyboard), he
announced to the writhing lost souls : “Unit
I—My1—My own arrangement of the Wedding
March from Taiinhauser, introdoocing the
Foxtrot ‘My Baby’s Pants are Milanese.’ It's
a wow ! It’ll grab at your heartstrings and set
your feet raving with rhythm.” So saying
he drew olf and took a vigorous punch at
one of the organ stops. A beautiful chord
pealed out.
Hiram started amazedly, and punched
again. Came lovely music yet again. The
Wizard of the Console shuddered and played
20 characteristic discords. A swelling melody
?L S Ji eer b / aut ? his ° n \ y * ew * rd - And
the more frenziedly he pounded and stamped
the more sweetly sang the Howlitzer! House-
manager Beelzebub grinned evillv as Hiram
shrieked above the glorious music, for which
he was unwillingly responsible. “You’re
quite right, baby; this, sure, is Hell 1”
m
“The mere assertion that Australia’s resources
will pull us through is of no use.” — “Argus.”
There’s no gain saying that.
¥■ ft
“An expert declares that through lack of support, the
tote in Britain may become bankrupt.”— “Herald.”
Then tliere’d be the divvy to pay.
ft *
“Britain pays taxes with a smile.”
— “Herald” headline.
Australian Treasurers will accept nothing
but money, worse luck.
ft *
“Kippax .reached 50 by pulling Bell to cover.”
Our favorite shot is a hefty hook over
fine, slip’s head.
ft ft
“Arrest of Gandhi.”
Well, the British Government had to show
its teeth when he started showing his tooth.
AN AFTER-DINNER SPEAKER.
“Receptacles become choked with pennies, and
telephones, as a result, are officially ‘out of order.’ ”
Too full for words, in fact.
* ft
Anyhow, the U.S.A. lias an excuse for
collaring the world’s gold. The stuff is
needed for Hollywood’s wedding-rings.
* ft
“Love laughs at locksmiths.”
So do the prisoners in Yatala gaol.
CONUNDRUM.
Oh, darling, what ought I to do —
Buy Salad Oil or marry you?
Fairer than daffodils you arc,
But Salad Oil’s well under par.
Of these two gambles, tell me, pet.
Which is the more disastrous bet?
LAMENT.
My Bonnie and I took a lodger —
In need of. the money ivere ive.
My Bonnie and I took a lodger.
Ah! bring back my Bonnie to me.


and Suxuriate at the Chateau.
What a holiday! The marvels
of a snow clad giant within
easy reach of a luxurious modern
Hostel, The Chateau Tongariro
... a few miles from the rail-
way ... Gaiety, social fun, sports
and climbing. Spend a wonder-
ful holiday . . ,
pn
Martin Place & Pitt Street,
(Opp. G.P.0.), Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
And 79 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SEAL OF GUARANTEE
ON N ECK OF EVERY BOTTII
ETAT MEANS
"STATE vi 2
OWNED BY THE
STATE OF FRANCE
'C
m
m
to
a*.
tto,
Hy
i —i
CELESTINS is the
NAME OF THE SPRING
BOTTLED & GUARANTEED
PURE BY THE FRENCH
GOVERNMENT
The Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as co the authen*
ncity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters, is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
following statement defies contradiction;
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what you should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumat-
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs, restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.
Gxamine the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes.
Sole Agents for Australia: MAURTCE PJELL ETIEU, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS :
VICTORIA :
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St.. Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace. Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Listen-in to Mick Simmons’ “Snapshots of
Sport” Session, Station 2UW, every
Thursday, 7.15 p.m.
Hick Simmons
guiCHrifle
'AND
I
AMMUNITION
I /
SPECIALISTS
%
u
Ui iqu esiio 11 ab ly i *ep re -
senting the grealest
value ever offered in
this class of Firearms!
The New
WINCHESTER
MODEL
60
Price, 37/6
outage, 2/-
thcr States
3/6.
d
22-cal. Single-
shot Rifle, for
22 short, Jong-
rifle rim-fire cart-
ridges. It has a
23in. heavyweight
barrel, bored rifled
and chambered to the
extremely close toler-
ances necessary to ensure
maximum efficiency from
the various high-power .22
rim-fire cartridges that have
lately appeared on the market.
Special attention has been paid to “head
spacing’’ between bolt and cartridge, so as
to avoid the possibility of burst rims, and
provide the solid backing that is essential
to the finest accuracy.
Other Low-priced , Dependable
SPORTING
RIFLES
No. 1 —THE MAINE
TIT LIT 22-cal., bolt action, fitted
* with plain V backsight; for
short, long or long-rifle cartridges. Round
barrel 18in. long, bored and rifled with the
same care as the military weapon, and
guaranteed accurate; weight about no r
31b ZZO
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/-
No. 4A-F.N. SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE,
safety bolt, 21in. barrel; weight „ ,
about 341 b. oLI/”
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/-
No. 33—SAVAGE
SINGLE-SHOT
RIFLE, Model 3,
22-cal.; 23in. round steel barrel, bolt
action ; handles short, long or long-rifle
cartridges; gold bead front- and adjustable
rear-sight; pistol-grip stock; weight cy-risr
4ilb. 07/0
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/-
No. 31 —BROWNING
AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
*? A. 22 short or long-rifle;
ITIUUC* gach r ifle takes one
size cartridge only; walnut stock, pistol-
grip; Ifliin. barrel; length 36in.; bead
front- and screw roar-sight; safety bolt;
barrel may be dismounted by uti- Sifif/
screwing | turn ; weight 441 b. .. Oj/“
Carriage Paid.
No. 15 —WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLE,
1906 Model, |:«b,
plain trigger, straight grip, ladder rear-
sights, slide action; magazine holds to
short. 12 long or 11 long-rifle j? ez /I J 2 I
cartridges; weight about sflb.,
Carriage Paid.
AVAIL YOURSELF OF THE
SERVICES OF
MR. LIONEL H. BIBBY
Revolver and Rifle Shooting Instructor
at Mick Simmons
and Australia’s Recognised Authority on
Guns, Rifles and Ballistics.
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0.. Hay market-,
Sydney.
MickSimmonslxd
720-722 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“The Premier Sports House oj Australia.”
SHADOW SHOWS.
Only three of the four Marx Brothers are
prominent in “Monkey Business" at Sydney
Prince Edward. Zeppo, the Valentino of the
family, might be the late Karl for all the
impression he makes on. the show. Otherwise
things proceed according to customary plan,
with an Atlantic liner as the chief setting.
The brethren, as stowaways, tear about pur-
sued ineffectually by the _ crew, invade the
chartroom, eat the captain’s dinner, interfere
in a children’s Punch and Judy show and an
old gentleman’s chess game (one of the fun-
niest of their acts), and generally make pests
of themselves. Each tries in turn to get
ashore at New York by pretending to oc
Maurice Chevalier, and the silent Harpo
seems to be singing and talking till he turns
round and reveals a gramophone on las back.
In the second part, which occurs at a- party
given by a gangster, the daughter of the
palace is kidnapped, and the Marxs help to
rescue her. Groucho does most of the wise-
cracking, and Harpo most of the panto-
miming, as usual, and the pianist, Clnco, pulls'
his weight. Theirs is the humor of pure
lunacy as opposed to the humor of Chaplin
and imurel and Hardy, which has charac-
ter and some relation to life; in other words,
it is Continental as opposed to British-Amori-
can clowning. It hardly seems possible that
a speechless half-wit in a shaggy flaxen wig
should be able to keep an audience or
slump-smitten Nordics laughing for the best
part of an hour and a half, but Harpo dots
it. He is a genius of the irresponsible
Grock school. Grouclio —slick, impudent,
quick-witted—has genius too. A strong
point in their favor is that they keep heart-
break right out of their foolery.
* * #
Zasu Pitts excels in the portrayal of
gentle, elderly maidens who are easily
shocked. No one registers deprecating help-
lessness in the face of evil so well with
the hands, and her mouth work is also
highly effective. In “A Pyjama Party,’ at
the State, she finds herself amongst loose-
living millionaires, and is required to do as
they do. A kick in the seat of the trousers
may not be a side-splitter in itself, but when
administered with refined diffidence by Miss
Pitts it gets the guffaws and earns them.
Most of this farce consists in people being
kicked or pushed into baths. Nothing damper
has been seen since the De Mille silent in
which Pharaoh’s hosts w'ere submerged by
the waters af the Red Sea.
¥ *
The average talkie director is faced with
a twofold problem. Nearly all film-stars
are immutable types. Hollywood s best-
boomed son would find his fan mail fatally
depleted if he so much as changed his boots.
Greta Garbo, now starring in M.-G.-M. s
“Susan Lenox,” at Sydney State, though
reputedly of austere virtue in private life
must always play a kept woman. Her public
insists. Leading women in the days of the
stage played all kinds of parts; like poor
Jack Cannot, most of them could “dance, sing,
emote and comede.” It made for variety,
which is the mirror as well as the spice ot
life. But the public of an artist like Ellen
Terry or Sarah Bernhardt was comparatively
small and intelligent. The public of artists
like Greta Garbo is implicit in movie palaces
of the size of the State; it is 90 per cent,
proletarian, and members of the proletariat,
the “Labor Daily” recently pointed out,
are mostly morons. Morons don’t want the
truth in literature, the drama, politics or
anything else. Greta Garbo, as, say, Iledda
Gabler, would revolt them. They want fakes
-—fake thrills, fake sentiments, fake morali-
ties. Hence confections such as “Susan
Lenox,” which may be described as a psy-
chological Lang Plan. The heroine is seduced
almost on sight, and takes naturally to a
life of promiscuity. Mistress of a circus pro-
prietor, mistress of a millionaire, she is in-
different so long as the arrangement solves
her immediate problems. So far so gobd.
The character is familiar in all grades of
society, and Miss Garbo plays it to the life.
But her director has to satisfy the 90 per cent,
who want nonsense as well as the 10 per cent,
who want sense, So he announces, in effect,
towards the end that despite appearances the
heroine wasn’t really that kind of girl. On
the contrary, she was a one-man woman of
simple tastes, an innately virtuous home-
body whom any “Labor Daily” subscriber
might be proud to call wife. She had been
yearning all those years to share Clark
Gable’s poverty, and the fade-out leaves them
in each other’s arms. This concession to
cretinism doesn’t prevent “Susan Lenox”
being an interesting picture. The acting,
not only of the stars but of all the small-
part players, is masterly, and the photo-
grapher has got some original effects by tak-
ing shots of shadows. The episode in
which a shadow of the newly-born Susan is
seen being held upside down and smacked
into life by a doctor is about the first satis-
fying study of the circumstances surrounding
an accouchement of the hundreds that have
been screened. Certainly it is the first m
which the new arrival has looked less than
three months old.
* * *
“Transatlantic.” at Sydney Regent, is an
attempt at Germanic realism by Fox. The
Transatlantic is a liner, and in a series
of close-ups you become acquainted with
several passengers—a banker (J. Ilalliday) ;
his wife (Myrna Loy), whom he neglects
for a dancer (Greta Nisson, a second-rate
Dietrich) ; a retired lens-grinder (Jean Her-
sholt) on his first holiday for 20 years;
his daughter (Lois Moran), and a profes-
sional gambler (Edmund Lowe). News
comes that the banker has burst his bank.
The lens-grinder is ruined and goes to face
the banker, threatening murder. His
daughter flies to the gambler, who has been
attentive to her; they, and they only, hear
a revolver shot, and the banker falls. Dis-
covering the lens-grinder by the body, the
gambler arranges the affair to look like
suicide. But the banker is not dead —only
seriously wounded and robbed—and the
gambler and the lens-grinder are arrested.
A steward helps the former to temporarily
escape, and after a revolver duel in the
engine-room the gambler arrests the real
thief, who confesses. The Transatlantic
berths. The gambler is shown in custody;
he is “wanted” on another charge and is
to be extradited. The banker’s wife and
her hubby, slowly recovering, are going back
to work off their liabilities —as a first effort
she has given the lens-grinder a draft on her
London bank. The lens-grinder’s daughter
and the gambler say good-bye : although she
is obviously infatuated with him, they do not
Promise to Wait For Each Other. A charm-
ingly original touch.
In “The Daughter of the Dragon” (Para-
mount), second string at the Regent, Dr.
Fu Maucliu prowls around trying to. kill
people in revenge for casualties suffered by
his family during the Boxer outbreak. His
first attempt succeeds, though he is wounded
while doing the job. He implores his daugh-
ter, Ming Loy, a Chinese dancer on the
English stage, whose relationship to him is
unknown outside Chinese circles, to carry
on the baleful work. The only remaining
member of the English family marked down
as victims, a young blonde named Ronald,
has a crush on Ming Loy, who is by no
means indifferent to him. The issue is
furtner complicated by a Chinese private de-
tective, who is protecting Ronald and is
in love with Ming Loy, by Ronald’s English
fiancee, a squad of detectives, Fu Manchu's
rascally lieutenant and others. Doors open
of their own accord, fierce scuffles take part
in corridors, various characters are captured
and rescued, recaptured and re-rescued, shots
are fired, knives flash and drinks are poisoned
until all the villains, even the alluring Ming
Loy. got their deserts. Warner Oland is Fu-
Manciiu, Anna May Wong plays Ming Loy,
and Sessne Ilayakawa, who made _ many
appearances on the silent screen, is the
Chinese detective.
¥ * •¥
“Mixer”: Here’s a bit more light on the
origin of talkies. The notion of photographing
sound and reproducing it was conceived as
far back as 1862 by a Viennese engineer
named Cermak. Nothing was done with the
idea until 188 S, when Eugene Lauste gave
a practical demonstration of the process,
using a selenium cell for reproduction. In
1966 Lauste. in association with an Austra
lian named Haines, was granted a patent fo:
a “method and means for simultaneously
recording and reproducing movements and
sounds.” Lauste’s recorder used a mirror
galvanometer as a light vibrator, and a
selenium cell. His device, with refinements
(principally in the light sensitive cell), is
exactly what is used to-day wherever sound
track film is run. “Cine Ma” is quite right
in saying the photo-electric cell was tin
pioneer in the talkie field. When Warner
Bros, and the Western Electric people were
experimenting with the disc idea in a produc-
tion of “Don Juan” the De Forest Phono-
film was an established system—there was
even a studio in Sydney. The scenes and
speeches at the official opening of Canberra
were photographically recorded, and that wa
long before A! Jolson caused the stylus of a
disc-cutter to vibrate with emotion.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
THE SMOKE NIGHT.
DEPARTING GUEST: “Shay, waiter, fin’ me
’nother hat, thish one’s too tight.”
[G. R. Ashton. —30/7/’92.]
the EASTER BUN.
Hood Friday has passed, and the tough,
leathery, homicidal hot-cross bun has been
successfully negotiated for another year.
Once in each twelve months that hereditary
boiler-plated victual rises to blight the
human race, and having fulfilled its mission
and left the Aryan family with murder in
its soul and riotous frenzy in its entrails,
it passes away over the visible horizon, to
lie, low until it is time to issue forth once
more on its path of devastation. Over four
continents and across three out of the five
great oceans the stern and ferocious bun
pursues its purpose of exciting earthly ani-
mosity, and lies like tons of lead on the
digestive organ of the devout citizen, and
yet no one apparently has the courage to
rise in insurrection against it. It is endless,
eternal, and practically imperishable. Every
year new victims fall before it and pass
away with the bun embedded in their vitals,
and their remains are hastily shunted into
the tomb, and the passing ages drift over
their heads and see them moulder into dust;
but still the bun survives among their
wreckage, and only stands out more- pro-
minently as its earthly surroundings fall
into decay. Every year a pall of ominous
bun spreads like a clammy shroud over the
feast, and something that sounds like the
footsteps of a cannon-ball falls with a dull
thud into the human inside, and still no
poet is aroused to blast this wooden article
of food, and cast it down a steep place into
AFTER THE N.S.W. POLITICAL “CRISIS.”
BOTH: “But, Lord, you just ought to see the other fellow!”
[“Hop.”— 8/10/’92.]
the sea. And therefore we call for a laureate
with piracy and rapine in his eye and the
profanity of ancient Greece at his finger-ends,
for a Tai-Ping philosopher who wields with
ease and fluency the 87,000 words —most of
them curses—of which the Chinese language
is composed, or for an African rain-maker or
other agent of frenzy to awake and curse the
annual Friday bun in tones of indignation,
and to throw mud and anathemas at the
public enemy who first invented it.
The bun of the orthodox church is slow
in its results, but very enduring, and its
best efforts are reserved for the dark and
silent night. Its victim drifts faintly off
to bed with a feeling as if a boulder were
standing upon his soul; and presently this
sensation spreads and expands and swells
visibly until he falls into an uneasy slumber,
to dream that lie is a vast, green, half-ton
beetle built of scrap-iron floundering cum-
brously over a heavy sea of ink and garbage
and buns. Then the vision changes, and he
imagines that lie is a lost pilgrim stumbling
wearily over an endless glaring desert where
; the temperature is a hundred billion in the
ice-chest, and doomed- to toil there for a
thousand ages more, bearing ceaselessly on
liis bow’cd shoulders the load of 100,000 iron
buns clamped with brass.
For . a period that seems like centuries he
lies and watches, his own progress across
the red-hot molten wastes; but at last the
desert fades away, and the sand and boulders
vanish in the distance, and the sufferer sud-
denly finds himself a meteor tearing through
the icy darkness of space, with the earth
looking like an imperceptible speck of light
behind, and the Pole Star like another im-
perceptible speck in front, while all around
.there revolves a vast solar system of over-
done buns, each with its half-grown attend-
ant underdone bun for a satellite. There are
all shapes and sizes and varieties—the old
, petrified bun, dead and hung, out to dry in
the sky, the half-baked bun that has gone
bad and fires its evil odor across the solar
depths, the misshapen, soggy bun wobbling
.feebly in its eccentric orbit, and a hundred
more which he is just about to reckon up,
when the panorama fades, and he finds him-
self drifting along the slimy riimrs of
Gehenna -on a . putrefied buiv which rolls
heavily through the flaming cataracts and
down the boilihg rapids Oh. each side there
yawn tjie caves whose walls are solid fire, and
rocky gaps from which there issues a
mephitic blast like a fujmace filled with
(death and everywhere there, sit and gibber
and howl and screech myriads' of lopsided
half-rotted demons all eating buns stuck on
red-hot tridents,—bugs that .are filled with
soi pouts buns flavored with lions and boa-
constrictors—-buns that, have dead men’s
tombstones stuck on top of them and which
bear inscriptions setting forth that they are
“Sacred to the memory of Buns that
are made out of the wreck of sunken ships,
and the ruins of dead empires, and the frag
ments of human hopes, and the splinters of
lost worlds, and myriads of other buns.
But suddenly lie seems to lose hold of all
the vast chaos of demons and furnaces and
seas of smellful fire, and he finds himself
again on the surface of the earth, and alone.
Above him a dull grey sky spreads from
horizon to horizon • around him is a dull
grey earth from which all life and color has
vanished and all verdure has fled, save a thin
carpet of grey, unwholesome-looking grass
and a few stunted trees whose foliage is
the color of the ocean mists; in the distance
a motionless, tideless sea lies asleep, and
lighting up the whole panorama is a dead
sun—like a liot, brown bun —standing still ip
a dead heaven. A few broken grey ruins
mark the spot where the city used to stand,
but all humanity is gone for ever. But far
away on the horizon a single dull brown
object breaks the awful monotony of earth
and sea and sky, and toiling wearily towards
it the last forgotten man discovers it to be
an enormously swollen bun —the one mov-
able article of food which was too heavy to
be carried away when the whole human race
took flight a hundred thousand years before.
Everything else has fallen into oblivion. The
mountains have been eaten away by imper-
ceptible decay, and have drifted in impalpable
dust into the plains; the moving sand wastes
have filled up the river beds and wiped them
off the map; the volcanoes have grown cold
and have ceased to crack and split
and drop into fragments from their lofty
eminence; but the bun is still there. And
with the last man sitting utterly alone on
top of the last pastry, the deceased planet
plods wearily through the sky, waiting for
the fulfilment of its destiny. [27/4/’S9.]
Dear Bulletin, — In those bygone years,
when “Young and Jackson’s” pub, Mel-
bourne, was “Mooney’s,” it was rhe vogue
with regular patrons to pay up scores every
Friday night; meanwhile
the lOU’s were kept in a
tumbler on the mantelpiece
of the back parlor. Early
one morning after ceasing
work at the “Argus,” we
smuggled ourselves into
Mooney’s a.s usual. The
lOU tumbler was well pat-
ronised. As we were leav-
ing, Marcus Clarke entered
and haled us all back. Now,
Mooney adored Marcus, who
presently was standing with
his back to the mantel and
fascinating the landlord
with a well-told story.
Clarke’s pipe would keep
going out, and so lid kept turn-
ing round nonchalantly and
relighting it with a neatly-
folded piece of paper taken
out of the lOU tumbler.
Mooney was so entranced
with the narrative that ho
failed to notice this destruc-
tion of his “accounts.’
Every time we laughed (foi
we perceived the situation)
Marcus Clarke scintillator
afresh, and Mooney onlj
thought we were convulsed
at what was also amusing
him. On the following
Friday night, at settlement
time, the landlord exhibited
much surprise. The week
had been a hot and thirsty
one. Yet, while some, of the
accounts were abnormally
large, nine of them—Clarke
had lighted up nine times!
—wore unaccountably small.
1 lowever, these latter shared
a proportion of their savings
with those who had paid up
4t drinks to the sovereign
— W attle B. [9/0/93.]
OUR SHOW.
In the far interior of N.S.W. the great
hope and comfort of the soul seems to be in
holding an agricultural show. The agri-
cultural show is a thing that is hard” to
deline; perhaps one may get as near to it
as is permitted to fallen mortals here below
when he describes it as an agitated funeral
with turnips in it; but, anynow it is the
prevailing dissipation of the back regions
and when the annual function comes round
the whole district for several feet in every
direction steeps itself in revelry and keeps
high carnival by gazing tisliily a t samples
of oats. The town of Orange (NSW)
held its yearly shriek of mirth the other
day, and in the matter of riotous solemnity
and flurry and beer it appears to be the
unanimous opinion that it struck a hi»h
note in the scale of progress.
The bush-headed white native tows him-
self slowly and sagaciously through the col-
lection, and urges his six-foot wife and
his gawky daughter through the giddy halls
of not and luxury ; and as he fixes his eye
on the ram whose sides have fallen in, and
looks with centuries of weariness in his gaze
at the bag of cow-feed exhibited by farmer
thump, he feels convinced that the pro-
gramme lays over the gilded revels which
used to fill the palace of Versailles in the
days of its glory, and thinks how the old
blown-out monarchs of Europe would sit
up m amazement if they could stand where
he is standing, and gape, with their crowns
and sceptres on, at the lien-feed which sur-
rounds him.
As a rule it rains heavily at Orange just
before the show comes on, and as a conse-
quence half the surrounding population is
bogged in its efforts to reach the scene
where the excitement culminates and the
tattered fowl and the unnaturally swollen
onion urge the public frenzy to its apex.
All over the country broken-down horses
are being prodded by the oldest inhabitant
into renewed efforts to get out of the mud-
hole before it will be too late to join the
great insurrection, and, everywhere around,
the toothless grandfather who came in with
the Conqueror is foundered in two feet of
mud and is frantically shoving at his un-
greased buggy where it stands imbedded
among the clods. Generally his efforts are
not rewarded, and then the fat muslin
maiden of 12 stone who roosts on the front
seat is dredged out in tears and conveyed
to the nearest public-house, and the agricul-
tural show is lost to her for another year.
And, meanwhile, to pile up her woes and
fill her jug of misery to overflowing, she is
filled with the bitter consciousness that some
other girl, whom she despises because her
hat is two feet lower than her own and has
eleven fewer stuffed birds on the top of it,
has_ probably got there, and is leaning up
against tne pen where the Cochin-China
rooster with his tail torn out shines in all
his_ glory, and is otherwise putting on airs
which ought to be extinguished.
There is enough bitterness about an agri-
cultural show to wreck an empire, but the
final upheaval comes when the prizes are
allotted, for then the man who put up the
lank and sombre cow with its horns grown
into its eye wants to know why the boiler-
plate medal was given to the man who in-
serted the rheumatic heifer with consump-
tion and its ear dislocated; and the owner
of the patchy yellow bull desires to fight
70 rounds with the proprietor of the blue
working bullock; and the lady who ex-
hibited the cockatoo with fits can’t be made
to comprehend why she didn’t get first prize
for agricultural implements and an honor-
able mention in the green-fodder depart-
ment ; and when all these woes are healed or
smothered the procession trails wearily home-
ward over the boulders; and feels that life
will be a blank until Time has struggled
round again upon his axis, and the date for
another dog-eared exhibition has come round.
[ll/5/’B9.]
PRESENCE OP MIND.
J ONES: "Say, Smith, old man, lend me fifteen bob.”
SMITH: "Certainly. How much did you say?"
JONES: “Fifty bob.”
[Atf Vincent. — 19/11/93.]
SPELL OH!
’Twas in the Fraser country, where the coast
is wild and strange ;
And “swagging” up the long divide that
leads to Daybreak Range
We came, and reached the saddle where the
steep rise starts to slow;
Then dropped our loads and, resting, gazed
upon the gorge below.
And out beyond we looked towards the
faintly-gleaming sea,
Along the dim horizon-line where forests
cease to be;
And from the white-fringed coast there came
the soft, persistent sound
Of countless sighs that dying waves breathed
o’er their burial-ground.
And then, in strangest humor, borne on
Fancy’s whimsome feet,
Far, far away from Daybreak Range I paced
the crowded street;
The countless thousands passed along with
loads that bent their back' —
They carried more than “eighty” as they
struggled up the track!
Some were, alas! so feeble that they fainted
by the way;
And some rushed wildly through the throng
with gestures of dismay;
And some there were of giant strength who
seemed to walk in sleep,
And slowly crept with crushing loads in
trance unconscious, deep.
And some I saw whose faces held no human
destiny—
Pale spectres of the men that once they
fondly hoped to be ;
And some there w'ere but young in years,
yet from whom Hope had fled.
To leave them, careless of their chains, in
all but seeming dead!
Then suddenly a sound was heard that
thrilled that toiling band— .
A voice that, clear as trumpet-call, went
speeding o’er the land.
And men whose ears were long time dulled
by labor’s iron knell
Stopped still, with leaping hearts, to hear
the cry of “Spell oh! Spell!”
Then loads were dropped,, and weary forms
sank panting on the ground;
And Care a moment ceased to brood as
respite sweet was found ;
Whilst haggard faces, in the flush of rest,
shone almost fair,
And silent tongues were loosed, and babbled
music on the air!
And then I woke, or seemed to wake, and on
the column pressed,
Whilst at its head some unseen band played
softly hymns of rest;
And in their homes the women of that
dumb and awful crowd
With wasted fingers swiftly sewed another
worker’s shroud.
But oft at night, when Heaven hangs close,
there echoes strangely clear
Some semblance of that clarion-call that
speaks the good time near
When voice of man, or voice of God, in
accents all may tell,
Shall waken every deadened soul with cry
of “Spell oh! Spell!”
W. E. CAREW.
WEDDED.
d
It’s us two when it’s mornin’,
An’ us two when it’s night,
An' us two when it’s troubles,
An’ us two when it’s bright.
An’ us two don’t want nothin’
To make life good an’ true,
An’ lovin’ sweet an’ wholesome,
While us two’s got us two.
M. J. O.


d
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
YEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJT AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers' Co-operative Grain Insurance and
55., Agency Co., Ltd.
4
try*
White I MPP,tSS
of BRITAIN"
Canadian Pacific offers you
the world’s most romantic
and trouble-free journey
to England and Europe.
OF THEM ALL.'
Fastest dr most luxurious
of Canadian Pacific Steamers
There’s a new experience in store foi
those fortunate enough to travel on the
new White “Empress of Britain”—latest
addition to the C.P.R. Atlantic Fleet-
last word in luxury—new and novel fea-
tures; for comfort and enjoyment celebrat-
ed C.P.R. service and cuisine. One deck
entirely for games De Luxe Cabins
and appointments. Sailings regularly on
the Canadian Pacific St. Lawrence route
to England. Write for illustrated litera-
ture to— Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney. . „
CANADIAN PACIFIC
™a™*steamers hotels
Jhe Worlds Oreolosf Jro'se 1 System
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
THE PRICE OF WOOL.
“Valerin” : Average price of wool sold in
Australia to the end of December was
S.6od. per pound. This includes most of
the superfine clips, but not an estimated 5 per
cent, of low-grade wools held in the sheds
as worthless. The currency situation and
exchange rate give growers a benefit ot
approximately 40 per cent., so that the 8.60 and.
average is really only about sd. Before the
close of the selling season this may fall to
4d. per pound. The position is much worse
in S. Africa, where wool is unsaleable
except at prices that mean stark min for
growers.
What is behind this world move to force
wool producers into bankruptcy V . W ool-
production is not keeping pace with increase
of population; the competition of near-wool
substitutes has been proved a bogey, and the
argument of low purchasing power sounds
like buyers’ propaganda. In March, 1931,
an English friend with large grazing in-
terests in Queensland wrote me: “Wool-
growers are in a fight for the right to
exist: without a shred of organisation they
are fighting highlv-organised combines and
some of their so-called protagonists are being
well ‘subsidised.’ ” I wonder !
CARE OF RAMS.
“Cass”: On my N.S.W. farm I joined
rams on Nov. 1 for April-May lambs. The
rams were taken out six weeks later and
put into a lucerne paddock kept for this
purpose. To avoid bloat, the paddock was
sown lightly with lucerne seed, 21b. per
acre; it has a good mixture of other grasses,
including Wimmera rye, prairie, plain and
wallaby grass. Early mating was not very
successful, owing to casualties amongst the
rams. After two weeks in this lucerne
paddock they were joined again on Jan. 1
for June-July lambs.
To assure the maximum winter lambing
the ewes are similarly removed to fresh
pastures for two weeks, a. paddock having
been spelled for them. This puts the ewes
in the fresh condition necessary for a big
lambing.
Before mating rams I carefully shear all
wool from around the horns with blades.
I struck trouble this year from ingrowing
horns which obscured the vision.. The rams
were belted out of action by their mates, so
I tied them up securely and with a sharp
wood-saw severed their horns near the head,
stopping the bleeding with perohloride of
iron. They were immediately ready for work
again.
NATIVE GRASSES.
“Valerin”: Agrostologists are experiment-
ing with African grasses in the hope of get-
ting a drought-resistant variety for the more
or lees arid areas of Australia. That is all
right. But what is wrong with some of our
native or almost “native” grasses? _
Take the Stipa grasses, of which the
corkscrew grass of River in a is an example:
this is drought-resistant, suitable for dry
summers and makes a decent winter feed,
too. It is a nutritious grass when most
required. The objection to it is the spear-
like seed, which causes heavy mortality
amongst young sheep, working its way
through the skin into the flesh. By selec-
tion or hybridisation it should be possible
to evolve a variety free from the dangerous
seed. Persistent selection enabled Burbank
to make a valuable fodder plant of tin;
worthless Mexican cactus by breeding out
the poisonous little spines.
On account of its seed, barley grass
(Hardcum murinum ) is not popular with
sheepmen, but when green it is a succulent
and valuable feed in the late winter when
other grasses are scarce. The valuable. Dan-
thonia grasses are capable of improvement,
and there is no reason why selection should
not make them far superior to many imported
grasses. There is a wide field for experi-
mental and research work amongst our
native grasses.
LUCERNE ON WHEAT FARMS.
A paper read by L. Judd, manager of the
Temora (N.S.W.) experimental farm, at the
conference of the N.S.W. Agricultural
Bureau has been reproduced in the “Agri-
cultural Gazette.” It recommends wheat-
farmers to grow lucerne, and no sounder
advice could be given them, not in N. S.
Wales alone, but in all the wheat-growing
States.
It is a mistake to' suppose that this most
valuable of fodders, whose original home
was Central Asia, will thrive only on rich
alluvial flats. “Thousands of “res of
ordinary wheat lands could be profitably
sown to lucerne,” especially where the so
.is “a good medium-to-light loam, with a tri-
able clay subsoil.” So says Mr. Judd
who points out also (1) that lucerne lias
proved its ability to stand “most severe
droughts”; (2) that “summer rains, which
under ordinary circumstances on the \\iuar
farm are classed as a hindrance and use-
less, can be turned to profit per medium
of lucerne”; (3) that “lucerne provides an
excellent rotation for the renovation ot old
and ‘wheat-sick' cultivation paddocks, and
is of value when sown on paddocks subject
to severe erosion”; and (4) that there is
no better fire-break than a lucerne paddock.
For seeding, Mr. Judd favors well-pre-
pared fallow land, but he is against deep
ploughing in the wheat areas. ‘Preparation
should be made along exactly the same lines
as for wheat, with this exception, that in
the final stages of preparation the mulch
should be made finer and shallower, a greater-
measure of compaction being necessary tor
lucerne.” Xf conditions are favorable, Ajnil
is an excellent month for seeding. The
warmth is in the ground to promote the
most vigorous growth. For spring sowing,
July in the early districts and August-Sep-
ternber in the later districts will be found
to give best 1 results. And the Temora man
recommends the use of the drill. On the
farm that he manages “the tubes are re-
moved from the drill and the gear-forks
regulated so that the machine is in gear with
the hoes just out of, or touching, the ground.
Drill harrows are attached for covering, and
the mixture of seed and superphosphate
sown out of the fertiliser box. Provided the
land has been well prepared, this method ot
seeding will result in an ideal covering of
the seed. .Certainly the light drill harrows
may leave an occasional seed uncovered, but
the' majority will be covered to the requisite
depth, i.c., 4in. Excellent germination has
been secured on every occasion at the farm,
and not one failure has been experienced.
Rate of seeding varies According to soil
and climate. ”In areas similar to Trangie,
good grazing stands may be obtained with
a 21b. seeding. On the average loam in the
typical wheat areas, 41b. t£ 51b. will be
found an excellent- seeding. Application
of super, wall vary likewise; 841 b. to
lewt. is recommended for the Riverina. At
least one cultivation a year is also advised,
and a top-dressing at least every second
year.
GETTING FATS TO MARKET.
“Beefo”: Slipshod methods of handling
fat bullocks on the hoof do more to prevent
our getting satisfactory prices overseas than
even inattention to breeding cattle of the
right quality.
It’s a mistake to draft fat cattle in a yard.
Do the job out on. a drafting camp, and
allow each beast to poke out slowly. Dogs
should never be allowed on the road with
fat beasts. It’s bad handling, and nothing
else, that makes a mob of fats "ring-up” or
rush.
If there is plenty of feed and water on the
stock route, your fats will camp at night with
very little trouble, except in cases where
bus'll cattle are an annoyance. After a
week or so on the road, it is often practic-
able to leave them to their own resources at
night .without the necessity of watching.
They won’t be far off at daylight, even if
they do get up during the night. Bustling
them knocks the condition off; let them feed
along at their own bat.
When the cattle are trucked, send a man
on the stock train; cattle are apt to get
down, and if not attended to some are cer-
tain to smother. A couple of deaths or a
few cot-cases take the cream off the ultimate
returns.
DRIED MEAT.
“Larrapinta”: A first-rate way of preserv-
ing beef is to let the heat of the sun turn
it into what the Afrikanders- call “biltong.”
The job is simplicity itself, but the right
sort of day must be chosen, or good meat
will be ruined. The day must be scorching
hot, with a fairly strong north wind, and
clear and dry—no dust, of course. The
beast should be killed fairly early in the
morning. As soon as the meat has set it
s sliced info long, thin strips, no more than
an inch wide by half an inch thick. These
strips are threaded on lengths of fencing-
wire and hung out in the sun, at right-
_ : “ : A-
angles'" to the wind. At no time of the day
must they come into the slightest shade,
nor must any two strips touch. AH fat
must be trimmed off.
In four to six hours> the biltong should
be done—stiff and dry as leather, and almost
black. It is then taken off. the wires, placed
in calico bags, tied up and hung up in a
cool, dry spot. When required, the strips
are placed in water to soak overnight; they
can then be fried, grilled or used for soup
and stews. Biltong makes a welcome
change; from corned meat, will keep for
months, and comes in .very, handy on bad
killing days, when the meat supply has given
out. Nothing ;out of a tin can compare with
lt ' Bunny, too. can be turned: into a good
stand-by. Young rabbits, about three parts
grown, are split down the back, the back-
bono is removed, and* the fillets are stacks
up to drain a¥ter having been well salted.
Next day they are ' put out. to dry in the
same way as‘the beef. When thoroughly
dry they are put into a small structure of
saplings round which hessian is tacked to
make it blow-fly proof, and smoked for 24
hours in the smoke from an old pan tilled
with smoulderihg pine' or she-oak sawdust.
While being smoked the fillets, which are
strung oh wires, must be kept from >touch-
ing each other, and the outside ones should
be shifted into the centre after 12 hours so
as to give them all an even smoking. r Then
they, too, afe stored by being hung up in
calico bags. These, fillets are tasty; and
make a good substitute for ham,
Even if you do not fan.cy rabbit as,,an
article of diet, it will pay you to turn all
the rabbits you can trap into, fillets, dry
them in the sun without salt, and then
hang them up. in sound sugar-bags. Take
one or more of them, every day, soak and boil
it, and give it to the fowls, or mince it up
dry and uncooked and feed it to them stirred
into the masli. It is quite as good as meat-
meal for them, and costs nothing beyond a
bit. of trouble. * And it pays for the trouble
10 times over.
BUYING A HORSE.
“Mimosa” : Observe the other party's way
of approaching the animal he wants you to
buy. If lie hits it unnecessarily, bustles it
or is roiigh and noisy with it, be on your
guard. There are such things as chronic
dry coughs,:which may only come on at cer-
tain times—perhaps only once or twice daily.
Roaring may or may not. be intermittent.
Get a warranty in writing if you can.
Stabled horse are best inspected early in
the morning before any stiffness, slight lame-
ness or swollen legs have disappeared.
Examine the- horse quietly in the stall. If
his legs ate damp, look further to see it
lotion has been used, or if Wet bandages
have been applied. Watch- for \vind-sucking
and crib-biting, and see if his breathing is
regular or jerky.
Asa test for wind soundness, stand the
horse agaihst a wall, suddenly draw back
your arm, then make as if to punch lnm in
the back ribs. If lie groans you can "cast
him. But you had better get the sellers
consent to your trying this; test—he might
try to test yotir own wind with a punch.
Be especially careful when the seller goes
to lead the animal. Viciousness will be
revealed to a careful observer by the horse
or the manner of the man. Notice whether
the prad walks out brightly or slovenly, or
hangs back on the halter, or comes out
nervous. Be doubtful if the seller keeps pull-
inol at the bit, excites the animal, or touches
him up with whip or step. A seller never
lets a lame horse stand still. In the case of
an old horse the head is lean and line, the
withers are short, the back is swampy, the
lips are shrivelled; the lower lip pendulous.
Ask your, seller to walk the r beast; stand
square behind him and in front on his. re-
turning. Listen to every sound of his feet
when trotted. The beat should be a regular
one two, three, four —not one, two, a slight
pause, and then three and four. After the
trotting, notice how* his wind is.
Look out for scars or blemishes, especially
on the shoulders, back and knees, and on
elbows, for shoe ; balls.V A broken-kneed animal
is likely to fall again some time.
COTTON AS A SIDE-LINE.
“Walkabout”: In Queensland dairy-
farmers are being recommended to grow
cotton as a side-line. Here is one who is
not going to take it on; the' prospects for
cotton after the bounty lias expired do not
appeal to me. , • ... „
Last season’s crop in the Dawson Rtver
valley was practically a failure, through
want of rain before and after the planting
period. This season again the rains came
too late in many areas. The Dawson valley,
an admittedly good district for cotton-grow-
ing under suitable weather conditions, is sub-
ject to droughty seasons. Cotton in its. early
Stages requires plenty qf water; without
it seed will not germinate, and often plant-
ings have to be made two or three times.
A late cotton crop—and the variety favored
by the Cotton Board, Durango, take at least
five months to mature —is apt to catch early
frosts, and when they come there is no
chance of a decent yield.
If cultivated land is good enough to grow
cotton crops in dairying districts, it should
be/ suitable ;for growing fodder for the herd.
Fodder cut for winter feed at least ensures
a cream cheque every month from Straw-
berry, and Cos. Better the , substance • than
the shadow, f Except on rare occasions,
cotton-growing is nothing better than a
gamble. •, But it has this advantage. Un
new, scrub country, one .crop .after clearing
and burning paves, the way for the planting
of Bhodes or other suitable grasses.
' i WHEN FRUIT CROPS FAIL.
“XSA”: Deciduous fruit trees are making
abnormal growth this year in N. S. Wales,
due, no doubt, to the fact that they are
almost barren of fruit. Although the orehard-
ist may confidently anticipate an enormous
crop during the next harvesting season, he
must now determine that his trees shall not
be permitted to run riot. lie should, in
fact, spend most of the time that, in more
fortunate circumstances, would have been
applied to harvesting and packing -to per-
sonal attention to each tree under his
charge. . • .■, •
Growth must be controlled, as far as. is
necessary, by shortening leaders, removing
surplus inside growth, and conducting a
general course of summer pruning. f i bis
will reduce winter operations to a minimum ;
it will also have an 1 important- bearing on
the shape of the trees and on crop prospects.
This work requires considerable skill; allow-
ance must be made to leave amph* foliage
that is so necessary to tree health. Too
much defoliation will check growth.
„ The orchard must be thoroughly well
worked in order that the best advantage may
be taken of this period of barrenness, and
although growers may feel somewhat dis-
couraged, they should be prepared to take
full advantage 1 of what will prove, a blessing
later on. This suggests a further reason for
toil; for spraying must not be
where either fungus or insect pests require
attention. It is true that the fruit in sight
is hardly worth attention; but the trees
must not be allowed to suffer. After all, it s
not their fault.
THE, RUTHERGLEN BUG. ,
“Agrestis” : Many, market-gardeners and
growers of stone fruits are cursing the
Rutlierglen bug this year. In appearance
the bug is like the common house-fly, though
larger. It is dark-brown, narrow-bodied,
has four wings folded flat, carries its beak
horizontally, is active both on foot, and wing
and is provided with strong sucking mouth
parts. > . ,
Use of kerosene emulsion at a strength
of about 1 in 30 is the best method of con-
trol. If a pound of common soap is
boiled in a gallon of water and a gallon of
kerosene is added to the boiling water, no
trouble will be experienced. Spraying should
be done as early as possible— fa. good kill is
more easily obtained in the early stages-:
and should be repeated as it becomes neces-
sary. .‘ ::/ \ ; ,: v ‘ V. /
It is advisable to examine the adjacent
grass and weeds; here the bugs hibernate
and deposit their eggs. If there is any
sign of the bug. burn off as thoroughly as
is practicable’prior to the spraying to ensure
getting no reinfestation from this source.
MUD BUILDINGS.
. “Gumblegubbih”: Where timber is scarce
and dear, and you can’t get bricks unless you
make them on the spot, mud ban be used for
the walls of small sheds, such as the fowl house,
horse-stalls, smithy, storehouses add so forth.
In west Queensland, north of Th.vlungra and
Bulgroo, I saw a squatter’s house of several
rooms that was built w’holly of mud and
straw, and had stood for a great many years.
On Farrar’s Creek,, a tributary of the Dia-
mantina, there is a long wall Bft. high,
built of earth and tallow, which keeps the
flood waters' out from Currawilla homestead.
The. addition of tallow prevents erosion.
Mud buildings are of two kinds, adobe and
pise. The adobe wall is built with huge
sun-dried mud bricks, strengthened with
straw, and is quickly put up. The , only
mortar used is liquid mud. In making the
bricks, get a good patch of .stiff mud or
clay in a gully, shovel it on to a bench,
have the straw alongside for mixing, and
shape square and to the right size with
wooden frames or boxes. Then set in rows
in the sun until they are thoroughly dry.
When roofing, let the eaves go well oyer the
walls.
The pise wall is made with fresh mud,
shovelled straight into position, in : forms
similar to the construction of concrete walls.
A few 12in. by IMn. boards suffice for the
forms. To begin with, peg two on the align-
ment about a foot, apart, and fill the spam
with mud, adding straw as the work pro-
ceeds. Bits of wire netting, hoop-iron, knots
and ends of fencing-wire, and any similar
scraps thrown in make good reinforcing
material. If the , first layer is allowed to set
well before proceeding with the next, a
(Continued on page 26.)


- ' -34- :
S »■■ s
i V' ' ■■
rm._ 4 ... < !
i 1
m • .
«
■
■
Extra comfort with
this heavy sole
Here is one of the best-selling Abbey
Shoes. . . .made in four fittings,
narrow, medium, wide and extra-
wide, for each full and half size.
It has the Abbey arched upper,
which fits over the instep without
any tightness,
ORDER B'i POST: State both width and
size,, and ask, also, for a supply of Abbev
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin),'or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK CALF . . . 33/6
TAN CALF . . . . 33/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY
FPL 263.
Sk
in your engine for
Summer Touring
ď
d
A "peppy” engine
depends on fat, hot
sparks that get full
value out of every
drop of petrol.
Restore the "pep”
of your engine for
holiday touring—
get a new set of
Pyrox Spark Plugs
NOW!
Pyrox Plugs are
'made in Australia
by Bosch methods
and machinery—
you KNOW they're
better!
Manufactured by
PYROX PTY., LTD.
(Formerly Robert Bosch Supply
and Service Co. Pty., Ltd.)
MELBOURNE.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE ** *; n •• •• 34
Contains everything a woman needs to know,
>
fr
ii
Monarch
Craig sAitken
k Wholesale
I Distributors
f Sijdney N.S.W.
s'
#
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,» “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express’-' obtainable from y
VV. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
27] Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
Soon - the calm
of the lagoon
am
m
=¥Si'
and the placid
stillness of sun-
enchanted South
Sea Isles.
O AROTONGA and Papeete, with their languid tropical appeal,
never fail to charm their visitors. Within easy reach of Sydney
by modern Lrans-Pacifxc liners, their fresh, unspoiled loveliness makes
them idealljr suitable for those seeking to escape the crowded
thoroughfares.
HOLIDAY EXCURSIONS AT REDUCED RATES!
247 George Street, Sydney,
Telephone: 87C71.
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
UNION
LINE.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: Central 8393.
couple of sots of boards will do for the whole
building; but if it is desired to build the wall
at once, the forms would have to reach to
the top, requiring 16 to 20 boards, a pair
being added foot by foot as the wall rises,
and these would require stout stakes, wired
at the top to keep them from spreading. It
is better, however, not to be in a hurry with
a pise wall, especially if you are anew hand
at it. By building gradually on firm founda-
tions you avoid the risk of a collapse, save
in forms, and pick up wrinkles as you go.
The pise house, whether large or small,
is one of the best for poultry, as it is cool in
hot weather. If you take dry mud or clay
and reduce it to a stiff batter with a hoe and
shovel, in the same way as mixing mortar,
using as much soapy water as you can get
and adding tallow, you'll have a wall that
can be limed inside the same as bricks.
For the straw, if there is nothing of that
sort going to waste in the field, blady grass
and kangaroo grass are good. In the squat-
ter's house I have mentioned the straw used
was Mitchell grass, cut on the plains.
A common wall in the back country is
made with stones and pug. Any sort of
stones is used, small and big and of any
shape, just as they are picked up. Wooden
fireplaces are usually protected with an
inner lining of this stuff.
QUESTIONS ANSWERER
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to cure sheep- and calf-skins? —
7555.
Sheepskins are exposed to the air and sent
to the market in a dry state. Do not dry
in the sun. Calfskins are well salted by
covering the flesh side with dry salt and
leaving in a heap for a fortnight. When
large numbers of calfskins are cured the
skins are placed in a saturated salt solu-
tion for several days; then drained and
covered with dry salt. For export the salted
skins are dried in a shod.
What is the meaning of the following
terms applied to greasy merino wool: (1)
Full warp, (2) three-quarter warp, (3) a
spinner's wool? —7412.
(1) A wool of full, bold, compact, sound
growth. May be a little irregular in length
and quality (3in. in length and upwards).
(2) \vool possessing the characteristics of
a warp, but lacking length (about 2in. in
length, or slightly more). (3) A wool of
combing length, rather lean in staple, even
in color and quality.
How are figs dried? —7s34.
Select ripe figs and dip them in a boiling
.solution of 4oz. caustic soda and 4 gallons
water for a few seconds, using a wire
basket or perforated tin for the purpose.
I hey may then be submitted to the fumes of
burning sulphur for an hour or more, but
, home-curing this may be omitted, and
the fags put to dry after dipping in the
caustic solution. Dry them on trays in
an airy place, turning as required. When
hard and dry, dip them in a solution of
ooz rocksalt and 1 gallon water, kept at
boiling point; this kills all insects and
imparts a good flavor. Place in small piles
t°. dry again, and turn if desired. When
T 1 and e dry, pack in waxed paper and store in
small tins or boxes, or in screwtop jars.
V y° l \ have a great quantity, write to the
Agriculture Dept., Sydney, for leaflet,
I have some nice sugar-gums about four
yeais old, but a few have been attacked, bp
a loathsome-looking scale, which clusters
thickly in little brownish lumps along the
limbs. If you rub your fingers along the
lumps they exude a fluid like blood. ' The
disease is chiefly on the limbs, but occasionally
a. leaf is affected; it attracts unto, flies and
ivasps. Fluid seeps from the scale, and the
soil underneath is stained purple. Trouble
and remedy? —7623.
It is probably the common Australian
scale insect, Eriococcus coriaceus. This can
leadily be controlled by spraying with mis-
cible white spraying oil, such as Alboleum
or Yolck, or else miscible red spraying oil
if more readily obtainable, applied at the
rate of 1 gallon to 50 gallons of water One
application now should be effective, but a
second application may be necessary in about
six weeks time. It should be applied in
the cool of the evening.'
I J 1 L H °' W «**e passion-fruit plants grown?
7 I }. fwitabie soil? (3) flow long after
planting do vines begin to bear? (4) Mar-
*J n $- A -\ J 5) When is the ripening
season there?— 767B.
(1) On trellises in rows, somewhat as
grape-vines are planted. The rows which
north and s °uth, are often
placed 10ft. apart, and plants spaced 12ft
fP art I” the rows. (2 ) A free, rich, sandy
loam with plenty of organic matter in its
composition. The plants need manuring
heavily to remain productive. (3) if grow-
ing reasonably well, the vines begin to bear
at about 18 months after planting, and in-
crease year by year up to about the fifth
year (4) Owing to the restricted uses for
the fruit, the market seems readily glutted.
Ot course the uses, could and should be ex-
tender* (5) From about February to
August. The first crop, February to March •
second, June to July, or August.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Foley” : An all-too-common saying among
farmers who breed a few calves is “I don’t
want a bull—he’d break my fences ” This
is a short-sighted policy. If you have
oi c mary iabbit>proof wire-netting boundary
fences, attach to the top of the rabbit-
netting a two-foot strip of marsupial-netting.
I\o bull will trouble a fence that he cannot
S< e through. Treat gates similarly.
• , 1 : dairymen are sometimes disap-
pointed to find that their cows refuse to
touch a prepared salt-lick. This can usually
be pvercome by mixing a small quantity of
the lick with two or three times its own
volume of either pollard or linseed-oil meal.
As the cows get accustomed to it each
succeeding lot will need a smaller propor-
(ion of meal until there is only enough to
encourage the cows to eat from two to
four ounces per head per day.
, “Marsh”: Concrete floors in the cowbails
if too smooth on the surface are apt to have
Strawberry slipping and sliding all over
the place. If acid suitable for making the
concrete surface rough is not available, get
hold of a cold-chisel or an ordinary pick
with a hardened point and do the job. A
slight uneven surface on the concrete will
allow the cows to get a foothold.
“Pine Scrub”: Tell “Bloss” there is no
need to go to the expense of cutting the
variegated thistles when his lambs contract
scabby-mouth (B. 23/12/’31). Let him
watch them closely, and on the first appear-
ance of the trouble yard the lot and dip
their noses in a solution of carbolic sheep-
dip or permanganate of potash. In. a week
those affected will be cured and the antiseptic
will act as a preventive. The parasite is
easily scotched but must be tackled early.
“The Breaker”: A scum sometimes
appears on horses’ eyes (the causes are
various) and blindness may occur if it is
not treated in time. Make a paper funnel
and blow boracic acid into the eye ; if this
fails, try powdered Milestone. Don’t take
the advice of would-be bush vets, who advo-
cate the use of powdered glass. Powdered
alum, vinegar and fine salt are local remedies
I've seen successfully used.
“Teamster” : A man driving a team ought
to know what distance he must travel with
a given width of machine to cover an acre.
It can be ascertained by dividing the width
of cut of machine in feet into 660. Thus
a six-foot harvester travels 110 chains to
do an acre, a 10-foot machine 66 chains,
and so on.
“Dai R.” : The springs of disused rabbit-
traps make good automatic gate-closers;
once adjusted, they last for years. Cut the
spring so that both ends are level and
attach horizontally to gate-post and upright
with bolts or screws. Opening the gate
forces the spring down, achieving the
desired result of self-closing when the hand
is removed.
“Dimon”: The pig-trough that is cut out
of a log and set on a couple of stout cross-
pieces is as good as any. It costs only
the work of chopping it out —with a mor-
tising-axe and a small adze—and if that is
done neatly, with sloping ends and no sharp
corners, it is no more trouble to clean than
metal. A large hole is bored through the
bottom at one end, stopped with a long
wooden plug, and a drain-pipe or some get-
aw;fy should be provided from underneath.
“Stingers” ; Light crops and fruit-flies are
worrying N.S.W. orchardists; but the flies
need not worry them much. Unless they
have something to keep them breeding dur-
ing the summer months, the larvae will hatch
out in vain—should die out, in fact. Remove
any fruit that will assist to maintain the
cycle—especially in orchards that will soon
offer citrus fruits for infection. Poison sprays,
traps and the other standard methods of
fly-control, such as boiling infected fruit,
must not be relaxed because harvesting is
at an end.
“Jack Point”: Any breeder looking for
improvement through crossing is liable to
strike trouble if he proceeds beyond the
first cross. Never should the hybrids be
used for breeding. One of the most popu-
lar crosses is that of Berk, and Tam.
pigs. The first cross results in excellent
baconers, but a lot of cockics who imagine
they are making the cross are simply crossing
mongrel with mongrel, and not getting any-
where. Unless the breeder thoroughly under-
stands his subject, he would be well advised
to leave this first-crossing alone, and to con-
centrate on mating a pure-bred sire with the
best females available; then lie cannot fail
to improve his flock or herd. To the man
who has purehreds, the best advice is to
seek a sire of the same breed, but of different
strain, from a breeder as far away as
possible.
“X5A” : To gather the maximum crop of
honey you must keep as large a force of
bees as is possible, and keep them work-
ing contentedly during the flow The
beekeeper’s part is to place the apiary
where it can gather the greatest supply of
nectar. Sound judgment in this respect is
of greater value than even equipment and
locality.
“Kirk”: “B. Sure’s” notes (B. 23/12/’31)
are good, but he omitted one thing that
should be on every farm medicine shelf,
spirits of turpentine; the genuine article’
not the mineral substitute used by painters.
An old vet. declares that of all the anti-
septics that have come and gone in 50 years
turps, still holds the lead as a first-aid
dressing for cuts and wounds on stock and
man. Rubbed in it takes the pain from a
bruise. It should not be used on .suppurat-
ing wounds, however; carbolic oil is the
best dressing for these.
“Wandi” : When pulling out a .stump with
chain and team only, hook the chain round
the bottom of the stump, not the top, with
the hook on the opposite side to the team,
and pass the chain over the top of the
stump. This gives a leverage and increases
the pulling power. A better way. with a
little grubbing, is to get the chain round a
big root, and pass over the top of the
stump as before.
“Mulgo”: Sunflower-seed makes a first-
class addition to the poultry ration. Each
Plant bears a great quantity of seed and
it is not necessary to shell it. Throw out
the whole head, and the fowls will pick off
the seed for themselves. I have fed laying
hens for weeks on this seed, varied only
with scraps from the table.
“Karaway”: When putting on iron roofs,
paint the parts where one sheet laps over
another, and the roof will last many years
longer.
“Dingo Flat”:_ When you are putting
down galvanised-iron troughing the joints
can be made water-tight by using strips cut
from old car-tubes. By putting a rail each
side of your troughs and one in the centre
an d about two feet above, you will prevent
stock from blundering over and damaging
them.
Mimosa : After suckling a foal a mare
is naturally muscle-soft. She should neither
be heavily loaded nor driven hard for some
time.
“Bill R.”: When a split opens at the
i ini of a horses hoof, at times it will gradu-
ally extend till it reaches the hair above
■Then, the horse goes lame. To stop the
extension of the split sear deeply into the
hoof at the upper end of the crack with
a red-liot iron. Unless burnt too deeply it
will not hurt the horse, and the iniurv
afterwards will grow out. J '


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for tlie service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Governess (22), Q’land, C. of E., desires position
in country; all subjects but music. Assist house
duties. Refs. —7680.
Two strong young men (19), Sydney, want employ-
ment on station or farm. No previous exp., but
willing to learn.—767s.
Man (30), N.S.W., married, one child, 15 years’
exp. sheep, cattle and general farming, wants posi-
tion. Wife, light household duties. —7685.
Ex-naval officer, handy man and gardener, at
present employed only three days a month, will give
services till noon, daily, in return for furnished
room. —Refs.—76s2.
Journalist, Q’land, certificate of proficiency (Lon-
don), member A.J.A., desires position anywhere, but
preferably in south. —7674.
Accountant and secretary (24), Vic., six years’
banking exp., seeks permanent position anywhere
where initiative can be exercised and there is
scope for advancement. Refs. —7630.
Englishman (25), Vic., nine years exp. radio
mechanic and salesman, holds A.O.P. certificate, can
type, seeks position anywhere.—762o.
To buy “Not without Dust and Heat,” by Weston
Martyr.—76ss.
To buy handbook of 11-h.p. Citroen (about 1926).
—7653.
To buy two or three Morse recording instruments.
—7637.
To buy “The Other Side of the Lantern” and
“The Cradle of the Deep” (Treves), and “The
Hound of the Baskervilles” (D0y1e).—7643.
To buy drawing of Solomon’s temple.—7676.
To exchange H.M.V. gramophone, cost £65, for
piano or organ. —7686.
Words of verse “Tall Man’s Tale,” by Henry
Lawson. —7633.
English words of “Le Potpourri d’Alain Ger- .
bault” and “Monotonously Rings the Little Bell.”
—7621.
Words of verse containing the line “His wits
were tangled in the wine.”- —7479.
Whereabouts of James Reid, employed one time
Kyogle railway extension. Solicitor, Scotland, and
brother in S.A. inquiring.—7644.
Information Sought.
(1) Did the first Maoriland Rugby team
to visit the British Isles play Scotland at
Glasgow or elsewhere? (2) On the same
tour they were beaten in Wales. W(G> it
by an international side, i.e., Wales,
a team such as Cardiff or Swansea ? —7550.
(1) They played Scotland at Edinburgh,
on Nov. 18, 1905, winning by 12 to 7. (2)
They were defeated by the Welsh represen-
tative team at Cardiff, on Dec. 16, 1905, by
3 to nil. This was the only loss on the
tour.
How may I enter the Post Office as a tele-
graphist? Do I have to pass an exam,? If
so, where can I obtain particulars? —72B4.
Recruitment is from among officers already
in the; service who join as telegraph mes-
sengers and .subsequently qualify in tele-
graphy. Candidature at a telegraph mes-
senger’s examination is available to lads who
have reached their 14th but not their 16th
year.
What is the difference between a
charged and an overprinted stamp? —7s72.
In a surcharge, the face value of the
stamp is altered. Examples of surcharges
are found on the two recent issues of Com-
monwealth stamps when the lid. was sur-
charged 2d. and the 4|d. was surcharged sd.
An overprint is employed when a stamp is
to be used for a purpose other than that
for which it was originally intended. Com-
monwealth stamps were overprinted “N.-W.
Pacific Islands” for use in that territory.
Stamps overprinted “Airmail, 0.5.,” “War
Tax” and “Auckland Exhibition, 1913” are
further instances of overprints.
I wish to take a comprehensive course of
instruction in wireless. (1) Where could
I obtain such instruction? (2) Particulars
of course? —7sBo.
(1) Marconi School of Wireless, 97
Clarence-street, Sydney. (2) The school
provides courses for engineer (five years),
technician (two years), operator (two
years, talking-picture operator (one year),
mechanic (one year). Broadcasting-studio
management and microphone technique are
also included in the curriculum.
Formula for luminous paint? —7sl6.
One hundred parts by weight of stron-
tium carbonate, 30 parts sulphur, two parts
sodium carbonate, one-half part sodium
chloride, one-fifth part manganese sulphate.
The materials are mixed and heated for
about one hour to about 2372 deg. Fahr.,
and then exposed for some time to a mercury
lamp, powerful incandescent gas or bright
sunlight.
(1) What is the difference in the mark-
ings of the male and female pale-headed
(Q’land) rosella? (2) What material should
be supplied to canaries and finches at nest-
ing-time ? —7507.
(1) The female pale-headed rosella has
the same markings as the male, but is not
so richly colored. It is a slightly smaller
bird, and has a smaller beak. (2) Dried
grass of different kinds and small feathers,
bark fibre or almost anything of the kind.
The birds will pick out the required
materials. Bird-dealers can supply almost
complete artificial nests, the bird only hav-
ing to add the lining.
What causes a loud hum in a three-valve
radio set? —7518.
May be any one of many causes. In an
electric receiver it may be due to an im-
perfect filtration of the rectified supply, bad
screening, etc.; in which case it is usually
picked up by the detector and amplified in
the audio stages. Hum may also originate in
some external source, as in a near-by power
transformer, dynamo, fan, or other electrical
machine. Again it may originate at the
transmitting station, and is then only heard
when the receiver is tuned to that particular
station. If the hum is at all times present,
it probably originates in the receiver, but it
intermittent it is almost certainly due to
some external cause.
I wish to place my son in the Q’land
Agricultural Bank, (1) What age must
he be? (2) Will he have to pass any
exams.? —7483.
Appointments are made from persons
already in the State public service, or who
pass the entrance exam, held in conjunction
with the junior public uni. exam. 1 here
are no vacancies on the bank’s staff.
What do Sydney stamp-dealers pay for
entire sheets of Australian Commonwealth
commemorative stamp iosues? —7579.
Most dealers are well stocked and will
not offer much over face value, especially
in the case of the lower values, ( omplete
sheets of the lid. W.A. centenary and 6d.
Kingsford Smith air-mail, showing re-entry,
command higher prices. Write to W ilcox,
Smith and Co., Liverpool-strect, Dunedin,
M.L., or submit them to C. F. Laseron, 19
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, for auction.
How can I rid my garden of slugs? —
7216. . . . ,
One pound of calcium arsenate is mixed
with 91b. of bran, and the whole made into a
stiff mash with molasses and water. Small
pieces are distributed along the rows of
affected plants at dusk.
(1) How can the palms Cocos plumosus
and Cocos flexuosa be distinguished? (2)
Is it correct that both of these palms have
recently been re-named: if so, what are they
called new? (3) What authority under-
took the re-naming? —7so6.
(1) C. flexuosa has shorter fronds than
C. plumosa, grows up more quickly and is
generally a rather weaker palm. (2) and
(3) Both palms were put down by
Dr. Beccari (the leading authority in the
world on palms, until his death a few years
ago) as forms of Cocos romanzoffiana . The
same authority divided the palms previously
known by gardeners, nurserymen and botan-
ists as Cocos into several distinct genera,
retaining Cocos only for the common
cocoanut-palm. Cocos plumosa and its
allied forms were changed to Arecastrum
and most of them put down as forms of
A. romanzoffianum.
Particulars and date of opening of the
S.A. broadcasting station Crystal Brook? —
7567.
It will open shortly. It will be known as
regional relay station SSK, and will operate
on a wave-length of about 472 metres
(635 K.C.), with a power of 7.5 k.w. as
measured in the aerial.
(1) Does the Emu Plains (N.S.W.) prison
farm supply all the N.S.W. prisons with
vegetable produce, or is it simply a training
farm? (2) What class of prisoners are sent
to Emu Plains? (3) Is any effort mad/e to
obtain for prisoners employment with farmers
upon their release? —7456.
(1) Agricultural operations are carried
out at all gaols in N.S.W., and vegetables
required for prisoners’ rations are largely
raised on gaol farms. (2) Persons who have
not been in prison previously and who are
under the age of 25. -(3) Yes, and many
young men are placed.
How to preserve prawns? —72sB.
Trim the prawns, remove feelers, etc.,
and pack into wide .screw-top jars as closely
as possible. Make up a solution of salty
water with about 1 teaspoon salt to the
pint, boil it, and when partly cooled, pour
on to the prawns. Set the lids in place
with new rubbers and stand the jars in
a boiler of cold water with straw or paper
packing to prevent knocking, but leave the
lids loose for steam to escape. Place over
the fire, and when the water in the jars
has boiled for a few minutes, screw down
the lids and remove from the fire. Tighten
the lids and stand upside down for a few
hours; if there is ho leakage, store in a
cool place. If the jars leak, boil up again
and fasten so that they do not leak. If
further cooking is liked, it may be done on
opening the jars.
(1) What salary does the Administrator
of the Northern Territory receive? (2)
Have any of the N.T. official. ,< been put
on a higher grade so that the 20 p.c.
reduction does not affect their salary? (3)
Was the inspector of police made a
superintendent and his salary not reduced
20 p.c.? (4) Has the superintendent of
police the longest service in the N.T. police?
—7295.
(1) £l2OO p.a., plus entertaining allow-
ance of £5O, subject to deductions prescribed
by the Financial Emergency Act 1931. (2)
No. (3) He was reclassified as superin-
tendent as from June 12, 1931. The maxi-
mum of the salary scale of the office was
raised from £612 to £648 per annum. The
officer occupying the position received no
immediate increase as a result of the re-
classification. (4) No. The present super-
intendent of police was appointed to the
Northern Territory service on October 23,
1911. Mounted-Constable J. T. Turner, who
was appointed on the Ist May, 1907. has
the longest service.
What iverc the circumstances of the
“Liberator frauds’’ ? —7556.
The Liberator Building Society, formed
in 1868 on the Starr-Bowkett system to
finance the building of homes, became, under
the management of Jabez Balfour, purely an
investing company, with no special relation
to building. Its liabilities, which amounted
at the time of the crash, in 1892. to over
£8,000,000, were incurred in supporting other
more or less shady and shaky businesses in
which the directors were interested—among
them the London and General Bank, the
failure of which in the same year precipi-
tated the crisis. There was a deficiency o
over £5,000,000. Balfour fled to bouth
America, was extradited and sentenced to 11
years’ imprisonment.
lam told that wealth is unevenly dis-
tributed in England that, if £lO were to be
divided among ten people, one man would
take £9 and. the other nine £1 among them.
Is"it correct? —7571. .
That’s equivalent to saying that JO p.c.
of the national income of the U.K. goes to
10 p.c. of the people. Recent statistics
show that 00.7 p.c. of the income returned
for 'taxation goes to 4,649,000 people getting
between £l2O and £lO,OOO a year, with an
average of £560, 7.5 p.c. to 8750 people
averaging £25,000 a year, and 1.8 p.c. to
543 people averaging £lOO,OOO a year. 1 his
accounts for a little over 10 p.c. of the
population. Presumably (but by no means
certainly) the other 90 p.c. who don t send
in income-tax returns have incomes ot less
than £l2O p.a., but even if their earnings are
averaged at £4O a year their share is over
30 p.c. of the total of individual incomes.
Has any citizen of N.S.W. (not being a
policeman) power to arrest mid oonfine a
malefactor if no policeman is available .-
The law empowers any person to arrest
a felon in the commission of a felony. He
may also arrest without a warrant where
he is sure that a felony is about to be com-
mitted in his presence. A private person
may also arrest for an affray or breach ot
the peace committed in his presence, and
whilst it is continuing, but may not arrest
on suspicion, no matter how well grounded.
After arrest he should without delay hand
the offender over to the police.
What books —price and where obtained
do yon recommend for a new alderman in a
N.S.W. country town council? 70-o,
The volumes incorporating the Local Gov-
ernment Act, 1919, and Amending Acts and
the Ordinances made thereunder, obtainable
at Government Printing Office, 19s. 9d. the
lot.
(1) What is the deepest coalmine in Aus-
tralia? (2) How does it compare with the
deepest coalmine in the world?— 74Bl.
(1) Balmain (Sydney); depth of shaft
to coal scam, 2886 ft. (2) The deepest coal-
mine is in Belgium ; 3810 ft.
(1) What was the cast in the first produc-
tion of “The Skin Game” in Melbourne. (2)
Did Oscar Asche ever appear in Melbourne
King's Theatre? —7597.
(i) Oscar Asche, Arthur Styan, John
Horde, Fred Francis, Beaumont Collins,
Mildred Cottell, Doris Champion, Mary Mac-
gregor, George Blunt; Roy Workman, Jessie
Page and others. (2) Yes, in The Skm
Game” and “Iris” during 1924.
My aquilcgias have just finished flowering.
What should be done to them, and how long
do they live? —7688.
If seed is not required cut off the long
stems and give the plant a helping of stable
manure or superphosphate. You may get
another batch of blooms in late autumn ; it
not, the liberal treatment will fortify the
plants for next spring. Properly tended,
aquilegias will bloom at least five years.
Can agapanthus lilies be grown from the
seedpods left after the flowers have died,
if not, how are they propagated? —767o.
They are not raised from seed. Divide up
the clumps after the flowering is over and set
sections in position where they are to grow
permanently. Sections planted in March
will flower in December.
(1) How to strike rose cuttings? (2)
Name of a book on the subject? —76sS.
(1) Cuttings of last year’s growth are most
suitable. Remove all the eyebuds but one
and plant immediately in soil containing a
big proportion of sand. Most suitable time
is when the sap is dormant (between Feb-
ruary and August). (2) “Rose Growing
Made Easy,” by J. G. Lockley (65.).
(1) Number of soldiers sent from Aus-
tralia in the Great War? (2) Number that
reached the firing line? (3) Number of war
pensions being paid? —76o7.
(1) 331,781 members of the A. 1.1. em-
barked from Australia. (2) Can’t say, but
the proportion was higher than in the case
of most forces, since Australia supplied com-
paratively few base units. (3) At June 30,
1929, 272,631.
I am a saw miller. I have been cutting
shafts for sulkies and carts out of spotted-
gum planks with a band-saw, but would pre-
fer to make bent ones. (Jan this be done
without an expensive plant? —7s6l.
A cheap outfit can be constructed by build-
ing a hardwood steam box, 12in. square in-
side, reasonably close-fitted, and long enough
to hold the shafts. Into this box deliver
exhaust steam from the mill engine. High
pressure is not necessary. Experience will
soon show when the timber is steam-satu-
rated, in which state it is easily forced
into shape on a platform between adjust-
able pegs. This should be placed in the
shade,' so that drying may be gradual. Use
straight-grained timber for shafts.
In “Sea Fever” John Masefield refers to
a “tall ship.” Is the adjective dinkum
sailor's lingo? What is a “long shipl
7690.
The adjective was m common use among
seamen till sail was superseded, being a
corruption of an earlier term, ‘ taunt,
which, applied to a ship, meant that she had
lofty masts. If a sailor refers to a long
ship” it is a gentle hint that Ins glass is
empty.
Information Supplied.
7078. —To construct water-skis : Sharply-
tapered floats are made from 26g. galvanised-
iron, Bft. long, 15in. beam, with a piece of
22g iron dividing each into two compart-
ments lengthwise, being continued below the
hull as a keel 4ft. long and 6in. deep. To
the centre of the keel are attached hori-
zontally hinged plates, 6in. x 6in., one on
either side, with stops on the fin to prevent
them from going, beyond the vertical when
the ski moves backward. The whole struc-
ture is reinforced by means of 26g. bulkheads
soldered inside. The foot is slipped into
a binding like that of a snow-ski. which must
be so made that the foot can be kicked free
in an instant if the user is upset. A long-
shafted paddle is used for steering and stop-
ping.
Brief Answers.
K.A.I >.: "Hoyle Up-to-date” gives a
number of variations, but none move suitable for
party play than straight auction bridge....
0.W.5.: Can’t trace it anywhere. If you can give
any clue, we’ll try again. .. . A.C.L.: Write Australian
Trade Commissioner, 25 Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
M.L. supplies the only oyster product which
has found any favor here in soup and sandwich
paste form. ...A.S.: Write James Sandy and Co.,
26S George-street, Sydney... .C.W.K.: Write Will
Andrade, 173 Pitt-street, Sydney... . A.A.: Write
Ministry of Railways, Nanking, China.... F.E.:
Your husband would have to join in a deed
of separation. Desertion as a ground for divorce
would have to be for three years and upwards with-
out reasonable excuse. You are not required to keep
him, but could obtain a maintenance order against
him. .. . K.L.8.: It is Hindustani and literally trans-
lated reads “My heart is torn with sorrow to learn
that the sahib is ill”. . . .M.W.A.: The two stamps
are 1907 British Guinea, worth Id. each. . . .N.C.H.:
Write to A. Faroe, fish agent, Sydney Municipal
Maikets. A machine for making and sealing tins is
obtainable from J. Heine and Son, Alien-street,
Leichhardt, Sydney... .8.D.: Idriess’s “Prospecting
for Gold” is recommended. Information as to taking
up claims can be obtained by inquiry at the local
Warden’s office. . . .E. 8.: Write to the Superintendent,
.Royal Botanic Gardens, Peradenya, Cey10n....A.A.:
“How to Swim,” by Helmrich (25.) ; “Swimming,”
by Holbein (Is.) ; “Manual of Swimming and Div-
ing,” by Scammell (Is.) .. . . Y.W.M.C.: Not advis-
able to concentrate on passion fruit growing in the
Stanthorpe district owing to uncertainty of tem-
perature. Most of the soldiers’ blocks would be
unsuitable... .Y.L.: (1) and (4) It is possible to
take a complete course at various Sydney hairdressing
colleges. (2) From three to six months, according
to ability; about £25. (3) Daytime attendance is
necessary.... G.C.: Under the Reduction of Rents
Act of October 9, 1931, rent is reduced by 221
per cent. The Act will cease to have effect on
December 31, 1932. .. .E.W.T.: In view of the wife’s
property, probably not a full pension, but a slightly
reduced amount. Ask the local C.P.S. for application
forms. .. .ILT.E.: It is a condition of scoring
repique that all the player’s declarations must have
been admitted to be good. ... J.H.: (1) He may will
his property as he pleases, but the children can
apply to the Equity Court for provision to be made
for them out of their father’s estate. (2) The
position would not be altered by the second marriage
except as to the second wife’s claim for maintenance.
. ...J.W.K.: (1) He holds the chair till the election
of his successor at the next annual meeting. (2)
It is usual to have the minutes passed first, but
even if this were not done, there is no reason why
it should invalidate the election of the chairman.
.... M.G.McC.: The cause is evidently of bacterial
origin. Spray the cage with copper sulphate, one
part in 50,000 of water. Particularly wash the
drinking vessels, and soak any damp places in
the aviary, especially round the drinking vessels.
Give the birds in their drinking water daily liquor
arsenicalis, I-100th of a grain per bird, and sulphate
of quinine, about l-50th of a grain per bird. A chemist
will work out the proportions. .. .R.G.K.: The
Crump spreader, Crump Machinery, Ltd., 12 Carlisle-
street, St. Hilda (Vic.), S 2 H.E.M.G.: In the
absence of any agreement to the contrary, copyright
is deemed to be reserved to the author.... J.H. I.:
(1) Must serve five years’ apprenticeship to qualify
for junior engineer on ship. (2) Positions are diffi-
cult to obtain. (3) All cos. about the same. (4)
Qualify and then apply for a job. . . .W. : The disease
has recently been investigated by the Research
Council but the cause has not been discovered. It
appears to be associated with contagious pustular
dermatitis, and the theory that it is associated
with mineral nutrients is not now favored....
K.J.0.: Nel-1 a and Co., 400 Elizabeth-street; J. 11.
Williams, 238 Little Lonsdale-street; and Pope and
Co., 231 Latrobe-street —all Melbourne. .. .C.C.D.:
(1) For pilots, 18 to 25 years ; other ranks, 18 to
30 years. (2) Write Secretary, Air Board, Defence
Dept., Melbourne (Vic.) ..... J.W.C.: Waratahs will
grow in the Young (N.S.W.) district in any soil
that will suit roses. Plants are obtainable from
nurserymen in the autumn at 2s. 6d. each....
11.A.L.: It is not known why men go bald more
frequently than women. None of the remedies you
suggest is likely to help. Baldness is often a
matter of heredity... .A.E.8.: Perhaps the fault lies
more with the disease than the doctor. Gland
troubles take a considerable time to clear up in
many cases. ...S.M.: Get an experienced tattooer
to do it if you are set on it. But you’ll be sorry
later. .. .L.M.L.: (1) West coast of Malay Peninsula.
(2) Capital of Kedah. (3) Origin of name un-
known. Etymology doubtful. Possibly from Malay
“alur,” channel of a river, and Sanskrit “setia,”
loyalty, constancy... .F.C. A.: (1) O Sakura San.
(2) O Y T uki San. (3) The Honorable Miss Snow.
(4) Not Japanese; probably Chinese and untrans-
latable unless the ideographs are supplied....
W.F.P.: (1) An operation will cure gallstones.
(2) Have never heard of carrot water being used.
. ...5.J.8.: An employee of a farmer who, instead
of receiving wages, gets a share of the profits, is
liable to pay unemployment relief tax on his share.
. ...W.K.M.: Write Officer-in-charge, Fisheries
Branch, Chief Secretary’s Dept., Bridge-street,
Sydney W.R.K.: If No. 5 ram is working on its
longest stroke, the overflow should be sufficient to
work a No. 4 ram or certainly sufficient to work a
No. 3. By applying an Bft. fall to the additional
ram, a No. 3 should augment the existing supply
by about 1000 gallons in 24 hours, and a No. 4
by about 1800 gallons. The delivery pipe from
the additional ram can be led into existing delivery
pipe from No. 5 ram at the nearest point....
S. : See Gould’s “Medical Dictionary” (525.,
post free) and Gould’s “40,000 Medical Words”
(12s. 6d., post free), Angus and Robertson
T. : (1) In the 1916 conscription referendum
members of the A.I.F. voted 72,399 for and 58,894
against; in the 1917 referendum the A.I.F. voting
was 103,789 for and 93,910 against. (2) Lawrence’s
“Diabetical Life” (145., post free), and “ABC of
Diabetes” (6s. 4d., post free). .. . C.E.J.: Any book-
seller will supply you with a list of books, but if
possible get an experienced man to give you a hand.
..R.8.: Write K. Pribil, Hardy’s Chambers, De
Mestre-piace, Sydney... .E.M.8.: It would be per-
missible for one of the characters to recite a few
verses, but not the complete poem. It would not be
advisable to design the playlet to be used as an
advertisement for a particular co. No reason why
the scene should not be laid in a shearing-shed....
D M.: The only aircraft engine designed and built
in Australia is “Harkness Hornet,” built by Harkness
and Hillier, Five Dock, Sydney A.T.G.: Spvin-
sure is regarded as a sound sheep district. Grass
seed is prevalent in those parts and its avoidance
in wool calls for special management M. 8.:
N.S.W. law prohibits us from furnishing the infor-
mation 8.C.G.: No information available....
E.A.: (1) The returning officer is entitled to open
postal votes received after 9 a.m. on the day of
election. He is required by law to lock up and
seal the ballot-papers in the presence of witnesses
if he leaves the polling-place any time before the-
declaration of the poll (Many others mailed.)


ALIEN CORN
By G. M. Turnbull
CHAPTER XXVII.
A SAVAGE exultation throbbed within
Huntley. In a flash the thick air
seemed to clear, his vague fear of
vaguer peril vanished. Here was something
tangible with which he could come to grips.
With infinite caution Maragi slunk from
the shadow of the hut. He stood in the
open street as though undecided. His lean,
sinewy figure stood out like a grotesque
etching in the pale witchery of the moon-
light. Quickly, furtively, his lowered head
moved from side to side and again its re-
semblance to a snake’s head struck Huntley
swiftly. There was something horribly
sinister ..and repellent about the beast;
Something inhuman, diabolical, infinitely
vile.
A thought flashed in on Huntley. The
fellow was bound for Nataroa, there to
confer with or instruct his fear-ridden
kitchen confederates. He would receive
a warm welcome. The police would shoot
first and
Maragi was off! Swiftly, silently, head
down and elbows in, he was scuttling along
the path that led into the jungle.
Like hounds hot oh the scent, yet making
no sound, Huntley and the sei-geant trailed
him. A half-uttered exclamation came from
the white man. The quarry had swung
away from the sea; he was heading into tin;
forest. Nataroa was Hot his destination,
after all!
Giant forest trees towered up, on both
sides of the tiack; silver moonrays cast a
pallid glimmer over the foliage. The air,
vibrating with the hum of insects, was
thick, clammy, hard to breathe and charged
w,itli sickly odors.
Max-agi the sorcerer was a black shadow,
shifting and flicking as it scurried along
the winding, dappled path; a phantom-like
blur flittering through the trees. He slowed
down, pulled up, halted.
Gibara gripped Huntley’s elbow, mumbled
a. warning and they effaced themselves be-
hind the swelling butt of a karyota palm.
I’liere was something significant, of wari-
ness, of stealth about Maragi. He was bent
almost double; lie was on the ground.
Huntley rubbed his eyes, bewildered, per-
plexed. Darkness confronted him—a blank,
cavernous void. Maragi had vanished.
“This way, Taubada.” Gibara’s whisper
impinged on Huntley’s eardrums with
penetrating clearness. “This way—make
Up sound.”
Gibara w’as on his stomach, worming, his
way through the thick undergrowth. Huntley
hesitated* then dropped on all fours and
followed in the track the native was making.
Some miracle of instinct was guiding Gibara
—whither Huntley knew not. Doggedly,
painfully, he crawled after. His brain was
no longer; capable of ordered thought.
The next, second he was intensely and
vividly awake. Somewhere ahead a faint
light, ci’ept timidly and he /ivks aware bf
a new sound—a thin, : musical tinkle—a
ripple, of water splashing over a pebbly bed.
“With caution, Taubada,” Gibara breathed
hoarsely. “Make .no sound. Here :is that
which we seek.”
Huntley dragged himself tb the sergeant’s,
side. He felt Gibara’s calloused hand over
his inouth enjoining silence. Body and
muscles tense, hex peered through an:, opening
in: the intervening wall of gi'eenery cleared
for him by Gibara. For a second his eyes
Were dazzled by the glimmer'-of moonlight
on: the running creek waters/ He craned
his neck forward as his vision slowly cleared.
“Great Scott!” he ejaculated.
For an instant he felt himself swaying,
and horror laid cold hands upon him. By
the bank of the creek an evil, menacing
shape crouched low, swaying back and forth,
mouthing meaningless words. A moonbbam
lit up the face, painting it in a silver light.
“What the hell is he up to?” Huntley
demanded. His eyes, startled, questioning,
iixet Gibara’s. The sei’geant’s teeth were
chattering. Trickles of sweat ran down a
face gone suddenly livid. Fear, born of
superstitions generations old, was clutching
at his heart.
. .“See, Taubada !” he croaked, “See with
your eyes, Taubada—and shoot! Shoot,
ife'st in the fulness of time, he of the One
Eye should slay us also.”
“Fool!” Huntley gi'ated, “What is there
for my eyes to see? What is there save”
“Shoot, Taubada! Shoot to ki11... we are
beholding fearful things.” . 1
Huntley felt himself shaking as if under
the shock Of a body blow. Then a fierce
excitement tightened his throat in a strang-
ling grip. What he had taken for a piece
of driftwood in the creek bed he now saw
was a diminutive human figure, a sort of
ill-made doll moulded in red clay. The
face had been cnidely painted white; a wig
of dark hail 1 , fluffy hair, was gummed to
the head; a wisp of white calico represented
calico. And over it, like a demon from
the Pit. Maragi of the One Eye crouched
on his haunches, waved his arms, raving,
slavering, cursing* conducting an infamous
ritual. There was a blood-red smear on
the water as the doll slowly disintegrated
under the action of the current. Huntley
choked. It was a grotesque caricature of
a white-woman, that doll! It was diaboli-
cally ihade to represent Marian Durrant!
A cold sweat of fear gathered on Hunt-
ley’s forehead; a great horror began to
envelop him, paralysing his nerve .'centres.
“Shoot, Taubada!” Gibara’s voice was an
indistinct whisper. “Make an , end of him.
See how the water • washes away the image,
and consider how the yoiing sinabada is
being gathered into the Great Darkness.”
Instantly Huntley’s brain cleared and a
fierce activity possessed hixn. His hand
sopght for and closed on the butt of his
automatic. Silently he drew the weapon
from its holster. His body grew taut. He
compressed his lips and braced every muscle
of his body to spring. The next instant he
flung himself • forward. Maragi’s slavering
jaws fell apart. A startled yelp came from
him and he sprang to his feet, snarling, and
spitting like an animal caught in ' a trap.
Huntley towered over him, white with
an anger he could not master. Maragi
screeched Avildly, hysterically, when he saw
the weapon in tfie white inan’s hand.
“Shoot the black - cow, sail !’•’' Gibara en-
joined in English. He moved.to Huntley’s
side with an uncertain assumption of his
old-'swagger. He was,grinning now, amiably,
like a man from whom a great fear has
been suddenly lifted.
Huntley thumbed back the. safety catch
and levelled the pistol. Maragi screamed.
“It Would be counted tome for good if I
destroyed you as I would a mad dog,”
Huntley rasped.
Mamgi’s dips were writhing in fear and
terror. Hiis limbs twisted in convulsive
movements. Huntley took careful aim and
“BLUE NORTH/’ “The Bulletin’s’’ new serial, to open next week (Jan. 20),
was written by Mrs. Drake-Brockman, whose husband was for many years
Commissioner of the Nor’-West, with headquarters at Broome. Immediately
after her marriage Mrs. Drake-Brockman went with her husband to his
vast territory, and spent five years making herself familiar with the “blue
north”; and to her own experiences were added the diaries of her husband’s
family—they were Westralian pioneers—and especially the reminiscences
of the late F. W. Teesdale, M.L.A., who had a rich store of stirring tales
of the wild Nor’-West and its pearling industry. For the most part
“Blue North” is a story of the pearl-hunter; but it is a story, too, of the
girl-hunter, and Sophie, whom John Fordyce first meets goat-herding at
Cossack, is an arresting character. Indeed, the characters are so vivid
that “The Bulletin” felt obliged to get from the author an assurance that
they were inventions of her own, and not actual personalities. An exception
is, however, made in the case of certain well-known old-time Westralian
officials, who come into the early part of the tale.
Very little has been written about the pearling industry from the inside.
It is carried on by men who take their lives in their hands every day.
“Blue North” introduces you to many of them of very different types, and
tells how they live—and how some of them love.
Maragi’s voice cracked in a frenzied appeal
for mercy. Huntley laughed. He took a
quick step forward and the sorcerer backed
away screeching in horrible, fear. He
whimpered, yelped, when Huntley took him
by the scruff of the heck and . kicked him
into the creek. .
“Pick up that thing in, the creek bed
and give it to me,” Huntley said. His
voice was ice. \
Maragi crawled, groaning, into the water;
recovered the little clay figure and sur-
rendered it to the white man. Huntley
examined it curiously. It had already been
much eroded by the action of the running
water. With a shiver Huntley dropped the
thing and crushed it into a shapeless mass
with an angry heel.
“Now, cut me a lawyer-cane, Sergeant,”
he ordered grimly. “Pliant; vet not too
thin. There is in my right arm mighty
magic of fearful potency. And after I have
unleashed it, Maragi of the One Eye will
wish that he had never been born.”
He made a whistling cut in the air with
the cane Gibara gleefully handed him. Then,
quite dispassionately, he grasped the
sorcerer by. his woolly mop. A frenzied howl
split the air. Maragi writhed and twisted,
but Huntley’s grip did not relax. There
was a brief silence. Huntley’s arm rose,
the cane whistled, and Maragi’s howls were
terrible to hear. At the end it was a broken,
whimpering thing that went swaying and
tottering along the track that led to
Aikoroa.
“It is good, Taubada,” Gibara. applauded.
He split a betel-nut and chewed it with
great satisfaction. His clenched fist thudded
pn his chest. ' “It is very good, sah. Ia!
We be men—you and -I!”
The moon hung low, nebulous. One by
one the stars blinked themselves out.
“Let us go, Sergeant,” Huntley said.
In the .sane light of day he would cer-
tainly laugh at the extravagant fancies he
had been indulging. He regretted that he
had: not forced Maragi to disclose the drug
he had, unquestionably, caused to be
administered to Marian. Another time,
perhaps, Maragi, he would swear, would
be willing to tell him anything—now.
“Let us go, Sergeant,” he repeated, “for
to-day we journey to Baramata with the
sinabada. Thei-e is a poUrri-pourri. tauna
[magician] there whom white men call
doctor.”
Gibara cocked an eye at him, made as
to speak, then checked himself. Huntley
looked up at the blue-black heavens; at
the vague outlines of the hills—sombre,
brooding, distant.
“Vaedaeni [it is finished],” lie said
briefly.
He swung on his heel and set his face
toward Natai'oa..
Dawn! Rose and gold spreading over the
face of the waters. A throbbing of bird
notes in the trees—a crispness, a breath of
freshness in the air—scintillating dewdrops
on the grass—a vagrant, caressing land
breeze. And, anchored' offshore, the station
whaleboat, with a white man lolling lan-
guidly across the thwarts, one long leg
dangling over the side—fishing!
Huntley rubbed his eyes, sunk with
fatigue, and stared. Then lie made stolidly
for the house. He would never understand
Freddie Chisholm, never be able to keep
pace with him.
The bungalow was awakening—if it had
slept at all that night. A tenuous wisp
of smoke issued from the kitchen chimney.
Gaduari, the residency cook, was feeling
the fatness of a pullet. There was a newly-
sharpened axe at his feet.
Huntley, mounting the steps, suddenly
realised that he was. very tired. He tip-
toed on to the verandah—and gaped, saying
nothing. Marian was still in her lounge;
but she was sitting up, and there was a tinge
of color in her cheeks, a brightness in her
eyes.
“Hello, precious!” she said.
A smile dawned on her wan face, and she
beckoned him with a limp hand. Charlie
Durrant was fussing over a tea tray. Hunt-
ley turned a startled glance upon him.
Durrant nodded.
“She picked up amazingly during the
night, Jim,” he said in a cheerful voice.
“Three or four hours ago—suddenly, you
know. Most extraordinary business. Really,
I believe she is on the mend. She has
certainly got over the worst, Jim.”
Irresistibly, Jim Huntley’s eyes sought
those of Sergeant Gibara. Blank amaze-
ment, stark incredulity and something less
easy to define were written on his face.
Gibara’s face was blank.
With marked indecision Huntley took the
cup Durrant handed him. raised it, lowered
it, and gulped its scalding contents. Sur-
prisedly he saw that his hands wei’e shak-
ing. Durrant seemed to notice for the first
time his scratched face and torn clothing.
“What’s wi’ong, Jim?” he asked anxiously,
“lou look all in. Is there anything amiss,
old chap?”
With an effort Huntley found his voice.
“I’m damned if I know,” he said.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
Noon! A copper-colored sun in a stark,
cobalt skv pouring down a flood of invisible,
quivering lieat-rays; a diy bulb touching
ninety degrees, and a wet lagging a point
or two behind. The sea glistening like
molten lava; an incantation of muttering
surf, distant, oddly muffled. No bird notes,
no cheerful shrilling of insects nor piping
and trumpeting of frogs; only, far off, a
hombill flapping its wings in lumbering
flight, an old man cassowary drumming
somewhere in the bush.
There would be rain to-night, blessed,
cooling rain. And wind! Huntley was wait-
ing and longing for the premonitory signs—
the gradual blackening of the sky to north-
west, the deep, pulsing organ-note of the
surf that, would presage a sudden fall of
temperature and the breaking of a mon-
soonal guba.
His eyes were heavy with exhaustion; he
was limp and sticky, conscious of a desperate
desire for sleep: but his mind was a seeth-
ing chaos of doubts and apprehensions; he
was tormented by an intolerable restlessness
that precluded all idea of sleep. He asked
of himself an explanation that would match
the facts, the inexplicable facts of Marian’s
illness and her miraculously sudden re-
covery. Damn it! The whole thing was
absurd. She was sleeping now, peacefully,
healthfully, like a little child. And from
the moment she had dozed off he had estab-
lished himself in a chair close to her, watch-
ing her, guarding her; not willing to take
her father or Fi-eddie Chisholm into his
confidence—not daring.
They would look at him askance, Durrant
and Freddie. Marian had been poisoned or
there were unexplored l'egions of primitive
human thought unperceived by the superior
censes of white men. Which, of course, was
arrant rot. The child’s life had been
attempted—by poison cunningly adminis-
tered by some accomplice of Maragi’s in the
house itself. There was no other explana-
tion. Thei - e could be none.
Minute by minute, hour by hour he had
sat close to the sleeping girl, brooding,
speculating, while the sun climbed to the
meridian. He would sleep it all off, he told
himself, when Marian awoke. But not until
then! He must satisfy himself beyond all
doubt that his lawyer-cane had killed—not
scotched—the snake.
Marian stirred in her sleep. Her eyelids
were shadowed, the cheeks below had lost
something of their alluring delicacy of
curve. There were about her a limpness
that told of physical collapse narrowly
averted. Lying there/she set him thinking,
remembering, long ago, ages ago—a frowsy
room reeking of stale liquor; the noisy
breathing of a drink-soaked dei’elict on a
sagging stretcher; Katuna, fat, blowsy,
taking her “pay-off” with greedy cheerful-
ness; Sax-oni, corroded with hate; Calvei’t,
the man in possession, with his predatory
hands reaching out for Marian. Calvert
would be in Sydney now—doing the heavy,
he shouldn’t wonder. A close-mouthed
youngster, Freddie, secretive when it
suited him to be; a good lad, though,
splendid chap; more to him than a meticu-
lous regard for things sartorial.
Huntley swayed in his seat and his head
came up with a start. He strove to marshal
thoughts that persisted in wandering; he
was connecting them with a valiant effort.
Where was he? Fi-eddie, the lad had been
mooning about all day—anxious, restless—
though disguising it thinly under a shell of
flippancy. That was his manner, these days,
flippant, casual—he was a damned poor
actor! He would let Freddie go to Bara-
nxata with Marian and her dad as soon as
the girl was fit to travel. Marian would
expect it; Chisholm would expect it. And
who the devil was he to interpose an official
veto? Let youth be served.
He must l-emind Chisholm to get the
whaleboat hauled up and made snug in
readiness for the blow. God, it was- hot!
He had six months’ leave due to him—more,
eight months, by gad! To-morrow he would
lodge an application. Damn the exigencies
of the service! He needed a spell, needed
it badly. His head fell slowly forwai’d, his
heavy eyelids drooped and closed.
Dusk! Heat lightiling flai-ing, flickering
above the hoi’izon; a nimble of distant
♦ hunder. The sun setting like liquid fire
behind billowing banks of purple rain-
clouds; bi’oken ripples, gold-tinted, on the
lagoon waters, soon to become phantoms of
foam and spray charging shorewards under
the lash of the wind. Shifting mists slowly
smothering the mountains in a white
shroud; the air tense, still, magnifying the
derisive squawking of the cockatoos, the
eerie complaint of the homing gulls. Natui’e
gathering her forces together, proclaiming
in a hundred different voices the threat of
imminent storm.
Huntley awoke with a jerk.
“Old sleepy-head!”
He chew his hand across his eyes. Through
a fog of unreality he saw Marian sitting
on the edge of the lounge. There was a
faint smile on her lips; but she was curi-
ously still, her head bent forward a little,
gazing at him.
Huntley stared in a dazed way. It was
her eyes that riveted his attention. They
had been terroi-haunted; now they were
filled with a glow of laughter. And as he
stared a surge of warm blood tinted cheeks
that had been white, and her nose crinkled
in a way charmingly, provokingly familiar.
“Why do you stare so, Jim?” she asked
slowly.
As he watched her, she drew in a quick
breath as a sudden spasm of remembrance
convulsed her face.
“Oh,” she exclaimed. “I’ve been ill,
haven’t I? Wh-what—what” Her voice
became a trembling whisper. An expression
half fearful, half bewildered came over her
face. “Wh-what has been the matter with
me. Jim? I—l—oh, dear!”
Huntley marshalled his thoughts.
“Fever,” he answei’ed briefly. He drew
up his chair and sat down beside her. She
was looking at him tragically now, making
little helpless gestures, shivering as though
with cold. He pressed her gently back into
her bower of cushions and pulled a rug
over her.
“Fevpr and nerves and generally over-
doing it, my dear.” He smiled blandly.
“Perhaps you’ll pay attention to me in
future. You’ll recollect that I told you you
required a complete change? Well, you’ve


SYDNEY BRIDGE CELEBRATIONS•MARCH 1932.
iliii
iijiM
m
hi
IB : 1 '. 1 *j> ”it -Sm-'S-' n
gjfi'f-tfllilliiili'ft^gj
:°sa\
S
c
»
i
\ 5
VISIT SYDNEY
for this occasion
and stay at the
Wentworth
pH HE WENTWORTH, Sydney’s most up to date hotel is
ideally situated overlooking the southern approach to
the Sydney Harbour Bridge. 5 Away from city noises and
dust it has the advantage of being handy to all shops, theatres
and the business centre. Wentworth conveniences include hot
and cold water; telephone in each room; the hotel is heated
during winter; and has cool air during summer. The Went-
worth cuisine is excellent, and the tariff is moderate.
The
AUSTRALIA’S HOTEL DE-LUXE
Ghurch SFCill • Sydney
’Phone 8W1361
All arrangements personally supervised by Mrs. Maclurcan
Pump
Chats (No. 3)
fPSPT'"
j
H?
“Here we have our latest hand pump, the ‘Apex.’ It’s a pump designed
primarily for petrol and oil, but it can be’ used for water under certain
conditions.”
“I haven’t seen this type before. What’s its advantages over the
ordinary petrol pump?”
“Greater reliability and a greater capacity. It’s absolutely trouble-free,
and gives a bigger flow.”
“It seems a sturdy pump, judging- from the strength of the part you
are standing on.”
“You’re right, it. is a; strong job. Another important feature is that
there are no rubber or leather fittings to wear out or perish.”
“How many sizes do you make these pumps in?”
“Two. For half-inch and throe-quarter-inch fittings. The ‘Apex’ is
also available made up in an outfit ready for pumping petrol out of drums.
They are fitted with a suction pipe, tapered cone, six feet of hose and other
fittings.”
“Could I see an outfit working?”
“Certainly. Wo. have" working exhibits in all our Showrooms. I’ll give
you a demonstration.”
“Thanks, and I’d like to get one of your illustrated Catalogues.”
McPHERSON’S PTY., LTD., “Pump Specialists,”
51 Bathurst St., Sydney
116 Waymouth St., Adelaide
554 Collins St.. Melbourne
532 Murray St., Perth
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
put the breeze up us all, and you’re jolly
well going to Baramata just as soon as it
fairs up.”
She sat up with an effort, tossing the rug
from her. He protested feebly. There was
a tense look about her mouth. One hand
was at her throat, the other unconsciously
gripped his wrist.
“Wh-what happened to me? Where
how have I”
“Don’t worry about anything, my dear
child.” He was patting her shoulder with
a futile hand. “Fever plays all sorts of
queer tricks, and you’ve had a gruelling
issue.”
“It has been a horror! A black cloud of
—of”
“Never mind about that,” he counselled
cheerily. “You’ve passed through a pretty
sticky ordeal. We’re sending you to Bara-
mata soon with a request to Jane March-
mont to put you on a scientific quinine
x'ation and tone you up with some hard
tennis and a party or two. But we shan’t
talk of that now. Better lie down again and
rest, my dear.”
Lightning glimmered—livid, unearthly.
Slow thunder rumbled in the sky, raindrops
splashed on the palm-thatched roof. From
the sea came the low moan of the approach-
ing wind.
Huntley rose, slammed down the shutters,
drove home the bolts and stolidly returned
to his seat.
He was intensely and vividly aware of
her, of her slim little body curled up on
the lounge; her little face, white, strained,
pinched; her eyelashes curled and wet. And
he thrust his hands deep into his pockets
and flenched them violently.
“I’m being frightfully silly, Jim. I —l
seem to have lost control. I’ve been in a
dreadful sort of nightmare. All kinds of
abominable” She was clinging to his
arm, her face pressed against his jacket
sleeve. She shivered all over, overwrought,
overwhelmed.
“I’m afraid. I’m—l’m—take me away,
—Jim. Please, Jim. T-take me away!”
There was a buzzing in Huntley’s ears.
His heart seemed to be turning over in his
body.
“Soon, you poor little kid. When the
weather clears up, and you are fit to travel.
Your father will take you in—you and
Freddie.
“Oh, Freddie!”
The words came from her almost with
petulance. She was twisting his jacket sleeve
with nervous, twitching fingers.
“You two kids are very dear to me,
Marian,” Huntley said gently.
She choked and lifted to him a white,
tragic face. Then, all at once, she was
crying soundlessly, helplessly, like a- child.
“There—there, my, dear,” Huntley com-
forted her. He took both her hands in his,
but she wrenched them away. She was
holding her face against his coat.
“Oh, Jim,” she wailed. “You dear, blun-
dering, helpless infant!”
Intuition, a sudden bewildering compre-
hension of something new and wonderful
dimly perceived set a pulse hammering in
Huntley’s throat. He tried to say some-
thing, but his thick utterance sounded
strange.
A queer sound, half laugh, half sob, came
from the girl. Her hands reached for his
shoulders. She drew him to her, straining
her slim arms about his neck, drawing his
head down to hers. For a moment she clung
desperately to him.
A fever burned in all Jim Huntley’s
blood; a stinging fire consumed him. He
kissed the palms of her hands, her wrists.
He ran a hand beneath her chin, tilted'
back her head and kissed her hair, her eyes,
her mouth.
“I just had to do it, Jim,” Marian whis-
pered. “You precious, doddering babe!”
And so Freddie Chisholm found them ten
minutes later. He looked, saw, and fled on
tiptoe to the back verandah. Presently he
was beckoning mysteriously to Charlie
Durrant.
“It would be a pity to disturb them, sir,”
he whispered. His pleasant features were
supremely cheerful. “But do get an eye-
ful. Oh, my sacred aunt!”
Charlie Durrant was patently bewildered
when he came back to Chisholm. He eyed
the lad askance, pulling on his straggling
beard, pursing his lips. He coughed.
“Good God!” he exclaimed. “How long
has this—er—affair been in progress? I
thought—er—that is, if I thought anything
at all that—-er—the child—er—damn it,”
my dear fellow! Where do you come in?”
Chisholm’s hand was straying towards the
decanter. He pushed a glass towards Dur-
rant.
“Nowhere, sir,” he answered cheerfully.
“Never did. Never could stand a possible
earthly while that cradle-robber was
around.”
He lifted his glass, squinted at its con-
tents against the fading light, and nodded
to Durrant.
"Good luck to the old lad, sir,” he said
solemnly. “A good fellow; a good mate.
Here’s to him.”
“To ’em both,” said Charlie Durrant,
[The End.]
His Excellency’s Taste
J. 11. M. ABBOTT
THROWS SOME SIDELIGHTS ON
EARLY SYDNEY HISTORY—WITH A PARTICU-
LAR BEAM ON GOVERNOR AUGUSTUS FITZROY
SIR Charles Augustus Fitzroy,” my
friend Baron Von Big wrote in
his illuminating diary, “was, on the
whole, a very good friend to me, and the
recently-arrived news of his death at the
beginning of the year (185 S) has cast a tinge
of melancholy over the present week. lie
may not have been a great statesman, and
many there are who have regarded him as
a lamentable Governor, whilst some hold
him to have been a trifling kind of man,
weak and pliable, and too readily susceptible
to the enticements of the bacchanal bottle
and the female ankle. Well, we all have our
little amiabilities, and if Charles Augustus
Fitzroy liked his dram, and was not shocked
by a pretty face with a saucy sparkle in it,
he has all the sympathy of Augustus Von
Big, who has not himself been lacking in a
certain susceptibility to good wine and
naughty ladies. Let his reputation be at
rest. He took what the gods gave, and gave
what his goddesses desired. It is not Mr.
Augustus who will be censorious of this dead
gentleman. Neither his political weaknesses
nor his personal morality shall be questioned
by his old friend.
“Dr. John Dunmore Lang, that dour and
strenuous Scot, has been very severe upon
the ex-Governor in the most recent edition
(1852) of liis admirable work the ‘Historical
and Statistical Account of New South
Wales’; but the good doctor is a fiery fellow
who criticises a little bitterly, never forgiv-
ing a lapse, and should not, in my opinion,
be taken too seriously. There is much to be
said in palliation of such backslidings as are
connected with the moral reputation of Sir
Charles. By the lamentable carriage accident
in the Government Domain at Parramatta
in 1847 he was robbed of a charming,
accomplished, affectionate and sympathetic
helpmate, and left a lonely widower in a far
country when still a comparatively young-
man in full enjoyment of all the attributes
of manhood. That he should be driven to
seek consolation was not unnatural. It is
to his - credit that he ever sought it with
unvarying good taste. Indeed, his taste was
somewhat similar to my own, as a shortly-
to-be-related incident will demonstrate, and
no one has ever been able to maintain that
the taste of Mr. Augustus, with regard to
womankind, was not a sort unworthy of
emulation in the rising generation. When-
ever I have heard of any of his Excellency's
indiscretions’—as they were termed by those
holding particular reverence for the eleventh
commandment—l have always wished myself
a moiety of his luck. To be indiscreet is to
be human, and to be human is as God
designed when He created mankind. It is
blasphemous to be otherwise.
The story I am about to set down in
anting for the benefit of whomsoever may
inherit these notes after my demise is not a
story with a moral. Asa matter of fact,
there is nothing moral about it. and if it
deserves any classification at all. it should
perhaps be styled ‘immoral.’ The Devil take
youi moralists, says Mr. Augustus, to immure
them in Hell! I have not any time for them,
never had, and never will have. A story is a
story, and should convey nothing whatever
except a story. That is my opinion, and it
is in the light of such an opinion that I tell
all my stories. All I claim for them is that
they are true.
‘‘Mr. Emerson Jaikes was a marine gentle-
man who came to the colony in one of Ben
Boyd’s ships, and was for a considerable
time engaged in the whaling trade which
had its headquarters at Twofold Bay, where
Mr. Boyd, before his unfortunate and much-
to-be-regretted financial misfortunes overtook
him, was doing a great service to Australia
and one which promised to nlace him amongst
the most opulent of mankind. This Mr.
Jaikes was a shipmaster who hailed from the
New England provinces of the United States.
He was a hard and austere man, very per-
tinacious in his pursuit of the main chance,
and ostensibly extremely religious, being a
member of that , severe and Calvinistic cult
known as ‘Plymouth Brethren, or ‘Darby-
ites,’ after the founder of their strange and
dreary doctrines. ‘Original sin,’ ‘predestina-
tion,’ ‘regeneration,’‘sanctification’—I learned
all their catchwords during the long course
of an acquaintance which I had to endure
for the sake of his darling and delectable
wife. In the worship of Venus the humble
devotee at the shrine of the universal goddess
acquires much knowledge of a sort that he
detests, but comes to regard it all as some-
thing that has to be borne for the sake of
the end in view. When he has triumphed in
love, lie may look back from the vantage
ground of his great reward, even with feel-
ings of tolerance for all he has been called
upon to endure. I endured much, but have
never doubted that I was amply recompensed
for it all by the love of peerless Amclie.
“This sour person had mated with a blos-
som of sweetness who was entirely matchless,
either in looks, passionate capacity for love,
true sensibility, or the power of appreciating
the devotion of a good man. She was a
native of Martinique, in the French West
Indies, and had, she told me, literally been
sold to Captain Jaikes by her covetous and
soulless father, in consideration of some ad-
vantages in trade which her husband took
good care never to fulfil in his ultimate deal-
ing with his father-in-law.
“ ‘Mon pere ,’ she would say, in her adorable
way, and with her ravishing and bewitching
smile— ‘ ’e made wat you call zc bad bargain
—but so did my Emerson. Oli, ma foi, oui
—I sink so. What you sink, Auguste—
hey ?’
“There may have been others before me —
that I was never able exactly to determine—
but so far as her respective treatment of her
husband and of myself is to be considered. I
am quite sure that. Emerson Jaikes had made
a bad bargain when he bought Amclie Pri-
deaux from her father at the price of a
worthless agreement for a cargo of West
African slaves, which he had never intended
to acquire in the first place, let alone deliver
at St. Pierre, and never did acquire or
deliver. I am sure of that. A very bad
bargain indeed. But he deserved to be
(Continued oil page 3 A.)


“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS!”
Repairs. Firearms sent 0.0. D.
TROUT FISHING
To get Best Results you must use
Best-quality Casts, Farlow's (English)
Hewitt semi-invisible Taper Casts,
3x, 2x, lx 4/-
This cast does not show a glint.
Hardy Haughton Taper Casts . . 3/9
Red Loop Taper Casts 3/3
Write for Fishing Tackle Catalogue (200
illustrations).
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 n ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY.
(Near Market Street.) ’Phone: MA3540.
••FISHING TACKLE TO TACKLE FISHING.”
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Gallautic, who will essay to land the
Adrian Knox Stakes at Rapdwick on January
26, had her first outing since the spring at
Epsom last Saturday, and it was successful.
After winning the V.R.C. Oaks Stakes this
daughter of Heroic ran in the Williamstown
Cup, which fell to her stable-companion,
Second Wind. Though she ran last on that
occasion, Gallantic did not disgrace herself,
having been prominent for a considerable por-
tion of the journey. The jockey palpably
eased up his mount when hope had vanished.
Jack Holt, who trains Gallantic for C. B.
Kellow, was somewhat apprehensive as to
how she would behave at the post in her
Epsom outing. Her manners, however, are
improving, and Duncan did not have much
trouble in getting her away, although she
moved off several lengths behind Binna.
Latter attempted to make one aqt of winning,
but Gallantic, answering gamely to the whip,
wore down her black rival and scored by a
head. Field included Viol d’Amour, who went
amiss after running third in the Victoria
Derby. He was unmarketable and assisted
Scintillation to whip in the field.
Her display speaks Avell for the prospects
of Gallantic at Randwick. She was not
nearly wound up and ought to be in the pink
of condition on Anniversary Day. Holt plans
to see her run in Sydney and take passage
on the following day for Hobart to saddle up
Second Wind for the King’s Cup. He pro-
duced Ernest Lee Steere’s gelding for the
Epsom Handicap. Starting at 7 to 1 in a
field of five, Second Wind obviously wasn’t
fancied by his trainer, and he came home at
the tail of the procession. Allowance must
be made for Second Wind being unready and
having 10.1 in the saddle. Theo Lewis was
associated with the two Williamstown Cup
victories of the chestnut warrior, but Duncan
rode him on Saturday and will weigh out for
him in the King’s Cup. The crack Victorian
Gert • Having, anv luck,Bert?
Bert : "not much"
Gieqt : " R/\o /v e>tTE vet
Bert'. No ; Im not a. bit nuNe^y"
liami weight also has been retained for Gal-
lantic at Randwick.
Duncan is a great asset to Holt and other
trainers who secure his services. In the
hands of a less vigorous horseman Gallantic
would not have won on Saturday, and the
credit of Ingoda Lassie squeezing home in the
Epsom Purse also is due to Duncan. He
worked the King Ingoda mare to the front at
the home turn in the mile and a half con-
test, but was immediately challenged by Good
Samaritan, who possesses the Spearhead
stamina and has inherited speed from Berry
Consols, a dual Standish Handicap winner.
Flail-like strokes of the whip enabled Ingoda
Lassie to .stall off her rival by a head.
Epsom punters had a profitable afternoon,
despite a bad kick-off. The initial event,
for juveniles, went to Bombados, who was
having only his second outing with the
colors up and started at 33 to 1. Alan
Lechte did not hack the colt but was de-
lighted with bis brilliant display. Lechte
is a bosom friend of Duncan, who rode the
red-hot favorite, Gold and Green, one of
C. B. Ivellow.’s Heroic youngsters. Gold
and Green outgalloped the Manfred colt,
Emfred, who was deemed his most formid-
able rival, but failed to withstand challenges
thrown out by Bombados and Brilliant
Star. Bred in N. S. Wales by J. S. Foster,
Bombados fetched only 160 guineas at the
Easter sales in Sydney. He is by the sire
of Bronze Eagle, from Robur.
W. S. (“Tim”) Hickenbotham, whose
father trained Carbine, was unlucky to lose
the first division of the Novice Handicap
with AS on one, a daughter of Graculus. This
mare encountered trouble in the early stages,
yet swept past the leaders as they rounded
the home turn. She is a wayward cus-
tomer, and, after being joined by Double
Chance, commenced to bore him out. They
dead-heated. A protest was entered by
Ashley Reed, and it caused no surprise that
the stewards awarded the race to Double
Chance. Reed went close to landing a treble,
lie scored on Meliora in the second division
of the Novice Handicap, and lost the Epsom
Plate (on Binna) by the narrowest of mar-
gins. Percy Foster, who took Myarin to
Sydney several times, landed the Epsom
Handicap with The Guide. A change of
luck was due to Foster, whose horses had
recorded 23 .seconds in seven months.
* X X X
For Caulfield on Saturday:—
Anniversary Handicap: Cimbrian; next,
St. Frederick.
Tooronga Handicap: Rosetta; next,
Binna.
Gold Digger (Treclare —Pretty Baby) has
been making amends lately for failures ear-
lier in the season. It was thought then that
the chestnut liked to be out in front from
barrier-rise, and a lot of money was dropped
on him before it was discovered that this
was not the case. Freshened up by a spell
and ridden patiently, Gold Digger made a
successful reappearance at Warwick Farm
on January 2, and he was victorious again
in a division of the Three- and Four-year-
old Handicap at Moorefield on Saturday,,
nicely handled on each occasion by an appren-
tice named Britt. This was a good betting
race; Bonnie Valerie, Truesign, Whitting-
ham and Vallage (third) w r ere all preferred
to Gold Digger, whose price eased to sixes.
Sixes could also be got about Remora for
the Flying Handicap, though Brien’s mare
firmed to 7 to 2, and by some bookmakers was
quoted at threes, along with the declared
favorite, Movie Star. Remora had been
beaten by Gold Digger at Warwick Farm,
giving him 291 b., but Gold Digger had shown
earlier in the day that the form was good.
However, it was only by a short head that
Remora defeated the three-year-old filly
Golden Gate (4 to 1), Movie Star, finishing
fast, being another two lengths off third.
Fourth was Love Song, exhibiting his first
glimpse of form since he was temporarily
knocked out in a misguided effort to make a
stayer of him.
Knox, who rode Golden Gate, was on a
good winner in Magnetic, favorite (at 5
to 2) for the Moorefield Handicap. It was
the first time Magnetic had been serioitsly
tried over a mile and a quarter, but he is
gaining staying power with age (at one
time six furlongs was his limit), and unlucky
Mr. Kerry, who shared favoritism with him
and chased him home, was a well beaten
horse in the short straight. The withdrawal
of Magnetic from the Carlton Mile was
relished by the Just Gold party. They backed
their horse solidly, at sixes and fives, and,
finishing more strongly than has been her
wont, she settled the favorite, Celtic, who is
not racing with the resolution the big fellow
used to show.
X X X X
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Gold Digger; next, Bay-
acre or Movie Star.
Park Stakes : Tenacious; next, Agincourt.
Canterbury Handicap : Attar or Flinders ;
next, Sislene.
Welter Handicap: Attar or Roley; next,
Suntan.
“Mells”: The high price of gold and the
corresponding scarcity of currency have sent
a lot of articles that might otherwise have,
become heirlooms into the melting-pot; a
Melbourne newspaper pensively mentions
that “a ton of jewellery, medals and manu-
factured gold has found its way to the
Mint during the past six months.” Even
racing cups go that way; it is admitted at
Melbourne that several of these have been
received, although, “in fairness to the owners,
we cannot disclose what trophies they
wrnre.” In Westralia, officialdom was more
communicative; Perth Cups, it was men-
tioned, were among the spoil of other years
on which the possessors had recently decided
to realise, one seller giving as his reason
that he was “tired of looking after the pot.”
If this sort of thing continues, race clubs
may consider the advisability of substituting
pewter or gun-metal trophies and adding the
difference to the prize-money.
* * X x
“Thormanby”: What good money there
is in training if your establishment becomes
the fashion is seen in the record put up
this English racing season by Joseph Law-
son, the present-day owner of the historic
Manton establishment. With 33 horses La w-
son has won £93,476 in prize-money, a total
never before approached by any trainer.
Next year he may do even better, for he has
several brilliant two-year-olds in hand, in-
cluding Washington Singer’s Orwell, by
Gainsborough—Golden Hair. Orwell is
acclaimed the best youngster since The
Tctrarch : he won close on £20,000 as a two-
year-old, losing only one out of six races.
The colt is 4 to 1 for the Derby.
* x x *
“Dtu-dans”; The English flat-racing
season ended with Gordon Richards again
topping the list of winning riders, this being
the fifth time he has figured in the position.
Veteran Fred Fox, who beat Richards for
first place after a neck-and-neck struggle
last year, and Harry Wragg have also topped
the 100. The champion stallion for the
season was Pharos, by Plialaris. a strain
well known in Australia and one that re-
presents the male line of the much-discussed
Bend Or. Another Plialaris, Manna, winner
of the 1925 Derby, has been, running Pharos
close, and, since the latter is visiting France
for a couple of years on lease, may be head
of the list next season. Other sires to do
well were Gainsborough and bis son
Solario, the first the winner of the “sub-
stitute” Derby of 1918, and the Leger of
the same year, and the second winner of
the Leger of 1925. Solario was the lior.so
for whom Aga Khan offered the record
price of £lOO.OOO, only to be turned down
by the owner, Sir John Rutherford.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Colored American Eddie Daniels (11.3)
did more attacking than is usual for him
during the first five rounds of Leichhardt
Stadium’s principal week-end boxing event,
and had Jimmy Pearce (11.6), of New-
castle, in sore straits. Jimmy recovered, and
Daniels was unable to block anything, except
with his face or body. Pearce, ladling out
lots of punishment in the closing rounds,
earned a popular verdict.
* * * *
Before meeting Billy Meeske at Leich-
hardt last Friday, Russian wrestler Tom
Lurich had been rough on the opposition,
his irregular work having put two previous
opponents temporarily out of commission.
Meeske (14.2) was more riotous than even
Lurich (14.6), and got the first fall with a
Japanese wristlock in the seventh round.
Lurich looked to be spent in the last, but
brought a body-scissors to bear and evened
the fall-score. The referee called the melee
a draw, although Meeske won by a mile on
points.
The Ins and Outs
South Africa found Tasmania at Launces-
ton by no means such an easy job as most
anticipated. Thanks to good bowling by James
(4-67) and Burrows (3-59) the tourists got
no further than 277 in their first knock,
Dalton reaching the level 100, while Taylor
(37) and Van der Merwe (35) were also in
the picture. At stumps on Saturday the
locals had 228 up for 8 wickets, Atkinson
(90) and Burrows (62) adding 90 runs for
their partnership. Morkel’s 3-53 was the
best bit of South African bowling.
* x * *
“Bramall Lane”: Wisden’s five best
cricketers for 1932 include three Englishmen,
a Maorilander and an Indian. The Britons
are Verity and Bowes, of Yorkshire, and
Langridge, of Sussex. Q. S. Dempster re-
presents the All Blacks, while the Nawab
of Pataudi fills fifth place. Verity is looked
on by the Tykes as Wilfred Rhodes's suc-
cessor with the ball, and has been in the
front rank of English bowlers for the past
couple of seasons. Bowes is another trund-
ler who shares most of the Yorkshire attack
with Verity, and Langridge is an all-rounder
of whom great things are expected. All
are candidates for the; next Eleven for Aus-
tralia. Dempster, M.L.’s champion batsman,
is well known to Australians, and lias
greatly impressed the critics on his tw T o
tours of England. The Nawab, of course,
is tlie Oxford crack who is now qualifying
for Worcestershire, and is a batsman worthy
to be ranked with Ranji and Duleepsinhji.
H* *i* -i- -!*
“Aigburth” : As was the case prior to the
visit of Chapman’s side, there is a lot of
wire-pulling going on to secure the captaincy
of the next English team for Jardiue. One
inspired snob comments in the press that
Jardine will not be “overawed by the Board
of Control,” and for this reason may not be
“received with the smiling cordiality that
greeted the more amenable Arthur Gilligan
or carefree Percy Chapman.” The writer
closes his article on a note of horror when
he states that it has come to his knowledge
that Chapman actually played tennis with
Hendren—a mere professional—and added to
the enormity of his offences by permitting
some of the older professionals to address
him as “Skipper.”
“Statis”: The close of the third Test
match leaves one with the impression that
the present South African team is not a
shadow of that here with Sherwell in 1910-11,
and a comparison of averages confirms
it. The Test batting averages of the present
team run from 28. S in Christy’s case to
3.G for Quinn, the fall being gradual through
the 13 players who have turned out. Sher-
well’s team was headed by Faulkner with
73.20, and only three were below double
figures. Several of the team topped three
figures, Faulkner and Zulcli twice, and
Snooke once, and the bowling against them
included Hordern, Wliitty, Cotter, Arm-
strong, Kelleway and Macartney—what
wouldn’t Australia give for a bowling side
like that to-day? The present Afrikander
bowling averages are also on the wrong-
side, though here the difference is not so
marked. Bell, with 15 wickets, has far and
away the best —28.6. Reggie Schwarz, with
26.04, did a bit better than that for the men
of 20 years ago.
x x x *
Any fear that the South African tour
would not prove a financial success is now
fairly down the wind. The three Test matches
to date have shown receipts of £13,783 13s.
Id., the Melbourne game alone turning in
£6472 12s. lOd. The visitors were originally
promised that they would receive half the
receipts for all matches with a definite
guarantee of £12,000. In view of the fact
that there are two Tests and several import-
ant matches with the States yet to go. the
outlook takes on the roseate hue of a Com-
munist’s necktie.
* * *
“Raining”: In Mandated New Guinea
a series of Test matches between New Ire-
land and New Britain has been raging;
New Britain has won three matches to
one by New Ireland. At last advices, the
New Irish, determined not to lie prostrate
beneath the heel of the New British
oppressor, were mustering another team to
repel the invaders who were due to take
part in the fifth Test in New Ireland. Only
one thing was asked of the New British in
the announcement of the fixture in the local
press. That was that they should refrain
from serenading the local citizens in the
small hours as they did on the occasion of
their last visit. Results will be published
as they come to hand.
* * * *
“Hotliam”; Those Melbourne scientists
who gravely suggested that the anatomical
difference between the arm-bones of an a bo.
and a white man might account for Gil-
bert's throwing (B. 6/l/'32) fell into the
soup that is always in wait for people ven-
turing on matters of which they know noth-
ing. To begin with, the sooty Queens-
lander doesn’t throw —every umpire who lias
judged his bowling, save one in Vie.,
is positive on the point. In any case the
question of the length of his ' arm-bones
has nothing to do with the matter. The
rule says that the ball must be bowled—
“not thrown or jerked.” To throw, the
elbow or wrist or both must be brought
into action, so throwing is a matter con-
cerned with the joints and not with the
actual bones. The ideal bowling delivery is
one where the straight arm swings on ' the
shoulder-socket as the arm of a windmill
revolves round the driving-shaft. It would not
matter if Gilbert’s upper arm-bone were 50ft.
long, though in that case he would have to
bowl round-arm instead of over, for fear
of barking his knuckles on the pitch and
cutting it up.
(Continued on page 31.)
“Hydro”: Miss England 111., the racing
motor-boat now being built for Lord Wake-
field by Thorneycroft, will carry two of the
super Rolls-Royce aeroplane engines, instead
of one, as her predecessor did, and is expected
to be ready for launching by the end of
April. Kaye Don will be the pilot, and
after he has tuned the craft up on Lake
Garda in Italy he will take her across the
Atlantic to race Gar Wood, the American,
whose “win” in the last contest is still frag-
rant in the nostrils of every sportsman. No
news has come to hand of Wood’s prepara-
tions, and it is possible that he relies On his
peculiar brand of sporting ethics to again
bring him victory without having to go to
the expense and trouble of building a new
craft.
% x x *
After 27 years the last of Nigel Barker’s
Australian records disappeared from tlic
books when Jimmy Carlton covered 75 yards
in 7 3-ssec. The quartette of Australian
records put up by Barker — 1 75yds., 7 4-ss.ee.;
220yds., 21 4-ssec.; 300yds., 3isec.; and
440yds., 4S4sec. —is now divided equally
between Carlton and Golding, after surviving
for an aggregate period of 100 years, or a
quarter-century apiece. None have been
improved by more than one-fifth of a second.
All records were under the watch of the
famous W. T. Kerr. In four meetings at
the Australasian championships (when M.L.
also competed), Barker gathered in ten
firsts, three seconds, and two thirds, inclu-
sive of half-miling, hurdling and broad-
jumping. As a Rugby footballer Barker
was gdiosen to play for Australia against
N.Z. (1905) and against Great Britain
(190 S), but on each occasion was unable to
make the trip and thus to secure his inter-
national double in athletics and football. In
those days Barker was at the Uni., learning
to be a mining engineer and chemist. lie
gave up that life later to join William
Tilley and Co., the sharebrokers (he had
married a Tilley daughter), and he is still
with that old firm.


The Ins and Outs
Though they made a better showing gener-
ally than in the previous Tests, in their third
match with Australia at Melbourne the
South Africans again displayed the tendency
to fade away in the crucial stages of a match
which has contributed so much to their lack
of success in this country. To date, their
best showing has been in bowling, which has
been consistently good against exceptionally
strong batting. On several occasions bad
catching has let the trundlers down, while
when it came to facing Grimmett their bats-
men were almost invariably at sea. Indeed
it is no exaggeration to say that the South
Australian bowler has been a more import-
ant factor in their, defeat than even Brad-
man.
The Australian second innings ended with
554 up, of which Bradman (1(57), WoodfuU
(1(51), McCabe (71), Kippax (67) and
Ponsford (34) made 500, the other bats-
men failing. With 395 to win, the visitors
began well. 133 going up for the first three
wickets, Mitchell (46), Christy (63) and
Taylor (38) making runs. After that, save
for Vincent, who batted pluckily for 34, the
innings resolved itself into a trek for the
pavilion, ending at 225. So the Roles lost
the match by 169 runs and the rubber with
it.
The Australian selectors rather flabber-
gasted the critics by selecting the team for
the fourth Test in Adelaide before the third
had been decided. Ironmonger, Wall and
a’Beckctt drop out, their places being taken
by Hunt '(N.S.W.), Tliurlow (Q.) and
O’Reilly (N.S.W.). Hunt is a young left-
hand bowler of promise, though as yet no
Ironmonger or Hornibrook. He is a magni-
ficent field, and can be a really_ good bats-
man. Thurlow was in the running for the
last Australian Eleven, and, in spite of an
injury during Queensland’s tour of the
southern States, bowled excellently, ('speci-
ally in the match just concluded with N.S.W.
in ’ Sydney. O’Reilly, a slow right-hand
bowler and left-hand bat, is the sur-
prise selection. As a bowler he did well
against Victoria in Melbourne and against
Queensland, being a last-minute selection
for the State team to fill Bettington’s place.
He is an indifferent field, but can use the
long handle to advantage, as he showed in
Melbourne. He is evidently regarded as a
possible successor to Fairfax, and should
make the most of his good fortune. One
would have liked to see some of the young
batsmen given a chance as well. Fingle-
ton. Darling or Lonergan vice the out-of-
form Ponsford, for instance.
u*
“Der Jong”: Kenneth George Viljoen—
he calls it “Villjune,” according to the papers,
though in the days when writer knew the
Dopper it was pronounced “Fillowen”— Ji
who is the first Afrikander batsman to score
three figures in a Test match this tour, comes
from East Griqualand, and learned his
cricket at the Kimberley High School, where
lie was a contemporary of Xenophon Bal-
askas, his mate in the present ’Bok team, the
side being coached by Frank Sibbles, the
Lancashire professional. At .school Viljoen
headed both batting and bowling averages
in 1926-27, though little has been, seen of
him as a trundler on this tour. _ He is also
a first-class fieldsman, and, being only 22,
he promises to bulk big in the South African
cricket of the future.
The itinerary for the English Eleven next
season has been completed. Kicking off
against Westralia, at Perth, on October 20,
the tour ends with a match against a ‘‘com-
bined team” at the same place, which begins
on March 23, 1933. The Test series has
been varied, the first being begun at Sydney
on November 25, instead of at Brisbane as
on the last occasion. Then a . jump will be
made to Adelaide for the second, beginning;
December 16. Melbourne will see the third,
the only one to be played in Yarraville
this tour, December 29 being down for the
start. On January 20 Brisbane will be the
venue, and the final match will be in Sydney
again, beginning February 10. In lieu of
a second Test, Melbourne is given a match
in which the visitors will meet an Aus-
tralian Eleven in mid-November. In addi-
tion to games with all the States, the Eng-
lishmen will play _ three country matches
in Victoria, two in N.S.W. and one in
Queensland against the Darling Downs.
In their Sheffield match with N.S.W. at
Sydney Cricket Ground the Queenslanders
were left with 414 to get. A creditable start
was made, 168' for 3 wickets, but the inn-
ings, with only eight men able to bat,
finished at 225. Cook (79) and Oxenliam
(45) were the chief run-getters. Hunt (3-45)
and O’Reilly (4-47) got the wickets. N. S.
Wales now heads the Shield table with 15
points, South Australia (10) and Victoria
and Queensland (5 each) following in order.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: The N.S.W. side to meet
the Japanese in the two-day tourney
beginning January 16 includes no surprises,
taking into consideration the form shown
in the County of Cumberland champion-
ships. Crawford is No. 1 and skipper,
of course, but he is likely -to sadly
miss his old team-mate in the doubles,
Harry Hopman, who now figures as a
Victorian. Aubrey Willard, who has been
enjoying a second time on the tennis
earth, is the second member of the team,
and R. Dunlop the third. Crawford and
Willard will be the first doubles pair,
and Willard and Dunlop the second. The
Japanese pairing will be Satoli and Harada
and Nunoi and Harada. The first day will
open with singles between Willard and
Harada and Crawford and Satoli. By the
time they are over we shall see just where
we stand in regard to Davis Cup chances.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: N. S. Wales tennis players
are wondering a good deal at the grading
of the State’s first ten. The placing
second of Sproulo, who has not even
been included in the trio selected to meet
the Japanese this week, is a surprise, as
is Jim Willard’s relegation to number
six. Bruce Walker, on his recent showing
in Sydney, seems worthy of a higher
place than seventh, and the grading of
the schoolboy crack McGrath as tenth on
the list is ridiculous. It may be, as the
people responsible for the list say, that
it has been compiled on achievements
throughout 1931. If that be so, a few
performances of merit early in the year
and a medium standard of success there-
after outweigh a series of brilliant
successes in the closing stages of the season.
McGrath is undoubtedly one of the best
four players in the State and should have
been rated accordingly.
There has been a controversy in America
over the use of spiked shoes in tennis. The
rule as it is observed at present in most
tennis-playing countries allows the referee to
permit the use of spikes at his discretion.
There is, however, an American section
headed by Watson Washburn, whom Aus-
tralia saw with the Yank Davis Cup team
of 1920, which desires to wear spikes on
all occasions instead of the customary rubber
soles, claiming that they do a court more
good than harm, provided it is rolled after.
That may be where courts are always more
or less soft, but on the flinty surfaces so
common in Australia it would be the other
way about. Have a look at the bowler’s
end of any cricket pitch after a day s play
if you have any doubt what spikes can do
to turf.
“Glenelg”: The' South Australian tennis
championships in Adelaide this year were
interesting in view of the fact that the
tourney for the Australian titles will shortly
be held here. D. P. Turnbull reinforced his
claims to selection for Australia against the
Japanese by winning the men’s singles, though
Quist ran him to five sets before a decision
was arrived at. Quist. had his revenge in
the doubles, when, partnered by Gar Hone,
he won from Turnbull and Shepherd. Kitty
le Messurier won the women’s singles for
the ninth consecutive time, and with Turn-
bull won the mixed doubles, in addition to
taking the women’s doubles with Miss Col-
lison.
MYOPIA.
Sarcastic Fan (as boxer gets dropped again on hands and knees).
“'Ere, what’re you lookin’ for? Some o’ them points you’ve been
losin’?”
“Let” : Further light has been thrown on
the English chances in the next Davis Cup
(B. 6/l/’32) by the performance of Perry
in the Christmas tournament in Paris, when
lie beat Jean Borotra three sets to one in the
final of the singles, following this up by
winning the doubles in partnership with
Boussus from the ex-professional Paul
Foret and Bernard. Then lie took the singles
with the Belgian championette. Mile. Sigart.
Borotra is certainly not the Jean of yester-
year, but he is still one of the world’s most
formidable players. Perry seems to have
his measure, however, for in their last meet-
fhg in the Davis Cup challenge round he
beat the Basque in a five-set match.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Puttah” : We may see a brown golf cham-
pion in years to come. Port Moresby golf
club staged a day-out on Boxing Day for
the small native caddies: a four-hole match,
A and B grades, and a driving competition.
All chibs used had to be made by the cad-
dies themselves, and their handiwork was
remarkable, some having as many as five
clubs, ranging from wood to putter. The
winner of the four-hole A-grade match went
round in IS, that being 3 above par for
those holes. He reached No. 1 green, a dis-
tance of about 300 yards, in two. It was
obvious that some of the caddies had faith-
fully , copied the style of their particular
“taubadas.” If they were to have coaching
they would, no doubt, produce some good
players.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: As anticipated, the Brisbane
municipal golf course at Victoria Park is
proving a money-spinner from the kick-off.
The receipts for the first six weeks totalled
£702, expenditure for the period being less
than half that. Indications are that the ven-
ture will prove one of the Greater Brisbane
Council’s most profitable enterprises, though
Lord knows that isn’t saying much. What
might have been had the council only per-
mitted a Nineteenth Hole staggers the
imagination.
“Streamer” : Queensland's newest golf club
is tlie Press, which now numbers over 40
members. The club will shortly stage its
first, tourney at the public links, Victoria
Park. Owing to the irregular hours of the
pressmen—when on duty, of course—-the com-
petition will extend over a seven-day period.
The opening event is announced as a Bogey
handicap. Why drag in the time-worn
“Bogey”? “Sub-editor” would have just
the same meaning, and carry far more sig-
nificance to the average pressman.
* * * *
“Sturt” : Bill Whitty, the lefthander, who
with “Tib” Cotter did most of the bowling
for Australia in Test matches from 15)00 till
1912, has tied for the golf championship of
Port McDonnell, the south-eastern (S.A.)
district which is now his home—and used
to be Adam Lindsay Gordon’s.
“ITermit Park” : North Queensland golfers
will miss Dr. Herbert Evans, who died at
Townsville the other day at 43. Born in
Brisbane, he went to Scotch College in Mel-
bourne, and took his degree subsequently at
Melbourne Uni. After practice in various
Queensland centres, he settled in Townsville
in 1917, and became a keen follower of
games and sports of various kinds, being-
president of Townsville golf club for some
years, as well as vice-president of the North
Queensland Golf Association, while tennis
and racing also interested him.
“Sic Transit”: Of all passing crazes in
sport or otherwise, probably “minnie” golf
had the briefest and most hectic career. All
over the world it came up as a flower and
in the evening was cut down. Sydney, to
take only one Australian centre, is littered
with the ruins of derelict links where not
even a lizard keeps his court. In America,
where many of the courses were built in
the country as well as the cities, the only
frequenters of them are the local rabbits.
Here even the rabbits have deserted them-
judging at least by the numbers of rabbits
in plus-fours who may be seen siny week-
end bur rowing-
on any Sydney
golf course of
the old order.
Jj! Jji
“Divot Dig-
ger'’ : Manly,
one of Sydney’s
oldest and big-
gest golf clnbs,
is noted for the
many fine tro-
phies which are
annually offered
for competition.
One of these is
the Salonica
Cup, given by
the widow in
memory of a
member named
Heffernan, who
joined up with
the A.I.F. and
was killed at
Salonica. Th e
Cup is played
for annually in
a 36-hole stroke
li an d i cap. It
remains the
club’s property
in perpetuity,
but each win-
ner receives a
replica. M r s.
Heffernan, by
the way, was
moved to the
presentation by
the assiduity
with which the
then secretary
of the club, E.
Du ret, kept up
a personal cor-
r e s p o n d e nee
with all his
members at the
front. His let-
ters were appre-
ciated by every-
one, and by
none more than the Salonica recipient.
“Hoylake”: According to the Yankee
press, Bobby Jones, following on his appear-
ance in the movies, has been offered a con-
tract to tour in vaudeville with Joe Kirk-
wood, the salary for the team being stated
as £l6OO a week. Joe has been making good
money in this way for years—it is said, by
the way, that he has lost a lot of it in
a ba.nk smash—but his exhibitions have been
demonstrations of the trick golf in which
he excels. Jones has no parlor tricks of
the sort, and would presumably supply the
serious part of the show. However, Bobby
has not accepted the offer to date, but. con-
sidering that he has been ranked with the
professionals since his movie stunt, he will
probably see his way to sign on the dotted
line shortly.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: Matches between motor-cars,
popular in the early days of motoring, seem
to have dropped out of favor, just as has
been the case with the old-time sport of
matching racehorses. Someone has been re-
calling a famous affair of 1905, when Paul
Mcyan, editor of a French motoring jour-
nal, challenged any British owner to com-
pete with his 24-li.p. De Dietrich over 3107
miles (5000 kilometres) for a purse of
10,000 francs, then worth £4OO. J. D. Sid-
deley backed one of his own 18-h.p. cars to
do the trick, Graham White, later famous as
an aviator, driving. Each day’s run was
about 200 miles, to be covered in 12 hours,
drivers reporting to officials every 31 miles.
A two-hour stop was allowed for lunch, but
if either driver failed to reach his destination
by 7 p.m. the match was lost. All repairs
and adjustments had to be done on the road.
The match was a tie, neither White nor
Meyan, who drove his own car, dropping a
point.
:|: * * *
“H’otham”: Victorian motor-cyclists are
tuning up for the annual Grand I’rix on the
Phillip Island circuit on February 1. The
programme will comprise a 100-mile senior
solo race for all-power machines and a oO-
miler for juniors under 350-c.c. capacity. In
addition there will be a side-car champion-
ship over 25 miles. The track will be the
same as last year, the lap being 01 miles, and
prize money for the three events totals ibo,
entries closing on January 23.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: For some time the
methods employed by the “stipes” at motor-
cycle meetings for regulating flying starts
have proved unsatisfactory, with the result
that riders have been carpeted for ignoring
the stop-flag or other signals in the case ot
false starts. It is suggested that the Eng-
lish method of the “back” line or “accelera-
tion mark” be adopted here. This _is
drawn across the track at a distance behind
the starting line, and when the last of the
riders passes' it no appeal is allowed. The
system proved successful in England after a
method of starting from a platform of wooden
rollers, from which the machines cleared
themselves when a certain number of revs,
had been attained, was abandoned —when the
machine hit the track, the back wheel was
going at about 50 m.p.li. and jigger and rider
were apt to take a toss.
v :!•
“Offset” : J. V. Pugh, head serang of the
Rudge-Whitworth firm, is of the opinion that
it will not be long before the motor-cycle has
outed the motor-car in the matter of speed
records. The trouble is that the international
body which controls motor-cycling has limited
the size of m.-c. engines to 100 c.c. Pugh is
of the opinion that very much larger engines
can successfully be installed in motor-cycles,
and points out that owing to the gyroscopic
researches of Louis Brennan a two-wheeled
single-track machine is much safer at high
speeds than a two-track four-wheeler. The
bike has a long way to go, all the same, for,
at time of writing, the car record is just
about 100 m.p.li. ahead of the motor-cycle’s.
Miscellaneous
“Der Jong”: The young South African
sprinter D. J. Joubert, who is bracketed
with American Frank Wykoff as holder of
the world’s record of 0 2-ssec„ has been the
centre of a teacup storm in Union athletic
circles. A team from the American univer-
sities recently toured South Africa, and the
local athletic authorities forbade any South
African to compete against them for more
than one team. Joubert was already down
for a Transvaal team, but the S. A. Uni-
versities’ Federation claimed him. This the
Union authorities would not concede, where-
upon the Uni. heads threatened to declare
the meetings at Jo’burg, Bloemfontein and
Capetown “black.” As the ’Varsities harbor
most of the cream of South African athletes,
the Union authorities backed down, but
with very bad grace.
$ # * sic
The Australian National Games, which
begin in Melbourne on January 30, follow
close on the heels of the Australian cham-
pionships to be held in Sydney, and in conse-
quence the necessity for holding them is not
apparent. If the distances for swimmers
and track athletes had been marked in
metres, there would have been something in
the claim that the times would give a line
on Olympic possibilities. It was decided,
however, to stick to the old yards and feet
measurements, with the result that the games
will be merely a repetition of the Svdnev
championships as far as track and field
events are concerned. The boxing, wrestling,
swimming and cycling trials, which make up
the balance of the show, would have been
just as effective if held separately.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Bias”: Even bowlers have their secret
sorrows. Recently one of them wrote to a
Sydney journal bewailing the fact that the
Victorians still persist in using the cocoanut
fibre mat, which is obsolete elsewhere. As
the complainant says, the fibre mat not only
wears out the shoes but causes the soles to
become shiny and slippery, with the result
that when a player makes an extra vigorous
effort his feet are apt to slip from under
him; in short, “stability disappears.” There
is something in the contention. Writer has
often noted a curious lack of stability among
bowlers towards the end of a long and thirsty
day, but it has never occurred to him that
possibly a cocoanut mat was to blame.
* * * *
“Blade”: The rowing associations of the
various States have agreed to the Victorian
request that the next race for the King’s
Cup be shortened from three miles to two and
a half, in consequence of the Yarra course
having been curtailed by the erection of the
Spencer-street Bridge. It is questionable
whether the time has not come for the Yarra
to be banned as a venue for this important
race. At its best the narrow stream, with
its sharp bends, is not suited to the boating
of half a dozen eights at one time. N.S.YV.
some years ago shifted its big regattas from
the Parramatta at Sydney to the much better
course on the Nepean. It was proposed to
transfer at least some of the Vic. rowing-
events to Lake Colac, on the Melbourne-
Warm arnbooi line, but the matter blew out.
As a gate-money proposition any country
centre would, of course, be far mferioi to
the Yarra.
“Richmond” : Victoria, better .supplied
with rowing clubs than any of the other
States, is to have another, composed of rowin*
members of the Defence forces The new
body will be known as the United Seivjce
Rowing Association, but will enter c
for registered regattas as the U. S. Rowing
Club.
... * *
“Hamilton Reach”: Queensland, having
mopped up the Australian 12- and 16-footer
championships, is all out to regain the lo-
footer title won in Sydney last year by the
local boat Arrawatta. The latter will
defend her title in the hands of Charlie
ITayes and will have for a mate another
nippy craft in Australia, which will be skip-
pered by Billy Fisher. The boats will be
shipped for Brisbane next week, the crews
following by train. Sydney Flying Squadron
: s subsidising each boat with £l2 10s.. but
flu; balance which the trip will cost, some
£SB, will have to be found by the owners and
the crews.


Perfect beauty
comes to your hair when the
rich, pure nourishment of Row-
land’s Macassar Oil gives it the
beauty of perfect health.
O f Chemists,
Stores and
Hairdressers,
S/6, 7/- and
10/6. Red for
dark hair,
golden for fair
or grey hair.
R!
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.I,
J. H. & CO.
ENGLAND.
MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
I
<r
frfe pattern
every week
The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local,
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
Tliere'd be. flags flying from one end of
Macquarie-street to the other to-morrow if
the doctors really dared to let themselves go.
For eight months almost every other patient
has said, “Well, doctor, Urn afraid I’ll have
to ask you first what you’ll charge. You
see, all my. money is locked up in the Sav-
ings Bank, and I wouldn’t be able to pay
you anything at all for some weeks.”' Arid
the. doctor never could sort out. those whose
money really was locked up from those who
were using the closed-up Savings Bank as
the luckiest excuse of a lifetime. To-morrow
the safe-doors will swing open, and Mac-
quarie-street won’t hear any more of the tale
which lias kept its bread -very thinly buttered
since April of last year.
One hundred women who do things with
artistic; and civic significance gave former
Mayoress. Jackson a farewell lunch last Fri-
day. The ballroom of the Arts Club bloomed
with masses of deeply-blue hydrangea and
its shyly blushing pink sisters. There were
long tables down each side of the room, and
one facing the stage. Here a programme of
music, song and recitation held the boards for
three-quarters of an hour, the artists doing
their bit; to show appreciation of a Mayoress
who has taken not only an official but a per-
sonal interest in tlieir efforts. Maorilander
Iva Clarke, Mrs. Harry Twigden and the
pretty Browillow Sisters were the singers;
Gladys Hart played the accompaniments and
Mrs. James recited. Mrs. Arthur Scrivener
organised the party, Mrs. Florence Taylor,
with adequate verbal decoration, handed over
the album autographed by all the company,
and Hilda Marks added her quota of compli-
ments.
Russet and emerald, the great hands of
the Floral Clock moved to one just as this
Letter stopped beside it the other day.
Instantly a cuckoo’s call floated from the
high air, and there was the bird perched in
a near-by gum ! Of it isn’t a real
one, and the call is a bit of the mechanism
concealed beneath a rocky cave within the
Clock enclosure; but that doesn’t matter —
the effect is terrifically impressive on the
wide-eyed young who visit the Zoo.
It is really this attention to detail which
lias made Sydney Zoo the most beautiful in
the world. Not content to let the fluent
lapis lazuli and the crouching little green
hills, of Port. Jackson spread tlieir glories
at its feet, the trustees, aspiring as any
film star, have everywhere made beauty more
beautiful. Great red and orange eannas
march with you, banners flying from top
to bottom gates. The roses by the kiosk
and elsewhere dazzle with their opulence.
Impossible to believe, watching their calm
beauty, that within a stone’s throw there
are lions and tigers that would scrunch you,
spine, Eugenie hat and all, as easily as
you scrunch the fragrant lunch-roll.
Those zoo lunch-foils - are made on the
spot—in a bakehouse so well equipped that
the housewife sighs for envy. All the bread
(as many as three hundred loaves on a
holiday), sponges, pies and cakes consumed
in the kiosk are the output of this gauze-
netted, flyless, oil-fuelled bakery. The pud-
dings arid custards with which sick animals
are coaxed are made by a chef who never
turns a hair when lie is called on for a rice
pudding, hippo, size.
Nothing else approaches the monkeys for
popularity—especially the “spiders,” all born
showmen—but some of the bird-liomes are
never without tlieir little group of ’watchers.
To be: quite honest, though, any rather
scrawny white cockatoo which' tells you con-
fidentially that he’d love a biscuit is much
more in favor than the most startlingly
colored macaw which S. America ever sent
us, or the richest treasures looted from the
jungles of New Guinea.
In "Sinister-street,” on top of the hill,
live the .great eagleliawks ■ (do you know
Australia grows the largest eagles in the
world?), and they have such pleasant neigh-
bors as. the kite-hawk and the vultures. These
inhabitants turned a bleary and obscene eye
on the passer-by, seeming to say : “What a
very nice corpse you’d make!” 'They’ve got
the hippopotamus for a neighbor ; and some-
how he seems to tone in very well.. (i But
wbrkmen will soon be busy in that .‘region.
So far the hippo, has had a mere bachelor
flat. But plans are out for a new bungalow
with; twin beds; and you can guess what
that means.
*• ■ ' - J 1
What the, mother spider-monkey doesn’t
know aboutibaby welfare Dr./Watson Munro
couldn’t: teach; her.. Not .until her child is
18 months old will she leave it out of her
chargeone day this Letter saw > a lady
gerifly; take a pifece of bread out of baby's
hand because she: knew baby couldn’t
digest it. j-
Jessie, the elephant," a sort of jungle Juno,
good-naturedly carries her cargoes of young-
sters through the long summer hours. She
never points out that she is penalised for her
good nature, that had she the disposition of
a tiger or a panther her every day would
be a holiday. As it is, holidays but increase
her burden. Still, she doesn’t have to do all
the burden-carrying these- days. She’s got
tlief; competition of a scenic railway, and
there’s rio Transport Commission to declare
the newcomer a dies non, or whatever they
call it.\
Jolly as sandboys, 7(1 schoolgirls from
W.A. have been looking us over with the
eyes of youth. Their navy-blue coats are
blazoned with a •goldeii swan, their hats are
white and useful for sun-glare, and they all
seem to walk to tlie beat of very gay music.
This schoolgirl tour will take in Adelaide,
Melbourne and Canberra; in all, the girls
will have five weeks of travel. It's not too
soori that something of the kind was done
for sister.; until now brother lias had most
of these jaunting plums dropped into his
mouth. There are eight guardians of the
little compafiy, and the capable Miss Ilooten,
foundation secretary of the Parents • and
Citizens’ Federation of W.A., is the travel
director. Sydney gave The young'things a
reception at the Town Hall,: when the new
Mayoress, Mrs. Walder, helped? her husband
receive the visitors. Government House
threw its portals wide, and Sir Philip, his
lady and son Philip came up from Sutton
Forest Tor the : event. The girls weren’t
shy ; they produced albums and
had them blazoned with vice-regal signa-
tures, they “did” the coats of arms and the
portraits of past Governors, they passed
judgment on the views, and finally they took
in their tea with every appearance of
enjoyment.
This good-looking dark-haired girl was
known to Sydney as Patricia, the handsome
second daughter of the Bertie Kellys. Now
she is the wife
of Gualtierro
Volterra, one
of the bril-
liant younger
pi a nists of
Europe. From
early clii 1 d-
hood Patricia
showed that
she had in-
herited li e r
father’s talent
for music, but
her family
had never sus-
pected her of
literary gifts.
A few months
ago, however,
she surprised
her 1 i 111 e
world by put-
ting Munthe’s
“San Michele”
into Italian. Dr. Munthe declares her
translation is the best that has been done—
a great compliment, because “San Michele”
has been translated into every European
language. The book, you wITI remember,
was written by the author in English,
though he himself is a Swede. The Italian
translation has been published by Treves.
Do you remember being introduced to
Jacques, who was 31b. weight when the
Tresillian mothercraft home at Petersham
took charge of him at his birth just over
11 months ago ? To save the poor prema-
ture mite’s life seemed pretty hopeless for
months: no breath [of wind could be allowed
to blow upon him,'and he was quite incap-
able of taking food in the ordinary way—it
woiild have been too exhausting, anyhow.
And there lie lay in his cotton wool week
after week. But so close a watch was kept
over, him, and so wonderful the attention
he received, that he thrived; and when in
a week- or so he has his first birthday he
will weigh 141 b., and will show himself to
be as bright as any normally-brought-up
infant. It is a great performance.
Dr. Otto Nothling. arid Mildred Mel-
ville 'H'orsburgh, of Maryborough (Q.),
have just become engaged. The doctor
represented. Queensland in cricket arid
N.S.W. in Bugby Union footer, and was such
a sound full-back that lie represented the
latter State on several occasions, against
Maoriland. Later ,he was in the Queensland
(■ticket eleven and in' 1928 he played in Syd-
ney in.the Test match against England. The
girl in the case is a daughter of one of
Queensland’s old families which lately gave
the N.T. a chief commissioner,
Stella Davies, for years the active little
secretary of the Day Nursery Association, has
gone off by the Oronsay to study at the- Insti-
tute ••of •’ Almoners .in London, having been
picked for the work by the Hospital Commis-
sion and the Children’s Hospital. Eileen
Luke has been appointed to the Day Nur-
series in her place. Eileen lias for eight years
been treasurer for love of the Emma Dixson
nursery at Surry Hills.
It was left to a girl player from Litligow
to introduce the divided skirt to the Lawn
Tennis Association’s ground at. Ruskcutter
Bay during Country Tennis Week. The
wearer was Miss D. Hingley, who was a
devotee also of the no-stocking fashion, fav-
ored, too, by the girls from Narrabri. Very
few of the players went in for the blouse
with the cut-away back; mostly the blouses
were high at the back, and the neck between
hat and collar was further protected with
scarves. The scarves, stitched linen hats and
gay blazers supplied animated color to the
sun-splashed courts.
For three days in February, the 12tli to
the 14th, old Parramatta is going to be
over-run by old boys who once knew every
hole in every orchard fence in the district;
for the King’s School centenary celebrations
are set for that week-end. On Friday (12th)
there are to be cricket and golf and d’you-
remeoiber matches, with a centenary dinner
in the evening. On the Saturday—the real
hundredth anniversary of the opening of
the school —there will be more cricket arid
tennis and swimming and rowing and more
d’you-remember; and on the Sunday a special
morning service at St. John’s, with the
centenary .service in the school chapel in the
afternoon, and evening tea. Old boys wish-
ing to take part should write at once to
the Old Boys’ Union, Warwick Buildings,
Hamilton-street.
In the last show of the International
Salon of Photographic Art in Paris, there
were four photographs, the joint work of Mr.
and Mrs. Shelton O’Reilly, of Port Moresby.
Mr. O’Reilly
took them, and
in each case
his wife (the
smiling lady
of this pic-
ture) was his
model. Tw o
of the photo-
graphs were
symbolic, “The
Vampire” and
“The Dance
of Death”;
the other two
were figure
studies. On e
was taken in a
mangrove pool,
with alligators
lying close by.
The artistry
of the photo-
graphs. with
the wild beauty
of the settings along the coast, of Papua, made
a great appeal to the art critics of Paris, and
various illustrated magazines reproduced
them. Mr. O’Reilly is in the “service” ; and
Mrs. O’Reilly’s happiest hours are those
when, clad in shorts and shirt, she joins her
husband on his survey trips.
Mrs. Boh Brough, who died suddenly in
her Cronulla garden last week, was one of
Sydney’s prominent social figures 30-odd
years ago. When the Fitzwilliam Went-
worths were living at Greycliffc, and Hills,
Longs, Martins and Von Arnheims used to
crowd to their Sunday parties at The lint,
she and her husband were always amongst
those present. She was in her heyday m
the late ’nineties, but., in the opinion of the
late Edmund Fisher, was never a great artist,
though she got much reflected glory from her
husband. Seen casually in the street she and
Bob Brough always suggested an English
squire and his lady making a foreign tour.
She dropped out of the public eye after her
second marriage, and had rarely been seen in
Sydney during recent years.
Wirriau, which the O. E. Friends have let
to the Bertie Kellys, is a big, recently-built
place standing in grounds that were origin-
ally part of Cranbrook. It has some attrac-
tive harbor views, despite the houses in
between, and a big drawing-room convertible
into a ballroom, in which the Claude Parbnrys
gave a farewell party when they had the
place five years ago. The Kellys have never
owned a house in Sydney since Glenyarrah
was sold to the Bruntons. They rented
Qharlie Fairfax’s home on Bellevue Hill for
some years. Then Mrs. Kelly went abroad to
supervise the education of the children, and
Mr. Kelly retired to a club.
Mrs. Kelly is the brainiest and most pic-
turesque leader Sydney society has had
since Mrs. Burdekin died. Her energy is
dynamic and her interests are astonishingly
diverse. Like Mrs. Norman Brookes, of
Melbourne, she has published some interest-
ing novels. She runs a house to perfection,
and her dinners were as celebrated as Mrs.
Phil Morton’s in pre-war days. She is a
natural organiser and leader, and can talk
knowledgeably in several languages on art,
music, the stage (Sydney first met her as
“Madame Butterfly”), books and politics,
home and foreign.
\ou may call the infant anything you
please, but, for health's sake, don’t kiss it
Dr. Dick, the Director-General of Health’
has been begging us. Infantile paralysis of
which we are suffering the worst epidemic
for years, is caused by infection tlirou°li
the nose and throat; and the great danger
is that the adult may be a carrier of the
disease, though not actually smitten with
it. Still, adults have been affected in this
epidemic, and the cases have been neither
fatal nor very serious. First symptoms are
gastro-intestinal disturbance, followed ni
three or four days by headache, drowsiness
and stiffness of the back ; then the paralysis
shows itself quite suddenly, and usually to
its full extent.
Mrs. Blake, whose fans are among the
treasures of Australia’s art galleries, is
another who, finding that being in for a
pound (Australian) meant more like being
in for a penny in France these days, decided
on coming back to her native land, after
two years of travel and study. Wherever
she wandered she met Australians. She went
to Serrieres, in the valley of the Rhone, to
study cubism in the studio of Gleizes, and
found one working even there—Anne
Dangar it was, formerly of Julian Ashton’s
school. In London, Mrs. Blake decided
to make some copies of Old Masters, and
while she was working on “La Premiere
Sortie,” by Renoir, in the Tate Gallery, the
director (Mr. Milbank) came and congratu-
lated her on her work, then took her up-
stairs and showed her the Gallery’s most
sacred treasures. He introduced her to
Lucien Pissarro, son of the famous Camille
Pissarro. Will Ashton used to visit the
Pissarro homes in London and on the Riviera
- —the artist goes south for the summer. Here,
under Pissarro's influence, Mrs. Blake painted
much, especially in the fishing villages.
Mrs. Blake’s father —Captain Greaves, of
Bondi —was one of the pioneers of the cul-
tivation of our bush flowers in garden ways.
He had five acres of garden, and here, in
addition to roses, lilies, carnations and such
cultured blooms, the flannel flower and wara-
tah found a place.
Mrs. Henry Charles Osborne and Mrs.
Sam Hardy, well known to Sydneyites of a
decade ago as the Macarthur twins, are once
again united. Mrs. Sam Hardy arrived in
Sydney by the Mongolia last week with her
small son, and lias dug in at Hampton Court.
Already there is fair hotel booking for
this year’s Easter, when the Bridge open-
ing will pack a few thousands more into
the city’s accommodation-houses. Inter-
State and country visitors who find a fort-
night’s notice ample, as a rule, are warned
accordingly.
Queensland quips:—
Ann Blundell, a very charming Brisbane society
girl, announces her engagement to John Paget, only
son of the M. J. Pagets, of Woking, Surrey.
The Pacific and Grand Hotels at Southport had
holiday balls on the same night. Amongst the bright
froekjng was Mrs. Wyndham Pike’s handsome gown
of maize with a red design. Mrs. Hendry Drew’s
tango gold silk had touches of black; Mrs. R. M.
Gow wore wistaria with a deeper-toned pattern;
Mrs. Leonard Power was in amber and turquoise;
Mrs. E. F. Powers was in pale blue; Mrs. C. A.
Thelander chose white; Mrs. Pirie Fegan wore
cameo pink ; Lilian Walsh’s beige mariette was pat-
terned in l ose and green; Nell Cole was in cobweb
lace; Alice Loder wore white and pink; Ella
O’Shea’s ivory mousseline had a draped stole collar;
Ray Moni chose snowflake organdie ; Dorothy Webster,
ivory Canton crepe; Kitty Street wore painted mari-
ette ; Marjorie Sapsford was in white and silver.
A Longreach wedding was that of A. C. Ilurkett
to Muriel Carter. The bride, who was given away
by her father, was in ivory bridal satin and her veil
was of ’broidered tulle. V. I. and D. C. Carter
and B. McAdam ’maided in lemon crepe de Chine,
apricot and mauve georgette respectively. The
Presbyterian Church saw the ceremony and the
Shire Hall the feasting.
Mildred May Smith, a Queensland Uni. graduate,
was married to Allan Campbell Small, of the staff
of Hawkesbury Agricultural College, at the Albert-
street Methodist Church. The bride, who was given
away by her brother, was in ivory tosca net with
silver broideries. Audrey Smith ’maided in green
mariette with green yedda hat. The reception was
at the palm court of the Canberra. Southport and
the Northern Rivers see the ’moon.
At Ascot races yellow and red zinnias and orange
marigold glowed in the bright sunshine at the back
of the lawn. Amongst the smartly gowned were
Mrs. E. G. Blume, in sky-blue with cream and
black hat; Mrs. M. L. Reading, in red, white and
blue crepe de Chine; Tessa Reading, in grey with
a blue hat; Mrs. Strangeman Beale, in pale green
linen; Mrs. E. A. Culpin, in leaf-green lawn
patterned in gold and pink ; Hildagunde von Ploen-
nies, in ivory knoppe silk with brown hat, and
Betty Stewart, in ivory crepe de Chine with touches
of scarlet. Brigadier-General and Mrs. E. M. Ralph,
the Cadell Garricks, the Cecil Palmers, the Canning
Downs Baineses and the Isaac Moores were amongst
the throng.
Her many friends heard with deep regret of the
death of the wife of the Dean of St. John’s Cathedral,
Rev. H. H. Dixon. The deceased lady was married in
England in 1897 and came to Queensland with
her husband two years later. Together they opened
the Southport Boys’ School in 1901. Mrs. Dixon
keenly interested herself in all charitable matters.


Position Wanted.
VT7 ANTED. —Position nurse-companion, by
” experienced nurse, bright, musical. —
MISS RIZZI, Walcha Road, N.S.W.
RADIO B BATTERIES
U TORCH REFILLS
h[eu) es&etter"" , v \\P ggt ' c - rS '
SOCIAL hiw
I aOY’S LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD. v
Etc Etc. LTC. It
theaustralasiah
ON SALE ALL STATES O;
A QUICK JOB FOR THE
LYONS GOVERNMENT.
Cut, off that stolen £4OO. a y ar Cm the
salaries of all Federal Member; of Parliament.
Here’s a chance to prove that economy is
reallv intended, and to set an example of it
for public and' private employees to follow.
Read about this in last Saturday’s
“BARRIER MINER,”
the daily newspaper of Broken Hill and the
Far. West, where mejropplit :;i newspapers are
practically’unknown 'and unnoticed.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
The Chatterer alighted lately upon Flin-
ders, 60 miles from Melbourne. Unlike
other holiday resorts on Western Port,
Flinders can boast no long beaches; the
chief distractions it offers are golf, surfing,
fishing and trips around the Seal Rocks.
The links spread over acres of flat country
on the ocean side, and then rise abruptly
to the end of the peninsula, whei-e there
is a hole known as Spion Kop. This
part of the links is a favorite camping-
ground. The beach around the Western
Port side is somewhat grey and uninviting,
and is infested with sharks attracted
by the fishing smacks, but there are a
couple of safe bathing pools between the
rocks where the waves come in from the
ocean and Bass Strait. Seaside pyjamas
aren’t popular at Flinders, nor is sun-
baking a pastime. It is a place where it
always seems to be Sunday afternoon, peace-
ful and picturesque. The well-kept gardens
of the many private homes have a fine back-
ground of magnificent old pine-trees, and
the sea is for ever changing its greens and
blues. The little R. C. church at Sliore-
ham, about four miles away, gives a cheery
flick of color to the picture, with buff walls
picked out in dark green. Once upon a time
Flinders boasted a cable station. It is now-
used as a boarding-liouse. The village con-
sists of a couple of general stores, a post
office and a very good pub.
Among the people who have built them-
selves holiday homes at Flinders are Dr.
H. B. Devine, the J. J. Fogartys, Mr. and
Mrs. C. J. Ahern and , Colonel and Mrs.
Eric Harrison, all of whom were in resi-
dence with their families when the Chat-
terer dropped in. Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton
Fitts have a bungalow with a beautiful
garden at Shoreham, and the Clive Leonards
have an attractive place opposite. Mrs. Val
Macdonald and her son David have been
occupying Colin Simpson’s house.
At Rosebud, which is on the bay on the
way to Portsea, there is a community camp,
Hindhope Park, founded by Mr. and Mrs.
Espie on the lines advocated by Alice Currie,
who was delighted when she happened to
light upon the establishment in which so
many of her ideas are embodied. Laid out
within a few minutes of a safe bathing beach
sheltered by pine and tea-trees are 15 com-
fortable sleeping chalets. There are kit-
chens and dining-rooms and also a large cen-
tral reception-hall, with lighting and
water laid on. Visitors bring their own bed-
linen and cutlery and cook their own break-
fasts and teas, but the mid-day meal is usually
prepared for them. A feature of the locality
is the old bay steamer Hygeia, which is
stranded a short distance from the beach.
Bathers find it makes an excellent diving-
platform.
Brightest and busiest of all our seaside
resorts just now is Lome, whose beaches are
gay every fine day with the latest in postage-
stamp bathing-suits and jazz pyjamas. Many
Western District people have holiday resi-
dences at Lome, among them Mrs. Janies
Russell, of Barunah Plains. Dr. and Mrs.
Otto Bayer, of Colac, are at their cottage.
Mayor and Mrs. G- S. Cunningham have
taken a house there for some weeks, and
Mr. Justice Lowe and Mrs. Lowe are in
residence. Dr. and Mrs. Chenhall, of Sydney,
and Mr. and Mrs. W. W. McGregor, of Adel-
aide, are visitors.
A three-day tennis tournament has held
the stage at Mt. Macedon, where .some of
our society folk have holiday homes fash-
ioned on even more luxurious lines than
residences in the city. The gardens of the
Mount, of course, are famous throughout
the State. Janet Landale and Margery
Stephens organised the tourney, which was
a charity affair. Many residents, including
Mrs. George Landale, Mrs. Chris .Cowper
and Mrs. Herbert Wertheim, lent their
private courts. Miss Stephens, the dainty and
dark-haired daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Doug-
las Stephens, was winner of the singles, the
runner-up being Deidre, the tall, handsome
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Tom Grantham.
The exclusive mountain resort is full of
visitors, and there is in progress a round of
small dances and bridge parties.
A feature of the seaside resorts around
Melbourne is the use that has been made of
the tea-tree. A rather ragged-looking bush
in its wild state, it lias been cultivated and
trimmed until it forms attractive hedges, an
adornment to large and small holdings alike,
and its dull-green foliage makes an effective
foil for the emerald brightness of a well-
kept lawn. In several public tea-gardens
these trees give protection from the sun’s
rays, and they go well with gaily-striped
chairs and colored tablecloths. The tea-tree
isn’t suited to the very small garden, since
its meandering roots draw greedily upon
the soil for nourishment, but in a suitable
environment it is both decorative and useful.
Violet, daughter of Mrs. G. D. Upjohn,
Toorak, was handed by her brother, Dr. W.
D. Upjohn, into the safe-keeping of Edgar
Richard Staley, of Bendigo. The bride wore
ivory satin and tulle, and Mrs. W. D. Upjohn
was attendant matron of honor in gown and
millinery blending tones of golden-brown.
At the early-in-December wedding in
London of Joan, daughter of the late Cap-
tain and Mrs. Reginald Clarke, of Mel-
bourne, and John Francis St. Barbe Bar-
clay, white silk crepe, beautifully cut, was
worn by the bride, whose tulle veil was
attached to a floral coronet. H’er six
attendant maids, all Australians, sported
white spotted net frocks with amber velvet
sashes that matched their wreaths. There
were a small page and trainbearer, the latter
Muffet Clarke, daughter of Lady Bective-
(widow of Baronet Rupert Clarke). The
after-reception was at Mrs. Claude Mac-
donald’s house in Lancaster Gate.
Violinist Pietro Sarcoli, who came from
Italy about seven years ago, is returning to
his homeland by the Ormonde and will join
the Rome broadcasting orchestra. H’e pre-
vailed upon Alice M. Harris, daughter of the
late Mr. and Mrs. Charles Harris, of St.
Ivilda, to share his fortunes overseas, and
the matrimonial knot was tied at St. Pat’s
Cathedral on the eve of their departure.
The engagement is announced of Eliot,
eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. Eliot Lewis,
of Frankston, and Barbara, daughter of the
J. Couper Johnstones, of Armadale.
The annual prize of five guineas for com-
position awarded by the Old Students’
Association of the Uni. Con. lias been
won by Clive Douglas, who has just con-
cluded with first-class honors the third year
of his diploma course. Runner-up was Cicely
Kelly, who hails from the Apple Isle and
has written several attractive little songs.
The new* Italian Consul, Cavaliere Enrico
Anzillotti, comes here from the Italian
Legation in Cairo. He is a bachelor and
a graduate of Oxford. Motor-racing, golf
and swimming are among his sporting
hobbies, and, of course, he has seen military
service. He is to act for S.A. and W.A.
as well as Vic.
A Tasmanian, Madame Aida Seuac, a
sister of YV. R. Rolph, proprietor of the
“Launceston Examiner,” who since her mar-
riage has resided in France, is revisiting
the Apple Isle to see her mother and other
relatives.
Mrs. Purves Smith and her daughter
Jocelyn return this week from Europe after
a lengthy absence.
Mr. and Mrs. Jimmy Dyer, returned from
Paris, wdiere they have resided for the last
few years, have to face many formal wel-
comes. The lady in particular has already
accepted several invitations, among them one
to a reception by the Alliance Frangaise, of
which she was president. The branch of
the British Music Society which she estab-
lished lias booked the Lyceum Club for a
party in, her honor, and the L. A. B. Club,
of which she was also president, will stage
a massed greeting. The Dyers are occupy-
ing Miss Kate Pearce’s flat, at Myoora,
Toorak.
As this Page was going to press Bertha
Ballenger was due to put in an appearance
after three years abroad. A daughter of
the late Colonel Ballenger and of Mrs.
Ballenger, of Kew, she took up a theatrical
career, being last seen here as an actress
with the Muriel Starr co., but. she later
became attracted to the producing side of
the profession. In the U; S.A. she is gener-
ally to be found with her special friend
Ruth Chatterton, of talkie fame, and in
Europe is usually with her sister, Myrtle
Ballenger that was, now- married and living
in a chateau. Miss Ballenger’s present mis-
sion in Australia is to manage the concert
tour of a French violinist, Mdlle. Frangoise
Mores.
Broothorn pictures here Mrs. R. G. Casey,
wife of Major Casey, whose first flutter in
politics resulted in liis return as M.H.R.
for Oorio in
the U.A.P.
interest. Mrs.
Casey is a
da u g liter of
the late medi-
cal knight
Charles Ryan,
who was
P.M.O. of the
Vic. forces
during the
Great Wa r.
She has lived
abroad a good
deal, and re-
sided in Lon-
don wlie n
Major Casey
was liaison
officer between
the British
and Australian
G o v ernments.
Th e Caseys
have a small daughter and a son who is just a
few wrneks old.
After the long vacation Prof. W. N. Ker-
not takes over the, Chair of Engineering at
the local shop from Prof. Henry Payne,
Dean of the Faculty since 1910, who is
retiring. With his wife Prof. Payne will
settle down in their home at Healesville, but
will retain a flat in Melbourne.
A former Melbournite, Mrs. Arthur Mar-
shall, of Bournemouth, England, is visit-
ing this city after 12 years’ absence, accom-
panied by her husband, who is making his
first acquaintance with Australia. They
are at Lister House, and intend returning
to England in May by way of Maori land
and the Panama Canal. Mrs. Marshall
gathered many of her old friends for a
tea-party at Frankston the other day, and is
scattering invitations for a billy-boiling at
the Quamby.
Edna and Alva, daughters of Louis Ilatten-
bach, of the Uni. Con., have set off for a
trip to Colombo to gather energy for another
year of orchestra-playing, broadcasting and
teaching.
Captain and Mrs. Kenrick have returned
after a year’s sojourn in England and will
stay awhile at Tasma, Parliament-place,
before re-occupying their home at Lome.
There is no permanency in this changing
world, and even the Block is altering its
face. Stewart Dawson’s, on the corner of
Collins and Swanston streets, is being demol-
ished, and forms a daily continuous show
for those people who are fascinated by the
sight of other folk toiling. The dismantling
of the many shops began with the first
minutes of the new year and is now nearly
complete. Rebuilding will go on day and
night, and in a very few months we shall
have forgotten how that corner looked for
so many years. Features of the rebuilding
are to be an arcade and a tower.
Miss Tompkins and Miss Burrows, who
specialise in hand-painted china, have a
special show of their wares at their Collins-
street studio. Tea-sets with coffee cups
matching, are among the novelties on view.
Some lovely colorings have been achieved.
A vase with delphiniums blending into a
shaded blue background is noteworthy in this
respect. Australian flowers find a place in
many of the decorative designs used.
An Australian exiled in London writes of
the marvellous bargains to be picked up at
auction sales, which, as a result of heavy tax-
ation, are being held in so many of the
stately homes of England. On one of these
estates where the Prince of Wales was a
regular visitor, the lodge is empty, likewise
the houses of the former tenantry; the noble
owner had put most of his movable effects
into the hands of an auctioneer and taken up
residence in a farm on the property. Six
lovely old mahogany chairs, charmingly up-
holstered, were bought by the exile for £l7.
and a wondrous sideboard fell to her bid of
£3 15s.
The Boy Scouts out Mornington way have
now a whole park of their own to scout in,
an 80-acre pleasaunce at Mount Martha, the
gift of that great friend of the scouting
movement Mrs. Pitt. Knight George Fair-
bairn opened the park in the presence of
a fair-sized crowd and there were speeches
by county council members and scout
officers. The park, which commands a nice
view of the bay, is at present the scene of
a scout camp in which are troops from
Frankston and other neighboring hamlets.
The place, naturally beautiful, is being
improved by tree-planting.
This determined-looking person is Jiro
Satoh, who has arrived in our midst to repre-
sent Japan in
a tennis tour-
ney against
Australia. He
is, or was, a
student of the
University of
W a s e d a.
T o k i o. He
won the singles
c h ampionship
of Nippon last
year, and has
recently taken
part in con-
tests at Wim-
bledon. The
Japanese So-
ciety welcomed
Mr. Satoh on
h i s arrival,
and the Lawn
Tennis Asso-
ciation of Vic-
toria whisked
him off for ’an informal luncheon.
Y Emma is occupying the tail-end of the
holiday season with its summer training
school, located this year at St. Margaret, s
seminary, Berwick. About 50 young women
from all over Australia are taking classes?,
a wide range of subjects being covered. Mrs.
Peter McCallum is hostess, and those in
charge of the various arrangements include
Mrs. David Munro ; Miss Griffin,. national
general sec.; Constance Tisdall; Miss D.
Newby-Fraser, of Sydney; Mary Godlee, of
Adelaide : Greta Mott, Amy Carver and Miss
Imria. The groundwork was done by Miss
M. Godfrey, Y Emma’s educational secre-
tary. Recreation has been planned as en-
thusiastically as study, and the girls appear
to be having a great time.
The dear little black velvet coat is going
to be übiquitous for evening wear. Now,
don’t smile complacently, remembering the
hip-length sort-of-smoking-jacket thing you
have in your wardrobe. That won’t do at
all. The really smart and young coat
finishes at the waist: moreover, it fits, and
is often finished off with two ends that, tie
in a bow, or with a bow that’s permanent.
It is cut in long lapels in the front, so
that the neck gets a chance to show it’s of
the Annie Laurie variety. The cuffs are
wide, blips, starting, as it were, out of these
coats, are terribly important, and must be
kept in their place. White frocks, ankle-
length and clinging as far as the knee, are
so smart as to be a temptation to any
woman over 20 and under 70. Coats are
imposing and luxurious —the most important
part of the evening’s outfit.
Five hundred years or more ago some
monk decided to put all his art and craft
into the Book of Hours, auctioned recently
at Laseron’s. It is about the size of, a novel
and contains a collection of the most enthral-
ling pages of illuminated script with side
illustrations. Under the light the pages
flash back gold, the blue of lapis lazuli, faint
greens and delicate browns and reds. One
can imagine the author looking through
his open cell-door and drawing bits of
wind-ruffled vine and fruit and flower into
the panels emblazoned on each side of
the vellum pages. No two panels are
alike. In the midst of one scroll of juicy
shoots and tendrils a quaint brown bird is
bowered; in another a peacock with down-
drooped tail provides the life interest. Here
and there shy creeping things of the wood
seem to sun themselves in the gold. He had
a sense of fun, too. One supposes that the
gently-amusing clerical figures emerging from
orisons at the foot of one of the pages were
drawn from his fellow-monks. One of these
had a look of James Edmond. On.the last
page of all the artist has poured all his
powers into an exquisite group showing
Christ taken from the Cross.
Tassie’s tattle
The Lieut.-Gov. and his lady, with a small party,
camped at Pipeclay Lagoon during the holidays, and
spent a peaceful time boating and flashing, the
weather being perfect.
Miss Rea and her sister Sally, who have retired
after years of schoolteaching, were farewelled by
the ex-pupils of the Ladies’ College at a luncheon
party at Hadley’s. Carnations and sweet-peas made
the table decorations and the guests of honor were
presented with bouquets in the school colors, light
blue, deep blue and green.
An 0.8. E. leaf from the New Year honors tree
fell on Mrs. F. W. Stephens, who has a record of
well-performed public duties to her credit.
The weather was on the sultry side for Longford
races. Mr.' : Grant Hay, who has the Kentdale stud
at Flinders Island, was the proud owner of two
winners. Mrs. Hay and her daughters were present,
and chairman Norman Field, duly toasted the owner
of the Longford Cup-winner in the committee room
after the race. 1 ;
Chairman Dr. G. -E. Clemons and Mrs. Clemons
entertained a big throng of guests in the members’
room on the T.T.C.’s Derby Day at Mowbray. In
spite of dry weather the course, lawn and surround-
ings were looking their best. ' Mrs. Clemons wore
a navy blue frock with spots of red and beige,
with a navy hat sporting a beige feather mount.
Daughter Anne was in terra-cotta, with natural
Baku hat. Among the throng were the Frank
Youls, the Charlie Martins, the Landon Fairthornes,
the Andrew Raeburns, Mr. Lance Archer, the Noel
Browns, the Alan Stewarts, the Riva girls, Mr. and
Mi's. P. Harrisson, the"V. C. Halls and their
daughters, the G. Doolans, Mis. Norman K. Ewing,
Mrs. Treffry, Mr. Tulloch Scott, Mrs. Grant Hayes
(Melb.) and her two girls, the Douglas Thompsons
and many country folk.
Katherine Delight, pretty daughter of the Rev.
Keyran and Mrs. Pitt, All Saints’ Rectory, Hobart,
and Kennedy B. Ready, Devonport, started the New
Year as an engaged couple.
Another local engagement is that of the W. R.
Childs’ eldest daughter, Pearl Isobel, to David
Nevin, only son of the Nevin Hursts, Monerieff,
New Town.
Mrs. T. A. Franckomb (Huon) is off for a trip
to the Cold Country, and is taking Isabel Pixley
(Lymington) with her.
South Australia says :
There was a good attendance at Morphettville races.
The torrid weather brought a revival of white in the
flocking, the Moulden lady leading the way in a
white satin ensemble and a white straw hat. Tussore
silk is also to the fore again. Chairman Whitmore
Carr entertained at afternoon tea, with Mrs. Sydney
Rymill as assisting hostess. Mrs. Ryrnill wore a
beige and white patterned linen frock, with a beige
hat.
The Mayor and Mayoress entertained City Coun-
cillors and their friends at the Town Hall, where
dancing and bridge were enjoyed. Guests had been
invited to come in flannels, so the masculine toilet
was slightly mixed, evening kit mingling with blazers.
The Mayor sported a white dinner jacket; liis son
Jack reversed the order of things by wearing white
linen trousers.
As Mount Osmond Country Club there was merry-
making. Bright streamers and balloons lent a car-
nival touch and many of the crowd came in fancy
dress despite the heat. Dr. John O’Brien and his
pretty wife were effectively costumed as Cossacks.
The Butler lady and her daughter Margaret have
returned to Haywood, Medindie, after three months
in Melbourne, wliere they were the guests of Cyril
Goodman and Mrs. Frank Hockey.
January and February will see several society
weddings:. Pretty Dorothea, the only daughter of
Mr. and . Mrs. Evan Kyffln Thomas, will be married
at the Cathedral on February 6 to Randall Robert
Parker, of Bombay. St. Andrew’s, Walkerville, will
be the scene of two other smart marriages: that of
Beatrice, second daughter of: Mr. and Mrs. A.' A.
Markwell, of Royston Park, to Dr. Sydney Cocks,
of Mount Barker; and that of Morna, only daughter'
of Mr. and Mrs. A. Dobbie, to Dr. Creagh Smeaton.
Westralia’s notes: —-
Helen Cramond and Ted Blackman have announced
their intention of taking a joint matrimonial plunge.
All roads led to Ascot on Cup Day. Mrs. Ernest
Lee Steere and Mrs. John Forrest, whose husbands
own Bonny Note, the 40-to-l Cup winner, were in
the throng. Mrs. Marillier sat in the stand clad in
chiffons patterned with blue and saffron; a small
red check was Mrs. J. P. Dwyer’s choice; Mrs.
Lazarus, in black laces, brought along Julia, tail
and striking in white; Jean Loton dangled red beads
over her beige laces; Mrs. Webster was in navy;
Mrs. Ambrose Cummins wore convolvulus-patterned
chiffons; Mrs. Oscar Copley sported a smart head-
piece with her flowered frock; Becca Davies, a souffle
in pink organdie, accompanied Claire Noonan, in
white; Betty Goff wore a big wispy hat with her
frock and slippers of pink broderie; Ina Randcll
looked cool in white broidered voile; Doreen O’Hara
and Vera Saw mingled coffee laces and georgettes;
Mrs. Geoff Mclntyre wore well-fitting black laces;
Mrs. Sandy McLean wore shell-pink crepe de Chine ;
Mrs. Ted Lukin chose autumn tones; Nan Smith was
in almond-green; Mrs. Leo O’Connor’s beige laces
were of cobweb texture.
On the last day of the races the James lady was in
blue. Mrs. Maurie Edwards sheltered her mignonette
chiffons with a cherry-red velvet parasol ; daughter
Bess dangled barbaric earrings above her broderie
frock; narrow lace frills were inserted into the
corsage of Mrs. Ben Prevost’s midget-check pussy-
willow ; Peggy Watson Williams wore a cocoa and
cream silk suit; a lime-green design ran over Dorothy
Mosev’s frilled chiffons; Mrs. Arthur Francis chose
a floral pattern to match her scarlet slippers ; Mrs.
Moustaka and daughter Orea included little coats in
their flowered toilettes ; Mrs. John Hargrave did her
punting in sand-dune georgettes scattered with
autumn leaves.; Mrs. Allan Thompson wore black;
blues predominated in Dorothy Hall’s ninon.
The visiting Y.A.L. girls are having a good time
with social functions and motor trips to places of
interest. A post-Christmas windfall for their enter-
tainment was a ,£5O cheque donated by the McNess
knight. The girls and their chaperons are holding
a meeting to decide how the money is to be spent.


Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
Carbon/
m
sm
m
m
&
A costly nuisance which is paid for in wasted petrol.
Have you ever considered how much more mileage you
get from a gallon of petrol when your engine is free
from carbon.
gmf
..... Carbo-Solve will positively remove carbon deposits.
.£10,000,000 of resources back Alemite Corporation’s
positive guarantee that Carbo-Solve will free your engine
from carbon. Full particulars sent on request .
ALEMITE CORPORATION « Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicagc
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
.554 George Street', Sydney, N: S. ,W.
Or from the following Representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd. . ... 384 Pin Street, Sidney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd.- . '.* J. . . ). i Brisbane
ATKINS '(W. A.)rLtdr r . «... 894 Ifhy Street. Berth
E. A. MAGHIN & GO' (J?ty), Ltd. * .53•> Elizabeth. Street, Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED . ~ . . . . ■ . ,122-Pirje. Street,. Adelaide
K-AUST-
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
.THINK OF
d
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
IDEAL
for the
Advertiser
Sunday is, a day of leisure in West-
ern Australia, when the great open
spaces make an appeal to thousands
of people. They have time to read a
paper, and for 34 years thousands of
people have each week selected the
Perth
for Sunday reading. The man on the
land declares that it .amply fulfils his
requirements for the news of the
week.
Shrewd advertisers desiring to
cover the valuable Western market
have consistently advertised in the
big pink Sunday paper. ’For results
there is nothing like it.
TRY IT FOR 1932.
. , , ~ . .
1 . . a .. 111 a harsher fashion than
•Hid iin'Vi , e u-v Wll ° was . always gentle
him —'sometimes almost 10
1 . I-*., 1 . ,
mnst lv!! y i ’i t e hlUuette ’ Wlt i ll t le
i -h Jes 1 have encountered, tne
nt l a i°V l , ri Pe cherry, and a silky mass
i liaU ’i hnt f , U wa ®' keenest
pleasiue to comb with my fingers, as I
ro Fiff suture she hardly reached
> ® lni d button ot my waistcoat, but
f° divinely formed that her presence
t measured her dimmutiveness, and she car-
ned lierselt like a queen.
’ iad first one another at
n 1 en Party m the grounds of the new
eminent House at Sydney, a very
i.iiqnial mansion standing m an mcompar-
ible position on the east side of Benelong's
L 0111 1, between Sydney Cove and the little
K,'} , , had been carried out, in Governor
~ Dlhp s day, the first farming operations of
i,. 6 eu* 6 ii lemont - Honce its name. I can
t utntuljy.assert that, trom the moment when
we were introduced to one another by poor
.ady I itzroy, our mutual regard took flame,
an ? .that by the end of the afternoon—a
delicious spring day, I remember with tre-
suiniii" mission w ts -i h° S ? Co ?’
death & nfl t'lVt l.ovp ni'imth? V/' t - iat u llly
nreffilv^ n £l q h U
in bis drearv thenhiP-v it- ?C t f n ln b e J est
rJaS&SW
5 i,S rS had mVltt t T me t 0
ofertHnuM An man
f™.
th sßilcul-itine-Ynnlcpe SS
if iv is mllv 'm V n,ti(.in !t!(,!, , i J i! kcS ’. :U1(1
tion mbdit'ere 1011 ■ t-il-p Lin. ir, at l Yf aVOCEI "
extent wßtol.nitimSVlS'n' T '- S '
nins to entertain a notion of scttlin| b dlwn
j;' * “jranOt rainwr in Sydnoj-. the better
doctriups of (l tin nut i * i 'n J? einiclous
doctrines of damnation and Hell-fire among
the inhabitants of the Territory. ‘Say-y
.1 • , . 3 i 3 Lj
Bai 11. he would drawl 111 his accursed and
aggravating accent—‘seems to' me- thishyer
Noo South 'Wales’s in the clutch 0’ the Devil
something terr’ble. Guess ,’twould ensure a
weak vessel’s etarnal salvation for to pluck
some o’ these hyar brands from the burnin’
Don’t it strike you thataway,. Bar’ll?’
“It struck me that unless this, ‘weak
i-essel’ were got out, of Mho. wav in some sea-
faring enterprise which would remove liim
from onr ,inappi;eciative. company, Amelie
and I would perish of exasperation and con-
stantly thwarted desire? I am not a murder-
ous mff'n,- but I could almost imagine myself
luring the fellow to the edge of one of those
precipitous .places in tlie Blue Mountains and
pushing him over, if lie was not to be got rid
of otherwise. My lovely little Amelie more
unappeasable in her hatred because of her
darling femininity, openly desired me to cut
liis throat, pack him in a trunk in a dismem-
bered condition, and sink him in the harbor,
So implacable was her hatred of her husband
that, lest she should do him a mischief and
place herself within the clutches of the Law,
it was necessary that I should find
some means, of getting him away from Syd-
ney. and that very speedily.
“I took deep thought in the matter, re-
garding.it from all angles, and it was some
time before the goodness of Heaven vouch-
:safed to come to my assistance with an idea
.which might happily solve the difficulties
whose worrying contemplation were almost
undermining Amelie’s good looks and de-
stroying my appetite. I resolved to become
a shipowner. Yes. I would purchase a
vessel and fit her out for the South Sea
Island trade, offering the command to Cap-
tain Jaikes under handsome terms as re-
garded remuneration, . together with an
interest in the cargo. Moreover, I would put
it to him that it was his Christian duty,
plainly, to do what lie could in spreading the
frightful doctrines of his sect amongst the
innocent cannibals of the eastern Pacific, or
any other part of it lie chose to trade in.
With great diplomacy I laid siege to both
the vulnerable points of the fellow’s defences
—his greed .and his bigotry—sapped up to
them with care- and circumspection, and
finally took them by assault when I informed
him that I would be glad, also, if he did a
little whaling during the voyage. lie could
not resist, and I will leave to the imagina-
tion tlie joyous abandonment of Amelie and
myself to transports of affection as we
watched the schooner stand out to sea from
the signal station at South Plead. She went
immediately to stay with a friend in the
country, who resided on an estate to the
northward' of Parramatta known as Pam-
peluna. It may be guessed who that fortu-
ndte, person was. Piously did we pray, each
evening at bedtime, that Emerson Baikes
might so penetrate the inner beings of sun-
dry cannibals that they would always re-
member him as the toughest and most
indigestible morsel of which they had ever
partaken. It was far from being inexpeu-
sive being a shipowner, but on the whole
I was well satisfied'with the situation. I
had no complaints.
“For six months I found life altogether
agreeable, as did also, I think, the charming
Amelie. At the end of that time it was
agreed between us that, for the sake of Mrs.
Grundy, she had better return for a while
to her home in Sydney, which was situated
on , the shores of that pretty inlet on the
northern side of the harbor which used to
be known, when the prison-ship Phoenix was
moored there, as Tlulk Cove, but lias since
become Lavender Bay. It was thus named
«>» ; ,f
manned th e “ dSto i!f’thPfiS ■ -OU
Iniimi natiw who used
„ ame d a ' ltei . (Biliy Blmi’s'Voliitf’nnd
the opposite shore on the south side. ’. So slip
1' ~1. T „ n .
A V . ' back and I betook mj si It to my cattle
station on the Macquarie, which I had rather
nee -lected during the honevmoon nroceediri»s
& U honeymoon .pioteedin to @
~, . ,
1 b ,! “onths went by fastly and slowly
fastly, because much required to be done
at the station, and slowly because more .than
miles of mountain and valley separated
l n, ‘ J. 10 ® 1 “?•>* adored enchantress. But at
baigtli the time came when, with a conscience
« eai ; of negligence to the business interests
°l Alr - Augustus, 1 could fly to the arms
°f n A divinity. I flew, per horseback ami
-'fmmt Victoria, the Weatherboard and
Hlllll lord not troubling to call at Pam-
PGvma—■to the, dear little white cottage in
the corner of Lavender Bay winch had been
so thoughtfully rented for his wife by the
care * l “ Emerson Jaikes, ere he departed
!'P°n. that voyage from which we fondly
hoped he might never return. I had con-
stantly pictured it: in my mind, nestling in
the shadow of a vastly-spreading Port Jack"
son fi S-tree—the place where we had tasted
? udl exquisite bliss in the absence of its
a, rd and master.
“It ' vas a beautiful afternoon when the
fine figure of Augustus You Big—l was still
handsome enough in middle-age.—might have
been observed near Dawfes Point, on the
west side of Sydney Cove,, embarking itself
in a waterman’s boat, in order to land near
the great fig-tree in the north-western corner
of Lavender Bay. The waterman was one
whom I knew well—a discreet fellow called
Toby—and had employed on more than one
clandestine voyage across the waters during
Captain Jaikes’s temporary absences at
Twofold Bay. between dusk and dawn. He
greeted me with colonial. bonhomie.
“‘Why my eyes, and sink my soul in
Hell, it's the Baron ! My oath, but ye
looks well an’ fit, Baron—tit for any -——
thing, I’ll go bail! ’Avin’ a fly to tli’ fig-
tree ?’
“ ‘There, my good Toby, is' where you shall
take me. I thank you for your hearty greet-
ing. I am indeed well. Early to rise and
early to bed, my buck, and. plenty of hard
work in between—such a mode of life. 1
think, agrees with me, Toby.’
“This verbose gentleman was unusually
silent as he rowed me across the stream of
Port Jackson, its blue and sunny loveliness
a meet setting for my happiness of antici-
pation, and presently, .as we drew into the
bay, I rallied him upon his glumness. He
listened to me with an anxious and peculiar
expression in his face, and then rested on
his oars, whilst he seemed to regard me with
pity.
“ ‘What is the matter, Toby? You look
as if you were going to the theatre on Gal-
lows Hill, to play the leading part! What
is on your mind?’
“ ‘Eookee, Baron,’ .lie said hesitantly,
‘there’s another bird a-roostin’ -in tli’ fig-tree.’
“ ‘Why—what do you mean? Pray, con-
tinue to pull the oars, Toby—the tide is
catching us. What bird?’
“With a blunt directness the honest fellow
came • to the point as lie once more dipped
his oar-blades beneath the sparkling surface.
“ ‘Baron,’ he said slowly—' ’is Uexcel-
led ct/!’
“I laughed, but my heart sank. 'Oh, Sir
Charles?’ I observed carelessly—propriety
forbade my giving Toby an impression or my
discomfort at this news. He nodded.
“ ‘Tli’ Gov’nor-Gen’ral ’isself, Baron. In
’is barge—flag an’ all.’
“ ‘Ah, yes, Toby, I am to meet his Excel-
lency here. A tea party which Madame gives
to,us both —to welcome me back to Sydney.
Pray, proceed—l am a little late.’
“Landing on the stone jetty I stood for
a moment or two in the cool shadow of the
great old fig-tree, gazing up at the little
white cottage bowered in creepers that held
my happiness—but perhaps, also, I reflected,
the damnation of it. I had not announced
my coming to Amelie —she did -not expect
me. But— pouf! Sir Charles was a hand-
some man, in his own way, but 'not such a
man as Mr. Augustus by a very great deal.
■Nevertheless,- I did not disguise from myself
that Mr. Augustus had his doubts, and was
a trifle upset. I was recalled to myself by
Toby.
“ ‘Shall I wait, Baron? You might be
coming back.'
“‘No. no,’ I said, throwing him a guinea.
‘Come in the morning.’ As I spoke it struck
me that probably Sir Charles was also mak-
ing an overnight stay, since there was no-
thing to be seen of his barge.
“I walked up the narrow pathway to
the house. It was very still in this quiet
corner of the harbor, and a riotous magpie
in. a banksia stopped his warbling to regard
me with suspicion.
“ ‘Sing, my little friend,’ I said to him.
.‘Continue your song of happiness. All the
world is happy on such a day as this —
except Mr. Augustus! ft ah!’
“I felt a disgust—that sense of condem-
nation a good man has for unfaithfulness in
woman. I knew Sir Charles’s little ways—
we had hunted together. But my Amelie!
It was terrible. The blue sky overarching
the steep cliff above the house mocked me,
the magpie mocked me, Toby's face had
mocked me. My happiness was at an end.
A bad man and a false woman had wrecked
my faith in human nature. Henceforth
Augustus Yon Big was to be a cynic, a mis-
anthrope, a disillusioned being.
“The little house, whose door was open,
was very silent and still as it lay amongst
shrubs in the shadow of the steep hillside.
My heart was beating; I was angry. Per-
haps it would be best to be discreet and go
away and walk to Billy Blue’s ferry and
return to Sydney and Pampeluna. But, no.
I would drain the cup of my sorrow to the
dregs. I might as well know the worst, be-
yond possibility of doubt. Inflating my
chest, therefore, and throwing back my shoul-
ders, and looking fiercely wronged I strode
up the pathway full of a determination to
know the reality of the situation.
"1 must have come very quietly in my
soft riding-boots, for I did not disturb them.
As I stepped on to the verandah the gleam
of something white caught the corner of my
eye. I turned to my left and saw.
“On a rustic seat behind the shrub, a
little way from the end of the cottage, sat
Sir Charles Augustus Fitzroy, Governor-
General of her Majesty’s Australian terri-
tories. with his arm about a woman’s waist.
And the waist was the waist of Emily, the
cook !
“Rising manfully to the occasion I stepped
back softly and gingerly, went a little way
down the path, coughed and cleared my
throat loudly, and retraced my steps to-
wards the verandah. As I set foot upon its
flagstones the Governor-General appeared.
Emily had vanished.
“ ‘Ha, Baron!’ said Sir Charles genially.
“‘Ha, your Excellency!’ I returned his
greeting,
“‘I am sure, my dear Baron, you will
be desolated to learn that our charming
friend is absent -from home. One of the
domestics has just informed me so. She
has gone to the town a-shopping. Unfor-
tunate for both of us, is it not? My dear
Baron, I am delighted to see you looking so
well. Indeed, I am. Pray, where have you
been ?’
“I told him, and while we waited for his
barge we had a very pleasant conversation.
The barge returned within the hour, and he
invited me to accompany him back to Syd-
ney, which I did.
“This, I think, well demonstrates, the fact
that the late Sir Charles Fitzroy was a man
of taste after my own heart. Charming
Amelie appealed to his cultured experience,
as she lmd done to mine. Emily, the cook!
■Well, I have kissed more ill-favored wenches
than that rosy-cheeked damsel, let me tell
you—and, no doubt, so had Sir Charles. One
must never neglect an opportunity.”
Autumn Evening.
The sea was emptied of her soul,
And lay like moonstones melted down,
Imprisoned in a purple bowl.
So coldly passionless and void,
It seemed the high gods, jealous grown,
Her very entity had destroyed.
So, impotent, she could do no more
Than make the moon a looking-glass,
Or form the stars a dancing floor.
The upraised and tormented arms
Of the tea-trees’ vague and misty mass,
Where, frozen into new alarms,
Their ragged outposts shoreward spread,
Had strivefi with winds without surcease,
And now the very winds were dead.
The very waves no more did hush,
With their old penitent psalms of peace,
The huddled frontiers of the bush.
And my own heart to-night would seem,
With brushwood forest and flood below,
Dazed, on the borderlands of dream.
A borderland serener far,
Troubled by no late afterglow,
And no impatient early star.
Nor stirred by morning’s glittering scroll
To scintillating ecstasy. . . .
A mood, a mist, across the whole
I .landscape of things, it seems to me
The sea is emptied of her soul,
And all my world is like the sea.
VICTORIA.
!
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


The 1932
Edition
OF A
Famous
Book
—-but useless if you
have not the will i
to succeed ...»
® ROBERTSON
AfiY UMITI.U
ta.t'feptsowsL l aaa'MSNG
L MukATi.-r, >t * M, S T, ! Ai.,V.f«A
IN its 96 pages, business people—men and women—youths and grown-ups—have found what they have been
1 seeking For them it has opened the door of success. Its title is "Guide to fop.es are tree to
ambitious people, to those who are frankly anxious about the future and who are askmg themselves what they can
do to-day to make personal conditions more assured to-morrow.
The Record of a Third of a Century
1897-1932
TIMES such as the present provide the test that reveals the sources of true strength, whether"it be in an individual
or in a business concern. ,
In its thirty-five years of experience, the House of Hemingway and Robertson has seen rr. my economic doubles has
experienced some of them, and has added thereby to the source of knowledge of business principles that guid-
established, successful enterprise.
Initiative, originality, whole-hearted enthusiasm, an innate understanding of what has to be done are some o * e
factors that strengthen a successful institution. In the field of educational endeavor, some of the outstanding
contributions of Hemingway and Robertson are:
j. The introduction of the first Courses in Business specialisa-
tion in only business training——and the production of the first
Courses in Accountancy, Secretaryship, Cost Accountancy,
Banking and Municipal Work. * .
2, The introduction of convenient tutorial features, such as one
fixed fee, a guarantee of successful tuition, the elimination of
costly books, and the supply of self-contained printed text-
lessons. ' '
3, The establishment of full-time staffs, numbering some 200
trained educationalists, to give close personal service from
seven main centres, and forming an organisation many times
greater than that of any institution in Australia.
4, A comprehensive Staff Appointment Service, available at any
time personally to past and present students, which has the
active support of business executives.
5., The assurance that comes from a pioneering effort that has
grown successfully to such a degree that 70%-80% of the
total examined qualified accountants, secretaries and business
graduates in Australia have successfully trained through
Hemingway & Robertson.
PAGES, ARE POSTED FREE AND WITHOUT OBLIGATION ON REQUEST.
COPIES OF
‘GUIDE TO CAREERS
96
Hemingway & Robertson
The Largest Specialist Business Coaches in the Empire
“Organised to Inculcate the Principles of Business.”
HEAD OFFICES: 58 BARRACK HOUSE, 16 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY.
58 BANK HOUSE, BANK PLACE, MELBOURNE, Cl.
Offices at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Newcastle, Perth, Adelaide, Hobart, Launceston.
DETACH AND POST
To HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON, at ■ (Just odd capital city name )
x would like to have “Guide to Careers” and complete information about your training in ......
Name
Business Address
58/10:;
SPECIALIST TUITION IN:
Accountancy
Secretaryship
Cost Accountancy
Banking and
Securities
Bankers’ Exams..
Insurance
Municipal Exams.
Scientific Marketing
and Merchandising
Advertising
Salesmanship
Commercial
Bookkeeping
Farm and Station
Bookkeeping
Effective English
and Personal
Development
Correspondence
Handwriting
Arithmetic
Business Shorthand
All Business Subjects
ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE
Training for Executives
Thousands Subscribe to Australia's Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
. MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GJP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from ..
for which I enclose &
NAME • ••
ADDRESS *
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/*
Overseas —12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
fe '■o^
0°
S®V*'
0
r
e
2
.• ■" u o ?^’
•• #V 6^
#•’
>v !
,1 «U ,\)0
.•• vs
00 s o’


c
<
■
:
m
m
mm
■ . '
mm
I
v ., y , . ~ - w> ... . : : : : v»-.
• •• P
V..
Scotland’s Best is the World’s Best
DEWARS
SCOTCH WHISKY
