

1
si
r Si
m
:
' ■■ : ■
i.4* . . ;
ms*
#
•• i! '
V
'
g | VMm
fe,: :
mm
SHIS Wm
t.
:
■■■■■■
fe i '
? v
>w
* mm
,4.
sdf
To hear "You’ll have a glass of
Johnnie Walker before you
go ?” makes a stranger feel
halfway on the road to friend-
ship. Better still, reminds two
friends that each likes the
other well.
JOHNNIE
Walker
Born 1820—still going strong
johnnie Walker scotch whisky h bottled only in Bond Under Government Supervision
The Bulletin
o4i& ~t/k& !s<lirvkst> doiMXj a, QziAstT) ?
Vol. 53,—N0. 2739.
Wednesday, August 10, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


"pHE 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
mu
iILU
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Fret
16pp. Illustrated PEXMAXSIitj* Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing ns
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address ...
S.B. 332
JJYSAGHTT
0
O
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
LOT
lltl<
(uticmq
GIN
MEDICINAL
iou tr
fRIC
AND
T RU
S.
Verdict of Millions
Throughout the World
Used in homes in every coun-
try in the world for more
than half a century, Cutienra
Preparations are unsur-
passed for daily care of the
skin. Begin using them today
as a protection against skin
troubles.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. 'I alcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free. Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
sdf
sdfsd
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 lIUKTER STREET.
ALU AUSTRALIANS visiting London
*"*■ should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” Gd. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit-the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
'meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
he obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 34a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
403 95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
"THE AGE”
Established, 1854•
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
ifi your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 119,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or '
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office; 43 Hunter Street.
London Office; 47 Fleet Street.
„ Tla&vie ,:>■ S euvn&e ,
*s£crz£ StcXt£«J, Stajpe,
$■ S&tee/rt fuiS4, faz&es fax
„ t&4*. Jfrumy, ZFffCS&i. '
TheAUSTRALASIAN
pn SALE At
STATES
Deafness
Wilson's Ear Drums relieve Catarrhal Deafness;
stop Head Noises ; make words more-distinctly under-
stood; restore hearing by taking the place of
.perforated or destroyed natural drums.
Price, £l/2/- complete. Write for Booklet.
J. WILSON EAR DRUM CO.,
225 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
price ~ .. ... .. 3d.
Contains everything a wdnuin needs to know.
economists aqree
is
QUEENSLAND
EVERYONE AGREES
THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph’'
is renowned for its vigorous
influence, its freedom from
vulgarity and stupid sensa-
tionalism, and its high per-
centage of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
carries more classified adver-
tisements than any other
Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers
must agree that as an eco-
nomic force in the Queens-
land market “The Telegraph”
leads the way.
TELEGDADH
/ BRIIBANEi LEADING HOME NEWSPAPER -
m
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
The Hobo Mind
The depression has filled the world’s
roads with tramps, and produced an
immense literature about their wanderings.
A composite picture emerges of one who in
many respects resembles the immortal
Borrow. Tramps give all sorts of reasons
for their reluctance to stay in the same
place for long. In Borrow’s case it was a
yearning to sell the Bible to Southern
Europeans. The alleged objective of others
is work, “escape,” experience, adventure or
any one of a dozen more, all of which boil
down to the same thing. The true tramp
has the spirit that moved Ulysses—oiko-
phobia. He is wretched in a fixed job: the
most distant fields always seem greenest
to him. He likes making human contacts,
but they must be transitory. He is spiritually
and physically restless; insatiably curious;
a liar and braggart for the preservation of
his pride, which the conventional seem to
him to be in a permanent conspiracy to
undermine. With brains and energy he
may become a Marco Polo or a Stanley;
when he has money he is to be found on
tourist liners, or rushing aimlessly between
America and France, Australia and Eng-
land. The fact that he is free to go where
lie likes gives him a feeling of superiority:
a great human need which the marooned
can only satisfy by looking down on those
who are Laborites or Conservatives, or
Jews, Catholics- or Protestants, as the case
may be, or those who enjoy the talkies, or
wear the wrong clothes, or what not.
Munchausen Redivivus
Scott Pearson, author of To the Streets
and Back (The Bod ley Head; 7s. 6d.), is
a Scot who has all the qualities of the
traditional hobo in an exaggerated form.
His yarns about his feats of strength and
valor make those of Borrow himself seem
modest. In Jersey City he is given a lift
on a lorry - ; which is held up by a bandit.
He has to deal with the danger himself;
the lorry-driver is too terrified.
A masked figure approached.
“Hands up!” said a quiet voice.
“They’re up!”. 1 cried and pushed my
nailed boot hard into his face. He fell
senseless to the ground.
In Milwaukee he meets a fight promoter
with a champion heavyweight. The pro-
moter offers him the main fight of the
evening on sight and advertises him as
“The Fighting Scot.” His opponent turns
out to be “a big tough-looking fellow, with
a flat nose and thick ears.” In the ring
the Wonder Boxer “looked nervous.” And
With reason. Immediately the second round
began Mr. Pearson “crashed a right to his
temple and jabbed a knee into his chest.”
The third saw the downfall of the cham-
pion who seems to have been another
Frankie Wine, only more vulnerable.
I rushed him, ducked under his left and
landed my left in his stomach. This brought
his chin down on my right, and I crashed
him to the floor. The referee counted thirty.
The referee seems to have got tired of
Counting after 30; anyhow, he is represented
as having then awarded the fight and stakes
to the Scottish stranger. The victor leaves
the same night for Wisconsin, and, father
surprisingly, gets a laborer’s job with a
farmer. Later he becomes the village idol;
wins the affection of the schoolmistress (“a
wonderful girl”); organises a play (“I wish
Messrs. Nathan and Swaffer could have
been present, for they would have seen
acting as it should be”), but, alas! incurs
the jealousy of the parson—the man who
at their first meeting had -said his singing
“sounded like a blackbird.” So he leaves.
Women are attracted by him, but his moral
principles are such that he is obliged to
reject their advances. He visits a fashion-
able night club in Chicago (“to-morrow this
dance would provide the newspapers with
‘Society Gossip’ ”) and is the success of
the evening:—
It was true I had no evening dress, but
my lounge suit was well pressed, and my
complexion singled me cut from other
men.... Some of the women insisted on
kissing me when 1 left. It was the first
time they had met a Man, they said.- I
didn’t argue.
And so via Albany, where he is a sensa-
tional success as a lecturer (a waiter on
the train by which he leaves says: “The
last time Albany saw anybody off at the
station was when the President of the U.S.
had been visiting there, and even he didn’t
draw such a crowd as you did, sir.”) to
Montreal, and back to London, where he is
now in an important position. He is a
transparent liar
and a shoddy
writer, and he is
rancid with the
cheap sentimen-
talism of the cretin
press; but his book is well worth while as
a revelation of character.
A Girl Tramp
Touch and Go, by Barbara Starke (Cape;
the Roycroft Library; 8s. 6d.), presents an
entirely different personality. Alec Waugh
tries to explain her in the introduction by
suggesting that “as her days at college
neared an end she felt that a net was clos-
ing round her; the same net that had
bound her parents.” Her parents are New
England Puritans who made her and her
sister liars at an early age; if the girls
hadn’t lied the}' Would have had no
pleasure at all. But that doesn’t account
satisfactorily either for her behavior or
for her mental attitude towards it. She
meets a man on the first night of her pil-
grimage, goes to bed with him as a matter
of course, and without a hint of affection
on either side, and leaves him next day
for ever. The same with others whom she
chances on during the months that follow
—Gan, a German or Pole, w-ho gives her
a lift in the truck in which he ip carting
bones; Joe, who accosts her in Santa Bar-
bara, and whom she leaves in Fresno; and
so on. Her peculiarity is not that she is
promiscuous—in a society without strong
social or religious inhibitions promiscuity
may be as common among females as it
is among males—but that she is eager to
tell the whole world about it. This is a
pathological symptom—a form of exhibi-
tionism—which was not present even in the
shameless Pepys. She is probably as dis-
ingenuous as Mr. Pearson, but she dramatises
herself on more interesting lines (where he
is self-righteous and emotional she is cyni-
cal and hard-headed) ; she has a sense of
humor. Which he hasn’t ; and she writes in-
comparably better. She walks or hitch-
hikes from New England to California; as
far south as Arizona, and as far north as
the Canadian border. At Detroit she frater-
nises with a gang who vary bootlegging with
monkey-pulling, i.e.. smuggling Chinese into
America' at 200 dollars each.
Your only expense was gunny sacks, twine
and stones. When asked why. Tex went
into details; one lias to sack the monkeys
and pile them on the deck to look like a
load of liquor. Then if the law comes too
close and sees you dumping your load over-
heard, they won’t get suspicions. But the
stones? “Clod, woman, you-all gotta sink
the monks if the law comes too close.”
into contact with a trade like that
Mr. Pearson would have emitted a stream
of high-minded platitudes about the sacred-
ness of human life; Miss Starke takes it
for granted. She fakes everything for
granted. Her chief pre-occupation is with
men, and the needs of her healthy, young
body—to be adequately fed, loved, and
from time to time washed—but she also has
a quick and sympathetic eye for beauty
in all its manifestations. Some of her
descriptions of , the American countryside
are gems of sensitive, imaginative prose.
For no particular reason she suddenly
decides it is time she “went to New York
and tried getting a job and living like
other people.” From that moment she
can’t reach her destination and the tram-
mels of a business girl’s life quickly enough;
which is characteristic of the impetuous
nature, that lurks behind her armature of
frozen indifference. Like' Mr. Pearson she
is now in an office. Almost his Idsl
recorded sentiments are: “There are
moments when the past seem? in many
ways to have been a happier time than the
present and calls me baek.” She concludes:
“I am wondering how much longer I’m
going to stand it. How am I going to
reach the ground and the sky again?” The
reader knows the answer. They wall both
be off again soon. Life in a city repre-
sents suspended animation to such as them.
RED PAGE.
An Australian Public School
Unlike “P.S.” (R.P. 20 7/’32) my educa-
tion was finished off at an Australian public
school. On the other hand most of the
masters had been imported from England,
None, with the exception of the head-
master, had any control over their pupils.
’Coming from a State school I was surprised
at the lack of discipline. One master was only
able at times to maintain a semblance of
order after he had ejected all the unruly
spirits from his classroom. One of the teach-
ing staff was detailed to superintend the de-
tention class in the big schoolroom, where
a hundred or so boys were sent from various
(Tied Page continued on page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—PIain Facts, Open Dealing
“THE SENIOR STORE”
fsdfsdfs
HALF YEARLY
GENUINE
dfs
Refurnish NOW! £5O Prize proves True Value!
FURNITURE to beautify the home
at PRICES to meet your Purse
This
Suite
Won
£5O
Prize
H=\
m
wm
wm
;
m
m
m
T
VA
b' $
The Famous
“MODERNE
Bedroom Suite
f2?loi
»THIS SHOPPER Wl.w^
From Anthony
Horderns
* ■ this week's shopping
On 8.»,
SOlt ’ . vMirr'h.ase, made
Uourne
H th ° nyH s °'ue priced at EW/10/ J
was a bedroom sui V’ £ ony Horderns’,
L “I bought atA tbre piece'
*ote Mrs ’.. P e figured walnut and|
sui > The suite con-
' Queensland . **&• 3ft. 6im!
«£s£- a roomy
i
T h;/:r«-ta«e
® irror “ mwor and 9*?!
one large __ i _zrj Sr -'X ,
ringing sid^** 11
** price ir ™)
Read what “Telegraph” Prize Winner says
This is the smart Suite which brought Mrs. Peterson a £5O prize in the “Daily Telegraph”
Shopping Competition (at left). Mrs. Peterson says of this stylish Suite in Figured Walnut
and Maple: “It is beautifully polished and inlaid. The Wardrobe has an inside mirror, and
the Dressing Table has 1 large mirror and 2 smaller swinging side mirrors. The Suite was
reduced in price from £39/17/6 to £27/10/- and is wonderful for the money.” Make a point
of examining a replica of Mrs. Peterson’s prize-winning Suite in our
showrooms, or write for full details. Price £39/1 7/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price . .
£27/10/-
Full-size BEDSTEAD to match Suite
£9^6,
£7'7'b
“The Moderne Maple Veneered Bedstead to
match suite. Solid square panels, light diamond
veneer in centre of panels. A very handsome
Bedstead. Size, 6ft. 6in. x 4ft. 6in.
Price . . •• • £9/7/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price . £7/7/6
u
(Bedsteads —Third Floor—Free Delivery, City and Suburbs).
At a Saving of £3l
£29/10/- “Challenge”
LOUNGE SUITE
£26/101-
The “Challenge” Three-piece Lounge Suite. Upholstered in specially
selected Genoa Velvet and plain Velvet facings. Beautifully Sprung
Seats, Backs and Arms. The loose cushions are spring-filled. The Suite
imparts that delightful ease usually found in expensive automobiles.
Call and see this Suite. This is a superlative Sale Quality Value.
Price, £29/10/-. Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £26/10/-
-p
o
1
IB
&
r4VV-
V?
I I
( Furniture, Ground Floor,
Pitt Street —Free
Delivery, City and Suburbs only.)
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


it took nineteen years of
manufacturing experience
'jke. FISK $Er M ErS
m
■
er
m w w m,
R.ADIOLA 55 '
Few, if any, scientific products are literally made
in a day. Their perfection is due in a very large
degree to extensive research and experience gained
in manufacturing over a number of years.
The Radiola is no exception to the rule. Its
brilliant performance and dependability are the
culmination of the engineering work commenced
by Amalgamated Wireless in 1913 and successfully
carried on during the past nineteen years. The
knowledge and experience gained by the A.W.A.
engineering staff in the design and manufacture of
wireless equipment of every type for use in com-
mercial wireless stations on ship and shore, and in
the design of broadcasting stations, has been ap-
plied to the design and manufacture of the Radiola.
It is but natural therefore that the Radiola should
be a quality receiver of the first magnitude—a
receiver that in respect of performance and de-
pendability stands alone. Its superb tonal qualities
have been proclaimed by eminent musical artists
as the finest they have heard.
$
i
a
i n 1
i' a
The Radiola 55 E gives
Interstate reception with-
out aerial or earth.
Priced at £37/10/0.
Easy Terms Available.
Guaranteed for one year.
See and Hear the Radiola at your nearest Radiola Dealer
AA D I O LA
AMALGAMATED WIRE L E S S (A/S IA ) LTD.


E. H. WELFORD Pty. Ltd.
“Good English and Good Writing”
Even to the man or woman of business, the ability to use language well
gives some degree of independence because it establishes a qualification
which is in almost universal demand, whilst anyone who cares to cultivate
a talent for writing may achieve, through proper training, almost
complete control of his own life.
E. H. Welford Pty. Ltd. was formed 1 1 years ago with the avowed
object of training men and women in the effective use of English for
any purpose. The service is essentially practical. It assists the conduct
of any life because it links up definitely with the needs of the pupil. But it extends
beyond the sphere of business and social activities, and can carry its pupils on to
the ultimate goal of writing successfully for publication.
To this end E. H. Welford Pty. Ltd.
has gathered together a group of
writers, each of acknowledged stand-
ing in his own department, who have
also the faculty of imparting instruc-
tion to others. These men are of wide
and long experience, bringing to their
work as guides and instructors the
cumulative ability of successful effort
extending over twenty years. They
have had close and continuous con-
tact with adult minds throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. They know
the business of writing both from the
writer’s standpoint and from the
editor’s. That this is so is amply shown
by the success attained by a large
number of young writers trained
through this organisation and by fre-
quent editorial appreciation of their
work.
In the accompanying panel three
instructional and training courses and
a critical service are briefly described.
We shall be glad to send full particu-
lars of every one of these, but we
believe that your purpose and ours
will be best served if you will tell us
where your interest particularly lies.
“GOOD ENGLISH AND GOOD
WRITING.”
Instructional and Training
Courses conducted by E. H.
Welford Pty. Ltd.
The WELFORD COURSE in
ENGLISH, by E. H. Welford
and A. W. B. Welford, M.A.
(Cantab.).
The BERNARD CRONIN
STORY-WRITING COURSE, by
Bernard Cronin.
WRITING FOR THE NEWS
PAPERS a course in the writ-
ing of paragraphs and articles
for Australian newspapers and
periodicals.
CRITICAL SERVICE TO
WRITERS. Criticism of indivi-
dual MSS. and advice on publica-
tion, by Bernard Cronin.
We Welcome callers, but we have no outside
representatives and make no calls ourselves.
E. H. WELFORD PTY. LTD.,
398 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street), Melbourne.
To E. H. Welford Pty.. Ltd. 398 Flinders Lan~, Melbourne.
Please send me particulars of
NAME
ADDRESS
classes to write lines, and where they got
more lines for chyacking the supervisor.
Some had a terrific account —tens of thou-
sands of lines—to discharge, and took pride
in records which they could not work off
in a lifetime.
As “sons of gentlemen” we had the tradi-
tional contempt of learning, copied from
Eton and Harrow, and we were aided and
abetted in that attitude by most of the
masters. The handful of boys who took
their lessons seriously were regarded as
swots, and contemptuously treated, though
they were useful to crib from. The boys
who excelled in sports, however, were
treated with great consideration. Never-
theless, some pretence of respect for
scholasticism had to be maintained, and it
took the form of the whole school and the
masters boasting about passes and credits
at the annual University examinations; this
in spite of the fact that the headmaster re-
garded these examinations as an unmiti-
gated curse and an obstacle to real educa-
tion, as he declared at every annual
break-up.
As for the education, most of the masters
showed remarkable ingenuity in providing
instruction without promoting intellectual
activity. I spent hundreds of hours over
Latin, German and French, only to come
to the conclusion that I was a poor linguist.
Yet after leaving school I learnt to read,
write and speak three languages with an
ease that surprised me. During the whole
of my sojourn at the place I only once
discovered that there there were compara-
tive values in anything, and that was re-
vealed to me in a negative manner. The'
English master had a horror of Y ords-
worth’s poetry, from which I deduced that
one piece of poetry was not necessarily as
good as another. My Latin master never
once hinted that there was such a thing as
Roman history, literature or civilisation. I
learnt that after leaving college, from read-
ing Gibbon, Fraser and Well’s “Outline of
History.” Rome had only significance for
me as a place whose inhabitants had exer-
cised an insane ingenuity in inventing
grammatic rules and then inventing excep-
tions to them. I never once heard Plato,
Socrates. Pheidias or Euripides mentioned.
It is only recently that I have discovered
that Plato’s Dialogues contain an invalu-
able key to life and human nature, together
with a sense of humor quite different from
that of my schoolmasters’, which ran to
punning and jokes about their pupils’
physical peculiarities.
The formation of character mainly took
the shape of the tacit or active inculcation
of social snobbery. The boarders were
encouraged to despise the day boys, and
both despised the boys of other colleges.
This was supposed to promote “healthy
competition,” and no protests were ever
made against it, because, competition being
the law of life in the world outside and
getting on in business and society a con-
dition of existence, it was regarded as the
first civic virtue.
The necessity or otherwise of sex educa-
tion was simply not considered. There
were the usual’sinister rumors, but the sub-
ject was one for surreptitious and ignorant
discussion behind the outbuildings. An
elderly man who hung about the school
grounds and showed Japanese picture post-
cards was mobbed, and his hat cut into
strips and distributed amongst bis attackers,
though there was no very clear idea as to
what his offence was. A pseudo-scientific
book called “Man. the Masterpiece,” printed
in America, was circulated underground, and
its thinly-veiled pornography was all we
had to replace the lack of courage in ouv
teachers.
No doubt the masters ‘did their best under
the circumstances and it is scarcely fair to
judge them at this distance, but the impres-
sion I got from my Alma Mater was of the
complete futility of public-school educa-
iion. I have been talking lately to some
contemporary victims of the system and it
does not seem to have changed in the
slightest, although its social prestige is as
high as ever.
M. G. S.
Should Hollywood Be Banned?
I am the motion-picture publicity man
who was responsible for the “Frankenstein”
advt. which caused Mr. M. G. Skipper
such pain (R.P. 20/7,/’32). I make no
apologies; the advt. did no harm,
except perhaps to the artistic sensibilities
of Mr. Skipper and his friends, and it helped
to persuade 38,000 Melbourne people to
see the film in a week—and to get people
into my company’s shows is my job in the
same way as being superior seems to be
Mr. Skipper’s job.
He may be a highly-cultured individual,
but God forbid that this country should be
in the hands of his sort these hard times!
More than £30,000,000 of Australian capital
is locked up in the local amusement indus-
try. The heavy technique of the German
productions, which are the only European
ones in which the English language is'used,
makes them unpopular here. All the
attempts to put them across which have
been made by'those in my line of busi-
ness have failed up to now. Australia has
only produced three successful talkie fea-
tures so far. As for British talkies, Aus-
tralian fans do not care for them on the
whole, though some have been winners.
Neither do British fans. After many years
of appeals to British patriotism 75 per cent.
of the films shown in the United King-
dom are from Hollywood, and many Eng-
lish films are being made there. Mr. Noel
Coward, who is said to be one of the
smartest business men in the entertain-
ment'game, is having his play “Cavalcade'’
produced at Hollywood by Frank Borzagc,
though he was asked to let England have
the chance. Mr. Arliss, and other leading
English producers, actors and dramatists
work at Hollywood, not to mention the
foreigners Von Sternberg, Lubitsch, etc.
And Mr. Skipper wants all their products to
be banned! Where does he think—assum-
ing he has given the subject any thought
—that the supplies would come from to
keep Australia’s thousands of movie
theatres open? And what would happen
to.the tens of thousands of Australians on
the payrolls of the amusement companies
if the theatres were closed?
Highbrows like Mr. Skipper are ready
enough to make suggestions for improving
the minds of. the workers, but when it comes
to policies likely to get the workers .jobs,
or keep them from losing the jobs they
have, these theorists are not heard from.
They have no practical knowledge. Let
Mr. Skipper study the economics of the
film industry, and we who are in it will be
glad to hear from him; but in the meantime
he would be advised to keep his brow out
of a business he clearly does not under-
stand.
JACK PERCIVAL, JUN.
A Satchel of Books
Miss Marple (“she had on black lace
mittens, and a black lace cap surmounted
the piled-up masses of her snowy hair”)
gets most of the limelight in Agatha Christie’s
The Thirteen Problems (Collins; 7s. 6d.).
Her friends propound their mysteries at
social gatherings in her quiet rural retreat,
and with an uncanny perceptiveness which
is almost monotonous she indicates the
criminal —usually before the narrator has
finished talking. Sherlock Holmes wasn’t in
it with her. She is an interesting creation,
and Mrs. Christie has given her an interest-
ing lot of problems to solve.
All for the Love of a Lady, by Dion Clay-
ton Calthrop (Chapman and Hall; 7s. 6d.),
is a good novel gone wrong. The characters
are real individually, but not in relation to
one another. Ida, the vulgar little gold-
digger who can’t go straight for long, would
at least have gone straight for long enough
to hook affluent Robin. There are plenty of
young men as unsophisticated as Robin, but
none with iris experience of life who
wouldn’t have laughed at Ida’s explanation
of how she came to be in Saumarez’s bed-
room in her underclothes. Some compen-
sating features are the bright, up-to-the-
minute dialogue, and the authentic pictures
of luxury life in London.
One of the commonest overseas impressions
about Australia, and perhaps the hardest to
dispel, is that it is a country of eternal heat
and drought. If you tell the average Briton,
who has to go abroad for less winter sports,
that Australians can get ski-ing and skating
within a few hours by train of their two
chief capitals he is frankly incredulous. The
British simply can’t visualise a snow land-
scape under the Southern Cross. The Aus-
tralian Ski Year-Book,- which is edited by
Percy Hunter and his associates (Stewart
.1 airiieson, the Sydney barrister: Kemble
Gibson, of Victoria; and W. S. Rennie, of
M.L.), should help to remove this miscon-
ception. It offers 255 pages of reading
matter and photographs for 3s. 6d., and
though some of the articles, such as the one
by Sverre Kaaten on how to ski-jump, are
technical, the majority can be read with
interest by one who has never seen snow.
This year-book should do a lot of good, apart
from amusing the members of the innumer-
able ski clubs of Australia and M.L. It
has a world circulation and will help to
advertise Australia a,s a tourist resort.
Joseph Hamlet, who wrote “Joyriding to
Bankruptcy,” has staged another comminu-
tion service with proletarian democracy as
his inspiration, called A ustralia (Gorton and
Co.; 2s. (id.). Politicians are poison to
this writer. There is a lot in his claim that
they are the legitimate successors of the
fawning courtiers and place-hunters of an-
other age; the chief difference being that
instead of lying to sovereigns they lie
to the so-called sovereign people. Some
of Hamlet’s suggestions will sound fan-
tastic to readers brought up on th'e
professional politicians’ doctrine that the
sovereign people can do no wrong—for
example that every Government official
should be forced to wear a uniform “in order
that the people will stand appalled at their
number,” and that every citizen, rich and
poor, should be required to pass a test in
elementary economics before being granted
the franchise. He cites scores of cases to
illustrate what happens when a country is
run by politicians whose careers depend on
buying popularity with votes at the tax-
payers’ expense. In 19.13 the N. S. Wales
basic wage was £2 11s. per week and the
national debt was 320 million pounds. To-
day the basic wage is £4 2s. fid. per week
and the national debt is 1275 million pounds.
Therefore our way of running the nation’s finances
is that the more we owe the higher wages we pay
and the shorter hours we work.
Mr. Hamlet has a breathless, vituperative
style, and he makes no pretensions to a
judicial mind, but his figures are pretty right,
and the conclusions which lie draws from
them take a deal of refuting.
F. C. Deakins, in his pamphlet B ulls w 00l
(Robal Printery; Is. 6d.), appeals for raised
wool prices. He claims that the world must
have our fine wool, arid that it is up to us to
get together and put a fair price on it; that
this would be not only an act of justice to
ourselves, but in the best interests of other
wool-growing countries
Here we are getting less than nothing for our
wool, and ruining the markets of the world at the
same time. How. long is this, state of things to
continue? We are the “dog-in-the-manger” in the
whole wool world, just as we are in the meat world
His theory is that Australian graziers arc
the victims of an overseas combine, which
operates here and abroad, but “makes its
profits on the other side only.”
Answers to Correspondents.
A'o notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
L.C.T,.H.; No perch for you in the aviary
yet; but don’t go away.... Mabel B.: Idea reaches
its climax in four stanzas, and the change of metre
in the last is clumsy... .E.W.L.: Gentle, but un-
impressive... .Rosalie M.: Your craft doesn’t match
your ideal... .L.L.: Had a funeral march to the
basket D.A.S.: Too slight Eldorado: Entered
it in the Nursery Handicap, but it was short of
training. .. .Jane Ann: Has promise but is a bit
angular... .R.R.: Your pigeons need a smoother
plumage to reach the showstand.... Pebble: Sorry,
can't see a feature in it to commend Cleo McG.:
A few quite good lines; but uneven.... Christine C.:
Distinctly you have something to say; but you too
often crash to commonplace... . J.N.0.: Everyday
prose, studded with a few rhymes.... Loyal C.:
Thank you; it is the letter of a friend... .P.F.M.:
Good yarn; but it should go in a column....
D.L.M.M.: “Crows” hardly black enough R.G.8.:
Yours is a thin and reedy pipe Y.L.: “Depres-
sion's Day” left us worse dejected... .11. N.: A
dreary monotone. .. .1.1 T.: A pretty trifle, but it
doesn’t quite get past.... J.W.E.: “The Roamer”
doesn’t gel anywhere H.M.: Another danger you’ve
discovered on our beaches, eh?:—
For many a future co-re
By the zephyr breezes fanned
Allured by half-clad sirens
Meets his trouble on the sand.
. ...H.G.: “What is wrong with it?” Mediocrity.
. ...G.8.: Neat, but. presupposes a knowledge of
mythology. A stanza or so leading up to your climax
would make it clearer F.E.S.: Sonnet ineffective,
and your rhymes, “trial”-“style,” “homc”-“ ’phone,”
make us shudder H.J.J.: Ending is an old trick.
.... L.A.S.: Your banjo needs tuning... .Sheena W.:
The altruism of Tutankhamen’s father-in-law leaves
us cold Dave D.: Rickety stuff, and any interest
it has is purely local. .. .8.D.: No kick in it....
T.M.: The only readable part is the quotation from
Isaiah. .. .R.J.T.: There’s a faint glimmer of promise,
but some of your endings are woefully weak. Try
Palgrave’s “Golden Treasury” for a start....
Eldorado: No pay-dirt there. . . .T.H.Y.: “Sandy”
discharged with a caution... .E.A.H.: Have seldom
read more prosaic verse... . J. 0.:
I have ringed the lowing hornies on the cold Kynuna
\ Plains
And have purchased bottled lightning with my scant
pecuniary gains.
Maybe, but you don’t smite the lyre with much
success... .C. 11.: You have turned on the water-
works .... R.R.: Has feeling, but one can scent the
finish a mile 0ff.... A.8.G.: Absence of a plot pulls
them down... .G.M.C.: Australians must eat frightful
suppers, judging from dream stories here received...
8.R.: Might suit a travel magazine.... J.P.: Began
brightly, but brightness was not sustained.. ..
M.J.S.: A bit better done it might creep into a
woman’s paper.... H.M.W.: Can’t believe any sane
person would allow himself to be tricked like that.
. ...J.E.8.: Plot is vague, and so are the char-
acters. .. .A.L.D.; No parking space here for dragons:
. ...M.L.: Sort of experience that has been related
over and over again... .P.G.S. : Hasn’t enough punch
in it... .C.G.S.: Off our beat. .. .A.G.A.: If you had
studied your market you -wouldn’t have sent it here.
. ...H.J.P.: Lamentably failed to live up to the
title, “Six Bottles of Beer”... .W.W.S.: Coppers
don’t behave that way... .T.E.L.: Far too long
A.J.C.: Makings of a yarn in it... .W.S.K.: A bore
expounds a theory and then sets out to tell a dull
yarn J.S.W.: An overworked theme... .W.R.A.:
Plot is weak.... T.W.T.: The author also made a
mistake in writing it... .W.R.A.: Done too often.
B.J.F.: Where in Australia has a cattle duffer
been lynched ? S.L.: Liam O’Flaherty got in
before y0u.... M.F.T.: Hackneyed prodigal-son plot.
. ... J.W.: Your abos. don’t ring true M.C.: Ghost
yarns went out of fashion years ag0....E.N.: It’s
been told before... .J.T.D.: Tame... .F.R..: You
write just like a parliamentary draughtsman....
J.0.A.: Wordy, and the plot won’t hold water....
R. 8.: Sentimental footpad doesn’t strike us as a.
lad who would go bag-snatching W. 8.: Evidently
all you know about the Islands lias been learned
at the talkies... .D.K.: Proceeds at too leisurely a
pace for a short story... .R.J.: Needs cutting in
halves.... T.W.: The only intriguing thing about it
was its title, “The Murder in the Soup Kitchen.”
. ...R.E.V.: Too technical.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.E.T.: Bad drawing is made no better by over-
elaboration. .. .5.N.0.: Untidy and incomplete....
W.K.: Idea inapplicable to situation which so dis-
tresses you... .N.L.P.: No artist need be jealous of
you... .R.J.D.: You need more than a desire to see
your stuff in print—.A.T.: Curb that tendency to
imitate F. J.: Not bad for a novice, but don’t
crib your jokes 11. S.: It doesn’t matter whether
you do it with your left hand or with your feet —
it’s the drawing that counts... .E.G.: Declaration
that you intend to forsake black-and-white art noted.
. ...L.11.5.: Don’t be such a miser with the ink!
. ...T.W.W.: Worthless.... 1v.8.: Doesn’t set us
running to open the cash-box R.L.C.: What do
all those freaks signify?.... .A.0.D.: Spoonerism
attached to a bungled drawing M. 8.: Without
lessons you’re only wasting your time... .W.H.:
Perspective all to pot G.M.: No use throwing a
few perfunctory lines on a piece of soiled card-
board and looking for a buyer... .K.T.: Bloated
figures and dull witticisms... .P.A.: You’ve a spruce
style; now smarten up your humor... .C. 5.8.: Insipid
jests... .D.J.: “If it’s taken I’m afraid I’ll become
awfully swollen headed.” You won’t need to visit
your hatter... .M.J.M.: Drawing lias merit, but joke
destroys its marketable value.... C.D.: Linework
unfinished G. 8.: Have seen some queer hounds,
but none like yours M.T.: Lessons needed
F.N.: Stiff... .J.K.: No chance... .J.E.: Don’t try
to jump Betty Paterson’s claim.... H.8.L.: Con-
fusing W.M.A.: Little hope for you from sample
sent... .S.E.W.: You’re beginning we 11... .A.M.: An
old one G.H.R.: About as bad as they could be.
A.W.: Stiff and unpromising... .11. J.A.:
Amateurish.


df
a
1 1
A
:S*:
m
m
mm
vjf.
-
* * * . »»*
.:. ¥ ■ u-
.
WMh
_. i
- 1
■HI MsKHlfe K
• '
. ■•
St|
.
i
' : *''. ... •
:
M
. ■
i
m
■H
■I
;:. V
;■ .. •:■
m
&
,
lil
>:i ;
.
I
i ■
■
m
<■ ■
:
:w
■
;
.. .
m
■ V-:
USUI
H
-- ,v > ■'.’ '■.. ?'
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD,


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 2739.
August 10, 1932.
THE PACIFISTS.
and charged” anti-war programme led to upwards of 30 arrests. About 200 Reds rushed the Japanese Consulate, and the police drew their batons
SHEPHERD: “What’s going on here?”
BILL: “It’s the anniversary o’ the outbreak of war, an’ the Communists are jist demonstratin’ in favor of peace.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: llh-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westiulia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, lk Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W. 0.2.
Temple Bar 5195.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 k s • ; 6 months, 12c. 6d.;
S months, 7s,
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
< months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for koz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
BANKS AND THEIR CLIENTS.
A brick aimed at a bank is pretty sure of
a cheer; and the banks themselves are
greatly responsible for it. Until a few years
ago they affected utter indifference to public
opinion; if they did not scorn popular
clamor, they took no steps to justify them-
selves. Indeed, they hung on to methods
which “put them wrong.” The issue of
new shares offered a frequent example of
this. Though it was said from a hundred
platforms that bank dividends were too
high, they were again and again made to
look far higher than they actually were by
the issue of new shares at a heavy pre-
mium. Occasionally from the chair at an
annual meeting there was something in the
nature of a defence of a bank’s policy; but
in the shape of a vigorous campaign to
dispel misconception and prejudice, noth-
ing worth mentioning has been done to
this day. And the chief reason appears to
be that, instead of being a united body of
freebooters, as they are so often said to be,
there is less cohesion among them than
among almost any other group of people in
the same line of business—less cohesion and
keener competition. Had there been a
better understanding among them it is
highly probable that the public would have
been the gainer. Certainly rivalry has led,
for one thing, to the multiplication of
branches and the waste of money on im-
pressive branch offices and the maintenance
of branch staffs out of all reason.
It seems certain that Australian banking
policy in relation to the primary industries
has had much to do, not only with this
multiplication of branches, but with piling
up the difficulties of the business generally
in Australia. From the beginning advances
have been made in this country on the
security of farm lands—a step taken to
hasten the development of the industry in
the face of what were admitted to be
tremendous odds. So large a proportion
of Australian banking business consists
nowadays of these rural loans that the
policy of making such advances is accepted
as quite a matter of course. Yet even the
Canadian Bank Act forbids banks to lend
upon lands or immovable property; and
there is hardly another country in the world
where advances are made, as they are made
in Australia, against the wool on a sheep’s
back or an unharvested crop in a paddock.
And this is not an easy country to
make such loans in. On the contrary,
with our variable climate, the. risks must
be far greater than they would be in most
of those lands where they are regarded as
too great to be taken. If, in these circum-
stances, Australian bankers adopt a more
cautious policy than some of their critics
would advise, there is obviously good reason
for it.
If banks worked on their own money
there might be less need for extreme
caution; universally, however, in Australia
as elsewhere, the bulk of what they lend is
the public’s. For the first quarter of this
year the average total liabilities of the 10
ordinary trading banks of Australia were
288 millions. Of this amount 190 millions
were deposits repayable at various dates,
very largely at three or six months; 92
millions were deposits repayable on de-
mand; and there was a miscellaneous six
millions chiefly payable on demand or at
short notice. Their own combined funds—
capital and reserves—were 84 millions.
Thus their total resources were 372 millions.
Of that amount 40 millions were lent to
Governments and public bodies (25 mil-
lions of it to finance State deficits) and
there were 228 millions of ordinary
advances. The banks are thus in this
position: they have lent 268 millions and
have only 84 millions of their own; so
they are dependent on depositors for 184
millions of their advances. And their fixed
deposits—-fixed for anything from a day to
two years—amount to only 190 millions.
The Premiers’ Plan provided for a 22t
p.c. reduction of interest on Government
loans held in Australia, “a reduction of bank
and Savings Bank rates of interest on
deposits and advances” and “relief in
respect of private mortgages”—the extent
of both the reduction and relief unspeci-
fied. The circumstances of the time de-
manded all this. But the position of the
banks was not at all like that of the
Governments. By what was called a volun-
tary conversion the Governments not only
cut down the rate of interest 22-|- p.c. but
pushed repayments of principal far into the
distance. No “voluntary” plan of that sort
was available to the banks. If a bank
depositor was not satisfied with a substan-
tial reduction of interest, he could with-
draw his money; and, as we have already
seen, any large withdrawals could only be
met by the liquidation of assets, the very
last thing Australia wants to see at the
present time.
It is complained that the banks have not
carried out their part of the Plan. Seeing
that their part was left indefinite, it is
not possible to say either that they have
or that they haven’t. They claim, however,
that they made an all-round average reduc-
tion of 1 p.c. in advance rates, as from
October 1 last. They say, moreover, that,
deposit rates having been brought down,
the way has now been opened for a further
reduction of interest rates on advances. But
no matter what reduction is made, it is
certain that there will be discontent; for
it is not the interest which is the bugbear
in thousands of cases, but the principal
debt.
This presents a tremendous problem.
Hitherto when a crash has come in prices,
the mortgagor has gone to the wall; pro-'
perties .have been thrown on the hands of
the mortgagee, who has then been obliged
to write down his own capital to cover his
loss. With four exceptions all the banks
in Australia had to make terms with their
creditors in 1893, and some of them were
still working off the dead horse 29 years
later. To-day the world is different; there
is a fixed belief that the mortgagor should
not be disturbed—that, no matter how
much the capital value of the property has
depreciated, his equity ought to be pre-
served. How it is going to be done with-
out laying violent hands upon the deposits
in the hands of the mortgage cos. —banks
included—it is hard to see. The banks
and other institutions cannot do more than
their depositors will allow’ them to do. If
those deposits are treated in the same way
as the Commonwealth loans were treated,
repayment being deferred, then the mort-
gagor can be left in possession, to await a
recovery in prices, and in capital values.
So long as deposits are liable to be called
for, so long must there be danger of fore-
closures and forced sales.
THE LABOR CLEAVAGE.
Wherever there is a Labor party speaking
English there is to-day a cleavage in it—
in Britain, in Ireland, in Canada, in S.
Africa and in Australia. The surprising
thing, however, is, not that the party should
be threatened with division, but that it has
remained whole so long. The name, to
begin with, was a stroke of genius; it
appealed to every worker of every descrip-
tion who felt that he was not getting a
fair share of what was produced or was in
danger of not getting it. For the better
part of 30 years the Parliamentary party
was in Opposition practically everywhere.
While that condition lasted there was no
great difficulty in keeping it together. Year
by year it discussed its platform and shaped
and reshaped it as this or that section
waxed or waned in influence. But for the
most part its platform consisted of a series
of pious resolutions and sentimental aspira-
tions. Almost anything could be dropped
in to satisfy an urgent section.
Then the time came when the party was
no longer in Opposition, but had the respon-
sibilities of Government. The result was
soon shown. What had seemed so possible
and necessary began to have a different
complexion. Labor leader after Labor leader,
having reached office, failed to satisfy those
who pressed on behind him; and to-day it
is almost true to say that the trusted leader
who becomes a Labor Prime Minister or
Premier merely steps to the scaffold. The
list of men who have left the party or
been driven from it after leading a Labor
Government is tragic—from Ramsay Mac-
Donald in England to Watson, Hughes,
Holman, Theodore, Daglish, Hogan, Verran,
Hill and a dozen others in Australia.
The simple explanation is that for many
years past either the whole platform or
planks of it have meant quite different
things to different sections of the party.
Thus right from the beginning a plank
declaring for “public ownership of the
means of production, distribution and
exchange” has been in almost every plat-
form. If the early members had been
asked what they meant by it, most of them
would have said something vague about
railways and waterworks and lighting; and
there are hundreds of thousands who grew
up in that faith. But another school came
into being which put quite a different mean-
ing upon this plank and its various exten-
sions; and that is what is the matter to-
day and has been the matter ever since
the first Labor Government reached office.
Now, this is not honest, and is the. entire
negation of Democracy. Democracy aims
at getting the opinion of the majority and
carrying it into effect. The aim of those
in control of the Labor party has been not
to put the will of the people into effect, but
to compel a large body of them to support
policies to which they are entirely opposed.
Nor is there any hope of a compromise
between these sections. The cleavage goes
to the very foundations of public policy.
On the one side are those who believe in
the Communist system which Russia is
making so prodigious an effort to establish;
on the other the system of private enter-
prise which carried the civilised world so
far until the Great War threw a spanner
into the machinery. The Communist sys-
tem may be right. But to attempt its
adoption by the votes of anti-Communists
is wickedly wrong, and an offence against
the cardinal principles of Democracy.
The Communists are not, however, going
to worry about wrongs done to Democracy
or the majority. They have a confessed
contempt for both. Their avowed policy
is to use any instrument which comes to
their hands. Their leaders have declared
again and again that the majority is a
“poor, amorphous mass,” fit only to be the
tools of the “conscious minority.” Com-
munism is the rule of this “conscious minor-
ity.” In Russia the party never exceeded
600.000; but it imposed its rule on
150,000,000. This makes one very suspicious
of the Empire-wide cleavage. Are the Com-
munists likely to put themselves where they
cannot make catspaws of this “poor, amor-
phous mass,” the majority?
What has their record been? Hitherto,
as we have seen, it has always been the
Communists or their tools who have taken
charge of expulsions from the Labor party:
no leader has ever been turned out for
going too far their way. Occasionally a
pretence has been made of forbidding Com-
munists to come within the party, and even
Mr. Garden has had to cut his connection
with Russia, so it has more than once been
widely reported. Communists, too, have
been put up against Labor candidates in
scores of electorates. But at the Easter
conference in Sydney in 1931, Lang being
then in office, it was carried by 57 votes to
44 that the Government be* instructed to
put Sovietism into effect for an experi-
mental three-year period. It is true that
this caused such consternation among the
“poor, amorphous mass” that the resolu-
tion was rescinded—though only by a
narrow margin—two or three days later.
But there was the fact: notwithstanding all
the professed determination of the Labor
party to keep the Communists out, an
absolute majority was found in the Con-
ference—the ruling body of the Parliamen-
tary Labor party in N. S. Wales—in favor
of immediate Sovietism; and, when that
was rescinded, it was still agreed that dur-
ing the next three years steps should be
taken to ensure the success of “the Revolu-
tion.” Who was in charge of some, at
least, of those steps may be judged from
the fact that a few months later Mr. Lang
proudly proclaimed that the Revolution
was in progress. And there is no doubt
that it was.
If there is going to be any real cleavage,
then, it will not come from the Com-
munists. It will have to come from those
members of the Labor party who believe
that the Russian methods are not suitable
to our needs, and that, with all its faults,
Democracy is better than rule by a cold
and merciless oligarchy. Numerous emis-
saries from Australian unions have lately
returned from Russia, telling what they
have been permitted to see. The Bulletin
has never allowed itself to believe that the
Communists’ plans may not succeed.
They ought to succeed. The way was pre-
pared by the execution of 28 bishops and
1219 priests within the first nine years of
Soviet rule; in those nine years over
1,700,000 people were slaughtered, almost
half of them farmers who sought to defend
their holdings against the agents of the
Revolution. To-day the plans are being
pushed on by a system of slaVery, thinly
disguised as compulsory labor. Com-
munism might succeed in Australia; but
does the price make it worth while? If
Labor does not think so, then it must
cease to be made use of in order to bring
it about. And it can only cease by insist-
ing that the cleavage shall be something
more than a camouflage.
THE FOUNDER OF MELBOURNE.
Victoria finds difficulty in naming its
founder. The question was lately resur-
rected by the imminence of the Centenary;
and soon the ancient quarrel proved it had
left none of its asperity in the tomb where
it had lain for years. The truth is that the
class war is not nearly so modem as we
sometimes think. “When Adam delved and
Eve span’’ there probably was “no gentle-
man”; but we can be pretty sure that it
did not take many generations to produce
a cleavage. In any case it is not easy to
determine just what a founder is. There
nearly always has been someone ahead of
the official or professional explorer. It is not
always that the two meet as they did once
in Queensland. The explorer was describing
how his party laboriously ascended a cer-
tain mountain, when another voice broke
in on the meeting: “But why didn’t you
go up by our cart track?”
It is certain there were many camps in
Victoria before either Batman or Fawkner
arrived. Bass on his first voyage.south from
Sydney found seven escaped convicts on an
island. Of sealers’ camps there were many
—the most permanent perhaps on Kangaroo
Island. And then there was the establish-
ment set up ift 1803 in chai’ge of Colonel
Collins. A very substantial establishment,
too —the Calcutta man-o’-war had come
with a complement of 170 men, and the
Ocean transport, of 500 tons, had brought
367 convicts and the wives of 17 of them.
But Collins was not the man for the job;
and next year the settlement was moved to
Tasmania. How many Collins left behind
him is not known; eight got away in the
first month. One certainly remained, Wil-
liam Buckley, to welcome the newcomers
31 years later. Maybe he was not the
founder of Melbourne, but he was, so far
as the historian can trace, the first per-
manent white settler.
After that came the explorers from the
north, fascinated by stories told of West-
ernport by ships’ crews from Hobart.
Hovell’s graphic report led to another
attempted settlement, and another ignomin-
ious retreat in 1826. But there still were
people in Tasmania who believed that the
land was good. Gellibrand, the lawyer, and
John Batman, the big, vigorous bushman,
joined therefore in an application to Gov-
ernor Darling in Sydney for a grant of land.
“We propose,” they wrote, “to shift from
this place (Launceston) 1500 to 2000 sheep, 30
head of superior cows, oxen, horses, etc., etc.,
to the value of £4OOO to £5000; the whole to
be under the personal direction of Mr.
Batman (who is a native of N. S. Wales),
who will constantly reside there for the pro-
tection of the establishment.” That was in
the year following the failure of the expedi-
tion' last mentioned; the Governor was in
no mood to discuss Westernport, and the
grant was not made.
And now we get close to the old quarrel
over the claims of Batman and Fawkner.
This much is certain: though Batman was
not accommodated with a grant in 1827, he
did not abandon the idea of a settle-
ment on the mainland. Governor Darling
had decided that he had no power to make
the grant: Batman seems to have assumed
from this that he must deal with the‘native
owners of the land, just as the settlers were
doing in Maoriland.
Batman accordingly, promoted an associa-
tion, and had the backing of many of the
most influential citizens of Hobart; _ it is
suggested that Governor Arthur himself
unofficially approved the enterprise. Batman
embarked on May 12, 1835, but, delayed by
adverse winds, did not reach Port Phillip
till May 29. On May 30 he wrote in his
diary: “To my great joy and delight we
saw at some distance the natives’ fires; I
intend to go off to them early in the morn-
ing, and get, if possible, on a friendly foot-
ing with them, in order to purchase land/’
He explored the neighborhood till June 6.
when he came into touch with the tribe and
explained to them what he was: after. June
7 was spent in marking the land—about
600,000 acres. On June 9 they sailed for
home; but the leader left James Gumm
behind “to put off any persons that may
trespass on the land.” James Bonwick,
who published his “Port Phillip” in 1856,
and was Batman’s most enthusiastic cham-
pion, wrote: —
The particulars mentioned on June 8 are very
important, substantiating', as they do, Mr. Batman’s
knowledge of the Yarra Falls at Melbourne and his
first conception of the favorable position of that
quarter for the establishment of a settlement. Though
not destined to be the Father of Melbourne, we
know not how much that Father was indebted to his
[evidently Batman’s] discovery for the successful
location of Melbourne.
Fawkner did not belong to the same
“class” as Batman, of whom he spoke con-
temptuously as “one of Governor Arthurs
toadies.” He was a “reformer,” always able
to find abuses and ready to show how they
could be repaired; wherefore he founded
the “Advertiser” at Launceston in 1829.
“Johnny’s” own story is that he had long
had in his mind a plan to colonise Port
Phillip. He, too, formed an association, but
not of the same composition as Batman’s;
of Fawkner’s five colleagues, one was a
builder, two were carpenters, one was a plas-
terer, the other a seaman. They acquired
the schooner Enterprise and on July 27,1835
—six weeks after Batman’s return to Tas-
mania—she left that island with a fairly well-
equipped party; but poor Johnny Fawkner
was so desperately seasick that he begged
to be put ashore. The others went on
without him, and by extraordinary good
luck the Enterprise was carried right up to
the basin of the Yarra, almost at the centre
of what is now Melbourne. There they
disembarked,, camped and presently put
some land under cultivation.
James Bonwick had the greatest admira-
tion for Batman and no great fondness for
Fawkner; “it is undeniable,” he wrote, that
to John Batman’s enterprise we owe the
settlement of this wonderful colony.’’ Never-
theless he was compelled to also write that,
“although Mr. Fawkner could not reach the
new place till some six weeks after his five
partners, yet, as he was the prime mover
of the undertaking, and, according to his
own showing* the planner of the expedition,
and the selector of the very Yarra locality
for settlement, he may justly be entitled to
the distinguished honor of being the Founder
of Melbourne.”
If. however, it is not the Founder that
Melbourne is seeking, but the Pioneer
Settler of Victoria, then we must turn from
both Batman and Fawkner and pass from,
both Geelong and Melbourne to Portland,
where the Hentys. of Launceston, formed a
settlement in 1833, nearly two years before
Batman got his valueless “title” from the
natives, or, Fawkner’s lucky Enterprise
poked her nose into the Yarra basin, r
P.H.S.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Let’s Re-employ 300,000 Men!
In this year’s “Annals of Collective
Economy,” an international review pub-
lished in four languages, the editor, Professoi
Milhaud, of the University of Geneva, re-
peats in effect The Bulletin’s frequent cry,
“Let’s re-employ 100,000 men!” Here, this
paper has argued, we have a million people
maintaining not only themselves, but
300.000 others; and if 1,000,000 people in a
country like Australia can maintain 1,300,000
people, it is beyond all question that the
1,300,000 people could maintain themselves
much better. Professor Milhaud comes to
precisely the same conclusion regarding the
millions of unemployed in most countries.
In Australia The Bulletin suggested that,
as the operations of the re-employed would
have to be financed, the business should
be controlled by a joint committee of em-
ployees, employers and bankers. Professor
Milhaud suggests an alternative method.
He proposes to establish a National Office
for the Furtherance of Production, with
representatives of the three classes sug-
gested for the Australian committee; but
he would give it far greater powers than
The Bulletin proposed. He would autho-
rise it to issue advances to employers in the
form of purchasing certificates entitling the
holder to purchase the commodities of the
employers who had engaged the unem-
ployed labor. The commodities would be
on sale at all stores which had undertaken
to accept the purchasing certificates in pay-
ment, the stores receiving also an advance
equal to their expenses and profits. The
purchasing certificates would remain valid
only for a fixed period—say three months.
Thus hoarding would be excluded, while
Milhaud believes that an adequate pur-
chasing power would be created for the
output of the re-employed men. “Each
participant,” he says, “places on the market
during a given period a volume of supple-
mentary commodities and a volume of. pur-
chasing power of equal value, ensuring thus
the maintenance of the equilibrium”; for
the certificates would cover not only wages
but all other expenses.
To the objection that the issue of cer-
tificates would be inflation, Milhaud answers
quite soundly that inflation is “an increase
in purchasing power without a correspond-
ing increase in the commodities available.”
Having been presented at a shop in pay-
ment for commodities, the work of these
certificates would be done; they would be
returned to the National Office. The limit-
ing of their validity to a fixed period would
ensure that a purchase was promptly made.
No doubt there would be difficulties to
overcome. It is not clear that it would
not be possible for, say, the shop handling
the goods to charge more for them than
the purchasing certificates issued against
them; the National Office might, however,
be given powers to bring to book any trader
who sought to thus depreciate the cer-
tificates.
The scheme is worth close examination.
Nowhere does it seem to be more likely to
succeed than in Australia. It is certainly
a disgrace that wc should still drift on
after three years of crisis, making no
attempt to employ the 300,000 men who
could be their own market if they were
given a chance to do productive work.
♦—
“Business” and Taxation.
Why shouldn’t a man who has a win at
i he ponies or draws a prize in one of
Whiddon’s lotteries pay income tax oii it?
And why shouldn’t a man who makes losses
with either Mr. Whiddon or a bookmaker
have the right to deduct them when declar-
ing his income? In a case before the High
Court last week a grazier who saw that
things were going against him, and who
attempted to make a recovery by backing
horses, appealed against the Taxation Com-
missioner’s refusal to allow him to deduct
his losses from his income; and Justice
Evatt decided that, since the man was not
carrying on the business of punting, the
Commissioner was quite right. But where
can the line be drawn? A man practises
law. But there is no reason why, though
law may be his business from 10 to 4,
coaching or journalism or punting should
not be his business from 4 to 6. Moreover,
it is possible for a man to engage in a
business for five minutes only’. A man sees
a chance of making a fat commission by
the sale of a property. While he is en-
gaged upon it, it is as much his business
as anything he will ever do in his life. So
far as 19 men out of 20 are concerned, their
business is to make money ; and to say
that they are not doing it when they are
on one of their side-lines is quite absurd:
But that, of course, in the case under
notice, is the Law’s fault, not the Judge’s.
»
The Bead and the Libel Laws.
It is a coincidence that a discussion should
have started in the “S. M. Herald” about
the rights of the dead in their reputations
at the same time as one is proceeding in
England on the same subject. The widow
of Theodore Watts-Dunton has a letter in
the “New Statesman and Athenaeum” com-
plaining that a reviewer called her husband
a forger.
The dead cannot bring actions, but I venture to
suggest that our laws should be so improved by a
new Act of Parliament that those who suffer from
blackguardly abuse of tlicir loved ones should be
empowered to bring offenders into a. Court of Justice,
there, if guilty, to receive the same penalty which
their victim in his lifetime could have caused to
be inflicted on them.
When Captain Wright libelled the late W.
E. Gladstone, the G.O.M.’s son, Lord Glad-
stone, libelled him so grossly that he had
to bring an action. A jury found against
Wright, and he was ruined. But the aver-
age person can’t afford such roundabout
methods of getting justice, and an aged
widow like Mrs. Watts-Dunton mightn’t
have the spirit to employ them even if
she had the money. Also, most libellers
are unlibellable, and can’t be got into Court.
Obviously Parliament should put the dead
on a footing with the living as regards their
reputations for, at any rate, a given period.
Thellusson’s “twenty-one years and a life in
being” would meet the case, though most
reputable writers of memoirs and the like
put their works in cold-storage in some such
place as the British Museum for a longer
term. A sense of decency, a sentimental
regard for the feelings of the relations and
friends of the dead, is the motive in the
case of the memoir-writers; but of course,
the law has nothing to do with sentiment.
The sole object of libel and slander laws
is to provide alternatives to personal
revenge. They are part of the machinery
for the preservation of the peace. Some
people may do nothing in face of criminal
libels on their dead relatives—a criminal
libel is one that is liable to get the libeller
injured or even murdered—but others are
less self-controlled. If Mrs. Watts-Dunton,
for example, had shot the man who called
her husband a forger, she might have got
off in England, and she almost certainly
would have in France. But that is just
the kind of “wild justice” that the laws
exist to prevent.
♦
£82,315,000
All over the world there are serious doubts
about democracy. Some countries are
turning to Communism, some to Fascism;
but the purpose in cither case is to set up
a dictatorship in place of government by
the mass. And, honestly, can we be sur-
prised at it when we look at our own
record for the past three years?
When the crash came we knew what was
the cause, so far as Australia was con-
cerned. We had been for years borrowing
wildly and piling up not only an enormous
load of debt, but, through the extravagance
of our public and “social” services, a crush-
ing load of taxation. The obvious and
instant demand was for economy; and that
was cheerfully admitted. But almost as
soon as the admission was made it was
found that Governments could only econo-
mise at the expense of people who had
votes to give away; and from that moment
one of the chief occupations of politicians
has been to talk economy and avoid it.
There was only one honest way of avoiding
it—by increasing taxation. But here again
the perplexing discovery was made that the
only people who could be taxed were those
who also had votes to give away. The
result is shown in the growth of floating
debt; for if Governments shied off both
economy and taxation, there was only one
other thing to do—to loot the banks.
On July 1, 1929, just when the dark
clouds were massing, Australia’s floating
debt—that is to say, its odds and ends of
liabilities which this banker and that had
been asked to chalk up—amounted to
£5,500,000. By the end of the next year it
was £38,500.000. A year later it had reached
£58,695,000. And now it is an appalling
£82,315,000. There was some faint shadow
of excuse for the tragic performance put
up in the first year; the storm came too
suddenly to make full provision against
it. But what can be said of last year’s
tragedy—an increase of £23,620,000, a
greater deficit than that of the previous
year! And but for the Hoover mora-
torium and Britain’s suspension of war-debt
charges it would have been £5,600,000 worse.
There is only one extenuating circumstance:
Lang’s deficit alone was £13,570,000.
In the bad days of our bogus prosperity
we regarded deficits as mere matters of
book-keeping. They are not mere matters
of book-keeping to-day. They are debts
owing mostly to our own banks, which have
had to stint other customers in order to
provide the money. We excuse ourselves
for piling up the prodigious funded debt of
1100 millions by pleading that we paid for
railways and other development works with
the money. There is no such excuse for
these deficits. They are not represented
by public works or anything else tangible;
they are payments for our public and
“social” services which we arc compelling
others to make for us. We are telling one
another that it would be monstrous if we
reduced this payment or that; we are taking
credit for meeting our obligations to widows
and orphans and others; we are declaring—
some of us—that never will we be parties
to the reduction of wages. And we meet
our obligations and maintain wages by
passing the bill on to our children. After
three years, what excuse can we possibly
find for this sort of thing?
♦
The Speed' Mania.
First high motor-speed was the danger the
police thought they had to check. Then
some clever person said that the fastfer
motors travelled the sooner they would be
out of the way, wherefore to avoid con-
gestion it was best to make the motorist
“step on it”; and to-day there is almost a
mania among the police for speeding up
traffic. When the Sydney Harbor Bridge
was opened there was no discouragement
whatever of speed, though, since constables
were scattered over the surface, without
any protection whatever, high speed was
plainly dangerous. The inevitable happened
one night last week, when a car crashed into
two constables and killed them instantly.
The facts of this particular case are not
open for discussion; but it may be per-
mitted to express the hope that so deplor-
able an event will lead the authorities in
Melbourne as well as Sydney to seriously
consider whether the stirring up of traffic
has not been overdone—whether it has not
encouraged the public to speed where and
-when speed is wholly uncalled for.
»
Exchange or Bonus?
The suggestion of a bonus to exporters of
primary products, which has been discussed
by various Bulletin correspondents, won
approval last week from James Kidd, chair-
man of the Producers’ Association Central
Council and of the Producers’ Advisory
Council, though he made it clear that in
this matter he spoke only for himself. Be-
ing satisfied that these producers must
have help. Mr. Kidd explored ways of
rendering it.
The position, as he found it, is really the
same as it was nearly three years ago when
this crisis fell upon us. We could then
(1) adopt inflation, in some form, (2) cut
costs or (3) bonus our export industries,
lu the early stages of our troubles, bonuses
had little attention; it did not seem pos-
sible to px-ovide such a bonus as would
give producers of wool, at any rate, a decent
living. Nominally we turned to the reduc-
tion of costs, after Mr. Theodore had made
his attempt at currency inflation. But, for
one thing, Mr. Lang soon stood in the way
of a serious reduction of costs so far as
N. S. Wales was concerned; and the union
influence was strong enough to prevent
much being done anywhere. Without any
reference to Parliament or politicians, the
Bank of N. S. Wales got around that failure
by forcing a backstairs measure of inflation.
At that time it could be justified: it was
necessary to balance our external trade,
and a high exchange rate achieved it by
encouraging exports and discouraging im-
ports. But since that time our external
trade figures have changed completely, and,
as Mr. Kidd says, “the present position of
rates of exchange is anomalous and cannot
be supported logically. If the rates were
now fixed as of old, having regard to the
balances between exports and imports, 'it
would be very materially less, and not far
from par.” The maintenance of the rate
is, indeed, now a danger; for it is en-
couraging politicians, as Mr. Kidd says, to
neglect the real problems:—
They are banking- on the camouflage of the high
exchange rates helping the producers until something
turns up. This is a prostitution of the purpose
for which exchange rates have in the past always
been imposed.
Granted, then, that help must be given
to these industries, and granted further that
reduction of costs is too slow and uncertain,
it becomes necessary to consider whether,
after all, the bonus system would not be
the best thing—or, at any rate, the least
bad thing.
In the first place it is certain that, no
matter in which way the help is given, wc
shall have to provide the money ourselves.
Every penny of the exchange premium has
to come out of the community’s pockets,
just as every penny of a bonus would. But
a bonus might be collected in a more
equitable manner. The exchange is paid
by the importer equally on all classes of
goods. Even though the article may be
declared by the Customs to be of such a
character that it should be admitted duty-
free, the exchange imposes upon it a duty
of from 25 to 40 p.c. The raw materials
of certain Australian industries, which have
been admitted duty free, now struggle in
under the game charge of from 25 to 40
per cent. These charges the importer
either carries or passes on to the public.
Behind this super-tariff it is, moreover, pos-
sible for Australian manufacturers to raise
their charges; behind it it is possible also
for trade unions to press for higher wages.
Thus at the very moment when we ought
to be reducing costs we set up machinery
for increasing them.
Further, the exchange premium is a bonus
of exactly the same amount on exports of
every class. It is at present a 25 p.c. bonus
on butter—which is already bonussed—as
it is on wool. It is a 25 p.c. bonus, too, on
such manufactures as are exported, even
though these lines also have had the advan-
tage of a high tariff.
The bonus was pushed aside at the out-
set of our troubles chiefly because it seemed
impossible to raise enough to give the
necessary relief. Since then we have got
more used to being skinned. How much
exchange is costing this country directly
and indirectly nobody knows; but, counting
in the premium which we pay on shipments
of public and pi’ivate interest abroad, it is
probably nearer 20 millions than 10. With
exchange reduced to par or thereabouts,
the community will obviously be no worse
off if it pays bonuses to a like amount. One
result wiil be an improvement in our
credit abroad. It can do us no good to cry
to the world that our £ is worth only 16s.
to the £ sterling and 11s. 6d. in gold. It
can do us still less good to cry to the world
that our position, is such that we think our
S ought to be still further depreciated. And
it can do no good here at home, either.
We are trying to restore confidence; we are
trying to get people to buy things. But
how can we expect people to give credit
when there is constant talk of raising the
rate of exchange—that is to say, of further
reducing the value of our £?
—o— , ,
Bad Advice from Mr. Keynes. !
That very well-advertised economist J. M.
Keynes has developed a fatherly interest
in Australian affairs, and lately presented
the Commonwealth with some advice. The
only previous occasion on which he looked
in this direction was just after the war,
when he remarked tartly 7, that Australia
and some other Dominions had over-bor-
rowed to such an extent that tl]cy were
only able to pay interest by raising fresh
loans, and that their securities should
therefore be removed from the shelter of
the Act permitting trustees to invest in
them.
Had Mr. Keynes in his recent encyclical
invited us to remember the origin of the
pit we are trying to struggle out of he
might still have been numbered as a
staunch, if candid, friend. But the Mr.
Keynes of 1932 counsels Australia to
lay its plans for reconstruction on an
assumption that world-prices are going to
be “much higher than at present.” If he
were an Australian economist advising Mr.
Lyons, he says, he would tell him that there
was “more prospect of improving the profit-
ableness of business by fostering enter-
prise and measures like public works than
by further pressure on money wages or
further forcing exports.”
Nice, comfortable., soothing advice, if
a trifle hazy on the point as to how enter-
prise is to be fostered. But the point of
these observations—perhaps the reason why
they are made—is contained in. another
section of Mr. Keynes’s essay, in which he
assures us that, our credit in London is
“higher to-day than it has been for several
years”; that “a period of ultra-cheap money
is in prospect” and that “the day is not
far off when respectable borrowers will be
greatly sought.”
Mr. Keynes also advises us to “reduce
the tariff in proportion to the depreciation
of exchange,” and tells us that the one
development that would best suit our book
is a further depreciation of sterling. The
need for currency depreciation in terms of
gold, indeed, is the keynote of his exordium,
not only to Australia, but to the world at
large. But so far as the world has gone
in exploiting that remedy it doesn’t seem
to touch the root of the trouble. IV hen
Britain went off the gold standard the
pound, as compared with the dollar,
dropped to three-quarters of its former
value. Domestic -wholesale prices, there-
fore. on the Keynes theory, should have
risen to four-thirds of their previous
level, an increase of 33b p.c. They rose
only 4 to 5 p.c. And retail prices, which
might have been expected, with a rise in
wholesale prices of 4 to 5 p.c., to rise to 8
to 10 p.c., actually fell. The explanation
of the apparent anomaly is that Britain is
drawing a big percentage of imports from
countries like Australia, which are not on
gold, and that even countries still on gold,
like the U.5.A.,. have suffered a 10 p.c.
currency depreciation since Britain went
off. Britain’s easier economic position is
ascribed by the Chancellor as much to the
new tariff as to the reduced value of the
pound. But whatever it is due to, it came
about in a period when drastic steps were
being taken to economise on Governmental
expenditure, and it wasn’t due to an antici-
pation of being able to borrow largely in
the near future. The hard truths
told us remain true, and to tell us merely
to wait for the reopening of the pawnshop,
which is what the Keynes recipe boils down
to. isn’t helpful.
A Brotherhood Goes Shooting.
A story from the North:—
I saw Communism put to the test once, not in
S. America, where it may have had special dis-
advantages to fight, but in Australia, where it had
none. It was in the Blackall district in the ’eighties,
when the brotherhood of man was being preached
in every hut and the foundations were laid for the
expedition to Paraguay under William Lane. W-
shore over ISO,OO'O sheep and there were good cheques
at the cut-out. About 20 shearers and shedhands,
who had been the chief advocates of Communism—
and good chaps most of them were—applied for
and were given the right to shoot kangaroos on i
30,000-acre paddock. It looked good; the animals
were thick and prices for skins high. They pooled
their money and bought tents, tucker, equipment,
etc., including rifles and ammunition. They camped
together, agreed on a few simple rules and took
the cooking week-about. They were a happy,
enthusiastic crowd and I confess I envied them.
To make matters still better, the money was good.
It was part of my job to ride round and over
this paddock occasionally in case bad marksmanship
might be destroying sheep; there was never a
suggestion that they might steal. Noticing a change
one day three months after the start, I asked one
chap I knew very well what was up. Bill’s reply
was that he was a dead-shot; every time he fired
he either wounded or killed. “But, Ilughie”—-
I-lughie was his mate —“is a fair cow of a
shot; uses an average of four cartridges to each
’roo.’’’ Meeting Sandy a few days later I asked
him how things were. “No good,” said
Sandy. “I shoot and skin my 20 a day; Bill
and Malcolm are such lazy cows that when
they’ve potted 10 they go into camp.” One man
I only knew as Skittles volunteered his tale within
a fortnight of that. “Bob’s a good bloke in some
ways,” he told me, “but a dirty at cooking;
his tucker isn’t fit for a dog.” Later Rowley
assured me he pegged out three skins to some c-f
the so-and-so’s one. “No good to me,” he said.
The next news I got from the camp was that
there had been three fights. Shortly afterwards
the skins, etc., were divided, the paddock was
cut up among those who cared to stick it out. ami
camps for ones or twos were scattered about till
the place was cut out.


mmmm
r
m
Said the doctor...
‘change to
CRAVEN “A”
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6. 50 in flat tins, 3/9. 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years’ Reputation for Quality
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Commonwealth Bank has been piling
up money in London, largely because it
might be wanted to repay the. N.S.W. loan
of 13 millions-odd which falls due this year.
London “Daily Telegraph,” however, thinks
that, as soon as the ban on new issues is
lifted, Jno. Bull would seriously consider
a loan at 4J p.c. issued at about 94 with
a 20 or 30 years’ currency. This sounds
comforting; a loan on such terms would
cost us at most £4 18s. lOd. p.c.
The bonus seems to have more juice in
it than the exchange on which the wool and
wheat men are expected to keep going.
Queensland and Westralia were the only
States which had more registered motor-
cars last year than in 1929. The one has
the sugar agreement to help; the other the
gold bonus.
Earle Page, “answering objections” to the
subdivision of N. S. Wales, says Sydney
needn’t worry—“at the very worst, it would
merely have a repetition of the existing
system of recurring Labor and non-Labor
Governments.” And why should New Eng-
land and Riverina worry? If they are not
cut off, at the very worst they will merely
have a repetition of the existing system of
recurring Labor and non-Labor Govern-
ments.
When Forgan Smith returned from “put-
ting the Premiers in their place” by agreeing
to their Plan, he found a spirit of revolt
among his disciples. The cry of “Gimme”
now resounds through Queensland. Every
good unionist and Government clerk is shout-
ing “Gimme 1928 wages and conditions.”
Foggy’s contribution to the chorus is “Gimme
time.”
The great difficulty at Ottawa is that the
Old Man in London wants to discourage
Dominion manufactures a little so as to
make more room in the Dominions for the
products of his own factories, and to buy
their acquiescence by helping their raw-
material industries without putting up prices
to any serious extent against his own people.
Therefore he is up against a healthy pro-
blem, and no great headway had been made
towards solving it after a fortnight’s talk.
Canada is buying a lot more Australian
goods these days, and talks of increasing
its British purchases by 100 to 200 million
dollars p.a. provided the Old Man comes to
light with suitable preferences and quotas,
wheat, fish and base metals being specially
mentioned. During the war Canada sup-
plied munitions to the Old Man, and since
the war it has paid off a considerable
amount of its public debt. It is a large
exporter of manufactured goods, notably
ears. Protection and a tendency to chase
the Communist into the sea instead of offer-
ing him the glad hand and the tin hare are
among the reasons why Canada presents a
good appearance these days.
“According to Mr. Gander, his seat-warmer, Mr.
Lang will enter the House of Reps, shortly—the
electors of Reid permitting'.”
“I’m leaving you to lead what’s left of the
army, Bad-OEh-ey. Me country needs
me in a softer spot.”
The Lyons Government is going to a lot
of trouble to show why the land tax can’t
be abolished —all of course, amounting to
this, that it wants the money, just like
the footpad does who taps you on the head
and goes . through your pockets. The
Bulletin’s chief objection to the wretched
thing is that it is such a dreadful humbug.
It professes to aim at the subdivision of land,
and most of it is collected from urban lands
which have been subdivided too much
already. And it professes, like all land taxes,
to also aim at the lowering of capital land
values, whereas, the real object being to get
in revenue, the valuers, knowing what their
bosses want, push up paper values sky-high.
The newspapers announce that “the
Board of the Commonwealth Bank has had
its monthly meeting”—alternately in Sydney
and Melbourne —and that looks like pretty
easily-earned fees for somebody. Actually,
the monthly meeting is only a sort of full-
dress review. Some of the directors meet
practically every day; many of the things
which “the bank” does have to be done by
three directors, so that number has to be
always on hand. That is easier than it
sounds with Robert Gibson, the chairman,
giving most of his days and many of his
nights to the bank, and the governor a
director; but the governor is in Ottawa at
present and the deputy-governor isn’t a
director, for some reason or other. Or pro-
bably none.
“Outs in Federal and N.S.W. Parliamentary
salaries are imminent.”
“Approach thou like the rugged Russian
bear, the armed rhinoceros or the
Hyrcan tiger; take any shape but that,
and my firm nerves shall never tremble.”
“Macbeth,” Act III, Scene 4.
The tin-hare, hotly pursued by the brass
hound, fills so much space now in the Syd-
ney papers that it tends to create an un-
pleasant impression abroad that the scuffling
little animal is the big question in Austra-
lian politics, and that the imported Swindell
is a leading figure in this country’s affairs.
Who invented the hare anyhow, and when
and why was it returned to Parliament? .
The N.S.W. Labor Council agreed the other
day that the real remedy for unemployment
is to reduce the working week to 35 hours
and increase wages by 25 p.c. A proposal
to reduce the working week to 25 hours was
rejected, at least for the time being, and so
was a suggestion that nobody should work at
all. If work were wholly suspended, the
principal difficulty would be to identify the
employer. An employer whose employees
don’t turn up is apt not to turn up himself.
There is a shocking lack of frankness
about our dealings with our creditors —in-
cluding those we have contracts with. The
Commonwealth professed that its loan con-
version was “voluntary” ; and then punched
all who didn’t convert in the eye, and asked
whether they would convert voluntarily now
or take another. It is behaving much the
same with the sugar agreement; instead of
saying that we can’t afford it, and the
public good requires a variation, we arc
pretending that the concession demanded is
voluntary. The Premiers when they drew
up their plan were reasonably honest.
“These measures,” they said, “drastic as they
may appear, are essential.... The sacrifice
is due to national inability to pay, and it
must therefore be shared by all.”
Because of reckless borrowing for unpro-
ductive works, the financial collapse of the
Government railways and —worst of all—a
run of bad seasons, S. Aus. had to tighten
its belt long before the world slump arrived.
It has steadfastly continued the process dur-
ing the depression years, taxing and re-
trenching with a courage which put its
neighbors to shame. Now it is beginning
to feel that the State which was in the
worst position when prices collapsed will be
in the best when they recover. Nature has
played its part in the substantial surplus
of exports over imports, but man may claim
credit for the reduction of £426,000 in the
anticipated deficit for 1931-32 and for the
healthier condition of industry, reflected m
the decline in the number of South Aus-
tralians receiving Government relief. Tak-
ing maximum figures for two winters, ,>b,ooo
were on the dole in 1931; 24,330 in 1932.
About a quarter of a million Australians,
now out of work, would be glad to have
steady jobs in the post office, with short
hours, plenty of holidays, regulated wages,
a public-service arbitrator to see fair, and
the general taxpayer to meet annual losses
and provide superannuation benefits; but it
seems that a lot of those who possess these
privileges don’t value them. They are down-
trodden serfs with grievances which they
can’t get redressed —at least, one of their
union secretaries says so. They are “seeth-
ing with discontent.” It is about time the
taxpayer did some “seething” about having
to find £200,000 or £300,000 p.a. for a
bloated monopoly which can’t make ends meet
even though it charges tuppence for deliver-
ing a letter on the other side of the street.
The Lang-planners and other Communistic
gentlemen who scoff at gold, and want what
they call a goods standard, ought to have
a few words to say to Stalin and the other
heads. The Soviet is building up a gold
reserve (it rose from 48,361,000 tseherwonzes
as at March 1, 1931, to 63,996,000 as at
March 1, 1932), with another 2,227,000 in
"precious metals.” The total cover for the
banknotes in circulation is roughly 50 p.c.;
the total cover in gold is 24.4 p.c.-—the other
26 p.c. is in foreign bills and securities. If
some of these Australian trades-hall emis-
saries who are settling in Russia talk about
“issuing credits” like they talk in Australia,
they will be shut up as lunatics.
Ex-Priminister Scullin, who says he > is
still an anti-inflationist, has been talking
(lie usual vague nothings about “credits.”
“The world cannot afford to leave the
control of credits to the vagaries and
manipulations of profit-makers,” Honest
James says. But Honest J. needn’t leave
it to the profit-makers. He can issue credits
himself for any amount he likes. He may,
however, find out that issuing credits is
not as harmless as it looks. It is just like
going bail for a man. Nothing happens as
long as the man comes up to the mark ; but
if he doesn’t, then you’re stung.
Porter Mullins, Vic. Railway Union’s mis-
sion or to Soviet Russia, would say nothing
to the reporters when he returned last week.
Comrade Clifford, who inspected the Red
Republic—or as much of it as he could see,
or was allowed to see, in seven weeks —on
behalf of the Sydney building-trades unions,
was more accommodating ; in fact, he blurted
out one reason for Mullins’s silence. Piece-
work and a bonus system obtain in Soviet fac-
tories. Both are anathema to Mullins’s
union.
The League of Nations seems in danger
of another rebuff, this time in South
America, where the Paraguayan war fever
against Bolivia is so fierce that hundreds of
society belles are telling the : Government that
if it won’t give them military transport to
the grim Chaco wilderness they will walk
there. The League’s request to Bolivia to
avert the conflict was met with the retort
MARS: “Go it, you greasers!”
that Paraguay started it. and Paraguay will
no doubt make a similar reply. The League
was a cipher in the Shanghai incident
because its own members, while asserting
their hatred of war in any shape or form,
weren’t prepared to back up their ideals even
to the extent of refusing to trade with the
guilty party, even if it could have decided
which was the guilty party.
Lang’s latest: —-
The world is divided into consumers and producers.
Those who are not producers are of little use.
Another theory, which had a great vogue
in N.S.W. until the unforeseen happened, is
that the world is divided into (1) politicians,
tin-hare promoters and their friends, and (23
those who are born at the rate of one a
minute.
VISITOR: “Can’t see anything wonderful
about him.”
RESIDENT: “Nothing wonderful! Why lie's
the only barrister in Sydney who isn't
briefed on a Royal Commission!”
Years ago Vic. Parliament established a
fund for the supplying of comforts to suf-
ferers from miners’ phthisis. As mining de-
clined the number of beneficiaries grew until
in 1930-31 the expenditure was nearly 23
times the total in the first year. Now 360
names have been removed from the list, and
allowances have been reduced from £6 to £3
a quarter. Some of the 300, it was found,
had substantial banking accounts; others
were not suffering from phthisis at all. It
is expected that the outlay this year will lv
£13,500, as against £36,300 in 1930-31.
Queensland’s Royal Commission, which is
inquiring about the payment of secret com-
missions in connection with butter factories
and dairy farms, has got well into its stride.
Like all Royal Commissions it discovered
early in the piece that the human memory
is a frail and fleeting thing. The Commission
is supposed to end by August 19, but as
it will have to journey over much of Queens-
land, including the far Northern tablelands,
it may be in action as long as Sydney’s Tin
Hare Commission, whose term has been
extended for two months.
N.S.W. unemployed-relief tax is Is. in the
£, and in the case pf salaries and wages it
is levied on gross income. The Common-
wealth department tardily announced that
the 5 p.c. taken by the State would not be
subject to the Federal income tax, and it
was supposed that the State department
would follow suit. But in the returns which
had to be lodged at the beginning of the
month the taxpayer was not allowed to claim
the unreceived 5 p.c. as a State income-tax
deduction; he was obliged to declare what
he had paid in unemployed-relief tax, but
only as a check on the boss. This is a matter
in which the Stevens Government should
intervene if it has any pluck at all. To
compel people to pay tax on income which
they never received is an impudent swindle,
and a Government which cheats will
assuredly be' cheated.
Duuningham, the N.S.W. Minister of Labor,
complained recently that men wouldn’t take
relief work because they could get £3 15s. a
week from the Dole Department, the Family
Endowment Department and the Child Wel-
fare Department without doing a stroke. A
few days later he had to deal with 40 relief
“workers,” who, though “paid £3 15s. a week
of 40 hours,” plus “fares in excess of 6d. a
day,” and “family endowment” —ss. a week
for the second and every succeeding child--
went on strike for aw r ard wages. _ This time
he grew angry, and the “workers,” threatened
with the loss of their “benefits,” trooped
back to their irksome toil; but it is not
expected that his back will remain stilt.
N.S.W. Ministers of Labor strive to be yoo-
manitarian, though the heavens fall.
One difficulty in the way of cutting the
mainland into smaller States is the railways
A simple way out would be to hand over the
State railwav systems and debts to the Com-
monwealth. This would also make possible a
uniform railway gauge. If some genius came
along with a cheap .automatic uniform gauge
there would at least be a central authority
to give the invention a hearing.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“ Jeames”: Mr. Bavin, at a dinner given
as a tribute to his Parliamentary services,
said: “I have always tried to keep the atmo-
sphere of the Assembly such that a gentle-
man can go there without being too un-
comfortable.” It is an interesting example
of confused terminology. Heaven knows
what a gentleman is (no universally satis-
factory definition has ever been devised),
but it is easy to say what a gentleman isn’t,
in the opinion of various sections who have
given the matter deep thought. In hundreds
of British and Continental homes no one is
a gentleman unless he has the right to “bear
arms.” Among the British upper-middle
classes the voice is the test. In Europe
racialism comes into the thing; mem-
bers of the French, Austrian and Ger-
man old Catholic nobility won’t have
it that a Semite can be a gentleman.
Behavior doesn’t matter: a gentleman re-
mains one even in gaol. Once a gentleman
always a gentleman. What Mr. Bavin meant
was that he had tried to make the Assembly
fit for clergymen. But few clergymen are
gentlemen in the eyes of blue-blooded mem-
bers of their congregations on the other side
of the world. I once heard a Governor-
General express regret that a local Anglican
Archbishop w'asn’t a gentleman. His Grace’s
trouble was a faint provincial accent.
* * *
“D.”: I will engage to tell if a given fight
is good or otherwise with my eyes band-
aged. The yells from the bleachers count
for little, as some pugs are locally popular
apart from their merits. The acid tost is
the behavior of an individual w’ho has occu-
pied a seat three or four rows behind mine
at every worth-while fight. I have attended
for the past 25 years. I have never met
him, never even taken the trouble to turn
round and look at him, but I always think
of him as a weedy little man with a domi-
neering wife. His name is Bonehead-— Perce
Bonehead—and he only shakes off the in-
fei’iority complex that has blighted his life
under the spell of an exciting battle. He
was behind me, as usual, in the ringside
seats at the Chastain-Hintz clash. He be-
came articulate almost as soon as it began;
an excellent sign. “Now then, Clyde, bring
that right over !” “Attaboy, Clydey ! Crorse
with yer left!” “Wot about that right of
yours, Clydo?” And so on. When Hintz
began to forge ahead Bonehead transferred
his allegiance, as he always does, and one
heard “Get to ’im, Pickles. Come in close
an’ fight ’im. Don’t you let ’im box yer,
lad!” Or, again, “Slam ’im with yer right.
Pickles, an’ then uppercut to the jor, an’
you’re ’ome an’ dried.” So Perce went on
for the entire 15 rounds, completely ignored
by the boxers and their seconds, scorned
and detested by everybody in his neighbor-
hood. but as happy as the child which, men-
tally speaking, he still is. It always gives
me a faint twinge of sadness to think of
Perce going home after his glorious hour of
noisy self-sufficiency, and being abused, per-
haps even cuffed, by Mrs. Bonehead for stay-
ing out beyond his allotted time.
“Duke of Seven Dials”: A Sydney paper,
discussing the proposal to create Dominion
Law Lords, says that no Australian-born
peer has ever taken his seat in the House
of Lords, our only baron. John Forrest,
having died before he could do so. The
statement overlooks the present Earl of Ducie
(fifth of his line), who was born at Mary-
borough' (Q.), and spent his youth and
early manhood there. His father, the fourth
earl, lived for many years in Bananaland.
and his mother was a Kent, one of a pioneer
family of Queensland. The late “Matt”
Moroton, one of the first resident magis-
trates of British New Guinea to be appointed
by Sir William Macgregor, was an uncle of
the present earl.
“Centurion” : A cable published the other
day states that General Allenby and others
inspected “the memorial which will shortly
be erected at Port Said to the Anzac
Mounted Division of the Imperial Camel
Corps and the Australian Flying Corps.’’
There was no “Anzac Mounted Division of
the Imperial Camel Corps.” But there
was the Anzac Mounted Division, of three
Light Horse brigades from Australia and one
from Maoriland, which General Murray re-
ferred to as “the keystone of the defence of
Egypt.” The A.M.D. was responsible for
the victory of Romani and the subsequent
eviction of the Turks from Sinai which
ended at Rafa. In this last affair the
Imperial Camel Corps came into effective
action for the first time. The Australian
Flying Corps had its first big show at Magd-
haba a few T days earlier. Later in the cam-
paign, the Australian Cameliers were picked
out of their corps and formed into two Light
Horse regiments. When the writer and
many others threw in for the cost of the
memorial it was understood it would be to
the Light Horse only. Whence comes the
authority to add the name of the Cameliers,
largely British in composition? I yield to
none in respect for that corps and the
R.A.A.F.. but I fancy many will agree that
the memorial, which is a group of Lighr
Horsemen only, should be reserved for tin l
men who earned it. The Indian troops
who took part in the closing stages of the
Sinai-Palestine campaign have their own
separate memorial. Why not the composite
Cameliers and the R.A.A.F. ?
...
“S.T.S.”: After nearly 20 years of hous-
ing all its cars outside the city at Hackney,
Adelaide Tramways Trust saved hundreds
of miles daily by putting half of them to
bed at a “barn” in Victoria-square. The
iron shed in use i.s now to be given a per-
manent form. The old idea of a six-storey
building, to be rushed by lawyers for offices
close to the courts, finds no support
from them, and the £16.000 which Govern-
ment has agreed to lend the Trust will pro-
bably mean two storeys, with the present
tracks not disturbed.
“Rokko” : Members of a family in a Syd-
ney. suburb are kicking themselves for not
having paid a little more attention to the
request of an elderly aunt. The old lady,
living alone, became seriously ill, and these
particular relations felt it tlieir duty to re-
move her to their home, sending her few' pos-
sessions to a second-hand shop for sale. All
through her illness the old lady asked at
intervals for an ancient rocking-chair, but
the family took little notice, regarding her
interest in it as purely a sentimental one.
It was only when she became convalescent
that she was told that the old chair had been
•sold, whereupon she revealed that beneath
the padded seat all her worldly wealth was
hidden. The hoard had been growing for
nearly 20 years, and was stated by the owner
to be at least £2OO in notes. A rush to the.
second-hand dealer threw no light, on the
matter, except that the ancient rocker had
been taken away in a spring cart by a
country purchaser. No report of the find-
ing of unexpected wealth lias filtered into the
press, and the theory is that the buyer has
kept entirely silent 0 n the matter if he has
found the hoard. On the other hand, if he
FAMILY CONFIDENCES.
“But your father's always praising me!”
“Yes, but he only does that to annoy Mother.”
hasn’t thrown the old cushion away he’s
probably rocking himself contentedly on a
seat stuffed with banknotes.
“Sixenate” : Generally speaking, the Aus-
tralian moves about more than most, but the
country .still has its limpets. In a case
heard at Parramatta the other day, a man
of 60 told the Court that he had spent all
his life in the town, and had only been as
far as two miles out of it on one occasion—
when he went to Rookwood to attend a
funeral. And he had made that journey on
foot, since he was afraid of travelling in
a train.
“Medic”:- For sheer unscientific bunkum
commend me to Sir Arbutlinot Lane’s recent
dictum that “Don Bradman could never have
attained his present perfection if he had
lived in England’s sunless climate.” For
centuries northerners have looked down on
dwellers in hot countries as their physical
inferiors, and with good reason. In battle
and in all contests calling for bodily strength
and endurance the Nordics have consistently
put it across Southern Europeans. On the
very day that Lane’s pronouncement was
cabled to Australia a couple of Irishmen put
up world’s records at the Olympic Games in
two most arduous events —the. 440 yards
hurdles and the • shot-putting. And if there
is a more sunless land than Erin outside the
Polar regions I don’t know it. Australia’s
sun only gives Australian sportsmen an
advantage in one respect: it enables them to
play cricket, tennis, golf and the like while
the British and Irish are sheltering from the
rain.
* * *
“Escobar” : The little republic of Paraguay,
whither went New Australians 40 years ago
in search of pure Commu-
nism, is at war again, this
time with its neighbor Bolivia.
Paraguay has enjoyed the
blessings of peace for over GO
years, after having put up
one of the most desperate and
sustained scraps in all history
against overwhelming odds.
Under Francis Lopez as Pre-
sident (or dictator) it de-
clared war against Brazil,
Argentina and Uruguay simul-
taneously and actually in-
vaded two of them before they
were ready to hit back. The
allies, of course, wore down
Lopez, but it took them five
years before they finally exter-
minated him—at one stage he
is said to have carried dogged
resistance to the extent of
arming 4000 women. When
peace was signed the popula-
tion of Paraguay had fallen
from 800,000 to 250,000, with
a ratio of about 10 women to
one man in what was left.
These figures used to be
quoted by scientists as evi-
dence of how Nature, if left
to herself, will immediately
begin to redress a dispropor-
tion in sexes ; it was alleged,
on doubtful authority, that
there were ten times as many
males as females born for
years after- Paraguay put
down its rifle and started re-
stocking. The vital statistics
of South American republics
are largely a matter of guess-
work, but it does seem that
the balance was redressed
somehow.
“Nakli.” : H. G. Wells has come out in a new
'role as leader of the-English Liberal Fas-
cists. It is difficult, to imagine the author of
“Tono-Bungay” as a Mussolini. If his literary
career is any criterion a Wells regime would
bo the most muddled interval in British his-
tory. He began by being a simple Fabian
Socialist. Then he plumped for an intellectual
aristocracy. Then lie decided that, the world
could only be saved, by a spiritual regenera-
tion, so he invented a religion. Then he be-
came the advocate of a world State centred
at Geneva, but, that failing, he proposed an
open conspiracy 0 f all right-thinking people
in all countries for upsetting existing forms
of government and replacing them with oli-
garchies of thinkers. The difficulty with
Wells is that he wants to be \» revolution-
ary and at the same time remain respectable.
Revolutions are not made by such people.
“Eugene A.”: According to a Sydney
paper, no drink or “dope” of any kind is
given to a person abotit to be hanged in
N. S. Wales. If this is so, it seems an un-
kind departure from age-old precedent. The
highwayman booked for Tyburn tree had liis
stirrup-cup on the way; O. Henry, in the
last story lie ever wrote, depicted the gaoler
in Limbo Lane, Sing Sing, pressing a black
bottle on the man bound for the chair with
the comforting assurance “All has it that
needs a bracer.” Prohibition may have de-
prived the U.S. murderer of his final nobbier,
but in England, not so many years ago. a
hangman made the artless admission that
the majority of his victims were well stif-
fened up for the ordeal with Dutch courage.
On the other hand, there is no mention of
the final stimulant in “The Ballad of Read-
ing Gaol,” only of
....that sickening thirst
That sands one’s throat before
The hangman with the gardener’s gloves
Slips through the padded door
And binds one with three leathern thongs
That the throat may thirst no more.
Still, as Oscar Wilde’s murderer was allowed
two quarts of beer a day after sentence, it
seems unlikely that he would be denied the
pre-gallows bracer.
**' * *
“Farleigh”: The photograph of Bigjohn
Forrest and lengthy William Lyne wiring
into a jarrah-tree with a crosscut saw (B.
3/S/’32) was published in a Perth news-
paper, and a capital picture it made. The
pair looked like typical mates, and for that
SHE'D FOUND THAT OUT, TOO.
“Beatrice, I’m told that man you’re going out so much
with is a very loose character.”
“Yes, I’m afraid he is, Uncle. He’s nearly got away
from me twice already.”
matter they were excellent friends, with a
good deal in common, in the earlier days of
the first Federal Cabinet. But they were
fated to fall out bitterly; a few years later
neither of the two heavyweights would will-
ingly have come within such close range of
his former partner as a two-handed saw
necessitates. But the snap taken in the
jarrah country survives, and may go into
some “Picturesque Atlas’’ of the future.
SHEARING TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Federal Government will probably reduce
Commonwealth Parliamentary salaries (formerly
c 1000) to £6OO ; the pay of N.S.W. Assemblymen
( £875 two years ago) is likely to be cut by the
Stevens Ministry to £5OO or £550.”
Framers of laws, shovellers of words un-
counted.
'Tis ill for you those halcyon days have
ceased
When ever and anon your salaries mounted
And steadily your little whacks increased.
Eight pounds or so per week was reckoned
plenty
For Reps.’ and Senators’ initial pay :
’Twas little Billy Hughes that made it
twenty
In his own lordly way.
“Excelsior,” your motto voiced with vigor
In all the problems that your country met,
Was just as applicable to the figure,
It seems, that on your services you set.
When good the going, and the sun was
shining.
At making hay ’twas little time you lost ;
Now, same as chaps like us—no use repin-
ing—
You, too, must face the frost.
Lords of the lore that linos the leaves of
“Hansard,”
With wheat and wool down to their pre-
sent price,
Nor you nor anyone may leave unanswered
Calls for equality of sacrifice.
For logic cold or rhetoric hot with passion,
For gasconade or braggadocio
We cannot pay you in the old free fashion :
We haven’t got the dough.
Dealers in platform spells and catch-vote
magic,
Slogans and shibboleths adroitly dressed
To suit, all tastes, fall in! Nor deem it
tragic
You have to gulp your physic with the
rest.
WHERE NATURE HAS HER WAY.
“‘ln fashion,’ so this paper says, ‘all interest is above the waist this season.’”
“Yes, that’ll be due to longer skirts being worn.”
Forbear wry faces. Surely calm research’ll
Convince you that there’s little cause for
moans.
You’ll still be drawing more than Winston
Churchill
Pulls down —or .Tacky Jones.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Sixenate”: A curious instance of matri-
monial simple-mindedness was disclosed in
the Sydney Divorce Court last week. The
petitioner had a husband who, coining home
in a bad humor one night, smashed and
threw into the fire his dad’s portrait, and
proceeded to do the same with his wife’s
marriage certificate, assuring her that this
dissolved the marriage. The lady, almost
incredible as it may seem, accepted the
statement at its face value and “mar-
ried” another man; her belief that she was
entitled to do so was not disturbed until a
charge of bigamy was laid against her. See-
ing that the second alliance had proved satis-
factory. and that the man concerned was
anxious to regularise it, his Honor cut the
knot tIV; woman thought had been severed
years ago.
“Mells”: One of the first men to give the
late Tommy Walker a helping hand in West-
ralia was F. C. P>. Vosper. who would him-
self liave gone much
further than Tommy had
lie lived. Vosper started
with much the same
equipment, but he had a
■ keener intellect —he had
studied geology and min-
ing to some purpose—
and he was the better-
balanced speaker and
much more capable jour-
nalist of the pair. Also
he was a good 15 years
younger than Tommy,
and had won a goldfields
seat in the State Assem-
bly and made a consider-
able mark there before
Walker came on tie 1
scene. But just when
Yosper the iCornishmau
seemed to have the ball
at his feet, death inter-
vened. He was only 32,
NEARLY READY.
AUNTIE: “I suppose you'll soon be
thinking of marrying, Claribel?”
CLARIREL: “Yes; I’ve only to learn to cook, sew and wash—l know all the rest already.”
and his ability and forcefulness and hold
on the miners had already put lam m
a class of his own. Walker lived to a ripe
old age, but it took him a long time to make
the course that Yosper might have completed
in a few strides.
;Js
“ Jeamcs”: The most insatiable wolfers of
the kind of publicity that our press girls
ladle out in the society columns of the dailies
are middle-class visitors from England and
the TT.S.A. Starved of such attentions in
(heir own countries, they are thrilled to the
inarrow to see their parties described in
detail here. They would consider it well
worth while if they had to get every female
scribe in the city paralytic by way ot pay-
ment ; but in point of fact the only remun-
eration demanded is a cup of tea and a kind
word, since most of the lady journalists are
as avid for something to write about as
their entertainers are for advertisement. Ihe
phenomenon makes it easy to gauge the over-
seas status of visitors. The .K. ander-
bilts, for example, hardly got a line in the
Sydney social columns. Neither, for that
matter, do our social notabilities. I can
still remember the face of_ a gossip-hound
of my acquaintance who tried to get some-
thing out of the late Adrian Knox about an
entertainment that his wife had given at
their house. The poor girl looked as if she
had been struck by lightning.
“Cross Belts”: A correspondent who wrote
to a Sydney daily advocating the saluting or
tlio Cenotaph by
passers-by, as is the
rule in Loncl o n.
slipped when he
signed himself “ex-
J 1 rh Hussars
(Cherry - Pickers)
The Cherry-Pickers
are the Bth (Royal
Irish) Hussars;
they were so called
because they were
caught robbing an
orchard in the Pen-
insular war and
badly towelled up by
French cavalry.
They have another
title, “The Cross
Belts.” This is de-
rived from their sub-
sequent capture of
an entire French
cavalry regiment
which wore elaborate
cross belts. The
Royal Irish souven-
ired these and added
them to the single
belt they were wear-
ing, and they still
retain the unique
distinction.-, The lltli Hussars are known
as “The Cherubims,” a polite reference to
their beautiful crimson pantaloons, though
Thomas Atkins has his own version of the
nickname.
“Peterkin”: The ways of mnemonics are
sometimes startling. The mother of Eliza-
beth, who is six, told her she had been to see
“Joan of Arc.” “And do you know who
Joan was?” she asked. “I suppose, ’ replied
Elizabeth, “she was Noah’s little girl.”
“Ai'oon”: The would-be revivalists of the
Irish language in Ireland are complaining
that people obstinately refuse to talk it, des-
pite Government encouragement. It is the
same old difficulty which so often confronts
th’e translating into practice of platform
theories that make such an appeal to national
s-; ntiment. Beyond doubt a real renais-
sauce of Erse would be of considerable inter-
est to scholars as well as a source of satis-
faction to patriots, and there is no reason
to suppose that any objection would be
raised outside of Ireland. _ But only the
people themselves, can effect it. Not the ora-
tors who could always raise a cheer by its
advocacy, some of whom, as Lynn Doyle’s
Irish schoolmaster unkindly remarked,
“didn’t know enough of what they insisted
was their native tongue to keep them from
dying of thirst if the language of the garri-
son, as they call it, wasn’t understood by
every barman in the four Provinces.”
“D,J.”: “M.G.S.” employs a muddled
brand of reasoning (B. 20/7/’32) regarding
my view that old men are less to blame for
wars than young ones. “Wars,” he says,
“are caused by ideas, and ideas are propa-
gated by education, and education is in the
hands of the old.” But it isn’t. According
to L. B. Pekin, the average age of the
masters at an average English public
school is 36 —the age of the German Crown
Prince when the World War ended. The
average age of the teachers' in our State
schools is probably much less. The average
age of the directors of one of Australia’s
most successful institutions is 70. I said
that if I ivere a dictator, and wanted to
keep my country out of a war, I would send
for someone like Theodore Fink. And
“M.GiS.” objects that Mr. Fink “didn’t pro-
duce any ideas that might have prevented
war in i. 914 in any of the organs of public
BRINGING HIM UP WELL.
“Have you got a good daddy?”
“Oh, my daddy is very good—he always docs what. I tell him.”
opinion, which he owns.” ITe didn’t then,
and doesn’t now, own any organs of public
opinion, though he is a director of some.
A sense of proportion is one of the qualities
required of a newspaper director, which is
why you never find one trying to prevent
European wars from Melbourne or Sydney.
“T.Y.1.”: Talking of various oddities in-
flicted on the services, how about puttees?
Not one man in four can roll them properly,
even if the Lord has given him a decent pair
of legs to roll them on. They were originally
invented bv the natives of India, to be worn
without boots, in sandy country, as a pro-
tection against snakes, thorns, grass-seeds or
what-have-you, and were adopted about the
time Kitchener played around the Sudan.
They were the curse of the British Army
during the war 1914-18 —in hot weather they
constrict the leg muscles and cramp a man,
and in wet weather they fall off and trip him
up, not to mention the time wasted rolling
them.
* * * *
“Clarence Cafetaria”: Melbourne City
Council is about to renew its spasmodic
anti-noise campaign. The noises the city
fathers do not like are made by loud speak-
ers, spruikers, vendors of goods, itinerant
musicians and beggars singing for coppers.
There is a spruiker at a Bourke-street
cinema who has a keener sense of humor
than the average city father, and his re-
marks are more worth listening to. Home-
less wanderers in the streets sometimes catch
the strains of Kreisler’s violin straying from
a wireless set. The itinerant musicians and
the boys singing for coppers sometimes make
weary mothers chasing bargains with which
to balance the. family budget dream of
princely mansions and fields of asphodel.
Apparently the civic dads prefer the noises
of electric trams, solid-tyred lorries, motor-
horns, building operations and other utili-
tarian harmonies.
ij * * :S:
“Centurion” : There is no better school for
cultivating a memory for faces (B. 27/7/’32)
than army service, regular or otherwise.
British training manuals lay down that the
first essential for a newly-joined subaltern
is to get to know his men by sight. In addi-
tion he is expected to acquire a knowledge
of their histories as revealed in their attes-
tation papers and crime sheets. As he goes
up in rank his knowledge in these directions
is supposed to extend until as _ Adjutant,
Second in Command or C.O. he is familiar
with the personality of the whole regiment.
It sounds an impossible job to the layman,
but in the regulars, at least, it is—or was
before the days of short service—the rule
rather than the exception. The same faculty
was, of course, expected from n.c.o.’s. The
most infallible man in the regiment in
writer’s experience -was the 8.5. M., almost
invariably a man who had spent most of
his life in it.
* $ * *
“Lord Luvus”: A peevish attack on the
modern schoolboy was made at a science con-
gress in London by C. 11. Blakiston. head-
master of Lancing College. According to
him the modern youth is lacking in initia-
tive and the spirit of. adventure; he is tame,
untruthful and given to peacockry; he does
not need flogging, not because he is more
amenable to discipline, but because he is
afraid of physical pain, and so forth. Clear
thinking is not a peculiarity of pedagogues
who spend their time packing the minds of
helpless boys with orthodox ideas, but pre-
cisely the same charges were brought against
British youth just before the outbreak of the
Croat War. Anyhow, who makes the modern
boy what he is except his schoolmasters? A
manufacturer shouldn’t complain to the
world that his goods are below standard and
badly adulterated. The boot is on the other
foot, in my opinion. The intelligent modern
schoolboy is coming in contact with ideas
outside the classroom, and is beginning to
criticise the standards of values of his teach-
ers. In times of stress like these people tend
to become timid and reactionary, and this
is especially so in the ease of schoolmasters,
who are timid and reactionary by nature.
Boys tend to imitate their masters, and will
reverence the things their masters rever-
ence. Masters generally have a conventional
reverence for art, but in practice they have
a profound contempt for it. One of Mel-
bourne’s leading musicians recently per-
formed a short work of Beethoven at a school
concert, and the boys broke into it with their
school song, without eliciting any sign of
disapproval from the headmaster, who was
present.
“D.”: It is fashionable to sneer at the
laws of evidence. They are responsible for
the machine-gun rattle of “Objec'! Objec’ !"
and the ensuing arguments which play such
a big part in stringing out cases. But after
two hours spent recently at the Tin-hare
Commission I began to see why they were
framed. A Royal Commission, like a Coro-
ner’s inquest, takes evidence according to
what the pugs call “bung rules.” In this
case a good deal of the evidence has
been of the hearsay order; as when a
witness said that a colleague had told him
that he had interviewed various M’s.L.(\
with malign intent. It is true that the col-
league came along subsequently and denied
it, but a vague stigma still attaches to the
M’s.L.C., who will get no chance to repudiate
the yarn. Of course, if half the people who
have been accused directly, or indirectly dur-
ing the past few weeks of indictable offences,
such as taking and offering bribes and en-
deavoring to extort money by threats, were
to insist on pushing in and giving their side
of the case the Commission would never
come to an end. But what comfort is that
to them?
“Deuceaee”: A N.S.W. grazier, who had
enriched the bookmakers to the extent of
£12,000-odd in 1928-29, when making up his
income-tax return for that year hit on the
bright idea of adding “and punter” to his
pastoral vocation and claiming the right to
deduct these losses from his net assessable
income. The taxation authorities demurred,
and the case went to the High Court, where
Justice Evatt gave his decision against the
squatter-cam-oddstaker on the ground that
his betting was not “a business” but merely
the indulgence in a habit, and a bad one at
that. His Honor’s remarks left the impres-
sion that if the grazier-punter had owned
horses, or trained them, or. established himself
in an office for his campaign against the ring,
or betted upon something partaking of the
A ROSE BY ANOTHER NAME.
“Another beggar, I suppose!”
“No, missus. Not a beggar. Just a district
visitor."
nature of a system, or kept regular accounts,
there might 'have been some point in Ins
contention, but as he had done none of these
things he couldn’t be considered to have made
betting a trade within the meaning of the
Act. It sounds logical, but one can’t, help
the reflection that the luckless pastoralis:
might have done all the things that would
have constituted him, in the Judge’s eyes, a
professional punter and come off just as
badly or even worse. Still, it may be some
consolation to the next whole-time backer 01
horses who is doing his dash to know that
he may be saving a bit on his income tax.
'HIE LAY OF THE HIKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some love to dart about the sky,
And some to cleave the water;
And some a-wheel o’er highways hie
With someone else’s daughter.
For .these there’s cost in mind to bear,
As well as taste and liking.
But ev’ryone a day can spare
To don the duds and find the fare
For hiking—hiking—hiking.
We’re bound for somewhere up the line
Where wealth of banks and braes is,
Like those that grew the “gowans fine,”
Melodious Burns’s daisies.
We know not where we’ll disembark
Or wliitherwards be striking,
But in that pleasant vagueness, mark,
There lies the charm, the lure, the lark
Of hiking—mystery-hiking.
We shall not hear the parson’s saw,
In tabernacles tethered,
But sermons from the rocks we’ll draw
And hymns from songsters feathered.
Right soon we’ll note the signs of spring
In flower-clusters spiking.
All week-day cares away you fling
And feel as happy as a king
Wheii hiking—hiking—hiking.
You’ll need, of course, one girl—or more—
To keep your joy-cup brimmin’.
And learn, along with woodland lore.
More of the ways of women.
What time her fairy feet you g:r . -
Across the ditch and diking.
Or tramp beside her, stride for stride.
My oath! there’s many a love-knot tied
At hiking—mystery-hiking.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW. V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin L ane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
. world.
_ __ . . . Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
WHEN PROVIDING FOR YOUR DEPENDANTS
be sure you are in a sound, bonus-paying office.
Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance
Co., Ltd.,
Most Solidly Progressive of the Younger Offices
Has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin” 30/3/’32.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. MOONEY, Managing Director.
P. J. RYAN, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, Sr. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith, Resident Sec.
District Offices and Agenci es Throughout the States.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Thousands of ''readers will welcome the
announcement that Norman Lindsay, the
world’s greatest black-and-white artist, has
rejoined the staff of The Bulletin, and his
cartoons and other drawings will be'regular
features of the paper from next week on-
wards.
Had a 104th birthday in S.A., John Van-
stone, who claims to remember clearly Vic-
toria’s coronation. He has been in Australia
since 1847, always farming in the Central
State, except for shots at gold in Bendigo
and Gympie.
Mary Mackenzie, who died at Willoughby
(N.S.W.) last week, aged 101. was the
daughter of Colonel "Mackenzie, who came
to Australia in command of the 4tli Regi-
ment just 100 years ago, after having had
his first experience of soldiering with Sir
John Moore at Corunna. The colonel re-
signed after some years’ service to take up
pastoral pursuits; his daughter was one of
the pioneer women of the Monaro. One of
her nephews was Brig.-Gen. Granville Ryrie.
the retiring High Commissioner.
George_ Young, of New Farm, Brisbane,
who is in his 103rd year, claims to be
Queensland’s oldest inhabitant, He came t<>
Australia from England in the ’eighties, and
was for years a Government mail carrier
in the west before he took up dairying.
After forty years at this game he retired
only a few years ago.
James Menzies, the father of Vic.’s Attor-
ney-General, who used to represent Lowan
in Vic. Assembly until Marcus Wettenhall
collared the seat, is still going strong. He
was elected last week chairman of Vic. Coun-
cil _of Agricultural Education, the body
which controls Dookie and Longerenong
agricultural colleges.
J. C. L. Fitzpatrick, who died last week, was
bom at Moama (N.S.W.) in 1865. Beginning
as a comp, he first acquired a Richmond
paper and then the Molong “Argus,” which
be turned into a very live publication. But
his heart was in politics—politics and con-
genial social intercourse. For 35 years,
with one or two breaks, the mercurial little
man with his flash clothes, made-up tie and
eternal buttonhole relieved the drab tedium
of the Assembly with his racy jokes. He
was nominally an enemy of Rome, and got
a. good deal of Orange support in his elec-
tions; but he was “Fitz” to priests as well
J. C. L. FITZPATRICK, as Low saw him
16 years ago , when he was N.S.W.
Assistant-Treasurer; and he looked just
like that till the end.
as parsons, for there was no malice in him.
He had two Ministerial jobs as a National-
ist (Assistant-Treasurer in 1916 and Mines
Minister in 1922), but he did his best work
when Conservatism in N. S. Wales was spelt
Freetrade.
Yet another Bulletin serial is to be put
between book covers. G. M. Turnbull’s
“Alien Corn,” which appeared in these pages
last year, is to be published in October by
Stanley Paul of London. John Farqua-
liarson, the London literary agent who has
handled so much Australian work, brought
off the deal. The only alteration will be in
the title, which, it seems, has been pre-
empted by another fictionist.
D. J. McClelland, the new member of
Vic. Electricity Commission, is a con-
sulting engineer and worked with the late
John Monash on some of the most import-
ant extensions of tlie Yallourn brown coal
exploitation. He was responsible for the
Rubicon hydro-electric scheme, aimed at in-
suring the supply of current in the event of
strikes on the major enterprise. He also
carried out the Shannon scheme for the
Speck Government and the Clarence River
project for the N.S.W. Government. He is a
product of Ballarat and Ormond Colleges
and distinguished himself at Melb. Uni-
versity. The new job is the nearest thing
•to disinterested public service, bar charitable
endowments. It carries a salary of £250
p.a., less financial-emergency deduction.
T. R. CAMPBELL,
who represents quid
Boots and dinkum Aus-
tralian whisky.
T. R. Campbell
came from Scot-
land 30 years ago
to sell the good
whisky he had
heard about ever
since he was an
infant, and has
stayed here to
make it too. His
Scottish-Australian
interests are now
entirely blended:
he is general man-
ager in Australia
for John Dewar
and Son, Ltd., vice-
chairman of the
Distilleries Distri-
buting Co., Ltd.,
and managing direc-
tor of the United
Distilleries P t y.,
Ltd. —this last an
amalgamation of
the leading Austra-
lian distilleries.
J. L. Sands,
whose passing in
Brisbane is record-
ed. came as a baby
in arms to the
Mo reton Bay
settlement in 1849.
His parents and
grandparents were
members of the
historic band of
British colonists
who arrived in
Australia under the
scheme formulated by Dr. Dnnmore Dang.
In due course the infant immigrant grew up
to be one of Brisbane’s leading building con-
tractors. Retiring from private work some
20 years ago, he became inspector of railway
buildings to the Queensland Government. He
was all his life a keen yachtsman.
You might say that John Ilepher, who
died last week, was present at the birth of
the Parliamentary Labor party in N. S.
Wales. Following the seamen’s' strike in
1800 the Labor Electoral League was formed
in Sydney, and as soon as the platform had
been built a propaganda committee was
formed. There can't be many left of those
pioneer spruikers; J. C. Watson, then a
comp, on the “Star” (later —many years
later —the “Sun”) is one, and Frank Cotton
another. Ilepher was among them ; he was
a tailor by trade. Most of his propaganding
was done in Redfern, where he helped
McGowen and W. 11. Sharp into the Assem-
bly. Later (1890) George Reid gave him,
Nicky Buzacott (still living), Estell and
.Tames Wilson seats in the Leg. Council :
and he was carried into the Chamber to vote
for the Mortgage Taxation Bill on the last
day of Lang’s hectic reign.
Sir Jehangir Hormasji Kothari, who cast
up in Sydney the other day, is an unusual
Indian personality. Born in Karachi, in
the north-west section of the Bombay Presi-
dency, lie built up an immense fortune as
a mill-owner and financier. In addition to
huge contributions to Imperial funds during
the war, he has made many gifts to his
native city. His travels about the world
have literally taken him from China to
Peru, with interludes in the Arctic regions
and the Solomons. If he can spare the
time, the old gentleman intends to stay in
Australia long enough to watch the cricket
of Pataudi and Duleepsinhji, the latter’s
grandfather having been a friend of his
youth. He holds a decoration rarely heard
of in Australia, the Kaisar-i-Hind medal,
first-class.
John Newell, dead at Herberton at 83,
was one of the outstanding personalities of
the North Queensland mining world. He
came from Ireland 00 years ago, and after
some experiences in the Stanthorpe and the
Palmer helped to pioneer the Hodgkinson.
With the late William .Tack he discovered
the Great Northern tinmine, one of the rich-
est in the world, round which Herberton grew
up. With Jack lie entered into a trading-
partnership and the firni of Jack and Newell
still bulks big in N.Q. In the mid-eighties
Newell sat in the State Parliament for two
terms. He had much to do after his min-
ing days with the development of the rich
tableland country to which Cairns is the
gateway.
Sixty-one years ago a young Scotsman
named Stewart Dawson opened a little
watchmakers’ and jewellers’ shop at Diver-
pool. He had no capital and no education
to speak of, but he came from Aberdeen, and
he had tremendous energy, and presently,
when a few Maoriland weekly papers came
into his hands, he decided to see whether
some cheeky advertising would pull business
his way. The little Liverpool shop looked
like a great factory from Auckland and
Dunedin; and inquiries were made to see
whether branches wouldn’t do still better
than a mail trade. A place was opened in
Sydney, followed by others in Melbourne and
elsewhere; but for a time country orders
were still chiefly relied upon—-the first
branch in Melbourne consisted of a couple
of small offices up a steep flight of stairs
in Collins-street West. Mr. Dawson himself
began to spend much of his time in Aus-
tralia, and, although meantime the business
had been extended to London, he decided
to himself make liis home ‘in Sydney.
Among his other enterprises there he estab-
lished the Ambassadors, of which he made a
hobby for some years. Seeing the crash in
values coming he sold his Sydney property
(portion of the Strand) for £770,000 and
the Swanston-street (Melbourne) block for
£250,000, and kept the old sign up in rented
premises. He died at the week-end, aged 82.
Jobs in the State Tourist “Burrow” have
been found by Queensland’s Foggy Smith
Government for Mick Kirwan, Brisbane’s
M.L.A. for 20 years, and Jack Fihelly.
holder of Ministerial office under Ryan and
Theodore, and sometimes London Agent.
Fihelly, who did a lot of journalistic work
before he entered politics, will look after
the preparation of printed dope, while Mick
will do the soapbox work up and down the
country. Both positions were filled until
recently by one man, J. V. MacDonald, now
a Senator. Two other Labor worthies pro-
vided for are Brassington, whose seat, Ba-
lonne, was wiped out in the redistribution,
and Jones, McCormack’s Minister of Mines.
Brassington becomes a factory inspector and
Jones goes into the Department of Labor and
Industry.
Broken Hill is the only N.S.W. town The
Bulletin knows which has had a “city
manager”; for years past its town clerk,
J. N. Jonas, has had general charge of all
operations inside of the Town Hall and out
of it. Jonas has a convincing way with
him, and has carried on through the reigns
of many “whole-time” Labor Mayors. But
money is scarce, so the town clerk’s screw
has been cut down, and, as a sort of quo pro
less quids, the work and title of city man-
ager have been taken from him.
Eric Sydney Spooner, Honorary Minister
assisting the Treasurer in the Stevens Min-
istry, was born in the working-class suburb
of Redfern, like his leader. He was grounded
at an Anglican parochial school and
at 14 started work as an office boy. Other
resemblances between the Treasurer and his
offsider are a tendency to avoirdupois and
a flair for figures. Spooner matriculated at
Sydney Uni. at 21, and eventually by evening
study earned the Diploma for Economics and
Commerce. In 1918 he ran third in the
Commonwealth Institute of Accountants'
exam., and three years later secured second
place in the Australasian Corporation of
E. S. SPOONER, ML A. for Ryde (N.S.W.),
Premier Stevens’s lieutenant at the
Treasury.
Public Accountants’ class-list. Twelve years
ago he began practice as an accountant at
Orange (N.S.W.), and in 1922 moved to Syd-
ney and helped to found the firm of
Hungerford and Spooner. Last June he be-
came U.A.P. member for Ryde.
Ernest Le Gay Brereton, dead at 64, was
a well-known figure at Sydney Uni., where
he had been a lecturer in chemistry for the
last 24 years—before that he was a mining
engin r or. He was an elder brother of the
Professor of English ; their father was John
Le Gay Brereton, M.D., who came from
Bradford (Yorkshire) to Maoquarie-street
in the ’sixties,
Mrs. Mary Jane Gibb, mother of one old-
established Bulletin contributor, Louis
HOWARD W. LLOYD,
chairman of directors
of the Bank of Adelaide.
Esson, and aunt of
two others, Esther
and Betty Pater-
son, died in Vic-
toria a few days
ago. Esson was
her son by a first
marriage; her sec-
ond husband,
Esson’s stepfather,
was James Gibb,
an early member of
the House of Re-
presentatives. Out
of that relation-
ship sprang a hor-
rible accident.
Esson was at the
time writing much
topical verse, a
good deal of it
with a sting in it.
One Monday morn-
ing there arrived a
set with* even mole
sting than usual.
It was all right,
except that a sub-
editor who didn’t
know anything of
the writer’s family
history, thought
Gibb’s name ought
to be in a very
blastiferous line
instead of the
M.H.R. actually
mentioned. So his
pencil made the
change, and there
was a tempest in
the household until
the wire got to work and Louis was trium-
phantly exonerated.
The death of Dr. A. V. M. Anderson in
Melbourne last week caused a twinge of
regret in many homes where the struggle
for existence has been keen. For 40 years
(1888 to 1928) he was associated with the
Alfred Hospital, first as resident and then
as honorary physician and surgeon. As
honorary doc. to outpatients he was revered
for his kindness und skill. To another large
class of citizens he was known as chief medi-
cal officer in Vic. for the A.M.P. Society. For
a while he was president of Vic. branch of
the B.M.A.
Captain J. A. Edgell, who has just been
appointed Hydrographer of the Royal Navy
in succession to Vice-Admiral Henry Doug-
las, will be remembered in Australia. He
commanded H.M.S. Moresby when surveying
the waters of the Great Barrier Reef.
Mrs Margaret Manning, of Coburg, Vic.,
wlio died a few weeks ago, left an estate
of £12,442, the bulk of which goes to Catho-
lic institutions. But she spared a thought
for hard-up State Treasurers: her will set
forth that £2O was to be paid to consoli-
dated revenue in S. Aus. as well as Vic.
Just been admitted to honorary member-
ship of the American Ceramic Society, Dr.
Joseph Mellor, who some 30 years ago was
clicker in a boot factory at Dunedin (M.L.).
The doctor is now lion. sec. and principal
of the Pottery Department of the North
Staffordshire Technical College, hon. sec. of
the English Ceramic Society, and author of
one of the most comprehensive works on
chemistry in existence —it runs into 13 vol-
umes. He began his upward way by attend-
ing technical-school and Uni. classes in
Dunedin.
Norfolk Island has lost a valued resident
in Joseph Johnson Dickens, formerly well-
known in Sydney business circles; for over
40 years he was with the N.Z. Loan and
Mercantile Co. there, and when he retired
from the manager’s chair he made his home
in the island. The manner of his death was
tragic. After leaving a horse to be shod
at the blacksmith’s he tripped on the edge
of one of the open welfe—sunk all through
the bush by the convicts over 100 years
ago—fell in," and was drowned. One of his
last benevolences was a donation of £lOO ro
the local hospital.
Brazil, considering its size and population,
hasn’t furnished many world celebrities, but
Alberto Santos-Dumont, gone aloft at 59, was
quite as famous in the early days of aviation
as Ivingsford Smith or Lindbergh to-day. He
specialised first in navigable balloons, and
won a £lO,OOO prize in Paris ; when he turned
to airships he was the first man to make a
genuine flight in Europe (Orville Wright
held that record in America) and from his
early experiments the modern ’plane has
gradually developed. His father was a Sao
Paulo coffee-planter.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
Dividends To
June, Profits. (10 p.e.) Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 480,261 349,920 130,341 2,920,227
1926.. 485,069 350,000 135,069 3,055,296
Bank of Victoria absorbed.
Reserves taken over, £850,000 .. 3,905,296
Written Off.
1927.. 556,705 401,817 50,000 4,010,184
1928.. 653,243 473,212 50,000 4,140,215
1929.. 655,194 473,901 50,000 4,271,508
1930.. 637,619 473,901 50,000 4,385,226
(84 p.c.)
1931.. 441,816 402,816 4,424,226
(5A p.c.)
1932.. 253,866 260,646 4,417,446
Earnings are derived mainly from the differ-
ence between advance and deposit rates, the
margin between buying and selling prices in
the exchange market, and from interest on
public and other securities. During the 12
month's covered by the latest accounts there
was a cut of 1 p.c., more in some cases, in
charges made for overdrafts, reducing the
average to about 6 p.c. Prices paid for de-
posits were reduced from 41 p.c. to 24 p.c.
for three months’ and from 5 [ p.c. to 4 pi.c. for
14 months’ currencies. But the cuts applied
only to new contracts; and since a reduc-
lion of f. 1,247,942 in advances was accom-
panied by a growth of £452,320 in deposits,
mainly interest-bearing, earnings suffered.
Further reductions in both advance and de-
posit rates can be expected as the balance
of the old deposits mature. Other factors
responsible for the abrupt contraction of
£187,950 in the year’s declared net: earnings
were a lighter volume of exchange business,
a cut of 224 p.c. in returns from Consols
and of 33J pic. from Treasury bills, inelastic
overhead and the precarious condition of
many in the primary industries, which makes
necessary substantial provision for contin-
gencies. Incidentally, the business is yield-
ing a better return to the Government than
to the shareholders who own it, the year’s
fax bill having exceeded the div., the chair-
man says.
The £253.866 of profit claimed' was no
more than 2.8 p.c. on total funds (capital
and reserves combined), or 5.3 p.c. on the
£4.739,013 of capital alone, as against 9.3,
13.7, 13.8, 13.8, 13.8. 13.8 and 13.7 p.c. back
to 1925. The div. stepped down from the
rate of 10 p.c. p.a. for the Dec. half of
1930 to S p.c., 6 p.c. and then 5 p.c. p.a. for
the six months to .June 30, making 51 p.c. for
the year. Only once (in 1893) has the
C.B.S.’s yearly distribution dropped to 5 p.c.
since 1848. On capital as it now stands, a
5 p.c. div. would call for only 2.8 p.e. on
total funds, and better than that might be
expected when conditions become more settled
and the demand for farther advances on
sound securities strengthens.
Balance-sheet figures disclose a very solid
financial structure, as they always have
done•
iqoq 19R1 10Q9
Notes .. .. £J 4,130 £13,867 £13,81*5
Bills . . . . 2,104,183 971,105 1,158,933
Deposits . . 54,420,876 44,014,106 44,466,426
Assets.
Liquids . . £24,319,884 £17,142,178 £18,952,981
Advances . . 40,173,312 35.890,979 34,643,037
Premises, etc.. . 1,343,464 1,318,720 1,318,090
The outstanding features there are the con-
traction in advances and growth in deposits
already referred to. According to the last
quarterly averages 65.2 p.c. of the deposits
were interest-bearing as against 54.3 p.c.
three years ago. Some of these deposits may
belong to overseas exporters, but the greater
part of the increase represents capita] sav-
ings that would have normally remained in
or have gone into industry. llow the money
that became available, has been employed the
following comparison of liquids shows: —
193)0. 1931. ' 1932.
Coin, bullion,
Australian notes,
etc £8,205,825 £7,829,237 £5,899,452
Money at call . . 1,335,000 700,000 1,035,000
British Treasury
Bills . . .. - - 160,000
C o in in o n w e alth
Treasury Bills. . - 1,550,000 4,700,000
Public and other
securities . . 6,106,620 5,019,119 4,988,833
Bills receivable
London . . . . 3,062,926 1,774,309 1,869,125
Due from other
banks . . .. 410,891 269,513 300,571
Thus, to help the Governments finance their
deficits, an extra £3,150,000 was invested in
short-dated Commonwealth Treasury bills
last year, raising the co.’s total holding to
£4.700,000 at June 30. At that date the
co. held £4l 10s. of every £lOO of the public’s
money liquid, as against £3B 2s. a year
earlier, and for every £1 of its own funds
it was holding £4 19s. lOd. belonging to
depositors and others.
The scrip, paid to £l2 10s., is fairly
steady around £l5 10s. on the market. The
return at £l5 10s. is 4 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis, or 5.2 p.c. <>n a 7 p.c. div. basis. The
visible backing is £24 3s. in net tangibles.
New Zealand Breweries, Ltd.
To Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.!
£ £ £ £
1924*. 85,641 10 p.c. = 37,500 48,141 466,294
1925.. 103,220 10 „ „ 50,000 53,220 413,074
1926.. 109,541 10 „ „ 50,000 59,541 353,533
1927.. 97,372 10 „ „ 50,000 47,372 306,161
1928.. 121,332 10 „ ~ 50,000 71,332 234,829
Hidden reserves disclosed, £125,000.. 109,829
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 . . 359,829
1929.. 128,848 15 p.c. = 75,000 53,848 305,981
1930.. 123,038 15 „ „ 93,750 29,288 276,093
Approximate profit on conversion of Re-
debentures, £342,314; goodwill serves.
(£375,000) extinguished .. .. 98,307
1931.. 165,878 124 p.c. = 136,533 29,345 127,652"
1932.. 86,739 8 „ „ 87,382 127,009
-Nine months. (Goodwill ( £500,000 to commence)
not treated as an asset.
This Maoriland brewery combine pays
excise on about three-fourths of the beer
consumed in the Shivery Isles. It amalga-
mated James Speight and Co., Hancock and
Co., .T. Staples, the Lion and six other lead-
ing breweries in 1023. paying £500.000
(shares) for goodwill and £1,000,000 (cash)
for net tangibles, the cash being put up by
the public in 10 p.c. debentures. An aver-
age of over 20 p.c. on capital, after paying
debenture interest, was shown during the
first years: then £125,000 of reserves was
dragged from hiding, that amount was writ-
ten oft 1 goodwill, arid £250,000 of accumulated'
earnings was capitalised (one for twoK The
div. was increased from 10 p.c. to 15 p.c.,
though, judged by the beer-duty paid, suits
had weakened a trifle. Gradually £250,000
of the expensive debentures were repur-
chased. and the share market rapidly pushed
the price of the scrip to a premium of more
than 300 p.c. Use was made of this situa-
tion to convert all but £05,371 of the out-
standing debentures into shares, one new
share being issued for each £2 of debenture
stock. Capital profit on the conversion
enabled goodwill (not treated as an asset
herein) to be wiped out of the sheet alto-
gether.
The manoeuvre brought about a saving of
£75.000 p.a. in debenture interest; but dur-
ing the twelvemonth to March, 1931, the
slump affected output, and net profit
(£165,878) improved only £42.840. With
more capital to feed the div. was reduced to
121 p.c. During the year to March 31 last
excise was bumped up (temporarily) from
Is. to Is. 6d. a gallon; this extra burden
could not all be passed on to the consumer,
and, in addition, sales dried up further. Net
profit (£555.061, before paying excise'!
slipped £36,138; beer duty (£468,322) was
£43 001 heavier: thus the final figure
(£86,739) was almost halved. The 8 p.c.
handed to shareholders called for £643 more
than was disclosed.
Balance-sheet figures, though not very in-
formative, disclose comfortable finances :
1928. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. £500,000 £1,092,271 £1,092,271
Debentures . . 1,000,000 65,371 64,351
Sundry creditors*. 258,469 218,732 223,978
Freeholds, etc. . . 550,000 525,188 512,688
Plant .. .. 170,699 118,552 103,137
Investments .. 425,646 569,506 589,378
Stocks .. . . 167,205 156,333 160.602
Debtors .. . . 180,925 152,495 129,741
Cash . . . . 54,165 50,219 55,755
’lncluding “reserves for taxation, etc.”
Hotels, etc., may be included with land and
buildings (£512,688, down £12,500 last year)
or with investments (£589,378. up £19,872) ;
no hint is given either way, though the size
of the realty item in comparison with plant
(£103,137, down £15,415) suggests that the
former represents more than brewery free-
holds. Since the beginning £181,334 more
has been written off than has been spent on
fixed assets. And during that time the sur-
plus (now £711,498) of liquids, including
investments, over the floating debt( £223,978.
including “reserves for taxation, etc.,” from
which the £125,000 was brought to light in
1929) has improved £439,905.
The outlook for the current term does
not encourage hopes for better profits.
Interest returns have been affected by finan-
cial emergency legislation, the public’s pur-
chasing power continues to drop, and trade
generally is dull. Also, taxation is a heavier
burden than ever. On the other hand the
co.’s own affairs are in good trim, so that
when trade does brighten, shareholders
should benefit.
The scrip is at 255. 6d. in Wellington.
That is the price former debenture-holders
would receive for each 40s. worth of deben-
tures originally subscribed; and their net
return is now 4 p.c., as against 10 p.c. before
conversion. To purchasers at the current
price the return is 6.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis, and the visible backing 225. 4d. in
net tangibles.
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertilisers (S.A.)
To Re-
June, Prpfit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 22,425 6 p.c. = 20,414 2,211 28,794
1923. . 15,364 Nil 15,364 44,158
1924.. 31,061 6 p.c. = 20,414 10,847 55,005
1925.. 37,376 8 „ „ 26,952 10,424 65,429
1926.. 37,419 8 „ „ 26,952 10,468 75,897
1927.. 37,480 8 „ „ 26,952 10,528 86,425
1928.. 28,286 8 „ „ 26,952 1,334 87,759
1929.. 24,259 7 „ „ 23,583 676 88.435
1930.. 15,831 4 „ „ 13,476 2,355 90,790
1931.. 13,817 4 „ „ 13,476 341 91,131
1932.. 14,130 4 „ „ 13,476 654 91,785
Though fewer acres were planted with
wheat, good rains on the seedbeds provided
plenty of sap, and the average yield in S.
Atis. was 11.4 bushels an acre as against
8.4 and 6.4 bushels for the two preceding.
seasons. But the export price, which had
been ss. and better, averaged only 2s. sfd.
for 1030-31; last season’s figure was a little
over 35., or lower than the average for the
closing decade of last century. „ Still, the
bonus (41 d. per bushel),, financial emergency
legislation and the assistance growers got
from their own organisations helped.
So, during the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, this co. (it operates works
at Wallaroo and Birkenhead) sold a trifle
more super, than in the previous year, which
means about two-thirds of pre-slump sales.
Still, gross earnings (£27,713) fell away a
further £1282, making the slip £24,271 over
last four years. Exes. (£13,583, including
£2OOO for taxation) were pulled back £1595,
leaving the net figure at 4.2 p.c. on capital
as against 4.1, 4.7, 7.2, 8.2 and 11.1 p.c.
back to 1927. So the 4 p.c. div. was re-
peated, making the average 5.7 p.c. over the
last decade.
The co. is well ribbed financially:—
1925. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £336,900 £336,900 £336,900 £336,900
Liabilities . . 40,016 26,550 18,996 24,323
Freeholds, plant,
etc. .. 215,649 265,669 260,668 247,034
Stocks .. 75,642 133,493 132,142 121,285
Debtors .. 34,824 20,633 17,253 23,669
Cash, etc. .. 143,182 47,921 50,440 76,496
Thus, when the books last closed, the amount
coming to creditors was more than three
times covered by cash and Consols (together up
£26,056 during the year) alone. Stocks are
being worked down and debtors’ balances, a
troublesome item these days, are moderate.
Much of course depends upon the efficiency
of the plant and the adequacy or otherwise
of the allowance for depreciation. The
Diesel-driven generating equipment installed
in 1928 has helped to keep operating costs
down, and- last year £13,634 more was writ-
ten off than was spent on fixed assets. _
The immediate outlook for wheat is for
another heavy crop, planted at less cost than
its immediate predecessor, while the position
in the Northern Hemisphere at the moment
raises hopes that prices may strengthen a
trifle; thus prospects of a better demand
for super, are encouraging. The fertiliser
industry, however, can take care of a much
bigger demand than has thus far existed, and
the trend of super, prices is downwards.
Hence the market prices W allaroo-Mt.
Lyell’s pound shares at 17s. Od. At that
figure the return is 4.5 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div.
basis. The cover is 255. sd. in net tan-
gibles, mainly plant, worth what it can earn.
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.
To He- Rc-
June, Profits. Dividends. servos. serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 14,564 12 p.c. = 10,800 3764 72.486
1921.. 14,352 12 „ „ 10.800 3552 76,05 S
1922.. 14,921 12 „ „ 12,100 2821 78,859
1923.. 18,306 13 „ „ 15,600 2706 81,565
1924.. 21,951 14 „ „ 16,800 5151 86,716
1925.. 24.388 14 „ „ 18,900 5488 92,204
1926.. 24,615 14 „,, 19.600 5015 97,219
1927.. 22,472 14 „ „ 19,600 2872 100,091
1928.. 26,693 14 „ „ 19,600 7093 107,184
1929.. 25,175 14 ~ „ 19,600 5575 112,759
1930.. 22,447 14 „ ~ 19,600 2847 115,606
Profit sale freehold, £13,440 . . 129,046
1931.. 16,099 9 p.c. = 12,600 3499 132,545
1932.. 8,552 6 „ „ 8,400 152 132,697
There is £140,000 of capital to feed, and it
had the assistance of £132,607 of reserves at
June 30. Of the lot all but about 5 p.c.
was invested in freeholds. Government secu-
rities, mortgages, etc. Returns from these
sources have been greatly reduced by the
sharp fall in rentals and cuts in interest on
Government paper, mortgages and fixed de-
posits. Also, the heavy shrinkage in value
of all property and the almost lifeless condi-
tion of the real-estate market have affected
the corpus and other commission earnings
of Australia’s oldest trustee co.
So, despite a net growth of £1,929,374 in
the volume of trusts on the books, there was
a contraction of £6360 in last year’s gross
earnings:—•
Gross Exes p.c. of
Trusts. Income. Exes. Income.
1910.. £9,013,807 £11,814 £6,820 57.7 p.c.
1920.. 13,533,081 41,924 25,538 60.9 „
1925.. 15,776,909 62,202 37.813 60.8
1928.. 20.897,807 74,190 46.353 62.5 „
1929.. 22,348.537 77,447 51,272 66.2 „
1930.. 23,574,354 76,260 54,373 71.3 „
1931.. 24,746,447 69,521 53,422 76.8 „
1932.. 26,675,821 63,161 54,609 86.4 „
Including £2OOO set: aside for taxation (no
special provision was made in the previous
year) exes, were £llB7 heavier. Thus there
was a slip of £7547 in five net result, which
was 6.1 p.c. on capital as against 11.4, 16,
17.9 and 19 p.c. back to 1928. So the div.,
which, after remaining steady at 14 p.c. for
the seven years to the close of accounts in
1930, dropped to 9 p.c. in 1931, was lowered
to 6 p.c., and looks like remaining there for
a while. On the co.’s own funds (capital
and reserves combined) a 6 p.c. div. calls
for only a wink over 3 p.c.; but there is
little prospect of early relief from taxation,
including the inequitable super-tax of 1.0
p.c. on income from property.
A couple of years ago the co. bought the
London Bank building in Collins-street. This
added £71,575 to the book value of freeholds,
and the board went to its bankers for
£20,515. But the sale of the Mitre Tavern
at a profit of £13,440 wiped out the over-
draft and left a cash balance of £10,212
at the end of June, 1931. At June 30 last
freehold figured at £120.950; public securi-
ties. £121,725 : mortgages, etc., £25,700 ; book
debts and cash, £10,521, There was nothing
coming to creditors. Plans for the new
building have been put on the shelf until
the outlook clears.
There are 100,000 shares of £2 10s. each
—60.000 paid to 30s. and the rest to 10s.
On the market the latter fetch 14s. 6d. and
the 30s. paids 445.; the return at these
prices is 4.1 p.e. in each case. The net tan-
gible backing is 395. lOd. per pound of paid
capital.
Howard Investment Co. (Brisbane)
, Dividends >
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1924.. 34,180 26 10 p.c. = 10,329 23,825 52,987
Reserves capitalised, £10.329 . . . . 42,658
1925.. 52,317 26 15 p.c. - 18,754 33,537 76,195
1926.. 69,606 26 15 „ „ 19,629 49,951 126,147
Taken from reserves, £8295 . . . . 117,852
1927.. 53,152 26 lo p.c. = 23.472 29,654 147,506
1928.. 37,952 26 15 „ „ 23,472 14,454 161,960
1929.. 20,211 26 12J „ „ 19,560 6,625 168,585
1930.. 20,123 20 10 „ ~ 15,647 4,450 173,035
1931.. 16,012 26 10 „ „ 15,647 339 173.374
Tax reserve drawn on, £2729.. .. 170,645
1932.. 9,737 26 8 p.c. = 12,518 167,838
At the end of October, 1030. this well-handled
agency concern relinquished General Motors
franchise and undertook the distribution of
Morris products in Queensland and on the
Northern Rivers of N. S. Wales. The two
subsidiaries —they do the marketing—made a
small loss; Queensland car registrations for
1931. (3579) were 78 p.c. lighter than in
1928. The parent also added Electrice refri-
geration and Hollingsworth radios to its
agency list. But less was received in rents
and interest, and gross profits (£16,948)
slipped £16,202, of which £9927 was offset
by savings in exes. (£7211), after first
charging the tax bill (£2792) against the
taxation reserve (now £23,271), which is
included with reserves in the table. Thus
the profit claimed was 6.2 p.c. on capital
compared with 10.2, 12.0, 16.6, 24.2, 35.4
and 52.6 p.c. back to 1926; so reserves had
to be tapped for £2807 to pay 8 p.c.. leaving
them still £10,933 in excess of capital.
But the past is no guide whatever to the
future of this business, which depends
mainly upon the success of the new agencies,
together with any others that may be
acquired. In order to avoid the resti’iction
of agency rights, the business was split up
amongst half a dozen subsidiaries in 1926;
but owing to the vicissitudes of the trade
four of the pups have put up the shutters,
apparently without loss to the parent. As
money became available from these and other
sources it was invested outside the motor
trade, largely in Government securities,
which figured at £107,045 at June 30. So
it is proposed to return 10s. per share in
cash,"reducing paid capital to £78.453; thus
making it less difficult to maintain a satis-
factory rate of div. on the other £78,453.
The position as balance-sheet figures show
it is very comfortable :
1926. 1929. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £131,285 £156,905 £156,905 £156,905
Mortgage .. 10,000 10,000 ■ — _
Sundry creditors 139,629 35,682 25,906 2,557
Freehold .. 63,472 72,610 74,561 66,516
Plant, etc. .. 4,372 113 221 192
Stocks.. .. 106,491 ' — '—
Book debts, in- 1 f
vestments, etc. j. g 97 321,492 296,759 1 202,236
Shares m sub- \ ’ \ „
sidies .. J l 54,51 <
Cash, etc. .. 7,783 7,703 11,468 16,383
In order to reduce overhead the parent pro-
poses to trade under its own name instead
of through the subsidiaries. But it is not
expected that any loss will show up in the
parent’s books on liquidation of the pups.
011 tin l basis of figures at .Tune 30, public
securities and cash were £44,975 in excess
of the capital to be returned.
The market prices the scrip around 24s
Allowing for the return of capital, the yield
at 245. would be 5.6 p.c. on an S p.c. div.
basis; and S p.c. would call for £o2io.
Assumed that the £78,453 to be returned to
shareholders netted 3 p.c. last year, the
balance of the profit claimed was £6oS4,
against which allowance needs to be made
for taxation.
Port Jackson and Manly Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 26,411 6 p.c. = 25,345 1,066 3,957
1923.. 32,186 6 „ „ 25,345 6,841 10,798
1924.. 25.406 6 .. ~ 25,345 61 10,859
1925.. 30,203 7 „ ~29,570 633 11,492
1926.. 25*003 7 ~ ~29,570 6,925
1927.. 2,727 Nil 2,727 9,652
1928! . 101116 3 p.c. = 12,673 7,096
Ship property written down £140,808 by striking
off ss. per share.
1929.. 33,346 10 p.c. = 28,161 5,185 12,280
1930.. 19,695 7 „ „ 19,713 12,262
1931.. 14,168 5 „ ~14,081 87 12,349
1932.. 18;651 5 „ ~ 14,081 4,570 16,919
Though unemployment continued to thin
the ranks of the regulars, the weather was
kind —it had interfered with the 1931 figures
by damping excursion traffic —and a tight hold
was kept upon outgoings. So, taking reserve
adjustments into the reckoning, the board
figured net earnings £4483 better than the
previous year’s, at 6.6 p.c. on capital as
against 5, 6.9 and 11.8 p.c. back to 1929.
when circumstances were exceptionally favor-
able. So the div. was kept at 5 p.c.. making
an average of 6 p.c. since the reconstruction
in 1920, which makes 6 p.e. worth a lot
more on old holdings, notwithstanding the
writing down in 1928.
In the reconstruction the book value of
the fleet had been multiplied by three, and
scrip paid to 40s. was handed out for every
share paid to 15s. in the old co., which had
been a steady 133? per center since pre-war
days. But costs continued to mount, and
the value of ships slumped so heavily that
ss. per share (£140,808) had to be sliced of!'
capital and fares raised to ensure mod-
erate divs. Still, the co. is now giving the
public the cheapest passenger service in the
metropolis. For this and other reasons the
Harbor Bridge, for use of which a toll is
charged, has not affected the co.’s earnings,
nor is it likely to do so whilst the toll
continues.
There is nothing to suggest that the year’s
net result Was any better than was claimed:
much of course depends upon wha't capital
expenditure, if any, was charged to revenue,
and whether the allowance for depreciation
proves to be more than is necessary. On
the fleet £12,591 more was written off than
was spent, reducing its book value to
£185,683; freeholds, plant, etc. (£50.972).
advanced £5622. So the net reduction in
the book value of fixed assets was £6969: —
1929. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Liquid assets.. £51,158 £51,291 £67,876 £77,282
Liabilities .. 9,837 5,289 3,454 3,511
Surplus liquids £41,321 £46,002 £64,422 £73,771
Fixed assets. £269,471 £256,325 £243,624 £236,655
Thus the liquid surplus was £9349 stronger
than at the previous balance and £32,450
better than the 1929 figure.
On the market the 10s. paid shares are
steady at par. The backing is 10s. 7d. in
net tangibles, mostly ships, etc., worth what
they can earn.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd. (Hobart)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
’“"wStS’o” «>•
Shoo 1 ”: 219 } “•»”
1925.. 23,946 12J p.c. = 18,750 ) 113 773
Written off, £4400 .. S
1926.. 20,608 10 p.c. = 15,000 ) „ 00g 116 731
Written off, £2600 . . j ’
1927.. 11,078 10 p.c. = 15,000 112,859
Taken from reserves, £9535 . . 103,324
1928. . 6,166 Nil 6,166 109,490
1929.. 12,382 Nil i 9 582 119,072
Written off, £2BOO . . )
Written off shares in other cos.,
£16,700 102,37-
1930.. 7,908 2^- p.c. = 5,000 2,908 100,280
Written off shares in other cos.,
£lO,OOO 0«,280
1931.. 13,016 3| p.c. = 7,500 5,516 100,796
Written off shares in other cos.,
£7162; reduction in general
reserve, £4603 .. .. • • 06,19.
1932.. 12,797 5 p.c. = 10,000 2,797 98,990
At the beginning of this century the div.
had dropped to 3 p.c., and looked like stay-
ing there. But 9s. per share (£60,750) was
lopped off capital, and a steady 6 p.c. was paid
until the close of accounts in 1919. A couple
of years later 4s. per share (£30,000) was
restored, making the scrip (21s. face value)
paid to 20s. The co. had just then linked
up with T. Boag and Son, and their beer-
brewing plants, etc., were transferred to a
subsidiary, Tasmanian Brewery Pty., for
scrip, including approximately £03,000 worth
in excess of book values.
For the seven years to June 30, 192 1,
Cascade’s divs. averaged 10.4 p.c. Then, m
order to meet opposition, prices were cut, a
new Nathan brewing plant was installed, the
Pty. ceased to contribute to the pool, and
Cascade paid no divs. in ’2B and ’2O and
only 21 p.c. and 3f p.c. in the two follow-
ing years. By this time the opposition con-
cern had got into deep water, and Tas-
manian Breweries’ local and export trade
revived. During the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts the business bold well,
(Continued on page J 6.)


THE EQUITY TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS,
AND AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
472 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir EDWARD F. MITCHELL, K.C.M.G., K.C., Chairman;
IVOR EVANS, Esq.; Hon. J. G. LATHAM, C.M.G., K.C., M.P.; Sir STEPHEN
MORELL, K. 8.; ALLAN SPOWERS, Esq.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS.
For Presentation to the Seventy-seventh Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders,
to be Held on Thursday, the 11th Day of August, 1932.
The Directors regret to have to record the death, on the 25th April last, of
the Hon. Donald Mackinnon, who was a director of the company for nearly 34
years, and its Chairman for the last 15 years. During this long period he was
always most devoted and helpful, and never failed to do everything possible to
further the company’s interests. He had endeared himself to his fellow-directors,
the officers, and staff, by all of whom his loss will be much felt.
The new business which has come in to the company during the year has
been much over the average of recent years, but the reduced values of the estates,
the lower interest rates and increased taxation have resulted in smaller net profits
than would have been obtained in normal times, which latter your directors hope
will soon return.
By Order of the Board,
JOEL FOX, Manager. . .
Melbourne, 28th July, 1932.
“COMPANIES ACT 1928.’
BALANCE-SHEET AT 30th JUNE, 1932.
LIABILITIES,
Authorised Capital—
-200,000 shares of
£2/10/- each. . £500,000 0 0
Less unissued .. 50,000 0 0
£450,000 0 0
Less uncalled .. 360,000 0 0
Capital paid up in
money .. .. . £90,000
Melbourne Hebrew Congregation—
Mortgage and accrued interest .. 32,025
Bank overdraft —building account . . 16,500
Reserve fund . . ~ .. 80,000
Profit and loss account .. .. 13,735
£232,260 C 10
Overdrawn Trust Accounts with
Bankers, secured by the Assets of
the respective Trusts (see contra) £129,065 16 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
6 10
ASSETS.
Guarantee Fund held by the Trea-
surer of Victoria .. .. .. .£lO,OOO 0 0
Australian Consolidated
Inscribed Stock £ S
2/- per cent., £llOO,
at cost .. .. £869 0 0
Australian Consolidated
Inscribed Stock, 4
per cent., £BOO, at
cost . . .. 800 0 0
Melb. and Metrop.
Board of Works 35
per cent. Stock,
£18,400, at cost .. 17,091 11 11
Melb. and Metrop.
Board of Works 55
per cent, (reduced
to 5 per cent.)Stock,
£lOOO, at cost .. 1,000 0 0
19,760 11 11
Heal Estate, Bourke Street Pro-
perty, at cost 139,073 16 2
Cash in hand and at Bankers . . 1.126 7 5
Sundry Debtors for Commissions, etc.
(after providing for bad and
doubtful debts) . . .. . . 60,390 9 5
Fixtures, Fittings and Office Fur-
niture (after providing for de-
preciation) 1,909 1 11
£232,260 6 10
Moneys advanced to Trust Estates,
for which assets of the Trusts are
held by the Company (see contra) £129,065 16 0
Profit and Loss Account for the Year Ended 30th June, 1932.
To Directors’ and Auditors’ Fees,
Salaries, Advertising, Stationery,
Office and other Expenses .. .. £28,759 8 10
To Federal and State Income Taxes
for Year 2,564 11 9
To Mortgage Interest, etc 1,868 5 5
To Balance, Net Profit for year,
carried down 10,262 3 4
£43,454 9 4
By Commissions, Rents, Interest, on
Investments, etc., after providing
for contingencies .. ..£43,4.54 9 4
£43,454 9 4
1932 —Ist February.
To Interim Dividend of 6 per
cent . £5,400
1932—30th June.
To Balance .. .. .. .. 13.735
0 0
6 10
£19,135 6 10
. . £16.666 12 10
1931 —30th .Tunc.
By Balance
Less further Divi-
dend of S per
cent .. ..£7,200 0
Writing 10 per cent,
off Office Fur-
niture Account . . 206 0
Transfer to Reserve
Fund .v .. 387 9
1932—30th June.
By Net Profit for Year, as above. .
7,793 9 4
£8,873 3 6
10,262 3 4
£19,136 6 10
The Certificate by Directors and the Auditors’ Report and Certificate required
by the Companies Act 1928 accompany the Official Report and Balance-sheet.
>*
Sv 1 S
*
o '
•o
y 5?
Z
C\
MARIPOSA
and
MONTEREY
Sydney to
HOLLYWOOD
within 18 days
... on these new sovereigns of the Pacific
From Sydney to the kingdom of the films is the first
span of your shortest journey to England... a
voyage of captivating charm. En route, visits of
absorbing interest at Suva, Pago Pago and Honolulu... between
ports ocean interludes filled with diversified enjoyment . . . out-
door swimming plunge . . . talking pictures . . . radio entertain-
ment... regulation tennis... ship sports and night club gaiety!
1 1 1 There is no increase in fares for this trip that
opens up to you America’s vast array of giant cities . . . Los
Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago, New York . . . her scenic
wonders . . . Grand Canyon, Yellowstone, Niagara.
' ' 1 Through transportation to any point in America
or England. Let us assist in arranging your itinerary.
FAMES Sydney to Los Angeles
First Class from £73 Cabin Class from £5O/10
FAMES Melbourne to Los Angeles
First Class from £75 Cabin Class from £52/10
Next Sailings
"MONTEREY" "MARIPOSA"
from Melbourne August 23
from Sydney Aug. 27
from Melbourne September 20
from Sydney September 24
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney. 'Phone, 87981-3.
Agents: Dalgety & Company Limited
341 Collins Street and 461 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
'Phone, Central 288 (5 lines).
MB.2A
A SADDLE TO LAST A LIFETIME
The “TUMBA” Stock Saddle
WITH EVERY STITCH
A HAND STITCH
OUR No. 138 “TUMBA” STOCK
SADDLE has the experience of 50
years saddle-making built into it, and with reasonable
care will last a lifetime, rarely seeing the repair shop.
The seat and skirt are combined with no seam to
burst, the pads are exceptionally firm and set high
up and the flaps are long. All the material is first
grade and the workmanship is excellent. Fitted with
best bevelled leathers, folded girth and n.-p. four-bar
irons.
FREIGHT paid for cash to
Xt ANY N.S.W. RAILWAY STATION
No. 148 Best Ring-head Station Bridle, with good
n.-p. Ring Bit. lin 17/9
27in. Checked Kersey for cloth 6/6
No. 46 Best Welted Bag Leather Pouch ...... 13/6
No. 45 Plain Hide Saddle Pouch 6/9
No. 428 Round Quartpot Case, 6/9. Pot .... 3/-
No. 9 “Kingfisher” Station Stockwhip, plaited belly,
Bft. thong and 12-plt. handle 25/-
Postage 1/- extra unless sent with saddle.
3' .
MM
533
h
■- \
Write for Catalogue of
Cheap Saddlery.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.,
391 to 395 George St.,
Sydney.
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1 000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
Prom the Head Office of Tub Bulletin, 2f>2 George
Street, Sydney ; or from any branch office —Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorney 6,
Asbestos House. Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coi.hson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * #
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes. — Advt.
d W V
44 A sure friend in uncertain times ”
*6K
V
y
V
/
Make provision for them
while the going is good!
WHILE the going is good”—that is the point! While
you are in good health, while you are earning a steady
income—no matter how small or how large—you can win
the peace of mind that belongs to those who provide for their
families.
Peace of mind is an unusual offering, but that is exactly what
the A.M.P. provides for its members.
Many a man battles ; along through life loaded with the
anxiety of his family’s future, when he could provide for that
future (and banish worry) by the simple process of becoming
a member of the A.M.P. Society
Take an actual case: A certain man married in 1892. He met
his responsibility to his bride by investing a pound a week
(£5B/16/8 a year, to be exact) in an A.M.P. policy for
£2OOO. That policy provided protection for his wife and
peace of mind for himself over a long period. He lived a
happy, care-free life until early this year, when his wife, son
and daughter received £3829 on this policy alone.
We say “on this policy alone” because so delighted was this
member with the way the policy grew in value that, as his
property increased (a product of his peace of mind), he took
out other policies that grew, with bonus additions, to comfort-
ing size
An A.M.P. policy provides immediate protection. The day
the first premium is paid a man’s residual estate is established.
Don’t waste a day. Peace of mind is too precious to miss.
Ring, or write to, nearest A.M.P. office and ask for full
particulars.
Australian Mutual Provident
Society
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
F. F. McBRYDE, A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
Assistant General Manager. General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
Branch Offices in the Capital and Principal Cities of Australia and
New Zealand.
The largest Mutual Life
office in the Empire *
A-M-P
ami Cascade paid 5 p.c. from profits, equal
to 6.3 p.c. on capital.
That is disregarding a reduction of £4603
in reserves applied towards striking £7162
off the goodwill holding in the Pty.,
making the total amount so rubbed out since
the amalgamation £52,462, and reducing
shares and debentures in other cos. to
£63,247 at June 30: —
1927. 1929. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. ? £186,223 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Mortgages and
deposits .. 69,461 132,631 129,124 131,385
Overdrafts, etc. 57,167 26,206 10,976 4,163
Freeholds, etc. 223,972 256,280 253,847 253,653
Slock and plant 21,072 113,241 111,281 107,869
Hook debts, etc. 79,694 15,570 24,801 22,033
Cash and in-
vestments .. 7,288 318 312 5,845
Shares in other
cos... .. 101,284 95,334 70.509 63,247
At the close of accounts book debts, etc.,
were £12,425 in excess of the floating debt
(£15,453). But the weight of the deben-
tures (£102,753) and mortgage (£17,341) is
pressing heavily upon earnings, notwith-
standing the statutory cut in interest. It
was mainly to finance tin* new plant that
this debt was piled up, and £50,000 of fresh
capital was gathered.
The scrip is priced at 15s. on the market
as against 11s. Od. a year ago. The return
at 15s. is 6.7 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The
net asset backing is 295. lid. per pound of
paid capital.
Electrolytic Zinc Co. has erected two addi-
tional roasting furnaces at Zeeban (Tas.)
for the treatment of Rosebery zinc concen-
trates, making six furnaces in all. When
production begins about half the zinc
concentrates will be roasted at Zeelian, and
the other half will be shipped to Risdon. No
acid will be made at Zeeban from the roaster
gases. The zinc sulphide in the Rosebery
ore contains less iron than at Broken Hill:
lienee a higher grade concentrate, approach-
ing 60 p.c. zinc as against 52.5 p.c. at the
Barrier, is expected. The mill at Rosebery
will not start up until metal prices improve
substantially. The co. is said to be earning
sufficient profit, to cover debenture .interest
and the pref. div.
* * ❖
At Mt. Morgan important research work
on the recovery of gold and copper from
the ore above the 450 ft. level will be carried
out by Messrs. Slierrifs and Cornelius, the
two metallurgical experts loaned by the
Electrolytic Zinc Co. While this work is
being done, the plant will bo put in order to
treat 700 tons of ore weekly. There is over
664,000 tons, assaying O.lSdwt. gold and 0.91
p.c. copper, above the 450 ft„ and a further
7,336,000 tons, assaying 4.l7dwt. gold and
1.78 p.c. copper, below that. The ore and
filling in the upper levels, much of which can
be worked by open cut, is oxidised in parts,
and this may make flotation difficult. At
the moment the value of the ore lies in its
gold content, hence a high recovery is essen-
tial. The co. aims at a production of 3000 oz.
gold and 90 tons copper monthly.
* * * *
“Old Warden” : The report of some excep-
tionally rich crushings from the Cracow
goldfield (Q.) sent shares in some of the
concerns there rocketing again last week.
There is little thus far to justify expecta-
tions of a highly profitable future for the
field as a whole. The official report
describes it as a large low-grade pro-
position, with widely-separated shoots of
rich ore. The crushings reported have all
been small parcels, totalling only 10 tons
12cwt. Certainly this gave a return of
2770 z., but it was no test at all of the whole-
sale values of the Cracow lodes.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd., the pros-
pecting concern hacked by a powerful group
of half a dozen London and three Australian
mining cos. which successfully floated
Mt. Coolon, has taken an option over the
Camboon Prospecting Co.’s leases, a few
miles from Mt. Perry (Q.). So far 1200 ft.
of costeoning has been done at various
points, and a 30ft. shaft has been sunk.
Tanami Gold Mines and Sydney Tanami
Lodes have entered into an agreement with
the well-equipped Chapman expedition,
which recently left Brisbane for Centralia,
to obtain a water supply of not less than
30,000 gallons per day, delivered at the bat-
tery. Provision is also made for the forma-
tion of a new co., with a capital of not less
than £200,000, to take over the two proper-
ties. Tanami Gold Mines is to get £25,000 for
its show —£5000 cash and the balance in
shares, or the whole amount in shares as
desired. Tanami Lodes is to be purchased
on terms to be approved by shareholders.
The Chapman boring plant is capable of
going down to 600 ft. with a 4in. core.
There is little doubt about getting the water
required; Tanami has already struck the
regioual-water level, and formations are
well saturated. The boring will also afford
an opportunity of testing values at depths
not yet touched. The expedition is making
Tanami its first objective.
* * * *
At Elgalla (Q.), seven miles from Tunga-
mull on the Rockbampton-Emu Park railway
line, where about 20 men are prospecting
for gold, a six-ounce nugget has been found.
Work on the field is hampered by lack of
water; so the Government is to be asked
to put down a well and equip it with a
supply tank and small petrol engine. Lack
of water is also a handicap on the Mt.
Ussher and old Canoona fields in the same
district.
Golden Surprise, North Arm (Q.), has
acquired the adjoining Extended lease, and
is developing the Coolum lode on both the
Extended and its own property. This reef
is 20in. -wide and payable. The Surprise
mill is now working two shifts on ore worth
£3 per ton, excluding the premium.
At Black Ridge (Q.) the Lone Hand deep
lead is being tested by shaft-sinking, and
results are said to be encouraging. The
first shaft, depth 62ft., proved 3ft. of pay-
able wash, 15ft. wide. Coarse nuggets up
to 4dwt. have been obtained. In the same
district, at Sheepyards, the White lead has
been freshly located at a depth of 80ft., with
2ft. of low-grade wash.
*>* ’•* ***
At Iguana Flat, near Ruby Vale (Q.), a
sapphire of good quality was recently found
embedded between two teeth in the jaw of
a prehistoric animal. Sales of blue sapphire
from the Anakie field totalled £450 for the
past three months.
“Peu”: The Middle Gira in North-eastern
Papua, which was regarded as a gold-dredg-
ing proposition over 30 years ago, is to be
given another flutter. Two well-known
Papuan-New Guinea miners, George Arnold
and Leslie Joubert, have been registered as
holders of some four and a half miles along
the river. There were many dredging claims
surveyed and mapped on the Gira and the
Mamba rivers by a contract surveyor em-
ployed by the Government, but that isi as
far as matters ever got. Joe Sloan, another
old Papuan hand, was some time ago re-
investigating the Gira with a view to dredg-
ing. Nothing definite resulted.
“Hornby” : There has ben a slight rush to
the Cooccoran (N.S.W.) opal field, an exten-
sion of Lightning Ridge, owing to two pros-
pectors having bottomed on fair-sized nobby-
stone, showing moderate color at fifteen teet.
Hitherto, prospecting there had been prac-
tically fruitless. A stone weighing 11 -
carats was recently found at the Paid inns,
and a local buyer is said to have paid over
three figures for it. An almost perfect sample
of black opal (five to six carats) lias also
been unearthed on the main ground. Lui.
generally speaking, the field is quiet, and
most of the little that is being won is not
above f.a.q.
* #
The number of men employed in gold-
mining in Westralia increased from 411H'
at the end of 1929 to 7330 in March last.
The ore treated by the 30-odd State batteries
for the first half of 1932 was 70,000 tons, or
20,000 tons more than for the whole of lAm.
* * *
Gt. Boulder’s sheet at the end of 1931
totalled £321,473, of which £121,543 was
cash in Australia, and £32,365 bullion in
process of realisation. Investments include
j. 1,700 Wiluna and 1000 Boulder Persever-
ance shares, which figured at £4SGO and £(*.>
respectively. A sum of £39,549 has been
reserved pending a decision the appeal by
tributors, who are claiming 50 p.c. of the
gold premium. ,
South Kalgurli’s figures at March 31 show
the co. to he in a healthy position. Iho
year’s profit was £76,400 compared with
£33,000 for the preceding 12 months l or
the 11 years to the end of March, 1931, the
co. paid a steady 25 p.c. Last year ->0 p.c.
(£62.502) was distributed. In addition
£12,000 was written off the book value of
property and £5119 off the cost of new plant,.
The 10s. shares fetch around 265. 6d. on the
market. , *
Sons of Gwalia is another WestraHan gold
producer that is going well, thanks to the
exchange and the gold bonus. The directors
recently cleaned up the sheet by writing ott
excess book v&lues, half the capital being
struck off for the purpose, reducing it to
£162,500 in 10s. shares. These are priced
at 14s. 7d. ou the market as against 9s. Id.
a year ago. The Gwalia is one of the few
mines that have improved with depth.
Paringa, whose shares have been inquired
for in Perth and Adelaide lately, owns an idle
mine at Kalgoorlie, an interest in a doubtful
"•old venture in Rhodesia and wads of shares
in an asbestos and also a brown-coal concern
elsewhere. Tributors have won a lot o>
gold from the Kalgoorlie mine in the past;
so the co. proposes to look for the continua-
tion of the shoots as soon as it can raise
enough money. The 1932 accounts are not
yet. available; those for 1931 showed £712,»
cash in hand. , ...
For Associated Northern’s ' 20s. shares
(there are 350,000 of them) Adelaide has
recently paid 2s. Cd. At present the gold
yield from the. co.’s tributed Kalgoorlie show
is insignificant, and nothing is coming from
its Ora Banda leases, which have been lplo
for some time.
Princess Royal at Westonia (W.A.) re-
cently crushed 142 tons of developmental
ore for as many ounces. On No. 3 level a
winze is down 60ft. in lOdwt. stuff 24m.
wide, while on No. 4 the drive has been
extended 97ft. in ore averaging 25dwt.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
Has England control of more oil wells or
more oil than America? If so, how much
more? —1383. ... . .
More oil is produced in California than
in all the rest of the world put together.
In 1931 the U.S.A. accounted for 113 million
tons of crude petroleum out of a world pro-
duction of 180 million tons. though the
Shell Co., for instance, has interests in the
U.S.A., American cos. control the greatest
portion of the world’s known oilfields.
(1) What is meant by geophysical pros-
pecting? Discuss the methods employed.
(2) Is there any booh containing infor-
mation on geophysical prospecting? —lolB.
(1) Geophysical prospecting differs from
the older methods in that use is made of
sensitive instruments to locate changes _ in
the physical properties of the underlying
rocks Such physical disturbances must
then be interpreted in terms of geological
structure. There is special scope for these
methods where surface features are lacking.
The most commonly-used methods may be
divided into (a) electrical, (b) magnetic,
(c) gravimetric and (d) seismic. The elec-
trical and magnetic methods are mostly used,
being cheaper and easier to apply. (2) A
straightforward account of this subject is
given in “Applied Geophysics,” by Eve and
Keys, price 225. A more detailed account,
dealing especially with work in Australia,
is “Principles and Practice of Geophysical
Surveying,” by Edge and Laby, price 255.
These books may be obtained from public
libraries, or through Angus and Robertson.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.C.: It. is still on the hunt for capital ; doubt-
ful whether it will ever reach production stage
A.R.: The co. intends to appeal to the Privy Council
against the decision of the English High Court.
Until the appeal is heard the position remains in
doubt.. . .P.W.F.: (1) A.M.P., National Mutual, T.
and G. and City Mutual. (2) M.fi.C Pacific:
(1) and (2) Unable to say —the shares are not
listed on ’Change. AVhen the uncalled liability is
likely to be wanted, and it is in this case, investors
look askance at contribs. The fully-paids may
be difficult to place, even at a small discount. (3)
There are no bonds, and therefore less danger of
over-capitalisation. Shareholders seem to be getting
a fair run for their money; if they are not, the
remedy' lies in their hands. As for prospects in this
class of business, see “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” August
1932 W.J.P.: See B. 16/3/’32 and B. 27/4/’32.
J.W.T.: See “‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” August,
1932. .. .C.11.R.: The terms and conditions of the
bond, usually' printed on the back thereof, make it
a definite contract between the holder and the co.
The obligation of the holder is to pay the sum
specified. The co. can sue for specific performance;
whether it will do so remains to be seen. Forfeiture
means forfeiture of money's already paid... .I.B.:
It is a sound stock; Brisbane quotes buyers, 275.;
sellers, 29s H.C.T.: (1) Paid capita], £4,092,925
in 4,449,182 shares of £1 each. There are no
debentures. (2) Edie Creek area, New Guinea.
(3) Over 100,000 tons, assaying loz. gold, have
been measured up on the lower area, and a lot
more stone of similar quality' is known to exist. No
estimate of the large reserves on the plateau has
yet been made available. (4) Impossible to say.
The treatment mill, which began last month on
the lower area, is expected to add £200,000 p.a. to
net profits. (5) Operating profit for May', £9584
from 3150 z. of bullion. (6) Cannot say until extent
of ore bodies are known. (7) Though the exchange
premium has brightened co.’s outlook, shares appear
to be fully priced at the moment... .J. 0.8.: Nos.
], 2 and 5 have good chances of capital apprecia-
tion; :! and 4 arc more speculative, but should be
worth a small flutter... .D.W.A.E.: (1) No. (2)
No; they are all long-term speculations. (3) The
predictions are nearly all rashly optimistic, based
on a few isolated instances of good profits from the
industry R.A.R.: (1) A.M.P., National Mutual,
M.L.0., Prudential. (2) Yes W.S.: North Charter-
land Exploration Co. (1910), Ltd., a reconstruction
of the co. you mention, is still carrying on agri-
cultural and mineral-prospecting pursuits in Northern
Rhodesia. The shares have been written down to
ss. ; these are quoted at Is. 9d. (sterling) in
London. Write to the secretary of the co., Palmers-
ton House, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.2....
G.W.C.: There is no record of the occurrence of
black opal in the Riverina, nor has there been any
production of precious opal there.


THE SOAP-BOX
An attempt to answer some of the questions asked by correspondents.
Index Numbers
l suppose 1 ought to he ashamed of myself,
hut 1 can’t make sure ivhat an “index
number” is. 1 think I’ve got it, and then
the term is used in a reap that shows I must
have been wrong. Get up on the box and
settle it, please. —Japoon (Q.).
A station’s payments averaged £lO per
week for stores in 1913 = £520 a year. It
resolves to make the expenditure a basis for
comparing its income and expenditure. It
therefore takes £520 as a base; that is to
say, 100. Next year its store bills are £545:
that means 100 multiplied by 545 divided by
520 = 104.5. Next year the bill was £5BO.
Multiply that by 100 and divide by 520 -
111.5. The boss thus sees the store bill
moving 100, 104.8, 111.5; and that makes
him wonder whether he can afford that rise.
So he gets the total from sales of wool for
the base year (1913). and finds it was
£3BOO. So £3BOO = 100 for the base year. In
1914 he got £4060. Then 4060 multiplied
bv 100, divided by 3800 = 106.8. In 1915
tlie ( total was £4200. Then 4200 x 1,00
~r- 3800 r 110.5. You can now make up the
start of an index table with 1913 figures as
a base: —
Stores Bill. Wool Sales.
1913.. .. 100.0 100.0
1914.. .. 104.8 106.8
1915.. .. 111.5 110.5
And from that you can see that your stores
bill increased in 1915 faster than your income
from wool. The analysis can, of course, be
carried on indefinitely.
Rationing
We all like receiving high wages, but it
is no good half the population getting full
wages and the other half living on charity.
Take an ordinary family with its income
reduced to half—does one half maintain the
ordinary standard of living and the other
half go without? It it is a proper family
it will share prosperity and adversity alike,
and so it should be with a nation. So it
seems to me the remedy is, distribute the
available ivages by distributing the available
work, and there would be no need for bor-
rowing money for relief works. Does not
that appeal to you as fair?— Workek
(N.S.W.).
Rationing may be better than keeping half
in idleness or borrowing to keep them em-
ployed. But it is a poor second-best. At
present 1,000,000 people in Australia are
able to keep themselves and 300,000 others.
What is there about the million that dis-
tinguishes them from the 300,000? Nothing
at all. The 300,000 are just as fit to keep
themselves as the million are to keep them-
selves and 300,000 others. If two members
of a family of six are out of a. job, it is very
well for all to share and share alike; but
the sensible thing is for the two to get work.
If the four can keep six, then something is
very wrong if the six can’t keep the six a
great deal better. It is nonsense to say that
there isn’t the work to do. There is always
work to do—not half the people are fed and
clad and housed as they should be; and until
they are fed and clad and housed in that
way there is work to be done. As for pur-
chasing power, every man can create that
out of his power of production. Rationing
is a confession of incapacity and failure.
Exchange and the Manufacturer
I have _ come into contact with much
divided opinion on the question of how and
why our secondary industries are affected by
exchange-rate fluctuations. I icould be
grateful for something on the subject. —
F. O.D. (N.S.W.).
They are not all affected in the same way.
The premium is equivalent to a Customs
duty; at present all British goods pay 25
p.c. on cost. Those secondary industries of
our own which depend more or less on im-
ported raw materials are liable to be badly
hit by this surtax unless they can pass it
on. Generally, the local manufacturer who
is not dependent on foreign raw material can
put up his prices; but as prices generally
go up, his costs rise, and the advantage is
liable to be eventually wiped out. The
trouble then is that, just as there is a lag
in the raising of costs, so there is a lag in
the lowering of them when the exchange pre-
mium is reduced; and then the importer has
the advantage. At the moment a local
manufacturer of boots is exporting and com-
peting with the foreigner because he is get-
ting what amounts to a bonus of 25 p.c. on
his foreign sales.
Home Industries
(1) I send my washing to an old lady at
present because I cannot ■wash. Also I have
my horses shod by a man who, but for such
as I, would be on the dole. Do you hold
that, if I and my neighbors did all these
things ourselves so that these poor persons
became entirely destitute, the community
would benefit thereby? (2) Unless we accept
England’s manufactured articles, how are we
to be paid (over and above the annual
£36,000,000) for our wheat and wool? (3)
Is Australia, not paying too dear for its
“industries”?—A. E. A. (N.S.W.).
(1) No; but if you’ve got time on your
hands, and are already heavily in debt,
you’d better learn to wash. Lots of people
in Australia have been paying others for
doing what they should have done them-
selves, and have borrowed for the purpose.
Now’ the children are paying for their
parents’ laziness. If you haven’t got any
time on your hands, by all means hire the
old lady. But hire one handy—not one
12.000 miles away. And the same as to the
blacksmith : if you’ve got horses to shoe, and
other people have horses to shoe, by all
means encourage a blacksmith to settle in
tlie neighborhood. It’s a fool’s game to
depend on a blacksmith at the other end of
the earth. (2) We haven’t heard anybody
proposing to do entirely without imports:
such a thing would he very awkward, if not
impossible. But there is no supreme virtue
in exporting, . We do it only to buy abroad
things we can’t buy at borne (that, of eourse,
is in addition to paying interest). If. how-
ever, we could buy at home everything we
wanted, it would be quite absurd to export.
(3) Quite likely wo are paying too dear for
some of our industries. Wo can admit that
without in any way reflecting on Protection.
And we should certainly have to pay too
dear for our imports if we had no factories
here to compete with them.
No More Work to Do
You blame high wages for the present un-
employment. I say that such remarks can
only come from one who wishes the world to
continue in its present obsolete state. You
know only too well that half the workers of
the world will never be re-employed; our
scientific ■machinery has settled that once
and for all— W. A. Uilmeister (Q.).
We hope we have never been stupid enough
to say that any one thing is the cause of
present unemployment. A dozen circum-
stances have conspired to that end. Ouo
of the things we have said is that too many
people have been doing the wrong jobs and
now must be put to others. But even that
is due to other causes—chiefly the war, with
reparations and other overseas debts. High
wages are in general good wages; hut we
have got overseas commitments, and you
can’t sell the products of high wages in a
low-wage market —and that’s why our wages
have had to come down. The man who has
been producing these export goods has been
shamefully sweated the last two years; we
say it is about time others helped him to
carry the burden. As for half the world
never getting employment again, the foolish
remark has been made probably all through
the ages. Fifty years ago, after the first
great burst of machinery installation,
workers were told that that was the end.
Since then the world has seen the electrical
age and the motor-car and wireless and the
aeroplane. An official of the great General
Electric Co. reported in 1929 that one-fourth
of its total production was made up of new
lines developed since the war. Like many
another generation, we say we have ex-
hausted the possibilities. There is no more
reason to suppose we have done this than
that our predecessors had. There is, in fact,
no limit to the world’s wants.
Has Machinery Done It?
The opinion of The Bulletin seems to
be that the cause of the present economic
chaos and unemployment is “lack of adjust-
ment.” What mechanisation of industry has
occurred in the past ten yearsf What per-
centage of employees has this displacedf
And do you conform to
the view that mechan-
isation has been more
prejudicial than benefi-
cial to the community
ivhile waiting for the
adjustment? C. N. D.
(Vic.).
We’ve got no statistic*
on the subject covering
this ten-year period. But
it isn’t only mechanisa-
tion which has thrown
the industries out of
equilibrium. Figures con-
cerning sugar production
in Australia were printed
in The Bulletin the
other day; and this is a
typical case. The pre-
war average was 185,000
tons. Then, owing to
the stoppage of beet-
sugar production over the
greater part of Europe
during the war, Australia
had to pay dearly for its
imported sugar, where-
fore Billy Hughes urged
the North to plant cane
and still more cane. The
result is that our output
is now beyond 600,000
tons a year, and we have
to find foreign markets
for over 200,000 tons.
And we are only one of
many. Thus the U.S.A,
stimulated production in
the Philippines, and the
crop ran up from 394,000
tons in 1923 to 750,000
tons in 1929. In the
latter year 18 .represen-
tative Cuban sugar cos.
reported a total loss of
over £600,000 for the 12
months, overproduction
having smashed the mar-
ket. As to whether
mechanisation is at the
moment more of a curse
than a blessing—well-
had population increased
rapidly, famines (from
which the world fre-
quently suffered in the
pre-machine era) would
have been greatly inten-
sified if machines had not
helped production. To-
day. through mechanisa-
tion, the world suffers
not from famine but
rather from glut; and
surely a glut is far more
easily got over than
famine. Indeed, only
human selfishness and
stupidity stand in the
way of an early recovery
Cutting Prices in Halvef
If we cut all prices
wages, etc., to half, and
thereby doubled the vain
of money, would not a.
favorable trade balance
be worth twice as much
to us as it is now? The
primary producers would,
of course, reap the great-
est benefit, but, if their
overseas sales returned
nearly 100 p.c. profit in-
stead of a loss as they
so often do at present,
they could pay higher
real wages and accept
lower real prices for produce sold locally,
In this way would, not the gain be distributed
fairly evenly through the community? —
Heuesone (Q-).
"Heresone” is probably a woolgrower
who buys packs from overseas, none being
made here. How is the price of packs to be
halved? How is the price of any imported
article to be halved? We must pay nearly
30 millions a year in interest. The taxation
to produce that must obviously be doubled;
for to the foreigner our bale of wool <:>r
bushel of wheat would hr worth just the same
as it was before we cut our notes in halves
and said one was two. If this was an en-
tirely self-contained country, having no trade
with other countries and neither owing nor
owed anything, it wouldn t matter much it
wc cut our notes into 20 pieces, and called
each piece a note. But when we have over-
seas relations, then we simply can’t double
the value of money so far as the overseas
people are concerned. Smith was getting
£lOOO a year, which is reduced to £5OO. lie
has bought a motor-car, on which he still
owes £4OO. How is he going to manage?
In only one way—by the agent being able
to buy for £2OO just as much wool for
export as he previously could buy for £4OO.
And that knocks out the. idea. that, the
primary producer would be a great gamer.
n ,i D , i , , .
Wiping Out the Pastoral Industry
The Judge has just given out. his award
in the shearing industry, and has actually
raised the cost. Yet everyone knows most
of us are carrying on at a loss. Do you
realise what will happen if the pastoral in -
dustry is wiped out, altogether? It is time
the position was viewed from that angle,
1 have just had a letter from the manager
of a big co. interested in the, industry con-
taining these pregnant words: “Wc trust
that next year, unless the pastoral industry
is wiped out altogether m the meantime.
you will favorably consideretc., etc, —
11. M. C. (N.S.W.)'.
t,,.,,,, * . . , , ,
Isn t it about time we tried to look at
this industry apart from the people who at
the moment are in it? Iu another part ol
this same letter reference is made to a man
who couldn t get Ins wool ol because he
could get no more credit, and it is added
that a lew years ago lie was so well off lie
bought a new car after every shearing. This
talk of the probability of the wool industry
being wiped out altogether is doing us a
great deal of harm: how can we expect con-
iidcnce to be restored while men talk like
this and papers print, the story? There are
men still in the business who know what
the Western Division of N. S. Wales was
like after the terrible experiences of the
early ’nineties. Of all the men who had
worked that country for years probably not
30 p.c. were able to keep their holdings.
Banks and finance cos. were driven to.take
over enormous areas. (C. R. Murphy, one
the directors and liquidators ot Bawra.
could tell stories about that.) Yet the in-
dus try didn't disappear—didn’t even dls-
appear though the gruelling of the ’nineties
was followed- by an appalling time in 1903
an d tnereabouts. It is. in fact, safe to say
lhat m no other 10 years was half so much
nioney made in that district as between
1916 and 1926.
Russian Statistics
It is plainly not any good taking notice
of travellers who spend a feiv weeks in
Russia seeing mostly what they want to sec
or what their hosts and guides want them to
see. 1 can’t, believe that the people who are
running the show haven't most accurate,
statistics even if they don't give them out to
the world. Do you know if any such are
available? —Searchek (N.S.W.).
What look like the most authentic figures
we know of are compiled by the Bureau, of
Research on Russian Lconomic Conditions
an institution supported and controlled by
Birmingham University (Eng.). For 1931
it says that the U.S.S.R. “has achieved im-
portant results, marked by the following in-
creases : Gross output of large-scale industry,
21.7 p.c.; sowing area, 7.6 p.c.” The bureau
remarks upon “the rapid development of
large-scale industry,” and concludes that “the
productive forces of the country are un-
doubtcdly in a state of rapid growth.” It
. l ! s , howevei, that progress is very uneven,
an * 1(1101 s '
decrease in production of pig-iron .. .. 7.5 p.c.
''^scalc^industrv* 1 ' ° f labor m la, ’ Bre ' „ ()
Illcre ase 'in cost of production (instead of ”
planned decrease) .. .. .. 2.0
Increase of area under cereals .. . . 2.5 ”
I ncrease in goods traffic .. . . 4.1 ~
Increase of price index (instead of planned
decrease) .. 50.0
Decrease of consumption fund per capita .’ 3.0 ”
q'] 1(! bureau’s final conclusion is: “The
actual results ()f the year 1931 diffpr so
largely from planned estimates that they
load us to regard the economic order now
existing in Russia not as a system of planned
economy but as a State monopoly unavoid-
ably bound to tolerate within itself the
existence of uncontrollable elemental forces."
Which is another way of saying that Com-
munism would be a great success if human
nature wasn’t what this great Russian cx-
periment, like all the others, is finding out
that it is.
ONE WOULD-BE DICTATOR TO ANOTHER.
Adolph Hitler, in an interview at Munich, said that the Nazis would refuse to ratify the arrange-
ment which forced the country to go on paying extortionate war interest. They demanded a
reduction of all external debt services, and would cut internal interest to 3 per cent.”
Good on you, Ad.! Hitler is Right! But you mustn’t forget to borrow the other planks in me
platform—the lottery, and the fruit machines, and the tin hares.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Bitter Sweet”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Grand Opera
King's “Captain Brassbound’s Conversion”
State Movies and Talkies
*
At Melbourne King’s the Sybil Thorn-
dike eo. is rounding off its season with
‘‘Captain Brassbound’s Conversion,” an
early piece of Shaw, no doubt valued by the
Dame for the opportunities it gives her for
an almost continuous demonstration of the
actor’s art in the character of Lady Cecily,
one of G.B.S.’s sincerest feminine, portraits.
Lady Cecily is one of those English upper-
class women who are essentially self-con-
tained and mentally adventurous. She be-
lieves in believing in the best in everybody,
with the result that everybody produces the
best that is in him for her benefit. The
playwright provides nine men for her to
apply her method to. They include Captain
Brassbound, a white man gone bandit in
Morocco; Sir Howard Hallam, an English
Judge; assorted beachcombers,. Arabs and
sundries. An American warship is thrown
in to enable Lady Cecily to start a minor
revolution in naval domestic economy. An-
other point made by Shaw, is that people
usually believe the convention about their
emotions rather than the reality about them.
Thus Capt. Brassbound thinks that he loves
his mother because every good son loves his
mother, and that he hates his uncle be-
cause his uncle did his mother wrong. It
turns out in the end that he hates his
mother and likes his uncle. The play, though
realistic in intention, is curiously melodra-
matic and fantastic in action, and Dame
Sybil’s faultless performance of Lady Cecily
was the solidest ground in it.
¥ ¥ ¥
The doctrine of the survival of the fittest
applies to the operatic stage as well as else-
where. The only room. for difference of
opinion lies in the definition of the word
"fittest.” Dinosaurs were weightier and
stronger than racehorses but a dinosaur
would have no chance in a weight-for-age
handicap against a Phar Lap. If musical
fitness were the sole criterion in opera some
of Mozart’s works would have replaced the
tawdrier Italian operas dragged by the heels
into the present season at Melbourne Royal.
But an audience will put up with a lot of
bad music in return for some good melo-
drama, and it will suffer a lot of bad drama
in return for some good music. Gounods
“Faust,” which has long ousted Berlioz s
“Faust.” strikes a reasonably fair average.
The music is good to horrible; and the drama
is middling to monstrous. The Soldiers
Chorus survives only because it- has become
a traditional part of the performance. It
lias the same relationship to Valentine s in-
vocation of the Gross as a Scout yell to the
Magnificat. The love scene in the third
act has its languorous moments, but the last
act, in which Mephistopheles stuffs. I aust
down a coalsliute communicating with the
infernal regions while an angelic band of
three chorus ladies, standing on a piece ot
voile, convey Marquorite to Heaven, Would
have made a Bland Holt forswear the
theatre for ever and go in-.for stockbroking.
All was received in good part by a full
house on Saturday. The Valobra was a
sufficient reason for Faust signing his con-
tract with Old Nick, provided his musical
standards were not too exalted. Faust fitted
Montanari as a jug fits the head of a king,
but his singing was admirable. The local
Evelyn Hall was excellent as the aged
Martha. Marone’s Mephistopheles lacked
nothing but devil.
* * *
“II Trovatore,” performed at Melbourne
Royal last week, retains its appeal for play-
goers because of its brutal sensationalism
and its forceful, if obvious, emotionalism.
The packed house was only a little less em
thusiastic over the Leonora of Anna Surani
than it was over the Azucena of Bruna Cas-
tagna ; and both starters were beaten by. a
head in the Applause Stakes by Pedro Mir-
a.SsoU’s Manrico, who had good looks to
recommend him and legs that are not one
whit less well turned than his voice. The
entertainment is particularly generous in
rhe matter of scenery, the exterior of the
palace of Aliaferia qualifying Bertini Pressi
(Milan) and John Coleman and Leslie
Board (both of Australia) for the title of
theatrical A’s.R.A.
¥
No writer of crime-detection stories since
Pop has demonstrated ability to sift the
evidence in an actual case and come to
correct conclusions, and amateur detectives,
whether novelists or not, are not markedly
popular at any police headquarters with
which this Showman has ever been in touch.
But in fiction they continue to beat the
police in their own business. So successful
at this game was Wallace Porter, the hero
of “Whistling in the Dark,” the American
gangster comedy which opened at Sydney
Cri. on Saturday night, that the Chief of
Police in his town had presented him with
a gold watch. With a unique faith in this
marvel’s powers the local criminal organi-
sation captured Porter and held, him to
ransom —the ransom being plans and speci-
fications for an absolutely undetectable
manner of assassinating the Chief of Police.
The best Porter could think of was to put
poison in liis tooth-paste. Good comedies
have been built on slenderer and more time-
worn frameworks, but “Whistling in the
Dark” is not a good comedy. The Firm gives
it a very good cast —John Junior as the
novelist, Agnes Doyle as his sweetheart, Tal
Ordell as a gangster and Sadie Bedford as
a female associate of the criminals could
hardly be improved upon—but very much
better plots of the same genre are done very
much better on the cinema screen twenty
times a year. The musical garnishing, which
includes ‘items bv Glazonoff, Massenet, Tschai-
kowskv and Dvorak, played very nicely by
the theatre’s instrumental trio, belongs to
another world.
V V
The Community Players, under the gener-
al shin of Carrie Tennant, presented George
Kelly’s “The Torehbearers” at Sydney
Savoy last week. The play is an amusing
study of amateur actors and their little
wavs. The middle act depicts the players
behind the scenes at the Horticultural Hall
in a provincial town. Everything goes
wrong. The fiasco leads to the retire-
ment from theatricals of a wife whose
husband objected to her “making a fool
of herself,” and provides an opportunity
for a spirited defence of the Thespian enter-
prise by Miss Pampanelli, the leading spirit
among the players. Molly Kirwan, who
produced the piece, filled the role of Miss
Pampanelli with vigor. Inky Carpenter pre-
sented a faithful study of a demure wife
thrust into the limelight and Richard Dowse
was acceptable as her practical-minded
husband. Minor roles were fairly well
filled.
# # *
Dr. Mac Luker'.s bright little play “Dutch
Courage” was put on at the St. James
Hall by the Sydney Players’ Club on Satur-
day night. The company got laughs easily
from the witty dialogue. Edward Cavill
was adequate as Joseph Berwick the un-
successful builder, and Myrna Dickey was
admirable as his youngest daughter, Polly,
the Berwick family’s little ray of sunshine,
who finally captures the susceptible heart
of Ashley Martin (Jack Appleton).
* # *
Ashley Duke’s much-boomed “The Man
with a Load of Mischief” came to light in
Melbourne at the hands of the Little Theatre
co. at the Fawkner Kiosk last week. As
far as the performance went Carl Resch,
Irene Appleton, Mrs. George Bell, Margaret
Reid, Brett Randall and Hal Percy did ex-
cellently, especially Mrs, Bell and Miss Reid.
The play itself promotes reflections as to
the - intellects behind the intellectual drama
movement. Somebody must have given Mr.
Duke a brand-new fountain-pen, so he
thought he would write a play. As a philo-
sopher and observer of life he is the Vicki
Baum of the drama. When his play'begins
to get too like a genteel version of “Up In
Mabel’s Room” he restores the intellectual
atmosphere by sending a character to a win-
dow, where he apostrophises the grinning
SZIGETI AND CO.
Inset: Hugo Larsen, who brought the violinist to Australia.
At piano, Prince Magaloff; with fiddle, Szigeti.
hands offstage concerning the relationship
between his immortal soul and the dicky
birds. He has an exceptionally reliable
memory for Christmas-cracker mottoes, and
when these give out he draws without hesi-
tation on his own store of original wisdom.
A specimen: “Love is everywhere, yet the
inaggots thrive.”
* * *
“The Touch of Silk,” P.etty M. Davies’s
Australian drama, was revived last week at
Melbourne Princess. The running fire of
chuckles which saluted the first scene in
a millinery store in the Mallee was a testi-
monial to the sharp observation of character
which in this play takes the place of the
slapstick farce customarily masquerading as
comedy in local playwrighting. Lucy Ahon
repeated her success of four years ago as
Jeanne, the French girl, who is kind to a
Digger in Paris, subsequently marries him,
settles on a sheep farm, incurs the suspicion
of being light because French, and finally
accepts her spurious bad reputation as a
means of saving her husband from the gal-
lows It is the only sustained tragic role
in Australian dramatic literature, as far as
this Showman is aware, and Miss Ahon did
the playwright the service of never once
relaxing grip of it. Leslie Williams s shell-
shocked Digger was a remarkable bit of real-
ism, and as his mother Elizabeth Campkm
was consistently -the prey of the emotions
of maternal jealousy. Some of the others
fell short of the standard of the original
production, but not so far as to seriously
interfere with the play’s message. A. novelty
was Irma Janetzki’s staging, heavy, dark
curtains sparing the audience from contem-
plation of more of a struggling farmer’s
standard of living than was necessary.
The title-role in A. A. Milne’s “The Great
Broxopp,” staged by Doris Fitton’s Inde-
pendent Theatre Players at Sydney Sayoy
last week, is a fat part. Edward Howell
made good use of the many opportunities
offers and carried the show along without
much need for assistance. _ Broxopp, a ym
commercial artist, acquiring an interest in
an infants’ food, popularises the article witn
the sort of advertising to be expected in tne
circumstances. His own baby figures on tne
posters. Young Brox., grown to man-
hood, wants to marry a knight s dau„n-
ter, but the knight stipulates that before
that can happen old Brox., must go out ot
business and change his name. _ He does so.
becoming Mr. Chillingham. Swindled out ot
all his money by the knight he makes a fresh
start, but lacks courage. It is left to _ms
son to build up anew fortune with Chuling-
ham’s Cheese for Chickens. Therese Des-
mond, James Pratt, Jane Conolly and Alfred
Race gave capable support to the central
character. Doris Fitton produced the . play,
next to “A Circle of Chalk” her best achieve-
ment this year.
* * #
Note by Grandma, after visiting the Firm’s
latest songandance show: —
The Firm is at it again, as it was in my
childhood. How persistent are these revel-
lers behind the footlights, and how persistent
is the Firm in its endeavors never to let the
public down! And how persistently the public
lets the Firm down! And why ? Simply
because theatregoing people want .to see
some of their own thoughts theatricalised,
in the surroundings they are used to, not
to dwell on the amusements of their fore-
fathers. What an anthem it all is ! Pretty ?
Yes, but so much repetition that one is
drowned in it. True, they may be Australian
legs, those of Miss Amelia Growingpains and
Mr. Cyril Sissieson, but what a limited art!
Just the way it was done in my day and
that of your grandfather, my dears. And
what backcloths! So like the old ones. Per-
haps they are the old ones. So anxiously
gay and so excessively bright, they make my
eyes blink; and my eyes are as good as ever
they were. And the voices! Or are they
voices and not a noise made by some instru-
ment in the orchestra ? And the songs!
All about the same old subjects, sung in the
same sweet silly way. Yes, the music is
sometimes catchy, but so is influenza. And
the jokes! All old friends, I assure you.
Do you really like it, children? Or is-it
me, and not you, that the Firm thinks it is
entertaining? Well, tell them, my dears,
that if you haven’t grown up your grand-
mother has.
* #
Perth Repertory Club presented four one-
acters for a two-nights’ season. “St. Simeon
Stylites” was in no way remarkable; bur
Mrs Cox, Mrs. Alan Stubbs, Tom McGregor
and Phil Shappere did commendable work
in “Shanghai.” In “The Bride,” Mrs. McClin-
tock impersonated the almost-hysterical.
bride’s mother with dexterous restraint, and
as the bride and her ’maid Cecilia Brennan
and Gwenyth Ambrose were a nice-looking
pair. Of more substance was “King Lear’s
Wife,” by Gordon Bottomley. As the fear-
less Goneril, Dorothy Powell played with
great confidence. Joyce Fuller as Gormflaith
looked beautiful and acted with subtlety.
Noble Norwood was imposing as Lear, egoist
and bully, whose unwanted consort —Joyce
Mortlock —died gloomily. Kathleen Heaney
and Pat Hannah gave an impressive picture
of two diabolical old women. Costumes and
scenery exceeded expectations.
# jp-.o
A strong “Follies” Go. at Adelaide Royal
is doing so well that it has to extend its
season. A bright feature is a. series of anec-
dotes, played instead of being told, and with'
quick blackouts. Specially well acted is a
grim Chinese tragedy which ends in a leg-
pulling for the audience.
* * *
John Brownlee has been singing at Adel-
aide Town Hall. The range of his superb
baritone runs from Handel to Rachmaninoff,
or from the • most declamatory opera to the
tenderest ballad.
At the Sydney Repertory Theatre on Sat-
urday night a pei'formance of “Anna Chris-
tie” was made interesting by Scott Alex-
ander’s excellent character study of Chris.
Anna’s father, the life-like Mat Burke of
J. O. Harvey, and the very satisfactory
portrayal of Anna given by Marie Terry.
The Palette.
In liis show at the Sedon Galleries, Mel-
bourne, Percy Lindsay remains faithful to
a realistic attitude towards Nature which is
most attractive when least photographic and
most veracious when least literally con-
cerned with facts. One of the chief virtues
of Lindsay is that he uses paint as a means
to an end and not an end in itself, as more
pretentious artists do. Amongst the pic-
tures which get nearest to an impression
strongly seen and firmly held arc “Edge of
the Garden,” “Waterside Home” and “Joy-
ous Morn.”
Adelaide Art Gallery celebrates its jubilee
year by hanging in one room all the pictures
it started with, half a century back—about
30. Fairly famous are Johnstone’s “Evening
Shadows” and Tschaggeny’s horse-study of
a burning stable, but several of them have
been withdrawn of late years, as being not
up to standard. The lack of interest in
water-colors at that period is striking. There
are only three, all by John Gully.
J. S. Newmark has been displaying a show
of sculpture in mallee roots at the T. and G.
Buildings, Melbourne, of which local critics
speak highly. Most of it looks to presen 1
commentator like good firewood wasted. The
most effective is “Adam,” priced at l(Ml
guineas, but much of the impressiveness
seems due to the accidental eccentricities of
the medium. Mr. Newmark also works in
greenstone, bloodstone, flint and sunstone —
almost everything except gallstones. If the
aim of the artist is to depict what he sees,
it is foolish to employ a difficult medium
when an easy one is handy.
“F.S.”: Miss Helen Stewart warns fellow-
workers not to go to Paris, because Austra-
lian painters are having such a bad time
there that they are driven to making black-
and-white caricatures of foreign tourists to
keep the wolf from the door. I suggest thaT
they might be better off there than here.
There is just a chance that the Felton
Bequest purchaser might mistake one of
their pictures for an old master, or, through
not knowing the painting was by an Aus-
tralian, might buy it for the Melbourne
National Gallery. The most important
activity of the Felton Trustees since the
Depression began has been the purchase
abroad of a Iloppner for £3000. Exchange
will presumably add £750 or so to the pur-
chase price. H'oppner was not a great
painter, and better portraits than this one
are being executed in Australia. The Felton
doesn’t buy them, presumably because it is
afraid that it would be criticised for spending
money on artists when thousands of ordinary
people lack the bare necessities. But artists,
like other people, have to live, and there are
many in Melbourne who don’t know where
their next meal is to come from. The Felton
is now sitting tight on an accumulated .sur-
plus of £120,000.
“C.Q.” : A returned student says that Aus-
tralian artists are virtually (starving in
Paris. It won’t be for the first time. Long
before the Depresh Meldrum was one day con-
templating the outside of the Louvre ou an
empty stomach and completely in the dark
as to where his lunch was to come from. A
party of American tourists accosted hinvand
asked him if he was a guide. He said he
was, reflecting tfeib if he knew no more
about the tourist, attractions, of Paris than
they did. he knew a lot more interesting
things about the city. He took them on a
tour of the Old Masters and regaled them
with a dissertation on painting that wa*
quite unlike what they had read in Bae-
deker. Then he introduced them to enchant-
ing corners of the city he had himself ois-
covered. After a strenuous day they voted
him the most intelligent guide they had mm
in all their travels and gave him a slap-un
meal at an expensive cafe.
Poverty Point
“Kelby” : Sydney musician Frank Hut-
chens has reason to be proud ot the tact
that Benno Moiseiwitsch has examined his
latest composition “Toccata and found '
so much to his liking that he has played it
at two of his -concerts. - Benno ga\e Koj
Agnew’s compositions recognition ui
same way.
“Cauboy”: Much to the surprise of the
Taits, what appeared to them to be the mos
unlikely item in Dame- Thorndike s reper-
toire has turned out the most successful.
Announced as for two performances only, tin
“Medea"’ of Euripides had to be replaced m
the curriculum owing to imperious public ci
maud. On the other hand, thh.onc potboiler.
“Madame Plays Nap. was a failure. IfH
Sybil had provided a course of the bn ;
dramatist she might have created a fasl on
for classic drama at the King s, as Allan
Wilkie did when be turned to old &ngn sn _
comedies a few years ago at the same P *.
house. When that veteran histnon moved
into the theatre lie was unable to guarantee
the first week’s rent. lie ended by cleanm
£5000 li'is artistic faith, however, was i
conflict with the plain dictates of commercial
interest. He had promised to perform h
Shakspearian repertoire, and the end <>
season was not as the beginning.
“Norbell”: I was chatting to an old J. C;
Williamson man the other day about ui<
Thorndike Season. "Do yon notice on
striking thing about Dame Sybil, says J.
“Of course I do.” says he—;shut your eye ; .
and you are listening to Nellie Stewait.
That’s what struck me, too. Every intoiu
tion. every inflection of the voice even tin
kind of rich huskiness which is such
charm. The little catch in the voice in arc.'
moments, and, above all. the laugh an
cal This is particularly noticeable in UgM' 1
scenes, as in “Madame Plays Nap. J 1 *' 1 ’
of Nellie Stewart’s gestures also, and in 1
hurried little movements, are reproduced ">
Dame Sybil.


IF
you desire to reach that section of
the N.Z. public that moulds the buy-
ing habits of the rest;
IF
you have a message for New Zealand-
ers who have more money to spend
on more commodities than the many;
IF
your goal is a market with the maxi-
mum capacity to respond to your
advertising efforts, then cover the
Wellington Province, the highest in
spending power, by using the most
effective medium,
Cbe Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY.
Australian Representative:
W J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone; 85241.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking Ilous.'
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
There is an old adage
about cutting off your noses
it
3^
A
xt £mP
%
X r
I
A
Sr
Dear Fellow Citizens:
YOU will have noted, in the news columns, that
the Sugar Industry has some critics. They may be divided into three classes.
(1) The largest class, composed of those interested in the profits to be made by
importing black-grown sugar. A very dangerous class on which every Australian needs
to keep a watchful eye. . •
(2) A fairly extensive class, composed of those who talk and write without knowing
the facts; people who love to see their names in print, and who are careless and thought-
less about the damage they do.
(3) A small class, composed of earnest people in Southern States who want to see
the cost of everything Australian brought down to world-price levels. Many in this class
are perfectly sincere, but are without any constructive suggestions. 1 hey say (as Senator
Colebatch put it recently), "that it is no part of the task of those who urge a reduction
of the price of sugar to indicate how the industry should accommodate itself to sue
reduction.”
So they would let it enter on a stage of gradual decay, if not instant destruction. If the Sugar Indus-
try is eventually destroyed, what is going to happen to the trade between Queensland and the Southern
cities? We might give some thought to this point.
Now last year we Queenslanders imported £1 1,332,617 worth of products from the South, while you
Southerners bought only £9,314,658 worth from us, and of this sum two-thirds represented raw sugar,
which is refined in the Southern capital cities by Southern workmen. Are you going to destroy a large
part of your Queensland trade so that you may import black-grown sugar and so save your families
threepence a week each? Wouldn’t it be cutting off your noses to spite your faces? This is the pound,
shillings and pence aspect.
You must also consider the aspect that when the world price of raw sugar was around £9O a ton we
supplied you at £3O/6/8. We "didn’t squeal or make a fuss” to use Kipling s phrase. We accepted the
embargo on export as a duty we owed to the Commonwealth. Now, when foreign sugar is less than our
price, you have a duty to us. See that you allow no interested party to cause you to depart from that
duty.
Yours etc.,
THE SUGAR GROWERS.
inserted bu the.
Sugar Grouicrs of Australia
fov the. tfnJoirmation. of the S/eople
Write to the Australian Sugar Producers’ Association. Ltd., P.O. Box 608 J, Brisbane, or The Queensland Cane
Growers’ Council. P.O. Box 1032 N, Brisbane, for a copy of an interesting and informative book, entitled:
“The Australian Sugar Industry.”
R. S. M.
SHADOW SHOWS.
There is a good dramatic idea in "Pres-
tige,” at Sydney State, though it isn't
exactly new. Melvyn Douglas, as commandant
of a French penal settlement in lndo-China,
is worshipped by his servant, a faithful old
Sambo, who registers devotion by grinning
witlessly in all circumstances. Anne Harding
shares the simple blackamoor’s affectionate
grimacings when she arrives from Paris and
settles down as Douglas’s wife. Not so
Adolphe Menjou, who follows, and soon be-
trays a lawless passion for Anne. Her like
is being made intolerable by her husband’s
alcoholic ways. Menjou persuades her to
bolt with him and is murdered by the ser-
vant. Douglas has to decide between doing
his duty as an upholder of the white man’s
prestige, and sparing; the servant who has
saved his honor. This poignant situation is
immediately overlaid by a torrent of mush,
designed to stress the power of the Nordic
eye when brought into conflict with a drink-
maddened horde of natives, and the rever-
ence of all hands for the Flag. So the end
is bathos. As a production "Prestige” is
absurd. The uniforms are all wrong. Doug-
las wears his medals on a liner. Though
commandant, lie does a subaltern’s, if not an
n.c.o.’s job—falls in guards, calls them to
attention, and so on. The execution of a
bandit drives him to the bottle, a nervous
wreck —and he is supposed to have been
through the World War! It is hard to say
which scene is most preposterous. Perhaps
the one in which Douglas marries himself
to Anne, before a figure of Buddha, instead
of getting leave and having the job done in
Saigon. Perhaps it is Anne’s reception a!
the prison wharf by a bevy of sable wenches
in what appear to be bathing suits. Or.
again, it may be the grand finale, in which
Douglas strides through the, infuriated con-
victs and soldiers, slashing at them with his
whip; slashes a mutinous bugler into blow-
ing the “Fall-in” over and over again accel-
erando; rescues his wife from the licentious
convictry, and stands to attention before the
Flag with the stain of a bullet-wound show-
ing above his heart, while the cowed soldiers
shepherd the prisoners back to their chains.
Anne Harding—delightful to look at and
listen to. as usual—is wistful and clinging
and tender and all the rest of it; but one
pictures her salving her self-respect with a
few hearty laughs after some of the shots.
The same with Douglas, whose part (with
the Tricolor substituted for the Union Jack)
is a replica of scores in which the late Wil-
liam Terriss figured at the London Adelphi.
The tropical scenes are picturesque, the
photography is clever and the sound is excep-
tionally good.
Wheeler and Woolsey appear in “Loose
Nuts” in the first part. Woolsey is a cari-
cature of a blatant variety of U.S.A. go-
getter, which may account for his_ unpopu-
larity with the critics of his native land.
(Similarly, some Scots are sensitive about
Lauder). He wise-cracks at a terrific speed
in a raucous voice, hooting with toothy
mirth after each imbecility, anil never fails
to score with Sydney audiences. Edna May
Oliver, Stanley Fields, Boris Karloff and
other favorites are in the cast of this
elaborate farce.
* * #
The Sydney Regent screen is cluttered up
with corpses this week. In “The Wiser Sex,”
the means of extermination is the common
or gangster gat; in “The Honorable Mr.
Wong,” the butchery is conducted with hat-
chets. The first-named depicts what happens
to Melvyn Douglas when he sets out to sup-
press a gang of crooks. He draws first blood,
but the opposition, represented by poker-face
William Boyd and enticing Lilyan Tashman,
come back gamely, and after unsuccessfully
trying to run him down with a motor-truck
get him charged with murder. Claudette
Colbert, who is shown earlier in the picture
clearing off to Yurrup with a gigolo, returns
and declares her belief in the right-thinking
young man’s innocence. You can guess the
rest. Boyd’s unedifying career ends when a
revolver-barrage is put down on him by a
posse of detectives.-
The other one introduces Edward G. Rob-
inson as a Chinese. He is instructed by his
tong to bury his hatchet in the skull of a
rival tongster, and does so, thereby acquir-
ing deceased’s fortune and six-year-old daugh-
ter. It would lax the brain of an Einstein
to epitomise the insanities that follow. Suffice
it to say that human blood flows in torrents,
love triumphs and the hardware trade
(Axe. Department) gets a good advt. The
Chows are an unexpected lot; one of them
has a Glasgow accent.
.rtf ££
with one housemaid (screaming), one Scot-
land Yardman (spurious), one silly ass (really
a fearless and resourceful English gentle-
man) and one elderly female (who, when
the excitement has died down, awakes to
ask “Has anything happened?”) ; add Sus-
picions all round, which settle finally on the
innocuous-looking hero; season with gen-
erons sprinkling of Oxford accent. Serve
quickly (or it won’t hold together), to the
accompaniment at appropriate moments of
pem—pom—po-o-o-om ! pom '
on the bass fiddles. you have Vriplndin”
‘ The al yVic^hem^ Sw ’at Sydney
Haymarket. Lester Matthews has invented
a helicopter, and intends selling it to a
Foreign Power. But Patriotism, personified
bv Walter Piers, who pinches Wickham’s
foreign correspondence, and the heroic John
Longden triumphs. Not. however, before
Wickham has captured Eve Gray while
trying to got the Incriminating Papers to the
Foreign Office, and failing to find them on
her has left her to perish by drowning on a
rock. It’s a long time since we’ve seen a
heroine in this plight, and we enjoyed it, as
one does a renewed old.acquaintance. Eves
dog brings Mr, Longden to the rescue, which
should rope in some Ii.S.P.C.A. support.
“Say Bo”: Thring, of Efftee Films, will
shortly descend on London with three pro-
ductions of his studio—“ The Bloke.' "Dig-
gers” and “His Royal Highness.” The last
opus, written and set to music by comedian
George Wallace, only needs intelligent cut-
ting to make it as good a screen musicomedy
as one has seen. Thring might to be in a
good position financially. When he sold his
interests in Hoyt’s to Fox he stipulated that
the money should be paid to his account in
London.
“Cine Ma” : Thring, the Efftee man, who
does most of his own producing, was tramp-
ing up and down the studio at His Majesty’s,
Melbourne, in the throes of inspiration con-
cerning a new masterpiece, his hands behind
his back, his head in the air and the inevit-
able cigar raking imaginary stars. When
he is in this condition nobody dares speak
to him, though at ordinary times he is thy
most accessible of men. After he had pere-
grinated for some time and the staff had
waited patiently, photographer Higgins spoke
up. “Excuse me, Mr. Thring,” he said,
“we’re trying out this set and I’ve taken
three shot's and you’re in every one of them!”


If You Want Queensland Trade,
You Must Advertise in
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
This great Queensland daily, and its
companion journal, the “Sunday
Mail,’’ give a ' second-to-none
“cover” in the metropolitan area and
in country districts. Their popu-
larity is explained by their brightness
and the all-round excellence of their
news features. The strong circulation
position of both papers is revealed by
recently issued independently verified
audited certificates. Rate cards, etc.,
from
Robert Jackson,
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(’Phone: 81522.)
Plum Razor Guard
r
THE
Lasts
PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily
a lifetime. No blades to buy.
adjusted, fits fin., fin. and Jin.
3/- each, post free.
&/>e PLUM RAZOR
blades.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xvlo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case-
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/.
ALL POST FREE. '
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—jin. and jin.
Each
zor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
WOODS
GREAT
St
dttlNT
4? CURE
For Cougli 9, Colds,
and Influenza.
The Unrivalled Remedy
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
f on tains everything a woman needs to know.
ABORIGINALITIES
KEEP OFF THE GRASS.
“I believe she’s a grass widow!"
"That's all right—but don’t go imagining you are a lawn-mower.”
“N.A.W.”: In tlie bar we were talking
about rabbiting. Gravy Bullock, who is a
loan of ideas, submitted li'is original and con-
structive policy. "Don’t go wastin’ yer time
with ferrets or traps,” says Gravy. "Get
a crosscut saw and a couple of tikes. Yer
spot a round log and saw it through,
leavin’ a nice clean face on the end. Yer
roll the sawn-off bit of the log out of the
road, and then yer get a bit of charcoal off
of the log and draw a circle round the
smooth face on the end of it with the piece
of charcoal and fill it in nice and black.
Then yer set the tikes runnin’ round shakin’
the rabbits up. The rabbits wake up an’
dance for safety. They see the black circle
«m the end of the log, and tliinkin’ it’s their
flamin' burrow they dash up against it and
knock 'emselves silly. All a bloke’s gutter do
is to pick ’em up and skin 'em.”
“Yeriyitti”: Oodnadatta, once the king
-hanty-town of the S.A. North', head of the
line with 800 teams op the road, has faded
so nearly out of (xistcnce that when the last
pub was burned down a year ago it wasn't
deemed worth while to rebuild it. At the
hearing of a licensing-court case at Marr.ee
involving the question, a witness named
the keepers of boarding-houses at Oodnadatta.
“There’s Mrs. Jones,” lie said, “she hasn’t
anyone at present; she’s out working on
Macumba. There’s Ned Cheong, and there’s
Mrs. Wilson.” “Mrs. Wilson has a four-
roomed house and five children, and yet you
sai- she takes in boarders.” challenged cross-
examining counsel. “She did have one.”
said witness, reminiscently. “What hap-
pened to him?” “He's dead.”
❖ :J: * jj.
“G.D.S.”: That l>;r<lx build nests for
other reasons than bringing up a family I
proved when I found an old nest blown
from a tree on the road to Bradley’s Head,
Sydney. Woven neatly in with the usual
bits of grass and twigs was a strip of news-
paper. The print was still readable and
consisted of two words—“ Cavalier Club.”
“T.F.”: C. Waite, a Wellington (M.L.)
air pilot, was flying solo when he was
astounded, to see a ’possum appear above
tin; front cockpit. The. animal, which had
a young one in its pouch, made a frightened
leap for the lower wing of the ’plane, and
wa_s swept into space. Waite checked his
altitude and found he was flying at 1000 ft.
A farmer who had been watching saw the
possum falling and, “thinking it was a scarf,”
os he says, ran across the paddock to re-
cover it. He vyas amazed to see the “scarf”
spring into action and run up a tree. The
animal was caught and photographed:
neither It nor its young one appeared
any the worse for its fall. That reference
to a scarf” explains the matter. The
possum s fur is designed to spread out and
carry some of liis weight in the air.
Hamer”: City conditions produce some
strange contortions of Nature. About
Sydney;s central railway station and else-
where trees which normally should shed all
their leaves in winter present a curiously
piebald appearance when they stand iii
proximity to an electric-light standard.
Beluded into the belief that it is still summer
on the side upon which the influence of the
lght is felt, the trees on that side preserve
their foliage. It is always on that side,
too, that the spring buds make their appear-
ance earliest The processes which produced
the ornate flutmgs of the Jenolan Caves
can also be seen at work under the big
arches of the station in Eddy-avenue. All
along the ceiling the water has broken
titeis * m aces ' Arming miniature stalac-
* * * *
Her Jong ; “Kopt’s" scheme for dealing
$?' lke - y L r aidl r,S . tium crops (B.
o 2) might be all right for marmosets
and the like. The
monkeys I wrote
of were the dog-
faced baboons, as
large as, and even
more formidable
than, an Austra-
1i a n eattledog.
These chaps, sup-
posing they were
fools enough to
be taken in by
the melon trick,
are quite capable
of walking off at
their ease with
the biggest melon
ever grown. One
method of scaring
dor babiaan away
which was popu-
lar with Boer
farmers of my
day was success-
ful, if hideously
cruel. A captured
b aboon was
skinned and freed
to rejoin his
nfates in the
kloofs. He didn’t
live long, of
course, but long enough to cause a complete
evacuation of that part of the country bv
the baboon population.
❖ ...
Nakh ; I helped to take a census which
was about the cheapest on record. It
was in British Malaya, and my sector
was a small island off the coast of Borneo.
All the white population was circular-
ised with an invitation to assist the Gov-
ernment without pay. At midnight on
the fatal night all the 7000-odd inhabi-
tants of the island w r ere supposed to be in
their homes. It was a wild and stormy
night—the wet monsoon had set in. L
tramped five miles is .’riwith a tally clerk
named Bobjee, a del'*', .old Indian. The first
THEY REPUDIATIONISTS.
“Are the cows paying all right, Mr. Pendennis?”
“Some be, 'n' some bain’t.”
"How interesting! And which are not?"
“They two-laigged ones, Maister.”
house we attacked stood on stilts in the
midst of some cocoanuts. We waited under
umbrellas at the foot of a shaky ladder and
shouted to the inmates to let us in. There
was no reply. We went under the house
and banged on the floor. Murmurs arose
inside and Bobjee stated our errand in
Malay, Tamil and bits of various local
dialects. Finally the door wa.s cautiously
opened and a semi-naked savage, armed
with a gigantic knife, came out and
sat on the top step. Age? He scratched
Ins head. Seven. We took a careful look
at him and put it down as 32. Religion?
A long discussion ensued in which were men-
tioned the sun, the moon, the stars, the
tides and other natural phenomena. We
Put him down as Pagan, thus linking him
up with the ancient Greeks. Wives? One.
Children? Six. Occupation? No answer.
What was he doing? An anxious look came
into his eyes,, and he broke into a long- ex-
planation which was so shot through with
words in an unknown dialect that Bobjee
could not make head nor tail of it. We
put him down as an agriculturist. Then
we passed on. Next morning our shaggy
friend called on the police inspector and
asked him what the Komp'eni (the Govern-
ment) was going to do about it? About what?
asked the P.I. About him. TJsop, being
found in the house of Awang, the bullock-
driver, when Awang was away in Borneo.
“Jenny Lintott” : Through that wild part
Aortli YY ostralia on the fringe of which
Bertram and Ivlausemsnn were rescued, a man
escorted two white women 30. years ago,
down from Wyndham through the Duraek
and Leopold Ranges to the Fitzroy. Few
have crossed it since, except the surveyors
who named a river in his honor. His name
was Chapman, and with horses overlanded
from Alice Springs he found work on the
East Kimberley stations. Bringing in three
horses for the Wyndham races, he stayed at a
shanty at the Three-mile, and fell in love witii
the landlord’s daughter. The father, an old
German, refused to entertain him as a suitor,
even after lie had won the cup and presented
the ladies’ bracelet to the girl. The young
couple decided to elope after the dance, and
were just ready to leave when the girl’s
mother discovered the scheme. She became a
party to it on condition that she should
come, too. They took some provisions in
the packs, and set out through a great gap
in the Cockburn Ranges visible from Wvnd-
ham. travelling over virgin country for' six-
weeks to Fossil Downs. The party, obvi-
ously a peaceful one, found the wild blacks
very friendly, helping- with water and show-
ing them where to find bush tucker when
their own gave ont. From Fossil Downs
the little procession went on down to Nulla-
gme and the lower goldfields. The man and
the mother are both dead, but the girl hr
the case lives in Perth to-day. The anti-
climax to the story is that, after her roman-
tic elopement, she changed her mind and
/Harried somebody else.
* A * *
“ELS;”; There is a lot of quaint history
behind some of the place names on the Aus-
tralian map. Durrumboi Mat (Q.), for
instance, perpetuates the memory of James
Davis, who escaped from Moreton Bay Settle-
ment in the bad old days, and lived for 14
years with the tribe that circulated around
Mount Bauple. On account of his small
stature the blacks named him Durrumboi.
lie_ adopted their life wholeheartedly, fighting
valiantly in their wars. In one skirmish
he was speared through the leg, in another
he was lamed by a cut across the knee with
a boomerang, and he had other battle scars
about him when he returned to Brisbane.
In the interval lie had almost forgotten his
own language, but he could talk the Binglii
lingo fluently, and often dropped into that
when lie became a business man, wherefore
he was labelled Yabbering Jimmy! He made
a start as a blacksmith, liis father’s trade,
but later opened a crockery shop in Georgo-
street. Brisbane, where, for a reclaimed wild
man. lie flourished amazingly. When he died
he was worth £lO,OOO, most of which he left
to an old maid.
* * * *
“Hornby”: Somnambulism is rare amongst
bushmeiq and the case of old Jan Olsen, a
‘ whalin' of the Barwon in my boyhood days,
ivas abnormal. Jan would camp fpr a fort-
night or so at each town lie came to, making
a living by selling fish. His malady had
such a grip on him that he used frequently
to rise in his sleep, do the round of thirty-
odd hand-lines, place any catch in a netted
box in the water, re-set the .lines and
return to bed, with no recollection of the
performance. In the mornings his first visit
was always to the cage to ascertain wli'at
luck he had had during the night. At Wal-
.gett, where I knew him, the banks of the
Barwon were very steep, yet he never had
a mishap.
* * * *
'7‘bbn.” ; Two farmers returning to Kal-
annie (W .A.) from Perth —the road runs
beside the railway—had a queer experience.
'-” le °* the front wheels, of their car came
oft, and the car turned over without much
damage either to itself or Its occupants. A
goods train travelling alongside stopped, and
tlm guard came from the other side of the
tram with the wheel. It had jumped the
fence, passed between two trucks, discon-
nected the. air hose and thus applied the
brakes, which stopped the train.
LINES TO TIIE COLNCIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
('o-scribblers all, if in these truthful pages
>S.>me par. of mine has maybe made you
gi'in,
Take it from me, it partially assuages
My pangs for those that entrance failed
to win.
And if at times some blunder gave you,
brothers,
-Fair chance to pull to pieces my mistake,
You did it well—as faithfully as others
Marked for their own the slip that you
might make.
Some search for gold, in dusty wavs or
muddy,
O’er scorching plains or misty hills afar;
We seek, instead, the scrap of nature study
That makes a jingling rhyme or snappy
par.
That is our gold; how carefully we trace
it!
Then send it to the analyst to see
What his opinion is, and if he’ll place it
In print or in the w.p.b.
And now and then our dinkum metal, stand-
ing
The editorial and the acid test,
('onies forth as gold, and finishes by landing
A very welcome trifle of the best.
TASMANIA.
BRADY'S LOOKOUT.


USE MORE WOOL
By Wearing
PURE WOOL TIES
85 per cent, of the Tie Materials im-
ported to Australia come from Austria,
Italy or Switzerland. Now r Australian
- manufacturers have created Ties made
of Pure Wool. Support Australian In-
dustry by wearing one. These Ties are
extremely fashionable, they will not
crease so readily and are woven in
very smart colors. Write, enclosing
your order, but leave the selection
to us.
1-Piece Plaited Wool . . 5/-
Broad-end shape 5/6
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
And Longreach, Toowoomba and Townsville.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
n/lonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridg.es
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. •• .. .. .. .. .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 .. £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
■world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London.
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
“Waranbini”: The price that 1 get
for maize these times reminds me of my
farming experiences when I was a boy. Most
of u-s were on scrub lands, and our farming
implements were axes, brushhooks and hoes.
After we felled and burnt off the dense vege-
tation the ground would be so thickly
strewn with charred logs and stumps and
so matted with roots that a plough was im-
possible. Every stool was planted with a
iioe—and guarded at night from bandicoots.
How I hated bandicoots! I ate them, too.
Then the whole field had to be chipped over
a couple of times. Later on wallabies
attacked the young corn, wherefore we had
wallaby Sunday on different farms, turn
about.' Later still, cockatoos and parrots
swarmed on to it. I sometimes go chasing
them in my sleep yet. When pulled, the
cobs had to be carried in bags over the log
entanglements to a cleared road, thence
drawn on a slide to the barn. Husking w r as
done at night—a freezing job till 11 p.m.
Then came days of threshing with a hand
THE THREAT.
"And I'm goin’ to ask Santa Claus to bring me another nurse for Christmas. I don't
like you!”
machine, .more humping and sledging, and
finally shipping in the little river boat. Then
we got os. to 10s. a bag for the harvest.
Ilalf-a-crown a bushel was riches.
“G.G.G”: Let me sympathise "with
“Maluka” over his catalogue of a Central
Australian station storekeeper’s woes (B.
27/7/’32). Trouble of the kind is not un-
known on stations in
supposedly more civil-
ised locations. Worst
cause of worry is
the dispensing of medi-
cal advice and the “ex-
hibition” as a remedy
of one or another of
the numerous brands
of pills or patent medi-
cines that used to be
stocked in every out-
back station store. If
rlie remedy doesn’t
cu r e th e “book-
keeper” is blamed. I
had one patient who
took his cheque and
departed for another
station because ours
didn’t stock a particu-
lar brand of pill which
lie favored. Then there
was the type that
was always coming
back growling for some-
thing else; “th" larst
lot did me no good.”
One day a boundary-
rider brought in some
fresh rabbit pellets
which announced to
me the coming of the
first rabbits to that
part of Queensland.
Though an experienced
bushman, lie had no
idea what they were,
so an idea occurred to
me. Putting the pellets
in a new pillbox, I
shook them up with
some baking powder
and waited for the
next visit of the nark.
Handing him the box,
I described it as the
very latest article on
the market —as indeed
it was. Next day lie was back. “By cripes,’’
he said, “them pills is tli’ dinkum stuff at
larst; gimme a dozen boxes!”
* * * *
“Barangkali” : They breed wiser mdnkeys in
Malaya than those ones mentioned
by “Ivopt” (B. 20/7/’o2). When I occupied
a bungalow in the Penang hills the monkeys
would swing over the trees to the
rail of my balcony, hop over to the
table, and in a second pinch cigarettes
or food, chattering _in ecstasy at their
cleverness. It was tlie custom lor my boy
to carry my breakfast to the verandah and
then wake me, and on three consecutive morn-
ings the monkeys beat me to it. For the
fourth morning I prepared a dozen bananas
liberally doctored with mustard. A minute
after the bait was put out the invasion
THE UNPOPULAR WOODHEAP.
BOSS: “You haven't got much wood cut, Jacky.”
JACKY: "No, by cripe, boss; this pinny crosscut too bloomin' short."
began, and 1 arrived on the balcony just
in time to hear the monkeys’ screams of
dismay. For five minutes the tree was
covered with living Catlierine-wheels. but,
despite this warning, my breakfast tray was
rifled next morning. Getting a heavy water-
bottle, I made it secure to the table leg with
a stout piece of twine and half-filled it with
pieces of durian and mangosteen. My trap
laid, I retired to the shelter of the door
shutters armed with a heavy stick. The
first monkey to arrive was an old be-
wkiskered fellow who appeared to be the
leader of the gang. His little fist shot into
the neck of the jug and closed quickly
around a portion of mangosteen, but he
couldn’t get his fist out. Whiskers let
go, and, withdrawing his arm, picked the
bottle up and inspected it from all angles,
paying rather particular attention to the
twine. In again went his hand, but with
no better result; the bottle was again lifted,
and with the clenched fist inside was again
inspected. Suddenly a gleam of intelligence
flashed across that cunning simian face, and
before I could get out of the door there was
a sharp crash, the bottle lay in fragments
and old Whiskers was flying on the topmost
branch of the tree triumphantly flourishing
a large slice of durian. That afternoon I
went to Penang and bought a shotgun.
•!* v sjs
“Wailani”: One little sleiglit-of-hand at
which nothing can beat the lubra is the trick
of the yaridy. With a coolainon or a coil of
tin and a flexible rhythm of the wrists that
sets the grains in it dancing, Rosie will
quickly winnow ants’ eggs from dust to find
a meal for herself. In North Westralia
I have seen a station-owner deliberately mix
up tea, sugar and sand, to have it yandied
out into three distinct heaps, untouched by
the hand, in the space of five minutes. At
Moolyolla, all that is left of a once-profitable
tinfield up near Marble Bar, a large
camp of blacks gets its living by thus sepa-
rating tin from the creek-bed gravel and
selling it by the bag. For some reason
the boys at. this game can never pull down
the store-credit that their lubras do. At the
abandoned tinmine you may see a mechani-
cal yandy imported from TJ.S.A. at a cost of
£2OOO. It never proved half so efficient as
those fluttering black hands.
“Gidya”: Recently while riding through
a clump of gidya on the Maranoa (Q.) I was
startled by a wliip-like crack, and something
thudded into a tree. The concussion made
my nag start, and I noted some small object
rebound from the tree and fall. It proved
to be the shell of a large black beetle, about
one inch in length. This outer case was per-
fect in outline, but there were no members
attached nor any apparent orifices for mouth,
eyes, etc. How it derived the velocity with
which it flew through the air puzzled me. so
I broke open tlie shell, and there was dis-
closed a perfect replica of the outer covering.
save that the miniature was a perfectly
formed beetle, with all his legs and very
much alive. As the shell resisted my first
efforts to crack it, it seemed that the encased
gentleman would have experienced some diffi-
culty in eating his way out of house and
home. Can any member of the council en-
lighten me as to the nature and species and
propellant?
* & :j: *
“Homfrey Beale”: Let London and New
York tremble. The natives of Papua have
gone off the fish-hook standard. The defec-
tion is due, not to the dearth of fish-hooks,
but to over-supply. Not so -many years ago
the heart of the most intractable Papuan,
male or female, could be won for a fish-
hook, while a present of half-a-dozen made
a life friend of the recipient, who became
an object of respect and envy in his village.
Fish-hooks were valued even above toma
hawks. That was in the coastal districts.
In the inland parts, where the hooks only
occasionally percolated through in the course
of trading, murder has been done l for them,
and they even displaced the once supreme
tola (arm-shell) as a basis for currency. At
the zenith of its currency cai*eer a fish-hook
was worth eleven tolas. The recent in-
vasion of prospectors and others all with
huge packages of fish-hooks lias caused the
financial debacle.
“Peu”: That par. about the closely-
guarded secrets of the Maoriland sacred axes
(B. 27/7/’32) reminds me that Papua can
boast a legend of the same sort which is at
least based on fact. In the mid-’nineties Green,
a British New Guinea magistrate—Papua as
a title for the territory was as then unborn
—was murdered with his native police while
engaged in laying out a new station at
Tamata, on the Mamba River*. Green is
said to have been cut down with his own
axe. All the bodies were divided up among
the native villages which took part in the
victory, and were eaten, while the tools and
other spoil from the Government party were
also distributed. Much of the stuff was
recovered by Sir William Macgregor in the
subsequent punitive expedition, but. Green's
axe was missing, and to my knowledge has
been so to this day. The legend was that
this axe, with Green’s skull attached, was
taken over to the Gira River country and
there secreted as a powerful “medicine.”
For years after every new official made it
a point of honor to comb that district in
an endeavor to recover the trophy, but none
that I heard of was ever successful, the
natives —who were always ready to admit it
was somewhere in the countryside—mvari-
ably declaring that some other village than
theirs had inside information on the subject.
BIRDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
■ "Several species of Australian birds have gone,
never to return.” —Sydney -‘Daily Telegraph
The item sent me to a book-lined cupboard
To delve in local ornithologies.
Tis true, I find. We’ve lost the noisy
scrub-bird
Since Phillip landed here from overseas.
And the. black-throated coachwhip’s ringing
cracks
Are heard no more upon our bushland tracks.
Where are they gone, the quaint and tiny
emus
Once found upon the Isle of Kangaroo?
Ask of the winds. Interrogate the seamews.
Nor they nor anyone can answer you.
One with the dodo, with the moa linked,
Among the breeds evanished and extinct.
And where —it’s just another bootless query
Is the night parrot of the spinifex?
Merged in the void, lost in the shadows
dreary,
Become an unknown quantity (like x).
Once he was with us, not so long ago.
And now he isn’t —that is all we know.
Doesn’t it sadden you a trifle, brother.
The final passing of these feathered things?
And, while we’re on the subject, there’s
another
Fowl looks alarmingly like taking wings.
And will he, too, be lost to us anon.
That once so bravely darted hither and yon?
Where in the dickens lias the oof-bird gone?
N.S.W. .
MIDFORD.


“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
FOR AUGUST,
NOW ON SALE.
Millions of pounds have been
invested in forestry.
What returns are bondholders likely
to get?
Ottawa and the Market.
Should Drices be raised to
1928 levels?
These and many other questions of
vital interest to investors are dis-
cussed in the August issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEPv ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1803. Established 1872
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan Esq •
F. E. Lcxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G ’ ** ’
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne Svdnev and Qfi
branches m Queensland and Northern Rivers, N S. Wales, also ren/e’sentation
.roujrh he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and (he World this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking busirS
eA*
X
Now in its 91st Year
‘The Examiner” is still the trusted Friend of the Family in
Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in Tasmania,
and is the acknowledged Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd..
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
, Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Sti'eet, Melbourne.
(Opp. Railway Station),
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms :: 200 Baths
iTli
pi
i n
£ i
*! i&J
m
i mtw
If
* t; -
■i;V
y
Melbourne’s Mast Modern Hotel.
Kates per day:
Room and meals from ' 22/C
Room and Breakfast from 12/C
SMOKE-OH!
REMORSE.
// very nearly drives me mad
When of my bygone sins I think!
Oh, that I’d saved the wealth I had
Instead of spending it on drink!
Relentless Time has lined my brow
And Fortune has been foul to me:
Oh, if I had that money now-
Wouldn't I have a roaring spree!
* *
"I simply accepted his attentions in order to dis-
courage the other young man.” — Melbourne witness.
A wooer to end wooer, »s the saying - goes.
* *
‘•‘William is' the most popular name in Australia.”
— ‘‘Sun.”
And the most detested, oddly enough, when
encountered in the form of its diminutive,
mu.
¥ *
HOISTING THE BLUE PETER.
“Peter was reprimanded. He disappeared and the
cash register was found to be short.”
His pride by chiding words was hit,
And, Peter, without doubt.
Tickled the Peter up a bit —
Then Peter petered out.
SUITING THE SAVED.
“Heaven will not be a place of idleness. All will
have suitable work to do.”— Revelation by Sydney
cleric.
Lawyers will presumably investigate
claims for admission and decide which are
feasible, plumbers will repair sinks of
iniquity, and watchmakers attend to the
watches angels keep. Tram-conductors ought
to do useful work collecting the angels bright
and fare, while stationers look after the
heavenly quires, and bookmakers lay on the
fields of Asphodel. As for women they will
still be mainly concerned with the hymns.
H. M.
H- *
“The ancient Romans pardoned her —but for this
leniency she would have been hurled from the
Typean Rock.” — “S. M. Herald.”
So called, of course, because Tarpeia did
her typing on it.
THE “BLURB” TELLS ALL.
When informed by our representative that
lie had won first prize in the Umptieth Lot-
tery, Adam Ardnutt, of Pickle-street, Surry
Hills, said: “No, I 'aven’t been ou the dole
for two and a half years, and I ain’t goin’
to realise a cherished, life-long ambition to
buy an ’ome for the wife; nor am I goin’
to assist needy relatives and invest the re-
mainder. Me wife’s done a bunk, thank
Gawd! Blast all me relations, and I’m
CHAP (keen): “Radio programmes are very
disappointing, don’t you think?”
GIRL (tired): ‘‘Very. When the announcer
said good-night a while ago I—I thought
for a moment it was somebody else.”
goin’ ter ’ave a damn good time with the
cash up at the pub. Now nick orf!”
Readers of the “Blurb” will notice
throughout this issue many phrases dealing
with the nolitical situation, such as: “It is
stated in Ministerial circles,” “A prominent
TJ.A.P. official declared,” “Trades H'all
opinion inclines to the view.” “A high
(Government official lias stated." etc. These
are used to cover up our lack of informa-
tion on the subjects concerned. The alleged
rumors were coined, one and all, at the
news editor’s desk.
Our circulation figures, it will be noticed,
are not now published. Readers will give
the directors credit for sufficient sense in
SARAH (watching famous ‘pianist. ): "Hasn't he wonderful control of his fingers?”
DAD: “Yairs. He oughter make a boriser milker with a bit of practice.”
suppressing what would be after all a pain-
ful shock to our dwindling army of adver-
tisers.
The accompanying three-col. photo, (de-
scribed. at her request, as a “Charming
study of the well-known society beauty and
charity worker”) of Mrs. Agatha Arddial,
interests neither us nor approximately 99
per cent, of our readers. However, it helps
to fill up the Society Page, which is going
a bit flat. The photo., incidentally, was
taken prior to the lady's marriage 27 years
ago, and does her justice—with mercy.
S. W. K.
* *
MORE FAMOUS IMPORTATIONS.
Hon. 11. D. Smackanstoush, in his en-
deavors to bring the fighting game back to
its pre-war level, is sparing no expense.
After extensive negotiations with Hollywood
he is in a position to offer the
following fistic attractions for
Snturday-week come Whitsun-
tide :—-
Phantom of the Opera v. the
Hunchback of Notre Dame.
Two Parisian lads who are
always willing to mix it. The
Phantom (otherwise known as
the Gazebo from Gaul) may be
slightly more scientific than his
youthful opponent, hut the
Cathedral Slugger’s weight and
strength may turn the tide in
his favor.
So much for the prelim, boys.
The main event of the evening
will he a 15-rounder between
the heavies
Frankenstein's Monster
and Mr. Hyde
(The Murderous Madman).
Never before have two . such
battlers met in a ring. Both
have undefeated records. “Rig-
Boy,” as the Monster is affec-
tionately called by his many
fans, is, of course, heavier than
I ooth.v Hyde, but the latter’s right-
ann jab with a champagne-bottle broken at
rite base is lethal provided it connects. This
tight looks like being the goods. If Hyde
can land one of his bottle-necks to either
eye. he should win. Again, should the Mon-
ster secure a neck-hold the fight will be
his*.
The winner will be matched with Count
Dracula for the Bloodweight Championship
of the World!
The Management guarantees an evening of
good, clean sport, in the course of which,
literally, anything may happen to the com-
batants, the boys in the press seats or the
referee.
J. J.
LAMENT, 1982.
“I am heir of all the ages"
This, alas! I know is true;
One vast- loan my heritage is,
And the interest is due!
P.
How about changing the name to Round-
Babel Conferences?
POINTS FOR NEW STATERS.
Make your constitution as obscure as pos-
sible. This will attract a good class of
lawyer to your territory. To attract other
professional men a little stunting is per-
missible. Thus a well-advertised epidemic
and an acute financial crisis in the early
days will attract the cream of the medical
and money-lending professions.
No new State can, of course, survive with-
out a lottery, and this should be one of the
first matters attended to by the fathers of
the constitution. A good way to select your
first legislature would be,to offer Parliamen-
tary seats instead of cash prizes in the first
lottery.
In considering the site of your capital,
follow traditional lines by building a new
city in the most inaccessible place you can
think of.
Build to a definite plan. In the middle
construct your main racecourse. Around
this civic centre group your lottery office,
stadium, divorce and bankruptcy courts.
Trades Hall, abattoirs, Parliament House,
etc., etc., leaving space for further race-
courses—pony, tin-hare, and so on—as the
need arises.
This should be done on loan money and
entered up in the accounts as “reproductive
works.” Let your capital be the means of
giving you the hall-mark of an up-to-date
State —the makings of a first-class deficit.
Never let it be said by posterity that tin-
head of your State went to his first Pre-
miers' Conference and had to shamefacedly
admit that he had a surplus, and duller
want a couple of millions from the Com-
monwealth Bank.
A. NT!ITS OVoiTEN.
* *
THE PIONEERS.
“They can say what they like about that
apple episode. Eve, old dear, but future
generations will have to give us credit for
one useful innovation.”
“What do you mean, Adam?” And she
looked back sadly at the locked front gate of
Eden.
“We are now,” and he strode zestfully
forward, “engaging in the first hike in the
history of Creation.”
* *
The Spirit of Empire is having Otta-
water mixed with it.
* *
DRINKING SONG.
Now strikes the hour that doth a curse
Upon my spirit fix!
Oh, Time! roll hack the universe
And make it fire to six!
T. W.N.
* *
WORSE AND WORSE.
Time alters everything. Years ago, every
baldhead m the orchestra-stalls had a wink
for the chorus girls. Now that the talkies
have established themselves, the old chaps
lean back in their stalls and indulge in
forty winks!
P. O. M. C.
Nudists are an even-tempered lot: ant-
how, they never feel shirty.
* *
“Respondent left home in 1829.”—' M. Herald'-’’
The young Rip-Van Winkle!
POLITICS AND SPORT.
Who can fairly say that politics and'sport'
don t mix? Take cricket. Here we find that
politicians are invariably on a good
Wicket, and, though often Bowled Out arc
rarely Stumped for an alibi. Any Slips ’they
make l they quickly Cover up. Though they
Dig In. the time comes when the public
realises it hast picked a Wrong-TJn • then
they are Thrown Out.. To Catch the oppos-
ing party on some Silly Point or H’it-it-fo-
Leg is their chief objective. They don't
believe in Cuts —in their own salaries—
and can always be depended on to Pitch n
good tale.
At football the Goal of every politician
<>f course, is. his-Pass, while a Free wili
always see him Try his hardest. Full of
Bounce, he will always be found in the
Front Row.
There seems little in common between swim-
ming and politics, until one recalls that the
former encourages the Crawl in the latter.
Also the Freestyle, in any form of amuse-
ment. has an irresistible attraction for any
politician.
In bowls —but. then, bowls .isn’t a sport
so much as a disease. As for golf—well,
anyway, what politician likes Putting? It
hasn’t half the fascination of Taking!
S. W. K.
* *
EVOLUTION OF A PROSPECTOR.
Ilis pick and shovel idle He;
His delving days arc passed;
Since he old-gold began to buy
A fortune he’s amassed.
P.
* *
“The caste presenting the comedy was a strung
one."
And we’ve known plenty more that would
be strung too if they had their deserts.
* ¥
“Lieutenant Frank Lunch and his wife plan a
non-stop flight from Australia to England.”—''Sun.”
One of those quick-Lunch affairs.
* *
FAMOUS LIES.
“Pleased to meet you.”
“No trouble at all.”
“Yours sincerely.”
“Ready in a jiffy.”
“The.editor regrets.”
“It’s just as good.”
“The biggest show on earth.”
, 0. w. w.
* 4
“The new bride told hubby if he came home late
once more she would lock him out.”
He cam* 1 home at 3.30 next morning and
locked her out.
GIRL STUDENT: “McTavisli has quite a gift
for this sort of work, hasn't he?”
BROTHER-ARTIST: “If Mac has it, it’s quite
a gift.”
“Scientists say that wireless waves reach as far
as the planet Mars and are forthwith hurled back
to earth again.”
Yet there are sceptics who doubt the
intellectual endowments of the Martians!
¥ H-
NEW INVENTION.
A bomb that looked like a meringue
Wa-s made by a Communist gingne
At a TI.A.P » banquet,
A. Stercnsite sank it,
And it blew him to bits with a bingue!
P.


9
2ffeu n ,
A
iiiili
Ten seconds
to strop.
Ten seconds
to clean.
The VALET
Razor Strop & Blade form
the PERFECT SHAVING
PARTNERSHIP
Perfect shaving. Quicker
shaving. More economical
shaving. That’s what the
“VALET” self-stropping
razor means to you. Save
time, save money. Shave
with a “VALET.”
British Made —of all dealers
Sets from 5/- to 65/-
“VALET”
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australia ; —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIMITED,
181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
a
ffZL
W
m
m
m.
'U
m
m
JStf
Br'
V
«
I
■
n
1
■
f'H
Si
r
SPARKLiMG
HARxrrs
SPARJK.LIJVG
Abridged Prospectus
Australian National Shale Oil Co. Ltd.
To be registered under the Companies Act, Victoria, 1928.
(Full Prospectus available on application.)
CAPITAL—£SOO,OOO in 500,000 Shares of £1 each.
200,000 8% Cumulative Participating Preferred Ordinary Shares are offered
for public subscription, payable 2/- per share on application, 2/- on
allotment, and the balance in calls as and when required, not exceed-
ing 2/- per share per month.
100,000 Ordinary Shares, issued to the vendors.
200,000 Ordinary Shares are to be held in reserve.
DIRECTORS:
MR. ROBERT AMBROSE TREGANOWAN, Managing Director of Messrs. Ramsay
and Treganowan, Ltd., Oil Refiners apd Distributors, Melbourne (Chairman).
MR. CECIL OSBERT CHAMBERS, Managing Director, Melbourne, Victoria-
member of the Shale Oil Investigation Committee.
(Two others to be appointed, representing the Preferred Ordinary Shareholders.)
TECHNICAL CONSULTANTS AND EXECUTIVES:
MR. 11. W. GEPP —late Chairman of Commonwealth Development and Migration
Commission, ete.; member of Shale Oil Investigation Committee, etc.
MR. I. R. LIGHTNER, B.Sc.—member of American Petroleum Institute; late of
Pan-American Oil Co. Research Laboratories; late Superintendent of Refineries,
Gilmore Oil Co., California, TJ.S.A.
MR. H. C. BAILEY, M.V.I.E. —late Engineer, Water Supply Installation in
Palestine for British Government, etc.
MR. DAVID DOW—late Works Manager, Ross Bros., Linlithgow, Scotland,
Retorters and Oil Refiners.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. SECOMB and WOODFULL. Chancery Lane, Melbourne.
Messrs. NORTON SMITH & CO., 39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
MR. H. B. SIMS, A.1.C.A., 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
MR. J. A. 11. TERRILL, Chartered Accountant (Aust.), of Messrs. Starkey and
Starkey, The Grace Building, 77 York Street, Sydney.
BANKERS:
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH and AUSTRALIAN BANK, LIMITED.
BROKERS:
Members of recognised Stock Exchanges of Australia.
REGISTERED OFFICES:
Chancery House, 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
The Grace Building, 77 York Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
OBJECTS.
(1) To develop the existing leases, and the extensive plant, railways, rolling slock at
Newnes, N.B.W.
(2) To instal a modern Cracking Unit (over 2000 of which are already in use in
America), making possible the recovery of approximately 05 p.c. motor spirit from
the crude shale oil, thus entirely revolutionising the shale oil industry of Aus-
tralia.
(3) To complete the works as a modern shale oil recovery and refining plant, and
produce motor spirit and other petroleum products.
(4) To open up new oil shale fields already proved.
UNDERTAKING WITH THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
The following undertaking has been given to the Commonwealth Government
on behalf of the Company:—-
“That no action or question or decision relating to any proposed sale or
mortgage or other disposition of the Company’s business or assets or any part
thereof shall be taken, determined or made without the consent of the
Commonwealth of Australia.’’
This effectively removes any doubts as to the future intentions or operations
of the Company and the certainty of its activities, and is a guarantee against control
through purchase or other means from outside sources.
A special report by Mr. H. W. Gepp, late Chairman of the Commonwealth
Development and Migration Commission, and also member and late President of the
Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, London, and also of Australasia, is included
in the Prospectus and covers an analysis of the figures and information generally
of an especial interest to the investing public in the individual and national oppor-
tunity of this enterprise.
In this report, quoted verbatim in the Prospectus, Mr. Gepp states, inter alia: —
“ASSETS ACQUIRED: I have an intimate knowledge of the plant, equip-
ment and improvements at Newnes Junction, Newnes and Capertee, gained
from my detailed examinations and valuations, I understand that Shale Oil
Development Committee, Ltd., has spent recently at Newnes approximately
£30,000, of which a considerable portion is represented by rehabilitation of
Plant and machinery. In my judgment, an expenditure approaching £1,000,000
would be required to build the railway and provide the plant, machinery,
mining developments and all other facilities available and useful to-day..”
Mr. Gepp’s x’eport concludes:—
“After an exhaustive survey I am satisfied that there is ample justification
Tor your enterprise, and I am pleased to accept your offer to be associated with
your development as a Business and Technical Consultant, particularly as the
success of this industry, of which I feel assured, will contribute greatly to the
welfare of the Commonwealth”
ESTIMATED PRODUCTION AND PROFITS—DIVIDEND 20%.
Detailed figures most conservatively prepared from actual working and experts’
figures show an annual production of 104,000 tons of Shale yielding a total output of
7,904,000 gallons, of which 70 p.c. would be motor spirit. This will make available,
after all provisions for taxes and redemption, etc., an estimated annual profit of
£61,097, providing a dividend on the subscribed capital of £300,000 at the rate of over
20 p.c. per annum. (The profits have been estimated on a recovery of only 58 p.c.
motor spirit, whereas E. E. Kurth, B.Sc., in his report on the Capertee Shale gives
70 p.c. as the yield!)
MARKETING, &c.
The Company is favorably advantaged in having concluded a contract for the
sale, naked at the works, of the whole of its products. The purchasers, Messrs.
Kamsay and Treganowan, Ltd., have already a large connection in Victoria as refiners
and distributors of petroleum products, and their association with this Company
precludes the necessity for heavy outlay in containers and the huge expense of
distribution.
The fact that the Company is acquiring existing plant, etc., costing to replace at
least £1,000,000. requiring only a small outlay to modernise, should commend itself to
investors as an opportunity of acquiring an initial interest in an industry where
production is immediately possible, continuity of supply assured, with an eager
market awaiting the product.
GENERAL.
The investors’ interests are secured by the protection in capital assets, by the
investigations of the Commonwealth Government into the economic soundness of the
industry before entrusting it to the principals of this Company; by the Common-
wealth Government’s approval of the Prospectus, and by its grant of £lO,OOO to the
Company as further earnest of its desire to quickly establish the industry for the
benefit of Australia.
The value to Australia of this Company’s success is realised when consideration
is given to the permanent and profitable employment of vast numbers of Australian
workmen —to the utilisation and exploitation of our own undeveloped primary
resources in place of foreign importations and dependence upon external supplies
for naval, military and national transport purposes—to the saving to Australia in
cheapened transport by reduction in costs of motor spirit—in short, a major step in
the correcting of our international economic position and a positive step forward in
our rehabilitation.
The project is one that must commend itself for investment to every Australian
—for his own individual profit and for the betterment of Australia in establishing a
national industry.
There is no speculation, no element of chance discovery in Newnes Shale Oil. The
world’s richest oil shale is actually there —over 20 million tons of it. commercially
proved to yield over 100 gallons to the ton. Modern plants have eliminated all
uncertainty in production and refining.
Everything for the speedy and commercial operation of this profitable industry—
men, material, machinery and market—is ready to respond to the investment of those
who realise that for them this national undertaking presents a personal opportunity.
PARTICULARS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS
OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 1928.
Robert Ambrose Treganowan, of 475 Latrobe Street, Melbourne, and Cecil Osbert
Chambers, of 440 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, have applied for Five Hundred
Shares to qualify as Directors. .
The minimum subscription on which Directors may proceed to allotment is 100,000
shares, on each of which the sum of 2/- shall have been paid to and received by the
Company. The amount payable on application is 2/- per share, and the amount
payable on allotment is 2/- per share. , .
The full statutory contents of the Prospectus are not included in this advertise-
ment, which contains nothing inconsistent with the full Prospectus.
Application for shares will proceed only on Forms of Application supplied with
and endorsed upon the printed copies of the Prospectus. These may be obtained from
Starkey and Starkey, 77 York Street, Sydney, or Chancery House, 485 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, or any recognised member of the Stock Exchanges of Australia.


SUNSHINE FARM IMPLEMENTS
Work Well and Last Long
“Sunshoe” Seed Planter
s*
Sows Maize, Peas, Cotton, French
Bean, Onion, Turnip, Mangel,
Broom, Sudan Grass, Peanut,
Pumpkin and many other seeds.
PRICES:
For sowing seed only . . £5/19/-
For sowing both seed and
fertiliser £7/2/6
“Satellite” One-horse Hoes
ƒd
No. 80 type, leverless, as here
illustrated £2/7/6
No. 88. Similar, but heavier. Ideal
for plantation work .. £3/11/-
No. 7. With expansion lever and
depth-regulating lever, £3/11/-
These handy little all-steel imple-
ments are a boon to market-garden-
ers, etc. The frames expand and
contract. Hillers and furrowers
supplied.
“S UNBIRD” PLOUGHS
■
Hi
m
a
m
%
'
v;
mm
M
m
V
> L*
! I
3-furrow “Sunbird” working on a stiff grade in Gippsland, Victoria.
The “Sunbird” Ploughs are splendid
for orchard and small-farm use, and
are noted for the manner in which
they turn in and bury green
manurial crops and weed growth.
ď
t H
I-furrow size cuts furrows 9in. wide to 6in. deep. 2- and
3-furrow sizes cut furrows Bin. wide to 6in. deep.
PRICES:
Single-furrow, with fixed handles, £4/5/6
Single-furrow, movable handles, £4/12/6
2-furrow, £l2/7/-; 3-furrow, £lB/1/-
Knife-coulter, 7/6. Rolling-coulter, 15/-
Depth-regulating Wheel, 10/-
“Tasman” Plough
đ
Mouldboard of soft centre steel
turns a good furrow and cleans
well. Cuts furrows 6fin. wide.
Overall length of plough, Bft. Has
cast share of the socket type. A
wrought-steel share can be supplied
when ordered. Wide bridle adjust-,
ment enables land to be ploughed
close up to tree-trunks.
PRICE, £3/11/-
Knife-coulter, 7/6. Wheel, 10/-
“Sunpearl” Disc Harrow
Gangs are
exten s i b 1 e
for gap up
to 2 feet.
Discs are
reve r s i b 1 e
for in-throw
or out-throw
m
£3
8 1 6in. discs, 4ft. cut, £ll/3/-
8 20in. discs, 4ft. cut, £ 12/2/-
1 0 1 6in. discs, sft. cut, £l2/2/-
10 20in. discs, sft. cut, £l3/11/-
12 20in. discs, 6ft. cut, £l4/15/-
A forecarriage can be fitted in lieu
of pole and swings at £2/3/- extra.
These are the Net Cash Prices for delivery on rail Sunshine. Terms are, available. No extra charge made for Sales Tax—we
Write for 96-page Illustrated Descriptive Catalogue and Price List of all Sunshine Manufactures, FREE.
pay it.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD
(SUNSHINE SECTION)
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
Branches and Agencies: BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
Dragging-down Pain
and
BACKACHE
A Sure, Tried and
Trusted Remedy
Backache is seldom, if ever, just backache.
The dull aching, the sharp stabbing twinges of
pain, the down-dragging, head-aching, nerve-
depressing misery has a deep-seated, dangerous
cause—weak or diseased kidneys.
Always ailing, pain-ridden men and women,
you must face the facts. Men—in these
anxious times you cannot afford to start and
carry through the day crippled with pain,
showing in every movement, in your face, your
very eyes, signs of age-giving, wearing-out
kidney trouble. Women—you cannot wilfully
neglect or tinker about with your health until
breakdown comes in sight.
When we firmly state that De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills will end the suffering you now endure and bring
back days of happiness, there are thousands of wives and mothers,
nurses, clergymen, chemists, and a host of men and women in all
walks of life glad to tell you how De Witt’s Pills ended their
“untold agonies,” “maddeningtorture,” “crippling pain”—in some
cases after years of suffering.
Mrs. A. Weightman, 3 Bridge Street, Granville, N.S.W., writes It is with
the greatest gratitude I write to tell you about the wonderful benefit I have
derived from your pills. I was a great sufferer for eight months from
kidney and bladder trouble, and my back was very bad. I could scarcely
walk any distance. I was hardly ever out of my room, and I was often
confined to my bed for weeks at a time. I suffered torturing pain day and
night. I was nearly at death's door , but since using De Witt's Pills I feel
like a new woman. My backache has completely gone, and Lam able to
feel that life is worth living now. I cannot speak too highly of your
wonderful pills, and will never be without a bottle in the house."
sag
.
.
sft
Gv'
m
m
m
i
!»7n<
mm
s
■
m
m
n
Worn-out, ill, life a misery one day, the next—free from pain,
able to enjoy work and pleasure—this is the experience of thou-
sands who have taken De Witt’s Pills for Backache, Rheumatism,
Swollen Joints and other painful complaints caused by Kidney
Trouble. Why wait a day longer ? • Get a bottle of this 40-year-old
remedy from your chemist to-day and enjoy good health again.
De Witt’s Pills are recommended by one-time sufferers every-
where, and used the world over. You will see and know they
are doing you good within twenty-four
hours. There is no other medicine which
gives this safe, quick and certain benefit.
There are cheap imitations. You will
wisely ask for the genuine De Witt’s
Pills. Sold by all chemists in two
sizes, 3/6, or larger, more economical
size, 6/6. Never sold loose.
DeWitt’s
Kidney
and
Bladder
sdf
'WM
M
m
%
si


TO-DAY
To-day is the to-morrow you were thinking of yesterday.
There is hardly anything that the average person procrastinates
about quite so much as money-saving, despite that the same average
person has a comparatively small income, knows that he must spend
carefully and save wisely, and knows, too, the best way to do it.
Have you done, to-day, what you yesterday put off until to-
morrow?
You can open a Savings Bank Account anywhere, because the
Commonwealth Savings Bank is represented in every district in Aus-
tralia, and with any amount, from one shilling upwards.
It is so easy—you have only to register your signature and deposit
your shilling (or more) and you will have started on your saving
campaign—to-day.
(Hommonwcaltb SavmasM of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
sdf
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
YEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them*
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
CO OPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner EPzabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers' Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
SUCCESSFUL SOLDIER-SETTLERS.
In 1919 several estates in the Myrtleford
district of north-east Victoria were cut up
for soldier-settlement. It is far from being
ihe best dairying land in that part of Vic-
-1 oria; but by going in for herd-testing, pas-
ture management and fodder conservation,
some of the settlers have been notably suc-
cessful. Senior Dairy Supervisor Yuill, in
an article in the “Journal of Agriculture,”
draws attention to the fact that six cows
owned by one of the settlers, Mr. Kneebone.
averaged 5031 b. butter-fat. “This result is
equal to the return from a herd of more than
20 cows in many parts of Australia, for the
Commonwealth average is 1401 b.”
Another herd of 48 Jersey grade cows,
owned by Mr. Don Browne, is rated by Mr.
Yuill as “probably the outstanding herd of
its size in Australia.” It. averaged 4171 b.
butter-fat, according to the local herd-test-
ing association’s records, and over 4001 b.
Recording to factory returns. Mr. Browne has
an area of 250 acres, about three-fifths good
flats and the rest very light hill land*.
Approximately 140 acres have been top-
dressed, 23 acres of oats are grown for
winter feed and 9 acres of Sudan grass for
summer fodder. The pastures were sown
with a heavy seeding; the mixture was
2 bushels perennial rye, 101 b. cocksfoot, and
lib. each of: white Dutch, cow grass and
Alsyke clover. Mr. Browne and his wife
attend to the milking, which is done by
machines.
Mr. C. C. Johnson, another settler, has
in five years increased his herd and returns
from 27 cows, averaging 1871 b. butter-fat, to
52, averaging 3511 b.—-all on 250 acres of
light land. Now 100 acres are annually
cropped to wheat and barley, half being
used by the farm stock, mainly for pig feed.
“From 30 to 40 tons of super, are used
annually on this farm,” says Mr. Yuill.
“Various mixtures of pastures have been
tried, the most satisfactory being perennial
rye, 14 bushels; cocksfoot, 4 bushel; and
21b. each of white Dutch, cow grass, Alsyke,
and sub. clover. This very heavy seeding
provides a thick pasture in the first year.
Hunter River lucerne is grown on 25 acres
without irrigation; three cuts were taken
off last year. A hillside pit silo 35ft.
x 15ft. x lift, depth has been built.
It contains the first cut lucerne from 25
acres, sown pasture from 10 acres, subter-
ranean clover from 5 acres, and shandy hay
from 8 acres cut in the early hay stage.
“In filling his pit silo Mr. Johnson aims
to get in about 7ft. daily. A fin. pipe is
inserted into the ensiled mass, and a ther-
mometer let into it so that temperatures, can
he observed. As fresh material is added, the
temperature falls, and filling operations are
stayed; then gradually it rises to IlOdeg.
or to 115 deg. F„ and filling is resumed. It
takes about 14. days to fill the silo; by this
time the material is some 7ft. or Bft. higher
than the surface. After sealing down with
earth, the mass sinks till it is a little above
the earth level. On the occasion of my last
visit to Air. Johnson’s farm, he had as
reserves five stacks of grass hay, contain-
ing about SO tons, and approximately 25
tons of oaten hay.
“The splendidly equipped pig-sheds and
pig-yards (all painted) are worth going a
long way to see. The twelve sows and three
boars which constitute the pure stud of
Large White pigs were all bred from imported
stock. An average litter numbers 10. All
marketed pigs are first grazed in small pad-
docks, and finished off on self-feeders. A
half-and-half mixture of crushed wheat and
barley is used, to which 1 p.c. of air-slaked
lime is added. As much charcoal is given as
the young pigs will eat. There is a keen
demand for stock from the Johnson stud.
Settlers in this district prefer Large
Whites, for which a good many Bulletin
readers do not care. On another farm a
pure stud of Large Whites is being de-
veloped. Some Large White Mid-White
first-cross sows are being bred back to the
Large White boar ; the progeny are making
1501 b. baconcrs in six months. The main
ration consists of crushed barley, fed through
self-feeders, with skim milk : an area of 45
acres is cropped annually to barley and oats.
CAREFUL AND CARELESS MILKING.
“Mulgo”: Two common faults in milking
are irregularity and not emptying the udder
by stripping it right out. Stripping is im-
portant. for two reasons: the strippings are
the richest part of the milk, and when left
this fatty residue is likely to thicken in
the teat. The thickening can be seen in the
teat of a cow that is being dried off —and
many good cows are spoilt by being dried
off too quickly. «
In some dairies I have seen the ccws dry
off comparatively early, whilst in neighbor-
ing places, cows and. conditions being equal,
they milked almost from calf to calf. The
difference was mainly actfmutaO.e to care-
less milking.
Irregularity may occur even when the
milking of the herd begins at the same time
every day. With a big herd that occupies,
say, three hours to get through, the milk-
man generally bails up the’nearest'.cow that
comes to hand. In that way the first cow
that is milked one morning may be the last
milked the .next morning, making a differ-
ence of three hours in her milking time in
the two days. That is actually, the first
step you take when you start to. dry off a
cow; the next is to miss the morning and
milk her in the afternoon. The harm done
in this haphazard fashion should be obvious.
A good dairymen, bent on keeping up a
first-class herd and getting the best from
every cow, milks each one in her regular
order. The interval from morning to morn-
ing in each case is thus alwavs exactly the
same. Besides the benefit of this punctu-
ality in constant production, provided the
cows are always stripped, each one gets to
know her place end responds readily when
wanted. The udder of a well-milked cow
hangs in loose, limp folds at the back,
whilst that of a frequently carelessly milked
one often hangs in an ugly bag at the
bottom.
In the afternoon, on mixed farms, the
milking is sometimes finished early and
sometimes late —according to the pressure
of work in the field or elsewhere. It is not
unusual to hear the rattle of buckets after
dark. In such times, too, the morning oper-
ation often begins earlier than the customary
time, thus shortening the interval between
night and morning and lengthening it be-
tween morning and afternoon. In either
case it is false economy.
RESIDUAL EFFECT OF FERTILISERS.
“S. Quire”; A farmer in the Ballarat dis-
trict recently told me that bonedust was not
suitable for his land. In the subsequent
talk it was learnt that he had tried it one
year on potatoes without any striking re-
sult ; but the following season, sowing barley
on the same area with lewt. of super., he
harvested the best crop ever grown in the
district. Now lie is a confirmed super, dis-
ciple.
Super, is indubitably the most valuable
fertiliser for Australian soils, but in this
case the farmer in all probability was giving
it an extra pat on the back that it did not
deserve. He had made no'allowance for the
residual effect of the bonedust. -The com-
mon practice is to apply fertiliser and look
only for an increased yield from the follow-
ing crop without any thought of subsequent
benefit from the fertiliser residue. In Eng-
land the law requires that a tenant on leav-
ing a farm must be compensated by the
landlord for the residues left in the soil
from the fertilisers applied during his ten-
ancy. The residual, effect of super, is par-
ticularly noticeable in cereal farming in
Australia, for the growth along the drill
rows on the stubble is most pronounced—a
further proof of the deficiency of our soil
in phosphoric acid.
Animal fertilisers, such as bonedust or
blood and bone, are very useful on freeholds
under intense culture, because they supply
both nitrogen and phosphoric acid in read-
ily available forms which are consistently
present for the use of the crop and subse-
quent crops.
The best bargains are not always in the
shop window. Some fertilisers are very
quick-acting (and therefore most valuable),
and tlieir benefit is readily seen, whereas
other fertilisers, which give emphatic results
over two or three seasons, may be pre-judged
because of their retiring disposition—their
goods are not displayed in the window. The
fertilisers mentioned would probably give
half the nitrogen and a third of the phos-
phoric acid content to the crop during the
first year, the remainder being made avail-
able during the three or-four years follow-
ing. Therefore it should not be forgotten
when using this type of fertiliser that the
residual effect enriches the soil over a period,
and the cost should be apportioned accord-
ingly. To a lesser extent the wheat-wool
cocky should not debit the wheat yield with
the whole cost of the hundredweight of
super., for the woollies carry some of it on
their backs.
The residual effect from sulphate of
ammonia, sodium nitrate and the like is
infinitesimal; from super, it is appreciable,
and from potash and animal fertilisers
(bonedust, etc.) it is considerable.
REVIVING- “DEAD” LAND.
“Tliorley” : Baffling to some farmers is land
that has gone dead. Payable/ crops cannot
be grown on it, and if it is allowed to go
into grass it is years and years before a
decent soil is obtained. The only speedy
means of recovering such land is to plough
it into comparatively narrow bands, work
and fertilise it well and sow with grasses—
ox-, preferably, clovers—that will thrive in the
particular district.
I like Wimmera rye and perennial rye, with
sub. or cluster clover. Soft brome grass
(Brotnus mollis) has few friends amongst
botanists, but it is a great battler under
adverse conditions and a capital soil-reno-
vator. Where a good crop of soft brome
grows anything can be grown. Spear grass
Uiromus stcrilis) is another flue battler,
but a deuce of a nuisance in a crop of any
sort. It. however, will produce much winter
feed, and if eaten out bare to prevent seed-
ing it may be reduced to a minimum in
tin- succeeding crop.
Last autumn I saw some fine stands of
clovers and volunteer grasses ploughed down
to make room for cereals. For a certainty
there will be a big percentage in, the result-
ing crops. These areas would have proved
more profitable, with less work and worry
to the owner, if they had been allowed to
go into grass. Such paddocks have returned
far more in butter-fat than wheat or oats,
and if used for raising fat lambs would
have left the laud enriched.
LUCERNE HAY.
“Alf Alpha” : Lucerne hay is one of the
most valuable feeding stuffs on the Austra-
lian market, and yet it is quite common to
see lines of very poor quality—bundles of
stems and ribs —on offer and being sold. This
low-grade hay is the result of careless har-
vesting—late cutting, delayed wilting and
bad staining. It costs as much to produce
and cure, and probably more to press and
sell, than hay of prime quality. On the
other hand, the consumer purchasing the
stuff because it is cheap is getting a bad
bargain.
Prime lucerne hay should be leafy, of a
fresh green color, clean and free from rub-
bish. The leaves of lucerne contain about
70 per cent, of the protein, and are low
in fibre and high in digestibility, so that the
value of the pressed hay will largely depend
upon the amount of adhering leaf. A nice
green color denotes palatibility, and tin;
freedom from rubbish preserves the high-
feeding value of the legume.
American experiments prove the follow-
ing variations in the percentage of leaf
according to the time of cutting: Pre-bloom
stage,.sB per cent.; ouc-tenth bloom, 56 per
cent.; full bloom, 33 per cent. The pro-
tein content of the hay decreased from
approximately 22 per cent, in the pre-bloom
stage to 18 per cent, when the plant was in
full bloom, and the fibre increased as the
plant matured. Exposure to rain can easily
destroy half the feeding value of the hay,
for the soluble nutrients are dissolved, and
in this way the more readily digestible pro-
tein, fat and carbo-hydrate is lost.
It pays the producer to aim at marketing
the prime stuff only, and the consumer is
well advised who buys prime-quality hay,
because the discount obtained from the
lower-priced grade docs not nearly compen-
sate for the loss in feeding value and diges-
tibility.
WHEAT JJATS-F ALLOW.
“Wescocky”; The scarcity of fodder in
the outer districts of the Westralian wheat
belt this year and the losses caused by take-
all and kindred fungi every season empha-
sise the necessity for the sowing of oats in
paddocks cropped with wheat the previous
season. A few farmers are trying it with
gratifying results, thereby not only checking
the spread of take-all and the more virulent
types of weeds but also providing ample
grazing for their stock. Less fortunate neigh-
bors, having relied in vain on weeds and
natural grasses, are forced to sacrifice the
best of their flocks to save them from starva-
tion, their only alternative being to turn
them loose on backward wheat crops.
Under present conditions it is courting
disaster to allow paddocks infested with
take-all and flag smut and thickly covered
with weeds to run to grass. To crop such
paddocks with wheat is equally hopeless;
to fallow all ground uncropped is beyond
the means of the general run of whear,-
farmer; to attempt stock-raising as a side-
line would be futile in such circumstances.
To cope with take-all, which, if buried- in
the soil, germinates after the first winter
rains, the ground should be ploughed imme-
diately after the stubble burn, care being
taken to turn in the remaining stubble frag-
ments. To eradicate grasses that act as a
host to the fungi, reploughing and cultivation
must bo done late in the drilling season, tor
a huge percentage of the worst weeds ger-
minate but fitfully until long after the first
winter rains. Quickly-maturing varieties
of oats should be planted at the time and
the fertiliser should not be stinted.
SHELTER ON FARMS.
“Curlew”: Victoria is paying dearly for
the senseless destruction of timber in farming
districts.. Whether in the Mallee or on the
plains, in the mountains or along the rivers
and creeks, off came a ring of baik, and
gaunt dead trees testify to the folly. So
does the silting up of creeks and rivers. In
the Mallee and on the plains the winds now
have free scope, and'at times shift thousands
of tons of soil from one part tp another,
ruining cultivation paddocks and fences,
and damaging buildings. It has been stated
that a line of green timber acting as
a breakwind will reduce the evaporation for
a distance of half a mile. Most districts can
do with any increase in the moisture con-
tent of the soil, and undoubtedly growth is
better when heavy winds are prevented.
Our district is rather better off than most
in respect of green timber supplies. A fair
amount of scattered timber is on most farms,
and hills and ranges also have much value
in reducing the exposure to winds. But not.
many are so well served as my farm in this
respect. Forty-odd years ago the place re-
ceived the usual pretty general ringing, but
along a ridge about half a mile by 15 chains
wide numerous saplings sprang into growth.
These were spared, and the area is now
an ideal camping-ground for stock. There
are parts where the saplings have not wholly
taken possession, and there in bad weather
stock get a certain amount of feed, while
remaining sheltered from bitter winds. My
dairy cows suffer less in winter time than
those of my neighbors. Half of it I have
fenced off so that lambing ewes or other
sheep running on portion of the property
may be diverted there in bad weather.
Last year my lambing percentage was 87,
and this year I hope to do better. So far
my lamb losses run less than 3 per cent.
The ewes choose this high, sheltered part
for lambing and do not Venture out till the
lambs are strong and frisky. These saplings
however, are inclined to run up with long
bare boles. By cutting them down near
ground level (a sloping cut) a number of
shoots are thrown out and make very vigor-
ous growth. Lopping in July and August
results in a heavy growth of branches, giv-
ing trees with bushy beads and of maximum
value as windbreaks.
BACK TO BULKIER FLEECES.
“Murrawong” : My objection to “Sheepo’s”
definition (B. 13/7/’32 1 of a GO’S wool
stands. If a wool is of 60’s quality in every
respect, but is tender, it still remains a
60’s type; I have never heard of a tender
60’s wool being called a 58’s. The fact of
wool being tender does not necessarily de-
tract from its market value —the tender
portion of a clip I handled last year realised
the same price per lb. as the sound fleece.
Some buyers—the French, in particular—
are keen bidders for it. The trouble arises
from mixing tender and sound fleeces; keep
them strictly apart and don’t brand the
tender wool “Combing,” and you will have
nothing to worry about.
I once accepted the universal dogma that
the majority of our wools were of GO’;
quality, and at the time .saw no cause
to disbelieve it. However, a close analysis
of about a hundred clips and flocks that
I have personally handled resulted in my
statement in a recent Bulletin that 64’,s
predominated. I’ll admit that West and
South Aust. clips may bulk 60’s or lower,
but N.S.W. and Q. merino clips are at
present showing the, result of the fancy
prices paid for fine wools some years ago.
To-day, the tendency is swinging back again
towards the big, bulky fleece at the .expense
of quality, and, if the awards at the recent
Sydney Sheep Show may be taken as a
guide, a couple of years will show a big
increase in the broader staple. Ask any
well-known classer to analyse the clips br-
ims handled during the last two seasons—
both good years, with a tendency to coarsen
the staple—and in most cases he will tell
you that the bulk of the wool was 64’s
or better. I put my theory to that test
with positive results.
WHY KILL OFF LAYERS?
“Minorca”: Westralian poultry farmers
have not had all the best of it during the
last few years, and many hitherto accepted
principles in poultry management have had
to be revised. Replacing tin- entire flock
with pullets each year is one of them. Now-
adays, economy must be the producer’s
maxim, and surely it is a waste to kill ofl
laying hens and replace them, at consider-
able cost, with others whose extra yield may
not compensate for the additional expense
and labor involved. Many farmers’ keep the
best of their hens over for the second year -
a few even for the third year. This lessens
(Continued on next page.)


A- ■ '
tM
m
m m
:>.■
IT WEARS BETTER
.... because it fits with perfect
ease and smoothness. This
Abbey Boot, built on an ex-
clusive and strictly correct last,
accommodates every curve of
the foot and has an upper
which, in consequence, is not
subjected to dragging strains
that pull it out of shape. It
wears infinitely better....
stands up to ever so much more
resoling. And, it is comfort-
able right from the start. Both
sole and upper are made of
the best quality Australian
leather.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in every full and half
size. Specify width and length, and
order, also, the correct Abbey Pre-
servative Polish (6d. per tin), or a
handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf 557-
Black Glace Kid 557-
Black Box Calf 50/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 293
DO YOU WANT YOUR
WOOL HANDLED BY
An Experienced Classer
OR BY A LEARNER?
/'ANLY experienced men of certified ability
are eligible for full membership of the
WOOL CLASSERS’ ASSOCIATION OF N.S.W.
The Association will supply elassers at Current
Rates, and welcomes any inquiries. Apply:
THE WOOL CLASSERS’ ASSN.,
10 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
SAF
Duplicate Parts, Combs and
Cutters.
Accurately made, correctly
hardened.
Perfectly finished.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Sow
:c®£-
■<£s
.ve c< ?o°*°
We offer
SEED
OF THE MAIN VARIETIES
Li&ht Types for Pipe and Cigarettes on Li&ht
Soils, and Dark Smoking Tobacco oh Heavy Land
WHITE STEM ORONOCO. HICKORY PRYOR CON
PRYOR, GOLDEN PRYOR. YELLOW PRYOR. CON-
QUEROR. CONQUEROR BROADLEAF, KENTUCKY
YELLOW. DUNGOWAN. GOLD LEAF. SPOTTED
GUM. WARNE. VIRGINIA (Cigar Leaf. Packets only)
1/- and 2/6 PKT IN BULK 5/- oz
(Special quotation for large quantities !
LAW.SOMNER pty. ltd. f“
21-23 ELIZABETH STREET MELBOURNE C 1
Th** Man who makes you this sensational
offer—see below.
ARE YOU A
NERVOUS
SUBJECT?
A Sensational Book devoted entirely
to all forms of nervous disorders is
offered Free to readers of this paper.
YVTTTHOUT the use of drugs, apparatus,
” tonics, faith cure, or any other unnatural
stimulant you can develop the Nerve Force
of a tiger—-easily and simply in your own
home. Whether you are just nervous at times,
whether you blush or stammer or can’t sleep,
whether you are self-conscious or shy, you
should read this remarkable book, because it
will explain to you the reason for your weak-
ness! This book fully explains and illustrates
how YOU can get rid of your nervousness
permanently. You will feel the benefit in the
first few days. Gradually your nerve troubles
will be overcome, your will-power strengthened
and you will have complete command of your
thoughts and actions !
AMONGST THE CONTENTS OF
THIS AMAZING BOOK ARE
MY personal experience as a nervous wreck,
brain power comes with nerve force,
how to overcome blushing and self-conscious-
ness, how to develop a commanding person-
ality, how to develop will-power and dozens of
more vitally interesting features all fully
explained and illustrated.
SEND FOR THIS FREE BOOK
NOW!
JUST 500 copies of this sensational book will
be issued Free to readers of this journal
in the next four weeks. You are advised to
get your application in the post to-day without
fail, and by return post you will receive a
book that will open your eyes. But please
post to-day !
MAIL NOW!
FREDERICK GRAY, Desk 11,
Lombard Chambers,
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me a. copy of your book, “Nerve
Strength, Self-Consciousness and Personality.”
1 am enclosing 2d. in stamps to cover cost of
postage.
Name
Add res:
S.B. 10/8/’S2.
i
nnjigr
SBC
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
BULLY
HAYES
Barrator, Bigamist, Buccaneer, Black-
birder and Pirate. An authentic life
of William Henry Hayes, of Ohio or
New York, U.S.A., compiled and
written by A. T. Saunders.
Read this remarkable narrative of
BULLY HAYES,
THE PIRATE OF THE
PACIFIC OCEAN.
PRICE 1/2 (Post Free).
Copies obtainable from: —
THE SUNDAY TIMES Publishing
CO., LTD.,
Stirling Street, Perth, Western
Australia.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH
the number of chicks to be raised each year;
larger eggs are secured, and mature hens arc
. vail able for breeding. It is a question
whether or not the extra production of
pullets as compared with yearling hens off-
sets the cost of replacing the entire flock;
in most cases it does not. Then the prac-
tice should be discarded to the point where
diminishing returns from the old hens just
meet the cost of raising the chicks.
Of course, to do the job properly, it would
be necessary to know the individual output
of the hens. This information couhl be se-
cured accurately only by .trapnesting each
bird throughout the laying period. Trying
to pick the heavy layers from an ordinary
flock would be more dr less guesswork. But
the farmer should know the returns from
each pen. If the leading pens only were
retained, the process of elimination would be
simplified.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Would a reaper and binder handle reason-
ably well a medium irrigated crop of lucerne,
discharging it loose on to the sheaf-ear Her?
—1097.
General experience favors the mower and
hay rake, a most efficient and expeditious
method of handling lucerne. However, there
appears to be no reason why the binder
should not be used, provided the sheaf-
carrier can be so adjusted as to prevent the
lucerne from falling between the fingers.
Cause and cure of warts on coirs’ teats? —
1245.
Common warts in cattle are caused by
infection by a virus too small to be seen
under a powerful microscope. Depending
upon the age and shape of the wart, removal
may be accomplished by snipping off close
to the skin with scissors. If they are round
and embedded, it may be brought about
by shelling out after incising the overlying
skin. Should they be deeply embedded in
the tissues the operation should be per-
formed by a vet. The base of warts removed
should be touched with a drop or two of
glacial acetic or tincture of iodine. Some-
limes small warts will disappear if kept
soft by daily applications of castor oil.
(1) Qualifications necessary to become a
stock inspector in Q’land? (2) Is there a
market in Brisbane for" rabbit-skinst —1838.
(1) It is necessary to pass an examination
in anatomy, physiology and diseases of
domesticated animals, also to have a theoreti-
cal and practical knowledge of meat inspec-
tion. (2) Only about 3d. per pound is paid.
There is a good market for well-furred skins
in Sydney.
Method of trapping parrots and cockatoos?
—1022.
The best trapping place for white or sul-
phur-crested cockatoos is a stubble paddock
or a field where a grain crop has been re-
cently harvested. There a mia-mia is built,
and a couple of tame birds are tethered on
a cleared space near by, on which grain is
strewn daily until the wild flock has become
accustomed to the change. Then the trapper
sets a net there at night, pegging the sides
down and covering with sand, but leaving a
part at the back in loose folds. To this a
couple of strong cords, leading from the
cover, are attached, and before daylight next
morning the trapper conceals himself in the
mia-mia. At a favorable moment, when the
birds are clustered on the feeding patch, he
gives a quick hard pull, and the net is closed
over them. Parrots are usually taken from
the nests.
(1) Would a B in. centrifugal pump be
satisfactory for pumping .sand out of a
stream? (2) Approximate amount of sand
pumped out per hour to a height of 15 ft.?
(3) Power necessary to drive the pump?--
1118.
(1) An ordinary centrifugal pump will do
the job, but the impellor will probably need
replacing every few months and, later, the
casing. (2) upon the nature of
the bed and whether the sand is loose or firm.
The pump will hoist 10,000 gallons of
water per hour containing 10 p.c. solids or
6.4 tons of sand. (3) 3 h.p. engine.
llow to protect wire-netting, used on fruit
trees against weather. Is tarring or tan-
-11 ing preferable? —l2lo.
The tar method requires the addition of
several chemicals which are awkward for an
amateur to handle. Soaking the nets in a
strong solution of alum and water is a good
preservative. The best method for you is
to tan the nets in the gum tanning for fish-
ing nets —Is. per pound from most ship
chandlers, or from B. M, Corrigan and Go.,
189 Sussex-street, Sydney. Ask for direc-
tions for using when buying.
I have galvanised-troughing to carry water
away from a bore head in the bed of a creek.
This f inning has been there five years and I
have been painting it every six months with
coal tar to prevent rust, The hot water
seems to melt the tar and wash it away after
a few months, and I now find that rust is
setting in. Can you recommend anything
to prevent this? —1166.
Nothing much more suitable than tar can
be used in such circumstances, and it would
be impossible to apply any other finish over
tar. When the time comes to replace the
fluming we can give you detailed instruc-
tions as to how to apply the most durable
possible finish.
7 own a dairy farm in N.S.W:., which is
worked by a share farmer. If any accident
happens to him am I responsible? —ll67.
Depends on whether you control his work.
Tf no control is exercised as to the manner
in which the work is performed, no liability
attaches under the provisions of the N.S.W.
Workers’ Compensation Act.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Country Ped.”: In experimenting with
fertilisers for top-dressing, the Vie. State
schools which have Pasture Improvement
Clubs measure up three sq. perches of grass-
land in one line, fence with wire-netting
against rabbits, and leave one perch un-
manured. The second has super, applied at
the rate of lewt. per acre; the third, double
the quantity. Simple observations every
month of the growing period show the effects
for all practical purposes. Different pas-
tures can be sown down and treated the
same way. Any interested farmer could do
the same with benefit to himself, and a
saving in large-scale applications.
“Legana”: A simple way of preventing-
green strainer-posts from splitting is to
slap a coating of clay on the top. If clay
is not available, plain earth will do. This
method has served me well in the" wet climate
of North Tas., and one subject to many
and various changes of temperature.
“Cooramin”: It takes nearly as long to
mortise half-a-dozen holes and cut slip-
mils to fit as it does to make a handy
gate; and it takes as long to put down one
rail and put it up again as it takes to open
and shut a gate. When you. note the extra
time .von occupy with the other rails on
every occasion you have to go through, you
can reckon liow much time you waste in a
year, to say nothing of the extra work en-
tailed.
“Wandi”: An old shoe off a draught horse,
rounded a bit on the anvil, and pointed and
bent at the tips, makes a neat bale hook for
lifting heavy weights. Anybody can manage
the transformation in a few minutes.
“Tindog” : A handy device for urging on
sluggish sheep can be made by driving a
hole through the lids of half a dozen to a
dozen baking-powder tins and threading on
a piece of wire. By rattling this you will
save your voice and also your dog. It is
particularly useful when yarding or penning
sheep.
“Alan”: To save broken spokes when work-
ing a Massey Harris combine in lough ground,
cut four wooden spokes for each wheel. Make
these long enough to lit. tightly between hub
(where they should be tapered to fit between
webs) and rim, and wire them firmly to the
most convenient spokes.
“Kripple” : .When matches run short in an
isolated camp, it. is handy to know that by
splitting what there are along their length
from the head ye’ll hae twa where there
was only yin before, ye ken.
“Johnno” : The fruit of the white cedar
contains a poison fatal to many forms of
animal life when eaten in any quantity.
It. has been known to cause serious
losses among poultry, and the death of young
pigs has been traced to their eating too freely
of the ripe berries. Possibly “N. West’s”
berry-bearing- tree (B. 20/7,/’32) was not
a white cedar at all.
“Bushman”: Scrap leather can be got
cheap now from big firms or manufacturers.
A bundle is very useful for odd repairs or
packing, whilst long strips make the edges
of the home-made rug last twice as long.
“Dunboy”: Farmers with' rabbit-proof
fences crossing their dam-drains will find a
flood-gate handy. Erect a strainer-post each
side of a drain, made deep and wide enough
to accommodate the heaviest flood liable to
flow. Place a section of solid, well-tarred
hardwood log at the bottom of the drain to
serve as a gravel beam; set in concrete it
serves better. From a length of iron rod
or water-pipe, placed 2in. or Bin. below the
top of the strainer-post, hang a wooden or
metal rabbit-netted gate, long enough to fit
snugly on the gravel beam and wide enough
to be rabbit-proof. When the drain is in
flood the gate can be swung upward, leaving
a clear course for any debris-laden stream.
“Tangaloli”: To control a bolting horse,
put a strap round the neck just behind the
ears, run rein through the ring of the bit of
the bridle and back up and buckle it on this
neckstrap. Do this with both reins. When
the rein is pulled hard the horse’s head will
be drawn well back towards his chest, and
this arrangement will instantly control him.
“Wrash”: To rid the paddock of a stump,
roots and all, dig the earth from round the
upper roots, and expose a portion of the
taproot. Leave them a few days for the
moisture to evaporate; then fill the excava-
tion with short logs and light them. When
well afire the burning mass should be cov-
ered with earth and tamped down. In a
week’s time the stump will have disappeared
to its uttermost root.
“Willeroo” : Most travelling cattle have a
habit of sticking to certain positions in the
mob. Some are always at the tail, some in
the lead, others favor right or left flank,
and each one has its favorite mate. An
observant drover, by acquainting himself
with individuals in such positions, can often
tell without counting when any of the mob
has been dropped or lost off camp.
“8.J.”: Cracks in the iron casing of a
stove can be mended by filling them with
stove putty or cement made by mixing iron
filings and watcrglass. using enough of the
filings to form a thick paste. Force paste
well into crack with a trowel or old table-
knife, and plaster over its surface with
same material. Stove heat will harden the
cement and make a tight joint.
“0.L.R.”: In flat country where suitable
sites for tanks are not available, water may
be conserved by means of concrete walls,
across small creeks and gullies. Put the
wall at the end of a water-hole to have the
advantage of the extra depth'. If there is
a rock foundation the wall should be Sin.
to a foot in thickness and should have a
decided dip in the centre. A mixture of
four parts of stone, two of clean sand, and
one of cement is the best. A few steel rods
and some wire-netting will be sufficient for
reinforcements, or if the wall does not ex-
ceed about four feet in height a number of
large stones sot in the concrete will be satis-
factory.
“E.11.M.” : To blanch celery plants, fasten
cardboard or paper collars round them with
elastic bands; the plants will then expand
easily.
“Sylvester”: In sowing cucumber, melon
seed, etc., open rows with the two back
tines of the scuffler. This is far quicker
than digging beds, and has the advantage
that the scuffler can be run through them
before they commence to run.
“J.A.S.”: Teaching chickens to roost
should begin as soon as they leave the
brooder. Boosts should be flat and about
Bin. wide, the timber free from cracks and
treated with creosote. Also keep a rag tied
round each end moistened with kerosene —
red mites will not cross this. Have all roosts
on the same level, about ISin. from the
ground at first; they can be arranged like
a raised platform, battens touching. As soon
as the youngsters catch the idea of sleeping
on top of the platform instead of under-
neath (you may have to net in the under-
neath part), start removing battens gradu-
ally until you have then ISin. apart. Never
crowd young stock.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
"Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Married couple, N.SAV,, middle-aged, man exp.
cattle all branches, wife good cook, want position
in New Guinea.-—1312.
\oung man (24), strong, healthy and willing,
wants position in New Guinea. Refs.—l33o.
Owner of mine on north end of Golden Mile,
Kalgoorlie, W.A., wants backer for development.—
1236.
Young man, N.SAV., exp. book-keeping and out-
side station work, wants position.—l3o3.
To buy secondhand books on the study of poetry
and verse-craft.—l32l.
To buy Saxon’s “Everybody’s Book of Epitaphs.”
—1235.
To buy Munthe’s “Stone of San Michele.” —1257.
To buy “The Technique of the Love-affair,” by
“Gentlewoman.” —1273.
To buy book of instruction on old-time dancing,
especially Lancers and Quadrille. —1370.
To purchase secondhand copies of “Tile Editor,”
by Leslie Quirk. —1364.
To buy Bulletins for Feb. 7, 1880, Feb. 28,
1880, March 13, 1880, and March 27, 1880, or, fail-
ing single copies, bound volume containing those
numbers.—l3s3.
Will exchange various magazines and books for
copies of Annual Reports of N.S.W. Dept, of Mines
since 1872, or will buy same.—l34s.
Words of verse entitled “Brighton’s Sister-in-law”
or “The Carrier’s Yarn.” —1283.
Words of verse, “The Tumut Christmas Cake.”
—1247.
Words of verse entitled “Same As You,” beginning
“If your luck is put with women and you’ve looked
too long on wine.”- —1278.
Words of verse beginning “Tlie sunburnt blanlcy
stockman stood,” also of verse beginning “You’re
drunk,” and other rhymes suitable for a smoke
concert. —1340.
Whereabouts of William Mawer, who kept a billiard
saloon in Sydney about 30 years ag0. —1377.
Information Sought.
When and how was the old church now
standing at Ebenezer (N.SAV.) buill? I Vho
were its earliest ministers? —1220.
The first English Presbyterians to arrive
in Australia, who came in 1802, decided
upon the Ilawkesbury flats as the best place,
for a settlement, and at once began building
the church. They, let a contract for its
erection under which payment was made
in kind, wheat being reckoned at a value
of 10s. per bushel and a pig at 9d. pet-
pound, live weight. The edifice took some
years to build. In 1808 James Mein con-
ducted the first service; John Youl, an
ordained Anglican minister, of Windsor,
became the first minister. The church was
practically non-denominational until 1824,
when it became definitely Presbyterian and
Dr. Lang arranged for a permanent chaplain.
Can I, not being d tobacco-groicer, pro-
cure tobacco leaf and manufacture it into
tobacco and cigars for mg own use without
paying excise duty? —lo3s.
The Customs Department says it will pro-
secute and press for a substantial fine in
such a case.
How can old paint on houses be removed
by caustic potash? Is there any other
method for removing old paint other than by
the use of a blowpipe? —ll24.
The use of caustic soda is not recom-
mended. Should any remain in the inter-
stices of the wood it acts as a solvent to
any paint applied later. Proprietary paint-
removers, such as Berger’s Sulvoid. give good
results on surfaces easily accessible.
(1) Is the super-het. past the experi-
mental stage? (2) Do these sets lose
their efficiency quicker than straight sets?
(3) Are they more liable to get out of order
than straight sets? (4) Are they more diffi-
cult to repair? (5) Are they harder on
valves? (6) Difference in operating costs
between a 6-valve super-het, and a 4 -valve
straight, both A.C. operated? (7) Which
type has the greater range? (8) Why do
several well-known firms not build this type
of set? (9) Is there more background noise
associated with the super-het. than with the
straight set? —1159.
(1) Yes. (2) No. (3) No. (4) No.
(5) No. (6) In the case of A.C. operation,
the difference would be practicably negli-
gible. (7) In the older sets the super-het.
had the greater range, but to-day straight-
out radio-frequency amplification has reached
such a degree of perfection that there is
very little difference between the two
methods. (8) Cost of production, for one
reason. The more popular sets manu-
factured in Australia use 4 or 5 valves and
rectifier, whereas a super-het. requires at
East 6 valves and rectifier. (9) For a given
amplification there is slightly more valve
noise in the super-hot., due to the use of
two detectors.
Cost of the last Victorian Mate election
fend the remuneration the officials received,
from returning officers downwards? —loBs.
: Cost was about £14,000. Returning officers
are honorary, but their assistants (substi-
tute returning officers) are paid fees rang-
ing from £3O to £45. The staff on election
day are paid as follows: Deputy returning
officers in charge of large polling places.
£2 ss. to £2 155.; other deputy returning
officers, £2 ; poll clerks, £l.
(1) Suitable food for three-months-old
Persian kitten? (2) Can I wash it as I
would a dog? (3) Name of book on care
(hid treatment of Pet'sian cats? (4) Though
free of fleas it is alwcvys scratching its ears.
Cause an el remedy? —lll6.
(1) Feed on Benger’s Food, mixed thin,
and administer a tablespoon at a time. Don’t
give raw meat or fish until teeth are through.
Vary diet with a tablespoon of meat gravy
poured over some breadcrumbs. For drink,
milk to which a teaspoon of limewater is
sometimes added. (2) Hand brushing is pre-
ferable to washing. (3) “Your Cat,” by
A. do Bary Saunders. (4) There may be
some parasitic irritation. If it continues,
have cat examined by a vet.
(1) Recipe for “ Worcestershire ” sauce,
using soy? (2) Recipe for pulping ripe
tomatoes in casks for making tomato sauce
in winter? —ll2B.
(1) lgal. vinegar, lOoz. sugar, 4nz. salt,
2oz. garlic, 4oz. cayenne, hr/,, wliolespice,
kiz. white pepper, 3oz. flour, 4 pint Indian
or Chinese soy. Mix all dry ingredients,
and add with soy to vinegar. Boil gently
for half an hour, strain and bottle while
hot. Cork when cold. (2) Wipe the toma-
toes clean, or remove skins by scalding. Cut
up the fruit and boil for half an hour, or
a little longer if it is watery. It should
then be placed quickly in thoroughly steril-
ised jars or tins and sealed while hot, per-
fectly airtight. Doubt whether casks are
suitable for storing the pulp unless you can
make everything very hot and clean; they
are awkward things to cleanse.,
I wish to equip a tennis court for night
plug (electric light not available). (1)
What type of light is most suitable? (2)
Number of lights necessary? (3) Type of
reflectors? (4) Approximate cost of outfit?
(5) Approximate candle-power of a double
jet acetylene burner? —1154.
(1) “Nulite” storm-proof lanterns would
be most suitable. These lamps are 400
candle-power and will burn for ten hours on
a little over a pint of benzine. Details,
Brandts. 371 Pitt-street, Sydney. (2) Six.
<3) Reflectors are provided at a small addi-
tional cost. (4) About £22 10s., including
reflectors. (5) About 50 c.-p.
I live part of the year in Melbourne and
part in Queensland, Income is derived from
war pension, co. dividends in Vic. and, an
interest in an estate in Tas. I pay Federal
and Vic. income tax and have also sub-
mitted return to Tas. Taxation Department,
in respect, of my Tas. income. The Tas.
Taxation Department demands details of my
Vic. income. Must I furnish such informa-
tion? If not, can the Commissioner sue me
in Queensland for failing to do so? —1185.
The jurisdiction of a State Taxation Com-
missioner is limited to his own territory. Wo
know of no law under which the demand for
details of income derived outside Tasmania
can be enforced upon a person who does not
reside in that State. War pensions are nor
taxable.
(1) In mixing paint what quantity of
sine-white in oil will take one gallon of raw
linseed oil? (2) Proportion of patent driers
to sine and linseed oil? (3) How is the,
mixture, colored? —1144,
(1) Using the very purest zinc-white, 281 b.
A reduced or debased zinc takes less. (2)
To 281 b. of zinc in 1 gallon oil, 31b. patent
driers. (3) The reduced paint can be stained
to any of the lighter shades by the addition
of stainers in oil or Berger’s Surtint liquid
stainer. It is not possible to convert a
white base to deep shades.
(1) Is it necessary to have the leaving
certificate to qualify for a course of train-
ing in massage in N. 8. Wales? (2) Length
of course? (3) Cost? (4) Where to learn?
—1165.
(1) Intermediate certificate is required.
(2) The course commences in March each
year and lasts 24 months. (3) Tuition fees
£B4 9s. 6d. It costs about £2O for books, in-
struments, uniforms, etc. (4) Instruction
is given at the Uni. and in the wards of
certain of the public hospitals. Australa-
sian Massage Association, 185 Elizabeth
street, Sydney, will advise you.
(1) Number and amount of wages paid
to Mate Government, employees in each of
the States and figures in respect to Federal
Government employees? (2) Estimated
population for each State for the year for
which figures are given? —976.
(1) As at .Time 30 1932: Commonwealth,
43.400 ( £10.200.000): N.S.W.. SO 869
(£l9 924.000): Vic.. 39.459 (£8.388.000):
Q’land, 25.308 (£5,756 000) ; S.A.. 14 880
(£3,200,000): W.A.. 13.770 (£3.066 000):
Tas.. 3625 (£698-000). (2) N.S.W.
2,526,345: Vie., 1.804,584: O'land, 965.9.34:
S.A.. 585,466; W.A., 421.562: and Tas..
221.584.
(1) Has a bar ever been awarded to the
winner of a Victoria Cross? (2) Instances?
—998.
(1) Yes. (2) Lieut. A. Martin-Leake,
R.A.M.C., and Captain N. G. Chavasse,
attached Liverpool Regiment.
(1) Prospects of Australians, 20 to 30,
getting employment in China in an execu-
tive capacity? (2) Prospects of securing
representation for an Australian firm trad-
ing with China? —1149.
(1) The Hongkong Government recently
stated that there are practically no oppor-
tunities of employment for Europeans in any
capacity anywhere in China. (2) Very-
slight. Such agencies are usually in the
hands of firms already there.
(1) Can a photograph be taken of a rain-
bow? I tried it with an Ilford S. G. Pan-
chromatic plate and Gamma screen, without
result. (2) What are “Infra Red ” rays?
(3) Which is the faster, the Ilford Soft
Gradation Panchromatic plate, or the new
Hod(ik Super-sensitive Panchromatic film?
(1) Rainbows have frequently been photo-
graphed. The plate and filter used should
with proper exposure have resulted in a rea-
sonably good record of what appeared to tli-
eye. Very frequently contrast filters, an-
used, either singly or with successive' ex-
pos tires, so that the green or the red end oi
the spec:rum or both in rotation are more
definitely recorded. The record in such eases
will not be true as regards color values, but
will make the rainbow very clearly visible ia
the landscape. (2) They are those rays
beyond the visible red in the spectrum. r l hey
may be recorded by using photographic
plates specially sensitised for the purpose.
(3) They are about equally sensitive to day-
light; but the Kodak plates and film will
be found more sensitive to the light ot un-
screened haif-watt lamps.
(I) In view of the fad that Australian
timber is not entirely suitable for pap<'i -
■makinu . would it not be feasible to use
straw / as is done in Italy? (2) Where could
I obtain particulars of the process and costs
in the Italian industry? (3) What progress
has been made in the establishment of a
paper mill in Tasmania? —1083.
(1) In the opinion of the Council tor
Scientific and Industrial Research Aus-
tralian timber is more suitable than Aus-
tralian straw. The cost of paper-making is
very largely a labor cost, and no doubt this
fact weighs considerably in Italy (2) lhe
process is well known and details could be
obtained from files of the “Paper 1 rude
Journal,” “Pulp and Paper Magazine and
the “Paper Maker.” The De Vams and
Catiildi processes are described in the Jour-
mil of lhe Council for Scientific and indus-
trial Research,” Yol. 1, page 21 s. 19-' .
Costs might possibly be secured through
the Italian Consul. (3) It is reported
that active operations will commence at an
early date.
(1) An ex-member of the A.1.F.. who
joined in 1914, was severely wounded, and
was discharged “A” class in 1919, but who
rcccired neither pension nor official medical
treatment, has died, from, causes which may
be attributable to his wound. Can his widow
obtain a pension? (2) In the case of death
from causes not attributable to the wound,
can his widow obtain a pension on the pica,
■ that the life of her husband had been short-
ened by war strain, on prod notion, of medical
opinion to this effect? (3) If the widow
can obtain a pension in any of the above
circumstances, what is the amount per
annum ? —997.
(1) and (2) .All cases are decided on the
evidence available. The widow should make
application to the Deputy-Commissioner of
Repatriation in the capital city of the State
in which she resides. If the cause of death
be not accepted as tlie result of war service,
the widow is not eligible for any benefits
under the Repat. Acts., 1920-31. (3)
Subject to acceptance of the cause of
death as due to war service, a widow
without dependent children under the age
of 10 would be eligible to receive from
475. to 84s. per fortnight, payment in excess
of 475. per fortnight being determined accord-
ing to her financial circumstances. If she
has dependent children under 10 the widow’s
rate would be S4s. per fortnight, with 20s.
per fortnight for the first child and 15s. per
fortnight for each other child.
Do you advise legal aid in drawing up a
will? / notice that a Judge recently re-
ferred to the risk of using printed will
forms? —1223.
There is little risk, if instructions are,
carefully complied with, in the case of a
straight-out bequest, such as “I leave all
my real and personal estate of whatsoever
kind to my wife. Elizabeth Smith,” but be-
yond this it is certainly advisable to have
the will drawn by a solicitor.
What is the meaning of the following sig-
nals often seen flying from the mast at
Garden Island (Sydney): (1) White flag,
(2) blue flag , (3) white and blue flag, (4)
white flag over white and blue flag, (5)
white and blue flag over white flag, (6)
white flag with black centre?- —1259.
(1) Fair weather, (2) rain, (3) local
rain. (4) rain to follow, (5) improving
weather, (6) cool change.
What arc ant-lions, and how do they cap-
ture their prey? —l269.
Strictly speaking, the name “ant-lion”
applies only to the larva* of a family (Mgr-
mcleontidw) of insects which are in general
short, oval, insectivorous grubs with promi-
nent mandibles, commonly found in sandy
.soil or on sea beaches, where they form
conical pits. At the apex of each pit lies
a single larva on the watch. Should an
ant fall into the pit the larva’s mandibles
quickly seize it; if it struggles to climb the,
shifting pitsides, the larva flicks up sand
to pelt it and bring it down within reach.
The adults somewhat resemble dragonflies,
with which they were formerly classified.
Their powers of flight are comparatively
feeble. Australia has a large number of
species, especially in the dry central dis-
tricts.
What are the “inalienable leases ” in
N.S.W.? —1266.
The term is used to signify that statu-
tory conditions deny to the leaseholder the
right to purchase any part of his lease or
to convert into a tenure involving the right
of purchase. The principal inalienable ten-
ures now in existence are ISth Section and
Pastoral Leases, Forestry Leases and Occu-
pation Permits. Snow Leases. Mineral and
Auriferous Leases, Occupation Licenses,
Permissive Occupancy and Church and
School Lands Leases.
What reptiles are there in Papua? —l2o7.
Crocodiles are common in the larger
streams. Loggerhead, hawksbill and green
turtles occur along the coasts, the hawks-
bill furnishing the tortoise-shell of com-
merce. Monitor lizards, often miscalled
iguanas, are represented by several species
Skinks and geckos are numerous. The
latter group includes the little house lizards
which live on mosquitoes and other insects.
Snakes are common, the poisonous species
being outnumbered by the harmless ones.
Death adders, whip-snakes and handed sea-
snakes are among the venomous species.
Pythons, reaching a length of up to 20ft..
are the largest serpents of the region, and
are non-venomous. The allied carpet-snakes
are quite common.
How can the albacurc fish be identified?
Is it common in Australian waters?— l26B.
It belongs to the family of Scombridw,
and is closely allied to the tunny, but is
distinguished from that species by its much
longer pectoral fins. The albacare attains
a length of 4ft., and is distributed over all
warm seas. Australian included. It is
almost worthless as food.
Brief Answers.
T.P.: In evidence given before the Tariff
Board, landed cost into store of 16oz. sheet glass
was given as just under £2 per box. This does
not make allowance- for breakage, which in some
shipments is considerable. Selling price, which
ranges from 545. Cd. upwards, is therefore not
abnormal.... K.P.: Write Director, Civil Aviation
Branch, Defence Dept., Melbourne. . .'.WAV.H.: From
International Correspondence Schools, 140 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.... C.T.: “Austral English’’ was com-
piled by Edward Ellis Morris, one-time Professor of
Modern Languages and Literature at Melb. Uni. It
is a dictionary of Australian words, phrases and
usages.... 5.8. : The first intercolonial amateur scul-
ling race was decided on the Yarra on March 11,
1868, when Arthur Nicholls defeated II Freeman,
of Sydney, by six lengths... .A.M.W.: No method can
be recommended for taking kangaroos and wallabies
alive, except building a race or enclosure for capture.
The animals are protected. A list of the districts
open for the taking or killing of protected animals
may be obtained from the Chief Secretary’s Depart-
ment, Sydney... .MID.; If it is desired to register
the words only of a song, the application should be
made out for a literary work; if it is desired to
register words and music, the application should
be made out for a musical work D.J. : Detailed
information is furnished in the report of the Regis-
trar of Friendly Societies and Trade Unions, N.S.W.
Government Printer, Sydney, 2s C.M.R.: During
the 26 years ended with 1930 there were eight
executions in Vic., one of which took place in 1908,
one in 1912, two in 1910, two in 1918, one in- 1922
and one in 1924. Since the first settlement of Port
Phillip, 176 criminals have been executed: four
females... .H.T.: No Sydney dealers have these coins.
Write to Spink and Son, 5 King-street, St. James’s,
London, S.W.I. .. .Euroa: Presume you mean the
Straits Settlements dollar. It has a face value of
two shillings. Easily obtainable from most Sydney
coin-dealers. .. .E.H.L.;. The charge may be chal-
lenged on the ground that expenses incurred were
incidental to supervision and payable out of sum
allowed for it A. 8.. Probably the footvalve
and strainer attached to the pump tubing has become
jambed in casing by incrustation. Withdraw tubing
and casing ; the former will probably be found to be
pitted through and therefore useless for re-insertion.
Inspection and replacement is a job for an expert.
. ...M.D.: Planting 18in. apart, you would require
10,000 plants for half an acre, and this would pro-
bably be as much as one man could look after.
There is generally a good demand for well-grown
carnations. Probably half an acre would provide
a fair living for the greater part of tin year
E.F.P.: Write to the Colonial Secretary, Port Louis,
Mauritius. .. .D.H.8.: As the person carting the
hay supplies his own plant and employs labor, the
tax should not be deducted from payments made to
him. .. .P.Q.R.: (1) if the income received for
each of the years ended June' 30, 1931, and June
30, 1932, from all sources in- this State was less
than £lOO, returns need not be furnished for State
purposes, unless called for. (2) See reply to V.V.,
which follows. .. . V.V.: “Income,’’ as defined in the
N.S.W. Unemployment Relief Act, 1930, includes
income within the meaning of the Income Tax
(Management) Act, 1928, and “all income derived
by a resident of the State from any sou'ree outside
the State and otherwise than from the carrying
on of any trade or business, not being an investment
business”... .F.C.A.: Walter Jardine, Kembla Build-
ings, Margaret-street, Sydney A.A.S.: (1) Rates
are levied on the unimproved value of land as
determined by the Valuer-General (N.S.W.). What
the rate shall be rests with the local Shire or
Municipal Council. The Water and Sewerage
Board levies its own rate on the same basis. (2)
and (3) The Torrens principle in the transfer of land
is embodied in the Real Property Act (N.S.W.).
It is the safest for house buyers. .. .DAY.: (1) The
rate of N.S.W. State income tax where the taxable
income of a co. is under £lOO is 2s. in the £.
For Federal income tax purposes the rate is Is. 4.8 d.
in the £ on all incomes. (2) Unemployment Relief
Tax is charged on the whole of the income from
employment, (and other sources) of the individual
members of a co. and the co. is also taxable on
its profits. .. .P.J.C.: (1) Members of the N.S.W.
Legislative Council, other than the president and
chairman of committees, receive no salaries. (2)
They are supplied with free passes, on State railways
and tramways. (3) The seats of members become
vacant by death, resignation, absence, accepting
foreign allegiance, bankruptcy, accepting public con-
tracts, or by criminal conviction... .F.L. : (1)
Submit full particulars to various printers and
obtain quotations. (2) Yes. . . .E.F.G.H.: Don’t
know of a buyer. Rest plan would be to advertise.
They should be worth at least their published price
plus cost of binding: .. .E.C'.D.: Write E. A. Nettle-
fold, 19 O’Connell-street, Sydney... .E.F.G.W.: If
the coin is in mint condition it is worth Is. ; if
in average condition, 6d L.G.: (1) Specimen
submitted too small for accurate determination.
Send a larger specimen, including fruits, to Techno-
logical Museum, Harris-street, Sydney, for identifi-
cation. (2) See Bulletin No. 4, “Guide to the
Extraction of Eucalyptus Oil in the Field,” obtain-
able from Technological Museum, Sydney, 7d., posted.
. ...A.8.M.: The correct answer was 2795 and the
first prize was awarded to William Mansfield, Bay-
view-road, Belgrave (Vic.) ... .A.K.: The coin is a
George IV. farthing and is worth 3d. to 4d., accord-
ing to condition. .. .R.C.P.: Question vague. Submit
particulars to Tax Dept., Perth, W.A
R.S.: Consult a. skin specialist first. Know
nothing about firm mentioned... .J.M.: N.S.W.
State Superannuation Fund figures for year
ended June 30, 1932, not yet available. Super-
annuation Board’s report for 1931 is issued by
N.S.W. Government Printer, Is. 3d A.L.H.: (1)
The McCormick-Deering separator is made in North
America. (2) District agent of any of the machines
on the market will advise... .M.M.N.: “Poultry
Farming in N.SAV.,” by lames Hadlington, N.S.W.
Government Printer, 4s. 6d G.L.A.: (1) Yes.
(2) Address contributions to Editor. (3) Pay-
ment is made after publication on receipt of claim
from contributor, who must inform the account-
ant, as to issue, page and column... .V.E.8.: Write
Technological Museum, Harris-street, Sydney, for
pamphlet “Tung Oil,” Is R.M.: (1) The Micro-
scopical Society, care Royal Society, Victoria-street,
Melbourne. (2) N. H. Seward, 457 Bourke-street,
Melbourne ... ..J.R.; Impossible to answer all vour
questions in the space at our disposal. Read Emil
Ludwig’s “July. 1914”.. . .W. 8.: The first is a
Finnish stamp, the second is a “postage due” Hun-
garian, the third is from Upper Silesia. All
catalogued at Id. each... .D.S.A.: The N.S.W.
Governor’s normal term of office is five years.
His salary is £5OOO p.a., which, with certain allow-
ances, is provided under the Constitution Act out of
the revenues of the State. As from June, 1931, Sir
Philip Game returned 25 p.c. of his salary to the
Treasury... .JAV.B.: The N.S.W. prohibition refer-
endum held on Sept. 1, 1928, the question being,
“Are you in favor of prohibition with compensa-
tion?” resulted: Yes. 357,684; No, 896,752;
Informal, 18,683. The referendum cost £54,902.
.... (Manv others mailed.)


DOPE
By-
GRNTLEY LORRENS
Synopsis: Ernest William Johns,
At. A. (/won., cocaine addict and desti-
tute, saves Etty Smith from a
half-breed’s knife in a Sydney water-
front “dive." Aboard the Surf
Queen, he accepts her father’s offer
of a job, and Etty helps him to fight his
craving. Fay Campbell, on a cruise in
her father’s steam yacht, Arethusa, visits
Etty—and Johns meets his ideal. That
night, inspired by Varley, one-time
medical student, now the cook, who
loves Etty, Johns deserts, stow-
ing away in the Arethusa’s life-boat.
He hears Fay discuss him, and she
scarcely conceals her interest in him
from her father. Racked by his crav-
ing, Johns sneaks ashore at Zandavar
to Varley’s friend, Wooden Charlie,
who gives him dope and, later, a job.
Meeting Fay ostensibly by accident
before she sails, Johns confesses his
weakness; she is sure lie will con-
quer it. To give Johns an opportunity
of concentrating on writing his “great
book." Charlie is arranging to sell
his joint when a drink-crazed Yankee
shoots him. _ The place catches fire.
Johns drags Charlie’s body from the
ruins. Blindly escaping from the
crowd, he is attacked by but shoots a
garrotter. Johns collapses into a
house. Flora, who keeps it, persuades
Captain Gibbons, whom she has refused
to marry, to take her and Johns aboard
the Spindrift. Eight months pass.
The strain of looking after Johns,
now cured, has taken toll of Flora—
she is consumptive. Conscious-stricken,
he proposesso does Gibbons. Flora
accepts Gibbons. Johns is knocked
unconscious during a storm, which
leaves the Spindrift derelict. They
are picked up by the Sylvania. Flora
collapses, but the liner’s medico gives
Gibbons some hope that she may pull
through,
BOOK IV—THE SYLVAN!A.
Chapter II (Continued).
THE stewardess appeared at the door.
“Right.” The ship’s surgeon put his
hand on Gibbons’s shoulder. “Go out on
deck,” he said gently. “I’ll find you there
when I’m through and let you know. No
good hanging about here, old man. She’ll
have to be fixed up afterwards —treatment,
you know; hot-water bottles and so on—
and I’ll have to help. So don’t expect me
for a while. Not like a hospital, these
boats, you know. Damn it, they only give
you half the things you need. These Board
of Trade regulation kits” He broke off
with a sharp laugh. “Pity the owners don’t
have to get treated on board!” he added
grimly as he turned towards the door where
the stewardess was still waiting.
Gibbons came out on deck just in time
to see the boat returning on its second trip.
The mate and the Kanakas were crowded
into it, and the unconscious Johns iay with
his head on the mate’s knees.
The Second ran up the accommodation-
ladder and pushed his way through the
crowding passengers. Gibbons felt oddly
grateful to Johns. He had become the cyno-
sure of attention. The crowd had already
forgotten, for the time at least, the man
and the girl who had come aboard first, so
that he could lean against the rail unpest-
ered and stare, in half-dazed comprehen-
sion, at the hulk which wallowed in the
ocean, its ugliness still emphasised by the
glare of the searchlight.
So that was the Sprindrift, or all that
remained of her! That was what a man
could be left with after ten years of hard
work—if the ocean chose to make it so!
A hulk! So much useless wood!
A voice, calling his name, saved him
from too much introspection. A steward
was paging him, walking along the detk
and calling his name every few paces. He
waited until the man was opposite him
before he announced himself.
“Captain wants to see you on the bridge,
sir.” The steward was half-obsequious—
as though he found it difficult to shake off
a life-long habit—and half-supercilious. He
had sailed for twenty years on big ton-
nage, and the captain of a tiny windjammer
should, of course, be made to realise his
relative position.
Gibbons followed him in silence to the
bridge.
“Ah, Captain!” There was no loftiness
about the master’s greeting. He gave the
newcomer his hand. He was of the old
school, and he had started, thirty years
and more before, on a windjammer him-
self, and before the mast. Even the know-
ledge that there could be no salvage, with
its handy percentage for himself, made no
difference. He was welcoming' a brother
master mariner. The steward looked on
half angrily.
“I wanted your opinion about the vessel,”
he went on. "Mr. Williams tells me that
she is a total loss. I wanted your confir-
mation of that. These hulks—they’re a
menace to shipping, don’t you think? And
they always seem to stick to the trade
routes.”
Gibbons nodded. The other was trying
to make it easier for him—trying to let
him down as lightly as he could. It was
obvious what he was leading up to, of
course. Gibbons schooled himself to say yes.
The captain of the liner put his hand
sympathetically on the other’s shoulder.
“I know it must be pretty hellish for
you,” he said, and his voice was a little
husky. The sea makes stronger bonds of
understanding than any other walk of life.
“But I think we ought to blow her up.”
He paused uncomfortably, and looked
away, out over the ocean.
Automatically Gibbons’s eyes sought the
Southern Cross.
“Yes.” His voice was unemotional, flat.
“Yes I suppose it would be best.”
The skipper squeezed his arm but said
nothing. Suddenly he caught sight of the
steward still standing by the companion.
“What the hell are you doing here?” he
bellowed at him, finding an easy vent for
his pent-up emotions. “Where’s the hot
coffee? God Almighty, I always thought
you were a fool!” (In Lloyd’s agencies and
other foregathering places of mariners the
captain was won’t to boast of his jewel
of a steward!) “Spring to it, you gawking
dog’s belly! D’you think Captain Gibbons
is going to starve to suit your blasted con-
venience!”
A moment later he chuckled softly.
“Who’d be a steward?” he asked of Gib-
bons, and Gibbons chuckled back. They
each had a sense of relief. The captain had
circumnavigated an emotional crisis.
“Williams will see to your mate and the
crew,” he went on. “And the quack’s busy
with the other two—he’ll be up to report
presently, I expect.”
“I promised to wait for him on deck.”
Stephen Gibbons was suddenly back in the
present. The Spindrift was, after all, of
the past—her day was done. But not so
Flora. “I’d better get back.”
“I’ll send down for him.” The captain
waved aside the difficulty. “He’ll come
straight up here then as soon as he’s fin-
ished with them.”
Gibbons sensed the unspoken question as
the other’s voice trailed off. But he lacked
the energy just then to explain matters.
It would be a long job, and it could wait
until the morning.
He followed the captain into his living
quarters below the bridge. The steward,
obliging now to the point of servility, was
waiting with the coffee simmering on an
electric ring, and, at a gesture from his
master, produced a bottle of rum. The
captain poured a generous allowance into
his guest’s cup.
“There’ll be a bed made up for you in
my dressing-room by the time you’ve had
a meal,” he said. “I think, if you’re wise,
you’ll turn in straightway—unless you
want to see the last of her.” He nodded
towards the porthole.
“No!” Gibbons shook his head vehem-
ently. “I’d rather not.”
The young medico came in while Gib-
bons was still eating. As usual, he was
the only privileged person on board. He
sat down without waiting for an invitation
from the master.
“The chap’s all right,” he announced in
answer to the captain’s look of inquiry.
“Just a knock on the head. Mild concus-
sion. Better in the morning. Bar a head-
ache. But the other one” He paused
expectantly, and looked at Gibbons. But
when the expected words did not come he
went on, a little awkwardly: “The lady is
pretty dicky. She may pull through—but
she’s only got one lung to breathe with,
and she’s lost a lot of blood. Have to wait
and see how she gets through the night.”
Stephen Gibbons continued eating metho-
dically. But just before he turned in, amt
when the doctor had gone, he said to the
captain of the Sylvania:
“I want to get married to-morrow.”
Then he stopped abruptly. He had a
choking sensation in his throat, and there
seemed nothing further to add.
Nor did the other say anything, beyond
a rather uncomfortable, “Tell us in the
morning, old man.”
And Gibbons, with a little nod that w r as
as much gratitude as assent, turned towards
the dressing-room where the bed had
already been made up for him.
Chapter 111.
Ernest William Johns, M.A. Oxon., stared
drowsily at the white ceiling and listened
idly to the -soft voices
of the daw 7 n at sea.
The crew had not yet
commenced their
holystoning, and the
only sounds were of
the quiet, smoothly-
running engines and
the subdued rattling
of the water carafe in
its rack. For a long
time he lay quietly,
still only half-awake,
the significance of his
new surroundings not
yet making itself
apparent.
At first he fancied himself back in the
old days. The bad old days when the
cocaine had had him down, • and the first
step in the process of self-orientation was
the realisation that his supra-orbital nerves
were not the site of the throbbing in his
head. Nor was there any of the old crying
out of drug-starved nerves throughout the
body.
He remembered that once before he had
made that same discovery, but that had
been—how long ago? And it had been on
board the Spindrift, when he had awakened
to think at first that he had been on board
the Arethusa. And now—there was the
throbbing of engines!
Vague glimpses of memory came back to
him —mere flashes, tantalising in their in-
definiteness. He recalled standing in the
cabin, talking to Flora, just as the storm
broke. Then there came another glimpse
of himself —irritably shaking off the hand
of some stranger in uniform, and Flora
standing in the half-light by the cabin door
as he stumbled towards her.
He tried to put two and two together, to
piece into a comprehensible whole the series
of memoi'ies. But he was still too drowsy ;
and he dropped off to sleep again with his
problems unsolved.
When next he wakened it w T as to find
a young man in uniform standing by his
bunk.
“Well, how are things now?”
Johns studied his interrogator for a
moment.
“Oh, you’re the doctor, are you?” he
asked at length. “I’m well enough, thank
you—except for a headache. Where am I?”
“S.S. Sylvania.” The young doctor’s eyes
were studying his patient interestedly. “In-
ward bound for Zandavar. Get there the
day after to-morrow. Let’s have a look at
you.”
He ran over the other rapidly—knee-
jerks, pupil reactions and other reflexes that
Johns did not know.
“Well, what about getting up? There’s
a visitor waiting to see you.”
Johns nodded, but he made no effort to
move. He wanted to know a little more
about his coming there. But before he could
speak the other, who had been studying
him interestedly all this time, asked an-
other question.
“You’re a ’Varsity man, aren’t you?”
Johns nodded.
“Well, if it’s not too rude a question,
what were you doing on that little tub
we took you off last night?”
“Oh!” Johns was astonished. It seemed
an aeon since he had been watching
Flora sitting on his bunk, waiting for him
to speak. “Oh, it was only last night, was
it?” He suddenly remembered that the
other had asked him a question. “Yes,
Oxford. But never mind me. How 7 is
Flora and Gibbons?”
“Captain Gibbons is waiting outside now
—until I tell him he can come in.” The
medico’s eyes twinkled as though at some
joke—he was still young enough to find a
certain amusement at times in exercising
his not long-worn authority. “And Flora—
by whom I expect you mean the lady who
was brought aboard by Gibbons —is doing
as well as can be expected. I think myself
she’s going to make a do of it.”
Johns stared at him. He had an odd
sense of strangulation. His heart found
difficulty in maintaining its rhythm. He
jerked himself on to his elbow 7 .
“Make ado of it? What do you mean?”
The doctor pushed him back on to his
pillows.
“Gently, old man I forgot you didn’t
know 7 . She had a bad haemorrhage last
night. A haemoptysis—her lung. She’s got
a cavity in it the size of a hen’s egg. But
she’s rallied wonderfully, considering. As
a matter of fact, she seemed more con-
cerned about you than herself a few
minutes ago.”
Johns nodded. “Yes, that’s like Flora—•
to think of others first.”
But his mind was oppressed with the reah
isation that she was sick, that the trouble
which he had dreaded for her had come at
last. And he wondered what had brought
it on. He had an unpleasant presentiment
—and this was not lessened when he put
his question to the other.
The young medico shrugged and spread
his hands. “Probably the excitement.”
He w 7 as glad that he had seen Flora first
that morning. She had been so insistent
that Johns should know nothing of the
cause of the haemorrhage. He wondered
what would have happened if he had told
Johns that she had got the haemorrhage in
trying to save him.
“Probably the excitement,” he repeated.
“The storm and the rescue, you know. All
very dramatic—might easily have done it.
And, anyway, it had to happen sooner or
later.” He tapped the edge of the bunk
to emphasise his words. “My dear chap,
God only knows how she has dodged it as
long as she has.”
But his emphasis, to John’s uncomfort-
able mind, was a little too marked, and
he got himself out of the cabin a little too
quickly. He had not yet learned the art
oi evading awkward questions so well as
he would with another ten years of experi-
ence, and Johns shrewdly divined he was
not anxious to be exposed to further in-
quiries.
Gibbons came in almost immediately.
“Good man, Johnny!” he greeted him.
“You don’t look too bad at all this morn-
ing.”
“Steve”—John waived all small talk—
“what about Flora? Is she going to be all
right?”
Gibbons nodded. “I think so. The
quack says so, too. But I’m going on intu-
ition, rather. You know, Johnny, I always
felt that it would happen. The bleeding, I
mean. And, now that it has, I feel just, as
sure that she’ll get over it. She’s got to!’
he added wistfully.
Johns nodded. “Yes, she’s got to.” He
caught the other’s arm. “Steve, it was I
who caused it, wasn’t it? I’ve got that feel-
ing—she was doing something for me?”
Gibbons nodded slowly and stared at
Johns. “She didn’t want you to know.
Johnny; but I reckon it’s only fair to you
—and to her—to tell you.”
He told Johns about the swinging port,
about the girl’s efforts to get him on to
his bunk, and how, later, she had tried to
hold him up when he had insisted on trying
to walk alone.
Johns heard him out in silence. And
when the other’s voice at length ceased
there was a stillness in the cabin, so that
the carafe, with its incessant, diffident rat-
tling, was able to make itself heard again.
It was Johns who finally broke the
silence. There were tears in his eyes, and
he made no effort to conceal them. He
was not ashamed of them.
“Steve, there’s not a whiter woman than
Flora in the world. What does it matter
how she may have earned her living once?
That’s all in the past —dead. A man would
be honored to be her husband.”
The other nodded soberly. “I’m glad to
hear you sav that, Johnny. I feel that
way, too. But I’m glad to have your
opinion agree with mine. It’s worth more
than mine, in some wavs—you’re disinter-
ested, and you can weigh these things better
than me.” (
“It’s not a matter of education, Steve.
Education’s got nothing to do with it. It’s
just commonsense. Anyway, education
wouldn’t help there. It’s only when people
have been up against things—like you and
I have—that they learn to evaluate that
sort of thing. And, anyway, Gibby, I’m not
disinterested—because I’m going to ask
Flora to marry me.”
Again the silence magnified the carafe’s
tinkling. Johns was not looking at Gib-
bons, and the captain of the Spindrift was
staring at the porthole.
“Steve” It was Johns again who broke
the silence. He had turned to look at the
other, and he had caught an expression in
Gibbons’s eyes that set his pulses racing-
in an odd excitement. “Steve, what is it?
Gibbons turned suddenly towards him.
“Johnny, do you love Flora?”
“Of course I do!” Johns had an intan-
gible impression that he was listening to
himself trying to justify his decision, and
the defence rang oddly untrue. “Of course
I do! God, hasn’t she done everything
for me? Saved me from the cocaine, given
me the chance to write my book —and
nearly killed herself trying to save me from
injury? Of course 1 love her!”
“Johnny, you’re not confusing gratitude
with love, are you?”
Johns stared at the other. The question
coming on top of his own introspective
probings, startled him. Gibbons had laid
his finger on the very doubt that Johns
himself had been striving to subdue.
“And, Johnny, there’s Fay.”
Gibbons was looking at him eagerly,
almost pleadingly.
“What about Fay, Johnny? She’s more
in your class. And, besides, Flora mightn’t
love you; she mightn’t want to marry you.”
Johns was on the point of blurting our
the last words that Flora had said to him
on board the Spindrift before the storm
broke. The last word, rather—the whis-
pered “darling.”
“Steve, for Heaven’s sake —what are you
trying to hint at?”
Gibbons took a restless turn up and down
the cabin. He hated the idea of disappoint-
ing his friend, although he had a deep-
rooted conviction that his news would be
no disappointment, but he had to get things
clear. And he was not going to give up
Flora.
“Johnny!” He paused by the side of
the bunk. “Johnny, old man, just before
the storm broke Flora promised, if ever we
got through alive, that she’d marry me. I
thought she would have told you that.”
Memory rushed back to Johns. In the
cabin, just before the port had hit him.
Flora had started to say something. So
that was it! His* thoughts raced madly.
He was not quite sure what his sensations
were. It would need time to think things
out, to analyse his mind, to know where
he stood.
He did not like owing debts of gratitude.
Marriage and constant care of her while
she lived would have wiped it out a little;
it would have been a small repayment. But


V
f
i
i
*
Agents
In All States and
New Zealand
V*
S V
Passengers to England by the fast
oil-burning steamers of the P. & O.
Branch Service enjoy the full One
Class range of accommodation,
steel swimming baths, cinema
shows, and excellent menus. One
and two berth cabins are available.
Fare from £3B to England
Subject to Exchange
P&O
BRANCH SERVICE
she had promised to marry Gibbons—and
there was Fay; Fay the unattainable!
Suddenly he raised himself on his elbow
and squeezed Gibbons’s arm.
“Steve, I’m glad! You deserve her, and
you’ll make her happier than I could. You’ll
let me be ‘best man’?”
Gibbons’s face glowed.
“Johnny, I knew it was that way. I
knew you’d see things like 1 do. And that
was what I came for. To ask you if you’d
be my ‘best man’—to-day!” His voice
suddenly grew sombre. “This morning,
Johnny—she asked me to marry her to-day
—in case she doesn’t get better. The
captain’s marrying us in half an hour.”
Johns sat up in his bunk. “I’ll be ready,”
he said eagerly. “And, Steve, don’t worry!
She’s going to get better, I know she will!”
Chapter IV.
Although Gibbons left him almost im-
mediately, it was ten minutes later when
Johns started to dress.
They had been ten minutes of deep and
searching self-analysis. He was at a loss
to explain his own psychology. The two
elements warred in his brain, so that he
could come to no conclusion. Now that
he knew, now that the die was definitely
cast and Floi*a was going beyond his reach,
lie had to admit to himself that, deep
down, he was relieved; immensely relieved.
And yet he found it hard to correlate his
present attitude of mind with that of so
few minutes ago, when he had been able to
look forward with equanimity to the idea
of marrying Flora himself.
But, as he dressed, he found his spirits
mounting steadily. He had the sensation
of having had some severe strain removed.
“But what, in the name of God, is it?”
he asked himself over and over again. “It’s,
not the idea of dodging matrimony—you
were resigned to that all right. But”
It was always there that he stopped in
his ruminations. There was always that
“but” to circumnavigate.
Now, however, there was only the one
idea in his mind. He was free! And Fay
was somewhere in the world!
It was Gibbons, knocking at the door,
who pulled his musing up abruptly.
“Hey, Johnny, we’re waiting on you!”
The usually impassive voice of the erst-
while captain of the Spindrift was vibrant.
He was like a schoolboy in his eagerness
and his nervousness. Johns followed him
along the alley way and into the ship’s
hospital, which had been made gay with
strips of bunting, draped flags and artificial
flowers. The stewardess, beaming with ex-
citement, was hovering over the bed where
Flora lay. It had been her doing, the
decorations, and she was on tip-toe to
assist at this romantic wedding. She
nodded pleasantly as she saw the two men
at the door.
“Now I can send for the captain,” she
said in a relieved voice, as though she had
been afraid that the proceedings might
have fallen through at the last moment.
Johns walked over to the bunk. He was
appalled at the change in Flora. On the
Spindrift she had looked sick, but now she
looked ghastly. Not a vestige of color
lighted the whiteness of her face, and her
lips seemed pinched and blue. By contrast
her hair had grown more gloriously golden,
and her eyes, with their violet shadows
matched by the semicircles beneath the
lower lids, reminded him poignantly of Fay.
But, though her face was deathly, her
eyes were not. Deep and luminous, there
glowed within them a light that Johns had
never seen before. Once, in the sordid
sitting-room in Zandavar, he had had a
glimpse of it, he remembered, a promise
of what might be. It was the soul of her,
the unconquerable spirit that lighted her
eyes and turned them into pools of mystery.
It gave him the odd sense of seeing beyond
the veil—it w*as as though he was looking,
not at Flora, of the Spindrift, or of the
sitting-room, but at a Flora aetherealised.
so that all traces of corporeal life had fled,
leaving only the immortal Ego.
“Hello, Johnny,” she smiled, and he had
to bend low over the bed to catch her
words. “I’m glad you’re all right.”
She moved orie hand across the white
counterpane and Johns took it in both of
his. She gave a little sigh, as of content.
;and closed her eyes. The coldness of her
hand struck a sudden terror into his heart.
She could not get better—surely, he thought
in a sudden wave of despair, surely no one
could be so cold, and yet recover! It was
as though the slow processes of Death had
already begun their work, a.nd only the
intense vitality of her spirit kept the rest
of her alive. Fragments of a poem that
had impressed him strongly when he read
it flashed through his mind. It had been
by some obscure poet, a sonnet tucked away
in a remote corner of a cheap magazine,
and yet it held a haunting poignancy.
“So this is Death!.... Though quiet you
lie, and still” it had begun. The body of
the sonnet escaped his memory, but tin
last four lines of it came back to him
with startling vividness as he held that
cold hand, and looked unhappily at the
delicate blue tracery of veins in the heavv
lids:
I‘Half waking, you would turn your lips to
■ mine
As oft you did in those dear years now
■ gone,
And whisper words of love in softest breath
■While I knelt quietly by And this is
Death?”
Almost, he could imagine that Flora, too,
was dead—that he might stand there quietly
by, waiting patiently for her to speak—
and wait in vain. Onfy the faint, almost
imperceptible rhythm of her breathing told
him that she still lived.
The silence in the cabin—Johns refused
to call it “ward”—was absolute; the three
of them might have been graven images as
they waited for the captain. It was with a
sense of relief that Johns heard footsteps
coming along the alley way.
The captain entered first, then the young
medico, and finally the stewardess, her face
beaming .more joyously than ever.
It was the doctor who spoke. “You
mustn’t, excite her, whatever you do,” he
commanded in, a low voice. He went to
the bed and felt the girl’s pulse. Flora
opened her eyes and smiled at him.
“I’m all right,* she whispered. “And I’ll
be good!”
She squeezed Johns’s hand, and then
turned her eyes in search of Gibbons.
“Ready, Steve,” she told him and lifted
her left hand. He came forward and took
it, with rough tenderness, in his.
“As quick as you like, skipper,” the
medico whispered; and throughout the
ceremony he kept a finger on his patient’s
pulse. And when the ring was on her
finger and the captain on his way to the
door, he pulled out his watch.
“Two minutes,” he cautioned Gibbons.
“And not a second more! She’s going to
get well, remember —with plenty of rest.”
Flora signalled to Johns with her eyes
and as he again came to the bunk she
smiled at him.
“I’m going to get well,” she ’whispered
to him, and her eyes sought her husband
as he stood near .the door with the doctor.
“And I’m going to make him very nearly
as happy as Fay will make you, Johnny—•
darling!”
Again the word came softly, in an even
lower whisper than the rest of her words,
so that it was almost inaudible. And, a
moment later, a.s he walked thoughtfully
along the alley way towards the deck, Johns
was in two minds as to whether lie had
heard it, or merely dreamed it again.
He made his way out on to the deck.
It was not the promenade deck, and he
was able to lean in solitude over the rail.
Above him he could hear the monotonous
sound of the passengers taking their after-
breakfast exercise and he guessed what
would have been his fate if he had appeared
there. He had no desire for the sycophantic
curiosity of bored passengers. He was in
no mood to retail the story of the loss of
the Spindrift. Nor could he have done so,
except at second-hand.
(To he continued next week.)
The Queen Penelope.
Dark is the grave and cold and deep:
The Queen Penelope does but sleep, >
The Queen Penelope whose mouth is
Warmer and redder than red roses.
Brief is life and swift comes death:
They hold a mirror to her breath,
The Queen Penelope, whose hands
Held sceptre over men and lands.
O, still and strange and cold she lies,
1 lor pale lids over her blue eyes ;
Her bosom is an ivory tower,
White candles burn within her bower:
Tall candles burn whose golden fire
Is not more golden than her hair,
Tall candles wdiose white wax is now
Not paler than her uncrowned brow.
Her hands are crossed upon her breast,
The Queen Penelope is at rest;
The Queen Penelope is asleep,
Dark is her grave and cold and deep.
ENG! AND.
D. P. McGUIRE.
Silence Sings.
Let us lie and dream while our campfire’s
light
Red-flickers on leaf and bough-:
For veiled are the stars and veiled is the
moon,
And Silence is with us now.
As alone she walks through the musing trees,
Alone through the valley-ways.
Oh, sweet is the peace sin* sheds o’er the
gloom.
And sweet are the words she says;
“Hush, hush ! ’Tis night.in the Bush,
And never a sound is heard;
For mute is the magpie, and mute is, the
thrush,
And mute is the butcher-bird.”
Bet us drink .of peace, in tin 1 velvet gloom
With nought in the world to fear,
For good is the air, and good is the hour,
And Silence is biding near.
Oh, as feathers her feet arc light on the
grass
Where softly the dewdrop clings.
And sweet is her breath as a flower is sweet,
And sweet is the song she sings :
“Hush, liush! ’Tis night in the Bush,
And under the skies of grey
All still is the magpie, and still is the thrush,
And still is the strife of day.”
Oh, a dark, dark lady is she, we know,
A mystic lady who keeps
A tryst with the wakeful souls of men
When Sound for the moment sleeps.
And now where the firefly lights his lamp,
And now where the shadows throng,
She takes her way through the leafy scene
With ever a secret song;
“Hush, hush! ’Tis night in the Bush,
’Neath gum-tree and pine and oak;
And hush, and, oh, hush, till Dawn with her
blush
Awakens the forest folk!”
x.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
fsd
SCHUTE,
BELL &C Li*
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Sired, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
fs
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Bool:let Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Oauitieia,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
df
sdf
sdf
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Amusements.
1. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
Williamson Imperial Grand Opera Co.
KING’S THEATRE:
DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE and her English Co. in
Captain Brassbound’s Conversion.
4
COMPOUND ESSENCE
OF LINSEED
COUGH*
\/ISITORS to Broken Hill are often surprised
to And on reaching their metropolitan
homes that they have read later important news
in “THE BARRIER MINER’’ than was pub-
lished in the metropolitan evening papers of
the same date. The second edition, published
at 7 o’clock, contains half a large page of
the world’s freshest news.
The people of Famous Broken Hill and its
great hinterland, have had the best and latest
news in “The Barrier Miner” for the past
44 years.
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
"The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from "The Bulletin” Office,
all States.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The A.J.C. had a lovely early-spring day
for its meeting at Warwick Farm on Satur-
day, and it had the big field of 21 for the
Denham Court Handicap. And there were
some classy horses among them: < Holdfast,
the topweight, a winner at Rosehill a week
before; Pentheus and Concentrate, both a
bit above themselves, and racing out of their
distance; Burracootboo and Rogilla. Ques-
tionnaire was favorite at fours; Holdfast
eased from the same price to sixes, and
sixes was also Burracootboo’s price. He
soon demonstrated that a spell had improved
him, for he was out in front, with Holdfast
beaten off and the race won, at the home
turn. But Rogilla (8 to 1) put in a brilliant
late run which carried him into second
place, a head behind Burracootboo, and the
bookmakers straightway shortened his quota-
tions for the Epsom and Metrop. He has
Bst. 41b. in the mile and 7st. 131 b. in the
mile and five furlongs, and the stable mission
is uncertain. Questionnaire was a fair
third. Burracootboo, who was ridden by
James, carved out the “six” in lmin. 13see.
He has Bst. 21b. in the Epsom, and is now in
some demand for it.
O’Rourke gave Lightfoot the mount on
Ramrod (6 to 1) in the Farm Novice Han-
dicap, and the youngster adopted more
patient tactics with the Spearhead—Ramson
gelding than previous jockeys had tried.
The result was eminently satisfactory to the
stable and to those backers who had re-
mained constant to “F. Smithden’s” horse;
but Magnitas (9 to 2) was doing a bit
better than the winner over the final fur-
long of 30, run in 2min. lOsec., after having
been badly placed at the entrance to the
Bert' 1 cant understand it^
Gert I " What ?"
Bert '"Why I havent been aske.o to take
PART IM the Olympic e&mesT
CaERT I'Because ,tmecse& no eqs-ano
spoon Race on the PPo&RAMHe.
straight. He is by Magpie—Saintly Ida, and
looks a rather more taking sort than Ram-
rod, though both may be winning in better
company before the season is out. Sir
Morion (7 to 1) was third.
McShortodds has a wholesome respect for
Dermid, now racing in J. A. Donohue’s
colors, and those seeking to back the gelded
sou of Tippler—No Belle for the August
Handicap had to be content with twos. Yet
it was Dermid’s first attempt over the dis-
tance, , 10 furlongs, and his recent efforts
had been at six furlongs. Davidson, on
Valparaiso (9 to 2), lightened the favorite’s
task by going to the front and slowing the
field down. This did not suit his own horse,
who like.s a strong pace; and at the finish
the old fellow was a feeble fourth, Dermid
winning at his ease from Gleaner (14 to 1).
who had been left lengths at the start, and
Don Moon, now in his eleventh year. It
was a peculiar sort of race. Dermid was
certainly nicely handicapped at 31b. less than
his Epsom weight, which is Bst. 91b. Cook,
at tin- head of the jockey list last season,
rode him.
A commission on New King was the
feature of the betting on the Edensor Park
Handicap. It brought the price from sixes
to threes, Topical, who had been at 5 to
2. going out at, 7 to 2. New King, who was
ridden by McLachlan, cut out the running,
but Topical moved up fast at the home turn.
Ho continued to gain on the leader, but
New King hung on long enough to land the
money by a head for Clark, who owns and
trains him. Rosendo, last early, was a
good third.
Maltdale, a good-looking brother to Joce-
lyn. winner of the Metrop. four years ago,
was first home in the Maiden Three-year-
old Handicap from a strung-out field, and
did his job in so workmanlike a style that
he is now rated a Derby possibility. The
Derby distance should not trouble him. His
previous form had been poor, however, and
he went out at 20 to 1.
* * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Granville Stakes: Magnitas.
Dundas Handicap: Rogilla; next, Green-
sea.
August Handicap: Gleaner; next, Chide.
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap:
Roman Spear; next, Maltdale.
Parramatta Mile: Topical; next, New
King.
* * * *
Lord Darnley, less fancied than his stable-
mate, Poidale, started at 20 to 1 and filled
the coffers of McShortodds by landing the
Australian Hurdle at Caulfield. P. G. Hay,
proprietor of the Richmond Brewery, does
not bet heavily, and most of what he did
stake went on Poidale. Half a mile from
home it looked as if Poidale might do the
trick, whereas Lord Darnley wasn’t really
in the picture; but Poidale —who, being a
son of Poitrel, ought to have outstayed the
opposition—petered out. Lord Darnley came
with a rush from the turn and over-
powered the leaders after crossing the
final hurdle. Gus Powell gave H. J. Thomp-
son first choice of his Grand National can-
didates last month, and Bert elected to ride
Bhopal, the riding of Mosstrooper being
entrusted to Webster. When Bhopal broke
down Thompson was left in the cold, so
to speak. This proved a blessing _ in dis-
guise, as the jockey fluked a winning ride
in the Australian Hurdle.
Bred by H. Alan Currie, of the V.A.T.C.
committee, Lord Darnley cost Hay 250gns.
as a yearling. Two seasons ago, then six
years old, he was second to Mosstrooper in
the Australian Hurdle; hut the gelding’s in-
tervening form had been poor. Qn breeding,
of course, he ought to bo a good ’un. Rizzio,
who died not long ago, was by the English
Derby hero Cicero from Signorinetta, win-
ner of the Derby and Oaks. Alan Currie
also imported the dam, Ardville, who died
in 1924. She was by Marcovil from Arda
hy St. Frusquin. Here is purple blood with
a vengeance. Thompson’s fine judgment of
pace had a lot to do with the success of
Lord Darnley. His triumphs in the saddle
include the G. N. Steeplechase (1920) on
lolaus, the G. N. Hurdle (1923) on Ber-
rimbo, the Australian Steeplechase on Min-
terne (1926) and Mosstrooper (1929) and
the Australian Hurdle (1929) on Moss-
trooper. Berrimbo belonged to Alan Currie.
His form over obstacles in Melbourne did
not prepare local punters for Shooting Boy
being backed from 14 to 1 down to favorit-
ism at 9t02 on the course. Shooting Boy
captured the Steeplechasers’ Flat on the
middle day of the Grand National meeting,
yet Sam Griffiths, the V.A.T.C. handicapper,
let him into the Australian Hurdle at the
minimum weight. During the week Shoot-
ing Boy visited Caulfield for a special trial
over the battens and shaped ingloriously,
On Saturday several faulty jumps cost him
the race. He made a particularly bad
blunder at the last flight but one, yet ran
third, less than a length behind Sarocto.
Placegetters are engaged in the Australian
Steeplechase next Saturday, but it is ques-
tionable whether Lord Darnley will go to
the post, as he has had no experience over
fences. The other two will have to be reck-
oned with.
Flat-racing at Caulfield illustrated what
a strong hand Jack Holt possesses for the
spring. He captured the Malakoff Stakes
with High Brae, the Moondah Plate with
Casque d’Or, and the Mornington Welter
with Picatus. There was solid support for
Royal Barb in the race won by High Brae,
but this brother to The Dimmer collapsed
like a pricked bubble when Holt’s chestnut
overhauled him at the straight entrance.
Casque d’Or, the Rossendale gelding that
finished third to Sir Chrystopher and Molli-
son in the Doncaster Handicap of 1931, is
not engaged in the Cups, but will have
opportunity to distinguish himself in events
like the Toorak Handicap and the Oantaia
Stakes. Picatus scored so brilliantly, under
difficulties, that he mast take a lot of beat-
ing in the Caulfield Cup with 7st._ 71b. be-
sides being associated with the victories ot
Holt’s neddies, Duncan won on Headman,
his tally for the afternoon being thus four
firsts. .
For Caulfield on Saturday:—
Arkaringa Hurdle: Bon Haven or
Ithuriel. _ T ,
Balaclava Stakes: Eastern Glow or Lady
Pam. „
Australian Steeplechase: Shooting Boy,
1; Makeup, 2; Sarocto, 3.
* $ ijs *
“Hamilton”: The Queensland Turf Club
wound up the racing year with a profit or
£3150, after paying out teearly £25,000 to
the Federal and State Governments and the
City Council. The tote tax to the State
Government would have amounted to £13,500
in the ordinary run of things, but a new Act
enabling the State to grab tote fractions
swelled the total by £5090. By the end of
August the club will have a 10s. straight-out
tote in action in addition to the place
machines.
H: H* V
“Eagle Farm”: Racing men will be inter-
ested in a Supreme Court judgment delivered
in Brisbane recently. The Q.T.C. proceeded
against two men, the publisher and printer
of a weekly publication called “The Hand-
book of Form,” and asked the Court for a
declaration that a copyright existed cover-
ing- lists of nominations, weights, and accep-
tances in the Q.T.C. official racebook, and
that the copyright was vested in the plain-
tiffs. An injunction restraining defendants
from infringing the copyright was also
sought, as well as £5OO damages. Judge
Macrossan entered judgment for the defen-
dants, reserving the question of costs and
damages.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Karasick (13st. lib.) and Mamos (13st.
131 b.) pleased the Sydney Stadium crowd
with their spectacular work until the fourth
round, when Mamos scored a submission fall.
Karasick then weakened, and seemed hope-
lessly beaten when the sixth ended. But as
Mamos turned to his corner after the bell,
the Russian, with a flying tackle, bumped
him on the spine, and “out” he went. The
referee had also turned to the angle in which
he rested between rounds, and as he had not
seen the foul be declared for Karasick when
Mamos could not come up again. A flying
tackle also brought about the ending of the
Leichhardt match in the sixth round, but
in this case Lurich (14st. 31b.) evaded it and
King Elliott (13st. 131 b.), the tackier, dived
through the ropes. He was so groggy when
helped back to the mat that Lurich slammed
him down for the deciding fall.
Footbrawl
Wintry weather didn’t damp the spirits of
the 33,000 who went to Carlton Oval on
Saturday to wateh the Blues battle with
Richmond Tigers. Play, as a result of a
northerly gale, was scrambling and unscien-
tific, but marking on both sides was superior
and kicking surprisingly accurate. Right
throughout it was anybody’s game, and as
each led by a point or so in the last quarter
the crowd worked itself into hysterics. As
the timekeepers reached for the bell Carlton
was a point ahead; then Bentley shot the
ball right into Doug Strang’s hands, a few
yards out. He kicked truly, and Richmond
won a strenuous game by 5 points—9l to 86.
Out at Footscray, South Melbourne met its
match in pace, marking and tactics; in fact,
the Red-and-Whites never looked like win-
ning. Footscray notched 80 points; South,
6S. At St. Kilda Geelong found, like many
another team, that the locals are a tough nut
on their own ground; and though the Hub-
bites started the last spell with a handy lead
the Saints, helped by the wind, swarmed all
over them and got home by 109 points to 96.
Collingwood beat Essendon comfortably by
99 to 67; Melbourne downed Hawthorn,
76-72; and North Melbourne collected 89 to
Fitzroy’s 68.. Carlton, South and ’Wood are
now level with 44 points each, though the
percentages differ slightly. Richmond has
42, Geelong 34, and Footscray 32. As there
are but four more games before the finals
only a miracle can displace the first four.
*■* * *
The big inter-State Soccer carnival, in
which teams from every State save West-
ralia have been taking part in N.S.W. for
the past 10 days, was won decisively by
N.S.W. which defeated South Australia in
the final at Sydney Cricket Ground by six
goals to one N.S.W went through the corn-
petition unbeaten, and receive the cup pre-
sented some time ago for inter-State competi-
tion by the British Football Association,
" “ . . * .
On a wet, heavy ground in Brisbane,
Queensland again defeated N.S.W. thus
achieving an unbeaten record for the League
mter-State season The game was not not-
able for brilliant play, and the weather
atd iSTSS
for the losers Miiii.l the scrums, but they
**s
pack and were responsible for the win.
Queensland led 8-7 at half-time and points nt
the finish were 19-9 in favor of the Maroons,
With the N.S.W. team away in Brisbane,
some ot the Sydney League clubs were minus
their crack players on Saturday, but. the
lejdmg.clubs; ™ ab e to nmnitam posit.on
Without much trouble. boufli Sydney, in
M rornged over Ear
jj collected 20 imints with two tries
cofiected -0 P
harder taskwith St. George on the Spoils
nd ßalmaTi!’su!pri!cffi Maf
2540 win while at Pratten
Park Western Suburbs inflicted a 33-10
hiding on University. ,
Playing an Auckland team in Maoriland.
the English touring footballers won 19-14.
A. E. Cooke being largely responsible for
the good showing of the home side.
The semi-finals of the Rugby Union grade
competition in Sydney saw Northern Suburbs
and Drummoyne Win, and the pair will meet
in the final three weeks hence, after whieii
the winners will play Manly—minor pre-
miers—in the grand final on September 3.
The interval will be devoted to the inter-
state match with Queensland and the trials
between N.S.W., Queensland and Victorian
sides for the selection of the team which is
to tour South Africa next season. Northern
Suburbs engaged Manly at North Sydney
before a big crowd and won a hard and at
times attractive game by 9-3. or a try and
two penalty goals to a try. The second game
between Drummoyne and University at Con-
cord saw the former run home easy winners
by 24-8.
(Continued on next page.)
“The Gaffer” : The first week of the Olym-
pic Games saw many records go flying,
especially in the events on the perfect cinder
track. This section was a disappointment
to Australia, though Golding ran into
the final of the 400 metres. In their swim-
ming heats the Australian girls made a good
showing, Claire Dennis putting up a new
Olympic record for the 200 metres breast-
stroke, with 3min. 8 l-ssec. Up to Sunday
the Games had proved, an overwhelming
triumph for the Americans, who scored 299'.
points, with France, the nearest competitor,
only 89. The outstanding figure of the
Americans’ performances was the sprint
running of negro Eddie Tolan, who covered
the 100 metres in 10 3-10 sec
Canadian Williams’s world’s record —and the
200 in 21 l-ssec., the fastest ever made for
200 metres round a turn. Britain scored
two good wins in the 50.000 metres walk,
covered by T. Green in 4hr. oOmin. lOsec..
and the 800 metres, won by T. Hampson in
lmin. 49 4-ssec. —both world’s records.


sdf
"Tamousjenms
Racquets
1
mm
The
“Apex” •
25 7 -
The “Apex” Tennis Racquet
a product of the Empire Racqut
Co., and is attractively finishe
in shades of Blue or Grey. Mad
with two-piece laminated fram<
with fibre overlay over wedg
and shoulders; oval throat
strung- with high-grade gut nr
for AD/
The
“Sphinx”
27'6
A beautiful example of Slazen
ger’s craftsmanship! The
“Sphinx” Tennis Racquet, with
one-piece frame, attractively fin-
ished; oval throat; tightly
strung with superb 917 //»
quality gut for ..
“Le Modele
Parfait”
52'6
“Le Modele Parfait” (the perfev
model) tournament model, made
by Slazenger’s and exclusive to
Murdoch’s, Two-piece ash frame
with fibre inlay, overlay over
wedge and throat; strung rn /£
with high-grade gut, for *3u/ 'J
WE PAY FREIGHT
Your Racquet
Restrung
An unprecedented opportun-
ity to save. We have made
a special purchase of AUS-
TRALIAN gut in spiral
orange and white While
stocks last, we will complete-
ly restring your Racquet
under PULL GUAR- n o
ANTEE, for ' I/ W
Kindly add freight for Rac-
quets to be restrung.
Write to Desk “R.”
Murdochs Ltd.
SYDNEY
Footbrawl
"Old Q,” : This week —on Aug. 12, to be pre-
cise—falls the 50th anniversary of the clash
of N.S.W. and Queensland at Itugby Union
football. To commemorate the occasion,
Tom Welsby, one of the first Queensland
team and now one of Queensland's leading
mercantile lights, has engineered a commemo-
ration dinner in Brisbane at which the selec-
tor of that team and the stout lads who are
survivors of it will foregather. The selec-
tor is Fred Lea (“The Old Bird’’), who
held that office for the Q.R.U. for many
years. In addition to Welsby only six of
the 17 pioneer players remain. They are:
Frank Baynes, also a noted sculler and dad
of the winner of the Australian sculls in
1926 ; T. A. Bond, J. C. Boyd, J. W. Town-
son. F. L. Hardgrave and A. 11. Feez. the
last-named long a Iv.C. and leader of the
Queensland Bar. The players of that team
had just changed over from the Australian
code, then paramount in Queensland. Of
their six games in Sydney they lost 4 and
won 2. The captain, the late A. J. Ilickson,
was an old English international.
* * * *
"96-97”: Queensland’s Rugby Union side
which plays in Sydney at the week-end, and
in some of the South African trials later,
is minus some of its best men, who cannot
get leave. Among these are Steggall and
Lawton, and the flying winger, McGhie, who
many thought should have got another Aus-
tralian cap this season. Apropos of Lawton,
if is worth noting that the astute (John
Wallace on his return to Maoriland told
interviewers that the best thing Australia
had done for his team was the omission of
tin' great five-eighth from the third Test.
Anyone who saw Tom when lie came down to
Sydney to see the last Test could understand
why he didn’t make a splash in the second
at Brisbane. In addition to a pair of black
eyes that would have been an honor to an
Irish wake, Tom had a broken nose and a
severe hip injury from which he was still
limping.
if it * *
“Stand Off”: Among the players from
other States who will be watched with inter-
est at the Union trials for the South African
tour will be Max Carpenter who is being
brought across from Westralia. The game
is now well established there, and when
the heads on this side asked for five
nominations from which one was to be
chosen, the Westralians placed Carpenter
third. However, his predecessors were for-
wards. and it is rightly judged that in
Queensland, N.S.W. and Victoria there is
forward material in plenty; so Carpenter,
as a five-eighth and wing-three-quarter, was
decided on. This side of Australia badly
needs a five-eighth and a good winger, and
Carpenter may click. He is a Sydney lad
who learned Rugby at Rand wick High
School. His first appearance in big foot-
ball was with Westralia against the British
team of 1930.
it * * *
“Squark”: That par. about the quarrel
between the N.S.iy. Rugby League and the
country “Group Nine” (B. 3/8/’32) needs
revising. When the Jolly Roger was hoisted
in the country a Sydney delegation hopped
over, and after two days’ discussion a" peace
was, patched up. The rebels withdrew their
threat to break away and the City crowd
is to sanction a revision of the present
League constitution at a conference to be
held in October. The Sydney heads have
also agreed to consider the burning question
of the repayment to “Group Nine” of £75
which that body claimed after the Queens-
land match last season. Apparently, the
jingling of the guinea has gone some way to
heal the hurt that honor felt.
•!* % v
“Methuselah”: It was with tears in my
eyes that I viewed a photograph in a
Melbourne paper showing four elderly gentle-
men indulging in “training” for a “Vete-
rans’ ” match which is to make a Melbourne
holiday at the Cricket Ground for some
charitable purpose at the end of this month.
As one who knows the M.C.C. ground well,
I am aware that the most convenient pub
is across the railway line, some distance
away. My heart went out to all the old
gentlemen pretending to be what they never
could be again, but it bled for one in par-
ticular, of Falstaffian port and complexion,
whose expression said, louder than any
talkie, “Shall I live to see another beer?”
No. Football is not for the aged who
played it long ago. Their proper metier
is to sit in the grandstands and lie to each
other about the feats of their youth.
“Rover”: The N.S.W. Australian Rules
authorities have been much worried this
season over the dwindling attendances at
their matches. The national game has nevei’,
in Sydney, commanded the crowds which
watch the League and Union games, but
nevertheless there has been a solid following
season after season. This is fading; receipts
for the season to date are 20 per cent,
below those of last. One factor which un-
doubtedly has something to do with the dis-
favor indicated is the recent tendency to
rough and foul play and the hooliganism
shown by barrackers, who have invaded the
playing arena and joined forces with the dis-
putants. One finds instances of rough and
foul play in both the League and Union codes
occasionally, but these are, as a rule, severely
dealt with by the authorities. Further, the
barrackers of the respective codes are even
more under control than the players. Aus-
tralian Rules should empower referees to
send offending players off the field direct. At
present this cannot be done, and the offender
is left in the game to continue his work and
to provoke personal reprisals from his
opponents.
Racquet and Bawl
"Rev. Knucklebone”: The Australian
Davis Cup team is still haunting Europe
and being treated to one indignity after
another. After an ineffectual showing on
the Continent it revisited England, to be
soundly walloped at Scarborough. Then it
went to Bouniemouth, where what the
Japanese did to it doesn’t bear writing
about, orawford has been right off liis game
for some time and is said to be suffering
from several aillnents. Hopman’s perform-
ances have been little better, while as for
Clemenger and Sproule the less said the
better. The side is to go to Germany to
meet that country, so we can expect anotner
towelling, since Fritz was good enough to
win to the final of the European zone.
“Let”: The American tennis players are
expected to land in Sydney on November 5,
and they will abide in the Bridge City for
about a fortnight. They are down to
appear in the State November champion-
ships, which have been recliristened “tin'
N.S.W. Special 1932 championships.”
Entries will be unlimited, with preliminary
rounds, and the prize list is liberal. Stand
accomodation will be greatly increased
and much extra silver is hoped for as a
result.
“Top Spin”: When Australian tennis
addicts were told recently that, in addition
to an American team, we should see French-
man Cocliet and a partner in Australia at
the same time, there were many who thought
the news too good to be true. Some of it
was, for Cocliet can’t get away this year.
This announcement will disappoint the many
who hoped to see the Frenchmen in action
against the Americans.
* * * -j.
“Cash Amateur”: Tennis lost a possible
world’s amateur champion when Karel
Kozeluli, of Czecho-Slovakia, turned profes-
sional. At Chicago the other day, lie won
the American professional championship
from Ilans Nussleim, of Germany, who is
European champion. A couple of days pre-
viously. Kozeluli had downed the mighty
Tilden.
Car and Cycle
“Overland” : An unusual race in which a
low-powered motor-car is one of the com-
petitors is now in progress from London to
Calcutta. Captain Yates-Benyon, who is
driving the car, has for adversary the British
India liner Manora. At last advices Benyon
was just leaving Aleppo to tackle the 550
miles across the Syrian desert to Bagdad,
while the Manora was leaving Aden the
same day. Provided nothing happens to
hold either contestant up, the finish should
be close, for, though the ship has 24 hours’
lead on the schedule, the long run across
the hard desert should considerably improve
the car’s position.
* * =l= *
“Disc Clutch” : Henry Ford has at last de-
parted from the four-cylinder! policy, and the
motoring world is now waiting eagerly for the
appearance of the new Ford Eight. A
complete saloon model weighs only 23cwt. and
is equipped with a 30-h.p. 8-cylinder engine
developing 65 m.p.h. at 3400 revs, per
minute, or one horse power to every 401 b. of
weight, acceleration being equal to that of the
most expensive sports types. Flexibility is also
exceptional, the car throttling down to 4
m.p.h. in top gear. A speed trial over half
a mile at Brooklands showed 76 m.p.h. and
57 m.p.h. in second gear.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
Duncan Gray, the Goulburn (N.S.W.)
cyclist, scored Australia’s first major point
at the Los Angeles Olympiad last week by
winning the 1000 metres’ time trial. With
some of the finest amateur riders in the
world behind him, Gray was over the finish-
ing line in lmin. 13sec., a new Olympic re-
cord. Though our cyclists have been trying
for aii Olympic crown for many years, this
is the first success.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Midnight on Sunday saw the
beginning at Brisbane Velodrome of a six-
day cycle race. Fifteen teams of two men
each are competing and they comprise the
cream of Australian professional cycling
talent, including all the riders who repre-
sented this country in the last Tour dc
France. Two star teams are Hubert Opper-
man and J. Fitzgerald, and R. W. Lamb and
Jack Standen, -the first three Victorians,
and the last a N.S.W. rider and an ex-Olym-
pic rep. Riders and officials are camping at
the Velodrome, which, with its tents, cook-
houses, etc., is more like a military camp
than a sports arena. Every Australian
State is represented, and Maoriland has sent
the two brothers Wier.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Opperman was asked if he
intended to have another shy at the Tour
dc France. The Australian rider doubts
if it will be possible to get together an Aus-
tralian team capable of making anything
like a decent showing in next year’s event
and does not intend to attempt the organi-
sation of one. He will probably go abroad
himself, however, to ride in the many Con-
tinental races in which single riders are
eligible to compete.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger” : On paper, at least, the
Australian amateur championship at Adel-
aide, Avhich begins this week, looks a good
thing for Victoria. Ivo Wliitton. Williams
and Sloan Morpeth are only three of a
strong entry, the only notable absentee
being Ryan. Apart from Apperly and
Bettington, the N.S.W. list does not
look impressive. The cream of the Vic-
torian professionals will go over to the
meeting, but N.S.W. will also send a strong
side, including J. Spence, winner of the last
professional championship of Australia, and
Frank Eyre, who took the Open in 1930.
South Australia will be at full strength on
its home ground, including Legli Winser and
W. S, Rymill among the amateurs, and
Rufus Stewart and F. McMahon leading the
professional contingent. E. Alberts, profes-
sional at the Cottesloe club, is the sole West-
ralian entry.
“Brassey” : A pity young Jim Ferrier, of
N.S.W., will not be able to figure in the
Australian golf championships at Adelaide,
for he is playing in exceptional form. Last
week at Killara, where the bogey and stand-
ard score is 75. he was round in 72. Next
day at the Australian course at Kensington
his card showed another 72 —-bogey and
standard, 7S. After that he went back to
his home club at Manly and won a stroke
handicap with another '72. His Victorian
rival, Williams*, has been playing equally
keen and consistent golf. At his home course,
Victoria, the Australian champion in the
monthly, medal against bogey, conceding the
latter two strokes, went round the strongly-
bunkered course in 68. including a 6 at the
long 1 (th —075 yards. He was out and
home with the same each way.
“Susie Swattit” : When the shouting ami
the tumult over the meeting of the mere
men in their Australian golf championships
in Adelaide is over, the associate members
of Australia will take up the tale with their
.struggle, hitting off on August 22 at Koo-
yonga. The entries promise some rare golf,
including as they do the champions of the
three leading States in Joan Hammond
(N.S.W.). Mona McLeod (Vic.) and Kate
Rymill (S.A.). In addition there will be
the Australian champion, Susie Tolhurst,
Odette Lefebvre (1931 N.S.W. titleholder)
and the Barclay sisters from Tassy. The
entry of Joan Ilammond is unexpected. She
is a member of the Williamson opera co.,
and though she got leave for the N.S.W.
tourney, it was not expected she could spare
the time for the Australian events.
H. G. (Horace) Hutchinson, whose
death in England from a fall from a house-
top is reported, was one of the grand old
men of the game, and one who was a noted
writer. An Oxford man, he figured for the
Dark Blues against Cambridge in the first
golf match played between the ’Varsities —
on Wimbledon Common in 1878. He won
the amateur championship of Britain in its
first two years, 1886-S7, and was runner-up
or in the finals on several occasions after,
lie played for England against Scotland on
five occasions, and in 1908 was captain of
the Royal and Antient. He returned a final
card of 73.
“Sandringham”: The Bendigo open meet-
ing, which is now one of Victoria’s most im-
portant golfing fixtures outside Melbourne,
drew a strong field which included Ivo Whit-
ton and M. J. Ryan. The fight for the win-
ning Northern District championship re-
solved itself into a duel between this pair,
Whit-ton winning with a card of 155 for the
36 holes, while Ryan was only two worse.
Miscellaneous
“Aigburth” : At time of writing, England
had picked 13 of the 16 cricketers for the
Australian tour. The list, is Jardine, Sut-
cliffe, Hammond, Duleepsinhji, Ames, Duck-
worth, Robins, Brown, Wyatt, Pataudi,
Allen, Larwood and Voce. The strangers
to Australian wickets are Robins, Brown,
Wyatt. I’ataudi, Allen and Voce. All save
the last are amateurs, so with Jardine
and the “Tulip” there will be seven lilywliites
in the side, with possibly more to come
when the final three are selected. One would
have to go back for many years to find
such a number of amateurs included, Stod-
dart’s team of 1897-98, with five, being
the nearest approach to it. The regular
bowlers arc Robins, Brown, Allen, Lar-
wood and Voce, with Wyatt and Hammond
as offsiders. All, save Duckworth, are bats-
men of class.
$ s|: :J:
“Philadelphia”: Some of the Australian
papers are treating the tour of Mailey’s team
in America as a pioneer effort intended to
introduce the game to the land of baseball.
It is the other way about, for American
cricket, in the Eastern States at least, is
pretty well as old as Australia. In Phila-
delphia especially the game has flourished for
many years, and one or two of the grounds
and clubhouses are famous the world over.
Records have not been kept accurately, but.
there is one of a match with the Gentlemen
of Ireland played at New York in 1879.
More than one Australian Eleven has played
its way through the U.S.A. going or coming
from England, while many English sides
under Lord Hawke and others have visited
the country at intervals. A glance at the
papers published in any of the big American
cities will usually find reference to cricket
in the season, though the public appeal is
nothing like that of baseball.
* # * *
“Five Ways” : Queensland cricket will this
year miss Cecil Thompson, wdio had an-
nounced h}s intention of returning to Shef-
field games after an interregnum caused by
one of the quarrels between players and the
Queensland governing body which arc such
a feature of Bananaland cricket. Thompson,
who is taking a trip to England to recu-
perate after a severe illness, lias been one
of tin- most prolific scorers for the Northern
State, his 260 n.o. against N.S.W. in 1930
being the record for a Queensland batsman.
% =:= t-
“Acme”: The annual ice-hockey fight,
between N.S.W. and Victoria was concluded
last week at Melbourne Glaciarium and
ended with the sides level. The tourney was
for the Goodall Cup, and after N.S.W. had
won the first game and the second was
drawn, the home side won the third by 2
goals to 1. As a result, the Ma State hangs
on to the cup, which it has not let out of
its keeping since 1923. The Welshmen had
the best of the Australian speed champion-
ships also. W. Johnston won the half-mile
in lmin. 41sec., and K. Kennedy the quarter
in 50 3-ssec. The visitors also took the
relay for the Brown trophy. Victoria scored
in the women’s championship, Miles. Nicholls
and Maxwell, of the Cabbage Garden, filling
the first two places.
“Fitzcray” Whether the N.S.W. athletic
authorities like it or not (B. 27/7/’32), the
Victorian contingent is going ahead with
the arrangements for importing an amateur
athletic team from America this season. The
Victorians have been notified by E. S. Marks,
secretary of the Australian Athletic Union,
who is in America, that he has obtained the
consent of the American authorities for the
visit of a team. No doubt every effort will
be made to bring Eddie Tolaii, winner of
the 100 and 200 metres at the Los Angeles
Olympiad.
“Green Chequer”: Victoria opened her
pigeon-racing seasoii last week with a flight
of over 3000 birds from Ballan to Melbourne,
some 45 miles, and 29 clubs were represented.
The race is the first of a series over increas-
ing distances,: winding up with a final flight
from Tareoota to Melbourne over an air line
of 740 miles. One drawback to long-dis-
tance racing, in Australia at least, is the
extensive losses from hawks, which seem
to know when a race is coming off and
post themselves along the route. Pigeon-
racing is a fairly costly business and why
so many otherwise level-headed folk are
content annually to spend good money in
supplying free meals to hawks is one if
those things which no feller can understand.


Try This For
Rheumatic
Pains
Nothing like Harrison’s Pills for rheumatism, back-
ache, groin pains, painful urination, depleted vitality
due to uric acid disorders, genito-urinary and bladder
troubles. No matter how many things have failed
you, Harrison’s Pills will do you good, for they
remove the cause of the trouble. A Hospital Nurse
says: “You might be interested to know that the
success of Harrison’s Pills in treating Kidney and
Bladder Troubles, Backache, etc., has been such that
1 have recommended this remedy to scores of patients
and I can testify definitely to their unusual efficacy
and great value for use in these painful troubles.”
If you want to get rid of your ageing aches and
pains quickly—get a package of Harrison’s Pills
from the nearest chemist to-day. 2/- Trial Size;
3/- Standard Size, and 5/- Large Size. If not
delighted with results —money back!
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
IF YOU MUST BE PAID
TO READ THE NEWS..
....what of the advertisements?
“The Brisbane Courier” depends for circulation solely on its
wholesome, cleanly-presented news and its vigorous policy in
public questions. Subscribers buy it to read it. As a result its
circulation is the greatest and most effective in all Queensland.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland’s leading paper for 84 years.
Representative: ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 85007.
Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH:
WALES.
Matrimonial: Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 482 of 1932.
Between ADA MAY URQUHART Petitioner
And HENRY DAVID URQUHART Respondent.
To HENRY DAVID URQUHART late of Gundagai 1
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that tho said Ada May Urquharf
has filed her Petition in the Supreme Court of New
South Wales praying for a Divorce from you on
the ground that you have without just cause of
excuse wilfully deserted her the said Petitioner and'
without any such cause or excuse left her continu-
ously so deserted during three years and upwards.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter -
an appearance to the said Suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the twenty-
sixth day of October One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-two and in the event of you not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the Suit will be-
heard and determined your absence notwithstanding/
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned solicitor free of
charge.
Dated this 26th day of July, 1932.
For the Registrar, - ■
[l.s.] E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce. ...
C. B. WEAVER, Solicitor for Petitioner,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite was coming
up from Kiama on Sunday, and just reached
the top of Bald Hill in time to look down
at the first hikers’ wedding. Under u sky
almost achingly blue, the Pacific sparkled
turquoise and lapis lazuli, and washed the
gold half-moon of Stairwell Park beach.
Amid all this beauty Ivy Springett and
Herbert Henry Ilillier were being made man
and wife, while the jumpers of thousands
of hikers standing at attention formed a
brilliant mosaic. It was a colorful and
striking scone, and could not have been
excelled by any rally of Romany lads and
lasses.
This hiking business has been entered
with a sort of passionate eagerness
by Sydney. Not only the young but the
middle-aged and the elderly go striding
Sunday after Sunday down bush track and
country road. It’s a healthy amusement,
and an inexpensive one, and poets and artists
will surely arise among the multitudes who
see, so much more intimately than the train
or car traveller, the wind among the grasses,
the sun upon the leaves.
The rather pathetic efforts of the City
Fathers to make the chairs in the Town Hail
more attractive by dolling them up with
plump pink cushions will make no appeal
to the small woman. Already the chairs in
the civic barn arc something of a problem.
You can either slump in your chair or sit
uncomfortably forward in it, and so plant,
your heel as well as toes on the floor, or you
can sit upright and support your spine with
the back of the chair, in which case you tip
the floor with your toes. One woman solved
her puzzle at the Szigeti concert last Thurs-
day by sneaking the cushion off her chair and
popping it under her feet. Perhaps an inch
sawn off the legs of the chairs, plus the move-
able upholstery, might make all the differ-
ence.
The violinist in spite of last week’s bitter
weather drew devotees from the outermost
suburbs. The Scammells from Clifton Gar-
dens have been regular attendants. As Dag-
mar Thomson, she studied with Ysaye, and
it was in that great master’s villa she met
Szigeti. _ He was visiting his old teacher
and during that visit Ysaye completed three
of the compositions now in the Hungarian
artist’s repertoire. Mrs. John Moore, who
was Gladys Owen, Miss Crowdy, also Benno
Moiseiwitsch’s wife and Nan Garvan, luxuri-
ously wrapped in mink, were among those
thrilled by the Kreutzcr sonata, as were rows
and rows of men and women in mackintoshes
and rubber boots, and a group of men, obvi-
ous toilers in the sweat of their brow, who
turned out to be a little company of Hun-
garians.
The mystery baker .of the birthday cake
which arrived tied up with the red, green and
white of Hungary was, it seems, a fellow-
countryman, now in Sydney. Thirty years
ago he was a chef at one of the Budapest
hotels, and so, as one artist to another, he
sent one of his creations. Szigeti beamed
over his present. “To send a gift that you
have made with your own hands, there is
something Biblical about that.” And then
he told this Letter of another gift made by
the hand and the brain of an old friend—
the work composed by Ysaye in liis honor.
“We had dined, not in the grand dining-
room of formal occasions, but in his own
family dining-room that was separated from
fbe kitchen only by a trapdoor in the wall.
There sat Ysaye at the top of his table, with
his violin in its case beside him, a big man,
full of virility, with his appetite for good
food and wine and life; and presently, when
the last dish of all had slid through the open-
ing in the wall, Ysaye got up suddenly from
the glass of port wine mixed with soda water,
as he liked to drink it and had served it to me,
and produced this manuscript. He propped T.
against the decanter of port wine, handed
me a violin and said ‘Play.’ So, sitting
down, I played, with Ysaye every now and
then shouting out an instruction as to how
he wished this or that to go.” Szigeti is a
famed name in Hungarian records, for the
Siege of Szigetvar is one of the classical
sieges of history.
It was Consett Stephen who put the zip
into the meeting for the Flower Festival in
October. This is to aid the Industrial Blind
Institute, and the rooms at Government
House were crowded for last week’s discus-
sion. Consett stood up and said that though
sympathetic to the cause he declined to be
one of the rose queens. He added that while
he appreciated flowers ladies made a greater
appeal to him, and that morning the roses
he saw blooming in so many cheeks were
garden enough for him. Then he told a story
of how, being sent to walk in a garden with
a great man from overseas, he answered
when the stranger remarked on the beauty
of a flowering plant, “Oh, yes, that’s a fine
waratah —the waratahs are really very fine
here.” The hostess who by this time had
arrived on the scene jerked him by the arm.
“Those aren’t waratahs,” she whispered,
“they’re wattles!”
Prudence Vanbrugh that was, now Mrs.
J. B. Dickson, arrived in Sydney with her
Australian bridegroom last week by the
Orama. The daughter of Violet Vanbrugh
(her father was Arthur Bourchier) and
niece of Irene who was so popular with
Australia, the newcomer is already quite at
home. She made on her own account many
friends when she was here five or six years
ago, playing with the Boucicault company.
Amateur dramatics should receive quite an
impetus from the new settler, who, however,
says that there will be no more professional
stage for her.
Mayoress Walder gave a party last Friday.
Not one of those big crushes, where the early
bird gets the chair, and the others become
like storks or herons, standing on one
leg, then on the other. This was an intimate,
convivial affair, with one-half the reception-
room closed off, while 20 or 30 toasted toes
around the radiator and made merry amid
the furnishings selected by Sydney Burdekin
when the ’nineties were certainly not gay in
the matter of interior decoration. The after-
noon turned into a sort of rally round Miss
Watson, a visitor from Melbourne; the Fair-
fax lady was one of the afternoon’s figures,
Admiral Bernard and his wife were among
those who lent an attentive ear to W. G.
Layton’s description of the flower festival,
and the sailor at once suggested that ho
and the impeccably tailored Oswald Check
run a fruit barrow.
Thousands of North-Shore-liners hastened
to the scene when the comfortable old Killara
Golf Clubhouse was being utterly destroyed
by fire during the dead of night. The club’s
cups and trophies as well as its records went
up in smoke. Fortunately, not one of the
staff or the firemen was injured; and the
club’s weakest player can now boast of his
prowess in the past 15 years with no book
evidence to gainsay him.
Trixie Tange is famed in Sydney for two
things—her mop of red-gold hair and her
piano - playing.
London and
Vienna on top
of the work of
the State Con-
s e r vatorium
have rounded
off a great
natural talent,
and now Trixie
is one of our
young artists
whom world
pianists can
praise with-
out a mental
“Heaven, for-
givc me!”
Backhaus and
M o i seiwitsch
have both
spoken with
enthusiasm of
the Sydney
girl’s powers,
and Marks Levine, of the Daniel Mayer con-
cert management, offered to undertake her
debut as a concert artist in New York. The
Savoy Theatre on August 25 will house
Trixie’s one-woman recital, and her pro-
gramme includes, among Brahms, Bach and
Schumann, first performances in Sydney of
a Nocturne by York Bowen, and a Minuet
by Josef Suk.
The Irvingesque Wylie Blue, one of the
most decorative and compelling-voiced padres
Sydney pulpits have known, is about to
return to Belfast after a six-month stay in
Sydney. How he will like the dourness of
that Scotch-Irish city after our sunshine,
probably only his own soul will ever know.
Rev. Wylie Blue has been the star preacher
of Scots Kirk during his stay, and he and
his wife have made a wide circle of friends
outside as well as inside church circles. Last
week the wives of the Presbyterian ministers
gave them a farewell supper in the Assembly
Building on Church Hill. Husbands weren’t
debarred, and the hostesses, better-halves of
the Sydney and North Sydney presbyteries,
brought their daughters to the social as the
Hebes of the cup that cheers.
Two youngsters getting a foothold in the
show game arc Betty Suttor, who is under-
studying Agnes Doyle in “Whistling in the
Dark,” and Margaret Honey, who is making
a start next week in the cafe scene of
“Bitter Sweet.”
A haka that nearly raised the roof of the
Blaxland Galleries was the most striking
feature of the University Law Society's
dance, though the link between a war chant
and law and order wasn’t discernible to all.
Maybe it was to impress on the young law
merchant how much more lucrative the civi-
lised way of settling differences is—to the
lawyer. The girls who gave the haka
wore black shorts and blouses and were re-
peating the success they had at the Rugby
Union Ball, w'hen the All Blacks were
amongst their applauders. All the Justices,
from the C.J. down, had a night out, and
the Harveys, the liaise Rogerses, the David-
sons and bachelor Teddy McTiernan were at
the table presided over by the Law Society s
President, T. R. Bavin, and his wife. Pro-
fessor John Peden and daughter Barbara
were in the group, as were Maxwell, K.C.,
and Mrs. Maxwell. Joan Marks in white
satin, the Archie Bevans’s Mary in lilac
chiffons, Valerie Bavin and Mary Barton in
black velvet were noted among the 400
dancers.
This is Jane Conolly, one of the latest
recruits to the Independents’ banner. She
plays Iris
Tenterden in
“T h e Great
Broxopp,” the
laugh-raiser by
A. A. Milne,
now being pre-
sented at the
Savoy by
Doris Fitton.
Jane, who is
a Doone ex-
pupil, made
her first ap-
pearance with
that school’s
i ram a tic group
in Yeats’s
“Land o f
Heart’s De-
sire,” when
her gold head
and soft voice
struck the
right note in
the Irish setting. She has played many
parts since, and has twice appeared in plays
by Australian writer Ruth Bedford. Photo,
from Monte Luke.
Sydney is forming cultural circles with the
zest of a of a pre-depresh city in the U.S.A.’s
middle-west. It already has a P.E.N. Club,
a Film Society and several Play Societies;
now a “John o’ London’s” Literary Circle
has arrived. The idea is to encourage Aus-
tralian art, literature, music and drama —-
chiefly, so far as this Letter can gather, by
talking about them.
Oswald Cheeke started the fashion of Sun-
day after-church cocktail parties. At any
*rate, his guests were bidden for twelve, and
started to roll in about 12.30 until some 10
were deep about the table. Here eatables,
from sausage to caviare, were spread and
by your choice you proved whether
you were Darling Point or merely, say,
Neutral Bay. Margery H’icklin, who was to
have been the bright and particular star of
the rally, didn’t turn up. She was away
steaming a cold out of herself with euca-
lyptus ; however, Mona Barlee, the dashing
Gussi of the cafe scene, came along, very
slim in a dress that wore red spots, Sadie
Bedford (from “Whistling in the Dark”)
added a yellow dress, about two shades deeper
than the orange cocktails. Royce Shannon
and Mrs. Rayner were among the frivollcrs
and Joyce Beazley talked French like a
native to a visitor from Paris, who came
under Violet Roche’s wing, while Harry
Tighe and a group of young actors and
actresses talked stagecraft. About two
o’clock the strenuous-minded rushed off to
golf and tennis, but towards three the affair
was still sparkling. Oswald is one of the
few bachelors in the city who give parties,
and after last Sunday you feel that all
bachelors who don’t should be taxed in the
interests of a brighter and better Sydney.
Old Mr. Stewart Dawson, who died last
week, occupied one of the two most desir-
able flats in Sydney. He and his handsome
wife lived in the top floor of the building
in the grounds of what used to be “Clarens,”
Potts Point—the home of James Martin,
C.J., father of Mrs. Harry Manning,
wife of Mr. Stevens’s new Attorney-General.
The Sep Levys have the downstairs flat,
with its marvellous outlook over a terrace
garden on to the loveliest part of the harbor.
An engaging feature of the old gentle-
man’s character was the philosophic view
he took of the financial embarrassments of
his soklier son. He had never owed a penny
in his life himself for a day after he was
asked to pay up; but he argued that he had
brought his children up differently. When
an acquaintance suggested that he might let
his son go bankrupt, and save himself money
as well as further worries, he was scandal-
ised. That didn’t represent either decent
family feeling or common honesty to his
Scuitch mind. “I’d pay if he owed ten
times as much,” he said. “I’d have to. But
I wouldn’t like doing it,” he added wistfully.
This Letter can’t climb into its pink
envelope without a word about the barn
dance staged to the music of mouth-organ
and accordeon at the On Our Selec-
tion ball in aid of the N.S.W. Community
Hospital. The dance was inspired by the
new film of Steele Rudd’s Australian classic.
±he stars of the picture were among the
dancers, as were Bert Bailey, complete with
whiskers, and Steele Rudd himself. Dad
and Mum and Dave, as well as 800 other
dancers, took the floor at David Jones’s, and
many a pretty face looked all the prettier
framed in the old-fashioned sunbonnets
which were sold with lucky numbers
attached, but not too much need be said
about the effect of whiskers on the male
visage.
When the little plump pigs come to Gov-
ernment; House on the day of the Bush Nurs-
ing Fair, w’ill they arrive smiling and in their
skins, or dead, and —paradoxically—dressed V
At the meeting the other day, this Letter
looked out on the lawns and saw them, men-
tally, after the gay little trotters which Mrs.
Jimmy Ashton was promising, and the spurs
of the Black Orpingtons from Mrs. Whitney,
of Woodstock, had done the Sherlock Holmes
act over the green turf.
The Fairfax fowlrun at Bowral is sending
down a company of aristocrats, aud Mrs.
Macarthur-Onslow’s special offering to the
C.W.A. stall will be turkeys from the Cam-
den cow-pastures. However, one supposes,
that the creatures’ last grunt and cackle
will have passed into the ether before they
are spread out on the doorstep of vice-
royalty. But what of the Girl Scouts —
surely the little Brownies and the Girl Cubs
come into the spirited picture? For two
days the fair will live, and a Venetian carni-
val on Farm Cove will be a night attrac-
tion. The Navy and the yacht clubs have
promised to hang out all lanthorns for the
occasion, and speed boats and searchlights
will put. the moon and the stars to shame.
The engineering students from the Univer-
sity are looking after the land illuminations.
Kelso King’s lady is one of the active work-
ers, and Mrs. A. C. Godhard is the organ-
iser.
Presumably the cash they collect is the
lure that is drawing the girls from Sydney’s
de luxe homes into the mannequin game.
Somebody suggests it is vanity and the lovt*
of changing from one model into another for
six days a week. But whatever the reason
the society deb. seems keen on the job, and
the trained mannequin and the out-of-work
show girl see another door to employment
being shut in their faces.
Brisbane brightnesses
There have been two largely-attended garden parties
at Government House, with the band of the 9-15th
battalion playing and Boy Scouts and Girl Guides
active about the grounds. On the first day Lady
Wilson wore mottled leaf brown and white ; Marjorie
Wilson was in black and white; the Glasgow and
Hardy ladies were in navy and fawn respectively;
Mrs. de Burgh Persse chose black and white; Mrs.
Cadell Garrick was in hyacinth blue and Mrs. M.
G. Hayman wore black, and mastic. On the second
day Lady Wilson wore black with fine Alencon lace
and black hat; her daughter was. in Guardsman blue ;
Mrs. Forgan Smith wore wedgwood blue; the Mayor-
ess was in magenta, the Philp lady chose black
and white and Margaret Rawlings was all in cream.
The Government gave a reception to the v.-r’s,
at Parliament House, where their Exes, stood at the
head of the central staircase with the Premier and
Mrs. Forgan Smith to receive the many guests.
Archbishop Duhig wore his purple robes and
there were some glittering official uniforms. Lady
Wilson chose a mushroom satin Paris model, worn
with diamonds and a white fox coat; Marjorie
Wilson was in lemon chiffon with a white fur coat;
the Macartney lady was in black with a blue
brocade coat; the Mayoress chose white; Mrs. Forgai)
Smith was in Oriental tints; Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart'
favored pink moire, and Mrs. Firmin McKinnon
pastel blue and grey. There was a musical pro-
gramme with Hilder Woolmer, Pat McOnigley and
Harry Borradale among the contributors.
Mrs. Gilbert Wilson will keep her 70th birthday
next month when a complimentary concert is to be
tendered to her, She is a granddaughter of Madame
Carandini and her family can boast five generations
of silver voices. Her mother, who was Rosa Car-
andini, before she became Mrs. Palmer, died recently
in Melbourne. Mrs. Gilbert Wilson’s first appearance
was in Sydney Town Hall.
The Governor inspected some 500 men of the
Ex-Servicemen’s Legion at the drum-head parade
service. His Ex. took the salute in his Royal
Marine uniform and laid a 'wreath at the foot of
the Eternal Flame in Anzac-square. Alderman
Decker presided, Dean Barrett read the service and
the Brisbane-Scottish band played the Lament.
Kingsford Smith, who is the least swanky of
men, made a .chatty speech at the City Hall, which
his audience thoroughly appreciated. The Lud Mayor
introduced the aviator, and there was a musical
programme and some elocution before the films of
the Pacific flight were shown.
A party in honor of the Governor and Lady.’;
Wilson was arranged by the Catholic women of
Brisbane at Archbishop Duliig’s home, Wynberg,;..
New Farm, on the Governor’s birthday. The Society
of St. Vincent de Paul benefited. The Archbishop.
Mesdames F. C. Freudeubeig and Weller received
the vice-regal guests.
The Toe H ball was held at Lennons. Sir Leslie
and Lady Wilson and daughter Marjorie were there;
the only deb. was Jennie Carpenter and the Governor,
asked her for the first dance. Lady Wilson -wore,
amethyst lace; Marjorie Wilson was in ivory satin;'
Jennie Carpenter was in white satin; Mrs. A. E.
Moore wore butterfly-wing blue.


Here’s the Way to
Revitalise Your
Body
No matter liow regular your daily
habits, through faulty action of the
bowels particles of food waste become
encrusted in the walls of the intestine.
This waste matter accumulates and
breeds germ-producing poisons, wlrch
enter the bloodstream, thus undermin-
ing your vitality—menacing your health
—taking power from those life-giving
organs of Nature. Most internal sick-
ness is now traced to dreaded self-
poisoning ( autoxima ), the result of hid-
den constipation, from which nine out
of ten unconsciously suffer. It is this
imperfect elimination of waste matter
which is the direct cause of so much pre-
sent-day sickness—which makes so many
people “old” years before their time.
Be internally clean. Regain the old
energy of youth. Build up strong,
robust health and fitness from the in-
side. Dislodge this crust from the in-
testine and cleanse the blood stream.
Free the system from this sickening,
poisonous waste. Drink COLOSEPTIC
—the prompt way to health, vigor—to
a new life—new vitality—new energy.
Gently and smoothly COLOSEPTIC
forces out all the poisons and impur-
ities through the bowels, kidneys, pores
of the skin, and respiratory organs—-
Nature’s four great channels for the
disposal of waste matter from the body.
Do you suffer from constipation,
headaches, weakness, indigestion, gas
in the stomach and bowels, catarrh,
backache, rheumatism, neuritis, eczema,
pimples, etc.? Then take the first step
towards health restoration by means of
the method directed to outroot self-
poisoning. Drink COLOSEPTIC every
morning and personally prove how
quickly it surmounts your particular
health difficulty—renews your youthful
energies gives you power to resist
sickness and disease. You can get
COLOSEPTIC in regular full-size jars
from all chemists. Send 1/- stamps
or postal note to COLOSEPTIC CO
LTD., Dept. II 4, 24 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, for a Special Demonstration
Jar of COLOSEPTIC. and the inter-
esting booklet “Autoxima.”
Missing Friends.
rVONNELLY.—WouId NELLIE DON-
NELLY and MR. and MRS. GEORGE
GIBSON, relatives of late FRANCIS
DONNELLY, or anyone having information
regarding their whereabouts, please com-
municate witli PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED), 33-39 Hunter
Street, Sydney ?
NOTICE TO NEXT-OF-KIN.
RE WILLIAM DATES ELDRIDGE, late
of Brisbane, in the State of Queensland,
Canvasser, deceased.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all
persons claiming to be entitled to the estate
of the abovenamed, WILLIAM LATES
ELDRIDGE, deceased, or any part thereof
nnd particularly Thomas Eldridge, a lawful
brother of the said deceased, are hereby
required to forward proof of their claims to
the Public Curator. Brisbane, Queensland,
on or before the Tenth day of February,
3933, AND THAT after the expiration of
the aforesaid date the Public Curator will
proceed to distribute the assets of the said
deceased disregarding the claims of which
he shall not have had notice and of all
persons claiming by, through or under them
or any of them by derivative, title or other-
wise howsoever.
DATED at Brisbane this third day of
August, 1932.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to
The Public Curator, Brisbane.
JOHN MINIHANE OR MONAHAN OR
MOYNIHAN.
AV/ILL any person who can afford informa-
W tion as to the present whereabouts of this
gentleman (who was born in Ireland about
1855 and left Ireland for Australia about 50
years ago, and was in Queensland in the
Police Force, which he left in 1880) or ot
the date and place of his death, _ or of the
present whereabouts of any of his
ants, kindly communicate with FILLMER
AND PORT, Solicitors, 7 Marlborough
Place, Brighton, England.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabothan
Tea Rooms
P[?] 800[?]
Buckley e-Nu[?] L[?]
[?]
Saturday, after a glimpse of sunshine in
the morning, turned cold and cloudy at mid-
day, and the first race at the V.A.T.C. meet-
ing was run in a deluge. Afterwards there
were spasms of brightness, but the wind
was bitter. The attendance was large. Many
women took a chance and sported the straw
sailor hats—boaters some people call them —
which are now being resurrected. A month
or two ago such hats, worn in a stage pro-
duction, raised a gale of laughter, but they
were paraded in numbers at Caulfield and
nobody seemed to notice anything funny
about them. These nut-covers appeared in.
every hue —natural honey-toned straw, white,
black, vivid reds and greens and all the
browns. Models that got away from the
mere boater and assumed a modified mush-
room shape were mostly flower-trimmed and
looked very becoming. The only other fes-
tive note was struck in the reappearance of
coat posies, some of huge size. Orchids,
violets and daphne were most in favor. Furs
played a leading role, accompanying well-
cut tailored suits of tweed and cloth. Lieu-
tenant-Governor Irvine was there and the
committee ladies’ box had a full complement
of occupants. Mrs. Ben Chaffey, wife of
the chairman, sported a brown suit with
matching felt hat, cheered with a flash of
orange velvet; Mrs. Merson Cooper had a
fawn-colored coat over a wine-colored frock,
with millinery of the same tint as the frock
Mrs. R. G. Casey, sen., was companioned
by Mrs. Arthur Bullivant, who was a study
in dark green. With Mrs. Richard Linton
and her sister Mrs. Murray Heffernan were
Mr. and Mrs. Gollan, of Sydney, who re-
joiced in a win for their gee-gee Casque
d’Or. Mrs. Gollan was wrapped in a mink
coat that covered a black gown, her hat
being also black. Mrs. C. C. Moore was
smartly attired in black and white. .Tean
Hambleton arrested the eye in a bright blue
frock and felt hat with a mole fur coat.
Mary Russell, of Beaufort, was fortified
against the weather in a dark green leather
coat with the same shade of frock and felt
hat. The Clive Leonards, Mr. and Mrs.
•Tames Purves and daughter Valerie, the
lass all in brown ; Florrie Green, the Lauch-
lan Mackinnons, JMrs. R. Gumming and
Mrs. Douglas Faulkner, of the Western Dis-
trict, were others who strolled the lawns.
At the Australian Flying Corps Associ-
ation’s dance, held at the Town Hall, minia-
ture aeroplanes figured in the decorations
above groupings of foliage and early cine-
rarias. The guest list included the Lud
Mayor, Rear-Admiral Hyde. Major-General
Bruche and Mrs. Bruche, and Brigadier-
General and Mrs. C. H. Jess. Air-Commo-
dore Williams and Mrs. Williams, she in
draperies of green lace, held out a welcoming
hand, along with Wing-Commander and
Mrs. A. D. Cole, and A. E. Chadwick.
The citizens of Fitzroy entertained Mayor
and Mayoress Apps at a ball and gave them
remembrances of their civic reign. The
Mayor received a set of fishing tackle and
his wife became possessor of a pair of dia-
mond ear-rings. Jean Parks, their niece,
was remembered with a present of a gold
wristlet watch.
The Swiss community in this city cele-
brated the anniversary of their republic
with song and dance in the lower chamber
of the Town Hall. National dress was worn
by a number of patrons and some charac-
teristic Swiss dishes figured in the supper.
Representatives of various consular bodies,
the British Trade Commissioner. H. Tj.
Setchell, and Mrs. Setehell, some other
special guests, and the Swiss Consul, .1. A.
I'ietzcker, and Mrs. Pietzcker were present.
About the time this Page is snuggling into
its pink coverlet the subject of this Dickin-
son -jjVlonteath
portrait, Betty
W i 1 k i nson,
daughter of
Mrs. It. S.
Helby, former-
ly of Adelaide,
will be taking
Major Edric
II en t y for
better or
worse at the
Collins - street
k i r k. The
bride is well
gilded, her
late father
having been
very .success-
ful in busi-
ness. T li e
bridegroom is
a descendant
of the Edward
Henty wh o
ploughed the first furrow in Vie. Major
Henty, who served in the Great War, is a
•son of the late H. P. Henty and of Mrs.
Henty, of South Yarra.
At the Uni. law students’ dance, held at
the Australia, the orchestra supplied appro-
priate atmosphere by appearing gowned and
wigged. Official guests included Justice
Lowe and Mrs. Lowe; Judge Williams and
daughter Ainslie, who wore black velvet:
Professor K. Bailey and Mrs. Bailey, she
in, chiffon patterned in shades of green;
Professor Patou and his wife.
Old Girls of St. Dutlius danced at Canter-
bury Memorial Hall in a Japanese setting.
The principal of St. Dutlius. Miss Davidson,
in black lace, shared the duties of hostess
with Una Cole, president of the O.G.A,
whose frilled frock was of rose-pink taffeta.
Members of the committee wore distinguish-
ing wristlets of tulle and tiny flowers. Leani
Ingham, the hop. sec., wore ivory-tinted lace,
and Mrs. Hume Macpherson, the lion, treas.,
was in floral chiffon.
The debs, of the Newman Society's Ball
a few weeks ago followed the usual custom
and gave a Hop themselves at No. 9 as a
compliment to Mrs. D. Barry and Mrs. F.
Coffey, who coached them for their coming-
out. The president of the Newman Society,
IT. F. Frederico, Mrs. Frederico and the
Rector of Newman, Father Murphy, were
official guests. The young hostesses wore
their white frocks, Tinka Luciui, the presi-
dent, being in ivory satin, and the lion, sec.,
Edna McSpeerin, in chantilly lace. Most of
the maidens added jackets of white fur. Mrs.
Barry and Mrs. Coffey, who wore black,
were each presented with a brass rosebowl.
Amy Lucini’s frock of geranium-hued georg-
ette had a coatee of emerald-green velvet
and Mena McGrath was in a flounced gown
of flamingo pink. Sheila Kenny sported
lace of nutmeg-tone topped by a cape bor-
dered with dark brown fur.
Patricia, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
,T. H. Hhod.es, of Armadale, exchanged vows
with Francis, eldest son of Dr. and Mrs.
R. N. Wann, of Prahran, at Christ Church,
South Yarra, wearing an ensemble suit of
satin and wool dc Chine of hyacinth-blue
shade, witli wide collar and cuffs of fox fur,
and a blue straw hat trimmed with pastel-
tinted flowers. June Calder, the bridesmaid,
sported a navy blue and white figured silk
frock with a navy coat and hat. There was
a luncheon at Menzies’ afterwards.
Broothorn pictures here Mrs. Alexis Cher-
niavsky, whose husband is piloting the
Thorndike co.
through its
tour of the
D o m i nions.
Alexis is the
youngest of the
musical fam-
ily first known
to Australians
by the per-
formances of
Le o, Mischa
an d Ja n.
Alexis joined
the trio later
as accompan-
ist to the two
string players.
For the last
five years or
so Leo and
Alexis ha v e
been in busi-
ness as entre-
preneurs, with
headquarters in London. The first nota-
bility they sent overseas was Pavlova. Mrs.
Alexis, who was Ella Fremes, hails from
Toronto, Cauada. She has been married six
years, and has travelled continuously with
her husband. She is now making her
second trip to Australia.
Alison, daughter of the Bernhard Smiths,
of Armadale, Avedded Geoffrey, son of the
William Perrys, of South Yarra, at Gram-
mar School chapel, wearing a crepe Almonza
frock of delphinium shade with a felt hat of
the same color.
A party in honor of Major Edric Henty
and his bride-elect, Betty Wilkinson, was
given a day or two before the wedding by
the wife of Dr. Douglas Stephens, whose
eldest daughter Margery was a bridesmaid.
The hostess wore a gown of golden-brown
angel’s skin fashioned with puff sleeves and
slightly trained. Margery was all in cream
in sports mode. Black velvet with a spray
of blue muslin roses on the corsage was
worn by Miss Wilkinson.
Associates of Kew Club held an open day
on the club’s links, when some 200 women
did the rounds. The tournament was
directed by the president of the associates,
Mrs. W. E. Druee, the hon. sec., Miss Koch,
and the captain, Mrs. J. F. Sutherland.
St. Vincent’s Hospital benefited by golf
competitions on the eastern links at Don-
caster, when 400 players representing 15
clubs participated. Cups for annual com-
petition were presented by Dr. H. B. Devine
and ,T. -J. Liston. The Professional Golf
Association lent a hand in the sport and
contributed to the prize fund.
Laluma, the Toorak home of Mrs. Lauch-
lan Mackinnon, Avas the scene of a bridge
party to help the Children’s Hospital. The
committee of the hospital, of which Mrs.
Mackinnon is president, gave a hand Avith
sales of flower's, pot-plants, sweets and novel-
ties. Members of the Toorak Auxiliary, of
which Mrs. Jim Graham is president and
Mary Inglis hon. sec., sponsored the affair,
which netted over £l2O.
The Lud Mayor presided at the yearly
recording in connection with St. Vincent's
Hospital's “little green shop,” when life
governorships were presented to several vol-
untary workers, including It. A. Clarey, the
auditor. Mrs. Alston entertained the gather-
ing at afternoon tea.
Women on the lecturing and teaching stalf
and engaged in research at the Uni. had a
reunion dinner at the Lyceum Club. Over
40 attended the gathering, which was
arranged by Dr. Hilda Rennie, Dr. Gwynneth
Buchanan and Elise Steele. After the meal
Mrs. Ernest Scott gave a talk about Chinese
cooking, and Miss Steele brought out her
violin.
Heather Smith and Eileen Stainkamph
were hostesses ,at a welcome to Lorna Com-
pagnoni, a young Queensland violinist who
halted here on her way to take advantage of
an It.A.M. scholarship in London. Miss
Compagnoni, in a pretty white frock with
touches of silver, gave a sample of her
talent, Phyllis Parlett furnishing the piano
accompaniment. Grace Evans sang.
Mrs. Maie Hoban, wearing sand-hued
georgette with a broAvn hat. read a paper
upon the “Growth of American Music” at
the rooms of the English-speaking Union,
her remarks being illustrated by music made
by Countess Fillipini, Phyllis Dickenson,
Ernest Kopke and Pearl Campbell.
To assist the mission of St. James and St.
John the Proscenium Club performed “The
Laughter of Fools,” by 11. F. Maltby, at the
Playhouse. Irene Mitchell took the leading
rOle at very short notice and the perform-
ance went. very smoothly. Arthur Fay,
Dorothy Wise, Margaret Fay, Eileen John-
stone and Collins Hilton Avere the chief
players, and the piece was Avell staged and
dressed. Godfrey Cass was producer.
In “Captain Brassbotnid’.s Conversion”
Dame Thorndike as Lady Cicely Waynflete
makes her first appearance in a jade blue
flowered silk frock patterned in russet tones,
with a cherry satin sash, wearing her fair hair
in a plait coiled round her shapely head.
In the first-night audience were Mrs. Fred
Thiel. Mrs. Leslie Macdonald, Mrs. Percy
Blackbourn, Colin Campbell Smith of
Maoriland, Dr. and Mrs. IT. Hewlett and
daughter Nancy, the Charlie Taits, the John
Taits and Mrs. S. Whitehead from the
Broken Biver district.
Commander A. A. Kroef, of the Itoyal
Packet Line, and his wife and family will go
to live in Sydney towards the end of this
month. The lady put on a farewell bridge
party at her home in Malvern.
The Speck speaking:—
Mrs. Tom Murdoch has been voicing a much-
needed protest in the University Council against
musical students being eligible for voice training
from the age of 15, instead of 18 as formerly. She
has the opinion of Fritz Hart, Mary Campbell and
other authoritative teachers to back her up.
To raise funds in aid of the sick and unemployed,
a big committee ran a show at the Town Hall. A
very good musical programme filled the first half
and two short plays, “A Minuet” and “The Perfect
Butler,’’ the second. Mrs. Alan Salter, the N, P.
Booths, Jack Mitchell, Brian Hodgman and Brendan
Clarke were among the actors, while the musicians
included Marguerite Morrisby, David Feirclough, H.
McCann, Mrs. Blair Hay, Dorothy Lloyd, and Jack
Andrew.
The Lyceum Club gave the hand of welcome to
Mrs. McColl, the new military commandant’s wife.
The president, Mrs. Henry Dobson, received the
guests in rooms decorated with early spring flowers.
Winter sports enthusiasts are under an obligation
to the State Unemployment Committee for deciding
to build a road from the National Park railway
station to Lake Fenton. Hitherto there have been
long miles of bush road to be footed before the
skating and ski-ing began.
Catherine Cullinane, all-round young sportswoman,
Repertory actress, secretary to various societies and
handsome society girl with it all, will be missed in
Hobart. She is off to Bananaland to take up farm-
ing there. Her big .circle of friends wishes her the
best of luck.
The Mayor opened the Dog and Poultry Show at
the City Hall. There were some lovely animals on
exhibition and some fine birds, too. The cocker
spaniels were tremendously admired.
Mount Wellington is in special favor this fine
winter as a resort for the mid-winter holiday people.
Most of the cottages have been full as well as the
hotel and boarding-houses. Among those who took
their families aloft were the C. T. Butlers, the C.
Wolfhagens, the Harvie Thompsons, the G. A. Perrys,
Dr. and Mrs. Stewart Gibson and Mrs. Alan Giblin.
The Barclay sisters were a strong trio in the
qualifying rounds for the Royal Hobart associates’
golf championship. Effie Barclay got away with
it in the end. Mrs. Lindon presented her with the
Cup, at the clubhouse at Rosny. The junior associ-
ates’ championship was carried off by Miss D.
Bohman.
From Adelaide:—
The boys in the preparatory school at St. Peter’s
College entertained a large gathering in the Mem-
orial Hall and helped charity with a programme
of four plays. “The Sweeps of Ninety-eight” was
voted specially good.
The South Australian Lacrosse Association raised
about £lOO by means of a queen competition to
pay expenses for inter-State travelling. Each club
had nominated a queen, and at the dance the finals
were declared, and the Mayoress (Mrs. C. R. J.
Glover) crowned the winning maiden, Miss Afiavis
Tonkin, who represented Goodwood club.
The Anglican Bishop of Bathurst (Dr. Crotty)
was the guest of honor at a Mayoral reception at the
Town Hall, where the almond and cherry blossom in
white and pink gave a foretaste of spring. Mrs. Glover
was gowned in amethyst faille, with a velour hat
to match. The Bishop spoke warmly upon the sub-
ject of Toe H.
Everyone interested in kindergarten work is busy
with preparations for the big Kindergarten Ball
in the Town Hall on August 25. There will be
bridge in the reception-room; Mrs. R. K. Wood will
have charge of the supper arrangements, and Mrs.
Eric McMichael and Mrs. S. Reid are looking after
the liquid refreshments. A ballet will be given
by pupils of Miss Nora Stewart in costume.
Miss Mollie Knight, a daughter of the Cecil
Knights, of Unley, is visiting a sister in Katoomba
(N.S.W.) prior to her departure for the Malay
States, where she will marry Mr. C. Kneebone.
Taiping is to be her future home.
The Cockney Cabaret held at the Palais Royal
realised £l5O in aid of the Church of England
Boys’ Home at Walkerville.
Westralian gaieties:—-
The coral-trees were a blaze of glory for- the
Hunt Club meeting at Belmont Park, and two
temporary lakes rippled in the foreground, with
emerald fields and the curling river in the distance.
Captain Bertram, shepherded by the C. P. Smith
family, had his first taste of Australian races.
Among punters were the Hunt Club’s president,
Jack Durack, with his better half, whose brown
frock was pleated from the hip line. Mrs. Gwynne
ip a tailored blade garment, the top covered with
ftir fabric, got a thrill out of the race won by son
George; her slim daughter Mrs. Bell wore a tweed
ensemble. Violet Holmes chose a mulberry coat
and skirt and her sister was in Robin Hood green;
Mrs. Cam Milne’s grey flannel was belted with steel
links; Airs. Dan Mulcahy wrapped herself in a
gorgeous squirrel coat; Dorothy Stenberg wore a
little black hat with her mustard frock; Airs. Jim
Afonteath’s white fox lay across her diminutive
black and white check; Airs. Bill Broadhurst and
Bernie Reid walked together in black coats and
skirts; Grace Gavan Duffy’s jumper drew a glance
with its scarlet and white bands; Airs. Alec AVilliams
was in sulphur wool lace; Mrs. Alansficld chose
honey-tinted flecks; Mrs. Ben Prevost wore beauti-
fully-cut brown face cloth; the Hayes girls Eileen
and Sheila wore grey and green respectively; Mollie
Lloyd’s black showed a generous proportion of fur
fabric; a green scarf accompanied Alaude Alitchell’s
tailored suit, and Alarm Anderson, in grey flannel,
also chose green neckwear to match her beret.
The Animal Ball rolled along in Temple Court:
gone are the days of fancy sets in a packed G.-H.
ballroom. Airs. Carcary came along in a lame
jacket over her lavender draperies. Airs. Alfred
Burt in black lace, Aliss Villiers in citron chiffons,
Aire. Kitching and Mrs. Parry in black and Mrs.
Bremner, her black pricked with gold beads, were
among the bunch of officials present. Airs. Hamers-
ley wore red; Alabel Balding allied silver lame
with black velvet ; Becca Davies swished dawn-pink
laces and sister Jo was moulded into oyster satins ;
Claire Noonan was in pink and Sylvia George favored
mignonette greens. After supper flowers On the
tables were sold to augment the sum fetched from
auctioning dolls and toy beasties.
The ( Symphony Orchestra Sunday night concerts
are like a snowball, each drawing bigger crowds
than the last. Mr. Franklin, with his Mayoress,
Mrs. Sinclair, and the professorial Rosses sat in
the seats of honor at the last concert. There was
a twittering of expectation over Captain Bertram,
but the much-sought-after hero was unable to be
present. Featured upon the programme was the
Overture from “Tannhauser.”
For the Naval Reserve Ball in Fremantle Drill
Hall there was a decorative model of the submarine
Oxley anchored to the bed of the ocean among
coral and lurking fishes. Lieut, and Mrs. Hatton
offered a greeting, she with pink roses pinned to
the shoulder of her black chiffons. Mrs. Griffith
Bowen, Mrs. Martyn, the Hobbs lady and Mrs.
Meredith appeared with their spouses. Fremantle’s
mayoress, Mrs. Gibson, displayed a shade of tawny
port; russet patterning was scattered upon Mrs.
Percy White’s inky chiffons; Mrs. McKellar Hall
slipped a wee velvet jacket over her sherry-red
frock; Marian Gibson wore China-blue taffetas;
Nina Jackson mixed ninon with her geranium moire;
Mrs. Dunckley pinned on violets to match the
design upon her white taffetas; greens predominated
in the flowered gown worn by Hettie Forbes.
Among passengers who threw streamers from the
decks of the Orsova were Mrs. Couch and Theone,
medico and Mrs. McKellar-Hall, all bound for
Europe, and Cecilia Brennan, who is off to spend a
holiday with her sister, Mrs. Peter Vigne, of Ceylon.


>1
7
.rt;
unes
and
At
CONCESSION RATESJ
to
SUVA, FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days
First-class Return .... £33
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva—
Seven Weeks’ Tour—
First-class Return .... £75
Cabin-class Return ... £53
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Via Wellington, N.Z.
Twenty-three Days’ Tour—- ,
First-class Return .... £45
Cabin-class Return ... £34
PAPEETE, TAHITI.
Via Wellington and Rarotonga—
Seven Weeks’ Tour
First-class Return .... £55
Cabin-class Return ... £4O
(No Exchange.)
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney
oO William Street, Melbourne.
with
Alemite
High Pressure Lubricating Systems
Force out the old bring in the new
that’s ALEMITE-ing the modern,
scientific system of lubricating motor
car bearings. As ALEMITE Lubricants
—specially compounded for their vari-
ous exacting duties—are forced by
high pressure to bearings and metal
to metal contact surfaces, old lubri-
cants actually FLUSH out, carrying
away grit, dirt and debris. The cost of
ALEMITE-ing is no greater than
“greasing”— the benefits are reckoned
in thousands of added miles. SAVE
WITH ALEMITE !
(arbqxjP^
Exactly what the name
implies: a solvent of
carbon deposits.
One application of CARBO-SOLVE is sufficient to decoke a badly carbonized
engine. It is guaranteed harmless to cylinders, pistons and valves. .
engine performance, increased mileage; ask at your ALEMITE 6r^C^ ust
or write for particulars to:
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S.W.
Or the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES. Ltd.,Brisbane ATKINS (W. A.) .Ltd., 89*HaySt.,
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
ALEMITE CORPORATION • * Chicago,U.S.A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
Lilith.
BY G. MUNRO TURNBULL,
AUTHOR OF TWO OF “THE BULLETIN’S”
SE.ST SEHIALS .
SHE was lithe and trim and vital, straight-
backed, firm-breasted; she was I’apua
moving rhythmically in the moonlight;
she was a primitive creature, a jungle girl,
a savage of the wilds; she was Miria, and he
loved her. He could not let her go.
The tropic night lay warm and languorous,
sweet with the scent of frangipanni, oleander,
magnolia; heavy with the sensuousness of
btidoa; shrill with the ceaseless noise of
insects; pale with the light of the moon on
gently-rustling palm-fronds. • Somewhere in
tlie native lines drums were thrumming.
Sinister, they sounded, menacing, fear.-iinspir-
ing—rising, falling, quickening, dying—with
a low undercurrent of savage emotion. '
“I dance for you, my Hari? .Yds?” '
Harry Calthorpe swung his long legs, out
of tlie wicker lounge and adjusted his weight.,
to its sagging edge. The air was throbbing
now with a rhythm irresistible to Miria’s
savage little heart. Sl;6 was looking at him
with fluttering eyes, wistfully expectant, like
a dog ready to sit up and beg at its master’s
nod. It was easy to go to the devil with
booze and women in New Guinea. Miria
had saved him from that. She had brought
light and laughter into his solitary. life; she
was something infinitely adorable and
precious; she had made him feel humble,
conscious of the loneliness and emptiness of
the days before her coming. She had been
pure and uncontaminated then; she was pure
and uncontaminated now. It was no sordid
fleshly passion, no mere animalism, this love
of his for her. Damn Berriman! Damn the
Baramata Trading Company! He couldn’t
abandon Miria; he wouldn’t let down this
honey-colored witch who had taken such
complete possession of his life.
“Dance for me, Miria,” he said.
She laughed with a child’s laugh of pure
pleasure, and darted into tlie bedroom.
Excitement stirred within Calthorpe as
through the flimsy reed screen he caught the
Hash of her golden-brown body, the upward
sweep of her arms as she drew her skimpy
frock over her bead. He heard the rustling
of the short grass kilt she was fastening
round her waist, the rattling of the dogs’-
teeth chaplet she was binding about her
brow. The screen parted and she stepped
out on to thq verandah, moving with a
wanton side-swing of the hips that set her
lcirtle swaying. Calthorpe leaned forward
filled with a profound feeling of tenderness
towards her.
Out in the compound the drums were
throbbing eerily; native voices rose on the
still air crooning a melancholy chant. Miria
stood poised like a slim, straight sapling, her
hands folded demurely across her breasts, lier
chin tilted, showing the soft curve of her
throat, her 'full red lips pouting, her dark
eyes full of forbidden fire. She began to
dance to the throb of the drums, dreamily,
seductively; a ripple of the body, no more,
a sinuous movement from the waist up;
teeth, unstained by betel-nut, showing from
beneath slightly parted lips, head bent for-
ward. Calthorpe stared at her in a kind of
awe. They expressed the passion of a wild
thing, those sinuous movements of Miria’s
body, passion half-revealed, half-restrained.
Something fierce and uncontrollable took
possession of him, firing his blood, making
his pulses leap, constricting his throat.
The drums speeded up. The girl’s move-
ments became more intense, exultant, defiant;
the thin web of her kilt now flouting, now
caressing her swaying form. Still the tempo
of the drums quickened and her body
writhed with sheer abandon. The very air
seemed to shudder. Then, as though some
invisible conductor had given the signal,
there was dead silence that left Calthorpe
trembling, breathless, staring as if under a
spell. For a long half-minute Miria stood
poised, breasts heaving, eyes flashing.
“You like my dance, my Hari? Yes?”
She came towards him with an odd, pos-
sessive little swagger. She was real and
primitive and innocently desiring. Calthorpe
was overcome by a wild rush of emotion that
left him sick, dizzy, gasping for breath.
Then, suddenly, a deferential cough im-
pinged on his ear-drums. rm
breath noisily and a wave of irritation s 1
“That you, Korabi? he snapped. .
“Yes, master.” A thick-thewed massiveb-
pro portioned native with the eye of a hawK
and an impenetrable brown mask of a tai
came up the steps. Miria flashed a look or
coquetry at him and vanished into the bach
regions.’ Calthorpe put a curb upon his ris-
ing irritation. Korabi, his overseer, was a;
native in a thousand and his right-hand man.
Therefore he listened with patience to tie
tale of cocoanuts collected, cocoanuts split
and husked and disembowelled and spread in
the sun to dry; of copra made and copra
bagged, and copra weighed on the steel-
yard for shipment. While one ear was tak-
ing it all in, the other was straining tor
the soft “pad-pad” of Miria’s bare feet, the.
swish of her fibre skirt. She had wound up
the cranky gramophone. Gratingly, rasp-
ipgly, .tunes that were old. when lie, Cal-
thorpe, was young, floated through the
bungalow. ■ • ,
“Nabadi of the One Eye was bitten by ft
snake to-day,” Korabi was saying. “A black
snake, master, with a yellow belly’ —-
“Kiss me, ma honey, kiss me,
And say you’ll miss me,
When I am gone” .
Cheap tunes, trite words—pre-war, pre-
-jazz, pre-everything. Still. . . .the naked
immeusity of tall buildings looming mon-
strous against the stars the gleaming
tiara of the North; Shore Bridge hanging like
a new and mighty constellation over' the
lesser lights.of Sydiiey Harbor. .. .screaming :
syrens of vessels passing Garden Island....
the- triumphant .roar of trams on paved
streets....
“He will not die. master. I. Korabi, cut
liis flesh with my knife made hot with fire
and rubbed in the ‘karistals’ ”-—
“Put your urms around me, honey,
Ho-old me tight”
Theatres, bright lights, excitement, soft
living—he had been! a boy when he had cut
himself adrift from the things that count!
“Cuddle, up and huddle, up with all your might,
Oh, tatje! Close those dreamy eyes,
Eyes that I ,just” —.
Ice tinkling in thin glasses, mess-jacketed
waiters, .swift and silent; the soft voices of
women who were fair, fair of face and fair
of form'.'... ; .
Calthorpe wrenched his thoughts away.
Miria, .the light-hearted, laughing junglmgirl;
Miria of the pouting lips and warm golden-
brown body was the centre, of liis life. To- %
morrow he would, give. Berriman his answer.
“I go now, master.”
Korabi lounged to the steps. Calthorpe
saw the muscles ripple and bulge under the
cotton singlet which covered his torso. A
splendid animal of a man!
“Good-night, master.”
“Good-night, Korabi.”
Silent and still and fragrant the tropic
night pressed warmly on the earth; close
the stars seemed, intimate, softly glowing;
the Waning moon gave the slender palm
trunks a silver nakedness.
“Miria!.” lie called softly.
* ❖ ♦ $
There were heavy pouches under. John
Berriman’s shrewd grey eyes, a suggestion
of grossness under his stubborn chin. He
was big. slow-moving, flabby, but men called
him “Johnny-on-tlie-Square,” and he was
prouder of the nickname than of being the
Wealthiest planter in New Guinea.
He was lying on Calthorpe’s verandah, a
long pjnk drink at bis elbow, a long black
cigar between his teeth. .
“Sorry we can’t do business, after all,
Calthorpe,” he rumbled. “I was counting
on closing the deal. Mind you, I’m not press-
ing you, and the company isn’t pressing you :
but ten thousand pounds”
“There’s nothing doing,” Calthorpe cut iu.
“I was willing to easli-in a year ago. I’m
not now. That’s/all there is. to it.”
Berriman pulled thoughtfully on liis cigar.
Something wrong here, he was thinking—
something not quite right. A year ago the
idea of selling out had dominated Calthorpe s
mind to the exclusion of everything else.
The bitter loneliness, the terrible isolation
of his existence on the one-man plantation
he had wrested from the living jungle was
beginning' to get under his skin, he had skid.
Most men who had attempted what Cal-
thorpe had achieved had gone crazy in the
process—or gone native, Isut not Calthorpe.
Calthorpe had won out, he had beaten that
subtle something that gets the white man
who doesn’t fight it all the time. He was
no misfit, no drifter. A home of his own in
civilisation, his own hearth to come back to
at the dav’s end. a wife, perhaps kiddies—
that had been Calthorpe. What, the devil
was biting the man now? ' -
: “Ten thousand!” Berriman mused aloud.
“Not a princely fortune, to be sure; but
real money, son. A fellow with guts could
do a deuce of a lot with”
“There’s nothing doing,” Calthorpe snarled.
He had. risen. He poured out a drink and
swallowed it quickly. “Sorry, Berriman,” he
apologised. “I’m being damned rude, I
know —snapping you up and behaving, like
a kid. I —l’ve changed my mind. I —er”
“Quite all right, son,” Berriman spoke
soothingly. “You know your own business
best.” ,
There was something damnably wrong.
Calthorpe looked white, sick; lie was. drink-
ing a great deal more than was good for a
man who had been living for years on his
nerve. He liked Calthorpe. Everybody liked
him. Pity if he was heading for-some, sort
of a breakdown.
Then Berriman sat up, suddenly. A girl
came out of the living-room. A one-piece
garment that barely reached to her knees
revealed rather than concealed a figure that
was sheer beauty.- A scarlet hibiscus bloom
thrust carelessly behind her ear stood out
like a splash of blood against the soft dusk-
iness of her skin : in her hair was a star-
shaped flower of virginal whiteness ; a neck-
let of pale grey Job’s tears set off the enticing
curve, of her throat. Calthorpe caught her
hand as she passed and allowed his own to
run gently down her arm as she drew away
to the stops.
Berriman stared, frowned, gulped his
drink. Calthorpe was still watching the girl.
She walked with a litheness through the
palm grove, swaying her slim hips, and there
was conscious coquetry in every line of her.
Caltliorpe’s eyes, his body, liis whole soul
were concentrated on her, reaching out to
her in sheer blind worship.
“Better sign the transfer I’ve got in my
pocket,” Berriman said levelly. He was
looking at Calthorpe with sudden anxiety
and a kind of dismay.
Calthorpe bit off an. explosive word and
immediately apologised. He wished . Ber.ri-
man would not stare at him so. There was
a sort of- compassionate understanding in the
old man’s' eyes that affected him unpleas-
antly. He was' being criticised, silently con-
demned, and it rankled intolerably.
“Have a drink, will you?” he said quickly
and unsteadily. “Gin and bitters for you?
Say when.”
“When,” Berriman grunted. It was too
bad, he reflected, now that he had the key to
Calthorpe’s changed attitude. It was a
damned shame. Calthorpe was off the rails,
and he was the sort that ran nowhere if
not dead true to type. Pity!
“Good luck. Calthorpe,” he said. "Best
of luck, son.” And to Himself: “You’re
going to need it, you poor prawn !”
ijc 1 _ *.
A mood of optimism, of abounding joyous-
ness possessed Harry Calthorpe that night.
It was good to have turned his back for
qver upon the tangle of doubt that had been
worrying -him of late, good to feel that in
turning down Berriman’s offer he had done
a fine thing; a kindly, generous, manly thing.
She was such a pretty, gentle little witch —
Miria ; it was his duty to shelter her. pro-
tect her, keep her warm against the harsh
winds of life. She trusted him. And he
had found in her that which he had always
been seeking. Simply to think of her, her
flashing eyes, her slim, exciting body, her
unspoiled mind, wanned him to the depth<
of lux being. Sell out? Give her up? It
was like asking a man to sever a limb from
his body.
For a moment he felt an impulse to un-
burden himself to Berriman. But the sat*
of life had dried up in the old # lad. lie
lived in a world of pounds, shillings and
pence, of profits and losses, of bull markets
and bear markets. Moreover. Calthorpe
knew with a sudden-disagreeable certainty
that Berriman would tell him that he was
crazy. Let him! Berriman was utterly un-
important nojv, a transient shadow in the
bungalow.
Calthorpe stood up, stretching.
“I promised to go down to the labor lines,"
he announced. “Got a man laid up with
snakebite. Care to come along?”
Berriman grunted a refusal. He did not
look up from the ancient magazine lie was
reading.
Calthorpe stepped out into the, throbbing
tropic darkness. It was amazing to him
and wonderful, the magic of the night, the
tang of moist earth, the fragrance of grow -
ing things. The massed feathery fronds of
the palms waved softly with an indolent
contentment, the cloistered aisles between
the trunks were dim and shadowy in the
pale starsliine.
Breathing an incense that, was like a bene-
diction, listening to the murmur of the phan-
tasmal palms, the eternal chirring of the
insect world, Calthorpe himself t<»
the witchery of the night. What nj poor
exchange for this were the high lights of
life! He thought of Miria and began to
hunger for her.
There were voices near him. hushed
whispers, low laughter, soft footfalls in the
shadows. Some love-drunken youth, some
happily-excited girl with star-flowers in her
hair, out there in the cathedral vastness of
the palm grove.
Then all at once he stopped, stiffened.
He turned sharply, probing the night with
suddenly-narrowed eyes. It sounded again,
the voice that had startled him, the warm,
throaty voice full of soft Melanesian vowel
sounds and slurred, lisping consonants. He
drew in big breath sharply. An age passed,
but in fact it was only a matter of seconds
before realisation smote him.
“He is going, the white man” —there was
a coo in Miria’s voice, and a gurgle of
laughter-—“back to the land of the white men.
“He is the son of the father of all fools.
Let us not talk of him.”
“For many moons I liavo waited tins
day with patience. Now we are free—free
as the south-east wind —Ai-ee! What a man
you are, Korabi!”
The palm trunks seemed to waver gro-
tesquely before Calthorpe’s eyes, the familiar
night sounds of the bush roared in his ears.
He made a swift step forward, then checked
himself; cleared his throat but found no
words. Then he broke into laughter. “Well.
I’ll be damned!” he told the star-dusted
heavens.
* * * *
He was back at. the bungalow.
“Got that transfer handy, old .Tohnuy-on-
the-Square?” he called out. “I’m ready to
sign on the dotted line.”
Berriman was pouring out a drink for
himself. He lifted his glass and nodded.
“Good luck, son,” he said, and his voice
was queerly soft.
Their eyes met, held a moment. Calthorpe
averted his head. “Yes,’’ he conceded
thoughtfully. “I suppose, one could call it
—good luck!”


Dr. Morses Indian Root Pills are the Renowned Remedy for
The Cause. The Symptoms. The Remedy.
One of the most distressing troubles a person can endure is biliousness.
It is depressing to the spirits and demoralising to the entire system.
The person so afflicted is scarcely able to work or take an interest m
anything. This is because the sewers of the body are clogged and need flushing
out The bile is turned from its proper channel and enters the blood and produces
that peculiar cast of complexion.
The sufferer may be very restless, uneasy or sleepless at night, or perhaps the
slumber is lethargic and dull. There are usually dull pains, uneasiness under the
right side and shoulder blades, a bitter taste in the mouth, sudden dizziness on rising,
furred tongue, bowels loose one day and
constipated the next. All or any of these
conditions may accompany the bilious con-
dition, and while so afflicted the patient’s life
is scarcely worth living.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
relieve this trouble speedily and cast
the burden from the spirits. They open
the clogged-up system, purify the blood,
and once more the human mechanism works
smoothly and easily.
When buying BE , SURE AND OBTAIN DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS,
which are packed in this familiar wrapper, printed in blue.
1
m
vys/s
mmm
E? Morses
m
Yz
I
i
i
1
&
I
2
2
LIVER
'
the
FOR
/yy/zy/y/A/yy/yy/y
z
r Y
%
mm
Ya
'/A
'yZ///Z/Z/Zyy///y
MADE IN AUSTRALIA-BY AUSTRALI
... , . • - - '-L X-.V "• - :V.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin"
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which l enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATESs Australia — l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/»
Overseas 12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/*
W'
0
0
e
A°
1 •'
s V e
.* ‘ o' vl \t)°


AND SO TO PERFECTION
I
IS
n:
/
DULLtS
M) LEjF
OINCE CAXTON’S invention of the printing press,
endless experimenting has brought it to its present
day perfection.
And so with cigarettes.
One smokes all brands in a search for perfection,
until one discovers Abdulla Virginia Leaf!
And then—the cigarettes of substantial size, perfectly
blended from finest Virginia tobacco; the careful hand
packing and handsome wrapping ; the unvarying satis-
faction—give the absolute perfection that only Abdullas
possess.
\bdull/\
VIRGINIA LEAF
CORK TIPPED
CIGARETTES
lOs PACKETS 2O'S FLAT TINS—I%
OUe Perfect Cigarette demanded People of Discrimination.
