

Choose a Willard
.... for Dependability
as well as for long Life
d
MM,
IIP
SI
JL±
/
I
■
"
First of all, there’s a Willard Battery
of correct electrical size for your
car, as for every car.
Then Willard Dealers offer you
Willard 5-point Service... to help
you get out of that battery all the
dependability and long life that
Willard builds into it.
Summing it up ... you get as good a
battery as can be made... and
Willard Service helps you get every-
thing out of it. Frankly, here’s the
reason why more car owners buy
Willards every year than any other
make of battery.
THE WILLARD STORAGE BATTERY
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
e
STORAGE
BATTERIES
Supplies Limited,
Brisbane.
Westcott, Hazell & Co., Limited,
Sydney.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Brooklands Accessories Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Automobile Electric Service,
Adelaide.
Atkins (W.A.), Limited,
Perth.
The Bulletin
cfct&rr 11/'mid %
Vol. 53.—N0. 2715.
Wednesday, February 24, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


QUR Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
with full terms and particulars post
free, on application to
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
fieelarv
ce
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
...... SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Sool-let, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address j
S.B. 132
I_YSAGHT t
O
&
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
"41
Healthy Hair
Adds to
Youthful Beauty
Shampoo regularly with
Cuticura Soap preceded by appli-
cations of Cutieura Ointment.
This will keep your scalp in a healthy
condition and a clean scalp is essential
to good hair.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free. Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established 185/+.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE, - ’
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 117,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
Che new Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and “up-to-the-minute”
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the “N.Z. Referee”
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
'Phone: 85241.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM IQ WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men!
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland’s
Entire Population .
* • *
In Greater Brisbane
Chr Brisbane Courier*
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 8 °fo
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary .
»-.#■*
.Pott can more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Marlcet, from :
STh t Brisbane Courier.
Xhe Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone BSOO7.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets, ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLXER, 107
Fleet-street.
Special Announcement
to NationalAchserti&ers
Clk mercury
Tasmania’s National Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
1 9 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE:, “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House* Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency. Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney.; or
4911-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE ----3 d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
The Military Mind
It will -seem strange to many that one
of the most sympathetic books that have
been written in English about Gandhi
should be by a soldier and an Imperialist.
At the moment, the Mahatma occupies
much the same position in the minds of
those who take their opinions from the
popular press as Home-Rulers like Smuts
and Cosgrave did in other times. He is
dismissed as “a bat-eared little mounte-
bank, with a lunatic craze for notoriety”;
his teeth are spurned as irrelevantly as
Kruger’s whiskers were 30 years ago. Lieut.-
Colonel Hart, D. 5.0., M.A., whose Gandhi
and the Indian Problem (Hutchinson; 25.)
was rushed into print to meet the interest
created by the Round-table Conference,
writes about him as leaders of thought will
no doubt be writing in 20 years’ time. Hart
is opposed to Swaraj. In lecturing at
Dublin University, where he is Reader in
Indian History, he asks students to imagine
that the Chinese successfully invaded
Europe in 1757.
All Europe, with a culture entirely different from
that of the Chinese, might earnestly wish for
them to go, but if the Chinese had forcibly kept
all of us in leash, preventing various wars of the
nineteenth and twentieth centuries which we have
seen in Europe, might not one of our reasons for
freedom be but the desire to fly at each other’s
throats ?
Unfortunately, Gandhi has “that kink
which prevents him from . seeing that his
goal and ours is really the same.” Over
and over again the biographer stresses the
difference between the real Gandhi and the
caricature of the tabloid press. He is not
cunning or even clever, and. like most
Indians, he lacks a historical sense. He is
not a schemer, he is “utterly truthful.”
Some propagandists have accused him of
hostility to the untouchables. The truth
is he “has given a very great impetus to the
movement for their betterment by his own
splendid example.”
He has time and again done sweeper and latrine
work and induced other high-caste Hindus to do
At village or other gatherings he will
sit among the untouchables, and he has adopted as
a daughter an orphan girl from this caste.
Gandhi’s career is traced from his boy-
hood in Porbandar, where his grandfather,
father and uncle were Prime Ministers, to
the present day. His greatness is copeeded.
But his very goodness makes him a menace
to India and the world.
He has jumped into a chariot charging downhill,
and he is not at all sure whether he wants to go
uphill or downhill, or to the right or to the left.
He would much rather have stayecF still, developing
the spinning-wheel and working for Hindu-Moslem
unity and the removal of untouchability. He knows
nothing of politics or history. He is a great saint
and a very great man, but a poor politician and a
worse statesman.
This is a book that no one should miss
who wants a presentation of the Indian
problem by a recognised authority with a
mind as clear and unbiased as that of a
first-rate judge.
Par ergon, by Captain John Yardley,
D.S.O. (Dent; 10s. 6d.), begins at Ismailia,
in June, 1916. The author was in an ante-
room of Sir Archibald Murray’s house when
news of the sinking of the Hamp-
shire, and the death of Kitchener, arrived.
He had been wounded early in the war and
was performing such agreeable staff work as
the heroes of Montague’s “Fiery Particles”
specialised in—taking dispatches to General
Sarrail announcing Roumania’s impending
declaration of war, bear-leading an Ameri-
can pressman, and so on. He was in Cairo,
convalescing from sandfly fever after the
second Battle of Gaza, when the chance
offered to join the Egyptian Army and
serve in the Sudan. The rest of the book
a . description of his adventures in darkest
Africa or thereabouts, and very interesting
it all is. At Torit he took over command
of a company of Equatorials, and helped
to discourage local raiders who had got their
heads up on learning of Britain’s pre-
occupations elsewhere. He saw plenty of
bush fighting; also much else worth record-
ing. Near Lokiriama a tiny kingfisher
perched on a basin of water near his tent.
He was hardly bigger than a grasshopper, but in
every detail was a perfect replica of his larger
and better-known cousins. His plumage was as
bright and iridescent as that of the finest kingfisher
in Europe. His blue was dazzling, his white pure
as snow, and his red flashed like fire. For half an
hour I watched that little bird, not six feet away
from me, while he dived into my basin, shot out on
the far side, perched on the rim to preen himself,
and dived in again.
There are scores of passages as attractive
as that; the photographs are excellent, and
Lord Allenby supplies an appreciative fore-
word.
Sir John Fortesque, author of Following
the Drum, (Blackwood; 10s. 6d.), is not tech-
nically a soldier,
but he belongs to
a family of fight-
ing men and his
best-known works
are on military
subjects. His assets
are that he knows the truth and doesn’t
mind telling it. A description of Kit-
chener :
His long thin legs seemed too weak to carry the
great trunk imposed upon them. His eyes troubled
me. Apart from the fact that he had a squint,
those grey eyes seemed to me like the eyes of a
snake. His voice was not attractive, and though his
speech was pleasant and his manner affable 1 felt,
after an hour’s talk, that the man was as much a
stranger to me as ever.
He sums up, after a comparison with Wel-
lington :
After Waterloo it was the wisdom and moderation
of Wellington which softened the terms imposed on
France. I believe that the influence of Kitchener
might have been equally potent and beneficial at
Versailles. As a military leader and director I do
not reckon Kitchener to approach Wellington ; as a
civil and departmental administrator I think him
inferior to Wellington; but as a diplomatist, though
his methods were very different, I judge that he was
at least equal and might even have proved himself
superior.
He takes Smith-Dorrien’s side against
French, whom he represents, just before
Le Cateau, “undergoing the tortures of
conscious incompetence.” When Smith-
Dorrien decided to stand and fight at Le
Cateau, French had already moved his H.Q.
to Noyon 50 miles back, and assumed that
the 2nd Corps was shattered.
If the 2nd Corps had not been destroyed it
ought to have been, and that was enough for him.
Later, the two men were reconciled, and
they lunched together on Christmas Day,
1914. However, in February, 1915, French’s
animosity broke out again, and in May
Smith-Dorrien was forced to resign and go
back to England.
May not Smith-Dorrien have been really unfit for
his place, and Sir John French right to get rid of
him? Unfortunately, French allows us to entertain
no doubt upon the point, through the publication in
1919 of- his book “1914.” At the time of its
appearance I was engaged upon the official history of
the war, and I remember rushing eagerly to the
book in the confident hope that it would clear up
divers obscurities. After a very short perusal I
fell back aghast, saying, “This man must be mad.”
He labored to show that Smith-Dorrien had done
nothing right from the beginning, and bad been
especially wrong at Le Cateau. He made the wildest
statements which could be refuted by a glance at
official documents; he uttered downright falsehoods
which could have been proved to be such by living
witnesses, and he was so eager in defamation that
he not infrequently contradicted himself.
The study of Wolseley, who, in Sir John
Fortesque’s opinion, would have done better
in South Africa than either Roberts or
Kitchener, is equally frank and illuminating.
A most entertaining book, with some valu-
able footnotes to history.
RED PAGE.
Peter Hopegood: Poet
With regard to poetical output, it would
seem true that Australia is still “with child
of glorious great intent.”
The story of Adam Lindsay Gordon be-
comes- sorrowful mythology: a centaur lost
in the wilderness—then seen no more. Men
told their children about him; and their
children’s children thought they heard hoof-
beats on paths of immortality.
Kendall (conceived by Niobe), son of
Echo—early forgotten.
Brennan is a star in exile, unconstellated
at the South.
O’Dowd burns nearer.
“The Wild Swan” commands our middle
heaven.
But now a new luminary rises from the
West : Peter Hopegood, author of Austral
Pan, a man of whipcord and steel, a soldier,
a scholar, drole de corps; above all, a poet
of the Commonwealth.
A mettlesome creature, untamed through
years of war; toiling, in difficult peace,
among stockriders, and blackened by the
sun reflected from the earth; his muse is
natiye of the soil.
The first poem of his first book—its
christening poem—reads like Theocritus.
Hopegood describes Ovid’s Pan, “a cen-
tury before our Anno Domini”:
Something like a jolly drover, chasing black gins
into clover.
Afterwards, he passes to the coming of
Christ:
“Pan is dead,” the voice proclaimed. “Fear is
banished, earth is tamed..”
But it is not true... .for the poet says Pan
may still be found
Where the blossom-pink galahs crowd with bloom
the eoolabahs.
To the very oldest land, product of His ’prentice
hand. ,
Under tawny Capricorn, cloven hoof and gnarly horn,
Here the living Pan is fled, while the Old'World
mourns Him dead.
Hopegood even meets Him in a tram!
at the rush's solid jam
Tuning bodies, seeping- through, as Lawrence hints
in “Kangaroo.”
Pan is, of course, the fountain-head of
Communism:
He equalises black and tan.
(T*cd Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.”—The Conscience of Business.
“THE SENIOR STORE
MEN! LET QUALITY COUNT!
Anthony Horderns*
s
\
( I A'
L
7
\N
!m
Cool, Summer
Sports Shirts
In Quality Poplin
86
Men’s Cream Poplin
Sports Shirts. Featuring
smart shape, rolled-back
attached collar; also
pocket. Made in our own
workrooms of a reliable-
quality poplin for both
wash and wear. Size, 1
to 1 8 neck.
Price, each 8/6
Men’s Summer Underwear
at Competitive Prices
Athletic Singlets
Men’s White Cotton,
Elastic-knit Athletic
Singlets. No sleeves.
Size, 34 to 42 chest.
116
Price, each 1/6
Better Quality
Best-quality stout weave.
Price, each
1/9
2/3
Cellular Underwear
Delightfully cool, open
mesh, summerweight,
White Cellular Under-
wear for Men. Shirts
with short sleeves.
2111
Size, 34 to 44 chest. Trunk Drawers.
Size, 34 to 44 waist.
Price, per garment
2/11
Superior Quality Cellular Underwear
Men’s White Cellular Underwear, in superior quality stout weave.
Soft-finish Shirts, with short sleeves, 34 to 44 chest. Knicker
Drawers, 34 to 44 waist. Price, per garment 4/3
( Men’s Mercery, Ground Floor, George. Street.)
413
Buy Footwear at the Store
where Quality Predominates
K
Men’s
14*11
Neat Box Derby Boots
Men’s Box Derby Lace Boots. Good grade
leather. Standard screwed soles, no toecaps.
Smart Boots that will stand hard wear.
Black. Price, pair 14/11
In Tan. Price, pair 15/11
( Men’s Boots, Ground Floor, George Street.)
The Ideal Boot for Work
Mens Strong Work Boots
Special Work Boots of stout
Box Hide. Soles of best-grade
leather. Standard screwed and
sewn. Made by Anthony
Horderns’, in all sizes.
1416
Obtainable in Tan or Black. Price, pair . . 14/6
For Better Wear
é
Ensure Comfort when TRAVELLING
ft I £
with an
“OSOSNUG”
The Practical Travel Rug
The “Ososnug,” which is obtainable only
at Anthony Horderns’, is made of all-wool
rug material. It has a lightning-zip
fastener on the side, which, when open,
allows one to step inside, and when * the
fastener is pulled up, the body is com-
pletely covered, from the soles of the feet
to the waist. This prevents all uncora-
fortable draughts around the legs, and there are no loose ends or surplus
material to minimise comfort when seated. When not in use as a wrap, the
“Ososnug” will be found to be a very useful carrying or storage bag.
The “Ososnug” Wrap is made in three qualities, all embodying the same featvyes
of design. They are priced at 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
( Department, Ground Floor, Pitt Street. We pay carnage.)
When judging the value of the merchandise you buy the most
important factor is QUALITY. That is why so many thrifty
shoppers patronise Anthony Horderns’, where only quality
goods are sold, and the real value may be judged accordingly.
Fashionable Styles
for MEN
Smartly Cut from
HIGH-GRADE Fabrics
3-Piec
In All-Woo!
Worsted
from
69e
/
■
m
:
Men’s Worsted Sac Suits
Business and professional men favor these!
All-wool Worsted Sac Suits are available in
conservative Greys. Many dignified styles
to choose from. Featuring all those little
extras which are usually associated with
6916
69
made-to-order clothes. Price
Others, 75/-, 84/-, 105/-
Briarproof Tweed Sac Suits
Men's Briarproof Tweed Sac Suits. Coat,
Vest and Trousers. Smart designs in the
very newest tonings. Perfect-fitting gar-
ments. Coats can be had with either 2- or 3-
451-
button front. Trousers are finished with side
and hip pockets, belt loops, hip straps, waist pleats and
bottoms. Price
Best quality Price
cuffed
. 45/-
55/ -
An Exceptional Offer!
2-Piece Flannel Sports Suits
Better values than ever in Men’s Ready-for-
Service Suits! Here’s Sydney’s wonder value
in smart and stylish two-piece Suits. Made
of fashionable smooth-faced flannels that will
251-
wive service and satisfaction. Price .... 257-
Others, 30/-, 39/6, 42/-, 50/-
( Men’s Suits, Ground Floor, George Street.)
SYDNEY IrtBRIDGE
CELEBRATIONS
MARCH 19 T*
ONWARDS
ANTHONY HORDERN § SONS LIMITED
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.


THE SUNDERCOT Stump Jump Disc Cultivating Plough
10 -DISC
SIZE
CUTS sft.
14-DISC
SIZE
CUTS 7ft.
Supplied
with
levers for
either
team or
tractor
use.
m
i
■
n
S@S
m
mm
mm
J i V
i e
m
m ;
m
m
raw
&
SSR
m
.
wmm
HI
a? >■• “
*
s
tii
1
The
Summer
fallowing
implement
supreme.
Deals
effectively
with
Paddy-
melon
and other
heavy
weed
growths.
e un ercut as a greater sa e m Australia than any other disc implement. It works successfully in any type of country, amongst stumps
an s ones, in ar set a ow, in virgin Mallee soils, and in fallow rank with weeds. The alternate 18- and 20-inch discs set with undercut,
cu a eve ottom an eave a umpy tilth ideal for moisture conservation. Differential Cog Jump allows high jump without increase of draught.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
H. V.McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY., LTD.
(Sunshine Section),
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide. Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South
Brisbane.
Descriptive Folder, Price and Terms posted free on request.
ACCOUNTS
The articles published on “The Bulletin’s ' Land page have been reprinted
and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about book-
keeping is carried along, step by step, and shown how accounts are kept.
Every entry is explained in the simplest and clearest possible language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a proper basis and
keep it there.
In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every branch of the business
and see where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was
going back a little further every year. Had he known in time he might
have made changes that would have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts
is that they assume he knows something about book-keeping.
“The Bulletin,” at the request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce
a cheap textbook in which the whole business of book-keeping would be
dealt with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the means of everybody.
It will be sent from any “Bulletin” Office for sixpence, to which must be added 2d.
for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be found just as valuable
to traders and others who have hitherto had only a foggy idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
FARM


THE WINNING CALL
milll
1
m
*
m
mm
'TRY ARNOTT'S FAMOUS GOLDO
l PUFF BISCUITS with jam, fresh
or stewed fruit, whipped cream, with
ham, or paste or savoury titbits. Split
them and thinly spread with Sandwich
Relish or try them with butter and cheese.
You will find them most delicious and
popular with everyone.
pro
D
MOU S
FA
Moreover He appoints Himself
The studgroom of the Human Strain, the Priest of
Love and Joy and Pain.
The Patron of tile Cosmic Show to which the astial
Way backs g 0....
And, then, the inspired finish:
He seeks again his ancient haunts,
A squatter born, a squatter bred, with horns, Him-
self, upon His head.
His steps out back with glee are bent. He snuffs
the saltbush with content.
The deeper for His knowledge sure, His ancient
ways and works endure.
A unique poem; or, if we might make the
comparison, a kilderkin for a giant to drink
out of—to keep on drinking out of.
A cavalryman during the Great War,
Hopegood gives a picture of “Bohain—
-1918”:
“Saddles are emptied right and left.”
It’s blasphemous
To think some monkey in a field-grey coat
Can sit upon its damned Westphalian hams
Grinding the handle of an Einma-Gee
And dish out death like strings of sausages
To creatures full of pride and love of life.
A yahoo squirting death at honyliynyms
It isn’t really fit to valet. Oh
The world’s a shop and soldiering’s a thing
They teach at correspondence schools. My God,
Now wouldn’t that have made Pendragon puke?
Follows “A Shellshock Case,” with the
penetrating cry:
Goliath I had slain —they sent Azrael!
On soul-destroying wing, they sent Azrael!
“Vigil”:
The houses yawn; and rooms turn in their sleep,
Or, cab-liorse fashion, shift their idle weight.
Read “The Wood Goblin in School”:
He could run like a deer, and turn like a hare,
But, when clear away for a try,
As like as not, he’d suddenly stop
To stare at a butterfly.
Read “The Occidental Salesman”
“She’s ma seestaire.” Read “Willy-Willy
and Cock-eyed Bob.” Read “Galahs.”
There is lunatic humor in “Some Catterel”
—better than Barham’s—decorated ex-
quisitely by inspired lines. Taste, for
example, the description of a feline Juliet:
Or over th.e garden wall she drips
Like the velvet drop that aches to fall
In the bottomless tarn from the precipice tall,
Or a sleek black plum that the night wind’s fingers
Pluck when with chuckle and croon he lingers
To twist with a backward-breathed “Amen”
The ready and ripe from the parent stem.
And, for Villonesque humor, brought com-
pletely up to date, it will be hard to equal
“ While of Unsound Mind.”
In all humility I go,
My vehicle a lmmble rope.
Small choice has Lazarus, you know,
Of paths beyond his pocket’s scope.
Besides this rope is symbol fit
Of the dog’s life that I have seen—
Clean docked the nether end of it.
However snarled the bight between
, God knows what waits for me beyond.
God knows the little that I care.
Sleep, or the mystic’s vision fond—
God knows .it can’t be meaner there!
We gazed not eye to eye, my friends,
Towards the goal we deemed worth while,
For bitterness no lesion mends
And death has little use for bile.
Wherefore my mourners all I greet
In soldier style, before I go—
See, to my ragged trousers’ seat
I’ve pinned a sprig of mistletoe.
This cynical interpretation of the Christian
adage, to turn “the other cheek,” leaves the
carper high and dry, without a word to
offer.
HUGH MCCRAE.
Art in Melbourne
Sydney Ure Smith told the Sydney
Rotarians the other day that the crudity
and vulgarity of Sydney was totally absent
from Melbourne, and that the southern city
led in art and was therefore destined to
lead in government.
I should think so.
The cultural superiority of Melbourne is
obvious to every visitor. No jazz is per-
mitted in our picture theatres. When a
conductor recently attempted to substitute
a Blues item for the Beethoven symphony
which invariably serves as overture, the
police Ijad great difficulty in rescuing him
from the infuriated audience. Our legiti-
mate stage alternates magnificent produc-
tions of Ibsen, Shaw and Strindberg with
Shakspeare and Pirandello. So high-class
are the programmes of our broadcasting
companies that almost everybody has a
listening set; some take them with them on
picnics, and even cars are fitted with them.
The classic statues in the Fitzroy Gardens
are considered to be finer than the originals,
especially since they were restored. So con-
suming is the passion for culture amongst
our people that when Miss Ola Cohn carved
a dead tree-trunk in the same gardens with
bas-reliefs, admirers of the work could not
refrain from taking chunks home with them,
to contemplate them at their leisure. When
a new picture is added to the National col-
lection the crush in Swanston-street is
terrific; the trams have to be diverted.
The patronage of art is so generous that
few of our painters are without a town
and country house and a complete set of
automobiles, but their loathing of display
is so great that most of them take their
meals at coffee-stalls and sleep in their
studios. It is true that our lending libra-
ries stock Edgar Wallace, as well as the
noblest literature, but their myriad patrons
only take them home to throw at the cat
or use as doorstops. Our daily papers are
written exclusively by experts in art, letters,
music and science, and the Saturday maga-
zine articles are so profound that, through
being so frequently brought in contact with
them, even our sausages have a thoughtful
air absent from the Sydney sausage.
The free discussion of the latest dis-
coveries of the mind that goes on in our
schools is the wonder of foreign education-
ists; but it would be impossible for even
the youngest intellect not to be infected
by the prevailing atmosphere of culture in
Melbourne. Our legislators are renowned
for their grave, eloquent and informing
speeches, and it has never yet been neces-
sary to amend an Act because it was lack-
ing in lucidity, logic or legal acumen. The
reason why our architecture is so daring and
original is because the architects assiduously
study the American magazines in order to
avoid the mistakes they so pitifully fall into.
And the great thing is that we never blow
about our superiority over Sydney.
Mr. Smith ought to come over here for
a month or so and see how we do it.
A VICTORLAN ARTIST.
A Satchel of Books
Mr. Kettle, Third Mate, by C. J. Cut-
cliff e Hyne (Ward Lock; Gs. 6d.). The
youthful Kettle introduces himself by shoot-
ing four policemen in Vera Cruz. He pro-
ceeds on similarly truculent lines to the end
of a somewhat far-fetched yarn, leaving a
trail of broken heads behind wherever he
adventures. Amongst other daring enter-
prises lie has a love affair with an empress,
and tries to put her on the Mexican throne.
Those who sympathise with the combative
little mariner’s methods will revel in it.
Gideon Aab wanted money. So he in-
sured liis young brother—a congenital idiot
—with , a Johannesburg company; and then
their mother, shot the boy and herself applied
for the insurance money. As he had con-
cealed liis brother’s affliction the company
was in a position to repudiate his claim.
Shortly before Fanny, his beloved wife, had
died. Fate could do no more to him. Such
is tlie grim" plot of Sarah G. Millin’s The
Sons of Mrs. Aab (Chatto and Windus;
7s. 6d.). The character of poor Fanny is
finely done and Gideon is a sympathetic
figure in his pitiful way. A powerful novel
that holds the attention in spite of its
unrelieved gloom.
The latest of the Bateman Booklets is The
Boy Who Breathed on the Glass in the
British Museum (Methuen ; Is.). The alter-
native .title is “A Criticism of Life”; and
that is just what the poignant little story
is. Great humor and great draftsmanship.
Bateman, by the way, is one of the many
Australian black-and-white artists _ who have
done well abroad. He was born in Bowral
(N.S.W.).
The Tangle, by Walter S. Masterman
(Jarrolds ; 7s. 6d.), opens with an argument
between Lady Bradley and her daughter.
Hilda won’t marry Guy because she doesn’t
love him.
“AVliat on earth does that matter ?’’ The expres-
sion was rather stronger than “what on earth.” Lady
Bradley was given to strong language.
Hilda hedged. “You said there were three reasons
why you wanted me to get married —you only gave
me one, that you couldn’t keep up your lies about
your age while I was around.”
You see the kind of mother Lady Bradley is
—one whom a nice girl’s friends could only
regard as a disability, not to say a menace.
The author marries her off to a contem-
porary, and, after some amusing and mildly
naughty adventures, Hilda discovers that she
loves Guy after all. Quite a good plot for
a bedroom farce. Some of the jokes are
old (as when a character offends a pompous
K.B.D. Judge by referring to his “Police
Court”), but they blend with the context.
And a Little Verse
DID I AS OTHER JADES.
Did I as other jades, learn what is sin
And what is virtue; building ’tween these
twain
A wall of China firm within my brain,
A certainty no doubt could batter in;
So never to depart from bleak and thin
Submission to the dull parental reign,
And in negation find all worthy gain,
My faith pinned to a future angels win ;
Then take a husband, circumspect not bold,
Honor, obey, and love when he loves me,
Or humbly hold apart should he wane cold,
Nurse his legitimate children on my knee;
Live without light or passion, in the shades,
Dead and content —did I as other jades.
N.S.W.
MUSETTE MORELL.
EYES OF MOONLIGHT.
Alas, that men have climbed, too far
To read the earliest things that are!
The wise old cat who walks with me
Through bi’acken-broidered sandy places
Beholds so much I cannot see,
Responds or swerves
With liner nerves;
And, in a certain, moorland cup
Of heath and tea-tree, he lifts up
A seeing face to unseen faces.
If I had eyes of moonlight, I
Might hail those sunny passers-by!
For charms of strangest holiness
Are here to daunt, and yet to bless.
This shallow fane of grassy floss,
Green-walled, with Heaven for its ceiling,
My wise old cat will never cross,
But sidles round
As if spellbound,
And watches, watches someone there
Move golden in the golden air,
Till suddenly he purrs, soft feeling
Round lifted neck and lion chin,
Caresses that he revels in.
How sad it is that men must be
Most proud of what they do not sec!
We have pored over print so much
Our sight is blurred for living pages,
Our hands responseless to the touch
A shiver brings
From brushing wings.
All day has sung a wistful bird :
“And yet you do not know a word.”
We ponder grey, grey lore of sages.
While gentle sighs in grass and tree
Mourn; “Yet you will not learn from me.”
Loving wild teachers, wlio’d bestow
Their gifts on us, what debts we owe!
When I am dead, I shall come soon
And swiftly back to taste the dearness
Of tea-tree fragrance under noon.
Then may there be
To welcome me
Some little beast of silky fur,
Of pointed ears and friendly purr.
Sleek back that arches at my nearness—
Clear eyes of moonlight.may I find
To greet me down among the blind.
VICTORIA.
ELSLE COLE.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. ■ £«*»
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
T.1.M.: Some good stuff in “Seeds,” but
the third stanza is all padding.... Halsey: Pretty
feeble... .Jean 1., Joyce S., Eric L.: Bumped out
in an exceptional rush of good verse. (Australia
has never produced so much of fair to good quality
as it is doing at present.)... .Hugh H.: 'Very lazy.
....Spindrift: “Joy” a neat rhyme of the often
said. .. .D.11.E.: No poet’s eye there ; only a rhymed
inventory.... Kim: Well enough done; but the thing
done is so much more important... .S.A.R.: Full of
gentle, obvious sentiment.... Bar Tom: Your ear is
hopeless... .OiF.W.: Hope it’s only so-long and not
good-bye, for some of them very nearly get there.
R.O.H.: An easy win for the basket; fight
didn’t last more than half a round... .Isham: Little
.wit and not much thought... .Elizabeth R.: Has
simplicity and directness, and we hope we shall
hear from you again... .E.M.G.: And you, too. .. .
Nance W.: “Riding Song” is best; just failed to
make the winning post. . . .D.L.M.: Very pleasant
rhyming. . . .Fudge: No, wouldn’t say that. But
your large truths are not. always well put....
Hugh G.: “Days that lay ahead” sounds too much
like leaying it to the good old auriferous goose.
... .11.5.8.: We dare say first-class stories have
been built on nothing more promising than a poisoned
pup and a coincidence; but you haven’t done it....
D. : Has atmosphere, but fails to grip....
F.S.G.: Lame on every leg. .. .H.G.T. : No, but close
up... .Wjadra :In the kindergarten class. .. .M.M.M.:
There’s merit in the phrasing; but the idea is a
featherweight.... Mary W.: It bung in the balance.
Sorry to see it go back....E. Els: A dreary effort.
H.T.B.: Vigorous; but not a new thought in
it.... LAV.: Idea as old as the lady’s profession.
... .Eva M.: More color than poetry. .. .Herbert D.,
Jean R.: Commonplace... .Pat O’K.: Can’t always
make sense of your crabbed writing. But your
rhymes are hopeless—“conquer”-“anchor,” “hiding-
“bidding,” “indifference”-“sufferance,” for example.
. ...S.J.C.: Beauty, but not enough strength....
E. : So you’ve found that roses have thorns!
Yes, alas! and they’re not all roses, either....
11.M.D.: Just a miss. . . .R.E.A.: Very naive. Read
and read, then try again. There’s promise in you.
.... Austral: What is it—a poem or a crossword
puzzle ?. ... John II.: Nothing in them to take hold
of A.R.W.: You don’t -give your authority for
the statement that the Britons had a gold coinage
before the Roman invasion. The Encyclopaedia
Britannica says that gold coins were first introduced
in England by Henry 111, in 1257.... J. 8.: Utterly
hopeless. Even the bad rhymes are excruciating
rather than amusing. .. .E.L.M.: Yours is a very
thin and reedy note... .C.W.H.: It’s an old trick
and you work up to the climax too stodgily
E.E.: Wooden as a butcher’s b10ck.... Babel: Nearer
babble. .. .L.J.8.: Poor minstrelsy, unredeemed by
the desperate attempt to rhyme “Christinas” with
“seven-and-sixpence”... .H.P.: Mournful in its
feebleness.... John II.: Not a verse with a swing
in it; not .1 line with a ring in it... .C.S.J.: Too
fragile a peg to bear the weight of half a dozen
stanzas V.J.A.: Might do for a parish magazine.
. ...E.J.C.: “The Bloke from Paddy’s Flat” failed
to get past the doorkeeper A.J.W.: A genuine
emotion, no doubt; but you haven’t made poetry
out of it... . A.M.K.: Sweet, but anaemic... .P.O’R.:
Not very striking D.P.K.: Agree with you. The
B. has never suggested that the Australian producer
should be compelled to accept world’s parity for his
goods while his costs are higher than world costs.
. ...F.R.H.: We’ve got a whole continent to cover,
and 30 lines is our limit. . . .A.Lr.: Try London. It
would thrill Cockney housemaids S.H.: A rehash
of “White Cargo”... .E.K.It.: Now, who would kid-
nap a cricket umpire?... .J.V.: No different from
a hundred other back-country feud yarns. .. .R.W.:
Arab sheiks not wanted here. .. . S.C.: No bids for
“A Soul for Sale”... .F.N.: Twice too long. . . .C.W.:
You could have ended the tale in many better ways.
. ...G.T.: A wallflower.... 8.W.: Trivial... .H.D.S.:
“Out of the Swim” it is T.T. : Dreary
L. : Dog-tired of the oldest inhabitant who re-
quires a gallon of beer before he can be; persuaded
to spin his dull yarn K.E.C.: Far-fetched
D.A.: Found Enid’s suitors an uninteresting 10t....
M. : First half excellent, second crude melodrama.
... .C.C.: Don’t make your next hero a stutterer. .. .
C. : Verbose. .. .C.N.L.: Just misses... .E.T.R.:
By no means hopeless G.G.M.: No berth for “The
Passenger”. .. .A.L.C.: Tosh. .. . J. 0.0.: Not bad, but
the idea has been used already... .M. 8.5.: Your
friend can’t be a close reader of Tins Bulletin or
he wouldn’t have giv£n you that advice C.E.S.:
Flimsy plot. . .A.C.W.: Trivial incident. . .A.A.A.C.:
Too slight G.D.S.: Humor forced E.M.:
“Speed” sped basketwards F.McL.: You enclose
“a bit of doggerel which might have some merit.”
It hasn’t a glimmer; you can’t even rhyme....
Ming: lambics, are they? You can write in heiide-
casyllabics if only you have something to say... .
G.E.S.: It has some swing; if it were briefer and less
hackneyed it would have had a chance... .1.F.:
Your “Pre-Histories” suggest mild hysterics
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P. 8.: Decoration overdone, and it’s no joke....
M.S.: Looks like a morning-after effort C.G.T.:
Jagged linework and leaden humor... .T.R.: They
give the impression of being in invisible strait-jackets.
.. .. .H.P.M.: They look a bit like abos. but don’t
talk like them. ... J.M.: Drawing of ring on Jean’s
finger is passable... .K.A.: It made w.p.b. heavier
for the office boy E.F.: Perspective wrong....
WAV-: It cost us 4d. to look at the flapper with
cauliflower ears S.W.: Your thousand and first
might interest us. ...T.L. : It wasn’t worth the
candle... .1.W.: Sketches tolerable, wheezes juvenile.
H.B.J.: Be content with tackling simple studies
until you acquire more skill with brush.... G.W.:
Not in the market for head studies of film girls,
as you should know W.C.H.: Two propped-up
corpses on a sofa, and a pointless gag A.M.:
Always prepared to consider suggestions for political
cartoons 8.F.: Patchy F.S.P.: Ypur clubmen
are scarecrows S.J.: Only lessons will help....
0.P.: Wooden. .. .F.8.E.: You’re not cut out for an
art career.... J. J. V.: Scratchy and unbalanced....
K.M.: Not worth the struggle our process-engravers
would have to make a decent job of it... .R.A.L.M.:
You must have just poured it on the paper. ...
A.M.P.: It used to be the most popular of Scotch
jokes. .. .D.L.8.: Firmer line needed. .. .J.G.: It’s
not like Don. . . .L.G.D.: Shows promis.e, but they
need polish. ...R.R.: Why not send it to the paper
which fathered that type of jest. ... J.S,: Badly done.


ê
w
X*
r
*s
m
4
'*yj
m
m
m
m
ft
fl
v
£
m
->' s
i
is
I
fi'I
I
I
i
■
1
I' 1
■
m »
H
v:
m
m
wm&ar * ■
IttHpftii
■Bill
m
m
ym
wm
M
«b
'■: B
:-V
■
H
;
1 '-I
ill
Hi
-
18
:
V
m
I Hi!
« H |
V\
VfAlTE^
]»!«&•


The Bulletin
Vol. 53. —No. 2715.
February 24, 1932.
HAUNTED.
“Like one who on a lonesome road
Doth walk in (ear and dread,
And having once turned round walks on,
And turns no more his head;
Because he knows a (rightful fiend
Doth close behind him tread.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 11, Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 1,5.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for l,oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
HOW WOULD A SOVIET SUIT?
A great deal of nonsense has been talked
on both sides about communism. It has
been linked up with irreligion and the
destruction of the marriage tie. But there
is no reason why a communist State should
not be as religious and as strict in its family
relations as a capitalist State. Russia is the
best-known brand of it; but it need not be
the only brand. One thing only, whatever
its brand, the communist State must have
and do: it must substitute socialisation for
private ownership, and control of industry
by the workers collectively for private and
individual control. Sovietism is the basis of
the system.
We don’t know much about sovietism,
but we think we know a great deal about
capitalism. We say that capitalism has
broken down, and we point to the vast
numbers of unemployed in almost every
country in the world in proof. But is that,
proof? Here is a city with the best public
health system in the world; yet it cannot
shut out an epidemic of pneumonic ’flu.
Here is a man who has built a home which
is the most substantial thing in homes that
can be devised; yet an earthquake will
overthrow it. We do not say that public-
health systems should be swept away be-
cause of one failure, or that substantial
homes are a mistake because an earthquake
destroyed many. Still less surely does the
failure of the world to recover instantly
from the greatest war in its history prove
that the social system under which it lives
should be rooted out.
Capitalism, as the world knows it, is little
more than a hundred years old. Before
that, in Britain, there had been a mixture
of landlordism and communism; with the
introduction of industrialism the whole
aspect changed, and as good a date
as any to fix for the birth of the new social
order is 1830, when Stephenson put the
“Rocket” upon the rails. Capitalism then
took over things as it found them, and pro-
ceeded to develop in its own way. There
is no better test of the social condition of
the people than the growth of population.
In the hundreds of years before the birth
of capitalism the United Kingdom had
achieved a total of 12 millions; under capi-
talism more than double that number had
been added in 90 years.
It is too easy to forget what the condi-
tions were under which our grandfathers
lived far into last century. Net until 1842
were women and girls prohibited from work-
ing underground in mines. Less than a
hundred years ago in Bristol, long the
second city in England, “nearly half the,
population belonged to families living in
one room.” More than half the children
died before they were six. The conditions
under which our grandfathers lived were
appalling. Sanitary conveniences were un-
known in most British working-class homes
80 years ago.
It is true that with the changes which
capitalism brought to the great body of
workers it brought also wealth to a few;
and this is the basis of the indictment
against it. But we cannot condemn a sys-
tem because it produces inequalities. All
systems produce inequalities. What we
have to ask is: What is the world getting
in return?
Now the very fact that the sight of
luxury rouses certain men to anger suggests
that the means to enjoy luxury are worth
having, and, if they are worth having,
certain men will struggle to get them. Two
working men owned a little mine near
Singleton in N. S. Wales; and they knew
that their coal made good coke. They
wanted money, and tried to sell their coke,
but could not get a market; so they
leased a copper-mine where they could use
it themselves. That was the beginning of
the Great Cobar; that was the beginning
of the great coke industry in Australia; and
without that we should not have had the
great iron and steel industry. Three friends
in Hobart thought they could make jam
and sell it. They bought a few pots, and
put their product on the market. Out of
that grew the great Henry Jones Co-opera-
tive, with factories in three continents; out
of that, too, came Australia’s association
with the tin industry in the Malay Penin-
sula. Henry Jones and Palfreyman and
Ashbolt became moderately rich men; but
in getting rich they made good jobs for
thousands and thousands of men. And not
only made good jobs for thousands; they
made the world richer for all.
Of course, it should not make any differ-,
ence to the sower whether he or some other
man reaps; it ought to be sufficient for him
to know that some body will have the har-
vest. But as a matter of fact we know
it does make all the difference in the world;
and that is just the rock on which every
past communistic experiment has crashed.
N obocly knows it better than the exceed-
ingly clever men who are controlling the
Russian experiment. They have been
accused of veiled slavery. But what could
they do? Millions of the men with whom
they had to deal thought that communism
was a system under which nobody had to
do much work. The leaders knew better.
Almost every great conference in Russia—
and there are very many—has this one
object: to speed up production. At the
latest All-Soviet Congress at Leningrad,
Labor Commissar Kraval put the matter
to the delegates. “Some comrades,” he
said, “appear to misunderstand their mis-
sion. This conference must devise means
of improving conditions without increasing
the financial burdens of the State. Demands
for a general increase in the rates of wages
are fruitless, for wages and the productivity
of labor must rise together.” In the com-
munist State there is no alternative. In
the capitalist State there are reserves of
private capital to be drawn upon; in the
communist State there are none. A poor
output or a poor market in Australia under
our present system means drawing upon
the capital of the capitalist employer: only
thus, of course, are losses possible, just as
only by drawing upon the capital of the
capitalist banks are our railway and other
State deficits possible. In Russia there
are no capitalist institutions to draw upon.
Therefore, as Commissar Kraval said, “de-
mands for a general increase in the rates
of wages are fruitless, for wages and the
productivity of labor must rise together.”
And the Congress recognised it—recog-
nised that the moment you abolish capital-
ism you abolish a bridge which has carried
the State over its hard times. It there-
fore decided to “enforce piecework every-
where, and to enable workers to earn more
by dismissing part of the factory workers
and inducing the remainder to maintam
unabated the total output.” The Commis-
sar added that “many still harbored un-
healthy views about the advantage of a
system of equal payment for workers em-
ployed on similar jobs; but they must be
taught that wages depended on the amount
of work performed individually. They
would then work harder, earn more indi-
vidually, increase output and decrease
costs.”
We can forget, if we like, all that we
have ever heard about slavery and brutality
in Russia; we can dismiss, if we please, all
that we have ever read about the suppres-
sion of religion and the decay' of family
life. Allowing that there is not a word
of truth in all those stories, still would it
be worth while? On the one hand we have
the proofs of what capitalism has done for
the world. We have seen how the struggle
of the individual has built up great busi-
nesses and opened up great industries. We
see even now how capitalism builds up
reserves to be drawn upon in order to
tide the people over disaster—in the past
15 months Mr. Lang has drawn upon
the capitalist banks for no less than
£18,000,000 to pay wages and doles. And
we have seen how in the communist State,
with no capitalist reserves to draw upon,
the problem is how “to improve conditions
without increasing the financial burdens of
the State”; and in the last resort that it can
only be done by “working harder, earning
more, increasing output and decreasing
costs.”
In return for that you lose your demo-
cratic government and your own little nest-
egg in the savings bank or elsewhere; and
you chance the very worst sort of despot-
ism. It seems hardly worth while.
SOME SUGGESTIONS TO MR. LYONS.
Until Mr. Lyons does something really
definite towards reducing the colossal and
largely unnecessary cost of Commonwealth
services, his sincerity of purpose must re-
main in doubt. Politically, of course, such
action would inevitably bring upon him the
enmity of the powerful Public Service
voting machine. Also it would expose him
to the mendacious accusation of creating
more unemployment. Nevertheless, it is
one of the most important of the jobs which
he was appointed to perform. Some pre-
tence has been made of “investigating” the
services for overlapping and redundancy,
but no real beginning will ever be made in
the matter so long as the “investigations”
are made by politicians or by Government-
paid officers of any grade, from Judges
downward. A resolute, clear-sighted, fear-
less man of the type of Robert Gibson
would do the job in a few months, and
relieve Australia of many millions of her
present useless expenditure.
There is, however, nothing to prevent Mr.
Lyons from making a useful beginning by
prohibiting any new appointment, tempo-
rary or permanent, to the Public Service
for the next three years and cutting out
temporary officers, other than telegraph
messengers. These are matters entirely
within his present powers, and would effect
a saving of many thousands annually. He
might well follow this up by introducing
a bill in the first session of the new Parlia-
ment to give the Public Service separate
representation, thereby removing the
present anomaly whereby the public ser-
vants rule their master, the public.
Such a bill should also provide for a
genuine overhaul of all Commonwealth
services by an independent, non-political
and non-service investigator, and for the
publication in full of his report simultane-
ously with its presentation to Parliament.
Pending the appointment of a suitable in-
vestigator, power should be taken to retire
at least 5000 classified officers of all grades,
on a compassionate allowance of £2 per
week for the unmarried and £3 10s. per
week for the married, this allowance to con-
tinue until three years have elapsed, or
until the retired officer gets another job, or
otherwise ceases to be eligible, whichever
occurs first- Officers in receipt of compas-
sionate allowance should be liable to give
their services to the amount of the allow-
ance at the classified rate of pay for the
service required, and should, in common
with those who remain on full pay, be de-
barred from taking part in any political
activities or any criticism or comment on
Government policy or action. Transgressors
in these respects should lose all right to
further allowance. Child endowment and
special allowances of all kinds (including
“Canberra allowance”) should cease. Super-
annuation deductions should be repaid to
officers retired under the scheme, with
interest at Savings Bank rates to date of
retirement.
This would enable Mr. Lyons to save the
taxpayer £1,000,000 per annum as a begin-
ning, and eventually several millions, with
the additional advantages of placing the
public servant in his proper position of
servant instead of master, and of not
adding to the unemployed. Continuing
with the good work, he could abolish
all such political perks as Standing Com-
mittees of Public Works, and of Public
Accounts. With these should go all expen-
sive political jaunts abroad to Geneva or
elsewhere. All necessary representation
oversea would be amply remunerated by
payment of steamer fares and hotel ex-
penses.
These are small amounts, but every little
saved will help the Australian taxpayer.
Mr. Lyons could next do something
really substantial by cutting £400,000 off
the utterly wasted Maternity Allowance
vote, and utilising the remaining quarter of
a million to provide a really effective
system of maternal hygiene in all the princi-
pal centres of population, with a bush-
nursing branch in conjunction with the
States for the out-back areas. This might
well be accompanied by a drastic and
thorough revision by a non-political and
non-service investigator of the whole sys-
tem under which nearly £12,000,000 yearly
of the taxpayer’s money is distributed in
Old-age and Invalid Pensions, with an addi-
tional £90,000 in the doing of it. It is a
matter of common knowledge that much
of this vast sum is entirely undeserved by
the recipients, and is merely a vote-catch-
ing bribe on a gigantic scale. At least
£5,000,000 annually should be saved on this
account. Should Mr. Lyons feel nervous
about the volume of voting power liable to
be affected, he might bring in a measure to
give all pensioners separate representation
by a member of their own, similarly to the
Public Service. The analogy is a perfectly
sound and reasonable one.
The Repatriation Commission costs over
£1,000,000 yearly. Actually disabled men
surviving from the war should, of course,
continue to receive the reasonable benefits
which a still-grateful country can afford,
but such items as nine commissioners and
deputy commissioners at £B6OO yearly, 338
clerks at £123,000 and 116 typists at £23,500
should provide a field for substantial savings
in the interests of a semi-bankrupt country.
Also, the question must be considered of
whether a country in such a pass as we are
can still continue to pay nearly £1,000,000
yearly to Repatriation account. There
certainly are hard cases who still deserve
help as the direct result of the war, but
every observant Australian knows that there
are lots of harder cases—in the soldier’s
own sense of the words—who should not be
receiving the taxpayer’s money to-day,
whatever they did between 1914 and 1918
Mr. Lyons could probably save at least
another £500,000 a year in these directions,
and provide a better service for the men
who have really deserved it, and their
genuinely necessitous dependants.
NOW, MR. PIDDINGTON!
On November 22, 1920, in a memorandum
on the findings of the Basic Wage Commis-
sion, of which he was chairman, Mr. A. B.
Piddington, K.C., said: “Industries now
pay for 450,000 non-existent wives and
2,100,000 non-existent children.” It was
desirable, he added, that every employee
should receive enough to keep a man and
wife, because a man should be able to marry
and support a wife at an early age. The
figures as to 450,000 non-existent wives
might, therefore, “be disregarded”— at least
by those who were not obliged to pay the
wages based on the supposition that the
ladies were solid flesh. But the children
were another matter. “From the produced
wealth of the country, its children”—real,
not dream-children—“have less than enough
in order that the unmarried childless may
have more than enough.”
A sad state of affairs (if it were true),
but it could be remedied. Indeed, Mr. Pid-
dington had the remedy in his pocket. “The
desired result,” he wrote, “can be secured
by a basic wage of £4 per week paid by
the employer to the employee, and the pay-
ment of an endowment for all dependent
children... .at the rate of 12s. per week.”
Let employers pay “£4 to each employee,
and a tax of £27 18s. per year (10s. 9d. per
week per employee) the Commonwealth
could then pay to the mothers 12s. a week
for each child.” Mr. Piddington took it for
granted that wage-payers would cheerfully
put up the “£27 18s. per year per employee,”
and not save money by dispensing with
hands; also that “our primary and other
industries” could stand it. The Pidding-
tons of this world take a lot of things for
granted. But he insisted that bachelors and
childless married men on the basic wage
should be limited to £4 a week. “This
would mean to most basic-wage-earners a
rise of about 2s. a week,” he wrote.
In November, 1920, H.C.L. was at the
peak. Dealing with variations in the cost
of food, groceries, rent, clothing, fuel, light,
household utensils, etc., in the six capital
cities since November, 1914, the Common-
wealth Statistician reports in the 1931 Year-
Book that “the increase was greatest in
November, 1920.” Comparing Sydney whole-
sale prices of 100 items since 1911, and taking
1000 as the index number for that year,
the N. S. Wales Statistician gives the index
numbers for subsequent years as 2503 in
1920, 1840 in 1927, 1863 in 1929 and 1553
in 1931. In 1927 Mr. Piddington, who had
become N.S.W. Industrial Commissioner,
fixed the basic wage for man and wife at
£4 ss. a week. This was ss. a week more
than he had recommended in the dearer
year 1920, and a child-endowment scheme
was added at the employer’s expense; but
it was not 12s. per week per child, though
apparently Mr. Piddington strove to get
this adopted—it was ss. per week where,
without such an allowance, a family man’s
pay would fall below the basic wage. Mr.
Lang was in office then, and he was with
difficulty restrained from making the levy
on employers £6 ss. in the £lOO of wages
and salaries paid, instead of the £3 in the
£lOO at which it was fixed. The Bavin-
shaws were in office in December, 1929,
when, at the instance of Messrs. Street
and Cantor, who had joined Mr. Pidding-
ton on the Industrial Commission and out-
voted him, the basic wage was made
£4 2s. 6d. for man, wife and one child,
endowment to be ss. a week for each child
after the first. The levy on employers was
altered to £1 in the £lOO.
The slump arrived. Mr. Bavin went out
and Mr. Lang came in. The number of
unemployed, as estimated by the Director
of Labor Exchanges, rose from 30,000 in
November, 1929, to 90,000 in November,
1930, and to 110,000 in November, 1931.
“Unions supplying reports” returned 13.8
per cent, of their members as idle in
December, 1929. 26.3 per cent, in December,
1930, and 31.5 per cent, in December, 1931.
Because of “the decline in the national
income and the general depressed state of
industry” Federal award rates were reduced
10 per cent, as from February 1, 1931. At
the beginning of the present month the
“Harvester” wage (in effect the Federal
basic wage) stood at £3 10s. 6d. a week in
Melbourne, £3 ss. in Brisbane, £3 4s. 6d. in
Adelaide, £3 7s. 6d. in Perth and £3 12s.
in Hobart; and the Harvester wage is for a
family unit of five. But the N.S.W. basic
wage remains at £4 2s. 6d. for a family unit
of three, with child endowment aclded.
Why? Because the Lang Government has
deliberately refused to let the wage-payers
apply for a reduction. It transferred Mr.
Street to the Supreme Court Bench so that
the Industrial Commission, lacking the
statutory number of members, would be
incapable of functioning. Moreover, the
levy on employers has been increased to
£2 in the £lOO, and with barefaced injustice
it has been imposed on employers working
under Federal awards who, as already men-
tioned, pay wages based on the legal fiction
that the recipient has a wife and three
children. The pretence is still made that it
is not a tax, but when added, as it is, to
an inflated wage, kept inflated by low
political trickery, it becomes a palpable
tax, nor is there a stupider or more dis-
honest tax on record. And because of the
inflated wage and the infamous tax, thou-
sands of decent fellows are on the dole.
What is Mr. Piddington going to do
about it? He has been silent so far, but
surely he is not going to let an unspeakable
Government pollute the system of wage
regulation and family endowment with
which his name is identified without some
protest. As manipulated by this Govern-
ment, the system has become a stench in
the nostrils. The same Government pro-
poses in the Soviet measure it calls its
Conciliation and Arbitration Bill to estab-
lish Mr. Piddington as an industrial dic-
tator. He is to have power “to determine
almost anything at all to be an industrial
matter; to inquire into private businesses,
methods of management and finance; to
fix prices and even prohibit manufacture”;
and against his rulings there is to be no
appeal. Nevertheless, people will be slow
to believe that this has rendered him indif-
ferent to wage regulation and family en-
dowment being dragged through the mud
of a coarse political swindle—that ambition
has stifled the speech of the man who
refused appointment to the High Court
Bench because some of his fellow-barristers
objected. They might believe it of some
cheap Tammany lawyer, but not of this man,


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lang Meets His Master.
The Lyons-Latham Government has taken
up the challenge flung at it by the leadei
of the Tin-hare Government when he de-
faulted again, at 24 hours’ notice, and is
summoning certain long-disused Common-
wealth powers to its aid. It has paid the
interest due by the defaulting Government,
and has brought in a bill designed to make
default a profitless swindle. One clause
permits the Commonwealth to withhold
loan money borrowed on behalf of a Gov-
ernment which bilks its creditors; another
authorises the attachment of funds held
for the bilking Government by a bank or
banks; a third obliges taxpayers owing
money to a Government which has Lang-
planned its creditors to pay it to the Com-
monwealth,. whose receipt (but not the
State’s) will be a clean discharge. Breach
of this provision involves penalties, especi-
ally in the case of “a State Minister,
officer or employee” who may “attempt to
secure payment to the State.” Such offend-
ers are liable to a fine of £lOO or six
months’ imprisonment, or both, if they elect
to be dealt with summarily; if tried on
indictment they may be fined £5OO and
imprisoned for two years as well.
All this is excellent, and excellent also
is a paragraph in the Governor-General’s
speech to the effect that “a measure will
be introduced to provide that companies
and others carrying on the business of in-
surance shall make deposits with the Com-
monwealth.” This is intended to prevent
the extortion, threatened in a bill, of
several millions from the life, fire and
marine insurance cos. by the Government
which guaranteed the funds of depositors in
the Savings Bank it smashed, and whose
guarantee, as was proved, wasn’t worth a
row of pins. Presumably a legislative veto
on the Lang law providing for the stamp-
ing of goods from other States entering
N. S. Wales will also be introduced, and
if its benefits can be extended to the Sydney
grocers who, in a spirit of ape-like malig-
nity, have been punished for supplying
goods from other States to persons on the
dole, so much the better.
Very probably Lyons-Latham will have
to go further. A rabbit-brained Labor
conference has ordered the head of the Tin-
hare Government to bring in “a capital
levy, or steeply graduated super-tax on
income,” so that, among other things, “the
working week may be reduced to 35 hours
and existing rates of pay increased 25 per
cent.” Lang said to one of these confer-
ences: “Tell me what you want and I’ll
do it”; and that is always his attitude at
such gatherings even when he doesn’t put
it into words. Still, he never requires any
urging to bail up the taxpayers and rob
them under legal forms, and he will wreck
Lyons-Latham’s plans if he can. It may be
necessary to prevent his levying income tax
at all. This could be done by making full
use of the power contained in section 109
and by enlisting the co-operation of the
five State Governments which have not
defaulted. Those Governments would
surely agree to the Commonwealth impos-
ing one income tax for Australia rather than
let Lang do what he likes with the taxable
income of the State with two-fifths of the
population, and so involve them in general
default and bankruptcy. Lyons-Latham will
have to be prepared for this eventuality,
and no doubt it will be. After many years
Commonwealth power has passed from
weak hands to strong. Here at last is a
Government which really means to govern.
4-J
These Capitalists!
We have lately heard much about “the
capitalist class,” and it looks as if we shall
hear a great deal more. But we still lack
a definition. What is a capitalist? In the
country of the blind the one-eyed man
is. king. Among millionaires the man with
a thousand is hardly worth considering.
Among men with a thousand the man with
a hundred is no capitalist at all. The
hawker with the pony cart is a potentate
among the push-barrows.; and the musician
with the accordion bespeaks your pity for
his poor brother down the street who is
appealing for your ha’pence with a tin-
whistle. Capitalists every one of them,
from the man who owns a million to the
man who owns a tin-whistle; and where
do you draw the line between the capitalist
goats and the proletarian sheep?
It is much more difficult perhaps in Aus-
tralia than in some other places. Here are
the savings banks, for example: 5,105,045
accounts open at the end of 1930, with
deposits totalling £217,510,517. There were
at that time 793 deposit accounts for every
1000 of the population—remarkable figures
even after allowance is made for the fact
that in some States it is still possible for
the same person to have a deposit with a
State Savings Bank and the Common-
wealth Bank. The average deposit at that
time was £42 12s. 2d.—not a great amount,
no doubt; but we lately saw what £42
12s. 2d. is to a great many people. They
are capitalists as surely as the man who
owns a thousand.
And there are more than the savings
banks. There are building societies with
60,000 members (these figures are no later
than Dec., 1929), and 121,000 investing
members of producer co-operative societies,
and 146,000 investing members of consumer
co-operative societies; and what capital
they represent can be judged by the fact
that in the last 12 months covered by the
returns these capitalist concerns, with
327,000 members, divided something over a
quarter of a million of profits.
Yet that is still only the beginning of the
capitalistic operations of the people of
Australia. At the end of 1929 there were
908,807 ordinary and 1,040,989 industrial
life-insurance policies in force in Australia;
on the former £9,513,249 of premiums was
paid in the year, and on the industrial
policies, held almost entirely by working
men and women, the, premiums amounted to
£4,170,989 —money put by in a single year
against sickness or old age, or to give a child
a start in life. So much money have
these industrial policy-holders put by that
in 1929 they earned £1,105,141 by way of
interest and dividends, to be added to
their savings. In the aggregate these policy-
holders, ordinary and industrial, have assets
in Australia of the value of £134.598.978 —
they, too, figures to the end of 1929.
Nor do the capital accumulations of the
Australian people stop at that. There were
at the same date 608,834 members of
friendly societies, and these societies had
a total revenue of £3.166,909; their total
funds were then £13,505,865, and the interest
earned by them for the year was £744,060.
When the gentleman from Russia or his
dupe or tool in Australia asks us to “abolish
capitalism,” he pictures the capitalist as a
paunchy person riding in an opulent motor-
car smoking an equally opulent cigar. The
gentleman who does that sort of thing in
Australia is much more likely to be an
impecunious person who is out to make
his credit good. The real capitalists of this
country—the persons whom the gentleman
from Russia proposes to expropriate (that
is, rob) —are the thrifty people who have
£217,510,517 in the savings banks, £134.598,978
in insurance policies, £13,505,865 in friendly
societies and an unknown amount in build-
ing and co-operative societies; and the same
people have millions besides in homes, in
bonds and in shares.
— ♦
Federal Government and Governor.
After all, the Lang Government’s great
offence is not that it has defaulted, or lied,
or shuffled, or twisted, but that it has done
all these things in the name of the people
of N. S. Wales. Constitutional authorities
are agreed that the Governor has the right
to send his Ministers to the people to get
approval of any course of action; they are
agreed further that in cei'tain circumstances
it may be his duty to so send them. All
that they stipulate is that he shall have
good grounds for intervention. Default
may not be regarded as a good ground. If
the Governor believes that the people of
N. S. Wales approve of default, it probably
is not a good ground. If, on the other
hand, he has grave doubts whether they do
approve of it, default certainly is a good
ground. The problem, therefore, is how to
satisfy his Excellency that these grave
doubts exist.
The Federal Government is most deeply
concerned in this matter. The State Gov-
ernment’s policy, it declares, is imperilling
the Commonwealth, is threatening it with
disaster. Does the Federal Government
believe that Mr. Lang has the people of
N. S. Wales behind him? If it doesn’t,
in view of the general election figures, why
should it not say so? It is the nation’s
Government, and if the nation is imperilled
—even if its recovery is being, in its
opinion, retarded—then it surely is under, an
obligation to strengthen the Governor’s
hand; and it can do that in the most direct
manner by inviting Parliament to pass such
resolutions as have been previously sug-
gested for transmission to the Secretary
for the Dominions, from whom his Excel-
lency derives his authority. As a Govern-
ment it would not hesitate, in the event
of an election, to advise the people of the
State against default; why, then, should it
hesitate to take such steps as are within
its power to procure an election? It might
conceivably be an abuse of Federal power
to impose the payment of just debts upon a
State which wants to default; it cannot be
such an abuse to assist in imposing a
general election upon a State in order to
ascertain whether it wants to default, to
the detriment of the Commonwealth.
4
The One-eyed Freetrader.
Dr. Page seems to have quite forgotten that
the Australian Country party, which he is
supposed to lead, stands for a New-State
movement. The prospect of new industrial
cities, each a State capital in the making—
for no other sort of place ever becomes an
important industrial centre in Australia—
has passed out of view. As recently defined,
the policy nowadays is as follows:
Our aim is definitely in the direction of assisting
the exporting industries and creating new ones,
thereby diversifying our exports, increasing their
value, and doubling our trade and our employment.
These figures demonstrate which pays best—
encouraging or discouraging the industries with
export possibilities. The Country party policy is
to aim at increasing exports, expanding production
and absorbing the workers by transferring them from
non-essential to essential industries of Australia.
In other words, Dr. Page wants his party to
destroy Australia’s non-essential industries.
But there aren’t: any non-essential indus-
tries. Industries which will save paying for
imports are quite as essential as those which
will increase exports, and are much easier
to find.
Having his one idea in an aggravated
form, the Freetrade person’s permanent cry
is that Customs duties, which bring in
revenue, should be reduced or abolished.
He might concentrate to more advantage
on income taxes, land taxes, unemployment
taxes, and a whole lot of sundries. There is
only one Customs tariff in the Common-
wealth; but there is an Excise tariff, which
is about as bad, and which is hardly ever men-
tioned, because it falls on the local manu-
facturer. Also, there are seven income taxes,
and they come to about twice as much as
the Customs. Likewise, there are seven
sets of probate and succession duties, all
pursuing the dead around the cemetery.
There are, furthermore, six land taxes, all
gnawing at the natural wealth of the
country, in addition to six sets of local land
taxation which also gnaw, and there is a
Federal land tax which is said to be for
the breaking up of over-large estates, but is
now mostly exacted on city properties which
have a money value but are too small to be
cut up. Among all these mixed and
muddled exactions the Freetrader is only
worried about the Customs tariff, which, he
fears, may lead to the establishment of
non-essential industries! It really doesn’t
matter whether it does or not. If it leads
to anything that may relieve the pressure
of the seven income taxes, and the seven
sets of death duties, and the seven sets of
land taxes, with the seven sets of local land
rates in addition, something will be gained.
The Federal taxation in Australia was,
last year, £7 15s. 2d. per inhabitant. That of
N. S. Wales, to which both Lang and Page
belong, was £6 13s. 2d. per inhabitant.
Loans and deficits raised the total in N.S.W.
to somewhere in the neighborhood of £l7
per inhabitant. Of this Customs amounted
to about £2 10s. per inhabitant, though it
might be £250 per inhabitant judging by
the way the Freetrader excites himseif
about it.
♦
The Japanese In China.
“Feng-Shui” on the invasion:—
If Japan engages on a major campaign in the
Shanghai district she has all her troubles before
her. I have walked, ponied and wheelbarrowed over
much of the area, and a more forbidding field for
military operations could not be imagined. It is
a vast alluvial flat laid down by the immense delta
of the Yang-tse. There is no eminence higher than
a grave mound within 40 miles of Shanghai except
a solitary rock crowned by a pagoda at Quinsan,
where Chinese Gordon fought the decisive battle
against the Taiping rebels. There are no roads
except barrow tracks and the country is a network
of canals and tiny watercourses. Gordon solved the
problem of transport by bringing in a fleet of steam
launches, from which he mowed down the enemy,
steaming to and fro along their ranks as they
passed in single file along the narrow dykes between
the mud swamps. The Japanese will find difficulty
in following his tactics, since the Chinese can use
aeroplanes and other resources the Taipings had no
knowledge of. An immense traffic traverses the
innumerable waterways, yet an American millionaire
who once brought a motor-car to Shanghai with the
intention of touring the Republic found that he
could travel only five miles out of the metropolis.
The Japanese action is a challenge to the
nations. “You cannot,” it says in effect,
“stop a single strong power from using its
forces as it sees fit.” It may be that the
challenge must be left unanswered to-day;
we must not rest until it can be answered.
♦
Public Ownership and Self-sacrifice.
For 40 years we Australians have been
throwing out our chests and telling our-
selves that we lead the world in the matter
of the public ownership of railways and
other public utilities; and the solemn truth
about it all is that we do not really own a
single thing. Ownership practically always
means self-sacrifice; somebody goes . with-
out something to get something, or he
makes an extraordinary effort, and that
generally means going without something
too. It isn’t always the one who gets the
reward who makes the effort and the sacri-
fice; but it has to be made by some one.
We, however, thought to get these railways
and other public utilities by the simple
process of borrowing to buy them. Now,
that was a possible way of acquiring things
in a hurry; millions of families have bought
their homes and their furniture and their
motor-cars on this instalment plan. But
public finance was for some extraordinary
reason believed to be quite different from
private finance; and while people knew
that they couldn’t personally own a thing
without paying for it, we went on skiting
about our wonderful State-owned railway
and tramway and lighting and water sys-
tems without making the smallest attempt
to pay off so much as a penny of the
money we had borrowed to buy them with.
In America they either had better luck
or saw farther than we did. Weighing the
alternatives, they decided for private
ownership; and presently they found them-
selves paying, in some cases, 10 p.c. by way
of dividend. We, deciding for public
ownership, paid from 34 p.c. to 5 p.c. on
our borrowed money, and smiled com-
placently. Then the bottom dropped out of
the world’s business, and nearly half of the
great railway cos. of America left off paying
any dividend at all; the latest return shows
that the aggregate dividend is only 39 p.c.
of what it in 1930. We, on the
other hand, are paying actually more inter-
est than we did in 1930; and with the
depreciation of our security the tendency
will be still further upward. Thus America
is helped in its struggle back to prosperity,
while Australia is impeded.
Seeing this there is a section in Australia
which says, “Very well; then we will not
pay any interest.” Some of them don t
trouble to justify themselves; they merely
insist that their first duty is to themselves,
and they are not going short for anybody.
There is only one name for those people,
of course. Others, however, of a less
criminal type, argue that, since it is ad-
mitted that American railway-owners are
getting only 39 p.c. of what they had in
1930, therefore it is unreasonable for the
people who provided the capital for Aus-
tralian railways to expect more. But the
basis on which money is provided has
always to be taken into account. The
man who accepts large risks is justified in
requiring high returns; the man who accepts
a low rate does it in return for being
guaranteed as far as possible against risks.
We got money from our bondholders at a
fixed low rate. No matter how things might
prosper with us, our creditors could never
expect more than the agreed-upon figure.
The American railway stockholder might
get his 10 p.c. dividend; the Australian
bondholder never could. In the days when
he might have found good investments at
6 p.c. or 7 p.c., he had still to take his 44
or s—in5 —in some cases, indeed, p.c. For
us to go to those people now and tell
them that they must suffer the same as
American railway stockowners would be
simply dishonest.
If public ownership depends upon public
rascality—if it cannot make good except by
dishonest default—then all the bright visions
about it must go by the board. But The
Bulletin refuses to believe such a thing.
What is pretty certain, though, is that it
is not so wonderful a plan as a great many
people thought it was; and though it may
succeed it can do so only as the result of
great self-sacrifice on the part of those
who are devoted to it. Thus far this self-
sacrifice has been entirely wanting: State
ownership has indeed failed so terribly
because it has been adopted expressly to
avoid any self-sacrifice whatever.
Who Ruined the Railways?
A conference of Australian Railway Com-
missioners has had before it the fact that in
the 16 years or so since 1914 the accumu-
lated deficits of the services they administer
have amounted to £68,006,000. They are
expected to recommend that something
should be done about it, and doubtless they
will, but it is unlikely that they will point
out the obvious moral and condemn the
whole of Ministerial control of rail-
way policy as utterly bad and rotten. Yet
that is the obvious conclusion.
In the period 1915-30 Australia, notwith-
standing the fact that it had participated in
the Great War and incurred enormous debts
in the process, expanded its railway system
(on borrowed money, of course) in an
absolutely reckless manner. Despite the
fact that loan money was dear, that con-
struction costs were rapidly rising and that
the existing lines were unable to earn
enough to pay interest on their cost, the
mileage of the system was increased 33.9
p.c., involving an addition to capital cost
of 73.1 p.c. Annual revenue, at the end of
the period, showed an increase of 117 p.c.,
but working expenses were up 146 p.c., and
interest charges 137 p.c., and this after a
period of attempted economies (1926-30),
during which the staff was reduced by 12.5
p.c. During the whole of the period 1914-30
the railways, as a whole, failed to pay their
way in any one year.
Manifestly the policy of continued heavy
expenditure on new lines was bad business,
especially as it was accompanied by an
extravagant campaign of motor-road making.
The proofs that the whole transport policy
was unsound were published year after year
in the railway financial returns, but the
fundamental errors that made those
look so dismal were continued. Now we
have reached, in N. S. Wales, the farcical
position that policemen are employed to
keep people from using the roads which
were built at such .huge cost, so that
the railways may get more traffic.
Ministerial control of railway policy has
proved ruinous, and, for the protection of
democracy, it is time it was ended. It is
possible that a system of control by per-
manent officials whose principal job it
would be to see that the service was got on
its feet financially, and kept there, might err
on the side of prohibiting legitimate expan-
sion, but the risk, so far as Australia is con-
cerned, is remote. We have a far larger rail
mileage than we can profitably or usefully
employ, and developments in other means
of transport have been so marked in recent
years that a complete stoppage of railway
expansion probably wouldn’t leave any gap
that couldn’t easily be filled.
*
From O. Schreiber, gen. sec. Furnishing
Trade Union, Sydney:—
Mr. Fearn has now had his final word; these
few will be mine. We have never asserted that
Mr. Fearn breached a union rule nor are we yet
aware of any contravention on his part in that
direction. Having admitted (B. 20/l/’32) that
when a member (up to 30/4/’29) he obtained work
through our unemployment registry—one job lasting
for over two years—there would be no good reason
for supposing any different treatment in the future.
On the other hand, as employers in the furnishing
industry give preference to members of my society
—and this appears to be the crux of Mr. Fearn’s
difficulty—he should not again complain if his repre-
sentation for employment in the capacity of a non-
member meets with no success. To overcome this
handicap I repeat my invitation to him to rejoin.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITALS £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP ........ . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman) ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIENDs
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J< R. DRYHVRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts ot
the world.
All Classes o i General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—-Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
senpojj UDipouD)
MfUDUIOJI : 3 XVI
Wifi
*9
a
Lake Louise from the Chateau.
LINGER awhile at Lake Louise on
the Canadian Pacific route to Eng-
land. Every minute of your stay will be
a new ard joyous adventure. In the
spruce-scented air and sunshine, and
with a background of amazing scenic
beauty you will find many thrilling
pleasures riding climbing swim-
ming tennis and happy evenings of
dancing, bridge and concerts at the
Chateau. Only reached via Canadian
Pacific. Write for literature.
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney.
11/31-2
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
Jhe World's Greatest Drove! System
POLITICAL
POINTS
A Chinese shell aimed at trans-
ports lying near a Shanghai wharf killed two
British bluejackets. There will be more
of these incidents before the combatants
cease fire, especially as Chinese gunners are
rotten shots. As the arena for a private
war no more idiotic site could have been
selected than Shanghai. It is a vast con-
geries of European suburbs, Chinese
slums, factories and huge commercial houses!
divided by imaginary lines into “special
areas” over which rule all sorts of make-
shift administrations, international councils
and consular bodies. Thousands of yellow
Communists mingle with Westerners, Sikhs,
revolutionary Indians, exiled Koreans and
desperate criminals. And there are two
million Celestials, who have no love for their
masters, Jap or white, and are ready to rise
against them the moment law and order-
break down.
We are most of us built alike, after all.
There is a howl against Lang for pushing
the motor-’buses off the roads because they
competed with the trams ; yet the other day
when the printing-trade union asked the
Federal Arbitration Court to have users of
multigraphs included in the printers’ award,
“the president of the Master Printers’ Asso-
ciation gave evidence in support of the
union’s claim for payment of printer’s wages
to multigraph operators, whether male or
female” —the multigraph (a glorified type-
writer) being to one branch of the printing
trade what the motor-’bus is to the tramcar.
Federal Auditor-General Cerutty reports
that, taking cost of living into considera-
tion, “old-age pensioners are now better off
than at any time during the past 20 years.”
Twenty years ago the maximum pension was
10s. a week, but it was paid only in cases
where total income did not exceed £1 a
week; the same with invalid pensioners. In
1925, after several increases, the rate became
£1 a week and “the maximum amount allow--
able” £l 12s. 6d.: the figures are now 17s. 6d.
and 30s. Administrative expenses included,
old-age and invalid pensions cost a bit over
two millions in 1911-12 and eleven millions
in 1930-31. No one likes to say it, but an-
other 2s. 6d.-a-week cut is inevitable.
It was proposed to put up Prowse, a
Low-Tariffist from Westralia, as a Country-
party candidate for the chairmanship of com-
mittees, but it didn’t come off. Dr. Page, the
Country-party leader, had the good luck to be
defeated when Australia was heading for
the rocks. The Scullin Government did one
great and good act, which Dr. Page sternly
denounces, by cutting down imports till the
Commonwealth was on the edge of solvency
again. It was supposed that Scullin would
support the candidatui-e of Prowse in the
hope of snatching a technical victory against
the new Government, even if it led to
nothing. But Scullin didn’t feel like joining
Page at the price.
Lang hadn’t a word to say when the
Financial Agreement Enforcement Bill was
introduced, and four days after its provisions
were given to the world he was still silent.
Of course, he was only running true to form.
JOHN THOMAS: “If the brute were a tin
hare I’d know how to deal with him.”
Valiant in a mob and terrible at a Caucus
meeting, with the power of expulsion in his
pocket, lie goes at the knees whenever a
resolute opponent stands up to him. One
of his creatures suggests that he will bring
in a capital levy; another that he will lead
a secession movement; but he will do
neither. He will probably try to grab
the seat which Gander, the billiard-marker,
is warming for him, leaving Badly, Tully,
McGirr and the rest to fall into the ditch
which he has dug.
With an eye on the State election, which
may be as near as July, Vic. Railway Minis-
ter Cain proposes to apply rationing to every
employee and not merely to the superfluous
men. He doesn’t think it would hurt to close
Newport workshops on Saturday mornings
and keep only a skeleton staff at the central
offices in Spencer-street. This is done in
N. S. Wales, and all hands get paid for being
idle. Opposition from the Commissioners is
expected by Cain, but he will be compensated
by applause from the railway-union bosses —
if it comes. Northcote, his electorate, is
part of the Federal division that rejected
Frank Brennan, Scullin’s Attorney-General.
There is really no reason, except Lang,
why N. S. Wales shouldn’t pay its way
and live in reasonable comfort, especially
considering its remarkably large public in-
come. But Lang being Premier it is
offered the choice between being a defaulter
or a shoeless mendicant. And not a de-
faulter in a regular way—that would require
more brains and courage than Lang- pos-
sesses. Mere impudence and talkative
stupidity are only the beginning of the
matter. Successful default is a question
of knocking out any alternative State Gov-
ernment which may arise, and hitting the
Federal Government successfully in the eye,
also the High Court, and the public creditor
in general. The public creditor is numerous
and may hit back. Before Lyons paid
Lang’s interest bill it was proposed in
Britain that N.S.W. securities should be
struck off the list of trustee stocks ; in the
U.S.A. that it should be made an offence to
deal in them, or in the securities of any other
defaulting State.
There are 153 seats
in Dail Eireann.
With the election of
seven members de-
layed owing to the
shooting of a Minis-
terialist (the Free
State goes in for pro-
portional representa-
tion), De Valera
leads the strongest
party, and he will
probably be able to
turn Cosgrave out.
But Laborites and
Independents will
hold the balance of
power, and it is ques-
tionable whether they
will support the Re-
publicans in dropping
the oath of allegiance
and seizing the
£3,000,000 p.a. due
to Britain on the
money advanced for
land purchase. It is
a bad time for pro-
voking good cus-
tomers, and Britain
is far and away the
best that the Free
State has. In the
latest recorded year,
Free State exports were valued at
£46,503,400. Britain took £35,420,000 worth.
The first of the new rolls printed in
Queensland since redistribution of seats be-
came effective show that the fixing of
electoral boundaries is no exact science
where people come and go. In Gregory the
quota, based on June 30 figures, is 6574, but
the rolls show only 6007. In Carpentaria
the Boundary Commissioners did better; it
has 6709. the allowance being 6637. The
Mt. Isa division of Carpentaria now has
an electoral population of 1783 as
against 904 in December, 1930. The Mac-
kay rolls contain 7927 names as against
7733 provided for under the redistribution.
Here again it is a question of “floaters”;
Mackay, as a sugar-growing centre, experi-
ences a seasonal ebb and flow of population.
Queensland election will probably be held
on May 14. The Government says it is sure
to win, and Forgan Smith is just as positive
that he will be Premier. One ominous note
is the dissatisfaction of some Ministerial
supporters with the manner in which their
electorates have been readjusted. Fry, of
Kurilpa, has defied the attempt to discipline
him because of his expressed intention of
leaving his own seat and fighting Attorney-
General McGroarty in South Brisbane. Told
that it is his duty to stick to his ship, even
if there is a likelihood of its blowing up
under him, Fry has retorted that he is no
Casabianca.
The case of a Technical College master
who has been ordered to pay £9l damages
for caning a pupil threatens to strain the
relations, hitherto amazingly friendly,
between the N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation
and the Government. The master protested
that the boy was one of several whom he
chastised for “throwing orange peel about the
classroom,” and that the punishment (a few
cuts) was the sapie in every case; it was
declared on the other hand that the caning
had “permanently disabled a finger.” Just
when the Federation was thinking of appeal-
ing on the master’s behalf, Davies, the absurd
Minister of Education, announced that he
expected his staff to “rule by love and not
by fear.” This, as everyone knows, is how
the Trades Hall rules, especially in strike-
time.
This is the amount which each State Treas-
urer exacted in tax-revenue per head of
population in 1931: —
Westralia .. £3 12 7 Queensland.. £5 0 6
Victoria . . 4 10 0 S. Australia 5 16 10
Tasmania .. 418 2 N. S. Wales 613 2
N. S. Wales is the only State where tax-
revenue is largely increasing. Its clumsy
Government spends so much more than it
receives that, huge as the receipts are, it
has the biggest deficit among the States.
It has defaulted twice, and it has the ruins
of a busted Savings Bank lying about the
premises. Now it threatens to raise more
money in its desperation by doubling its
unemployment tax, already the heaviest in
the Commonwealth.
If the Hogans have their way Victoria will
raise £2,500,000 for unemployed relief in
1932-33. A Cabinet sub-committee has been
appointed to devise a scheme for wiping out
the dole and giving two days’ work a week
to married men and one day a week to
bachelors. After deducting refunds due to
taxpayers from the £1,700,000 being levied
this year it is expected that the balance,
£1,400,000, will serve at the present rate of
spending until May or thereabouts. An
alleged flaw in the Act has enabled the Minis-
try to euchre the Uppish House regarding
municipal work at rates lower than basic pay.
So “sustenance” is now the rule, and the
direction of Parliament that rural distribu-
tion of relief should bo the same as metro-
HANDS ACROSS THE SEA.
politan has made the bill close on £140.000
a month. Cottage-owning landlords and
landladies will soon be on the dole too. They
are getting no rent from their State-fed
tenants.
Westralia was far madder with Federa-
tion a quarter of a century ago than its
noisiest Secessionists profess themselves
to-day. Last year the Government intro-
duced a bill to authorise a secession refer-
endum, and even that mild project was
vetoed. The malcontents didn’t seek to
shelter themselves behind a referendum in
1.907. On May 7 of that year “the Legisla-
tive Council of the State passed, by 19
votes to 8, the motion, already passed by the
Assembly, in favor of the secession of
Western Australia from the Commonwealth.”
The extract is from Haydn’s “Dictionary of
Dates.” Nothing came of Parliament’s
action, of course, but it just illustrates the
difference in method between those days and
these.
It was plain enough in Scullin’s time that
Lang’s career of political bushranging could
be cut short by the firm exercise of Com-
monwealth power, as expressed in these sec-
tions of the Constitution Act, among others:
51-—The Parliament shall... .have power to make
laws... .with respect t 0.... (XIV) Insurance, other
than State insurance; also State insurance extend-
ing beyond the limits of the State concerned.
92.—0 n the imposition of uniform duties of cus-
toms, trade, commerce and intercourse among the
States, whether by means of internal carriage or
ocean navigation, shall be absolutely free.
109.—When a law of a State is inconsistent with
a law of the Commonwealth, the latter shall pre-
vail, and the former shall, to the extent of the
inconsistency, be invalid.
But Scullin proved as weak as a reed where
Lang was concerned. That person was not
only forgiven for defaulting and supplied
with money to pay his public servants and
with guaranteed bank overdrafts, but was
allowed to bring in legislation providing for
a forced loan, payable in hard cash, from
the insurance cos., in which all Australia
has an interest, and making a mockery of
inter-State Freetrade. Lyons-Latham is
showing firmness where Scullin faltered.
For a start it is making default unprofitable,
and it has stopped the forced loan.
Another tin-hare license has been granted
to a concern which proposes to race at Ken-
sington, and other licenses are to issue for
“And I thought it was only the animal
that smelt.”
courses at Lithgow, Wagga, Wollongong,
Singleton and Grafton. This announcement
was made after a Labor Caucus meeting, at
which a few trembling demagogues uttered
subdued cries remotely resembling the noise
made by worms turning. An impression
exists that in tin-hare matters a dictator-
ship has been conferred on “Judge” Swin-
dell. There certainly seems to be more
Swindell than Labor about the business.
South Africa has suffered a serious fall
in exports since it decided to remain on
the gold standard. Revenues have dropped
correspondingly, and the Government has
had to lean heavily on the Reserve Bank.
So Ministers are to be cut 15 p.c., members
of Parliament 10 p.c. and the civil service
from 21 to 10 p.c. according to grade. The
Governor-General and the Judges are exempt,
but H'avenga, the Minister of Finance,
hints broadly that voluntary sacrifices on
their part would be accepted in a grateful
spirit.
Red Russia, that model of Australian
anti-militarists, has been taking a census
of its land forces. The standing army—
horse, foot, guus and mechanical units—
numbers 504,303, the air force has a person-
nel of 28,658, and there are 45,390 frontier
troops. It is the old story. The anti-mili-
tarist objects to militarism only when “capi-
talism” practises it. He is himself an
invariable exponent of force whenever it is
convenient for him to be so. Ilis literature
and his songs—notably the “Red Flag”—
teem with the jargon of the battlefield, and
he is always urging someone else to advance
over the bodies of their oppressors or to
fight to the last ditch.
Australian Reds profess to believe that out
of the ruin of the little bit of government the
Celestial republic has at the moment a com-
munist paradise for the coolie will arise.
Mass movements of the yellow man have a
habit, however, of starting out with the best
intentions and ending up after the manneT of
the Taiping or Boxer revolts or the more
recent White Wolf affair. After White
Wolf had conferred the blessings of his rule
on H'onan the province looked as if an earth-
quake had passed.
R. V. Keane, sometime M.H.R. for Ben-
digo, in reply :
B. 10/2/’32 has a somewhat incorrect report
of my utterance on the question of overseas
interest payment. My statement was made in the
House of Reps, during the debate on the Financial
Emergency Bill, not in the Caucus. Further, you
omit my suggestion that I would pay 2 per cent,
interest on the overseas interest of £28,000,000
which would be held in Australia. This £28,000,000
•plus exchange savdd, £11,000,000, would have,
given the people of Australia the use of £39,000,000
for the relief of the 400,000 workless. I further
said that the arrangements should be approved by
both the British and Australian Governments.
The “somewhat incorrect report” was
taken from the “Labor Daily” of Feb. 1;
it appears in that paper’s account of the
Vic. Labor conference. The Bulletin
doesn’t think for a moment that Mr. Keane’s
proposal would have worked; still, it is
pleased to learn (as it understands him)
that he is no Lang-planner, but, like The
Bulletin, is for reduction of overseas
interest by consent.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
THE SEASON’S PLAGUE.
THE UNVACCINATED TO THE VACCINATED BUD: “Oh, baby, the thrip's been at your arm!”
“Nakhoda” : Not all firefighters show that
magnificent spirit of devotion which earns
headlines in the metropolitan dailies. Dur-
ing the recent conflagration in Gippsland
the constable of one little township suc-
ceeded in tearing a couple of dozen locals
from the pub vicinity and got them off,
with much grumbling, to a fire which had
started to assume moderate proportions five
miles away. After an hour or two of
strenuous bough-banging the fire was no
smaller and, moreover, a second blaze was
reported in another direction. Leaving his
assistants the constable hastened off to
inspect the new danger. He decided it was
sufficiently serious to demand reinforcements
and sped back to the town. When he
walked into the pub bar he got a hearty
greeting from] his original 24.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: An account of that
military tattoo at North Sydney (B.
17/2/’32) thrilled me to the socks when
I read it in the paper. It appears
that the scene represented a British bivouac
on the Indian N.-W. Frontier. The
reporter pulled the tremolo stop right out
in his description of the camp sinking to
slumber to the accompaniment of the wail-
ing “Last Post” —always a feature of front-
line active service. But did the boys get
any sleep? The devil a bit. They had
hardly stopped cursing the Q.M.S. for pinch-
ing two-thirds of the rum issue before a
horde of ferocious Bash'i-Bazouks was upon
them and all was blood and blazes. If
you want to know what the Turkish irregu-
lars known as Baslii-Bazouks were doing
thousands of miles away from home on the
N.-W. Frontier, don’t ask me. Try Dorothy
Dix.
* ❖ * ❖
: A “Wild Cat” par. (B.
17/2/’32) refers to periodical attempts
made to exploit Nullagine (W.A) for
diamonds, adding that the parched district
is “reckoned by some admirers to bear
resemblances to the diamondiferous coun-
try of Brazil and S. Africa.” Some
boosters went further than that in the days
when the existence of minute diamonds
on the Nullagine was first established. I
recall one exuberant mining expert who
gave several reasons to the press in support
of his opinion that the district was destined
to be a serious rival to De Beers. Not only
were the indications all that could be desired,
he pointed out, “but Nullagine is in exactly
the same latitude as Kimberley, West Griqua-
land.” The statement would possibly have
had no particular relevance had it been true,
but it took only a glance at the atlas to
reveal that the Pilbara field is nearly 10
degrees nearer the Equator than Kimberley.
The mining experts and prospectus-framers of
those days never let trifles like that worry
them.
* * * *
“Dominie” : A Government medical officer,
aided by a technician with microscopes,
boxes of tubes, wires and swabs of medi-
cated fibre, spent a busy fortnight in my
country school, mopping juvenile throats
and microscopically examining each result,
intent on discovering a carrier supposed to
be responsible for periodical epidemics of
diphtheria. All this was at the order of tin-
Health Department, which had been appealed
to by the school committee and scared
parents. Nevertheless, half a dozen stub-
born parents, despite appeals from every-
body, including our local medico, point-blank
refused to allow their offspring to be
examined. The experts could do nothing, for
the law does not permit compulsion; they
could merely report that all those who had
been examined were O.K. A month later saw
another outbreak and the death of an only
child. Did an untested pupil cause the
tragedy? Quite likely.
* * * #
“Feng-Shui”: The death from natural
causes of Yi, the former Manchu empress, of
China, illustrates the comparatively pacific
character of the Chinese Revolution. Yi
was in more danger from her own court
compatriots than from the Chinese republi-
cans. When the boy emperor tried to estab-
lish a Constitution before the Revolu-
tion his consort narrowly escaped being
thrown down a well in the Forbidden City at
the instigation of that grisly old lady the
Empress-Dowager, Tzu-Hsi. When the
Revolution occurred Yi and her husband were
allowed to go into honored retirement in the
Imperial city. In 1924, after that bluff old
Warwick (’hang H’sun had dragged the
pair out and set them on the throne again,
the nation handsomely agreed that they had
been more sinned against than sinning, and
let them return to a quiet and pensioned
existence. As the Revolution became tinged
with Bolshevik ferocity, however, the Im-
perial family became nervous and sought the
protection of the Japanese consulate at Tient-
sin. The attempt to make ex-Emperor Pu
Yi ruler of Manchuria under Nipponese
auspices is said to have hastened the lady's
end.
4> 4i * *
“Cato”: The picture of the five men who
constituted Westralia’s first Legislative
Council in 1832, recently unveiled to form a
wall ornament in that august Chamber, dis-
closes that only one wore a beard, which
surprises a commentator (B. 17/2/’32).
Actually, it is strange that even one did, for
this was essentially the age of light side-
whiskers and bare chins and lips. Beards,
except perhaps for venerable persons, were
mostly frowned upon by fashion and
authority. Yet there were rebels, even among
the young. Richard Burton, who was at
Oxford in the ’thirties, and who was
a rebel most of his life against con-
ventions, made it one of his grievances
against the dons that he was not allowed
to wear a beard, and the strained relations
resulting therefrom led to his leaving that
seat of learning. Beards only returned to
favor again in the ’fifties, allegedly as a
result of the Crimean War,
* * * *
“E.Iv.P.”: “Lizard Passage’s” account of
the Lizard Island tragedy of 1881 (B.
10/2/’32) calls for some corrections. To-
wards the end of September, 1881, when
Captain Watson was absent on one of his
b£che-de-mer fishing trips, a party of can-
nibals from the mainland landed on the
island. They killed one of the Chinese
servants and left the other badly wounded.
Mrs. Watson did what she could for him;
the next day (October 2) she put to sea
in the tank, with her baby boy and the
injured Chinaman. The whole story is con-
tained in the poor woman’s diary, which is in
the Brisbane Museum with the tank itself.
Her last entry was dated October 12, but it
was not until three months later that the
mystery of her fate was cleared up with
the discovery of the tank and skeletons on
No. 5 Island, Howick Group.
❖ * * :jc
“M.F.”: Some of these “Missing Friends”
advts. are intriguing, if only for their word-
ing. In the “S.M.H.” the other day ipquiry
was made about a gentleman, deceased, who
was born in Fifeshire, Scotland, in 1851, and
“his ancestors or their descendants” were re-
quested to communicate with an Adelaide
address. The nearest ancestor (if a father
can be so termed) of anyone who was born
81 years ago could hardly be less than 100
and might be a great deal more.
FATHER KNOWS.
DAPHNE: “ls your sister’s intended rich?”
DIANA: “Not at all. In fact, every time mother speaks of the
marriage father says ‘Poor man!'”
“Are-Haitch”: Malvern (Vic.) Court was
called upon the other day to decide whether
a dozen “household pets,” suspected of hav-
ing been stolen, were the property of the
woman who claimed them. She established
identification by describing the markings on
the 12 pets and anticipating the manner in
which they would act when she spoke to
them. She had. she added, a name for each
one, and was prepared to conduct an official
roll-call if the Bench desired. At this stage,
however, the accused gave in and pleaded
guilty, and the beak handed the dozen gold-
fish over to their rightful owner.
sfc * * *
“Feng-Shui” : Junnosuke Inouye, a former
Minister for Finance, who was shot
dead the other day, was in office during the
celebrated Bin case. Mr. Bin was a Korean
notable on a mission to the
Mikado, and he was assassinated
in Tokio by* a fellow-countryman
who disliked his association with
the Japanese imperialists. The
usual press ban was applied;
newspapers were forbidden to
mention the gentleman’s untimely
decease. Unfortunately the Gov-
ernment could not prevent the
body being taken back to Korea
for interment, and large crowds
assembled at the railway station.
One Tokio journal, feeling that
it had to make some reference to
the matter, put it this way: “Mr.
Bin was seen off at the Tokio station by
many high officials in a special coach which
had been reserved for his comfort.”
:'s sjs %
“Trevdee”: In mentioning the no-hat
habit (B. 10/2/’32) “March Hare” says:
“Probably a bank manager wouldn’t care
twopence if a visitor wore a hat or not.’
But there is a Vie. Savings Bank rule
which forbids staff members to travel to
or from their jobs without hats, and
managers are expected to enforce it. As
a consequence many anti-headgear bank
clerks arrive in the morning carrying hats
in their hands!
* ❖ ❖
“Lao-dah”: Touching the presentation of
a mace to the Royal Australian College of
Surgeons by their
English brothers, I
don’t know what sur-
geons use a mace for,
but I once saw a
weapon something
like it used as an
anaesthetic. I was
staying with a dis-
trict officer in an up-
country station in
Borneo when an
elderly Malay tried
to end his financial
problems by slitting
his stomach. The d.o.
used his empirical
knowledge of surgery
to put the protrud-
ing organs back and
sew the rent up, but
every time he did so
the refractory patient
blew hard and undid
the work. Finally
my friend put him to
sleep by hitting him
over the head with a
billet of firewood.
After that he was
able to complete the
operation at his
leisure.
“Cauboy”: A fresh argument in favor
of making electricity a compulsory subject
in schools was provided by a small boy in
Melbourne, who threw a wire across a metal
clothes-line and thus brought it into con-
tact with ihe 230-volt light supply. The
first rescuer rushed to pull the victim off
the wire and was rendered unconscious in
his turn. The next one tore to the switch-
board and turned the power off, but the boy
was already electrocuted.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: London is acquiring a building
which will be the telephone switchboard of
the world; the hello girls will be able to
put you through to
90 per cent, of the
world’s ’phone sub-
scribers in 20 coun-
tries, only Russia
and part of the
Balkans being out-
side the system. In
regard to electrical
communication, the
Great Smoke re-
solutely maintains
its place as the
hub of the uni-
verse. When the
cables started,
other countries
made strenuous
efforts to break
London’s monopoly.
Frenchmen, Ger-
mans and Ameri-
cans spent millions
in laying unecono-
mic lines without
affecting the posi-
tion. The bulk of
the world’s cable
traffic still passes
through Porthcur-
now, in Cornwall,
en route to Lon-
don. When wire-
less came there
were immense in-
trigues to make
New York the
radio centre, but
the English beam
is still the central
pivot of wireless
c o m m u nieation.
The radio ’phone is
the latest example.
It is noteworthy
that at the finan-
cial core of all
these enterprises is
still a descendant
of the original
Denison Pender, the Liverpool merchant who
financed out of his own pocket the first
abortive and the final successful attempts
to lay a cable across the Atlantic.
* * * *
“Kerys”: The other morning a Sydney
man who had drawn £25 from the bank called
at an office in a big city building, and com-
ing out paused at the front door to light
his pipe. Fumbling in his pocket for to-
bacco and matches, he found the roll of
notes in the way, and placed them on the
lock of the open door, which was swung
back almost against the wall. It was late
in the afternoon when he discovered his
loss ; followed a frenzied hour of search, in
which he was assisted by the police and
others, but unfortunately he had no recol-
lection of his last view of the cash. It
wasn’t till nearly six that he suddenly
remembered his pause at the door of the
city building. He had been twice to the
office there in the hope of some news of his
money; within five minutes he was back for
the third time, and with a shout of jubilation
seized the roll from the lock. It had lain
there in full view of all who passed down
a busy stairway for seven hours.
* :! t ❖ *
“Pawang” : A London county council com-
mission, after examining 21.000 witnesses,
reports with evident approval that up to the
age of 14 children ignore the “morally ques-
tionable element” in films. It might have
added, “and that is just the trouble.” Pro-
bably nine-tenths of the hatred, envy, self-
pity, sense of inferiority, self-disgust and
maladjustment in marriage and outside it
are due to people pushing aside the realities
of sex until the inevitable moment comes
when they have to face them, the shock being-
then so sudden that an impression of horror
and revulsion remains the dominant emo-
tion throughout the rest of life. One of
our film censors recently called sex
pathology an “unpleasant theme.” Why
does he consider the theme unpleasant rather
than vital to knowledge and supremely in-
teresting? Presumably because he shares with
the average individual the horror of sex
acquired through pushing the facts about it
on one side and substituting romantic
fictions. The films and their wet nurses, the
WANTED TO BE SURE.
“I’ve been terribly worried, Herbert.”
“What about, little one?”
“I wonder whether I really am the only girl whose money you’ve
ever loved.”
censors, are seeing to it that the younger
generation is equipped with as bad a con-
science as its elders. I was sitting painting
on a beach the other day near a couple <f
girl sunbathers when two schoolboys passed.
“Look at those two tarts with their shoulder
straps down,” said one. “Isn’t it disgustingl”
WHEN BELLA WEARS A BLAZER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I never thought to lilt a lay
Or chirp a cheery carol
In praise of girls whose fancies stray
To masculine apparel.
At beach pyjamas’ silken sheen
I’m no enraptured gazer ;
But oh ! it. spices any scene
And brightens up life’s dull routine
When Bella wears a blazer.
No garment this of sober hue
Her flexile frame that fledges,
No mere expanse of green or blue
White-rimmed around the edges.
She might have robbed, for stripes and
strips,
A rainbow with a razor ; -
It throws the flags upon the ships
Into comparative eclipse
When Bella sports a blazer.
It brings dim memories back to me,
When thus I watch her go forth,
Of Harlequins and Zingari,
Of humming-birds—and so forth.
And even Joseph’s storied coat,
Unless I’m no appraiser,
Would doubtfully secure a vote
Or score an admiration note
When Bella dons a blazer.
The Eton crop and such-like jigs
I always counted hideous ;
I reckon shorts are shapeless rigs
And hints of “strides” invidious.
But for a inck-me-up supreme,
An inky-gloom-eraser,
Give me the lavish color scheme,
The stripes that swish, the hues that gleam,
When Bella wears a blazer.
N.s.w.
MIDFORD.


“C.Q.” : When the liner Port Gisborne was
leaving Port Melbourne for the homeward
trip the other day there was a last-minute
rush of farewellers to the wharfside with
flowers for passengers. The gap was too
wide to bridge, and a young officer in full rig
rushed down the gangway to gather in the
blooms. His body was sufficiently agile to
stretch out far enough for his hand to grasp
a bouquet, but not agile enough for him to
recover an upright position. His cheerful
expression gradually changed to one of
agony and he fell into the water. The gang-
way was hastily lowered, the dripping Sir
Walter was dragged on board still firmly
grasping the flowers, and the vessel pro-
ceeded on her way amidst the ringing cheers
of the spectators afloat and ashore.
i\t * A-
“Fid. Def”: It seems likely that there is
still a good deal of minted gold in private
WATER IN IT SOMEWHERE.
“Does your daddy always wet a new baby’s hegd?”
“No, I don’t think so. But he always drowns any new kittens.”
hands or hoards in Australia; since the
banks and private traders began to offer half as
much again as their face value for full-weight
coins it is estimated that over a million
sovereigns and half-sovereigns have emerged
from obscurity. Some would-be sellers, but pro-
bably not many, have been surprised to find
that their treasured pieces of metal may be
worth even more as coins than for their gold
content; a spade guinea, a mintage
issued in Britain for a few years towards the
close of the eighteenth century, was pre-
sented at the Commonwealth Bank in Adel-
aide the other day, but its possessor decided
to retain it after learning the high value
that collectors set on it. Probably some of
the outside buyers wouldn’t be so scrupu-
lous. Collectors of coins, like philatelists,
are a numerous tribe.; I wonder if anybody
ever collected c.!d banknotes and paid high
prices for rarities. It should bo just as fas-
cinating a hobby for a millionaire.
“Friar Tuck”: The American guns that
“Goodnight” worked in France (B.
10/2/’32) were made for and delivered to
the British Ministry of Munitions. At the
time that the Bethlehem (U.S.) works were
blown up, they were engaged on an order
for 300 18-pounders. Some batteries of
British heavies were manned by American
marines. These came into action on Dec.
24, 1917; Fritz shelled them and the
Yankees replied with spirit: for about
four hours the artillery of both sides went
their hardest, right aiong the front. \Ve
were in action on Warneton Ridge, and
had a good view from the flank. I never,
however, saw American troops supported by
their own artillery, the latter, apparently,
not being regarded as sufficiently trained for
this work.
“Scrivener”: Leopold Redpath. the forger,
recently mentioned as one of the persons who
arrived in Westralia for England s good,
took down the Great Northern Railway for
£150.000. The respect accorded to a
master-criminal in any line followed him to
his new home, which hadn’t such a thing as
a railway in the ’fifties and where annual
revenue was barely a third of what Red-
path had laid predatory hands on and
spent in London. Thirty years ago there were
“old hands” in Westralia who counted it
something of a distinction to have known
Redpath, but they were apt to mix him up
with another noted forger of the period., a
barrister, who was familiarly known as “Jim
the Penman.” The latter was convicted of
extensive frauds a few months after Red-
path. but I am doubtful if lie was ever
transported.
si: # * *
“Gambit” ; Cable on the Irish Free State
elections, as the readers of an up-country
N.S.W. daily paper got it: —
The general expectation is that Mr. Do Valera
will have 62 or 63 seats, or one or two more than
Mr. Cosgrave, which will produce a. stahlemate.
The item must have produced some horse-
laughs anyhow.
* * * *
“Vasco da Gama”: Goa, that little-known
Portuguese possession on the south-western
coast of India, lias been com-
memorating the 378th anniver-
sary of the death of St. Francis
Xavier. The saint was one of
the few missionaries who made
a success of their job. for a
very big proportion of Goa’s
half-million inhabitants profess
Christianity to this day, though
it is a brand of their own—
in many of the remoter churches
the image of the Virgin lias hair
a dozen arms, on the lines of
the Hindu goddess Kali. The
mummified body of St. Fran-
cis Xavier, which lies in a
glass-covered coffin and is
shown to the tourist for a small
fee, was exposed in public for
only the thirteenth time since
it was placed in the Cathedral,
and thousands of devotees filed
past it for a week. Apart, from
the saint, Goa is famous for
its curry cooks. In the palmy
days of ’the P. and O. cuisine,
one could be as sure of finding
a Goanese cook in the curry
galley as of discovering some-
one answering to the name of
“Mac” in the engine-room.
“sth Q.T.8.”: The report that a suburban
cow had drowned itself in a bucket of water
—her horns caught
in the handle
when she was
drink i n g. and
Strawberry appa-
rently hadn’t sense
enough to put her
nose in the air—
caused a Sydney
evening paper to
recall that 15
horses belonging to
an Australian regi-
ment in South
Africa were one
morning fou n d
drowned in their
nosebags ! T h e
nags, it is explain-
ed, were bagged for
the “evening feed”
at 9 p.m., when a
torrential storm
came up. The rain,
running down the
noddies’ noses,
filled the bags, and
so drowned them.
There are discre-
pancies. In the
first place the even-
ing feed is almost
always hay or a
similar ration given
without nosebags.
In the second
place, horse lines
are patrolled day
and night by
pickets, whose job
it is to see that all
is going well. If
the tale is true and
the bags were used,
then there should
have been a few gentlemen due for court-
martial, including the officer of the day,
whose duty it is to inspect stables at least
twice in the night.
“Centurion”: At a recent conference of
Red Army commanders in Moscow, the com-
rade in command of the cavalry, in urging
the retention at full strength of the mounted
arm, pointed out its successful use in 1920
on icebound lakes where only horses could
have been manoeuvred. The episode is said
to have occurred in the campaign against
Poland. It is on record that Picliegru’s
cavalry captured the entire Dutch fleet when
he conquered Holland. The ships were
frozen in on the Zuyder Zee; the French rode
out on the ice and surrounded them. This is
probably the only instance in history where
cavalry came out on top in a naval engage-
ment.
'3' v # v
“Milly Soak”: Cue, the Murchison settle-
ment which furnished the setting for a recent
sensational inquest, is described by one West-
ralian. paper as “just a red-dust shadow’ of
what it was 30 years ago.” Apparently the
red dust isn’t the only thing that l’ecalls the
township’s vanished prominence, for the
reporter of another journal thought it worth
mention that
The police are having a difficult job in keeping
several of the out-back witnesses sober enough to
give evidence. One prospector who was due in the
box on the first day is still too drunk to be called,
but the police are hopeful that he will recover
before Saturday.
If he w r as too drunk to be put in the witness-
box it seems reasonable to assume that he was
drunk enough to be put in the cells, which
possibly explains the hopefulness. Cue was
never an aggressively Rechabite place, yet,
rather curiously, the first member it sent to
the State Parliament was as stern in his
condemnation of the liquor habit as “Pussy-
foot” Johnson himself. That was Fred Illing-
worth, who for years enjoyed an immense
popularity with the miners, largely through
-his previous associations with Ballarat and
Bendigo.
“S.T.S.”: Rufus Whitington. who . has
made his column in Adelaide “Advertiser
popular, is on holiday, and prominent
citizens are taking his place for. one day
each. Premier Lionel Hill kicked off
with reminiscences of sport and politics. His
best yarn was of a Premiers’ conference at
whicli Treasurer Barnes, of Queensland,
THE FRIENDLY CRITIC.
“Like my new hat?”
“Very nice! But, ooh— doesn’t it make your face look shabby!”
complained that his State was not being
granted “a brass farthing” for loan works,
and subsided only when a rival made the
kindly suggestion that one might be voted
to please him,
“Low Brow”: Beverley Nichols, that
superior young English person who has been
getting into hot water with an alleged
travesty of Melba in his latest book, had one
curious experience when on his first visit to
America. He called on “Big Bill” Thompson,
of Chicago, an Americanised edition of Lang,
and was by no means favorably impressed.
Returning "to his hotel, he summoned one
of the staff typists to take down his opinions.
Before he had got far, the girl jumped to her
feet and throwing down her pencil refused
to go on with the job. How dare he, she
asked, make such insulting references to one
of America’s greatest men ? To dwellers in
N.S.W. that attitude of mob hysteria-infatua-
tion in the face of cold facts has an oddly
familiar ring.
li: * * *
“Vandenbosch” : The Dutch in Java have
got over one of the problems of the depres-
sion in a way that might be emulated
in Australia, When a Hollander gives a
party his friends bring their own fodder
and alcoholic re-
freshment. This
reduces costs to a
minimum and en-
abl e s society to
function without un-
ci u e heartburning,
The idea is obvi-
ously copied from a
native custom. i-‘ v '
Javanese have an
elaborate communal
system of sejaralis
and samatans, or
festivals of mourn-
ing and rejoicing to
cover every contin-
gency, such as
birth's, deaths, har-
vest homes, coming
of age, etc. Eacn
guest brings a tray
of food. The assem-
bled multitude de-
vours the- material
part, the essence or
spiritual part, repre-
sented by the steam
and the aroma, being
the spirits’ portion,
so all are satisfied
and nothing is wast-
ed. The only people
I know who follow
the first part of the
custom is a com-
munity of painters
in Melbourne whose
shortage of cash
doesn’t prevent them
enjoying life to its
fullest. They peri-
odieally descend on each other’s studios with
beer and food, and what is left over usually
keeps the householder and his family for a
week or so.
“Plato Mulligan” : At the Rabble Burns
celebrations in Wellington (M.L.) somethin"
went wrong with the heating arrangements'
and for a while it looked as though there’d
be no haggis. Then Angus McSporran had a
brilliant thought, and whipped the uncooked
haggis next door to the Jewish Club. Isaac
Cohenstein, the Hebrews’ secretary,< did the
good Samaritan, and cooked the stuff to a
turn. It was a culinary triumph when it
was delivered to the Soots Club half an
hour later. The situation was saved, but
Rabbie must have turned .several times m
his grave.
* . * * *
“Caveat” : A street barrowman was fined
for operating with loaded scales in Sydne>
the other day, and a daily newspaper
promptly dispatched one of its bright young
men to purchase fruit from a dozen or two
of the alfresco purveyors and check _ their
■weights afterwards. The report vindicated
the profession generally from the stigma that
might have been cast by a single prosecu-
tion ; in no case was the weight less than
what had been paid for, and in one or two
instances it was even a shade above u-
But if the average barrowman and stan-
vendor gives fair measure, some of his other
methods are anything but above board. «<■
makes a brave show of the pick of j u f
wares, but too often there is a hurried gran
at the back of his stall when he is fillmt,
an order, and stuff that is by no means ill
to sample goes into the paper bag for tn
purchaser to discover afterwards. There i>
too much of this sleight-of-hand business,
and it makes the victim sceptical of barrov
OO-ER!
“Good chap, Blubbins. Came from the ranks, you know.
“Splendid! Army or taxi?”
honesty. Doctored scales may be
and the cheat made to pay heavily t „
fraud, but the other practice apparently
be safely indulged in.
GOLD-DIGGERS.
“Dr. Maloney, M.H.R., in his opening speech of
the session, said that the Scullin Government had
got it in the neck, and deserved it. Theie
were more ‘gold-diggers’ in the last Caucus than
in any in which he had ever sat.”
For forty years within the .Caucus fold
He sat with Labor’s dominating figures,
And never saw before, he bluntly told,
So many of his mates that followed gold,
Such an array of diggers.
Not those into the trackless wastes who fare,
The type illustrious in a nation’s annals,
All hardships game to face, all perils dare,
Her hoarded treasures from the earth to tear,
In dungarees and flannels.
Not those who put Victoria on the map
And made the Golden Mile a household
■word, too.
One features a considerable gap
Between that sort of digger and the chap
The little doc. referred to.
They had their shifts, and grafted with a
will,
It’s incontestable, while office lasted,
But not with pick or hammer, dish or drill.
And though they did a deal of blasting, still
’Twas hopes, not rock, they blasted.
Miners? Well, anyhow, they delved and dug,
And for their claims put in a bit of
rushing.
And cherished pleasant dreams of sitting
snug.
And none gainsay that this one got - a slug,
This other one a crushing.
Sweet are the wounds, ’tis written, of a
friend.
I doubt they’ll find therein but comfort
stony.
Kicks from behind mean mostly mateship’s
end.
I seem to hear reproachfully ascend
A wail “Et tu, Maloney!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


The Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY
Bulletin Buildings
252 Georqe Street.
N E Y
« <s v n
The Macleod Gallery will he opened
during Bridge Celebration Week, an d
will be one of its big attractions.
The Gallery, which is on the sixth floor of the new Bulletin Buildings, is 150 feet long, with magnificent natural lighting, and
largest private gallery in Australia.
Artists and collectors who have works for sale are invited to communicate with the Director, Mr. G. V. F. Mann, for 25
Director of the National Art Gallery of N. S. Wales.
Conditions and other -particulars from the Director, Macleod Gallery, Box 252188, GJP.O., Sydney.
is the
years
PERSONAL
ITEMS
qj,. Leslie Orme Wilson, who will succeed
o;!. John Goodwin as Governor of Queens-
hmd has had more experience as a proconsul
ban most of the kind that come this way.
T nndon-born, he went to St. 1 aul s School
before starting his military career with the
if MLI He Inis seen much active service ,
in the" South African War he was badly
wounded, and in the late disturbance with
Fritz lie stopped another one. Prom 1913
fj 1903 he .sat in the House of Commons,
first for Reading and then for South Ports-
mouth, and for a term he was Parliamentary
Assistant Secretary to the War Cabinet.
Probably his toughest job was the Gover-
norship of the turbulent Province of Bom-
hav which he held for the five years’ term
from 1923. Among his decorations is the
still-prized D.S.O.
George John Bell, the newly-appointed
Chairman of Committees in the Bouse of
Reps is a'Boer War veteran. Born at Sale
(Vic.) nearly 60 years ago he served with
a Victorian contingent in South Africa, was
severely wounded and won a D.S.O. In
the Groat War he was a Lieut.-Colonel in
the 4 I.F. in Gallipoli, Egypt and Sinai,
was with the Camel Corps in Palestine, where
he took part in the capture of Jerusalem in
1917, and acquired a C.M.G. for distinguished
services In the, field. Previously he had
settled in the Speck as a grazier. Darwin
sent him to the House of Reps, in 1919 and
except for a break of three years he has
represented it since. H’e was an A.D.C. to
the last Governor-General.
Westralia has six ex-Premiers still in
being. They are 'A. E'. Morgans (whose
term of five weeks was served as far back
as 1901), Walter James, K.C.. Newton
Moore, M.P., Mines Minister Scaddan, Sena-
tor Colebatch and Opposition-leader Collier.
George Hugh Mackay, who will sit behind
the Speaker’s mace at Canberra henceforth,
is a Queenslander verging on 60; his father
was a building contractor. Gympie is his
home address; the town made an M.L.A. of
him 20 years ago, and in 1917 Lilley
sent him to the House of Reps.—it lias
repeated the process half a dozen times
since. Mackay is the eighth Speaker ; his
predecessors were Frederick Holder, Cafty
Salmon, Charles McDonald (all dead),
Elliot Johnson, W. A. Watt, Littleton
Groom and Norman Makin. The first had
G- H. MACKAY, new Speaker of the Reps.
the longest term, eight years—he died in
harness ; Elliot Johnson put in seven years in
tl'e Chair, and McDonald six, in neither case
consecutive ones. ALackay is the third Speaker
n'oni Queensland; Victoria and South Aus.
have provided two apiece and the Ma Stale
one.
. Feng Yu-hsiang, who appears to be boss-
"ig what remains of the Chinese Govern-
ment since it fled to Loyang to escape the
•apanese guns at Nanking, is the enigma of
unnese politics. He is a militant Christian,
'T . makes his soldiers carry Bibles in
neu- knapsacks and metes out" drastic pun-
iment to his officers if they practise greed,
nnk or cast a glad eye on the ladies. When
.captures a city he instals Bible classes
. .shuts up the red-light districts. Foreign
issionaries at one' time saw in him the
aven-sent means of bringing the Flowery
Kingdom to the baptismal font, but after he
issued a manifesto in which lie denounced
them as hangers-on of Western imperialists,
they felt less friendly towards him.
“E.E. ’: “Uitlander” suggests that the
nearest descendant of a First-fleeter Aus-
tralia could produce nowadays would be a
grandchild (B. 17/2/’32). Nevertheless it
can show two children of a man who was
born four years before the First Fleet
arrived. In a letter received by me only
a few weeks ago from Knight Nicholas
Eockyer, late Commonwealth Collector of
Customs, lie mentions: “My father, Major
Eockyer, was born in 1784, and I, his son,
am alive in 1931—147 years, which is a
bit of a record.’’ A little calculation will
show that Major Eockyer, who was com-
mandant of the settlement formed at Albany
( 1827, was 71 when his son
Nicholas was born at Sydney in 18735.
Nicholas Eockyer has a sister, Marion, living
m Sydney.
The resignation of knight Edwin Mitchelson
from the presidency of the Auckland Racing
Club (M.L.) on the score of his 86 years,
for 30 of
which he was
president, has
resulted in the
elevation of 11.
O. Nolan to the
vacant chair.
Unlike his pre-
decessor, who
has held six
p o r t f o 1 i os,
has been
Mayor of
Auckland, and
still fills a
plush seat in
the Uppah
Chamba h,
Nolan hasn’t
made himself
prominent in
politics, nation-
al or local. He
comes of a
landed Tara-
naki family, is
a director of
the Loan and
Mercantile and
has been in-
terested in
racing and a
member of the
A.R.C. fo r
many years.
When baronet
Clifford died
and G. .S.
H. O. NOLAN, president
Auckland Racing Club.
Watkins became president of the M.L. Rac-
ing Conference, Nolan stepped up into the
vice-presidency.
Revolutionary Governments are. com-
monly supposed to be the perquisites of
youth, but China during the present crisis
is being run almost exclusively by veterans.
In fact, the old Ching emperors gave more
encouragement to the young. Tong Shao-zi,
the present leader of. the Nanking Govern-
ment, was 13 when the Mancliu Court sent
him to study Western methods in America.
He is now 72.
Charles Herbert Fagge, who brought the
mace of friendship from English surgeons to
their Australian brethren, is the senior vice-
president of the Royal College of Surgeons,
England, and a leading figure at Guy’s Hos-
pital His father was a medical practitioner
at Lutterworth, the little Warwickshire
town that, GOO years ago, produced John
Wycliffe. The distinguished surgeon married
Beatrice Metcalfe, of Sydney.
H S. Taylor, though not 60 at his death
at Renmark (S.A.), was a survivor of the
long-ago idealistic settlement of Australians
that tried its luck unsuccessfully in Para-
guay. Then he took liis ideals to the Ren-
mark “Pioneer,” made it a power on the
Murray, went on the Agricultural Bureau
of S.A., and gave a lot of help to the fruit-
growing settlements —and to individual cases
of hardship—along the river.
Major-General Wallack, whose death in
Maoriland at 74 is announced, will be re-
membered by the many thousands of N.S.W.
members of the A.I.F. who passed under
his eye when he was Commandant in N.S. \\.
and in charge of transport units in the
same State. He served with the Rhodesian
Field Force in the Boer War. where he was
awarded a C.B. In addition to home ser-
vice during the Great War, he was in Egypt
in 1915-16. His connection with the Aus-
tralian Defence forces was a long one; from
1906 to 191 l he was Adjutant-General and
a member of the Commonwealth Military
Board.
Going to Queenscliff for a holiday, Arch-,
bishop Mannix found the local parish priest
ill. So he sent the shepherd into hospital
and took on the job himself. Work was
lightened by Monsignor Collins, of South
Melbourne, who was also down at Port Phil-
lip Heads for a rest, constituting himself
curate. Queenscliff was flattered by having
a mitred p.p. and a curate with a purple
stock.
Clapp is getting good service from a device
known as a “track depression indicator,”
which is fitted to the wheels of a locomotive
to detect, measure and record all bumps
and weaknesses in the track. When the
wheels hit a depression in the rail, the
mechanism of the indicator lights a lamp in
the loco, cab (red for danger, yellow for
risk), sounds an alarm, marks a chart with
a pencil and splashes paint on to the run-
ning track within a couple of feet of the
fault. District track gangs soon locate these
tell-tale splashes and effect the necessary
repairs. The device is the invention of
Engineer C. A. Cardew, of the N.S.W. rail-
ways ; it greatly facilitates the inspection of
running tracks in tunnels and over trestle
bridges.
Crossed the divide a few days ago, Charlie
Wilson, one of Maoriland’s most inveterate
bookmen. He was 75 at the end, but nobody
would have guessed it. Born in Yorkshire
he came to M.L. as a young man. For seven
years he was a schoolmaster, specialising in
English and French, and then took to the
Inky Way, becoming editor successively of
newspapers in various North Island provin-
cial towns, and then of the Wellington “N.
Z. Mail.” In 1901 he was appointed Parlia-
mentary librarian, a job which he held for
a quarter of a century. He contributed
reviews and literary articles to some of tin'
Dominion’s leading journals and published
several books. The Wellington Savage Club,
which he helped to form, mourns its mer-
riest member.
A note from the Speck:—
Seldom were two men more intimately associated
than James Ogden and John Earle, who died within
a few hours of each other after careers that ran on
parallel lines. Botli were active members of the old
A.M.A. when the Tas. West Coast was well in the
mining boom. Both entered the State Parliament
iri 1900, Ogden the better educated-—he had
done a bit of schoolteaching in his native Vic.
before turning to shearing and mining— Earle the
abler and stronger character. He had been a black-
smith’s offsider, tool-sharpener and prospector in his
young .days; never did much underground work.
Earle, after two terms of Premiership, was deposed
from the Tas. Labor leadership in favor of Lyons;
soon after he left the party, mainly on the Con-
scription issue. In 1917 he topped the Senate poll,
but six years later he was unplaced. Ogden began
his Federal career as a Labor Senator in the same
year, but fell out with the party over a mining
dispute at Mount Lyell (among other things) and
was expelled by a State Conference. Changing sides
he topped the 1928 poll. When Earle severed his
connection with Labor Ogden lamented “My old
mate an apostate!” When Ogden left the ranks
Lyons announced publicly “None will now do him
honor.” Poor old Jack and Jim both lived long
enough to see Joe leave and spring into the lime-
light thereby.
H. K. Nock, the new member for Riverina
(N.S.W.), has spent a lifetime on the land,
and has had to meet the same difficulties as
the people he represents. Australian-born
and a Prince Alfred College old boy, he
helped his dad in a country .store and a
wheat-buying business after leaving school.
Then he took up a property at Nelungaloo
(N.S.W.). He had the usual hard battle,
but fodder conservation helped to pull him
through. After he had got firmly on his
H. K. NOCK, new M.H.R. for Riverina.
feet he devoted his spare time to helping
other farmers to surmount their diffi-
culties'. He has been connected for
years with the Agricultural Bureau, the
Farmers and Settlers' Association and the
Producers’ Advisory Council; and he is
director of the Pastoral Research Trust
and a member of the Wool Council
and many other country bodies. He is still
a frequent winner of crop competitions—he
has won two R.A.S. cups —and his Nelun-
galoo English Leicester stud flock is widely
known.
W. R. Birks, principal of Roseworthy
Agricultural College in South Aus., belongs
to one of the oldest and best-known families
in the State. His reign at the college has
been stormy, chiefly, according to the stu-
dents, because he wouldn’t realise that they
were not mere kids. A crisis was reached
on January 4, and now a Royal Commission
(Kelly, president of the Industrial Court)
W. R. BIRKS, headmaster of the
Roseworthy Agricultural College.
is digging into the whole business, with the
help of Thomson, K.C., for the principal
and Blackburn, V.C., for the students
Colonel Brinsmead, Director of Civil
Aviation, who had a miraculous escape from
death when the Dutch air mail crashed in
Siam last December, has so far recovered
from his severe injuries that he is on his
way back to Australia. The Colonel has
had more than his share of close calls.
In the war he served with the 6th Infantry
Brigade and was badly wmunded at Pozieres;
on his recovery he was appointed a staff
officer with the Australian Flying Corps in
England. Four or live years ago he was in
the. amphibian Widgeon when it overturned
in Botany Bay. Still in his late forties,
Colonel Brinsmead has held his present job
since 1921.
Douglas Tolley was, at his death, at 66,
chairman of directors of the Adelaide dis-
tillery which has made the T.S.T. initials
known all over Australia. His two sons
are on the board; his son-in-law, Oswald
Bowden, is chairman of Melbourne Stock
Exchange. His chief recreation was going
for the big fish of M.L.
Alexander Raff, who made his last tra-
verse in Brisbane the other day, was oue
of Queensland’s leading railway engineers.
He studied engineering at Glasgow Univer-
sity, and later worked under Sir Robert
Boueh, designer and constructor of the ill-
fated first Tay Bridge. Returning to Queens-
land, he joined up with the State railways,
becoming resident engineer in Brisbane in
1885. Half a dozen important railway lines
in southern Queensland were built under his
supervision, and lie was engineer in charge
of maintenance when he retired in 1918. He
was 79 when the last spike was driven.
M. L. Cussen, who has been appointed
assistant Crown Prosecutor for a year in
Melbourne, is a son of Leo Cussen, Vie.
Acting C.J. He graduated at Melb. Uni.,
served in the war, and was admitted as a
barrister 12 years ago.
Frank Wilmot has been appointed manager
of the Melbourne University Press. He is
one of Melbourne’s leading book publishers
and his poetry is known to Bulletin readers
under the pen-name of Furnley Maurice.
Counted his last sheep out at 85, that
sturdy Monaro (N.S.W.) pioneer A. H.
Wright. While still in his teens, as an over-
seer for the Ryries, of Cooma, he did some
remarkable overlanding trips; later, settling
at Tombong, he converted rugged country
into a sound productive property. As a stud-
master he had a big share in the evolution
of the present-day merino. His father was
the first magistrate at Queanbeyan ; three of
his sons served in the A.I.F.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
, Dividend-—•, To Re-
Dee., Loss. Prefs. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£/ £> Sit £
1927.. 38,754 16,898 Nil 68,961
Profit. Reserves.
1928.. 130,880 24,000 Nil 106,880 37,919
1929.. 249,357 24,000 Nil 225,357 263,276
1930.. 83,595 24,000 Nil 59,595 322,871
1931.. 36,066 24,000 Nil 12,066 334,937
In order to pay the prefs. the original eon-
tract rate of 8 p.c., which had been reduced
to 6.2 p.c. under the N. S. Wales Interest
Reduction Act, a div. of 1.8 p.c. was declared
on the ords., all of which are held by the
American parent. The parent, being anxious
to avoid a variation of the contract without
mutual consent, then passed on its div. to
the prefs., thus side-stepping the provisions
of the Act, which is the only piece of legis-
lation in the Commonwealth that imposes a
statutory cut in pref. rates. But in cases
where the ords. are not all under one con-
trol, adoption of such a course would not
be so easy.
The co. has put up an extraordinary per-
formance. It is an offshoot of the big Good-
year Tyre and Rubber Co., Akron (U.S.A.),
which, owing to pressure of the tariff, built
a factory here in 1026. All the half-million
ords. were taken by the parent for cash, and
the 300,000 8 p.c. cum, prefs. were snapped
up locally, making paid capital £BOO,OOO.
With everything right on the technical side
and all the financial backing it required, one
of the co.’s early difficulties was to cope with
ihe volume of orders. The output doubled,
plant being increased for the purpose, and
the running of machines to capacity and in-
creased efficiency lowered production costs.
After paying the pref. div., there was enough
l:o show 21.2 p.c. on ord. capital in the second
year, and 45 p.c. in 1020; then the tide
rushed out, and the figure was 11.9 p.c. for
1030.
Though the co. turned attention to the
manufacture of rubber-belting, hose, etc.,
there has been a further sharp drop in the
demand for initial equipment and replace-
ment tyres, and prices have continued to ease.
Thus turnover got another nasty jolt last
year, while exchange and primage bumped the
cost of raw materials, and casualties in the
motor and auxiliary trades kept the debts
question acute. The slip in the declared net
profit was £47,529. But that was after the
book value of fixed assets had been reduced
by £96,753, equal to 11.9 p.c. on their 1930
figure.
Since' the parent had taken nothing out of
the business, in the way of divs., £314,575 had
accumulated in cash and Commonwealth
bonds at the close of accounts in 1930. But
there was then £549,420 coming to the
parent for advancesso the board did the
obvious thing and lightened the load, as the
next comparison of balance-sheet figures
show:—
1927. 1930 1931
Pref. capital . . . . £300,090 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. capital . . . . 500,000 500,000 500,000
Owing parent co. . . 115,515 549,420 161,428
Other liabilities .. 8,572 111,942 114,592
Freeholds and buildings 160,672 1
Plant, etc 238,198 j 811 ’ 437 /14 > 684
Stocks 256,409 443,464 404,357
Book debts . . . . 141,024 226,756 219,705
Cash, etc 69,902 314,575 84,211
Thus £357,992 was knocked off the debt to
the parent, reducing it to £161,428 at Dec.
31. Cash, etc., was drawn upon for £230,364,
the book value of stocks and debtors’ bal-
ances was reduced by £46,158, and the year’s
surplus earnings, including the allowance for
depreciation, etc., provided the balance. The
reduction in the book value of fixed assets
is reflected in a growth of £108,820 in the
more or less liquid surplus (£432,253, includ-
ing stocks).
The market, which paid 17s. for the prefs.
a year ago, now prices them at 235. The
return at the higher figure is 7 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. The backing is £3 15s. Bd.
in net tangibles, of which 325. is represented
by surplus liquids, after allowing for the
final div.
North Shore Gas Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec., 1921.. 46,294 8 p.c. = 44,054 2,240 13,005
Dec., 1922.. 58.988 8 „ ~ 44,054 14,934 27,939
Dec., 1923.. 46,543 8 „ ~44,054 2,489 30,428
Pi-emiums on shares, £3445 .. 33,873
Dec., 1924.. 48,664 8 p.c. = 46,113 2,551 36,424
Premiums on shares, £1983.. .. 38,407
Dec., 1925.. 48,501 8 p.c. = 48,387 144 38,521
| Premiums on shares, £7130.. .. 45,651
Dec., 1926.. 48,344 8 p.c. = 51,675 42,320
Premiums on shares, £12,463 .. 54,783
Dec., 1927.. 56,785 8 p.c. = 56,695 90 54,873
Dec., 1928.. 59,254 8 „ ~59,254 54,873
Dec., 1929.. 59,191 8 „ ~59,254 54,810
Dec., 1930.. 41,707 7 „ ~ 51,847 44,670
Dec., 1931.. 48,496 65,, ~48,144 352 45,022
The Gas Act of 1918 fixed the standard div.
at 8 p.c., and provided legal machinery to
adjust the price to the consumer when costs
endangered that rate. But times have
changed, the Government is contemplating
fresh legislation for the control of prices and
divs., and the co.’s pound shares, which used
to be fairly steady around 235. in the market,
are now priced at 18s. The return at 18s.
would be 6.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Obviously the market considers a 7 p.c. dis-
tribution would be a fair one. But what the
Government needs to be made realise is that
while the price of gas scrip remains below
par in the market, the sale of new shares,
which must be auctioned, becomes impossible
under existing legislation, thus checMng
development of the undertakings to the detri-
ment of the community. Also the Govern-
ment could help to bring down the price of
gas by using more of the co/s tar and other
by-products instead of imported bitumen, etc.
The final div. for the 12 months to Dec. 31
was at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a., making 61 p.c.
for the year. On capital as it now stands
(£740,675) 7 p.c. would call for £3351 more
than was netted during the last term. But
until consumption increases and costs can
be further reduced (the co. has to pay 48
hours’ wages for 44 hours’ work), the extent
to which improvement in net earnings can be
looked for is uncertain. Last year's con-
sumption (829.4 million cubic feet) fell away
9.5 p.c.; but 2d. was knocked off the price in
November, reducing it to 6s. Id. per 1000 c.f.,
and that may possibly improve the sales: —
Per 1000 Per 1000
Revenue:- 1930 ‘ 19S1 * cX
Gas sales ..£289,019 6/3f £261,543 6/31
Residuals, etc. 44,811 -/111 45,041 1/1}
Exes.:—
Manufacture . . 163,636 3/6} 147,006 3/6}
Distribution . . 49,815 1/1 55,136 1/3}
Special purposes 33,564 -/8} 7,000 -/2,
Other charges 45,108 1/- 48,946 1/2}
Thus it was a reduction of £26,564 in the
charge for depreciation and special purposes
that enabled the board to claim an extra
£6789 of profit. The trouble on the Mait-
land coalfield had involved the co. in extra
costs aggregating £54,454; hence the £33,564,
about three times the average of recent years,
was sent to the fund for special purposes
in 1930.
Under the Act this fund is the only means
the co. has of providing for replacements,
renewals and contingencies beyond the man-
agement’s control. For these purposes revenue
can be charged with 34 p.c. of the capital
outlay on buildings and plant (in at
£1,107,238 at Dec. 31). Thus the £7OOO so
charged last year was over £30,000 short of
the statutory limit. When the books closed
the fund stood at £56,952, or little more
than half the maximum amount allowed.
Assuming that*plant (in at £993.900) has a
residual "value of 10 p.c., an allowance of
3 p.c. p.a. for depreciation would cover a life
of 30 years. The next table shows what has
recently been spent on plant, etc., and
charged to earnings :
Paid for out of Profits.
Repairs and r A —\
Maintenance. Works, etc. Strikes, etc.
1920 . . £25,261 £lOOO
1925 .. 39,214 6499
1927 . . 40,075 5792
1928 . . 40,935 4514
1929 .. 37,807 3828 £31,394
1930 . . 37,126 2858 23,060
1931 .. 40,015 2819
Obviously much depends upon whether the
expenditure proves to be enough to cover
actual wear and tear. The engineer regu-
larly reports the plant in good order and
condition.
Australian Stock Breeders
To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£, £, a £
1920.. 15,494 6 p.c. = 13,100 2,394 18,450
Loss.
1921.. 4.889 Nil 13,561,
1922.. 6,053 Nil 7,508
Deficit.
1923.. 15,718 Nil 8.210
Profit. ( —Pref. — N Old. Reserves.
1924.. 17,687 8 p.c. = 6355* Nil 11,332 3,122
1925.. 9,029 8 „ ~ 7920 Nil 1,109 4,231
Loss. Deficit.
1926.. 29,152 Nil Nil 24,921
1927.. 31,370 Nil Nil 56,291
1928.. 1,778 Nil Nil 58,069
1929.. 5,089 ' Nil Nil 63,158
1930.. 3,499 Nil Nil 66,657
1931 . . 8,865 Nil Nil —■ 75,522
* Two years.
When this co. took over the old Q.M.E.’s
cattle-runs in the Gulf country in 1915,
war contracts ensured both a market and a
satisfactory price, and divs. averaging 5.4
p.c. were paid for the five years to 1920. But
Europe has turned to “baby beef” from S.
America, and for more than a decade now the
story of the run-owner “out back” in
Queensland, where uncertain rains, dry Mit-
chell grass, saltbush, gidya and mulga pro-
duce a slow maturing beast, has been one of
lost markets, drought, falling prices and
rigid costs. During the last 11 years the
co.’s aggregate losses have exceeded its
aggregate profits by £79,697 —only twice has
the balance been on the right side. And
since two divs. were paid to the prefs.,
£75,522 of the ordinary capital, or 6s. lid.
per 20s. share, had evaporated at Nov. 30
last.
For the 12 months to that date the loss
was £5366 heavier than the previous year's.
The fewer cattle sent to the works fetched
lower prices,' while continuous use of the
pumping plants on the western runs added
to overhead. On Lyndhurst, bought from
the Queensland Government in 1928 to fatten
stock on their way to slaughter at Towns-
ville, 10 inches of rain fell, and that was
16 below the average. At Tarbrax the
clip was right, but the bottom had fallen
out of wool prices, so the co. got no relief
from that quarter.
It was to finance the conversion of Tar-
brax and the purchase of Springfield on the
N. S. Wales border, that the £107,249 of
pref. capital was got in about eight years
ago. But drought followed, and agistment
and hand-feeding costs piled up the over-
draft, while the purchase of Lindfield added
further to the debt: —
1923. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Capital . . £269,659 £325,579 £325,579 £325,579
Creditors .. 140,464 183,542 204,519 222,6/3
Property, plant
and livestock 392,794 437,752 454,756 466,004
Stores.. .. 2,958 4,032 3,122 2,358
Debtors and cash 6,161 4,179 5,562 4,367
The board went outside for a further £18,154
net last year, and £11,248 net was added to
the book value of the properties and live-
stock. But the grouping obscures a clear
view of the finances.
xis for the current term, no rain worth
mentioning has fallen on Tarbrax since Sep-
tember; the management has placed a large
number of sheep on the road, and is look-
ing for agistment country for the balance.
The “turn off” of fat cattle is expected to
be satisfactory, provided, of course, that the
monsoonal downpour, now due, does not fail
on Lyndhurst. But prices remain in doubt.
On the market Ss. is asked for the prefs..
which have 9s. 6d. coming to them in accrued
divs.; the ords. are offered 3s. 3d.
Westralian Farmers, Ltd.
Bonus Nominal
to To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
35,025
1927.. 44,435 7 p.c. = 12,080 17,000 15,355 50,380
Added reserves, £7069.. .. .. 57,449
1928. . 34,796 7 p.c. r= 13,522 12,000 9,274 66,723
Reserves drawn on, £13,312 . . . . 53,411
1929.. 10,341 Nil Nil 10,341 63,752
Bad debts written off, £15,458 .. 48,294
Loss.
1930.. 4,872 Nil Nil 43,422
1931.. 25,995 Nil Nil 17,427
The collapse of prices and the sorry plight
of the wheat-farmer have produced a heavy
crop of bad debts. Ileuce losses instead of'
profits have shown up for the last two years,
and no dividends to shareholders or bonuses
to clients have been paid since 1928. Late
seeding and liberal dressings of water-
soluble phosphates had lifted the yield per
acre, and high prices, a run of good seasons
and Government schemes for land settlement
encouraged production, which has bounded
along in this way in the West :
Westralia’s Wheat Production.
Average Pool Average
Total per Acre, Price per Return
Bushels. Bushels. Bushel. per Acre.
1924.. 18,920,000 11.4 4s. 3id. £2/8/10
1926.. 20,471,000 9.7 ss. 8 : ld. £2/15/4
1928.. 36,370,000 12.1 4s. 10§d. £2/19/5
1929.. 34,000,000 10.9 4s. OW. £2/4/2
1930.. 39,081,000 11.0 3s. 7|d. £l/19/8
1931.. 53,504,000 13.5 Is. 10jd. £l/5/9
1932.. 36,000,000* 11.6 2s. 7d.f £l/9/11
*Estimate. tValue, 30/1,/’32.
As agent for the voluntary wlieatpool, the
co. handles over half the grain produced in
the State, does a large wool, livestock, dairy
produce and fruit commission business, and
trades on its own account as well. But
wheat now overshadows the co.’s other acti-
vities, and is the dominant factor in its
finances.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, more grain than ever was
planted, and the ears filled better than evgr
before. Thus the co.’s commission earnings
(£133,489) sprang £34,696, despite the col-
lapse of prices, but earnings from other
sources (£131,340) fell away £24,084, leav-
ing the net increase in gross profits at
£10,612 -
Gross Profit. Exes. Net Profit.
1927.. £370,664 £326,229 £44,435
1928.. 340.809 306,013 34,796
1929.. 285,028 274,687 10,341
Loss.
1930.. 254,217 259,089 4,872
1931.. 264,830 319,180 54,350'*
'*Not allowing for reserve adjustments.
Ordinary trading exes. (£1S8,030) were got
back £18,045, which was largely offset by
a spring of £14,579 in interest charges, etc.
(£36,977). Further, many who held back
part of the 1929-30 crop in anticipation of
better returns became embarrassed by over-
advances, costs were obstinate, and the net
return to the grower was a dead loss in
almost every case. So £94,173 as against
£30,616 in the previous year was struck off
for bad debts, and a loss of £54,350 showed
up in the p. and 1. account. But £28,355
net dropped from somewhere into reserves,
thus reducing the year’s net loss to £25,995.
The board, having borrowed heavily
to assist clients, got in what it could
and reduced the debenture debt by £10,828
and the amount coming to the bank and
others by £135,654, leaving outside liabilities
at £829,613 when the books closed —£191,000
of it was in respect of over-advances already
referred to. Here is the position, so far as
balance-sheet figures disclose it: —
1928 1929 1930 1931
Paid capital. . £193,243 £201,517 £212,567 £213,140
Debentures .. 137,736 137,549 140,901 130,073
Overdraft . . 179,193 239,543 212,607 ) rQQ r , n
Other liabilities 259,493 270,243 622,587 j ’
Freeholds, etc. 92,575 108,764 130,612 132,686
Plant, etc. .. 60,354 52,986 62,188 62,183
Shares in other
cos. . . 16,120 24,213 48,570 59,008
Stocks . . 197,798 199,891 159,018 146.368
Debtors . . 490,494 525,071 818,640 644,232
Cash, etc. . . . 11,709 13,678 13,057 15,702
Including the writing-off, debtors’ balances
were reduced by £174,408 during the year.
When the books closed outside liabilities ex-
ceeded more or less liquids, apart from shares
in other cos., by £23,311, a slip of £37,931
during the 12 months. That is leaving out
of the reckoning a mortgage (amount undis-
closed) which is deducted from the book
value of the freehold. Erection of a new
butter factory at Margaret Creek added
£2074 to the freehold item, and new co-opera-
tive partnerships increased the share hold-
ings by £10,438.
Debtors’ balances are the key of the whole
position. They are largely in respect of
merchandise and other purchases, and partly
on account of advances against stored wheat.
Many of them are frozen hard, and may
take years to liquidate. Production is
back to the 1928 level, and may drop
further still. Nearly everything depends
upon the future of wheat prices and
upon costs, and costs are obstinate. This
and other similar co-operative concerns have
serious financial problems* to face; they
will be fortunate if they come through th *
crisis without further heavy losses. A lot
will depend upon the help they can get from
the Government, the banks and elsewhere to
enable them to carry the man on the land
until better times come along.
Fresh Food and Ice (Syd.)
Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 15,352 8 p.c. = 15,543 62,202
1922 . 19,816 8 „ „ 17,730 2,086 64,288
1923.. 20,382 8 „ „ 20,309 73 64,361
1924.. 15,460 6 ~,,15,233 227 64,588
1925.. 19,348 7 „ „ 19,303 45 64,633
1926.. 24,254 8 „ „ 22,567 1,687 66,320
1927.. 9,594 3 „ „ 8,463 1,131 67,451
1928.. 17,536 6 „ „ 16,925 611 68,062
1929.. 10,134 3 ~„ 8,463 1,671 69,733
1930.. 15,459 5i „ „ 15,515 69.677
1931.. 7,910 3 „ ~ 8,463 69,124
This co., which set up in 1875, is the oldest
and largest in the now very disturbed Sydney
milk distributing trade; it does a consider-
able butter, bread, ice-cream and cold stor-
age business as well. Competition, which has
always kept profits slender, became more
intense last year, and turnover and prices
wilted, of course. So, although deep cuts
were made in outgoings, enough remained
to show only 2.8 p.c. on capital as against
5.4 p.c. in the previous year, and £543 had to
be taken from reserves to pay a 3 p.c. div.,
making the average distribution 5.7 p.c. over
the last decade.
Since the £73,354 was struck off capital
in 1904 to cover drought losses —it was
restored by the gifts of 1911 ayd 1913 —
divs. have averaged only Hi p.c. Nor time th •_
co. has been unable to get its full share of
business. Extensions to plant, etc., to cope
with expanding turnover have added £148,681
to the book value of fixed assets since 1921;
but owing to price-cutting the co. has got no
benefit from the bigger trading.
The financial position improved slightly
during the year :
1923. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £258,901 £282,091 £282,091 £282,091
Debentures .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
Other liabilities 99,768 65,186 43,953 37,059
Property ] f 228,209 230,248 230,223
Plant ' ) 304,430 \ 121,743 122,563 123,126
Rolling stock j [ 44,488 41,674 39,307
Stock .. 35,749 43,743 32,601 29,198
Cash and
investments 29,289 16,362 16,344 16,312
Book debts . . 58,718 76,982 65,398 64,624
Thus, when the accounts last closed,’ the
excess of liabilities over more or less liquids
was £26,925, or £2685 less than the excess
at the previous balance.
The future of this co. and others in the
industry is obscure. The new Milk Act,
which came into operation in December last,
is a very definite step towards socialisation.
Control" of tlie supply and distribution of
milk in tlie metropolitan area is now vested
in a board of three appointed by the Gov-
ernment. Amongst other things, this board
is to fix the price to the dairyman, the price
to be paid by the consumer and regulate the
number of distributors. An inquiry has been
held to determine all these matters, and the
board’s decision is to be announced dur-
ing the week. Farmers asked for a minimum
of Is. per gallon—they, received from (id. to
9d. last year—and distribution through one
co-operative organisation has been suggested ;
it seems unlikely, however, that this sugges-
tion will be adopted. But on a day to be
proclaimed all milk supplied to the metro-
polis shall become the absolute property of
the board, which may mean that part of the
F. F. and I Co.’s plant will then be taken
over on a compensation basis. Meanwhile the
cos. earnings will depend mainly upon tin-
prices fixed.
The market, which notes the moderate and
irregular earnings, and that there are deben-
tures in front of the capital, pays Bs. (id. for
the pound shares. At that price the return
is 7 p.c. on a 3 p.c. div. basis.
Hackshalls, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Nominal
Dec., Profit. Dividend. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 15,590 10 p.c. = 7,647 7943 10,072
Transferred to capital, £12,000 ) g 213
1926.. 17,241 124 p.c. = 12,100 5141 ) ’
1927.. 15,722 12* „ „ 12,500 3222 6,435
1928.. 25,748 12* „ ~ 16.146 9602 16,037
1929.. 34,236 12* „ „ 27,083 7153 23,190
Loss.
1930.. 2,982 2 „ „ 5,208 15',000
Written off investments, £7500.. 7,500
Profit.
1931.. 6,250 2ip.c. = 6,250 7,500
The price war that led to the supply of dole
bread at 4|d. per loaf less 8 p.c. discount
(the bread is said to cost over 4|d. to pro-
duce and deliver) has been responsible
for the worst of the trouble. It brought dif-
ficulties from other directions, too, and the
co.’s general bread business has suffered ;
many customers objected to paying s*d.
while their neighbors on the dole got the
loaf for less. Also Hardman Bros., the
biscuit-making subsidiary with wide connec-
tions in the South Sea Islands, has been
affected by competition from English con-
cerns, whose products have been placed on
the prohibited list of Australian imports;
and inter-State competitors, who work under
lower award rates and do not have to pay
48 hours’ wages for 44 hours’ work, have
cut into the trade, too. So, despite a
thorough overhaul of the organisation, the
board could show a profit of only 2J p.c. on
capital last year, though that was an im-
provement on the loss of £2982 in the pre-
vious term. And half the already weak sup-
port for capital was used to write £7500 off
the book value of investments.
During the five years to the close of
accounts in 1929 profits averaged 17.8 p.c.
on average capital, and a run of 12i p.c.
divs. was paid. Over the same period
£170.000 of fresh capital was gathered, rais-
ing the total to £250.000. most of which
has been invested in subsidiaries over whose
figures the curtain is kept drawn. Here is as
much as the parent’s sheet tells :
1925. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital . . £BB,O-00 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities . . 1,032 9,089 23,708 16,804
Land, buildings,
i n v estments,
etc .. .. 84,095 232,571 255,625 251,783
Plant, etc. .. 1,534 18,170 10,273 9,134
Stocks. . .. 2,217 10,915 8,614 6,896
Book debts . . 7,210 13,894 11,410 11,033
Cash, etc. . . 7,311 11,936 6,214 6,173
Thus the more or less liquid surplus (£729,S
at Dec. 31) improved by £4768 during the
year. But everything depends upon the
position in the subsidiaries, and that is
hidden. The main asset includes an unspeci-
fied amount of goodwill.
011 the report of Mr. Justice Piddington,
who was appointed a Royal Commissioner to
inquire into what is a fair price for bread
under existing conditions, the Government
has now fixed the figure for the dole loaf at
4Jd. The discount is to be dropped. It is
recommended that the price of other white
bread be fixed at 4fd. delivered, which is
|d. less than is now charged by the Master
Bakers’ Association. The price is to go up
or down by: id. a loaf for every rise or fall
of £1 in the price of flour. Perhaps the
most amazing of the Commissioners’ recom-
mendations is that the price of brown bread
should be fixed at 3s. 9d. per dozen as
against 4s. 9d. for white bread, a difference
01 approximately £5 10s. per ton. The dif-
ference in cost of production to the baker
is 30s. per ton, which is tlie difference
between the price of wheat meal (£8 10s.'
and flour (£10). Until things change it
looks as though the industry is in for a
thin time.
Still, the market, which paid Bs. 6d. for the
pound shares a year ago, now prices them at
16s. The return at 16s. would be 6.2 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis. Including good-
will, the scrip is covered by net assets with
a book value of 20s. 6d.
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 16.)


IP y
E* ITH
m
m
m
b
K 5
as
Sg
k
m
m
iffls
m
f r \
<y\
X
i : %i:
■
1|
<N
*Y
wsssmm
o^SMs^gSessss^
9Bb>
“;' ■■■ ;' :
111
iiiil
.
V - Ik m
if!' 1 !' ’*
[Siu@
■iiiii'jjij'iM
lll!!!'l
■
•1::!::::::“!!!
!!:!!!!
15!',:;..
, - ;• , 1 in ■ =sii
i s .
1
8.G.7M.29.


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, . opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Se., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.), — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
AMP
He Looks the Whole World in the Face
A
HE man who has made pro-
I vision for his wife and family,
by means of an A.M.P. policy,
can look the world in the face. He
can throw out his chest. He can
venture —launch out on his own
account without trepidation—
lift his nose off the grindstone
when he feels like it.
What does this
peace of mind,
this courage —cost ?
Only a few
shillings a weekl
A man in good health, aged 30, can take out an
A.M.P. policy for £lOOO, payable at death, at a
half-yearly cost of £ 12/5/-, less than ten shillings
a week. Invested at 5 per cent, that sum would
bring in an income of a pound a week. Not
enough, of course, but very useful to a widow,
and, but wait, he may live for many years and
A.M.P. policies GROW. They grow amazingly.
A.M.P. bonuses, declared annually, have a way of
doubling the value of a policy in time. As a
matter of fact one policy for £5OO issued in 1875
was paid recently, and the representatives re-
ceived £1498/2/-. The longer a man lives the
larger the value of his policy when he dies, and
the greater his peace of mind while he lives.
The wise man takes out as large a policy as he
can afford, and adds to it as his income grows.
The wise wife sees that he does it. There is an
A.M.P. booklet that tells how many different
ways there are of providing for a family— send
for it.
To the AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY,
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
For my private information and without obligation on my part, send me full
particulars of the different ways in which I may ass'ure my life in the A.M.P.
Age next
Birthday.
AM - P
Although Waihi (M.L.), which lias handed
shareholders over £6,000,000 in divs. since
1893, is passing through a lean time, appre-
ciated gold values may give the co. a new
lease of life. Large blocks of low-grade
ore, usually left behind in big mines, can
now be treated profitably. Since 1923 the
co. has distributed a regular 2s. pa. tax
free. But owing to the uncertain life of
the mine the fully-paid ss. shares had dropped
to 2s. 3d. in the market. They are now
priced at 155., of which 9s. 9d. was repre-
sented by public securities at Dec. 31, 19,>0
—British aud Dominion Government paper,
£371,337 (market value), and £212,500
of 5 p.c. Maoriland stock coming to
the co. for the llora Horn hydro-electric
works. To represent the other ss. 3d. there
is -what is left in the mine, and a two-thirds
interest in a 650-acre tin proposition in
Siam. Waihi will, of course, have to bear
its proportion of the cost of equipping this
property.
* * *
“Old Warden”: Queensland is mildly in-
terested in the reported discovery by Alex-
ander Macdonald of a new gold-silver-copper
show at Mt. Wandoo, a few miles from
Mungana, in country which, though rough,
has been combed by prospectors for years.
Apparently some development has been done;
at any rate, some of the ore at grass is
estimated to go 40oz. gold and lOOoz. silver
to the ton. A battery from Kooboora is
now- being erected on the field, and a creek
running through the area ensures a water
supply. On one side of the creek, according
to Macdonald, the outcrop is a 2oz. proposi-
tion, and on the other goes about 15dwt.
Surface values are said to go from sdwt.
to 13dwt. over the whole area of the leases,
which total some 70 acres. The lode is
of pegmatite, schist, quartz and. iron in
dyke formation, values improving with depth.
Assays, alleged to be official, range from
460 z. gold and 112 oz. silver down to 4.70 z.
gold and 21.40 z. silver. It seems beyond
question, says L. C. Ball. Government
Geologist, that the outcrop is low-grade, but
shoots and pipes of rich ore may be met with.
* * * *
“Plumbism” : The scare of lead poisoning
at Mt. Isa is passing, and as soon as plant
practice is standardised and the improve-
ments in working conditions become effective,
the co. does not anticipate any difficulty in
stamping out the trouble. From July 1 to
mid-October, 1931, 68 cases were reported,
of which 17 were recurrent. None was
serious and all responded rapidly to treat-
ment. Since then there has been a marked
reduction in the number of cases. The treat-
ment of lead carbonate ore, the lead from
-which is more readily assimilated, has no
doubt intensified matters, and the hot dusty
climate and plant stoppages have also
helped. At the Port Pirie lead smelters,
w-here plumbism has now been eradicated,
it is well recognised that the exposure, of
operators to lead-bearing dusts is the prime
cause of poisoning.
% if if *
Installation of the new shaker plant and
gold-saving tables have about doubled the
Palmer River co.’s recoveries, and costs have
been got down from sd. a yard six months
ago to 3 id. in January. The 27,500 c.y. of
dirt handled during the four weeks to Feb.
5 was worth 9id. a yard, so there was a
profit of nearly £7OO there. At the moment
the dredge is working down stream tow-ards
the spot wdiere the co. got 40oz. per week
last year.
* * * *
Raub, a Queensland concern operating the
only important goldmine in Malaya, looks
certain to have another highly profitable
year. For the 11 months to the end of Novem-
ber, 1931, the co. recovered 22,9340 z., an
increase of 10330 z. compared with the cor-
responding period of 1930. For the year to
March 31 last £41,000 was netted, and
£40,000 (20 p.c.) was paid in divs. The now
oil-fired plant for roasting arsenopyrite con-
centrates is a success, and is now being ex-
tended. The very difficult, metallurgical job
thus overcome is a feather in the cap of g.-m.
Lilburne. The co. plans to re-treat a large
accumulation of mill tailings. Concentrates
therefrom are to be roasted and cyanided to
give a 93 p.c. gold extraction, and the final
tailing will be sent underground. A total
profit of £35,000 is expected from this source.
if if * *
The South American Copper Company, in
which Mt. Elliott, Ltd. (Q.), has a sub-
stantial interest, and from which it is ex-
pecting much, lias recently put into opera-
tion a flotation plant with a capacity of
200 tons of ore daily. The mine is at Aroa,
in Venezuela. Ore containing 7 p.c. copper
is being won, and a high-grade concentrate
produced; also the co. is installing its own
Diesel plant.
* * * *
Ur alia Gold (N.S.W.) began sluicing early
in January, and, provided enough water is
forthcoming, the work will continue. When
the lead is tapped at the lowest point it is
expected that ample water will be available
from soakage. Overburden on the shallower
sections, which are being worked first, is
yielding readily to the nozzle, but when
the money becomes available a mechanical
grab is to be installed, and costs should
benefit.
* * * *
Electrolytic Gold Pty., the Melbourne co.
which has erected a plant at Stawell to
treat 500 tons of tailings weekly, uses a
novel method of gold recovery. Finely-
crushed ore is mixed with a weak caustic-
soda solution and passed uniformly over a
slightly inclined shaking amalgamation
table, above which is a lead-covered non-
shaking table of similar size. To prevent
sickening of the mercury by sulphides and to
increase the attraction of the amalgam for
gold particles, an electric current passes from
the upper to the lower table, through the
conducting ore pulp. The process, which
does not recover the auriferous sulphide, has
yet to prove itself more satisfactory than
the cyanide method of treating ore-dumps.
Golden Horseshoe’s cost is less, than 2s. per
ton of tailing sluiced and cyanided.
* * * *
“Evan Dale”: The announcement that the
Bairnsdale (Vic.) School of Mines has con-
tracted to crush a trial consignment of anti-
monial ore from the Costerfield mines, near
Heathcote, recalls that this institution has
an interesting record in regard to radium.
In 1911 S. Rndcliff, the then director, sue-
ceeded in retorting a quantity of radium no
larger than a pea, but valued at £2OOO. The
ore belonged to the Radium Hill Corp., and
came from Olary (S.A.). This is claimed
to be the first radium ore successfully treated
in Australia.
Flotation of the revived Big Blow mine,
Coolgardie, is proceeding in Melbourne.
Vendors want £3500 and 20,000 10s. fully-
paids. A. ,T. Mac George, who highly com-
mends the show, reckons there is a big width
of ore in sight which should yield 255. and
upwards a ton. Previous owners crushed,
over a number of years, 40,000 tons for
£76,000.
* $
“Old Warden”: The Yarra (B. 10/2/’32)
is not the only Australian river now being-
diverted by goldseekers. At Hill End
(N.S.W.) the course of the Macquarie is to
be diverted round an island, a canal in the
old channel having been cleaned out. This is
some 500 ft. in length, 12ft. wide and 10ft.
deep. A. dam across the stream will deliver
the water into the new channel, leaving a
waterhole containing some 2,000,000 gallons,
which is to be pumped dry. Getting the
pumping and other machinery on the job
has been a stiff task; some of it had to be
lowered down the mountain side by wire
ropes. All the plant is in position, and, pro-
vided there are no floods, good results are
expected.
* * * *
United Verde Extension, the American con-
cern which has optioned the Mararoa at Reidy’s
(W.A.), controls a rich copper-mine in the
Jerome district of Arizona. This mine now
has ore reserves of 600,000 tons, assaying
7 p.c. copper; enough for only two years’
work. The co. has been very success-
ful. On a capital of a million in 2s.
shares it has paid divs. totalling eight
million pounds. Unsuccessful in locating fur-
ther copper ore on its property, and with
plenty of cash in the till, the co. has turned
its attention to gold. It recently sank a
500 ft. shaft on the Vulture mine at Wick-
enburg (U.S.A.), but met with nothing of
interest. Of recent years many companies
have optioned the Mararoa. The last to
turn it down was Great Boulder. The ore
body occurs in chloritic schist country, and
is lift, wide in places. The stone is white
quartz with a few grains of pyrite, and
the gold content patchy.
* if if *
Years ago Associated (W.A.) was thought
to be on the brink of the grave. But it still
lives, and operations have recently shown
substantial monthly surpluses. Carl Lind-
berg, after a recent inspection, reported that
the mine was nearly exhausted, but if the
present programme proved successful addi-
tional profits should be earned, and there
was the ever present possibility of a rich
strike in the upper levels.
* * * *
Pilbara, one of Westralia’s furthest-out
goldfields, has livened up. Good returns have
been obtained from old shoots in old mines,
and small parties are feverishly looking for
more. Most of the production has come from
around Marble Bar.
if si: * if
The diamond drill has struck something
rich at depth in the old Lake View lease; .
but values remain to be proved by cross-
cutting and driving. Years ago some of the
richest ore mined at Kalgoorlie was extracted
from this block, and for six or seven months
it produced over a ton of fine gold a month.
Many finds have been made in it since, but
none nave proved to be big things.
#,s * ❖
Freney Oil Co. (W.A.) holds on despite
the advice of some critics to let go. Nearly
the whole of the share capital, plus sub-
sidies from the Federal Government, has
been spent. The co. has been encouraged
from time to time by traces and signs, but
just when everything seemed right, something
went wrong. For instance, the tools were
lost in the bore, and the co. had to select
a new bore site preparatory to making an-
other start. Drilling is now about to be
l'esumed.
* if *
Tin restriction in Malaya is officially fixed
at 40 p.c. of normal production, and all
tin lands are indefinitely locked up by Gov-
ernment. Meanwhile, some of the much
sought after prospecting cos.’ shares, which
fetched 100 p.c. above par in the market
during the boom, have now dropped to more
than 50 p.c. below par. Those shareholders
who recognised that their liquid assets would
melt got out at best; the others sit back and
wait. But for how long?
% $ # *
Metal exports from Australia for 3.931
show a big slump. Copper, mainly
from Mt. Lyell. dropped from £221.400 in
1930 to £157,700 in 1931; lead from
£1,121.000 to £806,000; zinc concentrates
from £318,000 to £22,300. Zinc metal was
the exception, increasing from £202,400 to
£340.300; this was due to sales of accumu-
lated stocks by Electrolytic Zinc at Risdon.
Production of zinc concentrates at Broken
Hill was on a reduced scale, and was not
much above the requirements of the E. Z.
Company.
# * # *
Diamond-mining in South Africa has not
escaped the depression. For the first half
of 1931 production was valued at £2.550,000,
being a decrease of more than £1,500,000 on
the corresponding period of 1930. The value
per carat has fallen during the same time
from 665. to 40s. In 1929 the average price
was 80s. The Diamond Corporation,. Ltd-
formed in 1930 to finance the holding of
surplus stocks, could now allow current
diamond-production to go along unhindered.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Do the banks receive interest on the
money they advance the Governments of
Australia? Rate and security? (2) Any
fixed term? (3) In the event of budgets
not being balanced for three or four years,
would the banks still be able to finance the
Governments? (4) In the event of Aus-
tralian Governments arriving at the position
where they could pay out only what they
receive, would that mean practically a com-
plete collapse of business in the Com-
monwealth? (5) Is it comrect that the
Commonwealth Savings Bank will never
close its doors because the n-ote issue could
be increased to meet all demands on that
institution ? —5464.
(1) and (2) Certainly; it is not their
own money they lend; it is their customers’.
Most of the “floating loans” are covered
by short-dated Treasury bills carrying 4 p.c.
(3) Depends upon the size of the deficits.
(4) No. (5) Can’t say whether it will
ever close its dobrs; but the board at
present controls the note issue within cer-
tain limits.
(1) What is meant by a “limited com-
pany” and a “proprietary limited” co? (21
Brown, and Smith start a business, each
putting in the same amount of capital. For
what reason should this business blossom
forth as A. and B. Brown Pty., Ltd.? —
8474.
(1) A proprietary co. consists of two
but not more than 50 shareholders, and is
known only to the laws of certain states —
Vic., for example, and not N.S.W. It is exempt
from furnishing certain returns required
from other limited cos. (2) When Brown and
Smith turn themselves into a limited co.,
whether proprietary or other, the liability
of each member is limited to the value of
the shares in his name. In a partnership
each and every partner is liable for all the
debts; in a limited co., if Smith has only
200 £1 shares, he cannot be called on for
more than £2OO.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
8.N.: (1) The £194,753 of share capital
has been used mostly to buy mining leases and
tramway. Cement plant not yet erected, and npt
likely to be until more money can be raised some-
where. (2) Shares are not listed. (3) No. See
B. 16/12/’3l. .. .Otway: It is one of the poorest
afforestation propositions we know of. Its contract
form is quite unsatisfactory, and it refuses to
supply balance-sheets. .. .W.8.M.: (1) and (3) Yes;
commenced manufacture cigarette tobacco, Sydney,
in May last. It has yet to prove whether it is a
payable concern. Financial position will not be
known until balance-sheet is issued. (2) and (4)
Call is to provide working capital and funds for
erection of a factory at Brisbane.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Sydney Ferries
No doubt about it Sydney is an astonish-
ing city. For 30 years and more the co.
which provided the ferry service, passenger
and vehicle, between the city and the
northern side of the harbor had been threat-
ened with a bridge, and at last it got so used
to the cry of wolf that it took no notice. In
1923, however, the directors reported that
work on the approaches had actually begun
and they expected a contract for the bridge
itself would be signed any day. At that
time the co. had a capital of £623,000 and
no money put by for the return of capital;
it had £51,000 in cash and public securities,
and £42,000 owing to creditors. In those
days the late Mr. W. A. Mackenzie was
general manager, and he at once drew up a
plan. His idea was to write down the book
value of ferries out of earnings. The pre-
vious year the ship properties were valued at
£429,000. He believed that these should be
written down out of earnings to something
under £200,000 by the time the bridge was
ready for traffic, the amount thus written
off to be accumulated and eventually used to
pay off a corresponding amount of capital.
The job was found difficult owing to rising
costs; but the borrowing boom was then
going strong and the public submitted —
though not without protests, of course —to
increased fares. The fleet called for no addi-
tions ; and thus, combined with the sale of
the Milson’s Point property, the co. has been
able to pay off no less than £453,000 of its
capital, leaving only £170,000 on which to
earn dividends henceforward.
The plain English of all of which is that
in less than eight years Sydney paid for
more than one-half of the co.’s fleet, besides
providing it with fair dividends. This is
part of the price of the bridge, paid for by
the public, which is not generally taken into
account.
Pushing Cotton
While Australia is moderately busy with
its Use-more-Wool campaign, the American
cotton Interests are pushing their business
very hard. George A. Sloan, president of
the U. S. Cotton Textile Institute, recently
said that “the quest of new uses has developed
into a world-wide movement.” He added: —
One of the outstanding recognitions of the pro-
gress made in the styling and designing of American
cotton textiles is to be found in the recent accept-
ance by the Victoria and Albert Museum in London
of a group of decorative cottons made in this country.
The patterns selected were developed by Miss Ruth
Reeves, noted American artist, in co-operation with
the Cotton-Textile Institute.... A new uses exhibit
showing other newly-developed adaptations of various
cotton fabrics for apparel as well as for household
and industrial purposes was assembled by the Cotton-
Textile Institute and during 1931 sent on an exhibi-
tion tour of textile centres in England, France,
Holland, Switzerland, Egypt and Spain.
Both the Americans and the British spinners
have lecturers out talking their subject
everywhere and anywhere. The “Cotton
Trade Journal” (which comes to The Bul-
letin from New Orleans) lately reported
that experiments were being made in the use
of cotton even for road-making:—
Following experiments with cotton fabrics in the
construction of roads in South Carolina and Texas,
this use for cotton has been subjected to a thorough
investigation and study on the part of governmental
or private interests in Spain, Germany, India, Egypt,
Italy’ and England. In the last-named country an
actual construction for test purposes was completed
during 1931 in the Borough of Burnley, Lancashire.
Other uses developed have been as fabrics
for “letter-paper, advertising, brochures,
menus, and wall-panelling.”
Manufacturers organised a National
Cotton Week in England in May and in the
U.S.A. in June. Special attention has been
paid to the fashionable holiday resorts. The
“Cotton Trade. Journal” says:—
As might be expected, from French creative genius
have come many new fashions in cotton for women’s
apparel. I.ate last summer the appearance on the
French and Italian Rivieras of cotton crash and
denim trousers; novelty cotton jackets and lounging
robes of cotton tweed, marked a revolutionary change
in men’s beach-wear apparel. These new ideas are
the natural complement to the cotton seersucker
suit first brought out in the southern States of this
country.
Another American exchange reports that
the women students at the University of
Texas have pledged their aid in the move-
ment to wear cotton clothes in order to use
up some of the large surplus supply of the
staple in Texas. The project is receiving the
full co-operation of the University authorities.
The Woolgrower and His Market
Dear Bulletin, —At present the grazier
prepares his clip, mostly liis one worth-while
source of income, under the most trying-
economic conditions. It goes to his broker
and there he absolutely loses control. It
stays in store a varying length of time,
altered this year against the express wish of
the growers to suit the buyers, is partly dis-
played for these gentlemen, and in one bid,
which is never referred to him, his whole
year's production is disposed of. The brokers
refuse to give him an accurate valuation,
and it is only at the exact moment of bid-
ding that the buyers themselves know the
approximate and very adjustable reserve
placed on the wool by the selling firm.
Should a grower hold his clip, the free stor-
age ceases and he is made to realise in many
ways that he is breaking the rules of the
game. Take the case of the wheat-farmer;
bad as his lot is, he can meet the market
any time from one November to the follow-
ing November. He has the right to sell all
or part of his product any time he likes. He
can actually arrange the price before his
wheat is stripped, or any firm will give him
free storage for a full 12 months. Why can-
not the grazier have the same option? We
have in our stores men who. like the buyers,
are supposed to know the yield and quality
of any clip. And there is always a market
of some sort. Why cannot a clip be valued
as soon as it comes into store and the price
communicated to the grower? If it was
suitable, well and good. If he preferred to
hold it fbr auction he would have at least
some idea of what he was doing. We are
told the present system is the best in the
world. We have no test of that, and the
changes suggested would cost ljothing. For
a man to work a full year and employ his
capital and resources to produce an article
that is disposed of in three minutes without
any reference to him, on a day not chosen
by him, and by men who are out to make
a sale, seems to me sheer madness. —Yours,
Royal Orange.
The Tragedy of Newnes
From a well-known chemist:—
We have enormous deposits of the richest oil-
fcearing shale in the world. The writer for many
years past has advocated the utilisation of this
great national asset on scientific lines in order
that Australia might be assured of an abundant local
supply of motor fuel for internal-combustion engines.
In America, notwithstanding the existence of
natural oilwells, the possible future use of shale
deposits has been the subject of careful investigations
by the Federal Bureau of Science and Industry. In
a report furnished by these scientists, certain basic
principles were laid down as absolutely essential to
the commercial recovery of motor fuel from oil
shale. These principles were defined as follows: —
(a) “The carrying out of the initial stage of
distillation at as low a temperature as possible in
order to obtain relatively large oil and low gas
yields.” (6) “Efficient arrangements for removing
the vapors from the) retort as soon as possible, and
for ensuring that they come into contact with highly-
heated shale and retort walls as little as possible,
in order to avoid secondary reaction and decomposi-
tions of the oils first formed.”
An examination of our rich shales shows the
importance of the above principles in any attempt
to commercially utilise these great national assets.
Our shale contains a high percentage of hydro-
carbon combinations, which, when converted into a
liquid form, will evaporate considerably below the
temperature of boiling water. The old familiar
“150° Test,” as applied to kerosene for household
use, is a survival of the period when the only known
use for 1 mineral oil was for illuminating purposes.
Motor spirit, as we now know it, was then regarded
as a useless and dangerous by-product of kerosene
distillation. The “150° Test” was insisted upon in
the interest of public safety in order that no light
spirit should be left in commercial oil used for
illuminating purposes. Besides this light spirit,
volatilising at a very low temperature, our shales
also produce a heavy oil suitable for Diesel motors,
the vaporising point of which is about 500° 0.
Manifestly to treat a product containing hydro-
carbons volatilising at such varying degrees of
temperature, the raw material should be passed
through successive zones of carefully controlled tem-
perature in order to carry out what is known as
fractional distillation.
Again, the fact must be remembered that shale
is a poor conductor of heat; therefore, to place
a mass of this material in a retort and attempt) to
vaporise its contents by external heating must in-
evitably result in the maximum of waste in the
shape of uncondenSable fixed gas and the minimum
recovery of high-grade liquid fuel. An ideal process
would seem to be one wherein the shale, broken
to a standard gauge, would
be automatically fed and
passed through internally-
heated chambers whose tem-
perature could be regulated
with reasonable exactitude.
During this treatment the pro-
ducts vaporised with each rise
in temperature could, as the
American scientists point out,
be drawn off as rapidly as they
were formed in order to pre-
vent secondary reactions.
The above general principles
concerning the treatment, of
oil shales are so obvious and
so easily understood that it is
.an absolute tragedy to find
that the utilisation of the
great shale deposits at Newnes
is being attempted at the
present time by means of an
obsolete plant originally laid
down for the production of
illuminating oil, which, of
course, was' a totally different
proposition from the produc-
tion of motor fuel. It is quite
impossible with this archaic
plant to conform to any of
the basic principles which the
most eminent scientists of to-
day have laid down as neces-
sary for the commercial utili-
sation of oil-shale deposits.
The most amazing thing
about this extraordinary busi-
ness is the silence of our own
Federal Bureau of Science and
Industry on such a vital ques-
tion as the expenditure of
public funds in the develop-
ment of a great national asset
on absolutely aboriginal lines
from a modern scientific stand-
point.
Lithgow Small-arms
Activities.
Dear Bulletin, —
“Bullwhanger” is astray
(B. ,3/2/’32) with some
of his statements about
the position of Lithgow
Small-arms Factory as
against the English manu-
facturer of shearing
machines. Such parts as
come in “duty free” are
still subject to freight,
10 per cent, primage and
6 per cent, sales tax be-
sides exchange, the latter
standing for a while last
year at 314 per cent.
Owing to the manner in
which they are calculated
for tariff purposes, pri-
mage really becomes 11
per cent, and sales tax
practically 9 per cent, on
to invoice values. Lith-
gow therefore had a pro-
tection of per cent,
against the importers on
handpiece parts and
about 105 per cent, on
“dutiable parts.” With
all this protection it
would not be surprising
if the Government-made
goods were cheaper than
the imported; but actu-
ally this was not the case.
The only shearing-
machine “parts sold last
season were combs and
cutters, and these were sold at the same
prices as the imported ones carrying the
per cent, handicap.
As to the quality of Lithgow products, this
remains to be proved in the field, but there
is no reason why they should not be as good.
If they were produced by private enterprise
I would say “Good luck to them!”
The attitude of the importers towards
Australian-made goods might be open to
question as merely vested interest, but the
attitude of private enterprise towards Gov-
ernment-made goods is that of every sane
taxpayer. If “Bullwhanger” is a taxpayer,
it will interest him, as it does me, t 0 con-
sider that our money is being used to meet
the overhead on the Lithgow plant. I ques-
tion whether rent, depreciation on plant and
buildings, insurance, wastage on experimen-
tal work and the many other items that
make up a private manufacturer’s over-
hen d appear at all on Lithgow’s cost sheets.
Who pays for the hundreds of combs that
were scrapped last year after completion?
Is their cost covered by the gross profit on
subsequent products? You can bet your life
it isn’t.—Yours, P. B. Taxpayer.
Probate in Queensland
From a Queensland lawyer:—
In lately answering some queries about a probate
policy The Bulletin said: “In Queensland the taxing
authorities would probably go a little further and
hold that if the premium has been paid by an out-
sider to save a policy from forfeiture, all benefits
accruing under it belong to the outsider, and are
therefore exempt from probate even though the policy-
holder has paid all premiums up to that time.” That
give and take is now wiped off the slate. By an amend-
ment of the Succession and Probate Duties Act, assented
to on January 14, both sections 10c and 19 of the
1892-1930 Act were repealed. Section 10c provided
that where premiums were paid bona fide by an
outsider, policy moneys were not subject to success-
sion and probate duties. The substituted clause pools
the wife as well as anyone else. Section 19 pro-
vided that a policy of insurance on the life of any
person did not create the relation of predecessor
and successor between the assurer and the assured
or any assignee of the assured. This section also
has been thrown overboard. In October, 1930, sub-
section 4 of section 12 of the Act of 1892 to 1920
which provided that “No duty shall be payable
upon any moneys applied to the payment of the
duty on any succession according to any trust for
that purpose” was repealed also, so that, right or
wrong, “Bishop” Barnes has succeeded in making
life assurance the most definitely taxable commodity
in Queensland to date.
Even the Poor Nigger
“Pickax”: It is not only the Australian
primary producer who suffers; even the
Papuan villager is not exempt. On behalf
of two natives I recently sent in for sale
two bags of copra, and was quite ashamed
of myself a month or so later to hand them
each one shilling and one half-penny for theif
work. And, believe me, it took some explain-
ing—I believe they still think I was reeking
them ! This is the account: —
s. d. s. d.
Proceeds of sale . . . . • ■ . 12 4
Freight .. . . .. . ■ • • 1 2
Bags . . . . .. .. • • 3 0
Commission (Govt.) . . . . • • 1
To natives . . . . . . • • 2 1
12 4 12 4
What annoys me is that the shipping co.
still, despite the depression, gets its full
freight. Is not it time everybody fell into
line ?
Queensland Cabinet Timbers
Queensland cabinet timbers have built up
a high reputation for themselves of late
years, and one recent shipment alone from
Cairns comprised 600 walnut logs and 70
tons of veneers. Hitherto veneers were
shipped in the rough—mostly as cross-
grained and gnarled-tree butts; now, how-
ever, there is at Cairns an up-to-date veneer-
ing plant which has already sent shipments
to most of the big markets of the world,
to be used in high-class cabinet-making,
especially piano-cases and the housing of
gramophones and radio sets. The timbers
chiefly called for arc the walnut, silky oak and
maple. Cedar, formerly much in demand, is
getting so scarce that there has been a big
falling off in its employment. Another
Queensland wood is finding, favor in fish-
ing-rod manufacture —an industry much
more important than most people suppose.
This is saffron-heart, which some makers
say is the only wood in the world that will
remain straight permanently, excelling in
this respect even the famous greenheart,
which is now so scarce and expensive that
split-cane rods hate almost dominated the
market.
Truck Tyre Does 70,000 Miles
“Larrapinta”: In Black and May’s
Garage, Naracoorte (S.A.), there is a 40 x 8
heavy-duty Goodyear lorry-tyre, which was
on the Padthaway station truck for seven
years, and in that time ran well over 70,000
miles without retreading; its mate was in
use for five years and covered approximately
50.000 miles. Both tyres were always .kept
inflated to full pressure, thus avoiding.the
effects of under-inflation, which has ruined
more tyres than ever hard work did, and half
of the running was done over dirt tracks,
which are, of course, the kindliest surface
to rubber in existence. But, even so, the
performance is astounding, especially to any-
one who, like myself, can recall when the
car- or truck-owner felt like giving a garden
party to celebrate the fact that he had got
2000 miles out of a tyre.
OUT OF FAVOR.
MISS LEAGUE OF NATIONS: “He loves me, he loves me not.”
THE JAP ON THE TANK: “As a matter of fact, Miss, I haven’t got you on my mind at all.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s
<*]“ • (COm ;. SatUrday) .. •.; •. Movils Ind Talkfes
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
R ...... “The Chocolate Soldier
“ : Tl ' AS* St.
♦
The First Form at St. Canberra’s
The shouts arid laughter of happy clul^ r ®“
drifted in through the open window, and at
the joyous sound the Taxpayer raised his
o T ev old head from the newspaper he was
perusing. A gentle smile suffused his vener-
“Dissecting a lizard.”
able coun-
tenance as he
lit his pipe
and, leaning
his chin on
hi s hands,
surveyed the
scene before
him.
It was a
crisp, clear,
cool, bright
and windless
morning. Tile
early sun was
shining with
genial vigor.
Its rays gave a tender tone of blue to
the distant foothills of the Australian
Alps, it glittered on the crystal waters
of the meandering Molonglo, it rippled
among the leaves of the innumerable
parks and gardens which stretched from
below the Taxpayer’s window almost as far
as the eye could reach and in every direc-
tion. It sparkled on the Canberra power-
house. It fell with a caress on the Parlia-
mentary kitchen, the Parliamentary library,
the Parliamentary ice plant, bowling green
and other accessories to that majestic build-
ing, the queen of Australia’s governmental
institutions, on the proud facade of which
it laid an almost awestruck finger, as if
eager to feel the
lovely contours
of one of the
world’s pearls
of architecture.
The Taxpayer’s
eye wandered
over the details
of this scene,
and then it con-
cen t r ated on
what was imme-
diately below it.
On the beauti-
fully - trimmed
lawn of the
stately hotel, m
which he had
been able to ob-
tain a room
through the
kindness of a
member of the
“Edible snails for a new
Australian industry.”
Government, romped a hundred or more
politicians. There was little Stanley Bruce,
barelegged except for his spats, merrily en-
deavoring to bowl a hoop between the legs
of his playmate, wee Morris Hughes (“Billy”
only to his intimates). There was jolly
.Tim Scullin, a trifle thinner since his recent
attack of collywobbles—dear little chap,
thought the Taxpayer, he bore up under his
suffering so bravely, never whimpering, never
complaining, taking his castor oil like a
little Briton, telling the
doctor in his quaint
way that he knew it
was only a temporary
indisposition, and that
it wouldn’t be long
before his stomach was
about again—Jimmy
“Had to be dragged out.”
was flying a great big sky-raider, sending
fiduciary notes up to it, pretending they were
messages to his little friend Theo, who was
away sick in Sydney. And there was Earle
Page, nicknamed “the Doctor” —he was
busily engaged dissecting a lizard with his
little pocket-knife, protesting to a circle of
admirers that he could remove its protective
tariff without killing the animal, while young
Harry Gullett stood by telling him in breezy
juvenile slang that he hadn’t a dog’s chance.
And there was sturdy Archie Parkhill, shoot-
ing with a shanghai at a white puppy that
Johnny Latham had dipped in red ink and
labelled “Communist.” And there was
Gcordie Pearce,
at the lily-pond,
spreading de-
struction and
dismay amongst
the Japanese
goldfish by
chewing up
pages of the De-
fence Begula-
tions and firing-
them through a
peashooter. And,
last but not
least, there was
Joey Lyons—
the apple of the
Taxpayer’s eye,
“Plots and conspiracies to
take away the Govern-
ment’s majority!?
but, oh, so lonely! None of the other
boys would talk to Joey. His old associates
had cruelly turned against him, and his new
friends —children are such snobs —didn’t like
the clothes he was wearing! So Joey was
being studious, sitting under a tree learn-
ing all about economics from leaders he had
cut out of the “Argus,” the “S. M. Herald”
and the Sydney “Worker.” Every now and
then he would glance up and make a comical
attempt to look like Mussolini.
Wiping away a tear that had come into
his eye at the sight of the knitted brows of
little Joey, the Taxpayer lighted his second
pipe and prepared to go out and have a
romp with the children; but before he could
do so a bell rang, and all the boys trooped
in to breakfast. How they loved the por-
ridge ! —all except
Joey. Poor boy,
some spiteful person
had mixed his with
mustard! How they
devoured the nice big
slices of bread spread
with plum jam so
thickly they had to
swallow them quickly
or it slipped down
their sleeves! How
the waiters rushed
about, filling the
mugs with steaming
tea, while the house-
keeper beamed on her
big boisterous happy
family and shook her
finger good-humoredly
at little Stan for
“An attempt to look
like Mussolini.”
advertising his state of repletion too loudly.
And then the excitement when the Sydney
and Melbourne mails came in and. the boys
started spelling out to one another the nice
things the newspapers were saying about
them!
. But even the healthiest boy can’t eat for
ever. Out they rushed again to resume their
interrupted recreation. Some went bird-
nesting, others sped
off to stone frogs
in the Molonglo,
others to run races
on their scooters,
half a dozen rather
rough boys were
trying to see who
could spit the
farthest. Some of
the more serious
ones joined in a
friendly argument
about international
disarmament. Little
M aster Hawker
went off to talk to
his friends the gar-
deners who, good-
hearted fellows,
were collecting ed-
ible snails for him
so that he could start a new Australian
industry
Suddenly, when the fun was at its high-
est, a gun boomed solemnly. Every lad's
eye, brightened. They didn’t need the Tax-
payer to tell them what that portended.
This was the first, day of the new quarter,
and the'Taxpayer had planned to give them
a grand entertainment. Off they all rushed
to Parliament House, whistling, whooping
and leapfrogging. There was a big band
and real sol-
diers, in real
uniforms
with real
rifles, wait-
ing to receive
them. An d
there was the
Gover nor-
G e n e r a 1,
dressed in
fancy dress,
just as if he
were Father
Chris tmas.
and aides-de-
ca m p and
things stand-
in g behind
him. How
the children
“A friendly argument about
disarmament.”
clapped their hands at the tall one with tights
on and a great big thing on his head like a
tea-caddy that hadn’t shaved for a long time!
And the guns roared and the band played
“God Save the King” and the soldiers stood
at attention while the children stood quiet
and well-behaved, although they were dying
to rush into the big nursery and start the
games the Taxpayer had invented for them.
At last they all got seated after a little
scrambling, and then they sent a loyal mes-
sage to the Crown, and the Governor-General
read them a fairy story called his Govern-
ment’s Policy. (It was a fairy story because
he didn’t really write it and the people who
wrote it didn’t mean it.) Then the real
fun started!
How the Taxpayer’s heart glowed as he
sat in the Strangers’ Gallery and watched
his big family enjoying themselves! First
“Pearls of architecture .”
Joey Lyons got up and said the country
was sound at heart and had made the right
choice and had turned the corner and pros-
perity would return as soon as the nation
was re-hab-il-it-ated. Some of the boys
laughed and said that they had heard that
one before and what was he going to do
about it? And so he said that he stood
where he had always stood, and that made
them laugh more merrily than ever, which
made him blush and lose his place, poor
fellow! And then Stan Bruce got up and
made a long speech and used words he
couldn’t possibly know the meaning of at his
age. He talked about pegged exchanges and
sound finance and computable economic
values and things he’d never heard of two
years ago, clever chap. And then wee Billy
Hughes got up and he quoted Greek and
Latin authors straight out of the “Encyclo-
paedia Britanuica” and said something from
Shakspeare about Australia being a spectrcd
isle and that everything would be all right if
only Australia to itself be true. He used
even longer words than Stanley. And then
all the others talked, sometimes one after
the other and sometimes all together, because
that was the way the game was always
played. And it made the Taxpayer’s Adam’s
apple rise to see the way the lads behaved,
just like grown-ups, answering each other
back good-humoredly, with funny little wit-
ticisms such as “Keep your hair on,” “Sit
down ” “Go on.” “Shut up, Chuckimout,
“Garn git yer head read.” And of six boys
who had to be told by the Speaker to leave
the room, only three had to be dragged out.
And so it went on till lunch came round,
when there was more plum jam and Hots
of tea, and then some of them returned
to the nursery while others went to me
bowling green or had a game of billiards
or snooker, or visited the reading-room and
plaved at forming plots and conspiracies -o
take away the Governments majority. And
a few wandered into the library where all
the exercise-books were kept that the boys had
filled in previous years, so that they could
look up what their friends had said before
in case what they said now was different.
And then dinner-time came, and there
were scones and cake, and the housekeeper
said that at Easter, if they were good, there
would be hot-cross buns, and one boy, who
called himself a Communist, said, would they
be baked in the fires of revolution? Every-
body laughed and thought it was a great
joke. It was a long, tiring but happy day,
and at length bedtime came and all die
' children went to rest after saying their
prayers as usual. ' Only some of the new
ones wept a little at sleeping for the first
time in a strange bed. but the housekeeper
tucked them in and told them the story of
Jack Lang the Giantkiller, and told them not
to be frightened; they would soon get used
to it. The Sandman would come along and
"Romped a hundred or more politicians."
they wouldn’t have to stay there for ever ;
they could go home whenever they liked
and stay away as long as ever they wished;
it wouldn’t make any difference.
And after the last sobs of the little ones
had merged into gentle snores the Taxpayer
went on to the verandah for a last smoke
before going to bed himself, and as he gazed
at the . vast arch of Heaven, whose twink-
ling eyes looked down with equal magna-
nimity on the just and the unjust, the vir-
tuous and the wicked, the employed and the
unemployed, the wealthy and
the indigent, the capitalist
and the communist, on the
thronged casinos of Monte
Carlo and the starving-
myriads of America, on the
yachts of touring million-
aires and the empty cargo
vessels in English harbors,
on the war clouds lowering
over Asia and the black fog
of depression hanging over
Europe, he said to himself,
“Ah, after a lifetime of un-
remitting toil, of strict at-
tention to business, of fore-
thought thrift, industry, re-
source, loyal observance of
my obligations, faithful ful-
filment of every contract, of
patience under the blows of
unmitigated circumstance,
how gratified I should feel
at having been rewarded with
the privilege of being the
father of all those happy
children, of being able to
shelter the dear lads in this
Eden protected safely from
the cold winds of Reality!”
Then he knocked the
ashes of his pipe <Ait on his
“Like a tea-
caddy that
hadn’t
shaved for a
long time.”
boot, out of which the toes were protruding,
and sought the arms of Morpheus.
A huge, noisy, demonstrative, patriotic and
undiscriminating audience munched “The
Chocolate Soldier” with every symptom of
keen enjoyment at Melbourne Royal on
Saturday night. The chief cause of the out-
burst of emotion was Nadina, alias Gladys
Moncrieff. Clinging desperately to his seat
to prevent himself beiim swept into the pit
by the torrents of applause this Showman
tried to analyse the reason for Gladys’s
immense popularity. He came to the con-
clusion that she is an institution, like the
Australian Constitution. A Constitution con-
tinues to be regarded as the acme of per-
fection even when it has been completely
undermined by time. Not that time has
undermined Gladys. A referendum for alter-
ing, amending or abolishing her would
fail. She has as yet no peer in her
particular line, and the fact that her voice
has less sweetness, if more art, than of yore
is likely to be overlooked for some time to
come. Gladys is a better excuse for “The
Chocolate Soldier” than its claim to be a
parody on Shaw’s “Arms and the Man.”
Shaw’s play is a hard centre. Os-"- Straus’s
“Endeavoring to bowl a hoop between the
legs of wee Morris Hughes.”
comic opera is one of those squashy pieces
of confectionery that melt in hot weather,
leaving a browny mess at the bottom of the
box. The present production, due to Charles
Wenman, is distinguished by the chirpy per-
formance of Romola Hansen as Mascha and
the good singing of the Bulgarian army. If
the present row in China could be settled by
the belligerents singing at each other'the
side that had a regiment of Bulgarians with
Major Herbert Browne and Lieut. Sydney
Burchall in command would win hands down
¥ ¥ ¥
The performance 0 f “Outward Bound” by
the New Sydney Rep. at St. James’s Hall
Sydney, on Saturday was Scott Alexander’s
second shot at the play. On the first occa-
sion he had the aid of a very capable bunch
of actors, but in his second venture he was
not so fortunate, the production being ham-
pered also by the small stage and primitive
lighting arrangements. Dick Cavill, who
played the blustering Mr. Lingley, and Ethel
Gabriel, who was Mrs. Midget, the Cockney
charwoman, divided the honors of the even-
ing, and Kenneth Fowles (Henry) and
Barbara Smith (Ann) dead-heated for
second place. The rest were poor.
“Outward Bound” will be played again to-
morrow (Thursday) evening.
¥ ¥ ¥
The Australian Play Society, recently
formed in Sydney—it is an offshoot of the
Community Playhouse—proposes to give a
helping hand to the much-neglected Austra-
lian dramatist by staging two or three one-
act plays every four weeks, and a full-length
play every quarter. In the week following
Easter, 27 one-acters will be staged at
the iEolian Hall, siftings from the entries
received for the Community Playhouse one-
act . play tournament of last ypar. Prizes
will be awarded after the week’s orgy. At
the inaugural reception, at which Carrie
Tennant did the explaining, two one-act
plays were staged., “The Cupboard Mystery”
—in which a youth spends an evening
trapped in a cupboard in a lady’s bedroom
—served'to'demonstrate the ability of Betty
Suttor and Paul Spitzer, and Michael
Arl'ess’s “When > the Nightingale Sang in
Berkeley-square” gave John O’Keeffe, J. Cal-
lahan'and Irene'Packard an opportunity to
show, what they could do: Miss Tennant’s
new enterprise deserves all sorts of good
luck, 'but wha t -has-happened to delay the
performance by her Community Theatre
group, of Tom Cushing’s “The Devil in the
Cheese,” promised last December?'
¥ ¥ ¥
The' Pickwick Theatre Group, whose act-
ing circle comprises r several mummers who
used to be with the New Rep. Soc., staged
at Sydney Savoy last week Patrick Hamil-
ton’s ;“Rope,” which - was produced by the
latter body a few months ago. The part of
Rupert Cadell, poet and wounded soldier,
whose observation and instinct led .to the
revealing off the 'murderers, was again very
capably played by 1 Phillip. Lewis. Dick
Pockley, another of the original cast, was as
convincing as before in the r6le of the prin-
cipal murderer. He was well supported by
Paul * Spitzer as the chicken-hearted second
murderer. The part of Leila Arden, the
gushing flapper,-was well handled by Flora
Abbott, and Cedric Ivempson, as her doting
admirer, helped' her to keep the comedy spots
alive. - Stanley Reading and Vera. Yale gave
fairly good characterisations of minor parts.
A.' C.' Winn produced the piece. This even-
ing the same group will present “Cynara.’
¥ ¥ ¥
In “The White Blackbird,” a new play by
Lennox Robinson, at Melb. Queen’s Hall
last week, Beresford Fowler was not suited
to the r6le of a young Englishman who is
left a legacy by his father and uses it to
order the lives of his mother, stepfather,
stepsisters and brother. The stepfather
was in tlie extremely flaccid hands. .ol
Charles Mason. Douglas Kelly and Linda
Newcombe, as junior members of the family,
infused some* ardor into the proceedings, and
Marjorie McLeod expressed the thwarted
emotions of the mother with a great deal
of vigor. A couple of lines: Mother:
“Rather than take your money I would go
on the. streets.” Daughter: “Oh, Mother,
aren’t you a little too old for that sort ot
thing?” As with bad cooking, much ot the
nourishment in “The White Blackbird” goes
down the sink. It tells a story rather than
reveals the motives which an intelligent
audience feels must lie behind the actions
of the characters. There was the usual
houseful.
¥ ¥ ¥
In “The Marquise,” an English play on
a French theme, by Noel Coward, which was
excellently produced by the Proscenium Gum
at Melbourne Playhouse on Saturday, the
Marquise Eloise de Kestournel invents, a
broken-down barouche as an excuse for in-
truding on the chateau of the Comte Raoim
de Vriaac, a pompous ass who has lately
buried a wife and is engaged in arranging
a marriage of convenience between his dang i-
ter Adrienne and Miguel, the son of a fn pn •
The Marquise turns out to be a former m • -
tress of both the count and his friend, an
the betrothed couple are the illegitimate o
spring of her liaisons with the pair, tua -
riage with a pious woman has made .
reformed character of the count, and he con-
siders tlie marq.uise a thoroughly Bad go-
and wants to turn her out of the house; a
he is unaware of the true relationship
tween his daughter and his prospective s
in-law. The marquise successfully labors •
prevent the match, and, a convenient lo ‘
to the Happy Ending is provided oy
Adrienne’s love for Jacques Rijar, secre < •
to the count. The play is hardly worth a
adequate performance, and it got more
it deserved from the Proscenium Club, wn
most efficient member is Margaret Go
ton, a Frenchwoman herself. As the m
quise this charming actress gave the P
the only touch of reality of which .
boast, • though not even Mme. Cocke
could make this Showman believe t ■
woman like the marquise would wast W n e
time trying to rekindle love m the bre« *-
such an egregious donkey as the - ’
Edgar Veitch. Irene Mitchell. Frank .
son, Allan Nicholson and Edward C
were also up to their job.
¥ ¥ *
Adelaide Royal is starting the WiUiam-
sonian “Sinbad” pantomime, with . ’
Blunt, Field Fisher, Lilian Crisp and
comedy stars. Nellie Bramley has found a i
popular-priced season in that house o - ..
cessful that she is transferring to the
The best work of her co. so. far has Dee
in “On the Spot” ; but her feminine admn e
flock to see her in girly parts ot the
anna and Eliza type.


r llus is ike life
w
//
*
rnmmmm
m
mmm
>:¥i
'wmm
mm
m
BBS
gfi
wr
m
m
m
m
m
C c °
o^o
• • •
A
FAIR wind ... a blue sky
. . . and a Country Life
between your lips. That’s the
life indeed. "No better sport"
declares the yachtsman and
"no better cigarette." Fine
cool-smoking Virginian to-
bacco, perfect rolling and
packing, have won squadrons
of smokers to Country Life.
(ountry Life
CORK TIPPED VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
r»r#
And in Tins of 50, 100 and 150.
50s, Round Airtight Tins.
Also
Z 867


IT IS SO EASY
Just a stroke of the pen, the mere recording of a signature, is
all that is required for the establishment of a Savings Account
that may eventually mean more to you than any business
arrangement you have ever undertaken.
Of course, a Savings Account may not be commenced without
some money, but since a sum so small as 1/- will be accepted
as the first deposit, hardly any person, man, woman or child,
need be without this simple, easy and profitable aid to the
accomplishment of financial independence.
Record your signature now and start your shillings to working
for you.
Cbmmoitwealtb Saving JBank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government,)
BRITAIN—MaKe Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman”—Bi hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
VISITORS TO EUROPE!
PARIS INTERNATIONAL
TRADE FAIR
4th to 18th May, 1932.
Embraces all branches of manufacture and production. Exhibitors from
over thirty foreign countries make this one of the world’s most important
and attractive Commercial and Art displays.
Buyers visiting the fair will be granted special transport discounts.
Full particulars from
THE FRENCH TRADE COMMISSIONER
BANK OF N.S.W. CHAMBERS, WYNYARD STREET, SYDNEY.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Veritas”: I often wonder what became
of Stockwhip Tom, who flourished —yes,
that’s the word —out Wantabadgery way
in the ’nineties. As a whip artist, he had
no eoual. I’ve seen Tom brand half a hun-
dred clean-skin steers in as many minutes.
He used to tackle them in the open on a
pretty good stock horse and carve the brand
on the near rump with a piece of wire that
he substituted for a cracker on his whip. But
that was a mere trifle when it came to
dinkum wliipmanship. I have watched him
trim a 50-yard laurel hedge and mow a
quarter-acre lawn with his whip on a Sun-
day afternoon, just for practice, before
tailing and earmarking a couple of thou-
sand lambs with the same implement on the
Monday. On one occasion for a wager he
ringbarked 50 fair-sized saplings under the
half-hour. He could whip the whiskers
and hair off a Binghi boundary-rider as
quickly and efficiently as a Sydney barber
could do it with clippers. For ringbarking
or hay-cutting Tom used No. 10 galvanised-
wire on his whip, but for haircutting oi
beard-trimming he preferred the finer wire
used for making ’possum snares. The only
time I saw Tom worried at all was when
shearing a sheep. The chap holding the
jumbuck didn’t know his job, and at
times the lash got tangled in the wool and
delayed the pi'oeess. Where he hadn’t to
employ an assistant Tom never had any
trouble.
* * * *
“Timi” : Quaint things happened when the
Maori was in the beginning of his
acquaintance with the scientific contraptions
of the pakeha. Tom McDonnell, who com-
manded a mixed force of whites and Maoris
in the campaign against the Hauhaus, had as
an ally the chief Kepa Taitoko, head of a
Wanganui contingent of Maori soldiers.
They were chasing Te Kooti west of what
is now the Tongariro National Park. It
was rough, unpeopled tussock and bush land,
roadless, almost trackless. As the force
entered the forest, a dense fog and cold,
drizzling rain set in, but McDonnell had
taken compass bearings of the direction in
which fires had been reported by the scouts
and felt confident he would come on
his enemy before night. Presently Kepa
asked to be allowed to carry the com-
pass and lead the way. Knowing that
Kepa’s instincts in the bush were superior
to his own, the white officer agreed,
and Kepa headed the march. All day long
the force trudged through the dripping
bush, up hill and down gully, rain pouring
down the whole time. McDonnell felt that
the expedition was going wrong, but Kepa
was excited and optimistic. “We are close
on Te Kooti,” he said; “we come on his
camp any time now.” Night fell, and
Kepa begged that no fires should be
lighted, so the force bivouacked as it was,
half-famislied with cold and hunger. It
was not until next day that McDonnell dis-
covered that Kepa had been leading the
force north instead of west, getting further
THE NEWCHUM AT THE BRANDING.
“But won’t it hurt the poor thing, sir? Did you ever try branding them with Indian
ink? It answers perfectly with my shirt and collars!”
and further away from its quarry all the
time. He asked the chief the why and
wherefore when they were marching back
disgruntled to camp. “It’s the compass,”
explained Ivepa. “It must have pointed tlm
A WASTE OF GOOD WIND.
“Wot do they mean by ‘superfluous,’ Bill?”
“Aw, somethin' unnecessary . Like the ‘Will yer' in ‘Will yer cumanavadrink’.”
wrong way.” “But the compass needle
always points to the north,” said McDonj
nell. “ Etama /” exclaimed Kepa. “f
thought it was pointing out Te Kooti. Then
when we didn’t find him I thought it w ? as
telling lies. Humbug te comp’!” But Kepa,
known to Europeans as Kemp, was a good
soldier. He earned a major’s commission
before the war was ov*er.
“Meloneesher”: Dishonest practices re-
cently detected on racecourses remind me
of the old turtle-racing days
on Hobo Hobo Island. I was
one of the stewards, and
thoroughly earned my fee of 10
cocoanuts a day. Perhaps the
worst raco from a steward’s point
of view was the Hobo Hobo
Ladies’ Bracelet (an ornament
made of sea-shells and my dis-
carded razor blades). Hulu, the
top weight, was thought to be a
certainty. In the sam» stable was
Cocoanut Blossom, a rank out-
sider. The race was three parts
over, with Cocoanut Blossom lead-
ing, when our suspicions were
aroused by the discovery of cer-
tain queer-looking tools in the
possession of Hulu’s trainer.
Then we found that Cocoanut
Blossom had been heavily sup-
ported at the s.-p. shops. Suspicion
became darker when Hulu made a
splendid last-minute run, coming
from last position to win on the
post in the 100 yards’ record time
of 23hr. Bmin. We immediately
examined the place-getters, and
found that the stable had hoped to
bring off a coup, ringing in Hulu
as Cocoanut Blossom by a sub-
stitution of shells. But the real
Cocoanut Blossom’s rider had “in-
vested” a great many cocoanuts
on the official tote, and with the
help of an electric eel beneath the
saddle had won under the name
of Hulu. The king of the island
ordered all the stable connections
to be thrown to the sharks. The
transposed shells by his decree
were exported to the" U.S.A. to be
made into spectacle rims, and the
turtle that came third was dis-
qualified on general principles.
This left the king's own turtle,
which ran fourth, the winner.
“Larrapinta”: Although it is a job which
I have done times beyond number, the actions
of bees after they have been shifted to a
new site always interest me. All night the
beekeeper has been driving his truck at top
speed over rough tracks, and when the sun
is just rising he. reaches the new locality.
Ihe load is hastily unron"d the hives are
lifted down, carried out and set down in
pairs, entrances facing the east, with a gap
of 10 feet between each pair, and 20 feet
between each row. The ropes are then
coiled up, the truck is driven to a shady spot
a couple of hundred yards away, and
the beekeeper goes along the rows opening
the entrances, releasing a horde of savage
insects from each hive. The bees soon find
that they are not in the same spot as they
were the previous evening. Bewildered, they
circle to get their bearings and to note the
position of their own hive in reference to
the others. Then off they fly to get water
with which to feed the larva? in the brood
combs. They soon find the creek, and return
water-laden. Meanwhile other bees have
discovered trees in flower, and they come
back laden with either pollen or honey.
They speed inside the entrance with the
news: a few seconds later the hive
awakens with a low hum of excitement,
which grows rapidly louder. Workers come
racing to the edge of the alighting board and
take wing so swiftly that the eye can hardly
follow them; they circle to pick up their
bearings, then vanish’. Soon the hive is
a-buzz with activity. The entrance guards
stand in a vigilant line to repel their in-
veterate foe, the ant; behind them other
bees stand with wings vibrating in order to
blow a current of air through the hive;
housemaid bees come out dragging bits of
rubbish, and past these goes the heavy
traffic of the workers, who take wing so
speedily that thev show only for a second
as a diminishing, glittering speck against the
sky. Those returning come down slowly,
drop heavily on to the board, and, weary
from a long flight with a heavy cargo aboard,
crawl slowfly inside.
* * * *
“LI.”: There are mineral and pastoral
possibilities in the no-man’s land round
about the Central W.A. border. According
to the A.I.M. map, this country extends
north, south, east and west 600 miles, per-
manently uninhabited by a single white man.
Several geologists and a score of prospec-
tors have penetrated it here and there. Frank
Green, of the second Lasseter expedition,
reports having gone over miles of granite,
quartz and ironstone outcrops, which it
would take years to prospect properly. Mem-
bers of both the Lasseter expeditions found
large areas of good grass country, especially
the second expedition, which by trying a
different route escaped the desert country.
A number of waterholes of considerable ex-
tent was found, and the wild men of the
region showed the party numerous localities
in which water could be dug at a depth of
several feet.
FENCES IN THE BUSH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As I seek in vain for shelter from the sun
when I am weary,
While the heat waves dance and flicker
like the fringes of a blaze,
Bare and rigid run the fences, on the black
soil dull and dreary,
Leading straight and ever onward till
they’re hidden in the haze. .
Busty post-and-wire fences, without curve
or bend or turning,
Where the west wind wails its dirges whan
the grass and water fail.
And my thoughts drift back to childhood
with a sentimental yearning
For the old-time dog-leg fences and the
sturdy post and rail.
I remember well the mountains, with their
lofty peaks a-tower,
And the green grass in the valleys where
the stringybarks grew tall,
And the golden honeysuckle on the slopes
of hills a-flower,
But the crude old moss-grown fences I
remember best of all;
They were gnarled and crooked fences where
the posts were frail and drooping
And the summer suns and winter rains
had warped and bent them back,
And left them bending low, like men with
care and old age stooping.
And here and there a gap that marked
Time’s merciless attack.
Down the lanes with picket fences, often
overgrown with hedges,
The overlanding drovers of the old days
used to camp,
Twisted, crazy, dog-leg fences through the
marshes lush in sedges,
Clad with fungus in the winter when the
logs were always damp.
And round one of rough-hewn timber, that
I think I’ll love for ever,
By a clump of spreading gumtrees where
the shade was deep and cool,
Memories will always linger that long years
have failed to sever,
For ’twas there we ate our lunches in the
days we went to school.
N.R.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. •• •• .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in "The Bulletin"
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Plum Razor Guard
e
w
e
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and iin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 2/9 each, post free.
Sfte PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xvlo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle ' 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case—
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—Jin. and fin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
PUBLIC FINANCE
Until this has been straightened out
private prosperity is not possible.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” for
February analyses the whole posi-
tion, and shows what has been done
and what remains to do.
Current balance-sheets dissected
by a staff of accountants, whose
work is at your service.
No. investor can afford to be
without it.
“THE 'WILD CAT' MONTHLY
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
“Sir Patrick”: There’s always a new fish
story. The latest is of a swimmer at Amber-
ley beach (M.L.) avlio, while diving through
a Avave, netted a herring in his bathing suit.
But this is beaten by the performance of a
motor-cyclist Avho entangled a trout in his
machine Avhile fording a stream, and on
reaching the other side found it had been
nicely fried in his exhaust pipe. Of course
this latter incident happened in Otago, where
nobody ever told a lie.
THESE TERRIBLE TROPICS.
OVERSEER: “What’s matter that boy all time he no work?”
PLAUSIBLE BOSS-BOY: “That fella he no strong, Taubada. I
think he been too long along tropics.”
“T.N.M.” : King Island,
at the western gateway
of Bass &trait, has a
wonderful supply of
skeletons, and every now
and again these come to
light. Years ago a sand-
blow at the south end
of the island disclosed '
veritable cemetery of
anima«S’ bones. Now a
sandblow at the north end
lias disclosed a similar,
though not so large, con-
gregation of bones, and a
few days back one of the
natives located the skele-
ton of a 30ft. monster.
Thrfse bones, well pre-
served, denote a body
about 7ft. in girth, a
spinal bone 6in. in
diameter and a large,
powerful head with jaws
and teeth capable of
easily decapitating a man.
The head hones of some
similar creature were
located on one of the ad-
jacent small islands about
a year ago. So tar
scientists in Melbourne and Sydney have
not been able to classify the relics.
:J: Jj: :jc
“Tiki”: Zane Grey had some excuse for
tackling the giant swordfish with elaborate
appliances (B. 17/2/’32). The striped
marlins have not been long in avenging the
capture of their 8501 b. brother. An Auck-
land launch-owner, whose craft is a sea-
going 40-footer, heavily built, came crash
upon what he feared was the top of a
sunken reef aS his -boat dipped after a big
wave. The impact was terrific, but there
was no sign of a leak. The chaps on board
were mystified till they espied, projecting
eight inches through the fore-deck, the end
of a swordfish’s snout. The fish, a striped
marlin, had broken away, but it had put
its spike, through two thicknesses of very
stout tough planking.
“W.II.II.”: Hearing an unusual commo-
tion amongst the kookaburras, I went to
investigate. One was helpless on the ground
with half a snake in his pantry and the
balance out. The half outside he could not
swallow, and the other part was a fixture.
Five of his mates were noisily diagnosing
his case. The chap with the snake finally
flew into a tree and dug his toes well in.
Another took hold of the end of the snake,
and, acting as a pendulum, swung vigorously
till he dislodged the reptile.
* :J: *
“A.M.R.” : On the island of Tanna there
is a fresh-water spring, called Nalu, whose
alleged magic properties recall the belief in
Lethe. This spring, which until recently was
guarded by a weird crone called labtoto, is
credited with causing anyone who drinks of
its sparkling waters to forget his troubles.
People came from far and near, bringing re-
ceptacles of all kinds for the water, and bear-
ing presents for its aged custodian. Child ex-
change being the custom on Tanna, people
with given children purchased the water and
administered it secretly so that their charges
might forget their original parents. They
always claimed full cures. To my own
knowledge, a native girl whose betrothed
was sojourning in Vila, conceived a pas-
sion for a local buck, and this not being-
regarded Avith favor by her guardians, Nalu
wafer was decided upon as the best anti-
dote. Bought for two lava-lavas, two
singlets and a big knife, the water AA’as
mixed, Avithout the girl’s knowledge,
in her food. She grew cool to the buck,
apparently forgot him altogether, married
her fiance when he came home and is now
the mother of a large family. Our head
housegirl, when I had occasion to chide her
for forgetfulness, earnestly told me that it
A\-as due to having been given the magic
fluid Avhen young. She explained that some
cases Avere rather overdone, and that not
only were parents and lovers forgotten,
but quite a lot of other things as well, such
as the whereabouts of knives, pipes, keys
of camphorwood boxes, yam spades, and,
in a feAV really tragic cases, of buried savings.
HOW IT HAPPENED.
“You'm in a tumble, hurry, Silas!”
“Yes. My old ’ooman just powred kittle boilin’, water over ’erself.”
“Ow she manage do that , Silas?”
“Oh, she said somethin’ that made me wild.”
“Hamer”: Fleas being particularly active
just uoav, a note on the flypaper method of
catching the pest is
seasonable. The, fly-
paper—fhe sticky sort
must be use d —i s
simply placed flat on
the floor with a lump
of juicy meat in the
centre —the juicier the
better. The flea's
ability to scent blood
is as marvellous as its
hopping capacity ; all
the fleas in a room Avill
hop towards the pro-
vender and expire on
the sticky stuff. A few
flypapers will soon
clear a considerably in-
fested room. A cat or
a dog is also a good
antidote to the flea
trouble, the insects
seeking such hosts
Avith joy, but the fly-
paper scores off Tabby
and Tow.ser by having no hind legs to kick
the pests off again.
“Nimity Jane” : Perhaps “Gloria Mundi’s”
grasshopper had a certain amount of justi-
fication for declaring a Avail of ironstone
“black” (B. 20/l/'32) ; but why do the little
varmints consider all bjue flowers to be, so
to speak, tarred Avith that same brush? On
southern Monaro the plague has been so bad
that a large area Avas devastated, and they
even stopped the Bombala train one day at
Jincumbilly. Every garden in their path has
been utterly destroyed—except for the blue
flowers. Delphiniums, Canterbury bells,
forget-me-nots and the like remain undam-
aged where every other plant has been
devoured. The old hands say that the only way
to safeguard a vegetable garden against them
is to plant a thick belt of blue larkspurs
round it. The pink and white larkspurs melt
like ice-cream before the hungry ’hoppers,
but not so much as a leaf of the blue ones
is touched. It isn’t as though they were
fussv about their food either, for a couple
of them have just been trying to eat the
freckles off the back of my hand.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Colub”: The faith that is placed in
potassium permanganate crystals for the
treatment of snakebite is largely misplaced.
It is true that permanganate has the power
to oxidise the snake venom into harmless
substances, but unfortunately in the majo-
rity of cases it is almost impossible for it
to reach the poison. Should the snake’s
fangs strike cleanly into the victim’s flesh
the venom is absorbed into the circulatory
system within half a minute or so at the
most, and the mere rubbing of a few of the
crystals into a wound made at the seat of
the bite is not likely to have any effect
whatever. Far more efficacious is the admin-
istration of strychnine, either hypodermi-
cally or by the mouth, this drug directly
counteracting the effects of the venom on
the system and 'physiologically neutralising
it. Another thing to be taken into con-
sideration regarding the over-boomed pot, per-
mang. treatment is that most people are under
the impression that Condy’s crystals are
potassium permanganate. They are really
a mixture of the latter with sodium perman-
ganate, which is much weaker in its oxidising
poAvers.
* t- * *
“C. Coral”: Re “.Tacky .Tacky’s” story of
the Torres Strait islander Avho acquitted
himself of wife-beating (B. 9/12/’32), funny
things happen in the native courts. Coun-
cillors, by A'irtuc of their office as “Guv-
ment” men, assume many privileges, and
when the community is called upon to per-
form Government work frequently find that
they have jobs of their own to be done. If
there is refusal Councillor .Timmy turns round
and says, “All right, I make Court ’long you
and fine you five bob!” On one island a
councillor passing along the ' beach made
some suggestive remarks to a young girl, who
told her mother. When that lady flared up
the girl was haled to court and fined (under
a section of the regulations) for “carrying-
yarns” and disobeying Government orders!
Luckily a European official heard of the
affair, and straightened things out. “Court
Day” in the islands generally gives oppor-
tunity for the councillor to get home on an
enemy, but the victim always hopes that
there may soon be another election in which
he himself may be put up for office and have
a chance of reprisal. After all, it is only
an echo of earlier days when an island court
was presided over by a white man who in-
variably inflicted fines of so many hundred
cocoanuts. He was interested in copra.
■'f * * *
“Country Ped”: Any clear hot day this
month will see the departure of the migra-
tory sea curlews for their breeding places
in northern Asia. As there is no fixed date
one is fortunate to be out on the bay Avhen
the first peculiar cry is given by, presumably,
one of the leaders. Immediately the cry is
taken up all round the foreshore, and in
ones and twos, folloAving the leader, the
birds mount up higher and higher until the
whole flock appears like specks of sand
slowly drifting northwards out of sight.
IN THE CAVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jenolan Caves they straggled through,
The usual tourist band,
And paid the wonted tributes to
The works of Nature’s hand.
The stalactite and stalagmite
Ranged in their gleaming rows
Availed, as always, to excite
Enraptur'd “Ahs!” and “Ohs !”
On many a scene that thrills and grips
They gazed entranced, pOp-eyed,
And breathless hung upon the lips
Of the loquacious guide.
A walking vade mccum he,
With Avhom you wander round
The madly magic gallery
That’s planted underground.
He knows it like a book, each frame
Of clustered grace that trembles.
And tells you how it got its name
From what it most resembles.
And almost in his voice were tears
While bidding them regard
Beneath th’ electric chandeliers
One masterpiece that’s marred.
“A tourist for some Avanton freak,”
He told, “that damage did.
We had him lumbered, and the beak
He fined him twenty quid.”
“A fine!” there interjected straight
A lady fair and fat.
“Oh, how could money expiate
So foul a deed as that? 1
“To smash that glorious symmetry”—
Her face and voice grew hot—
“He ought to have been shot,” shrilled she,
“H’e ought to have been shot!”
"Too right he was!” agreed the guide,
“Brimful of staggerjuice.
That was the plea his lawyer tried,
Only to hear the Court decide
It wasn’t no excuse.”
N.B.W.
IFORD.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Dihectors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq. i
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 90
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet BM4II.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
Victoria: THE WESTINUHUUSE BRAKE CO. OP AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety f- us -s
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. .. .. •• .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. ~ •• .. •• • • •• 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. • • • • .. .. .. .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
SMOKE-OH!
“Bookmakers Lose Heavily.”
Some change for the bettor, at any rate.
* *
“Palmistry has never been very popular in Scot-
land.”
Of course, in the first place, you have to
drag the hand out of the pocket.
* *
“What does the average man know, for instance,
about the Negus of Abyssinia?’.’ —Sydney paper.
Nothing, except that he sounds good to
drink.
* *
“All he had in his pocket was a bankruptcy notice
and a letter terminating his employment.”— “Sun.”
Carried his crash in his pocket.
* *
“Famous Cricketer Leaves, Second Wife.”
Obviously a believer in the off theory.
“After one race meeting he had only a threepenny
bit for his fare home.”— Bankruptcy case.
Still lie got home on the bit.
“The winner of an action for damages gives a
peal of joy.”
The loser just gives notice of appeal.
EN SUITE.
“Her clothes arc cut by the best people
in town.”
“And so is she.”
“At the Communist meeting- heated words between
two Scotsmen led to blows —they had to be
separated.”— Bris. “Courier.”
A case of cause and a fecht!
ALL HAPPY.
Although the special committee appointed
by the “Sunday Sun,” Sydney, to investigate
psychic phenomena reported negative results,
a seance arranged by out-of-work journalists
was eminently successful.
The medium, going into a light trance and
speaking under control, was unable at first
to obtain any manifestation. A sporting
reporter suggested that yellow and purple
lights should be used. This was done, and
the trumpets blared during the stormy life
of the departed were hung with crepe. Fol-
lowing this, faint rumblings were heard from
the direction of Phillip-street.
The medium, breaking into a cold sweat,
made a noise like half a million pounds. She
had only got as far as “Sir Hugh” when,
clearly through the trumpets, came the voice
from the Other Side :—
“Yes.... ‘Daily Guardian’ here. ... ‘Even-
ing News'.... ‘Sunday News’.... ‘Pictorial,’
t 00.... Roth ‘Pics'.... All happy here....
Very happy.... Happier than shareholders
.... Tell ‘D.T.’ to carry 0n.... Bathing
beauties.. .. Queen of the Underworld. .. .
Razor gang. ... A Sensation a Day.... All
very happy.”
* *
“Plaintiff said her husband always tried to humili-
ate her before friends. Even before they were
married he had referred to her to a third party
as a ‘little blonde heifer.’ ”
And he probably still thinks she’s a fair
cow!
* *
“M. Rossi is one of the three Fashion Dictators.
He can trim a woman’s hat with the touch of a
magician.”— Sydney paper.
At the same time trimming her husband’s
pocket.
* *
“In a lodging occupied by Mabel , 32,
domestic, was found a large quantity of flock alleged
to be part of certain stolen goods.”
— Police-court report.
Down in Mabel’s room !
* *
I’ve checked each paltry penny since the
crash
That brought my bis to wreck.
Ah, how I wish, instead of checking cash,
That I could cash a cheque!
# *
PROCESSIONAL.
“The true heart loves for ever.” Then
mine indeed is true, for I’ve been loving
ladies since that affair with Sue. It was an
infant fancy, but kids can play the fool; I
waited on her gate-post to walk with her to
school. My childish love grew warmer until,
one fatal day, I walked to school with Susie
but back from school with May. May ruled
my heart till Maggie allured, and then came
Kate; and so on till, at twenty, in Maud I
met my fate.
This was my lasting passion I felt my
heart insist; but, like the rest, it faded, and
Nellie next I kissed. Now, musing o’er my
life-tracks, 1 see them, girl on girl—Nan,
Gretchen, Madge and Esther, Lil, Josephine
and Pearl, Gert, Dorothy and Greta, Em,
Brenda, Joyce and Jean: each (for the time
she held me) my only love, my queen.
Marie at length has captured a heart that
longs for peace and hopes (with Daisy van-
ished) its wanderings will cease. Yet though
for fresh adventures the taste, I say, has
gone, the true heart loves for ever—and mine
keeps marching on.
The Frequent Lover.
¥ * *
“Bankrupt said the money had gone at ‘the
ponies.’ He had good ‘information’ but it failed.”
—“World.”
Another example of a man who was pony-
wise and pound foolish.
# *
“The new G.M. is of gigantic proportions, stand-
ing 6ft. 4in. in his socks and weighing 21 stone.”
—Masonic journal.
A monumental mason, as it were.
* ¥
“The average person is a carrier of many different
types of germs.” —Medical note.
Mr. Lang is considering prosecutions
under his Transport Act.
IDENTIFICATION.
“It does not take long to discover whether a man
is a fisherman.” — “Sun.”
You can tell by his line of conversation,
of course, or by watching him sinker few
pints with the flies, keeping on till he’s filled
to the bream. He may talk with baited
breath, or snapper reply to a question that
shows lie’s a flathead; and he always seems
to have his squid in his pocket, although he
only spends a sprat or so. If any doubt
remains, after regarding him from every
angle, you can tell him by the way he slings
his hook.
* *
“A detective says that some of the toughs of
Darlinghurst go through life with revolvers in their
hands.”
Even when they go to Bondi it is to
shoot the breakers.
MAKING IT QUITE SATISFACTORY.
“Well, I’ve left you half my property when
I'm dead. I can’t do fairer than that,
can I?”
“No, except spend the other half on me
while you’re alive.”
man resembling him is reported to have
booked a passage to China on the Swingsea.
It is thought therefore that he may possibly
have decided to attempt to leave the State.”
—“Cautions Chronicle.”
* *
“A waster who pawned his wife’s property and
made no attempt to get the goods back.”
•—Police Court S.M.
He doesn’t seem to have had a redeeming
virtue.
* *
IN SUPER-STATE TIMES.
The !)01st Disarmament Conference met
at Timbuctoo, the Peace Palace at Geneva
having been blown up. Apologies were read
from the delegates of Japan, China, Nica-
ragua, Iraq, Madagascar, Basutoland and
several lesser countries, they having been
conscripted for active service.
When the proceedings opened 14 delegates
sprang to their feet and demanded precedence
for their speeches, as they wanted to get
home before the remaining sea routes had
been mined or the surviving passenger vessels
had been commandeered for troop transport.
When order had been restored, Viscount
Piccadilly said, on bebalf of Britain, that
the business of the most immediate import-
ance was to locate the Peace Army which
was given to the League of Nations when, it
was made into a Super-State. Ilis country
had provided two brigades of infantry and an
air squadron. Since then his Government
had received no communication except unpaid
laundry bills.
Mr. Dribbleseu protested that the
Rumanian Government had contributed a
dozen tanks and had received nothing but
claims for damages for trespass.
Dr. Wen pointed out that China’s contri-
bution of 2000 barrow coolies had also not
been heard from, though there were rumors
that they were growing vegetables in Tierra
del Fuego.
Several other delegates spoke to the same
effect, but were interrupted by a bomb burst-
ing on the floor of the chamber.
When the floor had been cleared of debris
the Duke of Vladivostock, representing the
Super-State, argued that the Super-State was
doing the best with the contributions re-
ceived. A mixed army of 20,000 had been
sent to restore order between the Indian
Government and the rajahs of Malaya. One
or other of the belligerents had cut the
cables and jambed the wireless, so he was
unable to say what was happening, but he
felt sure that the boys would be behaving
according to the best traditions of the Super-
state. The League had sent a steamer to
convey hampers and newspapers, which should
reach the trenches in time for Christmas.
A second bomb having demolished the
chairman a fresh chairman was elected,
whereupon
Lord WooUootnooloo and Footscray said
he thought he coukl throw some light on the
matter. The lost army had been unable to
reach its objective, having been headed off
' by the fleets of the TT.S.A. and the Federated
States of South America. Hearing of their
plight, his Government had invited the troops
to settle in Australia. Employment had been
found for all in the Government Lottery,
Two-up, Tin-liare, Pony-flogging, Night-
“Scotsmen have very broad ideas.” — “Sun.”
It was a Scot, of course, who invented
the art of putting a threepenny-piece on the
tramline to get it broadened out into a sax-
pence.
* *
OVERHEARD ON THE BLOCK.
“She seems determined to have a husband.”
“You can get dozens for 7s. lid. apiece.
They’re not worth a farthing more.”
“But that sort soon' wears out. They’re
terribly unsatisfactory, I always say.”
“I get mine repaired at Oldbird's. Queer
old person that Miss Oldbird. I wonder
what she is really ?”
“Only a remnant. Been lying there for
ages, and quite a bargain, too, for anyone
who wants that kind of thing.”
“My husband has a positive passion for
them. Yesterday he was” :
“Brought home in the firm’s delivery
waggon, C.0.D., if you please!”
“And if you had seen the condition. I
said, ‘Take this back at once.’ Just like that.
Firmly, you know. ‘I onlv got it on appro, in
the first instance,’ I said.”
* *
When reviewing my past offences,
I hare one regret sincere:
Would I’d kept down beer expenses
As well as I kept down beer!
%•
TAKING NO RISKS.
“The home team has already a lead on the first
innings. .. .and should at least win on the first
innings.”— “S. M. Herald” {after NJS.W. had set ■
Vic. 534 runs to win.)
“What appears to have been a deliberate
act of suicide occurred yesterday in the
Mountains,” says the “Timorous Trum-
peter.” “Suddenly calling to a bystander,
‘I am going to end it!’ a man in a car
swallowed what appeared to be poison, drove
over the Devil’s Elbow, and as the vehicle
left terra firma shot himself in the head.
There is a sheer drop of 800 feet to a i*ocky
gully at this spot. A deafening explosion as
the car hit the earth supports the police
theory that it contained a bomb. The body
has not been recovered, but it is suspected
locally that the man may be dead.”
“Entering the straight full of running,
Fastfoot took command, and, cutting down
the leaders, went on to pass the post 10
lengths ahead of Flipflopp and Fozzlelum,
who were separated by a neck. The judge
gave his decision in that order, and it is
the opinion of this paper that Fastfoot had
a convincing win.” — Extract from “Tem-
porary Turf Tips.”
“Some concern is being felt about the
inexplicable disappearance of a business
man who said last month that he was going
for a holiday to a South Coast town. In-
quiries prove that he is not there. He owed
maintenance arrears amounting to £657, in
respect of which a warrant has been issued,
and divers other sums, amounting in all, it
is said, to some £5OOO. All liis money was
removed from the bank some time ago. A
CHAMPION IN HIS CLASS.
“What can you do?”
“I’m the world’s champion professional
lightweight lifter.”
trotting, Yankee-sweat, Hazards and Three-
card Departments, and they were all getting
on famously.
At this stage three bombs fell through the
roof in swift succession. The conference was
then adjourned till the following autumn,
and the delegates retired to steel dug-outs.
NOTHING ELSE MATTERS.
“The vexed question of whether Phar Lap could
run on a sloppy track has been satisfactorily settled
at Agua Caliente, where a secret trial revealed that
the Australian horse took to the mud like a duck
to water.”
What though the patient Chow and martial
Jap
Seem bent on staging a colossal scrap;
What though Jack Lang, with never stay or
halt,
Deeper ana deeper lands us in default;
What though our industries arc all in holes
And. very little thrives, save sweeps and
doles;
What though depression grind and gloom
enshroud,
Still, there’s a silver lining in the cloud.
One gnawing doubt’s removed that chilled
our blood:
Flier Lap (his name be praised!) can run
in mud.


CAN
DA
&
m
m
AU S T R ALIA
o*s
a
The Ford Town Sedan
MPIRE SECURITY
RESTS ON EMPIRE TRADE
95% British and 78% Australian is
this British Empire Ford » »
IHE story of the Ford’s speed, power
and comfort has been well told —
and told most forcibly by the every-
day achievements of the car itself.
Owners of heavy, expensive cars envy
the economy and sparkling perform-
ance of the Ford—they marvel at its
acceleration, its climbing ability, its
capacity to hold high speeds for hours
on end. But do you know the Ford’s
true pedigree—the thoroughly British
character of this British Empire car?
The Ford car sold in Australia today is
produced almost entirely in Australia
and Canada—its British content rang-
ing as high as 95%, of which 78% is
Australian made. Thus the
Ford does its part in linking
the industry of two Dominions
w
—in maintaining the Empire’s security
which depends on Empire Trade.
The Ford is neither a baby car nor a
big car, but combines the best qualities
of both the low price and running
economy of the small car; the speed,
power, roominess and comfort of the
large. So, in this British Empire Ford,
are found just those attributes which
are essential today, when economy is
the key-note, dependability a necessity,
and the Empire’s needs of utmost im-
portance.
Visit your nearest Ford Dealer and in-
spect the latest Ford models. Drive the
car yourself and judge its inbuilt worth.
Prices from £2lB to £315, f.o.b.
nearest Ford Works, complete-
ly equipped; Sales Tax extra.
THE BRITISH EMPIRE CAR
R D MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY
N.C. 54
L T P -1
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Shanghaied Love” (Columbia), at Sydney
Roxy, is a picturisation of “The Blood
Ship,” a very vigorously-written novel, lhe
clipper Golden Bough, under Captain Swope
(Wallace Beery), was a floating hell. No
sooner has she tied up in port than the bat-
tered crew desert. Watching them scurry
ashore in the ’Frisco of the ’eighties, Swope
boasts to Fitzgibbons, the mate, that he has
never paid off a crew yet. Swope’s daughter
Mary (Sally Blane) runs away, too, meet-
ing John Shreve (Dick Cromwell), a like-
able youngster with a cheerful grin. But
Swope drags her back to the ship. Shreve,
infatuated, signs on for the trip, and so does
a grim, mysterious stranger calling himself
Newman (Willard Robertson). The rest
of the crew, including a slum missioner, are
shanghaied. Newman reveals himself to
Swope as Mary’s father, and demands to
know what Swope did with her mother after
he had had innocent Newman sent to gaol.
Thd lady, it seems, is dead. To the mate
Swope hints that if Newman is missing at
the next port o’ call, he will not shed tears.
Everything is done to incite the crew, led
by Newman, to mutiny, in which case Swope
could shoot him down or string him up. But
Newman, realising this, holds them off. Swope,
discovering Mary in Shreve’s arms, bashes
him. Further maltreatment when Shreve is
ill and crying for water causes the men to
disobey orders; but Newman quells the
rising revolt. Swope claps him in irons. The
night before Mary’s 18th birthday, when she
comes into an inheritance from an unspeci-
fied quarter, Swope is compelling her to
marry Fitzgibbons, conditionally on receiv-
ing half the fortune. Shreve bursts
through the skylight to stop the ceremony.
He nearly stops a bullet, too, but the crew,
releasing Newman, mutiny and take the
ship, and Virtue triumphs once more.
Lois Moran appears too matronly to go
spending nights with a foreign count (Victor
Varconi) in a French country inn. But
as Julia Cavanaugh in the other Roxy pic-
ture, “Men in Her Life,” she does so, and
wakes to find the Count and her family
jewels, money and letters missing. “Flash”
(Charles Bickford), an ex-bootlegger, worth
millions of dahlers, providentially arrives.
He pays Julia’s bills, and offers her the job
of teaching him to be a gentleman; she
accepts. He is trying to propose when she
tells him she has accepted Dick (Don Dil-
loway). The scene shifts to the U.S.A. The
Count is there to blackmail Julia, who,
despite the collapse of her fortunes at the
beginning of the piece, lives in sumptuous
apartments, “Flash” intervenes, gets the
letters from the Count and kills him. “Flash”
is arrested. He will not hear of Julia testi-
fying, even though it would clear him,,
because it would jeopardise her approach-
ing marriage. She gives evidence. _ Acquittal
of “Flash.” Her wedding to Dick is off,
so she proposes to “Flash.” Moral: Be a
bootlegger and get gold and the goil.
* * *
Universal follows fairly faithfully the
early incidents of Bram Stoker’s gruesome
“Dracula” (showing at Sydney Capitol), but
sends Renfield (Dwight Frye) instead of
Harker (David Manners) to Transylvania
to arrange Dracula’s purchase of an English
estate. The eerie atmosphere is well caught
in the coach ride to the ruined castle and
Dracula’s reception. Bela Lugosi in these
early scenes is superb as the vampire, and
the scene in which a mirror does not reflect
Dracula is also cleverly done. But the
ruing makes strong men shudder and
wimmen shriek.
* * *
“The Chinese Bungalow,” which occupies
the screen at Sydney Haymarket, has a
plot so attenuated that Matheson Lang,
though he strives hard, cannot make it
interesting. Lang, as a Chinese gentle-
man looks like a caricature of Ted Theo-
dore. He arrives home to find his exquis-
itely-gowned English wife with her young
white lover. Her sister Charlotte (Anna
Neagle) lies, saying the youth is her fiance,
and Lang Sing seemingly believes it. The
youth mysteriously disappears. His planter
brother comes to make inquiries, and falls in
love with Charlotte. So does Sing. H'e tells
liis wife he is sending her away; he intends
Charlotte to fill her place. Charlotte appeals
to boy-friend Richard; Richard rushes to
the rescue with lethal weapons, but is dis-
armed, and Lang Sing invites him to drink.
Riehard suspects poison; however, seeing
Sing drink of the same wine, he tosses off
his glass. Sing then admits one glass was
poisoned—he doesn’t know; which. He had
arranged to get rid of Richard or himself,
Charlotte to have the survivor. A sudden
paroxysm warns Sing that he drank from
the fatal glass. He tells Richard where to
find his brother, and spends the next two
reels dying.
“Once a Lady” (Paramount), at Sydney
Regent, begins in pre-war days in Paris,
where Anna Keremazoff, a Russian lady
about town (Ruth Chatterton), and Jimmy
Fenwuck, a blue- (and cold-) blooded young
Englishman (Geoffrey Kerr), meet and
marry. Jimmy takes Anna home to live
with "his family', a snobbish crew, who disap-
prove of Anna. When Anna’s daughter is
born the family step in and dictate how the
child shall be brought up. An old Parisian
suitor of Anna’s makes an appearance, and
a mild gadding about with him is magni-
fied by the family into an enormous sin.
.Timmy is chosen as Conservative candi-
date for the electorate in which he resides,
and as the family maintain that Anna’s
foreign ways will jeopardise his chances
he packs her off to the Continent,
where already the child has been sent. On
the train journey she meets her former
lover and leaves the train with him. But
she finds that she doesn’t love him, and
rreumes her journey. A train wreck in
w’hich Anna, had she made an uninterrupted
journey, should have been among the
wrecked is the means by which her
second dereliction is made known to the
family. Anna is divorced and Jimmy re-
marries a lady after his own heart. Anna
enters the oldest profession. Years . after
her daughter, Faith, who had remained
with her father, has a difference at home
over a young man and bolts to Pafis. Anna
meets Faith at a party, and, without re-
vealing her identity, saves the girl from a
gent, with dishonorable intentions. Finally
Anna forces Jimmy to permit the girl to
marry the man she loves. Miss Chatterton
gives’ a nicely-finished study of a part which
probably was written for 'her, and Jin
Esmond, as the daughter, and Ivor Novello,
as Anna’s former lover, help to give life to
the very old story.
* X- *
In “Touchdown” (Paramount), on the
same programme, football (American rules,
of course) fills the screeu. Dan Curtis
(Richard Arlen) is a. coach with an
ambition to lift the college team. to a
premier place, and in pursuit of this aim
he compels men to play whose injuries should
keep them in the dressing-room. By doing
so he earns the enmity of a girl. In a crucial
game of the season it so happens that only
one youth can save Curtis’s team from
defeat. He is among the reserves, and is
not being played because a previous head
injury is likely to prove fatal if he receives
another bump on the same spot. This fact
is known only to Curtis and a few others.
The crowd yells for the player—he is a
superb goal-kicker—to be sent on. The
winning of the game means a lot financially
to Curtis, but decency prevails, and he keeps
the player off the field, loses the game and
is hooted by the crowd. For. this deed of
heroism he gets his girl back. The film
would be more interesting to Australian
audiences if they understood the game that
is so painstakingly depicted and could appre-
ciate its importance in the American educa-
tional system.
“E.S.S.” : In the few Australian films that
have been screened the bushranger and kin-
dred spirits get a large measure of attention,
witu a sprinkling of somewhat farcical selec-
tion life, while the rich and romantic
northern fields have been neglected. The
Great Barrier Reef, with its teeming life
and adventures, its sunken galleons and fleets
of pearl-luggers and its shipwrecks, in which
Binghi played a part, would provide plenty
of material if it were near Hollywood. Nearly
every one of the numerous islands along
the coast has a story. We have a real
Crusoe of our own, a far more interesting
character than Defoe’s. Yorke Island was
at one time the property of Ned Mosby,
whose introduction to the Barrier, in
1876, was a tragic affair. He got mixed up
in a mutiny in a whaling ship, and during
the scrimmage an unpopular officer was
killed. For this Ned was dumped on a semi-
desert island, where. he was marooned for
three years, subsisting on fish and birds, and
on turtle and turtle eggs. Having nothing
to make clothes with, he became a naked,
sun-browned “monarch of all he surveyed.
Then he made a raft of drifting logs, and
reached a more hospitable shore. Afterwards
he cruised among the coastal islands, finally
making his home on Yorke Island, whole he
had to become a member of the local tribe
and join in the ceremonies. He married one
of the native women, and his sons, who are
still living there, are known to-day as among
the smartest pearlers around Thursday
Island. Strange tales are wrapped about
scores of other islands, including the adven-
tures and captivity of Barbara Thompson
on Mooralug; of Mary Watson, the heroine
of Lizard Islam d; and of ‘ Buffalo Bill
Robinson, King of Melville Island.
“Cine Ma”: Thring is now engaged in
Melbourne on this country’s first attempt at
a film musical comedy. This form of enter-
tainment was all the rage in the infancy of
the talkies, but the slump was terrific. With
the assistance of George Wallace, who has
done a lot of this sort of thing on the vaude.
boards, Thring hopes to make a do of it.
Others in the cast will be Byrl Walkley, once
of JCW., Lou Vernon, Donalda Warne,
Ray Fisher, George Moon, D’Arcy Kelway
and Frank Tarrant.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
“Tommy Walker,” the best known of the
few aboriginals who now pervade Adelaide,
astonished a gaping crowd the other day by
complaining thus: “It’s a strange thing
that a [Australian adjective] gentleman
can’t walk down the street without being
followed by a lot of damned larrikins.” It
was Tommy Walker who, when asked by
Stock, M.P., how he came to be travelling
in a first-class railway carriage, answered:
“Just the same as a member of Par-
liament; got a free pass.” [lB/2/’93.]
At a leading Sydney hatter’s I [Sappho
Smith], was shown the other day a card-
board shape of the massive skull of Sir
Henry Parkes. It was very narrow in front,
but swelled nobly out behind, of course, and,
regarded dispassionately, it was very like
a kidney potato. Sir Henry takes sevens
in hats, which he invariably gets measured
for, and he doesn’t accompany his order
—as lam told a distinguished politician
oifce did —with the feeling request: “You
might make it a little large and put a stiff
rim inside to fit it that I could take out.”
One’s head—er—alters sometimes, donclier-
know. [3/l/’93.J.
Two Swedish sailors who had deserted
their vessel at Newcastle (N.S.W.) entered
the service of a local butcher as deep-water
touts. Competition was keen, and those
employed in this business often raced con-
siderable distances in their long, narrow
NO ROSE WITHOUT A THORN
CREEPERS, THE UNDERTAKER: “You, Mr. Smallweed, will go in
the first mourning-coach with the corpse’s mother.”
NEWLY-FLEDGED WLDOWER (with a sad, sad sigh) : “Alas! must
even the pleasure of this day be spoilt?"
[“Hop.” — 1/10/’92.]
tender crafts to be first aboard. The two in
question were relatives, Hans and Peter
Olsen. Their relations with the boss often
brought them to his private residence, where
they became acquainted with a young ser-
vant, also a Swede, of whom they both be-
came enamoured. She was not pretty, but
possessed that ineffable grace of disposition
which attracts the enduring regard of men.
For some time she received the attentions
and endpred the gallantries of both with un-
distinguishing indifference. Their common
passion seemed to breed no ill-will between
the cousins. Peter, finding her alone one
night, proposed and was accepted, it being
arranged that the marriage should take place
within the ensuing bix months. One early
morning in summer, about a month later,
H'ans and Peter put off in the hope of board-
ing a large vessel expected that day. Hav-
ing pulled about 15 miles seaward without
sighting her, they stopped to breakfast,
and found to their annoyance that they had
forgotten to replenish their water-demijohn.
Though thirsty from their long pull, this dis-
covery did not cause them any great un-
easiness, as they expected every minute
would bring the expected vessel into view.
Hour after hour, however, passed and still
she did not heave in sight; and their
thirst, at first an inconvenience, became a
positive distress. Rather than hazard the
loss of a big commission by pulling back,
they determined to hang on a little longer.
About four in the afternoon a rushing
southerly struck them, and being too far
out to make the port they were compelled
to scud goosewinged before it. When it
blew over they were a considerable distance
north-east of the port. Heading their craft
homewards they began a long, arduous,
thirst-inspiring pull against a heavy head-
sea. At nine o’clock at night they sighted
the port-light of a large vessel, which was
coming rapidly towards them. It was the
Prince Christian with coal for Wilmington
(U.S.A.). They decided to board her for
water. Fixing his boarding-hook in a ring-
bolt, Peter clambered up the vessel’s side.
He had scarcely disappeared over the rail
when Hans cast off and dropped rapidly
astern in the gloom. He pulled steadily for
some hours towards Newcastle. Resting for
a few seconds on his oars he became so en-
grossed with the thoughts of his treachery
and its probable consequences that he
allowed his narrow craft to broach to and
cap’Size. H'e clung to the keel with desperate
tenacity. As the swell swept shorewards
he knew that if it were possible for him to
hang on long enough he would ultimately
fetch the land, but before that he would
doubtless drop off from exhaustion or be
swept off by a heavy sea. To all the grim
physical horrors of his situation were added
the keen prickings of remorse and a lively
sense of the justice of the retribution which
had overtaken him. As hour after hour
slowly passed his strength gradually failed.
He could now hear the thunder of the surges
as they broke on the beach. A little longer
he held on, strength and spirit gave way,
and he lost consciousness. Next morning
he was found sitting beside his shattered
skiff —a mute imbecile; the horrors of the
previous night had capsized his reason. As
nothing could be gleaned from him, it was
surmised that Peter had been drowned, and
his betrothed mourned him accordingly. Hans
was . removed to an asylum, where he soon
regained his reason, though not his former
cheerful loquacity. To the anxious in-
quiries of Peter’s fiancee, to the continuous
curious questioning of his friends and ac-
quaintances, he maintained an invincible
reticence. Nothing could induce him to
speak of the affair. A short time after his
return to Newcastle, news was received of
the loss of the Prince Christian with all on
board except the second mate and a negro
cook. His taciturnity then wore off. He
now spoke freely of the capsize; said that
he and his mate had clung to the keel for
hours; that Peter had been swept off. and
that, too exhausted to regain his hold, he
had sunk. He re-
newed his attentions
to his mate’s be-
trothed, and shortly
afterwards married
her. One afternoon,
a few months later,
he had put off to
board an American
barque from Val-
paraiso. Reaching
her after dark, he
put his line aboard
and shinned up. Just
as. he reached the
rail a bright glare
suddenly lit up the
darkness, and he be-
held the figure of his
former mate, pale,
ghastly and threaten-
ing, surrounded by a
bluish effulgence.
In terror, he let go
the rope and tumbled
backwards into the
boat. The back of
his head struck a
thole pin. His skull
was fractured, and
he never regained
consciousness. The
bluish glare and the
halo with which he
had seen his former
mate surrounded
were caused by the
sudden ignition of a
blue-light (the ordi-
nary night signal
for a pilot) which
Peter had just fired*
The presence of
Peter was easily
accounted for. After he had been a fortnight
on the Prince Christian the second mate
was killed by the fall of an iron block, and
Peter, whose former experience qualified him
for the post, was rated in the books in his
place. He and the negro cook were the only
two survivors of the subsequent wreck.
Picked up by a whaler they had to wait tili
the end of the season before he could leave
her and return to Newcastle. [l7/2/’94.]
There were two chaps named Gory and
Blanky. They were tramping from Never-
mineware to Smotherplace. Gory was a bad
egg, and Blanky knew it.; but they had
fallen in with each other on the track and
agreed to travel together for the sake of
company. Blanky had £25, which fact was
known to Gory, who was stumped. Every
night Gory tried to get the money, which
fact was known to Blanky, who never slept
with more than one eye shut. When their
tracks divided, Gory said to Blanky: “Look
a-here! Where the deuce do you keep that
stuff of yourn? I’ve been trying to get
holt on it every night when you was asleep.”
“I know you have,” said Blanky. “Well,
where the blazes do you put it?” “Under
your head!” “The , you did!” They
grinned, shook hands, and parted; and Gory
scratched his head very hard and very often
as be tramped along the track. [ll/IV’93.]
This is a pitiable tale of an elopement
which didn’t come off at Brisbane last week.
The male party to the transaction was a
glittering youth recently arrived from
“home,” whose father, it was generally
understood, spent most of his time going
about in his own yacht and visiting the
principal capitals of Europe; and the other
person implicated was a maiden of 18 or
thereabouts. They hadn’t enough sense
between them to walk round a log and find
their way home again, and, as already
hinted, they resolved to elope. There wasn’t
the least necessity for it, as the girl’s
father was the most affable person ever
heard of, but it seemed to be the correct
thing to do. Also they felt that it was advis-
“GENTLEMEN, THE SPEAKER!”
(A Vision of the Future.)
“Mayor Tom Bent and the Council of Brighton (Melb.) pro-
pose to introduce the custom of fancy-dress bathing into Victorian
social life. The idea meets with general approval ”
[Tom Durkin.— 7/1/’93.]
able to do it silently and at night, though it
would have been perfectly easy to elope in
a shilling cab at midday, barring the look
of the thing; and they resolved that they
would fly rapidly for fear of pursuit, though
they knew perfectly well that the genial
parent would only telegraph to them to come
back and get his blessing and receive a
cheque if they wanted one. It was this
unnecessary style which broke the proceed-
ings up. About ten o’clock one night the
bridegroom shinned over the back fence with
a weapon in his hand to murder the dog
if it molested him ; he knew there was no
dog and that there never had been one, but
he felt that his warlike attitude was accord-
ing to precedent. Then he climbed a water-
tank and found himself at the open window
of a sort of back sitting-room where the
girl was waiting for him in breathless sus-
pense. She felt called upon to be breath-
less under the circumstances. He told her
to go out silently by the front door, and he
would meet her at the corner and then they
would fly. Of course, he could have told her
this the day before, or the previous week for
that matter, but it would have taken the
shine out of the elopement altogether. And
just then an altogether unexpected element
was infused into the business, for they both
heard the old man flapping upstairs in two
immense carpet slippers, and the distracted
girl closed and locked the window so sud-
denly that she fastened in her lover’s coat-
tails as he sat in a lofty attitude on the
window-sill, also the slack of his. pants, and
nearly half a pound of the hinder part of
the lover himself, and fled into her own bed-
room. Presently the coast seenjed clear, and
she escaped silently into the street, and
reached the corner to find nobody there.
She waited, and still he didn’t arrive. Mean-
while the loved one was smothering a shriek
of anguish on the \Vindow-sill, and the
father had lit the gas in the room and
deliberately sat down to smoke. By-and-bye
the girl stole round into the lane, and made
frantic signs to the*youth to come down off
that tank, and he made frantic signs that he
couldn’t do it. He had a vague idea of
wrenching himself free at. the sacrifice of
a square foot of his cuticle, and part of
his pants, and the entire end of his coat;
but then, alas, his pocket-book was in that
tail-pocket that was hanging down inside,
and in that pocket-book was the most of his
money and 16 love-letters from the other
girl, and he couldn’t go and leave them
behind. After a while the girl realised the
situation, and flew round to the front door
with the idea that she might release him
unobserved, but too late she remembered
that she had locked herself out, and the
only thing she could do was to lean up
against the house and weep. A policeman
recognised her, and began to ask questions,
and when she explained the horrors of the
situation he had to go into the next street
to shriek. He told four other policemen and
they all shrieked. Just about this time the
old man opened the door, with a heavenly
smile, and let the poor sufferer in. He
seemed to take it quite as a matter of
course that his daughter should be weep-
ing on the doorstep at 11.30 p.m., and he
merely remarked that it was a beautiful
night' and sent her to bed, leaving her in-
tended husband still on top of the tank.
Then the stern progenitor went upstairs
again, and after grasping the intruding coat-
tail firmly, to prevent the owner taking to
flight, he opened the window. He remarked
that it was a beautiful night, and the person
on the tank replied in despairing accents
that it was. Next he very slowly handed
out the pocket-book, and after it the other
girl’s letters, one by one, remarking as he
did so that the writer seemed a very nice
girl, and, finally, he observed once more that
it was a beautiful night, and let go his
hold, and the owner leaped from the tank
and left. [5/7/’9o.]
One of the earliest settlers at Wellington
(N.S.W.) was a converted Hebrew—a kind-
hearted individual who spent much money
in attempts to Christianise the local abo-
rigine beneath his gum-tree. He met with
much apparent success in his mission, and
the fame thereof was known among the
churches far and wide. But one day some
visitors came out to see the congregation,
and put the black disciples through an
examination —which they did successfully.
When the examination was over, somebody
wanted to see an aboriginal
war-dance, and in an evil
moment the ex-Jew set his
congregation dancing. As
they leaped and howled the
old evil spirit came back
upon them, and their new
religion slipped away be-
neath their feet. Some of
them sneaked away and
broke into a store-shed, and
night found the congregation
lamentably drunk on stolen
spirits. When the keg was
empty they came and howled
dismally round the house for
more rum, and the shocked
visitors, looking out, discov-
ered the congregation naked
and fuddled on the front
verandah. The demand for
more liquor was refused, and
the aborigines were shut out.
Then there came through the
keyhole the sepulchral voice
of the biggest disciple yell-
ing, “Oogh! Who killum
God?” That was the end
of the aboriginal church at
Wellington. Next morning
the converts had gone back
to the gum-tree and the
’possum [25/3/’93.]
Early in the ’seventies, in
the Far North, poor old
T had a terrific spree
on the proceeds of a sur-
face crushing, which proved
to be his last. The mine was
exempted from work for a
month. T— — was induced
to make his will, and he left
his share, a quarter of the
mine, to a relative in the
Old Country. When the
month was up, there was no
money to carry on his inter-
est, and as the executors (both long since
dead) could not risk paying £4 per week to
work the share, they tried to sell for £lOO,
with a view to forwarding the money to Eng-
land and closing the matter. But as there were
no buyers at any price, they ultimately
found a man who agreed to work the share
for £4 a week or such proportion of it as
might come out of the ground—provided
he had the right of taking over the share
for £lOO within a given time. In a couple
of years the £lOO had been sent to England.
Two years later the shareholders tried to
sell out for £lOOO, but failed, as the show
only paid a trifle over wages. However, they
plodded on, and have since divided £300,000
among them. [lB/2/’93.]
Nearly 20 years ago “Jemmy” Whistler
exhibited a monstrously Turneresque paint-
ing, catalogued as “The Rocket,” and priced
at £2OO. Ruskin howled at the impudence
of an artist who had “flung a pot of paint
in the face of the public and called it a pic-
ture,” and the result was the celebrated libel
action Whistler v. Ruskin, ending in a ver-
dict of one farthing damages for the plaintiff.
Last year this same “Rocket” picture fetched
800 guineas at auction. A new generation
has arisen which likes to have pots of paint
flung in its face, provided that the flinger
bears a notorious name. Ruskin made
Whistler’s fortune by calling him a brazen
pretender. But then Whistler had sufficient
THE INNOCENCE OF WOMAN.
VOICK FROM THE BED: “I don’t know what
makes you so thirsty this morning. I
am sure you had plenty to drink last
night.”
[Phil May. —24/12/’92.]
brains, experience of human nature and real
artistic ability to enable him to take posses-
sion of his fortune after it was made. The
Yankee “impressionist,” being smart, may not
believe in himself, but he firmly believes in
other people believing in him, and every
believer in anything finds a few followers.
[25/2/'93.]
TO A SILENT GIRL.
When the skill’d fashioner of female faces
Designed your mask he wrought with
cunning fist,
And made a mouth expressly to be kissed —
Not for shrill utterance nor pert grimaces.
The curved, ripe lips—above the rounded
chin—
He dyed the hue of summer’s reddest rose.
Then placed a smile upon them to disclose
A glimpse of white and even pearls within.
Those lips are silent, sweetheart! —but your
eyes
Are eloquent, and they love’s lesson teach
Better than other woman’s aptest speech—-
In their soft light the tenderest language
lies.
In womankind —the world has long con-
fessed—
A silent mouth and speaking eyes are best.
[3O/9/’93.]
The BREAKER.


r
■5
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJF AUSTRALIA LTD,
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell,
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner EFzabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
x N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and ,
Agency Co., Ltd.
**■
PYROX PLUGS—made in
Australia by Bosch precision
methods—are guaranteed gas-tight
and electrically efficient. Sold by
all garages and accessory houses.
Manufactured by PYROX PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE
(Formerly Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty. Ltd.)
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
WATER-ROT IN WOOL.
“Mnrrawong” : “Mulgatown” doesn’t think
much,of mv theory of “accumulated moisture
plus bacteria” (B. 10/2/’32) as the primary
cause of water-rot in wool. The theory is mine
by adoption only; the credit belongs to a
N.S.W. Agricultural Department officer. I
quoted it as the official diagnosis of the
cause and will continue to believe in it
until someone efficiently disproves it.
“Mulgatown’s” notion is that the discolora-
tion is due to a combination of weather,
undergrowth and timber, possibly assisted
by mineralised drinking water.
Last shearing I handled a big mob of
hoggets that had been running for prac-
tically 12 months on open treeless _ plains
in western N.S.W.; their wool contained as
much water-rot as all the rest of the clip.
I could give other supporting instances if
space would permit, but this one should be
sufficient to disprove the “timber and under-
growth” theory.
“Mulgatown” has my sympathy in the
negative results obtained from his. pursuit
of further knowledge on the subject. I
have been trying to find out something
authentic about water-rot from practical
sheepmen and scientists for several years.
Some time ago I sent the Department of
Agriculture a summary of my observations
and investigations and submitted a number
of questions on the scientific side, answers
to which would have helped considerably.
All I got in reply was a copy of an article
on fly-struck sheep, in which some cases
of water-rot were described.
My first experience of water-rot in any
noticeable quantity was near Tarcutta six
or seven years ago, and the owner said he
had had it for years before. The sheep
affected had been running on heavy, lush
creek flats. I have never found much water-
ro’t among ewes with lambs, or in sheep
that have had a rough season. In droughts
it is conspicuous by its absence; nor have
I come across it to any great extent in
light-carrying hilly country. In almost every
case of discoloration the sheep was mud-
fat, having been on green feed or perhaps
a rush of herbage, and the fleece was heavy
with condition. Now it is common know-
ledge that a heavy yolky fleece holds water
longer than a light fleece —the air cannot
get through it nor can the rain drain off
quickly—and a hot sun beating on it gener-
ates an excessive moist heat which is ideal
for the working of bacteria. If those bac-
teria are present in. the dust which has been
washed down to the skin of the sheep along
with the superfluous yolk, the resultant hot,
pasty mass forms a perfect base for the
attack on the base of the wool fibre.
Summarised, the necessary conditions are
(a) heavy-conditioned fleece, ( b ) heavy rain
followed by warm weather, (c) bacteria.
That the increase in prevalence of water-rot
is due to infection has been proved by the
department. The matter is sufficiently serious
to demand thorough research.
FAT-LAMB PRODUCTION.
“Golightly”: With 500 five-year-old
merino ewes I joined rams in November,
again in March, then in July. In May 390
lambs were marked, in August 83, in
January 136. The rams were Dorset Horns.
I have used Dorset rams as fat-lamb pro-
ducers since 1925, and results have been
highly satisfactory. Approximately the
whole of the drop for the first four years
from Dorset on merino ewes was mar-
keted as suckers. The Dorset being un-
doubtedly a poor wool-producer, I disposed
of the ewe lambs during that period, but
through misadventure a few ewe lambs
matured and later lambed to Dorsets. These
comebacks to Dorset lambs commanded imme-
diate attention by their early maturity and
outstanding qualities as suitable lambs for
export.
I experimented further, keeping back a
run of 150 ewe lambs the following year,
and at 12 months old joined them with
Dorsets. The subsequent drop proved the
Dorset-comeback lamb far superior as a fat
sucker to the lamb from an ordinary come-
back ewe. These 150 sheep bred from ordi-
nary merino ewes by flock Dorset Horn
ranis were carefully examined at shearing
time. Approximately 25 p.c. were poor wool-
producers, 25 p.c. were fair, 50 p.c. were
equal to the ordinary merino-comeback ewe.
This year I have withheld from sale the
whole ewe portion of my Dorset-merino first
cross lambs, and will class them for wool
production at shearing-time, keeping those
that throw to the merino and marketing
those which throw to the Dorset. Provided
the foregoing results are sustained, it would
appear there is a greater opportunity to
utilise Dorset rams on ordinary merino
ewes for fat-lamb production than has been
anticipated. The Dorset-merino first cross
ewe will mate early.
THE BRINDLEY FOOTROT CURE.
“IT. Murray” : With the exception of the
carbon-tetrachloride remedy for fluke, no dis-
covery has meant so much to the sheepman
as the discovery by Mr. J. Brindley, Upper
Murray, of a cheap and simple method not
only of preventing footrot but of eradicating
it when present. Mr. Brindley’s method is,
shortly, to make a small puddle-hole in front
of each salt-trough, in which a few pounds
of bluestone is dissolved. In case of the soil
in the bottom of the shallow hole being too
porous to pug up, a few shovelfuls of good,
sticky clay are brought and dumped therein.
These holes, in any but the driest weather,
will usually keep themselves muddy, enough ;
but in any case it is small trouble to put a
bucket or’two of water therein when going
the rounds.
Mr Brindley claims not only to have kept
his own flecks' free from footrot, but to have
cured infected purchases without any atten-
tion in the way of paring and the like. And.
having known him for over 30 years, I am
sure that he is to be believed in any state-
ment he may make about sheep and their
treatment.
TICKS AND DIPPING.
“Longo”: I agree with “Bov.” (B.
3/2/’32) that we needn’t worry much about
the buffalo-fly, but not as to dipping being
ineffective.' The cost of dipping on huge
N.T. runs may be prohibitive, but such. is
certainly not the case in either the grazing
or dairying areas of Queensland, in which
there are 4473 registered dips.
Tick arrived in the South Burnett in 1909
We dairymen inoculated what were left of
our stock after the resultant wave of red :
water, and built dips. To-day the Wondai
district (tick-infested) has a greater number
of stud dairy herds—A.l.S., Friesian and
Jersey—than any other district in the
State. The Wondai butter factory’s output
in December was 145 tons, that of the
Murgon factory (8 miles away) 315 tons,
that of the Kingaroy factory (distant 20
miles) 201 tons. My herd of 50 milkers
has often been grazing in the usual Rhodes
grass paddock at 8 a.m., after having been
through the adjacent co-operatively owned
din (dipping charge, Id. per head).. and no
reduction in the yield at the evening mim-
ing. For 20 years tick has caused us little
inconvenience or loss; our trouble is with
the efforts of the Stock Department to
“cleanse” our district, which it has declared
a “Cleansing Area.”' We dip our stock
whenever necessary, and don t demur at the
regulation that travelling stock must be
clear of ticks; but when an inspector enters
your paddock and orders you to dip your
stock at your own risk and expense, and
then so frequently that they lose the immu-
nity to redwater and become infected by
stock which roam the roads —well!
In IT.S.A.. with the help of long cold
winters, districts have been cleared of ticks;
but not so in Australia. Outbreaks on the
Darling Downs have been quelled because
ticks, if conveyed there, will live only in
the short wet season. In the cow country
of the Richmond and Tweed Rivers (N.S.W.)
in 1900 ticks strayed in from over the border.
Compulsory dippings were ordered arid ad-
ministered'by inspectors who were almost as
numerous as the ticks. To-day. after expen-
diture of, something like a million by the
Stock Department alone, there is redwater
amongst cattle on the Tweed*, there are ticks
on the Richmond, and extensive tick out-
breaks have occurred on the Clarence River,
further south. , ~
The stockowners of Queensland and N. S.
Wales will be behind any Government which
tackles the tick problem in such a way as
to make success possible. Meanwhile
Northern Rivers (N.S.W.) cattlemen would
be well advised to have their stock inocu-
lated against redwater.
FEEDING CALVES.
“Mulyan”: Scouring and other ailments
of poddy calves are, as a rule, results of
uncleanliness and careless feeding. Many
dairymen give milk to the calves in vessels
and troughs that rarely get any more clean-
ing than a hurried swish out with cold
water. Such a wash is useless against the
swarms of germs that collect in anything
that has contained milk. To keep the
calves healthy, troughs, dishes or buckets
should be well scalded every day, prefer-
ably directly after use, and protected from
fowls and ducks, which, in many places,
prospect about and in them after the calves
have finished. Dirty feeding doesn’t answer
with calves or pigs.
A common fault is putting the young calf
too soon on to skim-milk. Its first meals
should be its mother’s milk, or the milk
of a cow that has just calved. This milk
is no use for anything else for a couple of
days, but it is nature’si special food for the
baby calf. It should always be given warm.
Afterwards the calf should have more fresh
whole milk than separated, gradually diminish-
ing the former until only separated milk is
given. If the calf is a weakling, the fatty
content of its ration should be continued
longer. Watering the milk for the bigger
calves is another practice that doesn’t benefit
the calf, even at the weaning period, when
it has to go from milk to water only. The
most noticeable effects of foods that contain
little nutriment is the podginess of the
calf’s belly; it drinks twice the quantity—
when it is available —than it would from
the cow.
A veteran at calf-rearing claims that liis
calves never have poddy bellies. With
judicious rationing from the outset, they
drink no more than is good for their health
and development, and ho feeds grain as
soon as they will eat and until they are
about a year old. The benefit to the
dairy-farmer who takes good care of his
poddies is that they grow into better cows
and better milkers. Not much can be ex-
pected from a sorry-looking lot that are
mostly paunch.
SURFACE DRAINAGE.
“A. Gistaker”: “Agrarian” in his second
contribution (B. 30/12/’3l) is not consis-
tent. “The soil moisture evaporates, and in
places this has caused the formation of a
hard pan.” This statement has been veered
around to explain (a) the possible formation
of chalk deposits, and (b) the cementation
of colloids by the action of lime solutions —
of which little is known.
Soil moisture evaporates at the surface,
and on the surface soil you find the remains
of the soluble mineral salts—for example,
inland salt incrustations.
If “Agrarian” can find any dolomite on
the crabholes of the Wimmera or north-
east Victoria, I’ll go “He.” And the only
froth I have seen round about crabholes
is that on a glass of a common product of
fermentation. With all due respect to the
rev. gentleman quoted, I reiterate that the
word “fermentation,” as used by “Agrarian,”
is wrong. It does not bother me at all to be
told that magnesia and lime might be in
suspension, and make the water look milky,
but it would bother me if I saw it in nature.
However, it will bother ‘‘Agrarian” to make
any stagnant pool look milky by the addition
of either lime or magnesia—a well-known
method used on the farm to clarify the dam.
Of course, in quoting lime and magnesia
“Agrarian” means the respective carbonates,
although I should like to hear details from
“Agrarian” on the “super.” and sulphide
business. I suggest, whilst agreeing entirely
with the gospel of surface, ditch and under-
ground drainage, that “Agrarian” should
stick to his practice and leave theory to take
care of itself.
MANURING BANANAS.
“Azac”: The banana industry will make
the longest stride in its progressive march
when growers in general use fertilisers
Neglect of this side of banana-growing _is
just another instance of how we have copied
the slipshod methods employed in other
countries, where the practice is to establish
plantations on the richest land available,
and as soon as production begins to fall off.
due to exhaustion of the soil, replant on a
new area. N. S. Wales has no unlimited
area of good banana land, and prices asked
make, it impossible to shift to new ground
every few years. Growers, therefore, must
necessarily aim at a system of permanent
agriculture, and this is only made possible by
using fertilisers to replace each year the
main plant foods —potash, phosphoric acid
and nitrogen—removed from the soil.
The banana is a voracious feeder; it has to
be to produce such a weight of fruit per acre,
to say nothing of the stem and leaf growth.
Of course the bulk of the latter is returned
to the soil as trash, but not so the tons
of plant foods that went into the bananas.
With such a heavy drain on the soil, it is
not surprising that many plantations, even
those on comparatively rich soil, become
unprofitable after about six years. On the
other hand, plantations that have been in-
telligently fertilised often Fear as well at
10 and 11 years as they did at five or six
years, and there is no reason why these
fertilised plantations should not go on bear-
ing indefinitely.
Investigations have proved that impover-
ished soil conditions are the chief cause of
many banana diseases, notable examples
being leaf-fall and cigar-end. The robust
growth encouraged by fertilisers helps the
plants either to throw off or resist these
troubles.
Likewise, investigations in Queensland, tin 1
Canary Islands and the West Indies have
demonstrated the value of complete fertiliser
mixtures, with potash as the most important
constituent. The N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture’s most recent manurial recom-
mendations are for the application of fertil-
iser mixtures containing all three principal
plant foods. Mixtures recommended are:
Blood and bone, lib.; sulphate of ammonia,
IJlb.; super, fib.; sulphate of potash, lib.;
or dried blood l|lb.; sulphate of ammonia,
fib.; super., 111 b.; sulphate of potash, lib.
Quantities given are sufficient for one stool,
and two applications should be made each
year, one in August, the other in December
or January. Spread the fertiliser evenly
around the stool and over a circle with a
radius of about sft., taking care to keep it
just clear of the stems for fear of burning
them.
In addition to fertilisers, most banana soils
are benefited by liming, which should be done
some weeks in advance of fertilising. Dif-
ferent soils require varying quantities of
lime, but 4oz. or soz. per stool is sufficient
or. average banana land. Hydrated lime is
the. kind to use. Spread it evenly and
lightly hoe it in.
SOUTH WESTRALIA FOR TOBACCO.
“Mullalyup” : The committee that reported
to the Commonwealth Government two or
three years ago on tobacco-growing possi-
bilities in Australia gave high praise to
leaf from Manjimup, south Westralia. Man-
jimup has since been the scene of a mild
boom in tobacco-growing, and although there
were fears a couple of months ago that blue
mould might retard progress, owing to an
unfortunate experiment in introducing seed
from a remote district, the officers of the
Department of Agriculture took energetic
action in time. Among others, a syndicate
of Perth business men bought a three-year
lease, with right of purchase, of 95 acres,
partly improved, a mile north of Manjimup
township. Its account of its operations, as
given to the Perth “Sunday Times,”*is very
interesting.
The syndicate started by clearing, plough-
ing and harrowing 20 acres. The young
plants taken from the seedbeds were placed
in rows 3ft. Gin. apart. Planting out com-
menced on September 26, harvesting the first
week in January; result, 8001 b. of cured
leaf to the acre —about 16,0001 b. altogether
—and the leaf is of good quality. It has been
sold for 3s. 9d. a pound, giving a return of,
roughly, £3OOO. Planting, supervision, wages,
etc., cost between £45 and £5O an acre.
Profit is estimated at £9O an acre.
Details of costs show that £854 was spent
on seedbeds, super., planting, weeding (a
scuffler was kept going between the rows),
harvesting and curing. Rent took £l5O and
£lOO was allowed for managerial expenses.
On curing-barns £446 was laid out. but this
is reckoned capital expenditure. The syndi-
cate proposes to expand into a company and
to put in 40 acres of plants next spring.
The Westralia n Government has vast
tracts of Crown land in south Westralia
which are probably as suitable for tobacco-
growing as Manjimup—if climatic condi-
tions are. favorable the plant will thrive on
rather poor sandy soil. It would pay the
Government to make a present of bits of
this land to people who are prepared to give
tobacco-growing a “fly.” If it made out and
advertised a list of suitable blocks, which
could be taken up on conditional purchase,
it would get heans of inquiries from other
cities as well as Perth.
TWO THOUSAND HINTS FOR THE
FARM.
In the past six years thousands of handy
hints for the farmer and his wife have been
printed in the “Land” pages of The Bulle-
tin. In order to bring these together, along
with the pages and pages of useful informa-
tion communicated by Agricultural Depart-
ment experts, vets., successful farmers,
breeders and others. The Bulletin will
next month publish “Handy Hints for the
Farm.” It will contain about 150,000 words
—that is to say, it will hold as much read-
ing as two ordinary seven-and-sixpenny
novels. And it will be sold for Is. There
can be no profit in it for the publishers at
this price; but it will help thousands of
farmers at a time when they want all the
help their friends can give them.
The book will have a quick-find index;
and besides the most carefully gathered in-
formation from the “Land” pages it will
have some “Kitchen and Dairy” helps from
the “Woman’s Mirror” and a useful chapter
on “First Aid” in cases of accident, etc.
(Land page continued on page 26.)


29
P«
Soothin g suppleness
for tired feet
Amazing the lightness. . . .the
restful comfort.... of this
pliant Abbey Shoe. Low-cut,
with no toecap .... nothing to
cause stiffness. . . .it is built in
an arch over the instep. It
laces without the least strain.
And it wears extra we 11.... the
sole is made of leather selected
for toughness as well as flexi-
bility. A shoe like this is the
best preventive of corns and
other foot troubles.
Three Widths per Size
ORDER BY POST. Both full and
half sizes available-—each in narrow,
medium or wide fittings. Specify
width and length. Ask also for the
correct Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d. per tin), or a convenient clean-
ing outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 38/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 36/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 2C9
Legal Notices.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND.
Hamilton District.
No. 585.
In Divorcb.
To FLORENCE CHRISTIE STEVENSON formerly
of Hamilton Married Woman.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Hamil-
ton citing you to appear and answer the Petition
of Edward George Stevenson wherein he prays' for
a divorce from you on the grounds of desertion and
such Citation intimates that in default of your
so doing the Court will proceed to hear the said i
Petition and to pronounce sentence therein notwith-
standing your absence. AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that for the purposes aforesaid you are
within forty-two (42) days after the date of this
publication to attend in person or by your solicitor
at the Supreme Court at Hamilton and therein enter
an appearance without such you will not be allowed
to address the Court at any stage of the proceedings.
A copy of the said Citation and Petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same at
the Supreme Court Office at Hamilton.
Dated at Hamilton this 10th day of February, 1932.
G. S. CLARK,
Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested tb forward to her the foregoing advertise-
ment.
Mr. WALTER JOHN KING is the solicitor for the
Petitioner; his address for service is at the Offices
of Messrs King and McCaw, Solicitors, Booth and
Chapman’s Buildings, Victoria Street, Hamilton.
'T’O the child of the first marriage of
JAMES GLOVER who died at Waipori
in New Zealand on the 16th October
1870 to the children of such child and
to all persons claiming- by through or
under such child or children.
PURSUANT to an order made on the Bth
day of February 1932 by the Supreme Court
of New Zealand you are hereby called upoh
to send in to the undersigned on or before
the 30tli April 1932 your claims to the
estate of GEORGE GLOVER who died at
Invercargill in New Zealand on the 13th
July 1930 failing which the said estate will
be distributed amongst those entitled thereto
disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 9th ddy of
February 1932.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know,
RADIO B BATTERIES
o< TORCH REFILLS v
7\[eu) a ' e,rs '
It’s his due
•o• • •
You may have no desire
to see your son a Jack
Dempsey or a Primo
Carn e r a. . . . but you
owe him the right of a
knowledge of the noble
art of self-d efen c e.
Such knowledge begets
confidence.... infuses a
natural manly courage
in the growing boy. ...
the youth.... and the
man.
Mick Simmons feature
A Special Series of
BOYS’ BOXING
GLOVES
Napa Leather, laced palms, well-
made and finished, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6
BOYS’ PUNCHING
BALLS
10/6, 13/6
12/6, 15/6
Army Model
Expert Model
PATENT SPRING
GRIP DUMB-BELLS
Boys’, 13/6; Youths’, 16/6; Men’s,
14/6, 24/- set.
PATENT CHEST
EXPANDERS
Coiled Wire Spring.
1-strand, 6/3; 2-strand, 10/3; 3-strand,
15/6; 4-strand, 18/6.
SANDOW
DEVELOPERS
Popular Model, 25/-; Improved Athlete’s
Model, 27/6.
TIFFANY SPIRAL
WIRE EXERCISERS
2 in 1 Wall Developer and Chest
Expander, 1 2/6 each.
3 in 1 Wall Developer and Chest Ex-
pander and Wrist Developer, 16/6 each.
(Carriage paid on Boxing, but not on
Athletic Equipment.)
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
Mick Simmons Itd
720-722 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“The Premier Sports House of Australia
USES FOR PETROD-TINS.
“Thorley”: Petrol-tins may be put to a
number of uses besides holding water
or milk —though, by the way, unless solder
is used on the seams or great care is
taken in cleaning, milk or cream is likely
to be contaminated by stale stuff that lodges
in the seams. Two in a case, horizontally,
or four half-ones, make excellent recep-
tacles for a variety of purpostes. Cut
along one seam, meit along two edges of
the bottom and spread to form a minia-
ture house; nail the end of a petrol-
case (shortened about three-quarters of an
inch) inside the back, with a narrower
piece inside the front end—and you have
a fine hen nest. And if a tin is cut diagon-
ally across the bottom and the top and
along one seam, it may be opened out to
give two dishes for washing or for use in
the kitchen, a piece of wire or tin being
fastened to each end to make it rigid.
All petrol-tins are not of the same dia-
meter, so that it is possible, after cutting
off’ the top of the smaller and the bottom
of the larger to put one inside the other.
One then has a flyproof receptacle, and if
a trough is soldered around the base of
the inner tin and water put in it, ants
cannot enter. This may be further im-
proved and made into a small Coolgardje
safe by securing cloth around the outer tin
so that it may rest in the water and be
continually moist.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
My draught mare has developed a bad itch
in the hind legs. How can I cure it? —8196.
Clip the hair and wash the legs with a
soda solution, to free the skin from all scurf,
and apply a mixture of- sulphur sub., lib.;
quicklime, 21b; and water. 1 gallon. Simmer
gently until a golden yellow color. Allow
to stand for three days, strain, and bring
the bulk to one gallon. This should be
applied every third day until cure is com-
plete.
What is the largest hay-producing farm
in Australia, and in the world?—-5 212.
Can’t say, no records of this kind being
kept by statisticians. For a long time
Anthony Brunskill, Allonby, Wagga, was
regarded as the biggest haygrower in
N.S.W. and possibly in Australia. At
present very few Australian growers special-
ise in hay.
How to poison mice and rats on a farm?
—BlB3.
The poison now generally recommended
is barium carbonate. It is inexpensive,
odorless and tasteless and is readily taken
by the rodents. One method of preparing the
bait is to mix 1 part of the poison with
4 parts of flour and make into a dough.
This can be rolled into a sheet about |in.
thick, then cut into squares and dried.
Other foods, such as meat, vegetables and
bread, may be used, the poison being mixed
with the material, or, in the case of sliced
baits, dusted on to the surface. Under dry
conditions moist baits are often more accept-
able. Best results can often be obtained
by using two or three different baits placed
together. In buildings the baits may be
placed on pieces of paper or board, so that
they can be easily removed ; otherwise they
can be scattered at intervals near the in-
fested places. Uneaten baits should be
picked up each morning and destroyed, and
fresh baits spread each night until the
animals are reduced. Barium carbonate is
a relatively mild poison, but should be kept
out of reach of children, domestic animals
and fowls.
(1) If a man gives a lien over his wheat
crop before any of the wheat is sown, is
the Hen valid? (2) If a storekeeper takes
a lien over a farmer’s crop, specifies the
consideration as for advances and not for
any specified sum, is the lien legal? —B292.
(1) No. You cannot give a lien over a crop
which may or may not come into existence.
(2) A general lien may exist in certain cir-
cumstances, as for a general balance of
accounts between the parties.
(1) In what parts of Australia do hail-
storms most frequently occur? (2) Is it a
fact that the size of the stones increases with
distance from the coast and, if so, what is the
reason? (3) With what weather conditions
are hailstorms mostly associated? —8346.
(1) In the winter, along the southern
shores of the continent; in the summer,
over south-eastern Australia. (2) Yes,
speaking generally, inland conditions favoring
the creation of tornadoes, with which hail-
storms are almost invariably associated. (3)
Hailstorms occur most, frequently when the
barometric readings indicate an unstable con-
dition of pressure. On the east coast the
clouds from which the stones fall are gen-
erally of a remarkable sepia-colored tint.
(1) How to get rid of bees which have
made a hive within the walls of my house?
(2) How to get rid of bull-ants?— 7927.
(1) Burn sulphur at the bottom of the
wall so that the fumes will travel up the
space between the walls. It may be neces-
sary to remove the bottom weatherboards.
(2) Find their nest. Open up a small hole
about 2in. square in the top of the nest
and pour in about a cupful of carbon
bisulphide and immediately plug the hole.
If this method is not applicable, prepare a
poison bait as follows: Arsenate of soda,
10 grains; sugar, Goz., and hot water, 1
pint. Thoroughly dissolve and place out in
the open in saucers or on a sponge where
the ants are abundant.
My Airedale dog, just on two years old,
though fed on lib. of steak daily, is in very
poor condition and his coat is very dry. At
intervals of about two weeks he has feverish
spells. (1) How can I build up his condi-
tion? (2) Improve his coat? (3) Reason
and remedy for his feverish turns? —8355.
(1) Give him first thing in the morning
on an empty stomach a capsule containing
oil of chenopodium, 1 minim; oil of male
fern, 4 minims; castor oil, 10 minims.
Repeat in 14 days if necessary. Besides the
meat the dog should get three or four times
weekly some green vegetables in soup or
gravy.' (2) Regular grooming with a flesh
glove will improve the coat, and the dog
should get a teaspoonful of malt extract and
cod-liver oil once daily. (3) Possibly it is
due to a chronic form of distemper. Impos-
sible to prescribe without inspection.
The only available water here is so hard
that it is almost useless for leashing. Uow
can I soften it? —8117.
Prepare a 2 p.c. or 4 p.c. solution of
caustic soda in water. Add this drop by
drop to a known volume of the hard water
in a glass tumbler or glass jug, and mix
well by stirring. A sediment will be pro-
duced, and this should be allowed to settle.
The addition of the caustic soda solution
should be continued till no further precipi-
tate is produced. Use the caustic soda in
the same proportion for the amount of water
necessary for the weekly wash, allowing the
sediment to settle and drawing off the clear
water for use.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Valerin”: When one has the wethers in
the race have a look at their horns. Often
these grow into the eyes or jaws, causing
the sheep intense pain, and they lose con-
dition. Sometimes a short stick will prise
off the shell of the horn; failing that, a
strong pair of secateurs will do a satisfac-
tory job.
“Kell B.”: If you writers of “hints” must
mention “ounces” (of turps., etc.), please
give us alternative means of measuring—
an eggeupful, a dessertspoonful, a teaspoon-
ful, or so many drops. What earthly chance
has one in the bush of finding out how much
of anything would be an ounce V An egg-
cupful, or a matchboxful, or half-full is
easily remembered because it is something
definite.
“Dimon”': When the kerosene lamp gets
broken, fit the brass top on to a small pre-
serving-jar that has a wide bottom, and you’ll
still have a useful kitchen lamp. If the
bottom end of the brasswork is narrow, put
it through a thick cork.
“Mulgo”: Young- horses often cause
trouble and sometimes serious damage by
kicking when they get a leg over the traces.
The danger may be avoided by legging the
colt when breaking it in. A loose rein inside
the legs, to rub against them now and again
during the first driving lessons, and occa-
sionally afterwards till the schooling is com-
plete, will get the animal used to the mis-
placement, and it will not play up later
when it steps over the trace.
“Yarcoo”: To check a bull that has become
a confirmed jumper or breaker of fences,
get a block of wood Gin. long by the same
in thickness and chisel a hole through the
centre, large enough to take a trace chain,
Pass hook of chain through end link so as
to form a slip noose to go over the horns.
Pass hook through hole in block and fasten
it securely to chain. The drag of block on
ground will soon make the bull sore round
the horns, and prevent him jumping; if it’s
too heavy the edges can be cut away. After
a lesson or two the drag only needs putting
on at intervals to serve as a reminder.
“Syce”: The difficulty of curing lucerne
in wet seasons and in the late autumn can be
overcome. When it is as dry as you can
get it, make a stack by placing layers of
.straw and lucerne alternately, about 6in.
to Ift. in width, according to the amount of
moisture. The straw will absorb the sur-
plus moisture and a considerable amount of
nutriment from the lucerne. By this method
many a doubtful crop can be safely con-
verted, with an equal amount of valuable
fodder added at trifling cost.
“Yarri”: When taking off galvanised-iron
that is nailed on, place a thin batten or
board across the corrugations for the claw-
hammer to rest on. The nails, and also
screws, can then be withdrawn without
damaging the iron.
“Bloss”: Some cows are too handy with
their tails when being milked. I drive a
nail slanting upwards into the leg-rope post,
and simply hang ■ the tangled brush of the
tail upon it till milking is complete.
“G.J.A.S.” : How’s this for a farm gate?
Cut a straight pole or sapling (in W.A. we
use white gum or yate) long enough to reach
from the outside of one gatepost and extend
sft. or Gft. beyond the other, having the
big end for the extension. Now adze
enough flat surface on the big end
on which to nail and fix, with hoop-
iron or wire, a small packing-case. Place
pole on top of gateposts, and bore a hole
straight down through it and into the centre
of post nearest the extension, box being
uppermost. Drive a round iron pin through
and into post, size and strength of pin de-
pendent on weight and size of gate. Now
fill up space of gateway by bolting two pieces
of timber to the pole and about an inch
from the inside of each gatepost, just
clearing the ground level. To these bolt a
bottom rail, fill space with netting and
strengthen by threading through two or three
wires from end to end. Now fill the box on
end of pole with stone or sand until you
have balanced the gate evenly. An iron pin,
with button-hook top to fit small end of pole,
driven into top of gatepost will act as fast-
ener, enough space being left between point
of hook and top of post to allow end of pole
to pass up into hook, where balance of gate
will hold it. This gate can be opened either
way from the saddle, and will last for years.
“Shecpo”: Hornless merino rams have
been established on Narroway, Springsure
(0.Q.). The idea is that the polled merino'
will carry a heavier fleece and be less liable
to accident when reaching for scrub in
drought periods. Only sheep of high quality
were used in producing the breed.
The N.S.W. co. which is trying to estab-
lish the tung-oil industry in Australia is
naturally interested in the war news from
China. It has GOOO trees up a mile or so
north of Bundanoon, and doing well.
“Sheepo”: After payment of bonuses for
dingo scalps was abolished the graziers’
associations in central-west Queensland
decided to wage a little war of their own
on the dingo. Poison baits were manufac-
tured and distributed at cost throughout
dingo-infested areas. Results have been excel-
lent. “In November and December, 1930.”
says Major Darcy Donkin, “a man shot 37
dogs in six weeks in country that I passed
over the other day. H'e wouldn’t do it in
six years now.” In the tract mentioned
baits had been placed. It would be a good
thing if the laying of poison baits in infested
areas were made compulsory. Dingoes breed
on cattle-runs adjacent to sheep properties,
and gradually work their way in through the
sheep paddocks.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. .
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Ex-service man, married (late 8.E.F.), com-
mercial, clerical and sales exp. in Britain and
S. Africa, seeks employment. Refs. —8353.
Lady (26), Tas., seeking dental attendantship,
will give services for three months in return for
experience in busy practice, anywhere in Australia.
—8326.
Graduate, Sydney Uni., will coach for school, uni.,
public service and other exams. Individual tuition.
—8268.
Companion wanted by leaseholder of island, Whit-
sunday Passage, North Queensland; share small
living expenses.—B3ls.
Man (26), clerical sales and managerial exp.,
wants position, anywhere.—B3l9.
Man, N.S.W., wants position as shearing overseer,
book-keeper ; 18 years’ exp. Refs. —8283.
Tobacco-grower (32), Vic., long exp., wants posi-
tion on shares, Vic. preferred.—B2B9.
To buy Vol. 1 of Milton’s “Paradise Lost,” 1749
edition, edited by Newton.—B27s.
Words of verses “Murphy’s Brindle Cow.” —8343.
Information Sought.
Briefly, what has the War Service Homes
Commission done since its inception ? —S2GI.
Latest report is dated March 31, 1931.
At that date applications approved totalled
41,448; expenditure on provision of homes,
purchase of land for future use, etc., was
£28,086,263; 21,215 houses had been com-
pleted; 34 homes had been enlarged; 5
houses were in course of construction; 260
more were to be built. In addition the Com-
mission had purchased on behalf of eligible
applicants 12,923 properties, and had taken
over mortgages on 2582. Receipts totalled
£10.428,608, of which £5,737,866 was
paid to the National Debt Sinking Fund.
The percentage of arrears of repayments was
only 1.83. The foregoing figures include
the operations of the State Bank of S.A.
and the State Savings Bank of Vic., which
are now carrying out the provisions of the
War Service Homes Act in their respective
States.
I enclose an article clipped from an Ameri-
can magazine. What urc the true facts of
the first and second battles of Gaza as to
number of troops on each side und the
results f— Bll3.
Official figures of troops in the first battle
of Gaza are: British, 22,000 rifles, includ-
ing some 5000 mounted troops, which were
not seriously engaged; Turks, 15,000 rifles
in a strongly-fortified position. Both sides
were well supplied with artillery. The Brit-
ish attack was repulsed. For the second
battle the figures were: British, 30,000 rifles,
etc.; Turks, 25,000 rifles. Latter’s position
had been greatly strengthened, and attack
was again repulsed. At no time during the
campaign did the Turkish cavalry ever ven-
ture to engage Light Ilorstf or British
cavalry, as the article you forward asserts.
Is the Australian bird known as the
plain-wanderer a quail or a bustard? What
are its identifying marks and habits? —8180.
Superficially it shows considerable resem-
blance to some of the small African bustards ;
its eggs closely resemble those of certain
waders; but study of its internal anatomy
confirms the view that it is most nearly
related to the button quails. Peculiar to
south-eastern Australia and an inhabitant of
open country, it is solitary in habits, asso-
ciating in pairs in the breeding season, but.
not forming flocks like the quail. When dis-
turbed it usually runs rapidly. Its flight is
comparatively weak. Its coloration is
mottled brown, with a black, white-spotted
collar around the neck and a chestnut patch
on the breast. It is about six inches in
length and stands upright so as to peer
over the top of the herbage. Its food
consists of insects and seeds.
(1) To what extent is the car being used
by N. Smith for record-breaking on a M.L.
beach Australian-made? (2) What type of
engine is installed? (3) Horse-power.
R.A.C. rating? (4) Maximum speed of
which it :would be capable under ideal con-
ditions? (5) Size of ivheels and tyres?
(0) Can this car turn? —B32l.
(1) The chassis and body, including all
mechanical parts except the motor, were de-
signed and made in this country. (2)
Napier “Lion” VII-D, racing type, 12
cylinders arranged in 4 banks, V fashion;
bore, 54in.; stroke sJin. (3) 145.2 h.p.,
but the~R.A.C. rating is no guide to power
in these days of super-charging. The brake-
h.p. of the motor is 1320. (4) Oan’t say,
details of transmission being kept secret.
If the motor is coupled direct to the wheels
without reduction, 376 m.p.h., the engine
being capable of 3GOO r.p.m. (5) 37in.
wheels, 6in. Dunlop tyres. (6) Yes, since
it necessarily has steering-gear. But it has
no differential, and is not intended to be
turned in short radius.
(!) When was telephone communication
established between W.A. and 8.A., and
what was Hhe length of the line? (2) Has
anything been done towards linking Tas-
mania up in the Australian trunk-line sys-
tem? (3) When was the Australia-England
telephone service commenced, and what
countries can we now get into touch with
by telephone? —B32o.
(1) On Dec. 18, 1930, communication was
established between Perth and Adelaide,
1676 miles. (2) The Public Works Committee
has recommended that when funds can be
made available a submarine telephone cable
be laid from Lome (Vic.), via King Island,
to Stanley (Tas.). When this service is
provided telephonic communication will be
available between all the States. (3) On
April 30, 1930. Since then the service has
been extended to. many other European
countries and North and South America,
whilst direct services from Australia to
New Zealand and Java have also been estab-
lished. The Australian subscriber now has
access to approximately 32,000,000 tele-
phones, or 91 p.c. of the world’s total.
Is there any distinction between (1)
color prints, (2). colored prints and (3)
prints in color?—*: B333. .
(1) These are prints in which several
different colors are superimposed to obtain
a print not unlike a water-color painting.
Good examples are valuable. (2) In these
the outline and some detail are printed from
an etched or engraved block and the color
added by hand. These are so roughly done
as a rule that very few examples have any
value. (3) Picture made by blocks, using
various colors by photographic process.
The flowers on my hibiscus shrubs are
failing to set. What’s the trouble and the
remedy? —8274.
Probably too much feeding is one cause.
Another is the presence of black aphis on
the buds. Give the hibiscus a good over-
haul, spray where aphis is prevalent, and
don’t use manure.
Is there any way to save roses affected
with “ die-back”? It is very prevalent in
the white and pink varieties. —8280.
Cut the affected limbs back to one eye,
then give the plants a dressing of potash
or superphosphate. Before using , the
secateurs dip them in kerosene or boiling
water to clean them thoroughly. Where
the plants are badly affected there is noth-
ing to be done but to root them out.
I am using my Essex car for driving a
4 in. pump, both rear wheels being connected
by a belt. Is this likely to injure the car? —-
8191.
Depends on the load. Examine the engine
from time to time to ascertain whether it
is showing signs of overheating, because the
ear, being stationary, will not receive the
same amount of cooling as it would get were
it in motion.
(1) Is there a difference in the registra-
tion of rainfalls when the rain is falling
perpendicularly and when it is fulling at an
angle, due to a strong wind? (2) If there is
a difference, is it due to the splash on the
cone-shaped mouth of the rain-gauge, or to
the angle of fall of the rain? (3). What is the
maximum distance, under ordinary condi-
tions, at which thunder can be heard over
plain country ? —BOlB.
(1) and (2) A very little more rain would
be caught when it is falling perpendicularly
than when it is driven aslant by strong
wind, owing to a certain amount of out-
splashing when the raindrops strike the
funnel. (3) The interval between flash and
sound seldom reaches a full minute, which
sets a limit of 12 miles to the distance of
audibility.
Is fresh water obtainable on sea coast
by sinking wells a little distance above high-
water level? —8079.
It is possible in certain localities on the
South Coast of N.S.W., and probably also
in certain other areas, to obtain fresh water
in that manner.
(11 The film “Hell’s Angels” depicts a
Zeppelin stopping in mid-air and dropping
bombs. Was that possible? (2) Could a
Zeppelin stop over any given position? (3)
The same picture shows two volunteers being
sent over to bomb a German ammunition
dump in a captured German ’plane, the
colors being unchanged. Could that have
happened? (4) .4 Digger friend in arguing
that it could stated that the A.I.F. was fre-
quently oombed by German pilots flying
British colors. Are there any records of such
an incident? —8172.
(1) Yes. (2) Yes, subject to air cur-
rents. (3) This would not be done. In the
first place it is doubtful whether they would
use the enemy ’plane. In any case they
would use British colors. (4) Both British
and German pilots occasionally made the mis-
take of firing on their own side. Many
instances are recorded of infantry and artil-
lery doing the same, and infantry frequently
by mistake fired on their own aeroplanes.
There is no record, so far as we know, of
German ’planes using British colors.
In a cricket match played in Gympie
(Q.) a ball deflected by the batsman’s
bat lodged in the top of the wicket-keeper's
pads, and was instantly recovered by him
before, coming in contact with the ground.
The Umpire gave the batsman “not out.”
Was the decision correct? —8348.
No. The batsman was out. Probably
the umpire confused the issue with law
33b, which' lays down that a ball, whether
struck with the bat or not, lodging in the
batsman’s clothing shall become dead- With
the ’keeper it is another story.
What ore the causes other than income
which debar people from getting the old-
age pension ? —B3OB.
Applicant for pension must be a British
subject and must have the necessary resi-
dential qualifications (20 years’ continuous
residence in Australia and resident of Aus-
tralia at date of making claim). The Act
provides that “no person shall receive an
old-age pension unless he is of good
character.”
When was primage duty first imposed.
When were alterations made and what goods
are exempted from the duty?— B337.
From July 10, 1930, a primage duty of
2J p.c. ad valorem was imposed on all goods,
whether dutiable or not dutiable, in addition
to existing duties. Bullion, specie, radium
and certain special Governmental and other
imports Were excepted. The rate was' in-
creased to 4 p.c. on November 6, 1930. On
July 11, 1931, certain aids to primary pro-
duction and minor imports were exempted;
the duty on a few other items (mainly aids
to production) was left at 4 p.c.; on all
other articles it was increased to 10 p.c.
Is the registration of births, deaths and
marriages in the Federal Capital Territory
a State or Federal function? If a Federal
function how long is it since the change was
made? —B339. .
Up to the end of 1929 the registration
laws of N. S. Wales applied to the territory.
The Commonwealth Government took ovei
as from Jan. 1, 1930.
A foul is called on a player for playing
with the wrong ball in billiards. Has his
opponent then the option of playing
either ball, or does the ownership of a ball
continue unaltered throughout the game vn
all circumstances? —8187.
The rules provide that, if the striker plays
with the wrong ball, his opponent lias the
right to play with any ball he may choose,
and on completion of his break the non-
striker (the one who made the foul shot)
has to play from whatever position his
own ball is left in.
(1) Can a tenant who has paid no rent
for over a year in N.S.W. be proceeded
against in the Small Debts Court for re-
covery of rent owing after he has vacated
the premises? (2) If so, what procedure
should be followed? —8291.
(1) Yes, at any time within six years
after the debt originated. (2) The Clerk of
the nearest Court of Petty Sessions will
advise,
(1) Can a building be made lightning-
proof? (2) Approximate cost? (3) Fame
of Sydney firm who would undertake the
work? (4) When lightning strikes a light-
ning conductor, is there an explosion?
8260. . .
(1) A leading insurance co. in its rules
for lightning conductors states that the
only way to obtain absolute security against
lightning is to enclose the building in a
metal framework. This can be partially
accomplished by utilising rain-water pipes
and gutters as part of the system. (2)
and (3) E. It. Cullen, Ltd., electrical
engineers, of 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
specialise in this class of work. _ Cost
depends on the size and class of building.
(4), No. The object of a lightning conductor
is to allow the electric charge to flow to
earth gradually.
What are the ships of the Australian
Navy, their tonnage and horse-power? —B344.
In commission : Australia and Canberra
(cruisers), 10,000 tons, 80,000 li.p.; Alba-
tross (seaplane carrier), 6000 tons, 12,000
h.p.; Anzac (flotilla leader), 1600 tons,
36,000 h.p.; Cerberus (motor-boat, Flinders
Naval Depot), 61 tons, 220 h.p.; Penguin
(depot ship, Sydney), 3460 tons, 3500 li.p.
In reserve: Adelaide and Brisbane (cruis-
ers), 5500 tons, 25,000 h.p. ; Geranium
(sloop), 1250 tons, 2000 h.p.; Mallow
(sloop), 1200 tons, 1800 li.p.; Marguerite
(sloop), 1250 tons, 2000 li.p.; Moresby
(sloop), 1320 tons, 2500 h.p.; Stalwart, Suc-
cess, Swordsman, Tasmania and Tattoo (de-
stroyers), 1075 tons, 27,000 h.p.; Ivurumba
(fleet oiler), 3970 tons, 2000 h.p.
I am vendor and second mortgagee of a
cottage in Sydney. The mortgagor advised
me he was unable to pay intirest, and in-
tended leaving the premises. He has now
left, lie is in permanent employment. Can
I sue him for unpaid interest? If not, what
can I do? Supposing the premises become
damaged while they are empty, can l obtain
any redress from the mortgagor? —B293.
As a second mortgagee you are left prac-
tically without redress. When the interest
payable to the first mortgagee becomes in
arrear for not less than two years he may,
under certain conditions, go into possession.
When he has had his cut there isn’t likely
to be much left for you. The covenant for
the maintenance of the property is still good,
however, and with it your right of action for
breach—whatever that may be worth.
What is the National Safety Council of
Australia and what does it do? —5331.
It was founded in Melbourne in 1927 for
the purpose of promoting, mainly by means
of education, safety on the road, at work and
in the home. In N. S. Wales, Vic., Queens-
land and S.A. it issues a booklet, "Road
Sense,” which the police distribute with
every motor-driver’s licence. Junior Safety
Councils hpve been formed in some of the
schools and a Freedom from Accidents com-
petition is conducted among employee
drivers, those completing a year free from
any accident for which they are responsible
being given a certificate to that effect. The
organisation is supported by public subscrip-
tion and sales of service.
Of the films imported into Australia
how many are passed each year without
alteration by the Censor, how many are cut
and how many banned? —8335.
During 1931, 1921 films were imported:
1499 (including 36S features) from the
U.S.; 321 (91 features) from the U.K.;
101 (7 features) from other countries. Of
the 466 features, 26 were rejected (18 U.S.,
8 U.K.), and cuts were made in 159 (131
U.S., 28 IJ.K.) ; 57.1 p.c. of foreign films,
other than American, were cut but none
rejected. Of 79 films (shorts and features)
rejected in the first instance, 45 were passed
by the Appeal Board.
What route teas followed by the exploring
expedition which discovered, the Canberra
district, and who were the explorers? —B342.
There were various explorations in the
locality, Lake George being discovered as
early as 1816. The final major exploration
of the district was undertaken by a naval
captain, Mark John Currie, and John Ovens,
captain of the 74tli Regiment. In May,
1823, accompanied by Joseph Wild, an ex-
perienced bushman, they left Throsby Park,
near Moss Vale, to explore the country south
of Lake George. On May 31 they camped
on the river near the site of Queanbeyan.
On the following day they crossed the Lime-
stone Plains, discovered a small plain which
they named Isabella’s Plain (now known as
Tuggeranong) in honor of the daughter of
Governor Brisbane, arrived at the Murrum-
bidgee River, and after ascending its right
bank, being unable to cross, camped some-
where near Tharwa. During the following
five days they travelled southerly, more or
less parallel with the Murrumbidgee River,
crossed the Umaralla River under the im-
pression that it was the Murrumbidgee. and
on June 6 discovered fertile plains which are
now known as the Monaro Plains. The dis-
coveries of this expedition were followed
almost immediately by pioneer settlement.
Brief Answers.
G.K.: You can get cement mortar tested
by the Testing Branch, N.S.W. Public Works Depart-
ment, by Sydney Uni., or by the Australian Cement
Manufacturers’ Association, Sydney. .. .P.0.C.: lou
cannot sue, but when two years’ interest is owing
you may enter into possession* Meantime you might
apply to the Court for possession; you would have
to prove special .circumstances. The moratorium
applies to the instalments. As to the plant and stock,
if they were a straight-out sale, you could sue on the
debt R.J.G. : Allowing for reduction of interest
since October 1, 1931, the amount owing on December
28 was £785. . . .H. 8.: There is no agency in Sydney.
R.S.H.: The instrument you mention is highly
recommended. Write to a Perth medical-instrument
firm and see what they have in stock, but first ask a
doctor’s advice on the matter... .J.W.8.: Very little
solder is now used on tins and canisters, and this
would not be a profitable line to collect. .. .C.G.G.:
(1) Cowley’s “Classing the Clip’’ deals extensively
with the layout of woolsheds, yards, etc. (3)
“Sheep, Farm and Station Management,” by Pearse;
21s. (post, Is.) ; or Hawksworth’s “Australasian
Sheep and Wool,” 265. 6d. (post Is.), from Angus and
Robertson J.P.0.R.: The causes of haemorrhoids are
very many. They should certainly receive atten-
tion. Modem treatment practically always effects
a permanent cure. There are two or three methods,
varying according to the character of the trouble and
the discretion of the surgeon... .J.H.; In the event
of the death of a male employee of the late Govern-
ment Savings Bank who is single, no payment is made
by the State Superannuation Board to ' his mother
or other dependants. See Secretary, State Super-
annuation Board, Martin-place, Sydney H.E.S.:
You should continue to pay the interest, at
the reduced rate provided for in the Interest Reduc-
tion Act 1931, to the executor or trustee in the
estate until it is wound up and the assets are dis-
posed of. .. . W.J.B. : Having taken the farm for
three years you have made yourself responsible for
the rental agreed on and cannot avoid payment
l y walking oil' the land. Explain the circumstances
to your landlord, or the bank, and endeavor to
make some equitable arrangement. .. .H.L.D.: Make
up the following mixture and spray or slop it
well into all cracks and crevices. To half-gallon
kerosene add a quart of spirit of turpentine and loz.
pennyroyal; or kerosene alone is very effective.
Spraying must be done at frequent intervals over
a period of not less than three weeks to catch all
the hatchings G.H.: Practically impossible for the
amateur to manage this. Notice slides at 3s.
doz., and lantern slides at 3s. doz. are usually
chosen, the latter being used in conjunction with
an ordinary quarter-plate negative. Harringtons, Ltd.,
386 George-street, Sydney, will supply further infor-
mation D.J.S.: Information not readily available.
Communicate with stock and station agents and rail-
way departments in the cities mentioned... .G. A. B.:
For the purposes of the Act “mortgagor” “includes
any person who has guaranteed the payment of any
money the payment of which is secured by a mort-
gage,” and “mortgage” includes bank overdrafts
where security has been given. .. .G.H.G.: Would
depend upon the degree of shortsightedness. If
marked . it is unlikely you could qualify either as
navigating officer or marine engineer... .E.N.J.: No.
T.L.W.L.: Write Principal, East Sydney Tech.
College, Darlinghurst R,E.: (1) Elected Senator
for W.A. in 1901 and always re-elected. (2) Labor.
(3) and (4) Minister for Defence in the three Fisher
Administrations: November, 1908, to June, 1909, April,
1910, to June, 1913, and Sept., 1914, to October,
1915’ and in the Hughes Governments to December,
1921 ; Minister for Home and Territories, December,
1921, to June, 1926 ; Vice-President Executive Council,
June, 1926, to October, 1929. Appointed Minister
for Defence, Jan., 1932... .N.C. : Write Union
Theatres, 251 a Pitt-street, Sydney W.G.P.: Write
Secretary, Air Board, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne
(Vic.) W.E.T.: Brunning’s “Australian Gardener,”
Bs. Bd. posted. .. .A.S.: Arthur Groom’s “Merry
Christmas” has been published in book form. It
can be obtained from Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
. ...F.P.: N0....M.M.: A resident of N. S. Wales
is required to make a return for the year ended
June 30, 1931, for Unemployment Relief Tax
purposes if his gross income from all sources
amounted to £lOO and over. In the case of a non-
resident, a return need not be furnished unless his
gross income from all sources in the State
amounted to £250 and over. .. . J.R.11.: Try F. S.
Hill, Upper Lurg, via Benalla; W. England, Vi arn-
coort; and Henty and Sous, Moriac —all Vic
A.J.8.: Don’t know her address. Get in touch with
the paper for which she wrote. ... E.W.: Unable to
find any record of the incident... .T.J.: Write Burns,
Philp and Co., Bridge-street, Sydney H.G.: First
editions of novels by Louis Becke are worth 10s. to
15s L.K.: Write to the Commissioner of Police,
Police Dept., Sydney C.H.: Get in touch with the
Dept, of Agriculture in your State... .E.W.P. : Write
Bjelke-Petersen Bros., Market and Castlereagli streets,
Sydney W.W.8.: Articles of partnership drawn
up by a solicitor might help to secure you, but the
honesty of your partner would be the soundest
security. If the idea is one that can be easily
copied by an outsider it is difficult, in the absence
of patent or other rights, to see how you can; secure
an exclusive right to its use... .H.M.N.: In ordinary
circumstances a month’s notice is sufficient and the
owner is entitled to possession of the residence if
it is reasonably required for occupation by herself
or some member of her family. Once in possession
it remains with her to say how long she will con-
tinue. .. .L.A.S.: If you consider the interest exces-
sive, you can apply to a Court of Petty Sessions
for a reduction... .8.G.8.: N.S.W. law does not
permit us to furnish such information... .M.A.H.:
Medical opinion is not agreed on the matter. Try
awakening him for a few nights when he gnashes his
teeth and telling him quietly he has done it...,
H.W.11.: Angus and Robertson may be able to give
you a list J.P.: Where supply is for domestic
use only, meter is unnecessary, but meter is required
where water is used for lawns and gardens, market
gardens, manufacturing and trade purposes. The
charge is at Is. 2d. per 1000 gallons less the
statutory chai'ge for rates... .A.F.: 1923-24: Agricul-
tural exports, £14,622,911 ; pastoral, £65,095,676 ;
dairy, farmyard and bee, £5,946,300. 1924-25:
£40,135,510 ; £78,769,210; £12,143,240. 1925-26:
£24,171,702 ; £79,151,712 ; £8,635,251 ; 1926-27 :
£22,943,134 ; £73,518,868 ; £6,361,411. 1927-28:
£20,773,131 ; £79,886,161.; £7,775,826. 5928-29:
£28,163,535; £76,823,552; £9,481,017... .A. A.:
(1) Sydney agents are A. G. Healing, Ltd., 208
Castlereagh-street. (2) Get in touch with Gibson,
Battle and Co., 535 Kent-street, Sydney, who repre-
sent British manufacturers of this type of machinery.
. ...H.C.F.: (1) Dalton House, 115 Pitt-street,
Sydney. (2) Write to the co.—6 George-street
North, Sydney W.G.: Write Agriculture Depart-
ment, Sydney, for pamphlet “Tobacco Growing”....
D. 8.: Couldn’t say without inspection E.M.: There
is no record of the Empire mill ever having been
in operation in N.S.W D.C.: There is no separate
tax for unemployment relief in S.A B. J.: IV rite
Secretary, Air Board, Defence Department, Melbourne.
. ...T.A.J.: Write Burns, Philp and Co., Bridge-
street, Sydney (Many others mailed.)


Blue North
BY
H. Drecke-Brockman.
Synopsis: in 1876 “Handsome Jack ”
Fordyce, a Wcstralian squatter, is
advised by an acquaintance, John
Collins, to leave his extravagant and
discontented wife, Euphemia. For-
dyce sells his place, settles an allow-
ance on her and buys the schooner
flea Sprite. His departure for the
Blue North in search of pearls and
freedom is delayed by six Irish poli-
tical 'convicts escaping through
Collins's agency in the American
whaler Catalpa. Clearing Fremantle,
the Sprite makes good passage to the
Gascoyne River, and lands stores for
Fordyce's cousin, Edgar, pioneering
the district. Through him Fordyce
gets native divers, including Nguri;
and, sailing, reaches Cossack. In
greeting little Sophie, forced by tyran-
nical Ma Gannet to herd goats, For-
dyce raises his hat; she is captivated.
That night in Mark's pub a fight is
averted between Fordyce and Captain
Baia Budson, a brutal pearler who
can get divers only by force. Baia is
very possessive in dealing with Bella,
the handsome barmaid; she is infatu-
ated with Fordyce. They spend the
night together. Meeting again before
he sails, he is casual, but she restrains
her passion only because Budson is
present. Sophie, declaring Fordyce is
the most wonderful man in the world,
tells Bella of an innocent visit with
him to the Sprite. Bella, jealous,
spitefully demands the truth of what
he said and did to her.
CHAPTER VIII. ( Continued ).
THE bright blood forced itself to
Sophie’s face. “Bella,” she murmured
in a half-suffocated way. But Bella
only continued to stare at her with nasty
curiosity. She must have been blind to
think the girl no more than a child! Yet
all Cossack had done likewise; it had
needed a stranger to blow in and behold
the woman peeping from shy eyes, to see
the young grace of her form. John Fordyce
would have been amazed at Bella’s inter-
pretation of his interest in a child, yet
it was natural enough—so far as Bella’s
experience went.
“You’re growing up, Sophie,” she said, a
world of meaning in her voice. “How old
are you?”
. “Fourteen.”
“Old enough!” muttered Bella bitterly,
thinking back to her own miserable child-
hood. Yet what, she thought bitterly, could
a child like that give compared with the
wealth of passion she ached to squander on
John. Wasn’t she yet young, yet beauti-
ful, more beautiful than ever that scrag
of a girl could be? Chains and cages and
soul-stifling she woidd have failed to under-
stand and laughed to scorn, but she found
a satisfactory answer quickly enough in
the nature with which she endowed John
—Sophie possessed the bloom of all young
things.
Sophie stood up. Tears trembled in her
eyes. “I think you are as horrible as Baia!”
she exclaimed, knowing no worse way in
which to express her feelings for the dark
smudges Bella’ had smeared across her shin-
ing pictures.
“Do you? He’s a friend of mine, I’ll
trouble you to remember.”
Sophie was crying in earnest now. “I
don’t care—he is a horrible beast. He
makes me feel naked if I meet him. But
I thought you liked me a bit and you make
me feel worse than he does. I’m going
home!”
Bella made no move towards the girl as
she stumbled out. Her heart still felt hard
and small. In her mind little flames of
evil suggestion gradually ate up the flimsy
superstructure of generosity and decency.
John she longed to possess, but if he re-
fused, at least, he should not find a sweet
and innocent child ready to fall into his
arms when he came in again.
Sobbing, Sophie ran along a rough track
towards the hovel she called home. Gradu-
ally her steps shortened. She tripped, more
than once on sliding gravel-stones, for her
eyes were blinded by hot tears, though the
light of a million stars blazing high and
clear made night transparent.
Bella’s' evil thoughts flowed after her in
a dark stream, but ahead lay Ma’s wicked
raddled face and no less evil mind. Peter
would be in bed and asleep, his faded blue
eyes and old ears closed to whatever infamy
Ma might choose for torment. Awake, the
silly old man yet retained sufficient dignity
to restrain Ma’s tongue in his presence.
Sophie fluttered through the night like a
burnt moth. If only Peter could recover
his mind, if only she could curl up in the
shelter of his arms away from the horrible
things people thought and said! Chaotic,
incoherent, thoughts, more felt than framed.
The moth, attracted by a bright light in
Mrs. Coffey’s living-room crawled across and
stood motionless, gazing in, longing to find
strength to creep across the sill, held back
in the darkness by an agony of fear and
shyness. What did they want with a little
useless waif?
If the shadow of Mrs. Coffey’s estimable
mamma, with her disturbing gentility had
not loomed over that lady’s shoulders.
Sophie might have found courage to rush
in and bury her head on that broad bosom,
seeking protection against the world.
Mrs. Coffey darned her husband’s socks,
whilst Coffey studied the months-old news-
sheet and read aloud items of interest to
the womenfolk. For Mrs. Coffey’s friend
sat in a much-prized rocking-chair, gently
rocking, patting from time to time a bundle
on her knee. Presently she became so
absorbed in the thrilling narrative of the
Fenians’ escape that she forgot to pat. The
bundle resented such omission, and resent-
ment found expression in a rebellious cry.
Instantly the Fenians ceased to exist. Its
mother lifted the bundle to her shoulder;
soft tones and duckings calmed convulsive
struggles. The baby knew he had only
imagined himself forgotten—he was really
the most important being in the world.
He lay reassured and content.
Sophie could see a little crumpled fist
crammed into his mouth, his eyes opening
and shutting like those of a purring cat.
Tears flooded back; the girl shrank into the
night, fearful lest a sob betray her.
The darling little fellow! She could still
feel the soft weight of him as Mrs. Coffey
had put him into her arms. He was the
first baby Sophie had held ; indeed, the only
tiny white one Sophie could remember. Gins
came in sometimes with brown atoms tied
up into koolimens on their backs; and many
a time she had played with the piccaninnies,
so solemn beside giggling mothers. But
although once or twice a white child had
stayed at the hotel or landed from a
schooner with its parents, babies were few
and far between in a country where only
the most courageous of women cared to
follow their husbands. In a thousand miles
not more than fifty women could be num-
bered.
That baby came as a revelation to Sophie.
She felt frightened of him at first, but he
smiled at her suddenly, and her heart
.jumped just as it had when Mr. Fordy.ce
smiled. He snuggled so, his skin felt softer
than anything she had ever touched, he
smelt so nice; lie was his mother’s first-
born, life and the country had not yet com-
bined to sap her energies; her.son was her
hobby. Passionately Sophie wished she
could have a baby, so much better to play
with than the cat she smuggled to bed.
Her baby would, have blue eyes like this
one—blue eyes like Mr. Fordyce’s. In a
flash the two adored objects fused. A won-
derful dream, far better than any of the
others!
Bella’s words alone awakened the fantas-
tic child to an uneasy and ignorant con-
sciousness. Sophie could not have lived
among the people who surrounded her and
been altogether innocent. Peter had done
his best to shield her from the worst things,
and succeeded, for nothing is more difficult
to tarnish than the bright shield of child-
hood. But in the strange way of young girls
she failed to connect what she knew with
babies, and certainly until the utterances of
Bella’s suspicions never had she been in
the least self-conscious.
The half-understood innuendo soon did
deadly work. She felt something shameful
in the dreams she had woven, though why
exactly she failed to fathom. Surely that
had nothing to do with the horrible things
Bella suggested; but an uneasy conscious-
ness for the first time wondered if it had.
Sophie crept home cautiously. Her pallet,
tin affair made of four rough-hewn posts
driven into the earth, with an interlaced
mattress of greenhide which each night left
a pattern on Sophie’s skin, stood in a bush
lean-to which took the place of back veran-
dah. Through the curtainless window she
spied Ma crouched over their one table.
Behind, in dense shadow, Peter snored
serenely, whilst the sinister old creature
gloated over his money. Sophie wondered
what she was doing, but the light of the
hurricane-lantern cast weird and terrible
shadows rather than light, and she could
not guess how tenderly Ma fingered the gold
which alone possessed any power to warm
her heart. Not much more was needed to
make possible her dream—to rid herself
of Peter and his chit of a girl and estab-
lish herself comfortably in a wineshop at
Fremantle.
But where was that little to be found?
Ma knew she could get no more from Cap-
.tain Gannet. She had his all, and so long
as she remained in Cossack she was obliged
to squander the precious stuff on him and
his child. People knew too much for her
to do otherwise! In even this womanless
country, the hag knew her own day had
passed. How could she come by more?
Nightly she racked her brain as her lingers
counted out the coins they knew by heart.
Sophie shivered at the sight of her, she
looked so distressingly like a huge tarantula,
the ghastly toupee fallen awry arid bobbing
as she moved. The girl’s cat, already on
her stretcher, arched a back in welcome,
but its unexpected movement made her
jump; the whole night seemed creeping with
horror. She cried herself to sleep, not
daring to thin,k any more her besmirched
thoughts, but finding a grain of comfort in
the cat’s steady purr and its paws kneading
into her back.
CHAPTER IX.
Concerning the Lacepede Islands; and
wherein John Fordyce finds his first
pearl.
Almost exactly 17 south by 123 east the
Lacepede Islands lie, dreaming for nearly
eleven months out of twelve beneath a
clear sky and in a brilliant sea. The other
thirty-one days of the year cockeye clouds
scurry and pile overhead, lowering, dark, or
in mountains of whipped cream flecked rose
by dye of the setting sun. Little low specks
of land, these islands, yet formidable enough
when the tide drains away in a thirty-foot
drop, leaving bare an expanse of reef glis-
tening wet, creeping with life. In August and
September the clear air is darkened by a
million seabirds, clamoring, fluttering,
alighting up on the scrub in the mingled
ecstasy and desperation of rearing their
young. No sooner have the fledglings learnt
to fly and vanished across the waters be-
hind their parents than turtles swarm up out
of the warm sea to the warmer sand, scut-
tling across the white dazzling beaches like
enormous ants, claiming the just-vacated
nursery as their own. Little specks of land
these isles when the spring tides ruffle high,
but the birthplace throughout the years of
a countless host of lives.
Three days out from Cossack, with a
spanking breeze filling her sails, the Sea
Sprite tore through the water towards the
islands. She had dropped out on the ebb
under easy canvas, slipping past Jarman
Island and all the' other rocky islets stud-
ding the bright sea at the mouth of Cos-
sack Creek. John Fordyce stood well out
in the offing; he was in no mind to nose up
coast among reefs and shoals; chance-heard
remarks in the port had decided him to visit
the Lacepedes, partly from curiosity, partly
to give his divers a treat before he sent
them over for shell, since he felt more
determined than ever, after his introduction
to Baia Budson, to rely on good feeling and
demonstrate the futility of the lash except
in dire circumstances.
Jacko, stationed in the rigging, burst sud-
denly into a torrent of excited chatters.
“He speak see one big feller smoke,”
interrupted Nguri.
“That must be the birds,” said John to
Wilson, and in half an hour’s time a dark
cloud hanging low on the horizon grew
visible from the deck; a huge cloud of
birds, placing the land for many a mariner
long before its low shores loom from the
water. The boys could scarcely contain
themselves, for John had told them they
would have eggs in plenty and possibly even
catch an early turtle.
The sea sprang from the ship’s bows in
two glittering waves, but a heavy ocean
swell decided her master to run up the
length of the long island and, turning,
shelter behind its shoulder from the open
sea. He felt considerably surprised as the
Sprite bore down to see no birds hovering
above the large island, although they rose
in a dense pall over the smaller units of the
group. Surprise gave way to amazement
when, on rounding the point, he found three
vessels riding at anchor on the jade-green
waters of a snug little cove. He had a
dinghy lowered at once and steered for
the nearest of the ships, a barque on whose
stern he read the name Emily. He scanned
the beach as he steered. No wonder the
fhrds had deserted; the place was a hive of
industry. Men collecting guano, men ferry-
ing it back and forth to the boats, shouting
and yelling as they worked.
Aboard the Emily he discovered a Mr.
Geddes, who, over a tot of rum. explained
his business at the islands and the anoma-
lous and intensely aggravating position in
w'hich he found himself. He was a person of
some consequence, Fordyce discovered, a
representative of a large Melbourne firm,
dispatched to the Lacepedes in charge of
the guano-loading. He declared an enor-
mous fortune lay on the islands just wait-
ing to be picked up, and his firm had
obtained a permit which was also a mon-
opoly. What could be better? That was
what one thought, until upon arrival he
found two nondescript barques already in
possession. And no matter how much he
assured the skippers they were breaking the
law and robbing his firm, they refused to
quit, continuing calmly to load up their
vessels. He felt much inclined to go into
Cossack and interview the Resident Magis-
trate. What did Mr. Fordyce think about
it?
The enthusiasm of Mr. Geddes over the
guano was so infectious that John regretted
he had not left Euphemia a year earlier and
stumbled on this treasure so much more
easily manipulated than the gems he meant
to wrest from the sea. But when he landed
with the irate Geddes to inspect the beaches,
he ceased to feel sorry. A squalid business—
and, after all, had he not come away to be
free? Not much freedom in collecting bird-
manure on a wretched island, even though
it were set in an enchanted sea!
How slim and white and gallant the. Sea
Sprite looked beside the weather-worn
barques! John’s schooner was fast filling a
place in his heart left empty of human
affections. He invited Mr. Geddes to forget
his difficulties and dine that evening on the
Sprite, bringing also the master of the
Emily. The crew could go after eggs on the
smaller islands in the morning; in the mean-
time a friendly gathering, and possibly
a game of poker, would not come amiss.
John envisioned weeks ahead with only the
saturnine Wilson, and felt pleased enough
to entertain company on his trim little
craft when an opportunity offered.
Notwithstanding a late night, the Sprite
awakened as the world turned grey at dawn.
Babbet wasted little time on the preparation
of breakfast, so, long before the sun rode
up out of a 'cold sea, two boats had been
lowered, sails rigged, and a meal for John
and Wilson stowed away, together with old
brandy cases to hold eggs. Yabbering the
boys crowded in, mad to be off. As John
took the tiller of his boat, the wind blow-
ing chill in his face and the first rays of the
sun turning the sails to gold, he. remem-
bered days when he went kangarooing in
the Sou’-West, red-letter days for a school
boy, when the black faces of his father’s
boys grinned cheerily as the happy counten-
ances of his divers. The same young feeling
of adventure surged through his veins. He
tossed his hat aside to feel the wind in his
hair.
“Good feller?” he called to Nguri, eager
to share his pleasure with some fellow-
creature.
Velvet eyes rolled response, bearded lips
parted in an ingenuous smile. Nguri’s gut-
tural “Yow, boss!” was as sincere as the joy
he presently took in flinging with deadly
and .unerring aim a lash of seaweed into
Jacko’s grimacing visage. Shouts of
laughter greeted the small man’s plight,
festooned in dripping brown sea-leather.
Explanations flew across to the second boat;
John wished he could understand the jokes.
How good to be alive and laughing!
His eyes were fixed on the islets ahead,
his whole attention momentarily absorbed
in deciding where he should run the boat,
when the thought of little Sophie Gannet
entered his mind abruptly. He saw again
her grey eyes lighting with enthusiasm and
delight as he showed her over the Sprite.
Poor little thing—how she would love a
picnic like this! There was not much
adventure in living for her, apparently.
Amazing how people could be cruel to
children. Was anything in life better than
their capacity for enjoyment, their sense of
wonder at a glorious world, that same young
certainty of adventure which had swept
through him but a moment before?
The thought passed swiftly as it came;
John ran the dinghy close to the beach and
helped the boys secure her. They waded
ashore, the natives tumbling into the water
like eager pqps. Shrill cries from a million
birds greeted them; the land quivered, a
moving mass of feathered life; the air was
dense with winged bodies, the screech of
bird noises deafening to human ears. Birds
fluttered on the beach, objecting to move
even at the kick of naked feet ploughing
a path through their midst.
Low scrub on the island made nesting-
ground. each bush crammed with as many
nests as it could hold. The brandy-cases
were soon filled. The two white men lit
a fire, and, finding a corner unmolested by
birds,' lay with hats shading their faces
whilst their billy boiled. Sleepily John list-
ened to the shouts of the boys, just audible
above the screaming of birds. Conversation
required a far greater effort than he felt
inclined to make; Wilson offered small in-
centive—he probably preferred to remain
silent in any situation.
A score of seabirds were slaughtered that
day to make a binghis’ holiday. The big
naked brown men ran and leapt and danced
upon the beach, chanting wild songs, look-
ing savagely ferocious in play harmless
as the capering of children at the seaside.
They grew drunk with freedom until they
gorged themselves to passivity on half-
cooked birds and raw eggs.
Sun-drugged almost to stupidity, John
Fordyce staggered at length to his feet.
The tide had run out. The dinghies lurched
on their sides.
“Must be about slack-water,” shouted
John. “I’m going for a walk till the tide
comes in. Will you join me?”
Wilson arose; silently the two men set
out down the beach, kicking aside the birds
as they went. The island appeared little


THERE is a widely-spread idea that the
comprehensive services of the Bank are
intended mainly for well-to-do people. This
is entirely wrong. The Bank s facilities are
available to all people, whether their means
be large or small, and no minimum amount
is required when opening a cheque-drawing
account.
Money may be deposited for fixed terms
ranging from three months to two years.
Interest is allowed from the day the money
is lodged at rates varying from 3 to 4 per cent.
Amounts of £5 and upward accepted.
A modern Travel Service Department is
available through any of the Bank s branches
in Australia, or at either of its London offices.
Public Safe Deposits are maintained in Mel-
bourne, Brisbane and Geelong. Detailed
information is available in the Bank s booklets,
“Services and Facilities,” “Inward and Out-
ward Bound” and “The Public Safe Deposit,”
copies of which may be obtained at any of
its branches.
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Head Office: Collins Street, Melboijrne.
Sydney Office: 342 George Street.
Branches throughout Australia.
DROP IN WIRE, NETTING & IRON
Husara
FENCING WIRa
FENCE STANDARDS
WIRE STRAINERS
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIED LIMITED.?-.
Our reductions represent: —
£1 per ton on Plain Wire
£l per ton on Galv. Iron
5 per cent, on Netting.
You can’t beat Q.P.S. We save
the man on the land thousands
of pounds annually. We make
no secret of our prices because
no one can get under them, and
give the same value.
Remember WE DON'T CHARGE SALES TAX .
PLAIN WIRE. —Reduce our 7th Edition Catalogue prices by £1 ton, or 1/-
coil, making Bg. Galv. 18/- coil. Other plain wire same reductions.
NETTING. —All page 12, 7th Edition Catalogue, 5 °/o reduction on all sizes
for cash.
GALV. IRON. —Latest prices are: For British Crown, 26g., £27/15/- ton,
and No Sales Tax. Or by the sheet—sft., 2/5; 6ft., 2/1 l; 7ft., 3/5,
Bft., 3/11; 9ft., 4/7; 10ft., 5/1.
DAMAGED GALV. CORR. IRON. —We have some once-used 24g. Galv. Corr.
Iron we are offering at £l9 per ton.
TANK MATERIAL. —Complete for 1000-gal. tank, 65/-; 2000-gal. tank,
£5/18/-
AND NO SALES TAX.
RIDGE CAPPING. —26g. x 1 2in., 1/5 per 6ft. length. Guttering, 26g. x sin.,
1/3 per 6ft. length. S.H. Nails, 1/- pkt. L.H. Nails, 26/- cwt., or
3d. lb
DOVER COOKING STOVES.— No. 7, 85/-. No 8, 95/-
HIBISCUS COTTONSEED MEAL. —£6/17/6 per ton of 20001 b., or 15/- per
2001 b. bag. We have been appointed distributors of the Queensland
Cotton Board Stock Foods
OREGON DOORS. —New shipment M. and T. and Moulded Doors, 17/6 each.
PAINT. Blundell Spence’s British-quality Paint, all colors, regular price, 25/-.
This month, for cash with order, 17/6 gallon. AND NO SALES TAX.
Crown Paint, standard quality, 11/6 gallon.
ALSO LOWEST FOR— ,
Cement, 5/- bag. Tea. Salt (crude, £5/5/- ton; butchers coarse,
£5/10/- ton). New Era Separators. Cream Cans. Coleman Lamps
and Lanterns. K. Wire. We allow anyone 20% and No Sales Tax.
Arzeen for tree-killing. Anti-bunt for wheat-pickling. Furniture.
Venus Motor Spirit. Nails, 1 3g., 26/- cwt.; 14g., 28/- cwt. Molasses
£5 ton. Sisalkraft Building Paper, 8/9 per 100 sq. ft.
GET OUR COPYRIGHTED CATALOGUE. IT WILL SAVE YOU POUNDS.
WRITE TO-DAY.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Limited
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.
more than a mile long, but the far end was
devoid of scrub, and rocky. Both men
experienced considerable surprise when,
turning into a tiny cove, they beheld a
cutter hauled high on the beach, with a
couple of white men at work on her keel.
“Hello!” John yelled.
The workers looked up, and John saw
two faces tanned mahogany above long
unkept beards. Mahogany also the naked
torsos rising from blue dungarees, lean
bodies that looked hard as wood itself.
John Fordyce and Wilson, in their white
shirts and cloth trousers, their hats brand-
new beside the forlorn felts crammed on the
others’ shaggy heads, presented an almost
urban appearance.
“Hello!” replied the taller of the
strangers.
Beachcombers, thought John; scouring
the reefs at low water for pearl-shell, but
for the moment their boat needed attention.
They had been out now for close on nine
months and had little luck, so little, they
told him, they hardly cared to go in to
Cossack with such a small take to sell;
but their rations were low, they were utterly
tired of living on eggs, and, not having
tasted a vegetable for six months, were
terrified of scurvy.
“If only we could pick up one decent
pearl I’d clear out,” said one beachcomber.
“Why, it’s a good, free life, isn’t it?” de-
manded John.
“Free! Damned monotonous, I call it!
I’d rather be back in the barracks with the
sergeant-major swearing at me. At least,
there’s a bit of life at times there, sir!”
“Garn, Mac!” retorted his mate. “’E
don’t mean it, sir; ’e’s only thet skeered of
the scurvy ’e fergits ter think of the for-
tune we’re goin’ ter find all right.”
“Let’s hope you do,” replied John. He
felt sorry for the poor fellows. He could
count their ribs now they stood beside him.
“Would a couple of bottles of limejuice and
some jam and pickles help? I have ample
on my schooner—l brought enough lime-
juice to serve out by the bucketful to my
divers.”
“That’s real good of you!” exclaimed the
men in one breath.
“But she’s up at the big island. Can you
sail your cutter?”
“We’ll make her sail! Spring off your
tail, Mac! You’ll see us up there to-night,
sir. Holy Christmas! Pickles!”
The cabin of the Sprite sheltered vastly
different company that night. The beach-
combers apologised for the deplorable con-
dition of their only singlets, but not for the
undisguised relish with which they attacked
Babbet’s supper. Under the influence of
food and drink they grew confidential.
“I’ll tell you wot, sir,” said Mac in a
stage whisper. “There’s a bay across on the
coast called Beagle Bay, which you’ll know
by the palm-trees growing round a fresh-
water spring, and we reckon we saw some
good stuff there, only too deep for us,
having no divers. We was saving it up till
we found our gem and turned into gentle-
men-pearlers, same as wot you are, with
your schooner and all. But you’re a good
sort, and one good turn deserves another,
so you go and see if you don’t find that
fortune where we tell you!”
A dinghy arrived with an invitation for
John and Wilson to pass the evening with
Mr. Geddes; John returned compliments
and thanks, but regretted he was sailing
at midnight to catch the tide along the
coast.
The beachcombers, laden with bottles and
jars, departed only as the Sprite got under
way. John sent the Malay seaman to the
helm and took the watch himself, the
course set as directed by his visitors. As
dawn broke he could just distinguish a low,
dim shadow of mainland. He called Wilson
who, after gazing at the coast in silence,
sent for the lead-line. Like the majority
of deep-sea sailors the mate lived in mortal
dread of the land; he told John now that
all hands ought to be called and sail
shortened. At last the mate’s importunity
made him order up the crew; but to shorten
sail he resolutely declined.
The lead gave five fathoms as the head
of the bay showed up.
“I don’t like it, Mr. Fordyce,” said Wil-
son. “It’s not as if we knew the place.”
“I’ve picked it up on the chart,” replied
John. “You come down and look. It’s
a sandy bottom and safe as a church.”
The chart somewhat reassured the pessi-
mistic Wilson; nevertheless he clambered
aloft himself to keep look-out. The mon-
otonous voice of the leadsman calling: “By
the deep, five fathoms,” rose in the clear
air, and the rising sun dazzled the eyes
of helmsman and lookout.
As the sun leapt higher a dense forest
of- mangroves grew visible. Presently
Wilson called down that he could distin-
guish a break in the foliage which looked
like a creek. The Sprite nosed cautiously
along between high walls of green, the tide
carrying her down what appeared at high-
water to be a wide and gracious river.
So high rose the mangroves that little of
the flat country behind was to be seen, but
before long three or four tall palms grew
visible to Wilson.
“This is the place,” he called.
John Fordyce stayed at Beagle Bay for
a -week. Once he walked ashore at low
fresh water bubble up in
mud recently covered by the sea. Dozens
of native tracks round the springs on shore
forced him to keep a sharp watch, yet he
could not help but think what an excellent
place- for a settlement the palm-shadowed
springs afforded. If it were not his inten-
tion to go pearling—but why think of that
when the freedom of the sea called witn
such alluring voice?
Immediately after the Sprite anchored
he went out in one of the dinghies with
half a dozen of thb natives scouting round
the bay for the banks mentioned by the
beachcombers. He took with hini a small
lead-line to test the depths, for he did not
wish to overtax raw divers. They were con-
fused enough over the manipulation of their
oars, as a crew of four was needed to row
the boat, a fourteen-footer and broad in
the beam, especially built for pearling be-
fore the Sprite left Fremantle. The line
gave four fathoms, but the tide had turned
and was running swiftly out.
John took the oars himself, calling to
Nguri and one of the others to go over and
bring up a handful of the bottom. A second
the brown bodies poised, then vanished
into the jade-green water with scarcely a
splash. The force of the tide stirred up the
sand, making the water opaque; John
peered into green depths which betrayed
nothing, and the two minutes the boys
remained beneath seemed an hour to the
watchers in the boat.
Nguri bobbed up first, brown, jolly face
grinning with joy. Not sand, but a small
pearl-shell he waved in a hand above his
head! John pulled across to pick him up;
the other boy rose with ai sample of gravel
and coral clenched tight in his slim fingers.
“Beginners’ luck!” said John to Nguri,
who dropped his catch into the boat as he
clambered to the gunwale.
“Yow, Boss,” grunted the native, who had
no idea what the boss meant, but felt him-
self the hero of the hour. As indeed he
was; the other boys made a tremendous
fuss of him; each was anxious to go down
and see if he also could get a shell on his
first dive. A short spell for the two who had
already been, and John bade them go. In
a second he was alone in the boat, scull-
ing hard to keep on the bank and close to
the boys, though they, too, would be swept
a little out to sea by force of the tide.
One by one they came to the surface, one
by one John picked them up, taking first
the two who had found a shell and so pos-
sessed only one hand to support themselves
in the water. They sat jabbering on the
gunwale, dangling their legs in the sea,
telling each other what they had seen be-
neath the surface. In five minutes down
they went again. They were eager that first
day, so keen one to outdo the other and see
who could stay longest below that John
had to make them rest. He learnt as time
went on that the best diver was not he
who eould go the deepest or stay the
longest, but he whose eyes were sharpest at
distinguishing pearl-oysters amidst the
debris lying on the floor of the ocean. Jacko
fished three shells that very first day; there
seemed little doubt the beachcombers had
been right; this was a good bank.
Elated and weary, John Fordyce returned
at sundown to the Sprite. The boys
sprawled in the boat; the waterbags which
had gone out dripping lay dry as bone in
the bottom of the dinghy with the oysters.
The boys were glad the boss had rigged
up a sail, and no effort was needed to make
the boat rip through the water as she was
doing. They swarrned up the side of the
schooner like apes, trotting away forward
to be greeted with acclamation by those of
their mates who had been left behind.
John dragged off his clothes and dived
overboard himself, in and out swiftly, since
sharks see a white body infinitely more
often than a dark one. Then he cast him-
self into a hammock slung under an awning
Wilson had erected on the after-deck and
called to Babbet to hasten with dinner.
“They were right, Mr. Wilson,” he said.
“I seem to have struck a patch. We’ll
move the Sprite closer in the morning, and
you can take out another boat. You’ll
need to be filled with energy,” he grinned.
“The tide is terrific!”
“How many did you get?”
“About a dozen. A pretty good begin-
ning, eh?”
“Indeed it is.”
“Have ’em fetched up here and I’ll open
them myself after dinner. Lord, but I’m
starving!”
The first pearl-shell he picked from the
little pile John turned slowly in his fingers.
Something of the same thrill he experienced
at horse-racing tingled through him, the
sharp fever of the gambler, wondering,
watching, hoping. Delicately he inserted
the blade of a long knife he had brought
from south for the purpose. It was a hoary
old man of the sea, the oyster he held,
calloused with age, grown over with sea-
weed and marine life, a most promising
case for a gem. Cautiously and a little
clumsily he forced the knife down until
he felt the tough muscle of the mollusc
within. He gave a hard cut, the bivalve
fell apart in his hands. A tiny crab ran out,
scuttling along John’s thumb, but not even
a seed-pearl glimmered in the fringe. He
scraped the oyster away and found as fine
a pair of flawless glistening shells as a man
could wish to see. And they were all alike,
the day’s take. Not a blister, not even a
grain of baroque, only the little watch-dog
crabs scuttling away in terror!
“Oh, well,” thought Fordyce, “I suppose
I am fortunate to strike a patch at once.
I must not be greedy.” But the gambler
in him knew disappointment—the gambler
who had felt a pearl in those first oysters
would have been a good omen for his ven-
ture.
(To be continued next week.)


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Ammon Ra came fully up to expectations
by capturing the Futurity Stakes and
creasing his prize-money totaL by £2500.
Gross earnings of the Limoud gelding are
now £23,153 10s. Being only three years
old and apparently as sound as a bell,
Ammon Ra seems destined to be one of
the greatest money-spinners in Australasian
turf history. Gloaming did not race as a
juvenile, and' closed his three-year-old career
with a total of £12,176; yet he aggregated
£43,100 before retiring at nine years, in
which season he earned over £BOOO. The
probabilities are that Ammon Ra will be
“placed” by his trainer in much the same
manner as Gloaming was, being confined to
•set-weight events of not more than 14 miles.
The V.R.C. St. Leger and A.J.C. St. Leger,
each of If miles, are seemingly at his mercy,
but those may be his only long-distance
essays. Why overstrain a thoroughbred
when there is so much easy money waiting-
in the shorter weight-for-age contests?
Before Ammon Ra’s triumph was regis-
tered, the Futurity Stakes had been won on
six occasions by Maoriland-bred horses;
Gladsome (twice), Soultline, The Hawk,
Father’s Voice and Phar Lap. Betting
on Saturday's contest suggested that, if
Ammon Ra failed, another Maorilander in
Waterline would take the trick. Unfor-
tunately, “S. A. Rawdon’s” prad was in a
piggish mood and refused to go into line.
When the field at length moved off, Water-
line was conspicuous in the rear. Half a
mile from home he must have been 15
lengths behind the leaders. Entering the
straight, Waterline went out wide, by sheer
necessity; yet he came home at amazing
speed to finish fourth. • The Bulletin
scribe feels convinced that Waterline is
fitter now than at any previous period.
Carrying 9.2, he lost the Newmarket Handi-
cap of 1931 to Parkwood (8.13) by an eye-
brow. If trouble is avoided at the start on
Saturday next Waterline ought to bring
home the bacon with 9.6.
Subsequent to his Newmarket display last
autumn. Waterline scored in a division of
Bert’.’Now isn't that annoying, 1"
ff ®
<sert*. What are vnje stopping for?
Beßt:"Someth'n<3s Qonje wrong*
WITH THE ENG'Hs".
sef?T; y/ CAMT VOU WWT TIU.VJS w
G|ET OPP THE NVMM ROA.O *
the Bourke Handicap with lOst. 71b., and
(receiving 211 b.) vanquished Phar Lap in.
the C. M. Lloyd Stakes. Going on to Syd-
ney, he romped home in advance of Balloon
King, Veilmond, Chide and Tregilla over
nine furlongs in the Rawson Stakes. Water-
line started favorite for the Doncaster Han-
dicap, but suddenly-developed illness ruined
his chance, and the gelding had to be turned
out for a long spell. Einga’s form in the
Futurity and her power to begin smartly
make her dangerous in the big-sprint event.
Stephen—trained by Lou Robertson, who
won twice with Gothic —is reported to be
suffering from a bruised heel, which may
prevent him going to the post. Golden Gate
and Winooka are worthy banner-bearers for
New South Wales. Jack Holt is strongly
represented by Gallantic and Umbertana.
As Thurlstone has not raced for two years
he must be 'taken on trust.
Woodcliff Handicap at Caulfield gave a
good line to the chances of many horses en-
gaged in the Australian Cup, to be run on
the concluding day of the V.R.,C. autumn
meeting. Vertigern, about whom 15 to 1
was obtainable, came like a bolt from the
Wue to beat Suznmi by a neck in time verg-
ing on the course record for nine furlongs.
Another outstanding feature was the bril-
liant effort with which Prince Dayton de-
prived Attar of third honors. In the spring
Prince Dayton ran Denis Boy to a neck
in the Caulfield Cup. He is full of grit and
stamina, and just the sort for a 2f-mile.
journey. Madstar, though unplaced on
Saturday, ran well enough to encourage his
Australian Cup followers, but St. Frederick
(who, like Madstar, is owned in South Aus.)
could not raise a gallop, and there must be
solid foundation for the rumors that he is
physically amiss.
Were it not that his connections allowed
him to go out at 10 to 1 for the Futurity
Stakes, Chatham’s failure in that race would
materially discount his classic and Sydney
Cup prospects. Up to the home turn Chat-
ham appeared to be moving as well as Ammon
Ra, alongside that rival. McCarten waited
patiently for a run on the rails, but Reynolds
took his mount to the outside. Carried out
wide, Chatham was beaten as soon as heads
turned for home. It may be that the run will
bring him along in condition, but that
remains to be proved. Meanwhile Chatham
stock has depreciated.
Commencing with the Williamstown meet-
ing on February 1, horses from Sydney and
M.L. have captured 12 events in Melbourne.
Winners at Caulfield on Saturday comprised
Cape Royal, Vertigern, Ammon Ra and
Legislator. Local trainers are apprehensive
as to what may occur this week-end. It
looks like Ammon Ra having a mortgage
on the St. Leger, while Closing Time must
take a lot of beating in the Sires’ Produce
Stakes. Cape Royal, a stable mate of
Closing Time, is not engaged. He won his
division of the Alma Stakes in spectacular
fashion. The natural assumption is that
Closing Time is a better galloper, unless
George Jones did not discover the merits of
Cape Royal until recently. Ivuvera, trained
at Randwick by George Price, ran third
in Cape Royal’s* race, conceding the winner
221 b. That makes the Brazen colt a force
to be reckoned with in the Sires’ Produce
Stakes. However, superior claims are pos-
sessed by Vauntry and Powerscourt, who
made a dead heat in the first division of
the Alma Stakes. Vauntry, on form to
date, is the best juvenile in Victoria. On
Saturday he was not so advanced in condi-
tion as Powerscourt. and, moreover, con-
ceded that rival 31b. These are youngsters
of high lineage, Vauntry being by Heroic
and Powerscourt a son of the famous
Traquette.
For Flemington on Saturday:—
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Vauntry; next,
Powerscourt.
Essendon Stakes: Second Wind; next,
Highland.
Newmarket Handicap: Waterline, 1;
Einga. 2 ; Golden Gate, 3.
St. Leger Stakes: Ammon Ra, 1; Johnnie
Jason, 2 ; Chatham, 3.
When Moss, the newspaper-boomed owner
of Veilmond and Killarney, became asso-
ciated with the Ilawkesbury R. C., it was
hoped that his colors would be seen now
and then on the old clubis course. Veil-
mond and Killarney were nominated for the
meeting held on Saturday, but were not
among the acceptances, though it would have
done Veilmond no harm to have a pipe-opener
for the w.f.a. race at Randwick next Satur-
day. Seemingly Hawkesbury betting is no
good to Moss. In Veilmond’s absence Beel-
bee, the Queensland Cup winner, was the
horse that attracted most attention. He
was a red-hot favorite for the Clarendon
Handicap, but proved a dreadful disappoint-
ment, finishing a bad last. “Touched in the
wind.” said old hands : and the bookmakers
exhibiting Doncaster Ilandicap-Sydney Cup
sheets promptly marked his price back many
points. Barrios (12 to 1), a failure at
Canterbury Park, won the Clarendon Handi-
cap after a close finish with Moallin, another
outsider.
It was an unhappy day for backers of
favorites, who all failed ingloriously; and
thrice unhappy for the owner of David
Blake, who fell in the Flying Handicap and
had to be destroyed. In falling he interfered
with several horses, especially George Talto
(7 to 1), who would probably have won with
a clear run; as it was, he finished third to
Tactician and Charalf. Tactician, a half-
brother (by Cistercian) to Maybe, one of
the favorites for the Doncaster, was at 20
to 1 in a field of eight.
11l luck still dogs the Kelso family, so
fortunate in 1928 (Statesman, Melbourne
Cup) and 1929 (Loquacious, Metropolitan).
As at Canterbury Park father William’s
grey horse Gleaner, trained by son Jack, was
just beaten in the principal handicap—this
time by the Maor.iland-bred Fingra (4 to 1),
who is by Finmark—The Grayling. The High-
weiglit Handicap, the best betting race of
the day, went to Herolage (Heroic—Muci-
lage), from Somnolent and Suntan. Heroic’s
son, another of those tliree-year-olds, showed
a fine burst of speed when Coutts called on
him.
For City Tatt.’s meeting at Randwick: —
Novice Handicap : Koomeela ; next, Town
Topic.
Randwick Stakes: Veilmond ; next, Chide.
Denman Stakes: Gloriole; next, Sun
Eagle.
City Tatt.’s Cup : Strength ; next, Century-
Tire.
Club Welter: Ethics; next. Herolage.
* * *
“Thormanby” : Phar Lap’s connections are
talking about taking the big fellow to Eng-
land if he succeeds in his Mexican venture,
with a special eye on the big w.f.a. events
and the Cesarewitch, the 2-J-mile handicap
at Newmarket, which is one of the closing-
events of the English season. This year the
race will be run on October 12, and sup-
posing that Phar Lap is intended to start
this coming season and not wait until the
next, he will not have much chance to get
fit and acclimatised. For another thing, the
Cesarewitch is one of the biggest betting
races in the world, and for many years the
ideal of the English trainers has been to try
out something good for the big event, keep
it carefully on the ice, and then, if the
weight is right, send it out for a big win.
“Geoffrey Gumbado”: Replying to a
clerical deputation, which came to voice its
antipathy to the tin hare/ N.S.W. Chief
Secretary Gosling remarked that it was
doubtful whether the sport was any more
harmful to the community than the “Sport
of Kings.” By this, of course, he meant
horse-racing, an utter misuse of the phrase
seldom heard except in Australia. The
first king known to countenance racing was
the comparatively modern Charles 11. It
was the chaise, not the turf, which Peter
Beckford (author of “Thoughts on Hunt-
ing”) had in mind when he coined the
plmase which Mr. Jorrocks delighted to
repeat. Since the beginning of time hunt-
ing-; has been the favorite pastime of royalty,
as Assyrian and Egyptian carvings and
paintings show. The game laws of the
early Norman kings in England show how
jealously the royal prerogative was guarded.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Filipino Pablo Dana (8-3) let Wally
Walker (8.0) do the fighting for a time in their
return tussle at Leichhardt Stadium last
Friday night; then he fought all out and
dropped Walker for the full count in the
fifth. Walker’s seconds and many spec-
tators claimed a foul. Medical examination
proved this incorrect, and Pablo got the
decision.
t- * * *
“Tom Cribb” : There is a popular delusion
to the effect that Britain, like Australia,
draws no color line in boxing, and this was
apparently confirmed when the Canadian
negro heavyweight Larry Gains fought a
draw in the Empire championship in London
with the South African McCorkindale,
necessitating another meeting for the title
in March. But the indulgence only applies
to the Empire championship. No colored
boxer is allowed to figure in contests for the
British title.
❖ $ * '}■
Followers of wrestling know the stuff
shoAvn by grapplers now appearing at Leich-
hardt is not wrestling, but it amuses them.
Billy Meeske (14.0) and Walter Browning
(14.14), who met last Saturday night, staged
the usual punching, biting and kicking. Each
scored a fall, but Meeske was declared
winner on points.
The Ins and Outs
“Popping Crease”: Australian cricket
addicts rushed wildly to the nearest pub to
drown their grief when a rumor got into the
evening papers last week that Clarrie Grim-
mett had accepted an offer to play in Eng-
land. Grimmett denies this, saying that he
would not even play League cricket, which
would only command his services during the
Australian winter. Asked if another tale
to the effect that he had accepted an offer
to act as a bowling coach was correct,
the little South Australian showed clever
footwork in sidestepping the question.
“Hotham”: Ironmonger’s feat in taking
11 wickets for 24 against the Springboks
in Melbourne is the best, bar one, for any
Australian against South Africa. The bell
is carried off by Clarrie Grimmett, who took
14 for 199 in the fourth Test at Adelaide
this season. Against England, Spofforth
took 14 for 90 in 1882, and Noble 13 for
77 at Melbourne 20 years later. Wilfred
Rhodes for England has 15 for 124 to his
credit on the Melbourne ground in 1903-04.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The horrible weather during
the fifth Test in Melbourne knocked the
bottom out of any chance the Australian
Board of Control had of coming out ahead
of it financially. The first four Tests showed
handsome gates, the third at, Melbourne top-
ping a fat list with £6478. On the last
occasion £638 was all that was pouched, the
total coming to £18,578 for the series. The
South Africans got £271 of the fifth Test-
match takings for their cut, but as the ex-
penses to be met by the board were heavy—
the bill for the Australian players alone
topped £5O0 —there was a loss on this game.
The receipts for the Tests were £BOOO more
than the West Indians pulled in, but £50,000
less than when th,e Englishmen were last
here, The outcome is that the Board of
Control, after paying the ’Boks their guar-
anteed £12,000, will be somewhere about a
thousand pounds down. The moral of it all
is, following on the West Indian frost, don’t
import teams which can’t draw the money—
unless you belong to that out-of-date coterie
which puts sport before spondulicks.
ifc sji sj:
“L. and P.” : English is again nibbling at
promising young Australian cricketers. Eric
Bromley, the dashing Westralian left-hander
who scored so attractively against the South
Africans in their first match at Perth, has
been offered a five-year job with Worcester
county. Bromley would have to play League
cricket for a couple of years to qualify, but
as he is only on the edge of the 20’s he has
plenty of time before him. Bromley first
played for Westralia at the age of 15, when
he made 40 against South Australia in such
style that such a fine judge as Victor Richard-
son reckoned him the most promising left-
hander he had seen since Clem Hill. This
boy and Tasmanian Nash are two arguments
in favor of giving Westralian and Tasmanian
players a show in bigger cricket than they
are able to command at present There
should be some way of enabling a liaison
wnereby one or two Westralians would be
given a gallop with South Australia in some
of the Sheffield Shield matches at Adelaide
while Tasmanians were similarly accommo-
dated in the Victorian games in Melbourne
* « * c-
“White Horse”: G. G. Hearne, whose
death in England at 75 is reported, was
one of the famous cricket family of that
name which has figured so largely in the
score-books of Kent and Middlesex. It is
just 30 years since Hearne last appeared
for Kent, but in his time he scored 8155
runs for the county, averaging 18.53 runs
per innings. As he was a fast left-hand
bowler who took 514 wickets for an average,
of 18.23, he was evidently well up to the
family standard.
jj: i]i
“Aunt Sally”: In spite of the easy win
over the Afrikanders, Australia has little to
plume itself on as regards the season’s cricket.
For runs, the side has had to depend on
Woodfull and Bradman, and in bowling on
Grimmett and Ironmonger. Of the new men,
Rigg does not impress as a permanent pos-
sibility for the side, and Nitschke has failed
to live up to his promise. Among the new
bowlers, Nash and O’Reilly may be the swans
we have been combing out the ducklings for,
but it is too early to say. The Eng-
lishmen next season are going to be a much
tougher proposition than the Africans. For
one thing they are not likely to make
presents of a fresh innings to batsmen in the
slips,
❖ ❖ >s i *
“Cash Amateur”: The N.S.W. Cricket
Association last week decided to make a pre-
sentation to McCabe in recognition of his
double century against Victoria. It is not
difficult to imagine that if the runs had been
made against any other State than the hated
mob across the Murray, the youth would have
had to go content with the glory. If further
evidence of this state of feeling were needed,
it may be found in the comment by Syd
Smith, once secretary of the Board of Con-
trol, that the Victorians had “insulted” the
South Africans by playing district games on
the same occasion that the tourists were
playing against the Sjate. South Africa didn’t
complain of the practice, which is quite a
common one in a full season, and if they
didn’t squeak there seems no reason why
Smith should have spoken out of his turn.
(Continued on page SI.)
“Hotham”: Yet another Victorian ama-
teur ped is taking to the cash game. “Tickle”
Whyte will make his bow as a pro. at the Sta-
well Easter meeting, running in the half,
mile and two-mile handicaps. Whyte recently
had a dust-up with the Victoria amateur
athletic heads, who did not send him to
represent the State in Sydney, though he
had won the Victorian mile title, and this is
one of the reasons for his going over.
* $ $ *
“Amateur Pro”: There has been some-
thing of a stir in the athletic world because
of Crawford’s alleged refusal to go with a
Davis Cup team unless his wife goes with
him, and Bradman’s supposed threat that
he will not play for Australia if the ban
on player-writers remains. London “Daily
Express” hysterically comments that “their
outstanding qualities make the pair superior
to sporting laws.” Nonsense. What is to
become of the discipline which is impera-
tive in international sport if players are
allowed to defy the authorities who give
them fheir opportunities? Australia bulked
big on the cricket and tennis map before
Bradman or Crawford were heard of, and
will do so when both are forgotten. When
the famous strike of the players against
the Board of Control took place in 1912,
and the intransigeants were put on the
shelf, the death of Australian cricket was
forecast by the pessimists, but the corpse
continues to be very much alive.
* * * *
The final tennis Test between Japan and
Australia in Sydney drew huge crowds
throughout the three days and ended in an
easy victory for the local men, who thus
won the series by two matches to one.
In the opening match at Melbourne, Japan
won by- 7 rubbers to 5, and after a good
beginning at Perth was beaten by a similar
margin. In Sydney, the visitors were over-
whelmed, Australia winning by 10 rubbers
to 2. Crawford played inspired tennis in
singles and doubles throughout, and has
never made such a good impression. Both
Hopman and Sproule did well, particularly
on the last day, when each helped Crawford
to a sweeping victory by beating Satoh and
Nunoi respectively. In the doubles games.
Crawford, in conjunction with Hopman and
Sproule, had it all his own way through-
out the match. The trial games saw South
Australian Turnbull victorious over both
Dunlop and McGrath, in the latter instance
after a hard match in which his severe ser-
vice stood him in good stead. McGrath
had again beaten Moon.


Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
e
.THINK OF
' SCHUTE,
BELL &C °td.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
;gr
#>
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
The Australian Art Exhibition
'THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
Bulletin "'PuilpTnqs
252 Georqe Street.
<9
See announcement page
13.
MS
X
Dependable /
■CRAIG & AITKEN
■Wholesale Dishibutoff
I smineij N.5.W.
The Ins and Outs
The final Test match between South
Africa and Australia in Melbourne ended
in a terrible doing for the visitors, who tea
in the second innings for 4o and lost
by an innings and 72. Ironmonger t-
lowed his first-innings triumph by taung
6 wickets for 18 runs, making his total
for the match 11 wickets for 24.
The Australian-African Test averages are
rather one-sided, Bradman’s total ot sun
for an average of 201.5 overshadowing a
the others. It is a pity in a way he did
not have a chance to show his abdity on the
very bad pitch in the last Test at Melbourne,
and in that regard, perhaps, his last-minute
accident in the dressing-room may have been
a blessing in disguise. Woodfulls 7 innings
averaged 70.14, but Rigg may be accounted
fortunate to have reached the oO mars.
Among the bowlers, Grimmett, with
wickets at 16.84 each, was closely followed
by Ironmonger with 31 wickets, which, how-
ever, thanks to his great run in the last
Test, cost only 9.54 apiece. M all s lo foi
20.23 each was good going for a fast bowler.
The best batting average on the Afrikander
side was Mitchell’s 32.2 for 10 innings.
Taylor had 31.2 for the same number ot
innings, but no one else topped the 30 mai k.
Bell stood out among the visiting bowlers
with 23 wickets —almost double the bag ot
any other Afrikander bowler—at a cost, ot
27.13 runs apiece. Of the teams, Australia
scored 2410 runs for 87 wickets, and aver-
aged 27.70 per wicket. South Africa made
1547 for 100 wickets, with an average or.
18.47. Of 19 Tests Australia has won 14 and
South Africa 1. Four have been drawn.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The result of the South
African-. Tests has been almost as much
of a disappointment to Australians as to
the tourists. In spite of their ill-success m
the Tests and the fact that they only won
five matches outside the big games, two of
them against country sides and one against
Tasmania —there is one match against
Westralia still to go—they will leave us with
the impression that they have failed to show
the abilitv which it is evident they pos-
sess. Their experience in Australia has
rather confounded the' prophets.. They
themselves largely relied on their batting, and
it was the general opinion that here lay
their strength, with a reputation for fault-
less fielding, gained in England and South
Africa, to back that up. Both batting and
fielding, save for individual cases and
occasional flashes of form, were disap-
pointing. Their slip catching, so much
acclaimed, was erratic. Bradman owes at
least two of his mammoth scores to the
fact of being badly missed in the slips early
in his innings—it happened twice in one
match. On the other hand, the bowling was
distinctly better than expected. Bell stands
out in a class by himself. He is one of
the best fast-medium bowlers we have seen
here since Tate, and he was always dan-
gerous with the new ball, even Bradman
treating him with respect. After him left-
hander Quinn showed distinct class, and on
his day slow-bowler McMillan did some good
things. Vincent, another lefthander, also
bowled well in the minor matches, though
he was more successful as a batsman in the
Tests.
* * * *
“St. Johns”: Sir Leslie Wilson, Queens-
land’s new Governor-elect, is a keen
cricketer who still figures in many of the
elevens sent out during the season by the
M.C.C. Like Francis Jackson, whom Austra-
lian players in England will recall as one of
the greatest of amateur all-rounders,, he took
a great interest in the game in India while
Governor of Bombay and was responsible
for the organisation of the India team for
England next season. lie was chairman
of their London committee, but will now
have to step down in favor of someone else.
As he is keen on golf, tennis and yachting
as well, Queensland should suit him down
to the ground.
* * * *
“Mid Off” : Arthur Mailey has sounded the
Board of Control as to taking a cricket team
to Canada during the coming Australian
winter. The one-time googly expert put in
some time recently in Canada as a coach and
adviser, and as a result has been asked to
undertake the tour, which may be extended
to New York and Philadelphia, the last the
cricket centre of the United States. . Brad-
man will be unavailable, but Mailey intends
to give some of the young talent a chance.
He will probably get the board’s permission,
but it is hardly likely to accord him the
hall-mark of official approval—the side will
go as a private show entirely.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Conditional invita-
tions to Australia’s Davis Cup team are
pouring in from Yankeeland. The United
States tennis heads have cabled offers to
play the Australians in ’Frisco if they arrive
there, dividing profits on an equal basis.
Honolulu also wants the team, offering ex-
penses and a cut of the gate. Both invi-
tations have been tentatively accepted. If
the team leaves it will be by the Niagara
on March 31, playing at Honolulu on April
15, and going on to California five days later.
Uncle Sam has always shown himself keen
on visits r rom Australian teams. He mas
been just as keen in refusing invitation after
invitation to send a team to Australia.
“Top Spin” : Norman Brookes’s notion of
an Eastern Davis Cup zone, in which
tralia, Maoriland, South Africa, Japan ana
others would take part, is falling flat. M-D.
is definitely against it, though it supports
the proposal to have the Cup contests played
every two years instead of annually, bourn
Africans also will have; none of Brookes s
darling scheme. Within easy reach ot
Europe, they prefer to play in that zone and
attend Wimbledon at tlie same time.
'!• * * *
“Cut Shot”: The usual newspaper slobber
is in evidence over McGrath. Foolish pei-
sons who are permitted to stain paper
are agreed that the 16-year-old school-
boy must abandon any thought of preparing
himself for earning a living later and confine
himself at once to the career of a protes-
sional gladiator. One journal condemns
promoters for rushing the youngster s
services in exhibition games. But its con-
cern is not due to the probability ot the
lad’s future being ruined by the distractions
of gate-money sport. Its indignation is
aroused because “McGrath is too valuable an
asset to N.S.W. and Australian tennis to
be left to- their [the promoters ] tender
mercies.” And when McGrath s tennis skill
has 1 left him, as leave him it must some day,
or if it does not develop beyond its present
standard, what will “N.S.W. and Austra-
lian tennis,” to say nothing of the Blither
Press, do to help him to pick up the threads
of education and employment he has dropped
to play games? The answer is a loud and
emphatic “Nix.”
* * * *
“Kooyong”: The monthly meeting of the
Australian Tennis Council disclosed the fact,
that the Japanese visit is likely to prove as
successful financially as it has done other-
wise. The net profit for the first Test in
Melbourne was flßuO, and there were good
attendances at Perth. Sydney should cap the
pair of them. Satoh’s lightning tour ot
Tassy was also a money-spinner, though
most of this goes into the Apple Island
coffers.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Iconoclast”: If there is any use for golf
at all it lies in the obsession's capacity tor
revealing in all its hideousness the real tem-
perament of our best friends. Recently a
OUT OF HIS TURN.
FAIR STRANGER: “But poor little Fido was only wagging his tail!
INFURIATED GOLFER : “D—n him, he’s always wagging it."
Svdncv journal told of a local golfer who,
having lost a ball in a water hazard, threw
his caddy in after it, because the youth snig-
gered. He was, however, anticipated by an
Englishman whose activities landed him in a
police court. The player drove two balls in suc-
cession into a ,lake. Then, snatching Ins bag
from the caddy, he hurled that after the
balls, informing the lake that it, might as
well have those too. The unfortunate caddy
ventured some remark and promptly went the
same way as the bag. After all, even cad-
dies are entitled to the law’s protection,
though not everyone will agree.
•J: ❖ * *
“Sandringham”: In Victoria, as in
N SW. there are several public golf courses
which are run by the Proprietors for then-
own profit. The Victorian golfing heads
have lately refused to register as clubs
organisations attached to or utilising these
courses As a result, those interested are
founding a Public Links Association, which
intends to institute a championship and a
regular series of open meetings.
* * * *
“Divot Digger” : Some of the New South
Wales golf professionals seized the chance
to tunc up for the coming season by turning
out for a £25 purse presented by the Oak-
lands Country Club. The Bolger brethren
W. and E. —the former the local profes-
sional —made a good thing of it, tieing with
68 for the round of 18 holes, and dividing
first and second prizes. W. Bolger won the
NS W. professional championship of 1930,
and is already in rare form. Though only
a year old, the Oaklands course is already
near perfection, the grassing especially.
Toowoomba is staging its usual Easter
tourney from March 22 to 28. The star
item is the Darling Downs open cham-
pionship on Easter Saturday. Play will be
over 36 holes stroke, the eight leading ama-
teurs to qualify for the amateur title.
Trophies for the amateurs and substantial
cash prizes for the professionals will be given.
* =i= * *
“Hoylake” : Few realise the dangers lurk-
ing in golf. There was a notable instance in
England recently when a Birmingham man
was sued by a lady acquaintance, who asked
that he be bound over to cease annoying her.
It appears the pair first met on the golt
links, and the acquaintance ripened into a
passion on the part of the gentleman that
the lady did not reciprocate. The swain pur-
sued her everywhere, and flooded her home
with presents of golf-bags and other odd-
ments. which were steadfastly returned with-
out effect, with the result that the law had
to be appealed to. The beak accepted
defendant’s undertaking to pack up, and
cease his persecutions, without making a
court order. It would seem that the lady
would have been better advised to marry
the man. Then she would never have seen
him again. * *
“Susie Swattit”: N.S.W. women golfers,
who prefer to call themselves the Ladies
Golf Union —though it is understood that
washladies and charladies are not qualified
for membership—face an ambitious pro-
gramme for the coming season. Most nnpoi-
tant of the events are the N.S.W. and Aus-
tralian championships. The first of these
will begin on July 14 at the Royal Sydney
Club’s course at Rose Bay. The national
event is set down for Kooyonga, in South
Australia, and opens on August 12. Ino
minor State events range from the open
summer meeting at Wollongong on March
8 to the open mountain meeting of scratch
events at Leura from November 1 to 4, which
will close the season.
Car and Cycle
“Tenakoe”: Norman Smith s successful
attack on the world’s 10-mile speed record
in Maoriland has resulted in his claiming
four records : the world’s 10-mile, the 10-
mile unlimited engine-capacity international,
the 10-mile British and the 10-mile un-
limited-capacity British —all these with
flying starts. The tape from the timing
machine and 11 certificates relating to the
car and its performances have been sent to
the Royal Automobile Club, London, for
reference to the international motoring
authorities. _ .
* * • * *
“Hotham”: Harry Jenkins, who with H.
Jeffrey has just completed a flight from
England to Australia, is a Melbourne dentist
who was a prominent motorist in the pioneer
days. He was a competitor in the motor-
cycle section of a reliability contest from
Melbourne to Sydney which was staged by
Dunlops in 1905. His mount was a o|-
h.p. “Griffin,” and, barring some trouble
when he tried to bump a mob of tiavelling
bullocks off the track near Albury, he fared
pretty well. Of late years he has done his
racing in a car, and his Bugatti has figured
conspicuously in the Phillip Island Grand
Prix. . * *
“Fitzcray”: Australia’s one and only
motor-car road-race, the Phillip Island
(Vic ) Grand Prix, will take place at Cowes
over the usual 200-mile course on March 14.
This race will be the fifth of a series that is
yearly becoming more popular with motor-
car drivers and the public, and on this occa-
sion will be a straight-out handicap with
valuable prizes and a special of £5O for the
fastest time. The race is a stiff test for
drivers, for the circuit, which has to be cov-
ered 31 times, is only 64 miles, with four
uglv corners. Last year’s race was won by
C. Junker in an 8-cylinder Bugatti with an
average speed of 69.87 m.p.li. The record
for the circuit stands to the credit of H.
Bartlett, of N.S.W., who last year did one
round at the rate of 79.09 m.p.h.
* * * ❖
“Kick Starter”: Maoriland’s second
annual Tourist Trophy race for motor-cycles
was run at Warneke Island recently over
a course of 168 miles, or 33 miles longer
than tlie inaugural race last King’s Birth-
day. The winner was A. Mattson, an Auck-
land rider who holds the M.L. dirt-track
championship, and second man was last
year’s winner, S. Moses. Mattson rode a
replica of the Norton machine which won
the last Isle of Man T.T. event, and got
home by three minutes from Moses. _ He
covered the course in 3hr. llmin. 58 l-ssec.,
and was one of the few competitors who
did not come a cropper. Mattson also had
the fastest lap time, covering the 6! miles in
7min. 32sec. on four successive rounds.
* * * #
“Met.”: The Australian amateur cycling
authorities are showing good sense in sug-
gesting that the Australian track and road
championships should be brought into con-
formity with Olympic conditions by adopt-
ing metric measurements. The Olympic
road races in the past have been over 100
miles, but in future the distance will be
100 kilometres (62.14) miles). Next
season’s road championship will be held in
Tasmania for the first time, and the new
system will probably then apply.
Miscellaneous
“Acme”: The recently-completed winter
sports section of the Olympic Games in
America affords an interesting comparison
between the speed of a runner and a skater.
A Canadian girl named Potter won her
beat in the 1000 metres (1093 yards) in
2min. 1 l-ssec., a world’s record for women.
This works out at 9.03 yards per second.
Jules Ladoumergue, holds the world’s cham-
pionship for the same distance on the run-
ning track, his best time being 2min. 23
3-ssec. —about 7.(50 yards per second. Pro-
bably in the short sprints the spiked-shoe
merchant would beat the skater, but evi-
dently he has no hope over the distances.
* * * *
“Duenna”: The Olympic authorities are
drawing up a code of laws to regu-
late the conduct of their team for
Los Angeles which makes the Board
of Control’s 39 articles pale by com-
parison. If possible the male and female
components of the team will travel by dif-
ferent boats, and will be quartered in
different sections of Los Angeles. The sexes
will not be allowed to mingle during the
games on any consideration whatever,
Periodical medical examination up to the
time of leaving Australia will be another
new feature of the latest exodus.
* * * *
“Booroodabin”: Andrew Charlton, who
has been making a swimming tour of Queens-
land, added another Australian record to his
list in Brisbane the other day, when he
covered 800 metres (874.88 yards) in lOmin.
57sec. The distance is one rarely seen on
Australian swimming programmes, and there
is no accepted time for it in this country.
Abroad, however, it is the equivalent of our
half-mile. Jean Taris, the young Frenchman,
who will be one of Charlton’s most dangerous
rivals at the Olympiad, holds the world’s
record with lOmin. 19 3-ssec.
* * =;= *
“Fitzcray”: The world’s sprint champion-
ship, which will be held at Melbourne
Motordrome on March 5, lias drawn a big
entry of trackmen, including Tim Banner
and Ralph, the South Australian winner of
the last Stawell Gift. The championship
will be decided by three tests over 75, 130
and 220 yards. Holder of the title is the
Victorian ex-amateur Austen Robertson.
One notable visitor to the show will be
Mick Terry, who handled Donaldson in
South Africa, whence Terry has just re-
turned.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: Possibly the depression had
something to do with the fact that the big-
gest turnout of city guns in history poured
through Ballarat and other places for the
opening of the duck season. The usual
phenomena preceded the fixture. Numbers
of wise birds led their offspring to the sanc-
tuary of the Botanic Gardens in Melbourne,
and one even caused a tram stoppage in
Swanston-street. Seeing an object fall
beneath his wheels round about midnight the
driver rammed his brakes on and there was
a hurried search for the injured pedestrian.
A startled wild duck emerged from under
the conveyance. There are arguments on
both sides as to whether the behavior of
the ducks in seeking the city when the sports
are seeking the country is due to acquired
characteristics, but the fact is established.
One station-.owner near Bendigo, who refuses
to allow guns to enter his property, goes
further. He asserts that before the opening
date the birds assemble on his ponds and
dams in greater numbers than on any of the
neighboring properties.
* * * *
“Blade”: As expected, selector Ossie
Wood has chosen the entire Mosman crew,
winners of the N.S.W. eight-oar champion-
ship. to represent the State in the race, for
the championship of Australia and the King’s
Cup on the Yarra on April 23. The emer-
gency, Walker, is the only non-Mosmanite.
hailing from Haberfield. H. Turner, also of
Haberfield. who won the State sculling
championship so sensationally recently, is
the nomination for the Australian Scnlls.


ss
se
N
By Marking with
nAMEs
Saves loss in the laundry
Fadeless and Durable,
"A few Stitches and they’re on. ”
j <0.&. < 71%lfacunA. |
J- —L
Actual Sise, Style No. 6.
Prices: 12 doz. 7/6
6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6
Sold by all Best Drapers.
Write for Style Circular to
J. & J. Cash Australian
Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd.
Richmond, Melbourne.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. 0. WILLIAMSON. LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: BLUE ROSES.
CRITERION: BRIGHT SIDE UP
Commencing Saturday.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
Brilliant revival of
CHOCOLATE SOLDIER
With GLADYS MONCRIEFF.
KING’S THEATRE:
THE BARRETTS OF WIMPOLE
STREET
With MARGARET RAWLINGS.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local,
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt' Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
Sleek hair
Make your hair sleek, soft and
lustrous by feeding its dry,
weakened roots with the rich,
pure nourishment of Rowland’s
Macassar Oil every day.
0 f Chemists,
Stores and
H a i r d ressers,
3/6, 7/- and
10/6. Red for
dark hair,
golden for fair
or grey hair.
ancFs
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
22 Laystall Street, Rosebery Avenue,
LONDON, E. 0.1, ENGLAND.
J. H. & CO.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenstand's
Distinguished Social Life.
This State feels it has quite a claim on
Queensland’s Governor-designate, Sir Leslie
Wilson, till recently Governor of Bombay.
To begin with, Sir Leslie was an aide on
Sir Harry Rawson’s staff in a Sydney of
the gay days of old; next, his wife was the
eldest daughter of Captain Charles Smith,
of Goderich, now a guest-house in Darling-
hurst ; and, third, his son Peter is a jack-
eroo on Toganmayne, in the Riverina. Colin
Smith, of Penrith, is a brother of Lady
Wilson, and the Misses Elsie and Amy
Smith, of Greenoaks Cottage, Darling Point,
are other relations.
An old friend of Queensland’s new Gov-
ernor remembers him as one of the most
popular aides who ever “changed partners”
in the melee of a Roger de Coverley. This
old timer was a frequent finale in dances of
Sir Harry Rawson’s regime. The new Gov-
ernor was thinner in those days. His tall
figure and handsome dark-eyed face, with its
cheery smile, and liis worth as a first-rank
dancing man made him one of the pets of
local society.
With handsome Governor Leslie Wilson
(Sydney liked him immensely when he was
A.D.C. on the Viking Rawson’s staff) return-
ing to Australia comes a sheaf of memories
of the always-loved Rawson family. Thqy
were housed at Cranbrook, and spent in
carriage-drives (the motor-honk did not
distract the vice-regal mind in those days) a
third of their time chasing the clock to keep
myriads of appointments. . Cranbrook, with
iis charming family circle, was a real home,
and aides were like sons of the house. Lady
Rawson and her only daughter, Alice, by the
way, had many adventures following their
sailor round the world. Both, with son
Wyatt (then aged eight), were on board the
St. George (their Admiral in command) at
the bombardment of Zanzibar. Wyatt, after-
wards a King’s School boy, was presented
with a gold watch by the new Sultan, who
was surprised to find his head in the right
place. Lady Rawson and her daughter
received a “rich gold necklace and pendent
star with the Sultan’s monogram” after the
uproar.
Yelia Ercole’s “No Escape,” published in
London, has had an enthusiastic welcome
from the reviewers; the “Standard” stars
it as the book of the week. It was among
the highly commended in The Bulletin’s
last novel competition, and struck one at
least of the judges as not inferior to “A
House Is Built,” the prize-winner in the first
competition. Later it was a success when
. The Bulletin published it serially. Velia.
daughter of an Italian doctor, long settled at
Grenfell, was born still further west, at
White Cliffs, and in “No Escape” she has
written of what she knows —the life of a
country doctor. Very early in her teens she
made up her mind that she must write, and
as soon as she could manage it she came to
Sydney and got a place on the staff of the
“Sun.” For nearly three years past she has
been in Europe. “No Escape” makes the
ninth or tenth story written for the Novel
Competition to get a good kick-off from the
book-publishers.
Sydney has a new dance-room. It is named
the State Assembly, and is on the eighth
floor of the State Theatre buildings. An
industrious orchestra and a panatrope and the
tinkle of cocktail-glasses proclaimed its open-
ing, and the young, the colorful and the blithe
of foot drifted along to drown an olive and
run an experimental toe over the floor. The
room, which comfortably holds about 300.
is done in pastel tones of pale amber, very
subdued and restful; but why, at the open-
ing, when the orchestra stopped, did the
panatrope have to begin? If we are not
careful we will soon become a race absolutely
dependent on mechanical sound. Instead of
training our tongues and our brains to the
expression of gay sounds, we are becoming
slavishly dependent on the gramophone or
the radio.
Well, to get back to the party, Mrs. Stuart
Doyle wasn’t there because she' is still in
hospital, so Enid Baumberg became a very
efficient official receiver. Mr. Doyle was most
of the time with the George FitzPatricks,
Mrs. A. C. Godhard and Mrs. Dan Kelly
dagger-slim and terribly smart in a cream
outfit, whose hat was fashion’s final edition.
Jean Cheriton, very fragile but very pretty,
was there in a sort of grey rhythm of georg-
ette. Mary Wells sported one of the jaunty
little Glengarry hats with her frock of
black satin, former Town-Clerk Layton
dropped in for 10 minutes, and there was at
least one girl who waggled happy bare toes
in her white kid sandals.
To remind the world that the 10th Olym-
piad would be held in Southern California
this year, Pasadena dedicated its 43rd
Annual Tournament of Roses to the Olympic
Games. The theme of this luscious pageant
was “Nations and Games in Flowers,” and
composing it were three million blooms, tons
of greenery, and hundreds of girls and boys
typifying the youth of the lands that will
compete in the games. The Australian
Olympians were paid a pretty compliment.
Tlie graceful and impressive float from San
Marino, which won the prize, represented
Australia. It featured a magnificent lyre-
bird composed of garden flowers all in white
tones. The regal bird was linked by long-
ribbon steamers to a throne chair canopied
with flowers, and on each side of the float
swayed fragrant, glowing flower lanterns.
Not an artificial flower is used in this dis-
play, and this year there were 72 floats.
For our Bridge celebrations, incidentally,
the floats will number seven, and Pyrmont
enjoyed the first peep of these grandeurs.
Several of the floats are being created out
that way by Clint (Alf Clint, the artist)
and Robertson, and the committee decided
it would like to see a dress rehearsal of the
Captain Cook item. So on a very hot day
Pyrmont small boys opened their eyes at
seeing heavily caparisoned horses drawing
something that might happen in a dream.
Here was a quaint three-masted ship with
sails furled, and, standing about her decks,
sailors and soldiers in cocked hats, tight
white nankeen breeches and waisted cut-
away coats. And there was Captain Cook,
very alert and stern, with his telescope.
What wonder that young Pyrmont yelled
with delight, while an older, unemployed
Pyrmont gibed sardonically. “Take off your
hat, and I’ll kiss you!” one stalwart im-
plored the explorer.
Sydney is going to miss the Dutch Con-
sular Teppemas. He is one of the best-
dressed and most debonair of our consuls,
and she is one of the city’s best amateur
musicians. Mrs. Teppema was a Delprat, a
daughter of the
Broken Hill
P r o p. Del-
prat, and her
natural talent
for the violin
he had trained
and developed
along quite
p r o f e ssioual
line s. Th e
popular couple
leave to-mor-
row by the
Orontes for
South America,
where Mr.
Teppema will
be Mi nister
P 1 e n i p oten-
tiary for Hol-
land in the
Argent ine.
The language
will not be
altogether strange to the lady, as she
was born in Spain and has visited it on
several occasions. Buenos Ayres will be the
family’s headquarters. One of the largest
and most formal of the parties given to
farewell them was the luncheon of the N. S.
Wales branch of the League of Nations
Union; one of the most intimate that given
by Mrs. Segaert, wife of the Consul-General
for Belgium, in her Mosman home. Monte
Luke made this picture.
The Stunt and Decoration Committee
of the Artists’ Ball, which will warm the
heart of April 1, has now decided upon the
scheme of decoration for what promises to
be the spectacular event of the season. .The
design, which is the work of J. Bindoff —*
he is on the display staff of David Jones’s —
will turn the Town Hall into a jungle,
great _ masses of tropical trees and flowers
towering gallery high. And here, since the
nude sunbathing groups of Sydney have
offered to demonstrate their ideals, which
offer has not yet been rejected, it may be
that nymphs and fauns and dryads will peep
shyly around the boles of trees or display
dimpled knees blushingly ’mid ferny fronds.
On one of last week’s overcast days, when
in spite of rain the human body felt like
a casserole, this Letter met two of its friends
in the city highways. The first was wrapped
about in a cloth coat of the newest cut,
snug with Persian lamb collar and cuffs. The
‘other was encased in a three-season-old tweed
coat. Said No. 2: “Isn’t it muggy? I’m
sweltering.” And “Oh, I don’t feel it,” said
No. 1. Which just shows you how much
more trying the heat is to an old tweed
coat than to glossy cloth plus Persian lamb.
The spine-curling horror of “Rope” was
unfolded in telling manner by the Pickwick
Theatre group at the Savoy. Of drama this
is a sizzling dish from the moment the two
morbid young murderers clap the body into
the old oak chest in their sitting-room and
then spread the supper for their party on
the lid. Dick Pockley and Paul Spitzer were
first and second murderers, and Philip Lewis
was Rupert Cadell, the man who found them
out, principally through having the inside run-
ning on their mentality, having known them
as students. It’s a theme for only the strong
of nerve, and the better it’s done the worse
it is.
Will Ashton is laughing and grumbling at
the same time over the sales tax on paint-
ings. Like the rest of the craft he has been
asked to, show cause why an artist isn’t a
manufacturer. And, of course, he can’t.
There is, however, some balm in Gilead still.
The artist-manufacturer hasn’t to pay unless
his output brings him in less than five hun-
dred a year, and a thousand in some cases.
Mrs. May, widow of Dr. T. H. May,
of Bundaberg (Q.), is in Sydney visit-
ing son Hugh and small grand-daughter
Yvonne, of Rose Bay. Mrs. May is the
eldest daughter of the late W. F. Buchanan,
who was the owner of many sheep and
cattle stations, among them Killarney, at
Narrabri, and Wave Hill, in the Northern
Territory—the latter disputing with its
neighbor Victoria Downs the honor of being
the largest cattle-run in the world.
This Falk picture shows Mrs. Bertie Kelly
exactly as Sydney remembers her, vivacious
and smiling and with a hint of forcefulness
about the mouth and chin. She told this
Letter the
other day that
she is back in
Australia for
about eight
months so
that her young-
est son, who
has been
absent for
eight years,
may live
awhile in the
atmosphere of
the land that
will eventu-
ally be his
home. Since
making her
h e adquarters
in Florence,
Mr s. Bertie
has turned her
attention to
literature, and
has several novels to her credit. She still
remembers with joy her first sight of Sydney
29 years ago. At that time she was a
young (Canadian actress, and she was arriv-
ing to play in the dramatised version of
“Butterfly.” She remembers a city snug-
gling amid trees. A week or so ago her first
impression was “How bare it is—as though
it has been shingled!” And, indeed, when-
ever she goes out she misses some favorite
tree, some green patch, whose place has been
taken by bricks and concrete. She finds
the city streets have gained in dignity and
beauty by the buildings that have arisen
during her absence; and our views are still
unrivalled, even by those of Venice or Flor-
ence. There her windows opened on a vipw
that embraced the far-famed Fiesole; here
her windows (her present home is in the
grounds of Cranbrook) look out on the tum-
bling, ever-changing blue of Port Jackson.
Beatrice Kelly, of tlie striking red head
and creamy skin, is arranging an exhibition
of her paintings and etchings for the end of
March.
Musical Sydney is the poorer by the death
of Mrs. FI. B. Allard, who for more than
20 years was one of the city’s noted singers.
As Emma Sussmilch, she studied at the
Charlottenburg Conservatorium in Berlin for
three years, one of her teachers being the
famous Adolph Schultze, and here it was
she developed her gift for lieder interpreta-
tion. She had also the honor of being one
of the Conservatorium’s Royal choir which
sang only at the command of the Hohenzol-
lerns. Before her marriage, the Philhar-
monic and the Liedertafel used to star this
singer, but after she married Mr. Allard, of
Allard, Way and Hai-die, she sang only for
charity, or at recitals in conjunction With
old friends like Frank Hutchens and Laur-
ence Godfrey Smith.
Earl Beauchamp left Darwin for his
beloved Sydney by the Marella last week,
so he should catch a few weeks of the sea-
son’s surfing. This city will sound during
the Bridge Week like London in the season
—and aren’t society hostesses waiting to
leap! The Earl of Jersey will be here with
his young Countess, and Viscount Monck of
County Wicklow will add his title to the
mglee. The Viscount is a keen cricketer, and
one idea of the trip is to see how Bradman
does it.
When as a girl Carrie Lanceley went to
London, many London experts thought her
soprano one of the most notable Australian
voices they had heard. Since then the singer
has often charmed audiences in Europe and
in her home town, but all too rarely now her
voice is heard in public. However, the other
afternoon the voice rang bell-likc through
the Arts Club, and pianist Lute Drummond,
who supplied Carrie’s accompaniments,
flushed with pleasure. David Craven weighed
in with his baritone, and good music was
also supplied by Claire Hartge, Clive Hayter,
Charles Nicis and D. Leon. There were 200
guests, and Lady Game, herself a musician,
led the applause.
Gordon Macartliur Brown, of Walcha.
who claimed his bride in the chapel of
King’s last week, is a descendant of George
Fail-fowl Macarthur, a headmaster of
King’s 63 years ago. Four generations
of Browns have been at King’s, and
at this wedding the best man, Cecil Mac-
donald, was also an old boy. The bride.
Thelma Suttie, of Moree, added her bit of
tradition to the ceremony, and wore a
veil of Limerick lace 160 years beautiful.
The Keith Dockers, of Strathfield, lent their
home, Wirringulla, for tlie party.
In spite of the heat, everybody, or so it
seemed, turned up at the tennis grounds
in Rush-cutter Bay to watch the finals
between Japan and Australia. The wife of
Japan’s Consul-General Inoue was a trig
figure in white. She has been a keen fol-
lower of her countrymen’s form, and many
other little ladies of the Japanese colony
have joined in the enthusiasm. On Satur-
day the sun was glaring, and yet by mid-
day there wasn’t a seat to be had. This
for hundreds of women on the lower ter-
races meant holding aloft a sunshade from
the moment of their arrival; but the sex
is intrepid. A bright idea was to have
bunches of girl's renting cushions out at
sixpence each; and, as this was done for
the Kindergarten Union, the tenants com-
bined charity with comfortable haunches.
Miss Crowdy and Aide Gifford did the
honors in the vice-regal pen, and Elise and
Sadie Budge, with their mother, were among
their callers.
Brisbane bounds in :
At the Q.T.C. laces Mesdanies Cadell Garrick, M.
Ryan and Ella O’Shea had tea parties on the com-
mittee-room verandah. Mrs. Cadell Garrick’s jade
necklet matched the green feather in her black hat
and her gown was coffee-brown voile. Black and
green was worn by Mrs. Ryan, with a floral pattern
in blue and brown. Mushroom-silk muslin with hat
en suite was worn by Miss O’Shea. Mrs. A. H.
Whittingham was in white crepe de Chine; Mrs.
J. Lipscombe, Julia Creek, chose navy and green;
Mrs. Silas Harding was in wine red; Mollie Brenan
wore navy and white. Brigadier-General and Mrs.
E. M. Ralph, the Cecil Palmers, Mrs. B. F. Lawson
and pretty daughter Shirley, the violinist, the Basil
Carrs, the Godfrey Morgans, the F. K. Brodribbs
and Tessa Reading were amongst those on the lawn.
Premier Moore paid a tribute to the metropolitan
branch of the C.W.A. at the ninth annual meeting
in the City Hall. Archbishop Sharp was another
speaker. Mrs. J. P. Peterson was elected president
and hostessed a tea party at the Women’s Club
after the meeting.
At Nundah, B. Martin and Muriel Auld were made
one. The bride, who was given away by her father,
was in ivory satin and Brussels-lace veil. Isabelle
Eden and Dorothy Little ’maided in pink satin
and lace. Beryl Allsop was flower-girl in blue crepe
de Chine, and Gordon Elliot was page. Mrs. Frank
Morris, the bride’s sister, hostessed the feast at the
Alan Brights’ home, Nundah.
Clem Dawe and Eric Edgeley’s Midnight Frolics
opened with a flourish of trumpets at the Empire.
The frocking is pretty and there is plenty of dancing.
Vaudeville deserves a run after the long, long trail
of talkies.
Doreen Hooper, who is off to England for a trip,
gave a bridge party at the T. B. Hoopers’ home,
Albion Heights, wearing black lace. Amongst the
guests were the Charles Bowlys, Mrs. Hannibal King,
Alice Loder, Madge Thomas (Sydney), Mary Luya,
Sholto Douglas, W. and J. King and Hugh Nelson.
Palms and pink and white morning glory back-
grounded the marriage at the Synagogue of Roy
Levy (Sydney) to Sylvia Roberta Phillips. The
bride was given away by Roy Phillips; she was in
ivory satin with a Brussels-net veil. Joyce Bloom
and Eva Cooritz ’maided in shell-pink mariette. The
reception was at the Trocadero.
There have been many other February weddings.
St. Luke’s, Toowoomba, saw that of Sydney Roberts
and Margaret Gildea. The bride was in 'shell-pink
bridal satin and Madonna cap of lace—the same one
worn by her mother at the altar. Joan Mitchell
’maided in Lido-blue mariette. The feasting was
at the Club Hotel.
St. Alban’s, Cunnamulla, saw the union of Keith
Williams and Mona Walters. The bride was in
Chantilly lace and a Honiton-lace veil. Trixie
Walters ’maided in eau-de-nil, and Pamela and
Barbara Walters, the bride’s nieces, were trainbearers
in buttercup voile.
At St. Brigid’s, Longreach, William Hagarty
wedded Dorothy May Sutton. The bride was given
away by her brother and was in ivory georgette
with a Brussels-net veil. Florence Sutton ’maided
in lemon silk georgette. Elma Hagarty, the other
bridesmaid, wore pale apricot.
Marie Lorenzo had a .party for bride-to-be Betty
Carter at her home at kangaroo Point in the form
of a “.shower” tea. Royal blue was worn by the
guest of honor and the hostess was in blue and
white dimity. Mesdaines T. A. Bond, Hume Kelly,
Rene Cummins, Leila Langberg, Vivienne Carter and
Frances Jeffrey were amongst the guests.


_____
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examiuations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
The Australian Art Exhibition
'THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
Bulletin ESWcfinqs |
252 Georqe Street. j
syon & v p
-Cs
See announcement page 13.
The simple way out, the painful way
out, but the only way out of Australia’s
troubles
is discussed in last Thursday’s
’’BARRIER MINER.”
This is the newspaper published twice every day
for the past 44 years at Broken Hill.
The people of the Far West do not need metro-
politan newspapers when they have their daily
“BARRIER MINER.”
household paces
> SOCIAL NOTES-ALL STATES*
LAOYS LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD,
ii Etc. Etc. Etc. ii
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES 62
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800for [?]
Buckley e-Nunn, [?]
[?]
The weather favored the hual day of the
Y.A.T.C. autumn meeting on Saturday and
there was a large crowd. There were no
distinctive touches in the dressing. Here
and there were noticed the new felt hats
perky things with a still perkier quill at a
jaunty angle—and there were plenty of
comfy coats and skirts of flecked frisca.
One maiden sported a frock of the new
green for cold-weather wear —a glaringly
vivid tint. Among the well-turned-out were
Mrs. A. M. Pape and Mrs. G. Wilder tak-
ing farewell of many friends on the eve
of their return .to England. Mrs. It. A.
Staughton and her daughter, who have
lately come from their station lands on the
X.S. vV.-Queensland border, were there. Other
visitors were Edith Moffatt, of Chatswood
(Western District), and Mrs. F. Murray,
„f W.A., who was a guest of Mrs. Ben
Chaffey. Mrs. G. Lemon, who is packing
for a voyage to London in April, was also
in the committee ladles’ box.
The conferring of the honorary degree of
Doctor of Medicine of Melbourne Uni. upon
C. 11. Fagge, who came here to present on
behalf of the R.C.S. a gold mace to the
R.A.C.S., was curtain-raiser to a garden
party staged in the Uni. grounds on Thurs-
day. The Con. orchestra provided an accom-
paniment to the ceremony in Wilson Hall
and the Uni. Rifles band played in the open.
The weather was ideal, and the crimson
academic gowns of graduates of overseas
universities and Chancellor MacFarland’s
gold braid looked gay in the sunshine. Grey
georgette overshadowed by a large black hat
was worn by Mrs. Fagge. Mrs. Alan New-
ton, wife of the hon. sec. of the R.A.C.S.,
was there in a floral frock topped by a black
hat. Lud Mayor Smith came with Mrs.
Dyer, whose frock and large millinery were
of opal-green tint. A coat and skirt of silk
in a wine tone surmounted by a black hat
were chosen by Mrs. H’. B. Devine. Dr.
B. M. Sutherland, president of the Vic.
branch of the 8.M.A., was accompanied by
Mrs. Sutherland, who wore navy with relief
of white. Visitors included knight Louis
Barnett and Dr. and Mrs. P. S. Foster, of
Maoriland; Dr. and Mrs. McKellar Hall,
of W.A.; Dr. and Mrs. H. R. G. Poate and
Dr. and Mrs. R. Wade, from N.S.W.; and
Dr Lilian Cooper, Dr and Mrs. John Power
and Dr. and Mrs. E. D. Ahern from Queens-
land. Dr. and Mrs. H'. Moore represented
the Speck.
A tea given by Mrs. H. B. Devine at
her home at Toorak, and a dinner followed by
a theatre-party to “The Barretts of Wirn-
pole-street,” at which Mrs. Julian Smith was
hostess, were among the entertainments given
to the womenfolk of the visiting surgeons.
At a luncheon-party put on by Mrs.
Geoffrey Syme at her home at Kew, a cloth
of silver covered the table, upon which a
regular armada of miniature galleons laden
with grapes and water-lilies coursed upon
bevelled-glass mirrors sprinkled with more
water-lilies. The hostess was clad in black
velvet and lace, with a shady black hat.
The chief guest, Mrs. J. Dyer, was in pale
green. About 20 guests assembled.
Mrs. J. Dyer, Mrs. J. G. Latham and
Freda Barrow were guests ot' honor at a
billy-boiling staged by the Lyceum Club.
Mrs. Oswald Syme’s garden at Macedon
furnished the magnificent flowers that deco-
rated the reception-room, and also the pre-
sentation posies. The president of the club,
Mrs. Woodruff, made speeches of greeting.
In the case of Mrs. Latham it was a
matter of saying uu revoir, as the lady will
accompany her husband to Geneva. Miss
Barrow, who is international secretary of
the Lyceum Club, hag just returned after
many years’ residence abroad. The Martin
lady, of Adelaide, and Dr. Constance D’Arcy,
of Sydney, were there also.
The Proscenium ' Club had a hop at head-
quarters. The president, Mrs. W. Cocker-
ton, who wag hostess, wore with lier white
gown a jade-green necklace. The vice-
president, Irene Mitchell, was draped in
satin of lilac hue, and Mrs. W. Mortill
danced in petunia-mauve chiffon.
A bridge party at the Victoria helped
along the building fund for the communal
hall of the Toorak-road synagogue. Chief
engineers were Mrs. C. Mayer, president,
Mrs. M. Cohen, hon. sec., and Mrs. S. D.
Smith, hon. treas., of the Ladies’ xAuxiliary.
Mrs. Montague Cohen sent along sweets and
various articles to be sold.
An afternoon-tea gathering at the Lyceum
Club was staged by Mrs. Russell Jackson
as a farewell to Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Belz,
the occasion also giving the hostess an oppor-
tunity to renew friendships after her trip
abroad. Belladonna lilies, agapanthus and
shasta daisies decked the room. Mollie
Warden and John Warren sang to accom-
paniments by Harold Stead. Black satin,
modelled on coat and skirt lines, with a
large black hat, was worn by Mrs. Jackson ;
Mrs. Belz’s raspberry-red cloth coat trimmed
with squirrel fur covered a frock of pale
pink silk. Among the guests were Mrs. O.
Hughes and her daughters, Mrs. V, P. John-
son, of Ballarat, and Gwen Hughes, Mrs.
Harry Emmerton, Mr. and Mrs. Gill, Betty
Paterson, the W. Mortills couple, Betty Rae
and Ola Cohn.
Mrs. Jackson showed a couple of her latest
caricature statuettes at the party, and also
a small plaque of black marble, in which is
inlet in mother-of-pearl a representation of
Gandhi in his characteristic squatting pos-
ture. When the Taj Mahal was built
a block or two of the marble left over
was carefully retained. Every 50 years
or so a plaque is made from a piece of it and
inset with the portrait of someone venerated
by the- Hindoos. Gandhi was. so honored, and
a small replica of the original was given to
him. This he passed on to the Australian
lady, who had made such clever studies or
him. The inlaid figure was done by a noted
Indian artist named Chatergee.
At the opening of the Country Week tennis
tournament at Kooyong courts, Helen ©age,
who was in a blue and white flowered frock
with a blue hat, and Miss N. Howie, who
wore bottle-green suit and hat, represented
the L.T.A.V. Council. Miss Sage was re-
sponsible for the floral decorations of the
clubhouse. The panama hat has come into
favor again with tennis girls, and is worn
with a colored ribbon band. A few bare legs
appeared beneath white silk frocks, the usual
short socks saving the lioseless participants
from looking like beach promenaders.
The “luck of the Valley” held good for
the compensation meeting, and the sun shone
brilliantly on the lawns of emerald green
that surrounded the Moonee course. Attend-
ance was good generally, though the tim-
bers’ stand was only sparsely tenanted. Mrs.
Russell Clarke was there in a gown pat-
terned in navy blue and white, with a straw
hat. Her daughter Marjorie looked cool in
flowered white shantung and panama hat.
Mr. and Mrs. Ker, of Wyaldra (N.Q ), were
visitors, she in grey georgette with touches ot
faint pink and straw millinery of a deeper
hue. Mrs. It. M. Cuthbertson chose black
and white. Mrs. Harold Walton, of Dayles-
ford, the A. G. Hunters and the 11. '■
Luxtons were in the throng.
The old mansion, Ileronswood, at Dro-
mana, which fronts a beach where Matthew
Flinders landed in 1802, was recently sold
by auction. The house was built m 1800
for Prof W. E. Hearue, first Dean of the
Faculty of Daw at Melbourne Uni. Uni.
Registrar Alexander Sutherland next occu-
pied the property, which subsequently passed
into the hands of the late Justice Higgins.
The seaside air must stimulate literary in-
spiration, for each of the trio wrote a book
while in residence at Ileronswood. lhe
new owner is AV. A. Farey.
After being associated with the Essendon
Ladies’ Benevolent Society for 11 years,
during two of which she was president, Mrs.
H. Scliwieger has severed her connection
with the philanthropic body, as she is leav-
ing the district. ' At a tea-party at the home
of the secretary, Miss E. E. Thomas, an
illuminated address was handed to Mrs.
Schwieger.
Deep blue lace was worn by the two
attendants at the knot-tying of Maisie
Marsham and Warner 11. Farrell, the bride
being in magnolia-tinted satin and old lace.
The bride’s bouquet was of frangipanm,
which is somewhat of a novelty here. The
after-rejoicings were staged at No. 9.
Here is Margaret Rawlings, who is
charming audiences at the King’s as poetess
Elizabeth
in “The Bar-
retts of Wim-
pole - street.'’
In private life
she is Mrs.
Toyne, wife
of the pro-
ducer. She is
24 years old,
and is a bru-
nette, slim, of
medium height.
She was born
in Japan, and
is a graduate
of Oxford.
There she first
met her hus-
band ; they
were married
four years
ago, and had
their wedding
reception in
the hall of Corpus Christ! College. Just
before her marriage she started her stage
career in a touring co. playing Shaw.
White satin and a glimmer of pearl
figured in the bridal array of Moyra, younger
daughter of the Rupert Watsons, of Perri-
coota station, Moama (N.S.W.), when she
exchanged vows with Arthur Tilley, of
Toorak, at St. John’s, in the tony subbub.
The gown had a bustle effect and a lengthy
train. A wreath of gardenias held the
tulle veil, and the bride’s bouquet was of
tbe same fragrant flowers. The frocks of
the three ’maids —Phyllis Watson, sister of
the bride, Laura Roberts, of Forbes, and
Gwen Hunter, of Bendigo —were of blue
ninon, fashioned with little coats. Wreaths
and posies of real delphiniums completed the
picture. There were rejoicings afterwards at
the Grosvenor.
A wedding at which most of the lime-
light was centred on the best man was that
of Douglas, son of the William Farndons,
of St. Kilda, and Dorothy, younger daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Ferdinand Schellnack, of
the same suburb. Don Bradman attended
the bridegroom, and all the small boys for
miles around gathered to gaze upon him.
White satin traced over with silver was
worn by the bride, whose embroidered lace
veil cascaded from a Juliet cap of silvery
pailettes and orange buds. A quartette of
attendant maids sported filmy gowns of
absinthe green, with tiny capes of ecru
lace. Their hats had brims of the same
lace with tops of green velvet. The recep-
tion was held at the Wattle.
The costuming of “The Chocolate Soldier’’
revival at the Royal was most picturesque.
Gladys Moncrieff as Nadina made her first
appearance in a nightie of white satin of
lovely sheen, with a creamy lace coatee. Next
came a geranium-pink frock embroidered in
silver, then a white satin wedding dress
topped by a Russian head-dress and lastly a
gown of powder blue with, chemisette and
sleeves of white muslin. In the audience
was Maggie Dickenson, a shoulder spray of
frangipanni cheering her black lace gown.
Her sister, Mrs. Charles Wenman, who was
in apple-green, was with her. Near by, in
the front stalls, were Mrs. Harry Emmerton
with her niece, Mary Emmerton, and her
grand-daughter, Hcrsey Brookes. Mrs.
Douglas Stephens, in black lace; Esme
Frankenberg, Mr. and Mrs. W. M. Robins,
Mr. and Mrs. Glass, Mr. and Mrs. P. Nunn,
Dr. Bob Strong and his niece, Gladys Brun-
ton, she in cherry-red satin, were also in
the stalls, and in the d.-c. were Mrs. W. H.
Merry, the Percy Blackbourns, Mrs. Car-
negie, Mrs. Dale and Mr. and Mrs. Fred
Bishop. The boxes contained Taits and
knight Robert Best and his family.
The engagement of Major Edric Henty
and Betty Wilkinson was celebrated at a
bridge party given by Cynthia and Hersey
Brookes at Raveloe, the home of their grand-
mother, Mrs. Plarry Emmerton. The flowers
used in decoration were many and beautiful.
Mrs. Emmerton, who had invited a few of
her own friends for a rubber or two, held
out a greeting hand with the two young
hostesses. Her gown was black velvet, and
the Misses Brookes wore lace frocks in
tints of champagne and pale yellow respec-
tively. Mary Emmerton chose a lace gown
of golden hue with goblin blue about the
waistline. A soft pink frock was worn by
Miss Wilkinson.
Students of the Albert-street Con. paid
a visit to Melba’s grave at Lilydale on the
anniversary of her death and placed flowers
upon it. The H.M.Y. Gramophone Co. lias
presented to the Music-teachers’ Associa-
tion the matrices from which discs of Melba’s
most renowned operatic numbers were made.
These, with records made from them, are to
be sealed and put away for 50 years.
Looking out from this paragraph is Frances
Bult, photo-
graphed just
after she had
proved herself
the fastest
swimmer over
short distances
in Australia,
and had quali-
fied for inclu-
sion in the
Olympic team.
Frances, who
is 18, showed
promise as a
schoolgirl, but
it was only a
few weeks ago
during the
National
Games here
that she was
found to be fit
to represent
Australia i n
overseas events. She broke two records in
the sprints.
In the Proscenium Club’s performance of
Noel Coward’s comedy "The Marquise,” at
the Playhouse on Saturday, Madame Mar-
guerite Cockerton, as the Marquise, sported
in the first scene a hooped and panniered
gown of dark green velvet with a rose-
decked pink watteau hat. Then there came
a dress of bois-de-rose velvet, opening over
pink taffeta, followed by another confection
of salmon-pink brocade with mauve and
silver embroidery. Irene Mitchell, as
Adrienne, daughter of the Marquise, looked
pretty in white brocade, and later trailed 'a
tremendous lot of nightie from beneath a
rose-pink satin coat. Most effective was
her final finery of sapphire-blue velvet, com-
bined with the palest blue. Margaret Fay
was a dainty maid in grey with white
muslin fichu and cap. The male members of
the cast flaunted a fine array of satin
breeches, brocade coats and lace ruffles. As
a prelude to the play, Frances Dillon, who
has been studying in London under Esta
D’Argo, sang numbers by Martin Shaw,
Frederick Delius and Arthur Bliss, with Iris
Rothstadt at the piano.
Australian news reels are now regular
features in London. One of the Tait daugh-
ters dropped into a news-reel theatre just
before the Melbourne Cup came on. When
she saw her daddy, John H., of the Firm,
standing on the lawn surveying the geegees,
the sense of time and space dropped from
her. The surprised movements of the audi-
ence brought her to the realisation that she
was standing up shouting to him.
The aged widow of former Chief Jus-
tice Dobson, of Tasmania, has come
from . England to see her relatives and
friends. She is a Tasmanian, being a
member of the Justin Browne family. She
has resided in England since her husband’s
death, and has returned witji her daughters,
Mrs. Hopgood and Miss May Dobson. At
present the party is in Melbourne.
Home-comers in the Mooltan were Dr.
G. R. A. Syme and his wife and infant
son. Dr. Syme has for the last three years
been doing post-graduate study in England
and Vienna.
Recently at Beckenham Hall, just out-
side London, the local orchestra gave a pro-
gramme under its new conductor, Herbert
Clifford, a young Australian composer, who
received his training at the Albert-street
Con. under Fritz Hart. Three other ex-
pupils of the Con. took part in the concert
—contralto Victoria Anderson, soprano
Viola Morris, and pianist and violinist
Margot Macgibbon.
Sculptor Ola Cohn is writing a children’s
book, woven about the fairy tree she is carv-
ing in the Fitzroy Gardens. Mrs. Napier
Waller is doing the illustrations.
Dr. and Mrs. Leon Jona and their daugh-
ter Clair, who is convalescing after appen-
dicitis. are passengers by the Moldavia for
Colombo.
Adelaide’s antics: —
A bridge party under the auspices of the Junior
Red Cross was held at the Mental Hospital, Parkside,
in aid of the fund to get serum for infantile paralysis.
Good support from the medical men and their wives
can always be counted on for these efforts.
The new Deborah Moulden wing at Escourt House,
Grange, for the accommodation of 28 patients, is now
open; it is the result of an appeal made by the
Moulden lady when she was Mayoress of Adelaide.
By means of another fund organised at the same
time, the “Silver Chain Cots” have come into
being; five in all for convalescent children. The
Silver Chain Fund was contributed by school
children, a silver coin a year. The Mouldens, accom-
panied by Mr. Fred Simpson (chairman of Escourt
House committee), recently inspected the new wing.
Miss Mary Stuckey, daughter of the Under-Trea-
surer, left by the Manunda for Sydney on an
extended holiday ; she will be staying with Dr. Frank
Stuckey, at Mosman.
Mrs. Winser, wife of Brigadier-General Peter
Winser, elder brother of his Ex.’s private secretary,
arrived by the Mooltan. She is staying at Belair
with Mr. and Mrs. Legh Winser.
Mrs. A. P. Evelyn O’Leary, who recently arrived
from England on a brief visit to her mother, Mrs.
J. W. Bakewell, was the guest of honor on Thurs-
day afternoon at an at-home given by Mr. S, J.
Jacobs (vice-president of the S.P.C.A.). Mrs. O’Leary
was honorary organiser for the society when she
resided in Adelaide 14 years ago. The party was
held at the Wentworth G‘af6, Liberal Club Building.
Mrs. S. J. Jacobs wore a black marocain toilette
and a black hat with ostrich feather. Mrs. O’Leary’s
black and beige figured georgette was worn with a
black georgette coat and a small beige straw hat.
Some of the committee present had been associated
with the society from its inception.
Mr. Justice Angas Parsons and Mr. George McEwin
left by the Westralia for Sydney on a holiday trip.
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Roberts, of Glenelg, will
leave for England next month by the Strathnaver.
Perth’s patch:—
From time to time news comes from England of
the successes of painter Miguel MacKinlay. Born in
Spain of a Scottish father and a Spanish mother
Miguel came with his family to Australia at 14.
He got a job in a scenic-artist’s studio and con-
tinued his art studies at the Perth Technical School
under J. W. R. Linton. The young artist held an
exhibition in St. George’s Hall, at which every pic-
ture was sold. Then he helped to decorate the
interior of His Majesty’s Theatre in the then fashion-
able style of massive solidity, and his earnings took
him to England. Since then his planet has ascended
rapidly. His “Tete-iVTete,” “Mother and Son,”
“The Bath” and “El Andaluz” have been hung in the
Royal Academy and he is in brisk demand as a
magazine illustrator. All his brothers and sisters
have a taste for pencil and brush.
St. Mary’s Cathedral sheltered the marriage vows
of Marjorie Woolcock, of Adelaide, and Dr. Michael
Kelly, of Bunbury. The bride chose a toilette to
match her bouquet of delphiniums. Her blue gown
was of moire and her large hat was of soft crinkly
straw. Joyce Burridge ’maided in a primula-pink
frock, the corsage fanciful with ruching and a tiny
piece of brown millinery. The bride’s mother served
toasts at the Palace.
To celebrate the touching of her 21st milestone
Margaret Giles scattered invitations for a bridge
party at her home in Claremont. Blue and white
flowers and sprigs of fern decorated the drawing-
room. The young hostess moved among her guests
in a flutter of cowslip gaz-de-soie.
The Repertory Club opened its portals for 1932
with a shivoo in the McNess Hall. Among musical
offerings was “One Fine Day,” sung by a pink-and-
white and very feminine Marcia Hodges. Phyllis
Hoare did some mimicry about a poodle and a
baby. In “Socrates and Xantippe” Norrie John
made sausage-meat of her meek spouse. The “im-
promptu” speeches were so seasoned with wit as to
suggest some preparation. Mary Gibbons steered
“Tear up the Joker” to success with her clever
character work. A large percentage of the audi-
ence melted away towards the end of the programme
to appear in tableaux of well-known people in fiction
and history. Supper in the clubrooms made the
finale.
Tassie’s tale:—
It was a quiet ceremony that united Jessie Mac-
donald, Queenstown, and Dr. S. G. Taylor, Long-
ford, at St. Andrew’s Church, Launceston. Mr.
George Keach gave the bride away; her wedding
frock was a sleeveless one of peach-pink georgette
with hip-length coat of lace in the same tone and
with sleeves ruched in leg-o’-mutton style. A picture
velvet hat and a big sheaf of flame-pink gladioli
completed the turn-out. A few intimate friends and
relatives gathered at the Launceston Hotel after-
wards, where Mr. and Mrs. Geo. Kcach did the
honors.
One of the smartest dances of the season was run
at the Continental by a committee of matrons and
maidens, town and country, with Betty Giblin as
hon. sec. Frocking was very attractive, and naval
uniforms added to the color scheme.
Another jolly dance held at the Continental was
that got up by a committee of 37 girls, with Hilda
Fisher and Margaret Rex as joint secretaries. The
Continental orchestra made delightful music.
Skies frowned on Regatta Day, but actual rain
held off, though the water was a trifle rough for
the oarsmen. The Domain was black with holiday-
makers, and the harbor alive with craft. Commodore
Holbrook and the officers of the squadron held an
at-home aboard the Australia. The vice-regal
party consisted of the Gov.-Gen. and the Lieut.-Gov.
with their consorts, and the A’s.D.C., Lieut. N. R.
Forrest, Lieut.-Col. L. H. Payne and Capt. H.
Brettingham Moore.
At the second Aerial Pageant held at Western
Junction the Derby winner was Mrs. F. Jackson.
The Aero Club celebrated by a dinner at the Bris-
bane in the evening, President Dr. J. Ramsay in
the chair.
Mrs. Norman Taylor, formerly Mabel Sprent, has
been staying with her sister, the Nicholls lady, for
part of the summer.


Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAkT
Via
AUCKLAND
N.Z.
SUVA and HONOLULU to
Vancouver . . . This is the attrac-
tive trans-Pacific route of British
vessels of the C-A Line.
Each of these ports has its indi-
vidual charm—all offer the
traveller unlimited possibilities
for enjoyment.
For further particulars apply
Union S. S. Co., Ltd.
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in "THE . BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
IbeAystralian Art Exhibition
THE MACLEOD '
tinPutldlnqs ]
252 Georqe Street
S; V O N e
See announcement page 13.
IDEAL
for the
Advertiser
Sunday is a day of leisure in West-
ern Australia, when the great open
spaces make an appeal to thousands
of people. They have time to read a
paper, and for 34 years thousands of
people have each week selected the
Perth
{Shu#
for Sunday reading. The man on the
land declares that it amply fulfils his
requirements for , the news of the
week.- ■ [
Shrewd advertisers desiring to
cover the valuable Western market
have ' consistently advertised in the
big pink Sunday paper. For results
there is nothing like it.
TRY IT FOR 1932.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains 'everything a woman needs to know.
The Man Who Smiled.
G. H. T ERNON’S
S.TORY OF MURDER AND VENGEANCE ON THE
THURSDAY ISLAND PEARLING GROUNDS.
THE morgue was in total darkness, its
deathly stillness broken only by a
drip from the sodden wrappings round
the body laid out on the leaded table.
. .. .Drip. . . . Drip. . . .
In the starlit tropic night, the waves,
washing gently up on the pebbles of the
beach, hummed in a gentle undertone, 1 and
now and again the men who waited outside
exchanged subdued remarks. But that, tiny
constant sound within the building dominated
both their conversation and the murmur of
the sea; it rang through their minds like tne
echo of a bell tolling for the dead form that
lay within.
... .Drip. . . .
The constable lying out on the short grass
of the beach lit another cigai’ette and held
the match shaded in his hand for his com-
panion.
“How much longer is this old devil going
to keep us, I wonder?”
“He said he would be down at eleven and
it’s just on that now,” answered the magis-
trate’s clerk. “'Prask’s a punctual beast —
he’ll be here on the tick.”
“Well, this won’t take him long; it was
a pure accident. The examination is only
a matter of form.”
“You don’t know Prask yet; he’ll make
a blinking mystery of it and prowl round
half the night. They say he never sleeps.”
“So long as he don’t keep me fooling round,
too, I don’t care. Say”
“H”st, he’s coming now. Have you got
your witness?”
“Yes, he’s just over there. Better light
up inside.”
The clerk drew himself up lazily from the
ground and lit a carbide lamp in the shelter
of the little iron building. Then he unlocked
the door of tlie : morgue and placed the lamp
on the writing-table, where it shone on the
big white square of blotting-paper and on the
glittering knives laid out on the shelf beyond.
The magistrate stepped into the circle of
light that came through the door and hur-
ried inside. He was a very short man with
a square, burly figure, forceful and quick in
speech and motion. Ah enigma to most
people, this surly,' capable official; but.
baffling as he was, a first glance gave to a
discerning eye the clue to the mainspring
of his character. From his closely bearded
face jutted an inquisitive-looking nose, the
sort of nose that-is always asking questions,
and is seldom at a loss to find an answer.
To probe deep into the, minds of men and
bring to light the hidden thoughts which lie
behind the false composure of a face seemed
to be the only pleasure; of' his life. This, and
his deep and secret drinking, which had lost
him many a position and brought him 1 -
his later years to this obscure settlement in
Northern Australia. “A first-class detec-
tive wasted,” said his acquaintances (he
had no friends) ; “more of a bloodhound
than a man”—and both opinions were just.
Enormous horn-rimmed glasses concealing
watchful eyes, blunt features, jet-black hair
and beard, kept so by the painstaking appli-
cation of some dye, completed the picture of
Edward Prask, magistrate and doctor.
He : gave no greeting to the men. but;
turning to the constable, aske.d him sharply
if he had got the particulars. , asked for.
When the envelope was handed. to him, he
took it with'a. quick, movement of, his hand
and tore. it open, glancing at its contents.
Then he turned his eyes upon the shrouded
body on the table, its mysterious outline
half-hidden, half-revealed under its heavy
wrappings.
“Fill up the details in the book.” he said
to the clerk. “Name, Aubrey Percival Escott;
age, twenty-nine; . master of the lugger
Clarice. Died at sea near Freya Reef, 10
a.m. to-day. Post-mortem held by order of
examining magistrate and medical officer.
Leave the cause of death open; I’ll fill
that up myself.” Then, muttering in
his beard : “Aubrey Percival! Hell! What
a name! Labelled by an adoring mother, I
suppose. Pity' he. came i to this so early in
his life. ' I suppose she . pictured a very dif-
ferent future for her boy. . . . No man deserves
a name like Aubrey Percival,” he growled
across at the clerk. “What d’ye think?”
The clerk looked impressed, but did not
answer.
“How did he meet his death. Constable?”
The story, as the constable repeated it seemed
a straightforward one. Escott was master of
the Clarice, on half-shares with his diver,
Kinzo Old. Usually the Japanese went down
below, but on that occasion, as she lay over
a rich patch of pearl-shell, Escott himself
was lowered in the dress, Kinzo paying out:
the air-line from the deck so that it fell
smoothly to the bottom. Presently, as the
lugger drifted with the fast-running tide, it
tightened like a rod of steel, and the men
straining at the rope entirely failed to free it.
It was plain to all on board that the cap-
tain had been caught by something down
below, and Kinzo, knife in hand, dived over-
board to help him. Kinzo found his man
jammed in a gap on the rocky bottom.
Furiously, so his story went, the diver
worked to free his captain, slashing with his
knife at the coral that gripped the line and
the entangled man, rising to the surface
when forced to for a breath of air. At last
he succeeded, and, after a heavy haul, the
body was brought to the deck. But the
rescue came too late; when they removed
his dress, he was already dead.
“Have you got the air-line here?” asked
the magistrate, after a pause.
“Yes, it’s in the corner there.”
“Bring it to me.”
Prask seized the long red hose, passing it
coil by coil through his short, broad fingers.
Presently he stopped and pointed to a gap-
ing hole some fathoms from the lower end.
.“How did this gash come here?”
“Oh, that! Kinzo showed it to me. It
was cut on a loose piece of copper-plating on
the vessel’s hull when the line dragged taut.”
Prask made no sign of disbelief, though
the, explanation did not satisfy him. He
scanned the remainder of the line, letting it
fall back on the floor when he had done.
“No suspicion of foul play, Constable?”
he asked.
“No, sir,” the constable said.
“Purely an accident, eh?”
“Quite. We went fully into the matter
with the Japanese.”
“I see. Have you got that down?” he
said turning to the clerk. “All right, you two
can go. Send Kinzo in to me.”
After the other two had left, the diver came
in, smiling amiably, and bowed low to Prask.
who, without looking up, gravely returned his
salutation.
The magistrate kept the newcomer waiting
several minutes.before he spoke. He had a
purpose in doing'so. When he had first heard
of the mishap his mind had turned to
thoughts 1 of • possible foul play, merely per-
haps because it was his nature to suspect.
The discovery of the cut in the air line just
below the surface had strengthened that sus-
picion, and now he hoped to pounce upon his
man.
The solemn drip-drip of water from the
form on the table, the faint sickly odor of
the dead, the evil repute of the little room
itself, all must, he thought, make an im-
pression on the, man, who had just. entered.
At any rate, Prask meant to make the most
of this influence, for to-night he purposed
ro lay bare the soul behind that smiling face
and learn from it the secret of Escott’s
death. Motives for the crime were not
difficult to guess at; some old grudge, some
quarrel about the division of the pearls, or,
perhaps, a woman —one of these was the
most frequent cause. Wait! Was there
not a tale of someone, some woman of the
underworld? H'is ordinarily keen but whisky-
sodden mind refused to recall the details for
the moment.
He glanced suddenly at the diver. Kinzo
Oki’s face, bland and innocent, met his look
quite openly; it wore the smile of one who
listens to a child that falters through a
verse of poetry, good-natured enough but
only half attentive. To a child that smile
would have been satisfying; to Kinzo’s anta-
gonist it came as a blow in the face, an
insult that he must wipe out.
“You speak English?” Prask asked
abruptly.
“Yes.”
“Good! We shall understand one another
then.”
He turned towards the table and pulled
down the cloth that covered Escott’s face;
slowly the wrappings slipped off to the floor.
The dead, with its bruised and swollen body,
lay stripped before them.
“Look at that man,” commanded Prask.
Tlie Jap bent forward in response without
a flicker on his countenance. They were
both of an' age, Prask judged as he watched
the' diver’s fresli-looking tanned cheeks, so
close to.the.pallid face on the table. Black
byes wqre staring hard at grey, which, cov-
ered with the film of death, stared in turn
at the shadowed ceiling of the shed.
That murderer and victim faced one
another was the magistrate’s belief, and by
bringing them thus together in the silence
of the night he hoped to break the diver’s
secrecy. But he had misjudged his man ; he
could discern no sign of fear or guilt, no
change in the inscrutable smile that dwelt
upon the diver’s youthful face.
He turned away, a little shaken himself
by the calmness of his witness, and started
upon his routine inspection of the dead.
When he had finished he rounded on the
other, using every art to wring his secret
from him. What followed was one of those
terrible ordeals that, practised to bring forth
confession, usually end that way, and Prask
was a pastmaster at the game. Until that
confession came, he knew that the evidence
of foul play was too slight to frame a case
upon. To achieve that end he used every
particle of his power and experience. But
Kinzo stood the examination well, and Prask
at the close felt that he had met his match.
Nerveless and sweating, beaten by the com-
posure of that smiling face, he motioned the
diver to the door.
“You finish?” said the Jap. “You make
one big mistake. I never kill that man.”
The diver’s ever-present smile, his final
insolence and the indifference of his tones
roused the magistrate to fury.
“By God, you did kill him!” he shouted.
“You cut that line yourself—your knife, so!”
It was the climax of a contest between
two stubborn wills, and. for an instant only,
Kinzo’s. smile vanished as they stared at
each other. Then he recovered himself and
the mask fell once again across his face.
“Can go now?” he asked in quiet tones
that contrasted strangely with the vehemence
of the magistrate.
There was no reply.
Bowing low, but still retaining his tri-
umphant grin, the diver left the morgue in
silence.
.I* # * *
Prask would have said that the ends of
justice were defeated, by a smile, perhaps;
and so. knowing what he did, might have
thought the smiling little Asiatic himself
as he hurried away.
But Fate may take a hand when Justice
fails. For Kinzo had killed Escott; nothing
surer. One stroke of the knife sufficed as
he followed down the air-line and Aubrey
Percival, caught in the coral far below,
became aware that death was near him
He struggled violently for a moment, till
the water, pouring in. drowned him in his
narrow tomb. .
Death! Perhaps in those last moments
of agony he wondered why it came to him;
and then, again, he might have guessed die
reason, since he had put himself in Kinzo’s
power. Surely his last thoughts turned to
Quita, the lovely half-caste girl who danced
and sang to the alien pearlfishers when they
came ashore. Quita had been Kinzo’s girl
till Escott stole her—a dangerous thing to
do. Yet Quita herself had been nothing
loath to go with Escott, and she had turned
eagerly enough from her slant-eyed mate
to the fair-haired captain, now cold and
silent in the morgue, just as she would
in time have left him for someone else.
As yet, however, her passion for Escott
was in full flame and his death was no
light thing to her. Secretly she crept
through the dimness of the night to the
morgue to see her man, to take one look
at liis features before he went for ever.
As she drew near, she stopped on hearing
the sound of voices within, and, with a
beating heart, bent down to listen at the
door. Prask’s final words: “By God, you
killed him!” made her realise that her old
lover had revenged himself. Well, she could
pay back, too, as Kinzo would find out.
She listened to the end and then hur-
ried back to tier little house, where she
waited for the diver’s sure return, calm and
fearless, fully resolved to play her : part.
Prask, stumbling home through the Asiatic
quarter, was stopped by the flash of a torch
in his face from the darkness and the
voice of the constable whispering his name.
“Doctor, Doctor! You are wanted here.
Kinzo’s dead.”
“Kinzo!”
“He’s lying just beside you by the wall.
Stabbed to the heart.”
“Dead? Why, he left the morgue only half
an hour ago. Who did it, do you know?”
“That half-caste girl, Quita; we have her
safe inside the house. She came and told
us he’d boasted to her that he’d killed Escott.
She’s done him in, without a doubt.”
“Let’s see the body.”
The constable led him a few steps up a
narrow passage, flashing his torch' upon the
walls. It fell on the dark object huddled
on the ground, and Prask bent down to
look at it.
“Justice,” he said, “attains its ends
always, Constable ; if not by law, then Fate
chooses its own time and its own means.”
_ The silent figure fascinated him. A deri-
sive smile still lay upon the diver’s face.
The Brocaded Curtain.
Shadowed the curtain hangs, and every
shade
Heavy with secrets; like a pool of wine
Within the floor, unfathomed and malign,
Its mirrored gleam lies captive. Flowers
fade,
Half-visible, in ancient bowls of jade
And twilight-buried crystal. Serpentine
The dragons writhe, a golden-threaded
line,
Malevolent, upon the puce brocade.
Ensconced in silver, waxen candles pale
Drown the dark curtain in a golden sea
Of radiance; and like a song begun
Softly, its color wakens with a tale
Of royal wines, and robes, and revelry,
And bloomy grapes, warm with imprisoned
sup. .
N.S.W.
PATRICLA O'RANE.


CONOMISE
bu takino
Dr. Morses Indian Root Pills
In the present great need for economy, an important
point is to realise that economy does not mean going
without necessities, but an avoidance of unnecessary
expenses.
In the latter category a frequently heavy item is
ill-health, which, in addition to medical expenses, often
Involves loss of wages, and even employment.
Hence it is essential to keep a careful watch on one s
health, the first and greatest precaution being to see that
the bowels operate regularly — at least once a day.
This is one of Nature s laws, and woe betide those
who defy it.
To maintain the bowels and other organs of
digestion in a regular condition, Nature often requires
some assistance. For the purpose, Dr. Morses Indian
Root Pills are specially suited, and bear a world-wide
reputation. 1 hey stir the Liver, cleanse the Stomach,
and stimulate the Bowels, thus opening and toning the
clogged-up system, and making it better able to combat
Life's Little Daily Ills.
Dr. Morses
nnmimumwt
*
a*
rnmrnmm*
L^Sssi
('mb
juhu^HVtUU 1 ! 11 ’^
tjggs
L
El
Dr. Morses Indian Root Pills are a high-grade preparation sold at a low price.
Is Your Child
Afflicted with
Worms?
Their Symptoms and
Treatment
Worms, by their movements and the inter-
ruption they offer to the contents of the
Bowels, generally occasion pain or uneasi-
ness in the abdomen, sometimes spasmodic,
sometimes gnawing and biting, and not in-
frequently of a vague, indescribable char-
acter and yet very distressing. Sympathetic
with this is a sensation of itching at the
Nostrils, producing a disposition to pick the
Nose, which is characteristic of the affection.
The bowels are often disordered, sometimes
relaxed, as in Dysentery. The appetite is
exceedingly variable; in some cases natural,
in others deficient, craving, or depraved, one
condition not infrequently alternating, with
another. The Abdomen is often hard, swol-
len and tympanetic, the breath heavy or
foetid, and tongue furred, with disagreeable
taste, and a copious flow of saliva; swelling
of the upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils and
disposition to grind the teeth during sleep
are other characteristic symptoms. The
effects, however, often extend beyond the
Alimentary Canal, and various derange-
ments of health are experienced in conse-
quence, either of the direct irritation of
the worms or of the disordered digestion
which they occasion. Among the most com-
mon of these are nervous affections, such as
fretfulness, irritation of temper, wakeful-
ness or disposition to excessive sleep, dis-
turbed sleep, sudden starting out of sleep
as if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic move-
ments of the eyelids, temporary blindness
and deafness. General convulsions are not
infrequent in children, and symptoms
strongly resembling “Water on the Brain’
have been ascribed to worms, and have ceased
or. their expulsion.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to recog-
nise the fact that their little ones are suffer-
ing intense pain and distress, and are
practically irresponsible for the outbursts
of temper, restlessness and peevishness, and
until some more serious symptoms appear
nothing is done to alleviate the distress. The
symptoms of this disease are somewhat vari-
able* but generally they are so characteristic
that no mother need have any doubts. The
best proof of worms is worms, and if the
general conduct of the child is such as to
give the slightest suspicion a careful watch
will afford ample proof.
A child who is affected with Thread
Worm will often appear to the eye to be in
an indifferent state of health. It becomes
peevish and irritable in its temper. Another
point to which the attention of mothers
should be specially directed is that the child
is apt to start in its sleep, its repose being
in this way of a disturbed nature.
iComstock’s “Dead Shot” W orm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
compounded on a scientific principle for
the eradication of worms which infest the
intestines. They contain specific properties
which destroy the worms but cause no injury
to the Stomach or Bowels, and do not
weaken the system. The pellets are pre-
pared in the form of a confection or lolly,
have no disagreeable taste or smell, but, on
the contrary, inspire children to take them
as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or
direct from the AV. H, Comstock Co. Ltd.,
2?, Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney. Price,
4/- per packet (ti packets, 23/-, post free).
If writing, please mention The Bulletin.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2-52188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which l enclose £.
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-: 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
iiW'
f
S. f
1
5 e
e
•
.•• <^V 6 on>
.• *‘ S V
C*' *‘^.*t*^


Healthy Nerves
An enthusiastic
Sanatogen user—
one of the many thousands of grate-
ful people to whom a course of-C:
Sanatogen meant the end of theii
nerve-troubles and a return to Health
and Strength—
writes as follows
“ There is nothing like
Sanatogen. Step by
step it pieces the
nerves together. It pro-
motes soothing sleep,
stops palpitation and
puts new life into one.”
MRS. C. TOOTELL,
'NOTTINGHAM.
While another writes:
“To me it seems al-
most like a miracle. I
could not have be-
lieved Sanatogen could
do so much good in
such a short time.”
MISS L STANSFIELD,
SALOP.
SANATOGEN will do you good. It will do
good to the whole of your family. Sanatogen
builds healthy, happy home life by
conquering nervousness and fatigue.
CENATOSAN LTD.. LOUGHBOROUGH. ENGLAND.
Healthy nerve cell of
human body, magni-
fied 1,000 times.
Strengthen your nerves
with
SANATOGEN
The True Tonic-Food
u Sanatogen goes to the very core of well-
being, viz. the cells, and builds these up
into a lasting fabric of health.” In these
few words short and to the point
a well-known physician describes the
action of Sanatogen. Sanatogen is made
specially to feed the nerves, which in
these modern times are so often subject
to extra strain. The constituents of
Sanatogen—glycerophosphate and
albumin —are the essential building
materials for nerves and muscles.
By going to ihe “core” of the complaint,
Sanatogen conquers listlessness,
stomach trouble, sleeplessness, etc., all
of which arise from a common source
nerve weakness.
Over 24,000 physicians recommend
Sanatogen in writing. Follow their
advice regain health and strength
by taking Sanatogen.
Ask your Chemist
for a tin.
/
Sanatogen is an invest*
Vnent in Good Health.
