

y
:5>
c-
wtk
L
0-0
o
cy
Q
0 O O
/
d
.■.vSS
1
I
K'
m
1
m
m
v§?
030
-s
m
si
O
)
S-s
o
*
kV
>>
c
NOW IN A REGAL
DECANTER...
as befits a spirit of high degree
• It would be utterly out of perspective to
fill a fine decanter with any but the choicest
of old Scotch Whiskies.
So this handsome piece of glassware contains a
full bottle of King George IV. Whisky—the
spirit and the decanter thus doing full justice
one to the other.
You will appreciate King George IV. Whisky
because it has the mellowness and lightness
preferred by nine men out of ten, combined with
the full, round flavor of rare old Highland malt
that gives it its distinctive character.
The Decanter of
King George IV.
Whisky, bearing no
permanent advertis-
ing matter, is sold at
all hotels and clubs
and costs very little
more than the stan-
dard quart bottle.
If you have difficulty in
obtaining, communicate with
the Distributors: —Distillers
Distributing Co., Ltd., Syd-
ney, Melbourne, Perth; G. F.
Cleland & Sons, Ltd., Adel-
aide; Thos. Brown & Sons,
Ltd., Brisbane; Cummins &
Campbell, Ltd., Townsville;
T. McLaughlin & Co., Rock-
hampton, who will see you
are supplied.
KJSSr. liGOlHill IV.
liOKill IjAHEIj
SCOTCH WHISKY
A RIGHT ROYAL SPIRIT
The Bulletin
"J&o yyiaAtM a —(P 8
Vol. 53. —No. 2745.
Wednesday, September 21, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
;
u*
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College.
• 100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prosvectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System ‘ of Writing <u
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Same
My Address
S.B. 332
tYSAGHTP
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
h,
V
■e*.
\ t
V?
*
\
°o
Your Children!
Guajrd their tender skins by
using Culienrffi Soap reg-
ularly from the day of birth.
Assist with the Ointment, if
required, to soothe and heal
e
any irritations.
■*. ■ '
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d,
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
. IQIdlVd 3HI
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
A LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian anil
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians aim cordially
invited to visit'the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices.
414-17 Australia House, Strand, Londou,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“THE AGE”
Established, 1864.
Victoria’s Leading Moraine? Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 119,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
i is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in ali States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
If You Want Queensland Trade,
You Must Advertise in
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
This great Queensland dai3y, and its
companion journal, the “Sunday
Mail,’’' give a second-to-none
“cover” in the metropolitan area and
in country districts. Their popu-
larity is explained by their brightness
and the all-round excellence of their
news features. The strong circulation
position of both papers is revealed by
recently issued independently verified
audited certificates. Rate ./cards, etc.,
from
Robert Jackson*
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(’Phone: 81522.)
hat a market-
for the manufacturer is presented in
a big centre. Thousands of poten-
tial customers gathered together
on a fraction of land. Whole-
sale and retail distributors
centred in accessible points.
A concentrated market for luxuries
with a surrounding trade area - in-
satiable in its demands. This market is
penetrated thoroughly and successfully by
“THE TELEGRAPH’’
Brisbane's Leading Home Newspaper.
The manufacturer is more
often wrong than right
when he says , “My busi-
ness is different Often
it is exactly that differ-
ence whrch is fairly
crying out for expres-
sion in print.
7 s that so with
■\>y
you ?
■
IeTEIEGRAPI-i
LEADS THE WAY
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
The Irish Problem
For 10 years after 1921 Ireland was in
the happy position of being out of the
world’s news. The Free State prospered.
Its agricultural products began to beat
those of the rest of the world on the London
market. “Dirty Dublin” became one of the
cleanest and best-governed cities in Europe.
The tourist trade boomed, and English
wealth began to appear again at the Shel-
boume,in Meath hunting-fields, at the Dublin
Horse Show and the great southern race-
meetings. The Government was ready to
work for peace with England, and unity by
negotiation with Ulster. President Cos-
grave said to the present writer in 1927:
“England has kept every promise she made
us in the letter and spirit. It will be time
to think of quarrelling again when she
breaks one.” A few months ago the political
pendulum swung, a De Valera Government
arrived, and the old feuds were revived.
The Southern Irish can laugh at the de-
pression if they want to. All they have to
sell, from store cattle to stout, commands
top prices on the other side of the
Irish Sea. Their new Government has
sacrificed these advantages, and threat-
ened thousands of small shopkeepers and
tens of thousands of small farmers, horse-
breeders, etc., and their dependants with
ruin. Yet the Free State doesn’t seem to
mind. This is what puzzles onlookers who
are not Irish. The books of the two Irish-
men which are reviewed below try to ex-
plain it. The first has just been published;
the second was written 10 years ago, but it
is a complement and an interpretation of
the other and should be read with it by
those who want to learn something of the
soul of Ireland.
A Southern Unionist
Lord Midleton, author of Ireland—Dupe
or Heroine (Ileinemann; 7s. 6d.), belongs to
a Co. Cork family, and was one of the first
Free /'State senators. He became leader of
the southern Unionists after succeeding to
the earldom (having made his mark in the
House of Commons as St. John Brodriek);
he warned the Government of the day of
the 1916 rebellion, and conferred with De
Valera, whom he knows well, before the
1921 settlement. So, according to his Pro-
testant and Imperialistic lights, he can
claim to speak with authority. He begins
with Ireland's past sufferings. From the
earliest records the tribes of Ireland fought
hard for land and plunder, and by the
Norman Conquest foreigners had begun to
join in. A chronic state of civil war led to
English intervention (on the principle,
which still prevails, that the disunited
possessors of a desirable country must be
disciplined for their own good), and it led,
later, to “the flight of the earls,” which was
responsible for partition. The lands of the
rebels were handed over to Scotch and
English equivalents of our remittance-men,
and a holy war was soon declared on the
usurpers.
The excesses on both sides are estimated
to have destroyed 500,000 people, one-third
of the Irish population.
Ghastly, of course, but this was the be-
ginning of the seventeenth century, when
atrocities were taken for granted—the
Thirty Years’ War .made , a desert of the
Palatinate, and reduced the population of
Germany by 10,000,000. William III. raised
Irish indignation to boiling-point because,
like Cromwell, he tried to achieve pacifica-
tion by one stroke. He would have saved
millions of Irish lives if he had succeeded,
and so ended the raids and forays by which
the country had been depopulated for cen-
turies, but of course he didn’t.
The Battle of the Boyne left an indelible
mark on Ireland itself as well as on Anglo-
Irish relations. For ever afterwards there
were tw r o Irelands; Catholic and Protestant,
South and North, anti-England and pro-
England.
The author makes no attempt to con-
done the subsequent iniquities and stupidi-
ties which helped to rob both North and
South of their best men, and gave the
U.S.A. an Irish population of nearly
20,000,000. But misgovernment wasn’t
wholly to blame for the exodus. Ireland,
with no coal or iron, can never support
a big population. There was emigration at
the height of Cosgrave’s boom regime. And
whatever crimes the English committed
when the whole world was relentless,
they did their best to atone when it grew
more enlightened. Shortly before the Great
War the total trade
of Ireland stood at
£28 per head, as
against £20 per
head in Britain;
the Savings Bank
deposits had risen
from £4,000,000 to £12,000,000, and the de-
positors from 261,000 to 662.000. “When
Ireland was in 1921 handed over to the
Irish,” said Lord Justice O’Connor, “more
had been done for the people by the State
[i.e., by the English taxpayers] than in any
country on the face of the globe.”
A Northern Nationalist
In Doomsland (Chatto and Windus-; The
Roycroft, Sydney), Mr. Shane Leslie tells
the story of an Ulster family which might
be his own. Lord Midleton writes object-
ively, like a sympathetic Englishman; Mr.
Leslie’s point of view is that of' a Catholic
Celt, though he was at Eton and has spent
most of his life outside Ireland. The first-
named is concerned chiefly with history,
the other with its results. The theme of
Doomsland is the disintegration of a great
Irish family, symbolic of Ireland, the Land of
Doom of the Celtic keening; and the theory
of the novelist is that, whoever was t°
blame for the wrongs of the past, whether
the English persecuted wantonly or the Irish
brought some of their troubles on them-
selves by their truculent pride (“What
Ireland lacks is humility,” wrote Bene-
dict XV.), the national character has been
profoundly modified, and is now fixed.
Ireland, he says, suffers from having no
intervening middle class between the upper
and lower millstones. Its few politicians,
land agents and tradesmen hardly count.
Such cities as Ireland boasts are all sea-
ports, as though for centuries half the popu-
lation were trying to get in and the other
half to get out.
The people who might have formed a
middle class like the one which is England’s
backbone have concentrated in Belfast.
Their Protestantism wouldn’t have mattered
if they could have been diffused (“the
English middle class is not Church of Eng*
land, and the French middle class is anti-
clerical”), but they never can be nows
There is nothing _ static' about the other
classes. The rich Presbyterians and
Catholics are constantly decimated and
washed over to England, and the poor
Presbyterians and Catholics are similarly
decimated and washed over to America.
Class hates, land hates, religious hates
have made them unique as a race. The
principal character of Doomsland , an
Ulster landlord* is talking of the people
he has lived among all his life.
“The Irish are the most amazing people
in Europe, the most faithful servants, and
the most relentless enemies. They enjoy
enmity. They would rather be bitter than
bored.”
The landlord’s companion refers to their
drinking-bouts.
‘‘lt’s their terrible sobriety between drinks
that makes them so susceptible to a drink
wdien it comes. The same devotional inten-
sity that makes some saints sends many to
drink. When they take to the next world
they flee this like sw r ine fever.”
Irish holiness is to blame for the backward
state of the South which so scandalised
Macaulay—on this both writers agree. It is
impossible to serve God and Mammon effici-
ently. You can’t make sure of saving your
soul and amass a lot of money; each is a
whole-time job. The training of the priests,
which is not much concerned with the
things of this world, doesn’t inspire them
to make their flocks think along utilitarian
lines. In the Catholic Church,” observes
Lord Midleton, “the only star is the
Spiritual Star.’ So the Irish, in addition
to their preference for bitterness rather than
borddom, are easily led into movements
which may be dead against their material
interests by plausible worldlings.
If the theories of these two Irishmen are
correct much of Ireland’s past history is
explained, and her hopes of future happi-
ness and prosperity are faint.
RED PAGE.
The King’s School
In The History of the King’s School, by
the Rev. S. M. Johnstone, M.A. (published
by the School Council and the Old Boys’
union),. Australia is given a record of the
oldest of her Great Public Schools that
see “s to the writer of this review (himself
an Old Boy) to be as good a piece of work
as anyone interested in the subject might
reasonably expect, The story of the
school s foundation and its hundred years
of existence has been told with a care and
minuteness that few authors could have
lavished upon such a task unless they
were in love with it. Although he has
been for many years one of the governors
of the school, the author is not an Old
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—The Foundation of Confidence.
“THE SENIOR STORE.’
SUMMER APPROACHES...and with it MOTORING
But no trip can be Ideal, for yourself or your car, without
AN AUTO TENT
r
Vi.:,''.’ .» • 1
V>'.U
*
S V*
w.v«l*
4416
Features
• Simplicity
• High Quality
• Low Price
"THE QUICK CAMPER”
A Motor Lean-to Tent which can be erected in a few minutes.
Every motorist who values his time would find it invaluable.
Height, 6ft. 6in.; walls sloping to 3ft. 6in.; size of room, 9ft. x 9ft.
6ft. flap goes over hood only and fastens to car with ropes. Calico
curtain between car and tent. Made from strong Tent Calico.
Complete with ropes, pegs and poles. Price 44/6
In Boz. Duck. Price 59/6
£slsi-
Complete with
• Ropes
• Pegs
• Poles
M
zr \
L
’■■.•Hi
Our “SPECIAL”"MOTOR TENT
Our “Special” Auto Tent is easily and quickly erected, and the
roof is guaranteed waterproof. Height, 6ft. 6in., walls sloping to
3ft. 6in., size of room 9ft. x 9ft. 6ft. flap goes over hood on\y
and fastens to car with ropes. Calico curtain between car and
tent. Khaki Birkmyre roof, Boz. Duck walls. Complete with
ropes, pegs, four collapsible poles, 6ft. 6in., and three poles 3ft. 6in.
Price each <
Motor Car Covers
*5
caa
\
jVV .<T- ■
THE JOY
OF THE OPEN ROAD
Don't Miss It!
Soon the summer will be here and again
the happy hordes of motorists and
campers will throng the many beautiful
resorts with which our country abounds.
But even the brightest summer must have
its storms, so don’t spoil your trip by a
lack of adequate equipment. A reliable
motor tent will quickly prove its use to
every motorist, and at Anthony Horderns’
you’ll get the right tent at the right price.
The “Marquee” Tent
PS
r
A
In Calico .
For the travelling motorist who cannot garage his car we recommend AX
Quality Tent Calico Cover. Often used as a temporary garage, it is shown
Birkmyre Proofed.
Recommended and Guaranteed by
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Limited
The “Marquee” Auto Tent is an ideal tent for any motorist. Very roomy,
it has a calico division which provides two distinct rooms. The roof is
Birkmyre Proofed, and the whole tent incorporates a standard of workman-
ship which cannot be found lacking. Complete with ropes attached, Bft.
centre pole, eight 6ft. telescopic poles, 16 small and 12 large galvanised
tent pegs and tent and pole bags.
Size:
12ft. x 12ft.
£7/19/6
Size:
15ft. x 15ft.
£l O/5/-
Double-sided
“MARQUEE”
Auto Tent
£lsiisi-
Birkmyre
Roof.
Department—
Ground Floor,
Pitt Street.
\=
r
*
"S
7*
J-J
t
¥t\\-
&
X
>5
#*WB
**** tey/t '^(Xv
’
Double-sided Marquee Auto Tents. Size 15ft x 20ft. Guaranteed waterproof khaki Birkmyre root,
with White Duck walls. Centre poles Bft. high, while the side walls reach a comfortable height ot
6ft. Room for car 6ft. x 15ft. Two living-rooms, each 7ft. x 15ft. Calico partitions between car and
living-room make it protective and private. Outfit consists of 2 poles Bft. and 14 po es ~ a
collapsible, 18 large galvanised-iron pegs and 24 small pegs. Tent and pole bags. necessar;
and slides attached to tent. Price, each *l7/in/
The same Tent, with better quality Duck walls. Price / '
MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL TENTS LESS SEAMS AND HEMS.
2 Living Rooms,
Garage
and Shelter
£l5/isi-
Birkmyre
Roof.
Carriage—
NOT PAID
on Auto Tents
Anthony Horderns'
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.


W®
fW<
Ift
!?*»
v i
- {
ill'
SSSB
H
Kgs
N- %
k m
m
.
»Wlll
mmm:
m<m.
mHmm
I
m
: i.
■&<■■ \
mysare^
DAYS
With rosy cheeks and sparkling eyes, the little
kiddies toddle off to school. Yet dangerous
germs are easily contacted in the course of
their daily lives. And besides, nasty cuts and
scratches can become most troublesome if not
attended to. Tenax Soap with its refreshing,
cleansing, germicidal lather, offers splendid
protection from infection of every kind.
Tenax Is the only soap containing Ti-trol
Tenax contains ti-trol, the germicide more powerful than car-
bolic but NON-IRRITANT and NON-POISONOUS. As you
lather with Tenax you liberate the Ti-trol antiseptic which
penetrates into the pcres —neutralises infection and leaves the
skin clear and healthy. Tenax is invaluable for all cuts and
abrasions —rashes and skin eruptions.
Tenax corrects Dandruff
Used as a shampoo Tenax does more than cleanse the scalp.
It destroys dandruff organisms, invigorates the glands and
nourishes the hair. You will be amazed how easily the hair
can be set after a shampoo with Tenax.
m
wm
.
m
m
CONTAINING TI-TROL
Although invaluable as a germicide, Tenax is a delightful
Toilet Soap —pure, soothing and transparent, lathers freely
and has no disagreeable odour of disinfectant.
TEN A X
T he Genuinely Germicidal Toilet Soap
AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
"KEEP THE SUNSHINE IN YOUR HAIR* 4


mm
RDOCHS
—Where you
“Pay Less and
Dress Better ”
Men's Worsted
Sac Suits
Quality linked with economy!
For business and general wear,
these Mardoch-made Summer-
weight Worsted Sac Suits for
men are ideal. Serviceable Grey
shade. Scientifically graded
sizes ensure perfect fitting. Ready
for service, in chest measure-
ments 34in. to 46in. SYDNEY’S
GREATEST VALUE AT 49/6.
25/- Men’s
Hats for
IS/ 9
Pure Fur Felt Hats for men in
“Snap Brim” model. Light, Mid
and Dark Grey, Fawn, Beaver
and Brown. Silk lined.
7/6 Men’s
Shirts .......
5,3
Men’s Poplin de Luxe Golf Shirts,
woven stripes in harmonious
colorings. Gollar to match. Sizes
13* to 16*.
25/- Boys'
Suits
18/11
Dark Grey Tweed “Canberra”
style Suits for boys. Plain knee
knickers. Sizes 4 to 12.
Also Men’s 7/6 Pyjamas, 5/11
Men’s 4/6 Broadway Ties, 1/6
Boys’ 5/11 Knickers, 3/11; Boys
2/11 Golf Hose, 1/6.
We Pay Freight.
Address Letters to Desk R.
i i
“Still rising in public estimation.”
Boy, and on the whole—though it is cer-
tain they will not be so without exception
—this is a fact with which those Old Boys
who will read the book hypercritically
ought to be very well satisfied. For, to
any alumnus of any school or college, the
conception of it which he has in his mind
after active membership of its roll has
ceased is a picture of it as it was when
he knew it himself. It is almost impossible
to think of it in any other way, and it
seems inevitable that the life story of a
G.P.S. can be done adequately only by one
who has never been boy or master there,
but has studied it as a looker-on.
The present writer was at T.Iv.S. about
40 years ago, during the latter part of the
headmastership of the Rev. A. St. John
Gray, and for five years under his successor,
the Rev. Dr. Harris, so he is quite well
able to pick one or two holes in the author’s
account of the school during the five and
a half years in which he was very familiar
with what is now history but was then
contemporary fact. Other men are still
alive who could do the same thing cover-
ing the years between the beginning of the
eighteen-fifties and that of the twentieth
century, but it is pretty certain that they
couldn’t review the whole hundred years
nearly so well as could an “outsider,” what-
ever errors he may fall into with regard to
particular periods. This is not to make
arty apology for Mr. Johnstone’s perform-
ance of his job—it is only to say that in
such a job a percentage of error is to be
expected. The quality of the whole is its
own apology, and it is quite permissible to
remark that this book needs none at all.
Evidence of careful research—such as no
one who has not done this sort of work can
quite appreciate—and necessary condensa-
tion are two of the most noteworthy fea-
tures of the book. Into its 415 octavo
pages the author has succeeded in getting
everything that really matters of origin,
history, personal biography, scholarship
and games, and this is high achievement.
The book is the outcome of three years’
hard work, and between its covers are to
be found a full account of the starting of
the school by Bishop Broughton, the story
of its development, and the contribution it
has made to the cause of higher education
in Australia. Every aspect of school life
is presented (even to the looting of Parra-
matta orchards), including both scholastic
and sporting records. The relation of the
growth of the school to the general progress
of education in New South Wales is shown
at several stages of the work. In a sort
of appendix is contained the roll, giving
the names of over 4000 boys who were at
the school between 1832 and 1931, and
there are tables of enlistments for the South
African and the Great War. There ate 50
illustrations, faultlessly reproduced by the
printers. (A John Sands went to T.K.S.
in 1868, and there is one there now.)
To the general reader, perhaps the most
interesting feature of the book will be
found in the individual stories of the 13
men who have guided the destinies of the
school between the time when the Rev.
Robert Forrest opened it in 1832 and the
Rev. E. N. Baker—who is on the eve of
retirement—celebrated its centenary in
February of this year. Indeed, the history
of the school groups itself under their
headmasterships. All of them have been
good men and good schoolmasters, and
some have been truly “great” in the widest
sense of the term. Each of us who served
our time there usually supposes his own
chief to have been “the daddy of ’em all,”
but when the 13 are judged in their right-
ful perspective—say, 50 years hence—the
ghost of this scribe will be greatly surprised
if the present H.M. is not adjudged to have
been the greatest of this baker’s dozen of
scholars and gentlemen and fine citizens of
Australia.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Thirty Years Ago
Old Blastus of Bandicoot, by Miles
Franklin (Lothian, 7s. 6d.), is more than a
fine novel. It reconstructs the life of the
N. S. Wales Southern Tableland before
Canberra was chosen as the Federal capital,
and interprets it on lines that should be
of great value to future historians. The
average young Australian is bewildered as
well as amused by Steele Rudd’s
objectively-drawn characters. He has never
met such people, yet they seem authentic.
This book explains them and their loyalties,
enthusiasms and prejudices. They were the
last of the pioneers of the State’s richest
regions; settlers in whom hospitality and
neighborliness were inbred by force of iron
circumstance; the humble ancestors of
those who now attend garden parties at
Buckingham Palace.
The story is old-fashioned in form; each
chapter begins with a rhymed foretaste of
what is to follow. But the reader’s atten-
tion is caught almost at once by the fresh-
ness of the style, and the naturalism and
humor of the dialogue, and it never wanders
again. Blastus is considerably higher in the
financial scale than Steele Rudd’s Dad. He
is an Australian prototype of H W. Free-
man’s splendid old farmer in “Fathers of
Their People,” with the difference that he
is a stern moralist. He has the same pas-
sion for perfection in crops, animals and
farming generally; the same scorn of
slovenliness or inefficiency; the same readi-
ness to help those in trouble with the
unrelenting elements, and the same courage
m adversity. Also the same touchy inde-
pendenee. He even has' a similar pride of
birth, though the Brandishes had farjned
their land for centuries, and the most
glorious memory that Blastus can look back
on is an elder brother who was the first
white child born on the Murmmbidgee.
The plot hinges on a feud between the
Barry and Lindsey families. Mabel, old
Barry’s eldest, has “gone wrong” with a
Lindsey in the past, and pretty 18-year-old
Dora Barry takes the gangling, illiterate
lad who slaves about the place for her
brother. Then Dora and Ross Lindsey—a
radiant young man who wears riding-
breeches and drives a car —are attracted
and the drama begins. Old Blastus is
maddened by his daughter’s modern ways.
“I want to speak about your behavior. If you
want to be pop’lar you shouldn’t be so snippy to
Mick Bell. It’s not ladylike.”
Dora had no desire to be popular with Mick
Mel). “I thought you said it was the sign of a
jail-bird to try to be popular.”
“Now, my girl, I’ve told you before not to be
pert. Mick Bell is as fine and honest a man as
you’ll find; and he’ll have a home of his own
when some of these flash squibs are sold up by the
bailiffs.”
“Old pipe-sucker! He’ll get lost in his beard one
of these days. You ought to run a fire-break in it
for him.”
This is the Victorian era, but Dora stands
up to her bellowing father as valiantly, not
to say contemptuously, as any modern, and
he caves in as miserably as any present-
day father. All the characters are drawn
with the'sure hand of intimate knowledge
—Blastus, an honest, stupid old bully,
spoiled by too much power and foredoomed
to be outwitted all round for his own
good; sly Concertina Mick, who knows
what he wants and gets it; the Lindseys,
who have a natural social sense, and are
already, to the fury of Blastus, storming
the fashionable world of Sydney; Arthur,
Mabel’s boy, with his unfortunate Lindsey
face, and, above all, Mabel. Poor Mabel,
who, since her slip, has been a kind of
voluntary outcast, is a tragic masterpiece.
The book has a happy ending, but it is a
likely, almost an inevitable,, one. There
are some splendid descriptive passages, in-
cluding the best account of a fight with a
bush-fire that this critic has read, but
the characterisation’s the thing. Nothing
so good has been done in any previous
novel about the Australian bush.
J.D.
The National Song Competition
“Let me make the ballads of a people,
and I care not who makes the laws.” The
old tag doesn’t mean that ballad-makers
earn a greater measure of lasting fame, much
less money, but that they exercise more
influence on their country’s destiny. Poems
often inspire laws—“ The Song of the Shirt”
was chiefly responsible for the crusade
against sweating in England—but few laws
have inspired poems. Irishmen have
marched proudly to battle with “The
Wearin’ of the Green” ringing in their
ears, and Frenchmen have done the same
to the .strains of the “Marseillaise”; but
who ever got similarly emotional over an
Act of Parliament? Burns is thought more
of north of the Tweed than all the law-
makers that Scotland has sent to West-
minster. So whoever turns out to be the
ultimate writer of Australia’s national
anthem—the man or woman who provides
the Commonwealth with a song that ■ will
supersede the conflicting State anthems for
all time—he or she will achieve a glorious
position in the country’s history. The
immortal may very well be the winner of
the National Song Competition. Or even,
since literary judges are not infallible, one
of the also-rans.
Anyhow, the competition will insure that
there are no mute, inglorious Miltons in
our midst this year. Anybody can enter;
there is no limit to the number of entries
an individual writer may send in; and
entries are free. The only requirements
are that entries shall be ’in by November
16, that they shall be signed with a pen-
name (with the real name in a separate
sealed envelope) and addressed “Song Com-
petition,” Bulletin Office, Box 252188,
G.P.0., Sydney. First prize, £25; second,
£lO, and there will be five consolation
prizes of £1 each; all the winners to be
announced, if possible, in The Bulletin
issue of December 14. The Bulletin and
Woman’s Mirror reserve the right to pub-
lish any of the songs, and to allow them
to be set to music and sung without royal-
ties.
And a. Little Verse
SONG.
Waste not sweet Life in toil,
Nor yet in thought,
For mind and labor’s spoil
Is dearly bought;
Ah, mine own heart, ’tis very dearly bought!
For thirst is Labor’s gift,
And as we die
To Life tired bands we lift—
Her cup is dry.
Ah, mine own heart, we thirst —her cup is
W.A.
C. M. KASNER.
HOW FADE THE COLORS!
How fade the colors as the day comes on,
The grey, the rose, the purple and the
deep, dark blue!
How fade the eyes that hourly watched the
dawn.
And burned the lonely, long’ night vigil
through!
I dreamed of a late budding in the east
When the last mottled leaf of twilight
should be gone,
And like a rose should burst the close-
wrapped years—
Tlow fade the colors as the day comes on!
VICTORIA.
ALFRED L. DIXON.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken
of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability
is undertaken re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
F.J.8.: All too overlaid with Biblical sug-
gestion ; but that doesn’t at all mean that the
spiritual poem is taboo... .N.P.: Promise in them.
But avoid “wakeneth” and the like. It you are
a singer of to-day, use to-day’s forms.... Michael F.:
You’ve got words; now find the thoughts to match
them... . J.8.C.: Artificial in matter and manner. ...
A.E. (Q) : Very , feeble. .. .F.Y.H.: But it doesn’t
lead to anything. .. .Betterton: Another Cooper's
Creek yarn—just fades out... .Kathleen M.: Keep on.
There is much promise in your songs... .M.M.: Has
the virtue of sincerity; but those ashes are cold.
....Isobel D.: What, another garden of Desire?
Still, it’s September... ,D.A.S.: Not a bad picture,
but why all the aggravating jerkiness?. .. .W.G.8.:
A long, long way after Byron... .Ex-G.P.: Labored
jingle. Creaks, too, badly in places'.. ..C.E.G.:
Pleasant enough verse, but there’s no quality in it.
... .Umor: Pitiful doggerel... .E.A.: Afraid it’s too
prosy... .H.0.L.: Mostly rough as bags. You've got
a long way to go before the law of copyright will
be of any interest to you... .S.M.P.: Woodenness
could go no further.... M.1.P.: Graphic, but hardly
workmanlike enough... .A.E.: Unpolished... .W.T.C. :
Trite... .D.G.S.: Hopeless as written, but go ovci
it again.. . .J.E.R.: You’re wasting your time....
11. W.: An old trick... .G.M.A.: No g00d... .A.G.:
Incredible, as you say... .E. 5.8.: Might do for a go-
getters’ magazine, if there’s one about... .S.D.: The
old chap may be a champion beereater, but he’s no
storyteller. .. .G.T.E.: Condense, condense!... .F.C.:
Readers are not as gullible as you imagine... .8.R.:
The hero is a hopeless prig and his love affairs are
tedious... .Sirob: Can’t see you dethroning any of
the established writers.... J.L.: Came a cropper....
T.J.N.: Assassin ended bis revolting career in the
W.p.b K.J.: Only an outline... .IT.M.: Mere
beating about the bush... .M.J.D.: You have a
stately style, but no new ideas... .F.P.: Don’t
know; it seemed to fit best that way—Mother
England calling her cubs; Father England facing
the world with his progeny... .N.L.M;: That’s the
spirit. Pains us to say that the verse doesn’t
match it... .N.A.R.: Ponderous. (N. 8.: Never write
a Spring song after a Sunday dinner.)... .Leon F.:
“They dream of a state of nectarian lust.” Gosh,
that’s a good one !.... J.8.R.: Platitudes that we’ve
said good afternoon to a hundred times... .L.J.R.:
Has quality; but it bumps... .C.C. (N.S.W.):
Thistledown... .L.D.S.: No roost here.... 8.W.:
Destroyed accordingly... .Bellerive: Now for the
first of a short natural-history series: —
I—THE BORER.
By a chemical poison
In time can be checked,
The destruction of wood
By the notorious insect.
The worm-like borer
With its wiry jaws
Little holes in furniture
It deeply gnaws.
If to its drilling pregrass
’Tis left unchecked,
Serious damage is done
By the horrid insect.
.... R.M.P.: Quite well done; but others have done
it so often Thomas M.: There’s music in you.
But you’re not ripe for print yet Cornstalk: The
directness of it almost carried it in.... J.E.S.:
Struggling through your verse is like getting bogged
in the blacksoil plains... .Zero: You’re too hard on
undertakers... .8.G.: We fear he’s forgotten long
ago. And your handwriting is villainous... .P.G.:
But there are limits to our “appetite for original,
dyed-in-the-wool Australian material,” and we can’t
stomach your tritely blasphemous bullocky....
Cornstalk: Below the mark, but not without a
glimmer of promise... .M.1.P.: Why don’t you try
some less jerky, jazzy metre? The theme itself is
quite g00d.... R.M.W.: Not ill done, but it smacks
of the mock-heroic... .R. the G.: Undisciplined
fluency.... K.W.: The girl may be fair, but the
verse is only middling... .F. 8.5.: “Murder Will
Out’’ is now out of this office... .A.L.C.: Marry
your characters early next time instead of boring
the reader with a dull courtship A.P.K.: You
tell a poor fish-yarn.—S.N.: Tram conductor’s
romance doesn’t grip... .H.J.J.: Not a chance....
E.C.: You shouldn’t write about Pacific islands until
you know something about them... .E.H.W.: Turned
the dog on “The Prodigal Son”... .V.L.: Too
sketchy... .R.M.E.: Subject overdone... .R.W.: Fair
story, but you let the surprise out too early....
M.V.S.: Feeble farce... .M. 1.: With some retouching
it might pass.... A.C.: Not bad studies of school
children, but no good to this paper... .A.P.: No
excuse nowadays for stuff badly written in pencil.
... .Hesperian: Ear for rhyme still good. But you’re
moralising overmuch. And words like “segregated”
are tough morsels to put through the poetry machine.
... .M. 8.: Even the rhymes are rocky... .Arthur G.:
Begins well and drops into platitude... .N.R.Y.:
Has dramatic force, but isn’t poetry. .. .R.W.8.:
Much too long for us F.A.S.: Don’t know what a
lot of it means... .J.B. (Q.): But even the correct
rhymes of this one can’t make it a winner... .Ye G.:
Give me God in his heaven,
Give me the stars above,
Give me a life without clamor,
-Give me the thing I love.
Well, thanks for the order... .0.G.N.: Sorry, but
the best we can do is to select those that cover
new ground, and even they have to be cut to the
bone.... Mandateite: What was absurd was that the
job the man had shouldn’t have been regarded as
equal to a b0nd....8. Rudge: This paper is not
interested in sweep promoters from Africa or their
politics... .A.C.8.: Glad to hear the x\ustralian nut
is selling well, but how do you know “the tree
bears for a century” ? And who are the “growers
who have got from £3OO per acre upwards” ?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.N.: All out of proportion... .C.G.E.: With
practice you should do better.. . .T-A.A.: You will
need to get far beyond the point you have reached.
E.T.: Scratchy J.S.: Nothing to laugh at
in the gags and no merit in the drawings J.Y.E.:
Stiff... .N. 5..: Couldn’t be much worse Z.Y.X.:
Another imitation of Norman! Natural, perhaps, in
a young ’un, but mere imitation will get you no-
where .M. 0.5.: Fail to see why drawings of
deformed females should have been sent 1200 miles
to U5....A.8.H.: Subjects not interesting enough.
... .R.E.0.M.: You’ve given the old man drain-pipes
for legs and built the youngster out of butter-boxes.
. ...F.S.: Wouldn’t care to be a passenger in that
car.... J. 8.: Ancient jest... .F. 8.: You don’t seri-
ously think we would give that space, do you?
Sax: They’re not Australian bluejackets... .E.M.A.:
Dreadful... .J.J.W.: Neither up to the mark....
Tzzy: We have a kindness for Souter, and you
shan’t steal his cat.


.
mm: fx >,««■
*
■
in
V'*,
■
m
mm
■
.....
■
H
Hi
..' ■i-’
B
<
f.
u
■
P
aff
:
Hi
ISIl
■
\m®r
WO,


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 2745.
September 21, 1932.
THE LYONS BIRD-SHOP.
“Dear, dear, I wonder what they’re making all this fuss about!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
VVestralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5195.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
archly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12c. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To ant address Overseas: 12 monthsj £1 10s.;
* months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. Neiv Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for 4oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL SONG.
Prizes of £25, £lO and five of £1 are
offered for words only.
Competition Closes at “Bulletin” Office,
Sydney, November 16.
TOO MUCH MEAT MAKES A
FAMINE.
Drop a man 500 miles at the back of
Bourke and he could starve though he had
a million. At the present moment a vague
claim is being made for a basic wage of
£5 10s. But £5 10s., or the paper which
calls itself £5 10s., has no intrinsic value.
It is only worth anything so far as it repre-
sents goods. If the goods are not in exist-
ence, the £5 10s. is worth nothing. Our
millionaire at the back of Bourke meets
another man in the same position as him-
self—without food or water. Money is no
good to either of them: it is valueless. A
third man comes up. He has a loaf of
mead. Instantly these pieces of paper
acquire an exchange value. It is the exist-
ence of the bread that does it. A work-
man is not paid paper lor his toil; what
he really gets is a promise of goods and ser-
vices; and, if the goods and services are
not there, obviously he can’t have them.
Ihe farmer knows this very well. He is
the man who lives nearest to nature; he
looks out on his land and knows that all
that he gets he must dig from there. Not
a single grain of wheat can he have beyond
that which he produces. If he wants more
he can get it only by working harder or
employing better methods.
But the Trades Hall has its answer to
that. In fact, it has two answers. One
group says, “It may be quite true that
industry could not pay a basic wage of
£o 10s. per week. But issue enough eur-
lency notes, and there would not be any
difficulty about it.” And neither would
theie be. But the worker would not be
any the better off. For again it has to be
said that whether you give a man one piece
oi paper or 50 is of no consequence; all
(bat means anything is their purchasing
power in- goods and services. If the pay-
ment of £5 10s. instead of £3 10s. will not
increase the quantity of goods, etc., then,
on the whole, the worker would be as well
off with £3 10s. There would certainly be
this difference: if, by reason of the issue of
more notes, what he formerly could get
lor £3 10s. now cost £5 10s., then every
worker who had a few pounds in a savings
bank would be robbed of some of its value;
lie would only be repaid as many pounds
as he deposited, yet the pound would now
buy less in goods than it would when he
worked for it and banked it. Inflation
always means robbing the thrifty for the
benefit of the thriftless. Which, after all,
doesn’t seem much of a reform. Still, it
appeals to a good many people because it
takes from those who have to give to those
who haven’t; and because the haven’ts and
haven t-muches are a majority, their cause
always appeals to the vote-pursuing noh-
tician.
But there is another and more militant
group which has no faith hi these tricks with
paper. “No,” it says, “labor creates all
therefore all the fruits of labor belong to
the worker. It is only because he does not
get all the fruits that he is not paid £5 10s
a week. You offer him £3 10s. Somebody is
robbing him of the difference.” Those in
charge of the great Russian experiment
were soon brought face to face with this
claim. The Communist writer Lassalle had
said that “the whole labor produce belongs
to the worker.” The Russian leaders were
driven to denounce this as “unrealisabJo and
manifestly erroneous,” which it is. The
farmer must put by seed-grain: he must
not consume that, Also he must put by
enough 1o buy himself new stock, new
harness, new implements: that grain he
must not eat either. It does not matter
whether you produce under individualism or
collectivism: those provisions for the future
have to be made. And they have to come
out ot what Lassalle' called “the whole
labor produce.” If they hadn’t to be
deducted, it might be possible to pay a
basic wage of £5 10s.—though the figure is
very doubtful.
the Trades Hall Communist is, however,
not finished. He complains that, anyhow,
t he £2 goes as profit or interest into private
hands, and not into reserves at all. In
Kussia, he says, if the workers are starved,
at least the amount saved by starving them
is put by for the purchase of equipment;
and that is the end of it—nobody levies
everlasting interest toll upon it. And that
is quite true too. But the question for
the worker is whether the “employing class”
does not return to the worker far more than
it, takes—whether, in short, the worker is
not infinitely better off under the British
system than under the Russian—for it might
just, as well be admitted that the Reds of the
I rades Hall are aiming at the elimination
ol the private employer and the capitalist.
But aii individualist and a collectivist State
alongside one another: which would be
likely to develop the motor and the tractor
as we know them to-day? The Soviet had
gone no distance with its Five-year Plan
before it realised that failure was inevit-
able unless it rewarded the higher intelli-
gence and skill and the extra industry. In
an address to the economists of the Soviet
in June, 1931, Stalin referred to the failure
of some industries and many works to reach
the budget figures. “What,” he asked, “is
the cause of the fluctuations in the labor
supply? I answer, wrong conceptions as to
wages—the uniformisation of wages as
favored by the Left. A number of factories
have fixed the wages tariffs in such a
manner that the difference between skilled
and unskilled labor and between light and
heavy work disappears. This uniformisation
must cease and this [level] wages system
must be destroyed.”
Capitalism, as it is called, almost killed
itself: that may be admitted. In the early
days of the machine age, when men, un-
trained in social responsibilities, made great
fortunes, there were too many who did not
realise that their wealth was a trust, to be
used for the public good. There are very
few who do not realise it to-day. It may
be true they have made much money;
but the more most of them have made the
harder they have worked, the more people
.they have employed, the more wages they
have paid; they'have put their money and
their experience and their brains into new
plant, new industries; they have carried
these through difficult times, when only
great losses have been shown; in thousands
of cases they have even pledged their credit
to do it.
Above all, then, two points have to be
seen clearly. First, we can get only what
we produce. Money is nothing if it does
not represent goods and services; if the
goods and services are not there, to increase
wages is merely a mockery. And, second,
no matter what State we live in, Communist
or Individualist, out of the produce must
be taken enough to provide for the future;
and it is only because, under individualism
and its promise of reward, so much
energy has been thrown into industry, that
the world has witnessed such vast changes
•during the past half-century. True, for the
moment the world is in the trough of a
depression. But it is such a depression as
no other age ever dreamed of—a depression
due not to famine but to glut ; a depression
due not to failure of our system of produc-
tion, but to its too great success.
CONTROL OF ANIMAL DISEASE.
Since the war European nations have been
almost frantically engaged in the endeavor
to make their countries self-supporting,
particularly so far as food supply is con-
cerned; and some that formerly were very
backward are advancing by leaps and
bounds. Bulgaria is an example. Though
but one-third the size of Victoria, it has a
total population of about five and a half
millions, of whom almost four-fifths are
agriculturists. Livestock is an important
item in their production. It consists of
over 600.000 horses and mules, nearly
2,000,000 cattle (half of them cows or work-
ing oxen), 450.000 buffaloes (one-third work-
ing animals), nearly 9,000,000 sheep,
1.000,000 pigs (as many as are in all Aus-
tralia) and over 10,000,000 poultry. Its
wheat production is approximately one-
third of Australia’s, with a 50 per cent,
greater yield per acre than Victoria’s.
Stock diseases in the past were common,
but since the war, particularly during the
past 10 years, notable effort has been made
to control and eradicate those of a con-
tagious nature. There exists an extensive
State veterinary service, each of the 14
provinces having a chief veterinary officer
with an adequate staff and a bacteriological
laboratory. Altogether 182 State veteri-
narians are employed, exclusive of those
attached to the army and those engaged in
teaching and clinical work. In addition,
there are some 280 field officers with some
veterinary training, corresponding in many
respects to our stock and dairy inspectors.
As a result of the efforts of this organisa-
tion glanders in horses has, already been
eradicated at a cost of over £50,000 for
compensation alone. Tuberculosis is con-
trolled by a special section, and the estab-
lished tuberculosis-free areas are rapidly
extending: all cows are tested annually
with tuberculin, and reactors removed. An-
thrax, formerly common, has virtually been
eliminated by vaccination. Foot-and-mouth
disease exists, but now to an unimportant
extent. Rinderpest and contagious pleuro-
pneumonia of cattle have been eradicated.
Pneumonia of goats has disappeared.
Swine fever and swine plague outbreaks
have been reduced almost to vanishing-
point. Treatment of sick animals is under-
taken by State officers appointed for the
purpose and independent of the inspectorial
staff. There are over 360 large and small
veterinary clinics, t he larger ones controlled
by specialists. The animals owned by the
poor are treated free, others pay according
to fixed rates. A widespread scheme of
livestock insurance has been adopted and
is being developed. The inspection of all
food materials of animal origin is entirely
under the control of the veterinary depart-
ment. No private slaughter-house can be
used.
Bulgaria is a section of Europe but re-
cently emancipated from an almost medi-
aeval state of culture. Yet how poorly Aus-
tralia’s efforts in this regard compare with
Bulgaria’s! True, we have veterinary ser-
vices more or less efficient in each State,
but there is little or no co-ordination. Each
of the six States has its own laws. There
are six Chief Veterinary Officers adminis-
tering these laws, and the Commonwealth
has another Chief whose main function is
the direction of quarantine regulations. In
N. S. Wales regulations have been in force
for a quarter of a century with the object
of eradicating the cattle tick. The average
annual cost has been well over £100,000;
yet after an expenditure of £2,000,000 the
parasite persists and is even extending its
operations. Queensland more or less philo-
sophically now accepts it, as permanent.
The other States, equally philosophically,
hold simply watching briefs, but in no way
assist in control of what is always a menace.
Pleuro-pneumonia of cattle has succumbed
in Victoria to heroic measures, but, pre-
vailing elsewhere, constant vigilance is re-
quired to prevent its re-entry. Swine fever
still exists here and there. Sheep ticks
and lice are common. Contagious abortion
and mastitis are common amongst dairy
herds, but official advice varies, as do the
regulations attempting their control, with
harassing but ineffectual results. Tuber-
culosis is retained in statu quo.
Is it not time a uniform system of inspec-
tion and control, with the object of improv-
ing the general animal health throughout
all Australia, should be adopted? For a
country whose people speak the same lan-
guage and are of the same race, and whose
territory is divided up by purely arbitrary
lines on the map, not by natural features
such as rivers and mountain ranges, the
present dissipation of control is as waste-
ful as it is ineffective. The main laws
should be passed by the central Parliament
on the advice of a competent advisory
body. Their administration might well be
left to a special Commission, on which each
phase of the livestock industry should have
its representatives, with power to levy rates
and make regulations. Australia’s need is
for greater efficiency in public as in private
effort. Cannot we take a leaf out of the
Bulgar’s book and adapt it to our own
necessities? Or have we not yet learned
that Australia still depends mainly on its
livestock industry?
COMMUNISM AND DEMOCRACY.
There is an uneasy feeling in many minds
that something is not quite right with the
suppression of Communist sheets, the veto
on the letting of halls for Communist
meetings and the deportation of Communist
propagandists. What is called the right
of free speech and a free press has been
fought for and won, and now it is sus-
pected that the very first time a group of
men attempt to put forward a policy which
is unpopular to those in high places, the
arm of the law is moved to snatch that
right away. How, they ask, can it be justi-
fied?
It could not be justified on the ground
that it is unpopular among the rich and
influential. That this section or that dis-
approves of Communism does not matter at
all. That only a small minority adhere to it is
not necessarily to its discredit—if it had only
one adherent he should not be silenced
for that reason. He might be right, and it
would be a suicidal thing to stop him from
persuading others that they were all wrong.
The Protectionist and the Freetrader and
the Landtaxer; the man who advocates
State lotteries and the tote and the man who
wants to suppress all forms of gambling;
the prohibitionist who would close all
hotels and the man who would keep them
open all round the clock; the man who
would sell the railways and (he man who
would nationalise hotels and pawnshops—
we let them all talk. And we ought to
let the Communist, too. but for one thing—
he is an advocate of violence. The’ pro-
hibitionist would interfere with the liberty
of the subject to get drunk; but he would
only do it by securing the approval of the
majority. The Communist is a revolu-
tionary; and he would not need to be a
revolutionary if he did not propose to seize
an; opportunity to impose the will of a
minority upon a majority. Lagardelle one
of the leaders of revolutionary syndicalism,
wrote that “the working class makes use
of political Democracy only the better to
destroy it.” Another, Merrheim, in his
“Mouvement Socialiste,” admitted that it
knew no “legal boundaries It breaks
through every barrier, legal or illegal, which
would stem its tide.” And a third, Sore!,
adds that “violence gives back to the pro-
letariat their natural weapon.”
That is the complete justification for
repressing Communist propaganda. It is
the avowed enemy of Democracy. It is:
prepared to make use of it—as it is being
made use of in Australia—“only the better
to destroy it.” The man who takes a
stranger into his home, after the stranger
has given warning that he will enter it only
for the purpose of destroying it, deserves
all that is coming to him.
THE GAMBLING SPIRIT.
An engaging character known as “Possum”
Ward, hero of perhaps the funniest of pugi-
listic stories (after a field fight in Queensland
he telegraphed to his father, “Won easy;
seventy-five rounds”), once went to the
editor of an Australian weekly and sug-
gested writing, with assistance, a series of
articles warning the youth of the nation
against gambling. “Don’t laugh,” he said;
“I mean it. I’ve bin a gambler all me life,
a professional most of the time; and it’s
never done me a bit of good. An’ now
I’m getting up in years, with nothin’ to
look forward to, I don’t like to think o’ the
boys growin’ up mug punters. They can’t
win.” The editor was willing, but “Possum”
did not go on with the contract. Like so
many other gamblers he had generous
impulses but was infirm of purpose. Yet
what he said about punters is true, and
will not be denied by confirmed members
of the tribe who are capable of reflecting on
their experiences. If they are frank with
themselves they will admit that they are
the poorer for their obsession in every
way—that they have not only wasted an
unconscionable amount of time and money,
but have known desperate hours and dan-
gerous moods in a pursuit which has yielded
them nothing but unhealthy excitement.
“They can’t win.”
Yet gambling is universal in Australia,
and there is a closer connection between
it and politics than there is in any other
country. And the interest devoted to it
grows more and more powerful. We see it
dictating to politicians, throwing its support
to one side or the other, even financing
election campaigns in return for corrupt
concessions. In N. S. Wales a “Nationalist”
Government withdrew prosecutions launched
against influential bookmakers caught
breaking the law against shop-betting
because convictions would have cost them
their A.J.C. and V.R.C. licenses. It has
been published again and again that the
dishonest variety of McShortodds has made
a mock of the Winning Bets Tax Act by
collecting the 10 p.c. from cash bettors and
sticking to the money, and by not collecting
it at all from punters who bet on the nod,
falsifying his books accordingly; but no
action has been taken. The horse- and
pony-racing elements helped to turn Lang
out because he favored the tin-hare gang.
Stevens is now threatened because he pro-
poses to prohibit betting at tin-hare courses
and is known to be hostile to the State lot-
teries. Many of those who posed as his
friends in June now say that his own party
would not follow him if he tried to stop
the lotteries, and that if he persisted he
would fall.
The gambling spirit is extolled as being
admirable in itself. It is, of course, a
mere perversion of a fine and noble and
necessary thing—thrice necessary in a coun-
try like Australia—the spirit of adventure.
Nor are betting, buying lottery tickets,
speculating on the share-market and the like
the only forms it takes. Under its influence
pastoralists overstock, farmers crop twice
as many acres as they can work properly,
fools swallow the dope of the demagogue
who promises to save them from the con-
sequences of their folly (always by plunder-
ing the thrifty) and workmen arc led into
crazy, semi-revolutionary strikes. The
general strike proposed by the bosses of
the Miners’ Federation has been described
as “ a desperate gambler’s throw”; and so
it would have been had it come off. Kay,
the Domain orator, delivered a shrewd
thrust at the Reds before he decided to
follow Lang’s star. “They are never so
keen on their revolution,” lie said, “as
after a bad day at the races.”
Our Governments cannot suppress gambl-
ing, and would do more harm than good if
they tried. But they can and should restrict
betting to the racecourse, and support the
conversion of proprietary into non-pro-
prietary clubs, like Williamstown and
Moonee Valley. Most decidedly they
should stifle the birth of new proprietary
concerns bred in corruption and hopeful
of waxing fat on human folly. And at the
next Premiers’ Conference they should go
into the question of abolishing the whole
litter of lotteries now competing with one
another and substituting a non-competitive
premium-bond issue, in which the sub-
scriber’s capital (say £5) is returned to
him in due course and portion of the
interest accumulates and is distributed
periodically by lot. Premium bonds would
satisfy the desire for a mild flutter
without discouraging the essential virtue of
thrift. It is the adventurous and the thrifty
who build up nations; gamblers can
neither make them nor preserve them.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The N.S.W. Legislative Council.
With the help of the Courts N. S. Wales
has got itself into a rare tangle over its
Leg. Council. This body is embedded in
the Constitution; and Parliament has passed
a law that the Constitution may not be
altered without the approval of the people
through a referendum. Lang sought to
repeal that measure with the declared inten-
tion of sweeping the Council away. The
matter went to the Courts; and, rightly or
wrongly, the Courts —the Privy Council in
the last resort —decided that the Parliament
which had put the referendum in the law of
the land was not competent to take it out.
So the State has a nominee Chamber
which, through being flooded again and
again, now - numbers nearly 50 p.c. more
than the Leg. Assembly, and by further
flooding may be brought up to a thou-
sand or any other number. Yet Parlia-
ment can neither sweep it away nor reform
it. Nominally the reform —or abolition —
of the Chamber is in the hands of the
people; but, since no measure may be put
to the .people without the approval of both
Houses of Parliament, in fact the measure
of reform must be approved by three
bodies, one of them being the very body
which is to be reformed more or less out of
existence. If the slate could be wiped clean,
perhaps half the difficulties would disappear.
As matters stand, the problem is to devise
a plan acceptable first to a House of
125 members, no less than 64 of them
appointed by Lang Governments whose
policy was to destroy the Council alto-
gether, and then to the people.
In searching for a compromise the Gov-
ernment has adopted, with modifications,
the recommendations of the Bryce Confer-
ence, which, in 1916, considered . various
proposals for reforming the House of Lords.
But the modifications are so important that
very little is left except the principle of
election by Parliament instead . of the
people. And the manner of that election
has been so altered that most of what
virtue there was in the Conference scheme
is lost.
What the Government proposes is a
Council of 60 members, 15 of them elected
by members of both Houses every three
years. (At the first election, of course, one-
fourth would be chosen for three, six, nine
and twelve years respectively.) Now, that is
a radical departure from the Bryce Con-
ference recommendations. Its House was to
be of 324 members, one-fourth to be
chosen, at first from the existing House
of Lords, by a Committee of Selection,
the other three-fourths by the members of
the House of Commons voting in 13 terri-
torial groups and using proportional repre-
sentation. The division into territorial
groups was regarded as of great importance.
And it is of greater importance to divide
a vast State up into areas. If this is not
done the country will have very small
chance of adequate representation. What
hope of election would half the Govern-
ment’s newest batch of Councillors have if
the matter had been left to a vote of the
two Houses? How many members know
Moses, of Griffith, or Wragge, of Gunne-
dah? Yet in their own districts they are
outstanding men, with a most valuable
knowledge of country needs.
But, though the division of the members
of the Assembly into, say, five territorial
groups for the purposes of these triennial
elections would be an improvement, nothing
can make election by the Chambers com-
pletely satisfactory. The purpose of a
Second Chamber is to check the work of
the First Chamber—if necessary, to block
its measures until they can be more defi-
nitely put before the people. Members
of the. Second Chamber are the auditors;
and directors don’t appoint auditors. No
body, whose job it is to tell the Assembly
that.it is wrong, and to stop it from carry-
ing its intentions into effect, ought to be
dependent on the Assembly for election or
re-election.
» —
Let’s Do Something.
On September 7 The Bulletin suggested
a plan whereby it might be possible for
the unemployed to be re-employed, the idea
being that they would provide a market
for their own production. The scheme, in
brief, is that Production Certificates should
be issued by some central authority to
employers who would take on extra hands,
the employees to be paid in these Cer-
tificates, which would become tender for
the purchase of goods thus produced, at
shops handling the goods of these producers.
Also Production Certificates would be issued
to cover rent and retailer’s profits and for the
purchase of raw material. In all, Production
Certificates precisely equal to the retail
value of the goods produced would be issued;
so that new purchasing power would be
capable of lifting the new production and
no more. And as - the Certificates would
have to be used within a stated time,
there could be no hoarding.
A well-known Sydney public accountant,
having examined the scheme, writes:
I tentatively suggest the possibility of the
trading banks supervising the scheme. The per-
mission and possibly the guarantee of the Federal
authority would be necessary, but the banl? if
agieeable, could handle such a matter more econo-
mically than any other body.
wouVhSfio h° the ,. tv l° thin & s which you state
Particularly observed, I add these:
into anythine- 116 11)Ust , ! 10t h® allowed to degenerate
0 ai ’ >thm ° resembling that proposed financial
abortion, “the goods standard”; (2) control must
be cheap and sensible; (3) it must not be used
as an excuse to establish another Government depart-
ment.
The integrity of the banks is every bit as high
as that of any other section of our community.
Their organisation is complete. They know their
clients personally, and are aware of. their affairs,
their respective capacities and characters. They
are also in close touch with each trade’s conditions
and statistics.
The cost of the scheme would eventually be
borne by the public irrespective of who controls it;
but in my opinion it would not be wise to go
past institutions which in numerous cases are
already transacting business, with the same manu-
facturers, traders and the like. Having advanced
the “limit” in the usual way—that is to say, in
accordance with present standards as applied to
their respective funds and national currency —the
banks could then issue such Production Certificates,
where shown desirable, on the basis you outline,
against wealth produced by extra operatives em-
ployed. Proof that the operatives were additional
and the produced wealth extra could be by auditors’
certificates or statutory declarations. This is but
a matter of detail.
To some extent such a plan would separate our
local and internal economy from our external con-
tacts. There are difficulties. There always are.
There always were; but, with apologies for the
paradox, the plan might be a success even if it were
a failure. The objective is to induce quick exchange
of goods and services, and to do it now. - People
on the dole understand the urgency.
A fairly large number of us have had experience
of many mediums and exchange forms, including
private banknotes, bills, scalp vouchers, dole coupons,
construction-pay orders and our currency notes which
lie so easily about redemption in gold. The proposed
certificates would be no worse than most of these.
They would have a limited life, and the scheme
could be stayed within reasonable time if necessary.
Traders would have to be as faithful with their
certificates as they are with their overdrafts.
The banks would have to be remunerated, and
possibly this could be done by a revision of unem-
ployment taxation.
Several competent authorities claim we have
handled our share of the depression in a manner
which compares very favorably with steps taken in
Britain and U.S.A. We should try something more
whilst waiting for a possible permanent rise in
price-levels, for all the conferences and pious reso-
lutions of world-statesmen and economists can be
made futile by one action of a lunatic in Central
Europe or Manchuria. The Lord helps those that
help themselves.
Others write suggesting that the plan means
inflation. But it doesn’t: inflation involves
the issue of currency in excess of saleable
production. One correspondent asks, what
would happen in the event of a fall in the
market value of goods. The Certificates
would be valid for only a very limited time,
so that any serious fall would be unlikely.
And the unemployed would probably prefer
to be able to get a suit at 60s. in Certifi-
cates rather than not be able to get the
same suit at 575. 6d. in ordinary currency.
+
The Urgent Need for Action.
That the industrial situation calls urgently
for action scores of letters which reach this
paper testify. One, typical of many,
follows: —
The unemployed, utterly without organ-
isation, and with no earthly hope of getting
any funds, without which peaceful organ-
isation is impossible, have really no one to
fight their battle outside the press. The
Labor leaders are so engrossed in battling
for impossible conditions for the employed
unionist that the best they can do for us
is talk —talk for the most part of such a
wild nature that it does our cause more harm
than good. The district member, once
elected, irrespective of whether he is sym-
pathetic or not, cannot even talk on the
unemployed’s behalf except in conjunction
with his party aims and as quite a secondary
consideration.
The general public has .been given a quite
erroneous idea as to what we have to live
on. A fair average family consists of a
man, his wife and three children. In N. S.
Wales this family would be on D schedule
food allowance, and would get weekly dole
tickets for the following: 2s. Bd. worth of
meat, seven pints of milk, nine loaves of
bread (under a loaf and a half a day) and
12s. worth of groceries—the total allowance
worth a shade under a pound a week. Sub-
stitutes for the printed grocery list are
allowed, and out of the allowance he has
to get vegetables and make some provision
for lighting—either candles or kerosene.
Cooking is done in some makeshift way, but
there isn’t much t 0 cook. Endowment is
a right by law, and the family under review
get 10s. weekly from this source; but. the
dole allowance is not a right by law—it is
purely an act of grace. Should this man
make a strenuous effort to improve and
succeed to the extent of earning another
10s. weekly, and should he disclose this to
the dole authorities, he will immediately
have half his food allowance stopped. The
Government cannot touch his right by law
—it can and will touch his food allowance.
The man on this schedule —or, in fact, the
man with a bigger family—can get addi-
tional help from the Child Welfare Depart-
ment, which certainly has the power to
grant it; but for a man in receipt of endow-
ment to get it is a rarity.
The allowance is one loaf and a half of
bread a day for five people, and bread is the
main article of food, as a glance at the
meat allowance will make clear. At lunch-
time the mother, with an eye to the fact
that what is left of the loaf has to serve
for tea, whisks it away, followed by the
wistful eyes of the children. They may
have had enough to keep them alive—they
most cei’tainly have not had a normal supply.
I write only of what I know from painful
personal experience. It was hard, no doubt,
on the basic wage-earners to suffer the drop,
but they have enough to live on. Take away
anything from the already meagre unem-
ployed allowance, and it means hungry
children. There are over 100.000 drawers
of the dole in N. S. Wales, representing pro-
bably nearly half a million mouths. They
are ouiet, unnaturally quiet, but with many
the breaking point is perilously near.
With hundreds of thousands idle, this
giving a man here and a man there a tem-
porary job, though all right in its way, is
not enough. To look to Governments to
provide jobs is hopeless. Governments may
help in organising a plan for re-employing
the hundreds of thousands, but beyond
that they are powerless. What The Bul-
letin insists is that these people could be
profitably employed providing for one an-
other’s needs. If they were cast on an
island of the Pacific that is what they
would proceed to do promptly. Steps
should be taken to give them the chance
to do it in Australia.
4
Back to the Dark Days.
The unaccountable craving of a certain
variety of Australian politician after big
imports and the big debts that he incurs to
pay for them shows every sign of breaking
out again after a brief suspension. The
record of this local madness during the past
few years has been very much as follows: —
Exports
Imports and Interest to Meet These
on Foreign Debt. Two Liabilities.
1923- .. £169,118,000 £119,487,000
1924- .. 186,643,000 162,030,000
1925- .. 183,638,000 148,772,000
1926- .. 194,717,000 145,140,000
1927- .. 182,944,000 143,213,000
1928- .. 179,648,000 144,850,000
1929- . . 169,546,000 125,127,000
To explain the insanity which reached its
culmination in 1926-27 is about as hard as
to define the Hun war madness of 1914.
For a period which was almost parallel
with that of the Bruce-Page Ministry, im-
ports were enormous, rising from 103 mil-
lions’ worth in 1922 to 165 millions’ worth
in 1926-27. It was agreed that all this
inrush of goods was a sign of prosperity and
a proof of the resources of the country, and
the Old Brigade added that it was a proof
of the soundness of Freetrade. Eveiy year
enough money was borrowed to make up
the difference between the value of ex-
ports and the value of imports plus the
year’s bill for interest on the oversea debt,
till in 1926-27 the Old Man in London was
asked for £50,000,000 and began to hint that
he couldn’t find the money, and that he
didn’t know what Australia wanted with all
these imports unless it proposed to throw
a lot of them over the new bridge into
the harbor. It was a natural question when
imports had expanded by £62,000,000 worth
in five years.
Between October 22, 1929, and December
19, 1931, a new Government faced the un-
paralleled situation. It reduced imports
forcibly, and raised compulsory loans from
the banks, that being the only way they
could be raised in time to avert a heroic
smash as the natural result of the Bruce-
Page policy. A strong effort is being made
to push and pull Australia back towards
the methods of 1926-27. This involves the
question whether the Old Man in London
will let Australia go back. He may like
the idea of selling Australia more goods,
but the idea of Australia going back to the
edge of insolvency, as in 1926-27, may not
strike him at all. In fact, it may give
a fatal knock to the schemes for convert-
ing our loans into securities bearing lower
interest.
4
Preferences and Petrol.
Professor Copland, addressing a meeting
of his old students in Melbourne, said that
he had small hopes of the Ottawa Confer-
ence :
One-sixth of the Commonwealth’s export trade
would benefit from the preferential duties of 10 p.c.,
and the advantage to Australia would be approxi-
mately £1,500,000 per annum. The amount would
be provided by the British consumer in the form of
higher prices. Higher prices would tend to cause an
increase in wages, with higher costs in British export
industries, leading to higher costs in Australian
export industries. In that way another vicious
circle would be created.
Professor Copland, of course, sees one
vicious circle already in Australia. He sees
a high premium on exchange, paid for the
benefit of exporters by importers and those
with overseas debts; he sees importers’
prices and taxes increased to pay this
charge; he sees higher prices and heavy taxes
tending to cause an increase in wages, with
higher costs in the export industries, thus
wiping out the advantage of the premium
or bonus. In short, he sees a community
shivering in the cold blasts of adversity
foolishly trying to keep itself warm by cut-
ting a foot off its pants to make its coat
longer.
Senator Hardy last week told them at
Canberra that the export industries “are
in the last throes of a death struggle”
and that the only thing to save them was
“to manage exchange and lift the prices of
Australian produce measured in Australian
money.” In other words, he proposes that
importers and the Governments and other
people owing money overseas should pay a
much higher premium on exchange, sio
that the exporters may get a larger bonus:
nobody else will pay a farthing of it. That,
of course, means heavier taxes and higher
prices, and, as Professor Copland has now
pointed out, these things mean higher wages
and higher costs, which the export industries
will have to pay; and there, in the wise
words of the professor, you have “another
vicious circle.”
Last week it was cabled that the price
of petrol had been put up 3d. per gallon
in England; and the agents in Australia
would say nothing regarding the prospects
of an advance here. But what can
Senator Hardy expect? The £ English is
now worth only 14s. 6d. in the U.S.A.; the
£ Australian is worth only 11s. 6d. in
America. If the exchange rate were lifted
to 145, as some suggest, the £ Australian
would be worth exactly 10s. in America.
How could we expect America or any other
foreign country to sell us for a £ that was
worth 10s. as much oil as it sold us for a
£ that was worth 205.? Depreciate our £
any further and it would not be any three-
penny advance for petrol that would hit us.
We should have to dredge up probably
another ninepence.
♦
Giving Australia a Hand.
Dear Bulletin, —In view of the great
national importance of the organisation
which has been formed under the name
of the Citizens of Sydney Organising Com-
mittee, I ask space to explain briefly its
objects. The purpose, definitely, is to pro-
mote the business interests of Australia by
undertakings having for their object organ-
ised demonstrations of the country’s re-
sources and attractions, and drawing atten-
tion to them throughout Australia and
abroad.
The great success of the Bridge Celebra-
tions stimulated the belief that the time
had arrived for a permanent institution for
the expert handling of community enter-
prises. Hence the necessity of the Bridge
Celebrations Committee in its present form
Several campaigns are already in view, in-
cluding an inaugural Sydney Carnival Week
for April next.
Even thus early the organisation is in
shape. Our own publicity resources are
being combined with those of the National
Travel Association. The result cannot fail
to prove substantially beneficial to trade
and industry.
During the year other ventures will be
carried out, including various “Weeks”
which, up to now, have had to rely on
emergency organisation and publicity.
The committee will represent a saving to
business firms and others; multiplied
applications for monetary help will be
eliminated by the all-embracing scope of
this organisation.—Yours, S. Hordern,
Chairman.
♦
Gandhi.
The usurer-caste Hindu, Gandhi, has
announced from his seclusion in Poona Gaol
that unless the British Government relin-
quishes its intention of giving India’s
70,000,000 “untouchables”—the folk who
have no caste at all—a separate vote, he
will signify his disapproval by starving him-
self to death. He has given no explana-
tion of his extraordinary attitude, but it
may briefly be described as that of an
Australian union boss who finds that legis-
lation may give the individual members of
his union as much control of it as he has
himself. In his later years Gandhi has been
the tool of two great Indian interests.
The wealthy native cloth manufacturers of
Bombay egged him on to a boycott of
British goods, and subsidised the Nationalist
party heavily. Gandhi’s idea was to replace
the British goods with the product of the
native spinning-wheel. What did happen was
that the great Bombay millowners reaped
an enormous profit. The other force that
pushed Gandhi along—with a pair of tongs,
to be sure—were the high-class Brahmins, the
hereditary priest-aristocrats who have ruled
Hindu India from time immemorial. The
coming of the British broke their authority.
It would seem that to both of these inter-
ests the old Bunnia’s usefulness has passed.
If, then, he carries his intention to its con-
clusion, few outside his own fanatical little
following will weep for him; certainly the
teeming millions of Indians who have never
even heard of the man will carry on with
the day’s job as usual.
—, ♦
Self-help Is Not Appreciated.
A message from “Gad”:—
Some weeks ago I came here (New Eng-
land, N.S.W.) to make my last stand
against the depression, and have since been
camped on a patch of Crown land under
permissive occupancy. In anticipation of.
Government sanction, I have started to
fall the timber with a borrowed axe, and
have got some distance with a 10 x 10
shack —with waste timber from an adjoin-
ing mill.
But self-help is a policy which, I fancy,
is not approved of officially. For instance,
I am 21 miles from the nearest dole centre,
and a Government rule says (so the local
John has it) that no ration ticket must
be issued without being immediately signed
for by the recipient. Consequently I would
have to travel 42 miles every week, per
boot, to get my 7s. 94rd. worth of rations.
However, the local John eases matters by
posting one—to be signed for next time.
Even this involves ai fortnightly 42-mile pil-
grimage to the police station, which is a
waste of time, effort and boot leather.
I got put on to relief work for a fort-
night. We finished off a beautiful deviation
—so that traffic can pass more smoothly
over about a quarter of a mile of road.
Most of the relief workers were sons of more
or less well-fixed dairy-farmers. In the first
lot of relief work that visited these parts
my neighbor, who is on the dole and is
trying to work his way off it, was not
included, though he is married, has three
children and had applied. Preference was
given to the local dairy-farmers!
The relief job is useful to these estimable
people, but is not much use to me, as I
shall have to support myself, without rations,
for a few weeks after it is over; which
means that money which otherwise could
be spent on seeds, fruit trees, fencing, etc.,
will be dissipated, and I shall be no for-
’arder.
The other day I wrote to the Department
of Agriculture and asked if it could help
with seeds, fruit trees, etc. It replied there
was no money. No wonder. All the money
is needed to build deviations that are lead-
ing us enticingly along the highway to
nowhere.


In Craven “A” I always find what I expect
... that extra touch of Quality
CRAVEN “A”
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE R\ CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years’ Reputation for Quality
A % ■
MMHMI r:ls*u»p
mm-
Si
m
POLITCAL
POINTS
There wasn’t such a universal bleat of
despair among the woolmen at the week-
end. Sales had been held at Sydney, Bris-
bane and Adelaide, with prices 25 to 30 p.c.
higher than in June. The average for the
Sydney two weeks was 8.73 d com-
pared with the colossal 25.2 d. of 1924-25,
but, except for a single year, as good as
any Australian average from 1885 to 1904.
On top of that came general rains, assuring
another good wheat: harvest; so there will
be a heavy export season. And, whereas the
average price of lead in June was £9 15s.
and in July £9 19s. Sid., the week-end quota-
tion was £l2 11s. 3d. spot and £l2 17s. 6d.
forward. The present exchange rate may
be maintained till the end of March, but it
will be a heavy, load for the Bank to carry.
One of the miners’ leaders, talking of the
general strike, gave the show away. It
mightn’t come to anything, he said, but it
"Phew! I don't think that cock will fight
any more.”
was good to put fire wind up flic employing
class. The man was a fool. Just now, when
the thing the community is most in need of
is confidence, “putting the wind up the em-
ploying class” merely keeps works idle, capi-
tal unused and men on the dole.
N.S.W. unionists have to find a lot of
money to send their bosses for trips. Fifty-
odd bosses have gone to Melbourne for an
A.C.T.U. conference. As a preliminary,
Garden and one of the Martins descended
on Adelaide “to reunite the ‘Lang
party’ to the A.L.P.” Their main difficulty
lay in identifying the “Lang party.” Two
concerns claimed the distinction, if any, each
having expelled the other and then sepa-
rated into two or more factions. However,
the leaders were rounded up and conducted
to the Trades Hall, there to be readmitted
with “continuity of membership” ; and it is
now confidently expected that they will be
licked together at the general election in-
stead of being licked separately.
Senator Charles Hardy has introduced him-
self to the Federal Upper House, with dis-
appointing results. The Hardy who was
elected by the people had a clear-cut policy
for the subdivision of the Ma State into
smaller self-governing areas. The Hardy
who unfolded himself the other day had a
tale to relate similar to the maunderings of
Earle Page about the advisability of a
higher rate of exchange, and of a lower
tariff, and of more imports, and of a more
violent leaning towards what some persons
here describe as Freetrade, though it is
really foreign borrowing. The outstanding
performance in this line was when Earle
Page was financial king. Imports increased
by 150 per cent, in five years, and exports
were so far short that it was necessary to
borrow £50,000,000 in a single year to pay
for imports and loan interest. Hardy is
young yet, and there is still hope for him;
but not while he sits at the feet of Earle
Page.
Senator Hardy repeated the silly story
that Robert Gibson, of the Commonwealth
Bank, invited the Government to raise the
exchange rate. What the board has said a
dozen times is that it 'will be no party to
increasing the rate for the purpose of put-
ting money into the pockets of one section
of the community—that, while this may be
politics, it isn’t banking, and if it is done
somebody else will have to do it.
The dentist who advertises has enlisted the
sympathy of Queensland Labor. Last year
the Moore Government imposed restrictions
on his advertising, which is apt to be —er —
flamboyant. By an Order-in-Council the
Forgan Smiths have swept this amendment
to the Dental Act away. The object, Home
Secretary Tlanlon says, is to secure to the
working man the benefit of low charges.
Hanlon thinks high advertising and low
charges go together.
Maine was the first. American State to
go dry. It had anti-booze laws, off and on,
from 185.1 till 1884, and in the latter year
an amendment to the .Constitution declared
the manufacture and sale of liquors'“forever
prohibited.” Now -Maine, by electing a
Democratic Governor and two Democratic
members of Congress, has become the first
State to plump for Prohibition repeal. The
Democratic triumph presages the defeat of
President Hoover in November, for Maine
is traditionally Republican.
The old quarrel between the Vic. Lands
and Forests departments has not been
settled by the appointment of Dunstan to
control both. “Forests”, regards “Lands”
as a grabbing, tree-hating concern • “Lands”
looks on “Forests” as a stupid obstruc-
tor of settlement. Argyle’s feeling is that
the feud is a nuisance, but, being obliged to
do something, he foreshadows legislation to
enable the Cabinet to exchange land as it
thinks fit, so that, as he says, will not.
be subject to any commission or body it has
(•rented. But Parliament is greater than
Cabinet, and a forest .conscience is develop-
ing in Victoria.
. They have weird ideas about; wages and
what pays, them at Broken Hill. The local
mostly-Labor City Council met after the
N.S.W. basic wage had been reduced to £3
10s. and decided not to interfere with its
own present basic wage—£4 16s. “While
wages arc kept up the. city will improve,”
said the mover. And so it would —if there
was anything to pay the wages after they
have been kept up. At present only three
mines are working, and not one of them is
paying its way. The man who demands high
wages, whether they are earned or not, is
like the young lady who insists on having
a handsome millionaire for a husband. After
waiting 30 years for him, she generally takes
the old age pension instead.
According to official reckoning in Austra-
lian pounds, the national income fell from
£650,000,000 in 1927-28 to £450,000,000 in
1981-32. Yet old-age and invalid pensions,
exclusive of administrative expenses (about
£120,000 a year), cost, at £11,126,000,
£1,836,000 more than in 1927-28 and nearly
£5.000,000 more than in 1923-24 (£6,523,000).
“The country simply cannot afford this in-
creasing charge,” said Lyons in his Budget
speech. True, and he should have defied
all the softhearted parsons, fainthearted
supporters, soreheaded editors and bone-
lieaded demagogues to show by what magic
the country can maintain an expanding ex-
penditure with straitened means. He gave
LITTLE ALOYIUS: “Can’t you see I’m
coming down?”
in, however; and tlie pension is to remain
at 17s. Gd. a week in the case of persons
without means. In other cases the amount
paid in future is to he a charge on’ the
pensioner’s estate at death; and selfish
children able to support their parents will,
it is threatened, be compelled to do so
instead of putting them on the * State.
Judging by the letters that have poured
in on. The Bulletin, half the bagmen of
N. S. Wales are fiercely discussing - a Minis-
terial announcement that “there has been
no cut in the scale of food relief.” To the
response that “we used to* get 7s. 9Jd„ now
we get only 7s. 3d. a week,” Chaffey, the
brasshat iu charge, replies that the ratiou
scales haven’t been Varied; ‘‘the apparent
discrepancy is due to the fact that the
goods are now to be obtained at cheaper
rates than they could be formerly.” Which
is true in theory, but doesn’t seem always
true in practice; and a meal in theory is
most unsatisfying.
“Gandhi announces that If the Government, does
not abandon its decision to give separate represen-
tation to ‘the untouchables,’ he will ‘fast unto
death.’ ”
"See what Gandhi’s going to do, don’t you?
Well, take this solemn warning, Stevens
—if you don’t drop that Upper House
Reform Bill I’ll cut out fish lunches!”
Generally speaking, Victoria has not been
as hard on taxpayers, especially salary-
earners, as other States; nevertheless the
combined State and Commonwealth taxes
on property income are very severe. From
a. Victorian receiving £lOOO from property.
£7B ISs. has been taken for State tax, £25
ss. for unemployed-relief, £62 10s. for the
ordinary Commonwealth tax (more if the
five-year averaging system is against him),
and £lOO for super-tax, which is levied solely
on property income; £261 13s. altogether.
From £2OOO of property income the tax-
gatherers have been grabbing £686 17s. Bd.
(£175 2s. Bd.. and £SO 10s. State, £231 ss.
and £2OO Commonwealth) ; from £5OOO,
£2518 4s. 2d. (£505 ss. and £206 ss. State,
£1216 14s. 2d. and £5OO Commonwealth).
People with £2OO a year or less have been
exempt from State income tax, and only
about one-tenth of the electors have paid it.
Now the exemption is to be reduced to £lOO.
and it is expected that the number of tax-
payers will increase from 110,000 (the
110,000 are to pay “slightly more thah last
year”) to 400,000. And a great roar of
indignation has gone up from the Murray
to the sea.
Spooner’s Farm Relief Bill lias, been
improved in several respects. If a distressed
farmer does not care for it, he need not
come under its provisions, but once he
declares he will make his own arrangements
he cannot afterwards ask for a stay-order.
And farmers are to be given the option of
choosing a receiver from non-residents of their
district. The Assistant-Treasurer aims at
using the Relief Board to abolish that hope-
lessly unwieldy institution the Rural Indus-
tries Branch, with a consequent saving in this
way and others. It is hoped to resuscitate the
Rural Bank and work it in conjunction with
the Spooner scheme (which is modelled on
the Westralian farm-relief measure), the
bank acting as a receiver when required.
Seullin thinks it a frightful; thing that
applicants for the old-age pension should be
asked to prove that they really need it, and
have not transferred property to their chil-
dren so that they may be kept, in the main,
by other people’s children. He did not think
it a frightful thing to demand all information
about their affairs from old people who plead
guilty to having made provision for their
declining years and have saved something
from the wreck. These old people he smote
with a special tax of 2s. in the £. The result
is that they are paying £4 4s. sd. Federal
tax on £225 (State and unemployed-relief
faxes are additional), £8 13s. sd. on £250, £l7
16s. 3d. on £3OO, £27 Bs. sd. on £350, and
£37 10s. on £4OO. On “earned” incomes the
Federal tax in Scullin’s time was nothing
up to £250, 10s. on £275, £1 Is. Bd. on £3OO,
£2 9s. 3d. on £350 and £4 2s. 7d. on £4OO.
Seullin actually exacted more from an aged
widow with £5OO of property income (£59 Is.
3d.) than from a person drawing a salary of
£l2OO from a tin-hare joint (£52 10s.). If
he must shed tears about the wrongs? of old
people he ought to shed them in private.
Pretty well every legislative boomerang
Lang hurled at his opponents sailed back
and struck his friends. He said there was
no need to prepare City of Sydney municipal
rolls, as he was introducing a Greater Sydney
Council; moreover, he arbitrarily mitered the
date of the County of Cumberland elections
when all arrangements had been made (he
feared the effect of defeat in the municipali-
ties on the Lang-plan candidates for the
Senate and the House of Reps., whereas the
rout of the Federal Lang-planners told
heavily against the Lang-plan municipal
ticket),:, These proceedings of the boss-
bungler have given Stevens, whom he hates
so furiously, an excellent excuse, if any were
required, for postponing the City of Sydney
elections, due in ordinary circumstances on
Dec. 1; so Jock Garden won’t be, Lud
Mayor, for another 15 months, at least.
Meantime the quorum is to be reduced from
seven to five, which means that the Garden
group will no longer be able to indulge its
fancy for holding up business.
Scullin protests that he is “not an infla-
tionist” but is “strongly opposed to the
policy of deflation.” It recalls the facing-
both-ways politician who was described as
“a Free-tectionist with Pro-trade leanings.”
Obviously the breed is not extinct.
Referring to the good times the N.S.W.
trams used to have, *‘S. M. Herald” remarks
that there were only three years in the
long period previous to 1925 when the sys-
tem failed to pay working expenses ami
interest. But the surplus was misappro-
priated, and all the sums needed for new con-
struction were borrowed. In the early days
(trams date back to 1879) the Sydney Gov-
ernment sold public lands wholesale and
spent the proceeds along with the tramway
profits. About 1924 the annual bill for
interest on money borrowed to build tram-
ways climbed up to £532,189 and there
ceased to be any such thing as tramway
profits. The spending of profits and the
substitution of debts had the natural result.
Taylor, the new member for Enoggera, is
already a, puzzle to the Queensland Parlia-
ment. One day he staggers his party by-
attacking some triumph of “Labor legisla-
tion” ; the next he is at the other extreme.
Fresh from a study of tin*, open spaces of liis
suburban electorate, he came out the other
day with the assertion that “the people
behind the wool industry” were “an un-
scrupulous lot.” Questioned, he mentioned
the names of several companies; but that
didn’t take the worried look off the counten-
ances of certain of liis colleagues. They
do a little in the wool line themselves.
Old Carlyle wrote in his “French Revolu-
tion” :
A widow is gathering- nettles for her children’s
dinner. A perfumed seigneur hath an alchemy
whereby he - extracts the third nettle and calls it
rent.
There arc no perfumed seigneurs in these
parts, but the jack-in-office is an effective
substitute. At Albury the other day a
woman baker, a widow with six children
who said she “found it hard to make a liv-
ing,” was prosecuted by the Department of
Labor and Industry for having baked bread
for sale on a Saturday. It was her second
offence, and the industrial law lias no mercy
on such offenders. So, although the magis-
trate .spoke in bitter scorn of it, he had to
fine her £lO and costs. It will cost the
country many times £lO if she decides to
give up the struggle and go on the dole; but
the industrial law is mighty, if cockeyed,
and will prevail.
AUSSIE AGITATOR: “Starving for your fol-
lowers? Absurd! You should adopt
my system and make your followers
starve for you.”
“Wodgil” ; Perl laps the Albury widow who
was fined £lO for working on Saturday
should consider herself lucky. In the Vic,
Labor Government’s time a Melbourne
widow, in the simplicity of her heart, gave
an unemployed man a job about the house.
His work being unsatisfactory, she put hint
off—and was fined for having paid less than
the union rate, her plea that she had paid
him as much as she could afford and more
than his languid exertions were worth being
useless in industrial law. Imprisonment
was the default, add to prison she was con-
signed, until friends made a fuss about it,
and secured her release. What a grand
country ours is for Government clerks and
union secretaries !


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“H.H.J.”: One of Melbourne’s largest
hospitals has a strict rule that there must
be no social intercourse between the medical
staff and nurses, on or off duty. Recently
a young medico and a pretty nurse were
seen at_a talkie together, and some busybody
reported them. The matron regarded it as
a grave breach of discipline, and suggested
dismissal; but the superintendent, a
kindly soul, thought a severe reprimand
would be punishment enough. Accord-
ingly he had the 20 nurses who were off
duty on the night in question paraded
before him. He said that he would mention
no names, but one of them had been guilty
of a serious breach of the rules; if the
offender would call at his office he would
see what could be done. Eleven of the
twenty reported.
Me Me Me *
“C.Q.” : The competition of the baby car
has almost killed the industry of jinker- and
buggy-building in Vic., as far as local
consumption is concerned; but such
vehicles are still being made for poten-
tates in India, Java and Malaya. Coffey
Brothers recently received an order for
a jinker from Australia’s old acquaint-
ance the, Sultan of Johore. The last time
I was in Jogjakarta, Java, I inspected the
stables of the Sultan of that principality.
It was full of Australian horses and there
were some of Coffey’s vehicles, glittering in
scarlet and gold. Having no political power,
Oriental rulers rely on prestige to retain
their hold on the populace and there is
more dignity in being rolled along in a car-
riage than rushed about in a motor-car.
Moreover, tradition insists that a Javanese
prince shall never be seen without a cere-
monial umbrella held by a slave over his
august head, and the difficulty of keeping
a gamp in that position on an automobile
travelling at 40 miles an hour is obvious.
M: M< * *
“X.S.”: A thief, described as thin, agile
and young, has been breaking into the homes
of some of Melbourne’s leading citizens, in-
cluding that of Frank Clarke, President of
the Leg. Council. This particular depreda-
tor shows no interest in jewellery and plate,
confining his attentions to the larder, the
sideboard and the cellar. He shows a cul-
tivated palate in the matter of cocktails,
whisky and wine. On one occasion he sur-
prised an old lady in her sitting-room. She
promptly fainted, and when she came to
found that her visitor had taken nothing
more expensive than a soda and Scotch.
“Mells”: In the House of Reps, last week
Victor Thompson (C.P.) “complained that
Mr. Ward and his Lang colleagues had brought
the debates in the Federal Parliament down
to the level of those in the State Parlia-
ment.” It recalls a remark I heard made
on one of the unregistered racecourses in
Westralia some,2o years ago. A particu-
larly glaring ramp had been perpetrated,
and the stewards, after a perfunctory in-
quiry, decided that there was nothing to
call for any official gesture of displeasure.
“Blime!” commented one rough-looking
devotee of Horse explosively but with obvi-
ous sincerity, “this here is getting nearly
as bad as the registered!”
Ms * * *
“Gelt”: The part played by aircraft in
the developing of the. New Guinea goldfields
is a notable one.
Recently Pilot Wilt-
shire, of the Guinea
Airways, in a
Junker W 34, put up
a record number of
trips for one day
from Salamoa (on
the coast) to Wau,
32 miles inland. He
hopped off ten times
from the coast and
carried in all seven
tons of cargo. All
the world’s freight
records are claimed
by the aerial trans-
port companies
operating on those
goldfields.
* *
“Applejack”: A
queer thing about
Prohibition in tin;
U.S.A. is that the
South is more in
favor of it than the
North, and is ex-
pected to resist its
overboarding far
more strenuously.
Somehow this seems
to upset all one’s
preconceived notions.
The New England
States were colon-
ised in an atmo-
sphere of Puritan-
ism, which has clung
about some of them
ever since. One’s
ideas of the South,
on the other hand,
dating from the Civil
War and before it,
featured a people
l’esentful of any kind
of Government in-
terference with their
liberty even the
liberty to own
slaves —and always
a great deal more
sociably and hospit-
ably inclined thau
the Northerners. A
flavor of mint julep
still lingers about
the very name of
Virginia. And the
habit of going dry really began in the North ;
Maine was the State that led the way. Yet
now it is the North, rather than the South,
which finds bone-drouth too irksome to be
borne any longer.
* * =;= *
“11.5.” :We are developing into the most
slavish copyists on earth. Leisured nitwits of
the type of Mrs. Barney, who recently shot her
lover in London, start giving Bottle Parties,
Pyjama Parties, Sausage-and-Mashed Parties,
Sunday-morning Cocktail Parties and the
like, and a few months later herds of soli-
citors, accountants, dentists and shop assist-
ants and their girl friends start doing like-
wise in Sydney. As fast as a stunt paper
in London gets hold of an idea it is pinched
by local stunt papers. Men wear top-hats
on ceremonial occasions in London, so at
local weddings rugged-faced lads who have
never worn top-liats before turfi up at
churches hatted, spatted and tail-coated—
pathetic burlesques of the Mayfair article.
It is the same with phrases. “Shy-making,”
which has had a standing in London for
three or four years, has just arrived; local
bores have begun to be “crashing,” and so
on. And there are the dozens of Yankee
phrases, mostly foolish, that we get from the
talkies. Practically all our prejudices, poli-
tical, religious, social and cultural, are im-
ported. There are reasons for them in their
country of origin (for example, the propa-
ganda designed to show that all U.S.A. films
VISIBILITY BAD.
DAD: “ I suppose that’s all he could see of her through the bathroom window.”
were rotten was started when the British
and Yankee films came to grips), but most
of them are meaningless here. Two things
this country badly needs are independent
thinking and new criteria. At present fully
90 per cent, of the inhabitants are taking
the whole of their thinking, habits, manners
and criteria from the other side of the
world.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: I cannot agree with the
contention of “F.S.” that tradition has
everything to do with athletic ascendancy
(B. 14/9/’32). To speak of it as operating
in the cricket of Australia, a tiny growth of
less than three generations, seems straining
the point. In the case of the Italians, who
have done so well in Olympic Games of late
years, it may be permitted to hark back to the
days of gladiators and circuses. Anyhow,
throughout the ages the Italian has been
a soldier and a swordsman of renown, which
may account for his quite modern outbreak
into sport as we know it to-day. In Finland,
however, the beginnings of its misty history
show that the principal sports were wizardry
and. the cutting of neighbors’ throats.
only a few years since the Finns became
heard of as long-distance runners, and they
have scooped the pool in these events at the
Olyiiipiads and elsewhere ever since. Where
does tradition come in here?
“Tandsticker”: The preliminary report of
the administrators of the Kreuger bank-
ruptcy, says a cable from Stockholm, states
that Kreuger was a criminal, not a business
man. Which recalls one of the mjnor tra-
gedies of modern journalism. When the
much-advertised “Match King” was at the
apparent height of his power and wealth,
overstriding the European world like a
colossus, the “Saturday Evening Post,”
which boasts a circulation of nearly three
millions, gave him one of the comprehensive
and glowing write-ups it reserves for great
figures, political and commercial. He
appeared as a captain of industry whose
shrewdness and industry and rugged honesty
had raised him to a pinnacle that even Ford
could never reach. And, just when the
panegyric had gone forth irrecoverably to
everj' part of the world, the subject of it
inconsiderately committed suicide, leaving be-
hind him the biggest financial smash on
record.'’
❖ t\: *P
“Binduli”: The rare cunning and shrewd
reasoning of “Nikko’s” friend William in
the Auckland strike (B. 14/9/’32) had a
parallel on the Trans, line a few months
ago. The rule there was, and for that
matter still is, that stowaways nabbed on
the trains shall be carried back to the Kal-
goorlie end or the Port Augusta end. which-
ever they started from, there to face the
beak. Officialdom can’t dump them off and
leave them in the middle of the Nullarbor
Plain. Mostly they are routed out and re-
turned by the next train available before
they have travelled far; but there are excep-
tions. Two hard-bitten swagmen, starting
from the S. Aus. side, managed to cover
about a third of the distance across the
dreary thousand miles, with several inter-
ruptions and dislocations, many tedious
vigils under tarpaulins and quite a number
of hairbreadth ’scapes. Having got that far
they evolved a better plan. They left the
trucks under cover of night and jumped a
train going eastward. Within an hour they
were apprehended —they saw to that —but
within half a day they were being carried
in the direction in which they wanted to go
'—in custody of course, but with no further
fear of being headed back. And tlm beak
at their destination let them down lightly,
as he mostly does. Had he heard the full
story it might have been otherwise,, but I
have a sneaking idea that such resourceful-
ness would have impressed him.
“Runa”: A family living in a suburb of
Auckland (M.L.) owned a pet tortoise which
usually rested content in the extensive
grounds which surrounded the house. But
once a year some urge would send
him hiking. It took him half a day
to travel across the pavement and as
far as the tramline. Motorists got to
know him, and learned to circumnavigate
him, while tramdrivers acquired the habit
of pulling up and considerately restoring the
wanderer to the safety of his own garden.
This would happen daily for about a week,
after which the tortoise would stay quietly
at home for another year. As nobody stole him
or damaged him in any way, he survived
his great annual adventure for about a
quarter of a century.
* * * *
“ Jeames” : From a cable :—•
Mr. S. M. Bruce, in reply to Mr. Ernest Cock-
burn, who wrote to the newspapers in support of
the Portuguese wine trade, pointed out that whereas
in the period 1927-30 winegrowers in Australia pur-
chased yearly goods valued at k 8 per head, the
corresponding figure for Portugal was 10s. 6d.
The Cockburn firm has been importing port
to Britain for over a century, and exporting
it to Australia for over half a century, so
the bias of the present head of the firm on
the subject is understandable. But it is
futile. 'Britain is buying more and'
more Australian port every year; last year
it bought 390,137 gallons from Australia
as against 304,255 gallons from Portugal.
The British didn’t do it because we bought
more goods from them than the Por-
tuguese did, but because they are getting
to like our port better than most of the
stuff Portugal is sending them. We may
never produce such port as Meredith’s char-
acters enthuse about in “The Egoist. ' but
we are already turning out better stuff than
the port (or rather Lisbon) of the average
London bodega. Twenty years ago such a
contingency would have seemed as remote as
an Australia-England flight.
* * * *
“Toby”: “Clarendon” (B. 31/8/’32) is
not quite accurate in his paragraph on the
parent vineyards of S. Aus. It was the
Cromptons who started (and still own)
Stonyfell olive grove; Davenport’s vineyard
and olive grove were at Beaumont. And it
is the Fullerton Clelands who have carried
it on, not Davenport Cleland, a brother of
Fullerton, who was a mining engineer in
Westralia. Other branches are the Lennox
Clelands, who run to science, and the
Erskine Clelands, who chase costs.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: A book reviewed on the
Red Page some time ago concerned a man
who was born under such tangled circum-
stances in a border town of Poland that he
could claim no nationality, and spent his
life bewailing his inability to cheer for any
flag. Melbourne has just had a visit from
a woman in similar case. She is Mrs. Bush
Wagner, wife of an American missionary
located in S’Africa. Mrs. Wagner was born
in Australia, but lost her British nation-
ality by marrying an American citizen. But
Uncle Sam is unable to take her to _ his
star-spangled bosom until she has resided
for a fixed period in Hooverland. As she
went straight to South Africa, this she has
failed to do, so no passport authority on
earth can give her a true bill. She was able
to revisit her homeland and return ©my by
special permit from the Union, counter-
signed by the Federal authorities. all
sounds as mad as the case of the Cemong
boy, Belcher, who has just had to _ leave
school in order to serve as a conscript m
the Argentine.
TIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Lady Chaytor, the English airwoman and fashion
expert, bitterly criticises the clumsy way in which
the average Australian knots his necktie.’’
Brothers, a judex elegantiarum
Drops (almost literally) from the skies.
From dinner-jackets down to harum-scarum
Skirts there’s no point to which she isn’t
wise;
And, oh! she weeps to note the way you
wear ’em,
Your neckcloths, stocks, cravats —in
short, your ties.
Worse than depression, deadlier than the
dole,
It strikes a chill to her aesthetic soul.
No social butterfly, she’s scoured aerial
Regions along with other human birds,
And counted all the dangers immaterial
Besetting him or her the earth who girds
And ever closer draws the ties imperial.
But this she finds too saddening for words,
The plain unmitigated clumsiness
That marks and mars this detail of your
dress.
Brothers, to see ourselves some power the
giftie
Invoked by Burns will now and then
allot.
What boots it we have athletes fleet and
nifty,
Bradman at block or Lindrum on the spot,
When positively not one man in fifty
Knows how to tie a proper sailor’s knot
With that precision which in other lands
Fashion decrees and elegance demands?
What though we’ve Kingsford Smiths and
such humdingers,
Lords of the air to win the world’s
acclaim,
Statesmen to balance budgets, tuneful
singers
Whose notes have set the very Thames
aflame,
Scholars and massive scientists —and
“ringers”
At pretty nearly ev’ry craft and game,
When scarce a man, from Darwin to the
Speck,
Can twist a neckcloth featly round his neck!
FASHIONS OF 1905.
[An unpublished drawing by the late Alf Vincent.]
“He wanted to make love to me.”
“Like his impertinence.”
“Yes, it wasn’t bad—though I’ve seen better!”
Brothers, with care and concentration
greater
Bethink beneath your chins you yet may
place
Knots that would win an artist’s imprimatur
For faultless symmetry and tender grace,
Something to dry the tears of Lady Chaytor
And make her glow anew with pride of
race.
And. if you can’t manipulate it so
With all your tugs, best buy a made-up bow.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


, “Kerys”: Now that Sydney is full of
incipient Greta Garbos and Marlene Diet-
riches, wlio have supplanted the vampisli
Pola. Negris and Theda Baras of a decade
ago, I gaze upon them in tram and train
and marvel at the excellence of their imita-
tions. I travelled up to Darlinghurst with
a Greta who was complete in every
detail, and was wondering how slic managed
it. when a heavy and florid individual boarded
the tram. It started off. as trams mostly
do, before he was seated, and in his subse-
quent grab for something to cling to he
collided with Greta and clutched at her
flaxen tresses. The next moment he Was
stuttering apologies and offering a haughty
and indignant damsel a handful of straw-
colored liair affixed to a wired base. Greta,
temporarily bereft of the most important
part of her make-up, descended at tlie. next
stop for repairs.
“Podsuap”: A “World” man asked Pre-
mier Stevens what be thought of Sybil
Thorndike’s acting. “I thought so much
of it,” was the answer, “that it sent
me to sleep.” He considered “St.
Joan”—or, rather, what he heard of it
while he was awake —“poor stuff.” Sir
Harry Eve, the London High Court Judge,
did even better on the subject of music. F.
H. Maugham, K.C. (now a Judge), was
appearing for Sir Thomas Beecham in a
bankruptcy matter, and mentioned that bis
client had spent a fortune trying to promote
grand opera in England. “What is the
good of grand opera?” asked the Judge.
One’s heart warms to such men. They voice
the unspoken thoughts of thousands. I was
in the stalls on the first night “St. Joan”
was played in Sydney, and from time to
time I glanced at the faces around me, Never
have I seen boredom and bewilderment in-
scribed more plainly on human counten-
ances than on those of such of my neighbors
as were not, like Premier Stevens, asleep.
It was much the same during the recent
opera season ; nearly everybody in sight at the
shows I attended seemed thoroughly puzzled.
There were guilty laughs from time to time at
the comic acting or figures of some of the
principals, hut for the most part the sufferers
went through with the painful business
PETER AND PAUL.
“How do you mean her love is Apostolic?”
“Why, it palls as his cash peters out.”
iu weary silence. At long intervals —per-
haps once in a generation—some Caucasian
Gandhi, such as Premier Stevens or Sir Harry
Eve, dares to voice the unspoken thoughts of
our cultural untouchables. It does an im-
mense service to the cause of freedom. Thus
the Premier’s courageous remarks about
“St. Joan” will probably inspire scores of
golfers, bowlers, s.p. bettors, etc., to say
boldly that they arc with Stevens, and that
they won’t sit through the “Medea” this week,
even though the Games and all Bellevue
Hill pretend to like the incomprehensible
thing.
“Spare Rodin”: That bloomer about the
missing nails in the boots of the swagman
beneath Henry Lawson’s statue (B.
ld/9/’32) is one instance among thousands
of artists’ infidelity to detail. In Vandyek’s
immortal statue of Charles I. —a magnificent
equestrian portrait which shows that the
Arab or the Barb horse was known in Eng-
land long before the dates assigned by the
experts—tlie saddle has no girths. In
“Across tin' Bkckso.il Plains,” by the late
George Lambert, who devoted almost as much
of his life to horse knowledge as to painting,
there are no belly-bands to keep the chain-
traces of the straining horses down—or
there weren’t when I last saw it. Lambert,
however, was very sensitive to criticism, and
he may have corrected his blunder.
* * * *
“Pawang”: One of the most elaborate
examples of organisation at Melbourne
General Hospital is concerned with the care
of three grammes of a white crystalline sub-
stance, enough to fill an eggeup. Immense
precautions are taken to provide that it is
returned to the safe deposit after it has been
admitted to a ward. The dust from the
ward is kept for a week, dressings are micro-
scopically examined, and tlie dustbins gone
over with an electroscope. The reason for
all the pother is that the substance is
£60,000 worth of radium, held in trust by
the hospital for tlie Commonwealth Gov-
ernment. A lost needle was once traced to
i lie City Council rubbisli-tip, and experts
went all over the immense heap of litter with
detecting instruments until they located tin-
stray.
“Si Anu”: British
officials in Asia have
a high reputation for
tolerance t; owa r d s
native beliefs, but
authority in Malaya
failed to live up to ii
recently when a spring
was suddenly discov-
ered to have magical
properties by an elder-
ly Chinaman who hap-
pened on it in the
jungle. After wash-
ing himself with tin-
waters be discovered
lie had lost the lum-
bago from which be
had been suffering for
years. He hurried
home to spread the
glad news, and in a
few days the remote
gully was packed
with hundreds of the
halt, the maimed, the
scrofulous and suffer-
ers from lepr o s y.
Some carried bottles
of the fluid home, and
the fame of its benefi-
cent effects spread far
and wide. Whether
vendors of patent
medicines became
alarmed or the police
were shocked at this
evidence of g l-oss
superstition, it is diffi-
cult to say, but a
fence was put around
the sacred spot and
Sikh gendarmes post-
ed to keep the seekers
after health away.
Finally the Government poured cement down
the source of the spring, and that was the
end of the Malayan Lourdes.
“Chevroford”: Anybody who has seen the
elm and the plane growing to their full
habit, as they do in some glorious avenues
in Adelaide, would be surprised at the treat-
ment of the species in Melbourne. Every
year the trees planted in the streets grow
up to the level of the power and telephone
lines and their heads are promptly cut off.
This process of decapitation has gone on
in cases for 50 years; as long ago as that
it was proposed to put the cables under-
ground, but the cost was considered to be
prohibitive. The result is that the trees
gradually acquire a girth like an alderman,
while producing at the top a quaint umbrella
of leaves, the rest of their surplus energy
being expended in (lie shape of suckers with
which the suburban gardener tights a des-
perate battle. A sensible provision would
have been to plant only trees or shrubs that
grow to a moderate height—there are plenty
of Australian varieties—but nobody seems to
have thought of this.
“X.S. V ; As a change from the usual pro-
cedure, the beneficiaries m an estate of £BOO,
left by a deceased seaman in .Melbourne,
have refused to submit their claims over a
• period of .‘l6 year*. The original legatee
disappeared and the trustees decided he was
dead. They tried to get in touch with his
wife, but she, too, vanished into thin air.
Then one of the sons went into smoke for
ln 1925 he wrote from the U.S.A.
asking the trustees to administer the estate.
Then lie disappeared. The only member of
the family who has not done the vanishing
trick is resident in Vic. A romantic ex-
planation would be that there is a curse on
the old man’s gold.
* * *
“Biuns”: “Pawang,” who 1 shudders at
the barbarity of the. most barbarous mur-
derer being hanged, asks me to explain why
hanging used not to be a deterrent to petty
thieving (B. 14/9/’32). Probably no penalty
that was ever devised has proved a really
effective deterrent to any class of crime,
but there is one at least which ensures
that tin- particular criminal dealt with
won’t break any human laws again. Be-
cause men are no longer banged for petty
I HIS WIFE WON’T LET HIM.
“When is your marriage with Jim coming off?”
“It's been indefinitely postponed."
“What’s wrong?”
“Oh, lie’s married another girl.”
thieving or boiled in oil for coining, is that
a reason why the most terrible and final
of punishments should not remain on the
statute book for the most terrible and final
of crimes. I wonder what “Pawang” would
do to the Doemings and tlie Moxleys.
He _ would hardly loose them on society
again, I take it —they would be immured
for life. In which case, from the humani-
tarian point of view, are the warders who
guard lifers, and are paid to see they are
deprived of all that makes life worth living
for 20 or 30 or 40 years, doing any less
odious work than the hangman? I can’t
see it, any more than I can see why the
hangman, who is merely the last link in
the chain of the lav 7 , should incur all of
the obloquy that attends an execution. But
I suppose he will continue to do so until
capital punishment can be inflicted by some-
body pressing a button.
“Capel”: There may be some affinity
between the American “bo” and the East
Anglian “bor,” but “Say Bo” is wrong
when lie says that the latter is the equiva-
lent of “boy” (B. 17/8/’32). “Bor” is
simply the old English word “boor” in its
original meaning—it has degenerated since—
of a rustic or peasant. In Suffolk you may still
hear it daily as a friendly term used by
one villager in addressing another, but it
is wholly rural; the townsman hardly ever
employs it.
* * 4 .
“Binjimin” : In a recently-published book,
“Oars, Wars and Horses,” Vivian Nickalls,
that great all-round English sportsman,
makes an Australian soldier who met an
M.F.H. exercising his pack—a duty usually
assigned to the hunt servants- —say “Fine
lot of dogs you’ve got there.” Of course,-the
master retorts indignantly “Hounds, man,
hounds.” If students of Surtees will look
up “Handley Cross” they will find the im-
mortal grocer of Great Coram-street simi-
larly correcting a neophyte. But Jorroeks
put it rather more emphatically. “ ’Ounds,
d —n yer, ’ounds,” was his riposte.
“Ex-Dig.”: The wide scattering of men
of the A.I.F. after the war; when the
authorities permitted
the i r discharge
abroad and even
assisted them in
pursuing their whim-
sies, is recalled by
a cable concerning
the death of pros-
pector liuflicld. He
was found buried in
the sand near a
desert goldmine 30
miles north of Kos-
seir. ' Duffield, being
a prospector, doubt-
less kept his cars
open for tales of
auriferous country
when he went to
Egy p t with the
A.1.F,; and when
the war was over he
grabbed the privi-
lege extended to fol-
lovt some of the
gleams. All sorts of
claims were made to
the A.I.F. authori-
ties. One man at
least went to the
Hudson Bay coun-
try to study trapping; a couple secured
assistance to go squatting in Morocco; and
a man who said he was a lion-tamer by
occupation applied for (but was refused)
help to meet the lion in his Central Afri-
can lair.
“D.”: For centuries Jews were allowed
to accumulate wealth. Then improvident
Christian sovereigns or Governments would
manufacture a grievance, dispossess the pro-
testing capitalists and turn them loose to
build- up fresh fortunes. In the sixteenth
century a similar procedure was adopted
with-the R.C. Church. Last month in Eng-
land St. Holier’s, a famous country house
which cost thousands to build, was sold with
the park in which it stands for £7. It was
merely a logical development of the old
practice. The heirs of the late. Lord Trent,
who built the huge place, have been robbed
of their equity in it in much the. same
way as ecclesiastics and Jews were robbed
of their possessions in the past,; and as
they are still being robbed in semi-civilised
countries like Spain and Russia. The only
difference is that in England, Australia and
elsewhere the pillaging is being done by
taxation officials instead of soldiers. The
Nottingham rates were what brought I In-
value of St. Helier’s from £25,000 or there-
abouts, to £7. They work out at 14s. in the £.
“Ex-Sahib” : For the benefit of “Mehtar,”
who derides the idea of an about-to-bc-exi -
euted Indian murderer being able to salaam
to anyone (B. 7/9/’32), may I quote an
extract from my diary dealing with the
execution I witnessed at Vellore gaol in
1921.:
Next came the victim, between two armed warders.
The man arrived handcuffed. Tin: armed warders
took up a position on either side of the entrance while
two convicts at the drop—no native warder will do
such a service—were manipulating ropes, hood,, etc.
and the victim was left to stand at one side. He
seemed quite unconcerned, and when he caught sight
of us (in police uniform) regarding- him across the
level of the drop, he made a low salaam. The man
was then motioned on to the scaffold, where his feet
were tied, his handcuffs removed, his arms bound
to his side, a hood tied over his head and th<
rope fixed in position, about his neck.
The point is tliat condemned murderers ai
not always pinioned before being led to th
gallows.
“O. Coral” : Touching those bearskin
I was recently reading “The Narrative o!
Captain Coignet,” which records the adveii
turns of one of Bonaparte’s soldiers of fot
tunc. Here there are several references to
the usefulness of the huge bearskins, ISin.
high, which the men of his regiment wore ;
and it is mentioned that when the French
took possession of a Prussian village where
there was a great deal of sealed wine, the
bearskins carried a full cargo. “Each gv.-na-
dier had three bottles,” says Coi&uct;
“two in his bearskin cap, one in his pocket.”
“R. Volt”: The International Radk Con-
ference, meeting at Madrid, debated for two
hours as to what should be its official lingo
without coming to a, decision. The Russian
delegate suggested Russian, as it k spoken
by 160 million people; the Australian
delegate, J. M. Crawford, countered by sug-
gesting English, as it is spoken by 250 mil-
lions. Ostensibly the official language of
radio is French, as it is of the international
telegraphs, but in practice English las driven
all other languages but. World communica-
tions of all sorts are mostly in tlie bauds
of English-speakers.
* * * *
“D.” : One of my complaints aga,nst most
English films Is that they’re so exaspera-
tjngly American. In five out of tlie last
seven viewed by this deponent tlurc have
been night-club scenes. Hardly anybody goes
to night clubs in London nowadays, When
I was there last the Embassy and one or
two more in the Bond-street area a few
such as Ciro’s behind Trafalgar-sqmue, and
Mrs. Meyrick’s (which served tlie equivocal
purposes of the old-time Alsatians, and are
now dead) supplied tlie needs of the 7,000.000
residents of the metropolis and its suburbs.
The explanation is that the English, being
citizens of a more or less free country, can
enjoy most of the amenities of night clubs
without belonging to them. In New York
there are said to be 3000, and the othei
cities and towns seem to be well supplied
also. It is right that night clubs should
figure in American films, and that scenes of
drunken revelry should be shown occurring
in them—a matter of the bad liquor which
is causing drunkenness to be taken for
granted in the U.S.A. Hardly any of the
hilarious events shown in the night-club
THE SPELLING LESSON.
“A-d-a-rn—now what is that?”
“A-d-a-m — a-dam. Oh, that's the thing my daddy says he doesn’t
care about.”
Scenes of: “Aren’t We All?” and “This Is the
Night” (to take the latest English films)
could possibly have happened in Loudon.
The Embassy is as sober as the Athenaeum,
and Giro’s, which looks something like the
one Walls and Lynn push into in “This Is the
Night,” is, it! anything, quieter. Such places
concentrate on good food and wine rather
than on nudity and inebriation. Some of
these English producers, seem to be so desti-
tute of initiative that they would rather libel
their own people than get away from the
movie conventions of Hollywood.
SPRING WALKS THE WORLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Spring walks the lovely world, and shows
To every clime and race
Some chosen flower for mirroring
The beauty of her face.
Primrose to some, or daffodil,
Lilac or cherry-bloom ;
To some the strong wild 'ecstasy
Of sea-wet gorse and broom.
Spring walks the lovely world and throws
To each her herb of grace—
For me it’s brown boronia
On safe iu Martin-place.
TV.S.W.
KATHLEEN McKAY.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DITBCtOTS *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
Rra , , London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C-.8.
, c | throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
rai territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
an ci world.
CA rr r\pnrvrm!! B °t General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Queensland’s progress
is the story of "The Brisbane
Courier’s” growth—and vice
versa. Her greatest newspaper is to-day an essential part of Queensland s
daily life, and is found in every grade of home throughout Queensland.
for 87 years
0 Has the Largest Nett Circulation
and the Greatest Home Delivery.
/member^
4wiDn
I[B ! u®ieavij ®t
OIiR'CIIAJIW*
s ’he n " 1 •
Brisbane Courier
QUEENSLAND’S FOREMOST DAILY NEWSPAPER SINCE 1846.
Representative: ROBT. L>. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 85007.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Herbert Phillipps, chairman of the Sav-
ings Bank of S. Aus., has just completed 30
years in that position, wiping out Ihe record
of liis predecessors, Henry Ayers and Edwin
Smith. He was on the board before that,
and has attended close on 2500 board
meetings.
One of the editors of “Farrago,” Mel-
bourne University’s weekly paper, which has
caused the authorities some concern owing
to its spasmodic radicalism, is P. Lalor, a
grandson of Peter Lalor, of Eureka Stockade
fame. Ilis father was Captain Lalor, killed
in the first day’s fighting on Gallipoli, where
he earned the family sword into action.
There can’t be many instances of two
brothers rising so high in their respective
and widely-differing callings as that afforded
by James and Joseph Carruthers. Tlie
former, who died last week in Sydney, aged
X 4, entered the Methodist ministry as a
young man of 20, and before he retired
from circuit work at, 66 had occupied
all the prominent positions in the gift of
his Church. For years after that he remained
a leading figure at ecclesiastical conferences,
a Nestor among clerics, whose opinions car-
ried the weight earned by a long lifetime of
earnest and zealous service. Victoria Uni-
versity, Toronto, made him a D.D. and he
was an author of distinction. The Rev.
.Tames was nine years the senior of his
brother Joseph, whose Parliamentary life has
covered 45 years, and who was Premier of
N.S.W. from 1904 to 1907. Joseph returned
from a holiday trip to Honolulu only a day
or two before his brother’s death.
A. Montgomerie Severn, who died at
Bellevue Hill (Sydney) last week, came of
a stock that has a place in English literary
history. ll,is grandfather, Joseph Severn,
an artist of note, was the devoted friend
of Keats, and watched by the poet’s death-
bed in Rome —years later Joseph Severn
was British Consul in the same city.
Joseph’s son Arthur, uncle of “Monte,”
also an artist and still living in England,
was just as intimately associated with' John
Ruskin and has published recollections of
that great writer. A. Montgomerie Severn
married the youngest daughter of the late
Alfred Stephen, a former Chief Justice of
N.S.W.
Australia lost some men whose memories
will live long in her aerial annals when a
New England Airways monoplane crashed
near Byron Bay (N.S.W.) on Sunday, tak-
ing its three occupants, Captain Les Holden,
Dr. G. R. Hamilton and Ralph Virtue
( pilot), to instant death. Captain Holden w*as
born at Adelaide, and went to the war with
the Royal Australian Air Force, where he
made a name for skill and courage which he
Captain LES HOLDEN.
has amply sustained ever since. Dr. Hamil-
ton, not yet 40, was a son of the late Judge
Hamilton, of Sydney; lie, too, .saw war ser-
vice as regimental medical officer with the 4th
Battalion. Since then he had become one of
Macquarie-street’s best-known skin special-
ists, but flying was his hobby, and some-
thing more than his hobby, and _it had
brought, him and Captain Holden into the
closest intimacy. When the Southern Cross,
with Kingsford Smith, C. T. Ulm and two
others, went, missing in the Kimberley
(W.A.) district in April, 1929, it was
Holden and Hamilton in the Canberra who
risked their own lives, covering some 9000
miles before success crowned their search,
to save those of the stranded men. Captain
Holden and Dr. Hamilton were on their
way to a fishing cruise on the Barrier Reef
when Sunday’s tragedy overtook them; tin;
former had been successfully pioneering
commercial aviation in New Guinea this last
year or two. Ralph Virtue, who was born
'in the Lismore (N.S.W.) district 27 years ago,
was a well-known and careful pilot with
several years’ experience.
James William Butcher, who has suc-
ceeded Malcolm Fraser (now Under-Secre-
tary of Internal Affairs) as Maoriland’s Stati-
stician, has been in the Statistical Branch for
20 years, having joined it a year after Fraser
took charge. For three years he was second
J. W. BUTCHER, new Government Statist
of Maoriland.
in command, and he took over the editorship
of the “Yeai’-book” before his chief’s transla-
tion. His interests, outside tracing logarithmic
curves and computing the cost of living, are
walking and the war against cancer. He
was a “hiker” long before the ugly term was
heard in Australia, being a foundation
member of the Tararua Tramping Club,
which roams the dangerous and allegedly
tapu mountains in the vicinity of Welling-
ton. While exploring in that vicinity he
assisted in the discovery of a long-lost lake,
hitherto known only through Maori legend,
lie has written a book on his other hobby:
“Cancer in New Zealand.” Born in M.L.,
he recently had a 43rd birthday.
Harry Gregory, who set forth in the
House of Reps, last week all the woes of
Westralia under Federation, is a Victorian
who never saw the West until he was in
his thirties, and hasn’t seen much of it
these last 20 years, save at election times.
“Gloomy Jack” Prowse, who seconded
Gregory, claims Adelong (N.S.W.) for his
birthplace. It is remarkable that, out of
close on 40 representatives whom Westralia
has sent at one time or another to the
Federal Houses, three only have been sons
of the soil—John Forrest, E. A. Drake-
Brockman (now a Judge) and Senator E.
B. Johnston. Even in State politics there
has been no preponderance of the home-
grown article; of the State’s 14 Premiers to
date only Forrest, Leake, James, Moore,
Lcfroy and Mitchell were, or are, West-
ralian-born. And the only prominent man
in several Labor Cabinets who is a native
of the State is John M. Drew, who hails
from the old copper township of Northamp-
ton.
“Carpentaria”: The paragraph on Senate
President Lynch (B. 7/9/’32) omits any
mention of liis experiences in Queensland,
where he made his first acquaintance
with Australia as a youth of 18. He
battled over the 800 miles from Charleville
to the Croydon goldfield in 1886; there he
engaged in prospecting and reefing without
much luck. Thence he went to Thursday
Island, and started his seafaring life; he
qualified as an engineei-, but never followed
that calling. After the strikes of the ’nine-
ties he worked for C.S.R. in the Islands.
Coolgardie called him next. In Federal poli-
tics Lynch hasn’t had the best of luck. It
was by a single vote that he lost a seat on
the first Inter-State Commission. It was
also by a single vote that he missed the
Presidency three years ago.
Tom Nevitt, whose death in Cairns is
reported, was one of the best-known Labor
Parliamentarians in North Queensland. A
Cheshire man, his first job in the Far North
was as wardsman of Normanton- Hospital.
He had become secretary and dispenser when
he won the Carpentaria seat for Labor from
the formidable “Jeems” Forsyth in 1907.
He was re-elected several times and later
went to the Legislative Council, where he
was Chairman of Committees when the
Chamber was abolished in 1922. Until quite
recently he was visiting justice for the
Prisons Department, Brisbane.
Anthropological field work is being carried
out extensively in Mandated New Guinea
these days. Gregory Bateson, of Cam-
bridge University, is concentrating on an
area in the Sepik River district; the
work of his assistant. Miss Stephensou, is
confined to the female indigene. W. C.
Groves is investigating for the Australian
National Research Council the effects of
civilisation on the New Ireland natives.
Dr. Fortune and Dr. Margaret Mead (Mrs.
Fortune), from the U.S.A., are working the
inland areas in the Aitape district; previ-
ously this couple was engaged in social
investigations among the Mann natives, and
Dr. Mead’s book, “Growing Up in New
Guinea,” was the result.
The world lost one of its greatest bene-
factors with the death of Ronald Ross, whose
researches resulted in the discovery that
tlie female anopheles mosquito was the car-
rier of the dreaded micro-organisms respon-
sible for malaria, a scourge which has
destroyed many great nations. Ross’s dis-
covery made possible counter-measures and
to-day a considerable portion of the world
formerly malaria-stricken has been freed from
the curse. In the Indian Medical Service this
brilliant, scientist was long reckoned some-
thing of a crank; how he triumphed over
prejudice and ignorance is one of the
romances of Science. But his material
rewards were scanty. Though he won the
Nobel Price for Medicine in 1902 and
was given several Government appointments
there was little money ih them. The cable
announcing his death at 75 says his declin-
ing years were made easier by a special fund
of £5OOO. True, but every cent of that came
from the public.
J. T. Smith, who has just died in Brisbane
at 68, was the first white cnild born on Gape
York Peninsula. This was at Somerset, the
cattle station on Albany Pass taken up by
the Jardine brothers after one of the most
extraox-dinary droving-cum-exploration ven-
tures on record. Somerset overlooks the
Pass; near thei-e the Jardines located the
wreck of what was supposed to be a Spanish
treasure ship, and took from it a great amount
of silver in dollars and bars. It was the Somer-
set people, too, who were first on the scene
of the wreck of the ill-fated 8.1. steamer
Quetta, which ripped her bottom out on a
pinnacle rock in the Pass and carried most
of her crew and passengers to eternity.
Somerset once had hopes of becoming the
port for the Far North. When Thursday
Island was preferred J, T. Smith and many
others left the settlement.
A. S. Drakeford and the other representa-
tives of the railway unions put up a good
fight in the Federal Arbitration Court against
the 10 p.c. cut asked for by the N.S.W.
A. S. DRAKEFORD, who has been adding
to his reputation as a union advocate
before the Federal Arbitration Court.
Transport Commission; but the case was
hopeless. No cut is to be made, however,
that will bring the wage below the N.S.W.
basic wage. Drakeford, president of the
Labor party in Victoria, who was one of the
Labor men who lost their seats in the Vic.
Assembly a few months ago, appeared for
his old friends the locomotive men at the
hearing.
The appointment of William Baragwanath
as Sec. for Mines in the reorganised Vic-
torian department is welcomed by the min-
ing community. The, new head has been
director of geological survey since 1920, and
has been in the branch since 1597.
Although Hugh Main, N. S. Wales Min-
ister for Agriculture, was born in Ayrshire
(Scotland), he can pass for a good Aus-
tralian, seeing that he was only 12 months
old when he landed in South Australia. He
went to school at Tonbridge, in Kent, and
later at St. Peter’s, Adelaide. Roseworthy,
in the same State, taught him farming;
then he bought a wheat and sheep property
near Temora (N.S.W.). There he stayed,
adding to his acres and the esteem of his
HUGH MAIN , N:S.W. Minister for
Agriculture.
brothers on the land, until the war. He
joined up with the 20tli Battalion, and came
through without a scratch. After demobil-
isation his thoughts turned to politics, and
in 1920 the Country party tried him out
for the three-member Cootamundra electo-
rate. The result was startling; he un-
seated Holman, then Premier, who had re-
presented a portion of the electorate for 16
years. Main sat for the same district until
1927, when with the reversion to the single-
seat system he stood for and won the
Temora end of the electorate. For some
time he was Whip and secretary of the
Country party. He takes an interest in the
turf, and was the breeder of Salitros, winner
of the 1920 A.J.C. Derby. He is within a
year of the half-century.
Ah Tam, who sleeps now with his fathers
in the Flowery Land, was one of those fine
old Chinamen who have given their country-
men a good name in N.Q. and the Islands.
For over 40 years he had been trading and
storekeeping in the Mandated Territory of
New Guinea; it was said that he went
there after the antLChinese riots on the
Palmer (N.Q.). He was counted a “real
white man” and the lifts he gave to white,
yellow, brown and brindle unfortunates
were manifold. He returned to his native
Hongkong to die at 74.
Chief Justice Murray, of S.A., has ven-
tured to rank the best six “public adminis-
trators” the State has known. He names
Light, who fixed and laid out Adelaide;
Grey, who spent a few years there as Gov-
ernor ; Goyder, the Surveyor-General who
marked a reliable rainfall-line; Hartley, of
the Education Department; Todd, who built
the overland telegraph ;, and Way,, former
Chief Justice. Local critics suggest that
Sturt or Kingston did at least as much to
put S. Aus. on the map as some of these.
Walter Thomas, J.P., who died last week
at 88, had been for 56 years a member of the
Whittlesea (Vie.) Shire Council. As a boy he
remembered aboriginals catching eebs on
the present site of the Yan Yean Reservoir.
He had ' lived in the Mernda district for
over 80 years. His father, the late Moses
Thomas, was one of the founders of Scotch
College, Melbourne.
W, iC. Woodhouse, for many years chief
clerk of the Queensland Supreme Court, is
about to vacate the chair he has filled so
long and well. Woodhouse’s first job was
as a junior clerk in the office of the Official
Trustee in Insolvency—that was in 1874.
lie has had the unique experience of having
served under every Chief Justice in Queens-
land, from James Cockle to James Blair.
Samuel Williamson Wallace, the Edin-
burgh University professor who held the job
of Vic. Director of Agriculture and Acting-
Conservator of Forests from 1902 to
1905, died in London the other day.
In Vic. lie had to make his own tracks
in a new office, and hardly did himself
justice in his limited term of three years.
He returned to Scotland to become a county
councillor in his native Dumfriesshire, re-
tiring only a couple of years ago. He was
77 at the end.


The
WILD CAT
COLUMN
Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£, £. £ £
1922.. 199,485 7\ p.c. =174,385 25,100 129,961
1923.. 211,289 7} „ ~ 174,385 36,904 166,855
1924.. 215,257 74 „ „ 174,385 40,872 207,737
1925.. 228,118 7} „ ~ 174,385 53,733 261,470
1926.. 224,600 7i) „ ~180,198 44.402 305,872
, 1927.. 230,901 8 ~ ~ 186,011 44,890 350,762
1928.. 182,836 7 „ „ 162,759 20,077 370,839
1929.. 149,755 54., ~127,882 21,873 392,712
1930.. 162,726 6 „ ~ 139,508 23,218 415,930
1931.. 112,756 4 „ „ 93,005 19,751 435,681
1932.. 119,427 4 1 „ ~ 104,631 14,796 450,477
The sickness in the coal trade continued to
interfere with returns from that quarter;
the fleet could not be kept fully employed
owing to the slackness in industry generally
and consequent falling away of cargoes,
while interest-reduction legislation lightened
income from Government securitiels, etc.,
and the tax burden pressed heavily. Still,
passenger traffic improved, cargo earnings
were better towards the close of accounts,
and the sale of four freighters and the
scuttling of an old coal hulk helped to lighten
overhead.
So the board put the year’s nfet earnings
at £104,427, or £11,671 more than was
claimed for the previous term; it was a
trifle less than the 4i p.c. div. called for,
the final being at the rate of 5 p.c. p.a.
That was after £lO,OOO had been dropped
into the insurance account (£250,000) and
£5OOO into the repairs, renewals and replace-
ment reserve (£200,000) ; the “Wild Cat”
believes that these are accumulations of
genuine profit, and treats them accordingly.
Thus there was enough to show 5.1 p.c. on
capital as against 4.8, 7, 6.4, 7.8, 9.9 and
9.6 p.c. back to 1926.
Tbe market prices the pound shares,
which are covered by net tangibles with a
book value of 235. lid., at 21s. as against
15s. a year ago. The return at 21s. is 4.7
p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis —incidentally, 5
p.c. is worth 15 p.c. on capital as it stood
immediately before the three-for-onc gift
issue in 1919. Earnings now depend chiefly
upon activity in the shipping section of the
business. Here prospects have brightened a
little, owing to the sale of some of the sur-
plus tonnage and the better outlook for
trade generally. But it may be a while before
the co.’s coal interests, which used to contri-
bute substantially to the pool, again return
much in the way of dividends. The old
Abermain and East Greta cos., in both of
which Adelaide Steam was largely inter-
ested, are now’ merged with the Brown in-
terests in J. and A. Brown and Abermain-
Seaham Collieries, Ltd. (paid capital,
£1,900,007). The pits controlled by this
new co. include Pelaw Main, Richmond Main,
the two Abermains, Duekenfield, the tw r o Sea-
hams. Stockrington and the two Stanford
Mcrthyrs. For the 18 months to June 30 the
profit from the lot was £52,744, equal to
£35.163 p.a., or 1.8 p.c. on capital. A 6d.
div. (£47,500) has been declared. The ship-
ping co. also holds a large wad of low r-
interest-bearing Government paper, etc.,
which makes a part return of capital one of
the possibilities of the future.
Exactly how much money the co. has in-
vested outside the business, the nature
of the securities, and what was done with
the proceeds of last year’s sales are not
ascertainable from the published figures.
Here is the mixture, well compounded, as
the board puts it up:—
1929. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital . . £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
Sundry creditors* 245,562 108,877 111,272
Steamers, properties,
investments, etc. 2,531,147 ) 9 Q ,„
Commonwealth Loans 483,650 J -> yjrf > 7t >9 3,019,715
Stocks and stores 58,014 46,230 50,957
Book debts & cash 142,575 128,452 95,239
*Not including provident fund, £220,898 at June
30, 1932.
Any profit or loss there may have been on
the year’s sales has been adjusted through
inner reserves. The year’s surplus earn-
ings, including additions to the insurance
and renewal reserves, together with £8643
added to the provident fund (£220,898 —-
not included in the table), £2395 to tlm
amount coming to sundry creditors and a
reduction of £33,213 in debtors’ balances,
etc., enabled the book value of tbe blanket
item to be increased by £65,946.
Sargents, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 26,566 12J p.c. = 20,313 6,253 16,442
1923.. 16,728 10 „ „ 16,484 244 16.686
Profit on sale assets, £25,343 .. 42,029
1924.. 12,848 5 p.c. = 8,750 4,098 46,127
1925.. 34,328 15 „ „ 26,250 8,078 54,205
Profit on sale assets, £223 .. .. 54,428
1926.. 30,445 15 p.c. = 27,403 3,042 57.470
Profit on sale assets, £6550 .. .. 64,120
1927.. 38,859 15 p.c. = 32,686 6,173 70,293
Profit on sale assets, £6749 .. .. 77 042
1928.. 37,022 15 p.c. = 36,641 381 77,423
1929.. 40,007 15 „ „ 39,375 632 78,055
Unexplained reductions in reserves,
£9908 68,147
1930.. 26,766 10 p.c. = 26,697 69 68,216
Unexplained reductions in reserves,
£10,238 .. 57,978
Loss.
1931.. 5,087 Nil 52,891
Unexplained reductions, £1582 .. 51,309
1932.. 1,293 Nil 50,016
The chairman blames the taxgatherers, who
made off with £20,305 for the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts, mostly in
unemployment relief, rates and Federal land
levies. But much of the co.’s present
distress arises from the board’s vigorous
policy of property purchase during the
boom. While such a policy may give glitter-
ing results on a rising market, it spells trouble
on g falling one, especially where purchases
have been in excess of trade requirements.
To finance its deals the co. went heavily
into debt; the amount coming to outsiders
(£371,693) exceeded shareholders’ funds
(paid capital and reserves combined) by
£2I,SSS at the close of accounts in 1929.
Then the Melbourne business, including tho
freeholds and a £lOO,OOO mortgage, was sold
to Lucullus, Ltd., for £69,000 in scrip—-
23,000 8 p.c. prefs. and the balance ords.
Later 12,000 shares in City Property
Estates were accepted in connection with
the sale of one of the Sydney freeholds,
and £10,238 of reserves were rubbed out
to cover losses.
Meanwhile slump, the spread of unem-
ployment and growth of competition brought
a sharp contraction in earnings. Thus, after
a run of 15 p.c. divs. for the five years to
the close, of accounts in 1929. followed by
10 p.c. in 1930, losses instead of profits
have shown up. and shareholders have gone
hungry for the last two years. For the
12 months to June 30 gross earnings
(£181,563) fell away £20,637, making the
slip £123.951 over tlm last two years. Exes.
(£182,856) were £24,431 lighter, leaving the
loss £3794 less than the previous year’s at
£1293.. That is disregarding an unexplained
reduction . of £1582 in reserves. No divs.
were received from Lucullus, and whatever
the co. gained from intorest-reduction legis-
lation on the swings it lost on the round-
abouts.
During tbe year £5026 was added to the
overdraft (£36,260) and £4291 to the
amount coming to sundry creditors
(£50,206) ; there was little change in mort-
gages (£183,163) :
1924. 1929. 1931. 1932.
Capital . . £175,000 £272,050 £291,666 £291,666
Liabilities .. 82,646 371,693 260,622 269,629
Freeholds . . 128,550 576,428 338,696 338,819
Leaseholds .. 14,500 12,536 11,241 11,375
Plant, etc. .. 106,020 95,325 86,234 97,537
Stocks .. 20,324 29,431 17,211 6,568
Cash, debtors,
etc. .. 53,129 25,788 79,684 80,264
Shares in other
cos. .. 1,988 72,113 76,748
Thus the new money and a little more went
into plant, up £11,303. The reduction in
stocks and growth in the shares item pro-
bably has some connection with the forma-
tion of Sargents (Wholesale), Ltd. The
excess of liabilities over more or less liquids
(£152,797, including stocks, but not shares)
increased by £19,070 during the twelvemonth.
The pound shares, which fetched 38s. on
the market three years ago. are now priced
at 11s. The investor at 11s. who looks for
5i p.c. on his qjioney counts on the co. pay-
ing 3 p.c. It has gone into the wholesale
business in. order to help turnover, the ice-
cream section, which became a drag, has
been thrown into the discard, and further
relief is expected when some of the leases
expire during the current term. The posi-
tion would look a lot better if some of the
freeholds could be sold at a satisfactory
figure and the debt reduced.
Hume Pipe Co. (Australia), Ltd.
Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1923.. 53,977 10 p.c. = 43,375 10,602 64,185
Loss on Cobdogla plant, £23,583 .. 87,768
N.Z. establishment exes., £2038 .. 89,806
1924.. 17,556 Nil 17,556 72,250
Additional goodwill, £390 .. 72,640
1925.. 42,961 7 p.c. =, 35,000 7,961 64,679
Additional goodwill, £257 .. 64,936
1926.. 40,209 8 p.c. = 40,000 209 64,727
Additional goodwill, £l2O .. 64.847
1927.. 47,884 8 p.c. = 40,000 7,884 56,963
1928.. 53,229 8 „ „ 40,000 13,229 43,734
Shares in other cos. written up,
£76,455; added assets fluctuation
reserve, £31,455 12,279
Reserves.
1929.. 54,996 8 p.c. - 40,000 14,996 2,717
1930.. 54,565 6 „ „ 30,000 24,565 27,282
1931.. 17,147. Nil 17,147 44,429
1932.. 6,625 Nil 6,625 51,054
This co.’s plants slowed down as public
loan funds ran out and slump diminished
the volume of private orders _; also, competi-
tion forced reduction of selling prices. In
the Maoriland section of the business the
drift continued throughout the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts. In Australia
things improved during the last half of the
term; the plant and stock of three competi-
tors who w T ent out of business w T ere bought,
extensions were made to the Sydney works,
and new factories w’ere put up at Tam-
worth (N.S.W.) and Maryborough (Q.)
mobile equipment is erected wherever w’ork
offers. Still, net earnings were £10.522
lighter at 1.3 p.c. on the half-million capital
as against 3.4, 10.9. 11, 10.6. 9.5, 8 and
8.5 p.c. back to 1925. No div. was paid,
reserves being lifted to £51,054 in excess of
the book value of patents (£68,000). That
is leaving out of the reckoning the deprecia-
tion reserve, unchanged at £50,000, and the
provision for taxation and contingencies
(£22,885), which was drawn upon for
£10,634 during the year. Too much notice,
however, need not be taken of these paper
accumulations; more important is the state
of the co.’s finances, prospects of employ-
ment for the chief earning asset (the plant)
and the outlook for the subsidiaries.
Here is as much as balance-sheet figures
tell:—■
1921. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £322,515 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities .. 112,443 49,996 32,152 42,052
Freeholds, etc. 38,838’ 60,783 62,066 62,262
Buildings, plant,
etc. . . 92,478 224,373 243,486 244,958
Stocks . . 80,157 91,765 94,331 82,359
Uncompleted
work .. 39,132 2,987 435
Book debts .. 47,771 101,645 57,623 45,654
Loan . . 28,838 58,292 64,762
Cash, etc. .. 17,178 44,471 15,658 38,631
Shares in other
cos. .. 46,825 128,114 128,644 126,929
Notwithstanding the year’s purchases, the
book value of stocks was reduced by £11,972,
only £1323 was added to the plant item
(£197,416), while an extra £6470 was
advanced on loan to Hume Steel, and
cash, etc., was strengthened by £22.973.
Altogether the more or less liquid surplus
(£189,789, including stocks but not shares)
was £3963 lighter than at the close of
accounts in 1931.
The chief subsidiary, Hume Steel, which
used to pass on a lot of business to the
parent, is feeling the pinch ; its pref. divs,
have fallen over 12 months in arrears. It
is difficult to say when the ords., of which
the parent holds 165,000 at a cost of £416,
are likely to come into the picture. Much
depends upon how things pan out in con-
nection with the sale of foreign rights. The
Singapore co.. which has been the most suc-
cessful one of the group, paid 10 p.c. from
profits equal to 4.2 p.c. on capital for the
year to March 31.
The market, which notes that the Govern-
ments propose to spend a little on water
and other public works during the current
year, prices the parent’s pound shares at
10s. 9d. as against 6s. 6d. a year ago. At
10s. 9d., the return would be 61 p.c. on a
31 p.c. div. basis.
Castlemaine, Perkins, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ •£
36,076
1926.. 31,251 8 p.c. = 21,810 9,441 45,517
1927.. 42,678 8 „ „ 29,212 13,466 58,983
1928.. 48,741 10 „ „ 37,396 ( 10 = 6 q o 9 a
Provident fund, £lOOO ) 10,346 8
Perkin’s business absorbed; added
reserves, £20,000 .. .. 89,328*
1929.. 80,293 10 p.c. = 59,934 ( 1S
Provident fund, £l5OO j 1U8 ’ 187
1930.. 69,834 10 p.c. = 62,341 ) , Qqt ,
Provident fund, £l5OO f ,yy 4 ’
1931.. 59,007 8 p.c. = 49,958 ) n , q 199 99Q *
Provident fund, £lOOO ) B,U4y
Intangibles disclosed, £32,100 .. 90,129
1932.. 62,242 8 p.c. = 50,000 ) 10 100 371
Provident fund, £2OOO f 10 ”' 42 100,8,1
*Subject to an unspecified amount of intangibles.
It used to be the old Castlemaine Brewery,
Quinlan, Gray and Co., which jettisoned
half its capital in 1902. Including two gift
issues totalling £62,500, capital grew from
£78,669 in 1919 to £372,694 in 1927. Then
Perkins’s Toowoomba brewery, part of its
Brisbane plant and the trade of some 70
hotels were bought for £lOO,OOO in scrip, and
this co.’s name was changed to the present
title. The scrip (12s. 6d. face value) was
issued at a premium of £20,000 (= 2s. 6d.
per share), w’hich was added to reserves.
Later shareholders welcomed the oppor-
tunity to put up the money (£90,000) to buy
some of the hotel freeholds. Thus paid capi-
tal has become £625,000 in a million fully-
paid 12s. 6d. shares.
Though slump and unemployment have
affected turnover, and excise and other taxes
have mounted rapidly, very good results have
been shown. For the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts the declared * net profit
sprang £3235, reaching 9.9 p.c ; on capital
as against 9.4, 11.1 and 13.4 p.c. back to
1929, and 13, 11.6 and 11.4 p.c. shown by
the old co. for the three preceding years.
The div. was kept at 8 p.c., and it looks like
staying there for a while; the 2 p.c. bonus
sent out for the three years to the. close of
accounts in 1930 was dropped in 1931. The
disclosure of £32,100 of intangibles in con-
nection with the purchase of Perkins’s busi-
ness reduced the tangible reserves in support
of capital to £100,371 at July 31.
An encouraging feature is the way in
which the co. is digging in, as this next com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows
1927. 1929. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £372,694 £622,425 £625,000 £625,000
Liabilities .. 69,361 116,386 103,261 104,076
Brewery, plant,
etc. .. 159,029 310,370 313,312 ) „ nn
Warehouse .. 23,580 32,188 33,508 ) ’ 8
Hotels .. 151,095 268,474 326,419 426,691
Stock .. 66,516 108,257 79,341 67,111
Debtors . . 107,269 148,903 114,648 71,436
Cash, etc. . . 8,429 11,363 9,248 17,811
The intangible accounts for all but £14,232
of the £46,332 by which the book value of
the brewery, warehouse and plant was re-
duced during the year. The allowance for
depreciation and taxation, surplus earnings,
a reduction of £43,212 in debtors’ balances
and of £12,230 in the stocks item, enabled
£100,272 to be added to the book value of
hotels —more of Perkins’s properties may
have been bought. The pleasing feature
is that the co. did not have to go
outside for the money. The year’s
contraction in the more or less liquid
surplus (£52,282, including stocks) w T as
£47.694.
The scrip, which w T as at par on the
market a year ago, is now priced at 17s.
At that figure the return is 5.8 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. The backing is 14s. 6d.
in net tangibles.
Allen Taylor and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 17,708 10 p.c. = 15,000 2708 46,058
1923.. 17,018 10 „ „ 15,000 2018 48,076
1924.. 16,106 10 „ „ 15,000 1106 49,182
1925.. 13,142 10 „ „ 15,000 47,324
1926.. 13,655 9 „,, 13,500 155 47,479
1927.. 7,553 4 „ „ 6,000 1553 49,032
1928.. 1,843 Nil 1843 50,875
1929.. 3,145 Nil 3145 54,020
1930.. 409 Nil 409 54,429
Loss.
1931.. 29,990 Nil 24,439
1932.. 19,508 Nil 4,931
For 20 years after the public became inter-
ested in 1905 it was a steady 10 per center.
Then the more general use of reinforced
concrete and competition from imported
timber brought years of sorrow to the indus-
try. For the five years to the close of
accounts in 1930, the co.’s net earnings
averaged 3.5 p.c. on its £150,000 of capital
as against 10.5 p.c. for the preceding quin-
quennium. Weakened by the prolonged
struggle, slump sent many old-established
and reputedly sound timber concerns to the
wall, and the market became flooded with
liquidation stocks, thus making profitable
trading by the survivors impossible.
This co.’s mills, which are thoroughly effi-
cient and w’ell established in good forest
areas, have worked only intermittently for
thejast two years. For that period trading
losses totalled £49,498 —last year’s loss
(£19,508) was largely due to the continued
fall in prices; stocks were taken into
account at £21,734 below the 1931 figure.
Though prices generally are now gaining a
little strength, the outlook in the industry
is such that the earning capacity of this
and other timber cos.’ plants threatens to be
very moderate!, thus making necessary drastic
revision of asset values. Hence the board
proposes to reduce the figure at which fixed
assets appear by £64,487, or more than two-
thirds of their book value at May 31, and
to strike a further £7944 off the ledger
values of stocks, book debts, etc. To do
this and purge the accounts of the last two
years’ losses, half the capital is to be jetti-
soned, reducing it to £75,000 in 10s. shares,
and all but £7500 of the reserve fund
(£43,000 at May 31) rubbed out.
The following table shows the position
before and after the proposed writings
down:—■
After Writing
1929. 1931. 1932. Down.
Paid capital.. £150,000 £150,000 £130,000 £75,000
Liabilities . . 74,262 55,754 40,482 40,482
Country mills,
etc. .. 67,607 70,728 68,016
City wharves,
free holds, , „ n nftn
mills, plant, 30 ’ 000
etc. . . 14,094 13,531 13,531
Vessels . . 20,065 15,428 12,940
Book debts, etc. 56,680 38,034 34,912'
Stocks .. 65,140 44,055 22,321
Cash, invest- .
ments, etc. 54,697 48,416 43,693 .
Notwithstanding the deep cuts proposed,
the board doubts whether, at a forced sale,
fixed assets would fetch even their reduced
book values at the moment. There is, how-
ever, no suggestion that the co. will go into
liquidation. The real worth of the fixed
assets, therefore, is not their book value but
what they can earn; and past performances,
including those of the last half-dozen years,
are not much of a guide to' the future. The
recovery of the timber industry may not
be rapid. Still, the casualties should make
the path of the survivors less difficult; Allen
Taylor’s co. can be. expected to get its full
share of whatever business is offering, and
the writing-down of capital will make it
easier to pay divs. when profits emerge
again.
Allowing for the writing-down, the scrip
at 2s. Gd. would return S p.c. on a 2 p.c.
div. basis.
Peters-Arctic Delicacy Co. (Brisbane)
Net Towards
March, Profit. • Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 3,710 10 p.c. = 3312 398 29,515
1929.. 12,234 10 „ ~ 8250 3984 25,531
Goodwill sold to associate co., £5000.. 20,531
Nominal
Reserves.
Taxation and depreciation reserves in-
cluded, £34,280 • 13,749
1930.. 15,992 .5 p.c. = 7537 8455 22,204
Unexplaified additions, £7598 . . .. 29,802
1931.. 6006 Nil 6006 35,808
Unexplained additions,' £12,099.. .. 47,907
Depreciation ( £48,457) arid tax ( £519) Deficit.
reserves disclosed, £48,976 .. .. 1,069
Reserves.
1932.. 2,223 Nil, 2,223 1,154
This is the co. which manufactures Peters’
ice-cream in Brisbane. The factory began
earning in November, 1928; presently two
opposition concerns were bought for £20,000-
odd, another factory was built at Rockhamp-
ton, and the co.’s rights in N.Q. were sold for
£5OOO in scrip. This amount was struck
off the £28,000 originally paid for goodwill,
reducing intangibles to their present figure
(£23,000).
A coupje of 10 p.c. divs. were paid, fol-
lowed by one of 5 p.c. Then slump cut
into takings—ice-cream is a luxury easily
dispensed with in hard times —and share-
holders have not had a bite for the last two
years. For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts the profit claimed was 1.2 p.c.
on capital as against 3.3, 10.6 and 14.8 p.c.
for the three preceding years. That was
after £12,099 had dropped from somewhere
into reserves. The depreciation reserve
is now shown separately for the first
time at £48,457, equal to 48.2 p.c. of
the book value of plant at .Tune 30.
On the basis of figures at that date,
and allowing for depreciation at the
rate of 2 p.c. on freehold and 5 p.c. on plant,
the profit would have been 4 p.c. on capital
There are 212,586 £1 shares, of which 82.586
are fully paid and the balance paid to 15s.
The market prices the contribs. at 11s. 9d.,
ai which figure the return would be 5.1 p.c.
on a 4 p.c. div. basis.
The year’s allowance for depreciation, etc.,
was used to lighten the debt, which was re-'
duced by £14,399: —
1929. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £110,836 £179,184 £180,086 £180,086
Liabilities .. 33,829 38,103 32,122 17,723
Freeholds . . 63,689 95,560 101,928 101.928
Plant, etc. . . 63,647 103,812 101,123 100,478
Investments .. 25,289 33,431 35,848
Stock . . 3,147 8,595 5,217 4,262
Book debts . . 5,484 13,447 5,946 4,765
Cash, etc. .. 467 325 370 658
Thus the more or less liquid surplus
(£27,810, including investments and stock)
was £14,968 stronger than at the close of
accounts in 3931. Freehold and plant appear
at cost. What their earning capacity will
be in the future it is difficult to say; the
more or less luxury trades do not promise
to be among the earliest to recover.
Australasian Catholic Assurance (Sydney)
Ex-
June, Income. Claims, penses. Surplus. Funds.*
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. Assurance funds, £13,138
Less Goodwill, 2,500 .. 10,63 S
1926.. 50,253 1524 28,963 19,766 30,404
1927.. 64,430 1739 33,764 28,927 59,331
1928.. 84,900 3333 42,308 39,259 98,59 G
1929.. 114,290 4582 56,959 52,749 151,339
1930.. 140,411 6179 60,200 74,032 225,373
Added establishment account, £522.. 224,849
1931.. 152,956 9867 60,373 82,716 307,565
Accumulated pref. divs. (7 p.c.) and
5 p.c. on ords. paid, £4695 .. 302,870
1932.. 152,153 21,357 56,424 73,356 t 376,226
*Net funds apart from capital.
tAfter paying 7 p.c. (£1016) on prefs. and ords.
The actuary’s second quinquennial overhaul
showed a surplus of £23,474 at June 30,
1931, and bonuses on whole-life policies
ranging from 21s. p.c. in the Industrial to
30s. p.c. in the Ordinary department were
declared. In addition, pref. div. accumula-
tions were wiped out, the ords. were
handed 5 p.c. for the year, and £9158 was
carried to bonus reserve. It is a very
creditable performance for an 11-year-old,
87 p.c. of whose assurances at June, 1931,
were in the Industrial department.
Chief source of profit has been in-
terest from first-mortgage investments;
though returns from these have been re-
duced by 22-J p.c., they appear to be giving
the co/little trouble otherwise. Govern-
ment stocks, bought well below par in many
cases, now’ figure more prominently. Thus
interest earnings (£20,237) improved only
£1132 last year; still they were equal
to £5 18s. Bd. p.c. on mean funds,
compared with £6 165., £6 13s. sd. and £6
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page IQ. )


.11
in
i
i>']
m
m
m
m>-
Jh*
SfitlHHl
k
w
9m
KfttlEß.
]4KPr
HHH
S§»l
m
w
iKBP*
Standard High'Grade
MOTOR TYRE
è
CATERPILLAR
TRACTION
TREAD
ARMOURED
WALL
HOW to minimise that main cause
of tyre destruction —the terrific
heat generated by road* friction —is a
problem at last mastered in the new
design Barnet Glass Tyre. . . . Heat is
reduced by a new scientific balance be-
tween the stretch of rubber and cords
... . Heat is dissipated by the fan-blade
action of the buttressed side walls.
These stout buttresses also provide an
effective armour for the casing, pro-
tecting it against curb cutting and
abrasion and preventing distortion
. . . . The new Caterpillar Traction
Tread maintains positive road grip
at all angles, ensures direct driving
without slip and perfect control when
accelerating or braking
Barnet Glass
Tyres
for Endurance
<(
M 12


Inventohs. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Colliron, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Oollison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
-•it * # :j:
AUSTRAL RLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
LARGE CAPITAL AVAILABLE.—I have London
Capital available for Proved Gold Properties, also
Capital to develop. Inspection made in any part of
Commonwealth. Reply with some details to
“London,” e/o Mercantile Exchange, 380 Collins-
street, Melbourne, Cl. — Advt.
* * * *
WALTER E. CAMERON, B.A. (Cantab.), late
Economic Mining Geologist F.M.S. Govt., formerly
Deputy Chief Geologist' Q. Govt. Advice and report?
on mining prospects. South British Building,
28 O’Connell Street, Sydney. Tel: B643l.— Advt.
é
'a surejriend
in uncertain times"
SOCIETY
«¥ss
mm
gw
SwS
wmm
m
m
A Policy for £3268 Now
By Saving £2O/16/- a Year
When he was a young man a certain solicitor took out an A.M.P.
policy for £lOOO. This meant a monthly saving of about 35/-, a matter
of £2O/10/- a year in premium. Time went on, and bonuses began to
accumulate. Soon they were equal to the sum assured, and then, as
the years rolled on, they became double the sum assured. This is how
the policy stood at the end of last year:— • .
Sum Assured .. .. .. .. .. £lOOO 0 0
Total Bonuses to 31st Dec., 1931 .. 2268 14 0
Total Sum now assured £3208 14 0
Total Premiums paid to 31st Dec., 1931.. £1289 12 0
Total Bonuses .. .. 2268 14 0
The Bonus additions are £979/2/- in excess of the total premiums paid,
and the sum assured is now considerably more than THREE TIMES
THE AMOUNT OF THE ORIGINAL POLICY.
Future premiums could be extinguished by appropriating £B4 of the
Bonuses, and a paid-up policy for £3184/14/- would then be continued
in force, without further payment, but PARTICIPATING IN FUTURE
BONUSES.
A Loan of £2456 is available on the policy, repayable at member’s
convenience.
As the Assured puts it:—
“Anyone seeing the figures in connection with my policy must
admit the wonderful advantages that are attached to a policy
in the A.M.P. Society.”
Where is the man in work who couldn’t start to-day to build up such
a policy for himself?
Write to the nearest A.M.P. office for advice as to costs. Mention your
age and full particulars will be sent.
Australian Mutual Provident
Society
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
F. F. McBRYDE,
Assistant General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
'
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
District Offices in All States.
6s. 9d. p.c. in the three preceding years.
Heavier lapses and less new business were
the general experience last term, and the
Catholic’s premium income (£131,916) was
£1936 lighter. A crop of ten-year endow-
ments matured, and surrenders (£5475)
were £562S heavier; thus claims (£21,357)
increased £11,490. A pleasing feature
was a cut of £3949 in expenses (£56,424.
including taxation) ; they ran off with
42.7 p.c. of the year’s net premiums,
compared with 45.1, 47.4 and 54 p.c. in the
three preceding years. Excluding taxes,
the expense rate was a shade under 40 p.c.
After handing all shareholders 7 p.c., the
year’s surplus was £73,356. Bonuses were
allotted to policy-holders at the previous
year’s rates.
With managing-director E. J. Mooney
at the helm the co. kicked off with a capi-
tal of only £14,610 in 1921. At last balance
it had £390,836 of funds under its control,
which were invested as follows: —
1927. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Capital .. .. £14,610 £14,610 £14,610 £14,610
Liabilities* .. 072 4,935 3,482 3,344
Mortgages . . 43,138 207,775 237,258 246,903
Govt, securities .. 25,758 26,716 69,597 118,925
Cash, etc. . . 1,320 1,327 1,442 4,180
Debtors .. . . 466 1,788 1,890 953
Loans on policies.. 154 3,251 8,490 13,065
Equipment . . 2,727 4,696 4,267 4,897
Shares in other cos. 1,050 1,682 1,833 3,000
Freeholds .. 880 3,273
*Other than under policies.
Mortgages, which are all on city or subur-
ban property, represent 62.5 p.c. of the
assets, as against 82.1 p.c. two years ago.
On the other hand, Government securities
amount to 30.1 p.c. as against 10.6 p.c.
Loans on policies (£13,065) are up £4575
compared with the previous year. Shares
in the Invincible Fire and General Insur-
ance Co., an offshoot doing business with
the public as well as reinsuring its asso-
ciate’s risks, appear at £3OOO (up £1167
during the term).
Details of new business, etc., are not dis-
closed, but the co.’s prospects are encour-
aging. Though they had a 10-year wait,
ordinary shareholders, who were entitled
(with the profs.) under the original articles
of association to 20 p.c. of the profits, have
unanimously agreed to reduce their whack
to 10 p.c., policy-holders now participating
up to 90 p.c. That, of course, should mean
better bonuses; and shareholders may not
lose much in the long run.
A feature of the metal market has been
the rise in the spot price of tin from an
average of £ll4 12s. lid. per ton in June
to £142 2s. 4d. in August. On September 7
the figure reached £157 13s. 9d.; it was
£l5l 15s. nine days later. Statistically, the
position of the metal has improved, as the
following figures show;—
June. July. August.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
Visible world supplies at end
of month . . .. . . 48,945 48,575 46,551
Supplies received during month 5,219 4,437 3,552
Carry over of tin in Straits
Settlements .. .. .. 9,253 11,235 10,215
Whether the improvement has been due
wholly to purchases to cover actual indus-
trial contracts can, of course, only be guessed
at. Last week’s fluctuation in the price and
the inclination for the difference between
spot and forward quotes to come more into
fine with carrying charges suggest that
some of the buying may have been specula-
tive. Hopes are that a revival of business
activity in the TJ.S.A. will strengthen de-
mand for the metal, and further stiffen the
price. Before the slump the U.S.A. annm
ally imported between 70,000 and 90,000
tons of tin. The automobile industry, now
working at less than one-third capacity,
absorbed about 30 p.c. of those imports, and
the canning industry most of the balance.
The market outlook for the metal, however,
remains uncertain; the British, Dutch,
Siamese and Bolivian Governments have
restricted the output of cos. operating in the
territories under their control to about 25
p.c. capacity.
❖ *
According to expert opinion, Broken Hill
has passed its zenith. Since discovery m
1.883, ore production totals 44,000,000 tons,
valued at £157,000,000, from mines along a
lode three miles long and anything up to'
500 ft. wide. Another 16,000,000 tons is con-
fidently expected, or about 20 years’ life;
it is largely a question of cost and metal
prices. Of the Big Three left South
is expected to be the first to peter out;
its ore-bodies are reasonably well defined.
In the North and Zinc Corp. there are good
chances of finding additional ore. Metal-
lurgieally, the B.H. mines have reached a
high plane, recoveries being 94 p.c. lead,
90 p.c. silver and 84 p.c. zinc. The mines
employed over 10,000 men in 1913; about
3200 is the figure given for the future, which
indicates a population at the Hill of some
14,000 people.
* * ❖ *
Bulolo Gold’s second dredge is expected to
start up before the end of October, and is
to treat 210,000 c. yds. monthly. The third
dredge, to be placed on the Bulowat area,
is being built by Poole and Steel,. Sydney,
and the first shipment to New Guinea will
take place at the end of September. Pro-
duction figures for the last three periods of
approximately four weeks each compare as
follows: —
July 18. Aug. 15. Sept. 9.
Cubic yards .. .. 198,600 219,000 195,100
Gold, oz 4,663 5,211 3,592
Value—
Gold basis .. .. £12,952 £14,475 £9,965
Per cubic yard .. 1/3.65 1/3.87 1/0.26
Aust. currency.. .. £22,165 £25,396 £17,500
Per cubic yard .. 2/2.78 2/3.82 1/9.53
Costs, put at 74d. (gold) in the prospectus,
are not broadcast. However, it is now
claimed that owing to low costs the dredge
has been able to profitably treat ground out-
side the limits originally placed on the dig-
ging area. During the period to Sept.
9 operations were delayed for 41 hours,
owing to stoppage of the power plant.
* * * *
“Old Warden”: The latest mining craze
is to hunt for legendary gold deposits in
Centralia and Westralia. Like the Irish
legend of the Happy Isles, which were
seen but never really discovered, some of
these shows have passed in and out of the
ken of lonely prospectors a hundred times
over. Expeditions have been following each
other with such rapidity that it is hard to
keep track of them. Chapman and J. T.
Beckett, the latter with a foothold at
Tanami already, set out from Brisbane some
weeks ago. R. N. W. Bligh left Too-
woomba (Q.) a while back to investigate
a lonely prospect, which he was compelled
to abandon m 1897, some 150 miles from
Marble Bar. On arrival he found that
another party had pegged on the spot; so
he moved on to one more long-forgotten
Eldorado, where he has 'now set in. Another
party left Townsville (Q.) last week to
test a reef somewhere near the Westralian
border. The leader is one Schultze, whose
brother, now deceased, prospected the pro-
perty. More than a dozen people have
said they have discovered “Lasseter’s Lost
Reef,” and companies are being formed in
Sydney and Melbourne to dig out the gold
in shovelfula But the only stone which
has thus far reached civilisation was that
brought, by Paddy Whelan to Perth, where
companies are also being formed, and writs
and injunctions are filling the air like leaves
on a windy day. Nevertheless, oblivious of
what happened in New Guinea and Papua
a few years ago, many investors are plung-
ing in off the deep end.
* * * *
“Brilliant Deeps”: Some of these new
goldfields which have lately been discovered
near names that have a reminiscent ring.
One is The Granites, in Centralia, where
vast wealth is supposed to have been dis-
covered. Tine Granites is less than 100
miles s.w. from Tanami, and for close on
40 years both names have been familiar as
prospecting ground. Wandering diggers
from Tanami and elsewhere have tried the
ground and passed on; and though gold was
reported by many,. it did not seem to be
in definite quantities. However, motor
traction should give the new men a better
chance of more thoroughly prospecting the
field.
-•!= * * *
Diamond-drilling at Charters Towers in
search of the old St. Patrick’s reef has
not yet disclosed any colors. Thus far
shareholders have cheerfully paid their calls,
but many are beginning to doubt whether
it will prove to be worth while. The drill,
therefore, may not continue much longer.
* * * *
At Targinnie (Q.) a syndicate is profit-
ably treating the old mill tailings. Thus far
261 tons have been put through three cyanid-
ing vats for a return of £l7O. On the Old
Scottish, in the same locality, a trial crush-
ing of good grade ore from an Bft. reef has
been taken out. The shaft is down to 90ft.
* * * *
The A 1 mine at Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.),
which has been taken over by a new Mel-
bourne company with a capital of £22,500,
has some very large ore bodies that in the
past have proved to be rather low-grade. The
ore can be extracted through an adit, w T itii
no charge for pumping, an important item in
the wet mines of this district. The mine is
equipped with a 10-liead mill and Wilfley
tables. The lodes occur in a diorite dyke.
•1* sfc ij:
Discussing the-position of the Lake. View
and Star, a well-known London stockbroking
firm figures that. by the end of 1932 the
co. should have something like £287,000 in
sterling, or enough to pay a Is. div. and
leave about £157,000 for plant, development
and income tax. A sterling profit of £1 or
more per ton is spoken of when the treat-
ment plant reaches its full capacity of 40,000
tons monthly early in 1933. A proportion of
the profits*has been and still is being used
to finance the purchase of new plant; but
outlay in this direction is now almost at
an end. The co.’s chief backer, the Con-
solidated Gold Fields group, is expected to
exercise its option over 100,000 shares this
year, thus providing the extra working capi-
tal that will be required, and clearing the
wmy for a resumption of divs.
* * * *
On the 700 ft. level of the North Kalgurli,
the west, crosscut put out by B. H. Prop,
from the north drive lias now reached 516 ft.
in greenstone country. Diamond-drilling is
to be undertaken from this point to enable
a more rapid search to be made.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What is a Starr-Bowhett "building society?
Workings, benefits, etc.? —2118.
It is a terminating building society in
which the rights of members to loans are
determined by ballot or sale. The usual pro-
cedure is that members pay a subscription
of 6d. per share per week for 15 years, or
in some cases until a loan is made. Mostly
members are also liable for a specified annual
charge, usually 2s. 6d. per share, to cover
working exes. A member is entitled to a
loan of £5O for each share held. When all
the members have received an advance the
process of winding up commences, the loans
being repayable by instalments .over 10 to
121 _ years without interest. The share
capital is returned as loan repayments
accumulate. The lifetime of a society often
reaches 28 yearn During the last six years
16 of these societies have been registered
in N. S. Wales, but most of them have failed
to secure a satisfactory membership, and
arc not likely, therefore,‘to function success-
fully. Others have been in existence for
many yaers.
(1) A public go. owns shares in a pty.
co.; both cos. have the same board of
directors. What, is the procedure in having
a representative at shareholders' meetings
of the pty. co.? (2) A pty. co. wants to
convert some of its ordinary shares into
preference shares; what is the procedure 9
—2184.
(1) A co. which is a member of another
co. may, by resolution of the directors,
authorise any of its officials, or any other
person, to act as its representative ‘at any
meeting of that other co. The person so
authorised is entitled to exercise the same
powers on behalf of the co. he represents
as if he were an individual shareholder of
the other co. (2) Much depends upon the
powers given by the articles. If the
ordinary shares are already issued, it may
be necessary to form a hew co. to take
over the business. The first step should be
for the board to consult the co.’s solicitors.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
CHS.: Neither the Mines Department in N. S.
Wales nor the “Wild Cat” has ever heard of an
authentic case whore any kind of mineral has been
located by the divining rod, .. .G.P.: (1) It is a
limited liability co.; you can, therefore, be sued
for calls up to the face value of the scrip. (2)
One of the best gold mining specs, on the market.
.Much, however, will depend upon what happens in
connection with the exchanges. See B. 31/8/’32,
page 16... .Toowoon: It is a gamble; if you cannot
afford to lose, keep out... . H.C.: The co.’s figures
don’t make the scrip attractive security. The fact
that the co. operates in Asia, and that the scrip is
not listed on London ’Change, will probably make
Australian banks shy. However, try R.R.L.: It
is a long-term speculation. See “‘Wild Cat'
Monthly,” August, 1932 H. J.G.: (1) Cannot, say
definitely; it is a domestic matter not disclosed to
the public. (2) Salaries are governed by Arbitration
Court awards; there has been no alteration in these.
By arrangement with the Bank Officers’ Association
outs ranging from 8-J p.e. to 10 p.c. have been made
in all cases. (3) All public holidays, including
fourth of August.... H.N.: The business was taken
over last year by Associated Dominions Assurance
Society, whose accounts were reviewed B. 21/10/’3l
and “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” November, 1931
1.R.M.: Will review in our next issue.... Sunbea m :
Making inquiries; will let you know result....
G.A.C.: Cannot say; no cutting enclosed... .C.A.H.:
(1) It is a forestry bond-selling organisation. The
bonds are long-term speculations. See “ ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,” August, 1932. (2), (3) and (4) No. (5)
Yes. (6) Failure to pay instalments when due
may result in forfeiture of amount already paid.
. ...S.W.C.: Any bank officer who detects a forged
note is obliged to mark it “valueless.” The person
who tendered the note to the bank has recourse
against the party who gave it to him, and so on
back to the person who originally uttered the
document, if he can be found. The case you
mention is the cheapest and most commonsense
■way out of the difficulty.


ê
Ten seconds
to strop.
Ten seconds
to clean.
The VALET
Razor Strop & Blade form
the PERFECT SHAVING
PARTNERSHIP
You know what stropping means to
a razor blade. Keener edge —longer
life —cooler, smoother shaves. Use
a Valet, which gives all the advant-
ages of stropping in a fraction of time
without removing the blade. Simple,
time-saving, efficient —that’s Valet!
British Made —Of all dealers.
Sets from 5/- to 65/-
ë
“VALET”
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEW
WALLPAPERS
TO GREET THE SPRING
Wallpapers provide an infinite variety of texture,
design and coloring to suit all temperaments, simple
or complex. New designs just to hand include
Tapestries
Plastic Effects in Metallic
Spanish Morene —Futuristic
Rich Friezes—Cut Out Sprays, Etc.
They enrich walls and make the most simply-furnished
rooms complete. Call in and see them at money-
saving prices, in our showrooms—Sydney or
Melbourne. You can order by post.
Use “STIX” paste to hang wallpapers.
V
mmsm
HETXZ
324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, j
MELBOURNE.
L
Jk
I
3 is
-J
.'v* A*
?ra
Jfe*.
I VJfe
■
3 %
■v
Shop by post.
Samples posted
anywhere. Mention
rooms papers are
required for.
RECONDITIONED MACHINERY
The largest stock of second-hand reconditioned machinery in the Commonwealth to select from. All machinery supplied from
stock is thoroughly overhauled in our workshops under strict supervision and machines are guaranteed in good running order.
Our fifty years’ experience in handling all classes of second-hand machinery enables us to give the highest satisfaction to our clients.
SOME OF THE SPECIAL PLANT WE HANDLE
INDUSTRIAL
BOILERS
Multitubular, Return Tube, .Tackass,
Cornish Flue, Babcock, Vertical,
Colonial Type., etc. Working pres-
sure up to 1601 b.
ECONOMISERS
Green’s plants, with 120 and, 160
tube units, up to 680 tube equip-
ment.
FEED PUMPS
Duple x—Single-acting. Wei r.
Nicholls, all makes and sizes. Tested
under working conditions.
STEAM ENGINES
Vertical, Horizontal, single-cylinder
and compound, all sizes up to f>oo
B.H.P
CRUDE-OIL ENGINES
10. 30, 50, 85 and 125 H.P. Various
makes. Some almost new.
SUCTION-GAS PLANTS
Engines 38, 42 and 62 H.P., with
producer plants, also Charcoal and
Wood producers up to 165 H.P.
HYDRO EXTRACTORS
30in. and 60in. baskets by Broad-
bent, steam and belt, driven.
PAINT GRINDING
Edge Runner 6ft. pan (new),
Chilian Mill 6ft. pan. Large Grinder
and Mixer, and sundry small equip-
ment.
LOCOMOTIVES
Steam Driven, 2ft. and 3ft. gauge,
suitable for Sugar Plantations,
Sawmills and Contractors.
BELT CONVEYOR
18in. wide, about 120 ft. centres,
complete plant hardly used. Also
large quantity of spare idlers.
ELECTRIC PLANT
Motors —direct and alternating
current, up to 100 H.P.
Generators—2o k.w., 230 volt, 15
and 40 k.w., 500 volt. Direct Coupled
Sets, 120 to 400 k.w. Direct and
Alternating Current.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING PLANTS
2 and 3 k.w. steam-driven sets and
4 k.w. oil-driven set, also large range
* belt-driven machines, and several
battery storage plants.
TRANSMISSION GEAR
Shafting, bearings, pulleys—over
2000 available, also belting, all sizes.
AGRICULTURAL
PUMPS
Centrifugal—all sizes from lin. to
lain.
Steam-driven for high lift irriga-
tion plants.
Three throw plungers, Sin. to siu.
diameter.
STEAM ENGINES
Portable 7 to 16 nora. H.P.. 1001 b.
W.P. by all leading English makers.
MINING
STEAM WINCHES
All sizes from (Hn. to 12in. cylinders,
together with winding gears.
CRUSHING PLANTS
Batteries one up to ten head with
shanks from 600 to 1200 pounds.
Also new batteries one, two or three
head, 250- to 500-pound shanks.
GRINDING MILLS
Huntington sft. pans, and Tube
Mills up to sft. diameter.
CONCENTRATING TABLES
Wilfley, Card, Phoenix Weir, also
small size prospecting tables.
AIR COMPRESSORS
Steam- and belt-driven plants from
6in. up to 18in. cylinders, various
makes, together with suitable re-
ceivers.
SLUICING PLANTS
Nozzles—new and second-hand from
4in. up to 15in., together with suit-
able piping various sizes to 26in.
diameter.
DREDGES
2 Bucket Dredges with buckets sft.
and 61ft. capacity.
PUMPING EQUIPMENT
Steam Sinking Pumps, pumping
gears. Cornish lifts and direct
coupled petrol-driven sets for pros-
pecting shafts.
ENGINEERING
LATHES
sin. and 12in. centres, also several
high-class turret lathes, almost new.
DRILLING MACHINES
Radial Arm sft., also large range
of all types and sizes for general
workshop and girder drilling.
SHAPERS
12in. and 14in. “Selson,” almost new.
PLANER
3ft. x Ift. Gin. x Ift. Gin.
GRINDERS
Disc Grinders, various sizes, also
Emery Heads, Hacksaws, and
general workshop equipment.
WOODWORKING
MOULDING AND MATCHING
MACHINES
12in. x Gin.. IGin. x Tin. All leading
English makes.
MOULDING & PLANING MACHINE
pin. x 4in., by Fay and Egan.
THICKNESSERS
20in. x Giin., 24in. x Sin., ball-
hearing. Dike new.
BUZZERS , „,
12m., 14in. and IGin., ball-bearing.
In excellent condition.
SAW BENCHES
Take 18in., 24in.. 28m. and 30m.
saws. R. and F. tables.
SPECIAL LINES.
“Deutz” crude oil engine, 50-55 H.P.. less than six months’ nse.
25,000 feet din. screwed and socketed piping, in good second-hand condition.
The above only sets out a small proportion of the immense stocks we carry of all classes of second-hand reconditioned
machinery. If you are requiring machinery of any type, send us your inquiries.
FOR FURTHER DETAILS,
MILLER & CO. (MACHINERY) PTY. LTD
ESTABLISHED
OVER 50 YEARS.
V'
27 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
BRANCH ADDRESS:
10 Forest Street, Bendigo, Victoria.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal (com. Sat.) “Captain Brassbound’s Conversion”
Her Majesty’s “Bitter Sweet”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royali Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
King’s “Autumn Crocus”
State Movies and Talkies
♦ .
The Truth About the U.S.S.R.
General impression of a lady’s account of
a visit to Russia, given at Melbourne Trades
Hall: —-
I have just returned from a visit to 9ur
glorious Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
I was taken there secretly by one of the
gigantic six-engined ’planes maintained by
the Cheka for the convenience of class-con-
members of the Australian proletariat
who wish to know the truth about Russia.
It is not generally known that these
machines leave twice weekly from a secret
depot in the Australian Alps. The voyage
would have been uninteresting, taking me,
as it did, over countries groaning under
Imperialist oppression had I not been liber-
ally supplied by the captain of the ’plane with
statistics showing the enormous progress
made under the Five-year Plan. He was
a Russian and a Communist, and therefore
unfailing in his tact, charming in his pro-
letarian courtesy and profound in his sym-
pathy for his passengers, so unlike the Im-
perialist commanders of the ocean liners
which convey the goods torn from the toil-
ing masses of Australia to havens of idleness
in other parts of the world. With typical
proletarian efficiency the ’plane arrived at
its destination five minutes ahead of the
scheduled time, and the shooting party which
was waiting to punish the captain had he
shown any dereliction of Soviet discipline
was dismissed.
I found myself, comrades, in Baku.
What a contrast to the Imperialist countries
over which I had just passed! All around
me great smokestacks were belching clouds
of smoke into the sky. I counted the smoke-
stacks. There were 933 of them, and I was
told that no fewer than 1435 new ones
were being built, and that by 1943 there
would be 30,000, this being the figure laid
down as being required by Ginko, Commis-
sar for Smokestacks. It was six in the
morning. The streets were full of prole-
tarians hurrying to . their work. Why did
they hurry? Because they feared that if
they arrived late they would be dismissed,
as would be the case in a capitalist econ-
omy? Not at all! They were hurrying
because they had the ultimate success of the
ninth Five-year Plan at heart. What smil-
ing faces! How they laughed! How
merrily they sang the words of the Inter-
nationale !
Arise, ye workers from your slumbers! Arise, ye
prisoners of want!
For Reason in revolt now thunders and at last ends
the age of Cant!
Now away with all superstition, servile masses, arise,
arise!
We’ll change forthwith the old conditions and spurn
the -dust to win the prize!
Even the sky smiled, where it could be
seen.
Fourteen guides appointed to assist me in
discovering the truth about Russia greeted
me with that frankness and naturalness so
typical of the Russian official since he has
been liberated from the grinding tyranny
of the Czars. How merrily they laughed
when I told them that in Australia people
actually believed that the Soviet Union had
a great deal it wished to hide! I could,
they assured me, go wherever I liked, but
they would accompany me, because they liked
my face. Merely for my convenience they
offered-me a schedule for the first day. It
included visits to the Bodoks, or boiling-
down works, the greatest boiling-down works
in the world, and run, comrades, not by.
a capitalist exploiter for private profit, but
in the interests of the 160 million prole-
tarians of the U.S.S.R.; the Mucintor, or
municipal incinerator; the Sewarm, or
Sewage Farm - (established by Caskowhisky
himself) ; • the - Gawoks, or Gasworks ; the
Acfer, or Aqademy for the Scientific Study of
Fertilisers'; and the 100 blast furnaces which
have made the Soviet Union the second
largest pig-iron producer in the world.
Let me tell you about one of these blast
furnaces, though, of course I visited them
all. Its inside capacity is 1180 cubic metres.
Working according to the schedule fixed by
Klamski, Commissar for - Blast . Furnaces,
its first yield was 40 tons —-good according
to capitalist standards, but not half good
enough';for the U.S.S.R. After four managers
had been shot for sabotage and seven sub-
managers sent to Siberia, its capacity in-
creased to. 70 tons in the short space of 57
days. Klamski expects its daily capacity
to eventually reach the colossal figure of
2500 tons, its class-conscious workers hav-
ing voluntarily agreed to work two shifts of
12 hours a day.
What surprised me most was the disci-
pline and order which prevailed in all
branches of the factory. The foreman,
Comrade Suchachum, was a startling con-
trast to the running-dogs of the capitalist
exploiters. Every morning he reads the
official newspaper “Pravda” to’ his fellow-
workers, describing what happens to workers
who interfere with the progress of the Five-
year Plan in other, parts of the U.S.S.R. Then
after scanning the casualty lists for names
of foremen who have failed the Soviet Union
in other works, he gives the comrades a
friendly pat on the back and sends them off
to their various tasks, which they perform
to the accompaniment of loud-speakers giv-
ing statistics of production in other units
of the industry, followed by luscious chapters
from Karl Marx. With smiling faces they
bend over their jobs, determined that their
furnace will be the most productive furnace
in the U.S.S.R.
But do not imagine for a moment, com-
rades, that the spiritual welfare of the
workers is neglected by the People’s Com-
missars. Wherever I .went —in Moscow,
Irkutsk and. the new industrial centres such
as Magnetigorsk, Seieutifiskaya, Electro-
polis, Motorcarski and Machinerigrad—l
found concert halls, cinemas, libraries, opera
houses, workers’ clubs, prolecult art theatres
and other cultural activities established in
the gorgeous marble palaces of the Czars
and the luxurious mansions of the expropri-
ated bourgeoisie. Here, where an effete
aristocracy formerly amused themselves with
the class art of Beethoven and Shakspeare,
the artists maintained by Flimpu, Commis-
sar for Proletarian Uplift, perform dramas
depicting, for example, the enormous im-
provement in output produced by better
organisation and mechanisation in the Soviet
timber industry, which in 1913 operated
only 125 frame-saws, but which in 1932
employed no fewer than 143, all working 21
hours a day.
I was taken to one of the 93,456 schools
with which Jampan, Commissar for Prole-
tarian Culture, is fighting the legacy of
obscurantism and illiteracy left by the
Czars. With glistening faces the children
of the. farmers in the district were eagerly
repeating after their teacher the words of
a report on the latest survey of the Com-
missariat of Agriculture, indicating, in un-
impeachable arithmetic, that 82,000,437
hectares of wheat had been sown through-
out the U.S.S.R., this being 102.8 per cent, of
the figure demanded by Pushka, Commissar
for Sowing Wheat.
. Visiting a court of justice housed in a
picture gallery formerly belonging to the
Romanoffs, I found a bench of button
workers, assisted by a jury of button
workers, trying a button worker, a fair-
haired, grey-eyed youth, charged with action
derogatory to the success of the Five-year
Plan. The Plan provides for a daily pro-
duction of 23,000,000 buttons, all of the
same size and shape. My guide explained
to me that the button workers were at first
so bad that they were liable to be
executed for poor work. But they wanted to
make those buttons, and so they learnt.
They stayed on the job. The girls organ-
ised a brigade to feed them, and they slept
where they worked. But Poushkin—that
was the name of the young criminal —was
“MEDEA,” AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
(Top to bottom, left to right) : Lewis Casson as Jason, who will stand no nonsense;
Dame Thorndike as Medea, in a 'particularly nasty mood; the kids, a bit dazed
by mamma’s asperity; Michael Martin-Harvey pretends to be a lady of Corinth;
Christopher Casson, as the Messenger, arrives to tell a blood-curdling yarn.
habitually found dreaming at his job, and,
when questioned, said he was engaged in
composing a poem. Portion of the poem
was read in court, and there was loud
laughter when it was discovered to refer
to birds, flowers, love and similar bour-
geois absurdities. The verdict —six years
in the timber camps of Archangel—was re-
ceived with prolonged applause. That, com-
rades, will show you the spirit animating
the liberated proletariat of the U.S.S.R.
But the greatest experience of my trip,
comrades, was my interview with Stalin —
Comrade Stalin to every one of the toiling
millions of the U.S.S.R. Simple in his habits,
he lives in the Kremlin in a bombproof roonp
which is hermetically sealed. He sleeps in
pyjamas of chain mail under blankets of
boiler plate, and a blacksmith assists him
to dress in a special suit of chilled iron, witli
a shirt of rustless steel and waistcoat of
hardened bronze. His breakfast, of hard-
boiled eggs, is served by telephone. These
precautions are necessary because of the
large numbers of bourgeois plotters in the
country masquerading as Communists. My
interview was short, as he was engaged in
drawing up the schedule for the Eleventh
Five-year Plan.
*£•
The shade of Euripides, witnessing the
performance of his tragedy “Medea” at Syd-
ney Royal on Saturday night, would pro-
bably have experienced some very mixed
emotions. Being an artist, and a Greek, he
would have been shocked at the abandon
with which his characters expressed their
emotions. Being a just and logical man,
he would also have realised that this was
precisely what lie let the world in for when
he sought to vitalise the Dionysian ritual-
plays. And had he sensed the private com-
ments of the more irreverent members of the
audience he would have found himself just
as much' misunderstood as he was by Bright
Young Things of .Athens, 2360 years ago.
“Medea” is a domestic tragedy, and with
the elements of domestic tragedy the Gr >k
author had first-hand acquaintance. He
failed to see anything comic about the un-
faithfulness of a spouse and he derived, it
may be guessed, a vast amount of satisfac-
tion in delineating the complete and awful
vengeance which the exiled daughter of
Aietes wreaked upon her husband. As a
poet and a Greek he found a terrible beauty
in the old legend, but instead of presenting
it in cold, clear essence, he fell to the temp-
tation of psycho-analysing the characters,
which made the thing useless as a religious
exercise, threw into strong relief its utterly
unethical basis, and, worst of all, failed to
make the imported human element wholly
natural or convincing. It was a godsend to
the contemporary Athenian critics, and they
have left nothing cattish that could be said
about it unsaid. But with all its imperfec-
tions “Medea” lives, and great actresses in
lands that were barbarian when it was
written find in it a vehicle for their highest
powers.
Sybil Thorndike’s Medea makes as strong
play as is possible with the pathetic ele-
ments of her case. She has cut herself off
from homeland and family to> follow Jason,
and Jason is faithless. She is impelled by
her jealous hate of Jason to murder her
own children^ —and she loves those children.
Not Euripides, nor Gilbert Murray, who
has done the tragedy into English verse- of
striking beauty, nor Sybil Thorndike can
compass or explain in all entirety the mental
processes by which Medea moves to her
vengeance. We are not encouraged to pity
her as a puppet of relentless destiny. It
is in- gloating exultation that she leaves the
home of Jason, borne off by the Sun God
to safe refuge in Athens. All that can be
said of Dame Thorndike’s Medea is that it
leaves an ineradicable impression of con-
centrated fury—fury held so well in leash,
though, that it can dissemble and plot most
cunningly.
The character of Jason stands on much
less curious ground than that of Medea, and
Lewis Casson makes of it an epitome of
bluff commonsense. Among subsidiary rdles
that of the Messenger, played by Christopher
Casson, stands out as a striking piece of
declamation. The inclusion of Michael
Martin-Ilarvey among the women of the
chorus is a touch that) savors of the
grotesque, possibly because he is so strongly
associated in the minds of most onlookers
with the comedy role of the Dauphin in
“St. Joan.”
In the Sydney Players’ Club’s production
of “You Never Can Tell” at St. James’s Hall
on Saturday Kenneth Fowles, as the stony-
broke dentist who hides his old-world senti-
mentality beneath a flow of freetliought
talk, was suitably happy-go-lucky and
spirited. Myrna Dickey was charming and
natural —almost too appealingly feminine
for a Shavian female character—as the in-
quisitive Dolly Clandon. Nancy Gardner
contributed a fine study of the mentally-
tortured Gloria Clandon, who had more
brain than heart. Beatrice Wines managed
the part of Mrs. Clandon well, and other
l-oles were in safe hands. Alice Gould was
the producer.
# * *
Sydney New Rep.’s latest, “Cold Steel,”
presents a picture of a companionate mar-
riage which comes more or less to grief. The
players are well cast. Keith Cribb and
Daphne Winslow are a shade better than
the rest.
# # *
“Tosca,” final addition to the opera reper-
toire at Melbourne Royal, was made the
occasion for putting most of the principal
portfolios in Australian hands, and the per-
ormance left no doubt as to the future of
Australian opera provided a law is passed
proinbitmg every tenor, soprano and bari-
tone of proved and potential ability from
leaving the country as soon as they have real-
ised their powers. Not that the performance
was faultless, but it was remarkably good,
i-he enthusiasm for the music in the first
act was less. a tribute to the conducting of
Bernard Heinze than to the patriotism of
.®. vast audience. At first the professor
with the Grecian profile showed strong oppo-
sition to the legitimate desire of John
-Brownlee Scarpia to make himself audible
to the occupants of the back stalls, but for
the remainder of the evening the Geelong bari-
tone had liis fellow-countryman on his side,
lhe music swept nobly through the tempes-
™r ,t L s drama of the second act, and in the
third . spread tenderly over the emotional
beauties of the “E Lucevan le Stelle” aria,
sung better .by Pedro Mirassou Cavara-
dossi than his performances earlier in the
piece led one to expect. Brownlee’s Scarpia
was all his own, less of the stage villain of
tradition and more the urbane but ruthless
man of the world, with a sense of responsi-
bility complicated by. a roving eye for a
pretty face. His demise was an impressive
piece of . work. After Molly de Gunst Tosca
had buried the carving-knife in his traitor-
ous breast his symphony of hate took him
lmlf across the stage clutching at the lady’s
skirt, and the final movement, a calculated
spin that brought him back to the footlights,
ended in an artistically perfect corpse; The
leading woman is in her early twenties, and
this is her first season of opera. Taking
these things into consideration, the emo-
tional heights she reached in the shooting-
party scene outweighed her failure to make
Tosca the proud and self-confident beauty
she is supposed to be in the first act. Roy
Glasheen, Rowell Bryden and Evelyn Hall
were other local products who gave unob-
trusive support. Michele Fiore’s Sacristan
was broadly comical.
* * *
Two Australians dominated the perform-
ance of “Aida” at Melbourne Royal last
week. John Brownlee gave another demon-
stration of restrained and thoughtful acting
and artistic singing as the Ethiopian King,
and Molly de Gunst rendered admirable
support as an exiled daughter whose patrio-
tic sentiments were magnificently expressed
in the upper but with less effect in the
lower register. The dialogue between the
pair on the banks of the Nile in the third
act was as fine an all-round achievement
as the season has produced.
H- * #
The. news has got round Melbourne that
S.zigeti is a violinist of some eminence, and
his concerts last week attracted the biggest
audiences that a solo performer has yet
drawn to the civic hall. His playing of the
Kreutzer Sonata left a deep impression on
Thursday’s house, though it didn’t do what
Tolstoy did when he heard it —rush out into
the street because the sounds were too beau-
tiful to bear. The Beethoven piece was
distinguished by bowing so delicate in places
that the listener was apt to be seized with
terror lest no sound should come at all.
Lightness and delicacy are Szigeti’s strong
points, though he can simulate a whole
orchestra when occasion requires. Bach’s
Concerto in D minor came as a stranger
to most of the audience, since it was being
played for the first time in Melbourne, but
before the lovely adagio was half through
it had a roomful of friends. There will be
further recitals on Thursday and Saturday.
* * *
Szegiti drew a masterly bow through the
Prokofieff concerto, the biggest modern work
Melbourne has yet listened to. There could
be no two opinions about the executive skill
displayed. The mere memorising of the
collection of broken rhythms and seemingly
disjointed remarks was a dazzling display
of virtuosity, as difficult for a violinist as
for an elocutionist to memorise a chapter of
Joyce’s “Ulysses,” where the reveries of
half a dozen characters wander over all
experience, sensation and history. As to
the quality of the work as music there is
certain to be argument. To some listeners
it sounded, not like music, but like noises
of the farmyard, with reminiscences of a
day at the Agricultural Show. But Manet’s
painting did not look like pictures at all
to most of the people who first looked at
it, though now it is seen to have been the
nearest to reality of any painting of the
time.
* * H-
The .Bulletin renewed acquaintance last
week with its old friend, the Melbourne Show,
which is at the old address. A record number
of entries of Clydesdales, Shorthorns, home-
made puddings and pots of jam suggested
that the country is shaking itself free of
Old Man Depression earlier than the city,
but a shortage of entries in the Human Giant
and Fat Woman divisions conveyed the oppo-
site impression. Possibly being on the dole
has had a reducing effect on the Fattest
Woman and shortened the height of the
Tallest Man. A novelty was a girl in the
snakepit tying knots in venomous vipers with
the nonchalance of an old hand, and going off
occasionally to take a drink of her own
special antidote, composed of Queensland
cactus juice and pot. permang. There was
the usual display of beef and brawn in the
ring, but mechanisation is in progress even
there and the voice of the judges is the
brazen voice of the radio amplifier. Outside
the process was in full blast. The dulcet
tones of the loud-speakers followed the visi-
tor round, advertising aeroplanes flew over-
head and Henty’s old plough (exhibited by
a machinery firm), which turned the first sod
in Victoria in 1834, looked as if it had been
dug up out of a kitchen midden of the Stone
Age.
The comparative rarity of performances
of “Ruddigore” brought a large house. to
its revival at Adelaide Royal. The acting
was unusually strong, Menzies introducing
a Napoleon touch, Cliff Cowley (a new-
comer) an Irving touch and Ralston a dual
personality as villain and wowser. Mary
Hotham was really powerful in the mad
scene. Even the chorus members showed in-
dividual talent in learning Darnton’s horn-
pipe. But the co. turned just as happily
next day to the prettiness of “Pinafore”
and Burnand’s puns in “Cox- and Box,”
-which should have been left in the museum.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
An Over-capitalised Industry
Dear B., —Primary production is undoubt-
edly of paramount importance to Australia,
but the individual producer—as such—is
not so important. Primary producers, real-
ising the importance of primary production
to the State, are trying to get exchange,
wages, services, etc., so adjusted as to give
them a return on inflated land and stock
values, which values are non-existent now.
I suggest that, the basis of value of a sheep-
area be placed at £3, and all wages costs,
awards, tariff, exchange, etc., so arranged
that a return of, say, 5 p.c. can be earned
<m capital value, in addition to rational run-
ning expenses. Anyone who owes £3 per
sheep-area has no equity, and where, the debt
Is greater the mortgagee must write off the
difference. Though to each individual his
serious financial straits are indeed a tragedy,
it cannot be helped, and he definitely must
give place to another who can carry on.
Land will grow crops and sheep will grow
wool no matter who is the owner, and it is
production and not producers that must, be
helped, unless, of course, the producer owes
les.s than £3 per sheep-area.—Yours faith-
fully, Gbabbengullen.
Wool Prices and Exchange
Dear Bulletin, —Here are the returns
from a Queensland clip at, a sale in Bris-
bane :
Sale No. 9, May 23-25, 1932, average per
pound greasy .. .. ..." .. G.lld.
Sale No. 10, dune 20-23, 1932, average per
pound greasy . . .. . . . . G.23d.
Sale No. 11, June 27-28, 1932, average per
pound greasy . . . . . . . . G.35d.
Average over three sales, per pound . . 6.23 d.
Average price per pound i;i English
currency .. .. .. .. 4.98 d.
Average price per pound in American
currency .. .. .. .. 3.612 d.
A week after, the .same owners sold in
London C3S3 bales which averaged 8,39 d„
thus showing that the man who sold in Aus-
tralia did not get the benefit of the exchange
rate—2s p.c.
It appears from the foregoing that buyers
have taken advantage of the exchange to
depress the price paid by them in their own
currency. Evidence that this is operating
is disclosed in the case of wheat sold to
Japan, uncovered by Professor Melbourne in
his report on Australian trade intercourse
with China and Japan submitted to the
University of Queensland. “It is evident,”
says the Professor, “that at the beginning
of 1932 very little cheap wheat was avail-
able in the United States, and Japan was
forced to buy a considerable amount from
Canada at a price nearly 20 p.c. higher than
that paid to Australia. It is frequently
alleged that the maintenance of an artificial
rate of exchange between Australia and
London is necessary in order to reduce Aus-
tralian prices, and so to make it possible
to sell Australian products abroad. The
figures available suggest that the device is
actually resulting in, or, at any rate, con-
cealing, the sale of Australian products for
prices smaller than those which might be
obtained. Surely it cannot be necessary to
offer Australian wheat at prices 20 p.c.
under the prices of other countries in order
lo effect a sale !.... There is good reason to
believe that the price of wool has been de-
pressed by similar means.”
.The more the position is examined the
more, conclusive it appears that it. would be
better ’ for wool-producers if wool in Aus-
tralia were sold in sterling.—Yours, A. G. M.
Our Wool-selling System
Dear B., —-The Wool Commission, ham-
strung from the start, is powerless to probe
deep enough to find the maggot which is
making a most one-sided affair of our
methods of disposing of wool. We graziers
know we must accept prices the world can
afford to pay. But our auction sales, with
their lot-splitting and blacklisting, leave
the buyers with too many Jokers in their
stack of cards.
As an old grazier, with experience dat-
ing back into last century, I would like to
take a look into prospects. Our station rain-
fall from January to the end of August was
793 points—in a district with an average
of over 24 inches. Unless over 2in. falls
within the next month the drought has
arrived "in the north-west of N. S. Wales.
Graziers, having already used up their
credit resources in supplying the world with
wool produced at a loss, will find themselves
in a hopeless position. General overstock-
ing has taken place in an endeavor to
balance budgets. And now sheepmen find
themselves with surplus stock for which there
is no market. In 1919-20 I had sheep away
on agistment for over 12 months, and cut
scrub continuously for nine months for those
kept at home. Where would the money come
from to-day to pay for agistment and scrub-
cutting?—Yours, Cactohlastls.
Too Much Thrift
Dear Bulletin, —With a good hearty war
on hand everybody thinks it is his duty to
work hard, and there is so much to do. such
excellent, markets everywhere, bankers make
no bones about credit. Can’t we inaugurate
a crusade against something? Something
we could all become enthusiastic about? Why
not, regard our unemployed as a non-com-
batant army, and set about equipping them
to win for us some further amenities of life,
by each buying freely of the other fellow’s
handiwork, thus simulating war-time condi-
tions? Let’s not go individually into debt
about it, as we did over the mad hire-
purchase business, but just set about making
first-class buying markets everywhere, inci-
dentally inducing those unduly magnified
gentry, the bankers, to make advances to
honest industry once more. In short, let’s
admit that in these days of readily ’avail-
able insurance the old-time teaching of
thrift can he superseded, such is the plenty
our methods have given us.—l am etc’
Andrew Macansii.
The Exporter and Taxation
Dear B.,—The primary producer who pro-
duces exportable works to brins* motiev
into the country. This appears to me to be
the most important thing for Australia be-
borrowed money which has to
be paid back. If while bringing monev into
this country he makes a fortune what does
it. matter? Isn’t he doing-the best thing for
this country? When he brings money into
this country isn’t he enriching everyone in
a general way ? If this is so, why the hunt-
ing for his scalp, why the levelling of the
taxation and other guns so particularly
against him? Wouldn’t it be a good scheme
to help him to get money into this country,
as he is doing what no one else is appa-
rently capable of doing? Isn’t this what
we are after —to-increase our exports? Well,
this is the way. All income derived from
goods that are exported from Australia
should be made exempt from income tax,
State and Federal, and all land employed in
producing these goods should be exempt from
land tax. State and Federal. If this' were
done, wouldn’t people be straining their
necks to produce something that could be
exported? Wouldn’t those who are now
producing exportable goods redouble their
efforts to produce more? And wouldn’t they
use their “saved” taxes to try to produce
more? Wouldn’t their “saved” taxes be
cheapening the cost of production for export?
No one would get off scot-free from income
tax or land tax, as I don’t suppose there
is a single industry which exports every
ounce of its produce, and in any industry
the percentage of the country’s production
that is exported would fix the proportion
of each producer’s income from that source
that is to be exempt from taxation, and
similarly the proportion of his land that
would not be taxed. The drafting of a new
law to make some such arrangement surely
does not involve insuperable difficulties ; and
if a new income-tax form has to be evolved
or a new method of calculating land tax has
to be made, out —well, the present forms and
methods could hardly be more complicated,
could they?—Yours, lI.’P. M. (Vic.).
Road Dangers
Dear Bulletin, — "What with the new
Sydney regulations designed to reduce the
“danger” t;p motorists caused by jay-walking
and the Coroner’s verdict on the latest
bridge fatality, the unfortunate individual
who uses Shanks’s pony will have to be
wary. May we hope for some reci-
procity on the part 0 f the car-driver by (1)
pulling up behind the building line at inter-
sections, (2) stopping on the offside of a
halted tram as well as the near, (3) giving
its a chance generally?
In the bridge case, two policemen were
on duty on the roadway where pedestrians
should not be, and a motor-car ran into and
killed them. According t 0 report, the Coro-
ner said; “There is no evidence that Poison
drove in a manner dangerous to the public
or at a speed dangerous to the public.” The
fact that there ica» danger to the public is
proved by the death of two constables; no-
thing can alter that. If there was no
.danger, there would have been no fatality.
The. Coroner’s remark looks like bad law
and worse logic. Admittedly the driver was
entitled to expect a clear road as far as
pedestrians were concerned, but the verdict
can only mean that a motorist is not ex-
peeked to make any allowance for the un-
expected or unusual. It. was stated that
only every third light on the bridge was
switched on. If this resulted in visibility
being poor-, surely that only means that the
driver should have been even more careful
than usual. It is time we paid attention to
the man on foot.—Yours, C. 11. R.
.
. . „ . .. .
Australia Is Over-ofhcialled
Dear B.,—While we have so many boards
and inspectors hampering industry in every
way, it. is impossible to recover. I suppose
t here is no country where the people are
so handicapped with regulations and restrie-
tions. One factory in Sydney was visited
by six different inspectors within a few days
lately. A man who runs fowls was visited
by an inspector of the Egg Board. He told
the owner that eggs taken from the nest
to the kitchen for the use of the family ought
1° be stamped. Can anything be more child-
J s b ■ lam told eggs have never fetched such
Jow prices as they have since the board has
been in existence Yet our export trade, sup-
posed to be watched over as to packing and
grading, etc., is getting a bad name, and we
have to pay in two ways, loss of trade and
tho expense of inspection. I say, make a
clean sweep of these parasites ; they are
eating the vitals out of the country. Get
rid of the Arbitration Courts; they have
proved failures, and their supporters are
only satisfied when they get a decision in
their favor. Give freedom of contract and
thousands of men will get jobs, and as times
improve will earn more money. I hate low
wages, but our systeih is responsible for
them.—Yours, A. B.
"
T . . Th*dr P av
leacher ® and lheir l ay ,
Dear Bulletin-, As a teacher, one of the
public servants mentioned by ‘C.H.R. m
bis proposed live-.vear Plan to reduce public-
service numbers (B. 17/8/32), I would
agree -with him in regard to the necessity
J or sharing in all the national bad luck if
he would agree with me that teachers should
ahare in the ...good luck. When striking
wharf-laborers and coalminers during the
wa T years were having their wages raised,
I did not notice "0.1 LR.” writing to suggest
that, the teachers should have their wages
and conditions improved, although the cost
living soared, and in the end Vic. assist-
ant teachers, for their “patriotism” in not
making demands on the Government, were
getting less than the school caretaker, and
family men in country schools were trap-
pmg rabbits to eke out their salaries. Not:
until 1920 did the rise in teachers’ salaries
come, and then it was on the average £lOO
a year less than, the cost-of-living figures
indicated was justifiable. And when in the
boom times wheat was bringing £1 a bag
and fat lambs £1 a head, and wool was worth
20 to 30 pence and more per pound, did the
“C.H.R.’s” insist that teachers share in the
prosperity?
I suggest that “C.H.R.” remember the
next time he prepares to heave a brick in
this direction that Vic. teachers have had
their salaries (on the average £3 lower per
week than the average N.S.W. teacher’s)
reduced in accordance with the Premiers’
Plan, have had their promotions held up
without Parliamentary sanction, the staff-
ing of schools has been reduced, junior teach-
ers have been kept on at boy-and-girl wages
over the age of 21, and opportunities for
any promotion at all are soon to be abol-
ished by legislative action—which looks like
a pretty fair share of the bad luck.—Yours
indignantly, Country Fed. (Vic.).
THE BLIND MONSTER.
“We must give the employing class no rest"-Trades Hall leader , advocating the general strike,
THE VICTIM: “But, God help me, I am not the employing class!”


NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
Tho Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
IV onobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
vV
#
5^
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural,
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” is in its 91st year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates “The Examiner/’ “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Ivembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through + he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd
Paid-up Capital.. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. ~ .. .. ~ 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. .. .. \ 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 .. .. .. .. £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua.
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Cooramin”: Among the passing customs
of the good old days must be numbered the
big bell, rigged on top of a high pole, like
a. school bell, that was conspicuous at many
squattage homesteads. Its purpose was to
regulate the station hands, and the places
where it* was installed were known as bell
stations, which was a term of disrespect. • I
camped one August night near a homestead
north of Jondaryan (Q.), and next morning
was awakened by the get-up bell. It was
four o’clock. “Blitherin’ bell station!’’
snorted my mate. “We’re not goin’ there.’’
The place belonged to, Tyson, and it was a
local legend that that gentleman arrived there
unexpectedly at five o’clock on a winter’s
morn and found the whole place still asleep.
The.bell was put up before the week was out.
“Wandi”: “Wealsman” asks if the state-
ment that the Tasmanian swans are the
only edible ones in Australia is correct (B.
17/S/’32). All I know about that part, of
it is a recipe for cooking them given me by
an old bushman. After cleaning one, you
bury it for 24 hours, then steep overnight in
salted water, stuff with a black duck, and
bake slowly, for a half a day, basting freely
the while. When you can drive a nail into
its breast, it is cooked. Then you eat the
duck.
“E.S.S.” : One of the famous haunted huts
of the bush is Strathmore, an outcamp on
the road from the Dawson to Mount Hutton
(Q.'). A swagman camped there one evening
when the place was new, and in the dusk
he was sitting on the doorstep having a
i smoke, when he saw a figure coming towards
him in a long white robe. Without bother-
ing about his belongings he bolted. A,stock-
man- got his swag for him next day, and
reported that he had seen the apparition
moving down the creek with a tilted cart
and. a substantial wife. On the previous
evening,, the ghostly wayfarer explained, the
missus was mending his only pants, and he
had donned a nightgown of hers to protect
his legs from mosquitoes. He was going to
the hut to get a pipe of. tobacco when the
visitor stampeded. For all that, the hut has
been “haunted” ever since, and is shunned
by the superstitious who don’t know its story.
“A.L.K.”: Henare Waipiro, eager to
qualify for relief work as a married man,
arrived recently with a waliine at a King
Country parsonage. “And your intended
wife’s name?” asked the clergyman. “Oh,”
said Henare, “I forget to ask her. Wait on ;
I go outside and see.”
* * * *
, “Homfrey Beale”: Insufficient vigilance
is exercised over our . wild-life sanctuaries,
and the penalties inflicted for wanton de-
struction of life and conveniences are
totally inadequate. The proneness of
magistrates to listen to the almost invari-
able excuse of delinquents that they “didn’t
know it was a sanctuary” and cognate
weeps would be farcical 'if, it wasn’t so
tragic. In some country townis of N.S.W.
the weekly half-holiday is celebrated by a
certain kidney of pea-rifle artists and cata-
pultists in a raid on the easy prey of the
sanctuaries. The denizens of the" sanctu-
aries are our invited guests, and it is high
time stronger measures were taken against
the hobbledehoys who butcher them.
SUSTAINING WORDS.
IKEY: “He can’t swim — how does he keep up?”
C OHEN: “By talking, of course.”
WAR MEMORIALS.
The bloke that done, that oughter got the sack. Why, it ain’t no more like an
Horstralian soldier than wot I am.”
“Carrabin”: Anyone who believes, that
crows can’t be trapped had better change
his opinion. Up at Mooiuloondah (C.Q.).
the station slaughteryard was the centre of
gravity for the black devils, and when they
had scoffed up all the offal after a kill
they raided hens’ nests and even attacked
young pigs. We tried shooting, but the
pickets rarely gave us a chance to
get within range. Next, wo put
a plug •of gelignite under 'some
offal, lit a time fuse, and retired
.to i watch. - events. Before the ex-
. plosion came, the yard was black
with’ crow's. Afterwards, a few
feathers floated around and we put
in a day’s hard yakker repairing
wreckage to the fences. Next day
a chap; who said Tie could trap
crows came-looking for a job. , He
got it. With a few sticks of
timber and some wire-netting he
built a cage about five feet long,
three feet wide and two feet deep.
Through an opening at one end
of the cage he. inserted,, as .an en-
trance, a tube extending from the
outside to the centre,' on the floor
of which he fitted a piece of
timber. This tubular entrance
was made of netting, and tapered
from about a foot in width at the
outside to a space just large
enough for a crow to squeeze
through at the inside. A hunk
of offal inside the cage for bait
completed the jobl Within an
hour, a swarm of crows filled the
cage, and the noise reminded us of a
Nationalist candidate getting a “fair and
impartial hearing” in a Labor stronghold.
We settled the crows’ hash with a snaring
wire fastened to a stick, and counted 66
after the first round.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: The origin of the idea men-
tioned by “Orn” (B. 31/S/’32) that banging
a tea-tray will induce a swarm of bees to
settle-is to be found in an old English law,
which laid it down that if a swarm emerged
from a hive- the owner thereof could claim
it wherever it settled, provided he had kept
it in sight and had rung a bell or
beaten a gong while running after it.
Swarms can be stopped by squirting the
flying bees with water, throwing dust
into them, or firing a guri'into the air,
but; these measures are only of use if the
swarm is hovering. Once-It starts off across
country, especially if the wind is behind it,
the smartest- sprinter on earth can’t keep up
with it; It can be stopped in only one way, and
that is by moving ahead of it in. a car or on
a horse, and then getting,between the swarm
and the sun with a mirror—the bigger the
better- —arid flashing, the sun’s" rays upon the
scouts.. This makes. the bees lose all sense
of direction, and after a tiirie they settle.
. “.Hornby”: Among many . New Guinea
tribes,the most-cared-for part of the body
is ;theVhair of the.head. To have a piece
of this removed by anyone but the owner
is, .it is • firmly • believed, liable. to cause
serious illness ,, and even death; it will at
the. very least result in premature greyness
and falling out, with depleted bodily strength
and impaired courage. (Among some of
the Hood Bay tribes'the same belief attaches
to the cutting of the. nails by any except
the owner.) > A common trick of sorcerers
in dealing with a recalcitrant case is to
get a strand of hair identical in shade with
his, persuade him that it was pinched
during sleep, and gain capitulation as the
price of restoration of the wisp. The re-
covered lock will then be reverently buried
by the supposed owner, and catastrophe
averted. Among the old-time Motu and
JVlotu-motu tribes interference or attempted
interference with the hair of another was
a heinous offence, and the culprit almost
invariably died mysteriously shortly after
detection.
THE MARCH OF SCIENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“These scientific blokes,” he said, and spat
into the blazing wood,
“I sometimes think, for all their nous, they
do a sight more harm than good.
They prove that two and two is four, beyond
the shadow of a doubt,-
But ev’ry puzzle that they solve leaves some-
thing less to talk about.'
The bush don’t seem the-place, it was, when
almost any night or morn
You’d hear old hands in brisk dispute on
how the kangaroo is born.
“In shearers’ huts, on stockmen’s camps,
round swagmen’s fires on hill or flat.
When other topics petered out the mob
could always turn to that.
Hammer and tongs they’d at it go, and each
man doggedly depose
To all the things he’d-seen and heard and
thought—and always at the close
It stayed an open question still. You never
noticed, I’ll be sworn,
A chap convinced against his will on how
the. kangaroo is born.
“They’d argue out the pros and cons, and
which was which and what was what;
And some relied on logic cold and more on
partisanship hot.
This side or that you had to take, ’twas hard
to keep an open mind;
And as the cheery wrangle raged, this way
or that the scale inclined.
There never was agreement reached, where
stock are droved or sheep are shorn,
Or swaggies hump the drum, about the way
the kangaroo is born.
“It gave a zest to out-back life —I guess
’twas very much the same
About the earth bein’ round or flat, before
old Galileo came.
The cleverest couldn’t say for sure; ’twas
like the riddle of the 'Sphinx;
It livened many a dreary meal and went un-
common well with drinks.
Now it’s another pair of sleeves. You’d
only be inviting scorn
To hint there’s any doubt about the way
the kangaroo is born.
“These scientific blokes,” lie said, “of course
they do a mighty lot
In stamping vulgar errors out and sending
fool ideers to pot.
Their job, they say, ’s to make the sum of
human knowledge grow apace;
They never trouble if it leaves the poor old
world a duller place.
Yet every truth they broadcast serves to
make some outlook more forlorn.
’Twas never settled in the bush, the w r ay
the kangaroo is born.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


mm?
NO
BOOK
OVER,
m
He
OKS
NEW BOOKS
ON EVERY SUBJECT
Fiction Games
Home-arts Motors
Carpentry Electricity
Gardening Wireless
Classics, Economics, etc.
Mechanics Technical
Detailed Lists Post Free —WRITE TO-DAY
Address
CENTRAL ARCADE,
P.O. BOX lvBll PERTH, W.A.
ĕ
NOTES-TIPS-RESULTS.,
IYHE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL. STATES-6!
ė
ę
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits §in., fin. and ?in. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/- each, post free.
Sfie PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle _ 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)'
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case-
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—|in. and fin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
FOR SEPTEMBER,
NOW ON SALE
Will prices recover to 1928
levels ?
The future of Consols.
Outlook for Industrials.
The metal markets.
These and many other questions of
vital interest to investors are dis-
cussed in the September issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N. 2.).
“IvOorngai”: A careful housekeeper is a
dottrel, which never enters the nest without
first vigorously shakinv its feet backwards,
first one and then the other —practically
wiping them on the front-door mat. Mr.
Dottrel, who shares' the duty of incubation,
is even more particular than his mate, lie
stops within a foot of the nest to shake
his trotters, and sometimes gives an extra
kick before entering the sanctum. When
folding, the birds tread about in mud and
weeds and water, but never a speck is
found on the eggs, and the nest is always
clean. Mr. Dottrel seems to he general
manager of the business. If the hen doesn’t
resume duty within a reasonable time after
lie has left the eggs, which lapse occurs
at times when there, is danger about, the
hen being timid, ,he rounds her up and
follows her to the nursery. I .have noticed
water-hens agitate their legs before' enter-
ing the nest, a habit born of . wet feet, but
they ai’e not so particular as the dottrels,
and their eggs are often soiled.
❖ * ' ❖ _ n'
“Si Anu”: Ants seem to have the instinct
of nationalism more ferociously developed
than any other class of insects. There is
a large fierce ant which swarms- on a par-
ticular variety of wild rubber-tree in. Malaya.
While the buds of the tree ’ are unfolding
and the leaves are. undeveloped the bud
scales exude a nectar which is the .staple
means of subsistence for the ant nation.
When the flowers open there is a fresh
addition to the natural resources of the
country in the shape of two honey glands,
which maintain the flow of nectar when the
bud scales have ceased producing. Frequent
visitors to the .tree, are the leaf-cutting ants,
which, if they get a chance, cut circular
holes in the umbrage and carry the pieces
off, holding them over their heads like
umbrellas. They , masticate the pieces and
then eject them, thus forming seedbeds for
a fungus on which they depend for their subsis-
tence. The-leaf-cutters are ardent believers in
the principles of Freetradc, but the rubber-tree
ants are one and all sturdy Protectionists,
and their (tariff wall, ; being composed of
particularly powerful jaws, is practically in-
surmountable. By- its behavior the tree
appears to favor the , Projectionist policy,
and up-to-date the Protectionists have not
been induced to meet the Freetraders in an
Ottawa Conference.
* * * *
“Laodah”: The were-tiger, mentioned in
a recent Abo. par, has its counterpart in
the were-elephant of Borneo. The members
of one of the tribes have the dread power
of turning themselves into a herd of these pro-
boscidse and are thus enabled to prey on
their neighbors’ keladi crqps with, compara-
tive impunity. ' On'one occasion, however.
SILLY WHITE-P FELLER!
DAD : “Here, you put this fly-paper in your camp — it'll catch all the flies."
JACKY: “But fly no plurry' good when you do catch 'em.”
an elephant was speared in the foot by a
native named Damit. Damit followed the
spoor until he came to a clearing in the
jungle in which stood a longhouse. Mount-
ing the longhouse in search of refreshment
lie found it full of people in an acute state
of agitation on account of the illness of the
chief’s daughter, a young woman of
surpassing beauty. On being admitted to
the royal presence .Damit, discovered that
the broken end of a spear was stick-
ing out of her ’foot., and that it was his
spear. To. cut,a long story short, he dis-
sembled his suspicions and, after hearing
tin 1 extent of her dowry, married the damsel
and took .her home, but not before she had
extracted a promise from him never to give
her keladi to eat. The pair lived happily for
some, time until a natural curiosity moved
Damit to insert some of the forbidden vege-
table into . the family curry. Immediately
on partaking of it his spouse turned into
an elephant and rushed off into the jungle
and has never been seen or heard of' since.
I know this story to be true, because I
had Damit pointed out to me. He was a
middle-aged gentleman consumed with self-
pity over his ill-fortune. Some of the vil-
lagers said it was a curious coincidence
that the Chinese storekeeper had disappeared
at the same time as the princess, but this
was put down to malice.
“Tangaloli” : “Mary McCommonwealth’s”
abos. who used to make perpendicular cuts
in the bark of trees when climbing them
weren’t typical. When a boy on the Upper
Hunter, about 78 years ago, I often had
a day’s outing in the bush with a couple
of abos. They used tomahawks made by a
- bush blacksmith, having a Y-shaped eye
and a blade about Sin. long by 3in. wide.
With this they cut horizontal steps on the
right- and left-hand sides of the tree, each
' step about 2ft. above the last one, the
climber standing with his face to the tree
with his left arm holding on to the side
of the trunk. In returning he came down
backwards like a native bear.
* * * *
“11.A.L.”: The best of the old-time bullock
bells were made out of old circular saws, ri
eight or six gauge. From this material was
cut a round piece of steel about eight inches
in diameter.. This was heated to a clear
red in a forge, and beaten into the shape
of a bell with a hammer. It was a job
needing great .skill and patience, for the steel
had to be reheated at least a score of times,
but when the bell was finished it had a
wonderfully sweet tone, and no two bells
. ever, liad quite the same note. I have a
horse-bell which a smith named Peter Patter-
son made for me in this way up in Central
Aus. many years ago; its clear note carries
for a : great distance.
, * ’ * :S *
“Taliune”: What's the heaviest Matilda
a man can stagger along under? To my
camp on Tassy’s west coast there came
in 1894 three men, making for Flanigan’s
Flat, and carrying between them 2SSIb. One
of them had a badly-gashed foot, so he
carried only 801 b. I had a mate with a
lame leg who thought nothing of stepping out
with a cwt., and considered two “50’s” of
flour a mere item. Knew one packer to
the Ring River field who attempted 1301 b.,
but it beat him, or rather the track did.
Stefansson, who gave Australia a look-over,
puts it on record that in Arctic regions he
met some human mules who made 80 miles
in four days, “carrying two 901 b. pieces [of
auriferous ore], and some could get away
with three pieces each and their food for
four days—a rifle, ammunition, fry-pot, tin
pan, etc.”
*.* - * *
“G.S.L.”: I was having a swim in a pool
in the Hale River, Centralia, when Dool-
gan, who had been acting as my guide, saw
me, and with a yell
came bolting along and
jumped straight in.
He vanished beneath
the surface, to emerge
beside me. With a yell
of terror lie grabbed
me around the neck
and we both went
under. I couldn’t
make out what was
the matter, but soon
things began to be very
serious, for I couldn’t
get a breath. At last
i managed to pull my
right arm free and
punched the abo. on
the nose as hard as I
could. This made
him let go, and as
soon as I had regained
my wind I dragged
him out by the hair.
When the old boy re-
covered he explained to
me that he thought
the pool was only shal-
low, seeing that I had
my head above water.
I then found that
neither he nor any
person in his tribe—
the Arunta—c o u 1 d
swim, nor had they any
idea that it was pos-
sible for human beings
to swim until they saw
white fellows doing it.
As I had spent many
happy hours swim-
ming in the Murray
with the boys of the
Nanninyerrie tribe
before going north, I naturally had thought
that all abos. could swim—a mistake which
many other people have made. The fact is
that; unless he lived beside deep water, the
abo. was unable to swim , a stroke.
❖ ❖ >!:
“Kayeff”: The epicure of oysters is taken
much more seriously in England and France
than in Australia. He
can call for oysters
with or without beards,
fattened, or even color-
ed green. The provision
of certain grades of
oysters i.s a staple in-
dustry in France, the
home of oyster culture
being at Marennes and
La Tremblade, on the
River Sendre. The fat-
tening process is carried
out in pits, called
claires, converted from
old salt-pans used for-
merly for manufactur-
ing sea-salt. Certain
grades of soil ai’e essen-
tial, the colors ranging
through black, grey,
blue and yellow to red,
and each giving differ-
ent results. Two or
three oysters to the
square foot art' allowed
in the pits, and the flow
of water is controlled
by flood-gates. The
claires become covered
with green slime, from
which the oysters get
the much-prized green
coloring. The fattening
season is late autumn
•and winter. Selected
oysters 12 to 16 months
old are used, and take
a further two years to
become properly, green.
Though the demand for
such delicacies in Aus-
tralia is not sufficient
to make this type of
culture a paying pro-
position, it may he
noted that the soil of our salt swamps, is
held by experts to be suitable, as the . mud
is similar to Thames mud, which is famous
for its oyster-fattening properties.
* * * *
“D.H.R.”: The special aversion of the
bushman is the one-dish cook. The worst
of the tribe I ever struck was “Chinaman
Jack,” whose handle was given him by
Bananalahd busli-workers because of the
frequency with which he served up rice
in various disguises. Often he put it on
as a sweet and a vegetable at _ the same
meal, and gave us rice water in lieu of
tea at work. He said tea was bad for our
nerves, and he was a nasty man to argue
with. The rice bill for 10 of us for a four
months’ job was £26 7s. Another babbler I
fed under in Western Queensland put
cloves in everything, even in the kangaroo-
tail soup. One day while he slept we
raided the store, tent. We found something
FAIR WARNING.
“Spit out.”
“By cripes, an’ that’s jus' what I will do if you pul that
buzz-thing on to me again. An’ it won’t be the words of
the Lord’s prayer, either.”
like 101 b. of cloves, which we promptly made
away with. He was so hurt when he clis
covered the loss that he left the job, sum-
ming us up in one heart-broken sentence
to the boss: “There’s some people yer can t
do good for —they won’t be done good to.
“M.L.C.”: All efforts to convey a live
platypus to England have so far failech A
recent attempt was made by C. b. \\ebi.
who sailed on the Mongolia with a number
of specimens of Tasmanian fauna lor thu
London Zoo. The platypus is a dmi-
cult travelling companion. Not only does
it require vast supplies of worms for nourish-
ment, a feeding tank—since it is a “wet
feeder —and a dry cosy chamber to retire to,
but, according to Mr. Webb, it is so tempera-
mental that if it does not get what it wants
immediately it just turns up its toes He
left one feeding happily in its tank and went
to dinner himself; on his return lie found
the platypus, evidently annoyed at being kept
waiting for its after-dinner nap, was stone-
dead. The little creature is very careful in its
natural state to avoid actually wetting its
skin, which is largely protected by tlic oili-
ness of its fur, and the moisture is brushed
off by the ferns and roots when .travelling
through its tunnel. When kept captive,
therefore, it must be carefully rubbed down
with a bath towel before being put to bed
after feeding; it will then sleep for a whne
and awake as playful as a kitten.- Shoubt
the water, however, penetrate to the slnn.
it will evince its discomfort by scratching
the back of its neck —and that’s good-night.
A live platypus did actually once reach
America and was displayed to an unbroken
chain of sightseers,, each of whom paid n
shilling for a glimpse of the extraordinary
little animal. Unfortunately the little gold-
mine suddenly petered out, for another of
the platypus’s whimsies is that it strongly
objects to being handled. The attendant:
didn’t know that.
“Dai R.”: The reaction of my fox-terrier
to an unusual experience seems to me analo-
gous to the case of the shell-shocked soldier.
Twelve, months ago while wandering along
a wire-netting fence on Old Mowabln
station, near Condobolin (N.S.W.), lie gave
chase to a rabbit, and in the ardor of pur-
suit fell after his quarry through the trap-
door of a rabbit-pit. When I arrived lie
was standing in the centre of the pit floor
whining and trembling, violently, with bun-
nies racing madly round him and occasion-
ally doing leapfrog acts over his back. When
I released him he beat it towards Westralia
at top speed. He returned home three days
later. Since then he refuses to pursue a
rabbit, though his zeal as a chaser of any-
thing else that moves is abnormal.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
(Opp. Railway Station),
’Phone P4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms :: 200 Baths
I*
11
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel.
Rates per day:
Room and meals from 22/6
Room and Breakfast from 12/6
THINKING AHEAD
rhe right kind of thinking ahead, of planning for the future,
is that which is instantly translated into action, when the
thinker, the planner, has decided upon the objective and the
means by which it may be obtained.
Every man or woman who so plans must take money into
consideration, and every man or woman who thinks must
realise how valuable a means the Savings Bank account can be.
It costs nothing, cannot be overworked, and pays an interest
profit commensurate with your tenacity of purpose.
(Hbmmoiiwealtl) Savings Bank of Hustralia
( E. C. RIDDLE, Governor.)
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED I860.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London.
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
SMOKE-OH!
U ill anyone knowing the present address of Mr.
J. A. Lyons, a massage specialist, who was for
some years practising at Tweed Heads and Sydney,
kindly notify”..;.— “Woman’s Mirror
Well, there’s a man by that name at Can-
berra, and he’s still rubbing it in.
if if
“Witness said he inspected accused’s bakery and
found a dog sleeping on a bag containing bread.”
— Melb. “Herald.”
As Omar might have said: “Here, with a
loaf of bread beneath the bow-wow!”
It
“Artistic? Is my wife artistic? Why, she’s so artistic that she
doesn't care how the soup tastes so long as it’s a pretty color.”
“Bell which lias been ringing for 92 years.”
— “Argus” headline.
What on earth was the age of the waitress?
if if
HER ASSET.
As Moses Cohen held the previously in-
dignant woman in his arms she recalled with
shame how rudely she had treated him. “I
wonder,” she said, “that you took any more
notice of me.”
“My tear,” he exclaimed passionately, “it
only madt me brize you der more! Your
eyes flashed vire! Tot an asset for a man
who’s garrying a pig insurance on his pizzi-
noss bremises !” U
“lt is dangerous to arouse a man too quickly
from a state of intoxication.” —Votert doctor.
It shortens liis daze.
tf if
“During his weekly holiday the man was knocked
down and rendered senseless three times,”
It is known as having a day out.
>f ;f
INDIGNANT DENIALS EXPECTED.
“I regard Bert Stevens as Australia’s fore-
most statesman, a sportsman to the back-
bone, and the most soul-satisfying preacher
I ever sat under.” —J. T. Lang.
“Give me a corner in a cheerful wine-
shop arid a gallon of 1932 sherry. I ask
no more of life.” —Canon Hammond.
“I class Sydney’s idol, Frankie Wine, as
the greatest heavy I have had
the pleasure of doing business
with. He combines the speed
and skill of Oriffo with the
punching ability and staying
power of Les Darcy.”—H. D.
McIntosh.
"My chief impression of;tin*
Tin Hare Inquiry? Unques-
tionably, the almost scientific pas-
sion for exact ty’utli manifest >d
by the witnesses, one and all."
—Justice H’at.kk Rogers.
“If there is a political
menace in Australia to-day; if
there is a man (so-called) who
deserves to be hounded from
the country as recreant to the
trust which the bedevilled and
betrayed workers have reposed
in him; if there is one who has
proved himself a disgrace to the
fair name of Militant Prole-
tarianism, it is the bloated capi-
talist who holds a £13,700
mortgage over this paper—
John Thomas Lang.”—"Labor Daily.”
.T.
■ * *
NEW VERSION.
“The minstrel hoy to the tears has (/one,”
In a long-tailed coat you’ll find Mm;
A hht shiny bride to his arm -hangs on.
And a parson beams behind him.
¥ •'£
ANOTHER EXPOSURE EXPOSED.
The Opposition Leader had the floor.
This smug, canting, political humbug,” lie
hissed, “this monster of hypocrisy' who alleg-
edly leads the priceless collection of mental
cripples on the Treasury benches, will now
be revealed to the House as a domestic black-
guard of the first water. Listen to these
extracts from a private, letter he wrote to
a woman who. incidentally, is not his wife:—
“My dear ....
was .... drunk
again .... I want
you looking
forward- to; your
.... kisses ....
J larling .... Yours
Th e Premier,
continuing the de-
bate, said that the
Leader of the
Op p o sition had
touched the rock-
bottom of political
depravity when,
taking a coward’s
advantage of Par-
liamentary privi-
lege, he had made
vile, innuendoes con-
cerning his (the
Premier’s) honor.
The copy of the
letter quoted from
had been rifled
from his office desk.
He would read it
to the House iu
full:—
“My dear Mrs.
Smith, —Our c@ok
has been dismissed,
as I was disgusted
to find tliat she
was drunk again.
As you have first
option for the vacant position, my wife and
I want you to take over as soon as possible.
The children say they are again looking for-
ward to your tai-ts and kisses, at the mak-
ing of which you used tp be «o expert. As
I leave practically immediately for the
Darling Downs, kindly make, any arrange-
ments with my wife. —Yours faithfully
S. W.K.
ff
“50 comic postcards, Is. 3d. (Gross,' 2s. fid.”
• • , — “Tun.”
A sad commentary on Australian morals
that the gross ones .should be worth twice
as much as the others.
“A man nearly always marries his girl-fiend.”
—“Sun.”
Quite. But he doesn’t find it out till after
marriage.
If if
HIS TRIUMPH.
“Rev. Davidson, who was recently fined £2 for
creating a public nuisance by sitting in a barrel
at Blackpool, has got a London engagement at
£SOO a week.”
“I don’t want to seem boastful.” said the
manager of the world-famous prima donna,
“but if the Diva can get equal service from
anyone else I’d like to know his address.
The critics had been saying she was going
back, that music lovers weren’t as enthrisi-
MR. THREBALS: “He’s an insolent young
scamp, and you must cuts him out,
I told him I could, not entertain his
suit, and he said, he wasn't visiting me
professionally.”
astic as of yore, and there were hints that
I was to blame— l, mindver. who wangled
her D.B.E. for her!”
“And now you have vindicated yourself?”
“I should say so. This morning I pulled
the necessary strings, and before nightfall
the old girl’s to be formally declared a public
nuisance!”
D.
if. if
“YV ith the stream in ordinary condition, trout
may be found at both ends of the pool.”— “Argus.”
The anglers, however, are usually found
lying elsewhere.
“bike to meet gentleman, not too tall, in good
position.'.”—' “Age,”
Clearly he must als 0 be not too short.
tf if
NIGHT-OUT BALANCE-SMEET.
Liabilities.
Unaccountable disappearance of £l2 7s. 5d
One lost hat.
One watch, given to lady who somehow
joined our party.
Ten pound fine and costs.
Three and six for medicine, aSpros, etc.
Assets.
One skinful of beer and spirits.
One crayfish.
One garter.
Six hours’ free lodging in police cell.
Wife gone home to mother.
Surplus of Assets Over Liabilities.
Wife gone home to mother.
Audited and Certified Correct
S.V.D.—L.I.A.R.
tf if
MORE AIR RECORDS.
Setting new figures for the hot-air endur-
ance record at Canberra last night. Ben
Bonedome, M.P., easily beat his own world’s
record when “Hansard” clocked him at 14hr.
oGmin. 22sec. on an Empire-unity speech
The House stood up to it —or rather lav
down to it—well. The feat is the more
meritorious inasmuch as it was performed
without refuelling.
Experimenting in the political strato-
sphere, Messrs. Hardy and Earle Page sur-
passed all previous attempts when they went
up in a ballon d’essai to see which way the
wind blew. Paradoxically, the windier they
became and the more gas they got rid of,
the higher they went. They are still up.
No alarm is felt in politico-aeronautical
circles, as they must eventually come down
to earth, but the puzzling feature is their
reason for going so high, as in the intensely-
rarefied atmosphere talking is quite impos-
sible.
The world’s slow-speed record was broken
y< sterday by Mr. Simkin, a public servant.
Rising slowly at 8.35 a.m. in a dense fog, he
flew to the office at lj m.p.h., arriving at
9.55 a.m. He crashed in a tale-spin, as
the boss had got there ahead of him. The
new record-holder suffered no ill-effects
beyond being knocked conscious.
S. W. K.
* *
With “We’ll turn the corner shortly,”
The politicians fob
Vs off; but budding hopes still fade —
Their efforts make one sob.
It seems that we are lacking still
Skilled turners for the job.
H.M.
# V
“110 oases are listed for hearing in the Divorce
Court this month.” —Melbourne paper.
Spring fashions —divorce suits.
if. ’f
“During the disturbance Herman Dorff was thrown
into the river. He was formerly immensely popular
with the radicals.”-— Cable,
They must have cooled Dorff.
if. if
“C. G. Macartney says nervousness in a batsman
may improve his display.”
We certainly like to see a batsman cut
and run.
if if
In his relations with England De Valera
prefers tirade to trade.
if if
“The Transport Board has done us no good.”
— “Sun.”
Well, no one can say Rang didn’t have
Goode intentions with regard to it.
if if
“No one can deny that Parliament needs reform-
ing.”—“Age.” 7
That or chloroforming.
LAURA (who has just heard of her rival's
engagement ): “I—I didn’t quite get
your intended’s name.”
N ORAH: “No, dear But you tried hard
to, didn’t you?”
“One quarter of the world’s population has defec-
tive hearing.”— “Sun.”
The explanation is that many others have
an overdeveloped sense of touch.
COURNSEL'S ADVIGE.
1 am acting under counsel’s advice.”
—Royal Commission witness.
Then Monahan examines, and Rogers J.
insists,
Don t try to save your bacon by dialectic
twists.
His Honor’s line of logic may seem a, shade
obscure,
Rut that he’ll see through lying, you may
be very sure.
Re vague about that bank account (you
might have won a bet!)
And, if you must, remember; but, if you
can, forget.
They’ll ask you of the money that reached
you. Lord knows how,
And why you were in debit, and are in
credit now;
They'll hint some politician was in the little
joke
That left you with a fortune instead of
stony-broke.
Their harmless-sounding questions arc
charges to be met,'
Ho, if you must, remember; but, if you -can,
forget.
A memory as feeble as any moron’s is
May handicap the owner in what is known
as biz:
Lut when a Judge starts probing into a
Party’s past
II is a priceless asset, one to be clung to
fast;
Ho flaunt yours like a banner or soldier’s
epaulet;
They’ll urge you to remember; but, take my
tip , FORGET.
10-2-4.
THE BETTER RISK.
“A 1 Capone is an exemplary prisoner.”
Immured within the calaboose
His character, which once was loose,
Has tightened up
Intensely.
So more lie fears, the nimble knife.
The gat, the bursting bomb of strifej
The “expectation of his life”
Has brightened up
Immensely.
L. A.
THE MASTER HORROR.
“Will Griminett Fail Us?” — “Sun.”
Let everyone rally and help in forestalling
A fate for Australia so bleakly appalling.
Though weary old Europe is half torn
asunder
With war-talk that savors, of rapine and
plunder ,
Most frightful of all the dread things that
assail us
Is the thought that our veteran bolder may
fail us!
What’s it matter if things 'economic arc
shattered.
And civilisation lies bleeding and battered?
Let our prices for wool, wheat and butter
go hang
And the country be governed by someone
like Lang;
It might be unpleasant, but what .would
avail us .
If our only exploiter of googlies should
fail us?
D. McM.


■
333
-333,
ct
C<C.AR« ~l
rum*,
St«ik<
3?*i
05®,
J£:
r^S
n
033
3y<
i\i
a 5 33
fl
im
three
t HR££ S
*re
N/Ne
rOR
IKP ENq e
0
EXP* 1
IBU' 57U's
Also in Flat Fifties, Flat Hundreds,
and Round Airtight Fifties.
It doesn’t pay to be absent-minded when buying
cigarettes. Just before you give the tobacco-
nist your order, remember the four things
about State Express (l) Ardath quality
(2) Treble wrapping— (3) cork and plain tips
(4) Three-Threes are NINE for sixpence. For
those four conclusive reasons, "state expressly
State Express."
CORK TIPPED and PLAIN
-.9 2.


NOT
NEXE
Holi day
gPECIAL concessions have brought Pacific
Island tours within reach of all, so why not
spend your next holiday amid ideal surroundings?
Excursions to SUVA—HONOLULU—RAROTONGA— PAPEETE via N,Z
For jull particulars apply
UNION S. S. CO., Ltd.
247 George Street,
Sydney.
AND UNION Lime
59 William Street,
Melbourne.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAYBESTOS
“Silver Edge”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
15he
Current Account
An initial deposit of a
moderate amount will make
available the services of the
National Bank to an indi-
vidual, firm, corporation or
society through a current
account, which may be
opened at any branch of the
Bank.
It is neither necessary nor
safe to retain more than
small sums of money on
hand, as a current account
provides a safe depository
for funds, and the Bank’s
patented pocket cheque book
provides an easy and con-
venient method of making
payments.
A pass book, which affords
a valuable record of receipts
and payments, is supplied to
each customer.
THE
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
SYDNEY OFFICE 342-346 GEORGE STREET
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund (used in the business)
£5,000,000
£3,000,000
MICK SIMMONS’
Great Displays!
Citcid
1932-1933
TJJU
Aim
APH
"BATS
Made from imported finest grade
Close Bark English Willow, ex
pressly foi Mick Simmons, Ltd.,
under special agreement with
Slazengers, Australia, Ltd. Repre-
sentative of the very highest in
craftsmanship, quality, and finish.
Handles are from finest quality Sara-
wak Cane, with treble shock-absorb-
ing spring.
Similar quality handle in all “ Mc-
Cabe ” Bats. All have rubber grip
on handle. Each Bat individually
selected and personally autographed
by Stan McCabe.
Test Driver de Luxe . . . . 67/6
5 Star . . . ; 60/-
4 Star . . . 50/.
3 Star , . . . 45/.
2 Star . .... 37/6
1 Star 30/.
1
m
■a
&
Use and Win a “Stan McCabe ” Autograph Bat!
A NEW BAT*
FREE I
A Century or over compiled with
a “Stan McCabe” Bat entitles
the player to a new bat FREE !
See Mick Simmons’ New Cricket Catalogue for full particulars.
METROPOLITAN CLUBS!
Avail yourself of
MICK SIMMONS’ GRADUAL PAYMENT PLAN
A Low Deposit secures a full complement of Material for
your Club. Gradual easy repayments.
Full Particulars on Application,
“DON BRADMAN”
LEG GUARDS
Pair
White Canvas, well padded . . . . . . 18/6
White Canvas, shaped calf protector,
3 rolls over knee, with extra shin
padding 217-
White Buckskin, otherwise similar to
above • 27/6
White Buckskin, International model,
3 rolls over knee, side protectors and
three cross pads inside ■ • 32/6
—>■ ‘_W
rr
u
“STAN McCABE” LEG GUARDS
Pair
White Canvas, well padded •• . . • . 18/6
White Canvas, shaped calf protector, 3 rolls, shin padding 217-
White Buckskin, similar to above 277-
White Genuine Doeskin, International Model, 3 rolls over
knee, side protectors, and three cross pads inside . . • • 32/6
“DON BRADMAN”
Leather Cricket Balls
All Match Weight, viz., 5 %0z.
All-Australian. Specifications conform to
M.C.C. Regulations. Finest Australian work-
manship and materials. Every Ball guaranteed.
In Six Grades:
Comet, Six Stitcher . . . . . . . . 8/-
Premier, Six Stitcher 10/-
Special, guaranteed 500 runs 12/6
Club, guaranteed 500 runs . . . 13/6
Match, guaranteed 600 runs . , 15/-
Test, guaranteed 600 runs . . . . 16/6
i*
“STAN McCABE” LEATHER BALLS
In Five Grades:
Star, Six Stitcher • • • • . , . . . . . 7/9
Special, Six Stitcher 9/9
Demon, guaranteed 500 runs . . . . . . 12/3
Best, guaranteed 500 runs . . . . . 13/3
Super Test, guaranteed 600 runs . . . , 14/9
(Carriage paid on above Cricket Material.)
All Letters to Box 18B, P.O., Haymarket, Sydney.
Mick Simmons Lid.
720-2 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, S Y D N E R
'‘The Premier Sports House of Australia."


k
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants.
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed* think of
SCHUTE,
BELL & Cua
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Briige Street, Sydney.
s s
e
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
YEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
CO OPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethovvan. M.L.O. Managing Director: 11. Fell.
Head Office: P. & 0. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
sc, Agency Co., Ltd. £=
The “MEXICAN”
Patented Riding Boot
(Reg. Design No. 5598.)
This boot was specially designed and
patented by Pike Brothers and is un-
equalled for comfort and service. The
two-fold strapped top fastens with a
buckle at side and gives a perfect fit .
over the instep. Gusset sides prevent
grass seeds from entering and render
the inside of the boot damp-proof.
In Black or Tan Calf. Send your
size with order to-day. (
Price, per pair, all sizes . . 28/6
Send order to Desk S. 11.
PIKE BROTHERS ITD.
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
And at Longreach, Toowoomba and Townsville.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
LOW-QUALITY WHEATS.
“Wodgil”: In a review published in the
N.S.W. “Agricultural Gazette,” H. Wenholz.
B.Sc.Agr., Director of Plant Breeding,
agrees with contributors to a recent M.O.L.
, controversy that the most popular wheat
varieties grown in Australia are deficient in
baking quality. Climate has a bearing on
the matter; thus a particular variety may
have a higher baking quality in one’. State
‘than in another. But “not even the most
‘favorable climatic conditions for producing
‘high protein or gluten content in the grain”
can impart a high baking quality to inher-
,ontly low-quality wheats.” Such are Federa-
Tion, Nabava, Gallipoli, Ranee, Gurrawa,
Canberra, Penny, Gluyas (Early and Late),
Waratah, Nizam, Sepoy, Joffre, Rajah. Yan-
dilla King, Gresley, Merredin, Caliph and
Marshall’s No. 3.
South Aus., Mr. Wenholz says, lias “a
reasonably good area” of Florence, which
yields grain of capital baking value. Victoria
goes in almost wholly for “medium to weak
flour wheats,” except for “limited quantities
of Minister, Pusa 4 and Ford.’; The same is
substantially true of N.-S. Wales and West-
ralia. Queensland is an exception : “Queens-
land wheat is generally of excellent baking
quality.” Pusa and Florence, the leading
wheats, produced there, “arc very early-
maturing wheats of a naturally high quality,”
and “the climate and much of the soil favor
a high protein content.” But “Queensland
barely produces sufficient wheat for its own
requirements.”
Mr. "Wenholz is impressed with the natu-
ral capacity of Westralia for producing
high-protein grain. “The spring rainfall
ceases more suddenly than in other States,
and with suitable varieties this State could
produce grain of high quality.” It does, in
fact, grow a little Minister. Florence, S.H.J.
and Pusa 4. Even more favorable are con-
ditions on the north-western slopes of N. S.
Wales, “particularly on rich, black chocolate
or dark-red soils which are well provided
with lime/ Wheat of good to excellent
baking quality is generally produced in this
district from Hard Federation, Ford, Flor-
ence and Pnsa 4, but these wheats are not
grown extensively ’on account of their com-
paratively ]ow 7 er yields.” Mr. Wenholz points
out that, except Nabawa, “none of the leading
varieties of wheat grown is resistant to flag-
smut, and none is highly resistant to stem
rust and other diseases.” He is of opinion
that these varieties “will mostly be replaced
in'the near future by better-yielding disease-
resistant varieties. Plant-breeders should,
at the same time, make a vigorous effort to
Improve the grain quality of Australian
wheats generally, if it is possible for higher
quality to be compatible with higher yield.”
He suggests, the possibility of millers and
merchants giving a premium for quality—
a possibility which many growers regard as
.remote.
NABAWA IN SOUTH AUS.
South Aus. has got.something from West-
ralia by way of compensation for the loss
of thousands of good farmers to that State
—Nabawa wheat. No doubt favorable
reports from many of the South Australians
settled in Westralia, where the variety was
developed, have contributed to its rapid
advance in popularity in the central State,
which has been truly remarkable, In 1925-
26 South Aus. had 2,465,648 acres under
‘wheat, and Nabawa was sown on a mere
1897 acres. This year 802,730 acres out of
4,327,153 acres under wheat (18.55 p.c.) were
.sown with Nabawa—the greatest area ever
put under one variety. The increase in one
year was 242,104 acres.
Gluyas, with 570,696 acres (13.19 p.c.),
was the next most popular variety. Gluyas
was bred at Roseworthy College, and South
Aus. farmers have immense respect for Rose-
worthy College wheats. Others of these planted
'this year were: Late Gluyas, 324,751 acres;
Ford, 203.250; Sultan, 128,976; Caliph.
105,163; Felix, 89,145, and Daphne, 65,963
—one third of the area sown. In all, 204
varieties are represented; but Nabawa,
•Gluyas, Late Gluyas, Federation (316,266
.acres) and Gallipoli (234,891) account for
more than half the area sown.
ROTATIONAL GRAZING AND lIAY.
“Curlew” : In experiments it has been
demonstrated that grass cut every fortnight
or three weeks is at its best for stock-feed-
ing. It is then a highly digestible food, rich
in protein and of great nutritive value.
These results are obtained whether the grass
is regularly mown every three weeks or
cleaned up by rotational grazing.
Every observant farmer has realised how
rapidly stock put on condition or give in-
creased returns of milk, etc., when the spring
growth of grass has fairly set in. It
becomes necessary to prolong this condition
of young short grass as long as possible.
In the tests it has been found that the per-
centage of protein from the same pasture
has been as follows: Cut weekly, 21.2 p.c.;
cut fortnightly, 18.6 p.c. ; cut three-weekly,
17.2 p.c.; while in the hay made from mature
pasture it was only 9 p.c. The fibre con-
tents were: Weekly cuttings, 19.4 p.c.; fort-
nightly, 20.5 p.c.; three-weekly, 22 p.c.;
hay, 33 p.c.
Where rotational grazing is practised it
is good policy to shut up some pasture for
meadow hay; indeed, good farm practice
anywhere. But to get really good hay the
grass must be cut ohly a few 7 days after it
has reached its stage of maximum flowering.
If allowed to mature its seed much of this
will be lost in handling, more will be wasted
passing through the animal undigested (par-
ticularly in sheep arid cattle), and the grass
haulms will be only straw 7 . With early
cutting, the nutriment is still in the stems
and leafage.
NATIVE GRASSES FOR SEED.
“Mulyan”: It is a w r onder none of our
N.S.W. farmers lias thought it worth while to
grow native grasses for seed. Many of these
grasses are cultivated on experimental farms,
as at Cowra, Bathurst, Nyngan and Yanco,
but not in sufficient quantities to supply
sufficient seed to all w 7 ho want it. A great
many pastoralists would, I think, broad-
cast most of the best sorts if they knew
where to get the seed in bulk. A number
of the most valuable are found only in
widely-separated districts, and to propagate
them elsewhere it is necessary to go to
those districts to gather the seed. That would
entail much travelling and expense, and per-
haps very little success would result, as the
grasses in the main might be eaten down
by stock before they seeded. Big grass plots
oi; the western plains should be a payable
sideline. Most of the grasses, after being
stripped and cut, fed off or burnt, will grow
up again.
SORTING WOOL ON STATIONS.
“Yalerin” : “Sheep-oh’s” (B. 7/9/’32) idea
is not new; it has been tried and found
impracticable. However much he may know
about “counts” and qualities, a woolclasser
is not necessarily, a sorter, which is a
specialised job requiring years of experience.
If lie had the qualifications the next obstacle
is procuring labor for a highly technical
work; the average woolroller or piecepicker
is not a skilled worker, and in a large shed
the classer lias to be on the alert to see
that even their simple operations are satis-
factorily performed. Unless it is done pro-
perly sorting on stations is a waste of
money; in any case, textile manufacturers
prefer to do their own sorting.
At one time woolscouring w 7 as done on
many stations and in country towns, and
it saved a considerable amount in freights.
Careless operations so injured the physical
structure and chemical composition of the
fibre that scouring had to be abandoned.
Technical problems are best left to the
manufacturing side, which is far too com-
plex to admit of amateurs butting in.
STRAWBERRY’S REQUIREMENTS.
“ J.A.S.”: Queensland dairy-farmers are
suffering from the effects of the driest winter
experienced for years, and on all sides one
hears resolutions being made to go in for
ensilage. It is to be hoped they won’t be
forgotten wlien the rain comes. A great
virtue of ensilage is its bulk. The stomach
capacity of the average cow is approximately
50 gallons, and to give the best results she
should be fed to her capacity. Remember
that she is, first and foremost, a roughage-
consuming animal. True, 50 gallons of any
old stuff won’t do, but when the balance of
tin* ration is made up with a protein-rich
mixture such as bran, corn and cob meal,
cottonseed meal and linseed meal, the result-
ant production makes one realise the very
great importance of bulk.
Even poor-quality hay is useful in making
up the bulk, but its great drawback is its
high fibre content, necessitating the expendi-
ture of much energy on the part of the cow 7
in assimilating arid digesting it. In good
ensilage the woody fibre is reduced to a
minimum and so much more of Strawberry s
energy is conserved for the more serious
business of making milk. ■’ I:
The- pit silos described in recent M.O.L.
pages f Tire so cheaply and, easily constructed,
and the necessary crops. so easily grown in
average Queensland seasons, that there is no
excuse for any cow-farmer being without a
good stock of ensilage. It’s there when
needed most. ■
BLOOM.
“Bouragi” : One of the problems facing the
Australian meat exporter is the preservation
of bloom in the meat, from the time of
butchering to delivery l in London. Bloom
may be roughly defined as the fresh and
ruddy appearance of the meat as it comes
from the slaughter-sheds to the cool-storage
depot, whence it is to be shipped overseas.
It is an all-important factor where _ the
buyer is concerned, and the shorter the jour-
ney the meat has to take and the better
the conditions under winch it has to travel
—chilling, that is, as opposed to freezing—
the more attractive the rnarketed article.
That is where the British product brings
higher prices than the Argentine stuff, the
latter, for the most part, coming a good
second, except in some of the lamb find
mutton classes, in which Maoriland is excel-
ling. To Australia, which is now making
a bold bid to get a hefty hoof into the
doorway of the British.lamb market, some
comment on a recent report ]iy the, British
Food Investigation Committee may be worth
attention.
Loss of bloom is largely due to excessive
drying of the superficial muscles, and, after
long cold storage, an actual chemical change
of the red muscle p'gment to a brown color-
ing. This last is one of the chief hurdles
isolated Australia has to get over. These
changes may be overcome or minimised by
not allowing the carcase to sw r eat from con-
tact with the outside air, and by storage
at a constant temperature or a very low
one. Much depends, the report adds, on
conditions before killing. Bad transport to
the slaughter-houses and rough treatment
there may make any attempt to keep
the bloom in a carcase futile. To preserve
the freshly-killed appearance, evaporation
must be checked at all costs. The report
recommends the covering of the carcases as
quickly as possible with bags impermeable
to water vapor. These should be odorless and
strong enough to stand rough handling, and
their cost, compared to the stockingette bag
in general use to-day. must not be, prohibi-
tive. It is regretfully added that, though
many types have been tried, the ideal bag
has still to be evolved.
The report does not spare the conditions
of transport from ships to cold storage at
London Docks. It is worth noting that
Maoriland, though the actual type of lamb
produced there is not initially superior to
ours, tops our best regularly on the London
market. Australia® has a lot to copy from
the M L. exporters, who have a rigid grad-
ing system. M.L. law foi’bids the export
of lamb or any other meat for sale abroad
which falls below the standard symbolised
by the Government brand.
THE WISDOM OF DR. WARREN.
American agriculture has reached a crisis,
and Dr. Warren, of Cornell University—a
famous man on the other side of the Pacific
—has been considering it. The way out, he
says, is to be found in scientific research,
agricultural extension training, the use of
improved machinery and greater output per
man ; and this is true of Australia as well
as the U.S.A. Indeed, Dr. Warren’s words,
with some reservations, are so' applicable to
Australian conditions that they should be
republished.
“The farmer should not work land that
does not give a high output per hour of
labor,” Dr. Warren says. “He should have
a business large enough fully to employ all
his time and that of his labor. He must
get more bushels of grain and more pounds
of milk per hour of labor. The chief ways
of doing this are by obtaining more milk
per cow, higher crop yields per acre, and
by using labor more efficiently.
“More care in using good seed, attention
to disease control, and the like are essential.
Such changes mean more production per
man, but mean fewer men and reduction in
total agricultural production. How much
induction occurs depends on how many acres
are thrown out of use or into lower classes
of use. Labor-saving plans arc often more
important than machinery.
“Since the primary difficulty at the pre-
sent ; time is the discrepancy between pro-
ducers’ prices and consumers’ prices,
this is particularly severe on agriculture.
Most manufacturers buy at wholesale prices
which are low- and sell at wholesale prices
which are also low. But, in general, agri-
culture buys at retail prices which are high
and sells at wholesale prices which are low.
“It is particularly important that farmers
attempt to get nearer to consumers before
they sell and that they reach nearer to
wholesalers in their buying. Some farmers
are so near cities that they can truck their
products to the city, but for most farmers
the feasible,way of doing these two things is
Through . associations.”
THE MACHINE.
A study of the M'cKa’y-Massey Harris ex-
hibit at the Melbourne Show makes it plain
that the conflict between .’ the stripper type
of harvester and the header type continues.
In the Mallee country—in fact, wherever
harvesting conditions are on the rough side
arid crops are not very heavy and stand
up well at harvest time—the stripper is the
favorite. Its construction is very simple, its
moving and wearing parts are few, its
draught is comparatively light; as a result
it is sold at a lower price than the other
type.
In the districts of greater rainfall, where
crops arc tall and heavy, the header har-
vester is more in demand. It has great
capacity for baking in dense masses of
tangled crop, also crop that is infested with
heavy thistle or other weed growths, and it
has frequently succeeded in rescuing up to
110 p.c. of the grain from crops that have
been laid flat on the ground by rain and
wind storms. The Sunshine machines of
both these types are made in Gft., Bft. and
10 ft. sizes, with ground-wheel-drive for
horse draught. The tendency of those who
go in for grain-growing on a big scale is
to choose the largest size available.
A successful development of recent years
is the application of engine pow'er to the
header harvesters to relieve the horses of
much of the work. A four-cylinder petrol
engine, mounted on the forecarriage of the
machine, provides the power to drive the
cutting, gathering, thrashing, winnowing and
bagging devices, so - that the ,hor,ses are
merely required to pull the machine through
the crop ; for this three horses usually suffice.
This is a handy team to drive and to look
after, and there is the advantage that the
machine does its work equally well, whether
the horses travel fast or slew. The advan-
tages of the engine-functioned machines have
been demonstrated on the M.T.A. ricefields.
Rice is harvested in June or July, and in
past years the paddocks were in a boggy
state at harvest time, so that the ground-
wheel-drive machines could not work. The
machines with auxiliary engines have been
pulled through the mud by large teams of
bullocks, and have harvested the grain in
a satisfactory manner. .
Familiar Sunshine types of seeding and
tilling implements make a brave display, and
several novelties arc. added. A single-furrow
plough, as used in French vineyards, has its
beam set aw T ry so that it may cultivate 1 close
to the vines. Another plough designed to
open trenches for the burying of vine prim-
ings catches the eye; it has a double-sided
share and mouldboard, and makes a very
neat trench at one passage. And there are
the increasingly popular multi-blade pas-
ture-dressing harrows ; -they are now provided
in a size that is very easy work for two
horses. > And for the first time horse hay-
rakes made at the Sunshine works are ex-
hibited in Bft. and 9ft. sizes.
Another quite new exhibit is a one-liorse
drill for dropping fertiliser, particularly in
vineyards. It has a vibratory action which
is very positive. Also making its debut is
a cute fertiliser dropper for top-dressing
pasture lands, very light in draught. A
newly-designed petrol engine for driving
separators, etc., is in the 2-h.p. size. A
celery hiller is another useful implement
staged for the first time, as is also a double-
gang tandem-disc harrow, particularly suit-
able for sugar-plantation work. Altogether,
there are more new* items at the Sunshine
display than in any previous year. In the
inventing and making of farm implements
and machinery Australians are second to
none, and they go from one victory to
another.
CUTTING CANE-HARVESTING COSTS.
“Ratoon”: Years ago Ralph Falkiner, of
Australia, invented a sugar-cane harvester.
He demonstrated that it would do its job,
and trials suggested that it could be evolved
into something very much better ; but, perhaps
because “the industry is the sport of poli-
tics,” as has been very truly said, the inventor
received no encouragement from the sugar-
growing interests. Now that a reduction of
Id. per pound in the retail price lias, with
great politeness, been enforced, some of those
who gave this Australian inventor the cold
shoulder may regret it.
Falkiner took his machine to Cuba and
Florida, where sugar-growers came at it
with enthusiasm. Improvements have been
made, season by season, until in their last
year’s run the machines on one Florida
estate alone cut and prepared for milling
over 90,000 tons of cane. The great diffi-
culty with the earlier types was that accu-
rate topping of cut canes —removing the
superfluous head-tassel—was difficult. The
new Falkiner machines solve this difficulty
by cutting the cane as it is harvested into
short lengths and passing these through a
cylinder, when a current of air carries awav
(Continued on next page.)


Smooth, easy fit
Only calf, kid or patent leather of
certified top quality is used for the
upper of this smart Abbey shoe. Its
sole leather is selected for tough-
ness and flexibility. . . . guaranteed
for maximum hard wear. The shoe
is round-toed and comfortable. . . .
built on an exclusive Abbey last
that accommodates every curve of
the foot. It is easy-fitting from the
start. . . .you can feel the differ-
ence !
ORDER BY POST
Every half size is available in three
fittings—narrow, medium and wide.
That guarantees made-to-measure
comfort. Specify width, and order,
also, the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin), or a complete cleaning
outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf .
Glace Kid
Black Box Calf . .
Patent Leather
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY; BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 299
5O-
/
.... 47/6
57/6
INVINCIBLE
Marine Motors
BENZINE - KEROSENE - CRUDE OIL
20 MODELS ; 3 TO 160 H P.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS LIMITED
53 NORTH GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W
AND AT CHICAGO. ILLINOIS.
Vs
MADE IN
ENGLAND
e
•Swan’ Pens Black and Coloured from 20/-,
•Swan’ Minors from 15/-, ' Blackbird' Pens
from 10/-, ’Swan’ Ink from 6d. per bottle.
SWAN
W PENS
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post frit.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, Condon, W.l.
Factories: London & Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Dep&
' PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
"The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from "The Bulletin” Office,
all States.
BRITAIN-MaKe Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman” —8:} hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
AVOID INEVITABLE
Arepair CHARGES
due to the use of
poor
insisting gour motor
car must be serviced
vA hg Me modern
Alemite
ressure Lubrication Systems
*\ f ■ V
, A
>
THE useful life of any engine is dependent on intelligent
lubrication. "ALEMITE”— don’t "grease”- every five hun-
dred miles, and watch your cars and lorries thank you in better
performance and lower charges! Fresh ALEMITE specialized
lubricants forced to bearings—carrying away worn-out lubri-
cants with grit, abrasives and other wastes.
A positive solvent of carbon deposits, cleaning cylinder heads
and valves by a new process which eliminates tedious and costly
mechanical methods. Quicker engine response and greater mile-
age to the gallon always follow the use of CARBO-SOLVE. If
your Service Station lacks ALEMITE, write to the following
for particulars: K-Aust. 8-32
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
654 George Street, Sydney, N. S.W.
Or to the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES. Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MAOHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St.. Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
ALEMITE CORPORATION
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
Chicago, U. S. A.
leaves, tops and trash. A special device
pushes the standing cane to an angle which
permits the cutters to cut not only the
leaning canes but those flat on the ground.
All are gathered into the harvester, and cut
into the necessary milling lengths, while the
rubbish is eliminated.
Under average conditions the Falkiner
machine cuts and delivers ready for milling
20 tons of cane per hour. Only three men,
a driver for the harvester and a man and
assistant for the tractor, are needed. The
latest type of machine is self-contained and
is operated by a Diesel engine, which should
reduce running costs by two-thirds. What
these costs are the report does not state,
but they should be below those of hand-cut-
ting. On the South Johnstone, one of the
most prolific and cheaply-worked fields in
North Queensland, each man of the several
gangs employed cut 3.9 tons per day on
recent figures, and each man in a gang, in-
cluding the cook, who did not go into the
field at all, averaged a daily wage of.£l
12s. 2d. To suppose that the mechanical
harvester, with its 20 tons per day and its
personnel of three, would be the more costly
proposition seems preposterous.
SODIUM CHLORATE FOR WEEDS.
The N.S.W. Department of Agriculture is
against using it in the dry state except on
patches of a few square feet. For mosi:
weeds, particularly deep-rooting ones, a 10
per cent, solution is required, lib. in lgal.
of water; but many weeds can be destroyed
with even as weak a dilution as 1 per cent.
One hundred gallons of solution is usually
sufficient to treat 1 acre of weed growth;
with weeds that make heavy growth the
quantity should be increased to aboiit Isogal.
All the leaves of the weeds should be well
moistened with the solution. As the. spray
is more effective and economical in the
form of a mist, spraying machines on the
compressed-air principle are the most suit-
able. A knapsack sprayer of 2 to 5 gallons
capacity will serve for small patches; a
barrel sprayer mounted on a waggon or
truck is more convenient for larger areas.
For destruction of deep-rooting weeds it
is generally necessary to make two spray-
ings, any new growth being sprayed
about six to eight weeks after the first
spraying. Unlike that of many other weedi-
cides, the action of sodium chlorate is very
slow; at first comparatively little effect is
noticed, but tlie plants gradually wither, the
roots become exhausted, and finally the
whole plant dies. Sprayed areas should be
left undisturbed for three months after
spraying. The best time for spraying weeds
is, as a rule, when they are in full bloom,
and the action of sodium chlorate is more
rapid when the air is moist.
WHY KILL OFF LAYERS?
“Minorca”: The practice of replacing the
entire flock each year is not. confined to
W.A. Wostralian farmers maintain as high
a percentage of pullets as possible. Two cases
may be quoted. On one farm last year 20,<XM>
chicks were raised, at least 8000 of which
would be pullets. Another contains only
pullets, the owners at present reporting an
80 per cent, yield per day. And so on.
“Jack Point” (B. 24/8/’B2) says few
Australian poultry-farmers would admit a
decrease of 37 per cent, between first- and
second-year production. I think the figure
would not be exaggerated. Nevertheless, that
fact does not recommend replacing the whole,
flock. There is bound to be a fair percentage
of poor birds, which would bring down the
average. The difference would not be s.o
marked amongst the better layers, and conse-
quently may not warrant the expense and
trouble of rearing a large number of chicks
each year.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Docs the N.S.W. Egg Marketing
Board grade eggs by hand? (2) Can eggs
he graded by machine? (3) Daily capacity
per operator (a) by hand (b) by machine?
—2026.
(1) Yes. (2) In the board’s experience,
hand-grading is the only reliable method.
(3) A machine costing about £32.1 is re-
puted to handle 43,000 eggs daily. Can’t say
bow many attendants it requires. The daily
capacity of the hand-operator is about 5000.
(1) Can vanilla be propagated by seed?’
(2) What quantity will an acre produce
when in full bearing? (3) Where is there
a market for vanilla, and what is the price
per pound? (4) Can cocoa be grown in
Australia ? —IS27.
(1) No, it is propagated by cuttings. (2)
Can’t give any Australian estimate. Trials
were undertaken in the Cairns district some
years ago, but the enterprise proved unpro-
fitable and was abandoned. (3) Robert
Harper and Co., Melbourne, import small
quantities. The price paid per pound is not
known. (4) Cocoa requires moist, humid
conditions for its econdihic production.
Experiments carried out in North Queens-
land were not encouraging. It was found
that this tree is subject to considerable
damage by borers.
7 am a young Englishman farming' in
N.S.W. ' and doing fairly well despite the
depression. A brother and a eon sin, at
present ■in Canada, wish to join me. Can
they be brought here under any of the
assisted immigration schemes?- —2052.
No; the only persons who are at present
eligible for assisted passages to N.S.W. are
the wives and children under 14 years of
age of men in regular employment here.
And only persons who' arrived in Australia
prior t 0 January 1, 1930, are eligible to
effect nominations. No assisted passages
are available from Canada.
How to pickle olives? —1816.
Wipe perfectly ripe olives, pack them into
wide-mouthed jars, and pour on the follow-
ing mixture, completely covering the fruit:
To 1 gallon water add jib. salt, j wineglass
acetic acid, j wineglass port, wine and 2
tablespoons dried chillies. Cover well and
h ave for three weeks. To pickle green
olives, soak the young fruit for 12 hours in
lime-water, then in clean water for seven
days, changing the water daily; finally pickle
them in strong brine, seasoned with cloves
or cinnamon.
(1) What h.p. would ho obtained hi)
working a small water-turbine from a 2 in.
pipe, 3500//. long, with a fall of 190 ft.':
(2) Under the same conditions, hut with a
Sin. pipe ?—1974.
(1) Allowing for an efficiency of 70 p.e.,
about: a third of one h.p. (21 Eight-tenths
of a h.p. at the same efficiency.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“McNoon”: Instead of using ordinary rope
for leg ropes in the milking-slied, use green-
hide ones. They don’t; absorb filthy moisture
and become swollen and soggy as do ordinary
ropes.
“Dave” : A piece of old motor inner-tube
makes an excellent stocking for keeping in
place bandages on the sore legs of animals,
and peels off readily when changing is re-
quired. Cut the tube to size and shape of
leg and join with ordinary rubber solution,
using «. quarter of an inch overlap. That
gives sufficient tightness without, discomfort.
Sticks and other usual bush obstacles • will
not prevail against the rubber.
“Liss”: “Aldridge” (B. 31/8/’32) is right;
a butcher’s steel is not; suitable for sharpen-
ing lamb-marking knives on, owing to the
resulting saw-like edge. Use a strop, made
this way: Get a tanned ’roo-tail skin, split
it in half from end lo.end, and mount each
half on a smooth board by means of glue,
such as is used on shearing grinders, keep-
ing the flesh side to the board. This leather
has the texture of the canvas side of an
ordinary leather razor strop, and yet is greasy.
Tn fact, it makes great razor .strops, wetted
thoroughly, folded down the middle from end
to end (what was hair side out), and left
pressed under some weight until dry. Shape
one end as a handle and sew a swivel hook
from some old strop to the other.
“Noel R.”: Testing your horse’s, homing
instinct by giving him his head now and
again is all right (B. 7/9/’32), but beware
how you rely on him through timber after
dark. On a pitch-black night many a man
has been cracked startlingly out of the
saddle by a low limb under which his nag
has passed.
“Sylvester”: In erecting wire-netting use
a No'. 10 plain wire on the bottom and a
barb on top. Run the wire out flat along
the fence, and, pulling it slightly, fasten it
to the bottom wire. Stand it up and go
through the same process on top, and you
will get a nice even fence without much
trouble.
“Thorley”: Harness-mending jobs that
cannot be done with a rivet and are hardly
possible by sewing can be accomplished with
heavy binding wire, such as is used to secure
boxes of goods. Make two holes with an awl
about fin. apart. Shape a piece of wire like
a staple, not too long. Drive home on the
end of a stout piece of pine. Turn upside
down, shorten each end to about jin., and
clinch, driving the tips into the leather..
“Dimon”: Many a good . garden rake, is
made with wood and bits of fencing-wire.
Take a piece of 2in. by 1-jin. pine, about
18in. long, and bore small holes through the
narrow sides, 2in. apart: cut a, piece of
stout wire into 4jin. lengths, point. on e end
of each and burr or flatten the other, and
drive them through the holes. The handle
may .be a round stick, or an old broom
handle. For this bore an inch hole through
the centre of the flat side of the rake.
Then run a light wire through the handle,
9in. above the connection, and through each
end of the rake.
“J.A.S.”: A few giant sunflower seeds
planted now will provide shelter in the
poultry yards from the hot summer sun.
And the seeds, used judiciously, may form
a valuable addition to the ration.
“Dimon”: The best roofing for a fowl
or chicken house, whether big or small, is
hardwood weatherboards. Wood is cooler
in summer and warmer in winter than
iron, and weatherboards are quicker to put
on than shingles. No battens are required
as with other roofing, the boards being
nailed across the rafters. Given about 2in.
lap and a thin coat of paint, they will last
longer than galvanised iron.
“O. W. Waireki”: A neat handle for a
benzine-tin can be made from a round piece
of wood, about fin. thick. Out off and
shape to fit just inside the tin from corner
to corner; then drive a lead-headed nail
through from each eud to make the stick
secure.
“Yam” : If' you have to take your drink-
ing water or other liquid refreshment to the
field in a can, to keep it cool on a hot day
put the lid on upside down and partly fill
it with water.
“Willeroo”: To make a cheap paint for
outside use, boil a pound of rice in about
three gallons of water till the grain is soft,
strain off and stir enough air-slaked lime
into the liquid to make a thick mixture,
then add a quart of raw linseed oil. To
avoid lumps, put. the lime through a flour-
sieve before mixing. The rice can be used
for the table pr fed to fowls.
“G.J.A.S.”: When cutting chaff, cut the
haybands at the knot. When the hand is
full, tie roughly and throw aside. In wet
weather these can be made into neck ropes
and handy doormats. If you have a home-
made rope spinner (simple directions for
making one are given in. “Handy Hints.”
issued by The Bulletin ), tie bands together
end to end to any length ' required and put
through spinner. The rope can be made any
thickness by adding more strands. Cut off
exposed knots from completed rope with an old
pair of shears, then coil round and round
evenly and sew together with bag needle,
leaving ornamental loops towards the edges ,
and you’ve got useful mats that will last for
years.
“O. W. Waireki": There’s nothing like
the blade from an old pair of hand shears
for paring a thick slasher blade. Fix the
slasher firmly in a vyce before attempting
to shave it to the required thinness.
“McNoon” : . “Sativa” (B. 7/9/’,32) gives
bad advice in advocating a shower dip for
vermin-infested sheep. It is no good, be-
cause the spray fails 1o reach the vital un-
derneath parts; that is why the Vic. Sheep
Dipping Act stipulates that all sheep and
lambs must be immersed in an approved dip.
There should he no necessity to dip heavy-
in-lamb ewes if the work has been done soon
after shearing, as it should be. I have
assisted to dip many thousands of sheep
and lambs in the “swim” dip, with n 0 ill
effects. 1 ,


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must bo confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Boy (18), N.S.W., able to keep books, milk and
handle horses, wants job on station. Refs. —2040.
Englishman (35), at present in M.L., 174 years’
exp.' with leading Liverpool cotton brokers, wants
employment in Australian cotton trade. —2019.
Man (45), Vic., wants employment as cook, house-
man, useful or on station, or anywhere. Refs.—2oBo.
Geologist who studied formation of the Hanging
Rock, near Woodend, is asked to communicate. —2081.
To buy copy of 11. G. Wells’s report of the Slavin-
Jackson fight. (Inquirer has probably confused
Wells with A. G. (“Smiler”) Hales.) —2110.
To get in touch with descendants of Frank Dawson
Mercer, son of Thomas Warren Mercer, Vicar of
Northallerton, Yorks, who emigrated to Australia
and died here in 1850. —2109.
Experienced prospector wants employment testing
Kangaroo Island for gold and other minerals.—2oB6.
To buy Vol. 2, “After Many Days,” by Cuthbert
Featherstonhaugh.— r 2los.
Copy of journal containing biography of Axel
Muntlie, author of “The Story of San Michele.”
—2005.
Copy of journal containing a story entitled “A
Modern Go-Getter” containing the phrase “Horns,
hoofs and tail feathers.” —1954.
Words of verses commencing “I sat upon a hollow
log, the wind it hollow b1ew.”—2024.
Name and words of a French lullaby beginning
with the words “Frere Jacques, frere Jacques,
dormez-vous.” —2033.
Information Sought.
What type of wireless receiver would be
suitable for use in a motor caravan in. which
I intend to travel throughout Northern N. S.
Wales for about six months early next year?
—2lOO.
Such a receiver would require to be sensi-
tive, compact and economical on “B” battery
current. If reception is only required when
the caravan is not moving and after sunset,
almost any type of six-valve receiver of
repute would be suitable, using an inside
aerial and earthing the receiver to the ear
chassis. If reception is required when the
caravan is in motion, the problem becomes
more difficult, as precaution must be taken
to eliminate induction from the spark plugs,
etc. Special motor-car receivers are designed
for this class of work. In any case, the
filament current may be supplied from the
car accumulator through a suitable resist-
ance.
What body of Australian troops was the
last to leave Gallipoli? —2os6.
According to the orders for evacuation, the
front line at Russell’s Top, held by the 20th
Battalion (2nd Australian Division), was
to be the last sector abandoned. The final
party of this battalion left the line at 3.14
a.m. on Doc. 20, 1915.
(D Are there any restrictions on the
amount of money a, person leaving Australia
for a holiday in Britain may take with him
or remit to London? (2) Have there been
any such restrictions? —l9BB.
'(1) No. (2) Yes. During the last
four years the banks have placed restric-
tions on remittances to London for travel-
lers’ requirements as well as for trade
purposes.
Where can I learn etching in Sydney and
what arc, the fees? —2046.
From Sydney Technical College, the Syd-
ney Long School of Etching, or from various
individual teachers. Technical College fees
are three guineas a year, the whole year
payable in advance; other teachers generally
charge three guineas a term.
(1) How arc appointments made to the
Federal “Hansard” staff? (2) Qualifica-
tions? (3) Commencing salary? —2o6o.
(1) Vacancies are advertised. (2) To
succeed, an .applicant must he an expert
.shorthand writer with a good knowledge of
Australian conditions and politics and
literary dexterity. Newspaper experience is
an asset. (3) £528 per annum.
Is it too late now for an ex-member of
the A.I.F. who has been abroad since the
war, and who has just returned, to acquire
a war-service home? Must he be able to
put up a certain amount of the purchase
price ? —2063.
There is no restriction as to the date of
lodgment of an application. A deposit is re-
quired, and the applicant should state the
maximum amount lie is prepared to lodge in
connection with the assistance applied for.
No funds are at present available, but
applications for assistance are listed for con-
sideration in order of priority of lodgment.
(1) Why do apparently, healthy and unre-
lated parent lore-birds produce “runners”
—fledglings deficient in tail and wing
feathers, and unable to fly? (2) Any means
of prevention? (3) Any method of treat-
ing runners to enable them to grow feathers
and fly?— l96o.
(1) Runners are supposed to come from
related birds. It is not proved that unre-
lated birds produce them. (2) None, save
making sure that you do not get related
birds. (3) Cod-liver oil mixed with the food
and plenty of sunlight may improve them.
In a season's club play Jones takes 28
wickets for 60 runs; Smith also 28 for 60.
In the last game of the season Smith gets
1 wicket for 27 and Jones 4 wickets for 36.
Their averages are the same for the season
—3 in each case. Wliat's the catch? —1998.
No catch. The averages are correct. If
Smith in that last game had taken 3
wickets for 27, the same average, for the
match, as . Jones, ho would have wound up
the season with the better average.
(1) Any, flolf links on Norfolk Island?
(2) Any tennis? (8) What kind of fishing?
(4) What kind of clothes is usually worn?
(5) Is there any occasion for evening dress
on board the boat, or at the island? (b)
Accommodation for visitors? —IJO9.
(1) There is a nine-hole course available
to visitors, Is. for 18 holes. (2) No public
courts, but visitors are generally made wel-
come on private courts, and it is antici-
pated that in the near future there will be
a hard court available to the public.
In calm weather excellent fishing is available
from small boats which visit the fishing
grounds off the island, and at other times
rock fishing is available. (4) and (o)
During the cold months warm clothing
should be brought, from knock-about clothes
to evening-dress wear for both ladies and
gentlemen. During the warm summer
months lighter clothing is, of course, usually
worn. Passengers do not usually dress tor
dinner on board the Morinda, although it
is advisable to take a dinner suit, as this
is likely to be required on the island, (b)
There are a number of boarding houses.
Particulars of a car or truck that will
run both on the railway and the road? I
understand' one was tested this year in-
ti out h, Africa, —1859.
The only vehicle we know of designed to
operate either on rails or on the road is a
petrol-driven motor-coach designed by .T.
Shearman, road motor engineer for the
London, Midland and Scottish Railway.
The coach has two sets of wheels —one for
use on rails and one for use on the road.
It has been reported that the change-over
from rail to road can be effected in under
five minutes, the road wheels being mounted
on an eccentric that can be . lowered or
raised as desired. The vehicle is known as
a Ro-railer, and two were placed in com-
mission on the London, Midland and Scottish
Railway early in 1931.
A, B, C are playing crib. A plays 29, 30
and 31. How many points should lie score?
—l6Ol. , ,
If he played to 29 with some card other
than an ace, that counts one point. H'is 30
is evidently made with an ace. Again one
point. The third ace makes 31, and pair—
-2 points for 31, 2 points for pair. Six
points in all.
Did the late Peter Jackson, and James J.
Jeffries ever meet in the ring? —2oo4.
Yes. Tliev fought at San Francisco on
March 22, 1898, and Jeffries stopped Jackson
(who was looked on as an Australian, although
born at St. Croix in the West Indies) in
three rounds. This was Jackson’s last fight.
He returned to Roma (Q.), where death
overtook him on July 13, 1901.
Who was Mother Ship ton? —1981.
Probably a mythical character. She is
first mentioned in 1641 as having foretold
the death of Wolsey, and she is also said
to have predicted the Fire of London in
1666, and the civil wars. Baker, who edited
her “prophecies” (1797), states that she
was bom in 1488 at Knaresborough, Eng-
land. and lived for over 70 years, having
married Tony Shipton, a builder, in 1512.
Harrison’s “Mother Shipton Investigated
will tell you more about her.
(1) In modern talking-picture equipment
are gramophone records used for reproduc-
ing the sound? If not; what method is em-
ployed? (2) At what speed does the film
travel through the projector? —2ll6.
(1) Two processes are employed. Sound
on disc (records) and sound on film. The
former is rarely used now owing to greater
difficulties in synchronising. In the sound
on film method, the sound is recorded on
the side of the film in the form of bands
of various degrees of opacity. A thin pencil
of light is focused on this sound track,
behind which is placed a photo-electric cell,
an instrument for converting light varia-
tions into similar electrical variations.
These are amplified by a valve amplifier and
reproduced by a loud-speaker located behind
the screen. (2) Ninety feet per minute.
(1) I wish to make an enlargement twice
the size of the original, using a s \in. focal
length lens. At what distance must I place
the enlargement from the lens? (2) Method
of calculating? (3) Distance between nega-
tive and lens? (4) Method of calculating?
—2115.
(1) Fifteen and three-quarter inches. (2)
Add 1 to the number of times of enlarge-
ment and multiply the result by the focal
length of the lens in inches. In your ex-
ample, add 1 to 2, equals 3. This number
multiplied by 5j equals 15fin. (3). Seven
and seven-eighth inches. (4) Divide the
distance between the lens and the enlarge-
ment by the number of times of enlarge-
ment, or 15f divided by 2 equals 7fin.
(1) When were stamps first issued in the
island of Aitutaki? (2) Particulars of first
issue? (3) Are these stamps of any value?
—2130.
(1) Special stamps were first authorised
for issue on June 2, 1903, and the first con-
signment was placed on sale in the island
on the 29th of that month. Prior to that
date, the Cook Island stamps were used.
(2) The M.L. pictorial issue was employed,
overprinted “Aitutaki” and, underneath, the
native equivalent of the value. Six values
were employed from Id. to Is. (3) These
stamps are rarer used than unused, but none
are catalogued over fl. There is a variety
in the 2|d. and Is. values wherein the full-
stop is omitted after the this
being catalogued at from 275. 6d. to 955.
What conditions arc imposed upon a person
who wishes to make a copy of a picture in
the N.S.W. National Art Gall cry?— 2os7.
The copyist must prove to the Director, by
submitting specimens of work, that he or she
is capable of doing a decent copy, and the
copy must not be of the same size as the
picture copied.
A mirror which has been stored for two
years shows smudges at certain angles. Back
and face appear in good order. Can the
smudges he erased?— lo2l.
It may be a surface tarnisli, removable
by rubbing with a ball of very soft paper
slightly damped with methylated spirits, then
with a duster on which has been sprinkled a
little whiting, and finally with soft crumpled
paper or dry chamois leather. If this
doesn’t work re-silvering is the only remedy.
How to stain white pine kitchen furniture
a dark oak (flat surface ) f —1822.
The easiest arid cheapest way is to buy
a bo'ttle of oak stain from a paint store and
brush it on, then polish with beeswax and
turpentine. To make your own mixture, place
some methylated spirits in a tin. and add
small quantities of Bismarck brown and
gamboge alternately until the shade is right,
test it on a piece of spare board, or under-
neath the table out of sight.
If a black and white horse is termed pie-
bald, what, is the correct way to describe a
bay and white, or othe'i' mixed, color? —2076.
According to Webster, piebald means of
different colors, properly two, especially
black and white, though a horse having
spots and patches of other colors can be
termed a piebald.
Recent cable messages in the newspapers
refer to “Mrs. Mollison, nee Amy Johnson."
As “ndc ” is supposed to mean born, and chil-
dren are not given Christian names until they
are baptised, isn’t there something wrong
with the usage? —2o79.
Use of the term probably dates from a
period long before baptism was a custom.
As you point out, the usage is really incor-
rect! but everyone understands what is
meant, and it is the only short way of indi-
cating the maiden family name of a married
woman.
How does the printing of . bandana hand-
kerchiefs differ from other printing?- —2139.
The bandanas are dyed a uniform color
and then arranged in layers on the bed of
a press. The bed is then forced against a
horizontal frame in which holes have been
drilled. Liquid chlorine is forced through
the holes, penetrating the material below.
This removes the color as it descends, leav-
ing spots which correspond with the drilled
plate. In this way the pattern is bleached
out. whereas in most patterned fabrics the
colored portion is printed on.
How is bronze casting done? —2144.
Usually by the “cire perdue” or waste-wax
method. A mould is made of the figure or
group of figures, usually a piece mould which
can be removed from the original without
injuring it. This mould is given a coating
of wax equal in thickness to that required
for the bronze. The mould is then fastened
together firmly. and a core or inner mould
constructed inside of the wax. This core is
held in position with bars or pins of
bronze passing from one mould into the
other. Heat is applied to melt out the wax,
which will be rather less than w T hen put in,
as .some is absorbed by the mould. Into
the space left between the core and the outer
mould the molten bronze is poured and
allowed to cool. The moulds are then re-
moved and the metal surfaces finished with
chisels and files.
What is the pochoir process of reproduc-
ing drawings, and how is it worked?— 2ls3.
It is a method of reproducing water-color
or wash drawings in color by the use _of
stencils. A faint reproduction of the origi-
nal is made to the required size in mono-
chrome by collotype, photogravure or offset.
Prints of this are used to make the pochoir
proper, using one for each color in the origi-
nal. The parts to be cut out are traced
on each sheet. These prepared sheets are
placed on a sheet of thin zinc or copper,
which is cut through with a steel point,
along the traced lines, forming a stencil.
Gaps left in the print by tendons which it js
necessary to retain to keep complicated parts
of the pattern together are filled up after-
wards by super-imposing a second pochoir
correcting the first. The colors employed
are usually in paste form, and are applied
with large round hogs’ hair bushes. If suc-
cessful, the result is such that it is difficult
to tell the print from an original water-
color.
What was the ,Fashoda incident? —2105.
Fashoda (renamed Ivodok in 1904) is a
trading station on the west bank of the
Upper Nile, in Egyptian Sudan, 459 miles
south by river of Khartoum. The Egyptians
established a military post there in 1865.
In 1883-84 the post fell into the hands of
the Mahdists. In 1898 the French com-
mandant, Marchand, with a force from the
Congo, hoisted the French flag there. Kit-
chener, having just captured Khartoum, re-
hoisted the British and Egyptian flags at
Fashoda and asked Marchand to withdraw.
The latter refused, and the matter was re-
ferred to London and Paris. The French
protested that the Egyptian occupation of
the Sudan had been suspended by the
Mahdist domination and that it was open
to them to make a settlement on the Nile.
For a while the tension between the two
countries was extreme, but in Dec. of the
same year France ordered the withdrawal
of the Marchand expedition.
(1) What was the “St,. Valentine's Day
Massacre ” in Chicago? Were the murderers
caught? (2) Books on Chicago gangsters?
—2135. ,
(1) Seven members of a bootlegging mid
racketeering gang, of which George (“Bugs”)
Moran was the leader, wer e lined up in a
garage in North Clarke-street. Chicago, and
killed by machine-gun fire on St.. Valentine’s
Day (February 13), 1929. A 1 Capone’s
gunmen were suspected, but were never
brought to justice. “Bugs” Moran and
two others were the only members of the
Moran gang who escaped. (2) “Chicago
Surrenders,” by Sullivan; and “A 1 Capone,”
by Pasley.
How to prepare colors for showcards and
small posters? —1337.
Fine white shellac, dissolved in methy-
lated spirits, in the proportions of about 4oz.
to 1 pint, is mixed with ground color for
glossy effects. Ready-made colors, glossy or
flat, will be found more satisfactory than
home-made.
Does Anybody Know?
What is the Rarey method of breaking-in
and quietening horses?—2los.
Brief Answers.
L.N.: A person can join the French
Foreign Legion only by presenting himself at a
recruiting depot in France... .S.H.A.: Get a copy
of the regulations under the N.S.W. Pure Food Act
from the Government Printer, Sydney; Is. 9d. plus
postage.... W. 8.: Under N.S.W. law it is illegal to
make gunpowder save in a licensed factory. .. .
E.H.M.: Not separately given in trade returns.
. ...E.M.: (1) 3756 gallons. (2) Find the capaeity
of the tank in cubic feet by multiplying half the
width, squared, by 3.14 and the product by the
height; or 4 x 4 x 3.14 x 12 equals 602.88 cubic
feet. To convert to gallons, multiply by 6.23, equals
3756 gallons. (3) A tank whose sides measured
8.44 feet (18ft. sjin.) C.N.: The exhibition of
an article, priced, in a shop window cannot be
construed into an offer to sell an unlimited number
of similar articles or goods at the same price, but
is confined to the particular article offered in the
window. The customer can demand no more than
is thus offered... .W.J.T.: (1) No. (2) 15s. per
week. (3) She should write to the Widows’ Pensions
Department, giving particulars of her present posi-
tion... .J.D.C.: Waratahs should be pruned at or
just after flowering time.... V.M.K.: Named by the
explorer, C. A. Burrows, in 1896, after one of the
earliest settlers in the Kimberley district... .W. 8.:
From RCA Photophone, 221 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
. ...R.H.F.: Both types are obtainable from H. P.
Gregory and Co., 74 Clarence-street, Sydney....
G.C.: (1), and (2) The postage on each is Id. (3)
No. ...A.F.: Thos. E. Spencer’s “How McDougall
Topped the Score” will be found in “The ‘Bulletin’
Reciter”... .L.S.: Write Immigration Dept., corner
George-street North and Argyle-street, Sydney....
T.E.W.: Under the N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation
Act a salesman on commission is deemed to be a
worker in the employment of the person by whom
such commission is payable... .F.J.: Full particulars
may be obtained from the Registrar-General’s Dept.,
Queen-street, Melbourne... .C.R.: Immerse the stone
in a glass of water. If it is a diamond, its facets
will show clearly; if it is something else its facets
will be almost indistinguishable. .. .J.M.W,: (1) If
you are a non-resident you could not acquire land.
(2) No possibility of an outsider obtaining work on
the island R.T.: The N.S.W. State Conservatoriom
of Music, Macquarie-street, Sydney, gives tuition in
organ playing. Details on application.... H. 8.: No,
wages and working conditions are matters for
arrangement with employers... .G.D.: Apply to the
Officer-in-Charge of the nearest police station; fee
10s R.M.S.: Literature on the manufacture of
perfume from Australian wildflowers may bo obtained
from the Technological Museum, Harris-street, Sydney.
... .M.T.: Goldfinches are generally fed on Hungarian
millet and canary-seed mixed... .C.K.: Under Crown
Lands ordinances the Cov.-Gen. may grant to any
aboriginal or the descendant of any aboriginal a
160-acre lease in North or Central Australia, but
there is no record of a lease having been granted.
. ...M.F.: (1) Nutfoods, Ltd., 388 Spencer-street,
and G. A. Drake, 438 Elizabeth-street, are
Melbourne purchasers of peanuts at about sjd. per
pound. (2) 27 to 35 pounds of unshelled nuts to
an acre... .W.J.C.: Try Govt. Nursery, Dubbo,
N.S.W J.H.T.: A'es... .E. 8.: Latest return avail-
able is one showing that between April 28, 1930
(commencement of fund), and dune 30, 1931,
£702,640 was collected. No record of the amount
paid by various branches of the community is avail-
able... .C.D.: Use ordinary lime mortar, made with
quicklime and sand... .S.C.C.: Write Sidney Williams
and Co. Constitution-road, Dulwich Hi 11... .W.R.P.:
See “The Aust. and N.Z. Writers’ and Artists’ Year-
Book”. ... V. 0.: Between £lOOO and £1250.
Further information obtainable from R. H. Crawford,
Melbourne-street, South Brisbane... .H.C.: (1) No
fees are paid. The agent collects a commission when
a sale is made. (2) He brings the work under the
notice of publishers. (3) Tes. (4) Yes. (5)
Yes, so far as the overseas market is concerned....
S.G.: The small saving of time and expense is not
worth the loss of appearance. Better have it. done
in the usual manner... ,C.A.: (1) and (2) The
mixtures are unusual, and we cannot ascertain with-
out laboratory experiments. Try small quantities in
narrow glass phials and watch results. (3) Try
carbolic acid... .1.V.8.: (1) Yes. (2) £45. (3)
The Foster Knitting Machine Co., 26 Jamieson-street,
Sydney, can supply further particulars... .A.A.8.:
I’earse’s “Sheep, Farm and Station Management”
(17s. 6d.) and “The Farmers’ Handbook” (10s. 6d.).
. ...H.D.K.: Mineral production, 1931, £12,336,000;
wool production, 1931-32, £35,514,000 ; wheat pro-
duction, 1931-32, £30,344,000; sugar production,
1931-32, £10,174,000. All are estimates... .D.S.H.:
Of the papers read in astronomy, physics and
chemistry, only one or two will be printed in the
volume of proceedings. The other papers will very
probably be contributed to various scientific journals
by the authors. Volume of proceedings, when issued,
obtainable at the office, 159 Gloucester-street, Sydney.
Price, £l. .. .R.S.H.: (1) Smith and Bassett, 67
Parramatta-road, Camperdown, Sydney, will quote
for all the materials. (2) After making the draw-
ing, take a leather modelling tool and press down
the surface inside the outlines of the drawing to be
covered with paint. Then paint with a stiff brush,
press the paint well in and use a little tapestry oil
as you go G.F.W.: (1) First introduced into
Europe in the twelfth century, but they were not
in general use much before the fifteenth. They
were generally accepted in England in the seventeenth
century. (2) Except for 1, 9 and the cipher 0, they
show little trace of their Arabic ancestry... .G.W.:
London Book Co., 228 Pitt-street, Sydney.... J.R.:
Write to Sister-in-Charge, Foundling Home, Broad-
meadows, Vic.; Matron, the Foundling Hospital and
Infants’ Home, Berry-street, East Melbourne, or Matron,
Presbyterian Babies’ Homes, Lansdowne-street, East
Melbourne... .E.W.: Preparation of colored lime-
washes is a difficult business, requiring chemical
knowledge and rather expensive plant. Colored
kalsomines are not made on a lime base. Better
buy your waterpaint ready made... ,E.S.G.: Depends
upon the programme of your tour. Without knowing
that nobody could advise you... .H.H.: (1) Pro-
cedure for wife in such a case is t.O write that
she is prepared to return when husband has a home
ready for her, but in the event of his refusing her a
home she will apply to the Court for a maintenance
order. (2) and (3) It is not legally incumbent on a
husband to maintain his wife if she leaves his home
of her own will and owing to no cruelty or harsh mis-
conduct on his part M.0.T.: Ask the Registrar in
Divorce, Sydney, where presumably tiro divorce was
obtained, to advise you whether an application to the
Court would be permitted in the circumstances....
W.G.K.: (1) It may be a peculiar composition
of perspiration. It is not nearly as common as the
advertisements would have you believe. (2) Frequent
baths are the best treatment... .G.S.M.: Communi-
cate with E. R. White, 30 Beach-road Cloyelly,
Sydney, who is a. competent judge.... D.M.: “Pro-
portional Representation,” by Hoog (£2 45.),
“Proportional Representation,” by Horwell (10s.),
and “Proportional Representation Applied to Party
Government,” by Ashworth (2s. 6d.) ... .G.F.8.: Get
in touch with L. F. Pratt, 242 Malop-street, Geelong.
.... (Many others mailed.)


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Jacko fell from grace at Rosehill on Satur-
day. He showed in his division of the
Camellia Stakes, for which he was a 5-to-2
favorite, that he likes a firm track and is
not nearly so good on any other sort. He
had every chance, but failed to gallop freely
in going that w r as not exactly heavy, as was
proved by the time for the seven furlongs—
lrnin. 26|sec. Of course, it was on the
heavy side. Winooka (14 to 1), having his
first run this season, took the lead in the
straight and romped home from Sir Duninald
(4 to 1) and Holdfast (10 to 1) ; then
came Legislator (G to 1), Holey and
Jacko. Winooka was well treated with 51b.
less than his Doncaster weight (9st.), but
was thought to be short of a gallop. Obviously
bolding tracks are not disrelished by the
Windbags.
Rogilla, up 91b. for his dead-heat with
Chatham at Randwick, and with 71b. more
than his Epsom burden (Bst. 41b.), carried
off the second division brilliantly. Old Sir
Chrystopher, and then Whittingham, looked
like giving him a go for it, but Rogilla—
again ridden by Darby Munro —was coming
away at the end; his time was Jsec. slower
than Winooka’s, hut showers had inter-
vened. lie was favorite at 7 to 4; and
now he is favorite for the Metrop., as well
as disputing pre-eminence in the Epsom
market with Chatham. Sir Chrystopher
showed his first glimpse of form since his
heroic defeat of the late Mollison in the All-
aged Stakes at Randwick last Easter.
The Rosehill Guineas brought out a field
of 16, and they were a nice-looking lot.
Bronze Hawk (6 to 1) demonstrated that his
defeat of Knvera at Warwick Farm was no
fiuke, and that he is decidedly superior to the
other Sydney three-year-olds he has met
(Peter Pan is not among them) up to nine
furlongs ; but being a gelding he is ineligible
for the Derbies. When making his run on
the rails he was thrown out of his stride
and nearly knocked down by Kuvera (2 to 1),
Bert ‘/Please don't tempt me, Im in
strict training,';
Gert'/what for; the cricket
SEASON 2 "
Bert: * smoking, makes me
SHORT 'NINOE-Of'
Gd=(2T ’.'OH, I SEE, VOU FIND >T AFFECTS
YOUR. BARRACKIHGj
who swerved in. Bartle soon got him going
again, and the Brazen gelding settled the
Brazen entire by a length and a half;
still travelling erratically, Kuvera had to
he eased up by McCarten to avoid banging
into Bronze H’awk. The stylish-looking Oro
was a good third; then came little Roman
Spear, Ruach (from Melbourne), India.
Regal Son (second favorite, with Bronze
Hawk) and Windbag’s son Bombastic. The
race was run in the creditable time of lmin.
544scc.
There were four four-year-olds in the
Rosehill Cup, and three, Satmoth (12 to 1),
Pretzel (16 to 1) and Version (7 to 1).
figured in the finish; in fact, they had it to
themselves. Version, who is getting an
extraordinary amount of racing for a horse
that is not robust, again made most of the
running, and was in front at the entrance
to the straight, attended by the other pair,
Satmoth, on whom Knox was seen to advant-
age, stayed best, but Pretzel satisfied his
young trainer by his capital second; Ver-
sion was followed by Oydinder, Taisho,
Troilus and Milantheon (6 to 1), and Peter
Jackson (3 to 1). Peter, who has been
withdrawn from the Metrop. and is being
reserved for the Melbourne Cup, did not
shape like a Cup horse, but he can be im-
proved. It was a good Metrop. trial on the
part of Satmoth, who proved his stamina
in the summer. He has Bst. 61b. in the
Mrti-op.-21b. more tha„ on Saturday.
Satmot)!, and Ms
giatification was increased after the Hill
Stakes, in which Peter Pan the chestnut
colt lie prepares for R. R. Dangar, proved
himself a real Derby hope Showers had
Sough it was 0 KnS
the “His
tactics succeeded, and only Nightmareh
threw out a challenge to the Derby candi-
date over the last furlong. He failed by
half a length; Johnnie Jason, of whom
rather too much use was made, was another
three-quarters of a length back; Veilmond
(6 to 4) was last. The others—all badly
beaten—were Autopay, Lough Neagh (from
Queensland) and Eastern Chief. Peter Pan
left the mile behind in lmin. 42sec. Being
by Pantheon—Alwina, he ought to stay: at
any rate he looks like being Gaine Carring-
ton’s stoutest opponent in the Derby. Five
to one was the price.
For Hawkesbury on Saturday:—
Park Stakes: Le Berger; next, Grey
Abbot.
Rowley Mile: Denis Boy or Havaspot;
next, Maltdale.
Flying Handicap: Legislator ; next, Gold
1 >igger.
Spring Handicap; Troilus: next, Cylinder.
Three-year-old Handicap: High Sun;
next, Heroic’s Hope.
Welter Handicap ; Havaspot or Kichaka;
next, Promptitude.
Picatus, a stallion by Magpie from Medal
Queen, finished third in the last Toorak
Handicap, and was runner-up to Oratorian
in the V.R.C. Maiden Plate. Trained at
that, time by R. Piper, he has since joined
the powerful stable of Jack Holt, and re-
vealed such great improvement that for a
while he became even more fancied than
High Brae, a stablemate, for the Caulfield
Cup. But Picatus recently went down badly
iir a Caulfield race, and concern arose as to
his physical condition. However, the brown
four-year-old commenced to do better on
the tracks, and Holt produced him for the
Mentone Handicap of 10$ furlongs on Satur-
day. The trainer was apprehensive that
Picatus might again display soreness, and
allowed him to drift from 2 to 1 to 6 to 1.
Beginning slowly, Picatus was last for a
great part of the journey, but came home
well to run third, Glideaway (who led all
the way) winning from Oratory. Cecil
Godby trains Glideaway, who has come along
wonderfully of late, but is not in the Cups.
Tlie fact of Picatus pulling up sound will
hearten those who backed him early for
the Caulfield Cup, but, of course, he will
need to sharpen up a lot between now and
October 15 to have a chance. After Ora-
tory’s second, his owner, Sol Green, an-
nounced that the son of Verbius would be
scratched for the A.J.C. Derby. “The colt
is doing all right.” remarked Green, “but
lie will remain in Melbourne.” If Oratoi’y
had not been bumped by The Dawn Patrol
and Broughton had been able to handle him
with more vigor, the colt might have won.
With a jockey like Pike in the saddle, Ora-
tory may take beating in the spring classic
at Flemington.
Tindall, the former Sydney trainer, was
compelled recently to send a large number
of his thoroughbreds under the hammer.
Chetowaik (Manfred —Gay Element) fell to
the bid of Frank Robinson at 400gns., and
Tindall bad the mortification on Saturday
of looking on while this gelding captured
the Three-year-old Handicap. Gigolo started
a hot favorite, but was so sore that he tailed
off as soon as the barrier rose, and beat only
two horses in a field of 13. Chetowaik has
6st. 131 b. in the Caulfield Cup, and has a
pound less weight in the Melbourne Cup.
It remains to be seen whether the new owner
will fly at such high game,
......
Holt was out of luck at Mentone, and
Duncan shared his misfortune. Umbertana
(Mentone Plate) and Press Gang (first
division of the Welter Handicap) were each
a close fourth. Harry Telford annexed a
division of the Mentone Purse with .Teldi-
wallah, who is engaged ip the Caulfield Cup
(6st. 121 b.) and the Melbourne Cup (6st.
Tib.). Four years old, this gelding is by
Dignity from Bronzesheen, by Bronzino from
Ballysheen (imp;), by Santry. Odds of 50
to. 1 were laid against the Mentone Plate
winner. Fighting Top. who usually fades
away in the straight, but led from end to
end on this occasion. Great Night, who
landed the first division of the Welter Han-
dicap, .paid nearly 40 to 1; lie was 14 to 1
i? Die ring. Great Night is by The Night
Patrol, but takes Jus grey color from his
dam the imported mare Sweet Innocence,
by Roi Herode.
mi _
. '.' nar * : "be \ le. Go ver n men 1 is alter-
n}g tax °n betting tickets with the idea
°t setting another £40,000 of revenuem this
wf y - I VA utare the tax on wagers of £3 to
19s. (il apyone ever puts £9 19s. on) is
[“ to £99 19a .“'i.T'fim
Jj ™g Pl .» 9 o 3 t £Jt» : amt'’upwaOs 1 are
)UH j 80 j s a large proportion of those of
£3 to flo x fiave sien ten-bob wagers
rin How Are-vle Is eoine- tn tree Lr
this hurdle which Ems utteifv fliledlo
£&> bi'punSS^to
g ° to ' ?hC with cheque forms.
, jorr . \ o i
(and KalrertyJ Kules
Only a day off the ’Frisco boat, Bert
Sampson (lOst. 91b.) was thrown into the
Leichhardt ring with Jack Carroll (lOst.
811 b.), and was stopped in eight rounds.
Carroll—the best man of his weight since
Tommy TJren—ran away with the first five
rounds. The right to the chin
made the next almost even, but after that,
it was all Carroll. Sampson was bleeding
so badly when the eighth ended that; the.
referee would not let him go on—the game
fellow wanted to.
.IfD* Pa niello (list 4Mb.)' outwrestled
Walter Browning (14st. 3£lb.) m the eaily
stages of their disagreement at Leichhardt,
and with a body-press gained the first fall
in the fourth. But Browning’s Boston crab
went close to breaking Pardello’s back before
he submitted in the fifth. The Spaniaid
was too sick to come up again.
Footbrawl
.... , . , , i ,
The Vic. Jieague second semi-final brought
a crowd ot 62,000-odd to the Melbourne
Cricket Ground on Saturday, and it. saw
a fine game for three-quarters ot the time,
thougli the finish was tame .Jumping into
stride at once the Carlton Blues collected 5
goals in the first, quarter, while Richmond s
Tigers, over-eager, fumbling and spoiling
each other, could get but one. They did
better later, but right up to lemon time the
Blues were masters—surer in the air, faster
to the ball and playing together. But in
the last spell they tired badly, while the
Tigers woke up and gave of their very best,
For 15 minutes of that last term they had
it all their own way, only two Or three ot
the Blues being able to stop their swift;
attacks. In that quarter they scored 53
points to Carlton’s .15 and long before the
end the latter’s ease was hopeless. Rich-
mond, 18 goals 16 behind,s (124) ; Carlton,
14 goals 15 behinds (91), said the board,
The Tigers were best served by their centre-
line, Judkins, Zscheck and Twyford, and by
Mgrtin, Douglas Strang and Baggott;
Carlton’s best were Gill, Martyn, Crisp and
Vallance, and Johnson was a great asset
till he had to leave the ground with broken
ribs.
* * . * *
The League premiership final between
South Sydney and Western Suburbs at Sydney
Sports Ground on Saturday was won by
Western Suburbs by 23—5 tries and 4 goals
—to B—2 tries and a goal. As South Sydney
had won the minor premiership, it has
the right to challenge the Westerners for a
grand final, which means, of course, yet one
more gate. After that it is understood that
a team from the country or Brisbane will
play the premiers. Whether the League
intends to wind up its interminable season
by taking on a team from the English
cricketers now on their way here has not
yet been divulged. The sides bad met twice
before this season, each winning a match by
a brief margin, On the present occasion,
Souths, famous for their fire and combina-
tion, dashed about with all the vim of
asphalters with half a ton of bagging tied
round each boot. The side certainly suffered
by the loss of that good centre Morrison
early. The winners scored with fast and
heavy forward rucking under suitable
weather conditions. One of the quaintest
things in the match was the removal by the
Westerners of a forward to extra fullback
in the second half.
Ins and Outs
“Lansdowne”: “Plum” Warner and Dick
Palairet, the joint managers of the English
cricket team now on the water, were at
Oriel College, Oxford, together in the days
when Oriel was supplying some of the ’Var-
sity’s finest cricketers. Each got his blue,
but neither managed it until his third year;
Palairet playing against Cambridge in 1892-
93 and Warner in 1894-95. Palairet was
merely a useful cricketer, overshadowed by
his elder brother Lionel, the international
model of elegance, but Warner advanced to
the captaining of English teams in Australia.
The father of the Palairets, by the way,
bore the reputation of having been the un-
luckiest Oxonian of his day in sporting
matters; he was the Eleven’s twelfth man
and the Eight’s ninth man. He got some
consolation later in life by becoming Eng-
land’s champion archer in the ’sixties or
t hereabouts.
* * * *
“Hotham”: .Tack Ellis, for year’s Vic-
toria’s wicketkeeper, and second string with
the gloves for the 1926 Australian Eleven,
is dropping out of big cricket for business
reasons and will not even resume his long-
occupied post with the Prahran club. A
’keeper of the first-class, Ellis was a more
than useful batsman. Somewhat tempera-
mental, he had a rooted objection to l.b.w.
verdicts against him, though he is not alone
in that particular. Further he had a habit
of chatting to the batsman in front; of him
during the playing of an over and this
sociability failed to endear him with many.
Australia has been rich in great ’keepers
and it was Ellis’s fate to be the contemporary
of men a shade better than himself.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Two naval officers from
.Tervis Bay who are undergoing instruc-
tional courses in England have gained their
Navy colors at cricket —no mean distinction.
One is Sub-Lieutenant Morrison, who is
described as a most promising right-hand
medium bowler of great accuracy who can
turn the ball both ways. The other is
Lieutenant Gatacre, whose specialty is not
mentioned. Both are Australians, so it: is
unlikely that we shall see either of them in
the ranks of the coming English Eleven—•
though pretty well all the rest of the Empire
will be there.
* * * *
“Chucker”; Some of these press cricket
experts are a bit muzzy iu their facts One
recent chronicler, commenting on the aban-
doned art of long-distance throwing of ihe
cricket ball, mentions that the record stands
in the, name of a Queensland abo.. who
threw the ball 140 yards at Clermont. The
chronicler adds that the thrower -was an
employee of Donald Wallace. Carbine’s
owner. The actual record is held by R
p er cival, who threw 140 yards 2 feet on
Durham Bands racecourse in 1884 A Cana-
dian named Ross Mackenzie fills second place
wit h 140 yards 9 inches. Then comes King
Billy, whose feat, occurred in 1872. Billy
was employed on Peak Downs station, then
owned by Oscar do Satge. Wallace, who
did not. burst into racing fame until years
later, must have been quite a pup at the
time if he was in Queensland at all. Other
famous throwers of the past were Bonnor
and Grace. In four consecutive attempts at
Kennington Oval. “W.G.” threw 116, 117 and
US yards and 100 in the reverse direction,
* * * *
“Stumps”: One feature of Australian
cricket which few have appreciated is the
small number of wicket-keepers called upon,
Test cricket has now been going for 55 years,
yet only 12 men have stood behind the
sticks for this country, while England has
called on no fewer than 40. Our lot included
Jack Blackham, who reigned from 1877 to
1894; A. H. Jarvis, of South Australia
(1885-1895); ,T. .T. Kelly (N.S.W.), who
was Aunt Sally from 1896-1905; and H.
Carter (1907-1921). Oldfield, who succeeded
Carter, has held the job for 12 years. Mur-
docli, Johns, Newland, Carkeek, Jennings.
Ellis and Walker were others selected as
offsiders. Murdoch may be excepted, since.
when the first Australian team left for
England in 1878. lie was first stumper, with
Blackham second,
.„„„„ on \
• on^ 011 P a 9 e 30.)
_
“Morimoto”: The arrest and threatened
confiscation by the Chinese of a. Sydney-
registered ship for trying to smuggle -grey-
hounds into Shanghai is the culmination
of a struggle between the international
authorities and the Celestial Government
over the alleged debauching of Ah Sin by
the tin-hare menace. Ah Sin took to the
hounds a few years ago like a duck to
water, but the new sport was frowned on in
Chinese territory, while it flourished all the
more in the Settlements. The Nanking Gov-
ernment thereupon put a ban on the impor-
tation of the dogs, which it was able to do,
since it controls through the customs every-
thing entering the foreign settlements. The
action is based on a Chinese 1858 treaty,
which permits China to confiscate vessels
carrying contraband, opium being the chief
menace in those days.
The Dunlop-Perdriau Goulburn-to-Sydney
road race for pushbikes, run on Saturday,
produced some remarkable riding, though
the going was very bad. The distance is
129 miles, and the winner of the amateur
section, E. Milliken, of Victoria, one of
Australia’s greatest road riders, won off
scratch in shr. 38min. 42sec. This is a new
amateur record for the race. The profes-
sional section also' drew a record entry,
though Opperman and Lamb were absent.
T. Brown, of Ourimbah (with a_ start of
57min. 30. see.), won in 6hr. 7min. 3Qsee.
Fastest time went to 11. Cruise, the Vic-
torian, who clocked shr. 46min. 49 2-ssec. off
the scratch mark. Hubert, Opperman’s
record is shr. 22min. 30sec.
*
“Blue Chalk”: Another of those attempts
by the controllers of English billiards to
limit enormous breaks, attempts which have
proved so futile in the past, is now in
force in England and will apply to all pro-
fessional matches until the end of December
at least. It provides that the cue ball must
cross the baulk line at least once in each
100 scored in a break, or at the completion
of 100 points. The rule is aimed at
specialisation in scoring strokes —in other
words, Walter Lindrum’s wizardry with
close-cannon play. However, Walter and
some of his contemporaries and predeces-
sors have found means of getting round
similar constricting rules, and, no doubt,
history will repeat itself in this instance.
Indeed, on the new rule’s first trial in the
Newman-McConachy match in London last
week, Newman made a break of 298, mostly
by concentrating on top of the table play.
* * ;■ * *
“Rastus”: There is some doubt whether
Australia will see that promised team of
American track athletes after all. The Aus-
tralian authorities particularly desired the
inclusion of Eddie Tolan and at least
another of the great, negro athletes who did
so much to put America at the head of the
Olympic Games. However, a hint has been
dropped that, though the darkies would pos-
sibly come along, their white cobbers might
be shy of travelling with them.


SPRING AND SUMMER SEASON 1932
qggp
t/P, S-S)'->
oden
IMtllllllllllllllllllHlll
"if Iw-
>l
■aUliJ
HOSIERY BY PRESTIGE —chosen for outstanding qualities
and exclusive features—Refinements that give beauty, service
and comfort. Prestige Creations are offered to you in a series of
new and beautiful tonings
QUALITY CREATIONS BY PRESTIGE INCLUDE:
No. 505 —Genuine DULL Grenadine
Sheer Per pair
I2li
No. 405 —Powderbloom DULL Service
Sheer Per pair
9'n
No. 800 —The Popular Service Weight
Per pair
m
No. 700 —An excellent Heavy Service
Weight of Pure Silk and Rayon Per pair
7\\
HOSIERY
Htlfll
•'•w.. *
UlUMfilimiHlM
A N
AUS T R
A L I
ri!l|liiiiiFii||llil|i|
l rvi
up
CREATION
A N


IF
you desire to reach that section 01.
the N.Z. public that moulds the buy-
ing habits of the rest;
IF
you have a message for New Zealand-
ers who have more money to spend
on more commodities than the many;
!F
your goal is a market with the maxi-
mum capacity to respond to your
advertising efforts, then cover the
Wellington Province, the highest in
spending power, by using the most
effective medium,
Cl* Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
’Phone: 85241.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking Hous>‘
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
Supreme in Its Own
Field!
THE PERTH
(1) The largest paper in Western
Australia.
(2) Each issue leads in News and
Advertising.
(3) Its Country circulation is un-
equalled.
(4) The Metropolitan sales are
“home - delivery” circulation,
therefore most valuable.
(5) Foundation Member Audit
Bureau of Circulations.
NATIONAL ADVERTISERS!
This Great Advertising Medium
puts you in touch with a valuable
market in the West.
TRY IT NOW!
SMOKERS!
INSIST UPON
AUSTRALIAN MADE
LE MIL
SUPER QUALITY
CIGARETTE PAPERS
CHEAPER AND BETTER
THAN BEST IMPORTED
If any Illustration In “The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
"1161111
Vi|»
e
Ins and Outs
“Aigburth”: One of the arresting features
of the coming English Eleven is the batting
capacity of wicket-keeper Ames, who, up to
the end of August, had compiled well over
two thousand runs. It is a matter for dis-
cussion whether lie or Duckworth is
the better ’keeper, but as batsman there is
only one in it. England has had some great
batsman-’keepers, with Lilley, perhaps, at the
head of them, but none of them has done
so much with the .bat as the man from Kent.
In Australia we have never had a ’keeper
of such batting quality, Oldfield being, prob-
ably, the best of the lot. Ames never figured
in a Test in Australia with Chapman’s team,
Duckworth’s ability with the gloves keeping
him out. It is extremely probable that he
will play in the coming Tests as a batsman,
with Duckworth as Aunt Sally, thus pro-
viding the unusual spectacle of two _ first-
class ’keepers appearing on the one side.
“Olor Delpus”: Fender’s opinion is that
the “bleachers” in Sydney “will have faces
as white as their shirts when Jardine
finishes with them.” Percy uses the Yankee
term for a barracker, so the hillites’ reply,
to be in the fashion, should be “Oh yeah?”
A remark made to the Surrey amateur on
Sydney Cricket Ground in 1921 must have
rankled. Fender, usually a brilliant field,
had fumbled once or twice, to be greeted
with the remark: “Call yerself a fender V
Why yer not even a gas-grate.”
:j: * * *
“Aigburth”: An interesting item in the
Sydney bellow press last week was the re-
production of a caricature-portrait of Billy
Murdoch. The text says it is “highly
colored.” In monochrome it has all the
appearance of one of those full-page colored
portraits of political and other celebrities
which London “Vanity Fair” used to pub-
lish weekly. If I am right, the date (1882)
should make it the work of Carlo Pellegrini,
who used to sign his portraits “Ape.” After
him came Leslie Ward (“Spy”), who reigned
for many years. It is more than likely that
the original picture was the gift of the
artist to “Billy,” then a very celebrated citi-
zen. One delightful touch is the journal’s
description of Murdoch as wearing the “hat-
band” of the Australian team. What Billy
wears on his head is no equivalent of the
Greek fillet, but the tiny little peakless
pork-pie cap which was the fashionable
wear with cricketers in those days.
v 'l* $ ❖
“Not Out”: It is proposed to invite a
team of she cricketers from England to play
a series of matches. Women’s cricket has
hbout as big a following in Australia as
ping-pong or croquet. The expenses of a team
from England would run into thousands.
Where are the gates to come from to supply
the money? Certainly cricket has been
played by women, off and on, for many
years. Writer has a record of the Regency
days which tells of a match between 11
young females from Sussex and 11 from
Hampshire. It was made a proviso by the
nobility and gentry who found the money
for the stake that the ladies should play
in their “shifts.” The story goes that the
match was a very successful one from a
gate-money point of view. I have only a
vague notion what a “shift” is, but I cannot
imagine our Australian cricketinas consent-
ing to appear in the garment, even to encour-
age attendances at their matches.
* * =:= *
“Shrewsbury” : I have never been able to
understand the propaganda against Australian
barracking which appears in the English press
whenever an English team is on the point of
setting off for Australia. One of the worst
things writer has seen in this direction is
a long statement by a person calling himself
Glasgow-Robertson. This hitherto unheard-
of bird, who admits he has never been in
Australia, surmises that the alleged “rude-
ness” of the Sydney “hill” is due to the fact
that the authorities dare not or will not
suppress the nuisance. All those familiar
with the manner in which the N.S.W. police
control the huge and good-humored “hill”
crowds will grin. He asserts also that an
English cricketer —unnamed —told him he was
getting tired of being called a every ball.
Writer has seen much cricket, in the North
of England, especially at Old Trafford and
Bramall-lane. Nothing like the barracking
and the foulness of the language, especially
if Yorkshire and Lancashire were facing a
Bank Holiday crowd, has ever been heard by
him in Australia during Test and other
matches held from Brisbane to Adelaide and
back again.
Racquet and Bawl
Ellsworth Vines - , the American tennis-
player who will be in Australia this summer,
put the seal on his fame by beat-
ing the mighty Frenchman Cochet in the
singles final of the American National cham-
pionships. Vines made no mistake about
it, for he won in three straight sets, having
his opponent helpless. It is a case of youth
being served, for Vines is only 20 and
Cochet has been a champion for the past
seven years or so. This is the second time
Vines has beaten Cochet this season, the
other being in the Davis Cup singles at
Paris. Vines is now singles champion of
England and America and looks like adding
the Australian scalp to his belt.
£ =l: * *
“Top Spin”: The N.S.W. tennis heads
expect to be able to seat 11,000 people at.
the Americans’ matches with N.S.W. and
Australia. A big permanent, brick stand
should prove a good asset to their ground, and
every effort is being made to increase the
crowds on the banks. A pity the old
Tivoli “packers” are a vanished race. They
would be an asset to the tennis authorities
this season. Seating prices vary from 4s. to
10s., with special rates for chairs.
* * *
“Milton”: Queensland has reconstituted
its Tennis Association. Briefly the reorgan-
isation has tended to amalgamate the
interests of the grass- and hard-court players,
interests which have clashed in the past
elsewhere than in Queensland. The grass-
courters will be represented by the president,
two vices, the honorary secretary and
treasurer and seven representatives on the
executive council. The hard-court represen-
tatives will also number seven, but, since in
the old council they had 10, a ballot will
have to be held. Each lot will look after
its own particular affairs. The general
policy of the game, such as arranging inter-
state visits, etc., will be a matter for the
combined council alone. The change pro-
mises to free the game from many pin-pricks
which have vexed it in the past.
* * =i= *
“Centre. Court”: Wallis Myers’s rank-
ing list comprises Vines, Cochet, Borotra,
Allison, Sutter (U.S.A.), Prenn, Perry, Von
Cramm, Austin and Crawford. Sutter, who
has done little in big tennis yet, except to
extend Vines in the American championships,
seems out of place. Otherwise there is little
fault to find, Borotra’s defeat of Vines in
the Davis Cup, which kept the pot in France,
entitling him to his rank. The two Germans
have also won a place in the sun, as has
Perry, but Austin and Crawford seem too
highly graded on performance this season.
Myers, by the way, blames Crawford’s stale-
ness for much of his oad form. The Aus-
tralian does practically nothing but play
tennis all the year round in his own country
and there is a lot in Myers’s suggestion.
The Nineteenth Hole
, “Divot Digger”: The people who have
killed a bird on the wing with a golf or
cricket ball are as numerous as the sands of
the sea, though I never heard of anyone
nailing a feathered friend or nuisance, as
the case may be, with a football. A new
golf instance comes from Manly, where they
are a truthful lot, considering. A player was
taking his back swing after addressing his
ball on the tee, and slew a sparrow in the
process. It looks like the sparrow’s fault.
The rule says “slow back,” and the sparrow
who could not dodge a conscientious back
swing is better dead. Still, it may
be that the player is one of those
moderns who disregard the essential rules
and play their back swing faster than
their follow-through. There are a lot of
them about, as the length they get from the
tees goes to prove.
=i= * * $
“Ploughman”: The usual horde of golfers
from the country will invade Sydney for
their State title contest on October 13, on
which date they will go for the championship
over 36 holes of stroke. That match will
be played on the Australian club’s course,
and with one thing or another the meeting
will take three days. Teams’ matches begin
on October 10, and two days later the lads
from the open spaces where men are men
and ball-stealing crows are fair cows will
tackle a new item in this annual function—
a country foursomes championship, this at
Killara. There are haudicap e,vents as well,
and as the State meetiug begins as soon as
the countrymen have finished, many of the
latter will n 0 doubt wait to have a shy at
the big stuff.
ijc $ :Jj
“Baffy”: The “close” golf championship
of N.S.W. will be played at La Perouse on
October 14 and 15, two rounds of stroke play
being tackled each day. The title of the com-
petition might give the idea that it is a tight
one to enter. The reverse seems to be the
case. Competing amateurs must be members
of recognised golf clubs and residents of
N.S.W. Members of the Professional Golf
Association (N.S.W. branch) may enter and
will be honorary members of the club from
October 5-7 and October 10-15. Entrance
fee is 10s., and R. J. Withycombe will look
after the brass if you send or take it to him
at Wingello House, Sydney. It is comfort-
ing to see the lions and the lambs of golf
sit down in amity. It is not so long ago
that the exclusive people running the N.S.W.
A.I.F. championship confined the play for
the cup to the oflicahs. That bit of snobbery
has vanished, thank goodness, and no one
wants to see it back.
* tt * * .
“Sandringham”: Victoria, which keeps a
closer eye on its promising young golfers
than the sister States do, holds annually a
boys’ championship. This is not a caddie con-
test, but one between junior members of the
various Victorian clubs. The event went to
Alex. Rae, who plays No. 1 in the
Yarra Yarra club’s pennant games. He
had a hard nut to crack in Harry Tarr, of
the Commonwealth club, who took him to the
last hole before the other beat him two holes
up. The golf was of remarkable quality.
Rae’s figures of 76 for the round equalled
those of the Australian open champion, M.
J. Ryan, when he played Hagen on the same
6800-yard course a couple of years ago.
❖ ❖ :ji ❖
“Brassey”: Orange’s golf club, is holding
its tenth annual meeting on October 1 and
3, and since this country club is one of the
most popular in Australia, with the 1 player
as well as the pothunter, there should be
a record roll-up. The programme contains
abundant handicap opportunities for that re-
tiring violet the mug golfer. The big game
on the opening day will be for the Patron’s
Cup, at present held by R. J. Withycombe,
of Killara. It is a 36-hole bogey from
scratch, and the winner of the cup, which
is a perpetual grant to the club, gets a
small replica to mark liis victory. The Sir
Neville Howse Cup will be played for
on Monday. This is a 36-hole competition
from scratch, and, like the Patron’s Cup, is
a perennial affair with similar conditions
attaching. In all, the two days’ programme
contains nine events, exclusive of minor en-
gagements. Rail concessions, of course, arc
available, and a fee of £1 will allow a player
to clean up the entire programme, if he
feels that way.
Car and Cycle
“Disc Clutch” : The many motor accidents
in and about Sydney, to name only one
locality, have caused me to wonder whether
half the drivers really know anything about
the dinguses they handle, though the car to-day
is so fool-proof that it can be driven by any
intelligent cannibal —Papua and New Guinea
are full of native drivers of this type. A
relative who works the night shift in a big-
garage near Sydney bridge confirms my
impression. He was awakened during l a cold
winter night by a driver who complained
that the electrical gear was crook. In
answer to questions the complainant indig-
nantly asserted that he oiled his battery
every morning! Another bird with the same
trouble was asked if he bad filled his bat-
teries regularly with distilled water, and if
he really knew where the batteries were.
Lifting the bonnet lid, the motorist pointed
triumphantly to the magneto. He had never
failed, he said, to pour a few drops of water
into the oil-hole of that old gadget every
week.
“Pram”: The tremendous and increasing
vogue of the light car has produced some
interesting repercussions. One big firm
after another lias found it necessary or
worth while to fall into line and turn out
a “baby.” Two newcomers to the small-
car field are the Birmingham Small Arms
Co. and the Lanchester, both of which
famous English firms are putting a 10-li.p.
dingus on the market. The B.S.A. will be
a water-cooled 4-cylinder job with a front-
wheel drive. The Lanchester de Luxe wiil
also feature four cylinders with overhead
valves and the Daimler fluid flywheel. The
original Lanchester, a rare car in Australia,
is one of the most exclusive and expensive
in existence. Indeed, the firm is said to
adopt the attitude of Stephen Grant, the
London gunmaker, who, if he didn’t like
the look of a prospective client, would
bluntly refuse to build one of his master-
pieces for him, though untold gold were
offered.
# V $
“Sprocket”: One of the' kings of the push-
bike in the golden days of the game was
the American negro “Major” Taylor, whose
death in his native country is reported.
Taylor first came here iu 1902, when he was
supposed to be 27. His two visits to Aus-
tralia in the 1902 and 1903 seasons credited
him with a wonderful lot of money, for,
apart from his track winnings, he demanded
appearance fees which would make the
modern bike promoter faint. He was as
good on the road as the track, but his great
asset was his power to “accelerate,” as the
motor men call it, for he could “jump” his
cycle from 10 miles to 35 miles per hour in
10 yards without apparent effort. A strict
Methodist, he always refused to ride on
Sundays, and this kept him out of the great
Continental races.
* $ ❖
“Fitzcray”: Dunlop-Perdriau have issued
prize lists and conditions for the big annual
bike races from Warrnambool and Colac to
Melbourne. The value of the prizes for the two
events is over £4OO. Owing to the fast times
of the last few years, the time limit has been
shortened, that for the Warrnambool being
94 hours and for the Colac 5 hours. In
last year’s Warrnambool 15S riders beat
9 hours, and 186 in the Colac did better than
5. Special trials have been held in every
State in Australia to thin out the entries,
but the list is still a formidable one.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: The Australian Olympic
team received a rousing welcome on its
return to Sydney, and rightly so, for its
wins in proportion to its small numbers
struck a high percentage. All told the. press
that they had learned a lot, but none of
them seemed to have pointed the obvious
moral that for track athletes to learn their
running on grass in Australia puts them
hopelessly out of the hunt when they come
to the fast “cinder” tracks of America and
Europe. However, writer has preached on
this text for years, so there is no need to
stress it. In the same way our swimmers
are much too fond of swimming in long
baths. You will rarely catch an American
champion showing in anything but a 25-yard
pool, where the great advantage of the leg
push at the turn increases in ratio to the
distance swum.
* * * *
“Bias”: The N.S.W. bowling world is
torn with dissension. In the past club em-
ployees, such as barmen, greenkeepers or
stewards, have been allowed to play with
their clubs in association matches or com-
petitions. The practice is banned in Mel-
bourne clubs, but not in those outside Yarra-
ville. N.S.W. proposes to follow the
Victorian example on the grounds of “main-
taining discipline.” Perhaps it loosens the
bonds of formality, but I dunno. Personally
I have more than once seen a steward put
a member overcome with the excitement of
the game to bed on the floor in a back
room, after taking his shoes off and shoving
his bowl bag under his head for a pillow.
I should say that that sort of thing was not
particularly good for discipline either, but I
have never known the kindly services spurned.
* * *
“Backwoodsman” : A writer styling him-
self “Old Bowler” has been writing to the
Sydney press to demand that some authority
compile and record authentic records con-
cerning the institution and conduct of the
game in N.S.W. in the days that the silver-
fish hath eaten. Certainly some tabulation
is needed. Once upon a time it was the
writer’s fate to chronicle for his paper end-
less games of bowls in and about Sydney and
Newcastle, accompanied by an unhappy
artist who did pen-and-ink portraits of the
ancients. In that period he must have en-
countered out of several thousand players
at least 673 who averred that the speaker
was the original democrat who raucously
invited Governor Jersey of long ago, who
was getting ’em a bit short, to “Keep ’em
up, Ginger, blarst yer.” Each of the 673
averred stoutly that all the others were
blanky liars, and offered to shout by way
of proving his yarn, so naturally I never
cross-' mined
* o * *
“Slalom”: Quite a number of .people
who have read of alpine sports in the
southern mountains of-Australia during the
winter months will lift an inquiring eye-
brow at the mention of a spring ski-ing
meeting. This will be held in N.S.W. next
month, when the rest of the population is
cooling off in the surf. The meeting will
come off at some convenient spot in the
Kosciusko district. Victoria and Maoriland
liave been indulging in spring meetings for
some time, but this is the first official entry
of the N.S.W. folk who slide about on flat
sticks. In view of the hot sun, competitors
are advised to wear a thick coating of
grease on hands and faces, for sunburn from
snow srlare is the limit.


m.
' i
Ik
m
TA
n
■
■
%
I 1
v
H
■
1
: - m
■v
H
■
ii'
X i
■M
■
;:,.k
1
wm
■
■
■
I I
>
Pill
::
m
MM
ism
AT
■
■
H
M
KM
■ .
n
ii
•: : \
1
■
■
H
■
'
■
1 1
■
H
■
: - ■■ ; :-
i
m
w
m
9
■
-
n
m
■
■
: x : x;i:x:
:
Pf
m
M
l
B
mm
MB
111
■
■
■
lililil
iilipiii
nommmm
A bottle of K.B. in the home is one of the secrets of a
contented life. There’s so much nourishment and refreshment
in it, that the regular enjoyment of Tooth’s K.B. becomes
part of a wise man’s daily habit.
è
KB
‘INVICTA” GIN
the foundation of every
good cocktail
IN QUART BOTTLES
AND HALF BOTTLES
LAGER.
K 39X


WOODS' GREAT
PEPPERMINT
CURE
For Coughs, Colds and
Influenza.
Sold Everywhere.
NATIONAL SONG COMPETITION.
“The Bulletin” offers a First Prize of
£25, a Second Prize of £lO and Five
Prizes of £1 ea<rh for the words only of
an Australian national song. Entries must
reach “The Bulletin” Office not later than
November 16, 1932.
e
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Kingsford Smith on Broken Hill.
Sir Charles Kingsford Smith had a joyous visit
to Broken Hill last Sunday week. He took the
famous Southern Cross with him, for joy rides,
and he carried up into the skies no less than
384 passengers. And this, too, although there
■were two other ’planes also jov-riding. Alto-
gether Broken Hill sent nearly 900 of the
population aloft that day. This will give some
idea of the sort of spending place this city
really is.
“THE BARRIER MINER’’ is published twice
every day at Famous Broken Hill. Over 7000
copies on Saturdays!
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
** MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN SEASON.
KING’S THEATRE: AUJUMN CROCUS.
The Woman’s Mirror
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Published every Saturday
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
FORMULAS
Get into business for yourself making Home
Condiments, Factory, Office and warehouse
requisites, Farm aud Station needs. We can
supply you with formulas, with instructions in
full, for making any of the following:
Floor Polish
Stove Blacking
Paints
Varnishes
Inks
Glue
Adhesive Paste
Brewer’s Yeast
Tomato Sauce
Face Powder
Hair Tonic
Massage Cream
Tooth Paste
Hair Dressing
Hair Dyes
Dyes of every
description
Mayonnaise Dressing
LEARN HOW TO:
Silver Mirrors
Mix Concrete
Make Liquid Solder
Make Picture Frames
Make Sweets of all
kinds
Make Bricks, Tiles,
Concrete Blocks
Make Corn Cure
Make Headache
Powders
No matter what you want to make, we hare
the formula. Write us, tell us what you want.
Formulas 1/6 each. Two to same address, 2/6.
Pacific Laboratories Company,
Box 2176 LL, G.P.0., Sydney.
Union Bank Chambers,
15G Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
If wives throughout the ages had taken
the same stand over wandering husbands
as did Medea, wife of Jason, there wouldn’t
be half as many divorce Judges in jobs to-
day. This Letter isn’t defending the lady’s
methods, but has to admit they were very
thorough. Still, though she did poison her
rival with a wedding veil which then con-
sumed her with its fire, and though she did
leave Jason childless by killing her two sons,
and though finally she did set the old home
on fire, Euripides, over 2000 years ago, was
able to make out a case in her favor, show-
ing her soul to be the tattered banner of her
ovvn anger. Gilbert Murray, the Australian,
has translated it all in long flowing lines
of noble poetry, and on Saturday night Sybil
Thorndike re-created the wrongs, the angers,
the remorse of the tragic woman.
Sydney didn’t rush the opening, which
was Sydney’s great loss; the circle showed
almost empty rows of seats. But the upper
circle was crowded, and at the end it was
from there that the most emphatic and pro-
longed applause seemed to come. Sybil her-
self looked magnificent. She was robed in
tones of 'red —fuchsia-red, fire-red, blood-red
as the lights phanged and flickered on them.
In contrast the night-sky blue of the chorus
struck cool and dispassionate. The whole
of the action takes place in front of Medea’s
house, and one of the most enthralling
moments is that end-duologue when the dis-
traught Jason, his blue-grey robes splashed
with silver, stands on the steps of his burn-
ing home and looks up to the remorseless
yet heart-broken Medea. She is standing on
the roof, her draperies seeming to crackle
with the destruction she has evoked, while
her tongue drips the acid of her thoughts
into his over-complacent male mind.
When the first curtain went up Greek
couples, late revellers having a night out,
could be seen persisting in dancing before
Medea’s house. They kept this up for quite
a while, and probably their goings-on had
a bit to do with the next day’s tragedy. A
sleepless night, brooding over her wrongs,
would do much to unhinge the already dis-
traught woman’s mind. One wonders if all
unconsciously these Greek dancers may not
have been the beginning of our wise move-
on laws.
Flower-lovers are making a round of a
dozen of the notable gardens of . Sydney in
the interests of various charities. There
have been no thrips this spring to spoil the
glory of peach and plum and pear blossom,
and it is many years since the cineraria beds
were such a blaze of color. The wistaria is
scattering its riches of perfume and petal;
and as usual the garden of the Mental Hos-
pital at Parramatta is making its call to
thousands of visitors.
The Victoria Leaguers put their best foot
forward for their party to Dame Sybil
Thorndike. It was called a welcome, but
was rather belated in its blooming, as already
the lady’s season at the Royal is drawing
to a close. The ballroom of the Australia,
no less, was the scene of inaction, for it was
one of those parties where the most spirited
deed is the exchange of bows between a long,
long line of hostesses and the arriving guest.
Among the overflow of knights’ ladies Gran-
ville Ryrie’s handsomely dressed wife was
noted, having that very correct air the newly-
returned from London, always sport, but
which always slips a bit after the first fort-
night of really hot weather. The executive
of the league had already fluttered around
her at a lunch at the Queen’s Club, and
even there her black satin frock with its
high collar of vellum satin was notable. The
Hugh' Denison and Philip Street ladies were
among the titled who received, and Dame
Mary Cook the ever-cheerful was another.
Burgundy cloth and black astrachan were
combined in Mrs. Roystone Davey’s rai-
ment. and Sybil Thorndike’s frocking sug-
gested a cottage garden—wallflower browns
and daffodil yellows. Lewis Casson, ‘ her
husband, who came with her, was, as usual,
tailored just like a dinkum Aussie—nothing
of the spats, the stick, or the marvellously-
knotted tic about him. One nice girl attained
distinction by wearing the only peasant
blouse in the room. It was of black and
white striped silk, and was part of a pina-
fore frock in spring-leaf green, Tea and
talk, Iceland poppies and stocks were other
features.
Mrs. R. Steer Bowker, who died on Friday,
aged 69, was related to half Sydney. A
daughter of the John Markses, who lived at
Glen rock in the remote days when Sydney-
ites kept up big houses and gardens, she was
a sister of architect Theo Marks and of Mrs.
George Vivers. One of her clever daughters
married Alan Potter; another is Mrs. James
Gordon ; Wally Marks, ex-M.P., and Mrs.
Fred Watson, of Canberra, were cousins. Bob
Bowker, her husband, who was a distin-
guished surgeon of the era when the names
of MacCormick and Maitland loomed large in
the medical world, died some years ago.
When A. E. Scott, who is president of the
Institute of Architects, said last Friday that
Adelaide was taken as a model by town-
planners in the older countries, his listeners
smiled broadly with complacence. He was
speaking at the monthly lunch of the Aus-
tralian Guild of Empire, and he was giving
out a few hints on how to revive the build-
ing trade. Women come specially into the
picture, because architecture commenced with
the dwelling-place, and woman is, or should
be, the keeper of the home. Adela Pank-
hurst Walsh was on the speaker’s right, and
Mrs. David Maughan on his left. Near by
were Mrs. Sheller and her clear-cut features.
These lunches are proving very popular, and
men as well as women drop in for a snack
and a bit of commonsense talk on home and
foreign affairs.
AH Sydney’s chickens, or so it seemed,
came home to roost by the Mariposa; and,
judging by the wharves, the stay-at-homes
had hopped off their perches to go down to
the shining white ship and crow over them.
The Olympians were, of course, the centre
of attraction, and Clare Dennis, with her
bays about her neck, had the reception of
her life, the Force, all smiles, forming a
guard of honor for their old comrade’s
daughter. Healthy, honest-looking Bonnie
Mealing, sunny-smiled Eileen Wearne,
Frances Bult and her wind-blown curls —
anyway, you felt if they hadn’t brought home
records they had at least left a favorable
impression of Australia’s girlhood behind
them. And didn’t the boy athletes look
well groomed! The beauty actors of Holly-
wood must have been glad to see the back
of them.
Back from another world-trip were the
Sidney Myers, who are as well known in
Sydney as in Melbourne; and the Byron
Wrigleys—she was Dorothy Tait —just back
from their honeymoon, were others avlio
caught the eye. Their address for the next
week or two will be Onslow Gardens. Joe
Carruthers was also aboard the lugger-
disembarking just in time to attend the
funeral of his brother, Dr. J. E., best known
of veteran reverends of the Methodist
Church.
When Sarah Hynes has her birthday this
week she will be 74, and proud of it. Miss
Hynes is one of Sydney’s notable women;
she was the
first .botanist
of her sex to
be employed
by an Austra-
lian Govern-
ment. The
herbarium in
the Botanic
Gardens, said
by Dr. Hill,'
the high Euro-
pean authority,
to be the finest
south of the
Line, was the
scene of her
labors for 10
years, and she
and that
master of plant
life Ernst
Betche d i d
much to turn
it into the
treasure-house it is. Between them the two
had all the living and one at least of the
dead languages, so that the world’s know-
ledge was theirs to make use of for this
baby of the Southern Cross. One of the
most interesting jobs of Miss Hynes’s career
was the classifying of a gift from the British
Museum of 600 duplicates of the flora picked
by Banks and Solander when they toured
with Cook. There they are, nearly 200
years after, unchanged except for a little salt-
water discoloration —flannel-flowers picked at
Botany Bay by the hands of one who loved
them, who, probably knee-deep in fern, cried
out aloud under the ardent sun over this
new type he had discovered—for our flora
is (hear this, ye vandals!) the most ancient
and unique in the world.
After she had been 10 years at the her-
barium, Peter Board, then Director of Edu-
cation, seized Miss H'ynes and made her
science mistress in the department. But
it is for public spirit as much as brains that
Sarah Hynes is notable. She was one of the
committee that helped raise £5OOO for the
Women’s College; tiny though she is, she
bullied authority into securing the Ellis
Rowan collection for Australia, and saw
that the Longstaff portrait of the intrepid
little artist was included.
As a girl Miss Hynes was Queen's scholar
at Chichester College, whose principal was
related by marriage to the great Disraeli, and
her first lessons in botany were on the
estate of the Duke of Richmond and Gordon,
of which the famous Goodwood is a park
Later she went to a school in St. John’s
Wood, where names famous among all the
arts were on the roll, and it was then she
and her family lived in the house which had
been the home of Keats when he poured out
his heart to the heartless Fanny.
Talking about languages and their help to
scientists, a perplexed parent lately con-
sulted a doctor with recent post-graduate
training in London. The p.p. had a son who
wanted to pursue medicine very thoroughly
—it didn’t seem to him worth while joining
an overcrowded profession to lx; in the ruck.
The p.p. agreed; and could his friend the
eminent medical scholar offer any sugges-
tions? He offered several, the most strik-
ing of them that the student should spend
a year—or, better, two years—learning Ger-
man, French and Italian; or, if he thought
he could master only two, then German and
Italian.
How popular the Ryries arc is being
proved by the rush of welcome-home parties.
There was, among the. first, a lunch given
by the president (Philip Street’s lady) and
the executive of the Victoria League. An-
other of note and size was the reception by
members of the Queen’s Club. At this the
same lady did the honors in a black ensemble
topped by a small black hat wreathed with
field flowers. All the pillars of society
turned up to this, Mrs. J. Macarthur Onslow,
Mrs. Bayley Macarthur, the newly-returned
Mrs. Chris Thorriett, Mrs. V. Bennett and
Mrs. Roystone Davey being among, the much-
greeted.
Only 375 out of the 1200 ratings thrown
out of employment by the cuts in the Navy
have managed
to finds jobs;
so it’s the
dole and a
lean time for
ex-Jack Tar
and his fam-
ily. But the
SOS has gone
out, and Syd-
ney is rally-
ing around. A
ball at the
Wentworth on
October 7 pro-
mises to fill
the purse of
the ex-Naval
Men’s Asso-
ciation, - and
the girl in
this picture is
one of the
workers in the
cause. She is
Elizabeth Friend, treasurer of a committee
that has Commander John. Bovill’s wife for
president. The ball, _ which starts at the
comfortable hour of nine, has a poster com-
petition for its star attraction.
Mongomerie Severn (“Monte,” as his
innumerable friends called him), who died
suddenly last week, was one of the few re-
maining members of the Sydney society of
the ’nineties —a little group in which every-
one knew everyone else well. He was proud
of his descent from Severn, the English
artist who was Keats’s friend, and was a
mine of information on the subject of the
poet. After his father’s death his mother,
who was one of the Australasian collaterals
of the Eglinton and Winton family, became
Eady Stansfield, wife of the Liberal states-
man who served Gladstone so well. Mr.
Severn took a keen interest in the doings of
his many relations in England, whom he
visited with his wife some years ago. ITe
was born in Sydney, spent his early years
in Maoriland, which is well peopled with
Montgomeries, and settled in Sydney after
his marriage to Mary, daughter of Chief
Justice Stephen, who survives him. A most
companionable character, with a notable gift
for friendship, he preserved his remarkable
good looks to the end.
Former champion Fanny Durack, now
Mrs. Gately, made an upright-looking Aus-
tralia in the pageant which was the crown-
ing moment of the welcome-homo party to
the members of the Olympic team. Edie
Robinson and Edna Davey were the heralds
who proudly stepped ahead of Clare Dennis
and Duncan Gray, who bore aloft the Olym-
pic flag. After Australia, in her white
robes and high pearly coronet, walked “Boy”
Charlton carrying our starry flag. After
him stepped other Olympians, while the band
played “Advance, Australia Fair.” Over
one thousand dancers stood or sat to atten-
tion around Mark Foy’s ballroom to gaze
on the procession. One of the proudest
among them was Mrs. Dennis, the little
champion’s mother 1 , who was having her
first ball in nearly 20 years; and near by
the Dennis baby slept, dreaming perhaps of
being a record-beater itself some day. The
table set apart for the team was surmounted
by a floral standard which read “We did
our best,” and here sat the chaperon, Mrs.
W. Chambers, friends with all the world.
Miss Hilda Marks and brother E. S. Marks
represented the Mayoral Walders, who were
unable to be present. A white frock, its
bolero outlined in silver, was worn by Mrs.
Caldwell, wife of America’s Consul-General;
Mrs. Hugh D. Mclntosh brought black laces
to the party, and a cheerful note was struck
by the red cape flown by Bonnie Mealing.
Frances Bult was in primrose satins, and
Eileen wearne in white and silver.
Thirteenth Battalion reunion—Saturday,
October 1, at the Railway and Tramway
Institute, Sydney; 6.30.
. The Walter Scott Centenary is not pass-
ing unnoted by Scots under the Southern
Cross. Last night was the Scots’ Ball;
to-night, the actual anniversary, the function
from the literary point of view will be held
in the Great Hall of the University, spon-
sored by the_ English Association and the
Highland Society. Professor Mungo MacCal-
lum will deliver an address.
There’s a group of enthusiasts in Sydney
who patiently, little by little, are doing
their best- to break down the barriers which
keep the thoughts of our island continent
too much at home. Its members are known
as the Modern Languages Association, and
among them they are opening, up the road-
ways to France, Germany, Italy, Spain—
yes, even Russia, though only a few of them,
as yet, have tackled this tree of knowledge.
The other night the Waldorf was turned into
an up-to-date Babel. The programme com-
menced with music from the land of the ill-
starred Alfonso, and went on to songs of
German, French and Italian composers (in-
cluding the pulse-stirring “I Have Wept in
Dreams”) sung sentimentally or gaily by
Fanny Bauer, Dr. Silverton and Bryson
Taylor. Pianist Walter Tliorman accom-
panied in all languages, and later turned
a gentle ear while F. C. Bentivoglio (he’s
the brilliant Dr. Marie’s father) spoke to
the glory of Mussolini, and the- Brices, who
have travelled recently through Russia,
dropped an occasional word about that
much-discussed country. Former Justice
Piddington, who is president of the associa-
tion, visited the different groups, and Lute
Drummond was welcomed everywhere. And
somehow, as a watery moon tried to ride
clear of the clouds above Gcorge-street, the
Winter Palace of Leningrad, the gesticulat-
ing statues of Rome, the vivid boulevards
of. Paris, the linden trees of Germany, the
bright shawls of Spain seemed to draw
closer; and in this stirring of the senses
you remembered that one of the gifts of the
Holy Ghost to the disciples was that of
divers tongues.
Queensland’s quantum:—
Lady Wilson was at the Q.T.C. races in
black liand-woven silk tweed with ivory satin blouse
and black hat. Daughter Marjorie was clad, in navy
with a mastic scarf; the Blair lady chose nut
brown with a black cloth and fur coat; Mrs. E. J.
Watt was in navy, as was Mrs. D’Arey Winten
(Smithfield) ; Mrs. Geoff Barton (Toweran) wore
black. Mrs. M. L. Beading, Tessa Reading and
the Cadell Garricks were amongst the throng on the
lawns.
Laura Smith, so long an active worker in the
interests of the Church of England, and hon.
secretary of the Town and Country Club, has become
Mrs. Tibbets. Mr. W. H. Barnes gave the bride
away and poetess Constance Gittens was matron of
honor for her sister.
This is a bride-month and one big society wedding
in the offing is to be a “cotton” wedding. Wool
has justified itself and now we want to give cotton
a boost. A cactoblastis ceremony, to mark the
extinction of prickly-pear, may be the next item.
The wedding of Kathleen Connolly and Harold
Walsh drew a crowd to St. Patrick’s Cathedral,
Toowoomba. Monsignor McKenna officiated. The
bride was given away by her father; she was in
bisque satin, her soft tulle veil caught with pearls
and orange blossom. Claire Godsall, Kathleen Nolan
and Cecilie Walsh ’maided in gold lace over satin
and little capes caught with gold. Betty Hawthorne
was train-bearer in maize lace. Peach blossom and
sweet-peas decked Drynane for the feast.
At St. John’s Presbyterian church, Thompson
Estate, Wilfred McNamara and Betty Sanderson were
made one. The bride was in ivory satin and tulle
veil. Greta McLelland ’maided in apricot. The
party was at the Astoria.
St. Ignatius’s, Toowong, saw the wedding of Henry
Wallach and Josie Mullan, daughter of the Attorney-
General. The bride, who was given away by her
father, was in white bridal satin with a veil of
Limerick lace. Clare Mullan ’maided in pink and
Nile-green taffetas. The feasting was at Warrawee,
Toowong.
Ambulance funds benefited by the Wool Ball in
the Trocadero arranged by the Brisbane wool-brokers.
R. Sinclair Smith and the Allan Jeffrays were
amongst the official guests. Mrs. Jeffray wore parch-
ment mariette, Mrs. Chris Dixon was in black lace
and Betty Anning in floral primrose taffetas. Forty
bales of scoured wool were part of the decorations.
Marjorie, daughter of the Edward Hills, Rosevale,
Wyandra, is to marry A. A. Anderson, son of the
John Armstrongs, Deniliquin, N.S.W.
Grace, daughter of the Colin Bells, Longreach, is,
engaged to Rowland, son of ex-Judge and Mrs. C.
Jameson, Brisbane. Colin Bell is a brother of the
late J. T. Bell, a former figure in Queensland
politics.


II
SHE FEARED BAD HEALTH
Children love it.
Figsen the gentle
laxative.
CONSTIPATION is
DEPRESSING l DANGEROUS
Constipation is a serious matter —because it is responsible for
many of our present-day ailments. Failure of the system to
eliminate waste matter brings on headaches, indigestion, dizzi-
ness and biliousness. Figsen corrects constipation. Easy to
take and gentle and natural in action. No purging or griping.
Figsen restores natural bowel action without upsetting the most
delicate stomach. For adults and kiddies nothing can take the
place of Figsen.
Sold and recommended by your chemist.
NX
FIGSEN
FOR CONSTIPATION
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
The United Service Institution’s Ball at
the Wattle Path, St. Ivilda, happened on a
damp, foggy night, blit all was bright and
cosy within the dance resort. Uniform tunics
in scarlet and two blues and evening gowns
of the latest shades made the scene colorful.
A guest of honor was Mrs. Bouncy, who
dropped in from the sky on Thursday on her
all-round-Australia solo flight. The aviator,
who sported geranium-red crepe-de-Chine,
was welcomed by the president, Brigadier-
General Jess. The chairman of the dance com-
mittee was Colonel Howard St. Clair, the
lion. sec. being Lieutenant C. N. Peters. Mrs.
Jess blended in her draperies black lace,
chiffon and brown fur, and Mrs. Bruche. who
accompanied her major-general, was in black
chiffon velvet with a shoulder spray of white
camellias. Mrs. H, St. Clair also chose black.
Airs. Eric Harrison, who had a touch of
pink upon her mole-grey gown, was accom-
panied by her husband. Wing-Commander E.
Harrison, and their daughter Greta. A
debutante, in ivory chiffon velvet, was Ina
Whitton, who came with her parents, Colonel
and Airs. AVhitton.i The Lnd Alayor was an
official guest.
Airs. S. P. Alackay gave a party at the
Rex in celebration of her son Peter’s coming-
of-age. She gathered about her many old
friends and a bunch of boys and girls. Peter
now succeeds to tbe legacy of his late step-
brother, Keith, but he does not become en-
titled to his own share in his late father’s
estate until he is 25. The hostess, who
doesn’t look much older than when she
charmed Alelbourne in musical comedy, wore
pink satin of the shade of the centre of
a La France rose, with sparkling shoulder
straps. A velvet coatee of the same shade
as her gown and a spray of orchids com-
pleted the picture. Among the guests were
Air. and Mrs. Fred Krcrouse, she in black
lace; Airs. Charlie Lyon and her daughter
Barbara, Kathleen Rogers Thomson, Valerie
Purves and Airs. Leslie Macdonald.
The Harrison Aloore lady opened the House-
wives’ Association’s new clubrooms at Howey
Court. The taking-over of the premises coin-
cided with the holding of a conference of all
branches of the association, and delegates
were welcomed by Airs. W. Thomas, presi-
dent of the ATc. branch. Airs. A. K. Goode
offered congratulations to the president and
the committee on their progressive policy,
and secretary Rachel Robinson got a round
af applause for her efficiency and interest.
There was an interlude of music, just to
show that the housewives aren’t entirely con-
cerned with H.G.L.
The Women’s Hospital had its linen cup-
board replenished by a gift tea to which 200
members of the Hospital auxiliaries con-
tributed towels, sheets and such necessities.
In the absence through illness of Mrs. James
Alston, president of the hospital, the vice-
president. Mrs. Percy Russell, took charge,
assisted by Airs. D. A. Skene, Mrs. George
Langridge, Aliss Triller and others. A pro-
gramme of music was arranged by Prof.
Bernard Ileinze, among the performers being
pianists Raymond Lambert and Mauricette
AlacGillicuddy, and songbirds Audrey Ander-
son and Violet Collinson.
Mrs. R. G. Casey, in black crepe romaine
gown, with touch of rose-pink and a shiny
black hat, presided over a luncheon at Men-
zie.s’ that was by way of farewell to her
niece, Mrs. Arthur Bullivant, who is return-
ing to her station home in N. S. Wales.
A Dickinson-Alonteath camera pictures
here Airs. Harvey Smith, of Upper Beacons-
field, who, as
on m a n y
former occa-
sions, judged
the plain sew-
ing at the
R.A.S. Show.
This year the
standard of ex-
cellence was
very li i g li,
and the work-
in a n ship of
two competi-
tors in the
making of a
flannel shirt
was so even
that the judge
had to dead-
beat them for
first money.
To Mrs. Smith
also fell the
deciding of
the winners in the knitting sections, in
which there were many meritorious entries.
In the needlework section at the R.A.S.
show there were a couple of trousseau sets
and other exhibits of underwear that would
grace any age since needles were invented.
Airs. Kathleen Parker’s winning set of three
pieces in the trousseau class was of white
handkerchief lawn, eyelet embroidered, hem-
stitched. and having fronts of cobwebby
hand-made lace. Mrs. C. J. Dwyer, who
has won many laurels, was represented by
an exquisite infant’s frock and bonnet all
in white hanky linen, featuring eyelet and
buttonhole stitchery and an adorable pink
crepe-de-Chine nightie, trailed with pale blue
and yellow blossoms. Olive Garden, another
legular prize-gatherer, showed white em-
ovoid ere d handkerchiefs, monograms and
other samples of needlecraft. Roma Field’s
most striking achievement this year was a
«uest towel worked m the finest cross-stitcli,
hk £ Petit point. Mrs. D. E. Thomas
v I o of! honors with a filmy crochet-
bordered su-pper-cloth. *
Jir ™ ost colorful patch in a Show that: was
much as other Shows was the steer-riding
competition. Three stockmen wore scarlet
shirts and wide-brimmed hats and cracked
whips continuously about a very small mob
of very tame cattle, while out from a tem-
porarily-erected compound bounded in turn
several riders, bdrebaek upon black steers.
Neither whips nor spurs were used on the
beasties, and the riders clung to a strap of
leather to which was attached a bell. Very
few of them came to grief, though there
was a bit of a stir when a bullock endeavored
to climb the high barricade.
Time was when samples were given away
at the Show. Some still are, but in most
cases they are sold, considerable cleverness
being shown in the composition of miscel-
laneous parcels, most of which contained
something for the children —a ruler, a game
or a paper glider—the lot for sixpence
or a shilling. Some of these collections, were
purveyed in tiny suitcases, shaped like trav-
elling-trunks, and others in pretty little
Noah’s Arks.
On its stand at the Show the Forests
Commission had some exhibits that would
have vastly interested “Hop,” whose hobby
was fiddle-making. These were a coupie
of violins, made from beautifully-figured
blaekwood and musk, the timber being from
Apollo Bay. Szigeti examined those instru-
ments, which were made by H. R. Johnson,
of Kew, and praised them, though he had
to explain that, as in the case of all new
fiddles, a great deal of time will be required
before they can attain mellowness of tone. In
the course of clearing out bushlairds thousands
of tons of such timbers have been destroyed,
and the destruction still continues for lack
of a market. The Forests Commission, with
Mr. Johnson’s aid, has been able to demon-
strate that these woods are applicable to
the very, highest purposes, and the advei’-
tisement should be of value.
Miss Marion Montgomery engineered a
dance for the senior pupils of the C. of E.
Girls’ Grammar School, the hop taking place
in the Phelia Grimwade House. Some of
the young folk aided her as ticket-secre-
taries. Miss Gilman Jones, the head mis-
tress. joined the gathering wearing black
velvet. The elders played bridge, filling 30
tables.
St. John's, Toorak, was bright with golden-
tinted flowers for the knot-tying of Mollie,
otherwise
Mary, daugh-
ter of the
late William
Dalrymple, of
Winton an d
Ararat, to Cap-
tain Douglas 11.
Magee, of the
Green Howards
Regiment. The
wedding gown
was magnolia
liued satin
with a sprink-
ling of seed
pearls. Pearls
also adorned
the smart little
cape. There
was no veil,
the coiffure
being cov-
ered with a
c 1 o s e-fitting
cap of tulle bordered with creamy flowers.
Dorothy Langlands, Jack and Dolly Read were
the attendant ’maids, in frilly frocks of
apricot-colored georgette and wreaths of
pastel-shaded flowers. Captain Sydney Dal-
rymple, the bride’s brother, and his wife
entertained many guests afterwards. Broo-
thorn made this picture of Mrs. Magee.
Mrs. Joseph White, captain of the C
pennant team, was hostess of a gathering
of associates of the Yarra Yarra G.C. Mrs.
White gave her fellow-players as mementoes
of the occasion silver serviette-rings bearing
the club badge, the team reciprocating with
the gift of a silver muffin-dish, handed to
the skipper by Mrs. Austin Gatehouse.
J. M. Condon, of the Shell Co., organised
an outing to Sassafras, the programme in-
cluding a football match, a dinner-dance and
a concert in the local Mechanics’ Institute.
Profits went to lift the debt on the M. I.
hall. Over 80 carloads journeyed from the
city for the picnic, which was blessed with
fine weather and a full moon.
At the Austral Salon’s at-home, stage-
managed and organised by Alba Zacutti in
the interests of the Children’s Hospital,
soprano Pauline Bindley, contralto Mary
Mack and A. Brudenall sang, Reginald
Bradley was there with his fiddle and
Chandler’s orchestra and entertainer Iza
Crossley contributed to the programme. The.
stage was decked with daffodils and peach
blossoms with a backcloth depicting green
lawns and tall poplars. Mrs. J. L. Stein
was responsible for the layout. Sprays of
flowers were sold by Heather Stein in a
frock of primrose organdie.
P. M. Carew-Smyth launched Janie
Whyte’s show of paintings and etchings at
the Athenaeum Gallery. Miss Whyte’s mid-
night-blue velvet frock peeped beneath a top-
coat of the same shade, and black and yellow
daisies wound around her shiny blue straw
hat.
A bright little show was “H.M.S. Eliza-
beth.” a musical comedy put on by St. Ivilda
charity workers. Stan 11. Power wrote and
produced the play, Mrs. Stan Power de-
signed the costumes, and Gwen Goldman
arranged ballets and ensembles. Agnes E.
McClelland waved the baton over the
orchestra. The most striking ballet was
that featuring twelve fair air-pilots in steel-
blue shiny satin uniforms, who concluded
their turn by marching off in the formation
of an aeroplane.
Painter Dora Wilson is to be seen any
sunny day.with her easel set up in some city
thoroughfare. She is gathering material for
a show of her work, but is frequently mis-
taken for a mendicant and rewarded with
pennies. Last week when a woman handed
her a handful of coins the painter tried to
explain that she wasn’t begging, but her
benefactor persisted, saying: “Take them.
Your work is good, and you should go on.”
The opening seem: of “The Good Fairy,”
performed by the Margaret Rawlings co. at
the King’s on Saturday, is a private room of
a fashionable hotel in Vienna, with nattier-
blue and silver brocade curtains and match-
ing furniture and a couple'of silver-framed
oval mirrors dangling from silver cords
with great tassels. There is a silver white
lame tablecloth and a bit of the same
material fashions the waiter’s coat. Into
this setting trips Miss Rawlings, in a cream
curtain-net gown with a cherry-red sash and
matching coatee. She makes her appearance
in the last scene in a gown of silver that has
an immense ruche of tulle of three hues —
blue, black and white —about the foot of
the skirt and around the back of the low-
cut bodice. Among the first-nighters were
the Felix Lloyds, Mrs. Percy Blackbourn,
accompanied by Helen Rennie; knight Robert
Best and daughter Helene, the Aubrey
Gibsons, Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Liston and
Mrs. Geoffrey. The John Taits were in a
box and the Charlie Taits viewed the play
from the stalls.
The musical play “Tangerine” was per-
formed at the Princess by the Catherine
Neill Players for charity. The show, with
its colorful setting of an island in the South
Seas, the dusky belles of which were arrayed
in gay saris in batik designs, ran smoothly.
•Tames H. Davey was the king of the island
and Alice Wells was the leading lady.
Tas. tea-table talk:—
The energetic folk who were responsible for the
recent Wembley Show at the City Hall wound up
with a ball at which the Lieut.-Gov. was able to
hand the Mayor a cheque for some hundreds of
pounds. About 500 dancers footed it and fancy
dances by Beattie Jordan and her pupils infused
variety into the programme.
A committee of bright young people ran a dance
in aid of the Tassie fund at I.indfield, Holebrook
Place. Katherine Pitt did the secretarial job,. The
decorations were largely nautical, a ship’s bell,
anchors and a netful of crayfish being features in
the scheme. The supper-room sported a fine model
yacht and photos, of the three Tassies occupied
places of honor.
• Phyllis May, only chick of Mr. and Mrs. H.
Loueadou-Wells, Launceston, and Daniel, only son
of Lance and the late Mrs. L. Archer, Longford,
were made one by the Rev. D. Ross-Hewton at' St.
John’s, Launceston. The bride wore a long-sleeved
frock of ivory marocain and wool lace, and an
embroidered net and tulle veil. The ’maids were
Helen Mundy, in flowered Lido-blue georgette, with
straw' hat to tone, and the bridegroom’s sister
Betty, in flowered pink chiffons, with pink hat.. The
wedding party celebrated at the Metropole after
the ceremony; the bride’s going-away rig was a
pansy-brown soft woollen suit with hat of pineapple
straw trimmed with a bunch of cherries.
The Hockey Carnival held in the North., with a
sort of postscript day or so in the South, was
keenly appreciated by both visiting and local teams.
Miss A. H. Imrie, Victorian coach and Scottish
international player, pronounces that our hockey has
improved out of sight since her last visit.
Mrs. Phil Bowden, one of Hobart’s youngest
brides—she was the Herman Hutchiiisons’ youngest
daughter—is now in Russia with her husband. Dr.
Bowden’s specialty is research work among new
vitamins, and this procured him an invitation to
lecture on the subject,
Mrs. W. D’Arcy Seddon, formerly Maisie Cameron,
is paying a visit to her old home, Mona Vale, Ross.
Glenorchy Municipality has appointed a woman
magistrate to the Children’s Court —Mrs. Norman
Booth, an excellent choice.
Adelaide annals:—
The attendance at Port Adelaide Racing Club’s
meeting held at Cheltenham suffered somewhat from
the Show. In the absence of Mrs. A. V. Benson,
in Westralia, Mrs. A. F, Lynch was acting-hostess
with Dr. Benson at the committee tea. She wore a
smart leaf-brown tailored suit with a shiny, brown
straw hat. Brown was the popular shade worn.
A tragic occurrence at the Royal Show on Saturday
was the death of Bessie Douglas-Stock, of Victor
Harbor, one of our best-known horsewomen. Her
mount blundered at a jump in front of the grand-
stand and threw her. Her skull was fractured and
she died that same night.
A bright dance was held at the residence of Mi',
and Mrs. Sidney Reid, South-terrace, the hostesses
being Mrs. Reid and her sister Mrs. Sidney Ayers,
of Clare. The ballroom was massed with lovely
daffodils. Mrs. Reid wore a black romaine toilette
wit{i a velvet coatee, and her sister was gowned
in black ring velvet. Miss Joan Reid chose black
marocain, the corsage studded with colored stones.
The Bishop of Adelaide and Mrs. Nutter Thomas
gave two garden parties while the Anglican Synod
was in session. His Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven
were present at the first one. A musical programme
was rendered in the drawing-room, the Bishop and
his daughter Ursula both taking part.
One of the most attractive features at the Show
was the fine display in tabloid gardens and the
competition was keen. President Walter Duncan
entertained at tea with Mrs. Duncan, who wore a
black tailored coat with a skunk fur and a small
black hat. His Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven w'ere
present, and the social world was well represented.
Lady Hore-Ruthven was wearing a black facecloth
coat with brown fox fur collar and a wide-brimmed
black shiny straw hat. with a band of beetroot
velvet. Mrs. L. L. Hill and the Mayoress were
in the official party.
The metropolitan branch of the Country Women's
Association entertained the country visitors during
Show week at the residence of Mrs. C. E. Barrett,
where the guests were received on the lawn by the
president, Mrs. C. E. Dolling. Afternoon tea was
‘served by the members of the younger set.
The dance on the Manunda materially helped the
Toe H funds, thanks to the liberality of the Adelaide
Steamship Company, which provided not only the
setting, but music and supper as well. About 700
were present. The secretaries, Captain T. E. Barr
Smith and Mr. Dudley Mathews, had a. busy time.
His Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven, the Premier and
Mrs. Hill were present.
Swan-side socialities:—
Grads, and undergrads, stepped out briskly at the
’Varsity-Blue Ball. Green beacons, their reflections
sunk among shimmering columns in the artificial
lake, burned upon Winthrop Hall. Supper was in
the refectory amidst clumps of kangaroo-paws. Blues
were handed to 18 athletic members of the guild
by Dr. Battye. Among the dancers were a bunch
of Uncle Sam’s Y.A.L. boys with a diversity of
accents and unusual names. Mrs. J. McMillan wore
lime-green satin; Joan McKenna’s choice was a
blush of shell-pink; Pat Sanderson chose a mustard
tint; black laces found favor with Dorothy Forbee
and Margot Law; Jean Smith’s satins reflected an
emerald sheen; Vance Anderson had a fluttery capelet
to her white and China-blue organdie; black velvets
dashed with white were wrapped about Marjorie
Cusack; the Malloch twins wore pink with floating
plumes upon their shoulders; an old rose bow-
bobbed upon the hip-line of Dorothy McClemans’s
white ninon; Verna Hall chose prawn-pink; Mollie
Lloyd’s emerald laces were noticeable; Betty Clements
wore black and a twinkle of rhinestones in her hair.
Demurely clad in white, members of the rEolian
Choir trouped upon the Karrakatta Club’s platform
for a recital. They sang sweetly five groups of
songs to the beat of Doreen Bray’s baton. Mrs.
Florence Dain gave an excerpt from “Anthony and
CleopatrS'' and a trio of simpler poems. Zlata
Kalmikoff helped along the programme with her
’cello and the nimble fingers of Doreen Bray and
Flora Bunining twinkled through some brilliant
two-piano works. Miss Bunning and Ailsa Randell
accompanied with their usual skill.
The Commercial Travellers’ Association held revel
in Temple Court. Specialty numbers varied the
programme of dances and supper was an affair of
long tables and pink and gold flowers in the
restaurant. Noticed among the hundreds present
was Mrs. Manning in strawberry georgettes with a
detachable coatee; Mrs. Treadgold wore blue and
black ninon and net; Mrs. Strickland’s black was
attached to silver shoulder-straps; Bonnie Spencer
was a slim wisp in her water-green laces; Betty
Simpson wore her peach-pink frock and Joan Drum-
mond danced in cafS-au-lait; Dorothy Beasley’s sky-
blue had a knotted sash lined with pink; much
pin-tucking trimmed Helen Woc-dhouse’s ivory
taffetas.
Fon and Jean Eastwood, of Peppermint Grove, have
hidden away their respective certificates of nursing
and kindergartening and have opened the June
Elizabeth for luncheons and teas. Their wide and
airy room has browny furnishings and decorative
oils upon its walls. Fon is cook and Jean waitress,
and excellent jobs they make of it.


AS EW SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
“Why does her husband allow it?” said
a woman sitting next to me [Sappho Smith]
in a Sydney dress-circle the other evening,
looking across at a matron whose d6colletc
was rather astonishing—“l thought he was
a rabid prude over bare shoulders.” But,
to me, the bare-back show of the woman who
is always clothed severely to her ear-lobes
when Augustus is along didn’t call for the
least surprise. For once, when I had a
fedious wait in a theatre cloak-room, I gath-
ered how matrons arrange a regular meta-
morphosis in the garments they leave home
in. The lady who introduced me to the
trick had a rich, black-beaded gown, with
a deep yoke fore and aft of passementerie,
all very nice, and according to the lord and
master’s ukase, I have no doubt; but guess
my surprise when, in a twinkle, she un-
hooked that yoke fore and aft and tucked
it where the cotton-wool usually goes, and
stood revealed in a shrieking see-more
jacket! From her fan she took a cluster
of red roses and pinned them in a festive
position, and then, with a final flourish of
the powder-pad, she sailed forth to conquer.
What would happen if hubby chanced to
stroll in front on some of these occasions is
quite beyond the conjecture of yours truly.
[1891.]
BLACKMAILING AN AUNT.
My aunt Butterby ought to have been a
man; there was no doubt about that. She
was the most close-fisted old cat that ever
owned a large bank account. The profes-
sional beggars, women and parsons, had long
since given her up as a hopeless case. She
was my late father’s sister, a maiden lady of
nearly 50 years, and one of the sharpest
business women in Sydney.
If I had mentioned to any of her acquaint-
ances that I intended applying to her for a
loan I should have been greeted with scorn-
ful laughter. For all that, my resolution
was taken —by hook or by crook, Aunt
Butterby must be made to stand and deliver.
She hated me. She hated the Potts Point
society in which I was trying to maintain a
precarious footing on the income of a clerk
in the Lands. She hated pretty girls, and
it was the fact of being in love with one of
extra prettiness which caused me to be in
such desperate financial straits:.
The circle in which my masculine aunt
moved was composed of hard-headed business
folk, who looked at me with scorn. Men
with plenty of girth, who never read a line
beyond the newspapers.
It was after a sleepless night that I arose
one Saturday morning with my plan fully
developed. By many reckless expedients I
had got together the sum of £5. This formed
my modest capital for levying toll on Aunt
Butterby. She lived at Enmore in a house
of her own, and
thither I made my
way.
Roc Villa was the
name of the place,
and in due course I
was ushered in by
my aunt’s grim ser-
vant. My wealthy re-
lative merely nodded
and regarded me
sternly.
“My dear aunt,” I
began, “I am in
great trouble and dis-
tress.”
_ She maintained her
silence and I stam-
mered on—“ Kno-
wing the kindness of
your heart, I have
come to you for help.”
H'ere there was a
snort of wrath and
a lean forefinger
pointed to the door.
“A little assist-
ance now may
save me from dis-
grace”—
“Just what I ex-
pected. Embezzler,
thief! Go and hang
yourself,” said my
aunt still pointing to
the door.
I went. I only
wanted to give the
old lady one more
chance and prime
myself for the deed.
At the door I paused.
“Farewell; and when
you come to me for
assistance may you
find me less hard-
hearted.”
But I had other
work to do at En-
more. In that
suburb, but in a
somewhat obscure
part of it, there re-
sided a horsey man of
doubtful character,
with whom, in my character of amateur
“sport,” I had become acquainted. At present
he was as down on his luck as I was. I
sought him out and we had a long conver-
sation.
“It’s just this way, Mr. Butterby,” he
said, at the conclusion of our talk; “there's
no harm in it, I know; but it’s the chaff
I’ll get slung at me and the fights which
will have to be fought. When I tell a man
as I’ve changed my name ’cos I’ve come into
a bit of property, why, he’ll tell me straight,
I’m a liar. However, I’ll do it for "the
money.”
“And what about the name of the
house?” I asked.
“That’ll be correct. When I pay up
some o’ the back rent I can call it
just what I please.”
On Monday morning, my aunt, who still
retained the feminine practice of glancing
first at the first column of the morning paper,
looked —read —gave one awful shriek and
fainted for the first and last time. The ser-
vants who came to revive her read on the
fatal sheet:—
BUTTERBY. —At her residence, Roc Villa, Enmore,
June 1, 1884. Mrs. Louisa Anne Butterby, of a
daughter. Country papers please copy.
When she came to herself and controlled her
feelings sufficiently to examine the horrid
thing, the date puzzled her: “1884,” and
this was 1893. My aunt consulted her
lawyer. This was evidently a villainous out-
rage on a respectable maiden lady, and the
perpetrators must be punished. The lawyer
took her instructions, and, in due time, com-
municated with her. Nothing could be done
in the matter. The advertisement was
genuine, inserted by a man who stated that
he had lately assumed the name of Butterby
with a little property that had come to him.
It was a fancy of his wife’s to now com-
memorate the birth of all her children, and,
added the lawyer, “he has eight of them.”
My aunt looked at that morning’s paper;
there was the notice again, excepting that
the date was altered to July, 1885. Strong-
minded woman as she was, she shuddered at
the prospect before her. Already she had
had to endure most indelicate chaff, for com-
mercial magnates are not particularly refined.
She felt that she must act personally.
Next morning found her at the door of a
poor habitation, which, however, bore, in
fresh new paint, the title of “Roc Villa.”
Mr. Butterby, late Mangles, received her
personally. My aunt came to the point at
once, and demanded the reason of that gentle-
man’s late proceedings.
“I will be frank with you, Mum, lie
returned. “I took the name of Butterby
after a dear young gentleman who saved my
life. It is all I could do to show my grati-
tude, and I’ve done it.”
“But that is no reason why you should go
on publishing the births of all your child-
Yen. 19
“That, ma’am, is an idea of my wife’s. We
had a bit of money left us, and she thinks
it the fashionable thing to do—she’s a rare
one for style.”
“What was the
Christian name of
the young man who,
you say, saved your
life?”
“His name, Mum,
was Alexander.”
My aunt glanced
round the shabby
room.
“If I gave you five
pounds, would you
cease this absurd
thing and take your
proper name again?”
The late Mr. Man-
gles shook his head.
"No, Mum, if so be
the young gentleman
asked me hisself, I
might think of it,
but as to the other
thing, my wife’s
heart is just set on
it, and being in a
delicate condition —
expecting, in fact —
my crossing her now
might be the death
of her.”
My aunt swept out
of the place and
me. I had prepared
1886, Mrs. Louisa
morning, amongst the
times. When Flin-
east coast of Aus-
ders started for his
Anne Butterby had
tralia in 1802 he
w’ent home. Next
second trip along the
tion of the early
of the present day is
The rum-drinking
with twins.
for this.
only a feeble imita-
lation came to see
presented her spouse
That day my re-
births, appeared the
pounds. [l/4/93.]
I got my hundred
IsnSny ui impj }OBJ
took 1483 gallons of rum, purchased from
an American vessel for 6s. 6d. per gallon'
The old pioneer timber-getters on the coast
rivers of N. S. Wales bought rum in hogs-
heads and drank it out of a bucket. “What’s
a gallon o’ rum among one of us?” was the
indignant query of one of these ancient war-
riors. And when we sec a modern bush-
man paralytically drunk, and emitting snores
like unto the croaks of a green frog after a
pitiful half-dozen nips of colonial rum or
imported whisky, we cannot refrain from
shedding tears over the degeneracy of this
effeminate age and the departure of the glori-
ous cast-iron robustness of the past. In
justice to the present, however, we must
remember that in the early days there was
no “very old matured Jamaica,” made six
weeks before in Sydney, nor any “famous
old Scotch whisky 10 years in bond” manu-
factured from chemicals in a Brisbane cellar ;
and that even Flinders’ sailors and the cedar-
getters of ’45 would be knocked out after
a few days’ sojourn at the average public-
house of 1891. We can therefore congratu-
late the old hands in having wisely died in
time, in the company and under the influ-
ence of good spirits. [3l/1/91.]
People don’t know half the tricks perpe-
trated by a well-known Sydney swindler,
erst of high commercial degree, now in gaol.
He borrowed money on the deeds of a house
and ground, and then deposited them with
a certain bank. Next day he called in at
the bank and asked for a loan of the papers,
AT TAMBAROORA
“You know them fellows Dibbs sent up
here fossicking? Have they struck
anything?”
“Yes, they’ve struck my hen-roost."
[A. J. Fischer. —30/9/93.]
as he wished to make some extracts from
them. The manager, having the most per-
fect confidence in him, without demur let
him have the securities —which he at once
took and pawned with another bank. The
second bank registered its mortgage. Then
our friend turned up at the second bank, got
a loan of the deeds as before, and returned
them to bank No. 1. Some time later he
turned up just at the second bank’s closing
time, and sat on the edge of the table in
the office of the manager, amiably conversing
with that potentate and wasting much time.
Presently the manager said he had to catch
A CHEERFUL BRIDAL-TOUR.
HIS BRIDE NO 2: “Oh, Mr.—that is, Henry—there’s something
awful cold at my foot!”
EX-WIDOWER: “Oh, it’s all right, my dear, it’s only my first wife’s
headstone. I thought I might as well bring it along as
make another trip for it.” [“Hop.” —26/8/93.]
his trajn instanter, whereupon the specu-
lator: “You had better put this into the
safe,” handing him a brown-paper parcel
containing something about the size of the
mortgaged and “borrowed” deeds. The man-
ager grabbed the packet, slung it into the
safe and slammed the door kerslap. The
deeds weren’t in the brown-paper parcel, but
that fact wasn’t discovered for quite a long
while. [2O/6/91.]
Last week in a Sydney, tram a would-be
young lady wore a hat with a baud which
displayed in the centre the Queen’s head in
gold ; red, white and blue flags to left and
right; on one side the date 1837, on the other
1897. Such loyalty in a middle-aged girl is
liable to be misinterpreted as proof of how
long she has been wearing that hat.
[l2/6/97 —the Golden Jubilee Year.]
Hunks and Dunks are squatter neighbors
in the north of West Australia. Dunks one
day passed Hunks’s homestead and ventured
to “borrow a fill of tobacco.” “Take a stick,”
said Hunks, and a fig of the weed changed
hands. A few days later came an account:
“To one fig of tobacco, Is.” On another
occasion Dunks got out of Hunks’s store one
clay pipe, five nails and a twopenny stamp.
Billed accordingly. Some time after, Hunks
made a surprise call on Dunks and produced
a bottle of whisky. Dunks’s overseer was
present. Hunks proposed a “wee dram.”
Carried nemconiously. Dunks and his over-
seer began to think old Hunks wasn’t such
a desperately bad fellow after all. Just
then, in came Splunks. Moved, seconded and
adopted that another drink be taken. Then
Hunks, holding the bottle up to the light in
order to show by how much the seven
“snifters” had lowered the flood level, re-
marked : “ ’Tisn’t any use my taking that
home. I’ll leave it with ye, and ye can send
me another bottle of whisky at your leisure.”
[23/5/91.1
One of the three Queensland Civil Service
Commissioners is Michael O’Malley, for many
years C.P.S. at Ipswich, afterwards Police
Magistrate at several towns, and
Sheriff of North Queensland.
There is no truer man in the civil
service. He is a Hibernian of
that good old school which thought
that “b’ating a foe” was just as
imperative a duty as “tr’ating a
frind.” Here is one episode told
by a man who was present. At
that time in Ipswich there was
a police officer, built on a large
scale, and of an offensively aggres-
sive disposition. This local
tyrant was walking along with
an old lame Irish gardener, who
carried a stick to assist his pro-
gress. Suddenly the officer struck
the ancient horticulturist a blow,
knocked him down, took away his
stick and walked on—to meet
O’Malley coming up in the oppo-
site direction. “You are a
cowardly scoundrel to strike that
old man!” said O'Malley. “I’ll
give you a lick with this stick,
said the bould trap—who found
himself unexpectedly lying on his
back, and the stick in the hand of.O]Malley.
who belted him with great impartiality over
the entire length and breadth of his anatomy;
after which the wielder of the cudgel
walked joyfully home, at peace with all
mankind.
[l7/1/91.]
WHEN I AM OLD.
When I am old
And my short span of years—■
Of mingled smiles and tears —
Is nearly told,
What will the bright world be?
What will it seem to me
When I am old?
When I am old
Will Life’s sun roll away
In evening mists of grey
And shadowy fold?
Or in a golden light
Sink softly into night,
When I am old?
When I am old
Shall I find old friends true?
Shall I find others new
My hand to hold?
Will friendship prove to be
A bitter mockery
When I am old?
HIS LITTLE MISTAKE.
INEBRIATED DUTCHMAN ( arrested, in a conciliatory tone) : “Long
life fer der Pope."
CONSTABLE MORIARTY (with suppressed ferocity): “Thot’s tin
days exthry f’r yez, me b’y. It’s an Orangeman ye’re
talkin’ to!” [Phil May. —26/5/’88.]
When I am old—
Who knows how great the change,
What hearts the years estrange?—
Should yours grow cold,
Then every bitter breath
Shall be a prayer for death
When I am old !
When I am old
Surely thou shalt be near;
No rusting years shall sear
Thy heart’s true gold!
May the great gods of grace
Grant me my light—thy face,
When I am old!
[27/3/’97.]
ZADIG.


Missing Friends.
JOHN RYAN and JULIA RYAN.
JOHN RYAN and JULIA RYAN (for-
J merly Julia Darcy) were married at St.
Peter’s Church, Daylesford Victoria, on 31st
December, 1865, and it is believed that the
issue of such marriage included:—
Valentine, born November, 1866,
Catherine, born April, 1868, and
Denis, born in or about 1869.
PERTH A SEEDORF, commonly known as
Bertha Liebow (formerly Bertha or Bridget
Ryan), a daughter of the above-mentioned
John Ryan and Julia Ryan, died at Mount
Lawley, Western Australia, in November,
1930, and Letters of Administration of her
Estate have been granted by the Supreme
Court of Western Australia to The Perpetual
Executors Trustees and Agency Company
(W.A.). Limited, whose registered office is
at St. George’s Terrace, Perth, in the said
State of Western Australia.
The said John Ryan and Julia Ryan and
the said Valentine Ryan, Catherine Ryan
and Denis Ryan, or, if they or any of them
be dead, their personal representatives or
next of kin are requested to communicate
immediately with The Perpetual Executors
Trustees and Agency Company (W.A.),
Limited, at the above address.
Dated this 12th day of July. 1932.
ACKLAND AND WATKINS.
Perpetual Trustees Buildings, Perth,
Solicitors for the Company.
Missing Friends.
Re JOSEPH HENRY OLDFIELD—
Deceased.
(Sometime known as Henry Moore),
late of Lottah, in Tasmania.
WILL HERBERT GEORGE BUR-
GOYNE, a nephew of the above-named
deceased, last heard of at Grafton about
twelve months ago, or anyone knowing his
whereabouts please communicate with the
Public Trustee, Hobart V
Legal Notices.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1119 of 1932.
Between JOSEPHINE VIOLET DINGLE Petitioner
And HENRY WISE DINGLE Respondent.
To HENRY WISE DINGLE.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Josephine Violet
Dingle lias commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying that her marriage
with you may be dissolved wherein she alleges that
you have been guilty of desertion for three years
and upwards. AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said suit at
the proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Second day of December One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-two and in the event of your-
not doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit will be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the Petition filed herein
may be had on application from the undersigned
Solicitor free of charge.
Dated this 9th day of September, 1932.
For the Registrar,
[l.s.] E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ROBERT SPROULE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND
Wellington District.
No. 3990.
In Divorce.
To DOROTHY DAVIDSON of Sydney New South
Wales Married Woman.
TAKE NOTICE that your husband JOHN CECIL
DAVIDSON has filed a Petition for divorce against
you in this Court on the grounds that you have
been guilty of adultery with John Davies.
And to JOHN DAVIES of Sydney New South Wales'
Commercial Traveller.
TAKE NOTICE that JOHN CECIL DAVIDSON
of Pahiatua New Zealand Engineer has filed a
Petition for divorce against his wife DOROTHY
DAVIDSON in this Court on the grounds that you
have been guilty of adultery with the said Dorothy
Davidson.
AND each of you the said Dorothy Davidson and
John Davies TAKE NOTICE that unless you enter
an appearance and file an answer in the said Court
at Wellington within 30 days from the appearance
of this advertisement the said Petition will be
heard and determined in your absence.
Dated at Wellington this 6th day of September,
1932.
(L.s.) C. MASON,
Deputy Registrar.
GEORGE HAROLD SMITH is the Solicitor for the
Petitioner, whose address for service is at the
offices of Messieurs Young, White and Courtney,
Solicitors, 100-102 Customhouse Quay, Wellington,
New Zealand.
NOTICE TO NEXT-OF-KIN.
7?E JEANNETTE BUTTERFIELD formerly JEAN-
NETTE ALDRED nee JEANNETTE HAY late
of Herston Brisbane in Hie State of Queensland
widow deceased.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled to the estate of the above-
named JEANNETTE BUTTERFIELD formerly
JEANNETTE ALDRED nee JEANNETTE HAY
deceased or any part thereof are hereby required
to forward proof of their claims to the Public
Curator Brisbane Queensland on or before the
twenty-eighth day of March 1933. AND THAT after
the expiration of the aforesaid date the Public
Curator Brisbane will proceed to distribute the
assets of the said deceased disregarding the claims
of which he shall not have had notice and of all
persons claiming by through or under them or any
of them by derivative title or otherwise.
DATED at Brisbane this Sixteenth day of Sep-
tember, 1932.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to the Public Curator,
Brisbane, Queensland.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a ivomanjieeds to know.
Si
m:
m
1 1 .
mar
■ i
m
....
M
sMft
<1 I 1
;-o
9
i ■ a
Ml
il
Made from the
whole, rich, sun-
ripened wheat
grain.
They are a per-
fect health food,
extremely easy
to digest. When
eaten for break-
fast they give
you a light, ener-
getic feeling in
the busy morn-
ing hours, TRY
THEM, with
Butter, Cheese,
jam or Honey.
Manufactured
by
William
Arnott
Limited,
The Biscuit
Specialists
of sixty-four
years’
experience.
AHMQTHre
FAMOUS
□
DJID
BISCUITS
Made in
Australia,
Financed by
Australians,
and produced
by highly
trained
Australian
workers.
EVERY GROCER KEEPS THEM
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES
E ! W".
~v
z*sa
tii
*:
«fr . ~ ’ /
/•*
'Wiis* >
*
£&h
' • A—"
;
£>
m
r
sT=-T*
llhampion RESERVE
It PORT
K'fr
c gOTTUED BY THE makers
-j-ROMAS HARDY &SONS LIMITER
rAD c;'.»;°‘ rJsTB» L ,*' v*;°"**
1 PINT 6 FLUID Qzs
r
Fortunate
Tintara
OLD-tinted by the vays of a happy
sun, the broad vineyards o£ Tin-
tara smile and gladden to a rich
success.
The dominating factors of purity and
excellence, which have achieved for
Hardy’s Champion Reserve Wine (Gold
Label) their enviable popularity, were
created ou these glowing fields.
The fact that Hardys place these
very high-quality wines before the
public at such moderate prices
sets their competitors furiously
to think.
Procurable at all Hotels and
Licensed Stores which spe-
cialise in stocking the higher
grades oj wines.
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Lily Christine,” at Sydney Regent, is an-
other indication —“Aren’t We All?”, marred
only by its Americanised cabaret sequence,
was tlie first—that, at long last, English
films are becoming really good, and, what is
more. English. An American directed it
and the star is Corinnc Griffith, yet it m
as English as Lord’s. The writer remarked
some time back that the movies need ‘ 1
exotic who doesn’t look like a drug-addict,
or words to that effect. Here she is-
Gorinne Griffith is Aden’s short-sighte
heroine in all respects; a benign, Junoesque
creature with every feminine virtue, except,
commonsense. But if she had had tnat
she wouldn’t have let Colin Clive give her
a cigarette in her bedroom at midnight wit 1
the servants hanging about, or appealed to
the better feelings of a husband-stealer, 01
taken off her glasses before walking through
the traffic near the Artillery Memorial; and
there would have been no story. I here isn t
much as it is. She and Colin CUve uke
each, other on sight; their respective spouses
are unworthy, and circumstances eventually
drive them into each other’s arms. 1 hat
is all it amounts to.
The attractions of the picture. . which
everyone who knows and loves. England
should see, are the brilliant casting (Miss
Griffith has an American voice, but so, ot
course, have many English wives, and hers
is more beautiful than most English voices) ;
the homely English houses and rooms, a
pleasing change, from the palaces furnished
by interior decorators of so many American
films, and the restraint of the acting
there isn’t a Hollywood kiss from start to
finish. It now remains for Australian
movie-audiences to get used to conven-
tions which, evidently, are as strange to
them as they are to most Americans. There
were ill-timed giggles all through “Lily
Christine” on Saturday night., . and the
management showed its appreciation of
the local taste by making it subsidiary to
“Man About Town.” A phenomenon which
our audiences will have to accept before
they can enjoy accurate portrayals of Eng-
lish upper middle-class life is the hero with-
out panache; the sort who wears his clothes
carelessly, and doesn’t strike attitudes.
Colin Clive with his unexciting ways is the
type.
Warner Baxter, the star" of “Man About
Town”—a Washington secret service melo-
drama—has plenty of panache. It is the
secret of his charm. His clothes fit like
a new glove and glitter like a patent-
leather shoe; he walks with the self-
conscious pride of a Roman emperor or a
Chicago gangster, shoots like a gunman,
punches like a pug and woos like an eroto-
maniac. Such is the formula for a well-
bred man in a common variety of Holly-
wood film, and there is no doubt about its
popularity here. In this picture Karen
Morley, whom Baxter and his friend Conway
Tearle love with equal intensity, murders
a blackmailer. Tearle, who is a policeman
of sorts, finds out, but nobly destroys the
evidence so that she may make his rival
happy. A vast amount has been spent on
tins balderdash’, some of the sets are mag-
nificent, and the big crowds have been
handled with great skill.
# ¥ *
“Lady with a Past,” at the State, is the
fourth or fifth talkie Sydney has seen about
an American girl who is shunned by eligibl.es
at home, and chased after a trip to Paris.
It is more ridiculous than the others because
Constance Bennett, when first seen, is neither
less nor more alluding than the simpering,
muffin-faced lass whose indifference drives
a Parisian rou6 to suicide. Joan Bennett,
in a recent picture with the same plot, was
at least a frump first and a mannequin
afterwards. Constance Bennett sits at a
table outside one of those cafes where pure
women never do sit alone in Paris, and
picks up Ben Lyon at the second time of
being accosted. He is jaunty, self-assured,
loquacious—the perfect American gent,
according to the standards of this class of
film. With maidenly diffidence she engages
him as her gigolo, and, under his guidance,
soon ceases to be a social Harp. When
the Count shoots himself because she has'
refused him Lyon exclaims : “Fine ! Dandy !”
But he is less enthusiastic when his wife
sues Constance for 250,000 dollars for alienat-
ing his affections. However, the newspaper
publicity causes her to be rushed by New
York society, male and female, and by
the previously reluctant young man whom
she loves,, so the end is mush. It takes a
woman with a face as intelligent as Norma
Shearer’s to smile and smile and be bear-
able. Seriousness on the screen is the
equivalent of silence in life; it hides dulness.
Miss Bennett ought to revert to it. She
radiates silliness in this picture. Its best
features are the dialogue, which is funny
in spots, and the unexpected twists, such
as the dream in the restaurant.
In “Fanny Foley Herself” Edna May
Oliver is a vaudeville singer whose vulgari-
ties pain her well-brought-up daughters.
They also pain her millionaire father-in-law
by whom she was disowned when she mar-
ried. Then the old man meets his grand-
daughters, discovers their mother’s heart of
gold, and relents. Miss Oliver has prac-
tically all the lines and situations, and she
makes the most of them. The film is in tech-
nicolor.
# ¥ V.
“Scandal for Sale,” which is on view at
the Lyceum and Haymarket, gives stunt jour-
nalism yet another knock. Charles Bickford
is the rip-roaring editor this time and Pal
O'Brien the hooch-masticator who helps him
to invent libels. They expose everybody and
everything, including their reptile eontemps..
arrange an attempted assassination of “our
fearless editor,” kidnap a murderess from
the police and photograph her at the office
(‘■Raise y’ skirt a little more; that’s right.
Now grab the hammer you bashed them
with. Y’ look grand!”). Whimpering in the
background is Bickford’s wife, Rose Hobart
(whom O’Brien loves), and her kids, one of
whom dies because Bickford was too pre-
occupied with his multifarious lunacies to
get a doctor. Finally Bickford sponsors a
trans-Atlantic flight, and sends O’Brien to
broadcast the details. The death-plunge into
the heaving waters and the preceding agonis-
ings should give the sadistic cretins who like
such stuff all the thrills they want. It ends
with Bickford turning from the journalism
of exposure in loathing, and striding off to
edit the American equivalent of the “S. M.
Herald.”


One Punch Palsy
By Montague Graver
Synopsis : Throwing in. his job at an
Ilia warra coalmine, Patsy Quirlc ,
amateur middleweight champion of
Australia, trains Hinder Buff Cody for
his first professional fight—with I umbel,
middleweight champion of France.
Buff gets Patsy's friends, Stan Car-
lisle, an artist, and Jimmy Packing-
ton up from the South Coast to keep
his mind off the fight. At Bondi Stan
introduces Phyllis. Deane, who talks
with Patsy about herself, and more
about Stan, At the Stadium Patsy
fights Loiobet twenty rounds a dratv.
But Palsy wins approval of press
and public, and breaks down his
family’s hostility to his new career.
Horace Egan matches him against
Chiller Spiers. Buff svelcomes Patsy
back to the camp. ■
, Chapter VIII.
IN spite of the arduous work of having
massaged the muscles of athletes for a
period of twenty years, Buff Cody was
inclined to corpulence. He was a heavy
man—heavy in bulk, movement, in thought,
in speech. His face was stolid and puffy,
his- mouth hidden below his heavy black
moustache and his eyes exhibiting a sad
wistfulness that advertised his profound
sentimentalism. His speech was slow and his
phrasing simple. The ’Loo’s wealth of
imagery had passed him without sticking,
and he had no imagination, no humor, to
evolve any of his own. He was, in fact,
precisely the type of man who would have
proved a triumphant success in public life.
He would have made a magnificent Conser-
vative; a hundred exclusive clubs would
have rung with praises of his soundness.
As a Labor man, his own side might have
been inclined to deplore his lack of fire;
but, no matter how extreme his views, his
suave gentility of manner would have im-
pressed Government and Opposition benches
alike that he was Sound.
But public life had no attractions for
Buff. Had he thought of the matter at
all, he would have reflected with pride that
he was a greater figure in a greater game.
He was in the midst of life—of the arena,
if not in it—not a Laocoon struggling vainly
with slimy! serpentine abstractions. He
was one of those privileged to occupy a
seat in the front row of the stalls and wit-
ness the great drama in whose production
he had played an important part. He knew
the actors, as they really were, without the
grease-paint—the virtues of the villain, the
vices of the ingenue, the sweet simple purity
of the vamp. The true artist is never satis-
fied with his work; but the true artist is
always satisfied with his occupation. By
all the tests, Buff Cody was a true artist.
His profession, he knew, was underpaid;
but he rejoiced in the maxim of Art for
Art’s sake and would not have exchanged
it for a Government sinecure of £2OOO a
year. There were, he also knew, sundry
people in the world unaware of his exist-
ence and in dark ignorance regarding his
wonderful creations, or the art which they
in turn practised; but he reflected that,
after all, such people do not really count
in the greater things of life. The real
aristocracy, the cream of civilisation, all
knew the careers of the Great Masters—
most of them their records in detail—
though the men who had made them what
they were remained unhonored and unsung,
even as he, Buff Cody, would remain un-
honored and unsung except to the handful
of devotees privileged to be granted admit-
tance to the Holy of Holies wherein were
erected the shrines of Patsy Quirk and the
other gods of the Olympus of pugilism.
In the yard Patsy renewed his associa-.
tions with the other boxers and was intro-
duced to Cyril de Vernay, one time of
Eton College, England; one time under-
graduate of King’s College, Cambridge Uni-
versity; one time Captain in Kitchener’s
Army, where he won a M.C.; one time big-
game hunter in the Himalayas; and all-time
English gentleman in the best sense of
the word, relative and perennial nuisance
to a certain noble family, and descendant
of Stephen* de Vernay, whose name appears
on tlie Roll of Battle Abbey.
Cyril was a tall, athletic man of thirty-
five, clean-shaven,. fair-haired and punctili-
ously dressed.' His trade or profession the
best people of London, England, would have
described as black sheep of the family;
though, judged by logical standards, the
quarterings of the Dc Vernay escutcheon
had been ensabled no more by Cyril than
by hundreds of its illustrious bearers during
the past thousand years.
Cyril’s trouble was that the only pro-
fession to which his father had trained him
was that of hunting big game, and big-
game hunters are so shockingly organised
industrially as to bring tears to the eyes of
any union secretary. Their wages, hours
and conditions of labor have never been
standardised; in fact, so far from Cyril’s
calling showing a profit, his father estimated
that each bear-skin he brought back to
England cost £5OO, whereas it could have
been bought in the open market for one-
tenth of that sum. Cyril had taunted the
old man with having no particular qualifi-
cations to pose as either an arithmetician
or an economist, and there had followed a
stormy scene. It was then that Cyril had
committed the one unpardonable offence.
He had ridiculed his own order, inserting in
the “Situations Wanted” column of the
“Times” the following ribald advertisement:
Big-game hunter, sober, industrious, fully-
qualified, seeks work by day or week near
Piccadilly. Piecework not objected to.
Apply Cyril de Vernay, Vernay Towers,
Hants, or Constitutional Club, London.
As was only natural, old De Vernay
raged. He passed upon his undutiful son
the sentence which is only one degree less
drastic than sentence of death—banishment
to “the colonies.” As for the “Times,” he
cut off his subscription on the spot and
transferred it to the “Morning Post,”
refused to permit the senior paper within
the precincts of Vernay Towers and issued
a ukase forbidding his tenant-farmers to
read it.
Cyril de Vernay found the serving of his
sentence mightily interesting. His allow-
ance he described as a mere pittance, fifty
per cent, inadequate to provide the bare
necessities of life to' an English gentleman.
But he found a way out. Within three
months of his arrival in Melbourne, he
would give his address as “Menzies or the
Metropole. From the first of the month
till the fifteenth you will find me at my
rooms at Menzies; for-the rest, I shall be
chopping wood for my tuckah at that
estimable institution, the Salvation Army
Metropole.”
Later, Cyril made the astounding and
delightful discovery that it is possible to
work for a living. He. approached it, as
he had approached other big-game, with
some diffidence, with some apprehension.
But only the unknown is terrible; when he
and work had been properly introduced, he
had found it not such an uncouth and un-
pleasant companion, after all. Putting in
six months at a country store he became
a Columbus; he discovered a new world.
He returned to Melbourne to collect six
months’ remittances, put up at his old rooms
at Menzies, visited some distant relatives
in Toorak and did the Melbourne Cup in
style.
That was ten years ago. Always inter-
ested in the Noble Art, Cyril had been
swept into the vortex of the boxing boom
and to-day he was earning a decent salary
as publicity man to the Stadium.
“Don’t let me interrupt you, Mr. De
Vernay,” said Patsy. “You were just speak-
ing when I came in.”
“I was saying,” said De Vernay, picking
up the dropped thread of his argument,
“that boxing’s degenerating. Mind you,
I’m not taking the usual stand of the people
who say that. I’m totally opposed to them.
What I mean to say is I’m diametrically
opposed to them. I’ve no sympathy with
those who’re for ever asserting that things
are not as good as when they were boys.
That’s the first evidence of senile decay
and ought to suffice to upset a will. What
I mean to say is that I don’t think that
Tom Sayers or Gentleman Jackson or Jim
Belcher or even Figg, the proto-champion,
would stand a chance against any of the
good heavies we put on at the Stadium.
My idea is that the degeneration is the
other way about.”
“We’re getting too good?” suggested
Patsy.
“Precisely,” agreed De Vernay. “You’re
our latest recruit, Mr. Quirk, I believe?
Yes Then out of the mouths of babes and
sucklings cometh wisdom. You are all
getting too good. Look back a few years
and you see the march of science tramp-
ling true sport underfoot—John L Sullivan
with his development of the right, Jim
Corbett with his footwork, La Blanche with
his swing, Bob Fitzsimmons with his vio-
lation of all the. canons of the fundamen-
talists in advocating ‘Hit, from where your
hand is,’ Kid McCoy with his corkscrew
punch and the later American school with
its loop-the-loop hit! We have all seen a
dog fight; we have all enjoyed it At least,.
I have, though you gentlemen may, per-
haps, regard my . instincts as primitive and
brutal. I plead guilty. But how would we
lovers of dog fights care to see them hedged
by rules and conventions? Would any
of us prefer to see dogs endowed with such
intelligence that they would conduct their
fights on a scientific basis? I would ask
you that, gentlemen? How would you like
to see a good honest dog fight sublimated
by the higher education?”
“But what’s that ter do with men fight-
in’?” inquired Buff Cody.
“Everything, my dear Mr. Cody,” replied
De Vernay, suavely. “Men should fight
without rules, without training, without edu-
cation. I regret to admit that it would put
you and myself and a number of other
estimable citizens out of a job; but it is
my opinion.”
“Gawdstruth!” muttered Buff. Already he
saw himself among the unemployed.
“I maintain that a fight should be all in.
Men should fight where the bulls graze,
without rules, without preparation, without
dogma, without the sinister shadow of the
late Marquis of Queensbury hanging over
them, without his dead hand—the execrable
doctrine of mortmain—checking their free-
dom. They should bite, kick, gouge or do
anything they like.”
“Hell!” Joe Tolani was. shocked into
speech. “That’s a bit over th’ odds.”
“I’ll grant that it seems so to us,”
observed De Vernay, placidly. “That is what
I complain about. The development of
boxing has knocked all the hardihood out
of the boxers. We are too humane, too
kindly to-day, too kid-gloved in our
methods. My objection is that the sport is
suffering from scientific hypertrophy. Re-
member what Nietzsche says.”
“ ’Oo?” demanded Joe.
“Nietzsche,” replied De Vernay, “in ‘Thus
Spake Zarathustra,” a work with which no
doubt you are well acquainted, Mr. Tolani.”
Joe looked blank.
“The pug of to-day is already half an
anatomist and half an engineer. He studies
anatomy that he may not waste his blows
on invulnerable spots; he experiments with
the punching ball that he may discover the
angles from which the heaviest blows may
be delivered with the least exertion. As
time goes on he will become more of an
anatomist, more of an engineer. He will
work out his fight tactics on the card-index
system, and, as soon as he is matched, he
will pull out the drawer containing the data
regarding his adversary and read off pre-
cisely what he intends to do. Another
drawer will tell him the anatomical system
of his opponent, his resistant power and
his opsonic index. A third will show the
blows necessary to be delivered and dodged
and the foot-pounds developed in each. All
he will need to do is to take all these
particulars, apply to them certain well-
known actuarial formulae and ascertain the
result, probably by logarithms. Then he
will send in his solution to the referee,
who will compare it with his opponent’s
and give a decision without the men ever
having entered the ring.”
“ ’Ow long d’yer think it’ll be afore then?”
inquired Buff Cody apprehensively.
“I should say that within five hundred
years our boxing contests will be conducted
in such a manner,” replied De Vernay,
placidly.
“Five ’undred years?” echoed Buff, with
a deep sigh of relief. “That’s aw right.
But yer give me a bit of a start.”
Chapter IX.
Patsy was sitting at the open end of a
tramcar at the Bondi terminus. A girl
walked towards him. He watched her in-
stinctively and without recognition. In-
stead of mounting the step, she paused
and looked up at him.
“You haven’t taken long to forget me,
Mr. Quirk.”
Patsy looked her straight in the face,
then laughed and raised his hat.
“I’m sorry, Miss Deape,” he said. “But
I didn’t know you at first.”
“It makes a difference doesn’t it? But
I couldn’t go to town in my costume.”
“I’m going in,” he said. “Jump in, too.”
“Come the Bellevue Hill way,” she sug-
gested. “I always do. “It’s 1 worth the extra
five minutes. Don’t you think so?”
“I’ve never tried it,” admitted Patsy.
“What! You’ve never lived! It’s a
dream. Come along with me and I’ll con-
vert you.”
Patsy hopped down, crossed the road
with her and they took their seats side
by side on the other car.
“This certainly is fine up here,” he re-
marked as they began to ascend the hill
overlooking the golf links and the harbor.
“What did I say? You’ll apologise to
me in a minute,” she returned. “Wait
till you get to the top and you’ll never
travel any other way again.”
Slowly as the car turned and twisted
around the crooked road, mounting higher
each yard, the panorama of Rose Bay re-
vealed itself—the harbor in all its glory,
shining like blue silk over a broad field
of golden green, and the clustering sage
knolls of the North Shore cutting a sky-
line where the turquoise sky was dappled
with clouds of fluffy white wool.
“Isn’t that worth the extra five minutes?”
she demanded. “And it’s all like this right
along the crest of Bellevue Hill. I come
up here painting when I’m not busy; but
I’ve never managed to get the right-spirit
into the work.”
“Then you’re an artist, too?” asked
Patsy. _
“I try to be—that’s all up to the present.
Some day I hope to do something. Up
to now I haven’t. I do ads for a living.”
“Do’ what?”
“Ads.—•advertisements. When you open
the paper and see that Smith and Jones
are offering a new lot of hats at fifteen
shillings and there’s a drawing of one that
makes you rush off to get it before they’re
all sold out, that’s my masterpiece, or the
masterpiece of one of my hated rivals! It’s
a great, game, drawing ads.—an education
in itself. The trouble is that I take it too
seriously. I’m all the time worrying my
heart out over tone values and methods of
handling in some drawing that wouldn’t
bring in five pounds if I was able to sell it.”
“I never knew that artists drew adver-
tisements,” confessed Patsy.
“They don’t,” she corrected. “There are
artists and there are people who draw ads.
I’m one of the latter.”
“But I never thought at all of how they
came to be there. I supposed they just
happened.”
“Just wait till you’ve met the head of
a department who wants you to make a
skirt hang the way it won’t, and you have
to go back again and again making cor-
rections. Then you’ll know what art criti-
cism really is. Some of our model show-
room managers could give Ruskin points
and a beating any time.”
“Who?” asked Patsy.
“Ruskin.” •
“What store is he in?”
“Don’t you try to pull my leg, Mr.
Quirk. You know Ruskin as well as I do.”
“Really, I don’t, dinkum,” he pleaded.
“I never heard of him. I’m not an artist,
you know. I’m awfully ignorant of things
like that.”
He impressed her that he was telling the
truth. She explained briefly, and wondered
how it was possible that this intimate of
Stan Carlisle, his schoolfellow, could pos-
sibly have failed to learn of Ruskin’s exist-
ence. He seemed decently educated, this
Mr. Quirk. He spoke good, though perhaps
slangy, English, was well enough informed
on current topics, was undoubtedly not
lacking in intelligence; and yet he was in
outer darkness regarding certain matters
which she deemed elemental. Probably,
she reflected; he was equally ignorant re-
specting others of the great world of art
and would think that Michelangelo was
a banana-vendor.
“Why not paint pictures instead of draw-
ing advertisements, if you’d sooner do it?”
pursued Patsy.
“You are innocent,” she replied. “You
have to be in the top bunch as a painter
before you can make as much as I’m
making now.”
“Is that right?” inquired Patsy. . He was
astounded. The possession of pictorial skill
seemed to him, as to many, a faculty so
rare and wonderful that he regarded its
owner as a made man. Stan, he knew, was
just contriving to scrape along, but he
attributed that merely to the difficulty of
a newcomer breaking into a clientele so
well established as to be practically a
monopoly.
• At Market-street they faced a huge poster
announcing a new comic opera at Her
Majesty’s.
“Have you been yet?” asked Phyllis.
“They tell me it’s splendid.” • w
“I was going with the boys next week.’
replied Patsy. Then came a brain-wave
that made him flinch with its audacity.
Subconsciously, he recalled Buff Cody’s
advice: “Bog in, bog in; always remember
it’s a fight, not a tea-meetin’!”
“But I’d sooner go with you, if you’ll
come! ” he added.
She was neither abashed-nor resentful at
what he regarded as a presumption on so
short an acquaintance.
“Thank you, Mr. Quirk,” she said. “Any
night’ll do me.”
“Then let’s say Wednesday. I’ll be at
the terminus at a quarter , past seven.”
‘That’s settled.” She extended a gloved
hand. “I’ll get off at King-street. You’re
going on?”
“Yes,” he replied. “We’re meeting Stau
at his studio.”
Patsy followed her with. his eyes as she
swung down the hill with a firm swinging
step until she was lost in the crowd and
the car moved on. Yes, he mused, she was
a nice girl.
Chapter X. -
Buff and Joe Tolani were waiting on the
pavement outside the building where Stan
rented what he called his studio. This was
on the third floor of an old three-storeyed
structure, built originally as a store and
later subdivided into a score of cubicles by
matchboard partitions. The smaller, digni-
fied by the name of offices, were occupied
by more or less shady business men who
mostly called themselves agents and existed
largely on the confidence engendered by im-
posing stationery. They were_ the aristo-
crats of the building and occupied the floor
below Stan.
On the top floor was the studio —a large
apartment with a splendid light flowing-
through the big windows overlooking the
harbor—and two smaller front offices so
lacking in light that even the shadiest of
agents declined to occupy them at the most
modest of rentals. They had been vacant
ever since Stan came to Sydney a year ago.
• At one end of the studio was an old
Japanese screen which had seen better days.


TOURIST CLASS
\
tm?.
.
l"
!IsS
n
IlIJs
gap
.»s:
15®S
&
*«*
§p*
I
3^2
111
BMtl
H ffi
Urtnffl
If
a
\v\u
i
MOLDAVIA
LEAVES SYDNEY
OCTOBER 7
The P. & O. Company’s exclusively
Tourist Class steamers, Moldavia,
16,556 tons, and Mongolia, 16,596
tons, offer the utmost in comfort,
service and cuisine.
MONGOLIA
LEAVES SYDNEY
NOVEMBER 4
Agents in all States and New Zealand
From
£39
Agents in all States and New Zealand
subject to exchange
ENGLAND
by
In its youth it had been a glorious piece
of workmanship m black and gold, and
had adorned a drawing-room m one of the
seats of the mighty at Potts Point. By
effluxion of time it had become the pro-
perty of a successful artist. Then came the
day when a successful artist could no longer
afford to retain a screen of its shabbiness.
He presented it to an unsuccessful one, and
so unsuccessful had this one been that
Stan had bought it from him for half a
crown.
It was a historic screen, had anyone
bothered to trace its career. It had appeared
in the background of half a dozen pictures
notable in Australian art. It could even
be found in the corner of a picture in the
National Gallery. To-day it served to con-
ceal the private portion of Stan s studio
from the public portion, for it masked the
bed, the gas stove and the unwashed plates
from the last meal.
In the best light stood an easel and a
table. There were half a dozen wooden
chairs, a throne contrived of packing-cases
covered with sackcloth, and over the walls
and leaning against the skirtings were
paintings and impressions and rough car-
toons and portfolios.
Stan showed the visitors over the place
with some pride. He felt no shame about
his poverty, only pride in his work. He
brought out his picture of Ben Buckler,
which Gipp, oldest and most respected of
all Sydney artists, advised him to hold for
the next big exhibition. It was the best
thing in oils that Stan had done and he
knew it.
The strangers were interested; they knew
tllo. pl?lC6
“When did yer do that?” asked Buff.
There was a shade of disappointment in
his voice.
“I thought so,” replied Buff. “We painted
th’ camp since yer done that. Afore th’
exhibition yer might give it another coat
ter make it look right. It looks sorter dirty
there.
“Hang it all, Buff, that’d spoil it,” re-
plied Stan.
“Spoil it?” echoed Buff. “Why it’s a
nice green—picked it out meself. What’ll
people think of us if it goes in like that?”
“But leaving out the camp, how do you
like it?” persisted Stan.
“It looks great to me,” said Patsy. “It’s
wonderful to be able to do that sort of
thing.”
Joe Tolani was stolid as ever.
“But don’t it want another coat, any-
how?” asked Buff. “I like ’em smooth.
Ain’t yer goin’ ter make this one smooth?”
Stan smiled. “I might, but, as it happens,
I don’t want to.”
Buff was still unsatisfied. The pen-and-
ink drawings, he thought, were a bit
scratchy. “I like th’ sort without th’ joins
showin’,” he explained. “But acourse, I
don’t know nothin’ about pitchers. I’m a
dead mug, I am. Don’t take no notice o’
me,” he added, fearful that he might have
been ungracious.
“And here’s what I’m on now,” said Stan,
producing a huge sheet of Bristol board.
“It’s ‘The Awakening of Titania’ the fairy
in ‘Midsummer Night’s Dream.’ I’ve tried
for the light and I’m fairly well satisfied
that I’ve succeeded. The only fear I have
is that I’ve made the whole thing a trifle
too pretty.”
Buff gazed long at the light figure of
Titania poised on a rose petal, delicate and
fragrant as the rose itself, her eyes half-
closed, her arms as if she were casting sleep
aside with the drapery that had fallen be-
hind her.
“ ’Ot stuff, ain’t it?” he observed with a
grin. “Ole Mother Weeks ’ad some scor-
chers down in ’er joint in th’ ’Loo afore
th’ johns shunted ’er. I dunno what be-
come o’ th’ pitchers, but they was willin’,
I promise yer.”
“Hell, Buff!” cried Stan. He knew the
type of pink and beefy nudes that must
have filled the oleographs at Mother
Weeks’s. “This is a fairy—a charming,
dainty, little fairy.” He paused. “She’s
supposed to be, and I’ve tried”
Patsy saw that Buff had overstepped the
mark. “She’s lovely, Stan,” he said. He
did not confuse Titania with the products of
coarseness, as Buff had done. He regarded
the drawing not as improper, but certainly
as daring. He felt that were he an artist
he would not have been game to exhibit a
picture of a fairy without giving her at
least some clothing. Even had Stan drawn
her without any, he might have shown
more delicacy in having a few leaves stray-
ing across the picture, or even a bird flying
in such a way as to spare certain blushes.
Patsy, in effect, took the conventional view
of the respectable citizen, who regards as
subversive of morality all nudes painted
by artists who get less than a hundred
pounds a picture.
Stan put the drawing away and got out
his sketch book to make a series of rough
sketches of Patsy and Buff and Joe Tolani.
Already he had a score, done at the ring-
side during the fight with Loubet. He
had projected another big black-and-white—■
realistic this time—to be called “In the
Corner,” a study of the expressions of the
seconds during a fight; a psychological
drawing. He had already roughed it out,
but the subject appealed to him so much
that he intended to spare neither time nor
trouble over it.
As he finished his sketch of Buff, Patsy
laid down a sketch book that he had been
studying, full of studies for the Titania
picture. Buff picked it up. “Excuse me,
Buff,” he said, taking the book and putting
it in a drawer, “those drawings aren’t for
little boys.”
“Gawblime, I’m sorry,” pleaded Buff.
“But what th’ ’ell’ve I done?”
Chapter XI.
Wellington proved a good prophet.
Patsy’s fight with Chiller Spiers panned out
over £350 gross, out of which Patsy took his
full third. The fight proved easy for Patsy.
He knew he was Chiller’s master after the
first round, and it was only necessary
thenceforward to avoid his wild swings and
long-heralded uppercuts. Accordingly he
refrained from forcing the fighting. He
stood off Spiers and kept propping a steady
staccato of medium-weighted punches on his
face and body until the opening came.
Spiers did not give in until the tenth
round. Then he nodded to rush in—“as
open as the two Cups,” Buff Cody put it.
Patsy met him with a right uppercut on
the chin. He was still down at the count
of ten, and Patsy forgot the victory in his
fears that he had injured the man. _____
In the dressing-room Spiers recovered
slowly. He was no regular pug, this man—
just a timber-getter from Camden way who
for three years had by gameness and hard-
hitting contrived to assume and retain the
title of Champion of the South Coast. He
was heavier than Patsy—a cruiser-weight,
entering the ring at list. 71b., a fact that
had impelled Buff Cody to question at first
the wisdom of Patsy’s going outside his
own class.
Himself again, Spiers shook hands with
Patsy and gasped congratulations. “I
thought I was too heavy for you,” he said.
“I thought me weight’d do it, an’ when
Horace Egan offered me fifty quid if I won,
I reckoned it’d be worth tryin’ for.”
“What’s your loser’s end?” asked Patsy.
“I stood out for win, lose or draw.”
“Go on!” cried Spiers, astounded at the
acumen of his opponent. “He promised me
a fiver if I lost.”
“A fiver?” commented Buff. “That’s
murder. A fiver! An’ yer trainin’!”
“I jest trained meself,” replied Spiers.
“No wonder yer got knocked out,” snorted
Buff. His sympathy was drying up. For
the man who trained himself he had the
class-conscious contempt of the expert
craftsman.
“I thought I could pay off what I owe
on me ’orses if I got through,” explained
Spiers.
“How much do you owe on them?” asked
Patsy.
Chiller thought hard. He was still suffer-
ing from the effects of the last blow, staring
straight in front of him?
“Twenty-three pounds eight,” he calcu-
lated.
“Righto, Chiller,” said Patsy. “You can
take it out of my cut. If it wasn’t for you
I wouldn’t have any cut.”
“Yer don’t mean that?” cried Spiers,
smiling through his bruised face. He made
a sudden recovery. “Here,” he cried.
“Knock us out a few times more. Well,
Patsy, ole man, I’ll do as much for you
some day if I can. Yer a white man, that’s
what you are. I don’t care who knows it!”
“I’ll fix it up to-morrow,” said Patsy. He
had no liking for sentimental expressions of
gratitude and his one desire was to get
away. He hastened off with his party, the
voice of Chiller Spiers following him
through the doorway, singing his praises as
a white man in accents that grew lachry-
mose.
“He’s right, Patsy,” said Buff Cody.
“There’s not many as ’d do that. It’s th’
sorter thing as makes yer feel more yer
feller-man. But, if yer’ll take a tip from
me, yer’ll sit careful, or yer’ll ’ave all th’
ear-biters in Aussie buzzin’ roun’ yer like
flies.”
Buff’s intuition was correct. Patsy found
that the man who did good by stealth was
possibly animated by cold commonsense
as much as modesty. Fortunately he had
paid over the deposit of £5O on his father’s
cottage before Chiller Spiers’s song of praise
reached more than his intimates. But its
circulation was not long delayed. The
begging letters started within a week. Then
the story was broadcast by Cyril de
Vernay, who saw it a good drawing card
for the Stadium in Patsy’s future matches.
“The postman groaned beneath the weight
of good things provided,” observed Wel-
lington with a smile when Patsy asked him
desperately what to do.
“Hire a man like Lytton’s character to
go round calling you ‘Stingy Quirk.’ That’s
the best solution I can offer. No, Patsy,
you’ve cast your bread on the waters and
the loafers are returning after few days.”
When all the finances of the fight were
squared up, Patsy found himself once more
starting life afresh with five pounds. But
with twenty-one years and an unbeaten
record and five Commonwealth notes in
your hip pocket, what more can life give?
(To be continued next week.)
Caution.
I go alone the long day through,
Though many greet me by the way*
And someone listens when I pray.
I have a tryst, and I am true,
Three paces now I walk with you,
O friend, and share the ripening day,
Because the sun is glad and gay,
And laughter is my wisdom, too.
Three paces only, then we part
Lest any sweetness strike too deep
And a forbidden sorrow start.
It is not given me to weep
Nor bare to you my veiled heart,
Because I have a tryst to keep.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.


é
SPRINGTIME
means
cartime!
W/mt alt out uour
TYRES ?
SPRINGTIME means renewed activity in
the motoring community.
Greasing, overhauling and repairs loom promin-
ently in the car owner’s mind, not forgetting, of
course, TYRES!
Tyres and their conservation is our business.
Being specialists in this business, we are logically
fitted to advise you and show you how to keep
your Tyre costs at a minimum.
Your worn tyres, for example, may be fit for
retreading. An Advanx “Roadmaster” retread
will save you over half the cost of a new Tyre,
m
©
Y
n
n
ioff
ra
and it carries a guarantee
for 5,000 miles.
You can have an Advan*
“Roadmaster” through
your local dealer anywhere
in the Metropolitan area or
from any of our recognised
branches throughout the
country.
Remember, that the price
of a retread is dependent
upon the mileage you re-
ceive from it. That is why
Advanx “Roadmasters”
will save you money!
Ask your local dealer or
branch to quote you!
DON’T SAY RETREADS,
SAY Advanx
Branches Everywhere.
“Two Pair o’ Hobblin’.”
BY J. W. REDMOND.
THE news started as a vague rumor, but
spread like wildfire over the station in
one short morning.
“T’ree t’ousand 'gone!” gasped old Gus
Sheoun when the news reached him. “Veil,
that joost is a nasty yar!” He straightened
up from the jumbled assortment of harness
through which he had been intently search-
ing.
“Yes,” went on Arthur, the horse-breaker,
who was enjoying the telling, “and they
reckon ‘Flasher’ McGee’s got ’em. The Boss
and Jock are going over in the morning.
They’re taking some of the men to bring
the sheep back, so they must be pretty sure.
You’ll probably have to go, Gus.”
“Veil, then, I joost mightn’t go!” Gus
bent over the untidy heap once more, his
bald, square head gleaming in the hot sun.
“Why not? What’s nibbling at you now?
Someone been calling Wynken a full-
blooded mongrel?”
But Gus ignored Arthur and refused to
rise to the old bait about his three clever
dogs, Wynken, Blynken and Nod. Border
collies they were, with white feet and faces
and snowy ruffs around their necks, in vivid
contrast to the black satin of their coats.
They were the pride of old Gus’s heart, and
could secure him a job on any sheep pro-
perty in the West. The old German in his
decrepit buggy drawn by two lazy, jogging
horses and escorted by the three splendid
dogs, their plumed tails flashing in the sun,
was known all over the wind-swept downs
of the Far West.
“Two pair o’ hobblin’ lost, bran’ new!
I haf never vore ’em,” he muttered to him-
self as he gave up the search and sat down
on a kerosene-case in the shade of the hut.
He watched Arthur’s disappearing figure
with a gleam of suspicion. New hobbles and
bells were a weakness with the young horse-
breaker.
“Eef I do not get der hobblin’ I ebooks
der job!” he decided, vaguely glad of the
excuse. Yertibulti station was beginning to
pall on his wander-loving spirit, and Gus
was getting cheque-proud too. He fell to
thinking of Flasher McGee and the three
thousand missing sheep. They all consid-
ered that Flasher had a “bat,” and had made
him the butt of the district ever since his
arrival at the big ill-improved selection
adjoining Yertibulti.
Why, that first shearing when he had
brought his sheep over to the station shed,
hadn’t he run up to the woolpressers and
adjured them to “put only a hundred and
fifty to a bale and the wife will be delighted
—she’ll think what a splendid clip we’ve
got!” And he had rubbed his hands in
glee as he watched the lorries lurch away,
high-piled with the half-pressed hales. It
had been a campfire topic for weeks after-
wards, and the men all declared McGee was
“flasher’n Hell.” From which the sobri-
quet “Flasher” had evolved.
And now Flasher was acclaimed respon-
sible for the lifting of three thousand sheep.
A barefaced, blundering felony evidently.
Old Gus shook his ill-thatched head in per-
plexity ; the greatest offence against the law
of which he had ever been guilty was the
killing of an occasional sheep for meat for
himself and the dogs as he travelled the long
roads from one station to another. And in
his simple old heart Gus did not consider
his action blameworthy.
Next morning, as the first pale blush of
dawn crept into the east, the Boss came
down to call the men. They were to have
early breakfast and then away to' retrieve
the stolen sheep. His orders met with one
dissent, however.
“Veil, Boss, eef I do not get mine new
hobblin’ vich I haf never vore, den I goes
to der office an’ I gets mine sheck.” Belli-
gerent and ghostly Gus appeared in the
doorway of the hut. He had already been
to the Boss about his loss and had received
little satisfaction; he received less now.
“I don’t give a damn what you do. I
didn’t take your blasted hobbles that you
never wore!” snapped Lonergan as he
walked away. The hour was too early for
even the briefest of arguments. “And, any-
how, I’ll bet the cantankerous old devil won’t
go,” he decided to himself. “I don’t want
to lose him now. Not with three dogs like
that and shearing coming on.”
But he reckoned without the sense of
deep hurt that possessed Gus. If he had
merely sympathised and offered some hobbles
in place of the lost ones, he would have
earned the old man’s willing help and very
real gratitude.
As it was, the little group of men and
dogs moved away into the gleam of the
rising sun, and Gus was not of their num-
ber. Wynken, Blynken and Nod flattened
their ears and whined as they watched the
joyously loping dogs. Their bright brown
eyes rested on old Gus as he strapped his
bulging swag on the back of the buggy, and
then they would turn wistfully toward the
blot of dust that was fast disappearing over
the crests of the downs.
It was midday when the men arrived at
Flasher’s selection, and they experienced
little difficulty in mustering the sheep. The
flock was spread out over the flats in the
river paddock near the little weather-beaten
homestead. Almost it seemed they had been
purposely put there. Shouting men and
barking dogs soon had them mustered and
started on their homeward journey.
The Boss and Jock, the taciturn book-
keeper, went up to interview McGee.
The little man hurried out from the shade
of the verandah as they drove up in the
station buggy. “Why!” he exclaimed, “if
it isn’t Mr. Lonergan and Mr. McQuade,
and jpst in time for lunch ! You’ll come in
and have a bit, won’t you?” He rubbed
his hands nervously together and shifted his
weight from one uneasy foot to the other
as Lonergan glared at him and McQuade
gazed aloofly away over the horses’ flicking
ears into the hazy distance.
“No,” said Lonergan at length, deeming
that he had made a suitable impression, “we
don’t want any lunch, thank you. We want
to know what three thousand of our sheep
are doing here on your run?”
Flasher looked confused, like a child
caught out in some misdemeanor. “Why,
Mr. Lonergan, those sheep only got in
through the boundary a couple of days ago,
and —and I didn’t like to hunt the poor
beggars straight out again. I thought I d
wait and send word over to you first chance,
knowing you’d want them for the shearing.
It was a jumbled, unconvincing explanation.
“Just got in? Just got in? Listen to
the innocent! And the tracks we found of
a horse and dog putting sheep through from
our back paddock into yours are at least
three weeks old!” Lonergan bellowed:
“How do you account for that?”
Apologetically silent, Flasher scratched
his thin sandy hair and gazed at the two
men out of weak-looking blue eyes. They
were not always weak-looking, however;
they could change swiftly, magically, to a
hard steely-blue shrewdness. But few
people saw them change. Very few. Flasher
knew his line.
“What would you do to a damn fool like
that?” Lonergan asked the dour Scot beside
him, and gave a derisive twist of his thumbs.
“I’d be dr-r-rivin’ awa’,” grunted Jock
and continued to stare out over the downs.
“Shake ’em up then,” Lonergan advised
and turned to Flasher as the buggy moved
off.
“You’ll probably land in gaol over this,
McGee!” he said ; “and if you don’t —well,
see that it doesn’t happen again,” he added,
as though the culprit was a naughty school-
boy.
“Fancy the Government letting the likes of
that loose on a selection,” snorted Lonergan.
“Intelligence as feeble as a child’s! Imagine
any sane man trying to bring off a coup
like that and leaving tracks everywhere—
even the sticks he used to prop the wires
with so the sheep could run under. Mad-
ness! Utter madness! Good thing for us,
though.” ,
“Ar-r-re ye going to pr-r-rosecute?” in-
quired Jock.
“Prosecute? That! Lord, no, I’ve more
to do!”
“They’r-re bor-r-rn ever-r-ry day,” observed
Jock as he flicked the horses’ sweating flanks.
“Yes!” acquiesced Lonergan ; but he had
an uncomfortable feeling, wondering who
the Scotsman’s terse “they” referred to. A
thoughtful silence enshrouded the two men
during the remainder of the drive.
“Flasher was going in for big licks, wasn’t
he?” Arthur said, waving a hand to indi-
cate the sheep, as he reined his raw, ner-
vous colt in beside old Gus’s buggy.
“Mine gootness, yes! He vos go in for
der beeg leeks all right.” Gus whoa’d to his
horses and they pulled up thankfully. “I
vonders eef dey gets der po-leece?”
“Not they!” Arthur laughed. “Loner-
gan’U think Flasher too big a fool to bother
his head about.”
“Veil, I don’t know. May be he ees an’
may be he eesn’t,” Gus decided carefully.
“So you’re really off, eh?” Arthur grinned
meaningly as he eyed the lumber-piled old
buggy.
Gus lost his geniality. “I vill not shtop
on der blace ven der men shteal from deir
best fren’! Gid oop! gid oop!” Abruptly
he drove away, leaving Arthur to stare in
amazement.
“You’d think the old beggar knew I took
his hobbles!” he grumbled as he rode after
the sheep.
The sun hung red and low in the west as
Gus drove up to Flasher McGee’s house.
The little man came out to meet the trav-
eller with as much politeness and atten-
tion as he had shown toward his less wel-
come visitors earlier in the day.
“Good evening, Gus! Good evening.”
“Goot day!” returned the old German.
“I vant ter know eef I can take der short
gut to Medway Downs?”
“Why, of course, Gus ; go that way if
you like. But it’s pretty rough. Will you
stop the night with us?”
“No, danks, I vill ged on.”
“Well there’s plenty of water in Copi
Creek, and you can put your horses through
the flood-gates. Hobble them in the corner
there; the feed’s good. How are you off
for meat? I can let you have some.”
Seldom did anyone show such considera-
tion for old German Gus. He was touched,
and before he realised it he was telling
Flasher the story of his stolen hobbles.
Flasher was sympathetic; more, he was
practical. Going into the house he emerged
carrying a bag filled with corned mutton and
—scarcely could Gus believe his eyes!—
two brand-new pairs of hobbles! He didn’t
want them, he explained—had plenty more;
and, anyway, his horses never wanted re-
straining. “Take them, Gus, and welcome,”
he said.
The short cut certainly was rough from
long disuse. It led through thick, dingy
gidya scrub and innumerable ups and downs
of tortuous melon holes. No one ever
travelled that way. Indeed, few remem-
bered the old track, except old-timers like
Gus. H'e was glad when he reached Copi
Creek and turned the horses loose to feed,
secure in their new hobbles. He boiled a
portion of the mutton for the dogs; greedily
they sniffed its fragrance, and their tails
swept a shower of dead leaves from the earth
that was carpeted with them.
Gus felt a great contentment possess him
as, seated on a log, he munched corned
mutton and fresh bread the cook had given
him, and washed it down with large
draughts of strong black tea. To be the
captain of his own soul every once in a
way was perfect happiness. Wages, he re-
gretfully realised, were the real masters of
his destiny. But that couldn’t be helped.
His thoughts were full of the little sandy
man who had shown him such unexpected
kindness. Anyone who copld be so perfect
a gentleman Gus felt sure would be quite
incapable of real evil. There surely was
some mistake about those sheep.
The night promised to be chilly; a fresh,
light wind rustled the leaves of the old
gidyas and made the fire flare fitfully. Gus
dragged a huge log from near by and placed
it on the lee of the fire, where it would
burn slowly and make ready great red coals
for the morning. He unrolled his swag near
enough to the fire to feel its warmth and
know the companionship of his beloved dogs
that were stretched lazily about it. Blynken
and Nod were frankly asleep, but Wynken
rested his beautiful white muzzle on his
paws and alternately watched the leaping
flames and the movements of Gus as he com-
posed himself for slumber. Now and again
the dog would raise his head uneasily and
sniff at some scent that was borne on the
wind.
It was midnight when Gus awoke; the
Southern Cross shone high and bright be-
yond the etched pattern of leaves and
branches overhead. The fire leaped in bril-
liant emphasis against the forbidding dark-
ness beyond. Gus sat up, conscious of
something amiss, and as he listened there
came to his ears the faint pat-patting of
many tiny feet on the carpet of leaves, and
small, grey shapes began to push and
huddle into the circle of firelight. Their
eyes gleamed red and terrified.
Then realisation swept over Gus. He
sprang to his feet with a piercing whistle
that dispersed the milling lambs about the
camp. They ran and leapt past him in
seemingly countless numbers. Gus whistled
again, and then fell to watching the racing
lambs. Each one was newly weaned and
marked, and it bore the earmark of Flasher
McGee.
The old German laughed deep in his
throat as he saw now the reason for
Flasher’s “big licks,” as Arthur termed it.
Out of all those sheep the lambs would never
be missed!
The last stragglers bounded past, and
after them crept three crestfallen black and
white dogs. Surreptitiously they lay down
before the fire and watched their master.
But for once he forbore to punish them.
Indeed, it seemed he had forgotten them.
He was listening to the tinkle of his horses’
bells in the distance.
“Two pair o’ new hobblin’,” Gus mur-
mured gratefully. Flasher’s secret was safe.
Full Moon.
Come out to-night with me and wade
In cool, green moonlight to the knee;
The gods have melted mines of jade
And made smooth floods for you and me
Past dust-steeped lanes, where roses hang
Pale blurs upon an arm of thorn,
Over the hills where wet winds sang
Through the grey windows of the morn —
What lure have I to bring you forth
To walk the moony ways with me?
No topaz from the gem-starred North,
Nor pearl from any turquoise sea.
But once when nights were bright and long
(Love gave it Life, Hope gave it wings),
I made for you a little song,
And little songs are friendly things.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


THE EDITOR’S
DILEMMA.
The editor would like to publish the
manuscript. The subject is interesting and
the thought good, but the paragraphing is
poor, giving the effect of lack of unity;
there are some obvious grammatical errors,
and the emphasis is wrongly distributed.
The writer apparently has been at pains to
enlarge his vocabulary, but has not learned
how to construct sentences; he is involved
and redundant, and he misses the climaxes
that would make what he has to say sparkle.
The editor hesitates. By rejecting the
MS. forthwith he would save time, but he
Would lose an article his readers want. Can
he blue-pencil the offerees out and put
some strength in? He reads the first two
pages again and finds that he can not. His
dilemma is solved. He •rejects the MS.
“WRITING FOR THE
NEWSPAPERS.”
“Writing for the Newspapers” is a Course
of training prepared and conducted con-
jointly by Bernard Cronin and E. H. Wol-
ford. It concerns itself with the difficulties
of inexperienced writers as indicated in the
preceding paragraphs.
The Course consists of eight lessons. It
covers all the requirements, general and
particular, of newspaper paragraphs and
articles. It is a complete training, includ-
ing not only the writing of articles and
paragraphs, but also selection of subjects
and methods of treatment for different
kinds of publications.
The Chapter headings of the eight lessons
are: General Requirements, subjects and
the source of ideas; Paragraphing an article;
Unity and examples; Punctuation; Distri-
bution of Emphasis and Brevity; Hints
and Errors; the Range of Consciousness;
Condensation and Expansion; the effective
Vocabulary and the Business Side of writing.
Throughout the Course the pupil is
required to conform to newspaper practice
and to write articles and paragraphs under
strict newspaper conditions. The lessons
themselves deal with the many common
faults- which may spoil an otherwise accept-
able article. The exercises are searching
and the standard of work demanded of the
pupil high. Each paragraph and article
written by the pupil is criticised in detail
from the editorial standpoint and as a
piece of writing, with the object of bring-
ing it, if possible, up to publication standard.
The Course gives just the help and
stimulus which the inexperienced but ambi-
tious writer needs.
If you are interested and will communi-
cate with E. H. Wolford at 398 Flinders
Lane, Melbourne, he will send you further
particulars of this Course of training and
will be pleased to discuss with you your
writing experience and aspirations.
E. H. WELFORD PTY., LTD.,
“Good English and Good Writing,”
* Managers of
The WEEFORD COURSE IN
ENGLISH, by E. H. Welford and
A. W. B. Welford, M.A. (Cantab.).
The BERNARD CRONIN STORY-
WRITING COURSE, by Bernard
Cronin.
WRITING FOR THE NEWS-
PAPERS —a course in the writing
of paragraphs and articles for
Australasian newspapers and
periodicals.
CRITICAL SERVICE TO
WRITERS. Criticism of indivi-
dual MSS. and advice on publica-
tion, by Bernard Cronin.
Particulars of any, or all. of these
courses will be sent post free on
application to
E. H. Welford Pty., Ltd.,
398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
“Pelmanism is a living and growing scheme
of self-mastery and self-development”
PELMANISM
u
<m
This illustration symbolises the
grip on the mental faculties,' and the
control of the emotional states, which
a Pelman Training gives. The former
means ability; the latter self-con-
fidence and the respect of others .
INDIVIDUALITY
To know thoroughly one de-
partment of work or effort is
good; to turn that knowledge
to the best account is better.
In the last analysis, it is not
opportunity and facilities for
acquiring knowledge—these are
open to most of us—but the
possession and extension of
personal qualities which carry
one man ahead of others.
When a man has learned his
piece, served his apprenticeship
and become a craftsman,
worked hard and become
skilled on the land or in
factory or workshop, gone
through the prescribed course
and become a professional or
business man, when, in fact, he
is in possession of knowledge
and skill, what is he going to
do with them?
That depends on his per-
sonality. It is here that the
extraordinary usefulness of Pel-
manism to the man himself is
apparent. It wakes him up,
opens his eyes to possible uses
of his acquired skill and know-
ledge, widens his outlook and
establishes his standing among
other men. It makes of him an
individual, a strong personality
as well as a sound and con-
structive worker.
Pelmanism has done this for
31,000 people in Australia and
New Zealand.
“Pelmanism is also help-
ing hundreds of women
in all their activities.”
The Headquarters of the Pel-
man Institute are in London.
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
Pelmanism is concerned with personal attributes and
qualities which are fundamental. They may be sleeping
or only partly developed, but they are in every normal
individual. Pelmanism develops them, separately and
together, so that, amongst other things, concentration is
made easier by quickened perceptions; natural energy
enormously increased by interest, and prompt decision
justified by soundness of judgment.
Amongst these attributes and qualities are: —
Concentration Will-Power Presence of Mind
Judgment Initiative Organising Power
Decision Self-Confidence Courage
And a Reliable Memory.
The development of these strong, positive, vital qualities contributes to
one’s earning capacity and makes it possible to live intelligently in the
present and build strongly for the future.
There are Pelmanists in every calling
It is the plain truth that, no matter where or how a man may be placed—
in a big organisation working with many others; in a prdfession; in a
small business as proprietor, manager, clerk or salesman; on the land; in
factory or workshop; in any calling whatever —Pelmanism will help him
to make the most of his circumstances, his opportunities and himself.
The Efficient Mind
The Pelman Course of Training is fully described in “The Efficient
Mind.” Copies are posted free. Call or write for one. Enquiries are
confidential. The Pelman Institute has no'outdoor representatives.
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
For the Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (comer of Market St.), Melbourne
Pelmanism may be
mastered by giving
to i't 20 or 30
minutes a day for
about three months!
It. is intensely inter-
esting and the re-
sults begin to show
within a week. It
is taught by post.
CUT OUT OR COPY THIS AND POST TO-DAY.
To the Secretary, THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C. I.
Please send your free book, “The Efficient Mind.
Name
Address '
329 .
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1 880 the mailman bps regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/
*
vf
r»
0°
\V® v i
o^
.*•*
••■■ •••■;
. • • ■ s>^
.-•■■ c o r 4>
••' o*' J#r
•••■ >*s' s^v


SPSS!
A
Willard
>.• T'i 1
■ ">■ •"• •’ i mtMmmm
mimiitimmi
mm.
i
:
They musi be goo
else how could they win
such world wide approval?
Millions of car owners ... everywhere... have found that
Willards do their work dependably, and give more miles
and months of satisfactory performance. Their experience
is reflected in the fact that, year after year, they buy more
Willards than any other make of battery. Willards must be
good!
The Willards they buy are soundly designed, ruggedly built, and sold in
the correct electrical sizes to fit their particular makes and models of cars.
And the service facilities that Willard Service Stations offer are their assurance
not only of getting out of their batteries all that was built into them at the
factory —but also of keeping them fit to perform dependably at all times. Car
owners have learned that a battery kept in condition has much to do with
the driving satisfaction they get out of their cars. Willard batteries are good
batteries!
Willard
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
STORAGE
BATTERIES
Motor Supplies, Limited,
Brisbane.
Westcott Hazell & Co., Limited,
Sydney.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Brooklands Accessories Pty., Limited,
Melbourne.
Automobile Electric Service, Limited,
Adelaide.
Atkins (W.A.)> Limited,
Perth.
