

WINES
mm
' '
■H
111—SMI
.* ■ »
‘ •' » Jfc* A*.
• £: • .aßfttfL* .
1 ‘ I* ? s *
SIP
if ’<•,*« > -pppp^
Silt AtiSS -on
The Bulletin
tf- (Mefcfo . (ft&
Vol. 53.—N0. 2756.
Wednesday, December 7, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


GIVE BOOKS FOR XMAS.
for our 72-page Xmas Catalogue.
Sent, post free, anywhere.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
StorM Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON *
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence Collene
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. 9 3
Please send, without obligation, your New
Booklet, explaining how to Write ior Protitn.
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. j 05
My Name
I ly Address
S.B. 232 ~
(imcura
m* Soap
Ointment
Talcum Powder
b>
%XMj.
TO YOUR SKIN
Daily use of this pure, medi-
cated Soap, containing emol-
lient and cleansing properties,
protects, as well as cleanses,
the skin. The Ointment
quickly relieves and heals any
rash or pimple that may ap-
pear. The Talcum over-
comes excessive perspiration
and adds a finishing touch to
the toilet.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum ls.3d.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1851/.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
You do not leave it to chance in choosing a
newspaper for your advertising campaigns. You
require evidence of its stability and inquire
fully into its claims for preference before
entrusting it with your sales message.
No discriminate buyer of newspaper space can
afford to overlook
“THE AGE”
when contemplating future allocations for
Victoria.
Make your first pi'eference “THE AGE*” and
you will be convinced that in choosing this
medium to broadcast your sales message
throughout the State your choice has been
fully justified.
“The Age” CIRCULATES in the
homes and offices of 115,000 sub-
scribers daily, and publishes over ONE
MILLION Advertisements annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in aU States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office. 43 Hunter Street.
THE PATRIOT
|DIREOIMEDIUM_IQ WDMENiI
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHOLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ONE
ADVERTISEMENT
BRINGS MANY
THOUSANDS
OF POUNDS.
X- •' V r-W-'?
A large contracting
firm, Hornibrook High-
way Ltd., advertised
their prospectus in all
Brisbane daily papers,
and called for capital.
The one advertisement
obtained magnificent
financial response
OVER 99 PER CENT.
OF WHICH WAS
THROUGH
The
Brisbane
Courier,
Member of Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
Representative
Robt. D. Fisher —85007,
74 Pitt St., Sydney.
The Woman’s Mirror
PRICE - 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Published every Saturday
omists agree
Cl
mmsm
m
tirrrt
è
IS
QUEENSLAND
EVERYONE AGREES
THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
is renowned for its vigorous
influence, its freedom from
vulgarity and stupid sensa-
tionalism, and its high per-
centage of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
carries more classified adver-
tisements than any other
Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers
must agree that as an eco-
nomic force in the Queens-
land market “The Telegraph”
leads the way.
TEL9GPADH
/ BIWBANEf LEADING HOME NEWSPAPER -
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Gandhi
He is probably the most widely-discussed
man living. A few weeks ago he threatened
to starve himself to death on an obscure
doctrinal point connected with the religious
campaign which he is waging in Yeravda
gaol. Immediately the news was flashed to
every civilised country. Yet he has never
achieved anything in statecraft or litera-
ture or art. At least three other contem-
porary Hindus have better political brains.
He was a failure at the Round Table Con-
ference in London. His methods, accord-
ing to an Englishman who sympathises with
him, were “irritating and futile”; his
speeches were “rambling and inconsequent.”
He moved in a mysterious way
His blunders to perform.
And he has been moving from blunder to
blunder ever since. The legendary saints
inspired enthusiasm by their elevated and
dignified characters. Gandhi seems to be
as ridiculous and erring as the next man.
In London, as a student, he wished to
“attain the accomplishments that go to-
ward the making of an English gentleman,”
so he took dancing lessons and bought a
ready-made dress suit and a gold watch
chain. At this time, he says in his auto-
biography, “I did not hesitate to pass my-
self off as a bachelor, though I was married
and the father of a son.” Later he turned
his long-suffering wife into the street and
he does not now live with her. At Rajkot
he tried to pull strings on behalf of 'his
brother, and was put out of the Political
Agent’s room by a servant. It filled him
with a far from holy rage, and the advice
of Sir Phirozeshab Mehta that he “would
gain nothing by legal action” was, he says,
“as bitter poison” to him. “This shock
changed the whole course of my life.”
A Disciple’s Estimate
The Man of Destiny, by Uma Maheswara
Rao (Audhra Jagati, 8 rs.), explains Gandhi’s
popularity among young Indians. The
author is a graduate of Allahabad Univer-
sity, and one of its shining lights, according
to a professor’s foreword. He believes that
Gandhi is as necessary to India “as Crom-
well was to England, Napoleon to France
or Lenin to Russia.” Gandhi stands for
the overthrow of the old order. The hard-
ships and humiliations which he suffered at
the hands of the master-race in England,
South Africa and elsewhere have endowed
him with the necessary bitterness. And he
is equipped by his education and the
peculiar life he has led to translate his
bitterness into effective action.
The commercial Gujerati who has under-
gone the training of a lawyer is the only
man to cope with a "lawlessly” lawful and
commercial race such as the British.
People of this writer’s type, whatever their
color, suffer from a grinding hatred of the
rich. Cromwell, to them, is the democratic
champion who lowered the pride of the
Cavaliers; Napoleon made marshals and
kings of the lowly-born; Lenin acquired
merit by slaying Russian aristocrats. A
politician, whether his name is Mahatma
Gandhi or J. T. Lang, who can establish
himself as a dreaded enemy of the affluent
is sure of a following. Gandhi has won addi-
tional support in India on traditional lines.
Before the Federal Structure Committee of
the Round Table Conlorcnce last year he
declared that under a National Govern-
ment “British capitalists would be dispos-
sessed without compensation so that grants
might be made to the downtrodden.” At
the same time he gave Mr. De Valera a
lead by submitting to Britain “a bill exceed-
ing one thousand millions sterling, based
on claims which included, inter alia, the
cost of the Indian Mutiny.”
His Overseas Appeal
It is understandable that Gandhi’s feats
of demagoguery should have caused him to
be worshipped by millions in his own
country; . but they are not enough to
account for the attention he has aroused
abroad. The author of “India on the
Brink in his new book, A Searchlight on
Gandhi (King and Son, 35.), supplies some
significant facts in this connection. The
master-impulse of Gandhi’s nature is
claimed not to be hatred of the rich, but
hatred of the English. It touches responsive
chords in every quarter of the earth, includ-
ing England. An English clergyman is
quoted a.s a warm supporter of the Ameri-
can clergyman who wrote “I dream of
India, I fervently pray for her, that she
may no longer be in bondage to strangers.”
De Valera exists politically on the hatred
of some Irishmen for England. Hatred of
England has always been rife in the U.S.A.,
and it can be
fanned to a blaze
by a single episode
or speech in Ger-
many or France.
In addition,
Gandhi is perhaps
the shrewdest publicity-monger who has
ever figured in world-politics. At a very
early stage of his career (in 1896) he re-
fused to remove his turban in a Durban
court, was ordered to leave, and wrote to
the papers about it.
“The question was much discussed in the
papers. Thus I got an unexpected adver-
tisement in South Africa within a few days
of my. arrival.”
His fantastic garments have attracted atten-
tion ever since, and he has played them
up, in conjunction with his comic appear-
ance, to such purpose that, while half the
world shudders at him as the inciter of
such deeds of blood as last year’s Cawnpore
horrors, another half laughs at him affection-
ately as a dark-skinned Charlie Chaplin.
The Cawnpore riots occurred because the
local Mohammedans refused to demonstrate
against the execution of a Hindu who had
murdered an English police officer. Their
shops were “peacefully picketed,” as is
permitted under the Irwin-Gandhi settle-
ment. Soon, to quote the “Statesman”
(16/4/’3l), “Mohallas with a Hindu
majority were slaughtering Moslems—men,
women and children—and Moslems were
doing the same to Hindus. As many as 600
were killed. The victims were hacked to
pieces.” Gandhi’s policy of Satyagraha
(non-violent civil disobedience) is simply
peaceful picketing in the national sphere.
The moment strong feeling is aroused it
necessarily develops into a challenge to the
Government. If the Government shows
weakness murder is done; otherwise fresh
arguments are supplied for its overthrow
as an instrument of tyranny.
An English Friend’s Judgment
It would be absurd to suggest that Gandhi
is no, more than a self-advertising fraud, or
that all Indians hate the British Raj.
Edward Thompson, most of whose poems
and dramas have been about India and
who has written a standard history of the
country, gives the other side of the picture.
The tragedy of the business is that Indians
like us better than they like any other aliens;
they have never been able to hate us as the
outside world holds that they ought to do.
Gandhi is personally likeable :
He never speaks unkindly of anyone. His
gentleness evokes response* in keeping. lie
is regarded by his gaolers, as by many other
Englishmen who hold perfectly correct
opinions, with an affection that subsists
easily alongside disapproval of his political
actions.
His political actions are innocuous in
themselves. India has preserved the tra-
dition of direct access to the ruler, and
whenever Gandhi has a grievance he insist
on talking about it at interminable length
to the Viceroy. This system of government
by conversations suits him.
His mind, politically, has never moved
above the village level or, at widest, the sub-
pi ovincial level—he is a Gujarati first and
last.
Not till he meets with a rebuff does he
show annoyance, and even then he only
threatens civil disobedience. He has a
sincere desire for peace. His idea of a com-
pletely satisfactory India is probably one
in which there is no fighting, and in Which
he is continually gaining concessions for
his countrymen at the expense of England
by defeating English officials in argument.
It, is because no great country can be
administered on such lines, coupled with
Gujarat s pride and faith in ißim, and its
position as the most inflammable part of
India, that non-violence has been respon-
sible for so much violence. Other European
races, Mr. Thompson points out, faced by
murderous organisations such as those which
batyagraha has given birth to, would have
shot and hanged them out of existence. The
British “prosecute the murderers anachro-
mstically for such crimes as 'proposing to
wage war against the King-Emperor’ and
seeking to deprive the King-Emperor of his
sovereignty over India.’ They have in-
vented a form of martyrdom which is mostly
garlands for its more distinguished prac-
titioners.” And so Gandhi and his lieuten-
ants grow m power and prestige. Two
forecasts by this judicial-minded writer who
loves India arid hates jingoism:— *
We have not ‘lost India’ yet, but the next-
two years will see it lost unless we win otR
far more than the handful of Moderates
I do not see how anything can save Bengal
■ m revolution, or civil war and massam-o.
RED PAGE.
A New War Book
A book which is likely to gratify its
author by rivalling the sales of “All Quiet
on the Western Front” is The Epic of
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


}N ADVERTISING”—PIain Facts, Open Dealing.
‘TRUTH
"THE SENIOR STORE ”
To pleose kiddies who want
é
s
ana
ease
parents who want value I
Every little Girl’s
Wish for Christmas
Teddy Bear, 3/6
The ever-popular Teddy
Bear Squeakers, 3/6, 4/6.
Growlers, each, 6/9, 8/9,
11/9, 14/6, 16/9, 19/6,
Baby Dolls from 1/-
Celluloid Baby Doll. First
quality. 10in., 1/-; 12in.,
1/9; 14in., 2/9; 16in., 3/9;
18in., 5/9; 20in„ 7/6; 22in.,
8/9; 24in., 11/9.
Cane and Seagrass Prams, 6/9
Doll’s Cane and Seagrass Pram, movable hood, iron
wheels. Prices , ; 6/9 ’!^o
With rubber-tyred wheels. Price y
Enamelled Cane Pram, lined throughout, enamelled
two-tone effects. Gondola shape. Price .... 52/b
619
r
m
ill
a*?
WiifflibmA'h
’V'.v'-v
it.* A'.',
1 i’iVN
ViVi'tS'iVi
WWW
PMsKsm
17|6
11/9
Enamelled Cane
Matting Pram,
from 17/6
Rubber-tyred wheels.
Prices—
-17/6, 27/9, 32/6, 45/-
Iron wheels.
Prices .... 10/6, 13/6
With rubber-tyred
wheels—
Prices .... 16/6, 17/6
Doll’s Cot, at 11/9
Doll’s Cot, in
Cane Matting.
Pink and Blue.
20 x 11 in
24 x 12 in
Others—
-13 x 7 in
15 x 8 in
18i x 10 in. ..
enamelled
Colors:
Sizes —
ll/!)
l3/6
2/3
3/-
7/6
Keep them healthy out-of-doors!
Juvenile Bicycle, £4/15/-
Juvenile Bicycle De-luxe. Ball bearings
throughout. Free and front Rim
Brake. Rustless tangent spoked wheels, 1 6m.
diameter, fitted with 1 in. Fluted Cushion
Tyres. Nickel-plated Handle Bars, Rubber
Grips and Pedals. Cycle Roller Chain.
Price, £4/15/-
Boys* Tricycles, 77/6 and 82/6
Tubular Frame Tricycle. Ball bearings,
heavily ribbed Cushion Tyres. Beautifully
finished in every respect.
No. 1. 1 6in. Front Wheel. Price .... 77/6
No. 2. 20in. Front Wheel. Price .... 82/6
fa'.l ■>
Express Waggon, from 4/3 each
All Iron Express Waggon, strong construc-
tion. Enamelled Red outside, Blue inside.
Prices 4/3, 7/6, 9/6
Boy’s Bushie Tent, 13/6
Bushie Tent, 4ft. x 5ft., complete with
poles, etc. Colored design on each side
of roof. Price 13/6
Price, without poles 11/6
Billy Carts, 14/6 and 21/-
Billy Carts. Strong and well finished.
Rubber-tyred wheels. Enamelled Green
outside, Red inside. Two sizes.
Prices 14/6, 21/-
Iron Barrows, 5/- and 6/-
Sturdy Iron Barrows. Iron wheel. Enam-
elled Red outside and Blue inside. Two
sizes. Prices 5/-> 6/-
Further Toys for Boys
Clockwork Aeroplane, from 2/6
Clockwork Aeroplane, of aluminium
finish metal, with hook and cord for sus-
pension. Prices, 2/6, 5/6, 7/6, 10/6
D
□
1
1
m
Special Wood Engine, from 3/9
Special Wood Engine, length 16 inches, with
working piston rods. Price 3/9
Others. Prices: 2/-, 4/9, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 16/6
( Toys—Second Floor. Free
c3s
Bobs Sets, from 12/6
Bobs Sets, complete with cue and 7 balls.
Sizes, inches 24 27 30 33 36 42
Prices, per set 12/6 13/6 15/6 17/6 22/6 25/-
Others. Prices, per set 9/6> H/6, 14/b
Hi
B*
Clockwork Train Sets, from 3/9
Clockwork Train Sets. Complete with rails and
carriages; nicely boxed.
Prices, set 3/9, 4/6, 6/9, 8/6, 11/6
delivery city and suburbs only.)
Anthony Horderns'
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
SYDNEY
*Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.


*
o*
oUP- Sa «£
c,-NA-O0 f.L
&
m
m
FEEL the grateful coolness
that greets your throat as
you draw your first puff.
Three-Sixes are s-m-o-o-t-h.
There’s not a trace of harsh-
ness to draw a protest from
the most sensitive throat.
Members of the famous
"Ardath” family, "Three-
Sixes,” are as near perfection
as cigarettes can be.
TENS
gd.
TWENTIES
(IN TINS)
1 ! 6
c ' •;
ft#
w®
H
T
O
O
Jkevj'Ji
M
State
And in 50s Flat Pocket Tins and 50s Round Airtight Tins,
47928—11-2*


£19/19 1-
The
British
Imperial
GOOD
COMPANION
Portable
A “Good
Companion ”
for the
Author or
Journalist
Press matter must be
typewritten . . . and
the ‘Good Companion’
is the New British Port-
able for the job. It is
so light and compact
that it can go with you
anywhere . . . ready in
an instant to record
good stories on the
spot.
The ‘Good Companion’
is easy to use and types
quickly, neatly and
legibly. Professional
men and travellers also
find it particularly
handy, and there are a
hundred uses for it in
the home and small
office.
Ask to see the New
British Imperial ‘Good
Companion’ at the
nearest agent.
L. DOBELL & CO., LTD., IMPERIAL TYPEWRITER SALES CO., GEO. RAITT & CO. ITA., LTD.,
43 Creek Street, Brisbane. 22 Martin Place, Sydney. 40 Queen Street, MLelbomne.
OFFICE EQUIPPERS, LTD., JOHNSON & HEY, OFFICE SUPPLIES CO.,
Gawler Place, Adelaide. Hunter Street, Newcastle. 105 Macquarie Street, Iloba t.
BURRIDGE & WARREN, LTD., 69 King Street, Perth.
Bang. Bang and Wang are two Oriental
countries which present reviewer is in-
clined to think exist only in the imagina-
tion of their chronicler. When the story
opens the two have been languidly engaged
for some months in hostilities over a frontier
dispute. It has not occurred to either bel-
ligerent to worry the outside world with
\\ffiat they regard as a mere domestic argu-
ment. However, the suspicions of the
“Chimes” newspaper, of London, are aroused,
and it dispatches a war correspondent, with
full credentials, to each capital. Mr. Gand,
the representative accredited to Janking, the
capital of Bang, has had experience of many
European wars, and is appalled at the con-
ditions he finds ruling in the ancient and
illustrious city. For example, enemy
nationals are still allowed to carry on their
business in the very heart of the capital
of their ancient foe. The possibility of the
enemy engaging in espionage has not.
occurred to anybody.
Mr. Gand soon alters this. Obtaining an
interview with the President, he informs
that lethargic statesman, who is engaged
in composing a poem on the first cuckoo of
spring, that his country is in danger of
becoming a world laughing-stock. The
phrase impresses the President, or else he
wants to be left alone to finish his poem,
for he immediately gives Mr. Gand a man-
date to do anything he thinks fit to remedy
affairs. Mr. Gand at once organises a bureau
of propaganda. A committee of university
professors and popular playwrights is dis-
patched to the front to obtain details of
atrocities committed by enemy troops. A
board of elderly spinsters is appointed to
direct spy hunts, while all the retired poli-
ticians capable of reading are enlisted for
the censorship, which suppresses everything
but Government documents and patriotic
speeches.
It is not long before Mr. Gand’s activi-
ties are rewarded. The country learns to its
horror that it is not engaged in a mere
frontier skirmish, but in a War to End War,
waged against an enemy so unscrupulous
that it had torn up 49 treaties before com-
mencing hostilities. It is found that the
people of Wang are barely human. Not
only are their soldiers in the habit of eating
dead Bangmen when short of bully beef,
but their transport is largely driven with
oil obtained from rendering down the
corpses of their own comrades in arms.
Meanwhile Mr. Dill, the “Chimes” repre-
sentative at the Court of Wang, has not
been idle. The ferocity with which the
Bangmen are now prosecuting the war, both
in the trenches and on the home front, has
already sufficiently alarmed the Govern-
ment, while the King has been nightly en-
raged at hearing himself described, in the
nightly bedtime talks sent out by the Bang
broadcasting station, as a hydrocephalic
monster of dubious ancestry who sucks the
blood of little children. Mr. Dill has, there-
fore, no difficulty in obtaining a commission
similar to Mr. Gand’s. He composes a
Hymn of Hate with a tune so catchy
that it is impossible for anybody not stone-
deaf to keep it out of his head. It creates
a wave of revulsion against Bang which
trebles the Wang enlistment figures. The
war is now being waged by both sides with
an intensity which surprises even Mr. Gand
and Mr. Dill. Neither party appears to be
prepared to stop short of annihilation.
“Our tanks must be garaged at Janking,”
cry the orators of Wang; and the orators
of Bang are equally eloquent.
There being originally more of them, the
Bangmen are victorious, and the armis-
tice bugles ring over a double mound of
corpses which stretches continuously from
500 miles inland to three miles out at sea;
but the passions aroused by Mr. Gand in
every Bang bosom that remains are by no
means allayed. A few economists venture
tb point out that, as Wang and Bang have
always been dependent on one another, it is
necessary for each country to assist the
other in the work of reconstruction so
urgently required. But the censorship still
operates, and the statesmen of Bang are
able to conceal the tremendous human and
material losses their country has suffered,
while magnifying the wealth of the defeated
Wang. A Government pledged to hang the
King of Wang and to extract from his sub-
jects the entire cost of the war is trium-
phantly returned to power. The indemnity
is fixed at £12,000,000,000, which financiers
interested in the commission business point
out Wang can pay out of its shale deposits
alone.
When the final chapter of this remarkable
work opens the war has been over for 23
vears, and the 38th Reparations Reduction
Conference has just been held. The Bang
delegate earns the respectful sympathy of
the assemblage by drawing a picture of the
misery of his country, where, owing to the
delivery of indemnity goods, there are
2,000,000 unemployed, while the factories of
Wang are working at full blast. His de-
mand for an immediate cessation of the
indemnity meets with a flat refusal from
the Wang representative, who takes his
stand on the sanctity of treaties, which,
he dramatically declares, his Government
will observe even to the point of war.
In the above resume of “Bang and Wang”
mention has not been made of the charming
love story, which runs through the plot like
a glittering thread. The style of the work
is somewhat flamboyant and stilted, but of
the author’s sincerity of purpose there can
be no doubt. The price of the book is
unusually low—ss. 6d. net —and it will be
written when I can find the time.
M. G. SKIPPER.
Booksellers’ Prices
A few home truths about booksellers
such as those told by “M.A.8.” (B.
16/10/’32) have been long overdue. Three
years ago, before primage and sales tax
were introduced, I tried to buy an Oxford
Concise English Dictionary. The price
demanded, was 10s. 6d.; the London pub-
lished price was 7s. 6d., so no business was
done. The representative of a London
newspaper, who was then running a Service
Club for the benefit of subscribers, and
incidentally supplying books at a reasonable
rate, imported the book for me and delivered
it at my front door, per post, inside two
months for eight shillings. The price would
have been 7s. 6d., but the parcel had been
sent to Sydney and I had to pay postage
from Sydney to Melbourne. About the
same time a Melbourne bookselling concern
paid a dividend of 16 per cent., some of its
prices being from 30 to 40 per cent, over
London prices.
All these tears on the part of booksellers
and schools concerning the iniquitous and
wicked tax on knowledge a.re of the croco-
dile order. Without a doubt the heaviest
and most unscrupulous taxes on knowledge
have been imposed by booksellers, nor
are schools and colleges exempt. Before
the present depression complaints were
numerous among parents at the frequent
and unnecessary changes of textbooks—
grammars, mathematical books and the
like—books that might easily run for years
but for the itch of the college book depart-
ment for spoof. Taxes on knowledge! Why,
the Government is only a beginner at the
game. Contrast all this with the conditions
of 40 years ago when booksellers aimed at
something more than dividends. Then, a
regular customer might obtain his books
at the London price less a discount of a
penny in the shilling. A Browning pub-
lished at ss. cost me only 4s. 7d. in those
days, and many a shilling book have I
bought for lid.!
BOXL.
A Satchel of Books
Windsor, written, illustrated (with a
woodcut opposite every page) and pub-
lished by Quinton Tidswell, is an admirable
little history of the old N. S. Wales town.
Most of its ancient buildings are depicted
and discussed, including Greenway’s St.
.Matthew’s Church, which looks as solid
to-day as when the emancipist-architect fin-
ished' it in 1821. The edition is limited to
250 copies.
J. J. Hardie’s Cattle Camp is a capital
bush novel which won a prize and ran as
a serial through The Bulletin. It is full
of thrills —as, for example, when Ken, the
hero, rides Wall-eye, the Linton outlaw, to
a standstill at Carinda. After some war
experiences which are rather less stirring
than the happenings in the earlier part of
the book, Jim returns to marry the right
girl. The publisher is Frank Johnson, Syd-
ney, and the price 6s.
Googlics, by Dr. 11. V. Hordern (Angus
and Robertson ; 65.), contains the reminis-
cences of Australia’s original exploiter of
the mystery ball. His varied cricketing
career has enabled him to write of the game
as played in the Australian bush, Canada,
the U.S.A. (of Philadelphia’s cricket clubs
he says “There is only one word for them,
and that is ‘magnificent’”), Bermuda,
Jamaica, and England ; and ail his writing
is bright. Tom Glover’s drawings, most of
which are extremely funny, add to the
interest.
Sea Voices, by A. W. R. McNicoll, is a
truly astonishing production. The contents
arc a couple of dozen poems mostly about
the sea, which is the author’s element, he
being an officer aboard the Canberra. They
are all meritorious, but where the book
stands out as phenomenal is in its binding,
printing and decorations. They are exquisite.
In format this little volume can be com-
pared with the best efforts of overseas art
publishers, and it was wholly produced by
the illustrator, G. C. Ingleton, on board the
Canberra during a cruise round Australia
this year. The edition is limited to 260
copies, which may be had from all Austra-
lian booksellers, while they last, at 7s. 6d.
each.
And a Little Verse
SEA PATH.
Dropped petals of a broken lotus-moon
Lay curled, and strewn
Upon the sea.
A night-bird whimpered faintly in its tree;
And as we went with lantern swinging
And carried low,
Its light kept fiercely flinging
Our shadows on the jungle like a foe.
The steep path downward twined;
We passed : it seemed to close behind.
Almost in reach,
The tide slept on the bosom of the beach.
We swam, two shapes in one phosphoric
trail,
Diffused as when two tellers blur a tale.
Then we stood still, as mangroves do
Awash with quiet currents rippling through.
Smooth water like the blessing of a priest
Flowed tepidly across our clasping hands —
Salt water (such are tears!), the drained
and ceased
Adorning sorrow of deserted sands.
That nuptial intonation of the waves
Shall hold us bound no less than prisoners
or
Than those whom marriage bitterly en-
chains,
Though we take separate pathways ever-
more.
N.T.
FREDERICK T. MACARTNEY.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of. a hostile character) will he taken oj communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted j
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.W.W.: You’ve drowned a very interest-
ing little topic in a flood of words. This paper
is a whale for facts... .G.J.L.: How do you propose
to make international settlements?... .J.S.L.: (1)
Nothing in any Constitution to prevent sale of rail-
ways. (2) Railway finances everywhere are in a
bad way; in Britain and America it is impossible
to raise capital for necessary reconditioning. (3)
Doubtful if a buyer could be found without heavy
writing down of capital... .F.J.S.: Hopeless at that
length. Can’t spare more than about 300 words
for a “suggestion”... .Patriot: Thanks for the sug-
gestion ; but you’re asking us to do something we
don’t know anything at all about... .C.R.A.: Don’t
as a rule mention here the refusal of likely stuff
lest it should prejudice the acceptance of it else-
where.... Ross G.: Obscure.. . .F.J.F.: “For the
Christmas number, if not too late,” eh? Well,
we’ll take a chance with one verse: —
One day not a hundred miles from Sydney city
On a main road I met a decrepit old man
Sitting on a dry log joyfully bumming a bush ditty.
He had a digger’s outfit, a swag and a billycan.
I filled his baccy pipe with the fragrant weed,
Handed him to liven him up my grog flask
And said the story of his life would please me,
indeed,
If he would unfold it while we in sylvan shade
did bask.
Val: It’s true that Tiie B. approved of the
Federal Government’s plan for helping the wheat-
farmer if it is approval to say that ’the “principle
behind it is utterly wrong” and that it excludes the
men who most deserve assistance... .Consumer: Said
a thousand times. But what are you going to do
about it? .A.M.H.: Hopeless at that length. And
your quotations are apt to be wrong... .S.M.G.:
You’ll not make any progress that way. Pick out
something you have special knowledge about and
write. If there is no such subject, then there is
little hope for y0u.... Dafas: Too long; it might
be put much more directly... .Indignant: Much
obliged. But “London Opinion” isn’t a thief, as a
rule. No editor can know every joke that has been
printed, and there is a queue always waiting to
pass off stolen property. .. .K. 8.: Needs brightening
in the middle... .F.R.: Murder story reads like a
mangled police-court report. .. .W.J.J.: You go wool-
gathering too often... .A.D.: Left bar-loungers to their
snarling. .. .W.M.: Still sorting cut Clara’s host of
relatives; most of them were superfluous... .H.J.M.:
What a depressing soothsayer you are!.... J.D.K.: A
trifle too bare. .. .R.P.H.: Hopeless... .8.P.: Safe in
the w.p.b M.E.S.: Childish J.D.: Very badly
written... .M.A.R.: Can’t swallow it... .C.J.8.W.:
It upset us for the rest of the day... .0.8. T.:
Might suit a Sunday paper N.F.: Just a novel-
ette with abos. taking the place of the stereotyped
hero and heroine... .R.F.S.: Needs strengthening
throughout... -X.8.: If that’s how you write, stop
eating lobster for supper... .R.E.G.: Off our beat.
... . M.R.: “You’ll remember me’’—don’t flatter your-
self ! G.L.: Idea 01d....L.G.: Would want to see
more of her work; sample submitted much too
juvenile... .Miss Eve: It doesn’t make us want to
go and do likewise. .. .M.C.A.U.: Too sketchy and
conventional... .J. A.: Covers no new ground....
Esseff: Sorry, can’t afford the space to explain why
we don’t print pars, or articles... .J.R.D.: Can’t
grasp the idea.... Mulga M.: All we deny is the
right of the g.-m. of a bank who happens to be,
say, a land nationaliser to use the institution, its
funds and its prestige in the interests of land
nationalisation. .. .G.M.8.: The best of the bunch is
“Queensland,” and the third verse of that is tottery.
....Pierce G.: It brings the atmosphere, but it
has nothing else... . H.JIP.: Those seasonal rhymes
have to be very well done. Yours are only well done.
. ...H.H.S.: Not hopeless. But you haven’t got
much to say. .. .Thomas T. T.: Glib; not otherwise
outstanding... .M.M.: Hardly ; though there’s merit
in both. Last lines of “Suburbia” flop Eric F.:
Sounds insincere E.S.G.: Nearly three columns —
surely you didn’t expect to get it printed!....
J. : A start has been made already with such
a bank, with headquarters in Switzerland... .R.M.:
Room-hunting adventures very tame... .R.W.A.:
Story of strange doings at the Eight-mile Hut fell
among sceptics... .W.F.: An old A.I.F. yarn....
C.H.F.: It would have taken more than that to
shift Splodge. .. .D.J.C.: Started an epidemic of
yawning in the office... .F.W.: Good idea poorly
handled... .R.8.N.: Lame finish.... J.C.: Much too
long. .. . J.T.M.: It nearly brought home the bacon.
. ...H.E.8.: Only the framework of a story.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
N. 8.: Joke about Chinese cook would put a
glutton off his tucker... .R.J.S.: Dislike those
niggardly lines.. .D.W.: All the figures are petrified...
C.J.M.: What does the tangled mass in the middle
represent ?... . F.L.: Time the drill sergeant found
a new joke E.C.T.: Jest doesn’t sparkle
K. Prefer to wait until you complete the course.
. ...M.S.: Some well-drawn bits, but ensemble has
a patchy appearance... .G.R.: Why depict all your
cockies as crumpled concertinas?... .11.J.D.: All that
energy wasted!... .J.S.: More balance and a firmer
line needed G.H.R.: Can’t recall your previous
efforts, but can scarcely believe they were worse
than latest batch P.L.: Blending of infantile
humor and a Neville Cayley style won’t carry you
far....C.F.: Neat drawing; feeble jest... .D.A.C.:
Wretched.


ns
n
■
■HM
■
mm
i ■
? **
« B
■ m
*» _ .
■
■
I
WWW
«>S8r
■a
11
i S :; M
■•-■ J
■
:
' :
: :
■I
■
: '-y
...
mm
1 .
A ■* ■ . . .'... '.-'sKv.
-
£■11
.
mm m
iirmhmii
m
H ■
f!,:
*J||§
H
BBBBBBBI
I;;;
■1 '
a
s* -■ I
IS 'ii j§
11
If I * ' •
gfflip h% v *?> M -
■
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vo!. 53. —No. 2756.
December 7, 1932.
HARK!


TWO
“BULLETINS”
IN ONE
NEXT WEEK
In the past the ordinary
"Bulletin” and the "Christmas
Bulletin” were issued sepa-
rately. This year they will be
produced in one great com-
bined number, and sold for
sixpence.
There is more original reading
matter in this great number
than in two full-sized novels.
NEXT WEEK—6d.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; >Phone 87971.
Victoria: lllf-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, H Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.t.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 \s.; 6 months, 12c, 6d.;
i months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £l 10s.;
t months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months. Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route’’: Id. for 6os.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for l/oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
UNCLE SAM AND THE WAR
DEBTS.
The Great War began in August,' 1914;
America’s declaration did not come till
April, 1917. During this period of nearly
three years America maintained its tradi-
tional policy of non-intervention in the
affairs of Europe. From the outset many
of its best-known citizens had disapproved
of this aloofness. Theodore Roosevelt, a
former President, had cried in plain anguish
against his country’s failure to protest against
the German violation of Belgium. But,
though there were many men of the Roose-
velt stamp, it is unhappily not a fact that
the nation divided itself into two camps,
one for war and the other against it. For
over two years there was indeed no war party
worth mentioning. There were two parties,
it is true. A considerable section, led bv
Woodrow W ilson, honestly hated war and
believed that it was no part of America’s
duty to enter into European conflicts. We
mostly read history as we want to read it,
and for a hundred years and more America
had been opening its arms wide to all
Europe. “We arc,” said President Wilson
as late as March, 1917, “a composite and
cosmopolitan people. We are of the blood
of all the nations that are at war.” And
there was a far greater section which
saw in the war merely an opportunity to
make money out of other people’s folly and
wickedness.
There can be no doubt that in
the end Germany felt that America
would not lose its most wonderful money-
making opportunity no matter what hap-
pened. But Germany miscalculated. America
might not be willing to come into the
quarrel because of anything, no matter how
outrageous, that might be done in Europe:
but it was not willing to permit its good
trade to be interfered with. Mr. Lansing
in April, 1916, had called on the
German Government to abandon its “sub-
marine warfare against passenger and
freight-carrying vessels.” The German Gov-
ernment had appeared to consent to this.
But it was only making its preparations;
and at the end of January, 1917, it notified
that on the following day it would recom-
mence unrestricted submarine warfare. On
April 2 President Wilson advised Congress
that “the recent course of the Imperial
Government” was “in fact nothing less
than war against the Government and the
people of the United States.” “We have
no selfish ends to serve,” he declared in
another address. “We desire no conquest,
no dominion. We seek no indemnities for
ourselves, no material compensation for the
sacrifices we shall freely make. We are but
one of the champions of the rights of man-
kind.”
Such, then, was the position in America
up to the final break, and such was the
cause of the break. In the very nature of
the case there could have been no prepara-
tion for war in such an America. It was “of
the blood of all the nations that were at
war,” sorry for their quarrels, maybe, but
very glad to do any business that might
spring out of those quarrels and not con-
cemed to share otherwise in them. “Too
proud to fight”—and that was without
doubt the sincere statement of the Presi-
dent’s attitude—it was both too proud and
too discreet to make any preparation to
fight. Up to this time, it is important to
remember, the United States Government
had not lent Britain or the Allies one
penny. As a neutral it could not do so.
Its people, certainly, had lent money, in
the way of private investments; and they
had bought back from Britain great quan-
tities of American securities. But every
penny of the money which Britain and the
Allies owe the United States, and which has
been the subject of Conferences and Notes,
was advanced by the United States after
the latter had agreed to come into the war,
asking “no material compensation for the
sacrifices we shall freely make,” but as
“one of the champions of the rights of
mankind.” The money, moreover, was ex-
pressly made available “to the Govern-
ments engaged in war with the enemies
of the United States,” and the credits were
authorised “for the purpose of more effectu-
ally providing for the national security and
defence, and for prosecuting the war.” And
there was more behind that pi’ovision “for
the national security and defence” than
appears on the surface; a note dated
January 19 from Berlin to Mexico had
been intercepted proposing in the event
of war “an offensive and defensive alliance
between Germany, Mexico and Japan,”
Mexico being lured with the prospect of
recovering lost territory.
So America was in the war; it was now
an enemy that Germany was entitled to
damage where it could and how it could.
That Germany did not send an army
against an utterly and deliberately unpre-
pared America was due to the fact that
the Allies stood in the way. During tl>is
period America did not, could not, put
one soldier into the fighting lines in France.
Looking back after six years the Com-
mander-in-Chief of the American armies
in France said:—
What was the situation in 1917? We had no
plans, no preparation, no artillery, no transportation,
no ships—in fact, nothing. If it had not been that
the Allies were able to hold the lines for 15 months
after we had entered the war, hold them with the
support of loans v r e made, the war might well
have been lost.
And he proceeded:—
It seems to me....we should bear a certain part
of the expense in maintaining the allied armies
on the front while we were preparing, instead of
calling all this money a loan and insisting on its
payment. We were responsible. We gave the
money knowing it would be used to hold the Boche
until we could prepare. Fifteen months! Think
of it!
What happened in those 15 months? On
the one side, fighting now the fight of
America, in the great struggle, but unable
as yet to do more than provide the funds,
the Allies themselves having been bled dry
—on the one side, we say, the Allies were
sacrificing their manhood and suffering all
the personal agonies which only a nation in
the fighting line can suffer. The Allies lost
3.500,000 lives, and that awful 15 months
of smashing blows was responsible for cer-
tainly 700,000 of them. On the other side,
America was ticking up a bill not merely
of money advanced but of interest on
money advanced. As their share in the
joint adventure the Allies were reaping
death and America was reaping dollars.
Let us admit freely that America won the
war. But it w r as not with the armies it
landed in France. How little they really
counted may be judged by the fact that,
whereas France alone lost 1,445,000 killed
and 4,000,000 wounded, America’s total loss
was 50,000 killed, 210,000 wounded. America
won the war with the money which it was
able to supply the Allies “for the purpose
of more effectually providing for the
national security and defence, and for
prosecuting the war.” Now it wants the
money back, and interest with the prin-
cipal.
But it is true that Britain and its allies
signed the bond. We had reached a stage
when nothing mattered but to win—we
were prepared to sign almost anything, to
promise almost anything. Britain has never
made even the shadowiest suggestion that
it might repudiate its share of the debt on
that account—this debt of billion dollars
for principal and 11 billion dollars for inter-
est. But to the credit of a body of men in
the United States, an unceasing agitation
has proceeded there on behalf of the
national reputation for fair dealing. If the
agitation does not succeed, but if America
insists upon its full pound of flesh, asking
if it is not so nominated in the bond, the
world will be bound very regretfully to re-
member Uncle Sam as being too proud to
fight but not too proud to charge interest
on the money he supplied to others that
they might do his fighting.
THE LAW-APPEAL, SCANDAL.
Some time ago Marlow, Rolls Theatres,
Ltd., an Australian co., went into liquida-
tion. On the list of preference shareholders
appeared the name of T. E. Rofe. Mr.
Rofe took the point, in effect, that the
directors had issued these shares and not
the co., and he asked that his name be
struck off the list. The Master in Equity
in Sydney excluded Rofe’s name. There
was an appeal to the Chief Judge in Equity,
who reversed the Master’s ruling and re-
stored the name. From the Chief Judge
in Equity the case went to the High Court,
which held that the company’s articles of
association did not give the directors power
to create shares; so again Rofe’s name was
struck off the list. But once more the
liquidator appealed, this time to the Privy
Council, and the Privy Council reversed
the order of the High Court and restored
Rofe’s name. So it was on and off and
on and off and is on again. And that is
law. Of course the Privy Council is
right. Somebody must have the last word;
and in this case it is the Privy Council.
But it is safe to say that most of the men
who have decided the other way are still
of exactly the same opinion as they were
before the Privy Council spoke.
Should we give litigants the right to go
on from court to court in this fashion?
In this case it may be that no great harm
has been done. Rofe is reputedly a very
wealthy man, and no doubt provided a
great deal of his own legal advice; and the
other party had a considerable estate to
play with. But in thousands of cases only
one party has large means at command;
and then—as in the case of a taxation de-
partment, for example—the command of
means is used to terrorise the other into
compliance. What, he asks, is the use of
winning a victory in a lower court when
victory means costly appeal upon appeal?
More might be said for the process if the
lower Court were always wrong and the
higher Court always right. But here we
have the assurance of the Privy Council
that even our High Court was wrong; and
if the Privy Council had been differently
constituted—if one learned old gentleman
had not happened to be ill and another
learned old gentleman had not happened to
be out of town—it is quite possible that the
Privy Council’s own decision would have
been different.
The truth is that Courts, being human, are
fallible; and it is not at all certain that the
higher they get the less fallible they are—
within certain limits, of course. In the
circumstances should not a strenuous effort
be made to cut down this flood of litiga-
tion which is a tremendous expense to the
community as well as to the individual?
Some good might be produced if every pair
of litigants were formally asked at the
outset of every hearing whether they con-
sented to be bound by the decision of that
Court. Wrongs, no doubt, would be done
under such a system; but wrongs are done
now, and greater wrongs are done through the
person in command of means terrorising
the poor man into putting up with an in-
justice by the threat of appeal upon appeal.
Yet, since it will probably not be possible
to get from the man with command of
means an undertaking to renounce the
right of appeal, the party who undertakes to
accept the finding of the first Court—in civil
matters, of course—ought to be freed from
any expense in connection with any appeal
which the other party might choose to
make.
Something more even than that ought
to be done where the Crown is the plain-
tiff in a suit. Generally—especially in re-
gard to matters of taxation—a public ser-
vant. with the public’s Treasury at his dis-
posal, asks the Courts to decide something
which the Parliament ought to decide. The
law on the subject may be obscure; in such
cases generally is obscure. But instead of
the obscurity being referred to Parliament,
as it should be, the case goes to a Judge
or a Bench of Judges who at best can
only guess at what Parliament meant. It
should be for Parliament to make the law,
not the Bench; and where there is such
obscurity in the law that a serious dispute
has arisen, the matter ought to be reported
to Parliament before any action at law is
permitted. For this purpose there should
be a standing committee on Crown actions,
to decide in effect whether an action con-
templated by a public department was one
which ought properly to go before the
Courts that they might declare the law, or
whether it was desirable that Parliament
itself should clarify the position.
WHITE MEN IN OUR TROPICS.
The death of Sir Ronald Ross, the man
who discovered the cause of malaria, set
“Feng-Shui” talking about the white man
in the tropics (B. 16/11/’32). It had been
said that Dr. Ross’s discovery had enlarged
the habitable globe by one-third. But
“Feng-Shui” insisted that the mosquito is
not the only factor in the case; and he
proceeded to show how the white man lives
in those tropics which “Feng-Shui” knows
so well and describes so brilliantly. He starts
off, very often, by drinking heavily; he
becomes a victim of monotony; he tends
to lose his individuality; he is neurasthenic,
and suffers from exaggerated fears. He
seldom marries until late in life, and mean-
time is very liable to have experiences in
which his conscience is at war with his
instincts. “So,” says “Feng-Shui,” “the
future of the white man in the tropics
depends largely on the extent to which the
empires which send him forth can stand
the strain of the sacrifice of their blood to
ennui, the equatorial Jezebel.” That is
the conclusion of a writer who has studied
the problem during many years of residence
in Java, Borneo, the Malay Peninsula,
India, China and Japan.
Is it any wonder that men who had gone
to those countries to study the problem of
white settlement in the tropics told us
that the attempt to develop our own North
by white people was impossible? But the
far-sighted citizens who raised the banner of
a White Australia saw that we had excep-
tional circumstances working for us. No
great native population occupied this con-
tinent. Even in the most fertile parts,
whether within or beyond the tropic zone.
Black Brother was no farmer, and hence
was few in numbers and nomadic. When,
therefore, we looked to the North we real-
ised that if we were to develop it \ye must
do the work ourselves or bring in large
numbers of coolie laborers, thus repro-
ducing the very conditions which “Feng-
Shui” describes. Those conditions have
changed very little with the years. What
they are to-day they were 50 years ago.
The far-sighted men of that period saw 7
that it would be worth making a tremen-
dous effort to save Australia from such con-
ditions; and circumstances conspired to
allow the great experiment to be made.
If we want to test whether it has been a
success we can do it by comparing life in
the tropics as it is lived in Java, Borneo
and the Malay Peninsula, and life as it is
lived in our own sugar country. The two
are so different that sometimes we find our-
selves refusing to believe that these north-
ern sugar lands are tropical lands at all.
Yet. the map leaves it in no doubt. The
Temperate Zone stops before it reaches
Rockhampton. Half of Brazil and all Bol-
ivia in S. America and Bechuanaland, Ny-
assaland and Portuguese East Africa are
within the same latitudes as Queensland.
Had there been a colored population in
the North capable of wearing the white
man’s harness, or had we rushed the impor-
tation of colored labor from Asia, the
white man in the North would have been the
alien and the bird of passage he is in every
other tropical country. Happily, having taken
up the land—as the land-hungry white man
will do wherever the land may be—he was
driven to work it himself. At first he had
some help from the temporary kanaka;
but always he was more than an overseer
and an administrator; never was it beneath
his dignity to take off his coat and do what-
ever .work the colored man might do. So he
made his home on his land; thither he
took his wife and there he reared his family;
and thus he avoided those pitfalls which
lie in wait for the white man in other
tropic countries. To-day sons and grand-
sons occupy the. farms of the pioneers; and
thriving towns have grown up all along the
coast from Bundaberg to Cooktown to
serve the needs of those who work the land.
Yet there never haif been a time when the
old fear was quite dead. As late as 1920.
when the Australasian Medical Congress was
held in Brisbane, the principal subject for
discussion was “the possibility of the per-
manent occupation of Tropical Australia
by a healthy indigenous white race.” The
finding of a special committee was adopted:
there were no inherent or insuperable
obstacles in the way, but a great deal re-
quired to be done to put effective settle-
ment on a satisfactory basis. As to the
white Australian’s capacity to do all the
work that is to be done there is no longer
any doubt among those who have con-
sidered the results. Where the field labor
is mixed, there has been abundant oppor-
tunity to test the relative capacity of
various national groups. It is the common
experience that British—mostly Australian
—gangs head the list; Italians stand next;
Japanese are at the bottom.
But it is as true to-day as it was in 1920
that a great deal requires to be done to
put white settlement on a satisfactory basis.
The pioneers took few comforts with them,
and their descendants still have few. For
the men this matters less than for the
women: the men have their outdoor inter-
ests to absorb them. For the women life
in Central and North Queensland is still hard
and drab. Moreover, the cost of most
things is very high: the markets in the
south are far away and communication is
dear. A characteristic story was told lately
in The Bulletin. A Sydney house proposed
to sell a traveller’s well-used motor-car and
provide a new one for a trip north. They
had an offer of £4O in Sydney. The traveller
recommended that he should drive the old
’bus north, sell it there and travel south
by boat. His principals agreed. In Brisbane
he was offered £5O for the car. At
hampton he could get £6O, at Townsville
£7O; at Cairns he sold it for £BO.
Australia’s Tropic North might be treated
in three ways. (1) It might be left to
itself and the future; and the world is get-
ting so crowded, and Asia, the most over-
crowded part of all, is so near, that this
policy would amount to the perpetual
menace of occupation by some foreign
Power. (2) It might be turned into just
such another tropical country as “Feng-
Shui” described, where colored people
spawn, where their diseases would be a
constant peril to the South, where the white
man would be an alien overseer, taking
no interest in his environment. In view of
the activity of Communist propaganda
among Asiatic colored races, there would
be perpetual danger in that kind of occu-
pation, too. (3) It might be gradually
and safely occupied and developed, as it is
being gradually occupied and developed, by
our own race, finding in its rich lands a
fruitful field for employment, living (as
statistics prove) as healthy and natural a
life as the southern communities, turning
to their own people in the south for such
necessaries of life as they cannot supply for
themselves, and infinitely valuable for pur-
poses of national defence.' The assistance
the South is asked to give the sugar indus-
try is a small price for a continent to pay
to achieve such settlement as that and save
us from either of the earlier alternatives.
P. H. S.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Ally of Karl Marx.
There is in Australia probably not more
than 10 per cent, of opinion in favor of the
establishment of complete State Socialism.
Even the multi-colored careerists who pro-
fess to lead Labor fight shy of the “social-
isation of the means of production, distribu-
tion and exchange,” no matter how many
times they have signed their names to that
plank of their platform; and the notion
is the pet abomination of every other poli-
tical party. Yet the nation goes steadily
marching in that precise direction, with the
tax-collector as drum-major. And, ironi-
cally enough, the greater the inefficiency of
the public management of public utilities,
the more rapid becomes the rate at which
the resources of the nation are socialised.
• The statistical evidences of the process
are unmistakable. At the inception of
Federation the total amount of Govern-
ment revenue, Commonwealth and State,
was about £35,500,000, and 28K p.c. of it
was revenue from taxation. The rest was
derived from the earnings of the services
and public property of the nation. By the
end of the Great War the Government
revenue had swollen to £85,000,000, and
37.8 p.c. of this vast sum was taxation
money. By 1928-29 —the eve of the Great
Slump—Government revenue had more than
doubled itself, having risen to £190,000,000
(probably close on a third of the whole
national income), and the percentage obit
derived from taxation had risen to 43.8.
That indicates a very rapidly-rolling snow-
ball; and there appears to be little reason
to cherish the hope that current financial
troubles, though they have greatly decreased
the national income, have exerted any per-
manent' check on the process. A very large
part of our budget-balancing efforts is com-
prised in short-term borrowing, the bill for
which will be sent to to-morrow’s posterity.
We have not ascertained how much the
tax-collector can take from the community’s
pocket and still leave that community in
a position to function as a Capitalist State;
but it is a matter of simple arithmetic that
there must come a stage at which the
State will bankrupt the citizens —the inevit-
able outcome of a system under which a
State is perfectly free to increase its finan-
cial liabilities indefinitely, with infinite
powers of taxation, and no constitutional
or in any way recognised obligation to take
into consideration capacity for repayment.
That such a system is democratic will not
save it from the hard bump that waits for
any economic system that is dishonestly
improvident. In the meantime, the equity
in Australia is rapidly shifting from the
private property-owner to the State, and it
is an expropriation process without compen-
sation. The tax collector has become Karl
Marx’s most powerful ally.
♦
“Only for Political Purposes.’’
In Sydney Hugh Denison and other well-
known business men sued Mr. Lang’s Labor
paper claiming heavy damages for libel.
After the case had been opened counsel
for the defendant paper and for the other
defendant—Sleeman, the Lang Govern-
ment’s “publicity officer”- —“expressed regret
that the article was ever published. It was
intended only for political purposes, and
it was never intended to reflect on the
personal character or conduct of any of
the plaintiffs. The defendants,” he added,
“unreservedly admitted that there was no
foundation for any of the aspersions made
on the personal character or conduct of
any of the defendants.” So the case was
settled, on terms’ not disclosed.
But something else is disclosed, and that
is the degradation of politics and political
life. “We never intended to reflect on the
personal character or conduct of these men,”
these party propagandists say; “we only pub-
lished and broadcast our false statements for
political purposes.” What can this mean but
that they were prepared to lie about private
citizens in order to obtain a political advan-
tage? What can it mean but that they
were prepared to mislead the public, even
at the expense of private citizens’ repu-
tations, in order to obtain votes? They
draw line between what it is per-
missible to do for political and other pur-
poses: what they would never think of
doing for the one they will cheerfully do
for the other; to politics and the winning
of votes ordinary rules of conduct do not
apply.
It ig time the Labor party seriously con-
sidered whether it will countenance such
immorality. It is, of course, told that the
end justifies the means. Let the hundreds
of thousands of honest men of the party
not be deceived. The same glozing tale
has been told over and over again to cloak
private rogueries. The liar and the rogue
may be a liar and a rogue for the benefit
of his fellow-man; but wouldn’t it be
safer to trust the man who stands by
tnith and honesty?
«
Cricket.
A thousand changes have been made in
cricket since, nearly two centuries ago, the
King’s Bench held that it was not an illegal
but, on the contrary, “a veiy manly game,
not bad in itself, but only in the ill-use
made of it by betting more than £lO on it;
that was bad and against the law.” Its
record nevertheless had been nothing. to
be proud of. For the most part, to begin
with, it had, been played at hop-fairs and
the like: Kent was the home of it. And
worse. “Maidstone,” said one shocked
recorder, “was formerly a very profane
town, in as much as I have seen mornce
dancing, cudgel-playing, stool-ball, crickets
and many other sports openly and ; P u °"
licly indulged in on the Lord’s Day.” It
was no field game in those dark times
either: the bowler bowled and the batsman
preserved his wicket if he could —little
more than a variant of skittles, and. suited
to the green of the village inn, with heavy
wagers staked upon it.
Gradually, however, it spread away from
the alehouse, and by 1744 it was well
enough established to call for a set of
written rules; four years later the famous
King’s Bench judgment was pronounced;
within another three years it had achieved
the greater advertisement of causing the
death of a Prince of Wales, Frederick Louis
having died from internal injuries follow-
ing a blow from the ball. There is no
doubt that this misadventure had great
influence upon the game: and for many
years nothing was watched so carefully as
the bowler’s delivery. The Hambledon rule
was that if any part of the hand or arm
should be raised above the elbow the
umpire must cry it a no-ball. But in the
end it was the jerk that had to be the
most carefully guarded against. Chalk was
sprinkled on the inside of the bowlers
elbow: if a chalk mark was found upon his
side, then he was no-balled. So, lest they
should be penalised though innocent, or
in other cases to show their scorn of the
illegitimacy, bowlers gradually held their
hands further from their bodies; and thus
the round-arm came.
It was a bitter controversy, that between
the under-arm and the round-arm —or
throwing-bowling, as its enemies called it.
Sussex was its champion; and that county
challenged All-England. The Test of three
matches —the first recorded Test series in
all history—came in 1826; but, after the
first two, which Sussex won, nine of the
professionals refused to take part m the
third “unless the Sussex bowlers bowl fair,
that is, abstain from throwing.” Neverthe-
less, the day of the round-arm was almost
won; and in 1844 a revised law read that
the ball must not be thrown or jerked “and
the hand must not be above the shoulder
in delivery.” It took another 22 years to
extend the sanction to the “over-arm”—
22 years of constant struggle to speed up the
game.
Now we seem to be witnessing another
change. The “jerk” was prohibited be-
cause of the danger to the batsman. To-
day we are introducing what are called
“shock tactics”; that is to say, we are setting
out to demoralise the batsman by deliber-
ately endangering him. We even go to
the length of leaving the wicket alone: we
bowl at the batsman, not, it may. be, in
the hope of injuring him and so putting him
out of the game, but certainly in the hope
of destroying what in war-time we called
his morale.. And there is little doubt that
in certain cases we do succeed. It is not
for us to say that it is not cricket. Cricket
is not static; as we have seen, it never
has been static. All we can say is that it
is again changing its character. As history
has shown, cricket is whatever we choose to
make it.
Somehow, it is no doubt true, the game
must be speeded up; and it may be that it
can be done in this new way. It is a tre-
mendous tribute to it that it should have
been able to retain its hold upon the people
notwithstanding that a single match may
run into five days. Whether it is not also a
tremendous reflection upon ourselves is
another matter. Has the world so little
to do that it can really afford to partici-
pate in such gradual sport?
A Northern Territory Railway.
An Australian syndicate has taken the
first step towards asking for a 66-years’
lease of 40,000 square miles of country on
the mainland of the Northern Territory,
200.000 acres of freehold and a 99-years’
lease of Melville and Bathurst islands, or
of one of them. What Australia is to get
in return is not clear. All that has been
announced is that certain London interests
with which the syndicate is said to have
been in touch “definitely intimate that,
provided the Government will guarantee
a bond issue on terms to be agreed upon,
and will make available on a reasonable
basis territorial concessions for develop-
mental purposes, they will construct and
finance” certain works. The syndicate
proposes:—
(а) The increasing of the existing 3ft. 6m. gauge
railway to the standard 4ft. 81 in. between Darwin
and Birdum and the wharf at Darwin, a distance of
approximately 316 J miles, and will provide any addi-
tional wharfage accommodation that may be found
necessary.
(б) The construction of the railway from Birdum
to Bourke (N-S.W.) on a standard gauge of 4ft.
B*in., a distance of approximately 1361 miles.
"(cj The provision of all rolling stock and other
equipment necessary for the maintenance and opera-
tion of the railway from Darwin to Bourke—a
distance of approximately 1677 miles.
(<f) The maintenance and operation, if desired, of
the railway from Darwin to Bourke from the date
of completion of the whole line under such conditions
and for such period of years as shall be agreed upon
with the Commonwealth Government.
Whatever else it may be this plainly is no
ordinary land-grant railway. “Give us land
concessions,” the land-grant railway pro-
moter says, “and .we will build the line
and operate it for ourselves under agreed-
upon restrictions as to fares,..freight-rates,
etc.” Apparently what this syndicate says
is; “If .you will guarantee the .interest on
a bond issue, we will help you to get the
money to build the line, etc. We will spend
the money, if you like, and maintain and
operate the railway, if you desire, for a period
of years, on terms to be agreed upon.” In
return for something which is so far ex-
ceedingly vague, the syndicate will get the
land concessions named. Something much
more definite than all this must be put
forward before the proposal can be judged
as good, bad or horrible.
Thus far the only definitely objection-
able thing disclosed is the suggestion that
S. Australia shall be bilked by the Com-
monwealth. “Obviously,” says the “S. M.
Herald,” “the proposal opens up the old
controversy over the covenant in the origi-
nal agreement with S. Australia to connect
Pt. Darwin with a railwajr to Pt. Augusta.”
And it adds these astounding sentences: —
But both developmental and strategic considera-
tions have altered that outlook since 1801 .... The
Commonwealth cannot stagnate in such old political
dogma, which is becoming more and more perilous
and no longer merely futile and expensive.
Have we lost all sense of decency and fair-
dealing? We enter into an agreement with
S. Australia under which we take over her
territory; then we refuse to pay the agreed-
upon price. And the “S. M. Herald”
applauds the dishonesty on the ground that
“development and strategic considerations
have altered”—just as the Persian Govern-
ment proposes to cancel the oil-concession
in which the British Government is inter-
ested because that concession no longer
suits the Shah’s book. If it offers terms
sufficiently attractive there is no reason
why the syndicate should not get its land
concessions; but the building of 50 lines
would not in the smallest degree affect S.
Australia’s right to have its line built —
unless, of course, that State consents to a
variation of the agreement.
•
The Prospects in South Aus.
A month ago S. Australia looked forward
to a record wheat harvest. The season
seemed to have been entirely favorable.
Then sudden doubts began to harass
the farmers in the middle-north. Red rust
—probably the result of a moderately wet
winter and an immoderately mild spring—
spread rapidly. Within three weeks crops
that had promised 25 bushels were written
down to 15; and, though a good average
harvest for the whole State is still possible,
the hope of a record has been abandoned.
No State has had such a succession of mis-
fortunes. After the crop failure in the
eastern States in 1927-28, N. S. Wales and
"Victoria enjoyed a recovery in 1928-29.
But S. Australia suffered another reverse,
with an average of only 7f bushels, and
recovered only when the bottom had fallen
out of the wheat market.
Yet, in the face of such an experience,
we are told that Australia must decide
between its primary and secondary indus-
tries—meaning, of course,'since the primary
or exporting industries cannot be aban-
doned, that the secondary industries must
be. Certainly the case calls for greater
consideration for the primary industries
than they have had hitherto; it calls, in
short, for an earnest effort to give the
primary industries some of the benefits of
that Protection under which our great
manufacturing industries have grown up.
(Even at the date of the last census, 1921,
Australia had 31.2 p.c. of its breadwinners
employed in these industries as against
25.8 p.c. employed in primary industries.)
The primary producer can be assured of
one thing: it will not be from the manu-
facturing industries that objection will come
to the farmers sharing in the benefits of
Protection. It will come rather from men
like those Federal Ministers who, though
they well know that the farmer must pay
for what he buys the higher prices of a
Protectionist regime, yet refuse him the
bounty which alone would enable him to
get a higher price for what he has to sell.
*
Persia Adopts the Lang Plan.
J. Bull has more trouble on his hands.
Holding, with our Mr. Lang, that the sanc-
tity of contracts is an “iniquitous” thing,
Persia has annulled the D’Arcy concession,
under which Anglo-Persian Oil holds its
rights in the country of the Shahs and of
Shahpur, the Crown Prince —the name seems
to be appropriate. An Australian, William
Knox D’Arcy, obtained the concession,
which gives the holder the exclusive right
to search for and deal with petroleum,
asphalt and ozokerite in 500,000 square
miles of Persian territory—five Caspian pro-
vinces are excluded —for 60 years from
May, 1901. Persian Oil acquired it in
1909. British Empire men found the oil,
the capital for mining, piping and refining
it, and the brains for those operations.
Persia has provided coolie labor and col-
lected royalties. These are (or were) de-
posited in London, and two years ago had
accumulated to £1,814,000. Persia owes
Britain about half a million more.
In announcing the annulment the rulers
of Persia said they did not consider them-
selves “obliged to recognise the validity
of a concession granted before Persia pos-
sessed constitutional government.” The
language is familiar. Russian influence is
strong in Persia, and the whole business
looks very like a Bolshevist blow at the
British Empire. The Royal Navy draws
most of its fuel supplies from Persia, and
the British Government is heavily inter-
ested in Persian Oil. Of 13.500,000 ordinary
shares of £1 each it holds 5.000,000. besides
8 p.c. preference shares and 5 p.c. deben-
ture stock; on the ords., since 1916, it
has received regular dividends—2o p.c. in
1919-’2O, ’2O-’2l and ’2l-’22 —representing
substantial contributions to the Exchequer.
The Australian Government, for its part,
is concerned with Anglo-Persian Oil through
the C.0.R., and is drawing dividends from
the enterprise, as well as being interested in
the maintenance of supplies for defensive
reasons.
The Persian Legation in London is said
to have admitted that Persia is importing
munitions and aeroplane engines from
America, and is about to grant automobile
and rubber monopolies to American inter-
ests. Persia belongs to the League of
Nations; the U.S.A., of course, doesn’t, nor
does Russia. The cancellation of the
D’Arcj' concession will probably be referred
to the League, but it is difficult to see what
that body can do, though it is sure to talk
a lot. It would seem that the very exist-
ence of the League encourages half-savage
countries to take liberties and commit out-
rages for which the stuffing would have been
knocked out of them in an earlier age. In
any case, this Persian affair is another
reminder to the loyal people of the British
Empire that they live in a changed world, a
world in which they have few friends; and
that. League or no League, it is neces-
sary for them to pull together and be pre-
pared.
Wages and Earnings.
Dear Bulletin, —You agree with Judge
Beehy, or he agrees with you, that it is
doubtful if, in these tunes, wages should be
fixed according to the cost of living
( B . 26/10/’32). As it is not likely that the
alternative in the learned Judge’s (and
your ) mind is' that wages should be above
the cost of living, this opens up grim possi-
bilities. It practically means that men must
work for less than it costs them to
live. As an old reader, I think I can re-
member the time when you said that if an
industry cannot pay fair wages it should go.
It seems to be a pretty good rule to stick to.
—Yours etc., H.P. {Vic.).
The Bulletin doesn’t say that it is
doubtful whether “in these times” wages
should be fixed according to the cost of
living. It says and has been saying for
more than 30 years that wages should not at
any time be fixed according to the cost of
living. To fix wages that way is all right
for a horse or a slave, but not for a free
man. He is entitled to what he earns, not
merely to what it costs to feed and clothe
him and keep a wife and child or two.
The “living wage” was philanthropic in its
origin. There were some workmen who by
reason of age or other disability could not
really earn as much as their fellows. The
“living wage” was designed to secure for
these people enough to live on. It was not
intended to apply to capable men: it was
assumed that, since they would earn more,
they would get more than the mere cost of
living. Then some people thought they saw
an easy way of seeming to win a great
victory for the men they were representing,
and the living wage, now called a basic
wage, was applied to fit and well men;
and since that time the chief object of most
industrial leaders in Australia has been, not
to help men to earn more and so get more,
but to more firmly establish a wage based
on the cost of living.
The result has been that during the past
25 years, in spite of the great improve-
ments made in machinery, etc., the workers
have improved their real position very
little, certainly not at the rate at which it
was improving before this basic-wage con-
fidence trick was put off upon them in
1907. The “Commonwealth Year-Book”
shows that, allowing for unemployment,
between 1901 and 1907 the real-wage average
rose 4.4 p.c. Between 1907 and 1929 it rose
only 2.3 p.c. So in the six years before the
first basic wage was fixed, real wages rose
nearly twice as much as they did in 22 years
after they were fixed. Indeed, the object
of the system is to keep real wages fixed.
Discoveries and improvements ought to
be putting more money into the pockets
of the workers. The basic-wage system
prevents it —it says man shall be paid, like
a horse, with what is necessary to keep him
fit and well.
♦
The Dangerous Indifference of Australia.
The exploitation of the public in connec-
tion with a non-existent Centralian gold-
field is only one of many happenings which
indicate the sapping of the national fibre.
The fruit-machine and tin-hare revelations
in N. S. Wales have hardly stirred a public
content to take such things as read. The
recent spoliation of the same State by a
gang of politicians who would now be
behind bars if they had their deserts
has been accepted with equal nonchalance.
Certainly, in this last case, some of the-
pirate politicians were thrown out by the
electors, but no attempt has been made to
bring the responsible instigators of this
political banditry to personal account.
The swindling company-promoter, the
shady crook who bribes corrupt Govern-
ments for illicit concessions, and the reci-
pients of his tainted largesse are permitted
to go about their business unpunished. If
this trend of popular indifference is to con-
tinue, Australia will soon have no sense of
political or financial honor left. The excuse
continually harped on is that it is impos-
sible for the Courts as constituted to con-
vict these offenders. The obvious reply is
that Parliament should enlarge the powers,
of the Courts, or, failing that, act as an
all-powerful Court itself.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DITBCtOTS*
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, 23.0.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
e
è
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
HARDY BROS. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE.
1!6 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The December rush in the Canberra and
Sydney Parliaments began earlier than
usual this year because of a cricket match.
In Sydney, as Assemblymen grumbled, things
were managed .so clumsily that they didn’t
knock off for the cricket, after sitting for l!)o
hours, till half-past six on the morning of
the match; and they had to go back this
week. The Canberra gentlemen contrived to
make one job of the adjournment for the
cricket and Christmas; with intervals for
refreshments, the House of Reps, kept going
from 10.30 a.m. on Wednesday till 6 p.m.
on Thursday, and the Senate from 3 p.m.
on Thursday till 7.40 p.m. on Friday. The
country pays dearly for this idiotic way of
.doing its business.
Mark Sheldon, who knows as much about
finance as most men, is in London, trying
to find out what would happen to a big Aus-
tralian conversion loan. He isn’t optimistic.
“Although,” he says, “there is the utmost
goodwill towards Australia, influential people
are asking why Australia does .not obtain
relief for herself by adjustment of the
exchange.” They point out that the most
Australia could hope to save by a conver-
sion is £1,500,000 a year, while “the adverse
exchange on debt services here costs approxi-
mately £8,000,000 annually. There is a
strong feeling,” Mark adds, “that this
should be Australia’s first line of attack in
adjusting the debt situation.” Which simply
bears out what The Bulletin has been
urging for two years—that the country that
plays with the exchange rate is inviting all
kinds of trouble.
Tas. Assembly has been asked to revert
from six-member to single-member elec-
torates. Some Ministers supported the pro-
posal, w'hich, of course, meant the dropping
of proportional representation, but the House
turned it down. Reduction of members of
both Houses by about one-third also went
down with a thud. The Labor Opposition,
led by Ogilvie, advised Ministers to abolish
the Uppish House, contending that a single
House of 30 members was big enough for
the public to , see, and shoot at. Ministers
icily declined to take the advice. They re-
membered the performances of Ogilvie’s idol,
Lang.
Premier A rgyle has infuriated Vic. motor-
ists by proposing to raid the Country Roads
Board cashbox for another £56,000. Earlier in
the year £150,000 was taken from the board’s
funds, and a £50,000 appropriation from con-
solidated revenue is to be suspended.
Vehicle owners protest that they are taxed
enough already and that they will have to
pay twice over in depreciation through driv-
ing over bad roads. Argyle says he hates
doing it but he has no option. Like N. S.
Wales, Victoria has a lot of expensive speed-
ways competing with the State-owned rail-
ways. The fine Melbourne-Geelong high-
way is a conspicuous example.
“Our position under the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment is hopeless, and the only means of correcting
it is secession.”— Westralian. Premier Mitchell.
“Leaving the house, are you, you hussy ?
And I’d like to know what you are
going to do about the twinsf”
“You keep them!”
As one of its measures of economy, the
Queensland Labor Government is establish-
ing a Bureau of Industry, with 15 members.
When the bill was introduced Moore moved
that representation should be given to Cham-
bers of Manufactures and Commerce, local
authorities and the grazing and agricultural
interests, but the amendment was negatived.
How like a “Tory” to want to restrict the
opportunities of “comrades” !
The provision of hospital finance is one of
those things they do better in Maoriland.
There is a Government subsidy, but a third
of the cost is obtained from local rates and
over 20 p.c. is recovered from patients.
Voluntary contributions are not depended
upon; they rarely exceed 2 p.c. . Administra-
tion of charitable aid is included in the
duties of hospital boards, and in normal
times accounts for about £250,000 out of an
annual expenditure of close on £2,000,000.
Hospital boards have no rating powers; the
local authorities in each board district pro-
THE (NOT SO VERY ) ANCIENT MARINER.
“To wreak petty vengeance on a man who has admitted that he defrayed the expenses of election
advertising incurred by Labor, Mr. Stevens has decided to suppress greyhound racing.”— Mr. Lang’s
newspaper.
They say I've done a hellish thing,
And it mil work 'em woe;
For all declare I have killed the hare
That brought ’em stacks of dough.
Ah wretch! hiss they, the hare to slay
That brought us all that dough!
Ah, spare me days! what evil looks
I get from old and young!
And, for my sin, a hare of tin
Around my neck they’ve hung.
vide a set percentage of estimated expendi-
ture. Checks on extravagance are the close
supervision of the Health Department and
the tendency of local bodies to bellow like
bulls of Bashan if the management isn’t
demonstrably economical.
The Leichhardt (N.S.W.) branch of the
U.A.P. wanted to run A. N. Campbell, a
local engineer and alderman, for the
Assembly by-election, but the central execu-
tive vetoed the nomination. It had nothing
against Campbell, who polled well at the
general election; the trouble was moral
cowardice, the bane of the National Federa-
tion. The idea is that the 6,000-odd U.A.P.
people in Leichhardt should throw their
votes to the Federal' Labor candidate—-who,
like the representative of the other Labor
faction, is for “the nationalisation of banking
and credit,” i.e., control of all bank funds
by politicians. Such tactics are the last
word in drivelling folly.
The Lyons Government has done so much
yielding lately, especially on the issue of
pensions, that Parliament was astonished
when it turned stubborn. This it did when
the Cockies asked that the £2,000,000 for
wheatgrowers should be paid as a bounty.
The Government said it would give the State
Governments the money and let them distri-
bute it in any other way or ways, but a
bounty it forbade. “Why,” it protested, “20
per cent, of the farmers collected 55 per
cent, of this year’s bounty.” But even if
they did they were- only getting a bit. of
what was promised them, with such lament-
able results, in 1930. The more wheat a
man grew that year the worse he fared;
according to Nock, the Riverina man, the
Westraliari Liebe harvested 100,000 bags and
lost 4s. a bag. “You will be subsidising in-
efficiency,” shouted a Cocky; but the city
chaps on the Treasury benches were un-
moved. Rather than risk losing the
£2,000,000 and the concessions to taxpayers
embodied in the Financial Relief Bill, Nock
and other Agrarians let the city chaps have
their way; and the Government reeled into
recess.
Among Queensland industries that will be
hit by the return to the 44-hour week is
sugar production. Growers wouldn’t object to
it if wages were reduced correspondingly, but
this is not likely to happen. Moreover, they
realise that they will have to reckon Avith
continued pressure from other States for
a further reduction in prices. The Sugar
Agreement Bill was piloted through the
Senate, but every clause of it was fought
by the Westralians and the Tasmanians, and
there is no reason to suppose that they will
take the passage of the bill as settling the
matter. Colebatch even tried to get the
embargo on sugar imports removed. But
this was too much, and the proposal was
flattened out by 2 to 1.
Lang can say what he likes about oppo-
nents as long as ho says it in Parliament
and doesn’t fall foul of the man in the
chair (he did the other day) ; but
Ids newspaper is in no such happy posi-
tion. So it has apologised profusely to three
directors of Associated Newspapers for libels
published before the election at which the
Boss got what was coming to him, and
has been ordered to pay £lOO each to Speaker
Levy and the secretary of the Railway Ser-
vice Association—in each case with costs.
It is reported that Lang will have to settle
these expensive accounts; if so, it is strange
that he should be threatening to bring out a
Sunday issue of the paper and “establish
a ‘Labor Daily’ in every capital.” Perhaps
he sees a vision of a continent encircled with
newspapers nourished by “the poor man’s
sport,” though the tin-hare industry is some-
what depressed.
McNicoll, the member for Werriwa, made
out an unanswerable case in the Reps, for
the underpaid oflicers and men of the R.A.N.
The position is that ah A. 8., unmarried,
gets £1 19s. Bd. a wefek, with a ration allow-
ance recently raised to 10s. a week. If
he can save enough to marry* and furnish a
house on his £1 19s. Bd. a wfeek, he is allowed
another 11s. Bd.; if the union is fruitful he
draws an additional ss. 3d. per child—until
the other day it was only 3s. 6d. After! 22
years’ service he has to retire at 40 on his
deferred pay—£2s 17s. Id. p.a., plus interest.
A lieutenant with nine years’ service draws
£264 i3s. 6d. p.a.; a lieut.-commander (17
to 26 years), £431 18s. 4d. to £491 4s. 7d.
p.a. There is no marriage allowance for
officers, and they have to retire at 45 on
their deferred pay. Officers and men are
expected to keep fit, to represent tne country
worthily (as they do) at home and abroad,
and to be ready at all times to shed their
blood for it. The politicians ought to be
just to them, if they can’t be generous.
Someone has revived the grandiose plan
for damming the Yarra at Rudder Grange,
and forming an immense lake stretching
back five miles to Templestowe. The lake
would submerge several roads, a bridge or
two, dozens of farms, a railway and a
couple of important golf courses, as well as
scores of potential cricket and football
grounds and some of the loveliest river
valley flats imaginable, through which the
stream now meanders in all its natural
beauty. Twenty-eight years ago the cost
was estimated at £200,000. To-day i<
would be at least half a million. The sum
would be better expended in demolishing
some of the city’s truly awful slums.
The Dutch are not to get the contract for
the England-Australia air mail service.
Imperial Airways will work the London-Sin-
gapore route; the Singapore-Darwin section
is to be reserved for Australian cos. and
British concerns registered in Australia. The:
new arrangement will necessitate the re-
vision of existing internal air routes, and
the cessation of the Perth-Adelaide service,
but it is calculated that before the Australia-
England mails are flying existing contracts
will have expired.
Under the late N.S.W. “Labor” Govern-
ment the elderly person who lets houses,
being past work, was regarded as almost a
criminal. He was forbidden to turn out a
tenant who couldn’t or wouldn’t come to light
with the rent, was compelled to pay all rates
and taxes, and, if broke, was refused the dole.
Scores of cases cropped up in which the
“landlord” was worse off than his tenant, but,
being a “landlord,” it was regarded as good
enough for him. The present Government
has discovered that the Chief Secretary’s
department has been distributing £70,000 a
year to “persons in necessitous circum-
stances, ostensibly for rent,” and that most
of the persons in necessitous circumstances
have been sticking to the money. This
swindle —one of a multitude being worked
on the taxpayers in the name of “humani-
tarianism” —is to be and the claims
of victims of the no-rent campaign are
now to be considered.
Lamarp, Lang’s is stand-
ing for Leichhardt. “S. M. Herald” reports
him as saying that “if the oversea payments
had been suspended by the Scullin Govern-
ment, and the goods standard adopted; as
advocated by Mr. Lang, the depression would
have passed.” The young gentleman assumes
that the country victimised by the “suspen-
sion” of “the overseas payments” would have
gone on buying nearly half our exports,
measured in pounds sterling, as if nothing
had happened'; but is nonsense.
Apart from other obvious and unpleasant
consequences, boycott is the natural reply
to repudiation, however disguised, and by
whomsoever practised. The U.S.A. has
bought little from Russia since it was Lenin-
planned in 191 S; neither has it lent the
Red Republic a copper nor “recognised” it.
It is just as well for young Mr. Lamaro
that his family settled in a British com-
munity and not in some Italian colony. A
Tripolitan Lamaro who proposed to Lang-
plan Italian subscribers 10 Tripoli loans
would have a dreadful time taking his
Fascist medicine.
Argyle would feel a lot easier if the state
of parties had remained as it was immedi-
ately after the general election. Then
the TJ.A.P. had a majority of its own —-a
small one, certainly, but. still a majority.
The. tally now is: U.A.P., 31 (including
Speacock) ; Cockies, 15; Labor, 16; Ind.
Labor (Hogan and Bond), 2, and Jimmy
McLachlan. Not since Lawson suffered his
reverse in 1920 has any Victorian party
been able to rule as a party.
One of the difficulties in the wholesale
peace business is the time-factor. For
example, while the Lytton report is still sub
judice, so to speak, the Japanese and Chinese
are having another smack at one another in
CHINA: “My people insist on their inalien-
able right to be killed by their fellow-
countrymen.”
JAPAN : “And my people insist on their
inalienable right to prevent your fel-
low-countrymen killing them.”
Manchuria. Even if something comes of
their • deliberations, the League delegates,
having adopted legal procedure, take so long-
over it that before they have come to a deci-
sion on one situation another has arisen.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Farleigh”: A two-up school strikes few
people as an outsize form of crime or even
misdemeanor, and yet it is amazing to what
lengths a zealous police force will go to nab
participants in this forbidden pastime. Near
Adelaide the other day a trap that had been
in preparation for weeks was successfully
sprung:—
A hole, 6ft. by 4ft. in, size, with a 2ft. entrance,
had been dug in the bank of the Torrens. _At
4.45 on Sunday morning two constables climbed into
the dug-out, and two others covered the entrance
with grass.
As the players didn’t collect until well into
the afternoon, the limbs of the law had to
[?] ADAME CHOSE THE WRONG SHOP.
INFERIOR SHOPPER: “I’m looking for a skirt, and I want a match
for this blouse!”
SUPERIOR SALESLADY: “Madame, I presume, wants to burn it!"
lie perdu for 10 hours in their sweltering
lair. Their troubles were accentuated by a
cow eating most of the grass designed
screen their retreat, and by a horse almost
blundering through the ceiling. But they
gritted their teeth and carried on till the
time came to hurl themselves out of ambush
upon their prey, whose line of flight had
meanwhile been blocked by another 16 police-
men. Result, 17 arrests and a lot of
trumpery prosecutions under the Gaming
Act. With all that strategy it looks as if
it might be possible to catch a few first-
class burglars.
' i\i v
“Jungor”: The methods of those who
pursue family vendettas, whether in the
turbulent Balkans or Sicily or Kentucky,
don’t seem to differ much, and the Austra-
lian native is perhaps the oldest and most
determined feudist of all. Up in Westralia s
far north, a missionary killed an abo., and
was acquitted on the ground that he had
acted in self-defence. But that didn’t finish
it. The dead man’s tribesmen decided that
someone must suffer, if the slayer didn’t;
apparently anyone connected with the mis-
sion would fill the bill. So they lured a
mission gin away and filled her with spears,
performing other grisly ceremonies doubt-
less handed down for countless centuries.
It was many months before the Law ran
them down, but last week four of the
avengers of blood in this roundabout way
were sentenced to death at Wyndham for
wilful murder. For the defence it was
pointed out that the killers were wild bush
natives, who had had little or no inter-
course with whites, and that what was a
crime by the white man’s law was merely
a duty to them. Of course they won’t: be
hanged, but liow to deal with these tribal
killings remains as knotty a problem as
ever.
;t; ❖ ❖
“Pawang” : The search for a serum which
will act as a universal antidote for that
curse of humanity hay fever has
its vicissitudes. Since the
serum treatment was first de-
vised research has revealed that
almost anything can be an ex-
citing cause of the distressing
malady. Mattresses stuffed with
kapok, horse dander, flowering
grasses, cottage gardens and the
effluent of vacuum-cleaners have
all been tried and found guilty.
One of Melbourne’s leading polo-
players had to give up the game
because he was seized with
violent paroxysms of sneezing
whenever he approached horse-
flesh, and I know of a suburban-
ite who, on visiting a hay-fever
specialist and submitting to the
reaction tests, learnt that his
favorite flower, a dahlia, which
his fond wife pinned on his lapel
every morning, was his natural
enemy. But perhaps the queer-
est case is that of Pambo, who
collects reptiles for the Walter
and Eliza Hall Institute. He
used to have ferocious attacks
of asthma when on snake-hunt-
ing expeditions and the trouble
was traced to a protein con-
tained in the skins of the ser-
pents. An extract was made and injected
into Pambo, and it has apparently cured him.
‘“D.D.”: The mystery about that unoccu-
pied house at Watson’s Bay, Sydney (B.
30/11/’32), seems to be mainly of “Bloggs’s ’
making. The house was built about seven
years ago for a sanatorium and was occu-
pied for a couple of years. Part of the land
was sold to help pay for the rest; neverthe-
less the weight of the fourth or fifth mortgage
caused the roof to sag, so the builder hoisted
Lang’s moratorium umbrella and walked out
into the rain. How the second, third and
fourth mortgagees are going to get their
money back after satisfying the first, mort-
gagee is the only mystery connected with the
house.
“L ig h t Horse-
man” : It is diffi-
cult to understand
why W. M. Hughes
should have been
given the honor t>f
unveiling the statu-
ary group raised to
the memory of the
Australian an d
ALL. Light Horse-
men. While he
sedulously cu 11 i-
vated the men on
the Western Front,
Hughes evinced no
particular interest
in the campaign on
the other flank.
The man who
should have un-
veiled the mem-
orial, which also
carries panels com-
memorating the
Camel Corps and
Air Force, is Gen-
eral Chauvel, the
successful leader of
the greatest cav-
alry force in lds-
tory. When the
Scullin Govern-
ment retired this
distinguished sol-
dier, it graciously
allowed him the
free use of any
horse at Melbourne
Victoria Barracks
whenever he felt
like a ride. Scul-
-1 i n ’ s successors
might well have
given him a return
passage to Egypt
to complete the
last chapter of the
Sinai - Palestine
story. The mem-
orial, by the way,
is out of place at
Port Said. 1
should have been
erected at Kantara,
where the Anzac Mounted Division hrst rode
into Sinai over the pontoon bridge across the
Canal.
$ * * t.
“Lao-dah” : Reported that a Sydney Woman
has asked the Museum authorities to iden-
tify the inscription on an emblem which
a Benalla Turk told her he would not have
in his possession for all the hashish in
existence. The owner said that the previous
possessor, a sister-in-law, was killed, along
with her daughter, during a. German air
raid on Folkestone in 1917 and the charm
was found near her body. She herself has
suffered from the cm'se, inasmuch' as she
invested in a poultry-farm which failed. If
would be interesting To have statistics of the
effect on their wearers of the brooches with
Chinese. characters on them affected by
womaukind. There are three popular vari-
eties. One is the character for wealth or
good fortune, another for long life and the
third for fertility. The lastnamed I saw
recently adorning the throat of a damsel
who has contracted a companionate marriage.
* * * *
“Jeames”: The King’s expressed desire
“that the officers of his regiments shall
wear moustaches” is going to cause revolu-
tionary changes. It is still nominally com-
pulsory for military officers to leave their
upper lips unshaved (see King’s Regs.). The
war suspended the convention. Ever since,
London’s best-dressed young men, who are
indisputably the junior members of the Guards
Club, have clean-shaved. The minute they
begin to grow moustaches the Stock
Exchange, Lloyd’s and the city generally, the
lower branch of the legal profession and
many doctors, dentists, architects, artists
and others will follow suit. Shortly after-
wards moustaches will begin to bourgeon
A MATTER OF DESCRIPTIVE CAPACITY.
“You don’t call yourself as good a fisherman as Jones, do you?”
“’Course not Look at the arms he’s got.”
boneatli the noses of clerks of all grades and
shop-assistants. In Continental countries —
Germany and France, for example—members
of the middle classes have never followed
the fashions set hy the officers of crack
regiments. The different sections, such as
lawyers, artists and commercial men, are
compartmented ; you can usually recognise a
member of of them by liis clothes and
general appearance. Not so in England,
where every man is a masquerader at heart.
“Punch” published a drawing half a century
or more ago showing an overdressed little
cad, with a few hairs decorating his upper
lip, agitatedly beseeching a friend to conceal
him. from a rioting mob. “If they see me
they’ll think I’m a bloated haristocrat.”
There- have been speculations, by the way,
as to what the Prince will do. Being
“soldier and sailor, too,” he will probably
remain clean-shaven, but, in any event, it
won’t matter. No male royalty from the
Regent’s day (when Brummel set the
fashions for males) , and on through the Vic-
torian, Edwardian and Georgian eras, when
all attempts to make beards fashionable failed,
has had much sartorial influence on London.
The West End looks with disfavor on the
Prince’s flamboyant berets, straws, kaleido-
scope sweaters and American golfing shoes
and can’t be prevailed on to adopt them. It
is the Guards subalterns, whose tastes in
clothes are much more sober, who give the
lead to Mayfair, and through Mayfair _ to
the suburbs, the provinces and the Empire.
i * * *
“Pawang”: There was a show in Mel-
bourne the other night from which the public
was rigidly excluded. It was a display of
deadly germs, including diphtheric and
typhoid bacteria, in corked test-tubes, and
was the work of the Bacteriological Depart-
ment of the University. Only members of
the Uni. Council, the faculties of science and
medicine and members of the B.M.A. were
permitted to enter and survey the living
dynamite. Possibly the authorities feared
some misguided crank would purloin a few
million germs and empty them into the city’s
water supply. Even if such a happening did
not actually occur, the presence of the
public would have inevitably led to terrify-
ing rumors. Some 25 years ago a story got
around Sydney that a leper at the Long
Bay Hospital, in fishing off the rocks, had
hurled his arm into the water along with
the hook, line and sinker, and thousands of
Sydneyites refrained from eating fish for a
long time afterwards. The yarn emanated
from the fertile brain of an operator at the
La Perouse cable station.
“Mako” : War sensations are not the only
ones that are apt to return periodically. I
met in M.L. an Australian who had been
bitten by a snake in Victoria as a boy of 10,
and he declared it was nearly 20 years before
the effect of the experience failed to recur
in the spring. After that the poison appa-
rently had worked out of his system, for he
suffered no further.
“Jeames”: From a “S. M. .Herald”
talkie notice: —
This background of quaint oak beams and com-
fortable, old-fashioned furniture, so typical of an
English country hotel, conies as a pleasant change
after so much smart up-to-date American interior
decoration.
But. all the “quaint oak beams” and “old
fashioned furniture” that one sees in English
hotels represent smart up-to-date interior
decoration of a poisonous description. They
are vulgar fakes. “Punch” and other pub-
lications which speak for literate England
have been hooting with laughter at them. for
years. Speculators are jerry-building Eng-
lish road-houses now, in imitation of those
of the U.S.A., with parlors and “taps” that:
resemble the sixteenth-century retiring-rooms
of Middle West cinemas; the chief difference
is that one could smash the “oak beams”
and “old-fashioned furniture” of the Eng-
lish hostelries to fragments with a few good
hard knocks. The fake interiors of England’s
country pubs are bad enough, but the limit
was achieved recently by a London hotel
with an immense bar-trade opposite the
western end of the Law Courts. Built a
quarter of a century ago it functioned as an
ordinary drinking-place of the period till a
new lessee was inspired to put an eighteenth-
century facade on.it. And there the horror
stands, with its William and Mary out-
side and its George and Mary inside, a
standing warning against archaism in archi-
tecture.
“Binduli” : The same old defence is regu-
larly trotted out in libel actions arising
out of election propaganda. The aggrieved
person was called a knave (or whatever he
may have been called) as >a politician ; there
was no stigma intended or cast on his
personal character. Sometimes it works, and
things are smoothed over; but not always.
Over 20 years ago a Westralian goldfields
newspaper poured a raking broadside into
three members of the State Parliament under
the caption of “Three Rotten Sticks.” Three
writs arrived, and it pleaded that the
plaintiffs had been held up -to public
reprobation only in the political (or Pick-
wickian) sense. But the jury decided that
the article was calculated to harm them in
their capacity as private' citizens as well,
and awarded the alleged “rotten sticks”
thumping damages.
“Entente” : Une curious aftermath of the
Great War is the establishment of a British
colony in France —the people employed by
the War Graves Commission. Many of the
Single men have married French women
and the result is a crop of bi-lingual childreu.
Nothing, perhaps, could better illustrate the
capture of the country by these settlements
than a sign the winter noted in a magazine
photo, of one French village street. There
are some 50 Britons in this village and the
sign reads “Tea —Just Like Mother Made
It.” To the French in the mass tea is as
much a mystery as Scotch whisky, but they
are evidently learning.
“F.S.”: The mutilation of statuary in
public gardens is a popular pastime in Mel-
bourne, as the mournful remains in the Fitz-
roy Gardens testify. In the same pleasaunce
Miss Ola Cohn has been engaged for • the
past two years in carving figures on a dead
tree and as fast as she adds one detail another
gets carried away by vandals. Reverence
for art does not seem to be a British
characteristic. A Victorian artist just
returned from Europe found that the people
who walked in front of his easel were
usually Englishmen; Italians, Frenchmen
and Spaniards invariably kept out of the
way. The Australian painter who sets up
his canvas in the open air in this country
immediately attracts a crowd and frequently
lias to listen to unflattering comments. The
fact that Australian concert-goers are very
much better behaved than European audi-
ences does not affect the generalisation.
European audiences are the victims of their
own enthusiasm for music, and they don’t
scruple to show disapproval of what dis-
pleases them. The reverence of Australian
audiences is not towards the music, but
towards the foreign celebrity who is play-
ing it. The lack of respect for art, I think,
is to be traced to the schools, where a purely
conventional awe for the artist is taught,
alongside a very lively adoration of the
athlete.
THE QUESTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The question is not whether Britain can afford
to pay America, but whether America can afford to
receive payment.”— “Times.”
“You are hard, Uncle Hoover,” old John
Bull said,
“And I have to admit I regret it.
But don’t be afraid your account won’t be
paid:
However it pinch me, you’ll get it.
“You have half the world’s gold socked away
in your store,
Though there seems scant advantage be-
hind it;
And, while I deplore your insistence for
more,
If you say you must have it, I’ll find it.
“You’ve a pull, Uncle Hoover, no end of a
pull
Over me that might set you reflecting.
Though my pockets are full of p.n.’s, too,”
said Bull,
“I haven’t a hope of collecting.
“Still, to honor my bond has been always my
way,
My fixed and inveterate habit.
It’ll hurt me to pay, Uncle Hoover, but, say,
Do you think it will help you to grab it?
“With the world on its uppers and trade in
a hole
And commerce and currencies rocking,
Have you no twinge of soul when you levy
a toll
On a kinsman’s attenuate stocking?
“You are tough, Uncle Hoover,” old J.B.
said,
“And you scorn to let sentiment sway
you.
But if you, when all’s weighed, can afford to
be paid,
Be sure I can manage to pay you.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


"The Missus”: Will somebody please
tell me how I stand? My husband is a
cricketer. If an opponent who should be'
bowling at the wicket bowls instead at him,
and does him an. injury, has lie grounds
, for an action for damages? A man helping
another to load bricks tosses the bricks to
him. If, by way of variation, he tosses
a brick at, him, with the intention, let us
say. of frightening him, and strikes him,
killing him, is it manslaughter? If
so—and there seems very little doubt about
that —what would be the position of a
bowler who, instead of aiming at the
wicket, aimed at the batsman, with the
intention of frightening him? And, if the
ball came short of causing death, but did
actual bodily harm, what would the position
be then? It seems to me that this new
cricket ought to be very interesting to law-
yers. *
“Oxmead”: Governor Hore-Ruthvcn,
speaking at a St. Andrew’s dinner in Adel-
aide, congratulated S. Aus. on having an
enormous number of Scotsmen to stiffen the
national character, and went on the stress the
part played by his countrymen in the
development of the British Empire:—
Of Britain’s Prime Ministers during' the last 60
years, only Lord Salisbury and Baldwin were English.
Lloyd George was a Welshman and Disraeli a Jew.
The other seven—Gladstone, Rosebery, Balfour,
Campbell-Bannerman, Bonar Law, Asquith and Ram-
say MacDonald were all Scotsmen.
No one Avould grudge Scotland her pre-
eminence, in this regard or any other, but
Asquith was a Yorksliireman. And England
was Disraeli’s native country, the Jews hav-
ing none of their own at that period.
* * * *
“Whitehall”: Warner’s remarks in dis-
praise of barracking had one salutary effect.
They sent the newspapers in search of the
humorists of the S.G.G. hill, and thereby
showed them up as the dull dogs most of
THE HOMING BIRDS.
LANDLADY: "What does ‘MSS.’ on all the letters you receive mean, Mr. Banks?”
MR. BANKS: “Oh, that’s short for ‘missed.’”
them are. A “Herald” reporter did his best
during the England-N.S.W. match, and these
were the brightest gems he could dig up:—
While Fingleton was batting there appeared on
the scoring board the notice “Wanted at members’
stand.” “I hope it’s not me they want,” cried
half a dozen voices on the hill. The crowd was
keyed up, and was in a merry mood.
“How’s that?” It looked for the moment as
though it was the end of McCabe’s innings. “Tut-
tut,” yelled the crowd on the hill, amid roars of
laughter.
The “Sunday Sun” engaged one Yabba,
described as “the famous barracker,” to
write his impressions, and he weighed in
with dreary rubbish like this:—
As the Indian walked in to bat somebody sung out
“Here he comes, Yab ; an old friend that wishes to meet
yer.” I stood up on me feet, and shouted, “Salaam
Sahib, boratch.”
As I came in, the mob sung out, “ ’Ow’s the
wireless?” That got me stone mad. I’m not on
the wireless. I only talk on the hill.
When I was a boy London cabbies were
supposed to be heaven-sent wits, but I
never heard one do any better than “Garn,
can yer spare it?” (to a stingy fare) or
“Get yer fice fried!” (to a hostile ’bus-
driver). The same with Dublin’s jarveys.
In three visits tq Dublin I never heard a
jarvey make a joke capable of getting a
laugh outside the junior ranks of a boys’
school. Barracking, like all mass humor,
is the crude abusive stuff that appeals to the
mentally young. Give any cheeky little boy
of nine or ten the run of the hill and a fog-
horn voice and he would have Yabba (and
his kind) boiling with jealousy, and the
other onlookers boiling with irritation, inside
half an hour.
“Thormanby”: Referring to the presence
of an ecclesiastic in a barber’s chair (B.
23/11/’32) “H.C.W.” notes that he was not
wearing the all-round clerical dog-collar so
universal with the <Cloth to-day. When did
this originate? The earliest illustrations
I can recall of the clergy—after the passing
of wig, gown and bands —show them wear-
ing white neckties; vide the drawings in
“Pickwick” and “Bleak House” of Stiggins
and Chadband. One of my grandfathers
was a Yorkshire rector who was ordained
a hundred years ago. A portrait of him at
that time shows him in a high black stock
with a white pointed collar. A photograph
taken in the ’sixties reveals his garb as a
tweed morning coat with an open collar
and a blue bird’s-eye necktie tied in a bow !
When I first saw him late in the .’eighties
he was clad in the customary suit of solemn
black with the dog-collar. I never mustered
up courage to ask him how the change had
come about.
“Centurion” : Members of the P. 8.1. will
welcome the decision of the British War
Office to adopt a new double pack, the lower
half of which is to be detachable and will be
left behind when going into action. The
idea is that with a smaller load
the soldier will be more active,
while at the same time he will
still have his mess-tin, rations
and other necessaries, these
being carried in the upper half
of the contraption. The pack
is probably the greatest afflic-
tion an infantryman has to
bear, and. many is ,the= gibe he
has flung at the mounted sol-
dier for his immunity from
humping heavy loads. There is
a catch in it, however. Once
off the route, the footslogger
can shed his pack, and apart
from minor duties and fatigues,
which affect only a few, can
turn to his own affairs. The
mounted man in the same case
has to water, feed, groom and
generally see to the well-being
of his steed before he can dream
of attending to his own wants.
* * *
“X.S.” : For the second time
in three months a murder case
in Melbourne has ended in a
charge of bigamy. A farmer,
charged with the murder of his
mother, stood liis trial three
times, the first two juries fail-
ing to agree and the third find-
ing in his favor. After his final
trial the acquitted man was
arrested and charged with hav-
ing gone through the form of
marriage with a woman in 1930, his wife
being then living.
“C.Q.” : The only person I noticed getting
real instinctive enjoyment out of the manne-
quin parade which passes for the gala spirit
of Henley-on-the-Yarra was an old-age pen-
sioner, a well-known Melbourne identity.
He wore a special kind of hat with a flat
top and a curled 'brim, and there was a
platform arrangement sewn to one of his
boots. All the afternoon he spun a top
with uncommon dexterity, tossed it on to
his hat, made it gyrate round the brim,
dropped it on to his foot and played other
subtle tricks with it, with a smile of
delighted artistry on his face and an inter-
ested crowd around him. He rejected all
payment. I leamt that the old chap walks
from St. Kilda-road to Melbourne and back
every day exercising his talent.
“Craiser”: The worst victim of the sou-
venir mania I have seen for a long time was
a military cadet at the Henley fireworks
display. The spirit of carnival had appa-
rently made him oblivious of consequences
and a trio of damsels he had picked up had
stripped him of his shoulder-straps, badges
and even buttons.
❖ >!: sjs :J:
"Deekay”: One of the newsreels at the
pictures showed the tumultuous reception
accorded to “Signor Grandi, the handsome
big diplomat, envoy of II Duce,” on his
recent visit to New York. A young couple,
apparently honeymooners from the country,
were sitting directly behind me. “Who is
he, dear?” she asked. “The cove that’s
causing the trouble in India,i” she was
informed.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: The reason why members of
the intelligentsia were nabbed in the recent
Melbourne Communist demonstration (B.
16/11/’32) was not so much that they had
less nimble feet than their proletarian com-
rades but that they were better known. One,
a Collins-street doctor, has made no secret of
his political affiliations, much to the horror
of his colleagues, who. despite the fact that
many of them have had their training in
Europe, share the average Australian pro-
fessional man’s dread of being regarded as
a radical. In Europe the boot is on the
other foot; the conservative professional
man is the exception. Scratch a French or
German scientist or philosopher and you
are quite likely to find a Socialist or Com-
munist and in the universities it is some-
thing of a reproach to be a Tory. - One
reason is that in Europe the professional
classes are economically in as bad a posi-
tion as the worker; here they are in clover,
comparatively speaking.
=i= • * * *
“C.Q.”: The opening of the section of
the Great Ocean Road between Lome (Vic.)
and Apollo Bay marks the completion of
another Digger memorial. The highway
winds round precipitous cliffs, descending to
the Southern Ocean, and was started not
only to commemorate the Peace, but also
to provide employment for returned soldiers.
The money was obtained by public subscrip-
CAUTION.
H IM: “D’you know you very nearly interrupted your husband last night just as he
was going off with that friend of yours.”
HER: “Yes, a girl’s got to keep her eyes open these days or she sees far too much.”
tion, and one of the inducements was that
subscribers of ten pounds would have bends
in the road named after them. As the name-
plates are set up at points where navigation
is both difficult and dangerous, wise motor-
ists don’t pay much attention to the identity
of their benefactors. It would have been
better to have set up boards at the beginning
and end of the highway.
,
“Strict Veg.”: Sincere expression of
emotion is more often to be found in the
In Memoriam section of the “Argus” than
in the verse by minor poets which that
journal occasionally prints elsewhere. A
specimen from a recent issue
Her life was all love and labor;
Her heart for her family beat true;
She always did her duty—
What else could poor Muni do ?
“Park Lane” : England’s deter-
mination not to repudiate is
pauperising the landed classes.
Some signs are the closing down
of town and country houses and
clubs. As Viscount Lascelles,
Princess Mary’s husband, was a
multi-millionaire he could easily
keep up Chesterfield House. In
the past two years taxation is
said to have diminished his in-
come by more than 50 p.c., and
Chesterfield House is empty.
When the boom was on 11. D.
Mclntosh could use Broome Park,
near Canterbury, as a week-end
cottage. It is only a couple of
hours from London, and it has
every imaginable amenity, includ-
ing first-class tennis-courts and a
private cricket-ground and nine-
hole golf course. A millionaire
jumped at it when Mclntosh
got out; now the millionaire’s
income has slumped, and the
beautiful place is to let and likely
to remain so. The “Daily Mail'
mentioned recently that “four
historic seats and 22 minor coun-
try houses in Kent alone are
without tenants.” The Cocoa
Tree in St. James’s-street is the
latest historic club to close down.
Like Arthur’s, a few yards
further up the street, it depended
for members chiefly on the squire-
archy. The building is nearly 21-
centuries old (White’s, establish-
ed in the seventeenth century,
was its only senior), yet, despite
its antiquity, which counts for so
much in Britain, it has been un-
able to stand up to Uncle Sam’s
demands. Sam is going to cost
the old country a lot more in
pride and beauty—to make no
mention of jobs—before he is finished.
* * * #
“Nakh”: The cancellation of the D’Arcy
oil concession by the Government of Persia
links that country up with Australia. Wil-
liam Knox D’Arcy was a lawyer in Queens-
land with a small practice when a man
walked into his office with a hunk of gold
quartz and said he had a mountain of it on
his farm. D’Arcy helped him to float a
mining company and became a millionaire.
Looking for new spheres of conquest D’Arcy
decided to go into the oil business, and,
learning that in Persia you could squeeze
oil out of a sod with your hand, he sent a
geologist to inspect. Thus was discovered
one of the world’s richest oilfields. A
poverty-stricken peasantry was living on a
lake of it. In 1901 the Shah granted D’Arcy
the exclusive right to exploit petroleum,
natural gas and asphalt deposits, but before
lie had got his bores completed and his pipe-
lines sunk, D’Arcy's Australian fortune was
sadly diminished. He enlisted the aid of Brit-
ish oil interests, Anglo-Persian was formed
and in 1914 the British Government acquired
a controlling interest in the company. After
that the affair entered the realms of inter-
national drama. Russia and Britain fought
each other diplomatically for the monopoly,
while the Persian nationalists, who had
forced a Constitution on the Shah, tried to
transfer the concession to the U.S.A. During
the war the British Government arrived at
an agreement with the Czar, but the Bolshevik
revolution upset it. The tight still goes on,
and it looks as if the Soviet has got a fresh
leg in.
“M.G.S.”: Archbishop Julius, of Maori-
land, has been deploring the sentimental ten-
dency of modern hymns; he says that they
are too flabby to hurt a flea, and considers
that a dash of damnatory thunder from tin-
•Psalms would make them more persuasive.
Still, I don’t think the times are congenial
for a revival of the methods of the old evan-
gelists, of whom a conspicuous example was
the Rev. Furniss —very appropriately named.
In one of his published sermons occurs this
passage: “Do you hear that sound of
bubbling? It is the boiling of the. blood in
the veins of unbaptised little children, who
have gone to the eternal bonfire. Do you
hear that sound of crackling? It is the
bursting of the joints of the same little chil-
dren, etc., etc.” These sentiments were
applauded as those of a humanitarian, but
at that period both the preacher and his
congregation believed in the literal existence
of Hell somewhere in the middle of the earth
where sinn u\s were pitchforked into the flames
by devils, presumably made of asbestos. The
popularising of science may have its draw-
A PATIENT!
DOCTOR'S WIFE: “Could you call to-morrow?”
PATIENT: “Why—isn’t the doctor in to-day?”
DOCTOR'S WIFE: “Fes, but it’s his birthday to-
morrow, and I should so like him to have a
surprise.”
backs, but it has at least drawn the teeth
of the Hell-fire ecclesiastic.
* * * -Jj
The Christmas Bulletin, to be published
next week (Dec. 14), will be two Bulletins
in one—-the regular issue wdth all the well-
known features of the Christmas Bulletin
added. The short-stories are an exception-
ally cheerful collection : they include the best
dog story ever written in Australia
(“Clincher,” by F. D. Davison) ; one of
Katharine Susannah Prichard’s long short-
stories of early Westralian goldfields life
and its quaint characters V a yarn by Wil-
liam Hatfield introducing a remarkable word-
picture of the remand yard at Long Bay
prison; a beautifully written phantasy by
the late David McKee Wright (almost the
last of his unpublished stories) ; and more
by Vance Palmer. John Abbott, Velia
Ercole, Steele Budd, E. V. Timms and
others. It is easily the greatest gathering
of Australian novelists and story-writers
ever seen in one issue of a newspaper. The
price will be the usual sixpence.
RONDEAU.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The associates’ committee of the Canberra Golf
Club has passed a resolution condemning the wear-
ing of shorts, and the lady who wore them has agreed
not to do it again.”
In silken shorts she took the floor,
The links tvith verdure coated o’er.
She teed her ball sans fuss or fear.
The bold sartorial pioneer
Of all the golf associates’ corps.
Where male enthusiasts explore
New ways of beating Bogey’s score,
She stood, a vision calm and clear.
In silken shorts:
But oh ! it led to trouble sore ;
’Twas “Fie !” her sisters shrilled, not “Fore !”
Looks disapprovingly severe
Fell on the bifurcated gear.
Result: She’ll tvalk the links no more
In silken shorts!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


sues
PERSONAL
ITENS
There are 139 Australian knights of
one kind or another according to the
new “Year Book,” which The Bulletin
and five metropolitan dailies are sponsoring.
Some of them, however, have associations
with the Commonwealth rather than roots
in it. Edward Wittenoom is the senior
K.G.M.G. He dates from 1900; .Tosiah
Symon and Alec Peacock, from 1901.
There was genuine regret in Melbourne at
the sudden demise of Fred Knight, president
of the Taxpayers’ Association. Since 1914,
when he sold South Comongin station in
Queensland and joined in the business whirl
of Meloburne, he gathered around him a vigil-
ance committee on taxation and kept on peg-
ging away at what he conceived to be injus-
tices. He was fortunate in striking as first
secretary of the association Herbert Winton,
formerly of the “Argus,” who carried on
till the grave claimed him. Knight had just
come from the wedding of his wife’s niece
(Margery Falkiner, now Mrs. Fitts) when
the call came. He was 71.
Charles Glubbe, the great surgeon who
died lately in Sydney, could work at the
table almost as well with the left hand as
the right. As Clnbbe gave most of his best
years to the Children’s Hospital, a memorial
fund is being established to support
research work in children’s diseases.
Thirty years ago Fred Johns, then on the
“Register” staff, Adelaide, began keeping a
birthday book, from which he wrote up a
monthly par. for The Bulletin; and for
as far back as most people can remember
this paper has printed “Birthdays of the
month,” a feature of which Johns has always
had charge. Out of his birthday book sprang his
“Notable Australians,” first published in!9o6.
and later his “Who’s Who in Australia,”
one of the most valuable deskbooks produced
in this country. Down to 1914 S. Australia
had no official “Hansard” staff: the reports
were made and printed under contract by
the two Adelaide dailies : when in that year
it was decided to set up a staff Johns was
appointed leader, and he continued in the
job until- he died last week, aged 64. He
was a glutton for work, and had not missed
FRED JOHNS, Founder of “Who’s Who
in Australia.”
a sitting of Parliament from the day of his
appointment until the beginning of last
month. Besides his “Hansard” work and his
books and his Bulletin contributions he
found time to be chairman and secretary
of many Adelaide institutions, and until
a few years ago was also an enthusiastic
Freemason.
Fred Johns, the biographer, whose death
has occurred in Adelaide, had been in hospi-
tal for some weeks, but stuck gamely to such
work, as he could do. With the last slip of
copy sent by him to this office, his list of
November birthdays, came an accompany-
ing note: “I fancy I have seen the end of
my career in the public service, from which
I shall retire next year. My billet, one of
the most strenuous in the service, has been
wholly-responsible for the complete shatter-
ing of my health.”
Died at S 6, James Grice, who was for
many years a prominent figure in Victorian
pastoral and commercial circles, a solid sup-
porter of the turf and a good friend to
many charitable institutions. His father
was Richard Grice, and he early joined the
firm of Grice, Sumner and Co., but his
interests gradually extended until they
ranged from insurance to phosphates. He
was two years older than his brother John,
barrister and director of many enterprises,
who was knighted during the war-years.
Voters in the Barcoo (Q.) electorate have
not bad a vote at a State election for 12
years. Back in 1919 they sent 25-year-old
F. W. Bulcbck, now Minister for Agricul-
ture, to the Assembly, in succession to the
late T. J. Ryan. The “baby” of the House,
ns he then was, retained the seat the follow-
ing year with a record majority. Since
then no one has bothered to oppose him.
Queensland Minister for Agriculture
BULCOCK.
Bulcock moved north by stages. He was
born at Ararat (Vic.) and received his
schooling in N. S. Wales. There he won a
scholarship and had a course in agricul-
ture and veterinary practice, taking his
finals in 1912, when he was dux of his col-
lege. Bananaland called liim in 1913 and
he was doing station work before becoming
an A.W.U. organiser and entering politics.
Donald Macdonald, whose nature notes
and cricket and football reports were
features of the “Argus” for many years,
passed over in Melbourne the other day at 75.
Born in Fitzroy, he acquired a passion for
the out-of-doors during a boyhood spent at
Keilor. He was the first Australian war cor-
respondent to reach South Africa during the
argument with Kruger and he was one of
the besieged at Ladysmith. His experiences
gave him material for a lecture with which
he toured Great Britain, Australia and
Maoriland. The muscular type of Christian,
lie had a fervent faith in the spiritual value
of sport and nature study for the younger
generation. He was a schoolmaster before
he became a journalist.
Dr. Bradford, the Sydney Harbor Bridge
engineer, is due to leave the N.S.W. public
service at the end of the month. He was
born at Sandgate (Q.) 65 years ago.
The oldest learner at Essendon (Vic.)
aerodrome is Charles Berglund, J.P., of
Upper Beaconsfield. He is 67, and is one
of Captain Frank Neale’s pupils.
Thomas H. Payne, passed out in Mel-
bourne at 69, came of pastoral stock and
was one of the State’s best known cattle-
breeders and -exhibitors. lie sat for 27
years in the Leg. Council, representing South
Yarra and Melbourne South, and had become
the father of the House on his retirement
four years ago. He was an honorary Minis-
ter under Bent in 190 S and at a later period
was acting President for some months.
J. S. Weatherston, who has been appointed
Deputy-Chief of the Parliamentary reporting
staff at Canberra, began his press career
on the Murchison goldfields (W.A.) 35
years ago. He was on the “West Aus-
tralian” before joining the “Hansard” staff
at Perth ; and about 20 years back he trans-
ferred to Commonwealth “Hansard.”
Frank Coffey, dead in Adelaide at 69,
was so famous a football umpire in the
long ago that no less a person than C. C.
Kingston induced him to leave Melbourne
for Adelaide about 1895. And there he
controlled matches for some 20 years, except
for a visit to the Westralian goldfields, where
he was equally useful.
According to Dorman Long’s published
balance-sheets the firm lost £442,279 on
the Sydney Harbor Bridge—about half of it
due to exchange. But these balance-sheets
don’t always mean quite what they say. For
instance, a lot depends in this case upon
what value the co. puts on the plant which
was provided for the work and was left on
its hands afterwards. Certainly the co.
hasn’t put any black mark against the name
of the engineer who made up the estimates
and carried through the job. He has lately
been made the co.’s managing director.
The Bulletin lost one of its old contribu-
tors when Alfred Kelly, formerly Inspector of
S.A. mounted police, died last month. Born
at Morphett Vale 80 years ago, he joined
the force in 1873 and served for 45 years
in various parts, being finally assigned to
Adelaide, where he was in charge of the
mounted division. He retired in 1918.
Adelaide has lost a good all-round man in
Dr. John Muirhead. He was on Gallipoli,
was badly wounded at Ypres, and gained a
D.S O. Before that he had rowed for Adel-
aide in inter-university races; and latterly
he won the Australian dinghy championship
in Sydney Harbor with AVhite Cloud. He
was only 48 at the end.
Leslie McGhie, for many years well known
through his connection with the Queensland
Meat Export Co., died in Brisbane last
week at 06. Born at Ballarat, he went to
Gympie with his parents when the goldfield
was discovered; his early working days were
spent with Walkers, Ltd., the Maryborough
ironfounders. In 1892 he joined the Q.M.E.
as secretary, rising to the position of general
manager and director. For the last dozen
years he was associated with the firm’s
Westralian interests, retiring a few months
ago.
Vic.’s Inspector-General of the Insane,
Dr. W. E. Jones, has been given an exten-
sion of his term for three years. He came
from Wales in 1905, when Bent was
Premier. He had Mont Park established
and Yarra Bend swept away, and if he can
get his way there will be a modern asylum
built in Gippsland.
General the Earl of Cavan, who has been
promoted to field-marshal vice the late
Lord Methuen, will be remembei’ed by those
Australians who served on the Italian front
as commander of the reinforced 10th
Italian army on the Piave, following on
the Austrian break-through in 1918. Prior
to that he had been head of the 14th British
army corps and was later in charge of the
Guards division. He first saw active ser-
vice in the South African War.
The Ashburnham (N.S.W.) State elector-
ate has had three reps, in five years, and
all of them have owned fancy front names
—Carncross Best, Theopholus Keast, and
now Hylton Oswald Elliott. Elliott, who
belongs to the Country party, is a serious-
minded son of the soil. His dad was one
of the pioneer settlers at Forbes, and Hyl-
ton has a property a few miles from the
old homestead. He had his first taste of
public life 22 years ago when he became
president of the Forbes branch of the
Farmers and Settlers’ Association; he has
had the same job several times since, and
for years has been a prominent figure at
the annual conference at Sydney. Twice
president of the Jemalong Shire Council, he
H. O. ELLIOTT, Country Party M.L.A.
(N.S.W.)
has also been an advocate for an extension
of the work of local government bodies. In
1919 he was chairman of the Shire Board
appointed by the Government to deal with
applications for relief by the Rural Indus-
tries Branch. The board dealt locally with
700 applications and Mr. Elliott holds that
they were handled more satisfactorily than
by present R. 1.8. methods. Five years ago
he toured Canada and the U.S.A. looking
for health and points in marketing agricul-
tural products. His victory last June was
a gain for the Country party.
Alexander Macintosh, who has been much
in the eye of the M.L. public of late, is a
retired banker who received his train-
ing in Australia and who, among other
exalted jobs, has been g.m. of the Bank of
N.Z., president of the Savings Bank Com-
missioners of N. S. Wales, and M.L. super-
intendent of Dalgety’s. He’s no limelighter,
but he got into the headlines recently by
incurring the displeasure of Parliament.
As member of a Royal Commission on State
ALEX. MACINTOSH, who has been
“aspersing” the M.L. Parliament.
expenditure he produced a minority report
in which he stated that part of the Domin-
ion’s current financial troubles could be
traced to the buying of votes with public
works. He was called before a select com-
mittee, but refused to retract ; and Parlia-
ment, after chewing the matter over, decided
that on account of his advanced age it
would let him off with a caution. The
sequel was one of the most enthusiastic
public meetings ever held in Wellington, at
which speeches were made applauding Mac-
intosh for his candor.
Dixon Hearder, the barrister, has been
placed on Vic. Liquor Licenses Reduction
Board, succeeding Vivian Tanner, an ex-
M.P., who retires at 72. Robert Barr and
J. Lock will continue as the other members.
Dixon Hearder is a brother-in-law of ex-
Premier Walter James, of Westralia.
Passed out at Kalgoorlie, after nearly
half a century on and about the Inky Way,
Walter Hewitt, who joined the staff of the
local “Miner” close on 30 years ago. Hewitt,
who was 71, was a Victorian native whose
early press experiences were gained at Balla-
rat and on the Melbourne “Herald.”
Boer War veterans still drift back to Aus-
tralia after prolonged absences. One such is
G. Treadwell, who left newspaper work in
Queensland at 18 to join the Bushmen’s
Contingent, got a job on a Jo’burg paper
at the close of the war, and returns to
Australia to supply S’Afriean newspapers
with accounts of the present Test matches.
Another was a recent visitor - , Captain T. F.
Watson, who had been 19 years in Westralia
when he became a Boer War contingenter.
He finished as an officer on Kitchener’s stliff
and went to England; he hadn’t seen his
native Sydney for over 50 years.
Henry Hatton, who died in Toowoomba
at other day at 92, came from England to
Melbourne in the gold fever of the ’so’s,
but arrived on the Darling Downs a few
years later. There he opened a butchering
business and made his first big strike when
the Stanth'orpe tin fields were discovered,
taking out cattle on the hoof and selling
the meat to the miners of the then rather
inaccessible field. As the years went on
lie made profitable investments in Toowoomba
real estate. A. notable figure, the veteran
claimed to know all the old hands on the
Darling Downs, and certainly most of the
inhabitants, old or new, were well acquainted
with him.
J. C. Eccles, M.A., D. Phil., of Exeter
College, Oxford, has. been elected to a senior
research fellowship in medicine, the Staines
Fellowship. Eccles was Vic. Rhodes scholar
for 1925, and at the completion of his term
he was appointed junior Fellow of the College
and commenced research work on the brain
and nerves under Sir Charles Sherrington.
He and four other physiologists are the
authors of a. textbook entitled “Reflex
Activity of the Spinal Cord.” The Staines
Fellowship carries £4OO a year for five years.
S.A.’s new Rhodes scholar comes from one
of its many old German-descended families,
and one with a brilliant record for scholar-
ship. T. S. Dorsch scored all along the 'line
at Prince Alfred’s and Adelaide University.
He is also president of the Literary Society,
an inter-’varsity debater, and an inter-State
hockey player.


THE M.L.C. FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this
policy in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most..required.
The Annual Income to the family on the death
of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the sum
assured, and is payable in monthly instalments
during the balance of the period of years
selected by the Assured.
One-tenth of the capital Sum Assured is payable
immediately on proof of death and title, to-
gether with reversionary bonuses attaching-
(which vest from the commencement) ; and the
full capital Sum Assured is paid also to the
dependents when the Income Period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
Here’s the Belt for
Difficult Drives
Chromol Leather Belting will soon
tame that troublesome drive in
your plant. It has no equal for
< long and dependable service under
constant shock loads; it is
■weatherproof, steamproof and does
not slip. Let us show you how
to get more efficient transmission
for every type of drive with
CHROMOL
THE SUPER DRIVING BELT.
Manufactured and guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LIMITED,
117 York Street, Sydney ; and
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius . . 10,000 tons, Jan. 10
tThemistocles 11,500 ~ Jan. 31
tNestor .. 14,500 „ Mar. 11
. . 18,500 „ Mar. 21
*First class only. t First and third class.
I Cabin class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.] Joint
Dalgety $ Co., Ltd. j AsentJ
"THE 'WILD CAT' MONTHLY"
December Issue Now Ready
Douglas Credit.
War Debts and the Investor.
Are Stocks Overvalued?
The Market Outlook.
Capital Reconstructions.
Rights of Pref. Shareholders.
These and many other questions of
vital interest to investors will be
discussed in the December issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
The
WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
To Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 698,124 10 p.c. = 521,609 176,515 3,827,438
1923.. 825,082 10 „ „ 597,981 227,101 4,054,539
1924.. 846,833 10 „ „ 600,000 246,833 4,301,372
1925.. 979,383 121 „ ~ 750,000 229,383 4,530,755
1926.1,099,559 12l „ ~ 750,000 349,559 4,880,314
Bank of Western Australia absorbed.
Net reserves taken over, £600,851.. 6,481,165
1927. 1,226,247 121 p.c.= 886,797 339,150 5,820,615
1928. 1,184,943 12s „ „ 936,905 248,038 6,068,653
1929.. 994,825 10 „ ~ 750,000 244,825 6,313,478
1930.. 734,699 9J „ „ 731,250 3,449 6,316,927
1931. . 565,236 8 „ „ 619,200 6.262.963
1932.. 462,967 51,, „ 400,950 2,017 6,264,980
Early in the term the business of the Aus-
tralian Bank of Commerce (a reconstruction
of the old A.J.S., which had crashed badly
in the ’nineties) was bought for £1,280,000 in
scrip. The difference between that figure
and the net tangible book value of the
A.B.C.’s assets (this difference amounted
to £2,060,267 at June 30, 1931) was
whisked away to inner reserves. In round
figures the amount of business involved was
£11,000,000 each of advances and deposits,
mainly in N. S. Wales.
Nevertheless, after meeting all outgoings,
writing something off the book value of
premises and providing for bad and doubtful
debts and other contingencies, the board put
the year’s net profit £102,269 short of the
1931 figure ; it showed 5.3 p.e. on capital (now
£8,780,000) as against 7.5, 9.8, 13.3, 15.8
and 17.3 p.c. back to 1927. The div., which
was at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a. for the first
quarter, was dropped to 5 p.c., making 5a
p.e. for the year. Until a little over 12
months ago, the co. had never paid less than
9 p.c. since the old co-partnery closed its
existence in 1850. Factors which affected
last year’s earnings were a cut of 22J p.c.
in returns from Consols, of 33J p.c. from
Treasury bills, less business in the exchange
market and a reduction of 1 p.c. or more
in the charge for overdrafts, etc. These
were only partly offset by cuts in prices paid
for new deposits, which continued to expand.
On the average, margins here should im-
prove slightly 'as deposit contracts at the
old rates run out. The interest on short-
dated Treasury bills was further reduced
from 4 p.c. to 31 p.c. as from Nov. 1. Inci-
dentally, this class of papei*, a big wad of
which lias been put out to finance budgetary
deficits, has given employment to a lot of
interest-bearing bank deposits that would
otherwise have remained idle; and it seems
likely, to remain a feature of the local money
market for some time.
As for the future, the chairman has sug-
gested that more profit is likely to be dis-
closed as conditions generally improve. Il'ence
the market prices the £2O paid shares at
£3O ss. as against £26 in May last. The
return at £3O ss. is 3.1 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis, or 4.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c. distribution.
An 8. p.c. div. on capital alone would call
for 4.6 p.c. on shareholders’ visible funds
(capital and reserves combined) as at Sept.
30.
_ Balance-sheet figures disclose a solid finan-
cial structure, as they always have done,
and the absorption of the A.B.C. was mainly
responsible for last year’s movements:—
1920. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Notes..... £832,882 £527,027 ,£481,455 ■ £564,773
Bills, etc. 10,049,549 6,068,480 4,264,758 5,164,381
Deposits. 50,068,085 66,238,223 69,388,093 83,943,595
Liquids.. 29,289,187 24,818,897 31,119.729 37,980,449
Advances. 39,425,089 60,400,511 55,109,240 64,547,029
Premises. 820,000 1,600,000 1,800,000 2,300,000
Apart from the merger, there appears to
have been a growth in deposits (about 73
p.c. of the lot is interest-bearing) and a
contraction in advances. When the hooks
closed advances amounted to 76.8 p.c. of the
deposits as against 91.2 p.c. two years
earlier: liquids were equal to 42.3 p.c. of
the liabilities to the public, and the bank was
holding £5 19s. of outside money for every
pound of its own. Hence it is both weil
equipped and apparently anxious to extend
its lending connections as soon as favorable
opportunity offers.
The T. and G.
These are the initials by which the Aus-
tralasian Temperance and General Mutual
Life Assurance Society, Ltd., is known
throughout Australia and Maoriland, where
it has been writing policies for more than
half a century:—
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1922 .. 651,114 119,104 176,085 355,925 2,732,754
1923 .. 747,049 130,123 205,018 411,908 3,144,662
1924 .. 845,875 148,245 232,516 465,114 3,609,776
Transferred from Industrial, £19,473.. 3 1 ,629,249
1925 .. y. 55,169 153,991 278,385 522,793 4,152,042
1926 1,067.219 169.010 335.016 563,193 4,715,235
1927 1,200,326 189,528 340,957 669,841 5,385,076
1328 1,330,995 199,420 409,567 722,008 6.107,084
1929 1,480,462 240,043 530,073 710,346 6,817,430
Written off premises, £4900 . . . . 6,812,530
Transferred to contingency fund, £7300. . 6,805,230
1930 . 1,619,556 262,586 603.373 753,597 7,558,827
Written off premises, £49,036 .. 7,509,791
Transferred to contingency fund, £36,777. . 7,473,014
1931 1,701,929 281,880 .759,152 660,897 8,133,911
Written off premises, £49,327 .. 8,084,584
Transferred to contingencv fund, £29,597. . 8,054,987
1932 1,652,870 306,856 784,224 561,790 8,616,777
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1922 . . 991,568 343,108 159,501 488,959 2,755,875
1923 .. 1,141.979 386,456 212,235 543.288 3,299.163
1924 . . 1;298,264 437,360 253,094 607,810 3,906,973
Transferred to Ordinary, £19,473 . . 3,887,500
1925 .. 1,460,029 479,447 349.723 630,859 4,518,359
1926 .. 1,633,937 521,034 443,510 669,393 5,187,752
1927 .. 1,823,352 583,528 544.947 694,877 5,882,629
1928 .. 1,981,156 612,063 641,205 727,888 6,610,517
1929 .. 2,143,427 062,369 799,008 682,050 7,292,567
Written off premises, £5lOO .. .. 7,287,467
Transferred to contingency fund, £7700.. 7,279,767
1930 . . 2,224,967 680,186 901,607 643,174 7,922.941
Written off premises, £50,868 .. 7,872,073
Transferred to contingency fund,' £113,151.. 7,758,922
1931 . . 2,188,137 661,797 929,514 596,826 8,355,748
Written off premises, £50,673 .. 8,305,075
Transferred to contingency fund, £70,403 .. 8,234,672
1932 .. 2,108,142 677,116 893,413 537,613 8,772,285
The latest accounts disclose encouraging
results in those matters over which the man-
agement has control. In the two departments
combined, an extra £165,931 of new business
was written (£10,619,107), and surrenders
(£587,166) were £51,388 lighter, whereas the
1931 figures showed a slip of £1,865,526 in
the amount of new business and a growth of
£200,223 in surrenders. But there was a sharp
contraction of £110,121 in the return from
investments (£825,279), due mainly to legis-
lative cuts in interest and rents, while net
premiums (£2,959,813) fell away £13,079.
Thus there was a shrinkage in income from
all sources (£3,785,092) of £123,200 ; and out-
goings (£2,677,873) were £29,290 heavier.
After striking £lOO,OOO off the book
value of premises, and sending a like amount
to the contingency reserve (now £425,413),
£907,219, or £102,490 less than for the pre-
vious year, was added to the Life fund, rais-
ing it to £17,412,913 at Sept. 30.
Notwithstanding all this the actuary was
able to figure a larger surplus for division
amongst policy-holders :
1920. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Net surplus:—
Ordinary . . £61,165 £398,612 £389,768 £393,592
Industrial .. 33,261 190,059 237,111 286,548
Total .. £94,426 £588,671 £626,879 £680,140
Bonuses were increased slightly in the Indus-
trial department; in the Ordinary branch
they were maintained on the same scale as
in 1931, when there was a small reduction
in the rate. With a view to the mainten-
ance of satisfactory bonuses, the basis of
valuation was changed from a mixed 34 p.c.
and 3 p.c. to a uniform 3 p.c. a year* ago.
The wisdom of this is made plain by a sharp
drop of 245. 3d. per cent, in last year’s net
interest return on mean funds (£3 16s. Id.
per cent.). The slip is due to statutory and
other cuts in interest rates and the growth
in taxation—last year’s bill was £49,790
heavier at £180,167.
In the Ordinary branch £239,905 less new
business was put on the books at approxi-
mately the same average cost as in the
previous year:—
1920. 1931. 1932.
Policies .. . . 15,791 . 21,053 22,179
Amount .. .. £2,756,710 £6,421,427 £5,181,522
First premiums . . 88,798 199,109 169,344
Renewals . . . . 276,813 1,031,188 1,070,162
Interest, etc. . . 101,872 458,694 407,564
Excluding taxation, exes, took 17.1 p.c. of
the year’s net premiums as against 17.1,
18.8,'19, 18.6 and 19.5 p.c. back to 1927. The
first premiums cost 70.7 p.c. as against 70.6
p.c. in ’3l and 74.9 p.c. in ’29.
In the Industrial department the new
business written (£5,437,585) was £405,836
better. Again excluding taxes, exes, took
34.9 p.c. of the net premiums as against
35 p.c. and 36 pic. for the two preceding
years.
Funds in the society’s care (£1.7,921,148
at Sept. 30) have been placed in the follow-
ing proportions:—
1915. 1927. 1930. 1931. 1932.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Public securities .. 3,4.9 75.5 62.5 62.3 63.0
Loans .. .. 43.0 14.7 24.6 25.1 24.4
Freeholds .. .. 16.3 7.7 10.6 10.5 10.8
Cash and sundries .. 5.8 2.1 2.3 2.1 1.8
The year’s surplus was invested mostly in
Government securities (£11.278,047. up
£624,924), loans on policies (£1,536,920, up
£181,722) and premises (£1,933,040, up
£142,289 net).
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 97,772 12| p.c. = 62,500 35,272 308,114
1923.. 100,552 124 „ ~ 62,500 38,052 346,166
1924.. 102,266 124 „ ~ 62,500 39,766 385,932
1925.. 104,560 124 „ „ 62,500 42,060 427,992
1926.. 144,529 124 ~ ~ 62,500 82,029 510,021
1927.. 140,526 124 „ „ 62,500 78,026 588,047
1928.. 125,869 124 „ ~ 62,500 63,369 651,416
1929.. 102,508 124 „ „ 62,500 40,008 691,424
1930.. 62,299 10 „ „ 50,000 12,299 703,723
Payment to reinsure American
risks, £75,000 628,723
1931.. 75,467 10 p.c. = 50,000 25,467 654,190
1932.. 89,353 10 „ ~ 50,000 39,353 693,543
The American section of the business had
become unprofitable, and looked like remain-
ing so; hence the New York and Montreal
offices, set up in 1924 and 1925 respectively,
were closed before the hooks were ruled off
in 1931. The premium income involved was
about £200.000. Also the co.’s London marine
business, which had been unsatisfactory for
a decade or more, was curtailed. These
changes were chiefly responsible for the
further slip of £80,74S in last year’s net
premiums, which were also affected by the
evaporation of insurable value, and by dis-
turbed conditions in India and China.
So far the smaller business lias been
more profitable, as this comparison of under-
writing performances shows :
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Claims. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1835. . £40,681 £28,703 £ 13,058 70.7 p.c. 32.1 p.c.
1900.. 75.310 44.053 20,529 58.5 „ 27.2 „
1905.. 74,118 43,129 26,020 '58.2 „ 35.1 „
1910.. 124,213 60,286 47,911 48.5 „ 38.5 „
1915.. 240,849 118,126 81,098 49.0 „ 33.6 „
1920.. 440,021 169.775 180,277 38.6 ~ 40.9 „
1925.. 556,191 259,791 219,851 52.1 „ 39.5 „
1928.. 882,801 532,457 299.196 60.3 „ 33.9 „
1929.. 832,418 494,588 310,906 59.4 „ 37.3 „
1930.. 774,560 485,040 306,804 62.6 „ 39.8 „
1931.. 516,397 295,828 217,492 57.3 „ 42.1 „
1932.. 435,649 223,587 190,021 51.3 „ 43.6 „
Thus losses were £72.241 lighter, and exes,
were reduced by £27,471, leaving tlie under-
writing surplus £18,964 better at £22,041.
The return from investments (£67,312, equal
to 13.4 p.c. on capital) fell away £5078, due
to the drop in interest and rents, The net
return from all sources combined sprang
£13.886, reaching 17.8 p.c. on capital, as
against 15.1, 12.4, 20.5, 25.1 and 28.1. p.c.
back to 1927. The div. was kept at 10. p.c.,
and the £39,353 that remained lifted reserves
at Sept, 30 £193,543 in excess- of the half-
millipn of capital, of which £425 00(3 was
provided out of surplus earnings during the
nine years to 1920.
The more rigid selection of risks, together
with tlie improvement in tlie outlook gener-
ally, makes shareholders’ prospects as bright
as anything of the kind can be at the
moment. At 565. the pound shares return
3.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis, or 4.5 p.c.
should the 24 p.c.’ bonus, which was paid
with the 10 p.c. div. for the 16 years to the
close of accounts in ’29, be restored.
As for policy-holders, they could see net
tangibles with a book value equal to 365 p.c.
of last year’s net premiums, or over double
the amount usually considered adequate.
Funds were, in this form :
- -1931- . -1932 ,
p.c. p.c.
Government securities.. £697,995 44.6 £698,683 45.0
Municipal securities .. 107,004 6.8 107,004 6.9
Deposits, cash, sundry
debtors, etc. .'. 598,208 38.3 584,460 37.7
Premises .. . . 160,224 10.3 160,765 10.4
During the year £51,871 was knocked off the
amount coming to sundry creditors, reducing
it to £307,370, including something for con-
tingencies.
Harris, Searfe, Ltd. (S. Aus.)
, Dividends S
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. . 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1921.-120,710 12,000 10 p.c. =104,436 4,274 117,974
1922.. 186 12,000 8. „ „ 86,657 3,529 121,503
1923.. 82,301 12,000 6 „ „ 64,993 5,308 126.811
1924.. 79,053 12,000 .6 „ „ 64,99.3 2,060 128,871
1925.. 88,341 12,000 7 „ „ 75,825 516 129,387
1926.. 90,841 12,000 7 „ ~ 75,825' 3,016 132,403
1927.. 96,635 12,000 7 „ „ 75,825 8,810 141,213
Transferred to bad debts reserve, £7000.. 134,213
Unexplained reduction in reserves, £9363.. 124.850
1928.. 54,663 12,000 4 p.c. = 43,328 124,185
Loss on reconstruction of implement
branch, £50,188 .. .. .. 73,997
1929.. 25,104 12,000 Nil 13,104 87,101
Loss on sale of fittings, £14,534 . . 72,567
Special provision for bad debts, £19,000.. 53,567
Loss.
1930.. 37,645 12,000 Nil 3,922
Deficit.
1931.. 911. Nil Nil 166,989
1932.. 67,079 Nil Nil 234,068
In other times the co. had strong agricul-
tural and mining connections, acting as a dis-
tributor of many lines which are split up
amongst specialty houses in the other States.
Hence Harris Scarfe’s grew to be the larg-
est hardware concern in the Commonwealth,
and over a third of the capital went into
premises, etc. Clothing and other depart-
mental lines are also retailed in the Grenfell-
street emporium. With the depression farmers
became poor in custom and credit, while in
Adelaide building activity slumped. Exchange
and primage became a severe burden, and
the 6 p.c. sales tax ate further into profit
margins, which rapidly disappeared. In
1930, following small profits, heavy losses
showed up, and have since continued, though
the worst seems to have now been passed.
In 1931 stocks were written down £40,000.
£39,000 was specially set aside against J>ook
debts, shares were also written down £7OOO,
and an extra £6OOO was lopped off plant.
Including these charges the year’s trading-
resulted in a loss of £170,911.
Last term, after valuing stock at £75,303
less, gross profits (£158.008) improved
£21,886; exes. (£225,773, including adequate
provision for bad and doubtful debts and
depreciation) were cut back £81,946; thus
the year’s loss (£67,(079) was £103,832
lighter. The agricultural-machinery section
of the Implement Co. was closed during the
year. The accounts now show an accumu-
lated debit of £234,068, but cleaning-up has
been postponed until all losses have been
ascertained and the nosition is clear enough
to allow the assets to be valued on the basis
of their earning power.
Large hardware houses, particularly those
which do no manufacturing, are disappear-
ing one after another. In Sydney there are
only one or two left. Notwithstanding the
post-war and pre-depression building acti-
vity, largely influenced by lavish borrowing,
good seasons and high prices, there has been
very little in hardware trading. Harris
Scarfe’s turnover showed a steady decline
from 1926 until last term. The co. did some
mild writing-up of capital in 1920; only by
careful handling was an average of 7 p.c.
paid to the ords. thereafter until 1928. They
have, had nothing since, and pref. require-
ments are now two years in arrears.
The year’s loss is reflected by a further
slip 0f'£61,126 in the more or less liquid
surplus (£512,254) :
1924. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Pref. capital. . £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Ord. capital.. 1,083,213 1,083,213 1,083,2131,083,213
Bonds . . 149,800 253,500 192,550 183,300
Other liabilities 310,456 178,312 165,048 97,765
Land, plant, etc. 442,554 470,079 462,838 454,010
Harris, Searfe
and Sandovers
(W.A.) . . 131,000 76,150 76,150 81,009
Other shares
and invest- „„' , 00 .
ments . . 11,099 13,134 3,.755 1,821
Stocks . . 753,317 577,274 449,616 374,313
Book tfebts .. 578,868 588,310 481,402 419,006
During the year debtors’ balances were
reduced by £62,456, and £BB2B more was
written off than was spent on fixed assets.
The co.’s interest in Harris, Searfe and
Sandovers, the Perth affiliate, increased by
£3909.
The chairman reports a definitely upward
trend in the co.’s affairs, which should be
helped by the tariff revision. A small profit
may be ’ made this year. Ord. capital is
unrepresented by tangibles to the extent of
3s. sd. per 15s. ord. share; the market prices
tnese at ss. 3d. For the prefs., covered by
£5 ss. in net tangibles, 14s. 9d. is paid.
Myer Emporium (S.A.), Ltd.
, Dividends \
Pref. To Be- Re-
Julv, Profits. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
_£ .£ .£ £L £j
1924.. 54,092 23,956 8 p.c. = 16,000 14,136 58,792
1925.. 38,411 27,790 5 „ „ 10,000 621 59,413
1926.. 30,534 27,790 Nil 2,744 62,15/
1927.. 39,409 27,790 54 p.c. = 11,000 619 62,776
1928.. 30,061 27,790 Nil 8,271-71,04^
1929.. 458 27,790 Nil —43,71 a
1930.. 34,104 27,790 Nil 6,314 50,029
1931.. 38,075 27,790 Nil 10,285 60,314
1932.. 45,001 27,790 7 p.c. = 21,000 —56,58 a
It was in 1928 that Myers, of Melbourne,
bought control from the Marshalls, paying
80s. for each of the 200,000 ords. Immedi-
ately there was a clearance of old stocks,
and profits almost disappeared in 1929. The
organisation was overhauled, premises were
remodelled, attention was given to the manu-
facture of much of the co.’s own require-
ments locally—Holden’s old King William-
street freehold was bought to house some of
tlie manufactories —and a bold trading policy,
similar to that which proved successful in
the parent’s own State, was adopted.
Thus, during each of the last three diffi-
cult years, earnings have continued to
improve, despite falling prices. For the 12
months covered by the latest accounts gross
earnings (£249,401) sprang £10,571. Exes.
(£204:340) took £3585 of the increase, leav-
ing enough to pay the pref. divs. and show
5.7 p.c. on ord. capital as against 3.4 p.c.
and 2.1 p.c. ■ for the two preceding terms.
The ords. were given their first taste (7 p.c.)
since the change in control, and the outlook
favors their remaining in the picture.
Since 1928 £195.859 net lias been added
to tlie book value of fixed assets ; the ords.
put up an extra £lOO,OOO, and the board
went outside for the rest: —
1929. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Capital . . £697,000 £697,000 £697,000 £697,000
Liabilities . . 307,869 181,965 166,047 146,281
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 495,578 498,305 491,852 500,428
Furniture,
plant, etc... 112,467 110,581 112,907 107,306
Stocks . . 296,240 233,745 241,722 226,051
Book debts .. 158,490 113,970 102,924 101;845
Cash .. .. 5,551 7,288 10,351 6,832
Last year £19,766 was knocked off the out-
side debt, reducing it to less than half the
(Continued on page 16.)


CATERPILLAR TRACTION TREAD
t JiedSL
m
.
ATERPILLAR TRACTION-tested and
proved on many a battle-scarred
field—now available in principle in the tread
of the new Barnet Glass Truck Tyres. Like
the “Tanks,” they overcome every obstacle.
Heavy loads and steepest gradients merely
emphasise their sterling quality. The deeply
moulded blocks of tread rubber obtain a
positive grip of the road surface at all angles,
and convey without loss the engine’s maxi-
mum power.
Sinewy rubber-impregnated cords, made of
specially twisted treated cotton, form the
foundation of the massive carcass which is
armoured by powerfully buttressed sidewalls.
The buttresses protect the casing against cuts
and abrasion, prevent distortion, and rapidly
dissipate its greatest enemy —generated heat,
thus ensuring long life and greater mileage.
BarnelGlass
ARMOURED
WAIL
►
TRUCPHTYRES
. . . HEAT RESISTING
/-,
Ik
up


nt^ • Have you an idea worth patenting?
Gnffith, Hassei and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coli.ison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Colli son and Co. (Melb.). — Advt
*** ’ *
METALS. If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Tvpo Metals,
Bearing Metars and other alloys, try LEMPRTERE
ArvD GO., Sirius House, Sydney. —Advt
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynam if e
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY LTD
ESTABLISHED 1872. 9 *
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street. Sydney
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-das.
Breakages. Burglary, Guarantee Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, Me
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court 422-24 Cnlline s, . ~ „
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street Brisbtlle. M '»>o»rne.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled Agents i„ all Principal Country Towns.
G. BROWN, General Manager,
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
n,o»^m^' lnC T rporat f d under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart. Esq. ; M. J Ryan, Esq.;
i. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jollv, Esq., C.M.G
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With nfflco * r H f AD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne Svdnev and Q 5
branches an Queensland, and Northern Rivers, N S. Wales, also represent at ior
the ® a " kl . 11 ? . Institut [ ons covering Australasia and the World, this
a k offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
O. E. FRIEND
CECIL H DO.YLE
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
Di rectors:
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairmanj
THUS. BUCKLAND
J. H. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr. '
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
’29 figure. The shrinkage in the book value
of stocks and debtors’ balances over the last
three years is due largely to the altered trad-
ing policy. During the last term there was
little change in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£188,447, including stocks).
Direct public interest is confined to the
100,000 A and 297,000 B prefs., both 7 p.c.
cumulative, with priority as to capital. At
255. 9d. and 255. the return is 5.4 p.c. and
5.6 p.c. on the A and B shares respectively.
The net tangible cover is £7 10s. 8d„ A’s;
£2 45., B’s.
Aladdin Tyres (Q.), Ltd.
This co. (mentioned B. 23/11/’32) has
asked the. “Wild Cat” to point out that the
retail prices for rebuilding tvres by its
process, put in the prospectus at £2 7s. 6d.
per tyre, is an price. The co.' also
says that there is no other co. doing exactly
its class of work in Brisbane. Agreed';
but the “Wild Cat” thought it fair to men-
tion the “retread” people as probable com-
petitors, on the principle that a bootmaker
who only half-soles shoes is likely to capture
some of the trade of another cobbler who
only puts full soles on at a higher price, even
though the half-sole may not add so much
to the life of the shoe.
The “Wild Cat” said the minimum sub-
scription for allotment (35,000 shares)
would little more than cover the vendor’s
cut and preliminary exes. Cash payment
to the vendor is £21,500, to be spread over
three years, while preliminary exes, are put
at £4400, and working capital at £7450. In
the full prospectus, now to hand for the
first time, “that part of the purchase price
of the property to be purchased which is
to_be defrayed out of the proceeds; of the
[35,000] issue” is put at £23,150. Further
down the money expected to be required for
the purchase of plant is said to be included
in the £23,150. But a succeeding paragraph
says: “The balance of the purchase money. ..
to the vendors.... and of the purchase price
of the plant and machinery, buildings and
alterations thereto, etc.—a total of £33,350
; —be paid out of any shares in this issue
in excess of the £35,000 minimum, the issue of
further shares and the trading profits of the
company.” The whole subject of capital out-
lay is thus very indefinitely treated; but it
seems that the co. will have liabilities
amounting to £33,350 should subscriptions
fail to exceed 35,000 shares. That is the
point which the “Wild Cat” wishes to make
plain. As previously mentioned, the inven-
tion appears to have distinct possibilities if
it will do all that is claimed.
Broken Hill Wages Agreement
The Broken Hill cos. have agreed to con-
tinue the old arrangement under which they
added 7s. 6d. to the State basic wage.
While the cost of living is £3 16s. 6d.
men on the base will therefore get £4 4s.
a. week. But, for whatever it may be
worth, they pulled this out of the negotia-
tions: the £4 4s. is an irreducible minimum
for three years. On the other hand thev
are to benefit by rises in lead when the
pmce passes £l6; up to £l7, an extra 6d.
per day; from £l7 to £2O. a further 6d.;
beyond £2O, a further 6d. for every £1 rise
until a maximum of £lf per day is reached.
But, though an irreducible minimum of
14s. per day is fixed, the cos. do not under-
take that work will be found at 14s. a day
or any other price; in other words, though
the cos. agree not to reduce wages by 6d.
or Is., there is no guarantee that they will
uot be reduced to nothing. As for the
rises, the cos. would be very glad to be
called on to pay another 6d. Lead at the
week-end was only £ll 15s. in London, so
there must be a rise of £4 ss. per ton before
the base rate is left behind.
®*], ve F closed last week at a new record
low m N’York, 24| cents, equal to a
shade under Is. (gold price), and that
adds considerably t 0 the difficulties of the
Broken Hill cos.
The negotiations at Broken Hill were
carried through by a committee from each
side, the employers’ reps, led by Mr. Emery
and the workers’ by Mr. O’Neill.
. Concretes”; Yet another Centralian
•mirage has vanished, leaving a strong smell
ot sulphur or worse behind. This is the
field m the Livesey Ranges which one Paddy
Whelan said he had located, producing
specimens to prove it. A party sent out
from Laverton under R. B. Lu'gg has re-
turned and the burden of Lugg’s report is
that he has been badly bitten. Not only
could he find no trace of gold in the LiveseV
Ranges, but still less of Wuelan’s ever liav-
in that Reality. The claim
by Whelan that five leases had been pegged
was equally unsubstantiated. Possibly the
white ants have eaten the pegs, but in any
case the investigators could find no trace's
ot pegs or prospecting work. The party
lett a trig, cairn on the top of the range
with particulars of their search.
t ** * *
Ex-Prospector”: In the Gladstone (Q.)
district many old fields are being raked over
again, and upwards of 100 men are at work.
At Mount Rainbow the Day Dawn mine,
one of the most promising, recently crushed
10 tons for 23.80 z. of gold, worth ,£93. At
the Last Chance a crushing of 19 tons was
put through for 12i|oz., and at the Don 12
tons yielded 6foz. All these mines are
under option to a southern syndicate, and
there may be increased activity shortly. On
the Barmundoo field, another southern crowd
lias taken a prospecting option over the old
Orient, Georgina and Sunrise reefs. On the
Langmorn field, a number of claims have
been pegged nehr the Targinnie Scottish,
and a battery is to be erected. The Lady
Griffith mine, on the Monal field, a profit-
able producer 40 years ago, is also being
further developed, while the Eastern Star,
a new find, prospects 3oz. to the ton. Absence
of water is a handicap. At Cania, Lynch
and party are working two promising
claims: the Slate, near Three Moon Creek,
and Sunlight Gully, where the reef pros-
pects over 2oz. to the ton. On the Milton
field a number of prospectors are at work.
* * * sic
For the year to .Tune 30 the Chillagoe
State Smelters lost £18,322, which is very
much less than for previous years—in 1926
the debit was £155,000. The loss is regarded
as assistance to the mining industry. To
help development companies and prospec-
tors, the smelters have decided to purchase
gold-bearing ores under a specially favorable
tariff. During October, 1660 tons of high-
grade copper ore was smelted at Chillagoe
for 299 tons of copper containing 18oz. gold.
The Mount Oxide tributors dispatched 430
tons, while 420 tons came from the Orphan
and 588 tons from the Trekelano, all in
the Cloneurry district.
* * * s je
During October the Venus State battery,
m the Charters Towers district (Q.), treated
177 tons of ore from 15 different properties
tor a yield of 2970 z., valued at £lO3O with-
out the premium. In the cyanide mill 267
tons of sand yielded 370 z., valued at £155.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan’s directors are so satisfied
with the mine’s now start that they
will shortly announce the financial policy
to be adopted. It will provide for the
reconditioning of further plant and the erec-
tion of a new grinding section of the mill
with a minimum capacity of 500 tons per
j-oaVwik® , cost should not be more than
±oo,ooo. The current production programme
will not be interfered with. Present
umts will be put into commission on a
gradually-increasing basis, and by April 500
tons per day should be reached. At present
high-grade concentrates are being produced
on a daily ore tonnage of about 120. The
directors stress the fact that the metallur-
gical _ problems have been solved and the
experimental stages passed, while the pre-
sent. rate of treatment shows a margin of
profit over operating costs. It has been
decided also t 0 repay forthwith the tem-
porary loan of £15,000 advanced by the
Queensland Government.
*■* * *
At Mount Wandoo (Q.), the shaft has
been sunk a further 48ft. to 180 ft. in the
rich footwall ore vein. Crosscutting will now
be undertaken to prove the ore bodies on
the hanging-wall side. The ore won during
sinking assayed over 2oz. At 200 ft. a level
will be opened out. Excellent drinking
• su PP lie d by Government bore, yield-
mg 3000 gallons per day.
* * * *
Cracow Australian Gold Syndicate has
optioned the Lone Hand lease, 45 miles
sontll .°f Bile da (Q.). The reef is 9in. wide,
and th.e shaft is down 75ft. in stone assay-
ing from 7dwt. to 15dwt.
* * « *
i N f w , Tunn . el > Walhalla (Vic.), has
located 18m of rich stone, assaying over
-. joz., m a shaft on Black Diamond lease.
A tunnel is being driven 180 ft. to cut the
downward continuation 0 f the ore
* * * *
The crushings of Rose, Thistle and Sham-
rock, Harnetville (Vic.), have improved
during recent weeks, the latest being 302
tu nS c f nA^ 329oiZ A St °P in S is in progress over
the 800 ft. and 1180 ft. levels on high-grade
stone. 6
* * *
Wiluna has unwatered and sampled the
principal shaft on the Essex lease, situat°d
three-quarters of a mile north of the Wiluna
main shaft. Assays'of the ore body, which
on continuation of the East lode, were
20s. 2d. per ton over 52ft., with 10ft. assay-
-111 g 40s These values, while unprofitable
the days, are now considered to war-
rant full development. The extensions to
the roasting and flotation sections of the
Wiluna mill are well in hand ; the first of
two new Diesel engines has arrived and is
being installed
* * * *
roTSL 9 ueensla ”d Government distributed
±24, <34 m grants to prospectors for the 12
months to June 30, most of which was spent
m . the Clermont, Charters Towers and War-
wick districts. Since June the Government
has allocated £lO,OOO for prospecting a“ist-
ance. Up to the present no payable finds
of size have been reported from assisted
prospectors, but many are finding profitable
employment. The testing of new finds will
be hastened following the Government’s pur-
chase of three semi-portable stamp batteries,
each weighing two tons and driven by a
crude-oil engine. One'' of these batteries has
already been installed on the Sunnyside field,
south of Mackay.
* * * *
Towers Drilling, Ltd., a Queensland
co. formed to carry out an extensive
diamond-drilling programme at Charters
Towers, has put down four bores so far.
Nos. 1 and 2 were blanks, but No. 3 showed
2ft. of solid quartz at 292 ft., assaying
lOdwt., and No. 4,300 ft. east of No. 3,
proved 10ft. of formation carrying up to
4dwt. Of course, there is a very great
risk in accepting diamond-drill assays, but
the results obtained are decidedly promising.
* * * *
Oliver Reece, a former manager of the-
Tyrconnel, Hodgkinson (N.Q.), has acquired
some 36 separate leases and has purchased
the milling plant on the Tyrconnel, which
will be enlarged to handle 100 tons daily.
.I?. is to erect five electrically-driven
milling plants at centrally-situated sites,
each plant t 0 handle 100 tons. In the vici-
nity Thornborough and Kingsborough
about 90 mines have been worked in the past •
very few showed less than 15dwt. ore The
field has distinct possibilities.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe’s annual report is
expected shortly. Co. is not a mining con-
cern, although the British income-tax people
maintain that it is. It had a gold-producing
area, which was sold to the Lake View in
exchange for Lake View shares: these were
distributed among ’Shoe shareholders. But
there was 2i million tons of tailings not
induded in the deal. Treatment of these by
the New Horseshoe co. has so far resulted
in the return of Is. per share capital to
holders and a reduction of 800,000 tons in
the pile ,of tailings. The new co. has an
interest m Wiluna, which is estimated to be
worth in sterling about 3s. 6d. per ’Shoe
share. The market price in London the
other day was 45., so that for an extra 6d.
per share the buyer takes an interest in the
cash in hand (a substantial amount) and
the result of what the 1,700,000 tons of resi-
dues will produce. In addition there is the
plant. There are 1,100,000 issued shares.
* * * *
South Ivalgurli has just announced esti-
. mates of ore reserves. This time ore wholly
in sight is reckoned to be 209,000 tons
assaying' over Bdwt., and ore partially ex-
posed at 78,000 tons, assaying about cfdwt.
lhis estimate shows little falling-off com-
paied with that of a year ago. Co. is said
to have nearly fl per share cash in hand.
va l ua tion of Lake View and Star
( W.A.) has been substantially increased as
a result ot new developments at 1400 ft in
an entirely undeveloped section of the Lake
View lease, plus a general improvement in
the appearance of the co.’s mines. Total
number of shares held in Australia on Nov
lo was 490,734 out of 2,600,000 issued
*** * '
Business is so brisk that Westralian State
batteries are working overtime, and are pav-
ing for the first time since their inception in
the nineties To date they have extracted
over ol million pounds’ worth of bullion
from prospectors’ and elaimholders’ ore
*** * '
Mutooroo Junction has just abandoned an
option on a Cue goldfield claim (W.A ) but
W 9 ™ l - ° f “ eu .mg another there before
long. This co. tried and failed to make its
fortune at Hampton Plains 12 years ago
and hasn t had any luck since.
* :{: j|j
Occidental Syndicate, which recently took
an option on the Mararoa leases, has become
vJ i" T f T d r? o ‘-r B , lggest shareholders are H. E
?and T t V 'Ir cl if 0n ’ R ‘ Hamilton, J. Sutlier-
Innd J.V Mathers, and last but not least
trnvoli .a m well ' k I n °wn and much-
travelled gold-mining authority. The first
five have been appointed directors, with Vail
as chairman.
* * * *
A Melbourne syndicate has taken up 63
s s “ th f "Ortb «-d °. f m Kolslorlk
neld. Ihe Ironside lease is on the east of
this area, and Enterprise Extended lies to
the south. Prospecting shafts are to be
111 an attempt to locate the continua-
tion ot ;; the Golden Mile ore channel.
I’reney Oil Co. (W.A.) is having a stormy
passage. One critic, geologist H. W Talbot
former superintendent, declares that borin-
has been done m the wrong place and some
distance from the site selected bv him and
State Government Geologist Blatchford
drill f/ th , 6 Spot asserts that slow
wY' condition of holes
bored and inability to shut off water success
fully indicate that the present plant fs
wholly unsuitable. Meanwhile thebSaJd is
endeavoring in the face of vigorous onnosi
tMn to a limited liability Jo to take
over the assets of the present limited co.,
and give shareholders 6s. shares paid to 3s.
in exchange for those now held, together
with a first-call notice of 6d. on the new
shares. Someone has agreed to underwrite
the whole of the new issue at 10 p.c.
* * * *
Under the Maoriland Government’s un-
employment scheme there are 1600 men pros-
pecting for gold throughout the Dominion,
half of them in Central Otago. The revival
in M.L. is shown by the fact that the gold
exported for the seven months of this year
is valued at £555,379, which is greater than
for the whole of 1930, and only £30,000 less
than for 1931.
* * * *
Sugarloaf Tin (Q.) has joined in the
search for gold properties—an alluvial area
suitable for sluicing is wanted. For the
year ended June 30 the co. recovered 75
tons of tin oxide from 112,000 c. yds.,
equivalent to 1.41 b. per c. yd. A loss of £3492
was incurred after writing off £4296 for
depreciation.
* ♦ ❖ ❖
A contract has been entered into between
Italy and the Soviet whereby Italy will
supply 1000 tons of high-grade wolfram ore,
which is being purchased from China, for
large quantities of surplus Soviet wheat.
It is reported also that Indo-China is to
exchange zinc for Soviet wheat. By such
means Russia hopes to place its surplus
grain.
* * * *
Mine trucks in which aluminium-alloy
plates are used have been adopted in Ameri-
can mines, and have given great satisfac-
tion. The weight has been reduced by 46
p.c., enabling the trucks to be made larger,
with a reduction in tramming costs—a heavy
charge in mining.
Plans are in hand for the erection of an
-electrolytic zinc refinery at Magdeburg
(Germany) with an initial output of 40,000
tons of zinc p.a., to be increased to 60,000
tons later. The aim is to stop imports of
electrolytic zinc.
Questions answered.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
l\ly brother and I are sole proprietors of
a large emporium carrying on a prosperous
retail drapery business. We are both young
—one aged 30 {unmarried), the other 27
vjust married). Our estate is unencum-
bered, and our banking account is satisfac-
tory. Ts there any earthly necessity for
61 3399° r us assurance?
Life _ assurance, if taken with a sound
°“ Ce . ls one of the safest and most reli-
able forms of investment. For a married
man it partly, indemnifies his wife against
financial worries should she lose her hus-
band; for a bachelor an endowment policy
is assurance against want in old age—and,
anyway, he is liable to risk marriage. As a
policy grows older its cash value grows quite
substantially too. No matter how prosperous
your business is at the moment, it may not
always be so, and the chances are that a life
omce will weather >a.ny storms much better.
Both of you are young enough and well
enough off to take the best advantage of life
assurance.
During November, 1931, I received some
money from TJ.S.A. in dollars. The exchange
worked out at, £26 6s. 6d. per $lOO. Re
cently / received more money from America ,
but this time the exchange was £35 is. 9d.’
Tier $lOO. As in both instances England was
off the gold standard, please tell me why our
exchange has fluctuated so much during that
period in TJ.5.A. —3384.
. The increase in your “exchange premium”
is all due to the depreciation of sterling.
I hough our £1 in relation to £1 sterling is
at present fixed at £I2SA. to £IOOS., ster-
AnoL ot J,. th V do , l . lar is not fixed - On Nov. 5,
Idol, the English pound was worth $3.71;
last week it was worth only $3.18. Offset
against that, in your case, was the reduction
in December, 1931, 0 f the Australia/London
exchange from £l3O to £125.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
S.S.M.: (1) The A.M.P. A certain amount of
taxes, but not all, is included in the figures of
the other. (2) The same; only the A.M.P. has
little, if any, on seconds. (3) City Mutual. (4)
Cannot say. (5) Do not know without extensive
investigation. (6) They all show foreclosures sepa-
rately, some under the head of “properties” 17)
No. (8) No.


AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET
OF THE
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
30th SEPTEMBER, 1932
LIABILITIES.
Notes in cir-
culation .. £564,772 10 0
Deposits, Accrued
Interest and
Rebate .. 83,943,595 0 6
£84,508,367 10 6
Bills Payable and other Liabilities
(which include Reserves held for
Doubtful Debts and other Con-
tingencies) .. .. . . 5,164,381 5 0
Paid-up Capi-
tal .. £8,780,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 6,150,000 0 0
Profit and L055£575,929
£575,929 16 5
Less Interim
Dividends to
30th June,
1932
£351,200 0 0
£224,729 16 5
15,154,729 16 5
£104,827,478 11 II
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits, as per
Contra 2,697,636 14 1
£107.525,115 6 0
ASSETS;
Coin, Bullion,
G o vernment
Legal Tender
Notes an d
Cash at
Bankers ..£11,400,865
Notes of Other
Banks
Money at short
call in London 490,000 0 0
S h o r t-dated
Treasury Bills—
British, Aus-
tralian and
New Zealand
Investments —
Government
Securities ..
Municipal
and other
Securities ..
Due hy other
Banks
Bills Receivable
in London
and Remit-
tances i n
transit
2 2
28,337 15 0
13,468,333 0 0
7,656,028 16 10
597,123 0 0
684,854 19 3
3,654,906 14 2
£37,980,449 7 5
Bills Discounted and Loans and
Advances to Customers , ..
Bank Premises ..
64,547,029
2,300,000
£104,827,478 11 11
Liabilities of Customers and others
on Letters of Credit, as per
contra .. .. .. .. 2,697,636 14 1
£107,525,115 6 0
PROFIT AND LOSS, 30th SEPTEMBER, 1932.
To Interim Dividends as under, paid
in terms of Clause 105 of Deed
of Settlement out of the Year’s
Profits:—
For Quarter ended—
31st Dee., 1931, at 0/- per share
Australian currency .. ..£131,700 0
31st March, 1932, at 5/- per share
Australian currency . . .. 109,750 0
30th June, 1932, at 5/- per share
Australian currency .. ~ 109,750 0
£351,200 0
UnUmce proposed to be
dealt with as follows: —■
To Quarter’s Dividend
to 30th Sep-
tember, 1932, at
the rate of 5/- per
'share Australian
currency .. .. £109,750 0 0
To Balance carried
forward,. ..£114,979 10 5
0
0
0
0
224,729 16 5
By Amount from last Account ..£112,903 0
„ Balance of Year’s Profits after
deducting 1 Rebate on Current
Bills, Interest on Deposits, pay-
ing Income, Land and other
Taxes amounting to £289,038/7/8,
reducing valuation of Bunk
Premises, providing for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, and fluctuations
in the value of Investment
Securities, and including re-
coveries from Debts previously
written off as bad .. .. 462,966 16
£575,929 16
RESERVE FUND, 30th SEPTEMBER, 1932.
To Balance (used in the business
of the Bank) £6,150,000 0 0
£6,150,000 0 0
U’.>-
A. C, DAVIDSON, General Manager.
F. D. HOBBS, Chief Accountant.
VENOUR NATHAN \
W. E. SOUTHERDENJ
Auditors.
Audited, 17th -November, 193
No. 74
COWBOY CHAPS
ALSO USEFUL IN PRICKLY-PEAR COUNTRY.
No. 74—Fringed Chaps, correctly cuf from special
chap leather, dark-brown in color, with shaped belt.
Inside or outside pockets 78/6
No. 75 —As above, but without fringe 70/-
No. 76 —Winged Chaps. Very comfortable to wear,
and with basket-stamped belt 97/6
Postage on chaps: N.S.W., 1/6; Q., Vic., 2/6.
When ordering, send waist, inside leg and thigh
measure.
Cowboy Boots, in black kip, with fancy stitched
legs. Per pair # . 77/6
Postage: N.S.W., 1/6; Q., Vic., 2/6.
WE STAND ALONE FOR COWBOY SADDLES.
We have them made in the latest style from £ll/10/-.
Write for our catalogue, No. 329, of Australian
and Texas saddlery.
STATION STOCK SADDLES
“THE STOCKRIDER”—No. 130.—An inexpensive
saddle for station work, has firm capped kneepads
and pigskin seat. Price, £5/2/6 bare. Leathers 6/-,
Girth 5/-, and good N.P. Irons 6/6. Complete £6.
Freight paid for cash to any N.S.W. railway station.
Station Stockwhips, from . . 19/6
EVERY HORSE-USER SHOULD HAVE OUR CATALOGUE No. 329
WALTHER & STEVENSON Ltd.
395
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, M 2 Georg*
Street, Sydney; or from any branch
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (NZ )’
QUAINT PEOPLE
-QUAINT CUSTOMS IN
m
on)
It
m
\*
It is from Old Quebec
that you commence the
short and sheltered Atlan-
tic crossing in an “ Em-
press ” or “ Duchess ’*
Steamer.
32/14
The Chateau
Frontenac
famousC.P.R.
Hotel in Old
Quebec.
OldQuebee
On the way
to ENGLAND
What a time you’ll have in
Quebec. The Old Town below
the Chateau will take you back
300 years with its 17th century
streets and shops and French-
speaking people.
Drive out into the picturesque
country along the great river
—poplar lined roads oxen
ploughing in the fields —old white
farm houses grand’mkre sitting
in the sun crooning to the
whir-r-r of her spinning wheel.
Of course you will accept her
invitation to the
Then back to the Chateau for a
wonderful dinner and an evening of
gaiety. Few travellers pass
Old Quebec —there is so much
that is new and different in
this bit of ancient Britanny
in the New World. Write for
details and booklets.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 Georg,e Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN
PACIF I C
World’s Greatest Travel System
TRAINS - HOTELS - STEAMSHIPS
Q
Ten seconds
to strop.
Ten seconds
to clean.
The VALET
Razor Strop & Blade form
the PERFECT SHAVING
PARTNERSHIP
Perfect shaving. Quicker
shaving. More economical
shaving. That’s what the
“VALET” self-stropping
razor means to you. Save
time, save money. Shave
with a “VALET.”
British Made —of all dealers
Sets from 5/- to 65/-
•4
VALET
Safety' Razor
Managing Agents for Australia ; —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIMITED,
181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sr
if any illustration in "THE BULLETIN ’
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Chocolate Soldier”
Royal “Autumn Crocus”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royai “Dorothy”
King’s “The Silver Cord”
State Movies and Talkies
“Slow Murder: A Tragedy”
From a cricket point of view, so The
Showman was assured by a bystander in no
uncertain terms, the match England v. Aus-
tralia at the M.C.C. Ground was a very dull
display, but the positions taken up by the
fieldsmen while Mr. Maurice Leyland was
having a sort of movable trellis without
any roses on it shifted to suit him were full
of unconscious grace and natural beauty.
Fig. 1.
Herbert Sutcliffe took four hours to score
87 runs. At one period the vast crowd was
swept by a wave of excitement, expressed in
a deep roar of approval or indignation, it
was difficult to say which. The Showman
was informed that the reason for this demon-
stration was that Sutcliffe had rolled up his
sleeves. One wondered how the intrepid
announcer who had taken on the job of
broadcasting the match stroke by stroke got
on. Something like this, presumably:
“Well, listeners, the great day has arrived.
It looks as if the crowd must be close to
40.000. Don Brad-
man, our Don, is,
of course, the
magnet that has
drawn this vast
concourse to the
M.C.C. to-day, but
Mr. Bradman is
not yet at the
wicket. No, Mr.
Sutcliffe is there
at present. He is
taking block. A
good recipe for
beef or mutton
lobscaus: Mince,
not too finely,
some cold roast
Fig. 2.
beef or mutton. Chop the bones and
put them in a saucepan with six potatoes
peeled and sliced, one onion, also sliced,
some pepper and salt; of these make a
gravy. When the potatoes are completely
incorporated with the gravy, take out the
bones and put in the meat; stew the whole
together for an hour and serve immediately.
Mr. Sutcliffe has just missed that one. Do
you know that silk was first brought from
India a'.d. 274. that the publication of banns
of marriage commenced a.d. 1210, that a
Fig. 3.
queen bee produces
100.000 eggs in a season,
that the average weight
of a man’s brain is
while a woman’s
is only 21b. Tloz., and
that cabbages and
carrots , were unknown
before a.d. 1547? You
didn’t? Well, that just
shows how educational
a cricket match can be.
“Having run one off a
bye, Mr. Sutcliffe is
now facing the towering,
fair-haired Mr. Nagel,
the far-famed Victorian
bowler. Mr. Sutcliffe is
taking block. In danc-
ing the schottiselie the
gentleman holds the lady
precisely as in the
polka. Beginning with
the left foot, he slides it forward, then brings
up the right foot to the place of the left,
slides the left foot forward, and springs or
hops on this foot. This movement is repeated
to the right. He begins with the right foot,
slides it forward, brings up the le’ft foot to
the place of the right foot, slides the right
foot forward again,. and hops upon it. The
gentleman springs twice. on the left foot,
turning half round ; twice on - the right foot;
twice ,<encore on the left foot, turning half
round; and again twice on the right foot,
turning half round. Beginning again, he
proceeds as before. The lady begins with
the right foot, and her step is the
same in principle as the gentleman’s. Vary,
by a reverse turn,
or by going in a
straight line round
the room. Double,
if you like, each
part, by giving
four bars to the
first part and
four bars to the
second part. The
time may be stated
as precisely the
same as the polka;
but let it not be
forgotten that the
schottjsche ought
to be danced much
slower. Mr. Sut-
cliffe missed that one. Do you know
that ITontevrault is a small town in
the department of Maine-et-Loire, France,
35 miles s.-e. of Angers? It was formerly
the seat of a celebrated abbey, the nucleus
of the rich, influential order of Fontevrault,
founded by a Breton monk, Robert d’Arhissal.
in 1099. The rule of the order was that of
Benedict, but the monks were placed under
abbesses of illustrious family. In the eight-
eenth century it had lost much of its wealth
and power, but 'even at the time of the French
Revolution, when it was abolished, it held
57 priories. The abbey is now occupied as
a central prison. At Fontevrault are the
tombs of the English Henry the Second, of
his queen, Eleanor of Guienne, and of Rich-
ard the First. Population (1872), 696. Mr.
Nagel has just sent down a short one. Mr.
Sutcliffe lias hit it. No, it has hit him. It
has hit him on the foot. The foot, listeners,
is formed of (1) the tarsus, (2) the meta-
tarsus, and (3) the phalanges. The great
toe has only two phalanges, and this is one
of the peculiarities which distinguish the
foot of man from that of the ape. Well,
listeners, Mr. Sutcliffe missed that one. _lt
was the last of the over. They are changing
bowlers and that, listeners, gives me an
opportunity of telling you how beautiful is
the scene before me. How beautiful! The
words recall that'exquisite passage from the
Song of Solomon, chap, seven: ‘How beauti-
ful are thv feet with shoes, O prince’s
daughter! The joints of thy thighs are like
jewels, the work of the hands of a cunning
workman.’ There
is a lot more of
it, but on that
note I will now
close temporarily,
as the players
are coming in for
luncheon.”
If the broad-
cast wasn’t some-
thing like that it
is difficult to
imagine what else
it was like. Of
course, the an-
nouncer may have
livened Sutcliffe’s
display up a bit
by singing the pathetic Hungarian love ballad
entitled “My Goil Works in the Bottle
Works and They Say She Is a Corker”; and
by telling the one about the fowl who thought
it had laid an egg and turned round and
saw a golf ball and lost confidence in itself.
Anyway the broadcaster must have been a
genius if he suc-
ceeded in making
that performance
at the M.C.C. sound
like a dramatic
entertainment.
The Showman’s
way home took him
amidst the statuary
in the Fitzroy
Gardens, aboul
which a fresh con-
troversy lias broken
out in the news-
papers. Cr. Stap-
ley says they are
a disgrace to Bat-
man’s fair city, but
Paul Montford says
there is nothing-
wrong with them,
Fig. 5.
only they want restoring -or improving.
With the M.C.C. drama still in mind, a
few suggestions are offered, with diagrams
appended. Fig. 1 shows the Aphrodite
pedestal extended to accommodate a group
showing three English fieldsmen missing a
chance from Bradman when the Bowral
Boy’s score stands at seven. Aphrodite
could be left much as she is, to symbolise
the excitement in the women’s stand. In
“Useful to
long-off.”
Fig. 2, Mr. Dwyer, Dr.
Dolling and Mr. Johnson
are represented consulting
the Venus Genetrix with
regard to the final Test
selections. Fig. 3 shows
how easily the Antinous
could be adapted to repre-
sent Boy Bradman trans-
mitting his opinion of his
last stroke per portable
wireless station to a nation-
wide network of evening
newspapers. Fig. 4 is a
group of cricketers of the
future, when, the import-
ance of the game having
been properly realised,
players have been bred
eugenifcally for specialised functions, as they
ought to be. From left to right: a ’first slip
with body capable of indefinite perpendicular
extension; a bowler with abnormally
developed right arm (some crabs already have
this peculiarity) ; batsman with legs adapted
for running between wickets. The figure on
small pedestal is a Dignified Barracker, as
Mr. Warner would like him. The “River
God” (Fig. 5) could be left as he is, as future
generations will no doubt interpret him as an
English long-on waiting to catch Bradman.
The beard will be in order unless shaving is
permitted on the field in those days. The
remaining picture is merely an idea culled
from the statuary which might be useful to
long-off or fine-leg deep when the play is on
the lines of what it was in Melbourne.
Fig. 4.
Sydney Howard’s “The Silver Cord,” at
Melbourne King’s, is a warning to mothers
and children. It is exclusively concerned
with what is known in psycho-analytic
circles as the CEdipus complex. GEdipus was
a chap who brought a pestilence on Thebes
by inadvertently marrying his mother
Jocasta. When a soothsayer revealed the
truth, in his horror ffidipus put out his own
eyes and Jocasta hanged herself. The story
has been used as a convenient allegory for
the state of things where mothers, having
been cheated of their husbands’ affection,
transfer their regard and their possessive
instinct to their male offspring, thus unfit-
ting them for life’s battle.
Sydney Howard has accepted the Freudian
view of the complex and written his play
very efficiently around it. The mother had
a very unsatisfactory time with her hus-
band and lost him after eight years of mar-
riage. She brings up her sons. David and
Robert, to be absolutely dependent on her.
As she has a large fortune she can do this
very effectively. David and Robert come
of age, and begin to look around them.
Robert goes after loose women with a feel-
ing of repugnance, but later gets engaged
to a very nice girl called Hester, without
being sure he loves her. David falls
genuinely in love with Christina, a research
worker in biology, whom he meets in Ger-
many, distance lending disenchantment to the
image of his mother, who lives in America.
David, with his wife about to have a baby,
arrives home, where Hester, Robert’s fiancee
is also on a visit. The mother promptly sets
to work, with Machiavellian subtlety, to
separate the couples. She succeeds in mak-
ing Hester throw herself, or fall into, a pond,
from which she is rescued with difficulty.
Then Hester goes off, leaving the mother in
full possession of Robert. Christina, how-
ever, is a different proposition. She is the
only person in the play who understands the
position, and after psycho-analysing David,
Robert and their mother she invites David
to choose between his wife and his maternal
progenitor. David chooses his wife and the
mother is left with a partial, victory in the
shape of the helpless Robert.
The play makes its points firmly and com-
pletely. Its chief fault is the tendency of the
author to use the dialogue to explain things
to the audience. Moreover, Mr. Howard,
ably assisted by Dame Sybil Thorndike,
makes the mother such a transparent fool
that it is difficult to believe that her sons
would not have seen through her, in. which
case they would have dominated her instead
of her dominating them. This, however, may
be partly Dame Thorndike’s responsibility.
Her inveterate habit of making realistic
characters slightly skittish has full play and
her mannerisms sometimes look as out of
place as a fur coat on a rubber planter.
However, Dame Sybil’s performance has the
merit of making the tragedy of the sons more
poignant. As the sons, Atholl Fleming and
Donald Eccles compel sympathy, and Phyllis
Best and Zillah Carter have their share in
creating that generous emotion. Although
Miss Carter affects the style of elocution
favored by small girls at school break-ups,
she gives the impression of feeling her part,
and on the opening night the audience were
her enthusiastic partners.
* * #
Sonia Revid, a little Russian dancer from
Berlin, performed at the Central Hall, Mel-
bourne, on Saturday before a large and
often awestruck audience. Her dancing was
unlike any previously seen in Melbourne,
including Pavlova’s. She selected for accom-
paniment the simplest of classical composers,
such as Schubert and Bach, but she didn’t
commit the impertinence of trying to inter-
pret them, which is as silly as trying to
paint music. She used them as nothing
more than timekeeper’s, while her beautiful
body was a violin on which were played
silent harmonies. She danced with her face
as well as other portions of her anatomy,
and received the applause with the impas-
sivity of a Buddha. “Timidity” was danced
without music; it suggested a convolvulus
opening to the sun and then shutting up
again. The audience gazed at this enchanting
piece of human botany spellbound. The
Slavic measures were gay and danced in
trousers. There is so much variety in the
lady that it was hardly noticed that the
programme was entirely Miss Revid.
Continuing its policy of revivals, the Firm
dug down through various theatrical strata
and at a depth of 45 years unearthed
“Dorothy,” which was presented in triumph
at Melb. Royal on Saturday to a moderate
audience. The part of Dorothy Bantam was
a very charming portrait of Marie Bremner.
Darnton and Stroud were two fine, upstand-
ing young men, otherwise undistinguished.
The clowning of Menzies was greeted with
shouts of laughter; that actor was thoroughly
at home as Lurcher and his future as a
panto, dame should be assured, if his dis-
appearance'as an artist is regretted. Grace
Crotty as Mrs. Privett was the feminine
counterpart of Menzies.
# * #
The Freudian system of psychology, which
promised at first blush to do for medical
science what the calculus has done for
mathematics, hasn’t, after all, added much
to our knowledge of the springs of human
conduct. - When alb the results are tabulated
and compared and dissected the answer they
give is usually of a sort which will be found
to be put very pithily somewhere in the Old
Testament. Harrison Owen, the very skilful
author of “Dr. Pygmalion,” played at Sydney
Cri on Saturday by Margaret Rawlings
and her co., presents an exponent of the
theory, Dr. Garnett, who deduced from his
studies that every woman is at heart a rake
and made it his way of life to commercialise
this not very original hypothesis.
The characters of the play are drawn
from a society which is fin de siecle, as
Nordau uses the term, or, in other words,
rotting with boredom. Their cynicism l is
expressed in clever phrases, of which Mr.
Owen is an adroit manufacturer, and the
action of the play circles round to its start-
ing point without having done more than to
scratch some very small shreds of sophistica-
tion off the deeply-crusted souls of the
principal characters.
Barry Iv. Barnes, as the doctor who makes
his women patients fall in love with him,
and Miss Rawlings, as his most attractive
patient, are ideally cast, and the futuristic
settings of some of the scenes are cleverly
designed—Norah Cazabon, of Sydney, did
these. Saturday night’s audience enjoyed
every minute of the production.
* •¥ *
Latest addition to Sydney’s am. dram,
socs. is the Socialisation Drama and Art
Ovqup. which opened its on veer at Newtown
with two plays. “The Price of Coal,” a
one-acter by Brigliouse, centres in a mine
disaster. Helen Troy and James Aitken
took leading parts, but were inaudible most
of the time. O’Casey’s “The Shadow of a
Gunman,” which followed, was better. Harry
J. French was a monotonous Davoren, but
most of the other players managed a musi-
cal brogue. Arthur J. Reardon relieved the
agony as Seumas the pedlar, and Marcia
Silvey put a lot of life into the part of
Mrs. Grigson. Not the worst first-perform-
ance this Page has suffered- under, by a
long chalk.
* *
The New Sydney Rep. Soc.’s latest experi-
ment was a modern-dress version of “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream.” Gene Black-
more as Helena lent some semblance of
dignity and reality to the play and Virginia
Coyle was bright as Puck.
* * H-
The N. S. Wales Postal Institute Dram.
Soc.’s performance of “Her Shop” opened
rather tamely, but was redeemed by a really
excellent third act. Acting honors went to
Katherine Lee, Rita Rowe and W. H.
Gibson, and Joe Cahill was at home with
the Scottish dialect.
Tom Tracy, who went touring with the
Thorndike-Casson co., produced Shaw’s “You
Never Can Tell” for Perth Repertory Chib’s
three-night season. Norman Wingrove, who
enjoyed himself as the dentist Valentine,
had the latest in dental chairs and side-
fastening starched coats. Phil Shappere was
the man who suffered at his hands. Mar-
garet Paton and Jean Hemy played Gloria
and Dolly, and Tess Nunn was their mother.
Gerald Ruse had a part to suit him as the
chirpy waiter.
The Palette.
The Felton Bequest committee has decided
to send Bernard Hall, the Vic. Nat. Gallery
director, to Europe to dig out some worthy
works of art. It will not be Hall’s first
visit. He was sent to the Cold World 25
years ago and came back with a number of
unimportant pictures but also with some of
the finest treasures in the national collec-
tion. The wonderful Rodin statuary was
his selection and was the result of a visit
to the sculptor’s studio.
An etching, to be worthy of praise, must
be a lot more than a faithful engraving of
a line drawing. Almost all the exhibitors in
the Australian Painter-Etchers’ Society’s
show at the Macleod Gallery can pass muster
as engravers, but they are not equally suc-
cessful as etchers. Cedric Emanuel, who
loves old boatsheds, gets, in “Sunlight and
Shade” and a “Sunny Morning,” the illusion
of golden light that is one of the available
charms of the suitably selected and treated
subject. Jolin Sliirlow, in “Prince’s Bridge,
1932.” produces an architectural study that
couldn’t have been made quite so effective
in any other medium. In aquatints success
has been more generally attained. H. R.
Gallop, John Goodchild, Vernon Ililder,
Squire Morgan, Sidney Walker and Mal-
colm Warner have achieved rich ■ effects.
The woodcuts of L. Roy Davies are decora-
tively charming, and Douglas Pratt puts his
own etchings in the shade with a trio of
pencil drawings which say everything that
is to be said much more easily and elegantly.
Poverty Point
“Cauboy” : Hugo Larsen, the ex-submarine
cable engineer who introduced Szigeti to
Australia, is bringing a complete opera co.
from the San Carlo Theatre, Naples, to
open in Sydney in March. If Larsen is as
good a picker of operatic singers as he is
of concert virtuosi the season should be a
corker.
“Norbell”: I don’t believe “Cauboy’s”
assertion (B. 23/11/’32) that Datas, the
vaudeville “memory man,” has sold his brain
to King’s College Hospital for - £lOOO, nor
do I believe that 28 years ago he sold it to
American doctors for £lO,OOO. In fact, I
don’t believe any press-agent yarns about
bequests or sales of posthumous anatomy,
No man has a property in any part of his
body after death. He may will away his old
boots, but he may not so dispose of any part
of himself. Datasis brain would not be
worth £l, anyhow, after he is dead. Prof.
Wood Jones, of Melbourne Uni., assures me
that neither by gross size nor by convolu-
tions can anyone tell the brain of a
specially-distinguished individual from that
of a person of normal intelligence. When
Melba died it was said that her larynx had
been “bequeathed” to the Uni. She couldn’t
do that, nor did the faculty particularly
want to acquire it.
“Barker”: Two Australian circus girls
have made names for themselves in the U.S.A.
—May Wirth and Vera Bruce, who hails
from Adelaide. The latter, thanks to a boom
in circus talkies, has been finding plenty of
engagements in Hollywood, where she offi-
ciates as a “trapeze ghost.” She did Marion
Davies’s stunts in M.-G.-M.’s “Polly of the
Circus,” and was in “Variety” and “Hell’s
Angels.”
“Lever de Rideau”: Recent stage spec-
tacles have been boomed as the greatest ever
presented in Australia, but theatregoers who
remember the days of Bland Holt laugh at
the claim. In one racing drama staged at
Melbourne Royal the resourceful producer
had 15 horses with real turf , to gallop on.
The turf was made by planting seed on a
carpet, the grass growing up through a hes-
sian cover. The favorite was lathered with
soap to give the impression that he had been
tearing round with the others, but was kept
offstage for the finish. The crowd of stage
racegoers ran into hundreds and the back
of the theatre looked like Flemington saddling
paddock. Holt took the part of the favorite’s
trainer and shouted his teeth out on to the
boards on the opening evening, as Faversham
did later at the Comedy. The show ran for
23 weeks in Melbourne and Sydney.
“Cauboy”: The latest infant prodigy to
astonish London is Yehudi Menuhin, the
15-year-old American violinist. At the
Albert Hall recently he was soloist with the
Philharmonic Orchestra in a performance of
Elgar’s B minor concerto, conducted by the
composer. After the performance Yehudi
appeared, pushing the 75-year-old composer
before him. Menuhin, who started his
meteoric career at the age of 10, may visit
Australia next year.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Australian Packing
“Tomyodai” : Up here at Broome (W.A.)
a large proportion of the shore folks' food,
and practically everything except flour, rice,
sugar, potatoes and onions consumed by the
sea-going members of the community, comes
out of tins. After years of experience with
pearling fleets in Australian, Dutch East
Indian and Manila waters I say unhesitat-
ingly that Australian jams, soups, fruits,
pines, meats, vegetables, milk, butter, cakes
and biscuits are better packed, truer to
label, more attractive in appearance and
open up in a more wholesome condition
than those of the great majority of their
competitors and are the equal of any of
them. Australian (tinfoil) packets of cheese
are far and away better than the European
tinned article available here,
“Taviuni” (B. 24/8/”32), who asperses
Australian rice, has had a very different
experience from my own. I have found
Australian rice equal to the best Japanese,
which costs just twice as much, and infi-
nitely superior to the Rangoon, Siamese
and Singapore products. “Taviuni” com-
plains that “when cooked it is mushy and
will not keep good even for a few hours.”
All rice goes mushy if overcooked. Through-
out “the East” there is a saying, “Nasi
sudah menjadi bubor” —literally “The rice
has been overcooked until it is mushy,”
which in everyday conversation means that
things have gone wrong through careless-
ness. No cooked rice will keep in a hot,
steamy climate, but Australian rice will
keep longer than any other I know of.
Out on the pearling boats here the rice
cooked at 7 a.m. serves both breakfast and
luncheon. With the Singapore and Rangoon
rice on issue a few years ago, this was quite
impossible; rice cooked at 7 a.m.'was no
good by a little after 9 a.m.
Wool in Construction Works
Experiments in the use of inferior wool
for roadmaking are being carried out by
the N.S.W. Department of Transport on
the Garah-Boomi-road, under the super-
vision of Divisional Engineer Down. The
department has no experience of the use of
wool for roads, but it is known that suc-
cessful experiments have been carried out
with cotton in the southern States of
America. The cotton was found to bind the
surface and prevent corrugations, while it
prevented the shoulders of the road from
breaking away, and thus reduced mainten-
ance costs. Ten bales of wool, purchased
locally at 2d. per pound, is being used in
the N.S.W. experiment. The price paid is
better than the graziers would have netted
by sending it to the Sydney sales.
With inferior wool practically valueless
at present, it seems it might be used for
other purposes besides roadmaking. Mixed
with cement it would make good fibrous
sheets, and might, even be added to clay for
brick-making. It is slow burning and the
grease content makes it almost waterproof.
Its tensile strength and resiliency should
also be in its favor.
The English in the old days realised the
value of staple for building-foundations in
swampy areas. Along the Thames many
houses are built on a foundation of fleece
wool; and at Bideford there is a bridge
built on a wool foundation. This bridge
has lasted several centuries and is still firm.
Is Wool Doomed?
Dear Bulletin, —The indifference of my
brother woolgrowers towards new textile dis-
coveries and their obstinacy in refusing
to fight the rivals with their own weapons
seems to me unwise. It is all very well
to say wool has peculiar qualities, such
as elasticity, softness of handle and warmth,
which the others have not, or in a small
degree only; there is always the possibility
of chemists stumbling on a material that may
be indistinguishable from natural wool. Any-
how, every new discovery of this kind cuts,
into the use of woollen articles. The basic
material of most of them, like artificial silk,
rayon, celanese, etc., is cellulose; and cellu-
lose can be produced in practically unlimited
quantities and at a very low cost.. It was
disclosed in the Balfour Committee’s Survey
of Textile Industries, published in 1925, how
producers of artificial silk controlled the
industry through close co-operation in every
country; wasteful competition was cut out
and prices stabilised on a profit-making level.
If wool is to be saved from the menace of
cheap textiles, there is urgent need of a close
co-operation of growers, brokers and manu-
facturers —they are all in the same boat —
and it will have to be done internationally.
At the Imperial Wool Conference in Mel-
bourne 18 months ago, we had the chance of
doing something along these lines, but the
delegates ivere too interested in tremendous
trifles to look over the fence. What are we
really doing in research work? Are we as
busy as our rivals ? I know some of the local
mills are turning out delightful summer
fabrics, but the general public doesn’t know
it. Why not tell them? Why not advertise
and not fossilise? Are distributors’ prices
too high? It’s up to the intelligentsia of the
wool industry to prod into action the old Rip
Van Winkles who arc wrecking it.—Yours
etc., T. J. A. Fitzpatrick.
The N.S.W. Graziers’ Association
Dear Bulletin,— l can only judge by his
silence that Mr. J. W. Allen, the secretary
of the Graziers’ Association of N. S. Wales,
is not prepared to further defend Rule 34 of
his association. But I cannot let it rest
at that, because a fundamental principle,
vital to the woolgrower and through him to
the industry, is at stake. Within an execu-
tive council which is exercising its authority
to speak for the woolgrowers, this rule cuts
clean through the principles of democratic
representation and majority rule. No sur-
prise, therefore, need be occasioned by the
disclosure of the fact that of the 30,000
woolgrowers of the State less than 30 p.c.
recognise the right of the rule to function
as it does to-day; the other 70 p.c. take
the only alternative left to them and remain
outside. To-day, more than at any other
time, the right of representation is fraught
with significance for every woolgrower in
Australia. In the circumstance, has the
rule a right to still operate?—Yours,
H’arold Sims.
Advertising in “the East”
“Barangkali”: If Australia is ever to do a
big trade in “the East,’’ the people we must
look to are the natives. Certainly we shall
get European custom, but the natives must
be our main consumers —there are not
enough of the others. Therefore, the native
being almost always poor, our goods must
be packed in smalf quantities. Generally
speaking, articles that sell for about 40
cents (= Is.) are most in demand, and
American trading firms are concentrating on
such lines. Wise advertising must play
an important part. In Singapore alone there
are 10 daily papers—three English, two
Malay, three Chinese and two Japanese.
Prices for space are not high, but good loca-
tions are not easy to procure. All adver-
tising should be in the vernacular (except,
of course, in the English publications), and
every brand or “chop” should be easily
translatable into the various languages, the
name “Australia” getting prominence. Illus-
trations should, if possible, be of a humorous
nature and simple, because the native is a
simple soul who dearly loves to get some
amusement out of life, even if it is from the
wrapping around his dried prunes. Paper
bags supplied to retailers offer a wonderfully
effective method of advertising, because
paper bags are very scarce in “the East”
and are often treasured for weeks in the
poorer homes, especially if they bear an
amusing illustration.
Something Like Service
“Deco”: Most Australians would like to
see Australian steamers keeping a firm grip
on the Pacific trade, but in order to do it
antiquated, take-it-or-leave-it methods must
be scrapped. Calling at the booking office
of a local co., and explaining that his ailing-
child required fresh milk daily, a friend
asked what arrangements could be made to
ensure suplies on board. H'e was told that
nothing could be guaranteed, but whatever
was available the child would have. My
friend then visited the American co.’s office
and explained his requirements in exactly
the same way. A clerk immediately offered
to take him to the chief steward. That
officer asked the address of the prospective
passenger’s milkman, and promised to
arrange for ample supplies, so that the
child would have the same milk as she had
been accustomed to. Need one ask which
ship the family travelled by?
The Wool-buyer’s Draft
Dear Bulletin, —In commenting upon
the Wool Commivtee’s report you draw atten-
tion to the practice of allowing the buyer
lib. of wool per hundredweight sold to him.
The committee and The Bulletin appear
to think that the buyer gets this wool for
nothing. The position is that the buyer
roughly gives an extra 1 p.c. on account of
the draft allowance. He does not do this
consciously, but as a result of being trained
to judge wool; with the draft, allowance in-
eluded in the conditions of sale. Some
firms actually add to the • price they can
pay for wool under the hammer 1.-112th of
it,‘but the majority prefer the older method
of taking the allowance into consideration
when estimating, the yield ot wool—that is,
how much scoured they can get fiom the
greasy. It follows that if the draft were
abolished buyers would have to adjust their
yields to the new conditions or under-yields
of purchases would result. Similarly those
firms which add the fraction of a penny
wliich the draft justifies would take it off,
and the net result to the glower would be
the same as at present. It has been con-
tended by representatives of the graziers
that iii practice the buyers would not mnkc
that allowance in their estimates of yield;
but should buyers fail to make the adjust-
itThis P Su h ti»S
thev would be in danger of losing their posi-
they would be m danger or losing rnen posi
What opposition comes from buyers to any
change is not based on the assumption that
HiP draft allowance gives to them somethin"-
(ordotting"SteSKKS
caused through a change-over from tradi-
tional and well-established methods of valu-
ing to one perhaps more logical but whose
operation would not affect in the slightest
the real position as between buyer and
l ior Vnnrc n, VTn 4 « C\mptuu i
seller. 1 ours, David A, 8. Campbell.
, n „
Cairns as a Port or Call
There is a movement at Cairns (N.Q.)
to get overseas vessels to call there, and a
committee is gathering data. Before the
war the 8.1. boats put in there, and, had
the war not intervened, Cairns to-day might
have been as important as a first port of
call on the eastern seaboard of Australia
as Fremantle is on the west It is more
sequenri? “hips n °tradi ong 0 ng through ' Torres
Strait-would not be voyaging out of their
routes by calling at Cairns first, or, when
leaving Australian waters, by calling there
after leaving Townsville.
If a small, 10-mile light were placed at
Euston Reef, ships from American ports,
the Solomons, Fiji, etc., would also be able
to enter coastal waters after nightfall at
Cairns. These vessels, too. would not need
to steam down to Townsville to tranship
cargo for . Cairns or lift cargo from Cairns
that had travelled there by train or coastal
steamer.
The harbor is quite suitable for overseas
shipping. It is well sheltered, deep and
wide. The Harbor Board lias pursued a
steady policy of making it an overseas port;
they have about 1500 feet of straight con-
crete wharfage, supplied with electric cranes,
sugar elevators, log ramps, storage sheds, etc.
Also, there is 400 feet of a specially-con-
structed overseas wharf.
“Gouge”: The rubber planter in Papua,
with his product below 2d. per pound, is in
danger. Only the Commonwealth’s four-
penny preferential tariff has enabled him to
carry on. But production costs have thus
far been brought down by cutting mainten-
ance to the bone, and this policy is reacting
in the depreciation of his assets. If the
interests concerned got together _ and organ-
ised the industry in the two principal pro-
ducing districts a substantial saving might
be made. The temporary security which the
tariff gives is being used merely as a means
to enable planters to carry on under ineffi-
cient methods.
# =|s =!= sit
In Melbourne, according to the president
of the Building Industry Congress, there is
a shortage of 9000 houses. There probably
ought to be a shortage; but, since in thou-'
sands of instances several families share one
tenement, the “To Let” sign still litters the
suburban landscape. Another movement
in progress in every city helps to keep the
“To Let” printer busy; unemployed and
men whose business has evaporated are going
out in droves to farms and farmlets. One
agent in the Parramatta (Sydney) district
says he can count up over 300 of this class
who have come into his territory during
1932. In most cases in that district they
run a few fowls, and the week-end motor-
ist who picks up his supplies at wayside
stalls is their Father Christmas.
* * * *
“Frig”: Pipes are now made in Q. from
tulip plum and satinay. They are silver-
mounted with a vulcanite inouthpipo, well
made and nicely polished. They draw freely
and are cool to smoke; indeed the only
warmth I have discovered in mine is the
warmth of the comfort it gives me.
* * * *
“Grabben Gullen”: “Sam Slocum" (B.
2/11/’32), who had £GI 17s. left for 11
weeks’ work shearing, after paying to be
housed and fed, has a lot to cry about —I
don’t think! I know graziers who get little
more than that as a year’s sustenance
allowance for running the properties they
are supposed to own. It is my tip Sam
will work for less yet.
THE NEW SYSTEM OF REWARDS.
“The Federal Government refuses to give a bounty on wheat produced, but will distribute £2,000,000 to inligent farmers."
SCHOOLMASTER LYONS: “Boys who have got their sums wrong will get prizes to encourage them. Those who have
got theirs right won’t get anything—they don’t need encouragement.”


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital .. .. .. .. £241,341
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . . . . £3,660,000
Total Reserves approximately . . . . . , . . , . £900,000
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately . . £500,000
Area Planted . . . . . . . , . . . , 144,626 Acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths.House, Queen Street, Brisbane,
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches thr.oughout'/New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong, San Francisco, Vancouver and Paris.
é
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ABORIGINALIES
THE TOURIST.
DAVE (in Egypt) : “Don’t seem enough traffic here ter call fer such
flamin’ big silent cops.”
“Murrungurry” : We were talking about
droving on dry tracks when Little Peter
chipped in. “I had a small lot of wet ewes
to take from Birdsville one time,” he said,
“an’ there was a seven days’ stretch with-
out water to get over. Blokes at the start
said I’d never do it, but it was dead easy.”
“How did you manage?” asked one of the
circle as Peter paused to pick up a coal.
“I had calico hurdles to nold ’em at night,”
said Peter, “an’ every evenin’, as soon as I
had ’em rounded up, I milked the ewes, an’
gave ’em their own milk to drink —just as
much to each one as she produced. That
pulled ’em through.”
;Ji V
“Trevdee”: In and around Whitechapel
(London) the meat salesmen converse in
a jargon known as “butcherese” —words pro-
nounced backwards. For instance, “Yadoog,
woh.tuoba a knird?” means “Gooday, how
about a drink?” Several ex-Cockney
butchers in Melbourne still keep up their
“butcherese,” and it is surprising how un-
hesitatingly they give back-chat to one an-
other in this rather difficult lingo.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Look for bees’ nests round
about Sydney and you’ll find some in queer
places. Three of the tombstones in the
old Bunnerong cemetery at Botany harbor
swarms. In one case the bees have their
entrance at the ground level and appear to
go down into the grave; in a second they
have made their entry at the word “Amen.”
The third swarm uses a crack in the old
slab for an entrance. Another swarm is
in the old tower clock at the Coast Hos-
pital at Little Bay. Still another lives in
the crevice of-a rock on the sea coast, just
above high-water mark’ while in the near-by
scrub bees have taken possession of an old
rabbit burrow. Coming right into the city,
a swarm may be seen in the front wall of
the National Art Gallery in the Domain.
The bees enter just above the word “Dona-
tello,” to the left of the main entrance.
Yet another swarm is to be seen in a
drain , pipe . running down the wall of the
Sydney Grammar School in College-street.
* * * *
“Arvicola”: That “champion rat” des-
cribed-by “J. A.” (B. 23/11/’32) as having
been caught in Queensland was not a rat
at all, but a vole. Compared with the thiev-
ing, disease-carrying brute which is one of
the modern world’s greatest afflictions, the
clean-living, clean-feeding vole is a gentleman
of coat armor. Personally, I have only one
complaint against him. Often when fishing
at night on the banks of western Queens-
land rivers I have found the daring devils
sneak captured fish from right alongside
me while I was intent on watching the old
cork float.
=!= * * *
“Hamer”: It amazed me the other day
to see an old gentleman friend of mine
comfortably seated on his lawn with a
vacuum, cleaner going at full blast near him.
He had the long
arm arrange-
me n t of the
machine fi xe d
upright behind
his lounge chair
so that the
nozzle sucked
air from over
the top of his
bald head. It
sucked in any
fl ie s or mos-
quitoes that
were tempted to
alight on his
cranium, he
told me; and
moreover the
current of air
cooled his head.
The noise of
the machine did
not annoy him,
a p p a r e ntly.
Subsequently he
showed me how
he vacuu m-
cleaned the
bushes sur-
rounding the
o r n a m e ntal
pond; it cer-
tainly made a
clearance of the
few mosquitoes.
Then he told
me a pathetic
story of how he
lost a house*
keeper. She
was emptying
the bag of the
cleaner, in
which the mos-
quitoes are usu-
ally killed by
the rough treat-
ment of the air-
suction, when a
couple of bees, accidentally caught in with
the rest and by no means as dead, decided to
avenge their injuries. My friend, startled
by her yells, found the stout lady waddling
around the house, slapping herself in
exposed parts as if she had gone mad. He
found she was mad. too. She told him she
did not intend to remain in a house where
such things could happen to a respectable
woman. ,
's * * *
“Segnalpa”: Stephen Island, in Torres
Strait, is the subject of a buried-treasure
HE’D LIE IN A BIT.
NIGHT PORTER: “What time would you like breakfast in the morning, sir?”
DAD (just arrived in town) : “Don’t get the girls up too early. Five o’clock will do me.”
legend. A Spanish vessel was wrecked there
centuries ago. Among the survivors was the
captain’s wife, who brought with her jewels
which attracted the attention of the natives.
All the men were killed, but the chief of the
island installed the woman in his hut, from
which she disappeared a few days later.
Probably she committed suicide. The
jewels were used to decorate a stone god or
Zogo. When the first missionaries arrived
the old priests buried this god so that it
should not be destroyed. They preserved
silence as to its whereabouts, and all died
without revealing the secret. The only
known clue is that it is buried where the
water is waist deep. As the island is about
a mile in diameter, it is unlikely that the
treasure will ever be found.
* * . * *
“Skip”: On Lady Musgrave Island, a small
coral atoll at the southern end of the Bar-
rier Reef, dwells a colony of tree-climbing
goats. Some years ago Rockhampton had
one of its rare clean-ups, and the number of
Willies being reckoned excessive .it was
decided to ship a quantity on to the Barrier
Reef “for the use of shipwrecked seamen.”
But these unfortunate mariners are now
only to be found on the waterfronts of Syd-
ney and Melbourne, so- the animals have had
to get along without their society. As there
is little vegetation on the island, and as
no goat bred on a diet of jam-tins would come
at coral, William has had to turn his thoughts
to higher things. On entering the lagoon on
a recent trip just before sundown, the first
thing I saw was a huge Willie with a foo'jt-
long beard perched on a branch about 20ft.
from the ground, with his harem munching
peacefully on lower limbs. It’s a rowdy place
at night, what with the cries of mutton-
birds and gulls and the souealing of the
young kids, and the combined stench of goat
and guano is something that should be smelt
to be appreciated.
$ $ $ $
“Tomyodai”: “Pandanus” (B. 19/10/’32)
is talking through his hat when he says
that divers in Torres Strait and North
Westraliajcome up from 28 to 30 fathoms in
20 seconds; such rapid ascents are only pos-
sible without serious injury in depths of under
10 fathoms. Here at Broome at least .20
minutes is spent in ascending from depths of
over 15 and up to 20 fathoms at each dip
during the day, and the full time laid down
in the Admiralty table in the ascent
at the close of the day’s work. When work-
ing depths of over 20 fathoms the time is
increased proportionately. Depths of 28
and 30 fathoms are seldom tackled in West-
ralian waters, except in the “holes” in Roe-
buck Bay, which have not been worked for
tlie last five or six years. That Sydney div-
ing invention is occasioning a deal of corn-
ment and speculation among pearlers, who
gather, from descriptions, that various parts
of the body are subjected to different pres-
sures—thus the hands are at full sea pres-
sure, but the head, chest and abdomen are
at a lower pressure. All previous attempts
to differentiate pressure have failed, as the
limbs exposed to the fullest pressure have
suffered terrible injury.
“E.R.C.”: Has “Pandanus” ever perused
the records in the office of the Registrar
of Deaths, Thursday Island? He would
find them instructive. In 1928 a half-caste
diver went down just once in 16 fathoms, with
helmet and corselet only. He was paralysed
in the abdomen and legs and died after 14
days, meanwhile suffering* intense agony.
In 1929 a new area of shell was found in
the Gulf of Carpentaria in 18 fathoms. The
mortality was high and many divers who
escaped death were, paralysed. A Yankee
naval diver at Keyport, Washington, U.S.A.,
worked in 20 fathoms for 30 minutes. He
ascended in two " minutes instead of the
regulation 30 minutes, and was badly para-
lysed in both legs and one arm. The
depth reached, the time spent on bottom
and quickness of ascent achieved in the
recent test are not the limits for the appa-
ratus demonstrated in. Sydney Harbor, but
even if they were they represent a very
much more striking performance than any
Asiatic diver ever put up, “Pandanus” not-
withstanding.
* * * *
“Psoriasis” : “G.A.S.” (B. 23/li/’32) slips
when he says Australian thermal springs are
remote from civilisation. To name only two
medicinal springs—both of them are the re-
sults of artesian boring—-Moree in n.-w.
N.S.W. and Muckadilla in southern Queens-
land stand high in the. respect of medicoes.
There are other bores not so well known. One
I can recall was near the Quensland-N.S.W.
border. The station and bore owner was
noted for his thrift; in fact, his name was
always prefaced by the epithet “Hungry.”
He was persuaded to assume the guardian-
ship of a son of a widowed sister. Long
hours of jackerooing in inclement weather
laid this lad up with severe rheumatism. A
doctor, called in by some neighbors, said
the boy must at once be sent to Moree or
Muckadilla for the hot mineral baths.
“Hungry ’ thereupon sacked the man in
charge of the bore and installed his nephew
in his place with instructions to take regular
baths in the hot and mineral-impregnated
waters. The boy was cured, but later left his
relative’s service with contumelious comment.
Many’s the time old “Hungry” has told me
how sharper than a serpent's tooth the inci-
dent bit him.
SAID JOE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“These chaps,” said Joe, “who’re down on
drink
Mean well, I wouldn’t doubt it,
But, Lord! what chumps they are to think
That men will go without it.
These Pussyfoots and such, my son,
Have made the world their debtor;
They sought to show it could be done
And now they’re knowing better.
“These Yanks for many a weary year
Have found no plan too risky
That helped to make a crime of beer,
A felony of whisky.
They’d laws each brand of booze to ban
That biteth like an adder.
Now Uncle Sam’s a wiser man,”
Said Joe, “and p’r’aps a sadder.
“Since Father Noah grabbed a vine
And in his garden set it,
You'll find that blokes who want their wine
Or grog,” said Joe, “will get it.
And when there’s nix upon the shelves
Where once were flask and flagon,
They’ll brew synthetic gin themselves
Before they’ll board the : waggon.
“These chaps who at the Demon Drink,”
Said Joe,; “are. always pegging
Away, I wonder what they think
Now Yankceland’s reneggiiig.
The longer , that their stunt was tried
More ways were found to smuggle.
And now, it’s clear, the towel they’ve skied
And given up the struggle.
“This Prohibition farce,” said Joe,
“It looks they’re goin’ to squib it;
But anyway it’s served to show
There’s things you can’t prohibit.
This bone-dry biz has proved a sham,
A fair washout, a shizer:
And, if he’s sadder, Uncle Sam,
At least it’s left him wiser.”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


THIS LARGE INSURANCE COMPANY
CONSIDERED THE “COURIER” TO BE
The Very Best Medium
The Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance Co. sought the most effective and economical
method of making an announcement; to Queensland people. They chose the Brisbane
Courier,” and wrote us: — .
« you maiJ interested to know that those present were unanimous m
saving that the ‘Brisbane Courier’ was the very best medium, for that was the
paper they always noticed in the homes of the people with whom they came »n
contact • ( Signed ) “A. J. HENDERSON,
“General Manager
The “Brisbane Courier” has been “the very best medium” for 87 years.
Brisbane Courier
RepresentativeßOßT. D. FISHER, Ilf Pitt Street, Sydney — Bsooi.
ê
m
'J Tffffl
RTfrffr
iiifl'
linn
H 5 mm eh
m
£
The World Market for
125,000 Trade Buyers
FREE TRIP TO LEIPZIG.
As a special inducement to Australian Buyers deciding to visit the
Leinzur Trade Fair, the Authorities are offering generous rebates on
all travelling expenses to Leipzig. This facility, combined with
the advantages of securing all classes of merchandise at extra-
ordinarily low prices, will amply repay Trade Buyers for the time
taken on the trip.
SPRING FAIR COMMENCES MARCH 5,1933
Comprising Samples Fair, Textiles, Sporting Goods Adver-
tising Novelties, Furniture, Great Engineering and Building
Fairs. —(7500 Exhibitors.)
The W.E.Z. Catalogue, profusely illustrated, is available to rrade
Buyers The Organisation will gladly supply names of reputable
German ' Export Houses. Full details are obtainable of the
Authorised Representatives, Lars G. Brundahl, 121 1 itt street.
Sydney. (Phones: 84006, MW2201.) C. N. heppel Box 1658,
G.P.Ch, Melbourne. H. C. Ittershagen, West Subiaco, Perth, W.A.
Leipzig Trade Fair
IN THE HEART
>Of BEAUTIFUt
GERMANY
“Roga” : Has any serious effort ever been
made in Australia to construct dew-ponds?
These preventives against drought are fairly
common in some payts of England. Always
full of water, they are -usually to be found
at or near the tops of hills. England’s
master dew-pond builder is Tom Smith the
Last; his family has been at the game for 250
years. A hollow is shaped out according
to the quantity of water required, and the
loose earth is beaten firm with the feet.
Six inches of clammy hillside clay is now
spread evenly over the hollow, and this
bottom is then pugged. The next step
consists in applying two inches of lime, over
which four inches of straw is roughly but
evenly strewn. The whole is now covered
with a layer of local soil and again beaten
THREE’S A CROWD.
INSURANCE AGENT: “Do you want it insured jor third-party risks?"
MOTORIEST: “Oh, no—it will only hold two!”
down- with the feet. This makes a basin
which will hold moisture for ever.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: In some States many public
nuisances not elsewhere provided for are
dealt with under the Noxious Weeds Act,
they having been brought under its provi-
sions by proclamation. Queensland has
taken a new line. It has proclaimed a dis-
trict near Brisbane an area for the control
of brumbies or wild horses. There are no
brumbies in this peaceful settlement, but
there are numerous stray prads, turned out
by casual owners to live on the roadsides
and whatever else they can encompass, anc
these have been a source of trouble to tne
Beerburrum tobacco settlement. Under tne
old conditions the straying beasts could
only be impounded, which meant a lot or
trouble. Now they have been promoted to
the rank of brumby they can be shot or
otherwise destroyed on sight.
;];
“Fiduciary”.: Some of Queensland’s far-
western citizens have recently been protest-
ing to the Government against the use of
“calabashes” and “shinplasters,” a universal
custom in isolated communities in western
and northern Queensland. The calabash is
a cheque for a fairly considerable amount
issued by some more or less established
person or firm, and the shinplaster is its
little brother. In places where legal tender
is scarce and banks are distant, these are
accepted as currency and pass from hand to
hand, with change given and taken, perhaps
in smaller documents. It is not an unusual
thing for a cheque to be a couple of years
on its journey from tlie drawer to the bank.
Naturally the issuers of the briefs have no
rooted objection to a system which is profit-,
able to them.
:J: ❖ *
“Hijou”: The West African oil palm
(B. 2/11/’32) has been cultivated for
some time in the Malay Federated States,
where the Government has hopes ot
establishing a large and profitable industry
to supplement rubber and tin production,
both of which have fallen on evil’ days. The
famous “nut” is really a large berry about
the size of a Victorian plum and its black
skin encloses a stone covered with an oily,
fleshy envelope. It is from this that the
oil,is extracted. The pioneers of the indus-
try in Malaya have not yet discovered an
insect to fertilise the female flowers, which
grow together with the male on the same
palm. Consequently they must be hand-
fertilised by coolies, who go round with the
male plant shaking the pollen over the
female, just as the Sinai Bedouins do with
their date groves.
“Waranbini”; Binghi’s way of cooking
carpet snake is peculiar. Split lawyer cane or
vine is wrapped round it from end to end,
and it is coiled into a large ring, then hung
near a hot but steady fire. It is frequently
turned with a stick, round and round, until
it is cooked. The process takes some time,
and commences, as a rule, when the cook
is busy roasting or grilling other meats,
which he eats as they are cooked, the carpet
being for a later banquet. If he is hungry
and has nothing else to go on with, Binghi
coils the-snake like a damper, or bakes him
in a stone oven, in which a fire is first
made and then raked out, leaving only a few
embers under the bottom stone. In this the
coiled joints get dried where they lie on the
stone, while in between the coils the meat
is underdone. It is finished off by swinging
it close to a fire.
“Uroaetus Audax” : Let me trundle up the
heavy artillery in support of “Aquila’s”
theory (B. 2/11/’32) that the enormous
size of an eagle’s nest is due to annual
additions. D. W. Gaukrodger in “The
Way of an Eagle” says: “Eagles will also
add to and occupy the same nest season
after season. In these . circumstances the
nests become huge structures. One, measured
with a surveyor’s levelling staff, proved to
be 9ft. 6iin deep on the outside and sft. Gin.
across the top. There were six different and
distinct nests; the whole weighed 9201 b.”
=i= * * *
“A.H.8.”: A notable aspect of _ Maori
customs in thought and speech is their close
likeness to those of
the Highland clans.
The Highlander says:
“The Great Forester
was , abroad last
night.” Any Maori
would know at once
that death was
meant. No simile is
more congenial to
the Maori mind than
that of a great man
and a great tree—
rotara, rimu, kauri,
or other giant of his
native woodlands.
One of the favorite
Maori mourning-
chants apostrophises
the dead leader as
“My Kata Tree” and
expresses the sorrow
and desolation of a
people now bereft of
the comfort once pro-
vided by its shelter-
ing branches. Sir
Walter Scott has a
translation straight
from the Gaelic.
“Wide, wide around
were spread its lofty
branches, but the
topmost bough is
lowly laid.” _ That's
pure Maori. “A
rinnin’ stream they
daurna cross” is said
of the Highland
pixies. In all Maori
legends the macro, or
wild man of the
w r oods, is afraid to
face water. A Maori
chief killed or sorely
hurt in battle was,
hostile circumstances
permitting, taken
home to his own
tribal lands for
burial. His bearers
on such a journey,
at each night’s rest-
ing place, would rear
some carved post or
other mark, or at
least name the spot
in lasting memory
of the occasion.
Highland clansmen
on °a similar task of love and duty erected
cairns on which each man laid a stone
homage to his dead chieftain.
* * * *
“Tidapa”: There has been an epidemic
of slv grog in British Malaya, where the
poverty of the Chinese has led to many of
them making a living by the illicit distilla-
tion and distribution of samsu. A type ot
still recently discovered is as ingenious as
any to be found in this country and is both
simple and effective. A large cooking-basin
is almost filled with rice and water, sugar
in the form of sap from the sugar palm is
added to the rice, and a fire lighted,■.bring-
ing the mixture slowly to the boil. Im-.the
basin is a hollow cylinder of wood and on
top of'this cylinder another basin is placed
and cold water is splashed into it, causing
condensation of the steam rising through
the cylinder beneath. The liquid thus
obtained is samsu, and is collected by means
of a bamboo tube running through the walls
of the cylinder into a container.
* * * *
“Esses” : Bartering is a common conveni-
ence these times. Among the farmlets at
the back of Sydney Mrs. H'ardcase was get-
ting wood, a job that “Bill was too busy to
be doin’ of,” she explained. He must
finish the fencin’, and then there s Ins debts
to pay. We owes the Stumpins two slides
of wood for five settin’s of eggs; an he
owes Crumby three days’.work for, a pick
and a nappin’ hammer, an two loads ot
pumpkins an’ a pig to Hayseed. llow
did he come to owe the pig? she was asked.
“Well, you see,” she replied, our pigs
weren’t big enough, an’ it would aye been
a waste to kill one that was x only halt
grown, considerin’ w T e had to pay a lot ot
fencin’ posts for ’em when they was suckers,
so he borrowed one from Hayseed.” “Then
we’re wantin’ cows,” she added. But
when the fencin’s done the remainin’ timber
should split up into a couple of milkers.”
*•* * *
“Karaway”: On the coast side of Water-
fall and Lily vale (N.S.W.), members of a
bushwalking club got lost purposely and the
others had to find them. The idea is not
new. Six bushwhackers were boasting about
their busheraft and tracking abilities in the
pub at Adavale (Q.). One wagered that he
would lose liimself on the common, and the
others wouldn’t find him between 2 p.m.
and sunset. Most of. the common is open
forest, with a winding, scrubby, creek on
one side. The five experts soon rode over
the open part of the area, and then concen-
trated on the scrubby channel, combiug it
THESE HARD TIMES.
MRS. PITCHER: “I got a bone to pick with you, Mrs. Snitcher.
PONTO: “Strewth, I better bury this one or she'll want to have a
pick at it, too.”
from one end to the other. They returned
unsuccessfully at dusk, but there_was no
appearance of the lost man. When he
hadn’t turned up at breakfast time the police-
man organised a search party; it came
back at night without results. The search
continued the second and third days, and
finally they found the missing man miles
out in a dry part, in the last stages ot
exhaustion and thirst. He had rooted a
hole in a sand patch and lain down to die
—and in another hour or two he would
have died.
“O. de V.”: Let me say a word for Alsa-
tians and other big dogs that run amok
and try to kill their owners. No one should
be' permitted to keep a kelpie, cattle-dog,
Airedale or Alsatian unless he or she owns
sufficient ground to allow the animal tree
exercise. I know one long-suffermg pater-
familias who homeward plods his weary way
in the dismal knowledge that, instead ot
being allowed to relax comfortably after
dinner he will have to sally forth, irre-
spective of the state of the weather, with a
huge hound towing him round the suburb
at the end of a leash. Normally, that dog
should cover at least TO; miles a day at Ins
best pace to keep him in condition. The daily
constitutional is a mere fleabite for him.
Big dogs are big eaters, and when the result-
ant accumulation of energy moves him to
exuberance it is usually misinterpreted by
the average owner, and Oscar is chained up
—a, proceeding calculated to sour the temper
of any animal of spirit. Keeping an Alsa-
tian in a flat or in a congested locality
amounts to the same thing as fitting a high-
powered engine in a flimsy canoe. Some-
thing is bound to bust., It isn’t always the
dog’s fault.
**. * *
“Bumble”: I regret to have aroused the
scorn of “A.V.H.” (B. IG/'ll/’32) but I
lifted the subject matter for that par. about
the bees drunk on lime-tree blossom from
an English trade paper, the “Grocers
Gazette and Provision Trade News. ’ which
evidently doesn’t know what it is talking
about. Further I did not say that, the
intoxicated bees had a bellyful of honey
but an overdose of hootch, which is another
story.
WIRY BOB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some beasts were dropped trom the travel-
ling mob
One night in the Ward’s wide downs,
And back for them they sent Wiry Bob,
With a map of the roads and towns.
He got one bullock, but not a trace
Of more could Robert find,
And he started back on the long, lone chase,
A hundred miles behind.
Across the Nive and the Warrego,
And over to Forestvale,
He hit the camps that the drovers know
And followed the leaders’ trail.
He fended hard to the far Balonne
With his lonely quadruped,
And ever he learnt, as each stage was won,
The mob was a week ahead.
He crossed the border to Mungindi,
And browsed on the Barwon banks,
And in the night where the plains were dry
He stole to the squatters’ tanks.
By drovers’ law twelve miles a day
Is ever the pace assigned,
And he followed the leaders all the way,
A hundred miles behind.
Long ere he landed at Muswellbrook,
They’d given him up for lost;
They’d sold and scattered, from boss to cook,
And back o’er the border crossed.
But in stock arrivals they read anon,
An item in letters large:
“One bullock, prime, from a Queensland run,
With Wiry ‘Bob in charge.”
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


The Equitable Life Assurance
Coy. of Australasia, Ltd.
Head Office: Equitable Life Building-,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Vic. Office: 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
P 0 j
«a, 4»
fir
Head Office,
Brisbane.
The Company trans-
acts every variety of
Probate, Whole Life,
Endowment,Children's
Endowment, Family
Income, Combined
Benefits (all Sickness) ,
Personal Accident,
Fire, Motor Car and
General Insurance.
Policies cover
Hospital Benefits,
Partial and Total
Disability Protec-
tion.
FKEDK. BEVY,
Managing Director.
THE APPRECIATED XMAS GIFT.
CLUB REIL
THE CIGAR OF MATCHLESS
QUALITY.
Make it a Cigar
Xmas for
HIM.
ra
m
EACH
BOX PRICES
CRAIG & AITKEN, LTD.,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. (4 doors below Liverpool Street.)
Win. Fowles, of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne, offers you this season not
only Victorians greatest refined hotel values
thus: Single Rooms
from 4/6 day Double
from 7/6; and meals
"optional (also at re-
duced rates in Tea-
rooms or Cafe), and
Room with Breakfast
from 6/6 Single or
11/6 Double —all less
10 p.c. if staying one
week or more; and
complete Board from
10/6 day or 65/- week
(both net) ; but, in
addition, if you
motor, Win. Fowles
mi
garages your car free of charge in the, hotel
garage, next door, during your entire stay.
Such value 'service and convenience is not
obtainable at- any other hotel in Mel-
bourne city.- Please write for tariff card,
which gives all information, or state your
requirements and we will gladly quote.
Special rates for clubs, conferences, families,
etc. The Manager, Carlyon’s Hotel,.. Mel-
bourne, is sufficient address for your letter.
SMOKE-OH!
“E. J. Knight, 192 N;0.”
How it must have made the fielding side
long for the days of old when Knights were
bowled !
* *
“Britain can and will pay her war-debts.”
—Ramsay MacDonald.
So we’ll at least be spared the spectacle
of Uncle Sam suing poor old Mrs. Britannia
for breach of promise.
* *
THE REBUKE.
All efforts to gag the babbler in the grand-
stand had failed. At the most solemn
moment of Smashem’s innings he had inter-
posed an inane joke, and as Bodybasher,
England’s fast bowler, was in the act of
lashing down one of his killers lie had called
attention to an aeroplane. Goaded to fury,
the veteran in the ancient straw lowered
his glasses and glared. “Dammit, man!”
he exploded, “what do you think this is—a
game?”
10-2-4.
¥ *
AMONG THE FRIMARY PRODUCERS.
“Horticultural shows are popular this year.”
— “Argus.”
Prizes were awarded last week in connec-
tion with the one at Canberra.
Finest Bloomer of the Year.— Ulysses
Blitherer, M.H.R., for voting in favor of the
Government’s popcorn duties after proving
conclusively that every popcorn-grower in his
constituency had been ruined by the duties.
Best Display of Rhetorical Flowers. —All
sections, W. M. Hughes.
“Hey, Dad, quick!”
“What’s the matter?”
“An aeroplane crashed in the. paddick.”
“Strewth, I thought somethin’ ’d gone wrong.”
Best Bunch of Wallflowers. —Beasley
partyette.
The Biggest Plum was shown by Henry
Muggins, recently appointed at £5OOO p.a.
as sole director of Australia’s National
Defences. The U.A.P. exhibited some fairly
healthy Australian Stocks, while Mr. Lang
kindly sent along the champion Raspberry
recently raised by him in N.S.W.
T. P. B.
WRECIvONOMICS.
The humblest citizen to-day has to be pre-
pared to keep his conversational end up on
all sorts of abstruse econo-
mical questions. Your grand-
father never heard of
McMillan reports, fiduciary
issues or Douglas Credit
Systems—which is one rea-
son why lie lived to be a
grandfather. The following
will be of assistance to all
who aspire to become the
supreme bore of their neigh-
borhood :
Gold Standard (in con-
junction with “going off
of”). —Had its origin in
doting parents who referred
to daughters as being “as
good as gold.” Later they
grow up, when “going off
the gold standard” is the
appropriate phrase. Alterna-
tive method is to give up
peroxide. Eminent authori-
ties advise the abandonment
of the gold standard and sub-
stitution of a silverfish
standard, it being considered
that a drive through Aus-
tralian public libraries would
in this way yield enough to
pay off the last Lang deficit.
1 nflation, —-Means making
two things grow where one
grew before, and two people
groan in place of one. This
cutting, carefully clipped out
and pasted into a book, will
be found to leave a hole in
the paper. There’s very
little difference; and this is
inflation.
Natural Re so urc e.s. —-Chief
are the week’s empties, the
chance, in the forthcoming
lottery, a seventeenth mort-
gage on the house, and next Friday’s pay.
Unnatural resource is that shown by men
who can make their wives believe them;
but this is so rare that it can be disregarded.
T. P. B.
* %■
TECHNIQUE OF ENTERTAINING.
Cocktail Party. —Get in adequate supplies
of gin, vermouth (French and Italian),
brandy. curagoa,
kiimmel, metho. and
anything else of an
intoxicating nature
that you can think
of. .. Also procure
caviare, foie gras,
sardines and simi-
1a r comestibles ;
olives, cherries and
things for hooking
them out with, and
ice. Now invite
leading publicity-
chasers and . send
list of guests, with
nicknames (accom-
panied by special
invitation a n d
message of good
cheer), to “Daily
Delirium’s” social
reporter.
Luncheon Party.
—Tell cook to serve
the usual Oysters
Mor nay, Chicken
Maryland and Rum
Omelette (or color-
able imitations of
same). Provide
plenty of drinks.
Telephone promin-
■ent limelighters,
and, immediately
os receiving their
acceptances, write
personal note to
“Daily Delirium’s”
social reporter sup-
plying guest s’
names, and asking
affectionately after
reporter’s health.
Theatre Supper
Party. —Book first-
night seats in most prominent position avail-
able. Engage table in middle of room at Hotel
Palatial. Invite well-known self-advertisers,
and call at “Daily Delirium’s” office, leaving
gift of flowers, and full particulars of forth-
coming festivity, for social reporter.
Jeames.
“She left- because her husband never gave her
any money.”- —Divorce evidence.
Their tics they were resolved to bust,
And did, so with a cheerful heart,.
Yet this is strange; they parted just
Because her man refused, to part!
* *
PLAYING FOR SAFETY.
“My tip for the next Test is that Australia
should win,: but there 'will not be much in it at
the finish, provided, of course, that .each side has
an equal share of fine-weather wickets.”
— C. G. Macartney.
Interviewed on the subject of the weather
our meteorological expert was no less
cautious. “It should be good,” he said,
after a brief study of his forecasting appa-
“They tell me yer say yer gain’ to knock me head off.”
“Well!”
“Then what are you doin’ up there?”
“I —I— I’m restraining mum-mum-meself!”
ratus. “On the other hand, one is unable
to dismiss the possibility of its being
rotten. The first day of the fateful contest
is likely to be fine, but there is the ever-
present contingency of rain followed by a
drying wind, in which case things may-—or
may not —be awkward for our visitors from
the Motherland should they have tne ill —
or good—fortune to find themselves at the
wickets. In the alternative event-assum-
ing, namely, that Australia is batting under
the conditions adumbrated —our side may
be placed at a disadvantage should Brad-
man. Woodfull, Ponsford and McCabe fail
to score. Rainstorms, with gales of 60
m.p.h. and over, are fortunately rare at
this time of year. Should one transpire it
is possible to prophesy with a fair measure
of confidence that the captains, after inspect-
ing the pitch, will decide to postpone play,
as happened in the West Indies on the
tragic occasion when the pavilion of the
Bermuda C. G. was lifted bodily from its
foundations and carried out to sea, the
onlookers and members of both elevens
being drowned. One can safely predict that
so dire a tragedy is unlikely in the case of
the stoutly-built S.C.G. pavilion, however
unfavorable the state of the elements.”
Special Forecast.
A joyous sun will herald in the eventful
day. provided there are no obscuring rain-
clouds. The weather: should be a credit to
sunny ' New South Wales, but cricket
enthusiasts are adjured to have raincoats
and goloshes, handy, and not to look for a
score of 500 or over should our lads have
to face Voce, Tate, Larwood and co. on
a wicket which is to England’s liking.
D.
“Taxing storrmvater channels beyond their caps
city, water flowed over roads and footpaths in even-
suburb.” — “S. M. Herald.”
As Oscar Wilde might have said, how
shamelessly Nature plagiarises from poli-
ticians !
¥ *
“Dean Inge said the Church should condemn
marriages of deaf mutes.”— Melb. “Herald.”
True to his character as the “Gloomy
Dean,” he frowns on this happy solution of
the marriage problem.
* *
CLEAN BOWLED.
With a snort Mrs. Sniggs dashed the “S.
M. Herald” to the kitchen floor. “So that’s
why you’re always at cricket matches,” she
raged. “ ‘Fast Englishmen’! ‘Maidens’!
‘Slips’! ‘Glances to leg’! I see that one
shameless brute deliberately ‘piloted a nice
one down the gully’! What infamy that a
so-called moral Government should tolerate
such goings-on! In future, Sniggs, you'll
stay at home on Saturday afternoons, or
make up your mind to face the Divorce
Court.” ,?
M< M.
* *
They’re allowed too many bawls to the
over on the Hill.
* *
The cost of living has fallen 2 p.c. this
year, yet the publicans manage to keep
their spirits up.
* *
Americans will be singing “Ale,
Columbia!” before long.
* *
NEW RECORDS.
Several of the coins taken at the gate
during the first Test were dated 1932, thus
breaking the record made during the last
visit of an Australian Eleven to England,
when English cricket barrackers handed
over coins dated 1930.
During their stay in Sydney all members
of the English Eleven crossed the Harbor
Bridge, thus establishing a new record. Pre-
viously not a single member of a visiting
Test team had crossed the Bridge.
Stan D’A.
Some of these half-clothed surf girls
deserve to be tanned.
* *
They can say what they like about Nagel,
but it’s the batsman who makes a hit who
makes a hit. :
* *
“Australian musical circles are agog with the
rumor, that the Coldstream Guards Band may visit
us.”
And Lang-plan circles are agog with a
scheme to sencf our band of New Guards in
exchange.
* ¥
“Slow cricket affects attendances.”
—“S. ill. Herald.”
In other words, the gate depends upon
the batsmen’s gait.
* *
“His drinking habits put him outside the pale.”
— “Sun.”
Also,, outside the pale ale.
“It’s very good of you, Miss Flamingo, to
dance with a fat old fogey like me.”
“Now, Mr. Hippo, don’t fish! I was just
thinking what a pleasure it was to meet
a fine, manly man, after all these young
lounge-lizards!”
THE LOST CHANCE.
I’m feeling very sick of life —in fact I’m
off my food;
I’ve lost, my customary smile and wear,
instead, a frown.
'the reason why I’m troubled by this mel-
ancholy mood
Is that last night the girl I love abruptly
turned me down.
I’ve plumbed the depths of wretchedness,
since she rejected me.
To moon about in sorrow I prefer.
I knoir. of course, that, there arc lots of
girls as good as she:
What grieves me is my sympathy for
TIER !
P. O. M. C.
INVITATION TO ADVENTURE.
Do you hanker to gaze on the glories of
Greece,
Or visit the heart of Tibet,
Where lamas sit brooding their lives out
in peace?
Or do you feel drawn by the wet
And the cold and the fogs that make London
their home
For eight, or nine months of the year?
If you do, ice will go there, and later on
roam
To Germany (famed for its beer) ;
To fair Italy (garlic) and France (festive
girls ),
And Spain (senoritas and wine).
Or perhaps you would rather see Broome
and its pearls ,
Or some priceless South African mine?
You object that you “can’t afford berths on
a ship”!
But who talked of crossing the sea?
All you need is a shilling to make the round
trip
If you come to the news-reels with me.
D. J.


*#>
Wo*
m
m
wm
r
m
%
iWS'
-
\
Hi
: .
I
-■’■vfivi--...
4
4
#
r x
*
✓
u
«(.
bcc-5
dficlures of
TEST
CRICKETERS
in packet.
lOi/0 4
20 M-
/00/o (Imported
Virginia, Jobacco .


A GREAT CHRISTMAS
GIFT!
“Ten Commandments by a Mer-
chant to His Son." See “Bulletin"
Red Page (page 5) of November 2,
1932. Procurable all Booksellers
in Australia.
Australian Waltz-Song
—COMPETITION—
THE BIGGEST VET!
ENTRY FORMS FROM THE MANAGER,
AUSTRALIAN PUBLISHING SERVICE,
P.O. Box 2, Paterson, N.S.W.
Amusements*
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: DOROTHY.
KING’S THEATRE:
DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE In
THE SILVER CORD.
Missing Friends.
W ILL HASLETT. —Anyone knowing his
whereabouts please communicate with
his brother or sister, 70 LILY STREET,
BENDIGO, VICTORIA.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
with which are amalgamated the Western Australian Bank and
The Australian Bank of Commerce.
Paid-up Capital £8,780,000
Reserve Fund . . £6,150,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors . . £8,780,000
Aggregate Assets Exceed . . . . £107,000,000
The Bank transacts all customary Banking and Exchange Business
throughout Australia and overseas. It establishes commercial credit's
and negotiates and collects Bills of Exchange. It issues drafts,
Travellers’ Letters of Credit, available throughout the world, and
makes money transfers by mail or cable. Fixed deposits at current
rates are accepted at all branches for any period from three to twenty-
four months.
705 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia, New Zealand, Fiji,
Papua, Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London.
Agents and correspondents throughout the World.
HEAD OFFICE:
341 George Street, Sydney, New South Wales
Safe deposit vaults available at Head Office
SAVE AND PROFIT
Piling shillings one upon another may be a form of thrift, but it is a
risky method and unprofitable. There is loss of profit because the
same money, placed in a Commonwealth Savings Bank, would earn
interest. There is risk of loss by fire, by burglary, even by inadvertence,
and, not so obvious but quite definite, there is the risk of temptation
to spend.
The Savings Bank Account is the logical place for your savings, for
there they both accumulate and earn interest. Thus your saving power
is multiplied, your savings become profitable, and you are less tempted
to spend wastefully.
Open your Account now.
Savinas JBank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Gift Hints
from
ë
UNIQUE DESIGNS IN TIES
Murdoch’s present an unrivalled
selection of Broadway Ties for
men, available in the new stripes
and spotted effects, checks and
p.ain tones, as illustration.
Each . . 2/6: 3 for 7/3.
Each . . 3/6: 3 for 9/6.
Each .. 4/6: 3 for 13/-.
Quantities of three will be
packed in suitable presen-
tation box, if desired.
m
1
ft
.
I
/M
<7
wu-.- -y - >y >
GENTS’ SHAVING SETS
A gift of everyday usefulness. Compact Shaving
Sets, complete with bowl, brush, and mirror,
as the illustration. Made in White Xylonite
or Tortoiseshell.
PRICES .. 13/6, 15/6, 17/6, 21/- to 45/-
SHAVING SOAP
“Tudor" Shaving Soap, in Xylonite Case, 2/6
per case. Refills of Soap, each 9d.
GENTS’ BRUSH SETS
Brush Sets, comprising two Tortoiseshell-
backed Hair Brushes, with high-grade
bristles, and one Comb in a silk-lined case,
as illustration, 10/6, 15/6, 17/6, 19/6.
FITTED CASES
Gents.’ Fitted Cases, containing Hair Brush,
Razor, Tooth Brush Holder, Mirror, and
Soap Holder, in leather case.
FOR 30/-, 35/-, 39/6, 45/-, 50/-, 55/-.
I i
Send for Murdoch's beautifully illustrated Christmas Gift Brochure. It will help
you immensely in your gift selecting.
WHAT YOU CAN BUY FOR
Bottle of Perfume. Box
of Handkerchiefs (Ladies
or Gents’). Pr. Braces.
Fountain Pen. Tie Press.
5/-
Each.
Manicure Set. Umbrella.
Alabaster Powder Bowl.
Gents’ Slippers. Tobacco
Pouch.
10/6
Each.
Tennis Racquet. Box of
Stationery. Handbag.
Pocket Wallet. Pipe.
Motor Gauntlets.
15/-
Each.
Swim Suit. Toilet Set.
Fugi Silk Pyjamas for
men. Sleeve Links. Hair
Brushes. Razor Outfit.
21/-
Each.
Manicure Set. Sunshade.
Handbag. Gents’ Dressing
Case. Fountain Pen. Kit
Bag.
30/-
Each.
Manicure S e t. Toilet Set.
Handbag. Gents* Fountain
Pen. Pr. Gold Sleeve
Links.
42/-
Each.
WE PAY
FREIGHT
2 PARKb GEQRGLSThEEis
Kindly write
to Desk
“H”
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Payment Deferred,” at Sydney State, is
a great picture in its hideous way. Charles
Laughton, the English actor, has a part
that completely suits liis style, and the pro-
duction is masterly. Laughton portrays a
London bank clerk who has been speculat-
ing beyond his means. Faced with exposure
he poisons and robs a wealthy nephew from
Australia, buries the corpse in the back
yard, and makes a fortune on the Stock
Exchange. He is afraid to leave the scene
of his crime and lives in constant terror of
the body being brought to light. lie sends
his devoted wife away on a holiday with
their daughter and during their absence
seeks peace of mind in the arms of a design-
ing Frenchwoman. Family rows follow and
he is driven to tell his wife about the. murder.
She can overlook murder, but not unfaith-
fulness, and when she finds 'out about her
rival she gets hold of his stock of cyanide
and poisons herself. The end is concerned
with his grim punishment. Laughton over-
shadows the rest of the cast, but Dorothy
Peterson, as the wife, and Maureen O’Sulli-
van. as the daughter, are convincing in spite
of their American accents. '
* «
The new Marx brothers’ show at Sydney
Prince Edward has no plot and no sense,
and it might as well be called “Monkey Busi-
ness,” which was descriptive of a previous
picture by the brethren, as “Horse-Feathers”
which is meaningless. But all true Marxians
will enjoy it. The quartette perform much
the same insanities and wear much the same
costumes as in their previous films.
Grouclio is a college professor, but he soon
discards his mortar-board for morning-even-
ing clothes; the flaxen-wigged Harpo is a
dog-catcher; Chico is an iceman, and Zeppo,
the beauty of the family, is Groueho’s son,
and, like his father, in love with Thelma
Todd. One of the funniest sequences is a
skit on a football match. Things are going
badly for Groueho’s college when Harpo
takes a hand with a pocketful of bananas.
He defeats the opposing tacklers by fling-
ing banana-skins behind him as he runs and
registers an immense score by touching down
with a number of balls. Childish stuff? No
doubt; and in Saturday night’s audience,
as in every audience that witnesses a Marx
picture, there were highbrows who registered
nauseated disapproval. But the majority
yelled with mirth from start to finish. If
any justification for their behavior is re-
quired it may be said that the business isn’t
all slapstick. Groucho’s rambling speeches,
with their startling irrelevancies, are full
of humor and character. The first part of
the Prince Edward show is unusually good
and varied.
•Y * #
“Hat Check Girl,” at Sydney Regent, is
the old, old story of an affluent young man’s
infatuation for a poor but virtuous maiden.
Sally Filers supports her widowed mamma
and work-shy brother with what she. earns
as a cloak-room attendant. Off duty she
attends fashionable parties. She sleeps one
of them off in a strange bedroom. Ben Lyon
meets her in equivocal circumstances and be-
haves like a Bayard, but the course of their
true love is disturbed by Sally’s rascally
employer, an outsize Latin, who wants her
to sell bootleg liquor. Monroe Owsley, a
scandal-mongering journalist, also makes
himself objectionable, but collects a fatal
wound before he is able to part the young
couple. . To. round off the series of hack-
neyed situations Ben is accused of the crime,
and the real culprit is only unearthed in the
nick of time. The acting is worthy of a
better plot.
“Two Against the World” has a moth-
eaten plot also, in which Constance Ben-
nett changes her frock more than 20 times.
Constance is a frivolous society girl with a
weakling brother. Also a married sister
who is carrying on with a Parasite. The
brother, after brooding darkly about his
penniless state and his sister’s shame, shoots
her destroyer in an elevator and is observed
by .Constance. Neil Hamilton, whom Con-
stance loves, prosecutes. The trial is a
tedious replica of a thousand other screen
trials. Constance, in order to save her
brother and shield her sister, falsely swears
that the brother plugged the Parasite to
avenge her honor. So there is an acquittal,
and she is able to marry Hamilton. A
redeeming feature is the dialogue, which is
amusing now and then.
* # *
Tom Mix is foiling them again at Sydney
Haymarket. For the information of kids
and grandmas the name of this one is “The
Fourth Horseman."
Lee Tracy, as “The Night Mayor” of the
other film, gives a lively study of a city
father who lays foundation stones and
opens baseball games and bridges by day, and
relaxes at night, to the despair of Eugene
Pallette, his political offsider, and the horror
of the Reformers. When the stunt press
threatens to expose him, Evalyn Knapp
comes to his rescue. This libel on Mayor
Walker of New York is fairly amusing, but
then anything seems amusing after Tom Mix.
Its chief defects are the. wisecracks which
the mayoral hero and his lass indulge in
during their frequent love-scenes.
“C. Ma”: Efftee Films seem to have
. taken the place of the'. old stock ; companies
that used to do the smalls, bringing the
revelation of Australian bush drama to the
bushdwellers themselves. The Thring enter-
prise is now spreading its two most success-
ful pictures, “The Bloke” and “Diggers,”
throughout Victoria by means of portable
sound equipment of its own. Where country
pictures lack talkie facilities. Thring sup-
plies them. “His Royal Highness,” the
concern’s funniest show to date, will go on
tour.
“R. Volt”: The latest achievement of
Baird’s television is the transmission of a
film actor’s face and voice from London to
a Copenhagen theatre screen, 000 miles
away. The likeness is stated to have been
as clear as with ordinary film, and the possi-
bility has to be faced that 'within another
decade huge central radio stations will be
broadcasting .plays as they are performed
to private screens all over the world. This
will put the talkie entrepreneurs more effec-
tually out of business than broadcasting has
the flesh-an’-blood singer and musician. The
result will be that the cinemas will turn to
legitimate drama, since the public will be
able to get all the canned entertainment it
requires without stirring from the domestic
hearth.


ē
PERFECT LIFE
to DIAMOND RADIO BATTERIES /
■©a'
INS-
'J’HE interna! insulation of a radio
battery is vitally important. In any
battery, a leakage of electricity or chemi-
cals may occasionally occur from one
cell. If this affects other cells the
battery quickly fails.
Now —Diamond embodies a new ex-
clusive insulation material, used in a
new way. It is proof against either
chemical or electrical leak-
age. It isolates every cell,
and absolutely removes any
chance of a leakage spreading. It is
the only 100% perfect insulation made!
The illustration at right shows the new
Diamond method of isolating each cell
in a perfectly insulated compartment, en- -
tirely; protected from leakage on sides!
and bottom. It is at the base of the cellsjj
where corrosion is most dangerous. No
other battery protects this danger spot.
“Perfect Insulation ” gives Diamond
many months of extra life.
m
RADIO BATTERIES TORCH REFILLS
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
TAKE-ALL.
“Yeoman”: Reports of damage by take-
all are coming in from districts in. the prin-
cipal wheat-growing States. This disease
was first noticed in South Aus. in the
’sixties, when, as a result of cropping the
same land year after year, it spread rapidly.
At a conference of farmers at Woodside
to discuss the scourge which had smitten
their wheat, one John Bodey—who died
at Horsham, Vic., a few years ago at the
age of 106—-suggested that the dis-
ease be called “take-all,” because that was
what it did. Thus the name was coined,
and it stuck.
Take-all is a parasitic fungus known
scientiUcally as Ophlobolus graminis. When
it attacks a crop in the early stages it
forms small patches of disease plants, be-
cause the fungus grows so slowly through
the soil from the roots of one plant to those
of another. When the attack in a crop is late
the loss is much more serious. Affected
plants turn white instead of that healthy
golden color; and the white heads contain
no grain. These white heads may be in
small groups, or may appear fairly general
throughout the crop, according to the
severity of the disease.
The roots of a plant attacked by take-all
will be found to be tufted and rotten. Some-
times without the aid of a lens little black
specks may be seen round the base of the
stem just above ground level. These are
the necks of the spore-cases of the fungus.
When rain falls on diseased wheat stems
bearing spore-cases, spores may be ejected
into the air at the rate of several hundred
a minute from a single stem. This dis-
charge may continue for an hour or two.
The spores are carried away by the wind
until washed down into the soil by rain,
where they infest the . roots of healthy
plants. The cycle is repeated; a further dis-
charge of spores, on a larger scale, takes
place with the next rain. And so the dis-
ease spreads by arithmetical progression
with each subsequent rain.
The Waite Institute in Adelaide was
responsible for the discovery of the discharge
of the spores into the air. This charac-
teristic explains why take-all varies in crops
according to the season. The disease is
bad when the spring is cool. and showery.
Loss from the fungus is light when the
spring is fine and dry. The fact that
spores are caried by the wind explains, too,
why crops on well-worked fallow may be
badly infested.
There are two noticeable factors with
regard to the incidence of take-all which
suggest methods of control. One is that
with the application’ l -of heavy dressings of
super, the disease may be negligible, but
where the super, applied is light the disease
may be severe. The other is that the dis-
ease in crops on soils well consolidated is
generally not serious. On the other hand,
take-all is most , severe on. loose and light
sandy soils. So it is wise to increase the
quantity of super., consolidate the fallows
with sheep, burn the stubble, and use oats,
which are immune to take-all, as a rotation
with wheat.
CAN SUPER. BE DISPENSED WITH?
“Valerin”: With wheat at two bob a
busfiel and super, at a fiver a ton. delivered
at country stations, many N.S.W. farmers
have reduced their super, or cut it out. I grew
w T heat 50 years ago before we ever heard
of fertilisers, and got splendid yields. _ I
maintain that with careful crop rotation
and scientific tillage it is possible to dis-
pense with super, and get good returns.
Ernie Field, the F.S.A. president, reduced
this season his super, by 50 per cent, to
301 b. per acre. He expects an eiglit-bag
average.
I heard the other day an interesting
theory to the effect that the constant use of
fertilisers accustoms the seed to a stimu-
lant and it will not give the best results
unless it gets a kick-off with some super.
Anything in it? Anyhow, there’s no justi-
fication for the price charged for super.
There have been substantial wage cuts and
reduced exes., and it is up to manufacturers
of super, to share them with their hard-up
clients.
[lt may be possible to dispense with super,
in parts of N. S. Wales, but it is out of
the question in most Australian wheat-grow-
ing districts. South Aus. and Westralia
will produce somewhere about 90 million
bushels this year. Very little of that would
or could have been grown without super. 1
SHEDDING SHEEP.
“Murrawong”: I have seen six men on
the verge of apoplexy vainly trying to shed
sheep before rain caught them; and I have
seen one old pensioner doing the job with
the minimum of fuss and noise. The differ-
ence was due to the lay-out of the yards.
In the first case, a long race 12 feet wide,
capable of holding 400 sheep, led to the
ramp. There were no check gates, and
sheep rushed into a tight mass and had to
be dragged into the shed one at a time. In •
the second case, a fence divided the race,
and there were check gates at intervals of
10ft. to 15ft., forming a number of small
pens. One man could cut off a dozen and
work them quietlv up to the ramp; then
all lie had to do was to retrace his steps,
opening the gates as he went back to the
main mob, and they would draw up the
leaders themselves.
Sheep will always jib at entering a dark
doorway even where there are sheep within,
unless they can see daylight beyond. H
the interior of the shed is well lighted, and
especially if the side of the shed opposite
the entrance is composed of windows or
large doors that may be opened, they will
enter* without much trouble. In sheds which
rely on space underneath the main floor
for wet-weather room, there is alwavs diffi-
culty in shedding, as that space is invari-
ably dark. That difficulty may be lessened
by letting plenty of light in, especially at
the far side of the area. The simplest way
of putting sheep under a shed is to leave
them in an adjacent yard until dark if the
weather will permit. Then hang several
hurricane lamps from the beams where they
cannot be knocked over, but where they will
light up the ground over which the sheep
have to pass. On the far side of the pen
place several carbide lamps, or park the car
with the headlights switched towards the
mob; then start the sheep’ in. The ease and
speed with which they can be yarded will
seem miraculous to any man who has battled
and blasphemed with other methods. Inci-
dentally, the hardest time to induce sheep
to enter any shed is at sundown, when it’s
still fairly light outside. You will save
yourself a ton of trouble by waiting till it’s
almost dark; then a couple of Hurricane
lamps judiciously placed inside, and the
sheep will shed themselves.
BALE-BRANDING.
“Kripple”: Some wool-growers have a
weakness for stencilling outsize brands on
their bales. Yet long stencils take time
to cut, and involve waste of materials and
unnecessary wear and tear. Nor do brands
like “I. B. PROMINENT, LOOKATME
STATION, CENTRAL QUEENSLAND,”
cut any ice with buyers. They may even
repel them by forcing them to consider how
much time will be wasted in their offices
in'writing and typing. Before wool is out
of the bale brands have to be typed scores
of times.
It is quite enough to give initials over or
under the name of station, class of wool
and bale number. With a cold chisel and
a strip of sheet metal it is a simple job
to cut brief stencils with 3-in. letters. The
bale number should be applied at least a
foot from the bottom, a point buyers will
appreciate on the show floors where the
wool often reaches well up the bale, obscur-
ing the number.
BREEDING POLLED CATTLE.
“Rocky”: Increased interest in polled
cattle is being shown in Queensland. Many
cattlemen say they have had enough of
horned types, having been hard hit by the
new system of payment for fats at the works
on grading of the beef, instead of purchas-
ing on trucks. They now realise the extent
of damage done by horns. For conversion
of herds ample supplies of first-quality Aber-
deen-Angus and Red Poll bulls are available.
Then there is the Polled Hereford, which has
developed into a remarkably good type dur-
ing the last few years and is well worth
attention by graziers having either Hereford
or Shorthorn cows. Also the Shorthorn could
be developed into a polled type provided
breeders gave it the required attention and
effort.
Those who have watched the development
of the Polled Hereford know how easy it is
to breed the horns off once a start has
been made. Some bulls, of course, get better
results than others, but it is not uncommon
for a polled bull to throw up to 60 per cent.
of polled calves out of horned cows ; so that
the speed of progress is considerable with
culling and consistent aiming at the right
type. Ten years ago, there were only a few
Polled Herefords in Australia; but to-day
the breed has extended from Queensland into
N. S. Wales and Victoria. At the moment
there are over 150 entries available for the
second volume of the Herd Book; in the first
volume 130 head were registered.
There is bound to be opposition to this
conversion of herds to the polled type; but
when one considers tlie arguments in favor
of the move it is surprising that polled stock
have not gained more favor in the past.
Once they commence to be the fashion their
expansion will be rapid, especially in
Queensland, where most of the,graziers have
to dispose of fat bullocks through the meat-
exporting companies.
MONEY IN PODDIES.
“Booraby”: A farmer on the Richmond
River (N.S.W.) started one of his boys on
a selection, thinking he could make a living
at dairying by beginning with a few
cows and gradually increasing the herd.
Instead, young Corncob fenced in one pad-
dock, and stocked it with male poddy calves
that he bought for a few shillings a head.
Dairymen mostly kept their heifer calves,
but get rid of the others. Having run
out of money, the youth took a job
for a few months. With his earnings he
bought more poddies,- fenced in another
paddock, and then went on wages again.
In that way he continued for three years, by
which time he had a draft of fat bullocks
for the butcher. With that cheque he was
able to complete his fencing and yards, build,
sheds and replace his bark humpy with a
slab-and-shingle house, besides stocking the
rest of his selection with poddies. Most
of the building was done with very little out-
side help.
The young fellow had now a regular in-
come, though he never had a cow on the
place; for each year a mob of grown cattle
went to the butcher, and the paddock they
were lifted from, after a short rest, was
restocked with more poddies. His equip-
ment was simply three or four saddle-horses.
By riding about he knew the sources of
supply, and where and when to go to pick
up a few head. He bought only healthy,
sturdy poddies, sometimes going consider-
able distances for his requirements; he
specialised as far as possible in beef breeds.
Others he picked up at a lower price, accord-
ing to what the grown animal was worth to
the butcher. .
Having got himself well established, he
now put a few acres under cultivation, to
grow fodder for bad times and to enable him
to put more poddies in a couple of paddocks
than they could not otherwise carry. At
this time he knew nothing about improving
the carrying capacity of his pastures, such
as introducing good grasses and shrubs for
all seasons and for droughty periods. So
far as grazing was concerned, his selection
was left just as he got it, dependent on the
natural forage, and subject to seasonal varia-
tions, some of it being poorly grassed, and
much of it grassed with the wrong sort.
There we will leave him, but such an enter-
prising young fellow will learn as he goes.
There is money to be made on ordinary
selections or small grazing areas with the
male poddies which dairymen have no use
or room for, and generally sell to the
butcher. Where they can be got regularly
at a low price they pay better than breed-
ing. An important factor to the specialist
in poddy-rearing is to be prepared with re-
serve forage to . take advantage of dry times
when young stock can be got cheap. This
is ensured by studying the soils and condi-
tions of the different parts of his block and
getting the best out of every acre, in addi-
tion to storage of hay and ensilage and con-
servation of water.
LUCERNE IN GIPPSLAND.
“J.W .W.” : You rarely see a paddock of
lucerne in the Gippsland hills, but in the
Moondarra district, on the Moe-Walhalla
narrow-gauge line. John O’Toole has shown
that the right kind of lucerne can be
grown. French Provence is the variety he
has established, and it has been doing well
for years. No irrigation is possible; but
the rainfall is from 33 to 40 inches. Four
cuttings a year of nearly a ton per acre
each provide fodder for the dry time and
tlie cold. Very little grazing is done. The
soil is a chocolate volcanic loam with a
stiff subsoil, mixed with volcanic stones.
Hunter River lucerne was tried on a
near-by farm years ago, but it became
infested with dodder and passed out. Where
French Provence ( especially _ if the seed is
raised locally) has been tried the results
are satisfactory. A remarkable thing about
the lucerne grown in this cold hill district
is the fact that it has scarcely any aroma
or taint.
RESIDUAL EFFECT OF SPRAYS.
“R. Iv. Deea”: In Victoria the stage is
set for a bounteous yield of fruit; but the
orchardist is not free from worries. Last year
tlirips nipped liis crop in the bud, and the
present most favorable season is beginning
to slnfw signs of red spider; black spot and
falling'fruit. Then the codlin-moth, flying later
than usual, is sure to be troublesome. The
spray combining white oil and lead arsenate
will check these pests. I have doubts about
the effectiveness of the falling petal spray,
at any rate in wet years, and have found the
grub to be most annoying when the fruit is
commencing to ripen. The spray I use is
lib. of lead arsenate powder in 32 gallons of
half per cent, white oil (white oil weighs
approximately 91b. per gallon), to which
is added lib. of lime-casein spreader. (If
skim milk is available, use a gallon of the
non-fatty cow juice instead of the spreader.)
Spraying is not commenced until the moth
begins to fly.
In a discussion of spraying with a leading
orchardist during the last Royal Show, the
question of spray residue cropped up. He
expressed the opinion that repeated spray-
ing with numerous sprays must contaminate
the soil. The ultimate residue from nico-
tine-sulphate and lime-sulphur spraying
would be gypsum (calcium sulphate) ; that
is, if lime-water were used as a liberator
in the case of the nicotine sulphate. Should
soap solution be used, the residue which
would find its way into the soil would be
sodium sulphate and residual fat. Lead
arsenate will lodge in the soil unchanged
and ,in the original insoluble condition.
Although it has been proved that old orchard
soils have been enriched with arsenic by
lead-arsenate spraying, the arsenic content
of the fruit has not increased, so that it
may be assumed the insoluble arsenate is not
rendered available in the soil and simply
lies dormant. The residual oil from oil
sprays will finally reach the soil—probably
in the unemulsified condition—and as such,
taking into consideration the dilute solution
used, could have little or no deleterious effect.
It would probably float off in the surface
drainage water. Copper sprays, such as
Bordeaux or Burgundy mixture, would
finallv produce copper oxide and gypsum in
the case of the former, and copper oxide and
sodium sulphate in the latter case. Experi-
ments have proved copper oxide to be, if
anything, beneficial to plants, whilst gyp-
sum is recognised as a soil-improver. .The
sodium sulphate from the Burgundy mixture
and nicotine spray would not be harmful
in the soil unless present in large amount,
and as the substance is very soluble in
water, the first good rain would wash it
away in the drainage water. In short,
none of the sprays in general use will add
any deleterious or toxic substance to the
soil.
Some orchardists aver that the codlin
moth has become immune to arsenate spray-
ing. Tills is blaming the sheep for the
suit which did not wear well. Lead arsen-
ate will kill a grub fas quickly and effec
tively as ever. In the early days of the
moth pest there were fewer and smaller
orchards, and consequently better control.
In addition, in the years gone by there was
not the preponderance of cottage gardens,
with the neglected two, three or four trees,
to act as breeding grounds, as at present.
I know, because I have a neighbor with
three crab apples and a 15ft. pear tree,
unpruned and unsprayed for the past ten
years. My trees have to withstand the
full shock of all his moths.
WHITE ANTS IN TREES..
A Jericho (Q.) reader wrote to the Serv-
ice department asking how to deal with
white ants which were attacking his citrus
trees. Chief Entomologist Veitch, of the
Queensland Agricultural Department, to
whom the question was submitted, has
courteously furnished the following instruc-
tive information :
Two methods are recommended for the control of
white ants in trees. For one a poison syrup is
made up—4l lb. molasses or treacle and 111 b. sugar
to a solution of fib. sodium arsenite in J pint
of boiling water. The syrup should be thickly
smeared on soft pine wood boards, which should
then be nailed or tied together in pairs with the
poisoned surfaces together. These treated boards
should then be buried hi the soil at a short distance
from the trees to be protected. Of course, eradica-
tion of white ants by this method will take some
time, as the insects will need to find and feed on
the poisoned hoards.
The other method recommended is to use the
chemical paradichlorobenzene as a soil fumigant.
This substance is white, crystalline, and it gives, off
a gas noxious to insects. It is active in a warm
loose soil, but is ineffective when the soil is satu-
rated with water. The chemical is obtainable from
Messrs. A. C. F. and Shirley’s Fertilisers, Ltd.,
Little Roma-street, Brisbane, at about Is. (id. per
pound, plus a small packing charge. A circular
trench should be dug around the trunk of each
infested tree, three to four inches deep and not
closer than six inches to the trunk. Small crystals
of tne chemical should be sprinkled in the trench and
the soil should then be tilled in. Care should bo
taken not to place the chemical in contact with
any roots that may become exposed in digging the
trench.
For young trees in a very weakened condition the
safe dose would be ioz. of the crystals, and the
treatment may be repeated at intervals of about six
weeks. Stronger trees may receive loz., while up
to 2oz. may be applied to well-established trees that
may be infested. Attention should, of course, be
(How tinned on next pace.)


*oo*-
■
tu
ABB
mm
32*rnriti
m
CO
Gives extra comfort
Without sacrifice of appearance!
This is a shoe designed by Abbey to
allow free play of every foot muscle
.... shaped to arch over the instep
so that it never feels tight. 1 here
are four widths for each full and half
size. Its upper is of glossy black
velour calf. . . .the' sole of the tough-
est Australian leather.
ORDER BY POST.
State whether you need narrow,
medium, wide or extra-wide fitting,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin) or
a handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW GEORGE
STREET ADDRESS—No. 316 —
ALMOST DIRECTLY OPPOSITE
THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 310
f^RMERS...
k RurauTopics.Dairying.
Stockbreeding. Poultry
■ Horticulture. Veterinary
Notes Etc ....All in
■THE AUSTRALASIAN
■ ON SALE ALL STATES 62
EOTHEN’
ĕ
PAYING GUESTS
128 East Terrace
332 Wakefield St-
ADELAIDE
Unexcelled cuisine
l GARAGE
Inclusive Tariff, £4-4-0
Sc Central 528
i Mrs. PARKER
THE
MIRACLE
FINISH
ė
Not a
Paint,
Varnish,
Lacquer
or Enamel
A product of one of the
finest research and control
laboratories in the world,
DULUX,The Miracle Finish,
is setting new standards,
that reduce maintenance
costs.
Unlike any finish ever be-
fore offered, DULUX is an
entirely new finish for all
types of surfaces.
It will pay you to investi-
gate this latest chemical
development. Without ob-
ligation, request full infor-
mation today.
Obtainable from principal Oil and Colour
Merchants in all States
British Australian Lead
Manufacturers Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY ADELAIDE
MELBOURNE
COME
PRICES Ofc!
BRITISH
LIGHT;
•C
Etfioe
fe6o
CAR
BATTERIES
Owners of British light cars,
can now have Exide start-
ing assurance and long life
From 60/-.
The increased popularity of
these cars, with the cOn-
-1 sequent bigger demand for
Eight car batteries, makes
this new price poss’ble.
AUSTIN - MORRIS - SINGER - TRIUMPH - STANDARD
STATE DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane—EXlDE BATTERY SERVICE (Q) PTY.
LTD.,; Sydney—EXlDE BATTERY SERVICE (Gibson Battle & Co. Ltd.' ;
Melbourne—A. P. SUTHERLAND; Adelaide UNBEHAUN & JOHN-
STONE LTD.; Perth— M. J. BATEMAN LTD.; Hobart MEDHURST &
SONS PTY. LTD.
ECX 9.
given to the destruction of any near-by white ants’
nests and covered runways of the insects on tne
trees should be broken. •
If making further plantings into ground pi overt
to be infested with white ants, pieces of P°’ s °
board should be placed in the soil near the trees a.
a precautionary measure.
A SERVICEABLE SMOODGER.
“W. D Me.” : A type of smoodger which
I have used for more than 30 years is, 1
think, worth describing. It is effective, ca s 3
to construct and to repair, when
are needed, and does not cost much. H c
size is regulated by the strength ot yom
team; mine was constructed tor use with
a four-horse team, unloaded.
Take five 18ft. lengths of 4 x 4 angle
rail, and to them bolt four pieces of 6j in.
or 4in. by 2in., equally spaced, starting
about Ift. from each end. In the centre
place one sft. length of 9in. by 2Mn., to
which can be' fixed an old binder or plough
seat for the driver. Use two lengths oin.
by 2in. for stays on the angle to prevent
the whole from twisting and to keep it
rigid. An old harrow bar, properly fixed,
will do to pull from, or a chain equally
spaced with a strong link in centre will
serve. Use 4in. bolts with square heads,
so that they can be held with a wrench
or spanner when they need to be tightened,
.and prevented from turning in the wood and
working loose. Given good timber the con-
trivance will last for 20 years, and if any
part should break it is easily replaced. It
will do really good work, and cover a large
area in a short time.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Ts dairy production likely to be over-
done in Australia? (2) Is enough butter
produced at present for home consumption.
(3) Is there a good market for surplus
butter? (4) Does Tasmania produce enough
butter for its own use. (5) What type
of cattle is best for butter and meat in
Tasmania? (6) Best type for dairy pur-
poses alone? (7) What advances for stock
and implements arc made under the Rural
Credits Act? (8) Does dairying offer a
good livelihood? —2981.
(1) Still plenty of scope for development.
(2) Yes. 1.3) Yes. (4) About twice as
much as can be consumed locally. (5)
Milking Shorthorns or Red Polls. (6) On
small holdings, probably Jerseys or Guern-
seys. On bigger holdings, dual-purpose
cattle would possibly be more profitable.
(7) The board bases its advances on the
security offered and the suitability of the
applicants. (8) On suitable holdings,
dairying is at present the best-paying of
all Australian primary industries.
(1) What time does a dairying and mixed-
farming course cover at a Q’land agricul-
tural college? (2) Would such a course
enable a man without previous farming
experience to go on the land? (3) Fee? —
2734.
(1) Minimum time recommended is one
year. (2) It should enable a man of aver-
age ability to engage in farming. He should
obtain a first-hand knowledge of district
conditions before purchasing land. (3) The
fee for a 12 months’ course at the Gatton
College is £54 7s. p.a., covering all charges.
My lemon and orange trees have a lot
of red and yellow bugs on them. The insects
have an unpleasant smell. How can I get
rid of them? —3218.
The insect is probably the bronzy orange-
tree bug (Oncoscelis suldventris). For
immature stages use a spray of resin.
31b. commercial caustic soda, 141 b. fish oil
and 40 gallons water. Grind and mix the
resin and soda while dry: boil in 2gals.
water for about 2 hours. Then add the
iisli oil and bring to boil. Dilute this stock
solution with the remainder of the water.
For the adults, in the early morning jar
the trees with a padded pole over a canvas
sheet on the ground. Collect the bugs and
throw them into a bucket of kerosene and
water.
(1) Character of soil, (2) moisture
supply and (3) climate necessary for the
growing of celery in V. S. Wales? —3292.
(1) Soil should be fertile with good
water-holding capacity. Drained swamp is
often ideal. Alluvial sandy loams are also
suitable if irrigation is available. (2) Regu-
lar irrigation is desirable with almost any
class of soil. (3) Cool districts are prefer-
able. It is possible to produce well-grown
celery in warm parts, but quality is inferior.
In the cool tableland districts, it is possible
to grow two crops in the year. Hot-beds are
necessary for the raising of seedlings ready
for spring planting.
Methods for (!) prevention and, (2)
treatment of scaly leg in poultry?-— 3302.
(1) Isolate affected birds and clean and
disinfect houses and yards. The removal
of fowls from the run for, say. six to eight
weeks is recommended. (2) The feet and
shanks of affected birds should be dipped in
warm, soapy water and as much as possible
of the scabs and scales removed with a
nailbrush. The shanks and feet should
then be treated with a dressing of phenol
disinfectant, 24 p.c. to 5 p.c. solution. The
treatment should be repeated in seven days
and again as required. ■
flow can I make a water-trap for catch-
ing mice? —3299.
Punch holes through a kerosene-tin about
2in. from the top on opposite sides. Run
a heavy wire through. The wire also goes
through the ends of a treacle tin with the
lid on, which forms a roller inside the bigger
tin. The kerosene-tin is sunk in the ground
and filled with water to about twq-thirds
of its depth. Tallow or a mixture of tallow
and flour is put on the rolling tin. Mice
jump on this, it revolves, and they fall into
the water.
(1) < What is meant by a spinner's wool?
(2) Topmaker's wool? (3) Preparing
wool? (4) Is there a standard weight for
a top of combed wool? —2897.
(1) Wool in which combing and worsted
yarn spinning properties are highly devel-
oped ; in short, a superior well-bred wool.
(2) Types showing average to good comb-
ing properties. (3) One possessing natural
properties which fit it for the process known
as “preparing” instead of worsted carding.
Only the longer cross-bred and English long-
wools possess the required characteristics.
(4) Weight varies according to the require-
ments of the manufacturer and the type
of wool. For a sliver of merino quality,
60’s up, the recognised weight in England
is 4oz. per 10yds.
(1) How is meat-meal made? (2) Can
rabbits be converted into meat-meal? (3)
Has rabbit meat-meal been analysed, and
if so, with what result? —3172.
(1) After removal of all fat the meat
is dried and pounded into meal, expensive
machinery being necessary for the work.
(2) Yes. (3) It was found to be deficient
in nitrogenous compounds, and of lower
nutritive value than mutton.
How to make rugs and mats of sheep-
shins?- —3150.
Wash the skins well in several changes
of warm, soapy water with a strong- dash
of ammonia, and rinse clean in water of
the same temperature. Hang out to drain,
and when all water has ceased running,
but the skins are still damp, tack them out
on a wall, wool sole down. Rub baking-
soda into the pelt with a half-brick or
other heavy rubber until the skin becbmes
like leather, extending the work over several
days and keeping the skin slightly damp
until the desired texture is obtained; then
let it dry. About lib. of soda per skin
is required. If the rugs are to be colored
make sure the dye is suitable for wool
(generally stated on packets). About two
packets of dye per skin are necessary.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Dimon”: Look over the cart every month
or so, particularly at the beginning of the
harvest, and screw up all loose nuts. Bumpy
roads loosen them, and a loose nut soon dam-
ages the wood. Put a little grease on the
thread first, and always have a washer
between nut and wood, if it is only a leather
one.
“Willeroo”: Some farmers believe in clip-
ping the shoulders of horses to avoid sores;
but if the shoulders are properly groomed
before harnessing, and the collar fits pro-
perly, there is no danger of sores developing.
Shoulders call for constant watchfulness and
attention; to put a collar on over dried
sweat and crumpled hair is to court trouble.
After a good cleaning with the brush, the
shoulders should be wiped in one direction
with a cloth —the way the hair lies.
“Valerin”: Before allowing an inspection
of a line you want to sell it pays to draft
off all small or rough sheep. They spoil
the look of a flock and the buyer always
spots them; there may be only a small
percentage, but he gives himself a generous
margin for those he cannot see.
“Cass”: It may pay sheep-farmers near
a town to follow the lead of a grazier I
know; twice a week he advertises time and
place of yardings of fat wethers on his run.
One or more can be bought for 6s. per head
on the hoof.
“F.A.R.” : A handy leather punch can bo
made from the valve stem of a worn-out
motor tube. Cut the stem off with a hack-
saw and replace nut on the top to prevent
burring when using hammer or mallet. File
small end towards hole till it will make
a clean cut in felt or leather. Thin wire
may be used to push out the cut piece of
leather; or, if a hole (same size as sharpened
end) is drilled right through the cut pieces
will pass out the top as the punch fills.
“Elel6”: When lopping scrub for stock
try a handsaw with large teeth. It is com-
paratively easy to climb with, fix in the
tree and use, and it makes a better job.
“F,A.R.”: For a makeshift spanner for
that job on the car try a piece of hoop-iron.
Cut off the length required and, with a
hacksaw, cut a hole in the end to fit the
nut. File the edge into shape of nut before
using.
“Sylvester”: If you are using second-
hand iron for stump-caps and your solder-
ing gear is not handy, nail holes may be
blocked against white ants this way. Get
a small piece of lead, and, working it
through the hole, lay the cap on a wedge
and hammer the lead down, rivet fashion.
The same method may be used in blocking
holes in roofing iron.
“Cass”: Wire-netting traps are good for
catching bunnies in a burrow, especially
half-grown ones. I find it pays to set
three or more cage-traps to a burrow, search-
ing carefully for all pop-holes or likely
places where they might break through—
ram a handful of papers well in and cover
thoroughly with soil. Choose the pop-holes
that are most suitable for taking cage-traps,
and place them with the trap-doors in the
right position. Fill the entrance of trap
with loose soil, and poke a stick through the
trap to make a small daylight vent through
the filled-in earth. The rabbits follow the
light, and all root out into the traps over-
night.
“Sylvester”: Spring-head nails are more
durable than lead-heads, which are inclined
to rot off near the head. The spring-head,
on account of being galvanised, also gets a
better grip in the batten.
“Valerin” : When the weather gets torrid
and the feed dries off, poisoned water is
the best means of getting rid of rabbits.
Net in the tanks in a paddock, cut a
. narrow' trench a couple of yards long out-
side the fence and allow the water to run
into it. As rabbits are very suspicious,
give them several days to become accustomed
to watering at the trench. Some evening
slip in the poison. I use soluble strychnine;
in the morning pick up the casualties and
park them in a yard. You’ve got to be care-
ful ; sheep will chew the bones.
“Elele” : To make teats for feeding poddy-
lambs from bottles cut out, a piece of rubber
from an old inner tube and shape it like a
funnel. Then sew up the side with ordinary
needle and thread, over and over.
“Silver Fern” : When rhubarb plants begin
to run to seed in the spring and early
summer the flower stalks should be cut out
as soon as they appear; then the plants
will go on producing new leaves and good
stalks. Beds should receive an annual dress-
ing of good farmyard manure. If clumps
become very large they may be divided for
further planting, or given to friends. Box-
ing the stalks to bleach them should never
be practised, neither should the stalks be
skinned.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely, free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one; subject.
The right of selection' and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (20) wants job on farm or station
in Vic. —3317.
.Journalist, Sydney, with idea for monthly maga-
zine, seeks working partner with capital to control
business' side. —3232.
To buy “A Hunter’s Wanderings in Africa,”—322l.
To buy book on - leather-plaiting.—32o9.
To buy second-hand copy of Dyke’s Motor Manual.
—3206. •
To buy copies of “The Australian Magazine.”—
3207
To buy “Psychology of Salesmanship,” by W. AV.
Atkinson.—3326.
To buy “Numismatist” and similar journals.—
3275.
To buy Part 20 “Universal English Dictionary.”
—3261.
Words of “The Great Australian Bill,” published
in the ‘‘British-Australasian’’ during the War.—33ol.
English words of Gabriel-Marie’S “La - Cinquan-
taine.”—33lo.
Words of verse, entitled “The Old Bark Hut.”—
3225.
Information Sought.
Can I remove furniture and personal
effects from J’arkes ( N.S.W .) to another
town 150 miles away on my own motor-lorry
without payment of taxes? If a permit is
required to whom should 1 apply?- —3077.
If the furniture is your own and not in-
tended for sale a permit will be issued on
application at the District Registry, Parkes.
The fee is Is.
(1) Did cobblers ever use pitch for wax?
(2) How was it prepared? (3) Size of
Trinidad pitch lake? (4) Is the pitch of
crumbly texture when taken from the lake?
(5) What is asphalt, chemically ?—3ll6.
(1) Yes, but it had beeswax mixed with
it in varying proportions. Some men still
use it. (2) Melted together by heat, the
pitch being usually vegetable pitch obtained
from coniferous trees. (3) 99.3 acres. (4)
No, it is in pieces honeycombed with gas
cavities, and is obtained by the use of picks.
When the firm layer has been taken out of
the bed of the lake, fresh asphalt flows in
again, and gradually solidifies, so that there
is no diminution ip the supply. It is hard
enough in places to bear the weight of a horse
and cart. (5) Water, 0.17; volatile bitu-
men, 51.81; sulphur, 10; earthy matter,
28.30; fixed carbon, 9.72 p.c.
My daughter wishes to learn etching. She
has had lessons in drawing and painting. (1)
Could she learn at home, from books? (2)
Which would you - recommend? (3) What
materials would she require? (4) Cost? —
3184.
.(1) Yes, but if she could get into touch
with a practising etcher it would help a
lot. (2) “Etching, and Engraving,” by
Ilesketh Hubbard; “A Handbook on Etch-
ing,” by Sir Frank Short ; or “Etching,” by
Lumsden; all are good, (3) Small pieces
of sheet copper or zinc, about bin. by 4in.; a
block of Rhind’s etching ground; wax tapers
with which to smoke the plate after the
ground has been laid; nitric acid and a por-
celain photographic bath, large enough to
hold the plates comfortably; ground whit-
ing; sandpaper ; stopping-out varnish ; tur-
pentine ; a variety of etching needles; a
holder, in which gramophone needles can be
inserted. Three or four needles would be
enough for the beginner. A steel burnisher, a
bayonet scraper, printing ink, book muslin
and soft rag for printing; two or three dozen
sheets of white blotting-paper and tissue
paper; special etching paper for printing
on; a printing press; an iron heater and
a gas-ring. (4) A press costs upwards of
£l2, the other necessities generally a few
shillings each.
(D At what institutions in Sydney are
patients examined for cancer? (2) Is
examination free? —3047.
(1) Royal Prince Alfred Hospital,
Camperdown, Tuesday, at 1 p.m.; St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital, Darlinghurst, Mondays at
1 p.m.; and Sydney Hospital, Mondays at
2 p.m. (2) Yes.
How to stain the top of a white tent to
avoid glare? —-3138.
Staining would not be permanent and
might damage the waterproofing. Best plan
would be to line the interior with cheap green
muslin.
What is the best treatment for a fibrous-
plaster ceiling that has become stained from
water through a leak in the roof, and from
smoke?— 3ls4.
Scrape off all loose flakes and wash the
ceiling thoroughly with soap and water and
allow it to dry, taking care that none of
the soap is left in the pores of the plaster.
Then apply a coat of flat white paint to all
stained portions. When the ceiling has been
rendered uniformly clean and white, apply
cold-water paint.
(1) Ilotc much raw linseed oil does 14lb.
of white lead taice to make a good founda-
tion for a finishing coat on hardwood? (2)
Is boiled oil better than raw for dark colors?
(1) Approximately fgal. Add also §-pint
terebine and 1 pint turps. (2) No. The
boiled oil is likely to cause blistering.
How many eclipses of the sun will take
place in 1933, and when? Shall I be able
to see them from Melbourne? If not, best
part of Australia to view them? —3171.
On February 24 there will be an annular
eclipse, not visible in Australia. An annu-
lar eclipse, visible from York Peninsula
(Q.), will take place on August 21. Cairns
and Townsville will be the best towns of
anV size from which to view it. In other
parts of the Commonwealth it will he seen
as an are. At Melbourne the eclipse will
begin at 4.4 S p.m., and the greatest phase
will take place at 5.43 p.m., when the sun
will, be slightly less than half , eclipsed.
(1) What-is the third-class' fare to Eng-
land by the P. and O. Branch Servicef (2)
The cost of a pass-port and how long it
takes tri obtain one? —3120.
(1) With exchange at the present quota-
tion of 18 p.c., £44 16s. lOd. (2) £l. Appli-
cation should be made to the Collector of
Customs, Customs House, Circular Quay,
two or three weeks before the departure of
the liner.
How to reduce excessive reverberation in
a large bare hall? —3290..
Place some sound-absorbing material, such
as celdtex, on the rear and side walls and,
if necessary, cover portions of the floor with
rugs or carpets. Reverberation is always
greater in an empty hall than in one half-
tilled oy filled with people. A small amount
of reverberation is desirable.
(1) What type of camera would you
recommend for taking on a holiday tour
during Christmas • cost being a considera-
tion? (.2) Is any special knowledge neces-
sary to obtain good photographs?— 32B3.
(1) A folding camera taking- films 2-Jin.
x 3Jin. (2) Nothing beyond the few simple
instructions which accompany the camera.
Any photographic dealer will develop and
print your films at small cost.
I intend going on a walking tour of three
or four days. (1) What is the most suit-
able number to form a party? (2) Acces-
sary gear? (3) Footwear f (4) Any
further information ? —r,3296.
(1) If the capabilities of your compan-
ions are known the party may consist of
three or four; with larger numbers diffi-
culty may be experienced in obtaining
accomodation. If not known, reduce the
number to two. (2) Travel as light as
possible. A spare pair of light shoes, socks,
billy, road-map and water-bottle, besides
food and toilet accessories. (3) Well-fitting
leather .shoes with inner leather and outer
crepe soles and thick woollen soc-ks. Shoes
should be broken in before starting. (4)
Look after your feet. Wash them whenever
possible and reverse socks during the day.
A change of shoes will relieve tired feet.
(1) Has the N.S.W. Government dis-
missed ail married schoolteachers whose,
husbands are working? (2) As at achat
date? (3) How many teachers arc affected?
(4) Is any compensation payable to dis-
missed teachers? (5) Did the Lang Gov-
ernment introduce a similar measure? —26so.
(1) Not all. The Married Women (Lec-
turers and Teachers) Act, 1932, provides that
all married women employed as teachers or
lecturers in the Department of Public In-
struction shall cease to hold office, unless the
Public Service Board has previously certi-
fied that it is desirable to retain their serv-
ices, either in the public interest or on
account of the financial standing of the
teacher and her husband. In the case of
female teachers marrying subsequent to the
Act coming into operation, it is provided
that they shall cease to hold office on the
date of marriage unless the Board has previ-
ously certified that it is in the public inter-
est that their services should be retained.
(2) November 30. (3) Figures not avail-
able yet. (4) Three weeks’ salary for each
year of service, as an act of grace. (5)
No.
(1) Will platinum and helium combine
chemically? (2) Will platinum combine
wifh any gas?— 3l73.
(1) Chemists generally accept the view
that helium and other members of its group
are incapable of entering chemical com-
bination. (2) Platinum combines with oxy-
gen, chlorine and fluorine to form oxides,
chlorides and fluorides. It also combines
with bromine, iodine and sulphur to form
bromides, iodides and sulphides.
Is it possible. to sever a waterspout by
firing a rifle or shot-gun through it at short
range? —3loo.
There is no scientific basis for the idea
that the shot would affect the circulation
of the whirl, and there is no case on record
where destruction by gunfire has been scien-
tifically substantiated.
In the absence of line-umpires, is a cen-
tral umpire empowered to foot-fault a
player, or should he merely draic the player's
attention to his fault? —3lo7.
He may foot-fault the player.
Recipe for a quick-drying black oil-ink?
—3098.
Take equal parts of oil soluble nigrosin
and crude oleic acid; add 7 to 8 parts castor
oil," and mix thoroughly.
How to remove lime deposit from an
aluminium kettle? —3080.
Scrape as well as possible with a chisel-
shaped piece of wood and rinse out. Fill
the kettle nearly full, then add a handful
of whiting, half as much borax and a dash
of ammonia. Let it boil for several hours,
then rinse out and scour with sand. Rinse
clean. Do not confuse lime deposits with
corrosion, a common condition of aluminium
on some water supplies, and beyond all
remedy.
Fo-r an open north-cast position near
Sydney, subject to strong, winds, what is the
best evergreen hedge to protect a flower
garden? The soil is sandy. —3l46.
Put up a wire fence and grow against it
bougainvillaea (purple flowers), duranta
(blue flowers) or lantana (yellow and red
flowers). Fasten the shrubs to the wire,
and they will not be bruised by the winds.
Privet (green and yellow) can be trimmed
to your choice; but for an extremely-exposed
position camphor; laurels will fight the worst
conditions. Leave the planting _ until the
autumn, when the nor’-easters in Sydney
have moderated. Add a little cow manure
and soil to the sand at planting-time.
How can I cultivate “show” carnations?
—6115.
Put in new plants every year, after
thoroughly mixing old rotted manure witli
the soil. Cut off all except the main bud
on the stem and apply liquid manure when
the calyx shows color. Light-colored blooms
must be protected from wind, heat and
overhead watering by placing a cardboard
frame over them. Plants which bear
blooms that “burst” should be discarded,
although if the defect is slight the blooms
can be saved by placing a rubber ring
around the calyx. To keep down expenses
it is advisable to put in slips or layer the
varieties which bear blooms above the ordi-
nary.
My dog shakes Iris head a lot when 'bark-
ing, and is inclined to scratch the inside of
his ears. Cause and cure? —3018.
Trouble is caused by a parasite. Place in
ear a bit of ointment made by mixing
1 drachm of lysol with 7 parts of vaseline.
Two or three dressings at intervals of two
days will destroy the parasite, after which
the ears should be carefully cleaned with
cottonwool on the end of a smooth pen-
holder, and for a few nights a lotion should
be poured in consisting of equal parts ot
liquor plumbi and rain-water.
(1) What are the general principles of the
plant used for electrostatically clearing tar
from coal gas? (2) Voltage used? (3)
Cost of operation? (4) Amount of milh-
amps used per 100 cub. ft. of .gas treated.
(5) Name of firm making plant? (G) Books
on the subject? —26l3.
(1) The type of plant in use at. Mortlakc
(Sydney) consists of a cylindrical steel
shell, 6ft. in diameter, 20ft. high, containing
Gin. steel tubes set vertically in a plate at
the top and held in correct alignment at
the bottom. This shell is efficiently earthed.
Down the centre of each tube hangs an elec-
trode of 16-gauge steel wire, held in position
by a weighted framework and fitted with
insulators. The wire is the discharge elec-
trode which is connected to the high-tension
current. The gas enters the chamber below
the tube plate, descends around the tubes
and on entering them rises and meets the
strong electrostatic field. The tarry par-
ticles in the stream of gas thus become
ionised, and are forced to the walls of the
tubes, where they coalesce and collect in
the base of the steel shell and run off to
storage tanks through sealed pots. In this
way tar is recovered which would otherwise
bo lost. It also prevents the iron oxide
in the purifier boxes from becoming coated
with tar and being of no further use. (2)
The current required is supplied from a
transformer having 250 volts a.c. on the
primary side, stepping up to 50,000 volts
(or more if required) on the secondary side,
and then rectified to d.c. at this voltage by
means of a rotating disc rectifier. (3) At
Mortlake, Avhere 35,000,000 cub. ft. of gas are
treated weekly, the cost' is approximately
O.OGd. per 1000 cub. ft. (4) The current
consumed in treating 5,000,000 cub. ft. per
day is 7 amps at 250 volts on the primary
side of the transformer, or 35 milliamps at
50,000 volts on the secondary side, equiva-
lent to 42 k.w. hours per day. (5) Lodge-
Cottrell, Ltd., Birmingham. (6) An account
of the process will be found in a Depart-
ment of Scientific and Industrial Research
publication, “Technical Records of Ex-
plosives Supply. No. 3, Sulphuric Acid Con-
centration,” 125., obtainable from 11. JM.
Stationery Office, London.
Recipe for an ink solvent that won't
damage ordinary writing-paper? —3loB.
Expert cleaners are able to handle these
jobs satisfactorily, but in the hands ot
the amateur damage and marks may be
expected even if the ink is completely re-
moved. Success depends somewhat on the
nature of the paper—poor papers will not
stand up to treatment. Two separate solu-
tions are made up: (a) One part citric acid.
2 parts concentrated solution of borax, 16
parts distilled water; dissolve . the acid in
the water, add the borax solution, and mix
by agitation, (b) Three parts chloride of
lime, 16 parts water, 2 parts concentrated
solution of borax. Add the lime to the
water, shake well, and set aside for a week,
then decant the clear liquid, and to it add
borax solution. To use, saturate the ink
stain with (a), apply a blotter to take off
excess liquid and then apply the second
solution, (b). When the stain has dis-
appeared. apply the blotter and wet the
spots with clean water; dry off between two
sheets of blotting-paper. Use folded linen
under the sheet for working* . Use camel-
hair brushes for applying solutions.
(1) Rule for sounding “h” in English?
(2) Pronunciation of hotel and hospital.
—3277. , . ,
(1) According to Webster the aspirate
is silent in heir. • heiress, honest, honor,
honorable, hour, herb and herbage; other
authorities say it should be sounded in hero
and herbage. It is silent in all words where
it follows “g” or “r” (ghost, gherkin, rhyme,
mvrrh, etc.) and in all words where it
follows a vowel (ah, oh, buhl, etc.). (2)
The “h” "is sounded.
j am employed by a Local Government
electricity undertaking and am rated as
“district electrical mechanic.” Ami eligible
for insurance under the N.S.W. Local Gov-
ernment Scheme? If so, is it compulsory
for the council to insure me? —2790.
If your duties are such that you come
under the categorv of shift engineer, instal-
lation inspector, distribution superintendent,
mains superintendent, foreman or leading
hand, and are over 21 and have had 12 months’
service with any council the Local Govern-
ment (Superannuation) Act applies. If the
Act applies, it is compulsory for you to
make application and for the council to pay
the premium, portion of which it may deduct
from your salary.
What effect has a high altitude on the
boiling point of water? —3287.
Water boils, in open vessels, at a tem-
perature of 212 deg. Pah. at sea level. Boil-
ing point falls as the altitude increases. At
a height of 18,000 ft (3.4 miles) water can-
not be heated above ISOdeg., Fall, and this
temperature is not hot enough to set the
white of an egg.
Brief Answers.
11.E.8.: (1) Not taxable, as the total
wages (including value of board and lodging) paid
for the week do not amount to £3. (2) The em-
ployee is liable to Unemployment Relief Tax of
Is. per week, in respect of wages 305., plus value of
board and lodging provided ( £1)... .F.W.: The
Rosetta stone furnished the solution to the riddle
of the ancient Egyptian records. It had parallel
inscriptions which were keys to the symbols of
hieroglyphic and hieratic writing... .H.L.: The in-
formation may be obtained from the Registrar-
General, Shipping and Seamen, Tower Hill, London.
G.S.: (1) No. (2) See Greenfield Bros, or
Fraser’s Optical House, both Brisbane. (3) £250
including 6-h.p. motor. (4) Crude-oil engine....
T.D.: Boil in lgal. water which contains 2or.
soft soap and a large pinch of caustic soda. Rinse
in salt water, and set in the sun to dry. The
process may have to be repeated.. . .H.G.: Flaky or
powdered naphthaline is placed in small moulds or
dies and subjected to great pressure by machinery
specially made for the purpose, no moisture being
used. Quite impossible to make at home... . 5.8. H.:
(1) No objection to caustic soda, for cleaning, pro-
vided the receptacle is thoroughly cleaned out after
using thp substance. (2) Turn the tanks on their
sides, and hose ihe interiors with a strong jet of
water. See that all the water is thoroughly
drained out, and give repeated hosings; then paint
with cement or tar and allow to become dry and
hard before using... .J.F.R.: If the leader of the
Opposition is granted the right, then it must be
before the affirmative leader, as sponsor for the
motion, replies, ■ because the mover of the motion
has always the last say.... J.T.8.: Write C. F.
Laseron, 56 Pitt-street, Sydney... .C.C.N.: Write
Will Andrade, 173 Pitt-street, Sydney S.R.: (1)
Write to the shipping cos. (2) Apply District Naval
Officer, Beach-road, EdgecMff, Sydney... .L.W.R.:
Skins are washed with soap and water on the wool
side. Sometimes a small amount of soda is added
to the scouring soap liquor.... F.M.: “The Fifth
Continent,” by E. O. Hoppe... .F.R.: This is a
common ending of mirrors, and there is no remedy.
Re-silvering is too difficult and expensive for
amateurs; better get a new one... .J.W.: Smear the
surfaces of the materials to be joined with the
following cement. Take finely-chopped indiarubber,
20 parts; resin, 3 parts; shellac, 2 parts; and
sufficient carbon disulphide to dissolve all the ingredi-
ents. Place all in a tightly-closed vessel and shake
or agitate frequently until it becomes blended. Press
together, apply weights if necessary and set aside
to dry R.E.M.: Write A. E. Smith, 62 Hunter-
street, Sydney... .W.11.P.: Write W. H. Paling and
Co., 388 George-street, Sydney... .H.R.M.: “The
Grasses and Fodder Plants of N. S. Wales” (6s.
6d., posted), obtainable from N.S.W. Govt. Printer,
Sydney.. .L.M.C.: Currajong, currijong and koorajong
are variants... .D.D.M.C.: (1) There are no official
records. E. Blackwell is credited with having driven
a ball from the tee at St. Andrew’s over 400 yards
some- 30 years ago. (2) (3) and (4) See foregoing.
Probably Bobby Jones is the most consistent long
hitter to-day. (5) 200 yards. .. .J.H.8.: Ormond
House is not now existent. Its purposes have been
transferred to other establishments under the Child
Welfare Department. Communicate with the Secre-
tary, Child Welfare Department, Box 18A, G.P.0.,
Sydney... .E.M.C.: It is impossible to give any speci-
fied dimensions for a pit; it must be designed to
suit the special requirements.... C.W.: At the very
beginning one must win the animal’s confidence ; be
firm always, but kind. One of the quickest methods
is to have an assistant drive the horse forward whilst
the trainer holds the lead and walks always ahead.
E.A.H.: All pars, are paid for. Can’t say how
much, if anything, yours are worth till they arrive.
H.P.W.: At June 31, 1930 the A.W.U. had
15,227 members in N.S.W. The other body you
mention is not registered and the state of its mem-
bership is not known F.K.: The Governors of
N.S.W., Vic. and Queensland each receive £6'oo»
yearly, those of S. Aus. and W.A. £4OOO, and
the Tasmanian Governor £2750. .. .R.H.: Paavo
Nurmi’s first appearance in the Olympic Games was
at Antwerp in 1920. He has competed at three
Olympic Games and holds 10 world’s records
S.S: Write to the bodies controlling the sports
in each of the capital cities J.C.L.: The bride
and bridegroom should be the first to arrive from
church, with the bride’s parents, who receive guests
and present them to the bride, and bridegroom
R.M.U.: (1) and (2) Write Johnson and Sons, leather
merchants, Queen-street, Brisbane. (3) “Leather-
work,” obtainable from J. Thomson, Queen-street,
Brisbane A.C.W.: It is possible, but would
mean a sacrifice. Advertisements of persons pre-
pared to make advances on interests under wills
can be found in the daily press.... D.M.: The Divid-
ing Fences Act (N.S.W.) makes no provision in that
respect. Point out to your neighbor that it is
in the interest of both that there should be a
survey, as without it either neighbor may be tres-
passing on the property of the other.... A.E.S.: The
usual course is for the vendor to sign a transfer of
the land at purchaser’s expense, he also paying the
stamp duties. Write again stating that until the land
is legally transferred he cannot claim it, and that
you are ready to hand over certificate of title....
C.E.D.: If the premises were let on June 30, 1930,
at a higher rental than on October 9, 1931 (when the
Rent Reduction Act took effect), the reduction should
have been made from the higher of the two rentals.
As your tenant paid voluntarily, knowing the relief
given by the Act, it is doubtful whether anything
extra could now be recovered. . . .L.R.: Cant trace
any reference to it in the standard encyclopaedias
F.8.C.: It’s in “The Bulletin Reciter,” N.S.W. Book-
stall Co., Sydney, 2s T.F.W.: Any of the widely-
advertised schools can be recommended M.J.S.;
It may arise from half a dozen pathological condi-
tions, to determine which an examination by a vet.
is necessary V.C.: Period for general nurse,
N.S.W., varies from three to five years. Other
information can be obtained by application
to the hospitals which accept candidates for
training.... J.O.J.' Chapman and Sherack, Ltd.
(Sydney), might be interested or able to tell you
of someone who is. You should employ a patent
attorney, who could advise you on the other points
raised in your query... .E.T.; If the cylinder walls do
not show much sign of wear, oversize Brico piston
rings, obtainable from Smith, Sons and Rees, 30-32
Wentworth-avenue, Sydney, may be fitted without
expanders R.T.: Write J. A. Riley, secretary
Adelaide Chamber of Commerce, 23 Waymouth-street,
Adelaide A. 8.: W. E. Bowes is a Yorkshire pro-
fessional. He was born in 1908, and his selection
followed a fine bowling performance in the match
Yorkshire v. Rest of England H. 8.; Q’land
has two national parks, one on the Lamington
plateau, near the N.S.W. border, and the other in
the Bunya Mountains, about 40 miles from Dalby.
Each offers splendid scenic attractions... .M.J.: (1)
From General Register Office, Somerset House,
Lond. (2) ss. 6d. plus exchange W.F.P.: The
only person who can give information is the Commis-
sioner of Taxes, who regards it as confidential....
(Many others mailed.)


COPlRfcMf
7he whole family will benefit
All the invigorating properties of pure barley malt and
rich full-cream milk are blended deliciously in Nestle’s
Malted Milk to provide an appetising beverage for young
and old.
ẁ
Australian ma<J e |
Support *
Australian Industries
Easy rolled—no better sold
ẃ
Super Quality
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Pike returned to the saddle at Rosehiil
oil Saturday, and racegoers paid him the
compliment of making his mount, Iyoora-
man, favorite (at twos) for a division of
the Maiden Welter. Kooraman, a four-year-
old bay gelding by Valiard —Flavid, is a
stopper, and Pike stole a lead on him that
proved just sufficient —the margin narrowed
to half a head, and in a stride past the
judge’s box La Vixen (12 to 1) was in
front. The crowd gave the crack horseman
a warm greeting, and when his name went
up alongside Nellabar’s number among the
starters and riders for the second division,
she became favorite. But Pike had drawn
a bad marble, and the mare never got to
the front. Aurelian (10 to 1), a rather
stylish-looking colt by Doric —Lady Aura
(a speedy mare in her day), won after a
good tussle with a rank outsider, Barrier
King (practically unbacked in the ring, his
div. was £ll 4s. for 10s.), and Fragrant
Zephyr.
Pike was on a horse with another bad
barrier position in the Flying Handicap,
and Greensea’s price drifted to sevens. Trea-
sury (4 to 1) and Lucre (5 to 1), the best-
backed pair, made an exciting race of it
from the start; Lucre, staying a trifle the
better, prevailed by a head, with Closing
Time (12 to 1) third; Camargo, Greensea
and Gloriole were next. Lucre, a little
Newcastle mare by Leucops—Judaea, showed
fair form in Sydney a couple of seasons ago,
and has evidently returned to it. She was
ridden by Simpson.
As at Canterbury, the field in the 10-fur-
longs event was small and of indifferent
finality. So indifferent that Mountain View,
who had boon nominated for the Granville
Stakes (and handicapped to receive 71b.
Bert:' IVE BEEN TROUBLED LATEI-V
WITH INSOMNIA?
Qert: Vou c*n easily curb that"
Bert: wish l knew mow."
Gert; "go ANO WATCH the cricket''
from the winner of that mile race, Sly
Boots), was reserved for the Club Handicap,
It was shrewd tactics on W. A. Ross’s part,
for he got a good price (eights and sevens)
about his very ordinary-looking gelding, and
saw him lead from .start to finish, Parsons
riding a nice waiting race in front. The
overboomed Lovely Balloon (3 to 1), from
the pony courses, was a poor second, and old
Inducement pipped Havaspot (3 to 1) for
third place. Havaspot may improve on that
showing—he looked a bit above himself.
* * ■ • • •
Pike completed a double on Rosendo (5
to 4) in the Parramatta Mile. Tantrum (6
to 1) came with a late run that excited her
supporters, but Rosendo was a length or so
clear when it was all over. Milantheon was
among the starters, and was backed, though
some bookmakers seemed anxious to lay
lam. He did not show up, but he should
be seen to advantage in one or tw 0 more
important Christmas races. Potent, a stable-
companion of Lucre, was third. And then
came the shock for Pike and the public.
He was suspended for another three months
for his riding of Kooraman, the stewards
declaring that he had interfered with La
Vixen and another animal. Rather illogi-
cally, they let the judge’s verdict stand.
* * * *
Melbourne stipendiary stewards, for their
part, delivered a queer ruling after the
last race (the Welter Purse) at Moonee
Valley. Metallurgy, a Rossendale colt, owned
and trained by King, started at 5 to 2,
after having been 4 to 1. Nearest to him
in the quotes was Wilts, a natty little stal-
lion from the Caulfield stable of Tantram;
the distance was nine furlongs. Peart-
fisher (7 to 1), whose sire, Harvest King,
landed the Australian Cup 10 years ago,
cleared out with the lead and looked like
winning until Wilts and Metallurgy joined
issue in the straight. There is a peculiar
bend in the running rail designed to pre-
vent packing. When leaders reach this
point they invariably swing in; not to do so
would mean the gift of an opening to some
struggling pursuer. Wilts followed the
fading Pearlfisher across to the inner rail.
A few strides from the post Metallurgy, who
came on the scene later, collided with Wilts,
knocking him on to Pearlfisher, who stumbled
as they swept past the judge’s box. The
judge placed Wilts and Metallurgy first and
Pearlfisher (a head away) third.
Then the fun started. Pearlfisher’s
trainer, veteran Buckley, protested against
both Wilts and Metallurgy, while O’Brien,
rider of Wilts, lodged an objection for inter-
ference against Metallurgy. Popular expec-
tation was that Wilts would get the race
and Pearlfisher second place. However,
the stewards gave it to Pearlfisher and placed
Wilts and Metallurgy second and third re-
spectively. Having thrown this firecracker
into the ranks of bewildered and indignant
backers, they reprimanded Ashley Reed, rider
of Metallurgy, for not keeping his mount
under better control. No blame was cast on
the rider of Wilts; but to warrant the dis-
qualification of that horse from winning,
contributory negligence should surely have
been proven. Every spectator was convinced
that, if each of the three had kept a straight
course, Pearlfisher would have been no nearer
than third.
On the whole, Moonee Valley results fav-
ert'd punters. Only one first favorite scored
—Valmist, at 7 to 2—but each winner was
well supported, Pearlfisher being at the long-
est price. Chrysocolla. from Sydney, let
his backers down badly in the Hurdle Race,
which went to Quck Reward. Two years
ago Quick Reward fell with Duncan in a
galloping event at Epsom. Duncan had a
bone in his neck fractured and was out of
action for many months.
When trained by P. B, Quinlan Mystic
Peak landed the V.R.C. Cantala Stakes and
defeated Greenline in the William Reid
Stakes, weight-for-age, at Moonee Valley.
His half-brother Burra Khana, who belongs
to the “F. Smithden” confederacy in Sydney,
was made favorite for the Two-year-old
Handicap on Saturday, and lbd into the
straight by a couple of lengths, but tired
into fifth place, the winner being Hap
(Drake—Truda). .. Valmist, who scored with
consummate ease in the Welter Plate, was
bred by E. M. Pearce, of Mollison fame, and
is by Valaisian (son of Valais). Evidently
Karomin has had enough racing for the time
being. Heavily backed for the Fund Handicap,
he finished far behind the place-getters • A. T.
Creswick’s Rossendale mare Mural Crown
had difficulty in withstanding a late chal-
lenge from the Adelaide gelding Income, who
is regaining some of his old form. Grena-
dier, half-brother to the Westralian Derby
favorite, Olympian, romped home in the
Highweight Handicap, for which Redditch
was backed down to 7 to 4.
* * * *
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Horsley Handicap: Gloriole; next, Dover
Patrol
Farm Handicap: Birthday Present; next,
Inducement.
Farm Novice: Lindean ; next, Freeze,
Leamah Handicap: Rogerson; next,
Circus Star.
* * * *
Weights are out for the Christmas handi-
caps at Randwick. For the Villiers-Summer
Cup double, this Page likes Topical (7st.
31b.) and Balgay (7st. 31b.); for the Car-
rington Stakes, Dover Patrol, (7st. 51b.) or
Gloriole (7st. 121 b.); for Tatt.’s Cup,
Pretzel (Bst. 61b.).
**. * *
“Ike Mcßagg”: There seems to be a
general move in the direction of legalising
shop-betting. Licensed shops have been pro-
posed in Queensland and Victoria, while Tas-
mania has gone in off the deep end and put
through an Act legalising bagmen and bet-
ting-shops. Bookies will be registered for a
fee of £1 by a committee representing the
leading racing clubs, with a chairman
appointed by the Government. The odds-
layers will have to hand over 21 p.c. of their
takings to the State for distribution to the
clubs. The betting-ticket tax will be Id.
on wagers of 10s. or less and 3d. thereafter.
—
Ins and Outs
mu, . - ~ r, , n . , , ,
Fn s„f o n g days of the first Test between
hill'll- , at Sydney Cmcket
' . J/, w , use crowds, and for the most
part all hands got their money’s worth, if
modsfX reS -n f lsepably , inadequate accom-
modat on in every part of the ground,
including the members’ smoking stand, which
seems to be a refuge for half the male popu-
FinXXn Though .Ponsford and
h nf Ive X Vi ° f i holr a l mirers '
XI wn if l ri f bet V r n C V me ’
tS pffe® to ° V a A/nX tnie -
A,‘ 0n an l, waa
HwXXtYsI r n far to +°°' t - e bat tmg of
tii V youngster rivalling, any
nmngs rve r playsl on the ground Hemade
RilhXlnlc V l l°\ and i hlt f l qn lo
whT lV a k m° Ck f -a a h Se L 49,
and helped, while the double stand broke up
the early ascendancy of the English bowlers.
Ponsford (32) and Fingleton (26) were
both going well when Larwood dismissed
them. Wall’s last-wicket stand for four
while McCabe was clouting the bowlers for
50 was another feature of an innings which
ended for 360 after four good wickets had
gone for 87. Of the English bowlers, Lar-
wood, faster than ever, is undoubtedly in a
class by himself, as his five wickets for 96
on a perfect, pitch indicate. Voce, though he
took 4 for 110, is by no means in the world-
beater class. Neither Allen nor Verity gave
trouble. Hammond took one wicket (Wall’s)
for 34. Sutcliffe and Wyatt opened for
England on Saturday morning, and ran the
score to 112 before Wyatt went l.b.w. to
Grimmett for a well-made 38. Hammond
joined Sutcliffe, and the pair, playing much
m°re attractive cncket than they did against
N.S.W., had 252 up for theone wicket on
Saturday night Sutcliffe 116, Hammond
87 n.o.
* ’ ‘ ’ ‘
On Monday the tourists passed the Aus-
tralian score with two wickets down, Ham-
mond having been snapped up-by Grimmett,
off Nagel, for 112. The third wicket fell at
423, Sutcliffe (194) going l.b.w. to Wall,
He and Pataudi (60) had been dreadfully
slow. Leyland went for a duck, caught by
Oldfield off Wall, and Australia’s prospects
began to look brighter.
Bradman got out of bed to bat for N. S.
Wales against the Englishmen, who won
by an innings and 44, and few of those who
saw him that day were surprised when the
doctors refused to pass him as fit for the
Test match. It is expected that the lad
will be able to play after a short rest. There
will be a further medical examination be-
fore the second Test begins in Melbourne on
December 30.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip” : According to Sydney Asso-
ciated Newspapers an insistent cry has gone
up from the populace for the services of
Arthur Mailey in the next Test. Mailey
is employed by Associated Newspapers,
which has offered to release him for his
country’s good. Even supposing Mailey was
eligible to play—which he isn’t under the ;
B. of C. and M.C.C. rules—why stop at him?
What about calling on Tom Garrett? I
am sure the Superannuation Board would
release Tom.
❖ ❖ *j»
■“Lord Parvus” : Prom newspaper comment
one would imagine that the present enthusi-
asm over International cricket was a new
phenomenon. This is how Melbourne wel-
comed the Australian Eleven of 1882, after
its return from a successful tour of England.
A torchlight procession started from the
Burke and Wills monument, headed by five
bands and 700 firemen and tailed by the
returning heroes and members of the V.C.A.
in two drags. Proceeding through cheering
lines of spectators, the circus traversed the
city and finally debouched on the Melbourne
Cricket Ground, where there was a grand
fireworks display. A newspaper of the day
described the affair as “a brilliant pageant.”
* =!< * *
“Peg”: While a lot of folk have been
hazarding theories as to what has caused
Don Bradman’s loss of batting form, one
plausible one seems to have escaped atten-
tion—his tour of North America, playing
against tenth-rate bowlers. Just as nothing
improves an athlete or games player so much
as competition with' men as good or better,
so it is that competition or play with
inferiors will ine vitably lower a man’s stan-
dard, and this has long been an established
ax j om 0 f S p o rt and games, from billiards to
brid „ e Familiarity with tenth-rate bowling
made Don—subconsciously, of course-
contemntnons of the real Mackav with the
, Mackaj, witn tne
’ *# * *
.. The Money-bug” : The English cricket
tour is sure to be a success financially. At
the end of the first four matches, treasurer-
manager R. C. N. Palairet’s share of the
receipts amounted to about £4000; reckon-
jng tbe ex p enses a t £20,000 (for Chapman’s
t0 * r they were approx. £18,000), it is pro-
bable tbat the feara will have a credit
aecount at the end of the second Test. Chap-
man’s team (1928-29) took away £42,000
o. a te-monev as well as the Ashes
” are mont y> wen as tne Asnes.
yA ,
I*l.(and IxarrertyJ rvules
Tiger Payne (12st. 51b.) surprised those
who had reckoned him a back number by
stopping “Pickles” Ilintz (13st. 51b.) at
Leichhardt, doing the job in nine rounds,
Trained to the minute for once, he made
things torrid for the sailor from the start,
and with a right to the chin drdpped him
on all fours in the third. A left to the
chin knocked Ilintz over again, but the game
fellow refused to take a count, and had
Payne punch-drunk at corners. The colored
fighter’s fists flew fast from then on ; Hintz,
however, punched with him until a round-
house right, drove the white warrior’s teeth
through his lower lip. At the bell both had
been fopglit to a standstill, but Hintz’s
lip w , as bleeding so badly that the referee
refused to let him come up again. It was
the most exciting heavyweight fight Sydney
has seen this season, and about the poorest
house.
* * * *
Against Lurich at Leichhardt Bonnie
Muir (14st.), the Melbourne Grammar boy,
proved himself the best wrestler Australia
has produced for many years. He got all
over the Russian from the commencement,
and the stability of the roof was tested by
cheering spectators when a short-arm scissors
earned him a fall in the third round. The
Victorian again wrestled more attractively
until Lurich scored with a body-scissors in
the fifth. “A draw” was the decision, but
Muir won from here to Portugal on points.
(Continued on page 30.)
“Splash”; If the cabled figures are cor-
rect, the claim of the Dutch swimmerette
Jenny Kastein to have hoisted a new
world’s record for the 500 metres breast-
stroke is an incorrect one. The time liven
is Smin. 23 4-ssec. At Manchester a year
ago, the English girl Glara Wolstenholme
swam the distance a fifth 1 of a second faster.
The difference may seem trivial, but to the
elect a record is like a legal fiction —a
solemn thing. At the same time these
alleged world’s records made under varying
conditions, and often without expert super-
vision, are more often than not quite unre-
liable.
* * * *
“Roller”: A Dutch firm is reported to
have evolved what should be a boon and a
blessing to tired cyclists—a pushbike which
is fitted, in addition to the usual pedal drive,
with an electric one. In appearance the
machine is very like an ordinary bike and
like it is chain-driven. The lower tube of
the frame, however, has been dropped to
accommodate the batteries which supply the
electrical power. A speed of 13 m.p.b.
maximum is claimed and the battery will run
the gadget for 50 miles on one charge. Re-
charging can be done from the ordinary elec-
tric light mains.
* * * *
“Bribie”: Queensland motor-cyclists in-
tend to make a bold bid in the Australian
Tourist Trophy events, which are to be run
on Phillip Island in Victoria on January
26. By way of a test, the Queenslanders
are staging a Grand Prix —the first of its
kind in Bananaland—on December 17.


outsit
Australia has
THE Australian Year Book satisfies your thirst for “general intormation.’
Its 384 pages are packed with the facts and figures about all phases of cur-
rent Australian life and activity, arranged and indexed for immediate refer
ence. So much book for so few pence has never been published in Australia
before! Get a copy for your home and office, and be sure a copy is available
for your children, to satisfy the eagerness for knowledge that all bright Aus-
tralian kiddies possess. •
SCOPE OF THE YEAR BOOK
GOVERNMENT AND
ADMINISTRATION
The Government.
The Navy. The Army
The Air Force.
The Bench.
Government Finances
Education in 1932.
Scientific and Industrial Research
REVIEWS
Articles, reviewing the past year
and touching upon the future, by
Rt. Hon. J. A. Lyons,
Hon. B. S. B. Stevens.
Hon. Sir S. Argyle,
Hon. W. Forgan Smith.
Hon. L. L. Hill.
Hon. Sir J. Mitchell.
Hon. J. C. McPhee.
Professor Copland,
and many others.
POLITICS
Latest General Elections. Federal
and State.
United Australia Party.
Political Labor in 1932.
iNew State Movement in 1932.
/PERSONALITIES
Biography Section:
500 Prominent Australians.
Decorated and Titled Australians:
The V.C.
The Order, of the Bath.
The Order of St. Michael and
. St. George.
-jrhe Order of the British
Empire.
Knights Bachelor.
Australian Privy Councillors.
INDUSTRY
The production of:
Wool. Wheat. Meat.
Fruit. Dried Vine Fruits.
Wine. Canned Fruits
: Dairying. Sugar.
Coal. Gold. Overseas Trade.
Basic Wage Facts and Figures.
Secondary Industries—Brief Re-
‘ .view.
Company Operations.
Principal Public Companies of
Australia.
The Building Trade of 1932.
FINANCE
Government Finances
Australian Security Values.
Banking. Exchange. Note Issue
TRANSPORT AND
COMMUNICATIONS
Railways. Motor Transport.
Shipping.
Television and Picture Transmis-
sion in 1932.
Wireless in 1932.
Post, Telegraph, Telephone and
Wireless Information.
Aviation in Australia
Motors in 1932-33.
Motor Legislation.
RELIGION
The Churches in Australia.
Church of England Bishops.
Roman Catholic Bishops. .
THE ARTS
Talkies in Australia.
Music in 1932. Opera in 1932.
The Theatre Wakes Up
Art in 1931-32.
RACING
Racing Season 1931-32.
Racehorse Records.
A Year of the Tote.
Phar Lap’s Record.
Huge Winnings by Racehorses
Here and Overseas.
Results of Principal Races in
Australia since 1912.
CRICKET
Seeking the. Ashes.
Who's Who of the English Side.
Test Cricket Statistics.
English XL Itinerary.
Don Bradman’s Records.
Cricket Season of 1931-32.
Sheffield Shield Statistics, Etc.
FOOTBALL
Rugby League Tests in 1932.
Rugby Union Football.
Australian Rules Football in 1932.
Soccer in 1932.
OTHER SPORTING
ACTIVITIES
Tennis—Davis Cup
Tennis in Australia in 1932
State Tennis Championships
Golf in 1932.
World’s Sculling Title.
Other Sculling Events
Yachting.
Olympic Games Result-..
Records by Amateur Athletes tor
the World. Australia and Olym-
pic Games.
World’s Professional Athletic
Records.
World’s Swimming Records.
Australian Swimming Records.
Boxing in 1932.
ETCETERA
Gazeteer of Australia.
Population Statistics.
Fashion Survey and Summary.
Life Assurance iiv Australia
Insurance Other than Life.
Friendly Societies in Australia.
Weather in 1932.
Hospitals in 1932.
Principal Newspapers in Australia.
The Consular Corps Throughout
Australia.
A Statistical Summary showing
Australia's Progress since Fede-
ration.
w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
—every man who works
with his brain.
—every man who takes a
five intellectual interest
in the sports, government,
politics, business, regress
and general condition of
Australia.
—-every woman who likes
to be able to converse
interestingly about cur-
rent affairs.
-—every woman who has
children that come to her
for information.
—-every child who is
learning to think for him*
self or herself and has
a healthy appetite for
knowledge about the
affairs of the Common-
wealth and its constituent
States.
AUSTRALIAN
YEAR BOOK
Published in collaboration with “The Herald” (Melb.), “Daily Mail”
(Brisbane), “The Advertiser” (Adelaide), “Daily News” (Perth).
M
&
m
0.
r


■
■
Ml
PENS
MADE in ENGLAND
■Swan’ Pens Black and Coloured, from 20/-
•Swan' Minors from - - - *5/»
♦ Blackbird’ Pens from - - - 'W*
•Swan’ Ink from - - 6d. per bottle.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House,
London, W.l. Factories: London & Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot j
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
I(».r.)
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
w
.THINK OF
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuct
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office!: 44 Bridge Sireer, Sydney.
Wilkinson Safety Razor
MADE IN ENGLAND.
m
' fiUfilN
Hoaow
GROUNC
BLAO eS
EMPIRE MODELS.
Set.
E.7—Self-stropping Razor, complete with two
Hollow-ground Blades and Strop, in
Oak Case 14/6
E.10 —Same as E.7, with six Hollow-ground
Blades 18/6
E.21 —Highly-finished, Silverplated, Self-
stropping Razor, with six Hollow-ground
Blades and Shell Horsehide Strop, in
Solid Niekelplated Case, Oak-lined, 35/-
Obtainable at all Stores.
Wholesale Distributors:
E. H. COLLIS PTY., LTD.,
413 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne;.
And 103 York Street, Sydney.
I n c anrl Ontc
M „ w , , „ ,■
N.S.W. crashed badly before the English-
men in their match at Sydney Cricket
Ground, the men from overseas winning by
an innings and 44 runs. Following on after
making 273 m their first knock, the home
side were all out for 213 Voce (o ; 8o) did
most of the damage, only Cummins, the
North Snore youngster, who hit an attrac-
tive <l, showing any confidence against
him. In Adelaide, Victoria lost to South
Australia by three wickets, A ictor Richard-
son making _O3 and oo for the winners.
* * * *
“Sheet-Anchor”: Batting all through an
innings for N.S.W. against England, Jack
Fingleton added his name to a famous list,
Alick Bannerman was the first, and he per-
formed the feat no less than five times
against English bowling. Warren Bardsley
is another; he did it three times, once in a
Test match during the 1926 series. J. E.
Barrett (1890) and W. M. Woodfull are
others; Woodfull during that disastrous
first Test in Brisbane in 1928.
* * * *.
“Shrewsbury”: All this blither in the
newspapers about the dangerous char-
acter of Voce’s fast bowling pitched on the
batsman’s legs argues either a poor know-
ledge of the game or a poor memory. Dozens
of expresses have bowled in this fashion, and
not all from England. How Ernest Jones
knocked W. G. Grace about in 1896 is cricket
history. Yet these bowlers can be played.
Writer saw Ken Hutchings, here in 1907,
jljt '-Libby C otter twice over and twice to
the boundary in one over, and he had to
C’, . Lbein off his, eyebrows to make the
stiokes. And Voce s style is no new thing
IP -Australia. Has everyone forgotten F. R.
I oster, who with bin Barnes, chewed up the
Australian batsmen m 1911-12.
i ~ , *, ,
Aigburth : The Marylebone Club has
announced the dates and places of the 1934
Test matches between England and Australia
m England. The first opens at Nottingham
b- , Then come Lord’s ( June 22) ,
Old Irafford (July 6), Leeds (July 20)
and the Oval (August 18). Four days will
be the limit for each match, but if neither
side has previously won two matches or the
results are equal, the fifth will be played to
a finish. .
*, . , * * *
. "Maristonian” : St. Joseph’s College
cricketers rounded off a successful sporting
VERITY AND DUCKWORTH, OF THE ENGLISH TEAM.
year for their school by taking the G.P.S.
premiership. With another round still
to be played they are in an unassailable
position, their nearest opponents, Sydney
High, being four points away. Newington
is third, one point further from the leaders,
Jack Beaton, the college’s crack Rugby Union
centre, is making a name for himself in
cricket also: against Newington College last
week he took 3 for 40. ,
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: “ Jamwood’s” comment on
the shrieking hysteria which has overcome
cricket writers on the daily press (B.
30/11/’32) was more than called for, .
though, considering the general ballyhoo atti-
tude of many of these journals towards any
other news matter that looks like selling a
few extra copies, it is understandable. The
convictions of a lifetime were shaken to the
foundations when the Sydney “Herald”
joined in the corybantic caperings. but the
final knock was yet to come, and it has left
me dazed. The idea of Ivippax being left
out of the Test match made the “Times”
shudder” ! The Thunderer had riot then
heard of Bradman’s inability to play, and
now I am shuddering myself to think what
happened in the “Times” office when the
disastrous tidings flashed through.
Rarnuet and Bawl
Kacquet ana Bawl
The. US A. beat Australia in Brisbane,
On the first two days the tourists swept
the board in the singles ; then Australia did
a little better. McGrath boat Gledhill in
two sets, while Moon and Sproule downed
America’s Davis Cup doubles pair, Allison
and Van Ryn, by three sets to one. Vines
and Gledhill won their doubles event from
Hopman and McGrath. The final scores
were: America, 8 rubbers, 21 sets, 201
games; Australia, 2 rubbers, 12 sets, 177
games.
unr-il „ mi . ~ ... , .
. “Milton” : The Americans dislike barrack-
ing. In Brisbane Van Ryn, who has the
excuse that he is young asked bitterly
whether he was m Australia or Czechoslo-
vakia. But, at tennis or at. cricket, the
people who pay for the show are entitled to
say what they think of it.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The financial pros-
pects of the American tennis tour are
bright. The N.S.W. match with the tourists
in Sydney brought a gross £2BOO to the
kitty. So affable did the Australian Council
feel at this promising start—£lBoo was taken
at the Brisbane Test in addition—that it
has promised £250 to South Aus. for en-
larging accommodation, and £2OO to Vic-
toria for the same purpose. N.S.W. was
; ,ls 0 passed £25 for entertaining when the
foiu . th Xest is played in Sydney. Twenty-
five per cent . 0 f the gross takings of the
Australian championships will go to the
Yanks
'* . * * *
“Fitzcray”: Civil war is threatening in
Melbourne tennis circles. South Yarra club
holds an annual Christmas tourney and this
was sanctioned by the tennis authorities.
Then the latter ‘ suddenly determined to
change the dates of the Melbourne Test,
owing to the rearrangement of the American
tour, and grabbed those allotted to South
Yarra. The club has appealed to Caesar—
otherwise the Victorian association. If it
has to stand down, it is entitled to compen-
sation'up to £5O.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: The N.S.W. tennis heads
had a bit of bad luck over their insurance
against rain falling during the games with
America in Sydney. They took out a policy
payable if 10 points or over came . down,
On the two days of dampness only nine
points fell and the premium payers were
thus pipped by a short nose. Queensland,
which had a complete washout on the Satur-
day of the first Test in Brisbane, will collect.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Randwick”: Members of the Moore Park
goll club and the many unattached players
who utilise this Sydney Council public links
are ncd phased about a recommendation
that the pay of the caddies should be in-
creased from Is. 6d. to 2s. per round. The
council has not yet decided the question,
but it is one of some importance since the
course is one of the few payable propositions
run by the municipality. The point is that
the actual fork-out by the player is already
2s. 6d. at least. The man who does not
add a shilling tip to the fixed rate of Is. 6d.
at the end of a round has no hope of getting
a caddy as soon as he becomes known. Play-
ing two rounds means that caddy fees alone
eat up a dollar. Add green fees to that
and unavoidable incidentals, the player put-
ting in a day at Moore Park has no change
left out of half a sovereign. Close by, Sydney
Cricket Ground gives him an all-day view of
a Test match for 4s. at the most.
“Baffy”: One of the pup golf clubs which
Sydney is beginning to take notice of is
Strathfield, which started some little time
ago with the usual beginner’s nine-hole
round and is now looking forward confidently
to a full 18. A lot of work has been done
on the course during the past year, and in
spite of this the cash-box still contains a
few dinars. The acquisition of 60 acres of
good golfing country from the railways has
given the club a chance to spread itself of
which it is taking full advantage. Member-
ship is increasing and so is form. In the
beginning, Strathfield golfers were definitely
111 tlm mug class. Many of them are now
growing out of that,
* * * *
The annual tourney for the N.S.W. profes-
sional golfers’ cup was played off in Sydney
on the Lakes course last week. The contest
was 36 holes stroke winner turned
up in T. Heard, of the Kogarah club, whose
card read 149 for the two rounds, the last
of 70 constituting a record for the course,
Prank Eyre, winner of the 1930 Australian
open, tied for second place with C. Grey, of
Pennant H’ills. The latter is becoming
famous for liis run of seconds in leading golf
events.
* * * *
“Shirley”: It is more than likely that
A Shaw, the Napier professional who has
had hls own way ln M L golf for the past
few years, will compete iii the Australian
championships to be held at Royal Melbourne
next year. As winner of the Shivery Isles open
and professional championships of 1929. the
Napier pro. came to Australia that year for
the national meeting at Adelaide, tie found
the dry fairways and greens a bit too fiery
for him, and finished well back. On M.L.
turf, it is doubtful if any Australian pro-
fessional could better him.'
* * * *
“Susie Swattit” : There is a chance—a
little better than Buckley’s perhaps—of that
team of English golferettes who are to tour
South Africa coming on to Australia IB
3/11/’32). If they do, our associates are
going to see something paralysing Joyce
Wethered is rated by Bobby Jones as the
best golfer, man or woman, he has ever
seen, and she has beaten many male cliam-
pions. Diana Fisliwick. though beaten in
England by our own Susie Tolhurst, is
another topnotcher. arid so is Enid Wilson,
reputed one of the longest drivers in Britain,
man or woman. The fourth member may
be Molly Gourlay. All have won the
British women's championship and have also
done well on the Continent and in America.
Still, on the fast Australian fairways, I
fancy players like Susie Tolhurst and Mona
McLeod would shake up the best of them.
“Breeks”: That controversy over the
wearing of shorts by a Canberra golferette,
(B. 39/11/’32) for a few days quite eclipsed
interest in Lyons’s Financial Relief Bill.
Matters were getting near to scratching
point when the offending associate sur-
rendered and agreed to go back to the more
conventional garb. She didn’t do so, how-
ever, without handing the opposition one to
go on with; she said she “realised that
there were an age and a development
which were not flattered by the wearing of
shorts.” There were several persons among
her opponents to whom the remark might,
fittingly apply, but none of these could
think of a suitable retort until hours later.
Car and Cycle
“Formula”: The day is fast approaching
when the self-driving car will' be on the
market. Already we have the automatic
gear change, and a new invention . just
launched in Britain makes braking practi-
cally automatic, a button on the steering-
wheel operating an electric mechanism which
does the hard work. The device is simple
and cheap, and little current is needed for
its operation. Brake pressure increases as
the speed decreases, with the result that
locked wheels and skids at high' speeds are
eliminated. The device can be set to any
strength of braking desired.
4 4 * #
“Buzz”: Malcolm Campbell’s Bluebird is
expected to provide a problem when the
tremendously powerful aero engine is fitted.
A speed of over 300 m.p.li. is confidently
anticipated, and the question arises whether
the machine will stay on the ground
at that pace or become an aeroplane. In
redesigning the car weight has been brought
as far forward as possible, but no one can
be quite certain about what will happen
when Campbell “steps on it.”
4 * 4 4
“Firewater”: That process for driving
cars with water (B. 23/11/’32) is far past
the bounds of theory. In essentials it means
that the internal-combustion steam engine
is an accomplished fact. The Erren motor
operates on a hydrogen-oxygen mixture or
hydrogen and air, in both cases with or
without the addition of any other fuel. A
special electrolytic apparatus transforms the
water into the necessary gases. The sys-
tem at present used in demonstrating the
new engine on motors ranging from the
cycle type to the 6-cylinder h.p. car sup-
plies the hydrogen from high-pressure con-
tainers, but the inventor states that the
direct production of fuel from water is easy
and as satisfactory. Greater povrer and
less heating are claimed for the new fuel,
and it is odorless. Petrol engines can be
cheaply converted for the use of the water-
gas mixture.
4 4 4 t-
“Fitzcray”: An added attraction at the
Piiillip Island Tourist Trophy race for
motor-cycles in January will be the appear-
ance of the Victorian Arthur Simcock, who
has been riding in Europe for the past six
years, taking part in most of the big Brit-
ish and Continental events with considerable
success. Two other international riders in
Brewster and Pringle will also be in the
race, so something extra-special in the way
of times may be expected. Stuart Williams,
the Sydney crack who rode in the Isle of
Man T.T. this year, will not be a starter,
but Queensland 1 and South Australian repre-
sentatives will be seen in the Victorian
classic.
4 4 * 4
“Sprocket” : Among the cyclists who have
been creating interest at Sydney Velodrome
are Turtill and Lamberton, of Maoriland.
Like most M.L. riders they have proved more
accomplished over a bit of distance than
in the sprints. Maoriland lias sent us some
good pedal-pushers. D. J. Plunkett, who,
after racing as an amateur in the Shivery
Isles, rode in Australia as a pro., was one,
lifting, among other good races, the Sydney
Eight-Hour Wheel Race. Burton, Chalmers
and Jack and Dick Arnst were some of the
others. Jack won the Warrnambool-Mel-
bourne event in 1903, and Dick took the
Sydney Thousand three years later, before
becoming a sculler.*
Miscellaneous
“Hotham”: Melbourne’s annual Henley-
on-Yarra regatta was a great success, in
spite of the fact that for the first time for
some years no crews from other States
put in an appearance, though two N.S.W.
men fought out the Challenge Sculls. The
Grand Challenge Cup for eights was won
by Richmond, while the Stewards’ Challenge
Cup for fours went to Bendigo club. A
feature of the regatta was, as usual, the
number of country clubs competing, some-
thing never seen in N.S.W., which boasts
only one club outside the metropolis.
* * 4 4
“Blade”: The Nepean rowing club’s re-
gatta -at Penrifh (N.S.W.) saw the Sydney
club, oldest of N.S.W. rowing organisations,
win the State four-oared championship, its
first victory in an event of this kind for
20 years. Mosman, holder of the title and,
until this season, apparently invincible, had
to be content with second place. Sydney
winning by two lengths in 12min. 34 l-ssec.
for the two miles. Sydney also took the
lightweight maiden event, Mosman scoring
in the junior fours.
4 4 4-4
“Slide”: This year marks the centenary
of amateur rowing in N.S.W. and probably
in Australia. The first recorded race was
on Sydney Harbor in January, 1832, when
four amateurs and four seamen competed
in a match, the former winning. The sea-
men came from the ship Strathfieldsaye,
the same which brought Henry Parkes to
Sydney. Later in the year the first sculling
championship was won by M. Oliver, of Syd-
ney, whose son, C. N. J. Oliver, was later
a N.S.W. Railway Commissioner. The first
club was formed in 1835, and two years
later the Anniversary Regatta- began its
long run.
“Spinnaker”: Entries for the Forster Cup
race for 21ft. restricted yachts closed last
week. This season the race will be sailed
i n Adelaide, either late in January or early
the following month. N.S.W. and West-
ralia will not be represented. The Ma State,
which was the first to take to the new'
rating when it made its appearance in
Port Jackson, has nowadays lost interest
in it, and the once-considerable little fleet
has dwindled to two, most of the others
having gone to Melbourne, which boasts no
less than 25 craft. Tasmania, which has
handled the Cup on. several occasions, will
compete again, as will Queensland,
* * * *
,
Stand Off : I ranee, which was eom-
P, e( L Lo withdraw* from the international
Ltugby arana because of a rising tide ot-
roug l p a -Y. ail( L professionalism, has
announced that, the undesirables having
been expelled and the game reconditioned, she
intends to again throw her hat into the
ring with the British unions. Things got
so bad a year or so ago that, in addition
!°. bowing the I rencli union out, the Biit-
international authorities torbade affiliated
teams to pay even unofficial visits, the
spectators across the Channel vieing with
their players m handing out the rough-
stuff, verbally and otherwise.


m
leSfik
111
ill
<r
HSH.
N
mm
1
if
i r'
The Yeast
in Beer
will keep
you FIT!
FOR generations, yeast has been recognised by
doctors and laymen alike as a safe and reliable
corrective for the disorders caused by indigestible
foods. It supplies the necessary balance to an everyday
diet by stimulating the digestive processes and by
keeping the intestines free from dangerous poisons.
Yeast can be enjoyed in its most palatable and appe-
tising form in good wholesome beer. Yeast is essential
in the production of beer and it loses none of its
properties when it comes to you in the form of
this satisfying drink.
Beer is good for you because the yeast it contains
stimulates the secretion of gastric juices and has a tonic
effect on the whole system. When you drink beer
regularly your appetite is keener, your skin is clearer,
and fresh new energy and greater endurance are yours.
No matter how you enjoy beer most... as a sparkling
lager, a light dinner ale or pilsener, a draught bitter
beer, an old fashioned ale or as a good rich stout . . .
you cannot fail to benefit from its yeast content. But
you must drink it regularly. Even the best tonic known
to medical science will fail if you do not make use of
it consistently.
Drink beer as regularly as you eat your meals . . . and
drink local beer . . . brewed under the best possible
conditions by workers employed within your own
State.
DRINK
ŵ
BEER
REGULARLY
its good for you f
BREWED UNDER PERFECT HYGIENIC CONDITIONS IN YOUR OWN
STATE
TOOTH’S
TOOHEYS
RESCH’S
B-9--75


The End of the Depression
Comes with the Publication of
‘‘The N.Z. Artists’ Annual,” 1932.
In fact, the attitude of this famous publi-
cation is to completely ignore the depres-
sion. Just look at the latest issue.
Some of the Contributors —
David Low,
Hector Bolitho,
William Moore,
Jessie Mackay,
Harry Rountree,
Jane Mander,
Mervyn Skipper.
Eileen Duggan,
Tom Glove*,
Dora Wilcox,
G. K. Townshend,
George Finey,
Eighty-four pages of brilliant drawings,
stories and verse. 50 caricatures of
notabilities.
Price, 1/-. All newsagents in N.Z. and
Leading Booksellers in Australia. If you*
cannot secure a copy, send 1/1 to:—
PAT LAWLOR, Editor,
Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.
NEWS FOR THOSE
WITH RHEUMATISM
Quick, Easy Way to End a Painful
and Dangerous Condition.
Men and women who suffer from backache
rheumatism, stiff or swollen joints, lumbago'
sciatica, muscular pains, or bladder trouble’,
should not neglect the means of sure relief
now readily available. This famous means of
relief is Harrison’s Pills, the remedy of a
London doctor. It ends pain, stiffness and
swellings by driving out the cause. Uric acid
and kidney weakness are at the root of those
agonising and dangerous ills, and these harm-
ful factors must be got rid of if permanent
relief is to be obtained. Uric acid crystals
are “difficult,” but Harrison’s Pills quickly
dissolve and banish them from the system.
Likewise, the kidneys are soon restored to
health by this remedy. Hence, Harrison’s
Pills succeed in cases that have defied all
other forms of treatment, and many users
say they’re “just like magic.” Try Harrison’s
Pills yourself—your chemist has them in three
sizes: 18 Pills, 2/-; 32 Pills, 3/-; or 68 Pills,
5/-. Benefit from the first bottle or money back.
THE
lIMITEn insurance
(Jill I CU companyltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fere oil all classes of
Build ; ngs, Stocks, Furni-
ture,&c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Queensland’s Great
Morning Newspaper,
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
Is Read By Those Who
Spend Most Freely!
It enjoys marked popularity in city and
country alike —a widespread distribution
that is the desideratum of merchants and
manufacturers whose goods are everywhere
procurable. The “Daily Mail” will get
you results. It is read by all classes and
particularly by young married folks, whose
wants are many and varied. Its favorable
circulation position has been definitely
established. Rates, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
Stan McCabe, Don Bradman, Larwood,
cricket scores! If the problem of Britain’s
debt to America, or any other matter of
world-wide importance, was agitating the
minds of Sydney, male and female, last week
they hid it successfully. On ferry and tram
the talk was of cricket, and there was but one
Mecca to which the thoughts of all, and the
boots of most, turned. Mothers, wives and
sisters in crisp sports clothes went out to
the Cricket Ground in the morning loaded
down with suitcases bulging with sandwiches
and thermos flasks, and as soon, round about
lunch-time, as they decently could do a duck
from the office, the men of the family joined
them (after successfully negotiating a jungle
of 54,000 bodies and 108,000 legs) and helped
them consume the eats in the intervals of
Avatching the scores creep up. This is surely
one of the most picnic-minded communities
in the world ; whenever it is possible to eat
food in tne open air, wdiole families rush
forth with Avhoops of joy, a bottle-opener
and a hamper of food.
Kitty Dickinson, one of the star nurses of
St. Vincent’s, has put her cap away, and is
getting ready for her wedding with John Hill,
of McCrea and Hill, Sydney Customs agents.
The event is set down for an early date
in the neAV year. Kitty was one of the
sisters chosen to nurse Melba in her last
illness, and got on so well .with her rather
imperious patient that Melba in her last
days sang a few notes for her; she was pro-
bably the last audience that the great singer
ever had.
It is hard for old Tivoli patrons to think
of Harry Rickards as a great-grandfather;
but that’s Avliat he would be if he Avere alive
—and he Avouldn’t have been so very old
either. Harry’s grandson took the name of
his stepfather, John Broadbent; it was his
wife who carried on the line the other day.
In the new year Doris Fitton and her
Independents Avill say farewell to the Savoy,
the little theatre that has been so kind to
them, and hang out their sign at the Palace.
Perhaps the Palace will blossom under
Doris’s direction, and the two performances
a week planned by this clever little group
will have to be increased. At present the
Independents are the closest approach to
professional standard among Sydney’s ama-
teur groups, and already the J. C. William-
son firm has offered contracts to three or
four of its members, while Sybil Thorndike
took one of its promising young men on her
Queensland tour. A revival of “And So to
Bed” will be the first production at the
Palace.
The Painter-Etchers had a day out last
week, when their yearly exhibition was
opened. The Macleod Gallery houses the col-
lection of etchings, woodcuts and aquatints,
and there is a suggestion of coolness about
the tall trees, the palms, the lakes and the
creeks done in this passionless medium very
grateful to the beholder these hot December
days. “Heaven be thanked,” said Howard
Hinton, a noted lover of color, to this writer,
“that there are still black-and-whites in the
world.”
The Gallery was comfortably crowded for
the opening, which was done Avith neatness
and dispatch by Earl Beauchamp, who wore
the most beautiful green tie with his light-
colored suit. He paid a pretty tribute to the
work on the walls, saying that there Avas no
capital in the world that wouldn’t have a
right to be proud of such an exhibi-
tion. Then he emphasised lioav much Austra-
lian art owed to Julian Ashton; and then
Julian, a study in soft greys, spoke in his
silver thread of a voice. He drew a thumbnail
sketch of the Earl Beauchamp who came,
a very young man, to govern this State.
Squire Morgan had already told the listeners
that the Earl, in addition to his other
gifts, is an artist and has exhibited in the
Royal Academy.
Mrs. Tom Rolin was an early arrival, and
Violet Roche shepherded a party in which
were actor John Woods (who goes off to
London on Saturday to learn all the tricks
of the trade) and the Godson couple. She wore
an old-fashioned “sailor” and looked terribly
attractive under it. Louise Mack, D. K.
Souter and Jimmy Jackson, Oswald Clieeke,
Mrs. Wallace Nelson and Mrs. Le Maistre
Walker Avere others who conscientiously did
the show’. Isabel Fraser brought her mother,
and hobnobbed with shy D. L. Friend, an
intimate of theirs since childhood, when he
used to carve the most intricate and beauti-
ful designs on coins. Two interesting names
on the walls are Vernon Hilder and Brian
O’Reilly, the first a son of Australia’s poet
in color, the second a son of that writer off
exquisite prose Dowell O’Reilly.
There are four women exhibitors: Ella
Dwyer, who shows a bookplate of Lady
Game’s; Helen Farmer, whose one exhibit
is a seascape from Bradley’s Heas ; Sheila
McDonald, who recaptures the glamor of old
Parramatta in her Lennox Bridge and Eliza-
beth Farm House; and Molly O’Shea (really
Mrs. Mountain), who has also been capti-
vated by the first capital and has specialised
on The King’s School and Lennox Bridge.
From Norfolk Island comes word to The
Bulletin of the passing of Margaret Moore,
the brilliant and the big-hearted: “On the
morning of November 5, Margaret Moore,
journalist, well-known for many years on the
Sydney and Melbourne papers, died of pneu-
monia. She had lived for the last four
yeai’s on Norfolk Island, and was one of the
most popular residents. For the past two
years she acted as local agent for several
fruit merchants both in Sydney and Auck-
land, and her shipments of bananas were
almost invariably larger than those of her
competitors. She had a most persuasive
manner allied to a keen business brain, and
it was seldom that she left a banana plan-
tation without the promise of all fruit going
forward on the next steamer. Her last
interest was connected with the establishing
on the Island of our first local newspaper,
published weekly under the title of the ‘Nor-
folk Island Weekly News,’ and she assisted
the young proprietor in the producing of a
readable paper. She set the little publica-
tion on its feet with a typewritten sheet run
off on a duplicator. She had established her-
self in a spacious old house, dating from
early days, and transformed it with the aid
of casual furniture, cretonnes and cushions,
for which she had a passion. That house
was open to all the lost and lonely, and for
them, as for many other residents here, the
Island is poorer for her passing.”
This week Sydney will become acquainted
with Mrs. R. C. Dalglish, wife of Rear-
Admiral Dalglish, who arrives by the Orama.
Mrs. Dalglish,
who is Eng-
lish, will pro-
bably make
her first Aus-
tralian home
in Riversdale
at Bow r a 1
with twin
daughters
Marie Louise
and Valerie
Jean and
small so n
Alec Charles.
There is a bud-
ding admiral
in the family
in the eldest
son James, a
midshipman on
the Enterprise.
The admiral
is one of the
Goulburn Dal-
glishs; his wife is related on the English side
of the family to the Stephen clan.
Ida Leason, the first of her sex to hold
the. job of Mitchell Librarian, was away
holidaying in Melbourne when the trustees
were arriving at their momentous decision.
Not until to-day does she return to Sydney
and her responsibilities. Ida is not only
learned, but is very popular with the other
members of the staff, who are enthusiastic
over her capabilities. She has a wide know-
ledge of Australiana. A new position has
been created in the Macquarie-street treasure
house, that of deputy-principal librarian,
fl his will be filled by J. W. Metcalfe.
Sydney probably doesn’t hold a more
friendly and agreeable group of women
banded together for good than the Cumber-
land branch of the Country Women’s Asso-
ciation. They are splendid workers, too, as
is evidenced by the list of welfare institu-
tions helped financially during the year just
ended. Last week there was an annual
meeting, and nobody was a bit surprised when
Mrs. F. C. Fanning emerged as president for
the third successive year. She was presented
with a crystal vase and a basket of blue and
gold flowers made by one of the members,
Mrs. Morton Goble. Retiring secretary Mrs.
Beresford received sheaves of flowers from
Mrs. Fanning and the members, and Mrs
Val Osborne and Mrs. A. E. Mclntosh were
among others who carried an armful of
fragrance away with them. Mrs. G, F.
Hawkey is the secretary for the coming
year.
A hundred or so of Pearl Sheldon’s friends
foregathered in Anthony Horderns’ Gallery
last week for the opening of her show of
water-colors and oils. This will probably
be the last exhibition Pearl will hold before
she leaves for another ramble through
Europe. This artist gets a great effect in
her oils by her use of the palette knife; this
gives a vividness and forcefulness very not-
iceable in such pictures as “The Farm House”
and “Rose Bay.” “The Card Room” and
“Alice’s Looking Glass” are two interiors
full off light and warmth; while “Cloisters,”
Christ Church, Oxford, has an impressive
dignity. Pearl is one of the clever Sheldon
family and has for brothers knight Mark
and Dr. Stratford Sheldon. Her pictures
have appeared at many European exhibi-
tions, among them the Royal Academy, the
Paris Salon and the Walker Art Gallery.
There was a great roll-up to the Arts Club
the other day when Mrs. Iva Clarke was
entertained by the representatives of various
women’s organisations. Mrs. Clarke, who
is the owner of a rich singing voice, has
always been generous in lending her talents
in the cause of charity, especially when the
welfare of women and children is con-
cerned. Mrs. Florence Taylor presided, and
among the speakers was Mrs. Ti’efle. The
guest, who sang among other numbers Alfred
Hill’s Poi song (she’s a Maorilander her-
self), wore chiffons patterned in brown
leaves and a small berry-brown hat.
This arresting-looking lady is the wife of
John Maynard Hedstrom, head of the best-
known busi-
ness house in
Fiji. He is
now the senior
member of the
Legislative
Council of
Fiji, as well
as a member
of the Execu-
tive Council.
His lady is
equipped to
keep pace
with his busi-
ness and poli-
tical activities,
for as Joyce
Beau c h a m p
(she’s a Syd-
neyite and re-
lated to the
old-established
Laurence law
firm), she was
for a time the knight’s secretary. She is
one of Fiji’s most successful hostesses, and
her hats would be looked at a second time in
Bond-street or on Fifth-avenue. A Dorothy
Welding photo.
Many Sydney women who’ve been visitors
to Brisbane have happy memories of the
late Mrs. Cecil Palmer, of Palma Rosa,
Hamilton. A daughter of Captain T. LI.
Barron, of Barron Falls celebrity, she mar-
ried a son of a one-time Queensland Premier
—Arthur Palmer. Her pretty face, kind
heart and innumerable charities and the open-
house hospitality of Palma Rosa (where
Sydney friends were welcome at any time)
endeared Mrs. “Cecil” to a legion of friends.
While Sir Philip Game was presiding at
the annual general meeting of St. Luke’s the
other afternoon, Tresillian North Mother-
craft School had its new wing, the Deborah
Mary, blessed by Lady Game. This wing
will be devoted to the care of premature
babies, for which Tresillian is already far-
famed. It is the only department of its kind
in the Commonwealth, is equipped to the
last minute, and is the gift of an anony-
mous friend whose baby had been treated
at Tresillian. The function, which was pre-
ceded by the annual meeting of the Royal
Society for the Welfare of Mothers and
Babies, drew over 200 enthusiasts to the
heights of Willoughby, and president W. G.
Layton got through the business in work-
manlike fashion. In the 12 months just
ended 7891 mothers and babies have been
treated in the out-patients’ department of
Tresillian; and from the Tresillian train-
ing ground no fewer than 50 Royal Welfare
nurses, six mothercraft nurses and one
Froebel nurse were turned out, complete with
certificates, during the year. There is now
a Tresillian army of 544 nurses to battle
on behalf of young Australia.
This year the kiddies’ party on the Strath-
naver was the success the committee always
expects it to be. The merry-making is an
old-established before-Christmas money-
spinner to aid the adult deaf and dumb,
and the organisers always vamp one of the
big shipping companies to lend a ship and
a band qr two. Under the expert direction
of Mrs. Roystone Davey there was bridge
for grown-ups, whose offspring were disport-
ing themselves on the deck with competition
games and an Aunt Sally, or taking a dip
in the ship’s swimming pool. Some grown-
ups even had a turn or two of jazz, and
mothers following the directing finger of
youth clustered around the doll stall. Here
a novelty was a lady doll whose skirt was
really a receptacle for soiled hankies. Next
door was the flower stall. This was run by
Mrs. Harry Dransfield (who, with Mrs. Roy-
stone Davey, organised the party) and Mrs.
Hagon, and had its three sides bordered
with window-boxes in which choice plants
and flowers from Centennial Park bloomed
and grew. This stall was a riot of color ;
roses, carnations, gladioli and November
lilies arose in magnificence while cornflowers
and lily of the valley smiled shyly on the
beholder. The Governor’s lady arrived about
four o’clock with Miss Crowdy, and they
were escorted into tea by the committee and
by Commander B. J. Ohlson, the captain of
the Strathnaver. the Mackay Sim couple,
Mayoress Walder, Chief Justice Philip
Street’s lady and the president of the society.
William Brooks.
That great music-lover Mrs. Walter Swin-
son is giving a musical party on Friday at
her Turramurra home, with the particular
object of trying to revive music as a medium
of entertaining in Sydney. Already several
well-known hostesses have enrolled them-
selves as disciples and have promised to
make music the principal item in their 1933
parties. _ This movement is one that is sadly
needed in Sydney, where musicians, except
of the, jazz-band variety, receive practically
no engagements other than concert work.
The death of Percy Lamb last week has
thrown half of social Sydney into mourning.
He was a brother of the late Mrs. Arthur
Allen, and so had a host of nephews and
nieces in Sydney. Ernest Lamb, K.C..
Neville Dangar, who helped the MacCormiek
knight to sail his yacht to Australia the
other day, and R. R. Dangar, owner of
Peter Pan, were cousins. G. O. Allen, the
English cricketer, can also claim a sort of
relationship. His mother was Pearl Allen,
another of the dead man’s innumerable
cousins. Percy Allen was a large, stout,
much-liked character who had been asso-
ciated with the R.A.S. (of which he was
vice-president) and coursing at Rooty Hill,
where his home was, during the greater part
of his busy life. He was one of the Union
Club’s oldest and most popular members.
How this Sydney lures us, one and all!
Hear what a stranger in our midst wrote
about her a few days ago. He is Captain
Priamo Bruzzo da Novi, and Sydney should
be kind to him, for he has sung her praises
as ardently as ever troubadour of old hymned
his lady: “I hope you will forgive me for
pestering you again with verses, but truly
I am only half-guilty. The other culprit is
this wonderful Sydney of yours, so beauti-
ful and so intoxicating as to make lovers
and singers and poets and fools out of other-
wise quite harmless beings.” And then here
follows evidence of the infatuation:—
But here, down here,
The sunny Christmas of Sydney;
Patches of blue, deep blue,
Wonderful blue,
Through foliage of emerald green;
Beaches happy with voices,
The voices that are so clear
In this enchanted City,
And tireless cigalas
Happy with rhythmical heath;
And everywhere flowers,
Pink, yellow, red, lilac, blue, violet,
Everywhere.
Bananaland bits: —
At Ascot races Lady Wilson, just back from the
South, carried a scarlet parasol with her costume of
brown and beige and brown hat; the Blair lady had
a black hat with her wine-red gown; Dorothea Collins
chose brown and beige; Nan North was in brown
with a golden scarf; Mrs. W. E. H. Cass (Mel-
bourne) wore blue, rose and grey taffetas with a
navy hat. Brigadier and Mrs. E. M. Ralph and
the A. E. Moores and the M. S. Herrings were
present.
The Governor saw the lawn tennis at the
Milton courts. The v.-r.’s were received by
President Maldwyn Davies, of Q.L.T.A., and Mrs.
Davies. The Mayor and Mayoress, the U.S.A. Consul
and Mrs, Preston were among others present. In
the morning, Mrs. Maldwyn Davies had a tea at
Drysllwyn, Toowong, for the wives of the American
players.
The Governor went to His Majesty’s for All
Hallows’ annual concert. In the vice-regal party
were Archbishop Duhig, Dr. and Mrs. H. J. Windsor,
Mrs. J. V. Duhig, and Dr. G. C. Taylor. The
Sisters of Mercy sent a special message of thanks
to their Exes, for attending the concert, the proceeds
of which go to the Mater Children’s Hospital.
The Church of England Grammar School chapel
was dressed in shasta daisies and pink hydrangea
for the nuptials of Henry Chayter and Norma Henley.
The bride, who was given away by her brother,
was in bridal satin and Brussels net veil. Marie
Chayter ’maided in apricot.
H. R. Kent was married to Zoe M. Jones in St.
John’s Cathedral. The bride, who was given away
by her brother, was in ivory chiffon with a cut
tulle veil embroidered in leaf design. Daffodil
organdie w r as worn by the ’maids, Mervyn Jones
and Kathleen St. John. Pink and blue morning-
glories decked Merrilees for the feasting.
Glory Burton, elder daughter of the J. J. Burtops,
Clayfield, is engaged to Eric W. Crooke, of Sydney.
Patrick O’Donnell married Maureen Noonan in St.
Mary’s, Maryborough. The bride’s ivory wedding
gown came from Ireland; a Limerick lace cap sur-
mounted the cut tulle veil. Noreen Noonan, in
yellow hailspot muslin, ’maided. The reception was
at Loretto.
Matron Keppel, of Stanthorpe Hospital, dead as
the result of a motor accident, was one of Queens-
land’s notable women. Her people were station
owners in the Charters Towers district. As a nurse
she showed striking personality and uncommon
ability and was one of the first Queensland nurses
to go to France in 1914. A brother in the A.I.F.
was wounded on the Marne, and his sister was
nursing him in a base hospital at the time of his
death.


THE BE/T XMAS 6IFT
THE 'ARIA'
c
r*<
&
r
From the Kiddies’ Pages in
“The Woman’s Mirror”
A Wonderful Colored Book
for 1 1- (posted 1/2)
FROM ALL NEWSAGENTS OR “THE BULLETIN” OFFICE
For Sale
A BEAUTIFUL Brick Home at Pens-
liurst. 5 mins, from the station. Con-
tains 2 Bedrooms, Lounge, Dining, Breakfast
rooms, Kitchen, Laundry, Bathroom, latest
fittings, gleeping-out. Verandah, large Garage
and Garden. Reduced from £l6OO to £1250
cash. Apply
A, WYLD,
•32 Lansdowue Street,
Penshurst.
GOOD information about newspapers can be
got from travellers. For instance, a dentist
who has been all round the Western interior of
N. S. Wales recently has been telling people how
be found “The Barrier Miner” everywhere on
his tour —at every station and homestead. Of
course, that’s no news to most of us, but it is
interesting to be reminded of it now and then.
“The Barrier Miner” has been published at
Broken Hill twice or more every day for the
past 44 years, so it is no stranger at any out-
back place in this State, in the real Far West.
&
&
«**
&
Bit*
<i>
**
BV
HILLIER’S
Chocolates for
©hrtelmajs
PRICES:
3/-„ 3/9, 5/6, 6/-,
7/6, 10/-, 12/6,
15/-, 20/-, 22/6,
30/-, 37/6.
POST FREE.
Send a postal-note, and your friend’s
address. Hillier’s will pack one of
their famous Red Boxes full of
freshly-ma.de chocolates and post
them, to arrive in time for Christ-
mas Day, to any address in Aus-
tralia.
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and mailed
to you the day they are made.
WARNING.— AII Hillier’s Chocolates are packed
in Red Boxes, but all Red Boxes
are not Hillier’s.
LTD.,
<62-166 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
199 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
HANDY HINTS for the FARM”
How Marty Sublets Does This
Shilling Book Cover?
Here is the Index of subjects under the letter S:
Saddlecloth .. ..
Safety first on farms
Saffron thistle
Saltbush
Saltpatch, to reclaim
Sand colic, horse
Sandfly-bites
Sandpatch, to improve
Saw, firewood
care of
Scab
Scabby mouth
Scalds
Scorpion bite
Scrub itch, horse
Scrub tick in dog
Seaweed as manure ..
Seedplots
Seed, save good
how sold ..
Septic tank
Sheep, age marks
care of feet ..
to count
drenches
drought lick
foundered on wheat
mustering
35
10
77
12
14
33
92
14
21
22
46
57
90
92
33
61
4
5
4
15
18
51
45
45
46
51
45
45
ẁ
Eyery effort has been used to make the book of the greatest practical value on every kind of farm.
The experienced farmer will know hundreds of the things in it. It is the few he doesn t know or has
forgotten that will make it worth pounds to him.
Price, 1/-; by post, 1/2. From the office of “The Bulletin,” 252 George Street, Sydney; or from
any branch office: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; James Place,
Adelaide; 33 Barrack Street, Perth; 14 Panama Street, Wellington (N.Z.).


GOOD BOOKS FOR GIFTS
FROM LOTHIAN’S UST.
OLD BLASTUS OF
BANDICOOT
By MIXES FRANKLIN,
Author of “My Brilliant Career,” etc.
“BEAL HUMAN INTEREST.”
OLD BLASTUS The SYDNEY “BULLETIN” says:
OLD BLASTUS “More than a fine n0ve1.... The
OLD BLASTUS reader’s attention is caught at once
OLD BLASTUS by the freshness of the style and
OLD BLASTUS the naturalism and the humor
OLD BLASTUS of the dialogue, and it never wanders.
OLD BLASTUS ....There are some splendid descrip-
OLD BLASTUS tive passages..,. Nothing so good
OLD BLASTUS has been done in any previous novel
OLD BLASTUS about the Australian bush.”
OLD BLASTUS OF BANDICOOT,
Price 7/6 (post 5d.).
THE TEMPLE OF SAHR,
A thrilling tale of romance and adventure, by
WILLIAM PENGREEP.
SYDNEY MORNING HERALD: “The theme would
not have disgraced Rider Haggard.”
MELBOURNE HERALD: “A - , swiftly moving story,
full of incident and strange adventure.”
BRISBANE MAIL: “This first-rate story of adven-
ture— .brightly written, full of action and inci-
dent.., .should appeal to all classes of readers.”
THE TEMPLE OF SAHR,
Price 7/6 (post 5d.).
Other Popular Lothian Novels
THE CRIMSON FALCON, Nita Thompson
VISION . Anne Praize
VANISHING HORSEMEN . . A. E. Yarra
Price 7/6 (post 5d.).
DAINTY YET INEXPENSIVE GIFTS FOR
CHRISTMAS AND THE NEW YEAR.
REMEMBRANCE BOOKLETS,
Designed and produced in Australia.
SEVEN POPULAR TITLES, INCLUDING
LAWSON'S MATESHIP.
OMAR KHAYYAM.
EMERSON’S FRIENDSHIP.
At all Booksellers, 2/- set.
Send for complete list.
THE LOTHIAN PUBLISHING CO. PTY., LTD.,
No. 1 Fleming Place, Melbourne.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 403 of 1932.
BETWEEN ETHEL BLANCHE FOR-
SYTH Plaintiff and CLARENCE
GLENROY FORSYTH Defendant.
TO CLARENCE GLENROY FORSYTH
formerly of Holbrook and Cnrrawaunna
in the State of New South Wales.
NOTICE is hereby given to Clarence Glen-
roy Forsyth whose last known address was
at Currawaunna in the State of New South
Wales that a Writ has been issued in the
Supreme Court of South Australia in an
action in which his wife Ethel Blanche For-
syth claims an order for divorce on the
grounds of his desertion for five yeai's and
upwards and his habitual and wilful failure
during the five years preceding the com-
mencement of the said action to pay the
maintenance for his wife which he the said
Clarence Glenroy Forsyth had been ordered
to pay by an order made on the eighth day
of July 1924 by the Court of Summary
Jurisdiction at Port Pirie in the State of
South Australia and in such action his wife
intends to ask for an order for costs and for
custody of the child and if Clarence Glenroy
Forsyth wishes to be heard in opposition to
the claim for any of such orders he must
file an appearance in the office of the Master
of the Supreme Court within thirty days of
the publication of the latest advertisement
directed to be published in this action other-
wise orders may be made against him in his
absence.
DATED this twenty-ninth day of Novem-
ber 1932.
BEASLEY JAMES KEARNEY.
Todd Building, Victoria Square,
Adelaide,
Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
Kooyong clubhouse was the scene on
Saturday night of a dance given by the
Tennis Association in honor of the U.S.A.
players and inter-State competitors. Every
available inch was used for dancing, and
supper was spread in a marquee outside.
Helen Sage and Nance Howie arranged the
decorations—great masses of foxgloves and
larkspur in the corners of the ballroom, and
foliage plants filling up the fireplace. Pre-
sident Norman Brookes was there with Mrs.
Brookes, whose parchment-colored satin
gown had darker fur bordering the coatee.
Cynthia and Elaine Brookes danced in blue,
and Hersey was all fluffy white tulle and
satin. Mrs Vines chose white satin, and
Mrs. Allison was in satin of ivory tint. Mrs.
Van Ryn favored lobelia blue angel-skin lace.
Mrs. Jack Crawford had a sparkle of sequins
on her magnolia-toned satin cape that topped
a gown of the same material. On the Sun-
day all the visiting players were bidden to
the Norman Brookes’s holiday home at
Frankton for a garden party.
At the reception to visiting tennis-players
at Kooyong clubhouse, Norman Brookes,
president of the association, was supported
by his wife, whose cr§pe de Chine frock was
patterned in fawn and brown and topped by
a brown lacquered straw hat. Knight
Edward Mitchell was there, accompanied by
his daughter Mrs. George Adams, whose
silken suit and millinery were of ruby tint.
U.S.A. Consul John Dye and Mayor and
Mayoress Gray, of Malvern, were among the
guests. Helen Sage and Nance Howie, the
only women members of the house committee,
were to the fore.
A bridge party at Grosvenor in honor of
Mrs. Otto Wunderlich, of Sydney, was host-
essed by Mrs; Taylor Harrison, of Toorak,
who wore brown-and-white striped silk with
amber-tinted flowers on her tuscan hat. A
suit of fawn crepe topped by a brown straw
hat was sported by Mrs. Wunderlich.
Members of the Animal Welfare League
assembled for a picnic luncheon in Gilbert
T. Brown’s garden. Toorak. The weather
was ideal. Mr. Brown was assisted in
his duties as host by Muriel Norwood.
Among the guests were Mrs. C. Lort Smith,
Marion Montgomery, Mrs. James Purves
and Valerie, and Dr. and Mrs. Charles Perry.
. The final flutter of the jubilee celebra-
tions of the Methodist Ladies’ College was
a garden party at the school, staged by the
Old Collegians’ Association. Olive Dodd
(president) and Edith Barker (hon. sec.)
were hostesses, supported by the principal,
the Rev. J. W. Grove, and Mrs. Grove.
Grace Wilson, president of the Army
Nurses’ Club, entertained members at a tea-
party in the Botanic Gardens. The gather-
ing included Mrs. Chinnell, of Wbstralia,
and Miss Ralston, of Queensland.
Margery, daughter of the Arthur Glovers,
of Camberwell, exchanged vows with Sidney
only son of the late A. E. Bishop and of
Mrs. Bishop, of South Yarra, at Grammar
School chapel. The bride had a cloud of
old lace flowing over her trained gown of
cream satin, and held a sheaf of Christmas
lilies. Her attendants were her sister Ida.
Mary Reid and two Tasmanians-—Sybil
Lyons, of H’obart, and Louis Ritchie, of
Launceston. They blended with their pale
pmk chiffon frocks wreaths of red roses.
After-rejoicings were staged at Grosvenor,
South Yarra.
A theatrical wedding was that of Bebe
Scott, a sister of comedian George Wallace
and Captain George Randall, R.F.C. Both
bride and ’groom are members of the Nellie
Bramley co., and the knot-tying was at the
Registrar’s. The lady sported chocolate-
colored crepe with touches of amber. Nellie
Bramley’s gift was an enormous wedding-
cake, which appeared on the stage in the
evening. Many of the audience got a bit to
dream on.
Wearing a gown of apricot-hued velvet
and a straw hat of matching tint, Kathleen
only daughter of the J. C. T. Sibthorpes, of
Mentone, was wedded at Grammar School
Chapel, to Basil, only son of the Fritz
Harts. City organist W. McKie gave the
ceremony musical accompaniment. Brides-
maid Nancy Simpson wore a frock of deep
biscuit-tinted lace and a picture hat touched
with a darker shade of velvet.
The Cecilia Choir provided the greater
part of the programme for the British Music
Society s concert. Dr. J. F. Rudall con-
tributed oboe and cor Anylais solos with
pianoforte accompaniment by Mrs. Harold
Browning. Mrs. Burton, professionally known
as Minnie Bull, conducted the Cecilians,
whose offerings ranged in period from
Palestrina to Delius. Moussorgsky and
Gustav Holst. The Holst numbers had a
harp accompaniment played by Miss Vears.
As the Harbor City is to be the A..T.A.
headquarters from January ’l, Sydney
Pratt, general secretary, and his family,
who have been located in Melbourne since
1919, will leave on Dec. 10 and will make
the trip by road. Vic. District A.J.A. stal-
warts gave Syd and his wife an au-revoir
dinner at the Oriental.
. A gentle soul who had the knack of mak-
ing and keeping friends was Mrs. Arthur
Bailheu,' who after being invalided for
months passed out at the beginning of last
week at Fairlie House, South Yarra Her
dad. the late David Ham, of Ballarat, was
a familiar figure in our Upper House
between I§B6 and 1904. Besides Arthur
(whose responsibilities at Collins House
have increased since his brother. W.L,
became ill), a daughter and two sons sur-
vive.
On behalf of the hospitals the Commercial
Travellers’ Association on Friday conducted
at the Town Hall and elsewhere a sale of
surprise packets—all prizes, no blanks, and
such inducements as a motor-car, a wireless
set and a trip to Sydney for the super-
lucky. The bagmen aimed at collecting
£lO,OOO. A street procession burlesquing a
Spanish bull-fight was a feature of the pro-
ceedings. H. C. Tucker was organiser of the
well-managed effort.
At the Happy Holidays Exhibition at the
Town Hall, sponsored by the E.-S.U. and
Y.A.L., illustrated travelogues were given
daily, and shipping and other travel agencies
and purveyors of articles useful to holiday
makers were fully represented. Edith Noall
and Mary Sharp were the organisers of the
venture, which was launched by the Lud
Mayor.
Wet weather militated against business
at the first day of the R.V.1.8.’s open-air
bazaar, but on Friday the sun shone. Boys
and girls of the institute performed folk
dances in costume, and there were orchestral
and other concert items.
In the Cairns Memorial Players’ perform-
ance of “Smilin’ Through,” at the Princess,
leading parts were taken by Dorothy Bush,
Ella Bromley, Leonard McKean and Lewis
Pegart. Miss Bush touched up a well-cut
white silk sleeveless frock with a dash of
red at the waistline, and also wore a modish
gown of black velvet later. To Miss Brom-
ley fell the honor of wearing a crinoline wed-
ding-gown, the skirt consisting of myriads
of lace-edged white net frills descending from
a pointed bodice of white satin. A whole
avalanche of white tulle constituted the veil,
which descended from rosettes perched at
perilous angles upon the bride’s curls.
In “The Silver Cord,” which Melbourne
saw for the first time on Saturday night,
Dame Thorndike makes her first appearance
—she plays the jealous mother —in a velvet
gown of sands-of-Lido hue and a rakish-look-
ing little hat of darker tone. Later in the
play she dons beige satin with coatee of
lace a shade deeper. Phyllis Best’s lettuce-
green chiffon evening frock implants envy
in the heart of every flapper. In the same
act Zillah Carter wears a clinging gown of
blue-purple georgette. Among the first-
nighters were the Dudley Bruntons, Mrs.
H. S. K. Ward, Dr. and Mrs. Shaw, the
Frank Taits and the Louis Nelkins. Robert
Best and his lady occupied a stalls box.
In the Proscenium Club’s performance of
J. H. Turner’s comedy ‘The Spot on the
Sun,” the stage setting was charming—a
boudoir whose doors opened upon a balcony
overlooking a very blue sea, with which was
contrasted a red-and-white awning. Madame
Marguerite Cockerton, who was in the lead-
ing role, sported a black crepe Romaine
skirt that had frills of black velvet and was
topped with a creamy chiffon blouse and a
frilled fichu.
Dr. Ethel Osborne has returned after an
absence of nearly 18 months in Europe,
where she has been attending conferences.
She was twice substitute delegate to the
League of Nations Assembly.
Mrs. Branscombe, widow of the English
tenor and entrepreneur Edward Branscombe,
returned to Melbourne in the Moreton Bay
on Friday and intends to remain in Aus-
tralia.
Jack Cato made this picture of Mrs.
Marguerite Callaway Mahood, who has
recently made
a stir in art
circles with
her show of
pottery. She
is primarily a
painter, and is
making her
first essays in
ceramics, but
she is very
thorough, pre-
paring h e r
own clay and
glazes and
doing her
own firing.
She shows
examples of
double - filigree
faience, which
has never be-
fore been
attempted by
an Australian
potter. Mrs. Mahood is known to listeners-
in, having given series of talks on art
through 3LO.
A new fad is to have supper- and after-
noon-tea cloths bearing the same pattern as
the china used for the meal. The Royal
Doulton used in one instance has a modern-
ist design in curves in orange, yellow and
pale green upon a deep ivory ground, and
the creamy linen cloth reproduces the design
in its border. The matching craze includes
such etceteras as toast-rack and cruets.
Singing with the angelic choir is Madame
Maggie Stirling, a one-time Melbourne vocal-
ist of distinction. She spent eight years
on the concert platform in the Cold Land,
and her voice, a beautiful contralto, brought
large sums to Australian war-time charities.
A son was killed while serving with the 38th
Battalion.
Clive Carey, lately teacher of singing at
Adelaide Conservatorium, has been offered
a Professorship at Cincinnati (U.S.A.) Con-
servatorium, where Eugene Goossens is con-
ductor. He declined it, preferring to stay
with the Royal College of Music in London.
Mrs. Arthur Yencken, Joyce Russell that
was, daughter of the late George Russell
and of Mrs. G. Blackwood, of Langi Willi,
Skipton, arrived from Europe by the Orsova
on a visit to her mother. She is accompa-
nied by her husband, Major Yencken. who
is attached to the British Embassy at Berlin.
Julia Flynn, assistant chief inspector of
secondary schools, who is back after a nine
months’ tour abroad, relates that, at a school
which she visited in the U.S.A., the head
said that the boys and girls wore allowed to
mix freely except in the swimming pools.
“And why not there?” queried the Aus-
tralian. “Oh, well,” was the answer, “they
both prefer to swim in the nude.”
Marshall Sumner, a former student of the
Uni. Con., who for the last five years has
been continuing his training as a pianist at
the Chicago College of Music, intends to re-
turn to this city early next year. He has
given several successful recitals in the U.S.A.
and has played with an orchestra under the
baton of Pei’Cy Grainger.
Nell Healy gathered in £4O for the Mis-
sion of St. James and St. John by a tennis
tournament which occupied ten or more
private courts. The finals were played
at-the court attached t 0 Mrs-. C. Cunning-
ham’s home, Toorak.
At a farewell to Matron E. Cornwell of
the Children’s Welfare department, who
has retired after many years’ service, the
lady was presented with a wristlet watch
and other gifts.
Margery, daughter of the late Norman
FalHner and of Mrs. Falkiner, of South
Yarra, kept an altar date at Christ Church,
in the tony
suburb, last
week, the man
of her choice
being John,
son of Mr. and
Mrs. Hamil-
ton Fitts, St.
Kilda - road.
The bride, who
inherits the
good looks of
her mother,
■trailed chalk-
white crepe
romaine over
which floated
a tulle veil,
pearls and a
posy of real
orange
blossom com-
pl e t i n g the
picture. Her
’maids were
her sisters Tempe and Elizabeth, with Joan
and Betty Trenchard, all attired in apricot
pink crinkled crepe and rustic hats wreathed
with real delphiniums. The aisle of the
church was bordered with tall white gladioli,
and Christmans lilies trimmed the chancel.
There was a reception afterwards at the
home of the bride’s mother. A Diekenson-
Monteath camera made this portrait of the
bride.
Tas. talk: —
The Hobart Repertory Society served up St.
John Ervine’s play “The First Mrs." Fraser’’ as the
final show of the year, and the last night’s audience
gave a hearty send-off to Olive Wilton, who, with
daughter Junee, left for a year’s trip to England
a few days later. Mollie Davern made an irresistible
Janet Fraser, and all the principals were good,
though the City Hall is a place where hearing is
difficult. After the last curtain there was a supper
party in the tea-rooms under'the stage/where many
stayed to bid bon voyage to the popular producer.
The Junior Nationalists of . the A.W.N.L. had
their annual.; shivoo at the league’s rooms. Mrs.
Claud „ president, received the members, and
music and a play-reading kept , things 'going till
supper time.
■ Lady Allardyce has beeen' extensively ■ “at-homed”
since her arrival in the Speck. - The Lyceum Club,
the Victoria League and the' Queen • Mary Club feted
her . within the week. . At the last shivoo about 50
members renewed acquaintance with the visitor
and the lounge was gay with exquisite roses.
Olive Wilton’s last “break-up” of her elocution
pupils at the Memorial Hall furnished an excellent
evening’s entertainment. Besides the usual recitations
and verse-speaking items, two short plays were
given. Mrs. N; P. Booth handed; out the prizes
to successful competitors.
The Geoff Youls hit upon a novel idea to raise
funds for the Anti-Cancer campaign, in which the
northerners are creditably actiye. The affair was
held in the Foresters’ Hall, Longford, and took the
form of a Pirates’ Party, everybody turning out in
his or her idea of what a buccaneer should look
like. Masks were worn till supper time! Saveloys
and mugs of coffee were handed round during the
evening as a mild substitute for rum and whatever
it was that pirates did eat.
Miss Thorold, Mrs. J. A. Agnew, Miss Robey and
Miss Propsting held an exhibition of art Work at
the Town Hall. There were some fine photographs
of local scenery, and a little book of clever etchings
by H. Burn and C. H. Robinson commanded a lot
of attention.
Adelaide items:—
The Port Adelaide Racing Club held its meeting
at Cheltenham in scorching weather. Dr. A. V.
Benson (chairman) and his wife entertained at
afternoon tea in the committee-room, the only cool
spot. Mrs. Benson yvore a leaf-brown and beige
patterned foulard toilette and an apricot-toned straw
hat. Mrs. W. P. A. Lapthorne, who has just returned
with her husband from a trip to New Guinea, was
gowned in a daffodil yellow and brown flowered
chiffon, and wore a brown straw hat.
At the Children’s Hospital Fete, ■ society was well
represented on all the stalls and the financial result
was excellent. Lady Hore-Ruthven, who declared
the fete open, wore a white chiffon frock patterned
in beetroot and a white hat banded with the same
shade.
Major-General Sir Reginald Buekiand and his wife
arrived by the Ghitral from England on a visit to
Mr. and Mrs. E. T. Barr-Smith, Lady Buckland’s
parents. Sir Reginald’s military career began in
1883 and he saw service in three wars.
Committees of charitable institutions worked hard
to make a financial success of “The Moon Dream,”
staged by the Operatic Society under Seymour
Panic’s direction. Every night has seen the lobby
of the Theatre Royal crowded with dozens of pretty
girls selling sweets, flowers and programmes. Iris
Hart, a girl with a delightful voice, played lead.
All the costumes worn by chorus and ballet were
designed and carried out by Mesdames E. Angus
Johnson and G. Dashwood, assisted by Grant Allan.
Mrs. T. E. Barr-Smith gave a farewell tea for
Lady Hore-Ruthven at the Queen .Adelaide Club. A
day later his Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven held an
informal at-home, ,and friends were dropping in for
a few last words all the afternoon. There was a
huge crowd at the Outer Harbor when the vice-
regal couple left for England by' the Orford, and
their cabin had been made a perfect bower of
flowers.
Westralia’s whack:—
Mrs. Max Way returned from her holiday in the
Other States to a busy week of packing and fare-
wells. Mr. Way has been transferred from the
managership of the Orient Co.’s Perth office to look-
after the co.’s interests in Brisbane.
The Historical Society came out of its shell with
a party, Mrs. Mary Farrelly, in green brocade
and a mob cap of lace, and Mrs. Southern, with
rows of ribbon running races upon her tarletan
gown, doing the honors. Guests who had the inclin-
ation to lace themselves into the frocks worn by
their ancestors were rushed as partners for the
Sir Roger de Coverley. There was music, and at
supper dainties which grandmamma was wont to
nibble. The Mitchell knight, who firmly refused
to dress up, murmured a few words of approbation.
St. George’s College sprung a garden party among
velvety lawns and gardens riotous with color. Those
with surplus energy worked it off with tennis and
clock golf, the R.S.L. band played with a will and
informal tea and cakes made their appearance early
in ihe afternoon. Malcolm Dick gave an interlude
upon the chapel organ. The James lady stood with
the warden, Rev. C. B. Law, and the sub-warden,
Rev. O. E. Storrs. Numbered among the guests were
Miss Northmore, the Archbishop and Miss Le Fanu,
a heap of professors and doctors and most of the
clergy. Colonel and Mrs. Manning, the Geoff
L> rake-Brock man couple and Mr. and Mrs. Darbyshire
were in the sprinkling representative of other
professions.
Sisters Dorothy Allen and Phyllis Maddock climbed
into the North-West mail ’plane on the last lap of
their journey to Hall’s Creek. The thought of two
years in that scorching place holds no terrors for
these Florence Nightingales.
Mrs. Henry Greig gave a party in the Karrakatta
Club to say “welcome home” to Mrs. C. P. Smith
and Betty, who have been sauntering through Ceylon
and the spicy isles of the Dutch Indies. The hostess
wore a wispy straw hat with her navy floral
chiffons, Mrs. Smith’s black gown was embellished
with emerald and Betty was fashionably striped in
cherry and black. There were posies for the guests
of honor and the tea tables were festive with late
gladioli and larkspurs. Mrs. Edward Hamersley,
Mrs. Ashton Martin, Mrs. McCowan, Mrs. Ivor Birt-
wistle and Mrs. A. Stewart contributed a programme
of music.
Leith Harford entertained a flock of the young
and fair in celebration of her twenty-first milestone.
The family mansion was a rosy glow of gladioli,
red roses, pink carnations and soft lighting. Leith
was garbed in misty-grey flowered ninon, Darrell
wore long-sleeved claret laces and Shirley was an
attraction in scarlet. Ethel Diamond, Clare Holm,
Jean Stewart, Jean McLintock, John Lavan, Cecil
Lamb and Ron Wilson were among the dancers.


Public Notices.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with any
Insurance Company Not Registered
in New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act
1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associ-
r* ations being owners, trustees or agents
for any goods or property within the Sydney
Fire District, and every other Fire District
in the State, are hereby notified that they
the Fire Brigades Act 1909-1927 has been
applied, in respect of which premiums are
paid to an insurance company not registered
in the State, are hereby notified that they
are required to send to the Board of Fire
Commissioners of New South Wales returns
showing the amount of such premiums paid
by them in respect of the said property to
such insurance companies during the year
1932. . „ ,
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before January 31, 1933;
subject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per
day for every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the
time such property was in any Fire Dis-
trict under the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
November 23, 1932.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act
1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required : to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales
returns showing the total amount of the
premiums received by or due to such com-
panies in respect of risks against fire during
the year ending December 31, 1932, within
the Sydney Fire District and every other
Fire District inj the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act 1909-
1927 applies ; less any part of such premiums
actually paid by way of reinsurance to any
other insurance companies contributing under
the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before January 31, 1933;
subject to a penalty not exceeding £5 for
every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the under-
signed.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
November 23, 1932.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
boohs are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
AN OUTSTANDING SUCCESS
By HUGH WALPOLE
THE FORTRESS
“....the rich variety of 800 crowded pages.”'
•— “Punch.”
[lmperial Edition.
A WITTY NOVEL OF BOHEMIAN
LIFE
By EDWARD SHANKS
QUEER STREET
“685 pages of good, energetic fiction.”
—“News Chronicle.”
[lmperial Edition
A WALPOLE OMNIBUS VOLUME.
Four Fantastic Tales
Containing “Maradick at Forty,”
“Prelude to Adventure,” "A Man
with Red Hair” and “Above the
Dark Circus.” With decorative
title-page and jacket design by
Rex Whistler. 936 pages.
[Dominions Edition.
The Marriage of Hermione
By RICHMAL CROMPTON, author
of “The Odyssey of Euphemia
Tracy,” “Portrait of a Family,”
etc.
[Empire Library.
“Jt is a clever study. There is no fumbling
in Miss Richmal Crompton’s characterisation,
and its complete assurance adds enormously to
the delight we take in it.” —“Morning Post.”
The Heartless Land
By JAMES STERN.
[Empire Library.
“The eight stories in his book have excep-
tional force, and are written without affectation
and not unbeautifully; they are the best work
about Africa we have had since Mr. Plomer’s
short stories.” —“New Statesman and Nation.”
Fever Heat:
A Drama of Divided Germany.
By JOSEF MARIA FRANK. Trans-
lated by F. H. Lyon.
[Empire Library.
“An uncommonly persuasive and illuminating
picture of the political drama of contemporary
Germany... .this exceptionally interesting
novel. It has been excellently translated.”
, —The “Times.”
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
111 l
wmmm
m
/m
.Jfl
S&SSBi
mmmmm
mmm
m
hOW t“'C33,^
QJ *
<<
C *<
*-r
q 5 z
= o
e*
mJ "!
L<
o?
o<
o
S’©
c/»
■ n
* Ql
- D
-t. Qi
o IS
o o
• 1
w
“Well, thanks to your good driv-
ing. here we are safe and sound,
Betty!”
“Thank Vauxhall, not me, Edna—
it’s almost impossible to be a bad
driver in this car.”
“I noticed your confidence. What’s the
secret?”
“No secret, Edna, Synchro-Mesh Trans-
mission makes it impossible to clash gears
on this car you know . . . merely release the
clutch and push or pull the lever to make a
perfect change. Then second gear is so truly
silent you couldn’t tell when I ivasn’t in top.”
• • •
This 1933 English Vauxhall has a six-cylinder
26 h.p. engine which develops 61 h.p. Drive
this Vauxhall and you will understand why
it’s called “the car with the silky perform-
ance.” Coachwork by Holden. General
Motors-Holden’s Ltd.
Consult your :
LOCAL AUTHORISED VAUXHALL DEALER
THREE
BIG FACTORS IN THE
PROSPERITY OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
WHEAT, WOOL,
GOLD
STUDY THESE FIGURES!
WHEAT.
1931 .. 41,000,000 bushels
1933 .. 45,000,000 bushels
WOOL.
1931 .. 208,000 bales
1933 .. 210,000 bales
The number of sheep in W.A. this year is
a record, the total being: 11,000,000.
GOLD.
1931.. 510,5720 z.
1933.. 600,0000 z. (est’d)
If you desire to advertise in the West,
there is ONE big: factor to help YOU
to Prosperity. It is Western Australia’s
largest newspaper,
THE
Nett Sales 38,00 u
Slmcs
copies weekly.
N.S.W. Office: Wing:ello House, Angel
Place, Sydney. 85690.
The Expert
View
Clk n.Z. Rcfme
THE NATIONAL SPORTING
WEEKLY.
The week’s activities in Racing,
Trotting, Horse Breeding, Boxing,
Wrestling, Rugby, Soccer, League,
Coursing and Whippet Racing are
reviewed in each issue by expert
writers.
Exclusive features in the Referee
are a National Kennel section, a
Sportsman’s Radio Log giving the
week’s Sports Schedule on the air,
and the Racing and Trotting Guide
to Form.
Year in and year out the
“Referee” leads the way in
Racing and Trotting Selections.
Prove it for yourself.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
Head Office:
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Special Announcement
to National Advertisers
On mercury
Tasmania's National Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
.This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
1 9 O'Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.


One Punch Patsy
By Montague Grover
Chapter XL.
ARE all you Australians as sudden in
their love-making as your bunch?”
demanded Luella as they returned to
her apartment. “Here are you and Patsy,
comparative strangers till he turns up, and
then, in five seconds by the stop watch,
you’re like a honeymoon couple.”
“That’s what we’re going to be to-
morrow,” replied Patsy from around
Phyllis's ear.
“Then there’s your friend De Vernay
takes about two days on the boat to
capture the girl every eligible boy in Cali-
fornia has been after for two years,” con-
tinued Luella. “And, last, there’s your
friend Mr. Cody.”
Buff looked aghast for a moment, think-
ing that Luella was going to tell the story
he had confided to her in the car.
“He’s one of the most enterprising sheiks
I ever struck—has been making violent love
to me ever since we left here. I thought
it was a case of walking back at one time.”
“I never!” blustered Buff, intensely re-
lieved to find that there had been no men-
tion of Gert. “I had too much respect fur
Mrs. Gaffney.”
“Now, don’t say that, or they’ll think
the worst. When a man says he’s got too
much respect for a woman, it’s time her
husband got the sleuths busy.”
Buff was more confused by Luella’s next
remark.
“And this Don Juan from the islands of
the South Seas—do you know what he
wants me to do? He’s asked me to go
to the theatre with him to-night! Do you
think it’s safe?”
“I—I,” protested Buff, blushing a fiery
red.
“I think you can trust him that far,”
replied Phyllis. “But be careful. He hadn’t
too good a reputation in Australia.”
“I guess you two’ll find it pretty mono-
tonous here by yourselves,” said Luella as
she prepared to leave after dinner. “But
Buff said not to ask you—he can’t get in
his fine work with outsiders around.”
“I say, ’ demanded Buff as they entered
the car, “what did yer tell them that fur?
They’ll think I’m one o’ them sheiks really.”
“Don’t be dumb,” replied Luella. “We
had to leave them alone to-night. It’d be
fierce to have us with them after being
apart for nearly seven months.”
“Aw, I forgot—straight, I did,” he said.
Next morning Patsy and Phyllis were mar-
ried at the old Mission at San Gabriel. All
sporting Los Angeles was there and half
Hollywood. De Vernay came down just in
time to be in Patsy’s corner —as the even-
ing papers put it—and a score of the girls
from the Otis Institute and the Toms Agency
gathered with Luella to give Phyllis much
embarrassment by the streamers they ex-
hibited as they entered their car. It was
a revelation in American customs to find
how loving sympathisers treated a marriage
ceremony; wise as he was to some of the
jokes, Patsy failed to notice the big poster
“Just Married” which somebody had pasted
on the back of the car, and it remained
there till they reached the hotel where the
breakfast was held.
In the afternoon Patsy and Phyllis
started off in Patsy’s car on their honey-
moon. Nobody but Luella and De Vernay
knew their destination. It was a secret
jealously guarded from all; they wished for
once to be free of the fierce light which
beats upon a world’s champion. They
dodged through half a dozen city streets,
made sure that they were not followed and
took the road to Riverside. Their rooms
at the Mission Inn had been engaged, and
they entered upon their married life. Next
morning they had breakfast' in the patio,
and strolled out to feed the ostentatious
macaw and examine the collection of bells.
“It’s fine to be here,” said Phyllis. “We’re
away from it all, my husband and I—the
world forgetting, by the world forgot!”
Patsy put his arm about her and pressed
her to him.
“Shoot!” yelled a voice from somewhere
above them. They looked up and saw half
a dozen movie cameras, with the operators
turning the handles hard.
“Kiss her, kiss her!” yelled the nearest
camera man. “They’re gointer show the’
pictures to-night.” -
Patsy was sufficiently discourteous and
sufficiently unbusinesslike to decline this
latest bid for popularity. He returned to
the office with Phyllis, checked out and in
twenty minutes was sending a plume of
dust along the road westward.
“We’ll make Santa Barbai-a—that looked
a great place as we passed through,” he
said. They skirted Los Angeles lest they
might be recognised and reached the hotel
at Santa Barbara in the afternoon. Phyllis
decided that Patsy’s description of the place
was accurate. They had time to drive out
to the old Mission, and after dinner went
for a walk along the waterfront. Next
morning they went for a bathe, discovered
the De La Guerra Studio Cafeteria and
motored to the Samarkand for lunch. They
returned to find the local reporters await-
ing them. They were photographed in a
dozen poses, Patsy gave a sleepy-looking
young man an interview, while Phyllis was
tackled by one of the sob sisters. Patsy’s,
they found subsequently, was adorned with
the heading “ ‘Kisses Better Than Punches,’
says World’s Champion,” while the sob
sister wrote a half column, seemingly the
work of a man, filled with frank admiration
of Phyllis’s face, figure and general charm,
and indicating that the writer had fallen
madly in love with the bride.
“Once more into the car,” said Patsy.
“This stuff will be wired to Los Angeles
and the push’ll be on our track by day-
break. We check out to-morrow morning.”
They drove northward and lunched at San
Luis Opisbo. “Where are we going to
finish?” asked Patsy.
“Let’s see the map,” she. requested. She
ran her finger along the line of the road.
Australia having now a book-publishing co. whose one job in life is to
provide the public with good books, as many of. them as possible Australian,
“The Bulletin” has had doubts whether it should continue to give space to
serials; but as the new co.’s output of novels cannot begin at once, it has been
decided to choose one from the supply of serials available, so that there
may be no break in the publication of Australian stories. The choice
has fallen on “Men Among Pearls,” another stirring tale of Broome and the
pearling-grounds of the Nor’-West, by Mrs. Drake-Brockman.
“Men Among Pearls” offers us some remarkably vivid word-pictures
of the little-known Nor’-West, and of the life the people lead in those remote
but exciting places, which hold the strangest mixture of races to be found in
Australia, as well as the queerest collection of splendid men and unscrupulous
rogues. Through it runs a strong story—with more “love-interest” than
might be expected, though, naturally, it is not always the placid love of a
garden-suburb. > '
There is no big industry about which the general public knows less
than this of pearl-getting. “Men Among Pearls” is a fascinating mine of
interest on the subject, with many brilliantly-written patches.
The opening chapters will be printed in the Double Christmas Number
next week—December 14.
“Here’s Carmel. Luella was there for thi-ee
months once. She’s never done talking
about the place. You probably missed it
coming down; it’s on a cockspur road.”
Patsy looked at the map. “Carmel let
it be,” he replied.
They reached the quaint little town early,
smiled at the weird but attractive stores
and houses, which looked as if they were
part of the setting of a comic opera, and
sought a realtor from whom they rented a
furnished cottage, right on the waterfront
at Pebble Beach.
“What name?” asked the - agent when
Patsy had agreed to the terms.
“Williams—P. D. Williams,” replied the
bridegroom, to the amazement of Phyllis.
“Right, Mr. Williams,” said the realtor.
“But you’ll understand that you’ve got to
get out in ten days. The place has been
let to a honeymoon couple—De Vernay,
the manager of that guy who beat Hooker
Fenner in New York the other day. They
say as he’s a lord or something in Eng-
land. Anyhow, he’s got the place. Get
me?”
Patsy winked at Phyllis. “I get you,”
he assured the agent.
“What do you think of that?” demanded
Patsy of Phyllis when the man had gone.
“Here’s the whole Republic for De Vernay
to honeymoon in, and he comes along to
this very place to push us out. The English
evicting: the Irish again 2 ”
Phyllis went round-the cottage inspect-
ing every nook and cranny. “This is the
sort of place I want us to have for our-
selves when we get back to Aussie again,”
she said. “I’m not going to have anybody
to help me while I’m here. I’m going to
start keeping house for you in earnest.”
As the night fell, they sat on the porch,
Phyllis in his arms.
“Isn’t it great to be married, Phyllis?”
“To you,” she replied. “It sure is. Too
right it is.”
Chapter XLI.
There were no further interruptions. Mr.
and Mrs. “P.'D. Williams” were permitted
to enjoy their honeymoon without reporters
or cameramen disturbing their love-making.
The big newspapers of Los Angeles and San
Francisco made a half-hearted endeavor to
trace Patsy and his bride, but public interest
was centred more on a graft scandal which
some double-crossed conspirator had spilled.
One of the clerks of the drug store cer-
tainly had his suspicions as to the identity
of the strangers. “That guy you rented the
cottage to looks mighty like the pictures
of One-Punch Patsy,” he said. “They don’t
act like an old married pair.”
“Not on your life,” retorted the agent.
“I guess he’s just some ordinary guy who’s
got this dame down for a few days. But
Patsy Quirk, nothing!”
“She’s a good looker,” persisted the clerk.
“The other sort don’t get the chance of
trips.”
“He might be a pug from the cut of
him.”
“So’s yer old man,” scorned the agent.
“If that guy was to get fresh with me, I’d
sock him one on the jaw quick.”
The argument was unanswerable and the
drug store clerk said no more. Patsy one
day made the disquieting discovery that he
needed some money and that P. D.
Williams had no credit in Carmel or any-
where else. He had to take his letter of
credit to the First National of Carmel and
spill the whole story in confidence to the
cashier. He was a sport, that man. “I’ve
never been a world’s champion, Mr. Quirk,”
he said, “ but I’ve been through the honey-
moon business and I know what it is. I
suppose you’re kept pretty busy just now,
but ‘if you should have a night vacant
I’d like to meet Mrs. Quirk and introduce
my wife.”
Patsy thanked Rogers, and towards the
end of their stay they visited him and his
wife and found them charming people. Mrs.
Rogers, it happened, had been at college
at the same time as Luella, and knew
both her and Gaffney well.
The time came for them to leave for
De Vernay’s wedding at Oakland.
“Patsy,” said Phyllis, “we’ll leave Cyril
and Edna-a legacy—something to entertain
them. Cyril may not take the joke kindly,
but Edna will, from what I’ve heard of her
and what I know of her people. I want you
to go to Carmel and get me a dozen sheets
of white card.”
All that afternoon Phyllis worked at
the cards, turning out a weird collection of
sketches dealing with a comedy honeymoon
in which an excellent caricature of De
Vernay appeared in the guise of the most
preposterous Englishman who ever figured
on a comic strip. Patsy himself was intro-
duced as a cross between a primitive man
and a gorilla, and the shades of Stephen de
Vernay and Columbus were introduced to
give atmosphere. From the name-plate of
the cottage, showing cupids flying about
the device “Newlyweds’ Love Nest,” to the
drawing of Edna as Eve casting down the
fig leaf, the emblem of marital servitude,
to demand her alimony from De Vernay as
Adam, they brought chuckles from both the
artist and her husband as she forged through
with her elaborate joke. The last visible
one showed De Vernay inspecting the others
and crying “Bai Jove; these Americans are
uttahly deficient in good taste.” But there
was another, concealed where the honey-
mooners would find it later. It revealed
the most preposterous Yank who ever
appeared in an English comic paper bearing
the words, “This isn’t the artist.” Then,
under a little figure of Phyllis herself, were
the words: “This is.” ' Below both they
wrote: “We’ve just left, you dears. For-
give us, but the temptation was too great.
We hope you will be as happy here as
we’ve been.—Patsy and Phyllis.”
“That ought to soften his wrath,” laughed
Phyllis.
“Right,” agreed Patsy. “But, cripes, won’t
he go crook when he sees them first?”
They left for San Francisco the same
evening, after fixing the agent to leave the
pictures where they were. For the first
time the agent learned the identity of Mr.
“P. D. Williams” and congratulated himself
that he had not socked him on the jaw as
he had announced did circumstances demand
such a course.
They reached Oakland to find that Edna’s
wedding was only one degree less important
than Phyllis’s in point of numbers, and
far more important in regard to the amount
of invested capital represented by those
present. As a wedding, it was much like
every other wedding all the world over,
and Patsy and Phyllis were content to look
upon it with the calm critical eye of the
old married couple. They saw De Vernay
and Edna start, gave a couple of laughs
anticipatory of their surprise on reaching
the cottage at Pebble Beach, and spent the
evening with some friends that Patsy had
made on his earlier visit. Phyllis had not
been, to San Francisco previously, and they
spent a couple of days there, taking their
return journey to Los Angeles through
Stockton to Yosemite Valley, where they
saw the scenery, fed the bears and danced
in the pavilion. From Yosemite they
motored south through Fresno and San
Fernando Valley to their headquarters.
“Pm not going to stand for that,” said
Luella when they suggested that they would
stay at an hotel. “You two have had quite
enough honeymooning for the present. I
want to see something of you before I go.
This apartment’s held three often before
and it’s going to again, so get busy with
your baggage. You stay with me till I
catch the City of Honolulu for your little
island home.”
They had both had too much experience
of Luella to dare an argument; Luella had
a masterful manner of getting her own
way in the most charming fashion imagin-
able.
After dinner Buff Cody blew in. Luella
saw him coming. “Poor devil,” she said,
“He’s the odd man out. He.’s been moon-
ing around the town with a grouch you
could cut with a knife. It was a mercy
when he had to go up to ’Frisco to the
wedding.”
“We saw him there for about five
minutes,” said Patsy. “He looked as miser-
able as a bandicoot.”
“He was all that—whatever a bandicoot
may be,” assented Luella.
But as Buff entered the room he belied
the stories of all. He looked bright and
debonair. Patsy had often seen Buff in
a pleasant, even an exhilarated mood, but
this was something quite different. He
looked jovial to jocularity.
“What-o, people!” he cried, a broad grin
spreading under his moustache. “Seen yer
at th’ weddin’, but ’adn’t time ter say
more’n a few words. I want ter tell yous,”
he remarked confidently to Patsy and
Phyllis, “this ’ere Mrs. Gaffney’s saved me
life. If it ’adn’t bin fur ’er I’d ’a’ com-
mitted suicide, straight. Without a word
of a lie, she’s a good woman, if ever I seen
one.”
“What have you been doing to Buff to
buck him up so?” asked Patsy of Luella.
“Just had a few confidential yarns, didn’t
we, Buff?” replied Luella.
“Treated me like a mother,” agreed Buff.
“But confidential yarns surely didn’t make
you as joyous and youthful as you seem
to-day?” suggested Phyllis.
“No,” replied Luella. “The last time I
was speaking to you you seemed to be as
miserable 'as a bandicoot—is that it?” *
“Somethin’s ’appened since. I’ve ’ad a
stroke o’ good luck—though most blokes’d
call it bad luck. It was you as showed me
the difference.”
Luella looked puzzled. “I don’t get you,”
she ventured.
Buff looked confused. “Well,” he began,
“it’s this way. I can’t say as what it is
before ladies, but it’s luck, take it from
me.”
“Come on, spill it,” ordered Luella.
Buff shook his head. “No; it ain’t fit
fur ladies like yous. I tell yer what. I’ll
tell Patsy an’ ’e can tell Mrs. Quirk an’
she can tell you.”
They held back their smiles, and Buff
went out with Patsy to the passage.
“Yer remember that there tart we met
at Coney?”
“The one that gave you scrambled eggs
for breakfast?”
“That’s right. Well, I jest got a wire
from ’er tellin’ me she’s got into trouble
an’ ter send ’er two ’undred dollars ter
get ’er out of it.”
“Well,” commented Patsy, “I suppose it
is good luck to get out of it as cheap aS
two hundred dollars.”
“But I ain’t gointer,” announced Buff.
“I’m gointer get ’er out o’ trouble meselfi
I’m gointer get her out o’ trouble th’ best
way a man can git a girl outer trouble.
I’m sendin’ ’er th’ two ’undred dollars ter
come acrost an’ many me.” '
Chapter XLII.
“I only hope she’s a decent girl; he
deserves one,” said Luella, when Patsy told
them of Buff’s proud confession.
“I don’t think there’s any vice about
her,” said Patsy. “Of course, she’s led a
rackety life there.”
“Worse than Buff has led?”
Patsy laughed. “Not quite,” he admitted.
“Then, where’s his kick?” demanded
Luella. “You men all the world over have
no sense of fair play in that way. The


HARPf s w ikes
r **
• i ** •
1., >.
f .»*
loltefi w?a«ler w)Kaf ibe
Vinitmsbw)
One halt so precious
as tne<*oods
ihe y * C,l o™rKh*»
V =spfe*
yam
►
i a
lr
V
W
!Vv N \
fc.
l
I Y
M
'/i \ *
■
**-■**«s
jfeX
>
•*Y
£ ' *?'"* -K I *^
<*■: /
■
■
0
i
■
i:
ZWJry*
Micnw 'y’J’- n ?w?iWijiWA: < >- - ■_.
ẃ
AUSTERITY OF THE AGES IN
The fame of Stuart Crystal has
Seen passed down through the
ages, gaining all through the
years fresh glory and power. From
generation to generation, father
teaching son, the tradition has
Seen carried on, every craftsman
etching the name Stuart on every
piece. Wherever Seautifulglass is
sold an exquisite example of this
Seautiful crystal may Se purchased
for no more than a few shillings.
GLITTERING
CRYSTAL . . .
' % .V.-. : v ''
miiiWfluii
IMj *<-%>£ "* r*
•^5?
«« |
....
K
«4?
1
Mr
Be sure to look for the registered name cc Stuart” on every piece you buy.
important thing isn’t who was the first; is
he going to be the last?”
“I think so,” said Patsy. “She’s dead
fond of him. I noticed her howling—
quietly, she didn’t want anybody to see it
—when she saw us off at the Grand
Central.”
“That’s all right,” observed Phyllis,
judicially. “If she’s in love with the man,
you can trust her anywhere, no matter what
she’s done before.”
De Vernay and Edna were back in time
to see Luella’s departure from San Pedro.
Her absence left a genuine hiatus in all
their lives—especially in that of Phyllis,
who had grown to love the woman better
than most people she had known a life-
time. She and Patsy inherited the apart-
ment at Westlake Park, and Phyllis re-
sumed her occupation at the Toms Agency.
Of her contract period there was still nearly
a year and a half to be fulfilled. Patsy
was for Phyllis breaking the contract. “I’ve
got enough now to pay them any reason-
able compensation,” he said.
Phyllis refused to entertain the idea.
“I’m not going to break my word even for
you, Patsy. You wouldn’t break your word
when you were East. I had to wait for
you while you were carrying out your
contracts with all those people. And now
you’ve got to wait for me. It isn’t as if
we would be apart all the time; you’ve got
that picture contract to start on in a few T
days, and, from what I know of picture
making, it’ll hang on for three months at
least. If the Toms people bring up the
subject I’ll tell them what I want, but
I’m not going to let them down. They’ve
been too decent to me.”
The Toms people did bring up the sub-
ject. As soon as Phyllis reached the office
she was summoned to the presence of
Ezra the Great. When she had thanked
him for the wedding present the firm had
sent, he opened by telling her how much
the firm appreciated her work, and expressed
the hope that they were not going to lose
it. He told her frankly that they wanted
to keep her on as long as they could, but
that tfiey realised her right to be at the
side of her husband. He concluded by
asking her to continue office work for the
present. But whenever she cared she could
work at home, and if she desired to tour
with Patsy at a later date the firm would
be happy to accept her designs on a piece-
work basis. But they did not wish
to lose her work, he made that clear. “And
leaving business out of the question,” he
concluded, “I hope you’ll be very happy
with your husband.”
With a girl to look after the apartment,
Phyllis resumed her place in the agency,
while Patsy was out at Hollywood from
morning to night being initiated into the
mysteries of moving pictures. Phyllis was
right about the time pictures took to
complete. It had to be taken and retaken
till Patsy sometimes felt inclined to throw
up the whole thing, honor or no honor.
Buff Cody, of course, was his trainer in the
story, and Buff’s new wife, flushed with
pride and eagerness to show everybody how
much she loved the big ponderous man,
was generally on the lot with him, ready
to take him to lunch and hoping against
hope that one day she might be permitted
to fill an extra part and so write to New
York to tell Jill and Ola to look out for
her in the picture.
When the picture was over, Patsy knew
that he could not stave off the ring for-
ever. There were many fights awaiting him,
unless his next opponent came out on top,
and, though he and Phyllis were eager to
return to Australia, they could see no way
of so doing without incurring considerable
money sacrifices. Then there were De
Vernay and Buff Cody to consider; their
fortunes were bound up with those of Patsy.
He could not let them down. To be sure
some—in fact, many—of those challengers
would certainly not materialise. The man
or the syndicate which puts up a big stake
sees to it that no outsider gets the small
end of the purse and the big end of the
advertisement by using his organisation. But
there were good men awaiting a chance to
tiy their skill with Patsy and they could
not be held off for long.
Phyllis and Patsy talked it out and
decided that his stay in America should
synchronise with her contract. They would
leave for Australia when that three years
had expired/win or lose. Whatever turned
up in the meantime, Patsy would carry
on. If he won all his contests, they would
refuse every other temptation and catch
the boat back to Sydney.
One day, outside the lot at Hollywood,
Phyllis met Buff and Gert, Buff as aggres-
sive in his pride as he had been when
Patsy first won the Australian champion-
ship. He introduced Gert to Phyllis with
the air of a member of the old French
nobility presenting Madame la Marquise to
the wife of the Dauphin.
“I like her,” said Phyllis afterwards to
Patsy. “She’s a good little sort. She’ll be
a good wife to Buff. And, Patsy, I envy
her.”
“Envy her, how?” asked Patsy.
“I thought I had everything in the world
I wanted when I got you, Patsy, but I
didn’t. I thought I’d be a graduate when
I married, but I’m not. I’m only a partly
finished woman, after all. It isn’t the arms
of a man around a woman that makes her
a graduate; it’s the arms of a baby, Patsy.”
[The End.]
The Day She Died.
There was wild storm the day she died,
Thunder like lions in the hills:
The river brown and foaming wide,
A frenzy in the little rills,
And lightning in its darts of fire
Looping the cloud with burning wire.
And I know why the tempest broke,
And why the river foamed and tore,
When she, who all earth’s beauty spoke,
Could sing its praises nevermore.
Men cared so little when she went;
Only warm earth its weeping lent.
For she had sung dawn’s gentle rose,
The slow and passionate heat of noon,
And sunset whose gold river flows
Across the pathway of the moon;
She 4iad crouched low amid the grass
To count, the white moths as they pass ;
Had laved her feet in opal seas,
Her dark hair blowing in the wind,
Delved deep in Nature’s mysteries,
The secret of content to find,
Had communed with a distant star,
And found her tired eyes no bar
To reading things men could not see,
The men of cities, dull and cold.
The flowers to her w’ere harmony,
And drumming bees, in brown and gold,
Were messengers the high gods set
In the musk hearts of mignonette.
But no man wept across her name,
No woman turned aside to pray ;
Only for these the sorrow came —
The mellow night, the golden day.
That closed in storm, as if to show
Earth knew its loss, she loved it so.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Songs My Mother Sang.
When I was but a dreaming boy
In Busliland ever fair,
Wliat brought my heart the sweetest joy
Of all the pleasures there
Was when the evening meal was o’er
To sit beside the blaze,
And hear my mother sing once more
Her songs of Irish days.
Her hair was black that now is white —
A poet’s mother she,
The first to strike for his delight
The harp of minstrelsy:
And this my tribute ere we pass
Unto the Silent Sea—
My mother was an Irish lass
Who made a bard of me.
Oh, silver was the moonlight,
And golden was the sand,
I heard the fairies singing
Who dwell in Ire-land!
Oh, freedom is a fine thing
For them who would he free!
Can you tell me, Shawn O’Farrel,
Where the meeting is to he?
Well, we would sit —the world was wide—
A girl “not long from home,”
Her first and only born beside,
With all the world to roam;
And if in mood she’d truly tell
Of that enchanted land,
Of haunted castle, fairy well—•
Her land, her Ire-land.
Ah, that was grand! Those great Erse
knights
From mediaeval gloom
Rode out to gallantries or fiffhts,
Went back again to tomb,
And left me ready for the songs
I always loved to hear
Of Irish rights and Irish wrongs
That live from year to year.
Her hair was black that now is white,
A poet’s mother she—
Do you remember, Mother mine,
The songs you sang to me?
“I’m Denny Blake from County Clare,”
And (fifty years between),
Do you remember singing there
“The Wearing of the Green”?
Well, let the Powers do what they will,
There’s things they cannot do :
They cannot make the Celtic heart
To music beat untrue;
They cannot kill its olden love
For freedom or for rhyme.
The Harp of Tara never dies;
’Tis only mute a time.
I would not have that bardic land
That I may never see
Entirely free from troubles and
Forgot to minstrelsy;
Though quarrels old in coming days
We trust will be forgot.
Still let them sing their Marseillaise,
The stirring “Shan Van Vocht.”
Still let them sing, a joyous band,
With faces to the dawn.
In laughter o’er their verdant land,
“The Little Cruiskeen Lawn” !
Oh. may the Green Isle take in peace
Her future fill of dreams,
While still her bards sweet music trace
Beside the meeting streams!
For, smiling through your ready tears,
O singers of my race,
Ye showed my feet in early years
The path that they must trace,
A path of poor reward that still •
Is silvered with the dew
Of mystic blooms that on the hill
Of old Parnassus grew.
If from my harp a single note,
Authentic, true and clear,
Has ever sprung or yet may float,
Be sure, all ye who hear,
The sounding words that brought delight
Or in your memory rang
Were just an echo in the night
Of songs my mother sang!
Her hair was hlacJe that now, alas!
An honored grey may he;
But that beloved Irish lass,
She made a man of me!
And this my tribute to lier worth
That t 0 her worth belongs,
I owe her not alone my birth,
I owe to her my songs.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


ẅ
the SCENIC
PLAYGROUND
of the PACIFIC
Here—in this fascinating land—lie deep-sea fishing
grounds, lakes and rivers teeming with trout, thermal valleys
with their spouting geysers and boiling pools, Maori pahs,
mountain chateaux, beautiful sounds, fiords, glaciers and
mountain peaks—all within a few days' travel of each other.
Write for complete information, suggested
tours, fares, etc.
LETTER OF CREDIT TOURS.
Genuine tourist visitors can obtain
travel tickets, accommodation, etc., at
will in New Zealand, AND SAVE
EXCHANGE by booking with any N.Z.
Govt Tourist Bureau in Australia.
w
N.Z Government Tourist Bureau,
Box 365 P, Martin Place, Sydney,
and at 59 William Street, Melbourne.
Please send me illustrated leaflets
and full details of a holiday in New
Zealand.
NAME
ADDRESS —-
THE UNION STEAM SHIP CO. ANNOUNCES A
SPECIAL CHRISTMAS CRUISE TO
AUCKLAND (NEW ZEALAND)
BY THE LUXURY LINER
MONOWAI
LEAVING SYDNEY 23rd DECEMBER, RETURNING SYDNEY 2nd JANUARY.
THE TRIP INCLUDES A VISIT TO FAMOUS ROTORUA.
First Class Return (inclusive), £29/157-
Cabin Class Return (inclusive), £24/15/-
No Exchange. Early Reservation Advisable.
UNION S. S. CO., 247 George Street, Sydney. Tel.: B7671.
Who Rilled McClarky?
BY VINCENT WRIGHT.
OLD Mr. Mitford found it, and the
moment he burst into the breakfast-
room we sensed that the unusual had
occurred. You could read it in the man’s
eyes. His gait, too, was unsteady, but that
was not a good sign, as Mr. Mitford’s legs
were always shaky on Sunday mornings.
“It’s McClarky,” he gasped. “He has
been killed....in the sitting-room.”
Now, death is a moving spectacle, and
you must be either an undertaker or a field
marshal to be indifferent to it. To be
candid, the news spoilt my breakfast. Cer-
tainly MoClarky was only a cat, but he
had been at the Laurels so long that we had
begun to regard him as immortal. Enter
the place any time in winter, and you would
see him warming himself near the grate.
In summer he took the sun on the porch;
and if you were looking for the Laurels,
McClarky was the landmark by which you
identified it.
He was a good cat, staid in his habits,
and fond of comfort. If Mrs. Melrose had
thought of selling the Laurels, McClarky, no
doubt, would have been thrown in with the
business. A better mouser I have never
seen. In view of his superior qualities, it
was natural that all should have been
moved when we rose to investigate Mitford’s
report, McClarky’s habits were so well
known that, to say the least, his latest con-
duct savored of the eccentric.
A glance showed that McClarky had not
been consulted about his departure. If the
victim had been two-legged it would have
meant headlines in the evening press. The
cat had been dead some time, because his
body was as cold as the embers of the pre-
vious night’s fire. There were marks on
his head where he had been struck, and, to
complete the poignant tale, a trail of blood
was visible on the carpet. Broken glass,
apparently from a bottle, lay near the fender.
It was a pitiful sight, because a body is
a body regardless of the status of the victim.
It is quite the thing to throw a boot at a
cat, but to kill one is another matter. No
right-thinking Briton would do it.
“Look at the poker,” Mitford cried. The
old fellow’s voice was shaky; only a cynic
would have connected his emotion with the
gin he had had the previous night.
there is blood on it! Besides, it is out of place.”
“Correct, Mitford. Undoubtedly this was
the weapon.” Corkhill took the poker from
him and exhibited it so that all could see.
He alone was calm ; but as he was an ex-
policeman, that was not remarkable. Bent-
ley and I were at a loss for words, while
old Miss Collins was a picture of grief and
fear. Followed by the domestics, Mrs. Mel-
rose trooped in from the kitchen to fall on
her knees beside McClarky.
Laugh if you like, but the scene was
touching. We had all nursed that cat, we
were fond of him, and now he was dead.
“Whoever did it must have struck hard,
because it takes a good blow to kill a cat,”
Corkhill said, swinging the poker reflectively.
His realism was a little trying, and we
were glad when the landlady, dreading fur-
ther loss, asked him to drop the poker.
“Who saw him last?”
“At midnight he was here,” Mrs. Melrose
replied. “When I put out the light he was
by the fire.”
“Then it happened between midnight and
dawn. Probably before three, because rigor
mortis has set in some hours.” Corkhill
prodded McClarky with the toe of his shoe
to give the ladies an idea of what rigor
mortis was.
Though it put the event on a high plane,
Corkhill’s jargon was disturbing. Never had
there been more instant proof of the say-
ing that the occasion brings forth the man.
For years Corkhill had rusted in inactivity.
Transpose a man from the robust life of
the force to a backwater by the sea, and
dejection clouds his spirit at once. I had
noticed his wistful interest in the epidemic
of murders which had recently taken place.
To be an onlooker when you would be in
the thick of it, is hard lines.
“The question is, who did it?” Corkhill
said. We were silent when he went on
accusingly: “Now, Mrs. Melrose, outside of
ourselves, who had access to the house last
night?”
“Every door was locked. I saw to that
myself.”
“Then it amounts to this: one of us—
someone in this room—must have killed Mc-
Clarky.”
I don’t know why every head should have
turned in Bentley’s direction. It was as if
a common instinct told us that he alone was
capable of the crime. And yet we had noth-
ing concrete against the man; nothing, ex-
cept his surly looks and his way of keep-
ing to himself. He was as lean as Gandhi,
and looked as if he needed a course of vita-
mins. Actually, he was a heavy eater. He
did not believe in either Mr. Stevens or
Mr. Lyons, and that was unfortunate, because
we did. To complete his oddity, he went
swimming every morning, winter and sum-
mer. and persisted in talking about it.
McClarky and he, I remembered, had had
nothing in common; in fact, the cat had
kept his distance, as if in fear that Bentley’s
gauntness might be catching.
“Know anything about it, Bentley?” Cork-
hill was not one to stand on ceremony when
he had smelt blood.
“No, I don’t,” Bentley replied, coloring.
“I don’t know why you should think of me.
I would not kill a cat.”
“Be a mean trick, wouldn’t it?”
“Yes. it would.”
“Kicking would be too good for the man
who did it?”
“Of course.”
“Sure, Bentley? You look flustered, you
know. Wouldn’t it be better to make a
clean breast of it?”
Mrs. Melrose intervened in time to pre-
vent a second tragedy. To have lost two
boarders, as well as her best cat, on the
same day, would have been too thick.
“That is enough,” she said firmly. “It is
unfair to blame anyone without proof.”
“True,” Mitford muttered. “Least said
soonest mended.”
Bentley’s exit closed the incident, but stir-
ring events were ahead of us. Anyone who
has broken a mirror or killed a Chinaman
will understand what I moan. You cannot
do these things with impunity, because,
scoffing apart, definite penalties must be
inflicted on innocent and guilty until the
sardonic gods weary of their fun. Nothing
will soften their hearts. Spill salt and >ou
can avoid ruin by throwing salt over youi
shoulder, but in the case of a cat the gods
are indifferent to mundane offerings.
Within 4S hours of McClarky s death the
fun started. There had to be a reckoning,
of course, but I could not see why the
“jinx” should commence with me. With a
shadow over the house I should have known
better than to back a horse, but back it I
did and only a nose was between me and
£5O. That meant rolling my cigarettes for
a month. On top of that, Miss Collins swal-
lowed a fish bone, and had to be taken to
hospital to have it out. The_ cook severed
a finger while dissecting the joint, and the
food went off’ for a few days until Mrs. Mel-
rose got her hand in. A defaulting solicitor
robbed Mrs. Halstead of £3OO ; and young
Mr. Hayes, the bank clerk, heard of the
death of an aunt, but got nothing. Trivial
events, certainly, hut the impress of the
sinister was on them all.
The atmosphere got on our nerves. A
pantrymaid gave notice. The. housemaid de-
cided to postpone her marriage until the
hoodoo should lift, and that, we thought, was
a wise thing to do, because marriage is a
tricky business, even under the best auspices.
We tried to be fair to Bentley, but it
was no use. He was the logical culprit.
Tempting Providence, we thought, he went
into the surf every day. We marvelled at
the man’s audacity, as sharks were about,
but he always returned unharmed, and our
resentment deepened.
At this stage, rightly considering that the
affair had gone too far, Corkhill called Mit-
ford and me into conference. We had to
do something, he said. First, there was a
duty to McClarky; secondly, a duty to our-
selves. He spoke with some bitterness, as
he had learned that day that he had missed
a £l.O prize in the lottery by a whisker.
“Bentley is at the bottom of it,” he said.
“Until we get rid of him! anything might
happen.”
“It is only conjecture on our part, ’ Mit-
ford objected. “What about the rest of the
house? If we went into the matter thor-
oughly we might find something in Bentley’s
favor.”
Corkhill grunted. He believed in first
impressions.
With gentle persistence, Mitford went
through the list of our fellow-boarders, but
Corkhill parried every doubt with expert
thrusts. Apart from Bentley, the _ human
material on which we worked was hopeless.
There wasn’t a pint of blood in the veins
of the lot of them. Not one had the mak-
ings of a “killer” ; in Corkhill’s words, they
were a humdrum lot. Miss Collins believed
in clairvoyants; Hayes played the ukulele;
Mrs. Halstead, a deep old thing, read Omar;
and when she could get away from the
Laurels our landlady gave moral advice to
girls who had gone wrong and finished up
in homes. The interests of the domestic
staff were glory-boxes and film stars.
There remained, of course, the members of
the conference. As the narrator of a story
is above suspicion, I am excluded; and Cork-
hill’s zeal, I thought, was much too earnest
to be insincere. Which brings us to Mit-
ford. Granted that he found the body; but,
then, some one had to find it. Besides, old
Mr. Mitford was one of our favorites, and
killing a cat was about the last thing you
would believe of him. When sober, he was
a venerable figure, with his white hair and
grave carriage, and when he was drunk you
had to give him credit for making a good
job of it. His sense of humor was droll.
In short, he was an all-round man, who
played any role with distinction. The
drunkard, I must admit, was the part he
played most frequently. Although, Mrs. Mel-
rose confiscated every bottle she put her
hands, on, Mitford, on the whole, baffled her.
He seemed to regard her veto against liquor
being in his room as a personal challenge,
and hid his bottles with great art. You
were likely to find them anywhere: in a
vase; in your bed; even inside the fireplace.
Separate the man from his gin, and you took
away all his comforts. A course of temper-
ance would have hastened his end.
It was like Mitford, too, to plead toler-
ance where Bentley was concerned. It
showed an open mind. Corkhill, on the other
hand, was prone to quick judgments and re-
sented opposition. “Argument is useless,”
he said curtly. “Bentley is the man, and I
am going to prove it within 24 hours.”
He gave us a conspiratorial leer, and, in
a lowered voice, outlined his scheme. To
say that the plan was gruesome is to put
it mildly. It took me back to Edgar Allan
Poe and the Inquisition. There was a
macabre genius in the idea; only Corkhill
could have conceived it. Briefly, it involved
sneaking into Bentley’s room when lights
were out, and placing in the sheets beside
him the dead body of a black cat.
“Subtle, eh?” Corkhill chuckled. “If that
doesn’t break him down, nothing will.”
I had to admit tliat even an elephant
could not stand up against that sort of
test. But Mitford dampened us a bit by
saying that the plan was “a bit hot.”
“You are too squeamish, Mitford,” Cork-
hill said brusquely. “Weaklings like you
make me sick. If you lack the stomach for
men’s Avork, say the word and go back to
your gin.”
“If there is anything in reincarnation,”
Mitford came back, “you must have been a
body-snatcher in your last life.”
“Yes,” Corkhill snapped. “And you were
a mouse.”
Some tactful words of mine saved a row,
but we had to wait until Mitford retired to
complete our plans. Corkhill, it appeared,
had the cat in a sugar-bag in his room. At
midnight we would meet in the passage, and,
while I kept watch, Corkhill was to slip into
Bentley’s room to carry out his part of
the work.
As the enterprise required nerve, I retired
to my room at ten to prepare for it with
whisky.
Old Mitford, in his overcoat, saluted me
in the passage. There was a malicious
twinkle in his eye, and his carriage was un-
certain. Unusual for him to be going out
■at that hour, I thought. There could be
only one explanation: he had run out of
gin and was on his way to get more.
* * * *
That night our slumbers were shattered
by howls of terror, and two demented men
clashed with berserk fury outside our bed-
rooms.
It wasn’t that our plans had failed; in
fact, fortune seemed to be with us, because
Corkhill had planted the eat in Bentley’s
bed before 12.15 a.m. and we were back in
our rooms a few minutes later. The arrange-
ment was, that when an hour had elapsed
I was to attract Bentley’s attention by rap-
ping on the wall. Bentley’s bedmate and
his conscience, we reckoned, would do the
rest. The geography of the Laurels was in
our favor, as my room was between Cork-
hill’s and Bentley’s.
Another whisky made me drowsy. It is
poor sport lying awake in the dark with an
hour to fill in before the fun starts. Even
Corkhill, the man of action, succumbed
because I heard him turn in his bed and
then he snored.
A piercing cry awakened me ; it startled
everyone in the house. With a shock, I
realised that the sound came from Corkhill’s
room, instead of Bentley’s. Corkhill was
screaming like a lunatic, and the noise he
made was swelled by the sound of scurrying
feet and breaking glass. Over went a chair
and down came a picture.
Then Bentley screamed, and I heard him
tumble out of bed. In racing for the switch
he must have stumbled over something,
because I heard him swear, and that, in
fact, was the only normal note in the whole
proceedings.
Again there w T as bedlam in Corkhill’s
room. My flesh tingled when the howls of
what seemed to be a multitude of cats
mingled with Corkhill’s cries. Oats are on
my brain, I thought, as I rose to investigate
the mystery.
The passage was filled with the flutter of
nightgowns and pyjamas. There was an
air of expectancy. Bentley’s door was the
first to open. Out he came, his face like
a fiend’s, swinging the stiff corpse of a cat
by the tail.
Corkhill was next to appear. His pyjama
coat was flying open, and he ran as if devils
were chasing him. The devils resolved them-
selves into the forms of cats as frightened
as himself, which followed on his heels in
a grey and black flood.
Gone were the detachment and nerve of
the leader of men. To be just to Corkhill,
we had to admit later that it is trying
when half a dozen cats are released in your
bedroom, and the carcase of a fish is planted
under your pillow.
They would have met in head-on collision
if Bentley had not stood off, and, swinging
the cat, flattened Corkhill with a blow in
the face. The cats poured over his body
in their frantic haste to be gone. Women
screamed and doors slammed.
Standing over Corkhill, and swinging his
grisly weapon, Bentley struck him again and
again in the face.
* * * *
It takes time to resolve order out of
chaos. First we had to get the ambulance
for Corkhill, and then we had to disarm
Bentley. It took three of us to do that, as
Bentley, with his back to the wall, swung
the cat with unerring aim. The vengeful
spirit of McClarky was in every blow, and
our faces were marked with fur and blood
before we prevailed.
Then we looked for Mitford. Some in-
stinct told me that the old gentleman could
throw light on the events which had taken
place. This impression was strengthened by
the report that he had been seen entering the
Laurels shortly before midnight, carrying a
sugar-bag that bulged.
During the m§lee he had not been sighted.
We opened his door, but he was not there.
The wardrobe was empty, and there was no
sign of a “port.” Only for a row of
empty bottles on the tables, we might have
been pardoned for thinking that we had
come to the wrong room.
Having kept the Laurels for 20 years,
Mrs. Melrose was hardened to the turpitude
of mankind, but even her philosophy deserted
her on this occasion. I heard her mutter-
ing something about “ingrates,” and £lO 3s.
9d., and then she bounced out of the room
as if she could not answer for her conduct
if she stayed there any longer.
Hayes found it: just a few lines scribbled
on a pad on the table. They read:
“To save further trouble, 1 wish to state
that I killed McClarky. I did so because he
upset the vase in which I had hidden a
bottle of gin from Mrs. Melrose. Men have
been murdered for less. Cheerio, Mitford.”
And this ends the story of the murder
of McClarky. We haven’t told Corkhill yet.
He is an excitable man and the shack, it
is feared, might be the end of him.


\
111
w
u
.
m
a
m
m
•MS
3f
a--.,,.:.*'
||v //W'? > T ‘
■
a
aummmmvrr
P^fMMMi
.•*'•*.*?'(*££'aV. '.a.-aja.-w ■’
we
«f r '*‘ 53 I fj Ijjl "*.*"». *
- •v~~~ r-r*|papS
III
. ■
V: ■>?>.
•->• -
n ?■
■va
1
■
■ :■■
'll
a
aa:
mm.
-a
HHI
: i :;’ : : a'‘ : : >.'
HERE
ARE THE
FACTS!
CAR—ESSEX SEDAN
OWNER—MR. F. YOTT, MELBOURNE
PURCHASED NEW—3lst AUGUST, 1928
PHOTOGRAPHED—3Ist AUGUST, 1932
TOTAE MIEEAjGE—IOO,OOO MIEES
EXPOSURE—CAB EXPOSED WEATHER AVERAGE 12 HOURS DAILY FOR 4 YEARS
PRESENT CONDITION OF DUCO—AS NEW DUE TO SIMONIZING. See Essex Agent’s Letter Belov,
*
NOTE.—BLOCK
OF CAR m'a D E
FROM UNRETOUCHED
PHOTO. BY DARGE,
MELB. NO ARTIST’S
TOUCHING UP ON BODY-
WORK. EXCEPT SPEED LINES ON
WHEELS! AND THE CAR REALLY
LOOK'S MORE BEAUTIFUL THAN THE
lOTO.
ORIGINAL DUCO PROTECTED BY SIMONIZING
NOW INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM NEW!
WHAT ME. lOTT HAS ACCOMPLISHED YOU ALSO CAN DO. Just think of it—loo,ooo miles, equal to 1.0 years’ exposure under
ordinary driving conditions and the paint work unmarked and in the same showroom condition as when delivered new.
ESSEX AGENTS ENDORSE EXTRAORDINARY BEAUTY MILEAGE
Mr. H. J. Lane, Director of Neals Motors, Victorian Hudson-Essex Agents, writes as follows: “Essex Sedan, Reg. No. 93071,
teas delivered new, August 31, 1928 and after inspection to day we were surprised to find the original , duco in extra-
ordinarily goad condition, equal to new. To our knowledge this car has travelled over 100,000 miles, including lO^rip?
&oth Canberra and Adelaide and back, and has j ai> iU t u tests and 2-'i-hours'
trials as official car. to maintain the, duco fipish in such condition was periodical Simonizing.
DO NOT DESPAIR IF YOUR CAR IS DULL AND FADED.
Buy a can of Simoniz Kleener (green tin) and Simoniz (yellow tin) and restore it to new beauty yourself. Kleener
applied with a soft cloth removes all dullness and restores the original color. Then simpniz imparts a lustrous protective
film, which keeps the finish beautiful for thousands of miles impiurje to dust, dirt, mud and weather conditions.
Simoniz and Kleener are sold by good motor stores at 5/- pair small, 10/- pair large ; single tins, small, 2/9, large, 5/<?
w
Ai!
ftfflNlSH
awei-
CHATCHBN#!
Sa?"*
1
51M0N12
ISP
VARNISH
nUCO
qUEBS
yin
FO
OUCG
paint
N»ives BITAUTYAND pro,
. TO ACL FINISHES
fjsrscno
*a-£Ue»~
mc'°
rNA
tFtS
DUCO
free:
SAMPLES
FOR TRIAL ON YOUR CAR.
SIMIONIZ
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS:
PERTH.
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd.
HOBART.
C C. Boag Pty.,
Ltd.
ADELAIDE.
Cornell, Ltd.
IJarris, Scarfe, Ltd.
J. N. Taylor, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Motor Accessory
Houses.
NEW ZEALAND.
H. O. Wiles, Ltd., Auckland.
SYDNEY.
Bennett & Wood,
Bennett & Barkell
Hislop Lloyd, I
Westcott Hazell,
BRISBANE,
Butler Bros, Ltd.
E.S.C.A., Ltd.
Martin Wilson, Ltd.
ẁ
Thousands Subscribe to Australia's Great Weekly Newspaper
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which I enclose £. * • •
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
&
O'
m
w
0?
<\o e , v
f*l'«K**
0^
‘‘^j
55’ &T* e '
rf**


V "
(?Q~
a :
C'v;, C.Cr
Vo® '® P= ~^
.. nM ~^-l'
"J
n /fck >f^£*
,-VN. i)YW^ti
(£=
I
95
U
STT>
k
u
\
■ 5 ~;
. i.; ~
/V
<..
tflil
gs
S«M
X.
. ,«. .-
’■''■tv,-
MM
V -■ -"V
'•',£'
,
. ;■ ,i
J
■
nil
W #■' ■
g I
.
■BSv
l / J
[•> • '■•'
fl /.. 1
L
BUILT with
k
’
COBD
ipertwist is exclusive to
jodyear Tyres and as-
ires a carcass of superior
itality and extra-long
sar
~ >l3 ■■ \
dfesl
r V
I
▲
‘ * I '
*
* .
5 -13-3 a
BUILT with
CORD
Supertwist is exclusive to
Goodyear Tyres and as-
sures a carcass of superior
vitality and extra-long
wear.
you start
on any trip
...flit Qcmtfi/ecvis
kit tvcvuf’fl tee.
tifXe Ae/wice
RE you ready for the fun this Summer? it is your
motor car that links you with all the joys of
Summer outdoor life! Is your car ready? It will
go only so far as tyres will take it,
If there is even one worn tyre get rid of it Why risk
pounds in repairs and ruined clothes—why risk break-
downs, delays and the inconvenience of roadside
repairs ... to save a few pence? It doesn’t pay
to drive old, worn tyres this summer .. . when
V new Goodyears can he purchased at today’s
|k low prices.
And, remember, when you buy Goodyear
Tyres today you get better tyres,
greater values than ever before. You
get 10% extra thickness in the famous
All-Weather Tread . , . extra wear ,
extra safety, extra puncture
protection . You get the superior
vitality of Supertwist Cord in the
carcass . . . testing up to 61% greater
than ordinary cord. You get mile-
age averaging 30% greater . . . the
most for the money ever built
into tyres.
Help yourself to pleasant care-free
motoring . . . replace every worn
tyre with a new, tough, long-wearing
Goodyear.
made in austral I a
