

L. T. FIVEIR’S
FACE POWDERS
and CREAMS
(MADE IN FRANCE)
PQUDIRE
POMPEIA
jITPIVEP PA»t% g
pOUDRG
RIZ
De
JjelfeFLe iDcarofc
//
c DE
(PfiFRfINOR
LTPiveR
P A RI§
AZURE A
LT.Pive#
PARIS
{ Creme
RsRAnyE
LT.Piver
*P»iu>
cqp
The NAME is the guarantee of quality.
ĥ
Wi
eRe/vvß
FTIAKOh
LTPsvcrW*
PCRI
; >:!!!
K*jJjrPouQtu Ot Rji
MTSRAim
LT. PIVER -
p.Sii
POUDRE DC RIZ
AZUREA
L.T. PIVGR
PAR I S
m
e
SOLD EVERYWHERE
CIAL SAMPLE OFFER:
SEND 6d. IN STAMPS
OF FACE POWDER, SMALL TUBE OF FACE CREAM AND SACHET.
(Mention this Paper.)
The Bulletin
lAfesj CL P 8
Vol. 53. —No. 2713.
Wednesday, February 10, 1932*
Price 6d.
JRegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


-• ■ : , - - ■ . I : ■■■'.* ■<".
QUR Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
with full terms and particulars post
free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON .
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name ....
Vy Address
S.B. 232
lYsaght
m
O
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Verdict of Millions
Throughout the World
Used in homes in every coun-
try in the world for more
than half a century, Cuticura
Preparations are unsur-
passed for daily care of the
skin. Begin using them today
as a protection against skin
troubles.
Soap Is. ointmentls.and2s. Talcumls.3d.
Sample each free. Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
"THE AGE”
■ Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
Tile actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,' 5
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 117,000 daily Sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Special Announcement
to National Advertisers
Che mercury
Tasmania’s National Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by thosef interested, at the offices of
the Secretary . of the Australian
Association of National
1 9 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—•
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MEItCURY,”' Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgai
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building.
Elizabeth Street.
THE PATRIOT
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men l
Greater Brisbane Contains
One third of Queensland's
Entire Population,
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
(Che Brisbane (Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 8 <fo
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary,
* ¥ *
Fou can get more of these interest -
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from:
®he Brisbane (Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 850Q7.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F39OG.
London Agent= - H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
Cbe Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and “up-to-the-minute”
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the "N.Z. Referee”
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 135241.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,’’ 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
41,4-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
VY.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
mett their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian. Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collin’s Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE - - - - - 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
The Red Page
Four Poets
Twenty-six, by J. A. R. McKellar (Frank
Johnson, Sydney; 5s.), is the first of the
Jaearanda-tree Books of Australian Verse.
There are 26 poem?, and they were pro-
duced befoTe the author was 26, which ex-
plains the title L Mr. McKellar writes with
feeling and craftsmanship, and he has
thought harder about life than most local
verse-writers. His trouble is that he doesn’t
sing his age or country. Mythical Greece
is his spiritual home. Departing Diggers
only serve to remind him of Argi.
THESE EXPEDITIONS.
Ten years ago I climbed a hill,
And there 1 climbed a tree,
So through the mist and raining, watched
The troopships go to sea.
A2 —A6 —the numbered list
Steamed out in plunging chain,
Till, hull down in the, closing mist,
I lost them in the rain,
So now and then I wonder
If any Grecian boy
Climbed to the highest hill to watch
The ships put out for Troy;
And on his thumb-nail biting,
W’hile they went out to war,
Fain would have gone a-fighting
With Helen for a star.
“Summer Sunday” begins as a charming
memory-picture of a Sydney boy swing-
ing “down and under the crest of Randwick
Hill,” and ends disconcertingly:—
I’ll stop and watch and wonder
If Time is standing still,
And, since my thought takes ‘ measure
From that first tale of Troy,
The way lads took their pleasure
When Hector was a boy.
And wish blind Homer told us,
Instead of naming fleets,
How many boys lugged puppies,
Protesting, through the streets.
It is all the more annoying since he is at
his lyrical best when he records what he
has observed intensively, as in “Moonshine.”
Still, Twenty-six . contains some notable
work, and deserves a place among the books
of all who are interested in what our
younger writers are doing.
W. C. Thomas, author and publisher of
Dancing Leaves, is a Westralian nature
poet of a minor order. Simplicity and a
gift for graceful expression are his strong
suits. He delights in flowers, birds, trees
and the phenomena of the recurring seasons.
He is capable of Wordsworthian bathos:—
’Come walk with me the soft-green banks
That girt the lovely Swan,
And I shall surely earn your thanks
For what you gaze upon.
But, as a rule, he has a thought to express
—nothing very profound but still a thought
—and he does it felicitously:
RECOLLECTION'.
I heard a lark by Melbourne town
And all the years came tumbling down;
I was again a little boy
Roaming With eyes that sang with joy
In English meadows all aglow
With cowslip gold and daisy snow.
And hard by Melbourne town I heard
The trill and rapture of a bird—
• Amid the clang of tram and train,
And the soft fall of winter rain;
Oh, it was good to find the key
Of all the years come hack to me.
The Poetry oj Neil Munro (Blackwood;
5s.) has been edited by John Buchan. Aus-
tralians know Munro best as a writer of pic-
turesque prose who interspersed his fine
yarns about Scotland with an occasional
rollicking ballad. It appears from the
editor’s preface that he contributed verse
profusely to newspapers and magazines, and
presumably the cream,of it has been gath-
ered together here. Stevenson’s influence
is evident—many of the stanzas have his
whimsicality, and the lilt of his gay vet,
tired voice—and so is the influence of
Burns, who still speaks through every true
Scot. It is when Munro writes about war,
which was never brought very close to his
masters, that he is most himself. From his
Lament for a Macleod of Skye who fell at
Loos, fighting in an English regiment:—
Beside him, when he fell there in his beauty,
Macleods of all the islands should have died;
Brave hearts his English ! —but they could not fathom
To what old deeps the voice of Allan cried ;
When in that strange French countryside war-
battered,
Far from , the creeks of home arid hills of heath,
A boy, he kept' the old tryst of his - people
With the dark girl Death.
Oh Allan Ian Og! Oh Allan aluinn!
Sore is my heart remembering the past,
And you of Raasay’s ancient gentle children
The farthest-wandered kindliest and last!
It should have been the brave dead of the islands
That heard ring o’er their tombs your battle cry,
To shake them from their sleep again and quicken
Peaks of Torridon and Skye.
Poignant stuff, and as emotionally stimulat-
ing to anyone born north of the Tweed as
the skirl ’of the bagpipes at the head of a
marching regiment.
The last of the
present batch is
H.D.’s Red Roses
jor Bronze (Chatto
and Windus; 65.).
H.D. has been a
shining light among
the Imagists for many a year, and with-
out question he is an authentic poet. There
are passages of rare loveliness in this book
—gleaming little landscapes, ingenious and
beautiful phrases—but the best of his
efforts, such as the one that, gives the
volume its name, are merely purple patches
of prose twisted to look like verse. At
other times his affectations are infuriating:
CHANCE.
Chance says
come here,
chance says
can you bear
to part ?
chance says
sweetheart,
we haven’t loved
for almost a year,
can you bear
this loneliness ?
I can’t;
apart from you,
I fear
wind,
bird,
sea,
wave,
low places
and the high air.
I hear
dire threat
everywhere;
And so on. There is no reason in art or
sense why Chance’s message to the beloved
shouldn’t have been delivered in a dozen
lines or less, with an occasional full stop;
and the other poems are disfigured by pre-
ciosity of the same kind.
RED PAGE.
Befuddled Education
“S.N.R.” is wrong in stating that I “would
have our educational system made more
utilitarian by substituting Asiatic languages
for Latin, French and higher mathematics.”
Red Page space is too precious to waste in
reiterating, so perhaps my correspondent
would honor me by reading “Fuddling Edu-
again. He also omits to answer in
the slightest degree my contention that
physiology should be a sine qua non of
modern education. He can offer no reason
why French is taught in preference to other
tongues, and is dumb about the disadvan-
tages of every high-school child being forced
to learn certain subjects in which there is
little interest and less use.
What are the proper objectives of a uni-
versity? And how do they differ from those
of a high school and a business college?
English universities, besides turning out
certificated professional men, cater for the
“sons of the idle rich,” who in the end do
or do not acquire the pleasurable and
easily-attained degree of Bachelor of Arts.
Their social obligations in “keeping dinners”
and other traditional aids to gentility count
in their ultimate acquiring of knowledge
sufficient to favorably impress an examiner.
That is all very well in England, but in
Australia, as in America, there is no such
class, and our universities necessarily be-
come a mixture of high school and business
college as Well as mildly cultural centres.
We indulge in “degrees” in Agriculture,
Architecture and Veterinary Science. And
it has yet to be proven that the products
ol Australian universities are inferior in
either quality or national importance to
those of other countries.
“S.N.R.” quotes man)' examples to justify
his contention that English boys learn French
for some unnamed reason rather than be-
cause France is England’s nearest neighbor.
If “S.N.R.” is right, the coincidence is extra-
ordinary. If the English had any special
leaning towards a European language it
should surely be towards that of their
cousins the Germans, who, in any case, have
a wealth and depth of literature and art
superior to the French.
I have paid a couple of trips to Java,
and have many a time sat and watched
American foodstuffs and merchandise being
unloaded from ships at anchor in the docks
at Surabaya or Batavia. They bring the
goods a journey of two or three weeks when
we could move them there in three days.
I asked a man with big. business interests
there why Australian produce was so seldom
seen. He mentioned the language difficulty
first, said that Americans and other trading
nations had representatives who could come
along and talk business easily and put their
claims lucidly and briefly. In spite of
‘S.N.R.’s” sneers regarding the rise;of Eng-
land’s trade without accessory linguistical
accomplishment, modern commerce demands
that when a man has something to sell he
must be able to talk about it and convince
his potential customer that it is something
worth buying. Education to-day must be
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING."—The Conscience of Business. “THE SENIOR STORE”
Anthony Horderns'
Genuine SALE
Buy GUNS now for the
Coming Shooting Season
Anthony Horderns’ are making a special offer of High-grade Guns. The
ordinary price of these guns is pounds below replacement value, and as
these guns are being said at sale prices, look what you save. Now is the
time to buy while these prices last. These guns are limited in quantity,
and cannot be replaced at these prices.
£9/15/- Bayard Guns, now
£7
12G. Bayard, Black steel barrels, with Pieper patent solid breech, left
choke, drop-forged action, top lever system, with treble grip top bolt,
improved rebounding double spring locks, Deeley and Edge fore-end, case-
hardened and blued mountings, horn heelplate, engine-turned rib, “genuine
Pieper breech, warranted’f engraved on the breech, with scroll and game
engraving. Chambered for 2fin. cartridges. Price £9/15/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £7
£2O Webley-Scott’s Hammerless Gun
h
£l5
WEBLEY-SCOTT’S D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun. 30in. special steel barrels,
chambered 2fin.; flat engine, turned raised rib, box lock action, top lever,
treble bite, crossbolt, selected walnut half-pistol handstock, neat scroll
and border, engraving, nitro proved; made expressly to suit Australia and
New Zealand. Weight 7-|lb. 1 2G. Price r £2O
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £l5
£24/10/- Hammerless Pigeon Guns
VESE
£l9/io/
W. CASHMORE’S 12G. D.8.8.L. Hammerless Pigeon Gun. Crossbolt
action, side clips, automatic safety bolt, English fine-steel barrels, choke
bored, flat file-cut rib, figured walnut stock, pistol grip, chambered for
2|in. cartridges, good finish; neatly engraved; specially proved for nitro
powders. Weight about 7lb. A Price £24/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price ...... , . . . £l9/10/-
GUN CARTRIDGES at Current Prices
Eley’s Universal Black Powder
Nobel’s Ballistite Powder . . . .
Nobel’s “Nile” Ballistite
Eley’s Grand Prix, Diamond, smokeless , .
Eley’s Diamond, smokeless
Eley’s Furlong, smokeless
Eley’s Fourten, smokeless
Rifle Cartridges at Current Prices
Rifle Cartridges
ĥ
1000
75/-
75/-
75/-
1000
22/6
28/6
33/6
(Dept Ground Floor, George Street. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
Specially Priced Lines for the
MAN ON THE LAND
£lO/10/- Single-furrow Ploughs at £9/10/-
mm
m
“Wiard” Single-furrow All-steel Contractors’ Ploughs. Weight 1601 b.
Price - £lO/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £9/10/-
£l6/10/- Single-furrow Ploughs £l2
Ransomes’ Single-furrow Mouldboard Plough, R.N.D. Weight 1601 b.
Price £l6/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £l2
£l6 Road or Contractor Ploughs £l2
Syracuse, No. 99, Road or Contractor’s Plough. Weight 2501 b. Price, £l6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £l2
£B/5/- Lift and Force Pump £6/5/-
Douglas Lift and Force Pumps, No. 6. On board takes 2in. pipe.
Price i £B/5/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £6/5/-
£l4/10/- Blacksmiths’ Forges £l2/15/-
Buffalo Blacksmiths’ Forges, No. 231. Size of pan, 30in. x 30in.
Fitted with Buffalo No. 200 Blower. Price £l4/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price . £l2/15/-
£7/2/6 Barrel Spray Pump only £6
Century Barrel Spray Pump, complete with 20ft. hose and nozzle.
Price £7/2/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £6
£23 Tyre Bender at only £l5
Buffalo Tyre Bender, No. 6. Will bend tyres up to 4in. x lin. diameter
of wheel. 20in. up. Price £23
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £l5
Cask extra.
£B/5/- Buffalo Power Blower £5
Buffalo, No. Power Blower. Diameter of outlet 4Ain. Height 20in.
Size of pulley 1 by 2in. Will suit two or three fires. Price . . £B/5/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £5
£lO/10/- Standard Lever Forge £B/15/-
Buffalo No. 3, Standard Lever Forge. Size of hearth 21 in. by 27in.
Diameter of fan 1 Oin. Price £lO/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £B/15/-
( Department, Fourth Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
ħ
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
BKBOnaMBBiuHHnHHniHB
Postal Address:
Box 2712 c, GJP.OJ


Duro Tyres.
PRICES REDUCED
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT
Barnet Glass
Barnet Glass introduced their new Duro Tyre to
enable motorists to effect substantial economies
on their motoring expenditure. Widespread approval
of the "Duro,” reflected in rapid and increasing sales,
afforded striking proof that a definite need existed for
such a low priced tyre. Now, with its quality and
dependability unchanged, the prices of "Duro” have
been substantially reduced . . . More so than ever
before is "Duro” the Economy Tyre.
is*..
&
v\
i
m
m
m
M
ma
NEW PRICE LIST
DURO
TYRES
Effective Feb . 5, 1932
DURO TRUCK TYRES
30x5 Heavy Duty 20 ♦ » 5 2 3
32x6 Heavy Duty 20 ♦ ♦ 815 0
Obtainable at all Leading Qarages and
Tyre Dealers throughout Australia.
/
ftR NET
ri'A'c/c
WARRANTY:—
Same as on Barnet Glass Standard High-Grade Tyres.
BARNET GLASS RUBBER COMPANY LIMITED
X3»48.32


mm
rF7
H
r
r
4
u/
<3<S>KlCBliiCa O o<s)S£»Q
What W. E. Fitz Henry
says about
Drawing as a Profession
“The office of the newspaper with
which I am associated (The Bulle-
tin) is liter ally bombarded each week
with drawings by persons who do not
know the first principles of Art. To
each of these we say (in effect)—The
first essential is to learn to draw well• "
“It has been my pleasure to note the
progress of those who have heeded our
advice and. of course, profited thereby
to such an extent that they now have
a vast market for their work.
“Almost a hundred editors in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand confessed to
me that they were prepared to buy
drawings from properly trained artists.
In addition a big percentage employ
staff artists at good salaries.”
So don't adopt the fatuous expecta-
tion of the Hero on the left of the pic-
ture, or the “Kaiser Bill-Charlie
Chap.” attitude of the comedian on the
right, but commence right now to
SKETCH YOUR CAREER.
*The Art TRAINING INSTI-
TUTE can be trusted to bring out
any talent which is in you and
develop it to the full.
The section of the Course dealing
with Newspaper Illustrating is written
by Ted Scorfield, L. F. Reynolds, John
Sampson, and W. E. Fitz ITenry.
Those parts dealing with Posters, News
Ads., Fashions, etc., are written by equally
eminent men in their respective branches.
Mr. Tom Alban, who supervises the studies,
is a good all-round man, but is a particu-
larly fine figure draughtsman, having won
numerous medals in International Competi-
tions.
Those who are genuinely interested in any
branch of Art should promptly write for the
Free Book, “The New Era of Commercial
Art,” which contains 80 pages profusely
illustrated. Send Sd. in stamps for regis-
tered postage to the
T
Mia
Mi
80 SWANSTON STREET,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
practical as well as cultural, and there is
not the slightest reason in the world why
it shouldn’t be so. Is algebra more cul-
tural” than physiology? Is Irench more
cultural than Spanish or Dutch or German.
DOUBLE GRADUATE.
The Truth About White Slavery
In correcting “Pawang” (B. 11/11/’3D
Hilary Lofting pleads that the White Slave
traffic is not as bad as it is painted in
Londres’s book. Londres has certainly piled
on the agony. The truth, as usual, lies
somewhere in between. The procurer visits
Antwerp, Brussels, Marseilles, Liverpool,
Brighton and other cities, looks girls over
with the eye of a buyer of livestock, and to
those who seem suitable proposes emigration
to South America. The girls who choose
to go have their passages paid, and are
under a contract to serve for a stated time,
after which they are free. There is very
little of the “clearing oyt to get married”
which Hilary Lofting mentions, but quite a
lot of leaving to become the mistress of
some wealthy Brazilian or Argentinan.
Others save money and return to their
native land to marry. A number of young
French or Belgian women become prosti-
tutes solely to earn sufficient money for
their wedding dowry. But these women,
it must be born in mind, were prostitutes
before they ever saw South America.
There is another aspect of this business.
A type of agent specialises in seducing un-
sophisticated country girls, after which they
are packed off to Buenos Ayres or Rio, not
to enter houses of ill-fame, but to fill orders
from clients desirous of women who have
not bestowed their favours upon numerous
others. This variety of white slave fills
the twin role of housekeeper and mistress.
Another type of girl, who goes out under
an erroneous idea of what her duties are
to be, is the third-rate music-hall artist.
She is in demand among proprietors of
cafes or hotels who like to have ladies of
their own on the premises, since if they
haven’t their places are used only for
making assignations, and they lose the
profit on the drinks consumed and their
percentage of Flossie’s fee.
And that is the sum total of the whole
business about which so many well-meaning
Britons are concerned. They subscribe
money, and send agents to “save” these
girls and repatriate them; - but the ladies
usually give a scornful laugh and sarcasti-
cally inquire what sort of work will be
found for them at home if they do go back.
Domestic service? At the beck and call of
another woman for long hours for a few
miserable francs a week? Nine or ten hours’
slavery a day in laundry or clothing fac-
tory? La-la, my droll one, you must
offer me more than that before I leave this
life, with' its ease, good food, pretty clothes
and laughter! Time enough to think of
work when my pretty face fades, my figure
sags, and I am not wanted any longer by
Madame or her clients. And now, preacher,
I will leave you, for here comes that
wealthy young Senor Gringo di Murta, who
always pays double and buys champagne.
There you have it from a sailor who has
talked to many of these slaves, who live in
gilded prisons, with the doors always open,
and who most decidedly do not want to
“escape” back to the real slavery of factory,
cafe or kitchen until their assets, youth
and beauty, have gone for ever.
If those concerned with the attempts to
stop this trade really want to put an end
to it, they must find for pretty girls an
alternative way of earning a living without
working, with good food and beautiful
clothes provided. They must also find out
why so many girls are born prostitutes. A
certain type takes to the life as a duck
does to water. They did so from the dawn
of history, they will do so until its end.
South America is only in the limelight be-
cause there the authorities recognise that
in every community women are always
ready and willing to sell themselves. The
English-speaking races simply refuse to look
this plain fact in the face.
CARRICK. A.B.
Follow My Leader
Broome Stages (Dymock’s), Clemence
Dane’s heroic story of seven generations of
a family of actors, is magnificent. Every
detail of the 350,000-word work falls blandly
into place as the stuff of life in the manner
of all major art. So irresistible is it that
opinion is cancelled; at the end of the
second and third reading only gratitude is
left.
Yet the London critics—or a group of
them—didn’t like it. The “Times Literary
Supplement” asked: —
Is not the very vividness of the impression created
due to the fact that the characters of Broome Stages
are not quite true to the psychology of common
humanity? Are they not all recognisably somewhat
too romantic, drawn something larger than life-
size ?
Passing without comment London’s critical
authority in the act of deprecating A, the
source of the very vividness of the work
under review, and B, the fact that a story
about actors makes their personalities stage-
size, I follow chronologically a series of
euriously-alike judgments.
L. P. Hartley, in the “Week-End
Review,” had other words for the same idea,
though naturally the good journalist’s words
do not quite look like it:—
The Broomesi were, on the whole, too self-willed
and purposeful to be charming. The quality they
shared was vitality; the vitality differentiates one
person from another (fundamentally) no more than
excess or deficiency of electric current differentiates
one telephone wire from the next.... vivid enough
in the section, but less significant as a completed
wh01e....
is part of much in a similar strain.
Rebecca West, who usually speaks her
own valuable and sensitive mind, laid it
down in the “Daily Telegraph”:—
But at the same time, surely she writes books
that are less like life in texture and design than
any other living writer of her technical ability ?
And so on again,. elaborating the “Times
Literary Supplement” idea and fiddling
with this totally imaginary fault in a work
of art.
In “Britannia and Eve,” Arnold Palmer
said:—
Such radiance has its place, after dinner and
across the footlights. But in an historico-psycho-
logical novel of 700 pages it is, I think, not in
place. Prolonged breathing of Wardour-street atmo-
sphere fatigues me, and I desire no satisfaction
from the company of ghosts.
This little game of Follow My Leader
makes no odds, of course. Broome Stages
was reprinted thrice in the month of its
publication, and will endure and take its
place with “Tono-Bungay” and “The For-
syte Saga.” The “Australian Woman’s
Mirror” supplied one of the best opinions
the writer has seen :
At its best it is superb—in character-drawing, in
humor, in dialogue, and the whole business of ex-
pression. It may have a history ahead of it longer
than that of its Broomes.
HILARY LOFTING.
A Satchel of Books
Physics: Fundamental Laws and Principles,
by Edgar Booth and I’hyllis M. Nicol (Aus-
tralasian Medical Publishing Co., 18s. 6d.).
This work, by the lecturer and the demon-
strator in physics at Sydney Uni., is mainly
a compendium of the mathematics of pure
and applied physics. Practical applications
of such new sciences as radio-activity and
the theory of electrical waves have brought
into being a host of new equations, and
developments in the older sciences have also
created the need for new expressions which
cannot be found in standard textbooks. The
authors have covered the mathematical
ground from Newton and Joule onwards.
Fundamental laws are stated with commend-
able brevity and clarity, and every section
has appended to it a well-varied group of
practical problems for which solutions are
given, and a further group which the student
must solve for himself. For the purposes of
the Uni. student the work is ideal, and be-
cause of its convenience and modernity it
deserves a place in every technical library.
The Human Side of Insurance, by F. J.
Maclean (Sampson Low: Bobertson and
Mullens ; 10s. Od. net.). This fascinating
book traces insurance from its beginnings in
the Aryan tribes of India 8000 years ago up
to its latest development, “The British Avi-
ation Insurance Company,” which covers
every kind of risk to which a flying machine
and its freight are exposed. In between is
packed a mass of interesting history. A good
deal of insurance has been indistinguishable
from betting, and this example mei’its an even
less reputable comparison. In 1705 800
German immigrants, brought to London from
the Palatinate by a speculator for some
obscure commercial reason, were abandoned
by him and left lying in Goodman’s Fields,
London, without food or .shelter. “On the
third day of sojourn, when several had died
from exposure or hunger, wagers were made
by members of Change Alley and Lloyd’s
Coffee House as to the number w*ho would
die within the week.” There are some
handsome illustrations.
The Papyrus Ebers, by Cyril P. Bryan
(Geoffrey Bles; 10s. 6d. net). The Ebers
papyrus is the earliest medical treatise in
existence. It was accidentally discovered in
Egypt by a German scientist, and the sub-
sequent translation was challenged by Egypt-
ologists. Mr. Bryan, who is demonstrator
in anatomy at London University, and is
Melbourne-born, translated the German text
into English, as he considered that, inad-
equate as it was, it was still of sufficient
value. Another Australian, Prof. Elliot
Smith, contributes a brilliant preface, the
thesis of which is that the hitherto accepted
notion that primitive medicine was magic is
wrong, and that the healers of antiquity
produced their quaint remedies precisely as
the scientific investigator of to-day does—
by rationalising from observation. Mice are
an ingredient of many of the potions the
Egyptian swallowed for all sorts of diseases.
The Egyptian physician had observed that
when the Nile rose mice crept out of the
cracks in the mud. He argued that as the
mice were bred by the river, and the river
was the great lifegiver, they would provide
an antidote for failing vitality. The papy-
rus reveals that the ancient Egyptian was
threatened from his cradle to his grave with
almost every disease that threatens the
modern Australian, except syphilis. Nerves
are not a recent affliction. The Egyptian
suffered, from them and took a nostrum con-
taining 36 ingredients, including hog’s dung,
water-melon, thorns of one tree and splin-
ters of another.
And a Little Verse
MALEESH.
It is well to grow old, for no longer men
sit in the sun
With wine-flasks and fruit and glad girls
to purvey them delight,
But excited economists shatter our peace
with their din—
It is well to grow old.
I sigh not for youth, when I wasted my
substance with zest,
Giving thanks that I did so, since all my
adventures stay bright,
And to-day such are not to be bought though
one tender the cost—
I sigh not for youth.
I am glad to pass on with a song and a
laugh and a kiss
And a peach and a prayer and the thudding
of fists in a fight;
So let us get on with the business without
any fuss- —'
I am glad to pass on.
N.S.W.
GEOFFREY CUMINE.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notire f err ml of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped.. Name
and address*mill appedr on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntary submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Claude S.: Don’t see much promise any-
where. .. .Richard D.: Got as far as
Her silver dancing feet scarce touched
The ground she walked upon.
At those lines the basket always yawns.... Minx:
Has directness, which is a fine quality; but its
ending is weak... .H.A.K.: The serious ones show
a glimmer; but they are thin and obvious....
H.S.W.: You get too wrapped up in technical stuff
that doesn’t matter... .E.V.: Too like a well-known
Galsworthy short story.... M.F.: If you must dip
into the past get your historical details right....
R.G.E.: Our short-story page is not a soap-b0x....
F.T.F.: Home it goes S.R.: Churchwarden who
dipped into the offertory told to go and dip no
more... .A.D.Y.: Shows distinct promise. . . .N.C.:
Left downtrodden wife moistening pancakes with her
tears... .L.J.: Peg too small to hang a story on..
E.P.8.: Some good lines, but you over-sugar it....
Gill: Sunset on the sands with dead dreams for
company—only a genius could make anything of
that theme in 1932.... J.T.8.: They are so charm-
ing, they win forgiveness even for your dreadful
verse... .Ann M.: A poor imitation of a very bad
m0de1.... S.A.R.: Some of yours will take a bit of
thinking over... .Charlie’s Aunt: Well, drop it, or
Charlie won’t be proud of y0u.... Cassowary: Will
Lawson wrote “Shellin’ Peas.” A R.P. article on
the subject is in type.... Francis McC.: It’s little
you want, you say—and then you ask for happiness!
. ...V.8.K.: Pass the bottle again after your next
brewing. But get some sunshine into it.... Ronnie
W.: You seem to have the seed in you. Read on.
. ...T.T.T.: Poem Or a heap of mortar?... .L.M.:
Handed to the Woman’s Letter. It smacked its lips
at the thought of those black pearls; but it didn’t
offer to print the poem... .J. Fitz: Study story con-
struction ; you haven’t mastered the first principles
yet.,. .Helen R.: Altogether too hard to swallow.
....J. C. Caulfield: After Ed hits Jerry on the
skull everything ia corifused... .D.W.8.: Only humor
can redeem such yarns; and you’ve left that out.
....R.A.11.: Manner improved; but the theme is
still too slight... .N.S.M.: Weakish ending... .Car-
men F.: Not every man's meat, but very artistic... .
J.8.C.: Just a slick thriller. .. .R.A.J.: Proves the
often-proved, but uses some striking sentences in
doing it. Arrogance of the professor seems carried
too far. .. .C.8.C.: Poor rubbish... .W.H.0.: It was
never suggested that the late John Forrest was not
a good Federalist once the step was taken; the point
was that he resisted the popular movement for
months in Westralia and only came over under the
strongest pressure at the last moment.... Bellerive:
Ah, this is the sort of thing to make us old ’uns
sigh like furnaces :
POPULAR ACTRESSES OF THE PAST.
A public favorite was Mrs. George Rignold,
Who reigned in the years gone by;
Her portrayal of a horrible hag
Was great in the Romany Rye.
A versatile actress was Carrie Swain,
The star of a clever cast—
Old playgoers recalleth with pride
The bright little gem of the past.
Lily Dampier of our Australian stage
Performed from her girlhood days,
A emotional actress of dramatic power
Who shone in a number of plays.
....Phyllis T.: No,' but keep on thinking. We
like the way your thoughts shape... .R.L.G.: A
good picture, only kept out by cursed lack of space.
Gordon G.: Your sestet sounds like a sermon;
others too threadbare.... Adele B.: Neither substance
nor grace.... Ruby S.: “The sea is curling in the
sand to-day.” That will be a water-wave, no doubt.
But you’ve got the picture instinct, and may do
something yet.... Bitter W.: Judge from your
remarks that the south wind is really a vacuum-
cleaner A.M.H.: Neat, but very frail Mr. G.:
So well done that we alriiost forgot how old the
idea i5....A.A.: There’s the wild colt of poetry in
it W.C.T.: Nothing arresting in its well-laundered
stiffness... .Simmo: Feeble. .. .D. 8.: You add noth-
ing new to the old junk... .M.W.H.: Bowled out.
L.J.W.: Very obviously a first attempt D C.:
Plot doesn’t appeal 8.G.: With more humor and a
more artistic finish there would be hope for it.
Nudare: Flippetv-floppety rhymes without a
single redeeming phrase or thought... .H.T.8.: Flat
as stale beer L.A.S.: Thrown away, like the tea-
leaves R.W.A.: It's an old yarn, and you rhyme
villainously Jacey Alvis: That Dago pigeon-Eng-
lish is a weariness. Nothing appropriate except the
title, “Drew a Blank” G.G.T.: True enough, but
you don’t make a baby lyric out of it.... F.R.P:
Read your “psychological poem” carefully to the
end, as desired, and found it 88 creaking lines of
maudlin bathos.... Ranter: Tosh... .Barney: If
that’s your idea of a parody, there’s scant hope
of your ever seeing print T.W.W.: It isn’t a
sonnet, anyhow. And it would take more than the
two missing lines to make it ripple along, as even
a humorous sonnet should... .D.A.R.: As an exercise
in rhyme it might do for a school paper... .L. 8.:
Suspect your journalistic friends were pulling your
leg R.W.T.: Sounds like a poetaster in convul-
sions W.N.: Even the last four lines,
Me flamin’ tongue is parchin’,
And I tells you dinkum ’ere,
I’m stiff as a shirt with starch in.
Can you spare a bloke a beer?
fail to move us P.R.: There’s something over
familiar about the refrain. And why do you represent
yourself as having “chased gold in far-off Timbuktoo”
when Cue would have furnished just as good *
rhyme ?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.V.: Frith anticipated y0u....M.8.: Suggestion
hurled out II.B.: Cultivate a firmer, more flow-
ing line... .G.C.8.: Artistic oddities. . . .T.W.: A
down-at-heels specimen. .. .W. 8.: Same joke appeared
in a recent issue of “Passing Show”.. . .G.T.S.: A
bit stiff, though you have some sense of composi-
tion and decoration J.H.: Can say nothing good
about it C. 5.1.: Quite promising F.N.: Improv-
ing, but your work is still too heavy.... Hadf:
Not in our line E.M.S.: By no means a bright
effort D.H.W.: Scratchy J.C.: Your figures are
beginning to resemble human beings.. . .F.L.R.: Dog-
weary of that Americanism C.F.: Get more con-
trast between lights and shades. .. .E.W.: Would
look better in ink F.W.: Not Australian N.N.:
Too difficult a job for you R.C.S.: Would need
to see more of your work to judge; joke is feeble.
M.B.: Linework, scraggy C.F.: Words fail
us J.V.L.: A muddy effect K.M.: Still yawn-
ing.


"V<4
W v'
| v
I#
FAMOUS
WINES
I mm
- M
I »
wm
;t«jmmmmmmmm itiltl
■
•
: : I : - I H
*£&*■• JM
I
■; I
IBitif
■
t i L
:
■
:
■
::
*
V
MB
■
■
■
■
M
1
HB9I
■
'
*%:
mm
*
wgmm
In
m
u
mmmm
1
fi
Ml
a
s
■•■■■
ff;
wm
vf I
mf-
* n “M 1
nn
:
M ...
S*iM
■1
■1
■ ■ N
## y
c/fye Aad iid ixmifteitdiitwTte
99


The Bulletin
Vol. 53 No. 2713.
February 10, 1932.
BUT OF COURSE YOU CAN’T MAKE OMELETTES WITHOUT
SHOPWALKER STANLEY: “Well, we’ve chucked HIM out on his pink ear—the liar!”
SHOPWALKER JOE: “True, Stanley, true. But we’ve made a horrible mess of the window!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87911.
Victoria: IU/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, Ilf Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5196.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J/s.j 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for foz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
MUST WE LOOK FOR A
MUSSOLINI?
The manner in which the politicians are
handling the, situation becomes exasperating.
It is not only that their way is futile; in
plain English it is dishonest as well.
The Premiers have been meeting in Mel-
bourne, and the Loan Council has been in
session there. In May last year there were
similar meetings, and a “plan” was adopted.
In the 12 months then just ending the
deficits promised to amount to over 30 mil-
lions. For the following year it was esti-
mated that they would be over 40 millions.
The amount rather staggered the politicians,
not so much because of its size as because
the banks had begun to tell them that money
simply could not be got at this rate. The
easy Australian habit had been to assume
that there was no need to arrange about a
deficit—the thing just happened. These
Premiers, however, knew better than that.
They knew that, in our present circum-
stances, a deficit is neither more nor less
than a forced loan; and the difference be-
tween a forced loan and bushranging is not
large enough to be worth worrying about.
Still, though the banks on that occasion
made some sort of protest, and (though in
particular the chairman of the Common-
wealth Bank warned the Treasurer that “a
point is being reached beyond which it would
be impossible lor the bank to provide
further assistance,” the Premiers’ Conference
went cheerfully ahead budgeting for an
aggregate deficit of 14 millions for the cur-
rent year 1931-32—that is to say, for an
aggregate seizure of 14 millions from the
banks. That responsible men should hold
up the public’s trustees, the custodians of the
public’s deposits, and, with a gun at their
heads, demand that they should hand over
the trust money—that responsible men
should do this thing would be regarded as
very dreadful if we had not so largely lost
our sense of , what is wrong. As things are,
they not only budgeted for this compulsory
loan, but proceeded, some of them, to make
a greater loan inescapable. N. S. Wales had
declared that it could not live within six
millions of its means; on present appear-
ances it will be over nine millions short.
And Queensland, Westralia and Tasmania
will have deficits totalling millions be-
yond the maximum they were allowed under
the plan. That is to say, there was an
agreement among them that, for the sake
of respectability, they would jointly hold up
the banks and jointly demand 14 millions—
an amount reduced presently to 12 millions
through the Hoover moratorium. Now,
without even so much as consulting the
banks or giving them a word of warning,
the amount by which they are to be held
to ransom is increased by six millions.
And why? The gentlemen engaged in this
business of putting a gun to the heads of
the holders of the people’s deposits pro-
duce volumes of figures to show that they
have made economies here and cuts there.
And that is all very well. But if a man still
in receipt of an income twice as large as
he had a very few years back meets his
creditors and says that he cannot live within
his means, and in proof shows that he has
made a cut here and an economy there,
his creditors will merely call him an oily
humbug and a rogue. Which, of course, he
is. A man was sent to gaol the other day in
Sydney for six years for doing not a bit
worse than the majority of the Premiers
of Australia are doing at this moment.
He had a fair income, but in the boom days
had got into the habit of spending a great
deal more—he loved to be thought a good
father and a fine fellow—and when slacker
times came he did not cut down his expendi-
ture: he was, apparently, afraid to, just as
the politicians are. So he made his deficits
good out of other people’s money, just as
these politicians are doing: True, the poli-
ticians propose to pay interest and repay
principal. No doubt the Sydney man in-
tended to do that, too. But he got six years,
all the same. The Bulletin is not going to
say that there are seven Premiers in Aus-
tralia entitled to six years apiece; but it
does say that the conditions which will per-
mit honest men to do what the leading poli-
ticians of Australia have been doing for two
years past without being ashamed of thern-
selves Are very deplorable conditions, in-
deed,
When the man with an income twice the
size of. ihe one he lived on a few years ago
says he cannot live now within his means,
having contracted other habits, we simply
tell him to change his habits or go to gaol
as a dishonest bankrupt. From that point
of view, what is the position of Australia?
Back in 1918-19 the Commonwealth spent
38. millions. Ten years later it spent 81
millions. The Prime Minister’s Depart-
ment, which cost £56,642 in 1914-15, ran into
£1,515,707 in 1928-29. The States’ expendi-
ture on revenue account in 1918-19 was
£58,982,524; in 1928.-29 it was £120,925.565.
The aggregate figures were:—
1918-19. 1928-29.
Corrinionwea’th. . .. £ :8,262.585 £81,343,526
State 58,962,524 120,925,505
£97,225,109 £202,269,091
Thus in 10 years the aggregate outgoings of
Commonwealth and State Governments had
more than doubled—had increased, in fact,
by nearly 120 p.c. And the people who have
the handling of that money have the
colossal assurance to tell us that they really
can’t get ends to meet, but must rifle the
banks to make good their deficits!
They talk about their “adjustable” ex-
penditure. They say they have made
various reductions in this expenditure, from
15 p.c. in the case of N. S. Wales to 29
p.c. in the case of S. Australia. This 29 p.c.
by comparison looks large ; but what is even
a 29 p.c. reduction compared with a 120 p.c.
increase in 10 years? The truth of the
matter, of course, is that we never paid
these huge amounts out of revenue. Thus
we borrowed hundreds of millions, and
shipped the loans here as goods and col-
lected Customs duties when they landed.
We called that revenue, and because it in-
creased we increased our expenditure. Now,
the bogus revenue having faded, the expen-
diture has to go—nothing is surer. To talk
of a reduction of 15 or 20 p.c. in the cir-
cumstances is ridiculous.
Naturally the politicians are trying to
avoid it—-just as the man who was sent to
gaol for six years tried to avoid facing the
facts and cutting down expenditure. They
are. doing it. by dipping their hands into
other people’s pockets—sometimes telling
them that the “loan” will be repaid, some-
times calling it a tax. The first Common-
wealth income tax was levied during the war
years 1915-16. It was alleged to be for war
purposes only, and the story told was that
it would be taken off as soon as war necessi-
ties were past. Within the last two years
the Federal tax has been trebled in thou-
sands of cases, and now it amounts in quite
as many cases to five times the total of the
State tax. And as we saw last week a poor
devil barely on the bread-line in N. S.
Wales has to pay unemployment relief tax
of £lO 12s. a year.
In many, instances these are not taxes at
all; they are capital levies. They are doing
exactly what the Soviets want done—what
Mr. Lang wants done. They are gradually
stripping those with means and distributing
it among those who, being kept unemployed,
are without means.
The high taxation, the low productivity
of the country, the vast size of the army on
the dole and the almost equally dangerous
army of public servants are emptying the
reserves of capital upon which industry
might draw for its maintenance and exten-
sion ; at the same time we are keeping hun-
dreds of thousands in unemployment, where
they are receptive to the teachings of the
Communists. Thus we are sowing the seeds
of the social revolution and the overthrow
of the present system of civilisation with
both hands.
ONE MORE SCRAP OF PAPER.
On June 28, 1919, the representatives of
all the great nations of the world and of
many of the little ones signed a Solemn
League and Covenant. They had just
emerged from the greatest war of all his-
tory—a war primarily undertaken to prevent
a strong nation crushing a weaker one
whose integrity she had sworn by treaty to
respect and protect. None of the national
representatives who signed the Covenant,
therefore, had any excuse for regarding it as
merely a scrap of paper. They pledged the
nations they represented to submit to arbi-
tration or inquiry any dispute between any
of them that was likely to lead to a rupture,
and undertook not to resort to war until
three months after judgment had been de-
livered. They agreed to submit to arbitra-
tion any dispute between them which they
recognised to be suitable for submission to
arbitration and which could not be satisfac-
torily settled by diplomacy. And, finally,
they agreed that if they did not go to arbi-
tration they would submit their dispute to
the Council of the League of Nations. If
any party to. the Covenant dishonored any
of these three pledges, it was agreed that
all the others should regard the offence as
an act of war against all of them, break off
diplomatic negotiations, and take military
and naval measures against the pledge-
breaker.
It was a very high and noble and elevat-
ing set of resolutions, and would have been
a lot more impressive save for a little inci-
dent that preceded the signing. Japan, in
war-time, had pounced upon territory leased
by Germany in Shantung Province. This
territory Japan refused to return to China,
though it had no shadow of right to retain
it. But Japan was allowed to retain it by
the Council of Four at Versailles—a secret
covenant, secretly arrived at, and endorsed
by Woodrow Wilson, in direct contraven-
tion of the first of his Fourteen Points,
because Japan had threatened that if any
other decision were arrived at she would
•not ccme into the League of Nations. As
Robert. Lansing, Wilson’s second at the
Conference, remarked, Japan was certainly
bluffing, but even if she were not she was
better out of the League than in it in the
circumstances.
The second chapter of the story opened
on December 18 of last year when, Europe
and America being in the throes of a finan-
cial depression and much preoccupied with
their own troubles, the Japanese War Min-
istry announced that it had decided on an
“extensive campaign to clear Manchuria of
bandits.” Nobody took the slightest notice.
Two days later Japanese aeroplanes were
bombing Chinese regular troops in the
vicinity of Harbin. A big drive to. sweep
the Chinese out of the railway zone com-
menced, and a Japanese general “solemnly
warned” the Chinese Government not to
interfere. The Manchurian campaign con-
tinued. Cities were captured and occu-
pied with but little resistance. On the
last day of the year China appealed to
Geneva, which said it would send a com-
mittee over to see what all the trouble was
about. Early this year the U.S. Consul at
Mukden was attacked and beaten by Japan-
ese soldiers, and an official apology was
tendered in what Uncle Sam said was a
totally unsatisfactory manner, since it ex-
plained nothing. Uncle is outside the
League of Nations, but he protested to
Japan under the Nine-Power and Kellogg
Treaties against the occupation of Man-
churia. The Japanese explained that they
weren’t conducting a war or occupying Man-
churia; they were just acting in self-defence.
So the world went on its way. On the 38th
day of the war the Japanese invaded Shang-
hai with the avowed intention of putting
down anti-Japanese organisations. The
Great Powers whose toes were trodden on
by this development protested mildly, and
were told that Japan was still bravely
defending herself, and that on no account
would Shanghai be used as a base for war-
like operations. The Prime Minister of
Britain said he greatly regretted that such
events should happen, though he blamed no-
body. The London “Daily Mail” blamed
China, and suggested that Chinese mobs
shouldn’t be allowed to murder Japanese.
W. M. Hughes, who signed the League
Covenant for Australia, said that probably
Japan was right, but even if she wasn’t
nobody could turn her out of China. On
the 40th day of the war the Japanese, using
Shanghai as a base, commenced an attack
on Nanking, the southern capital of China.
During the whole of these remarkable
proceedings not one of those gentlemen who
signed the Covenant has considered it his
duty to his nation to call attention to the
fact that the document is getting badly rat-
eaten, and that if Article XVI of it isn’t
invoked in present circumstances the whole
rigmarole might as well never have been
written.
PROPOSED CONFERENCE OF THREE
STATES.
It is proposed, on the part of Premier Hill,
of South Australia, to invite a convention
of the three “smaller States” of the Com-
monwealth to consider the injuries they
have suffered through Federation. The
three consist of the most enormously
bloated self-governing State in the world,
the third largest of the Australian provinces
(it may be described as the Middle Bloat),
and the smallest and least populous of the
group. They have 18 out of the 36 members
of the Senate instead of the seven or eight
to which they would be entitled on a popu-
lation basis, and one of them (Tasmania)
is over-represented in the Lower Federal
House also. If they were unanimous about
their injuries they could hold up Federal
legislation until they secured redress, but
they aren’t within many cubic miles of
unanimity. Two of the States (Queensland
and N. S. Wales) are fully qualified both
by area and population to be subdivided
into three States each, making six in all,
and if the people would concentrate on this
matter there might be a much-needed re-
adjustment of Australia. Westralia is badly
in want of subdivision because of its
unwiekty dimensions, but it lately went off
on a tangent, and decided to ti-y its pren-
tice hand at secession instead, and the
N. S. Wales New State party or parties
show signs of having gone mad on a clamor
for less manufactures, and mote imports, and
less revenue from import duties, though
the Federal Treasury, with something like
£80,000,000 of overdrafts and floating debts,
is almost at the last gasp for more revenue
instead of less.
James Mitchell, the secessionist leader in
Westralia, has weighed in with a declara-
tion that “if we are to meet our commit-
ments we must receive a greater share of
the indirect taxation collected by the Com-
monwealth.” Precisely how Jimmy Mitchell
expects to get a greater share of the Com-
monwealth’s tax revenue if Westralia leaves
the Commonwealth doesn’t appear, and
the position doesn’t square with his
denunciations of the Commonwealth as a
grinding tax-collector. The position might
be improved if Westralia abandoned the
position of being the biggest self-governing
State in the world, and consequently didn’t
have quite such extensive “commitments.”
A total of £24 12s. 9d. per head per annum
looks too much.
1 he position is certainly bad, and the pro-
posed triangular conference of three
smaller States’" is an effort to explain how
everything would have been beautiful but
for hederation and for the other fellow.
Except for the grotesque and wildly erratic
Lang, who has a broken Savings Bank and
a busted Rural Bank and a general default
to his individual discredit, one fellow really
seems pretty much the same as another, and
the effort to pass along the blame is rather
futile. Most people had a share in the
carefully-cultivated delusion about the mag-
nificent natural resources of the country,
and were ready to borrow every available
copper at any possible rate of interest on
the security of these resources. Australia
specialises in wheat, and the Common-
wealth Year-Book enumerates 38 countries,
which are strong in this line. Australia is
26th for yield per acre. In the matter of
oats it is 34th on a list of 36 producers, and
its general position is down near the bottom
—about 14 bushels per acre where the top
producer turns out about 50 bushels per
acre. As a wheat-producer nearly half this
continent is ruled out as_being too hot, and
about 36 per cent, as being permanently too
dry, while a proportion of the land is rocks
and scenery. Regarding its minerals, which
have been greatly cracked up, the Austra-
lian gold production was worth about £l7
per inhabitant per annum at the top of the
first gold boom in 1853 or thereabouts. It
was about £4 per inhabitant at the top of
the second gold boom in 1903. In 1930
(the total for 1931 isn’t available yet) Aus-
tralia’s gold return was given as about 6s.
per inhabitant. Things like that happen
to “great natural resources.”
The great loan mania undermined things
in a general way. Australia floated loans for
works which seemed likely to pay working
expenses and interest. Then it progressed
till, in recent years, it floated record loans
to pay interest on old loans, and to buy
votes with, and to perpetrate works which
only lost money. There came a time when
about 20,000 men and their families (if
any) were living on the building of unpro-
fitable works charged up against loans.
When they were tin-own out of employment
through the bursting of the bubble, the
“great natural resources” were left to
stagger under so many burdens that they
pretty nearly gave up the pretence of great-
ness. The outstanding difference between
the breakage here and the one in England
was that the Old Man’s foreign loans
weren’t stopped, because at the worst he
paid his own way. The other outstanding
difference was that his Freetraders wanted
to buy their wheat cheaply, while ours want
to concentrate on the growing of wheat—
the “primary product,” which we sell for
very little.
There is no short road back to prosperity
in a rather poor land, either by secession, or
by repudiation, or by denouncing the Com-
monwealth. or by denouncing the other
States; and there is certainly none in the
proposal of the Country-party leaders, in-
cluding Boss-Borrower Page, to start a
general war on the best industries we have,
and provide room for more imports, and
nnike a sacrifice of Customs revenue. The
idea is an orthodox sort of thing and is
much favored by the “best people,” but
this scheme for throwing the farmer’s best
customers overboard lacks commonsense.
When the Country party succeeds with its
policy of making new States and wants
some factory industries to put in its State
capitals, it may awaken to the fact.
JAMES ESMOND.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Fire in Asia.
“Feng-Shui” watches the start of two:—
I once witnessed a British invasion of Chapei,
the huge industrial suburb of Shanghai where
Nippon is at present engaged in spreading the
blessings of Japo-European civilisation by means of
machine-guns and bombs. The British invasion was
by request. Burnt or driven out of Nanking during
the looting of that city by Northern troops, 10,000
poor wretches had sought refuge on the edge of
the International Settlement, having come 150 miles
by rail and boat in the hope of finding security from
their fellow-countrymen in the proximity of the
foreign pale. They not long set up their
miserable shelters of mat and baga when fire swept
them into the streets again. No sooner had the
fire started than their beggars’ camp went up like
struck matches; then the conflagration spread into
the permanent part of the Chapei district, a
perfect rabbit-warren of two-storeyed terrace-houses
and factories, the temple of the god of the
weather, rotten rows of little tinder shops, and
hordes of sampans lying like stranded fish on
the stinking mud of the Soochow Creek. The
nearest water supply was the creek, and here the
four British fire-brigades and a French brigade had
set up their engines, while long lines of hose
wandered off, out of the foreign territory, across
the creek and along the tortuous streets in all
directions.
On the farther side of the blaze two Chinese
brigades poured buckets of water on the embers,
tally clerks sitting at tables handing sticks by way
of token to the queues of volunteer coolies, who,
after emptying their buckets, went off to a pay
office to cash their checks before hurrying back for
more. A Chinese admiral with a retinue of soldiers
with fixed bayonets kept back the crowd, all poten-
tial looters. IJe was my timid little friend Sir
Admiral Sah, K.C.M.G., and he was sneezing violently
and looking apologetic as if he had caused the blaze
himself. The foreign brigades were all volunteers
and chiefly bank clerks, who had been summoned from
theatres and taipans, who had left their bridge
parties and were now performing deeds of heroism


in evening dress amongst an apathetic crowd of
natives, who would not raise a hand , tO ,
Enormous quantities of goods and household chattels
5 looked as if they would be better burnt were
being removed out of harms way, and the wheel
barrow coolies, true to the principle of supply and
demand had put up their prices inordinately. In
one house I saw an old woman and a child struggling
with a heavy box, trying to lower it from a bal-
cony with an inadequate rope which broke whe
the' box was half-way down. In the next house,
a restaurant, business was proceeding as usual the
struggle for existence in China goes on in tace of
worse threats than fire. Over the crest of the same
row flames were leaping m great soaring jets , but
with characteristic fatalism the occupants had only
just begun the work of salvage.
The god of the weather, T’ien Ch’i, in revenge
for the devastation of his shrine, raised a high
wind, which hurried on the work of destruction;
and before the brigades had got the fire in hand
nearly a square mile of the densely-packed area had
been burnt out and 20,000 people were homeless.
If anybody wants a text for a sermon on inter-
national co-operation he is welcome to the above.
The fire which Japan or China started in Manchuria
—each side blames the other—was recognised five
months ago as a danger to the peace of the world.
The international fire-brigade, known as the League
of Nations, promptly went into session and passed
a series of solemn resolutions aimed at confining the
fire to reasonable limits while measures were being
devised for stamping it out altogether. Since then
the Governments whose delegates voted for the
resolutions have tacitly repudiated all responsibility.
The fire has spread until three provinces of China,
with a population of 30,000,000, have been occupied
by Japanese troops, for whose actions Tokio alter-
nately accepts and rejects the responsibility. Help-
less from a military point of view, the Chinese
have retorted on Japan by refusing to buy Japanese
goods. Japanese trade has dropped to vanishing
point, millions of pounds’ worth of goods are held
up in the warehouses of Shanghai, Tientsin and
Canton, and the Japanese commercial fleet lies idle.
Though Japan may succeed in occupying native
Shanghai, with its population of a million, she will
not stop the boycott. She will only be obliged to
invade more of the Yangtse valley. The occupation
of Soochow, Nanking and Hankow should offer no
difficulties; they could even be demolished, if neces-
sary, since the navy can steam up and down the
Yangtse without let or hindrance. The Chinese
boycott, however, is likely to proceed, despite these
military disasters. In fact, it may gain impetuosity,
since the Kuomintang has grafted on to the most
pacific race in history a sense of nationality.
Meantime, Russia, a potential looter, stands at
attention on the frontiers of Manchuria. There
are rumors of a French concentration on the Indo-
Chinese frontier, where Torgking abuts on Yunnan,
the second largest province of China, with a popu-
lation of' 15 millions and huge mineral resources.
America talks of an economic boycott of Japan
and sends notes on the subject to Britain, which
replies with polite evasions. As history has a habit
of repeating itself, Italy may be expected at any
moment to weigh in with a demand for compensa-
tion, i.e., for a slice of the Chinese melon, as she
did after the last large-scale subdivision. The
other signatories to the solemn League and the
equally solemn Covenant are reported to be watch-
ing events with interest. A fire is always inter-
esting.
—
The American and' Japanese Fleets.
The cables assert that American feeling
against Japan is so hostile as to threaten
early armed action. It is also stated that
the American Government, which has mobil-
ised its Pacific fleet at Hawaii for annual
manoeuvres, has decided to keep it there.
The decision may be regarded as a wise
one. There had been some idea of the fleet
concentrating at Manila. Any action of the
sort might have precipitated disaster.
The actual strength of the American
Pacific fleet is not known. A year ago it
was announced that it and the Atlantic fleet
had been merged into one. With no danger
threatening in the Atlantic, it may be pre-
sumed that America has, somewhere be-
tween Panama and Hawaii, 75 per cent, of
her effective ships—her submarine strength
is not likely to be considerable, though there
is a base at Manila.
The latest official lists show America as
having 15 first-class battleships. She has
no battle-cruisers, but a fair proportion of
fast, lightly-armed'cruisers of a good type,
and three aircraft-carriers, two of them
known to be at Hawaii. The personnel of
the American Navy, with its short-service
lower-deck enlistment, is not one inspiring
confidence in its fighting capacity. The
officers, on the other hand, are highly-
trained men of undoubted quality.
While the Americans, if the worst comes
to pass, will have to operate some thou-
sands of miles from their dockyards, and
bases, though Manila provides some accom-
modation of the kind, the Japanese will
practically be working in their own home
waters, with three great dockyards, the
most distant of them only 750 miles
away from the present centre of disturb-
ance. Every shell fired by the Americans
will have to be replaced from their own
far-off country. The Japanese are within a
few hours of their munition supplies.
The Japanese possess one of the com-
pletest and most efficient fleet units in the
world —possibly the best of them all. Their
six front-line battleships are the most
heavily-armed in the world to-day, with
one or two British exceptions. Their four
modern battle-cruisers are ranked with the
fastest and hardest-hitting of their kind
afloat—America has nothing to meet them.
There are, in addition, seven armored
cruisers, slightly out of date, but very
heavily armored and gunned. Japan can
claim an ample supply of fast, light cruisers,
and she has 66 modern submarines which
will ne'ver be called on to operate far from
their bases.
The personnel of the Japanese navy is
of high repute, though it has never yet been
tested by being asked to stand up to
heavy punishment. The land forces,
however, have come through tests of the
kind with infinite credit. There is no reason
to suppose their sea-going brethren will fail
in this respect.
♦
Lese Majeste: New Style.
Mr. Laidlaw, a Sydney magistrate, has
imposed a fine of £2 on Eric Campbell,
leader of the New Guard, for “haying used
insulting words” about the Premier. The
prosecution was brought under the Vagrancy
Act, a fact) which might be construed as an
insult to the defendant, who was described
by a witness for the prosecution, a detec-
tive-sergeant, as “a man with a distin-
guished war record, a high-minded and an
honorable man.” It was obviously so con-
strued by the Lang newspaper, which has
been hurling mud at Campbell and his
associates for months, and which celebiated
the issue of the summons by breaking out
into a riot of headlines, one of which was
“Vagrancy Act Is Invoked Against the
Leader of the New Guard.”
But the invoking of the Vagrancy Act had
another purpose, which was to enable the
Premier to shoot without being shot at.
Said the magistrate:—
It was claimed by Mr. Lamb, K.C., for the
defendant, that, in order to show that the words
charged were not in fact insulting, he was entitled
to show that they were true. Mr. Sheahan, for the
Crown, pointed out that there was no provision in
the Vagrancy Act, similar to that in the Defamation
Act, enabling a defendant charged with using in-
sulting words to plead justification. I held Mr.
Sheahan's view of the law was the conect one, and
excluded evidence tending to show that the words
charged were true.
So Campbell was punished for “insulting ’
a Premier who insults opponents nearly
every time he mentions them, and insults
New South Wales every moment of his
Premiership. Even while the magistrate
was ruling that Campbell had insulted this
Premier, this Premier was polluting his high
office and making the name of his State
stink by bilking its creditors. Haranguing
his mob on the following night, he suggested
a boycott of newspapers which criticise him,
and attributed words to a former Prime
Minister (“We must put men off at the
rate of so many thousands a month so that
the people may become accustomed to
unemployment”) which led that person to
stigmatise him as a deliberate liar. De-
liberate liar he has become—nowadays when
his crooked mind gets excited he seems
incapable of telling the truth—but you may
not say so, unless you are a politician.
Neither may you say that this Premier is
a defaulter, or that ~ he broke the Savings
Bank and was the means of enriching
moneylenders, who bought the passbooks of
the thrifty poor for as little as 10s. 6d. in the
£; or that this Premier exercised his patron-
age in the interest of persons who had served
sentences for' serious offences, or that he
is the close associate of a man whom he has
himself proclaimed a repudiationist, and of
others who are notorious Red revolution-
aries. It is all true, but if you speak the
truth in a public place you are liable to be
fined, and perhaps imprisoned, under the
Vagrancy Act; for, if Mr. Laidlaw’s inter-
pretation of the law is right, the truth is
no defence.
—
Well, Suppose He Is a Scoundrel!
Eric Campbell, leader of the New Guard
in N. S. Wales, told a public meeting that
Lang was a scoundrel, and Laidlaw, S.M.,
ruled that on a charge of insulting language
the accused could not plead truth. Camp-
bell was therefore fined £2.
Thus far —though it will make no promises
for the future — The Bulletin has not called
Mr. Lang a scoundrel. But suppose he is a
scoundrel, what then? That wouldn’t dis-
qualify him from holding any position to
which politics can carry a man in Australia.
There is nothing in law which says that a
scoundrel shall not be either an elector or
the elected.
Too many people, including scoundrels,
have a hand in the difficult and respon-
sible job of governing the country, and they
start too early. It would not be amiss if the
age at which the future voter could get on
to any kind of electoral roll and be eligible
to sit in any kind of elected assembly was
increased to 23 or 24 years. The change
needn’t involve the putting off the roll of
anybody who is already on it. It would
only mean that the youth or flapper who
wanted to get on would have more time
to learn discrimination, and decide whether
a scoundrel is a desirable representative or
not. It doesn’t necessarily follow that a
young man (or woman) shouldn’t come into
his property at 21, that being very different
from coming into the nation’s property, or
that he shouldn’t fall due for compulsory
military service at 18. A youth may be old
enough to be shot at or to shoot when he is
too young to select the legislator who
directs the shooting. The average length of
life has increased of late years, and the
responsibility of managing public affairs has
also increased. The fellow who invented
oversea loans devised something which is
beyond the scope of the 21-year-old elector.
Furthermore, there aren’t nearly enough
ways of getting the elector off the roll after
he has arrived. Superfluous electors are
possibly 30 per cent, of the whole number.
The holder of the suffrage should be a
superior person, not only approaching such
maturity as he is likely to arrive at but dis-
tinguished by his lack of previous convic-
tions. The disqualified should be off the
list not because he is lower than the lower
animals, but because he doesn’t measure up,
to the high standard which should charae-
terise the person who chooses the individu-
als who make the nation’s laws and who
is qualified to be one of them. Should the
disqualified feel that his position is unbear-
able there is no reason, so far .as Australia is
concerned, why he shouldn’t leave for parts
unknown.
Any attempt to disqualify the criminal or
semi-criminal voter would meet with fierce
but decreasing opposition. A certain kind
of member finds the worst kind of voter an
asset. About three years, or one Parlia-
ment, after the cleaning or weeding-out pro-
cess commenced, an appreciable number of
the more objectionable members might
begin to lose their nominations. And the
habit of being particular about a reasonably
clean Legislature would probably grow
when once' started. There might come a
time when Lang would be disqualified for
life by reason of his busted bank alone.
*
Class Taxation.
Dear Bulletin, —A great number of tax-
payers are suffering injustice by reason of
the class taxation imposed by the Scullin
Government. While it has been a recog-
nised principle in the past that property
income should bear a heavier rate of tax-
ation than personal-exertion income, the
rate now imposed on property income
amounts to little less than a capital levy,
and inflicts great hardship on those people
whose sole income is from property and on
which they are relying for support in old
age. Not being satisfied with increasing the
property rates of tax, and in addition reduc-
ing the exemption from £250 to £2OO, and
reducing that exemption at a faster rate
than under personal-exertion income, the
Government imposed a further special tax
of 2s. in the £, a flat rate of tax on all
property income. This should be promptly
cancelled. The following table shows how
unjustly it works out:
Federal Taxation, 1931.
Tax
Payable on
same In-
come from
Personal
Exertion.
Total Tax (Salaries,
Property Wages, Pro-
Ordinary Special Income fits from
Tax Tax (Rents, Conduct-
Total Property Property Dividends, ing Busi-
Ineome. Income. Income. Interest), ness, etc.)
£ £ s. d. £ s. d. £ s. d. £ s. d.
201 3 2 0 2 3 Nil
225 10 5 3 14 0 4 4 5 Nil
250 1 3 5 7 10 0 813 5 Nil
275 118 11 11 6 0 13 411 10 3
300 216 3 15 0 0 17 6 3 1 1 8
400 710 0 30 0 0 37 10 0 4 2 7
500 14 1 3 -45 0 0 59 1 3 8 7 0
600 23 10 0 60 0 0 S 3 10 0 1314 10
800 40 13 4 80 0 0 120 13 4 26 13 4
1000 62 10 0 100 0 0 162 10 0 38 10 10
2000 231 5 0 200 0 0 431 5 0 129 3 4
3700* 729 4 2 370 0 0 1099 4 2 402 15 2f
*Flat rate of 7s. 6d. in £ commences at £3701.
(Flat rate of 7s. 6d. in £ commences at £6901.
In addition, the taxpayer has to pay the
State and Unemployment Relief taxes, the
latter in N. S. Wales being almost as bad
as the special property tax.—Yours faith-
fully, W. H. L. Walter, F.C.A.
*
Australia, Canada and Fiji.
“Nawai” writes from Fiji:—
“Bolt Rope” (B. 6/l/’32) says Fiji gets more
American and in the process grows actually anti-
Australian. It does not grow more American than,
say, Auckland, and is a good deal less Yankeefied
than Sydney. True, the Matson liners calling here har e
some little influence, but these ships call at Suva
without any subsidy, whereas we have for years sub-
sidised and still do subsidise the British steamers
Aorangi and Niagara. We have a British Empire tariff
which puts U.S.A. goods 15 per cent, ad valorem
worse off than British; outside of petrol and petrol
products, American goods are not in abundance.
With regard to Fiji growing anti-Australian, as
far as trade goes there is an inclination that way,
though so far very little marked tendency. The
reason is that Australia has grown definitely anti-
Fiji. Australia prohibits Fiji sugar, a decade ago
practically killed our banana industry by exces-
sively high dilty, and a year ago put Fiji rubber
at ,4d. per pound disadvantage with Papuan rubber.
The effect is that over the last 10 years Fiji has on
an average bought from Australia' £449,845 worth.
Australia bought from Fiji £79,645. Our total
import figure for 1930 is £1,184,461, and Australia is
easily first of countries that sell tp us, Britain being
second with £373,694. Australia thus supplies us
with close to half of our total purchases. These
figures refute the statement about “buying Aus-
tralian goods in Fiji with difficulty.”
As regards Fiji’s anti-Australianism, there is in
this little colony at long last the dawn of a
spirit of retaliation against Australia through our
tariff. We can now make preferences against dif-
ferent parts of the Empire, and we can now hit
Australia through our tariff as she hits us through
hers. We made a start recently by granting cer-
tain tariff advantages to Britain, Canada and Maori-
land, leaving Australia out in the cold. The
three first-named countries take almost all our ex-
ports ; the trade figures between Canada and Fiji
showing that whilst we have been selling her about
£500,000 a year we have bought from her less than
£lOO,OOO.
In common with the rest of the world, this little
Speck wants to get down to sane and balanced
trading, and it is certain that we are trying to
buy less from Australia that buys so little from us,
and to buy more from Canada, who buys so much
from us. If this is anti-Australianism, then the
seed has sprouted. But in the growing process we
shall not move towards U.S.A., but definitely to-
wards Canada.
Western Canada and Fiji are both washed by the
Pacific Ocean, and there is a feeling that Canada
and Fiji can be to each other what U.S.A. and
Hawaii have been and are. Our destiny then seems
to be with the great Dominion of Canada, unless
I perhaps Australia can lift her eyes beyond the
I rigid line of her eastern coast, and, just as she
looks northward to Papua, look eastward also to the
groups of islands lying in thaji part of the Pacific.
Of one thing Australia can be sure: the time has
cr o ne when she can sell us half-a-million’s worth of
goods per year and buy from us about one-tenth
of that amount.
“Trades Hall Tyranny.”
From 0. Schreiber, Gen. Sec. Furnishing
Trade Society, N.S.W. Branch:—
In your issue of the 3rd inst. Mr. Fearn returns
to the attack on my society; I think I can show,
however, that his premises are untenable and hxs
allegations false.
Take, firstly, his statement that his interview
have been in the main with myself. MV reply
to this is that his interview (in company with his
wife —August 26, 19? l) was with our Mr. Robertson
and that he has only dealt with that officer am
Mr. Archer, and at no time with me. 1 was not
aware of his visits to and business with the office
till some time later, and have not yet seen the
man, let alone discussed any matter wdth him.
He is also as unreliable in regard to other phase.-,.
I say without any qualification whatever that he is
not enrolled as a member, since he drew his cleai -
ante for New Zealand in 1929 ; that he has been told
that this is the position, and also that until he
enrolls himself he cannot claim membership. Re-
garding his possession of a 1930-31 contribution-
card, he must be aware that this does not connect
him as a member; it was issued, I now learn,
under a misapprehension, to enable him to obtain
concession rates from the society’s dental service.
The only proof of membership recognised under our
registered rules is a signed and dated certificate of
membership, which holds good until lesignaticn
or a clearance is taken, and this came to pass in
Mr. Fearn’s case when he took his clearance in
1929. (To rejoin, either on a clearance or other-
wise, an entrance form must always be filled in,
this being necessary to conform to a Court ruling
to establish membership ; and Mr. Fearn, disregard-
ing this requirement, keeps himself outside union
ranks.) Consequently he has not been subject to
our rules for upwards of three years, and what he
cares to do a's a non-unionist is his own affair, into
which we do not intrude.
As to the Legal Aid Department’s interest in the
matter, the position had reached practically the final
stage precedent to a prosecution; but upon receipt
of our explanation of the circumstances, the matter
was taken no further.
Finally, he asks what good reason exists for his
being kept out of work. This, of course, is beg-
ging the question. He conveniently ignores the
fact that the depression has hit the furnishing indus-
try worse than any other. We have well over 1000
tradesmen out of employment, and some hun-
dreds of these for a much longer period
than Mr. Fearn. The best advice he could be
given by those who may have his welfare in
mind, apart from political propaganda, would be
to become a member again (this in his case would
cost nothing), and ventilate any complaint he has
either direct to me (I should like to make his
acquaintance) or my executive, or even now consult
the Industrial Registrar, who would no doubt explain
to him his true position.
*
The High Cost of Distribution.
In our fight to reduce the cost of living, and
thus our cost of production, much more
attention will have to be paid to distribu-
tion. There is our weakest point. A certain
small article is produced in Sydney and sold
to wholesale distributors at 2s. Material
and labor cost Is. 5d., leaving 7d< to cover
rent, insurance, wear and tear and deprecia-
tion of plant, rates, taxes and profit. The
profit does not amount to 2d. The retailer
gets the article at 2s. lOd. It is on sale
in city shops at 4s. 6d. A dairy-farmer
the other day wanted a new separator. The
local agent quoted £4O c.o.d. Pressed to do
better, he offered to cut his commission in
order to make a sale. He got 15 p.c. He
kept'no stock, had no parts, did no service;
merely had a bundle of circulars. And he
was not dealing direct with the manufac-
turer: there were two other middlemen,
who consumed another 25 p.c. or more,
A maker of wireless sets was lately getting
a shade over 40 p.c. of the sale price of
the sets; sale and distribution took a
shade under 60 p.c. He could not pay for
the parts he had to buy and live on the
40-odd p.c., so he went out of business. The
producer of milk, fruit and vegetables who
averaged 40 p.c. of the selling price would
be on the high road to fortune.
We have got far too much into the habit
of dwelling upon the difficulties to be met in
grappling with this problem. Cost of distri-
bution is absurdly high in many lines be-
cause we insist upon distribution where no
distribution ought to be necessary. We
Australians probably do our marketing with
as little intelligence as any people in the
world. In many a European town of 30,000
people you will not find three fruit-and-
vegetable shops; nine-tenths of the market-
ing is done at the markets, and the house-
wife carries home her own supplies. Even
in Australia you will find the foreigner,
American or European, going home with a
bundle of parcels; they do that in his own
country. We must ‘‘have it sent.” The
butcher must deliver his customer’s pound
of breakfast sausages and make another
delivery of his little bit of corned beef for
dinner; and that costs at least as much as
the meat cost the butcher.
It is not too much to say that two-thirds
of those engaged in distribution in Aus-
tralia to-day are entirely superfluous: one-
third could do the job better and save con-
sumers millions a year; and the saving of
millions to the consumers would reduce
the costs of the producers. These super-
fluous tens of thousands at present go into
trade because they can see an easier and,
on the whole, more profitable living that
way than in production. Well, that is our
own fault. We must lay ourselves out to
make things good for the producer. And
that means co-operation between the pro-
ducers. The politician who tries to set up
a quarrel between the primary and the
secondary producer is either an ass or a
rogue. These are not enemies; the real
enemy of each is the parasite the non-
producer who is on the backs ol them both;
a necessary evil in moderation, but an un-
mitigated curse in the quantities in which
we know him.


\
aait, .* ..r. .
aV
■
“ I’ve been smoking them for
over five years and have never
found them vary one iota!”
CRAVEN A
ijCORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AfrFbCT tOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years’ Reputation for Quality
POLITICAL
POINTS
As another instalment of Protection, the
British Government is clapping a 10 per
cent, duty on all imports except wheat, tea,
cotton, wool and two or three other things.
The 10 per cent, is not to apply to Dominion
produce till the Ottawa conference in July;
then there will be brisk bargaining, particu-
larly as J. Bull means to say “What am I
offered in return for wheat quotas?” Mean-
while, the new preferences will be a help (o
our meat-export trade, among others. J.B.’s
own trade, liis Chancellor of the Exchequer
says, is steadily improving, and income-tax
receipts to Jan. 1, when three-quarters of
the year’s tax is payable, amounted to
£105,000,000 compared with £60,000,000 on
Jan. 1, 1931.
The Loan Council has arranged affairs up
to June. That is to say, it lias arranged
that the Commonwealth Bank and the joint-
stock banks are to find £26,872,000, being
about 12,600,000 for revenue shortages,
£7,300,000 public works and nearly
“Better put ’em on again, gentlemen; you’ll
need them after June.”
£3,000,000 for the wheat bounty. Yet N. S.
Wales, which, has got, or is getting, about as
much as the other States combined, has de-
faulted. After June the Commonwealth
Bank will have the last word. The States
can say that they want so much. The Loan
Council may cut their irreducible minimum
down 25 per cent. The bank will reserve
the right to cut it down a great deal, more
per cent., for it has to find the money, and
there is nothing* to be gained by going broke.
Allowing for the inevitable swing against
a party which has had a phenomenal win,
young McCall did well to get within a few
hundred votes of Lang-planner Ward in the
East Sydney by-election. Ward polled about
the same number of votes as in December,
and about 2000 fewer than in March ; so the
Lang plan makes no progress, even in places
like Paddington. The Communist candidate
and Cunningham, who was one of Scullin's
Ministers, lost their deposits. The A.W.U.
backed Cunningham, and its evening news-
paper came out with astonishing allegations
of roll-stuffing and with other charges, which
will all have to be inquired into.
The heads of the N.S.W. Nat. Associa-
tion and the All for Australia League have
fallen out again, and their wrangle did
McCall no good in East Sydney. The
A.F.A. accuses the Nats, of having gone
back on a November agreement regarding
the merging of both organisations in the
U.A.P. What is there about N. S. Wales
that makes its politicians go in for so much
faction fighting? Racially the people are
no different from those in other parts of
Australia, and the climate is milder than
most. Nevertheless the State seems fated
to be a large-scale political Donnybrook.
How the Lang gang loathes Victoria!
Its faction fight with the Scullidores origi-
nated in the feeling that there were too
many Victorians in their Ministry ; and now.
of course, it has transferred its provincial
fury, with other hatreds added, to Lyons-
Latham. “The people of New South Wales
are fighting with their backs to the wall
against a pack of dingoes led by the Vic-
torian-controlled Federal Government,” yelled
Lang on Friday night. If this goes on the
Trades Hall will yet declare war on Victoria
and order out the basher gang.
Out of favor with the Labor conference
and dependent on Independents in the Leg.
Assembly, the Hogans will have to make
up their minds in the next eight weeks (Par-
liament resumes on April 6) whether they
will ride for a fall or just jog along. The
electors must be faced within nine
months; the present Assembly was chosen
on Nov. 30, 1929. It .is no longer
possible for Hogan and the. handful
devoted to him to follow the example of the
Lyons group, though it was feasible in
May or June. People on the other side have
ceased to burn incense to Hogan and Jones.
In spite of many objections, the new
Queensland electoral boundaries as defined
by the Commission are to stand. The Com-
mission, however, recommends that the name
of Dalby be retained for that electorate
which, with portions of others, was to
have been re-christened Auburn, and that
Chillagoe, at present represented by Atherton,
the Minister of Alines, be re-named The
Tableland. One aggrieved country member
is threatening to take his wrongs to the
Supreme Court.
The Commonwealth Government should
not let the month go by without taxing lot-
tery prizes and announcing that income*
tax rates will be correspondingly reduced
next year. On £20,000 of property income the
present Federal taxes (ordinary and
“special”) amount to £BB4l. Yet £20,000
prizes in Lang’s lotteries are advertised as
being “free of Federal and State income
taxes.” Lang may do what he pleases on
his own dunghill, but neither he nor any
of his officers should be allowed to speak
for the Commonwealth in this matter. Nor
can the Commonwealth without dishonoring
itself take nearly half a property-owner’s
income and let. the gambler go scot-free.
Brisbane has just been told that its Town
Hall cost £977,500, and that annual
revenue shows a “surplus” of £12,800 over
expenditure, excluding interest. Delay in
publishing the financial truth about white
elephants is perhaps natural, but it wouldn’t
be tolerated in any country but easy-going
Australia. N. S, Wales has yet to learn
how much was spent on the grandiose Sav-
ings Bank building, in which Lang’s lottery
was housed when he burst the bank—there
have been scores of suites to let ever since
the place was opened—and on the Sydney-
Newcastle motor road.
R, T. Ball, who introduced the Sydney
Harbor Bridge Bill—largely at the bidding
of a paper, now defunct, which used to wind
up its copious articles on the subject with the
wofds “This Bridge Must Be Built” —is not
to be among the flock of speakers at the
opening ceremony, and his friends are pro-
testing vigorously. Still, the public will have
had more than enough spouting when it has
heard Lang, Davidson, the members for
Sydney and North Sydney, the mayors of the
same. Dr. Bradfield and two representatives
of the contractors; and, anyhow, Ball could
be better occupied. He could make it. a day
of fasting and prayer.
Westralia’s Mitchell Government was
rather nervous about the by-election for Roe-
bourne, the loss of which would have placed
it at the mercy of an Independent. How-
ever, when 374 votes had been counted (there
are only 460 electors) the Labor man had a
mere 68. That blasted his hopes, although he
may pull up a bit when the out-hack boxes
come in.
“It’s a Lang, Lang trail a-leadin' from the
loans of my dreams.”
Keane, the rejected Labor M.H.R. for
Bendigo, confided to the Vic. A.L.P. con-
ference that he had moved in caucus “that
the £28,000,000 due overseas should be held
in Australia for'a year. This, together with
the £11,000,000 exchange, would have saved
Australia.” Which shows how incapable
Keane is of seeing further than his nose.
Britain, our biggest creditor, is far and away
our best customer. At the time to which
Keane refers it was very near national
bankruptcy, as Snowden has revealed.
Default on the part of Australia would
very probably have precipitated the catas-
trophe. In that case we should not only
have destroyed our credit, but wrecked our
greatest overseas market. And this, Keane
thinks, would have “saved Australia.”
Thank God, Australia has been saved from
Mr. Keane and his kidney!
“Former Minister Anstey, who said in December
that he ‘stood solidly behind the Scullin Ministry’s
great principles,’ sided with Lang-planner Ward in
East Sydney, though Mr. Scullin, of the ‘great
principles,’ spoke for Cunningham.”
“While my little friend Eddie is resting,
the old favorite, Frank Anstey, will do
a few flip-flaps.”
Perhaps it is just as well for Hogan’s
peace of mind that he was on the sick-list
in Sydney when the A.L.P. delegates were
issuing instructions to him in Melbourne.
If he had been there he might have felt
compelled to tell the gentlemen how prepos-
terous their proposals were, particularly the
one for “releasing credits” to the extent of
£20,000,000 for the workless, with £5,000,000
as a first instalment. This was car-
ried by a large majority, as also was a
direction to the State Labor party to legis-
late “immediately” for “taking over pro-
duction, distribution and exchange.” But
the majority slumped to four on a resolu-
tion that if unemployed-relief legislation
“inimical to Labor” were carried the
Hogans should resign. Risking cerebral
haemorrhage, a lot of delegates had in the
meantime done a bit of thinking.
“In response to a request by the Minister
of Works, Mr. Davidson,” Dr. Bradfield has
outlined a great scheme for “the construc-
tion of a concrete motor road from Milson’s
Point to Mona Vale.” with “a high-level
bridge across Middle Harbor” and “a super-
highway from this bridge to French’s Eorest-
road.” “The total cost is estimated at
£2.020,000.” That means four millions at
least. And the Government which employs
Bradfield and keeps Davidson in a sine-
cure is being sued for default and is
piling up a deficit of 9| millions. Is there
no limit to the vanity of civil servants and
the audacity of politicians?
Prime Minister Lyons has made some
general remarks about “lifting the burden
from the back of industry,” and if he can
ak>:> see his way to do something for the
front it won’t be amiss. Australia has five
State land taxes and one Federal land tax,
as well as the usual municipal burdens. There
are a Federal income tax and six State
income taxes, to which State unemployment-
relief faxes have been added, and all are liable
to go up at any moment. The Federal excise
tax has been duplicated by the introduction
of a sales tax, and Lang (who won’t let his
Industrial Commissioner review the boom-
time basic wage of £4 2s. 6d. a week) takes
£2 in the £lOO of wages and salaries for
starving mothers or parching fathers. The.
country has borrowed about £1,200,000,000
for jobs that don’t pay working expenses
and interest, so that they cost a good many
millions more per annum than they can earn,
despite the absurdly high rates charged ; and
the impossibility of borrowing more millions
for useless jobs has become apparent.
Speaking: for his Red boss Garden at an
election meeting in Newtown, Lang boasted
that “the Loan Council would have to give
formal approval to the issuing of bonds to
the people | unnamed! who are loaning the
Government the money for the Eastern
Suburbs railway.” H'e had the, gall to
ask for the “formal approval” after he
defaulted on February 1, but the tempera-
ture was such that his feet froze and he didn’t
put the thing to the vote. According to his
own paper “approximately £8.060,000” was
involved. Commissioner Cleary in his report
for 1930-31 gives “the latest estimate of
cost ’ of the Eastern Suburbs railway as
£2,832,146. Possibly the difference was to
have been spent on a tin-hare course between
the rails.
“S. M. Herald” has been deprived of Gov-
ernment advertisements for criticising Lang,
and other newspapers are to be boycotted if
Lang's noisy friends can manage it. Now
Lamb, K.C., is to get no more briefs from
the Railway Department—he . has been its
counsel for 20 years—because lie, appeared
for the defence in the ridiculous police-court
case against Eric Campbell. It is all very
reminiscent of the Sydney lady who, having
quarrelled with her next-door neighbor,
nulled all the latter’s washing off the line
and shoved it into the copper fire.
A certain Thompson spent the years 1020-
30 in Australia (mostly, it would seem, in
N.S.W.) and has written a book about it.
He saw the Commonwealth at its worst. It
had spent six years in borrowing out of all
reason, going on strike, importing luxuries
and flattering itself about its natural
resources. Any Thompson who stayed here
from 1926 to 1930 saw the vastness of the
demoralisation, and was liable to mistake it
for our ordinary condition. There are
politicians who want to make it our ordinary
condition, and to revive all the old grandiose
lies. It is quite possible that the country
will listen to them, for it is a poor liar who
can’t get a hearing.
If the Chinese overcame the Japs at
Shanghai they would try to overwhelm the
foreign settlements. There are Australians
there, but since the politicians started
economising on the army and navy in prefer-
ence to people who had more votes, the
Commonwealth is really i»l no better posi-
tion to look after Australians abroad than
when South Australia sent the Protector to
Taku.
“People want to know where Mr. Lang
will get all the millions he means to borrow.”
Thus one Green, the “Labor” candidate for
Neutral Bay, 16 months ago. “Well, I'll
tell them. He’ll get those millions in
London. And why? Because New York
is after the business, and London can’t
afford to let New York have it.” New York
could have had it all along, but New York
wouldn’t take it—not even when Lang
“scaled” J. Bull and paid Uncle Samuel
last April. And last week you could get a
100-dollar 5 p.c. N.S.W. bond in New York
for 32 dollars.
“On the day the Disarmament Conference? opened,
hostilities were renewed at Shanghai.”
“Hey, gents., look what you're missing!
There’s a grand fight going on over
here.”
In one way it’s a pity Westralia wasn't
represented at the Melbourne palavers by
Labor-leader Phil Collier instead of amiable,
old Jimmy Mitchell. Collier, a thinker and
a skilful debater, would have taken all the
shine out of Lang. When that person
“scaled” last year, Collier said in the
Westralian Assembly:—
It is not a case of default from sheer necessity,
but from deliberate intent, and a cynical feature of
it is that the ' decision regarding interest due on
April 1 was communicated to the Federal Govern-
ment only a day or two before, with the obvious
intent of embarrassing it.
The same dodge was resorted to at the end
of January. Collier proceeded to say :
I was revolted at the callous cynicism of Mr.
Lang’s reply to the deputation from the unemployed,
in which he suggested that the interest payments
had been withheld in their interests. Actually Mr.
Lang’s action will intensify to an incalculable extent
the troubles which he professes to alleviate. Invest-
ments will be withheld, commerce and business will
shrink, money held in N. S. Wales will be trans-
ferred elsewhere, and the inevitable result will be a
vast increase in unemployment.
Every word of that prediction has come
true.
[For any pars, which require a signature under the
Electoral Law, S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb and Jas.
Edmond, all of 252 George-street, Sydney, hold
themselves responsible.]


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
ONE PACE TO THE REAR.
GLADYS : “How d’you get on with that girl you admired so much?"
CLARENCE: “Oh, wonderful! Started off as best boy; finished up as best man.”
“Eyes Right”: The Scullin Government
conceived the idea of holding bivouacs in
1931-32 instead of the usual camps for
trainees. I’m not sure that the Minister
knew what a bivouac was, but evidently he
thought it quite innocuous compared with
the martial “Camp of Continuous Training.”
The bivouacs held —in various places—
and some expenses were incurred. An
engineer officer rendered his claim for attend-
ance at a bivouac, and here is the way the
Commoimealth Sub-Treasury, Melbourne,
addressed his cheque :
Captain Blank, Engineers’ Department, Bivouac.
And they were quite surprised when it was
returned unclaimed!
* * *
“Howler”: A woman teacher warned her
class not to mention the burning of the
cakes if the inspector told them to write
about King Alfred. The teacher regarded
the cake episode as too ha’ckneyed. The
inspector did choose that theme : I am still
wondering what he thought of one effort
submitted to him. It ran: “King Alfred
once stayed a night at a farmhouse. The
farmer’s wife was there, but what hap-
pened I am not allowed to say.”
# =!: * •••:
“Larry”: Some recent paragraphs about
John Lee, the Babbacombe (Devon) mur-
derer whom they couldn’t hang in ISS4.
recall the fact that when the news of the
horrible bungle was printed, Queen Victoria
wrote to the Home Secretary of the period
giving it as her opinion that the murderer’s
life would have to be spared after the agonies
he must have suffered. She received in reply
an assurance that the “poor wretch’s” sen-
tence would be commuted to imprisonment
for life. But the Queen went further than
that. She insisted that such a thing must
not happen again—in the royal letters there
is always a liberal use of underlined words.
One method of obviating it, she suggested,
would be to substitute iron scaffolds for
wooden ones, Lee’s escape having been attri-
buted to the swelling of some of the execu-
tion paraphernalia through rain. It is pro-
bably the only instance on record of a
modern Sovereign evincing an interest in
such grisly matters. It is not related
that her specific was ever seriously con-
sidered. but certainly such a thing hasn’t
happened again, not in England anyhow.
“Strict V e g.” : Mel-
bourne’s sudden changes of
weather, mentioned in a
recent Bulletin, can be
very trying. A Toorak
matron had the biggest win
of her life at the races re-
cently. She came home with
12 £5 notes in her bag. After
changing in the bedroom,
she took the £6O out of the
bag. and for security thrust
it into her bosom, a capa-
cious cue as befits a mother
of nine. Then she went
into the sitting-room, where
her solicitous hubby, hav-
ing noticed that the tem-
perature had dropped, had
thoughtfully lighted a
generous fire. She picked
up her youngest hopeful
and a French novel simul-
‘taneously. It must have
been an absorbing tale be-
cause it was not till she
had reached the end of a
chapter that a smell of
burning penetrated from
her unconscious to her con-
scious mind. She looked up
to find a charred heap
of paper in the fire* The
baby had thrust its dimpled fist into her
hiding-place and flung her winnings into the
blaze.
“li’ickok” : The description ‘.‘armed to the
teeth” would certainly apply to a man
recently arrested by Melbourne detectives for
alleged participation in a crime of violence.
“Under his left arm,” the Court was toll,
“was a Mauser pistol fully loaded, under his
right a Browning pistol fully loaded, another
loaded automatic was in his trousers pocket,
and a revolver fitted for a silencer to be
attached was found in a pocket of his over-
coat. In a belt round his waist were 42 five
cartridges.” The recent outcry against the
carrying of firearms seems to be amply war-
ranted when human arsenals of this sort are
liable to be encountered by the police in the
execution of their duty. Further repressive
legislation seems to be sadly needed; mean-
time at least one Australian Judge has done
something to discourage the gunman. Cur-
lewis, J., heard an appeal against a
fine of £25 inflicted by a magistrate
on a man convicted of carrying a revol-
ver without a license. The appellant, it
transpired, had only just completed a sen-
tence in Long Bay when the offence was
committed ; he explained that he was “on his
way to a party” and was carrying the lethal
weapon to oblige a lady friend. His Honor
promptly doubled the fine instead of reduc-
ing it, and threw in six months’ impi'ison-
ment to boot.
“The Listening-Insect” : The latest develop-
ment of the radio reign of terror is the wire-
less set for cars. The Americans are now
building these into new makes in quite a low-
price grade. Special anti-vibration devices
make them capable of giving a party the base-
ball scores, or the latest Rotarian speech
on the need for disarmament, while speeding
along at 60 m.p.h. The sets, are operated
from the electrical system of the car, and
are screened from interference from the igni-
tion by an elaborate device. The next move
will be a built-in television set enabling
motorists to plug into their favorite picture
theatre as they go along.
* * =t= *
“Exon”: A mild symposium in the Sydney
press on the value or otherwise of beer in
the diet of an oarsman followed the recent
statement of a G.P.S. trainer that a little
of it wasn’t a bad thing for a man, though
he wouldn’t recommend it for a college boy.
Various opinions, largely hostile, were ex-
pressed by schoolmasters, but the most amaz-
ing came from a headmaster (himself a
noted Oxford athlete in his day, though not
an oarsman), who said that “university and
college crews in England train on beer, which
in that climate is regarded as a very good
thing.” To speak of crews “training on beer”
OFTEN DONE THAT WAY.
“Do you know, I actually caught John flirting!”
“Nothing unusual, my dear. I was flirting when 1 landed my husband, too."
is an abuse of language. Certainly in my
time (over 40 years ago) college crews were
not only permitted but encouraged to drink
a modicum of beer witli their meals when
in training—l fancy a pint and a half was
the day’s limit, good stingo at that —simply
because it was regarded (and maybe is still)
as the best beverage for its purpose. Those
who didn’t take it generally fell back on
unsweetened lemon drinks, but tea (except
at breakfast) and coffee were barred. To
call this sort of thing training on beer is
silly. The main things that were trained
on were vast quantities of steaks and chops
-—there was no alternative to those. But I
suspect all that is altered nowadays.
“Pawang” : Coming this way is Sir Ronald
Ross, the 75-year-old medico who discovered
the origin of malaria in the anopheles mos-
quito. That was in 1897. Ross’s battle
was not only with a scientific problem that
had gravelled the world for hundreds of
years. He had to fight official intolerance
which found expression in various ways.
Before he had completed his investigations
his chiefs transferred him from one Indian
district to another where there were no
anopheles. The delay enabled two Italian
experimenters,' who had been reading his pro-
gress reports in medical journals, to claim
priority in the discovery, and Ross spent
years re-establishing his copyright. He spent
even longer trying to get health authorities
to apply his simple measures of prevention,
but to-ciay few new enterprises are started in
malarial regions without the anopheles first
being stamped out. Ross is almost as proud
of being a poet as of being the author of the
mosquito theory, but his poetry is as conven-
tional as his science was daring and original.
“Lizard Passage” : It is just 50 years since
a North Queensland woman figured in one
of the most moving passages in the long story
of feminine heroism. She was Mrs. Watson,
wife of a beche-de-mer fisher-
man in the Howick Group out-
side Cooktown. Her husband
was killed by the blacks, but
with her baby and two China-
men she put to sea in the half
of an ordinary square iron
tank, which had been used for
boiling the b§che-de-mer. A
hasty collection of tinned pro-
visions included some milk,
which kept the baby alive until
the tank drifted ashore on an-
other island of the group, as
the pathetic diary kept by the
poor mother showed. But there
was no water, and the little
party was soon dead of thirst.
In Cooktown there is a monu-
ment to Mrs. Watson’s
memory. The pathetic story
provided Douglas Sladen, then
a professor in Australia and
still alive in England, with
material for the most execrable
piece of doggerel verse ever
perpetrated by. a man of
letter®
* * *
“L. 1.8.”: That yarn of the
midnight exchange of compli-
ments between Colonels Mere-
dith and Cox (B. 3/2/’32) re-
minds me. The Ist L. H. Bri-
gade was manoeuvring outside
Heliopolis in a rousing kham-
sin. Harry Chauvel was in
charge of operations and got
lost with his staff. ITe wasn’t
the only one, for as they sat
on their horses wondering
where the deuce all the rest
had gone to. a famous colonel of those days
emerged at full gallop from the murk, followed
by his devoted trumpeter. “Colonel Blank.”
said Chauvel in his driest tones, “where's
your regiment?” “Damned if Oi know,” was
the carefree reply. “Ye’ve none av ye seen
my whishkoy-flask lyin’ about, I’ll go bail?”
“Elgar”: My friend Blivins, of Box Hill
(Vic.), wanted to send his mother-in-law in
Gippsland a copper and stand, and
asked the railway people what the charge
would be. Fourteen shillings, he was told,
from station to station. He mentioned the
matter to his neighbor Stivins, who is well
up in the railway service. Said S.: “That’s
the rate—but look here, I’m going through
Gippsland on my holiday directly, and I’ll
tie it on the back of the ’bus and drop it
at the old lady’s door for five bob.” Blivins
was pleased, and told his other neighbor,
Dunks, how much he had saved by not
patronising the railways. But Dunks, who
is a carrier, viewed the matter differently.
“The blanky screw, and him in the rail-
ways, too! Why, I took two coppers and
stands right up to Ecliuca on my last trip
and only charged them three bob each.
’Struth, no wonder the country’s depressed !”
* * * *
“S.A.S.”: Apropos the origin of sterling
(B. 27/l/’32), the first English standard
coin was not the pound, but the silver penny
of the Saxon kings. These were of different
weights and sizes until 1280, when a law
was passed that the weight of the penny
should be that of 24 grains of wheat (hence
the item in our table of measures, 24 grains
= 1 pennyweight). The pound troy had the
same weight as 5760 grains of wheat; there-
fore 240 sterling pennies were coined from
each pound of silver, which became a pound
sterling. Not until the reign of Henry VII.
were gold pounds made in England, and for
long after that time silver still remained
the standard.
;V S|:
“Buna”: Departure from ferries by any
but the orthodox method is illegal in M.L.
I retain a vivid recollection of once seeing
in Auckland the usual crowd of impatient.-
travellers jump from the boat to the wharf
before the gangways were in place and rush
for the barriers, only to find the gates closed
against them and two stalwart p.c.’s with
notebooks ready for the march past. There
were 78 victims on that occasion, and every
one was fined in the police court. “Short-
cut” (B. 8/2/’32) suggests that similar
THE CAMPAIGN.
“Well, if you refuse me to-day, I shall only return to
the attack later.”
“You mean you will resume the offensive!’
legislation should be enforced in Sydney,
but it seems hardly worth while. It is
sound policy to instruct children on such
points and possibly punish them for breaches
that jeopardise limb or life; but why bother
about adults if they won’t bother about
themselves?
SANCTIMONIOUS BUZZARDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Interviewed on the subject of backless frocks,
Carmel Myers remarked that every innovation that
seemed a little daring was bound to bring a storm,
of protest from sanctimonious buzzards —mostly
females who lacked the ability to wear the new
style.”
There’s always a squeal at a mode that is
fresh,
And when it reveals and releases
An extra allotment of feminine flesh.
The eye to allure and the fancy enmesh,
The hiss of detraction increases.
But it’s seldom mere man these frivolities
vex
And send into petulant passions;
The jabs and the stabs and the digs and the
pecks
Are envious off’rings from those of the sex
Who can’t get away with the fashions,
Heigli-ho!
Whose figures won’t click with the
fashions.
For myself I admit I should diffidence feel
Were I asked to apportion the proper
Amount of her backbone a girl should reveal;
A ghost of a dole or a deuce of a deal,
I candidly care not a copper.
As much as she listeth Miladi may bare
Of her chic anatomical sections,
And I doubt if the male of the species will
care,
Or go splitting the welkin or beating the
air
With dour puritanic objections.
Not much !
’Tisn’t he who will raise the objections.
Ah. well! We have all of us failings to hurt
The moralist rigid, my brothers —■
And sisters as well —and it’s safe to assert
That attention therefrom we are prone to
divert
By mourning the lapses of others.
There are various things that occasion my
ire
And make me fly off in a fuzz hard.
But when it’s a question of woman’s attire
I can dodge (and can’t you?) the impeach-
ment so dire
Of being a sanctified buzzard.
Thank God!
I’m no sanctimonious buzzard.
■N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Chevroford”: Vic. motorists must in
future carry a sticker indelibly affixed to the
left side of the windscreen giving details of
their vehicles. This the police believe will
help to eliminate the motor thief. It may
do this and it may also be instrumental in
increasing the number of smashes, already
A PAWN IN THE GAME.
“And is your husband so generous with all
his relations?”
“No. But there seems to be one uncle he’s
terribly fond of. But d’you know he’s
never once brought him to the house to
show me off.”
exceedingly large. Any object attached to
the windscreen, however small, may obscure
the driver’s vision at an important moment.
Collisions with cars coming out of side
streets have been caused through the spot-
light fastened to the left side. A small
obstruction can cover as large an object as a
cyclist or a pedestrian at a sufficient dis-
tance. Motorists are the worst offenders in
this respect. It is not an uncommon thing
to see a windscreen almost completely
covered with political slogans prior to an
election or with posters prior to a fashion-
able charitable performance, with, perhaps, a
couple of effigies of bathing-girls to keep them
company.
❖ % ❖ ❖
“Quot”: The population of Sydney, in-
clusive of the municipalities which stretch
away to Parramatta, was estimated by the
Government Statistician as 1,261,600 on
Sept. 30 last. Whether there is any legi-
timate cause for satisfaction in the city’s
bloatedness, considering that the total popu-
lation of Australia is a trifle less than 61
millions (1931 figures), may be doubted, but
it gives the N.S.W. capital 18th place
among the cities of the world (running neek-
and-neck with Los Angeles) and third place
(after London and Calcutta) among the
cities of the Empire. Glasgow and Birming-
ham are the only two provincial cities of the
U.K. that have passed the million mark, and
Bombay. Montreal and Melbourne are the
three other overseas ones that share the dis-
tinction.
❖ * *
“Goodnight” : In reply to “Fusee,” who
asks (B. 27/l/’32) whether anyone who
served in the war “ever saw an American
gun,” I may say that during more than
tw r o years’ service with the 4.5 in. Howitzers
in France I worked several. They all had
“8.5. C.” stamped on the breech, the imprint
of the Bethlehem Steel Co., one of the late
Andrew .Carnegie’s concerns.
* * t- *
“Evoe”: Mussolini, wlio, like the late
Theodore Roosevelt, is fond of periodically
exhorting his countrymen to keep their
cradles full, gives it as his opinion that a
nation with a falling birtln-rate is already
senile. It may be so, yet France is emphati-
cally the country that led the way in tin's
direction, and despite all the jeremiads and
the head-shakings over the arresting of
natural increase until population threat-
ened to become stationary or even to recede,
ic has emerged from the tribulations of
recent years better than most, if not any, of
its contemporaries. Still, France perhaps
had its lesson during the war and profited
thereby; during the last year for which
figures are available (1930) births exceeded
deaths by nearly 100,000. The birth-rate for
that year in France was 18 per thousand,
whereas for the second quarter of 1931 in
England it tbuched its lowest on record with
16.5. Certainly the death-rate is consis-
tently lower in England than in France,
which tends to even up things, but maybe
the foi-mer nation has more cause than the
latter to take Mussolini’s advice to heart,
however much it may conflict with some of
the ecclesiastical and judicial dicta of the
past few years.
* * * *
“Court Brief”: The House of Lords deci-
sion against the Civilian War Claimants’
Association (B. 20/l/’32) makes me think
that the law of England is liable to
be less, harsh to alien sufferers from
war than to her own. An English
testator, after reciting in his will that
“victorious and wealthy England” was
well able to provide for her own war
victims, gave his residuary estate to the
German Government for the benefit of sol-
diers disabled in the late war. The bequest
was contested as contrary to public policy,
but the Court of Chancery last year held
that this was a good charitable gift and
perfectly valid. “It seems to me,” said
Maugham, J., “that to provide for enemy
soldiei's disabled in a hostile war is to be
regarded in a true sense more as tending to
maintain peace between the two countries
than as tending to encourage people in
bellicose ideas.”
* * * *
“Mark Over”: It is quite correct to say
that the best of shots sometimes go astray
(B. 27/1./’32) and fail to find their birds,
the failure being due to.inability to gauge
the pace Of the moving target. I take it that
in these days no shot follows the very ancient
method of shooting a guessed distance ahead
of a bird and expecting the poor fowl to “fly
into it,” as the old keeper once said. With
both eyes open the modern shot looks at his
bird, throws up the gun and swings with the
pace. The trouble is that sometimes his
swing may be either too slow or too fast. As
one who has done a lot of duck-shooting in
Australia I have always rated the teal as
the fastest bird in the air. The opinion is
confirmed by some recent figures from Eng-
land, which rank the little duck at 70 m.p.h.,
but, to the surprise of the writer, the golden
plover is bracketed with the teal as a speed-
ster. Can any Bulletin reader who has shot
the golden plover corroborate this speed esti-
mate ?
* . * * *
“ExdDig.”: A host of Diggers got into
touch with, the Chinese Consulate person-
ally or by letter directly thei'e seemed a
chance of a war in eastern Asia where
outside professional assistance might be
welcomed. It was not so
much a.matter of sympathy
with China as the feeling
that, Japan being well
equipped for hostilities.
China is the more likely
customer for soldiers of
fortune. Even without the
depression that has tossed
thousands of ex-soldiers out
of jobs, there would have
been plenty of inquiries. If
China wanted trained men
from outside, or were per-
mitted to enlist them, there would be no lack
of response from thousands weary of the
trammels or enforced inactivity of civilian
life.
* * * #
“Rode”: In a Red Pace (3/2/’32)
review of a recent English book on murder
and murderei's, the writer remarks that
“Constance Kent, who slew a little boy for
no ascertainable reason, is the only one of
those mentioned whose name and ill-fame
are known wherever the English language is
spoken.” I doubt if Constance’? notoriety
is quite so sweeping, and the motive that
LEFT HER ENTIRELY UNPROTECTED.
"Oh, it was a horrid accident! And not a soul there to render first aid!”
"But I thought the ambulance man was on the spot?”
"Yes, but not a powder-puff in the whole outfit!”
led to her killing her infant half-brother was
merely jealousy of her stepmother, as she
admitted in her confession, which was not
made until two years after the crime, and
but for which she would assuredly never
have been convicted. She was sentenced to
death (in 1864), though the verdict nowa-
days would undoubtedly have been “guilty
but insane”; the capital sentence was com-
muted, and she underwent 20 years’ impri-
sonment. Incidentally, Australia owes
PROOF.
"Cultured! Why, she thought ‘Hamlet ’. was a quick-lunch delicacy!”
something to the Kent family ; Savile Kent,
the scientist, who published an informative
book (the first of its kind) on the Barrier
Reef some 40 years ago, was a near rela-
tive. A Wiltshire magistrate named Saun-
dei’s figui’ed largely in the preliminary in-
quiries to discover the murderer, which re-
sulted in such a mix-up that it looked as
if it would always remain an unsolved mys-
tery. His son, H. J. Saunders, was Mayor
of Perth in the ’nineties, a Legislative Coun-
cillor for many years, and for a very brief
space in 1903 a Commonwealth Senator.
ij: ❖ :fJ ❖
“Warepa” : The first anniversary (Feb. 3)
of Napier’s tragic earthquake day and dread-
ful night has come and gone. “Napier Wiped
Out” and “Napier Finished” were some
of the scarehead cautions of the time.
They have been completely falsified. At the
recent general election the number of elec-
tors on the Napier roll exceeded that of
1928. The restoration of shattered build-
ings and businesses is a slower process,
but it is proceeding steadily. Napier’s
£50,000 new post office —which stood the
earthquake but was gutted by fire —will be
reconditioned by April, and a big general
building programme lies ahead. The scarred
and desolate appearance of Hastings-street
is the most poignant reminder of the catas-
trophe.
“Pawang”: There has been another out-
break of assaults on children in Melbourne,
followed by the usual crop of letters to the
dailies demanding flogging for the offenders.
It shows how little the investigations of
psychologists have penetrated to the public
mind. The person'who is moved to commit
these horrible offences is usually both a
sadist and a masochist. As a sadist he gets
the same instinctive pleasure out of his
beastly crime as a more balanced individual
gets out of eating an ice-cream. As a
masochist he. derives the same anticipatory
thrills of delight from reading in the news-
papers that he runs a chance of being physi-
cally tortured. Other unbalanced indivi-
duals read the hysterical demands for
corporal punishment, and, far from being
deterred by them, are quite likely to be
actually encouraged. newspapers play
their part in keeping the minds of these
imbeciles brooding on the only thing that
gives them genuine pleasure. Some years
ago it was my duty, to handle press tele-
grams passing between Maoriland and Aus-
tralia. After Maoriland had dispatched its
daily issue of murders, rapes and baby-
farming cases, the Australian issue would
begin to arrive. When that w T as over the
tide would set in from America and Europe.
The objective study of the phenomenon of
sex perversion and its prevention is never
mentioned in the dailies. It has 'no sales
value.
* * * sk
“Aileron”: Britain’s reply to the giant
German Dornier flying-boat, now being built
by Vickers, promises to be the last word.
Nose and tail are high in the air, while the
enormous belly will be the only portion touch-
ing the w T ater, the engines and machinery
generally being high out of reach of the larg-
est seas. It is made of non-corrosive steel and
will carry 54 passengers, the equipment in-
cluding restaurants, baths and sleeping
berths. The craft is six-engined and has a
minimum landing speed of 72 m.p.h., a pretty
ticklish proposition in view of the huge
size of the ’plane. It has been designed as a
Transatlantic passenger-carrier and promises
to give the Cunard and other crack shipping
companies something to think about.
* * * *
“Mawrot”: A name that was on every-
bndv’s lips during the N.S.W. coal disturbance
of a couple of years ago is likely to disappear
from colliery records, Rothbury, to wit. The
mine has been leased to James Rutley, and
will in future probably be known as Short-
land Main. Like Shortland Colliery, near
Newcastle, the name commemorates that
Lieutenant Shortland who officially dis-
covered “the Coal River” towards the end of
the eighteenth conturv.
* * * *
“March Hare”: Whether the free-and-
easy habit of going hatless will ever make
much progress in Aus-
tralia is doubtful, but
some of the firms which
assist to dress the
nation are, perhaps
naturally, determined ro
do everything in their
power to discourage it.
The other day a com-
mercial traveller, whose
waving locks were bare
to the elements, waited
by appointment on the
manager of a big city
firm. The attendant
whose business it is to
show eallers into the
presence eyed the un-
covered cranium with
cold hostility. “No
use,” he said: “the
manager makes it a
rule never to see any-
one who doesn’t wear a
hat”; and the visitor,
refusing to sacrifice his
principles to the extent
of buying or borrowing
the necessary article,
was ushered out again.
Probably the Prime
Minister or an areh-
bishop or a -bank manager wouldn’t care
twopence if a visitor wore a bat or not.
But then they don’t sell them.
•ffi ❖ %
“Robber Brown” : The other day in a Syd-
ney court Halse Rogers, J., remarked that,
with all the duties superimposed on him during
the vacation, he was in the same position as
the gentleman in the ballad who was “the
cook and the captain bold and the mate of
the Nancy brig.” “And the bos’n tight.”
cut in a learned K.C. smartly. “Quite
so,” returned the Judge, “but if you'
remember it is spelt t-i-t-e!” W. S. Gilbert,
of course, used “tight” in the sense of
“handy” or “trim,” but he didn’t mis-spell
it. Possibly ’Sonah was thinking of
Dickens’s “Titc Barnacle.”
QUID PRO QUO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“English sovereigns, £1 13s. 9d., £1 13s. 10d.,
£1 14s.” —Daily paper advts.
How in the blazes was a chap to know
To giddy yalues such as these you’d lob.
Who held you lightly, in the long ago,
The mere equivalent of twenty bob?
Ah! If I’d had the nous within my nob
To snare and prison more of you for mine,
I mightn’t now be looking for a job.
“Sovereigns to buy at thirty-three and
nine.”
Thci’e is a parable (see Luke xix)
About a servant who was soundly chid
Because he kept a pound that should have
been
Interest earning, in a napkin hid.
But you, my valiant (and vanished) quid.
The longer you remain from haunts of men
Remote, in storage cold, the more they bid.
“Sover< 'gns to buy at thirty-three and ten.”
I’ve seen you shovelled out like peas, I trow;
Scattered you cheerfully in ways diverse,
Swapped you for paper currency, and now
I’ve nothing to recall you but the purse
In which I’ve had no chance to stow you
(worse
Luck!) since the war erased you from the
scene.
Wherefore I scan the item with a curse:
“Sovereigns in brisk demand at one-
fourteen.”
By quid pro quo, it’s understood, is meant
Something for something, an equivalent.
And how the one has soared, the other slid,
Judge from the quo that’s quoted for the
quid.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


The Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
(eHy
ItlllMaitMllßiiiMNMmMlllluaMtHHmNlUlMlllllUMttll
Bulletin Buildings
252 Georqe Street,
s v D n el v
kR2
J
s[e>
The Macleod Gallery will be opened
during Bridge Celebration Week , and
will be one of its big attractions.
The Gallery, which is on the sixth floor of the new Bulletin Buildings, is 150 feet long, with magnificent natural lighting, and is the
largest private gallery in Australia.
Artists and collectors who have works for sale are invited to communicate with the Director, Mr. G. V. F. Mann, for 25 years
Director of the National Art Gallery of N. S. Wales.
Conditions and other particulars from the Director, Macleod Gallery, Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Rear-Admiral R. C. Dalglish, who succeeds
Commodore Holbrook in command of the
Australian Fleet, is a Dubbo (N.S.v\ : ,
native who left Australia as a lad to join
the Royal Navy. He was a lieut.-commander
in 1914, gained an immediate step in rank
and served in the battleship Canada for three
years, his experiences including the Battle
of Jutland. Since then he has held many
appointments, including the command of the
battleship Barham and the training-ship
Gauges; he became a rear-admiral in April
last.
Lin Sen, whose withered hand is endea-
voring to steer the Chinese ship of State
through the troublous seas of the present
strife, visited Australia last year. He was
then president of the Legislative Yuan. In
Melbourne adoring Chinese citizens sat at
his feet at one of the leading hotels and
listened to the words which fell from las
lips—they were principally diplomatic
platitudes. The acting-president of dis-
united China was born at Foochow in 1864,
and educated in California, where he lived
for many years. The revolution of 1911
brought, him back to .China, where has
since shared the vicissitudes of the Kuomin-
tang.
Postmaster-General Fenton, the oldest
member of the Lyons Cabinet, had his 68th
birthday this month.
The Barton (N.S.W.) Federal electorate,
created in 1922, has already had four
members. The first, Laborite Fred McDonald,
a local schoolteacher, lost it to T. J. Ley
after sitting for three years. McDonald
mysteriously vanished after his defeat and
has not been sighted since. Ley took the
count from another Labor schoolteacher, J.
T. Tully, who won in 1928 by over 7000
votes and more than trebled his lead in
1929. The recent fight in Barton was made
exciting by the intrusion of Lang-planner
Eldridge, who had fled from Martin. But
Albert Lane, who carried the U.A.P. banner,
ALBERT LANE, M.H.R.
had a majority of over 4000 votes after the
preferences had been transferred. A native
of Windsor (N.S.W.), the new member
began as a draper’s assistant and is now
a Sydney business manager. He is a staunch
Methodist, and in Balmain, where he lived
for 38 years, he held almost all the offices
open to a layman. He is also a keen temper-
ance worker, and has done a lot in the cause
of technical education.
General Higgins, who has just started
on a world tour of the various Salvationist
fronts which will include the Australian
one, is a Somersetshire man of a trifle over
threescore and ten. He joined the Army
a year or two after William Booth founded
it, worked his way up to be chief of staff,
and when the Booth dynasty came to an
abrupt end with the deposition of Bramwell
there was never much doubt who would be
his successor. Higgins spent ten years in
the U.S.A. earlier in his career, but this will
be his first visit to Australia.
W. S. Watt, the new Commonwealth
Meteorologist, began his reign by giving Vic-
toria the longest spell of dry weather for
76 years. His
predictions for
nearly two
months of a
fine day and a
pleasant south-
erly breeze in
the afternoon
were so auto-
matically cor-
rect that cri-
ti c s suspect
the god of the
weather of con-
sulting wi t h
the meteorolo-
gist as to his
daily course.
Watt has been
taking advant-
ag e o f a
machine going
up daily from
Point Cook
(Vic.) and
bringing back
data cff the
condlt ions
10,000 feet
up; this, he
says, has.
proved invalu-
able. Inciden-
tally, the pilot
entrusted with
the job has on
occasion pass-
e d from a
W. S. WATT, new Com-
monwealth Meteorologist.
temperature of
105 to a climate that in a straight lute
on the earth’s surface he couldn’t have
reached without going several thousand miles
south.
Dr. A. C. V. Melbourne, Lecturer in
Physics at Queensland University, has been
sent to China as a trade ambassador to look
into the chances there for Queensland pro-
ducts. fie has had a busy life. Adelaide-
born-and-trained, he took an Arts degree to
Brisbane with him in 1913. On Gallipoli he
acquired a severe wound and the rank of
captain. And lately he has had two years
in England on research work into his other
pet subject, Australia’s .constitutional his-
tory ; and this earned him the rare Ph.D.
degree of Cambridge.
John Earle, dead at 66, began as a black-
smith and a mineworker, and rose to be
the Speck’s first Labor Premier. He had
two terms, a week in 1909 and two years
in 1914-16. On the second occasion a con-
stitutional point was cleared up, for Ellison
Macartney, the then Governor, commissioned
Earle to form a Ministry on condition that
he should go to the country immediately
afterwards. Earle, when he was safe in
the saddle, demurred. The Colonial Office,
being appealed to, held that the Governor
had no right to impose such a condition, and
gave him a mild rap over the knuckles for
exceeding his powers. Earle left the Labor
party over the conscription issue in 1916,
and left State politics for Federal a year
later, remaining a Senator until 1922, when
he was defeated. He and Senator Ogden,
his right-hand man in two State Ministries,
died within a day or two of one another.
Prime Minister Lyons had his first taste of
office in Earle’s second Cabinet.
Edward Blunden. passed out at 85. started
his career as an officer in a British cavalry
regiment; he left the army to settle in
Maoriland, but soon quitted the land for the
law. Crossing to Sydney, he practised for
years as a solicitor before becoming a bar-
rister. He came of a well-known Irish
family, being the younger son of a baronet.
Sir jbhn Blunden, of Castle Blunden, Kil-
kenny. and he was a cousin of the present
Master of the Rolls, Baron H'anworth.
On the 13th of February, 1832, the King’s
School, Parramatta, opened its doors, and
from a small beginning of six boarders and
six day-boys its present position has been
reached. The boarders were Andrew
McDougall, Edwin Suttor, George Rouse,
Joseph Thompson, James Walker and Charles
Lockyer; the day-boys consisted of two Orrs,
two Oakses, John Watsford and George
Fairfowl. Maearthur. The last-named, a
nephew of John Maearthur. is said to have
been the first boy enrolled, and 37 years
afterwards he became one of the school’s
greatest headmasters (1869-S6). Since the
Rev. Robert Forrest began his work the school
has been ruled by a long line of able men,
the most outstanding of whom, besides Mac-
artliur, have been Armitage. Wool Is, Harris,
Waddy and the present chief, the Rev. E.
M. Baker —possibly the greatest of them ali.
The high standard of discipline set up in
the beginning has never been slackened; to
have been a boy at the King’s School ensures,
at least, that a man has had knocked into
him early the first rules of good citizenship.
One old boy still survives who can remember
the first headmaster —Mr. F. C, Cox, of
Carlingford, who is in his 94th year. Major-
General C. F. Cox (“Fighting Charlie,” a
Senator since 1919) is his son.
Italo Benvenuti, who has joined the choir
invisible at 72, helped to found the Bris-
bane Musical Union, and was one of the
pioneers of the Brisbane Liedertafel. Born
in London, he came with his Italian parents
to Queensland in 1871. Many oversea sing-
ers requisitioned his services as a flautist,
among them Dolores.
P. B. (“Peter”) Macgregor, who has been
appointed an acting-Judge of the Queensland
Supreme Court while R. J. Douglas has a
spell, is a well-liked leader of the Bar, and
has acted in a judicial capacity on several
occasions. He sat in the State Parliament
as member for Merthyr for a period. Mary
Macgregor, the actress, is a daughter.
Vie. Premier Hogan’s colleagues want him
to take the long ocean voyage to Britain.
It is suggested that he could combine busi-
ness with the main object of the trip by
reorganising the Agency-General; but £lOOO
would be needed to finance the tour. Bent,
Murray, Watt and Lawson had jaunts
abroad at the expense of the public during
their Premierships, but the State’s cashbox
was fairly full then.
The grave has claimed Edward a’Beckett,
artist, of Brighton (Vic.), son of the first
registrar of the Anglican diocese of Mel-
bourne and brother of the late Justice
a’Beckett. Edward a’B. was the first stu-
dent enrolled at Melbourne (Anglican)
Grammar School when it was established.
He gained some status as a portrait-painter,
his subjects including the first three head-
masters of the Grammar School and William
Stawell, C.J. Twice a week the kindly old
man, who was in his 88tli year, used to
read to the blind. He was returning home
from one of these visits when a motor-car
gave him the shock which caused his death.
Just answered the last call, Ernest Price,
one of Dunedin’s mercantile captains. A
N.S.W. native, he joined the Bank of Aus-
tralasia, and opened that institution’s first
branch at Coolgardie (\Jt.A.). Thence he
gravitated to Kalgoorlie, and became secre-
tary of Hannan’s Brown Hill G. M.. Co.
He returned to M.L. in 1901.
Recently-knighted William Goodman, chief
engineer and general manager of the Adel-
aide Municipal Tramway Trust, came from
England—he had been trained by Poole and
White —to help lay the tramways in Sydney.
Afterwards he was in Maoriland. where he
worked on the electric lighting of Auckland
and advised the Dominion Government on
various electrical and power schemes.
Twenty-five years ago he received a call to
W. G. T. GOLDMAN, who rum Adelaide’s
trams.
Adelaide to change the local tram system
from horse to current, and he stayed in
charge and has been there ever since. The
system is a credit to him- and the city it
serves. The rest of Australasia thinks so
much of his work that he is often borrowed
by otner authorities to help them solve their
problems. He will be 60 on March 14.
Senator James Ogden (Tas.), who died
last week at 64, had been 26 years in the
Parliamentary fighting-line, and for over 2D
years of that period had been a valued con-
tributor to The Bulletin. Zeehan sent
him to the Assembly as a Labor member m
Senator OGDEN, who died last week.
1906, and office soon came his way. He was
Treasurer in the first Earle. Ministry (1909),
and Chief Secretary in the second one
(1914-16). In 1922. he was elected to the
Senate; he parted company with his Labor
colleagues on matters respecting the Speck’s
welfare before his first term was over and
was re-elected as a Nationalist. Geelong
was his birthplace.
Rev. J. Hunter Goble, of the Baptist
Church, Footscray, a former president of the
Baptist Union, is dead, and has been widely
mourned. Beginning as a student preacher
at Footscray 36 years ago he got on with
all sorts and conditions of people. Practically
all the sporting sections issued invitations to
their members to attend the funeral, and the
best part of two columns of the morning
papers’ front pages was occupied with these
and similar ads. He was 67. His only son
is the Baptist minister at Williamstown
(Vic.).
H. M. Dauncey, for 40 years a member
of the London Missionary Society in British
New Guinea and Papua, is reported dead
in England; he was a man well liked by all
castes and creeds.. Of his many experiences
he used to tell of one which shook him sorely.
This was the murder at Mekeo, in the Gulf
of Papua, of the Assistant R.M. of the dis-
trict, Giulianetti, by one of his native police.
Dauncey was sleeping in the house when
the policeman sneaked in at night and shot
the A.R.M. through the mosquito-net. Not
long afterwards writer saw the rifle with
which the deed was done. The man who
had it —he belonged to Monckton’s police
,• —seemed to attach considerable importance
to its possession, but it was eventually
exchanged for another of less invidious repute.
Eugene Chen, the Chinese ex-Minister for
Foreign Affairs, who told a newspaper man
in Shanghai that Japan’s recent action is p.
first step to the invasion of Australia, is a
British subject and was born in Trinidad.
He emerged from the underworld of revolu-
tion in 1926, when Borodin and his' fellow-
Russians seized the Chinese administration
at Canton and helped the Nationalists in
their amazing push to Peking. As Foreign
Minister at ' Hankow: Chen was the. eloquent
spokesman for the Bolsheviks in their attacks
on the Western Powers when they captured
a British steamer and killed an Australian
naval officer who attempted to recover the
ship. Later he was instrumental in their
seizure of the British concession at Hankow
and of other international settlements which
still remain in Chinese hands. H'e met his
Waterloo when the attempt to seize Shanghai
was foiled by the arrival of 20,000 British
troops. After that affair the Nationalists
turned on . their Russian friends and Chen
disappeared w T ith Borodin in smoke.
[For any pars, which require a signature under the
Electoral Law, S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb and Jas.
Edmond, all of 252 George-street, Sydney, hold
themselves responsible.]


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Marcus Clark (Victoria), Ltd.
t Dividends Towards
Pref. Re-
June, Profits. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 5,052 5,000 Nil 52 10,511
Mav
1926.. 3,991 3,667 Nil 324 10,187
Added preliminary exes., £9647 .. 19,834
£
1927.. 41,009 16,852 8 p.c. = 22,704 1453 18,381
1928.. 24,884 13,600 4 „ ~10,200 1084 17,297
Premiums on shares, £1750 . . 15,547
1929.. 19,631 14,606 Nil 5025 10,522
Loss.
1930.. 6,032 7,600* Nil 24.154
1931.. 8,716 Nil Nil 32,870
*4 p.c.
The drift has been much more serious than
those figures suggest, since they do not dis-
close the state of affairs in the subsidiaries.
Transformed from a motor agency into a
holding concern in 1926, the co. has since
added £365,000 to capital, raising it to
£465,000 in 190,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and
320,000 crds. —the latter are held mostly by
Marcus Clark, Sydney. At June 30 last the
lot, together with £116,742 coming to
creditors, was invested £38,871 in book
debts, etc. (the old hire-purchase accounts
were retained for collection), and £510,000
in shares in other cos. The holdings com-
prise all the £400,000 of capital in Craig,
Williamson (Melbourne) and the £lO5 On i
of ords. and £5OOO of the prefs. in Miller
Anderson (Adelaide).
The holding co.’s loss of £8716 last year
was in respect of its old book debts. The
disappointing trading experiences of the sub-
sidiaries has been as fellows: —
1927. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Craig’s .. .. £60,834 £21,315 £1,708 £53,464*
Miller Anderson,. —-- 10,339 7,116 3,296*
*Loss.
Combining the figures of all sections of the
business the net loss for the year was £65,476
compared with a profit of £2792 in 1930.
That is leaving out of the reckoning a- tax
bill for £3177, shown as a contingent lia-
bility against -which Craig’s has appealed.
When taken over Craig’s business was
netting £68,335 p.a.; the aggregate net re-
sult of the last five years’ operations is a
profit of £60,470. The co. is staggering
under a huge mortgage debt of £533,578,
held by the vendor over the property, which
figures at £557,202. Payment of £lOO,OOO
fell due in May, but was extended, though
for what term is not mentioned. In addition
there was an overdraft, £123,146 (up £48,352
during the year), thus raising the interest-
bearing debt to £656,724 at July 31. It
looks as though the co. will have a hard
struggle to meet its interest commitments
alone, notwithstanding the statutory cut in
mortgage and the reduction in overdraft
rates.
Miller Anderson’s loss of £3296 was for
the 12 months to Jan. 31, 1931, and the co.
has paid no divs. since. Here, too, a mort-
gage of £98,333 was making its weight felt,
after which there is £BO,OOO of 8 p.c. prefs.
waiting to be fed.
The state of the finances of the parent and
its two subsidiaries as their last balance-
sheets disclose it is as follows; —
Marcus
Clark Craig, Miller
(Vic:), Williamson, Anderson,
Aug. 31, July 31. Jan., 31,
1931. 1931. 1931.
Paid capital ..£465,000 £400,000 £185,000
Mortgages .. .. 533,577 98.334
Sundry creditors . . 116,742 144,644 13,911
Property, plant, etc. 280 632,407 171,458
Shares other cos. 510,000 -
Stocks . . . , 158.906 71,156
Book debts, etc. . . 38,591 62,980 41,955
Compared with a year ago the parent’s
excess of liabilities over liquids was £8509
heavier at £78,151; Craig’s liabilities ex-
ceeded its more or less liquids by £426,335,
a growth of £57,058; Miller Anderson’s more
or less liquid surplus (£866) slipped £8214.
Combining the figures there was £631,911
coming to mortgagees, £222,046 to the bank
and £53,249 to sundry creditors; total,
£907.206. This exceeded more or less liquids
(£403,588) by £503,618, the net growth
over the 12 months being £74,130. To what
extent, if any, inter-company indebtedness
figures in the accounts is not visible from
the published figures.
Allowing for Miller Anderson’s prefs., the
capital in Marcus Clark (Vic.) is represented
by net tangibles with a book value of
£217.681. Without taking £45.000 of un-
called capital into account, the net tan-
gible cover for the prefs. was thus 235. 6d„
and for the ords., 2s. Id. A readjustment
of capital is inevitable. The market prices
the prefs. around 65., and speculates in the
ords. around Is. 2d.
Hume Steel, Ltd.
Net Towards
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 35 Nil 35 251.700
Added to intangibles. £2OBO .. 253,780
1925.. 795 Nil 795 252,985
Added to intangibles, £1139 .. 254,124
Pref.
10 p.c. Ord.
1926.. 8,870 5201 Nil 3,669 250,455
Added to intangibles. £791 .. 251,246
1927.. 19,183 5567 Nil 13,616 237,630
Part foreign rights sold, patents
reduced, £152,824 .. .. 84.806
1928.. 21,348 5567 Nil 15,781 69,025
Reserved for depreciation,
etc.. £19,400 88,425
1929.. 23,362 5567 Nil 17,795 70,630
1930.. 15,281 5567 Nil 9,714 60.916
1931.. 977 Nil Nil 977 59,939
This is a subsidiary of the Hume Pipe Co.,
and supplies the steel fabrication used in
manufacturing the parent’s wares; but so far
it has not handed on anything in the way of
dividend. Until the past term the prefs.,
held by the public, received their 10 p.c.
comfortably each year. But the outlook has
now completely changed. Whatever success
attended the Hume enterprises in Australia
was largely influenced by the lavish Govern-
ment borrowing and outlay on public works
that was a feature of the decadq to 1930;
and now that phase has passed.
After valuing stock and work in hand at
£26,757 less than a year ago, net profit
slumped £14,304 last year; that was after
contingency reserve had been drawn on
for £8062. For the first time the prefs.
went hungry; including their arrears, the
deficit confronting the ords., all of which
wmre issued fully paid to the parent for
patent rights in 1923, was visibly £65,506.
The co. has not been lacking in energy or
enterprise. In 1928 it sold its foreign patents
to the Steel Pipe and Lining Co. for £500,000
in fully-paid ords., and took up 20,000 8 p.c.
cum. prefs. for cash. All this scrip the
parent took into its own books at £154,528,
reducing the patents item (now £100.900) by
£152,824. The pup has since sold rights for
S’Africa and for U.S.A. territory west of the
Missisippi, and last year entered into agree-
ments with the Dominion Bridge Co. of
Montreal (fabricators of bridge and struc-
tural steel) and the Indian Hume Pipe Co.,
a distant relative operating in Bombay. “Im-
portant contracts” have been secured in each
country, and operations are to be extended to
China. But the depression is world-wide,
and the ultimate benefit to Hume Steel
shareholders from these enterprises remains
in doubt.
So far as the parent is concerned, its first
important job was on behalf of the S. Aus.
Government. That helped to put the co. on
its feet, and factories were set up at Adel-
aide, Perth, Singapore, Sydney, Brisbane and
Wellington-(M.L.) . Surplus earnings nearly
all went into plant, which mounted to
£92,152 in the books at 1930. Last year this
item showed a drop of £12,673, possibly due
to the shipment of a plant to India on behalf
of the subsidiary :
1925. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. , £302,010 £305,670 £305,670 £305,670
Liabilities .. 17,343 80,670 102,062 63,284
Freehold and
leasehold .. 3,975 16,688 18,785 14,187
Plant .. .. 17,680 82.246 92,152 79,479
Stocks . . . . 7,758 56,526 24,602 26,403
Contracts ■..» 23,960 17,950 32,098 8,540
Book debts . . 5,433 15,494 36,460 33,996
Cash and de-
posits . . 7,563 9,555 7,089 4,933
Shares in other
cos. . . 166,528 174,528 174,528
The liquid position has improved slightly.
The. debt, which is £5588 less than total
liquids, is mainly a family matter —the total
(£68,284) includes £54.251 advanced from
the Hume Pipe Co. Likewise the co.'s own
debtors include £20,779 of joint accounts,
etc.
The net tangible position depends on the
figures of the subsidiaries. All shares rank
equally for capital. Last quote for the A
prefs. was 165., buyers.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney)
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1919.. 14,883 124 p.c. = 7,743 1465 5675 19,754
1920.. 21,299 274 „ „ 19,071 3735 18,247
1921.. 8,147 10 „ „ 6,955 4110 15.329
1922.. 14,394 17 „ „ 11,840 2962 14,921
Capital returned (ss. per share), £17,412
1923.. 18,607 21$ p.c.=12,554 2096 3957 18,878
1924.. 16.296 20 „ „ 10,474 5834 18,866
1925.. 14,307 265,, „ 13,985 3070 16,118
1926.. 19,195 285,, ~ 14,859 2994 1342 17,460
1927.. 18,141 265„. „ 13,995 6750 14,856
1928.. 16,362 26g„ „ 14,000 4080 13.138
1929.. 12,569 20 „ „ 10,500 2303 12,904
1930.. 5,257 10 „ „ 5,250 3055 9,856
Loss.
1931.. 1,618 Nil 1958 6,280
Never since the land was taken from the
blacks has there been such chaos in the
N. S. Wales real-estate business, and -never,
certainly, has property been so onerous. The
Ejectment Postponement and Rent Reduction
Acts and amendments to the Landlords and
Tenants Act have all helped to tie the hands
of the landowner and reduce his income.
On top of that the new Federal property tax
(a flat rate of 10 p.c.) has been levied for
most of the term; thus all rents have been
cut by at least 32£ p.c.. while the Valuer-
General has granted little relief from rates
under his new assessments.
It is little wonder, therefore, that property
became a drug in the market; city turnover
has been practically confined to a few forced
sales. The precipitous drop from the boom
years shows up in this table: —
ProPEitTY Sales.
Citv. Suburbs.
1920 .. .. £3.000,000 £4,375,000
1922 . . . . 3,000.000 3,500,000
1924 .. .. 2,100,000 3,500,000
1926 .. .. 7,000.000 3,750,000
1927 .. .. 5.133,800 4,397,000
1928 .. .. 2.750,000 4,816,024
1929 . . . . 2.654,431 3,765,116
1930 . . . . 698,575 1,339,977
1931 . . . . 364,420 484,528
The year's largest individual city sales were
for £90,000 and £79,000 respectively. Rich-
ardson and Wrench got its fair share of the
business offering, but rents from the co.’s own
premises fell away. Thus from one cause
and another gross earnings dropped £8042:
1920 .. £36.690 I 1927 .. £41,225
1922 . . 31,425 | 1928 . . 40,488
1923 . . 36,250 1929 . . 36,854
1924 .. 33,567 | 1930 .. 28,218
1925 .. 38,565 | 1931 .. 20.176
1926 . . 42,795 |
Exes. (£21,794) were cut only £1167; thus
the co. showed a balance of £l6lB on the
wrong side. The loss was the first in the
co.’s history (it paid divs. right through the
crisis of ’93), and shareholders had the new
experience of going hungry. In 1930 results
were equal to 10 p.c. on capital, compared
with 23.9, 31.2, 34.6 and 36.6 back to 1926.
In addition to the loss disclosed, £1958 dis-
appeared from contingency reserve; it is
shown as written off in the table.
Balance-sheet figures disclose the usual
strong financial position :
1920. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Capital .. £69,350 £52,600 £52,500 £52,500
Liabilities .. 27,823 20,064 7,316 3,973
Advances .. 73,129 41,880 43,986 45,015
Rook debts .. 3,684 7,013 7,163 2,580
Cash, etc. . . 40,594 38,531 18,872 13,537
Odds and ends 4,948 4,019 2,277 1,620
Thus practically all the assets are liquid;
that is. if advances on properties can be
called liquid while the moratorium operates.
Earnings in the future will depend, as
they have depended in the past, on the tone
of the property market. Goodwill, the chief
asset in cos. like these, is not taken into
account in the books. The market prices
the 15s. shares at par; the net tangibles
amount to 16s. lOd.
N.Z. Refrigerating Co., Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 48,727 8 p.c.= 48,000 727 114,789
1922.. 48,484 61 „ „ 37,500 10,984 125,773
1923.. 49,103 61 „ ~ 37,500 11,603 137,376
1924.. 59,163 61 „ „ 37,500 21,663 159,039
1925.. 38,329 61 „ ~ 37,500 829 159,868
Goodwill item, £36,310 . . . . . • 123,558
Written off goodwill, £12,103 .. .. 135,661
Loss.
1926.. 7,412 Nil 128,249
Written off goodwill, £12,103 .. 140,352
Profit.
1927.. 48,486 7$ p.c. = 47,723 763 141,115
Written off goodwill, £12,104 . . 153,219
1928.. 33,042 5 p.c;- 31,816 1,226 154,445
Inner reserves disclosed, £lOO,OOO. . 254,445
Loss.
1929.; 105,342 Nil 149,103
Allowance to debtor co., £32,500 . . 116,603
1930.. 104,435 Nil 12,168
Profit.
1931.. 64,402 5 p.c. = 31,815 32,587 44,755
The freezing industry in Maoriland is over-
capitalised, and competition for fat lambs in
the crowded Canterbury markets is fierce.
At Smithfield (Eng.), where the co. sells its
product, its prices must compare favorably
with those of Argentine exporters; thus profit
margins are cut to the bone, and the smallest
fluctuations in lamb and mutton quotations
are liable to play havoc with earnings.
Hence the co.’s heavy losses following the
sharp and sustained drop of prices for all
staples in ’29 and ’3O. But the board, recog-
nising that the unsound features of the trade
were likely to cause trouble sooner or later,
had strengthened inner reserves; so it was
able to bring £lOO,OOO from hiding, rub out
the trading losses, strike £32,500 off the
debentures on the Pukeuri Farmers’ Freez-
ing. Works, and begin the last term with a
visible £12,168 to spare.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, which include the trough of
the depression, a lucky combination of cir-
cumstances enabled the co. to exhibit its
best profit for over a decade. Smithfield
prices touched their lowest level for
mutton) for 25 years. Still, fluctuations
favored consignors; heavy killings early in
the term, due to a dry spell and growers’
need of cash, arrived overseas when the
market was at its top for lamb), and
a 10 p.c. wage cut and the exchange pre-
mium helped too. It is probable, also, that
stocks were conservatively valued w T hen the
accounts closed in 1930. Thus, after pay-
ing all exes, and providing for repairs, re-
newals, taxation, and sundry contingencies,
enough remained to show 10.1 p.c. on
£636,310 of capital, and a 5 p.c. div. was
paid. Capital, by the way, was doubled in
1919 by a transfer from reserves accumu-
lated during the war years; which explains
the moderate run of divs. since, and why the
scrip has been at a discount in the market
for over a decade.
The next table show’s the skeleton of the
business as balance-sheet figures reveal it: —
• 1925. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £636,310 £636,310 £636,310 £636,310
Liabilities ~ 699,379 752,702 951,954 634,148
Fixed assets. . 755,545 764,144 780,417 768,516
Other assets.. 726,201 773,972 820,015 578,512
Thus the year’s apparent improvement in the
financial position was £76,303, leaving liabili-
ties, which include something for contingen-
cies, £55,636 in excess of liquids at Oct. 33.
The co.’s five works are said to be main-
tained in good order out of revenue, and
£12,001 more was written off than was spent
on fixed assets during the term.
How the current year is likely to pan out
it is difficult to say.‘ The exchange position
gives Argentine shippers an advantage, and
over-capacity of the industry in Maoriland
tends to keep operating costs higher than
they ought to be. The market prices the
fully-paid pound shares at 10s. lid, as
against 6s. a year ago. The return at the
higher figures is 9.1 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis. The visible backing is 21s. sd. in net
tangibles, all in plant, etc., worth what it
can earn.
Farmers and Settlers’ Co-op. Insurance Co.
Income. Losses. Exes. Profit. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
July, 7087
1926* 87,041 86,173 47,184 3684 3403
1927 . . 63,419 32,739 30,575 105 329 S
Reserves.
1928 . . 61,406 25,601 32,321 3484 186
1929 . . 68,886 29,978 34',596 4312 4498
1930 . . 62,020 25,828 33,259 2933 7431
Loss.
1931 .. 51,071 23,798 29,849 2577 4854
*lB months.
The collapse of prices—crop insurance is
the backbone of the business —caused the
evaporation of much insurance value, while
the spread of unemployment affected work-
ers’ compensation business. Thus the co.’s
harvest of gross premiums (£75,142) w T as
£14,568 lighter last year; but less was
reinsured, leaving the slip in net premiums
(£48,802) at £11.134. Neither claims nor
exes, could be got back in proportion. Of
each £lOO of net premiums claims took
£6l 10s., or £6 10s. more than for the pre-
vious year, while exes, made off with £4B
145., or an extra £5 12s.—they are much
too high considering the semi-co-operative
nature of the business. Underwriting thus
resulted in a loss of £4845 as against a
surplus of £849 in 1930. Interest, etc.,
brought in £2268, so the net loss was £2577
compared with profits of 5.3 p.c. and 8 p.c.
on capital in 1930 and 3929 respectively.
Paid capital is in 146,336 shares of 10s,
each called to 7s. 6d., and the funds are in
this form;—
1926. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid' capital .. £54,844 £54,990 £55,043 £55,110
Sundry creditors.. 4,905 4,062 3,255 4,019
Equipment, leases,
etc 2,905 6,741 5,985 5,477
Sundry debtors . . 24,164 16,734 16,322 12,704
Cash, investments,
etc 29,277 39,959 43,365 45,302
Shares in other cos. 500 500 500
Thus, at the close of last accounts, policy-
holders could see not tangibles with a book
value of £59,964, equal to 180 p.c. of the
year’s net premiums, and that is a bit more
than is usually looked for. But until a
larger business ean be handled at less cost,
and reserves accumulated, there is not likely
to be much in it for shareholders. The net
tangible backing is Bs. 2d. per share.
No divs. have been paid for the last nine
years; and that defeats the object of the
scheme. It was hoped to build up strong
jConnection through shareholder clients, and
to pay good divs., which would, in effect,
amount to a rebate of premiums. But poor
underwriting results have stood in the way.
Since the close of accounts the United
Acceptance and Finance Pty., an English
concern, offered to buy the shares at 4s.
each. But the Pearl Assurance Co., another
London concern, which was founded in IS<>4
and has a paid capital of £1,360,000, and
funds totalling over £64,000,000. has snapped
up most of the scrip at an unstated figure.
Manly Gas Co.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921 . . 11,136 S p.c. - 5,460 1 1564 13,726
Written off, £4112 j
Reserves written off, £13,001 .. 725
Net
Profit.
1922 . . 7,663 8 p.c. = 6,180 1483 2,208
1923' . . 6.086 8 ~ „ 7,560 734
Premiums on shares, £517 . . • • 1,251
1924 .. 9,864 8 p.c. = 10,344 771
Premiums on shares, £BO4 . . ■ • 1,575
1925 . . 13,130 8 p.c. - 11,700 1430 3,005
1926 . . 12,040 8 „ ~ 13,200 1,845
Premiums on shares, £2847 .. .. 4,692
1927 . . 14,427 8 p.c. = 14,639 4,480
Premiums on shares, £5023 . . • • 9,503
1928 .. 18,549 8 p.c. = 17,189 1360 10,863
1929 . . 20,155 8 ~ „ 20,800 10,218
1930 .. 20 371 S „ ~20,800 9,789
1931 .. 17,849 7 „ ~18,200 9,438
Notwithstanding that the price charged by
the co. for gas was pushed up from 6s. 6d.
per 1000 c.f. in 1922 to Bs. in 1929 (due to
steadily-mounting coal and labor costs), re-
serves had to be tapped for £1074 to pay
the standard 8 p.c. div. for the two years
to the close of accounts in 1930. That was
because of the stoppage at Maitland. Thus
the gas consumer has had to pay for the
coalminers’ folly and the earlier coal-
owners’ greed.
However, a reduction in the price of coal,
following resumption at Maitland, with im-
proved carbonising methods and a lowering
of the calorific standard of gas, enabled the
co. to reduce the charge to the consumer by
6d. per 1000 c.f. last year. This and a shrink-
age of 6.4 p.c. in consumption (172.3 mil-
lion cubic feet) resulted in a drop of £8332
in gas sales, and returns from residuals were
£1655 lighter, making the_ contraction in
revenue £9987, as the following table show's:
f Year ended Dee. 31- ,
Per Per
1000 e.f. 1000 c.f.
1930. s. d. 1931. s. d.
Sales:—.
Gas ~£74,629 8 U £66,297 7 81
Residuals .. 6 825 0 8| 5,170 0 71
Total ..£81,454 8 10 £71,467 8 3$
Manufacturing, etc.—
Exes 40,122 4 4j 32,704 3 9*
Other charges. . 20,961 2 31 20,914 2 5$
Total outgo £61,08.3 6 71 £53,618 6 21
The savings in exes., etc., were thus £2522
short of the contraction in revenue, leaving
the net result at 6.9 p.c. on capital. There
was only £9438 in the cupboard, so a point
was clipped off the div., reducing it to
7 p.c.
And there are doubts about the 7 p.c.;
the Government is contemplating fresh legis-
lation to regulate the price of gas. N. S.
Wales gas cos. were first hampered by legis-
lation in 1912, when Carmichael’s Act sought
to regulate prices and divs. The experiment
broke down, having failed, amongst other
things, to provide for increased costs. In-
stead of 10 p.c. on old and 7 p.c. on new
capital, the amended Act of 1918 aimed at
standardising the div. at 8 p.c., and made
the question of allowances for depreciation,
etc., more explicit. For special purposes
revenue can now be charged with 3J p.c.
of the capital outlay on buildings and plant
(in at £297,476 at Dec. 31). The amount
so charged last year (£8000) was £2410
short of the statutory limit. At the moment
further reduction in the price charged by the
co. for gas can only be effected by reducing
the actual allowance for special purposes—
a dangerous experiment, pretty certain to
mean trouble for shareholders in the future
—or by a further cut in the div. On capi-
tal as it now stands (£260,000) a cut of
1 p.c. in the div. would be equal to 3Jd. per
1000 c.f. on the basis of last year’s sales.
One way in which the Government could help
to bring down the price of gas would be
to buy more of the co.’s tar and other by-
products for road-making purposes, thus
following the example set in Victoria.
For several years the pound shares were
fairly steady around 235. in the market;
they now fetch 195., thus making the auc-
tioning of new scrip impossible. So, to
provide for the erection of new plant, the
board has arranged a debenture loan on
“satisfactory terms.”
At Dec. 31 the co. had £316,271 invested
in fixed assets, and £B4SS of stocks. Book
debts, cash, etc., totalled £16,289. There
was £13,131 coming to sundry creditors, and
debentures (£25,000) and temporary loans
(£15,9751 figured at £43,975.
Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1 01 ' 7 .. 9.948 9 p.c. = 9,000 948 126,981
1918.. 14,530 10 ~ „ 10,000 4,530 131,511
•1919.. 10,012 10 ~ ~10,000 i 2(.
Written off, £17,495 J 114 > 028
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 64.028
1920.. 29,210 10 p.c. = 15,000 (
Written off contingencies, £ 248 j ’ ’
2 S,„^U ls ’ ooo } w* *»•
1922.. 20,291 10 p.c. = 15,000 5,291 92,176
1923.. 19,281 10 „ „ 15,000 4,281 96,457
1924.. 28,892 10 ~ „ 15,000 13,892 110,349
1925.. 29.420 10 ~ „ 15,000 14,420 124,769
inor;., 29.*44 10 ~ ~15,000 14.744 139.513
1927.. 32,617 10 „ ~15,000 17,617 157,130
1928.. 21,435 10 „ ~15,000 6,435 163,565
1929.. 20,886 10 „ ~15,000 5,886 169,451
1930.. 9,528 7$ „ „ 11,250 167,729
1931.. 8,560 5 „ „ 7,500 1,060 168,789
On the whole Australian coastal shipping
concerns have been doing fairly well despite
(Continued on page 16.)


uns J9IUUIIIS 6uigptlo9§ D ipo9U t
uni dois'Uou o nod usum
M
n
o-S
r
r»
y.yqsr
v.W
C:
:?W
mm
•'/: ■
a
MoBILOIL stands up. Down dale, up
hill...miles fly backward...treat her rough
if you have t 0... Mobiloil stands up.
Mobiloil resists heat because of its greater
stability...Mobiloil reduces friction because
of its greater oiliness... Mobiloil gives you
more power because there is a grade
scientifically made for your particular car.
Under the severest stresses of engine
operation, Mobiloil is the one oil that
always stands up.
Jtfake the Chart
Your Guide
Mobiloil
VjV
M 21
itandsup
Ask for Plume, too
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY., LTD.


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting ? -
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coj.lison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.)'. — Advt.
* * * *
Corrosion cannot choke the smooth interior bore
of Pioneer Wood Pipe—it carries a full bore of
water throughout its life. This is one very good
reason why experienced engineers specify Pioneer
Wood Pipe for water supply. Other "important
reasons are its great strength and durability, its
ability to give long trouble- and expense-free service,
its ease of handling and laying and the fact that
it is unaffected by heat, frost or electrolysis. Full
information gladly supplied on application, to The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road
(near Figtree Bridge). Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at
Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
AMP
“What Can I Afford to Invest
/ >•
-JfDi
/
?r
/4
3*
E
\ir^
*jy
'SfiT
a*
m
Life Assurance?”
“J COULD afford a pound
a month,” he said.
‘‘What can the A.M.P, do
for that? ”
A man of 26, in good health,
can insure his life for £545
by paying a monthly pre-
mium of £l, and there is
not a man employed in Aus-
tralia, single or married, who
cannot afford that!
An A.M.P. policy is the best
form of investment for sav-
ings. It is safer than stocks
and shares, safer than bonds,
safer than real estate; it
is more surely protected
against depreciation than any
other security of any kind
whatever.
Here’s proof: In 1906 a young man of 18, in a
certain country town —a young man with a clear
head on his shoulders —took out an A.M.P.
policy for £5OO. The annual premium was only
£B/15/10, and any lad in work can afford that.
To-day that policy has an estate value of £822,
so good have A.M.P. bonuses been. Other
policies have been added and the young man of
1 906 is now exceedingly well to do, content and
comfortable in the knowledge that his life savings
are invested in the largest mutual life office in
the Empire.
A man is never too young—and never too old
—to start building up his life insurance. The
A.M.P. can give him a policy to fit his income.
SEND
THIS
COUPON
To the AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
I should like to start, building up my assets through the A.M.P. I am
years of age. Send me full details. No obligation on my part.
Name
Address
AMP
the times, but this co., the oldest and finan-
cially one of the strongest of the lot, has
made a comparatively poor showing. That
is, on its disclosed figures; and it is doubt-
ful whether results have been much better
than they look. At any rate, the river trade
was so dull that it became a losing proposi-
tion, and in August last the Morpeth branch
was closed. After setting aside an unspeci-
fied amount for depreciation (none was
visibly allowed in the previous term) . the
profit claimed was £1939 lower at £7471.
An unexplained addition of £lOB9 to re-
serves brought up the £8560 shown in the
table, which was equal to 5.7 p.c. on capi-
tal, compared with 6.3, 14.2, 21.7 and 19.8
p.c. back to 1927. A further cut of p.c.
was made in the div., and £lO6O remained
for reserves (£168,789).
The co. runs a six-days-a-week passenger
service between Newcastle and Sydney, and
cargo is shipped daily to as far north as Port
Stephens. The State Transport Act may give
the co. some unintended aid; competition
from motor services became very keen after
the new highway was opened. But coal
freights have fallen away, and there is not
nearly the cargo and passenger traffic there
used to be. It is doubtful whether inner
strength has been built up recently on the
same substantial scale as in pre-war years—
often more was whisked out of sight than
was disclosed in those days. Nevertheless, it
is unlikely that the old cautious habits have
entirely disappeared.
Finances remain very snug:—
1919. 1930. 1931.
Capital £lOO,OOO £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities . . . . 23,557 12,487 10,032
Ship property . . . . 89,759 191,686 191,686
Freeholds and leaseholds 16,309 15,444' 15,419
Plant, stores, etc. .. 6,040 10,505 10,094
Book debts .. . 17,350 12,981 11,721
Cash, etc 108,332 103,350 103,650
The more or less liquid surplus (£105,339)
was £1495 stronger than at the previous
balance. Book value of the fleet remains
unchanged at £191,686; the three largest
vessels aggregate 5012 tons, and have been
kept in good order. The basis on which the
£103,650 of Government securities have been
taken in is not disclosed.
The market, obviously expecting a bonus
issue, increased its bid from 31s. in 1921
to 425. 6d. in September, 1929. Following
the collapse in share-values and the 1930
cut in the div., the price slumped to 21s.
in February, 1931. Soon recovering to 255.,
it has since remained steady. The return
is 4 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis, and the back-
ing 425. 6d. per share in net tangibles.
Primary Producers’ Bank (in Liq.)
The co. suspended payments on Aug. 24
last, because depositors continued to ask for
tlieir money back, and, with liquids exhausted,
securities w’ere frozen hard. The bank was
not insolvent. At Sept. 28, when it decided to
go . into voluntary liquidation, the book value
of the assets (£1,832,266) exceeded liabilities
(£1,439,344) by £392,922. The three months
to Dec. 28 were largely occupied in straight-
ening out legal difficulties in connection with
the appointment of liquidators in the vari-
ous States. Moneys readily collectable were
got in; receipts totalled £458,045, and pay-
ments, mainly to preferential creditors,
amounted to £161,342, leaving a cash balance
of £296,703 in the liquidators’ hands. No
distribution has yet been made to ordinary
creditors, but the liquidators can see no rea-
son for any delay when the legal difficulties
already referred to are out of the way.
The position at Dec. 28 was as follows:
Assets.
Notes and coin .. .. .. .. £672
Liquidators’ bank balances .. .. 296,031
Fixed deposits .. .. .. .. 13,000
Advances, etc... .. .. £1,275,411
Less reserves . . . . 78,504
1,196,817
Bank premises .. .. .. .. 123,157
Furniture, etc. . . . . . . . . 24,631
Total assets.. .. .. .. .£1,654,308
Liabilities.
Preferential claims .. .. .. £9,573
Secured creditors (mortgage plus interest) 41,2'd0
Ordinary creditors (deposits, etc.) . . 1,219,142
Contingent under leases .. . . . . 12,000
Total liabilities .. .. .. ..£1,281,915
Thus, subject to realisation and the cost of
liquidation, the surplus was £372,393.
Accrued interest on advances has not been
taken into account, which explains the appa-
rent loss of £20,000-odd over the three
months. Moratorium legislation of the vari-
ous States, which prevents the sale of many
securities, promises to make liquidation a
protracted business. The reserve of £78,591
against bad debts is considered insufficient-,
and a “serious loss” is expected on the sale
of the bank premises. However, the liquida-
tors consider that the assets will ultimately
realise sufficient to pay all creditors in full,
and cover exes, and losses. But it is very
doubtful whether shareholders, who are
liable to contribute up to £4 per share if
need be, will get much, if any, of their
money hack. They put up £904,256; the
452,128 shares of £5 each, paid to £1 were
issued at a premium of £l.
Although an unexpected irregularity in the
main ore body has prevented Wiluna from
fulfilling anticipations, recent developments
suggest pleasant surprises before long, says
chairman F. H'. Hamilton. Costs are said
to be coming down, and, of course, exchange
and the bounty are of great assistance. But
even without such aids, the chairman infers
that the mine can be worked at a profit, and
J. A. Agnew, technical member of the board,
who knows Wiluna well, concurs.
* * * *
Shareholders in Paringa, whose assets
included gold-mining quarries in Rhodesia
and rubber areas in Bolivia, have jibbed at
taking up a big wad of new shares, which
are now being offered to “other parties.” The
co. hopes to raise enough cash to resume
w r ork on suitable portions of its old Kal-
goorlie holdings. Meanwhile it is carrying on
at a loss.
* * * *
Maoriland speculators have plenty to
interest them these days. Following
the flotation of the Nokomai concern, the
Snotvy River Sluicing Co. has acquired 164
acres of mining claims with water rights,
together with 96 acres of freehold on the
banks of the Snowy River, on the west coast.
The co. wants £30,000 to kick off with, and
the bulk of its 120 ? 000 ss. shares have been
taken. Mining claims and privileges are to
cost £13,000.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Being unable to proceed to America
owing to heavy adverse, exchange on savings,
do you recommend purchase of Common-
wealth bonds through New York as a means
of transferring resources and offsetting ex-
change loss? (2) Or Canadian or Swedish
bonds payable N. York? (3) Failing above,
and assuming that interest is required in
England, money being in N.Z. at present,
would you prefer Union S. Africa bonds or
gold, shares to straight-out principal transfer
to England, or the purchase of bonds here,
bearing in mind the heavy indebtedness per
capita here and possible action to reduce
interest burden? (4) Finally. do you con-
sider the British and Australasian pounds
arc likely to be permanently depreciated, in
which case, presumably, property or land
investment would be the best means of con-
serving savings? —Bo24.
(1), (2) and (3) We know of no way
of escaping loss on the transfer of capital
from Australia or Maoriland. Common-
wealth bonds can be purchased at a very
low rate in N. York; but payment has to
be made in N. York for them at the rate of
about £lBO for every £lOO Australian. The
exchange N.Z. cn London is exceptionally
low; but difficulty may be found in arrang-
ing exchange for the transfer of capital.
(4) There is a strong body of opinion the
other way; but we are still not convinced
that permanent devaluation of either sterling
or the Australian or M.L. pound is inevit-
able. If it is, then property or land invest-
ment would be a good way to conserve sav-
ings, though there is always the possibility
that, as in Germany, all such property might
be loaded with a Government first mortgage.
(1)_ Should England and all other coun-
tries involved decide to cancel all war debts,
who will be the losers, and who will be
the gainers? (2) Will those who put their
money into war loans lose it entirely? —7B77.
(1) If all war debts had been cancelled,
the U.S. Government, on the basis of the
present scale of repayments, would have suf-
fered a loss of 233 million dollars in 1931.
rising to 300 millions in 1935, and to 350
millions in 1941, thereafter rising gradually
to a maximum of 418,686,000 dollars in 1984.
The position of Britain is that up to a recent
date her aggregate payments to the U.S.
Government exceed her aggregate receipts
from reparation and war debts by nearly
200 million pounds (allowing for interest),
but in future the current payments provided
for would be covered by the current receipts
(including reparation receipts from Ger-
many) with a small margin, (some £700,000
a year). (2) No. The British Government,
for example, borrowed from individuals to
lend to or buy things for, among others, Aus-
tralia. If that debt by Australia were can-
celled, Britain would still owe the money to
those it was borrowed from.
(1) The Langites here in Adelaide declare
that Mr. Lang says truly that Australia is
insolvent and should therefore declare itself
so, and thus get rid of all its debts. Could
this he legally done? (2) If it was done .
who would he the losers and who the gainers?
—7870.
(1) There is no international bank-
l'uptcy court, to which a defaulting coun-
try can go for examination and discharge. If
it defaults, it simply takes the consequences.
If the creditor is a foreign nation, the
latter may send a navy and take control of
the defaulting country, and put in a bailiff
and collect taxes or tributes. If the de-
faulter is a State working under a agree-
ment with other States, the latter may
also put a bailiff into the Treasury. If the
creditors are local people, then the Govern-
ment may merely refuse to pay them,
although paying somebody else. (2) The
Lang plan has been made quite clear by
Mr. Lang himself during the past few days
—it is to take from his enemies and likely
political opponents and give to his friends
and likely political supporters.
I lave an overdraft for £5OO, which has
been in existence for 12 years. The security
is two rent-producing houses rallied (by the
Valuer-General) at £l2OO. Interest has
alivays been paid punctually. Can the bank
call in the overdraft? I have refused to sign
fresh forms granting me an extension for six
months, as I was afraid I might thereby
forfeit some of my rights. —B223.
An ordinary bank overdraft is a secured
advance, usually callable on giving reasonable
notice. As a lot of people are only beginning
to realise, it is not a mortgage, and, therefore,
is not subject to moratorium Acts.
(1) I am prospecting near Yetholme
( N.S.W. ). There is a good deal of fine gold
scattered around the place. Does that mean
there is a reef about? (2) Helpful textbooks
for the prospector? —Bo94.
(1) Not necessarily—not even if large
particles are present. In some localities in
N. S. Wales gold has been found dissemi-
nated through siliceous granite, and it is
not unlikely that similar conditions prevail
at Yetholme. (2) “Guide Book for the Use
of Prospectors,” Mines Department. Sydney,
price 25., postage 2d. extra ; also “Prospect-
ing for Gold,” by I. L. Idriess, Angus and
Robertson, 4s. 6d.
Any information about Lander Oil Co.?
—8241.
Funds gave out, and drilling ceased some
time ago. But ground rent is being paid
and the show kept alive in the hope that
something will turn up. Tim A.R.0., a
neighboring concern, is negotiating w 7 ith
American interests at the moment.
What is the nature of the operations
carried on, or about to be carried on, by
Neic Guinea Gold Fields, Ltd,? —7957.
The property is nearing production stage
as a reefing proposition after some years
of elaborate development w T ork. Machinery
is being installed, and one small plant at
least is in operation. When the co. first
took over its properties, a good deal of allu-
vial still remained. Most of this has been
recovered, according to the progress reports.
The future of the co. lies entirely in reef
mining.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Mirror: (1) No other bank is in the
same position. (2) Outlook too uncertain ; if safety
is important, keep it on deposit. .. .J.J.: Depends on
the risks you are prepared to take. Look up Nestle’s
P re f s F.H.G.: (1) Prospects poor. (2) Doing
well. (3) Yes. .. .J.W.K.: Genuine enough, but can’t
get the capital it wanted; anyhow, it was doomed
to fail. .. .8.A.N.: Out of business. .. .R.P.N. (or it
may be R.S.W. or any of several other things, but
Gympie is the home-town) : (1) A gamble, of course,
though inviting at present prices. (2) Yes, when a
slight difference between the co. and the Stock
Exchange is adjusted. (3) Yes. From ss. Id. to
ss. 3d W.S.A.: (1) Gone west. (2) and (3)
Can’t tell. A letter to Australian Roma Oil,
Adelaide-street, Brisbane, might help A.G.W.:
Very doubtful. You made a bad choice... .F.F.N.:
(1) Co. has yet to prove that it can pay diys.
from tobacco land sold at £25 an acre. (2) A
reasonable speculation/ Values are right provided
dredging and recovery difficulties can be overcome;
new shakers have been installed. (3) No, (4) See
B. 6/l/’32... .T.P.D.: Afraid they are worth very
little. But the estate is liable for unpaid calls,
whether the shares are worth anything or not... .
A.F.N.: It is a pretty fair gamble; it .isn’t an
investment R.W.C.: Think very little of it. See
if the secretary can’t find you a buyer... .R.J.McG.:
The Wonthaggi proposal is to buy the shares of the
Returned Soldiers sub-branch and hand members the
money for the purpose of a memorial. It is not
proposed to buy out anybody else. But you would
apparently be entitled to a few bonus shares, which,
somebody might buy.. . .Harold P.: No present cause
for alarm. Hold on, unless you’re greatly in need.


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Disproportionate War Pensions
Dear Bulletin, —An ex-Dig, suffering
torments from periodical nerve attacks,
caused through shell-shock, and incapable of
doing even light work, draws eight shillings
and some odd pence each fortnight. This
unfortunate the other day had occasion to
call in quest of old boots and clothes on a
business magnate, drawing a fat salary,
and, incidentally, an ex-Digger pensioner,
receiving 30-odd shillings per week. An
ex-Digger in a good position and drawing
a good salary has no more right to be
drawing a pension than he has to be draw-
ing the dole when there are many of his
mates right below the breadline. —Yours,
Marsh.
War Pensions
Dear 8.,—-The article (B. 27/l/’32) on
“The Victims of Poison Gas” is wholly true.
The scale of pensions laid down is very
liberal for the cases specifically provided for
—loss of arms or legs, blindness, etc. —but
it was impossible to lay down a scale to
suit medical cases, the amount being left
to the Repat. doctors. So the allowances
inevitably trailed off the farther we left the
War behind us. The bulk of the pension
money goes to alleged dependants, not ex-
soldiers at all, and an overhaul of these
dependants would be enlightening. I will
quote two cases :
(1) Man in good Government position. Son
went to the war; mother was declared dependent
and drew separation allowance. The son was killed
and mother awarded full pension. This has paid
for the house the Government servant is living in
and for a motor-car besides.
(2) Man and several sons went to the war. Wife
drew separation allowance for husband and for each
son in addition. Husband returned, but now draws
a good pension, though able to do hard work. His
wife draws her allowance pro rata , and also full
pension for sons killed.
This is generous, but Australia cannot
afford it while the men who actually suffer
are not in all cases adequately provided for.
— Yours, Friar Tuck.
“These Ridiculous Elections”
Dear B., —One shining light has rent the
Sabbath air in the Sydney Domain for years
past with fatuous rodomontade and invec-
tive. The ears of the mob have been tickled,
but intellectually the alleged orator is as
empty as a drum. Another is an imported
fixture at the Trades Hall. For years he
has drawn good money supplied by the rank
and file, under compulsion, of course. Dur-
ing the whole of that time it is doubtful
whether he has contributed a single con-
structive thought towards the solution of
even one social problem affecting the wel-
fare of the working man. On the other
hand, there is a long procession of mis-
chievous acts and utterances to his discredit
which have seriously prejudiced the interests
of the workers and worsened their lot.
These two are better known by name all
over Australasia than any of our University
professors. Limelight is the breath of the
demagogue’s nostrils. As a result of
gratuitous publicity, such irresponsible no-
bodies are vested with an importance which
only publicity could bring them. The Press
must therefore take full responsibility for
the undue importance given to most of our
moron demagogues. If it would omit to men-
tion all such mischievous humbugs, their
influence for ill would soon shrivel. Why
don’t the papers draw up a sort of Index
Expurgatorius? Or are the bulk of the
papers merely humbugs, too? —Yours faith-
fully, D. O. Dorant.
Dr. Richard Arthur, M.L.A.
Dear Bulletin,— l see by a recent issue
you think it is time I shuffled off the political-
stage to make room for some brilliant young
statesman. I admit the charge that I am
not an authority on finance. On the other
hand, I claim that I have realised and been
the first to advocate some of the urgent
needs of the community. Nevertheless, if a
young man who has done or promises to do
more constructive work for the State comes
forward, I shall be prepared to make way
for him. Until then I .shall remain, believ-
ing I am of some value to the people.-
Yours faithfully, Richard Arthur.
Relief Works in S. Aus.
Dear Bulletin, —,T. H. Sheppard (B.
27/l/’32) mentions the heath lands in the
s.-e. of South Aus., and says thousands of
acres of first-class land only requires drain-
ing and clearing. Actually, about £500,000
has been spent in an attempt to drain this
country with just a few localised successes.
I have 1000 acres which are under water each
year till September or October, yet a Gov-
ernment main drain takes the corner out
of my paddock. The water did not rise
any higher or remain any longer previous
to the digging of the drain. By my house I
have a well with 4ft. of water in it. The hole
is 3ft. 6in. across, and it stands up to a cen-
trifugal throwing 10,000 gal. per hour—this
in the middle of our driest summer on
record ! If Mr. Sheppard wishes to do some-
thing for the unemployed, let him persuade
his Government to lend funds for clearing,
the IoaDS to be administered by district
councils, and to be made on the same terms
as the wire-netting loans, interest and a
portion of the principal to be paid back each
year, and the whole amount to be spent in
wages. If such a scheme were in vogue I
for one could employ a number of men
through the winter in grubbing yucca land.
It would be truly reproductive work. —I am
etc., Tumbe Munda.
Democracy’s Failure
Dear Bulletin, —“P..T.5.” (B. 27/l/’32)
loses sight of the fact that every extension
of me franchise has only produced a poorer
type of politician, increase in sectional in-
terests and sentimental legislation. Educa-
tion as it is understood to-day has given
the world the lawyer-agitator of Bengal; and
was it not the educated public servant who,
in October. 1930, presented us with our
own ,T. T. Lang? Probably a better scheme,
replacing the present mediocre bureaucracy
with the intelligence of a highly organised
legislature, could be achieved by the election
of representatives, on a per capita basis,
from each municipality or shire, to a con-
gress for the discussion of public questions.
The recommendations of this body would
then be submitted to a body of delegates
from each branch of industry, profession or
occupation, and their opinion would then be
considered by a committee formed by the
election of members from each body.—
Yours, Sandig.
Capital Readjustment
Dear B., —A possible defect in the Pre-
miers' plan would appear to follow auto-
matically from its success. As prices, etc.,
are adjusted downwards by, say, 224 p.c..
the value of money will increase; but fixed
money charges, while remaining nominally
the same, will really be increased in pur-
chasing or money value by 224 p.c. It
will be just as if the present nominal figures
had been raised by 224 p.c., and the burden
of paying them will be similarly increased.
Aren’t, we thus increasing the real capital
burden of public and private debts by 224
p.c.? To make the plan fair and equitable
should not there be a capital readjustment,
writing down or reconstruction? —Yours
faithfully, Lex.
Saving on 355. a Week
Dear Bulletin, —After over nine months’
idleness I left Gisborne (M.L.) to search for
work along back-country roads, well away
from the much-tramped highway. I found
a job (others could, too, if they would go
off the beaten track) cutting manuka scrub
on a farm 50 miles from town and 12 miles
from a main road. I get 355. a week (less
wage tax), and find myself in everything,
even mutton being charged for. The nearest
storekeeper is 14 miles away, a 21b. tin of
jam costing me Is. 6d. (Gisborne price
lid.) ; yet I manage to save 20s. a week,
and don’t stint my stores either. —Yours,
Erstwhile Workless Walter.
The Worker and the Boss
Dear Bulletin,.* —You speak truly of the
dread to-day of being thought a “boss's
man.” In the engineering shop in which I
served my time in Sydney a workman would
find his job salted down (covered with coarse
salt) if his mates thought it had been long
enough on his bench—an intimation from
them that he was not doing a fair thing for
the boss. What is responsible for the
change of spirit? No doubt the boss becom-
ing an impersonal limited co. is partly
responsible, but the main cause is the feeling
that if a man does too much he is doing liis
mates out of a job. Worked out to its logi-
cal conclusion this means
that if a man docs no
work, everyone would be
better off. The truth is
that the more work a man
does, the cheaper the
article he is making will
be for his mates to buy.
Nothing but increased
production can improve
the standard of living and
shorten the hours of labor.
—Yours etc., Austral.
The Road to Nowhere
Dear Bulletin, —Out
here in Queensland the
unemployed rambler is
compelled to travel from
ration station to ration
station to get a crust.
Were these unemployed
allowed to settle down in
or about out-back towns,
and were the numbers for
each town proportioned
according to' size and pro-
spects of employment, the
chances are that many of
the present, nomads would
(receive an odd day or
two’s work now and
again; some might even
fall into semi-permanent
jobs. Various seasonal
jobs would give employ-
ment if men were avail-
able when they offered;
but, others not being on
the spot, men in constant
employment receive over-
time for the work.—
Yours, A. N. M.
Old-age Pensioners’
Keep
Dear B.,—The Com-
monwealth spends mil-
lions on old-age pensions,
yet the old folk can’t live
very well on the amount;
and many of them exist
in misery. In Govern-
ment rural colonies they
would be far more com-
fortable and happier.
They could have moving
pictures and wireless —
which is more than nine-
tenths of them have now.
And the millions spent
could be reduced by half.
Certain public hospitals
have the weekly cost per
patient down to Bs. 44d.
On those figures the keep
of a rural-estates pen-
sioner would be about ss.
a week, probably less.
Would the old people go'.'
Yes, if they were shown
that this way their stan-
dard of living would be
raised. —Yours, L. A. S.
This Fruitful Country
Dear B., —“Hugh G.”
(B. 13/l/’32) says “it is
an atrocity that, in a
country as fruitful as
this, men should be forced
to beg.” Doubtless ; and
if the country is so fruit-
ful, why don’t he and liis
mates get together and
drag their living out of
it? Surely in Banana-
land, of all places, a small parcel of land
could be got o.n very easy terms, a few
simple implements and seeds procured like-
wise, and enough speedily raised from “the
fruitful land” to keep the toilers going. There
would be no luxuries, for a while —no ponies
or pictures; but we have had a double
allowance of them in the last dozen years,
and now the pendulum swings the other
way. Apparently numbers of “Hugh G.’s”
tramp back tracks and expect somebody else
to find them work. How did the early
settlers ,do ? They didn’t seek charity—there
wasn’t any to seek.—Yours, Elgar.
Is the Dole a Right?
Dear B.,—“Emel” (B. 27/l/’32) asks on
what grounds I claim the dole as my
right. The answer is I only claim the dole
because without it I would starve to death.
The responsibility in regard to the dole
belongs to the Government because it is
governmental ineptitude which has deprived
the worker of his living. Just so it was the
other day thought right and proper to com-
pensate a bank manager with a gift of
£lO,OOO for the loss of his living on another
bank taking his bank over. The shareholders
did not scream about that —although the
banks claim to be so very hard pressed. Tf
“Emel” can suggest any way in which the
bagmen can give “adequate return” for their
few shillings weekly allowance, let us hear
it. —Yours etc., Gad.
“Christ on the Road”
Dear B., —As another Catholic priest, I
would like also to answer “Gad’s” question,
“What would Christ do if he met a man in
apparent want?” And I would answer by
asking another, What would Christ do in
a modern presbytery in Australia when asked,
as I have been, for 21 ten-pound notes, four
£2s’s, one £BOO and various other amounts,
including innumerable fivers? I am hardly
ever asked for food, but I have been for
years past asked for over £2OOO annually,
and lately the amount has been far beyond
that. Believe me, the above is no fanciful
tale, but fact.—Yours, Gaddag.
Costs in the Pastoral Industry
Dear B., —From the bush-fires lately
devastating the N.S.W. backblocks unex-
pected consequences may issue. Airily the
city expert avers that “fires improve the land
and make work.” But will they this time?
The pastoralist, big and small, is already
up to his neck in debt, and wool at Is. or
less will not get him out; therefore he will
not borrow money to re-fence, even should
enough unburnt timber remain on his run.
I predict that shepherding will be resorted
to. as in the days of the first squatters, whose
wives and children tended the first flocks.
Only great reductions in costs can save them
from it.—Yours, K. D. S.
Compulsory Military Training
Dear Bulletin, —About 50,000 men aged
between 18 and 28 are unemployed and main-
tained either directly or indirectly by the
nation. They could be assembled in military
camps and trained during the winter months
at little extra expense, and would thus be-
come an insurance and an asset to the Com-
monwealth. Industry would not suffer, as
there would be no withdrawal from it, and
the men would, in addition to military train-
ing, be educated a little in the direction
of national ideals and citizenship. The im-
provement in physique as well as mental
outlook would be marked. The wretched
treatment of men on the road is fast wreck-
ing the morals of young men and making
for depravity and revolution. —Yours etc.,
John Martin.
Write Down on Both Sides
Dear Bulletin, —The heavy demand for
all classes of commodities brought about
through the waste of war led to inflated
values of goods, which in turn led to a rise
in rents, interest, labor, etc. Credit was
easy to get ; therefore speculation increased.
With the boom came the borrowing craze.
Governments spent freely in works mostly
of an unproductive character or works that
paid but very poorly. Local bodies borrowed
for a similar purpose. People borrowed
furiously. Finally the boom burst and the
worth of our exports fell to below cost of
production, but not so our rates of interest
and taxation, etc. We are therefore now
trying to pay an inflated debt with a deflated
income. In production, our land is as
wealthy as ever, if not more so, so that our
trouble must lie mainly in our currency.
Values were inflated at least 30 p.c. Why
not deflate or write off 20 p.c. or 25 p.c. of
our values of every description? Write
down land values, mortgages, rates of
interest, wages, debentures —in fact, every-
thing, even to our savings in the savings
banks, but not moneys invested or deposited
before the war. We could not of course do
this with our external debt, but could do it
at home. By this method everybody would
make a like sacrifice according to his stand-
ing. The laborer would make less in wages,
but would get more purchasing power in
what he did earn. The farmer overloaded
with mortgages would have a better chance
of meeting his liabilities.
From this should come a steady flow of
confidence leading to employment and a sane
prosperity.—Yours, R. A. B.
IN THE WRONG YEAR.
“Dr. Bradfield proposes the construction of a motor speedway from Sydney to Mona Vale at a
cost of nearly £2,000,000, to link up Manly with the city.”
THE LITTLE BOY FROM MANLY: “Good on you, Doc! But isn’t there something wrong with your
calendar?”


The Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY”
Bulletin PuilplTnqs
252 Georqe MreeC.
i S Y D N E. ' '
See announcement page 13.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's (com. Saturday) .... “Blue Roses”
State ... < . Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Sinbad the Sailor” Pantomime
King's “The Barretts of Wimpole Street”
(Com. Saturday)
State Movies and Talkies
“Diversion,” a play which followed “Young
Woodley” from the pen of John van Druten,
was essayed by the Sydney New Rep.
Society’s “blue unit” at St. James’s Hall on
Saturday. It is, as all drama should be, a
study of the effects of deep emotion. The
piece has been called sordid by various critics,
but the fact that the affection of Wyn Hay-
ward was given to a woman who regarded
him merely as a diversion, she having other
lovers, does not justify the epithet. The cir-
cumstances are commonplace, but all the
elements of drama are commonplace. It is
the business of a playwright to make them
interesting and convincing. After he has
done his part it is up to the actors to carry
out the illusion of reality. Van Druten has
done his work with insight. The emotional
climaxes are brought out in dialogue that
has the flavor of reality, the progressive
infatuation of Wyn for the worthless Rayetta
is manifested naturally, and the first tragedy
in the play, the strangling of Rayetta, fits
into its place quite logically. The epilogue,
in which Sir Charles Hayward, the young
man’s father, hands the youth a dose of
poison with which to end his unfortunate
career, is not very successfully linked with
earlier interviews, in which the father’s
efforts to save his son from what the elder
recognises is folly and disaster are very
realistically depicted. Some allowance, how-
ever, must be made for the cataclysmic effect
of the son’s crime upon his father’s mind.
The acting, while scarcely adequate to the
play, was nowhere notably deficient. Kenneth
Fowles, as Wyn, at times rose •to the
possibilities of his part. Rena Law-
rence, as Rayetta Muir, started stagily,
but got nearer and nearer truth as
the play proceeded. William Hynes, though
given to awkward silences, invested the
part of the father with some sincerity,
and Barbara Smith and Dennis Glenny,
whose job was to rattle off society small talk,
fitted into the picture fairly snugly. To
this Showman the efforts of Scott Alex-
ander’s amateurs- to present new ! plays that
are worth playing are, whatever their short-
comings, a great deal more interesting than
the more polished performances by profes-
sionals of shopworn trivialities and inanities.
* * *
Doris Fitton’s Independent Theatre co.
staged at Sydney Savoy on Saturday
the naval comedy “The Middle Watch,”
a rollicking affair, full of comic situations
and smart dialogue. The fun arises from
the presence aboard a British man-o’-war
of a pair of pretty damsels during the middle
watch —midnight to 4 a.m. The ladies, F‘ay
Eaton (Marguerite Cullen-Ward) and Mary
Carlton (Molly Brown), had stayed at
the invitation of Captain Randall (Charles
Arundel-Nott) of the Royal Marines, to
whom Fay is engaged, for an unofficial
supper party .following a dance aboard the
ship. Commander Baddeley (Raymond
Bawtree) is also a member of the party. The
picket boat which was to have conveyed the
girls ashore after supper develops engine
trouble, and they have to remain on board.
Captain Maitland (Richard Parry), a middle-
aged bachelor, wedded to the Service, is
furious. Upon meeting the maidens, how-
ever, he changes his tune and cannot do
enough for them. He consents to their
occupying his sleeping quarters, and even
selects the pyjamas they are to wear. He
especially favors Mary. A signal is received
from the flagship, which has heard of the
damaged picket boat, offering the use of one
of its boats. Maitland signals back that he
has nobody to send ashore. A sentry is
posted in the captain’s quarters with orders
to prevent the “access of unauthorised per-
sons,’’ and wait on the young women;
Marine Ogg (Bruce Bennett-Smith), mar-
ried, father of eight children, is chosen for
the delicate task. He paces his beat with-
out his boots in order not to disturb the
fair guests. Just as all concerned are com-
fortably settled, Admiral Sir Hercules
Hewitt (Albert Collins) joins the vessel.
His wife and daughter are aboard a dis-
tressed yacht within easy steaming distance,
and the Admiral wants Maitland’s ship to go
to their assistance, proposing also to direct
the rescue in person. His presence is embar-
rassing, as he is known to be an exception-
ally straight-laced old bird. The Admiral
decides to sleep in the captain’s cabin,
and there follows a game of hide-and-seek,
in which the conspirators get badly flus-
tered. After a lot of scurrying from one
cabin to another, the girls are finally dis-
covered by the scandalised Admiral. He
threatens the captain with dismissal from
the service, and is especially severe on the
commander, who happens to be engaged to
his daughter. In the morning Mary vamps
the Admiral, and so arranges things that he
is caught by his subordinate officers with her
in his arms. The Admiral’s lady (Anita Camp-
bell) and daughter Nancy (Elizabeth Robin-
son) aiAive. The girls are hidden again, but
the Admiral’s wife spies them out, up-
braids Maitland and Baddeley, and even
suspects the flustered Hercules. At this
stage Fay’s chaperone, Charlotte Hop-
kinson (Elizabeth Camper), a dowdy spin-
ster who had been accidentally "locked
up in the compass-room the night before,
turns up. She recognises Lady Hewitt as
a girlhood friend who once spent a night
aboard a warship in much the same cir-
cumstances as did Fay and Mary. The
curtain rings down on the satisfactory solu-
tion of everyone’s troubles. Acting was
bright and snappy, though there were inter-
ludes when the prompter was heard and
others in which nobody was heard. Albert
Collins and Bruce Bennett-Smith were well
suited to their roles. Charles Degotardi
(Ah Fong) and Charles Stanley (Corporal
Duckett) played character parts present-
ably, and Messrs. Parry, Bawtree and
Arundel-Nott were at home in their parts.
Molly Brown handled her lines cleverly,
Elizabeth Camper was just, what one expects
a chaperone to be, and Anita Campbell made
the married males in the audience shudder
when she nagged. The other girls were also
up to the mark.
¥ * *
At Sydney Roxy on Saturday the big fea-
ture of the entertainment was the return of
Ada Reeve. She sings some new songs and
some old favorites, and is the centre of a
sketch, “Beware of Madame,” which goes
very well. Other newcomers are Ventrix, a
ventriloquist, and Murray and Walton, step-
dancers. Lcn Rich and other members of
the co. present some bright burlesques, aided
by the ballet, and the Chinese jugglers, the
Alvarados and Elsa Lewis, violinist, are
still on the bill.
* * *
At Sydney Grand Opera House Nat
Phillips and his co. appear in the revue “All
Aboard.” Joe Lawman and Stiffy are as
often on the stage as off; Angela Parselles
continues to warble sweetly; Keith Con-
nolly and Betty Lambert sing and dance,
backed by the ballet, and Betty Weldon, a
soubrette, makes a first appearance.
* ¥ #
In a spirit that can’t be too highly
commended in these parlous- times . the
Stu debaker people have staged in their
spacious Sydney showrooms an exhibition
on behalf of Australian automotive indus-
tries. It isn’t a fully representative show
so far as individual manufacturers are
concerned, but it covers a lot of ground and
demonstrates that practically every part
of a motor-car not only can be but is being
made in this country. There’s nothing the
matter with the quality of these products,
evidently, for replacement parts are made
for the very finest imported cars, and there
wouldn’t be a market for them if they
“THE MERRY WIDOW”
Now reviving herself at Sydney Her Majesty’s.
Left to right, top to bottom: Natalie (Romola Hansen) and the cause of all the'
trouble; Nisch (Leo Franklin); Baron Popoff (Cecil Kellaway); M. de Brioche
(Bill Perryman ) ; the waiter (Harold Dale); Sonia (Dot Brunton); the Council
of Foreign Bondholders, rampant; Prince Danilo (Frank Leighton) imitating a
gee-gee; Marquis de Cascada (Syd Wheeler); and Vicomte de Jolidon (Herb.
Browne.)
weren’t up to scratch. In recent years
vast progress has been made in Australia
in steel manufactures, and achievements in
this direction show that most of our
importing in this line is more a matter
of habit and prejudice than of necessity. As
for rubber goods, the resources of the
Dunlop-Perdriau people, who have a fine
stall, are equal to anything from a baby’s
soother to a set of tyres for the Harbor
Bridge (if it ever becomes necessary to shift
that noble structure). Springs, gears, pis-
tons, spark-plugs, axles, bearings, stamped
steel bodies, fenders, lacquers, polishers and
a host of gadgets are on show, and admis-
sion is free.
*- * *
Beresford Fowler has just performed the
remarkable feat of interesting three full
houses at Queen’s Hall, Melbourne, in a
first production in Australia of Shaw’s “Mis-
alliance.” The piece is rich in conversa-
tion and poor in drama. The remark of
one of the characters 40 minutes after the
curtain rises that she does so want some-
thing to happen is apt to be echoed in the
breast of every average playgoer. It is true
that at the end of the first act an aeroplane
falls through Mrs. Tarleton’s conservatory,
but it does this off stage. Not that Mr. Fowler
would have been daunted if the playwright
had made it fall on stage. Nothing bafflles Mr.
Fowler. He once staged the Australian
battlefront in France on his 10-b.v-10 allot-
ment. He would stage the Sydney-Mclbourne
express or the Harbor Bridge in full view
of the audience if circumstances required it.
To get on with the story, as Mr. Shaw
doesn’t, much of the conversation in “Mis-
alliance” is highly amusing, and, for once
in a way, some of Mr. Shaw’s characters are
not Shaw disguised in various costumes.
Among the human beings present is John
Tarleton, a linen draper with a good brain
which has been allowed to lie fallow until
in later years it gets ploughed in all direc-
tions by desultory reading. That first-class
aetor H. N. Gregory made an excellent por-
trait out of this material. Another perform-
ance which merits the adjective marvel-
lous was that of Mrs. E. Camplcin, who,
whether by accident or design, made a piece
of perfect realism out of Mrs. Tarleton.
Bentley Summerhays, a young limb or twig
of the aristocracy, whose job is to fling
caustic Shavianisms at England’s commer-
cial materialism, was vivaciously drawn by
Douglas Kelly. J. Martin, Brenda Thomas,
Beresford Fowler and Florence Cheers were
adequate.
* * *
No reasonable theatregoer could expect
more in the way of frivolous entertainment
than “The Merry Masquerader,” Jim
Gerald’s latest revue at Melbourne Tivoli.
Anybody who was less of an artist or an
individualist than James would set the con-
scientious commentator feeling in his hip-
pocket for his critical sixshooter, but Gerald
has the capacity for making even the crying-
est absurdity seem significant. Everything the
composer-producer-play wrighting comedian
does and says has the unsophisticated air of
being an innocent impromptu. Rumor has
it . that it very often is impromptu, and that
James selects liis staff from persons able
at a second’s notice to change the nature of
the defence or the direction of the offensive.
At any rate, on Saturday Heather Jones
seemed to share the surprise and the amuse-
ment of the audience at Gerald's answers
to her questions. The first part of the bill
is no more than f.a.q. vaudeville, but the
second half is a miniature musical comedy,
which is not as pretentious as the Firm’s
efforts in that department but is easier to
listen to than the Firm’s sometimes are.
Gerald appears as an English crook who
masquerades as an American millionaire in
order to get engaged to the fair daughter
of Sir George Hunter. Reg Hawthorne is
the baronet who accepts such improbabilities
as a prospective son-in-law who walks down-
stairs on his ear and kisses the housemaid
in the drawing-room. A song by Gerald
about the suburbs suggests that if the play-
wright turned himself to Australian themes
he would start a local renaissance. Leo
ffrennett approaches nearer to the idea of a
human gramophone than any other vocalist
this Showman has listened to for a long
time; Thelma Duff is a graceful dancer; a
number of girls with different names but the
same personality comprise the chorus, and
other features interrupt-the flow of Gerald.
Nellie Bramley, at Adelaide Ro.val, has
switched off to the lurid “On the Spot”—and,
if she wilttake friendlyadvice, will not return
to the little-girl “Pollyanna” parts. Austin
Milroy gets a real chance at last as the Al
Capone gangster; and Miss Bramley herself
does fine work as his Asiatic solace.
SHADOW SHOWS.
“The Cuban Love Song” (Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer), which occupies the Sydney Capitol
screen, features the glorious voice of the
commonplace-looking Lawrence Tibbett and
the vivacity of Lupe Velez. Terry Burke
(Tibbett) is a roaming, reckless son of
wealthy parents, who has (without the
slightest regard for probability) enlisted in
the marines in search of excitement. In
Havana he upsets a cart belonging to
Nenita (Velez), a Cuban peanut hawker,
who turns upon him, lets loose a
torrent of Spanish and hollers for the police.
Terry is arrested, but Nenita, when she gets
over her rage and sees wliat a fine gentle-
man he is, withdraws the charge. Terry
plunges into an affair with her, thougn
he has a fiancee, Crystal, in ’Frisco.
There follow a visit to a village fiesta,
where Nenita dances the rumba, and various
scenes, including one in a bedroom, which
are settings for love lyrics sung by Terry.
In the middle of a duet with Nenita
Terry is whisked off by a naval patrol. War
has been declared on Germany and his
presence is needed on the other side of the
world. He is wounded. Ilis fiancee, who
has become a nurse, cares for him, and he
marries her. Terry’s heart, however, is in
Havana, and 10 years after leaving the place
he returns in search of Nenita. That young
woman is dead but has left a son—his. Terry
takes 'him home and his wife adopts the
youngster. Ernest Torrence and Jimmy
Durante as a pair of dare-devil sailors,
Karen Morlcy as _ Crystal and Louise
Fazenda as a sailor’s wife fill minor rOles
adequately. A deft touch is the scene in
which Tibbett sings a duet with himself,
two sound records being neatly synchron-
ised. Photography is excellent, scenery
pretty, acting competent and singing beauti-
ful. The story is absurd.
# # V
“Skyline” (Fox), at Sydney Regent, is an
essay on the hackneyed theme of concealed
paternity. It has as atmosphere the building
of skyscrapers in New York, and the central
figure, John Breen (Hardie Albright), is the
typical successful youiig American. Breen
was born and bred on a river barge. He believes
the bullying captain to be his parent, but his
mother on her death-bed states that he is
not, whereupon the young man violently
assaults his adopted father and leaves the
barge for ever, Taking a job as a laborer
with a steel construction firm which is erect-
ing a skyscraper, he comes in contact w T ith
the chief engineer, McClellan (Thomas.
Meighan), another typical successful Ameri-
can. McClellan discovers that he is Breen’s
father, but keeps the information to himself
on account of Breen’s bitterness against, his
unknown parent. In the meantime Breen
falls in love with Kathleen (Maureen O’Sul-
livan), a workmate’s daughter, but as he
moves up in the world, with McClellan’s
help, he turns from her to Paula, a vamp
with a past in which McClellan had figured.
McClellan arranges for his offspring’s
enlightenment a tableau in which Paula and
himself figure. Disillusioned, Breen returns
to Kathleen, and later, w T hen McClelland
informs him of his parentage, he wallops his
parent on, the jaw. The rest of it is a
sloppy reconciliation of father and son.
Scenic trimmings are convincing and the
acting as good as the story will allow. The
two young principals, Albright and Miss
O’Sullivan, exhibit a great deal of talent,
and Meighan is well cast as a captain of
industry.
In Fox’s “Surrender,” also at Sydney
Regent, Warner Baxter Dumaine is seen
in a war-prisoners’ camp in the shadow of
Castle Reichendorf, Northern Prussia. He
plots with his intimates, soldiers of France
with a strong American accent, to escape,
but all are recaptured. Hard-laboring in the
castle outworks, Baxter .puts out a fire which
might have destroyed the castle and earns
the thanks of Axelle (Leila Hyams). They
fall in love, though Axelle is the fiancee of
Dietrich (Alex. Kirkland). Elbing (Ralph
Bellamy), the camp captain, has a hope-
less passion for her. When Baxter and
co. again escape, only to be again cap-
tured, Elbing passes sentence of death.
Axelle, confessing she loves this enemy of
the Fatherland, prevails on him to pardon
Baxter. Elbing, overcome by remorse at his
dereliction of duty, commits suicide. The
photography, especially in the macabre scene
showing a burial squad carrying a coffin
across the sands at night, equal’s Ufa’s best.
It was . done by James Wong How’e—a
Chinese.
* * #
The best that can be said of “Homicide
Squad” (Universal), the gangster film that
fills up the Haymarket programme, is that
the criminals are not glorified at the expense
of the police. Leo Carrillo portrays the part
of Louie Grenado, an Italian bootlegger. The
son of Michael Buckley, a police commis-
sioner, becomes a member of Grenado’s gang
by false pretences and is murdered by
Grenado just as he is about to turn over to
the police the incriminating evidence he has
collected. Grenado leaves the corpse lying
in one of his known lairs, which seems in-
credibly careless. At Buckley’s instance a
large number of gunmen are rounded up, and
although Grenado is not ensnared he brazenly
turns up at police headquarters with an
alibi. Grenado informs the policeman that 18
years before he, too, lost a son, the boy hav-
ing unaccountably vanished. Buckley sees
a way of getting even with Grenado; by
various tricks he makes it appear that a
young member of Grenado’s gang is the
long-lost son. Grenado is lured to a ren-
dezvous, where he hopes to meet his sup-
posed offspring, and is shot down. Noah
Beery. George Brent, Russell Gleason and
Mary Brian play their parts adequately.


5^P
T
C
m
&
Jf
r
y
y
y
j
y
y
r.
m
r*
m
m'
m
m
W
'Qy\
m
i
m
■m
m
YR)TE(XPHESS
THREE THREES ARE NOW NINE
/£
r
Three-threes have always had an "air" about them, always been
"different," always had an Ardath "something" that other cigarettes
completely missed. That's why so many smokers have always been
content to pay a special price for them, and that’s why there’s so
much excitement now they’re down to nine for sixpence. Unchanged
Ardath quality! And choice of CORK or PLAIN tips.
CORK TIPPED AND PLAI N
9f 0 ,6
I S for V- , 27 for K 6
Also Flat Fifties, Flat Hundreds and
Round Air-tight Fifties.
2501


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1534.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lS Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
y
V... A
BE#: a: a*.
j«SSTITIs - :: BHIHV • .n. rti T
•mim
1»IM i M
The Great Banff Springs Hotel.
h
MHe high Mountain
Resort on the nay
to England
On your way to England, stop over at Banff,
in the Canadian Rockies—Mecca of world
tourists. See the sun rise over a hundred
snow peaks—ride out into the scented pine
woods—swim in a glass sheltered warm sul-
phur pool—golf in a lovely green valley—
enjoy the social attractions, the comforts and
service of a palatial mountain hotel. The
magnificence and pleasures of Banff are only
reached by the C.P.R. route to England.
Write for illustrated literature and details.
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney.
2/31.2
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAIN § STEAMERS HOTELS
Ohe World's Greatest 2'ravel System
ABORIGINALITIES
“T.P.”: Boning Shire Council (Vic.) has
had to inform Miss G. H’. Warrack, an
Edinburgh lady, that she is mistaken in her
belief that Warracknabeal was named after
an ancestor of hers, who emigrated to Aus-
tralia, even though “nabeal” is Gaelic and
means “.of the pass” or “of the ravine.” The
incident reminds me of a locust-eaten half-
century since, when I parboiled in the great
wheat centre. We called it “Weerrack” for
short, which is the correct spelling of the first
PIECEWORK.
McHAGGIS (to photographer): “Aye, but it’s only one side of via face —do you no
male’ a reduction for that?”
part. In abo. lingo the word means “big,
big gum-trees.” Well do I remember the
giant gums which at that period glorified the
landscape. Our police magistrate, an iras-
cible ex-Indian military officer, with a
liver and a grim sense of humor, said once,
“These outlandish names get on my nerves. I
can stand Tangambalanga, Upotipotpon,
vv onwondah-Dollin, Duchembegarra, Ozenkad-
nook, Swiping Gully and Hell’s Kitchen,
but when it comes to Dim-dam-boola and
Weerrack-the-plurry-beal, I’ve had enough.”
“Larrapinta” : That yarn about
python-wrestling (B. 6/l/’32i
reminds me. Over 40 years ago
my blackboy located an outsize in
Queensland rock-pythons sunning
himself on a rock. Having just
shed his skin he looked magnifi-
cent —a glittering coil of yellow
and black as large as a towing
hawser. I smashed his head to
pieces with a .44 revolver bullet.
The next instant the coils went
thrashing madly about among the
rocks, and, not wishing to see a
beautiful skin bruised to pieces,
I told the blackboy to help me and
sprang down and grabbed him. I
was no weakling; the boy (whose
skeleton is now in the Adelaide
Museum) stood 6ft. 44in. and was
very strong for an abo. Yet we
were both flung all over the place
by that writhing snake, and we
had a mighty tussle with him
before we managed to get him
away from the rocks and on to
clear ground where the skin
would not be damaged. After
the skin was dried it taped
just short of 14 feet: Otto
Geislcr, of Bowden (S.A.), tanned
it for me, and it made fine belts
for my sisters and myself. I
should say that the feat of strang-
ling a rock-python could be per-
formed by a strong and active
man, but a lot would depend on
the size of the wriggler; few
attain the size of the one 1 shot.
But if they all thresh about as
madly as the one we man-handled,
the snake-wrestler must have a
half-hour without a dull second
in it.
“Bad Australian”: Pat Noonan was a
knowledgeable man among stock. He
would remove a growth as confident]
as he would administer a drench, and
considering his abysmal ignorance or amu-
omy his failures were surprisingly few.
His surgical and medical apparatus con-
sisted of a knife, a bagging needle with a
curved point, a hank of bagging twine, a
bottle of carbolic oil. a tin of “Shtockhollum’’
tar, and a small blue glass jar of .sulphuric
acid. Open wounds were treated with car-
bolic oil; tumors and similar growths were
gouged out. and the wound, after being well
swabbed with carbolic, was sewn up with
bagging twine. A dab of Shtockhollum com-
pleted the operation. I only once saw the
strongest medicine in his outfit applied. One
morning Ole Jensen turned up at Pat’s place
with his nag Yimmy. Yimmy had a
great running sore on his neck just in front
of the withers, and as soon as this caught
Pat’s eye he assumed a professional air and
remarked: “Ah. it’s a festherlow he have,
THE HOPELESS HOWL.
“You ain’t gain’ to git no more ’'possum, so yer can cry till y’ black in a face.”
Oily, me b’y. A festherlow is wan av th’
most conthrairy dis’ascs in tli’ wurruld, but
Oi’ll soon lave him th’ way it’ll be no more
ann’yanCe to him.” With the aid of Ole and
one of his boys, Tat put the ropes on Yimmy,
and when the animal was thrown he took
the stopper out of the blue glass jar and
poured abou( an ounce of its contents on
the fistula, which began immediately to
seethe and bubble and give off a thin vapor.
The horse emitted a series of agonised
grunts, and struggled desperately to free
himself, but without success. Then, with
every muscle quivering and the sweat pour-
ing off him like water, he ceased struggling
and lay still. “Now, b’ys,” commanded Tat,
“let ye shlack th’ ropes off av.th’ misfor-
clmnate baste, and lave. him. resht whoile we
go up to th’ house for a bit av dinner an’
a blasht av.th’ poipe.” When they returned
about two hours later, Pat’s promise had
been fulfilled to the letter. The “misfor-
chunate baste” lay exactly where they had
left him, and the crows were already busy
on his carcase.
* * * ••
“Oollarinna”: “Your chookies. bin eatem
my sistar; you killem you chookies,” sobbed
Billy, tears streaming down his black face
as he leaned over the house fence. “What
sister?” we inquired, thinking she must
have been a diminutive lady for our five
hens to have devoured her. “My sistar what
bin die long long time, when him picca-
ninny,” he replied. “Aw, cranky thing!”
interrupted Lily, his wife. “He had little
bit. bone of his sister in a bag, but he
wantem that bag to keep Ins tobac and
matches in, so he buried her in a hole by his
humpy. Rain-time the hole get full up with
water, by-an’-bye some frogs sit down longa
water. Billy reckon ’em is Sister all about
come ’live, so he protein longa a jamtin. You
chookies bin walkabout an’ eatem frogs that
was Billy’s sister. Billy reckon you killem
you chookies, then he corroboree to-niglit;
he too much proper sorry his sister bin
finishem.” “Yes,” agreed Billy, “me all about
too much sorry you chookies eatem my
sistar. You gibbit me new trouser, plenty
tobac, fat to rub on me so me can’t be any
more sorry.” And though Billv for about 20
years has had no thought of mourning, he
now has new trousers, plenty of tobacco
and a tin of fat’ to make his skin shine.
’ * * *
“Paumotu” : Belief in arboreal monstrosi-
ties (B. 27/l/’32) is spread all round the
world, and particularly in the vast area
colloquially known as the Pacific Islands.
One horror afflicting the islands of the far-
eastern Pacific is the hanging man. He is
a terror that walks by day, and particu-
larly devotes himself to some solitary indi-
vidual’ usually a toddy cutter. The hanging-
man’s advent is heralded by the crashing of a
falling tree, and if the prospective victim
does not beat a speedy retreat he gets a glimpse
of his pursuer which usually lasts him his
lifetime, even if nothing worse befalls him.
The thing is in human form, but much
decayed, and with its interior economy very
much in evidence as a result. It travels
swiftly through the tops of the trees or
cocoanut, palms, head downwards, and hang-
ing on by its feet with hands ready to grasp
and strangle the fugitive. R. L. Stevenson
long ago wrote of this terror as a legend
of another group than that the writer has
in mind, but it seems to be generally
accepted all over the Low Archipelago and
to extend to the Gilberts and other Line
island groups.
“Burdekin” : The recent N.Q. floods have
had some queer consequences, none more so
than those which overtook Farmer Jensen
in the Bowen district. His place is on a
creek near the sea, and when the flood came
his cattle set out for blue water. After the
waters subsided it was found that 25 cattle,
still alive, were suspended in the tops of
the mangrove-trees which form the impene-
trable delta of every creek and river in those
parts. A party formed to release them had
cut their way through and rescued 18 at
last advices. The story recalls a joke that
used to be played on newchums in the
Balonne River country, further south. The
whole countryside is low, and when the
Maranoa, Condamine and Balonne get to
business is flooded for miles on either side
of the channels to considerable depths. It
is a common thing to see the carcases of
drowned cattle in the forks of trees 30 feet
from the ground. Wondering neophytes
were always told these were beasts that had
climbed the trees in drought-time to eat the
leaves, and departed marvelling greatly.
# * ❖ *
“Felix”: When I was in charge of an
outlying sheep station in Tassie, I used
to set traps for rabbits at night. A
mongrel went with me. He was use-
less with sheep, and would have been
shot early in his career were it not for his
genius in finding lost rabbit-traps. One
morning when going round the traps as usual
the dog suddenly made off in pursuit of a
flock of sheep several hundred yards ahead.
I called him, and shouted at him in despera-
tion, vowing vengeance. I had a mortal
dread of what might happen if the boss
should witness the performance. After a
w’hile the dog separated one of the sheep
from the flock and threw it to the ground.
When I came up to execute a death sentence
he was carefully holding the unharmed
sheep, on whose foot was a missing rabbit-
trap. On another occasion, years afterwards,
I had a sheep-dog with several young puppies.
When I had to leave home to go about 10
miles away for the shearing, the dog fol-
lowed me. She accompanied me about all
day, and was with me when I went to bed
and first thing in the morning. After a
couple of days I felt pretty angry with her
for abandoning the pups. I expected to
find them dead when I got home. At the
week-end, however, I found the family well
and hearty. Their mother had travelled
home each night to attend to domestic duties
and returned before dawn to the shearing
station.
PASSIN’ THAT WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s a pretty road by Dingo Pound;
I like to pass that way.
It is a trifle further round,
But the gums is grand, on the level ground,
An’ the creek ’as a quiet sort o’ sound,
So I like to pass that way.
It’s w’en the sun’s a-sinkin’ low
That I like to pass that way;
Each little cloud ’as a crimson bow,
An’ all sweet-smellin’ things that grow
Swing in the wind, like, soft an’ slow,
The times I pass that way.
Sometimes Emily’s at the gate;
She knows I pass that way.
It doesn’t matter if she’s late.
It never seems too long to wait,
She’s sure to come, at any rate,
To pass the time o’ day.
An’ w’en we walk beside the creek
We ’aven’t much to say.
Our eyes seem playin’ ’ide an’ seek,
An’ there don’t seem any need to speak. ...
But ’and-in-’and, Just once a week,
We like to pass that way.
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M, J. liyan, Esq. i
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.6.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMRN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 90
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Hignest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
Victoria: THE WESTINUHUUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobe!
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Ku 9 3
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. .. .. ~ 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 7! £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
“Bad Australian”: One sultry afternoon
an itinerant parson called at our camp, and
Quong Lee, the cook, ever hospitable and a
great respecter of parsons, after giving the
traveller’s horse a feed of chaff and oats,
led the holy man to the tucker tent. He
produced a cold leg of roast mutton, a bottle
of pickles, a loaf of bread and a pannikin
of tea. The parson bowed his head over the
THE WAY AV IT.
“Been out scrub shootin', Jan?”
“Iss, and shot a beauty great ’are. First time I shot un. I missed un; V second time
I shot un, I hit un; but when I rushed foorth to get un, theere ’e was — gone!”
food in silent thanksgiving, whereupon
Quong, touched upon his tenderest spot, de-
manded with much asperity: “Hey, Missitali,
w’at you look abou’? Alla time I keepem
tucker ’longa blan-bag safe-—gleen fly him
stop outsi’.” When the parson explained
Quong. feeling that he had made a first-
class bloomer and jolly nearly lost face, went
to liis tent and returned with a quantity ot
preserved ginger and lichee nuts, which he
added to the menu as a kind of peace-
offering.
* * * *
“Onambatutu”: I haven’t encountered
any of those monstrous tree-dwelling slayers
of men (B. 6/l/’32), but up in northern
I’apua where I used to lie we had some
diggers of a somewhat similar kind which
benoved one to be on his guard. In those
parts the crocodile is, as elsewhere, a magi-
cian of parts. Coming homo, perhaps from
hunting at dusk, a good-looking and unwary
youth is apt to be confronted as lie passes
through the gardens surrounding his village,
with a smiling and seductive maiden, always
near the edge of the water. Should he suc-
cumb to her blandishments, he is seen, no
more for ever. The lady is a disguised
crocodile, and long before his relatives have
ceased weeping for him he has been kai to
the wicked Imhaga.
i\: :J: s{c *
“FY7” : Reading “Morant’s” story of the
North Queensland sacred alligator (B.
6/1/’32), reprinted from an edition ot IS9O,
I w r as struck by the reference to the man
in charge of the station as “the super.,”
a title long ago superseded by "manager,”
yet invariably employed when writer was
a small boy in Western Queensland. . The
average out-backer accosted by some new
arrival at a station nowadays with the ques-
tion, “Where’s the super?” would naturally
associate it with phosphates, especially on
one of those up-to-date runs which go in
for top-dressing their pastures. I have often
wondered whether the title derived from the
old convict days, when it was applied to
those in control of the lags. Who hears a
bushman swear by his “Colonial cabbage-
tree” nowadays, and how often is anyone
asked to have a “nobbier”? Further, what
have the years done with the word “monkey,”
once familiarly applied to sheep?
*
“D. Nil”; In our little back yard is a
rough pergola carrying an old lady’s-finger
vine. Around the supports of this I have
built a carpenter’s bench of kerosene-boxes,
Several colonies of small black ants have
dug themselves in about the struts and stays
where these enter the ground, and for yours
they have lived in amity with all the world
—ant and human. There are no other
brands of ants nesting in our little yard,
and we rarely see any migrants. We were
passing through a moderate heat-wave. The
ants seemed to be unconcerned, and followed
their usual busy voyages up and down the
main posts until just before sundown ; glanc-
ing at the bench about then I found the most
furious battle going on that I have ever seen
fought by ants. No strange ones were con-
cerned —just two or more colonies of the same
variety engaged in a war of extermination.
HOPE FOR THE WORST.
“This game 'would try the patience of
a saint, Mr. Psmith.”
“Don’t you worry about the saints, Padre. They’re safe if they coma dodge the pit
half as well as you can.”
By the time I noticed them all the crevices
of the work-table and spaces between the
supports were filled by ants, dead and dying,
in masses a quarter of an inch deep. Bundles
of them rolled about, twos, threes and
dozens, dismembering one another in their
death-grips. About a foot away, on a
spread-out sack, an open battle was going
on ; hundreds of pairs, or parts of them, still
shearing junks off one another as long as
fhey could move a mandible. The extremely
few ants who were not at the moment fight-
ing were rushing frantically from one
section of the field to another carrying
dispatches; but from whom, or to whom,
one could not guess. The sun went down
upon their wrath and the night found them
still in solid seething masses, six, eight or
ten deep—slowly and implacably chewing
each other to pieces. I have seen many
ant-fights ; but this one was the Great War !
Whaffor ?
# * * *
“Gumblegubbin”; If you are looking for
the Damnation Saloon, take the road to
Alstonville, near Lismore (N.S.W.), Tenny-
son Smith was lecturing there under a banner
on which was emblazoned “The Damnation
Saloon.” He explained that it had origin-
ally borne the words “The Carrie Nation
Saloon”: —the sign of a booze emporium in
Texas (U.S.A.) which had been used with-
out Carrie’s consent. He offered it, as
amended, to any publican who would put
it ujs on his premises. He said he had
offered it in England. Scotland, Ireland.
Canada and the United States, and never
found a grog-vendor who was game to put
it up. O’Brien, of the Alstonville Federal
Hotel, accepted the challenge. The banner
boomed the business, and the name stuck.
s'* * $
“C.S.T.”: It was a small dilapidated
shanty, .surrounded by five acres of clearing
and a dog-leg fence, which made a pathetic
show of keeping in three cows and a weary
old horse. It was 20 miles to a one-store
police-station and pub township, and at
the three farms I had visited on a
long weary ride of four hours not one cocky
could see the virtues of my patent “burn-
only-air” lamp. Halfway ub the home pad-
dock I met a fine-looking young girl dressed
in a flannel shirt and ragged trousers.
While I was explaining my mission along
came another, dressed the same but a few
years older. They invited me to come info
the shanty and tell my story to the old man.
A soap-box was drawn up to the table, and
Dot, tne younger amazon, volunteered to wake
her parent. She was away five minutes, and
then came back to tell us the “lazy old cow
won’t budge.” "Can’t understand the old
bloke lately,” Min said; “he’s always lyin’
about and complainin’ of bein’ tired.” Time
dragged on, a goanna scuttled across Ihe floor,
a dog howled somewhere outside, the “burn-
only-air-lamp” was still burning, the girls
still gazing at the lamp, and I was getting
restless. “Yo'ur dad not awake yet?” I asked
Min. “No, not yet.” “He sleeps well?”
“Yes.” “How long has he been sleeping?"
“Oh, about two days.” Startled, I entered
the room. He was on a bed, a very ancient
bewhiskered and dirty individual, but wearing
a contented, happy smile. He was asleep all
right, but he would never wake again. Min
was at the door. “I’m going into town,” 1
told her; “I’ll be back soon.” I made a
jump for the horse. The trooper and a few
others came out, and “things were fixed up.”
Min and Dot had relations at Surry Hills.
I was returning to Sydney, so I offered to
shepherd them. It was one of those hot, weary
days which make second-class train travel-
ling an ordeal. Min and Dot both had
window seats; they sat there dazed. We
travelled four hours, and not a word had
passed their lips save an occasional “yes.”
Suddenly Min brightened up. Some fine
spotted gum-trees rose over the monotonous
flat paddocks. “Them would make good posts
and rails, Dot,” she exclaimed brightly. The
long hours dragged on and at last Sydney was
reached. A rush to Surry Hills, and I was
relieved of my charges. I left Min and Dot
telling their city relations of the wonderful
posts and rails they could have split from
those trees. Poor Min and Dot! I wonder
how they fare in Surry Hills!
* * sic *.
“Outback” : Here is a pathetic little con-
tribution to the Queer Accidents record.
Playing by a North Queensland roadway, a
nine-year-old youngster named Faux was
attacked by a magpie, which, with the in-
genious devilry of its kind, concentrated its
attack on the youngster’s bare legs. So en-
grossed was he in avoiding his spike-billed
adversary that the boy leapt into the road
in the track of a speeding motor-car and
was killed on the spot.
❖ ❖ ❖ :«c
“Baa” : What do they know of jumbucks
chat only Pitt-street know 7 ? A Sydney jour-
nal which professes to support one of Aus-
tralia’s greatest pastoral unions last week
chronicled the coming of a band of Japanese
buyers of Corriedale sheep. For its readers’
information, the journal added that the Cor-
riedale was a big-framed sheep, bred for
mutton and not for wool, and that it was
an English breed, though there were “sev-
eral” of them in N.S.W. The Maoriland
breeders who so many years ago evolved this
medium-sized, hardy, “double-purpose” sheep,
supplying both meat and wool of good qual-
ity, will be interested in the news. So should
the many Corriedale stud and flockmasters
in Australia.
OLD DAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Dan’s a mostly silent mra,
Who croaks, when tongues become effusive,
Some phrase or other tnat he’s heard
-And come to reckon as conclusive.
He sort of spits them through his pipe,
Dim echoes from an age forgotten,
As they were racy still and ripe,
Instead of being mouldy-rotten.
We get them ever and anon
Without a scrap of variation,
,\s honest Daniel’s only con-
Tribution to the conversation.
What nse a thrilling yarn to spin
The atmosphere of gloom to break up
When, at the close, Old Dan chips in
Derisively "An’ then you wake up!”
It cramps your style, when you would spread
Your firm belief and faith undoubted
That there are piping times ahead
When once this darned depression’s routed,
To know, if you should pause for breath —
No earthly power can prevent it —
You’re bound to hear, as sure as death,
A mildly mocking “Wish yer meant it!”
If Dan must be a blanket wet
In camp debates the general wish is
The poor old blitherer would get
Some newer—what d’you call them? —
cliches.
These whiskered, catchwords he should throw
Away for something smart and nifty.
He learned them forty years ago,
I’m game to bet, or maybe fifty.
Too old to change, he doesn’t care
That any audience finds them grating.
And when he climbs the Golden Stair
To breast the gate where Peter’s waiting,
And hears a cheery “Step right in,”
I.wonder what he’ll do anent it:
Obey the Saint, with grateful grin,
Or, slave of habit old. begin
His aggravating “Wish yer meant it!”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


PUBLIC FINANCE
Until this has been straightened out
private prosperity is not possible.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” for
February analyses the whole posi-
tion, and shows what has been done
and what remains to do.
Current balance-sheets dissected
by a staff of accountants, whose
work is at your service.
No investor can afford to be
without it.
“THE 'WILD CAT’ MONTHLY
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,, Adelaide,
Perth.
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and tin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 2/9 each, post free.
Sfie PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle _ 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case—
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/.
ALL POST FREE
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—jin. and Jin.
Each razor set ready for' use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge,
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
SMOKE-OH!
THE HAPPY HUSBAND.
Let satirists assail the iveddcd state;
I smile with scorn to hear them sneer
and wrangle.
When cynics have the impudence to prate
About what they describe as “the tri-
angle”
I laugh aloud. I hold- my wife's love still.
Ours is a sweet companionship that, stays
Through thick and thin, in happy times and
ill—
And we’ve been married now for four
whole days!
* *
Mr. Lang’s bull is becoming a stock joke.
* *
N.S.W.’s Crashional Anthem: “Lang to
ruin over us.”
¥ *
It is considered that if Ivingsford Smith
had contested East Sydney he would have
gone in flying.
* #
FITTING IN.
“Many of Australia’s defeated politicians are in
sore straits.”
Not a few, however, have settled down to
jobs suited to their special abilities. Some
have become social organisers and enter-
tainers ; these used to be known as “good
party men.” A few, noted for their talent
for striking attitudes, are posing in statuary
classes. Hundreds have obtained positions
as chewing-gum testers, being able to work
their jaws without fatigue for hours on end.
Several have become company promoters,
where their ability to make glowing promises
PHANTOM FRIVOLITIES.
WHITE CAT: “They say she confessed all her indiscretions to him before they married.”
BLACK CAT: “Heavens! What an imagination the woman must have!”
is seen to best advantage. Dozens have showm
a special aptitude for driving bullocks. But
the brightest success of all has been scored
by those who took up golf. Their talent for
escaping from difficult lies is said to be
astounding.
* ¥
“France has the finest air force in the world,
the finest army in the world. — “World.”
We always thought the Australian army
was the finest in the world. It is so fine
these days, you can’t see it.
* *
“Prosperity is just around the corner.”
But what tve want to know is : How far
off is the corner?
* *
WHY IS YOUR NAME MUD?
{With acknowledgments to the “Sunday
Sun.”)
If this is your name you can claim kinship
with one of the largest clans in the world.
Sir William Stick-in-the-Mud is claimed by
some to have been the original ancestor.
Tradition, however, gives a romantic genesis
to the name. An ancient king, who in the
vulgar tongue of the day was “as bad as
any Labor Premier,” heard that a
certain subject was grumbling at the taxa-
tion, whereupon he said, in the bastard
French-English which was then the fashion
and is still used by the cheap newspapers,
“It is mon hire” —meaning his reward for
being king. Contracted by use to M’iri
and then plain Mire it was altered in tlu:
eighteenth century to Mud. That is why the
name of every man who pays taxes to .Tack
Lang is Mud'.
Tlie name can be derived from any pay-
ment of tribute to bookmakers, publicans,
pawnbrokers and so on. That is why most
men’s name is Mud at homo.
* ¥
m 2 VERSION.
Poor little Miss M uffet
Sat there on her tuffet
And used naughty wards with a will.
On the roads, near and far,
Every sheik with a car
Had succumbed to Lang's Transport Bill!
AWAITING PUBLICATION.
Breeding Tin Hares as a Hobby.— M. Gos-
ling.
The Thrill of Stalking Lyons.— Earle
Page.
Palm, Oil: Its Commercial and Political
Uses. — Blowbags , M.P.
How to Teach a Game Bird Tricks.—,/. T.
Lang. -
Ships That Pass in the Night, Including
High Commissionevships,-—IF. M. Hughes.
¥
“Australians must face the hard road ahead with
eoura ge. ’’ — Syd>iey cleric.
The one we were on was loanly, anyway.
* *
“Tenor voices are most often found among people
who are chiefly pastoral in work.”— “&un.
It would take some delving to discover
a tenner now in pastoral work.
* *
WHY NOT?
Let’s make the Bridge opening a jolly
little affair with a homely appeal to all.
Eric Campbell might open the north end
and Mr. Lang the south end, one to win.
Dr. Bradfield could avail himself of. this
opportunity to make an official test for wind
pressure.
A N.S.W. business man who can show a
profit for the year to recite “The Last of
His Tribe.”
High diving display from highest point of
bridge, taxpayers to have sole right to select
divers.
Inscription for tablet: —
This cost just on ten million quids—-
God help our kids and their kids’ kids!
Concluding item to be an official test for
dead weight carried out by placing a given
number of men engaged in commercial pur-
suits in N.S.W. in the exact centre of the
bridge. If it can carry the load on their
minds it will carry anything.
McM.
* ¥
“She was fined £1 for ravelling in a railway
ca rri age. ’ ’ — “Herald.”
The knitting craze has much to answer
for.
* *
Some of our bowlers go to any lengths.
¥ *
STIR IN AUSTRALIAN MUSICAL
WORLD.
Laurels for Professor McOboe.
A delighted public listened with rapt
attention last night to Professor McOboe
conducting the first performance of his “Aus-
tralian Symphony.”
The opus was rendered with the utmost
skill by the Crematorium Orchestra.
The first movement is entitled “Australian
Industry— largo con inter ruptione.” The
opening is somewhat, unusual, consisting of
dead silence for 15 bars. The members of
the orchestra sit inert, staring into space.
This is the Civil Service motive. Then a
theme scored for 14 picks on road metal
was efficiently played by Foreman O'Flynn
and his gang' (hired specially for the per-
formance at overtime rates). After a while
the wheels of industry
proper can be heard
slowly turning, in a
low growling pass-
age for bassoons, cor
anglais and bass
strings. This orig-
inally occupied 48
bars, but the Trades
Hall had it reduced
to 44. After a little
development, the
hour of five is heard
softly chiming on the
xylophone, followed
by the factory
whistle motive fff in
a series of discor-
dant blasts from the
flutes and clarinets.
A glorious rushing
presto passage for
the full orchestra
follows—the scoot-
ing - from - work
motive.
After a gay In-
ter mezzo {“Five
Minutes to Six”) a
striking new theme
appears. This is the
Arbitration Court
motive, consisting of
rapidly rising scale
passages, a c c o m-
panied by the con-
tinual reiteration of
the money motive, a
rattling theme scored
for tambourines and
triangles.
Follows a decided,
if gradual, slowing
up in the tempo of
the wheels-of-indus-
try motive, which has been struggling along
all the time pp, transposed into a minor key.
The music becomes labored: it assumes a
darker and more sinister tone, gradually
working up into a horrible series of crashes.
This is the strike motive. In 17 amazing
bars each instrument is given a free hand
to play what it likes ; an effective passage,
which visibly affected the audience.
Then the Professor, with great sweeps of
his baton, restores some logic to the music,
and the slow but now uncertain turning of
the wheels of industry can again be detected
faintly amid the turmoil.
The Professors “Darlinghurst by Night,
andante con razor,” wall be given at a future
recital.
BEDTIME TALES FOR LITTLE
BUSINESSMEN.
Eric and the Dragon'.
Once upon a time there lived in a certain
city a terrible dragon. But there lived in
that city also a knight called Eric. He
wasn’t actually a knight, of course, because
he had an office in which he sat and thought,
and thought and thought about the dragon.
Now Eric had a nice new army which he had
made himself, and while he was thinking
lie would occasionally say to his assistant
army controller, “Go —send the army out to
KEEPING UP APPEARANCES—HER FIFTY-THIRD.
do something.” And the assistant would
issue orders —“Mobilise the army.” And
they would all get together and be sent off
to put out a fire, or something like that.
Eventually the knight Eric came out of his
office and spoke to all the people, and said:
“I'm going to write to the King”.... At
which the people heartily applauded, and
said (among themselves) “Now, who’d have
thought of that?” So the knight wrote:—
Dear King,—We’ve got a terrible dragon here
and can’t shift it. Will you do something about
it? —Yours despairingly, .Eric*
And the King wired back and said: —
Yes. Am sending army, navy, air force, police,
bombs, machine-guns and poison gas.... But please
see. that all bills (in connection with the victualling
THE GRIEVANCE.
THE FLAPPER: "Gee, Billy,
your father don’t look
his age, does he?”
BILLY: “No, an’ I’ve got to look
as if he don’t too.”
of this outfit) are settled promptly. And no funny
business. . . .
But, curiously enough, before this relief
force set sail someone (not Eric) sneaked
in on the dragon in his lair one night, and
stuck a pin in him—and he blew up! At
the same time it was found that all the
dragon’s following had blown up, too.
And that’s the end.
Oh ! and I nearly forgot, dearies, Eric was
greatly praised for what he had done, and
the people called a great big bridge they were
building The Little by Little Highway after
him.
Nighty-night.
* #
“Sunshine and laughter! You can hear the peals
all over the crowded beach!” — “World.”
The hot sun gives each naked hide
An agonising feeling;
So much so that on every side
One hears the scorched skin peeling!
* *
“Phar Lap’s running may be affected by his
arrival in California amid snow while his coat was
adapted to Australia’s summer.”— “Argus.”
But there’ll always be someone willing to
put a shirt on him.
THE SONG.
That thin monotonous singing was get-
ting past endurance.
He could not bear it much longer. The
window beside him gave on a drop of 50
feet. So strained were
his emotions that he
could imagine himself
fulfilling his threat
of a minute before.
He was sorely tempted
to throw the singer
through the window,
and make an end of
it all for ever.
He was on the brink
of action. Then he
remembered the stern
tribunal before which
the deed would bring
him. He could almost
hear the relentless
Judge sentencing him
to indefinite exile
from the happinesses
of life.
What would life be
without the right to
go where he wanted,
to play his game of
billiards and drink his
pot of beer, to smoke
his pipe and shout at
heat-stricken cricketers from the shelter of
the stand?
What indeed !
with a patience born of necessity he
turned to his task of persuading the singer
to stop singing, and boil sufficiently to let
him make his wife’s early-morning cup of
tea.


PRICES
GREATLY
REDUCED
to amazingly
low levels
EACH
29 * 4.40-21
Balloons for Chevrolets, Fords,
Rugbys, Whippets
is /w
WUST run your eye over
the Goodyear Pathfinder
New Reduced Prices listed
here—and see how little it
will cost to equip your car
with safe new tyres.
Have you ever seen tyre
values like these before?
No! Because prices have
never been so low, nor
quality so high.
When you buy Pathfinders
you buy tyres built with
Supertwist Cord—handsome
and strong long wearing
and trouble free.
You buy a genuine Goodyear
product made the Good*
year way to Goodyear stan-
dards, by Goodyear craftsmen.
Wh
Don’t risk trouble or perhaps life and limb on
threadbare tyres. One look at these new low
prices shows you it’s not worth while. Visit the
nearest Goodyear Dealer and ask him to show
the Goodyear Pathfinder to fit your car.
ħ
h
ĥ
C-31432
MADE
IN AU STRALI A


£5O Deposit! Balance over Two Crops
t
W)
I
ASTONISHING
OFFER. ON
FOKDSON
TRACTORS
IVTEVER before has there been an oppor-
tunity for farmers to secure Fordson
Tractors on such remarkable conditions as
are now offered. For £5O deposit you can
obtain an improved, all-British Fordson Trac-
tor from your local Ford dealer. And you
can pay for the balance, including freight,
over your next two crops. Only 5|% per
annum hiring charge will be made on the
outstanding balance. You can thus put the
Fordson to work on your farm with the
smallest possible outlay, and pay for it out
of subsequent earnings.
This remarkable offer, made by the Ford
Motor Company of Australia Pty. Limited,
for a limited period only, should be a help
and inducement to farmers who need a Ford-
son Tractor, but have not been able to buy.
The generous terms offered have been made
possible by an arrangement between the
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty.
Limited, and the Traders Finance Corpor-
ation Limited.
Every farmer knows that the all-British
Fordson stands alone in quality, adaptabil-
ity, economy and low price. Almost every
farmer needs one; yet thousands have held
off buying because they thought a tractor
was beyond their reach.
Now, when these remarkable terms are avail-
able, do not delay. Get in touch with your
nearest Ford dealer or Fordson distributor
immediately. Ask for full particulars of this
remarkable new Fordson plan and for facts
and figures of Fordson performance and
economy in comparison with an 8-horse team.
The cash price of the Fordson Tractor is £220, F. 0.8. nearest Ford
Works, Sales Tax Extra .
Book your order at once
FN.I4
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF' AUSTRALIA PTYi L T D s


WHEN MAKING YOUR WILL
REMEMBER THIS
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate'money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to :
Qg PRODUCERS & r CITIZENS
V COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director; H. Pell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, comer Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance tad
Agency Co., Ltd.
IT IS SO EASY
Just a stroke of the pen, the mere recording of a signature, is
all that is required for the establishment of a Savings Account
that may eventually mean more to you than any business
arrangement you have ever undertaken.
Of course, a Savings Account may not be commenced without
some money, but since a sum so small as 1/- will be accepted
as the first deposit, hardly any person, man, woman or child,
need be without this simple, easy and profitable aid to the
accomplishment of financial independence.
Record your signature now and‘start your shillings to working
for you.
(flbmmoirwealtl) Savmas JBankof Huslralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
EROSION OF WHEAT LAND.
“Grey Box”: The erosion going on in
N. S. Wales on light undulating soils calls
for prompt action. Government experts
blame the depletion of humus. I believe this
to be only a minor factor. Land farmed
under the old method —autumn-ploughed and
-sown, year after year-does not erode nearly
as much as where dry-farming is practised.
I blame the loose summer mulch.
We used to let the stubble lie during the
summer months .(which is erosion-time), and
we ploughed and sowed straightway during
late autumn. There w r as never any loose
surface during the critical months of January
and February. Under dry-farming methods
we plough during late winter, when the low
ground is often boggy and torn up for a
foot or more. During the storm season this
ground is bare and loose, frequently a mass
of drains, caused by the combine’s wide
points—the very condition which makes for
erosion. Given a couple of wet summers such
land becomes too broken up for our modern
farming implements to be used upon. We
must fallow, so what’s to be done?
These undulating farms generally run
sheep. Instead of wheat-fallow try the
wheat-oats-fallow rotation. This means a
bare fallow one year in three, instead of
one in two. Avoid as far as possible allow-
ing water in streams to enter the paddock;
there may be a hollow running into it. Put a
tank in it on the boundary; this will catch
a lot and also increase the -water supply. Each
winter shovel the rubbish along the topside
fence into the stock pad which is always
there, and which becomes a creek during
storms. This will let the water through the
fence before it accumulates.
If you control the paddock on the top
side don’t let stock eat it bare during the
summer-time. Bare ground runs w r ater very
quickly. If it is new land, level up any old
roads or drains running through it. Don’t,
plough hollows full depth; fill them in.
Always remember that, the aim is to prevent
water flowing.
BUNT IN WHEAT.
Frank Maddox: N.S.W. experts are
diminishing bunt without knowing the
cause. They wrongly give the credit to dry
copper carbonate treatment, wdiereas any
other bunticide would have had the same
result. Their advice to farmers is, shortly,
that bunt balls should be skimmed off, and
that a few* are immaterial if treated with
dry copper carbonate, that being proof
against reinfection. How r do they account
for the number, of crops free from bunt in
the wheat-growing competitions that had not
been pickled or treated in any way? They
cannot give dry copper carbonate the credit;
the true reason is the seed was free from
bunt spores.
The late William Farrer sent me speci-
mens of his then new crossbred wheats. I
noticed how free all his wheats were from
bunt, whereas samples I got from other
places were not. I had just previously dis-
covered that bunt balls wmuld stand the
strongest pickle and still cause reinfection.
Then it was that I advised the discarding
of all bunt-ball seed wheat, having come to
the conclusion that the quickest and surest
way to get clean seed like Farrer’s was to
grow it. I also started farmers’ plots with
this and other objects in view, but -was un-
able to continue them. In 1908, knowing
that formalin was no better than bluestone,
I approached the Vic. Department of Agri-
culture, to be told it knew all about bunt.
I retired again for another IS years, when
I received a kind letter from Walter S.
Campbell, retired N.S.W. Director of Agri-
culture (at that time a stranger to
me), urging me to make my discovery public.
This I did, thanks to some newspapers, and
offered it on a no-cure-no-reward basis, with-
out any result, so I think it is time to fade
away again. But I am pleased to say my
experiments are knowm now in countries
where I was never heard of before.
I never can understand why my advice
of 35 years ago to discard all bunt-ball seed
has been ignored; it is much simpler than
trying to discover a cure or to breed a bunt-
proof -wheat. The satisfactory results that
are now being obtained from the distribu-
tion of pure clean seed (wdiich is discarding
bunUball seed) are surely proving the value
of this advice. Dry copper carbonate is not
proof against reinfection. Under my method
it will be safe to sow seed without treat-
ment.
“GROW MORE LUCERNE.”
In South Aus., as in N. S. Wales, the
Department of Agriculture recommends
farmers to grow more lucerne. An excellent
essay on the subject, the work of W. -1.
Spafford, the Deputy Director of Agricul-
ture, was published in the departmental
“Journal” last year ; reprinted as a bulletin,
it can be obtained from the department at
Adelaide for a tuppenny stamp.
In Mr. Spafford’s judgment, “practically
all soils in South Aus. are suitable for the
production of good crops of lucerne, the
only exceptions being the rather sour soils
resting on a heavy clay, to be found in a
portion of the Adelaide Hills district, and a
small area in the south-east, where buckshot-
ironstone soils overlie an impervious clay.
The climate is everywhere suitable, but it
very high yields of forage are sought a mild
winter is essential. And in semi-arid parts
“full returns are secured only if irrigation
water is available, or if good underground
water is not too far from the surface. If
good underground water is to be found at
least 4ft. from the surface, and not deeper
than Bft. to 12ft., there is no need for much
moisture near the surface except for the
germination of the seed and the starting ot
the crop.”
Good seed is essential; from poor seed a
good stand cannot be got. “Only seed of a
really bright appearance should be used, and
preferably it should be a true yellow with an
occasional tint of Tight green, because this
is a sure indication that it was properly
matured and harvested in favorable weather.
If there is any suspicion that ‘hard’ seed is
present a germination test should be made.
Fill an ordinary saucer with sand, cover
it with blotting-paper or a piece of cloth,
moisten it with water, then count a given
number of seeds and place them on blotting-
paper or cloth. If the saucer is now placed
in a position where the variations of tem-
perature are not very great, the good seed
will germinate in from three to seven days,
and if those that germinated are removed,
it should be a simple matter to count the
others’ and calculate the percentage of ger-
mination.”
The ideal seedbed consists of very fine
soil almost free of clods, about lin. to liin.
in depth, resting on very compact under-
layers ; “compactness and smoothness at the
surface are the two essentials to ensure good
and regular germination.” Some Btjixe’TCN'
correspondents recommend broadcasting, but
Mr. Spafford greatly prefers drilling—in the
autumn for preference, though “in some few
localities, where the rainfall is light and the
soils of a more or less sandy nature, the
seeding can be done throughout the
even during July and August.” As for
quantities,: “Where full irrigation is prac-
tised about 201 b. of seed per acre should be
used; where irrigation water is used but in
limited quantity, and where the crop is
grown on good underground w r ater, as m the
country between Burra and Mannanarie,
about 121 b. to 151 b. per acre is sufficient;
on the sandy land overlying underground
water at 6ft. to 12ft., as at Naming and
around Lake Albert, 9lb. to 121 b. per acre
is enough ; on heavy-textured and calcareous
wheat lands, 61b. to 81b. per acre will giv*
good stands; on the sandy wheat-growing
soils of the Mallee, 41b. to 61b. per acre will
provide much forage for a number of years.”
in good lucerne-growing conditions “2cwt. of
super, per acre can be drilled in with the
seed, and a reduced quantity for other con-
ditions, right down to about fewt. in sandy
soils where the crop is only to last four or
five years.”
If the soil is deficient in lime, a dressing
of about 2 tons per acre should be applied
berore seeding. Autumn-sown lucerne needs
no after-seeding treatment except to cut
weeds once in the spring. On heavy-tex-
tured land, there should be very thorough
cultivation at least once each year. Light-
textured lucerne land does not need the same
cultivation, but plenty of harrowing does
much good. All forms of farmyard manure
stimulate lucerne crops, and super, should
be applied annually at cultivating time.
The writer of this valuable pamphlet
devotes a chapter to the lucerne flea. Their
presence is denoted by the fact that plants
lose their green color and take on an ashy-
grey appearance. When the fleas are noticed
the crop should immediately be cut, or fed
down rapidly, and the land should be sprayed
with about SO gallons per acre of a mixture
of 101 b. arsenate of lead, 2 quarts of nicotine
arsenate, and 500 gallons of water. The
lucerne should not have stock put on it for
at least three weeks after spraying, otherwise
severe scouring of the animals might result.
MANURIAL IRRIGATION.
“Old Zooloug”; In the course of a long
life on the land nothing lias more impressed
me with its neglected significance than the
effects obtainable (especially on sandy,
“thirsty” soils) by irrigation with muddy
water. Having to depend for domestic sup-
plies upon a race out of a creek, I find it
necessary to turn off such muddy water
before it reaches the service tank. Where
such overflows have sunk into the sandy
slopes, the improvement in quantity and
quality of herbage is more than I have ever
witnessed as the result of applying artificial
fertilisers. Particularly is this the case
where the inuddiness originates from a good
red clay, though one would rather expect
the run-off of enriched surface soil would
be the better.
From my observations I am convinced that
the application of a good clay in this manner
would prove more effectual and lasting
than that of even an equal amount of com-
mercial super. Arthur Young’s works are
full of records of the wonderful results of
the application of such underground clays
to suitable surfaces. With the coming of
artificial manures such results were first
ignored and then forgotten.
WATER-ROT IN WOOL.
“Mulgatown”: I have had some slight
experience in handling wool described by
“Murrawong” (B. 23/12/’3l) as “sometimes
yellow, but mostly a bright green, with varia-
tions of orange, brown, purple, and even a
deep red.” I recently had 16 samples show-
ing different-shadings, and sent them on to
a friend w T ho I thought could tell me all
about it. Alas! his answer was the inevit-
able “weather conditions.” “Murrawong”
gives practically the same answer.' Without
having any scientific knowledge on the sub-
ject, I venture to differ.
With over 20 years’ ; experience among
wool I have come across extensive discolora-
tion on three occasions only—three follow T-
ing years on the same property.' On the first
occasion over 10 per cent, of the fleeces were
affected. Discoloration started from the
back of the head, and continued along the
withers and down the back, in some cases
right down the ribs, but very seldom on
the flanks. The same thing happened the
next year, but not quite so extensively, and
a fair amount came along this year. The
first year was abnormal in the matter of
rainfall; in the second year, although the
average was up to standard, for the first six
months after shearing the rainfall was below
normal; the third year -was practically
normal. In each year, by examining fleeces,
one could follow out the approximate date
from shearing when the discoloration started ;
some fleeces showed colors from three
months’ growth, others varying right through
up to as long as 10 months’ growth. This
would appear to uphold the bacterial theory.
But I class for three adjoining properties,
and not one discolored fleece turned up on
any of the three.
The matter has been a puzzle to me for
a long time. Although I have talked the
question over with many people -who have
had considerable experience with wool, no one
has been able to tell me anything definite
about it. They all murmur vaguely about
“weather conditions.”
If any reader knows of any scientific
article on this subject I should be very glad
to be put on to it. My own theory is that
discoloration is due to a combination of
weather, .undergrowth .and timber on the
property, possibly assisted by the drink-
ing water, which in some paddocks here is
heavily mineralised.
THE CAREFUL FARMER.
“Evan Dale” : I know a Vic. farmer who
refuses to sell his oats under 4s. to ss. a
bushel, nor his hay at less than £4 to £5 a
ton; and he rarely fails to get his price. He
depends entirely on his local market and
in years of plenty, /when neighbors are striv-
ing to get rid of their chaff and oats, and
driving prices down to bedrock, this man is
quietly storing his crops. The hay is
stacked on substantial mouse-proof stands,
made with stout stringy bark blocks and
stringers of the same timber —if the blocks
are tarred they are capable of lasting half
a lifetime —and the oats are dumped loose
into bush-built silos. In the, latter case so
much attention to mouse-protection is not
given; mice, capable of doing untold damage
where grain is packed tightly in bags, find
the shifting mass.es of grain in bulk not to
their liking.
Great care is taken to guard against depre-
dations of the weather. Stacks are protected
with straw thatch —cut with the binder after
the harvester has done its work; oat-bins are
covered with galvanised iron. These pre-
cautions are necessary because sometimes five
to six years elapse before the next drought
cycle comes round. Then my friend
reaps his harvest. Often he is hard put to it
to meet the demand.
Some brand him a profiteer. I call him
a district benefactor. In years of drought
many head of stock are saved with the fodder
thus thoughtfully put by. The price at the
worst is governed by the law of supply and
demand ; and, anyway, brains the world over
have to be paid for.
RABBIT-POISONING.
“Pine Scrub”: Thistle-root poisoning (B.
27/l/’32) is an art, but it can be learned.
First, wash the baits after cutting them up
and don’t handle again; bunny does not
like our body odor. Then dry the baits in
the sun —two to three hours in the winter
before adding the sugar. They will still
contain plenty of moisture and the sugar
will bring it out. Rabbits do not take wet.
sticky bait freely. Next add the vanilla
and any other dope you fancy; last the
strych., stirring the lot until baits are well
coated. When laying, handle baits with a
pair of pliers made from a piece of No. 8
wire with ends flattened out so as to grip.
If the weather is hot, delay laying the trail
until late afternoon, as the roots quickly
shrivel in the sun.
“Cass" does not state how many baits
were prepared from five teaspoonfuls of
strychnine. We experimented last winter,
commencing with S(JO baits to the ounce
bottle, gradually increasing the number to
1800. We finally fixed on 1500 as showing
no waste and as sufficient to kill the rabbits
near the trail, making the collection of
skins easy. Every rabbiter has his own
particular dope, and it is not considered
etiquette to ask particulars. Sandalwood
oil and oil of cummin are both popular. It
is better to buy the vanilla from the chemist,
as the household essence is not sufficiently
concentrated.
STORING LEMONS.
“W. 0.” : Here’s a way of storing lemons
that I have tested and found good in south
Westralia.
The fruit w T as picked w T hen it was per-
fectly dry, on a fairly -warm day at the end
of October. It was cut close, leaving no pro-
jecting stem, with the scissors-type of snips,
which make a clean cut (that, I think,
assists keeping), as distinct from the pineers-
type. Gloves were worn and all fruit was
handled gently—put, not thrown or dropped,
into the cases or buckets. It was sorted into
three sizes into shallow boxes (dump cases,
opened on the flat) ; each case was lined
with newspaper and covered with a double
thickness of paper. Cases were placed one
one top of the other, that containing the
smallest sizes being on the ground, not on
battens; and were stored in a lean-to with an
open front, built on the south side of a brick
house, allowing plenty of air to circulate
round cases, but not round the fruit.
The lemons were picked in various stages,
from almost green to almost ripe, and were
stored for two months of a heat w r ave,
December averaging 89. The fruit opened up
perfectly colored and cured; there was no
sign of waste or mould, but one or two were
tree-rubbed, and small ones had dried up. I
got up to 10s. 3d. per f-bus. case for them.
The highest Perth price for lemons marketed
at the time these were picked was 4s.
SUMMER CABBAGES DON’T PAY.
“R.X.8.” : Bowral, 82 miles south of Syd-
ney by rail, is famous not only for its climate
bu L for its cabbages. An area of at least 15
square miles, with an altitude of 2200-odd
feet, a free volcanic loam and a good rainfall
provide ideal conditions for vegetable-grow-
ing. But it is sadly reported that a Bowu-al
grower received three penny stamps as a net
return for a 4-ton lot of cabbages. Economic
factors, high freights and the new Transport
Act must all share the blame; but the truth
is that summer cabbages never have paid.
The summer crop faces hot days and an
irregular rainfall. Pests and diseases are
at their worst, and with one thing and
another a 50 per cent, cut must go to a
market already glutted with other forms of
green vegetables. The winter crop has the
cool days and autumn rains. Pests and
diseases have exhausted themselves; if not,
the first frost will attend to them. A9O per
cent, cut is welcomed on a market that is
short of greens and that pays handsomely
for cabbages.
Why grow summer cabbages at all? If the
winter crop is followed by a quick-growing
crop, such as millet, that can be burnt off
to provide a nice supply of ash, the ground
is in fine form for a crop of potatoes. Manis-
tees, Factors, Brownells or Up-to-dates are
best for cabbage climates. And why follow
cabbages with peas and beans ' when you
can’t compete in the glutted summer markets
to get a reasonable return? Certainly these
crops supply the nitrogen the cabbage is so
hungry for. Twelve years’ experience of
cabbage-growing has convinced me that fer-
tiliser is the cneaper and better way of doing
it.
If cabbage-growers would stick to the
winter crop, replace the summer stuff with
spuds, and use fertiliser liberally instead of
growing peas and beans, they would have
little to growl about if the season played
fair.
(Land Page continued on page 26.)


r
i
„
4
S
h
. i
Nv!
! ™
■
Soft-lined and supple
Its glossy calf upper is smoothly lined
with soft leather. . . .there are stout
elastic ankle-pieces to preserve resili-
ence and close fit... . and the sole is
of the toughest leather obtainable.
In design, too, this Abbey Riding
Boot offers exclusive features. Made
on a special Abbey last, the upper
is shaped in a curve where it lies
over the instep arch. There’s no
strain anywhere. The boot draws on
easily. . . .fits with perfect smartness
and comfort.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings are
available in all sizes. Specify width
and length, and order, also, a tin of
Abbey Preservative Polish (6d.), or
a compact cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF . . 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street and 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 267.
Die_Aystra[ian Art Exhibition
'THE MACLEOD
I Bulletin I?uifdinqs 1
| 252 Georqe Street. I
&P- v °
See announcement page !3.
•mini
%
Vita*
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed .think of
ħ
SCHUTE,
BELL& O ua
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
< Personal Attention.
Office^: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane '"Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified -advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an ecbnomic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
FARMERS...
aL. RuralTopics.Dairying.
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
fl Horticulture. Veterinary
1.. Notes Etc ....All in ..
■THE AUSTRALASIAN
■ ON SALE ALL STATES 62
"DIAMOND
RADIO B BATTERIES
0< TORCH REFILLS
7\(eu) esfyeiior' •* r s *
ISLAND
HOLIDAYS
at concession rates !
Why spend holidays locally when Pacific.
Island Holiday Tours cost less ?
EXCURSION FARES:
SUVA, FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days .... Ist Class Return, £35
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva . . Ist Class Return, £75
Seven-weeks’ Tour 2nd „ „ £55
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Twenty-three Days’ Tour. .Ist Class Return, £45
Via Wellington, N.Z. .. . 2nd „ „ £34
PAPEETE, TAHITI.
Via Wellington and
Rarotonga ... Ist Class Return, £55
Seven-weeks’ Tour ..... 2nd „ „ £4O
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney;
59 William Street, Melbourne.
and Union Lines
\\
THE FARM WORKSHOP.
“Mulyan”: Every sheep and cattle station
has a smithy and workshop, and every farm
should have the same. The farm, in fact, has
more use for a smithy than the average
station has. Ploughshares, picks and crow-
bars need pointing from time to time;
swingle-bars must be remounted, broken
chains and hooks repaired, shoes removed,
simple breakages in farm implements,
vehicles and machinery mended. The work-
shop should be not less than 20ft. by lift.
Roominess is always convenient and economi-
cal, in that time is not. wasted as in a smail
place where everything is jumbled and
crowded. Forge and anvil represent the chief
outlay, the rest of the equipment being small
tools that can be added from time to time.
Bellows a man can put up for himself with a
few stones or bricks, or, if he has no heavy
work to do, he may buy a poi’table forge.
The anvil is set up on a solid block on the
left side of the forge (looking towards it)
and held in position with a few stout nails.
Also needed are a small hammer, a medium-
sized sledge-hammer, a couple of tongs,
cutters and punches. From a small bar of
steel you can make more cutters and punches
for yourself; the chief difficulty at first is
in tempering them. For the work-bench you
require a vyce, a cold chisel, claw-hammer,
tomahawk,- blacksmith’s rule, spanners—or a
strong wrench and footprints—and a set of
taps and dies. You may also instal, at a later
period, a drilling machine, a hacksaw,
shoeing tackle (knife, rasp, pincers and light
hammer), and a soldering iron. Some wood-
working tools are necessary, too. but one or
two can be got at a time as jobs occur.
With the blacksmitliing outfit a man can
make eyebolts for gates, split links for mend-
ing chains, and so forth; and such jobs can
be done at night or on wet days. The work-
shop. when there is nothing to be done
in the barn, is a good place for wet
Weather, and it can always provide a money-
saving job of some sort. It finds use for
scraps ofxiron, old tyres, rusted bolts and
cast shoes that would otherwise be wasted.
Have a scrapheap in the corner behind
the bellows, and throw there every piece of
old iron that is picked up, but keep shoes
by themselves, and have a box for bolts and
nuts. Also, keep all tools in their proper
places so that there is no exasperating hunt
for this -or that when it is wanted.
Laying a ploughshare, or welding two
pieces of iron, or iron and steel, are jobs
that require experience, but with practice on
rough work the handy man may advance to
a home standard of efficiency, and he has then
practically mastered the art of station black-
smithing. The two pieces of iron should be
brought gradually and simultaneously to a
uniform white heat, keeping them clean and
free of clinkers. At the right heat they weld
easily, but. quickness is necessary. In his
first attempts the amateur will probably burn
the iron, or make the part that is joined too
thin ; wherefore it is best for him to practise
on old waste stuff in his spare time.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Can molasses be fed to horses? (2)
Where can molasses be purchased in Sydney ?
(3) What is the value of bran as a feed for
horses? —7882.
(1) Yes, combined with concentrates and
bulky food. (2) J. T. Lawler and Co., 141
Sussex-street, and G. Brandon and Co.,
230 Sussex-street. (3) Bran is fairly
rich in protein and certain minerals,
particularly phosphorus. It is also a valu-
able laxative; usually it is mixed with oats.
On the right foreleg of my horse a swell-
ing has occurred, owing to a recent fall. It
is soft and flabby ih nature and not sore, but,
the leg has become very stiff. What should
be done? —7Bo2.
Cold-water treatment is best. Tie the
horse up short and tie a hose on to the fore-
quarters above the injury in such a position
as will enable it to dribble over the injured
part night and day for 21 days. The horse
should not be allowed to walk about, as it
will retard recovery.
One of my heifers recently was served by
the bull at nine months of age. (1) Is this
too young? (2) Will it check growth? (3)
Will it check milk production? (4) Will the
calf be properly developed at birth? (5)
Any special treatment or ration that will
be beneficial to either? (6) At what age
should a heifer be served by the bull? —7B6B.
(1) Yes, but it need not necessarily have
bad results. (2) Yes, but this can be over-
come by drying her off about three months
after ealving and not putting her again to
the bull till a year after calving. (3) No.
(4) No reason why it shouldn’t. (5) A
ration of lucerne chaff, bran and maize meal
for the young cow, to be continued until she
calves again, even when she is dry. (6)
Jersey heifers at 15 months. Illawarra
heifers at two years.
(1) Has the tung-oil tree been grown in
Australia? (2) What, are its commercial
possibilities here? (3) Where can plants
or seed be obtained? —7904.
(1) Yes. Details of 10 years’ experiment-
ing are contained in the “Tung Oil” bulletin
of the Technological Museum, Sydney, price
Is. (2) and (3) Sydney Technological
Museum can advise you.
(1) Is it possible to make an income of
£4 to £5 per week keeping a flock of 400
to 500 hens of good laying strain? (2)
Would it be advisable to purchase as pul-
lets, just about to commence laying? —79l7.
(1) Under present conditions it is un-
likely that more than £l5O to’ £2OO per
annum could be obtained from 400 to 500
layers. (2) It would not be possible to
purchase good pullets coming on to' lay at
a price which would show a profit.
What proportion of tallow should be added
to earth in making pise buildings, as recom-
mended in an article on the Land Page (B.
13/1 /’32) 7—8025.
When preparing the mud and tallow mix-
ture for walls, take dry earth, well broken up,
and use not less than 5 per cent, of tallow.
Make a dump, hollowed in the centre, tip
the tallow into it, and pour in sufficient hot
water to make a stiff batter. The hot water
melts the tallow and causes it to permeate
evenly through the whole dump. Mix it up
with a hoe in the same way as mortar is
mixed. Choose earth that sets into a hard
mud. A heavy clayey soil, though rath :r
hard to work and to get the tallow evenly
through it, is the best. When properly mixed
the tallow gives it a smooth surface.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bidgeewidgee”: Pigs should never be run
among poddy calves, uor where their drain-
age can pollute the latter’s water supply.
Their excrement usually contains germs of a
form of diarrhoeg particularly fatal to calves.
“Pine Scrub”: 1 prophesy increasing popu-
larity for the Ryeland amongst fat-lamb
breeders. Ryelands resemble the Southdown
in shape, but are white-faced and larger.
Their wool is inclined to be harsh and
straight, but is finer than that of other
Downs breeds, and they cut well. I saw lambs
last spring, first Ryeland-mcrino cross, and
they were as shapely as could be wished—
an ideal fat-lamb type. At two months they
cut 12pz. more than merinos of the same age.
Reared on natural pastures they were sold at
four months in the paddock as fats, making
top price for the district.
“Dimon”; Before storing skins, such as
sheep pelts, give the flesh side a wash over
with a solution of arsenate of soda and
water, lib. to a gallon, boiled together.
Another cheap mixture is made with |lb.
of arsenic and |lb. of soda crystals to lgal.
of water. Apply either with a brush when cold.
“Karaway”: Many samples of lucerne
hay bring poor prices on account of a high
percentage of barley grass and other growths
being mixed with it. Barley grass usually
grows along the edges, particularly along-
side gullies and creeks, and the seed gets into
the lucerne stand. The grass is good green
feed, but deteriorates the quality of the hay. It
should be cut down before it seeds, and when
the stand is sprinkled with it or other foreign
growths, the mower should bo put over it
before the weeds flower, and the crop used for
green feed or silage. A couple of cuttings
may be necessary to clean the stand, but
better that than getting small returns for
inferior hay.
“Bidgeewidgee” : Pink-eye seems unusually
bad this summer, especially among dairy
stock. After trying all the standard rem-
edies, such as boracic solution and zinc sul-
phate, I find the following as good as any
and much easier to employ than liquid solu-
tions : Mix 1 part boracic acid with 2 or
3 parts sugar and put a liberal pinch of this
well into the eye as soon as the trouble
begins. This is the most important part of
the treatment, as no remedy has any effect,
after the disease is fully developed.
“Wen”: In north-west N. S. Wales
graziers have lost sheep through inexperi-
enced jetting. The mixture recommended is
31b. arsenical compound to lOgal. of water.
the pressure for full-woolled sheep should,
as a rule, be 1201 b.; for freslily-shoru
animals it should be adjusted at the jetter’s
discretion. In all cases, thoroughness is
more important than speed.
“Chromo”: To keep Babcock-test bottles
clean, shake them while emptying after a
test; you must mix up the whitish sedi-
ment which collects on the bottom. Then
rinse with warm soapy water containing a
little washing-soda, and finally with warm
w r ater, inverting on a rack to drain. In
the case of very dirty bottles, use a cleans-
ing solution composed of loz. sulphuric acid,
loz. potassium dichromate and a pint of
water. Pour aqjd slowly into water (not
the other way about), dissolve potassium
in the acid solution (don’t use a metal
vessel), bottle and cork when cool. Fill
test bottle with solution, warmed up, let it
stand an hour or longer, and empty solu-
tions back into bottle. Rinse with cold
water and drain.
“W.P.M.”: This is my method of erect-
ing wire-netting in hilly country (B.
30/12/’3l). I unroll the coil, with the long
edge in the trench — i.e., nearest the fence —
and if crossing gullies pull 50 yards at a
time. There is no necessity to strain at
every post—it only knocks the netting about.
And don’t strain by pulling a bar against
the post; this ruins the netting. To strain,
run a piece of lin. pipe through the mesh,
first looping a short length of No. 8 wire to
pipe centre. Now hook one end of your
strainer to this last wire, and the other end to
the middle wire in the fence; then gently
strain and shake the netting up and down
to take out the slack. Don’t overstrain;
any little slack can be taken up by tying
a little closer to the posts ; use tie-wire, not
staples. In crossing sharp gullies it always
pays to let the netting pull above the ground
and tie a strip of 12in. netting on the
bottom. This keeps the height on your
fence, as gullies always silt up against the
netting. On level, or fairly level, country,
strain 100 yards at a pull by shaking up and
down to ease it along.
“Tangaloli”: Far better than a nail-
brush is a quarter-pound of horse-hair from
the tail rolled up to a ball and sewn with
needle and twine until it is pretty compact.
Used with soap and water, it will last for
years.
“Easy”: Instead of breaking your back
pulling cabbages, cut a forked stick, about Oft.
long, with the fork 3ft. long. With one good
jerk, cabbage and stalk will come out clean.
“Wodgil” : What does it cost these times
to grow a bushel of wheat? The N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture tried to work
the thing out two years ago'. It says in
its latest report: “Calculated on an average
yield of 17.9 bushels per acre of wheat
actually harvested for grain on the farms
covered by the calculations, the average cost
of production, 192§-29 season, worked out at
3s. 11 l<j. per bushel. The North-Central
Plain, the North-Western Slope, the Central-
Western Slope, the South-Western Slope and
the Riverina were included in the investi-
gation, and in those divisions approximately
89 per cent, of the State’s total wheat yield
was produced.” But thousands of N.S.W.
farmers did not get anything like a 17.9-
busliel average, and 3s. llld. a bushel seems
excessive, even for a State in which, in my
opinion, -wheat land has been outrageously
dear. Obviously there is no money in wheat-
growing at present prices, and if costs can’t
be brought well below 3s. a bushel there
will be nothing in it for anyone except
dealers and shipowners. Cost-of-production
figures ought to be published in every wheat-
growing district after every season, even if
they refer to one farm only. There is a
great dearth of precise information on this
subject.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Ex-Digger, clerical, newspaper, customs and navi-
gation exp., wants work. Refs. —8022.
Young woman, Q’land, well educated, desires posi-
tion as companion, town or country.—Blo6.
Young girl (18), S.A., leaving school, desires a
position as governess or journalist anywhere in S.A.
Intermediate certificate and four leaving subjects.—
8029.
Trained general nurse, Q’land, seeks engagement
aa invalid attendant, housekeeper or travelling com-
panion. Go anywhere.—Bo44.
Gentlewoman, single, Vic., over 50, will read and
write for person losing sight in return for home.
Refs.—Bo64.
Author of “Mirror” serial would like to hear
from person or society willing to criticise or stage
an original three-act drama for a cast of seven,
with one interior scene. —8062.
To buy second-hand invalid tricycle chair. State
full particulars, K. M. Dallas, Detention River, Tas.
To buy “Elements of Electricity,” by W. H.
Timbie.—Bo26.
To exchange H.M.V. gramophone, cost £62 10s.,
for writing-desk or loughboy.—Bo32.
Words of “Not Understood.” —8013.
Vic. reader will exchange illustrated papers with
readers in M.L. and Australian States. —8136.
To buy Roth’s ethnological studies and Spencer
and Gillen’s “Native Tribes of Central Australia.” —
8135.
Information Sought.
I am plagued with rats on my cocoanut
plantation, and want to get rhl of them, I
am told that on Lord Howe Island they had
the same trouble and imported owls. Any-
thing known about that experiment or any
other method of catless rat exterminations?
—8043.
The Lord Howe Island Board of Control
reports that about 100 barn-owls were
liberated there, and have been helpful; but
hunting, trapping and shooting are still
necessary.
My galah parrot, 15 months old, has been
eating his feathers since he was six months
old. Cause and cure? —7774.
Feather-picking is due to wrong feeding.
Confine diet to fruit, lettuce, cracked corn,
thistles and occasionally an apple or pear
core. A little cod-liver oil should be dropped
on the cracked corn. Give the bird a hard
stick to play with, clip a wing and permit
him to wander round the garden.
(1) llow to make malt from Cape barley
for brewing ale? (2) How to make yeast
for same purpose? —7Bo9.
(1) Pile a heap of barley on a stone slab
or in an enamel tub and moisten it with a
watering-can. Keep it in a warm place,
damp, and stirred daily, until it begins to
sprout. When the sprouts are about an
inch long, rake it apart to dry a little, then
bake it quite dry in an oven. Make a fresh
batch for each brewing. (2) Boil a handful
of hops in one quart of water for 20 minutes,
or until the hops fall to the bottom ; strain
and cool. Blend three tablespoonfuls each
flour and sugar with a little of the hop water,
then stir all well together. Bottle, cork and
tie down, stand in a warm place. Ready
in 24 hours. Thereafter use the same bottle
for fresh yeast.
(1> Literature concerning the Ljclande cell?
(2) Does this cell possess a high ampere-
hour capacity? (3) Has it any connection
with the present day caustic-soda cell? (4)
Literature dealing with the subject of the
caustic-soda cell? —7888.
(1) Very little detailed literature avail-
able. The original Lelande et Chaperon cell
is not greatly used, although it still survives
in Europe. Its negative pole is zinc amalgam ;
its positive pole, copper; excitor, caustic soda
and in some cases caustic potash ; depolariser,
cupric oxide. The voltage of the cell is only
0.8 as compared with the Leclanche, which is
1.5 volts. (2) Depends upon the size of the
cell. It gives a very steady current and its
internal resistance is much lower than most
cells. (3) The present day alkaline secondary
cells are probably derived from the original
Lelande. In 1901 Edison patented a
secondary cell, which he named the Edison
Lelande, and there can be no doubt that the
Edison secondary cell is the outcome of this
patent. (4) “Alkaline Accumulators,” by
Grennell and Lea.
(1) Can an invalid with considerable
property but, owing to mortgages, depression
and depreciation, no net income, obtain an
invalid pension? (2) Amount of pension?
(3) Where to apply?— 7B62.
(1) Where a pensioner has property, other
than the home in which he resides, the rate
of pension otherwise payable is subject to a
deduction of £1 for every complete £lO by
which the net capital value of such accumu-
lated property exceeds £5O. (2) Maximum
rate £45 10s. p.a. (3) Deputy Commissioner
of Invalid and Old Age Pensions, Chalmers-
street, Sydney.
(1) What are international reply coupons?
(2) Where obtainable? —7953.
(1) These coupons may be exchanged in
any country of the Postal Union for a post-
age stamp representing the postage of a
sfngle-rate foreign letter. They are valid
for six months, exclusive of the month of
issue. Their cost is 4d., but Imperial reply
coupons, which may be used between any
two countries in the British Empire, cost
only 24d. (2) Sydney G.P.0., or any of the
larger post offices in the Commonwealth.
(1) Who were the “suprematists ” in
art? (2) What do their pictures represent?
—BOl7.
(1) They belonged to a school founded
by Casimir Malyevitch. previously a cubist,
(2) They renounce all attempt to represent
any scene, object or definite idea ; only color
is treated objectively.
(1) How many Australian soldiers were
killed or died as the result of war service
between 1914 and 1918 V (2) How many
were wounded? (3) How many were other-
wise invalided? —8015.
(1) Killed in action, 40,232; died of
wounds, 13,262; died from other causes,
5852 ; died prior to embarkation, 936 ; total
deaths, 60,282. (2) Wounded (including
those died of wounds and wounded on more
than one occasion), 153,557. (3) Approxi-
mately 400,000; many were invalided more
than once.
Correct tuning of a tiple ( 10-string
ul-iil el p. l "? 7919
The tiple is tuned to the .same notation
as the ukulele, the most common of which
is first string to A, second to E, third to
C, and fourth to G. The first string is the
furthest from you when the instrument is
held in playing position. The stringing on
the tiple is as follows : First string, two plain
wires; second string, three strings, the out-
side strings plain, the centre covered wire
and tuned an octave lower; third string,
two outside strings, plain wire, second
string covered wire of heavier gauge, tuned
an octave lower ; fourth string, two strings
one plain and one covered, the covered
string being tuned an octave lower.
(1) Difference between real and personal
estate? (2) Is probate payable on an estate
left to charities ( particularly in Vic.) ? (3)
Should a person die, would probate have to
be paid on an estate that is being held in
trust- for him?— 7997.
(1) “Real” applies to lands and interests
arising thereout, and “personal” to goods and
chattels, and, generally speaking, interests
not connected with land. (2) Not in Vic.,
but provision is made in certain respects in
Federal legislation. (3) Yes.
How to play blind euchre? —8084.
Three, four or five players may participate.
Use the 32-card pack, dealing as in regular
euchre, except that two cards (the blind)
are dealt, face downward, to the table just
before the trump is turned. The eldest
hand has the privilege of taking up the blind
and discarding two cards from his hand. This
is equivalent to ordering up the trump.
Should the eldest hand pass, the next player
to the left may order up and take the blind
into his hand, and so on around until the
trump is ordered or taken up, or all players
pass. After the blind is taken up and trump
is taken up by the dealer, the play is as in
the regular game of euchre. In case all the
players (including the dealer) pass the blind,
the hands are discarded and a new deal is
made, the deal passing to the left.
What is the difference in meaning bettveen
the words “hues,” “tints” and “shades” and
how should they be used? —8078.
Hues are colors. Shades are various deep-
nesses or richnesses of a particular color, and
a tint is a more or less faint shade or over-
lay of a particular color.
I have been told that the Mt. Hypipamee
crater, Herberton ( Q. ), is not a true crater.
Is that correct? What is the explanation of
its peculiar shape? —BoB2.
According to J. H. R’eid, Queensland Gov-
ernment Geologist, in the strict acceptation
of the term it is not a crater. It is an
immense elliptical cavity apparently descend-
ing to a great depth through enclosing vertical
granite walls. The water in the cavity lies
from 100 to 200 feet below the rim of the
granite cliffs. It once formed a pipe forced
through the granite by molten lava and its
present position is much below what was the
level of the orifice of the pipe, which may
there have formed a true crater. The lava
filling decomposed more quickly than the
surrounding granite, hence the deep cavity
now occupied by water, which doubtless
covers the stump of an old volcanic pipe.
What is a split infinitive? —8040.
An infinitive is split by putting an adverb
between the word “be” and a passive parti-
ciple (particularly “to”), as in “to still be
allowed,” or between “to” and any verb,
as in “to seriously consider.”
I intend to build a boat for family use on
the Yarra. J 1) What is the best timber to
use, kauri being unobtainable? (2) Should
it be carvel or clinker-built? (3) What is
the largest ■boat that could be driven by a
Ford-car engine? Speed, is no object. (4)
Is a Ford engine suitable? (5) Any books
or drawings to be obtained in Melbourne? —
8100.
d) Borneo cedar or Huon pine. (2)
Clinker. (3) About 50ft. long. (4) Yes,
if geared down considerably to reduce pro-
peller speed. (5) Try and get hold of a
copy of Dixon Kemp’s “Manual of Yacht
Design,” which is old but reliable..
I have been asked to paint some scenery
for an amateur theatrical society. Are there
any special rules to be observed hi the prim-
ing of canvas, paint and brushes used? —
8037.
The canvas, whether on flats or on battens,
should first be primed. Whiting can be
used with lib. of keg size to a gallon of
priming. It should be applied warm with an
ordinary two-tie brush, just sufficient being
used to cover the canvas. When using flats
go right up to the edge of the wood. Suffi-
cient priming should be made for the whole
flat or cloth to be done in one operation.
For the scene-painting use kalsomine, with
just sufficient size to keep the color from
rubbing off. In painting small areas, mix
the color into a paste with size, then work
from a solution of weak warm size in a
bucket, mixing the color on a palette board.
The brushes to use are: painters’ tools for
exteriors, flat brushes for interiors, and
artists’ brushes for detail.
A concrete four, laid in Feb., 1930, teas
given 10 weeks to dry. Linoleum over gaper
felt has rotted up to six feet from wall.
Paper felt lias disappeared. Climate dry, but
garden outside kept well watered. (1) Is
damp the most probable cause? (2) 11 ill
waterproofing cure the trouble? (3)
Method ?—7893.
(1) Yes, and it is likely, to go on causing
trouble if the concrete mixture is of a porous
nature and no damp course has been laid.
(2) Give the floor a coating of paving paint.
When dry, cover with ruberoid or similar
material fastened to floor with the mixture
provided by dealers for the purpose, and
when quite dry cover with linoleum. A line
of hardy small shrubs close to the walls will
assist in keeping the floor dry; plumbago,
hydrangeas, bougainvillaea or privet are
suggested.
Is perspective employed in a mural paint-
ing differently from what it is in an easel
picture? —Bo36.
An easel picture is painted to be look 'd
at from one point of vision only, and the
artist generally uses this point of vision in
obtaining his perspective. A mural paint-
ing may be anything from 10 to 50 feet m
length and is observed from various stand-
points. Because of this the artist must
arrange his perspective so that it will look
reasonable from all possible points of vision.
For instance, a building in violent perspec-
tive in the close foreground on the right of
a mural would look wrong to’ a person view-
ing it from the extreme left. Therefore acute
perspective aspects are avoided.
(1) Recipe for spray to destroy household
insect pests? (2) How to use same spray
as a polish for baths, taps, furniture, etc.?
Is it inflammable? —7982.
(1) Mix together 1 drachm oil of eucalyp-
tus, 2oz. benzine or petrol, 2oz. turpentine and
enough kerosene to make the whole up to
IGoz. (2) For cleaning baths or metals, use
the spray either alone or as a moistener for
powdered whiting, according to the metal;
for furniture, rub on with a piece of flannel,
and finish off with a little beeswax polish
and a silk duster. It is highly inflammable.
My bouvardias, notv 12in. to 24in. high, are
beginning to flower. Bhyould I cut the flowers
off and not let them bloom till about April?
—BOll.
Let them flower and remove the spent
heads ; fresh laterals will soon appear. Under
proper treatment bouvardias will bloom
nine months of the year.
(1) Can a motion moved at a public meet-
ing be withdrawn, and ivhat is the position
of an amendment before the meeting? _ (2)
Would a chairman be correct in permitting
debate upon whether the motion should be
withdrawn or not? (3) Can a seconder of
a motion ask for a motion to be withdrawn
or his seconding of it withdrawn? —8083.
(1) A motion can be withdrawn by the
mover with the consent of the seconder and
with the agreement of the meeting; but if
an amendment is before the meeting the
motion cannot be withdrawn until the amend-
ment has been disposed of, either by the
mover thereof withdrawing it (his seconder
and then the meeting consenting) or by its
being put to the vote in the ordinary way
as air amendment. (2) No. (3) No.
I am an elderly man and am moving to
a warm climate. Whilst visiting the spot
to where I am doing a few years ago I had
heat-stroke. What precautions should I
take to ward off a recurrence? / take a
fair amount of alcohol, and am a big meat-
eater? —8081.
During hot weather everything which
tends to lower the general health, such as
insufficient rest, dissipation, great bodily or
mental fatigue, etc., should be avoided. It
is unwise to’ expose the uncovered head,
neck or back to the direct rays of the sun.
Within buildings, the freest possible circu-
lation of air should be allowed. Overcrowd-
ing should be avoided. Openwork screens
or blinds kept wet may be used for cooling
the air entering the building. Observe the
strictest moderation in the use of alcohol.
Pure fruit drinks containing little sugar
should be taken freely. Light diet, with
fruits and vegetables, is advisable. Very
little meat should be eaten.
(1) Where can I learn photographic re-
touching? I live at Broken Hill (N.S.W.).
(2) Is it possible to learn by post? (3)
Cost of tuition? (4) How long would it
take? (5) What openings are there for
retouchers? (6) Wages of a retoucher? —
5968.
(1) The best place to learn is a photo-
graphic studio. (2) Yes. (3) Fee varies
with teacher. (4) Depends on aptitude of
pupil. (5) Very few at present, but there
is always room for proficient people. (6)
Award rates are £2 6s. 6d. for a woman and
£4 Bs. 6d. for a man. Get in touch with
Miss Sykes, photographer. Broken Ilill, and
,T. Farr, secretary, Professional Photograph-
ers’ Association, Cniden Studios, Pitt-street,
Sydney.
What flowering bulbs grow well in pots?
How are they grown? Do you recommend
growing them in pots in a warm climate?
—8077'.
All the stronger-growing daffodils, hya-
cinths, tulips and freesias do well in pots,
and the method is particularly suited to a
warm climate. Only selected bulbs should
be planted—6 bulbs in a 44in. pot, 10 in a
6in. Fill bottom of the pots with pieces of
broken pots, and use rich, fibrous, loamy
soil, mixed with a little sharp sand. Plant
buIDS with crowns an inch below surface,
well water and place pots in a cool shady
position, where they may remain till tops
have begun to show; then move into a
sunny situation.
(1) What are the objects of the Society
of Authors, Playwrights and Composers (In-
corporated), London? (2) Subscription?
(3) Address? —8076.
It was founded in 1884 to represent, aid.
assist and protect authors. It has to-day
more than 4000 members and an income of
about £7OOO p.a. Its activities include the
examining of contracts and agreements sub-
mitted ; investigation of accounts, and advice
as to the disposition of cinema, broadcasting
and performing rights. If legal action is
necessary, with the consent of the committee
a member’s claim is supported and costs are
borne by the society, which protects the
literary property of its members in all coun-
tries. (2) £1 10s. p.a. (3) 11 Gower-
street, London, W.C.I.
Brief Ansvirers.
D.T.R. : Federal award rates for station-
hands are 635. lOd. per week, without keep ; 425. 6d.
per week' with keep ; or, if engaged by the day, 11s.
Bd. per day. Cooks who are required to work seven
days per week are to be paid an additional 7s. Bd. per
week... .R.S.P.: Write Under-Secretary, Dept, of Ex-
ternal Affairs, Canberra. .. .A.E.S.: McKay and
Lane’s “Co-operative Marketing” (325.), Webb’s
“Co-operative Movement in Great Britain” (6s. 6d.),
Angus and Robertson. .. .A.H.M.: Get in touch with
Sampson Tool and Machine Co., 57 Henderson-road,
Alexandria... .L.M.H.: The lucerne should be sub-
divided into small paddocks. Rings in the pig s
nose are not recommended. .. .T.M.M.: Not promis-
ing. The three lines you mention are all repre-
sented in China, Japan and the Malqy States....
J.F.P.: (1) He was born in Canada. (2) Because
of climatic reasons. They are seldom found above
54deg. north lat. (3) Write to the Burns Club, 89
Phillip-street, or the Burns Anniversary Club, 10
Rawson-place—-both Sydney. (4) Biogiaph Opera-
tors’ Union, Sydney, may be able to tell y0u....
J.D.W.: “Australian Short Stories,” compiled by
George Mackaness, was published in France under
the title of “Nouvelles Australiennes” and was issued
by Albin Michel, 22 Rue Huyghens, Paris
y.j.S.: “The Art of Theatrical Make-up,” by Caven-
dish Morton; “The Art of Make-up,” by Helena
Chalmers; and “How to Make-up,” by S. J. Adair
Fitzgerald. .. .ILF.: The cheapest way is to cut up
the nest with a mattock, and pour in plenty of boil-
ing water. A surer way is to make small openings
in the nest and pour in a little carbon disulphide,
stepping on the openings to close them up when
treated. Vapor will penetrate and kill the
ants. This chemical is highly inflammable,
and its fumes are poisonous. .. .E. 8.: (1)
The mark is a registration mark used by many of
the Staffordshire potters, and refers to the design.
It was generally used from about 1870 to the end
'of the century, and is of little assistance in deter-
mining the name of the maker. (2) Can’t express
an opinion without seeing it. We can find no
record of this artist, and he probably was not in
the first class.... C.R.C.: Advertising in connection
with the N.S.W. State lotteries is not permitted
in Vic J.R.: (1) Full details in the University
Calendar, obtainable from the Sydney Uni. (2)
The architectural profession is as overcrowded as
any other, and prospects of improvement are not
bright. . . . J.T.L. : Can’t trace the agency. .. .F.J.P.:
We don’t know of any opaque substance which will
transmit ultra-violet waves. .. . A.P.: There is no
rule on the subject, but the innings is usually
classed as a “not out”. .. .E.F.8.: Could not say
without inspection. .. .J.H.R.: Get in touch with
the Dept, of External Affairs, Canberra, also Burns,
Philp and Co., Bridge-street, Sydney. .. .B.O.: Irre-
spective of hemisphere, the sun’s motions in the
heavens are the same. In the Northern Hemisphere
it rises daily farther north from Jan. to June, and
in the Southern Hemisphere it does likewise... .J. 8.:
Write Federal Taxation Office, Bursary House,
Hobart (Tas.). .. . E.N.F.: (1) No reliable figures
are in existence. (2), (3), (4) and (5) The Ser-
vice Dept, does not enter into religious controver-
sies.... R. 1,.: (1) Write Pensions Dept., Repat.
Building, Chalmers-street, Sydney. (2) Dept, of Labor
and Industry, Sydney, .. .S.M.G.R.: See article “Our
Bloated Public Service”(B. 9/9/’3l) ... .E.M.L.: (1)
They are separate and distinct jurisdictions, Rabaul
being in Mandated Territory, but provision is made
for enforcing in Rabaul judgments obtained at
Port Moresby. (2) It would be wiser to instruct
a solicitor to represent you. (3) Binding if both
parties agreed to it... .E.A.P.: Not in your favor,
but she can constitute you her executor and trustee
and dispose of the estate among her children, who
could maintain you if they made a family agree-
ment to that effect. Why not explain fully and apply
for certificate ? The way would then be clear on your
discharge for your wife to make a will in your
favor... . J.C.D.: (1) The principle laid down by
the English High Court is embodied in our Federal
Bills of Exchange Act. (2) The collecting bank
is liable... .II.B.: Leave no food about at night, and
cover or enclose all foods so that they are ’roach-proof.
Paint all cracks and wevices with a mixture of borax
and hot turpentine; when dry, fill the crevices with
unslaked lime. Make up the following bait and lay
it about the kitchen in shallow tins: 370 z. borax,
9oz. starch and 4oz. cocoa well mixed together.
Place a few tin-lids of water handy... .H.8.J.P.:
Dukes, 20 ; marquesses, 27 ; earls, 134 ; viscounts, 74 ;
barons, 434 (not including Scotch and Irish peers,
except the few representative ones who sit in the
House of Lords as such) ; baronets, over 1500,
including Scottish and Irish; knights, nearly 4000.
. ...E.J.N. : Take a few quarts of the wine, strain
it, and place over a slow fire. Add sugar to it
gradually and taste it to check the sugar so that
it does not become too sweet, then heat till the
sugar is dissolved. Skim if necessary and strain
again. If this is palatable, the wine can be used
by treating similar small quantities as required;
it will not keep if much is done at once. If it is
unsuitable for drinking, use it as vinegar or throw
it away.. . .M.D.: (1) Prospects are not good, but
there are people who can make almost anything
pay if they like the work. (2) Not less than 500,
and as many more as you can get. (3) Advertise
for them, approach some of the city and better
suburban libraries for their seconds and unwanteds,
and try leading booksellers, who often have cheap
remainders to sell. (4) Income tax and labor regu-
lations, if help is employed. (5) About £2OO
in hand after first purchase of books; much depends
on individual and amount of rent. (6) Most disap-
pointing, except as a side-line in the winter months.
.. . . A.H.T.L.: The destruction of ticks in the garden
or bush is practically an impossibility. A spray
of kerosene emulsion might destroy some. . . . A.A.A.:
At June 30, 1930, the population of Australia was
6,438,999. The strength of the permanent civil
service (States and G’wealth) at the same date was
214,079, or approx. 33 per 1000 of population....
S.H.D.M.: Can’t make comparisons of that nature.
Get in touch with the wholesale houses. .. .P.M.: A
letter addressed care of The Bulletin will find
him... .W. 8.: (1) Yes. (2) Commonwealth Sub-
Treasury, Commonwealth Offices, Sydney... .W.W.H.:
Write J- Y. Shannon, Rodney Downs, Ilfracombe,
Q’land... .D.A.: No competition is being held at
present... .L.P.N.: Try advertising, or fossick round
among the second-hand booksellers... .11.J.G: Can ley
Yale soil should be suitable for strawberries, but
not for grapes. You’ll need a good water supply.
Get bulletin “Strawberry Culture” from Agriculture
Department, Sydney A.V.Iv.: You are entitled to
a reduction of 224 p.c. on whatever rent was being
paid on June 30," 1930 J.C.: (1) Provisions of
the Moratorium (Amendment) Act 1931 apply only
to agreements made before the commencement of
that Act. In such cases the purchaser might at any
time within three months after Sept. 1, 1931, rescind
the agreement by notice in writing to the vendor.
(2) The provision for cancellation of sales has
no application to mortgages. (3) and (4) There
is nothing to prevent you giving your wife power
of attorney. (5) It would have to bear stamp
duly and costs of conveyance (Many others
mailed.)


Blue North
BY Mrs Drecke-Brockman.
Synopsis: In 1876 “Handsome Jack"
Fordyce, a Westralian squatter, is
advised by an acquaintance, John
Collins, to leave his extravagant and
discontented wife, Euphemia. For-
dyce sells his place, settles an allow-
ance on her and buys the schooner
Sea Sprite. His departure for the
Blue North in search of pearls and
freedom is delayed by six Irish poli-
tical convicts escaping through
Collins’s agency in the American
whaler Catalpa, Clearing Fremantle,
the Sprite makes good passage to the
Gascoyne River, and lands stores for
Fordyce’s cousin, Edgar, pioneering
the district. Through him Fordyce
gets native divers, including Nguri;
and, sailing, reaches Cossack. Bella,
the handsome barmaid at Mark’s pub,
seeing Fordyce, is attracted.
CHAPTER V ( Continued).
BELLA’S curiosity swelled to a lively
interest so rapidly that she dragged
herself away from the window. She
crossed to an old ship’s mirror hanging on
the wall and admonished her reflection.
“You’ve done with all that, Bella,” she
whispered. “No man is worth getting into
a fever about.” Yet she studied her face as
she spoke, Avondering if the pallor of her
cheeks were as attractive as the old color
had been, and wishing she possessed some
rouge.
The new gown! Perhaps the stranger
had come from Fremantle and brought the
mail! At any rate, she would tell Mark she
felt too tired to work until to-night. He
could look after the bar during the day,
and the newcomer could behold a resplen-
dent Bella when he came in, as he was sure
to do, with all the lads in the evening.
Baia was getting too possessive—she must
show him he couldn’t do just as he pleased
with Bella!
John went on un to the store, where he
met Mr. Coffey and was introduced to the
storekeeper’s wife. He drank tea in a
room -which managed, despite bare wooden
walls and sparse furnishings, to remind him,
much to his annoyance, of Euphemia. He
hadn’t reckoned on meeting women in
Cossack. But plump little Mrs. Coffey was
delighted, though full of apologies for the
primitive entertainment she was obliged to
offer Mr. Fordyce. A member of the For-
dyce family of course? The little fat lady
in her old print dress, courageous enough
to follow her husband up into the wilds, to
endure without complaint the heat and
discomfort and loneliness of the rough life,
could certainly not be compared to
Euphemia, yet John Fordyce found himself
wondering if women were all alike.
“A store, indeed!” said the lady, making
conversation. “I often ask Mr. Coffey what
is the use of a store without any goods in
it. We have been sold out now for two
weeks. And when we get rid of the goods
you have brought, Mr. Fordyce, it will
doubtless mean another wait. All so irregu-
lar! The Government Resident has only
recently arranged for me to look after the
mails; before they were left about any-
where you pleased. There is no law and
order about the life up here,” she sighed.
“I find that somewhat attractive,” re-
plied John with his easy laugh.
“Men do, I am much afraid. Until I
came here with Coffey there wasn’t a woman
in Cossack. At least, I mean” She
paused and blushed, finding her tongue had
led her to an awkward avowal. “Of course,
I speak to Bella at the hotel and the others,
but I can’t be friends with them. It is veiy
difficult. Only when any of the ladies come
out from Roeboume do I get a bit of
company.”
“Are there many there?” asked John,
more for something to say than any interest
he felt in the matter.
“Very few. Most of them live lonely
lives, too—out on stations surrounded by
hostile natives. This is not a good country
for women. I always thank the good Lord
he spared me any daughters! Not that
I’d leave Coffey or complain to him, for
he loves it—heat and all—but it is a very
rough life.”
John was glad to escape into the outside
air. Mrs. Coffey’s estimable person de-
pressed him even more than her living-
room. He felt as when, a small rebellious
boy, his mother dragged him in to be
washed, dressed in his best clothes, and
sent into her drawing-room. Yet he had
loved his mother passionately; and ever
since he grew up had been as susceptible
as any other man to her sex. But why did
they always want to chain a man; chain
themselves, too, if it-came to that! He had
loved Euphemia first for her slim white
hands and something light about her, like
a bird. A bird—a canary in a cage who
wanted him in the cage with her, too! Oh,
women! To-morrow he would take the
Sprite out on the noon tide, away into the
Blue North. He would be free.
In the afternoon he walked up creek to
where the squatters had erected a rough
landing-place, whence lighters carried their
woolbales to schooners riding at anchor in
the Roads. A little wooden stage crouched
among the mangroves. Sandflies toi-mented
John, so he clambered to high land and
looked away across an enormous marsh,
cutting Cossack from wide plains, where
conical hills rose sharply scarlet and purple
in the light of late afternoon.
Suddenly John found himself surrounded
by a herd of goats; a bearded veteran
barred his progress.
Terror gripped Sophie Gannet as she saw
old Bunter make a run at a strange man.
The majority of the pearlers had nothing
but pleasant words for, the child, yet she
heard them shouting and swearing at night,
and more than once had been sent by Ma
to fetch beer from a crowded bar. Mark
and Bella were always kind to her, but the
noise, the red faces and loud, rough voices
of pearlers and squatters haunted Sophie’s
dreams like a nightmare. What wmuld this
man say to her for letting a billygoat rush
him?
He punched the goat so hard that Bunter
remembered his manners and departed after
the nannies. Then he turned to Sophie and
swept off his hat with the same careless
gesture which had so captivated Bella.
“Doesn’t he like new faces?” he asked
smiling down.
“None of us see very many, sir,” she
answered shyly.
John wondered how the slight child with
soft voice and grey eyes—eyes too large in
so thin a little face—ever came to be herd-
ing goats on the rocky hills of Cossack. A
blackfellow’s job that—if ever there was
one!
“What is your name, my child?”
“Sophie, sir. Sophie—Gannet.”
Before he could pursue his inquiries
further John’s attention was distracted by a
cavalcade coming across the marsh. Here,
in fact, was what he had often heard
rumored in the South. Three men rode
beside a string of natives, flicking naked
black backs with the lashes of their whips;
the natives were linked neck to neck by
a heavy chain, and as they drew nearer
John noticed three young gins amongst
them. In front rode a big man, straddling
his horse with a kind of conscious male
superiority. He turned constantly to yell
remarks across his shoulder to the follow-
ing riders.
“That’s Baia Budson,” came a small
whisper beside John. “He’s got some more
poor lubras again! The devil!”
John glanced down at such astounding
vehemence. Sophie’s hands flew to her
mouth and her grey eyes dilated in horror.
She stared at him like a rabbit at a snake.
How had she come to let such a thought
slip out? Probably this man had come to
hunt natives for his own pearling'!
“Isn’t he kind to them?” was all he
asked.
“Kind! There isn’t a binghi for a hun-
dred miles round who would go willingly
with Baia. He thrashes them, and he never
comes back with as many as he takes, sir.
I don’t know what happens to them, but
I’ve heard Peter say” She broke off.
What Peter said was evidently too horrible
to tell. “Poor things!”
“I’m glad I got my boys further south,”
said John more to himself than the child.
“After all, they are human.” The chains
made him think of Mr. John Collins and
the convicts. There was something degrad-
ing about fetters. Imagine a fine fellow
like Nguri chained like a miserable felon
for no reason than that a white man desired
his services! “Baia?” said he. “What a
strange name. What does it mean?”
“It’s native,” replied Sophie. “And
I don’t know!” But her hesitation, the
flush which stained her pale cheeks told
John she merely did not wish to tell him.
“Well, run along, little one,” he said
pleasantly, “or you will be losing your
goats.”
Sophie looked round startled, then with
a swift “Good night, sir,” ran after the herd.
Whilst John wandered about Cossack and
Wilson saw to discharging of cargo and the
slow business of filling the watertanks from
shallow wells whence the natives bailed the
water, Bella went over to see Mrs. Coffey.
Her gown had come. Here at least the
women trod on common ground, and the
storekeeper’s fat little wife was loud in
admiration. Together they discussed the
change of fashion visible in the first new
garment either had seen for a year. Mrs.
Coffey told Bella she felt sure it would
become her mightily, yet the whole time
wondered what her dear mamma would
have said could she have seen her daughter
conversing so amiably with a young woman
who was no better than she should be.
“Mr. Coffey sent a runner in to Roe-
bourne with the mail, and to tell folks the
goods had arrived.”
“And Mark got a new hogshead of Eng-
lish beer, as well as whisky and rum. There
will be a crowd out to-night.”
“Yes,” sighed -Mrs. Coffey. She knew
thaf meant some of Coffey’s best clients
would drag him down to Mark’s. There
would be a crowd—thirty or forty at least
—and Coffey would stagger home at dawn,
whilst the others wandered off to sleep on
the marsh or ride somehow back to Roe-
bourne.
“Well, I’ll be going, Mrs. Coffey,” she
heard Bella say. “I’ll wear it up to show
you soon.”
“That will be nice, Bella. Good night.”
The young woman walked away with her
parcel under her arm, wondering if the
new man would come in to-night. Mark
said he had only dropped in to see about
the cargo and had gone off up the creek
after a solitary drink. Surely he would
return to-night—he didn’t look a milksop!
Mrs. Coffey, turning to leave the wide
verandah of her house, caught sight of
Sophie and the goats. How she wished
that old harpy who lived with the Gan-"
nets would stop turning the child/Mfo a
drudge! She must speak to Coffey again
about taking her away ancient
pair. Only Coffey—like a plan—hated to
interfere, and as like as not tvould only say
again that to all intents and purposes the
child was the captain’s daughter, and, even
if he had lost his wits it would break his
heart to be parted from her. Men had no
sense. Sophie was a dear little girl; and it
was no less than downright criminal to
leave her where she was.
“Sophie,” she called.
The girl awoke with a start. “Yes, Mrs.
Coffey?”
“Why haven’t you been to your reading
lesson with me the last two evenings?”
“It was Peter. Madam; he doesn’t seem to
mind in the daytime, but won’t let me
out of his sight after dark.”
“Try to get away to-night, my dear. I
will be alone and would like you to come.
What a nuisance of Captain Gannet!”
She never dreamt the old half-witted man
saw even more clearly than herself an ever-
increasing need to shelter the growing girl.
An uproarious welcome greeted John For-
dyce when he walked into the bar that
night. He beheld more than one familiar
face amongst the men who crowded round
eager for news, agog to hear about the
escape of the Fenians already discovered in
“Inquirers” posted to one of the squatters.
His old friends clapped him on the back and
ordered drinks; new friends shook him
hard by the hand and drank his health.
Chaffing each other, shouting with laughter,
swearing and boasting, the crowd swarmed
through the low, dark bar,’ lit by ships’
lamps, where two magnificent carved
benches stood side by side with deal cases
doing duty as seats. Behind the bar, Mark,
clad smartly in clean shirt and blue
trousers, worked like a maniac; he was
assisted by a native with no more than a
dangerously-worn pair of trousers hiding
his nakedness. One of the men sat at an
old walnut piano which had found its way
to Cossack from the hull of a wreck in
the Creek—although how a piano ever came
aboard that schooner no man knew. Neces-
sarily its tone had suffered. But a fellow
who knew something about such things had
been found to fix it up, and Bella could
play no end.
Where was Bella? Mark cursed her with
vehemence. The girl was getting too fond
of doing just what she pleased these days.
Bella sat in her room, waiting till the
native Whisky, bribed by a stick of
tobacco, found time to run out on some
pretence and whisper through her door.
“That one new pfeller come, Missi.”
She paused on the threshold of the
smoke-dim room. The man at the piano
caught sight of her, and, just as though
it had been staged to please her, he
commenced to sing “For She’s a Jolly
Good Fellow!” The chorus swung back in
a deafening roar. Bella’s black eyes glit-
tered. Could anything have been nicer
than this effective and unrehearsed en-
trance? “And so say all of us, and so say
all of us.”
“Good old Bella!”
“Give me a rum, darling! It’s so much
more flavorsome than when old Mark slops
it out.”
“Our Bella!”
'Here’s to Bella!' One after another
the men greeted her. There was no doubt
about her popularity. To many she re-
presented the entire white feminine world,
and they liked her because she was a good
sort.
“Hurry up and lend me a hand,” cried
Mark. Bella’s questing glance met the
lively blue eyes of John Fordyce above a
sea of heads. She had meant to give him
a provocative smile; instead she turned
hurriedly to Mark. She felt, she thought
wildly, as though the world had suddenly
turned over and tipped her heart right into
her throat.
CHAPTER VI.
Bella makes up her mind; and Baia
Budson is sent to play ninepins.
What a night! Mark worked till his shirt
stuck to his back. Drink and smoke and
song; chorus rattling the lamps in their
sockets. Her new gown made Bella a bright
target among the dull throng of men.
Bodice and front panels of lilac satin were
laced in ruchings of violet silk; an enormous
bustle, almost in panniers, formed back and
sides of a wide skirt, fashioned from stiff
pink brocade starred in woven violets and
embellished by more rows of ruching.
Bella’s black eyes flashed as she tossed the
curls from a hot neck; she did not need the
assurance of a dozen eyes and lips to con-
vince her of her looks. She felt magnificent
—from the moment when, regaining control
of her emotion, she found John Fordyce
still watching her. She was not to know
that, chiefly he enjoyed the incongruity of
her appearance in such a garment in such a
place. Her gown appeared to him exactly
like one Euphemia had ordered from
London for the May ball at Government
House. More lavishly cut certainly, and
Bella’s charms were of the lavish variety
as well. He watched her at the piano as
she played all manner of songs and dances
with astounding masteiy. Her abandoned
touch fascinated him. Surely that tight,
low-cut bodice must soon give up entirely
its shallow pretence of hiding so generous
a bosom! In the midst of gleaning useful
information about the pearling-grounds he
found~~Tiiinself glancing again and again
towards thexpiano, just to be certain the
satin still endured such strain.
Baia Budson ckme in; hung for a time
over Bella as though to warn all-comers he
w T ould brook no rival. But he tired of that
before long and cam<\ across to the bar.
John Fordyce beheld in, him a man fine-
looking in a gross wayx very broad of
shoulder and narrow of hip. He drank
enormously, and despite the strenuous life
he led was beginning to show signs of fat,
as yet a mere, sheath through whiqh his
huge muscles, clearly defined, fought
his clothing; but all the time John felt
conscious of the man’s body underneath
his singlet and belted trousers. It would
have been just the same, he surmised, had
Budson happened to wear a frock-coat.
Thin lank hair, brown eyes in a square
brown face, and thin lips shadowed by a
fierce moustache—hardly the face John .had
expected, having heard a bookful of stories
in the short half-hour before Budson’s
entrance.
Yet the brown eyes held a hunted look,
restlessly turning from one to the other,
always in search of some fresh diversion.
He -was not still two moments together.
If his loud voice rang out in rough words or
boisterous guffaw, he lapsed to silence no
less startlingly. A disconcerting person-
ality; a slave driven by his own nature.
John soon decided that. The fellow’s rest-
lessness gave the key to some inward goad.
No wonder the natives named him “The
Hungry.” “And they don’t mean hungry
for food, either!” explained John’s infor-
mant with a knowing leer.
Everyone was ready to tell John all he
should know about pearling. He soon learnt
the fleet was down on the western grounds;
that so and so had been lucky with pearls,
and somebody else had lost a couple of
divers. Gins both of them. Also it
appeared there was a suspicion afoot that
the Government Resident had written down
a strong letter about the way some of the
pearlers treated their natives.
“Why?” asked John. A momentary
silence hushed his corner. “What do you do
to them?”
Baia Budson overheard his question and
turned with a roar!
“Do to them! he asks. My God, what a
thing to ask! What do you think, my dear,
good-looking Johnnie or whatever they call
you? Treat ’em like innocents out, of
a ladies’ seminary? Those filthy black
brutes! They get what’s good for ’em. A
lot of dogs!”
“Shut your ugly mouth, Budson!” re-
torted a man at John’s elbow. “We’re not
all as bad as you! You’re enough on your
own to give the pearlers a bad name.”
“Oh, I am, am I?”
“You well are! You’ll make Mr.
Fordyce think we”
A flush sprang to Budson’s cheeks. He
advanced truculently and John beheld a
fight looming.
“Mr. Fordyce, indeed! Who cares what
Mr. Fordyce thinks? The sooner Mr. For-
dyce finds out he’s in a country where a
man does as he damned well likes and no
questions asked, the better for him!”
“I am glad to meet with that assurance,
Captain Budson,” answered John smoothly.
“ ’Tis the very reason for which I came
pearling.”


Amusements,
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. 0. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Trank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: BLUE ROSES
(Commencing Saturday).
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
COMMENCING SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 20.
Brilliant revival of
CHOCOLATE SOLDIER
With GLADYS MONCRIEFF.
KING’S THEATRE:
COMMENCING SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 13,
THE BARRETTS OF WIMPOLE
STREET
With MARGARET RAWLINGS.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN TRANSMISSION
MECHANISM FOR MOTOR-DRIVEN
VEHICLES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 3346/17 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, 67 York Street, Sydney.
For Sale.
DELIABLB Printing Machinery for Urgent
and Imperative Sale: includes Furnival
Double Royal, £100; English Linotype,
£150; Heidelberg Platen, £125; Pearl
Platen, £2O; power stitchers, sundries, as
now working at HARRIS & SON, Printers,
175 George Street, Sydney. Tel.: 85380.
h
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Oauitieid,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
IS THE HIGH EXCHANGE RATE
NECESSARY FOR AUSTRALIA?
This important question is considered in last
Saturday’s issue of
“THE BARRIER MINER.”
It is worth looking at from different points of
view, apart from what we think is our indi-
vidual interest.
“The Barrier Miner” is published at Broken
Hill every day, and is read by everyone in both
town and country every day. Metropolitan
newspapers are not needed by the Far West
people.
■{A. R A>-
/
m.
mr savings on
s
Life and Probate Policies
issued by the A.P.A.
now include this unique
benefit.
Surgical operations are usually
a matter of urgency. . . .the
opportunity for arranging the
necessity arises without warn-
ing, and there is seldom any
domestic finances to meet the
emergency.
v>
dfr |
r
('I
V
ite
#
o c
s
hen it’s the savings which suffer. . . .and only those
who have experienced it can realise fully what a hole
s left in the bank book by an operation, with all its
attendant expenses.
V If there are no savings on which to draw, what
V are the alternatives? A public hospital, or the
\ necessary operation delayed or avoided with
\ serious, if not fatal, results.
\ The corner coupon will bring information
V of vital importance to every family....
\ it will free your mind from worry and
\ anxiety, and show you the solution of
\ an ever-present problem. Fill it in
\ to-day and be wiser to-morrow.
//
*/
'V''
*
% %>
V e
r?
<*>
<o V%
>i, O/ <fy
°%
%
Q
t>
%
■<&
\\\°/ %
°o* Op
• ■•• *<
<: •%
TU e Booklet Tells You How !
The Australian Provincial Assurance
Association, Limited.
Head Office: 77 Kang Street, Sydney.
R-anches in all States and N.Z.
=*/ A. P A.)*®
Budson eyed him insolently. “Are you
being witty, Mr. Fordyce, or have you no
wits to use?”
“Whichever you care to think! But I
have a good pair of fists. Will you fight or
drink with me?”
A splutter of drunken laughter greeted
John’s words. A joke was better than a
fight any day, and something in the offered
choice appeared to amuse the crowd. John
glanced at Budson’s huge girth and trusted
that he would nevertheless prove too tough
for such an opponent. He fully expected
to fight. Amazingly, Baia, after a second s
hesitation, clapped him on the shoulder.
“You’ll do, Johnnie! What’ll it be?”
John Fordyce needed all his self-control
to refrain from then and there punching
those thin lips. He was far too much a
member of the Fordyce family to care foi
quick familiarity or to brook any Tom,
Dick or Harry treating him as a brother.
But he did not wish to make enemies
among the men he already regarded as fel-
low-pearlers; if he began a fight now, who
knew where it would end or what bad blood
arise before morning? He shrugged away
Budson’s hand and called to Mark to serve
drinks all round.
“That’s the way, sir; show ’em how a
gentleman does things,” cried a man John
had not yet noticed. “Shake hands, Mr.
Fordyce. No one ever had more respect
for breedin’ and good manners than Douglas
Mac Koo!”
“Go it, Cap’ll,” cried a voice all but
drowned in a wave of good-humored
laughter. .
Douglas Mac Koo, his portly figure clad m
a coat ancient beyond belief, with a peak
cap rakishly clinging to the back of his
white head, reeled across to John. The
old fellow, for all his pretences, seemed to
be a general favorite. A stickler for an
etiquette often enough absurd in the life he
led, he had been known to help many a man
out of deep water; no more than an affec-
tionate raillery greeted his idiosyncrasies,
but, however drunk he got, he avoided any
allusion to an existence apart from the
Nor’-West Coast. So far as utterances went
he might never have sailed south of Cos-
sack; but some among his friends thought
he carried the stamp of the Royal Navy.
Hours slipped away. John Fordyce, some-
what dizzy, eventually discovered himself
leaning against the pianoforte. Bella’s dress
was marvellous! It was still intact! But
he never dreamt of the fires his careless
glances lit within that so-intriguing bosom.
As she looked archly up into blue eyes
gazing down on her, Bella threw her last
hesitation to the winds. She had left
England for love of a man to whom she
gave herself "body and soul; and her pas-
sion''had all but consumed her when she
found herself abandoned in Sydney. But
once through the furnace, she believed the
glaze hard and impregnable beyond imagin-
ing. Never again! Love a man for an
hour; take all to be had for the taking;
give kisses and laughter and little kind-
nesses; but never, never, never care whether
he stayed or went! She had been happy
again in Cossack, where she found admira-
tion and attention sufficient for her avid
temperament, and endless opportunities to
be generous without taxing her limits or
necessitating strain on the essential woman.
Many men desired her; some she enter-
tained for a week or a month, secure behind
that bright hard glaze. Not until her eyes
lit upon this stranger had she felt the stir-
ring of passion so burnt out she had fancied
it cold and dead.
And he had watched her all the evening!
Her very back became aware of his glances.
Bella realised herself powerless to resist her
inclinations. He was conscious of her, as
she had willed him to be conscious.
Baia must be disposed of. It had amused
her to play with this man whose reputation
lived in his nickname ; but he possessed an
inconvenient way of expecting a woman to
belong entirely to him for so long as his
fancy dictated. She heard John announce
his intention of sailing at noon. Well, he
must not be allowed to go away and forget
Bella! Her fingers strayed to an ever-
popular melody, a melancholy tune invari-
ably popular as the evening advanced. The
men clustered round her, their voices echoed
into the night:
“Whilst the train rolled onwards, the husband sat
in tears
Thinking of the happiness of past remembered
years....
In the luggage-van ahead, wrapped in a sheet of
lead,
His better half lay dead....
In the luggage-van ahead”
They would not let her stop. Again and yet
again the absurd chorus wailed through the
room.
“In the luggage-van ahead”....
John Fordyce burst into laughter. Bella,
laughing, too, leant towards him. The song
dissolved in shouts of amusement, the easy
silly mirth of half-drunken men.
Baia lurched towards Bella and whis-
pered in her ear. She drew back.
“You’ve forgotten your wager with Mark,”
said she.
“Wash wager? Never forget a wager!”
“Oh, yes, you have. Didn’t you bet him
you could beat him at ninepins in the
moonlight?”
“You did, Baia, you did! With full
bottles of bubbly—the loser to pay for the
damage!”
“Where’s Mark? He must think he’ll lose
not to remember about it himself. Come
on, out you come, or the moon will set,
Outside, Baia!”
John made to follow the crowd as they
hustled towards the door, champagne
bottles beneath their arms, and betting on
the issue of the match as they went.
Bella arose to lay a restraining' hand upon
his wrist. He had mixed his drinks con-
siderably and he thought she looked quite
remarkably attractive. That dress!
“Please don’t go, Mr. Fordyce,” she
begged. “I’ve not heard a morsel of news
and all from the South. They are a rough
lot.”
Her inference was not lost. John grinned.
Making a set at him was she, the hussy!
“Good fellows,” said he.
“Oh, yes—in theii\ way! ”
“A way sensible enough to appreciate a
pretty face and a pair of clever hands
when they see ’em!”
“Go on with you! Bella has already
heard you don’t like the ladies.” A shot in
the dark that, on the part of Bella. But
one she had never known fail to elicit some
sort of response.
“The devil you have? There’s a lot of
things I like about ’em at any rate, my gal.”
“Perhaps you’re only frightened of them?
Or not a free man?”
Had she known the intimate history of
John Fordyce, the girl could not have
found a taunt better to achieve her purpose.
“Who says so?”
“No one I know of. I only thought
maybe You’re somewhat bashful and
all, aren’t you?”
“Bashful!” John flung an arm about her
waist and drew her lax form against his
own warm body.
“Then what do you like about Bella?”
she whispered, fire of her eyes for a second
unveiled.
{To be continued next week.)
Ballad of Willem de Vlaming
(1696).
Two hundred years and forty-three
Have all the sweet winds swept the sea
Since Willem dfaiped his final dram
And bade farewell to Amsterdam,
His slow Dutch frigate southward bound
For what fair chances might be found.
O’ershadowed by the Geelvinck tall,
A galliot and hooker small
This Vlielandt master, stoutly strong,
With frequent oaths, convoyed along
Those seaways of the past that drew
Quaint companies to countries new.
By force or inclination led
From Texel Roads to Java Heads,
In long jackboots or wooden shoon
The feet of -Fleming and Walloon,
A testy, taut, tenacious band,
Were turned away from Nederland.
Round Vanderdecken’s Gape Forlorn,
With matchlock, dirk and powder horn,
With clumsy guns of northern mould,
And lead and powder in the hold,
With bales and barrels, gin and stores,
They bore away for Indian shores.
They thumbed the priming, honed the sword,
And prayed the mercy of the Lord
That they and theirs. delivered be
From all the perils of the sea;
From greedy pirates, fire and woe,
Of hurricane or foreign foe.
Thus oft the flagon to his mouth,
Wore Mynheer Willem Vlaming south;
His Geelvinck’s keel at length to rest
In that broad river of the west
Where cluster now, a later birth,
On terraced lawns, the homes of Perth.
Here, of a Yuletide, ages gone,
They lay at anchor in the Swan,
The Pincher and the Weasel small,
The frigate Yellow Bunting tall,
And, by the good Dutch blood in me,
It was a gallant sight to see!
The master and his manly men,
Colart and Gerard Geritsen,
And frigate, hooker, galliot
May be by all the world forgot
Save those who turn, as I perchance,
Brave records of our past to glance,
And in a grey historic dream
See dark ship shadows in the stream,
And hear strange words of gruff command
Bring throaty echoes from a land
Where, grasping his protective spears,
The nervous tribesman, crouching, peers,
And marvels what these supermen,
From some far place beyond his ken,
Gome hence by ways and modes obscure,
Might mean to his possessions poor;
Or what of yet unknown duress
May threat his hungry nakedness.
But nor’ward-bouiul anon, nor much
Impressed, we read, these doughty Dutch
Towards green Batavia turn their ships,
And with the flagon to his lips,
Ilis king, or frau, full oft to toast,
Went stout De Vlaming down our coast.
He finds, on Cape Inscription writ,
Dirk Hartog’s record; adds to it
His own “hier comen” ; then, sedate
But jovial still, with pipe and, plate,
Peaked hat, red nose and pointed beard,
To Java’s shore his ships are steered.
* * * *
To Willem then I think no sin
To charge my glass with Hollands gin,
And drink his soul- where’er it be,
Safe port and pleasant company.
Good seaman of that early breed,
Right well he did, right well indeed!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


VISITORS TO EUROPE!
PARIS INTERNATIONAL
TRADE FAIR
4th to 18th May, 1932.
Embraces all branches of manufacture and production. Exhibitors from
over thirty foreign countries make this one of the world’s most important
and attractive Commercial and Art displays.
Buyers visiting the fair will be granted special transport discounts.
Full particulars from
THE FRENCH TRADE COMMISSIONER
BANK OF N.S.W. CHAMBERS, WYNYARD STREET, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
Re FRANCIS GLASS EDWARDS—
Deceased.
TV/ILL JAMES EDWARDS, a brother of
** the abovenamed deceased (or anyone
knowing his whei*eabouts), last heard of in
Queensland in 1896, please communicate with
the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart, Tasmania.
Tlie Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY “
__ letin tCuilfiinqs ,
252 Georqe Street. I
dn e
See announcement page 13.
ill
psmMMi
«=S 3gg§P^igi
'• ‘ v ...V .:$
The Best Plugs
for Your Car
. . Because they are built by Bosch
precision methods.
. . And because they’re made in
Australia.
PX
Sold by all
Garages and
Accessory Houses.
Manufactured by
PYROX PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE . •_
Formerly Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co-
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Ammon Ra arrived in Melbourne early
last week, but declined his engagement in
the Ci B\ Orr Stakes at Williamstown.
Doubtless J. T. Jamieson was opposed to
hurrying the Limond gelding in his autumn
preparation. Ike Foulsham also is “marking
time” with Chatham, who will be a most
formidable opponent of Ammon Ra in the St.
Legers. When mention was made to him of
Chatham being well treated in the New-
market Handicap, IToulsham ejaculated, “No
fear! The Leger is run on the same after-
noon.” Waterline, who vanquished Phar
Lap in the C. M. Lloyd Stakes last autumn,
was nominated for both the C. F. Orr Stakes
and the Marine Handicap at Williamstown.
He did not start in either race; but Adam
Skirving, who trains Waterline on a secluded
private track at Dandenong, declares that
the former Maorilander is O.K.
Twelve months ago Greenline finished out
of a place in the C. F. Orr Stakes; six
runners. There were four more starters on
Saturday, and the grand old battler from Syd-
ney was favorite, but went out in only half
a point better demand than Telford’s filly
Rondalina, and Bailey Payten’s Speltliorne
colt Pretzel. Last-named candidate was in
keen demand because of having won at
Williamstown the previous Monday. James
Scobie, who has been deputising for J.
Barden, pinned his faith to the Greenstead
gelding; yet Greenline drifted to 5 to .1,
firming a trifle at the death-knock. Ray
Wilson, who is in no way related to “Ticli”
of that ilk, has been doing some riding for
Gept: " Hush !"
Bert Whats the matter? ?
CaEP?T*. did I hear the shark beuc. ?"
Bert'."Ho, Iwas just wringing*
Mv costume''
Scobie’s establishment, and was entrusted
with the mount on Greenline. Ray Wilson
won several good races on Waterline when
that horse reached Melbourne two years ago.
Grcenline led practically all the way, but
was flat out to score by half a head from
Rondalina, with Viol d’Amour a creditable
third. Last spring Viol d’Amour beat
Waterline in the V.R.C. October Stakes and
was third in the Caulfield Guineas and Vic-
toria Derby. He ought to play a prominent
part in approaching big events. General
opinion of Williamstown spectators was
that Rondalina would have overthrown
Greenline if she had found her legs earlier
and obtained a better run at the turn. It
has to be remembered that she met Green-
line on 201 b. better than weight-for-age terms.
Rondalina is Telford’s main hope as a stake-
winner now that he has been deprived of
the services of Phar Lap.
The good form of Rondalina emphasises
the merit of G allantic’s Adrian Knox
Stakes victory, but the Randwick failure of
Rondalina may bo attributed in part to
Telford rushing her across to Sydney on the
Saturday after she ran third to Middle
Watch and Greenline at Moonee Valley. Jack
Holt, proud of his successes with Gallantic
in Sydney and Second Wind at Hobart,
returned home in time to saddle-up Highland
for the C. F. Orr Stakes, and pronounced
the veteran a sure place-getter. However,
Duncan had the worst of passages, being
shut in on the rails until no vestige of hope
remained. It was Highland who lowered
the colors of Gothic in a memorable contest
at Flemington, and Duncan feels more affec-
tion for him than for any neddy lie ever
straddled.
Duncan’s dominance as a Victorian rider
is unassailable. No rival could have won on
Ted Fisher’s pair—Muscovy, in the Juvenile
Handicap, and Carnadine, in the second divi-
sion of the Marine Handicap. Each was
in dire trouble when the little man engi-
neered an opening and fairly flogged his
way to victory. Muscovy got home by a
head and Carnadine by a neck. A protest
against Muscovy for interference was lodged
by the rider of Powerscourt, and those
who backed the former felt apprehensive;
however, the objection was dismissed. After
being last to leave the straight, Glaive,
favorite for the Wyndham Handicap, put in
a phenomenal finish to win by a long neck.
This Spearhead mare will take a lot of beat-
ing in the Australian Cup. Improved form
was revealed by Madstar, a Port Adelaide
Cup winner, who was specially prepared tor
the last Melbourne Cup, but shaped miser-
ably in all his spring outings.
For Caulfield on Saturday:—
Bond Cup: St. Frederick; next, Mira
Donna.
Oakleigh Plate: I’arkwood; next, Einga.
St. George Stakes: Chatham; next,
Ammon Ra.
-t*
Windbag was a wonderfully good three-
year-old in the autumn of 1925, and perhaps
the coming autumn wall see his sons Chatham
and Winooka at their best. For a horse pal-
pably above himself and weak in the betting,
Winooka gave a brilliant exhibition of gallop-
ing in the Thee-year-old Handicap at Rose-
hill. He led most of the way, and though
worn down in the straight by Whittingham
(6 to 1), to whom he was conceding nearly
two stone, he largely contributed to that slick
youngster making the good time of lmin.
254 sec. for the seven furlongs. Some punters
thought Pike might have been more energetic
on Winooka, but it is not his practice to
punch out a beaten horse whose condition
has failed. On the other hand, the boy on
Ethics (7 to 1) fairly belted that nag past
Ranier, the favorite, into third place.
Backed from twenties (very little of that)
to sevens, Ivillarney came with one of his
old-time runs in the Flying Handicap, and
it carried him to a close victory over Booth’s
Sweet Valais (6 to 1), with Fuji San, who
is the same age as Windbag, quite a good
third. Fuji’s div. on the 10s. tote, was £6
15s. Bayacrc, though apparently trained
to the minute, was a well-beaten favorite.
Antiochus, winner of the Carlingford Handi-
cap, was also backed from twenties (for a
pound or two) to sevens. It doesn’t take
much of a commission to shorten the price
to that extent nowadays.
Chide was the good thing of the day. He
was thrown into the Rosehill Handicap
with 9st. 21b.; Roley, who had 131 b. less, is
not in his class. Roley tried tp make a race
of it with Trautwein’s horse, but was com-
fortably beaten ; Magnetic, ridden by an un-
known apprentice, was the only other horse
in the picture. Twos could be got about
Chide, but he was soon at evens.
X X 4= Bl!
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Sweet Valais; next,
Erbie.
Canterbury Handicap: Jeypore; -next,
Roley.
Highweight Handicap: Charalf; next,
Sidney George.
Campsie Handicap: Wedding Feast; next,
Rolls Royce.
Ernest Lee Steere, the Westralian pas-
toralist, is the latest to become possessed
of the King’s Cup and to receive a congratu-
latory cablegram from George V. And his
horse Second Wind had the easiest of all
King’s Cup wins ; with Duncan up he beat
a field of moderates at Elwick in such hoi-
low fashion that he finished a dozen lengths
ahead of, the second horse, Billy Barton.
That nag s div. on the ss. tote was i- 14s.
6d.; Second Wind s backers got more for
a place (10s. 6d.) than for a straightout
wager (95.). Tor a moderate outlay Lee
Steere has bought more good horses than
any Australian of his time. Eurythmic was
th® us ’ but a l“ e and Second
Wind were uncommonly good. 1 he Lee
Steere colors have never been first past the
fo, so shrewd a buver there is hone 0 vet
foi so a buyti l fi P Y •
If this Page went in for doubles it would
pick three-year-olds for both the Newmarket-
Australian Cup and the Doncaster-Sydney
Cup. Greenline (lOst. 61b.) is a great
weight-carrier, but one can’t see him giving so
much poundage and a beating in the “six” to
fast young horses like Bold Bid (Bst. 51b.),
Winooka (Bst. 21b.), Gallantic (Bst. 21b.),
or Old Ming (7st. 91b.) ; and though Second
Wind has earned his 9st. 111 b. in the Aus-
tralian Cup, it will be surprising if he
proves 321 b. better than Pretzel. Bold Bid
and Pretzel (or St. Frederick, who has 7st.
101 b.) looks a likely Newmarket-Cup double,
And how are old stagers like Nightmarch
(9st. 131 b.), Waterline (9st. 61b.) and Sir
Chrystopher (9st. 41b.) going to get on in
the Doncaster against three-year-olds such
as Gallantic (Bst..), Dermid (Sst. lib.),
Winooka (Bst. 31b.) and Maybe (7st. 21b.)?
Three years ago the A.J.C. handicapper
gave Mollison 9st. 31b. and Ramulus Bst.
121 b. for this race, and Ramulus was no
better than, if indeed he was as good as,
some of those mentioned. In the Sydney
Cup Nightmarch (9st. 131 b.), if he comes
over), Veilmond (9st 91b.), Second Wind
(the same) and Gay Crest (9st. 81b.) will
be up against Chatham (Bst.), Johnnie Jason
(Sst. 41b. 1, Burwood (7st. 81b.) and Pretzel
(7st. 41b.). Gallantic and Chatham is an
attractive combination.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Too clever for Canadian Tommy Fielding
(10.3) at Leichhardt last Friday night,
Tommy Fairhall (9.13) made the visitor
look so futile at length that the affair was
called off —“no contest.” Fairhall set the
pace from start to finish, and was belting his
opponent about like a punching-ball in round
10, when the referee said he, Fielding and
everyone else had had sufficient.
* Bl! Bi: *
Tom Lurich (14.2) excelled himself when
Walter Browning (14.14) once more lost to
him at Leichhardt on Saturday. Lurich’s
flying tackle, followed by a body press,
won him the first fall. Reprimanded for
rough work in the sixth round, the Russian
tore the shirt off the referee’s back and
slung the garment over the ropes. Brown-
ing then threw Lurich after the shirt. Evad-
ing the punches of ringsiders, Lurich clam-
bered back to safety, and having gained the
only fall was declared the winner.
The Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: Far and away the best
performer on the South African side to date
is fast-bowler Bell. If not a Jones or a Lar-
wood for pace, he is very accurate, swerv-
ing the hew ball in deadly fashion" and lias
the staying power of a Carbine. H'is record,
good as it is, would have been far better if
his slips had served him more faithfully. Up-
to-date the Afrikander has taken 20 wickets
in the Tests for 572. Good going for any
fast bowler, but extra special when one con-
siders the quality of several of the batsmen
against him.
(Continued on page 31.)
On the final day of the National Games
swimming events in Melbourne, Noel Ryan
turned the tables in the quarter-mile on
Charlton, who had previously beaten him
over the distance in the N.S.W. champion-
ships. The N.S.W. girl, Mollie Mitchell,
who had been twice defeated by Frances
Bult, the Melbourne girl, in short-distance
races, proved too good for Miss Bult in the
women’s 440. The races were swum in fresh
water at Footscray baths.
* * * *
Here’s the Australian team for the Los
Angeles Olympiad. Among the men, Charl-
ton and Ryan, of N.S.W., are down for the
400 and 1500 metres swiming events, though
probably Charlton will tackle the long job
and Ryan the shorter one. Hillhouse, of
Victoria, who did so well at the Canadian
Empire Games, will share the distances with
Barwick, of Tasmania, who is an Australian
record-holder. Golding, another N. S. Welsh-
man, will figure in the 400-metres flat and
hurdle. Bob Pearce, of course, is the scull-
ing representative, while D. Gray, of Goulburn
(N.S.W.), will be the cyclist. E. Scarf, of
Victoria, has been chosen for the wrestling,
and J. Eve will manage. Coming to the
women, the Victorian Frances Bult will
figure in the swimming sprints and Claire
Dennis, of N.S.W., in the breast-stroke.
Another N.S.W. girl in Miss Wearne will be
the representative in the women’s track
sprints. The weak points in the selection
are the inclusion of women and a wrestling
representative. With the exception, perhaps,
of Frances Bult, none of the flappers is up
to Olympic form, and their selection will
entail the extra expense of a chaperon. As
for wrestling and boxing, we have never
been able to send a man to an Olympiad who
earned his oats in these categories.
Jit ❖ ❖
The rehabilitated Mosman crew got away
with the N.S.W. champion eights on
the Nepean River course, winning by seven
lengths from Leichhardt, with Haberfield
third. The time for the three miles was
16min. 42 3-ssec., a pretty useful spin which
might have been better had the winners
been pressed. R. W. Butler again stroked
the crew admirably, while the Red and
Whites also had the advantage of their 22-
year-old coach, R. J. Daly, in the cox’s seat.
Young as he is, Daly has already made a
great reputation as a rowing coach. The
State sculls were taken by H. Turner,
of Haberfield, who easily beat Tipping and
the title-holder, J. A. Goulding, in lDmin.
10 2-ssec. for three miles. ,J. R. Scott, the
Australian champion, was a long way off,
fourth.
# * * *
Wales opened the British international
Rugby season in good style by beating Scot-
land at Murrayfield before a crowd of 50,000
by two tries to nil. The Taffies won the
championship last year, and seem to be
returning to their form of 20 years ago after
a long spell in the wilderness.
* & sis
The opening stages of the Australian
tennis championships in Adelaide were
responsible for two thrills. A comparative
unknown from Tasmania named Knight all
but knocked out Crawford, running him to
five hard sets. Even more sensational was
the downing of Queenslander Moon, a recent
Australian champion and Davis Cup player,
by the ' 15-year-old Sydney schoolboy
McGrath. Moon played his usual severe
game, but the youngster’s steadiness and his
puzzling two-fisted backhand proved too
much for the Bananalander.


The Incomparable
Super Model!
IR-STROKE
r
By Right
of Merit. .
the star racket of the
tennis world to-day!
Super
Model
lower -
priced
at
70\-
(Post
Paid.)
It is honestly believed
. . . .that in its new prin-
ciples of constructional de-
sign .... manufacture anti
finish. . . .the “Master-
stroke” Super Model tran-
scends in every way any
other racket on the market
to-day* The result of long
thought and deliberation
.... made expressly for
Mick Simmons, Ltd., it
comes up to every
standard demanded iby
the most discriminating
player. See it... . get the
“feel” of it... . and verify
the facts stated for your-
self. Strung with the new
“Super-speed” Superfine
Red, White and Blue
Spiral Gut .... the quint-
essence of quality in
tennic gut.
Beginners’
GOLF SETS
/ 'W
Unbeatable
Value at.. .
451-
Complete with Brassie, 3 Irons,
2 Balls and Special Golf Bag.
“ PERLA”
Chromium-plated
Stainless
GOLF IRONS
Low-priced at 10/6
Brassies and Drivers to match 12/6
PROFESSIONAL
TUITION
GOLF...TENNIS
Roof Sports Ground.
Moderate Fees.
(Carriage paid on Tennis and Golf
Material.)
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MickSimmonsltd.
720-722 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“The Premier Sports House of Australia.”
The Ins and Outs
South Africa let go its bundle once more
in the fourth Test with Australia at Ada
aide After Bradman had been dropped twice
5S to be a habit «f the
yanked the Australian score tO ’jld Witi
205 to °'o to pass the big total, the Boks
might have done something to make tlie^Aus-
tralian batting side think hard when enttr-
ing on its fourth innings on a weal 1 a,,
wicket. They made a good start, Mitche
(95), Taylor (84) and Christy (52)' takm„
the score to 254 for 4 wickets. After that
it was “Good night, Nurse,” Grimmett ploy-
ing to be in one of his most unpleasant moods
(7 for S 3). Woodfull (37) anj .Ponstord
(27) got the necessary runs: Austiaiia nj
30 wickets. ... *
* *
On its own midden at YVfiblloongabba
Queensland was able to muster its lull
strength against the Victorians m their Sh
field Shield match. The coves from the Cab-
bage Garden were without Woodlull, Rigg and
Ponsford, but were otherwise at full
the bowling, with ex-Queenslandfer lion-
monger heading the list, being mu
acclaimed. Queensland scored a solid win
by 139 closing the second innings when six
were down for 210, to which Sides con-
tributed 50 n.o. Then Gilbert visi-
tors a hot time, finishing up with o toi t><.
Good old Jack Ryder stood to his team with
a hard-hit 71, and Oakley (8b) and a Beckett
(55) battled stoutly in a rearguard action.
* =l= *
“Gabba” ■ One of the outstanding features
of the recent cricket match between Queens-
land and Victoria was the knock-out admin-
istered to umpire Jimmy Orr by Jack Ryder.
It was unintentional on the King of Colling-
wood’s part. John swung hard on a short
one on the leg side, and the umpire stopped
it with his face. Ordinarily, no cricketer
weeps over any misfortune that may befall
an umpire, but in this case it was different,
and the injured one received every assist-
ance. All the same, Jimmy must be feeling
the years telling on him when he goes out
to a trifle like a smack oil the face witn
a cricket ball. He played scrum half tor
Queensland against N.S.W., Stoddart. s
British side and the Maoriland Native team.
:1c * * *
The selection of the Australian team for
the final Test Match against South Africa
contains at least three surprises. One
is the retention of Ponsford, who might
well have been rested to _ give one of the
pups a chance. Another is the return ■to
the bowling crease of Ironmonger m place
of the much younger left-hander. Hunt. r l he
third is the inclusion of Nash, of Tasmania,
who performed well against the Springboks
in Tasmania, taking 11 wickets for 74 in two
matches. Nash is a fastisli bowler, and his
selection may prove to be a wise bit of work.
E. A. McDonald, the best bowler Australia
has produced since Charley Turner, hailed
from Tassy, and learned his cricket there.
Racquet and Bawl
In spite of an abject start, the Australian
tennis team won the second Test match
against the Japanese in Perth by 7 rubbers
to 5, taking all the three singles and the
final doubles. Crawford beat Harada point-
less in their singles match, and, witn
Hopman, mopped up Harada and Satoh in
the doubles. Dunlop enhanced his reputation
by beating Nunoi in their singles match in
two sets. The result will, of course, again
encourage those desiring to see an Australian
side sent to the Davis Cup conflict. If one
could guarantee that Crawford could play
the same game two days running, the idea
would be worth backing*. As it is he has Jet
the Australian side down badly on previous
tours —witness that exhibition against Italy
—and this season has shown he is just as
unreliable as ever. The Cup contest is a
knock-out one, and to send an in-and-out
player away is a waste of time and money.
“Top Spin”: With each side one in, the
third Test between the Japanese and Aus-
tralian tennis-players which begins in
Sydney on February 18 should be full of
interest. Thus far the fortunes of both
sides and the form of the players have
alternated in a way calculated to attract
the attention of even a pony stipendiary
steward, though, of course, there can be
no question of running for the betting. The
visitors, who have made themselves excep-
tionally popular throughout Australia, will
leave for Brisbane on their way home on
February 20 —that is unless graver events
overseas compel an abandonment of their
tennis programme.
“Swan”: Harada proclaims Crawford a
genius, capable “on his day” of beating any
player in the world. Most of us, while
agreeing with that, would like to see Jack’s
“dav” dawn a bit oftener than it does.
Harada has a great opinion of the young
South Australian Turnbull, and considers
he should go abroad with Crawford as
a singles player. For the doubles, he likes
Hopman and Ray Dunlop. He himself is
dropping out of first-class tennis at 33 to
make room for the many young players in
Japan who are clamoring for a chance in
first-class company.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: Though there has been a bit
of a kick about it among a section of the
members, the Australian Golf Club has de-
cided to build an up-to-date clubhouse to
replace the former one, which was practi-
cally destroyed by fire some months ago.
The new clubhouse will be situated near the
present fifth hole, and tenders are to bo
called for from the many members of the
club who are architects. The club cleaned
up £9OOO in insurance as a result of the fire,
so the cost will be offset by that amount.
In addition, the committee considers it is
justified in its decision by reason of the
work and wages it will provide for people
who need both badly.
•y * ❖ *
“Carnoustie”: These Sydney daily papers
are always finding out that Noah has made
a successful landfall and that 11. M. Queen
Anne is unhappily deceased. One of them
the other day showed some photographs illus-
trating an “ingenious American iron club.”
The gadget has a ratchet device fitted to the
socket of the shaft, and by means of a screw
the face of the club can be altered to any
angle desired, making it at will anything
from a putter to a niblick. This club, as
might have been imagined, since it saves the
purchase of half a dozen others, was in-
vented by a Scots professional 40 years ago.
There was a rush for it, and more than
one worthy was so rattled that lie couldn’t
hear an invitation to “liae a wee dram” for
at least 10 minutes. Then one day St.
Andra’s said “Na” in its usual nasty way
and that was the end of the new club.
“Cash Amateur” : Something of a surprise
was created in golf circles lately when it was
announced that Bobby Jones had been elected
president of the American professional
golfers’ association. There has been an
elaborate explanation to , the effect that the
billet is a purely honorary one and does not.
mean that Bobby has joined the professional
organisation. Why shouldn’t he, anyway?
The moment he took a cheque for giving a
talkie exhibition and demonstration of golf
he became a professional under the rules gov-
erning the game. Of course, the Yanks pro-
fess not to recognise St. Andrew’s. It’s a
good bet that Bobby will not nominate for
the British amateur event, all the same.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: There has been a little bit of
a rumpus in British golf circles over the
open championship. Pros, asked for a post-
ponement from May to June on the ground
that climatic conditions were better in the
latter month. The Royal and Antient turned
the suggestion down with an acid inference
that the delay was desired more to let the
pros, have time to get into first-class form
than anything else. America is more amen-
able, and the open and amateur events there
will be played earlier than usual this year in
order to avoid the midsummer heat.
* * * *
“Taparora”: As a retired missionary, I
deem it my duty to give “Fakarava” (B.
3/2/’32) the true inwardness of his failure
to strike his golf ball on the outer beach.
I may say that I was an eyewitness of the
happening, but owing to my invariable rule
of never associating in any capacity with
traders I did not interfere. As “Fakarava”
says, he dropped a ball at his feet, but as his
stance was uncertain, he moved some little
distance away to where a female turtle was
laying her eggs. For one hour by my watch
the misguided man played her eggs, as fast
as they were laid, in mistake for golf balls.
CLEVER ASSOCIATE.
“What sort of a game does your wife play?”
“Oh, well on the scratch mark.”
No wonder when he decided it was time
to so hack to his store that he found the
original golf hall intact. As to liis, partner,
“F.’s” allegation that lie also was playing
practice approaches is absolutely false. It
is true he began to do so, but almost imme-
diately he retired to slumber 'neath the shade
< f a ‘ sheltering palm, though “F.” never
noticed it.
C. L. MacKenzie contributes his pibroch:
“Hoylake” (B. 20/l/’32) refers to a dispute
alleged to have arisen through a golf ball, lying on
the lip of a hole, falling in as a result of an
earthquake shock. Years ago a leading English
golfer stated in the “Daily Telegraph” that he
had once won a match in a similar fashion. I wrote
telling him that he should not have gained the
victory, as it was quite clear from the rules that
if a ball at rest were displaced: by any agency
outside the match, except wind, the ball should be
replaced or dropped. Many weeks afterwards the
golfer replied that a leading King’s Counsel in
England had written to him in a similar strain, and
that on the strict reading of the rules I was correct.
Car and Cycle
“Tenakoe” : Norman Smith is still having
trouble with that Maoriland beach, which,
for the first time in its history, obstinately
refuses to flatten itself out to its ordinary
condition. Smith had such a bad spin when
he put up the 10-mile record with the beach
half-covered with water that he is determined
not to risk his neck beyond the ordinary by
impatience; he will wait until things, are
normal before he undertakes the hair-raising
job of beating Campbell’s 245.7 m.p.li. over
the mile. Presumably arrangements have
been made to time Smith over the kilometre
as well as the mile. Campbell’s time for this
distance (1003 3/5 yards) is 246.08 m.p.h.,
which is really the world’s fastest move on
dry land to date.
;j; J'c *!"
“Sprocket”: Malcolm Campbell first got
into the news as a bicyclist. In the early
1900’s he was fined a pound with costs by
an English magistrate for riding a bike at
30 miles an hour. “This,” said the indig-
nant Beak, “will be a lesson to you not to
ride fast in future.” It was a lesson in a
way. Campbell has never been pinched
since for speeding.
:j: Jjc
“vv nizz”: Early reports of the Monte
Carlo Rally, in which Australian motorists
were contending show that the Light Car
section (up to 1100 c.c.) went to G. do Laval-
ette in a Peugeot. Another Frenchman,
Andre Bouillot, a noted racing driver, was
second, and last year’s winner, Briton Y. E.
Leverett, third. Of the Australian contin-
gent, which started from Palermo in Sicily.
Miss Joan Richmond (Riley-Dunlop) finished
17th and Miss Jean Robertson (Riley-
Dunlop) 19th. The choice of starting-point,
which gave them only 1111 miles to go as
against the 2260 miles from Stavanger i.i
Norway, covered by the winner, cost them If)
points. Both “qualified” however, and will
receive a bronze plaque.
* * * *
; ,“Disc Clutch”: A new regulation under
the Victorian motor Car Act might well be
copied by all the other States. Owners of
motor vehicles arc to be issued with an
“owner’s certificate.” It will safeguard the
sale of any motor vehicle, since it must be
produced before any transfer of ownership
can be legally made and endorsed by the
police authorities before the transaction is
valid. As an effective, stopper to the flour-
ishing trade in stolen motor-cars, the regula-
tion seems to fill the bill effectively.
“Botham”: The Australian Grand Prix
series for motor-cycles on Phillip Island
(Vic.) provided some spectacular racing.
This was especially the case in the 100 miles
senior event for all-powered cycles, which
meant 16 trips round an awkward course of
some 04 miles. Only three riders out of li
starters finished, the race going to "Victorian
R. East, who averaged 74.8 m.p.h. The
junior race over 50 miles was won by the
N.S.W. rider Stewart Williams, who was an
Australian representative ip the Isle of Man
Tourist Trophy race last year. His average
was 72 m.p.h.—good going for machines
under 850-c.c. capacity. The side-car event
was taken by L. F. Pratt with an average
speed of 68 m.p.h.
Miscellaneous
“Hamilton”: Queensland has swept the
board this year as far as open-boat sailing is
concerned, the victory of Tangalooma in
Brisbane last week in the blue-riband event
of the sport, the 18-footer Australian cham-
pionship, having been added to the national
championships for 12- and 16-foot skiffs, the
latter race having been sailed on Port Jack-
son. The only title missed was that for the
14ft. section, decided in Melbourne and won
by the local craft Triad, no Queensland
boat entering. N.S.W. has had a particu-
larly poor season, both with the boats ami
the yachts. In the latter category, the Vic-
torians have taken away both the Northcote
and Sayonara Cups, the one with Toogooloo-
woo and the other with Vanessa. Both these
boats were designed abroad, while Norn,
which lost the Sayonara Cup, was built ui
Europe. Why not give Australian designers
and builders a chance?
The Queensland boat-
builders have shown
that there is plenty
of talent in this
country.
* *
“Stand Off”: Tom
Lawton, probably the
finest five-eighth Aus-
tralian Rugby has pro-
duced, has surprised
his pals by announcing
a return to the game,
from which he retired
last year. ' Probably
the prospect of selec-
tion for the South
African tour has influ-
enced him, that being
one of the few Rugby-
playing countries in
the world where he
has not figured. There
is no reason why he
should not strike form
again, since he is only
84. Australia last sea-
son was short of a first-class man in Tom's
pet position.
* * *
“Drayton”: Queensland, one of the first
States in Australia to play polo, is finding
that the depresh has knocked the game back
badly. There was to have been a big tourney
this winter at Toowoomba, but the entries
have been so disappointing that the Darling
Downs centre will probably have to write; off
the jamboree. An attempt is to be made to
enlist the support of some N.S.W. teams,
but the outlook is not very hopeful. Indeed
it was hinted at the recent annual meeting
of the Queensland Polo Association that the
concern might have to put up the shutters,
temporarily at least.
“Third Base” : America is popularly sup-
posed to be a prosperous place. That the
contrary is the case is seen in the fact that
Babe Ruth, most famous of base-
ballers, has had his demand for a fee of
70,01)0 dollars for the 1932 season turned
down. Babe, who not long ago was getting
10*0,000 dollars annually, consented to a
cut from 80,000 to 70,000, but insisted on
a two-year contract at the new figure.
The club concerned, however, couldn’t see it,
and negotiations are still proceeding. At the
old exchange rates 70,000 dollars worked out
at about £14,000 a year. What they would
stand for to-day would mean nearly double
that in British sterling; so it seems, after
all, that our Australian cricket professionals
are not nearly as well rewarded for hitting
a ball with a stick as their American cousins.
* ❖ ❖ ‘
. “Carom”: It seems to be definitely
settled that Lindrum and Newman will tour
Canada and the United States in the near
future. How the pair will fare in the
American cannon-game, which has been
raised by experts to an unbelievable degree
of intricacy, depends on how the Yanks will
view manager Camkin’s suggestion that the
rules be “modified.” In Canada, of course,
British billiards with the pockets is well
known. Walter’s contention that the mastery
of the cannon game attained by himself and
Newman will give them a chance is not
admissible, since the Americans permit only
two consecutive cannons when both object
balls are in the same baulk. The most
popular version of the American game for
show purposes is that in which three
cushions must be struck by one ball before
it strikes the second object ball. The game
is the limit in difficulty. It was not H’oppe,
by the way. who beat Roberts in England,
but Frank Ives. The game was played on an
English table, but with 24in. balls. Ives
worked the balls to the anchor-cannon posi-
tion, of which Roberts then knew nothing,
and scored 1207 consecutive cannons before
deliberately breaking the balls. That was
in 1893.


wash with
the Garment.
Cash’s Ribbons
made in daintiest fade-
less Pastel Shades, and
are ideal for Shoulder
Straps and Lingerie.
ĥ
Look like new after
repeated washing—ob-
tainable in a variety of
widths.
Ask your Draper for Cash’s
J.&J. Cash Australian
Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd. -y
Richmond, Melbourne. VT^r
\
mi
4
Perfect beauty
comes to your hair when the
rich, pure nourishment of Row-
land’s Macassar Oil gives it the
beauty of perfect health.
0 f Chemistß,
Stores and
H a i r d ressers,
3/6, 7/- and
10/6. Red for
dark hair,
golden for fair
or grey hair.
roManct's
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
22 Laystall Street, Rosebery Avenue,
LONDON, E. 0.1, ENGLAND.
J. H. & CO.
The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local,
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
Legal Notice.
[n the supreme court of victoria.
IN THE MATTER of the Companies Act 1928
AND IN THE MATTER of The Aeolian Company
(Australia) Limited.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that by an Order of
the Supreme Court of Victoria dated the Fourth
day of February One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-two it was directed that separate meetings of
preference and ordinary shareholders of the above-
named Company be summoned for the purpose of
considering and if thought fit approving with, or
without modification the compromise or arrangement
proposed to be made between the Company and the
holders of such preference shares and embodied, in
an Agreement made on the twenty-first day of
December One thousand nine hundred and thirty-one
between the Company and Mr. W. A. Watt and
Mr. Gerald Robinson on behalf of themselves and all
other preference shareholders of the said Company
and that such meeting be held on Friday the Fourth
day of March One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
two at the Company’s Registered Office at 201
Collins Street Melbourne in the State of Victoria at
the respective times below mentioned namely:—
1. —The meeting of preference shareholders at
12 o’clock noon.
2. —The meeting of ordinary shareholders at 12.15
o’clock in the forenoon.
At which place and respective times all the pre-
ference shareholders and ordinary shareholders are
requested to attend. The said Order of the Supreme
Court of Victoria provides however that it shall not
be necessary to summon a meeting of the ordinary
shareholders of the Company in the event of each
and every ordinary shareholder consenting in writing
to the said compromise or arrangement. A copy ,of
the said Agreement embodying the said compromise
or arrangement can be inspected at the Registered
Office of the Company at 201 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne aforesaid on any week day between the
hours of 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. prior to the date of
the said meeting.
The preference and ordinary shareholders may
attend such meeting as aforesaid and vote in person
or by proxy provided that all proxies are deposited
at the Registered Office of the Company at 201
Collins Street Melbourne not less than forty-eight
hours before the hours fixed for the holding of the
said meetings.
The said Order of the Supreme Court of Victoria
further provides that Minutes of the proceedings at
the said meetings be taken and kept.
The said Agreement embodying _ the said coni -
promise or arrangement will be subject to the sub-
sequent approval of the Court.
Dated this Sixth day of February, One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-two.
THE AEOLIAN COMPANY (AUSTRALIA),
LIMITED.
H. M. CROFT, Secretary.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenstand's
Distinguished Social Life.
Dr. P. A. Micklem, rector of St. James’s,
whose ascetic good looks always suggest that
he really ought to be wearing a bishop’s
apron, has cast Anglican circles in Sydney
and Queensland into quite a flutter. He has
been considered a bachelor in the nth degree,
and now in his fifties he announces his en-
gagement. The lady is Miss Evelyn Auriac,
a mistress at the Tamworth Church
of England Girls’ Grammar School. The
two met in Sydney five years ago, though
both have Queensland associations, the cul-
tured Oxonian having been principal of St.
Francis’s College, Nundah (Q.), and later,
up to 1917, when he took over St. James’s,
canon of the Brisbane Cathedral. Miss
Auriac is a graduate of the Queensland Uni.,
and before her Tamworth appointment was
on the staff of St. Margaret’s C. of E.
Grammar in Brisbane. The wedding is dated
for some time in April, and is to be followed
by a year’s journeyings in other lands.
Perhaps Dr. Micklem is driven to do it in
self-defence. Twice within a few weeks he
had seen in Sydney papers a celibate neigh-
bor given a wife; on the second occasion
the rev. gentleman was declared to be leav-
ing for Europe with the lady.
The newest arrival to a Sydney pulpit
came from Belfast by the Moldavia; and
there need be no hesitation in mentioning
the Rev. Wylie Blue’s wife—she comes with
him to Scots’ Church, on Church Hill. Mr.
Blue wears his hair longer than any other
shepherd in Sydney, and there’ll be some
who will see a likeness in him to Henry
Irving.
One often wonders if, in spite of the Scrip-
tures, the meek shall inherit the earth; but
there seems little doubt that the Kings will
inherit Australia. The foundation of still
another ramific'ation of Governor King’s
family was laid when Joyce King, a grand-
daughter of George King, of Goonoo Goonoo,
and a great-grand-daughter of Governor
King, became the wife of Robert Kennedy
King at St. Mark’s, Darling Point. Ken-
nedy comes from Toowoomba (Q.), and the
bride is the only daughter of the Arthur
Kings, of Chatswood. Party at Petty’s.
“Tomato, six pounds for sixpence!”—the
streets have been full of the cry; tons upon
tons of dazzling size and quality. Six pounds
for sixpence!—and a thought for the man
who grows them! But maybe there’s a
better time coming for him, too. In the
U.S.A. a uew tomato drink is on the market,
and doctors are warmly approving it. Aus-
tralian eyes are turned that way, all the
more eagerly because the orange and the lemon
have a perverse habit of being scarcest just
when the community’s throat is driest. Of
course, it’s the early tomato that catches the
germ ; but when the germ hides in a roll of
notes you can put up with him. To bring
the earliest possible blush-to the check of the
vegetable we’ve been putting up acres ami
acres of glass houses. If you take the wind-
ing track that leads you through French’s
Forest from Pymble to Mori a Yale, and if
you turn out to the right just before you
reach Rock Lily, you’ll come upon a nest
of them cuddling the slopes where they can
catch the .morning sun as it comes streaming
out of its bath to bid you good morning.
This Letter throws a sprig of rosemary
on the grave of George Eastham, of New-
castle. George, who died a bachelor at 72,
directed his trustees to use their discretion
“with regard to the suspension of payments
due to him upon mortgage, in order that
widows or others in impecunious circum-
stances may be relieved.” But if the widow
marries, then the regular payments must be
resumed. “No loafing on the ladies!” said
George Eastham in effect.
Mary Brigham, of Woollahra, will be
one of February’s pretty brides. On the
27th she will wed Reggie Cook at Scots
Church enveloped in moire and tulle and
girdled with frangipanni—Mary is always
original, and this is her way of wearing
her wedding bouquet. She will carry an
ivory-backed prayer-book, and will be
followed by her great friend Jessie White,
whose father will tie the knot. Mrs. Brig-
ham and Mary are from Auckland.
Joan Gifford, who arrived last week by
the Mongolia, promises to be as popular
as her brother, Sir Philip Game’s cheery
A.D.C. Joan has come for the Bridge
celebrations and to link up with her mother
and step-father, the G. H. Rayners, in
whose company “Giff” has been sampling
the charms of Java. He is due to take up
his daily task of running a bunch of girl-
hood down to Bondi’s surf on the 11th.
Meantime Joan’s address is the Garden
Club.
The Moldavia brought Mrs. David
Williams and her husband on a visit to
her mother, Mrs. Mcßobert, of Mosman —
Mrs. David was Margaret Mcßobert, a
great worker for the Graythwaite Diggers’
hospital before she married and settled in
England. Another Mcßobert daughter,
Jessie, married an officer of the Platypus and
is living at Hove, in England.
Pretty little Pixie Pratt, who as Pixie
O. Harris was responsible for many
delightful illustrations to fairy stories, last
week became a heroine. She did it with
such breathi-taking promptitude that she
saved a man’s life. Pixie and her husband,
Bruce Pratt, and their ten-months’-old baby
were travelling home to Watson’s Bay
when, from their ferry, they saw a man
struggling in the water, too weak to reach
a litebuoy which a deckhand had flung him.
Pixie handed over her precious infant to
a woman passenger, hopped on to the rail
and dived in. Her husband hopped in at
the same time, and between the two, ,a
lifebuoy and the Clifton Gardens boat,
the rescue was effected. This, if you please,
happened at about half-past nine at night,
in a harbor which is a pet resort for
sharks. Pixie is a fragile-looking girl, too,
with one of those delicate pink and white
complexions, and a soft, rather shy, way
of speaking.
Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax goes abroad with
her Margaret next month, and the fair-haired
youngster will be one of the debs, at the
next Court. Margaret, who looks as airy
as a butterfly, is a most earnest worker
among the Girl Guides. With them will
travel Norah Jellicoe, who has been the guest
of Lord and Lady Bledisloe in Maoriland.
A belated new-year letter from the ever-
moving Chryssa Criehton-Imrie came last
week from Hongkong, where she says the
harbor bristles with battleships and eight
babies per night are collected dead from
dustbins. This is not the work of the battle-
ships, but is entirely owing to the fact that
China has no Child Welfare Association.
While Chryssa is in China she is determined
to get one going. Already in Java and in
Singapore she has been working in the cause
of the better baby, and after Hongkong she
is tackling Canton, where she’ll have the
use of a special army car.
Kurt Offenburg, the German journalist,
who was in Sydney last year, is among the
old friends Miss Imrie has met in Hongkong.
At Princess Melikoff’s cocktail-shaking the
other afternoon two of the brightest young-
sters were Cherry Davies and Gretchen
Borsdorff. Gretchen, who prefers to be
known as “Jimmy,” hails from Melbourne,
but England is not long behind either of
them. The party was in salutation to Mrs.
A. E. Hughes, down for a day or so from
Leura. Her two tall daughters were of the
party. Our only princess wore mist-grey
chiffons topped by a large black hat.
When the history of Prince Alfred’s is
written, more than a page will be filled with
the exploits of Mrs. W. Epps, who as Mrs.
Charles Walker founded the Women’s
Auxiliary, which since the war has raised
thousands towards the hospital’s running
expenses. Bur-
dekin House,
which is run
as an artistic
residential in
the interests
of Prince
Alfred’s, was
one of Mrs.
Epps’s happy
iusp irations.
Her latest
move is the
Bridge The-
atre —a cinema
for those who
demand intel-
-lige n c e in
screen story
and acting.
The idea is
to run the
theatre for
the benefit of
seven city
hospitals, each maiming it for one day with
voluntary help and collecting the takings.
The North Shore, Women’s (Crown-street),
the Royal for Women and the Mater are
interested in the scheme. Rene Pardon pic-
ture.
Travellers are always telling us our hotels
don’t know how to cater for overseas visi-
tors. “Well, now, what would you do?”
this Letter the other day asked E. D. Reed,
the Canadian who has been sent to Australia
by the Matson line to promote the American
tourist traffic from this end. And this is
what he answered :
I’m not here to teach anybody his business; all I
can say is what I think, upon long experience, the
American tourist would appreciate. When Mr.
Tourist registers I’d ask him how long he expects
to stay, and where he is going next. Then I'd
offer to make reservations for him at his next
stop-over point. I’d have the hotel tariffs, and
arrange this little courtesy. Next, when he has
been shown to his room, if your hotel is not
equipped with running ice-water in the room, I’d
say, don’t wait for the American to ask for ice-
water; have a full two-quart-size jug filled with ice
and water sent up to his room. See that he has an
abundance of towels, soap and writing paper, tele-
graph forms, laundry lists, dry-cleaners’ lists. Post
a little card inside the door of the room outlining
the tariff, the various services available, the prices
and description of a breakfast, menu, lunch and
dinner. And at breakfast, lunch and dinner make it
a permanent rule to first place a glass of ice-water on
the table at each chair occupied. And keep the
glass filled while he is enjoying his) meal.
These laupdry and dry-cleaners’ lists are really
important. Be sure to see that this valet service
is available. Valet service is a most important
item, little known, I think, in Australia. But it
must be prompt. The sophisticated tourist, American
or other, will expect his suit back within an hour
at most.
During the past 22 months I have motored over
83,000 miles of American roads, and in almost 100
per cent, of the hotels the service I’ve been talking
about is available. As an illustration of how simple
little things appeal to the traveller, let me describe
a small service offered by one of the most success-
ful hotel chains in America. Every morning each
guest upon waking finds a copy of that day’s
paper under the door. On this paper is pasted a
small slip stating that it is presented with the
compliments of the hotel. It offers also suggestions
for breakfast, and informs the guest that, if he
prefers, it will be served in his room, without extra
charge.
Australia is being advertised in America as never
before. Australia is being served by a new fast
super-service of ships as never before. Australia will
be called upon to cater for a greater number of
American tourists than ever before. Put on the
lowest possible ground, it will pay Australian hotels
to show these little courtesies that will express
welcome. The American tourist will appreciate
them; and, I think, many others besides the
American.
The men doctors will have to look to their
laurels. When the results of first-year exam.
came out a
few weeks ago
Iza Joan
Harris headed
the honors
list. She
walked off with
high distinc-
tion in chem-
istry, physics,
botany and
zoology, and
shared with
two of the men
students the
Renw i c k
S c h o larship.
However,
something of
the sort can
be expected
from the
youngster,
whose pass in
the intermedi-
ate, when she was 14, still remains an un-
broken record. Iza has an intimate acquaint-
ance with French, German and Latin, and
much of this talent for languages is inherited
from her father, who is editor of the
“Hebrew Standard.”
Helen Simpson, whose new novel,
“Boomerang,” is having a London success,
was in the city of her birth a few years ago.
She is almost completely Londonised since
her marriage to Dr. Browne, of Harley-
street, but brother Telford lives here and
she has other affiliations. The “aristo-
cratic French family” of her book, whose
descendants became Australians, is presum-
ably the De Lauret clan, from which her
mother sprang. Its most fortunate member
financially was her mother’s eldest sister.
She married a Dalglish, who made a for-
tune out of the Broken Hill Prop, and left
it to her when he died. One of her many
benefactions to the R. C. Church in England
was a gift of £.30,000 towards the comple-
tion of the dome on the South Kensington
oratory. Only one son settled in Australia
—Alec, of Pomeroy, near Goulburn. After
his death his son inherited the beautiful
place, and he lives there now with his wife,
who was Hazel Hay, only daughter of the
Alec H'ays.
The news that the Union Club was to be
left in its ancient Bligh-street home, after
all, didn’t please the whole of the members.
The older ones have always hated the idea
of moving, but there are plenty of young
bloods who would have welcomed the up-to-
date building that was designed by the club’s
honorary architect, Theo Marks, when re-
sumption seemed certain a couple of years
ago. Under the original agreement the City
Council contracted to pay £305,817 for site,
building, compensation and so on. That was
under the carefree Stokes regime, when
money was being splashed round and no city
property-owner felt safe from being resumed
at a moment’s notice. The slump ended all
that, and the aldermen were more than
relieved to be released from their obliga-
tions The club gets £lO,OOO for the
breach of agreement, with certain cuts and
out-of-pocket expenses. But it is only safe
tnl nappy financial days come again, and
Labor aldermen get a fresh craze for run-
ning roads through all the attractive build-
ings m sight.
Sixty years’ service in the O. of E.
ministry and 50 years of married life were
celebrated during the week by Padre F.
Richmond, of Hunter’s Hill. Mrs. Richmond,
W -°i,4- W^ s j° int receiver of congratulations,
might justly claim as long a service in
church affairs, for her father, J. M. Donald-
son, was a clergyman, too, and at the time of
his daughter’s wedding was rector at.
Kapunda, where the “cattle” Kidmans come
tr oni. Among the sons and daughters who
gathered around the golden-wedding rejoic-
ings were the Rev. G. S. Richmond, of Gran-
ville, and Miss Daisy Richmond, formerly a
war nurSe and now in charge of the nursing
and dispensing of the settlement at Nepean
Dam. The scheme for growing dates at Her-
gott Springs was started by the Reverend
Richmond when that part of South Australia
was in his vineyard.
Dorothy Tait is flashing a diamond, given
her by Byron E. Wrigley, jun. This very
eligible young man is managing director Of
Wrigley’s in Australia and a nephew of that
William Wrigley whom hundreds of thou-
sands of schoolchildren and the detective
force of America (according to the pictures)
call blessed. Byron is famous for his parties.
Dorothy is the younger of theatrical manager
E. J. Tait's daughters, an old girl of Fren-
sham and a worker for the Golden Fleece
Free Kindergarten.
Following the splash-proof stocking, Eng-
land has evolved the “drysleve.” This is a
combined waterproof gauntlet and armlet for
the protection of the right arm of car-drivers-
in bad weather, and particularly of the arihs
of drivers of open cars. One of these seen
the other day was in snowy white, and im-
pressive enough to hold in check a roaring
bull.
Queensland notes :
Colonel N. A. H. Campbell, Governor Goodwin’s
A.D.C., and Mrs. Campbell are off to Asia and
thence to London. A gay throng farewelled them
on the boat, for they have been very popular here.
Colonel Campbell saw active service in the Big
War, and still carries a bullet pretty close to the
spine.
Two sisters who have become engaged almost
simultaneously are Lilian Agnes and Elizabeth Mabel
Nimmo. Lilian is to marry William John Tornlift-
son, and Elizabeth, 8.A., has chosen Dr. Stanley
A. Trout, M.Sc. The girls are daughters of Thpmas
Nimmo, M.L.A., and Elizabeth is one of Queens-
land’s barristers.
A visitor by the Taiping was Miss M. Earle, of
the Mitchell River Mission. In the rainy season
the station is so isolated by floods that Miss Earle
has to fill the roles of doctor, matron, parson and
nurse. The staff has had a busy time of late, for
there has been a lot of sickness among the natives.
Gold and white blossoms were the decorations iii
St. James’s, Toowoomba, for the marriage of John
Gilbert Johnston and Frances Erica Hodgson. The
bride, who was given away by her father, was in
ivory bridal satin and Brussels-lace veil. Marcia
Hodgson and Alison Inglis ’maided in daffodil
mariette, and Judith Bourne was trainbearer in del-
phinium-blue mariette.
The F, Watts couple have just been celebrating
their golden wedding. He came from Kent to
Australia as a young man, starting business in
Brisbane in ’79 ; he was Mayor of Toowong in 1919.
Mrs. Watts was born in Brisbane, and is a member
of the executive of the Red Cross and the National
Council of Women. It took 400 telegrams to convey
congratulations to the old couple, not to mention a
few cables. Zinnias and gladioli made gay the lounge
in their home at Auchenflower. There was a musical
programme, and Miss K. Rose presented a two-tier
wedding cake to the host and hostess. Handsome
gifts came from the Good Templars and the Auchen-
flower bowling club.
At Christ Church, Veresdale, Beaudesert, Herbert
B. Meissner and Nancy Waldron w T ere made one.
The bride was in ivory satin and Brussels-lace veil.
Isabel Hiscok, the bride’s cousin, and Isabel Mark-
well, her niece, ’maided in white georgette picture
frocks touched with blue and pink and Dorothy
Varden bonnets,


SYDNEY' BRIDGE CELEBRATIONS• MARCH 1932.
irtUi
m
128
fox' J
*» *»
®?i*l!lpf'»« Ipl'ln SI Hi ’i! I
VISIT SYDNEY
for this occasion
and stay at the
Wentworth
SsKS
GREATLY REDUCED TARIFF
The Wentworth, Sydney’s most up-to-date hotel,
announces new greatly-reduced tariffs for rooms only.
Single room , 10/6 per day
Double room 20/- per day
With private bath extra.
Guests are advised to make early reservations.
AUSTRALIA’S HOTEL DE - LUXE
Church SfCill - Sydney
’Phone 8W1361
All arrangements personally supervised by Mrs. Maclurcan
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800for [?]
Buckley e-Nunn, [?]
[?]
Welcome as the deluge of rain was on
Friday it was just a few hours too late
to prevent another black dav of bush-hre
tragedies. The hot winds of the previous
day fanned up the dying flames about the
Noojee and Fowelltown areas, where there
are timber mills; and, as in 1926, lives were
lost (nine this time), and many families
were made homeless and destitute. While we
city folk were getting soaked just crossing
Collins-street and umbrellas were making-
rivulets in tram-cars these unfortunates were
being hemmed in, not so many miles away,
by walls of fire. The fires have been travel-
ling on some of the hillside and seaside
residential areas, and the golf house at
Healesville had a very narrow escape. There
has also been a further outbreak at Mt.
Evelyn, wliere recently a large mansion was
destroyed and members of the family who
were holidaying there had a close call, but
on this latter occasion a change of wind
gave respite. Not for six years has the
State suffered so severely from bush con-
flagrations, but the season latterly has been
very dry, and recent heat waves have made
the bush like tinder.
The weather on Saturday afternoon was
fresh, sunshiny and delightful, ideal for
the regatta on the pine-tree-bordered Mari-
byrnong River, staged by the Essendon
River League to aid the improving and beauti-
fying of park and river. Though a com-
paratively young organisation the league,
with the help of the Melbourne and Metro-
politan Board of Works,, Essendon City
Council and Braybrook Shire Council, has
worked wonders in the appearance of the
river. The elevated bank on the Essendon
side is now terraced with stone facing,
forming a natural grandstand, from which
can be obtained almost a full view of a
race, while below there is a wide promenade
by the water’s edge. Rockeries are ready
for plants, levelled areas of land await the
time for sowing lawns, and low sapling-
fences herald hedges. In honor of the occa-
sion the Mayor of Essendon, W. B. Reid,
and his wife, who is a sister of knight
Alexander Peacock’s wife, invited the civic
fathers and their womenfolk and other
important local people to take afternoon-
tea in a palm-decked marquee. The league
served the afternoon brew in another mar-
quee, which sported a great deal of white
and blue. Mrs. Reid’s sapphire-blue crepe
de Chine was allied to a small matching
straw hat and a necklet of ermine. In the
mayoral reserve the orchestra of the Esseu-
don Operatic Society held forth, and the
Essendon band and a merry-go-round added
to the medley of cheerful sounds. There
were about 50 events on the afternoon’s pro-
gramme, including a parade of decorated
canoes. Ladies’ rowing clubs were repre-
sented by five crews; and the girls bent
to their oars, egged on by directions
yelled through a megaphone by their girl
trainer. Thrilling and picturesque were
the canoe races, in which the contestants
stood. In the big crowd of spectators were
councillor A. F. Showers, largely responsible
for the planning of the improvements, Mrs.
Showers, Mrs. Drakeford, the Leslie Scotts,
Mr. and Mrs. Renfrew and Mrs. Olney.
Here is musician George Findlay, who,
despite the terrible handicap of blindness,
has graduated at Melbourne Uni. as a
Bachelor of Music. He is an able performer
on organ or
piano, a suc-
cessful teacher
of these in-
strument s,
and a com-
poser. An ex-
pupil of the
School for the
Blind at St.
Ivilda - road.
Mr. Findlay
later studied
under E. H.
Nickson and
F. W. Home-
wood at the
Uni. C o n.,
where he got
his training
by win ni n g
compe t f t i v e
schola r s h i p s.
L i s t e ners-in
know his
touch well ,and he is an orchestra soloist.
In his wife (Amy England that was, a
Uni. graduate) Mr. Findlay has a partner
who gives him great aid in his profession,
for she is also a musician. Talent above the
ordinary, an unusually sensitive ear and the
big musical library in Braille have contri-
buted to Mr. Findlay’s winning battle against
disheartening odds. The picture is from
the Sarony studios.
Profits of a well-patronised gymkhana in
the paddocks of Mrs. Herbert Embling’s
hunting lodge at Mt. Eliza were divided be-
tween the Melbourne Children’s Hospital in
town and the Frankston Orthopaedic Hos-
pital. There was an attendance of over
500. The organising committee was headed
by knight George Fairbairn and his lady,
and Lud Mayor Smith and Mayoress Dyer
were among the spectators. Refreshments
were attended to by a committee in which
Mrs. James Lambic, Mrs. Wallace Mitchell,
Mrs! Barry Thomson, Mrs. George Hume
and Mrs. E. M. Cornfoot were notable
workers.
Violinist Stanley Adams is back again in
Melbourne after a lengthy sojourn in the
U-S.A. In San Francisco he was professor
of his instrument at the Arrillaga Musical
College, but the climate was not beneficial
to his mother’s health, so he resigned and
returned to Australia. Mr. Adams, who was
a diploma student of the Albert-street Con.
in Marshall Hall’s time, is returning to the
teaching staff of the Con., a position he held
before he left these shores.
This year’s Semco needlework show drew
a great number of entries, and the stand-
ard was even and high. New South Wales
exhibitors were very successful. Principal
prize went to Mrs. Page, of Newcastle, for
a large table-cover scattered with rosy
cherries upon black ovals, linked up with
blue true-lovers’ knots. Arthur Griffiths, a
returned soldier at Randwick Military Hos-
pital, won a third prize for embroidery.
Mrs. A. G. Montague, of Richmond River
(N.S.W.), collected a first prize for a filmy
Irish crochet bordered cloth, worked on an
original design. Australian flowers figure
in the crochet that earned Doris Lyle, of
Carlton, the second prize.
Now that the vice-regal shack at Mal-
vern which Governors occupied since Fed-
eration has been converted into a girls’
school, it is becoming customary for the
modest mansion v;hich Lieut.-Governor Irvine
has rented from the Mackinnons at the corner
of Acland and Anderson streets, South
Yarra, to be referred to as “Government
House.” So that it won’t be necessary for
the Very Best to travel even that far to
keep in touch, the visitors’ book is also avail-
able at the Old Treasury, Spring-street —
not in the draughty entrance corridor, as
heretofore, but around the corner in the
space reserved for vice-royalty and its small
staff.
Ola. Cohn’s endeavor to provide kiddies
who frequent Fitzroy Gardens with a fairy
tree similar to that in London’s Kensington
Gardens is meeting with unexpected set-
backs. She was getting along famously with
the carving of the numerous figures with
which she intends to cover the mammoth
red-gum stumps, when some person or per-
sons unknown amused themselves by chip-
ping bits off. This is tfie second time the
work has been tampered with in this way.
There was a flutter of excitement in society
circles last week at the announcement of
the engage-
ment of Mar-
gery Falkiner
and John
Hamilton
Fitts. The
good - looking
mis s, wh ,i
takes after her
mother in this
respect, is
third daughter
of the late
Norman Falk-
iner, pastoral-
ist, and for a
very little
while a pillar
of the Plush
Chamber, and
of Mrs. Falk-
iner of
city. Miss’
Fa Ikin e r’s
fiance is • the
youngest son of Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton
Fitts. Broothorn made the picture.
Sorrento, the scene of Susie Tolhurst’s
latest golfing victory, was named by the
late Charles Gavan Duffy, who saw in it a
resemblance to the Neapolitan resort. It
was George Coppin, the actor, who made
the place popular. He owned a fair slice
of. land there and took a very keen interest
in municipal affairs. He was responsible
for the founding of the Bay steamer service,
the building of baths, a hotel, a tramline and
many other improvements. Melba made one
of her very first appearances at the Sor-
rento Mechanics’ Institute. The very early
history of the spot records that it was, for
some months in 1803, a convict settlement.
Madame Crivelli, wearing floral chiffon
that mingled shades of blue, poured tea at
her home at Albert Park for Frangoise
Mores. The good-looking young French-
woman was in ninon patterned in pastel
shades on a sunset-pink ground, topped by
a largish ecru straw hat. Bertha Ballenger
accompanied her.
Mr. and Mrs. D. York Syme’s daughters
Mary and Jean were hostesses at a young
people’s dance at the, GrosvenOr on Friday
night, when their parents were on hand to
give support, Mrs. Syme carrying a posy of
crimson roses against her goblin-blue chiffon.
Some grey fur embellished Mary’s frock of
deep pink ninon, and her sister was in
plumbago-blue lace. Among the guests was
Cara Holmes Hunt, who is off to England
this week with her mother by the Narkunda.
Garda Howse, due to pledge her troth to
Dudley Brunton about the time this Page
is going to press, has been attending a
number of farewell entertainments. The
newly-weds will honeymoon in Europe, trav-
elling by the Narkunda. _ The five brides-
maids, who include her sister Eril and the
bridegroom’s sister Gladys, said their good-
byes over luncheon at the Australia. Mr.
and Mrs. Aubrey Gibson had a tea-party
in honor of the two.
A farewell party was given by the W.
Mortills to Mr. and Mrs. M. Belz (she was
Dr. Marjorie Hughes), due to sail on the
23rd on an extended visit to Europe. Tay
Creggan was decked with gorgeous flowers
and there was dancing. A musical pro-
gramme was contributed to by pianists Henry
Penn and Raymond Lambert, songbirds
Molly Warden and Madame Heseleva and
violinist Peter Bornstein. Mr. Bornstein,
who came to Australia with Pavlova, re-
mained in this country as a member of the
staff of the Elder Con., in Adelaide. Mr
and Mrs. E. L. Eiernan, the George Bells,
Mons. E. Bisang, Consul for Switzerland,
and Reg Bradley and his wife were among
the 30 guests.
For her recital at the Assembly Hall on
Saturday, Frangoise Mores was poured
into dull gold lame. She wore no jewel-
lery, and her black hair, devoid of bandeau
or permanent wave, was combed off her fore-
head to coil on the nape of her neck. Lots
of flowers were laid at her feet, and there
they stayed, for she dared not risk a thorn
scratch or a stray drop of moisture on her
precious Gagliani by gathering them up.
Glimpsed in the fur-coated audience—the
night was cool —were. the Crivellis, Mrs.
Percy Blackbourn and Helen Rennie, Mrs.
J. T. Tweddle and her two daughters, Mr.
and Mrs. E. C- Dyason and Mrs. R, de B.
Ker, of Wyaldra (N.Q.). Mdlle. Mores set
out for Egypt on Sunday, joining the Jervis
Bay in Adelaide.
Defying superstition Joan, daughter of
Albert Keep, of Toorak, wore green when
she became the wife of Keith, eldest son of
Justice Macfarlau, at the Grammar School
Chapel. Her georgette gown of verdant
hue was set off by a panama hat of a darker
shade of the same color, and she carried
masses of deep red roses. Peggy Macfarlan
was attendant ’maid in chiffon that mingled
grey and soft yellow tints, topped by grey
millinery with a plume blending both hues.
After-rejoicings were staged at the Keep
home, Albany-road.
The , engagement has been announced of
Major Edric . Percival Henty, son of Mrs.
Harry Plenty, of South Yarra. and Betty
Wilkinson, daughter of the late Alfred Wilkin-
son, of Adelaide,, and of Mrs. Robert Plelby,
who resides at Ardoch, East St. Ivilda. The
bridegroom comes, of the clan that made
pioneering history in this State.
Mr. and Mrs. Rupert de Burgh Ker,
whose station home is in North Queensland,
have brought their five-year-old Patricia
with them and arc holidaying in Melbourne-
Mrs. Tver was well known in the musical
world as contralto Phyllis Lett.
From South Australia :
At the Oriental Hotel last week a bachelor dinner
was given to Arnold Rowley by his men friends prior
to his departure for Sydney, where he has - an altar
date with Ada Charlton. The men are getting almost
as much feted as the girls now in the matter of
pre-matrimonial parties. Captain T. - E. Barr-Smith-
gave Dr. Creagh Smeaton a dinner, and so did Dr.
A. Britten-Jones.
The Glasgow lady is over from Melbourne on a
visit. She is the guest of Mrs. Hugh McLachlan at
Glenelg; her daughter, Mrs. B. McLachlan, of Para-
too station, is with her.
The Foundation Day A.R.C. meeting was well
attended. Mr. James Hall (chairman) and his two
pretty daughters entertained at. afternoon-tea. Miss
Muriel Hall wore a bottle-green patterned erOpe de
Chine frock and a straw hat to match; her sister
was also in a figured silk ensemble, and a small
black hat. The Mayor and Mayoress were among
those present. Mrs. Glover looked well in a beige
and navy patterned crepe de Chine with a hat en
suite.
Mr. de Burgh Persse and his daughter, Miss Betty
Persse, have returned to their home in Queensland,
after being the guests of his Ex. and Lady Hore-
Ruthven for a few days at Marble Hill.
Mrs. Surrey Dane, w'ho recently arrived from
England with the intention of establishing branches
of the Soroptimist movement in Adelaide, was enter-
tained by the Women’s Non-party Association at
its rooms on North-terrace. She was also the guest
of members of the Lyceum Club at afternoon-tea.
The marriage of Mr. Hugh Wilson, of the Eastern
Extension Telegraph Company, and Kathleen, eldest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. Bagot, was celebrated
very quietly at St. John’s Church, Halifax-street,
Adelaide, last week.
Westralia’s toot: —
The South-West tennis tournament attracted a
crowd for the long week-end at Bunbury. After the
wind-up dance most cars turned their headlights
homeward, thus saving time and dodging a hot trip
in daylight. For those who stayed at home, racing
at headquarters drew only a sparse sprinkling, but
the beaches were crowded.
A boiling day and high-priced seats did not prevent
a multitude from watching international tennis at
King’s Park on the opening day. The drink tent
couldn’t cope with the rush, but taps scattered among
petunia and rose beds and banks of gorgeous shrubs
helped to keep thirst at bay. Sinclair McGibbon
was enthroned under the official umbrella. Daughter
Rita, wearing white with touches of red and a green
underbrim to her millinery, was ip the pavilion. A
noticeable frock was -Jean Loton’s royal blue with
yoke and upper sleeves of ecru lace. Gwenyth
Ambrose, just returned from abroad, was in a blue
sports suit; Jessie Meares wore pink diagonal stripes ;
Gladys Hadley knotted a green scarf across the neck
of her white frock; Frances Corbet wore a blue
floral design ; Betty Wood’s linen was figured in
blue; Mrs. Jack Stodart wore beige and a little pink
hat over one ear ; Mrs. Percy White chose a flowered
garment; Yvonne Brinkley was in white with floppy
millinery.
Judy Harper and Herbert George Hamersley
stepped forth upon a life partnership from the
portals of the Guildford Grammar School chapel. A
sheaf of gladioli cast a golden glow upon the bride’s
parchment-tinted taffetas made with a skirt of
rippling frills and touches of ninon upon the corsage.
A Limerick-lace veil, woven 150 years ago, cascaded
into a train. Three ’maids, Dora de Witt, lole and
Gretchen Harper, wore floating pale green georgettes
cut with decollete backs and girdled with silver.
Eau-de-nil tulle veils were filleted upon their heads
with silver leaves and they carried posies of gold
flowers. The O. W. Harper couple spread toasts at
their Guildford home.
Mrs. Hilton Wood, with daughters Peggy and
Betty and Hetty Forbes, is off for a holiday in
Ceylon.
From beyond Bass Strait: —
The Gov.-Gen. and his lady spent a few days in
Launceston, where they were given the invariable
civic reception. After a day at the Newham races
they came on to Hobart and saw the Westralian
horse, Second Wind, run away with the King’s Cup
race.
With the arrival of the Canberra, Australia and
Albatross things are brightening up on the social
side. Many officers’ wives have accompanied
their husbands to the Speck, and are renewing old
acquaintanceships and- making new ones.
Racegoers sweltered at. the Launceston Cup. There
wasn’t a breath of wind to disturb the big hats
and the flowing frocks were allowed to flow without
being whipped round knees and ankles. Chairman
and Mrs. G. E. Clemons entertained a crowd in the
committee-room, where Mrs. Andrew Raeburn (wife
of the club’s sec.) was responsible for the decora-
tions of sunset-pink snapdragons in pottery bowls.
Mrs. Clemons wore black georgette with small black
and beige hat. Mr. Tom Lyons and party went up
from the south, also the J. A. Millers and the
Claud Boags. Among well-known northern folk were
Mayor and Mayoress Monds, the R. C. Fields, Dr.
and Mrs. C. G. Thompson, the S. Youls, Mr. and
Mrs. Alec Boyes, the T. A. Fields, the C. K.
Stackhouses, Mrs. Guy Meredith, the G. Grubbs, the
H. P. Harrisons, the L. A. Cuffs, Mrs. Doolan,
Senator and Mrs. Millen, Mrs. G. H. Hogg, Misses
Ishbel Hogg, Lois Ritchie, the Mackinnon girls,
J. Wilks, M. Gibson, P. Williamson, the Geo.
Craggs, the N. Gatenbys, Meg Cameron, the Frank
Browns and the Hubert Dowlings.
Three Hobart artists, Mabel Hookey, Blanche
Murphy and Isobel Oldham, exhibited an interesting
collection of Tasmanian scenes in oils and water-
colors, and Dora Hookey showed some artistic photo-
graphs, both landscapes and interiors. Blanche
Murphy’s study of a cornfield full of stooks in
glowing sunset light was delightful; Miss Oldham’s
“The Derwent at Gretna’’ is full of clear color and
charm, and perhaps the best of Mabel Hookey’s
efforts are “The Yard,” exhibited at the Paj-is
Salon, and a study called “King’s Corner,” with
some beautiful light and shade effects.
Lieut.-Gov. Njcholls and his lady were present at
Ursula Jarrett’s violin and song recital. Performers
were Miss Jarrett (violin), Mrs. Norman Blain
(mezzo), Mdme. Helen George and Margaret Burcham
(pianists). The programme was almost entirely of
French composers, except for the songs, and the
big audience voted the concert one of the best for
years.
The Howard Buchanans staged a pre-Cup week
dance at the Continental, when about 80 young
things had a good time. Mrs. Buchanan received
in a frock of black- and pink-flowered chiffon.
Daughters Margaret and Jean, the latter this
season’s deb, were in currant-red lace and green- and
pink-flowered chiffon respectively.
A northern engagement is that of Josephine, only
chick of Mr. and Mrs. J. Wilks, Newstead, and the
Rev. Philip Lee, Croydon (Eng.). The bridegroom-
to-be has been visiting his parents in the Speck
recently.
Dorothea, younger daughter of the Theodore Rus-
sells, Roslyn, Dunedin, and William Fleetwood, eldest
son of Capt. Marriott, M.H.A., and Mrs. Marriott,
Burnie, announce their engagement.
Violinist Nora Williamson (N.S.W.) and her
mother have been holidaying on Mt. Wellington.


1
m
w
K
m
rj)
SYDNEY
to LONDON
From the
Modernistic photography applied
to a modern skyscraper; the
Palm-Olive Building in Chicago.
Tom-toms of Fiji to the Choirs of Westminster
...AMERICA
A charming descendant of the California
dons, in the costume of Old Spain.
COMING
OVERSEAS EVENTS
NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE
CONVENTION
Honolulu . . . May 4 to 6, 1932
EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS
Dublin, Ireland, June 23 to 26,
1932
Book via MATSON for the utmost
in travel comfort, pleasure and
convenience.
A JOURNEY of strange, romantic
contrasts; the red roofs of Auck-
land ... woolly-headed children of
a cannibal race stevedoring on the
Suva docks . . . the sheltered, oval
harbour of Pago Pago . .. lei-wreathed
Hawaiians greeting you with melo-
dious “ Alohas” ... San Francisco,
proud, golden gateway to America.
Through the primitive witchery of the
South Seas to the modern splendour
of the United States.
Matson liners, swift and splendidly
equipped, carry you over this magic,
sun-splashed trail to San Francisco.
From .here you have ycur choice of
many routes across America. You
may arrange complete details before
sailing.
Sophisticated Hollywood, living in the
silver dazzle of the cinema screen . . .
busy Los Angeles, bubbling with life
and energy . . . the rare, sweet air of
the lofty Rockies . . . days of desert
horizons ... vast reaches of gilt-
tipped grain . . . Chicago, capital of
inland commerce . . . and New York,
the stupendous climax, the city-that-
couldn’t-be —but is!
May we send you an illustrated booh •
let and full particulars about this
extremely interesting route?
Write to Dept. Al.
the oceanic steamship company
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney. Tek: B 798 1-3
Wild Honey.
MARGARET FANE
AND HILARY LOFTING TELL MORE OF MARTY
AND HIS FRIENDS IN THE HOG—ITS OLD MR. DENDY THIS TIME.
OUTSIDE in the ’Loo the afternoon sun-
shine was lazy and kind, as always;
something of its quality seemed to
have come here into the shop—to be stand-
ing on guard, as it were, Avhile Marty
waited for the rest of old Jack Dendy’s
order. Jack’s frail eyes were faintly puzzled
under their weariness.
“Some sort of a bit o’ sweet-stuff, I sup-
pose, Marty. A small tin of gooseberry—no,
there’s half of last week’s tin left”....
Marty looked along the counter and back,
at the shelves. “I tell you what,” he said,
a faint returning energy in his voice; “Ayhat
about honey?” He picked up a little shapely,
yelloAV jar. “This is a new line, Jack, and
it’s good. And cheap, too. Small, you see—
not enough of it to make you sick of it. And
the jars are natty—keep your sugar or the
like in Avlien the honey’s all gone.”
Jack looked indifferently at the cunning
little jar and shook his head. “Honey’s
A\ T orse than jam, Marty. It's got no taste.’
Marty put the jar back on the shelf. Jack
was beginning to show his age at last. “Well,
how about”
But old Jack Avas speaking again. “I got
spoilt for honey, Marty, about seventy years
ago.” For a moment his thin voice seemed to
be travelling o\ T er all those years to Marty
'acre in the shop, so far away it sounded. "Did
you ever go hunting Avild honey when you
were a boy?”
“No. I’m city-bred.”
“Ah. Then you missed something. Maybe
you’re out at sun-up, Avhen it's cool as yet,
though you can feel the heat that’s coming—
you an’ a couple of other boys an’ a couple
o’ dogs. Not doin’ anything—just pokin’
about in the bush, nosin’ round because you
like it an’ there’s a feeling anything might
happen. Adventurous, like. Yelling and climb-
ing trees and cuffing the dogs. A bit of a
wind comes stealin’ up, and you stop yelling
and lift your nose. Yes ; it’s if—wild honey,
heavy on the breeze, strong and sweet, and
yet not too SAA-eet”....
Where the shop had been Marty thought
he could see a steady-eyed little boy, running
doggedly through the,vast aisles of the bush,
one thing only in liis heart. Like a pirate or
Christopher Columbus —«-
“It, spoils you for honey, that does,” Jack’s
thin dry voice was continuing, “an’ it spoils
you for gettin’ old and the pension and —
and”.... the spasm of energy Avcnt out of
the tired eyes. “There’s nothing like
that iioav, Marty ; nothing like that’ll ever
come back. All adventure’s gone for good,'
like the Avild honey.” lie glanced at the
little, pile of packages Marty had collected on
the counter. “Better put in a small tin o’
jam, I suppose, Marty. Make it plum, for
a change, will you? Change is a bit rare
these days.”
Marty Avatehed the afternoon sunlight of
Brazier-street: receive old Jack. Close on
SO. old Jack was —and fancy remembering
wild honey seventy years ago!
All sorts of memories, near and far, Avere
nibbling at Jack Dendy, walking slowly up
Brazier-street with his parcel. But in the
end they all boiled-down to one sharp regret.
As he had told Marty, the chance of adven-
ture, of any kick in anything, Avas gone. You
were an old finished man now, stiff in the
joints and not feeling too good, walking up
a hill with your scran for the week; you
could see the end, and pretty nearly every
hour before the end. The lift that used to
come on the breeze with the scent of wild
honey—if he could feel that once, just once
more before the dull days crept round to the
last dull day and ceased for ever! These old
shabby streets, the blur of the houses all alike,
as the days were all alike —how many times
had he Avalked slowly up and doAvn them!
Doaa-ii to Marty’s and back to Mrs. Morley’s
—always the same. Even the shadows length-
ening on the pavement Avere the same
shadows as yesterday’s; to-morrow’s would
be the same again, and the next day’s. Just
once more! He’d always gone for something
with a kick in it and passed by the dull
safe way; even as a kid after Avild honey
he’d taken his larruping and known the
long search and the honey were worth it.
They always were, all through life.
How many times had he walked round
this back Avay, into the house on his Avay up
to his r00m?.... The shadows were longer
now, lying across the narrow asphalt yard
Avith a bar of sunlight here and there. There
Avas a bit of a chill in the air—getting near
to the turn of the season again; he Avas
tired, too. He sat doAvn on the threshold
of the back door and glanced across at
Laurie, standing by the clothes-prop. Quiet
and a hit listless she looked—not like herself.
“You don’t look too good lately, Laurie,”
he said. “What’s happened you, eh?”
“She's a fool, Mr. Dendy,” Mrs. Morley’s
strong voice cut in behind him. “That’s
what’s happened her.”
Laurie looked across at her mother, a
shadowy obstinacy in her eyes, but she said
nothing. lake the rest of the people in the
residential, she was used to her mother ‘say-
ing what she meant.
“It’s this Albert,” Mrs. Morley continued,
wiping her hands on her apron and glaring
at Laurie. “She wants to marry him, if
you please.”
“I thought she was going to—you mean
the taxi-driver, don’t you?”
“Taxi-driver!” Her voice weary with
scorn, Mrs. Morley came down into the yard
like a massive implacable destiny. “He isn’t
even a taxi-driver noAv. Look—what do you
think of it, Mr. Dendy? Here’s him with a
good steady job. making good money and
safe for life, and he goes and throws it up—
too dull for him behind the counter, says
me lord; not enough life in it for him! He
wants a taxi —but more runnin’ about and
time to smoke a cigarette or two.”
Though this was addressed to him. it was
so clearly intended only for Laurie that
Jack, being tired, said nothing in reply.
“And then what?” Mrs. Morley Avas look-
ing at Laurie noAA r . “Before you can turn
round he’s got his car all rattled to pieces,
sells it for next to, nothing, and goes up
country! Shoulders liis “bluey and walks
out on it. H'e wants a .man’s life, • lie says,
and please the taxi Avas as dull as'the shop'!” '
Laurie stirred suddenly at the gibe in
the last sentence, and her mouth became as
hard as her mother's looked sometimes. But
she said nothing.
“And now me lord’s got a job on some
tuppenny selection in the Never-Never and
he wants Laurie as well!” Reaching this
climax of Albert’s effrontery, Mrs. Morley
turned from Laurie to Jack blinking help-
lessly up at her from his step. “What do.
you think of it?” she demanded.
“You’ll have me an old maid, if you don’t
watch it, mother,” Laurie, broke her silence
at last. “Freda and Sally are both married,
and Freda’s two years younger than me.
I’m the only one left”
“ Yes, and good steady men they married—
they were a credit to me, those two girls.
There’s George been behind Mr. Clement’s
counter for more than nine years, his right-
hand man—knows as much about the pro-
vision business as lie docs himself, old
Clement says.”
“All men are not the same, mother”——
“Too right they’re not. Some want a
steady job of work, and others only want
a _ kick in it, like Albert says. In the end
it’s the kick out of it they get.”
Laurie , shrugged her shoulders . and
returned to her silence, the shadowy obsti-
nacy in her eyes seeming to rebuke her as
a fool for breaking it.
“Adventure, that’s all they want. And
where does it get them? Look at Freda’s
Ted. Over 13 years lie’s been in the same
job, from a boy up; and, you mark my
words, before you can turn round he'll be.a
partner! Look at the house she’s got, and
every pound paid up on it, and everything
of the best. Didn’t he take her to. Tasmania
for the honeymoon? Would adventure, this
‘kick in it,’ get you a thing like that!”
“Tasmania—honeymoon in Tasmania? Why
any tame pussy-cat of a man”—-—old Jack
had said the words before lie realised that
it was his .voice. Having, said them, however,
lie came into it as if he meant it. "That’s
only pickin’ up a bit of money, Mrs. Mpfley.
Any fool can do it, if he spends a few years
thinking of it and nothing else. It’s what
a man is, not how slick. he is at pickin’
up” ■ ;
A vast stunned silence, heavy with name-
less peril, . came withering into the yard!
Mrs. Morley clearly couldn't believe her ears:
she was not too sure even of her bewildered
indignant eyes staring . thunder-struck at
Jack’s old tired face. Laurie’s listless head
lifted and stared also at old Jack.
But he plunged in scorn into the menac-
ing silence, his frail eyes deep and strong for
this moment. “Honeymoon in Tassy!” he
mocked, getting up from his step and wmlking
out into a bar of lingering sunshine, the
sudden life in his stiff slirunkeu figure niaa-
ing him look tall and firm. “What the blazes
is that?”
“Listen, Mr. Dendy!” Mrs. Morley recov-
ered and seemed to swoop at him. “If
you”
But he brushed that nonsense away too.
“No, you listen,” he told her. “If you had it
over again, would you give up the ‘kick in it,’
the ups and downs that’s built you. able to
marry off two girls—three girls—and still
run a residential that’s full all the year
round?”
“That’s nothing,” she said. “I’ve got me
health”-—-
“And calling it nothing at your age,”.'he
went on. “Of coursp it’s nothing—the ‘kick’
made it nothing ; not honeymoonin’ in Tassy
and being put to sleep for the rest of your
life. Laurie doesn’t want to be put to sleep.
She wants the ‘kick,’ like you did.”
Mrs. Morley could only glare murderously
at him. A glow . had crept into Laurie’s
eyes, warm on Jack’s steady face.'
“What have this Ted and Freda got to
remember of their honeymoon in Tasmania?
Which pub cost ’em more than the other
pub, where the tucker was good and where
it wasn’t, what the sea-trip was like—rough
or smooth? That’d be about the lot,
wouldn’t it? And what have you got to
remember of your honeymoon?—-'if you had
one and didn’t bog in right away with your
man on some selection and work all out
from the start.”
A sudden shadow veiling the glare showed
him that the long shot was a good one.
“You can remember the times when he
wanted you to brace him up and tell ’im
it was bound to tome right in the end, the
times when it did come right, the times when
it went to the pack. You both stood on your
own feet and no one was put to sleep.”
The softened, veiled gaze came back from
far away and rested gently on old Jack’s
urgent vivid face in those gathering after-
noon shadows.
“Why,” she began uncertainly and fell
silent again, Avatcliing him.
“Did vou ever taste wild honey?” he
demanded.
“.’Course 1 did,” she said. “Why?”
“You’ll remember tlie high windy flavor it
has, how the eucalyptus puts a bite into it
and yet keeps it sweet to the tooth. Not
all sweet —that wouldn’t be any good; but
like as if the cruel heat and tlie glare was
in it and feeding you, as well as the sweet
that the bees made. It’s hard, and soft,
too. Did you ever taste any honey to come
up to it?”
"I don’t know as I ever did, come tt
think of'it,” she confessed. “Why?”
' And you’ve got to find it,” lie went on,
.‘to track it down and hunt till you’ve got
it. And the.huntin’s the best part of it.”
Ihe inspiration faltered, seemed to fade and
slip away in the tide of silence that fol-
lowed.
Abruptly, Jack Avas tired out. He shuffled
slowly over to the doorstep again and sat.
down. Presently in this long pause of
silence lie became aware that Mrs. Morley’s!
strong fingers were folding tlie hem of her'
apron iff a dim caress. He glanced up from,
her hand and saw that her eyes were watch-
ing Laune with a half smile in them, and!
s wa *fi. n g eyes were watching her.
Righto, ’ she said at last. “There’s a loti
ta J“- Gome in, Laurie girl. If this
Albert she paused and said no more.
That was a good job. He undid .Marty's
parcel and put the packages in the; little
cupboard iu his room. • Laurie would get
her man, and stay friends with her mother
—would go up-country and fight it out. Ah
well, some people had all the luck. Look
at the adventure in that, to be going up-
country to fight it out—look at the kick in
J °
H; had a bit of a wash and a bit of a
rest afterwards in his big chair. There
didn’t seem much to do until tea-time—there
never did seem much to do, of course. The
evening papers would be coming in in a bit;
he might walk up to William-street—maybe
run across Kavanagh and hear what sort
of a day he’d had. Kavanagh was a good
adventurous fellow; he liked having a yarn
with him. But he’d rest a bit longer first;
there was a sort of a shaky feeling after
that set-to in the yard.
The evening traffic to Darlinghurst was
at its peak when he began to get near to
William-street. There ,seemed to be thou-
sands of cars dodging in all directions, tak-
ing their short cuts ; you couldn’t get away
from them. It was always a bit confusing
at the change of light. He crossed the
head of Brazier-street' cdrefully, after wait-
ing for a lull in the storm of cars; but a
two-seater slipped round the corner at the
last moment, and he only just managed to
hop out of its way—he had toi be pretty
spry to do it. That shaky feeling got hold
of him again when he did reach the pave-
mont—gave him a bit of a turn, that
sudden hop did.
In the paper-shop Denis Kavanagh looked
up from the paper, his eyes aglow. He
cocked his hat and beamed at Jack Dendy.
“Well, ■ then,” he said, “it’s himself. And
how's Mr. Dendy this beautiful evening?”
“Not too bad,” Jack told him, “and not
too good either—l'm tired.”
Some quality in his voice made Kavanagh
look at him again. “It's not too clever
ye’re looking, either. I'll walk down with
ye. and”——
In Riley-street, out in the air once more,
the shaky feeling passed. “Did you have a
good day, Denis?” Jack asked.
Denis, walking slowly beside him, glanced
at; him ' again. “For once.” he said, the
old large air coming into his manner, ‘‘l
did. I got a first and two seconds for a
place. It’s the street I’m feeling belongs
to me.”
“That's good Tt i-,v.i- ; nf - n
doesn’t it?” “ ‘
.. T . r ' . • .
d J ou ’ ra T,? S , a , game
tlia t only want’s patience. 11l be taking
a “ lca „ l ' ttle . r ; and T , that ,’ s a
& T f vA k P OWS Ive beel }
! ‘ i ivfn bac c ays we are at
- Y y ? ,? om 1 e j u and take a
' » s ® tbe uck f° r me-
lnank ye. I will—l seem to be all sixes
and sevens this evening. A drop of rum
would -
In the front room Denis gave him- the
drink. “Yes,” lie said, the magic light flick-
cring into his handsome Irish eyes that were
watching old Jack, “patience and the luck of
it are all a man needs. You take the rough
with the smooth, and keep a stout heart”
be paused, staring at Jack’s white face,
Putting down the bottle he opened the door,
“Michael!” he called. “Slip out and tele-
phone the doctor. To come on the run—
old Mr. Dendy”——
The armchair seemed to sink into the floor,
and then to be floating. Somewhere a
muffled thunder was pounding; it was dark
and misty. Jack strove for a grip on this,
Why was it?.... Suddenly the truth
stormed into his mind.... Here it was!
Well, it wouldn’t be lingering, that was
one thing; it would be quick. There was
Denis at the door again, his face all grave,
The face slipped away,
What was coming now.
Another thought came, swift and light,
Jack’s eyes opened, gleaming with surprise
and hope. “I never thought o’ that,” he
muttered.
Denis came over. “It’s all right, me
dear,” he said,
“Yes—it’s all right”....
Denis put his head down. “What’s that
ye say?” he murmured,
“The—the adventure.... coming”....
A great tide of perfume rose, full of tfie
cruel heat and the glare, full of the wild-
honey sweetness—on an early-morning
breeze, though, in the 'Loo. the shadows
had all closed in, night being at hand.


U X'
f j n
§®
Pelmauism 24 Years
in the
Southern Hemisphere
The Pelman Institute has been
established in the Southern
Hemisphere for 24 years.
During that time it has
been under the same uninter-
rupted management, and has
enrolled over 31,000 men and
women.
The Headquarters of the
Institute are, and always have
been, in London. It has
throughout the world over
650,000 members.
Unqualified Approval.
Pelmanism has the unquali-
fied approval of many leaders
of thought and action, includ-
ing two noted Australians, Sir
Herbert Austin and Dr. F. W.
Norwood, D.D. Lord Riddell,
Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch, Mr.
Edgar Wallace, Mr. E. F.
Benson, Lord Baden-Powell,
Professor Gordon Tanner and
many others are quoted in
“The Efficient Mind.”
No Outside Representatives.
The Pelman Institute has no
outside representatives. The
relationship that exists be-
tween the Institute and. its
members .starts with the first
inquiry, which is regarded
strictly as a confidential com-
munication.
The Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane (corner
Market St.), Melbourne.
The ONE DAY MORE
in FEBRUARY
The extra day this month can be a day more for increasing your
material wealth and moral substance, an added day of found oppor-
tunity and happy accomplishment, or it may be just a day sent to
lengthen the depression.
Whatever happens that day the qualities in you, in yourself, will determine what you
do with it.
If you have energy, confidence, judgment, and courage, the extra day and the changing
times are just opportunities for showing your mettle. Routine, methods, regulations, goo
or ill fortune, all conditions and all happenings, have always been the material of which strong
men have built stepping-stones to success and happiness. More than ever to-day men who
think clearly, decide rightly and act wisely are wanted in every department of life and
business. Talkers are giving place to doers, and mass-thinkers to men of initiative and
resource.
Individuals stand out in any community and in any circumstances if they have the
following attributes and qualities:—
CONCENTRATION WILL POWER INITIATIVE
JUDGMENT SELF-CONFIDENCE ORGANISING POWER
DECISION PRESENCE OF MIND COURAGE
AND A RELIABLE MEMORY
These qualities make a strong personality. They are the base on which steadiness,
serenity, stability and cheerfulness rest. Whatever his occupation or education may be, they
are exhibited by every man who lives “intelligently and strongly.
It is the concern of Pelmanism to develop these attributes and qualities. If you feel
that they are latent in you, that extra days and all days should be days of found opportunity
and happy accomplishment, get in touch with the Pelman institute.
Pelmanism makes men Self-reliant and Self-possessed
PELMANISM is a training of the mind,
memory and personality. Its object is to
correct and overcome habits of mind and
faults of character which hold back other-
wise capable people. In it everything
that the greatest research workers have
discovered about the workings of the
human mind is made applicable to
everyday life—to your own circum-
stances and your own personality.
Pelmanism gives every man and woman
the means of developing the self-reliance,
self-possession and self-confidence which
come only from the assurance which
mental and emotional control gives.
You are sure to be inter-
ested in at least one of the
people who, in “The Efficient
Mind,” speak highly of Pel-
inanisni from practical experi-
ence. It may be a prominent
personality who has captured
your imagination or it may
be a neighbor who has earned
your respect. Get a , copy of
“The Efficient Mind” now —
write at once.
“The Efficient Mind”
The Pelman Course of Training is fully described in “The Efficient .Mind,’’ which contains 76 .pages of
matter and illustrations of very great interest. Copies are posted free. Call or write for one. Inquiries
are regarded as confidential communications. The Pelman Institute has no outdoor representatives.
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE
Headquarters: iondon. for the Scientific Development of Mind,
Branches throughout Memory and Personality.
the " 0r,<1 3 GLOUCESTER HOUSE, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
(Corner of Market Street.)
650.000 World Pelmanists.
31,000 Australasian
Pelmanists.
CUT OUT AND POST TO-DAY.
Pelmanism may be mastered by giving to it 20
or 30 minutes a day for about three months.
There are twelve lessons in the course. It is
intensely interesting, and the results begin to
show within a week. It is taught by post.
To the Secretary, THE PELMAN INSTITI lE,
3 Gloucester House.- 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C .1.
Please send your free book, “The Efficient Mind.” In asking for it I incur no obligation.
NAME ••••'
POSTAL ADDRESS •, •• • •
Sl2
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
?HE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS ...
RATES; Australia —12 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas —12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/*
k>
»*
ft
\i€- >3>
0°
6
1>
lO
<V9
«*V>
& -
#■’
<*‘
** \>'V*
c*'-«V
.<- v ;
;0\ e ) fc ,
o^ v ,-i' e
i? O'O"
p '


I §te
II
r m
.
I
mm
f mm i
I vw¥i|- F,
...•■■
''■MSs.V.: .:
“*4‘£ v :-|
ik
mk
i
v *
m
mm
*1
* \
Illif.;
mm?'.
I
im
■
■>- fe:- a '"«H
, i '<w
<kmf *v4W
If 'H
•; .
:
m » */
- -
The Spirit of Tradition.
DEWARS
SCOTCH WHISKY
