

“Tell me why it is you always
drink Johnnie Walker”
■I
■mm.
mmm
msmi
sss
Hi
Bottled only in Bond under
Government supervision
for your protection.
“/CERTAINLY-here’s the
V_> answer take a drop of
Johnnie Walker neat... don t toss
it down just sip it quietly... let
it play about your palate. That s
the way to get the full benefit of
the old Highland malts it contains.
Do you notice the smoothness of it?
No bite in that whisky, is there?”
“There is not, definitely!”
“Well, that’s the influence of the
properly aged Highland
malts appreciated by
the many thousands that
go to make Johnnie
Walker the most
popular whisky in the
world.”
In full size and half bottles.
Also in concave flasks, 13oz.
and 6oz.
r-fr_j
0
W'
0
JOHNNIE WAkKER
SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHN WALKER Sc SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON and KILMARNOCK
The Bulletin
ď
Vol. 53.— N0. 2741.
Wednesday, August 24, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


r J”HE 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
I
UJD»Tf
This Book FREE to YOU!
• SEND, THIS COUPON —l—
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College
WO Bussell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bclletix. ’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 232
J-YSAGHT7
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Healthy Hair
Adds to
Youthful Beauty
Shampoo regularly with
Cutieura Soap preceded by appli-
cations of i’ulieura Ointment.
This will keep your scalp in a healthy
condition and a clean scalp is essential
to good. hair.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free. Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUM T 9 WOMEM
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINOHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealhnder,'' 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander'” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand,' London,
ALC.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
408-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“THE AGE”
Established, 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If .you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, j'ou miss one of the most vital features
in your earrtpaign, and ho advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford, to
take . that risk. . '
“THE AGE”
has over 119,000 daily - subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
t Tta&vie & *S c<&rvce ,
,3/unt S&Xie~J, 51
s S&te&n 7urCc4, ■ /*a
„ we iPurCf
TheAUSTRALASIAN
pN SALE ALL STATES 6°
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the- most popular 64-page woman's
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you Will never be without it.
It’s up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
a market-
for the manufacturer is presented in
a big centre. Thousands of poten-
tial customers gathered together
on a fraction of land. Whole-
sale and retail distributors
centred in accessible points.
A concentrated market for luxuries
nth a surrounding trade area in-
satiable in its demands. This martlet is
penetrated thoroughly and successfully by
“THE TELEGRAPH ”
Brisbane’s Leading Home Newspaper.
The manufacturer is more
often Wrong than right
when he says, “My bush
ness is different.” Often
it is exactly that differ-
ence which is fairly
crying out for expres-
sion in print.
7s that so with
you ?
itMi
x ; •••
>
MSSt
LEADS THE WAY
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Entirely without Prejudices
Literature in England has always oscil-
lated between reticence and plain speech,
smugness and hedonism. The Elizabethans
were responsible for the Puritans, the Puri-
tans for the dramatists of the Restoration,
and so on. There is a double reaction in
progress against the Victorians and
Edward ians, who, in addition to being
righteous, were often sociological or poli-
tical reformers. The outcome is a crop of
amoral novels which have no heroes or
heroines, support no cause, and neither
praise nor blame. The authors present an
aspect of life, but they don’t dogmatise
about motives or about the ethics of the
situations which arise from the characters’
behavior. Their method is to stand off
and say to the reader, in effect: “Here these
people are; take them or leave them. They
acted as I say, and it interests me to specu-
late about them, but any of the opinions I
happen to express may be wrong. The
adulteress might, have been a good wife in
other circumstances; the murderer was per-
haps a victim of ill-health and an unfortu-
nate environment. Let us be tolerant what-
ever else we are. Always remember that
not to understand all is to forgive all. And
don’t, expect a story with a definite be-
ginning and end, because modern writers
with any literary pretensions at all have
stopped writing that, kind of stuff.”
In Mean Streets.
The Case Is Altered, by William Plomer
(Hogarth Press, 7s. 6d.) , is a good example
of the contemplative novel. Some critics
dislike Mr. Plomer’s style—a “Saturday
Reviewer” called it “clumping”—but in it's
simplicity, which verges on baldness, it
exactly suits his themes. He is a dis-
tinguished poet, and the fact is constantly
revealed in his prose. The action takes
place in one of those London boarding-
houses which “smell of the past. stale cook-
ing, thwarted hopes and all the horrors of
life at its worst in the bourgeois backwaters
of Victorian England.” In this horrible
place, which is run on muddled lines by
a lovable, flamboyant Jewess with a crazy
husband, and Mrs. Gambitt, who, as a lady,
feels compelled to be as offensive as pos-
sible to the servants, is an odd collection of
poverty-harassed Londoners: Mrs. Pether-
ham-Porthr (“middle-aged... .just, enough
money to live on, nothing particular to do,
nothing in particular to look back on and
nothing in particular to look forward to”);
Miss Brixworth, who is “nice” and has seen
better days; Mr. and Mrs. Rudd (he is a
miserable little man who tries unavailirtgly
to win money in newspaper competitions';
she has a roving faithless eye), and Alston,
the central character. Alston is an invert
manque ; a type in which Mr. Plomer is
deeply interested. He is young, and has a
job in a fruiterer’s nearby. Amy Pascall,
who works at Pelagie’s, a milliner’s, is his
young lady. He is a reluctant lover. His
real interest is in Amy’s absent brother,
Willy, whose photograph is on the mantel-
piece of her home and whose picturesque
deeds are often discussed by the family.
A chance meeting with Willy leads to a
close friendship and alters Alston’s outlook
on life. Theif reactions to-each other are
described with rare delicacy; and the effect
of their association on Amy is handled
with equal subtlety. The other main study
—that of the Jewess’s unemployed husband
—is a good deal cruder. Fernandez is the
conventional sadist with a jealousy-urge who
has been sketched on bigger canvases by
modern French novelists. The story ends
as a story with the ruin of the boarding-
house and the dispersal of its patrons after
Fernandez murders his wife. A few days
later there is an election fight, in which
Pascall gets “a nasty cut on the hand from
a piece of glass falling from a broken
window.”
Alston tied up the place as carefully
as he could. In his eye there shone some-
thing like the bright, fanatical devotion of
the beardless Achilles kneeling to bind up
the wounded arm of Pat rod us, the two men
forming, for an instant of time and for ever,
alt image of courage, beauty and love.
There the author leaves them with a hint
that they may be “one little sign among
many” of a new order in which “it will be
rediscovered that friendship (between
men) can be a noble passion.”
Setf-Contemplation
In Perplexities, by E. R. Leigh (Faber:
The Roycroft, Sydney, Bs.), a middle-aged
woman reviews her career, and makes a
sort of examination of conscience, in the
form of a novel.
She is represented
as French by birth,
and the style is
appropriately
limpid and ironical.
Also she has that
complete absence of snobbery which is often
found in France where most of the classes
are rigidly compartmented, and which is so
disconcerting to the climbers of socially
fluid England. Self-portraits are all very
well in paint, but they seldom come off
in words. This one does. A picture is
gradually formed of a most delightful being.
She begins with a flirtatious youth. Then
she marries an Englishman, whom she wor-
ships, and is launched on a high tide of
passion. During this period, her thoughts
are fixed on sex; sex in all its manifesta-
tions. She is a faithful wife because, being
satisfactorily mated, she has no tempta-
tions to be otherwise; but she views those
who are different without hostility. The
editor of a stunt newspaper had written
of a book “I would rather give a dose of
prussic acid to any young boy or girl than
this book to read,” and so got it banned.
I had already read this book when the self-
appointed keeper of our morals saved the
nation from it. The harm as far as I was
concerned was done. I must confess that
the effect it had upon me justified to a
certain extent Mr. Editor’s fears. It made
me more tolerant towards the strange pas-
sions of the particular type described. I
realised that such people may be decent
human beings with an inexplicable (to list
taste in their love affairs. These may be
redeemed from their sensual basis, just as
our own are.. by friendship, devotion and
self-forgetfulness.
She is like that about everything—charit-
able, sensible, .judicial. When her children
come she gossips objectively about them.
Janet invariably brought her bottle up in
its entirety at 6 p.m. Everything had to
be changed and sponged.
Janet always smiled happily during these
operations; she neither missed' the meal nor
minded the fuss. As far as we could make
out she was enjoying herself. I now susp.ee
it was a stratagem to delay her bedtime.
Janet never liked to be withdrawn from
circulation.
Her husband dies, the children marry, she
faces old age with very little money but
unabated serenity. She has a penetrating
eye for shams. Marl he. her old teacher, is
a sham friend.
Her alleged affection for me is largely arti-
ficial. The fact that she does not know any-
thing about me, my thoughts, my fears, my
hopes, and is unaware of her ignorance, seems
to prove it. . . . She came to us because ther
was nowhere else to go. I knew this, o,
course, and accepted it. quite naturally. Iv-
she would rather burn than acknowledge it.
She sees' all her other friends, and her-
self, with similar detachment. Of course it
may be a work of imagination, but it reads
like an honest autobiography; in either
event it is a masterpiece of its impreten-
tious kind.
RED PAGE.
“Social Credit”
Things could not have fallen out bettoi
for Major Douglas if he had had the ordering
of them. From 1919, when he began to write,
he had been urging that what, was most the
matter with the world was deficiency of pur-
chasing power. Followed a time when the
stores of the world were glutted with goods;
yet millions of people went short because
they could not buy them. This seemed to
prove Douglas’s proposition—that what the
world is short of is purchasing power; and
because he offered a scheme for supplying
it, a scheme which would cost the people
not a penny, he won eager hearers instantly
During the war the Major, an engineer,
had a job in the Air Ministry, handling
accounts and costing operations; and as
soon as he was free he began to pour out
his theories. “Economic Democracy"
appeared in the first year of his missionary
activity; and few months have passed since
without some addition to the literature of
Social Credit, if not from the pen of the
Master, then from the eager typewriters
of his disciples. And opposite this literature
another has grown up, less ,in volume and
more fragmentary, pricking the Douglas
bubbles and sapping the Douglas founda-
tions.
The great trouble with most of these eco-
nomists is that they will use a jargon which
95 per cent, of their readers don’t under-
stand, though many of them will not admit
it lest they should be thought dull-witted.
The latest commentator, Lloyd Ross, of the
University of Otago, has not wholly escaped
the common failing in his Tickets Without
Goods, even though it sets out to be a
popular account of the proposals, with a
foreword by Professor Fisher, of the same
university (Is.). But at least Ross does try
to simplify the major’s propositions, the
essay is documented fully and the author
freely admits that most of the ills that
Poor continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISINGAn unmistakable part of every advertisement of “The Senior Store.”
> s and D°S
, „ rs > Dciir)'" icns ’ q ,7.i933
AS
w~Jv:
Raise M««
-rv»® *-£*«. c ,r« 'S
yo “U^‘'‘ to "°"w"' v '°' J Ts ‘
riot^'^s
AnvU o»V
POST FREE
Write To*day!
Nolo Ready —
-32 - PAGE CATALOGUE
FOR POULTRY FARMERS,
GRAZIERS, DAIRYMEN AND
BIRD AND DOG FANCIERS.
No obligation if you write for it!
Beekeepers’ Catalogue also sent!
Vital aids in the guidance of Right
Equipment.
The “Palace” Incubator
It makes poultry-raising a paying proposition!
Made with best quality copper circulating tubes,
ensuring a regular heat in every portion of the
hatching chamber. Self regulating.
50 egg size. Price, each ...... .... £5/15/-
100 egg size. Price, each £7/-/-
l£Xrox
*
=iNCUoATOff=*£:
y* **j€ r>
“Lanyon Simplex”
This will prove a profitable investment! Built
with either Galvanised Iron or Copper Tanks. AH
our Hot Water Machines have a top Nursery, or,
in other words, a Brooder, a special feature in our
Famous Hot Water Incubators. The Glass Front
of this top Nursery is removable, so as to enable
the operator to clean it out when necessary.
HOT AIR TYPE
30 egg £4/7/6
60 egg ... £5/10/-
120 egg ... £B/10/-
240 egg .. £l3/15/-
ďf
Anthony
Horderns'
Fulfilling the Needs of the
Man on the Land with Money-
saving, Labor-saving and
Time-saving aids like these
CXB
HyßMf Cl MUBIN
“UNI” Chaff cutter
No. 2 “Uni” Hand Chaffcutter, made by
Anthony Hordern and Sons. Rising Mouth,
7 fin. wide. Capacity, scwt. per hour. Floor
space, 6ft. x 3ft. 6in. Cuts two lengths,
1 in. and Jin. Weight, 2cwt. Price .. .
£9
BUY IT ON
OUR D.P.S.
If it is inconvenient to
pay the full price
simply send a deposit and
the goods will be set aside
for you at no extra cost.
By easy monthly payments
the article will become
yours and will be dis-
patched in the usual way.
Enquire for full details 1
MJR£
“UNI” New Mill
"Uni” New Grinding Mill. Hand-power, fitted
with patent flexible grinding plates. Suitable
for farmer, poultry-keeper, grocer, chemist or
domestic use. Will grind to a fine meal or
kibble all kinds of grain, coffee, drugs, charcoal,
cocoa,
oilcake,
oyster shells, dog biscuits,
etc., 701 b. Price ......
£5/5/-
“UNI” Cutter
No. 1 , "Uni” Cutter, made by
Anthony Horderns’. The “Uni*
Chaffcutter, with 7 Jin. mouth,
cuts two lengths, Jin. and Ji n *
Sturdily built on
steel legs. Price,
/»/» jj A I
c£,o f lUf “
“UNI” Shelter
“Uni” Sheller, made by Anthony
Hordern and Sons. Capacity, 20
bushels per hour. Strongly con-
structed wood frame, first quality
castings throughout, shaker sieve,
the handiest size for the small
maizegrower.
Price ......
£6/15/-
Sole Agents for
John Deere
Ploughshares
DttHt *
Genuine John Deere Steel
Shares are stamped in the
steel on the under side. Do
not accept inferior imitations!
All sizes are stocked, F 6, X 9,
F10.U12, 037, 251, 278, 295,
302, 303. Prices on applica-
tion.
FAMOUS PLANET Jr. HOE and CULTIVATOR
Invest in One of These Efficient Time Savers.
No. 8 Horse Hoe and Cultivator combined. The Planet
Jr. No. 8 Horse Hoe and Cultivator is one of the most
valuable time- and labor-saving tools available for the
use of the farmer. Has a steel wheel that does not clog,
a frame that is longer and higher than others; steel
standards that are so attached as to both brace the cul-
tivator and withstand strain; levers that operate quick }
and easily; a depth regulator. Equipment includes rout
3in. x Bin. cultivator steels, one 4in. x Bin. cultivator
steel, two 6in. hillers, one 7in. shovel, all especially
hardened; will give long service.
Price
£6/2/6
No. 7 Horse Hoe and Cultivator, similar to No. 8, witlv
out depth gauge. Price .. . £5/12/6
dMR»
Agricultural Dept., Fourth Floor. Carnage not paid hut Free DeUvery « far west as Penrith and Richmond,
south to Camden and Campbelltovm. Write jor full Catalogue of ploughs.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD., SYDNEY.
’Phone M 2401
Day and Night.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


HI
i
i
ll
v
i
£
CU
ENER
VVWI M
!l»JI i|
II Mill
1I II 111 11 1
mi
m
mu
i n
ii»ill'
iufji
m
%
i
nil'll
m
ii !
r
0
a
f
U>
HS
n hi
i'uj
EXP
•Hi
N
Wgk
Is
tfe*
BY
CTTLED
limit
Brewery
EY
f*> V
3>
n
&
iH
§
«
'<(«.
1
S 3
%
1
feu
sr
35c
'46.
f3>
«)
V
*
<g>
w*
*' *A\> '
‘4*


Leave it to Your
Sweetheart!
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Australasia’s Leading Physical Director.
Founder of “Health and Physical Culture?’ Magazine.
ASTOUNDING—GENUINE PROOF!
‘■l now have a 42in. chest; Cin. increase since
taking your course, and I have grown all over.. _ I
can also support an list, man and a 1121 b. weight
at arm’s length in the wrestler’s bridge, and my
neck is 16in„ an increase of 2|in.”
J. Kirkwood, C., N.S.W.
“I have now finished the first course and am feeling
a new man all round and getting as strong as a
horse.” —N. I- Paton, U.. Vic. . „
«Alv measurements still continue to increase.
' ' W. No ad, L., Q’land.
“I am growing stronger every day; faster than
I ever imagined.” —J. Wood, (i., N.Z.
“SECRETS OF MUSCULAR STRENGTH.”
FREE!
The Greatest Book in the
World ever written on Strength.
For a short time you may have this book
FREE—a book filled with astounding photo-
graphs of rebuilt men—a hook packed full of
liriton’s own secrets of making muscles grow.
It costs you NOTHING. Get it NOW!
ALFRED J. BRITON,
DEPT. E, 107 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
...A MESSAGE TO MARRIED MEN
OR MEN ABOUT TO BE MARRIED...
SK her what kind of a man she
wants for a husband. Ask her
whether she prefers a man with a weak,
flabby, ill-shaped body to a man with
a body as strong', sturdy and handsome
as a Greek go<l’s. Oh, she may love
you well enough now—but do you
mow that there are all degrees of love?
ind if you’re wise, you’ll set out to
be the man she once dreamed of (and
still does). Then married life will be
so much happier—so much more worth
while —with much less quarrelling and
differences.
PLEASURES BEYOND YOUR FONDEST DREAMS!
YOU can do it —easily, too. You can
experience the pleasures of living
that are beyond your fondest dreams.
The thrill of such living as you never
knew is now awaiting you.
A FEW MINUTES A DAY AND YOU HAVE THEM
fUI, take that body of yours and build
A it into something so wonderful, so
impressive, so altogether beyond your
fondest hopes, that you'll gasp with
amazement when you look into the
mirror at the end of the first 30 days.
I’ll take those skinny, soft arms of
yours and transform them almost over-
night, into lithe, steel-like battering-
rams of marvellous speed and power.
I’ll take the kinks out of that weak
back—straighten it out—tighten it up
around the -waist —go over the lungs,
the heart, the kidneys, the liver—
strengthening, always strengthening.
I’ll take that weak, flabby stomach
and make the muscles around it look
and feel like a cast-iron washboard.
I’ll straighten out those thin, stooped
shoulders —square them up—broaden
them —literally pack muscle on them
until they look like a piano-mover’s.
Large lumps of red-blooded muscle will
magically appear here, there, everywhere
—and you’ll feel so full of pep and
vitality you’ll want to conquer the world.
IN THE FIRST 30 DAYS I
GUARANTEE
And it doesn’t take years to work this
transformation —nor even months. In
the first 30 days I guarantee to add
one full inch of real, live muscle to
ea<*li of your arms, and two full inches
of the same virile, health-bringing
strength across your chest. And it’s a
real guarantee. Thousands ot men have
proved it to their satisfaction in the
last siv months.
TEAR THIS OUT—MAIL NOW!
ALFRED J. BRITON, .
SS w «t -»»«>«»»
FULL ADDRESS
d
24/8/’32.
Douglas professes to cure stand in very
great need of a physician. Also he does
students the service of providing a Douglas
bibliography.
The beginning of the Gospel according to
Douglas is that when The Bulletin pays
out wages, salaries and dividends, it doesn’t
pay out enough to buy all of its product,
because in the cost of that product there is
also the money spent on paper, ink,
machinery, lighting and power, plus interest
on overdrafts and mortgages. The former
payments he calls “A,” the latter “B”; and
lie claims that only “A” payments pass on
purchasing power to individuals. Ross, of
course, says this is absurd. And it is.
Follow those ink barrels around to Wimble s,
and you will see that the ink represents
purchasing power just as much as the wages
paid in the machine-room; and so does
every other ingredient in either a paper or
a pudding. It is a fact, no doubt, that
there is a delay sometimes between some of
the processes. For instance, the cost of
The Bulletin is the total of wages, salaries,
dividends, paper, ink, lighting, power, in-
terest, etc. If the men who get the salaries,
dividends and interest put by a third of
their total as savings, this money may not
be immediately available to buy anything
whatever. But it will all come in later on.
You get paid for to-day’s Bulletin _ with
part of what somebody got for growing a
bushel of wheat last year or making a
machine two years ago. However, the Doug-
las theory is that the public can’t buy all
that is produced because the money spent in
production isn’t all available to the indi-
vidual for purchasing things; and that Ross
and a million more hold to be the first
fatal error.
Then, though the whole thing is now
really dead through having nothing to stand
on and so falling into space, you go on to
the Price Factor. There being a deficiency
of purchasing power, the problem is to cir-
culate enough of it to distribute all the
goods already in existence or that could be
produced with the machinery available. One
of the disciples explains the Douglas plan
at this stage:—
If it were found that the cost price of all goods
produced, including the money value of all the
nation’s plant and machinery, raw materials, etc.,
amounted to four times the cost price of all goods
actually sold to final consumers in the same period,
the Just Selling Price of any article for that period
would be quarter of its cost price.
In other words, in those circumstances the
Just Selling Price of The Bulletin under
the Douglas plan would be lid. So after the
customer had paid 6d., he would get 4-« d.
credited to him in his account with the
National Bank. He could buy something at
4|d. with this, and get a credit for three-
fourths of 4hi.—that is 3d.-odd. He could
then buy something else with the 3d., and
get another credit of three-fourths of that
—and so on and on. There is no question
about the instant facilitation of purchases.
What Ross and other critics say is that
this would be inflation of a vicious kind,
followed by a rise in prices, which would
leave the community no better off, and the
world’s confusion worse confounded.
The Douglas planners have, of course, an
answer to everything. But they were not
able to satisfy the British Labor party,
which they tried very hard to capture. A
report, framed by Lord Passfield, R. J.
Davies, M.P., Frank Hodges. F. B. Varley,
G. D. H. Cole, Dr. Hugh Dalton, J. A.
Hobson, C. M. Lloyd, Sir Leo Chiozza
Money, R. H. Tawney a.nd Arthur Green-
wood, declared:—
In our judgment the Douglas “New Age” Credit
scheme is theoretically unsound, and unworkable in
practice. It is out of harmony with the trend of
Labor thought and is indeed fundamentally opposed
to the principles for which the Labor party stands.
Ross says he does not know one teacher of
economics in a college or university who
accepts the Douglas proposals, although
among those teachers are Communists,
socialists and holders of most unorthodox
views. This, he thinks, is because all these,
however diverse their views, have a basis
of common knowledge, proceeding from a
study of the fundamental facts of econo-
mics and finance, which the Douglas pro-
posals have not got. In short, the Major
began to build without examining the foun-
dations; and his whole structure is therefore
valueless.
P. H. S.
A Tour of a War Memorial
Melbourne’s Shrine of Remembrance is
now sufficiently advanced to be fairly
judged on its merits, and it must be con-
fessed that anybody who endeavors to look
at it Avith an artistic eye must come to
much the same conclusion as the local
Acting-Mayoress, who compared it to a bee-
hive. The other day I drove up to it in
a car, and before getting out surveyed it
through the Avindscreen. Thus seen the
edifice was cut off at the entablature, and it
looked beautiful. Thus far the architects
had followed orthodox Greek models. The
upward soaring lines of the fluted Doric
columns were balanced by the horizontal
lines of the uppermost member. The
proportions appeared perfect. On get-
ting out of the car, when I could see
the completed structure, I got an entirely
different impression. It is capped by a
roof of re-entering rows of concrete blocks.
Mrs. Dyer’s simile of the beehive is as
good as any to describe it, though a candle-
extinguisher putting out all the light of the
building would be equally descriptive.
Though now nearly tAvice the height, the
edifice looked squat and insignificant. The
columns looked paltry. And there are other
aesthetical faults about it.
On two of the four sides are gigantic
figures, presumably of Peace and War,
standing in chariots drawn by lions, with
boys leading the lions. They are all as
conventional as such symbols well could
be. The lions look as if they had been
turned out by mass production from ancient
Assyrian models. The majesty that the
female figures of Peace and War might
have had has been lost by the sculptor’s
fussy preoccupation with the details. The
Inner Shrine has been splendidly con-
ceived. It is faced with the lovely granite
obtained from the Victorian quarries at
Tynong. The green columns with bronze
capitals are made from Buchan (Vic.)
marble. The wall is pierced with an Eye
of Light, which has been so arranged that
the sun’s rays on Armistice Day will fall
on a simple unhewn Rock of Remembrance
sunk below the pavement. The Eight
Sentinels—Love, Charity, Courage. Integ-
rity, Strength, Faith, Honor and Brother-
hood —are missing. Work on them has
been suspended owing to lack of funds,
perhaps luckih\ But the 12 panels, in
Hawkesbury freestone, depicting “The Pro-
gress of Our Arms” are in place and prac-
tically completed. The}' comprise bas-
reliefs showing tanks, aeroplanes, naval guns,
camel corps, Light Horse, etc., in operation.
Viewed from the floor they at first give a
fine impression. Climb a ladder and survey
them from the level and the effect is dif-
ferent. It is doubtful if any Digger will see
himself in these statuesque poses or wear-
ing the decorous smirk which is on most of
them. They do not suggest soldiers in
action, but actors performing in a tableau.
They are not in the great tradition of art,
but the tradition of the Slade School or the
Royal Academy. Almost anybody trained
in those outward conventions could have
executed them.
Outside there is a series of magnificent
terraces. The site for the Shrine could not
have been better chosen. The view of the
surrounding country and the city is magnifi-
cent. Nature and Man were there waiting
to inspire an artist capable of being so
inspired. The sole record on the bare
outer walls is an insignificant scroll which
has been equalled in a dozen banks and
private buildings in the city.
The committee, it seems, “decided to sub-
mit to open competition among Australian-
born architects and sculptors the prepara-
tion of the design for the memorial. The
selectors were the president of the Federal
Council of the Australian Institute of
Architects, the president of the Royal Vic-
torian Institute of Architects and the late
John Monash. More than a year later they
announced their decision. They chose the
Shrine as designed by Philip B. Hudson
and J. H. Wardrop, two returned soldiers;
but the decision was not accepted immedi-
ately. There were still those who, in all
sincerity, thought they could improve on
that conception. John Monash who, by
tacit consent, was accepted by the soldiers
and the people as the leader on this subject,
let criticism beat itself out before he made
his pronouncement.” He declared eventu-
ally in favor of the present design.
It is no disrespect to the memory of a
great soldier to say that Monash was not
necessarily competent to judge on such a
subject. Nor is it any disrespect to Aus-
tralia to say that this country did not neces-
sarily contain all the talent required to do
justice to such a gigantic project. The
sculptor chosen. Paul Raphael Montford, is
in any case not an Australian, though he
has been resident in Melbourne for a long
time. According to Johns’s “Who’s Who,”
Montford was born in London. He received
instruction from his father and at the Lam-
beth School of Arts, and at 19 entered
the Royal Academy Schools, and he was
modelling-master at London Polytechnic.
The work he has done in Melbourne that
I have seen does not suggest that he is in
the great tradition of sculptors, though it
shows abundant evidence of what schools
he was trained in.
The Shrine is to cost a quarter of a
million, A great architect would have gone
crazy with delight at the thought of it.
Given the job of adorning it worthily, a
great sculptor or school of sculptors might
have spent a lifetime on it. It is doubtful
if even a lifetime would be sufficient.
Beauty is slowness, as Rodin said. The
committee seems to have let out the job
much in the mood in which the Town Hall
committee commissioned Napier Waller to
decorate its new concert chamber. The
result is likely to be the same—not a monu-
ment to a nation’s sacrifice but a monu-
ment to a group of conventional artists.
F. S.
And a Little Verse
PRIMITIVE MAN.
He stood, without creation yet divined,
Or conscious act whereof he could be
proud.
Alone, beside the very stones we find
To carve our heroes on. The birds allowed
Him music, and the sunset brought him
sleep;
The mountains, streams and skies were
but the end
Of all his world: his knowledge yet as deep
As those small eyes could penetrate and
blend.
So primitive, so barren he, but first
Of one great race, one rising line of deeds.
The mind of Homer, Sliakspeare’s dreams,
the thirst
For knowledge in their sons, the hope that
heeds
The end of all its secret, and the plan
Within his heart, the soul of perfect man
S.A.
H. DAVIS.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted:
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.N.0.: Opening line impossible; and the
rest is machine-made... .E.M.J.: There’s feeling in
it; but poor work. The sonnet is rhymed common-
place. .. .Helen J. P.: If you got out of that worn
rut you’d probably be acceptable... .R.J.: There
speaks the perfect lover. But he’s not half a poet.
.. . .L.K.N.A.: You might sell it to a S’African
paper; it’s passable... .Sibyl Li.: Eye better than
ear.... Pussywillow: Pretty, but too slight....
Roslyn: Just a clatter of words Brady’s L.: It is
g’ood to strive for simplicity; hut look out you don’t
drop into bathos. That first verse, for example....
Theta: It’s moaning now in the deeps of the basket.
... . S.M.: “The aching agony of prophet newly
dumb.” Gosh ! M.G.L. : Undistinguished... .J. 1.:
None this time... .N.F.K.: Neat, hut fragile; one
calls for another reading. .. .M.M.McG.: No; but a
near thing. . . .George L.: Try some church paper.
.. . .E.M.8.: Merely sentimental jingle. .. .C.G.: Even
the subject couldn’t make that poetry. . . .Merci II.B.:
Try it again with a few more intimate touches and
a little less vague melancholy.... Cecil B.: It’s
beyond our limited space.... Bellerive: AVc never
knew AVordsworth or that American chap Long-
fellow to say as much in 30 words:—
Deuced unpleasant is—
A bit of dirt in your eye.
And when drinking tea —
To swallow a fly.
Also unpleasant on—
A raw frosty morn
Is a throbbing- toothache,
And a stinging corn.
Rouge T.: Advice ? Hide the next thing you
write for a month; then see if you can’t say all
you’ve said in one-third as many words... .AV.J.B.:
Afraid if the recent price hasn’t brought all the
old gold to the buyers, who of course have paid in
notes, nothing will. .. .A.8.D.: Its length bars it;
about 300 words is the limit E.M.: Mechanically
good; but uninspired. .. .11. D.: Your dance has be-
come a basket hall Queen B.: Spring song is fiat.
. ...Sinjin: The noes have it.... Stone E. Broke:
But not half so broke as your Muse. She, poor thing,
has not a single virtue to her name... . A.G.L.C.:
No engagement ring for your bride in this establish-
ment... .Scribbler: “Surmising” held for another
reading John Macß.: Prose cut into stove lengths.
....O.T.AV.: The sample was divided among five
smokers; four were quite satisfied with it —and
they didn’t know what they were smoking, either.
....Rouge Tete: Dismally feeble parody... .Patrius:
No merit except in the last line... .0.M.J.: You lose
yourself in a tangle of words... .G.N.H.: Reminds
us of Douglas Sladen’s atrocious “condensed milk”
poem, and the rhyming is worse... .8.A.5.: Having
a tooth out may have been the most dramatic
moment of your life, hut readers would not he
interested. .. .AV.J.M.C.: So dull that we gave up
after the third page V.A.A.: Wasn’t worth sending
all that distance. .. .J.T.M.: Old p10t.... A.S.C.: An
old trick —it is usually worked in restaurants
E.E.P.: Juvenile D.H.AV.: The copper is unreal,
and so is the crook... .G.C.R.: P00r.... J.B.AA 7 .:
Longwinded... .E.K.: Ghastly... .L.D.: You tell the
old fellow’s life story as if you were writing it for
the Dictionary of National Biography.... O.B.: Be
more sparing with the adjectives, and remember that
the average bloke doesn’t talk like a professor.
C.R.N.: Just platitudes F.L. r Grew weary
of the billing- and cooing long before he popped
the question K.D.: Your hero is too energetic.
Rules of Heroes’ Union permit only one rescue a
d a y G.W.: Try again, but put more life into
the next R.M.: Characters don’t impress us as
the sort of people who would get into that sort of
mess E.R.C.: -Dreary, and the handwriting was
atrocious... .M.AV.P.: Much too 10ng... ALT.: Idea
has been handled before.... O.B.: A thin trick....
H.M.L.8.: Too sketchy G.H.Y.: Too long for its
interest. Two-thousand-word yarns are most in
demand these pinched days... .R.G.M.: Can’t find
a use for it Sadie M.: A good piece of work:
but it runs beyond 4000 words... .C.S.: ‘’Peg o
My Heart” was written by Hartley Manners, “The
Lights o’ London” by G. R. Sims and “The Road
to Ruin” by Thomas Holcroft. All have been pro-
duced in Australia T.N.H.: “The family records
show that Edward Hcnty died childless.” Then the
paragraphist stands corrected... .K.M.G.: AVeary of
weakling who becomes a. hero in the last par
M.L.: No demand for everyday travel notes....
C'.R.D.: You will have to learn to blue-pencil your
stuff 1.T.J.: Roughly tol l A.F.D.: Nicely
done, but. rather too improbable... .F.H.: You haven’t
improved it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.N.V.: Not dipping ini a the till for them
R. : Can’t be tempted with that brand of humor.
S.T.G.: Give them to mother-in-law S.M.M.:
Wretched N.L.: Even the most unconventional
curate doesn’t look like a metho. fiend who lias
been asleep in the gutter.... G.R.D.: Your placing
of the shadows produces a confusing effect... .P.L.:
Untidy... ,8.K.: Nothing graceful about that pair.
. ...T.M : Thinking of sending you a few stuffed
sharks for models A.W.: Lessons needed....
L.H.N.: No merit in it G.A.: As uninviting a
pub. as we have ever seen... .0.R.M.: Perspective
all wrong... .N.G.: Did you wipe your boots on the
sketch before sending it M. 8.: A sure harbinger
of spring is the crop of unshapely bathing- tabbies
forwarded for inspection... .M.A.S.: Let off as a
first offender J.AV.D.: A few lines put down
anyhow AV.fi.: Disliked the skinny flapper
C.D.: Make them bigger and give us more than
mere outlines R.J.H.: The wash drawings are
the better, hut that’s not saying much. .. .C.L.:
Good poses, badly placed solids and hesitating line-
work. .. .T.P.AA'.: Nothing to he said in their
favor. O.T.AV.: You scratch like a dog searching
for a lost bone 5.A.8.: Should do fairly well
when you get more confidence....C-R.E.: A dejected-
looking little effort AV.C.R.: A firmer line would
make editors look twice at your work. .. .R.E.:
That joke has been hurled at the profession for
years and years and years.. . .J.E.S.: A’illains have
long ceased to sprout black moustaches F.E.C.:
They’re too harsh... .AV.S.: Nothing to get conceited
about J.M.AV.: Didn’t they teach you anything
about perspective at the school?... .R.R.: Conver-
sation between cockatoo and jackass merely dull.. . .
S. A confused collection... .J.C.: Pointless jest.
.... HAL: Pity someone hadn’t shown you how.


ďf
. *-
’■’•site-
%
a
■II
■
.Tly
«
;
I
»
I
.Z:
:
I
■
:■:
1
is
•••
i
■
w
*- v
111 /V i n
. . «&S3&?\><iSh?K!
*“■. '**"■<■
-
m
iKi
■ i
'••; * <
v - ■ : '
d


The Bulletin
Vol. 53—No. 2741.
August 24, 1932.
AFTER OTTAWA.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 Oeorge Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 289 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 88 Barracl: Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.t.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to an r address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 120. 6d. ;
t months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months. Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America; Id. for 4oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
WOOL AND WORLD PRICES.
A committee of men mostly connected
with the wool business has been asked by
the Federal Government to make a quick
inquiry into the industry and report not
later than September 30. The composition
of the committee and the fact that it is
expected to make its findings before the
season s wool sales have gone far suggest
that nothing very exhaustive is looked for;
indeed, seeing that no other interests are
represented, it has an appearance of being
—in its inception, at any rate—part of that
very active propaganda which has been
carried on by the gentlemen who, for one
reason and another, want exchange manipu-
lated in the interests, they say, of the
primary producers.
There is, nevertheless, no reason why the
committee should not gather much valu-
able information. In the first place, and
above all, the real condition of the indus-
try ought to be thoroughly explored. The
country is entitled to know whether the in-
dustry itself is in such grave peril as it
has been represented to be, or whether it
is only a certain number of the people
engaged in the industry who are in grave
peril. Many figures have been put forward,
but none have been entirely satisfactory.
Where woolgrowers are in great difficulties
the country is entitled to know why, in
view of the constant demands for assistance
through exchange, or tariff adjustments or
otherwise. It is entitled to know whether
there are any men in the industry who are
not in great difficulties, and, if so, what dis-
tinguishes them from the others.
There are certain known outstanding
facts. Professor Shann, in his “Economic
History of Australia,” showed that from
1879 to 1885 the average price of wool was
9.8 d. per pound; from 1886 to 1895, 7id.;
from 1896 to 1905, Bd.; from 1906 to 1915,
9.7 d. Ihen came the war years and the
war sales, when the average went to 16.4 d.
In 1921-22 the price was back to 13.1 d.
But after that came such a boom as the
industry had never known. As we have
seen, the average for 36 years down to 1915
had been approximately Bid. The highest
point ever reached as a season’s average
in that time was 10.7 d. in 1908; for six
consecutive years: from {1893 onward it
was under 7d. But from 1923 the averages
went like this:—
1923.. 18.4 d. I 1927.. 18.0 d.
1924.. 24.1 d. I 1928.. 20.4 d.
1925.. 25.2 d. 1929.. 17 6d
1926.. 17.7 d. f
The country is entitled to know whether
the industry capitalised itself on the basis
of the 1923-29 prices, and whether that is
the cause of the worst of the difficulties
to-day. Until that is known nobody can
say whether it is the industry which is
hopeless (and that would be our worst
disaster) or the capitalisation of the in-
dustry.
There has been much talk about raising
prices to the 1929 level. It would save
us a lot of trouble if it could be done;
but what are the prospects? We have seen
what the average prices of wool were for
many years down to 1914—it was not until
after the war started that prices moved
beyond lid.; only in five years since 1879
had the average passed lOd. But it was
not only wool whose price sprang in the
war years. Taking the price-levels of our
exports for 1901 as the base (= 1000), the
figure in 1911 was still only 1161. Mel-
bourne wholesale price-levels were 1051 in
1902 and 1049 in 1903; they were no more
than 1088 in 1913 and 1149 in 1914. Thus
in the first 14 years of the century there
had been hardly any spring in prices; not
10 p.c. But between 1914 and 1924 there
was a spring of more than 100 p.c.; by
1925 it had reached 125 p.c. In 1929 ex-
port prices were still more than 100 p.c.
higher than they had been in 1901. To keep
prices up to the 1929 level means, therefore,
that they must be maintained at about
double the average of the quarter-century
before the war. And what is true of ex-
port commodities generally is true of wool
particularly. International co-operation
may do great things; but this would be a
gigantic task.
Yet if that is not done—and it is certain
we cannot depend upon it being done—
what way out can we find? Only two
courses seem possible; first, we must see
ii we cannot improve our market; and,
second, we must reduce costs. As to the
iormer, we either tremendously over-rate
the importance of our wool industry, or it
is blazing folly to sell the product, as we
are told it is being sold, at a loss. The
man who produces what the world must
nave and yet sells at a price which does
not pay his expenses has no right to be in
business. As to the reduction of costs,
wnat it is to be hoped the committee will
discover is how it can be done without
wholesale liquidation—the painful thing
tnat occurred in 1893 and thereabouts.
Meantime the industiy must be carried
on m the hope of something turning up.
lhe best prospect in that direction lies in
some improvement in prices. The “Econo-
mist cuts up commodities into five groups
inL the P ul 'Poses of its “index.” Taking
1927 prices as the base (= 100) the figures
at the middle of June and of August res-
pectively were:—
Cereals and meat .. .. g°'
£ th « 57.4 HI
Textiles 43.2 48.1
“ lner f I ls 67.2 70.5
Miscellaneous . . .. # # 59.7 60 6
This shows not only that textiles have had
the greatest fall, but that in the last two
months they have made easily the greatest
recovery. They are nevertheless still
nearly 13 p.c. below the average; and there
seems no special reason why they should
continue to suffer in this way. So far as
wool is concerned, it does, however, sug-
gest that there is something wrong with
the marketing. But the committee which
the Commonwealth Government has called
into being does not look the most suitable
body to take that problem in hand. And
if it were the most suitable it would hardly
be possible for it to examine the proffered
answers to the problem in a month.
THE RAIL AND TRAM PROBLEM.
Forty-odd years ago when, largely through
the writings of the Fabians, the foundations
of the Labor platform were laid, the pur-
poses of public ownership of public utili-
ties were quite clear. The public needed
cheap water, lighting, power, sanitation and
transport, not only because domestic com-
fort required it, but because these things
were necessary for industrial prosperity;
and how could they be cheap when the
capitalist made big profits out of their
supply? Public ownership meant that all
those profits would be saved and prices
reduced accordingly. More than that:
where there was public ownership there
could rightly be a monopoly, and that
meant cutting out all the waste and ex-
pense of duplication—such as we saw where
half a dozen milk carts served a single short
street. And there would be advantages
from another standpoint. Where there was
excessive competition or excessive greed,
there was likely to be sweating on the one
side and poor service on the other. Public
ownership would stop all that. As for
finance, this could be easily arranged, and
at a rate of interest much below anything
private enterprise could command. In
theory the case was unanswerable.
It was so unanswerable that we did not
have to wait for Labor to reach office to
see the policy adopted more or less through-
out the Empire—more in Australia, less
in Britain, where vested interests had a
longer start. Indeed, the competition between
parties to put the policy into effect was the
beginning of the policy’s ruin. It had been
brought into being to secure, for one thing,
cheap transport. Within 20 years it became
a mere means of winning votes and, through
votes, political jobs. Never were high ideals
so shamelessly prostituted. All over the
country railways were built for no other
purpose than to gain political support. And,
instead of costs being reduced, so that
users might get a cheap service, the systems
were flagrantly overmanned, more votes
being bought with poor little billets. In
1901-02 the working expenses per average
mile worked in N. S. Wales were £793; by
1913-14 they were £1367. The working ex-
penses per train mile run in the same State
had moved up from 48.26 d. to 63.18 d. Over
the whole Commonwealth the working ex-
penses per mile worked went from £602 to
£856 and per train mile run from 48.05 d. to
59.56 d. That movement was bad enough
especially in N. S. Wales, which was leading
the shameful procession; but after 1914
the figures went quite mad. In N. S. Wales
we have seen that at the beginning of the
century working expenses were £793 per mile
worked; in 1929 they were £2537; for the
whole Commonwealth the record had gone
from £602 to £1569. Per train mile run in
N. S. Wales the 48.26 d. of 1901 had gone to
131.28 d. in 1929, and the 48.05 d. for the
whole Commonwealth had reached 129.65 d.
—in 1926 it had been no less than 136.08 d.
Meantime, though most of the later lines
were hardly better than rails nailed to
sleepers laid on dirt, over open country, the
total cost (State lines only) ran from
126 millions in 1901 to 309 millions in 1929.
Between 1901 and 1914 the average annual
rate at which money was spent was
£3,600,000; in the next 14 years it reached
£9,400,000. And the cost per mile, which
had been £13,405 in N. S. Wales in 1901,
reached £20,633 in 1929, notwithstanding the
light and impermanent nature of most of
the newer lines.
The financial results are ghastly now;
but, since it might not be fair to take
present figures, let us go back to the five
years ended June, 1929. During that quin-
quennium—which was before the crash
reached us—the State railways lost no less
than £22,195,739, without taking account of
depreciation. We can get some idea of
what the charges on this account should be
from an experience in 1925-27: a new Com-
missioner, taking over the comparative
handful of State railways in S. Australia,
required that £3,982,314 should be added to
working expenses in one year and £1,962,079
in another “on account of accumulated and
deferred charges.” If that were all—if we
could say that before the crash came we
were losing an average of over four millions
a year on our State railways and stop at
that—we should be far better off than we
are. But, instead of getting cheap service,
which was the intention behind public
ownership, the charges have been increased
staggeringly. In 1914 the average receipts
per ton of goods and livestock carried were
98.67 d. In 1929 they were 187.68 d. That, of
course, takes no account of distance car-
ried. On the Queensland railways between
1907 and 1931 there were total net increases
of 45 p.c. on most general goods, 68 to
110 p.c. on sheep and 56 to 85 p.c. on cattle.
The rates have been determined not by the
cost of the service, but in many cases
frankly by what it was thought the traffic
could pay—with the result that to-day we
have one of the most straitened industries
struggling to pay rates fixed in the days of
its highest prosperity.
Now both railways and tramways are
faced with a competitor in road transport
which, if it is not properly handled, will
make all future figures as bad as those of
the quinquennium quoted— of worse. The
railways are peculiarly open to attack be-
cause of the great disparity in freight rates.
On the Commonwealth lines a recent rate-
sheet showed that, whereas wheat was
carried 200 miles for 15s. 9d. a ton and iron
or lead ore the same distance for 21s. Id., it
cost 84s. 2d. to carry a ton of greasy and
101 s. a ton of scoured wool, 645. 2d. for a
ton of meat and 595. 2d. for smelted metal.
A comparison made even in 1914 showed
that freights for 500 miles ran in N. S.
Wales from 11s. lid. per ton to 1155., in
Victoria from 15s. 2d. to 158 s. and in
Queensland from 275. 6d. to 2355. 5d.; and
the tendency has been to make still greater
variations. The inevitable result has been
that the eyes have been picked out of the
traffic by the new transport.
So this is our position. We have a dis-
jointed railway system in Australia which,
apart from the Federal lines (the East-West
Trans and the North-South §-Trans), cost
us over £300,000,000. In N. S. Wales we
have further a tramway system which cost
12 millions and in Victoria one which cost
eight millions. The tramway services are not,
however, a great drag in normal years; in
the year to June, 1928, they showed net
earnings of 5.47 p.c. on capital and to June,
1929, 5.45 p.c. The Melbourne services
showed a small loss in both those years.
The construction of tramways has not been
so absurdly overdone, even in N. S. Wales,
as that of railways; obviously there have
not been so many votes in it. With a
proper safeguarding of their interests, and
with capable management, there is no
reason why the tramways should cause the
public any concern anywhere. Certainly on
the figures there is no justification at all
for any Government being stampeded into
any radical change. The railways are, how-
ever, a different proposition; and, since
something must be done about them, we
ought firslto get the facts. We began right
(except for the painful muddle of the
gauges), and we went on fairly right till
about the beginning of the century. Only
in some respects can we get back where we
were then. We have spent probably 100
millions on unprofitable lines. We must
carry their interest burden even though we
close these lines. But it does not follow
that the best thing to do with lines that
don’t show a profit is to close them. Only
a very careful consideration of the circum-
stances of each case can determine that.
But there is no doubt whatever about the
overmanning of the services; and there is
nothing whatever to stop immediate reform
there.
South Australia offers a lead as good
perhaps as any. Its Traffic Control Board
may order the closing of any railway line
if it is satisfied (1) that such action will
be in the best economic interests of the
State and (2) that other transport facilities
will be available; it may declare any routes
or all the routes in an area “controlled,”
and thereafter nobody can use a hire
vehicle on them without a license; and
it may co-ordinate the traffic as between
railways and licensed vehicles. There may
have been a time when, in view of the
failure of politicians to give public owner-
ship and control of railways a fair chance,
it would have been a good thing to sell the
whole railway outfit. But road transport
competition is now so serious that to get
a buyer we should have to give away more
control over our highways than could be
safely yielded. The position in the U.S.A.
seems to show that clearly. Under the
Transportation Act of that country the
“fair return” for railways was fixed in 1922
at 5f p.c., and even during the boom years
the railroads as a whole did not approach
that, rate; 156 lines showed 1 p.c. in 1931.
And so many of them are so hopelessly
unable to keep themselves equipped and in
repair that the new National Credit Cor-
poration is specially authorised to finance
them.
MOVES IN FURTHER ASIA.
Until the Great Depression, Japan spent
no less than 50 p.c. of her revenue on army
and navy. Even to-day the figure has been
reduced by only 15 p.c. She has a trained
reserve of 3,000,000 and 1500 fighting ’planes,
and her navy is as strong as ever. For this
reason she has been accused of being im-
perialistic, usually by people belonging to
rival imperialisms. It would be fairer to
say that since the revolution of 1867 she
has been struggling to preserve her national
independence, and in order to do it has had
to use the only weapon which has yet
proved effective in the international
stadium. Modem nations are merely Big
Businesses. The makers of modern Japan
realised this with typically Nipponese
absence of sentiment. They decided, like
Russia, to apply scientific planning to the
problem of Japanese development.
How thoroughly they did their job is
seldom fully realised. The first thing they
set out to do was to abolish feudalism, be-
cause feudalism meant political anarchy.
It took them only a handful of years,
whereas it has taken Europe centuries. The
last vestiges of the spirit are the ronins,
who murder unpopular Prime Ministers and
then give themselves up to justice. Then
they invented a State religion, with the
Emperor at its head and the people’s
ancestors as its presiding deities. This
removed the danger of sectarianism. People
don’t engage in religious wars against their
great-grandfathers. Then they encouraged
applied science, but not pure science. Pure
science makes awkward discoveries. Thus
it would have been inconvenient if a
scientific historian had announced that he
could find no evidence of the Mikado being
directly related to the Sun goddess. Then
they proceeded to educate the people, not
to think for themselves, but to use the
tools of Western industrialism. So well did
they succeed that soon half the world was
lighting its pipe with Japanese matches
and waving national flags marked “Made
in Japan” in patriotic processions.
Japan, as a Big Business, is suffering the
normal fate of private enterprise in these
times. It finds the channels of expansion
getting narrower. The Shanghai enterprise
was a failure. The next extension has
already been announced with the dispatch of
an army of fully-armed commercial travellers
to Mongolia. Mongolia is six times the size
of the German Empire and ten times the
size of Japan proper. It is supposed to be
a desert, but the desert and the fertile
parts are in about the same proportion
as in Australia. Travelling through the
fertile portions is much like travelling
between Melbourne and Sydney.
The Mongols number 2,000,000, mainly
nomads, and they have such a passion for
entering the priesthood, which is celibate,
that they are in danger of extinction. This
is offset by Chinese immigration. Celestial
agriculturists are advancing towards the
desert at the rate of four miles a year and
an area 200 miles deep by 700 miles long
will eventually be reclaimed from pasture.
An old crater near Urga, the capital, is
worshipped as the birthplace of Genghis
Khan, whose hordes erupted over Asia in
the twelfth and thirteenth centuries,
destroyed the Mohammedan empire, and
might have turned Europe into a Mongol
colony if it had not been for a domestic
disagreement. In those days the yellow
man believed himself to be the torchbearer
of Civilisation and no doubt Mongol Kip-
lings wrote sentimentally about carrying
the yellow man’s burden. At present the
unkempt descendants of Genghis are mere
pawns in the struggle between Russia and
Japan for business supremacy in farthest
Asia. The winner in this epic contest will
not necessarily be Japan, despite recent
spectacular successes.
When writers invent Utopias they invari-
ably take two or three well-marked tenden-
cies and extend them to their apparently
logical conclusion. The trouble is that you
can never take all the factors into considera-
tion. Factors that seem least important
at one time are precisely those that turn
out to be the most important in the long
run. Of this the Japanese Utopia is a
working example. The Japanese people
were so amenable to discipline that in an
amazingly short time their rulers were able
to completely change their habits. But
when a person’s habits are changed very
suddenly he is apt to become neurasthenic.
A country man transported to the city
is at first delighted by the novelty. Then
he becomes irritable and discontented. He
may finally end by becoming hysterical.
There have been conspicuous examples of
national hysteria in recent Japanese history,
notably the wholesale assassination of
Koreans after the great earthquake, the
outbreaks of Bolshevism after the resump-
tion of relations with the Soviet, the
Shanghai atrocities and the running amok of
the army in Manchuria, when the Govern-
ment was as impotent as if it had been in
South America. Moreover, modern indus-
trialism is breaking up the family, and
with the break-up of the family will go the
worship of the ancestors. The country is
already full of intellectuals unable to find
expression except in terms of revolution.
FENG-SHUI.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Exchange and Costs.
There is talk still of putting up the prices
of our exports by lifting the exchange rate.
Those who seek salvation that way are
deceiving themselves. Prices can only be
put up like that at the expense of costs.
Smith the butcher says he must have more
money, so he raises his prices to his cus-
tomers, the baker, the grocer, the green-
grocer and the rest. They, however, are
in much the same position as Smith, so
they are driven to charge him more for his
bread and groceries and cabbages. This is
precisely what is happening at this moment.
The overseas buyers are not paying the ex-
change; the Australian people are providing
every penny of it. And. like the baker
and the grocer and the greengrocer, they
have to pass the extra charge on.
Moreover, the community has to pay a
great deal more than the exporter gets by
way of exchange premium; and that is a
point of which we are apt to lose sight
entirely. At the moment the wool-grower is
complaining bitterly because the price of
wire-netting has gone up; and he wants
wire-netting badly because the rabbit pest
is spreading. But the wire-netting manu-
facturer has to buy spelter, and spelter is
one of our export lines. Therefore the
Australian purchaser of it has to pay not
the overseas price only, but the overseas
price plus exchange—just the same as the
Australian woollen mills have to pay over-
seas price plus exchange for their supplies.
Likewise for everything else that might be
exported and sold for London price plus
exchange, Australian buyers have to pay
London price plus exchange. If the Aus-
tralian buyer turns to the foreign supplier,
then he finds that not only is there what
amounts to a super-tariff of 25 p.c., but
sales and primage taxes are based on the
increased price.
There is always a lag when these charges
are imposed: they don’t all show them-
selves at once. But they must show them-
selves in the long run. Then there must
be another lift of the rate. Inflation of
every sort always asks for more inflation.
♦
Ottawa Was Worth While.
Something good has come out of Ottawa.
In the closing scene at the Imperial Confer-
ence the representatives of all the countries
concerned, except the Irish Free State,
signed five-year agreements embodying
mutual concessions designed to place
Imperial economic co-operation on a firm
foundation without sacrificing the prin-
ciple of national protection of essential
industries. No party to the proceedings
comes out with as much as it hoped to
get; but there is good reason to believe
that, in some way or other, all will benefit.
And, though the difficulty between Britain
and the Free State remains, the indications
are that better relations have been estab-
lished, and that a formula may be found
which even Mr. Dc Valera will accept—or,
if not Mr. Valera, some other Irish states-
man with a twentieth-century mind.
Under the Import Duties Act passed
during the national emergency, the Mac-
Donald-Baldwin Government clapped 10 p.c.
duties on foreign lead, zinc, canned meat,
wheaten flour, copra and a number of other
commodities, giving the corresponding
Dominion-produced articles free entry.
This policy is to be continued, as are also
the old preferences on sugar, tobacco and
currants; and the preference on wine con-
taining not more than 27 deg. of proof
spirit—an increasingly important item of
export from Australia—is to go up from Is.
to 2s. a gallon. Sultanas and lexias are also
to get increased preferences; so are fresh
apples and pears, canned fruits, butter (15s.
a.ewt.), cheese, condensed milk and milk
powder, honey, oranges and grapes, and eggs
in the shell. Two new and very welcome pre-
ferences are 2s. a quarter on wheat and 2d.
a pound on copper. As for meat, the
British delegates set their hands to a
declaration that “the present wholesale
prices of frozen meat have resulted in great
depression in the British and Dominion live-
stock industries; the position is so serious
that it is essential to raise the wholesale
prices of frozen meat to a level ensuring
efficient production.” So Britain is to set a
limit on imports of Argentine chilled beef,
while Dominion frozen beef is to come in
without restriction; on the other hand,
Australian and Maoriland exports of frozen
mutton and lamb are to be limited to the
quantity that went to Britain last year.
This feature of the agreement is not likely
to get Australian cattlemen out of their
troubles; but there are to be further negoti-
ations regarding chilled beef, frozen beef,
mutton, lamb, bacon and ham.
Australia, for its part, has undertaken to
give Britain increased prefei’ences on “a
wide range of commodities.” This is vague,
and will engender doubts, especially as Mr.
Gullett, himself a delegate, is Minister of
Customs; but it is added that duties will
not be lowered without reference to the
Tariff Board, and that reads better. British
goods are also to be removed from the list
of prohibited and surcharged imports; and
primage duty is to be repealed or reduced
'‘as soon as Commonwealth finances per-
mit.” For the rest, Britain agrees to invite
its colonies and dependencies to give the
participating Dominions the same prefer-
ences as it proposes to grant them itself.
This may prove to be not the least valuable
part of the work of the men who have made
history at Ottawa.
Tiie Business of Civilisation.
Admiral Hyde's statement that Britain, “in
the hope that real progress might be made
with world-disarmament,” has changed
places navally with Japan, and “is now the
third naval power,” merits more attention
than it has had. So does his remark that
Australia “is now spending less on naval
defence than Chile.”
The white nations control among them the
chief strategic points of the world; the centres
upon which all the products indispensable
to mankind converge. It is their business
as representatives of a civilisation which
they have spent centuries in building up,
and which, with all its faults, is the only
alternative to world-chaos, to see that those
centres do not get into the wrong hands.
Georges Valois, a brilliant Frenchman, who
is himself a pacifist in theory, points out in
his “War or Revolution” what would
happen if the whites went out of the civili-
sation business by disarming.
With no great delay every European domination
would be rejected and overthrown. The consequence,
as things are, would be the arrest of world trans-
port ; famine in cotton, wool, sugar, rice, coffee,
meat in all Europe; an economic upheaval such as has
never been known ; and, to enliven the picture, some
great conflagrations in Asia and Africa. You can
imagine all this just as well as I, without attempting
to form a picture of Singapore in the hands of
the Malays, Aden and Djiboutil in the hands of
the Somali, the Suez Canal controlled by Bedouins,
and so on,
This is very well understood by the
U.S.S.R., which, being self-contained, with-
out overseas possessions, and secure from
invasion, has nothing to lose and much to
gain from a world-conflagration. The over-
throw of Caucasian civilisation is the one
hope this semi-Asiatic nation has of achiev-
ing the mastery of the world. And so we
find throughout the Empire leaflets issued by
Leagues Against Imperialism and the like;
and we also find Lang-planners jeering at mili-
tary service and the R.A.N., and foreigners
denouncing all forms of national defence at
our trades halls. They all stress the in-
famy of Imperialism, and advocate the
same thing—disarmament. Not world-dis-
armament; that would be absurd, seeing
that even Germany, the most bankrupt of
the Powers, has just made an appropriation
of 4,300,000 marks (£215,000 at par) “as a
first instalment on the cost of building a
third pocket battleship,” while its army
and navy budget for this year totals
674,500,000 marks (£33,725,000 at par). Not
Russian disarmament, though the U.S.S.R.
has the strongest army and air force
numerically of all the Powers. But British
Empire disarmament on sectional lines. It
has been found impossible to disrupt the
Empire by organising a revolution in the
U.K.; the British do not take kindly to
revolution, as was proved in the abortive
1926 general strike. But a considerable
measure of success is being achieved in the
other direction, as Admiral Hyde’s facts and
figures indicate.
»
Let’s Do Something!
“The primary line of action in the monetary
sphere towards a rise in prices would be the creation
and maintenance —-within the limits of sound finance
—of such conditions as would assist a revival of
enterprise and trade. These conditions should include
low rates of interest and abundance of short-term
money.”
So the Ottawa Currency Committee re-
ported, with a warning that the favorable
conditions should not be achieved “by the
creation of additional means of payment to
finance public expenditure”; in other words,
that we should avoid doing just what Aus-
tralian Governments are doing, and against
which they have been repeatedly warned
by the Commonwealth Bank.
The banks are doing something by reduc-
ing overdraft rates; but is it not possible
to make a more direct attack on unem-
ployment? Professor Milhaud, of Geneva,
has submitted a plan extending one which
The Bulletin has discussed; attention has
already been drawn to it (B. 10/8/’32). He
proposes a National Office for the Further-
ance of Production, which would be author-
ised to issue “purchasing certificates”
entitling the holder to purchase the com-
modities of the employers who had en-
gaged the unemployed labor. The commo-
dities would be on sale at all stores which
had undertaken to accept the purchasing
certificates in payment, these stores also
receiving certificates equal to their expenses
and profit. The certificates would remain
valid for a fixed period only—Milhaud sug-
gests three months. They would be can-
celled when paid into the National Office.
A boot factory engages 100 unemployed,
who make 1000 pairs of boots. They have
cost the factory (labor, materials, every-
thing) £750, which it has paid out in “pur-
chasing certificates.” A boot-seller buys the
boots. His exes, and profit will be. say,
£250, so the National Office issues him
£250 of certificates. The retail price is
£1000; and £lOOO of purchasing certificates
have now been issued. Holders of certi-
ficates (who have received them probably
at a flourmill or soapworks or market
garden) will buy these boots, paying in
£lOOO worth of certificates. The boot-seller
will hand the factory £750 worth, which the
factory will pass to the National Office
and the transaction so far as the factory is
concerned will be complete. Thus always
during a given period a precisely equal value
of supplementary commodities and purchas-
ing power will be issued; and that distin-
guishes the scheme from inflation, which is
an increase of purchasing power without a
corresponding increase of production.
No doubt there are dangers to be
watched. Steps would have to be taken,
for example, to prevent the bootshop from
going on taking certificates long after the
factory consignment had been disposed of;
this would mean that there would not be
sufficient purchasing power out to lift the
supplementary output of, say, the soap-
works. It might be necessary to stamp all
goods produced with purchasing certificates,
or otherwise confine purchases to those
goods.
Certainly the system is worth a trial. It
would put goods and purchasing power of
exactly the same value on the market at
the same time ; and when we have done
that we have made a long step towards
killing Uie trade stagnation. It is an issue
of that short-term money which the Cur-
rency Conference says is so essential; and
it would cost nothing. Indeed, in order
to ensure the prompt return of the certi-
ficates, it might be advisable to make a
small charge for the credit.
* :
The Dismal Science.
Dear Bulletin, —Why the “science of
political economy” is admitted, in our Uni-
versities and learned societies, to an equality,
or at least a fraternity, with real sciences,
it is difficult to understand. A science in
essence is a collection of immutable natural
laws, each a triumph of elucidation or dis-
covery, capable of expression, possibly, in
mathematical terms or by mechanical ana-
logy, but, in any case, in a manner logical,
symmetrical and proveable. A committee
of genex*al medical practitioners selected
haphazard, anywhere, could devise and agree
upon a model of a man, with the circula-
tory and respiratoiy systems at least in
good mechanical order, and the nerves elec-
trically represented. Any half-dozen astro-
nomers could agree upon a working model
of the solar system or the universe, with
flic motions of the units in correct propor-
tion. A similar little junta of physicists
could devise a means of graphically or
mechanically demonstrating the structure
of matter. The sciences of these gentle-
men depend on fundamental principles and
the practitioners of those sciences have a
firm grasp of the principles.
Looked at from this angle the “science of
political economy” isn’t a science at all.
The methods of its practitioners are scien-
tific. For a century and a half or longer
they have been collating all the facts
obtainable in relation to their subject, but
the world has yet to hear of the discovery
of a single principle or law in the least
degree comparable with Newton’s law of
gravity or Harvey’s law of the circulation
of the blood. The only economist of any
fame who evolved a symmetrical and fairly
complete mathematical basis for his
theories was Karl Marx, but he built a
good deal on the sand of emotion rather
than on the granite of fact. So it comes
about that when the world, as at pi’esent,
is faced with grave social problems, the
professors of political economy have a great
diversity of theories concerning them.
At the Science Congress in Sydney last
week, for instance, we had Prof. Giblin echo-
ing Cassandra and diagnosing the complete
breakdown of the present social system;
Prof. Laby ascribing the depression to the
Great War, which puts it in the same cate-
gory as dozens of other post-war depres-
sions this old world has weathered; Prof.
Copland visioning salvation in a rally of
investors; Prof. Kesteven denying that
there is over-production; Prof. Wadham
asserting that there is, and Prof. Wood
laying the blame for the whole business on
the world’s wicked habit of ignoring
“economic science.”
The world might retort to Prof. Wood
that it could never understand what the
professors are driving at. In almost every
country in the last hundred years poli-
ticians have practised extravagance and the
economic scientists haven’t offered more
than the very mildest of remonstrances. In
Australia we have got to the stage where,
as the chairman of a company declared on
the same day as the economists were de-
bating the depression, nearly half the aggre-
gate income of the citizens is taken from
them to pay for the administration of
public services and government generally.
That is certainly well over twice the pro-
portion of payment demanded for equiva-
lent services 50 or even 25 years ago, and
should the proportion increase serious social
troubles must inevitably increase as they
have done in every State where the Gov-
ernment has let expenditure go unchecked.
The pressing need of the moment seems
to be a campaign, imbued with missionary
zeal, in favor of that fine old watchword
“political economy,” but the professors of
“economic science” aren’t agreed even upon
defending the term that describes their
alleged science. Within the last few weeks
one of the best-advertised of the tribe,
J. M. Keynes, has been spurring Australia
on to a new bout of political borrowing and
spending.—Yours etc., Garry.
*
The Australian Home.
“M.G.S.”: For many years I have looked
for a beautiful and distinctive Australian
architecture and wondered why there was
no sign of its arrival. Recently I visited an
exhibition of drawings, paintings and
designs by members of the Melbourne Uni-
versity architectural atelier, and the reason
was vouchsafed to me. The show repre-
sented a year’s output of this influential
academy, and the approval of mature archi-
tects was shown in the bestowal of awards
and scholarships. There were tinted draw-
ings of Romanesque buildings, Assyrian
palaces with winged bulls and man-headed
lions, Egyptian temples and whatnot. There
were drawings of domestic architecture in-
corporating details from Moorish mosques
and Spanish-American missions.
The impression I gained was that the
most original, beautiful and distinctively
Australian piece of architecture yet pro-
duced is the post-and-rail fence. The
important institutions that set our tastes
in architecture have produced nothing to
equal it. A few years ago I engaged an
architect to build me a house. He made
a plan, and then did me a drawing to show
me what the house would look like. It
looked lovely. He had embowered it in
trees and it resembled a chateau. The
house, when finished, looked all right, too,
though some of its proportions could be
modified with advantage. The point is that
it didn’t look in the least like the picture.
Now, the importance of this is that
obviously the architect hadn’t the foggiest
notion of what the house would look like
when finished. He had only some academic
rules about proportions to go on. The
fundamental faculty essential to the archi-
tect —seeing things—hadn’t been developed
in him, despite his years of training. A
building, I imagine, is not merely some-
thing to live in. It is something to be
looked at. If this is right, then the true
architect and the true artist should be
interested in the same thing. They should
be interested in how things look. The
artist must know something about mixing
paints and using brushes, just as the archi-
tect must know something about stresses
and strains and mortar. But primarily he
is interested in proportions, tone and color.
The artist learns about proportions, tone
and color by looking at things. Contem-
plating Nature in all its infinite variety,
he acquires a habitual sense of what is
beautiful in color and exquisite in tone and
harmonious in proportions. If there is any
other method, none of the great masters of
painting ever discovered it.
How many Australian architects go out
looking at things? Very few, judging by
their pictures. They assert, no doubt with
perfect sincerity, that they aro endeavoring
to give us a real Australian architecture.
They do it by measuring Greek temples,
Byzantine palaces and Gothic cathedrals.
When they proceed to apply the formulae
thus obtained to Australian architectural
problems, they expect to reproduce in resi-
dential flats and office buildings the same
effect of beauty that entranced them in
those ancient models. No doubt to their
surprise the result is quite different, as
anyone can see for himself by taking a
tour of our cities and suburbs.
♦—
Appeals Made Too Easy.
In these days when we are looking for
leaks to stop, we might consider whether
we don’t offer too many facilities for legal
appeals. It is not only that there is a
great waste of money in the courts, but the
poor man who hasn’t some society or other
to back him is liable to be pushed to the
wall, no matter how good his case. Even
that misfortune might be tolerated if the
matter went on from one court to another
for the purpose of checking the lower
court’s law. But written law has very little
to do with many decisions. In these the
appeal Judges first decide what in their
opinion the law ought to be, and then
search to find out whether statutes or pre-
cedents admit of that reading. As in most
cases there are no precedents and the
statutes admit of many readings, we are
handed decisions with which law or legal
knowledge has had very little to do.
Some time ago a Sydney police inspector
made a report to his superior on a subor-
dinate, and in due course the Full Court of
the State’s Supreme Court decided that the
report was privileged. The matter went
then to the High Court, which decided, not
by a majority but unanimously, that the
State Full Court was wrong, and that the
report was not absolutely privileged—was
only privileged so long as it rvas not mali-
cious. It may, however, be taken for
granted that that point was very well con-
sidered by the State Court; for the ques-
tion of malice was repeatedly raised. But
the State Court probably came to the con-
clusion that an officer would hesitate to
write plainly to his superior if he feared
that he might have to defend an action
claiming damages for slander, and that the
service (and hence the public) would suffer
if such reports were not privileged. It is
not a matter of law, then, but a matter
of policy, whether we should follow one
course or the other; and when it comes to
matters of policy probably a bench of Jus-
tices of the Peace is as competent as either
the Full Court or the High Court. At any
rate, uuder our Constitution, six J’s.P. have
just the same power as six High Court
Judges in deciding what the law shall be.
And then there was an appeal—also to
the High Court—to decide whether sponge
cake is pastry. The Commissioner of Taxa-
tion claimed sales tax on a Melbourne
firm’s transactions in sponge cake, and the
firm said it was not liable because spoil— l
cake was pastry. From court to court The
point wandered, until it reached the High
Court, where Justice llich, Justice Staike,
Justice Dixon and Justice Evatt solemnly
found that sponge cake was not pastry—
which, as one learned brother said, was
“perhaps one of the few things which e\eiy
schoolboy knew.” It cost the country some
hundreds of pounds to decide the matter,
nevertheless.


f
QUALITY should be your
first consideration!
CRAVEN A
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
To for 9d. 20 for 1/6. 50 in flat tins, 3/9. IQQ f or 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years’ Reputation for Quality
POLITICAL
POINTS
The figures about tobacco show what
tariff preferences can do. In 1919 the ILK.
decided to give Empire-grown leaf a lift.
Up to then that sort had been only 1 p.c. of
the total consumption ; it is now 20 p.c. But
there is plenty of room yet for the Aus-
tralian grower when he can answer require-
ments as to quality and price. Of 288
million pounds, which the Empire smokes in
a year, only 49 million pounds is Empire-
grown. And of all the British colonies only
.Jamaica is an exporter of cigars.
The N.S.W. Education Department is re-
tiring every married woman teacher who
can t show that her family is dependent on
her earnings; and that will mean good-bye
to over 1000 of them. They have had a
very good run. In Victoria when a female
teacher signs the marriage register she auto-
matically signs her resignation; and the
acceptance is just as automatic.
It may be peanuts that will bring the
validity of compulsory marketing schemes
to the High Court. Section 92 of the Con-
stitution has always been understood to say
that the Queenslander shall have the right
to trade with N. S. Wales, and So all round;
wherefore, in spite of the Queensland Pea-
nut Board, some growers proceeded to ship
3000 bags from Rockhampton to southern
ports. The Peanut Board sought to get
possession of this consignment; and Justice
Webb refused an order —granting a stay of
proceedings, however, so that the board
may go to the High Court.
Herbert Hoover, now launched on his
campaign for a second term as U.S. Presi-
dent, holds that Uncle should collect his war
debts in full, and doesn’t believe in accept-
ing payment in goods. But if any debtor
is in a tight place over “some particular
annual payment,” Uncle, if Hoover remains
President, will consider adjustments pro-
vided he gets abundant compensation in the
shape of better markets for his goods. But
Britain is also trying its hand at Protec-
tion, being full up of paying Uncle
£195,640,000 for goods and receiving from
him £52,000,000 in return (these were the
figures for 1929). Hoover’s vague temporary
offer was held out on the day when the
British Empire had just about finished mak-
ing definite permanent arrangements for
itself at Ottawa.
“Dr. Page is attacking the Government again.”
JOE: “Why are you boring a hole in the
boat, instead of helving me to bale
out?”
EARLE: “To show my independent spirit.”
The basic-wage inquiry farce is still run-
ning in Sydney. At latest application was
being made to the Court (three Judges)
that £lO should be added to the living wage
for dental expenditure, and a sum sufficient
to pay the sporting-club fees of the basic-
wage-earner’s children. The cocky leans
on his fence and tells his wheat-paddock that
it must grow an extra bushel of wheat per
acre to pay for it all. And the paddock
takes no notice.
Warrnambool, Swan Hill and Horsham
trusts (Vic.) are going ahead with sewer-
age schemes that will cost £182,000. The
money will come out of the Federal-State
loan of £950,000 at 4-} p.c. with a 1 p.c.
sinking fund; but if the trusts can do better
for themselves in another quarter they have
the right to repay at six months’ notice. For
five years in the cases of Swan Hill and
H'orsham, and four years in that of Warr-
nambool, 3 p.c. of the interest will be found
by the State and Commonwealth conjointly.
The immediate benefit will be removal of
the men employed from the dole.
Prompt and bold measures designed especi-
ally to bring the staggering cost of Govern-
ment within reason, and cut out frills, and
hack off parasitic growths, are expected of
the Stevens Government, and it has begun to
do its best to furnish them. Last week it
announced that tin-hare betting licenses
would not be renewed after September 30;
that 25 p.c. of the Sydney horse- and pony-
“We won’t put that among the rubbish yet,
Mrs. Bruxner. We must humor Mrs.
Weaver.”
racing and trotting dates would have to go;
that it would stand no more gassing from old
Whiddon, and lotteries would be “gradually
reduced”; that the lodger vote would not be
allowed to dominate the City of Sydney this
year, since the elections would be postponed
for 12 months; above all, that the Lang
swindle of giving railway and tramway em-
ployees rates of pay based on a 48-hour
week for 44 hours’ work would be forthwith
abolished. In other words, the Federal awards
governing their pay are to be restored, and
the 10 p.c. cut ordered by the Court applied.
Also Minister Bruxner has flatly declared
that he won’t see union secretaries who take
orders from Moscow. A “regulation strike”
is threatened, but as there are 3000 surplus
employees in the Railway Department alone,
besides heaps more who are getting men’s
pay for boys’ work, it won’t go far.
Sometimes innocent people pay a fear-
ful price for the yoomanitarianism of poli-
ticians. In 1911 a ruffian named Bennett
received a life sentence in Perth for an
outrage on a girl. A soft-hearted Labor
Attorney-General let him out, and within
four years he had been gaoled in N. S.
Wales for conspiracy. In 1917 he was
given 15 years in Melbourne for robbery
under arms. Now the beast lies under sen-
tence of death for his last and vilest crime;
the victim was a four-year-old girl, going
home from Sunday school at Brunswick
(Vic.). The same Labor Attorney-General
released dozens of convicts from Fremantle
gaol until an outcry was raised in Parlia-
ment, which stopped him. The present holder
of the office ought to call for a police report
on their.subsequent history as a guide and
a warning to yoomanitarians.
They don’t carry many resolutions at the
Science Congress, but they did agree to one
in the Geography section last week with-
out a single dissentient. The section had
been discussing the subdivision of States, and
agreed with Dr. Watson, ex-Commonwealth
historian, who argued that it was absurd to
subdivide a patchwork quilt by subdividing
one patch. It was accordingly resolved that
“the further subdivision of Australia should
not be entertained, except as regards Aus-
tralia as a whole.” No doubt what the
section approved is the most desirable thing;
but, though this writer’s teeth are quite un-
satisfactory, and the ideal thing is to get
an entirely new set, he is going to have a
particularly irritating one dealt with
promptly.
.On the hustings, Forgan Smith, now Pre-
mier of Queensland, promised to raise a
£2,500,000 “internal-revival loan.” Asked
in Parliament the other day for details of
this loan, date of issue, issue price and
interest, Foggy showed smart footwork. He
said that, thanks to the assistance of the
Loan Council there would be enough money
for “revival” works for some time to come.
Nobody knows, of course, but some people
guess that the Government in Victoria has
lost, half a million through the illegal sale
of wheat by people who had given the State
a lien over it. The operation is so common
that it has acquired a name of its own —
“flogging”—and men have come along to
cheerfully admit that as “everybody” was
doing it they thought there couldn’t be much
wrong about it. The same thing has hap-
pened in other States to wheat over which
somebody has had a lien: grain has been
simply delivered in the name of somebody
else. In Victoria the Closer Settlement
Board has been the most severely-rooked
body.
A weird idea has got into the heads of
some of the N.S.W. Country party that ex-
change is naturally and normally governed
by.the difference in the purchasing power of
money in the two countries concerned.
Well, for many years living in Ireland was
So cheap that a good many aged Australians
went there and found they could manage on
about half what it cost them in Australia.
But The, Bulletin never heard of the £
of an Irish bank being consequently worth
£2 in Australia. As a matter of fact, the
purchasing power of money has no direct
bearing on exchange at all. If a desert
country had a wonderful gem-field, with
everything else wickedly dear, it would still
keep its exchange at par if its exports
equalled its imports. Sugar might be Is.
per pound and flour £1 a small bag, but it
wouldn’t make an atom of difference to the
exchange rate.
In its July circular the National City of
New York, one of the greatest of American
banks, devotes nearly two of its 15 pages to
the “Improvement in Australia,” based on
figures, lately quoted by The Bulletin,
showing that Australia and Germany had
done more than any other debtor countries
in the world to swing an excess of imports
over to a surplus of exports. “Australia,”
it says, “gives an example of meeting the
new conditions and of the way in which
recovery will come about,” and it commends
this country for taking “the path of re-
trenchment and readjustment, which other
nations likewise must follow.”
The Commonwealth used to take p.c.
of lottery prizes, but Bruce-Page removed
the tax to oblige Tasmania, and let it get
about £2 p.h. p.a. from lottery taxation of
its own. But the concession could not con-
stitutionally be restricted to Small Sister,
and fierce Queensland and N.S.W. competi-
tion has greatly reduced its value to her,
while with the growth of income and unem-
ployed-relief taxation it has become an out-
rageous anomaly. The position is that a
man has to pay 9s. 6d. in the £ Federal
tax and 4s. or ss. in the £ State tax on an
income from £5OOO from property, whereas
the drawer of a £5OOO prize pays nothing.
The Federal lottery tax should be reimposed
and made 20 p.c. for good measure.
Reorganisation of the Vic. Settlement
Board on the lines of the Electricity Com-
mission is proposed by the Argyles. The plan
may involve two of the three members being
switched on to other departmental work, and
it includes transferring control of irriga-
tion areas from the Water Commission to
the Lands. That would mean confining the
functions of the commission to storing,
supplying and getting paid for water—its
hardest task these times.
"The ‘Tantawanglo tiger’ has been seen again....
Mr. Theodore has emerged from retirement to
demand that the private banks should be ousted and
a monetary dictatorship set up.”
“Blime, the Theodorewangler tiger! Still,
there’s no danger—he only catches
rabbits.”
A complaint about the Westralian railway
freight-rates on wool, wheat and super,
elicited the surprising reply that per ton
they are lower than before the war. And the
authorities gave chapter and verse:—
WOOL.
1914. 1932.
150 miles . . . . 40/8 44/6
200 miles . . . . 60/- 56/9
300 miles .. .. 83/4 73/1
SUPER.
150 miles .. .. 9/5 5/2
200 miles .. .. 10/5 6/2
300 miles .. .. 12/6 8/3
WHEAT.
150 miles .. .. 13/9 12/6
200 miles .. ... 15/9 14/1
300 miles .. .. 21/8 19/-
The reduced rates didn’t prevent the depart-
ment showing profits of £34,500 and £26,600
in 1927 and 1928. There have been losses
during the depression, but figures for the
first month of 1932-33 suggest that if the
anticipated wheat harvest of 50 million
bushels or thereabouts materialises the ledger
may be balanced this year.
“The postponement of the City of Sydney elections
has wrecked the Trades Hall’s plan for making
Jock Garden Lord Mayor.”
"Verra pretty, comrade; but the cape stat-
ists have decided that I’ll no' be wanting
it this side o’ the Chreestmas after
next. In the meantime, conseeder
yoursel' rationed.”
Earle Page is again talking as if primary
exports are the only things that matter.
Well, let’s see. The Bruce-Page Govern-
ment lasted from 1923 to 1929. Ex-
ports (practically all primary products)
reached 437 millions in the three years
1925-28, an average of nearly 146 millions
a year, as compared with the 78 millions of
last year. But actually with that handful
of exports we paid our way last year,
whereas in Page’s three years his 437 mil-
lions of exports didn’t even pay for the
imports : they left us all the interest to pay
and 26 millions of the bill for the imports—
after which we crashed. It’s not the size of
the exports that keeps us out of debt; it
is the surplus of our exports over imports.
Page had no surplus—and never would have
any. No man is wholly responsible for Aus-
tralia’s misery to-day, but a heavy load of
it is due to this ghastly incompetent in
all matters of finance.
Coburg (Melb.) council is using its influ-
ence with the Metropolitan Board of Works
to get the use of machines in road construc-
tion reduced so that more labor may be
employed. Quite a lot might be done in
that way. For a couple of years, for in-
stance, we might abolish reaping machines
and harvesters, and cut wheat by hand.
There would be no question about the em-
ployment of labor; and it might if it worked
long enough hours earn 12s. a week. The
idea that there’s a wage fund somewhere
from which you can dip out more than you
put in dies hard.
Lang, though still a hero to half-wits, is
universally regarded as a mug in the racing
world. First he nearly ruined the tote by
altering the method of distribution so stupidly
that divs. on placed horses at 10 to 1 on anil
10 to 1 against were about the same. Then
he brought in a tax on punters who struck a
winner, taking, at first, 10 p.c. of the amount
staked as well as of the amount won. He
reckoned to get £2,000,000 p.a. from it, but
nine-tenths faded into thin air because,
although small punters (mostly his trusting
supporters) paid the tax, capitalists who
booked their wagers evaded it by means of a
dishonorable understanding with McShort-
odds; also portion of the tax collected was
not accounted for, and there was a great
transfer of betting money to the s.-p. shops.
The idiotic impost is to be abolished in
favor of a 1 p.c. tax on turnover. If this is
accompanied by a reduction of the tote tax
from 9 p.c. to 5 p.c., racing, which has been
very hard hit, may revive, as it has done in
Victoria, which has had no Lang.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Penfield”; The other day The Bulle-
tin talked, about the high birthrate of de-'
bating societies in Australia. Queensland
is doing its. share all right. There is a
debating societies’ union in Brisbane and
another in Toowoomba; the one at Bris-
bane has 22 societies on its roll and this
year 28 teams are in the union competitions,
rbat means a flood of talk, and some of it
is astonishingly good ; it takes a good many
rounds to bring 28 down to one. Some of
the societies have branches of their own
the Young Statesmen’s League, for in-
stance : it has eight debating teams in the
held. One rule applies all round: “It’s
meat that matters.” In all competitions
most points go for substance. And the old
hands who look on see how quickly the
young debater learns to pick out the’guff;
and that -is worth as much as being able
to string words together for oneself.
“Green Chequer”; It is no unusual ex-
perience for vessels at sea to be invaded
by homer-pigeon stowaways (B. 17/8/’32).
In the summer season such visits are com-
monplace in the English Channel and the
Bay of Biscay. Some of the longest flights
undertaken by Eng-
lish fanciers are
from southern
France or northern
Spain, San Sebas-
tian and Bayonne
being favorite spots
for tossing the
birds. W h e n
adverse winds are
encountered, the
long flight to Eng-
land is too much
for many of the
birds, which, like
the brainy crea-
tures they are,
rarely fail to take
up temporary quar-
ters, at least, on
convenient ships.
THE EASY MIND.
“Fancy your Tom going joy-riding like that!”
“Yes; but it is so restful to know where the old dear is now of a night—he wont be
out of hospital for six weeks.”
By the way, why do so many people, like
“Erua,” persist in referring to the. homer as
the “carrier” pigeon? The carrier is no-
thing but a show bird; as an air traveller
he has been superseded by the homer for
many a year.
« * * -
“Subbubs”: Alf, who hasn’t had a perma-
nent job since the slump began, sometimes
gets a half-day at my place. He is a like-
able little cuss —always neat, sober, cheery
and conversational, and he looks the whole
world in the face with the confidence of one
who is not in a position to owe any man
and has made a success of life. He has all
the gestures of industriousness. We all like
him, and wish him well, aud wish, to good-
ness we had never met him. He is one ot
our minor crosses. There is no job he won t
take on, and mess up. He clipped the edges
of the lawn and left ragged patches every
few yards; he cleaned the car, and 1 found
uuassimilated streaks of “Carpol in all the
tneky places; he weeded a patch of onion-
grass by the simple process of digging the
imperishable stuff in. Alf is like that in
everything—whatever he does has to be done
again. I have an idea that he represents a
large proportion of our unemployed. W hen
the boom was on, and no one worried mucu
about slummocked work, he could survive.
Now the workers who don’t like their work
for its own sake, who can’t lake an artist s
interest in it, apart from the remuneration,
are being pushed to the wall. Alf never does
his best; it seems to be against Ins prin-
ciples. So, as I have said, he hasn t had a
permanent job since the slump began.
“Strict Veg.” > With the approach of the
bathing season 1 read in a Melbourne paper
the new regulations gazetted
by the South Melbourne
Council to meet the situa-
tion. “No person may bathe
or undress,” ran the docu-
ment, “except at specified
places. A person may not
undress or bathe between
10.30 p.m. and 5 a.m. Cana-
dian or skirted costumes
must be worn. No person
in a bathing-suit may sit, lie,
loiter or run along the beach
or seashore. Sun-basking on
the beach is permitted only
if the bathing costume is
covered by short knickers,
overcoat, kimono or other
suitable covering.” Horses
or other animals may also be
bathed at stipulated times
and places. The rules are
silent as to whether they
should wear skirts or Cana-
dian costumes, and as the
father of a growing family
who may have occasion to
visit the beach at South Mel-
bourne I think the council ought to enlighten
me 0,1 the subject. ... #
“Bin ns” : The usual pack of maudlin
sentimentalists whose hearts ache at the
thought of even the most brutal murderer
being executed got busy before Moxley paid
the penalty. They trotted out all the old
arguments against capital punishment and
even introduced one or two with a dash of
novelty. “Would anyone willingly shake
hands with the hangman?’’ asked one indig-
riant lady with a shudder, as if that
settled the whole question. There is a preju-
dice against Ketches and Calc-rafts and
Nosey Bobs, no doubt, but if il rests solely
upon the nature of tlieir work it is irra-
tional. The hangman, although so much odium
falls upon him, has really much less to
do with the killing of a murderer than the
police who arrested the man, the prosecutor
who sheeted home his guilt in court, the
jury who convicted, the Judge who passed
sentence, or the sheriff who hires an expert
operator to carry it out. Without the joint
and several actions of all these there would
be no job for the hangman, whereas they
could manage at a pinch without him. The
law leaves it to be understood that if the
sheriff cannot find a hangman lie must put
through the contract himself, and there are
instances of the unpleasant necessity having
arisen. If it should recur, would any reason-
able person object to shaking hands with
the sheriff on that account?
* :is * *
“Jeames”: No people condemn bragging
so sternly as the English, and none do so
much' of it. Not even the .Yanks.
But the technique of the English is very
highly finished. Take women. An Ameri-
can will tell you she is rich —perhaps even
mention the amount of her fortune. Very
crude work. An Englishwoman will say she
is hopelessly broke —has actually had to put
down a couple of footmen and the Rolls!
An American will say she is a splendid
rider, and perhaps have the bad taste to
prove it. Her opposite number from Eng-
land will confess that she can’t ride a scrap,
though certainly, when her father was hunt-
ing bis pack in the ’Shires, Captain Blobbs
(the Saiulown Gold Cup winner), always
did say that he had never seen a woman to
A BETTER LINE.
FRIEND OF MUMMY'S: “I’ll give you a penny for a kiss, Betty."
BETTY: “No, thanks—I can earn much more taking oil.”
touch her over really big country. But then
you know what soldiers are when they rather
like a woman! Unscrupulous flatterers. Ha,
ha! There are subtler methods than the
above. For example, plain speech and hard
drinking are fashionable among London’s
best-advertised Bright Young Things at the
moment. So the travelling Englishwoman
with social aspirations is apt to stagger a
gathering of drab suburbanites on, say, a
I’. and 0. liner by proclaiming, in what the
police would call obscene language, that she
is blind tight. She is probably sober. It is
her way of telling the humble Austrylians
and others present that her spiritual home
is Mayfair.
* :ii * *
“Tuart” : In certain respects these stunt-
ing aviators, male and female, remind me of
the music-hall people of my remote youth.
They have the same childlike craving for
applause, and some of them tend to wander
in and out of the Divorce Court as irre-
sponsibly ; also, the new profession has
rewards and punishments very like the old.
Succeed, and you become a Lindbergh or an
Amy Johnson —as in other days a Marie
Lloyd or a Little Tich. You achieve fame
in a day, and fortune is thrust upon you.
Fail, and you may experience the dreadful
lot of a Captain Lancaster or a Mrs. Miller.
The newspapers ignore you, you can’t get
an engagement, the money gives out, and
nobody will lend you a cent. In the case
in which Lancaster was accused (falsely,
the jury found) of having murdered the
bedraggled American birdman Clarke, an-
other admirer of Mrs. Miller, it came out
that the three unfortunates couldn’t get
enough to eat, and that heartless corporations
had cut off their water supply and electric
light. What a life! I remember reading
that the lady in the case, who was born
in Southern Cross (W.A.) —when I knew it,
the seediest of mining camps—once sold
vacuum-cleaners on commission in Mel-
bourne. She should have stuck to selling
vacuum-cleaners.
* * * *
“Ex-Cavalryman”: I cannot let “T.Y.I”
(B. 10/8/’32) get away with the assertion
that not one man in four can roll puttees
properly. In the regular army (even in
war time) every man had to have his put-
tees rolled as they should be. At Sandhurst
we learnt the art in about two days, for an
excellent reason —we knew that if our put-
tees could not bear inspection we should
be “for it.” Moreover, puttees can be
rolled properly on any sort of leg, and when
this is done in no* circumstances whatever
can they fall off.
• • • • • •
“P. 8.1.”: After 26 years’ service, 22 in
the regular army, I am satisfied there
is nothing to beat the puttee for marching
and general usefulness. I’ve suffered tor-
ture from leather leggings a ud canvas gaiters,
either of which “looks nice” in peace time,
but is useless to an infantryman on service.
Certainly puttees, if worn in hot climates
and rolled without judgment, are likely to
prove uncomfortable, but that is the fault
of the wearer, not the article. I wore them
through a summer campaign on the Mespot
front, and prefer them to the long .stocking
for general use. At Passchendaele, in Octo-
ber, 1917, most of us had puttees on continu-
ously for three or more days, and they “did
not fall off’ and trip us.” A number of other
armies have adopted the puttee since the
war; even German officers deigned to wear
them, and the Doughboys, when associated
with A.I.F. units, were keen to>. get a pan-
in place of their clumsy gaiters.
* * * *
“N or M” : One witness at the Tin Hare
investigation described another as -‘a chap
who always called you by your Christian
name the second time he met you,” and a
third appealed to the Commissioner not to
assume that he was on terms of the closest
intimacy with a fourth because he had
addressed him in a letter as “dear friend
-—it was a mere form, he pointed out, and
S’onah nodded sagely. I suppose these
homely familiarities of speech are charac-
teristic of democracies; in the older coun-
tries they move more slowly. In my time
at an English public school Christian names
were very seldom heard. A boy answered
either to his surname or his nickname —of
the latter, of course, there was no lack, and
they were mostly stickier than glue but
liis baptismal name was almost always re-
served for his family and his relatives or
perhaps his very closest intimates. It was
much the same at Oxford, although the
rolling years may have changed all that. I
don’t defend the habit, but it was a hard
if not an impossible one to discard in alter
life —harder even than leaving the bottom
button of your waistcoat undone Or turning
up the extremities of your pants in the days
before tailors saved you the trouble.
THE DIRGE OF THE TIN HARE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Death Knell of Tin Haves is Sounded.”
“Ruthless Attack on the Poor Man’s Sport.”
—Sydney “Labor Daily” headlines.
Toll the grim bell, the harbinger of gloom,
And raise a requiem for the hare of tin !
And grave in burning words upon his tomb
Who was it spoke the gentle creature’s doom
And did him in.
Have they no bowels of compassion, then,
The dour, despotic Stevens and his men?
Deem they the worker has so many joys
That he can spare
The swift synthetic hare
With its concomitant amenities,
The straining hounds, the boisterous bookies’
noise,
In such drab days as these?
The mourners come with solemn steps and
slow ;
Of aching hearts their sobs, half-strangled,
tell.
See Lang and Gosling, ranged in rueful row
With Baddeley, and observe the face of woe
On Judge Sgvindell!
Was it for this they labored to ensure
Some wholesome pleasure for the toiling
poor,
To cheer the lives of men of low estate
With the glad thrills
The hunter on the hills
Knows when his dogs into their quarry
run?
Ah! may these tyrants live to rue, too late,
The dastard deed they’ve done.
This was our sport. When did we grudge
them theirs?
Or care a copper what they lose or win
At hectic gambles on their stocks and shares?
Yet, while they frolic with their bulls and
bears
Our hare of tin,
The one ewe-lamb in Demos’ scanty flock,
Must get it in the neck and take the knock,
Bringing to nought our sturdy tribunes’ toil!
While classy chaps
Upon their proud Phar Laps
Ai-e free to wager amid Randwiek’s buzz,
Our hare is jugged ! It sets one’s blood
a-boil,
Comrades, my oath ! it does.
REPAIRS AND RENOVATIONS.
“You’ve broken your promise—the promise
you made me!”
“There, there, don’t cry. I’ll make you
another one!”
Raise the drear dirge and spread the dismal
palls!
Poor Wat, our Wat, beyond the pale they
push.
A hush upon Macdonell House there falls;
The bushmen-shepherds soon must cease their
calls
t At Shepherd’s Bush.
No more before the eager tykes lie’ll spin,
Our lepus, wired with art and ribbed with
tin.
Toll, toll the bell, and let the sirens shriek.
The poor man’s sport
They’ve stonkered with a snort,
Despotic Stevens and his ruthless pack.
No more, ’mid yelling backers, once a week
The worker’s galloping machine will streak —
That is, till Lang comes back.
n.s.w.
T. THE R.


P.X.”: The suggestion of Loxton, K.C., in
, lie N.S.W. Supreme Court the other day
that Justice Stephen was deaf recalls a
day when a late Judge # of the same Court
discovered that he was —a fact well-known to
counsel and everybody else for years. A
witness had occasion to mention a conversa-
tion with one of the parties. “You say he is
your brother ?” his Honor asked. The witness
repeated what the other had said and it
wasn’t “brother.” “YeSj yes,” said his Honor
—“but there is no relationship, is there?” By
this time counsel were assisting the Court by
repeating what the witness had said; but as
two or three of them spoke at once the con-
fusion was only greater. In a moment’s
silence a big constable with a voice like a
foghorn broke in. “Not brother, your Honor”
—and he roared the word. “Yes, yes,” said
Ids Honor, tapping the side of his head
irritably—“l’m afraid I must be getting a
little deaf.”
* * *
“Davy Jones”: The sea still hath its
perils other than those of wind and water.
North of Timor, the other day, the skipper
of a phosphate tramp was mildly surprised
to see two Malays swimming in the open
ocean which in those parts is stiff
THE TIME-SAVER
"How did he make his huge fortune?”
“Invented a compass that always pointed
to the nearest bar.”
with sharks. They were hoisted on
board but could give no explanation of their
plight. There was a native sailing ketch
some little way off, and the tramp skipper
sought there for further information. He
found the craft was out of control, and that
of two natives on board one had been badly
knifed. The unwounded man, who spoke
a little English, said he was the reis of the
craft and that he and the other had been
attacked by some passengers and other mem-
bers of the crew on robbery bent. He
blandly denied that the men taken from the
water were members of his crew or the
passengers, and swore he had never seen
them before. Questioned as to where the
passengers and the remainder of the crew
were, he at once acquired a Royal Com-
mission complex and “no savvied” anything.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The late Stewart Dawson’s pre-
decessor on that Collins-street, Melb., corner
(B. 10/8/’32) was Sam Mullens. Sam immi-
grated on the same ship with a fellow-irish-
man named Robertson in 1852. Robertson
set up a bookshop and employed Mullens as
a librarian for a time. Then he sent him to
' ondon to buy books, a letter sacking him
going in the same boat. Mullens thereupon
bought stock in Loudon on his own account,
opened it and sold it on the wharf in Mel-
bourne and returned for more. H'e finally
came back to open his business in competi-
tion with his old employer at 58 Collins-
street. It is rumored that the rivalry
between the two had its genesis in a contest
for a colleen in Ireland in which Mullens
was successful. It continued until both busi-
nesses, having become companies, buried the
hatchet end amalgamated in 1921. While
the feud was on, Mullens’s passed through
many vicissitudes. It became Melville and
Mullens, then Melville, Mullens and Slade,
and finally the names of McCarron, Bird,
Stewart and Puttman made up probably the
longest title any firm was cursed with in
Melbourne. Leonard Slade is still active
amongst the shelves of the present Robert-
AN EXPERT
THE LADY OF THE HOUSE (to temporary gardener ): “Do you know anything about
worms, Trevassa?”
T.G.: “Yes, missus, I know bit ’bout worms — I’m married meself.”
son and Mullens shop in Elizabetli-street. The
circulating library side of the business, which
has recently moved into handsome new prem-
ises, also has an unbroken history. Its in-
cumbents were first Sam Mullens, then
Adam G. Melville (known as the Prince, of
Librarians), then his son David, and then A.
A. Firman, the present holder of the office.
Firman, incidentally, has kept for 30 years a
social register of borrowers, for his own
private edification, which is almost a matri-
monial and family history of the leading
lights of Melbourne.
* * * *
“Kyn”: The most obstinate petty offender
ihe Vic. police have encountered for years
was a young woman found travelling between
Caulfield and Malvern in a second-class rail-
way carriage without a ticket. She wouldn’t
give her correct name and address because
she “didn’t want her people to know.” Reluc-
tant to log her, the constable at the watch-
house tried persuasion, pointing out that
many hundreds similarly caught had merely
had to pay a small fine. She persisted in her
obstinacy and spent a week at Coburg Gaol
waiting to be brought before the Court. The
result of her contumacy was that a stiff fine
was imposed and, being unable to pay, she
was ordered to put in another week at Co-
burg jug, which is alongside Pentridge.
* * *
“H'omfrey Beale”: References to sopori-
ferous “soft” drinks (B. 27/7/’32 and
3/8/’32) remind me of a beverage brewed by
a fireman on the Karoa in May, T 9. Cross-
ing the Red Sea word went round from
Authority that Digger volunteer stokers
would be welcomed below*, and to break the
monotony five of us butted in. After an
hour’s shovelling we were relieved, and before
going on deck were given a mug of hop-
beer apiece, which, we were assured with a
wink, would “fix us up.” “Dan makes it,
an’ we wouldn’t swop it for all the rum in
the world,” said the man who brimmed it
out. The five of us slept the clock round,
ns did two other reliefs who tried it. Yel
the maker assured me later that there wa
“nothin’ unusual in it, on’y a kick o’ ordi-
n’ry boot polish—it’s just kuowin’ the quan-
tities that does it.”
:•:***
“X.S.”: A couple of unemployed in Mel-
bourne temporarily improved their status
by commandeering a vacant house
recently. They kept themselves warm
by the simple expedient of burning
the floorboards and breaking up tin-
wooden mantelpieces. They migln
have continued to be self-supporting
indefinitely if they hadn’t betrayea
their presence by tearing out electric-
light wires and stringing them in the
back yard as clothes lines. With the aid
of the police the irate Chinese landlord ended
their tenancy.
* * *
“Kokopo”: A Sydney journal which pub-
lishes extracts from its columns of 50 years
ago referred recently to the prosecution
in France of the Marquis de liaye for fraud
in connection with his New Ireland settle-
ment scheme. The long-forgotten business
affords one of the most tragical stories of
the South Seas. In all good faith the Mar-
quis projected a great settlement of French
peasants and artisans on New Ireland,
then nominally a British protectorate. An
elaborate expedition was fitted out, but
malaria made such havoc among the emigrants
that by 1880 the disillusioned and
wretched survivors had to be repatriated. One
feature of the abandoned equipment was a
wonderfully carved wooden altar presented by
the Archbishop of Milan to be set up in
the New Ireland cathedral. Last time 1 saw
it was in the famous residence of “Queen
Emma,” planter and trader, of whom so
many stories have been told. It was then
doing duty as a sort of buffet bar, from
which the Queen’s guests were expected to
help themselves to anything' from champagne
to soda water at any hour of the day or
night.
* * « if
“2nd Divvy”: A plaintiff at an English
County Court (Clerkenwell) annoyed the
Registrar last month by calling himself
“major.” “I have a very great dislike, - ’ said
the Registrar, “of a man who is not serving in
his Majesty’s forces, but is a company direc-
tor, calling himself by a military title.” So
has everybody; yet like all rules this one
has its exceptions. Who would be so mean-
souled as to challenge the right of, say,
“Bull” Ryrie to call himself “Major-Gen-
eral,” a rank which he won in fair fight on
the field of battle? Still more ungenerous
would it be to deny V.C.’s like Harry
Murray and Blair Wark the military titles
they had a right to when the war ended.
The spectacle that makes ex-Diggers feel
like the Clerkenwell Registrar is the war-
rior-business magnate, who may be anything
from a Lieut.-General downwards, and never
saw an enemy in the wild state in his life.
These impostors either clamber up the
seniority-ladder as volunteers or promote
themselves. They have no more legal right
to their titles than the others (as the Eng-
lish Judge pointed out, the right to use mili-
tary titles is confined, except in parts of
America “where everybody is a colonel,’’ to
regulars) ; and they haven’t a moral right
either.
* « * *
“Tackier”: As one well acquainted with
Lancashire, I was interested to read in a
recent cable that a new process has been
THE SORT OF WOMAN MAY IS!
“May said you said I was over forty and looked it.”
“Did she really say that? Well, I'm so sorry, darling — I’ll never tell her a thing again.”
discovered, after long years of research, to
prevent the creasing of cotton goods. It
is claimed for it, seemingly on the best
authority, that it further obviates the loss
of shape by garments which have been worn,
and can be applied to other textile fabrics.
One recalls O. Henry’s New York exquisite
who vanished without notice from his former
haunts, though he lacked nothing in the way
of money, social standing or reputation.
Years afterwards two friends on their travels
spent a night at a Trappist monastery in
the Caucasus or some such region, and en-
countered their old acquaintance in the very
last place where they would have expected to
find him. To their inquiries he explained that
the curse of his existence had been the urge
for a garment that would not bag at the
knees. At last he found it in the neek-to-
foot gown of the monastic order and peace
of mind with it. The Manchester invention
might have saved him that drastic remedy.
:!= $
“iChevroford”: I agree with “F.1.A.T."
(B. 17/8/’32) that speed hogs are unmiti-
gated blackguards, but I submit that the
onus for the accidents should be apportioned
not between fast and slow drivers, but be-
tween good and bad ones. The good drivers
drive at what experience has taught them is
a safe speed. They see ahead, anticipate
eventualities and make decisions promptly
and correctly. They keep their vehicles in
a state of efficiency. The bad drivers usu-
ally drive slowly, because they are not sure
of themselves. They do not foresee things,
and when the unexpected happens they react
slowly and make a panicky readjust-
ment. The taxi men of Melbourne are by
no means slow drivers, but they are respon-
sible for fewer accidents than any other class
of motorist. In Adelaide the maximum speed
limit is set so low that the traffic appears
to be going to its own funeral, and pedes-
trians treat drivers with the familiarity and
contempt the Melburnian shows towards his
cable trams. Can anybody supply figures of
motor accidents in Melbourne and Adelaide?
# -e ❖
“Modestine” : Norfolk Island has an Exec-
utive Council of 12 —six. elected and six
nominated by the Administrator —and this
year 19 candidates nominated for the six elec-
tive seats. There was a record poll, and the
•‘All-Island Party,” With one sound mainlander
thrown in for the benefit of the Aussie and
M.L. settlers, galloped home as the result of
an intensive advertising campaign. This con-
sisted mostly of the following illuminating
poster, well besprinkled with names familiar
to students of Australian history, to wit,
Christian, Buffet and Nobbs:
Now all yolye dees de has sullen fer uklin.
Volya vote simis de. (You all vote the same a>
this.)
The unwanted were marked by a cross and
the terse “Car do” (no good) or “Car mussa
do” (worse). The lingo of the island is
really untranslatable, being a mixture of
Tahitian, archaic English, slang and baby-
talk, but though ethnologists despair of it.
students of elocution revel in its gorgeously
round vowels.
if * *
“Pink Tape”: A business man who died
in Sydney the other day had one queer ex-
perience. Born in England, as a young
man he went to the U.S.A., and, getting
a job with a big American firm, he presently-
decided, as he wag evidently fixed in the
U.S.A. for good, to become naturalised. He
did it, and had hardly got into the habit
of thinking of himself as a good American
citizen when his firm shifted him to Aus-
tralia. He was still mourning over thc-
fact that he had robbed himself of his Brit-
ish citizenship when something happened
and he discovered that he was still a natu-
ral-born British subject. But this case
wasn’t so puzzling as that of a man who
was born in the U.S.A., and who, when the
war started, decided to apply for letters
of naturalisation as he had long been
settled in Australia. He filled in the neces-
sary forms, among them one in which In-
set out that his father was born in Canada,
but had settled in the U.S.A. before his,
the applicant’s, birth. The papers wen-
returned with a letter to the effect that on
the facts set out he was already a British
subject.
* $ #
“Sunningdale”: “Inner Temple” wasn’t
quite right in saying (B. 17/8/’32) that the
loss of the Bath Club was the only trouble
Captain Wright struck in connection with
the Gladstone libel case. He lost his golf
clubs also, and that hit him much harder.
His departure from the Bath got all tin-
newspaper publicity, because Lord Glad-
stone, being an influential committeeman
(also one of the founders of the club), was
able to get him expelled. It was actually
done before the case came on. The golf
clubs were less spectacular. They investi-
gated his position at length, and then “re-
quested him to resign” on the ground that
“his membership was detrimental to the
club’s good name”—a merciful procedure
which was adopted in certain leading Syd-
ney social clubs in the case of members who
were involved in the land scandals of 20-
odd years ago. The effect is that he won’t
be able to piay again on a reputable private
golf course. In itself, by the way, the Joss
of a social club matters little to a modern
Londoner. The best golf clubs offer many
more amenities, and, as transport improves,
they threaten to knock out most of the his-
toric West End institutions altogether.
THE BURNING QUESTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Scotland is anxiously awaiting the result of the
American presidential election, in the hope that the
U.S.A. will go more or less wet, and thus revive the
whisky industry, which is in a parlous condition.”
—Cable.
Across the wide Atlantic’s heaving breast
He gazes pensively and half distraught.
Scant hope he sees, save in the drouthy
West.
Dark is- the sky and things are tense and
taut
For him who brews the heartening “peck
o’ maut,”
Whereon such store illustrious Robbie set.
All other burning topics count as nought
Beside the point: Will TJnele Sam go wet?
He looks around and sees a realm depressed
That erst his wares in glad profusion
bought.
The thumping excise chills his aching breast
And plunges him in ever gloomier thought.
His heart’s not in the Highlands, where it
ought
To be, if bards speak truth. He can’t forget
By day or night the stubborn fight that’s
fought
Around the crux: Will Uncle Sam go wet?
Stern, like his land, and wild, with lips com-
pressed
He weighs the planks on which the votes
are sought,
And ruminates on which will suit him best.
Will Roosevelt undo the ruin wrought
And break the net wherein old Scotland’s
caught?
I.as Hoover had it forced upon him, yet,
The bitter lesson Prohibition’s taught?
Beneath which flag will Uncle Sam go wet?
Was ever battle with such issues fraught,
Since Scot and Briton upon Flodden met?
In Caledonia what matters aught
lust now except —icill Uncle Sam go wet?
v.S.W.
IFORD.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
__ GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D.. M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
R London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E. 0.3.
tranches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
~ world.
oa nn _ of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
_______ Safe Rentals on application.
ď
ANNOUNCING P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and C. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the. same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
PRODUCERS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD V
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
JN.S.W, Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Forty years ago you wouldn’t have chosen
Hubert Murray as the young man likely to
quit Sydney and settle down to a lifetime in
Papua as nurse-in-chief of a nigger colony.
Hubert, the son of a fine old Irishman named
Terence Aubrey, was almost brought up in
Parliament: his father was President of the
Leg. Council, and after learning law the son
got "a job as draughtsman. Sydney knew
him, though, much better as a very eligible
and athletic young man—-the best swordsman
the city had produced up to that time. He
probably wouldn’t have believed it himself
if he had been told that he would later on
be a famous anthropologist—almost as
famous as his brother, England’s best-known
Professor of Greek.
One man drew a good consolation prize a
few days ago. Before the Australian Bank
of Commerce was swallowed by “the Wales."
its chief inspector, W. G. Hull, was the
general manager’s understudy ; at the moment
of the transfer he was in London complet-
ing his training for the star part. When he
returned it was to find there was no place
for him, and he was given odd jobs till he
was made one of the liquidators of the old
show. Then he was given an acting-in-
spector’s district, and last week, when F. N.
Robinson, head-office manager retired, Hull
was handed the job—one of the choicest;
plums of the service. Hull got his early
training with the old A. J. S. Bank (after-
wards the A.8.C.) in Far West N. S. Wales.
Thomas Playford, fourth of the line, is
contesting the Liberal ticket for the Murray
district, S. Aus. All the Playfords have been
big men. The first T.P. fought in the Life-
guards at Waterloo, afterwards settling in
Adelaide as preacher (unpaid) and gentle-
man farmer. No. 2, the best-known, was both
market-gardener and Premier at the end of
the century, finishing in the Federal Parlia-
ment, and" earning the name of “Honest
Tom.”
As a young man . John K. Caldwell was
on the road to becoming an industrial chemist
when he decided to take the turning into the
diplomatic service. His knowledge of Japan-
ese, acquired in the intervals of laboratory
work, earned him an appointment to the
U.S. Embassy at Tokio; terms at Yoko-
hama and Kobe followed. During the war he
was stationed at Vladivostok. Recalled home
JOHN K. CALDWELL, new Consul-
Generalin Australia for the U.S.A.
he rose, to the position of acting chief of
the sub-department of Far Eastern Affairs
at Washington. Before coming to Sydney,
he was Consul at Geneva, where he played
a leading part in the movement for the sup-
pression of the trade in narcotic drugs,
which the League of Nations tackled to such
purpose. The new Consul-General was born
in Ohio and is in his early fifties.
The late Justice Edmunds regarded most
things seriously, but his work in the N.S.W.
Arbitration Court extra-seriously. Early in
his career there he had to take a case relat-
ing to various jobs in the printing trade. As
The Bulletin wasn’t in it the old man
—he was already pretty old —asked to be
allowed to wander around the office, in his
spare time and ask anybody anything he
thought it might do him good to know.
Bulletin linotypers in those days worked
under a roof that wag half glass; but Ed-
munds stuck it in that department through
most of one of the hottest days of a hot
summer. He had been a good friend of
The Bulletin ever since the days in 1889
when he and Traill fought S. Sydney to-
gether and won it.
Dead in Adelaide, John Shearer, who did
much for the farming industry in S.A. At
Mannum on the Murray in 1877 he and his
brother David began to make wrought-steel
ploughshares and such things, to replace the
cast article that often broke. The business
developed into a factory in the city, too, and
eventually John and his sons took over this,
David’s family staying at the river town.
Professor Douglas
Mawson, appointed
to preside at the
next congress of the
Australian and New
Zealand Association
for the advancement
of Science, owes not
a little to the body
which has bestowed
the honor upon him.
When Mawson re-
turned from the Ant-
arctic after the
Shackleton expedi-
tion of 11X17-09, In!
proposed an Austra-
lasian expedition to
explore the Austra-
lian Antarctic quad-
rant, especially at
the western end. The,
association strongly
supported the project
and the result was
the expedition which
he led in the Aurora.
Apart from polar ex-
ploring, this 50-year-
old Yorkshire-born
scientist has done 30-
odd years of highly
useful work. Since
1920 he has been
Professor of Geology
and Mineralogy at
Adelaide University.
Queensland Par-
liament last week
elected George Pol-
lock, member for
Gregory, to the
Speaker’s chair.
Pollock, a dyed-in-
t h e-w ool A.W.U.
man, has been a
member of the
House since 1915,
and was chairman
of committees in the
last Labor Govern-
ment. His health is
DOUGLAS
MAWSON, the Ant-
arctic explorer, who
will follow Hubert
Murray as president
of the Association for
the Advancement of
Science.
not good nowadays, and this may have been
one of the reasons why he was not offered
a seat in the Cabinet.
Vernon Smith, assistant g.-m. of the Shell
Co. of Australia, has seen more of the world
than most men. Born in London 88 years
ago, he left Cambridge to enlist in the
Duke of Wellington’s Regiment in 1914.
He transferred two years later to Mespot,
and saw service in India also before leaving
the army. Returning to England he joined
the Shell concern and, receiving rapid pro-
motion, was appointed general sales man-
ager at Singapore in 1920. He has been in
Australia for two years. Now he goes on
a which will take him to Maori-
land, California, Missouri and England,
tarrying a while in each country before com-
ing back to Australia next May.
Archdeacon Oakes, dead at Bathurst aged
74, was ordained 54 years ago by Dr. Mars-
den, the first Bishop of Bathurst, and held
successive incumbencies at Coonamble. Wil-
cannia, Warren and Kelso. His archdeaconry
came, in 1905 and in the same year he was
appointed chaplain of the Commonwealth
Military Forces —he had previously served
in that capacity in the Boer War. As well
as a keen organiser, he was a vigorous
writer on a variety 0 f topics. His only son,
Arthur Wellesley Oakes, fell on Gallipoli.
George Mason Burns, ex-M.H.R., who
died at Cremorne (Sydney) last week, was
a sturdy idealist of the pre-war Labor school.
First elected to the Speck’s Assembly for
Queenstown in 1903, he defeated George
Fuller for the Illawarra seat in the House of
Reps, in 1914. only to be ousted in turn by
that astute Labor journalist Hector Lamond.
George did good work for the wage-earner in
his time; so did his wife, previously Lilian
Locke —a sister of the late Sumner Locke,
one of the Ma State’s first successful girl-
novelists.
The late Fred Britton was an art teacher
for nearly 20 years in Adelaide before mov-
ing to Sydney Tech. A show of his black-
and-white work at the Preece Gallery, in
the southern city, is marked by a firm line
in etching, an almost ethereal touch in the
drawings. The Adelaide Art Gallery, which
already had good work of his in the latter
medium, has bought two etchings, bits of old
Sydney.
Dr. Leslie Lamrock, who passed over in
Sydney last week, was the youngest son of
William Lamrock, who came from Ireland
to Australia 80 years ago. The son took his
M.D. at Edinburgh and practised for years
at Waverley, of which he was once Mayor.
He had many extra-professional interests
which made him widely known —horse-breed-
ing (in the pre-motor days), racing, golfing,
bowling, dogs and flowers. Brig.-Gen. John
Lamrock, of the 20th Batt. A.1.F., and
secretary of the Morefield Racing Club, is a
brother.
E. C. Dyason, the man with the'unusual
beard, who made the devastating analysis
of the Russian experiment in a paper read
(in his absence) at the Science Con-
gress, is a son of Isaac Dyason, who was
George Lansell’s manager at Bendigo for
years, and left a good wad himself. Young
Dyason, brought up as a mining engineer,
later on tried to revive Bendigo by a great
amalgamation scheme; but it failed. Then
he settled down as a broker and investor
and made a hobby of economics, but found
it hard to fit into any orthodox school. If
Russia had appealed to him nobody would
have been much surprised if he had come
home wearing a red tie. He says, however,
that what he saw wasn’t Communism; it
was State Capitalism.
J. McLeish, who succeeds the late C. H.
Broome as g.m. of Vic. State coal mine,
Wonthaggi, at a net salary of £824 p.a.
earned his promotion. He has been the mine
manager for the best part of 20 years; also
he is a surveyor and assayer, and he knows
how to handle men.
Just notched 103, Josiah Keys, in the
Clutha district of Maoriland. He can recall
being taken at the age of seven from Done-
mana (Cos. Tyrone) to Londonderry to see
the celebrations at the accession of Queen
Victoria. After spending many years in the
TJ.S.A. and Cuba he arrived in M.L, 52 years
ago and settled on the land.
John Graham, who has died at Dunmore
(N.S.W.) at 88, was the son of one of Dr.
John Dunmore Lang’s Scottish settlers who
established themselves in the Maitland dis-
trict over a century ago. He and his brother,
whom he outlived, specialised in the breed-
ing of high-class horses and cattle; their
Clydesdale stud at Clifden was one of the
best-known in Australia.
Chris Leon Gambetta, who passed over
in Melbourne last week, was known to most
of the 10,000 State teachers in Vic. before he
retired from his administrative job in the
Education Department in 1929 after 48
years’ service. He was a relative of Leon
Gambetta, the French statesman of half a
century ago. Two of his sons fell in the
Great War.
Most of Sydney’s blaek-and-whitewasliers
turned out of studios and other places last
week to welcome fellow-artist Syd Nicholls
back from the U.S.A. Syd, who does the
Fatty Finn comic for Associated News-
papers, went to Uncle’s wide domain a year
ago with as good a youngsters’ picture-
SYD (FATTY FINN ) NICHOLLS.
serial page in his bag as one could wish to
see. For it he had made a couple of years’
spare-time study of the old high-sterned
galleons and suchlike craft, and struck an
atmosphere in his drawings somewhere be-
tween Captain Kidd and the Ancient
Mariner. He has placed the job with Ameri-
can syndicates.
With the retirement of goods-superinten-
dent T. R. L. Sexton, Vic. rail chief Harold
Clapp loses one of his most experienced
transportation men. Sexton, who has had
charge of the big Melbourne goods depot
for 13 years, has been a railwayman since
1885; he has been ambulance officer, refresh-
ment services chief and stores supervisor
and he had a strenuous term assessing the
cost of suburban steam services when elec-
trification was in the air. It was he who
introduced the “flying-gang” system of ticket-
checking, and his book of instructions for
the work remains substantially the same as
when it was drafted 22 years ago.
Norman Lind-
say has a high
opinion of Leslie
Mellor, a young S.
Aus. civil servant
who has turned
author. H i s
“Quartette” has
been an outstand-
in g success in
London. He has
another novel com-
ing out there soon.
Myles Aloysius
Ferrick®, dead in
Brisbane at 57,
found politics a
medley of ups and
downs. He entered
the State Assembly
a s member for
Bowen in 1909, and
lost the seat three
years later. His
defeat proved a
stepping-stone, as
has often hap ■
p ened, to the
Senate; in 1913
he was the third
of the Labor trio
which dispossessed
Chataway, Sayers
and St. Ledger of
their jobs. He im-
proved his posi-
tion a year later,
when Joe Cook
secured a dissolu-
tion of both
Houses, running
second (to Thomas
Givens) in 1h e
Labor field of six ;
but he was beaten
LESLIE MELLOR,
a South Australian
civil servant and
novelist.
iii 1919 and the National Parliament knew
him no more. A year later he re-entered the
Assembly, winning the South Brisbane seaL,
but he went out again in 1929.
The Armadale cargo motorship, bound
from Cairns for London with sugar, takes
along as engineer P. B. Burden, of Adelaide
University, School of Mines and Tramways
Trust. At 23, he has impressed S.A. Insti-
tute of Engineers with a brilliant paper on
Diesel engines, and gained an appointment
with Gardner and. Sons, of Manchester, one
of the biggest British firms building them. He
is in his spare time a baseballer of inter-
state class.
Another link with the old squatter days
snapped when Henry Barnes passed out in
Brisbane. He was the eldest son of the
late Henry Barnes of Dyraaba. who was
connected with most of the noted beef barons
of the upper parts of the Richmond and
Clarence Rivers. In early times the firm
was known as Barnes and Bundock; later,
the senior partner built up on Dyraaba one
of. the best Hereford herds in the State; his
shield brand (an imitation of the abo. heila-
mon) stood for quality. After he died the
herd degenerated, but for some years Henry
the second was a judge of stock at Sydney
Show.
Frank Murphy, who succeeds E. G.
Bouncy, now editor of the Adelaide ‘‘News,”
as chief of staff on Melbourne “Herald,”
has been on that sheet for a decade in vari-
ous capacities. He is a former general presi-
dent of the A.J.A. Cox, a former Sydney-
ite, who has. been editing the Adelaide
“News” for six months, returns to Mel-
bourne as news editor of “Eterald.”
Few men care to draw attention to the
fact that they have been in gaol for fraud
by coming out of it with a clash of trumpets ;
Lord Kylsant, the shipping magnate who,
after completing a year behind the bars,
arrived at his castle in Wales in a car
drawn by 40 tenants amid “a scene of un-
usual enthusiasm,” furnishes a notable excep-
tion. Kylsant’s father was a parson-baronet;
his own peerage arrived nine years ago.
Besides having been a M.P. for 10 years,
he has been a Lord Lieutenant, a High
Sheriff and president of various Chambers
of Commerce. He owns two town houses and
two country seats, and is (or was) a member
of half a dozen exclusive clubs. He is in
his 70th year.
From 11. E. Moloney:—•
A reference to the appointment of D. J. McClelland
to Vic. Electricity Commission (B. 10/8/’32) con-
tains the statement that he carried out the Shannon
scheme for the Speck Government. The fact is that
O. J. Bell commenced construction work for the
Armstrong Whitworth Proprietary in 1925; in Sep-
tember, 1926, the writer succeeded him as agent
and engineer-in-charge, and carried out the remainder
of the construction work, completed in June, 1927.
D. Craig (now Chief Engineer of the Main Roads
Board of N. S. Wales) was chief engineer. Mr.
McClelland’s only connection with this work
was a visit in 1928, when he finalised some out-
standing claims.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
New Zealand Insurance Co.
Net To Re-
May, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ - £ £
1922.. 52,592 13$ p.c. = 100,000 1,051,602
1923.. 181,960 14.2 „ ~ 106,250 75,710 1,127,312
Taxation reserve not required 30,000 1,157,312
Transferred to capital, £150,000 . . 1,007,312
1924.. 186,257 12$ p.c. =112,500 73,757 1,081,069
1925.. 243,331 13.2 „ ~ 118,760 124,581 1,205,650
Transferred to capital, £150,000 . . 1,055,650
1926.. 208,617 11.9 p.c. =125,000 83,617 1,139.267
1927.. 244,172 12$ „ ~ 131,250 112,922 1,252,189
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,102,189
1928.. 226,536 11.5 p.c. =137,500 89,036 1,191,225
1929.. 232,088 11.5 „ ~ 137,500 94,588 1,285,813
1930.. 259,488 11.9 „ ~ 143,750 115,738 1,401,551
Transferred to capital, £300,000 .. 1,101,551
1931.. 199,392 10 p.c. =150,000 49,392 1,150,943
Written off, £20,748 1,1*30,195
1932.. 156,761 10 p.c. =150,000 6,761 1,136,956
There is £1,500,000 of capital, of which
£1,200,000 has come from reserves. The last
gift (£300,000 in 1930) made the scrip fully
paid to 20s. So, leaving the value of cur-
rency out of the reckoning, a 10 p.c. div.
is now worth Id. per share more than 11.9
p.c. was in 1930, and Bd. per share more than
13J p.c. in 1922. For many years returns
from investments followed close on the heels
of advancing dividends, leaving most of
the underwriting surpluses to fatten in-
vestments and returns therefrom. How-
ever, with a period of cheap money and low
values in prospect, performances of the last
decade ai'e not a reliable guide to the future.
For one thing, gift issues promise to be very
much wider apart.
To further protect book values, £20,748 of
reserves was rubbed out last year. The re-
turn from investments was £13,841 lighter
at £126,455, equal to 8.4 p.c. on capital, or
4.6 p.c. on the book value of investments at
May 31 (£2,703,328). Further contraction
can be expected as a result of the British con-
version loan, and of recent interest-reduction
legislation in Maoriland. where conversion
of the public debt on lines similar to the
Australian and British conversions is also
anticipated.
Underwriting has become less profitable,
too; a sharp contraction in net premiums,
due largely to the evaporation of insurable
values, has been accompanied by higher loss
and expense rates:—
Loss Expense
Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
1900. . £342,336 £195,864 £95,651 57.2 27.9
1906.. 565,149 | f *|gg’g9? 1 129,361 111.9 22.0
1910.. 605,509 391,321 172,593 64.5 28.6
1925. . 1,072,761 603,650 342,334 56.2 31.9
1928.. 1,150,232 694,344 361,367 60.4 31.4
1929. . 1,183,974 724.190 362,574 61.2 30.6
1930.. 1,199,382 737,719 362,277 61.4 30.2
1931. . 1,145,257 740,245 353,439 64.6 30.8
1932. 670,714 349,331 63.8 33.2
•General. tSan Francisco disaster.
Thus the surplus for the 12 months covered
by the latest figures was £30,306 as against
£51,573 and £99,386 for the two preceding
years. The net return from all sources was
thus 10.4 p.c. on capital. As to the future
much depends upon the extent, if any, to
which underwriting results improve; hopes
are that their lowest point has been passed.
The tendency of prices to firm, and the
improvement in the outlook generally, should
help to chock the headlong descent of pre-
mium income, while, last year’s loss experi-
ence is also encouraging, though this uncon-
trollable factor is a very doubtful one.
Policy-holders, however, are strongly pro-
tected, as they always have been: —
1914. 1930. 1931. 1932.
& c £ £ £
Paid capital 450,000 1,200,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities .. 252,929 360,203 379,972 301,724
Public securi-
ties .. 521,979 1,981,827 2,051,971 1,964,237
Mortgages . . 195,409 61,625 62,000 52,000
Shares, etc. 395 122,324 158,658 152,943
Freeholds .. 349,457 425,268 417,149 417,689
Agency bal-
ances and
cash .. 240,249 465,710 436,137 446,810
The contraction of £87,734 in the book value
of public securities is due partly to the
writing off already referred to. The item
consists mainly of British, Maoriland and
Australian Government paper. Net tan-
gibles were 251 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums, and that w r as 101 p.c. more than is
usually considered adequate.
No hint is given as to what amount, if
any, the trustee branch contributes to the
pool. The business in hand at May 31 aggre-
gated £5,890,161.
The market prices the scrip at 445. as
against 50s. a year ago. The return at the
lower figure is 4.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The backing is 355. 2d. in net tangibles.
G. J. Coles & Co.
r- Dividends N
Pref. To Re-
June, Profits. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
62,398
1928.. 52,030 2,250 12$ p.c. = 34,792 14,988 47,410
Net premiums on new shares, £27,426.. 19,984
Reserves.
1929.. 74.996.6,193 12$ p.c. = 45,800 23,003 3,019
Premiums on new shares, etc., £23,024.. 26,043
1930. .78,057 12,000 12$ p.c. = 49,100 16,957 43,000
1931. .66,944 12,000 10 „ „ 47,690 7,254 50,254
Premiums on new shares, £4500 .. 54,754
1932. .80,535 12,000 10 p.c. = 48,500 20,035 74,789
The evolution of the chain system in con-
nection with the sale of low-price miscel-
laneous goods has been one of the most profit-
able developments of modern merchandising
methods. The pillar upon which the system
rests is quick turnover for cash, and that
means good buying. The aim is to clear most
lines, pay the bill and pocket the profit all
within the time allowed under ordinary trade
credit. This removes much of the difficulty
usually involved in financing stocks and book
debts, and keeps down the capital investment
per store, while small personal service—
salesmanship is reduced to a minimum—
means low overhead.
Moreover, lighter purses have forced dis-
crimination in favor of cheaper goods, and
many who used to pass by Coles, where the
top price is 2s. 6d„ now go in. Last year
new stores at Adelaide, Brisbane, Ballarat,
Coburg and Sydney were added to the chain —
another at Perth will be opened in November:
Stores. Sales. Stores. Sales.
1924.. 3 £190,982 1929.. 14 £1,592,890
1926.. 6 563,466 1930.. 17 1,838.414
1927.. 8 837,621 1931.. 20 1,917,250
1928.. 10 1,052,882 1932.. 25 2,130,542
Thus the spring in sales was 11.1 p.c. as
against 4.5 p.c. in 1931. Gross profits
(£544,046) were £73,107 better; the growth
in exes. (£463.511, including provision for
taxation) was £59,515. So, after handing the
prefs their £12,000, there was enough to show
14.1 p.c. on average ord. capital as against
11.5, 16.8, 18.7 and 17.8 p.c. back to 1928,
and the 10 p.c. div. was repeated.
To help finance the year’s expansion 10,000
new ords. were issued to the staff, and share-
holders snapped a further 49,000 before the
books closed. Thus £26,210 was added to
paid capital, raising it to £656,210 at June
30; there was another £32,784 to come. The
£4500 of share premiums was struck off
the book value of goodwill, reducing it to
£25,500, which is not treated as an asset
herein. How the new money, together with
the year’s surplus earnings and an extra
£12,833 from outsiders, was used the follow-
ing table shows: —
1928. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Ord. capital £288,165 £437,177 £480,000 £506,210
Pref. capital 75,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Overdraft .. 11,679 20,426 3,642
Sundry creditors 30,613 30,649* 37,146* 46,337*
Freeholds .. 86,300 321,085* 331,817* 331,817*
Leaseholds . . 25,205 62,231 61,214 96,703
Fittings . . 31,857 90,095 94,087 125,940
Stock . . 237,914 243,406 224,345 245,364
Debtors .. 1,356 1,349 1,448 1,566
Cash . . 1,773 2,986 40,489 24,435
*Not including £130,000 due Dec., 1937, on
Bourke-street freehold.
At June 30 the average amount of stock per
store was £9814 as against £11,217 a year
earlier, and it appears to have been turned
over about 84 times, or at the same rate as
in the previous year. Taking the amount due
in 1937 into the reckoning, the more or less
liquid surplus (£91,386) was £7750 lighter
than at the previous balance.
The market prices the ords. at 365. as
against 265. a year ago. At the higher price
the return is 51 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
At 27.5. the 8 p.c. prefs. yield 5.9 p.c. Including
uncalled capital the net tangible cover is
£5 0s 2d., prefs; 225. 9d., ords.
Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Co.
Broking and Trading Departments.
Bonuses
to To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 44,353 8 p.c. = 21,316 14,490 8,547 14,006
Forfeited shares, £B2 .. .. .. 14,088
Added goodwill, £lOOO .. .. 13,088
1928.. 66,621 8 p.c. = 24,764 15,905 15,962 29,050
Forfeited shares, £B3 .. .. .. 29,133
1929.. 46,968 8 p.c. = 29,017 13,074 4,877 34,010
Drop in forfeited shares reserve, £17.. 33,993
June From Insurance Dept., £2300 .. 36,293
1930*.. 9,261 Nil Nil 9,261 45,554
From Insurance Dept., £2981 .. 48,535
1931.. 25,343 5 p.c. = 18,922 4,362 2,059 60,694
From Insurance Dept., £2607 .. 53,201
1932.. 31,289 5 p.c. = 18,985 7,008 5,296 68,497
With the assistance of well-established
farmers’ organisations, this co-operative con-
cern—it set up in Sydney in 1617 —
quickly developed into the largest in-
dividual handler of primary produce in
N.S.W. For the 11 years to the
close of accounts in 1929 profits aggregated
£439,235, of which £183,896 was paid in
divs. (the rate is limited by statute to 8
p.c.) and £140,611 in bonuses to clients.
Then the markets broke, and both share-
holders and clients were passed by in 1930;
but a bumper wheat harvest and savings in
handling charges brought them into the pic-
ture again in ’3l, when a 5 p.c. div. was
paid.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts less wheat was grown, but
the co. put more wool, sheep and cattle
under the hammer than ever before: —
Wool, Wheat,
Bales. Sheep. Cattle. Bushels.
1928.. 130,742 533,195 32,967 1,465,000
1929.. 167,224 430,976 26,600 3,335,000
1930.. 160,142 693,455 27,880 3,179,000
1931.. 145,685 432,028 17,307 16,349,911
1932.. 171,396 883,261 119,870 3,274,768
The Government paid a bonus of 4|d. a
bushel on wheat, which averaged about 3s.
for export as against 2s. s£d. in 1930-31,
and ss. and better before that. The
Sydney average for wool (£lO 15s. 3d.)
dropped 11s. Id. per bale, while sheep and
cattle prices slipped 20 p.c. and 35 p.c
respectively; also, the cO. reduced its selling
charges. So gross earnings (£210,027) were
£31,810 lighter; but £5946 more than that
was saved in exes. (£178,737, including
provision for taxation). So the 5 p.c.
div. was repeated and an extra £2646 of
bonuses (£7008) was handed to clients. The
£5296 that remained, together with £2607
from the Insurance Department, lifted re-
serves to £58,497 in excess of goodwill
(£27,692), not treated as an asset herein.
The outstanding feature of the accounts is
the extent to which the co. has borrowed to
lend:—
1Q97 loon 1031 loqo
Capital .. £266,467 £378,091 £378,431 £379,712
Mortgages . . 45,136 135,000 130,000 125,000
Overdraft .. 185,721 177,708 172,256
Creditors, etc. 311,230 506,923* 157,928 153,808
Freeholds, etc. 243,997 467,396 463,800 460,203
Debtors . . 386,328 791,732 486,051 476,446
Stocks .. 40,736 23,903 9,650 6,646
Cash, etc. .. 30,992 36,140 25,040 36,854
‘lncludes rural credits.
Thus when the books last closed there was
20s. Bd. of outside money at risk in the busi-
ness for every 20s. belonging to sharehold-
ers. Freehold and plant alone —the item in-
cludes Goldsbrough Mort’s old building at
Circular Quay, bought in 1928 —were £22.994
in excess of capital and reserves combined.
More or less liquids exceeded liabilities by
£68,882, an improvement of £13,777 during
the twelvemonth.
Everything hinges upon tho ability of
debtors to meet their commitments, and
whether the provision for contingencies
proves to be adequate. The outlook for both
wool and wheat has improved, and looks
like improving further. Though there are
dry patches, another good season is in
prospect, and the benefits of financial-
emergency legislation are beginning to be felt.
A lot depends upon what further relief pro-
ducers get from the burden of overhead, in-
cluding freight-rates and taxation.
Insurance Department.
The insurance section continues to be pro-
fitable :
Other
Pre- In- To Re- Re-
April, iniumg, come. Losses. Exes. serves, serves.
& £ £ £ £ £
1927.. 30.337 3682 17,288 11,482 5,249 34,408
J 928.. 28,149 1758 7,296 11,468 11,143 45,551
1929.. 46.598 22,109 16,603 7,886 53,437
To General Dept., £2300 .. • • 51,137
June,
1930.. 50.626 2301 23,179 18,804 10,944 62,081
To General Dept., £2981 .. .. 59,100
1931.. 36.458 2981 19,351 15,231 4,857 63,957
To General Dept., £2607 .. .. 61,350
1932.. 34.325 2607 18,335 14,557 4,040 65,390
Thus there was a drop of £2133 in last
year’s net premiums. Exes, made off with
42.4 p.c. of them as against 41.8, 31.7,
35.6, 34.5 and 25.7 p.c. back to 1927. Re-
serves are nearly double the amount usually
considered adequate.
Peters’ American Delicacy Co., Ltd.
* To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1922.. 25,647 13J p.c. = 10,647 14,594
1923.. 17,932 11 „ „ 16,005 2,918 11,676
Reserves.
1924.. 30,464 10 „ „ 15,000 15,464 3,788
Unexplained additions .. 47,644 51,432
1925.. 36,200 10 p.c. = 20,224 15,976 67,408
Unexplained additions .. 30,614 98,022
1926.. '43,175 11| p.c. = 26,250 16,925 114,947
Unexplained additions . . 43,964 158,911
1927.. 53,539 13$ p.c. = 36,024 17,515 176,426
Unexplained additions .. 63,578 240,004
1928.. 66,298 13$ p.c. = 48,953 17,345 257,349
Unexplained additions .. 86,018 343,367
1929.. 73,132 13$ p.c. = 51,136 21,996 365,363
Unexplained additions .. 81,432 446,795
1930.. 65,239 13$ p.c. = 55,929 9,310 456,105
Unexplained additions .. 35,444 491,549
1931.. 43,716 10 p.c. = 42,583 1,133 492,682
Written off investments, £25,000 . . 467,682
Unexplained additions, £32,482 . . 500,164
1932.. 22,779 10 p.c. = 42,583 480,360
Rapid expansion of the business during the
boom sent paid capital from £150,000 to
£425,835 by par issues. The new money,
together with most of the surplus earnings,
was invested in premises and a very efficient
plant, which, however, is now in excess of
trade requirements. So it has been decided
to use £28,389 of the cash balance at June
30 (£78,915) to return Is. per share on the
15s. paids and 4d. on the ss. paids, thus
reducing paid capital to £397,446 in 511,364
shares paid to 14s. and 169,247 paid to 4s.
Bd. Then 6s. of the uncalled liability is
to be cancelled, reducing the face value of
all shares to 14s. each.
Last year the public became still more care-
ful of the fewer pence in its pocket, and, ice-
cream being a luxury easily dispensed with
in hard times, the declared profit (£22,779)
was £20,937 lighter, making the slip £42,460
over the last two years. So, to pay 10 p.c.,
reserves were tapped for £19,804. That was
after £32,482 net was added to general, taxa-
tion and depreciation reserves, which were
lumped at £464,282, or £641 more than the
book value of plant and equipment—the
amount intended to cover loss of capital
through wear and tear could with advantage
be stated definitely; £70,000 of the £464,282
is accounted for by scrip received from sub-
sidiaries in payment for goodwill. There is
also an investment fluctuation reserve of
£60,000; it was reduced to that figure by using
£25,000 mainly to write down the book value
of investments representing the power cabi-
net replacement reserve (now £32,844) ;
the nature of the asset is not disclosed. The
“Wild Cat,” following its practice, has not
treated the co.’s own goodwill (£25,250) as
an asset.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances: —
1924. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £150,000 £425,835 £425,835 £425,835
Sundry creditors 75,086 25,326 15,295 24,650
Freeholds, etc. 137,855 241,148 247,208 245,445
Plant, etc. .. 83,262 446,168 463,592 463,641
Investments .. 4,313 152,310 155,755 133,043
Stock.. .. 7,238 11,340 13,057 13,491
Book debts .. 3,694 33,040 22,300 17,601
Cash .. .. 12 51,649 53,191 78,916
Thus, allowing for the final div. and return
of capital, outside liabilities were more than
covered by cash alone when the books closed.
The market prices the 15s. paids at 235.
9d. as against 19s. 3d. a year ago. Again
allowing for the div. and return of capital,
the investor at 235. 9d. who looks for a
shade over 5 p.c. on this money counts on
an 8 p.c. div. This would call for £31,795
on £397,446 of capital, or £9016 more than
last year’s declared profit. Including the
depreciation, etc., reserves, the net asset
backing per pound of paid capital is 48s. 2d.,
mainly plant, etc., worth what it can earn.
Queensland Trustees, Ltd.
Dividends and Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1922.. 6775 10 p.c. = 4829 7 ....
Provident Fund, £6OO J 1446 6 > 69e
Transferred to capital. £5050 .. 1,646
1923.. 7197 10 p.c. = 6365 (
Provident Fund. £541 J Z > HB7
1924.. 9221 10 p.c. = 5365
Written off premises, £l5OO 1762 4,699
Provident Fund, £ 594
1926.. 9172 10 p.c. = 6050'
Written off premises, £l5OO 1984 6,683
Provident Fund, £638
1926.. 9842 10 p.c. = 5050 7 40qf)
Provident Fund, £693 ) 40yy 10.782
1927.. 7913 10 p.c. = 5050 7 2127 19 909
Provident Fund, £736 ) 11 lz > 909
Transferred to capital, £12,625.. 284
1928.. 8492 8 p.c. = 6294 ( - ■
Provident Fund £746) 1452 L 736
1929.. 8496 8 p.c. = 7070 7 „
Provident Fund, £6OO ) 826 z > 662
1930.. 8675 8 p.c. = 7070 7 , 00 -
Provident Fund, £6OO ) 3 * 667
1931.. 4363 3$ p.c. = 3093 1270 4,837
1932.. 3359 4 „ ~3535 4,661
The directors sum up the position in this
way:—
The volume of new business entrusted to the co.’s
care equalled that of the preceding year so far as
it concerns the number of estates; but the sworn
value thereof was much below the average. The
shrinkage that has taken place both in the income
and capital value of all descriptions of investments,
coupled with difficulties in realisation, has greatly
reduced our immediate earnings. But shareholders
may look forward to better returns when the existing
depression passes away. The co.’s latent profits are
accumulating to the same extent a 9 unrealised trust
assets are increasing.
Corpus commission, which ranges from 1
p.c. to 2| p.c. on the capital value of estates,
is generally charged as and when the assets
are realised. It is difficult to say to what
extent capital values can be expected to
further improve; but difficulties now asso-
ciated with the administration of estates
are sending more business into the
care of the trustee cos., whose earnings
should benefit as the volume of trusts grows.
Returns on their own funds have been re-
duced by cuts in both rents and interest,
while Government levies have increased.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts the net growth in the volume
of trusts on the Q.T.’s books was £19,744
as against £124,310 in the previous year:—
Gross Exes.
June, Trusts. Earnings. Exes. to Gross.
1910.. £2,136,244 £9,096 £6,173 67.8 p.c.
1920.. 4,770,762 21,406 16,043 70.2 „
1925.. 6,696,698 37,106 27,978 75.4. „
1926.. 7,016,953 38,655 28,813 74.5 „
1927.. 7,331,236 39,421 31,508 79.9 „
1928.. 7,958,795 38,926 30,434 78.2 „
1929.. 8,787,065 39,661 31,165 78.6 „
1930.. 8,863,277 40,621 31,946 78.6 „
1931.. 8,987,587 38,208 33,845 88.5 „
1932.. 9,007,331 37,682 34,323 91.1 „
Including £lOOO set aside for the tax-
gatherer, it cost an extra £478 to handle
the larger business. Gross earnings were
£526 lighter; thus the net result was 3.8
p.c. on capital as against 4.9, 9.8, 9.6, 10.7.
15.6 and 19.4 p.c. back to 1926. Still, half
a point was added to the div., raising it to 4
p.c., which is worth 7 p.c. on old holdings :
7s. 6d. of the 17s. 6d. to which the 101,000 £2
shares are paid has been transferred from
reserves since 1917. The shrinkage in the
rate of net earnings is due mainly to the
facts already referred to, and partly, to the
capitalisation of £12,625 of reserves in 1927
and to heavier overhead, following additions
to the premises and staff.
Excluding an overdraft of £40,547 for
secured advances to trust estates, etc., there
was £9,128 coming to creditors at June 30.
Freehold and plant figured at £69,530;
public securities, £21,200; book debts and
cash, £15,958.
On the market 21s. is asked and 18s. 6d.
is offered for the scrip. At the middle
price the return is 3.6 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div.
basis, or 5.4 p.c. should the distribution rise
to 6 p.c. The backing is 18s. 7d. in net
tangibles.
Meggitt, Ltd.
y Dividends \
Pref.
May, Loss. 10 p.c. Ordinary. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 20,746 2000 Nil 144,495
Profit.
1923.. 36,857 8000* Nil 115,638
1924.. 27,726 4000 6 p.c. = 16,368 108,281
1925.. 21,410 4000 6„ ~ 16,368 107,239
1926.. 5,892 4000 Nil 105,34,
1927.. 30,115 4000 6£ p.c. = 20,461 99,693
1928.. 30,027 4000 7f „ „ 24,552 98,218
1929.. 31,385 4000 7£ „ „ 24,552 95,385
1930.. 31,628 4000 6J „ „ 22,506 90,263
1931.. 617 4000 1S„ „ 6,138 99,784
1932.. 7,623 3400 2i„ „ 8,184 103,743
•Includes arrears.
Exchange and primage are the factors
mainly responsible for the meagre pro-
fits of the last couple of years —the co.
buys linseed, its raw material, mainly
from India and S. America. Exchange added
nearly £32,000 to outgoings during the 12
months to the close of accounts in 1931, and
about the same again last year, though the
drop in the rate afforded a little relief
during the last half. Also a good
season and low prices greatly reduced the
demand for stock food in the pastoral
areas. But the enterprising management
turned its attention to the dairying industry,
where the demand for linseed cake, which
enriches the butter fats, continues to expand.
And there was a better demand for the oil
—it accounts for about one out of every three
tons of seed crushed —thanks to increased
activity in the lino, and paint industries.
Gross earnings (£90,823) were £9661
better; exes. (£83,200, including something
for contingencies) made off with an extra
£2656, leaving enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 1.2 p.c. on the £327,368 of ord.
capital. Still, 2i p.c. was distributed, re-
serves being tapped for £3961 to do it, re-
ducing them to £12,003 at May 31. Good-
will figures at £115,748, so £103,745 of the
capital was unrepresented by tangibles when
the books closed.
However, provided the outlook is good
enough, and proper provision has been made
for contingencies and finances permit, share-
holders may look forward to a little of what
was put aside when circumstances were more
benign. The position as balancc-slico.
figures show it is as follows: —-
1928. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £367,369 £367,369 £367,369 £367,369
Liabilities .. 44,419 72,452 61,113 41,811
Premises and , cofio .
plant .. 158,733 162,282 162,717 162,62.,
Stocks .. 86,257 89,519 113,066 95,49.,
Book debts .. 58,314 79,176 43,178 39,139
Cash, etc. .. 24,543 30,811 17,870 .17,910
Thus to lighten the outside debt by £19,302
the stocks item was reduced by £17,.» < 1 and
debtors’ balances by £4039. Altogether the
more or less liquid surplus (£110,<.,d. in-
cluding stocks) slipped £2273 during the
twelvemonth. Much depends upon the ngui e
at which stocks appear.
For many years the demand for linseed
as stock food greatly exceeded the demand
for the oil. But some relief in this respect
followed the establishment of the lino, in-
dustry here—for which this co. was large!>
responsible—and the arrangement made with
Blundell, Spence and Co., the English oil
people, to use their trade-marks. The resn
of the current year’s trading will depend
largely upon demand for the co 1 . s cake troni
the dairying districts, upon how the market
for the oil develops and what happens in con-
nection with exchange. ,
On the market the fully-paid pound ords.
are priced at 10s. as against 7s. 6d. a yeai
ago. The return at 10s. is 5 p.c. 0,1 a
p.c.’ div. basis, or 8 p.c. on a 4 p.c. distri-
bution. The first prefs.—there are 20,000
of them and a like number of seconds, both
10 p.c. cumulative —fetch 20s. 6d., and tin
seconds are at par. The net tangib.e bar -
ing is £l3 3s. 7d. firsts, £l2 13s. 7d. seconds
and 13s. Bd. ords.
(‘■Wild Cat ” continued on pane 16-)


gtt®
M -- §Mf%
SSSS
3fi£«S&3;
Vv-'' •• - -
•• :.• s$ v $ i
te* sss< s
' • sV'VV\ J
' • / : : 'xi'.: x -.v'" ..
•S '
S. -.V
SSsIIsHSEIISS?
*
KS X
*s£ M
- IlLjfeS?
2te&
»i-*r v*
:
■
$:3§£K5?3?J. v! v: > : mm
mmm
XxSfivxfev
■
.
.
mm
S®sss«?s§x>s 3
m
1
.
■
ftiKS
«s®<
#&$&&&&!
X-SSiSfi
'
s«s^k.
S'.vX
psi:;;:%
. .
S>X*S«w!wjwX*X:: », :
r
M
WixW
83$$9ft£p$$S8&@&
isi:S
SSKSSt
HMSHIMnp 1
: • • ■•wvjSSwAfflS*SBSS?
'■■* ' -x:.
IIPiP
■'■VXWX’WX
life
ini
M
:■'
mmm
All Stales Express
Glowing Tribute lo
CIUJ
c«
STAff fXPAESS
25©
CORK TIPPED
AND PLAIN
Stote (xprpss
State Express are being lit by more smokers,
in quicker succession, than was ever the case
with a quality cigarette before. Ardath blend,
treble wrapping, special cork and plain tips,
and extra-special value are the reasons.
When buying cigarettes, state expressly
" State Express" NINE for sixpence.
43178-8-2.
9 for 6
v * • jc .. .
18 for F- 27 for m
Also Flat Fifties, Flat Hundreds and
Round Air-tiaht Fifties.


Inventors.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Comrhonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Colmson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., ami
Oollison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY" Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. It. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
WALTER E. CAMERON, B.A. (Cantab.), late
Economic Mining Geologist F.M.S. Govt., formerly
Deputy Chief Geologist Q. Govt., reports on mining
prospects. Address: South British lnsur. Building,
28 O’Connell Street, Sydney. Tel: 86431. — Advt.
AMP
'a sure friend
in uncertain times
SOCIETY
m
3F=
m
I
£
1
sN\V
I
VM!
X
\
“^V
j
s
“Yes, a bad year,” says this
farmer, “but what’s the odds!
I made enough to live on; one
of my A.M.P. policies matured
and gave me enough to pay
off the mortgage and have
some over to invest; the other
policy protects the wife and
daughters.”
There are A.M.P. policies to meet any need: to make wife
and children secure; to pay off mortgages; to make old age
comfortable and secure; to provide for children s education;
for a dozen purposes. State your need and ask for sugges-
tions; full particulars gladly sent.
Australian Mutual Provident
Society
Head office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
F. F. McBRYDE,
Assistant General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
Branch Offices in Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
District Offices in All States.
Australian National Shale Oil
This is the co. which is being formed to
take over and work the immense shale deposits
—over 20,000,000 tons yielding 100 gallons
or more of oil per ton —which lie beneath the
hill that separates the Wolgan and Capertee
valleys, N. S. Wales. At its base this hill
is four miles through; the seam is about lb
inches thick on the Wolgan side, while on
the other or Capertee side it averages tour
feet. The deposit was first worked on a
large scale by the Commonwealth Oil Corp.,
an English concern, which began operations
in 1905. To save the cost of some 30 miles
of railway line the works were put on the
Wolgan side, at Newnes. The cost of mining
the narrower seam proved to be prohibitive,
and the retorts (there are 64 of them) and
other things were not all they might have
been, either.
So, after about If millions had been largely
squandered, the business passed to John hell
and Co. as mortgagees, shortly before the
war. The Fells, who had long been associ-
ated with the oil industry here and in Scot-
land, spent a lot of money reconditioning
half the retorts. But labor and other
troubles stood in the way, operations ceased
altogether in 1922, and the works have been
idle since. Meanwhile American oil cos.
were invited to come in, but they shied at the
proposition. In 1930 a group of the principal
mining cos. at the Barrier, who wanted
crudes for their new Diesel plant, bought the
undertaking from John Fell for £30,000. 3 he
collapse of metal prices is said to have dis-
couraged expansion of the Barrier co.’s
capital interests, and the leases, plant, etc.,
passed to the Commonwealth Government,
which appointed various committees to in-
vestigate the possibilities of reviving the
field. The outcome was the acceptance or
the proposals of It. A. Treganowan (chair-
man of Ramsay and Treganowan, oil dis-
tributors, etc., Melbourne) and C. O. Cham-
bers (a member of the Shale Oil Investi-
gation committee), the promoters of the
present co.
Nominal capital is half a million in pound
shares —200.000 participating preferreds,
8 p.c. cumulative, and 300,000 ords. Ail the
preferreds are offered; though the vendors
are to subscribe for 100,000 of these, they
“will be available to the public by transfer.”
Of the ords., 100,000 paids go to the vendors
(half each) for their option over the prop-
erty; the other 200,000 are in pickle.. The
£200,000 of cash asked for is to be used
for the purchase of leases and plant,
£35,000; driving the tunnel to the Capertee
side, including tramway, £52,500; cracking
plant, £55,000; reconditioning old retorts,
etc., £15,000. Brokerage (5 p.c.) and pre-
liminary exes, are put at £12,500, leaving
£32,000 for working capital.
The tunnel and cracking plant are ex-
pected to overcome the worst of the difficul-
ties of the past, though, of course, this
remains to be proved. Whereas up to only
90 tons of shale used to be treated daily, the
promoters consider the co. will have no
difficulty in obtaining an initial throughput
of 400 tons, later rising to 1000 tons daily.
It is claimed that a 58 p.c. recovery of high-
grade motor spirit and 25 p.c. fuel oil can
be expected as against 6 p.c. or more motor
spirit, and the balance kerosene, lubricating
oils, etc., in the past. Ramsay and Tre-
ganowan are to take the output of spirit
at Is. 3d. per gallon, and of crudes at 3d.
a gallon, at the works. After allowing
£19,759 for taxation (the co. has been especi-
ally exempt from the 5-M. a gallon excise on
crudes) and £23,851 for a capital sinking
fund (the aim is to redeem capital in 10
years), and assuming that prospectus esti-
mates don’t get astray, net profit is put at
£61,097 p.a., equal to 20.3 p.c. on £300.000
of capital.
W. H'. Gcpp has been appointed business
and technical adviser to the co. at £5OO p.a.
He certifies to the general soundness of the
proposals, but, as to cracking and refining,
says “it must be understood that I have no
working knowledge of this branch of the
industry.” This section will be under the care
of Mr. Lightner, who was superintendent of
refineries for unnamed oil interests in
America, and upon whose costs figures
prospectus estimates are largely based. Mr.
Chambers is to be managing director. The
articles provide that he may hold office for
five years at a salary and/or with the right
to participate in profits as determined by
the board. Mr. Treganowan, a director, is
also to be appointed general adviser to. the
co. at a fee not mentioned in the prospectus.
These payments will be in addition to the
scrip received as promoters’ consideration.
Two other directors are to be appointed.
The co. may go to allotment when 100,000
shares have been subscribed.
The aerial photographic survey being car-
ried out by Dr. Woolnough, Federal Geologi-
cal Adviser, in conjunction with the Austra-
lian Air Force, is to be extended to include
Singleton and Grafton (N.S.W.) ; Barkly
Tableland, Bathurst and Melville Islands
(N.T.) ; Exmouth, the Murchison and Irwin
River areas, Coolgardie and Forrest (W.A.) :
Eyre Peninsula (S.A.) ; and the Portland
area (Vic.). Woolnough is very sanguine of
success. W. T. Walter, the energetic man
aging director of Oil Search, Ltd., did much
to induce the Federal Government to under
take this work.
* >s * *
At least three gold prospecting parties are
now searching for the rainbow’s end in the
licart of Centralia. One left Brisbane some
weeks ago under Chapman, and another,
headed by J. T. Beckett, left the Northern
capital last week. Next week Errol Coote
and Lexiu-s Burlington, aviator and engineer
respectively, will set out via Perth and Kal-
goorlie to hunt for the reef recently re-
ported by Paddy Whelan and alleged to be
identical with Lasseter’s alleged reef. The
party is the advance guard of the West-
Centralian Gold Exploration Co., a Sydney
prospecting float which will throw off work-
ing cos. when prospects are considered good
enough. Capital is £BOOO in 2s. shares, of
which 60,000 are offered.
:I: * *
There has been a revival of gold pros-
pecting in the Warwick (Q.) district, where
some SO men are at work. Canal Creek.
Thane’s Creek. Pratten. Talgai, Leyburn and
Pal grave fields are all receiving attention,
and”some payable reefs have been discovered.
The total yield from the fields for July was
61 fiue ounces, valued at £270. Gold was
first discovered in the locality at Darky Flat
(Talgai), in 1860, when a nugget weighing
650 z. was found. The district also claims
to have been the spot where the first gold
was discovered in Queensland. Early in
1852 a shepherd is said to have found a nice
specimen at Lord John Swamp, Lucky
Valley: but there is no official record of it.
* * * *
Prospecting for gold in Queensland is
now receiving more attention than for
a generation past. Upwards of 2500 men are
engaged in the search, and many of them are
making good wages. The State’s gold yield
for 1951 (13,147 fine ounces, worth £55,842 1
was better than that of the preceding five
years. For the first seven months of this year
6795 fine ounces, worth £28,863, were won.
The figures should get a nice lift when Ml.
Coolon, Mt. Morgan and probably. Cracaw
get into full swing.
* * * *
In the Warburton district (Vic.) fine sand
in alluvial wash has given assays up to Ho/.,
per ton. The sand is 6ft. thick, 300 ft. wide
and occurs for two miles along the Yarra
River. Further testing is necessary before
the importance of the find can be gauged.
In July, Wiluna treated 25.433 tons of ore
for an average extraction (with gold at 85s.
per ounce) of 255. per ton; an unpayable
return if all costs are taken into account. But
with exchange at the current rate added,
the yield is increased from £35,573 to £60,839
in Australian currency, and with £30.521
chipped off for costs a working surplus of
£30,315 remains. Obviously the profitable-
ness or otherwise of many Australian gold-
mining ventures depends upon what happens
in connection with exchange. There ought
not, therefore, be too much haste by the
Government to cancel the gold bonus contract.
* :S * *
Some Kalgoorlie tributors are doing
rather well. Those in the Boulder extracted
30,000 tons last year for a return of £147,526.
excluding both the bounty and exchange.
The co.’s royalty was £27,293. About
the same tonnage of tributors’ ore was also
taken out of the Lake View group, but
exactly what the tributors got in return, and
what they paid the co., has not been broad-
cast. Recently the Lake View co. threatened
to abolish tributing. The Boulder board,
however, considers that the practice is
worth while.
QUESTIONS~ANSWEEED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Wliat is the position in respect of Broken
Hill Prop's debentures? —1717.
Last month, according to cable reports,
Maughan, J., in the English High Court,
decided that the co.’s debentures were pay-
able in London in English currency at the
option of the holder. The debentures were
issued to help the co. finance the outlay on
its great iron and steel enterprise. The position
in respect of the various issues is as fololws:
Date Rate Issue Mature Out-
of Issue. Amount, p.c. Price, at Par. standing.
,Tuly,T4.. £600,000 6 £97 1/7/’34 £49,700
Dee.,’l6.. 400,000 6 98 1/ 7 /’34 34,700
Oct,’2o .. 1,500,000 7 97 l/11/’4O 587,400
The 1914 issue was offered for public sub-
scription in Australia and London; the 1916
issue was offered in Australia; the 1920 lot
was offered to shareholders. Redemption is
made by annual drawings, at par. The
amounts shown as outstanding were at July
27 last. The co. has appealed to a higher
Court against the judgment in question.
Briefly, the history and present position of
Ballarat Woollen Mills? —1495.
Registered in 1916, and paid a run of over-
liberal 15 p.c. divs. But the plant, which
was old, failed to earn profits as post-
war competition sharpened. For five years to
close of accounts in 1928, losses aggregated
£140,929, of which £109.695 was special pro-
vision for depreciation. The slate was cleaned
by lopping £144,000 off capital, reducing it
to £96,000. In the following year, share-
holders lost a further two-fifths of their capi-
tal; a new co. of the same name took over
the’old one as a going concern for £57,600 in
scrip. Since then £10,292 of 9 p.c. pref.
money has been got in to provide working
capital. But the adjustment of book values
did not, of course, affect the earning capacity
of the plant. In 1930 a loss of £19,983 was
registered, followed by a loss of £912 lasi
year. No divs. have been paid. At Sept..
50 last £21,019 of the £67,892 of capital
was unrepresented by tangibles in the books.
There was £32.166 coming to creditors,
mainlv the bank. Freehold figured at
£14,970; plant, £36,998; stocks, £15,435:
book debts, etc., £11,636. Neither class of
scrip is listed.
In the “Insurance Supplement” {B.
20/7/’&Q you say there is nothing to be
gained by talcing out a whole-life policy and
'surrendering it at a given age in preference
to taking out an endowment maturing at that
age. Please explain why ? —1626.
The cover payable at death under a whole-
life policy is greater per £1 of premiums
than that offered under, say, an endowment
maturing at 60. That is because the office
assumes the average person will live beyond
that age. Because it has carried this greater
risk, and has anticipated that, it will be re-
ceiving premiums beyond 60, it makes
due allowance for the fact in the surrender
value. It would not be fair in a mutual
office to give Mr. Whole-Life the same sur-
render- or maturity-value per unit of pre-
mium (all other things being equal) as
that which Mr. Endowment is entitled to,
because Mr. Whole-Life has all along been
guaranteed a greater death-cover than Mr.
Endowment. ,
I am opening a set of books (following
instructions contained in your “Farm
Accounts”) for a grazing property, no books
having been kept previously. I have credited
the assets to capital account, but am at a
loss to know how to treat the advance from
the bank. It was £5OO originally, but I am
overdrawn £44 14s. 6d., making a total debi
of £544 14s. 6d. —1673.
The farm takes over the assets, and has
given the proprietor credit for their value,
the particular asset accounts being debited.
If the £544 14s. 6d. was all on overdraft,
it would be correct to debit Capital and
credit Cash Account (call it Bank Account
if you like) ; if, say, £5OO was a mortgage
it would be better to credit that, amount to
a Bank Mortgage Account, the £44 14s. 6d.
being credited to Cash Account. Take care
to journalise all bank charges during the
year as explained on page 9 of the booklet.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
G.L.: (1) See “ “Wild Cat’ Monthly” for August,
1932. (2) No, they are a long-term speculation....
A’.R.H.: For review see “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” April,
1932. Scrip is not listed; write to the secretary
and ask if he can find a buyer. —M.C.: (1) Recent
developments make Great Boulders worth holding;
they are priced around 7s. lOd. in the market. (2)
All divs. are paid in sterling; nothing to gain in
this respect by remaining on London register....
N. de W.: The method adopted appears to be correct
and should g'i ve fairly satisfactory results. Another
way would be to run the stuff through quicksilver
wells in the hope of amalgamating any fine gold
that may be passing away from the sluice b0x....
L.F.: Neither The Bulletin nor the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Mines has ever heard of a case in which
gold, or any other mineral, had been discovered by
means of a divining r0d.... J.A.C.: (1) Barclay’s
(London). (2) National City; National Bank of
Commerce (both New York). (3) Royal Bank of
Canada (Montreal). (4) National Bank of Aus-
tralasia ; Bank of N. S. Wales. (5) Possibly the
Standard Bank of S’Africa, though Barclay’s
“Monthly” contains some S’African news. All are
free, though cost of postage might have to be paid
in some cases... .D.S.: No; it is a weak office....
A.8.C.: The F. and S. office has been taken
over by the Pearl Assurance Co., which had funds
totalling nearly £60,000,000... .H.D.C.: Advise
us whether your friend knows the co.’s name and
address... .D.E.L.W.: Follow the “Wild Cat” column
and “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” criticisms; though we do
not give tips the cos.’ finances and prospects ar’e
closely analysed. To be a successful investor an
understanding of the merits or otherwise of a stock
is a first essential, unless you have an expert adviser
or are extremely lucky.... S.H.E.: Stone and Cox’s
“Insurance Tables” say that surrender- or paid-up-
values are allowed by the co. after a policy has
been in force for three years. Ask for a paid-up
policy (that is, a policy of reduced amount in
respect of which no further premiums are payable),
and take out a policy in the other society you
mention. If a paid-up or surrender-value is not
granted to you, write again.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
“The Wail of the Grazier”
The Grazier’s Losses.
“Widgee”: “Merchant” (B. 20/7/’32)
writes: "I doubt if those graziers who are
unencumbered cannot still make a profit.”
In “Merchant’s” business there are no
droughts, no floods and no blowflies; there-
fore no loss of capital through these channels.
When a grazier has fat sheep he must sell
at whatever price lie can get in the open
market; if he misses, they may not be fat
again for 12 months or more. He must take
what he is given for his wool, or he cannot
sell it at all. Then comes a drought, which
often ends in a flood, leaving his capital
very much depleted. No doubt “Merchant”
does not have such a big turnover as he did
in good times; but most of his goods, if he
cannot get cost price, plus a set per cent, of
profit, stay up on the shelf—out of reach
of drought, flood and blowflies. Let “Mer-
chant” have a look at the profit and loss
account of the average grazier, and I think
he will decide to carry on at his present
business, and not take up grazing.
Grazier and Manufacturer.
“Tarwon”: I support the remarks of
“Merchant.” The grazier is talking as though
he alone counted in the affairs of the State, and
as though he alone is suffering; and as long
as he gets out of his troubles he does not seem
to care a hang who goes under. I am not a
merchant, except that I sell my own products,
and since the concern with which I am con-
nected employed over 600 men, I think we
were doing as much for the country as any
grazier who had probably half a dozen “hands. ’
Yet during the past 12 months or more,
during which my co. has not only not earned
a penny, but has lost tens of thousands of
pounds, we have seen a continuous struggle
on the part of the squatter to still further
increase the exchange premium, which we
who import raw material have to pay. I have
seen most of the savings of a life disappear;
yet. I, who employ 50 times more labor, as a
rule, than the average grazier, am asked
to provide a bonus for men who are in no
worse position than I am.
Gbazjer and Merchant.
“D. Mackay”: “Merchant” says only
two out of fourteen companies he is inter-
ested in pay dividends. Our most important
industry (primary and otherwise) is wool-
growing ; hence I draw the conclusion that
Government mishandling of transport and of
all matters which affect the cost of wool
production, combined with the fall in the
price of wool, is the biggest direct depress-
ing influence on “Merchant’s” 14 cos. Gra-
ziers were among the first sufferers. They
have now withstood three years of unprofit-
able trading. Their reserves, already de-
pleted by drought in many cases, are almost
exhausted. I fail to see how city business
can again prosper until their position is
remedied. For this reason we seek and expect
the co-operation of such business men as
"Merchant” to help us reduce the consider-
able proportion of costs of production out-,
side our control. A sum in excess of
has been spent on station im-
provement to enable Australia to pasture
110,000,000 sheep. It is sufficiently serious
that this vast sum is at present earning no
interest. I earnestly assure “Merchant”, not
only is this so, but that the returns are not
sufficient to. pay running expenses (exclu-
sive of any interest or return to the grower)
on efficiently run properties. In this connec-
tion it must be. remembered that most of our
sheep country is subject to drought and an
average yearly expense must be struck to
reach a fair estimate of running expenses.
As graziers we are doing our utmost to
arouse the Governments. So far we have
addressed deaf ears. Surely the city must
realise its advantage in helping us to obtain
a reduction in the large part of our costs
that are fixed by State and Federal authori-
ties.
Overstating the Case.
“W.S.”: Unquestionably the wool indus-
try is in a bad way, but it is not so desper-
ately placed as one would gather from the
remarks of the chairman of the Gunnedah
meeting (B. 20/7/’32). He quoted figures
of the Sydney sales in June. Now, offerings
in June are made up mostly of low-grade
wools, crutchings, and so on. To take the
bale average of winter sales and represent
it as the average for Australia’s clip is mis-
leading, to say the least. In recent weeks
good fleece wools (not super) have been
sold privately up to 14d. in Melbourne. Pro-
paganda for relief of the trials of the gra-
ziers is all very well, and thoroughly justi-
fied, but it ought to be free from exaggera-
tion. “An Old Grazier” (B. 20/7/’32) says
he gave away some crutchings and lambs’
wool. How much did crutchings bring per
pound in the years 1910-14? Not very many
years ago very low-grade wool was “dug
in. Crutching as a general thing is not
done for commercial purposes. So why
expect what is generally termed wool, but
much of which would be better for growing
cabbages, to cover costs of an operation under-
taken primarily as a protective measure for
the sake of the sheep? Some crutchings wool
is good (in June up to 6d. was got in Mel-
bourne) ; but a great deal of it —well, it’s
not wool, to put it politely.
Wool Averages.
“A.8.C.” : To get the true perspective of
the slump in wool values, one vital fact must
be included. Prior to the war period, when
averages were somewhere about the present
level, the top price for each selling season
was in the vicinity of 16d, and that for about
_0 bales. During the last season the top
pnee was 38d., and probably a hundred thou-
sand bales sold at 16d. and better. This
makes the lot of the average grower on
average country so much worse.
That Wool “Commission.”
Valerin”: Even if it had to step on the
gas to cut the ground from under the feet
etui . Rom a and Moree rebels, the Federal
* net could have made a better job of
the 4\ 00l Commission. It is altogether too
C J m %LTLn is c , omi)osed of too many
fnwt f rds W - ho cau neither learn
1.01 toigct. a committee of three—a tech-
nician, an economist and a financier—was
all that was needed to carry out the investi-
gation. Thousands of graziers throughout
the Commonwealth are extremely bitter
against the tragic stubbornness of the
Australian Wool Council in dealing with
the wool question, and they have argu-
ments to back their opinions. Under
these circumstances the acceptance of seats
on the commission by members of the coun-
cil shows a very questionable taste on their
part. It is easy to forecast the report: Re-
duction of costs; extermination of the tariff;
juggling the exchange; anathema of stabi-
lising price schemes; bouquets for the
brokers and whitewash for the Wool Coun-
cil. The business is a farce which may
easily turn into a tragedy for woolgrowers
and the Government which walked so care-
lessly into the trap.
Advantage of Local Industries
“Woorinen”: The advantage of having
Australian factories was brought home to
dridd fruits growers in Vic. and S.A. last har-
vest. It was the wettest season in the his-
tory of the industry and sun-drying of the
sultanas and currants became hopeless. It
looked as if at least one-third of the crop
would rot on the drying greens. Fortunately
one or two machinery firms had been study-
ing this matter, and in rapid time were able
to turn out dehydration plants for artificial
drying. Orders placed were filled quickly.
In my district seven of these plants were put
in in three weeks from time of ordering,
each with a capacity of two tons per filling,
and three fillings per 24 hours. As a result
hundreds of tons were saved, and, as this
year growers are getting the highest price
for 10 years, the plants have paid for them-
selves, and are still there as an insurance
against future rains. If we had had to
depend on imported machinery, all this would
have been lost. The principle embodied in
these plants is simple—heated air is drawn
through a long chamber by a fan, fruit being
stacked on trays in the chamber.
Trade with the Islands
“Solomonoo” (Solomon Is.) : Our little
island trade does not amount to much, I sup-
pose ; but every little helps, and after many
years’ experience I can say definitely that
Australian manufacturers, merchants and
agents are as much to blame for our orders
going overseas as the politicians who impose
ridiculous restrictions. Time and again we
find that the agent is not qualified to act
in that capacity, and hardly knows one end
from the other about the goods he handles.
Further, as often as not we find we can
import goods from overseas via Sydney, and
pay the extra freight and charges from Syd-
ney here, and then sell retail at a lower
price than the agents’ wholesale Sydney bond
price!
As for the Australian merchant and manu-
facturer, he must be told firmly that his
time-worn “Anything is good enough for the
islands” is about worn out. We want to do
business with Australia, if only for geo-
graphical reasons (though there are others) ;
we know she can turn out a heap of the
stuff we want; but we are fed to overflowing
of being told “Take what we like to send
you or go to blazes.” The engineering trade
is a particular offender in this regard. If
we say we want a metal benzine tank in
place of a sheet-iron one, which is standard
equipment with an engine, and which here
rusts to pieces in a week or two, we are
curtly told “We do not supply tanks which
we consider unsuitable.” Another annoying
laxity is this trade’s treatment of correspond-
ence and queries for quotations; it is the
exception rather than the rule to receive a
prompt reply. As for repair work, one can
only think it is done in most instances by
apprentices at award rates of a pound per
hour.
We are ready to do our mite towards our
country’s rehabilitation, but when is our
country and particularly Sydney going to
wake up?
Australian Rice in Fiji
“Taveuni” (Fiji) : There is a ready
market for rice in Fiji; the annual con-
sumption is over 8000 tons. Of this amount,
on an average over the last five years, 1400
tons have been imported annually, mostly
from Rangoon. Australian rice can be
landed here cheaper than the Rangoon pro-
duct, yet the natives and Indians will not
have it. On the copra plantation from which
I write the laborers consume 14 tons a
month, but they won’t have the Australian
article. They have tried it, and their com-
plaint is that when cooked it is mushy and
will not keep good even for a few hours,
and they don’t get the nourishment froin it.
Apparently the rice is over-cleaned and over-
polished, and essential vitamins are lost in
that way. I suggest that some Australian
firm study our requirements and forward a
sample to Brown and Joske, Ltd., Suva,
Fiji, the biggest rice-distributors in the
colony.
Mareeba, on the tablelands behind Cairns,
is having still another time on earth. One
by one its earlier glories have departed—
it even had a brewery once—but now it be-
lieves that tobacco will pin it on the map.
A couple of years ago it had one grower;
now there are 482, with a crop this
year of 1000 tons. Mareeba’s strong
feature is that it escapes the hot winds
which are likely to spoil the chances of
several other Australian fields —especially
those well inland.
* * * *
Seven years ago the Queensland Forestry
Board established an experimental station
at Beerburrum to test exotic pines on aban-
doned land. In the last six years 8600 acres
have been planted, mainly with softwood
trees to the number of 6,000,000. Last year
2800 acres were planted, and this year’s pro-
gramme embraces a further 2700 acres.
Much of the plantation is Florida yellow
pine, which at home produces turpentine in
about 15 years.
* * :]s *
“O. W. Waireki”: Though Maoriland is
becoming “the dairy farm of the Pacific,” as
predicted by late Prime Minister Massey,
condensed milk is being imported. I re-
cently bought in Gisborne several tins bear-
ing the label of a Trowbridge (Eng.) firm,
the milk being as good as, but no better
than, M.L. condensed. The only difference
was the price. The English milk cost 9d.
a tin, the local product is lid. Surely there
is something seriously wrong somewhere.
“A.8.C.”: Just at present I almost live
on rabbit-skins. In an effort to obtain full
value, I lately sent direct to city (Sydney)
selling agents, after (declining Is. per pound
at my door, 50 miles from railhead, from a
local buyer, who travels around in a motor-
truck collecting, and then sells on the city
market. I lost 7 per cent, in weight to' start
with and got Bd. per pound, though the
market had firmed 2d. per pound in the
interval. After a drop of 2d. per pound I
can still obtain Is. from the same local
buyer. As this is common experience, my
conclusion is that large sellers get a prefer-
ence in the grading, at the expense of the
trapper who sends direct. Somebody ought
to see that that's stopped.
ANOTHER MIXTURE ALTOGETHER.
MR. DIEHARD, M.L.C.: “Are you sure it’s all right? Your predecessor tried to poison me, you know.”
DR. STEVENS: You'll find my medicine is different. It tastes like poison, but has the effect of monkey-glands.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
u?, iA »r , ‘‘Saint Joan”
Han Majesty's “Bitter Sweet”
t>TATE Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
5?* 4 , 1 * Grand Opera
ING s “Dr. Pygmalion”
bTATE Movies and Talkies
>
Many years ago, in days when G. B.
Shaw probably was much more interested
in the Fabian Society than in Jeanne d’Arc,
another famous humorist attempted the task
of humanising the girl who exercised such
a profound influence on the history of
Europe. Mark Twain, whatever his inten-
tions when he commenced to assemble his
historical material, fouud more cause for
tears than for laughter in the story which
has its sad climax in the execution at Rouen.
Shaw, using substantially the same facts,
produces in his play “Saint Joan” a juster
result by convincing us that the execution
mattered very little to Joan, save in the
sense that it clinched the success of her
mission. Dame Sybil Thorndike, who, sup-
ported by a well-chosen cast, introduced the
play to Sydney at the Royal on Saturday
night, makes Joan an ineradicably cheerful
creature. She is the only character who
doesn’t argue around it and about. Hers
is the tremendous strength of a clear pur-
pose and a simple faith. She doesn’t need
to argue, though she pleads, as eagerly as a
child pleads for a stick of lolly, and as art-
lessly, for what she wants. Hers is the breezy
diction of a North of England mill lass —a
near-enough equivalent for the French of a
Lorraine farmer’s daughter. It is easy to
see why the soldiers, from Dunois down to
the rank and file, adored her; equally easy
to see why authority, as represented by the
feudal lords and ccclesiasticism, saw in her
an enemy. Shaw, who puts into the mouths
of such men as King-maker Warwick and
the Bishop of Beauvais close-reasoned,
sophisticated logic that they, probably, were
incapable of in actuality, makes Warwick
see in the Maid the embodiment of nation-
alism. The Bishop sees Protestantism. Now
if history were capable of a purely econo-
mic interpretation their victory should have
been final and decisive; instead of which,
in the epilogue, when disembodied spirits,
including Joan’s, foregather 25 years after
the execution, Warwick confesses it was a
“political howler,” and the Bishop bitterly
rues its effect upon his reputation and the
welfare of his soul. In short, the Tories
got the worst of it, and Shaw’s chortle of
joy sounds throughout the final scene.
The merit of Dame Thorndike’s portrayal
of the Maid is simplicity. She is the centre
of every scene in which she appears, though
more often than not the spotlight plays on
some other character. In her voice trembles
the burning zeal of the girl who believed
herself the instrument of divine powers, and
imbued others with that belief. When the
bluff Sieur de Baudricourt declares “there
is something about her,” as his explanation
of why lie obeys her, the explanation seems
reasonable ; even obvious.
Dame Thorndike’s company supplies some
very fine characterisations as a foil to Joan.
Lewis Casson’s Bishop of Beauvais glows
with implacable resentment. Chaplain de
Stogumber, impersonated by Norman Shel-
ley, is Caesar’s British secretary, trans-
planted from “Caesar and Cleopatra” almost
intact. Bruce Winston’s Warwick, imper-
turbable, suave when bullying won’t serve,
is as utterly unscrupulous in his way as
the Vice-Inquisitor, played by Christopher
Casson. is in his. Having secured Joan’s
conviction this soft-spoken, venerable old
gentleman declares, while the burning is in
progress, that Joan is utterly innocent:
“Why, she didn’t understand a single word
of what we were talking about.” Martin-
Harvey’s Dauphin, a thrifty half-wit, who.
as he explains, saves himself a lot of trouble
and does less harm than anyone else by
letting a topsy-turvy world lie top-side down,
is so utterly selfish and cowardly that he
provokes in the audience, as in Joan, merely
an attitude of almost affectionate tolerance.
She calls them all by their baptismal names.
The Dauphin is “Charlie, lad”; Dunois, the
Bastard, is “Jack”; Cauchon, Bishop of
Beauvais, is “Peter.”
The play is very effectively staged, and
though the costumes designed for it are in
some instances fantastic in the extreme,
they seem appropriate enough to period and
circumstances. Incidental music, by John
Foulds, also fits snugly.
¥ # *
Judging by its reception on Saturday night
at Melb. King’s, Harrison Owen’s “Dr.
Pygmalion” is likely to be consulted by large
numbers of theatregoers in quest of a mild
sedative for troubled nerves, coupled with a
tonic of easy laughter. Various derivatives
of this aspirin compound have been put on
the market from time to time, but the ex-
Buuletin contributor is the first Australian
to write a prescription of the sort which is
up to international standards. The narrative
starts in the mood of French farce with Mar-
garet Rawlings self-sacrificingly running the
risk of bed sores in the cause of public enter-
tainment by being an invalid, as she was in
“The Barretts.” In this case she is the vic-
tim, not of a father’s will to power, but of
a conspiracy on the part of her husband, who
is in the toils of another woman, and is aided
and abetted by Bellenden Clarke as an old-
fashioned medico who sees humanity as com-
posed of people who are in hospital and
people who ought to be there. Barry Barnes,
as a dominating young physician, assumes
charge of the case in a highly unprofessional
manner. He prescribes a champagne supper
and a visit to Paris. The supper is inter-
rupted by the husband, and the doctor
hides in the lady’s wardrobe. In the
second act she returns from Paris re-
juvenated by a queue of suitors, two of
whom call on the husband and ask him
for his wife’s hand, with the honorable pro-
viso that they are prepared to wait for the
necessary divorce proceedings. This situation
would be too much for Melbourne audiences
if it were placed in old-fashioned surround-
ings ; but the husband’s flat is as lawlessly
modern as the situation, the fittings being
supplied by Frederick Ward, Melbourne’s
foremost designer of futurist chairs and
tables., The last act, in the futurist doctor’s
futurist consulting-room, is another master-
piece, which suggests that the modern art
movement in Melbourne will end by supply-
ing J.C.W. with some new scene-painters
and stage carpenters.
To a number of preposterous situations
Owen gives an air of naturalness, which
leads one to hope for something more original
than the stereotyped ending, when Miss Rawl-
ings, too young and lissome to be the mother
of the buxom Nancy O’Neil, decides that it
is her wifely duty to smooth the bald head of
husband Harvey Adams instead of following
her natural inclination to stroke the hand of
Dr. Barry Iv. Barnes for the rest of her tem-
poral existence. The evening leaves the spec-
tator with the pleasant feeling that he has
been agreeably lawless without: being a party
to the social revolution. Nevertheless, the
last act leaves the impression that the author
has made the plot proper in spite of itself.
The acting honors went to Miss Rawlings
and Barry Barnes. Harvey Adams was too
hampered by a melodramatic past to be con-
vincing. Compton Courts would have made
the part a subject for boundless hilarity. In
fact, a tendency to make the whole piece
dramatic and sentimental rather than farcical
and conscienceless was the only fault in the
producing.
“Because of the Billycock,” a “mental melo-
drama” by Gabriel Toyiie, was the curtain-
raiser, and gave Margaret Rawlings an
opportunity for sustaining a fantastico-
realistic mood of which she took full advan-
tage.
There was an exposition of proletarian
drama by the Workers’ Art Club at the
Temperance Hall, Melbourne, last week.
The bourgeois Taits charge anything up to
10 shillings for their nightly doses of capi-
talistic entertainment, but tickets for the
p.d. cost only sixpence and were appropri-
ately printed on red paper. Many of the
ladies in the audience wore red blouses and
the men’s neckties and the programmes were
of the same sanguine color. An atmosphere
of intense seriousness pervaded the house.
"SAINT JOAN ” AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
(Left to right, top to bottom): Martin-Harvey as the Dauphin, in a shocking old hat;
Dame Thorndike as Joan; Bruce Winston as Warwick the King-maker; Tom
Tracy as the business-like Executioner; Zillah Carter as that ladylike gentleman
Gilles do Rais; Norman Shelley as Chaplain de Stogumber, who believes that
England is Right; Lewis Casson as the Bishop of Beauvais, who believes in
very little.
The proletarians showed the same grim de-
termination to suffer in the cause of
intellectual uplift as the self-sacrificing bour-
geoisie at Italian opera. Their desire for
martyrdom was gratified, if this Showman’s
reactions are any criterion.
“The current art of Capitalism, the art of
the lap-dogs and the flunkies of the boss-
class, is, equally with the pulpit and the
press the opium of the people. Cinema,
theatre, novelist, artist, poet, all serve, wit-
tingly or not, to divert the attention of the
toiling masses away from the real solution
to the problem of their impoverishment and
degradation.” Thus the prospectus of the
Workers’ Art Club. The piece selected for
presentation was “Masses and Man,” by
Ernst Toller. Toller suffered six years’ im-
prisonment in Germany for revolutionary
activities and wrote his drama while in
prison. It poured white-hot from the re-
torts of his moral indignation into moulds
of expressionism. In the script such stage
directions as “Silence flickers,” “Silence
drips,” “Silence is feverish,” abound. The
attempts of Silence to follow the drama-
tist’s instructions at the Temperance Hall
were frequently greeted with proletarian
titters, sternly suppressed by the more
class-conscious members of the audience.
The characters are The Woman, Her Hus-
band, The Nameless One, An Officer, A
Priest, etc. The play opens with a woman
urging the workers to rise up and smite their
oppressors. She, herself is a member of the
intelligentsia. Her husband enters. He is
a State official. He warns her of the con-
sequences to the State and his career of
her actions. She refuses to listen.' The
revolution happens. The woman is appalled
to find that the masses in power treat the
bourgeoisie exactly as the bourgeoisie treated
the masses. She introduces counsels of
moderation and the masses decide to shoot
her.. Iler husband offers to rescue her but
she refuses, as the price of her freedom
will be the life of one of her gaolers. A volley
of shots brings down the curtain. In ex-
pressionist drama you are not allowed to
consider the figures on the stage as indi-
viduals ; they are symbols. To help the illu-
sion the face of one character fades into
another, and the masses chant their lines
in chorus to give the effect of crowd emotion.
But the illusion failed completely. One
couldn’t help wondering how a real woman
would have spoken to her civil service hus-
band—certainly not like a leading article
from the “Moscow Herald.” One couldn’t
help wishing the Nameless One wouldn’t be
such a colossally long-winded bore and would
turn into a human being, if only for a sec-
ond. Also one couldn’t help wondering
whether the proletarians assembled wouldn’t
have vastly preferred that typically bour-
geois production “Getting Gertie’s Garter.”
# # *
"Cavalleria Rusticana” is the nearest thing
to realism which the Firm has yet hurled
into its opera repertoire at Melb. Royal. If
it were told in the terms of Collingwood and
Fitzroy pushes, audiences would find it sor-
did and turn their noses up at it. Decorated
by Mascagni’s somewhat reminiscent bur
satisfactorily ferocious music, it passes
muster as a romantic tale of love and blood-
shed amongst the Sicilian mountains. As
told by the present co. it did not err on the
side of understatement. As Alfio the bullock-
driver, whose wife lias been pinched by an
Italian returned soldier, Ilio del Chiaro
ripped and roared about the stage, some of
his singing being the musical equivalent of
very bad language. High-heeled shoes gave
Oreste de'Bernard! (Turiddu) an extra inch,
which lie badly needed, considering that one
of his loves was Anna Surani; but he was by
long odds the best actor in the entourage.
His calm detachment while Santuzza and
Lola (Grazia Angolan) were fighting over
which should have the privilege of burning
his breakfasts was a welcome note of re-
straint in the general orgy of histrionic frenzy,
to which the Surani added more than her
quota. That lady’s habit of swinging about
the stage as if she were at the end of a crane
militates somewhat against enjoyment of her
magnificent singing.
The warring passions of “C. Rusticana”
had hardly subsided when a fresh storm of
wounded love and jealousy arose with the
lifting of the curtain on “Pagliacci.” A
better version of the Prologue than Gran-
forte’s, at least dramatically, w T as given by
John Brownlee in the previous J.C.W. sea-
son and the lighting of the item showed a
lack of thought on the part of the producers.
All through the subsequent proceedings Gran-
forte behaved more as if he were on
the concert platform than related to his stage
companions by ties of love and hatred. One
of these nights an excited woman in the stalls
will hand up her baby for Granforte to kiss
and that will be a fitting recognition of what
he appears to be aiming at as an artist. Not
that this will affect his popularity. It will
probably set a seal on it. Having become
inured to the convention that twice round a
prima donna is once round Flemington, one
was vaguely conscious that there was some-
thing wrong with Cesarina Valobra’s dainty
Nedda, until one realised that she really
looked a sufficient reason for Canio, Tonio
and Silvio being seized with homicidal mania.
The highlight of the evening was reached
when Pedro Mirassou’s Canio proceeded to
tear himself limb from limb in a transport
of jealousy. With regard to his topnotes, it
may be asserted with confidence that if every-
body had a voice like that, the telephone
would not be a necessary invention. The
musical development of the two operas was
directed with great skill by Wando Aldro-
vandi, who knows how to keep a few shots in
his locker for the decisive battles of an even-
ing s campaign of melody. The actors, on
the other hand, showed a. tendency to empty
their magazines at the first sign of an enemy.
On the whole, however, the double bill was
a brilliant achievement, which attracted the
usual crammed assemblage.
H* H*
“The. Patsy,” which had a six months’ run
in Sydney in pre-depression days, reoccupied
the Cri. Saturday. Agnes Doyle played
the title-role and made the mischievous,
sometimes forlorn and sometimes pert little
maiden an appealing person. Miss Doyle has
a winning smile, youthful exuberance, and
the ability to score laughs from the most
commonplace lines. John Wood made an
easy and natural Tony. John Junior, cast
as Billy Caldwell, was not often on the
stage, but brightened the play whenever he
did appear. As Brace, Sadie Bedford dis-
charged an unpleasant task with honors.
John Pernside and Alathea Siddons seemed
determined that the taxi-drivers in Pitt-street
should hear every word they had to say.
George D. Parker was producer.
* * *
Raymond Lambert, a young Belgian pianist
who has made his home in Melbourne, was
heard at Sydney Con. Hall last week, witli
orchestra, in a performance of the Grieg
Concerto, in which he took his part with all
the authority and power of a veteran maestro.
In a recital in the same hall on Saturday
night he further demonstrated the possession
of great technical and interpretative gifts by
his playing of the Tausig transcription of
Bach’s “D Minor Toccata and Fugue.”
In the compositions of Franck, Scriabine
and Debussy the pianist showed taste and
imagination, and he gave a Chopin etude
with fine effect.
* * *
William McKie’s Bach Festival cost the
Melbourne City Council only £3O, despite the
numbers of choristers and instrumentalists
engaged and the immense amount of re-
hearsal. The civic fathers are so delighted
that they have given their organist a free
hand to organise another festival of another
composer or composers.
¥ « «
The Nellie Brantley season has reached its
majority in terms of weeks at Melbourne
Palace. “The Sport of Kings” is drawing
the populace this week and the broad grin on
the face of the box office lias become fixed.
* * *
Jack Russell-continues to provide new ver-
sions of 'himself*every Friday at Melbourne
Tivoli, and the small American mime is
being accepted in the spirit in which he is
meant by large audiences. The Three ’Var-
sity Boys, Molly Byron and the Big Four
are included in the show, which is fast with-
out being too furious.
The Palette.
There is a show at Melb. Fine Arts of
paintings and drawings of the Contemporary
Art Group. The impression given is one of
complete conventionality. Certainly the con-
ventions embraced are different from those
Melbourne art fanciers are accustomed to ; but
they are just as stale and old-fashioned. They
were all the rage in Paris in 1914 and, with
slight modifications, were all the rage in
1920, which was when the present writer
last saw them pullulating on their native
heath, so to speak. Here are your pinch-
beck Cezannes, your second-hand Utrillos,
your tentative Van Goghs and Gauguins and
your budding Matisses. Here are the usual
groggy still-life, the nudes suffering from
pernicious anaemia, the landscapes in which
indifference to tonal relationships masque-
rades as an expression of their authors’
“personality.” The only things lacking are
representative examples of cubism and dado-
ism. Any intelligent child could supply that
want with the aid of a ruler and a pair of
compasses; and anyone who can gum a
matchbox on to a piece of canvas is a
dadoist. The Contemporaries ought to have
at least one cubist and dadoist, for the sake
of appearances.
John D. Moore, who has a show of oils
and water-colors at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, has a penchant for dead trees and
landscapes composed of undulating downs
under heavily clouded skies. Also for pecu-
liar effects of light. He eschews melodrama-
tic tricks and very faithfully paints what,he
sees, frequently getting almost exactly
what he wants ’to express. But he sees a
particularly unbeautiful world and his con-
science forbids him to improve upon it. In
“The Valley, Evening,” in oil, there is an
impression of rest and brooding calm, but it
was never a very pleasant valley to look upon
and the sky is aggressively gloomy. “Study
of a Dead Tree” is the, most effective of the
water-colors —a fine bit of realism —but tlic
tree seems not only dead but damned.
At the Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney, Isabel
Huntley shows oils, water-colors, drawings
and prints. The various floral studies follow
a convention in regard to drawing and. color-
ing that quaintly combines the archaic and
the real—and get a good deal nearer the
real than do the works of most other ex-
ponents of the style. There are some excel-
lent likenesses • among the pencil drawings
and three wood-block prints have vigor and
elan. Almost all the exhibits are good work
of their genre, which seems to have been
designed by its originator to go appropri-
ately with a certain style of furnishing, more
general in the days of our grandparents
than in these.
In a show at Melbourne Athenaeum
Charles Wheeler continues to hold the fort
for academism iu his landscapes and his
meticulous nudes. The lady labelled “Con-
templation” is probably the last word in
icy classicism. It is difficult to imagine any-
body getting more out of this particular for-
mula than Wheeler gets out of it, yet after
contemplating “Contemplation” one longs
for a piece of juicy steak by way of varia-
tion.
In landscapes on exhibition at Collins
House, Melbourne, Aileen Dent show’s a dis-
position to flirt, though not outrageously,
with impressionism. The landscapes are dis-
tinctly more attractive' than the portraits,
whose outstanding characteristic is matter-
of-factness.


Amusements.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
Williamson Imperial Grand Opera Co.
KING’S THEATRE:
MARGARET RAWLINGS in
DR. PYGMALION.
MARCH
Cigars
Craig kAitken
h Wholesale
Distributors
Sidney N SW.
IF
you desire to reach that section of
the N.Z/r public that moulds the buy-
ing habits of the rest;
IF
you have a message for New Zealand-
ers who have more money to spend
on more commodities than the many;
IF
your goal is a market with the maxi-
mum capacity to respond to your
advertising efforts, then cover the
Wellington Province, the highest in
spending power, by using the most
effective medium,
Cite Deminion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone; 85241.
pAMOUS BROKEN HILL has produced
£157,000,000 worth of ;netal (nearly as
much value as from all the coal mines in N. S.
Wales) and almost the whole lot was mined
within the Municipal Boundaries!
Naturally this marvellous place has a news-
paper equally celebrated.
“THE BARRIER MINER”
has been issued two or three times every day
for the past 44 years. What a record for a
mining field!
The people of Broken Hill and the Far West
neither read nor need metropolitan daily news-
papers. That is obvious.
Notice.
TALLOW MANUFACTURERS.
A BOMBAY indenting firm very well con-
nected with nearly twenty textile mills
and almost all leading soap factories in
India urgently desires sole representation
from a leading and reliable maker of tallow
in Australia. Best of references will be
furnished. Please apply No. 243, care
“Sydney Bulletin.”
For Sale
ď
ANTIQUE SHIP MODELS
ALL PERIODS.
Full particulars from
L. S. HOLMES,
475 Dowling St., Moore
Park, Sydney.
fjHe CKarm of the
PACIFIC
INLANDS'
For less than the cost
of a city holiday!
EXCURSION FARES
(NO EXCHANGE )
SUVA, FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days, Ist Class Return, £35
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva, Ist Class Return, £75
Seven-weeks’ Tour .... Cabin „ „ £55
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Twenty-three Days’ Tour, Ist Class Return, £45
Via Wellington, N.Z... Cabin,, „ £34
PAPEETE, TAHITI.
Via Wellington and
Rarotonga .. Ist Class Return, £55
Seven-weeks’ Tour .. Cabin,, ~ £4O
For full ’particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney;
59 William Street, Melbourne.
*
%
m
!,i'i,
-'ATT 1 j
t -' ~ -
w
iw
PurcU'~f£t-0
and Union Lines
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP SOUTH
1 AUSTRALIA.
No. 275 of 1932.
Between PHYLLIS ETHEL HALL Plaintiff
And ROYDEN LESLIE JAMES HALL Defendant.
To ROYDEN LESLIE JAMES HALL.
NOTICE is hereby given to ROYDEN LESLIE
JAMES HALL whose last known address was at
Adelaide in the State of South Australia that a
Writ has been issued in the Supreme Court of
South Australia in an action in which his wife
Phyllis Ethel Hall claims an order for divorce from
her husband on the ground of his desertion for over
five years and in such action his wife intends to
ask for an order for maintenance and for costs, and
if Royden Leslie James Hall desires to be heard in
opposition to the claim for any of such orders lie
must file an appearance in the office of the Master
of the Supreme Court of South Australia within 60
days of the publication of the latest advertisement
directed to he published in this action otherwise
orders may be made against him in his absence.
VILLENEUVE SMITH, KELLY, HAGUE AND
TRAVERS,
Insurance Chambers, Pirie Street, Adelaide,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
1 WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 733 of 1932.
Between THOMAS BLADEN Petitioner
And PETERINA FERGUSON SMELLIE BLADEN
Respondent.
To PETERINA FERGUSON SMELLIE BLADEN
late of Vale Road Bathurst. ■ ■ T , liT ,. r
TAKE NOTICE that the said THOMAS BLADEN
has commenced a suit against you in. this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion J^otICF
without just cause or excuse. AND TAKE NUIIEE
that you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the ninth day of November next
and in the event of your not doing so withm the
time limited or obtaining further time.the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
Petition filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
Dated this twelfth day of August, 19u2.
For the Registrar,
[L.s.] E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
B. B. LANE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
6 Wynyard Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 907 of 1932..
Between MARIE BLANCHE PALMA Petitioner
And RICARDO HONORI PALMA Respondent.
To RICARDO HONORI PALMA formerly ,of Bris-
bane Queensland. ■ ~
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARIE BLANCHE
PALMA has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a. dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse. AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the fifteenth day of November
next and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned solicitor free of charge.
Dated this eighteenth day of August, 1932.
For the Registrar,
(Sgd.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
(Sgd.) CHARLES G. P. CRANE,
Solicitor for the Petitioner,
114 Hunter Street, Sydney. _____
If any illustration in The Buleetin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Svdney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.'
“HANDY HINTS for the FARM”
Every effort has been used to make the book of the greatest value on every kind of farm,
The experienced farmer will know hundreds of the things in it. It is those he doesn t know or has
forgotten that will make it worth pounds to him.
Price, 1/-; by post, 1/2. From the head office of “The Bulletin/’ 252 George Street, Sydney; or from
any branch office: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; James Place,
Adelaide; 33 Barrack Street, Perth; 14 Panama Street, Wellington (N.Z.).
OR FROM ANY NEWSAGENT.
Contains over 1000 practical hints from the Land pages of J^ulCetCei
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Dangerous Years” at Sydney Regent re-
veals insight into juvenile crime; but the
frequent tears and the precocity of the scamp-
hero are trying. Tommy Conlon, aged 13,
lias a flair for breaking the law, though
sound at heart. He is the product of bad
home training, and a judge realises it, and
hands him over to an idealistic young
woman. Her husband, a curmudgeon who
has suffered by the lad’s depredations, jeers.
Sure enough he robs them. But in a good
cause. He is like that; an infant Robin
Hood, always ready to do ill that good may
come of it. He rehabilitates himself in the
end by helping to capture a pair of bandits
who had rifled his surly critic’s store and
getting half-killed in the process. The theo-
ries of the Jesuits, who say that the first
seven years of a child’s life are all-important,
and of the late Sam Smiles, who believed in
self help, get about equal support from this
somewhat muddled story, Spencer Tracy,
Doris Kenyon and Ralph Bellamy are
amongst those present while the 13-year-old
brand is plucking himself from the burning.
“Million Dollar Legs,” the Regent’s second
one, has nothing to do with the shapely
limbs of a girl, as an advt. implies. The
reference is to the hairy shanks of an Olym-
pic sprinter: the middle-aged Ma jordomo
of Klopstokia, a mythical Republic which
sends a team to Los Angeles at the insti-
gation of Jack Oakie, an American tooth-
brush salesman. So now you know what
kind of picture it is. It contains a Presi-
dent, who behaves like a wharf-laborer on
the spree, a number of comic spies, one of
whom is cross-eyed Beu Turpin, a beautiful
girl (the President’s daughter) whom Oakie
loves, and a bankrupt Treasury. The idea
is that Oakie’s boss, a millionaire, will liqui-
date Klopstokia’s debt if its team does well
at the Games, and of course it does. A
malicious skit on Greta Garbo is rather out
of the irresponsible picture. The cast is
strengthened, or whatever one might call it,
by a number of comedians who used to star
in Mack Sennett’s Keystone comedies, and
there is some clever fake photography.
* * *
“By Whose Hand,” the first film at Syd-
ney State, is a railway thriller. An escaped
murderer is in a coffin in the luggage-van,
shepherded by his wife. A crook with a
diamond bracelet, a dope-peddler (female),
who wants it. and a handcuffed gangster
held by a bone-headed, loud-voiced de-
tective are among the more sinister charac-
ters whom the express whirls through the
night Some comic niggers, a honeymoon
couple, Ben Lyon (reporter) and Barbara
Weeks (ingenue) are the redeeming features,
morally speaking. Murder stalks, or rather
staggers—for the train oscillates like a
Sydney tram —no fewer than five times, the
topscorer as regards assassinations being the
alleged corpse. He does, his jobs with a
dinner-knife, which his wife leaves for him
in the horness of her darg, which is tied to
the cahffin. After a fight on the roof of
the train Lyon nabs him and marries Miss
Weeks. There are plenty of laughs, and the
cast is astonishingly good considering the
frankly low-brow nature of the entertainment.
“New Morals for Old,” a Hollywooden
version of Van Druten s “After All,
follows. It has the charm of familiarity
anyhow. Lewis Stone and his wife are
churchgoers, their children whoopee-manu-
facturers. The son wants to study art in
Pairuss; the daughter favors life in an
aportment with a married man. Paw has a
stroke, induced by a broken heart, after
painful scenes with his offspring on the sub-
ject of their conduct; and they proceed to
dree their respective weirds after his death
regardless of the lamentations of their
mother. The three are happily re-united
“several months later,” to quote, the pro-
ducer’s favorite caption. This is one. of
those pictures in which inter-family mauling,
stroking, patting and kissing are rife. Bobert
Young, as the son, does melancholy work with
his hat; now putting it on back to front, now
sideways, now on liis mothers head. Mar-
garet Perry has a coiffure like a peroxided
bird’s-nest, but she emotes efficiently, and in
wayward-daughter roles the capacity to weep
is 'half the battle. Laura H’ope Crewes is
the wistful mother, who refuses soup w r hen
her eye falls on the three empty chairs in the
dining-room of the old home.
¥ #
Marian Marsh is a sound actress. That
makes it all the more depressing to watch
her in “Under Eighteen” at Sydney Hay-
market. She gives up her dream of wedding
Regis Toomey, truck-driver, because of the
mess her nagging sister Anita Page seems
to have made of things. Anita has an un-
worthy husband, and money is needed to
divorce him. So Marian nobly offers herself
to the rich man in his pent-house. Her inno-
cence saves her, of course; but she gets the
money—only to learn that Anita doesn’t
want the divorce. Awful!
The other, “Cock of the Air,” is a tedious
love duel between Chester Morris and Billie
Dove. He is a U.S.A. War-birdman with the
morals of a U.S.A. rooster. She is a French
actress wlio teaches him that ladies are
not necessarily his for the kissing—or, any-
how, not immediately. Comic relief by
Matt Moore. No moral.
“Playback”: Will Rogers, of film and
journalistic fame, came to Australia in 1903.
He was then a groom with a rope act in
Tex McLeod’s troupe of cowboys. He subse-
quently joined Wirths’ Circus and toured
a great deal of Australasia.
“C. 8.”: Efftee Films’ next effort will be
“Harmony Row,” written by that versatile
genius George Wallace, who was responsible
for the just-completed “His Royal Highness,”
the first screen musical comedy filmed in
Australia. “Harmony Row” is a comedy of
mean streets and will introduce Willie Kerr,
the Albury infant whom Thripg expects to
develop into the .Jackie Coogan of the Com-
monwealth.
“Playback”: In “Arsene Lupin,” fea-
turing for the first time together John and
Lionel Barrymore, John (Arsene) steals
the Mona Lisa painting and wraps it
round his umbrella. A very clever fel-
low to be able to take an umbrella into
an art gallery and cleverer still to be able
to fold up Mona, who is painted on wood.
Doesn’t Hollywood know anything?


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
rvr onobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
THE EXAMINER,
LAUNCESTON.
NOW
IN ITS
91st YEAR.
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier ,f and “Saturday
Evening Express’’ obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, alsb representation
through *he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and (he World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. ~ ~ ~ 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. .. ~ ” ” ” 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 “ £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ABORIGINALITIES
NOT THAT SORT OF MAN AT ALL.
MAGOSTRATE: “Where were you the afternoon of the brutal
crime?”
PRISONER: “Why, I was at a matinee performance of the panto-
mime, yer Worship.”
“V. Mac”: Loboi is para-
mount chief of our little back-
wash in the Solomons, both by
conquest and Government ap-
pointment. The appointment
was made with a bad grace,
but as Loboi had cleaned
up all other aspirants Govern-
ment had to endorse him. One
of his early rulings was to the
effect that all future courting
was to be done under his per-
sonal . supervision. For this
purpose he established a sort of
open-air court every evening,
and the young of both sexes
were expected to make their
advances or take the knock
there. A howl went up to high
Heaven, and much to Loboi’s
disgust the married women
made the most noise. The
Commissioner paid one of his
periodical visits about this
time, and the women of Loboi’s
village mobbed him. When the
position was explained ho pro-
mised to go into the matter at
the seat of the trouble. As the
vice-regal launch drifted into
the anchorage the Commissioner
gazed with astonishment at the
deputation drawn up to wel-
come him. The beach was liter-
ally black with women, who on
such occasions are rarely to be
seen; the few men visible were
well to the rear. Three ladies,
two married and one single, put
the case before hi.s Ex., and
taking advantage of his obvious
embarrassment asked for nearly
everything under the sun. The
Commissioner was fairly new
to the job, and appeared to
agree_ with most of the requests
submitted to him. Anyway he
over-ruled Loboi’s edict, and
gave the villagers permission to
conduct affairs of the hcar r
when and where they liked.
One result is a series of mys
terious accidents to women,
mostly married women, which
have kept the medical office:
occupied and depleted his stocks
of iodine and bandages to' an
alarming extent. The climax
was reached at the hearing of
a complicated land-sale dis-
pute. The proceedings were
rudely interrupted by the arri-
val of a dishevelled and almost
exhausted female a short head
in advance of her husband;
the latter was brandishing
an axe and behaving in all respects like a
lunatic with homicidal tendencies. A wor-
ried magistrate is left wondering why Com-
missioners will interfere in matters of a
purely domestic nature.
A •!- • j.
“Island Pine”:
When I was living'
on a Papuan cocoa-
nut plantation one
of the camp cooks,
in the bush for
water, met the spirit
of a recently deceas-
ed brother. This
spirit condemned
him to die at the
rising of the moon
that day week, smote
him on the chin and
vanished. The boy
returned to camp,
.set down his bucket
of water and thence-
forward refused
duty, sitting in a.
sort of trance, speak-
ing to no one, not
even to his particu-
lar friend. Day by
day he faded away,
his body wasting,
his skin losing its
bloom, his heart and
pulse beating slower
and weakening. A
houseboy told us the
story, and assured
us that not even we
all - powerful white
men could arrest
Lagani’s fate; but
we decided to have
a buck at counter-
acting pourri-pourri.
We removed the boy
to a hut in our own
garden, away from
the doubtful com-
fort of his fellows,
set his friend to
watch beside him,
and fed him three
times a day with
food from our own
table; —an incentive
to live that would
have encouraged a
DETACHED.
FIRST CADDY: “Cripes, y’orter seen old Foozleum's golf to-day. Talk about hit ! He’s
over at the 18 th now with all the heads around him.”
SECOND CADDY: “What—of the club?”
FIRST CADDY: “No, of his iron clubs!”
native under ordinary conditions to rival
the years of Methuselah. He ate everything
that was given him, but with n 0 sign of
gratification or profit to his wasting form,
and night and day stared steadily before
him. As the full moon rose behind the
ranges on the appointed night, Lagani’s
spirit would automatically quit his body—no-
thmg was surer—unless something was done,
We did it. At about five o’clock in the after-
noon we mixed a staggering amount of
whisky with a beaten egg and milk, stood
oyer Lagam while he drank it, and watched
him fall mto a drunken stupor which lasted
hour after hour through the night When
he woke at last a new day had dawned,
? n a his friend told Lagam that spirit brother
had retired to the shades, defeated. Lagam
wtfSS
ally convinced, and then a faint sm le flitted
over his countenance. He spoke for the first
foi L C !>, yS ’ within t fpw° 11 n'ovl ni bp
s & W ayS be WaS
completely *
T , . , . „ ,
Exile : Judging by a par. in a Sydney
paper they haven t forgotten . how to brew
cham lightning in N.Q. The item say a that
two local citizens on their way out of Her-
berton encountered a “strange monster.”
The animal attacked them and, after laying
out two dogs, required six revolver bullets
before taking the count. It was two feet
high, “with a face like a bulldog, the shape
of a wallaby, and the feet of a child.” Also
its tail was so long that it is now being
used as a stockwhip by one of its slayers,
If the folk telling the story had been going
into Herberton I should judge the appa-
rition was a tree-climbing kangaroo. Since
they were coming out, it is hard to s.ay
what it was. I had a strange experience
of the sort once when leaving Blackall in
Central Q. after show- and race-week. On
the Douglas Ponds road I was attacked by
an enormous puce goanna, which rushed up
my horse’s hind legs, tore the clothes off
me, and decamped with two bottles of rum
which were hung by a string over old
Nimblefoot’s withers. At least that is my
recollection of it. The party that came out
and rescued me after the horse had gone
back to Blackall said that I had taken all
my clothes off and hung them on a myall
tree under which I went to sleep, leaving
a written injunction to be called in time
for the Government House levee in *Bris-
bane, 600 miles south. As for the rum,
they swore they never saw it, but I am con-
fident to this day that the cows drank it
before waking me.
* *' * *
<‘ Ka yeff”; The Maori method of crossing
a swi f t . running stream , as described by
<‘ Tano „ (B 3/8/’32), seems to be a matter
of wa ] king on water—incredible to me. In
an old German fieldbook I came across illus-
trations of another method. The troops were
j- 0 marck i n t o t ke wa ter, leaning
slightly forward, with both arms extended
to the side, and just to keep on marching,
movement of the feet being the only pro-
pelling power. The theory was that if the
lungs were kept inflated the swimmer would
only >su b merge to chin level. I don’t know
how it worked out in practice, hut the illus-
trations showed the footsloggers doing the
stunt while wearing their rifles and equip-
ment.
* * * *
“Gumblegubbin”: When the N.S.W. New
State movement had one of its active
spasms just before the war, it was seriously
proposed to call the northern section New
North Yorkshire. The name now suggested
by the committees—New England, borrowed
from pre-revolutionary Yankeeland—is not
much better than ' New South' Wales.
i suppose if and when the northern
part hives off, its native-born therein will
be New Englishmen. Isn’t it time we
thought of something more euphonious and
original? Consider the names of the Ameri-
can States—only three even of the “original
States” have “New” in them—-and the songs
they have inspired, and then run over some
of the uninspiring names we’ve got—-AVest-
ern Australia, South Australia. North Aus-
tralia, Central Australia, New South AACales.
Queensland and Victoria aren’t so bad. and
Tasmania would pass muster if it didn’t
suggest a new sort of insanity.
RHAPSODY IN A RATTLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Iron Neddy glides along the gleaming
silver, track;
The moon rides high above the spooling
smoke;
The scenery’s enchanting, and you lie upon
your back
And dodge the red-hot cinders and the
coke.
If your mind inclines to music there’s a song
in every rattle
Of the truck—your soul aesthetic finds a
pome
In the fragrant Wind which, wafted through
the trucks of pigs and cattle,
Brings an atmosphere that’s redolent of
home.
There is something elevating in the way the
cold wind blows in
Through a truck-floor freely lined with
chasm and crack.
’Tis exalting, nay uplifting, when with icy
hand and frozen
It fairly lifts the shirt up round your
back.
The township lights, like jewels, shine
resplendently ahead,
And as they pass they tenderly remind you
Of folks asleep, and other days when you,
too, had a bed,
Of bills and girls and blokes you left
behind you.
As you slide into the station there’s a
disconcerting sight,
Though the mate you left has given you
forewarning—
A policeman, bent on getting you a lodging
for the night,
And a week, without the option, in the
morning.
Deftly you alight and dodge him. Then your
perch again you hit,
With your heart (and teeth) a-singing in
the breeze;
The future’s full of promise, and your hair
is full of grit,
And the truck you patronise is full of
fleas.
QUEENSLAND.
HUGH GREENFIELD.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE : 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Plum Razor Guard
d
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and iiu. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/- each, post free.
Sfce PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12 /f. eac k*
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case—
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—fin. and fin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
- ■
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY"
FOR AUGUST,
NOW ON SALE.
Millions of pounds have been
invested in forestry.
What returns are bondholders likely
to get?
Ottawa and the Market.
Should nrices be raised to
1928 levels?
These and many other questions of
vital interest to investors are dis-
cussed in the August issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
“O. W. Waireki”: Hori informed me that
he had picked up a great bargain from a city
department-store counter —a long-wanted
hot-water bottle. Next morning, haying
heard an unusual commotion from the natives’
whare during the night, I inquired if the
new bottle had helped him to rest. “I
chuck te prute away,” he answered, savagely.
“He made wrong side out. Five times I fill
him to prove it.” Being curious, I went out
to inspect. On the concrete lay a badly-
battered thermos flask.
* * * *
“Greenhide”: Billy Emmerson, who died
recently in Mackay at 76, was a famous
identity of the thirsty North. A full-
blooded abo., he made a name for him-
self in his earlier days as one of the finest
TWENTY-TWO-AND-A-HALF PER CENT.
WARDER: “There’s talk of us getting our wages reduced.”
PRISONER: “Any charnce of it spreadin' to out sentences ?”
horsemen on the N.Q. cattle stations —no
small distinction then. In due course he
was roped in for Lance Skuthorpe’s buck-
jumping show and with it travelled all oyer
Australia. Tiring of the heavy show work
he devoted his declining days to breaking-in
horses and other station duties in the Mac-
kay country. Dwellers in the effete South
may remember him as the darky with Sku-
thorpe’s show who used to crack four stock-
whips at once. This he did lying on his
back with a whip in each hand and one
tied to each foot. Like most of his kind he
was a splendid all-round athlete.
* * * *
“Tauka”: An enterprise that doesn’t go
hunting for business in Papua is fire insur-
ancc. It is a country where
most of the buildings—save for
occasional examples of. Govern-
ment, trader and missionary
architecture of the wood-iron
type—are of split bamboo, per-
haps roofed with grass or palm-
leaf, all as inflammable as gun-
powder. Yet it is noteworthy
that, though most of the tribes
from the Gira River round ,to
the Fly keep fires smouldering
in these tinder-boxes day and
night, a conflagration rarely
occurs. An exception took
place the other clay at Taitana,
a village near Fort Moresby,
where 26 houses became a total
loss, with all the stored native
food and personal effects in-
cluded. The 77 adults of the
population and their 79 nippers
are not worrying. The Govern-
ment will feed and house them
until the village is rebuilt. Aus-
tralia’s dole addicts have no-
thing on the simple savage of
Papua when it comes to
scrounging on the taxpayer.
“Herpes”: One of the biggest
sea-snakes yet collected lias
found a permanent homo in
Brisbane Museum. Captured
on Morey reef, off Port Doug-
las, in far N.Q., the snake is
over 6ft. long with a body of
extraordinary thickness for its
length—close on two feet in
circumference. The specimen
is one of the rarest of the pela-
gic snakes, and, like them all,
is highly venomous. Originally
described by Captain Stokes, of
the Beagle, during that ship’s
famous voyages of 1837-43, it
was named Astrotia stokesii.
Though North' Queensland waters are full
of sea snakes, this is the first specimen of
the species mentioned known to have been
preserved in an Australian museum. Its
range extends from the waters of tropical
Australia to the China and Indian seas.
* * * *
“Murrungurry”: On N.S.W. main roads
these days one hears only an echo here and
there of the team
bells that used to
clamor all night at
the regular camping
places and around
every town and ham-
let. In the bullock
days the veteran of
the long whip had a
fine discriminating
ear for bell notes.
He purchased the
jinglers with great
care, choosing those
with a clear, dis-
tinct and far-reach-
ing sound. He was
always looking for
bells, and if he saw
a collection in a
store he couldn’t re-
sist trying their
tones. When he
found one that had
a good and original
ring he was as de-
lighted as a violinist
who has discovered a
veritable Strad. in
an oddment shop.
Bullocky didn’t put
the bells on his
quadrupeds indiscri-
minately ; each bul-
lock had its own
bell, so that Straw-
berry could be dis-
tinguished from
Rattler by the jingle
of his jewellery.
Cattle - bells were
mostly deep-toned,
running the gamut
of the bass notes,
whereas horse-bells
were treble. I have
seen £5 given for a
bell that had cost
about five bob at
the store. The most interested person in
bell sounds was the bullocky who’d had his
most-prized jingler stolen. Wherever he
went he was always listening for the miss-
ing note.
* * * *
“Lucerne Flea”: The other day I saw my
old tomcat crouching behind a bush and
watching the rabbits on a warren. Expect-
ing to see an exhibition of stalking, I stopped
to watch. But after a time Tom walked
out quite openly from behind the bush and
BEAT ’EM FOR HALF.
COP: “Now, then, what are yer hangin' round these
parked cars for?”
DAD: “’Sail right. Dave give the feller at the corner a coupler bob to let us into the
motor show half price.”
began to play like a kitten with a loose tuft
of grass. Over and over he rolled, the rab-
bits watching with great interest, and when
the cat was right in amongst them they did
not move, except to turn their heads to
watch. He came close to a young doe, sud-
denly left off playing with the grass, grabbed
her by the neck, killed her with a single
bite before she could squeal, and departed,
continuing his kittenish game with her still
twitching body. When he was a safe dis-
tance away he got a good grip of the body
and dragged it off in businesslike fashion,
giving me a sidelong glance as much as to
say, “Look at the silly cows —still sitting
there as if nothing had happened.” I’ve
seen foxes adopt this method of hunting with
teal and rabbits, with invariable success, but
it was novel to see a cat using it.
* * * *
“Amity”: A somewhat unusual fishing
experience fell to the lot of some profes-
sionals who were netting for dugong—which,
it is needless to say, are not fish —in the
South Passage to More ton Bay (Q.). They
captured a 10ft. dugong cow and while in the
net the lady increased the local dugong popu-
lation by one calf, 3ft. in length and weigh-
ing 601 b., mamma subsequently tipping the
scales at 12cwt. Sentiment might have
suggested the release of the lady arid her
offspring. But sentiment boils no pars-
nips. and mother and child were sent to
market. The mother’s hide alone required
five men to lift it from the launch to the
landing stage at the storage depot.
* * * *
“T.F.”: The parapara-tree of Maoriland
(Pisonia brunonianan) is addicted to bird-
catching. One, in a New Plymouth garden,
has caught hundreds of small birds, its most
recent capture being a mopoke, evidently
attracted by the sight of a number of dead
birds hanging on the branches. The seeds
of the tree, about an inch and a half
long, and grown in clusters of 15 to 20, are
covered with a heavy gum. Contact with
this may cause a bird to be held fast,
but even if it escapes it is bound to carry
away some of the seed-pods, the joints of
which are very brittle. As the bird struggles
the pods stretch and jets of gum are exuded
over its wings. The gum soon renders
the wings useless and the bird eventu-
ally dies. Its decomposed body forms the
soil in which the seed germinates.
* * * *
“Mary McCommonwealth”: In the early
days it was always easy to tell whether a
tree had been climbed by an abo. or a white
man, as each made notches in a different
way. The white man made the cut horizon-
tal' so that he could set in all or most of
his toes, being a boot-wearer. The abo.
made a perpendicular cut, and made it
narrow, so that it gripped the big toe and
held it as a loop might. The perpendicular
cut had the advantage that it could be made
more easily and with a longer arm-reach
than a horizontal one, and it injured the
tree less. Binghi had a sound reason tor
everything he did.
* * * *
“Bert”: Big timber, is it? In a S.A.
farmhouse kitchen stands a table whose top
is a single solid slab of redgum, measuring
10ft. long, 6ft. wide and 1-Jin. thick. Not
a crack, knot, blemish or flaw mars it; age
has given it a deep color and a sheen like
that. "of San Domingo mahogany. It was
cut near Dyndoch nearly 40 years ago with
a whip-saw.
“Ex-Loco”: Mention of long timber re-
minds me of a little lot we had on our train
from Korumburra (Vie.) to Melbourne in
1895. Four bluegum sticks, each 95ft. long,
were loaded on to six flat-bottomed four-
wheel “K” trucks. They had to be lashed
so that they could not roll off, but yet were
loose enough to enable the train to swing
around the curves —a difficult job, as the
curves on the “Great Southern” line, as it
was then, were many and abrupt. The
spars were poppet legs for a goldmine at
Bendigo, and probably are still in use.
Gippsland bluegum is good stuff.
“Bumpkin”: The ignorance of the average
Melburnian concerning his native fauna is
abysmal. Recently a suburb was scared out
of its wits by a rumor that a strange grey
animal which sat up and growled was abroad
in the land, and old ladies proceeded to look
more than twice under the bed before
switching off the light. The mysterious
beast was finally treed and shot by a couple
of local huntsmen. When director W ilkie,
of the Zoo, examined all that was 'left of
it —the claws —he identified them as having
belonged to a native bear.
SUNSET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m not the man I used to be, I’m getting
old and slow;
It won’t be very long before my time is up,
I know.
There’s not too many of us left; the years
have taken fee
Of those that came into the hills and settled
here with me.
We slashed the scrub and rung the trees —
tall trees were everywhere;
We cut and hewed and dragged and fired
until the hills were bare.
And in the ashes and the mould, where scrub
and fern had been.
We threw the seed, and presently watched
cocksfoot growing green.
We sweltered cutting scrub and fern, we
shivered in the rain,
Saw bushfires sweep the hillside bare, and
built it all again.
I’ve seen the country brown and dry, I’ve
seen the creek in flood;
I’ve seen the cattle starve and die, seen
snow and sleet and mud;
I’ve seen it all these forty years, and now
I’m old and slow,
And haven’t very much to leave behind me
when I go.
They’ll soon forget me when I’m gone, there’s
plenty more like me;
I out no figure in the world, and that’s as
it should be.
But grass is waving in the wind where musk
and dogwood grew,
And oats are bright with harvest white,
where gum and blackbutt blew.
The night’s long shadows grow apace. I face
the sinking sun,
And weary, fearful, still take heart. I did
get something done.
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
(Opp. Railway Station ),
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms :: 200 Baths
{ i«
P ' ;f
*3
f 1
13
\ i*
II
,i i i-.
i 3 ij
H
I
Melbourne’s Mast Modern Hotel.
Rates per day:
Room and meals from
Room and Breakfast from ..........
22/6
12/6
TO-DAY
To-day is the to-morrow you were thinking of yesterday.
There is hardly anything that the average person procrastinates
about quite so much as money-saving, despite that the same average
person has a comparatively small income, knows that he must spend
carefully and save wisely, and knows, too, the best way to do it.
Have you done, to-day, what you yesterday put off until to?
morrow?
You can open a Savings Bank Account anywhere, because the
Commonwealth Savings Bank is represented in every district in Aus-
tralia, and with any amount, from one shilling upwards.
It is so easy—you have only to register your signature and deposit
your shilling (or more) and you will have started on your saving
campaign—to-day.
idbrnioiiwealtl) Saving lank of Rustralia
(.Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
ďf
The
“BONSER”
STOCKWHIP
A beautifully-balanced Stockwhip, made
of hand-plaited Kangaroo hide, eignt
strand with an eight feet
thong. The handle is steel-lined.
Price
21/-
Send Your Order to Desk S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE;
And at I.ongreach, Toowoomba and Townsville^
SMOKE-OH!
“Startling Price —5 to 4 Rosendo.”— “Sun.”
We can’t see anything startling about 5
to 4.
* *
Australia’s Roads Boards seem to favor
the morass-production methods.
¥ *
TIIE “IN MEMORIAM” BUSINESS.
When the anniversary of my Aunt Bith's
tragic death drew near—she was Mrs.
Bithiah Rimspanker. I might mention —a
sad-faced man called.
“Yore Uncle Cornelius said you might buy
one- of my poems of sadness,” he explained.
“It shows respeck, an’ they’re on’y two bob
a time.”
I examined his sprays of cypress, but I
could see nothing that would fit Aunt Bith.
“How about this?” he asked.
To-day brings back memories,
Memories that make us cry,
To think that you were taken away, dear Auntie,
And never got the chance to say good-bye.
“It doesn’t sound gripping enough,” I
objected.
“Weil, have a screw at this,” he said. “A
snifter” :
Not a voice disturbs his (or her) slumber,
Not a care to mark his (or her) brow;
All his (or her) pains and sufferings are happily
ended,
He (or she) is sleeping sweetly now.
“No.” I said decisively, “it’s too abstract.
Resides which it lacks detail.”
“Is your mother very strict?”
“Strict! Why, she won’t let the cat out at night.”
“I’ll tell you what,” said the sad-faced
man, “I’ll do you a special. Mind yer, she’ll
come a bit expensive. Say ’arf a quid. How
did the good lady blow?”
“She was run down by a motor-truck.”
“Goodo,” and he collected his samples.
“You leave it to me, Dig.”
Next day he called with a something-
attempted-sohiething-done light in his eye,
and handed mo a shoot of paper. “It’s a
blitherer!” he said modestly.
Mrs. Bithiah Rimspanker was killed by a lorry,
Her husband and friends were both shocked and
sorry,
Bithiah has gone, it’s a terrible pity,
She was highly respected in the city.
After all Aunt Bith will have to be satis-
fied with “Fond memory clings.”
Norbell.
y <£
ARE YOU A FAILURE?
Do You Contemplate Bankruptcy f
Then Copsult Us!
To moot the pressing needs of 11)32, Go-
gettem Business Schools, Ltd., in pursuance
of their policy of enterprise
and service, announce the
formation of a special class
for prospective insolvents.
Learn how to wangle your
certificate of discharge!
Take up this invaluable
course immediately, the cur-
riculum of which includes
memory - losing, preparing
cooked statements of affairs,
registrar-diddling, model
non-committal answers for
the official assignee, defi-
ciency account explanations,
etc., etc.
Have you ever realised.
Mr. Business Man, the won-
derful possibilities in get-
ting members of your own
family and relatives on the
list of unsecured creditors?
Do you thoroughly appre-
ciate the value of a wife
before assigning? If not
consult our experts.
Whether you are in busi-
ness or sliding to a finan-
cial crash any other way;
whether you are a politician,
an alderman or a person of
intelligence; whether you
are a tyro in insolvency mat-
ters or a hardened habitue
of the Supreme Court; you
can still learn a lot about
how to go broke successfully.
So enrol now! Enrol
now !! Enrol now!!!
S. W. K.
And remember, you couples who get mar-
ried in the air, that you take the risk of
the aeroplane crashing as well.
* *
IN DEFENCE OF SPIRITUAL UPLIFT.
Enough of these unworthy sneers at our
worthy organs of press reform! What would
readers, such as myself, do
without them? You may
have noticed a recent article
headed :
BABY CUT TO PIECES
Ghastly Discovery in
Cellar.
The lurid medical details; the
references to the parents’
seeming grief; the sugges-
tion that the mother did it
(“Why Do Some Mothers
Hate Their Offspring?”), the
alternative suggestion that the
father did it (“The Luckless
Child Is Said to Have Been
Heavily Insured”) —all were
aimed at me. What if most
of the information was in-
vented in the office? Look at
'the moral good it does me;
and that, of course, is what
our great papers have most at
heart.
When a hanging is due it
elevates me more than I can
say to accompany the doomed
man to the gallows, meta-
phorically speaking, and peer
into his face to the last. “The
murderer paced his cell fever-
ishly during the closing
hours” ; “The grim slayer seem-
ed on the verge of a break-
down” ; “At this stage the im-
placable killer showed signs of
weakening”—all such news is
published for my benefit.
The same with exposures,
accurate or otherwise. They
refresh me like a visit to
some groat cathedral. I rise from a study
of the alleged infamies of some luckless ob-
scurity seething with indignation—also with
self-satisfaction, inasmuch as no virtuous
editor has been impelled by a sense of duty
to the public to expose me.
Who am I? you ask. You surprise me. I
thought I had made my identity clear. I
am the celebrated Aussie Mug, whose illi-
teracy and credulity make it possible for
our stunt press to survive.
* *
“Mr, Lang appears to be playing hide and seek.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
A bit of a change from the hide and cheek
that distinguished him.
* *
“The selection committee of the English XI have
been rabid Freetraders in their eagerness to over-
throw the Australians.” — “Sun.”
The Australians mean to counter by being
ardent Protectionists in their eagerness to
uphold their wickets.
WHAT THE GREAT ARE SAYING—
AND THINKING.
Labor Politician : “Australia's standard of
living must be maintained at all costs.” (“If
my pay goes below a tenner a week I’ll have
to chuck pony-racing.”)
Nationalist M.P.: “We’re doing all in
our power to allay this awful evil of unem-
ployment.” (“What’ll I say if something
“’Ow dost manage to kape the soles on your boots,
boay? The old mine-water do, eat the nails out
av mine.”
“Why, easy, maate; I do nail mine on with copper tin-
tacks."
doesn’t turn up from Ottawa or some-
where ?”)
Trade Union Sec.: “Both theßillstickers’
Union and the Racebook Sellers’ Amalga-
mated Federation are seething with discon-
tent.” (“How long before these mug union-
ists take a tumble?”)
McShortodds : “I lost on the meeting.”
(“Will it run to a Rolls?”)
Sydney Barrister : “I’ve been up to my
neck in it lately helping to clean up some of
the awful mess which the Lang Government
left as a legacy.” (“Good ole Jack!”)
J. P.
* *
“There is now peace in the East.”
The East has to have, these peaces now
and again to keep the population down.
“There is great danger in dieting to reduce the
figure.” —Sydney medico.
In other words, better go fat than phut.
* *
“I« one day’s news there were reports of three
assaults upon policemen in Chippendale, Kedfern
and Surry Hills.”
Things are so bad in these districts that
they can’t spare a copper.
“Where shall we look for the mane of the hour?”
— “Age.”
What about the mane of Prime Minister
Lyons?—that is. assuming he hasn’t had a
haircut since we last saw him.
* #
SEXAGENARIAN.
Recollections of a Society Belle,
Not to be outdone by the “S. M. Herald”
and its hale and hearty but infernally dull
centenarians, we interviewed Mrs. Reggie
Languish. Born in 1860, and still recog-
nised in the society columns as Australia’s
most beautiful woman, Mrs. L. first got
publicity as a belle in the now’-defunct
“‘Rose Bay Banner” (5/7/'SS). “There'
were no such things as press girls then,”!
she told our representative, “and a cocktail,!
much less a cup of tea, didn’t get a pub-:
licity-cliaser anywhere. My first boost set:
me back the price of a quart bottle of 0.1’.!
rum, and I had to kiss the editor of the rag.
into the bargain.”
Mrs. Reggie, who can recall going for;
bush picnics on the present site of Dr.
Oodle’s Private Mental Home, has vivid re-
collections of Mons. Alphonse who dyed the;
locks of all the best people in the opening]
years of the century. He peroxided her for!
the first time in ’O2, but she got caught next
day in the disastrous storm at Randwick,
during which a bookmaker’s cabhorse was,
struck dead by lightning, and the color ran.;
“Hairdressers weren’t so clever then as they,
are now,” she sighed, and disclosed that her
present shading—a glorious “Ann Harding
Ash” —hasn’t been renewed for a fortnight.
Adverting to face-lifting, she well remem-
bers when it was first tried on her. She
suffered the all-too-common fate of the
pioneer, and had to go into retirement for
several months. A bungling practitioner
lifted most of her .scalp, also part of her
left ear, as well as her face, and the inhabi-
tants of Jibba-Jibbji (N.T.) could hardly
believe the local editor when he wrote that
the new arrival at Mick Murphy’s pub was
Sydney’s loveliest girl. However, all’s well
that ends well. It was at Jibba-Jihba that
the celebrated beauty first heard of goanna-
glands, which, she vows, are in all respects
superior to monkey-glands, and which she
has taken night and morning for years.
Mrs. Languish still has her first bustle;
and, wrapped away beneath a sprig of
poison-ivy (“for remembrance”), the serge
bl-m-rs she was wearing at the Government
House bicycling-party, at which Reggie was
mug enough to propose. She keeps just as
good health as any centenarian, except
after late nights; and can, and does, leave
off her spectacles and most of her clothes
with the youngest of ’em at binges.
H. S.
* *
“The modern doctor makes his medicine as plea-
sant as possible.” —“Medical Journal.”
But his account remains a bitter pill.
V *
“Even missionaries have been known to deteriorate
morally in the islands.”
In fact, many have gone to pot altogether.
■¥ *
“It is suggested that politicians be paid according
to the value of work done.”
But how many are wealthy enough to be
able to dodge starvation on such terms?
* *
Some covet the earth or the sky or a star,
Forgetting the blessings they’ve got;
Some people see pleasure wherever they are,
And others wherever they’re not.
P. O. M. 0,
*
“The fruit machines never gave the public a
fair deal. What the public got usually was a lemon.”
And what the Commission is getting out of
them is the very juice.
* *
“The nudists have hardly got into their stride.”
In other words, they’re still in their
strides. »
“This is the third lime you’ve turned up
late this week.”
“Cripes, is it? I thought this was Thurs-
day.”
“The speaker said Sydney should work for a
‘Holly’ Christmas. The maintenance of old Knglisn
customs would help to keep Australia British.
Hot fires, hot chestnuts and hot duff —
What utter folly!
I think a Christmas good enough
That's alco-holly. p
SPRING SONG.
“Man, middle age, wishes to meet lonely working
Girl, short and stout, view matrimony.”— “Age.”
Don’t take up my time with slim marma-
lade misses,
All cuddle and kisses,
Who giggle and pout!
The amorous maid ivlio’s seductive but
slender
1 11 gladly surrender
For one short and stout.
A sylph may be soulful, but if she is skinny
I’ll bet you a guinea
She soon gets knocked out.
The wife of my dreams that I’m writing this
song for,
The one that I long for,
Is stumpy and stout.
So, nuggetty maidens of brawn and solidity,
Brains or stupidity,
Don’t linger about,
dust find me a girl under fire feet and tubby.
And I’ll be her hubby.
Don’t forget, short and stout.
N. C.
FITTING THE CRIME.
“He was brought, handcuffed, to the station, and
charged with stealing four gold armlets.”
Bangles to him made strong appeals;
So when they dropped upon him,
The man who laid him by the. heels
Fastened the bracelets on him.
P.


■fj. '
'•S-.
: 'JI«
m >1
II
WA
mm
M
Omi
HARDY’S
TINTARA WINES
The Champion Reserve (Gold
Label) qualities, in particular, pos-
sess that perfect balance for which
a connoisseur always seeks.
Extracted from the rich grapes grown
on the chosen vineyards of South
Australia, they are “crisp” (not-
withstanding their great age),
rich in flavor and have an
exquisite bouquet.
That Hardy’s place wines of
such high quality before the
public at such very moderate
prices sets their competitors
furiously to think.
Obtainable front all hotels and, licensed
stores specialising in the : distribution
of the higher grades of 'wines. f
HARDY’S WINES OF TINTARA
- Sv
■ -
u *
n
n
1..
w.
V
m
m 8*
P
£3
MBS
&
IP
v
M#-
as
a
Made from the
whole, rich, sun-
ripened wheat
grain.
They are a per-
fect health food,
extremely easy
to digest. When
eaten for break-
fast they give
you a light, ener-
getic feeling in
the busy morn-
ing hours. TRY
THEM, with
Butter, Cheese,
Jam or Honey.
Manufactured
by
William
Arnott
Limited,
The Biscuit
Specialists
of sixty-fbur
years’
experience.
AWOTTS
FAMOUS
aVHEKHID
BISCUITS
Made in
Australia,
Financed by
Australians,
and produced
by highly
trained
Australian
workers.
EVERY GROCER KEEPS THEM
« '
■
X
? as#
I
SSS&
wmmm
IlillS
ssasssss
vXv'
c
s<WS
mi
O
Model "201” is not suit-
able for long distance
reception. Models
for country use from
£26/10/- (Electric) and
£3l/10/- (Battery)
Model "201” Mantel,
3 Valves, including rectifier
£l4/14/-
Model "201” Console s
3 Valves, including rectifier
£l5/15/-
You can now buy a "Golden Voiced"
Healing radio for £l4/14/-
Healing quality radio has never been
priced so low before. The great demand
for Healing sets has brought about
economies in production, which make
these reductions possible.
The model "201” incorporates the same
high quality materials, the same ad-
vanced design, the same craftsmanship,
as are embodied in the higher priced
models. And it possesses the same
"Golden Voiced” purity of tone that
makes all Healing radio DIFFERENT
from ordinary radio.
FEATURES
Specially matched full powered Magnavox
Dynamic Speaker. Latest type American
valves, including screen grid and super
power penthode amplifier.
Special hum-proof electrolytic conden-
sers.
Exclusive cabinet design. Beautiful
veneering and hand-rubbed finish.
Coils and Condensers specially designed
for selectivity.
Positive dial drive (no strings to slip or
jamb).
Power switch on front of cabinet.
TELEPHONE YOUR DEALER FOR A
COMPARATIVE DEMONSTRATION
OF HEALING GOLDEN VOICED RADIO
A. G. HEALING, LTD.,
MANUFACTURERS AN T D MASTER DISTRIBUTORS
(Wholesale Only)
MELBOURNE: 167-173 Franklin Street, 0.1.
ADELAIDE: Cr. Pirie and Pultcney Streets.
SYDNEY: 164-170 Goulburn Street.
. Queensland Dealers Write to—-
R. J. ROSE, C/o T. W. MOSS & CO.,
121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.


Men that are men
need a marts blade
PRQBAK
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
MADE IN ENGLAND cr"
2/3 per packet.
OF ALL DEALERS
Here's news for you outdoor men
with stubborn beards. Here's a
sturdy, smooth-shaving blade that's
specially made for men like you.
A heavier blade with super-keen
edges, specially honed for heavy
duty on tough bristles.
d
The stout blade for stiff beards.
Managing Agents for Australia: PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY
Missing Friends.
JOHN RYAN and JULIA RYAN.
JOHN RYAN and JULIA' RYAN (for-
J merly Julia Darcy) were married at St.
Peter’s Church, Daylesford Victoria, on 31st
December, 1865, and it is believed that the
issue of such marriage included
Valentine, born November, 1866,
Catherine, born April, 1868. and
Denis, born in or about 1869.
BERTHA SEEDORF, commonly known as
Bertha Liebow (formerly Bertha or Bridget
Ryan), a daughter of the above-mentioned
John Ryan and Julia Ryan, clied at Mount
Lawley, Western Australia, in November,
1930, and Letters of Administration of her
Estate have been granted by the Supreme
Court of Western Australia to The Perpetual
Executors Trustees and Agency Company
(W.A.), Limited, whose registered office is
at St. George’s Terrace, Perth, in the 'said
State of Western Australia.
The said John Ryan and Julia Ryan and
the said Valentine Ryan, Catherine Ryan
and Denis Ryan, or, if they or any of them
be dead, their personal representatives or
next of kin are requested to communicate
immediately with The Perpetual Executors
Trustees and Agency Company (W.A.),
limited, at the above address.
Dated this 12th day of July, 1932.
AOKLAND AND WATKINS,
Perpetual Trustees Buildings, Perth,
Solicitors for the Company.
Missing Friends.
JOHN MINIHANE OR MONAHAN OR
MOYNIHAN.
YY/ILiL any person who can afford informa-
tion as to the present whereabouts of this
gentleman (who was born in Ireland about
1855 and left Ireland for Australia about 50
years ago, and was in Queensland in the
Police Force, which he left in 1886) or of
the date and place of his death, or of the
present whereabouts of any of his descend-
ants. kindly communicate with FILLMER
AND PORT, Solicitors, 7 Marlborough
Place, Brighton, England.
HENRY NORMAN, son of
Robert Joseph Norman, taxi-driver, of
Dunedin, or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, is requested to communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Dunedin, N.Z.
OEATH —HENRY SEATH, formerly re-
siding at Rouse Hill, near Riverstone,
Gardener, is requested to communicate with
the undersigned, when he will hear some-
thing to his advantage in respect of certain
property under his brother’s will.
WM. WALKER AND SON,
Solicitors,
104 Hunter Street, Sydney.
ď
The “WESTERN RANGER”
COWBOY SADDLE
No. ISO.
This saddle is built in accord with
the latest ideas in cowboy saddles, with
full covered seat and cantle, round
bastos and three-quarter rigging. It is
made in light brown leather with dark
brown trimming, and the bastos are
lined with woolly sheepskin. One cord
eincha and wood stirrups are included
in price.
1 1 / A f\ / Freight Paid for Cash to
XI 1' L\J' m AnyN.S.W. R’way Station.
Write for our Catalogue of Texas and
Australian Saddlery.
The “STOCK RIDER” is an inexpensive stock
saddle with pigskin seat and firm capped kneepads.
Price £6/-/-; mounted with leathers, girth and good
n.-p. irons.
No. 147 Good Quality Station Ring-head Bridle, lin. wide,
without bit, 12/9. N.-p. ring-bit, 1/6. 27in. of Check for
Saddlecloth for 5/6.
No. 9 “KINGFISHER” Stockwhip, with 12-plait handle and
Bft. 12-plait thong, 25/-. Postage N.S.W., 1/-
All above freight free if sent with saddle.
THERE ARE LOTS OF CHEAP SADDLES IN OUR LIST.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.,
391 to 395 George St.>
Sydney.
**i**»4f ■Tiff mm yf *£ss
I
SINCE THE DAYS OF THE GOLD COACH.
From the days when the gold won on the early
diggings was transported by coach and escorted
by mounted troopers to the coast, the National
Bank has provided adequate facilities for the
conduct of the banking business of its clients.
During the past 73 years it has expanded from a
small local bank into a great financial institution,
with 434 offices and branches in Australia and two
in London, while its assets have grown to a total
. of £44,000,000.
The progress recorded is a result of a policy con-
sistently directed toward assisting the growth of
Australia’s production and trading and by provid-
ing, in the cities and the country districts, full
facilities for all banking business.
THE
NATIONAL BANK
Or AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Capital Paid Up £8,000,000
Reserve Fund £3,000,000
Principal Sydney Office.
342-346 GEORGE STREET
Vi
Used Cars Bring
Highest Values if Lubricants Were
A T VUtTV
JI JCf
Sctentiffcatty Compounded
EVERT FRICTION NEED!
The useful life of a petrol engined vehicle —midget car
to 5-ton lorry—is directly proportionate to its lubrication
care. Keep bearings sweet with ALEMITE Lubricants
from the first mile—cut repair bills in the meantime —
get the greatest value when ready to sell or trade.
By the ALEMITE High Pressure System of Lubrica-
tion—clean, new lubricants force out the old, carrying
away grit, bits of metal, dirt. And a special ALEMITE
Lubricant is now available for protection against every
friction wear. Ask for particulars from:
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH. Resident Manager
654 George Street, Sydney, N. S.W.
Or from the following representatives :
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MAOHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
ALEMITE CORPORATION • • Chicago, U.S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
K-Aust. 7-32
AEEMITE LUBRICANT
s


f
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying am!
Selling Last Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
/^!BI
THINK OP
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
If you havo
Woof & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Brifjs Sfreer. Sydney.
IF YOU MUST BE PAID
TO READ THE NEWS...
what of the advertisements?
‘‘The Brisbane Courier” depends for circulation solely on its
wholesome, cleanly-presented news and its vigorous policy in
public questions. Subscribers buy it to read it. As a result its
circulation is the greatest and most effective in all Queensland.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland’s leading paper for 84 years.
Representative: ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85007.
WOODS' great
PEPPERMINT
CURE
For Coughs, Colds and
Influenza.
Sold Everywhere.
?: -
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
NEW WHEAT VARIETIES.
“Finn Lee”: I was barking up the right
tree, but it appears that the ’possum has
moved —an unusual procedure. “George
Icks” (B. 3/8/’32) is now on the matter of
wheat standards. In the absence of details,
it is assumed that the chemist is to grade
our wffieat into one, two or three grades, per
chemical analyses. These analyses are to
be supplemented by results from an experi-
mental mill. The next procedure is to send
the. standardised wheats to the cocky to
grow on. By simply waving a magic wand
the farmer would produce strong white wheat
from strong white wheat; but as he has
not a magic wand he, in many cases, will
prove obstinate, and produce a low-strength
white from a strong white grain.
The present variations between the wheats
produced by the Australian States are pro-
nounced. What effect has this on the market
abroad? Is the market for Westralian wffieat
better than that for N. S. Wales grain? No,
of course not; for all Australian wheat is
regarded abroad as a soft white, neither
weak nor strong, but of consistent quality—
giving when milled a high yield of flour of
excellent color, eminently suitable and desir-
able for the manufacture of certain grade
flours. It resembles the wheat of the Argen-
tine in being somewhat deficient in sugar
(due, no doubt, to our climate). The defi-
ciency is reflected in the flour. Although this
main disadvantage occurs in all Australian
wheats, it is a matter which can be, and is,
readily remedied in the bakehouse by the
simple addition of a little malt.
Again, will not standards complicate trans-
port? How 7 is it proposed to make water-
tight compartments and keep them water-
tight? Is it not possible that a graded high-
strength standardised wffieat, classified by a
well-trained, zealous wffieat inspector, will be
partly reclassified by the chemist as a wheat
of low 7 strength on shipment? A shipment of,
say, 10,000 tons of wheat from various dis-
tricts, grown by numerous farmers (and
possibly w 7 ith one or two lots badly sprouted)
will show some variation between truck lots,
yet when the whole is bulked the average
is f.a.q.
After all, the miller and the baker arc the
people to standardise wffieat. I am referring
to the bread baker, not the biscuit baker;
the latter wmnts pollard, and our flour does
not interest him —it is too good. It may not
be. good policy to blind the wheat cocky with
science. Let us get on with the job of grow-
ing wheat for the world’s market, expending
all our surplus energy on increasing the yield
(new 7 varieties particularly, for hew blood is
everything, and a variety has a limited use-
ful career), and thereby decreasing the cost of
production and keeping the man on the land.
One thing is certain: wffieat standards cannot;
he measured with a foot-rule.
RESIDUAL EFFECT OF SUPER.
“Yeoman” : True, there is a residual influ-
ence on succeeding crops after a dressing
of any fertiliser (B. 10/7/’32), but it is
not wise to bank on this with regard to
super, in the production of cereals.
Super, is applied in the form of a mona-
ealeic phosphate. In this stage it is soluble
in water. In the soil it reverts to tbe di-
calcic form, where it is soluble in the dilute
soil acids, and absorbed by the growing
cereal plant. After a few months what
super, has not been absorbed by the plant in
the early mona-calcic and di-calcic forms
has reverted to the original tri-calcic phos-
phate, which is equivalent to untreated
ground rock phosphate. In the latter form
it is only slowly dissolvable by the dilute
soil acids.
Assuming that a farmer applied 2cw 7 t. of
super, per acre to a wheat crop, where half
of that quantity would be a sufficient dress-
ing, the residue would not be very useful for
a succeeding crop of wffieat, because only a
small percentage of such residue w 7 Ould be
dissolvable for absorption by the second
crop. For this reason, if a well-manured
crop should be a failure through lack of
rain, it would still be advisable to apply a
dressing of super, of, say, from 50 p.c. to
75 p.c. of normal quantity, if the same land
is to be cropped the following year.
But the residual effect of super, on her-
bage will be noticeable for several years.
Indeed, the carrying capacity of wheat-
growing lands that have been well supered
is commonly doubled. And it will be
found by observation that farmers applying
heavy dressings of super, to their cereal
crops are building up a valuable residual
store of phosphoric acid, which is having a
marked influence on the growth of herbage
when the land is given a rest from wheat
WOOL REFORMS.
“Dirranbandi”: While woolgrowers are
growling at the depressed state of their indus-
try it might be well if they set. about finding
methods of cutting costs. There is plenty
of room for modernisation. Passing over the
ramp of the “draft” deduction, which dates
back to the wool-trade of the Middle Ages,
what is the matter with putting more wool
into the bale, as a Bulletin contributor has
already suggested? This would reduce trans-
port costs alone, to say nothing of storage
and other charges.
This year our clip will be about
3,168,000 bales, averaging SlOflb. per bale.
Taking the N.S.W. share alone, if the bale
average could be raised to 3501 b.—and there
is no reason why it should not except the
fetich of custom —there would be close on
143,000 fewer bales. One expert, estimates
this would mean a saving of £65,000: Brokers’
warehousing, 6s. 3d. per bale, say, £40,000;
saving on woolpacks, 3s. per bale, £21,400;
cartage for delivery to buyers, 6§d. per
bale, £3500 ; leaving £lOO for sundries. Then
one must consider the cost to the grower of
rail transport to the sales —a punishing one
in most of the States —and the cost to the
buyer of oversea shipping. Buyers would
benefit especially from a heavier bale, since
charges are made, not on weight, but by cubic
measurement. Bale weights vary in dif-
ferent States according to clip quality. A
Queensland average would be about 3221 b.
But here again the adoption of a standard
weight would present no difficulties.
A FINE QUEENSLAND CLIP.
“Barcoo”: On Mt. Harden, in the Isisford
district, a flock of 6800 sheep cut a total
of 208 bales, averaging just over 3001 b.
weight. The wethers, 1400 in number, cut
62 bales, almost 141 b. per head —wffiich
shows what the Barcoo country will do.
The sheep in that area are generally ahead
of others in weight of carcase as well as
w r ool, and butchers are always keen to obtain
their requirements in the district. On Mt.
Harden some months ago the owner killed
an old wether for station use, picking one
which had been rejected from a mob of fats
just delivered to a firm of butchers. The
reject weighed 731 b. dressed. _ This is of
course exceptional for the district, and may
be accounted for by the fact that South
Aus. rams are always used. This policy
is not generally approved of in .Central
Queensland, but in tbe case of Mt. Harden
it has paid.
JETTING MIXTURES TESTED.
In 1932, as in previous years, field trials
of jetting mixtures have been carried out
by Mr. R. N. McCulloch, Assistant Ento-
mologist, in association with other . officers
of the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture
and representative graziers. Summaris-
ing the results of the experiments, of which
interesting details ai'e given in the “Agri-
cultural Gazette,” Mr. McCulloch notes
that the blowffiy strike on sheep jetted with
arsenicals did not spread to nearly so great
an extent as on untreated sheep. He also
says:—
“The insoluble calcium arsenite _ used
in suspension in w 7 ater as a jetting mixture
appears to give a somewffiat greater degree
of protection from blowfly strike than does
arsenite of soda solution or the sheep-dip
used. In six of the seven experiments in
which’ they were compared, calcium arsenite
sbow 7 ed a moderate or marked superiority,
whilst in the seventh it was slightly less
effective. In the one experiment in wffiich
Paris green w 7 as used the. results indicate
that it is comparable to calcium arsenite.
Here, as in previous tests, it gave promise
as a cheap and effective jetting mixture.
Soap or dilute caustic soda as a w 7 etting
agent in the mixture reduces the danger of
untreated patches occurring in the jetted
area. The addition of kaolin to arsenite of
soda solution does not. increase its efficiency
as a jetting mixture. Sodium silico-fluoride
solutions gave less protection than arseni-
cals. Melaleuca oil, applied in a jetting
mixture containing 1.25 per cent, oil, as a
deterrent of strike, proved somewhat less
effective, than arsenicals as used in the final
reduction of strike.”
In a case at Trangie the calcium arsen-
ite mixture was used too strong, with the
result that 20 or 30 sheep suffered some
injury. In no other instance was harm
seen to result from the use of any of the
mixtures, even when applied to blown
sheep.
WAR ON ST. JOHN’S WORT.
St. John’s wort, as two Australian scien-
tists, G. A. Currie and S. Garthside, have
discovered, was introduced into Victoria
about 1880 by a German woman, who got
the seeds from her native country and
planted them in her garden near Bright. The
plant spread from the garden into the adja-
cent racecourse; thence it spread rapidly in
all directions, until now the infested area
in Victoria alone is estimated at 250,000 to
400,000 acres, while smaller areas in N. S.
Wales and South Aus. are given over to the
thing.
Common salt will eradicate the pest, but
obviously it cannot be used on a sufficiently
extensive scale, and it is the same with
handpicking. Wheat can be grown and
harvested in infested country, but extra cost,
is entailed, and sale may present difficulties.
Cutting the weed before seeding weakens the
pest, but it is a perennial, so many close
cuttings would be required to kill it out.
Grasses and sub. clover have been estab-
lished in ground which had been prepared
for them, and competed successfully with the
weed. None of them was able to spread
into unprepared infested land and there
to eliminate St. John’s wort. Large areas
of heavily-infested land in the Ovens valley
have been planted with pinus radiata. On
the closing of the canopy of pine, St. John’s
wort disappears from the forest floor; never-
theless, in fire-breaks and in spots of in-
ferior shallow 7 soils, where the canopy is
not close, the weed may still be able to
survive. In small patches near Bright
dodder is living on St. John’s wort, and in
many cases smothering it.
Now control by insects is being tried, and
the investigators are hopeful of good results.
Researches in Europe led to the discovery
that over 60 insects feed on St. John’s w 7 ort;
some camp and breed on it as well until they
turn up their toes. Three species of the
Ghrysomcla beetle, hyperiei, variants and
hrunsvicensis, proved to have a special liking
for the pest and to be harmless to plants
with economic value. All three have been
imported and bred from in insectaries at
Canberra, and so has the tortricid moth.
In a pamphlet they have written for the
Council for Scientific and Industrial Re-
search, Messrs. Currie and Garthside say:
“The first liberations were made in the
Bright valley in October, 1930, and since
then liberations have been made near Dargo
(Vic.), and Tumharumba (N.S.W.). It is
too early to say whether flic beetles will
become firmly established in the field, and
whether they will be able to breed up to
numbers large enough to effect some control
of the weed”; but it has been established
that the beetles “feed on St. John’s wort in
all stages of growth.”
THE CHILLING PROBLEM.
“FY7» : One of the great problems of
Australian meat-giwvers is to devise a
method of chilling vffiieh w 7 ill enable ex-
porters to deliver beef and mutton in prime
condition in London at the end of a six
weeks’ sea journey. Good as frozen meat
is under modern methods of preparation
and carriage it cannot compete in the
market with the chilled product. No method
of chilling has yet been devised which gives
satisfactory results over a longer period than
a month or three w'eeks. That is why the
Argentine, less than half Australia’s dis-
tance from the European markets, practi-
cally enjoys a monopoly of the imported meat
trade, especially in Britain. At least one
British Dominion is preparing to challenge
the South American trade. This is South
Africa, as well situated as, if not better
than, the Argentine in regard to European
markets. South Africa recently landed its
first chilled-beef consignment at Smithfield
and beat the Argentine market for the
price, hindquarters bringing a farth-
ing. per pound higher than the South Ameri-
can product. This is more notable, since
the South African herds are far below those
of the Argentine in quality. The consign-
ment was a small one, and therefore presum-
ably picked, but the fact remains that the
new departure was a success.
For some years past Australian shippers
have been endeavoring toi formulate a
process by wffiich chilled meat can be de-
livered in London in prime condition. Small
shipments from Brisbane some time ago
raised high hopes, but the experiments have
not been followed up, so it must be presumed
that a satisfactory process has not yet been
hit upon. In this connection it may be
worth while mentioning a process devised by
the late Jean de Raeve, once a prominent
figure in Brisbane. Tins was tried in Westralia
at Wyndham meatworks during the killing
seasons of 1927-8-9, and was claimed to
have been entirely successful. After 35 days
in the chiller, beef was found to be in per-
fect condition, while the result was the same
in a second experiment in which the meat
was left in for 100 days. The process is
patented, and consists in essentials of the
supply of oxygen while the meat is in the
chilling chamber, and of a provision for
carrying off moisture and gases tending to
cause mould and decay. As far as can be
seen, no overseas shipments have been made
by the holders of the rights to the process,
and little publicity has been given to it.
Considering that the establishment of a
satisfactory chilling process would add millions
to Australia’s income, surely it is worth the
Federal Government’s while to make some
inquiry into this and other methods, supply-
ing the funds for the tests if necessary.
Wool will carry the sheep, mutton or no
mutton. Beef cattle are in another category
altogether.
BREED PAYS IN BEEF.
“Rocky”: Although the Shorthorn is not
as popular as it should be. in the Northern
State, Hugh Taylor, of Turanville stud, on
the Hunter, is doing his bit towards prov-
ing its true worth. He has just disposed
of over 600 bullocks, Nos. B’s, 9’s and o’s,
from his Cullin-la-ringo property, near
Springsure (C.Q.), to' the Lake’s Creek
meatworks on a weight basis. The whole
draft averaged 7841 b. frozen weight, and 50
of the heaviest went 9501 b., bred and fat-
tened though they were during three of the
driest years on record. They graded 96 p.c.
first quality, which is no mean feat after
being travelled in Queensland trucks for
over 200 miles.
The sires of these bullocks were bred on
Turanville out of dams originally imported
from England by Calrossie Flatterer, cham-
pion bull at the Royal Sydney Show for
two successive years. Recently Basildon
Rosicrucian was imported at a cost of nearly
4000gns. He has never yet been beaten in
the ring, and on his last appearance in Eng-
land was awarded the supreme champion-
ship.
The importance of introducing the best
blood into the Australian beef industry can-
not be over-emphasised. The practice w 7 as
adopted by the Argentine, with unfortunate
results for the Commonwealth.
VICTORIAN MILKING HERD TESTS.
The results of the Vic. Government stand-
ard herd tests for the season are a triumph
for the Jerseys and to a less degree the
milking Shorthorns. Fifty-two herds aver-
aged, with allowances, over 4001 b. butter-fat
per cow; 45 were Jerseys, four Ayrshires.
two Friesians and 1 milking Shorthorn. But
the highest individual record was again
made by a milking Shorthorn—74slb. Last
year another of the breed (bred by W. K.
Atkinson, of Swan Hill) was top with
7271 b.
NICOTINE SPRAYS.
“Nick. O’Teen”: One of the orchardists’
many troubles is aphis, and it behoves us to
get busy, for the little fellows will soon be
along. There should be a fair proportion of
waste tobacco in Australia this year, and
consequently a chance of reducing the cost
of nicotine spraying.
Tobacco leaves vary from 2 p,c. to. 6 p.c. in
their nicotine .content, and the stumps and
stems contain approximately 1 p.c. when air
dry. By extracting the leaves a stronger
solution is obtained than by extracting stems
and stumps.
Generally speaking, a tobacco extract from
waste tobacco, using 1001 b. of the waste to
200 gallons of warm (not hot) water, will
contain approximately .05 p.c. nicotine after
soaking for 24 hours. By making this solu-
tion acid with sulphuric acid (i.e., adding the
acid until the extract turns blue litmus-
paper red), it may be concentrated by boil-
ing to 100 gallons without loss of nicotine,
and this w T ould be a suitable strength for
spraying; but a liberator in the form of soap
or lime should be added when spraying.
Neat tobacco extract (without evapora-
tion), although weak in nicotine, is more
active than nicotine sulphate or Black Leaf
40 solutions, unless the latter are rendered
strongly alkaline with soap solution, lime-
water or some similar liberator. In some
instances it is advisable to use a spray of
lime-water several days after the nicotine
sulphate spray, particularly if the weather
is overcast. The sun is a great help in
liberating the nicotine —indeed, sometimes it
is too great a help, for the nicotine is vola-
tilised too freely and dispersed before it
does its work.
The value of tobacco extract will natur-
ally vary with the percentage of nicotine in
Hie raw material, but usually, computing
nicotine to be worth 12s. a pound (present-
day retail price), and making allowance for
free nicotine, the value is roughly a penny a
gallon, so that it would not be advisable to
pay more than a penny or two per pound for
any refuse available.
In conclusion, do not use rain water for
breaking down nicotine spray when hard
water is available. In using nicotine spray,
I break down nicotine sulphate with weak
tobacco extract and add a pint of lime-water
(Continued on next page.)


=LJ
■ >
m
Tough leather, doubled!
That’s the best guarantee of the
longer service this Abbey Boot
gives. Its sole is made of two
thicknesses of first-grade Aus-
tralian leather. Its upper, shaped
on an exclusive Abbey last, is
so curved in design that it lies
snugly over the instep arch with-
out any dragging strain. The
boot is close-fitting and pliant,
with roomy, well-shaped toe. . .
an ideal style for the active man.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
in every size. Specify width and
length, and order, also, the correct
Abbey Polish (6d. per tin), or one
of the handy cleaning outfits (2/6
complete).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 457-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 43/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 295
A
COMPOUND ESSENCE
OF LINSEED
Couchs
SAF
Duplicate Parts, Combs and
Cutters.
Accurately made, correctly
hardened.
Perfectly finished.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
If You Want Queensland Trade,
You Must Advertise in
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
This great Queensland daily, and its
companion journal, the “Sunday
Mail,” give a second-to-none
“cover” in the metropolitan area and
in country districts. Their popu-
larity is explained bv their brightness
and the all-round excellence of their
news features. The strong circulation
position of both papers is revealed by
recently issued independently verified
audited certificates. Rate cards, etc.,
from
Robert Jackson,
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(’Phone: 81522.)
Turn to the West
for More Trade!
CHOOSE WISELY WHEN
SELECTING YOUR ADVERTISING
MEDIUM.
THE PERTH
has produced wonderful results for
advertisers using this leading weekly.
Results are now greater than ever
since the gross circulation has nearly
doubled this year.
The gross output for the issue of
August 7 was
50,000
copies. Business is booming, choose
this popular medium and be sure of
prosperity.
SPRAY
PUMPS
4*l
irCtiL*
5S
We carry large stocks of all types of Spray Pumps,
the most popular of which are:
“LE SANS RIVAL.” A Pump with a non-cor-
rosive copper tank, capable of holding 3Tf gal.
Supplied with hose, 18-inch brass extension, and
two nozzles. Fitted with double strainer. Carried
on back as knapsack.
LEAD-LINED KNAPSACK SPRAY PUMPS. For
use with Sulphuric and other acids. A very useful
Spray for vines and market gardens.
BUCKET SPRAY PUMPS. Several makes of these
handy Pumps are available.
-REGA” PNEUMATIC KNAPSACK SPRAY. (As
illustrated.) Capacity* 3 gals. Made of special
brass alloy. Each pump is tested to 601 b. pressure.
Full particulars and prices of above Sprays will
be sent on request.
lersonS
ProprieUnj limited
“Dependable Goods Since
582-592 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
>l-65 Bathurst St., Sydney
116-130 Waymouth St.,
Adelaide
532 Murray St., Perth
to every 10 gallons, thereby saving half the
quantity of nicotine sulphate. I am more
than satisfied with results.
PROFITABLE LIFE OF HENS.
“Jack Point”: It has been the practice of
Australian poultry-farmers to replace half
their flock with pullets each year—that is,
the old birds are passed out after they have
completed two years of laying. I am sur-
prised at “Minorca’s” assertion (B.
10/S/’32) that Wcstralians replace the en-
tire flock every year. Pullets certainly lay
much better than hens in their second year
of laying, and by careful breeding and feed-
ing can be made to lay when eggs are at
their highest price.
An American experiment with a flock
of 450 pullets may be quoted. The entire
flock was carried on to the second-year test,
a proportion of the best layers to a third-
year test, a few to the fourth year. Average
production over the whole period for the
pullet year was 210 eggs. It was found that
the greatest decrease in production was
between the first and second years of laying.
Taking the first year’s figures as 100 per
cent., in the second year there was a drop
to 63 per cent., in the third year to 50 per
cent., in the fourth to 40 per cent. Few
Australian poultry-farmers would admit a
decrease of 37 p.c. between first- and second-
year production. If such is general, then
it is a strong argument in favor of what
“Minorca” deprecates, viz., the replacement
of the whole of the flock each year.
Certainly culling should be carried on
rigorously and continuously, the breeders
should be selected as far as possible from
trapnested birds, and the birds divided into
flocks according to productive ability, and
fed accordingly. By following such methods,
the careful poultry-farmer will soon be in a
position to tell definitely just when a cer-
tain bird or flock passes from the profitable
to the unprofitable stage.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.')
/ am milking a heifer which calved in
April ( dead calf) and has since developed
small lumps like gristle in each teat. After
her milk is separated the waste of the separa-
tor bowl is dark-colored like blood.. (1)
Malady? (2) Treatment? (3) Will the
trouble disappear after next calving? —l467.
(1) Symptoms point to. mammitis. (2)
Treatment normally consists in frequent
stripping out, in combination with massage
and hot fomentations. If the condition is
of any standing, however, it is doubtful if
these measures would prove effective. The
use of vaccines has given good results as a
preventive, but as a curative the results
have not always been reliable. (3) In many
cases the trouble subsides, and little or no
difficulty is experienced after the next,
calving.
Prevention and treatment of “ bloating ” in
cattle? —1448.
Prevention consists in introducing the cattle
gradually to green succulent foods, such as
clover and lucerne, which are commonly re-
sponsible for the condition. Cattle should
never be turned into lucerne or clover
patches on an empty stomach, and should
not be allowed to eat their fill until they
become accustomed to the diet. To relieve
effects of bloating, administer loz. bicar-
bonate of soda and loz. powdered
ginger. When the animal rises loz. of pure
turpentine in 1J pints of linseed oil may
be given. The use of a trocar and canula to
puncture the rumen and allow the escape
of gas is necessary in bad cases in order to
save the animal’s life.
How to keep tags free from vermin? Mine
are infected with brown bugs not much
thicker than a sheet of paper. —l4s4.
The parasite referred to is most probably
the common pig louse. The pigs’ bodies must
be freed of these and the stye put in a
sanitary condition. Remove and burn old
bedding, and spray the inside of the pig-
house with a parasiticidal solution. To free
the pigs, use a mixture of used car cylinder oil
and kerosene in the proportion of 6 to 1, care
being taken to thoroughly dress the ears,
jowls and between the hind -limbs. A warm
sunny day should be selected. Treatment
should be repeated in 3 or 4 weeks’ time
if lice have escaped the first treatment.
How to prevent bandicoots rooting up a
lawn and garden?— l3o4.
Place a piece of poisoned lettuce at the
place of entry, or set a rabbit-trap. Alter-
natively, get a fox terrier.
(1) Is there an egg board in every State
of Australia? (2) Have all the eggs from
the different States to come to the N.S.W.
Egg Board for export, or does each State
export its own? (3) Who fixes the price
to be paid to producers? —ls2o.
(1) Only in N. S. Wales and Queensland.
(2) Each State exports its own surplus
eggs. In N.S.W. and Queensland the re-
spective boards handle the export surplus.
(3) In N.S.W. and Queensland the prices
paid to producers are fixed by the respective
boards. In other States prices are ruled
by the market.
(1) Is there an award for woolclassers
in N.S.W.? (2) Prospects for a young man
who has just learned woolciassing ? —1513.
(1) No. Graziers’ Association of N.S.W.
oan advise as to current conditions of pay-
ment, etc. (2) Not bright. There appear
to be more classers than are required to
fill the jobs available.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Dunboy”: “Rab” (B. 27/7/’32) and his
poison cart are out of date. Fumigation
with calcium cyanide powder is much more
effective, and more humane than the phos-
phorus. When fumigating, work your war-
rens thoroughly, and then make an inspec-
tion at least Once a week for a while. You’ll
soon find most of your burrows deserted.
Fumigators cost from 15s. upwards. I get
gratifying results with my small 15s. one.
1 “Sheepo”: To prevent a Border Leicester
ram jumping fences (B. 3/8/’32), make
a pair of hobble-straps out of old tyre covers,
and either hobble or sideline the ram, using
a stout light chain to connect straps. This
will both prevent and cure.
“Curlew”: To trap crows, dig up a square
yard of soil, put a hen’s egg in the centre,
and set four rabbit traps round it. Put a
sheepskin near by. The egg does the trick.
Last week I got three thus in one day.
“Ivanhoe”: Straining wire-netting need
not be the intricate job “Boorooby” (B.
3/8/’32) describes. After completing the
trench unroll the netting for the whole hun-
dred yards flat on the ground with what we
call long side towards the fence. Lift lip
and hook loosely at intervals, then thrust
an iron rod, about five-eighths of an inch
thick, through mesh with ends projecting.
Three hobble-rings, fastened to two 4ft.
lengths of wire to form a triangle, will do
to fasten on to rod in netting, llook block
and tackle to ring remaining free; strain
the whole roll in one operation, and tie net-
ting on to fence. This is expeditious and
a workmanlike job.
“Sylvester”: To avoid that annoying
turning in ploughing headlands, try opening
up the same distance from the side fence
as the width of your headlands and finish-
ing the game distance from the opposite
fence. You have now an equal margin on
the four sides of your field, and starting
against the ploughing you can plough round
and round Until you work back to your
fences. This way also you avoid walking
your horses on ground that is ploughed.
“Karaway”: Oil drums, filled with con-
crete, make better foundation blocks for a
haystack stand than wood or bricks. Mice
cannot climb them, so there is no need for
a protecting fence of galvanised iron.
Don’t make holes for the drums, but stand
them on top of the ground.
“Dimon”: If you want to put down a
well, and are doubtful about striking water,
try the place by boring with a large-sized
auger. Take an old tool that is hot much
good for other purposes, cut off the eye, and
drill a couple of holes through the end so
that an iron rod can be bolted on to the
end of it. Also drill a hole every foot through
the rod to bolt the handle on' to it. Pro-
vided you don't strike rock, you can go
down 20ft. or more with that.
“Dai It.”: Don’t throw away the old
broom-handle. Saw it into six-inch lengths,
bore a hole lengthwise through the centre
of each, and slip them on the wire bucket-
handles as hand protectors.
“Floodmark”: I make farm fieatsfoot oil
by taking the four legs cut off the station
killer. Skin them right to the hoof and with
a meataxe break up bones, joints and hoofs,
being careful not to waste the oil. Boil
in a kero.-tin for about 12 hours ; let it get
cold ; then spoon off the oil. Place it in a pan
and slowly boil the water off. The residue
is about f-pint of valuable harness oil.
“Bill R.”: When thrown flat in the toolbox
chisels get their cutting edges dulled by con-
tact with other tools. Make a rack for
them wherein their sharpened edges may
stand upon a board nailed below, and on
this board keep a strip of oiled woolly sheep-
skin. Then the chisels will for long retain
their keenness and will not rust.
“Heresone”: Here is a better way of cut-
ting leather than by means of a ruler (B.
20/7/’32). Cut a piece of pine about 2in.
by lin. by fin. and split it lengthwise. Pare
off one of the split faces for half its length
till the leather will fit into the slit when
the two are held together again. Bind
together and cut a nick across the edge of
the slit at a distance from its end equal to
the width of the desired strand. Cut skirt-
ing, legs, etc., off the hide, leaving a clean
edge with all the corners rounded. Along
the edge cut the first three or four inches
of the strand: then slip it into the slit of
the gauge. Hold later in the right hand,
with a sharp knife in the nick between the
strand and the hide. Pull the strand care-
fully through the gauge, but don’t touch
rest of hide. With a little practice strands
may be cut much more rapidly and neatly
than with a ruler. The corners will
straighten out in plaiting if the strands are
. kept wet.
“A.C.8.”: Plant a few radishes in your
melon and pumpkin holes. The pumpkin
beetle doesn’t like the smell of radishes (long
red variety is best). Let the radishes stay
there and they will seed.
“Sylvester”; If you soak your vegetable-
garden seed overnight in water, you will get
a quicker and an even strike. I have found
this of particular value when sowing mangels.
“Hatter”: Mangolds should not be fed to
stock straight from the paddock, as in that
condition thev are liable to cause digestive
trouble. They should be pulled from the
ground and stored for at least three weeks.
“Gulliver”: Yet another use for worn-out
motor tyres. Flaps of rubber 6in. long
by 4in., wired on to the plough hames
so that they take the bearing of the hooks
on the collar, will lengthen the life of a
collar considerably. When worn out they
can be renewed.
“Wodgil” ; The Westralian Department of
Agriculture is continuing the policy begun
last year of swapping guaranteed seed from
the State farms .for f.a.q. wheat and oats.
The basis of exchange is 1£ bushels of
f.a.q. wheat for a bushel of pedigree seed
wheat, and a bushel of f.a.q. wheat for a bushel
of pedigree seed oats. Naturally the demand
exceeds the supply, and individual appli-
cants will be limited, in the ease of wheat,
to 15 bags of Baroota Wonder Early; 2
each of Bencubbin, Carrabin, S.H.J., Sutton,
Comeback and Geeralying; 3of Gluyas Early,
and Merredin; 5 of Nabawa and Noongaar;
1 of Totadgin and 3 of Yandilla King. As
regards oats the limits are: Algerian, 3
bags; Burt’s Early, 3; Guyra, 2; Mulga, 3.
Seed will be supplied freight free to the
settler’s siding.
“Elderson”: Not only the fruit of the
white cedar (B. 10/8/’32) is to be avoided.
From bitter experience I can state that
the bark is deadlier than the berries. Two
horses of mine that ate the bark died in
great agony. There had been a shower of
rain, but whether it is more poisonous then
I don’t know.
“Buckwong”: “Cooramin” (B- 3/8/’32)
is wrong in his minimising of the effects of
the various seasons on the quality of timber
cut therein. Timber cut in September,
October and November when dried out will
be found to have cracked from 10 to 100
times as much as timber felled in April,
May and June. And cracks are what de-
stroy timber, whether for fine or rough use.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must he confined to ope subject.
The right of selection, and rejection is reserved.
\\ anted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Fitter, young, with knowledge book-keeping, wants
position, Islands preferred. Refs.—lsl9.
To exchange recent numbers “Popular Mechanics’’
for “National Geographic” magazines.—ls 26.
Particulars regarding S.S. Gunga, which used to
come to Sydney about 40 years ago. —1515.
To buy Stanley Gibbons’ stamp catalogue (Whole
world), 1930 or later.—lsll.
To buy, book dealing with leather plaiting, whip-
making, etc.—ls 24.
To get in touch with relatives of Thomas Wood,
who left Lydd, Kent, England, many years ago.
—1532.
To buy “Cartoons by Bradley,” published by Rand,
McNally and Co., Chicago, U.S.A. —1537.
To buy, secondhand, latest edition “Encyclopaedia
Britannica.”—ls36.
To buy Jean Curlewis’s “Introduction to Verse-
making.”—ls42.
To buy instrument for decoying foxes by calls.
—1162.
Words of “The Shooting of Dan McGrew.” —1538.
A Digger farce or sketch suitable for a soldiers’
concert. —1546.
To buy, secondhand, British scientific periodicals.
Any date or subject.—ls7l.
Words of verse beginning “ ‘We’ll all be ruined,’
said Hanrahan,” also poem entitled “The Silent
Wife.”—ls6l.
Words of verse beginning “In Flanders fields the
poppies gr0w.”—1553.
Information Sought.
(1) Can any ground within the confines
of a golf course be declared out of bounds
by local rule? (2) Would it be in order
to make a local rule declaring a part of
one fairway out of bounds fbr play which
should be on another fairwayt (3) If so,
can you name any courses where this is
done? —l4l4.
(1) Yes. (2) Although unusual, it would
be in order. (3) The Royal Queensland
club made the fairway of the 16th hole out
of bounds from the 17th tee during the play
of the Queensland championship.
(1) Is a retail trader subject to sales tax?
(2) Is stock which was held by a retail
trader prior to the gazetting of the Sales
Tax Act subject to tax? —1218.
(1) If he is not a manufacturer and does
not engage in the sale of goods by wholesale,
no. (2) No.
(1) In Rugby Union football how can an
"off-side” player become “ on-side”? (2)
Correct dimensions and weight of ball used
in Rugby Union football? —1576.
(1) An “off-side” player becomes “on-
side” (a) When an opponent carrying
the ball has run five yards, (b) When the
ball has been kicked by an opponent. (c)
When an opponent has intentionally touched
the ball, provided such opponent does not
catch or gather it. (d) When one of his
own team has run in front of him either
carrying the ball or after having kicked
the ball when behind him. Such kicker
must be in the field of play to put the “off-
side” player “on-side,” though he is not de-
barred from previously following up in
touch. (2) Length, longest diameter, 11
to ll^in.; circumference at longest diameter,
SOin. to 31in.; circumference midway be-
tween ends, 24in. to 251 in.; weight, 13£oz.
to 15oz.
What do butcher birds feed on and how
do they derive their name? —1577.
They feed on large insects, lizards, mice
and young birds, and derive their name from
their habit of hanging up the bodies of any
victims which cannot be swallowed immedi-
ately by sticking them on spiny twigs in
some convenient tree.
When did the Whisky Insurrection occur
in America and what caused it? —1567.
It was an uprising in Western Pennsyl-
vania in 1794 against the imposition by
the Federal Government of excise on domes-
tic _ spirits. Washington sent a body of
militia, who, without bloodshed, pacified the
insurgents.
What is rock-soap? —lss4.
A black or nearly black mineral consisting
of a mixture of aluminium silicate and iron
oxide. It is a soft, friable substance with
a greasy touch, and is used for the prepara-
tion of artistic crayons. Deposits are
found in Saxony, Bohemia, Skye and An-
trim.
(1) Has any medical explanation of sea-
sickness ever been given? (2) What drugs
should be taken to ward off a possible
attack? —1558.
(1) The theory most generally held is
that it is due to the unusual stimulation of
the sensory organs of the ears, eyes and
stomach in the endeavor to keep the body
balanced. (2) No drug is recommended. A
purgative and a tonic before starting, to-
gether with a light diet and plenty of walk-
ing about the deck, may ward off an attack.
(1) Where are the Channel Islands? (2)
Area? (3) Population? (4) Climate? (5)
Chief products? (6) What language is
spoken?—l 392.
(1) In the English Channel, midway be-
tween Plymouth and St. Malo. (2) 73.4 sq.
miles. (3) In 1931, 93,061. (4) Mild. (5)
Of Jersey, potatoes, tomatoes and wheat;
of Guernsey, green crops and oats, fruits,
tomatoes and flowers. (6) French, officially,
but many of the inhabitants speak both
French and English.
What was, the “assignment system ” in
vogue in convict days? When and why was
it abolished? —l422.,
The first free settlers in N.S.W. received
small grants of land, and the services of
convicts were assigned to them free of ex-
pense, the convicts being provided by the
(government with two years’ rations and
one year’s clothing. The system gradually
developed into one under which the services
of convicts might be obtained by anyone
who could clothe and feed them, and by
1804 was so fully taken advantage of that
the governor could not get enough convict
labor to carry out indispensable public
works. By Darling’s time the system had
become a scandal; moreover, the wives of con-
victs had been coming out as free settlers
and arranging that their husbands should
be assigned to them. Drastic modifications
were made in 1827, further restrictions were
made 12 years later, and in 1841 the sys-
tem was abolished.
Date when the Golden Casket lottery was
started, and its object; and also what is
its present object? —l3Bo.
It was instituted in December, 1916, in
aid of the repatriation fund of the Queens-
land War Council. The first “art union’’
was drawn on June 14, 1917. Five lotteries
were conducted in aid of the repatriation
fund. No. 6 was conducted in aid of the
Children’s Hospital nurses’ quarters, and
from No. 7 the profits were devoted to the
public hospitals.
How to play two-handed German whist?
—3550.
The full pack is used, and, after it is cut
as in whist, the dealer gitfes hi.s opponent
and himself 13 cards, one at a time, turning
up the 27th for the trump suit, and laying
it on the top of the remainder (the talon),
which is left face downwards. The non-
dealer begins by leading any card he fancies,
and the dealer must follow suit if he can.
The winner of the trick adds the trump card
to his hand, and the loser takes the top
card of the talon, without showing it. The
next card on the talon is then turned up;
a new trick is played in the usual way; the
winner takes the turned-up card, and his
adversary the one under it, as before, again
turning up the next. So the game proceeds,
the winner of each trick getting a new card
which is known to his opponent, the loser
getting one that is known only to himself,
until, the talon being exhausted, each player
should be able accurately to name the 13
cards held by the other, and the game resolves
itself into a problem in “double dummy.”
It is usually played for so much a
point, points being calculated on the num-
ber of tricks won in excess of those won by
an opponent.
(1) Having purchased land on a basis
of weekly payments, am I protected by the
N.S.W. Moratorium Act? (2) If so, what
are my obligations? (3) What steps should
I take for my protection? (4) At the expira-
tion of Act am I immediately liable for
arrears? —l462.
(1) Yes. (2) and (3) You are not rcouired
to do anything, being protected by the Mora-
torium Act. It is for the vendor to apply
to the .Court to exercise any powers given
to him under the contract. (4) You may
apply to the Court for an extension of the
date of repayment if you can show hard-
ship.
Where can I obtain copies or see copies
of the papers set for the examination of
applicants for clerical positions in the 1921
census ? —1455.
These papers were not in the usual public-
service form. The examination comprised
a very ordinary paper of arithmetic, includ-
ing the four rules and percentages and a
composition and a dictation test. The papers
are not available now.
What is the whippet principally used for,
and what are the points to look for in a
dog?— lssl.
It is used for racing in the North of Eng-
land, being trained to make for a towel held
at the end of the course by its owner. It is
bred in various colors, including black, fed,
white, fawn and brindle, and its appearance
is that of a greyhound in miniature. The
head should be long and lean, with smart
rose-shaped ears, long muscular peck, deep
capacious chest, long back, arched over the
loins; the forelegs should be moderately long,
and the hindquarters strong and broad with
muscular thighs ; the tail, long and tapering.
What were the measures of economy
adopted , at the conference of Premiers in
Canberra in June, 1931 ? —1573.
(«) A reduction of 20 p.c. in all adjust-
able Government expenditure, as compared
with’ the year ending June 30. 1930, including
all emoluments, wages, salaries and pensions
paid by the Governments, whether fixed by
statute or otherwise, such reduction to be
equitably effected. (b) Conversion of the
internal debts of the Governments on the
basis of a 224 p.c. reduction of interest.
(c) The securing of additional revenue by
taxation, both Commonwealth and State.
id) A reduction of bank and savings bank
rates of interest on deposits and advances.
(e) Relief in respect of private mortgages.
What examinations must be passed before
commencing training as a nurse? 1 have
acquired a “Pei’mit to Enrol,” but have mis-
laid the certificate. Will it be necessary for
me to sit for this again? —-1326.
The educational certificate held by you
would not be accepted. It would be neces-
sary for you to pass the examination con-
ducted by the Nurses’. Registration Board,
held in February, May, August and Novem-
ber. Forms of application for permission to
sjt l are obtainable from the board, 93 Mac-
quarie-etreet, Sydney.
(1) Are there any varieties of the salmon
or trout native to M.L., Australia or South
America? (2) Is the dorado of South
America g sabnon or trout? (3) What fish
belong to the family Characinidw? (4) Is
the Murray bod considered the finest edible
fish of the Australian rivers, and is it timer-
ally the most, expensive fish to buy? —ls9s.
(1) No. (2) The dorado or dolphin-fish
( Coryphama ) is an inhabitant of the sea
and rarely if ever enters rivers. It is not
related to the salmon or trout. (8) Carp-
like fish, known collectively as eharacins, are
very abundant in the lakes and swamps of
Central America. (4) Yes.
Ho,w did “Lewis Carroll” prove that one
equals nothing? Is his proof mathematically
sound?— l294.
Mr. Dodgson’s little joke, if memory
serves, was based on the algebraic formula:
A squared minus b squared divided by a
minus b equals a plus b. If abe I and b |,
a plus b equals one. But by the algebraic
formula the result is nil. The catch is that
the formula doesn't work when the quanti-
ties expressed by a and b are equal.
Is it an infringement of the law for a
church committee to pay a man to deliver
the church paper to the homes of the con-
gregation ? —1452.
No. The Postal Department should, how-
ever, be consulted if delivery in addressed
envelopes is contemplated.
(1) Method whereby the solder can be
extracted from old tins and cost of erecting
a plant? (2) Any market for the solder
recovered ?—1197.
(1) The usual process is an intricate
chemical one, involving the use of chlorine
gas. Under an older method the tin is re-
covered electrolytically. In either case the
plant involved would cost some hundreds of
pounds. (2) The material recovered would
be readily saleable.
(1) Is carillon music published as is
other music? (2) Do any modern music
composers write for the carillon? (3) Is
there any school in the British Empire
which gives tuition in carillon playing and
composing ?- -1579.
(1) Carillon music is rarely published.
It exists mostly in manuscript. The few
works that have been published are mostly
out of print, though copies are to be found
in large libraries. (2) J. Denijn and J. A
Wagenaar have done so. Elgar composed
a special “memorial chime” for the opening
ceremony of Loughborough carillon. (3)
At Birmingham TJni. a special lectureship
has been instituted in campanology, includ-
ing bell-making and tuning, acoustics of
bells, carillons, carillon music and chime
tunes, the composing of bell music, etc.
Particulars regarding King Island and
Flinders Island in Bass Strait as to length,
breadth, area, population, products, industries,
means of access, distance from Melbourne
and Launceston, fertility, scenery, climate,
mail facilities . sport and accommodation for
visitors?-- 1225.
King Island, 36 miles long. 13 miles wide;
area, 272,000 acres; population, 1040 (1921
census). Chief town, Currie; population
about SO. Inhabitants engage in cattle
fattening and dairying. The island is
reached by steamer from Melbourne (151
miles) and Launceston (200 miles). A strip
along the western portion is extremely fer-
tile ; the balance is of poor quality. The
scenery is picturesque and the climate is
mild (rainfall 22in. to 30in.). Mail facili-
ties are adequate and horse-racing, tennis,
golf, football and cricket are pastimes.
There is a hotel at Currie. Flinders Island,
42 miles long, 25 miles wide; area. 513,000
acres; population, 905 (1921 census). Chief
town is Whitemark; population about 100.
Inhabitants engage in dairying, fat-lamb-
and wool-growing, fishing and mutton-bird-
ing. The island is reached by steamer from
Melbourne (242 miles) and Launceston
(119 miles). There is some first-class land,
but a great deal of poor country. Scenery
is picturesque and climate mild, though sub-
ject to dry spells (rainfall 22in._ to 25in.).
There are adequate mail facilities and
tennis, rifle-shooting and cricket are pas-
times. There is a hotel at Whitemark.
In what era did vitro-varnish painting
flourish? Is it still practised? 'How is H
done?— ls63.
It was an art practised in Venice in the
loth century, but now almost lost. Varnish
highly colored for painting was mixed with
5 to 10 per cent, of burnt-glass powder,
the resulting substance being applied with
a fine brush, as in gesso painting, to any
surface. When dry the effect produced was
that of glass in relief. Water-glass (a solu-
tion of sodium) may be used with the same
result.
To what European army do the Zouaves
belong? When were they first formed? —
1548.'
They are a unit of the French Army, and
take their name from the Kabyle (Algeria)
tribe of Zwawa, from whom General Clausel
formed a regiment in 1830. These native
troops were at first officered by Frenchmen,
and a certain number of Frenchmen were
included in the ranks, but this proved un-
satisfactory, and the native element died
out. The Moorish dress is still maintained,
and there are now four Zouave regiments
formed of picked infantry veterans.
How is the N.S.W. Workers' Compen-
sation Commission constituted, and, what arc
its duties? Is it supported by public funds?
—1574,
It consists of a chairman, who must be
a barrister-at-law of five years’ standing, and
who has the same status as a District Court
Judge, and of two other members appointed by
the Governor. It exercises judicial functions
in regard to the determination of compensa-
tion claims, and its decisions are final. The
commission is required to furnish workers
and employers with information as to their
rights and liabilities under the Act, and to
make reasonable efforts to conciliate the
parties to any dispute. It may appoint medi-
cal practitioners as referees, and may summon
a medical referee to assist as an assessor, or
may submit any matter to a medical referee
or a board of medical referees for report.
Salaries and expenses incurred by the com-
mission are payable from a fund constituted
for the purpose by contributions from in-
surers.
Does Anybody Know?
Name of Federal politician who referred
to another M.ILK. as “a little, ludicrous,
loquacious, lamentable anachronism,” also
name of M. 11.8. so described, and when and
where the phrase was uttered?—lsBo.
Brief Answers.
P.G.: When a horse becomes cast and
struggles violently, secure its head. Once the head
is controlled the animal will cease struggling....
E.C.D.: India—P. C. Seth and Co., 62 Beadon-street,
Calcutta. Ceylon—H. D. Constantine and Son, lvatu-
lara. Burma—Hla Maung Bros., Insein. Japan—
Yokohama Nursery Co., Ltd., Box 72 Post Office,
Nakamura, Yokohama. China—through the Agri-
cultural College, Central University, Nankin R.H.:
N.S.W. unemployed-relief tax on 30s. a week plus
board and lodging valued at £1 is 2s. In
the event of wages accumulating for four weeks
the amount of tax deductible is 10s P. J.J.: The
trust is subject to Federal, State and unemployed-
relief taxes E.S.: (1) 18 years. (2) From any
dealer in firearms. (3) Any dealer will supply in-
formation... .A. E.S.: Not now imported. Bergers
and other Australian paint-makers make practically
the same; 2s. 6d. pint, 4s. 9d. pint, from Anthony
Hordern and Sons, Sydney T.R.: Bates and Co.,
Norwood, S.A D. 8.: See Green’s “Outline of
Australian Literature” T.P.W.: The painter is not
mentioned in any of the reference books in the
N.S.W. National Art Gallery and his work therefore
could not have been of much importance. .. .K.L.D.:
A George IV. penny is worth 3d. to 6d. if in good
condition E.J.: Write W. 11. Paling and Co., 338
George-street, Sydney... .Bega: Chances very poor at
present. .. .E.W.: Write Secretary, Air Board, Defence
Dept., Melbourne L.A.C.: Get in touch with
Island trading firms. Names and addresses in direc-
tory... .D.B. W.: Bulolo Gold Dredging, Ltd., Win-
gello House, Angel-place, Sydney M.R.: A deduc-
tion is not allowable for income tax purposes in
respect of depreciation on rented property. . . .W.R.S.:
Can't diagnose without examination. Consult a vet.
. ...M.L.L.: “Ducks,” obtainable from “The
Feathered World,” 9 Arundel-street," London; “The
Duck Book,” by Harris, Philips, 298 George-street, Syd.
. . . . R.B. : Clerk of District Improvement Board at
Hughenden, who will furnish information.,..
R.D.8.: Get in touch with Bjelke-Petersen Bros.,
Market and Castlereagh streets, Sydney.... M. B.:
(1) Should be good provided it, remains a wanted
commodity; some slight doubt about this. (2) No.
Imports into Australia made only in France and
England. It is a secret and patented process, the
name cellophane being the patent French name, and
used only-by that country. Known in England as
transparent packing paper. (3) Communicate with
the Commonwealth Institute of Science and Indus-
try, Canberra.... D.M.: Question too vague. Tell us
what kind of material you want to make waterproof.
. ...0.W.: Nesfield’s “Manual of English Grammar
and Composition” (6s. Bd.), and Quiller-Couch’s “On
the Art of Writing” (Bs. 6d.), Angus and Robertson.
. ...J.R.W.: “Tool Manual for School Shops” (3s.
Gd.), from Henry Disston and Sons, Salisbury-road,
Camperdown, Sydney R.C.D.: Unable to trace
the firm F.M.D.: Write Will Andrade, 173 Pitt-
street, Sydney AV.P.: “How to Train a Race-
horse,” by William Muggridge, Angus and Robertson,
25s R.M.G.: Every N.S.W. dog- registration re-
mains in force from the day upon which it is made
until the next 30th Sept D.W.: Write Admini-
stration, Norfolk Island... .W.H.C.L.: Write O. T.
Lempriere and Co., 23 Macquarie-place, Sydney....
A.J.8.: Pensions under the Commonwealth Super-
annuation Act are made up of employees’ contribu-
tions and a proportion, 50 p.c. at least, payable
from Commonwealth revenue. Under the Financial
Emergency Acts 1931, all superannuation pensions
are reducible by 20 p.c. of the proportion of the
pension payable by the Commonwealth. Any con-
tributor may obtain information as to his pension
on application to the Superannuation Board, Can-
berra... .A. D. 8.: Communicate with the T’rotho-
notary’s Department, Supreme Court House, King-
street, Sydney, with a view to having the costs
taxed.... T.G.H.: (1) In the case of felonies and
misdemeanors there is no general limit of time
within which an indictment must be preferred,
though there are a few statutory limitations. If
the cheque in question does not amount to £2O
and the accused consents to summary jurisdiction it
could be dealt with in a Court of Petty Sessions.
(2) An action to recover a simple contract debt
must be brought within six years. .. .M.C.C.: The
Distress Abolition Act of 1930 (N.S.W.) abolished
all distress for rent due so that your landlord cannot
levy on the furniture; but he could recover the rent
due as a debt and garnishee wages, up to £2
per week being exempt... .W.M. : The trouble pos-
sibly is due to some cause of which you have no
knowledge, but of which the doctor is aware. Un-
less you can show beyond doubt that the cause was
faulty or negligent extraction, you can’t succeed....
J.C.: You are not required to sign the copy. Fre-
quently the original is left with a solicitor and a
copy taken by the testator, but this is merely a
matter of convenience and safe keeping. .. .G.M.D. :
No; it remains subject to the statutory deduction. ...
H.E.M.: In view of the unusual visitation of frost this
season, you wouldn’t have much of a case against
the vendor. The N.S.W. Moratorium Act protects
you in the matter of instalments. If the vendor
takes action, consult a solicitor W.J.H.: The Sec-
retary of the Gould League of Bird Lovers is H.
W. Hamilton, B.Sc., 5 Eurella-street, Burwood, Syd-
ney.... F.L.: The first Australian artist to receive a
European award was Rupert Bunny, who, in 1890,
gained a “Mention Honorable” at the Paris Salon;
Longstaff was similarly honored in 1891, and Streeton
in 1892. —MiJ.T.: (1) Stipple. (2) It is a photo-
graphic process put on by the process-engraver
where indicated by the artist, or the artist may put
it on himself by placing a transfer over the part
to be stippled and rubbing it on with the point
of a pencil. Transfers procurable from Waide
Transfer Co., 552 Lonsdale-street, Melbourne....
0.G.5.: W. T. Goodge’s “The Oozulum Bird” is in-
cluded in “The Bulletin Reciter,” published by
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Sydney, 2s E.M.C.: See
“Australian Encyclopaedia,” vol. I, page 271....
R.J.: (1) Get a doctor to recommend a specialist.
(2) It has been tried moderately, but is not often
used. (3) Any of the psychiatrists would be able
to do all that was required... .S.A.S.: Corns are
generally due to pressure. Wear woollen socks and
eschew tight boots. Don’t attempt self-treatment.
. ...L.A.S.: We have no knowledge of the drug you
mention. The cause of arthritis often lurks in
septic teeth and tonsils... .L.F.G.: Write N.S.W.
Agriculture Dept, for leaflet on destruction of dingoes.
.. . .W.J.M.M.: The book is unknown to u 5....
F.C.A.: Write to the Government Secretary, St.
Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands... .5.8.: Society of
Artists (Miss V. Carruthers, sec.), 27 Macquarie-
place ; Australian Art Society (W. M. Whitney,
pres.), The Cottage, Mulbring-street, Mosman; the
Water-color Institute (11. E. Grace, sec.), c/o. Tooth’s
Brewery, George-street West—all Sydney... .A.J.F.:
No. Follow your doctor’s advice... .C.L.: 42 cub.
ft. of timber equals one shipping ton; 108 cub. ft.
equals one stack, and 128 cub. ft. equals one cord.
... .A.E.L.: Residents of Lord Howe Island are
liable to State and Federal income taxes. The fact
that they did not vote at the Federal and State
elections does not affect the position... .F.M.11.:
Your employer is liable. Amount of compensation
is based upon average weekly earnings.... (Many
others mailed.)


DOPE
BY
GRANTLEY LORRENS.
BOOK IV—THE SYLVANIA.
Chapter VI.
THE silence in the stateroom, following
the lawyer’s announcement, was broken
only by the sounds of movement from
the decks of the Sylvania.
The other three men waited patiently
for Johns to say something. Evidently
the master of the Sylvania had known the
news beforehand, for he was watching
Johns with a sympathetic twinkle in his
eye. Sutherland, too, was inclined to be
amused. It gave him a pleasant feeling
of bonhomie to be the bearer of such
tidings, and he derived a certain amount
of quiet amusement out of his study of
the way in which the recipient was taking
the news.
As for Stephen Gibbons, he was satisfied
to stare, in goggle-eyed astonishment, at
Johns, and to keep on staring.
Johns sat staring at nothing. The news
at first did not register fully on his con-
sciousness. This was a dream—it had all
been a dream, after all. He would wake
up in the morning to find himself aboard
the Spindrift, still on the ocean, still
dawdling on over the quiet waters.
But forty thousand pounds! One could
have done a lot with that—if it had been
true.
Slowly his eyes travelled from one face
to another. The lawyer and the captain
of the Sylvania were both watching him,
with twinkles in their eyes. Of course!
It was all a joke!
It was then when he caught sight ot
Gibbons’s astounded goggling that the
news assumed reality. But his comment
was probably the last thing they were ex-
pecting of him.
"Steve! For Heaven’s sake! The wind
might change, and catch you like that!”
The idiocy of his words broke the ten-
sion that had been in his brain, and he
laughed suddenly, and a little harshly.
“I’m sorry,” he apologised to them.
“But it’s rather difficult to comprehend.
It’s almost a—a blow. Why, it is more
money than I ever thought to earn in all
my life!”
Captain Anderson jabbed his finger at
the bell on his table.
“By gosh! I wouldn’t mind taking half-
a-dozen blows like that, Mr. Johns!
They’d do me! Gin slings—the pink ones,
and strong!” he ordered as the steward
entered noiselessly. “Mr. Sutherland, you
and I will just drink his health, and then
I think we’ll buzz off. I reckon, if I’d
had a nasty blow like that, I’d want a
little time to think it over quietly!”
As Sutherland put down his empty glass
a few minutes later he turned to Johns
apologetically:
“You won’t be able to lay hands on it
for a while, Mr. Johns. There are formali-
ties. But if you don’t want to stay in
Zandavar to put them through in person—
and who, in the name of God, would stay
here a minute longer than they had to?
—we shall be very glad to take all the
trouble off your shoulders. My principals
also told me to tell you that they will be
pleased to advance you anything up to
three thousand to tide you over the two
or three months that settlement will take.”
“Oh Lord!”' He stopped at the door-
way, and dived a hand into his pocket.
“I nearly forgot this—a letter for you.
Came enclosed in the one to the firm
enquiring about you.”
When the captain and Sutherland had
gone, Gibbons s_poke for the first time.
“Johnny—by God, I’m glad!”
Johns nodded. “It seems too good to
be true, Steve; but I suppose it is, all
right.” He straightened sudden 1 y. “Steve,
this makes it easy—about Flora, I mean.
She’ll get better now. If I have to get
a specialist from Sydney!” He jumped
ta his feet. “By God, there’s no one more
deserving of it than Flora! There’s a
quarter of it for her, Steve! But it had
better go into your name.” He laughed
excitedly. “It wouldn’t do for me to be
giving presents of money to another man’s
wife!”
Johns was in the clouds. He was already
spending his fortune —or some of it.
“Yes, that’s it! To Captain Gibbons,
as passage money for eight months!” He
clapped the other on the shoulder. The
gin sling and the good news had put a
sparkle in his eye, an eagerness, an almost
boyish glee, in his expression. He paced
up and down the stateroom. Every now
and then he chuckled. There were those
who had befriended him in his trouble —•
well, he could now befriend them, even
though two of them at least appeared to
have no troubles.
“Steve, I didn’t tell you—the Surf Queen
is in harbor here! I saw here only a while
ago. Etty Smith was there, and Michael
Varley. i’ve told you about him, haven’t
I? The 'doctor’ of the Surf Queen —the
cook who loved the owner’s daughter—
and who put me aboard the Arethusa?
God, the world’s a small place! It was
Michael Varley who gave me the note
that introduced me to Wooden Charlie!”
His voice dropped. “Wooden Charlie—who
took me in, off the gutter, you might
say”
He broke off suddenly. The light died
from his eyes, and he walked to the port-
hole. Without turning his head, he added
softly, “You know, Steve, if the money
would bring Charlie back again, I’d give
it up this minute.” And the other guessed
that Johns kept his head averted to hide
the tears that were in his eyes.
“Why worry, Johnny?” Gibbons’s voice
was gentle. He had known Wooden
Charlie, too. “I reckon Charlie’s happier
this way. He never had too bright a
time, you know Johnny. He was too good
—too decent, I mean—for his own folks,
the Chi-chis; and the white folks wouldn’t
stand for him.”
Johns nodded. “His life was Hell,” he
said simply, and Gibbons knew that he was
speaking from a knowledge more intimate
than any man had ever had of Charles
Readers of “Bulletin” serials will have a vivid recollection of Monty
Grover’s brilliantly written “Thirty Pieces of Silver.” In his stories Mr.
Grover is never conventional. Yet “Thirty Pieces of Silver” trod a familiar
path compared with “One Punch Patsy,” his latest novel, which will open
in these pages on September 7. One Punch Patsy is a pugilist, and the
story of his career is entirely a story of pugs and artists and their friends—
including Buff Cody, the trainer, one of the most picturesque and enter-
taining characters ever drawn by an Australian writer.
“One Punch Patsy” is going to have as large a circle of friends as any
serial ever printed by “The Bulletin.
Rymington Delarue Wynne. “His life was
Hell; but Charlie kept himself decent
through it all. He was a white than!”
“And that, Johnny, I reckon, is the
finest epitaph that he could have had or
wished for.”
Johns nodded. “Yes. Yes, he would have
liked to hear that.”
“Perhaps he did, Johnny.” The other’s
voice was unusually gentle. “Why not?
There may be something in this business
of life after death, and all that.”
“It’s an easy philosophy, Steve,” Johns
answered slowly; “but there’s no proof, is
there? Still, I’d feel better if I thought
that Charlie had heard me say that 1
can’t believe it yet! Forty-three thousand
—and out of that place! Why, it’s colos-
sal! And Varley, and Etty Smith —or
Etty Varley, I expect she is by now—they
must have some, too. They were just
as good to me —it was Etty who really first
set me on my feet at all. I was just about,
right out to it when they came along. And
then there’s Gabriel—the Archangel Gab-
riel! But he doesn’t need money. He’s
got more than he knows what to do with
now, I expect. But there’s another way I
can pay him back. And it would make
him happier than money could. It would
flatter his vanity.”
His voice died away. He was back in
Gabriel’s Heaven “And to-morrow I
shall be writing!” He remembered the
words, and the little shrug with which the
Italian had greeted them. But it was
coming true! The book would be pub-
lished some day—he knew that—and on the
front leaf there would be the inscription:
“To the ‘Archangel Gabriel’” Yes, there
was no doubt about it. It would give the
public something to puzzle over, that in-
scription ! And he could picture the
delight of Gabriel when the presentation
copy reached him!
“We must go and tell Flora!” he said
suddenly. He had almost forgotten that
she did not know. It would not be fair to
keep her waiting. The knowledge, would
almost certainly help her, too. Give her
still more spirit in the fight. There would
be no financial worry ahead of her and
her husband now. The Spindrift was a
negligible loss. They could afford to buy
a good many Spindrifts if they wanted
to, after he had seen the lawyers.
It was not as easy
to break the news
gently to Flora as lie
had thought. He
had intended to lead
up to it gradually, to
prepare her for it. The
young doctor had
been most insistent
that any sudden shock
or excitement was to
be avoided. And
then, after all his
precautions, he found
himself blurting it out
to her more like an
awkward schoolboy
than an M.A., Oxon! It came with a
sudden rush of emotion—she looked so
pale and fragile lying on the white pillows.
The pale-blue dressing-jacket that she wore
harmonised with the soft golden hair that
framed her face, so that she was ethereal-
ised.
A sudden spot of red appeared in each
pale cheek as the significance of the news
dawned on her, and she half-rose on one
elbow. But she fell back again quickly,
and her eyes closed.
“My God!” Johns was on his knees
beside the bed. “Flora, what’s the matter?”
He could feel Gibbons bending over,
above his head, and he knew that he was
staring agonisedly at the girl’s immobile
face.
Then, slowly, her eyes opened, and she
smiled. “It’s all right, Johnny,” she whis-
pered. “It was only that it was too won-
derful. Johnny, you’re rich! And you’re
cured! You won’t be wanting to waste it
—on cocaine!” She smiled again at the
idea of Johnny—or anybody—spending
forty-odd thousand pounds on cocaine.
“Johnny, it means England.... and Fay!”
The blue eyes searched his, and she nodded
as she saw the sudden light that sprang
to them. “But, Johnny, ten thousand—it’s
too much for us. Miles too much. We
couldn’t take it, could we, Steve?” She
turned appealingly to her husband. “It’s
too much altogether.”
“It’s nothing!” Johns had taken her
hand in his. “It’s nothing, I tell you,
Flora! Nothing could ever make up to
you what I owe you. You made me whole
again.”
She put her finger over his lips. “Johnny,
hush! It was just as much for my sake as
yours that I came on board the Spin-
drift with you. Don’t forget I could easily
have arranged for you to have gone alone—
if I had wanted to. Steve would have dohe
it for me if I’d asked him. But I wanted
to come and see you safely through.”
“Flora, 'please. I want you to get better.
And the money will help. Think of it—
you’ll be able to go just anywhere the
doctors advise. I’ll feel that I’ve paid
back just a little of what I owe you if
you’ll take it—to please me!”
Again his eyes searched hers. And she
nodded. “You mean that, Johnny! And
it’s dear of you. And to please you, we’ll
take it, Johnny darling.”
This time the “darling” was not said in
the same elusive whisper that twice before
it had been. It was said openly, courage-
ously almost, and Flora smiled at her hus-
band as she said it.
Johns, suddenly self-possessed again,
patted her hand. “And now,” he said,
“Steve and I can go ashore and make
arrangements for you.”
Chapter VII.
Ernest William Johns, M.A. Oxon.,
leaned against the rail of the lower deck
of the Sylvania. His eyes looked out un-
seeingly across the quiet waters to where
the horizon was slowly purpling in the
east. He was tired, mentally and physi-
cally. The two days that the Sylvania had
spent resting in port had been days of
business for him. There had been so much
to arrange—a dozen interviews; documents,
hastily glanced over, to be signed. But
now it was finished. Everything had been
adjusted.
His first tasks ashore had been entirely
altruistic, labors of love and gratitude.
First Flora. It was he who had ordered
the ambulance, arranged for the temporary
bed in the best hospital that the town
could muster. It was he who had sent the
steam launch puffing and snorting to the
liner’s side, and it was he who had sat
beside the stretcher-, with Gibbons on the
other side, during the trip ashore.
Flora had been so pathetically grateful.
She had insisted on talking, despite the
young doctor’s parting injunction. He had
stationed himself at the head of the accom-
modation-ladder, calling out, as the launch
turned her tail impertinently on the levia-
than: “No excitement, mind and no
talking!” Johns had watched him turn to
the second officer, and he could guess what
he was saying: “Nice girl, and an interest-
ing case. Damned interesting. Sorry I
couldn’t have seen her through.” But Johns
could not guess that the Second had
nodded, and with a brooding look in his
eye had answered: “M’m,” and then, cryp-
tically: “Funny thing, coincidences, aren’t
they?” The Second was a romanticist in
his own peculiar way; he found food for
thought in chance encounters.
Then there had been the hundred and
one things to arrange at the private hospi-
tal. The special milk supply, the order for
daily flowers....
It had been late afternoon when all that
had been arranged. But not too late for
him to pay a visit to the law firm of
Neidelsen and Strauss. And, although it
was closing time, and a golfing partner was
waiting for him on the links, Mynheer
Neidelsen himself had attended to his
client’s demands. A stenographer and the
head clerk had been kept back specially
in his honor.
Mynheer Neidelsen spoke the King’s
English fluently. “It is a very large sum
to dispose of so casually, Mr. Johns,” he
had told him. It hurt the lawyer to think
that this money which had been so care-
fully conserved for him was to be divided
so ruthlessly and rashly and impetuously.
“Twenty thousand pounds English! Why,
it’s a fortune in itself!”
“Quite.” .
Johns had been urbane, but immovable
in his purpose and very logical. “Quite.
And the other twenty-three thousand still
remains my fortune. Six times two'hun-
dred and thirty is thirteen hundred and
eight Twenty-five pounds a week. A nice
little’ income, and I shall probably never
spend half of it. My tastes are simple.”
Mynheer Neidelsen had shrugged pol-
itely. It was obvious that his client’s mind
was made up. He would see to it then
that the documents were ready the next
morning. And, with his client’s kind per-
mission, he would now get in his head cleik
and his stenographer. A few minutes only
it would take,, getting the particulars, names
and so forth, and then his client would be
free.
And the thousand pounds that Mr. Johns
wished for himself.- That would also be
ready in the morning. It was a pleasure
to expedite the legal business. After years
of exile it was but natural that Mr. Johns
would wish to get home again as quickly
as possible. He often sighed for his ovn
dear native land. (“Damned old hypo-
crite!” Johns thought sardonically. You
could never make half as much in Holland
—and you know it!”)
After the legal business he had taken a
car and rushed out through the lengthening
shadows to the windswept hill when’
Wooden Charlie lay buried. It was not m
the ordinary cemetery—Wooden Charlie
had chosen a spot of isolation for his last
resting-place. .
His tombstone bore his name m full—
Charles Rymington Delarue Wynne. And
the inscription on it was arresting as 1
was unusual. For it had been executed in
accordance with directions left in ms wil
“And I direct that my body shall be
buried in the plot of ground already owned
by me for that purpose, and that my tomb-
stone, the expense of which is to be de-
ducted from my gross estate, shall be in-
scribed as follows:
Charles Rymington Delarue Wynne.
Born April 24,- 1891. Died ■■■■
White men! An Eurasian lies here. An
Eurasian, to ivhom, as to all his sorrow-
afflicted kind , Death is the only comfort
that Life —unsought by him—can hold.
It was a stone whose poignant message
would strike new thoughtfulness into tns
minds of those who read it. A plea lot
the suffering generations, as yet unborn.
that must be the product of the white
man’s arrogance in exotic lands, it va,
a pity. Johns thought, that the messag
could not be broadcast to the world-and
yet, perhaps, it might, when he had writ-
ten his book. , , , , - Li.
From the graveside he had gone straight
to the Consulate. There he had found him-
self an important personage.
“It astonishes me,” the Consul assured
him. “‘Old Bullswool’ is not the sort ot
chap to bother himself much on anyone»
behalf—or he used not to be. I J l ,wm
a matter of fact, that young Willestau
worked the oracle. The letter we got from
him was almost tragic m lts anxiety to
have you located. He told us that he m
been putting advertisements in a dozen
world-wide papers ever since you dis-
aPJotadnodded. “Yes. I saw severall of
them while I was m Sydney. Bu 1 K
ferred not to answer them. One had one
pride—even in those ghastly days
“God knows how you pulled through-
The Consul had stared at him in admit a-
tl°T didn’t!” Johns was brutally frank
about himself. It gave him a vicariom
sense of pleasure to lash Ihimself lmscom
ful phrases. It eased the pain that tl
memory of Wooden Charlies grave had
“I didn’t! It was other peopj
who pulled me through. I was at mrhjt
gasp, mentally, morally and p
when I met-the Archangel Gabne
Through five courses he talked
tionally, and his matter-of-fact description
made the story more starkly vivid.


:
m
s*
%
m
R M
yt
o
a Se a
v ~ >\
V W 7 r
im
EXCURSION RETURN
FARES
FROM SYDNEY
First Saloon
£5O
Second Saloon
£42
Tourist Class
£32
(Subject to Exchange)
Nuwara Eliya, the Golfers' Paradise among the hills of
Ceylon, 6,000 feet above the sea, can be reached
after a short excursion trip by P. and O. steamer.
Golf can be enjoyed also at the intermediate ports of
Melbourne, Adelaide and Fremantle, and at Colombo.
These opportunities, with the invigorating change of
sea life, make an attractive holiday.
NARKUNDA (Ist and 2nd) Leaves Sydney September 9
CATHAY (Ist and 2nd) Leaves Sydney September 23
MOLDAVIA (Tourist) Leaves Sydney October 7
MOOLTAN (Ist and 2nd) Leaves Sydney October 21
and fortnightly thereafter
AGENTS IN ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND
X '
mm
“Good God, what a time you’ve had!”
The Consul was aghast that a man of
Johns’s mental calibre could have sunk so
low, and amazed with admiration for the
rehabilitation that was in his guest’s every
word and gesture. “Lord, what a story
you could write! De Quincey would be
eclipsed.”
Johns had laughed harshly at that. “De
Quincey be damned!” He banished the
romantic morphinomaniac with a contemp-
tuous hand. “There’s nothing of beauty or
enthralment in my story! Except the deeds
of other people! Beauty? Good God!
Dreams? Yes, damnable, soul-killing, sor-
did nightmares that were actually waking
dreams!”
What was he going to do when he got
back home, the Consul wanted to know.
Did he think he would go back to Oxford—
take up the threads again where he had
dropped them?
“I don’t know.”
It was a question that had occurred to
Johns himself more than once that day.
The money—Wooden Charlie’s money—
had altered the future. Or, rather, the pos-
sibilities the future held. On the liner,
before they had reached harbor, before he
had heard the news, there had been only
one thing possible. To get back to Eng-
land the quickest way he could, and try to
win his spurs again. But now things were
so much easier. There would be no need
to work, and, inevitably, for that very
reason, work was waiting for him if he
cared to take it. His old position was
available, “old Bullswool” had said, if he
cared to take it.
“I don’t know.”
Johns had stared at the Consul as though
he might be able to solve the problem for
him.
“I don’t know. Now that there’s no
need for me to work, there seems so much
work to be done. But I’m wondering if I
could ever settle down to the old clois-
tered life again. Four years of wandering
—it’s a long stretch. I have the feeling
that I’ll want to be off again in a few
weeks or months. The wanderlust, you
know.”
“I often think those University fellows
—the Dons, I mean, like ‘old Bullswool’—
don’t know what they’re missing. But per-
haps they like it.” The Consul shrugged
his incomprehension of such an attitude.
“Now, look at me. I was at school with
‘old Bullswool’—we were in the same class
at school, only he was always at the top
and I wasn’t. Then college together, and
we graduated on the same day. He had ten
times my brains, and yet he’s still in the
same old buildings—don’t suppose he’s ever
gone further than Devon for his holidays—
and he’s still getting about nine hundred
a year, I suppose. And I’ve been nearly
all over the world—at the ratepayers’ ex-
pense!—met all the people worth meeting,
and get a lot more money than he does.
And yet I suppose he’d hate this life.” He
emptied his glass philosophically. “Oh,
well, I suppose all life’s just like that.”
“Well, you’ve certainly had your fan-
share of ups and downs,” the Consul had
said a little later over the coffee and cura-
?oa. “But you should count yourself lucky
in that the ‘downs’ are all done with now.
You’ll never want to take on the cocaine
again, I suppose?”
“No, thank you! One Hell is enough for
one lifetime. And yet, now that it’s all
over, I don’t know that I’m altogether sorry
—in some ways—that I’ve been through
it. It’s taught me a lot of things. I’ve
seen how ‘the other half’ lives, and I’ve
learned that decency and honesty are not
the prerogative of the ‘classes.’ The masses
are every bit as decent, on the whole, as
the classes, and, in many ways, a damned
sight more so, if only because they haven’t
the incentive to be decent that we have.
Of course, there are exceptions; there are
to everything, to every generality. But I
don’t think, on a percentage basis, that the
exceptions are as numerous in the masses.”
But the Consul had not been in the mood
for sociology, and the conversation had
drifted away into other topics, none of them
sufficiently interesting to recall themselves
to Johns as he leaned over the rail of the
Sylvania, staring unseeingly at the still
waters. But later that night, when at
length he had made his escape from the
Consulate, he had found time to read in
leisure the letter that had come for him
from Clive Willestair, the young biophysics
man whose theory of metabolic changes had
been the indirect cause of his cocaine addic-
tion. It had read:
"Dear Johnny, —
“God knows if this will ever reach you.
But if utter misery on my part can help
it, it certainly will eventually. I’ve lived
in the depths of Hell ever since you went
away. God knows that sounds melodra-
matic, but God knows also that it is true.
When I think that it was all due to my
damned idea of ‘metabolism’—no need to
ask if you remember that theory, Johnny!
Lord, I’ve had advertisements running in
half a dozen different papers that reach all
over the English-speaking world for the last
three years, and never a word from you.
And now someone else is advertising for
you, too—and of ‘something to your advan-
tage: Johnny, all of us here are hoping to
God that they will find you. And ‘old Bulls-
wool’ has been a Briton. I went to him
years ago—just after you disappeared—and
'made a clean breast of my share in the
matter. He took it damned well, too. In-
stead of rating me up hill and down dale
-all he said was: ‘Yes. I can sec your point
of view.’ Imagine that! Johnny, you
must be a white-haired boy with ‘old BuUs-
wool,’ I’m thinking. The old boy is not
usually given to agitating himself over
minor Dons. God, Johnny, it breaks me up
when I think of it! Lord, what a fool I was
not to stop you taking that first sniff”....
There had been more of it too. Three
times Johns had read the letter through.
It. was a queer jumble of regrets and self-
recriminations, interspersed with odd bits of
news about the ’Varsity that brought a
strangely acute feeling of nostalgia to him
as lie read. But they were keeping his
position for him—after all those years of
silence. He might have been dead for all
they knew, but they had held his position
open for him in case they heard from him.
That was the part that stirred him most
deeply. Probably the fact that he was no
longer in need of that, or any other posi-
tion, brought it home to him all the more
dearly the attitude that those in England
—or at least those who understood—had
adopted towards him. They regarded him
as sinned against, not sinning.
The dinner, bugle recalled him to the
present. It would be his last meal ashore
or afloat in Zandavar. In two hours’ time
the Sylvania would be slipping her anchor-
age and turning her nose to sea, towards
the South, the first stage on his long home-
ward journey.
The meal was an ordeal. Although his
fellow-diners knew nothing of the time that
had gone before, they at least knew that
he had been taken off the Spindrift—and
unconscious. The narrowness of his escape
stirred them to an appreciation of the
Romance of Adventure. It gave them
vicariously an odd sense of thankfulness.
It might have been any one of them who
had been saved from a derelict sinking
hulk in mid-ocean. What did it feel like
to suddenly realise that one’s ship had
become a thing of danger and of menace,
instead of the faithful, sturdy craft that
defied the laws of gravity on the surface
of the ocean? And half a hundred other
questions, until the captain, at whose table
he was seated, both by virtue of his cabin
de luxe and his romantic advent, interposed
with a tactful but none the less “com-
manding” suggestion that perhaps the de-
tails. of the storm and of the hours of
danger were as yet too near in memory to
give anything but distress in their recapi-
tulation—a remark which earned from
Johns a glance of heartfelt gratitude and
relief. He was thankful when the six-
course meal was over, and he was able
once again to find his way to the lower
deck, a haven of refuge.
(To be concluded next iceek.)
Waiting.
Dawn, and the sea-fowl winging out of sight,
Across the sun-fire and the silver haze;
The sea is one long shudder of delight,
One ecstasy beneath his glittering gaze.
So many a morning have I watched the night
Put out her thousand candles in amaze;
Have watched the last bewildered star take
flight
Into the limbo of lost yesterdays.
Have watched—for what? I cannot name
aright
The wish with which imagination plays.
The promise and the luring lantern light
That ever round the coming corner sways.
Is it some happening (like a gallant knight
That sallies forth to win a lady’s praise)
Will break for me an enchanted lance of
light
Against grey melancholy’s grim arrays?
Or is it some rich promise, mine by right,
That still, though late in coming, Life
repays?
Ah. hasten, lest Too Late shall cancel quite
All debts and credits in my book of days.
VICTORIA
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
The Passing.
Autumn goes out
Across the wistful landscape fretfully.
I stand and watch her from the windy hill
While mottled teams
Come swaying down beneath the yokes, and
turn
Their listless eyes upon the roadside grass;
And by their side
The taciturn, big driver, with a face
Leatherned by Queensland suns, uncurls his
whip;
And underneath the load, in dust and shade,
A little speckled gamin of a dog
Trots patiently.
Autumn goes out.
Birds know ! I see
The slatey ones that rape the mulberries
Thrusting among the leaves like greedy
friais
Grasping the last of niggard alms;
And the red wrens
Dart, little frantic flames,
Among the myrtle-trees the month has gar-
landed
With trails of belladonna and ’mid globes
Of orange berries hedged about with thorns,
While, myriad tapers newly-lit
For this grave requiem,
The carmine salvia flares beneath the trees.
It seems to me that Beauty goes with her—
Is blotted from a tired and troubled world
That, like myself, will not know Youth
again.
But then
A little window opens in my soul
On dusty roads that wind out Hoya way,
And through the slanting light of afternoon,
Past waggons paiuted scarlet, and grey barns
And dusty yellow stacks.
Two little girls drift through the kurra-
jongs
In floppy hats and faded pinafores,
With dollies in their arms—
Two little ghosts of other days.
The landscape brightens momently,
Remembering!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


YOU’LL STOP, ANYWAY, BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
SILVER
EDGED
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Insist on “RAYBESTOS”—with the Silver
Edge, Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining .
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
fd
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
HOW TO STOP CAR-STARTER TROUBLES
fd
Everyone knows that awkward moment when the
car is in gear, already to go, and the engine stops.
What happens then? Right down with the clutch,
shift into, neutral, press the starter, down with the
clutch again into gear, and away. In the meantim
noises from the fellow behind and a fair chance or
stalling your engine again in a hurry to get away.
The Sutherland Easy Mesh Starter Switch push. or
pull type, on the dashboard saves all this,
touch with your left hand, without any shifting or
feet, and the job is done. Easily installed in ai
car with an automatic drive starting mechanism, u
is a positive boon to the busy motorist.
A special advantage is the double-contact construction. The first contact allows the startei
armature to rotate slowly, gently screwing the starter pinion into mesh. Only then does tnt
second contact allow full power to the starter. Thus, gear teeth cannot become jambed o
damaged. Costly repairs to starter parts and the ring gear are completely eliminated.
If you are not completely satisfied after a month’s use, return the switch and your mone.
will be refunded without question.
Footboard type switch can also be supplied, price 30/- plus 2/- postage.
WHEN ORDERING, STATE MAKE AND MODEL OF CAR.
JOHN ARNOLD
FACTORY
REP,
r> <•«*
PUSH OR PULL TYPE FOR
DASHBOARD CONTROL
Add 2/- Postage.
33-
HARDWARE HOUSE,
383 POST OFFICE PLACE, MELBOURNE, YIC
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Veteran trainer Chris O’Rourke has some
useful horses in. his Sydney stables. One
of them is Questionnaire (Legionnaire—
Initiative), whom he trains for “F. Smitli-
den.” Questionnaire looked a bit out, of her
class when Burracootboo and Rogilla beat
her at Warwick Farm on August 6, but she
is doubtless improving with racing, of which
she has had little. Anyway, she was too
speedy for 13 opponents in the first divi-
sion of the Flying Handicap at Canterbury
Park. Favorite at 7 to 2, she was out in
front early, and Lightfoot had only to shake
her up a bit for the filly to come away from
the grey Sarinch (7 to 1) and Promptitude
and Veneer (both well in the market), who
dead-heated for third. The six furlongs
were traversed in lmin. I3sec.
N.E.F. (2 to 1) clipped a quarter of a
second off Questionnaire’s time in the second
division and there was a gap of three lengths
between Booth’s three-year-old and Oratorian
(8 to 1) at the finish; Dunerc, also trained
by O’Rourke for “Smithden,” was a close
third. N.E.F. is very fast, and is in the
Epsom with 7st. 111 b., but six furlongs seems
to be as far as he cares to go. He was
ridden by Bartle. Oratorian will do better
at a mile, and may be worth following by
tote punters.
Maoriland got first and third in the Can-
terbury Handicap, but four of the seven
starters were from that country. Historic
had the steadier of 105 t,.; _ however, he is
one of the biggest horses in training, and
he finished best on tlie rails after Flinders
(last into the straight) had got on terms
<=iert: "Heavens. what punnv
Bumoei?- bars T
COW-CATCHER IDEA* OP
MIME"
: U A. PRECAUTION ASAINST
ROAO-Hoqs, l Suppose
Bert : * No, HIKERS ! '*
with him. The crowd signified its appre-
ciation of the giant chestnut’s performance
and of Roy Reed’s riding. Manawhenua was
a good third. They were all backed except
Eton Blue, who will not be neglected pre-
sently ; and King March proved another false
favorite. Ramrod ran a peculiar race; a bad
last approaching the home turn the first
time, he was up with the leaders when they
had gone another round; he wound up fifth.
Apparently he is not as good as was thought
a while ago, but he may require time. His-
toric has 9st. 61b. in the Metrop. The weight
will not trouble him, nor the distance, per-
haps; but he is in his ninth year, and has
had heaps of racing.
Newcastle sent a good three-year-old to
Randwick last spring in Johnnie Jason, and
may be as worthily represented in the next
A.j.C. Derby by Milantheon, by Pantheon —
Milan. Saddled up for the first division of
the Three-year-old Handicap and backed,
Milantheon found the distance, six furlongs,
too short, but came through at a great rate
when Pike saw an opening—to get third
behind Persian (Legionnaire or Spelthorne
—Pura) and Captivation, a gelded brother
to Gloriole, being by Heroic —Gloaming’s
Sister. The Captivation party, wh 0 had
backed their youngster at eights, entered a
protest, complaining of interference, but it
was dismissed, much to the satisfaction of
J. T. Jamieson, who trains Persian for
Major Kerr Smiley, and who hasn’t had
much luck this trip. Persian was backed
from S to 1 to 9to 2. There was interfer-
ence. but King Pin, the favorite, may have
suffered more from it than Captivation.
Another Maoriland-bred colt in Might
(Limond —Graciosa) shared the honors in the
second division with Heroic’s Hope. One
of Lorigan’s string, Might was one of the
favorites, whereas Heroic’s Hope was an
outsider.
New King’s price for the Ashbury Handi-
cap was rather astonishing, considering that
he had been running well and consistently
in superior company. Ho was up only 81b.
for his success at Warwick Farm on August
6, and one of those he defeated on that
occasion was Rosendo, an easy winner at
Rosehill the following Saturday. Yet
eights could easily be got, and the tote paid
11 to 2 —with two other divs. and only
eight starters. Perhaps it was thought that
New King would stop at the end of a mile.
Instead, after leading for that distance, he
came right away from the overboomed
favorite, Hampton Plane, and Orbpie. This
Page would rather have him in the Epsom,
with 7st., than much more fancied horses.
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Campbelltown Handicap: Burracootboo;
next, Questionnaire.
Hobartville Stakes; Milantheon; next,
Kuvera.
Warwick Stakes: Johnnie Jason; next,
Inflation.
Spring Handicap: Circus Star; next,
Version.
Glenlee Handicap: New King; next,
Oratorian.
Public form suggests that the Victorian
three-year-olds arc not of much account. At
Caulfield on August 1 divisions of a three-
year-old event were won by Green Island
and Ruach respectively. Saddled up for a
similar race at Flemington a week later
Green Island labored in the rear for the
greater part of the journey. He finished
gamely enough, but missed a place. Adam
Skirving, who trains for “S. A. Rawdon,”
took Ruach across to Adelaide, where the
Drake colt just squeezed home in the Guineas,
for which he was sent out at 2 to 1 on,
the tote dividend (for £1) being 30s. Oratory,
Sol Green’s handsome colt by Verbius, had
been runner-up to Ruach at Caulfield.
Punters reckoned that the outing would
bring him along, and they made Oratory
favorite at headquarters; but his display
was wretched.
Sol Green started Oratory against his
better judgment. The colt is heavily topped,
and soft going does not suit gallopers of that
type. Oratory met with interference at
the seven-furlong post. This lost him several
lengths, but the colt’s subsequent efforts
were disappointing. Protea, who captured
the division for which Green Island started
favorite, is by Equator (imp.). This stal-
lion also sired Median, winner of the second
division. Alan Currie, of the V.R.C. com-
mittee, brought Equator from England
and owns Median, who recorded a first, two
seconds and a third in his juvenile outings.
Alan Currie bred the dam of Median —Lady
of Lille, by Rizzio from Lilloise (imp.),
by Lemberg from Lolette, by Gallinule.
Pro tea was lucky to finish in front of Top
Hole, a colt by Heroic from Green Peach that
Holt trains for Kellow. Though not greatly
fancied by the stable, Top Hole would have
won with a clear passage from the home turn.
Top Hole’s dam is by Greenstead (son of
The Welkin) from Cygnea, by Tressady
from Lady Capulet. by Positano from the
dam of Lord Cardigan. He looks a far
better Cup proposition than Ivellow’s other
candidate, Heroic Prince, who finished second
to Slylook in the Highweight Handicap.
One of the best-looking three-year-olds at
Elemington on Saturday was Metallurgy, who
finished third to Median and Gigolo. He
belongs to King, the trainer of Sanballat, and
is by Rosscndalc from Calcite (imp.), by
Rock Flint.
George Jones is doing little good in Mel-
bourne with the team of thoroughbreds that
he brought across from M.L. for W. R.
Kemball. Of course,. the juveniles have yet
to face the starter, but Lady Pam, Act aeon,
Spearlad and Rulanut cannot “break the
ice.” Both Lady Pam and Spearlad com-
peted in the V-R.C. August Handicap. Sent
out a warm favorite, Spearlad was one ot
the last to finish. It transpired subsequently
that he had bled. The winner, Thrawn, a
15-to-l chance, is owned by H. W. Morton,
who used to have a big team at Flemington
but now restricts himself to one or two
horses.
$ $ # ***
Two of Australia’s big racing clubs have
totted up the ledger for the racing year
ended July 31. The A.J.C., which was
£26,000 down at the last balance, is catch-
ing up, this year’s deficit being only £b4o<.
Added money was reduced by close on
£30,000, that at Randwick coming down from
£97,000 for 15 days of racing the previous
year to £74,325, while a t Warwick Farm the
cut was from £18,550 for nine days to
£11,965 for eight days. Attendances fell oil
notably, and forfeits and sweepstakes also
dropped. The Randwick tote handled
£771.716 in 22 days, and Warwick Farm
£52,407 for eight days. State and Federal
Governments between them pouched £120,174
in taxes. The V.R.C. had better luck, finish-
ing up with a profit of £7395. Stakes dis-
tributed came to £71,573, making £3,393,177
since the club started. The big event of
the year was the introduction of the tote
at Flemington. It has proved an increasing
success, and has more than justified its in-
stallation. Revenue from the machines has
been devoted to paying for them and the
buildings, and it is intended to earmark this
money for that purpose only until the big
cost of installation is met.
* * * *
With the concurrence of the A.J.G. and
other racing clubs in the Sydney metro-
politan and provincial area, the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment last week decided to cut the number
of dates by 25 per cent, from January 1.
“Clash” meetings will be avoided but the
pony clubs will have no racing opposition on
six Saturdays. The detailed reductions are:
A.J.C., 21 to 20 Randwick meetings:
Warwick Farm meetings cut. from 9 to 8
days ; Rosehill, reduced from 13 days to 11;
Moorefield, from 9 days to S; Canterbury,
9 days to 8; Hawkesbury, the tw T o
day a to bo a Saturday and a Wednes-
day ; Menangle, 16 days to 12; Gosford, 16
days to 12; A.R.C. clubs, 72 days to 54;
trotting clubs, each 20 days to 12. Under
the new proposal the horse clubs will have
57 days and the ponies 54.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Fred Henneberry (list. 611 b.) made his
first appearance in Melbourne against Jack
Carroll (lOst. 81b.), and showed himself
every inch a fighter. Though Carroll picked
him off with lefts at long range, and closed
both his eyes, the 15th saw him still forc-
ing the fight, with 7000 spectators on their
feet cheering. Carroll got it on points.
* * * *
“D.J.”: One or two minor reforms are
needed at Sydney Stadium. For example, in
future fights between wrestlers the referee
should be dispensed with. No attention is
paid to his suggestions, and it must cost a
good deal to replace the shirt which gets
torn to pieces each time he officiates. The
joints should be awarded by an official sit-
ting with the photographer above the ring
as follows: —
Kicks (maximum points) 20
Bites „ „ 20
Butts „ „ • • .. .. .. 20
Histrionics (including groans, grunts, oaths,
sneers, snarls, spittings, etc.) .. .. 40
Total 100
Pressmen at the ringside should be issued
with gas-masks, saliva-proof trench coats and
steel helmets with spikes, and a special
device should be installed for the benefit of
Mi*. Hugh Ward and one or two more cap-
able of moving their chairs backwards out of
the danger zone upon a combatant being
thrown at them. With these modifications
the sport would become safer, as well as
more interesting, and bumper houses might
bo relied on.
$ * * *
King Elliott (lost. 131 b.) was too elusive
for Tom Lurich (list. 21b.) in the early
rounds of last Saturday’s wrestling at
Leichhardt, but a body-scissors made him
concede a fall in the third. The rough
Russian picked his opponent up bodily in
the sixth and won with a slam.
Footbrawl
Flouting the official forecast Melbourne’s
weather provided a golden afternoon for the
big League game—Carlton v. Collingwood.
at Victoria Park. The ground will hold
about 35,000 and it was packed; also the
play was fine, open and fast, but there was
little excitement. The Carlton lads got going
at once and kept going till they had scored
125 to Collingwood’,s 79. Carlton's high-
marking was superb, the position play and
co-operation of their forwards excellent and
their defence. solid; whereas the Magpies
fumbled, their forwards bunched continually
and their backs lacked foresight. But on
the day no team could have beaten the
Blues, and if they can hold that form the
premiership is theirs. Out at Essendon the
“Same Old” put up a great fight and
downed South Melbourne by 90 to 8(5; while
Richmond piled up a mountain of 112 points
to Hawthorn’s 45; and Geelong erected a
Kosciusko -of 1.68 to Fitzr'oy’s 54. North
Melbourne beat Melbourne by 118 to 93,
and Footscray bested St. Kilda by 71 to
65. ' *
The final trial match to decide the selec-
tion of the Australian Rugby Union team
for South Africa, played at Sydney C.G. on
Saturday between N.S.W. and the Rest
of Australia, was won by the home side,
22-20. As try-getters, the Welshmen proved
superior, scoring six major points to three,
Ross converting two of the tries. Doneley
converted two of the Rest’s tries and kicked
a penalty goal, while Bennett dropped
a field goal. A remarkable display
by the St. Joseph’s schoolboy Beaton, in the
early match between G.P.S. and the Military
College, made him a warm favorite for a
place in the touring backs, if available. He
is a hefty youth as well as a clever one.
The second-last round of the Sydney
Rugby League competition saw South Syd-
ney with a two points lead and only St.
George to meet this week before the semi-
finals. The Red and Green look like taking
yet another premiership. At the Sports
Ground, the leaders liarl an easy win from
Eastern Suburbs, scoring 14-2, in a game
in which forward Treweeke was übiquitous.
Of the other matches, Western Suburbs had
little trouble with St. George at Earl Park,
winning by 23-16. University suffered yet
another knock-back, this time from Balmain,
the Tigers winning 14-7. Over the water
Newtown defeated North Sydney on the
latter’s own ground, 18-8.
*■■■***
The third test between the English foot-
ballers and Maoriland was played at Auck-
land and resulted in a narrow win for the
tourists by 20-18. It was a desperately hard
game and the condition of the travellers was
the deciding factor.
(Continued on next page.)
The blue ribbon of Australian golf, the
open championship, was decided on the
Seaton course in Adelaide at the week-end.
the- winner turning up in M. J. Ryan, the
Victorian amateur. Ryan’s rounds were ib.
75, 71, 74. The runner-up was Fergus
McMahon (S.A.), only a stroke behind the
winner.


MURDOCHS
W
A £5/10/- Suit
to Measure,
£
89
Here is a superlative quality
Suit to Measure direct from the
manufacturer—and with a
handsome cash saving! These
Suits are deftly fashioned in
Murdoch’s own workrooms
from excellent quality All-wool
Worsteds and Pure Indigo
Dyed Serges. Faithfully tailored
to your measures and
individual require-
ments for
£3/18/9
£6/6/- Suits
To Measure, <
£4/1 5/6
A peerless selection of new
season’s latest colored Tweeds
and Worsteds, also Pure Indigo
Dyed Serges. Faultlessly
tailored to your individual
measures at this splendid con-
cession in price.
»
Other Unique Suiting
Values,
£5/13/9, £6/5/-,
£6/1 96
♦
Patterns FREE.
Do you desire patterns? Write to
Desk “R” for a FREE selection. No
obligation whatever.
We pay freight.
Kindly write to Desk “R”
Murdochs Ltd
SYDNEY v;
■WHERE THE GOOD SUITS ARE ”
Footbrawl
vr “1 lotham ’; There is a strong move in
Melbourne in the direction of standardising
the rules of Australian football, which are
interpreted variously in different States.
One extraordinary feature is the wide varia-
tion in the size of playing areas. The Rugby
and Soccer codes lay down strict dimensions
which may not be departed from. The Aus-
tralian rules enjoin that the distance be-
tween the goalposts shall not be more than
200 yards or less than 150, the width t 0 be
not more than 150 or less than 100. Of
the 24 Melbourne ovals used by the League
and the Association, no two are alike. The
longest is Footscray’s, 198 x 145. Sand-
ringham has the smallest, 160 x 120. The
rules and interpretations are just as vari-
able and confused.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The bailiffs are in on the
Brighton (Vic.) football club, one of the Asso-
ciation string. The club owes the Elsternwick
trust £2O for rent, and that bowelless body
has chased it off the premises. Last week
certain of the burgesses of Brighton attended
on the trustees, much as their long-ago
exemplars of Calais made obeisance to
Edward 111, and begged for mercy. The
club was broke and there wasn’t enough
coming in weekly to pay costs, let alone the
players. There was no merciful Queen to
beg indulgence on this occasion, however,
and so far the trust’s answer has been a
lemon.
* * * *
The prettiest and cleanest football in
N.S.W. is played by the Great Public
Schools. The season has ended with that
great football school St. Joseph’s head of
the competition for the third year in suc-
cession, and with many victories in the past
to its credit. St. Joseph’s also downed the
Combined G.P.S. in the winding-up match
of the season, and as they won the “Head
of the River” boatrace as well this year,
they are feeling well pleased with themselves.
* * * *
The first of the Rugby Union trial matches
for the South African tour in Sydney was
a washout. The Queensland combination
ran all over the pick-up N.S.W.-Victorian
side, winning by 46 to 5. The Composite
backs had little hope against the vigor of
THE BRIGHT SIDE OF IT.
FIRST SECOND: “Well, it mighter bin worse.”
SECOND DITTO: “Wot d’yer mean?”
FIRST SECOND : “’E mighter bin ’it through the floorin’.”
the attack, and it was hard to judge their
capabilities. One man who made a good
reputation in face of difficulties was the
Westralian five-eighth, Max Carpenter. Very
nervy at first, and not well served by
scrum-half Taylor, he warmed up and was
playing a dashing game at the end, showing
great speed and a flair for slipping through
the defence. His try was a gem and he
well merited selection for the second trial.
* * * *
“Rogeia”: When the inhabitants of
Samarai played football the other day
against the crew of a visiting tramp, it is
good betting that many a Papuan old-timer
turned in his last, long sleep. Papua has
enjoyed many diversions in its time, but
football has rarely been one of them. For
one thing the island is so small that naviga-
tors seeking it are always worrying if the
dot on the chart is Samarai or a flyspeck.
There is a recreation field in the middle of
the little town, and here the game was
played. It was Soccer, of course. The
place is too small for Rugby, for a good
drop-kick from either end of the ground
would land the ball well out in China
Straits, where the currents are so strong
that there would be a small chance of
recovering it. But I nearly forgot. There
were three matches, and Samarai won two.
Racquet and Bawl
“Milton”: Though defeated in the inter-
state match with N.S.W., the Queenslanders
had all the better of the State champion-
ships played in Brisbane. Moon this time
turned the tables decisively on young
McGrath by again taking the State
singles. The women’s single/ went to Mrs.
AVestmacott, once the mercurial Dot Ilood
who beat her fellow-State player, Mrs.
Molesworth. McGrath won out in the junior
singles, and a Queensland-N.S.W. combina-
tion, Mesdames Molesworth and Butten-
shaw, took the women’s doubles. The men’s
doubles were won by Moore and Thompson,
who beat Donohue and McGrath 2 sets to l!
Two Queensland pairs fought out the mixed*
doubles, Cummings and Mrs. Westmacott
prevailing over Moon and his sister.
* * $ *
“Det”: Auy idea that the Australian
Davis Cup team would be asked to return
y' a America-—} t was at first suggested that
they should do this to take part in the
National championships—has been dispelled
by the announcement that the party is com-
ing back direct in two sections. The Craw-
fords are due in Melbourne on September 26
in the Ormonde, while the rest will not
make Australia until October 4.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: To those not en-
tirely obsessed by tennis, nothing is so in-
teresting as the difference of opinion among
the experts as to who have been the greatest
players in the world. Given ten experts,
as many ranking lists will be published, all
differing entirely from each other. There
has been a surfeit of this sort of thing in
England, the latest sage being Gordon Lowe,
once a fair performer himself. Of the best
ten he gives Tilden first place. Next comes
Norman Doherty, who last won the cham-
pionship of England 30 years ago. How a
player of over a generation ago can be com-
pared with the moderns with any certainty
is impossible to understand. Brookes comes
third, and after him Johnston, R. F. Doherty,
Wilding, Lacoste, Cochet, Larned ana
McLoughlin. It is a lunatic list, and the
placing of the French champions seventh
and eighth suggests the moon was full when
it was compiled.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Marino”: The preliminary tussles prior
to the actual Australian golf championships
in Adelaide provided a surprise or two. In
the inter-State tourney, Victoria was ex-
pected to walk all over South Australia. It
was the other way round, the Wheatfielders
winning 5 matches to> 2. Among the Vic-
torian slain were the mighty Ivo Whitton,
downed by W. S. Rymill, and H. L. Wil-
liams, Australia’s amateur champion, who
fell to R. Sawers. Subsequently the
not-much-faneied N.S.W. side outed South
Aus. in its turn by 5 to 2. R. 11. Betting-
ton’s defeat of Rymill was the star turn of
this show. In the professional inter-State
tourney the Welshmen were beaten by Vic-
toria, which also' accounted for South Aus.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: The first of the Australian golf
championships to be played at the big meet-
ing in Adelaide, the foursomes, was won by
the Victorian-Tasmanian combination, Ivo
Whitton and Len Nettlefold, who finished
three strokes ahead in a field of 20 pairs.
Their rounds were 73 and 80. Bettington and
Apperley (N.S.AV.) were second with 156,
while another composite team, Williams, of
Victoria, and Rymill, of South Australia,
got a place with 157. Whitton figured in
the foursomes in the curious happening of
1927, when he and Legh Winser tied with
Alec Russell and F. Headlam, and both pairs
were disqualified for playing with the wrong
ball, no title being awarded.
* * * *
“Seaton”: The annual meeting of the Aus-
tralian Golf Council in Adelaide had to deal,
among other matters, with applications from
Kooyonga (Adelaide) and Kingston Heath
(Melbourne) for official endorsement of their
links as championship courses. The appli-
cations were turned down on the ground
that there were already five championship
courses in three States. It was also notified
that there was no hope at present of a cham-
pionship meeting being held in Queensland.
The excuse is a feeble one. Britain must
have at least 20 championship courses,
while four of Australia’s five are
between Melbourne and Sydney. A fair
thing would be for Melbourne to hand
over one of her “licenses” to Tasmania, while
Sydney could follow suit with Queensland.
Beth States can furnish courses up to all
championship requirements.
* * * •
“Hoyiake”: London golf clubs have been
complaining bitterly of the craze for night
golf during the summer, the twilight lasting
up to 10 o’clock in fine weather. City
workers are able in many instances to get
going by 6 o’clock, and this gives them at
least three hours’ golf they would otherwise
i e c^u^s > 011 the other hand, are met
with the trouble and expense of catering
maintaining the club’s staff for long
after the usual hours, while the employees
are adding their kick. Some clubs are
accepting the inevitable, and one has made
a success by serving 9 o’clock dinners three
nights a week during the summer. Others
are keeping dining- and refreshment-rooms
open as late as 11 p.m.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz” : There is a chance of Maoriland’s
Ninety-mile- Beach being the scene of a
world s speed attempt yet. Captain Alastair
Miller is out to break Malcolm Campbell’s
figures of 254 m.p.Ji., and may tackle the job
at Daytona or in Maoriland. All depends
on the time by which his new car is ready.
This has been designed by Captain Irving, who
planned Segrave’s “Golden Arrow,” and has
guaranteed it will reach at least 285 m.p.h.
Jr the car is finished too late for Daytona,
Miller will try his luck on the Ninety-mile.
Malcolm Campbell, who is to attempt to beat
his own record at Daytona in February, has
also hinted that he may have a go in the
Shivery Isles.
* * * *
“Holdfast”: This year’s record for deter-
mination, pigheadedness, or however you like
to take it, should go to M. Decot, a French
hotelkeeper. Some time ago he set himself
the task of motoring 100,000 kilometres
(62,138 miles) at the rate of 550 a day.
This he did, but when he asked the French
motoring authorities to certify to his feat
all he got was the raspberry. Nothing
daunted he began the job all over again, this
time bespeaking official recognition. The
observers were told that the car should not
exceed 80 kilometres per hour, and that the
average speed for a day’s run must not be
more than 60. The run was from Paris to
Lyons and back daily, 585 to 590 miles per
day. Lecot carried out his self-imposed task
in 105 days. He is 54, and the endurance
displayed during the long and monotonous
job is not the least remarkable feature of
the business.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Brisbane voted the cycling
at the Velodrome thrilling. The star turn
was the six-day race; the verdict went to
the Lamb-Standen combination, with one lap
ahead and 561 points. The Queensland
team, McLennan and Thomas, was second
with a lap to the good and 275 points. In
third place were the Victorians, Opperman
and Fitzgerald, with 9001 points. This pair
would probably have gained the lap lead
which would have given them victory but
for a collision in which Fitzgerald was in-
volyed. They made amends in subsequent
racing. Opperman won the 10-mile motor-
paced event in 15min. 23 4-5 sec., it being
discovered at the finish that he had ridden
a lap over the distance. His partner easily
won the five miles scratch, beating Standen,
in lOmin. 28 2-ssec.
* * * *
“Roller”: Cecil Walker, the N.S.W. cyclist,
who has shown so prominently in America,
where is now the all-round and sprint
cycling champion, will be seen in action in
Australia next October, and will ride at
Sydney Velodrome. A syndicate has leased
the ’drome and Walker will be only one of
many big attractions, as he was when here
a couple of years ago. Two or three Ameri-
cans will accompany him, and the promoters
hope to get some of the Continental riders,
including the world’s champion, Falck-
Hansen. Walker is the only Australian to
win the American double title, and he has
won the all-round championship for seven
years in succession
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: Final revision of the Olympic
points scores shows that America’s total was
799£, while Italy jumped to 300. Australia rose
to 50, retaining twelfth place. Canada was
tenth with 99, and scores of the other
Dominions were : South Africa, 41; Ireland,
26 ; Maoriland, 14; the Indian Empire, 10.
Britain’s final tally was 146. which brought
her to eighth place. In the contest between
the United States and the Empire, the fifth
of the series, which followed on the Olympiad,
Golding, Barwick and Hillhouse turned out
for Australia and Savidan and Lovelock
for Maoriland. There were 10 events and
U.S A. won by six to four.
“The Gaffer”: One special lesson driven
home fb the hilt at the Olympiad was that
it is a waste of time and money sending
overseas track athletes who have learned to
run on grass only. They invariably fail on
the much' faster cinders. Writer has
preached, Cassandra-like and with as much
success, for years the necessity of laying
down cinder tracks and training our men
to get the extra pace out of them. In the
days of the old professional Sheffield handi-
caps cinder tracks were common throughout
Australia. There is no reason, save the in-
difference and incapacity of athletic authori-
ties, why they should not he so to-day.
• * * *
“Shinty”: Maoriland’s hockey team ended
up the inter-State and international car-
nival in Sydney by giving an Australian
team selected from five States the father
of a hiding. The All Blacks scored 7 goals
to nil and were merciful at that. The visi-
tors were well tuned up by their tour of
Queensland and Western N.S.W., and made
the opposition look like a rabble.
* * * *
“Splash”: The Australian Amateur Swim-
ming Union has invited the three Japanese
swimming heroes of the recent Olympiad,
Miyazaki, Kitamura and Kiyokawa, to visit
the Commonwealth next season. It is also
intended to invite Helen Madison, the flying
American swimmerette. but if a cabled an-
nouncement that the lady is to turn profes-
c,,°na] is correct, it will be good-bye to all
that.
• • * *
The death in Brisbane of Arthur Alexander
Baynes was a shock to the Queensland athletic
community. As a sculler, he was one of the
best amateurs Queensland has turned out,
being for some years the undefeated cham-
pion of Queensland, while he won the Aus-
tralian champion sculls in 1920 and 1926.
In 1922 he went to England to compete in
the Diamond Sculls at Henley. He won
through to the semi-finals, being beaten by
the ultimate winner. Though he retired
from big rowing some years ago the late
champion took a keen interest in the sport
and also in golf. He was only 33.
* * * *
“Outlander” : I note from the cables that
one Cameron made an astonishing debut in a
big English schoolboy match as a googly
expert. He is eligible for Somerset, a county
which is supposed to be the birthplace of
St. Patrick, and the county is preparing to
get its claws on him. Enthusiastic cricket
writers are already holding him up as a
representative of England in the near future.
It seems highly probable, for he has one
important qualification: he was born, not
m England, but in the West Indies.


A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
French Consul Dussap made at least one
person think of Agatha Christie’s famous
Hercule Poiret. One suspects that he
“arranges the little grey cells” very carefully
and neatly. H'is little wife wore black satin, its
cut-away back being strapped at intervals
with the satin. America’s Consul-General
Caldwell and his wife, who had only arrived
by the Monterey in the morning, the popular
Segaerts and the Consuls for China and
Czecho-Slovakia were others well looked after
by tall W. G. Layton, whose wife sported
black chiffons and Irish lace. And speaking
of lace reminds one of a ravishing cape of
Brussels Duchess worn by Mrs. G. V. Oldham.
Douglas Mawson never hunted for the South
Pole as ardently as fair admirers hunted for
him at the Government H'ouse garden party
last, week. Ladies in new spring millinery
almost sprinted along the paths when some-
body said “I believe that’s him over there
near the laurel bush.” One girl, peering into
the basin of the fountain, muttered “I’m
dying to see Douglas Mawson,” but as far
as this Letter observed all the waters ren-
dered to her gaze was a plump goldfish. A
woman in an all-too-heavy fur coat seemed
to think he was a species of native bear,
for every time she said she’d like to see
him she peered into the tree tops. It was
the one diversion the party offered in addi-
tion to talking and walking with the few
scientific stars and their satellites. There
was a band which through brazen throats
declaimed the National Anthem to the
closely-folded grey; sky of the day. This
was to greet the vice-regal foot as it touched
the green grasses of the lawn. With Sir
Philip were Hubert Murray and his
wife. They are staying at Govern-
ment House, and helped to receive the
guests, she, as usual, finishing her frock-
ing with a spray of flowers. The Profes-
sorial Mungo MacCallums and Acting-Pro-
fessor Gibson and his wife were early
arrivals, as was the picturesque David Car-
inent. The Walkoms were there, and the
impressive Von Wilier and Sarah Hynes and
Mrs. Muscio. George Julius and his lady
and the Bradfield couple, were others at the
tea tables, gay with their lilac and daffodil
clothes. An almond-tree stood in beauty.
Mrs. Woodruff and Dr. Georgina Sweet, from
Melbourne, Mrs. Messmer, who knows so
much about orchids. General Anderson’s
briglit-eyed wife and Miss Crowdy helped to
put color into the afternoon.
This pretty girl has a determination that
should land her among the well-known
Shaw unloosed the cage of his brain and
out flew his thoughts into the Royal.
Strange birds, these! Sinister as vultures,
inuocent as doves, chattering as magpies,
proud as peacocks; brilliant as birds of Para-
dise. They perched for a second on the
actors’ lips, they fluttered about the brain
and the imagination, their wings beat
against the emotions, till the mind became
a soldiers’ camp, a jungle, noisome with
undergrowth, or a quiet field in France
where a handful of sheep grazed and a coun-
try girl lifted her mind to God. Color blazed
on the stage—the scarlet of churchmen, the
ermine and purple of courtiers, the gold and
crimson of tapestries, the pride of pennants,
the flash of sword, the glint of armor, the
white of the Inquisitor’s robe; and here
came Sybil Thorndike as Joan the Maid,
first in a shabby doublet, then shining in
the silver one in which she had crowned
the Dauphin within Rheims Cathedral.
The Royal was crowded to the topmost;
row of the gallery for the opening on Satur-
day night, and the audience has never been
a better-dressed one. Here were the silver
and gold of lame, marcelled heads shining
above white fur coats, pinks and greens,
blues and burgundies prisoned in chiffons
and satins; the lights caught the glint of
jewels. Up in the front row of the circle
sat Sir Philip Game with Rosemary and
the boys, the Hubert Murrays, Miss Crowdy,
“Gift',” and Gift’s mother. In the stalls, Mrs.
Sep. Levy in sea blues added another touch
of the marine with her pearls; but Mrs.
Spencer Brunton’s jewels were the most
notable —she wore diamonds and pearls
generously. With her were the Eric Law-
sons, Mrs. Moreing and Oswald Cheeke;
Mrs. Frank Albert gave uplift to a whole
row by her ermine cloak; Nan Garvan was
among the handsome ones; the Jimmy
Bancks couple were there, and the E. J.
Taits. Eadith Walker, the J. B. Dicksons
(she was Prudence Vanbrugh), the Mayoral
Walders, Captain Feakes and his wife, Dot
Brunton, Mrs. William Macleod and Mrs.
John Dailey, Fairfaxes and Hugheses helped
fill the front stalls, as did the bored tall
man who brushed against this Letter coming
out, and who was saying languidly to his
wife “Well, I’ll own it’s too damn clever
for me!”
This Letter wonders if Dame Sybil car-
ried the six foot or so of floral star, a la
Tosca, around to her party at Romano’s
after the show. A Sydney woman once told
the writer that in New York one night
after the opera the leading woman delighted
the waiting crowds by walking from the
theatre, using as a directoire cane three
immensely tall American Glory roses —
whether all the length was stem or owed
a bit to the florist’s art could not be dis-
cerned.
At least a royal drawing-room at Bucking-
ham Palace seemed to be indicated by the
amount of bunting draped about the por-
tals of the Royal Empire Society’s home
last Thursday evening. But it was merely a
friendly gesture to Sydney’s Consuls-General
and their wives. “You can’t miss the Con-
sular ladies,” one member of the house
committee whispered to this Letter; “each
is carrying a bouquet.” But so was Mrs.
Feakes, and so was Hubert Murray’s lady,
and as for the sprays of flowers pinned on
shoulder-strap or on what the old ballads
referred to as the bosom, they were numer-
ous enough to be bewildering.
The crowd was terrific—they stood on one
another’s heels in the two reception-rooms
and bulged into the corridor, where an orches-
tra played meltingly till the night was
drenched with pittosporum, and old dreams
seemed to run in past the awnings. But
the humans preferred to listen to their own
voices, for this was a talking party. If
there had been any intention of its being a
walk-about, that was soon a dead hope.
Only one lady negotiated the crowds success-
fully. She quietly and persistently moved
forward with a movement suggestive of a
swimmer doing the breast stroke.
Spears of gladioli stood erect and wattle
stirred goldenly behind Hugh Denison and
his lady, who did the honors. He makes a
■ fine host, and she was a striking figure in
mulberry laces, against which she clasped
her bouquet of violets and camellias. Hubert
Murray’s wife, in grey and black chiffons,
was one of the night’s attractive figures.
singers of our
times. She is
Daphne Lowe
and in be-
tween her
day’s labors
(she’s on the
staff of a city
t y p e w riting
firm) studies
singing with
Mrs. Roland
Foster. When
grand opera
was coming
to Sydney,
Daphne made
up her mind
to be in the
chorus, and
then she
thought she
might as well
aim at small
parts, and
eventually Sydney heard her as_ Musetta.
Her lyric voice and joyous acting found
favor with the audience, and not the
least of the applause came from the girls
and boys of her own firm, who had bought
up £25 worth of tickets to give their friend
their moral support. Dorothy Welding made
the picture.
James Edmond, The Bulletin’s former
editor, and one of Australia’s few humorists,
has acquired a new son-in-law. His second
daughter, Dorothy, has married Geoffrey
Molony. The two are trying their luck in a
garden—well, a 74-acre orchard block at
Kurrajong.
Warriors of the sea, air and land, glitter-
ing with medals and varicolored in their
uniforms, turned the Wentworth into the
merriest place in Sydney on that night of
last week when they met for the United
Service Ball. This was the tenth birthday
of the shivoo, and changes that have nothing
at all to do with uniforms or place or power,
but only with Time, could be noticed by the
observant; however, the scene was set for
gaiety, and became very spirited when Sir
Philip Game entered the ballroom to a fan-
fare of trumpets. Gunners, along with
sailors, dressed spick and span in their navy
best, were scattered pictorially about the
landscape, and one of the former announced
the guests to Captain and Mrs. Feakes. She
suggested a nocturne with her night-sky-blue
satin frock and her posy of violets; and she
presented three debs.—Betty Shannon, Beryl
Davis and Moira Southwell-Keely—to his
Excellency with a smile, soothing as balm to
the youngsters. Rear-Admiral Dalglish was
in their party, and the Brigadier Heritage
couple, she in sapphire chiffons, were in the
official party, as were Captain F. C. Bradley,
of the Canberra, and his wife. The puffed
sleeve and bustle of the moment were worn
by Mrs. F. Daniell. The puffs were of
taffeta, while pink Irish crochet formed the
frock. Sadie Budge sported sky-blue chif-
fons ; almost the same shade was worn by
Elaine Moffitt, who was there with her fiance.
Commander G. Hutcheson. Mrs. Sefton
Cullen was another wearer of blue, and
Cherie Davies was one of the bright young
things who danced till morning.
Popular Jean Oheriton will no sooner
have finished her labors for the International
Bull than sin
has to plunge
into the pre-
paration ii o r
the Bush Nurs-
ing Associa-
tion’s Fair in
October. This
is to be held
in the ground -:
of Government
House, and
will rage gaily
for two days
and two nights.
The girls from
Doone, under
Miss Cheri-
ton’s direction,
are running
the smokes and
ar r a nging a
performance by
the Doone
Dramatic
group for the good of the cause. The photo,
is from The Bulletin photographer.
The Mayor’s reception to Sybil Thorn-
dike turned after all into a party hostessed
by the Mayoress in her own rooms. Sybil,
evidently not superstitious, took her intro-
duction to Sydney id greens—Robin Hood
greens, the scarf lined with palest gold. She is
fair, has a sly and merry glint in her blue
eye, and is far better-looking than her press
photos, suggest. But her voice, despite its
young and vibrant note, had a hardness as
though it had been left out in the wind. She
has a width between the eyes and an open
gaze that make you think what a satisfac-
tory Rosalind she’d be. She stood, bubbling
greetings, her hands gay with flowers and
a yellow purse, next to Mayoress Walder,
who in her blue-and-white checked suit and
Breton sailor looked more than ever like a
happy schoolgirl. Sybil’s husband, Lewis
Casson, content to be overshadowed, was
moored alongside. Other members of the
company stood about —not conspicuous for
good looks, but with interesting stage names
like Chevalier and Martin-Harvey among
them. There’s a Martin-Harvey, junior, and
liis wife in the company, and Kathleen Rob-
inson has come back home to Sydney with the
players. Kathleen, it will be remembered,
did a lot of good amateur work before she
went to England, one of her best efforts being
in Ashley Duke’s “Man with a Load of
Mischief.”
Well, sherry and biscuits were passed
around, and the Mayor welcomed Sybil, who
responded, first of all with the thoroughly
unoriginal remark of her coming to Sydney
being a “dream fulfilled.” If she only knew
how often we have heard it put that way.
she’d have thought out a new method of
attack. Sir Hugh Bell (of Dorman Long’s),
Maude Royden and Bernard Shaw were three
who urged ter to come to Australia. Sir
Hugh, she said, had even one night at
dinner made a plan with the peppers and
salts, the knives and forks, and had said,
“Now, here’s so and so, here’s the princi-
pal street”.... Well, well!
Alexander Gordon’s lady in berry-reds
made an attractive bit of color in the crowded
room. Mrs. Spencer Brunton, with good-look-
ing daughter Mrs. Moreing and Oswald
Cheeke, was tall enough to stand in the
background. Syd Ure Smith and Leon Gel-
lert paid their respects; the E. J. Tait
couple were there; the Dean of Sydney and
Mrs. Talbot represented the Church, while
Miss Crowdy and “Giff” from Government
House and Deputy-Premier Bruxner might
be said to have represented the State. Bright-
cheeked Kathleen Trefle came under her
mother’s wing, and Mrs. Dettman and her
scholarly husband looked in in the interests
of literature; Rabbi and Mrs. Cohen,
Professor Mungo MacCallum and his lady
and Mrs. Russell Gillies (who was Muriel
Thorndike and is a relation of Sybil) were
among the enthusiasts. The Bakers, of
King’s School, and Robsons, of “Shore,”
were among the invited; and Hubert
Murray’s lady had an extra warm clasp of
the hand because of brother-in-law Gilbert.
The old book and print shop which Mrs.
W. Epps will run during the Prince Alfred’s
Appeal Week is already promising to
carry a unique stock. Doris Fittou
will give a performance of tlie Inde-
pendents towards the expenses, and some
rare prints and bits of china are being sent
in from old friends of the great hospital at
Camperdown. The scheme was first spoken
of last week at a dinner given by the “Women
of Sydney Group” to the wives of Sydney’s
Consuls. Departing from the usual plan
there were Adams among the Eves; one of
them, knight James Parr, of Maorilaud.
treasures among his memories the fact that
he once saw novelist Rebecca West home
from cartoonist Dave Low’s house in Lon-
don. Prince Alfred’s W. Epps and A. 11.
Utlier were others at the top board, where
Mrs. Zalapa’s (she’s wife of Mexico’s Con-
sul) real Mexican scarf was indeed “a rain-
bow round her shoulders.”
While the Fleet’s out of port, we’ll just
have to console ourselves with those Breton
sailor hats The big grey warships were
getting all ready for sea last week, and one
of the preliminaries is the discharge of social
obligations, so the Penguin gave an after-
noon party, which the Australia and Can-
berra followed up with dances. The after-
noon narty brought out middle-age; the
dances leaned to the juvenile, and young
things like Margaret Honey, the Connollys,
Joan Wilkinson and Rosemary Shepherd pre-
dominated.
Banjo Paterson’s niece Isabel Huntley
opened a show of her work at the Grosvenor
Galleries last week by the grace of Miss
West from Frensham (of which school
Isabel was a pupil). Miss West said the
prologue, and proved that even brilliant school
principals are human and in the stress of
speech-making may not be word perfect in
their quotations. ' It was a friendly crowd
that filled the sunlit room, the clever artist
making a graceful picture in her ankle-length
flower-spattered muslins and shady spring
hat.
Brian Fitzpatrick, leader-writer on Sydney
“World,” will marry Kathleen Pitt, younger
daughter of Vic. Under-Treasurer IL A. Pitt,
on August 27 at St. Patrick’s Cathedral,
Melbourne. The pair both took their B.A.’s
at Melbourne Uni., and Kathleen went on to
take an honors degree at Oxford, while her
future fiance was chasing news in Fleet-
street. Brian is the author of “Songs and
Poems” which saw print last year.
Bananaland fritters: —
Who said Depression? Attendances at the National
Show were 11,000 in excess of last year’s, and the
takings were £427 more.
Mrs. H. Bonncy and Kingsford Smith had several
pow-wows about air work before she left for her
solo flight round Australia, which took her to
Wyndham at the week-end. Mrs, Bonney is as
complex as only a woman can be —shy and courage-
ous, daintily feminine and none the less an expert
mechanic.
The Queensland Girl Guides’ Ball was held in
Lennon’s. The Governor-General and Lady Isaacs,
Sir Leslie and Lady Wilson, Marjorie Wilson and
Dinah Hordern were there. Lady Isaacs wore black
macramS lace and rhinestones with ropes of rock
jade crystal; Lady Wilson was in pink satin and
crystal; the Macartney lady chose apricot satin;
Marjorie Wilson was in apple-green and Dinah
Hordern in pearl grey.
The Governor took his daughter and Dinah
Hordern to Ascot races on the final day. Navy
and white with magenta stripes was worn by
Marjorie Wilson; Miss Hordern was in a forest-
green coat over a black and white crepe de Chine
frock; the Blair lady had a black cloth coat furred
in black fox and ermine over a bronze-brown gown;
the Macartney lady chose black with silver-tipped
furs; Mrs. Jack Chandler wore blue with a scarlet
jumper; Mrs. E. J. Watt (Sydney) wore
navy with black furs; Carlie Yaldwyn’s black
and white was worn with a squirrel coat; Mrs.
D. G. Thursby (Gayndah) was in navy; Mrs. A. E.
Mort (Leura) wore pencil-striped black with stone
marten furs; and green was chosen by Mrs. Saunders,
who, with Captain Saunders, has just arrived from
England.
The Bachelors’ Ball was held in the South Brisbane
Tech., decorated with almond and cherry bloom.
Lady Game, in heavy gold lace, was present with
her son Philip ; Mrs. Maesmore Morris wore green;
magnolia satin garbed Ella O’Shea; Dorothy Haw-
thorn wore brocade green and silver lame; Marjorie
Wilson was in cameo pink, and Dinah Hordern in
red. There had been a dinner that night at Govern-
ment House, where the principal guests were the
Governor-General and Lady Isaacs, Lady Game, the
O.J. and his consort, the Premier and Mrs. Forgan
Smith, and ex-Priminister Scullin and Mrs. Scullin.
Rosy bougainvillaea and giant maidenhair decorated
the Mayoress’s reception-room for a party to Marjorie
Wilson. The hostess wore burgundy and point lace
with a Breton sailor hat. The guest of honor was
in black and white.
Dashing Mollie Tynan, daughter of the A. M*
Tynans, Ascot, announces her betlirothal to Di •
Daniel Quinlan, of Perth, son of the late Mr. T. F.
Quinlan, a one-time Speaker of the W.A. Assembly.
A Tambourine Mountain wedding was that of R h ."
Williams and Violet Curtis. Cyril Curtis gave his
sister away in bridal satin and tulle veil; Margery
Williams ’maided in old gold satin; little Mane
and Ailsa Curtis were flowergirls in period frocks
of pale blue taffetas. The feasting was at the
home of Mrs. Franklyn.
General View of The Macleod Gallery.
Visit the Australian Art Exhibition, the Macleod Gallery, Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street, Sydney. Selected works by all the best-known
Australian Artists for sale.


This Amazing
Remedy Restores
Health and Vitality
without Effort
The modern foods we eat, the stress
of post-war life and the strain of pre-
sent-day business combine to produce
self-poisoning ( Autoxima ), the result
of hidden and unsuspected constipation
from which nine out of ten suffer. Par-
ticles of food waste not properly evacu-
ated become encrusted in the intestine,
much as a water pipe becomes coated
with rust. This waste decays and fer-
ments, harboring disease - breeding
germs and poisons. These are absorbed
into the system, thus polluting the
blood stream, undermining your health,
sapping your vitality, and bringing on
all manner of aches and pains.
Before the health and vigor of youth
can be regained, this waste matter must
be flushed right out of the system. The
safe, simple way to do this is to drink
COLOSEPTIC. It completely loosens
off, dissolves and washes out the de-
caying waste, and rids the body of all
poisonous waste and blood impurities
through Nature’s four great outlets
the colon or large intestine, the kid-
neys, the pores of the skin, and the
respiratory organs.
Poor health is a tremendous handi-
cap in business, professional and social
life. If you are a victim to various
aches, pains and ailments, you cannot
be judged at your best —you cannot
reach your full measure of success. Are
you suffering from constipation, head-
aches, weakness, indigestion, gas in the
stomach and bowels, catarrh, backache,
rheumatism, neuritis, eczema, pimples?
Drink COLOSEPTIC in hot water evety
morning. Personally prove how it
promptly surmounts your particular
health difficulty—how it restores radi-
ant health —■ how it renews the 1 old
youthful energy and vigor. You. can
get COLOSEPTIC in regular full-size
jars from all chemists. Send I/-
stamws or postal note to COLOSEPTIC
CO-,'LTD., Dept. K 4. 24 Jamie*
son Street, Sydney, for Special Demon-
stration Jar of COLOSEPTIC and the
iaatmQtive book “Autoxima,”
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
Tlie attendance at Flemington on Satur-
day seemed not so good as usual, though
the weather was delightful. It was a joy
to be able to dispense with top-coats, but
the women who came out in the new light-
weight spring suits found the air chilly.
The new straw, hats were to be seen every-
where. Mrs. Richard Linton and her sister,
Mrs. Murray Heffernan, wore tailored en-
sembles of beige tonings, topped with furs.
Mrs. Clive Leonard chose a suit in the same
tones, with matching millinery. Mrs. Alan
Currie, who was accompanied by Miss Mil-
dred Parker, had pointed fox furs with her
black suit and. black hat. General Chauvel
was there with his lady, Mrs. Eric Harrison
sported a bottle-green ensemble with a like
felt hat. The Lud Mayor was there with
a party of friends.
The dozen lads of the Young American
League who are visiting Melbourne were given
a hop by the Y.A.L. at Leonard’s cafe, St.
Kilda. A bevy of girls with Mary Sharp as
lion. sec. stage-managed the jollo, and as
badge of office sported blossoms of purple and
gold, the visitors' colors. The ballroom was
titivated with panels featuring aboriginal
and nature studies painted by Sam Atyeo,
Moya Dyring, Joan Burbury and Peter Dale.
Each of the visitors received a cigarette-
box 0 f polished blackwood ornamented with
a silver boomerang.
St. Vincent’s Juveniles gave a dance at
the Embassy t 9 help the hospital. Monica
Starke and Celia Hobbs were the hon. secs.,
and Cassi Fanning, whose Parma violet
chiffon frock emerged from beneath an ivory
velvet coat, deputised for the president. Miss
Starke wore a frock of flowered pique in
sunset-pink hue. A vivid blue georgette
gown was sported by Miss Hobbs, and Isobel
Crosbie, hon. treas., had touches of silver
on her powder-blue georgette. Betty Fogarty
looked attractive in blue lace, and her cousin
Betty Moore danced in lace of berry-red hue.
Office-bearers of the feminine charitable
organisations of St. Kilda were entertained
at a party given by Councillor J. B. Levi,
who had his eldest daughter lima to aid him
in his duties as host. Her gown of chiffon
velvet was topped with white satin. Beryl
and Greta Levi were also in the gathering,
which included Mayoress Moroney of St.'
Kilda, in black lace, and some municipal and
political folk. The rendezvous was Leonard’s
cafe Music was made by pianist Linda
1 hillips, singers Kathleen Carroll and Jean
Lewis and violinist Celia Kilduff. Margaret
Kerr gave monologues.
Mr. and Mrs. R. J. Boyne, of Camberwell,
gave a coming-out dance at the Grosvenor
tor their grand-daughter Margaret, daughter
or the G. Ampts of Canterbury. The recep-
tion rooms were decked with pink peach-
blossom and glowing fires mitigated the
rigors of a bitter winter night. Guests were
greeted by the host, Mrs. Boyne, in black
lace with a touch of green, Mr. Ampt, Mrs.
Ampt (in boronia-pink georgette) and the
deb., whose white taffeta was sprigged in
pink.
i Atthe knot-tying of Bril, daughter of the
late Neville Howse and the Howse lady of
Kensington, and Raynes, eldest son of the
Kaynes Dicksons of Toorak, at St. John’s,
Toorak the bride wore a simple long-sleeved
fr w °t. f angel-skin, topped by a small
white hat. There were no maids.
When Roma daughter of the Conran
vv ylys, of Brighton, wedded Thomas, only
s-on of the late Capt. T. J. Liley, and of Mrs!
G. Alowlmg, Cliveden Mansions, at St
Andrew s, Brighton, her trio of maids wore
pale pink satin gowns with little capes, caps
and muffs of leaf-green velvet. The bride
trailed a creamy-tinted satin robe, and her
lengthy tulle veil was anchored to a coronet
ot orange-blossoms. There were rejoicings
afterwards at the Lyceum Club in a setting
of pm k-and-white blossoms.
At a mannequin show at Myer’s for the
Mayors bund. Lady Chaytor described the
women s wear—and wove a few stories into
her account. Beginning with knitted suits
and sports wear the programme ran the whol»
gamut of day and evening frocks and included
bathing-suits and beach-pyjamas. There was
an. ‘Empire finale,” in which all the manned
quins wore dresses blending red, white and
baie, and featuring the silver stars of Aus-
tralia. E rocks were shown with folds
the widest or the tiniest of tucks and
frills graded from the mere ruffle to the
deepest of flounces Most gowns were guilt-
less of gathers and others were studies in
shirring—rows and rows of gathers. Sleeves
were puffed at top or at elbow or not at all
There was no limit to trimmings—buttons
?. f ., all and kinds, chiefly metal cire
eoft satin, rag flowers,’glass
and leather blossoms, lace, even feathers A
good impression was made by the material
known as linen tweed, not easily distinguish-
able from our old friend coarse linen The
coats and skirt suits of this, in a putty tone
were very smart. It was novel to see linens
and piques utilised for evening gowns, Sion
der mannequins were poured into princess
robes of piqu6, the only adornment being a
wreath of petals of the material around th?
low corsage. A biscuit-colored gown was
made quite pastoral with a thick lei of
poppies, cornflowers and primroses A
number of organdie dresses were shown" and
tookS^doSle" 0 " 1 by jMsi “ Har “ llrt
A proud and happy member of the audi-
Marnsoii Owen’s “Dr. Pygmalion”
at the Kings on Saturday night was tlie
author’s mother. The staging of the play is
alluring. Mrs. Ilaydon’s bedroom is all
paie green—the walls panelled, with brown-
shaded dolphins sporting thereon. The fur
mture is cubist. The reception-room of the
flat is golden and the futuristic furniture is
upholstered in bois de rose that blends m
with the gilded interior, picked out in rose
and black. Dr. Pygmalion’s consulting-room
is all in vivid blue, with allegorical figures
in silver, draperies of silver lame, and black
furpiture. Margaret Rawlings looks fetch-
ing in a trained gown of ivory angel-skin
lace, In another scene she wears a simple
frock of ice-white flamisol, a new material,
topped by a lime-green coat of the same
silken fabric embroidered in gold, with
a straw hat. A black evening gown of
chiffon and tulle appliqu6d in wine-color
and gold is another confection worn by the
leading lady. Nancy O’Neill airs a backless
gown of scarlet satin, and some attractive
clothes are allotted to Kathleen Goodall, Noel
Boyd and Mary Cobb.
Nora Cazabon, of Sydney, designed the
scenery. In the first-night audience were
Mrs. O. Lempriere and daughter Margot,
the Percy Blackbourns, Mr. and Mrs. Fred
Bishop and Mrs. Dale, the William Sey-
mours and Mrs. Hudson Eastwood.
A. A. Milne’s “Make-Believe” was per-
formed at the Playhouse, by a cast chiefly of
boys and girls, some very young. Staging
and dressing were excellent and ballets were
danced by pupils of Jennie Brenan and
Maggie Mossop.
The hatpin is back in favor again. At
one of last week’s clothes-parades a hat
sported two gilded knobbed samples, so that
the headpiece would stay tilted at an angle.
The engagement has been announced of
mezzo-contralto Bruna Castagna and tenor
Carlo Alfieri, of the Firm’s opera co.
The employees of Swallow and Ariell, who
style themselves the Busy Bees, ran a bridge
and solo-whist party in the banquet hall of
the Victoria to aid the Alfred Hospital, and
the financial result was good.
As you might guess from the well-cared-
for look of the place, from its imposing clock
tower to' its glowing green lawns, a deal of
welfare work goes on in Bryant and May’s
factory down at Richmond. It might be
divided into three parts: (1) What the co.
does for its employees, (2) what the em-
ployees do for one another and (3) what all
hands do for the poor and needy. There’s
a matron in the establishment. Matron
sounds at least middlc-ageish and a trifle
sergeant-majorly; actually this one, though
a war veteran with a distinguished record,
is still youngish and attractive, and is the
mainspring of most of the good social work
done under the Brymay tower. The special
outside interest of the girls is the Homoeo-
pathic Hospital Auxiliary, which keeps up
a constant flow of linen and curtains and
comforts, with an occasional bale of blan-
kets and a bundle of crutches, and a few
pounds for some special cheer. Always the
patients are asking to see some of the good
fairies, and now and then a party turns up
with the Brymay choir and —at the last
visit—bags of lavender. And sometimes
those who look on wonder who get the most
good out of it—those who give or those who
receive.
The C.W.A. will have to hunt round for
another secretary, Thelma Barlow, who suc-
ceeded Mrs. Murray Waller, having resigned
to take another position. Miss Barlow was
secretary of the New Settlers’ League for
several years.
Some of these burglars have no heart at
all. At South Yarra a family’s weekly wash
was taken from the tubs when in steep. A
few days afterwards the laundry copper fol-
lowed the washing.
Hon. sec. of
a recent
fashion parade
for charity at
Menzies’ was
Mrs. Clarence
Weber, pic-
tured here by
Stuart Tomp-
kins. The lady
also described
the exhibited
clothes and
millinery. Mi’s.
Weber is
carrying on
the physical
culture school
established by
her late hus-
band, a great
wrestler in his
day and a man
of splendid
physique.
As an added attraction to the mannequin
show at Menzies’, Cesarina Valobra sang.
Dresses for sports and everyday wear were
rather shorter than those of last season,
while afternoon and evening gowns were
quite long —the evening frocks swept the
ground all round. Hats were charming,
masses of flowers trimming those of toque-
like formation. Among the mannequins was
I-lersey Brookes. Barbara Lyon played the
role of a bride in ivory velvet and tulle,
Prudence Staughton being her attendant
maid in a robe of water-lily green banded
with gold lame. Lynette Dickenson, Allison
Fitchett, Elizabeth and Anne Stawell and
Barbara Syme were others who showed off
the latest glad rags.
On Saturday night the fashion parade at
Menzies’ was repeated. An impromptu
dance wound up the entertainment, and
Albino Marone sang. In the crowd were
Mrs. Norman Brookes, who organised the
affair on behalf of the Queen Victoria Hos-
pital, the Lud Mayor, Mrs. H. Emmerton,
the Alec Sargoods, Mrs. James Purves, in
black lace, and her daughter Valerie, in
pink velvet, Molly Neil, whose bud-green
frock had a narrow sash of wine-tinted
velvet, and Mrs. C. Osborne, in a gown of
cosmos-mauve georgette.
The late Miss Mary McCoy left £40,000
to enable the Presbyterian Church, of which
she and her brother Alexander, who pre-
deceased her, were devoted members, to place
ordained ministers, instead of home mission-
aries, in small country districts. She named
for special consideration Swift’s Creek,
where she used to live, and Omeo, which is
just beyond it.
The Castlemaine Art Gallery has secured
the portrait of Edna Thomas, by John Long-
staff, the purchase price coming from a be-
quest left by the late F. McKillop, editor
of the Castlemaine “Mail.” The lady from
Virginia is shown in an early-Victorian
gown of tomato shade, with a black lace
shawl. Those who listened to the warbler
during her season at the Athenaeum some
years ago will remember that she aired some
very charming glad rags of crinoline mode.
A Flinders-street emporium is displaying
among new spring millinery some rather
arresting models in shiny black straw. They
are of sailor shape, very small, flat of crown
with but little bx’im, following a fashion of
many years ago, when the chignon was the
correct thing. The hats are mostly tied
round the middle with a narrow band of
black ribbon, but an intriguing sample had
two patent-leather daisies, white and blue,
marking the centre-front.
Knitted costumes now on sale are follow-
ing the two-color scheme seen in so many
winter frocks and evening gowns, the deep
yoke and sleeves being of a different shade
from the rest of the garment. Two shades of
one hue are also popular, and black is used
with blues, reds, greens or greys; the accom-
panying millinery may be one color or the
other.
At St. Mark’s Parish Hall, Fitzroy, 240
kiddies belonging to unemployed families are
given a hot midday dinner daily. The Rev.
G. Nichols, Vicar of St. Mark’s, is behind
the movement, and is abetted by his wife,
whose idea it is, and who oversees the
commissariat. The vicar does most of the
marketing and has made himself responsible
for the collecting of funds to carry on. He
welcomes the smallest donation. So far
gifts in kind have been so generous that
cost of catering is reduced to about
twopence a head. The only paid person is
the cook. Eight members of the Ladies’ Guild
are there from 9 till 4, to assist her, and
over 20 more voluntary workers setrve the
multitude. It is the second year of this
activity, which began with 67 beneficiaries.
Mr. Nichols has extended his interest to
children at schools in Collingwood, and at
St. Phillip’s Parish Hall a similar body of
women is carrying; on; to date 140 little
Australians are being kept from hunger by
five substantial meals a week.
Artist Athol Matson Nicholas, though a
Victorian, has spent much of his time abroad.
Since his return five years ago he has been
occupied with
commissions in
other States,
including the
interior deco-
ration of cine-
ma theatres,
and has only
just settled
down in a Mel-
bourne studio,
which was
informally
opened last
week. He was a
student at the
Slade School
in Londo n.
He and four
brothers served
in the Great
War; two were
killed. Painting
runs ih the
family; liis grandfather was one of the
little company of artists who gathered
round Ruskim Mr. Nicholas’s only sister,
who is a nun in the Convent of Notre Dame
de Sion, Paris, has a flair for illumination.
The picture is a sketch by Mr. Nicholas’s
sister-in-law, Mrs. Hilda Rix Nicholas that
was. She is now Mrs. Edgar Wright.
Hats are getting smaller and smaller. The
new spring models, shiny straw boaters and
Bre tonne sailors, are low of crown with only
an inch or so of brim. The softer crinoline
and cire makes of straw are twisted and
squashed to assume all sorts of fetching
shapes, but these are only for the very
young. Bows of ribbon, tiny posies and
sprays of flowers take up positions on or
under the hat.
William Cameron, formerly of the British-
Australasian Tobacco Co., has given £l5OO
for the erection of a memorial cross at
Mount Macedon, where he and his wife have
made their home. The cross is to be bathed
in floodlights by night, and if it is erected
on the summit of the mount the glow should
be visible from the city.
Hobart happenings:—
The Speck holds the bones of the author of the
world-famous song- “John Peel,” John Woodstock
Graves, who wrote the song before coming to these
shores with his family in 1833. The other night
E. J. McCann broadcast the time-honored hunting
ditty, sung by a male choir, from Graves’s old home
Caldew, West Hobart, and F. S. Shaw preceded the
item by a short sketch of the writer.
The annual shivoo of the Uni. students at the
Continental was a very gay affair. Mary Harbottle,
Norman Westbrook, J. Woods and R. Clive did
most of the organising. Youth was predominant and
the frocking very gay and attractive.
Floods of rain failed to damp the enthusiasm
at the opening of Tasmania’s Wembley Exhibition
at the City Hall, and the Lieut.-Gov., the Premier
and the Mayor all did a little speechifying. Over
50 trade exhibits were on view.
Enid Reid, a consistent little player in the Both-
well Golf Club, ran away with the countrywomen’s
championship at Kingston Beach. 0. C. Burbury
(Oatlands) came out on top in the men’s matches.
The Lyceum Club tea-ed Hilda Bridges, sister of
novelist Roy Bridges, and a good number of members
and guests enjoyed the tea and talk. Hilda and her
brother are rusticating in the Speck, near Sorell,
and are both taking advantage of uninterrupted
quiet to do some writing.
Snaps from S. Aus.:—
The Adelaide Hunt Club’s annual Point-to-Point
Steeplechase at Oakbank drew a good attendance.
It is always a picnic meeting and motorists dispense
hospitality in their cars. But the slush was so
awful that the women had all to be carried across
to the grandstand, and at the close of the afternoon
carried back again.
Mrs. R. L. Hosking, wife of Dr. Hosking, of
Rabaul, arrived from England by the Bendigo. She
has been on a holiday trip with her husband, who
is now in Vienna studying X-rays. Mrs. Hosking
is staying with her mother, Mrs. Bavly, at Glen
Osmond until December, when Dr. Hosking will
arrive to take her back to New Guinea.
Next month’s dance on board the Manunda at
Port Adelaide should be a good thing for Toe 11.
The Adelaide Steamship Co. gives the ship, the
supper and the band, Mrs. Dudley Hayward is pay-
ing for the programmes, and Captain Barr-Smith is
defraying the cost of the tickets.
Peggy Palmer, who recently returned to Adelaide
with her mother, after studying for several years
m Europe, gave her first recital (pianoforte) at
the Town Hall, when the floral tributes exceeded in
size and beauty any that have been showered upon
oversea stars. It was an excellent house and the
only regret was that the Governor’s recent illness
prevented the vice-regal party from being present.
Peggy is a charming and talented girl.
Dr. A. Grenfell Price and Mr. E. W. Gray were
given a farewell dinner by the students of St. Mark’s
College. Dr, Price and his wife leave shortly on
a trip to America, and our 1931 Rhodes Scholar is
bound for Oxford.
The refectory at the University was crowded when
the visiting Inter-’Varsity teams were guests at a
cheery dance in their honor. Professor A. L.
Campbell, and Dr. F. N. Le Messurier, with Dr.
D. O. Betts, received the guests. Supper was served
in the Lady Symon building.
Westralia writes:—
The Lieut.-Governor, after unlocking the doors of
Parliament, read a message from George Rex com-
memorating the Legislative Council’s centenary.
After the formal opening arrangements the Kirwan
knight entertained in his suite, gorgeous with the
pinks and purples of sweet-peas, where his sister-
in-law, Mrs. Geoffrey Mclntyre, dispensed tea. Miss
Northmore, in a nutmeg rig,, came with the Lieut.-
Governor. Mrs. Mclntyre was a symphony in pigeon-
grey. Among others present were the Mitchell lady,
who added a fur coat and a straw hat to her beige
satin; Mrs. T. A. L. Davy, whose smart black satin
displayed intricate white godets upon the sleeves,
and the petite Nathan lady, who topped her ensemble
with a bottle-green straw hat. Mrs. Draper perked
up her velvet millinery with a white feather; J.
J. Holmes brought his wife in the sheen of brown
velvet and his daughters; Mrs. Phil Collier wore
cornflower blue; the Wittenoom lady’s golden brown
displayed a flick of orange upon the headpiece ; and
the neckline of May Haman’s black frock was snug
with white fur.
A few years ago the Federal and State Govern-
ments found £5OOO apiece towards the centre for
the treatment of cancer. But science progresses
with giant strides and much of the plant is now
out of date. To procure and maintain modern
equipment the “Ray” contest has been launched. A
number of associations are nominating a maid or
matron as a “Ray” candidate and working on her
behalf. The Health Department dangles tempting
prizes for the “Rays” who collect most money.
The King Atkins couple got out bridge tables one
evening in honor of Colonel and Mrs. de Castilla,
visitors from South Africa who have not seen these
shores for 20 years. Golden flowers bloomed in
the dining-room and sweet-peas adorned the card
tables. The hostess made her introductions in black
mesh laces and Mrs. de Castilla was robed in sea-
green moire.
The Chandler Boys’ Farm Settlement scheme has
a banking account soaring well over the £2OOO mark.
Perth College Old Girls’ Dramatic Society has
promised the scheme its harvest from “The Lilies
of the Field,” v'hich will flower in the Assembly
Hall for a two-nights’ season.
Temple Court was full of gold braid and medals
for the Naval and Military Ball. The orchestra, too,
put its best foot forward with red uniforms. Supper
was a buffet affair and the balconies were hidden
under a patriotic display of flags. Captain Bertram,
the German aviator, was the evening’s lion. He
dances beautifully and his English becomes more
fluent daily. Among the dancers were Colonel Duck-
ley and his black satin-clad wife; Mrs. K. A. Hall,
whose black frock showed white bead traceries,
came with her captain ; Mrs. Robertson Smith wore
mignonette-green; Mrs. Hubert Parker’s choice was
corded ivory silk; Mrs. Courtney’s Venetian-red made
a gay spot of color; Mrs. Hunn danced in a whirl
of black laces; Olga Joseph’s white frock displayed
colored pattemings; Dorothy Solomon trailed wood-
nymph tonings; Jean Lang was in fuchsia; Vera
Saw danced in sheeny gold satin and Mrs. Wilfrid
Campion chose laces to match the tint of spring
grasses.


KIDNEY
—with all its
Chronic Pain
and Hidden
Hanger!
Kidney Trouble, Neglected,
Heans Breakdown!
If you are tired-out with pain, head-
ache, back almost breaking, nerves all
“jumpy;” if you sleep badly, are cross
and irritable; if you notice bad taste in
the mouth, sallow complexion, if you
fear dreadful kidney trouble, take this
honest advice.
«
That chrome pain that makes you a misery to yourself and all around you is
Nature frantically signalling the need for something to be done and done quickly
You complain of being tired and worn-out, constant dull aching in the region of the
kidneys, and yet you keep on doing nothing Perhaps a few more cups of dreadfully
strong tea or a few purging, digestion-weakening salts are taken. Can it be
wondered that breakdown will surely come in time ?
There is a remedy for this depressing, health-wrecking state of affairs, caused by
deep-seated kidney weakness. It is no secret, it has been known for over forty years
under the name De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. Tens of thousands of people
have tested this remedy and found it invaluable in all cases of Loss of Vitality,
Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica, Bladder Weakness and Kidney Trouble. Go to
your chemist now and secure a supply of this inexpensive yet wonderful remedy.
The 3/6 you spend will be the best investment you will ever make.
Read this Remarkable Letter
—it will help you
Here is just one of thousands of letters which show you how quickly, how surely
this remedy acts. Read it carefully—it will surely help you.
Mrs. M. Morton, writing from 27 Smith Street, Summer Hill, Sydney, says
•• It gives me much pleasure to write and tell you what relief I received
after taking less than one bottle of De Wittes Pills. I suffered untold
agonies for six months with terrible burning, bearing-down pains, caused
through kidney and bladder trouble. 1 read a good deal about De Witt s Pills,
and had been told by people they were splendid . At last I bought a large
bottle, with wonderful results, and since then 1 feel as if / had a new lease
of life. Now I feel in perfect health, and am able to continue with my
employment, which I certainly could hot have done had it not been for the
wonderful relief I received after taking your marvellous pills. I recommend
them to all I know, and will never be without them.’’
This is the evidence of not one but thousands who owe freedom from pain and a
return of health, vitality and strength to “De Witt’s.” Many who say life has been
one long misery of pain and suffering have banished that misery for good—thanks to
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
We are convinced that, with the genuine remedy, De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills, taken regularly, your suffering will quickly end. For 40 years De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills have proved invaluable for all forms of deep-seated
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Uric Acid and all the pain and weakness caused
by Kidney Trouble Because of their enormous popularity this remedy has been
imitated. For your own sake—that is if you wish to get back health quickly and
surely—see you get the genuine De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills in the white,
blue and gold box, sold by chemists everywhere, price 3/6, or larger, more
economical size, 6/6. These pills are never sold loose.
»e WITT’S
Kidney
and
Bladder
ďf
Bait.
BY VINCENT WRIGHT.
SOME wives never get used to the smell
of bait, which is one of the major trials
on the domestic side of the fisherman’s
life. Mrs. Sadie Gerson will tell, you that
only for her early squeamishness on this
point, that unfortunate affair with Red
Taylor would never have occurred.
Her husband, Alec Gerson, still seeks the
elusive trevally in the Sadie G Fishing
has made him what he is—a bronzed, deep-
chested man with a virile tang of the sea
about him. In a more romantic setting,
novelists, I suppose, would refer to him as
a blonde giant, but at the time 1 speak of
Sadie regarded him as a pest. It was no fun
being anyone’s wife in bad times, but being
married to a fisherman was over the odds.
In fairness to Sadie it must be admitted
that the life was trying. Let us peer into
the privacy of the Gerson home at the un-
godly hour of 3.30 on any winter morning.
It was a common thing to see Alec getting
into the garments that served him in the
boat, and rummaging in drawers for hooks
and lines and such-like tools of his calling,
while Sadie snuggled into the blankets after
a horrified glimpse at the outer world, un-
touched by pity for Gerson, who must face
that Siberian air.
With the disdain of her sex for the plain
issues of life, Sadie overlooked the fact that
fish brought in meat and drink, and kept a
roof over her head. She forgot these essen-
tial things to roam in a dream world —gayer
and better perfumed than the world of fish—
where there were plenty of silk stockings and
movies every night in the week. The bril-
liant figure of Red Taylor was always at
her side introducing her to these delights.
Gerson was forgotten in a netherland of
toil, where bait and scales were the obscene
facts of existence.
Granted, too, that Gerson’s obstinacy on
the subject of bait assisted the estrangement,
lie was a kind man, who meant well, but it
took a lot to convince him that bait should
not be kept indoors. He is not convinced to
tnis day.
“What’s wrong with the bait,” lie would
ask. “It’s good bait, isn’t it? Look at dcm.
I bought dese prawns fresh to-day.”
His objection to keeping the bait outside
was that the cats might-get it.
After several scenes Sadie got her way.
Gerson was hurt, but gave in, and the bait
was never kept in the dresser as it had been
in the halcyon days.
One morning, while Gerson was still out fish-
ing, Sadie entered the skating-rink managed
by Red Taylor. Of late she had been in the
habit of doing this. Taylor, a showy dresser,
had a way with women. Gerson was the
opposite—he was, I suppose, what would be
called a man’s man. .
Here one must allow for the resentment of
women when life is, tame and . money scarce.
Red always seemed to have plenty of money
—even the pearl in the centre of his ties
was a guarantee of opulence. In addition,
his features were pleasing, and women had
compared him with at least one film star —-
Jack Oakie, I think it was. .
“Morning, Sade,” was Red’s greeting. How
is my little ‘sugar’ to-day?”
“Not so good,” Sadie came back, but her
face brightened at his gallant words.
.< Alcc b stm iu the boa t?” He nodded
towards the sea, as if finding Gerson’s where-
abouts that vast space was a -simple matter,
“Been out since 3.30,” Sadie said. “I
haven’t slept a wink since.”
Taylor looked at her shrewdly. “It is a
tough life for a pretty girl like you. You
was meant for better things than that,
Sadie. You slave all day, and you are awpke
all night. What do you get out of it?” _
“Nothing,” Sadie assented dully. “What
am I to do? I must go on with it.”
“Must you?” Red Taylor gave her his
celebrated look. Few women, it is said,
could resist Red when he looked that way.
“My offer stands, Sade. I’ll give up the
rink whenever you say the word. Come with
me and I’ll see you live the life of a lady.”
Sadie thought it over, toyed with the de-
licious idea, revelled in mental glimpses of
the Paradise to which Red would take her.
That morning she was very fed-up, and her
endurance was at breaking-point,
“I would like to go,” she stammered ten-
dei’ly; “but, Red, it’s risky. If Alec caugh tus !
He is a cave-man when his temper is roused.”
“Bit that way myself,” Red countered —
every man likes women to think he is a.cave-
man. “Trust me, Sadie, to fix Alec if it comes
to a showdown. When I was at Manila 1
learnt jiu-jitsu, and I know how to -handle
six-footers,”
“I will go with you, Red, if you promise
to treat me right,” Sadie said resolutely. “We
will clear out when Alec leaves at 3.30.”
Red clasped her arm tenderly. “It s a
pact, Sade, We will make Darlinghurst the
first stage, Melbourne later.” Sadie was as
thrilled as if he had said Paris. "Gosh, I’ll
be busy to-day,” he added enthusiastically,
“First to the bank to get the bullion, and
then juice for the old ’bus.”
That day Sadie was quieter than usual,
The thought of the step she was taking awed
her; and one must assume. that, as a rule,
wives are not very buoyant in spirit, when on
the verge of deserting their husbands,
Poor Gerson could not account for her
mood. At first he thought it was because
he had not caught much fish, but she went
about scaling the haul with less rancor
than usual,
When she reminded him about getting the
bait for next day. he was deceived into
thinking she was taking interest in his enter-
prise. It filled him with simple joy to think
that at last she was putting her heart into
the work,
Later, Alec said. “See dem gulls.” He
pointed to a number of birds dipping in the
sky. “Dey have been hanging about all day,
and it’s a sign of de rain.”
“All right,” Sadie replied, relapsing into
silence. She did not like to trust herself on
the subject of bait; nevertheless, she boiled
as she breathed the pungent odor of prawns.
It gave her a poor opinion of fish to think
they were duped by such offerings.,
Night came at last, an overcast night with
a fresh wind.
We will not weary you with details of
the Gerson home that evening—how both
retired early; how Gerson snored and the
alarm-clock chanted in strident harmony
until 3 a.m. Nor is this a record of Sadie’s
feelings as she lay in bed watching her hus-
band getting ready to leave. No doubt she
cursed the good man for his slowness, and
his reluctance to leave the warm room.
When he was gone she tumbled out to
keep her tryst. Her resolve to leave was
strengthened by the robust odor of bait per-
vadiiig the house. You couldn’t escape it.
Any wife would have been indignant. Evi-
dently Alec had forgotten to leave the prawns
outside, but she was in no mood to argue
just then.
The next development was the arrival of
Red in his car. Mr. Taylor was slightly
peevish, as he had left his overcoat some-
where and got wet. It was now raining
heavily, • and the air was cold enough to
damp the ardor of a Casanova. Elopements
should be carried out before midnight, and
in warm weather.
They paused at the door, hoping the rain
would abate, until Sadie, becoming im-
patient, handed an overcoat to her companion,
“It is Alec’s. At least it will keep you
warm and dry. If we don’t go he will find
us. As it is raining I don’t think he will take
the boat out.”
Red accepted the garment gratefully, and
tliev raced for the car, which was small, had
a dilapidated hood, and generally did not
seem the proper conveyance for an elopement,
Now motor-cars are as trying as human
beings, and when a black mood is upon them
you might as profitably argue with a mule.
It happened at this vital moment that the
engine was cold, and all the juice Red in-
jected failed to restore the circulation. Red
did violent things to the self-starter and the
accelerator, but the car would not respond.
He swore a lot. That was no.good. He was
still tussling with the perverse thing when
Alec Gerson’s bulky form loomed along the
roa( ]
In such a crisis you must act swiftly, and
you invariably do. the wrong thing. A chance
was at hand for Mr. Taylor to exhibit his
skill at jiu-jitsu, but he was obviously loth
to take it. Alec, unprepared for sensations,
was astonished.to see someone resembling his
wife scuttle into the sandhills with a man.
Giants do not. think quickly because, as
a rule, they are not made that way. Gerson
had to enter his home and read an unre-
pentent note from Sadie before he summed
nil the situation
1 There was murder in Alec’s breast as he
looked for his overcoat before giving chase,
Ilis. feelings when he found that Red had
purloined-both overcoat and wife are better
left to the imagination.
When he reachedthe sandhills the run-
a ways were out of sight. The, rain had
almost ceased, and a strong wind was blow-
ing from the direction of the rocks at the
south-end of the beach, where the caves
were. At first Gerson was baffled, but pro-
seiitly - a familiar sign -was conveyed to him
bv the wind. He smiled and made towards
the .caves.
We must return to; Sadie, and Taylor. As
they ran into the gale they had no plan.
As to hide was the only course offering, they
made for the rocks, and were cowering in
a. cave, when Gerson emerged from the house.
It was a dank place, but fairly long.
Taylor struck a match. Their shelter did not
look inviting. The sea moaned outside, the
air was very cold. The miserable pair but-
toned their overcoats tighter about them.
This, Sadie thought, was worse than mar-
riage. Red was good company on the skating-
rink, but he lacked pep in a cave, with an
angry husband in the vicinity.
Presently sue detected a stale odor, an
odor vaguely familiar, and very unpleasant.
It seemed like bait, so much like bait she
fancied that her senses were deceiving her.
Taylor struck a match to locate the cause o'
the aroma, but nothing could bo seen.
“You have bait on the brain,” Red said
pettishly. Already the veneer of the skating-
rink was peeling off. “What’s an odor in our
position V If I go on striking matches that
devil will find us.”
“But it’s awful. It is bait, I tell you.'
Sadie cried.
Bait or not they had to sit in the dark,
shivering and frightened. It was no fun to
Sadie, who had counted on being in a flat at
King’s Cross that morning. She would
have preferred the bait at home to the bait
in the cave. As for Mr. Taylor, he wasn’t
the same man at all.
By this time the odor of bait was over-
powering. Even Red found fault with it, and
his nose was not so sensitive as Sadie’s.
Then they heard Gerson scrambling around
the rocks, getting closer to them.
“I can’t stand it,” Sadie cried. “I will
have to get out.”
Red clamped his hand over her mouth.
“Shut up, you little fool ; you. will give the
show away in a minute.”
Sadie nearly fainted. She wrenched the
hand away as if it had been a leper’s.
“It’s on you. Where have you had your
hand?”
“In the overcoat pocket.”
“Is there a parcel in it?”
A terrible suspicion smote Sadie. At her
direction. Taylor produced the parcel. To
put it vulgarly, the odor of bait nearly ston-
kered them. Distractedly. Sadie punched
Red’s hand, and the prawns tumbled out of
the parcel.
A more subtle, means of torture was never
devised by the Inquisition. Indifferent to the
anger of a dozen husbands, Sadie rushed to
the.entrance of the cave.
At that moment the” heard a grunt of
satisfaction. Gerson loomed outside.
* * # *
'That was eighteen months ago. Red
Taylor is out of hospital now, but where lie
has gone Heaven alone knows. Far from the
Gersons —we can be certain of that.
Sadie does not care where he is. She and
Alec get on much better these days. Go to
Gerson’s fish shop if you want proof of this,
and watch the vivacious little woman wrap-
ping up the fish caught by her husband in
the Sadie G. • ’
Yes—she sells bait. To plague the homos
of other fishermen’s wives, I suppose.


The HUMAN SIDE
OF BUSINESS
The creation of business calls into activity many human, qualities. This is necessarily so because
there are always two people in every transaction, the buyer and the seller, and the relationship
between these two is often just as important as the article or service which passes from one to the
other. The first impression, the approach to each other of the parties concerned, the general
conduct before, after and during the transaction, have a direct bearing not only on the individual
transaction, but also on all future dealings.
Messrs. Hemingway and Robertson, under their Personal Individual Tuition Method, offer four
special courses to those engaged in the important work of selling and distributing goods and
service. They are practical and modern, they kept thoroughly up to date, and they are of
inestimable service to those who are already engaged or desire to be engaged in that side of
business which brings us into direct contact with humanity.
EFFECTIVE ENGLISH AND
PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT
Good English, either written or spoken, is a
personal ‘fttribute which can be acquired. It is a
valuable accomplishment? making possible two
qualities most useful in all our dealings with others
—Clearness and Tactfulness.
/ Effective expression is a decided asset. It aids
the Executive, Salesman, Advertiser, the Corres-
pondent, the Lady Secretary, and is a necessary
attribute to those in responsible positions. There
are few leaders who cannot express themselves
well. If you want to be a leader, the H. & R.
Effective English and Personal Development Course
will help you, quickly, and pleasantly, to one of the
essential qualifications, an understanding of the
proper use of our mother tongue.
SALESMANSHIP
Future business will be definitely an age for
intensive sales activity. The H. & R. Salesmanship
Course covers all the ground, and is based on
soundest English and Australian practice. It is
offered as a positive means by which ambitious
men can rise to greater success. This practical
Course covers such essentials as the actual contact
with the customer, building and holding goodwill,
the organisation of sales territory, and the elements
of sales management. The Course definitely pro-
vides a plan to help salesmen, managers and
merchandising executives,
BUSINESS
CORRESPONDENCE
A most important factor in all our business
relationships is Effective Letter-writing. Through it
custom is influenced, accounts collected, goods
sold, complaints adjusted, and commercial goodwill
strengthened.
Mail publicity is now effectively used to create
and retain business or to establish new processes or
ideals. In fact, many great establishments conduct
business entirely by mail order.
The ability to write a good letter embodying
the use of the English language in a simple
accurate and graceful manner, and so expressed as
to create a favorable impression and secure the
desired result, is one of the most important and
essential accomplishments which anyone in busi-
ness can possess.
ADVERTISING
The H. & R. Advertising Course is practical.
The principles of advertising and its practice are
made clear in concise language and by numerous
illustrations, whilst its classification and arrange-
ment make study and reference extremely easy.
The sections given over to the theory of advertising
expose the pitfalls into which the most experienced
business man, unless warned, may fall, whilst
those on the practice of advertising deal adequately
with technique and management. Let us send you
particulars.
GET THIS BOOK POST FREE
“PRESTIGE & PROFIT”
The four Courses so briefly outlined in this
announcement are described fully in a handbook,
"Prestige & Profit,” a copy of which will be posted
free to those interested. Just complete the form
below, stating the subject or subjects in which you
are specially interested.
: .v:
a/?, *'/
, * '
\ vmm m m s
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
The Accountancy—Secretarial Specialists
HEAD OFFICES: 38 BARRACK HOUSE. 16 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
38 BANK HOUSE, BANK PLACE, MELBOURNE, C.X.
Offices at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Newcastle, Perth, Adelaide, Hobart, Launceston
| DETACH AND POST j
| To HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON at I
(Just ada capital city t.ame) . j
| I would like to have complete information about your training in , 1
* Name
I
J Business Address.
'NI NO IX in
xsnvioxj
Accountancy
hecretaryshio
Cost Acc untancy
Banking and
Securities
Banners’ Exams
Insurance
Municipal Exams
Scientific Marketing
and Merchandising
Advertising
Salesmanship
Commercial
Bookt- eeping
Farm and station
Bookkeeping
Effective Inglish
and Personal
Development
Correspondence
Handwriting
Arithmetic
Business Shorthand
All Business Subjects
ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE
Training tor Executives
A
CHALLENGE
TO 100 MEN WHO ARE
DISSATISFIED WITH
THEIR INCOMES
MANY people seem to think that just
because men give credit to the
Alexander Hamilton Institute for increas-
ing their incomes the Institute can increase
anybody's income.
It may seem strange, but this consti-
tutes a real problem' to us.
These' people still have the notion that
mailing a coupon and reading a free book-
let is going to turn them into successes.
They don’t really believe this, but in a
vague sort of way they hope it.
We have nothing for men who are
depending on hope. There is no formula
for becoming financially independent. It
is a sober fact that the Institute has helped
some thousands of keen adult people to
double and triple their earning power, but
only because they had it in them to earn
more. .
WHAT SUCCESS COSTS
IN 1932-33
To separate -from the others those men
who really want to do something about
forging ahead financially, we print this
unusual challenge.
IF -—like many people in this lean year of
1932 —you have been shaken out of your
complacency and seriously want to investi-
gate the quickest road to financial inde-
pendence, we will match our time against
yours. Provided you live within a reason-
able distance of one of our offices, we will
send a member of our staff, without obliga-
tion, to talk with you.
He is an informed and intelligent man.
You will be under no obligation to do any-
thing but listen to the cold facts about
Institute service. He will tell you what it
costs and what it pays. He will tell you
how much time it takes and how much time
it saves. He will tell you a few of the men
who have subscribed, and how you can
apply Institute help to your own work in
your own business. He will tell you what
the Institute can and cannot do in guiding
your investments. And he will not gloss
over the fact that we can do nothing for
vou unless vou are willing to do some
WORK.
The whole interview will last about thirty
minutes—that’s about the time it takes
to tell of the Institute’s work in outline.
At the end of that time he will bid you
good-bye, and .you can do something about
it or not, as you please.
There's our challenge. Do you want to
hear the story? If you do. our challenge
has been successful. If not, it has been
successful, too, for we shall have saved your
time and ours.
The coupon below is for those who want
to be financially independent enough to
stake 30 minutes of their time. We esti-
mate that only about 100 men will answer
this advertisement. But they will be picked
men. If you want to join them, welcome!
SPECIAL INFORMATION
FORM—MAIL TO-DAY
DETACH AND POST
To The ALEXANDER HAMILTON
INSTITUTE,
(Division Hemingway . and Robertson Pty., Lid.)
38. Barrack House, 16 Barrack St., Sydney;
38 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne, C.l.
I want to take advantage of this special
opportunity to get the facts about Institute
Service. I am not to be obligated, hoieever,
in any -way.
Name
Business Address
Business Position
38/11
Thousands Subscribe to Australia's Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1380 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin ’
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from .
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/«
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/*
Jb
(V
» e ®
*\V >3* ...
A' e V • •
i»<>
0<
-e 2 1 '
>f' £ U‘» 6 ..
sr
„<■ V^o,6»
# 4 ‘
i>V \v
> v n<


QUICK STARTS!
mjo faviupun-
The barrier is sprung!
A split second of uncer-
tainty! Then a thunder
of hoofs. The favorite
is out ahead... a quicker
start... instant response
...tremendous power...
and he’s away...ahead
of the pack. That’s the
Willard story, t 00...
tremendous power...
instantly. A quicker
start... depends bility.
11
■ ■ ■
■
• .
mmm
m
*
I-:.
■
m
Wk
■III
.1
::
m
A
H'
' .
i
Il'l
A m
01
I
I
m
m
B
IP
W'
Wml
U & x> I "s#*
' Sli
Satisfaction... because your motor starts... on the
instant. Ignition perfect. Lights... bright and
steady. Thetfe you have a Willard Battery. The
best, we believe, yet the most economical, because
it is the best... the result of 29 years of exclusive
battery budlding... and a friendly nation-wide
service back of it.
For your Car , Willard gives
you a< choice of several types at
a wide range in price , includ-
ing types with Thread-Rubber
Insulat 10 n, a W i liar d
development .
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
■
BATTERIES
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Motor Supplies, Limited,
Brisbane.
Westcott Hazell & Co., Limited,
Sydney.
Brooklands Accessories Pty., Limited,
Melbourne.
Automobile Electric Service, Limited,
Adelaide.
Atkins (W.A.), Limited*
Perth.,
